a be as in for its to a are ~rs\ ~ on ect. ; onl tine and .ook [act ege .ely ved tter are not the ¥ill 'me ~ge md l to md nic ltly ed. the oes the y's the the ~m at- un- the :es ' CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1985 Page7 UNION Scho ffer Library . . . Undergrad Asset? By KATHY KEAVENEY . There are few who would disagree with the statement that an undergraduate college depends heavily on the resources of its library. There is little doubt that Union College is an excellent undergraduate coll·ege. There are those, however, who seriously question the excellence of Schaffer Library. Does Schaffer Library live up to the standards of Union College as a wHole? Is it well equipped to serve the neecls of 2,000 students and over 150 faculty? Schaffer Library director Ann Seemann feels strongly that the answer to both of these questions is an emphatic YES! She feels that Schaffer Library is an excellent undergraduate library and can be a terrific resource for Union students. In her experiences as a student at Oberlin College, as a librarian at Cornell University, and in her travels to visit other un- dergraduate libraries, Ms. Seemann feels that Schaffer Library compares very favorably. She is quick to point out, however, Schaffer Library is not and cannot be a major research library. Ms.Seemann explains that the library is simply not big enough and does not have the funding to be a major research library. Instead, she says 1 Schaffer Library attempts to support the undergraduate. One very ef- fective way for an un- dergraduate library to do this is to maintain a very good reference and bibliographic collection. Ms. Seemann feels that Schaffer Library does this very well. She believes that, \we have many bibliographies and referen.ce books that an ordinary undergraduate library would not have.\ The purpose of this collection is to help students determine what books are available and where they can be found. Ms. Seemann .feels strongly that any book or resource which cannot be found at Schaffer Library can be found, most likely in the Capital District. Within the next several years, the number of volumes in Schaffer Library will approach one half million. Thi~? is . an impreasive accomplishment for a small undergraduate library. When buying books, a major focus of the librarians at Schaffer is to obtain all stan- dard works of all major authors. For example, when one .of the major university presses annmmces thaHhey will publish the complete works of a major author, Schaffer Library will automatically put in a standing order for it. In acldition to this procedure, book ordering at Schaffer Library has always been a cooperative effort. Union faculty take an active role in ordering books in their subjects and fields. Ms. Seemann states that Union faculty orders ap- proximately 75 percent of all non-reference books. Ms. Seemann does feel that there is room for improvement at Schaffer Library. Par- ticularly, she feels that there could be improvements in the budget for periodicals. A current improvement in the periodical collection which will take place this summer is the installation of compact shelving. Ms. Seemann says that the library has been forced to turn to this type of shelving to reduce a crowding problem. She also commented that this type of shelving is used commonly in commonly in college libraries and cited schools such as St. Rose, Bowdoin, and St. Lawrence. MS. Seemann also feels that Schaffer Library could benefit from some physical renovations. While she feels that it is a beautiful building on the outside, she feels strongly that some creative renovation should be done on the inside. In addition, the also feels that some new carpeting and general sprucing up are needed. In closing, Ms. Seemann stated that, YES, Schaffer Library does live up to Union's standards of excellence. She also said that she hopes that students and faculty alike will show excellent, flexible at- titudes as they adjust to com- pact shelving in the bill. FEATURES Dr. Johns. Morris, President of Union, seeks to enhance the College's streng.ths and make Union better than it already is. Seeking Excellence By DAVID FITZGERALD and BETSY TREITHER Features Editors Excellence at Union is the current concentration ·for the administration. The Campaign for Union, a drive to double the endowment and set the college on sound financial footing, appears to be the first suc- cessful step towards bettering the quality of Union. President Morris explained that prospects of improvements are con- tingent on such security because of today's problem of demographics evident in declining numbers of college age · youths and declining enrollment, . the economic climate particularly in the northeast and the increasing cost of Union. The Campaign has enabled the administration to inspect Union's curriculum and faculty in attempts to pinpoint strengths and weaknesses and ultimately to implement cpanges. Morris notes that education depends on a student body of academically strong, motivated and interested in- dividuals who must be set in an environment which offers en- couragement as well as facility. More importantly, Morris stressed the positive im- plications of a low student- faculty ratio and strong student- faculty relationships. Presently the student-faculty ratio is 13: 1 and the teaching load for each faculty member is seven courses per year. It is felt that by reducing the number of courses that each professor teaches, the amount of time for personal contacts between faculty members and students and schOlarly research will increase. There will be no written requirements for in- creased office hours or in- creased hours invested in research. The number of faculty members will increase over the next four years so that the number of course offerings will not be reduced. A greater number of faculty will also help to add to the breadth and variety of course offerings. The campaign will also facilitate improvement of the quality of life. The renovation of the Arts Building, the Alumhi Gym, and the transformation of the student center. The college center will be a common gathering area for students and faculty. Union is intended to be a residential college, this is best exemplified by the closeness in physical layout of the library and the sport facilities. The theme of excellence at Union seems to be rooted in President Morris' philosophy of education. Liberal Arts · ac- cording to Morris \is the cor- nerstone of undergraduate education.\ He sees the ex- posure to the humanities, social and natural sciences, and technology as the primary strength of Union's education which has not thus far and should never be lost sight of. Morris emphasizes the im- portance of \a full spectrum of ways of looking at and un- derstanding the world\ before moving on to a profession. Union is well known for its strong programs in the scien- ces, engineering and political science. In light of this, President Morris reflected on the arts and the humanities. He sees some strengths in the in- dividual departments of the Humanities but sees room for improvement in the Arts. Morris sees the transformation of the old Physics Building into a true Arts building as the beginning. Success In Sports In previous years the concept of the tri-mester system has been brought up for review. The fact that it has been maintained indicates the advantage of the experience of a more intensive study in fewer subjects, at one time. President Morris acknowledged this, however, he points out the problem of lack of time for \maturation of reflection.\ This is to say that there is a need for time for growth and understanding in the various disciplines. Nevertheless he sees the positives of the intensive educational experience and asserts that it is a part of Union which adds to a unique education. BY MAUREEN COLEMAN Staff Dick Sakala, now in his eighth year as director of athletics, provides a unique perspective on sports at Union. His pomt ot vtew has an ivy league influence, as he was a student, coach, · and ad- ministrator at Columbia University. Sakal a explains that when he began working at Union in 1977, the athletic department had specific ob- jectives, \to provide as broad based a program as possible for students at Union and to en- courage maximum par- ticipation at all levels. We wanted a quality program to complement the academic system and provide a maximum opportunity for students to participate.\ Describing Union as \in an excellent position from a comparison point of view,\ Sakala believes that several improvements have allowed for the fulfillment of his ambitions, the most obvious of which have been improved facilities. The addition of Achilles rink, Garris field, the astroturf, outdoor track and lights, and the scheduled renovation of Alumni gym in June all contribute to Sakala 's optimism toward Union's athletic program: \Two years from now, Union's facilities will be second to none.\ Sakala attributes much of this success to support from President Morris and the Board of Tmstees, \They've done a nice · job .of recognizing how important it is to have good facilities.\ He also points out that these improvements \have helped in attracting quality students and quality athletes to the college.\ Also, Sakala notes, the development aqd expansion of the total number of varsity team~ has been exceptional. Union offers twenty-three varsity and six junior varsity programs (twelve for men, eleven for women), and he expects \this will probably stay at the same level.\ These statistics represent con- siderable progressive development of intercollegiate programs-particulary . . for women-and Union's offermgs remain comparable to other similar Division II schools. While Sakala describes Union's coaching staff as \very fine teachers as well as those who are sensitive to students,\ and he is pleased with staff expansion over the years, especially the coaching support staff. Quality-wise, Sakala sees Union's coaches as \a favorable comparison to others,\ specifically noting the im- provements in women's sports. Now, under NCAA rules, women's coaches can actively recruit, which should add to the poten~ial teams have already shown. Women's teams, as the entire sports program, have also benefited from 0 proper budget support.\ Sakala ex- plains that while women's sports initially suffered from insufficient funds, after Title IX legislation, \a great inequity is now equalled,\ and women like all Union programs, enjoy comforts comparable to those at any Division II college. \A good feeling on campus from the. student body in general\ shows support for Union's programs, says Sakala. Spectator attendance, facu1ty support, ang general student enthusiasm are all encouraging to . the Athletic Department. Sakala belives intercollegiate athletics . in general are ''progressing nicely.'' The men's programs over the last few years have been very successful, and we're hoping the women's will improve too.\ He judges the 'success' of a Continued on page 8 Nationally students have been criticized for being apathetic. President Morris shifts the blame away from the student and onto the contemporary value of success in society. He sees the students as more than just conservative; students today are concerned with what will happen to them when they leave Union and move out into a world in which they must earn a living. It is his hope that Union will \teach students to think more broadly and understand more deeply so that they sense who they are and are better fitted to live. College is not just a transfer station to a job.\

PageS CONCORDIENSJS, February 21, 1985 FEATURES The Arts . . . A Liberal Arts Essential [ The Curriculum I Continued from page 6 science courses/' be claims, for broad back~round necessary . \theylive in. a scientific\vorld.\ for adequate preparation for the How can they otherwise un- By BETSY TREITLER Features Editor The artist is often quite lonely at Union. This undermines the true spirit of a liberal arts education. Professor Wilson, newly appointed Chairman of the Arts department, reflects upon the role of the artist in an environment such as that provided at Union. What Union needs is \an art requirement and a lunatic fringe reminiscent of the '60's\ to stimulate the conservative core of students; Wilson condemns the ex- cessive academic pressures created by the workload as the primary cause of what is commonly referred to as apathy. \Faculty and leader• ship cannot leave it there; they must encourage students to pursue the options and ex- periment.\ Professional careers and success are a poignant part of contemporary society. But, Wilson asks: \What are the students going to do when they come home from work each day?\ Appreciation of the Arts seems to be over- shadowed by the current em- phasis on materialism. \It is up to the institutions of higher education to point out that ·Sports Continued frpm page 7 program not just by the team's record, but by levels of par- ticipation and student en- joyment. At this point, 23 percent of the student body is involved in inter-collegiate sports, but another 10 percent takes athletic courses, and another 65 percent participates in in- tramurals. While ap- proximately 80 to 85 percent of the student body is now involved in the athletic program, Sakala hopes that the addition of the new recreational facilities will encourage even more par- ticipation and \enhance the recreational aspect of student life here.\ Currently, Union's athletic program is a pyramid structure with a broad base in recreational activities, then club programs through student activities, which have been increasingly active lately, and the traditional competitive teau11s. . With all these assets, does · Union have any weaknesses? Apparently, some sports, notably women's basketball, track, swimming and volleyball are suffering from a lack of participation. \This is not just Union's problem,\ Sakala explains, but he hopes that recruiting (combined with substantial internal talent) will eliminate this lack-and thus eliminate the remote but un- pleasant prospect of cutting lesser developed programs. Sakala hopes that the new Physical Activities Building will improve women's-and all students'-interest in athletics. (But one would question the excellence of facilities during construction ... ) Overall, Sakala remains exceedingly optimistic about Union's athletics, \I'm happy with the support from the ad- ministration and delighted by the support from the student body at large. I have to feel good about the coaches, staff, and students involved.'' He says of the improved athletics at Union, \I think we're running oat of goals ... \ professions. though important are not the final value of life.\ The lack of excellence at Union is in the lack of an artist's climate, says Wilson. The Arts course offerings are good but more are needed on a higher level. And this could be recti- fied by a College introductory art requirement which could potentially stimulate students to continue on to upper level arts courses. The nature of the College today is not conducive to more than a concentration in the Arts. Wilson labels the Arts a \service department\ because of the lack of students drawn to it so that there 'can be no Art major in the same sense as an economics or history major.' Further, Wilson denigrates the poor student attendance at Art presentations and functions. In short, \Union is not 100 percent a liberal arts institution and this can only be changed when the faculty -and Administration perceive this.\ Wilson sees Excellence in the Arts faculty although he asserts thatstudentsdonot''exploit the quality of the faculty as far as possible.\ Further, he recognizes wasted talent of students who are not coming out to be schooled-\because they have ·no time.\ Students are bogged down by unnecessary intense academic pressures and in the long run they will not be as well-rounded because they have not been adequately en- couraged to pursue the options. Ultimately, their exposure to the various disciplines and their perception of the in- terrelationships will be limited. Phase I and II of the recon- struction of the Al'ts building have made it more attractive and indicate increased at- tentiveness to the Arts department. Perhaps now it is time for a Rennaissance-a revival .of flourishing arts and intellectual activities to com- plement the rush into the professional world. outside world. derstand i-nstances and The problem liesin that with situations such as Bopal, he all such attempts, there 'is asked. always room for \fine-tuning.\ He admitted however, that For example, he explained, it is the job ·Of instilling a proper possible to receive . an un- attitude in students so that they dergraduate degree from Union do not fear and avoid science without taking a single course in rests not only with the college literature, with the exception of but also with society in general. freshman preceptorial. Weiner also admitted that ''I think that is preparing students properly is a preposterous,\ he exclaimed. problem in · {Ill levels of the All students Should graduate American educational system. with at least a basic un- In America as distinct from derstanding of the social and European systems, many historical culture in which he or people tend to think that the she lives. college can and should make up Schaefer, however, believes for deficiencies that exist in the that the science and first twelve years of schooling. engineering students are better ''There is only so much that prepared at Union in liberal arts can be accomplished,\ he ex• than the \liberal arts\ students plained, and the college cannot are in the sciences. be expected to provide remedial \I think that honest in- education. It is, rather, the job troductoty courses in science of the high school to prepare would be better liberal learning students with adequate courses than liberal learning literature and history courses for liberal learning,\ he requirements. · In Europe, commented. although fewer students go to \Students do need hard core .college, those who do go are much better prepared. In Excellence In Attempt America it is believed that everyone should s.eek higher education regardless of preparation. There is no ef- fective weeding out of those not sufficiently prepared. By DIANE M. SADAK When I began to consider the subject of \excellence at Union,\ particularly excellence in the arts, I had an instinctual reaction to consider what Union arts had, in its many forms, accomplished as finished products in the time I remember. Of course I came up with a whole list of concerts, photography, sculpture, and painting exhibitions, dance recitals, Cabarets, and the many theatrical productions which have been so much a part of my life during my time at Union College. What was missing, though, was the single link in my chain of thought which could tie together the spirit of these endeavors and capture the essence of the art in all its forms. Then it came to me. Attempt. It was in attempting to create each artistic form that the spirit of artistic excellence is em- bodied. Union has this spirit; more than being caught in the form of a department, or in the context of a club, it is in the students and faculty who constantly reach within themselves to offer their own versions of what art means to them. Does this sound bom- bastic? Preachy? It is not, I assure you it is so simple that it occurs daily without even the conscious knowledge of those who participate in the process; which is probably what makes it so difficult to explain. It is all around us at Union. Who am I to say that because the form I choose most to direct my ar- tistic energies tawards, the theater, is defined as an ''art form,\ it involves any more · artistic giving than the chemistry student who engages in original research, or the computer student who struggles to create a new program? Excellence is in attempting to create something above what is already planted in front of us. It is in discovery. And there is no one who can contest the un- deniable fact that it is all around us. I ask but one thing of the students, faculty, and staff here at Union. Attempt ... always, in whatever area or scope you feel most comfortable. You can not truly fail at any artistic en- deavor if you give of yourself in the name of creation. And that is the essence of art in every form. Beyond that, look around you to watch the creations of others'. I am always frustrated with those who say to me, \there really isn't an arts program at Union.\ Or, \I've been here four years and I've never been in the Nott.\ Look around you.. There is art at Union, excellent art, bMt it will not come seeking you out. The artistic form has transcended time, and it will last beyond each one of us. All it has to do is be. We must take t'he first step towards its appreciation. I am an artist, and my ex- perience at Union has included everything from Cabaret, Concert Band, singing for Parent's Weekend and Homecoming to dance prac- ticmns and, of course, the theater. Right now I am the head of Mountebanks, the student-run dramatic organization. I qualify MoWJ.- tebanks as \student-run\ because, unknown to most here, ·there are two separate; (but co-· working) artistic bodies which produce theater at Union. The other is the Arts Department itself. I also say student-run because it means exactly that: student run. The students must come forward, on their own, and take respon- sibility for the art they wish to create. And I am proud to say that during my four years here Mountebanks has grown and produced theater which we can all be proud of. The most recent of these, the Fall term musical \Jacques Brel is alive and Well and Living in Paris\ was directed by a student (myself), staffed, with two ex.ceptions, with students, and had a student cast. We were all taking full course loads-and the exc~e that \my courses are too hard\ is no excuse for not getting .involved. We all have tough schedules, and if someone out there doesn't, came to the next Mountebanks meeting, I'd love to meet you. The theater, the arts, needs people, for without people art has no life. In a way, this is a pep talk. It's not easy to maintain one's career goals and academic standards and nurture the artistic part of one's self. It can mean late nights, crammed exams, dinners on-the-run from the Skeller, and a lot of extra- strength Execedrin. It might even mean you have to do some of your work late at night in- stead of watching that episode of Twilight Zone again, or going to the Skeller for one last try at Lucky Hand. But for me, there is nothing more satisfying than watching the opening of a show which I created-which I gave a part ·Of myself to and shared with the rest of the student body. The more people that get involved in the arts at Union, . the more attempts at creation of art by the student body, the higher our goals can reach. Goals, not only for the end- product of an exhibition or artistic performance, but in- ternal goals-learning goals which bring out the artistic excellence in ourselves. EXCELLENCE

CONCORDIENSIS, Febr,uary 21, 1985 Page9 Speakers F.orum ... Comedian Leno to Perform He's performed on Late Night with David Letterman. He's entertained throngs of viewers on the Tonight Show. And on Tuesday, February 26, 1985, at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, the Speakers Forum wiU proudly present comedian extraordinaire, JAY LENO. Jay Leno had always been the class clown, but he never thought of making people laugh as a profession until he began daing casual dates around the Boston area. Leno's career really began in Boston where he was attending Emerson College. A speech com· munications major by day and a comedy crusader by night, Jay honed his art, touring dubs, occasionally emceeing at burlesque houses. York Improvisation. The owner saw him pull up in front of the club in a $100,000 car and made the unprecedented decision that Leno had to be funny-and more importapt, could be a potential investor in his new club. Graduating from Emerson College and armed with a B.A. in communication, Jay moved to New York City in 1974, where he soon became a regular at the Improvisation. one affectionately as Mr. Buick. So fond is Jay of this car, that Mr. Buick even attended Leno's wedding. Now one of the most sought after comedic personalities on the TV tall show circuit, Leno made his first appearance on the Tonight Show with host Sohnny Carson and has since appeared on the show numerous times. Ia addition, Leno has performed on the David Let- terman Show 35 times. Jay Leno possesses a well honed wit, a special blend of humor. He is currently a headlining act in comedy clubs throughout the country. Tickets are on sale at the box office-$2.00 for students, $4.00 for the general public. So be sure to get your tickets ·soon. You won't want to miss. this special performance. FEATURES Comedian Jay Leno will entertain at Memorial Chapel on February 26. Jay's horizons widened rapidly when still in college. He took a part-time job delivering Rolls-royce automobiles ... The :Rolls was instrumental in Jay's first appearance at the New In 1975, he moved to California, and went directly to the Comedy Store on the Sunset Strip. Leno auditioned and began performing. It was all glamour on stage but less than glittery before and after hours. Leno found adequate ac- comodations sleeping in the back seat of a 1955 Buick Roadmaster he had bought soon after his arrival in Los Angeles. He still owns the car, along with several ·other vintage automobiles, out refers to this ''Tinkers .At Union'' WRUC TRIVIA U PDAT.E UNOFFICIAL SCORES--WEEK#! Fox\Davidson Davidson 12 Fox 4 Other Dorms, Frats, Soro.tities · Phi Neat Guys 12 ZB Terminators 11 Hickok Trojans 9 South 3 Webster Sport Beans 2 Independent\ BOb 12 South Rebels Ill 7 Cherry Pickers 7 Official Union College Trivia Team for the 1988 Winter Olympics 3 American Societi for the Reinstatement and Preser· vation of Red M&M's 4 Bikini Men 2 Great Minds 1 Z:eta Beta Tomatoes 1 Court Gestures 1 Cloud Kings 1 Bettys l Two Lonely Guys Stuck in an Elevator in South Dakota 1 3-point Bonus Question for Next Sunday The trademark or symbol of New Yorker Magazine is a monocled gentleman. What is the name of the gentleman? TUNE IN SUNDAYS 2/24AND3/3 FOR MORE TRIVIA ON 89.7 FM By MARGARET BOITANO After a yearlong journey with a sect of Irish Gypsies ap- propriately entitled the \Tinkers Professors George and Sharon Gmelch of Union's Sociology-Anthropology Dep- artment gathered enough in- formatioa to produce several award winning publications. The extent of their travels lasted approximately three and a half years and carried them throughout Ireland as well as the United Kingdom. \The. Irish Tinkers or Travellers\ as· they are called, are the European equivalent to gypsies in the sense that they lead the same lifestyles but aren't of Indian origin. Today most travellers live on the outskirts of cities and towns and travel in wagons and trailers. Originally they were horse traders and tinsmiths but as the needs of country people changed, they switched to other occupations. Recently George Gmelch finished the revisions to the second edition of his book The Irish Tinkers: The Urbanization of An Itinerant People; and a second edition to his book To Shorten the Road on Traveller folklore was recently published. Sharon Gmelch, after VIA VENETO CAFE A new bar at the Appian Way Invites You To ·UNION COLLEGE NIGHT Tonight from 9-2 a.m. Specials Include *rigatoni bolognese $3.50 · * individua I, homemade P.izzas w/unique toppings .. ~$L75 * mixed drinks--$1.00 *and more! This Friday: LADIES NIGHT Special: Mixed Drinks $1.00 Domestic Beer SO¢· Now Open Sundays 1 p.m.-9 p.m. 1841 Van Vranken *Special Sunday Dinners: .Homecooked Italian Specialties publishing Tinkers and Travellers which won Ireland's book of the year award in 1976, is now awaiting the decision of a publisher on a biolgraphy of an Irish Tinker woman. She plans on a return visit to Ireland this summer to do follow-up research on Travellers ethnicity. In addition to the in depth research on Irish Tinkers, both Professors have done much research in other culture areas. For the past five years, George Gmeleh ·has been studying the social and economic impacts of immigrants who return to their underdeveloped homelands after many years aborad. He has studied return migrants in Newfoundland, Barbados as well as Ireland. The past two summers, the Gmelches have studied patterns of resource use by Indians and Whites in coastal Alaska. The Alaskan studies were done for the National Park Service and the State of Alaska. Certainly these ongoing projects must be rewarding both inside and outside of the classroom and are a reflection of an energetic as well as up-to- date Sociology and Anthropology Department. Professor G. Gmelch travelling with Tinkers in a covered wagon. STATE OFA SENIOR VOLUME I(: .. in heroic couplets) Now is the winter of our discontente, My mind Ionge frozen, my patron's gold spent e. Descending to the dungeon odious, Past lost soules, their quest the commodious. Past flaming centaurs--who promise Taste, cool, You've come a long way baby--cancer tools. At last emprise attained, the sacred brand, For ere emblazoned upon my meek hand. Within the moist, damp, and reeking cavern, Frothing cauldrons, the i11}1amed kernels burn. On one side tlte commo11s \bob\ injiste, Jndulging in card games, raising tl1e wriste. Juxtapos'd, Athenians, Cretins talke, All ptaising their house (Under de Boardwa/ke), Discuss ornithology, and eyes gawke, Spotti11g robin's tail (Under de Boardwalke). And thus WI,' contemplate our state affairs, Toss the goblet, we bequeath to our heirs: (TO BE CONTINUED) -·Steve Glazer Jen Poston

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1985 <llnltfllrbtrnsis Fo~J at llnion Collt:ge 187'7 ------------ ----~-- Chet and Andy's Beginning this Sunday, Union's food service will open a new version of late nite bites called Chet and Andy's Cafe {after Andrew Carnegie and the College's illustrious alumnus Chester Arthur). This cafe will be open on Sundays, Mondays, and Wed- nesdays (the nights the Pub is closed) from 8:00-12:00 p.m. in the banquet room, Carnegie Hall. Chet and Andy's Cafe will serve, through the Pizza Pub, such delicacies as hot dogs, danish, donuts, and bagels, among other foods. It is hoped that this cafe will fill a void left by the demise of late nite bites. Chet and Andy's Cafe will give students a place to go for a quick snack where they can relax. This spot also represents an endeavor, on the part of the Student Forum, for a soci~l gathering where alcohol is not available, a definite plus for students under the legal drinking age. So, if you have nothing to do for a few minutes this Sunday night and you just want a quick snack, visit Chet and Andy's Cafe. Union needs social establishments that do not emphasize alcohol; Chet and Andy's Cafe is such a spot. Forum Office The Student Fortun has recently celebrated the grand opening of their new office on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. Celebrations were certainly in order for this is the first time, after years of proposals, that the Forum has finally acquired its own heaquarters. The office will be more than a mere site for members to gather. In their quest for efficient and effective organization, each member has voltmt-eered to set up office hours, whereby one or more members will be available on a regular basis throughout the week. Forum representatives are elected to represent the student body. They ~erve as a forum through which students can voice their grievances and propose new ideas for the College, and they act as liaisons between the student body and the College administration. It is hoped that students will take advantage of this opportunity to meet with their representatives on issues of student interest or on any campus issue they feel is important. It would indeed be a shame if this concept of a government office and office hours were to be discontinued some time in the future due to lack of campus interest and participation. The office will also serve as a place in which records can be kept on student finances, publications, committee minutes, and all other such documents that should have been saved from year to year but have not. The office is long overdue. The Forum now has its own long overdue headquarters and long- awaited by-laws. The Student Forum, it seems, has surprised us after all. Election for the positions of editors-in-chief of Concordie11sis will be held on February 26 ·in the Concordy Office on the 4th floor of Carnegie at 7 p.m. Sign .. up sheet is posted in the Student Activities Office. All interested students must submit their names and phone numbers by Monday, February 25 at 4 p.m. · LETTERS Choose ·Concert Band To the Editor: Now that ·midterms are over- and all that remains for most of us at this point is finals, we begin to think about spring term and possible activities to par- ticipate in. I offer one possible choice-Concert Band. One reasen I mention this is the Concert Band's need .for members, particularly three flutists, an oboe, one trombone, an alto saxophone or two, a clarinet, a trumpet; a bass clarinet, and two per- cussionists. If an instrument is needed, it is available through the music department or through rental companies. Now, why would anyone want to play in the Concert Band? Well, persom:1lly, I get satisfaction out af playing a concert well. There will ·be two or three scheduled spring term, the first one is April 18, one on Parents' Weekend, andpossibly one after that. Another reason to participate is relaxation. Rehearsals are· a change of pace, you can forget about tests, papers, bad weather, girlfriend\ boyfriend problems, and roommate or other problems while having a good time with friends. Anyone interested in becoming a member should contact me ( x6459), Susan Petrou ( x6540), or Charles Liinoges ( x6556) ; or come to a rehearsal on Thursday nights from 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. There are only three left this ter.m and three next term before the concert in April, so please try to attend the last three this term. Please consider this possibility; a college education is more than just academics. Thank You, Philip Hotchkiss President, Concert Band Athletic Facilities Criticized To the Editor: The athletic facilities open to all students, not varsity athletes, here at Union are compatible to those of a South Bronx YMCA. The equipment in AlUIIU1i is rundown, unsafe, antiquated. and an insult to those students who like to keep their bodies as well as their minds in shape. Nowbefore you say it, I know Alwnni will be completely renovated in three years, so what? Will you be here? I won't. Look, I'm not asking for Nautilus equipment, raquetball courts (although we need them), or indoor tennis courts, like most com,parable schools have. All I wat1t are some im\ mediate improvements. How about spending. a couple thousand dollars of that \surplus\ money on some free- weights, curl bars, benches; basketballs and other assorted equipment we don't have. It's just not fair that the track team, crew club, women's lacrosse team and your average student have to fight to use inadequate facilities and equipment. Perhaps Union should reevaluate what they consider to be \an extensive athletic program\ in their 84-85 college catalog, and in their computer printouts that are sent to high School guidance counselors all across America. Did your getesman take you through Alumni? P.S. - Apart from the aforementioned conditions of the athletic facilities at this school, a student has little or no chance of gaining access to the field\house or Alumni with the · competition or organized sports programs. Should you have to play an intercollegiate sport to use Union's gyms????? Sincerely, A.J. Cou:nter Perspective Absent To the Editor: Last Thursday I listened to the special program on abortion on WRUC. Naturally, I ex- pected to hear both sides of the ' issue discussed equally. Since the station is supposed to both represent and serve the entire campus, this would seem to be its responsibility. Unfor\ tunately, it became readily apparent that the management of WRUC bad taken no steps to insure this. To begin with, there was a great discrepancy in the caliber of the personnel selected by two ladies from Albany who ap- parently spend a great deal of their time researching and speaking on this issue. The Pro- Choice group was represented by a student who simply didn't have a broad enough knowledge of the subject area to make an effective case. Because of this difference in knowledge of the abortion issue, the Right to Life point of view ended up oc\ cupying the vast majority of the air time. There was . also a major technical problem with the program. While . the Right to Life representatives sounded perfectly clear, the Pro-Choice representative must have been using inferior equipment, and was frequently droWI'ied out by the static. It should seem o~ vious that having two trained Right to lifers debate a- single untrained Pro--Choice advocate, who is using inferior equipment, is an absurd format. The second half of the program was a question and answer period. During this time there was no Pro-Choice ad- vocate present to provide any counter perspective. Of course, the girl running the program cut off all opposing callers before they were finished. Strangely though, the one caller who opposed abortion was allowed plenty of time to speak. So much for neutrality. Finally, at the conclusion of the program the Right to Lifers were allowed time for closing statements. Again, only one side was represented. It was easy to accuse the Pro\Choice advocates of using only cliches and make questionable statements when no reply was forthcoming. There was no point in the program where a Pro-Choice supporter was allowed to g~t the last word in, and in fact it seemed as if they should have been thankful to get any word in. It also seemed inappropriate for the campus Right to Life group to hold a brief membership drive at the end of the program. In conclusion, we must ask why this injustice occurred. What probably happlmed was that the campus Right to Life group provided two speakers for the program. The man~gement of WRUC must be considered responsibl~ for presenting an unbiased program. There was a 10 second disclaimer read at the end of the broadcast, but I question whether this would affect someone who had just listened to two hours · of biased programming. In the future WRUC should stick to broad- casting music and sports, since they obviously can't present issues such as this in a fair and respectable manner. Sincerely, Eric S. Maniloff

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1985 <Unwrbirnsis Fountkd al Umo11 College 1877 ------------ --------· Chet and Andy's Beginning this Sunday, Union's food service will open a new version of late nite bites called Chet and Andy's Cafe (after Andrew Carnegie and the College's illustrious alumnus Chester Arthur). This cafe will be open on Sundays~ Mondays, and Wed- nesdays (the nights the Pub is closed) from 8: 00-12: 00 p.m. in the banquet room, Carnegie Hall. Chet and Andy's Cafe will serve, through the Pizza Pub, such delicacies as hot dogs, danish, donuts, and bagels, among other foods. It is hoped that this cafe will fill a void left by the demise of late nite bites. Chet and Andy's Cafe will give students a place to go for a quick snack where they can relax. This spot also represents an endeavor, on the part of the Student Forum, for a social gathering where alcohol is not available, a definite plus for students under the legal drinking age. So, if you have nothing to do for a few minutes this Sunday night and you just want a quick snack, visit Chet and Andy's Cafe. Union needs social establishments that do not emphasize alcohol; Chet and Andy's Cafe is such a spot. Forum Office The Student Forum has recently celebrated the grand opening of their new office on the fourth floor of Carnegie Hall. Celebrations were certainly in order for this is the first time, after years of proposals, that the Forum has finally acquired its own heaquarters. The office will be more than a mere site for members to gather. In their quest for efficient and effective organization, each member has volunteered to set up office hours, whereby one or more members will be available on a regular basis throughout the week. Forum representatives are elected to represent the student body. They serve as a forum through which students can voice their grievances and propose new ideas for the College, and they act as liaisons between the student body and the College administration. It is hoped that students will take advantage of this opportunity to meet with their representatives on issues of student interest or on any campus issue they feel is important. It would indeed be a shame if this concept of a government office and office hours were to be discontinued some time in the future due to lack of campus interest and participation. The office will also serve as a place in which records can be kept on student finances, publications, committee minutes, and all other such documents that should have been saved from year to year but have not. The office is long overdue. The Forum now has its own long overdue headquarters and long- awaited by-laws. The Student Forum, it seems, has surprised us after all. Election for the positions of editors-in-chief of Concordiensis will be held on February 26 in the Concordy Office on the 4th floor of Carnegie at 7 p.m. Sign- up sheet is posted in the Student Activities Office. All interested students must submit their names and phone numbers by Monday, February 25 at 4 p.m. LETTERS Choose Concert Band To the Editor: Now that midterms are over and all that remains for most of us at this p0int is finals, we begin to think about spring term and possible activities to par- ticipate in. I offer 0ne possible choice-Concert Band. One reason I mention this is the Concert Band's need for members, particularly three flutists, an oboe, one trombone, an alto saxophone or two, a clarinet, a trumpet, a bass clarinet, and two per- cussionists. If an instrument is needed, it is available through the music department or through rental companies. Now, why would anyone want to play in the Concert Band? Well, personally, I get satisfaction out of playing a concert well. There will be two or three scheduled spring term, the first one is April18, one 0n Parents' Weekend, and possibly one after that. Another reason to participate is relaxation. Rehearsals are a change of pace, you can forget about tests, papers, had weather, girlfriend- boyfriend problems, and roommate or other problems while having a good time with friends. Anyone interested in becoming a member should contact me ( x6459), Susan Petrou ( x6540), or Charles Limoges ( x6556) ; or come to a rehearsal on Thursday nights from 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. There are only three left this term and three next term before the concert in April, so please try to attend the last three this term. Please consider this possibility; a college education is more than just academics. Thank You, Philip Hotchkiss President, Concert Band Athletic Facilities Criticized To the Editor: The athletic facilities open to all students, not varsity athletes, here at Union are compatible to those of a South Bronx YMCA. The equipment in Alumni is rundown, unsafe, antiquated, and an insult to those students who like to keep their bodies as well as their minds in shape. Now before you say it, I know Alumni will be completely renovated in three years, so what? Will you be here? I won't. Look, I'm not asking for Nautilus equipment, raquetball courts (although we need them), or indoor tennis courts, like most comparable schools have. All I want are some im- mediate improvements. H0w about spending a couple tho1:lsand dollars 0f that \surplus\ money on some free- weights, curl bars, benches, basketballs and other assorted equipment we don't have. It's just not fair that the track team, crew club, women's lacrosse team and your average student have to fight to 1:lse inadequate facilities and equipment. Perhaps Uni:on should reevaluate what they consider to be \an extensive athletic program\ in their 84-85 college catalog, and in their computer printouts that are sent to high school guidance cOtmselors all across America. Did your getesman take you thro1:lgh Alumni? P.S. - Apart from the aforementioned conditions of the athletic facilities at this school, a student has little or no chance of gaining access to the field-bouse or Alumni with the competition or organized sports programs. Should you have to play an intercollegiate sport to use Union's gyms????? Sincerely, A.J. Counter Perspective Absent To the Editor: Last Thursday I listened to the special program on abortion on WRUC. Naturally, I ex- pected to hear both sides of the issue discussed equally. Since the station is supposed to both represent and serve the entire campus, this would seem to be its responsibility. Unfor- tunately, it became readily apparent that the management of WRUC had taken no steps to insure this. To begin with, there was a great discrepancy in the caliber of the personnel selected by two ladies from Albany who ap- parently spend a great deal of their time researching and speaking on this issue. The Pro- Choice group was represented by a student who simply didn't have a broad enough knowledge of the subject area to make an effective case. Because of this difference in knowledge of the abortion issue, the Right to Life point of view ended up oc- cupying the vast majority of the air time. There was also a major technical problem with the program. While the Right to Life representatives sounded perfectly clear, the Pro-Choice representative must have been using inferior equipment, and was frequently drowned out by the static. It should seem ob- vious that having two trained Right to Lifers debate a single untrained Pro-Choice advocate, who is using inferior equipment, is an absurd format. The second half of the program was a question and answer period. During this time there was no Pro-Choice ad- vocate present to provide any counter perspective. Of course, the girl running the program cut off all opposing callers before they were finished. Strangely though, the one caller who opposed abortion was allowed plenty of time to speak. So much for neutrality. Finally, at the conclusion of the program the Right to Lifers were allowed time for closing statements. Again, only 0ne side was represented. It was easy to accuse the Pro-Choice advocates of using only cliches and make questionable statements when no reply was forthcoming. There was no point in the program where a Pro-Choice supporter was allowed to get the last word in, and in fact it seemed as if they should have been thankful to get any word in. It also seemed inappropriate for the campus Right to Ufe group to hold a brief membership drive at the end of the program. In conclusion, we must ask why this injustice occurred. Editors-in..Chief News Editors FeatUres Editors Commentary Page Editor Arts Editors Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Associate Sports Editors Advertising Editors What pr0bably happened was that the campus Right to Life group provided two speakers for the program. The management of WRUC must be considered responsible. for presenting an unbiased program. There was a 10 second disclaimer read at the end of the broadcast, but I question whether this would affect someone who had just listened to two hours of biased programming. In the future WRUC should stick to broad· casting music and sports, since they obviously can't present issues such as this in a fair and respectable manner. Sincerely, Eric S. Maniloff Marcy Burstiner, Gayle Itosenfeld Sarah Calderini,.Julie Steinhardt David Fitzgerald, Betsy 'l'reitler David Frantz Debbie Albert, Linda Raffaele Barbara Doyte. Jill Kaufman,. Paul Kurker, Lynn O'Brien Jay Grossman, JO$h Greene _ Associate Advertising Editors Photo Editor· Ellen Slipp, Heidi Rosen Debbie ltose, Lauren Sobel Dave Gruber Pat Merritt, Scott Press Mitch Bernstein, Jim Campbell Sports Photo .Editors Sul:}scription Editors Staff: Mickey Bradley, Lori Cooper, Kim Hancock, Andy Hodgkin, Brian Laux, Emily Loose1 Dave Marin, Joanne McAndrews, Peter Mohr, Eileen O'Connell, Steve Piraino, Amy Rosenkrantz, Joy Runyon, Franklin Schneider, Mitchell Stein, Conrad Tatge, Janice Thompson, Mark Van Buren,. Al White, Scott Wykoff, Greg Fay. CONCOI\DIENSIS is published ~very Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: SU$quebanna Publications; Inc., Box 388', Sidney; New York 13838, (607) 56&;3S26. · 1 c v ~ s 1\ e

CONCORDIENSIS, February 21,. 1985 Page ll COMMENTARIES l Abortion Is.sue Raised Fron1 Where I Stand By MICHAEL BOWMAN On Thursday, February 14th, students were presented with information on· the medical, social, and philosophical problems presented by legalized abartion. · At 7:30 p.m., the Union College Pro-Life Forum held its largest and most successful presentation to date, featuring two speakers: Barbara Fraterrigo, current leader of New York State Right to Life, and Jan Lovell of WEBA (Women Exploited by Abor- tion), both of whom were ex- cellent speakers. · Mrs. Fraterrigo's in- formative discourse included a sl·ide presentation which depicted the development of pre-born human life in ex- tensive scientific detail. Mrs. Fraterrigo answered questions from the audience throughout her lecture, as she discussed the leg~d and moral implications of the Supreme Court's Roe vs. Wade decision, the decision which legalized abortion in 1973. Among the many issues discussed was the question of whether abortion posed a. problem of church and state separation-a question which Mrs. Fraterrigo answered with ease: \Many religions· profess that it is immoral to steal,'' she analogized, ''but that doesn't mean laws against theft are· in . violation of church and state separation.\ Jan Lovell brought to 'light a more personal aspect of the abortion issue. Mrs. Lovell represents WEBA, a national organization of women who have had abortions, but have, since that time, realized the terrible effects of abortion upon women and their bodies, as well as upon their unborn children. Mrs. Lovell stressed the im- portance of the damage suf- fered by women who undergo abortions, including physical complica-tions, possible inability to bear future children, and psychological trauma, anguish and guilt. The speakers were then in- terviewed on the cellege radio station WRUC during ,John Bak's radie show. Interviewer Debi. B~llard asked many probing questions of Mrs. Lovell and Mrs. Fraterrigo, while a number of listeners phoned in questions for the . speakers to answer. Also interviewed was Ms. Sharon Long of Feminists For Life, a pro-life women's rights group, and a volunteer for Birthright, a . national organization, which offers To· all student activity chairmen: All boxes for Concordiensis must be typed! If you wish to run an ad for more thai'! one week, piease cu.t the ad out of the paper and tape It to a sheet of paper. When changes are made to an ad that was previously run, the ad must be retyped as well Union College Film Committee Presents Fri., sa,t., sun. 2122- 2124 7:00,9:00,11 :OO/SS016/$1.00 Letters to the editor commentaries do and not necessa ri I y reflect the opinions of the editoria I board of Conco.rd~ensis. pregnant women positive alternative& to abortion. Altogether, the radio interview lasted for nearly three hours; between the three speakers of diverse insights into the issue and tJ:Ie many callers who reflected various viewpoints, the interview became a superb forum for an exchange of ideas on the abortion issue. One common questitm delat with was the issue of whether women have the right to an abortion, especially in the 'hard cases' such as rape. The speakers aH responded in a similar fashion, stating that a woman who has been the victim of the terrible crime of rape will only com- pound her preblem by being a part to a second violent crime, that of violence against her child. No one, according to the speakers, has the right to take human life regardless of the circumstances present. Both the live audience presentation and the interview on WRUC were overwhelming successes. Union College Pro- Life Forum President Paul Edwards stated that, \our organization will continue to stage events such as this and to provide the campus community with information on the problems that are inherent to abortion on demand.\ ByWAYNEJOSEL With the seventh week .of the term ending, I felt that it was high time that someone examined the phenomenon which, for lack of a better name, I will dub the Shunp. This is the ninth. incidence of the Slump that I have experienced and yet, little seems to have changed fnom the first time, way back in November of 1981. There are a number of reasons for the Slump. The trimester schedule system incorporated here at Union means that most people have exams in the fifth and sixth week of the term. After two intense weeks of catching up on class work, the seventh week seems like as good a time as any to allow one's grey matter a chance to experience something other than class notes, outlines, and textbooks. More interesting is the fact that by the seventh week we see light at the end of the tunnel. The trimester is so short and intense that by now we are beginning to think about its conclusion. However we seem te look a little too far ahead. We plan our vacations, start thinking about the schedule for next term, and, in winter, dream about warmer weather. Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a leHer to· the editor • C:kiGl IT! What we fail to realize is that there is one hurdle to overcome before the fun can start. That hurdle is finals week, and with the seniors that means the completion of theses, in- dependent studies, and most of the serious work of the college career. What is curious hete is how an irrational twist of logic can command semany at thispoint. We all know that the term will end very shortly, and with it will come the completion of all the work it .encompassed. However, we take this as a fait accompli and pray that the end will come more quickly. The realization that the end will only come when we are finished, and not when the calendar says we are finished usually settles in · sometime during the eighth week providing us with time to catch up with what was wasted thinking of more pleasant things to come. The Seventh Week Slump, and its rationale, are probably necessary ingredients to any busy schedule. Without it I have a feeling that many around us would explode. It provides us with a vision of what will come with the end of the term. We can see the light at the end of the tunnel, and God willing, it is not an oncoming freight train. All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4p.m. each Tuesday before publicati-. on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request . f-lql/4 a $BXf; -tyM'q ~1'1 111rl~~ ~ :Jti;

CONCORDIENSJS, February 21, 1985 Page 11 COMMENTARIES Abortion Issue Raised Frolll Where I Stand By MICHAEL BOWMAN On Thursday, February 14th, students were presented with information on the medical, social, and philosophical problems presented by legalized abortion. At 7:30 p.m., the Union College Pro-Life Forum held its largest and most successful presentation to date, featuring two speakers: Barbara Fraterrigo, current leader of New York State Right to Life, and Jan Lovell of WEBA (Women Exploited by Abor- tion), both of whom were ex- cellent speakers. Mrs. Fraterrigo's in- formative discourse included a slide presentation which depicted the development of pre-born human life in ex- tensive scientific detail. Mrs. Fraterrigo answered questions from the audience throughout her lecture, as she discussed the legal and moral implications of the Supreme Court's Roe vs. Wade decision, the decision which legalized abortion in 1973. Among the many issues discussed was the question of whether abortion posed a problem of church and state separation-a question which Mrs. Fraterrigo answered with ease: \Many religions profess that it is immoral to steal,'' she analogized, \but that doesn't mean laws against theft are in . violation of church and state separation.\ Jan Lovell brought to light a more personal aspect of the abortion issue. Mrs. Lovell represents WEBA, a natienal organization of women who have had abortions, but have, since that time, realized the terrible effects of abortion upon women and their bodies, as well as upon their unborn children. Mrs. Lovell stressed the im- portance of tbe damage suf- fered by women who undergo abortions, including physical complications, possible inability to bear future children, and psychological trauma, anguish and guilt. The speakers were then in- terviewed on the college radio station WRUC during John Bak's radio show. Interviewer Debi. Ballard asked many probing questions of Mrs. Lovell and Mrs. Fraterrigo, while a number of listeners phoned in questions for the speakers to answer. Also interviewed was Ms. Sharon Long of Feminists For Life, a pro-life women's rights group, and a volunteer for Birthright, a national organization, which offers To all student activity chairmen: All boxes for Concordiensis must be typed! If you wish to run an ad for more than one week, please cut the ad out of the paper and tape It to a sheet of paper. When changes are made to an ad that was previously run, the ad must be retyped as well : ' ' • 0 ' ,: ; 0 • • \ l ' ~ • • I ' ' : f • Union College Film Committee Presents Fri., Sat., Sun. 2/22-2/24 7:00, 9: 00, 11: OO/SS016/$1.00 :·:,- ! . . .. . . . • . • , : ' . ·. . . . Letters to the commentaries necessarily editor do and not reflect the opinions of the editoria I board of Concord.ensis. pregnant women positive alternatives- to abortion. Altogether, the radio interview lasted for nearly three hours; between the three speakers of diverse insights into the issue and the many caUers who reflected various viewpoints, the interview became a superb forum for an exchange of ideas on the abortion issue. One common question delat with was the issue of whether women have the right to an abortion, especially in the 'hard cases' such as rape. The speakers all responded in a similar fashion, stating that a weman who has been the victim ef the terrible crime of rape will only com- pound her problem by being a part to a second violent crime, that of violence against her child. No one, according to the speakers, has the right to take humaA life regardless of the circumstances present. Both the live audience presentation and the interview on WRUC were overwhelming successes. Union College Pro- Life Forum President Paul Edwards stated that, \our organization will continue to stage events such as this and to provide the campus community with information on the problems that are inherent to abortion on demand.\ By WAYNE JOSEL With the seventh week of the term ending, I felt that it was high time that someone examined the phenomenon which, for lack of a better name, I will dub the Slump. This is the ninth incidence of the Slump that I have experienced and yet, little seems to have changed from the first time, way back in November of 1981. There are a number of reasons for the Slump. The trimester schedule system incorporated here at Union means that most people have exams in the fifth and sixth week of the term. After two intense weeks of catching up on class work, the seventh week seems like as good a time as any to allow one's grey matter a chance to experience something other than class notes, outlines, and textbooks. More interesting is the fact that by the seventh week we see light at the end of the tunnel. The trimester is so short and intense that by now we are beginning to think about its conclusion. However we seem to look a little too far ahead. We plan our vacations, start thinking about the schedule for next term, and, in winter, dream about warmer weather. Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a letter to the editor What we fail to realize is that there is one hurdle to overcome before the fun can start. That hurdle is finals week, and with the seniors that means the completion of theses, in- dependent studies, and most of the serious work of the college career. What is curious here is how an irrational twist of logic can corrunand so many at this point. We all know that the term will end very shortly, and with it wiU come the completion of all the work it encompassed. However, we take this as a fait accompli and pray that the end will come more quickly. The realization that the end will only come when we are finished, and not when the calendar says we are finished usually settles in sometime during the eighth week providing us with time to catch up with what was wasted thinking of more pleasant things to come. The Seventh Week Slump, and its rationale, are probably necessary ingredients to any busy schedule. Without it I have a feeling that many around us would explode. It provides us with a vision of what will come with the end of the term. We can see the light at the end of the tunnel, and God willing, it is not an oncoming freight train. All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicati- on. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. I ~'I· \' { .. , I ~o\' . ' t \tWJ~~ ~~s / tt's CO/'f\p.J J C::kTQt IT! 1-/qv.t a -sax~; -(yMq ~~! 1111~~ ~ Jifi\

Page 12 CAREER NEWS Internships & Fellowships (information available at the Career Development Center) ATTENTION: All Engineering Seniors & Graduate Students. On February 25, between 12:00 - 1:30 at Roam 201 But- terfield Hall, there will be an information session presented by the Air Force Health Professions Representative to discuss opportunities as a Bio Environmental 'Engineer. This will be the only session. Alfred University offers a graduate program assistant- ship for students interested in a Master of Science in Education. Financial assistance will defray the cost through a Resident Director position. The position provides meals, housing, tuition and $3,600. The Department of Biology at the State University of New . York College of Fredonia has openings for Graduate Teaching Assistantships. The three areas of study are molecular-cell, ecology or physiology. AnENTION IRC MEMBERS! There will be a meeting Thursday night Feb. 21 at 8:00 in SS 11 0 to discuss the up- coming model UN. It is very important that you attend if you are planning to go down to New York in· April. If you cannot make it and wish to go call Eric at 6977 by Friday. NEW MEMBERS WELCOME! CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1985 Council for Opportunity in Graduate Managemtn Education (COGME) offers fellowships to Afro-Americans, American Indians, Asian- Americans, and Hispanic Americans interested in the field of Management. Application Deadline: April15, 1985. The Tricentennial Com- mission ·of Albany is planning a celebration for the 300th an- niversary in 1986 and is seeking ideas and volunteers-interns to work at historic research, communications, marketing, writing, etc. ·Peabody College of Van- derbilt University offers a scholarship progtam designed to recognize minority students with academic achievement. The program enables those students to further their education who would not otherwise be able to do so. The Education Department of the South Street Seaport Museum offers internships to students with a background· in American History, Architec- ture, Education or related fields. Internships begin June 4 and extend through Labor Day. Application deadline: April 15, 1985. Application deadline: May 15, 1985. Washington County Mental Health Services, Inc. offers ,graduate internships working with psychiatrically disabled adults in central Vermont. This is a one-year program with a Bachelor's degree required. The National Trust for Historic Preservation is of- fering internships to students interested in the Museum field. Past interns have worked as Research Assistants, Actress, Curatorial Research Assistant, Historic Site Maintenance Technician, Historic House Museum Manager, and Special· Exhibit Research Assistant. Application deadline: March 31, 1985. SPEAKERS Stella Nowicki, an erganizer of women workers for over 40 years, will speak and show her fihn UNION MAIDS at Ren\ sselaer Polytechnic Institute OR Tuesday, March 5, at 7 p.m. in the Communications Center Room 318. Admission is free with RPI i.d. and $1 general public, sponsored by UPAC Women's Concerns. Fight Reagan's Budget Cuts To Education Call Steve Benson 346-6665 Film CommiHee Presents: February 22-24 ''PURPLE RAIN February 2~ ''BLAZING SADDLES'' 55016 The English Department at Union College will present two readings by distinguished Irish novelist and short-story writer William Trevor Thursday, Feb. 21. At 3:30 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge, he will read from his autobiography, and at 8 p.m. in the Hale House Lower Lounge, he will read from current fiction. All are welcome to attend, and ne admission will be charged. CLUB NEWS The Arts Club is announcing the Art Table. Wednesdays in t)le Pub at 12:30, A free format weekly discussion over iunch. Bring something to doodle on and have fun. Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members are always welc~me. Prayer-Scripture Study Groups-Monday, February 25th at 5 p.m. and Wednesday, February 27th at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, February 25 at 8 p.m. in 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Tutorial Program-Any Union College student in- terested in tutoring Readil).g one hour a week primarily to 2nd graders of St. John the Evangelist School, please contact Liz Karazim, 370-6774. Confirmation-Any Union College student who has not been Cm:tfi.rmed and wishes to receive the Sacrament May 18th at St. John's please contact Sr. Joan who will arrange classes . .during the spring term that will fit student schedules. 'The Union College Christian Fellowship's annual \FUN NIGHT\ will be held this Friday evening at 7 .in Strauss Lounge. Join us for fun and games, topped off with make- your-own ice cream sundaes. This event is free, and is open to all. The Union College Christian Fellowship meets Mondays, at 6:30 p.m. in 4th floor lounge, · Carnegi, for Bible study. AH are welcome to attend. HELP WANTED Student interested in doing day care for one toddler- location Seward Place. Please contact 370-2360. Grand Opening Of CHET & ANDY'S CAFE on Sunday,February24 at 8:00p.m. in the Banquet Room Carnegie Hall Food can be ordered at the Pizza Pub counter. Menu will include: hot dogs, bagels w/cream cheese, donuts, danish, coffee and tea. Cafe will be open every Sunday, Monday and Wednesday from 8 p.m. until12 a.m. in the Banquet Room. SENIORS! Don't forget to vote February 22nd for your 2 Alumni Council Representatives! Elec- tions will be in Carnegie Hall from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. PERSONALS Now only 25¢ Each order forms are available · in the Box Office ·and will be accepted with payment at the Concordy office on the 4th floor of Carnegie Hall 29Days 'Til , Spring Break ..

.. - CONCORIJIENSIS, February2/, 1985 Lookillg for student to bar- tend on , Saturday nights, possibly Friday night at Gravel Gerties on Van Vranken Ave. Please contact 370-4>220(w) or 372-7673(h). Housekeeper--Children's companion. Mature loving person to care for my home and sChool age children-15 hours per week during school year and 25 hours per week durillg summer. $5.00 per hour-own car required. Can 393-3260 on weekends after 6 p.m. or 370- 6259 during day. Student · to work every Sat. and Sun. between 4-8 hrs. each day. $4.00 an hr. plus mileage. General Maintenance . Location-Loudonviile. Please contact 456-6280. Evening telephone sales-- cash pay. For more information please call Kathy or Bill at 374- 1492 or 374-5372. Lookillg for student one af- ternoon weekly for household help. Near campus. Please contact 377-7235. CLASSIHEDS GOVERNMENT JOBS. $15,000- $50,000-yr. possible. Ail occupations. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R-6382 to filld out how. Graduate and undergraduate students interested in the growing impact of science and technology on society will have an opportunity to meet some of the world's leading scientists and technologists ill June. Student Pugwash, a rapidly growing student-run .forum organization,. will convene its fourth biennial International Conference, ''Science, Technelogy and Individual Responsibility\ at\ Princeton University, June 23-29, 1985. Ninety outstanding students from all disciplines and from · aroundthe world will be invited to spend the week considering critical issues ranging from ag r i cu 1 t u r a I genetic engineering to space-based weapons with eminent govern- ment officials, industrialists, scientists, and humanists. Student are selected for the Conference through a com- petitive application process; each application must include a draft abstract and outline for an originalpaper. Applications are available from : Conference Director, Student Pug wash (USA), 505B 2nd St., NE, Washington, DC 20002. The Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival is holding a national talent search for · its summer programs in Ballet and Jazz- Modern dance with local auditions in Pittsfield, Massachusetts on March 3, 1985 at Terpischore, 395 North IIi 11 ~~~ To All The Generous · I Participants of SOT's Make-A-Match DON'T FORGET The PARTY in the PUB on Tues., Feb. 26 II' at 10:00 p.m. You will receive your list of 10 matches • raffle drawing starting at 11:00 • Free popcorn • Cash bar Come and· MeetYour Matches All proceeds donated to the N ationa I Committee for the Prevention of Child Abuse ,, \' Street. BaHet auditions will be at 2 p.m. and Jazz-Modern at 4 p.m. For more information on the school, any ·of the programs or auditions, write to Norton Owen at Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, Box 287, Lee, MA 01238; or call 413-637-1322. Engaged? Save money-rent silk altar arrangements and bows for church pews-$35. CaU Gen at 399-7761. The Union College Arts Department Traditions of Improvisation series continues Friday, Feb. 22, with an evening of traditional and Highlife music of West Africa presented by Talking Drums. The concert is free and open to the public, and will begin at 7:30 p.m. in old Chapel. Student typing done-Please contact 470-5222. Mt. Pleasant ~rea. Typing done for students or Professors. Please contact 370- 0692. Niskayuna area. The dates for preliminary judging of the 1985 American Collegiate Talent Showcase (ACTS) Competition have been set for May 15-19, 1985 in Las Cruces, New Mexico at New M~xico State University. ACTS judges .represent some of the most prominent and well known companies in the entertainment industry. ACTS is open to full or part time college students in any performing entertainment category. Deadline for entries is April 15, 1985. For more in- formation contact: ACTS, Box 3ACT, New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, NM, 88003, (505) 646-4413. The Film Committee presents on 2-22-24 \Purple Rain\ at 7, 9 and 11. On 2-26 \Blazing Sad- dles\ at 7, 9, and 11. PERSONALS USA WAS DOIN' NAUGHTY Dear Paul, Bill, Doub and maybe Dave, Is it WAR or just a friendly battle? You shouldn't talk so loud, or we might hear- Albany will n.ever be the same. Love, the allied fo~;ces S.A. Thanks for the card! This is fun; but I'm stiU 'in the dark. No more dues?? Jen Dear 700 South ... Since I missed ''expetiencillg\ Cory last week I was wondering if you would rent him for me ... Please! Love always, Your stupid roomie who passed up a red-bikini man for an \important\ meeting. Dear Lydia (alias Skyd), ... Just when you thought your birthday was long gone ... we haven't forgotten you just yet...beware .. .love, the gang. Dearest Spark, Spike, Ted, Nuch, Koz, Jon ... Thanks for a memorable Valentine's Day! We love you almost as mush as we love Cory! No, seriously, you guys are the best! .. .love ya,. 700 WANTED: Union College males to participate in a social psychology experiment. It won't take long and would be of great help. If interested, please call Karen at 370-4>854. Magic User: This chick will not be toasted on Sunday! ! ! Thanx, Clarice? I'm so amazingly cool you could keep a side of meat in me for a month. Steak for dinner sometime soon. Failillg that, a Hershey's kiss sundae? Japan Term Abroad: To Koyasan and Friendships as long as our favorite ..... Compai! ! K.MAGS, I love you! I can't take it any more. Sitting ill PHIL., across the room from you is murder. I want to be with you, close to you. I'm done starillg at you. You didn't catch my drift, don't worry. You're forgiven. TRISH YOU DISH, . Have another. Can I come over and play with those balloons some time? Here, have a drillk. Loosen up for a· change. Right Murph? Beware of Mr. Big YOV KNOvJ;.GINDY; SoMEiHII<)G S BEEIIl B\JG61111 G t'lE •• · W11!:1Jt.VEF\, 5+!'1' AIVYTH IN(, 1\SOUT Sf)<, YOV ALWA.Y<::. S4Y 1 1 OI-l/ MY VI~G,\rJ E\A\5! 11 THflt'& 'ALL YcJv \S~>t Y! WtN oor/r You 1.\et..\:1 OIIGf. ~~: A 'fOUvHIN6 ~ LoVE. sroRY! urr ~r~ e. if\Jst A .s k \<a'J ..... FOR '1\ GIRL f,J rfl-1 Vl~~lr-1 E'I\RS I WHY FtR£. YOJ so I f -- _E.D IN t#C:. HS.AP?. _.,...,T HEY - c.o 1'\ e.. BAGk HERE! T f<.gSI'of.Jb iO ME. Pri'(SiuL.:..YJ LikE A.NY NOI?..t\.AL bl~l? :! OD t.1 i kNOW - :r 6V£SS X WAf. fl L rtil .. '\- f'() S H Y FOR A FI~<.ST DA\Tr;; J ) Page 13 T.P.. DD., You said you wanted a personal but did not mention about what. SO ... I'm going to. wing it. You're beautiful, illtelligent, and have gigantic, humongous, astronomically huge breasts. MARRY ME -Richard Boo Boo- New Fraternity? ReaBy? Wow, congratulations Fathers! Good Luck! Dear rna, I can't drive that car I spent 5 hard years working for because I don't have good enough grades according to the Student Forum. I won't be able to come home on weekends to take care of you and Gram any more. Sorry. THROAT OF THE YEAR NOMINATIONS: (Soph. Category) 1) JK 2) S(no can drive 4.0)1 3) RBoo 4) SP 5) JC (4 eyes) 6) Evan (only kidding) Only joking guys. You know we love you. I can't take it any more, you cuddly bear. I must have you very soon. Koz says you like me, so what's the problem Davie poo. I love You. STEPH. P.S. Flounder has to go. You're more like a mushy teddy bear anyway. Usa: Happy 21st birthday!!! Can you be my legal guardian? I don't know, can you?!!! Love ya always, Julie W&W: You finally made it! Happy 21st Birthday! ! ! ! ! ! Pretty soon, you'll be a twenty- one year old dub du duh ... M- W-!!!!! You're the best, best friend ever!!! ! ! Love ya lots & lots, .H&H No, No. I'm not a Benedict Arnold, a Quisling, a Petan, a Brutus to my dormmates. Really, I'm not a fair-weather friend, a summer soldier, a sunshine patriot, willing to stab my friends in the back. Really, really. The illdependents of Fox I can't saynothin', cuz I don't know nothin' about Lisa doin' naugl:lty. Homecoming '85 All students interested in helping with Homecoming Weekend (October 25-27) are invited to attend Homecoming Weekend on Thursday February28 4:30p.m. Banquet Room Carnegie Hall

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1985 UNION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITTEE & PROCTOR'S THEATRE PRES,ENT PYR Sunday, Feb. 24 • 8 p.m. Proctor's Theafr,e wah special guests: YRA D,RY JACK Tickets only $7.00 w/ Union I D Geberal PubHc--S12/S9 Spring Term Preregistration Procedures The procedures for preregistration have been changed .sub- stantially from those of the past. Each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. This preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Preregistration materials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Monday, February 25. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are in- dicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these co~ses will be posted by the relevant departments on Wednesday, · February 27. Students should sign the list to indicate an interest. Students should then return to the department on Friday, March 1 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those students admitted to a list course must secure a course reservation card from the department. NO QNE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A LIST COURSE WITHOUT A RESER- VATION CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. The date and time for each student's preregistration ap- pointment will be printed on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form., Students will be allowed to preregister ONLY AT THE ASSIGNED TIME or, for those who miss their appointment, on Friday, March 8 at the same time as their original appointment. Preregistration will conclude ·Friday, March 8 (no late preregistration will be permitted) and those who have not preregistered by the end of that day will be assessed a $25 fee. Further course changes may be made during .the Drop/ Add period starting Monday, Aprill. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their \Preregistration Course Request Form\ (this form must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the . courses they desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that their form is properly filled out and then see a staff member who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistration form and then see a staff member. It is hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten minutes at the most. Concordiensis Needs Photographers and Writers! If you want to learn how a college puts together a newspaper, come on up to the Concordy office, 4th floor Carnegie, on any Tuesday evening or Call x6155. COLLEGE SPRING BREAK * TRIP DATES * March 2·- March 9 March 9- March 16 March 16- March 23 March 23- March 30 March 30 - April 6 Apr1l 6 - Apr1l 13 BOOK EARLY! L1m1ted Hotel Space lh Ft. Lauderdale and Daytona Beach TOUR RATE INCLUDES: • Round Tnp Transportation v1il aw cond1t1oned·lavatory equ1pped motorcoach to Daytona Beach and Ft. Liluderdale • Convenient OepartUJ·e Po111ts. ASK ABOUT OUR YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT. R • YOU'VE EARNED IT .. ORANGE MOTORS CO. Call: DENNIS HURLEY, JR. 799 Central Ave., Albany, NY 489-5414 FLORIDA sggoo PLUS $20 TAX & SERVICE ROUND TRIP MOTORCOACH TRANSPORTATION 9 Days • 7 Nights fORT lAUDERDALE DAYTONA BEACH TRANSPORTATION: Round trip transportation is. available on our coaches. Motor· coaches depart from main bus terminal in major cities. Service is express making only food stops. ( Departure times and dates have been carefully planned to coincide with the check -in time of the hotels. Coaches depart on Friday and arrive back the following Sunday. Departure dates are: Mar.1 return Mar. 10, Mar. 8 return Mar. 17,Mar. 15. return Mar. 24, Mar. 22 return Mar. 31, Mar. 29 return Apr. 7, Apr. 5 return Apr. 14. Coaches are the most modern and up· Iodate models with reclining seats and are fully air conditioned and lavatory equipped for your comfort. ~ ctyve OUII 252·02 Norihern Boulevard • Little Neck. New York 11363 New York City Long Island 718-631-3800 516-222·0155 Westchester 914-997-j)l40 New Jersey 201-623·4868 I :

CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1985 Page 15 lmprov Series Continues ... African Rhythms By EMILY LOOSE Staff On Friday, February .22 at 7:30 in the Union Performing Arts Center the Talking Drums ensemble will perform a con- cert of traditional and popular West African music. The en- semble is comprised of both native Ghanian, and American musicians and dancers and the music performed will be a fusion, both of rhythm ami dance and of the indigenous West African currents with the innovations of western jazz derived from the traditional African rhythms. another. After initial pure percussion, the company takes up guitars, electric bass, synthesizer and moves into a fusion of that traditional rhyth- m with the western innovations derived from it. Then again the ensemble may retl:lFn in the midst of a more modern piece to a related traditional rhythm. THE ARTS l;{,j, :-*\':~ ' Accompanying the musicians are several dancers, barefoot and costumed in traditional African dress, who are led by the ensembles' dance director, Freeman Kwadzo Donkor, through a series of ceremonial, primitive, or more modern movements. Says Wes Brown, business director of the en- semble, \No matter where we -play, everybody dances. It's not that the music is familiar, it's just that the beat of the drums and the rhythm get to everyone.\ This audience participation is the ultimate realization of the indigenous African experience in which, as Maxwell A. Amoh, . the en- sembles' lead vocalist, ex- plains, \Music and dance cannot be separated ... There is no clear, distinction between the audience and the per- Ad.zinyah, the companies' founder and a native Ghandian, graduated from the Institute of African studies at the University of Ghana and toured internationally as a member of the Ghana Dance Ensemble. Subsequently he completed his B.A. qegree in music at the University of Vermont and his master's degree from Wesleyan University where he has been the director of the West African music and dance .program since 1969. Both Donker and Amoh have assisted Adzinyah at Wesleyan ,and both are also native Africans. Donkor, the grandson of .an Ewe priest, was the lead dancer of the Ghana Dance Ensemble. Filling out the ensemble are the Americans, David Bindman on saxophone, Oeter Chipello, on keyboard, Royal Haritgan on drums, Rob Lancefield on guitar, and Ben Manley on timbales and bells. The com- pany has performed at many colleges and universities in- cluding Wesleyan, of course, Brown, and Dartmouth as well as at clubs in Connecticut, where the company now makes its home, and in ~e~York_City such ·as the Sounds of Brazil nightclub this past November. In addition the company is currently sponsored by the Conn('!cticut Commission on the Arts st~te touring support program, Conntours, to per- form concerts around the state. Claudia Schneiderman, Walker Kennedy, Diana MacNeil, and Sean Greene in \Changes and Choices,\ the first of 3 dances performed by the Lewitsky Dance last Wednesday night at Proc- tor's. Dance Company Dazzles formers. Everyone par~ ticipates. \ · The ensembles' musicians are led by the master drummer, Abraham Kobenz Adzinyah, who selects the rhythm, be it A- kan, from the Guinea Coast, or Ewe, from Southeastern Ghana, with which the other drummers will blend or off which they will play. The beating of the drums is a communicative pulse through the music as it moves into more melodic or more modern moods, relating the musicians always back to the master drummer and to one The concert this Friday night is sponsored by the Union College Arts Department as part of this year's successful Traditions of Improvisation series conceived by Professor of Music, Hilary Tann, and is free to the public. Applications Deadline Summer Socialized Medicine Term is Friday. March 1 Applications are available in the Terms Al:)road Offi.ce, H U 211 By JOY RUNYON Staff Modern dance was sprung from the concept of ballet. Martha Graham and Isadora · Duncan were among the first to make the break and become dance renegades. Their works were considered at the time to be less than respectable dance. Today, however, with modern dance gaining more acceptance and recognition as a v:alid art form, there is more room for acceptable experimentation and detailed expression. Although respect from the general public is not a foremost concern of modern dancers, it is important to the endurance of the art in the public eye. And what an eyeful we received February 13, 1985, when the Bella Lewitzky Dance Company appeared at Proctor's! The company held nothing bqck in their performance of three Lewitzky pieces. The effect was electrifying. The first of the three dances was \Changes and Choices,\ performed by Daniel Albert, Amy Ernst,· Sean Greend, Nancy Lanier, Diana MacNiel, Laura McKirahan, Dav-id Plettner, Serena Richardson, Claudia Schneiderman, and Schenectady native Kurt Weinheimer. \Changes and Student Forum Office Hours Got a problem? Suggestion? Complaint? The Student Forum wants to hear~ Let your voice be heard by your representatives! Come to our NEW OFFICE on 4th floor Carnegie. It's worth the climb. . MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 1:30- Steve Beth Mary Andy Steve 2:30 Benson Bernell Phillips George Moss . 2:30- Sue Lynn Brian Shari Tom 3:30 Brand O'Brien Laux Midoneck Megerian 3:30 Doug Steve Dave Chris ' Julie ' 4:30 Landon Lipsky Marin Siler Mountain Choices\ was movement for the pure pleasure of movement. Some pieces in modern dance are choreographed in such a way that they will convey a meaning which the choreographer has chosen. \Changes arid Choices\ had no blatant overtones of desperate symbolism. Yes, there· were symbols of freedom, unity, and struggle present in this piece, yet Bella Lewitzky left the audience with the choice of either looking deeply into the piece for a meaning, or simply watching the piece and ex- periencing it in a personally aesthetic manner. Incredible energy--enough to equal General Electric's capacity- surged throughout the piece in every aspect: the dancers passing energy to each other's bodies, the other-worldliness of Larry Attaway's synthesizer music, the brightly colored adornments (which also func- tioned as a sort of set design) worn by the dancers and designed by Rudi Gernreich, the audience's amazement at the spectacle. The diverse audience was caught up in. the energy created by the dancers' athleticism _ as they romped, ran, tumbled, rolled, jumped, slithered, and fused symetrically and asymetrically across the stage. No boundaries of movement were not challenged by the Lewitzky dancers in this dance of energy incarnate. The second portion of the performance began with a slow, solemn piece of choreography called ''The Song of the Woman,\ a drastic change in the amount of energy. Amy Ernst performed this solo ef- fort. In this piece, we were made aware of modern dance's ties to ballet, as much of the movement was reminiscent of ballet. There was not the feeling of energy and challenging presence in \Changes and Choices,\ but of sadness and restriction. The music also was less intense in its energy, as there was a slow, dejected solo sung by Maurita Phillips- Thornburgh. In contrast to the strength of Lewitzky's first piece, \The Song of the Woman\ symbolized weakness and submission, out of character for Lewitzky, and slightly unbecoming in this choice of repertoire. It is unfair to the audience to suddenly plunge them into a numbing of feelings after such a vitality of life has been experienced. Perhaps the feeling would have been different had \The Song of the Woman\ been performed before \Changes and Choices,\ but this sequence of pieces was most unfair to the audience. \Sextet\ was the next piece to be performed by Diana Mac- niel, Laura McKirahan, Serena Richardson, Daniel Albert, Sean Greene, and Walter Kennedy. We were brought back to the same kind of syn- thesized music of which the audience has grown fond in \Changes and Choices,\ but this time with a more pastoral and relaxing quality. Con- sequently, the dancing was also more or less pastoral, characterized by undulating movements. The dancers shaped each other, melted together, separated, lost, moved, captured, and trium- phed. · As the New York Times music and dance critic E. Phillip Rosenfeld commented, \Physics does not apply to the theatre.\ This was made evident by the striking defiance of the laws of physics in last Wednesday's performance by the Lewitzky Dance Company. They have crafted their dance with the tools of improbability, surprise, transition, and in- credible movement . TRADITIONS OF IMPROVISATION All concerts at 7:30, Arts Department Rec1tal Hall, Union College, Schenectady. NY friday, February II, 1985 Introduction to the Music of West Africa with MaSter Drummer Abraham Kobina Adzinyah Free admission to concerts Information: (518) 370-6201 I 370-6202 P'rogrM'I ~ pos:stit ltMth grantt hom Ut'IO'I <.~Am Dfi:lM r'l'lfflt Internal fduc.&tJon Fo\indillon lloatd. lht Am CIW Of UfWOn !:oltQ:t. and the u~ COI'Vl'llttt-t

'- cv .c ::> '- (.!) cv > f1l 0 >- .c 0 ..... 0 J:: c. Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, Febn1ary 21, 1985 THE ARTS 11 Love Calls~'' a musical comedy starring Judy Harris, was presented at the Pub on February 14 as a special Valentine's Day show. Harris portrayed a frustrated woman w.ith a boring love life. To end her woes, she turned to a dating serive in hopes of finding her 11 true love .• \ The play recounted her experience through song and quick changes of costume. Harris' performance was cleverly done and very amusing. Wild West Whips Cabaret By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff The Union College Cabaret came alive on February 13th as the talented residents of West College took to the stage. Few Westies realized how musically inclined,scandalous,hurnnorous and unfunny their friends, floormates and RA's were and the night (spent in the company of dormmates) proved to be an enlightening experience. Mark Bernstein, serving as Master of Ceremonies, started the night rolling with a few of his characteristic jokes and proceeded to introduce the first act \They're Your RA's. Bearing the logo, \RA's DO IT ON THE FLOOR,\ Chris Siler, Steve Rothschild, Helene Caspe, Mark Bernstein, John \JD\ Donnelly and Georgia Sullivan performed an amusing musical enactment of their duties and experiences as West RA's. fered to sight read the piece on the piano and performed valiantly through the second page. \A Few Minutes with JD\ was the title of the act, yet JD had the audience laughing through its entirety. JD had the audience roaring as he recounted his experiences with Narma, a loft and being a TDX pledge. MC Mark Bernstein, finding himself having to duck flying pretzels, baskets arid other airborne paraphenalia, tried his hand at singing as he, along with Brad Oren, and Craig Wentworth, performed \I wish they all could be West College Girls.\ They sang to the familiar Beach Boys tune performed on guitar by Dave Provost. \Bernie's Boys,\ although possessing limited vocal talent, gained great female audience appreciation for their performance. rolling along, not to mention the extreme efforts of Mark, the MC. West Cabaret was planned and carried out by the West Hall Council who all should be commended for their efforts. Mark summed it all up, \It was a lot of un. Let's do it again next term.\ Forum •••. Continued from page 3 Committee report. At the request of the CoC, the Finance Committee froze the budgets of the six clubs failing to hand in . Club Status Reports: A mat- ching funds proposal for Garnet was turned down. Also, preliminary plans were made as to scheduling of the budgeting meeting. Lastly to be discussed was the Forum's gaining of an account on the VAX for word processing of their by-laws and minutes. Also, the members of the Commencement Committee were announced. They are seniors Bob Iannuci and Nora Kremmer, and Juniors Craig Fowler and Stacey Fassberg. Finally, following approval of last week's minutes, the meeting was adjourned. Weinheimer teaches masterclass ... D.ance Lesson By CAROL LEVY \Take offall baggy clothing,\ instructed Kurt Weinheimer as he surveyed· the dance room now filled with anxious Union faces. AH those trying to hide their candy-grams last Thur- sday inhaled a little harder and did as told. \The body is a dancer'·s instrument,\ ex- plained Kurt, \and must be seen despite Flashdance's fashionable trend .of loose cut- off T-shirts.\ Kurt Weinheimer, of the Lewitsky Dance Company, began his masterclass in the Arts Building with a warmup to enhance the full rise of the torse, curves of the spine, and displacement of the rib-cage. He also worked on weight placement using swings and drops. The geometric angles and lines created were new to many of the students, and proved to be a challenge for many. Next Kurt emphasized the importance of giving a smooth appearance by connecting different movements. He reminded the class that .running should be graceful and not merely a .preparation for a more complicated maneuver. The students glided across the floor in pairs, performing combinations of reverse turns and drops from a .suspended, perched position. Kurt used a little more dancy material and leg work . than Bella Lewitsky had in her previous master• class. Kurt Weinheimer is originally from Schenectady and taught ballet at the New School. He joined the Bella Lewitsky Dance Company in 1974, and was ambitious enough to ask if he could choreograph. The result was \Sextet .performed at Proctors and is one of only two pieces in the company's repertoire that Bella did not choreograph. Weinheimer acknowledges that his work reflects the style of his mentor either \because of association or because of a natural affinity for how she does things.'' In the future, Kurt anticipates · teaching at a university. As many who attended the masterclass will attest to, he . will be as successful a teacher as he is a dancer. .Campu~ Paperback Bestseller.s 1. ·Pet Sematary, by Stephen Kmg. (NAL!S1gnet. $4 50.) . ~l~g's_!atest horrC>r tale 1n papecbac~ 2. lnSearchoiExcellence, byT J.Peters&R H.WatermanJr. __ ~W·~~.:!.:_$R~5.) _A_Jool< at the secrets of successful bus~ness 3. Dune, by Frank Herbert. (Berkley. $3.95) F~rst book of the Dune series. Currently a mot1on p1cture - - - . 4. Poland, by James A. Michener (Fawcett. $4 50.) Apanoram1c view of 700 years of Poland's troubled h1story 5. The Far Side Gallery, by Gary Larson (Andrews. McMeef & Parker. $8.95) And st1ll more cartoo~s from the ··Far S1de· 6. Fatal VIsion, by Joe McG1nmss (NAL/Signet. $4 50 I Non- fiction account upon Wh1ch the recent TV spec1al was based 7. Living, Loving and Learning, by Leo Buscaglia (Fawcett. $5 95 ) Thoughts from the acclmmed Cal1forn1a professor - - - - - - . -- - - 8. Changes, by.Oanielfe Steel. (Dell. $3 95 1 Her latest romant1c novel-thiS time between doctor and anchorwoman. -- - 9. The Road Less Traveled, by M Scott Peck. (Touchstone. $8.95.) Psychological and sp1ntual mspirallon by apsych1atnst - - - -- --- - 10. In Search ofihe Far Side, by Gary Larson. (Andrews. McMeel & Parker, $4.~5.) More cartoons from the ··Far S1de··. ------------- -- New & Recommended My Search for Warren Harding. by Robert Plunket (Dell/Laurel. $3.95) A widly tarcial tale. full of low comedy. h1gh camp. man1c character study, academic parody, soc1omorals and packed w1th hilanous surpriss. Lei the trumpet Sound, by Stephen B Oates (NALIMentor. $4.95.) The life of Martin Luther Kmg, Jr A b1ography not only full of drama, but of the real King, h1s bravery. hiS tnumph. hiS pain and his doubts Filly·Sevell ReasoM nollo Have a Nuclear War, by Marty Asher (Warner. $4.95.) 57 draw1ngs by Lonm Sue Johnson of good thi ngs.m life. i.e. ice cream, beach balls. etc The crowd's anticipation and curiosity grew as Mark in- troduced the long· awaited \Harmonious Blow\ performed by Helene and Georgia. This particular act had gotten quite a bit of prior publicity, yet its actual contents had never been revealed. The audience buzzed as Helene and Georgia systematically arranged liter Coke bottles and began to \blow.\ The result--perfect renditions of \Do-a-Deer \Happy Birthday\ and for the final harmonious blow ... \Mary Had a Little Lamb.\ No one in ~he audience had even a clue as to the multi-talentedness of our RA's. Jeff Carstens, musical pride of 2nd floor, pounded out a wide variety of tunes on piano. His most well received tunes in- cluded Billy Joel's \Scenes From an Italian Restaurant,\ \I've Loved These Days\ and \She's Always a Woman to Me.\ Jeff's musical abilities were well appreciated by members of the audience who urged him to play an encore. Look for Jeff at Cabaret again in the Spring. \Gardner's Surprise\ was next on the agenda, and the most surprised were the RA's when they realized what Gardner had in store for them. The RA's were portrayed and identified by their most widely known characteristics. Steamy Jazz at Proctor's Chris, another multi-talented RA, entertained the audience with her witty humor and forceful singing voice. Her humor included a recountment of how her ineptness with the metric system was cured by examples provided by JD. She skillfully swung the act to a more serious tone with a brilliant musical performance. Many in the audience werEl not aware that Chris possessed such talent. Her performance added a new dimension to West Cabaret. Mark, filling in the gaps between acts with jokes, in- troduced the violin and flute duet performed by Howie Fiedler and Joanne Berger. Cathy Markes graciously of- The last to perform, but by no means the least talented, was Dave Provost. Dave sang and played songs which included \Friend of the Devil,\ \Ohio and \Good Lovin\' as well as many original songs. His ac- complished voice and intricate guitar work captivated the audience through the serious songs and had them clapping and singing along to the upbeat tunes. The audience just couldn't get enough .of Dave as they forced him onstage for an encore performance. . The West College Cabaret could be considered nothing less than a success. The intricate balance between humor and musical ability kept the show Spyro Gyra, the sensational Buffalo-born group of jazz fusion exponents, will come to Proctor's Theatre, Schenec- tady, on Sunday, February 24th at 8:00 p.m. Jazz Fusion, a musical form integrating horns and woodwinds with the typical rock quartet, gives birth to a whole environment of new sounds. It is an eclectic cross- section of musical trends revealing a wide range of in- fluences: Funk, Reggae, Salsa, Rhythm and Blues, to name a few. Spyro Gyra's story begins in Buffalo in 1975, when ban- dleader-saxophonist Jay Beckenstein started the group with an old friend as a creative outlet for himself and other musicians who s~nt most of their time on more commercial ventures. Since then, the septet has made seven highly diver- sified and highly successful albums the most recent of which, Access All Arms, has been honored with a Cash Box .Jazz Award in 1984. The group, composed of Jay Beckenstein (alto-soprano sax), Eli Konifoff (drums), Gerardo Velez (percussion), David Samuels (marimba), Chet Catano (guitar), Tom Schumann (keyboard), and Kim Stone (bass) has toured extensively, including dates in the Kook Jazz Festival at New· York's Avery Fisher Hall and at the Saratoga Perfonning Arts Center last swnmer. Founder Beckenstein ex- plains their music: \essentially the music is jazz in that our emphasis has always been on improvisation and the focus is on instrumentalists. We. use the harmonic and rhythmic language of jazz, but we've never hesitated to in- corporate those other influences you hear in our music, whether it's Rock, R.&B., Latin, or whatever else felt right. It has been our hope all along that we could be. both cerebral and visual, musical and emotional, serious but still have fun.\ The opening act for Spyro Gyra will be performed by Dryjack, a Woodstock, New York-based five piece jazz group with a female lead singer. Dryjack is touring extensively on the college circuits. The appearance of Spyro Gyra is being sponsored by the Union College Concert Com- mittee and QBK-FM, Albany. Tickets are on sale now at $12.00 and $9.00, for non-Union students, and $7.00 for Union students.

:- c - . (; - - -~ rr: 0 .,_ ~ 9 0 .c Q_ Pagel6 ~:13 Vi s W!l5biii ............... 'mtAfiiditii!!i CONCORDIENSJ.S: February 21. 1985 THE ARTS l i 1 , .. Love Calls.\ a musical comedy starring Judy Harris, was presented at the Pub on February 14 as a special Valentine's Day show. Harris portrayed a frustrated woman with a boring love Hfe. To end her woes, she turned to a dating serive in hopes of finding her \true love.\ The play recounted her experience through !long and quick changes of costume. Harris' performance was deverly done and very amusing. Wild West Whips Cabaret By KIMBERLY HANCOCK • Staff The Union College Cabaret came ali\'e on February l:~th as the talemed residents of West College took to the stagf'. Few Westws realized huw rnusicallv inclined, scandalous, humorous and unfunnv thPir friends. f1oorrnates ai1d HA · s wen• and the night 1 spent in the eompany nf dornunates 1 proved to be an enlightening expenence. :\1ark Bernstem. sernng as :\1aster of Ceremomes. started the night rolling with a fpw of his characteristic jokes and proceeded to mtroduce the first act \Thev're Your RA's. Bearing the logo. \RA 's DO IT o:-.; THE FLOOR,\ Chris Siler. Steve Rothschild. Helene Caspe, :viark Bernstein. John \JD\ Donnelly and Georgia Sullivan performed an amusing musical enactment of their duties and experiences as West RA's. fered to sight read the piece on th£> piano and performed \'aliantly through the second pilge. .. A Few :V1mutes with ,JD\ was the t itl£> of the act. vet .JD had the audience laughing through Its entiretv. JD had the audience roariilg as he rrcounted his t>Xperiences with :\orma. Cl loft and bemg a TDX pledge. :VIC' \1ark Bernstein. finding h1mself hanng to duck f1ymg pretzels. baskets and other atrborne paraphenalia, tried his hand at sin~~ing as he. along with Brad Oren. and Craig Wentworth. perfom1ed \I wish they all could be West College t~irls.\ Th('y sang to the familiar Beach Bovs tune performed on guitar by Dave Provost. .. Bernie's Bovs,\ although possessing limited vocal talent. gained great female audience appreciation for thetr performance. rolling along, not to mention the extreme efforts of :\lark. the :viC West Cabaret was planned and carried out bv the \Vest Hall Council who all should be commt•nded for their efforts. :Vlark sununed 1t all up. \[t was a lot of un. Let's do it again nPxt tern1. .. Forum ~ G G Continued from page 3 Committee report. At the request of the CoC, the Finance Conm1ittee froze the budgets of the six clubs failing to hand in Club Status Reports. A mat- ehing funds proposal for Garnet was turned down. Also. preliminary plans were made as to scheduling of the budgeting meeting. Lastly to be discussed was the Forum's gaining of an account on the VAX for word processing of their bv-laws and minutes. Also. the. members of the Commencement Committee were announced. Thev ar£> seniors Rob Iannuc1 and Nora KrPnml£'1', and Juniors Craig Fowler and Stacey Fassberg. Finally. following approval of last week's minutes. the Ifll'Ptltle was ad]ourrwd Dance Lesson RyCAROLLE\'Y \Take off all baggy clothing,\ instruct£>d Kurt Weinheimer as ht' surveved the dance room now filled with anxious Union faces. All those trying to hide their candy-grams last Thur- sdav inhaled a little harder and did· as told. ''The bodv is a dancer's instrument.~' ex- plained Kurt, \and must be seen despite Flashdance's fashionab!(' trend of loose cut- off T -shirts.\ Kurt Weinheimer. of the Lewitsky Dance Company, began his masterelass in the Arts Building with a warmup to enhance the full rise of the torse, curves of the spine, and displacement of the rib-cage. He also worked on weight placement using swings and drops. The geometric angles and lines ereated were new to many of the students. and proved to be a challenge for many. Next Kurt emphasized the importance of giving a smooth appearance by connecting different movements. He 1 Pet Seomd1ary. · 2 In SE'arch of E xcellenct> · . ' 3 Dune ·. · . .. 4 Poland · • ' . :. • f .A • ,. •' ,. 5 The Far Stdt? GaiiE\ry • ; ..... .. ;, . . 6 Fatal V•s•on. · . · ~: , 7 ~1v1~9 :ovmg and l~arnmg 8 C hangE>s - , , , , . • • \ ·- • .. ' • f . ~ • •• • ' 9 The Road Less Traveled : . •: ~ ·- -~· ~ . . . ~ d I' ' , 10 !nSearchof1heFarS•de :. remmded thP elass that running should be graceful and not merely a preparation for a more complicated maneuver. Thf' students glided across the floor in pairs, performing combinations of revers£> turns and drops from a suspended, perched position. Kurt used a litt!C' more daney material and leg work than Bella Lewitsky had in her previous master- class. Kurt Weinheim£>r is originally from Schenectady and taught ballet at the New School. He joined the Bella Lewitsky Dance Company in 1974 and was ambitious enough to ask if he could choreograph. The result was ''Sextet,'' performed at Proctors and is one of onlv two pieces in the company's repertoire that Bella did not choreograph. Weinheimer acknowledges that his work reflects the style of his mentor either \because of association or because of a natural affinitv for how she does things.\ · In the future, Kurt anticipates teaching at a university. As many who attended thC' masterclass will attest to, he will be as successful a teacher as he is a dancer. :. . . My Search tor Warre-n Hardmg. : . ·· · ,-·' · ~ . •- ;. II, : • ' t' I • • • .. •. ',;·' . ':. ' . · .. I' • ,·. L ~t the Trumpet Sound I ~ • ~ • • • • • I \ • • ' ' .. F•fly·Seven Aeasons not lo Hav\' .1 Nuclear War :. , .. ' ' s: .. . '... . t, ' ' '• t' The crowd's anticipation and curiosity grew as :Y.lark in- troduced the long awaited \Harmonious Blow\ performed by Helene and Georgia. This particular ad had gotten qu1te a bit of prior publicity, yet 1ts actual contents had never been re\'eal£>d. Thf' :mrlienc£> buzzrd <I\ Ht>lt'TH' <trld c; .. or gut ~ystt_•ntat]('ally arranged litl'r !'okl' bott!Ps and lwgan to \blow ... The n•sult--prrfed rt'nd1t10ns of · ·no-<-~-Deer.\ \Happy Btrthday\ and fur the final harn 1onious blow ..... \1ary Had a I.tttk Lamb.\ :.;r1 orw 111 Jeff Carstens, musical pride of 2nd floor. pounded out a wide variety of tunes on piano. His most well received tunes in- cluded Billv .Joel's \Scenes From an Italian Restaurant.\ \l've Lo\·ed These Davs\ and \She's Alwavs a Woinan to \1e.\ .Jeff's 'rnusieal abilities wrre well apprl't'iated by :I It'll Jlwr~ of tht> <tlH!i PTH'!' who ur.C:l'd h1m to play an encon·. Look for .Jrff at Cabaret agam 1n the Spring ··<;arrlrll'r·s Surprise\ was next lin thl• agenda. and the most surprist•d W('re th£> HA 's whl'n th!'\' realiwd what (;ardner tw(l Ill ston• for tht>rn. Tlw H:\'s Wl'rt' p01irayed and trll'nttfll'd b\· thPtr most wHidv known ( lwraderistit·s. · Steamy Jazz at Proctor's · ht· audit•nn· had t'\'t•n a dut• as <tl tht· rnulti-ta!Pntt>drwss uf our !{:\'~. ( 'hns. anothtT rnult t-ta!Pntt·d !{:\. PntertainPd tht· aur!ti'IH't' 11 !th lwr Wltll llll!llor ;md fu!'l'l'flll Sllll'llll.! \lll('t' Ht•J hllrnur !lit ·lurkd a rt't 'lllllltlllt'lll \f ho\.\ lwr uwptm·s\ \\ 1tL ttw ::,drw \\ s!Prn wa:-; ,·un•d hv t·xarnph·~ prt,\'l<lt-d h~ .If) Sl:\' ·killfully -.,Wllfl<' tlw ad tn <t !1.<•!'\' '-t'I']OIJ' (IIIII' With d !JrJ!!Iant !llllS!t'al [H'rfllnll<ITH'I' \bt;~ m t!w audwrHT \\t'rt' 11111 ;man· that C'hri-. pos>.PSSl'd '-lH h t;;i•·nt fltT perforrr.<tlltl' ;tdr!f•d :t fll• \\ dirrH'IlSIOrl to W ('.~t Cabaret :\1ark. flll1nh m th(' J.;aps between acts with jokes. in- troducf'd the violl.n and flute duet performed by Howie Fiedler and .Joanne Berger Cathy Markes graciously of- Tht• l<tSI to rwrfonn. but hy no 111t·ans the !Past ta!Pntt>d. was Dan· l'rovost D;n·t· sane ;md playt-d :--o1111:s winch uwludPd · Frtl'nd t ,f tht· Dt·1·1l. .. \OI11o.\ arvl \Cnod l.onn\' :ls wpJI as rrt<IIIY uriglllal son~s Ills ;w- ('IH!lpltslwd vnict• and tntril'att· C:llltar wurk \'<tptl\ a ted tht' andit>nn· through thr ser1011s \\IH'S <tnd had ttwm r lappmg and Sllli.'ITlg along to tlw upbeat lll!ll'S ThP audierHc just r ()llldrd get rnou~~h of Dan· as the\· for('cd h1m onsta14t> for an t'tl( .. ()ff' rwrfonnan('!' The West College Cabaret could be considered nothing less than a success. Tht> intricate balance between humor and musical ability kept the show Spyro (~y ra. thP spnsatlonal Buffalo-horn group of jazz fus1on I'Xporwnts. Will come to Proctor· s Theatre. Scht•m•c- tady, on Sunday. FPhruary 24th at ll:OO p.m . .Jmz Fusion. a muswal form integral ing horns and woodwmds with tlw t~·p1cal rock quartd. g1n•s btrth t\ a who lP t • n \'I r o nm P n t 11 f rt e w \ounds It 1s an Pckdw cross- sel'!ldn of rnuslf·al trPnds rt'\'l':thnl.! <i \\ide range pf 111- fi Ul'lll'l'S: Funk. He.;gat>. Sa !sa. Hh~·thlll and Hhll'S. In IJ:!Tilt' a fPW. Sp)To (;yra · s story bt>gms 111 Buffalo 111 197:1. wht'rl ban- dll'ader-sa xophorust .Jay Bt•ckenstem started the group with an old friend as a rreative outlet for himself and other musicians who spent most of their time on more corrunercial ventures. Since then, the septet has rnadt• Sl'\'t'll hl!.;hh dn·t•r- \lfil'd and h1ghh stiecpssful album~ tlw most l'l'Cent of wiuch. ..\l'l't•ss All Arms. has bt>en lwnorPd wrth a C'ash Bux Jan ,\\' ard 111 I !l84. Tlw group. ('ompnsed of .Jay BPekenslt'in 'alto-<..oprano sax 1, Eli Kunifoff 1 dnun:-; 1, (;t•rardt' \\l'!pz 'fll'rl'Ussion 1, David SamuPls 'milrunha '· Chet < 'atctllu gu1tar 1, Tom Schur11ann 'kt·yb\ard 1, and Kim Storw 1 bass 1 has tourPd ('Xtensin·ly. uwluding datl's m thl' Kuok .Jau Fl•stival at \t•w York· s t\ n·ry Fisher flail and at the Saratoga Performing Arts (\•ntPr last srnmm·r Foundn Bl'C'kPnstein ex- plains their mus1c: '\essentiallv the music is jazz in that ou·r emphasis has always been on unprovisation and the focus is on instrumentalists. We use the harmonic and rhythmic l<m1:uagl' of jazz. but Wt'.\'P never ht>sitatcd to in- corporate thost' other mflm·rH·t•s vou hear in our lllttSil'. wht'lhl'r it's Hock. IL&B., Latin, or what!'\'l'r Plse felt right It has bt>('n our hop(' all alonl.! that wt· ('ould tw both r·erebra l and \\lstwl. lllllSit'al and Plltotional, SPril)us but still ha\'l' fun .. Tht> opt'!llllg ad for Spyrn r.,\ra wtll bl• pt·rfonw·d b~ Dryjal'k, a Woodstock. \ew Y ork-bast>d five pll'l't' J<lZZ group with a ft>ma!P )pari singPr. Dryjadt 1s t(luring ('XtPnsiH'ly on the eollege circuits. The appearant'£' uf Spyrn Gyra IS being sponson•d by till' Union College Concert Com- mittee and QBK-FM. Albany. Tickets are on sale now at $12.00 and $9.00, for non-Union students, and $7.00 for Union students.

. CONCORDIENS/S, February 21, 1985 FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT . 11'- Phone: 393~5440/393-5441 Hours: sun-Th~ll:J0-10:00 Specialize in Cantonese, Fri-sanl :30-11 :oo Closed Mondays \ Szechuan & Hunan . Take out or Eat Jn We prepare our foods with . • . Just a Little Bit of Lsck and a Whole Lot o_f experience We're in Walking Distance 10% Student Discount for lake Out Orders Only W /Student I.D. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn . GOFORTHE GOLD. You've just about com~ pleted one big challenge- your degree. Ready for the next? Go for the gold. The gold bars of a Second Lieu-- tenant in the Army. Pnge 17 'ee_n_a_a_D_b_anaa-a-a.a·a-o..-a_a_lt_DWW -~~-•-aWiJ_a.._a._a_a uaaa-IJoeliiiiiCIIilla- -u-ai'?D • It's no picnic. O.C.S. (Officer Candidate School) is a 14~weekchallenge that will make you dig deep inside yourself for mental and physical toughness. Wh~n you come out, you'll be trim, fit, a commissioned officer in the Army, and ready to exercise the leadership skills civilian companies put such a premmm on. , The Philosophy Department is pleased to announce its annual .essay com- petitions for the Celia Glaubach Prize and the Milton Sternfeld Prize. Th.e Glaubach Prize is awarded to the student who has shown an interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from a secular point of view by sub- mitting the winning entry on one of the following subjeds: literary and textial criticism of Biblical subjects; development and production of a short story or pl.ay based on the Bible; Biblical-archaeology; Bibl·ical historicity; philosophy of the Bibl.e. The Milton Hymes Sternfeld Prize is awarded ''for the best original essay in philosoptw by a member of the. senior dass. 11 Students who wish to compete for either of t.hese prizes should submit their entries pseudonymously to Mrs. Marianne Snowden in Humanities 215 no later than March 22, 1985. Please indicate which competition ·the essay is intended for, and accompany the entry with a sealed envelope bearing the pseudonym, and containing the author's name and campus address. The two competitions will be judged by appropriate committees of faculty members, with winners to be announced on Prize Day, Saturday, 11 May, 1985. The prizes may not be awarded if no worthy entries are received .. '. Your Bahamas College Week Includes: Go for the gold. 34 Jay St. {518) 382-1741 Schenectady ARMY. BE ALLYOU CAM BE. Sociology Internships Spring • Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add-$50.00 Double add $100.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for be.llman, chambermaids an<;l poolman • College Week activities-sports, parties, music, fun. Term Media Urban Planning Health Care Probation Department .Law, Order, Justice Community Services Family Services Special Education and others Orientation Meeting March 6 Wednesday Social Sciences Lounge at 4:30p.m. see Professor Kaplan (6233) Sociology 61 Course Credit Hotel Options ' Nassau-Add $25.00 for deluxe Cable Beach Inn, add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel. SPACE FILLING <IP FAST --BOOK NOW!!U! ----------------·-·--·-·--· Our undergraduate· officer commissioning program gives you the opportunity to get more than a B.A or B.S. It gives you a chance to get a career slatted plus: • Earn $100 a month during the school year • Lets you take civilian flying lessons II As a freshman or sophomore, lets you complete your basic training during two six-week summer sessions • Lets you get in line for one of our graduate programs as a junior . · So, if you're .looking for a chance to lead, check out the Marine Corps undergraduate officer pro- gram. You could start off making more ~~~ than $17,000 a year -~=:.. from the start Earn a de~ in leaderShip. See Captain W.W. Donahoe, Jr. at the Campus Center between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on 4 & 5 Mar. 85 or call l- 800-342-2408. F lliii~·~\IGe 212·355-4 705/800-223-0694 (reservations only) I ~ 1 Bahamas College Weeks 1 INitR . :n: 0 Feb 23-Mar 02 0 Apr 6-Apr 13 I 0 May 18-May 25 I 0 Mar 02-Mar 09 0 Apr 13-Apr 20 0 May 2.5-.June 01 HOliDAYS INC. 0 Mar09-l'\ar 16 0 Apr20-Apr27 0 JuneOl-JuneOa 1 501 Madison Avenue 0 Mar J6-Mar23 0 Apt-27-May04 0 June08-June 15 Now Vorl<, NY 10022 0 Mar 23-Mar JO 0 /llay 04-May 1 1 0 June l 5-.June 22 I Ch..:k On<!: 0 Mar 3~Apr 6 0 /llay 11--May 18 I 0 FREEPORT 0 NASSAU Otwpancy (Sat. departu\\) (Sat. departu~) 0 Qu&d 0 T~ [)Double I 0 Sounds good. I've checked the wed! I wont to party and -a $100 deposit. I 0 Send Brochure mNAAM<E------------------~~~--------------- : MRQO~M~~~T~~--------------------------------- : ~~~--~~--~---=~====-------------- I ADDRESS DEPARTURE OTY I • em STATE ZIP PH NO I • • All prl<eq plus JS'll> tax and servtcu. IC.mpus Rep/Offlce J ~ I Price b<osed on departures from New York & Boston. (Add $20 from I &llimore •nd $40 from PM&deiph>O). I Eoch traveler must fill out sepoRlte form. ~-·····-·--·--·--·-····-·-·--·'

s r [\ CONCORDIENSIS, Februarr 21, 1985 Pagt.· 17 -CIIIiUEI._CI_D_D_II ___ Q_D:IBII- 1-11181_1_11 -·-·-·- II_D_C!I_D_e_ ISIAD-~ai&O_Q_J a• ~ -d- Cl-11- Q«aa . FOlJ!!,o~!:Jfa~~~~fl!l~fS!au~~~~~ ~~~T~ Specialize m Cantonese Frr sat 11.30-11. oo ' Closed Mondays Szechuan & Hunan Take Out or Eat In We prepare our foods with .•. Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot Q{ experience We're in Walking Distance 1 0% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student I.D. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn ID .. r-~-DiiB!I~U.DofJIIIOft'I&(.I,_R_QialiJG-08iiiQ ... a8lilla_Q_Q_QS&UDrAIIIII'ti'-QWP.,._Il~I:I-D t¥•D-cM!IDDI8iB'O The Philosophy Department is pleased to announce its annual essay com petitions for the Celia Glaubach Prize and the Milton Sternfeld Prize. The Glaubach Prize is awarded to the student who has shown an interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from a secular point of view by sub mitting the winning entry on one of the following subjects: literary and textial criticism of Biblical subjects; development and production of a short story or play based on the Bible; Biblical archaeology; Biblical historicity; philosophy of the Bible. The Milton Hymes Sternfeld Prize is awarded \for the best original essay in philosophy by a member of the senior class.\ Students who wish to compete for either of these prizes should submit their entries pseudonymously to Mrs. Marianne Snowden in Humanities 215 no later than March 22, 1985. Please indicate which competition the essay is intended tor/ and accompany the entry with a sealed envelope bearing the pseudonym/ and containing the author/s name and campus address. The two competitions will be judged by appropriate committees of faculty members/ with winners to be announced on Prize Day/ Saturday/ 11 May/ 1985. The prizes may not be awarded if no worthy entries are received. Your Bahamas College Week Includes; GOFORTHE GOLD. )~ lll.\'l' JUSt ;lhl 1llt (l 1[11- plt•tt'ti one hig challt·ngl' - \'1 1ur dt'grt't'. Re;hlv tl 1r the r1t'x r ' ( ;l) t\t 1r tl1t' g()ki The gt 1lll hars t 1( ;J St'Ct ltH.l Lrt'll- !t'Il.l!1! 111 rl1L' Arm\' Ir':-. rll) r~rcnic 0 C S !( !tt\Ict·r ( :;mllilLHt' Sd1nniJ i~ ,! 14-\\'l't·k ch;dk·n~l' rh;H \\'Ill rn;1h· \l llJ lli!.; lleq\ in-.;illt' \'t lllr...,t·!t t~ 1r rnt'!ltal ;mJ f~l1\':-.t..-;d !1 lll!_!h l1t'\\ \\'ht'rr \\llll-tll11t' \llrt. \'llll'll ht' trim. t\!l. ,! l-~ \fllll1b .... il ll1t'll ( )tt\iccr in rht· :\rmv.anlf rt';lllv ttl t'\t'rl·i~l' tht•lt·;Ilkrshq\' skills l·r\·ili:m Ctli11[1;lf1it'~ put such ;1 !\'rL·rnru n1lll1. ( ~l 1 t~ 1r r he L;nkL 34 Jay St. (518) 382-1741 Schenectady ARMY. BEALL YOU CAN BEa Sociology Internships Spring Term Media Urban Planning • Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas ~ 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add-$50.00 Double add $100.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for bellman. chambermaids and poolman • College Week activities-sports, parties. music, fun. Health Care Probation Depo:grtment L©'lWu Order, Jystuce Community Services family Services Special ~ducation and others Orientation Meeting March 6 Wednesday Social Sciences lounge at 4:30 p\m\ Hotel Options Nassau-Add $25.00 for deluxe Cable Beach Inn. add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel. SPACE FILLING OP FAST-- BOOK NOW!!!!! Our undt'rgr.tduate nfficl'r mmmis.,ioning progr.m1 gr\t'~ 1ou !lw opporllmil\ to gt·t lllllrt' than a lL\ or 1\ S II 1.!1\t'\\ ~ou .t dtJJtu· to gl't .1 C.l.nW ,l.tf!t'tl plu~ II brn $100 amofllh dunng !ltt' ~di!HJI \t~JJ· ill fA'!., 1ou ukt· m1han 01mg It\-\''\' · II \.' J fn':'>hiii.Ul or ~ophomon·. let' mu rornplt·tt· ~our h~Lw tr.un111g during mo ~1\·V.t·t·k \lllllflll'r \t'\Sl! >II~ 11!1 l~·t' \fill .gl'l 111 IHJ(' for out• of our grJdoalt· pmgr.uw• a.' a Jlllltor So. 1f ~otfn· lookmg for a dt.JIIU' to lt·.ul. du·i:k out !lll' .'11arint· Corp~ undt·rgr.llhtalt' officer rro· , . grJJ!l You rould ~Uri off m.ilimg nit >rt' ....;~::?.'..,. tlJan $1-.000 a lt~tr .'-\ -,-'\0~ from [}I(' ~ttrt fj ~.'·; ~ .~ Ui·ir k~tlkin~ Jiq a Ji.·•wr.,~~tld mm. '' ,, r ·-------------------------- f .... ~ei\'G\ 212·355-4705/800-223..()694 (reservations only) ~ p,... 1 - Bahamas College Weeks M NIR CCli.UGUU Fdl2J-Mar02 : Apr&-1\p< lJ May J8-May25 1'1 Mar 02-Mar 09 'Apr 13-Apf 20 May 25-June 01 il I+OliOAYSINC fo\ar0'}-1'\ar 16 · Ap<20-Apr27 J\\\'OI-Ju II 'i01 Mad\on Avt\nuP Mar 16-Mar 23 , 1\.pr 27-l\'ay 04 June 08-June 1 5 tl New Yo\ NY 10071 Mar 23- Mar JO . 1'\.ay 04-/t\ay II J~ I S.·-June 22 B r h..,,. r he Mar 30-1\p< 6 May 11-M<>y 18 g Ff..'f F p.-,wr to.'.',.,ACJ rk \\~\\n.; • .....,, df\f.. ... ~.. ..,.,, :lrt.., ........... , I-..J\¥Jel ! •• ~ , .. Jo,hlf' D Soon<h go.tx1 1·~~,. '~. kf\d !t'w' u.ffk l cvanr tu p&rt.,. .tf\(j Nl< toy.d 1t I. 100 M~t O Sf'rld 8nl4\ huno fj i :·.-~-- · ... ., ~ !'11 .... , .... , : - ~ ~ 0 iJ -~~~· '~ ~~··· B m • .&.II prlt: \''plus II)'>(, I&• ar-...1 !\\I\Vk r1 ~ I'Hlfli'rt. ~l\f··' Jtt.,,. fiJI ~- ..... ~....,.,._! ... , ...... ~.._,,. ,, ..... j.,..., g ~ ., .. ,.,. •·•d•:' f\<,.,1,.,. Ar1•: .. ,, 1 \\\ I {J E\&J·\\•!,.. ~,,.. S.1L'• ~'t.,v,.~.t'IJ'l' I f1 f_l!ICf, t ... ~ .. lp· OT, ... , '•1'-JU' -.....-~...,,,,,. \.tr''' L ' ; u 1'11111111lEl m • m:J au ell DJRIJ'i!l £:;~ rm tl!N m tm CliJ re:.1 fiiiil ~ !i!J 1m1 liOi ~~·~ Jl

Page 18 CONCORDIENSJS, February 21, 1985 SPORTS .. . sink St. Rose W Swimmers Win Dutchwomen Fare Well At U-nion lnvy. By SPORTS STAFF The women's swim team closed the season on February 12 with a smashing victory against the College of St. Rose. Union took .first in every event except the 50 Fly, and the final relay, which they swam as an exhibition event. Jennifer Whalen placed first in the 50 Breaststroke, and added in points with a third in the 100 free. Trish Bowering won the 100 free, as well as the 50 free and 100 breaststroke. Betsy Boutwell swam well, with firsts in the 1000 free, 50 free, and 100 backstroke. The score built even more with Lisa Freed's victory in the 500 free, 100 IM, and 50 Back. Finally, Lynn Hano placed third in the 50 Bre<\Lststroke while Donna Gardiner captured second in the 50 back and the 50 fly. Personal times were low, with Jennifer doing her best times ever. The final tally was 65 to 43, a fine way to end a season. Additionally, the N.Y. State Championship meet was held this past weekend at Colgate University. The Union team consisted of Betsy Boutwell, Trish Bowering, and Lisa Freed. There were over 200 competitors, including swim- mers f·rom a few Division II schools. Betsy and Trish both com- peted in the 50 freestyle event, with Betsy doing her best time ever. There were 90 swimmers in.Jihe event, so Tricia's overall placing of 53rd in the State is quite respectable. Lisa also swam the 50, as well as the 500 free, the 200 free and the 100 backstroke. Her swim in the 100 back qualified her for the consolations that night, and her time there placed Lisa in 20th . overall. The State Meet went really well, and left everyone very excited for next year and the opportunity to do even better! By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff A large contribution to the success of the Union women's track team was accomplished at the fourth annual Union Women's Invitational on Saturday as seven members of the Dutchmen lady tracksters qualified for the upcoming State Meet. As a team, the women collected enough points to place second, their best finish ever at this meet, behind the Williams women. Williams scored 144 points to Union's 62. Third place was occupied by Hartwick with a distant 33. The Dutchmen acquired two first places, both from the relays. In the two-mile relay the 4x800 meter quartet clocked a time of 10:46. Competing in this relay were Nora Tuthill, Jenny Lee, Cindy Curtis, and Michele Vuolo. In the mile relay the Union foursome of quarter milers scored a dramatic come- fun for all see- play 'J·., RA(E NI.TE I 1 1 ·-- Thorobred racing e on film CHI PSI LODGE Saturday, February 23 Post Time: 11:00 p.m. Dancing • Games & Refreshments Basketball Continued from page 19 This brought both exhausted teams into the fifth overtime. Rochester grabbed a quick four point lead 96-92 and held onto it until Tom Beck hit two free throws to cut the lead to 96-94 with 1:41 remaining. Neither club scored for the following 54 seconds, until Union's Tim Diemoz hit a foul shot to cut' the Yellowjackets' lead to one. However, the Dutchmen would not get any closer, as both teams would each score three more points. The loss was a heartbreaking one for the Dutchmen as they had battled a tough. Rochester team for 65 minutes on their home floor. This, as one can see, was no ••• ordinary game. The contest consisted of five overtime periods that lasted 3 1-4 hours, in which: 11 players fouled out, 6 players from each team scored in double figures, 114 rebounds were recorded, and surprisingly only 25 turnovers committed. Leading the Dut- chmen attack was Ken D'Orazio with 20 points, 16 rebounds, and 3 blocked shots. Following D'Orazio was Ken Levine (17 pts., 4 reb., 11 assists), Rob Parento (14 pts., 4 assists), Kevin Bartlett (12 pts., 6 reb.), Kurt Fox {12 pts., 6 reb.) and Neil Winawer (10 pts., 9 reb., 3 assists). DUTCHMEN NOTES ....... The Dutchmen now stand at 12-10, with three big games remaining .... The coaches feel that with wins in their remaining contests, the Dut- chmen stand a good chance of qualifying for the ECAC PLAYOFFS .... KenD'Orazio finds himself 71 pts. short of 4th place on the all-time scoring list, while teammate Kevin Bartlett is also 71 pts. shy of 6th place .... Bartlett currently holds a 18.3 ppg. average, with D'Orazio right behind him at 17.6 ppg .... Union has received outstanding performances recently from freshman Kurt Fox, who has battled back fr,em an early season illness, and from sophomore Neil Winawer. from-behind victor-y with a The men's track team sent a clocking ·Of 4:28;06. Trailing by select few competitors to West as much as fifty yards with one - - Point on Saturday for the Metro leg to go Carmela Creech ran ail Athletics Congress Meet. outstanding leg to overcome the Heading the list of Union per- anchor leg of the Queens track formances was race walker Jim team who was dramatically _Mann who won the two-mile slowed in the last lap~ The other walk in 13: 2!k8. Making his three members of that team college debut in the Pentathlon, were Andrea Grief, Julie Wayne Lacy plac~d 3rd, Halpern, and Lee. collecting 3885 points. Winston In the individual events, Britton placed 8th in the 400 though no first were ac- meter race with a clocking of complished, seven people ran 50.34. In the 800 meter race, Rob qualifying times making them Mohlar ran a 2: 01.3 closely eligible for the Women's state followed by Jeff Barker in 2: 01.5 meet on Friday and Sattil'day at Upcoming meets for the Hamilton. Making the trip Union track program include based on Saturday's results will the NYSAIA W for the women be Amy Walsh in the 1500 this Saturday at Hamilton and meters, Vuolo and Curtis in the for the men, the RPI 500 meter run, and Lee in the 800 Invitational, also on Saturday. meter race. Also qualifying was Jim Mann travels to Madison Grief in the 300 meter and 50 Square Garden for the Mobil meter dash, and Halpern in the TAG meet which will include 50 meter hurdles. Good job, many of the country'.s top girls! athletes. Hockey • • Continued from page 20 hockey by faking a slapshot, as well as the goalie, and dtunping it off to the trailer, Bill Wer- neckey, who put it past the confused net-minder. 5-0 in two weeks. A twelve game unbeaten string. Home~ ice advantage in the playoffs for at least one round. Yes, things look good for the Dutchmen. So what's in.store for the .playoffs? \Last year we surprised a lot of people,\ Curt Cole surmised. ''This year teams know whO we are and what we're capable of doing. But as far as we're concerned, we have experience now, we have the talent, we have the confidence, and we're just going to go out and go for it. I'll be disappointed with anything less than a cham- pionship.\ As will we all, Curtis, as will we all. NOTES: The game against Plattsburgh might have determined who winds up in • second place in the Western Division. After the Dutchmen's impressive wii:t over the car- dinals, the selection committee may pick Union regardless of overall records . . . Union finishes up the season against Hamilton and Williams, two teams they have already defeated ... Gil Egan has 17 goals in thalast 10 games, while Curt Cole has 14 points. in his last 15 games . . . Wayne McDougall, who deservedly was voted EHNL goalie of the week the past two weeks, is unbeaten in his last 12 outings, and has 30 career wins to move him ahead of Steve Baker for first in wins . . . Transfer Tim Flanagan was in MacDougall's place against Colby, and did a fine job . . . Saturday's game against North Adams was senior appreciation night. Alleged seniors.honored include Egan, Knight, T .J. Ryan, Werneckey, Steve MacGillivary, and Sean Wills .. SUPPO-RT UNION SPORTS! Rebecca Clemente lets go of a one handed jumper in recent action. photo by Pat Merritt ~ I l ( t il v I: .b F g jl s, tJ f< i\ o: 11 H Ill tc bl w OJ tt hi ai 0( (@ w ar ro bE UJ sc ne biJ to do be wi clc ch thE mi Ke lor I ga: th€ Un fou Du ob' Vi'U PI~ ad' Op( ag< am the sco wit D'C reb Whi hac VI gar exc ba~ Ro< bef~ con gan a Roc gra the hon Yei Jar~ peri gua a 3-J U: seer the 22-2~ half com thro tied secc and bre~ 24-2: gam cloc

a West per- his 3rd, ton 400 of Rob the and RPI top car- of two 17 while his the ~. is tings, move !r for ~Tim gall's did a game was tight. elude lyan, eve ills .. on. CONCORD/ENSIS, February 21, 1985 Page19 Cagers Hope For ECAC Bid By MARK VAN BUREN During this past week, the Union basketba:H team was involved in two games that rated on opposite ends of the spectrum. Last Wednesday, the Dutchmen easily handled an undermanned Plattsburgh Cardinal team, 79-68. Although the score seems close, i~ is not indicative of the way the game was played. Union seemed to lack the \killer instinct\ in this ballgame. Instead of putting Plattsburgh away in the early going, the Dutchmen performed just well enough to beat the scrappy Cardinals. The teams traded.baskets for the oening four minutes of the first half. It was at this point that Union ran off ten straight points to grab a 16-6 lead at the 13:22 mark. However, Plattsburgh would not quit, and cut the Union lead to just a single point, 25-24, on a bucket by guard Tony .Shedrick with · 6: 11 remaining in the opening period. The Dutchmen then proceeded to close out the half by t;lking advantage of another streak of points, as they outscored the Cardinals 12-4, (getting 4 points each from Neil Winawer and Ken D'Orazio), and ventured into the locker room leading 37-28. The second half turned out to be similar to the first half. Union got off to a fast start, scoring the first six points of the new period, · enroute to their biggest margin of the game up to this point, 43-28. They held a doubl~-digit advantage for the better part of the second half, with Plattsburgh never getting closer than seven. The Dut- chmen held their largest lead of the game with just over five minutes remaining, 69-50, as Ken D'Orazio connected on a long-range jumper. Plattsburgh, who ended the game shooting 48 percent from the field as compared to the Union mark of 50 percent, took fourteen fewer shots than the Dutchmen did as a result of an obvious rebounding disad- vantage. Union outrebounded . Plattsburgh by nineteen, taking advantage of their shorter opponents. Union was led once again by seniors Kevin Bartlett and Ken D'Orazio. Bartlett led the Dutchmen offensively, scoring 22 points to go along with 5 rebounds artd 4 assists. D'Orazio added 20 points, 8 rebounds and 3 blocked shots, while sophomore Ken Levine had 12 points and 4 assists. While, the Union-Plattsburgh game provided only minimal excitement for the average basketball fan, the Union- Rochester game was billed beforehand as an important contest for both clubs. The game itself was nothing short of a thrilling performance. Rochester started the -game by grabbing a quick lead, much to the .delight of the partisan hometown crowd. The Yellowjackets opened up the largest ·lead of the opening period by, eitper team, 16-8, as guard Adrian Smalls converted a3-point play at the\13:40mark. Union battled back, as they seemed to be doing for most of the game, to cut the margin to 22-20, with 8:51 left in the initial half as guard Rob Parento connected .on a pair of free throws. Center Ken D'Orazio tied the score at 22, twenty-two seconds later and Rob Parento abnd Ken Levine clicked on a fast · reak to give the Dutchmen a 24-22 lead, their first of the game, with 7:53 showing on the clock. The score remained knotted for the rest of the half with Rochester scaring right before intermission to grab a 36- 34 halftime advantage. As the · score indicated, the first half was played practically even by bOth teams. From a statistical viewpoint this was· aiso the case, with the exception of the number of free throws (Rochester was 10 f@r 10 compared to 4 for 4 for Union). The second period, however, seemed like it was turning into a blewout,. as the YeUowjackets held an u~point advantage, 50- 39, with 13 minutes Showing on the clock. To add to this, Union had starting forward Kevin Bartlett on the bench with four fouls. Ngnetheless, the Dut- chmen would not play dead, as they fought back, and within 6 en en (1) ,_ CL t: 0 u r.n game into a third overtime. In the third extra period, it was R0chester who led most gf the wasy. Uni0n tied the score at 80, when Neil Winawer hit a jumper with 2:29 to play. The squads traded a basket, then Union grabbed an 84-82lead, as W!ttawer again hit a jumper With :22 remaining. Hokaj missed a short jumper and Tgm Beck came up with a loose ball for Union with only eight seconds to go. Union called a timeout, but in trying to get the ball in bounds again, Neil Winawer picked up an gffensive · foul sendiNg reserve guard Scott Sobolewski to the line for Rochester. He made both free throws to send the game into a fourth overtime period. Union as th~y had in the previous Sophomore guard Ken Levine lets goof a jumper in the Dutchmen's 79·68 victory over Plattsburgh. minutes had closed the Rochester margin to just one point, 54-53. With the reinsertion of Bartlett, the Dutchmen tied the game at 55, when he converted two free throws with just 3:42 remaining in regulation play. While the Union defense was holding Rochester at bay, Bartlett proceeded to hit two straight jumpers to give the Dutchmen their only lead of the second period, 59-55, with only : 46 left. Larry Hokaj, Rochester's leading performer, hit a pair of foul shots to cut the Union lead in half with :38 remaining. Freshman Kurt Fox hit the front end of a one and one with : 35 left, giving the Dut- chmen a 60-57 lead. Rochester tied the score all at once, as Tyler Zachem converted a 3- point play with seventeen ticks to go. Unioh attempted the final shot of regulation, but Ken Levine's jumper fell short as time expired. The first overtime stanza saw both teams, led by freshmen, exchange leads six times. The Dutchmen found themselves clinging to a 69-68 lead with :04 to go, but the Yellowjacket's Tyler Zachem was fouled. Zachem hit the first ·free throw, but missed the second, sending the contest into a second extra period. Union's Rob Parento and Kurt Fox combined for seven of Union's nine points in the period, while . Rochester's Tyler Zachem scored his team's final three points, all pressure foul shots. Union came out in the second overtime period on fire, opening. up a five point advantage, 74-69, with 3:10 left. Rochester cut the margin to one,. but freshman Tom Beck hit two free throws with :31 remaining to put Union ahead by three, 78-75. Joe Augustine's bucket cut the margin to one, and . Tyler Zachem again hit a free throw with no time showing to send the period, was again forced to play catch-up. The Dutchmen fought back from a four point deficit to tie the contest 90-90 on a Kurt Fox jumper with :46 left. With :26left, Neil Winawer missed a foul shot, and Fox, who grabbed the rebound, had his shot blocked. by Tyler Zachem. Rochester, it seemeU, would hold the ball for one shot. However, in the process they· threw the ball out of bounds. Union had another shot to win the game, but Mike Miller's shot with : 02 bounced off the rim and fell out as time expired. • Continued on page 18 · By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to goaltender Wayne . McDougaU off the Skating Dutchmen for earning Athlete of the Week honors. Wayne has backboned the Dutchmen's twelve game un- . beaten streak with his spec• taculat goaltending. The 6 ft. junior currently boasts a 2.8 goals against average and a save percentage of over 90 percent. For his performances against Williams and Bowdoin two weeks ago and Plattsburgh and North Adams last week, Dougie was named the Division II ECAC Goalie of the Week two weeks in a row. Wayne ex- tended his unbeaten streak to 11...0-1 in the Dutchmen's. win over the North Adams State Mohawks. In his three year ·career, McDougall shows 30 wins, 15 losses and four ties, giving him the most career victories by a Union metminder surpassing former NHL'er SPORTS Scot~WykoH On Sports Coaching can be a very frustrating occupation. Take it from Dutchman basketball coach Biil Scanlon. Two years ago the squad enjoyed a banner campaign. Over twenty wins and an NCAA teurney bid. Then last season, with more than a handful of starters returning from the NCAA qualifier, the Dutchmen could only muster a .500 record. This winter the scenario looked to be a bit different but the final outcome might turn out to be quite familiar. During pre~season many observers clid not give Scanlon's club much of a chance to do anything out of the ordinary in the upcoming seasen. Sure, Bartlett and D'Orazio were back on the frontline, but who would the. Dutchmen have to support the standouts? The answer was a mix of inex- perienced underclassmen and a batch of green freshmen, In the early going the team un- derstandably struggled. Eight games in to the schedule and the Garnet had only walked off the floor victors on two occasions. The two touted seniors had scored and rebounded while the masses around them merely looked on. Soon, hope could be seen as light began to emerge at the end of the tunnel. It started with a sweeop of the Union Invitational Tourney in early January. The wind seemed to catch the Dutchmen's sail at that point as the team put a string of six: consecutive victories together. Things were falling into place. The young guards were lear- ning their respective roles while the youthful big men began to take a lot of the load off the shoulders of Bartlett and D'Orazio. One could start to hear rumblings around the fieldhouse about post season possibilities. The NCAA's ap- peardd a bit out of reach but the ECAC's still loomed on the horizon. First, Union would have to lace up the sneaks aga4nst the likes of Albany, -Hartwick and Kings Point. Two .of them nationally ranked and one on a red hot\ tear. Athlete of the Week Steve Baker of the Rangers. Last season Wayne was the third rated goaltender in all of the ECAC Division II and he was nothing short of magnificent in the Dutchmen's run at the NCAA title. McDougall is a native of Guelph, Ontario and is a brother of the Chi Psi Fraternity. Good luck to. Wayne and the Skating Dutchmen in their quest for the ECAC Division II West crown. 0 0 Wayne MsDougall .c: 0. c i./) First up were the streaking Merchant Marines from Kings Point. The game was nip and tuck right down to the wire, but the home standing boys from Kings Point had more steam as the clock tikced down and they opened things up for a deveiving 12-point win. It did not get any easier the next Wednesday as Doc Sauer and his Albany State squad came into the fieldhouse having just broke into the national rankings. The Dut- chmen played inspired ball through the first half and took a lead to the lockers at the midway point. The Danes cut the Union lead early in the second stanza and with just ~wo minutes to go in the game the Dutchmen had the ball and a slight edge on the scoreboard. It looked goed for Scanlon and his players. Hold on to the ball for a couple of minutes and picj up victory number 10. So was not the case. Instead, the Garnet gave up the ball and hit showers having picked up loss number eight. Roll over and die time. No way. Union came back that same week to wallop a much-talked about Norwich team and set up a date to dance with the Warriors from Hartwick. As in the previous Albany match, the Dutchmen came out and held on to a lead at the half. Deja vu was the order of the evening though, as a carbon copy of the Albany loss came off the press and the once streaking squad from Schenectady had taken it on the chin once again. Then after an anything but satisfying win over Platt- sburgh, the frustrated hoopers took their show on the road to Rochester, a team they had beaten by 13 points in an earlier season engagement. Over three hours and five overtimes after the tip-off, Scanlon and his snake-bitten Dutchmen got on the bus for the long ride home. This entire season must seem like one long grueling ride for Scanlon. After the slow early season start it looked as though he had groomed his team into a quality club. After that period of prosperity in January and the sudden losses to Kings Point, Albany, Hartwick and Rochester most recently, the Dutchmen must now tighten their belts an.d go out in a blaze of glory to ease the pain of the winter. If they can win their final three, a shot at the Expanded ECAC tourney is not out of the question. Let's all hope luck swings over to the Dutchman basketball team in Jheir final stretch drive. It would be tough to come up with 14 guys qho deserve it any more than Bill Scanlon's hard luck hoopers. Th.ink Before You Act Don't Drink & Drive

Page 20 CONCORDI.ENSIS, February 21, 1985 ~~------------------------------------------------------- ---~~----------------~~--------------~----~---------- SP RTS Skating Dutchinen Stand at 15-6-1 ByALWHITE Sports Staff The Union College Skating Dutchmen went 5-0 in the past 2 weeks, and are now on a twelve game unbeaten streak, in- cluding ,eleven wins. They flew past Williams, Bowdoin, and Colby by scores of 8-3,3-1, and 5- 2 respectively, 2 weeks ago, and trounced 2nd place Plattsburg State and North Adams, 7-2 and 5-1 last week and are presently third in the ECAC's Division 2 Western Confernce. Penalties helped Union defeat Williams two Tuesday evenings ago. Tom Hodgins; Gill Egan (twice), Sean Wills, and Dave Appleby pitched in by doing their time in the penalty box. For on this night, Union probably would have won by a larger margin if they were short-handed for sixty minutes. Five of their eight goals were scored after each of these players were called for penalties. Captain, and team rabbit-tender Jamie Knight had a short-handed hat-trick, while Egan, when when he finally found time to get out of the peBalty box, had the other two, just seven seconds apart from each other, a Union record. This unassisted goal, while ne and Wills assisted on Cyr's 2nd goal of the year. Union had built a 2-0 lead after 2, but after the first five minutes of ,period three, the stubborn Mules (but of course) had tied it at 2. Then Defen- seman Dave Weiss-the same guy who two weeks earlier had picked a fight with Merrimack's No. 13, an unlucky move-put · the Dutchmen ahead for good with his first goal of the season. Ste:ve MacGillivary (10 points on the year) and Bran dell put the icing on the cake for Union with 2 more goals for the 5-2 final. Before the team left for Schenectady, however, they were rewarded for their efforts, as . the ever fashion-conscious Skating Dutchmen stopped off at the L.L. Bean outlet for a shopping spree. Yes, indeed, a good time was certainly had by all. Plattsburgh and North Adams In what was probably the biggest regular season game of the year, the Skating Dutchmen teased Plattsburgh State into thinking they might be in the game for awhile. Union, leading 4-0, gave the Cardinals 2 of his hehnet has become his trademark, has been rolling along at his usual profilic pace. He has 21 goals with 2 games remaining, has the schooi record for goals scored, and is tied for second with points scored. After Egan scored his first two goals, Dav.e Appleby's first of the season made it 4-0, and even with that scare in the second period. The Dutchmen knew they had it all the way(? ) \After their questionable showing up in Plattsburgh after their overtime win against us;\ explained Jamie Knight,\ we were that much more deter- mined to win the game.'' It was the third line's turn to be under the spotlight against North Adams. Center Gary Temush scored 2 goals to help lead the Dutchmen to a 5-l win over North Adams. After a flat first period, Union broke the 1-1 tie in the second period, while Wayne McDougall shined in the nets once again. But perhaps the best moment of the night, and one of the best all season, came in the third period, and Union's fifth goal. Egan showed all why he is one of the best players in all of Division 2 Continued on page 18 DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK February 21-February 28 Thursday 2122 JV Basketball v. MVCC 7:00p.m. Friday 2122 Men's Basketball at Clarkson Saturday 2/23 4:00p.m. Men's Track at R PI 2:00p.m. Men's Swimming NYS Meet Tuesday 2/26 Varsity Hockey at Middlebury 7:30p.m. B:OO p.m. 6:00p.m. Men 1 s Basketball v. Middlebury JV Basketballv. Hamilton· Union 7 Unions Union79 Rochester 99 Albany 82 Uni.on84 Union 65 Albany 57 Canisius58 Hobart 58 GARNETSCOREaOARD February 11-February 18 HOCKEY (lS-6-l) Plattsburgh St. 2 North Adams 1 MEN'S BASKETBALL (12~10) Plattsburgh St. 68 (SOT's) Union 98 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (4-14) Union 52 COT) St. Rose 83 WOMEN'S SWIMMING (3-8) MEN'S SWIMMING (1-12) O.S.R. 43 Union 38 Union 40 Union 33 SUPPORT UNION SPORTS Farewell to Foote Pool \' \' (]) ... Q. ... 0 u Vl >- .0 0 - 0 .c. Q. Senior Co-Captain Gill Egan eludes Plattsburgh Cardinal Captain. Egan scored three goals in the game as Union defeated Plattsburgh 7-2. game helped Gill take a strong team lead in both goals and penalty minutes. Knight, on the other (short) hand, has had trouble scoring when the same amount of men are on the ice for both teams-he has seven goals while his team was a man down, while 5 of his 14 goals have been on the power play. The score was only 4-3 after 2 periods, as Gerry Cheevers son and the rest of the Ephrnen played tough for qhile. Union's 4-goal barrage in the 3rd sealed their victory. And their reward after that big win? Why, nothing short of an all-expense paid weekend trip to . . . Brunswick and Lewiston Maine! ! Yes, The Skating Dutchmen traveled to Maine to play the Bowdoin Bears and the Colby Mules, and got out of the woods with 2 tough wins. The Bowdoin game was a low-scoring affair, a game played mostly on the boards. For those few Dut- chmen fans who decided to forego the ardous trip to New Brunswick, don't be too upset- there have been better hockt!y games to match than the one against the Bears from the State-o'-Maine. The Colby game highlighted some of the more unsung names on the Union squad. The fourth line, consisting of Tom Bran- dell, Scotty H. Cyr, and Sean Wills, had their first multiple goal night. BrandeD had an powerplay goals within 2 minutes to make the score 4-2. Plattsburgh had the momen- tum, but Union was never phased. Temush even let Plattsburgh's goalie stop his break-away bid, and when Plattsburgh was even close to scoring, Wayne McDougall was there to make the great saves .. Then Union slammed the door in a hurry in the third period, scoring three goals in 1 minute 52 seconds: Egan turned a great pass from Werneckey into a goal, Knight outhustled the goalie in front of the net for a second, and Taint Joyce rifled a slapshot off of Werneckey's stick and into the net. Although the game itself was excitement enough for the Union faithful, there were goings on off the ice to make things more interesting. First, with around two minutes left in the first period and Union up 1-0 the lights on the north side of the rink shut off. While the dilligent crew worked things out, out carne the zarnboni, and a 22 minute second period ensued. In that second period, the Platt- sburgh man ger and assistant coach got into a tussle with some of the fans, showing the crowd how completely into the game they were. In that period, when Gill Egan started his evening, as he had a haHrick on the night. Egan, whose long, hair streaming out By THE WOMEN'S SWIM TEAM On February 12, the women's swim team held the last swim meet of the season. This meet was historic in another sense. It was the last women's swim meet to be held in Foote Pool. The swimmers would like to · mark the end of an era in the \Farewell to Foote Pool.\ There's a lot we are going to miss about good old Foote Pool, 'just the extra foot! It gives an added dimension to swimming . The stately columns around the pool remind us of the Roman Baths, with a spacious deck for lounging. This same deck is finished in slick concrete im- ported from the Okefenokee Swamp. To remind us of the swamp, there is a lovely lagoon out by the door, traversed by each swimmer on their way to practice. The ecosystem of Foote Pool would not be com- plete without mention of the Great Barrier Reef growing in the deep end. Substitute yellow bits of old workouts, and black paint chips for coral and you've got our version of the Land Down Under. Animal life abounds in the pool area. There are mote than just swimmers in our pool. Come to think of it, there are more than just swimmers in our locker rooms too. The warm tropical breezes wafting through the area are the key to survival for animal life. The 105 degrees air temperature is circulated by a quiet, soothing, state-of-the-art fan. This same fan acts as a weather control device for the pool area- allowing the swimmers to ex- perience swimming in whatever the outdoor atmosphere may be that day-snow, sleet, rain ... The one thing the fan doesn't provide is fresh air for the athletes. For this, one must wade through the lagoon and open the door, providing cross ventilation breezes of 32 degrees. Don't forget to bring a prop for the door-the door stop doesn't quite reach t.he floor. Blown in with the fresh air is the odor of Bob's pipe. This adds to the lack of fresh, breathable air. Bob takes good care of the pool. To keep the tropical at- mosphere, he runs the Gulf Stream through the pool to create 84 degrees hot spots amidst the 70 degrees ocean currents. Poor visibility adds to the Gulf Stream illusion. It could be the lowest level of the ecosystem, algae, that is concealing the deep end from the shallow end, but one will never know. Bob also provides the team with a high-tech pace clock. The minute hand con- veniently travels around with the second hand-except when the second hand does double time from 55-60. But it will be the meets we'll miss most. Watching people slide down the wall doing backstroke starts, or searching for any grip possible on the starting block for dive starts. No one need sit on these blocks for people diving off~the poured concrete won't move. We would like to see them bronzed and left as is, as a lasting memorial to Foote Pool. Being conveniently located in the deep end, they make getting out of the pool after a race more difficult than the race itself. Speaking of races, our P .A. system is· superb. Coach Magee's voice resonates through the air as he shouts out race results from the an- nouncer's stand. This same stand is directly poolside, overhanging the pool for better viewing of close races. , Union has the ultimate home team advantage. We know our pool is a foot longer, we also know our backstroke flags are placed wherever the nearest column is, not any specific distance from the end. Another aspect of the home team advantage is the diving facility. It consists of a novel design: a diving well in the ceiling and no board. This also serves to confuse the opposing diving team. On a serious note, for all its faults and flaws, Foote Pool has provided us with many happy me:r;nories. The closeness of the men's and women's teams, the creation of the first women's team, the endless water polo games, would never haV-e been possible without Foote Pool. The pain of practices, the early morning workouts, and the frozen hair were all worthwhile when you or a teammate won a race or lowered your best time. It will be hard tQ say goodbye <fl· \' <V .. 0. .... .... 0 <, \' ,. - .c; r c .... ' 0 .c: il 1: u CIJ c 1: Ct. ro 0 >- .Q 0 .,__ 0 1: 0. ~ i ' r ( i' v 0 d tl c tl n d b \

p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. St. 2 1 t. 68 98 n 38 n 40 n 33 out an- same better home our e also are earest ~ecific home diving novel in the is also all its has happy of the the polo been Pool. the won a time. '·' Bulk Rate U.S. Postage Paid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 CXIV, No. 15 Schenectady, New Yo·rk February 28, 1985 Fraternity System . .. Dean Seeks Improvements Ill rc Ol .J::. u QJ c: .J::. 0. rc 0 >- .0 0 .... 0 .J::. a. IFC President Roger Harris believes the administration is doing a good job handling fraternities. By DAVID BllUCKMAN Staff Since the dissipation of the social rebellion that charac- terized the late 60's and early 70's, the fraternity movement has been on a rise. The Inter- fraternity Council (IFC) has 5,000 chapters on 650 campuses · with an average membership of 50 brothers per house. Twelve years ago there were 4,440 chapters averaging only 34 brothers per house. For the most part Union has kept up with this national trend of in- creased fraternity popularity. Currently, 48 percent of the Contraception Encouraged .JJy JUD.J~~'.I'J!1~AJHJ.T . News Editor There seems to be some general tnisformation among students about contraception and its availability on and off campus. The purpose of this article is to clarify this im- portant issue - and make students more aware of what services are available· to them. Doris Richar:ds, Director of the Health Service, says that the birth control pill and the diaphragm are available through Silliman Hall. The student does not have to pay for the doctor's fee, but the pill is about $6.50 per month, while the diaphragm costs $11.00 and the accompanying spermicide is $6.00. . Available Methods These are the only con- traceptive methods available at Silliman Hall. Richards states, \We don't use IUDs because they are not recommended for . . . this age population.\ As · for non-prescription contraceptives, such as con- doms and foams, Richards believes people can get them anywhere, and Silliman Hall would not be a first choice if they became available there. She states, \I would be happy to purchase and supply condoms and spermicide and it would be interesting to see if the service was used. Since this is a non- prescription item, they (students) don't need me to get it.\ .. AltbQugh .... s.ome.. . ,peo.ple._ in~ eluding Forum member Shari Midoneck and Professor Lipton of the Psycology department, believe pregnancy has become a real problem. there are very few statistics available. Richards states, \I don't think, we had a positive pregnancy test this year, '84-'85.\ This fact is not necessarily indicative of the state of things on campus, as students may be going off campus for pregnancy tests . Midoneck and fellow forum members are trying to get administration to approve the availability of non-prescription contraceptives in Silliman Hall. On February 11, 1985, the Student Forum officially ap- proved a document stating its intentions to appeal to the ad- ministration on this matter. Midoneck strongly believes more contraception should be available on campus to decrease the risk of pregnancy. She states, \How are we ever going to know if people will use something unless we try to do it and that's why contraception should be sold on campus. It's a lot worse to undergo the emotional turmoil of an abor- tion than to go to Silliman Hall and buy a box of condoms.\ , ~· Midt..pe•*···thinksr·tlie,-sehanl needs· to face the .'reality that students are sexually active and need to know more about contraception. She says, \There's a problem ... people are sexually active qnd people aren't using contraception ... If it's sold on campus and if there's educational programs to accompany it, people may become more aware of the fact that they should be using it.\ If the Forum's proposal is not accepted by administration, Midoneck still wants to try to set up educational programs on contraception through Health Service and Residence Life. She states, \Ifthey decide not to sell on campus, I would still push for educational seminars on con- traception for those who are sexually active.\ Lipton shares Midoneck's strong feelings on the topic of contraception .. He believes contraceptives should be sold in the campus bookstore because it is so obviously needed . He summarizes his view, \I'd like . to see them sell con- traception in the bookstore. The Continued on page 3 Professor Lipton of the Psychology department thinks con- traceptives should be sold in the bookstore. Richards believes people would be reluctant to go to the on-campus infirmary over the . .._ drugstore or Planned Paren- J5 · thood because of its relative e . conspicuousness. Asked if she t!> thought people would purchase ¥ non-prescription conctraceptive 0 devices on campus if. they >- became available, she states, .o \It would be interesting if * anyone came. That's why a £. good many people go to Planned Parenthood-'because they want confidentiality.\ male student population are in single event will not cause the fraternities. This has been the downfall of the entire system, case for the past five years. In although the house involved the early 70's, however, might be suspect. fraternity population was As they currently exist, smaller. Massa thinks that fraternities There was never the dramatic are a marginal asset to Union. shift downward at Union in The weights on one end of the fraternity membership that scale are just slightly heavier occurred in other institutions as than those on the other end. This a ramification of the Vietnam is not good enough for a school Era. This can be attributed to of Union's caliber, according to Union's rich fraternity Massa. He wants · the tradition. fraternity system to become Dean Massa believes that in better. -the early 70's the fraternities at He then went on to say that Union were merely tolerated, \the College supports £rater- regarded as an unavoidable nities as long as they are in line fixture of the campus. The with the major purpose and College left fraternities to rise regulations of the College. The or fall without administrative school will not tolerate any type support. There has in the last of hazing or the abuse, either three years,· however, been a physical or verbal, of any change in the relationship persons in a fraternity house, between the administration and especially women.\ the fraternities. · · ._,, .. ·- Massa believes. that-the only ''The College supports fraternities as long as they are in line with the major purpose and regulations of the College/' Massa sees the outgrowths of this new relationship, one of administrative involvement rather than apathy, as being either advantageous or detrimental to the fraternity system as a whole. Fraternities could take advantage .of the school's friendlier attitude and contribute to the College and the community, thus becoming stronger and securing their place in Union's future. The fraternities could also opt for independence by working outside the system. If such fraternities became weak, in the academic, financial, and membership areas, they will weaken the entire system. Massa says, \If the fraternity system is not as strong as it possibly can be, then the entire system could be called to question if an unfortunate in- cident occurs in a single house.\ If hypothetically, a drunk pledge falls off the roof of a fraternity house and kills himself, the whole fraternity system, if weak, would be called into question. This type of scenario has occurred in a number of schools including Hamilton, Colby, and Amherst. In the latter two, fraternities have been banished from the schools altogether. Massa believes that if the fraternity system ts powerful, visible,' an asset to the school and community, and is academically sound, then a Spyro Gyra Hits Proctor Is *Page 13* -Massa way for a fraternity to exist is if it accepts its role as responsible members of the college com- munity. This cannot be achieved by administrative apathy. Ergo, the school has decided to work with the fraternities and sororities to help thein understand their roles and perform them ap- propriately. Massa's overall feeling is positive about fraternities since they are good and getting better. Many people who work with the administration, inclUding Union's IFC President, Roger Harris, think that Massa and Mammola are doing a fine job. Harris wants the ad- ministration to understand the positive aspects that frater- nities offer to its brothers. The school seems too pre-occupied with what fraternities offer to the school and the rest of the student body. The brothers in fraternities gain strong bonds, a chance for leadership and responsibility, and the op- portunity to live with people they are compatible with, ac- cording to Harris. It is for these reasons that fraternities are as popular as ever. Besides supplying social diversions, says Harris, fraternities can, and do, bolster academics. Last year the IFC raised the minimum acceptable GPA offraternities from a 2.0 to a 2.3. Continued on page 3 Beaver Brown Plays Skyway *Page 15*

Page2 CONCORDIENSJS, February 28, I 985 Hank Morris Speaks ... Campaign Tips Dispensed Jacqueline Trescott Visiting Woodrow Wilson Fellow By DAVE MARIN Staff Last Wednesday, February 20, campaign consultant Hank Morris ef Campaign Strategies, Inc. delivered a talk entitled \Campaign Strategies in the 1980's\ as part ef the Chester A. Arthur Centennial Lecture· Series on Politics. Morris and his partner Phil Friedman are not specialists in any one aspect of campaigns; rather, they are general campaign strategists and are involved in every aspect of the campaigns they run. Morris started by saying that no politician runs a campaign simply to win. He is always planning for the future and is concerned with ways in which he can use his campaign to his benefit beyond simply winning. With this in mind, Morris defined a campaign strategy as a \a plan that allows you to achieve your political ob- jectives as efficiently as possible.\ He gave two specific example§..~of objectives that a candidate may and should have. It is important that once he is elected to office he has the It is of paramount im- portance, says Morris, for a candidate to develop a cam- paign strategy early on in his campaign. In doing se, a can- didate should \have no preconceived notiens; there are no rules.'' According to Morris, there are many generally ac- cepted basic rules which are just myths. · In fact, he says, every campaign must be treated separately. Some of the myths he discredited include the notions that a candidate should never mention an opponent's name, that a negative camp<dgn never works, that television is always the most effective media, and that a campaign cannot be won without volunteers. After dispensing any belief in ruJes, Morris ·proceeded to lay out a seven step plan for developing a strategy. Campaign Strategy necessary to win many elec-, tions. These are the minimwn requirements necessary to \get noticed by the political elites.'' E~amples are the two· million dollars necessary to win a statewide election in California and twenty-five percent of the vote at a New York State convention for a candidate in this state. . Step 7: The candidate must determine where the message should be taken. This could be the media, the subway, or the beach. t The candidate must target who his voters are and find out where they will get their information. Changing Strategy Thursday, February 28 ability to use his office ef- 9:30-\Government and the Mass Media\-Political Science 11, fectively. Therefore, he must Step 1: A candidate must define his primary and secondary objectives. Exam- ples are positioning for a future race and ~eceiving a mandate in the election. Morris suggested that part of Gary Hart's failure stemmed from not clarifying his ob- jectives early enough. He seemed unsure as to whether he was running for 1984 or to gain support for 1988, or even for Vice President in 1984. Morris disc1:1ssed three major historical changes that have affected political campaign strategy significantly. Twenty- five years ago, he says, can- didates were \pulled along by the party tick~t.\ That is no longer the case. Morris states that now people vote 'for ·the man. Now people also have access to more information than ever before so they can make a judgment baseji on their increased exposure to the candidates. Contemperary American Politics, Professor William Daniels, SS run his campaign in a manner 115. that will not present a liability The third major change he discussed is the advent of feedback through tracking polls. These greatly affect the way in which candidates run their campaigns. 12:30-\A Black Woman Journalist's View of Washington, D.C. in . to him once he is elected. the Last Decade\-Women's Commission, Banquet Room, Car- Morris also contends that a negie. candidate should not alienate 4:00-Informal Get-Together, Staff of Concordiensis, Carnegie. · constituencies in the process of 8:00-\Minority Politics in the 1980's\-Alpha Kappa Alpha winning. Sorority, Israel AME Church, Albany, NY. As an example, he said that Step 2: The candidate must determine what the political context is. This includes a Future Strategy· Friday, March 1 Carter won in 1976 by running 9:00-Tour of Capital District \against Washington\ which myriad of questions such as Hank Morris sees two trends • ••••••••••••••••••••••• .. hurt his ability to govern once he entered the White House. whaf office is being sought, how for the future in political visible the race is, where can campaigning. First, he sees a the candidate.s get free continuation of the in- coverage, when will the public dividualization of campaigning, focus on the election, how many that is, targeting different areas people are running, and hoW arid groups with different ap- Huggins Authors Book By ANDREA BUGBEE Now a Professor of Sociology, Martha Huggins, recently published her first book, From Slavery to Vagrancy in Brazil; Crime and Social Control in the Third World. This work, released in December of last year, was published by the Rutgers University Press. Already, it has been honored by nominations for the Lesley Wilkins Prize and the New England Council ·of Latin American Studies (N.E.C.L.A.S.) Prize. \This book is about the transition from slavery to free labor in Brazil. It shows how the police and legislative mechanisms were used to force free workers to work on sugar plantations,'' explained Huggins. Accordingly, critic Robert M. Levine summarizes this book in a review by stating that \The Study addresses themes of interest both to Brazilians and non-Brazilians, and makes a strong con- tribution to our understanding about crime, social control, and human behavior in the historical context.\ One of only about two books of its kind, this piece exposes Brazilian society from 1850-1920 in a much different fashion than other sources. Stated Huggins, \previous scholarship painted it as a relatively trouble-free transistion, whereas my book really examines the impact of colonialsim and economic dependence on crime and social control. The transition was not easy at all.\ The majority of research for this book was completed in the two years that Huggins resided in Brazil as a visitin~ professor at the Federal Umversity of Pernambuco in North Eastern Brazil. Funded by a scholarship from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Huggins taught one graduate seminar on can the candidates be. dif- peals. At the ·present time be research methods. He.r book. There are things about it ferentiated. says mailings are very research in Brazil was also that I would change, but, This information is vital to specified. funded by grants from the Ford overall, I'm pleased.\ establishing the candidate's At the same time, however, Foundation and the Brazilian Presently, Huggins is campaign strategy. he sees campaigns as moving government's Agency of Higher working on a second book Step 3: Electoral constraints away from dealing with Education. tentatively titled, Vigilantism in must be reviewed. These are teachers as teachers and blacks Just getting permission to do Modern Brazil. The book will the ballot procedures, the ballot as blacks. Now people are being the research, Huggins ex- expose illegal use of police structure, rules and dates classified according to their plained, was difficult. The against the Brazilian regarding getting on a ballot, lifestyle, for instance whether Brazilian govern;nent is ruled population. She speculates that runoff, and primary dates and they smoke or do not and if they by a military dictatorship, and her sabbatical next year will procedures, and financial are a joggers. He expressed the getting access to material was a · afford plenty of time to work on reporting procedures. amazing capabilities of the new task in itself. Huggins was able this piece. Step 4: The candidate must systems saying, \I don't think to obtain the information that investigate what kirid of voting we're too far away from she needed, fortunately, by the Th.•nk Befo· re blocs exist and how they will knowing that joggers watch Hill intervention of a brother of a influence the election. Street Blues.\ colleague at Pernambuco ·who y A f Step 5: · Examine public Morris followed his lecture was a colonel. With the aid of OU · C opinion and the political tone. with a presentation of television this colonel, all doors were open Don't An example of such a con- ads he has prepared for cam- to her. sideration is the racial tone of paigns in which he explained Eventually, Huggins even Drink & Drive New York City. the strategies behind them and managed to gain access to the Step 6: Various thresholds are how effective they were. ~~:~~~ 7 . 0 ~.~~~~.~~,~;E Montano Joi·ns Unt·on while researchmg m South . American included the ad- justment from a First World, democratic society, to a Third World, militarized nation, and, obviously, a language barrier. Huggins knew only about fifty Portugese words when she arrived in Brazil in 1975. Though her research was almost complete in 1977, Huggins did not actually start writing her book until 1979, when she arrived at Union. From 1979-82, Huggins worked at collaborating her volume while adjusting to her new career at Union. \I got up every morning at five o'clock to get in at least four hours of writing before my eleven-thirty class; and then, of course, I'd come home at night and write from about eight tmtil ten when I could fit it in between grading, meetings, and preparing classes. Huggins added that she would not have been able to survive these pressures if it were not for Terry Weiner, head of Sociology at Union. Huggins· concluded, \I'm very pleased with the By GREG FAY Staff Sharon Montano, Adjunct Professor of Spanish, is a new member of the Modern Languages Department. After getting her B.A. in 1977 from Ohio University, Montano taught there as a. teacher's assistant unfil 1979, when she earned her Master's degree. Since 1980, Montano has been working on a Ph.D from the State University of New York at Albany, where she taught until last year. Montano spoke en- thusiastically about the change. Said she, \I am very impressed with the students.\ She ob- served that her students \work a lot harder,\ and are very willing to come to her for help when they need it, before it would be too late. Noting Union's small classes, Montano asserted, \It's much easier here to teach.\ Her positive attitude is also ap- parent when she speaks ot her colleagues on the faculty. Said Montano, \They're easy to work with and they're very receptive.\ This term, Montano is teaching Spanish 11- Basic Spanish II, and Spanish 130- Introduction to Spanish Literature. She stated, \I'm really surprised and pleased at the students' attitudes toward Spanish. She has found that many of her students would like to combine Spanish with other subjects in creating a major. She asserted, ''Students are beginning to realize that they're going to need foreign languages. It's going to be to our detriment if we don't speak more than one language.\ Montano learned to speak Spanish fluently while studying for three years as an un- dergraduate in Xalapa, Veracruz, in Mexreo, from 1974 to 1976. Montano stated, \When I was·.an undergraduate, I was going to be a psychiatrist . . . I minored in Latin American courses.\ But she soan changed her mind. \New N'arrative\ Expert She is an expert on the \New Narrative,'' or \La nueva narativa,\ of Latin America, which began about the year 1941. It is a part of the movement called the Latin American Boom, a renaissa.nce of great writers, including Gabriel Garcia Marquez, winner of the Nobel Prize for literature in 1980. Asserted Montano, \The new narrative puts into question our attitudes about literature . . . also, it's very subversive in that it makes us question a lot of things about language in- directly.') Ph.D Work The Boom writer Jose Donoso,a Chilean, is the subject Continued on page 3

a the in be the and get by no the he of the a in- M er, ing ith :ks ng eir ter :ey he ~w nk lm [ill re on n- ed ld n an ed !W ra a, tr 1e in :g 2:, >r w tr lt >f 1- e ~t 3 CONCORDIENS/S, February 28, 1985 Page3 Security Changes 6y JUDY PRICE Staff Kyle Vandercar -and Larry Wilder have asswned the roles of student security managers foUowing the resignations of Pat Salvador and. Joe Picolla earlier this term. Salvador and Picolla, both juniors, had each held their positions for ap- proximately one year. Both Resign Picolla resigned five weeks ago for personal reasons, and Salvador re~igned not only due to the responsibility and time required, but also to give Vandercar and Wilder the opportunity . .Salvador is still working security this term and expects to next term also. Although Picolla is not currently working any hours for security, he may do so during the spring term. Vandercar and Wilder, also juniors, earned their .positions based on their previous work for security, their. interest ir1 the position, and interviews. Vandercar has been working for security since September and Wilder has been with security for one year. In the. past, Vandercar and Wilder were assigned shifts. With their new positions, they have gained many respon- stbilities including scheduling, fi'lling 6-7 shifts per night in- cluding finals week and vacations (such as spring break), finding replacements when necessary, meeting and talking with security officers, checking time sheets and making sure everyone gets paid, participating iri the in- terviewing and hiring of new work~rs, and supervising 40 student workers. Massa Reviews Greek System Continued from page 1 Harris said that, \the entire system 1s improving and is . loosely, not poorly, organized compared to those of other schools. The regulations at Union are less stringent than those of other schools because the munber and severity of fraternity antics at Union are minimal compared to those at other institutions.\ It is in- dividmils, and not fraternities, that deter people from academics. By no means are a greater number of these types of individuals centralized in fraternities. Massa has put in a herculean effort and he really wants, according to Roger Harris, to protect the fraternity system. Evidence of this is the newly formed Greek Newsletter to Alumni. This tri-annual publication is Massa's pet project that consists of articles concerning fraternities and sororities. The newsletter is sent to 350 altunni who are concerned and interested about the Greek organizations. at Union. Massa pointed out that some of the most enduring memories for half of the student body are fraternities or sororities. The Greek Newsletter will get more popular and will strengthen Greek organizations in the future. It makes sense that alumni might donate less money, to Union if their fraternities or sororities were · abolished, and the school must protect its fiscal interests. Having spoken with a number of students, some having social intercourse with the ad- ministration, some. not, the obvious concensus is that the overall image of fraternities has gotten better with both the student body and the ad- ministration. Another sen- timent shared by many, in- cluding the presidents of more than one house, is that the administration is being too rough with fraternities and not giving them enough in- dependence. The cooperation of ad- ministration and the frater- nities could be a mutually helpful, lasting relationship, although some fraternity members believe the relationship is harmful. '' CAMPUS QUOTES \There's a problem ... people are sexually active and people aren't using contraception . . . If it's sold on campus and if there's educational programs to ac- company it, people may become more aware of the fact that they should be using it.'' -Shari Midoneck Senior Trustee on the Student Fomm \If the athletic department takes us over then we would be in a lower priority due to the number of activities they supervise ... I don't want it to be that we get what is left over.\ -Sue Morse President of the Uniop Cheerleaders \Last year is history. We have to face the challenges that are ahead of us this season. It won't be easy because everyone will be gunning for us. We won't be able to sneak up on anyone. This team showed a lot of heart and desire last season. I think they developed their own identity. I'm sure that we can expect more good things from Union College hockey .again this season., -Charlie Morrison Coach for the Skating Dutchmen '' Guard Changes Not Anticipated Neither Vandercar nor Wilder anti'Cipates any major changes 'for student security in the near future, but Wilder hopes to continue \our visibility on campus\ and to keep things running smoothly. Salvador summed up .every- one's feelings by saying that the student security is '''in good shape right ROW. Students (working on security) really care about the campus.\ Kyle Vandercar and Larry Wilder recently assumed the positions of student .heads of security. · Contraception Discussed Continued from page 1 fact that it's hidden and hard to get to puts a stigma like there's something wrong with it. I'm surprised that it's an issue now.\ Mr. Green, head of the bookstore, says that the store does not sell contraceptives because it is inappropriate for a bookstore and there is no demand for it. He says, \We are basically a bookstore supplying text and reading materials for the students. It's felt that materials such as that are better purchased at drugstores in the area-people are better qualified to sell that kind of stuff. We don't have a demand for it, nobody's ever asked for it.\ At least for now, students will have to go off-campus for all contraception except for the diaphragm and the pill. Planned Parenthood has a full range of programs covering health care, com1seling, and education in family plaRning. At Planned Parenthood, every kind of contraceptive method is available,. including: pills, I.U.D., diaphragm with cream or jelly, contraceptive sponge, foam and condoms, fertility awareness, and referrals for sterilization. There is also a full line of medical services, such as a pelvic exam, pregnancy testing, and abortion (at the Schenec- tady Center only). The center will counsel you when a problem arises, or educate you on how to avoid such problems. Planned Parenthood is within walking distance of· campus- right on Union Street next to The Trading Port. Prices are reasonable-roughly based on ability to pay. Also, payments may be deferred, so they are made when money becomes available. The Planned Parenthood pamphlet \50 Choice Years\ states, \We offer accurate information in a supportive atmosphere so that individuals caR make informed choices that are consistent with their own values and lifestyles. Our staff of professionals includes doc- tors, nurse practitioners, nurses, counselors, educators, and support staff.'' Increased availability of contraceptive metho.ds on ·campus and accompanying educational programs could help increase student· awareness of the necessity to think ahead in sexual matters. In the meantime, such in- formatioR is available off- campus, and many students would be doing themselves a favor if they made use of it. Businesses Want Basics (CPS )-Big business wishes higher educ~tion would get back to basics and leave specialization to the corporate classroom,· a Carnegie Foun- dation for the .Advancement of Teaching study says. While most admit they're generally happy with their employees' education, cor- porations spend up to $100 billion a year to edu·cate workers, partly because colleges spend too little time teaching cormnunication and problem solving skills, the study notes. \Higher education is aban- doning its own mission and purpose,\ claims Carnegie Foundation communications director Bob Hochstein. \It's attempting to imitate and rival corporate education when liberal learning is t~e core of what higher education should be about,\ he adds. Corporate education has.... existed for decades to update employee technical skills, but company pragrams are \big and getting bigger\ with the spread of high technology, Hochstein s·ays. Big business now educates millions of wokers a year in courses ranging from remedial reading to nuclear physics, says study author Nell Eurich. As a result, corporate schools must broaden their curricula to include math, reading and communication, basic skills that should be taught in college, she adds. \Corporate educatioR has become a matter of teaching basic skills as well as narrow specialization,\ Eurich ex- plains. \These studies shouldn't have to be duplicated in cor- porate classrooms. Especially not for college graduates.\ Training Needed \There does appear to be a need for this kind of training,\ agrees Sylvia Galloway, spokeswoman for the American Council on Education. \Many (corporate) programs look comparable to what's offered in a traditional college setting with lots of training in the basics,\ she says. Corporations like Chesapeake ami Potomac Telephone, American Sterilizer, Westinghouse, General Motors and A T and T offer employee educational opportunities rivalling traditional colleges, Galloway says and many offer accredited courses and degree programs. \We don't necessarily aim at covering higher education deficiencies,'' claims Terri Capatosto of McDonald's media relations department. \But we do offer 18 hours of accredited courses toward an associate degree in food service.\ \We're generally happy with what we're seeing coming out of colleges,'' she adds. \But we need to take W1iversity training · one step further.\ \We're broadening our curriculum beyond technology,'' agrees Steve Finn of McDonald's chief rival, Burger King. \We offer general courses knowing they have many ap- plications,'' he explains. \Thousands go through our program each year. Montano ... Continued from page 2 of Montano's Ph.D dissertation, of which she is on the last chapter. Said Montano, \It's about how Donoso fits in with the 'New Narrative' and how he plays games with the reader.\ Although much of her spare time is taken up by the dissertation, Montano enjoys movies when she can, and she especially likes some of the French directors. Union ex- tends a warm welcome to Montarto. Concordiensis regrets to announce the death of H. Lawrence Achilles on Feb. 20 at the age of98. Achilles had served at Union as a freshman hockey coach and director of religious education. Achilles was also a benefactor of Union.

Page4 CONCORDJENSIS, February 28, 1985 Calllpus News Briefs WRUC Trivia Update Conference to be Held The 20th Annual New York State Undergraduate Psychology Conference will be held at Union April 19~21, · drawing some 200 students from throughout the Northeast. Modeled afteF a professional conference, students will present papers and participate in discussions and workshops. The keynote address, titled \Forget It! Some Principles of Rem em bering,'' Friday evening will be given by Prof. Henry Gleitman of the University of Pennsylvania. Saturday's schedule will feature 15-minute presentations of papers and discussions. organized by paper topic, and workshops on a variety of areas of experimental and clinical psychology will be held both Saturday and Sunday. Workshop topics include careers in psychology, grad- uate studies in psychology, assessment of group in- teraction, psychology of creativity, exploring sex roles-, sensation and perception, and death, dying and hospice. Papers will be selected on a competitive basis. Proposals should be submitted by March 8th and should be between 500 and l ,500 words in length, providing a summary of the paper to be presented as well as a brief, 50-word description for the conference program. Place your name and address on a separate sheet of paper; papers will be judged by blind review. Three copies should be sub- mitted to the Paper Review Committee, Undergraduate Psychology Conference, Psychology Department, Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308. Eligible are class term papers, senior theses, and in• dependent student projects, covering such topics as research, empirical study, theoretical analysis, or review of critical literature. Students of all majors are invited to submit proposals. The registration fee for the three-day conference is $15 if paid before April 5 and $20 afterward. Fee includes six meals and entrance to all conference activities. Registration forms will be mailed to college psychology departments this month, or may be obtained from the conference office at Unior:t. Writing Center Guide The Writing Center has published this week A Short Guide to Notes and Bibliography, for distribution to students and faculty. Professor Alan Nelson, Director of the Writing Center, described the 28-page publication as an aid to \the protocol of source citations.\ Wtiters of term papers, theses, and other academic articles should find it useful for documentation. The note and bibliographic forms are based OA those prescribed by the 1985 edition of the Handbook published by the Modern Language Association. These forms are widely adopted as standard for citations. The Guide presents forms for footnotes, end-notes, and the increasingly common \in-text\ .notes, as well as bibliography. An edition of 300 copies has been made possible by a grant from the Internal Education Foundation. Copies of the Guide have been sent to heads of all academic departments. Students and other faculty may obtain copies at the Writing Center, on the second floor of Old Chapel. Library Thefts Between January 1 and January 28, security received eight reports on wallets stolen in the library. The thefts took place between the all-night study and the second floor. Security responded by assigning young officers who look college-,aged as decoys in the library. The procedure was concluded February 25. Circumstances the thief looked for were purses left unattended for periods of time and times just before or after dinner. \It's carelessness, but shouldn't be happening,\ says· Forum Continues Pledge By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff The Student Forum met this past Monday, February 25. The meeting discussed mainly \old business\ issues. The first order of the meeting was the passage of last week's minutes. A motion for approval was made and passed. Secondly, President Benson read the contents of a letter to the editor he wrote to Con- cordiensis. The contents of the letter addressed the Forum's continuing commitment to \better our Union.\ The meeting then turned to committee reports. Sue Brand, Chairman of the Cormnittee on· Committees (Co C) reported that the CoC had removed all of the six clubs off \conditional status\ except for BLAS and Mountebanks (the other four handed in their club status reports). SAC Opening Brand also announced that there is one recently opened position on the Student Affairs Council. Applications will be available until Monday. Sophomore Representative Julie Mountain gave the report of the Student Mfairs Council (SAC). The SAC continued to address the \social problem\ of the library. It was believed that some of the noise problems might be alleviated by ex- tending hours of the Social Sciences Building and the opening of Chet and Andy's Cafe. In addition, the SAC discussed the possibility of extending library hours possibly to 11:30 p.m. or 12:00 p.m. Further discussion is expected on the issue. ISC Conference Independent Student Coalition (ISC) representative Adam Rosman reminded the Forum that the TAP lobby day in Albany is on March 5th. Rosman will be contacting interested individuals (in- cluding Forum members). Also, on March 4th there will be an ISC Conference at Union. Approximately 70 student government heads are expected to attend. Trustees Report Student Trustees Shari Midoneck and Andrew George reported that they met with Dean Manunola last week to discuss the possibility of in- stalling new weights in the Alumni Gym now instead of waiting for renovations to begin. It was found to be impossible, as the money for the weights is part of the total budget for building, whose money has not been borrowed yet. president of the cheerleaders voiced her disapproval of the proposal, ''If the athletic department takes us over then we would be in a lower priority due to the number of activities they supervise .. .! don't want it to be that we get what is left over.\ Several Forum members disagreed with her position including Brian Laux, \I don't feel that the administration would hurt these groups because it would look bad for them. Anyway, the Forum could then take them back. In the case of the Glee Club and Crew Team, we just don't have adequate funds for them. Plus it is only three clubs we are discussing.\ ' Other discussion ensued, with points being given on both sides of the issue. However, it was noted that resolutions are not to be voted upon until next week. With no other ·issues to discuss, a motion to adjourn was then made and passed. It was noted by Benson that next week's meeting was moved up to 4;30 p.m. due to the ISC conference. COII606 Press SorviCA Clifford Wood o{ Security. Most wallets were ~ecovered in the male bathroom. One was found outside the library. tn each_ case, everything was intact except fot money, which was sometimes in excess of '25. ABC Kick-Off Dinner George B. Cox, senior vice president and group executive of General Electric's Turbine Business Group, will be the guest speaker at the kickoff dinner for Union's Annual Business Campaign (ABC). The dinner will be held Thursday, Feb. 21, at the Holiday Inn, Nott Terrace, Schenectady. The topic of Cox's talk will be cooperation between industry and education. Volunteers on the 1985 ABC have been invited as well as representatives from com- panies that made a substantial contribution to last year's campaigN, More than 100 persons attended last year's dinner. In addition to being respon- sible forGE's Turbine Business Group, Cox serves as the company's Schenectady Area Executive and has primary responsiblity for conducting relations with the state. He joined GE in 1950 in Portland, Oregon, and became senior vice president in 1979. Unofficial Scores Week,#2 Davidson.& Fox Davidson 27 Fox B Fraternities & Other Dorms Phi Neat Guys 22 Hickok Trojans 20 ZB Terminators 19 Webster Sport Beans 7 South 6 I ndepend:ents Bob ~ South Rebels .111 15 Cherry Pickers ll Am. Soc.·RedM&M's 6 Zeta BetaTomatoes 6 OUCTT '88 Win. 01. 4 Great Minds 3 Bikini Men 2 2 Lonely Guys 2 Court Gestures l Cloud Kings l Zoo Crew 1 Betty's . 1 Tri Pod 1 Acme Tools 1 3-Point Bonus Question What author wrote the famous children's reader series \Dick and Jane .. \ Tune in Sunday March3 89.7FM--WRUC Douglas La Bier, psychologist and psychoanalyst, presented a talk titled \Careers Values, Conflict and Emotional Distur· bance\ on Feb. 19. Dr. LaBier is a Senior Fellow at the Project of Technology, Work, arid Character in Washington, D.C., a fi:)culty member of the Washington School of Psychiatry, and in private practice of psychotherapy and psychoanalysis. Dr. LaBier's current area of investigation is how work and career within the modern organization affect the person, how different kinds of people adapt to role requirements and pressures generated by careers within large organizations, and to what extent .psychiatric problems are caused by a neurotic personality or by the external situation. Dr. La Bier is preparing the results of this seven-year study for publication as a book, Passions at Work. The program was sponsored by the Psychology Department as part of the lchabod Spencer Lecture Series. (\ Brian Laux, Chailman of the Finance Committee (FC), reported that at the last meeting a member of the Women's Glee Club was reimbursed for money she spent for the club. Also, a resolution was passed by the committee prohibiting the use of club funds after May 1 without prior FC approval. Laux explained that the committee was not prohibiting the use of this money, only that it wanted to know bow it was going to be spent. Lastly, the Finance Committee will be sending letters out to club heads soon giving the dates of budget material distribution and the dates budgets are due. The focus of the meeting then turned to new business, specifically the upcoming resolutions to remove cheerleaders, Crew Club, and the glee clubs from Forum financing, and put them under the responsibility of the ad- ministration. Sue Morse, the \\!tfl ~t> \0 ~i~O ~m 'IOU \~ 1'~a \.~G ~ 1'0 ~\ l.R!'' .._ CIJ .c :::) .._ (.!) \0 > ro Cl >- . .c 0 .,_ 0 .I:. 0.

27 8 22 20 19 7 6 25 15 ll 6 6 4 3 2 2 1 1 1 . 1 1 1 he CONCORD/ENS/$, February 28, 1985 PageS Frolic in Snow NORTH CREEK, N.Y.~The Gore Mountain Ski Area is offering Albany area college students a special invitation to celebrate the first day of spring on Wednesday, March 20. The \Capital College Spring Frolic\ will offer treJnendous spring skiing with drastically reduced lift and lesson rates, cocktail specials, Hve entertainment and contests. The invitation has been ex- tended te all Albany area schools including Hudson Valley, Siena, SUNY _at Albany, Skidmore, Russell Sage, St. Rose, Union, RPI, Adirondack Community, Albany College of Pharmacy, Schenectady County Community and Albany Junior College. Students presenting a college identification card will receive unlimited skiing privileges for $10, a two-for-one lesson Special, a chance to participate in a beach costume contest for prizes, tropical cocktail specials and live entertainment in the A pres Lounge. Skiers will also be treated to com- plimentary suntan lotion, sundeck barbecue specials, reduced rate ski reNtals and NASTAR racing. The event is being sponsared by the Olympic Authority to kiekoff an extended season which is expected to run well into the menth of April. Special round-trip tran- sportatian informatian can be arranged by ~ontacting Kent A very or Darci Tim berlin at the student information office. For further information contact Geoffrey Knapp at (518.) _ 251-2411 or write Spring Frolic, Gore Mt. Ski Area, North Creek, N.Y. 12853. FEATURES ~u.i1iblliu:m C~ PrEHS Sorvtce financial Aid v WOMEN I. The American Cancer Society recommends that every woman aged 20 or over, should have a Pap test once a year. These tests can be obtained .by going to a gynecologist, other doctor or clinic. Your Personal Expenses c E By KARLA HANSON Cancer; it could strike anyone. The breasts and uterus are major sites of cancer for American women. Each year about 48,000 women - develop . uterine cancer and 109,000 · · women will get breast ·cancer. Forty-seven thousand of these women will c;l.ie annually (many unnecessarily). Uterine cancer is highly curable. Cancer is merely an uncontrolled growth of . ab- normal cells. Regular medical attention is the only way to early detection of cancer in the uterus. The Pap test is a highly accurate way to detect can- cerous ·cells as they are shed from the body of the uterus and cervix. On the other hand, breast cancer is most often (95 per- cent) detected by the woman herself. The cancerous cells in the breast occur most often as a lump or thickening of tissue in the upper, outer portion of the breast, although it can appear anywhere! For accurate in~ structions on how to perform monthly Breast Self- Examination (BSE), see your doctor or: The American Cancer Society Schenectady County Unit 1596 Rugby Road S~henectady, NY 12308. ~ Become familiar with your body and the following seven warning signals will help you do your best to discover cancerous growth at its earliest stages: 1) Change in bowel or bladder habits. 2) A sore that does not heal 3) Unusual bleeding or discharge 4) Thickening or lump in breast or elsewhere 5) Indigestion or difficulty of swallowing 6) Obvious change in wart or mole 7) Nagging cough or hoarseness. ........................................................................................... ········•··········· ............ . . . . . . . i Wood'CoW W.i..Uon Fount.lation V.i.6-Uing Fe.Uow i . . . . . . . . ., . . . i Jacqueline Trescott i . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 \ A Black Woman Journalist's VIew - i . . . . . . i Washington In the last Decade \ : . . . . : : Toda( February 28, 1985 A reporter for I.h.!t.JrashllJ.&!Q.I.L.fl!!! for ten yean, Jacqueline Trescoll has received: numerous honors for her coverage of minority culture, Washington _city life, national! polttical figur~s. and sociological trends. She received a dearee in journalism from St,l Bonaventure Umversity and has done graduate work at New York Univenity. Her awards! mclude the 1979 Capital Press Club Journalist of the Year and the 1981 Robert Kennedy! Journalism Award. She has been a teacher, and m011t recently the director, of the Univerflity! of Cahfornta Berkeley's Summer Program for Minority Journalists. :1. Banquet Room, Carnegie, 1 2:30 PM . . By TONI L. DAILOR Assistant Director of Financial Aid Many thanks to the 168 students who responded to the Financial Aid Office's \Per- sonal Expense Survey.\ We appreciate the time and care you took to complete the form and to offer comments. The purpose of the survey was to determine whether the portion of the individual student financial aid budget allowed for One Day Closer fOr: Song for a di~tant lover) ' ·' . . . . . •' -~ -- . . . . ;_ •( ml~Jh.etitlies ll'l!'r.e(Jot together, Fm II()( telling you anything ne \'· The memory of your tou.-h lillf:er~· lightly on my skin I tr)'to hold on . .• But it fades • •. A.\ the loneliness gro 11'.\', We .-an 't sul'l'i•·e ln negati1•es, though So to happier times I turn. I see us laughing, playing, r:aring .•. and always loving I suddenly smile • .. For awhile ... We're together again. I want to keep the warm feeling I have: lost in my dream. E1•eryplace I rum holds a simple memory: An old champagne cork • .• Apictue ... And the time passes slowly. I fall asleep with thoughts of you, Hoping ni.v dreams will bring us close. I hug a pillow, or a stuffed, smiling cat And whisper goodnight ••. As sleep comes . .. And another day is gone. An electric alarm brings me to ''On· sciousness. I smile, hearing you cursing that clock. Looking at my watch, I know just where you are in your day It's morning again .•• The pattern repeats • •. But I'm one day closer to you. -D.M.S. aka D.N.K. Winter, 1985 • Bring your lunch - cot fee and tea will be provided. • '\.. •• o o • ••••••••••••• o ••••• ••• •••• o • • ••• o oo ••• ••••• ••• ooo o • ••• ••• ooo o o •••••• oeo oooo o oi ••• o ••• o o o •• o •• o oo o io o • • ••• oooeo 0 0 0 •• '-----------.....-1 llll· t~~r~ .... ·.~··· IIIII ~~~~=~:;;~: IJ ::!:::::::: :-:·:·:·:·: ··········· ········~~<·· ::::::::::: !l:l:i :·:·:·:·:·: PRESENTS: ACT 1.: Leslie Shamilzadeh with Diane Pavacic ACT U: Jim Havard With the Mystery MC!! Tonite: 9:00 & 11 :OOstlOws • $1.50 tickets BE THERE! \Estimated Personal Expen- ses\ was an accurate and realistic figure. T_he responses were collated and reviewed by the Financial Aid Committe.e and the ·results proved in- formative and thought- provoking for us. While the survey results served to con- firm the validity of many of our original premises, they have also caused us to change our thinking regarding some of the personal expense elements, and change the student budget it- self. TRAVEL EXPENSES. We currently include $250 in the student budget for travel ex- penses, and . will reta,i.IJ this figure in 1985-86. The survey shows that the average student living up to 500 miles roundtrip from Union travels home nine times per year at a cost of $29 per trip. This brings the total travel expense to $261 per year-just $11 more than the budgeted amount. Those who must travel more than 500 miles roundtrip make an average of three trips home per year at an average cost of $288 per trip. (The actual cost per trip ranged from $21 to $1,200.) The total average cost per year of $864 is $614 more than the $250 budgeted. To compensate for this, the Financial Aid Committee will be adding $600 to thE! budgets of students who live more than 500 miles roundtrip from the campus and who state that they have excessive travel costs. (The person who spends $21 per trip, for example, will not need an additional $600 for travel.) BOOKS AND SUPPLIES. This subject elicited more negative student comments on the survey form than any other, which makes our findings all the more interesting. While the 1984-85 student budget included $250 for books and supplies, the 1985-86 figure will be $300. This is but $27 shy of the survey results which show the average anual cost of books and supplies to 'be $327: $109 per term per student. Those of you who commented that books for your particular major are more expensive than those of any other should take note of these strikingly similar average Fall texm costs for books and supplies by discipline: Humanities $103 Social Sciences $100 Sciences $135 Engineering $121 OFF-CAMPUS ROOM AND BOARD. We currently include the same $3,070 for room and board in the off-campus students' budgets as we do for on-campus students. In 1985-86, that figure will be $3,290. The survey served to confirm our view, however, that it is less expensive to live off-campus than on-campus. Monthly rent and utilities range from $90 to $385 per student, with an average cost of $159. Over the ten months of an academic year, the average total cost of rent is $1,590. Weekly off-c;lmpus food costs range from $10 to $100, with an average cost of $32. Over the 33 weeks of an academic year, the average total cost of food is .. $1,056. The total average cost of off- campus room and board, then, is actually $2,646. This is several hundred dollars less than our standard budget figures of $3,070 in 1984-85, and $3,290 in 1985-86. At this time, however, we will not be in· stituting differential budgets for on- and off-campus students. If a student chooses to live off campus and is able to live less expensively than an on-campus student, she-he will directly receive the benefit of the lower cost of living. Conversely, the student who spends $385 per month for rent will not receive any additional aid because it is possible for him-her to live much less expensively. ENTERTAINMENT AND INCIDENTALS. On this sub- ject, the survey has confirmed what the Union students and the Financail Aid Office have always known: we have op- posing views on how frugally students should live. In 1985-86, we are including $427 in the commuter budget for entertainment and incidentals. This is approximately $13 per week. The commuters who responded to the survey in- dicated that they actually spend an average of $20 per week, ranging from $5 to $25. The total for 33 weeks comes to $660. The 1985-86 on- and off- campus student budget will contain $487 for entertainment and incidentals. This is ap- proximately $15 per week. The survey responses indicated that the actual average weekly expenditure is $23, ranging from $3 to $100. The total for 33 weeks comes to $759. In 1985-86, we will not be raising the 1984-85 \en- tertainment and incidentals'' figure by the approximately $250 that the survey indicated students actually spend. The reason for this is two-fold. First, we believe that it is possible for students to live less expensively. Indeed, the survey Continued on page 1

Page6 CONCORDIENSJS, February 28, 1985 ATTENTION Political Sci.ence, History and Economics majors! Are you in- terested in applying your academic background to real world problems? Become a member of Union's delegation to the National Model United Nations in New Yor.k City. The International Relations Club will be sponsoring a delegation representing the country of Ireland. Don't delay! For more in- formation contact Eric Cook at 6977, Box 469, TODAY! .. --·------------------------ .. I \Hair- today, gone tomorrow\ I I PERMAN:ENT HAIR REMOVAL I I We u<..e the ell new -.hortwave INSTANTRON electrolys•~ eqv•pment, feoturmg ond provJc-lrng the be~! most 1 (omfortoble treatment for the removal of unwanted ha1r on tne FACE. ARMS. lEGS t~nd BODY I *FREE CONSULTATION* FREE DEMONSTRATION* FREE BROCHURE ON REQUEST* I ! FREE TREITNENT I I and 20°A» OFF ON ANY FUTURE I I TREATMENTS WITHtN 30 DAYS! I I I New Patients only, when ad i~.presen1ed on initial visit alono.IO<.tion.only. Valid thru 3/9/85 1 1 CC28 1 · VIS4\ ALICE A. BAKER, INC. I I Est. 1972 Graduate of Kree Institute * Member. of N. Y;E.A., U.A. and the Guild! I I •. 121 Canal Square, Schenectady 382-0087 I I 363 C!::NTRAl AVE., ALBANY, N.Y. 12206 462-5678 I ---------------------------~ College Party Week Includes: • Round I rip JP.t flight from New York or Boston. Add $20 from Baltimore; $40 from Philadelphia. • 7 nights in Bermuda. Choice of lodging. • Bermuda College Weeks sponsored by the Department of Tourism. Free. beach parties, dances, barbeque lunches, live rock bands, harbour cruises. • Full breakfast and dinner daily with choice of menu (with hotel meal package). • Round trip transfers between Bermuda airport and your accommodations. • Discount moped rentals available. • Fully equipped kitchenettes (with deluxe apartment complexes). • On location professional lour escorts. Don't miss out on the trip of the year! Send your deposit today. TRIP DATES AND PRICES Feb Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Apr Apr Apr Apr Lodging 23 2 9 16 23 30 6 13 20 27 Guesthouse $299 $299 $299 $299 $299 $299 $299 $299 $299 $299 Deluxe Apartment Complexe~ 319 319 319 319 319 319 319 319 319 319 Mermaid Beach wtthout meal! 369 369 369 369 369 369 369 369 369 369 Mermaid Beach with meals 509 509 509 509 509 509 509 509 509 509 May May May May Jun Jun Jun Jun Jun Lodging 4 11 18 25 1 8 15 22 29 Guesthouse 359 359 359 359 359 359 359 359 359 Deluxe Apartment Complexe~ 399 399 399 399 399 399 399 399 399 Mermaid Beach without meal: 449 449 449 449 449 449 449 449 449 Mermatd Beach with meals 589 589 589 589 589 51}9 589 589 589 All prices pius 15% lax & services • 525 price increase.is now in eflect and must be added to above prices. ---------------------~-~~--~--~------ 501 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10022 • (212) 355-4705 EncloaediaS (SSOct.posllporporson) Flight deair.cl from------- Trip Oaportu,. Data __ School_. _____ ------··-- Today'sdate ------ Check One: : . Gueathouse ; ~ Deluxe Apartment Complexes Hotel without meats Hotel with meal~ LAST NAME Ms/Mr First -- ---- Age ___ _ Addrasa ----------- CitY ----·--~------·~-- Slaltt -----------··--Zip __ Pttofta -----. -- ---~--- 1 '~'\' .. ,~ WRUC TRIVIA 19.7 f• • su••o F\ . 1 W kl 1na ee . Tune in Sunday, March 3 at 8 p.m. ASK ABOUT O'UR -·· \.-. = .. -·-.-----.· .. ' ' ' ' YOU DESERVE SOME CREDIT .. e YOU'VE EARNED IT. ORANGE MOTORS CO. Call: DENNIS HURLEY, JR. i99 Central Ave., Albany, NY 489-5414 -·----FiiiiRiiAsoNs-cHiNisE.RESTA uRANTl · fJ' Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 Hours:.sun-T.h~ 11:30-10:00 · I . Specia6ze in Cantonese Fn-sat 11:30-11 : oo I ' Closed Mondays i, • Szechuan~ Hunan TakeOut or Eat In We prepare our foods with • . . 1 . Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance _ ·1 0% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only .. W /Student I.D. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn ta_.,._..,~~--~D-~~~-a-041111a .. a_a_a~ ... o-n_a_a_ '~ ~-~..o VIA VENETO CAFE A new bar at the Appian Way Invites You To UNION COLLEGE NIGHT Tonight from 9-2 a.m • Specials Include *rigatoni bolognese $3.50 * individual, homemade Pizzas w/unique toppings--$1.75 *mixed drinks--$1.00 *and more! This Friday: LADIES NIGHT Special· Mixed Drinks $1.00 Domestic Beer SO<: Now Open Sundays 1 p.m.-9 p .• m. 1841 Van Vranken *Special Sunday .Dinners: Homecooked Italian Specialties

I I CONCORDIEN$f.S, February 28, 1985 FEAT'URES Profile Professor Loves Work By ALESIA HENRY Professor of civil engineering Henry Barlowe has been teaching at Union College for quite some time-forty-five years to be exact. For twenty- nine of those years he has been chairman of the civil engineering department. Professor Harlowe has taught twenty-two subjects, most of which are no longer taught at Union. Harlowe has not spent all of his time just teaching, however. He has also been active in keeping the Union College grounds, particularly Jackson's Garden. As you go into the Garden, on the right you can see the herb garden that Barlowe has helped to design and plant. The herb garden was made possible by a gift of fifty thousand dollars by the late president of the Thompson Drug Company in Troy, and twenty thousand dollars was also given to maintain the herb garden. Barlowe knows quite a bit about Jackson's Garden. \Jackson's Garden goes way back to 1834. Jackson was a mathematics professor who started the Garden at that time. Many of the specimens that he planted in the Garden were sent to him by former students, many of whom had gone aboad; some were missionaries, and some were in the foreign ser- vice at one time or another ... the Garden is used a great deal by students in the latter part of the spring when they go down there and study. it is also used by the college for outside func- tions such as the President's Reception on Parent's Weekend, the Homecoming Reception in the fall, and Commencement Activities in the spring. 'So the Garden gets considerable use. It's also used by tfle townspeople.\ Aside from having the pleasure of seeing Jackson's Garden grow and flourish under his care, Professor Harlowe has seen many developments in the landscaping and architecture of the College as well. \There were ahnost no buildings built on this campus from the time they finished the original plan up until the early twentieth century when Memorial Chapel was built and the Carnegie building. But from that time on, there was nothing built lip until about 1950. There was a very long period of no construction at all. In fact, Dickson Ryan Fox, the first President of the College that I worked under, was proud of the fact that the only cn- struction on campus while he was President was the fireplace down in Jackson's Gardens that he built because his wife in- sisted upon it. West college was the first of the dormitories that was built, then Richmond House.\ One might wonder where the students lived when they came to Union College. Barlowe explains that Union was the founding spot of many of the fraternities, and the fraternities were very strong on campus. \When I came to Union College,\ he explains, \most of the students lived in the fraternity houses and ate their meals at the fraternity dining tables. The only other place to eat on campus at that time was Hale House.\ After Richmond House was built in about 1950, the frater- nity houses and dormitories on Lenox Road were built, and then, finally, Fox and Davidson dorms. Harlowe also notes ' \When I came to the campus, there were many faculty living on the campus. There were a dozen or more faculty residences, and they have now become used for other things. The direetor of athletics used to live where the career center is now. Also, many of the old faculty_ residences have now become student residences and fraternity houses.'' When the ground had to be beautified after the dormitories were built, Harlowe also had a ha:nd in that. ''Professor Huntley has actually been the guiding light when it came to the campus plannings. We started about thrity years ago meeting several times a year to plan what would be planted in the following spring. I'd say that almost all of the trees on the campus, except for the really big ones, have been planted in that thirty year period.'' Professor Harlowe has seen many dramatic changes take place at Union College in the forty-five years he has been teaching here, one of which was the admission of women to the college in 1970. \The admission of women came gradually at about a hundred a year. I originally told the football coach that I thought we'd probably get the same number of women out for civil engineering as he did for football, but it didn't work out that way at all. \There have been some very nice additions to our civil engineering classes, but they're still quite a minority up here. We're happy if we can graduate three or four women in a year in civil engineering. They're more likely to go into, if they're mathematically oriented, the sciences or electrical engineering or even mechanical engineering. Civil engineering is a good field, however, for women to get into because many employers would really rather take in more women than men at this' time because they're so one sided with men in their organizations. Barlowe also contends that the admission of women to Union was one of the best things Union could have done because \single sex schools aren't that popular anymore. I think we'd be in terrible shape if we hadn't. We were among the first colleges, I think, to take women into what had been strictly a male setting.\ Barlowe believes that all of his years spent at Union College are beginning to pay off. He says, \I'm having more fun now than I've ever had in my whole college career, because I have time to do some of the things I enjoy doing. One of the ad- vantages of being the old man on the campus is that you don't get put on 1 committees. Last Issue of Concordiensis Will Be March 7 , Publication will Resume on Aprilll I'm teaching a regular load of courses, and I really enjoy that. I also have the chance to do some research now which is a real thrill. The time I used to spend pushing papers and at~ tending committee meetings, I can now spend doing something useful like research. I can't wait to get up here in the morning and see what's happened overnight, as you can probably tell by my office hours.\ And anyone who has ever seen Professor Harlowe's office hours will not doubt that he loves his work. Prof. Harlow, Professor of Civi:l Engineering. Israel and the Media BY SCOTT BURNSTEIN One of the most important issues to have surfaced in recent years has been the role of the news media in American society. As evidenced by the recent interest in both the Sharon v. Time and West- moreland v. CBS trials, TV news organizations are coming under increasingly closer scrutiny. The issue is of great concern because of growing sentiment that the news media, par- ticularly the 3 major network news organizations, have about as much influence in national affairs as elected officials. In 1980, ABC, NBC and CBS were widely accused of having helped Ronald Reagan achieve a significant victory over in- cumbent Jimmy Carter by projecting Reagan as the winner as early as 3-4 hours before polls in Western states had closed. There are those .of course, who argue that Jimmy Carter, when Govenor of Georgia, appeared on the game show \What's My Line\ was himself a creation of the media. The issue of . ''advocacy journalism'' was addressed on campus last week at the showing of \NBC in Lebanon: A Study of Media Misrepresen- tation\ sponsor:ed by the- Jewish Student Union. The film, produced by \Americans for a Safe Israel\ is an examination of NBC roews coverage of events in Lebanon from June 4 to August 31, 1982. Using excerpts from its nightly news reports, the documentary attempts to prove that NBC regularly distorted the truth in an attempt to discredit Israel to the American public. Early in the Israeli invasion, NBC reported that in one Lebanese t-own 10,000 people had died and 600,000 had been made homeless as a result of Israeli air and artillery attacks. Upon closer examination, Israeli sources revealed that the Lebanese town in question, had fewer than 600,000 inhabit ants and that the actual casulty figures were about 450 dead and 1000 homeless. The film attributes NBC's error to its failure to check its sources. The ·grossly exaggerated casulty figures had been provided by the local Red Crescent (the Arab equivalent to the Red Cross), a PLO controlled group, run by the brother of PLO leader Yasir Arafat. Many news organizations, including the New York Times, which had also published these reports later issued retractions, but not NBC. \American's for a Safe Israel\ accuse NBC of having adopted Arab phraseology and viewpoints in an effort to glorify Pocket Money Continued from page 5 . shows that people on the ex- who wrote, \I am an extremely ' treme low end of the scale spend frugal person and adjusting for only $3 to $5 per week. We are inflation, I can live even not advocating that all students cheaper than Ben Franklin. \Or adopt such a lifestyle; the point you can stop by the Financial is, it can be done. Aid Office for a pamphlet on And it should be done, how to create a personal because, secondly, the budget. Financial Aid Budget cannot support every student in the style which he-she wouJ.d like. Union's total financial aid dollars are li{nited, and to make them stretch and thereby reach all of our students we are only able to help with necessities. (We agree that an occasional night out constitutes a necessity.) To provide each .of the 1,046 financial aid ap- plicants with an additional $250 for entertainment and in- cidentals would require $261,500. This expenditure would serve to deny assistance to sixty Union College ap- plicants. To the student who spends $100 per week on entertainment and incidentals who commented on his-her survey form that \Life is a party,\ you and the student who spends $70 per week and coi11Ihented, \Beer and entertainment (are) big considerations. I live well,\ could learn ·rrom the student Many students commented that their personal expenses were unusually high-- particularly in the senior year- due to such necessities as graduate and professional school applications and in- terviews, job interviews, ap- propriate clothing for these ventures, etc. Additional assistance may be available to fund these necessary ex~ penditures. You may apply in writing to the Financial Aid Office, stating the amount you need and its purpose. The members of the Financial Aid Office staff are accessible, and Interested in hearing your views. We will be ac~ commodating whenever possible, and when impossible, respect your right to voice your opinion. We welcome all comments or questions you may have regarding the survey. the PLO and defame the Israeli military. Yasir Arafat was regularly shown kissing babies and walking among children, while his terrorists were por- trayed as oppressed, honest and decent family men whose only desire was a Palestinean homeland and peace with Israel. Never did NBC give mention to the covenant of the PLO which calls for the destruction of Israel. Among some of the most biased reporting came from senior NBC newsman John Chan- cellor. In the same report, Chancellor referred to the Syrian backed Druse Walid Jumblat as a \left wing leader\ while the Israeli supported Maronite Bashir Gemayel was labeled a \blood thirsty young Christian.\ Americans viewing NBC news in the summer of 1982 learned from Chancellor that for the PLO, \West Beirut was their Stalingrad\ and that Israel had evolved into an \imperialist\ and \savage\ state. Throughout the war, Israel was accused of having in- discriminately bombed Lebanese schools, hospitals and apartment buildings, killing thousands of innocent civilians. Little mention was given to the fact that the PLO regularly used churches, schools and hospitals as anns depots and held all of their meetings within the most populated areas of Beirut. According to the President of the American- Lebanese Committee, the \PLO had Lebanese citizens in a hostage situation.'' Captured PLO documents later revealed that it was PLO policy to in- tegrate themselves and their weaponry among Lebanese civilians. The documentary created by an avowedly pro-Israel group, never says what motive NBC; then run by Reuven Frank, could have for biasedly reporting the events in Lebanon. The film does however support its case against NBC by presenting a variety of \non-Zionist\ views. General Richard Carr (USAF), who visited Lebanon on a fact finding mission for the Defense Department, reporrted that the \Israeli military took every possible precaution to limit civilian casulties,\ and that \media reports did not conform to reality.'' US Representative Charles Wilson, a self proclaimed supporter of the PLO, also traveled through Lebanon and was convinced that there existed \total unanimity among the Lebanese in their support for Israeli efn forts to remove the PLO from Lebanon and was \impressed with the Israeli relief effort;' in the war ravaged areas of Lebanon.

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1985 C!Lvnrnrbirnsts Foundt-J al { lruon College 1877 --c---.-~-- ------- Chet and Andy's Lacking Last Sunday, Food Service and the Student Forum initiated Chet and Andy's Cafe as a substitute for the now defunct Late Nite Bites. This place was supposed to act as an alternative gathering for students not of the legal drinking age as did Late Nite as well as another place to socialize for the entire student body. Chet and Andy's is a commendable idea and shows much promise; however, it has proved to be a great disappointment thus far. Basically, Chet and Andy's is really an expanded pizza pub menu; students can order hot dogs, bagels, and donuts from the pizza pub, on top of its regular menu, and then move into the banquet room to sit and eat. This is hardly an alternative to Late Nite where waitresses would serve students in a candle-lit cabaret room. Also,if a student had not read Concordiensis then he or she might not have known about Chet and Andy's; there was no sign at the pizza pub announcing that Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday evenings are Chet and Andy's night. Even some of the students em- ployed at the pizza pub that evening were unaware of the event. In the past, the banquet room was left open . on nights that the pub was closed, therefore, the openmg of this room is now no novelty. Did it really take a formal act of Food Service and the Forum to unlock the banquet room door. Overall, Chet and Andy's proved to be an overblown idea without a substantial outcome. Food Service and the forum should work on Chet and Andy's to give the campus something it needs: a nice place to go and socialize with food and nonalcoholic beverages available. Expanding the pizza pub menu and opening the banquet room is just not good enough. Contraceptives The Student Forum ·has proposed that con- traceptives be sold on campus. The idea arose after a representative from the local Planned Parenthood had informed a member of the faculty that abortions among Union women were unusually high this year. Whether or not this fact is true, the proposal is a good one and should be seriously considered by the administration. Yes, non-prescription contraceptives can be had at any nearby drugstore. Even so, to sell them at the Health Center would be relatively easy and would be much more convenient for students. Many students feel inhibited over the idea of going to Planned Parenthood. Yes, students engaging in sexual activity should be mature enough to overcome their inhibitions about contraceptives. However this is no reason why they shouldn't be sold on campus. In addition, an educational campaign to accompany the sale of contraceptives would be beneficial to the campus. Many students probably think they know more about sex than they actually do. A refresher course would not hurt. In a college where most students are planning to enter professional careers, unwanted pregnancies are out of the question. An abortion is probably the most traumatic occurance in a woman's life. In a mature, educated environment such as Union a pregnancy because of failure to use birth control or to use it incorrectly is inexcusable. Regardless, there is little reason for condoms and foams not to be sold in the health center. Students do obviously engage in sexual activity and as such to make birth control a bit more convenient would not be unreasonable. · Concordiensis would like to congratulate the two new editors- in-chief for Spring ~nd Fall Terms: Sarah Calderini & Linda Raffaele Bloodmobile a Success To the Editor: A note of thanks to Delta Gamma and Theta Delta Chi for helping to make the Blood- mobile a success. The Blood- mobile was held in Strauss Lounge, Feb. 13, 14, and 15. We· had 37 new donors. Union came through again. Thank you Lorraine T. Marra Reply to WRUC Criticis.m· To the Editor: In last week's Concordiensis, a letter appeared which made various charges regarding the format of the recent interview of some Right to Life speakers on WRUC. Asthe coordinator of the show, I would like to refute the charges that were made, These speakers were in- terviewed because they had just given a presentation on cam- pus, sponsored by the Union College Pro-Life Forum. The interview itself, however, was not sponsored by the UCPLF, but was a special feature of my weekly radio show. Because the speakers were from right to me · groups, they naturally presented a right to life per- spective on the issue. Someone with a different viewpoint would also, I hope, have the right to present their ideas. Also, as stated in the previous letter, a disclaimer was read al the end of the interview releasing WRUC and the WRUC executive board form responsability for the content of the interview, because the content consisted of the per- sonal views of the interviewees. This is the sole purpGse of a disclaimer, even though last week's letter implied that a disclaimer should be a statement negating the views just put forth. Again, in last week's letter, it was stated .that the opposing viewpoint was presented by an ''uninformed student\ using ''inferior equipment\. To whom was the writer referring? Perhaps to one of the callers? In that case, the reason for inferior broadcast quality was the simple fact that the caller was using the telephone. The writer also stated that the interviewer \cut off\ callers. In any radio program, including this one, callers are allowed a limited amount of air time, so that other callers may have an opportunity to voice their views. On my show, each caller was allowed at least ten minutes, one person over half an hour, on the phone but certain people had to be cut off after the time limit because there were others waiting on the line to get a chance to speak. With regard to the Pro-Life Forum's \membership drive at the end\ it was only dght that the UCPLF's president should be able to say a few words, since they had sponsored the presentation preceeding the radio show that night. In conclusion, I believe that last week's Jetter would not have been written if the author had been more aware of the facts. He made such comments as \What probably happened was ... \ if he had wanted -to obtain the facts before writing the letter, he could have con- tacted me (the disc jockey that night), Pro-Life Forum President Paul Edwards, in- terviewer Debi Ballard, or simply read the advertisements in Concordiensis and on various bulletin boards throughout the campus. I hope this matter has now been clarified. Sincerely, John D. Bak WRUC Responds To the Editor: After reading \Counter Perspective Absent\ by Eric Maniloff on the editorial pages of Concordiensis' February 21 edition, the management of WRUC is compelled to attempt clarification of several misconceptions in the letter. I should preface this rebuttal by stating that my own views on the topic of abortion are decidedly Pro-choice, as are those of some of the other members of the Executive Board. Our views, though, are not at issue here, nor are they our point of contention. Referring now to the letter, Mr. Maniloff must not have been listening too closely to the February 14 broadcast, for there was no \Pro-Choice representative\ on the panel! WRUS was offered the op- portunity to host a live in- terview and call-in with three women involved in the Pro-Life movement who had biven a presentation of their stand earlier in the day on campus. The station has been making a conscious effort to expand special programming, of which interviews are an integral part. A radio interview, as Mr. Maniloff would learn if he listened to talk shows on most any other station, need not sport · guests espousing all viewpoints of a given issue. This particular interview involved people who have studied, and are sympathetic to, the Pro-Life position. It was not Letters editor to the and · commentaries do not necessaril-y reflect the opinions of the . editorial- board of Concordiensis. advertised as a debate. Should we be presented an opportunity to speak with knowledgeable Pro-Choice supporters on the air, I, for one, would lead the crusade to find a spot for it. In fact, Mr. Maniloff, you have been a D.J. and newscaster at WRUC and know how to operate the equipment. Why don't you offer to host an interview with some area Pro-Choice people? In closing, I must emphasize that an appropriate disclaimer was indeed read at the end of the February 14 interview which stated that the views expressed did not necessarily represent those of the management of WRUC. This format is customary and generally accepted. Participation in our call-in shows and comments regarding our programming are always welcome. Remember, though, that general attacks on the station for permitting special- guest broadcasts that represent beliefs to which one does not subscribe only indicate a closed mind. Douglas E. Landon for the WRUC Executive Board

a at ed to or ~d =~·- CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1985 Page9 LETTERS To Better Our Union To Union: I am happy that the Con- cordienses has noted that ''The Student Forum, it seems, has surprised (them) after all.\ As President of the Student Forum, I would like to add to this comment. After writing the long a waite@ bylaws, opening an office, initiating. and c0-'hosting the Pep· Rally, codevelopi_ng the new \Chet and Andy Cafe\ co- coordinating the Phi Beta Kappa-Student Forum discussion series, and so on, the Student Forum has another surprise--a program \To Better Our Union''. The program is a set of projects which are to provide us students with the means ami the initiative to break from the normal learning experiences at Union. In other words, the program's aim is to get students involved with, and thinking about, matters not directly related to the classroom. The program's aim is \To Better Our Union\. As of now, the program in- cludes projects such as coor- dinating a special colloquia series for our student activity's clubs. During this series, clubs, such as the Political Forum or the Pre•Health Society, will give a presentation. Another project is aiding in next term's Wednesday afternoon colloquia to assure student participation and knowledge of the events. Along with these two projects, the Student Fo·rum is developing 'four other projects for the program. President Morris noted that it is his hope that Union · will \teach students to think more broadly and understand more deeply so that they sense who they are and are better fitted to live. CoHege is not just a transfer station to a job.\ Though I have not used Union as a \transfer station,\ I believe, after four years, I have not likely taken advantage of the extra-curricular educational opportunities which are possible at this college. We, as students, must motivate ourselves to expand our knowledge and un- derstanding. The Student Forum is attempting to help in this process. If you would like to help, or have any of your own ideas, stop in to our office or write us at Box 2541. After all, our time in college is a time to learn, and we should take full advantage of it. Sincerely, Steven I. Benson, President, Student Forum 1984-85 Spring Term Registration Procedures Spring term classes will begin at 8:30a.m. on Monday, April 1st. Student schedules will be distributed to campus mailboxes prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Alumni Gymnasium beginning at 8:00a.m. on the first day of classes. Formal reg.istration and validation of I.D. cards will take place in Alumni Gym- nasium on Monday and Tuesday, Aprillst and 2nd. Students should register according to the following schedule unles there is a COI}fl ict with a class: Last Name Report A- E .......................................... Monday morning, 8:30-11:.30 a.m. F- K .......................... , ............... Monday afternoon, 1:00-4:00 p.m. L- R .......................................... Tuesday morning, 8:30-11:30 a.m. s- z .......................................... Tuesday afternoon, 1:00-4:00 p.m. Registration will not be .permitted if a student has not settled his/her spring term bill or any other outstanding debts owed the College. A representative of the Business Office will be present ay the Gymnasium to handle late payments of term bills and to help reso.lve any billing problems _ Students are reminded that completion of formal registration procedures· is required of all students regardless of whether or not a student has preregistered. Failure to register may. jeopardize financial aid awards and academic credit. Registration after Wednesday, April 3rd will be considered late and a fee of $25 will be assessed. This fee must be paid prior to registration Schedule Changes In addition to formal registratinn, schedule changes (the adding and/or dropping of courses) may be done at Alumni Gymnasium from Monday, April 1st thru Wednesday, April 3rd and thereafter at the Registrar's Office in Silliman Hall. T}le last day for making schedule changes without special permission, as well as the last day to declare \pass-fail\ intentions .for a course, is Friday, April 5th. Any course dropped after that date will result in a grade of \W'' (Withdraw). THINK SPRING THINK PARENTS' WEEKEND MAY 10,11 &12 All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- .mitted by 4p.m. each Tuesday before pub! icati- on. All letters must be signed but names wi.ll be withheld upon request. The Arts Department is conducting a third year evaluation for Martin Benjamin and is solidting the views of the Campus Com- munity with regard to Professor Benjamin's teaching, scholarly at· tivity and college service. Please reply to Hugh Allen Wilson as soon as possible. Homecoming '85 All students interesled in helping with Homecoming Weekend (October 25-27) are invited to attend the Homecoming Weekend on Thursday, February 28 4:30p.m. Banquet Room • Carnegie Receiving TAP? Important legislative Lobby Day For 1985 TAP Increase Tuesday, March 5 For information call Adam X8616 Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a leHer to the editor COMMENTARIES From Where I Standi By WAYNE JOSEL As a public setvice of Con- cordiensis and this column, I would like to present my handy guide to preregistration, en- titled, \Against All Odds: Finding Three Interesting Courses, Beating The Registrar at His Own Game, and Still Preserving The Sanctity of Having No 8:30 Classes and Wednesday Mornings Free.'' As all of you must have realized by now, the trimesterly ritual is once agairi upon us, and the registrar has once again changed the rules. Although it seems that one would need a college degree just to register here -at Union, I think I have mastered the art, aN.d I still have one term to go. The first problem to address when approaching preregistration is deciding what ·our priorities for the next term 1ill be. These will change from ,Jerson to person. Some feel that graduation requirements are the first thing to get out of the way: If this is the case, begin by computing what courses are a must for you. Then knock off the ones already taken, and the ones that are not offered next term. For selection from the remaining options there are several preferred methods including the coin, the stairs, or the dart board. The reason that this \selection on faith\ works is that trying to ask friends and acquaintances which courses to take, (a commonly attempted approach), will yield little real benefit. The reason for this is that for· any given class or professor you will find ten reasons to kill your family to get in the class, and ten reasons to avoid it like tht: plague. These disparate opinions seem to dispell most suggestions that Union's student body is too homogeneous. In either case one should look at the random selection of requirements as adding a little excitement to an unavoidable task. Those of you out there who have completed all of their requirements should probably just· use the dart hoard method and then go to the Skellar because it really won't matter what happens anyway, right? The next problem to tackle is actually going through the process of preregistering. A web of complications set up by the Registrar's office in an effort to totally confuse the campus, thus assuring that no one will be looking when they take off for Bermuda during Spring Break. Through tran• slating the instructions on the front page of the preregistration packet I have discovered that \card courses\ and \list courses\ are now one and the same. You now sign up on a list and then get a card two days later. Its funny how the Registrar finally caught on to a system that has already been used with a fair amount of success in some select depart- ments for terms. Since by the time you read this most will have already signed up for cards and are waiting for word from Sinai's summit that you can preregister for the class, I will add a word of encouragement for you people that either missed the list, or miss getting a card: Do not despair! In three and two thirds years at this school, most of my peers and I have discovered that you can gain entrance to any class by talking to a most unlikely person, the professor of that class. He usually runs the show, regardless of what the Registrar may say. In fact this method can be used as late as the first week of classes next term. Just show up early and get into a seat. Professors usually won't throw you out at that point. Then go register for the class. The last step in this term's revised preregistration procedure is actually going to the Registrar's office and signing up for classes. It seems that · times have been prearranged by some divine method known only to the gang in Silliman. Its obvious that those folks who are not registering at 8:30 Monday morning may have a problem getting into those \non-list\ classes. When the Registrar tells you that you absolutely can't get into that class, don't kick and scream about your requirements, or about how this is your last chance to take the class, etc. The Registrar has no compassion for such reasonable talk. Just pull out a $5 bill and tell your nemesis to have fun over the break- Well there it is the definitive · guide. Now let's go out there and do it to them, before they do it to us! On March 7th, the distinguished Vermont poet, John Engels, will read his work on the Union CoJiege campus, sponsored by the English Department with the support of Poets & Writers through the New York State Council on. the Arts for Literature. At 3:30 p.m., Mr. Engels will lecture on con- temporary poetry in the Humanities Lounge, · Humanities Center at Union C~llege and on the evening of March 7th at 8:00 p.m., he will read his poems in Hale House, Lower Lounge. Mr. Engels has taught at Emory University, Sweet Briar College, the UVM Writers' Workshops and at St. Michael's College since 1962. He has been awarded Guggenheim and NEA Fellowships for his poetry and is the author of five volumes of poetry, the most recent being, \Weather-Fear: New and Selected Poems, 1958-1982,'' University of Georgia Press. He is currently working on a collection entitled 11 Cardinals in the Ice Age\ to be published in 1987. The critic and poet, Hayden Carruth says about John Engel's poetry: \No slack meters or conversational diction for him. His poems resound. He is not afraid of sonority, of booming cadences • • • He obviously belongs in the rank of poets gifted with verbal and visionary powers.\

Page 10 CONCORDIENS/S, February 28, 1985 CAREER NEWS Internships & Fellowships (information available at the Career Development Center) Alfred University offers a graduate ·,program assistant- ship for students interested iN a Master of Science in Education. Financial assistance will defray the cost through a Resident Director position. The position provides meals, housing, tuition and $3,600. The Department of Biology at the State University of New York College of Fredonia has openings for Graduate Teaching Assistantships. The three areas of study are molecular-cell, ecology or physiology. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority offers a part-time internships position preferably to graduate students. The intern will be involved in evaluating ERDA's research program. Council for Opportunity in Graduate Management Education (COGME) offers fellowships to Afro-Americans, American Indians, Asian- Americans, and Hispanic Americans interested in the field of Management. Application Deadline: April15, 1985. The Tricentenilial Com- mission of Albany is planning a celebration for the 300th an- niversary in 1986 and is seeking ideas and volunteers--interns to work at historic research, communications, marketing, writing, etc. Peabody College of Van~ derbilt University offers a scholarship program designed to recognize minority students with academic achievement. The program enables those students to further their education who would not otherwise be able to do so. The Education Department of the South Street Seaport Museum offers internships to students with a background in American History, Architec- ture, Education or related fields. Internships begin June 4 and extend through Labor Day. Application deadline: April 15, 1985. The New York State Senate Post Graduate Fellowships offers a journalism fellowship and a senate ·legislative fellowship. The fellowship program is from September 18, 1985 to August 6, 1986. Application deadline: May 15, 1985. Washington County Mental Health Services, Inc. offers graduate internships working with psychiatrically disabled adults in central Vermont. This is a one-year program with a Bachelor's degree required. The National Trust for Historjc Preservation is of- fering( internships to students interested in the Musewn field. Past interns have worked as Res.earch Assistants, Actress, Curatorial Research Assistant, Historic Site Maintenance Technician, Historic House Musewn Manager, and Special Exhibit Research Assistant. Application deadline: March 31, 1985. ATTENTION all students interested .in health related fields: Information on heaUh related internships for the sutnmer is available in the Pre- Health Library, Rm. 101, Ba.Uey Hall. Students interested should visit the library from 1 :00 p.m.- 3:00p.m. weekdays. SPEAKERS The Biology Department and Biology Club present Dr. AI Gustafson who will speakon Sex Steroid Binding Protein: Studies on its Conrol and Its Relationship to Androgen Action Thursday, February 28, 1985 at 4:30 o.m. in SS 016. . - ACTIVITIES Union College presents the 20th Annual New York State Undergraduate Psychology Conference April 19-21, 1985, featuring special guest speaker Professor Henry Gleitman of the University of Pennsylvania. The weekend will include Luncheon Colloquium Winter/Spring 1985 Monday, March 4, 1985 11 Women in Washington\ Audrey Sheppard, Dem. Senatorial Campaign Comm. Strauss Lounge Carnegie, 12:30 p.m. Tuesday, March s~ 1985 11 Women in a Man's World\ Panel Discussion Banquet Room, Carnegie, 12:30 p.m. Bring your lunch--coffee & tea will be served Acid Rain Panel Discussion Professors Hull, Kenny, Tobiessen & Underwood Wednesday, March 6 • 3:30 1. To what extent are the causes of acid rain natural and to what extent are they manmade? 2. As we continue in our present use of energy (with no change) .how great a problem will acid rain become to this country and to the world? 3. Does the acid rain problem warrant legislation?, If so, what kind? If not, how can we alleviate the problem without legislation? 4. If you believe that acid rain is a problem, do you think that the solution lies in moving toward the utilizati.on of renewable energy sources su.ch as solar and wind power, and relying less on certain non-renewable energy sources such as coal and oil? Cabaret Room, Carnegie Beer and Refreshments Served FREE banquets, entertainment workshaps and student presentations. All students and faculty are cordially invited. Registration fee is $15, or $20 if paid after April 5. Lynn Miller will be per- forming at the Dutch Hollow Pub on Fri. and Sat., March 1 and 2, at 10 p.m. He offers a blend of original material, folk music from the 60's and 70's along with the music of other contemporary felk musicians. Young adult fenune daNcers wanted for new dance ensemble being formed at Proctor's Theatre for featured role in Theatre's Gala '85 \That's Entertainment\ on Saturday, May 25, at 8 p.m. Audition date is Wednesday, February 27. at 7:30p.m . .at Proctor's Theatre. Qualifications: Young adults and up (female). Must have strong background in tap, jazz and some ballet. For additional information, contaCt public relations office at 382-3884. Invitation to a German Party. All present and former Ger-man students please come for an hour of entertainment and fun Monday, March 4, · 4:30-6:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge. There will be German music and a variety show featuring our most famous German students. Come and Enjoy! CLUB NE-WS Union College Pro-Life Forum will meet to plan Activities Monday, March 4 and 11 at 8 p.m. in Stage 2, 3rd Floor Carnegie. All are welcome to ·attend. Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Frig~r Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members welcome. Prayer-Scrl:pture Study Groups~Monday, March 4 at 5 p.m. and Wednesday, March 6 at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, March 4 at 8 p.m. in 45h floor, Lom'lge,~-carnegie. Sister Mary Evangelist, a native of St. John's will be our guest speaker. · Tutorial Program~Any Union student interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week primarily to 2nd graders of St. John the Evangelist School, please contact Liz Karazim, 370-6774. Confirmation-Any Union student who has not been confirmed and wishes to receive the Sacrament May 18 at St. John's please contact Sr. Joan who will arrange classes during the Spring Term to fit student · schedules. 370-6087. PERSONALS Now only 25¢ Each order forms are available in the Box Office and will be accepted with payment at the Concordy office on the. 4th floor of Carnegie Hall ACROSS 1 Kind of lock 5 Linger 91nsane 12 Great Lake 13 Competent 1<1 Rubber troo 15 DetacG<I 17 Note·ol scale 18 Golf mound 19ESC8P\<< 21 Liquid meast~re 23 Farm apparatus 27 Symbol for telluriUm 28Choose 29Swi18rlwr 31 Bone of body 3• French article 35 Instructor 38Sungod 39 Novelty 41 Pair 42 One of Castro's moo 44 Prlnttw's measure 46 Mixing, as dough 48 Citrus fruit: pl. 51 T rQded lor money 52 Artificial languagi) 53 Negative 55 HeaV)' hammer' 59 In music, high 60 One opposed 62 Bellow 63 Grain 64 Mexican laborer 65Wit'-OO DOWN 1 Dress border 2Macaw 3 Tille of respect Last Week's Puzzle Answer .,delll 5 Wllllced In-- 6 Hebrew month 7Sick 6 River duck IJ Grumble 10 Tc'ldfd sheltM 11 Anlteted antn\al 16 Raised the spirit ol 20 Priests' aaslatants 22 Italian: abbr. '23 Olthe same material 24 EntrMty 25 Anew: abbr. 26CI!Mr 30 Recollect 32 Country of Asia 33 Loud noise 36 Olvlng bird 37 Pert of ship: pl. 40 LOW9t' In r11nk 43 Prefix: 1wlce 45 Symbol for methyl 4 7 Ctmnlcal dye 48 FalSifier 49 Lazlly 50 Break suddenly 54 Single 56 Female~ ·57 Long, slender fish 56 BefO«< 61 Asians r G I ( i' c I! d

5 6 a CONCORDIENSJS, February 28, 1985 Pagell Theatre Party~Friday, March 1, anyone interested in attending Seven Brides for Seven Brother.s at- Proctor's meet Sr. Joan in front of Car- negie at 7: 15 p.m. We will pick up, half·price· tickets before the performance .for $9, $7.25 or $5.50. Yearbook meetings have been changed to Wednesday night at 7: 30 in the Yearbook Office (4th Floor Carnegie). We need your help! HELP WANTED HYANNIS, MASS.-Cape Cod, Massachusetts and the islands of Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard are affering thousands of interesting summer jobs to college students and teachers. For detailed information on how to apply send a LONG self- addressed STAMPED envelope to: 1985 SUMMER JOBS PROGRAM, Box 594, Room 12, Barnstable, MA 02630. Looking for student one af- ternoon weekly for household help - near campus. Please contact 377-7235. Evening telephone· sales-- cash pay. For more information please call Kathy or Bill at 374- 1492 or 374-5372. Housekeeper--Children's companion. Mature loving person to care for my home & school age children - 15 hours. per week during school. year and 25 hours per week during smnmer. $5.00 per hours-Own car required. Call 393-3260 on weekends after 6 p.m. or 370- 6259 during day. Student typing done-Please contact 370-5222. Mt. Pleasant area. Typing dane for students or professors. Please contact 370- 0692. Niskayuna area. CLASS/REDS Greyhound is offering a getaway. For only $99.00 you can go . anywhere Greyhound goes and return. You'll have 15 days, in addition to the date of sale; to complete your trip. All you have to do is show your College l.D. Card from February 15 to April 30 and go anywhere in the Continental United States. Attention Sophomore Class: If you have any ideas or com- plaints feel free to contact your student forum representatives: J.ulie Mountain, Box 39, x6411 ; Steve Moss, Box 33, x6759; Steve Lipsky, x6632. Thank you. Ttailways Lines, Inc. today announ~ed that no round trip fares Will exceed $98 for persons presenting a college iden- tification card at the time of purchase. Students are urged to contact their local TraHways terminal or agent for specifics on the new fares. The cqrrect telephone number for Professor David Peak is 6342, not 6344 as listed in the faculty staff directory. Engaged? Save money...,rent silk altar arrangements and bows for church pews-$35. Call Gen at 399-7761. All undergraduate students are encouraged to submit papers. Any type of psychology paper (empirical research, term .papers, independent study projects, theses, etc.) are ap- propriate. Submit three copies- of a summary (up to 1500 words) and a 50-word abstract by March 8 1 1985. For further ii\tformation contact your psychology department or : Dr. Jack Lipton, Department ·Of Psychology, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Attention Seniors. The Yearbook needs your candids for the 1985 Senior section. Bring any pictures to Mrs. Marra in the student activities office of you and your friends taken this year. (Ali pictures not used will be returned so please include your name and box number.) Deadliine March ·8. Anyone who purchased the 1984 Yearbook, the Supplement is available in the Student Activities Office. FRESHMA\\f 'IHfS Wf£/<.: FRESHI-'IAN IS . ATTP.CK£D BY NATIUE. 5 (OF 5(1-!E\J.JfCTI\DY) H~Y -WI-IflT AR.E. YOU GuYS DoirJ& lrJ 0() fZ. Root\'\ ( The Film Committee presents· on 3-13 \Indiana Jones and The Temple of Doom\ at 7:30 & 10:00. On 3-5 \From Russia With Love\ at 7, 9, 11. The second in a mini series of four Japanese films, titled \Gate of Hell,\ will be presented on 3-4 at 7:00 p.m. in ss 016. . ,PERSONALS To the patients and.nurses of the 700 South infirmary, Hang in there! Spring is almost here! Beware of any ''Chinese Noodles'' hanging around the kitchen table. Love,SGB CC) (K) Ris, a sperm cocktail . . for two . . . twice! LOVE-Happy Birthday to my favorite A Phi A. I miss you ... maybe this will pass ... I hope so! You're in my thoughts and in my heart. Ciao. MOM Congratulations Skating Dutchmen-Get psyched for playoffs-SHOOT down the Eagles!! Take it one game at a time. We'll be with you all the way] -JK & JB An advantage to being a meat eating society: protein is essential to the diet of all animals ... Frank-where wer.e,you in the wee hours of Monday morning- I'm sure you weren't discussing Chemistry all night long ... Hey, Frank. You better watch out with that nasal stuff. Didn't Dr. Ruth ever tell you that an unprotected nose can get you into trouble? The Story of E-Man. Once upon a time on a New Year's Eve in the not so distant past, a munchkin named E-Man went to a party .... TO BE CONTINUED! Beth, and Kris, is it really true that \good girls don't\? If so, how often don't you? How about Friday night? G£ T ouT oF OllfZ ROo t-1 1 YoU STUPID Lo SE.RS! Yours in bed, Uncle Fred DOt'I'T I~Y AtJYTHING I J,.Lllb SHooT MY- 5 f;LF IN -mE Hrfl.D! BUT lo Tf.l..L \11-IE:-- TI<-OTI-1 1 fU tJ k. •• , I i I'\\ NOT suP-f. ) f\ J PUT f5 UL:.Lf.T \5 I ,j -r7-/fr GUN c.l fZ flloT! So You :rv.sT HAV£ To tt$k youiUELF OIJ£ 1\+-i!NG f'UtJf:..- PO yvu F££L L1GkY ( f G<> '\\V· MA I:. E. MY DI\Y J I ~ Di~No kidding Dick Tracy~ I'll deal for you. Thank God you're at Union Di- That's the last time I let you protect me. S The Calvin Klein underwear man lives!!! Where? Wouldn't you all like to know? Lauren-should I fool around with Joe to get back at you for fooling areund with S.C.???? Sam-Wake up, Wake up. He's here, he won't leave and my parent~ are corning-at 6:00 in the morning! ! ! Congratulations Marjorie H., now Union has its own gnome to attract more of Daddy's little girls who are totally oblivious to the real world. A concerned citizen Jason, I know that it's been a long time since you have used one, but hallucination is no substitute. A concerned Roommate If I was too brutal over the weekend, I'm sorry CHow, Jane, etc.) Special apologies to Toby. Di Lauren, It's a shame only ONE of us has a boyfriend! Di Steph, Lauren-Fun time Saturday night!!! Let's get Sam and friend in on the next. one! Luv y'all lotz, Di Gavin, We've got Pictures!!! O.K_. L?uren, next time you sleep m my bed and I'll sleep in the· living room. Di Dave, your roommate is an animal! See you on my way to brunch, Di Stevie, I hope your alarm clock didn't get broken Sunday a.m. S!:Jrry, couldn't resist, Di Paul, take good care of the bears. You never know when we'll show up again at your door! BIGGEST DICK OF THE YEAR NOMINATIONS: (Soph. Category) 1 ) A (I wanna be an officer) H 2) A (pseudo-Pre-Med) H 3) A (only kicked out of 1 frat.) H 4) A (I have l friend) H The choice is obvious! Magic User: Are there any psychiatrists-in D & D? I owe you 2! Thanx again, Clarice C. To JB at SC: How Dare you ask for change for a dollar? For everyone's information: Annemarie (alias Wench) has her real birthday on March 19th-no jeke. MARK YOUR CALENDARS! Warning: shot bars can be hazardous to your reputation! Dear Clarice: Toast? Never! Thou shalt be a waffle! ~one slightly deranged DM \Did I do something wrong today, or has the world always been like this and I've been too wrapped up in myself to notice?\ -Arthur Philip Dent Richelle, Gin, J en, Sarah, .qnd Janet-Thanks for all the sup- port this season. You made a scary comeback much easier. -(L.) Cyndi L.W. Dear Jay K.: Sorry, the V.D. test came out positive. Michelle COMING EVENTS! Bob makes a big splash \Upstairs.\ Is that a good sign? To the Smurf Breeder, Do they have Smurfs in Germany? Thanks for the dance. Try not to be such a terms abroad throat. The Library Throat Lauren-What the f-, man? We are Madonna. From the only truck driver you know. Wanted 1957 Beta composite to complete collection. Who were those twQ lovely ladies in the bushes at Chi 'Psi? Jan and Samantha maybe? Dave F? Love that law school smile you've been wearing lately!!! Guillome-Have you been starving for 5 days??? Are you on a diet???? -JE Dear Nilgun, you sure are pretty. But where did you get such a funny name? -an ad- mirer YoU GJ\1£ VS AL.L OF You(( 5NOR~EL :Jf\Gk£15 t\ND PLAID PAtJT::. I ALL or- • . '1\1-/E:M • wow! Trf£JK f ASliT,-,1\Y$ AR.E.. HEY- Yov'R BLE. EVTN tJ OtJ youR $NORk£L j fULL-~ \

Page 12 Congratulations! ORIENTATION COMMinEE '85 Lisa Freed '86 Chairperson Janet Keyes '86 Vice-Chairperson Winston Bliss '87 Kelly Farrell'86 Andrew George '86 Josh Green '87 Jackie Jones '86 Kelly Larkin '8 7 Julie Mountain '87 Gina Padula '8 7 Charlene Schultz '87 Cindy Steinberg '86 Tammy Thomas '87 Mark Webster '88 John Zuk '87 CHET& ANDY'S CAFE From 8:00p.m. -12:00 a.m. in the Banquet Room every Sunday, Monday and Wednesday night Foods ordered from Pizza Pub counter: hot dogs, bagels, coffee, teas, danish, donuts. ALL ARE WELCOME All present and former German students are invited to: A GERMAN PARTY Monday, March 4 in Strauss Lounge from 4:30-6 p.m. Refreshments, Music German Conversation!! *** V2 Hour Variety Show *** CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1985 Your Bahamas College Week Includes: • Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the beach-within ·walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple· add- $50.00 Double add $100.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for bellman, chambermaids. an<;! pool man • College Week activities-sports, parties, music, fun. · Hotel Options . Nassau-Add $25.00 for deluxe Cable Beach Inn, add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel. SPACE FILLING OP FAST· -BOOK NOW!!!!! ··-·---------------------·· f l'-~·~\1~\ 212-355-4 705/800-223..0094 (reservations only) 1 1-o 1V Bahamas College Weeks 1 HER COUEGtAlf 0 Fd> 23-Mar 02 0 Apr 6-Apr 13 I 0 May J 8-May 25 I 0 Mar 02-Mar 09 0 Apr J 3-Apr 20 0 May 25-June 0 J HOliDAYS IHC. 0 Mar og:...Mar 16 0 Apr 20-Apr 27 d June OJ -June 08 1 501 Madison Avenue 0 Mar 16-Mar 23 0 Apr 27-May 04 0 Jooe 06-June J 5 New York. NY 10022 0 Mar 23-M.ar 30 0 May ~y II 0 June 15-June 22 I Che<:k 0~; 0 1'\ar 30-Apr 6 0 May II -May 18 I 0 FREEPORT n NASSAU Ottupancy . (S.t. departures) (Sat. departu=l 0 Quad U Triple [J Double I 0 Sounds good. I've checked !be wed< I w•nt to party and endosed a $I 00 deposit. I 0 Sand l!ro<hure I NoNAAu.E------------------~~==~------------ I ~==~-------------------------------- I ROOMMATES I ~~--------------~==~~~--------- I ADDRESS DEPJ\RTOOE OTY I ZJP PliNO I [ Campuo Rep/Oillce ~~~ ~based on departu,... from New York£, Boslon. (Add S20 from I BoUIIT\On! and $40-from Philaddphla). I E.tdltroveler musl fill out \\P\\'ltfonn. ·--·---·-···············--' em STI\TE

•••• !5 01 :08 15 22 I I I I I I I I I -· I -. -• I -· Ji ..... CONCORDIENSIS, Februarr 28, 1985 Page l3 THE. ARTS Marcel: Marvel By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Staff When one thinks of the great art forms (theater, music, dance, etc.), mime rarely springs to mind. Yet Marcel Marceau has spent a lifetime redefining that special craft and has succeeded in elevating it to the level of an art. In his prodigious thirty-nine year career, he has brought mime into the mainstream, starring in several \mimodramas in- cluding his silent version of Gogol's Overcoat. He has also done extensive one-man tours across the world, made numerous television ap- pearances, and even written and illustrated several children's books. Now 62, Marceau still spends much of his time on the stage, which is where he was Saturday night, as his current tour made a stop at Proctor's. Mime in small doses can be light and amusing, but a complete show of it (and Marceau did a full two hours, plus intermission) requires much concentration from the audience to decipher the wordless actions of the mime. In the case .of Marceau, it is time well spent; in such pieces as \The Small Cafe,\ his work was cryptically detailed, but very rewarding and fun. Not all of his skits are comic though; in several of his pieces (\The Angel, \The Creation of the World\) Marceau used allegory to make his statement, relying heavily or1 dance-like body movements and theatrical lighting and music. But even when one wasn't sure what was going on, the style and charm of the master carne through and Marceau was never less than fascinating to watch. The first half of the per- formance featured style pan- tomimes, with Marceau choosing six from his repertoire of thirty. The best of these was his classic \The Mask Maker,\ in which he alternates between a mask of happiness and a mask of grief. Marceau expertly juggles the facial expressions with remarkable speed, but gets the happiness mask stuck. In an incredible display of virtuosity, his entire body writhes and struggles to remove the mask- all the while; with an emormous smile frozen on his face. Comic Misadventures The second half of the show highlighted Marceau's famous character Bip, well-known for his comic misadventures. Marceau did several terrific Bip skits, including the hilarious \Bip Joins a Dating Service,\ \Bip as a Skater\ (which proved that he is one spry sexagenerian), and ~'Bip as David and Goliath,\ in which COMING IN MARCH The Oakroom Artists--Now-April 13, Ann Grey Gallery, Saratoga_ Call 584-6920 for in- formation. Admission is free. Museum Graphics Exhibition--Now- April 30, Soave Gallery, Saratoga. Call 587·8448 for information. Bag Lady--Feb. 28, March 1-2, Skidmore Theater, Saratoga, 8 p.m. Call 584-5000 for in- formation RigolettO-·Feb. 28, Proctor's Theatre, 3 p.m., Tickets, $20, $17,$12. Medea--Foy Campus Center Theatre, Siena College, Feb. 28-March 3. Call 7893-2527 for in- formation. Gary Aldrich in Concert--March 3, 3 p.m., Studio Theatre at the Egg, Call 473-3750 for information. Alexandre Lagoya·-Guitarist, March 8, Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, 8 p_m. Call 273-0038. Fifth of July--March 6-9, 12-16,8 -p.m., Studio Theatre of the University of Albany Performing Arts Center. Cal1457-8606. · The Prince and the Pauper--March 15-23, The Eg.g. Call473 -3750. Ice CapadeS··March 26-31, RPI Field House, Troy. Tiockets: $8 and $9 at Ticketron & CBO. 266- 6262 for information. Admission is free. Marceau alternated personas even quicker thq.n he did in \The Mask Maker.\ His most interesting piece, though, was the final selection, \Bip as a Soldier.\ Here our hero joins the army and though the bit starts out funny, it takes a serious turn as Bip's partner is shot in battle. Catching him, Marceau turns his back to the audience, wrapping his arms · around himself, with his hands clinging to his back, as though they were the hands of his wounded buddy, holding on to Bip for support. In a spec- tacular display of emotional drama, Bip watches as one hand suddenly shoots up in the air, then slowly turns limp with lifelessness as his friend dies in his arms. That Marceau has managed to turn mime into a medium capable of transmitting such complex emotions and dramatic punches (instead of just Walking-Against-the-Wind) . ·.;a true testament ot the man's genius. Unlike many mimes, he's not content to be merely flawless in technical movement. He pursues the possibilities of the forum to the most unlikely, difficult, and satisfying ends and, as he demonstrated Saturday, the boundaries for the art of mime are almost limitles:;. Famed mime artist, Marcel Marceau performed at Proctor's on Sat., Feb. 23 Spyro Gyra Explodes By JANICE THOMPSON and LINDA RAFFAELE Jazz favorites Spyro Gyra appeared at Proctors Theater last Sunday night. The concert, which was sponsored by the Union Concert Committee and WQBK-FM, was nothing less than amazing. Sunday night's performance gave witness to the fact that Spyro Gyra is one of the greatest jazz bands around today. Opening for Spyro Gyra was Dryjack, a Woodstock, N.Y.- based jazz group. A standard five-piece band of drums, keyboards, guitar, bass and vocals, it progressed in its musical selections from pieces dominated by the woman singer using various \scat\ techniques to show pieces, displaying each member's great skill in their different solo rides. The band was solid, and it is obvious that the musicians were used to playing together. After a twenty-minute in- termission, we came back for the star performance of Spyro Gyra. This band's brand of jazz is unique, with the addition of a marimba, xylophone, rhany different types of drums and keyboards, and a definite Latin style. It is easy listening, \feel good\ music at its best; the entire audience left Proctors with smiles on their faces. Each misician got his time in the spotlight, beginning with the song \Conversations.\ The band's dexterity was very apparent in this piece, in its differing tempos and solos, which seemed to symbolize the band's incredibly diverse at- titudes and styles. One of the highlights of the performance was bass player Kim Stone's solo. All other members of the band left the stage while Stone jammed alone, experimenting with different melodies to the delight uf the audience. Sunday night's audience obviously included many jazz enthusiasts. Many times during the performance percussionist Gerardo Velez jumped off the platform where he played and carne out to the front of the stage, clapping his hands high above his head and motioning for the audience to join along. The crowd's response was great. Everyone seemed to feel the beat and want to join in. Velez, in addition tc getting the audience to participate, added a lot to the performance, with his clever dancing while playing the bongos and other rythmic instruments. He was like a spark of electricity in the back of the stage, constantly jumping, spinning, dancing, and clapping. In fact, the whole band was very alive, a factor which definitely added to the audience's enthusiasm. Spyro Gyra closed the show with their classic \Morning Dance,\ but they came back for two fantastic encores. Anyone wf1o has heard Spyro Gyra's music will agree that it's great on tape, but much better live. The energy that the band generates on stage makes all the difference. Soap Star AtNott General Electric Foundation, Affiliate Artists and Proctor's Theatre make possible this solo \Infonnance\ of actor Michael Morin. Informance is an in- formative performance that enables Michael Morin to establish a lively dialogue with the audience. A unique blend of world-class artistry and candid conversation, the infonnance gives people an insider;s view of both the ,personal and professional sides of the artist. Morin has appeared in numerous off and off-off- Broadway productions, in- cluding Album at the Cherry Lane Theatre, Rio Grand at Playwrights Horizons, The Guitarron at the Theatre at St. Clements, Xreeps at Theatre 24, Genesis at La Marna E.T.C., and La Ronde at Equity Library Theatre. In addition, he has performed in over 25 staged readings at New Dramatists, most recently in 44 on 44, in which he played 18 different characters. Outside New York, Morin created the role of Billy, the cerebral palsied teenager in Leslie Lee's Between Now and Then at the Annenberg Center in Philadelphia. He also spent two seasons with the Philadelphia Drama Guild. Morin premiered his own, one- character play, Tallahasee, at the Second Annual New Play Festival of the People's Light and Theatre Company in Malvern, Pennsylvania, a po.werful chronicle Of John Spenkelink's life on Death Row. Tallahasee subsequently toured Pennsylvania prisons under a grant from the Philadelphia Foundation. Morin made his television debut as Joey DeMarco, the troublemaking student of Ben McFarren, on CBS' Guiding Light. Since then, he has been featured on Search For Tomorrow, All My Children, and The Doctor 1 s. His film credits include Godfather II, Manahattan, Rich and Famous, and The Five Thirty-Nine as part of PBS' short story series. This performance is presented by the Department of the Arts and will be shown at the Nott Memorial Theatre on friday, March 1 at 8 p.m. Admission is free.

~RDIENSIS, February 28, 1985 Week Includes; from your home city to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in dub like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the to everything}. Price based on quad occupancy. Tripled add-$50.00 transfers • Hotel room tax • Gratuities for bellman, • College Week activities-sports, parties, music, fun. · deluxe Cable Beach Inn, add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel first class Windward Palms Hotel. FILLING <JP FAST-- BOOK NOW!!!!! --------·--·-----------·-··· F I'~~~~·~\IG. \ 212-355-4 705/800-223-0694 (reservations only) J ~ 1 Bahamas College Weeks 1 0 Feb 23-Mar 02 0 Apr 6-Apt- 13 I 0 J'l\ay 18-May 25 I IHIIR :rE 0 Mar 02-Mar 09 0 Apr 13-Apr 20 0 May 25-June 0.1 HOUDAVS INC. 0 Mar o9:..Mar 16 0 Apr 20-Apr 27 0 June 0 I -June 08 I 501 Ma<llsonAvenue 0 Mar 16-Mar23 0 Apr27-May04 0 June08-Jooet5 New Yorlc, NV 10022 0 1'\ar 23-/ilar 30 0 May 04-May 11 0 Jtme 15-June 22 I Check One: 0 Mar 30-Apr 6 0 May 11-May 16 1 0 FREEPORT n NASSAU Occupancy (Sat. dopartures) (Sot. departures) 0 Quad 0 Triple U Double J 0 Sounds good. I've checke<Hhe week I w•ntlo poorty and enclosed a $ 100 ~it. J 0 Send l!tochu\' I SCI«llO. I ROOMMATES ADDRESS DEPARTURE OlY I I I I I •All pric:q plwo I !I'll. tax •nd ~: IC.mpuo Rep/~ PH NO 1: 1 1 Price l>osed an departures from New VOrl< C. Boston. (Add $20 from BeUimon! and S40 from Philadelphia). Uc:h traveler must fill out \\'\'rate·fonn. ---------·-·············' CONCORDIENSIS, February 2 Marcel: The Marvel By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Staff When one thinks of the great art forms (tbeater, music, dance, etc. l, mime rarely springs to mind. Yet Marcel Marceau has spent a lifetime redefining that special craft and has succeeded in elevating it to the level of an art. ln his prodigious thirty-nine year career, he has brought mime intothe mainstream, starring in several \tnimodramas in- cluding his silent version of Gogol's Overcoat. He has also done extensive one-man tours across the world, made numerous television ap- pearances, and even written and illustrated several children's books. Now 62, Marceau still spends much of his time on the stage, which is where he was Saturday night, as his current tour made a stop at Proctor's. Mime in small doses can be light and amusing, but a complete show of it (and Marceau did a full two hours, plus intermission) requires much concentration from the audience to decipher the wordless actions .of the mime. In the case of Marceau, it is time well spent; in such pieces as \The Small Cafe,\ his work was cryptically detailed, but very rewarding and fun. Not all of his Skits are comic thOugh; in several of his pieces (\The Angel, \The Creation of the World\) Marceau used allegory to make his statement, relying heavily on dance-like body movements and theatrical lighting and rnusic. But even when one wasn't sure what was going on, the style and charm of the master came through and Marceau was never less than fascinating to watch. The first half of the per- formance featured style pan· tomimes, with Marceau choosing six from his repertoire of thirty. The best of these was his 'classic \The Mask Maker,\ in which he alternates between a mask of happiness and a mask of grief. Marceau expertly juggles the facial expressions with remarkable speed, but gets the happiness mask stuck. In an incredible display of virtuosity, his entire body writhes and struggles to remove the mask~ all the while; with an emormous smile frozen on his face. Comic Misadventures The second half of the show highlighted Marceau's famous character Bip, well-known for his comic misadventures. Marceau did several terrific Bip skits, including the hilarious \Bip Joins a Dating Service,\ \Bip as a Skater\ (which proved that he is one spry sexagenerian), and \Bip as David and Goliath,\ in which COMING ·IN MARCH The Oakroom ArtistS--Now-April 13, Ann Grey Gallery, Saratoga. Call 584-6920 for in· formation. Admission is free. Museum Graphics Exhibition--Now- April 30, Soave Gallery, Saratoga. Call 587-8448 for information. Bag Lady·-Feb. 28, March 1-2, Skidmore Theater, Saratoga, 8 p.m. Call 584-5000 for in· formation RigolettO-·Feb. 28, Proctor's Theatre, 3 p.m., Tickets, $20, $17,$12. Medea-·Foy Campus center Theatre, Siena College, Feb. 28-March 3. Call 7893-2527 for in- formation. Gary Aldrich in Concert--March ·3, 3 p.m., Studio Theatre at the Egg. Call 473-3750 for information. Alexandre Lagoya--Guitarist, March 8, Troy Savings Bank Music Hall, 8 p.m. Call273-0038. Fifth of July--March 6-9, 12·16, 8 ·p.m., Studio Theatre of the University of Albany Performing Arts Center. Cal1457-8606. · The Prince and the Pauper--March 15-23, The Egg., Call 473 -3750. Ice CapadeS··March 26-31, RPI Field House, Troy. Tiockets: $8 and $9 at Ticketron & CBp. 266- 6262 for information. Admission is free. Marceau alternated person even quicker than he did \The Mask Maker.\ His me interesting piece, though, w the final selection, \Bip as Soldier.·· Here our hero joi the army and though the I starts out fwmy, it takes serious turn as Bip's partner shot ifl battle. Catching hit Marceau turns his back to t audience, wrapping his arr · around himself, with his han clinging to his back, as thou, they were the hands of l wounded buddy, holding on Hip for support. In a spE tacular display of emotior drama, Bip watches as o hand suddenly shoots up in t air, then slowly turns limp wi lifelessness as his friend dies his arms. That Marceau has manag to turn mime inlo a mediu capable of transmitting su complex emotions a1 dramatic punches (instead just Walking-Against-the-Win1 . ·.; a true testament ot the mar genius. Unlike many mim1 he's not content to be merE flawless in technic movement. He pursues t possibilities of the forwn to t most unlikely, difficult, a1 satisfying ends and, as demonstrated Saturday, t boundaries for the art of mir are almost limitless. Spyro By JANICE THOMPSON an£ LINDA RAFFAELE Jazz favorites Spyro Gy1 appeared at Proctors Theat1 last Sunday night. The concer which was sponsored by t1 Union Concert Committee ar WQBK-FM, was nothing Ie: than amazing. Sunday night . performance gave witness · the fact that Spyro Gyra is or of the greatest jazz bam around today. Opening for Spyro Gyra w< Dryjack, a Woodstock, N.Y based jazz group. A standar five-piece band of drum: keyboards, guitar, bass an vocals, it progressed in i1 musical selections from piecE dominated by the woman singE using various ''scat\ technique to show pieces, displaying eac member's great skill in thei different solo rides. The ban was solid, and it is obvious tha the musicians were used t playing together. After a twenty-minute ir termission, we came back fo the star performance of Spyr So General Electric Foundatior Affiliate Artists and Proctor' Theatre make possible this sol \Informance'' of actor Michal Morin. Informance is an ir formative performance tha enables Michael Morin t establish a lively dialogue wit the audience. A unique blend c world-class artistry and candi conversation, the informanc gives people an insider's view o both the _personal an' professional sides of the artisl Morin has appeared i1 numerous off and off-off Broadway productions, in eluding Album at the Cherr: Lane Theatre, Rio Grand a Playwrights Horizons, Th' Guitarron at the Theatre at St Clements, Xreeps at Theatre 24 Genesis at La Mama E.T.C.

IN BIOLOGY March 5th . • Strauss Lounge mai-, PHD '73-- Travenoi- cs, Boston Engel '76--NYS Dept. Conservation, Albany '79--Sidney Farber ~~Boston h:ms '83--Aibany Medical at 4:00p.m. to follow at 5:30 plan. to attend bring something Pizza ~ESENTS Product.· ~ D : toasted bun with butter and oregano and loaded with - ese. Ll KE IT!! . 95/serving eek's Special Rock-N-Roll Pizza dium Soda Free Pizza Party? and get a seventh free!! ours in advance. Great for ororities and dorms. good S . ' ~ iJrlng • ••• Term. ~ODY LEN ~ns will be. term 2, 3, 4 CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1985 lAM's Administrative & Engineering Systems Co.lloq.uium presents Harriet North District Manager,Advertising, New York Telephone who will speak on ''The Role of Research in The Advertising Development Proce-ss'' Today, Feb. 28, 3:45p.m. Bailey Hall, Room 312 SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT PEN. HAIR DESIGN Located on corner of Broadwly & Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts Sebastian Cellophanes $15.00 * We carry a full line of Ne-xus and Sebastian hair care products. 25% off retail with student I D. Do you have the right stuff? Get your career off to a flying start. Become a Marine aviator. If you're a college freshman, sophomore or junior, you could qualify for our unJ!_ergraduate Officer Commissioning Pro· gram and be guaranteed flight school after grad· uation. All trainingis conducted during the sum- See Captain W, W. Donahoe Jr at the Campus Center between !lam and Jpm nn 4&5 Mar RS <'r call 1-800-342- mer. There are no on-campus drills. Plus, you receive $100 a month during the school year. Seniors can qualify for the graduate Officer Commissioning Program and attend training after graduation. This is an excellent opportunity to prove yourself amongst the best and start off making from $17,000 to $25,000 a year_ See if you measure up. Check out the Marine Corps M~<E;~ Officer Commissioning Programs. Talking ByRJ.MORA The fourth concert in the \Traditions of Improvisation\ series was held last Jt'riday evening, February 22, in the Old Chapel. The attraction WqS Talking Drums, an ensemble of Ghanaian and American musicians and dancers. Th~y performed two sets: the first set featured traditional music of West Africa, and the second featured 'highlife' music, the popluar music of Ghana. Talking Drums opened with a processional piece from Nigeria, \Ibo\. Dressed in appropriate costume and playing drums and rattles, they slowly made their entrance from the Skellar side twoards the 'stage' on the west side of the Chapel. The rhythmn of the drums and rattles was oc- casionally interrupted by short vocal breaks. The second song, ''Bambaya\ was a North Ghanaian social dance. Most of the players took up drums, accompanied by one rattle and an 'atenteben'-a bamboo flute. The song changed tempos of- ten: master drummer Abraham Adzinyah led the changes with cues from his drumming. Accompanying this song were two dancers, Freeman Donkor and Miss Yaa Johnson. Booth were dressed as women. Originally a dance for the women only, in \Bambaya\ the men now dress up as women and dance to poke fun at the women. After the second song, Maxwell Amoh, lead vocalist, addressed the audience to explain a little bit about the origins of the songs. He remarked that African music is not a 'spectator' sport; the audience should also par- ticipate in the creation of the music. This point was well illustrated in songs of the fir the thirt:l song call-and-respc ween the auc dancers of the For the fourth za\ Miss Johm audience--do upstairs--to f dance. Soon th1 of ten brave following Miss they moved ir music. The last set again was dance. \Kpanlo just the 'gar bells--and ha Johnson again willing dancers, the song was i company of 30 1 dancing. Highlif, For the secon music, the em more 'conv1 struments--ele bass, and l saxophone ar Adzinyah descr \... a fusion bt temporary We~ African ( rhyth bination of j: sounds.\ In dee hits of jazz, cal. music, yet the st its own. For 4 band played songs, almost m initial hesitatim started to dance of the set, the many students reporter), profe a dean ( ! ) joim In all, the < resounding su< Drims gave an formance in audience (200 ferent style of 11 Florence: City of Fine Art Bonsanti By CARRIE CERRONE Dr. Giorgio Bonsanti, Director of the Galleria dell' Accademia in Florence, Italy, gave a fascinating lecture entitled \Conservation of Florentine Painting\ on February 19. The presentation was jointly sponsored by the Union College Arts Department and Schenectady Museum. Dr. Bonsanti studied at the University of Florence and in Vienna. He is currently Director of both the Medici Chapel in the New Sacristy of San Lorenzo and the Museum of the Convent of San Marco. Bonsanti is a visiting scholar for the Harvard Center in Florence and teaches restoration of fine art for Syracuse University in Florence. His lecture, which was complemented by a slide presentation, focused on the before and after restoration appearances of Fra Angelico's frescos in the Convent of San Marco and ~ Michelangelo Buonarroti's Tondo Doni. Frescoes Created by Fra Angelico The Convent of San Marco, built for the patron Cosimo de Medici, opened on the Epiphany in 1443. Most of the 45 monastery cells house frescoes created by Fra Angelico. The corridors cont; bearing more ' elegant gold ar contrasted to spirational and coes in the indivi exception is ce where the patr usually stayed l Pope slept dm Epiphany. Rest• San Marco began in 1976 l pleted in 1983. R twofold proce cleaning and 1 Ammonium ca1 cellulose paste remove dirt, r. varnish. The coJ solidification of which the .fresco accomplished jections into the transform sulfa bonates and, ther more stable cJ stance. The g< restorer is to pr' piece for· the mamtain as 11 original color <J possible. Bonsan \damaged orig better than a re Tondi I The second p1 Bonsanti' s dis< centrated on M Tondi Doni which have been complE

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1985 THE ARTS Andre Kertesz, whose photographs are on dislay in the Arts Building, has won awards throughout the world. The photos will be on display unti I March 4. Author gives autobiographical talk - Kertesz By JOY RUNYON Staff An exhibition of photographs by Andre Kertesz is on display in the atrium and east vestibule of the Arts Building here at Union. The exhibition will last unti:l March 4, 1985. Kertesz, an American, was born in Budapest, Hungary, in 1894. The amazing thing about Kertesz, being of the calibre he is, is that he is a .self-taught . photographer. Teaching oneself entails technical and aesthetic aspects. Aesthetic perspective, naturally, is the prerogrative of the artist himself (and, in some ways, that of the audience); it can be nurtured by a teacher, but certainly not taught by method or rote or whatever. The technical aspects of photography, on the other hand, are quite difficult to teach oneself. That Kertesz taught himself all this and rose to a position which commands respect from the rest of the photography world, is more than a mere accomplishment; .. • 0 Trevor Reminisces By JODI L. ISRAEL Staff On Thursday, February 21st at 3:30 in the ·Humanities Lounge, author William Trevor read from his autobiography. Professor Frazier introduced the celebrated author by saying that Trevor's writing held a consistent view of life with 19th century virtues of writing such as depth and solid selection of detail and characters. Indeed this was true. Although Trevor read two entirely different stories the attention to detail in each one gave each a place in one'smemory. Trevor was born in Ireland and lives in England and the settings of the stories reflected this life, not to men- tion the fact that these were autobiographical stories. The stories were not part of his autobiography for the sole reason that he has not written that yet. They were autobiographical in nature though and the first story in particular is of a type that anyone writing an autobiography should be sure to include in their own fashion. This story, which was untitled, had to do . with recognizing adulthood. More simply, in this story he physically retraced a fond childhood memory as an adult and realized he should have left· it in a child's per- spective. In a lilting Irish- English accent Trevor recalled what happened when he returned to his place of birth and then the summer cottage of his childhood and finding everything had changed. Or had it? Was it not more like the innocence of childhood had been exchanged for the reality of adulthood? As a child he remembered \happiness was everywhere\. As an adult he was stared at as if he were a martian when he asked about black limestone steps he thought had been in the backyard. His vocabulary was impeccable and the 25+ people in the audience could easily visualize the stare the new owner of the house gave to the author but at the same time also see clearly the black steps the author remembered so vividly. As he retraced the steps of his childhood summers he noted two things. \It doesn't matter if . . . what matters is different,\ and \It's all your fault if paradise is lost.\ The audience could clearly understand these truisms from their own ex- periences. Childhood is vastly more free and innocent than adulthood could ever be. Retracing the . steps does not mean finding the same meaning in the same objects. The second autobiographical story was not a bittersweet story of childhood, but instead it was a story about what hap- pened the summer he taught at a private school for boys. He was not the only swnmer tutor there that summer. Another man, Roche Quinn, from the refectory was there as well. This \friend\ provided much of the humor of this story. The first indication of the humor in this story came not from Quinn but from Trevor himself on being shown a dark, damp, windowless room. \I took the place to be a cold cellar . . . It was my bedroom.\ Trevor has perfect~d tb~ qelivery. of these lines. With tbis,story as well as the other, the adjectives used to describe the images were cutting edge sharp. All the pictures were crystal clear. The audience could see Trevor being persuaded by Quinn to bike to a neighboring girl's school to apply to be an all-around tutor \with a bit of the old 1-2 on the side.\ Trevor's argmnent that the matron already had a full time staff was futile. The best description of Quinn, who was always looking for \a bit of the old 1-2\ was that Quinn ap- peared to have \invented himself.\ The exploits of Mr. Quinn were told to us in such a way that we could easily infer what was politely not said. William Trevor is a very effective writer, getting his point across smoothly and coherently without being long~ winded or pompous. His reading was easily the best one I have heard this year. He read from his fiction Thursday night in Hale House Lower lounge. If Trevor was even half as good as he was Thursday afternoon the reading must have been sen- sational. Union College Dance Ensemble Proudly Presents: ''PIECES IN PROGRESS I'' A studio performance consisting of two works by Pat Castelli, and a lecture demonstration of African jazz by Eddy Remy PERFORMANCE DATES Thursday, March 7, 1985 at 5:30 p.m. Friday, March 8, 1985 at 8:00p.m. Performances will be held in the new dance studio located on the first floor of the Arts Building. FREE ADMISSION!! Photos Shown it is a conquest. This conquest has earned him his share of laurels: He has earned awards .galore - in France, England, Venice, Hungary, and the United States (.most notably, the Guggenheim Fellowship). His works appear in such prestigious and pre- eminent collections as the Museum of Modern Art 1 the Smithsonian Institute, the Detroit lnstitute of Art, and the Paris Musee d'Art Moderne. The fifteen .photographs on exhibit in the Arts Building are at once pleasing and discon\ certing to the eye: pleasing because ther compositions are so artful and technically out- standing, disconcerting .because they reflect bits and pieces of a lower-class European lifestyle alien to most of us. Some are the type one might expect to find in Thematic Apperception Tests (a testing technique used by psychologists in which the test- taker makes up a story about a photograph and what is hap- pening, has happened, and will happen to the subjects in the picture): meaningfnl, projecting a certain feeling. Many photographers see the camera as their only tool; Kertesz is different. Through his photographs, it becomes apparent that he regards light, shadowing, and depth of field to be just as much his tools as his camera is. It is a though he is able to manipulate and control these factors even in his out- doors photographs. Bocksay Ter is a good example of this manipulation. In Bocksay Ter, an old man walks along the side of a crumbling stucco building. The lighting consists of sharp corners of darkness which begin and end with jolting abruptness. The white building seems pasted onto the nighttime background; the man, pasted onto the white background of the building. The two most striking photographs which are like slaps in the face of the viewer are Forced March to the Front between Lonie and Mitulen and Sunset. The former is yet another study in contrasts .showing Polish troops as one whole body in a snake-like formation winding its way towards- its mist-filled destination. The path through the field on which they are travelling may as well be a drawn line: The part in front of the line of troops is lush green, but behind the line is mystery and blank space which one knows is supposed to be the continuation of the lush green field. Sunset shows us yet another surprise division. The sun is going down, leaving only a triangular sliver of light which is doubled and increased by its reflection on the water's surf ace. Lolling on the perimeter of this sliver of light is a small rowboat. The rest is a plunge into solid darkness. The remaining photographs are generally of Hungarian and Rumanian life situations: a girl struggling up an incline with laden buckets, elderly people doing various things, men struggling with their reluctant or fallen horses, and a few other subjects-all -dealing with lower-class Europeans in stereotypical dress, surroun- dings, and situations. Most of the photographs are solemn and even saddening. (There is, however, one very fun picture, entitled My Brothers, of two men in swimsuits balanced against each other with joined hands ' and· knees.. This· photograph is more ·fun and funnier than any of the others.) It would be well worth the time to take a look at these photographs, which will' be on exhibit in the Arts Building through March 4th. COLISEUM SCHEDULE Last Thursday evening at the Turf Inn, the Colonie Coliseum held a celebrity roast for its owner and producer of 18 years,. Joseph N. Futia. The evening's roster included such are.a celebrities as Ed Dague of WNYT, Bob Mason of WPYX-106, Liz Bishop of WRGB and Alan Taffel and Patti Clementz of PM Magazine. . The roast was intended not only to \honor\ Mr.Futla, but also to announce some of the acts scheduled for the Colisewn's 1985 season. Thus far, the following are some of the .shows to be presented at the Coliseutn this summer: May 22-Roy Clark June 22-Jerry Vale June 26-29- The Music Man July 15-Gladys Knight and the Pips July 25-,Sha N aNa July 28-Crystal Gale Aug. 4-Jim Nabors Aug. 7-10-Hello Dolly Aug. 27-The Charlie Daniels Band Sept.ll-14-Evita This season marks the Coliseum's intent of showing one to two night· performances versus its past four night engagements. Thus the Colisewn will be increasing its number of different acts ~bile also speaking to a more diversified audience. To all student activity chairmen: All boxes for Concordiensis must he typed! it you wish to run an ad for more than one wook, pleaso cut the ad out of the paper and tape It to a sheet of paper. When changes are made to an ad that was previously ,-un, the ad mu5t 1M ret •s w•U

like ~ viewer Front and is yet as one way through are ~n be a front of green, one be the green us yet on. The only light water's n the of light is a ian and a girl with people • men ~luctant with in of and is, two joined This· and the these on ~ars,. PM also 1985 be two CONCORDIENSIS, Febrl(ary 28, 1985 . Page 17 THE ART·s REO Rocks Glens Falls By TOD DIMMICK Staff Last Wednesday R.E.O. Speedwagon performed at Glen.s Falls Civic Center for a capacity audience. Apparently R.E.O., the rock and toll wonder .of the seventies, is once again on the road to success. While most music listeners know their albums of the late seventies: You Get What You Play For, You Can Turie a Piano-But You Can!t Tuna Fish, Nine Lives, and, of course, H;i Infidelity, REO Speed wagon has a history that goes back much further. The band started in 1970, playing in bars around Champaign, Illinois. The origin::tl members: Kevin Cronin on vocals, Gary Rickrath on lead guitar, Alan Gratzer on drwns, Bruce Hall on bass, and Neal Doughty on keyboards, who are still together today, were known for a long time to their friends as the Marx Brothers {lf rock and roll. Their pranks on and off stage were as appealing as their music. Even though their antics on and off stage at one point got them banned from the Hyatt Hotels,. their spirit was a large part of their appeal. Jn the band's long struggle to success, anything helped. As Cronin said during the concert: ''In these places (bars) nobody could hear a word ... the only thing going for us was this big old amp that Rich here would turn up to 12 and crank the &? !$ out of it.\ REO set goals for themselves, first to be the biggest band in Champaign, ·then in lllinois. Their popularity grew slowly, but demand for their per- formances never slacked off. During this time REO produced several albums. The songs of those albums are unpolished, and sound nothing like their music of today, but the talent and enthusiasm shone through even then. REO chased success with ferocity, and the tales of the dilapidated cars and planes the group has chartered to rush from concert to concert is in- famous. By the mid seventies the band began to achieve success throughout the midwest. They flew to concerts where they often beat attendance records set by even the Beatles. REO Speedwagon's next goal was to conquer the U.S. as the biggest band. They moved to Los Angeles to be where the recording actian was. In their travels we see the source . for one of their best known songs. While hiking in the Rockies the group got caught in a storm, and they were inspired to write ''Hidin' the Storm Out.\ Characteristic ,of REO, the song is ·compelling but has a simple message·: stick to it and you will make it. In 1976, after six ever more refined a:lburns, REO was certainly a national'ly known band. Still, they had to work for their success. Not satisfied with · their producers, Cronin and Richrath in 1977 took over thek own sound production. The result was , a gold and two platinum albums that hurled REO Speedwagon into nationwide attention. What is probably their best known album, Hi Fidelity, was inspired from the various and painful experiences the members had upon returning home from touring. Indeed, the real emotion of the songs such as \Take it on the Run\ and \Keep on Loving You\ is what attracts so many people to them. After the smashing success of the album, the members of the band were catapulted into a new life they had never experienced before. As Cronin says: \On Hi Fidelity, we were just another band, so nobody bothered us while we were making · our album. Then, all of a sudden, everybody was telling us what to do and what kind of music to make.\ Disenchanted, REO slowed their pace for a while. Nevertheless, they still had a driving need to create and perform new music. As seen from their experiences, these guys have a genuine desire to put true feelings into their music. They don't just produce catchy tunes, they put their lives into words. The concert last Wednesday night marks part of REO's return to the forefront of the music scene. Judging from the size and enthusiasm of the receptive audience, it would seem that they are well on their way back! The well-known group Sur- vivor opened, playing for about 40 minutes and performing most of their well known songs, including \Eye of the Tiger.\ After a 15 minute break, amid 20th Annnual NYS Undergraduate Psychology Conference April 19. - 21 See preregistration form available from Professor Jack Lipton or Psych. Department Office. Any student who would be willing to have a student from another school for the conference, contact Ri:mdi Bell, Box 0210, phone 370-6536 as soon as possible. Pianist Findlay Cockrell will celebrate the tercentet~aries of the births of J.S. Bach, Handel and Domenico Scarlatti when he plays his annual solo concert in the recital hall of the University of Albany Performing Arts Center, Saturday, March 9 and Sunday, March 10. Saturday's concert will he held at 7:30p.m. and Sunday's at 2:30p.m. Admission is $3.00. fireworks and flashing lights, REO Speedwagon came out on stage to leap into \Don't Let 'Eln Go.\ Playing many of their h:its, REO displayed their ability to reach into the past and pull out their famous sound. Kevin Cronin, vocalist, had complete confidence and very quickly established a rapport with the crowd. The skill and experience of aU of the band carne through in such REO classics as \Rol With the Canges\ an.d \Heard it :From a Friend\ which was probably the best song of the evening. Cronin's voice was clear and precise, and Doughty on the kE.!yboards and Richrath on guitar quickly infected the audience with the simple melody and irresistible emotion that made it famous. The newest hit, \Can't Fight This Feeling'' received a frenzied display of enthusiasm. As an encore, REO played \Time for Me to Fly.\ REO Speedwagon is made up of skillful musicians, and their songs resemble music much more than many of the cacophonic top forty sound machines. REO finished with a bang, leaving us all with the knowledge that as far as musical skill goes, they still have it. . DANCE AND ROMANCE IN \SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS\. Here are just two of the 18 featured dancers in \SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS\. Based on the 1954 MGM screen classic, this beloved family favorite plays at the Proctor's Theatre. on Fri. and Sat., Mar. 1 & 2 at 8:00p.m. New Concert Film Release ... Heads Stop Making Sense By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Staff All too often, concert films are nothing more than artsy souvenirs of tours gone by, the cinematic equivalent of a T- shirt or tour booklet. A prime example of this is the last major concert film released: the Rolling Stones' Let's Spend The Night Together, which was all flash and very little heart. This is not to say that the Stones or other bands with similar celluloid performances aren't great live; it's just difficult to capture the spirit, the intensity, the magic of a live performance on film. Consequently, many groups try to spice up their concert footage by enlisting big- name directors and inserting group intervitlWS between songs (as The Band did in their superb The Last Waltz), or video-like dream sequences to delineate the tunes themselves (as Led Zepplin did in The Song Remains The Same). Very few are content to let their onstage perfonnances stand alone. None of that applies to the Talking Heads, whose new film Stop Making Sense is being hailed by many as the best concert film ever. In this remarkable movie, filmed during a concert on their 1983 tour, the Heads go to no extra fuss for the cameramen, they simply deliver the same show they did throughout their U.S tour. But the performances are so compelling and the at- mosphere so carefully con- structed, one can't help but be captivated by the film. One of the inherent flaws in any concert movie is the fact that, unlike the concert audience, the movie audience doesn't wait for hours, scramble to get tickets, fight for good seats, or phyche them- selves for days to see the show. Filmgoers can choose a time that fits into their schedule, see all the details up close, and witness the show with a packed theater or no one eise at all. This can be a very serious detractor, because that kind of nervous intensity and an- ticipation are what make a band's appearance on stage such an explosion, such a special event. If a movie viewer isn't in the proper mood, the band's performance, no matter how inspired, is wasted. The Heads have brilliantly avoided this pitfall by starting .slow and building the tempo and onstage anxiety. When head Head David Byrne walks on- stage alone at the beginning, he's just as bored as you are. \Hi. I've got a tape I want to play for you,\ he explains, setting down the tape recorder he brought out with him and turning it on. The background to \Psycho Killer\ comes out and Byrne sings the tune solo, ac- companied only by the recor- ding and his accoustic guitar. Toward the end of the song, stage hands push an· amp onto the stage and when Byrne finishes, bassist Tina Weymouth comes out, plugs in, and the pair do another song together. During this, the crew wheels out the drum set, and drummer Chris Franz (Weymouth's husband) joins in on the third number. By the fourth song, all four Heads are on stage (guitarist Jerry Harrison is the last) and the tempo has quickened. For the fifth tune, the stage backdrop is lowered and three more misicians plus two back-up singers join the band, making the stage complete at last. Then the fun really begins. Director Jonathan Demme has done a terrific job of capturing the rampant energy of the concert, and the Heads them- selves succeed in giving each song its own certain mood. The Talking Heads' stage show is a non-stop party filled with lively dancing, theatrical lighting, inspired performances, and impeccable timing. Of course, the fact that the group has spent the last nine years making the most creative and inventive music of any American band helps, too. But good material and good performances are cause to make a live album, not a live movie. Onstage antics are what counts here, , and that's what makes Stop Making Sense such a visual delight. All nine of the performers on stage are lively, animated, and totally submerged in the music. And David Byrne is at least as dynamic a frontrnan as Mick Jagger. Byrne dons a variety of stage personas here (each of them extremely strange) and it's impossible to take your eyes off of him:, whether he's smacking himself on the head, running laps around the set, jittering about like a psychotic in a desperate need of a Valium, or flailing his body as though beiTig hit from all sides by unseen objects. Of course, he's just letting the music move him, as is everyone onstage, and the beat is so irresistible there are manv times when watching this that it becomes difficult to stay in your seat. When I saw this movie, many of those in the theater applauded after several of the numbers, as if they were at the concert itself. What higher praise for a concert film? Byrne does leave the stage for one number, but t 1e pace never slows, as the Talking Heads suddenly become The Tom Tom Club, led by Weymouth and Franz, for their big dance hit, \Genius of Love.\ Stop Making s.~nse is about as much fun as yo•t' .·e likely to have at a movie this year. More than a film, i~'s a ~rip through the imagination, exploring intense energy, innovative music, and sensational showmanship and, like any great journey, when it's over, you know you've been somewhere. Stop Making Sense is currently playing at the Spectrum Theater in Albany. Ticket prices for students with I.D. are $2.75. ..

0 +- 0 ..c: a. c tJ) Page 18 pONCORDIENSIS, February 28, 1985 SPORTS Athlete of Gill Egan ByPAULKURKER Sports Staff This week's Athlete of the Week honors is shared by two senior Skating Dutchmen who play together on a line known around Union hockey circles as the \Red Machine.\ Center Bill Wernecke and left wing Gill Egan have been playing out- standing hockey this year and have made a inajor impact on the Union hockey program since their arrival four years ago. Egan is the Dutchmen's leading scorer with 22 goals and 17 assists for 39 points. The second year co-captin sur- passed former Dutchman Tod Fobare's all-time goal scoring record and is Union's second all-time point producer. Gill accomplished this feat while spending a considera'ble. amount o't time playing defense - and still more tim.e on the injury list. The native of Nepean, Ontario set a Union record against Williams this season as he scored two goals (short- handed) in a span of seven seconds. Center iceman Wernecke accomplished a personal high against Hamilton last week ·in the Dutchmen's 8-2 victory as he netted four goals. · On the season, Wernecke has 10 goals and 16 assists for 26 points. The 5 ft. 8 inch, 165 pounder from Eagan, Minnesota began the season with a questionable knee injury but it hasn't affected his performance as evidenced by NCAA Division Ill HOCKEY POLL 1 • Bemidii St. 2. RIT 59 56 3. St. Thomas (Minn) 22-4 51 4. Salem St. 20-7 50 5. Babson 19-7 44 6. UNION 16·6· 1 40 1. Gustav~ Adolphus 14-11 .. 1 33 8. Mankato St. 15 · 1 0-4 31 9. PlaHsburgh 19-6 29 1 0. Oswego 20-8 23 B-ball ... Continued from page 20 adding another pitching coach to the team. If his winning attitude and experience can rub off on young starters Roger Clemons, Dennis \Oil Can\ Boyd and AI Nipper, the Red Sox could have the nucleus of the best starting rotation in baseball. Fred Lynn and Lee Lacy are two valuable veterans that could add a lot to a team with a depleted outfield. Too bad the Orioles don't. Their glut of outfielders complicates the futures of Jolu1 Lowenstein, Gary Roenicke, Dan Ford and Al Bumbry, all proven veterans. The O's did nothing but cause themselves headaches here. Lynn and Lacy recovery of Robin Yount, Paul are past their prime and are no better than the others. Baltimore should have picked up a starting pitcher to replace the recently injured Mike Flanagan, though the acquisition of Aase may help. The Detroit Tigers have helped themselves by getting Walt Terrell from the Mets. He should fit in nicely behind starters Jack Morris and Dan Petry in the rotation until Milt Wilcox can return. The loss of Hernandez could have been a lot of trouble, but the Tigers avoided that by paying him plenty (maybe too much). They still need to find a third baseman, though. The two remaining teams, the Milwaukee Brewers and the Cleveland Indians have done little over the winter. The Br.ewers are hoping for the 0 - 0 ~------------------------------------~--------------- the Week his statistics this year. BiH holds a Dutchmen record as he has been awarded the prestigious Ned Duke hart trophy three times as the PLAYOFF FEVER This Weekend On -WRUC 89.7 FM SPORTS FRIDAY ECAC BASKETBALL QUARTERFINALS Union at Binghamton ..c: c. Pregame at 7:45 SATURDAY ECAC Di.v. H West Hockey Quarterfinals c B iII Wernecke varsity hockey player with the highest grade point average. Wernecke is a Managerial Economics major and a brother of the Chi Psi fraternity while Egan is an Economics major and a fraternity brother of Bill's. Come watch the \Red Machine\ and the rest of the Skating Dutchmen as they host the Soaring Eagll:ls of Elmira in Saturday night's playoff opener at Achilles rink. Eln~:ira at Union Pregam·e at 7:00 This Wednesday, F.eb.-27 Hockey & Basketball Playoffs Continue WRUC will cover if Union is involved ECAC Division II West Playoffs ECAC Division II East Playoffs RIT Bye Geneseo ~O~sw~e~g~o------~~~--~ UNION Elmira Potsdam Plattsburgh \'-. __ _, / UConn Salem Holy Cross Norwich >---~ St. Anselm's Babson Bowdoin Merrimack Trackmen Place 5th at RPl Invy. By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Led by four first places and three second places, the Union men's track team placed fifth out of ten teams at the RPI Invitational in Troy this past Saturday. Winning the meet was Ithaca with 109 points followed closely by RPI with 90. Cortland, with 86, was next ahead of Albany, who edged out Union's 72 markers with 78. Saturday's meet at RPI became a meet of inches, fractions of inches and fractions of seconds as the Dutchmen Molitor, Rollie Fingers and Pete Vuckovich. They are also hoping for the recovery of the batting strokes of hitters Cecil Cooper, Ted Simmons and Ben Oglivie whose bats took a year off in 1984. That is an awful lot of hoping. The Indians did re-sign Andre Thornton, but they are still years away from the top. It should be interesting to see how youngsters Julio Franco, Pat Tabler and Joe Carter will perform, however. Here's how it looks this year. Yankee fans remember, there is always next year to buy a pennant. The picks: 1) Blue Jays 2) RedSox 3) Tigers 4) Orioles 5) Yankees 6) Brewers 7) Indians stayed close to rival Albany State until the end. Russ Ebbets' squad was tied with the Danes of Albany until the final event, the 1600 meter relay. Before the meet Ebbets had planned not to field a relay team so the Dutchmen watched as Albany placed third, collecting six points and making the difference in the score. If Union had fielded the team they are · capable of, judging by the final time, they might have won the event defeating Albany and putting the heat on third place Cortland in the final score. The headline individual performance of the day for the Dutchmen came early in the meet when Scott Remillard upset his rival from Albany State to win the 35 lb. weight with a throw of 54 ft. 61/2 inches. Mevcurio's second place marker was three inches behind at 54 ft. 3 inches. Remillard finished his day with a sixth place finish in the shotput. Union's pole vaulter Wayne Lacy chalked up another win Saturday by vaulting 14 ft. 1 inch edging his Albany coun- terpart by three inches. In the procession of events, Tod Allen came up with the Dutchmen's third victory by speeding to a 5.5 place finish in the 45 meter dash. Gathering . Union's final first place marker was speedster Winston Britton in the 400 meter event. Britton cruished to a winning split of 51.0 seconds. A team effort was turned·in at the distance medley relay, as the Dutclunen finished second with a time of 10:36.9. Sophomore Rob Mohlar acquired two seconds . by stealing second in the 500 meter race with a time of 1:09.1 and breaking the two minute barrier for the first time this year in the BOO meter event clocking a time of 1:59.2. Mohlar was able to edge Albany's third place finisher by .8 seconds. Also on Saturday, several members of the women's Team attended the New York State meet at Hamilton. Though none of the individual competitors made it to the finals, the mile relay team achieved a fifth place finish and a new school record. In the trials on Friday the women placed third in their heat with a time of 4:28.80 but . on Satruday they came back smoking as each leg clocked 64 second splits to finish in 4:17.3 for the record. In the 55 meter hurdles Julie Halpern and Andrea Grief clocked times of 9.87 and 8.03 respectively. In the 500 Michele Vuolo and Carmela Creeth ran times of 1:25.73 and 1:26.09 in their respective heats. Jenny Lee ran a 2:30.13 in the 800 and Grief ran a 46.0 trial and 48.0 semi-final in the 300 ·meter race. Amy Walsh failed to make the trip due to a virus. The men's seas.on continues on Saturday at home as they host the Union Men's Invitational. This will be their last meet before the State Meet the following week.

~lay, as second ds .by meter 9.1 and barrier in the a time to place ~ State ~h none mile fifth school their but ~ back 64 4:17.3 Julie Grief 8.03 ran in Jenny and 48.0 race. the they their CONCORDIENSIS, Februa_ry 28, 1985 Page 19 SPORTS \. ... fund-raiser slated Rowers Filled With Optimism Scott Wykoff On Sports By LANCE HUMPHREY Many who know the machine pay heed to it with a wary respect for its seductive challenge. There are others still, whose dealings with such, have left them with a woeful hatred towards its ceaseless taunting. Its presence is· har- mless enGugh. It sits patiently without making a sound, crouched,. lying in wait with unassuming stealth. Its low profile frame is garnished in chrome. The slender body holds tightly to the ball-bearings which make the large wheel fly at the slightest tug of the black, well lnbed chain. Do not fear this beast-like machine for it can be controlied. Here at Union we have two of them chained up in Alumni Gym. Almost daily members of Union's Crew team COLLEGE SPRING put themselves in the saddle of the ''E-rgometer'' to contest its challenge. The personal ,challenge that the \Ergometer\ offers was not enough to satiate the masochistic desires of Union's Rowers. They journeyed to C. R ~- . • #If/ • erg-ch~tl Ionge 'as Cambridge, Mass. to compete with 600 other contestants in the second World Indoor Rowing Championships held on February 17. The \erg-sprints as they are called, are spon- BREAK DA- oRl PLUS $20 TAX & SERVICE ROUND TRIP MOTORCOACH TRANSPORTATION 9 Days • 7 Nights DAYI'ONA BEACH *TRIP DATES * March 2 - Milrrh 9 March 9 . Milr·ch 16 . MArch 16 · Miln:h 23 MA•·ch 23 ·. M,wch 30 Morrh 30 . An\'' G Apr·•l 6 · Arnt 13 TOUR RATE INCLUDES: o Round T rrp T ransportat•on vril arr condrttoned·lavatory Pqurpped motorcoach to [1.1ytona Beach and Ft L <Juder·date 11' • Convement Departure Pornts FORT lAUDERDALE TRANSPORTATION: Roundtrip transportation is available on our coaches. Motorcoaches depart from main bus ter- minals in major cities. Service is express making only food stops. Departure times and dates have been carefully planned to coincide with the check ·in time of the hotels. Coaches depart on Friday and arrive back the following Sunday. Departure dates are: Mar. 1 return Mar. 10, Mar. 8 return Mar. 17, Mar. 15 return Mar. 24, Mar. 22 return Mar. 3.1, Mar. 29 return Apr. 7, Apr. 5 return Apr. 14. Coaches are the most modern up·to-date models with reclining seats and are fully air conditioned and lavatory equipped for your comfort. ctyve lout! BOOK EARLY! ltmited 'Hotel Space in Ft. lauderdale and Daytona Beach 252-02 Northern Boulevard •Little Neck, New York 11363 New York City long !stand Westchester New Jersey· 718·631-.1800 516·Z'2-0155 914-997-0140 201-623-4868 sored byC.R.A.S.H.-B, a Boston area rowing association, and are held in the M.I. T. ·field house, which is appropriately referred to as \the cage.\ Thirty ergometers, each hooked to a computer timer, were used in the competition, which at- tracted rowers from as far away as Seattle, Washington. Among the competitors were retired Olympian-oarsman like Steve Keisling, as well as a good number of 1988 Olympic ·hopefuls--both men and women. Each contestant rowed a five mile ''piece\ which was juded for time, and it was not un- common for the competitors to cGllapse from exhaustion at the canclusion of the piece, which generally takes between eight and ten minutes. Although each of Union's twenty contestants were campeting personally instead of as a team, their turnout, as a team, was equalled only by Harvard's crew team. Th.e fastest time for Union was pulled off by Greg Clark, who rowed five miles in 8 minutes 18 seconds to finish sixteenth aut of 200. John Ciovacco, the coach of Union's team, was the quickest in the light-weight division. Of the competition Ciovacco had this to say, \the overall scores of our team indicate a very good season ahead.\ Presently the team is running a fund raiser, called the Erg- challenge, in which they hope to earn the money necessary to compete with other teams of varsity status. They hope to be able to launch an eight-man • shell on the Hudson River by the first week in March. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS! It is the goal of all athletic teams to earn spots in post- season action and this Weekend both the Dutchmen hockey and basketball teams will be par- ticipating in first round ECAC contests. For head hockey coach Charlie Morrison, Saturday's game with Elmira at Achilles will mark his second trip ta the ECAC's since h.is arrival in Schenectady seven years ago. Bill Scanlon's Dutch- men basketball squad will travel to Binghamton Friday night and mark the fifth time Scanlon-coached teams have earned a spot in the ECAC Tournament. Selection Snafu: Once again the ECAC Div. II hockey play- off selection process has come under criticism. Since each team plays a different ·divisional schedule, the ECAC set up a series of criteria to select and seed teams for post season play. Record, head-to- head play and difficulty of schedule are a few of the criteria taken into con- sideration by the selection committee. Monday, when the selectors came out of a down- town Boston hotel with the ECAC tourney pa1rmgs, Plattsburgh had been seeded second, while Union third. After taking a look at the before-mentioned criteria and comparing the two teams in question, one would have to think the Skating Dutchmen got the short end of the stick. At the regular season's completion, . Union finished just percentage points behind Plattsburgh. A glance at head-to-head com- petitien would show the Car- dinals having just slipped by the Dutchmen at home in overtime while Union wiped up Achilles with the likes of our friends to • • • battle sunny skies Skiers FareWell By PURMIN ZURBRIGGEN Union's women's ski team traveled to State College, Pa. this past weekend to participate in the Division II collegiate ski championships. The two-day event featured the slalom race on Saturday followed by the giant sloalom on Sunday. The team journeyed south on Friday night and was greeted Saturday morning by 70 degree tem- peratures and sunny skies. This was hardly the weather for skiing. The slalom began at 10 a.m. at the Mt. Tussey Ski resort. The course was extremely steep at the top and a covering of salt made the skiing icy. As a result, almost half of the women fell in the first run. However, none of the Union team fell and at the end of the first · run Carol Verden was fourth, Jane Kissel was seventh, and Liz Andora had finished eighth. This put Union in second place after the first run. At the start of the second run, Carol Verden was disqualified for allegedly missing a gate on the first run. After a strong protest by captain Pat Virnich and coach Jim Schaefer failed to produce any results, two of the Union girls, Yerden and Andora fell in the second run. Celia Mann, Jen Scully, and Kissel all finished in the top twenty, leaving Union if fifth place after the first day. Saturday night the coaching staff of Pat Virnich, Jim Schaefer, and John Fox were treated to dinner by an ap- preciative girls' team. Highlights of the evening in- cluded a mud wrestling match betweeH Verden and the entire Alfred's men's ski team. Sunday morning the team was once again treated to summer weather for the giant slalom. The race began at 10 a.m. and was regarded as a very difficult course. The Union girl's team all finished in the top twenty in the first run. Y erden and Andora turned in two ex- ceptional runs and helped the girls to fourth place after the first run. The second run ran much the same way with the girls finishing fourth overall in the giant slalom. After all the results were tallied, the Union · ski team finished in fourth place overall in the championships. Third place went to Colgate, second place to Penn State, and the winner of both the men's and women's races was Syracuse. They will be going to Idaho in the coming weeks for the national championships. Special thanks is extended to Jim Schaefer for an exceptional job in leading the team to the first championships in four years. See you next winter. · the narth with a resounding five goal win most recently. One would think strength of schedule would also lean towards the gang in garnet. The Dutclunen ran up a 14-3-1 record against the best Div. II had to offer. Plattsburgh earned their 19-4 regular season record with a good batch of wins over also rans such as Brockport and Cortland. Watch out Platt- SP\rgh if both the Cardinals a11d the Dutchmen advance pa<;t this weekend's first round, both squads will meet next week and one would have to think the boys from Schenectady would have a score to settle in that one. Scouting Report: Elmira skates into this weekend's first round ECAC game with Union a distinct underdog. Just take a look at the way the numbers line t:!p agains the Soaring Eagles. Charlie Morrison's squad has not lost a divisional game since December 13th. The Skating Dutchmen began their current double figure non-losing streak against this same Elmira team back in December with a convincing 7-2 win. To make things even worse for Brian McCutcheon's squad, Union has not lost under the dome of Achilles, in the division, in over a year. The last divisional team to knock off a homestanding Dutchmen team was Mid- dlebury way back in January of 1984. Saturday's matchup will pit two of the league'stop defensive units. Union's Wayne McDougall and Elmira's Bill Burtch are two of the best goalies in the west while both blue line units have limited their opponents all season in the shots department. Union's high powered offensive might make the difference as the Soaring Eagles have had trouble putting the puck in the net all winter. Hoop Scoops: Bill Scanlon's Dutchmen basketball team is a true testimonial to the cliche used so often in sports: that hard work and determination pay off. The Dutchinen have quite a task ahead of them in Friday's first round game at Binghamton. The Colonials handed it to Union back in December, pulling away with a 20 point win. Binghamton is also not a very nice place to play if you are the visiting team. The SUNY school has a long tradition of packing its horne arena while seemingly always getting the call§ from the men in the stripes. '·The Colonial's strength lies in their backcourt while the Dutchmen depend on their tandem inside of Bartlett and D'Orazio. Union is a much improved team from when they lost to Binghamton earlier in the season and look to prove something in this year's ECAC tourney. Rink Benefactor Dies: H. Laurence Achilles, the man for which Achilles Rink was named, passed away last week at his Vermont home. An ex- Union professor and freshman hockey coach, Achilles provided the major funding for the construction of Union's rink and curling facility that was completed and named after him in 1975. Laurence Achilles will be sorely missed but his memory will live on in the facility that stands as a tribute to his generosity.

Page 20 CONCORDJENSJS, February 28, 1985 SPORTS .... beat RPI and Potsdam Hoopsters·Run Record To 14-10 By MARK VAN BUREN Sports St~ff Last week, the Union basketball squad upped its record to 14-10 with two vic· tories over outmanned teams. .V) V) llJ .... 0:. t: 0 u VJ ::.. ..0 $! 0 .c: On Wednesday, the Dutchmen rolled past RPI, 72-59. Union grabbed an early 4-0 margin, on baskets by Tom Beck and Kevin Bartlett, and held the Engineers scGreless for the first 3lh minutes of the game. RPI ob- tained \its first advantage, 5-4, at 15:04 with Mike Gianaccinni's two free throws. RPI stiU held a one-point lead, 15-14, midway through the first period, until the Dutclunen outscored the Engineers 8-0 over a two minute stretch to go ahead 22-15 with lead just 2 minutes and 17 seconds after the initial jump- ball. Union increased its margin to 19-6, when Ken.D'Orazio hit two free throws at the 14:05 mark. Steve DeBalso cashed in on a lay-up with 5:33 remaining before halftime, giving the Dutchmen their biggest ad- vantage of the period, 16 points--38-22. Clarkson never got closer than 10 points, and found themselves facing a 47-34 halftime deficit. At this point in the game, Union already had two double-figure scorers-Ken D'Orazio 14 pts. and Neil Winawer 12 pts. Union con- tinued its domination at the beginning of the second period, and held the widest margin of DUTCHMEN NOTES: On Monday, it was learned that the Dutchmen received an ECAC playoff bid. Their first round game will be against Binghamton at Binghamton. Union was seeded 5th in the 8- team field, with a 14-10 record. Binghamton stands at 14-10 also, but enjoyed a 20-point blowout win, 83-63, over Union earlier this season . . . After getting off .to dismal 2-4 and 4-6 starts this year, the Dutchmen have come back to win 10 of their last 14 contests, including a current modest 2-game winning streak ... During this span, Union has not only received outstanding play from its starters, but the bench has ·a. 7: 32 remaining in the opening half. This spurt was keyed by Ken D'Orazio who had 6 of the 8 points, with the other two coming as a result of his assist on a fast break. The Union quintet remained in control for the rest of the period, and still retained a seven-point margin at intermission, 34-27. The Dutchmen opened the second half by scoring 7 of the first 8 points, to set the tone for the 01 remainder of the contest. Their ~ lead, 41-28 at 17:44, gave them a '§ bit of breathing room. However, ~ the Engineers would not quit, llJ and battled back in the ~ following two minutes to cut the ~ Union -lead to 41-36, as Mike ..o Gianaccinni canned two free t throws. The Dutchmen again -5_ opened up a double-digit ad- vantage, 56-44 with 8:47 left, as Kurt Fox hit a jumper. RPI scrapped right back and cut the deficit to 59-54 at the 5:21 mark, but Torn Beck responded with two long-range jumpers for Union, giving them a nine-point lead with only 3:47 to play. The Engineers could not get any closer the rest of the way as Union recorded its thirteenth victory of the season. Leading the Dutchmen were Ken D'Orazio, Kevin Bartlett and Tom Beck, with 21, 14 and 10 points respectively. Sophomore forward Mike Miller takes base line jump shot as Ken Levine (11 J and Kevin Bartlett look on. also done a superb job . . . Entering the Middlebury game on Wed., Ken D'Orazio found himself just 26 pts. shy of 4th place on the all-time scoring list ... Ken is also dosing in on 1st place on the career rebounding list . . . Teammate Kevin Bartlett needs just 38 pts. to move into 6th place on the scoring list . . . Currently this season Bartlett is averaging a team-high 18.2 ppg trailed closely by D'Orazio, who is hitting for 18.1 ppg. Junior right wing Curt Cole (UJ waits for a rebound ih a game earlier this season against Wi,ll iams. ... Championship Quest Begins I Playoff Bound ! ByALWHITE Sports Staff For the second time in as many years, the Union college skating Dutchmen will be hosting the opening round of the E.C.A.C. Division II playoffs .. The third seeded Dutchmen will square off Saturday against Elmira, the sixth seed. Union clinched their play-off spot with a win over Hamilton last Wednesday, 8-2. The Union Pucksters ended their regular season this past Tuesday in Middlebury, Vermont, (Hopefully they were not looking past the 7-14-1 Pan- thers). McDougall anchors Defense If Union had to look at one reason for their success this year, that reason would have to be the superb play of goalie Wayne McDougall. Dougie, as he is commonly known, has gone undefeated in his last 13 outings. In his last 3 games, the only goals allowed have come on the power play in addition, Wayne has been named Div. 2 goali~ of the week the past 3 weeks. Against Hamilton, McDougall had to share the spot-light with senior center Bill Wernecke. Wernecke netted four goals, the first multi-goal game of his career. He received plenty of help from linemate Gil Egan, who finished the contest with four points, including a power play goal with one second left in the first period to give Union the lead for good at 2-1. Jamie Knight (17 goals), John Mackenzie, and Steve MacGillivary had the remaining goals for Union, as the Dutchmen totally dominated the hapless Hamilton Continentals. As far as the play-offs go, the Dutchmen defeated Elmira earlier this year, 7-2. However, the Soaring Eagles have defeated such notables as R.I.T., Plattsburgh, and Salem State (the East's first place representative), so the possibility of an upset looms for the Union squad ... But don't count on it. Union is undefeated at home against Div. 2 oppon- ents, and haven't lost to a Di.v. 2 foe since last January. Union has no love lost for SUNY teams such as Elmira, _ Geneseo, Oswego, and Plattsburgh, who, especially at their home rinks, perfonn in quite a bush fashion. Either way, look for Union to beat Elmira, and head up to Plattsburgh for the semi-finals against the \Flying Cardinals\ who, although beaten badly by the Dutchmen just a week ago, earned the second seed by way of a better record, just per- centage points ahead of Union. Saturday, the Dutchmen traveled to Potsdam, New York to challenge the Golden Knights of Clarkson. Clarkson entered the game with a record of 5-17, but proved to be better than their record Lndicated. Union never really \locked up\ the game, but instead seemed content to play just well enough to win against this lesser op- ponent. The Dutchmen started the contest by scoring three seconds into the first half as Kevin Bartlett converted a three-point play. They con- tinued this streak by scoring the next six points, in opening a 9-0 the game (20 points), 62-42, as Ken D'Orazio netted a free throw at the 15:01 mark. Although being all but defeated, the Golden Knights did not surrender, but fought back. Clarkson worked patiently offensively, and closed the Union lead to thirteen, 63-50, just four minutes later. They were not finished here either, as with 4:21 remaining the Dut- chmen advantage was down to eight points, 72-64. Clarkson, though, by now, had run out of tricks and could get no further. Union maintained a two-digit lead the rest of the way, and gained its 14th win. Taking advantage of the obvious height difference, four of the Dut- chmen frontcourt players reached double-figures, paced by Ken D'Orazio. D'Orazio finished with 24 points and 16 rebounds. He was followed by Kevin Bartlett (19 points and 5 rebounds), Neil Winawer {16 points and 4 rebounds) and Mike Miller {10 points and 4 rebounds). . . . The American League East ... ... ... ro a. ::.. .0 0 0 s:: Ct Spring Fever Brings Major League Ball By STEVE PIRAINO This will be the first of four articles previewing the 1985 baseball season for each division of major league baseball. It seemed logical to start with the best. Since the American and National Leagues were broken down into East and West divisions in 1969, this division could be the strongest one ever. According to manager Sparky Anderson of lhe World Champion Detroit Tigers, \When I used to manage the (Cincinnati). Reds it was sim- ple; either we won or the (Los Angeles) Dodgers did. In this league anyone can win.\ Five teams from this division played well enough to win the AL West last year, a reflection on both divisions. But more im- portantly, the AL East teams have also acquired many high caliber players over the winter. The following is a list, team by team, of the new players: Lavelle; Baltimore Orioles-OF Fred Lynn, Lee Lacy, P Don Aase;. NY Yankees-OF Rickey Henderson, C. Ron Hassey, P Ed Whitson; Detroit Tigers- Pitcher Walt Terrell; Boston Red Sox-Pitcher Brtice Kison. Also, many teams opted to sign some of their own players instead of having to trade them away. It was a happy Valen- tine's Day for Red Sox fans. In one day, the Sox shelled out $15 million to all-stars Jim Rice, Wade Boggs, and Bob Stanley. The Tigers also maintained their strong bullpen by re- signing 1984 Cy Young-MVP Willie Hernandez. The most important due to the relief pitcher's collapse. · Base stealing maniac Rickey Henderson will add another dimension to the Yankees' offense. Henderson along with Willie Randolf, Don Mattingly and Dave Winfield will generate many runs. The problem is, as Winfield puts it, \We're gonna score a lot of runs. I just hope we don't give up more.\ The Yankees traded away their future for Henderson. With Shane Rawley gone, even more responsibility is put on Dave Righetti's shoulders. He'll need all the help he cafl get to back up fading stars Ron Guidry and Phil Niekro. · The Red Sox have quelled the rumours that they have a thin wallet by signing Rice, Boggs and Stanley. Good thing they did; the last time it came to signing key player, Boston let Fred Lynn, Rick Burleson and Carlton Fisk slip away. They have now insured that they will at least be competitive. Also, getting Bruce Kison is like Senior Co·Captain Kevin Bartlett (32) goes up tor a lay-up ih game VS. RPI. Toronto Blue Jays--Relief pitchers Bill Caudill, Gary acquisitions belong to the Blue Jays. Since their founding in 1977, the Jays have never had a quality reliever, now they have two. In the last few years, Toronto has steadily improved but could not win this com- petitive division because of their lack of bullpen strength. Caudill and Lavelle will be able to save the games that starters Dave Stieb, Luis Leal and Doyle Alexander have -lost in the past Continued on page 18

4 Buffalo 1 4 Union 2 • 62 hester 56 . Union 49 Union 60 Union 62 · 48 Union 39 44 :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :30p.m. :30p.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OOp.m. :OO.p.m. Cecily, career, son, , Mark (all 5 vs. . Kent; ~s been 0 .... 0 ~ 0. 0 1,/l 1/) c .0 .0 0 ~ (!) > ~ 1,/l >- .0 .2 0 ~ a. • Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~aid PermitNo. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 CXIV, No. 12 Schenectady, New Yod( February 7, 1985 '' c 'iii lL 1/) 1/) ;::) 0! >- .0 0 - 0 J: 0. Vic.e President .for Finance· John Hauser and Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students, discuss alteratiohs in the plans for the student center. Estimated Costs Rise .. , Reagan Proposes Big Budget Cuts By BETH LEVINE Staff Reagan's budget proposals went to Congress on Monday,· February 4. Under the current figures, families earning more than $30,000 a year would no longer be eligible for Guaranteed Student Loans ( GSL) and federal loans would be restricted to $4,000. _ stressed. Chances are the federal budget cuts will not pass as they are right now, but students should be writing letters to their congressmen. In whatever form, the budget cuts will not take effect until1986-87. Renovations Altered According to Ellen Frishberg, Director of Financial Aid, the $30,000 cap of the GSL would disqualify about 50 percent of the Union College student body. There would be a loss of over a million dollars in assistance. The $4,000 cut to the current $8,000 federal loan would not affect private colleges as greatly as it would graduate schools. In order to maintain its level of enrollment and its com- mitment to making a quality education accessible to the quality student, Union would have to divert resources. Union is special in that it does have other sources, namely en- dowments, whereas most private colleges do not. These schools would have to close its doors to those needing financial· aid or, subsequently, go out of business. By PETER MOHR Staff Since the beginning of this term, there have been several changes in the renovation plans for Carnegie Hall. As the designs for the new Student Center and Alumni Gym became more reftned, the estimated cost of the renovations rose above earlier expectations. The administration and the Board of Trustees made the decision in early December to increase the proposed con- struction budget by $1.6 million. The total budget is now $14.3 million, with the major financing to be obtained through a loan from the New York State Dormitory Authority. Despite this increase in budget allowance, the ar- chitects and administration realized that the cost of the original design for the College Center coUld not be met. The first plan included two towers, which have now been eliminated. The towers, which were designed to house stair- wells, would have been located on each side of Carnegie Hall. With the elimination of this feature, the Center will contain new stairs in the same locations as the existing ones at either side of the building. This change is not expected to reduce the amount of space available for student activities. The Center will contain a new upperclass dining hall, a restaurant, a 250-seat theatre for lectures and films, rooms designed for several specific activities; for example WRUC, general purpose meeting rooms, and administrative space. There will also be a new bookstore, a college store, and a new mail room. The bookstore and college store, however, will be. smaller than originally planned. According to Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, \We have not lost any significant · stud.l:mt activity space that was recommended by the original student programming com- mittee.\ On the third floor, hallway space will be sacrificed in order to preserve room for the facilities at that level. The original plan, which was designed by Shepley, Bullfinch, Richardson, and Abbott of Boston, also included two sets of staircases in the center of the building near the existing staircase which leads from the first floor to the Pub. Now, howevet, there will only be one staircase; the second one has been replaced by an elevator. This has eliminated the \grand staircase\ effect, which was considered by some to be an attractive feature of the •• building. . This new elevator has also caused concern about the number of shipments for the stores and Food Service which will have to be brought through the center of the building. This traffic would be an annoyance to those trying to relax and enjoy the Center's facilities. The plans, however, call for a separate elevator with a loading dock for Food Service. This elevator will be located toward the back of the building where . shipments will not interfere with the building's activities. However, the elevator in the center of the building will be used not only by members of the campus community, but also by the stores in receiving their Continued on page 3 Although her main concern is the students, Mrs. Frishberg also noted that there would be Union has wodred; h.iu;d at building endowments. These gifts from corporations and individual alumni provide financial strength. According to Jack Moranville, the Assistant There would be a loss of over a mlllion dollars in assistance. · research, grant, and National Science cutbacks, affecting the whole campus 'community. These cuts would make private schools for the rich and public schools for middle income and poor families. \This is a real time for political action, rather than worry,\ Mrs. Frishberg to the President, 5% percent of the endowment gets worked into the whole budget. He believes that there is an awful lot of uncertainty as to what fonn the budget cuts will take after six months of ·negotiation. \The federal budgets are too loose, too vague,\ stated Maranville. Union will continue to address financial aid. \If you lose one source, look for another,\ Maranville maintained. One other source of financial assistance is the Sheep Program. The State Dorn:litory Authority, a financial bonding agency in New York State, sells bonds for colleges. These revenue bonds are tax exempt and the students would receive the proceeds. The program has been put together in a hurried fashion in the past few years, but it is a possibility. Students should be aware of the proposals and the possible effects these budget cuts might have on their educations. Energy should not be wasted in just worrying about the out- come, but rather directed ~ ( ~. >< I •• >- towards communicating their ~ concerns tp Congress. After all, o as every student knows, -5. education is vital to the future of 40 - • • • ~ ' ' . our nation. Winter never looked so good.; and felt so bad! Window Views 1 of Union *-page thirteen-* I Brighton Beach Memories Reviewed *-page fourteen-* Write Senator Hugh Farley in support TAP Parity and Equity ,

u ci ::... .0 .!? 0 ..c: c. Pagel CONCORDIENS/S, February 7, 1985 WINTER CARNIVAL Unfortunately, the turnout f~r Winter Carnival was not as I arge as expected. Pictured here are a few o.tthose that actually did show up: members of the Concordiensis editoria.l staff. Forum Welcomes ··Freshmen By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff The Union College Student Forwn met this past Monday, February 4th. Discussion focused on a variety of issues, including a presentation which was given about the Indepen- dent Student Coalition. First to be announced was the rescheduling of the Open House of the new Student Forwn Office. Originally scheduled for this past Monday, the date was moved back a week to allow better on-campus notification of the event. 0 The official Open House will now be this coming Monday, February 12, from 8-9 p.m. After the introduction of the two Freshmen Representatives (Richard Allen and Todd Harder), the minutes of the five previous Forum meetings were approved. This was then followed by a discussion of the success of the Student FonUn's booth at Winter CarnivaL The Forum featured an auction, in which various items were sold. A total of $130 was raised. This money will be donated to ·a special fWld to help a local citizen receive a heart tran- splant. o. Senior Trustee Shari Midoneck thought the booth was \quite successflll ... and Doug Landon (a Senior Represen- tative on the Forum) is the best auctioneer.\ Sophomore Representative Julie Mountain presented the latest developments in the \Enrichment Program.\ The focus of the program is to have Union College students travel to local high schools where they would give presentations on research projects that they had done. Mountains, at the suggestion of another Forum member, is going to the Admissions Office for ad- ditional help. New Professor in Political Science: Brian Klunk By FRED EISMAN Staff The faculty at Union has a welcome addition this year; Brian Kltmk, Visiting Instructor of Political Science. Upon graduation from the Pennsylvania State University in 1977, where he received his Bachelor of Arts degree, Klunk matriculated at the University of Virginia, from which he obtained both his Master's Degree and his Ph.D. Klunk came to Union because a number of its characteristics appealed to him. It was Union's fine academic reputation, and the quality of the student body which initially attracted his attention. \Virginia prides itself on being elite,\ Klunk says, \and when I visited Union last year I found the students matched up well if not .better\ compared to Virginia students. The quality of the Political Science department, which KlWlk deems top notch, only impressed him further. Klunk perceives himself as primarily serving his students the best he can. Hence, he lists becoming more accomplished as a teacher as his most im- portant goal. On a more i>er- sonal level, Klunk hopes to become as knowledgeable as possible about United States foreign policy and the influence of moral ideas on international relations which are his major areas of interest. In his spare time, Klunk enjoys listening to music and has, in the past, involved himself with choral and in- strumental music. In addition, he has developed an interest in personal computers and has just started to learn more about them. Though he did · teach as a graduate assistant while at Virginia, Klunk's position at Union is his first teaching job. To his job he brings an honest eagerness and desire to help any students who require his assistance. His efforts are evidenced by his assistance to those students attempting to revitalize the International Relations Club. For Brian Klunk, .we hope that Union provides him with the opportunity to fulfill his goals. A special presentation was then heard from Jeff Serefini, the Executive Director of the Independent Student Coalition ( ISC). Serefini explained the origins, functions and purpose of the ISC. He also went over the ISC' s latest project, the passage of TAP Parity, stressing the importance of its passage. Last year 0 a proposal was made to the New York State Legislature for a four-year program in which TAP Parity (state aid to students) would be adjusted. A compromise bill was passed, however, allowing for only one year's worth of increases. Because these other years of aid are needed, the ISC is preparing to continue the campaign. The ISC's first step was to prepare a manual (this past fall) explaining TAP and other related issues. Next, these manuals will be distributed statewide (at the independent colleges) which will then be followed by a lobbying cam- paign for TAP. Serefini lastly stressed the importance of getting independent schools, such as Union-, involved. The focus of the meeting then turned to committee reports. Seni.or Representative Mary Phillips presented the Student Affairs Council (SAC) report. Jan Grey appeared at the last SAC meeting where they discussed possible alternatives to Late Night Bites (a former late night \munchie\ place). A proposal 0 was arrived at by which part of the Pub and Pizza > ~ VI t: E It: ~ > ... ... It -- > .c ~ .t:: c Contiaued on page 6 Law Appeals to Fewer Students (CPS l-For the second year in a row, fewer students want to go on to law school, even though over 90 percent of law school graduates find jobs within six months after they graduate, two new studies reveal. Applications to the nation's 173 American Bar Association (ABA l accredited law schools have dropped 12 percent over the last two years, according to a soon-to-be-released study by the Law School Admissions Council (LSAC). After a modest increase between 1981 and 1982-from 71,026 to 72,94:6--law school applications have plunged to a low of 64,078 this school year the study shows. The law schools got 10 percent fewer applications than they did in 1983. Changing demographics, rising tuition costs, a perceived glut of lawyers in the job mqrket and a shift in student interest to engineering and other high tech, high paying majors are responsible for the decline, speculates Bruce Zimmer, LSAC's executive director. \There was an explosive growth of lawyers in the seventies,'' adds ABA President William Falsgraf. \But government cutbacks and the economy have slowed that growth somewhat.\ Consequently, \students hear that the bloom is off the rose in law and they switch to other fields.\ Soaring tuition costs-top law schools now cost up to $10,000 a year-coupled with a decrease · in the amount of financial aid available to students also have driven some students away from law, he says. \Costs are higher than ever, and are something we need to control as much as possible,\ Falsgraf warns. \We are particularly concerned that - rising tuition will tend to decrease the number of minorities entering law school.\ But despite the 12 percent drop in applications over the last two years, Fa,lsgraf says most law schools still can't take all the stu<ients Who apply and their enrollments remain level. And the number of law school grads who foWld jobs within six months of graduation held steady at .90.6 percent this year, another new study points out. \We've been doing studies on the placement rate for law graduates for the last 10 years, and it's always been at about 90 percent,\ says Colleen Moore of the National Association for Law ,Placement (NALP). \Even as govermnent and other markets slow down, lawyers are finding new areas to go into, so the placement rate for new lawyers is holding level,\ she says. Lawyers have found more work among the growing numbers of legal clinics and prepaid legal service plans by conglomerates like Sears and Montgomery Ward, the ABA's Falsgraf points out. Of the 90 percent who found jobs, about eight of 0 10 students went to work in the legal profession. Another 10 percent got jobs in areas like public relations, marketing, and real estate, Moore says. White males had the easiest time getting work, with 92.7 percent finding jobs. Eighty- eight percent of the white females,. 86 percent of the minority men and 83 percent of the minority women graduating got jobs. They made an average starting salary of $25,000. New York, Washington, D.C. and Chicago had .the most job openings. Of the 9.4 percent of students who didn't get jobs, Moore says, ''some may not have passed their bar exam yet, some may be holding out for specific jobs, and a number just couldn't find employment.\ *********************************************** l Announcing: ! • • I NEW CLASS OF '88 I I REP~ESENTATIVES i : Todd Harder : • • ~ Richard Allen t i309 Freshmen Voted {57 .3% )~ ~ . ********************************************** Jan Green's Salad supreme

law the .says take and level. held year, out. on iaw 90 of for and rate and by and real siest 92.7 the of job epts ays, ;sed nay Jbs, find CONCORDJENS/S, February 7, 1985 Page3 Boston Careers Observed By DAVID BRUCKMAN Staff During the winter vacation, Union students in New York and Boston had the opportunity to spend the day on the job with a Union alumnus or parent ,of a current student. The Career Observatien Days were organized by Patricia Matteo of the Career Development Center. The program has been very popular and during the break, 60 students visited 58 different hosts. Many students opt to visit more than one company. The New York and Boston Alumni Clubs sponsored career programs in the following fields: actuarial work, ad- vertising, biology, computers, engineering, law, real estate, and medicine, just to name a few. Matteo · emphasized that t:his is an e~cellent chance to ex- plore careers, whether or not you know in what direction you want to head. Students can experience what the job is really like and what it entads. The alumni have a good time hosting the students who, in turn, benefit greatly. Speaking with people who are involved in the field is the best way to ex- pand your knowledge ef such a career. The following are commeRts by students who have partaken in the program: \The ex- \The experience was extremely informative and interesting.'' -a participant perience was extremely in- formative and interesting. My visit cleared up questions. presented different viewpoints and outlooks that I never thought of before,'' and \Excellent day-extremely well .spent. My host w,as very knowledgeable. This definitely helped me strengthen my career goals. I enjoyed it totally.\ Another advantage is the opportunity to establish valuable career contacts. This can be important since many large corporations are involved in the program. In December, the following were seme of the companies or institutions in- volved: Eastman Kodak, Brookhaven Natio.nal Laboratories, . N. W. Ayer Advertising, Harvard Business School, American Stock Exchange, I.B.M., and Sloane Kettering Cancer Center. It is very easy to join the program. The student signs up in the Career · Development Center where he or she attends an orientation session. The Center contacts the alumni with information on who is visiting, and the student then confirms the date with the alumni. The next Career ObserVation Day is in the Capital District on April 24th and 25th. Sign up will be in the first week of April at the Center and anyane with further questions should feel free to drop in. Carnegie Plans Reworked Continued from page 1 shipments. The bookstore should be located on the first floor so that many of the heavier items will at least not pave to be brought up to the next level. According to Mammola, the bookstore generally receives its large shipments during vacations, when most of the students are away. Thus, the location of the elevator will not present a constant inconvenience. One topic of. current discussion· is the space delegated to the bookstore and the college store, which will sell clothing, toiletries, and other goods. Originally, the two stores were to be connected by an internal staircase. However, in order to save money, the ad- ministration is considering eliminating this staircase. courts. There will also be a multipurpose gymnasium which will be large enough for full court basketball. The current second floor track will be eliminated but will not be replaced. Hauser states that the track in Memorial Field House is sufficient for the needs of the College. There will also be two new weight rooms which will contain some new equip- ment. A new eight-lane pool, with a moveable bulkhead, will replace the current Foote pool. This bulkhead will allow the length of the pool to vary from 25 yards to 25 meters. There will also be a separate area for diving. The renovations to both buildings are scheduled to begin in late spring or early sllillriler. The work on Alumni Gym will take about twenty-one months, while the Carnegie renovations will probably last a full two - years. According to Jack Maran- ville, Assistant to the President, the additions and renovations to both bl:lildings have been high on the priority list of President Morris since his arrival at Union. Morris believes that these two projects will be more beneficial to improving student life at Union than any other possible programs. Once the needs of the entire conununity were established, which included future needs, then the general purpQse of each building was developed. The final step was in deciding . on the specifics. Maranville mentions that these projects are now \behind us.\ Although a substantial debt will be incurred, Union is fiscally sound enough so that new projects may be con- sidered. The current topic of conc·ern is the quality of academic life at Union. Improving this quality will cost Union a considerable amount of money, especially if new faculty members are hired. According to Maranville, the financial strength of the College will allow this subject to be realized in the years ahead. According to John Hauser, Vice President for Finance, this plan may be more expensive in the long rwL If the two stores are completely separate, then two sets of personnel will be needed to adequately staff each one. If there is an internal staircase, however, then the employees could move freely from one level to the next. The cost for the Alumni Gym renovations also rose, but there were no alterations to the plans for its new facilities. The new gym, which was designed by the Eggers Group of New York City; will contain three squash courts and five racquetball Concordiensis Needs: Writers, photographers, artists, and poets. Submit your name, box number and phone number to Concordiensis, Box 2577. Since 1877 5erving the Union Conimunit·y for 1 08 years You've been reading it in Concordy 0 \0 :::r 0 - 0 C\ \< 0 OJ < a. G> ... c C\ 11) ... Professor Brian Klunk of the political science department talks about the recent reviva I bf the I RC. IRC Regrou.ps; Big Plans Made By JAN BARAN Staff The once defunct Inter- national Relations Club (IRC) at Unionhasrecently regrouped to becoxne a viable club. The lRC approached the Student Forum for $1,100 in funds to finance its upcoming activities. The club is looking forward to the four-day conference at Mount Holyoke College. IRC plans to send several stl)dents to this conference which will address the issue of nuclear disarmament. The other up- coming event is participation in the Collegiate Model United Nations to be held in New York City the first weekend of spring term. Chance to Interact These two activities comprise just one of the club's interests. Through these events, the IRC hopes to give Union students the chance to interact with other college students on the topic of international relations. Another goal of the club is to bring speakers in international relations to Union. It is hoped that the format of these speeches will be both formal lecture and informal student- faculty discussion groups. The IRC wants to add to the speakers' series that are already on campus. The third goal of the IRC involves supplementing the career development center. According to Political Science Professor Brian Klunk, the club can make available con- sultations with people with expertise in the field of in- ternational relations. Experts in foreign service, government service, and international business are possible sources of information. Klunk is excited about the prospect of Uniori students competing at the New York Moder U.N. As he stated, \The National Collegiate U.N. goes beyond other U.N.'s in its scope. It tries to mimic as accurately as possible the structure of the actual United Nation's sessions.\ The New York Model U.N. mimics the real U.N. in that all committees are modeled after their real counterparts. There is also an effort to ensure proper delegate representation. Therefore, a delegate from a third world country will be expected to adapt that country's policies and behave like the country would in the real United Nations. Time spent in blocs is another positive aspect of the New York Model United Nations. Blocs, according to Professor Klunk, encourage students to ~om­ promise and bargain with students representing other countries. Blocs are an integral part of the U.N. system because they are the entity where most of the decisions about voting take place. · Union will be representing the country. of Ireland at the New York Model United Nations. As part of the participation, Ireland delegates will be placed on the U.N. Commission on Human Rights where the treatment of religious minorities will be discussed. The country will also par- ticipate in the European Security Conference to be held at the New York Model U.N. Any students interested in participating in either the \Global Politics for Nuclear Strategy'' conference to be held at Mount Holyoke College or the New York Model United Nations, contact Eric Cook at 6977 or Professor Klunk in the political science department.

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, February 7, 1985 ~ ~ Ca1npus News Briefs The Union College Campus, Trustees Meeting The following subjects were discussed at the trustees meeting on January 16, 1985: The Buildings and Grounds Conunittee hopes to have the Alumni Gym compl,etely renovated by 1987. Plans in- clude a 25 meter stretch pool with diving facilities, a fully equipped weight room, five raquetball courts, and th.ree squash courts (indoors), a new floor, and refurbished locker areas. Plans have also been made to place locker rooms and a new basketball court in the Field Hause. Finally, the side towers have been removed from the projected College Center. The Student Affairs Com- mittee has decided to raise the student activity fee four dollars a trimester. The committee also hopes to receive a presentation from the Student Forum in an effort to learn more about the student body. The Academic Affairs Committee has moved to em- .ploy nine additional faculty members. Union professors are presently asked to carry a heavier work load than most other college professors. It is hoped that a larger staff will create more time for research and possibly attract more and finer educators in the future. Lastly, congratulations were extended to the graduating members of the Dutchman Footfall team. This henor was presented in recognition of the growth and success of this team in the past four years.page four? Circle-K Serves Sunnyview Union College Circle-K plans to visit the residents of the Sunnyview Rehabilitation Center this term as a service project. The center, located only a few blacks from campus, is a convalescent facility for both young and old alike. Last term, several Citcle-K mem- bers helped to organize a bir- thday party for the patients. The Union students conducted a game of trivia, served refresh- ments, and helped to transport wheelchair patients to the party. The club also donated prizes to award the game winners. The center residents expressed their appreciation at the evening's close, and the Circle-K members found it to be a highly rewarding project. The event is scheduled once again for the latter part of this month. Any interested students should contact Diane Stubbins, 6527, or club President John Rusnica, 377-5609, for more details. Union Goes to Cambridge Every high school senior knows the an:Kiety and con- fusion that accompanies ap- plying to colleges. How big a school do I want? What do I want to major in? Will I be able to do the work? These are a few of the questions we ask our- selves. The Col~ege Experience, a Slllllnler program. sponsored by Union fer high school juniors and seniors helps .students to answer these questions. The College Experience is a six-week program which enabJes sixty and eighty students to live on campus and take two semester-length courses for college credit. Participants can choose one of four \core courses\ which emphasize critical analysis in reading, writing, and discussion; and one elective course such as Biology 16 or Psychology 10. Such a curriculum can help a student ' to further develop his tastes and capabilities at the college level. Also offered is a split program where students spend one week at Union, four weeks in Cambridge, England, and then one more week at Union. The cost of both of these programs is $1,750 and both begin on June 23. Anyone in- terested should contact the office of Graduate and Con- tinuing Studies for more in- formation. Campaign for Union By GREG FAY Staff The very successful Cam- paign for Union, begun in April 1980, will come to a close at the end of June 1985. Originally setting the goal for the Cam- paign at $38 million, the Campaign organizers increased the goal to $50 million, called the \supergoal after having realized that the Campaign had $39.5 million in commitments by June 1983. At present, the Campaign has over $47 million in commitments. According to Robert Rasmussen, Vice President for College Resources, the Cam- paign was begun in order to double the endowment, continue the growth in annual giving, and meet the special needs or support requirements of the college that arise throughout the year. Although the cam- paign is not yet over, he. ex- plained, these goals have been achieved. The endowment, en- compassing all the College's permanent property and f\Ulds, is an indicator of the quality of an institution, according to Professor Charles Tidmarch of the political science department and co-chairman of the Cam- paign's campus phase. The goal of the Campaign, therefore, was to double the College's endowment. Before the Campaign began, Union's endowment totalled $30 million. At present, the endowment totals just under $60 million, about a $30 million growth. According to Tidmarch, this has already translated into great changes in all aspects of Union's development. New professorships and chairs have been established and several endowed scholarships have been initiated. These indicate Union's efforts to bring in high quality teachers and more The goal of the campaign . • . was to double the college's enrollment. students from diverse backgrounds. In addition, renovations throughout the campus can continue. The renovations on the Arts Building and on the Potter Engineering Laboratory were made with funds from the Campaign for Union. The President's Discretionary Fund was initiated also with money from the campaign. This fund will allow the President to spend money to improve whatever aspect of the College that he would like to improve without having to go through the long process of asking permission from various committees. To reach their goal, Cam- paign organizers started in 1980 with the public phase of the Campaign. They , solicited alumni, corporations and foundations. The campus phase of the Campaign, chaired by Tid- march, along with Gardner Ketchum, began early in December and is the last phase. Commented Tidmarch on the campus phase, \The purpose is to get a good rate of par- ticipation . . . to demonstrate that we're optimistic about the future of Union.\ Having solicited funds from all quarters of the campus community, including faculty, staff, and administration, Tidmarch stated, \We've been very pleased at the warm response we've gotten so far and we're optimistic that before · the Campaign ends, a sub- stantial percentage of the · college community will have chosen to participate. Endorsed by the Board of Trustees of the College, the Campaign is led by Trustees Dr. Richard Day of the class of '39, Thomas Hanigan of the class of '45, and Gerard Newmann of the class of '36. The Extension Committee will be at Carnegie on Friday from 9-12:30 with a peti.tion for any women interested in a fourth sorority This will be essential to the Extension Committee, which is about to make a decision on a fourth sorority between the 3 sororities who came to campus, Phi Sigma, Delta Zeta and Gamma Phi Betc.. Demarest . Scholarship Created Starting with the 1985\86 school year, there will be a new source of student financial aid at Union. Thomas E. Demarest, Sr., . has created an annual schelarship in honor of his son~ Harold,. who died in a Schenectady fire in 1978. According to the financial aid office, the scholarship will consist of an annual award of .$500. Mr. Demarest has requested that preference be given to students from Demarest, N.J. because the town shares his family name. Harold Demarest, 21, died with four other people in a fire in his home at 1903 State Street. He was a graduate ·Of Scotia Glenville High School and the Linton High School BOCES vocational program. Thomas Demarest has been a full-time employee at Union for two years and had previously worked part-time here for seven months. He has twenty-seven years of experience in the Carpenters' Union in Schenectady including fifteen years as a supervisor. His daughter Aimee also works in the Union Campus Operations Center. is invited to attend OPEN HOUS·E at the new Student Forum -Office on Monday Feb. 11 at 8:00-·9:00 \Come Meet The Student Forum'' SOl Hattie St. • 393-0594 RESTAURANT AND BAR FEBRUARY SPECIALS Kitchen Open ti II 1 :00 a.m. Bar Open till4:00 a.m. Mondays: Bud Night--9 p.m.-1 a.m. Bottles $1.00 • Pitchers $2.75 Tuesdays: Budget Nite 9 p.m.-1 a.m. $2:00 at door • Free Draft Wednesdays: Chicken Wings8p.m.-1 a.m. 2 for 1 (add $1.00 for take out) Thursdays: Iced Teas 9p.m.-2 a.m. $1.00 Fridays: Happy Hour 4~8 p.m. Draft and Bar Drinks 2 for 1 Saturdays: Kitchen Open at Noon- Sandwiches Burgers, Wings Mol sons $1.00 8 p.m.-2 a.m. Sundays: Kitchen Open at Noon Bloody Marys 32 oz. $1.50 Plan to spend Valentine's Day at SLAPS HOTS featuring Union's. \Net Weight\ Thurs., Feb.J4 It's Not Too Late There are still a few Winter Carnival T-Shirts Available Do not wait. Go to Mrs. Marra's office now! T-shirts are $5 now while supplies last. This opportunity it too good · to pass up So get your t-shirt today!!!

·- catalog to ·81· call tol~ ·~,, ~ . 60l>N. lli!OeOS CONCORDIENSI5: February 7, 1985 Pages· SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE· CUT·s THAT MAKE. IT -- HAPPEN. HAIR DES;IGN Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts STUDENT SPECIAL Feb. 7-21 with Gary, Teri& Marcie $12.00 Haircuts * We carry a full line of Nexus and Sebastian hair care products. 25% off retail with student I D. Navy Gold: Forged in a Tradition of Excellence Because the Officers wearing it are the best in the world at what they do ~ .. they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval . Aviation. Strong. dedi- cated P.rofessionals who can control the world's most sophisti- cated aircraft. There· s no room over the oceans for aviators that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if you're qualified, see the Navy Representa- , tive that will be in the Campus Center on February 8 or call collect (518)' 462-6119 .. · Minority Students Encouraged to Apply Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. \' '\ ... ... • • \' - • -.... :t.. ~,; \:';_ • • .. ... ' •• ~ ••• ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE GRADUATE STUDIES PROGRAM The -Alhanv ,'\1etll(£17 c;,llexc Crmluutc Stlldl£'o !';; IJo;rum h ti!'olj.(ll!'d (, IY </IIU/ifw<f o!Ud!'ll/> lllcJ/.I'~·att'</ lc >il'Urd II'Uri/111>( tmtf /1/.'<'>fl!o(Ufl, t' < IA/!'('1, Ill tire h<NI ,(1<'111£'' The l 1 rc>:;,ru111 Jlrn~·ufc, t.lw ,frul.·llt ,, 11h <i ,,/ull>a< I ,~rnrou/ nt all<hi.l<'lh nf ll!<ldl'nr oCI<'IItdr< olrulv ,, rtlt wl: <Ill< !'tl /lhln11 II< lll 111 til£' .. rudnr.f, urea , <I oJh'r IUir~all< >II lea.!riiX f,' u dn;ree, ,1 [), ., f,\ • ,f J>Jri/, \' 'fl/.111 \' ,\lH.stcr \' Sci<'tiC£' Requirements Applic,mh mu~t ho~·e d l3ache~~~-[)~grl~l:t;:,~~-;~ ~w;J,t~J ,,Ji~·ge or univl'r~ity anJ '>houiJ have tahn cour'ks m gl·nt·ral ,md nrgamc chemi~· try. gem•ral biology anJ phy-,ics. StuJenh applymg tor aJmi\>\>lon m the CraJuate StuJie'> Program are requirecl to take tht- Craduate gc-corJ Examination prepared <~nJ aJmini~tert-d by the EJucatwnal TPstmg 5Prvice. BIJX 592. Princeton. :--..:ew Jer<,ey 08540. , ·Fields Of Study _____ ,-------c--~ Anatomy, Biochemistry. Microbiology and Immunology. Pathology. Pharmawlogy a11d Toxico'logy. Physiology Financial Aid A limited number of full tuition scholarship<> anJ >tipends ba<,eJ on teaching assistantships and research assistantships are available. Otht-r tinancial assistance can be arranged through the. department to which the student applies and through the Medical College OffiCe ot Financ1aJ Aid. Located in Albany. Nev.' York. Tl2e Albany Medical College c..•as founded 111 1839. In 1873. Albmzy Medical College united with Union College. the Albany Law Sclzool. the Albany College of Pharmacy. and the Dudley Obsrm•atory. to fonn Union Unitwsity. Since 197T the Albany Medical College lzas also been affiliated with the Hudson-Mohawk Consortium of Colleges and Uniuersities. For additional information contact: Office of Graduate Studies and Research, Albany Medical College of Union University, 47 New Scotland Avenue, Albany, New York U208, (518) 445-5253 OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FQR MEN AND WOMEN! JAPAN - EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH PACIFIC- SOUTH AMERICA· THE FAR EAST. EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGH~R SALARIES AND WAGES! FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS! More than 300,000 Americans - not inducting members of the armed services - are now living overseas. These people are engaged in nearly everypossible activi- ty ... construction, engineer- ing, sales, transportation, secretarial work, accoun- ting, manufacturing, oil refining, teaching, nursing, government, etc.-etc. And many are earning $2,000 to $5,000 per month ... or more! To allow you . the op- portunity to apply for overseas employment, we have researched and compil- ed a new and exciting direc- tory on overseas employ- ment: Here is just a sample of what our International Employment Directory covers. ( 1). Our International Employment Directory lists dozens of cruise ship com- panies, both on the east and west coast. You will be told what type of positions the cruise ship companies hire, such as deck hands, restaurant help, cooks, bartenders, just to name a few. You will also receive several Employment Ap- plication Forms that you may send directly to the companies you would like to · workfor. (2). Firms and organiza- tions employing all types of personnel in Australia, Japan, Africa, The South Pacific, The Far East, South America ... nearly every part of the free world! (3). Companies and Government agencies employing personnel in near- ly every occupation, from the unskilled laborer to the college trained professional man or woman. ( 4). Firms and organiza- tions engaged in foreign con- struction projects, manufac- turing, mining, oil refining, engineering, sales, services, teaching, etc., etc. (5). How and where to ap- ply for overseas Government jobs. (6). Information about summer jobs. (7). You will receive our Employment Opportunity Digest...jam-packed with in- formation about current job opportunities. Special sec- tions features news of overseas construction pro~ jects, e.xecutive positions and teaching opportunities. 90D~yMoney Back Guarantee Our International Employ- ment Directory is sent to you with this .guarantee. If for any reason you do not obtain overseas employment or you are not satisfied with the job offers ... simply return our Directory within 90 days and we'll refund your money pro- r:nptly ... no questions asked. ORDER FORM International Employment Directory 131 Elm a Dr. Dept. T21 Centralia, W A 98531 Please send me a copy of your IntemaUonal Employment Directory. I understand that 1 may use this information for 90 days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return · your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis I'm enclosing $20.00 cash .... check .... or money order .... for your Dlreeiol'J. NAME __ ~- _ --·--.,.----,-,.--------- pltut print ADDRESS __________ APT#·-------- CITY _ STATE _______ ~~IP International Employment Directory 1984

Page.6 CONCORD/ENS!~: Februarr 7; 1985 --------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~------- The House in the Garden By PAMELA WILK Staff Jackson's Gardens is easily one of the most beautiful sites on the Union College campus. In the fall and spring, students wa~k threugh the Gardens and study in its lush greenery. The Gardens were begun in the 1830's by Captain Isaac Jackson of the Mathematics Department at Union and are said to be one of the most outstanding hor· ticultural displays in the nation. Few of us at Union realize·that the beauty of the Gardens is the result of plants developed in the Union College Greenhouse. The Greenhouse is located· right near Jackson's Gardens and is supported by the Union's general budget. ~t serves. two primary purp.oses. First, it is the source of all plants and flowers on the campus, and second, it serves as a research facility. currently working with plants .of the genus Heliotropium. He explained that HeHotropiumis a genus. with 250 species located in an different parts of the world, and he is studying their anatomical, morphological, and chemical constituents. There is constant activity in the Greenhouse all year round. While research is under way, the gardener in charge, Mr. Dick Luniewski, plants and cultivafes seeds to replenish plants in Jackson;s Gardens .. Because upkeep of the Gardens and the campus is a large task for one person, students usually work in the Greenhouse. Idol Is Not Idle! The Greenhouse is a major contributor to the beauty of the Union College campus. None of the plants grown in the Greenhouse are sold. The cut flowers, such as carnations, are used for formal occasions like commencement, and the bedding plants, annuals, shrubs, and hollies are distributed around the campus: in front of the library, by the President's house, and iFI Jackson's Gardens. The Greenhouse allows the college to grow desired t>lants in all seasons and to regulate quality. and price of greenery as well. The Gre'enhouse and Jackson's Gardens are unique to the Union College campus. The college has been called an arboretum due to the tremendous diversity and number of species of plants grown. We, as students of Union College, often take for granted - the atmosphere of the campus. By LAURA WEISHAUPT- and LANCE HUMPHREY Staff The Idol magazine is alive and active on the Union College campus! In any case, the staff of the Idol magazine has been active. The Fall issue of the magazine was first released at 1;m Idol Christmas party during finals of last term. This is a unique issue in that it is a collection of poetry from past Idols. The oldest poem in the anthology dates back to 1910 when the Idol itself made its debut. The subject of the poem is Union's idol statue and laments the prospect of the death of its traditional painting by \Union's sons.\ The cover of this latest issue consists of a photo of the' statue. The photo was taken in 1879 before the numerous coats of paint were applied. The antholQgy aimed at printing a wide variety of styles such as free verse, sonnets, and some lighter \fun\ poetry. Copies of the Idol are still available at the circulation desk in Shaffer Library and and in Carnegie Hall at the Infor- mation booth. Also, Idols will be sent to anyone who sends his or her name and box No. to, the Idol, Box 2526. A collection of old Idols is kept in the archives of the library. Anyone wishing to see them is welcome, although they cannot be removed from the room. But that's not all. . . Winter's edition of the Idol promises to be unique. The magazine !s taking on a new look by displaying their works in the cases on the main floor of the library. The displays will be ready on February 18. Short stories, poetry, artwork and photographs will be shown in the issue. The display issue will allow for much more flexibility as well as save the Idol printing expenses. Plans are also underway for the Spring issue. For this issue the Idol will be depending to some extent on outside ad- vertising. The Idol is largely sponsored by Student Activities, and some outside gifts. The · format for this issue has yet to be determined. Lance Hum- phrey, the editor, is hoping to see an increase in short story submissions for the spring issue because he feels that stories are generally more appealing to a larger number of students. . Other Idol projects include poetry workshops which give students an opportunity to share and discuss their own works. Idol meetings are held every Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Record Room of the library. New members are always welcome. TRIVIA By DOUG LANDON WRUC Promotions Director Beginning February 17, WRUC Trivia will air from 8 to 11 p.m. on three consecutive Sundays. With just over one week until the first segment, it's not too early to start organizing your teams. The Trivia committee has gathered an amazing number of individual prizes, not to mention some of the best prizes in years. We've made some slight changes in team categories this year. Fox and Davidson, one of which has always won the dormitory contest, will now vie for a $150 beverage certificate prize in a category of their own. The second grouping has been designed to include all other dorms choosing to play as single units, as well as fraternities and sororities. $100 and $50 beverage prizes will be awarded to the first and second place teams, respectively. Independent teams, as in the past, will compete for a $100 first prize and a $50 second prize (both to be spent for beverages). . The restructuring stems from Hug - Don't Slug Hy JESSE WYNT JES Staff a desire to make the donn category more equitable for the smaller residence halls. .In other business, the executive board has decided to resume publication of a program and news schedule, available for posting and mass mailing to the entire student body. In an effort increase listenership and awareness of the station, the board decided to make its schedule accessible to all. The pamphlet, expected to incur very little printing costs, shoUld be ready by this weekend. Those of you who lament the departure of Mike Klein, Matt Nankin, Andy Rosen, Todd Lewis and the rest of the 6: 15 news team, rejoice! The 6:15 is back, at 11:15 p.m. on Sundays, of course; and with an all new cast. Tune in this week to find out who they are and how they compare with those classic news broadcasts we all remember. The cast comes right in the middle of Paul Edward's Metal ShOp, one of WRUC's finest shows. II In its second function as a research facility, the greenhouse allows students to work with Professors Frolich,. Birecka, and Tobiessen, who all use the Greenhouse to do their research. Professor l<'rohlich is Union's green house So, next time you are walking to classes, take a moment to view the surroundings and . ap- preciate campus beauty. Forum Welcomes • 0 • Continued from page 2 Pub would be left open after hours, with tables and chairs being provided in the hall between . the two. The hours (and other details) are to be set at the next SAC meeting. Roger Harris, President of the Inter Fraternity Council (IFC) reported on the IFC's latest activities. The IFC's stewarts workshop was an apparent success, as several houses came up with plans to save money in their own kit- chens. The last report to be presented came from the Committee of ·Committees (CoC). Susan Brand, CoC Chairperson reported that the CoC had come up with two candidates to propose for the new Computer Subcouncil of the AAC. Also, the club status reports will be due a week from Friday (the end of thesis week). After entering closed session to make the sub-committee selections, a motion was made and passed to adjourn. DO'-LAR DAYS All Fall & Winter: Price Sportshirts Select group of Bass Shoes Outerwear Dress Slacks Sweaters From February first to third, Union College held its 198~ Wintel\ Carnival. There were many booths, including one run by the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. The goal of the booth was to raise mone'y for the YWCA's Battered Women's Shelter by participating in their annual Hug-A-Thon. The idea of the Hug-A-Thon is to get sponsors who will pledge a certain amount of money for every hug that a bugger gets. The motto of the Hug-A-Thon, \Hug~Don't Slug\ is the point ·that the shelter tries to convey. \It is a way of reaching out into the community, talking to people about the problems that face battered women and their children, and of showing that there are positive alternatives to family vioJence.'' says chairperson Mary Kolchinsky. The Hug-A-Thon continues until Valentine's Day. Kappa Sigma started the drive by running a booth to receive a hug from those who would sponsor the organization. The sale .of balloons was another method used to promote public awareness. On Valentine's Day, February 14, Kappa Sigma will again sell balloons and ask for sponsors at a table on the first floor of Carnegie. It is hoped that a goal of $250 can be reached. The Hug-A-Thon is by no means limited to the ac- tivities of Kappa Sigma though. Anyone interested should contact Mary Kolehinsky at 37 4- 3394. SQUIRE SHOP 420 State St. Canal Square Open Thurs. & Fri. ti119 p.m. \

nts.of . He ~is a cated the their and ty in way, Mr. and ~nish .. dens task and dan the and nion ap- 1; ~s c . 0 CONCORDIENSJS: February 7, 1985 Page7 Attention aux Ouvriers de Ia Cuisine FEATURES Restaurant Industry: Nuances of the Trade \ ! \Under \Stiff \marry \amateurs'' . . . may all seem easy enough words to define . . . but according to Scott Anderson and James Byrne, in their new book MEGA TIPS: How to Get and Keep Any Rest~urant Job, to be published by Dodd, Mead on December 3, 1984, in \the restaurant world they take on a whole new meaning: Under or In-the-Weeds- To be very, very busy and perhaps nervous as well. Also knoWn as snorkeling and eating algae. .Stiff~ To not be tipped or to be tipped a fraction of what you think you deserve. Marry__:To combine; as in \Marry the ketch us.\ This means to consolidate them so that they all look full (new). Amateurs~People who dine out infrequently; hallmarked by an ev1dent lack of savvy. And here;s one more: Restaurant People-A group of people bound by a fraternal bond o.f thi~ industry. These people tip well because they know \what you're going through.\ · \ MEGA TIPS is f0r anyone who .is, or who aspires to be, a \restaur.ant person.\ This unique, witty, and htformation- packed guide provides in- valuable advice· for getting- and keeping-any restaurant job. . · \Why would anyone wHiingly subject themselves to the tensions of a 3ob which can never be truly mastered and Where mistakes can be v:iewed, commented upon and rejected by a roomful of strangers? . . . At least the first five reasons are; of course, the cash,\ write the authors, but cash·in-hand is not. the only benefit to the restaurant business, according to Anderson and Byrne- schedule flexibility and an instant social life rank high in the assets column, as well. For a student who must attend classes, an actor wlio is \bet- ween jobs,\ or a writer working on the \Great American Novel,\ there is no better way to make ends meet. MEGA TIPS is geared Now, to shooters. Th~se drinks are made for \pounding that is, downed in one gulp. For this reason, all the shooters listed below are to be shaken with ice and strained \up\ into shot glasses. Shooters are usually ordered in connection with celebra- tions or given by liartenders as complimentary drinks. They • are cheap to make (one· shaker-glassful can make eight or nine shooters) and, if ordered, can really skyrocket a check. These recipes will make three or four shooters; decrease .the liquor slightly when making more. Most of the dri.nks are self-explanatory as they taste remarkably Iik\e their names. Girl Scout Cookie Hawaiian Purich Banana Boomer Root Beer Tootsie Roll Blue Whale Tidy Bowl Jelly Bean Smarty Sweet Tart Bubble Gum Shot of vodka, '~2 oz. green cr~me de menthe, 1 h oz. light creme de cacao, 4 ozs. cream or milk. Shot of vodka or rum, assorted fruit juices, I oz. Grenadine for punch .flavor. 1 oz. creme de banana, 1 /. oz. vodka, sour mix and pineapple juice. I oz. vodka, splash of Galliano, cola. 1 oz. Kahlua, 1 oz. creme de cacao and orange juice. I oz. Blue Curar;ao, 1 oz. vodka and pineapple or orange juice. If not the same, very similar to Blue Whale .. 1 oz. Southern Comfort, anisette, Grenadine. Shot of Campari with 7-Up. 1 oz. Amareuo and sour mix. I oz. rum and creme de banana, cream and dash of Grenadine. Generally, pour two to three times the mixer to the liquor co~ltent but put in less or more to personal taste: Incidentally, th1s can only be done by tasting your product_ Text © by Scott Anderson and James Byrne mustrations © 1984 by Grace Marie Sheehan and Bo Zaunders From MEGA TIPS by Scott Anderson and James Byrne The Northeastern New York _Red Cross Blood Program The 1 ;ooo,oooth blood donor in our region will pass through our doors this week. Will you be the l,OOO,OOOth donor? Come donate at carnegie, Feb. 13, 14, or 15. Balloons for all donors and a recognition award for our l,OOO,OOOth donor. towards those using restaurant work as a means to an end. It is a practical \how-to\ for people who have never held a restaurant job, as well as a useful guide for those with experience who decide that they would rather be serving lobster bisque than chili burgers. It begins by explaining the marketplace ( F,inding or Avoiding the Krishna Con- sciousness Cafe) and ends (Fade to Black, Music Swells) with knowing when to get out of the business, which is not, according to the authors, as easy as it sounds. It includes w0rkable, on-the-job a!fvice for everyone from dishwashers to managers and including waiters, bussers, hosts and bartenders, along with a glossary of terms, a bar. buide, a food guide, a wine guide and a \Tedious Guide\ (to taxes, unions, lawsuits and apsirin). Anderson and Byrne also discuss tactics for getting hired (Some of My Best Friends are Guerdons), issues pertaining to women (The Cute Waitress Syndrome), and how to escape the .firing line (The Incom- petent's Guide). Illustrated with line drawings, MEGA TIPS is a lively and com- prehensive, one-of-a-kind guide that will enlighten everyone from the most bumbling of bussers to the suavest of maitre d 1 s. About the Authors SCOTT ANDERSON and JAMES BYRNE have spent twelve years in the restaurant business. Between the two of them, they have worked in ever\y kind of restaurant imaginable, from a ski resort in Virginia to a casino in Nevada and including places in St. Croix, Nantucket, Washington, D.C;, Manhattan and upstate New Y:ork. l. 2. J. \- 5. 7. 1. smftrr 2. mar11m g/asslstra.ght up 3. bur mug 4. ··on tht rocks\ glass 5. wint glass 6. tall!up!Collms glass 7. lnsh cojfa glass 6. 7. The Recipes Long Island Iced Tea Alabama Slammer Kamikaze Godfather Harvey Wallbanger Sea breeze Madras Bull Shot Planter's Punch Bacardi Cocktail I oz. rum, vodka, gin and te- quila. A splash of triple sec and collins mix followed by a splash of cola. Shake and pour over ice with lemon wedge garnish. Shot of Southern Comfort, grenadine for color, and or- ange juice. Shake and pour over ice. Shot of vodka, dash of lime juice. Amaretto and vodka; shaken. Shot of vodka and orange juice, float of Galliano. Shot of vodka, cranberry and grapefruit juice. Lime wedge garnish. S.hot of rum, orange and cran- berry juice. Shot of vodka and beef bouil- lon with a dash of Worcester- shire sauce, salt and pepper. Shot of rum and vedka with assorted fruit juices (hold the tomato!~ and dash of Grena- - dine Shake and pam Finally float 1 oz. of dark rum on top. Shot of Bacardi rum, l'h ozs. of sour mix· and dash of Gren- adine. Garnish with orange and cherry. Words of Wisdo~m; •. On Clearing The Table: This is the one time, barring being asked a question, when you (the husser) can open your mouth. Like a good politician make a request appear to be an offer of help. \May I get this out of your way?'' usually works better than \Finished having your head in the trough?\ On Approaching A Table: Don't sound like a robot in the delivery of your little speech. \My name is Biffy and welcome to Harvest Home, your home away from home!'' ... Be relaxed and youself in your introduction. Remember, you're not auditioning for a floor-wax commercial. On Listening: Precision is necessary when dealing with customers and listening, really listening, is vital. When taking an order, devote the same level of attention you would to Tara's pregnancy on \Ali My Children.\ On Presenting The Check: You're a waiter, not an athlete * and shouldn't get involved in seight-of-hand tricks or laterals. If more than one person asks for or reaches for the check, Ignore all of them, set it on the table and let them slug it out. On Celebrities: If you do find yourself serving Elizabeth Taylor, carry yourself as you normally would. It wouldn't be gauche to shake her hand or say yo11 admire her but asking, \How many husbands is it now, Liz? Are we talking double- digits?\ probably would be. On Being Discreet: Discretion can save you and others from embarassment. If Mr. Snodgrass comes in three times a week with a different woman, don't make reference to it by asking, \Hey this is a new bimbo tonight, isn't it?' Besides .being none of your business, you may have humiliated Mr. Snodgrass and lost a good customer. Just be warm and friendly with a regular customer; what's left unsaid is often more important than what's spoken. On Children: We've all seen parents who go on with a conversation oblivious to Susie running amok in the dining room, screaming because there's broccoli on her plate or pounding her silver- ware on the table. Any problem with children should be handled by the parents and if a situation is annoying surrounding customers, you shouldn't hesitate to mention it to them. If the problem persists, address the child yourself; often a child used to running over her parents will quickly respond to an outsider. An intermediate step which is often effective is standing behind the parents and glaring at the offender. It usually immobilizes them with fear but sometimes they cry. And Finally: If a customer extends his hand, always shake it-it could contain money. f\\''''':,:;,:,:,:,;:,:•:•:,:·:·: ·:·:·:•:·:,:;,:,:, ,.,.,,,,,, '\' :,: ,:;,:,,.,,.,,.,,,:,:,:<::::o:::«:=<::<::,:::;,;,:,::::: ::::::::::::::::,:,:::::::::: :,:,:,:,:,:,:·:·:· \' :::,:::: \'::: ::::, :::::; ::::::1 .·.· Everyone interested in being .... :::: :::: ~~~~ a part of l~~! Orientation CommiHee .· Applications are now available' in the Office of Student Affairs. They will be due Feb. 11; interviews begill on Feb.18. Pick up your .·.· application today. . ... i.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::•:·:;;;;;:;:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::·:·:·:·:::·:::·:·:·:•:·:·:•:•:•:•:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::~:

Page8 CONCORDII!NS/S, Februar.•· 7, 1985 <llllltfllrbirnsts FaundM al { iuon Collq:e l!i .~.~ ------------ ~------ Sporadic Turnout For those of you who did not make it to winter carnival this year, you are not alone. For those of you who did attend, you were pleasantly surprised. The carnival was primarily a three day event organized by the social committee. On Friday, thanks to a timely snowfall, the cross country ski race did take place. This event was well attended by participant and observor alike. That evening there was a semi-formal dance held in alumni gym. The live band performing was very good although dancing was at a bare minimum. There was an abundance of food and the beer was flowing, but still the gym was far from packed. The Union student has also forgotten what \Semi-formal\ means ·as much of the crowd was dresed in its everyday attire. However, the turnout was larger than one might expect of Union' students. The dance had the potential of being quite good, and was for many students, but lack of campus interest in the event proved detiimental. On Saturday, a carnival was held in th~ gym; the aroma of Fridav ni~ht's beer ke~ts filled the hnilclin!l. About a dozen booths, hardly a record turnout, were manned by various student activities, dormitories and fraternities. Students did show up for the car- nival, but not in what one might call droves. There was barely a faculty member or adnl!n.!~tr~~or at the event either. The people who had the most fun that day were the ones running the booths. It is un- fortunate that many students did not visit the carnival or even bother to set up a booth. Again, a lack of in- terest on the campus' part. . It is rather distressing to hear students complain of the Jack of activities available on campus for amusement. However, when events are scheduled students rarely help out or even bother to attend activities. It is all too easy to complain and not do anything about that which bothers you. So next time you find something not to your liking about Union activites, do something about it. Complaints in . themselves are useless. Transfer of Funds The student forum is examining the possibility of administrative fWlding of certain clubs and activities that are currently funded out of the student activities budget. This budget, which as all club leaders know, is severely tight this year and promises to be so next year. · The student forum has for many years given fun- ding to such clubs as the Glee club, bio club, economics club, physics club, and the various language clubs, to name a few examples. Lately, the forum has begun questioning whether the stuent body really should be supplying the money for the operations of these, organizations, or if instead, the funds should come from the departments affiliated with them. It is true, of course, that the student body benefits from these activities, a·s does the entire campus community. However, the students also benefit from their classes, terms abroads; and departmental lecture series, without providing the additional funds necessary. The for urn currently funds approximately 50 clubs, all of which need more money than they currently receive. The nwnber of new -clubs increases every year~ and the costs each club incurs increase yearly as well. It does make sense that the biology depart- ment should fund the biology club, the chemistry department fund the chemistry club, the arts department fund the arts club, etc. etc. The only question seems to be why they were funded by the. forwn in the first place. The student forum has found itself stuck with a bad precedent set long ago. It .is about time to change this tradition. · All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. LETTERS· Limited Word Processing. To the Editor: The article (appearing in last week's issue Gf Concordiensls) on the limited amount of word processing available to students was brilliantly done. Youdid an excellent job of reporting. The article was focused, and went a . long way toward explaining a number of the complex issues involved in this fight over word processors. I write today to add some of my own thoughts on the subject-in particular, because I find Vice President's D'Andrea's views so ob- jectionable. The facts are clear to everyone involved. 1.) There are simply just not enough word processors for all of those in the campus community who would like to use them, and 2.) Word processing makes writing and printing so much easier and convenient. Naturally then, demand for computer time is going to far outstrip the supply the College has. What bothers me is not that there is a \pinch\ for a limited · resource, that is clearly un- derstanaable. Rather, it is that a high-ranking, educated, member of the administratian would actually believe the students; claim to word processors represent \a low priority.\ If it can l:le generaUy agreed that word processor!! help people do work, he must feel that a student's academic work compares p~:~orly with other competing claims for computer time .. It is this point I would like to center on. Vice President D'Andrea's remarks suggesting that a student's access to the Union College computer network reduces the \incentive ... to buy a personal computer,\ are in my view both shortsighted and irrelevant. I. imagine it could also be proven that by giving members of the faculty and staff computer terminals for their offices, their \incentive\ to go out and buy word processors for themselves is also reduced. But clearly, this too misses the point.. .. What is important is that the Administration, the faculty, and the student body all have legitimate claims to college word processing resources. If there . is not enough of this resource to go around, fairness would dictate .tHat all three groups should bear the burden of its scarcity, and the benefits ·of its use, equally. It does not seem right that a member of the college C\dministration should advance the point that, at Union College, the students are not as important in the scheme of things as those who are paid to educate us. r believe that this view is narrow, and insensitive to the wholly legitimate uses students have for word processors. As an · ending note, I will appeal to the Sub Council on Academic Computing to use rationale and objectivity in making their recom- mendations. Access to the college's. word processing network is a valuable com- modity; and one, that under the best of circumstances should be distributed fairly. If· the Vice President's view becomes actual college policy, I am afraid that the benefits of word processing will be enjoyed· by too few, and the scarcity borne by too many .... With thanks again to the editors of Concordiensis, I am, Yours, Eric Lipman '86 Thanks to Carnival Workers To the Editor: We would like to take this opportunity to thank all of those who' helped to make Winter Carnival 1985 a success. We could never have ac- complished this task without our committee. Thank you Carrie, Lori, Ira, Darren, Betsy, Nancy, Fran, Nancy, Julie, and Lydia. Anyone else that we recruited at the last minute, we also sincerely ap- preciate your help. A few in- dividual students deserve special recognition--Julie Mpuntain, for Friday night's dance, Nancy Gould and Fran Greene for the c&rnival on Saturday, and Lydia Roccisano for everything! ! We would also like to thank Dean Mammola and Dean Massa for their support and enthusiasm. And there is no individual whom we could not without...;Mrs. would we be THANX!! have done Marra-where without you- Well, we hope that all of you enjoyed the weekend and that from this year onward, Winter Carnival will become a Union Tradition. Sandy Nagler and Ann Gould Co-chairpersons Social Corrunittee Forum Auction a Success To the Editor: The Student Forum hosted a benefit auction last Saturday during the winter carnival that met with greater success than anyone had anticipated. Shari Modoneck and I were asked to· organize this project, and did so literally on the spur of the moment. The auction sounqed like a good way for the forum to get involved in the carnival, especially after it took on a purpose. Joyce Westervelt, an area woman in urgent need of a $150,000 heart transplant, will receive the entire sum raised by our auction to aid in her operation. Though it makes only a small dent in her costs, we are more than pleased to help. The reason for this letter is to express my sincere ap- preciation to all those who assisted in our effort. I am overwhelmed and delighted by the outpouring of generosity from everyone involved. The Campus Store provided us with a wide variety of items from its shelves, completely free of charge. Food Serices, &nd specifically Director Janet Gray, donated gift certificates, T-shirts and special ·glasses. Jan \Green\ even volunteered to .autograph recent cartoons in Concordiensis depicting her .. Believe it or not, they sold. We also auctioned old WRUC · records, social conunittee and WRUC mug~ John Anderson bumper stickers, old Garnet yearbooks compliments of Mrs. Marra, movie posters ·con- tributed by the film committee, a bad photograph of Andrew George, and much more. Our best sale of the day was a candlelight dinner for two at the home of, and served by, Dean and Mrs. Mammola. Judie and Sarah, I hear he's a great cook! Shari Modoneck, Andy George and I ran the auction, and want to thank all who helped. A special thank you must go to the customers, the crowd that supported us and bid on our items has assisted · a woman who truly needs our help.- Personally, I had loads of fun playing auctioneer. The whole process gave me a great feeling about the people on this cam- pus. Thanks again. Doug Landon

benefits not of the should Union not as of paid to this uses word I will on to use in the essing com- the be f · the ~comes I am by borne o the lam, '86 done you- you that a our ling ~am- · ('ONCORDIENS/5~ February 7, 1985 Page9 The,State of Union By STEPHEN N. LIPSKY This letter is written to congratulate and commend the efforts of the Social Gommittee, the Administration and all others involved in the planning of the Winter Carnival this past weekend. Myse1f, as well as .a number of people l have spoken with, feel that this is a big step in the right direction here at Union. All that attended were treated to a great time. Note the phrase, \All that attended ... ,\ the showing at the dance Friday night was fair but as the weekend proceded into the Carnival on Saturday, for example, the number of people that attended was pitifully small. · Now I ask, Why have I heard so often on this campus, \this place is so dead ... nobody cares about w:hat goes on ... the ad- ministration doesn't feel for the needs of the students ... etc, etc. . . \ To tty to answer this question I must quote but add fitting changes to a famous phrase, \Ask not what Union can do for you but what You can do. for Union!\ It is obvious what Union can do for you; it can get you into graduate school, it can get you a million dollar job, but most of all it can supply a wonderful environment to grow and live in if you only go out and make it work for you. Take, for example, the typewriter I am using to write this letter and compare it to the multitude of things to do no this campus; just as I could write a novel or just sit here and pound on the keys, if you just \sit there\ nothing getscdohe. The common thing I hear the most is, \I have to study,\ it can't be said enough but there is more to Union than just studies, there is so much here if you would just step out· and look at it. The people who really do care try very hard to make it work for everyone else but if everyone else doesn't respond to their' efforts we are back to square one. I'm not trying to say everyone.should run out and join numerous committees or build wonderous monuments, what I am saying is if we all could pull together instead of always worrying about what everyone else is doing in order to stay ahead, ask wh,at they are doing and join io because a body of peO'J>le looks and feels so much better than a dispersed mass of 1,980 individuals. We are here and we are Union. If, for example, we had made a strong showing this past weekend at the Winter Carnival the \apathetic\ administration might possibly consider more all campus events such as this in the future. Things like this are for all of us, why don't we play together, live together, work together toward a stronger Union ·of People? Many of us hear of the radical campus this was in previous years, it wasn't so much a radical campus but rather a unified campus. Take for example the following newspaper clipping: \The students were restless in Schenectady early today. Some say it was spring fever, others say it was an attempt to prove that anything Harvard or Yale can do, UNION can do better. · . A crowd of Union College undergraduates, estimated at from 400 to 500, assembled at around 12: 30 a.m. and con- ducted some sort of demon- stration. First, they marched to . the Dean of Students' home. Nothing happened there. Then they departed from their ivied campus and headed downtown, marching in loose formation to a White Tower restaurant in State Street, the city's main thoroughfare, where they staged a \lay- down\. They overturned some barricades being used in con- struction work. The law arrived. As one student expressed it: \We say police, paddy wagons, firemen and fire trucks .. '' Sensing that their behavior wasn't sanctioned by the authorities, the students returned to the campus, still in high spirits despite firemen's threats to douse them with high- powered hoses. Before it was over, at around 3 a.m., nine students were arrested and charged with creating a disturbance. Thestudents were released in custody of college officials to await arraignment later today. What was it all a bout? Apparently nothing in par- ticular ... Police theorized the incident was inspired by news stories of a mass battle earlier this week at an English resort . between two teenage fractions. Not so, said a student. He said he wasn't really sure what caused it, but said it may have been prompted by panty raids recently at Harvard. Or, it could have just been spring fever coupled with the fact this is the last week of classes. -Knickerbocker News, May 20, 1964.\ Please don't get me wrong, I'm not at all saying we should become a belligerant campus. I am merely trying to back up my points because if we could get almost 500 people to do something like the one just described to you, why then can't we get that num.ber of people out to an all campus dance and carnival. Take all I have said with a grain of salt and then re-think it and look down the halls, across campus, peruse old pictures and yearbooks, and most of all just slow down and relax and see what you can fit into to make a mark or at least make this place a bit nicer to live in. You may say, \Wheredoigoto find all this?\ A few suggestions are, any Student Forum member,· Committee member, club member, and the offices of Student Affairs and-or Student Activities as well as the back of any freshman record. Thank you very much for your ear. \We are a UNION of People, aren't we?\ . Writers Needed! The Great Escape By TOM HAVEN Noticing the recent freshman cartoon, I was struck with a need to write this note. A Bong blowing up the head of the student who tries pot (or whatever) for the first time is a pretty vivid image. The com- panions of that mutated student have all kinds of blooQ., skull, and brain debris strewn on their faces and clothing. One of the students likes what he sees and wants to undergo the ex- perience himself. This comic strip has definitely .entered into the realm of creativity and has called my attention to a theme that has long needed ad- dressing: the use of drugs at Union College. I particularly enjoy checking my motives to various ac- tivities, even though there is a risk of becoming too legalistic, analytical, and thereby losing the necessary spur . of the moment, impromptu spirit. We. need to find the balance bet~ ween too much motive checking and too little. As I attempt to reach tbi.s balance, I see myself drinking the ole' cup of coffee. It tastes particularly good this morning, sure it does, yet I'm also counting on that kick of caffeine to go into effect. It had better, otherwise I.'m not getting my money's worth. Beers taste great too, except right after coffee, and they become very relaxing. Beer is good cold and also offers a way to be With. the crowd, keep up with the \norm\ and therefore socialize. Bongs taste good too, don't they? Do they not also offer that kick of creativity, relaxation, adherence to norms and just good fun? Drugs alter physical sen- sation. They heighten or lower our creativity, sobriety, and brain cell supply. What are our motivations for using drugs, whether they be recreational or social, around the bong or in front of the newspaper? Do we need the stuff? Are we looking for something? I say we need what we are looking for.- We need new ways of looking at things, we need to be awake to study long hours, we need to be with friends, to laugh, to have recreation, to work. well, and to be accepted. Gomg on a term abroad is another vivid learning ex- perience. i recently lived in France for a trimester and had an opportunity to live with a French family. I received something different than a touristic or history-book per- spective of Rennes, France. Perhaps because I am an English major, I am biased towards the arts. I find that literature reveals vast resources of past, present, a and future modes of thought and creativity. Through books w,hich one can discover through literature courses or in- dependently, we have a chance to learn from some · of mankind's greatest artists. Actually going out of the way to visit with individuals dif- ferent than ourselves, is yet another way to continue this creative learning process. Poor, wealthy, bums, e~ecutives, young, and especially, the elderly, all give fascinating new ways of looking at things. It doesn't matter if we agree with t~e opini?n.s ?f all the people we fmd, but It IS unportant to listen to try to understand what they believe, to realize that people like that exist, and to try to learn from them. How does religion fit in with all this? I saythat we find a real satisfaction, as well as a solid foundation for personal growth, by being a participating member of a group, temple, or church. As the diesel truck needs diesel fuel, 'so we need to have a relationship with God, the master chess-player. Let us give ourselves to this friendship with Quality as described in Isaiah 55 and let us learn how to live creatively. COMMENTARIES From Where I Stand By WAYNE JOSEL OK, all of you senior social science, and select humanities majors! It's time to stand up and be counted! You are working on your senior thesis, you understand all of the benefits you are gaining from it, and you are tired of hearing how easy taking just two classes must be! The senior thesis must be the least understood event of a Union College career. Majors in Political Science, Economics, History, Sociology, and some in various Humanities depart- ments, undertake an in- dependent research project for two terms during their senior year. The thesis is feared, derided,. avoided, and ignored. Yet it is probably the single most academic and intellectual project that maay will involve themselves with during their lifetimes. It is time that what many consider a torture be exposed for what it really is. Senior theses at Union separate the men and women from the boys and girls. We have all heard the story of the Poli Sci-Psych major who went all psych his senior year to avoid the thesis. Talk about classic wimping-out! 1 Sure, I am not going to deny that writing a thesis is the major barrier to happiness in my lik But let's put this into per- spective. We. social science majors have put three long years into the pursuit of truth and knowledge. We have done our classwork, read books, written papers, etc. Yet after three full years, there is still that burning question that was not answered to our satisfaction. We decide that we are going to devote the equivalent of twenty weeks of classtime answering that question with the patient guidance of an advisor who also has a minor interest in our topic area. We spend weeks and then months searching for material, poring over books and articles, writing and rewriting, revising and reworking, chapter after chapter. We get angry at friends, neglect our other class work, avoid the critical job search. We get sick, we stay up late, we procrastinate, we drink too much on those rare nights off, and on those maey nights we procrastinate. Eventually, I and in many a case, God willing), we arrive at a finished product at the end of the winter term. But what does all of this mean in the long run? Well, if nothing else, we have the best excuse of all to get incredibly out-of-hand in the spring. We also have an extra line on our resUihes. But I like to feel that we also have something to be proud of in the years beyond. I have'found that people are impressed when you tell them you are working on a thesis. They also think much more highly of Union when they find that it's required in many departments. There is also a sense of accomplishment in knowing you've really put a great amount of effort in a single pursuit for a long period of time. So, now that I've given my fellow thesisizers something to think about when they next get upset, and the rest of the seniors a little insight into what kind of torture we're going through, I guess I'll get back to work writing that chapter that's due next week. Or maybe I'll just go to the 'Skellar for a beer first! letters to- the editor and not commentaries do necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. Anything bothering you? ... Make yourself heard! Write a leHer to the editor To all student activity chairmen: All boxes for Concordiensis must be typed! If you wish to run an ad for more than one week, please cut the ad out of the paper and tape it to a ~heet of paper. When changes are made to an ad that was previously r.un, the ad ad must be rety·ped as well

Page to CLASSllfED~. Sweet Adelines, Inc., is again offering their \Love Notes in Harmony''--a musical \Valentine\ SWlg in four-part harmony, barbershop style. Your loved one will be serenaded by a single or double quartet from River Valley and presented with a flower. These \singing love notes\ will be delivered anywhere in the Capital District. To send a \Love Note in Harmony,\ contact Sally Owen's of 1119 Dean Street, Schenectady at 346-4863 bet- ween 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. daily. Marilou Garrison, phone 382- 5668 after 6 p.m. Typing of thesis for $1.00 a page. SUMMER JOB OP- PORTUNITY: A Christian Ministry in the National Parks. Information and application forms: Religious Programs Office, Carnegie, Fourth Floor. Another Chance, Another Dance. Due to the bad weather last Thursday night, only 50 people carne. St. Paul's Dan- cing Angels wm sponsor another FREE SQUARE DANCE for beginners this Thursday, Feb. 7th, at 8 p.m. at St. Paul's School Gym, 2733 Albany St., Schenectady. We are a family club, ages 9-90. Singles welcome. For more info: Helen Penna 399-4522. Come experience the fun and family. Engaged? Save money-rent silk altar arrangements and bows for church pews-$35. Call Gen at 399-7761. FOUND: A pair of red sunelasses outside Carnel!ie on Tuesday, February 5. Claim them n1 Mrs. Marra's office. Amateur photographers of all ages are invited to enter ''A Nation of Readers,\ a national photography contest the Albany Public Library is sponsoring ACROSS 1 Frighten 6 Saber 11 Refrained from yi!lng 12 Weirder 14 Agave plant 15 The II'MifiiiiOP 17 Drink heavily 18 Individual 20 Besmirch 23 Playing card 24 Saucy 26 Home-run king 28 Symbol lor nHon 29 Cubic meter 31 Showllr~ lor 33 Young horse 35W\hered 36Sof• 38Ral- 42 Teutonic o:t.1tr 43 Weighting deYiolt 45BarriCUd!! 48 Cover 48 Barter 50 HeaHh l'li60f1 s·1 Poema 53 Small amount 55 Thres-loed alolh 56 Tidier 59 Dormant 61 Monumertla: &bbl'. 82 Scoff DOWN 1 Kind of plano 2 S~bollor calcium Answer's in next week;s issue CONCORDIENS/S, February 7 1985 with the American Ubrary Association. Entries are accepted in two categories: black and white and color. In each category, there will be two classes for judging, youth, threugh .grade 12, and adult. Deadline for entries is 5:00p.m., Saturday, March 16. Photographers may enter only one local contest. Complete rules and entry blanks are available in the Main Library, 161 Washington Avenue, the Pine Hills Branch Library, 1000 Madison Avenue; the Delaware Branch Library, 328 Delaware Avenue, and the John A. Howe Branch Library, Schuyler and Broad Streets. On February 16th and 17th, 1985, competitive auditions will be held in New York City to determine the winners of 21 scholarship ·awards at The Americ~n Musical and Dramatic Academy. AMDA, founded in 1964, ac- cepts a limited number. of theatre students into a two year conservatory program offering Total Training for the Actor. This unique curriculum in- cludes instruction in Acting, Singing Techniques, Musical Theatre Performance, Speech and Dance. University af- filiations are offered for those students interested in obtaining college credit and a full range of financial aid services. For information regarding the scholarship program, in- terested students or faculty should contact the Director ·of Admissions at (212) 787-5300. WANTED: Behind the walls college student seeking correspondence, :Friendship From people that care. w-m 24, 5-7, 145lbs., br. hair, 2 years left out in 86. Your photo will get mine. ALL responses answered and welcomes. Send to Ron Lawler, 82-c-539, Box 149, Attica, New York 14011. • Court Gestures comedy troupe to perform. Showtime is Thursday, February 7 at Cabaret. All members please be present, or be trapezoidal. Last Week's Answers 3 Macaw <I Soaks 5 Dropsy 6 Comp1183 point .7 Pronoun 8 Monel 9 OlslurbNtce 10 Rely on 11 Halts 13 L- 16 Scorch 19 Build 21 War god ~1-+-~-i 22 Pirate flag 25Joge 1-...-l~\'--1 27 The nostrils 30 ChOose ~--~~ 32 Harvests 34 Rip --&--1 36 Surgical thread 37 Wears away 38 Bridge term ' 40 Mend 41 Sedate «Prepares for \JJ-i-+-+--1 47 = ~--'--1 49 ShOrt jM:ket 52 Mullo: .. 1--1--1 wriHen 54 Before ~-I 57 Latin conjunctiOn 58 Ru~ abbr. 80 Hebf'liW letter - \ . - . The Japan Experience: Come learn about the people, the culture, the life. The ,students returning from the term abroad in Japan will be having an in- formation and discussion session on Thursday, February 7 at 7:30 p.m.. in Fox Lounge. Everyone is invited. The Film Committee presents on 2-8 - 2-10, \The Bounty\ at 7, 9, 11. On 2-12, \The Jtmgle Book\ at 7, · 9, 11. Tickets available in Carnegie for $1. Films shown in SS 016. PERSONAtS For your free booklet on How to Inhale Ice dial toll-free 1-800- 555--Greg. CAR FOR SALE: '77 Olds Cutlass. 75,000 miles. P-B p-S, bucket seats, AC Hi-Fi Stereo. Excellent condition. Price negotiable. Must sell. Call Matt 370-6916 between 5:30 and 6:30. Nina, Happy 22nd! All grown up and so many places to go! Betsy, thanks for putting up with all my crazy stunts and stories. I can't think of anyone I'd rather share them with! I hope I have more to share over Spring Term .... One third + of the phone bill. Bill R. Jr., A very happy 3 days after your legality. I sure am happy I found your number, and thanx for spending those weekend nights with me ( oh, · thank Evan for me, wouldyou?) Until we speak again ... Charlie ROB .... can I bother you, or are you in the middle\ of a crisis??? I want to thank you for all that great fun last week, and I've got a surprise for you for Valentine's Day. Give mea call, and I'll tell you all about it. Bill ... I don't see anything wrong with your picture, and besides, your personality is amazing! Just kidding, both are tops! P.S. did you get the sox you wanted for your bir- thday? .; .. Charlie For your free book on How to Ride a Chairlift dial toll free 1- 800-555-BEEF Michelle+Hang in there kid. You're doing great!! Spring term is just around the corner. Love, your favorite Big Sister Dear Ann G., Get well soon! We love you! S, J, K,'L, R, A, N Dear Skyd, HAPPY BIR- THDAY TO YOU! We love you! S, J,K,A,A,N, R SDT Pledges: Good job, so far! Btit, there's more fun to came! Sliza, I'm getting a new bed soon so that you can be more comfortable iri your new home. Welcome to my abode! Handcuffs ... Pins ... Oh Chris, had I only known! Geez, where've you been all my life? Vengefully yours, Tatiana · Psst! John is a CREEPY GUY. LOLA-Save us! ! ! ! Your beloved Rec and Hemmer Bahama Boys: Welcome Home!!! Was it worth it? Where to next?! Glad to have . you back. Love ya both, Julie Valentine's Day is. coming!!. Sweetheart personals are only 25 cents each and forms are available at the box office. Bring completed forms up to the Concordy office by Tuesday afternoon. To the women of Perma-smile Land: I am starting to fall, and I'm not so relaxed· anymore. Love ya! Miss Non-chalant Herself To my roomie at 1601: Let's get married! Then we won't have to worry about splitting the furniture OR the cat! Love, your roomie Our thanks to Ken, Karen, and Georgia for giving us the will and desire to run more stairs, lift more wieght, and get more psyched than ever! Looking forward to the Crash B's and a great season! Love, the Union Crew Women FELLOWSHIPS Reuben H. Donnelly is looking for a sales-marketing intern for June - August 1985. It is a full- time position for students completing their jWlior year. Applicants must be mature, reliable~ have good writing ability, interpersonal skills, and ability with statistical analysis. Please submit resume by the end of February. More 'in- formation in the Catreer Development Center. SPEAKERS Frederick Hartwig, Chair- man and Associate Professor of Political Science, will lecture on \Political Polling i.i1 American Demecracy,'' Tuesday, February )9, at 4:30 p.m., SS016. Coffee and tea at 4:00 p.m. All are welcome to attend. Brenda Wineapple, associate professor of English at Union College, will discuss \Making Spectacles of Themselves: Women & Fihn\ at a lWlcheon colloquium Thursday, Feb. 7, beginning at 12:30 p.m. in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall. The talk is free and open to the public. Bring a lunch; coffee and tea will be provided. Wineapple's lecture will k.ick off a film series sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status of Women and Women's Network, comparing films from. four djfferent decades. That evening, \All About Eve\ will be shown. other films and dates are: \Some Like It Hot,\ Feb. 14; \Klute Feb. 21; and \Looking for Mr. Goodbar,\ Feb. 28. There will be no charge for · the films, all of which will be shown at 9 p.m. in Social Sciences Building, Room 016. The Arts Department of Union College in conjunction with the Schenectady Museum is presenting a lecture on February 19th at 4:00 p.m. Arts Building Room 2H{ by Dr. Giogio Bonsanti, Director of the Balleria dell' Accademia, Florence, Italy. The title of his lecture is \The Conservation of Florentine Paintings.\ All interested members of the commWlity are invited. VIA VENETO CAFE A new bar at the Appian Way Invites v·ou To UNION COLLEGE NIGHT Tonight from 9-2 a.m. Specials ·Include . *rigatoni bolognese $3.50 *individual, homemade Pizzas w/unique toppings--~0(: *mixed d.rinks--$1.00 *and more! This Friday: LA(JIES NIGHT Special: Mixed Drinks $1.00 Domestic Beer soc:: Now Open Sundays 1 p.~.-9 p.m. 1841 ·Van Vranken *Special Sunday Dinners: Homecooked Italian Specialties

for full- year. . ' and the in- of on p.m., 4:00 7, the Hall. to kick by on and ring \All are: 14; oking 8. for ill be locial 016. 1t of 1ction sewn ~ on p.m. r Dr. 1f the nia, ,f his :m of fthe l en '· Jean-Claude Lamberti of the University of Paris (Sorbonne) will speak (in English) on \Democracy Outside America, According to Tocqueville. '' Prof. Lamberti is the pre- eminent French authority on the writings of Alexis de Tovqueville. Sponsored by the Minerva ·Committee; and the Political Science and Modern Languages Departments. The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to an- nounce the following colloquiwn: Bias in Theory: A Feminist Critique, February 8 (Friday), 3:30p.m. by Kathleen Winiger, Union College. All colloquia are held in the Humantiies Bldg, Rm. 213. Receptions afterwards held in Humanities Lounge. Colloquia are open · to the public; for further information call Marianne Snowden ( 518) 370-6376. CLUB NEWS Newman Fold Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and· musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members welcome. Prayer-Scripture Study Groups- Monday, February 11th at 5 p.m. and Wednesday, February 13th at 11:30 a.m. with Sr. Joan in. Religious Programs Office. · Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, February 11th at 8 p.m. in the 4th floor Lounge, Carnegie. Tutorial Program- Any Union student interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week primarily to second graders ef St. John the Evangelist School, ple~se contact Liz Karazim, 37{)-6774. Visit to Shut-Ins- Sunday, February lOth or at your con- venience during the week, Union students will make a Valentine Visit ami bring a flower to Shut-Ins of St. John the Evangelist. Any student in· terested in participating .please contact Sr. Joan, 370-6087, or stop by Religious Programs Office. Reception to Honor Tutors- Friday, February 8th as part of Catholic School Week the faculty of St. John the Evangelist invite all Union students who have been part of the Tutorial program to a .social at the school from 10 to 11 a.m. HELP WANTED Looking for student to bar- tend on Saturday nights, possibly Friday night at Gravel Gerties on Van Vranken Ave. Please contact 370-6220(w) or 372-7673(h). - Housekeeper - Childrens companion Mature Iovin~ CONCQRDIE'NS/S, February 7, 1985 _ Page 11 person to care for my home & school age children - 15 hrs. per week during school year and :25 hours per week during summer . $5:00 per hour - Own car r.equired. Call 393-3260 on weekends after 6 p.m. or 370- 6259 during day. Student to work every Sat. & Sun. between 4-8 hrs. each day. $4.00~hr. plus mileage. General Maintenance Location Loudonville. Please contact 456- 6280. Evening telephone sales - cash pay. For more information please call Kathy or Bill at 374- 1492 or 374-5372. \Hair Today, Gone Tomorrow\ PERMANENT HAIR REMOVAL We use the all new short wave instantron electrolysis equ.pment featuring and provid•ng the best, most· comfortable treatment for the removal of unwanted hair·on the face, arms, .leg-s and bOdY. • •••••••••••••••••••••••••• * Free Consultation * Free Demonstration * * Free Brochure on Request * FREE TREATMENT And 20 % off any future treatments within 3 0 days New.pat1enrs only whert ad •s presented on m•t•al vts•t at one locatron only valla thru 219185 *ALICE A. BAKER INC.* CCB-7 EstaDitshed 1972 • Graduate of Kree lnsltfute Member of N.V .E.A .• A.E.A. and Tl'le Gu1ld 127 Canal Square, Schenectady • 382·0087 363 Central Avenue, Albany • 462·5678 --:--110iiRiiisoNS-CHiNisiR£srA·UiANiol . Phone: 393g5440/393-5441 Hours:.sun-Th~ 11:30-10:00 . 1 • 0 • Fn-Sat 11:30-11:00 Speciatize m Cantonese, Closed Mondays l · \ Szechuan & Hunan . T_ake out or Eat In · We prepare our foods with . . . Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance I 1 0% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student I.D. 183 Nott Te-rrace: Across from Holiday Inn ;_Q-.<I_Q_D_D_ G-· • • ' • - ,• ' • . • • ' ' • . • • • . • • • • <' • • . • • • ~· . • . ' ' ' • ' ' • FRESl-IMAN . I you· 1<£. C..~A.Z.. Y • I tJt=-VE:g_ ~E.T OfF A. SMoJ::.f- AL~ £2-1\\ IN tJ\ Y L.n=e:- ~ T 0\-1 ({£ALLY- cArJ You f~ov~ -THAI ? WE. k_NoW YOU S.E.T 0¥\? . A SJV\01::-E. Al-AI\IV1! Yt.AH! T W~T(/ NO!- I ·fr-lE'N YOU I RE- FJNED! -\ A~RIV£5 ~EY. I 80tJk! BoNk! r cOFl:-ES BREA kf \ ~) 60NNA yf:_Airl I A fiN£:.. 11

Page 12 Ethiopian Jewry Presentation and discussion with Paul Zonderman renowned authority on the Ethiopian S·ituation TONIGHT Thursday, February 7 in Strauss lounge at 8 p.m. Sponsored by the Jewish Student Union FILM SERIES A comparison between films of four different decades: TODAY: February 7: \Making Spectacles of Themselves: women & Film\ A colloquium by Brenda Wineapple, Banquet Rm., Carnegie 12:30 All About Eve February 14 Some Like It Hot February 21 Klute February 28 Looking for Mr. Goodbar All At 9:00. In SSO 16 Free Sponsored by Women's ~e!work and women's Comm•ssaon Attention All Club Heads: Club Status Reports are due Friday, Feb. 15 at 5:00p.m. in Mrs. Marra' S· Office Hand in or else . •• CONCORD!ENSIS, Ff!hruary 7, 1985 PRESENTS: ACT 1: The Infamous COURT GESTURES ACT n: BRIAN LAUX. WITH MC: Mark (\Hal Hal\) Webster Thursday, ·February 7th at 9 and 11 p.:m. Tickets on sale now. at the Student Activity Booth for $1. 50 Come One, Come Alii Beer; Wine and Munc'hle·S will be served * Proper ID Is Required,* The Chester A. Arthur Centennial Lecture Series on Politics Sponsored by: The Department of Political Science The President's Commission on the Status of Women The Minerva Committee Mark Your Calendar Wednesday,Februaryl3 Jill Buckley, Jill Buckley Associates, Inc,--\ Political Advertising in Modern Campaigns\ Wednesday, February 20 Phil Friedman and Hank Morris, Campaign Strategies, lnc.-- \Campaign Strategies in the 1980's. Wednesday, February 27 Peter D. Hart, Peter D. Hart Research Associates, I nc.-- 11 Polls,. Voters, and Public Opinion: The Dynamics of a Campaign\ Monday, March 4 Audrey Shepard, Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee--\The Changing Role of Political Parties in Political Campaigns.\ Parking on campus requires your vehicle to be registered with the Security & Safety Department located in the Campus Operations Center. Campus Officers patrolling the campus parking areas find·a number of vehicles not registered, the information you provide when registering your vehicle allows the officers to locate you in case of traffic emergency. We have encountered many types of eme,rgencies, such as hit & run accidents, leaving- lights on, illegal parking, snow removal and thefts. Should we not be able to contact you, and it necessitates us to have your car towed, it will be very expensive and inconvenient on your part. In order for us to be of service to you and proVide the campus community the best traffic control and parking, we need your cooperation, especially now with con- struction and changing traffic patterns. It is possible a number of vehicles may have to be moved for a con- struction problem. Please don't be the only person the officer could not locate due to your not taking a few moments of your time to register your vehicle. ... 11! .0 ::> ... () '0 > Ill 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 J: a. u 0 >- .0 2 0 .c Cl. 1.. Cll .0 ::J 1.. (!) '0 \> '0 a ).. .Q .e c .c: Cl.

~n r n e .... 11! .0 ::l .... t!l '0 ·:;; Ill 0 >- .0 0 .. 0 .c 0. u 0 >. .0 E· 0 .c a. 1.. Q) .0 ::l 1.. (!) :2 > Ill a ).. .0 E 0 .c Q. 1.. ill .Q :J 1.. (!) \0 \> fll a ).. .Q E 0 .c Q. CONCORDIENS/f.J~ February 7, 1985 Page 13 WINDOW VIEWS OF UNION The windows ofmysoul /throw wide open to the sun. -John Greenleaf Whittier \My Psalm'' ' ...... ... (1) .0 ::> ... <!> \0 ·:; ro Q >- .0 0 - 0 ..c: c. u 0 >- .0 e 0 .c Q.

Page 14. . ('ONCORDtENS/S, February 7, 1985 THE ARTS. McGrath gives JaHe Lecture • • • Art Appreciated By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff What does being . a U.S. Olympic skier have to do with the changing American at- titudes toward countryside as seen through paintings? I wondered about this as I awaited the beginning of the Jaffe lecture entitled \From Fear to Fecundity: The American Vision of Nature.\ On January 31 Professor Robert McGrath of Dartmough College gave a multimedia presentation which traced the evolution of ideas and paintings dealing with American countryside to a small group of Unien College students and f!lculty. mY notebook was filling up with indecipherable shorthand and I still wasn't .sure whether Thomas Cole painted the doctrine of sublimity or was that what the painting represented or W!lS he a painter and if not who painted Shrew Mountain? I .finally gave up--sat back .and tried to enjoy what was going on. Surprisingly enough, I got a lot out af the lecture .. Professor McGrath's slides showed vivid portrayals of the Adirondack and White Mountains and even though I didn't understand the technical artistic differences between the paintings-! could tell the types were different. There were beautiful The cast from Neil Simon's \Brighton Beach Memoirs,\ which played at Proctor's last weekend, poses for a famHy portrait. From left to right, standing Lisa Waltz, Richard Greene. Seated: Skye Bassett, Rocky Parker, Brian Dillinger, anCJ LynnMilgrim; front: Patrick Dempsey. As the presentation started I had no time to wonder about Professor McGrath's Olympic days because I was frantically trying to scribble down the endless string of artists, paintings and types of attitude they represent. Obviously my background with paintings (which consist of pre-school fingerpainting and a spin through the Metropolitan Museum of Art a couple times a year) was not up to par with that of the others in thr room. Professor McGrath, a highly knowledgeable and well respected specialist in.this field, held the entire audience cap- tivated with his slides of famous paintings and his in- ~erpretations of the similarities between paintings. representations of prairie scenes, river bends and various other landscapes. A most in- teresting point made by McGrath was how the VerJllont country was represented and used as propag!lnda to sell off almost 90 percent of the available land in the state. Brighton Beach Triumphs I emerged from the lecture still wondering how an Olympic skier gets 'involved with pain- tings of American countryside. I did, however, come out with two important beliefs: the first \look on nature not only with eyes, but with the heart\ and ·second, go to the lectures of- fered here at Union even if it is not your field. Union offers many chances for us to expand ourselves and to learn outside of the classroom, and it. is im- portant for us to take advantage of them. By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Staff Things have not been going well for the Jerome family. Jack, the family bread winner, loses his job, suffers a heart attack, and cannot afford to pay the bills. His eldest son, Stanley, now depended upon for money, gambles away his paycheck and runs away from home to join the Army. Jack's wife, Kate, has a fight with her widowed sister, Blanche, (who lives with them), and Blanche decides to take her two daughters, Nora and Laurie, and move out. Nora is a rebellious teenager who wants to quit school and dance on Broadway, and Laurie is a precocious eleven-year-old, pampered by everyone dtie to a slight heart murmur. Mean- while, Eugene--discovering girls at fifteen-lusts after his cousin Nora. Sound like the plot of an up- coming Days of Our Lives? Well it's not-it's the background to Neil Simon's play, Brighton Beach Memoirs, and despite those potentially tragic over- tones, it is a funny and touching family drama, full of witty dialogue and irrestible · characters. Schenectady was treated to a taste of Simon's latest as Brighton Beach Memoirs played Proctor's last Thursday and Friday nights. The play takes place in the Brighton Beach section of Brooklyn in 1937. Eugene, who simultaneously acts and narrates the play (making frequent asides to the audience to explain the action and clarify background information), is dreaming of a career as a pitcher for the New York Yankees, but if that falls through, he wants to be a writer. Toward the latter end he keeps a journal of family events, the pages of which are enacted in the play. He takes us through the daily routine of his family life-his adoration of his older brother, his awakening to girls (especially pretty cousin Nora), his mother's near- tyrannical grocery shopping habits (he is her errand boy), and his position as a scapegoat for just about any gripe the family comes up with; in one particularly amusing sequence, his father, trying to tune the radio to hear news of ixruninent WW II, yells at Eugene for having fooled with the knobs earlier, at which point Eugene turns to the audience and predicts, \Guess who's going to be blamed for the war in Europe.\ As the play progresses, the attention shifts to the problems of other family members: Laurie's isolation from her mother, Blanche's in- decisiveness and failure to recover from her husband's death over three years ago, Kate's resentment toward her sister, and Stanley's . com- promise of principles for the good of the family. Simon handles all of these subplots with great humor and com- passion. By the end of the play, when all of the personal problems have be~n resolved except' the family's economic plight, and Jack receives a telegram announcing the arrival · of seventeen more relatives fleeing Nazi-torn Europe, Kate says they'll stay \Here of course ... we'll get by,\ and somehow, the audience knows they will. This is Neil Simon's twenty- first play, and considered by many to be his best. Indeed, the production is refreshingly free of all the pathos that has plagued most of his more recent works-especially his films. But here Simon has dug back into his roots (the play is semi- autobiographical), and spent careful concentration on the story line, having first come up with the basic premise nine years before finishing it. He himself proudly admits, \The interaction between the people is much more complex than anything I've done before.\ The result is a wholly compelling comedy-drama with characters so real, so loveable, and so sympathetic that one can't help but be taken in by them. Simon says the people in the play differ strongly from his other multiple-character plays because it is the first in which \all seven people are. central characters.\ The touring company for the play, which included director Gene Saks who won a Tony for his direction of the Broadway version, was a superb ensemble that easily conveyed the in- timacy and familiarity of a true family setting. Of the seven characters, only Skye Bassett as yoWlg Laurie was less than~ spectacular. Rocky Parker, as Blanche, and Lisa Waltz, as Nora composed their charac- ters admirably, with a minimwn of self-pity and a , maximwn of determination in the face of their own frailty. Continued on page 16 Ten minutes into ·the presentation 'my hand ached, A view of the snow-covered campus from S'chaffer Library. Women and Abortion A presentation on the medical, social and philosophical aspects of abortion and its affects on women and society. With the noted speaker: Barbara Fraterrigo ~ and Ja.n Lovellof WE BA February 14, 1985 • 7:30·9:30 p.m. Stage 2, 3rd floor carnegie Hall Question/ Answer period will follow They will be interviewed on WRUC-89.7 FM at9:30 p.m. Phone in yourcjuestions at 370-6151 SPI!il~orecl by the UI!IO.n C.ollege Pro-Life For-um Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 thru the U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Calll-312·742-1142 Ext. 4269 . ,. .

~ up with and I ed the or was painter Shrew ~up--sat what I got a ~d vivid even and the could ~autiful prairie various in- by ect' and sell off of the lecture h pain- ut with first with and of- it is offers expand of is im- . -~ . ;• .. •:',' ... :·~ of CONCORDIE'NSIS, February 7, 1985 Page 15 THE ARTS Film Revives an Era By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief Heaven Help Us opens in Brooklyn, 1965, at the fictitious St. Basil's parochial boys' school where a mass is being held. The boys in attendance stand and sit at the sound of a clocker. However, one of the students gets his own clocker and uses it. What results is a comical see-saw sequence until the guilty party is apprehended and dragged off for disciplinary actions .. - Rooney, · the self appointed leader of Corbet and Williams. Of caurse, Dunn. manages to prove himself to Hooney, thus, the five students form an alliance. Actress Mary Stuart Masterson (Danni J serves as Dunn's love interest in the film, she runs the local drugstore where the St. Basil's students meet. She, as does St. Basil's, aids in Dunn's coming of age. Predictable Plot the audience does not know whether to laugh or not. But the film does have its distinct poignant moments .along with the comic ones which makes it worth a look. Everyone should be able to relate to some of the problems these students face. For example, when Caesar realizes his dreams of the ivy league are unattainable to him he proelaims, ''I'll never get into Harvard; I'll have to settle for Queens CoHege.\ Some things just transcend time. This scene sets the pace for this warm comedy about boys growing up in the mid 1960s and the barriers that confront them. One such obstacle is their English teacher, Brother Constance (Jay Patterson), a strict disciplinarian who takes delight in physically and mentally abusing five of his students: Michael Dunn c Andrew McCarthy), Caesar ! Malcom Danare), Williams ! Stephen Geoffreys), Corbet r Patrick Dempsey), and Rooney (Is::evin Dillon, actor Matt Dillon's sound-alike, look- alike youngeJ;\ !:>rather). The picture itself was filmed on location in Brooklyn, Manhattan, and other New York City locales. The mood was set throughout the film by music of the 60's which included the following: \Come See About Me\ by The Supremes, \My Girl\ by The Temptations, and ''Tuttie Frutti\ by Little Richard. · Heaven Help Us was directed hy Michael Dinner and produced by Dan Wigutow and Mark Car1iner. The movie was written by Charles Purpura and starred Donald Sutherland. John Heard, and Andre~ McCarthy. Heaven. Help Us is ~ Silver Screen Films Production in association with Home Box. Office Pictures. The film was released by Tri-Star Pictures. Corbet (Patr.ick Dempsey), Rooney (Kevin Dillon), Michael Dunn (Andrew McCarthy). Caesar (Malcolm Danare) and Williams (Stephen Geoffreys, seated) star as a group of young boys coming of age and discovering who they are in a Catholic high school in the 60s in the warm and rousing new comedy \Heaven Help Us.\ The film is now playing at Crossgates Mall. Dunn enters the scene as a newcomer to the school. He quickly falls in with Caesar, the class brain. Dunn is sub- sequently confronted by Heaven Help Us is a good film although its plot is predictable. Hollywood has reworked this same story line over and over again 'and with better results such as in The Flamingo Kid. There are a few occasions when Bruce Hits Syracuse DEPARTMENT OF THE ART AT UNION Presents a Jaffe Lecture James Ackerman Arthur Kingsley Porter Professor of Fine Arts Fogg Art Museum • Harvard U. PALLADIOIN AMERICA 4 p.m. Wed., Feb.13, 1985 Arts Building Room 215 Reception tor the speaker follows at 5 p.m. in the Student Forum of the Arts Buildinga The Public Is Cordially Invited to Attend COLLEGE · By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff f:1 Echoes of \Bruuuuce\ still ring in my ears. It's impossible to forget the emotional high that was created by the ap- proximately 40,000 fans who crowded the Carrier Dome on January 27 to participate in the North American \farewell\ to Bruce Springsteen and The E- Street Band . The pre-concert excitement was immense. Hoards of people swarmed through the Syracuse University campus, crowding souvenier tables in an attempt to acquire a tangible addition to their night's memories. Those who camped out for two days in below freezing weather as well as those who paid as high as $100 for scalped tickets were about to get what they ex- pected; an amazing night with Bruce. Springsteen needed no opening band, just as he needed to do nothing more than emerge on stage to receive a thunderous roar or applause and chorus of \Bruuuuuuce\. He needed only to strike the opening chords of \Born in the USA'' and the crowd was on their feet, dan- cing, clapping and singing at the top of their lungs. He was ''rhe Boss\ and he was making his magic. \United the Audience\ Not only did he have the crowd dancing on it's feet to the upbeat tunes from the Born in the USA album, but Bruce also had them swaying in unison to the touching harmonica- accompanied ballads. Bruce united the audience-it didn't matter who you were-you weren't an individual anymore-you were part of the whole. He swept everyone up with his music and made each fan an integral part of the magic that was being created. Through his songs Springsteen was able to convey his intimacy with the audience (one of the important components of the Springsteen magic) causing the person who was sitting in the SPRING . .. . .~ $ggoo PLUS $20 TAX & SERVICE ROUND TRIP MOTOACOACH TRANSPORTATION 9 Days • 7 Nights TOUR RATE. INCLUDES: • Round Tr'iJ Transpor·tat1on w1 aw cond•lloned·l;wiltory eqwpped motm·coach to DAytona Beach ilnd Ft * TRIP DATES * March 2 . March 9 March 9 - March 1 6 • March 16- M~rch 23 March 23 - March 30 March 30 - Ap11l 6 DAYTONA BEACH ctyve OUII FORT LAUDERDALE l iluderdnle • CtH1V€11U!Ill Dl!~rll't.twe rt11nts Apr1l 6 · April 13 BOOK EARLY! L1m1ted Hotel Space 1n Ft. Lauderdale and Onvtona Beach TRANSPORTATION: Round trip transportation is available on our coaches. Motor- coaches depart from main bus terminal in major cities. Service is express making. only food stops. ( Departure times and dates have been carefully planned to coincide with the check ·in lime of the hotels. Coaches dep~;~rt on Friday and arrive back the following Sunday. Departure dates are: Mar. 1 return Mar. 10, Mar. B·return Mar. 17, Mar. 15 retum Mar. 24, Mar. 22 return Mar. 31. Mar. 29 return Apr. 7, Apr. 5 return Apr. 14. Coaches are the most modern and up-Iodate models with reclining seats and are fully air conditioned and lavatory equipped for your comfort. 252~02 Northern Boulevard • little Neck. New York 11363 New York City Long Island Westchester 718·631-3800 516·222·0155 . 914-997·0140 New Jersey 201·623·4868 very last row in the third tier to feel as close to him as those in the front row. The magic works for Springsteen because he's not just another rock star. Rather, he's a person-he's Bruce, and everyone can relate to that. His songs as well as his actions prove this repeatedly. During the show Bruce announced his $10,000 donation to the Central New York Food Bank and asked for the audience to support it also. He followed up his pitch with an appropriate song, \My Hometown\. , Fans cheered as Bruce announced that he hated high school and homework-how could anyone in the audience not relate to that? His music made the audience think . . . and helped them to forget . . . The Springsteen concert- goers should have emerged satisfied with the two and a half hours of entertainment (which included two sets and an amazing · encore of selections) yet there was a feeling of in- completeness on that Sunday. Bruce performed a wide array· of music which included, \Darlington County\ \Glory Days'', ''Hungry Heart'', \Darkness on the Edge Of Town\ \Reason to Believe\ \Dancing in the Dark\ and the Elvis Presley ballad, \I Can't Help Fallin in Love With You\-wasn't that enough? I kept hearing \I want to hear \Rosilita\' or \Pink Cadillac\ or Saturday's closing number \Santa Claus is Coming to Town\. Everyone was sailing on a euphoric high for more than 2% hours-whi did they need more? I can cite the opinion of the 40,000 Springsteen fans who were at the Carrier Dome that Sunday night- YOU CAN NEVER GET ENOUGH OF BRUCE!!!!! UNTITLED dreams die with hopes, and witlr them, the zest for living. -Maria Lomotan

Page 16 CONCORDIENS/S, February 7, 1985 TH.E ARTS I \ ' ·· .. \\ \Dune'' is a D.isappointmen . I J\ The Le.witsk.y Dance company will be performing at Proctor's on Wed., February 13 at8p.m. By TOD DIMMICK Arts Staff There are times when certain things are fine the way they are, and thus better left untouched. This is certainly true of movies. Dune as a book did not appeal to everyone, but it was a detailed, coherent and believable story. Perhaps it was too detailed to be cast into a movie of less than six hours. The director cut out pieces essential .to the plot; then seemed to fill the resulting holes in the story with new twists and events that somehow didn't quite make sense. It is possible that these changes were part of an effort to make the movie comprehendable to_ the average movie-goer, but something got lost in the process. Ends were left unfinished, events were simplified, yet still the film was incomprehensible to anyone who had not read the original book. For someone who had read the book, the film created indignation for the blunt han- dling of the subtleties of the plot. The tale of Dune is well known to the fans of Frank Herbert, the author. In a time-place far Remember the student discount ~t Proctor's; Y2 price tickets are available to students 1 hour before each show depending on availability. Pat Castelli, dance instructor at Union, is planning a Master Class in conjunction with the Lewitsky Dance Company on Tuesday~ Feb. 12 in the late afternoon. Call the Arts Dept. for more info. removed from this world there is a galaxy-wide human empire. Transportation through the galaxy is provided by the Spacing Guild, who possess Skills given to them by their drug addiction. The drug is called Melange, or Spice, and its unique properties allow the user to see througl:l time and space. The economy of the empire is based on the Spice coin, which is found on one pla~et o~y: Dune. Under the rulmg Emperor are many royal persons whose territories cover solar systems. In Dune we encounter the House Atreides, led by Dlike Leto Atreides, as the basic good guys and the House Harkonnen, with Baron Vladmir Harkonnen as the arch-fiend. Sworn enemies, these houses battle for contro~ of Dune and the resulting power of such control. The plot deepens, and there are many subtly drawn characters on both sides to draw one into the world of this story. There are the wild Fremen, masters of the desert, unbeatable fighters whose loyalty would be worth a planet. The cunning Bene Gesserit sisterhood, whose well- placed missionaries come close to controlling the galaxy to fit their own secret plan. The thought-provoking detail ·of this tale is one of its attractions. Yet, unfortunately many of the attributes of the book are lost in the movie. This probably was inevitable, because few people would sit through the six hour film that could do justice to the book. Yet, Jf this is the case, the question must be asked whether it was worth it to make the movie at all, when the condensed version has lost so much, that it is almost unrecognizable. Simon's Latest Continued from page 14 Richard Greene and Lynn Milgrim (real-life husband and wife) as Jack and Kate also excelled and created the chemistry that was needed to unite these characters as a family. And newcomer Brian Drillinger gave a nearly im- peccable portrayal of guilt- ridden Stanley. Best of the lot, though, was Patrick Dempsey who, with his b\rilliant performance · as Eugene, has converted himself ~from a telatiVEfut:rinovfu·into an extremely promising young actor to be watched very closely over the next few years. The play could never have suc- ceeded. so well without Demp- sey's intricate knowledge of what motivations and emotions possess a young boy growing up in a crowded family during the post-Depression, pre-war era. Dempsey makes his movie debut this year in Heaven Help Us (reviewed in thls issue) and one can expect to hear more from this talented actor in the future. As for Simon, he has just finished work on Biloxi Blues, a sequel to Brighton Beach that goes into production soon, with Matthew Broderick reprising his Tony award-winning Broadway role as Eugene. If the new play is as compelling and enjoyable as the last, it looks like Neil Simon is headed for hit number twenty-two. Guitarist Alexandre Lagoya will perform at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on Friday, March 8 at 8 p.m •• Tickets: $10 & $7 Coming in Febmary. Quilters-Capital Rep.-now through March 3. Performances Tues.-Fri. at 8 p.m., Sat. 4:30 and 9 p.m., Sun. 2:30. Tickets at the Market Street Theatre and Community Box Offices, $9.50 to $15. The Taming of the Shrew-Egg Performing Arts Center-now through Feb. 9. Performances at 8 p.m. Tickets $5 for students. Making Spec~cles of Themselves: Women and Film-Prof. Brenda Wineapple of the English Department lectures today. Thursday, Feb. 7 at 12:30 p.m. in the Banquet Rm., Carnegie. Portraits of Women-Prof. Leatrice Mendelsohn of the Arts Dept. will lecture to the Schenectady Chapter of the American Association of University Women, today, February 7 at 1:30 p.m. in Stage 2, Carnegie. If interested in hearing the talk, contact Mendelsohn at x6731. Workshop of Two Act Plays-Directed by Elizabeth Harder. The Skidmore Lodge Studio, The Skidmore College Dept. of Theater- Feb. 7, 8 and 9 at 8 p.m. Call584-5000 x234Tfor more information. Free admission. · The Desperate Hours-Suspenseful drama-RPI Playhouse- Feb. 8, 9, 15, 16 at 8 p.m. Tickets $4. Tony Bennett-Proctor's Theatre- 8 p.m.Sat., Feb. 9. Tickets $16, $12.50 (halfMprice half hour before showtime) A Tribute to Bach-8UNYA Main Theatre-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 9. Admission is free. · Barbara Heller-One-woman acoustic show-Cafe Lena. Sun., Feb.10. Lewitzky Dance Company-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Wed., Feb. 13. Tickets $14, $12, $8.50. Compagnie Phillipe Genty..-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Thur., Feb. 14'. Tickets $12.50, $10.50, $7.50. Toshiko Akiyoshi Jazz Orchestra-Troy Savings Bank Music Hall-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 16. Tickets $13 and $11. Munich Chamber Orchestra-Troy Savings Barik Music Hall-8 p.m., Tues., Feb.19. Tickets $7 for students. · Introduction to the Music of West .Africa-Arts DeP.artment Recital Hall-7:30p.m., Fri., Feb. 22. Admission free. Marcel Marceau-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 23. Tickets $16, $13.50, $9.50. . Quintet-ESIPA~Empire State Plaza at the Egg, Feb. 24, 25. Call473-3750for information. Bancheto Musicaie Concert-Troy Savings Bank.Music Hall-8 p.ni., Tuesday, Feb. 26. Tickets: $10 and $7. Call Box Office at 273- 0038 for information. The Irish Rover-s-Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m., Tues., Feb. 26. · Rigoletto-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Thurs., Feb. 28. Tickets $20,$17,$12. Medea-Siena College Dept, of Fine Arts and Stage Three-Fay · Campus Center Theatre-8 p.m., Feb. 28, March 1-2, March 3. Matinee at 2 p.m. Ticket information: 393-5732.

Page 16 CONCORDIENS/S, Fehruarr 7, 1985 TH.E ARTS \Dune\ is a Disappointmen The Lew1ts1<y oance company will be performing at Proctor's on Wed., February 13 at8 p.m. By TOD DIMMICK Arts Staff There are times when certain things are fine the way they are, and thus better left untouched. This is certainly true of movies. Dune as a book did Hot appeal to everyone, but it was a detailed, coherent and believable story. Perhaps i<t was too detailed to be cast into a movie of less than six hours. The director cut out pieces essential to the plot; then seemed to fill the resulting holes in the story with new twists and events that somehow didn't quite make sense. It is p0ssible that these changes were part of an effort to make the movie comprehendable to the average movie-goer, but something got lost in the process. Ends were left unfinished, events were simplified, yet still the film was incomprehensible to anyone who had not read the original book. For someone who had read the book, the film created indignation for the blunt han- dling of the subtleties of the plot. The tale of Dune is well known to the fans of Frank Herbert, the author. In a time-place far Remember the student discount JBt Proctor's; V2 price tickets are available to students 1 hour before each show depending on availability. Pat Castelli, dance instructor at Union, is planning a Master Class in conjunction with the Lewitsky Dance Company on Tuesday~ Feb. 12 in the late afternoon. Call the Arts Dept. for more info. removed from this world there is a galaxy-wide human empire. Transportation through the galaxy is provided by the Spacing Guild, who possess skills given to them by their drug addiction. The drug is called Melange, or Spice, and its unique properties a.Uow the user to see through time and space. The economy of the empire is based on the Spice coin, which is found on <me planet <i>nly: Dune. Under the ruling Emperor are many royal persons whose territories cover solar systems. In Dune we encotmter the House Atreides, led by Duke Leto Atreides, as the basic good guys and the House Harkonnen, with Baron Vladmir Harkonnen as the arch-fiend. Sworn enemies, these holises battle for control of Dtme and the resulting power of such co.ntrol. The pLot deepens, and there are many subtly drawn characters on both sides to draw one into the world of this story. There are the wild Fremen, masters of the desert, unbeatable fighters whose loyalty would be worth a planet. The cunning Bene Gesserit sisterhood, whose well- placed missionaries come close to controlling the galaxy to fit their own secret plan. The thought-provoking detail of this tale is one of its attractions. Yet, unfortunately many of the attributes of the book are lost in the movie. This probably was inevitable, because few people would sit through the six hour fi1m that could do justice to the book. Yet, if this is the case, the question must be asked whether it was worth it to make the movie at all, when the condensed version has lost so much, that it is almost unrecognizable. Simon's Latest Continued from page 14 Richard Greene and Lynn Milgrim (real-life husband and wife J as Jack and Kate also excelled and created the chemistry that was needed to unite these characters as a family. And newcomer Brian Drillinger gave a nearly im- peccable portrayal of guilt- ridden Stanley. Best of the lot, though, was Patrick Dempsey who, with his brilliant performance as Eugene, has converted himself from a relative unknown into an extremely promising young actor to be watched very closely over the next few years. The play could never have suc- ceeded so well without Demp- sey's intricate knowledge of what motivations and emotions possess a young boy growing up in a crowded family during the post-Depression, pre-war era. Dempsey makes his movie debut this year in Heaven Help Us (reviewed in this issue) and one can expect to hear more from this talented actor in the future. As for Simon, he has just finished work on Biloxi Blues, a sequel to Brighton Beach that goes into production soon, with Matthew Broderick reprising his Tony award-winning Broadway role as Eugene. If the new play is as compelling and enjoyable as the last, it looks like Neil Simon is headed for hit number twenty-two. Guitarist Alexandre Lagoya will perform at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on Friday, March 8 at 8 p.m .. Tickets: $10 & $7 Coming in February Quilters-Capital Rep.-now through March 3. Perlormances Tues.-Fri. at 8 p.m., Sat. 4:30 and 9 p.m., Sun. 2:30. Tickets at the Market Street Theatre and Community Box Offices, $9.50 to $15. The Taming of the Shrew-Egg Performing Arts Center-now through Feb. 9. Performances at 8 p.m. Tickets $5 for students. Making Spectacles of Themselves: Women and Film-Prof. Brenda Wineapple of the English Department lectures today. Thursday, Feb. 7 at 12:30 p.m. in the Banquet Rm., Carnegie. Portraits of Women-Prof. Leatrice Mendelsohn of the Arts Dept. will lecture to the Schenectady Chapter of the American Association of University Women, today, February 7 at 1:30 p.m. in Stage 2, Carnegie. If interested in hearing the talk, contact Mendelsohn at x6731. Workshop of Two Act Plays-Directed by Elizabeth Harder. The Skidmore Lodge Studio, The Skidmore College Dept. of Theater- Feb. 7, 8 and 9 at 8 p.m. Call 584-5000 x2347 for more information. Free admission. The Desperate Hours-Suspenseful drama-RPI Playhouse- Feb. 8, 9, 15, 16 at 8 p.m. Tickets $4. Tony Bennett-Proctor's Theatre- 8 p.m.Sat., Feb. 9. Tickets $16, $12.50 (half-price half hour before showtime) A Tribute to Bach-SUNY A Main Theatre-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 9. Admission is free. Barbara Heller-One-woman acoustic show-Cafe Lena. Sun., Feb.10. Lewitzky Dance Company-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Wed., Feb. 13. Tickets $14, $12, $8.50. Compagnie Phillipe Genty-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Thur., Feb. 14. Tickets $12.50, $10.50, $7.50. Toshiko Akiyoshi Jazz Orchestra-Troy Savings Bank Music Hall-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 16. Tickets $13 and $11. Munich Chamber Orchestra-Troy Savings Bank Music Hall-8 p.m., Tues., Feb.19. Tickets $7 for students. · Introduction to the Music of West Africa-Arts Department Recital Hall-7:30p.m., Fri., Feb. 22. Admission free. Marcel Marceau-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 23. Tickets $16, $13.50, $9.50. Quintet-ESIPA-Empire State Plaza at the Egg, Feb. 24, 25. Call473-3750 for information. Bancheto Musicale Concert-Troy Savings Bank Music Hall-8 p.m., Tuesday, Feb. 26. Tickets: $10 and $7. Call Box Office at 273- 0038 for information. The Irish Rovers-Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m., Tues., Feb. 26. Rigoletto-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Thurs., Feb. 28. Tickets $20,$17,$12. Medea-Siena College Dept, of Fine Arts and Stage Three-Fay Campus Center Theatre-8 p.m., Feb. 28, March 1-2, March 3. Matinee at 2 p.m. Ticket information: 393-5732.

on into the There are of the fighters be worth a Bene whose well- come close alaxy to fit plan. The etail of this . many of book are probably few the six justice to is the case, be asked it to make when the lost so s almost of ~rowing up during the ~-war era. movie Help issue) and more in the has just Blues, a that with reprising If the ~lling and , it looks for hit - 23. 25. 273- • 3. Union College Speakers Forum Presents! JAYLENO!!! Jay Lena has appe.ared on ''The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson,\ Mike Douglas,. Merv Griffin, and many others, including. about 35 guest appearances on \Late Night with David letterman!\. Tuesday, February 26, 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel Only $2,00 for Union Students ' 1 Jay Lena is the funiest comedian writing today\ David Letterman, NBC Give .. . It-s A Heartwantling Experience. Each donor will receive a red and white \heartw~rming\ .scarf. We need your support on Feb. 13, 14 & 15 in Carnegie. This week at the ROCK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB Buy 2 Tacos and Get 1 Giant Cookie FREE II Attention: Dutchmen's Night Reservations are being taken on Tues., Wed.,_Thurs. ~ ights 4:30-8:30 p.m. ONLY! All those interested in work~ng on the advertisement staff of this year's FRESHMAN RECORD Please attend· a meeting on Feb. 13 . at 7:0.0 p.m. in Strauss Lounge You, too, can become involved in Union's · only weekly newspaper! Concordiensis Seeks Writers, Artists and Photograhers Call Gayle 6685 Marcy 393 .. 0612 or send your name and telephone number toBox2577 Page 17

racters on into the There are :~sters of the e fighters be worth a Bene whose well- come close to fit plan. The of this ractions. y mar.1y of ~ book are probably ca1:1se few ugh the six j l:lStice to the case, be asked it to make when the lost so almost of j emotions ~rowing up during the era. movie aven Help and more in the has just Blues, a each that with reprising If the ~lling and it looks for hit - ~un., bur., 23. 25. 273- · 3. CONCORIJIEN.<if.S', February 7, 1985 Union College Speakers Forum Presents! JAYLENO!!! Jay Leno has appeared on \The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson,\ Mike Douglas, Merv Griffin, and many others, including about 35 guest appearances on\ LateN ight with David Letterman!\. Tuesday, Februairy 26, 8 p.m. in M·em~orial Chapel Only $2,00 for Uni~on Students \Jay Leno is the funiest comedian writing today\ David Letterman, NBC • It-sA Heartwartlling Experience. • Each donor will receive a red and white .. heartwarming\ scarf. We need your support on Feb. 13, 14 & 15 in Carnegie. This week at the ROCK-N-ROLL PIZZA PUB Buy 2 Tacos and Get 1 Giant Cookie FREEl! Attention: Dutchmen's Night Reservations are being taken on Tues., Wed., Thurs. Nights 4:30-8:30 p.m. ONLY! Page 17 The Alumni Council is urging seniors to run for the position of Class Representative. The Council is the governing board Of the Alumni .of Union. Each graduating class eJects two Representatives to the Counci I. These alumni, through committee work and periodic Councu meetings, provide an important input to the CoHege decision making process. Elections to the two positions wifl take place on Friday, February 22 on the 2nd Floor of Carnegie Hall, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Only seniors are allowed to vote. Nominating petitions will be available in the Alumni Office on Monday, February 11 through Monday, February 18 and must be endorsed by 25 classmates. Petitions must be ·returned to the Alumni Office ·by 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday, February 19. AH nominees must submit their pictures. and statements to Concordiensis by 7:00 p.m. on Monday, February lB.Photos of nomin,ees can be taken by Concordiensis (fourth floor Carnegie} on Monday, February 18 at 7 p.m. only. Questions should be directed to Edie_ Berkowitz, Director of Alumni Programs at 370-6168. All thGse interested in working on the advertisement staff of this year's FRESHMAN RECORD Please attend a meeting on Feb. 13 at 7:00 p.m. in Strauss Lounge You, too, can become involved in Union's · only weekly newspaper! Concordiensis Seeks Writers, Artists and Photograhers Call Gayle 6685 Marcy 393-0612 or send your name and telephone number to Box2577

Page 18 SPORTS Athlete of the Week By PAULK. KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to junior right wing Curt Cole .of the Varsity Hockey team for capturing this week's Athlete of the Week honors. Curt has been having an outstanding season thus far as ~e has scored at least one point m every game except two. He is currently holding down a ten game scoring streak while playing on a line with center Bill Wernecke and co-captain Gill Egan. On the season Curt has eight goals and 12 assists for 20 points which places him fourth on the team. 0 In his three year career, Cole 0 has sifted 33 goals and 45 assists \E. for 78 points. According to o linemate Wernecke, \Curt makes our job a lot easier, he is unbelievable in the corners and does a lot of positive things which go unnoticed.\ Curt's consistent hard work has paid off as the Skating Dutchmen are currently ridine a nine-game unbeaten streak in Division II. Cole is a Managerial Economics major and is a brother of the Chi Psi Fraternity. Curt Cole THE WILLIAMS COLLEGE ·MYSTIC SEAPORT PROGRAM IN AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES For Further Information See Dean William Daniels Application Deadline: Feb.8 CONCORDIENSJS, February 7, 1985 ,. c. If. ~· e rg-ehal lenge ., • Rowers Get Ready 'as By LANCE HUMPHREY Sports Staff The Dutchmen Rowers are preparing rigorously for the \Crewshell Challenge,\ March 2nd and 3rd, which will take the place of last year's 48-hour erg- a-thon. But, before any of this, they are preparing to prove themselves at the '85 World Indoor Rowing Championships. This ergometer regatta is the largest of its kind in the world and will be held in Cambridge, Mass. on Feb. 17. About forty members of the Union Rowing Association. will compete in the fourth ever erg- sprints which are sponsored by the Charles River Association of Sculling Has beens. They are a group of veteran rowers from the Massachusetts area, who organize the competition. Last year, John Ciovocco, club president, competed in the lightweight division and placed a very promising 17th of 70. Chuck Lane. The following week, Skidmore and Albany State will travel to Union's Alumni Gym to com- pete in an informal erg-sprint the club put together. That race will be scored like a track meet with team times compiled te determine a winner. Carnegie Hall will be the site of the ultimate Crew Challenge on Friday, March 2. The crew team is challenging the Union to put them through the endurance test. Last year the team rowed for a grueling 48 hours, but this year the number of mHes the oarsmen must ·pull will be determined by the number of miles Union's community push them to. Donations of $1. per mile will keep the oarsmen working for as long as it takes to meet your challenge. The crew team is funded mainly by Student Activities which provides the bare minimum needed to keep the two year old team equipped. In order to be effective in inter- collegiate competition, the team depends on outside fun- . ding. Fund-raisers such as last year's Erg-a-thon provide equipment and travel expenses needed to continue the momentum which the team has gained in its second. year of existence. The team is now the largest school club, and hopes to become an official varsity sport in the coming future: 'tl :::T 0 .... 0 0' \< en .n 0 ::t 1l ... CD (/1 (/1 Competitors are eligible for one of four categories depen- ding on weight and gender, and row a five mile sprint for computerized time. Several members of Union's crew team are expected to have good qualifying times. Greg Clark, one of the largest oarsmen on the team, pulled an 8:12 time in a five mile practice piece. Other hopefuls for the open division are John Wyatt, Carl Shulz, and Graig !31um faces off while Mike Ucellini gets ready for action iA the J.V. icemen's games against Trinity-Pawling. Union College Film Committee Presents 2/8-2/10 Fri., Sat., Sun. at 7:30p.m, and 10£00 p.m. in SS 016 admission: $1.00

to ivities bare the In inter- , the ~ fun- last ovide the ar of w the pes,to sport \C ::T 0 .... 0 c:r '< IJl ,(\) 0 ::t in \'0 ... CD (/l (/l CONCORDIENSJ!J: February 7, 1985 Page 19 Scott Wykoff W. Swimmers Blast Nevv Paltz On Spo_rts By SPORTS STAFF It happened again! ! Last Wednesday, the women's switn team Won by defeating New Paltz 71 to 32. The team was helped out by many first place finishes, including Tricia Bowering was accompanied in \' \' (!) 1.. ll. t: 0 0 (/) >- .0 0 o· !: 0. th.e 100 by secc;md place finisher Jennifer Whalen. The Dut- chmen took both first and · second place in many events, including the 50 butterfly, with Georgia Sullivan winning and Donna Gardiner taking second. Karen Califano won the 100 breaststroke while Karen Stash Dutchwomen swimmers take off from the blocks in recent act1on at Foote Pool. This Week On WRUC Sports Fri., Feb. S--Hockey at Bowdoin 6:30p.m. Sat., Feb. 9--Hockey at Colby 1:30 p.m • Mon., Feb. 11--Basketball at Hartwick 7:45p.m.· Tues., Feb. 12--Hockey vs. Plattsburgh7: 00 p.m. Stay with WRUC 89.7 FM Sports . All The Way To The ECAC & NCAA Play,offs Downhill Action By CELIA MANN ANDCAROLT.P. YERDEN Sports Staff The Union College women's and men's ski teams have been training hard at Willard Mountain since the first week of winter term. The change in training location and increased involvement has had a positive effect on the team. The increase in training time has brought the team alot closer this year. Last week's race in \snowed under Buffalo\ was a success for both teams. According to coach Jim Schaeffer, \it looks like the girls have a good shot at the nationals this year.\ The result of the last race, a third place out of ten division I and II teams has brought the women's team very close to making the nationals. The teams included Syracuse, Colby, Hobart, RIT, RPI, Buffalo. USMA, and Ithaca. · The highlights for the women's slalom were Carol Yerden and Celia Mann who placed twelth and fifteenth respectively out of fifty racers. Shauna Bavar consistently enabled the team to gain the needed points to beat Hobart for third place. In the Giant Slalom, Celia Mann took 11th place with Jennifer Scully, Carol Yerden · and Liz Andora just behind. The Men's Slalom team faced the most treacherous course of the season. Bart Lehmen, a junior and by far the most improved racer, finisbed first for Union and in the top half overall. Chip Hauser did really well in his second run despite the course. In the Giant slalom, Jon Fox came in sixth overall out of 70 racers. He was the only freshman racing. Pat Vern- burn, the captain, finished in the top haJf with John R~:~nad­ stadt close behind him. took third. Betsy Boutwell had a super meet, with firsts in the 50 and thd 500 free .. Finally, Lisa Freed swam well, winning the backstroke events and the Individual Medley. Jn all, the ' small team had a fantastic meet. On Saturday, the group travelled to Plattsburgh. Although the team lost, many swirrimers had very good times. Betsy took third in the 100 free, while Donna took third in the 100 back. Bowering. swam well, with second in the 50 free and first in the 100 breaststroke. Freed had a good meet, with .a second in the IM and first in the 500 free. Her freestyle time improves her own .school record in that event. The diving team of Donna and Diane Gallece participated, but as an exhibition event, and everyone combined for a victory in the final relay. The swimmers last home meet will be Tuesday against the College of St. Rose, ·and the State meet will follow that weekend. It's anchors away for Fran Meagher as his ship will be sailing into a new port next football season. The seven year Dutchman assistant has been named head football coach at Swarthmore College. The 33 year old Baltimore native was picked from a field of 100 ap- plicants. Despite the fact that the I ,ittle Quakers finished the 1984 campaign ranked 13th in the nation !Div III) with an 8-1 record, they could only muster to dress 38 players for each game. Due tG the declining number of players in the program the small liberal arts school put a high priority in selecting a head man with a strong coaching record and an extensive recruiting backgrotmd. Meagher fit the bill on both counts. He played an integral role in Unien's football resurgence as both a tactician .and salesman. Swarthmore had previously Tracksters Excel By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Several members of the Union men's and women's track team turned in fine individual performances at the OTR~ ATAC Indoor Track Cham- pionships here at the Union College field house this past Friday night. In the field events, junior Scott Remillard won the shot put with a throw of 44 ft. 5 in- ches. He beat his closest competitor by ten inches. A degree of excitement was created before the running events got started in earnest in the high jump area. To a sparse crowd of mostly competitiors at the meet, T. Trancereti from Norwich elicited several cheers as he cleared the high jump bar at successive heights until he finally won the event with a jump of 6 ft. 9 inches. His closest competitor dropped out of the competition at 6 ft. 2 inches. In the pole vault Wayne Lacy jumped a personal best of 14 ft. but lost the event to a com- petitior from Norwich. After jumping 14 ft. in practice the day before, Lacy was disap-- pointed with the performance because he had hoped to go higher on Friday. In the running events, nationally ranked race walker Jim Mann easily won the 3000 meter walk. The Union junior finished in a time of 12:52.26. In the 1500 meter race sophomore Mike Reed came from behind in a large field of runners to place a close second with a time of 4:07.73. In the 50 meter hurdles, Lacy broke into the win column with a finish of 7.33 seconds. In the 800 meter race Union speedsters Rob Mohlar and Winston Britton led a large field to a 1-2 finish with times of 2:01.85 and 2:02.24. respec- tively. The Union men finished out the meet with a win in the mile relay clocking a time of 3:31.7. Running strong legs for the Dutchmen were Britton, Mohlar, Todd Allen and Jeff Barker. In the women's events the lady tracksters made their best showing in the 500 meter event. Cindy Curtis took the win with a time of 1:27.31 followed closely by Michele Vuolo in second coming underthe wire in 1:28.31 . With her time, Curtis qualified for the State Meet. Vuolo just missed the qualifying tlme of 1:28 by$.54 seconds. Also run- ning well for Union was Jenny Lee in the 800 meter race finishing second in 2:31.11. This coming Friday night the men's team gets back to full strength in the Capital District meet at -RPL Coach Russ Ebbets feels confident going into this meet in predicting a win for the Dutchmen over the likes of Siena, Albany State and RPI. Let's hope they do come home victorious. THURSDAYS SLAPSHOTS ICE TEAS $1.00 been directed by part-time coach Tom Lapinski. The school decided to upgrade the position to a full-time job after the completion of last season and Meagher first sent out feelers about the p()sition in December. Prior to coming to Union, Fran was an assistant football and lacrosse eoach at John Hopkins University. Meagher will begin at Swarthmore on a full-time basis in March, so Union Athletic Director Dick Sakala must find himself a new head lacrosse coach, a position that Meagher had held down during his stay at Union. Good luck to coach Meagher and his family as Swarthmore's gain will be Union's loss. Rather Walk Than Run: Dutchman race walker Jim Mann is in the midst of a banner indoo.r track season. Jim recently travelled to Madison Square Garden to participate in the prestigious Milrose Games 3000 yard race walk. The Junior finished in sixth place against walkers from all over the nation. In addition to racing for Union's indoor team, Mann is preparing to compete in the Mason Dixon Games. HE:1d at Freedom Hall in Louisville, Kentucky, the meet is con- sidered one of the major indoor events of the year. Aches and Pains: The Colby White Mules, Charlie Morrison's Skating Dutchmen opponents this Saturday, have had quite a tough go of it with injuries as of late. Colby sat atop the Eastern Division of the ECAC a few weeks ago before a number of key injuries decimated the White Mules roster. During the period since the injuries Colby has dropped to fifth in the very tough east. Coach Mickey Goulet was forced to move a number of players up from his Jayvee team and the inexperienced skaters have not been able to pick up the slack. The Dut- chmen ran into the same type of problems last year and the strong Dutchmen Jayvee program was able to produce key replacements. Double Stuff: Rarely will a pair of twins choose to attend the same college upon graduation· from high school. It's even rarer for identical twins to make that decision. And for identical twins to attend school together and play on the same athletic team is almost unheard of. Over the past few years two sets of identical twins have surfaced on the Dutchman sports front. Last year Kevin and Tim Ramundo decided to come to Union and play for Al Bagnoli's Dutchman football team. The New City, NY natives held down the left side of Union's offensive line this past fall at the guard and tackle positions respectively. Three years ago the identical twin pair of Tim and Tod Flanigan chose to attend college in the state of NewYorkandplayhockey. Tim headed north to St. Lawrence while Tod picked Union Gollege. Tim made the hockey team at St. Lawrence as a goaltender while brother Tod earned a spot irt the Dutchman system as a wing. This past year the Troy natives were reunited as Tim transfered to Union. Many a local reporter covering . Dut- chman football and hockey have been known to take a double take when approaching a locker marked Flanigan or Ramundo.

Page20 ...• Leave for Maine Tomorro.w Skaters U nbe.aten in Last 7 O·UTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK Febru~ry 7-February 11 Thursday 2/7 Women's Basketba;l:l v. North Adams 7:60p.m. By KEN SHOFELD CPS IS Last year at this time, the Skating Dutclunen were in the middle of a seven game winning streak which set the tone for their surprising playoff finish. The 84-85 Dutchmen lost a chance to equal that winning streak when the Warriors from Merrimack scored two early third period goals to salvage a 2- 2 tie with the homestanding Dutchmen. This years team may have what it takes to go all the way if all four lines continue to contribute, there is no for- mula to shut down the ·Union attack. Earlier in the week, the Union pucksters traveled to Salem State to face the Vikings who were ranked fifth in the +- ttl Q. >- .c ,, . '( '. ,. .. · ,. games as he slammed home the rebound of a Gill Egan shot. The Vikings were able to close the gap to two twice, 4-2, and 5-3, but each time the Union puckstersanswered back never letting Salem within striking distance. Tom Hodgins scored the fifth Union goal and linemate Jamie Knight notched his second of the game iato an empty net to seal the Union victory. On Saturday, February 2, the Dutchmen took on the Warriors from Merrimack. Merrimack entered the game the top team in the E.C.A.C. Eastern Con- ference sporting an 11-3 con- ference mark. The first period began with the larger Merrimack squad domiflating play. Goalie Wayne McDougall ~ ~ .c Junior netminder Wayne McDougall makes a save in Unlo.n's 2-2 tie o. with Merrimack. Steve McGillivary (25) and Tod Flamgan (27) look to clear a rebound. country. The Dutchmen defeated the Vikings 6-3, behind an impressive first . period which saw Union take a com- manding 3-0 lead. Against Salem State, the Skating Dutchmen opened the game with one of their finest twenty minute sessions of the year. They opened up a three goal lead thanks to the efforts of co~captains Gill Egan and Jamie Knight and freshman center Nelson Said. Throughout the entire period the defensive corps played heads up per- mitting few difficult shots on goalie Wayne McDougall. The forechecking was tenacious as the Vikings were constantly iceing the puck to relieve the pressure. The only goal of the second period was scored by the Vikings at the eleven minute mark. The Dutchmen's in- tensity fell off during the second stanza and a strong final period would be just what the team needed to prepare for their next foe, Merrimack. Heading into the final stanza, the Vikings were looking to make one final push for the home crowd. The third period saw Curt Cole extend his scoring streak to nine - 10 0... >- ..c ~ was at his best .for the Dut- chmen making key stops as well as benefiting from lady luck twice as Warrior blasts hit the post. At 8:30 of the first period, T.J. Ryan of the Dutchmen opened the scoring with his first goal of the year, a slapshot from the point. The play was made when center Nelson Said cleanly drew the faee off back to Ryan. At the close of the first period the Dutchmen skated off the ice with a 1-1.l lead despite being outshot 14-7. The second period saw both teams enjoy good scoring chances. The Union pucksters did a better job of containing the Merrimack forwards and as a result, dominated the period. The pressure finally paid off for Morrison's squad at 17:31 of the period when Gill Egan took a pass from Curt Cole and beat Warrior netminder Tony Daccord with a high wristshot. The period ended with the Dutchmen in front 2-0. Before most of the crowd had found their seats for the start of the third period, the Warriors had posted two goals to even the score at two. The action was end to end for most of the period with Morrison sticking to a solid 0 .,.r.-'*-~ J.li,:.-:. ii . ;;, \~· . \\'' ...AW~i%\'~-1&' Winter carnival cross-country skiers enjoy.ing the Schenectady weather. three line rotation. The dif- ference between last years team am:l the '85 edition of the Dutchmen has been a balanced scoring attack rather than one hot line carrying the team. The game ended in a tie with the Warriors failing to score on a power play at the end of the overtime session. The Skating Dutchmen continue their assault on the E.C.A.C. east with weekend road games at Colby and Bowdoin. The next l,:lome game will be February 12, against western confereace rival Plattsburgh. Plattsburgh is leading the conference and already owns a victory over Morrison's Dutchmen back in early December. ' Dut~hmen notes: Two hot Dutchmen tls of late are linemates Gill Egan and Curt Cole. EgM is 14-10-24 in his last 14 games while Cole owns at least one point in the Dut- chmen's last ten outings ... T.J. Ryan has played in the most games of any active Dutchmen at 103, 57 of those in a row . . . For those who are interested, the prospects for next years team are good losing only one defenseman and five forwards to graduation . . . Goaltender Wayne McDougal continues to provide the Dutchmen with clutch goaltending, lowering his goals against to 2.85 in Division II games ... Fri.day 2/8 Men's Hockey at'Bowaoin Men's Track C.D. Meet atR PI Women's T·~ack C.D. Meet at RPI Saturday 2/9 Men's:Basketl:la Hv. Norwi'ch Men's Hockey at Colby JV Basketball at RPI women's Basketball at Ham i I ton . Men's Swimming atHamirton Women's Swimming at Ham.ilton · Monday 2/11 Men's Basketba II atH artwick Tuesday 2/12 Men's Hockey v. Platsburgh JY Hockey v. New Paltz Women's Basketball. v. Russei'ISage Women'sSwimmingv. St. Rose Wedr.~esday 2113 Men's Baske.tba II v. Plattsburgh JV Basketball at Albany St Men's Swimming v.Aibany St. Thursday 2/14 Women's Swimming--NYStateMeet Un·ion 6 Union 2 Union 88 Kings Point 87 Middlebury 63 RPI 79 Union 71 Plattsburgh 53 Vassar 52 Plattsburgh 63 -- GARNET SCOREBOARD January 28-February 4 HOC.I<'EY (10-6-1) MEN'S BASKETBALL (10-7) WOMEN'S BASKE;:TBALL (1-11) WOMEN'S SWIMMING (2-5) MEN'S SWIMMING (1-6) 7:00p.m. 5:00p.m. 5:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 12:00 p.m. • 2:00p.m. 1 :OO.p.m. · ~:OOp.m .. 8:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 2:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 4:00-.p.m. 8:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 4:00p.m. Salem St. 2. Merrimack 2 Williams74 Union75 Union 55 Union 46 New Paltz32 Union36 Union 51 Union 25 Support Union Sports! Win Streak Snapped at 6 By MARK VAN BUREN Sports Staff The settings were similar but, the outcomes differed greatly. This was the case this past week as the Dutchmen travled to unfamiliar environs and ended up splitting their two contests. 'J.'hursday night, Union traveled to Williams College, amidst Scattered snow squalls, to face an 8-5 Ephs team in the cozy confines of their own gym. The Dutchmen fell behind in the early going, but, gained a 10-8 · advantage (their first lead of the game) when Mike Miller canned a jwnper at 13:46 of the first half. From this point on, the lead see-sawed back and forth, as neither club· could gain a decisive edge. Union grabbed the widest margin of the half, four points (31-27), with 2:26 remaining as Kevin Bartlett . scored on a fast break lay-up. Williams overcame this setback to knot the score by halftime, 35- 35, on a 17-foot jumper by Tim Walsh with :05 left. However, Walsh, who singlehandedly kept Williams in the game with 17 first half points, could not keep pace with the Union frontcourt, as the trio of Bartlett, Ken D'Orazio, and Miller scored 12, 9, and eights points respec- tively. After,. the intermission, the score remained close until a Kevin Bartlett 3-point play, at the 15:40 mark, gave the Dut~ chmen a 46-43 lead. This. was a lead that they would not relinquish. Ken D'Orazio gave Union their first double·digit advantage, 61-51, with just under ten minutes left to play. However, Williams hung tough and closed the gap to seven points, until Bartlett again converted a 3~point play to· put the game out of reach, as the Dutchmen cruised to an 88-74 victory. Williams' Tim Walsh proved that the first half was not a fluke, as he ended the game scoring fifteen points more than his average. Union employed four different defenders on Walsh throughoutout the game, but to no avail, as the junior guard ended up with a game-high 36 points. Kevin Bartlett led the Dutchmen with 34 points ( 16 for 22 shooting) and seven rebounds. He was followed by Ken D'Orazio who contributed a solid game with 19 points ( 9 for 17), 16 rebounds, six: assists, and three blocked shots. Mike Miller, the other member of the frontcourt, added 12 points .(6 for 9) and six rebounds. The outcome was not as fav{)rable Saturday night as Union traveled four hours through snow and sleet, only to drop an 87-75 decision to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. The Mariners got out of the blocks early en route to a 7~2 lead just one minute into the game, as the Dutchmen appeared extremely sluggish. They stretched the margin to ten points (17-7) at the 13:06 mark, for their biggest lead of the first period. Nonetheless, Union scrapped back, and by halftime had tied the score 35~35 on two free throws by Kevin Bartlett. Although the score appeared close, there was a feeling that the Dutchmen were not really in the game. They had been lucky to go into the locker room with the score deadlocked as they had center Ken D'Orazio on the bench for a good part of the half with three fouls, and had been outrebounded 22•12. The latter statistic is what had the coaches so concerned. This subject proved worthy of concern as Union was outrebounded in the game 44-36. The Mariners picked up in the second half where they had left off at in- termission, gradually breaking the game open with a 13-3 run midway through the period, giving them a 60-49 lead with 7: 31left to play. Union never got closer than five points the rest of the way, as they were for.ced to foul the Mariners, wqo responded by converting 14 of 20 free throws in the second period. Once again the Dut- chmen were led by seniors Kevin Bartlett and Ken D'Orazio. Bartlett scored 19 points to go along with 13 rebounds, and D'Orazio added 19 points and ten rebounds. Guard Ken Levine added 1~ points and six assists, while Neil Winawer came off the bench to contribute 11 points and fQur assists. This game snapped a six~game win streak, and drops the Dutchmen to 10-7 on the season. DUTCHMEN NOTES . Union has won eight of its last eleven games ... As a team, the Dutchmen converted an astounding 58 percent of their shots vs. Williams, but cooled off vs. USMAA shooting only 43 percent from the field . . . The Dutchmen are currently averaging 71 pts. per game. They are led by Kevin Bartlett l9.4ppg and 7.4rpg and Ken D'Orazio 17.5ppg and 9.7rpg ... Dutchmen countdown: Kevin Bartlett needs just 28 points to become the eighth player in Uniop history to surpass the 1,000 point plateau . . . . Ken D'Orazio needs just nine points to move into ·fifth place on 'the all-time list. - ex - >- ..0 0 .... 0 J: o_ ( T (N Mill esb we~ 12:: ten of . enti gat pro cl~: nes als~ vot the 1 poE pot scl rna 'I wa Pr~ By fa< Ac1 ph Pr sei mi abl thE of, for tri co: Ni1 thE CO' ev, • As Co Mi sil he an le( th:

p.m. · • p.m . .p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m . p.m. p.m. p.m. St. 2 32 n 51 n 25 ~ct as in- ng un ~st 20 rs ~n ~d a ir ~n n \' 10 !J) .c. u Q) c .c. 0. 10 0 >- .0 0 .. 0 .c. 0. Valentine's Day CXIV, No. 13 Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~aid · Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 February 1 4, 1 985 Hauser Explains Minerva Com · · members .Pr'Oiessor. Jan· LudWig·-and :J'i!l'C:k M·ari'i'nviHe, discuss fh'e recent passage of the proposed Convocation Hour. Common Time Established By DAVE MARIN Staff which to take up the issue. The Academic Affairs Council (AAC) has recently approved a Minerva Committee proposal to establish a Convocation Hour on Wednesdays from 11:30 a.m. to 12:20 p.m. beginning this spring term. As a response to the lack of a common time when the entire campus community can gather before dinner, the proposal calls for scheduling no classe~ at 11:30 a.m. on Wed- nesdays. The Student Forum also indicated its approval by voting unanimously to support Maranville explained that the Minerva Committee is an outgrowth of a part of the President~s budget allocated for lectures, films, and concerts. Dr, Maranville serves as of- ficial liaison to the President, though the committee operates essentially autonomously. It has approximately 8,000 dollars available to it to sponsor and partially sponsor events. In addition, it gives partial the ·proposal. There seems to be no op- position to the idea with the only potential problem being scheduling five-day-a-week math courses, such as calculus. The catalyst to the proposal was a comment made by Professor of Political Science Byron Nichols at the opening faculty meeting this year. According to Chairman of the philosophy department Professor Jan Ludwig who serves on the Minerva Com- ::.. mittee, Nichols (who is on term ~ abroad in Mexico) indicated .~ that there was \very little sense ~ of community and made a pitch ~ for doing something to con- 1:' tribute a greater sense of :0 .J commonality of interests.\ >- funding to the Schenectady Museum Chamber Music Series held in the Nott Memorial. The Minerva Committee is meant to \foster intellectual curiosity\ says Maranville. and is \not interested in en- tertainment.\ He believes that other organizations on campus adequately provide for that. He also does not care to sponsor the \big names\ that the Speakers Forum and other groups bring Continued from page 2 Nichols also mentioned that .o there was no common con- s covation time-a time at which a everyone on campus was free. Memorial Chapel lights up the night! Budget By MARCY BURSTINER c:: The increase of 7.3 oercent in ~ residence life fees and an ap- parent \revenue over ex- iE penditures'' of about $200,000 in ll. last year's residence fees was li discussed at the Student Forum ~ meeting last week. '§_ Vice President for Finance in the administration, John Hauser, claimed that this \surplus\ is misleading. A college accounting process is quite different from accounting in a profit-motivated organization or firm. The budget for a coming year is determined by examining expenditures ,incurred in past years and by anticipating in- creased costs for the next year. In addition, Hauser explained that there is a third cost element which is not evident in the budget figures. This last element includes depreciation costs for the facilities, the costs of major upgradings over long periods of time, the cost of both the physical plant workers and the housekeeping staff, as well Jack Maranville, Executive Assistant to the President of the College and Chairman of the Minerva Committtee, f~lt that since his committee was heavily involv~d in sponsoring and organizing campus-wide lectures, films, and concerts that it was a good forum in Valentineis Day Special *..:....page five-*· Women In Films *-page seven-* Surplus as the costs of salaries and wages in the Residence Life office . \I think you find it close to a break-even situation,\ he remarked. When planning residence life fees, which next year will in- crease approximately $110 per room on the average, salaries, energy costs, supply and repair costs, including expectations of yearly increases in each, are all taken into account. \The objective is to break even in the long term,\ Hauser explained. Some years the College Will incur a loss, and in other years it will have an excess of revenue. · The costs of ordinary renovations must also be an- ticipated, and include the replacement of furniture, the painting of the residence halls and other operating costs. However, major construction such as the building of new lounges and additional rooms is not included in the residence life budget. Allegations that fees were increasing despite a $200,000 \surplus\ must have arisen, Hauser suggested, because most people do not fully understand what the figures in the College's financial report actually signify. The report, he went on, is a public document, available to anyone who would like to examine it, and is on record at Schaffer Library. The issue was brought up before the forum, one student noted, because they were concerned about the residence fee increase and they believed an audit of the residence budget should be conducted. Student Trustee Andrew George explained that he met with Dean Mammola to discuss the matter and that he will be examining the financial report more closely in the near future. Until such a careful study is conducted, however, it is dif· ficult to determine whether or not there is \revenue over expenditures'' that is not clearly accounted for. Happy Valentine's day!

VI ltl Ol .s:: u (J) c: .s:: Q. ltl 0 >- .0 ~ 0 .s:: Q. \' Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1985 Ann Seemann comments on her recent appointment to the position of Librarian of Schaffer Library. New Librarian for Schaffer: Seemann Appointed Head By JOANNE McANDREWS The Union College com- munity congratulates Ann M. Seemann on her recent ap- pointment to the position of Librarian of Schaffer Library. Seemann received an A.B. from Oberlin College and an M.S. in L.S. from Simmons College in Boston, and has been a librarian for over twenty years. She has worked in many areas of library work such as reference, cataloguing, serials, and has also served as a bibliographer. Seemann has worked ai Cornen University in the ·graduate library reference department; at the ScheNec- tady County Public Library as a cataloguer, and she worked for three years for the Capital District Library Council, at Which time she edited the 7th edition of the Union List of Serials. peri·odicals section in the basement of the library. This shelving system will allow for five to ten years of growth. Although currently some of the functions and services of the Ubrary are automated, most are no·n-public. Within two years, an on\line public access catalogue will be installed, replacing the current card catalogue system. CHUC II Plan P.roposed Seemann began working at Schaffer Library in 1973 as bibiographer, responsible for collection development. She feels that her past experiences at Union will help her in her new position. Stated Seamann, \I'm very proud and pleased to be in this position. I couldn't ask for anything better in the way of colleagues-the Librarians and the staff in the library are first rate. I hope my experience of the campus and community will help me in this job.\ The advantage to an autemated system is that there will be more ways ef finding an item than in the traditional three way system (author, subject, title)· of the card catalegue. The new system will also have access through keywords. By LISA FOLEY When Union began its Five Year Plan outlining the gradual computerization of the academic and administrative branehes of the school, the college conducted business with the Digital Equipment Cor- poration. Digital Equipment Corporation, DEC, is the second largest computer corporation in the country; IBM is the largest. The plan, now in its third year, will consider DEC for Union's latest Computer proposal, CHUC II, to expand the Computer Humanities Undergraduate Curriculum. The new proposal, if negotiated between Union and DEC will include new equipment that will almost double the number of students and faculty able to use computer work-stations and extend the capabilities of the CHUC classroom. The program for the humanities division currently consists of fifteen student and eight faculty Professional 325 work-stations. Supervising the student stations are twelve student Teaching Assistants trained by Professor Baker, the project director. Under the CHUC II proposal CHUC would expand to twenty- seven student stations, eight faculty stations and two micro computers with four foot screens that operate as in- teractive blackboards. With the expansion of the program that the proposal outlines, the number of students· able to use CHUC would in- crease from approximately 150 students per trimester to 270 per trimester, the CHUC faculty usage would expand from eight to thirteen members. Ideally all of the work stations will be Rainbows, according to Baker. The advantages of Rainbows over the Professional 325s for the Humanities Curriculum are summarized in the proposal in three project outlines. These three projects reflect how the Rainbows would aid students enrolled in courses in Classics, History, Modern Languages, Philosophy, and writing classes. Important capabilities of the Rainbows are their capacity for color and graphics, the sophisticated word processing package,· the programs for languages, and their connection with the main VAX system. The VAX is also a product of DEC. The first project includes the increased capacity for maps and logic diagrams. According to Baker, maps are an essential part of a humanities curriculum for students studying history and classics. The maps, as outlined in the proposal, will begin with . Europe and the Middle East, centering on the Mediterranean basin. The proposal also indicates the necessity of color graphics to delineate territories. In a demonstration of the Rainbow, Baker pointed out that color graphics would also be useful to modern language students who could study grammar with the aid of different colors dif- ferentiating different parts of speech. For these reasons Professor Baker believes that at least one of the CHUC classrooms should. have color graphics capabilities. The second project concerns the computer's ability to help students with the translation of foreign languages. For this project the screen would be divided into three parts. The top screen would display the passage to be translated. The center portion would display a series of questions that would help the student break down the passage in smaller phrases. The resulting translation would appear on the bottom portion of the screen. Interactive Blackboard The third project is the in- teractive blackboard. This project, the CHUC faculty believes, \could replace or~ dinary blackboards in classes that have traditionally stressed classroom board exercises.\ The students could work on exercises in class and receive immediate feedback at their own desks and-<1r have their efforts projected on the large monitor and discussed in class. Another advantage outlined in the proposal presents the interactive blackboard as a means to discuss sensitive topics in the classroom. For example, students would be able to respond to a sensitive question about sexism or racism anonymously. In addition to the projects that · the CHUC faculty has planned for the Rainbows, the computer has inherent advantages. The Rainbow has a sophisticated word processing package that inr.ludes the capability of automatic left and right justification, automatic page breaks, highlighting with bold print, underlining, and foot- notes. Also, the Rainbow would ·be connected to the VAX which would enable students to get information and programs off Union's main computer system. Financially the proposal consists of three contributors. The Sloan Foundation will contribute $25,000 each year for two consecutive- years because it supports the college's effort to computerize the humanities curriculum. The Internal Education Fund, which receives its budget from student's tuition, will contribute approximately $50,000. These sums combined will provide the site renovation, faculty release time per year for two years, and operating expenses per year for two years, plus equipment. The equipment would include items such as desks, chairs and two large screens for the interactive blackboard. In the proposal, DEC would provide one VAX 11- 780 and nineteen Rainbows, if the proposal is negotiated between Union and DEC. DEC has agreed to give Union the computers because of the publicity the College's model Computer Humanities Undergradua.te Curriculum generates for the Company. For example, the college entertains three visitOPS weeldy who come to view the CHUC system. Next week, Baker will visit Drew and Professor Kaminsky will visit Wheaton to present the CHUC program to its Humanities Department. · Union also managed to generate. publicity that was published in the Wall Street Journal and Publicity can also be found in The Chronicle, which is read by many liberal arts college administrators throughout the nation. Give Blood.' February 14 & 15 in Carnegie It's A ·Heartwanning Experience. Each donor will receive a red & white 11 heartwarming\ scarf We Need Your Support She explained that there are going to be changes made at the library in the coming years in two major areas: space con- siderations and library automation. This summer, compact shelving Will be installed for the ' Two committees have been formed to guide this work: the Space Committee and the Library Automation Com- mittee. Seemann stressed that the entire carppus community will become involved in the library automation, stating, \None of this work is being done in a vacuum, this is a campus- wide effort, based on the Five Year Plan and there· will be SJ.lbstantial input from the users.\ Concluded Seemann, \our primary mission is to serve students and faculty members, we try to- promote our services campus-wide.\ Committees Pass ''H '' P ' I · our . rop~sa Continued from page 1 in. \I want people who will spend some time here, who will get involved.\ The Minerva Committee usually does not spend more than 400 dollars on any ,gvent. When the question came up ~of how does the campus community gather, he saw the Minerva Committee as the best group to come up with a solution. \' Because of his remarks, Professor Nichols was invited to serve on the committee and to draft a proposal. After modification, Ludwig and Professor · of Mechanical Engineering Gardner Ketchum brought it to the AAC. All of the specifics have not been worked out yet. It is unlikely that Minerva will organize and sponsor an event every week. Ludwig said he would like to see others come up with ideas and approach the committee for funding and help organizing. In particular, he hopes that students with specific interests will become involved by ,contacting the committee or on:e of its mem- bers. Examples of programs sponsored by Minerva recently are the Claude Lamberti talk on DeToqueville and the current \Chester A. Arthur Centennial Lecture Series on Politics.\ Says Maranville, \We have an academic community which should foster intellectual life which in turn enriches the academics. I think Minerva is a way of saying the life of the mind is important and doesn't end in the classroom.'' Maranville hopes that the new Convocation Hour will stimulate the community's intellectual curiousity and bring us just a bit closer to realizing that \commonality of in- terests.\ Because Professor Hugh Kenner was ill, he is., here on campus a week late as Visiting Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature. The start of his stay was moved to Monday, Feb. 11. He will be on campus for the two weeks Feb. 11-22. A schedule of classes that he will visit during the two weeks he is on campus is available in the English Department Office. HU212. His lecture, \James Joyce and t·he Printing Press,\ has been rescheduled for Thursday, Feb. 14 (Valentine's Day) at 8 p.m. in Social Sciences 016 (a reception will follow in Milano Lounge). Concordiensis regrets to announce the death of Chairman Emeritus of the Board· of Trustees of Union, Meade Brunet, Class of 1916. Brunet, a retired Vice President of RCA, died Sunday at the age of 90. p l:l ir Cl aJ pi s1 d H c~ Cl aJ ol u H at w m di p CE hi e1 ill PI PI (C bE CC in le re m m fr: us lee bi qu in I ad in1 th (C Ur Stl se: US• te1 ce mi tht po in thi pr1 13 se1 be1 le~ hu le~ Di (D wh ( me att1 CA La em the Cet tog vol En: un' clu of Pr( cla Jo:: fon Ser t sop anc

CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1985 Page3 ~- . Poet Joins Faculty By F~ED EISMAN To Visiting Associate Professor of English William Hathaway, education is of immeasurable importance. \I come out of a family of teachers and I regard teaching as the primary academic duty. I am strongly committed to un- dergraduate education, Hathaway said. This attitude is certainly evident in his ac• complishments before his arrival at Union. After receiving his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Montana, Hathaway continued his studies at the University of Iowa, where, in 1969, he earned his nnasters degree. Professor Hathaway has held a number of teaching positions on the college level, the most notable being a fourteen year stay at the Louisian~ State University (1970-1983). While at L.S.U.; Hathaway directed the Creative Writing Program, instituted a suc- cessful fund raising foundation, hosted a weekly radio program entitled \Writers' Voices,\ and initiated a visiting writers' program called ''A Gathering of Poets.\ In addition, he involved himself with many community and state affairs by giving workshops and poetry readings in local libraries, public schools, and literary clubs. It is hard to imagine why anyone who enjoyed so mu~h success and popularity would want to leave. Yet, when questioned on this matter, Hathaway easily provided the ·answers. He said, \L.S. U. has 28,000 students and was in Itself a little city. I like teaching on a personal level.\ He further cites the high crime rate and a disturbing amount of pollution as additional factors which influenced his decision to leave. After leaving Louisiana, Hathaway became Visiting Professor of English at Cornell University, where he again taught creative writing. After only one year, he left Cornell, calling it too impersonal, and came to Union to take a similar position. · Hathaway's current job represents his first at a ~all college, and he loves it. He calls Union an ideal place where he can teach on a personal level and finds that \Union students are intelligent, sincere and committed.\ Books Published Having already completed three books of poetry, Hathaway has a fourth due in April of this year entitled Fish, Flesh and Fowl. Besides writing poetry, Professor Hathaway enjoys spending time with his family, hunting, fishing, and traveling. Professor Williap1 Hathaway enjoys teaching students and believes anyone can learn how to write short stories and poems. He urges all those even remotely interested to register for his creative wtiting class spring tenn-he promises .a very interesting and im- forrnative course. Visitng Associate Professor of English William Hathaway explains what he likes about \U .\ Entry Link Aids Jobless If you're among the nation's 1.3 million graduates this year, a new sevice called EN- TRYLINK-USA Inc. could prove a simple and inexpensive solution to an age-old challenge : finding a job. Designed to supplement traditional hiring methods, EN'l'RYLINK provides a computerized database of qualified graduates to com- panies seeking entry level personnel. Using in-depth and unique graduate profiles, · a candidate's individual talents are matched directly With each employer's hiring needs. Graduates pay $35 to get their message out to prospective employers for an entire recruitment season, which ends September 15. Companies pay a nominal search fee for easy access to qualified leads for each available position. first-come, first-served sign-ups often shut.out qualified students from the limited number of on- campus interviews. In addition, unsolicited resumes rarely get attention, accounting for only ten percent of new hires. For companies, Jaffee noted, ''After spending all that time and thousands .of dollars on on- campus recruitment, the bot- tom line is they are seeing only a limited selection of can- didates.\ CAl Lessons Developed· ENTRYLINK expects to enroll 1,200 cross-industry companies this season. So far, over 28,000 entry level positions are open at companies using the service. Updated daily, the national database includes Exxon, Bankers Trust Com- pany, Dean Witter Reynolds, W.R. Grace & Co., and Bloomingdale's Inc. A major campaign to reach thousands of small and medium size com- panies from all industries is now underway. Companies which can't afford expensive on-campus visits or want to cover more geographic fround also find ENTRYIJNK an attractive way to compete for talent. By PETER MOHR Staff Computer Aided Instruction (CAl) has, as of recent years, been gradually installed at colleges across the nation, including Union. CAl refers to lessons which students can review on either independent microcomputers or on ter- minals connected to main- frames. These lessons are often used as corollaries to classroom lectures, containing a com- bination of text, review questions, and graphics. Since January 1983, Union has incorporated microcomputers, adapted as word processors, into its humanities curriculum through the CHUC project (Computerized Humanities Undergraduate Currl.culum). Approximately 150-171l students, who ha.ve enrolled in select humanities courses, have used these computers each term since. the program's in- ception. The 15 Pro 325 microcomputers, developed .by the Digital Equipment Cor- poration (DEC),· are all located in HU016. The people responsible for this program include ap- proximately 12 professors and 13 students. Since fall term, several of , the students hav-e been active in designing CAl lessons for a variety of humanities courses. These lessons are written in the Digital Authoring Language (DAL), a derivative of Pascal which was designed by Digital. On Februay 1 and 2, several members of the CHUC project attended a conference entitled CAUCO (Computer Assisted Language and Instruction Consortium) which was held at the Baltimore Conference Center. The conference brought together people who were in· volved ,.in developing CAl for English and foreign languages. Union's representatives in- cluded Professor Anton Warde of the · German department, Professor Mark Tober of the classics department and Joanna Mosher, technical in- formation analyst for Computer Services. Union also sent two sophomores, Steven Hartman and Angela Mercurio, who were selected 'because of their CAl work in languages. Hartman has developed lessons in Ger- man wbile Mercurio has worked on French programs. Approximately 100 people attended the conference .from both business and academia. The program consisted primarily of speeches and demonstrations of CAl work: Unfortunately, Union could not demonstrate any of its CAI lessons because they must be run on a VAX, which was not supplied by DEC. Most of the lessons developed at other colleges are written on floppy disks which are designed for . microcomputers. One of the conclusions drawn by Union's representatives is that the College is currently in a strop.g position in CAl when compared with many other universities. According to Warde, many of the programs developed at other schools are too simple for college level courses. Others are too monotonous; they consist solely of text, with no graphics. Although Union's current computer facilities would not be compatible with many of the lessons developed at other colleges (because they are on microcomputers), Warde does not feel that Union is missing anything. · In the area of machines for teaching languages, Warde feels that there is no substitute for a tape recorder which allows a student to hear, and not just read, a foreign tongue. According to Hartman and Mercurio, Union's CAl programs are more stinnulating than many of those which they saw at CAUCO. The CHUC project lessons provide a good balance between informative text and amusing graphics. Furthermore, Union's CAI work is developed on a VAX main- fl·ame which is more powerful than a microcomputer. \Union for a college of its size, is as progressive as any other institution in CAl,\ says Mercurio. She notes that Union's CAl lessons will be used for the right purpose:· to enhance a student's basic skills through computers . which are used as a part, but not as the sole component, of a college ·- curriculum. Some of the larger universities are using com- puters as the main teaching tool in several courses. Mercurio feels that this is not the purpose of CAl. Work in CAl has progressed slowly across the nation. According to Hartman, a primary reason for this gradual development is the cost of producing CAl lessons. Although the federal government has sponsored several CAI projects, most universities need more funds than they currently have in order to support CAl programs. CHUC is currently waiting for a second grant from DEC, in the form of computer discounts, as well as for further funding from the College. If this money is received, then the CHUC project will continue for another two years. Thus, more CAl lessons will be developed. Both Hartman and Mercurio hope to attend the conference next year. DEC has suggested that it may send a VAX to CALICO in 1986, which would allow Vnion's representatives to demonstrate some of their own CAl work. \We're trying to balance a supply and demand situation that's often very frustrating on both sides of the hiring line,\ explained Richard I. Jaffee, president of ENTRYLINK. \This system gives both job- hunters and companies the broadest exposure at a minimum effort and cost,\ he said. A recent graduate of the business school at Columbia University who began his career as a. management trainee at Citicorp in New York City, Jaffee, 27, launched ENTRYLINK after witnessing the \inefficiencies\ of the recruitment system. \Students and employers were missing each other-even on campuses with active placement offices,\ declared Jaffee. Speaking to students across the country, Jaffee discovered that highly-competitive lot. teries, bidding systems and Metropolitan Life is using ENTRYLINK to supplement its recruitment for those very reasons. \We're looking at it in terms of efficiency, convenience and expense control,\ said Crosby Engel, a staff consultant. \By screening candidates in ad- vance of on-campus visits,\ he said, \it should help eliminate mismatches.\ Unlike existing computerized job banks, ENTRYLINK specializes only in entry level jobs. This unique search method is being made available to students at 150 un- dergraduate and graduate schools coast to coast. · Because a student often has limited work experience, the ENTRYUNK candidate profile goes beyond a standard resume-job background, education and special skills. \We've personalized the process,\ Jaffee said. ENTRYLINK applications are available at college placement offices and from ENTRYLINK-USA Inc., P.O. Box 6339, New York NY 10128, or by calling (800) 642-9606. Union Receives Grants By DAVID GULLIVER According to President Morris, Uniop College has received three significant foundation grants totaling nearly half a million dollars to assist in facilities . im- provements. Union made a proposal. in August of 1984 to the Mobil Foundation of New York for funding for the new College Center. All financing for the College Center, .according to Dean Joseph Mammola, is from contributions and is not reflected in student tuition. · The foundation, a division of Mobil Oil Corporation, supports the area of media and com- munications, and their $100,000 contribution is intended for the proposed central meeting and media presentation facilities. Mr. Herbert Sclunertz, Vice President of Public Affairs of Mobil Oil Corporation, is a graduate of Union College. Dean of Engineering Edward J. Craig said, ''A computer science laboratory has been needed for years-a place where computer science m~jors can go and have the machines to themselves.\ The W.M. Keck Foundation of Los Angeles, California is making that goal easier with a $100,000 grant. The Keck Foundation grants are primarily in the areas of science, engineering and nnedical research, and most often directed to institutions in the western united States. Proposal Requests The proposal requested eight work stations, one laser printer, one pen plotter, one high-speed printer and eventually two more VAX 11-750 cpus. Until that time, the VAX 11·750 Tardis, currently in the Peschel Computer Center, will be moved to the lab facility. The college hopes to break ground in June of this year and reach completion before the beginning of the following school year. The Schaffer Library will be renovated this summer as well. The H.S. Schaffer Foundation of Schenectady has donated $267,400 for the installation of compact shelving. This shelving, according to Librarian Ann Seeman, will be used to expand the periodicals section. Photographers Needed Submit name and phone number toBox2577 u Cl >- .0 0 0 .c Q.

Page4 WeAre Proud To Announce The Winners Of The Union College Choi.r Raffle Alice Huthkiss $25 G·ift Certificate to Cranberry Bog Dennis Hoffman Lunch for Two at The VanDyck Judy DiMauro ·Food and Drinks at Garcia's and Sue Jasper Dinner for Two at Friendly's At The Rathskeller Tuesday February 19, 1985 Molson Night All students pre-senting a Union. College I.D. at the door will be eligible for door prizes. Saturday and Sunday From 12:00 to 2:00 p.m. come and have Brunch at the Rathskeller Dutch Hollow Rock-n-Roll Pizza PRESENTS This Week's Special Buy One Taco and Get a Second Taco Freel! Dutchmen's reservations will be taken on Tuesdays, Wed- nesdays and Thursdays from 4:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. ONLY! No Exceptions. CONCORDIENSIS, February /4, 1985 COLLEGE SPRING ·BREAK *TRIP D.ATES * March 2 - March 9 March 9 -March 16 MarCh 16- March 23 March 23- March 30 March 30 - Apnl 6 Aprrl 6 - April 13 BOOK EARLY! l11111ted Hotel Space 1n Ft Lnudeniale and Ooytona Bench TOUR RATE INCLUDES: • Round T 1'11-J Triln:;pol·tatlon Vl•l illl' ·Cflr10II.H.JI1f'd liiViltOry ~(jtllp>Jed rllUlOI'COilCh tO Oi!ytunil Beach nnd Ft • Ct JJ1V·t~I1H!rll Ot!pi.JI t lll'~ p, llllh _:_::_-:.=_::_ -=-----;- =\?\---:::::::.=:=- FLORIDA · s;ggoo PLUS $20 TAX & SERVICE: ROUND TRIP MOTORCOACH TRANSP'ORTATION 9 Days • 7 Nights FORT lAUDERDALE DAYfONA BEACH TRANSPORTATION: Round· trip transportation is available on our coaches. Motor· coaches depart from main bus terminal in major cities. Service is express making .qnly food stops. (-Departure times and. dates have been carefull.y planned to coincide with the check ·in time of the hotels. Coaches depart on Friday and arrive back the following Sunday. Departure dates are: Mar. 1 return Mar. 10, Mar. 8 return Mar, 17, Mar. 15return Mar. 24. Mar. 22 r-eturn Mar. 31, Mar. 29 return Apr. 7, Apr. 5 return Apr.l4. Coaches are the most modern and up·todate models with. reclining seats and are fully air conditioned and lavatory equipped·for your comfort. ~ctyve fou,, 252·02 Northern Boulevard • liHie Neck. New York 11363 New York City Long Island llB-631-3800 516-222-0155 Westchester 914·997-0140 New Jersey 201-623·4868 - .. yc bE ju re th th .pl di pE w so VE th bl th th cc hE re sc de: al W4 al se wl sa of u ra 'm ct or re pc m of al dE te cr m gc w ni B1 re a I hl al m th th th M ar M in re c thl yo· ve1 su SOl W1 un plE yo SOl tin la m so Fl V; \] ar b~ hE

Page4 WeAre Proud To Announce The Winners Of The Union College Choir Raffle Alice Huthkiss $25 Gift Certif kate to Cranberry Bog Dennis Hoffma·n Lunch for Two at The VanDyck Judy DiMauro Food and Drinks at Garcia's and Sue Jasper Dinner for Two at Friendly's At The Rathskeller Tuesday February 1 9, 1985 Molson Night All students presenting a Union College I. D. at the door will be eligible for door prizes. Saturday and Sunday From 12:00 to 2:00p.m. come and have Brunch at the Rathskeller Dutch Hollow Rock-n-Roll Pizza PRESENTS This Week's Special Buy One Taco and Get a Second Taco Free!! Dutchmen's reservations will be taken on Tuesdays, Wed- nesdays and Thursdays from 4:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. ONL Yl No Exceptions. CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1985 COLLEGE SPRING ·BREAK * TRIP DATES * March 2 - March 9 March 9 . Mr~rch 16 Mil,·ch 16 - Milrch ?:l Maret' ~'J Mdrch 3() M<l,·ch ~J[J · Apt tl 6 Apnl 6 April 13 BOOK EARLY! L 11111tP.d Hotel Spnce tn Ft l.;JudenliliP. nnd 0dyt.Dnd Rl~rlch TOUR RATE INCLUDES: 0 HcHHIU I ''P I' dll,,po,·tat,on v~.1 ·Ill\ r·~HH11fi!HtPd l.tv;Jtory l'flllipped IIIUti]I'C(Jdt:h lO O.tylUild flt!il('tl dllU F t • l :1 tllvt•rllt'r\f ()I'!J.Il I tll't• r ,, 111 11 ~~ -- -- - _____ .:. = FLORIDA sggoo PLUS $20 TAX & SERVICE ROUND TRIP MOTORCOACH TRANSPORTATION 9 Days • 7 Nights FORT lAUDERDALE DAYI'ONA BEACH TRANSPORTATION: Round tr1p tral1sportar,oc '' available on o~r coaches. Motor coaches depart from main b~s terminal m major c,,ties. Serv•ce •s express mak1AQ only food slops ( Departure t1mes and dates have been carefully planned to comc•de with !.he check •n t .• me of t·he hotels. Coaches depart on Friday and arrive back the following Sunday. Departure dates are. Mar. 1 return Mar. 10, Mar. 8 return Mar. 17, Mar 15 return Mar. 24, Mar 22 return Mar 31, Mar. 29 return Apr. 7. Apr. 5 return Apr 14. Coaches are the.most modern and up todate models with recli11mg seats and are fully a1r conditioned and lavatory equ,pped for your comfort. ~ ctyve four' 252-02 Northern Boulevard • ltltle Neck, New York 11363 New York City Long Island 718·631·3800 516·222-0155 Westchester 914·997·0140 New Jersey 201·623·4868 • • y b jl r' tl tl p d p v s' v tl b tl tl c h r S• d a VI a S• ~ s 0 l r n c 0 r p n 0 a d tl c n g \1 n E r a h a n tl tl tl 1\- a IV il fl th Y< Vt Sl sc w Ul pi Y< sc til h n St F v \ a b h

' VALENTINE'S DAY V Melanie is -the \perfect wife.\ . She is sweet and devotes herself to her husband. In doing this WOMEN however, she is conswned by her relationship and becomes a nonentity. Alone, she is weak 1 - and frail and· possesses few remarkable characteristics. c E By SUSAN SCHAEFER So it's Valentine's Day. Are you in love? No! Then you must be either hOping to fall in love, just .getting over a painful relationship or a loser-at least this is how our · society views things. Having a relationship is pushed upon us from all directions; our parents, our peers and especially the media. With ali of this pressure, finding someone to love has become vety competitive, so much so that many women will run blindly from one relationship to the next without ever giving themselves the time to first be comfortable with who they are. My freshman year, I plunged headfirst into a very intense relationship the second week of school. I began scheduling my day around my boyfriend. We always went out together and if we didn't I would be thinking about the next time I would be seeing him rather than enjoying what I was doing. Needless to say, I isolated myself .from a lot of people and activities. Looking back upon it, I was also rather shallow since I didn't 'make the effort or take the chance to find out what I wanted or enjoyed doing. Scarlett on the other hand could be described as a selfish willful woman--hardly the amiable mate. Scarlett is however a fighter and a survivor, struggling to stand on her own feet. She knows what she warrts and she is willing to rish anything for her goals. It is her passionate emotions and ability to really live that attracts us, and the men in the novel to her. Therefore, on this Valentine's Day, rather than rushing out to find a boyfriend to buy you that box of candy-stop a minute to learn about yourself and to fulfill some or your desires. He PageS FEATURES Barry Cohen draws the name o.f Rob Parento as the winner of the Campus Store Valentine's Day Sweetheart Drawing. Runners up were Howard Fiedler, David Ro.sen and :Jim LeBrou. Ma-ke~ A-Match By ALISON ABRAMS Has the winter term gotten you down? Are you sick and tired of spending those cold wintery nights all alone? Well, SDT has found the answer. Beginning on Monday February 11, the sorority Sigma Delta Tau will be sponsoring a computer dating service for Union's students. The project, • organi2;ed by SDT's philan- thropists Sue Singer and Amy Rosencrantz, will- benefit the National Organization for the Prevention of Child Abuse, SDT's chosen charitable organization. Absolutely anyone can par- ticipate-students, faculty, administration, single, at- tatched, girls, guys, affiliated, independent. By just entering have been of verses Writer. of the your name and filling out a questionnaire for one dollar, you are automatically placed in a raffle. Then on February 26th, at SOT's \Make a Match\ party in the Pub, you'll receive your five matches. There will be a cash bar and fantastic prizes to win-including 6 dinners, 4 lunches-at only the best restaurants in Schenectady, of course-wine, champagne, 2 free tickets to a Proctor's production, f;1nd probably anything else you c.an imagine. So, hey, if you've been looking for something to do with your time, come on up to Carnagie (beginning on Feb. 11), fill out few questions and maybe, just maybe you'll find your perfect match. The singles days are ov.er everybody!! Don't cuddle by yourself on the next cold blustery night! ! Who wants to snuggle up with an old stuffed teddy bear when one can have a real, life-size cozy com- panion?!?! Let's go- u 0 .>- .0 0 ... 0 .c. Q_ Presently I'm in another relationship, with orie im-- portant difference. There is a me which exists independently of my relationship. Rather than allowing my relationship to define me, I bring in my in- terests and desires to actively create my interaction. I pursue my own activities and can enjoy going out with my own friends without watching the door all night for my boyfriend to enter. Being a full person allows me to really give to my relationship and make it more satisfying. The most memorable heroines in romantic novels are also independent women. They may be passionately in love, but they also have a strong sense of their own worth. In Gone With the Wind, both Scarlett. and Melanie are in love with Ashely, and although he marries Melanie it is Scarlett's strong independent character that remains engraved in our minds. mencet~~~;==~=~==:~=:;:::==~==~~::~~==~;~~:=~~=~:~ the start Find your match-enter your name in SDT's dating service. It's guaranteed fun and who knows, you might just find exactly who you've been looking for all your life! ! the second mdtitl1t•·i1F<r(elti The exchange said to have Christian Rome tradition of young men the names of young from the love urn and them gifts. The tradition was recognize the beginning of the mating season and it occurred on Februarv 15, the Feast of '8le!ntilrtes Day holiday of poems, flowers candy hearts. is trimmed with lace and red hearts and re,licas of cupid. But underlying all of this is the expression of love from in- dividual to individual. • Sweethearts and Chocolates • By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff Of course you didn't forget that today is Valentine's DaY-- you're just waiting until the very last minute to spring your surprise on that ''special \ R' ht? someone . . . 1g . . . . Wrong? Well, it's never too late ... it's still Valentine's Day until12 p.m. and that gives you plenty of time (regardless of your monetary status) to whip something up for your Valen- tine. Flowers are always a great last minute gift and if you missed the flower sale spon- sored by Circle K, try Buning Florist on Union Street. Their Valentine's Day .special, the \Love You\ bouquet, is a lovely arrangement of daisies and baby::;breath complete. with a heart and bow for $8.50. Roses are another great option, or choose something different as most florists have a wide array of flowers on hand for the oc- casion. Just as flowers can win a girl's heart-the way to a man's heart can be through his stomach. If you have cooking facilities available, bake a batch of cookies (even the Slice and Bake kind will be ap- preciated) or share a Ben and Jerry's ice cream cake. Their specials for Valentine's Day are heart-shaped ice cream cakes with alternating layers of ice cream and brownies (or chocolate chip cookies). The smaller one ($8.95) ~llegedly serves ~ people (although 2 hungry people could eat it easily) and . the larger one ($14.95) serves 10-12 ~ople. If you Cllil 't eat an entife cake, · Ben and Jerry's has a large supply of strawberry and raspberry ice cream on hand for sundaes and cones. After eating aU that ice cream you might be· thirsty, so stop in at Englehardt's Liquor Mart which is also on Union Street. You can't afford a bottle of Dom Perignon? It's O.K. You can choose from their vast selection of champagnes and wines. While you are there, take note of the Valentine's Day decoration created by Mr. Englehardt. He .has captured the spirit of the holiday by skQlfully decorating a wicker chair with Valentine's Day hearts and spirits. The Union College Bookstore also has captured \the Valen- tine's Day spirit and has lots of little .gifts in stock, some of which include: Valentine's Day mugs ($3.75), satin hearts ($1.98), stuffed bears with the logo ''this bear loves you\ ($5.95) and purple satin mice and dogs ($7.95). They also had a large selection of cards which mostly have been bought and sent . to boyfriends and girlfriends \at home\ but there are still some left including giant Valentines for $2.50 which have plenty of room for a long message. If you're really low on money, there's nothing nicer than a home-made Valentine. All it takes is paper, glue, scissors, crayons and a little imagination. If you don't have any imagination but do have a good voice, try serenading your Valentine, or write a poem. If nothing else, your Valentine might get a good laugh. None of these ideas express exactly how you feel about your Valentine? Well, all I can suggest is a hug and a kiss. Try it, It's almost certain that your gift will be returned. Computer ... Dating By DAVID FITZGERALD · Features Editor Valentine's Day is the day set aside each year to tell some special person you know that you care for them. If, on this day, you do not have somebody that is special to you, it y be time that you c · red a . dating rvice mebody for you. In 1 District dating . Each t and than

VALENTINE'S DAY V Melanie is -the \perfect wife.\ She is sweet and devotes herself to her lmsband. In doing this WOM , EN however, sh~ is consumed by · · her relationship and becomes a nonentity. Alone, she is weak I and frail and possesses few remarkable characteristics. c E By SUSAN SCHAEFER So it's Valentine's Day. Are you in love? No! Then you must be either hoping to faU in love, just getting over a painful relationship or a loser--at least this is how our society views things. Having a relationship is pushed upon us from all directions; our parents, our peers aRd especially the media. With all of this pressure, f1nding someone to love has become very competitive, so much so that many women will run blindly from one relationship to the next without ever giving themselves the time to f1rst be comfortable with who they are. Scarlett on the other hand could be described as a selfish willful woman--hardly the amiable mate. Scarlett is however a fighter and a survivor, struggliFlg to stand on her own feet. She knows what she waitts and she is willing to rish anything for her goals. It is her passionate emotions and abHity to really Hve that attracts us, and the men in the novel to her. Therefore, on this Valentine's Day, ratfier thalil rushing out to find a boyfriend to buy you that box of candy-stop a minute to learn about yourself and to fulfill some or your desires. PageS FEATURES Barry Cohen draws the name of Rob Parento as the winfler of the Campus Store Valentine's Day Sweetheart Drawing. Runners up were Howard Fied:ler, David Rosen and Jim LeBrou. Make-A-Match By ALISON ABRAMS Has the winter term gotten you down? Are you sick and tired of spending those cold wintery nights all alone? Well, SDT has found the answer. Beginning on Monday February 11, the sorority Sigma Delta Tau will be sponsoring a computer dating service for Union's students. The project, organized by SDT's philan- thropists Sue Singer and Amy Rosencrantz, will benefit the National Organization for the Prevention of Child Abuse, SDT's chosen charitable organization. Absolutely anyone can par- ticipate-students, faculty, administration, single, at- tatched, girls, guys, affiliated, independent. By just entering your name and filling out a My freshman year, I plunged headfirst into a very intense relationship the secoRd week of school. I began scheduling my day around my boyfriend. We always went out together and if we didn't I would be thiHking about the next time I would be seeing him rather than enjoying what I was doing. Needless to say, I isolated myself from a lot of people and activities. Looking back upon it, I was also rather shallow since I didn't make the effort or take the chance to find out what I wanted or enjoyed doing. Presently I'm in another relationship, with one im- portant difference. There is a me which exists independently of my relationship. Rather than allowing my relationship to define me, I bring in my in- terests and desires to actively create my interaction. I pursue my own activities and can enjoy going out with my own friends without watching the door all Hight for my boyfriend to enter. Being a full person allows me to really give to my relationship and make it more satisfying. Heart&. • • questionnaire for one dollar, you are automatically placed in a raffle. Then on February 26th, at SOT's \Make a Match\ party in the Pub, you'll receive your five matches. There will be a cash bar and fantastic prizes to win-including 6 dinners, 4 lunches-at only the best restaurants in Schenectady, of course-wine, champagne, 2 free tickets to a Proctor's production, and probably anything else you can imagine. So, hey, if you've been looking for something to do with your time, come on up to Carnagie (beginning on Feb. 11), fill out few questions and maybe, just maybe you'll find your perfect match. The singles days are over everybody!! Don't cuddle by yourself on the next cold blustery night! ! Who wants to snuggle up with an old stuffed teddy bear when one can have a real, life-size cozy com- panion?!?! Let's go- The most memorable heroines in romantic novels are also independent women. They may be passionately in love, but they also have a strong sense of their own worth. In Gone With the Wind, both Scarlett and Melanie are in love with Ashely, and although he marries Melanie it is Scarlett's strong independent character that remains engraved in our minds. By BETSYTRElTLER Features Editor Hearts are -travelling far and wide as young and old take time to express their feelings of love and respect to loved ones. The custom of sending valentines tO. special friends and relatives is rooted in the old English and French belief that birds com· mence their mating season at the start of the second half of the second month of each year. The exchange of sentiments is said to have originated in pre- Christian Rome with the tradition of young men drawing the names of young women from the love urn and giving them gifts. The tradition was to recognize the beginning of the mating season and it occurred on Februarv 15, the Feast of Lupercalia. The Church realized people upheld the tradition and in an attempt to reinforce Church Doctrine, changed the day of the tradition to February 14-The Feast of St. Valentine. The Feast of St. Valentine commemorated the suffering of martyrdom of St. Valentine. It is speculated there may have been two Saints by this name but their stories are rather similar, hence there is un-- certainty. The primary dif- ference in the accounts is that one is said to have been a Roman Priest and martyr during the persecution of Emperor Claudius. The other supposedly was a bishop of Interamna. The original Valentines card . was printed in the 16th century and is believed to have been extracted from a book of verses entitled A Valentine Writer. Artists armmd the turn of the 19th century, such as Francesco Bartolozzi printed copperplate valentines and later artists created valentine woodcuts and lithographs. Postage and en- velopes were introduced in England in 184{) thereby in- creasing the flow of intricately ·designed Valentines often made of lace. Today, Valentines Day is a commercial holiday of sending cards, poems, flowers and even candy hearts. Everything is trimmed with white lace and red hearts and little re,licas of cupid. But underlying all of this is the expression of love from in- dividual to individual. • Sweethearts and Chocolates • By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Staff Of course you didn't forget that today is Valentine's Day- you're just waiting until the very last minute to spring your surprise on that \special someone\ . . . Right? . . . Wrong? Well, it's never too late . . . it's still Valentine's Day until 12 p.m. and that gives you plenty of time (regardless of your monetary status) to whip something up for your Valen- tine. Flowers are always a great last minute gift and if you missed the flower sale spon- sored by Circle K, try Buning Florist on Union Street. Their Valentine's Day special, the \Love You\ bouquet, is a lovely arrangement of daisies and babysbreath complete with a heart and bow for $8.50. Roses are another great option, or choose something different as most florists have a wide array of flowers on hand for the oc- casion. Just as flowers can win a girl's heart-the way to a man's heart can be through his stomach. If you have cooking facilities available, bake a batch of cookies (even the Slice and Bake kind will be ap- preciated) or share a Ben and Jerry's ice cream cake. Their specials for Valentine's Day are heart-shaped ice cream cakes with alternating layers of ice cream and brownies (or chocolate chip cookies). The smaller one ($8.95) allegedly serves 4~ people (although 2 hungry people could eat it easily) and the larger one ($14.95) serves 10-12 people. If you can't eat an entire cake, Ben and Jerry's has a large supply of strawberry and raspberry ice cream on hand for sundaes and cones. After eating all that ice cream you might be thirsty, so stop in at Englehardt's Liquor Mart which is also on Union Street. You can't afford a bottle of Dom Perignon? It's O.K. You can choose from their vast selection of champagnes and wines. While you are there, take note of the Valentine's Day decoration created by Mr. Englehardt. He has captured the spirit of the holiday by skillfully decorating a wicker chair with Valentine's Day hearts and spirits. The Union College Bookstore also has captured the Valen- tine's Day spirit and has lots of little gifts in stock, some of which include: Valentine's Day mugs ( $3.75), satin hearts ($1.98), stuffed bears with the logo \this bear loves you\ ($5.95) and purple satin mice and dogs ($7 .95). They also had a large selection of cards which mostly have been bought and sent to boyfriends and girlfriends \at home\ but there are still some left including giant Valentines for $2.50 which have plenty of room for a long message. If you're really low on money, there's nothing nicer than a home-made Valentine. All it takes is paper, glue, scissors, crayons and a little imagination. If you don't have any imagination but do have a good voice, try serenading your Valentine, or write a poem. If nothing else, your Valentine might get a good laugh. None of these ideas express exactly how you feel about your Valentine? Well, all I can suggest is a hug and a kiss. Try it, It's almost certain that your gift will be returned. Find your match-enter your name in SOT's dating service. It's guaranteed fun and who knows, you might just find exactly who you've been looking for all your life!! Computer •.• Dating By DAVID FITZGERALD Features Editor Valentine's Day is the day set aside each year to tell some special person you know that you care for them. If, on this day, you do not have somebody that is special to you, it . ~Y be time that you c · red a . dating rvice t me body for you. In t District ,, dating ., . Each i and u than v 0 >. _c 0 - 0 J:: 0...

Page6 CONCORDIENS/S, February 14, 1985 FEATURES == Dean F einsot . . . Bids Union Farewell By MAUREEN COLEMAN Staff Aaron Feinsot, now in hiS tenth year as Dean of Graduate and Professional Studies, will leave Union March ll to become the Dean of Graduate and Professional Studies at The Polytechnical Institute of New York, in New York City. Already, half of his office in Wells House is packed into boxes, and Feinsot explains that he is really \just moving back home\ as he has been traveling to see his family in New York every weekend.· His new position will be the same as his present one, except it is at a larger institute which is a technological university, not a liberal arts college. Feinsot remarks, \I guess I've just made a profession of deanship.'' Dean Feinsot does not leave the college without regrets, however, \I leave a lot of friends here,\ and he describes himself as \very identified with Union.\ Feinsot graduated from Union in 1945 and returned thirty years later to work, first as a consultant and, eventually, as a dean. He also had two sons graduate from Union, Dave in 1980 and John in 1982. His daughter Lauren is currently a senior at Brown University. While describing his overall experience at Union as \very pleasurable,\ Feinsot notes that \it has been a totally dif- ferent experience working than as a student.\ Although the f!ollege conslsted of 800 men~ and \it was mote like a seminary,\ he· has found that many aspects of the college have remained fundamentally the same. Despite its growth, Union is still a small college, and Feinsot believes the quality of the faculty has remained the same over the years. \If you want to take advantage of the opportunities available, Union can provide a terrific education.\ Feinsot recalls 5hooftit9 ~!q7 h-e wi// C/tCJCSL. involvement with the Glee Club and Mountebanks and relationships with professors as some of his best experiences as a Union student. As Dean of Graduate and Continuing Studies, Feinsot has worked to develop what he c<Uls \the nontraditional part of the college,\ or everything other than the 2,000 resident un- dergraduate students. This includes all graduate and part- time undergraduate students, an non-credit courses, short courses for engineers and science majors, and courses for the community (involving all age groups from young children to retired people). The students involved in these programs nearly double the size of the college, although there is little association between the \traditional\ and the ''non- traditional\ parts of the college. Few people realize that Union College has branches in Poughkeepsie, Kingston, and Pittsfield, MA, all of which fall under Feinsot's deanship. Feinsot has been dean of what is \essentially a different college\ and he must act as dean of students for a group with entirely different motivations and different problems than the typical un- dergraduates. Feinsot is proud of his achievements in the ten years he has worked at Union. He believes, \we've expanded our programs without changing the character of the traditional college.\ During this time; the departinerit has devel()ped ~i' greater outreach of the college to the community and has in- tegrated the non-traditional into the basic part of the college. They have also established an alumni scholarship program, including the two free graduate courses to encourage continuing studies, and have developed course programs for all ages. In addition, the department has developed a program for a Masters degree in Computer Science in which Vassar College provides the B.A. and Union provides the Masters degree. Similar programs continue with Albany Med and Albany Law. All in all, Feinsot has found his experience at Union \professionally fulfilling\ and considers Union \a v~ry warm community.\ As the college searches for a new Dean of Graduate and Continuing Studies, hoping to fill. the position by July first, Feinsot feels he will miss Union: ''I'll always remain a part of Union .. . or a son of Union.\ Aaron Feinsot, Dean of Graduate and Continuing Studies ''No Sexual Deviants ... '' Continued from page 5 used liberally. No company I talked with described any of their clients as .being losers, anti-social, or sexual deviants. One company claims over 2, 700 members, all of which are active, successful, and too busy for bars. IRC Attends When it comes down to the final decision to what kind of dating service is for you, it truly is a personal decision. If you put faith in computers and their ability to choose a prospective mate, computer services are available. If you like the per- sonal touch and dislike the thought of blind dates, a video dating service is also available in the area. So if you are lonely, busy, successful, have had trouble meeting the right person, and bars are not the place for you, it may be time for you to try a d~ting service. Nuke Strategy Seminar By ERIC COOK . Last Sunday three members of the Union College Inter- national \ Relations ,Club YeturriM· _from ·a )four:.:\dfl.y seminar at Mount · HOlyoke College in South Hadley, Massachusetts, and did we have fun! The seminar, entitled \The Global Politics of Nuclear Strategy\ was run and con- ducted by Mt. Holyoke students. The participants carne from more than 25 colleges and universities from all over the eastern United States. Delegates came from as far away as North Carolina, and as close to Mt. Holyoke as UMASS at Amherst. The Union delegation consisted of Eric Cook, Jody Israel, and Todd Dimmick. We arrived Thursday night in time to hear the first keynote speaker and catch the post- speaker reception. (PARTY) On Friday, after a. continental breakfast (muffins), we broke up into our individual workships. In these workshops the delegates attempted to achieve \a greater con- sciousness of the breadth and the depth of the problems and prospects posed by the East- West balance of terror for North-South relations.'' In essence we enhanced our un- derstanding of how East-West competitions affect the • developing and under- developed countries. Workshops continued until Sunday morning, interspersed with panel discussions, debates, and more speakers. The con- ference was topped off with a banquet Sunday afternoon where spokesmen frorp. each workshop presented· \ their findings. · We found no answers to the problems plaguing our world, but we learned from other people's experiences, and had a lot of fun, too. The next event that the IRC will be participating in will be the National Model United Nations from April 2-7. Union will be representing Ireland, and there are still spots open. If you would like to participate give me a call at X6977. Cf) Umtf\ ~o- ray; wyf ~WN{aya' cfoiu' 7 r . /l r..W: ~~ .J ) {{~~~

it a r l, r a .., -' e :l 1 ,, f CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1985 Page7 THE ARTs· Pub Hires Character By JOY RUNYON Staff A truly good comedian is hard to find, a rarity to be savored by those who are fortunate enough to catch his act. The good comedian combines wit, un• derstanding of human nature and its quirks, good delivery, rapport with the audience, and originality. But how are we to know a good comedian from a bad one· if we never see a bad comedian? Compared to maglcl~p­ comedian-ventriloquist (all terms which this writer applies very loosely). Paul Carroll, who appeared last ThUrsday night at the Dutch Hollow Pub, any comedian is a jewel. Carroll disclosed to us the meaning of a truly disgusting, vulgar, nauseating, revolting, and generally B-A-D performer. The best part of his act was when he got off the stage. Carroll was profoundly deficient in every aspect of a good performer. His. opening bit was what he called \magic.\ All of us have heard those ad- vertisements on televiston touting ''this rare diamondelle cocktail ring with genuine imitation chrome-finish plastic band, for only nine-ninety five plus shipping and handling\; imagine listening to that voice for nearly an hour. That was Carroll. His bag of magic tricks was also comparable to those beginners' kits advertised ''by Ronco!\ on only the most selective channels. You remember the tricks: watching_ in awe as the magician made a handkerchief disappear in his hand, or showed you a rope once cut to pieces put back together by \magic.\ These are tricks which all of us have seen at least 38 times in their life, and which hold no magical mystery for anyone but a three-year-old seeing them for the first time. Boring, boring, boring!!! (Yawn) \Relief from the drudgery\ Finally, some relief {rom the drudgery ... or so we thought, as Carroll packed away his dime-store magic tricks. But the fun wasn't over yet. Unfortunately, Carroll did not leave the stage. The word \originality'' obviously has no meaning for Carroll, as he . shamelessly and relentlessly stole and butchered other comedians' acts for this session. This writer caught him many times with his hand in the proverbial cookiE) jar fiHed with others' material. Some jokes still had their original writers' copyrights' freshly stamped all over them; others were so old that no one could even begin to .fathom who wrote or first told them. Many of us in the un- fortunate captive audience of a Whopping 30 people simply looked on in disbelief at his deficiencies as a comedian and, yes, as a human being. And your grandmother thinks Eddie Murphy is vulgar and tasteless? Carroll makes Murphy look like Jerry Falwell. The jokes themselves ranged from, \My daytime job is selling doughnuts to midgets .for toilet seats,\ to, \What do you call a prostitute with a chipped tooth? An organ grinder,\ to those for which the FCC would arrest Concordy if we were to print them. In his repertoire, we were exposed to jokes noticeably stolen from Michael Davis, Sophie Tucker, and Harry Anderson. Even if Carroll had possessed the in- tegrity of these performers, his ·delivery would have still been less than decent. But Carroll didn't even have integrity. He spewed out~oke after joke at the expense of individual female (of course) audience members' hwnility. His intention of being funny was lost in his malice (which probably stems from plenty of well-deserved rejection on the singles' bar scene). The last portion of his sordid act consisted of his attempt at ventriloquism: His dummies moved their lips less than he did in giving them thier voices. He had three dummies: The first was a very shoddy one named Jerry O'Brien. Jerry was, per Carroll's style, vulgar, crude, and offensive. He pointed out attractive women in the audience and made off-color. american ~ollegiate ~orts £intbologp ~~ International Publications is sponsoring a .11ational &!ollege ~ortt!' ~ontrst -- Spring Concoura 1985 ~- open to all college and univenity students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. CASH PRIZES will go to the top fiva poems: $100 $50 $25 $}5 Fourth First Place SecoJLd PI ace Third .Place $10 Fifth AWARDS of free printing for All accepted manuscripts in our popular, handsomely bound and copyrighted anthology, AMERICAN COLLEGIATE POETS. , Deadline: March 31 CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS: 1. Any student is eligible to submit his or her verse. 2. All entries must be original and unpublished. 3. All entries must be typed, double·spaced, on one side of the page only. Each poem must be on a separate sheet and must bear, in the upper left· hand c(!rner, the NAME and ADDRESS of the student as well as the COLLEGE attended, Put name and address on envelope also! 4. There are ·~o restrictions on form or theme. length of poems up to fourteen lines. Each poem must have a .separate title. (Avoid \Untitled\!) Small black and white illustrations welcome. 5. The judges' decision will be final. No info by phone! 6. Entrants should keep a copy of all entries as they cannot be returned. Prize winners and all authors awarded free. publication will be notif}IKI immediately after deadline. J.P. will retain first publication ridJts for accepted poems. Foreign language poems welcome. 7. There is an initial one'dollar registration fee for the first entry and a fee of fifty cents for each additional.poem. It is requested to submit no more than ten ,poems per entrant. B. All entries must be postmarked not later than the above deadline and fees be paid. cash. check or money order. to: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS P. 0. Box 44044· l los Angeles, CA 90044 chauvenistic remarks about them. · The second dummy (aside from Carroll himself) was a promiscuous female beast named Ms. Zsu-zsu. It ,is believed that she was the personification of a woman Carroll would like to find for relief ·Of his sexual frustrations. (But what he does in private with his dummies is his business.) When Carroll asked her if she smoked after sex, she predictably replied, \I don't know; I never looked.\ She also made use of the late .Sophie Tucker's material, slaughtering its humor in a way no one else but an accomplice of Carroll's could. The third dlllllmy was a penguin by the name of Admiral Bird (ha ... ha ... ha . . . sort of). For a penguin, Bird had a sex drive that lent him to some profuse bestiality for Carroll's sake. No more said on the subject. ''Unoriginal and Offensive\ Who knows why Carroll came to Union? The next question is a desperate one, \Why me?\ Carroll is a waste of scrambled genetic material and a joke within himself. He was unoriginal, vulgar, offensive, malicious, and the poorest excuse for a performer this writer has ever seen. Perhaps it'snottoo late for him to get his money-back guarantee for his magic set from Ronco. u 0 ::.. .c e 0 s:: a. comedian magician Paul Carroll appeared at the Pub last Thur-. sday night. Wineapple Gives Talk By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor·in.Cbief On Thursday, February 7, Brenda Wineapple, associate professor of English, lectured on the image of women in a talk entitled \Making Spectacles of Themselves: Women and Film.\ This discussion, at 12: 30 p.m. in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall, began a four part film series sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status of Women and the Women's Network. .. For four consecutive Thur- sday evenings at 9 p.m. in SS016, films depicting women in four different decades are to be shown. The first film in that series, \All About Eve,\ was held last Thursday evening. Tonight, February ,14, \Some Like it Hot\ will be shown. \Klute\ can be viewed on February 21, and \Looking For Mr. Goodbar,\ on February 28, will complete the segment. The films are free and open to the public. Before a crowd of some 70 iQterested male and female faculty members, staff per- sonnel, and students, Wineapple began her talk on feminist film criticism with a reference to \Loooking For Mr. Goodbar:\ \It portrays an independent woman who is proud of her independence, of her sexuality, and so forth.\ Wineapple then introduced the term of \iden- tification\ whereby one iden- tifies with the character on the screen. Wineapple then discussed some assumptions about the early development of the female-male roles in cinema: \Early cinema started by rendering characters almost ... larger than life and letting us know what their characters were like . . . because of their attitudes, behaviors, costumes . · . . their large gestures. What then is argued is that the male character in film, the male image, became more dif- ferentiated, more complex . . . than the woman who still stayed in these closed roles.\ The problem here is that \Hollywood doesn't give us (women) very many roles and moreover after we have them, what do we do with them?\ Another problem is · that by harping on these female stereogypical images, \we're perpetuating them, we're almost giving them a kind of credibility by assuming that they're there all the time.\ Therefore, continued Wineapple, \what we have in this case is a very simplistic or perhaps reductive notion of what the image of woman is in film. Hollywood has an in- vestment in making things seem naturalistic because we recognize, we identify, we buy our tickets, we go, we see new worlds\ in the movies. But this \journalistic point of view\ is an image on tl).e screen that is constructed for the viewer. \This realistic or naturalistic image is a function of many choices made along the way,\ said Wineapple, \so that what you get seems real, but it's not.\ What feminist criticism then · called for \was a way of looking at these images that did not blur the distinction between live experience ... and what we see on the screen,'' said Wineapple. When in a darkened theatre, the audience is put in the position of being a voyeur \because you see much go on that you are not able to accept or touch or reach out,\ said Wineapple. Therefore, \structures of identification we begin to form become very interesting.\ The audience's look or gaze, which has been structured by the camera's eye, is related to how the viewer identifies with the film. This perception varies as to whether the viewer is male or female. This idea is referred to as \demarcated sexual dif- ferences.\ \Primarily we're used to seeing men look at women\ in. film, said Wineapple. \We're also made to identify with the male gaze, the man looking at the woman.\ Thus, the viewer looks as if he or she is the male protagonist; the camera is linked up with the male's gaze in many cases. When the female on the screen steps out of this role, then she is punished such as in \Network.\ \The important thing to remember . . . is the woman that you see on the screen making a spectacle of herself .. . or more accurately who is made a spectacle of is not a real woman at all· ... is not meant to be a real woman,\ noted Wineapple. What the audience is led to see on the screen is a \highly sexualized image of a woman . . . through closeups, make-up, lighting, and so forth.\ In the films of the 1940s, the female was often portrayed as being evil as in ''Double Indemnity,\ but in the 1960s and 1970s this is not the case. \Women now have earned the right to be both good and sexual hence you're going to get things like \Klute\ and \Looking For Mr. Goodbar.\ Although in \Klute\ there is an \underlying hostility toward female sexuality,\ said Wineapple. However, Hollywood film today is the same as it has been. Motion pictures now \look different because ambiguity has been folded within them. And ambiguity is very nice because ambiguity ultimately suggest nothing really changes, but we can make more people happy,\ said Wineapple. Therefore, \the task of feminist criticism,\ continued Wineapple, \is to . . . read against the grain: in other words to become aware of what is there.\

Page8 CONCORDIBNSIS, February 14, 1985 THE ARTS Philadelphia cop Harrison Ford observes young Lukas Haas as the yoi:Jngster tries .to identify a murder suspect at a police line-up in Paramount Pictures' \Witness.\ T·he movie is now playing at Crossgates Cinema nNorthway Mall Cine 1-8, and Towne land 2 in Latham. ••witness'' is A Success By GAYLE ROSENFELD Edito~in..Chief Harrison Ford has starred as the invincible Han Solo and Indiana Jones in five of the largest grossing motion pic- tures of all time, yet he takes a departure from those two roles in Australian director Peter Weir's \Witness\. As a dedicated Philadelphia homicide cop, Ford (John Book) proves that he is truly one of a handful of the best leading men in Hollywood today. In \Witness\ he still displays the characteristics that have made him a star--wise- cracking, ~charismatic, an4 lovable-yet he adds a depth of to his portrayal of John Book that goes beyond some of his earlier roles; here he is a man who must, for a time, depart from his twentieth centuryl lifestyle for the eighteenth! century, station. Again, Samuel is able to witness an aspect of urban life. Weir takes a different ap- proach with Book's, thus, Rachel Lapp's indoctrinization into these two separate worlds. Book learns about the Amish environment by living within it while Lapp experiences the twentieth century through Book's manners. Weir's whole approach here is both fascinating and effective. 'The differences between both lifestyles is emphasized throughout the film. This point is .stressed in one scene where local youths harrass Hochleiter yet no one fights back. The viewer sees Book grow angry over the matter and then rise from his seat. However, Book is caught by Eli Lapp (Jan Rubes), the father of Rachel's deceased husband. Lapp warns that violence \is not out way.\ Book retorts, \But it's my way.\ Once again the clash of two worlds is demonstrated. cultures is extremely well executed. The picture's filming, entirely on location in Philadelphia and Lancaster County, P~nna sylvania, not only added millions of dollars to that state's economy, but brought the splendor and yet simplicity of the Amish countryside to the film. \Witness\ is a beautiful film to watch for most of its acting, its scenery and its marvelous directing._ . \Witness\ was directed by Peter Weir, produced by Edward S. Feldman with a screenplay by Earl W. Wallace and a story by William Kelley and Pamela Wallace and Earl W. Wallace. The music was composed by Maurice Jarre and starred Harrison Ford, Kelly McGillis, and Alexander Godunov. \Witness\ is a Paramount Picture, rated R, and is now playing at Cinema 12, Crossgates Mall; Cinema 1-8, Northway Mall; and the Towne 1 and 2, Latham. r·wo Gre.at Acts By LINDA RAFFAELE Arts Editor I was first introduced to Cabaret during my freshman orientation last year. I thought it was the greatest thing. That first time I went there were two terrific acts, lots of joking and laughter, and plenty of rowdy, cheering people around me. I went a few times after that, ;;~nd although the talent was stm in large supply, the popularity of Cabaret seemed to have dwindled. I. read a couple of articles in the paper heralding the talent displayed at Cabaret but scolding the campus for its apathetic attendance record. It was quite a shame. Due to sparce student inte'rest, Cabaret seemed destined to soon become a thing of the past. But this term, as I'm sure you have by now heard, Cabaret is making a triumphant comeback. Last Thursday night's performances, which featured the Court Gestures in the first act and Brian Laux and Kenny Morr in the second, were both well-attended. All who attended were treated to some fine entertainment. First up were the Court Gestures-Dan Brotman, Bill Carey, Mary Carroll, Debbie Gollin, Nancy Greenhaus, and Tim Lowry. The Court Gestures are a student comedy troupe who specialize in improvisation, and they were in top form on Thursday night. They opened up with a take- off on \Name That Tune\ called \Name That Noise.\ Mary Carroll was especially good in this skit as the typically nervous and over-zealous game show contestant. From here, the Court Gestures took off to poke fun at everything from Dr. Ruth Westheimer to the food at West College. Their method of im- provisation is unusual and a lot of fun to watch. A couple of them will go as far as they can with a particular skit, and when it seems to be corning to a logical close, another member of the troupe will yell \freeze\ and come on stage to take the skit off in another direction. · One of the most successful skits involved Debbie Gollin and Bill Carey as two stri'!ngers. sitting next to each other on a bus. The skit explored the range of emotions that the two ex. perienced while getting to know each other. Dan Brotman and Tim Lowry took turns calling out different emotional states (such as frustrated; obnoxious, horny and psychotic). Debbie and Bill then played out the emotion. The result was hilarious and evoked a great response from the audience. After a short intermission, senior Brian Laux and his friend, Kenny Morr (who at- tends New York Tech) took over the stage. Their act, in which both sang while Kenny played the guitar, was much mellower than the Court Gestures, but just as entertaining. The two performed a lot of original compositions, some of which were based on true-life stories. The highlight of the act came when the audience was asked to sing along. The crowd was very \up\ and --responded well to requests to join in on \Feelin' Groovy\ and \Cats in the Cradle\. Freshman Mark Webster performed the duties of Master of Ceremonies for the night. He opeQed the show by asking the audience to join him in a round of Row, Row, Row Your Boat. The singing got the audience psyched up for the rest of the show. Mark also told some jokes and even convinced Franklin Schneider to· get up on stage to tell one. He handed the show over to the Court Gestures .after doing an impromptu duet with sophomore Liza Seitel of \Poisoning Pigeons in the Park\. . For all of those who attended, the show was a lot of fun. It was good to see a large turnout again. Cabaret is the type of entertainment that needs a large and rowdy audience to make it really complete. Here's to all those who helped make Thursday night a success. And to Cabaret-long may it live! In \Witness an eight-year- old Amish boy named Sainuel Lapp witnesses the murder of a policeman in a Philadelphia train station. Harrison Ford, the cop assigned to the case, soon learns that the murderers are other Philadelphia policeman trying to cover up corruption within the force. The score for \Witness\, cornP.psed by Maurice J arre, takes on an uneasy quality; it creates a feeling of restlessness and alienation which supports the tone of the relationship between Book and Rachel Lapp. There is one memorable scene in the film where the music departs from this norm; Book is repairing his car with I:,app when suddenly his car radio starts broadcasting. Sam Coake's \What A Wonderful World\ is playing which brings back memories for Book. He takes Lapp and teaches her how to dance. This is one of the most romantic scenes in film today which shows Weir's ability to show passion without using the \typical\ Hollywood love scene. Lewitsky Teaches Class Book, after an attempt on his life is made, takes the boy and his mother, Rachel (Kelly McGillis), back to their Lan- caster County farm in Penn- sylvania to hide. It is here where Book and Rachel Lapp form an uneasy attraction towards each other while Daniel Hochleiter (played by ballet star Alexander Godunov), an Amish farmer, completes the romantic triangle. The film depicts the meeting of two worlds-Book's and Lapp's--set within the Amish reahn where life continues even today in an eighteenth century mode. The hard-boiled Book is introduced to the Amish way of non-violence while Rachel Lapp meets with Book's twentieth century violent world. This indoctrinization theme is well played out by director Weir. When Samuel sees the city for the first time, Weir allows him to wander off at the Philadelphia train station. Here the camera· follows Samuel on his odyssey throughout the station as he discovers the wonders, and horrors, of urban life. Weir recreates this scene later in the film when Samuel is allowed to explore Book's police Ford is superb in this picture; McGillis, on the other hand, is not as effective in her role. She is not as attractive as Ford, an obviously intentional move by the casting director, nor is she , as proficient in her role. -In fiis first film, Godunov proves very good in his pivotal role. He displays a strong enough character to compete with Ford's. Without Godunov's effectiveness here, the love triangle in the film would have Jacked any credibility, thus, hurting the film. Weir, most known for his films \Gallipoli\ and \The Year of Living Dangerously,\ has taken a simple plot and added mood and meaning to it. His comparison between two By MICKEY BRADLEY Arts Staff The Lewitzky Dance Com- pany is one of the most ac- Claimed dance troupes in the country and its leader, Bella Lewitzky, is what Union's dance instructor Pat Castelli describes as \the Pavarotti of dame e.\ Lewitzky took her outfit to Proctor's last night (to be reviewed next week) but she took time out of her preparation for that show to teach a Master Class in dance at Union on Monday. Bella Lewitzky is probably as close as one gets to being a living legend in modern dance. She has devoted her life to the art, and though she is now 69, and stopped dancing at 62, there is no question as to who is the most important person involved with the Lewitzky Company. She founded the twelve-member group in 1966, and continues to tour and choreograph the en .. semble, and she proved on Monday that she has kept her dancer's body and grace. And for a woman Who once com- plained, \I can't tolerate a movement not done perfectly,\ she is surprisingly patient as a teacher. Lewitzky was very at ease with the class (which consisted of about fifteen Union students), talking them through isolation exercises and explaining the moves along the way. She ran the class through a variety of movements, stressing tone, coordination, tempo, form, and other dynamic techniques. She made every move look natural and effortless, atJ.d seemed to convey that simplicity to the students. Overall, she was impressed with the class and was quick to praise especially skillful maneuvers. Lewitzky has her own. rules about teaching dance classes. No sweats are allowed, in order for the .... instructor to ·observe muscle tone and be certain the students are tensing and relaxing in all the right places. - She asked that her aides be allowed to touch the students Don't forget when helping them, so that they can fonn the bodies into proper position. And she adamantly argued that dance cannot be taught as a lecture. \It is ex- periencial,\ she stated) \it can't be done without body.\ The experience was a great opport~ity ·for Union students to learn from one of the most celebrated dance masters in America. Pat Castelli is to be commended for having coaxed her longtime fr!end mto guest- teaching, and introducing the c&IIlpus to a true giant of dance fonn. There will be another Master Class this afternoon at 4:30 in the Arts Dance Hall, this time featuring Schenectady- native Kurt Weinheimer, a member of the Lewitzky Company. Again, anyone is invited to attend and par- ticipate, or merely watch a professional in action. to take ad- vantage of Proctor's St~dent Discount: half .. price one hour before show, depending on availability. ii - J \ F al tl H A SE cl S1 \' \] di pc C( di te

·coNCORDIENSIS, FebruaryU, 1985 Japanese Films OHered By ROB WIESENBERG A mini-series of four Japanese films entitled \Masterpieces of Japanese Film\ will be offered winter and spring terms on behalf of the Minerva Committee, the History Department, and the Arts Department. The mini- series, will feature the four classic films; \The Seven Samurai,\ \Gates of Hell,\ \Ikiru (To Live),\ and ''Rashomon.'' \The Seven Samurai\ is directed by Akira Kurosawa, perhaps the most reknown contemporary Japanese director. The film is an in- terplay of feelings between seven samurai warriors and the inhabitants of a small village who hire the warriors to protect them from bandit attacks. The second film, \Gate of Hell'' is a tragedy story in 12th century Japan about a samurai wao becomes a monk to atone for his crime after his love for an honorable married woman. . The film is the Winner of two Academy Awards and is marveled for its cinemato-graphy. \Ikiru (To Live)\ is the story Of a man's despair in the face of mortality. This is considered Kurosawa's most touching fihn. He combines poetic imagery and complex flashbacks to portray a civU servant who, when he learns he has only six months to live vows to make his final days meaningful. The last film \Rashomon\ is also directed by Kurosawa. In this film he uses a flashback technique to interweave four interpretations, of tragic acts of violence that occured in the forests of Medevil Japan. The mini-series has been inspired by both the group of students that just returned from Union's first term abroad in Japan and the growing student interest and awareness in Japanese culture. The films will be shown February 18, March 4, April8 and April22 at 7:00 p.m. in SS016. No admission fee will be charged. The Oak Ridge Boys ;in Concert at The Glens Falls -Civic Center STAGE ONE ENTERTAINMENT is pleased to an- nounce THE OAK RIDGE BOYS in Concert at the Glens Falls Civic Center on Thursday evening, March 21, 1985 at 7:30p.m. Special guest .is THE J U DDS. Tickets for the show are on sale now at the Civic Center Box Office, Ticketron, Book King in Rutland and Hilton Music Stores in Albany, Troy, Amsterdam and Clifton Park. Tickets are priced at $13.50, all seats reserved. Page9 \THE__ ARTS~ Comedian Jay Leno will be appearing at Memorial Chapel on February 26 at 8 p.m. Lena has appeared on The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson, Merv Griffin, Mike Douglas, Hollywood Squares, and Late Night with David Letterman (35 times!) According to David Let- terman; \Jay Leno is the funni~st comedian working today.\ Tickets are $2 for students and faculty and $4 for the public and are available at Carnegie Hall Box office. Coming in FebrUary QUilters-Capital Rep.-now through March 3. Perfonnances Tues.-Fri. at 8 p.m., Sat. 4:30 and 9 p.m., Sun. 2:30. Tickets at the Market Street Theatre and Community Box Offices, $9.50 to $15. Compagnie Phillipe Genty-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Thur., Feb. 14. Tickets $12.50, $10.50, $7.50. The Desp·erate Hours-Suspenseful drama-RPI Playhouse- Feb. 15, 16 at 8 p.m. Tickets $4. Footworks-Factilty and student dance concert-sUNY Per- forming Arts Center-8 p.m., Feb. 15-16. Call 457-8606 for ticket information. Selections from Bach-Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson of the Arts Dept. on. t~e h~rpsichord-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 16, Memorial Chapel. Ad- miSSIQn IS free. Tosbiko Akiyoshi Jazz Orchestra- Troy Savings Bank Music Hall-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 16. Tickets $13 and $11. - Munich Chamber Orchestra-Troy Savings Bank Music Hall-8 p.m., Tues., Feb.19. Tickets $7 for students. Lunchtime Harpsichord Recital-Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson of the Arts Dept.-Arts Building Atrium-Wednesdays, Feb. 20, 27. Ad- mission is free. Introduction to the Music of West Africa-Arts Department ·Recital Hall-7:30p.m., Fri., Feb. 22. Admission free. Handel Concert-SUNY Performing Arts Center-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 23. Free admission. Marcel Marceau-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Sat., Feb. 23. Tickets $16, $13.50, $9.50. Quintet-ESIPA-Empire State Plaza at the Egg, Feb. 24, 25. Call473-3750 for information. Bancheto Musicale Concert-Troy Savings Bank Music Hall-8 p.m., Tuesday, Feb. 26. Tickets: $10 and $7. Call Box Office at 273- 0038 for infonnation. The Irish Rovers-Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m., Tues., Feb. 26. Rigoletto-Proctor's Theatre-8 p.m., Thurs., Feb. 28. Tickets $20, $17' $12. ' AND NOW ••• At We Slzpppe Time for a Real Sale .. All This Week 25% More Off All Sale Merchandise February 14-22 370 Broadway Saratoga, NY 12866 518·587 -8007 Hrs.: Mon.-Sat. 10·6 We8Jtpppe* Neat CI!Jthing, Jewelry. & Accessories ; •. - 133 CanaiSquare Schenectady, NY 370-4288 Hrs.: M, T, Th, Sat 1 0·6 Fri. 1 0·9 RESTAURANT ANO LOUNGE 6 1 6 lJNION STftEI!T SCHENECTADY, NY 1230!5 PH. 374·0!511 Tia Maria Party r:=ebruary 14th featuring live music from 7-10 pm by DARBY HILL * First Drink Free * Tia Maria Drinks only $1.50. All Night * FreeT -Shirts* Raffle every hour for hardwoodcutting boards and leather belts

;\'.· Page 10_ To all student activity chairmen: All boxesfoi' Concordiensis must be typed! If you wish to run an ad for mora than one week, please cut the ad out of the paper and tapa It to a sheet of paper. When changes are made to an ad that was previously run, the ad must I VIA VENETO ·CAFE A new bar at the A.ppian Way Invites You To Tonight from 9-2 a.m. Specials.lnclude *rigatoni bolognese $3.50 *individual, homemade Pizzas w/unique toppings--$1 $75 * mixed drinks--$1.00 *and more! 1841 Van- Vranken This Friday: LADIES NIGHT Special: Mixed Drinks $1.00 Domestic Beer 50(: Now Open Sundays 1 p.m.-9 p.m. *Special Sunday Dinners: Homecooked Ita I ian Specialties A comedy skit about a young woman who signs up at a dating ser:vice to meet \the man of her dreams\ On Thursday, February 14, 1985 Starting at 11 p.m. at Dutch Hollow Pub ALSO PLAYING: TRESPASS Live Music on Saturday, February 16,1985 from 10 p.m. to Close \Hair Today, Gone Tomorrow\ PERMANENT HAIR REMOVAL We use the all new short wave instantron electrolysis equipment featuring and providing the best, most comfortable treatment for the removal of unwanted hair on the face. arms. legs and body. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• * Free Consultation * Free Demonstration * * Free Brochure on Request * FREE TREATMENT And 20 % off any future treatments within 30 days New patients only when ad Is presented on Initial visit at one location only, valid thru 2/23/85 * ALICE A. BAKER INC .. * .(:CB·14 Established 1972 • Grodu;oto of Kree tnstllutt Mtmberoi.N. Y.E.A., A.E.A. and The Guild 127 Canal Square, Schenectady • 382·0087 363 Central Avenue. Albany • 462·5670 CONCORDIENSJS, February 14, 1985 DOLLAR DAYS 1 2 .Price ~' ' ·UIRE .. SHOP AUFall& Winter: Sportshirts Select group of Bass Shoes Outerwear Dress Slacks Sweaters 420 State St. Canal Square Open Thurs. & Fri. till 9p.m. SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT · APPEN. HA.IR DESIG~ Located on corner of Broadway& Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts STUDENT SPECIAL Feb. 7-21 with Gary,· Teri & Marcie $12.00 Haircuts * We carry a full line of Nexus and Seb(!stian hair care products. 25% off retail with student I D. benefits and regular Best of all. you'll have experience. A challenging job. most of your medical school bi paid. Don't wait to get the facts. the coupon below now. There obligation. ... ------- '·.·: ---.-----~----- 1 YESI Tell me how the A!'med Forces Health Professions Scholarsh1pProgram • can help pay my i\il(fdical school e~penses. I understand there is no obligation. 1---: Mail this coupon to: Armed F6tces Scholarships, P.O. Box 1776, Huntington Station, NY 11746·2102 9006 I I Check up to three: D ARMY 0 NAVY 0 AIR FORCE I Ploaoe print alllnlormollon claarly.and complitoly. ~ I Name 0 Male 0 Female I Firs! Middle lniUal Las! I Aqdress. __________ .......,._ ___ Apt. #--;:::::;:::;::::;::::::;::; I I City __________ stat.,_ _____ ZJpl I I I I. l1 ~ I 1 0 1 Phone I I I II I I II I I I Soc. Sec. No.I I I I OJ I I I I l1 ~ I Area Code Numbe• Birth rn rn OJ I ~ College Date Mo Day Year I ~ Graduation [JJ OJ ......__-..:j I Field of Study . · Date Mo. Year I The Information you volUntarily prov1de will be used for recruiting purposes only. Tho more complete it is, the btlttor we 1 can respond to your request (Authority: 10. USC 503.) . . . . S ~ •-••-••••-•• •••-••-•• ~u ] ] j c . 1 I i E ( ( ( s I ' r s p r f: c a n v c s st SJ Si of F' ()j cc th fiJ UI dE di wi Fl St to ac fr, Pl v. Rl po \I to m tb M. ha fej pe tb br co tb wi cl< fo1 tal

. ' CONCORDIENSJS, February 14, 1985 Page 11 LETTERS Foundn/ ot Union Coll~e i877 · ----~------ ------------ RecrUiting Day a Success Forum Office Hours --------~------------ To the Editor: In an effort to bring the student's ideas to the Student Forum on a regular basis, office hours will begin today. The Student Forum Office, located on the fourth floor of Carnegie Bali, will be open permanently between 1:30-4:30 PM from Monday through Friday. Please bring us your ideas, opinions, criticisms and compliments. Just please come visit us or we will get very lonely and bored. The Student Forum During the past few .months, Union's career center has been making great strides in securing more and more recruiting opportunities for the so-caUed senior liberal arts major. For instance, last month Union Represent Yourself! joined with. Colby College, Mt. Holyoke CoHege, and To the Editor: Connecticut College to hold a Boston recruiting day at 1 have no rallying cry. Our . the Marriott Hotel in Boston. This one-day event in,. generation is not one of rash eluded some 50 to 60 Uniori students interviewing with student activism. We can be various Boston firms. proud of our pragmatic concern This recruiting day proved invaluable for those to become productive members students who ·had never undergone. the interviewing of America's society. But, we best prepare to suffer, the process as well as those who had. Union students had consequences of a lack in interviews with anywhere from one to four, five, and student financial assistance if even more companies that day. Interviewees were we do not represent our In- also introduced to career options they may have not terests to our legislators. considered earlier. Even the more technically· - · · Do you know the implications of President Reagan's proposed education? According to Ellen Frishberg, Union's Financial Aid Director, $1,029,181 would be lost to Union students in Guaranteed Student Loans. That figure does not include any of the other proposed cuts for other federal financial assistance programs. Are the decisions in Washington the only a.ctivities we should be concerned about? Not if you stop to consider this fact: one out of four students at Union depend on State financial assistance to help meet costs. We, as students, are faced with the fads. State and Federal financial aid is nat a right nor guaranteed. How much financial aid do you deserve to loose? Exactly the amount you are not willing to stand up and fight for. If you're willing to get in- volved, I'm willing to help. Contact me through Box 235. Sincerely, Steven I. Benson oriented student found job opporttinities that day. In budget cuts to higher ~e~~~n:n:~r~ttended this benefit benefited in COMMENT ARIES Next.month; the career center will hold yet another such recruiting day, but this time in New York City. Here, Union will be hosting the event along with V~ssar, Haverford, and Bryn Mawr. Again, this recruiting session is )ntended for the liberal arts student who is seemingly so often ignored in com- parison to Union's technical majors in on~campus recruitment. However, the technical student can also find opportunities at this upcoming day if he or she so chooses. Overall, what should be noted is the career center's , attempt to assist the liberal arts major in the career market. In the past, this student has been neglected. With the help of these recruiting· days and further career center endeavors, Union's future liberal arts student should find that career path a little less rocky. .< - : , t· • :' -- _._ \- • •_ • lj_ T_~ .• , All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Spring Term Preregistration Procedures The procedlll'es for preregistration have been changed sub- stantially from those of the past. Each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. This preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Preregistration materials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Monday, February 25. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are in- dicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the relevant departments on Wednesday, February 27. Students should sign the list to indicate an interest. Students should then return to the department on Friday, March 1 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those students admitted to a list course must secure a course reservation card from the department. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A IJST COURSE WITHOUT A RESER- VATION CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. The date and time for each student's preregistration ap- pointment · will be printed on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form., Students will be allowed to preregister ONLY AT THE ASSIGNED TIME or, for those who miss their appointment, on Friday, March 8 at the same time as their original appointment. Preregistration will conclude Friday, March 8 (no late preregistration will be permitted) and those who have not preregistered by the end of that day will be assessed a $25 fee. Further coW'se changes may be made during the Drop/Add period starting Monday, Aprill. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their \Preregistration CoW'se Request Form\ (this form must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that their form is properly filled out and then see a staff member who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistration form and then see a staff member. It is hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten minutes at the most. . < From Where I Stand By WAYNE JOSEL Probably the single biggest dilemma facing the senior is trying to decide what to do following graduation. There are so many emotions and pressure involved in making the decision. One of the major paradoxes that comes into play is that, at age 21 or 22, we have little idea what we actually want to do with our . lives. Yet we must begin somewhere, and to try to get a . start one must show some serious enthusiasm to the venture. This becomes diffieult when one is really not sure from the start. A classic example of this coming into play is· the job in- terview taken for practice, for lack of anything better to do, or because maybe the interviewer will get you excited enough about the job that you would consider it. The problem with these scenes is that while you are sitting there with a mild interest in the company and its programs, the interviewer is looking for someone who knows the company's balance sheets by heart, and would clean the president's office with his or her tongue. The interviewer can really turn your day sour at this point. What you considered to be an information sesSion turns into an inquisition that you really did not .. expe(!t. Trying to Elections for the positions of · Editors-in-Chief· of Concordiensis will be held on February 26 in the Concordy office on the· fourth floor of Carnegie. A sign- up sheet is posted in the student activities office. All in- terested students must submit their name and phone number by Monday. Februa- ry25. maintain your facade of interest at this point becomes more and more difficult. In an effort to remain as honest as possible, you let slip that you really do not know what you want to do, but given the chance you might try this company. Good point granted, but why would that interviewer reconunend you fot a position that you are not doing handstands over? I have to give the people in the Career. Development Center credit. They help ·out· a great deal with resumes, contacts, etc. Yet the simple problem is that interviewing for many different positions just to see what turns up, as they and many others encourage, does not seem to work. The problem here is not with the career counselors, but a failure on the part of recruiters to understand the inherent doubts of a college senior. People all over tell me its all right not to know what I want to do with my life at this point. Yet recruiters seem to forget that. They are looking for a 21 year old with the rest of his life planned out. I've asked a few recruiters what they did after graduation. Many said they remained in school. It seems safe to say that they .were not quite sure what they wanted either. It should be apparent that I aJ;ll not speaking for all seniors. There 'are many out there who know exactly what they will do next year, and I give them a lot of credit. However I also think that there are many more out there with thoughts like mine. I have no answers, only more questions. If someone has some encouraging thoughts I would like to hear them. I have heard them from all over, but they just do not seem to convince me of anything anymore. Anything bothering you? Make yourself heard! Write a letter to the editor

Pagel~. CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1985 -· . FINANCIAL AID Financial aid application materials for 1985-86 are now available in the Financial Aid Office, 2nd floor, Becker Hall. All applications must be completed and received by April 15. Don't delay--no reminders will be sent! National Museum of Design offers 10-week summer fellowships to students in- terested in the fields of design, the decorative arts, exhibition development, library services, or museum education. Volunteer internships are also available. Applicatien deadline: April 1, 1985. The Gloucester Fisherman's Museum offers two internship programs. A summer research ---------~~~~~~-- \ position designed· for biology CAREER NE-WS majors, deals with marine Internships & Fellowships (information available at the Career Development Center) The College of William and Mary in Virginia offers ap- prenticeship and internship programs for grad,uate students. The apprenticeships are available in archives and manuscript collections, the editing of historical books and magazines, historical ar- ~haeology, and museum management. Application deadline: February 15, 1985. The Mellon Summer Research Program in Psychiatry .for undergraduates provides fellowships for college juniors and seniors. Students will work with faculty in- vestigating clinical populations and in basic laboratory settings. Application deadline: February 22, 1985. mammals. The second position is in marine education and geared toward communication skills. The education internship is offered during the school year. Application deadlines: Research--March 1, 1985; Education-February 28, 1985. Historic Deerfield offers between six and ten summer fellowships to students who have completed at least two years of college. The program is intended to encourage students to consider careers in museums, historic preser- vation, and the study of American culture. Application deadline: February 15, 1985. State Bank of Albany Sum• mer Intern Program is for students who have finished their junior year of college and are interested in a banking career. Minority students are en- couraged to apply. Application deadline: March 31, 1985. Albany, NY. Up to 20 in- ternships are available for college students who have completed their junior year and are New York residents. Students will gain knowledge in the workings of state govern- ment and the legislative process. The . program runs from June 17 - Ausust 23, 1985. .1\pplication deadline: April 1. Council for Opportunity in Graduate Management Education. (COGME) ,offers fellowships tG Afro-Americans, American Indians, Asian- Americans, and Hispanic Americans interested in the field of management. Application deadline: April 15, 1985. Albany Medical College offers a summer research assistant- ship. The assistant will work on a project related to medical manp()wer. The program lasts for ten weeks and is a full-time position. Application deadline: March 1, 1985. ·SPEAf(ERS \The Role of Women in Politics\- a discussion with Jill Buckley, President of Jill Buckley Associates. One of the leading political media con- sultants in the country. In the 1984 campaign had more clients than any other consulting firm. Thursday, February 14, 12:30 - 1:30, Banquet Room. SPRING BREAK psychoanalyst Douglas · LaBier will discuss \Careers Values Conflict and Emotional Disturbance\ in a talk at Union College Tuesday, Feb. 19; at 7 p.m. in Psychology Building Room 113. The public is invited to attend; no admission will be charged. A presentation on the medical, social : and philosophical aspects of abortion and its effects on women and society with the noted speaker Barbara Fraterrigo and Jan Lovell of WEBA. February 14th, 1985, 7:30-9:30 p.m., Stage 2; 3rd floor Carnegie Hall. Question and answer period will follow. All are welcome! Sponsored by the Union College Pro-Life Forum. Noted speaker Barbara Fraterrigo and Jan Lovell of WEBA will be interviewed on WRUC 89.7 FM on the medical, social, and philosophical' aspects of abortion and its ef- fects on women and society. Thursday, Febr,uary 14 at 9:30 p.m. Phone in your questions over the air at 370..Ql51. u Ft. Lauderdale Daytona Bahamas We Have It All N T R A v E L & Applicable Low Rates PLUS Las Vegas Anywhere Your Break From Us! Make Your Reservations or Purchase Your Ticket Thru Us • Free Transportation to AI bany Airport • Free I nflight Drink when Available • Free Laminated Baggage Tags -346•3431 Sun Travel 6:30 p.m., in 4th floor lounge, Carnegie, for Bible study. All · are welcome to attend. We are now planning our annual \Fun Night.\ · Union College Gaming Association is .hosting : WIN- TER Wim DUNGEONS AND DRAGONS, a 2-part 2-day tournament, Fri.,. Feb. 15 at 7:00 p.m. and Sat. Feb. ~6 at 1:00 ·p.m. in Humanities Building, room 115, 116. Contact Larry at 370..Q677 or Toby at 370- 6494. The Department of the Arts, History, Political Science, Sociology and the Minerva Committee will sponsor \Masterpieces of Japanese Film,\ a· series of four films to be shown this term and next on Monday evenings at 7:30 in SS 016. The first film will be \Seven Samurai\ on February 18. The remaining three films and their dates are \Gate of Hell\ on March 4, \Ikiru\ on April 8, and \Roshomon\ on April 22. Admission is free and everyone is invited. Help support Ethiopian Jewry. Buy a raffle.lstpriie: Tdp fot2 to Grossinger's Resort in the Catskills. JSU will be selling raffles in Carnegie today and tomorrow. Drawing Friday! Yearbook meetings have been changed to Wed. nights at 7:30, in the Year book Office (4th floor Carnegie). We need your help! JSU Friday night dinner, 't'omorrow and every Friday. Services at 5:30, dinner at 6:00, only $3, !k.osher kitchen. Israel and the Media, featuring NBC in Lebanon, a documentary about NBC's r biased coverage of the war with Lebanon. Also The Media and the Sharon Trial, Wednesday, February 20, at 8:00, Banquet Room. Sponsored by JSU. Newman Folk Group- Sunday evenings at 6:30 p.m. All singers and musicians meet with Friar Paul to prepare for the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members always welcome. Sunday Social-February 17 ·following the 7:30 p.m. Mass the Newman Club will host a social in the Rectory. All members of the Union community are cordially invited. Prayer-Scripture Study Groups-Monday, February 18, at 5 p.m. and Wednesday, February20, at 11:30 a.m. with 7- ' (ll lr~ · WRUC 19 . ., ...... , ••• Prepare For TRIVIA Organize your team NOW!!! Starts Sunday', Feb. 17 Also Feb. 24& Mar. 3 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. Heard Only on WRUC89.7 FM j ~ ( I I ' I \ t a

All · are ing NO at at act ce, ~va to on ss be o£ on on ~en a nd ~et ~w 17 of 0 CONCORDIENS/S, February 14, 1985 Page 13 Sr. Joan in Religious Programs Office. Newman Meeting & Socinl- Monday, February 18, at 8 p.m. in the 4th floor Lounge, Car- negie. . Ash Wednesday Service- Febrt~ary 20 at 4:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Rev. Hugh Nevin and Sr. Joan Vlaun will conduct an ecwnenical prayer service and distribute ashes. Hugh Allen Wilson will provide Musical accompaniment. Tutorial Program-Any Union student interested in tutoring Reading one hour a week , primarily to second graders of St. John the Evangelist School please contact. Liz Karazim, 370-677 4. CLASSIHEDS Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, Professor of Music, will be giving Lunchtime Harpsichard Recitals each Weetnesday af- ternoan through the remainder of the winter term. They will be held each Wednesday at 12:30 - 1:15 p.m., the first concert to be given February 13 in the Atrium of the Arts Building. The Union Community is cordially invited to attend. The third of 12 recitals of Bach organ music by Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of music at Union College, will be held on Campus Saturday, Feb. 16, at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. The program will include Bach's \Eight Little Preludes and Fugues\ and \D Minor Trio Sonata No. 3\ among other works. Admission is free and the public is invited to attend. Are you interested in going away Spring Break, but no one will book you because you are too late? I still have some trips available for Ft. Lauderdale & Daytona, Florida and for Nassau-Paradise Island and Freeport, Bahamas. Call me immediately if you are in- terested because trips are going fast. Cristina Corse, x6418. Remember space is limited! LOST: A small tiger's eye heart on 2-8-85 somewhere . between the Arts building and the lAM offices with the Social Sciences Building in the middle. Great sentimental value. Reward. Call 370-'6203, 9-2:30 M- F. \ Students who wish to study abroad with one of ·Union's Happy Valentine's Day Terms Abroad in fall term, 1985 must submit their applications by February 15. · The 1985 American Collegiate , Talent Showcase (ACTS) competition has added a special audition by London Wavelength for the top scoring rock bands in addition to the currently awarded showcases at the .Ritz in New York City and the Palace in Los Angeles. Interested students may con- tact ACTS, Box 3ACT, NMSU, Las Cruces, NM, 88003 or call (505) 646-4413. Engaged? Save money-rent silk altar arrangements and bows for church pews-$35. Call Gen at 399~7761. · The Film Committee presents on 2~15- 17 \Sudden Impact\ at 7, 9, 11. On 2-19 \The Maltese Falcon\ at 7, 9, 11. Tickets available in Carnegie for $1. Films shown in SS016. PERSONALS . . ' John Kelly, modern day saint who lives on·Sex and Drugs and Rock and Roll, please come back-we miss ya SMELLY BOY! BONGATHON-6 at Hot Toddy's House, July 1985-be there, aloha! ~ ·· Get psyched for Candy grams Pi Alphas. Good Luck in Lake George Home-o's. Some loyal fans. O.K. kids, it's time to play \Guess what this is\ .... Now, here are your clues. ,.1.) It is made of soft, polyurethane 2.) smells like rotting flesh, and is thought to be rancid and 3.) lives in West ... Any Guesses? Well, if you leave it out, we'll kill you .... GLR,Here's to our fourth together .... Happy Valentine's Day! Love, SRP Tomorrow is the last day to drop a course. Only extraordinary personal circumstances wi II be considered for ar-ty request to drop a course following the close of the S'ixth (6th) · week of classes, February 15, 1985. UNION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITTEE & PROCTOR'S THEATRE PRESENT SPYRO GYRA Sunday, Feb. 24 • 8 p.m. j Proctor's Theatre with special guests: • DRY JACK Tickefsonly$7.oow/ Union ID . Geberal Public--$12/$9 ' SRP, Here's to our fourth together ... Happy Valentine's Day!! Love,GLR Happy Valentine's Day KW, TFD, Janette, and Smitty!! What a lucky break it was to find you guys! !-LT Happy Valentine's Day Rob; Max, and Max~! ! ! I love you guys so much!! -Brute To Jon from HHH-Happy Valentine's Day and Happy Friendship! I love you! Marce Puff, puff, happy birthday Judy, puff, please be my valentine, love Mr. T.B. Judy, Happy birthday and Valentine's Day. We love you a lot! Andy, Oscar, Mr. TB, T.B. Junior, Surphy and Murphy. To my birthday valentine, Happy 21st Valentine's Day! Love you much, Andy Little sisters of Phi Sigma Kappy-Thank you for helping us make it thru the fog-THE NEW BROTHERS To Brothers & Pledges -of Phi Sig: THE ROOKS RULE!! ! To the pre-med in 429 South: Sometimes you just have to say \What the fuck?$$ And five weeks is a long time. Happy Valentine's Day. To Francois' Friend: Thanks for a _gre~t term so far. (And here's your first personal!) Happy Valentine's Day. Love, A. Skating Dutchmen-Congrats on another successful road trip- esp_ecially Scott, Tom B., Sean, and Tim-way to show Union has four SCORING lines and more than one WINNING goalie!! Can't wait for Satur- day-GO get North Adams!!! Fellow Bettys-I missed you. I'm so glad to be home. Love, Betty Pox P.S. Happy V-day! Little sisters of PSK: Great job with Founders, we all ap- preciated your help, thanks for the boutonierres and hors j'oeurves in particular -. The Brothers SB-~-Have you checked your clock? Happy Valentine's Day! To my valentine with. the distinctive nose-I'm so glad that we 've decided to take a chance. Love, Whitie To my dearest blood sisters, Happy Valentine's Day! All my love, Harry Dear Flintstone, Happy Valentine's Day! Me 2 Back. All my love. Your Little Girl To Ecinaj, Aivilo, and Assyla (the Hun)~My three favorite roommates'- Here's wishing . you a Happy Valentine's Day! Love Ya-Adnil To: Italy Term Abroad 1984. Happy Valentine's Day! Let's all go have a party at the Bee- Bop. Ciao Sweet Breads. North Nosem~kers: Happy Valentine's Day! Love, a fellow Noisemaker!! Potato .Head: Happy Valentine's Day! Thanks for being so understanding! Love, Snookums! Navy Gold: Forged in a Tradition of Excellence J.M.-'I'hanks for listening all the time! Hopefully good news from now on (No more geeks). HappyValentine'sDay! Love,? There once was an innocent lad Who likes to be called Conrad His girl at Cornell is mad as hell That he's not enjoying her along with this ad. Happy Valentine's Day Conrad Tatge, Love Katie The Political Science Department is happy to an- nounce the Third Course for Washington Interns: Hormones in the body politic. Course material and curricula will center on FSH, LA, and T&A. Bring us more kittens, Duane. Then have sent to my chamgers two young boys, a pumpkin, and the schnauzer. After this meeting I shall wish to be depraved. Emily-Happy Valentine's Day-Have fun at the formal- Love, Lynn Dave Kaplan, Dave Allen, Jamie Cairns, and Clayton Conklin-Clean your ash trays! Oh yeah--Happy Valentine's Day! ???? Daisy, Arrwwwvv you!!!! Donald Because the Officers wearing it are the best in the world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the . challenges of Naval Aviation. Strong. dedi- cated professionals who can control the world's most sophisti- cated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for aviators that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if you're qualified. see the Navy Representa- tive that will be in the Campus Center on February 1 S or call collect (51 B) 462-6119. Minority Students Encouraged to Apply Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS, February 14, 1985 Union College Film Committee presents: Fri.-Sun. 2/15-2/17 • 7, 9, 11 p.m. SSOl6 • $1.00 Admission FILM SERIES A comparison between films of four different decades: TONIGHT February 14 Some Like It Hot February 21 Klute February 28 Looking For Mr. Goodbar All At 9:00 in 55016 FREE Sponsored by Women's Network & Wrmen's Commission If you purchased the 1984 Yearbook last year, the Spring Supplement is now available in the Student Activities Of- Hce. NAME SCHOOL ROOMMATES DEPARTURE CITY ,_ · ,,_t l~,;ra;wH~t<~~\>'·\fik'1~4~~:1·;~\t'1~\!~:'£' 1 ' : _:;'(..;. . :::~-· ; .. ~ . . . . Molson Golden ... ·,~ AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB· . . The finest ale brewed and bottled in Canada. !mported by Martlet Importing Co., Inc., Great Neck, NJY. © 1982. ~­ ·• ·-.:> .. •·-:-: .. '~ ~-~---~ .. -~· • '•'c, . )+~i~~~~t{h: ·- 'l Cl Vc. ga ho le~ we pe la~ ha Co Cit go tw a g. M< B Co: the res 8: I; sec me tee cor sei: por poi1 ren lea~ sine Dut ver evE rna D'C 1 :2! H01 a hE en en <ll '- Q .... ... 0 u V) >. .c .E 0 .r: Q. Sr. chr 901

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1985 Union College Film Committee presents: .... t\< .A, \ \'11'~'\i ~ B.,, , \''I •,., ; > · '• '• •, . ! • '\'\ • ,.... - ..... ,.,.. ~...;j.;.~ . ...L Jt •' .... ·'·~··. Fri.-Sun. 2/15-2/17 • 7, 9, 11 p.m. SS016 • $1.00 Admission FILM S'ERIES A comparison between films of four different decades: TONIGHT February 14 Some Like It Hot February 21 Klute February 28 Looking For Mr. Goodbar All At 9:00 in 55016 FREE Sponsored by Women's Network & Wrmen's Commission If you purchased the 1984 Yearbook last year, the Spring Supplement is now CJvai I able in the Student Activities Of fice. J! ~ Q Your Bahamas College Week Includes: • Round-trip air transportatior:1 from your home dty to Bahamas • 7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inn-casual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casir:~o and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotel-ideally located across the street from the beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add-$50.00 Double add $ I 00.00 • Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers \ Hotel room tax '\ Grat~c~ities for bellman. chamermaids and poolman • College Week activities-sports, parties, music, hm. Hotel Options Nassau-Add $25.00 for deluxe Cable Beach Inn, add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel Freeport-Add $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel. SPACE FILLING UP FAST-- BOOK NOW!!!!! ----------!--------------·-·· f l\-~·~\l~ll' 212-355-4705. /800. -223-0694 (reservations only) 1 .,_ . l'C Bahamas CoJ,Jege Weeks 1 INn!R COlLEGIATE [] Feb 23-Mar 02 0 Apr 6-Apr 13 1 0 May 18-May 25 I HOliDAYS INC. D Mar02-Mar09 0 Apr 13-Apr20 0 May 25-June 0.1 Ll Mar 09'-Mar 16 0 Apr 20-Apr 27 0 June 01-June 08 1 501 Madison Avenue 0 Mar 16-Mar 23 0 Apr 27 -May 04 0 June 08-June 15 New York, NY 10022 [l Mar 23....:Mar 30 0 May 04-May 11 0 June 15-June 22 I Check One: [J Mar 30-Apr 6 0 May 11-May 18 1 I : FREEPORT I i NASSAU Occupancy (Sat. departures) (Sat. departures) [ J Quad I l Triple [ ; Double II l, Sounds good. I've checked the week I want to party and enclosed a $100 deposit. I ~ ; Send Brochure NAME SCHOOL ROOMMATES I -·-·--- I I ------ 1 ~==:-·---------·-----co===-===------------- I ADDRESS DEPARl'URE CITY •. I CITY -----· STATE ZIP PH NO. I 1 *All price~ plus 15% tax and services. Campus Rep/Office I I Price based on departures from I New York[, Boston. (Add $20 from I I Baltimore and $40 from Philadelphia). 1 I Each traveler must fill out separate forrn. ·--------····--.;. ................ .1 . . . ·'}.Vi .. . ~ _,. Prerequisite·.for Canadian Majors. \-~--- Molson Golden. That's ~.~~ ............. I!Ulll AVAILABLE AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW PUB- The finest ale brewed and bottled in Canada. :mported by Martlet lmportmg ( o., Inc., Great Neck, NN. © 1982. J ·' ·.r; - - c Clt Va ga1 hor lea wo: per las hac CoJ Cle go twc ag:: Mo B· Cor the rest 8:H sco mer tecl eon sei2 port pair rem leac sine Dut' ven eve: mar 1)'0 1:25 Hu~ a he Sr. chn goa

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I CONCORDIENSIS, February 14,1985 Page 15 Athlete of the Wee'k By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to Rebecca Clemente of the Women's Varsity Basketball team for garnering Athlete of the Week honors. The 5'6\ junior is the leading scorer for the hoop- women, averaging 15.6 points per game. In the Dutchwomen's last three games, Rebecca has had. the hot hand' Against the Continentals of Hamilton, Clemente poured in 16 points to .E of 20 from the floor and nve of six from the charity stripe for 23 0 go along with three assists and :g_ two steals. In the next game 0 against the North Adams State <f) Mohawks, she canned nine out B-ball ••• Continued from page 16 the squads exchanged points, resulting in a 41-41 score with 8:18 left in the game, With the score still knotted, Union mentor Scanlon picked up a technical foul on a highly controversial call. Hartwick seized control of 'this op- portunity by opening up a six- point lead, 51-45, with 4:09 remaining. This was the biggest lead that either team enjoyed since the early going. The Dutchmen overcame this ad- versity by hanging tough, and eventually Union cut the margin to one, 55-54, on a Ken D'Orazio three-point play with 1:25 showing on the clock. However, they could not pull Rebecca Clemente crushing 57,54 loss at the hands of a 14-5 Hartwick club. Union was led by Ken D'Orazio with a game-high 26 points and 10 rebounds. . D'Orazio was followed by guards Tom Beck and Ken Levine with 8 points each. DUTCHMEN NOTES ......... Union currently points. Rebecca continued her exceptional play against New Paltz as she scored 2{) points and dished out four assists. As the returning MVP from last year's squad, Rebecca has been counted on heavily and hasn't let anyone down. As a fresh- man, Clemente captured the prestigious Cuttita award as the top freshman female athlete. Rebecca is a math-biology major and a sister of the Delta Gamma sorority. ·The Dut- chwomen host the sixth annual Capital District Tournament this weekend as they face Albany State at 8 p.m. tomorrow night. Come cheer on Rebecca and The Dutchwomen in .their quest for the Capital District title. 5th with 1,157 career point- s .... This season Union has been led in scoring by these two seniors-Bartlett is averaging 18.5 ppg and D'Orazio is hitting for 17.2 ppg .... As a team, the Dutchmen are averaging 70.1 ppg, while giving up 66.0 ppg .... As a team the Dutchmen are averaging 70.1 ppg, while giving up66.0 ppg .... The JV side of the program sees the junior Dutchmen holding a 5-3 record. They are led by freshman Joe Romer with a 26 ppg average. Recently the team has been slowed by injury and illness, as they have .been forced to play without guards Fred Eisman (fractured wrist) and Brian Ferguson (flu). Both of these players had been starting until their misfortune. SPORTS Scott Wy'koH On Sports As the old saying goes, there . is often more to the job than meets the eye. Ask Union Heckey coach Charlie Morrison and Dutchman Basketball mentor Bill Scanlon, they'll tell you about it. In addition to their game and practice respon- sibilities they must also must burn the candle from both ends as the recruiting season coin- cides with their teams' respective campaigns. Recently, a couple of hard working students have emerged on the Dutchmen winter sports scene and made Mr. Morrison's and Mr. Scanlon's jobs a whole lot easier. These two messiahs are named Mark Van Buren and\ John Rauscher. Mark is team manager for Bill Scanlon's hoop squad while John holds down the same responsibilities for Morrison's Skating Dutchmen. Neither were recruited while in high school but both contribute as much to their squads as any of the players we read about on the sport pages each week. and handles dining arrangements. At practices Mark helps run drills and make sure the workout doesn't drag. Mark comes from a rich athletic background as his father is the athletic director at Ichabod Crane High School. During Van Buren's prep days he participated on the soccer, basketball and track teams. Both student's contributions are strictly on a volunteer basis. Even though they are not compensated for their im- portant services, they never miss a single practice or game. You might never hear about the two in a coach's post game comments or in a game day preview but their job is as important as any man in uniform. Hats off to these two unheralded workers and let's hope there're more where they came from. · ahead and were dealt a owns an 11-9 record .... With his fast break lay-up at the 8:31 mark of the first half vs. Nor- wich, Kevin Bartlett became just the 8th player in Union history (and second this season) to surpass the 1,000 point plateau. Bartlett has ac- cumulated 1,012 career pts., good for 7th place on the all- time scoring list .... Another current Dutchman on that same list is Ken D'Orazio, who ranks John Rauscher, known to most around Achilles Rink as J. R., has been manager of the Union hockey team for the past two years. The senior history major had been a staunch Garnet hockey supporter during his first two years in Schenectady and last year decided to play an active role in the program. Rauscher. ap- proached Morrison with the idea and it was the best idea he had heard in a long time. The Nassua, NY native plays an active role at both practices and during games. During practices he keeps a clock on drills and makes sure the workouts keep moving. When the skaters hit the road Johh doubles as a traveling secretary and equipment manager. Tourney Time: Lynne Barta ·s ladies basketball team wraps up its season this weekend as they play host to the 6th Annual Capital District Women's Basketball Tournament. The gals from RPI and St. Rose meet in Friday night's first game that will be followed by the Dutchwomen and Albany State at 8:00 p.m. The con- solation gets underway at 6:00 p.m. Saturday night while the championship will be decided beginning at 8:00 p.m. The Garnet women have had a tough go of it this winter as they come into the weekend finale with a 2- 13 record. Those numbers are a bit deceiving as Barta's squad has lost five of their games by a combined total of 12 points. This year's tournament boasts quite a collection of talent. Leading the, Garnet gals all year has been the tandem of Becky Clemente and Patty Ricl:iards. -Both have been averaging close to 15 points a contest while Becky was named to the All- Tournament team one year· ago. The lady Engineers will be bringing quite a scorer of their won to the Memorial Fieldhouse this weekend. Her name is Colleen · Greaney and she recently became the school's all-time scorer as she went over the 1000 pt. plateau. Albany State is the favorite coming in as they have only fallen on defeat twice this year. IIi IIi (]J '- 0.. +- ... 0 u V') ).. .0 0 ... 0 .c a. WRUC Presents Union Hqckey Wednesday at Hamilton· 7 p.m. II Final game before ECAC Seeds are announced\ Stay with WR UC Sports All the way to the finals Sr. co-Captain Jamie Kn,ight crashes the net in the Skating Dut- chmi:m's 8-3 win over WiWams. Knight scored three shorthanded goals. r----.-~-NCAA Division Ill Hockey Poll---------. 1. Bemid.ii St. (MN) ...........•.... : . ................ 60 2. RIT ........ .' .......•..................•..•....... 56 3. Babson ............................................ 50 3. St. Thomas (MN) .................................. 50 S.UNION ........................................... 41 5. Gustavus Adolh!Js ... , .............................. 41 7. Plattsburgh .............•...................•..... 36 8. St. Mary's (MN) .............•............. ···' ...... 31 8. Salem St ................ , ......................... 31 10. Mankato St. (MN) ...........................• , .... 20 Rauscher's hoop counterpart, Mark Van Burep., is in his rookie season at the Memorial Fieldhouse: A fresl!man, Mark ventured to the top floor of the Alumni Gym and Scanlon's. office early in the fall to inquire into the possibility of helping the team out in the winter. Mark's visit caught Scanlon a bit off guard. The Dutchmen were minus a manager the past few years and Van Buren's inquiry was received with open and grateful arms. During games the Kinder Hook, NY TONITE SLAPSHOTS St. Valentine's Day Party Featuring Union's NET WEIGHT & Drink Specials

CONCORDIENS/S, February 14, 1985 Page 15 Athlete of the Week By PAUL KURKER Sports Staff Congratulations to Rebecca Clemente of the Women's Varsity Basketball team for garnering Athlete of the Week honors. The 5'6\ junior is the leading scorer fQr the hoop- women, averaging 15.6 points of 20 from the floor and five of six from the charity stripe for 23 per game. In the Dutch women's last three games, Rebecca has had the hot hand. Against the Continentals of Hamilton, Clemente poured in 16 points to .8 0 go along with three assists and -E_ two steals. In the next game 0 against the North Adams State (/) Mohawks, she canned nine out B-ball ~~ •. Continued from page 16 the squads exchanged points, resulting in a 41-41 score with 8:18 left in the game, With the score still knotted, Union mentor Scanlon picked up a technical foul on a highly controversial call. Hartwick seized control of this op- portunity by opening up a six- point lead, 51-45, with 4:09 remaining. This was the biggest lead that either team enjoyed since the early going. The Dutchmen overcame this ad- \'ersity by hanging tough, and eventually Union cut the margin to one, 55-54. on a Ken D'Orazio three-point play with 1:25 showing on the clock. However. they could not pull ahead and were dealt a Rebecca Clemente crushing 57-54 loss at the hands of a 14-5 Hartwick club. Union was led by Ken D'Orazio with a game-high 26 points and 10 rebounds. D'Orazio was followed by guards Tom Beck and Ken Levine with 8 points each. DUTCHMEN NOTES ......... Union currently owns an 11-9 record .... With his fast break lay-up at the 8:31 mark of the first half vs. Nor- wich, Kevin Bartlett became just the 8th player in Union historv (and second this season l to su.rpass the 1,000 point plateau. Bartlett has ac- cumulated 1,012 career pts., good for 7th place on the all- time scoring list .... Another current Dutchman on that same list is Ken D'Orazio, who ranks points. Rebecca continued her exceptional play against New Paltz as she scored 20 points and dished out four assists. As the returning MVP from last year's squad, Rebecca has been counted on heavily and hasn't let anyone down. As a fresh- man, Clemente captured the prestigious Cuttita award as the top freshman female athlete. Rebecca is a math-biology major and a sister of the Delta Gamma sorority. The Dut- chwomen host the sixth annual Capital District Tournament this weekend as they face Albany State at 8 p.m. tomorrow night. Come cheer on Rebecca and The Dutchwomen in their quest for the Capital District title. 5th with 1,157 career point- s .... This season Union has been led in scoring by these two seniors-Bartlett is averaging 18.5 ppg and D'Orazio is hitting for 17.2 ppg .... As a team, the Dutchmen are averaging 70.1 ppg, while giving up 66.0 ppg .... As a team the Dutchmen are averaging 70.1 ppg, while giving up 66.0 ppg .... The JV side of the program sees the junior Dutchmen holding a 5-3 record. They are led by freshman Joe Romer with a 26 ppg average. Recently the team has been slowed by injury and illness, as they have been forced to play without guards Fred Eisman (fractured wrist l and Brian Ferguson t flu l. Both of these players had been starting until their misfortune. WRUC Presents Union Hockey Wednesday at Hamilton .. 7 p.m. /'Final game before ECAC Seeds are announced\ Stay with WRUC Sports All the way to the finals Sr. Co-Captain Jamie Knight crashes the net in the Skating Dut- chmen's 8-3 win over Williams. Knight scored three shorthanded goals. r----NCAA Division Ill Hockey Poll-----. 1. Bemidji St. CMN) .................................. 60 2. RIT .............................................. 56 SPORTS Scott Wykoff On Sports As the old saying goes, there is often more to the job than meets the eye. Ask Union Hockey coach Charlie Morrison and Dutchman Basketball mentor Bill Scanlon, they'll tell you about it. In addition to their game and practice respon- sibilities they must also must burn the candle from both ends as the recruiting season coin- cides with their teams' respective campaigns. Recently, a couple of hard working students have emerged on the Dutchmen winter sports scene and made Mr. Morrison's and Mr. Scanlon's jobs a whole lot easier. These two messiahs are named Mark Van Buren and' John Rauscher. Mark is team manager for Bill Scanlon's hoop squad while John holds down the same responsibilities for Morrison's Skating Dutchmen. Neither were recruited while in high school but both contribute as much to their squads as any of the players we read about on the sport pages each week. John Rauscher, known to most around Achilles Rink as J.R., has been manager of the Union hockey team for the past two years. The senior history major had been a staunch Garnet hockey supporter during his first two years in Schenectady and last year decided to play an active role in the program. Rauscher ap- proached Morrison with the idea and it was the best idea he had heard in a long time. The Nassua, NY native plays an active role at both practices and during games. During practices he keeps a clock on drills and makes sure the workouts keep moving. When the skaters hit the road John doubles as a traveling secretary and equipment manager. Rauscher's hoop counterpart, Mark Van Burep, is in his rookie season at the Memorial Fieldhouse. A freshman, Mark ventured to the top floor of the Alumni Gym and Scanlon's office early in the fall to inquire into the possibility of helping the team out in the winter. Mark's visit caught Scanlon a bit off guard. The Dutc1unen were minus a manager the past few years and Van Buren's inquiry was received with open and grateful arms. During games the Kinder Hook, NY and handles dining arrangements. At practices Mark helps run drills and make sure the workout doesn't drag. Mark comes from a rich athletic background as his father is the athletic director at Ichabod Crane High School. During Van Buren's prep days he participated on the soccer, basketball and track teams. Both student's contributions are strictly on a volunteer basis. Even though they are not compensated for their im- portant services, they never miss a single practice or game. You might never hear about the two in a coach's post game comments or in a game day preview but their job is as important as any man in uniform. Hats off to these two unheralded workers and let's hope there're more where they came from. Tourney Time: Lynne Barta· s ladies ba~ketball team wraps up its season this weekend as they play host to the 6th Annual Capital District Women's Basketball Tournament. The gals from RPI and St. Rose meet in Friday night's first game that will be followed by the Dutchwomen and Albany State at 8: 00 p.m. The con- solation gets underway at 6:00 p.m. Saturday night while the championship will be decided beginning at 8:00 p.m. The Garnet women have had a tough go of it this winter as they come into the weekend finale with a 2- 13 record. Those numbers are a bit deceiving as Barta's squad has lost five of their games by a combined total of 12 points. This year's tournament boasts quite a collection of talent. Leading the Garnet gals all year has been the tandem of Becky Clemente and Patty Richards. Both have been averaging close to 15 points a contest while Becky was named to the All- Tournament team one year ago. The lady Engineers will be bringing quite a scorer of their won to the Memorial Fieldhouse this weekend. Her name is Colleen Greaney and she recently became the school's all-time scorer as she went over the 1000 pt. plateau. Albany State is the favorite coming in as they have only fallen on defeat twice this year. TONITE SLAPSHOTS St. Valentine's Day Party Featuring Union's 3. Babson ........................................... 50 3. St. Thomas CMN) .................................. 50 5.UNION ........................................... 41 5. Gustavus Adolhus .................................. 41 7. Plattsburgh ....................................... 36 8. St. Mary's ( MN) ............................• · ...... 31 8. Salem St .......................................... 31 NET WEIGHT & Drink Specials 10. Mankato St. (MN) ................................. 20

Page16 · CONCORDIENSIS, February 14, 1985 SPORTS Hoopers Stand At 11-9 DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK February 14-Februaqi 20 Thursday 2/14 Women's Swimming, N.Y.S. Meet Friday ~/15 Men's Basketball afRochester 8:00p.m. 6:00p.m., 8:00p.m. By MARK VAN BUREN Sports Sjaff The Union basketball team entered the week knowing that they would have to play good, fundamental basketball in order to. survive. The reason was that they would have to go up against the likes of three capa bie and highly touted teams. The Dutchmen's first encounter was last Wednesday night at Memorial Field House where they faced nationally ranked Albany State, a team that beat Union in their f.irst game of the season, 70..Sl. Albany State came into the game ranked 17th in Div. III polls and sporting a 16-3 record. The game began with neither team grabbing any decisive advantage. However, midway through the first period, the Dutchmen pulled away from a one-point lead, 18-17, thanks to a 10-1 spurt, to stretch their margin to 28-18, as Tom Beck canned a jumper with 7:1'9 remaining before intermission. Albany State countered with a 9- 0 run of their own to pull within one point, 28-27, with 2: 57 left in the half. Union entered the locker room at the half holding onto a slim 33-29 advantage, mainly through the fact that they shot 50 percent from the floor to a 36 percent mark for the Great Danes. Albany State came out of the intermission running off another streak of points, by turning a four-point deficit into a four-point lead, 37- 33. It wasn't until four mlnutes had elapsed in the new period that Union regained its halftime lead, 38-37, thanks to Mike Miller's three-point play. The Great Danes than proceeded to go on still another run, 8-2, in Ol .... ill .0 1:: ctl Q ill ~ ~ >- .0 0 0 .c c. remaining. Pete liosU1e's two free throws gave Albany a four- point lead until Union's Rob Parento cut the margin in half with just 14 ticks of th~ clock left. Union had a chance to tie the game as. Tom Beck was fouled with 11 seconds left, but his first free throw was a little strong and bounced out to an awaiting Albany player. Albany sealed their victory with a couple more free throws, giving them a 63-60 decision. Mike Miller, playing his best ):!arne of the .season, led the Dutclunen with 15 points. He was followed by Kevin Bartlett with 13 points, Tom Beck with 10, and Ken D'Orazio with eight points and 13 rebounds. Union's fate was totally dissimilar Saturday afternoon as they hosted Norwich University. Norwich entered the contest with a 13-8 record, and wins against two teams that had beaten Union already this season. The first half was a Iaugher as Union opened a 17-2 lead and stretched their margin every time they touched the ball. With just over 10 minutes to play in the first half, the Dutchmen held a seventeen point advantage, 27-10. Union big men Kevin Bartlett and Ken D'Orazio led this surge with 16 and 14 first half points respectively. The second half proved to be much the same, as Union remained always at least 25 points ahead. Although they did not play with the same in- tensity as they had in the first period, the Dutchmen were never even slightly threatened by this obviously outmanned Norwich team. When Tim Diemoz connected on a jumper with ?:11 remaining in the Senior Co-Captain Kevin Bartlett (32} takes jump shot from the base I ine as sophomore Ken Levine (11} waits for rebound. gaining a 45-40 lead (their largest of the game). Union would not sit still while this was happening and finally overtook Albany, 50-49, when Kevin Bartlett sank two free throws with 5:32left in the second half. The Dutchmen saw this lead increased to five points, 54-49, when Rob Parento hit a short jumper with 4:13 remaining. This is when the \ ... turning point of the game\ occurred, according to Union coach Bill Scanlon. Albany's Adam Ursprung was fouled as he made a layup and converted the foul shot to cut the Union lead to just a single basket (these were his only points of the half). Dave Adam then made a jumpshot to knot the score at 54 with 2: 48 left. The teams traded hoops,· until Dan Croutier stole the ball and flipped to Dave Adam for an easy basket giving the Danes a lead of 58-56 with just :55 game, it represented Union's greatest margin - 33 points, 80- 47. The Dutchmen fmally ended with an 88-58 victory, in a game that saw every member of the team see considerable playing time. Union, which shOt 52 percent from the field as compared to a dismal 27 per- cent for Norwich, was again led by its two starting seniors, Kevin Bartlett and Ken D'Orazio. Bartlett scored a game-high 23 points, including his 1,000 career point, and D'Orazio contributed 14 points, 14 rebounds, five assists, and four blocked shots. Two players who don't usually contribute heavily to the Union cause, Kurt Fox and Tim Diemoz, responded to their amount of action by scoring 8 an~l9 points respectively. This past Monday night, the Dutchmen travelled to Hart- wick College for a match-up with the nationally ranked Warriors. Hartwick jumped out to an early advantage, 11-4, just 4:30 into the first period. Union fought back and Mike Miller deadlocked the game at 11 when he hit a short jumper in the lane at the U:54 mark. Union grabbed its first lead of the half when Tom Beck connected from 20 feet, giving the Dutchmen a 15-13 margin. The two teams traded baskets for the remainder of the half, and as they left the floor for in- termission, Union enjoyed a 25- 23 advantage. This lead was due to the tough man-to-man defense employed by the Dutch- men throughout most of the first half. This defense limited Hartwick to 38 percent shooting, while Union shot a blistering 57 percent. Ken D'Orazio led the Dutchmen attack with 13 points and 6 rebounds. The second half . started off poorly for Union as they were quickly outscored, 6- 0. The Warriors held their narrow margin until Ken Levine's jumper tied the score 29~29. For the next ten minutes Continued on page 15 Women's Basketball at Union., Capital District Tourney Saturday 2/16 Varsity Hockey vs. North Adams .J. V. Hockey vs. Vermont Academy J.V. Basketball at Hamilton Women's Basketball a·t UAion, COT Women's Swi.m.ming, N .. Y.S.Meet Women's Indoor Track, Union lnv.y Wednesday 2120 Men's Basketball vs. RPI ' Varsity Hockey at Hamilton J.V. Basketball vs. RPI Uhion 8 Union 3 Union 5 Albany St. 63 Union 88 Hartwick 57 NAS80 Hamilton 72 RPI70 Hamilton 81 Utica68 RPI61 Hamilton 39 Utica 54 GARNET SCOREBOARD February 4- February 11 HOCKEY(l3-6-1) MEN'S BASKETBALL (ll-9) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (1-13) WOMEN'S SWIMMING (2-8} MEN'S SWIMMING (1-9) 7:30p.m . 3:30p.m. 6:00p.m. 6:00, a: oo p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 6:00p.m. WiUiams3 BowdoiAl colby2 Union 60 Norwich 58 Union 54 Union 63 Union 53 Unjon 39 Union 15 Union 19 Union 33 Union 30 Union 41 NY Swim Meet Today & Sat By SPORTS STAFF teamed up for the relays, taking first and seconds in the opening and closing events. All in all they were -both fun meets, highlighted by the- continued decrease of best times. The women are looking forward to this week's New York State Championships. The Union women's swim team was away for two meets last week, first to RPI, then a double meet at Utica, also against Hamilton. Though both were team losses, the in- dividuals continue to shine. Trackn1enAt C. D. Meet At RPI, Lynn Hano took a second in the 1000 free, and also competed in the 50 and 100 free. Tricia Bowering also swam the 100 free, placing second there, as well as second in the too· breaststroke. Betsy Boutwell had another great meet, with a first place finish in the 50 free, as well as the 500 free. Both her times were personal bests. Lisa Freed swam well, with a first in the 100 back, as well as the 200 free. Her 200 free time met the State qualifying time in that event. Donna Gardiner dove for the Dutchmen, and also helped out in the end for a first place finish in the final relay. The team ne~t ventured to Utica for another good showing. Betsy lowered her best time in the 500, and swam to a strong first place against the Utica team, a fourth against Hamilton. Trish added in points with a first in the 100 IM, while Jennifer Whalen placed third in the 50 free, against the Utica squad. These also added in as fourths against Hamilton. Finally, Lisa swam well, with a first in the 200 free against both Utica and Hamilton. Everyone By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Coach Russ Ebbets cited lack of depth in the ranks .of the Union track team for their third place finish at the Capital District M'eet at RPI on Friday night. Although Ebbets was looking for a win, the quality performances, two records, and the shutting out of the Siena distance runners gave reason for the Dutchmen coach to be happy. The serious lack of depth cited i~ evident in the seven first places Union got, but was only able to amass 70 points to RPI's 91 and Albany's 82. In the places second through fifth, Union only got 28 points while RPI and Albany accumulated 49 and 58 respectively. Union ·was only able to place more than one competitor in two events. Highest scorer for the Dut- clunen was freshman Wayne Lacy who started off the day by easily winning the pole vault in a school and personal record of 14'3\. He then went on_ to take second and third in the high Union to Host 6th Annual Capital District Women's Basketball Tournament--Feb. 15-16 Union will host the 6th annual Capital District Women's Basketball Tournament tomorrow and Saturday iii the Memorial Fieldhouse, starting at 6 p.m. The 6 p.m. game on Friday will be an exciting contest between RPI and St. Rose. Following at 8 p.m. will be Union taking on the 2nd-ranked team in Division Ill, Albany State. Earlier in the season, Union lost to Albany by 15 points, after having a six point lead at halftime. Union will need your support for this tough opening game. On Saturday, the consojation game will be held at 6 p.m. and the championship game ats p.m. Tickets wi II be on sale at the dqor only for $1.00 with student I. D. Support Your Women's Basketball Team At Union jump and 50 meter hurdles respectively. Finishing off the field events was Scott Remillard who won the shot put but ~ot upset for first in the 35 lb. weight. Good team efforts were turned in for the two mile relay and the distance medley relay. Mike Reed, Jeff Barker, Rob Mohlar, and Winston Britton went thr~mgh the two-mile relay iri 8:13.8 behind a two-minute flat split·run by Reed. Reed also turned in a fine mile split in the medley relay which also in- cludes l-4 mile, 1-2 mile, and 3-4 mile legs. This quartet was rounded out by Mohlar, Steve Black, and Barker. Winston Britton got ~lis second win of the day in the 400 meter race which he won easily in 51.4 seconds. Tying an RPI field house record was Todd Allen who won the 45 meter dash in 5.4 seconds. Finally, in the 3000 meter run, juriior Chris O'Donriell gained a close, hard fought victory with a docking of 8:48.5. Ebbets notes that he was especially happy with this wih because O'Donnell was able to beat all of Siena's best rtmners. The Siena team, known in recent years in the Capital District for their distance runners was held to fifteen points overall on Friday night. SUPPORT UNION ·SPORTS!

p.m. p.m. p.m. p.rn. p.m. 1 by2 n 60 h 58 54 63 19 best New eet the cott ~put 35 ~ere ~lay. Rob the in- his 400 sily odd ~ter ~PY eir to (\' -.• ( { ,_ r -:''; ,\ \ \\'- -· . CXIV; No. 14 .... (]) .0 :;:) .... <.D 'C > 10 Cl >- .0 0 .... 0 .c 0.. Schenectady, New York Bulk Rate U.S. Postage Paid Permi~No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 February 21, 1985 Buckley Reveals Campaign Tricks By AARON TOFFLER less constructive things like, Staff \arguing over the color of On Wednesday night, bumper stickers.\ February 13th at 8:30 p.m. in For those of us who regard the Old Chapel, the first in a her job as a glamorous and series of four lectures in the powerful one, she reminded us \Chester A. Arthur Centennial that the consulting pusiness is a Lecture Series\ was given. The cyclical one and \unless you lecture was entitled \Political consider North Dakota an Advertising and Modern e~otic place, it is certainly not Campaigns\ and the speaker glamorous.\ After touching on was Jill Buckley, president of what a media consultant doesn't Jill Buckley Associates, the do, Buckley elaborated on what company which produced the her job really does entail. Care~r panel members, David Dickenson, Susan FitzGibbon and Pam McMurray discussed their i ob.s at the recent Career Development Center sponsored panel discussion. Democratic response to the \A one day sale.\ This is how State of the Union address in Buckley described the process 1984. of designing a political cam- Liberal Arts Job Search: Professor Faye Dudden of the paign. Her company would go history department started the into a campaign, use what in- evening with some amusing formation they had on the area S . u· f ld d comments on Union's most and formulate a \message t . · . : t· · · · · · . · · · • . .noteworthy alum, Chester strategy\ for the.campaign. \A . ·ra egtes; '_··n· '0 ; .. -e·· . ·----;;~:~; ~~~-~d 'guns who walk into a By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief On Monday, Feb. 18, Union;s Career Development Center sponsored a panel for liberal arts majors in the Banquet Room, Carnegie Hall, at 4 p.m. Three speakers discussed their jobs and career changes: Pam McMurray, group manager for the advertising and public relations firm of Gray Strayton International; David Dicken- son, brand manager for Johnson and Johnson; and Susan FitzGibbon, manager of sales training for AT&T. McMurray, who graduated with a B.A. in English from Connepticut Colleg~, began the lecture. At Connecticut, she got involved with the school's radio station. From there she went on to Boston University's school of communication and acquired a · master's degree in broadcast . jow·nalism. W}lile there, she volunteered as an intern at WEEI, a local radio station. This led her to a job as a news writer and then an assignment editor for WEEI for a total of four years. Upon leaving WEEI, she obtained a job at the Massachusetts governor's. press office for four years. This position was fast paced and required a lot of time and committment. McMurray then moved on to Gray Strayton International, a high technology public relationS and advertising company. \The best way to use your liberal arts education in any one of those (McMurray's) fields is to do a lot of writing and a lot of reading. because those are 'the two skills that I have found have been most beneficial to me as I have gotten into both the radio station and moved into the public relations end of things,\ said McMurray. \People are constantly demanding that you write quickly, that you put your thoughts into words, that you be able to conceive of a public relations program or do some crisis management for a company that needs public relations in a very quick way,\ added McMurray. knowledge. David Dickenson, a Union graduate with a major in in- dustrial economics, was next to speak. He began his career in the Proctor and Gamble sales department. Dickenson gave \three words of wisdom\ about his career path. campaign, tum turkeys into Tom Selleck and put them into the Senate.\ People with just public relations and journalism degrees do not have the wide background of a liberal arts · student that is necessary for a job in public relations or radio, noted McMurray. She stated that Gray Strayton International tends to hire people who have had inm ternships in journalism or public relations. The emphasis is on writing well and writing to a deadline; word processing capability is also a plus along with other computer language .... (]) .0 :;:) .... (..!) 'C ·::; 10 Cl >- .0 ~ .c c. First, \the decision you make following graduation is not life or death; you will not die if you make the wrong decision. There is a chance in your life to make changes and to adjust to that and define them.\ Second, \there is nothing wrong with prioritizing per- sonal goals as well as career goals.\ Third, \in pursuing a career, I think you need to find your inner strength; you must try to · Continued on page 3 Arthur. Referring to him as, \one of those presidents bet- ween Lincoln and Roosevelt.'' Dudden further illustrated his obscurity by quoting a common refrain among his friends at the time,\ My G-d, Chet Arthur, .president?\ When Chester Arthur had been sufficiently roasted, Miss Buckley took the podium. Buc}!:ley began her talk by telling us what media con- sultants do not do. \We are not\ she exclaimed, ''hired guns who walk into a campaign, turn turkeys into Tom Selleck and put them into the Senate.\ Much of their time is spent on Freshman. Rob Pareuto ducks into limousine on his way to a hot date with sophomore Gigi Giordano care of Un1on's bookstore Valentine sweetheart contest. · ''Excellence At Union'' *~pages six a.nd seven-* -Jill Buckley media ·consultant works with people from the campaign. The process of f.ormulating a c~mpaign is a cooperative effort because as much as I can know about North Dakota, I could never understand it like someone from North Dakota.\ Being aware of your audience is an important quality in a lecturer and, with this in mind, Buckley commented that, ''There is something inherently crazy about the process. That's why we try to get college kids who think the idea is exciting and don't mind sleeping on floors.\ Running a political campaign has changed a great deal since the early 70's, when Buckley entered the field. At that time, the local advertising agency did most of the political ad- vertising. Promotion of a candidate was then more general, whereas now the trend is towards specialization. . The biggest c~ange, however, 1s probably m the use of television in a political cam- paign. \You used to be able to get more TV time. The viewer either had to watch our guy or turn off the TV. The amount of information available to voters is more limited now because a 30 second spot is all we can buy. In most areas you cannot buy 60 seconds for political ad- vertising.\ The TV has other drawbacks ,, At the local Congressional level, there is between $3 and $5 thousand dollars to spend on a commercial. \However people don't differentiate between your commercial and Charmins commercial who spent ten times more to produce it.\ As long as these advertisements Continued on page 3

Page2 . CONCORDIENSJS, February 21, 1985 Group Fights Alcoholism .... ~ ::l .... 0 \0 > Ill Cl >- ..0 0 - 0 .J::. 0. Hugh Foley, Visiting Assistant Professor of Psychology, hopes to encourage more students to become psychology majors. College Greets Professor Foley By JOANNE McANDREWS Staff Hugh J. Foley, Visiting Assistant Professor of Psychology, hopes to attract more students to major in psychology. Stated Foley, \In conjunction with my colleagues in the psychology department, I hope to convince students that the psychology program here at Union is a strong one.\ Professor Foley received a B.A. degree from St. John Fisher College in 1971. He continued his education at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, where he earned Master's and Ph.D degrees, and served as a teaching assistant in the psychology department. Foley is teaching Psychology 10- A First Course in Psychology, and Psychology 15- Introduction to Experimental Psychology, this term and will teach Psychology 44- Advanced Experimental Psychology and Psychology 20- Statistical Methods in Psychology, during spring term. effortlessly.\ Foley also has conducted research with his wife, who is a psychology professor at Skidmore College. He commented that Union students are fairly comparable in motivation and intelligence to students at other schools at which he has taught. However, Foley observed that fewer students at Union are interested in psychology as a major. This brings a different mix in the classroom--sometimes up to half of the students in Foley's classes at Union have been non- psychology majors. Foley hopes that the newly formed Psychology Club, of which he is the advisor, will help to make the psychology major a more attractive one to students. Foley has mixed feelings about the ten-week term. · He thinks that it is very fast paced- many of his students majoring in science or engineering are bogged down with work from their science courses (problems, labs, projects, computer programs, etc.) and find it difficult to complete the reading assignments for their psychology courses and end up completing the reading during the week preceding an exam. By GAYLE ROSENFELD Editor-in-Chief On Saturday, Feb. 16, Siena College held its first symposium on alcohol education organized py the National Siena Chaoter of BACCHUS (Boost Alcohol Consciousness Concerning the health of University Students). ApproxUnately 100 area college student affairs administrators, residence counselors, dor- mitory officers, student ac- tivities administrators, and student leaders attended this conference at Siena. Union was represented by seventeen in- terested participants: eleven students and six ad- ministrators. Colleges present included, among others, Siena, Union, RPI, Russell Sage, the Junior College of Albany, the College of St. Rose, and Skid- more. The seminar lasted from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30p.m. The conference was basically split up into five different talks: \Education; the Myths and Facts About Alcohol and Alcoholism\; ''What Should a Campus Alcohol Education Program Offer?\; keynote speaker John R. Harder, counsel to the New York State Division of Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse; ''More for Administrators: Voluntary and Involuntary Support Groups for Students with an Alcohol Problem\ and \More for Students: Is There a Problem on Our Campus? A True Story\; and \Pulling it All Together: Planning Events for Your Campus\. The first topic was discussed by three members of SPARC (St. Peter's Alcoholism Rehabilitation Center) .. A questionnair~ was distributed (see box) and the audience was asked to answer it. The SPARC members also gave the following working definitions of alcoholism: \Alcoholism is an addictive disease or disease of dependency, characterized by physical and psychological dependence on alcohol and increased physiological toleranceto it. Alcoholism is not a matter of what you drink, how often you drink, or how much you drink. Alcoholism is defined by what happens to you· when you drink.\ Alcoholism has a cause ( possibly genetic), and can be treated. However, there is no cure to alcoholism; there is no such thing as a reformed alcoholic. He or she is either a recovering or recovered alcoholic. Steps toward treatment must include the aicohofic' s recognition of the following: that there is a problem and that he or she is an alcoholic. Recovering alcoholics go through a term of denial where they will not admit that there is a problem to a stage of ac- ceptance where they learn to see -themselves as alcoholics. There is very little one can do \Alcoholism · is not a matter of . • .how much you drink. Alcoholism is defined by what happens to you when you drink.\ -SP ARC definition for an alcoholic, noted the SPARC members. Support groups are available for both the alcoholic and his or her family, however. The worst thing to do is to lecture the alcoholic; \know it is the disease you are dealing with and not the person,\ said one SPARC member. Covering up for the alcoholic does not help him or her either; the alcoholic must face the repercussions of his or her drinking. Also, not drinking while the alcoholic is around is not helpful: \The other person has to learn to live in a society where other people· are drinking,\ said a SPARC member. The SPARC people also noted that the college environment is conducive to alcoholism. However, \you cannot stop another person from drinking,\ said a SP ARC member; \alcoholics will drink anywhere whether a friend is there or not.\ The second lecture, \What Investments in Athletics ... Should a Campus Alcohol Education ProgramOffer,\ was discussed by two residence counselors from SUNY, Co.bleskill. That campus also has a BACCHUS chapter. Cobleskill has a tighter grip on student drinking than the coUeges that attended the symposium. On that campus, no signs boasting happy hours or beer bashes are allowed. Mass mailings that are not addressed properly are discarded by the residence people. Also, Cobleskill hires professional bartenders so that students are not the ones selling the alcohol. Cobleskill's chapter distributes literature on alcohol on the campus as well. Cobleskill says it is not promoting prohibition but· rather ''responsible drinking.\ At the \More for Students. Is There a Problem on Our Campus? A True Story\ lec- ture, two recovering alcoholics discussed their fight against alcoholism. In the last discussion, \Pullingit All Together,\ some of the colleges in attendance discussed their ways of. dealing with drinking. Obviously, each college is different so the solution for one college is not necessarily beneficial for another school. However,. RPI has instituted the \designated driver\ system. In this program, one person is to remain sober for the n1ght while he drives his friends to drinking establishments. It is hoped that this might prevent alcohol-related car accidents. At schools such as th,e College of St. Rose, it has been found that cooperation between the alcohol awarene~s group and the college's food. service (the operator of the campus pub) has proved beneficial. The symposium itself had some information to offer to everyone who attended. With more communication with other campuses on alcohol awareness, area colleges may be able to make their student bodies more aware of what \responsible drinking\ actually entails. He would ultimately like to get computers integrated into psychology courses; there is a computer room presently being developed in the psycholgy building for this purpose. Using these resources, Foley hopes to offer courses that demonstrate possible computer applications in behavioral sciences. Foley is currently conducting research having to do with frequency perception-how well people can keep track of dif- ferent events. He explained, \I am studying how w~ll . people take in information as well as what things they can learn Foley would like to see a movement towards lab courses in psychology, but he would be reluctant to teach ··them if the students did not get extra course credit for labs, as he believes students should. Campuses Don't Benefit In his spare time Foley plays basketball with faculty and students, enjoys reading, and works with compy.ters. Union welcomes Professor Foley and wishes him an enjoyable and successful stay at Union. . ALCOHOL QUIZ · (CPS) - Contrary to some campus sports boosters' claim that heavy investment in' athletics helps the entire college, winning athletic teams do not help universities bring in more money from alumni or PURPOSE: People often have mistaken beliefs about alcohol use and its effects. Drinking is so much a part of our culture that people find it hard to view liquor, wine, and beer as drugs. This activity will indicate how much you know about how alcohol affects the body and behavior. True of False 1. Alcohol is correctly classified as a drug. . . 2. After a cocktail party a person is pepped up because alcohol in small amounts is a stimulant. 3. Alcohol causes death by overstimulating the nerve cells to exhaustion. 4. Alcohol i& absorbed into the system and digested in the same way food is. 5. Alcoho~ has no nutritional value. 6. Alcob<>l has caloric value and can be used like a foodstuff to produce energy in the body. 7. The \morning-after\ headache from alcohol can be avoided by eating high levels of car- bohydrates the night before. 8. Drinking black coffee speeds the sobering-up process. 9. One becomes intoxicated faster on rum or gin than on bourb6n. 10. One cocktail is not likely to greatly impair driving skills. 11. Blood alcohol level of .15% or above is considered legal intoxication in any state in the U.S. 12. An obese 250-pound individual should be able to \hold his liquor\ better than a muscular in- dividual ofthe same weight. 13. At a cold football game it makes sense to drink alcohol. 14. An unborn child is not affected by its mother's consumption of alcohol. 15. Alcohol is an aphrodisiac. 16. Alcohol's direct effect on the liver is the main cause of the high incidence of cirrhosis among alcoholics. 17. Social drinking is the first step towards alcoholism.. . . 18. Alcoholics tend to follow a general pattern of behavior on their way to alcoholism. 19. Personality disturbance is a basic reason for the development of alcoholism. 20. There is no cure for alcoholism. -answers on page 3 businesses, a researcher has concluded after combining 12. studies of the issue. University of Nevada at Las Vegas professor James Frey says all the studies indicate successful athletic teams never increase-and often reduce- contributions to an institution. Frey's conclusions, sum- marized in an article in the January issue of Currents, published by tpe Council for the Advancement and Support of Education, provide new am- munition for critics of in- tercollegiate athletic programs that do not pay for themselves. Frey, an associate sociology professor, acknowledges some winning teams help athletic departments raise money, but not other parts of the school. \Most observers tacitly accept the belief that big time athletic programs are partly justified because ,they boost fundraising,\ Frey notes. \It's time we realized that just isn't so.\ The studies also show that \an institution that concentrates the bulk of its effort on raising money for athletics will proba:bly not raise as much as it could for other programs,\ he writes. ''By the same token, strategiesthat use athletics as a vehicle to raise monies for academic purposes are also unlikely to be successful,\ he adds. Most college administrators contacted by CPS seem to agree. University of Pennsylvania officials say their fund drive was no more successful in the two years before its football team won or shared two con- secutive Ivy League cham- pionships than in the two after. \I'd rather have the team winning because that's one less excuse for not giving,\ Steve Derby, the director of alumni giving, says. \But in terms of what prompts people to give, it just doesn't seem to make that. much difference.\ Contributions to the school's athletic department fund drive, however, have jumped sub- stantially. Notre Dame officials agree. Notre Dame's flagging football fortunes-its team has won only five more games than it has lost over the past four seasons- haven't affected donations at all, development director Tom Bloom says. And asking Notre Dame football fans who are not alumni for money has never worked out well, spokesman Richard Conklin adds. \Football may be . the only thing they know about this place, but they treat us like a Continued on page 5

Y, ~r. er o, al yS ~s e r CONCORDIENSIS, February 21, 1985 Page3 Forum Freezes Budgets By FRANKLIN SCHNEIDER Staff The Student Forum met this past Monday, February 17. The discussion covered numerous old issues as well as the in- troduction of some new ideas. President Steve Benson started the meeting off by announcing the formation of several new sub-committees of the Forum. ''Last term I felt we accomplished a lot,\ stated Benson. \Although this term has had somewhat of a lull, I wish to change the situation, and continue the success of last term~ Six project committees were announced, with two Formn members assigned to each committee. The first committee will help raise student involvement in the Wednesday afternoon colloquia scheduled to begin next term (The Minerva Committee's porposal). Another committee is in- vestigati:ng the possibility of evening colloquia in which members of Forum funded clubs would hold a special presentation. The Forum would provide the public relations for the event. Another committee will be composing a questionnaire, mainly to gauge student input on academic issues relevant to the Academic Mfairs Council (AAC). A fourth committee will try to improve interaction between faculty and students. _ The fifth committee will be working on a Formn newsletter, \Chtonicle\ for the student body. Lastly, a sixth committee will be working with the Admissions Office. They will be sending out letters from the Forum to ac- cepted prospective students. As mentioned before, two Forwn members were assigned to each of the committees. The focus of the meeting then turned to the committee reports. Sophomore Representative Julie Mountain provided the Student Affairs Jacqueline Trescott, reporter for \The- Washington Post,\ will be a Woodrow Wilson Foundation Visiting Fellow at · Union College Feb. 25 to March h meeting with students and faculty, and speaking to various classes. Trescott writes for the Style Section of ' 1 The Washington Post\ and formerly worked for \The Washington Star.\ She also has taught and served as director for the Summer Program for Minority Jour- nalists at the University of California, Berkeley. Trescott is a graduate of St. Bonaventure University and has taken graduate courses towards . a masters degree in American Civilization at New York University. She has received awards from the National Association for ·alack Jour- nalists, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the Frederick Douglas Award of the University of the District of Columbia, among others, and was named Journalist of the Year by the Capitol Press Club in1979. The Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow program allows suc- cessful men and women from business, public service and other professions to be placed on the campuses of small liberal arts colleges for a week of intensive dialogue with students and faculty. Council (SAC) report. At their last meeting the SAC met with Anne Seemann of the Schaffer Library to discuss the ''social problem\ of the library .. Currently there exists problems due to the littering of popcorn in the library and the noise- problem in the library's lobby. In reaction to this, the SAC met with Jan Grey. to try to provide an alternative social locale for students. complete one track for graduation. A survey will most likely be taken of the students in · order to refine the proposed system. \The AAC wants to make sure the Liberal Learning system of the college accomplishes what it was set out to do,\ com- mented Megarian. \They are not trying to move to more requirements, just to attain their goal.\ After the announcement of upcoming Alumni Represen- tative Elections (this Friday), Vice President for Finance Brian Lanx gave the Finance Continued on Page 16 Vice President for Administration, Sue Brand has reported to the Forum that six clubs' budgets have been frozen. Their solution is \Chet's Place,\ a cafe type establish- ment which would be located in the Banquet Room. Chet's Place, which would be open Sunday, Monday, and Wed- ne:::;day, would feature light snacks such as bagels, donuts, and coffee. It is scheduled to start Sunday, February 24. Hours will be 8-12 p.m. Sunday and Wednesday, and 8:30-12 on Mondays. Media Consultant Visits: Vice President for Promotion Secrets Told Administration Sue Brand gave the Committee on Committee (CoC) report. Club status reports were due this past Friday. All reports were received except reports from six clubs, who have now had their budgets frozen. Those six clubs are: Outing Club, B.L.A.S., Circle K, Ski Club, International Relations, and Mountebanks. The budgets of these clubs will be unfrozen upon receipt of the reports. Academic Affairs Representative Tof!l Megarian reported on the AAC's ac- tivities. The AAC has recently approved a new course: ConUnuedfrompage 1 are seen back to back, people don't distinguish. For this reason, the Republicans this year \took political advertising towards the use of visual imagery and emotion.\ It is becoming more and more like commercial advertising with \Reagan and white picket fences and everyone happy. It makes your heart pound and you feel terrific.\ The highlight of the evening came when Buckley showed some o( the commercials her firm produced. The first was a retort to a mudslinging commercial that was shown by a Senator's op- ponent. It showed a farmer refuting all the cha'rges while pitching hay. Finally, as he tosses a forkful of hay at the camera, he says of the op- ponents unfair charges, \He calls it politics. Around here, we call it something else.\ Campaign Commercials The last commercial involved the Congressional race in Michigan between Carl Levin, the incumbent, and Jack · Lousman. \Levin was a good Congressman but people didn't know what he did in Congress. We figured it was too late to tell them now so we concentrated on his good public image. \Luckily for Levin's cam- paign, someone mailed them a tape of a speech Lousman once gave in Toyota Hall, Japan. In this speech, which appeared in a Carl Levin for Congress commercial in Michigan (Detroit), Lousman admits, \I have an investment in this hall myself. Back at home, I have a Toyota in my garage.\ Knowing your audience is an important quality in a lecturer. Sociology 54-Qualitative Social Research Methods. Also, the AAC is continuing to get a grant from the Loose Foundation; -a foundation which provides salary for a professor for five years, and possibly an ad- ditional three. Speakers Discuss Careers The AAC i~ hoping to get the money in order to establish a \Senior Preceptorial,'' subtitle \The Moral Uses of Knowledge.'' Tentatively the preceptorial would consist of a seminar term followed by the writing of some sort of term paper. Megarian then showed a rough outline of the proposed liberal learning track system. The displayed ·outline consisted of five, five-course tracks. Each student would be required to Continued from page 1 look into yourself and find out what you do best, what you find comfortable doing.\ · Upon graduation, Dickenson got a job with Proctor and Gamble as a district salesman of Folger's coffee. This job required an ability to work with people and gave Dickenson a sense of maturity. ' After six months, Dickenson left Proctor and Gamble and returned to Schenectady. He took a job in admissions at Union for two years, in which he learned a sense of respon- sibility. While at Union, Dickenson Answers to Alcohol Quiz (from page 2) 1-T 2-T 3-F 4-F 5-T 6-T 7-F 8-F 9-F 10-T 11-T 12-F 13-F 14-F 15-F 16-F 17-T 18-T 19-F 20-T The English Department is pleased to announce that distinguished Irish novelist and short story writer William Trevor will give two readings on Tuesday, February 21. At 3:30 in the Humanities Lounge he will read from his autobiography; at8:00 in the Hale House Lower Lounge he will read from current fiction Author of more than a dozen books including Fools of Fortune, Other People's Worlds, Lovers of Their Time, The Children of Dynmouth, Angels at the Ritz, Mr. Trevor has been praised as \one of our best living writers\ by Graham Lord in Sunday Express. Both r-eadings are free and open to the public. took the GMAT for the second time, received a substantially higher score and found himself at Northwestern's school of management where he acquired his MBA. After a year at Northwestern, Dickenson worked as a con- sultant for a Boston advertising firm for three months. After this summer ''break,'' he finished up his second year at Northwestern with an interest in brand management. Dickenson later got a job as a brand manager with Johnson and Johnson, through Nor- thwestern' s recruiting program. Dickenson has found that the MBA is necessary in the business world today especially since so many people have this degree: the MBA is vital if one wishes to be the decision maker. in a company. Nevertheless, \it is experience first and the business school second, most of the time,\ in a marketing career. However, a liberal arts degree can aid a person in thinking logically, a prereql:li.site for working out business problems. Susan FitzGibbon, , who graduated Union as an English major, spoke last. While at Union, she worked at WRUC. FitGibbon stressed, as did McMurray, the importance of reading and writing. Through Union's recruitment program, she secured a job with AT&T. She moved around within the state where she could move up within the company. At this tiine, she is a manager of sales training for AT&T. She is presently considering applying to business schools; a promotion in her company would necessitate this. However, FitzGibbon is glad she did not go right to busine~s school after Union because now she knows what fields she wishes to study within business. Overall, the three panelists stressed the importance of writing and reading. The liberal arts major lends itself to many fields, but one must be willing to take that first job, in a long line of jobs, that will come to define ones career path. Results of last week's blood drive- GOAL: 245 PRODUCTIVE UNITS: 240 '- Cll .!l •:::> '- ~· ~ > ro Cl >- .!l 0 ..... 0 .!: Q_

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS; fehruarjl21, 1985 ---------------------------~ I \Hair. 'today, gone tomorrow\ I I· PERMANENT HAIR REMOVAL . I I We use ·the all·new ~hortwave INSTANTRON electrolysis equ1pment, feafunng and prov1dmg the best most I comfortable treatment for the removal of unwanted'ho1r on the FACE. ARMS, ·LEGS and BODY I * FREECONSULTATION* FREE DEMONSTRATION* FREE BROCHURE ON REQUEST* I I . . . I I FREE TREATMENT ! 1 and 20% OFF ON ANY FUTURE 1 I TREATMENTS WITHtN 30 DAYS! I I I New·Paliuts only, whet~ad·is prestnted on initial visit at onelocat. lon only. Vali.d thru :3{2/85 II CC21 . 1 ~· ALICE A. BAKER, INC. I I · Est. 1972 Graduate of Kree Institute * Member of N. Y .E. A., A.E.A. and the Guild! I I •.. 127 Canal Square, Schenectady 382-0087 I I 363 CENTRAL AVE., ALBANY, N.Y. 12206 462-5678 I ---------------------------~ RESTAURANT AND BAR ~Ill Ill WRUC at. 1 f•·' 1 nu• ''The Students'' The Area's Top Ba·nd playing 9 p.m.-1 a.m. Special: $lice Teas 501 Hattie St. 393-0594 Prepare For TRIVIA rganize your team NOW! Starts Sunday, Feb. 17 Also Feb. 24& Mar. 3 B p.m. to 11 p.m. The Rock-N-Roll Pizza Pub PRESENTS This Week's Special BUYA LARGE OR SMALL· PIZZA GETA · . • . · .. II Topp1ng Free •• To all fraternities, sororities, dorms and ·other large groups-- we offer the following special throughout this term. Order .six pizzas at least 24 hours in advance and receive a seventh free! ATTENTION! Dutchman's reservations will be taken from 4:30-8:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday ONLY!! NO exceptions will be made. Join us for Heard Only on WRUC89.7FM T -Shirt Special!! ''MILLER NIGHT'' • T -Shirts from Winter Carnival are now available at a reduced cost. Only $3 .. 0011 An even better offer--$4.50 for a Mug and a T-Shirt! Available in the Student Activities Office • ................ FILM SERIES A comparison between films of four diflerent decades: TONIGHT February 21 Klute February 28 Looking For Mr. Goodbar All At 9:00 in 55016 FREE Sponsored by Women's Network & We-men's Commission in the Dutch Hollow Pub Friday, Feb. 22nd from l Q:OO p.m.-closing *soc Tacos* * Beer·Specials * * Free Prize Giveaway * * Hats, T-Shirts, Posters * sponsored by Miller Brewing Co. and DeCrescentes Distributor +~•++~+~+~L----------------------~~~-~ ... ~--~--~ .. ~ ... ~ .. ~.~ .. ~.~ .. ------~=--- Ia dl SE bJ re az dE nE 0: or to AI to af AI Cc cu Ur th• RE ye va ac Co pr• sa: Ya the ( of dor flu• per the cor sch E de' Ma rev gril ye~ ex1 dor sta: \ hel: thil thU;

CONCORDIENSIS, February 21,1985 PageS '\ --Alumni ~ep Statements- Midoneck Shari Midoneck When I sat down to write my last statement I could not decide whether to be funny or serious, so I just decided to be brief. These past few years as your representative, in some forin or another, have taught me a great deal about the college and its needs. I have grown attached to Union, and I do not want my only remaining tie to _the college to be a yearly check to the Annual Fund. Therefore, I want to go on representing you, even after we graduate, as your Alumni Representative. · Peter Mohr Twice each year, the Alumni Council meets to discuss current topics of interest to Union, to provide suggestions to the administration, and to plan ReUnion. Since my freshman ye~r, I have participated in a variety of activities. These activities have provided me with a background wb.ich I would enjoy applying to a position on the Alumni Council. · Mohr The organization which has provided me with the most information on life at Union is the Planning and Priorities Group. As a member of this committee far the past two ·years, I have become familiar with the renovations to Car- negie Hall and Altunni Gym- nasium as well as with the College budget. This committee is currently examining methods of improving Union's academic quality. I would enjoy providing input on this topic as a member of the Alumni Council. As a writer and editor for Concordiensis, I have increased my ·awareness of these and other issues. As a Gatesman and as CoChairperson of the Homecoming Committee, I have become acquainted with the people and activities of the .A.dinissions and AJuruni Offices. Through my ·activities, and the many people I have met, I have developed a sense of the Sports Success Is Not Helpful Continued from page 2 professional team,\ Conklin says. \You cheer for the Yankees, but you don't send them a check.\ Conklin says the percentage of Notre Dame alumni making donations to their alma mater fluctuates between 45 . and 55 percent each year, but he says the changes cannot be correlated to the success of the school's athletic teams. Even Boston College development director Dennis Macro, whose school has reversed a long tradition of gridiron mediocrity in recent years and gained national exposure, does not expect donations to increase sub- stantially. \In the long run it's going to help us because it's one more thing to make someone proud of this institution,\ Macro says. 6ee, T!ieRe'& NOT MUCH LeFT To CUT. \But the effect is ever so subtle. Someone might write us a. check this time and not even know why he did it.\ · But Brigham Young University officials dissent. Development director Lee Gibbons called Frey's article \misleading\ largelybecause it includes what he calls \stale and outdated material.\ Dale McCann, who has directed BYU's athletic boQster program for the past 10 years, is convinced winning teams boost donations for both athletic programs and institutions as a whole. \Giving is an emotional thing,\ McCann says. \We need their attention, and a winning team resurrects pride and in- terest in a school.\ McCann acknowledges, however, that he has no em- pirical evidence indicating there is a correlation. future needs .@f the Callege, such as improved library facilities. I would greatly appreciate your vote on February 22 so that I might remain active in working toward a stronger Union. Thank you. Nagler Sandy Nagler We have been told for many years that these; our college days, would be the best years of our lives. With these drawing to a close, in but a few months, are we destined to travel downhill from here forward? I, for one, seriously doubt this and would like to help insure that the Class of 1985 does not suffer such a demise. Serving as Alumni Council Rep would enable me to do so. The Altunni Council Representative serves as a liaison between her class and the college. Our graduation does not· necessarily imply: disassociation and I would welcome the opportunity to keep both association and communicqtion active among our class ~ the next !ive years. In the past four years I have shown my concern, dedication, and interest to and in Union in many way. I served on my Dorm CouncH for two years; I have been an Orientation Advisor for the past three years; I have worked on Parents Weekend and Homecoming since my Fresh- man year and I served as Co- Chairperson this fall for Homecoming. I played a quintessential role in this fall's Pep Rally in conjuncti<m with my co-chairing both Homecom.ing and the Social Committee. I also helped to reinstitute an old tradition- Winter Carnival-just a few weeks ago. I have also taken an active role in community service groups {Big Brother- Big Sister), athletics (Crew and Intrmurals) and I am also a member of a sarority. I have proven that I am capable to handling both cornn1itrnent nad responsibility and I would like to continue my involvement by serving as Alumni Council Rep. for the Class of 1985. I thank you for your time and urge you to vote on Feb. 22. Let's enjoy the next.few months in Schenectady together and please remember to VOTE SANDY NAGLER ALUMNI COUNCIL REPRESENTAT- IVE ON FEBRUARY 22. Kathi Zuckerman CLASS of 1984! ! ! My name is KATHI ZUCKERMAN (KraziK to a:ll of you WRUC listeners), and I am running for one of the two positions of our class representative to the Alumni Council. I'm not a politician, so I can't promise you the world, but I can say I'll do my best to represent the interests of our awesome class of 1'985 on the Alumni Council and to plan our reunions. I know even though we're graduating, most of us are still concerned with campus issues, such as the fate of the Skellar and its early closing h()urs (save the Skellar!! ), the effects of the new student center construction, and dormitory conditions. I'll do my best to relay our concerns to the Alumni Council. Zuckerman We may be going out into the \great beyond\ (though most of us have no idea where that is yet! ! ) , but our caring for Union College will live on! So remember to vote on Friday, in Carnegie, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., for a Union'er who has been involved in almost every aspect of this school, from WRUC, to Homecoming, to Junior Reunion, to Circle K, but more important than that someone who cares! To do my best is what I promise to the class of 1985, if elected, for Union and for our class of 1985! ... KATHI ZUCKERMAN ... Proud mem- ber and Skellar frequenter of the class of1985 ... Cast your vote tomorrow! · Union CoUege Leukemia Super Swim Classic . The Uhion College Super Swim Classic for Leukemia will be held at the Alumni Gym Pool on Sunday, Februar:y 24/ between the hours of 12 noon and 6 p.m. Anyone may participate by requesting pledge donations per lap from friends and relatives. Prizes will be awarded on the basis of pledges collected. A Grand Prize of a Portable Color TV wi II be presented to the top money raiser and a Keg of Beer will be given to the fraternity or sorority that brings in the most money. Other prizes include: a Stereo Radio Cassette--1st Prize/ a Cordless Telephone··-2nd Prize/ Binoculars--3rd Prize, a Sportsman 5-Function LCD Watch with Velcro Zip Up Wallet to each swimmer who collects $80 and over, and a T-Shirt to each swimmer who collects $30 and over. Union College students are urged to participate in this event. It is not a race or test of swimming ability. The idea is to complete as many laps as possible to raise money for a good cause--to help fight leukemia; the number one medical killer of children which still kills eight times more adults. Leukemia ,is a disease of the blood-forming tissues: the bone marrow, lymph nodes and the spleen. The cause of leukemia remains unknown. However, the effectiveness of recently developed treatment methods and steady advances in research bring us closer every day to finding the cause or causes of leukemia and related disorders and probable cures. Leukemia and its allied diseases, the lymphomas. multiple myeloma and Hodgkin/s disease, will strike approximately 65,000 Americans this year and will cause the death of an additional 38,000 persons. Proceeds from the Swim will benefit the Leukemia Society of America. This non-profit organization depends upon voluntary contributions to fund leukemia research, assist leukemia patients and their families and to educate medical professionals, as well as the general public. Those interested may pi.ck up sponsor sheets at the 11 Cage' 1 in the Alumni Gym or at the box office in the Student union. For further information,call the Leukemia Society at 438-3583. This event is also being held at RPI on the same day and at the same time. It is sponsored by the Inter-Fraternity and Pan- Hellenic Councils at both schools in an effort to pose a friendly competition to raise funds.

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Febn~ary 21,1985 ' ~ FEATURES EXCELLENCE AT Criticizing Curriculum >- .::,{. II) 0 .... Ill ell c: Ill ..., :>. .a ,g 0 .c c. Thomas D'Andrea is Vice President of Academic Affairs at Union. By MARCY BURSTINER The association of American Colleges (AAC) has just completed a 47-page rep(!)rt on the quality of the colleg.e curricuhun, reported the New York Times last week. The Times quoted the report as having found \evidence of decline and devaluation in c o 11 e g e c u r r lc u lu m s everywhere.\ The study found that colleges across the nation place more emphasis on faculty research than quality teaching curriculums are shaped mor~ by \fads and fashions\ than by reason and experience, they neglect foreign languages and writing skills, and the courses do not keep up with the pace of scientific and technological advancements .. In addition, the article cited the study as criticizing college Important Changes Sought By DAVID FITZGERALD Features Editor One of the major participants in the present move to improve the quality of education at Union is Thomas D'Andrea, Vice President for Academic Affairs. Dr. D'Andrea feels that Union is in a good position to look at itself and to make im- provements. Since Union is a member of a very small select group of Liberal Arts colleges that offer engineering, it is not only in a good position because it is a good school but also because it is a rather unique school. Over the last four years since D'Andrea has arrived at Union there have been a number of improvements made in the areas of admissions. recognition of Union by foun: dations, faculty salaries, and athletic. policies. The question that faced the administration in light of the improvements already made, is if now was the time to make further changes or to weather the the next few difficult years. It is D'Andrea's opinion that Union should always be seeking to improve itself and that now is the time to move on to an even higher degree of excellence. The new program to improve the quality of education consists of two major focuses. '!'he first focus is to reduce the teaching load of the faculty and the second is to increase the size of the faculty. The teaching load is higher at Union than at in- stitutions that we like to com- pare ourselves with. With a lighter teaching load faculty members will have more time to spend with students and to devote to scholarly research. acadeffiic departments will be added. The Academic Affairs Council will review the needs of the departments and will have major decision in where the new faculty members will be placed. D'Andrea feels that each department \should assess its needs seriously\. This is not a situation where departments \need to protect their turf\. Taking away faculty from departments is not uppermost in the administration's minds. Tough decisions have to be made but with the aid of the faculty it is hoped that new faculty allocation will go well. Part of providing a quality education is finding students that will contribute the most to the college and will benefit from it. D'Andrea feels that the college has a very solid ap- plicant pool. Since D'Andrea arrived, the \yield\, the ratio of students that actually attend from those accepted has risen significantly. SAT scores are 560 verbal and 630 math. Seventy-five percent of Union students are in the top fifth of their graduating class, there is a 60-40 male-female ratio, and forty percent receive financial aid. For Union to receive around 3,000 solid applicants like the ones just described it must offer a very solid education. D'Andrea feels that another area that must be examined is the library. \Space is our biggest problem.\ D'Andrea does not feel that claims that the library is inadequit are fair. \You can go into any library and not find the materials that you want on the shelves.\ President Morris has asked D'Andrea and Ann Seemann to look at other libraries and see where ours could be improved. Recently the Association of American Colleges released. a report that was very critical of u.-s. college curriculums. \It is a very serious indictment.\ According to D'Andrea, our Liberal Learning program \may not be perfect but does have distribution.'' The college will seriously look at the Liberal Learning program. Some ideas to improve it include instituting a a Senior Preceptorial or Senior Essay. \More and more specialization has occured and the concern is that we have become too professionally oriented.'' For years colleges have criticized high schools for producing less qualified students. D'Andrea feels that secondary schools have in the past looked towards the college for leadership. Colleges by looking at their own curriculums can again assume leadership. D'Andrea feels that the next five years are going to be ex- citing at Union. Higher education is going to require sacrifices but \private college will not disappear, some will close but there will always be a place for an institution of Union's quality.\ ''Excellence at Union'' How do you feel about it? Concordiensis welcomes feedback. Address all com- mentaries to Box 2577. majors for lacking the necessary field depth that they were originally created for. The study suggested as .a guide to improving the quality of a curriculum the fOllowing nine-point plan: 1. Inquiry, abstract logical thinking, critical analysis. 2. Literacy: writing, reading, speaking, listening. 3. Understanding numerical data. 4. Historical consciousness. 5. Science. · 6. Values 7. Art. 8. International and multicultural experiences. 9. Study in depth of a discipline. In analyzing the programs of 11 institutions, the findings were not differentiated between two· and four year colleges, levels of competitiveness, or the size of the institution. A reexamination of the_ Union curriculum is in· teresting in light of these fin- dings. General Curriculum According to Prefessor Terry Weiner, chair of the Sociology Department, one problem stems from the absence of course requirements, such as statistics and social research that were in the 50s and 60s see~ as vital to an undergraduate education. There is a \con- . tinuing deficiency\ in this regard that may indeed be a result of an attempt to cater to students interests,. In the growing competition for student enrollment among colleges, institutions may attempt to attract new students . by wat~ring down degree reqmrements. Professor Robert Schaefer chair of the chemistry depart: ment, remarked that he does not believe that Union has watered down its requirements at all. Speaking from 35 years of experience at Union, he claimed \I don't think there is a dif- ference between students today and students 35 years ago,\ nor is there a difference in what Union requires. Majors at Union Weiner agreed with the AAC report in that the problem lies with the core curriculum. Majors, he believes, are a \smorgasborg\ in which students choose two from column A and two from Column B. It is not necessarily a question of whether the courses should or should not be offered, but rather that there should be a more logical structure in the categorization of such courses. When, within a major, there is too diverse a selection of courses, so that there is little link between them, one begins to wonder what the purpose of the major really is. This problem stems from a confusion in college administrations as to what they feel students should be taught and should learn. In this diversity of course selec- tion, stuqents often come out with a broad selection in a major but without the necessary depth and specialization. . Schaefer too agreed that some majors in Union could be more structured. In the math, science, and engineering majors, the student is advanced to higher levels of learning as the major progresses. In many of the social science and humanities majors, on the other hand, the student must take several introductory courses and from then on all the courses are taught at the same level. Liberal Learning The other major criticism in the study was that although core curriculums were too internally diverse,_ the general curriculum failed to provide for the essential diversity in its requirements and students are, as a result, lacking in writing, foreign languages, literature, and scientific and technological backgrounds. At Union these requirements, and most of the categories in the nine-point plan, are supposed to be satisfied through the liberal learning requirements in which studenta must take twelve courses from among seven categories. There is wide disagreement over whether or not the liberal learning system does in fact satisfy the broad background needed for entry into a professional career. Professor William Daniels, assistant dean for undergrapuate studies, explained that since \there are no hard and fixed answers\ people will always disagree on what is necessary and correct. He suggested that studies on. college institutions examine what the college offers and requires, but one must also look at what the students are in fact selecting. Years ago a college education was completely structured and has evolved since then to allow for greater flexibility. Now there are complaints that it is not structured enough and so the evolutionary process will continue. There must always be some committee . in a college responsible for examining and reexamining the curriculum to dedde what changes can and should be made. The Academic Affairs Council is currently doing just that, he explained. Weiner remarked that the liberal learning- program does in fact satisfy many of the requirements in the study's nine-point plan. I!! creating the program \we're ahead of the game\ he said. The program \is a reasonably decent at- tempt\ to insure that all un- dergraduates would get the Continued on page 8 According to D'Andrea there is a study being conducted in which the faculty of each department is attempting to assess its needs in terms of where the departments are lacking in offerings and in terms of the demands placed upon the departments due to the number of students that take courses in each department. D'Andrea believes that presently the \pressure point- s\ those departments that may not have enough faculty members, are in engineering, computer science, math, physics, chemistry, and economics. A faculty member may also be added in \non- pressure point\ departments where a certain area of study is not well represented by a faculty member. No new '' CAMPUS QUOTES \The AAC wants to make sure the Liberal Lear:bing system of the College accomplishes what it was set out to do. They are not trying to move more requirements, just to attain their goal.\ -Tom Megerian, AAC representative on the Student Forum \We are not hired .guns who walk into a campaign, turn turkeys into Tom Selleck and put them into the Senate.\ -Jill Buckley, president of Jill Buckley Associates who spoke at Union last Wednesday \T~is year teams know who we are and what we're capable of domg. But as far as we're concerned, we have experience ?ow, w~ have the talent, we have the confidence, and we're JUSt g?mg to go out and gfJ for it. I'll be disappointed with anythmg less than a championship.\ , -Curtis Cole, right wing forward on the Skating Dutchmen . \Honest in.troductory courses in science would be better ~beral learnmg courses than 'liberal learning courses' for bberallearning.\ -Robert Schaefer, chair of the Chemistry Department .. ,, ( I s e c s

