,1 \ ' ' \ ., >, i I l) ,, ' . y r, r I i ;.: !.; ) I l '•, ~~ i' :·~ ., ~ I .. l... Cl) ..0 :::l l... (!) Cl) > til 0 >- ..0 0 .... 0 .s:: CXV.No. 1 ?/ .·/' ...... .,. ·· i' I I 1 t· ~ ,, ' ! ,· /. Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~aid Pennit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 September 26, 1985 Fraternity Rush Changes By DAVE GULLIVER Staff This year fraternity rush will include a new feature wnich breaks fmm Union tradition but follows a national trend. Two weeks of the fall term rush period will be designated a \dry rush.\ During this time, no fraternity function ·will serve aicohol. as an objective for the 1984-85 school year. Their ideas also included a more formal rush in order to give greater prestige to the fraternity system. courage freshmen to become involved in the fraternal system. In no way wUl the convocation serve the interests of an individual fraternity. 3. Following this convoca~ion, the IFC will commence a two week formal rush. This two week period will take the form of a \dry\ rush. Each fraternity will be strongly encouraged to have one or more dry rush functions. \Dry\ is defined as a function at which no alcohol is served. Q. The dry rush concept has become popular among national fraternities and has been discus_sed at Union since 1984. Fonner Interfraternity Council President Roger Harris '85 and Current IFC President Pat Vernich '86 and former IFC Vice President Dan Rabinovitz '86 were, in the words of Assistant Dean of Students Robert J. Massa, the \prime movers\ on the dry rush plan. Vernich and Rabinovitz at- tended conferences in Rochester and Boston on. the benefits of dry rush, Which is currently in operation at over 120 colleges. A first draft of the plan was a,uthored by Sullivan; a second draft was written by Sullivan, Vernich, Rabinovitz, and Bob Van.Yoris '85, and finally, a third revision was approved by a 9~2 vote at the 4. The IFC fully supports the theory that each individual freshman should look at three I FC President Pat·verriichfeels that the fraternities will cooperate fraternity adviser Chris witiTthe Dry Rush. Sullivan '84 identified dry rush Curriculum Panel Convenes By J-1\N BARAN News Editor ' On Tuesday, September 24, a panel discussion group ad- dressed one of this year's most , outstanding issues, the question of \General Education: Core Curricuium versus Distribution requirements.'' Although the meeting was not widely publiciz,ed, response to the issue was strong enough to fill SS115 with concerned students and faculty. . . Last year the Academic Affairs Council (AAC)· created a subcouncil on· the curriculum with the primary purpose of reviewing general education at Union, in particular, the Liberal Learning Program. The initial part of the review process will consist of three panel discussions. The -fh·st panel discussion held last Tuesday looked at Union's general education program. · A · second panel on pre-professionalism will be held on October 9 at 11:30 a.m. Possible topics for the third panel include discussion of whether a science requirement should have a laboratory. The purpose of these panel discu$sions, according to the subcouncil, is \to engage the representative to· the · AAC)., Professor Frank · Gado, Professor Jan Ludwig, Professor Dwight Phaup, Professor Jim Underwood and Professor Ken Schick. This panel addressed, \Core Curriculum versus a D•stribution System.\ According to the memorandum circUlated by the AAC subcouncil before the panel discussion, a core curriculum is in its strictest form \a set of courses which every undergraduate must take.\ More broadly, it iden-· · tifies \systems in which some freedom of choice . is possible but whose categories are defined in terms of content rather than methodology, moqes of thought or skills.\ A distribution system, on the other hand, establishes broad ranges of categories from which specific courses are chosen or 1 'they define categories in terms of methodology, modes of thought, or skills.\ Prior to Tuesday's panel discussion, each member of the panel submitted a position paper which was given to every member of the panel as w.ell as to most of the faculty. The first part of the meeting allowed The purpose of the panel discussion is \to engage the campus by introducing the issues and by sketching alternatives in the broadest of terms.\ · . -AAC SubCouncll campus by introducing the issues and by sketching alternatives in the broadest of terms.\ A more detailed analysis of the issues raised by these panels will be carried out· in informal .groups, held by . various departments, divisions, and the students.· on Curriculum ·- .-1 - • .;: •. ~ a general education· program, Union's in particular, ·sqrfac-ed. For ·example, Professor Jan Ludwig felt . that Union's program did not sufficiently stress the value of general education. He added that wider academic interests need to be encouraged. Professor Dwight Phaup added to this discussion. He is concerned that \Union has raised the standards, but at the same time made it possible for students to avoid the way of learning that we have in mind.\ Phaup also recommended that Union eliminate those courses which are specifically designed for non-majors. He realizedlhat this could cause problems, particularly in engineering because it will be hard to arrange courses that both the major and the non-major can take. · Continued on page 6 · :April 3, 1985 IFC meeting. The following eight points established by the IFC will guide fraternity rush at Union for the coming year: 1. Informal fraternity rush will commence at the beginning ofthe fall term. Informal rush is defined as any activities in- cluding freshmen except: a prearranged party with 10 or more freshmen where the freshmen are the primary guests at the party. 2. This informal period will last approximately two weeks. At the beginning of the third weelt of the term there will be a convocation for all freshmen. This convocation will serve as an information session for fresh· men. The convocation will illustrate the benefits of the fraternity system as a whole. Speakers (i.e. President, Deans, IFC officers), will en- or more houses before making his decision as to what fraternity he wishes to pledge. (Therefore, no undue pressure shall be placed on a freslunan during this period which could slgnifkantly alter his op- \ ~ - portunity to investigate the offerings of_another house.) 5. After tne two week formal rush, an unstructured rush will commence. This will allow each house to undertake any traditional or unique activities that have personalized their own rush. 6. No bids will be offered by any house · until the seventh week of the term. This will insure an. equal opportunity for each house to select from the freshmen pool. 7. The Bid Box will be placed .in the dining hall at the beginning of the eighth wee~ .. bids shall be accepted until the Bid Box results have been discussed by the IFC. 8. The IFC recognizes the party policy passed by the 1983- 84 IFC as the specific ·set of Continued on page 2 The members of TuesdaY's panel discussion group on general edpcation included Katherine K~11veney (student each panel member to give a presentation on his position paper. These presentations clarified points raised in the papers, summarized the papers, and in some cases presented new suggestions. The second part allowed the panel members to debate the issues presented. Finally, there was time for audience participation. In the four-minute presen- tations, several concerns about There's still a line to the m·ailroom . , . It has just moved to another location--Richmond, of all places.

Pagel CONCORDIENSJS, September 26, /985 I.. C!i .0 ::) .... <.!> Qj > co Cl >- .0 0 .... 0 .c Q, Concerned seniors know it's never too early to use the Career Development Center's resources. Career Programs Available By CARRIECERRONE Staff recruiting obtained jobs as opposed to 20-22 percent The CDC stresses that it is never too early for students to start thinking about their professional futures. Juniors are especially encouraged to select a career \target area\ to explore, prepare a complete yet concise resume, and to par- ticipate in informational in- terviews where valuable course advice and hiring practices may be snared. Such a session could enable students to better articulate both their reasons for interest in a profession and their personal qualifications. The Career Development Center (CDC) offers Union students a vast array of programs which can sup- plement the exploration of various professions, develop- ment of essential job search skills, and the ultimate quest for a full-time position or graduate school. In order to discover what occupational . areas suit a particular student's interests, the CDC suggests participation in career observation days, career panels, information interviews, and the alumni network offerings. These programs aid students of all classes in establishing con- nections with alumni in the work force who may offer ad- vice on how to \break-in\ to a profession;· This valuable in- formation concerning options in a particular field can lead to summer jobs, internships, and perhaps full-time employment. The career festival to be held on Wednesday, October 9, from 11:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the Field House, offers a unique opportunity for students to speak with potential employers and to learn what qualities are expected of prospective ap- plicants. According to the Associate Director of the CDC, Pat Matteo, these \untraditional\ means of conducting a job search are an integral part of the pursuit since 70-80 percent of all available positions are not advertised. On-campus recruiting, although not extremely ef- fective when relied upon as a sole resource, is a traditionally popular component of the graduate school-job hunt campaign. Union students tend to fare better than the national average when recruiting results are analyzed. Roughly 37 percent of Union students who participated in on-campus nationwide. Those interested in off- campus recruiting in Boston on January 17 and-or New York City on January 27 (non- technical majors) are required to attend a brief orientation meeting on Thursday, October 17, at 7 p.m. or on Friday, October 18 at 4 p.m. Since technical employers are more likely to seek employees than non-technical firms, it has become imperative for students with non-science backgrounds to launch a more extensive search. The CDC suggests researching \hidden\ or lower- profile businesses. Company literature is abundant in the Center, easily accessible, and conveniently organized by region and-or profession. The Career Development Center's staff and resources are .available to all students, but it is up to each student to take advantage of counseling ser- vic,s, workshops, and programs to forward his or her own professional goals. The Minerva Hour Oct 2 Oct. 9 Oct. 16 Oct 2) Oct. JO Nov.6 Nov. 13 Fall Schedule STANLEY PAYNE, Professor of Modern European History at the UnoverSity of WiJconsin. IS the author of Falangt: A History of Spanish Fascrsm. Polur<J and tb. Military in Mod~rn Spain. Franco's Spain. Th• Spanish Rtvo/uti<m. and A History of Spain and Portugal. PANEL DISCUSSION ON PREPROFESSIONALISM, the second panel discu.,ion of I he fall about the curriculum. JOHN STALLWORTIIY, Anderson Professor of English Literatu~ al Cornell University. has translated lhc poe: try of Paslernak; wruten se~r•l crilical studocs; edited K>erolanlholoaies; and wriuen many volumes of poetry. Hia bioaraphy Wil/r<d Ow~n won the Duff Cooper Memorial Prize. The W.H. Smilh and Son Lirenocy Award, and !he E.M. Fontcr Award. all impon1nt British prizes. • BARRETT HAZELTINE, Professor of En11m...,ringand Associale DeAn of the College al Brown Unlversily, is a rcgis·.ertd profcssiona.l.engineer; 1 uthor of Introduction ro Elrrtronrc Cir<uits and Application:;; recipie:~t of Western Elcctrie\s award for cxceliencc in instruetoen; and former president of the Providence Ensinecrin& Society. He has a special interest in tcchnoloJiy coui'1CJ ror non--cnain«rs. . HOWARD SIMONS, curator of Harvard Univcnity\s Nienutn Foundation proaram for journalists, was ma.~~aain& editor of 1M Washin&ron 1tnt durina that newspaper\• covera&e or the Watcrpte affair !hal won a Pulilzer Prize in 1974. He is a 19SI padwtte ofUnion. RICHARD K. NELSON, a leadinaauthority on the cultural ecoiO&Y o( nonltem Nali~ Amcrica111, has pubUsbed four boob about Ealdmot and Athabaakan lndisns u well as numerous monoaraphland miiMllm pt•blicalion&. He currently is complctin&-•·oerieo of ethnosraphk: filma oa Atbabaakan Indian adapllliiMII for PBS. · CREGG MARYNlAK, CIICCUtlve 'lllce praideo.t of the S.,.ce Studieo lllllitute In l'rincetoo., N.J •• hu tauaJstatthc Adler Planetarium and Natural History Museum in Chiatao.and lectu~ at uni~nities throu~houtthc world. Wednesdays, 11:30 a.m. For infonnation call370-6101 CAREER OPPORTUNITIES SCIENTIFIC & ENGINEERING ATIENTION ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS The largest electronics laboratory in the Air Force will be interviewing on campus 11 OCT 1985 for civilian employment opportunities. If you would like to work in some of the notion's finest research and development facilities, consider joining the RADC team. ROME AIR DEVELOPMENT CENTER GRIFFIS$ AIR FORCE BASE, NEW YORK Rush Altered Continued from page 1 guidelines that will apply to all rush functions for the fraternity system. The IFC reserves the right to investigate any incident which it deems as contrary to the provisions in this policy. Enforcement Voluntary Enforcement of the plan is, officially, the responsibility of the IFC vice president, the recently elected Paul Flanagan '86, but Dean Massa views enforcement as a more voluntary matter. He ex- plained, \It depends an two things-the good faith of the rush chairmen and on a 'resentment factor'.\ If the dry rush is violated by a particular fraternity and is discovered, other fraternities will resent that violation and can bring the matter before the IFC. The IFC can impose fines or social restrictions on any fraternity in violation of rush policy. That should not be a problem, however, according to Vernich. ''All the houses are enthusiastic and co-operative about it. They realize that it is for the good of the system,\ Vernich said. \After incidents at Colby, Amherst and other colleges, fraternities need to call at- tention to their good points, to the fact that there is more to fraternity life than drinking.\ Understanding the significance of the dry rush to the public is the key to the acceptance of the new plan. Dean Massa noted that although. students may think that a dry period is un- necessary, the policy is an important statement from the fraternities to the public. Both Vernich and Massa, howeve.r, emphasize the benefits to the student. ''Primarily,'' Massa said, \it will force students to look at the individuals in the fraternity and force the brothers to look clearly at prospective pledges. The question for a potential pledge is :why to join a par- ticular hoUse. Clearer answers will be obtained when we have functions such as sporting events or dinners. An important feature of the rush policy that may 'be overlooked in the debate over \dryness\ is the emphasis on having freshmen visit several houses, . and hopes that no unreasonable pressure will be placed on them. This step toward formality, Vernich says, is definitely not a sign of a completely formal rush in the future; ''We have 17 houses on campus, and it would be very difficult to have a tush like that .of the sororities.\ Rather, the greater formality reiterates the idea of mak~g a clear, in- formed choice, which is the goal of the new policy. Policy of 'i'ranisition In another way, the new policy may be regarded as a transition. The period of dry rush covers only two weeks of ten in fall term, and it will be followed by a return to \traditional activities.\ However, since the ratification of the rush policy, New York State's legal drinking age rose to twenty-one, effective Dec. 1, 1985. The plan that is now only a small step may be required by law and become a permanent institution by the next Union rush period of September 1986. I.. <11 .0 :::> I.. <.!> <11 > 10 Cl >- .0 -E 0 .J:: Q, The hazards of life on a college campus .. REHEARSALS UNDERWAY for Union College Chamber ORCHESTRA Every Tuesday 7:45-9:00 Memorial Chapel *STRING PLAYERS* *WELCOME* For more in~ormation call or visit Prof. Hilary Tann Arts 320, tel. 6202. ·. . t: • .. • .. ( l

Page2 CONCORDIENSJS, September 26, /985 .... (]) .Q ::> .... (!) (]) > <0 0 Concerned seniors know it's never too early to use the Career Development Center's resources. Career Programs Available By CARRIE CERRONE Staff The Career Development Center (CDC) offers Union students a vast array of programs which can sup- plement the exploration of various professions, develop- ment of essential job search skills, and the ultimate quest for a full-time position or graduate school. In order to discover what occupational areas suit a particular student's interests, the CDC suggests participation in career observation days, career panels, information interviews, and the alumni network offerings. These programs aid students of all classes in establishing con- nections with alumni in the work force who may offer ad- vice on how to \break-in\ to a profession. This valuable in- formation concerning options in a particular field can lead to summer jobs, internships, and perhaps full-time employment. The career festival to be held on Wednesday, October 9, from 11:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the Field House, offers a unique opportunity for students to speak with potential employers and to learn what qualities are expected of prospective ap- plicants. According to the Associate Director of the CDC, Pat Matteo, these \untraditional\ means of conducting a job search are an integral part of the pursuit since 70-80 percent of all available positions are not advertised. On-campus recruiting, although not extremely ef- fective when relied upon as a sole resource, is a traditionally popular component of the graduate school-job hunt campaign. Union students tend to fare better than the national average when recruiting results are analyzed. Roughly 37 percent of Union students who participated in on-campus recruiting obtained jobs as opposed to 20-22 percent nationwide. The CDC stresses that it is never too early for students to start thinking about their professional futures. Juniors are especially encouraged to select a career \target area\ to explore, prepare a complete yet concise resume, and to par- ticipate in informational in- terviews where valuable course advice and hiring practices may be shared. Such a session could enable students to better articulate both their reasons for interest in a profession and their personal qualifications. Those interested in off- campus recruiting in Boston on January 17 and-or New York City on January 27 (non- technical majors) are required to attend a brief orientation meeting on Thursday, October 17, at 7 p.m. or on Friday, October 18 at 4 p.m. Since technical employers are more likely to seek employees than non-technical firms, it has become imperative for students with non-science backgrounds to launch a more extensive search. The CDC suggests researching \hidden\ or lower- profile businesses. Company literature is abundant in the Center, easily accessible, and conveniently organized by region and-or profession. The Career Development Center's staff and resources are available to all students, but it is up to each student to take advantage of counseling ser- vit: \S workshops, and programs to forward his or her own professional goals. The Minerva Hour Oct 2 Ckt 9 Oc< 16 Oc1 !l Oc1 )0 Nov 6 Nov. 13 Fall Schedule STANLEY PAYNE. Professor ol Modern Euro~an Hutory at the UmYers11y of WliConsm, u th( author of Fo/anKt· A H1J1orv of Spanuh Fascum, folmn amJ 1M Mrluary in MoJun Spam. Franco'S Spain. Tht Spamrh R'volutwn and A History of Spam and Portugal PANEL DISCUSSION ON PREPROFESSIONALISM. the ~cond pall<! dtKu~ston o( the fall 11bout the curriculum JOHN STALLWORTIIY, Andc!lon Professor of Enghsh Literature at CorncU Umvrn•ty. h.as transl.o.ttd the poetry of P.astcrnak; wnuen s-everal cnticalllUdJtl; edtted sever~! antholOJIH. 1nd written man)' volumn of poetry. Ht1 bloJraphy Wilfrrd Owm won the Duff Cooper Memorial Pnze, The W.H. Sm1th and Son L1t<rary Award, and the E.M. Fonter Award, all amponant British prize,_ 11 BARREll HAZEL TINE. Profn•or of Enynocnng and AU<>Ciate Dean of the College at Brown Umvcnny, 1s a rcgu ... rrcd pro(euaonal engineer, author or lnuoducllon to Eltctromc CircUIIJ and A.pplicouo~; rcctptcat of Western Elcctnc's award (or ekcc\icncc an anstructacn. and former prest-dcnt of the Providence Engmecnng Society He has a spocctal tnterest 1n tcchnoloay courses (or non--cnamecr~. HOWARD SIMONS, curator of Harvard Umvcn•ty's Nicm.~n FoundAilon proaram for Journalists, was m.IIDI&lnl edttor o( TM l+'asltintton Prut durina that nc..-.p.aper's <:<>vcraac of lh<: Watcrptc affair that won a Pulil~ P~• 1n 1974. He is a 1951 11111duatc of Union. RICHARD X. NELSON, a lcadinaauthority on the cultural eeoiCJtY t>C non hem Native Americant, has pubUsbcd four bo<)J.j about Eakimot olld Athabookao Indians u well as numerous monoaraphs and ml*\tm pt•blkalioM. He currently is completinaa ocrico or ct!tnoaraphi<: films oa Atbakskan lndlan.iidapliiiOIIJ ror PBS. CREGG MARYNIAX, cxec:utlve viet president of the Space Studica IMitulc II• PriACctoo, NJ., hat ta11jht at the Adler Planetarium and NAtural Hastory Museum in Chicallld and lccsutcd at univcmtics throulhout the world. Wednesdays, 11:30 a.m. For information call370-6101 CAREER OPPORTUNITIES SCIENTIFIC & ENGINEERING AITENTION ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS The largest elec tron•cs laboratory 1n the A1r Force wdl be mterviewing on campus ~ l .c ~ l98S for Civilian employment opportunities. If you would like to work in some of the notion's finest research and development facilities. consider joining the RADC team ROME AIR DEVELOPMENT CENTER GRIFFISS AIR FORCE BASE, NEW YORK Rush Altered Continued from page 1 guidelines that will apply to all rush functions for the fraternity system. The IFC reserves the right to investigate any incident which it deems as contrary to the provisions in this policy. Enforcement Voluntary Enforcement of the plan is, officiaHy, the responsibility of the IFC vice president, the recently elected Paul Flanagan '86, but DP:Ul \fassa \'iews enforcement as a more voluntary matter. He ex- plained, \It depends on two things-the good faith of the rush chairmen and on a 'resentment factor'.\ If the dry rush is violated by a particular fraternity and is discovered, other fraternities will resent that violation and can bring the matter before the IFC. The IFC can impose fines or social restrictions on any fraternity in violation of rush policy. That should not be a problem, however, according to Vernich. \All the houses are enthusiastic and co-operative about it. They realize that it is for the good of the system,\ Vernich said. ''After incidents at Colby, Amherst and other colleges, fraternities need to call at- tention to their good points, to the fact that there is more to fraternity life than drinking.\ Understanding the significance of the dry rush to the public is the key to the acceptance of the new plan. Dean Massa noted that although students may think that a dry period is un- necessary, the policy is an important statement from the fraternities to the public. Both Vernich and Massa, however, emphasize the benefits to the student. \PrimarHy Massa said, \it will force students to look at the individ1:1als in the fraternity and force the brothers to look clearly at prospective pledges. The question for a potential pledge is why to join a par- ticular hoHse. Clearer answers will be obtained when we have functions such as sporting events or dinners. An important feature of the rush policy that may be overlooked in the debate uver \drymss·· is the empha.si.s ou having freshmen visit several houses, and hopes that no unreasonable pressure will be placed on them. This step toward formality, Vernich says, is definitely not a sign of a completely formal rush in the future. \We have 17 houses on campus, and it would be very difficult to have a rush like that of the sororities.\ Rather, the greater formality reiterates the idea of making a clear, in- formed choice, which is the goal of the new policy. Policy of Tranisition In another way, the new policy may be regarded as a transition. The period of dry rush covers only two weeks of ten in fall term, and it will be followed by a return to ''traditional activities.'' However, since the ratification of the rush policy, New York State's legal drinking age rose to twenty-one, effective Dec. 1, 1985. The plan that is now only a small step may be required by law and become a permanent institution by the next Union rush period of September 1986. 1.. <ll .Q ::J .... (!) (]) > <0 0 >- .Q 0 ..... 0 ..c: a. The hazards of life on a college campus. REHEARSALS UNDER WAY for Union College Chamber ORCHESTRA Every Tuesday 7:45-9:00 Memorial Chapel *STRING PLAYERS* *WELCOME* For more information call or visit Prof. Hilary Tann Arts 320, tel. 6202. ..

I • .. . \\;; .. CONCORDIENSIS, Septft,.\\~er. 26, 1985 Page3 Orientation: A Success By JUDY PRICE Staff same time, a social for transfer students was held in the Rathskellat. Orientation· Fall '85, \Getting Sunday morning new students To Know U\ began Saturday attended the second group September 7, initiating the four meeting. FOAs mainly con• days the Orientation Committee ducted this meeting, discussing had begun planning last winter. many aspects of Union's Despite inconveniences due to academic life including campus construction and ex- registration, liberal arts tremely humid weather, requirements, and · in- Orientation for the Class of '89 terde.partmental majors. was a huge success. ~ Students were allowed to ask Freshmen registered questions to prepare them- Saturday morning and received selves for registration. packets containing information The afternoon began with on orientation, class three meetings: \Transition To registration, and Union life. Union\ a meeting for transfer Mothers were given f19wers and students, \A Look at Union's boxes with instructions not to Social Scene\ a-discussion with open untU the ride home. Inside selected RAs, and \Facts About these boxes were tissues and Alcohol So You Can Make notes that read, \Don't cry, Informed Decisions\. At the Mom. We'll take care of your alcohol meeting, Dean Massa baby.\ · commented that the majority of Abusy afternoon began with a on-campus incidents are luncheon in the field house alcohol-related. A short film hosted by President and Mrs. then demonstrated the many Morris. Then, at the President's aspects of alcohol abuse. convocation, Dean of Students, · Afterwards, Dean Massa in- Joseph Mamrnola and Vice troduced Stephen Smith, President D'Andrea joined Executive Director· of the President John Morris in Alcoholism Council of welcoming the class of 1989. Schenectady County (ACSC), Parents and students were who spoke about DWI and the then offered the opportunity to consequences~such as fines- learn about acad·ernics at of being arrested for DWI. Carol Union. · Assistant Dean of Tomlinson, a Registered Nurse Students Robert Massa, and Community .. Education Associate Dean of Director for the ACSC; spoke of Undergraduate Studies, the physical effects of alcohol;' W1lliarn A. Daniels, and drugs, and mixing them. Professor Janet Anderson of the Later that afternoon, at the Chemistry. Department hosted picnic at t_he Girling Center. the student sessioh. Parents hotdogs, hamburgers, soda, could attend discussions on salads and watermelon were Hum a nit i e s , . S c i en c e , served under the pavilion as Engineering, or Social Science. games were played on the field. Immediately following these OAs led their groups through sessions was the President's \Duck Duck, PresMo\ after a Reception in the field house, demonstration by President which allowed students and Morris, Mrs. Morris, and the their. parents th,e opportunity to Orientation Committee. meet;: 'f<,t~U!ty •. :~tlembers,. ad- Orientatiqn groups eventually mihistrat'ors~ and·Presiderit and· . · combined. t'o, form .. ofie~. Iitige Mrs. Morris. ' circle. Students attended their first John Zuk, the emcee of the orientation group meetings event, was then bombarded Saturday afternoon . with oranges meant fo.r a Approximately twenty fresh- version of \Leap Frog\. The men in each group with two Snake Game, a well - known student Orientation Advisors Union College game, went over (OAs) and one Faculty well although not without Orientation Advisor (FOA) confusion. The next game, the discussed the orientation Water Balloon Toss, ended in schedule and life at Union, chaos as everyone threw water while OAs and FOAs answered balloons at rather than to each any questions. ·Meanwhile, other, as the game intended. parents attended meetings That evening, students had concerning Career Develop- the opportunity to meet faculty ment; :Student Life: Transition members casually over dessert To College, or Financial Aid. in Hale House. This was the first After the meetings, students year the ''Dessert and attended a sit-down dinner with Discussio.n'' was offered, and their orientation groups in the the event was very successful. Old Chapel, and a Ben and Janet Keyes, Vice Chairman of Jerry's ice cream social · the Orientation Committee, followed later that evening. believes it was \a good op- Although the ice cream melted, portunity for both students and with the help of WRUC Record faculty to meet in an informal Hop and soda and munchies, the atmosphere before getting into social went over well. At the the classroom. I would like to -o Cll Cll ,_ u. ro !!2 ..J > ..0 0 0 J:: 0. Presider;~t and Mrs. Morris and the Deans relax and enjoy the , Orientation Leaders' deck show. see it as a part of orientation in the future, and I would like to see more of the faculty par- ticipate.\ Students later had a choice between the movie \The Blues Brothers\ or Cabaret. The first act of the Cabaret was Wendy Baer on vocals, accompanied by David Dworkin on piano, playing blues and jazz nwnbers including tunes from ·\Ain't Misbehaving\. The second act featured Wendy Richards on vocals and .Jim Havard on guitar and vocals as they highlighted country tunes from such artists as the Eagles. Monday morning, students Freshmen, O.AS, FOAS and the oc celebrate \Getting to Know U\ had the opportunity to obtain at Orientation '85. Continued on page 6 Renowned Novelist Visits By ANTHONY DUNAIF Staff Carlos Fuentes, Mexico's leading novelist and critic, perhaps one of the greatest living authors, will read from his fiction tonight September 26 at 8:00 p.m. in SS 016 with a reception to follow, in Milano lounge. On Friday, Fuentes will be speaking on \Latin American Literature and the Two Cultures\ at 12:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Fuentes' visit to Union is a part of a series of courses entitled \The United States and the Spanish- speaki?g World: Understanding Twentieth-century Connecti- ons,\ which is made possibly by support from the National Endowment for the Humanities. member of the diplomatic corps. Eight novels by Fuentes have been published in this country: The Death of Artemio Cruz, The Good Conscience, Where the Air Is Clear, A Change of Skin, Aura, Terra Nostra, The Hydra Head, and Distant Relations. In March of 1967, A Change of Skin was awarded the Biblioteca Breve Prize. He was awarded the Romulo Gallegos Prize in Caracas, Venezuela, for Terra Nostra in 1977. This literary award is given once every five years and carries with it a prize of $40,000. In 1984, Fuentes was honored with the National Prize in Literature, Mexico's highest liter~ry award, conferred by President Miguel de la Madrid. Fuentes also writes articles for many European magazines New York Times (OpEd page), and The New York Times Book Review. Fuentes was ambassador to France from Mexico from 1975 to 1977. During 1977, he was the Norman MacColllecturer at St. Catherine's College, Cambridge University; England, and the Virginia Gildersleeve Visiting Professer at Barnard College in New York City. In 1978 he held the Henry Tinker Chair at Columbia University. Fuentes has taught at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, El Colegio Nacional in Mexico, and most recently, at Prin- ceton, Dartmouth, Washington University in St. Louis, and Harvard, where he will be this fall. His newest book, The Old Gringo will be published this fall. Born in 1928, Fuentes spent and his writings have appeared _ his .:early year~. in· Wasl}ington, . . in sueh _Ap:lerica,n. publications D.C., where his father was a . ·as The Nation, Vanity Fair, The All are welcome and in fact urged to attend his lectures. • Games Convention Hosted On October 11th-13th, 1985, an event will take place here at Union such as the school has never before seen. The Union College Gaming Association, (U.C.G.A.), in conjunction with members of the Schenectady Wargarners' Association, will host . the eleventh annual Council of the Five Nations gaming convention. For those who haven't heard of one before, a convention of this sort is, quite simply, a gathering of people with a mutual interest in role-playing, . strategy, wargames, or any related activity, who get together to play those games. Each year, hundreds of local conventions are held across the country, with the largest nationally-recognized ones drawing up to 9,000 people. Our CGnvention, of course, will be much smaller, with an estimated attendance of 150 to 200 people over the two-and-a- half days. But it is in part due to the number of garners attending that Council is being held here. For its first ten years, it took place at the Studio of Bridge and Garnes on State Street, but has now become too large for that site. Following the lead of many like events, a college campus - Union's - was chosen as a new location. The convention has been planned so as to have a minimum impact on the usual activities on campus. A weekend when the football team is away was selected to ease crowding of parking areas, as well as any other possible difficulties caused by two concurrent events. The ac- tiyities will be held up campus, in rooms of the Social Sciences and Humanities Buildings, and in Bailey Hall. Those -in at- tendance have also been asked to avoid the library when moving from one location to another, to avoid disturbing students. Use of the Social Sciences Building will not, however, interfere with the showing of that weekend's movie. All attending the Council will be wearing identification badges, so if you see them walking around, you'll know who they are. All activities will end by 8 P.M. Sunday, allowing the staff to put everything back to normal before classes resume on Monday. What's in it for you? _Plenty. If you enjoy ga~s of any type, or are just curious about the whole phenomenon, you can find out more about your game, or enter in one of the numerous tour- naments. A vast range of games of all sorts exist and at all levels of skill. There will also be an auction of gaming goods, a miniatures painting corn- petition, and showings of classic science fiction films (including the first two episodes of Doctor Who!). The vendor's area is open to the public, with representatives frm Hero Games, Mercury Garnes, Palladium, Armadillo Hobbies, and many others on hand. And, at 8 P.M. Saturday, an always popular and often spectacular event, the finals of the costume judging. So, if you . see people in unusual attire, talking about how tough it is to kill a gorgon, relax and be friendly. Garners are always willing to talk to others about their hobby. The U.C.G.A., Council staff, and all attending are doing their best to make this an enjoyable ex- perience for both the campus community and convention- goers, and all are welcome ~o attend. For more information on t!1e Council of the Five Nations or the U.C.G.A., contact John, Larry, or Toby at 370-6648, or send a message to the U.C.G.A., campus box 2578. And . remember to look for us at the Activities Expo! THE BLOODMOBILE WILL BE AT UNION OCTOBE.R 2, 3 & 4 From 11 :00 · 5:00 in Fox Lounge Call Mrs. Marra at 370-6118 For More Information .

• i ! . CONCORDIENSIS, Septe\ ,~er 26, 1985 Page 3 Orientation: A Success By JUDY PRICE Staff Orientation Fall '85, \Getting To Know U\ began Saturday September 7, initiatiNg the four days the Orientation Committee had begun planning last winter. Despite inconveniences due to campus coNstruction and ex- tremely humid weather, Orientation for the Class of '89 was a huge success. F r e s h me n reg i s te red Saturday morning and received packets containing information on orientation, class registration, and Union life. Mothers were given flowers and boxes with instructioas rwt to open until tne ride horne. Inside these boxes were tissues and notes that read, \Don't cry, Mom. We'll take care of your baby.\ A busy afternoon began with a luncheon in the field house hosted by President and Mrs. Morris. Then, at the President's convocation, Dean of Students, Joseph Mamrnola and Vice President D'Andrea joined President John Morris in welcoming the class of 1989. Parents and students were then offered the opportunity to learn about academics at Union. Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies, William A. Daniels, and Professor Janet Anderson of the Chemistry Department hosted the student session. Parents could attend discussions on Humanities, Science, Engineering, or Social Science. Immediately following these sessions was the President's Reception in the field house, which allowed students and their parents the opportunity to meet faculty members, . ad- ministrators, and President and Mrs. Morris. Students attended their first orientation group meetings Saturday afternoon. Approximately twenty fresh- men in each group with two student Orientation Advisors (0As) and one Faculty Orientation Advisor (FOA) discussed the orientation schedule and life at Union, while OAs and FOAs answered any questions. Meanwhile, parents attended meetings concerning Career Develop- ment, Student Life: Transition To College, or Financial Aid. After the meetings, students attended a sit-down dinner with their orientation groups in the Old Chapel, and a Ben and Jerry's ice cream social followed later that evening. Although the ice cream melted, with the help of WRUC Record Hop and soda and munchies, the social went over well. At the u Q) Q) I.. u.. ro f/l :::i >- .0 0 0 .c 0. same time, a social for transfer students was held in the Rathskellar. Sunday morning new students attended the second group meeting. FOAs mainly con- ducted this meeting, discussing many aspects of Union's academic life including registration, liberal arts requirements, and in- terdepartmental majors. Students were allowed to ask questions to prepare them- selves for registration. The afternoon began with three meetings: \Transition To Union\ a meeting for transfer students, \A Look at Union's Social Scene\ a discussion with selected RAs, and \Facts About Alcohol So You Can Make Informed Decisions\. At the alcohol meeting, Dean Massa commented that the majority of on-campus incidents are alcohol-related. A short film then demonstrated the many aspects of alcohol abuse. Afterwards, Dean Massa in- troduced Stephen Smith, Executive Director of the Alcoholism Council of Schenectady County (ACSC), who spoke about DWI and the consequences-such as fines- of being arrested for DWI. Carol Tomlinson, a Registered Nurse and Community Education Director for the ACSC, spoke of. the physical effects of alcohol; drugs, and mixing them. Later that afternoon, at the picnic at the Girling Center. hotdogs, hamburgers, soda. salads and watermelon were served under the pavilion as games were played on the field. OAs led their groups through \Duck Duck, PresMo\ after a demonstration by President Morris, Mrs. Morris, and the Orientation Committee. Orientation groups eventually combined to form one huge circle. John Zuk, the emcee of the event, was then bombarded with oranges meant for a version of \Leap Frog\. The Snake Game, a well- known Union College gamP, went over well although not without confusion. The next game, the Water Balloon Toss, ended in chaos as everyone threw water balloons at rather than to each other, as the game intended. That evening, students had the opportunity to meet faculty members casually over dessert in Hale House. This was the first year the ''Dessert and Discussion\ was offered, and the event was very successful. Janet Keyes, Vice Chairman of the Orientation Committee, believes it was \a good op- portunity for both students and faculty to meet in an informal atmosphere before getting into the classroom. I would like to President and Mrs. Morris and the Deans relax and enjoy the Orientation Leaders' deck show. see it as a part of orientation in the future, and I would like to see more of the faculty par- ticipate.\ Students later had a choice between the movie \The Blues Brothers\ or Cabaret. The first act of the Cabaret was Wendy Baer on vocals, acc0mpanied by David Dworkin on piano, playing blues and jazz numbers including tunes from ·\Ain't Misbehaving\. The second act featured Wendy Richards on vocals and .Tim Havard on guitar and vocals as they highlighted country tunes from such artists as the Eagles. Monday morning, students had the opportunity to obtain Continued on page 6 Freshmen, OAS, FOAS and the OC celebrate \Getting to Know U\ at Orientation '85. Renowned Novelist Visits By ANTHONY DUNAIF Staff Carlos Fuentes, Mexico's leading novelist and critic, perhaps one of the greatest living authors, will read from his fiction tonight September 26 at 8:00 p.m. in SS 016 with a reception to follow, in Milano lounge. On Friday, Fuentes will be speaking on \Latin American Literature and the Two Cultures\ at 12:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Fuentes' visit to Union is a part of a series of courses entitled \The United States and the Spanish- speaking World: Understanding Twentieth-century Connecti- ons,\ which is made possibly by support from the National Endowment for the Humanities. Born in 1928, Fuentes spent his early years in Washington, D.C., where his father was a member of the diplomatic corps. Eight novels by Fuentes have been published in this country: The Death of Artemio Cruz, The Good Conscience, Where the Air Is Clear, A Change of Skin, Aura, Terra Nostra, The Hydra Head, and Distant Relations. In March of 1967, A Change of Skin was awarded the Biblioteca Breve Prize. He was awarded the Romulo Gallegos Prize in Caracas, Venezuela, for Terra Nostra in 1977. This literary award is given once every five years and carries with it a prize of $40,000. In 1984, Fuentes was honored with the National Prize in Literature, Mexico's highest literary award, conferred by President Miguel de la Madrid. Fuentes also writes articles for many European magazines, and his writings have appeared in such American publications as The Nation, Vanity Fair, The New York Times (OpEd page), and The New York Times Book Review. Fuentes was ambassador to France from Mexico from 1975 to 1977. During 1977, he was the Norman MacColllecturer at St. Catherine's College, Cambridge University, England, and the Virginia Gildersleeve Visiting Professer at Barnard College in New York City. In 1978 he held the Henry Tinker Chair at Columbia University. Fuentes has taught at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, El Colegio Nacional in Mexico, and most recently, at Prin- ceton, Dartmouth, Washington University in St. Louis, and Harvard, where he will be this fall. His newest book, The Old Gringo will be published this fall. All are welcome and in fact urged to attend his lectures. Games Convention Hosted On October 11th-13th, 1985, an event will take place here at Union such as the school has never before seen. The Union College Gaming Association, (U.C.G.A.), in conjunction with members of the Schenectady Wargamers' Association, will host the eleventh annual Council of the Five Nations gaming convention. For those who haven't heard of one before, a convention of this sort is, quite simply, a gathering of people with a mutual interest in role-playing, strategy, wargames, or any related activity, who get together to play those games. Each year, hundreds of local conventions are held across the country, with the largest nationally-recognized ones drawing up to 9,000 people. Our convention, of course, will be much smaller, with an estimated attendance of 150 to 200 people over the two-and-a- half days. But it is in part due to the number of garners attending that Council is being held here. For its first ten years, it took place at the Studio of Bridge and Games on State Street, but has now become too large for that site. Following the lead of many like events, a college campus- Union's- was chosen as a new location. The convention has been planned so as to have a minimum impact on the usual activities on campus. A weekend when the football team is away was selected to ease crowding of parking areas, as well as any other possible difficulties caused by two concurrent events. The ac- tivities will be held up campus, in rooms of the Social Sciences and Humanities Buildings, and in Bailey Hall. Those in at- tendance have also been asked to avoid the library when moving from one location to another, to avoid disturbing students. Use of the Social Sciences Building will not, however, interfere with the showing of that weekend's movie. All attending the Council will be wearing identification badges, so if you see them walking around, you'll know who they are. All activities will end by 8 P.M. Sunday, allowing the staff to put ever)ihing back to normal before classes resume on Monday. What's in it for you? Plenty. If you enjoy gam~s of any type, or are just curious about the whole phenomenon, you can find out more about your game, or enter in one of the numerous tour- naments. A vast range of games of all sorts exist and at all levels of skill. There will also be an auction of gaming goods. a miniatures painting com- petition, and showings of classic science fiction films I including the first two episodes of Doctor Who! l. The vendor's area is open to the public, with representatives frm Hero Games, Mercury Games, Palladium, Armadillo Hobbies, and many others on hand. And, at 8 P.M. Saturday, an always popular and often spectacular event, the finals of the costume judging. So, if you see people in unusual attire, talking about how tough it is to kill a gorgon, relax and be friendly. Gamers are always willing to talk to others about their hobbv. The U.C.G.A., Council staff, and all attending are doing their best to make this an enjoyable ex- perience for both the campu:- community and conventiot,. goers, and all are welcmne : .. attend. For more information tm t: ·p Council of the Five Nations or the U.C'.G.A., contact Jplm. Larry, or Toby at 3i0-Q648. tll' send a message to the U.CG.A .. campus box 25i8. And remember to lm1k for us at the Activities Expo~ THE BLOODMOBILE WILL BE AT UNION OCTOBER 2, 3 & 4 From 11 :00 .. 5:00 in Fox Lounge Call Mrs. Marra at 370-6118 For More Information

Page4 CONCORJ)fENSIS, September 26, 1985 C .. ul · urrtc·· ... ··uDI Panel EditDr's Note: The following At this sU.ge in the process, . · statemeats were written by flt.e student input is cru,cial so that • members of the panel that met future panel members and the . last 'lluesday to diseuss group discussing this problem, \General Education: Core the AAC Sub-Connell on the · Curriculwn versus Distribution Curriculum, can hear other Requirements.\ Members of viewpoints-particularly those the panel included Academic of students. The changes that Statement by Jan Ludwig Imagine a (potentially in- whlch typically has a fixed goal guarantee that students are finite) series of questipns of a that can be achieved (and even e:x;posed to the intellectual and sort represented by the certified), education is social history · of world following random sample: essentially an open-ended civilizations, that they are 1. What are some of the ways process. Thus education con- encouraged to understand and in which the physical theories of tinues throughout Ufe, while appreciate ~art, science, and Affairs Connell (AA.C) could be made in , the Isaac Newton influenced the training can be (and is often Uterature, that they are culture of the Eighteenth said to be) completed. quantitatively competent and representative, Kathy curriculum. may not affect Keaveney, 'Professor Frank students now, but will affect . Gado, Professor Jan Ludwig, future classes of ·the College. Professor Ken Schick, and Students are also encouraged to Professor Jim Underwood,' · attend the next panel sesston on 'These position papers are Preprofessionalism on October presented here in Concordiensis 9. Students are reminded tbat so 1hat students can offer these papers and future panels suggestions as to possible represent only suggestions and changes that can be made in our that the final decisions will not Century in Europe and North Third, a person who is able to not intimidated by America? answer none (or very .few). of mathematics, that they un- 2. What is Aristotle's such questions is hardly derstand the place of definition of 'tragedy'? educated at all, although such a technology in the world of the 3. What are some of the im- person might be very hlghly past and present in order to portant differences between trained in some particUlar skill assess its future impact, and Medieval arid Renaissance art or field. In the best sense ·of the that they are able to discuss and architecture? word, such a person is ignorant. contemporary issues from a 4. What seven subjects con- Fourth, even worse off are non-parochial viewpolnt and to Liberal Learning system. be made until later. stituted the Medieval liberal persons who :not only do not take positions on the basis of arts, i.e., the trivium and the know how to answer most such well-thought-out · principles of quadrivium? questions, but who lack the value. I think we might all 5. When did printing from skills necessary to locate an~ agree that our current Liberal movable type begin the West, swers to them.; they are unable Lea r n in g d i st r i b uti on Statement by Ken Schick My sense is that our current liberal learning program is functioning adequately. I do not think that there is a feeling that it is a clear failure, and there is little sentiment .for the point of view . that it is a resounding success. When I think about \what to do\ now at Union, some questions and some ob- servations come to mind. 1. The Distribution Approach a. Continuing our own program or making minor modifications is easy to do. b. Modifications could be made in such a way as to maintain current departmental sizes or to make small changes to meet modest new curricular demands. c. This is a safe way to go with the chances· of great success or a terrible mess being small. d. 'rhe potential gains for Union in terms of national reputation, attention or public relations would be minimal. e. Continuing on our present way, we would continue to have little internal college-wide dialogue about education and values. Most faculty are apt to remain occasional contributors to a pmgram whose basic philosDphy is not clear. f. Union would not be per- ceived by any outsiders as being especially innovative or distinctive. 2. The Core Approach a. Creation of a core curriculwn would require a major institutional com- mitment with regard to faculty and finances. b. (The current faculty evaluation system would and what were some of the to educate themselves in regard requirements almost com- require revision to ac~ important consequences of this to the matters at issue, Every pletely fail to accomplish such commodate the special technological innovation during liberally educated person ought objectives as these. demands of such a program.) the ensuing fifty years or so? to learn how to· make efficient I believe that we need to c. Ongoing first rate 6. What is meant by and effective use of a good restrict severely the number of leadership would be a necessity. \Renaissance Humanism\? library~ courses available for Liberal d. The problem of the 7. Pi represents what ratio? Finally, the capacity to an- Learning credit, allowing in the \sciences and engineering\ and 8. What is the \Socratic preciate the worth of such program only courses which, in their relation to the program Method\? questions both intrinsically the judgment of an appropriate would be a difficult one to solve. 9. Who invented the term and in terms of their relevance faculty committee, clearly e. The chances of creating·. 'scientist'? When? for contemporary intellectual contribute to the ac- such a program ab initio and 10. What was the \eugenics life, is a sign of an educated complishment of such expecting it to be attractive and movement,\ and how did it person. An ignorant person will educational objectives as those distinctive are probably small. affect social policies in the often think such questions are mentioned just above. That is to f. A successful program could United States in the early silly or worthless, perhaps to say, we should count for Liberal be at the heart of the Twentieth Century? hide his or her embarrassment Learning credit only courses ecucational enterprise at Union. A person who claims to be at being uneducated. which contribute to the g. It could be interesting and liberally educated ought to be It seems to me· that Union education.of students or to their even exciting for everyone able to respond competently College, like many other ability to educate themselves, involved. and articulately to roughly half colleges and universities, is excluding courses primarily h. A poor, ill conceived, and of t'le questions on any list like graduating annually a very intended to train students in a badly managed program could that above, and, equally im- large number of nearly ignorant specific skill or specialized be a minor disaster. portantly, ought to know how to people, almost all of whom are topics. Most of the courses i. Logistics would be complex go about finding answers to very highly trained. A strong included will have a strong and some vested interests those in the other half. I believe general · education curriculum historical emphasis, be broad in would be challenged. that a primary purpose of ought to go a long way toward scope, and be based around general education is to .enable .preventing ·people from critical· reading of . primary 3. What To Do p.ersons to deal with such graduating ignorant, and lt sources. As a faculty of a. Find out what some leading questions, either by providing certainly should instill in all educated people, we ought to be institutions are doing and how answers to them or by teaching students an awareness of our able to decide what courses will they evaluate their own sue- the skills necessary to find such ignorance and a desire . to best accomplish our objectives; cess. answers on one's own. Let me diminish it as much as possible we ought to be able to reduce b. Determine what questions defend this claim by a series of during our lifetimes; It should substantially the number of these institutions asked in comments on these questions. also produce in us the skills ignorant people receiving creating their curricula and First, these are not the sorts necessary to diminish it. degrees from Union College. decide which of these are of questions one is trained to The Freshman Preceptoral What I am suggesting is not a relevant to our situation. answer; the capacity to answer program lays a strong foun- core -eurriculum as defined in c. Clarify for ourselves what such questions results from dation for general education, the AAC Subcouncil document, we expect and desire a general education, not training. (Here for combatting ignorance, but since it wolJ).d not r~ult in one education program to ac- one could discuss the distinction our present system of set of courses which. every complish. between training a person to do distribution requirements fails studenlwould take. On the other f. Decide whether our current something and educating a almost completely to build on hand, what I propose does rest program is satisfactory. person to know something.) this foundation. In my opnion, on a belief that there is a (not g. Modify our program, leave Second, just as no one .could any system of general very well-define~) body of it alone, or create a new one be expected to answer all (or education which allows· almost knowledge and class of skills based on what we learn and even most) questions of this every course in the. curriculum ·wbich every educated person what we think we can do as an sort, so one is never fully to satisfy some distribution should at least attempt to · institutjon. educated. Unlike. training, requirement or other will fail to master, so my idea is certainly ----------------------------...:._---------. educate people. Among many more akin to a core curricUlum Statement by Dwight Phaup other things, we· must try to Continued on page 17 Given the distinction between a core curriculum and a distribution requirement system as outlined in the Sub- Council's working paper, I tend to favor a distribution requirement, although not in precisely the same form as the current liberal learning program. The major problems with the current LL program, in my opinion, are two-fold: 1) courses that can be described as \liberal learning courses for the non-major\ have become stigmatized by students and facUlty and 2) minimum content requirements for a course to carry \liberal learning credit\ do not seem to have been established. Many courses which have been devel<Jped specifically for the LL program or Which are used frequently to satisfy the requirements of the program are widely regarded as a kind of \second-class\ curricular offering. Students and facUlty (including those who teach these courses) have dubbed them as being for \twits \jocks \babies \retards and the like. Such charac- terizations and the widespread recognition that these cour~es are often offered to allow non- majors to escape a \real\ course have bred a cynicism and to elevate our expectations of student elimination-to the fullest extent possible--of courses which cannot be taken for major ot LL credit by majors in the Department of- fering the course. Arrangements for different tracks in lab-related courses (labs for majors, demon- strations for ndn-majors) could be made. If not-for-majors courses must be retained, improved \quality control\ should be introduced. One way to accomplish this could be through department-sponsored courses in which the course outline and materials are developed and taught by the department's faculty at large. This approach might also discourage the possible proliferation of narrowly- focused, general education (? ) courses. No standards exist for determining when a particular course has \sufficient\ ap- propriate material to carry LL credit of a particular type.· As a result, almost all courses carry liberal learning credit, provided that ·some link can be forged between the course and one of the LL categories. The notjon that students can gain \an ability to view self and society from a nonprovincial vantage point\ equally as well from taking a coi.lrse in economic development, on the rise of novels, or \on the German language studied abroad\ suggests a standard for classification that is elastic indeed. If this elasticity is in- terpreted by students as meaning that they can satisfy the 'LL requirements \on the cheap,\ cynicism about the program is again likely. Similarly, courses which use a LL \hook\ to attract students will no doubt attract them, but frequently for the wrong reasons. A curricUlar review should also therefore consider establishing some minimum, operational standards for determining whether a course satisfies a particular LL classification, the presumption being that many courses will not be appropriate for LL credit. Statement by Kathy Keaveney '! My basic position is that the present Liberal Learning program is a good one and that we should work to improve it, rather than eliminate it com- pletely in favor of a cor,e curriculum. · A majority of Union students come from New York state high schools which operate under a core curriculum concept. High school students are currently required to complete 4 English, 3 history, 1 language, 1 math, and 1 science course and at least 3 courses in one of the latter areas. These requirements will increase significantly as the Regents Action Plan takes effect beginning this year. Many non- NYS high schools have similar requirements. Any student who is admitted to Union far exceeds these requriements. Thus, I believe that it is important that Union continues to use a distribution system which allows students· the educational . opportunity of choice ·and the freedom to explore new areas. This system shoUld, at the same time, require students to take cotirses in a wide variety of disciplines, as the current system does. I also believe,. however, that the Liberal Learning program could be improved significantly. Possible ideas inclUde splitting Category A, Arts and Literature, ·into two categories and requiring students to take one course in each, thus . insuring that students will take a second C()Urse beyond Freshman Preceptorial which requires writing, and replacing the e n g i n e e r i n g c o .u r s ·e requirement with a computer . science requirement. Finally, I would suggest that the quality of a student's education depends largely on his-her personal motivation. Unmotivated students will find w~ys to abuse any system; motivated students will find ways to make any system work to their best educational ad- vantage. The Liberal Learning program allows students to choose either option. And learning to make the right choices is part of what education is all about. / I, • ,. • ( n a Cl d d a tJ n n VI b VI e it h tl s \1 e tl n g e ll a r I I1 E r ( l

\' . • CO]VCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 PageS Statetnents Prese·nted - Statement by Frank Gado Statement by Jim Underwood A mix of more than enough metaphors for the 8¥2 minutes allotted me to discuss curricular reform. 1. What we should be Un- dertaking is an assay of the distinctive role of a college (not a university) with a liberal arts tradition. Were we to do so, we might come up with interesting new ideas and practices that would set us apart. Instead, we behave like the Tv executives who devote their ''creative\ energy to figuring out ways to imitate someone else's formula. 2. Like other colleges, Union has drifted into replication of the uni:versity model. We offer sqelves of courses, each wrapped in its own polymer envelope, and tell students to fill their baskets with a prescribed number of packages-so many green, so many red, etc., with every package of a given color presumed to be equivalent to any other package ofthat color, regardless of specific content. Liberal Learning-as flagrant a misnomer as \Comprehensive Education'' -magnifies this misprision of the college's education purpose. Pretending to be a \program it is in fact a collection of political- com- promises among departments. 3. The success of the Fresh· man Preceptorial is largely delusory. Although it may be better to require a course that pays some attention to writing than to require none at all, the real question is whether this · scheme represents the best available way to teach com- position. · Imagine the outcry if a member of the English department were assigned to teachmathematics. Why should . I feel better about a mathematician te·aching. writing? Union does not hire, · reward, tenure, or promote on the basis of writing skill, nor does it ever even ask whether a faculty member has any competence in the teaching of writing. But, somehow, with the affixing of the magical title of preceptor, wondrous capacities are supposed to flow like the blood of St. Januarius. Past its function in teaching writing, the claims for this course are still more exaggerated. What principle informs the syllabus? And what advantage is there in having instructors teach texts- to which they bring no · training or sophistication? 4. If it is true that we do not have sufficient faculty mem- bers competent to teach a core humanities course, shouldn't the 'administration brake the engine that has brought us to such a point and begin im- mediately to change the composition of the faculty? Curriculum is not the most important factor in the quality of an undergraduate education. Rather, factors such as the quality ofteaching, the desire of students to learn, and the quality of faculty-student in- teraction are more important. This is not to say that curriculum is unimportant. I assmne the following to be true. Undergraduate educ- cation is best seen as a begin- ning of learning. for students, not as the end. One main pur- pose of an undergraduate education is· to develop in students a taste for learning which will provide them with satisfaction for the rest of their lives. (A second purpose is to help develop abilities that allow them to function with con- fidence in the real world.) The best efforts of faculty to teach ultimately depend on the capacity and desire of students to learn. I believe that Union students have untapped reservoirs of the desire to learn. The job of the faculty is to set high standards and show the way. The job of the college is to encourage the best possible \learning environment,\ both inside and outside the classroom. In general we do a much better job inside the classroom than outside. We need to demand more from students inside and outside the LOAN AGENTS WANTED: If you enjoy helping in- dividua-ls and firms solve their financial needs, and at the same time earn yo~rself a l~gitimate ~nd con- ·scJonable: fee· for your service in jolning borrower and leo.~er together 1 '-including'' a:roitra.g~ and' t)a rter 'lending'., •- (affer- we have taught you our system), without disturbing wha.t you are doing now for a living, then this could be the answer to your dreams and ambitions. (Please do not apply if- .. .vou have any objections to becoming a wealthy person). A $10,000 membership- performance fee is required, refundable from first completed loans, (Based on 10% service charge up to $1 million, thereafterS%, $1 billion and over add·21/2%). Write in strictest confidence, or if in a hurry, call l-203- .848-8552, Dr. Louis Bates, .Bates Business Consultants, 123 Maple Ave., Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, USA. -Our 50th Anniversary 1935-1985- classroom by placing more responsibility c;>n students for their own education, and we need. to take steps to produce a lively intellectual life outside the· classroom. We can make all the changes in curriculum that we want, but those changes will come to naught if they do not help us tap the energy and, in- tellectual curiosity of students. Having said all this, I never- theless believe that Some change in our curriculum is desirable. Aware of the many efforts to define the concept \general education\ I resist the idea .that there is .something which can profitably be called \general education.\ However, I do embrace the idea that all un- dergraduates should learn something substantial about the development of western civilization, develop com- petence in a number of skills, and reflect upon the social and ethical implications of the uses of knowledge in the modern world. It seems to me that all three of these can be achieved· means of a core curriculmn, or a distribution system, or a combination of the two. Indeed, students should also be able to achieve through their majors some goals commonly thought of as goals of general education . As to the content of what students should know about the development of western civilization, I find attractive the language the Reed College uses to describe courses required of freshmen. (Reed is a pioneer in \general education.\) These courses are to -acquaint students with the .channels through which civilizations have interpreted their experiences: poetry, drama, painting, sculpture, music, religion, philosophical systems, forms of political and social order, and historical works. These creative en- deavors are examined in the context of the soCio-economic and institutional setting from which they emerged.- Among the skills which I believe undergraduates need to develop are the abilities: 1. to read clearly and to think in analytic, . synthetic, rhetori'cal and critical modes, 2. to write clearly and ef- fectively, r.;\'. I Welcome UNION Students I I STUDENT SPECIALS: I § § I SEPT.26-0CT.4 I I Ccilifornia Coolers I § • § 1 T1co • Harveys 1 i .. M. ·~ § W1ne . 1xer § § . ~ I Root Beer Schnapps 1 § I § i Store Prices Above Items Reduced 10% with this ad i I MOFFET'S . I WINE AND LIQUOR STORE at New Nott St. Gat:_l 3. to make oral presentations clearly and effectively, 4. to use quantitative methods as a tool in illuminating difficult choices posed by life in con- temporary society 5. to work independently The need to provide students with an opportunity to confront the social and . ethical im- plications of the uses of knowledge in the contemporary world should be self-evident. The following scheme is one possible way to structure a curriculum to achieve some of the goals I think are important. Freshman Y·ear Requirement: Two-term course dealing with important periods in the development of western civilization, with close attention to reading, thinking, and writing. Format: combination lecture-discussion groups with faculty from various depart- ments Sophomore Year Requirement: One-term couse in quantitative methods e.g. the present \Sloan\ course. For- mat: lecture with faculty from various departments Junior Year Requirement: One-tenn course dealing with social and ethical implications of the uses of knowledge. Close attention to thinking, writing and oral presentations. For- mat: small classes and in- dependent work with faculty from more than one deaprtment Senior Year Requirement: Thesis or equivalent in- dependent project in the major with oral defense required Distribution Requirement: As a way of encouraging ex- ploration. and the development of new interests, we should maintain some sort of distribution requirement. Departments should be en- couraged to develop courses or short sequences of courses attractive to majors and non- majors alike. However, given the existence of a core, the college should resist the temp- tation to cut back sharply on the number of courses which can be used to satisfy any distribution requirements. Major Requirement: As a way of encouraging exploratior:t and the development of new interests place limits on the number of courses that students can take in their majors. •••••••••• The Biology Club presents WHALE WATCH '85 Pa·ovincetown Cape Cod Sept. 27-28 Whale Watching: Witnessing the miraculous.\ Boston Herald Total Cost: Students $25 Includes: .Bus, Roo1n and Whale Watch Leave 12:30 Fri., Sept. 27- Return 8 p.m. Sat. Contact Prof. But· tersteln or Bioi. Secretary . ••••••••••

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 Union Tradition Damaged by BETH LEViNE StaH On the evE;lning of Saturday, July 26, 1985, the Idol was destroyed. Vandals used a sledge hammer or some other heavy metal object to break the .stone lion into a number of pieces. Although Security conducted an investigation which strongly suggested certain vandals, it was not able to prove their charges. The College community was upset over the act ofvandalism. The telephone operators received a number of phone calls from past and present alumni. Professor Ted Schwartz, class of 1959, and Professor George Williams, class of 1965, both in the Computer Science and Electrical Engineering Department, and Dwight Wolff, Registrar, class of 1968, offered a $125.00 reward for the iden- tification of the person or people responsible. Building was being recon- -structed. Four students took the . thick paint used for iron work and painted tbe pedestal black, the body white and the mouth a red made from water colors, The I dol: To paint it is a tradition, but maliciOus vandalism provokes outrage .. According to Mr. Jack Hill, the Idol had been moved from behind the library sometine in June. It was repaired at its new location, in front of the Science and Engineering Building, within two or three weeks. An old photograph provided a reference as each piece was fastened to another and the cement allowed to set. \The Idol,\ says Schwartz, \is part of Union's history, and to see someone do that to it makes you angry.\ Incensed and frustrated, the three alumni hoped the reward might en- courage someone to provide security with more infonnation. The Idol continued to receive many more coats of honor as the spirit of Union was demonstrated in its initiation rites. ,A sophomore captured a \frosh\ -who was told tQ paint the statue. a brilliant green. If the \frosh\ was able to coerce a sophomore into redecorating the idol with .red paint, then the ritual continued. The paint was not always able to dry, so the image becarr.ie even more distorted. In the spring of 1902, the two classes declared a truce, ~d the fre13hmen and sophomores painted the lion- ness and her cub all white. In 1915, a year after the Idol was moved to its third location, behind tne library, a Hymn was written to the Idol. Student affection for .the statue con- tinued to be expressed with various shades of colored paint as welL CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS This reaction to what appears to be only a grotesque statue seems to indicate that at- tachment to the Idol as a symbol of ·continuity and stability has not disappeared after its 109 years of history at Union. Activities Expo Today, Thursday, September 26, Student Activities will hold the annual activities exposition from 2 to 5 p.m. at Old Chapel Plaza. Student clubs and organizations will have in- formation booths for interested old and new students. The rain date for the Expo is Friday, September 27. This event promises apples galore for anyone who attends. Boston .Trip The Union University Travel Club will sponsor a trip to . Boston ~s. Quincy. . Market. on Saturday, October 19, for $13.00. Buses will leave Wells House at 7 a.m. and will leave Boston at 8 p.m. that day. Checks should be made payable to Union and sent to Mrs. Marra before the October -10 deadline. For in- formation, ca~ 370-6118. Credit Card Fraud \The Big Business of Credit Card Fraud\ will be the subject of a talk by Gerald McCarthy, Special Assistant to the Director of Criminal Justice in the State of New York today, September 26. The lecture constitutes part of a colloquium hosted by the Union College Institute of Administration and Management, which will be held on Thursdays from 3:45 to 5 p.m. in Baily Hall. The presentations by members of the business community and university faculty will address topics of general interest to present and future business leaders. The colloquiwn is open to the business community as well as students and faculty of the universities. For more infor- mation call Dr. Donald F. Arnold, Chairman of Ph.D Program at 370-6302. Capital Fun Drive 10 percent over last year. Capital Fun Drive '85\ will be an exciting, fun-filled musical event and a step towards alleviating hunger in our area. Dana Scholars Named The following Union students were named to receive the Charles A. Dana Scholarship: Nina Mogilnik, '86; Maureen O'Day, '86; Melinda Phillips, '86; Joseph PicoUa, '86; Lisa Freed, '86; Richard Blute, '86; Mary Carroll, '86 Timothy A maj_~r fundraising effort, Lowry, '86; Adriene Hah, '87; to benefit the Albany County Karen Restifo '86; Joanne EmergencyFoodTaskForce, is Giambo, .. '86; Pasqual~ - set -for Sunday, . Octobex: 20 at , - LaPietra, '86; Frank- Perri, '86-; J.B.'s Theater, Albany's newest Antonio Martini, '86; Laura - rock club. \Capital Fun Drive Cavoli, '86; David Beal, '86; '85\ is a day-long concert Dawn Tamarkin, '87; featuring the area's most ex- Christopher Wu, '87; Yvonne citing rock, gospel, and big Szymko, '87; Suzanne Appleton, gand acts. The musical ex- '86; Michael Barrett, '86; travaganza promises many Andrew Ketchum, '86; Daniel surprises and special events. Higgins, '86; Diane Duffy, '86; All proceeds from the gala Jackie Chyu, '86; Catherine In 1876 Rev. J.M.W .. Farnham sent his alma mater this symbol of happiness, good fortune and long life, dubbed the Idol soon after its arrival. The alumnus felt that the front of the library was an appropriate spot for his gift, for there the mystical powers of the liQness and cub could guar<!. its . domain and ward off evil. Its first site, however, was the rear of the President's house where the famous ritual began. At this time, the dome on the Memorial The Idol has become the focus of many campus demon- strations. Up until this summer, the great spirit of Union students has been exhibited, shall we say) artistically. Despite its brief show of P.hysicalmortality, the Iaol and Its sym holism cannot be shattered. The far-eastern beliefs of· the eternal benevolence provided by the lioness will endure. We hop'e that Union students will· con- tinue to uphold the tradition of re.spect. Bednarik, '88; Jill Tomack, '88; mission the support of higher Christine Rue, '88; Paul education. The scholarship Malatesta, '87; Susan Petrou, seeks to \identify and en- '87; Steven Hartman, '87; courage students of academic R.ichard Barbu, '87; Regan p~om~se. and. goo~ character Ca~dp.m_on~ •.. .'67.;. _ Judith . 'Yl~~J.il!lltedfm{lncial re~ources DiMauro '87· , Stephen Frank· · · who·have completed atleast one '87· ·Nicholas 'Gallello '87· lis~ year of college.'' Each year Je~ouri '87· Julie Stone' '86· over 85 students are nominated James Sch~artz, '86. ' ' by departments at the college, with 35 Dana Scholars chosen The Charles A. Dana . by the college's Committee on Scholarship was establishe<i by · . Scholarships and Financial' Aid. a gran.t from The Charles A. Only nineteen other colleges in Dana Foundatjon of New York the U.S. receive support from City, which has as its primary the Foundation. will benefit the Albany County Emergency Food Task Force (ACEF'l'F), an organization that supplies emergency food to the hungry of Albany County. ACEFTF consists of twenty-five Academics Discussed food pantries located throughout the county. Currently, pantries are serving approximately 5,500 people each month. More than half of those served are children. ACEFTF reported an increase in the numbers of hungry each year since 1980. This year hunger in Albany County is up Continue-a-from page 1 \-High schools have left students · The student representative to. unprepared\ for college. He the l{,.AC, l{.athy Keavene~, was · -: ·mentioned in particular that in .more optimistic about the some of his English classes his Liberal Learning program students to not know the basics which she described as \pretty of writing papers. As a result, healthy.\ She stated that the he feels that liberal arts main strength of Union's colleges in general ate at a Liberal Learning .program is crisis stage. · \the freedom to choose.\ The last panel member to Keaveney believed that Liberal present, Professor Jim Learning broadened her Underwood, believes that Union science courses are not required for the survey or <~F\ courses. other suggestions included setting a better standard for Liberal Learning . courses and sending out a preliminary questionnaire. Orientation • • • educational background. Her needs to conduct a ''self- specific recommendations examination.\ Union, ac- include the addition of a more- cording to Underwood, needs to developed writing course and make a statement about the The AAC Subcouncil on the Curriculum emphasized, in its memorandum, however, however, that any suggestions made now are just that- suggestions. The subcouncil hopes that the' recognized political groups (divisions, departments, student forum, etc.) will \refrain from establishing hardened positions on specific recommendations too early in the process.\ Professor Zwicker also stresses that any decisions will not affect students at Union now but those in the following years. He also fees that student input is im-' perative. Students, according to Zwicker, must explain,what it is like to take these Liberal Learning courses. Students are encouraged to attend these panel sessions and submit their input to the .AAC supcouncil. The next panel session will be held on October 9 and will concern preprofession'alism. Continued from page 3 information concerning academics, including depart- mental meetings pertaining to majors. Later that day, students met with faculty ad- visers concerning course scheduling for their fall term. That night, freshmen at- tended the \Getting To Know U\ semi-formal dance. The dance was held in Achilles Rink this year, due to lack of room and facilities elsewhere. \Out of Control\ was the live band for the second year in a row. On Tuesday, orientation began to wind down as fresh- men registered during the day at times scheduled according to major. That evening, final group meetings were held. Afterwards, freshmen OAs, and RAs gathered on the Memorial Chapel to learn the Alma Mater, led by the Dutch Pipers. Then the Class of 1989 marched to the home of President and Mrs. Morris and sang their loud and spirited version of the Alma Mater. Orientation '85, \Getting To ' Know You,\ ended that night with a repeat performance of Sunday's Cabaret and the movie \The Way We Were\ which was filmed in part on Union's campus. The success of Orientation '85 was due tothe com billed efforts of many people including students, faculty and ad- ministrators. Organizational . efforts were primarily per- formed by the Orientation Committee: Lisa Freed, Chairperson, Janey Keyes, Vice Chairperson, Josh Greene '86, Keith Conklin '87, Mark Web- ster '88, Winston Bliss '87, Kelly Farrell '86, Tammy ~omas '87, Jackie· Jones '86, Gina Padula '87, John Zuk '87, Wendy Richards '87, Cindy Steinberg '86, and Julie Mountain '87. dropping the \F\ requirement. College and make students The fourth panel member, more aware of their cultural Professor Ken Schick, on the heritage. He aiso commented other hand, did not make any that we need to \think about .detailed . recommendations. · -learn-in-g outside the · Instead, he spoke on the value of classroom,\ and about creating the general education. He a more intellectual en- recognized the problems virorunent. inherent in Union's Liberal Learning program, but also noted that changing to a core approach would entail a major commitment from the College in terms of finances and faculty. He mentioned though that the core curriculum at his alma mater, Columbia University, was very successful. Professor Frank Gado presented the OP,inion that During the discussion that followed, several varying comments were made. It was noted that too many different kinds of courses can be used to· fulfill one Liberal_ Learning requirement. Keaveney ;also suggested that it was hard to have an engineering survey course and have it be true '' engineering 11 when math and ECONOMICS CLUB MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1ST • 7 P.M. • 55014 -ALL ARE WELCOME I- I I ! .f ·J i i ~~ I I .. t .. I I l ' ..

: : . ~ 1. I ! I. . .. .. GOOD I\OR O·NE FREE TRIAL SESSlON CONCORDIENSIS; September 26, 1985 SP·ORTS CENTER making things · happen . . Call for your appointment today (518) 393-5032 Page7 Offering you • 27 Stations of Nautilus • Free Weights • Pro Stqr Super Hack Sled • Team Programs • Rehabilitative Exercise Programs • Shape-up, & Fitness Programs' • Strength & Conditioning Programs • 3- 12 Month Memberships . • J a.zzercise Let OTR Sports Center Design A perspnal program to fit .lJOU 204 So. Ten Broeck St., Smtl.a, N.Y. *Student Specials* ATTENTIO·N!! All Union College Students 1 Faculty I Staff . ~ Bring Your U n'ion I. D. and receive 15% Off ou·r Entire Food m_enu MfiNHf\ fiN - '~~QjiH4~~~ Every Monday Thru Friday 3:30 - 6:30 p.m. ' ~' • ·' • ' ~ • • it • ' . . .~ .----CALL US: ~R~6 DELIVERY TEt.#J46·J1JS__.... ~ '+03 UNION ST.- • - NEAR \Jt-not-t CoLLE:GrE.- · · 605 Union Street 374-5930 Let us be your \Total Salon\ .. --··--- ·-· . •.. .. . ... , __ -·- . . . Haircut I Design Waxing Perms Make-Up Colour llody Wraps Facials Nail Lengthening 15% Dis~ount with Union ID card and 10% Discount with Ad Offer expires Oct. 10 Our designers have been trained by SASSOON of London and JINGLES, N. Y .C. ~r4! MtltiH Mf~N'6-1't~TJIIN~./ Gooding Skin Systems 374-0736 322 State St., Schenectady. N.Y. 12305 ON ALL 8-12-24 CUT PIZZA With This Coupon Expires Dec. 30 ~-------------------------~-------------' Try Our Pasfas, Calzones Hot & Cold Italian Subs, Buffalo Chicken Wings I l ·I '

P:lge8 CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 LOOKING FOR A PLACE TO TAKE AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE: F\HONES: 372-7270 370.3735 Not all colleges and universities in the United States have Air Force ROTC programs. And we recognize that many people want to enter the two or four-year progrqm and are looking for a school where they can take it. Call or visit one of the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the ''Crosstown\ J')rogram. ' Here are some more facts that may be of interest: • Courses are open to college men and women. • Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books. and lab fees, plus $100 a month for other expenses. • You work toward an Air Force commission upon gradu· ation. • You have an opportunity to serve your country as an Air Force officer. \ You don't have to be enrolled in these schools to attend the AFROTC program there. HOT'C Gateway to a great way of life. . $13·45* AMO. ,, ' ' ' •' .. ,, ' ·~ ''\''\' \M~'..~'•'•'•'' o'.'> ' .~.. ' o'>'o ' \' '• \ ' ''' .•• •• •, •••' '•'''' \\' ,•,.• * 13\ TV @ $13.45 per month = $121.05. Based on 9 monthly payments. Check it out right away. You'll find a brand new kind of opportunity. For more information, call or write: RPI - Air Force ROTC Troy NY 12180-3590 ( 513) 266-6236 HOME STYLE PlZZA COR. UNION STREET & V·AN ANTWERP R·O. ·F'E .... TURING ORDERS TO. TAKE OUT SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Send $2 for cat a log of over 16,000 topics, to assist your writing efforts and help you beat Writers' Block. For info., call TOLL-FREE l- 800-621-5745. ( l,n Illinois, call 312-922-0300.) Authors' Research, Rm. 600, 407 South Dea,r- born, Chicago ll606.0S. $23· 35 *A MO . *Console TV@ $23.35 per month= $210.15. Based on 9monthly payments. • • •-, • • .J<' - -· $17· 95 * AMO. ·.. :: :. ·.:::l::: . :.·::·. ~~ ... :~:::· ::::;:··:· ·:-·;::::~:::::· :::.:-: \1. ~~~;.~: .: .. ~~:::;::1':·::·:·::::.~:·. .. 4 -~ .. · .. ' ~~~~~~~~~~-~ ....... ..:. ;.(.~--·;::}i·~- . • ' . . . ·. ·. . . -· ' . ! . ,,,,.~,.,.~,···· • • • •••• · • ·- · • •- • •••N.-n•;n,,...u,, • • .... ,. • ._,\ ·~N .,. • · y.;_n,,.,.,,~.,,..,,, • ... · · · ... .,. • .,. •. N<;\ ' .. • ... • '>~:,. ..... •-:'j' ... ..:,. 'fr\ . . •. ' '\ . *VCR@ $17.95 per month= $161.55. Based on 9 monthly payments. STUDENT ID GETS YOU 10o/o.OFF Nlake your payments with a major credit card, and you'll save another Now you can have a roommate you're $3.00 a month. And, let's face it, you guaranteed to get along with. And all don't have to have a PhD in economics you have to do is call Granada TV Rental. to realize they're the best deals around. At Granada, companionship comes What's more, our low rates also in- cheap. When you rent 'til the end of the elude free service and repairs, usually school year, your student I. D. gets you a within 24 hours. And if we can't fix it Magnavox, RCA or Hitachi color TV for as on the spot, we'll give you a free loaner. little as $13.45 to $23.35 a month. A VCR So give us a call today and let us set for as little as $17.95 to $22.95 a month. you up with an ideal roommate. Just And our incredible combo offer-a TV,· think, if it ever gets on your nerves, you VCR and stand-for just $29.95 a month ......... can simply shut it off. GRANADA TV RENTAL THE BEST BUYS IN RENTING. ALBANY: CROSSGATES MALL (518) 456-8663 'Delivery charge not included in above cost. Applican.s subject to credit references. .. .. . ' . •

• CONCORI)lENSJS, September26, 1985' Page9 FEATURES ·Decisions? . Help the Cause By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Associate Features Editor Protest at B itburg Most of us are guilty of possessing a seriops fault. We continually co:mplain about situations around us, but do little or nothing to change them. Countless angered voices of disgruntled students echo across the Union grounds. As people of above average level of intelligence we certainly have the means to create im- provements. So why do we settle for mediocrity? Sometimes I tell myself that we give Wlder in expectation of a losing battle, or that the dif- ficulties one faces in getting the ball rolling discourages action. The excuses, however, just don't cut it. Issues stand before us, one m.erely has to pick a worthy c·ause. So many decisions are made each day that affect our lives that we let pass us by, . market. Memories of Freshman Orientation there made me pleased to hear this, but I began to wonder what the story was. It seemed to me that for all its potential, the Girling Center has been sadly neglected. As it turns out, Monday afternoon three student trustees (Chris Siler, Julie Mountain, and Andrew George) met with President Morris to discuss this very problem. They came to the conclusion that it would probably be best to set Qp a committee to decide the Girling Center's fate. This group would be comprised of an ad- ministrator, a student, and a faculty member. Many plans for the use of the Girling Center have been suggested. As a solution to our housing problem, maybe townhouses could be built there. Since we hear so many complaints concerning our disrupted social life, due to campus-wide construction, maybe the clubhouse there could be renovated. This could be a great supplement to on- campus social activities. I suggest that we should make the effort and get involved in these issues. West Germany Up Close What about the campus construction and general upheaval around us? Let's not forget the issues concerning Gel Time either. In fact, the other day I discovered that the Girling Center was off the ATTENTI.ON ALL FORMER TERMS ABROAD PARTICIPANTS THE HOMECOMING COMMinEE STILL NEEDS YOUR PICTURES!! Help us celebrate the lOth an- niversary of Terms Abroad at Union. ·Please write your name and box number on the back of your prints and give them to Sharon in the Alumni Office at Lamont House. By SCOTT BERNSTEIN Contributor 502 years after the birth of Martin Luther, 199 years after Mozart composed his first great opera and 40 years after the fall of the Third Reich, a group of Union College students traveled t~ the West German city of Freiburg to participate in a Union College Term Abroad program. We return to Union this fall with many memories, some of which will stay with us for a lifetime. The attempt to study and understand · Germany today divided and struggling with itself physically and psychologically as it has done for over 1,000 years, proved to be a difficult, often frustrating, yet ultimately rewarding task. Due to the particularly poignant timing of our visit, namely the . 40th anniversary of the end of World War II, we were afforded the opportunity of -' studying Germany and its people at a time of national introspection. The event which introduced us to the complexity of the \German Psyche\ was our five day visit to communist East Germany, known officially as the German Democratic Republic. We anticipated this trip with the expected curiosity and apprehension of American students traveling to the \East\ for the first time. Upon our arrival at Weimar, once the home. of Johann Wolfgang Goethe, it became readily apparent that East Germany was to be significantly different from the West. For those of us World War II movie buffs who had been trying to conjure up images of wartime Germany while back in Freiburg, it now became frighteningly easy to do so on the eastern side of the border. The grey skies and awful stench coming from the burning of coal and leaded fuel and the critical lack of fresh paint leaves much of East Germany looking like the soundstage of a black and white movie. Standing in the Weimar village square, outside the Hotel Eelphant where Hitler delivered numerous speeches, the site of goosestepping soldiers in Berlin and entire city blocks left seemingly untouched since the war, all smelled of an era whose time had passed. We were later to learn from our official East German tour guides, just how ironic these observations were. The GDR,we were told at our military briefing at the Brandenburg Gate overlooking the Berlin Wall, is in fact the antithesis to Nazi Germany; a· society founded on the principles of \Peace and Socialism.\ Across the Wall to the West, inside the reactionary Federal Republic, was where the Nazi-Fascist legacy was to be found. What we learned from all the lectures and numerous monuments and museums commemorating the defeat of Hitler's Germany was that rememberance of the UNI .. ON BEVERAGE CORP. 1701 UNION STREET (Next To McDonalds) HOURS: MON. thwuSAT. 9 to 9, SUN. 12 to 5 p.m. 382-5958 Wo ,..._,. tho right to limit quantities. Not rosponslbS. foe. typographical 4mWS. OPEN FOR BUSINESS Watch·, For Our Grand Opening Coming Soonl HEINEKEII · LIGHT OR DARK 13.99o- BUD EXP . RTS Y2 KEG BUSCH PIELS EXPORT 10.3, Can $27.50 . 5.39c ... MILLER EXPORTS 9.99c ... Y2 KEG BUD $33.00 DRAFT BEER Halvet & Quarters Available. Alao Ice! Phtnty of Free Parking destruction inflicted upon the world by Nazism was top government priority. Whether it is to justify their own dogmatic militarization of society or to mask their relatively low standard of living vis-a-vis West Germany, the East German government reminds its citizens daily of their duty to not only remember the victims of Nazism, but make the necessary sacrifices, in the form of material possiessions and acceptance of authoritarian rule, to insure that the seeds of Nazism, allegedly lying in West Germany, are not allowed to resurface. While we were partaking of the best that East German propaganda had to offer, another story was beginning to unfold . back home in the ''West.'' At first the controversy surrounding the proposed visit of President Reagan to the \Kolmeshohe Friedhof,\ known infamously now as the Bitburg Cemetery, seemed to confirm some of what we had been told in East Germany. Here was West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl inviting Ronald Reagan to a memorial ceremony honoring German war dead, to be held at a cemetery where 39 members of Hitler's elite Waffen SS lay buried. Furthermore, a survey of the West German press, revealed that an alarming amount of German citizens were indignant~ of the great emotional outrage the proposed ceremony had stirred among members of the world's Jewish community as well as leaders of the American Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW). Notwithstanding the pleas from around the world, in- cluding the many from Within the Federal Republic, to revoke the invitation, Helmut Kohll)eld firm. On May 6, the day of' the ceremony, Kohl asserted publicly his hope that the \insignificant mino.rity\ standing in protest outside the cemetery, would not detract from the significance of this \momentous occasion\ un- derscoring the close ties bet- ween the Federal Republic and the United States. As I stood among the some 1,500 protestors at Bitburg, somewhat angry and disap- pointed that the event was actually to occur, I noticed an older man standing next to me wearing a peculiar blue striped cap. As I would later learn, this man, just one among the hundreds of \insignificant\ protestors, had been issued his cap at the Nazi death camp called Auschwitz. After several weeks passed and the public uproar dissipated, a more rational analysis of the \Bitburg in- Continued on page 11

l , r Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 FEATURES 1985 Adirondack Balloon Festival N.Y. State Assembly Interns on issues ranging from DWI to toxic waste and taxation. Too Muc:h Hot Airl Each year the New York State Assembly offers 150 full• time internships for college juniors,. seniors and graduate students. The semesterQlong programs begin in January with a week of orientation to state government and the legislative process. In addition to attending regular classes at the Assembly, Session Interns work directly with Assembly members. They draft and brief biBs, research and respond to questions from people in the member's horne area and at- tend meetings and hearings held by Assembly Committees. The end result of total im~ mersion in this active work- learning experience is firsthand knowledge of state government, the legislative process and policy-making. Session Interns do research and are exposed to the views of groups and in- dividuals from all over the state Session ·Interns receive a semester of credit from their college and a $1,200 stipend from the Assembly. Applications and supporting materials for this program must be submitted to a designated liaison officer at the applicant's college before November 1. Graduate Scholars serve as full-time professional staff to Assembly leaders and receive $8,500 stipends. Applicants for the Graduate Scholars Program apply directly to the Assembly Intern Committee no later than November 1, 1985· for the program beginning in January. Further information and applications are available from the Assembly Intern Program, 829A . Legislative Office Building; Albany, New York, 12248; (518) 455-4704. ~yMARGARETBOITANO Features Editor Interested in flying but not ready to enroll in a vigorous training program for com- mercial pilots? Perhaps Hot Air Balloons are just the solution for such an appealing dilemma. A safer alternative to parachuting or hang-gliding, Hot Air Balloons offer a more spectacular view wherever you fly, along with a comfortable and more luxurious means of traveling. For those interested or daring enough, Glens Falls was the place to be last weekend. Warren County Airport hosted the Annual Adirondack Balloon Festival right smack in the middle of one of its major runways. Around five a.m. Saturday morning, over three hundred and fifty of these brilliant and powerful creations launched into the crowded sky, symbolizing the initiation of the Festival. From that point on- wards, the biggest Balloon Fair in the Northeast captivated the almost ten thousand spectators who woke very early indeed that Saturday morning. To make a whole weekend affair, the . parking lot across from the Airport was also used as a camp site. Various booths offering a variety of food, drink, and souvenirs for Charity Beneifts enlarged the scene ever more for the many families and groups that at- tended. Either privately owned or part of an advertising campaign for specific com- panies, the Balloonists poured in from all over the country to demonstrate their unique talent and just enjoy the weekend entertainment. What actually ma:kes a Balloon? Th.e Balloon itself is made of a rip-stop nylon en- velope that is filled with air, then heated by a propan~ . bwner until it eventually takes off into the sky. Once airborne, the direction and speed of the Balloon is basically governed by the wind. The average Balloon seats four to six passengers and goes for around six thousand dollars. There were a variety of Balloons in the Festival itself ranging from a man himself carrying a fairly inexpensive tank of gas and a Balloon overhead alone to a magnificent ten person capacity Balloon that when iriflated. stands ninety feet tall COMPUTER CENTER NEWS New Vax Cluster Account Structure The student account structure on the VAX cluster has been modified to promote computer literacy by making it easier for a student to obtain and keep an account. A student will now have a single account on the cluster, not one account for each class taken. Students may keep the same account for their entire four years at Union. A computer usage fee of $20 per year will be charged for an account, and an initial disk quota of 2000 blocks will be allocated. Any student requiring more space for legitimate reasons should seek authorization from the Academic Services Coordinator. Students with accounts may log onto any processor in the cluster to do their work. A list of software on each processor is available at the computer center. Lab fees for courses using the computer will be reduced to $15. if you have any questions about computer accounts please call 6293. Updated VAX Cluster Handbook An updated version of the VAX Cluster Hand- book is now available in the bookstore. The update reflects the operating system upgrade to VMS 4.1 and expanded descriptions of available software packages. and floats to the tune of twenty thousand dollars. Balloon rides range in price according to the size of the Balloon and the length of the ride, but they average one- hundred and twenty-five dollars for an hour long ride. It is ad- vised to dress comfortably and come equipped with a warm sweater and camera. Rides are offered daily from May thru October at the Adirondack Balloon Flight Office in Glens Falls. So if you are interested :in · dying over the Adirondack Mountain Valleys or just out for a day of sw·prises perhaps this is just the thing for you. Interested in Being an - Overnight Host for Pa·ospective Students? A meeting will be held today, Sept. 26, at 4:30p.m. in SS016. If you cannot attend, contact Ann Lowery, Assistant Dean of Admissions/ at 6112. Hope to see you there! PAISA ·MISfR . 163 .lax St., SQh'dJ -India l~ttJOrts - 377-7173 .--. Bring in coupo • · Complete Boutique Dresses, Skirts, Tops, Pants, Brass Gifts Jewelry, Wicker, Gifts, Tapestries, Etc. Open Mon.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 p.m. • Thurs. 10:00 a.m.-9:oop.m. ngA-iillijljii If you want to have an ~mazing time, he there .•. TONIGHT: 10 p.m. 'till whenever AE P (pre-charter> Presents An Evening at SUNDAY'S 616 Union St. OJ A.ND DANCING. 2 FOR 1 MIXED DRIN.KS 2 FOR 1 DRAFT BEERS NO COVER! SEWARD PL. Come share a night with the most up and coming fraternity: ALPHA EPSILON PI .~ . • - Co ci G bl bt hi m pl pl fo rE in tr. Cl G ir rl Cl G aJ ci fl p oJ w a: G s Sl \XI f< v A T o: li s' 0 b t< p VI y G 0 VI tl b tl n g t: n lc 0 k a a a c s ( t g 0 r g ' ' ~ c t t i ;: t l I ( s 1 f 1

• CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 Page 11 \FEATURES The Bitburg Incident Continued from page 9 cident\ and the visit to -,East Germany became possible. For ·better or worse, West Germany, because of its past, is held to a higher degree of humility than most other nations. It is not a past Germans can or should be proud of, but one they can never forget. Helmut Kohl's inv'itation reflected not so much German insensitivity to the victims <>f the Holocaust or as an in- creasing amount of West Germans would say, Kohl's own ineptitude, but rather tt reflected a great dilemma· currently raging within West German society. More than anything else, the Bitburg in- cident was indicative of the ruling Christian Democratic Party's. desi~e to instill a sense of national pride in a nation where pessimism and criticism are. popular natiGnal pastimes. Geographically, West Germany sits on the tense border separating the free and captive worlds. Internally the potential for political crisis while not as visible is almost as strong. According to the New York Times, among the 50.2 percent of West Germans born after 1945, there exists a declining sense of gratitude ~nd obligation of the kind exprl!ssed by the previous generation, toward the US .for having rebuilt p.ost-war Germany. Instead whaf ·a growing number of young Germans see is a divided Germany; two nations, one occupied by US troops and weapons anclthe other by S()viet troops and weapons, both sides being· readied as the bat- tlegroimd for World War III. Evidently, Helmut Kohl and members of the older generation of Germans believe that continuing to burden modern West Germany with the legacy of Nazi atrocities not only stigmatizes the nation and keeps it from becoming a full and equal m'em ber in the alliance of Western. states, but also contributes to the in- creasingly neutralist and in- sular sentiment of y()ung Germans, of the type expre~sed by the leftist Green Party. The great fear is that the prevalence of such ideas could one day result in the election <>f a government prepared to pull West Germany out of NATO. With an ever increasing amount of high level political defections now coming from both sides of the German border, the once solid ideological line between East and West, is for young Germans becoming more and more blurred. And what of the German Democratic Republic? Why does this German nation always seem to escape the criticism leveled at the Federal Republic for once having been part of the Thb·d Reich? For all the scrutiny under which West **** Only 262 Days until G1taduation! **** Germany exists today, it exists as a free democratic state. It is a .state where although a Bit- burg incident did occur, protestors from around the globe were free to congregate and voice their disapproval. No such protest Would have been allowed at Bitburg 41 years ago nor would it have been allowed at any time in the history of the present East German states. For the government of East Germany, dwelling on the atrocities of the past is a way of covering up their own sins and insuring political stability. With ever more social and economic problems, emphasizing t:be past · seems to be a surer policy than encouraging new intellectual ideas potentially harmful to party control. The public soul searching of the kind now going on in the Federal Republic could never occur in East Germany. As a foreign student, one could sense the desire of West German youth to un- derstand the past, put it into proper perspective and then constructively move on with the making of a new German society with a hisotry and legacy its people can be proud of. · The President's Commission on - ' .~ rD I- V '0 w 1... 0 VI VI ~ 0.. >- .0 ~ 0 .!=. a Status of Women at Union College ATTENTION STUDENTS: A call for Student Represen- tatives. • WHO WE ARE: Representatives of students, staff, faculty, administration at Union College. WHAT WE DO: Serve as an advisory group to the President Qf Union College on issues of importance to women on campus. Act as a support and advocacy· group for students ahd employees. Call attention to special issues and problems involving women on campus. Sponsor speakers and activities of interest to women at Union. Publish a monthly bulletin, FOCUS, of activities of interest to women at Union. Sponsor .Prize Day awards for scholarships, community service and athletics. Call ext. 6288 for further information The mallard's new habitat Construction abounds on campus Disorientation ByWENDIZ~ERMAN Contributor 0 .. the car is empty, my room is cluttered with unpacked bags arrd boxes and I am laying on my bare mattress ready to pass out. Where are the men that unpacked my car last year? Why should it be that as we advance up the ranks at Union our privileges diminish? I open my eyes and realize that the sun has been hidden away only to be replaced by a blanket of humid sticky air. Yeah. A perfect first night. I manage to pick up my sore body from the bed to trudge off to the skellar, hopefully to ease my aching muscles with a good game of cups. Little did I realize that I would have to wait in line, only to get sandwiched between a six foot tall football player and a smoker who doesn't realize that short people do patronize the skellar and don't appreciate hot ashes in the inner ear. Alas, my evening is not as thrilling as expected. Aha, the perfect remedy. A pub cookie of course. I take the usual fifteen minute route to the door and niake my way out to the won- derful night air. I· am half way to Carnegie ... I stop ... where is the Carnegie I used to know? Instead I am staring at scaf- folds, cinder blocks, and a fence to ward off the curious. O.K. now where is the Pizza Pub? I learn that it is in Hale ... I go there and discover that there is no Pizza Pub. How can they do that to me? I love that Pub. I'm a perfect customer. I enuciate my order, say please and thank you and tip. What more can you ask? O.K. I'm on my own now, abandoned by my friends for an imaginary Pub Cookie. What to do? I go off to Lenox Road to check out the Fraternity Parties but there are none. I don't believe it. I go back to the Dorm and get up early the next morning. I don't have class until 1:30 but r have to open a checking account resulting from a wonderful year of banking at Norstar. I also have to mail some letters but I lost the Mail Room! ! ! I wonder when things are going to get back to normal ... probably once I'm long gone. Development Forum Get Involved with Union's Literary Magazine \LIVE AID\= ''BAND AID\= \WE ARE THE WORLD\ - \USA FOR AFRICA\ - all are familiar words that bring to mind the human tragedy of drought and famine that has plagued the peoples of developing countries that most Americans had never heard of one year ago. There is a new awareness in America, an awareness that each of us can make a difference. The Yuppie mentality of our more recent past is giving way to a resurgence of compassion and concern about how we can best help out brothers and sisters of the world face the complex human problems that have . confounded humanity throughout the ages. The Peace Corps, a United States govern- ment agency, has been a part- ner in that efJort fortwenty-five years. Peace Corps has. purposely chosen to launch its 25th an- niversary with a column targeted to universities, colleges and high schools all over the United States. It was on such a campus that the idea of a \peace corps\ first received national attention. Almost 25 years ago, then-presidential candidate John F Kennedy tossed out an impromptu challenge to thousands of University of Michigan students: \How many of you , who are going to be doctors are willing to spend your days in Ghana?\ To his astonishment a petition sigr:ted by more than 800 students affirming their in- terest . reached him just two days later. Since that time more tba'1 120,000 Americans have served ih the Peace Crops in more than ninety countries around the globe. There are not 6,000 Peace Corps Volunteers serving in 60 countries, more than half of whom are in one way or anotlier involved in agriculture and agricultural-related projects. For example, in countries around the world: -forestry Volunteers work to curb receding forests by establishing fruit tree nurseries and village woodlots for future firewood; - energy Volunteers in- troduce designs for more fuel efficient stoves; - engineers Volunteers build potable water systems which supply the essential water for cooking and gardening; - health Volunteers teach family nutrition and basic sanitation practices as well as combat infant dehydration with locally made formulas. Individual Volunteers can proudly point to their ac- complishments as catalysts for self-help projects. Michael Shean, 27, completed a remarkable task of surveying the soil of one million acres of terrain in Nepal; he recently extended his two-year assignment for another year to oversee one million dollars' worth of projects which will triple the amount of available farmland. Lynn Blalock, 63, enhanced the quality of native sheep in Barbados through better animal nutrition, which im- proved the diet of the Caribbean people, increased the income of farmers, and decreased costly meat imports. These brief examples are intended to highlight the work of Peace Corps Volunteers in the area of food production. Their efforts and that of their host country co-workers are helping to create a foundation of hope and promise for a future free of hunger, disease, poverty, and illiteracy. Together these collective contributions of people-helping-people in the remote corners of the world demonstrates more than any 'other measurement the caring and compassion that can be shared when one is given the opportunity to offer one's time and talent. Peace Corps Volunteers receive extensive skill, language, and cross cultural training and are provided medical care, transportation, and student loan deferments. Additionally, they are paid a monthly living allowance and a readjustment sum of ap- proximately $4,500 upon completion of service. For futher information on the Peace Corps, call 80(1..424-8580. IDOL Contact Joy Box 1282 or Ext. 6480 WANTED Writers For Features Call Maggie x6732

P~ge 12 CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 <lrnttntrbtrnsis FounJ,J al { lmon C(JII'¥?e /877 ------------ --~---- Happy New Year! The Editorial Board of Concordiensis·welcomes back all students and extends an especially wann greeting to incoming freshmen and transfers. We are excited about starting another new year at good ol' \U\ and are anxious to begin serving the college community as your campus newspaper. Concord.iensis is a forum for news, sports, campus and community events and you should remember that it belongs to you, the student. If you have any suggestions or questions for us, or if you are in- terested in getting involved, feel free to contact us at X6l55 or Box 2577 or .stop by our office on the third floor of Old Chapel on Tuesday nights. Betteryet, stop by our booth this afternoon at the Student Activities E~po. And, because a bright new year is now with us 1 we encourage everyone (yes, even the most apathetic of students) to sample some of the many varied aspects of life at Union. There are so many sports, academic clubs, social groups and other activities just staring you in the face. What's stopping you? These activities can contribute just as much to your Union experience and your personal growth as classes and parties do. We challenge all students, both new and old, to take interest in the events that affect you, to become active in organizations that interest you and to experience as much of life as you can during your short stay here at Union. In essence, CHALLENGE yourself! . We can aU make the 1985-1986 year the best we've ever had and the best Union has ever seen! Just keep in mind ... this is your college ~xperience and no one else can make it work like \U\ can. Av-Oiding the Crowd Boy, we sure are crowded up here on the third floor of Old Chapel. In fact, we've anticipated the. onset of acute claustrophobia by mid-October for everyone who works up here, over in Whitaker House and in the Field House. And for all others who feel like helpless members . of the crowd, we don't mean to neglect mentioning you specifically but we d., have a deadline to meet. Ellis Hospital is aware of our changing mental states and has formed a special research committee to study the pending \Dutchman's Disease\ or, in· more scientific terms, \Chronic Construction Claustrophobia.'' However, we at Conce»rdy offer alternatives to an attack of this disease . . . WARD OFF THOSE UPHEAVAL BLUES!! Actually, things aren't as bad as they seem, nor are they as bad as we're making them sound. So, first of all, we'd like to suggest that everyone keep this thought in mind: nothing is oo- bearable and everythingis surmountable. So, how about taking advantage of Autumn in the Adirondacks? That's a sure way to prevent your contacting this unique illness. Go pick some ripe, juicy apples. Spend a day riding your bicycle on the bike trail. Take a weekend in Lake George with your tent andyour longwjohns~ Whatever your fancy, just go and do it!! H you feel a:11 attack coming on-· take off, get up and go! You'll have great time. Do s<>mething new and different this tenn; you'll be glad you did. It's a gt·eat treatment for a bored and tired mind. And you won't get dust·in your lungs. DON'T BE APATHETIC! Get up off the couch and do something with your body and mind.- Go to the STUDENT ACTIVITIES EXPO, Sep- tember 26 - Old Chapel plaza, 2-5 p.m. Raindate: September 27. APPLES GALORE! COMMENTARIES Who Bears the Burden? By MITCHELL JUSTIN STEIN Priorities have a way of creating tension in a small - college. The administative and academic governing bodies of a school are limited ·in finds and manpower to satisfy everyone's needs. They must choose carefully and decide what is best for the institution and its community. The administration's decision to create a new student center at Union was a good one. A new center would involve a great desal of money and work, but the final product would be an asset in many ways to the college. One of the biggest problems faced, was relocating the existing organizations that occupied Carnegie Hall. Offices and facilities have to vacate for close to two years, so that total renovation may take place. Two years is a short time to sacrifice for the upgrading of an important college feature, but, nearly all of the sacrifices have affected the quality of students' life. The SEA Club, Woman's Network, Concordiensis, WRUC · and other organizations have either been left without offices to meet, or have had working .space drastically reduced. Student organizations which would have normally met in one of Carnegie's many meeting rooms are now restricted to a subdivided hall on the third floor of Old Chapel, or classrooms. While the ad- ministration, like others, have been forced to move from Carnegie, their facilities haven't been affected. The administration decided it would be a good idea to take a step back before going forward. Improving the campus is a bonus, but the administration hasn't been encroached upon. The burden of new construction should have been shared equally between students and the administration. They shQuld have been willing to sacrifice like the students~ A single example can be seen in Dr. D'Andrea's move from the two story Whitaker House to the three story North College Residence. This extra floor could have been . used for meeting space, and thus would have alleviated many of the problems now faced by student organizations. lf Dr. D'Andrea felt tqat moving was necessary and justifies, he need only to have looked east to the G.E. Realty plot. A mansion and several large homes, owned by Union; .would have made a fine substitute for the North College Residence, even temporarily, until con- struction was over. This would· have freed up space for student use near the center of campus. It would be naive to believe that the administration could have fully resolved this multifaceted problem. There are many things that could not have been done, but, had the administrations' priority been the students, a better resolution would ·have been found. SORORITY RUSH IS COMING SOON- GET PSYCHED! \ Sign up week for Rush will be Oct. 6-llth. There will be an orientation on Oct. 6th for all those who-want to go through rush. More / information will fo-llow. Dining Spaces 4 t ' . Please also note the following changes in dining-related spaces: Old Chapel (first floor and balcony) will be used as the upperclass dining hall between the hours of 10 AM to 2 PM and 3:30-7:30 PM daily. Hale House Dining Hall will $erve as a replacement for the Dutch ·Pub/Restaurant for daily dining use by the college community. Serving hours will be 10 AM to 2 PM and 4 to 7:30 PM Monday through Friday and 4 PM until clo~ing, Tuesday and Saturday. Hale House Lower Lounge will normally be an ad1unct to the Hale House Dming Room Restaurant between 7 AM and 7:30PM. This room can also be reserved on a limited basis for special college functions such as meetings of the Board of Trustees, -the Alumni council, Annual Fund Phonathons, etc., other dining related spaces are listed bel6w. Milano Lounge Hale House Dining Room 'Old Chapel, 1st Fl. and Balcony Hale House Lower Lounge Old Chapel, 3rd Floor West College All of these spaces should be reserved through Diane Winkler's office, in conjunction with Union College Food Service. MAKE YOURSELF HEARD! WRITE A LEnER TO THE EDITOR LeHers to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis • .. - F1 had pre I Uzz and Mal Altl OnlJ ada1 last min afte and mel 0 the hon tati waf COil \be stm trit but her her a f: dec wh: par he1 hUI the car dai toy hin aff alv let1 wo tov ke« / I ch; tuc 'fer fril ha- go: be1 kn ve: All is au wi de lat pe

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 (!tnttnlrbirnsis Fourukd at { lmon Coii'W~ /877 ------------ -------- Happy New Year! The Editorial Board of Concordiensis welcomes back all students and extends an especially warm greeting to incoming freshmen and transfers. We are excited about starting another new year at good ol' \U\ and are anxious to begin serving the college community as your campus newspaper\ Concordiensis is a forum for news, sports, campus and community events and you should remember that it belongs to you, the student. If you have any suggestions or questions for us, or if you are in- terested in getting involved, feel free to contact us at X6155 or Box 2577 or stop by our office on the third floor of Old Chapel on Tuesday nights. Better yet, stop by our booth this afternoon at the Student Activities Expo. And, because a bright new year is now with us, we encourage everyone (yes, even the most apathetic of students) to sample some of the many varied aspects of life at Union. There are so many sports, academic clubs, social groups and other activities just staring you in the face. What's stopping you? These activities can contribute just as much to your Union experience and your personal growth as classes and parties do. We challenge all students, both new and old, to take interest in the events that affect you, to become active in organizations that interest you and to experience as much of life as you can during your short stay here at Union. In essence, CHALLENGE yourseH! We can all make the 1985-1986 year the best we've ever had and the best Union has ever seen! Just keep in mind ... this is your college experience and no one else can make it work like \U\ can. Avoiding the Crowd Boy, we sure are crowded up here on the third floor of Old Chapel. In fact, we've anticipated the onset of acute claustrophobia by mid-October for everyone who works up here, over in Whitaker House and in the Field House. And for all others who feel like helpless members of the crowd, we don't mean to neglect mentioning you specifically but we do have a deadline to meet. Ellis Hospital is aware of our changing mental states and has formed a special research committee to study the pending \Dutchman's Disease\ or, in more scientific terms, \Chronic Construction Claustrophobia.\ However, we at Concordy offer alternatives to an attack of this disease . . . WARD OFF THOSE UPHEAVAL BLUES! ! Actually, things aren't as bad as they seem, nor are they as bad as we're making them sound. So, first of all, we'd like to suggest that everyone keep this thought in mind: nothing is un- bearable and everything is surmountable. So, how about taking advantage of Autumn in the Adirondacks? That's a sure way to prevent your contacting this unique illness. Go pick some ripe, juicy apples. Spend a day riding your bicycle on the bike trail. Take a weekend in Lake George with your tent and your long-johns. Whatever your fancy, just go end do it!! If you feel an attack coming on-take off, get up and go! You'll have great time. Do something new and different this term; you'll be glad you did. It's a great treatment for a bored and tired mind. And you won't get dust in your lungs. DON'T BE APATHETIC! Get up off the couch and do something with your body and mind. Go to the STUDENT ACTIVITIES EXPO, Sep- tember 26 - Old Chapel plaza, 2-5 p.m. Raindate: September 27. APPLES GALORE! COMMENTARIES Who Bears the Burden? By MITCHELL JUSTIN STEIN Priorities have a way of creating tension in a small college. The administative and academic governing bodies of a schoel are limited in finds and manpower to satisfy everyone's needs. They must choose carefully and decide what is best for the institution and its community. The administration's decision to create a new student center at Union was a good one. A new center would involve a great desal of money and work, but the final product would be an asset in many ways to the college. One of the biggest problems faced, was relocating the existing organizations that occupied Carnegie Hall. Offices and facilities have to vacate for close to two years, so that total renovation may take place. Two years is a short time to sacrifice for the upgrading of an important college feature, but, nearly all of the sacrifices have affected the quality of students' life. The SEA Club, Woman's Network, Concordiensis, WRUC and other organizations have either been left without offices to meet, or have had working space drastically reduced. Student organizations which would have normally met in one of Carnegie's many meeting rooms are now restricted to a subdivided haH on the third floor of Old Chapel, or classrooms. While the ad- ministration, like others, have been forced to move from Carnegie, their faciliti.es haven't been affected. The administration decided it would be a good idea to take a step back before going forward. Improving the campus is a bonus, but the administration hasn't been encroached upon. The burden of new construction should have been shared equally between students and the administration. They should have been willing to sacrifice like the students. A single example can be seen in Dr. D'Andrea's move from the two story Whitaker House to the three story North College Residence. This extra floor could have been used for meeting space, and thus would have alleviated many of the problems now faced by student organizations. If Dr. D'Andrea felt that moving was necessary and justifies, he need only to have looked east to the G.E. Realty plot. A mansion and several large homes, owned by Union, would have made a fine substitute fer the North College Residence, even temporarily, until con- struction was over. This would have freed up space for student use near the center of campus. It would be naive to believe that the administration could have fully resolved this multifaceted problem. There are many things that could not have been done, but, had the administrations' priority been the students, a better reselution would have been found. SORORITY RUSH IS COMING SOON- GET PSYCHED! Sign up week for Rush will be Oct. 6-llth. There will be an orientation on Oct. 6th for all those who want to go through rush. More information will follow. Dining Spaces Please also note the following changes in dining-related spaces: Old Chapel (first floor and balcony) will be used as the upperclass dining hall between the hours of 10 AM to 2 PM and 3:30-7:30 PM daily. Hale House Dining Hall will serve as a replacement for the Dutch Pub/Restaurant for daily dining use by the college community. Serving hours will be 10 AM to 2 PM and 4 to 7:30 PM Monday through Friday and 4 PM until closing, Tuesday and Saturday. Hale House Lower Lounge witl normally be an adjunct to the Hale House Dining Room Restaurant between 7 AM and 7:30 PM. This room can also be reserved on a limited basis for special college functions such as meetings of the Board of Trustees, the Alumni council, Annual Fund Phonathons, etc., other dining related spaces are listed below. Milano Lounge Hale House Dining Room Old Chapel, 1st Fl. and Balcony Hale House Lower Lounge Old Chapel, 3rd Floor West College All of these spaces should be reserved through Diane Winkler's office, in conjunction with Union College Food Service. MAKE YOURSELF HEARD! WRITE A LEnER TO THE EDITOR LeHers to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Ingrid ... ,.v .. -M, Subscriptions lt}ditors Bill Fenstermake1 ~ T'\ .• _ .... _\._ ... ~· Staff: David Bruckman, Ted Cannon, Card.e · · · .. ·. Dirnmlniek, Tony Dunaif, Colleen Dundon, Fred ~1sman, Kim HancQck, Andy HOdgkin, Beth Levine, Ca~y Markes, Joanne McAndtews, Chris Sheridan, Conrad Tatge. Photo Statf: Mike Bowman CON'Cottt>IENSlS is published every Thursciay by the student btXty of Union. College, Carnegie Hall; Sehne<Jtady, New York 12308; Publications Office! S ehanna Publications~ Inc., Box 388,. Sidney, New Yot~ l . ; (607) 563·3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third Class matter every three weekS. Subscription rate: $21 pet year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). (Office telephone-(518)3706155 --- - - - F1 had pre1 Uz2 and Ma1 Altl onl~ adaJ last min afte and me< 0 the hon tati wa1 con \bt: st01 trit but her her a f, dec wh: par l \ he1 hm the car da1 toy hirl I> : aff alv letj wo tov ke~ I ch< tm fer fril ha go: be: kn ve Ar is au ' 1. wi de I at pe

.. ... 'f' I • CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 Page 13 THE ARTS ''Lizzy\' Lights Up Nott By JOJ)I ISRAEL Friday night Union College had the privilege to present the premiere production of Uttle Uzz:v. written by Thomas Mann and adapted for the stage by Mark and Helen Epstein. Although the original story was only nine pages long, Epstein's adaptation contained six sceqes, lasting approximately ninety minutes. A discussion was held afterwards by the cast, Epst~in, and the audience regarding the meaning_ of the pl~y .•. Ostensibly set in Germany in · the 1890's (although quite honestly, much of the adap- tation was timeless), the play was technicaliy about an in- conceivable marriage. A \beauty and the beast\ type story where the physical at- tributes made her the beauty, but her inhwnanity also made her the beast. Amra Jacoby, our heroine villianess 'is married to a fat,.,insecure, and extremely decent lawyer. It is never clear why she married him, although part of the reason surfaces in her desire t9 constantly hruniliate him. He loves her to the exclusion of all else, but she - cannot be bothered to' give a damn. Furthermore, she enjoys toying with him, and keeping him guessing. She carries on an affair throughout the play, but always skirts on the edge of letting her husband find out. He would not make recriminations toward her, but she enjoys keeping him mostly in the dark. If this had been a triangle, the characters may have even- tually worked out their dif- tferences. However Amra had friends-the type of friends who · have nothing better to do than to gossip, the more malicious the better. Sound like anyone yoti know? In this case, a seemingly very private scene lietween Amra and her husband (which is so humiliating that the audience feels guilty for having witnessed it) is portrayed in detail by Amra's friends a day later. Even the audience ex- periences the hwniliation. Amra decided on a final public humiliation for her husband, and planned it with her closest friends~ All involved participated with childish glee, but not Childish innocence. They clearly enjoyed the effect of their actions. Amra's degradation of her husband came off perfectly. She had him dress up as a female and ·sing the song \Little Lizzy\ with the music written by her lover. Her lover wrote the song in such a way that at a certain_ point in the song he and Amra wolild carry on their tfyst in the presence of her husband. This backfired; at that point in the song Herr Jacoby saw them both and the shock killed him. The scariest part of all this was that all those there, Amra in particular, showed no remorse at all. In the discussion after the play, the Ep~teins pointed out, as did remaining members of the· audience, that this play mirrored and prc)phecied. the Nazi uprising by thirty years (the short story was written in 1897). lt did so by- snowing the way everyone went along with the crowd. ])lo \one thought apout the consequences of their ac- tions. Even the \conscience\ of the play, the Jewish doctor, did not do anything, though he knew what the outcome would be. Also, the instigators of the final act did not hesitate to involve teenagers, much like the Nazi youth. The actual production did have its problems. Unfor- tuantely, the cast had little way around them. The biggest difficulty was that the Nott Memoriar is · ·toi.md. The play was not staged for a theater in the round and though I had an excellent view, one-quarter of the audience only had a back view of the final, climactic scene. Also, since much of the dialogue was developed in rehearsal and was not written out, there existed more 1890's · colloquialism than there should have been. The play may have timeless qualities, but it is still setinthe 1890's. In Search -Of Macondo, an 11 informance\ piece that is . part performance and part Anthropological in- formation, will\ run this .afternoon in Old Chapel from 3 to 4 p.m. The show is an informal visual mon- tage, which utilizes mixed media to create a unique entertainment experience. Macondo, a companion piece, will run tomorrow night, September 27th at 7:30 in the Nott Memorial. After the show, Artistic Director Nicol Dreiske will be available for a question and answer period following Macondo, ·and refreshments wi II be .available after both Thursday and Friday's p~rformance . All in all, Union College was privileged to have the Skidmore College Theater performing here at Union. The play was grim, but the audience certainly left with a lot to think about. September is National ''Be Nice to Writers and Editors Month\ · Come by and Hug a Staff Member Noises Off, a hilarious British comedy, starts it's three-night run tonight at 8:00 p.m. at Proctor's Theater. Call 382-1083 for ticket availability and information. Student Fiction . . . ByJ.BEWl~George's Trip\ - \The left-hand bath leads barred my way as I walked A light blinked green and the only to unknown danger. That along the passage. After a good door opened. I moved through much is known of it. No one has distance the lights faded to the open doorway and without ever gone, no one has ever complete darkness. and the hesitation chose the left of the returned. Everyone goes to the corndor led to a w1de empty two passages outside. Huge right. You must understand this space. How far acro~s it was, I steel bars immediately slam- before you are allowed to could not tell. I wa1ted a long med down to prevent me from progress.\ time! listening, but I heard going that way. Everything nothmg an~ resmned my way. became white in my vision, and . \I really want to find out what Then t~e lights came on. I had 1 soon found myself back in the lies down that passage. I will never seen so many cats. They room where I had started. A returrt 'a'S soon as I find out. ;I. ·· formed a loose Circle arolind voice emanated from the room promise this.\ me, watching hungrily from a around me. The Voice seemed to spend distance. No escape possible. \:That is not the way to go._ some time thinking. After a I had a few moments before Everyone goes to the right. You while it grudgingly said, \You they reached me. My only must not think ofthis; you must may go. Return with regr~t was that l hadn't been go to the right without deciding. knowledge. We charge you with stup1d enough to be content. to Everyone goes to the right. Do this. Go.\ don my sweats each mornmg you understand?\ The door opened. No gates and run with the others. \Yes I said, to save myself endless repititions of the same meaningless drivel. This was said after a pause sufficiently long to convince the Voice of my sincerity. It was not hard to fool the Voice. Again, the door opened and I raced outside, down the left- handed branch of corridors . Again the steel thundered down, blocking my way. Again I was returned to the soft white room. Again the Voice chanted its litany. \You cannot be allowed out- side to join the others until you have proved that you can go the right way without hesitation,\ the Voice insisted. \Why?\ I asked for the nth time. Act 1: Steve Sanders & Jim Havard Act II: Evan Pickers with special guest Mystery MC • but NOT Luke Fannon 10:00 Thursday, Sept~ 26 -INTRUSION SYSTEMS -DIGITAL COMM -HIGH FREQUENCY RADIO -MICROWAVE NETWORKS in Old Chapel · OMMUNICATION & ELECTRONIC SYSTEM ENGINEERING -SATELLITE STATIONS -COMPUTER NETWORKS -RADAR SYSTEMS -AIR TRAFFIC SYSTEMS ·TELEPHONE SWITCHING -THE PHONE PLANNING ·NAVIGATIONAL AIDS 485th Engineering Installation Group GRIFFISS AFB, NEW YORK RECRUITERS WILL BE ON CAMPUS 30 OCT 85 INTERVIEWING FOR CIVILIAN POSITIONS AS ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS

- i. • r CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 Page 13 THE ARTS \Lizzy'' Lights Up Nott By JODI ISRAEL Friday night Union College had the privilege to present the premiere production of Little Uzzv. written by Thomas Mann and adapted for the stage by Mark and Helen Epstein. Although the original story was only nine pages long, Epstein's adaptation contained six: scenes, lasting approximately ninety minutes. A discussion was held afterwards by the cast, Epstein, and the audience regarding the meaning_ of the pl~y. ~ Ostensibly set in Germany in the 1890's (although quite honestly, much of the adap- tation was timeless), the play was technically about an in- conceivable marriage. A \beauty and the beast\ type story where the physical at- tributes made her the beauty, but her inhumanity also made her the beast. Amra Jacoby, our heroine villianess is married to a fat,~insecure, and extremely decent lawyer. It is never clear why she married him, although part of the reason surfaces in her desire to constantly humiliate him. He loves her to the exclusion of all else, but she cannot be bothered to give a damn. Furthermore, she enjoys toying with him, and keeping him guessing. She carries on an affair throughout the play, but always skirts on the edge of letting her husband find out. He would not make recriminations toward her, but she enjoys keeping him mostly in the dark. If this had been a triangle, the characters may have even- tually worked out their dif- ferences. However Amra had friends-the type of friends who have nothing better to do than to gossip, the more malicious the better. Sound like anyone you know? In this case, a seemingly very private scene between Amra and her husband (which is so humiliating that the audience feels guilty for having witnessed it) is portrayed in detail by Amra's friends a day later. Even the audience ex- periences the humiliation. Amra decided on a final public humiliation for her husband, and planned it with her closest friends. All involved participated with childish glee, but not childish innocence. They clearly enjoyed the effect of their actions. Amra's degradation of her husband came off perfectly. She had him dress 1:1p as a female and sing the song \Little Lizzy\ with the music written by her lover. Her lover wrote the song in such a way that at a certain point in the song he and Amra would carry on their tryst in the presence of her husband. This backfired; at that point in the song Herr Jacoby saw them both and the shock killed him. The scariest part ofall this was that all those there, Amra in particular, showed no remorse at all. In the discussion after the play, the Epsteins pointed o1:1t, as did remaining members of the audience, that this play mirrored and prophecied the Nazi uprising by thirty years (the short story was written in 1897). It did so by showing the way everyone went along with the crowd. No one thought a pout the consequences of their ac- tions. Even the \conscience\ of the play, the Jewish doctor, did not do anything, though he knew what the outcome would be. Also, the instigators of the final act did not hesitate to involve teenagers, much like the Nazi youth. The actual production did have its problems. Unfor- tuantely, the cast had little way around them. The biggest difficulty was that the Nott Memorial is round. The play was not staged for a theater in the round and though I had an excellent view, one-quarter of the audience only had a back view of the final, climactic scene. Also, since much of the dialogue was developed in rehearsal and was not written out, there existed more 1890's colloquialism than there should have been. The play may have timeless qualities, but it is still set in the 1890's. In Search Of Macondo1 an 11 informance// piece that is part performance and part Anthropologica I in- formation/ will run this afternoon in Old Chapel from 3 to 4 p.m. The show is an informal visual mon- tage/ which utilizes mixed media to create a unique entertainment experience. Macondo, a companion piece, wi II run tomorrow night, September 27th at 7:30 in the Nott Memorial. After the show, Artistic Director Nicol Dreiske wi II be available for a question and answer period following Macondo, and refreshments will be available after both Thursday and Friday's performance. All in all, Union College was privileged to have the Skidmore College Theater performing here at Union. The play was grim, but the audience certainly left with a lot to think about. September is National ''Be Nice to Writers and Editors Month\ Come by and Hug a Staff Member Noises Off, a hilarious British comedy, starts it's three-night run tonight at 8:00p.m. at Proctor's Theater. Call 382·1083 for ticket availability and information. Student Fiction . . . ByJ.BEU~'George's Trip\ A light blinked green and the door opened. I moved through the open doorway and without hesitation chose the left of the two passages outside. Huge steel bars immediately slam- med down to prevent me from going that way. Everything became white in my vision, and I soon found myself back in the room where I had started. A voice emanated from the room around me. \That is not the way to go. Everyone goes to the right. You· must not think of this; you must go to the right without deciding. Everyone goes to the right. Do you understand?\ \Yes I said, to save myself endless repititions of the same meaningless drivel. This was said after a pause sufficiently long to convince the Voice of my sincerity. It was not hard to fool the Voice. Again, the door opened and I raced outside, down the left- handed branch of corridors. Again the steel thundered down, blocking my way. Again I was returned to the soft white room. Again the Voice chanted its litanv. \You cannot be allowed out- side to join the others until you have proved that you can go the right way without hesitation,'' the Voice insisted. \Why?\ I asked for the nth time. \The left-hand bath leads barred my way as I walked only to unknown danger. That along the passage. After a good much is known of it. No one has distance the lights faded to ever gone, no one has ever complete darkness and the returned. Everyone goes to the corridor led to a wide empty right. You must understand this space. How far across it was, I before you are allowed to could not tell. I waited a long progress.\ time, listening, but I heard ''I really want to find out what lies down that passage. I will return as soon as I find out. I promise this.\ The Voice seemed to spend some time thinking. After a while it grudgingly said, \You may go. Return with knowledge. We charge you with this. Go.\ The door opened. No gates nothing and resumed my way. Then the lights came on. I had never seen so many cats. They formed a loose circle around me, watching hungrily from a distance. No escape possible. I had a few moments before they reached me. My only regret was that I hadn't been stupid enough to be content to don my sweats each morning and run with the others. Act I: Steve Sanders & Jim Havard Act II: Evan Pickers with special guest Mystery MC • but NOT Luke Fannon 10:00 Thursday, Sept. 26 ·INTRUSION SYSTEMS DIGITAL COMM HIGH FREQUENCY RADIO · MICRDWA VE NETWORKS in Old ChCipel · OMMUNICATION & ELECTRONIC SYSTEM ENGINEERING ·SATELLITE STATIONS COMPUTER NETWORKS RADAR SYSTEMS ·AIR TRAFFIC SYSTEMS TELEPHONE SWITCHING TELEPHONE PUNNING NAVIGATIIJN H AIDS 485th Engineering Installation Group GRIFFIS$ AFB, NEW YORK RECRUITERS WILL BE ON CAMPUS 30 OCT 85 INTERVIEWING FOR CIVILIAN POSITIONS AS ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS

I . Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 This is your ticket to the best kept· secret in town ... e 8Jtoppe* is offering 15% Off your next purchase. Come see us for great fall fashions by Esprit, JouJou·, Organically Grown, Regarde ... let's not keep it a secret anyomore 133 Canal Square 370-4288 Must bring in ad to receive discount When in town visit our Saratoga store- right next door to Barclay's --- -FO\iiRSEASONS'CliiNESiiRiSTA-URANTl Phone: 393-5440/393m5441 Hours:.Sun-Thu 11:30-10:00 f Specialize in Canton~ Fn-sat n :3o-n :oo I . ...,_., Closed Mond~ys I \ Szechuau & Hunan Ta~eoutor Eat In l \ We prept1re our foods wtth ••• · Just 11 Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking .Distance 10% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student I .. D .. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn t~Cial-. ••a-·-·-·-·-·-•-• ••••••- a••-•-•-•••••- i ••••-• -·-·-·-·-•-•• JOIN THE - UNION RIDING CLUB Ride for Fun or lntercollegiately * Expert Instruction * DISCOUNT RATES For Union Students * Group Rates 'Available Those interested in ioining Riding Club: Meeting on September 30 ~t 7:30PM in Old Chapel For Information about riding for fun, group. rates and discounts: Contact: Audrey at BALLYBA Y FARMS 861-6725 Only 15 Minutes from Campus or Lorraine Marra in STUDENTS ACTIVITIES Office in Old Chapel . -\ . AnENTIONI Freshmen and in- - dependent men interested \'· . in fraternity I ife: A rush convocation will be held in your honor, Tuesday, october 1 7:30 p.m. in-OJd Chapel . If you plan to join a fraternity, you should ' attend this meeting. GET PSYCHED FOR TRI-DELTA'S 5K RACE SUNDAY, SEPT. 29TH 11:00 A.M. All proceeds go to the Leukemia Society of America. Applications available at Student Activities or Tri-Delta. . FOR MORE INFO CALL AMY: 370-6606 OR 382-9216 NY Style Deli TRY OUR OUTDOOR CAFE! . . ~~~T~l? STAt;~ I)~LI NEW HOURS Open Mon.·Frl. 8 a.m.·8 p.m. saturday at 8 a.m •. -5 p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382-5493

( CONCORDIENSIS, September 26,1985 PAPA CICCO'S PIZZA LARGE PARTIES ARE OUR SPECIALTIES CALL US, LET'S MAKE A DEAL. Page 15 374-4332 Watch for our radio dispatched delivery truck which enables us to give you 10 MINUTE DELIVERY s·ervice. Call us and we wUI send our well stocked truck to your location. WE DELIVER FREE SUNDAY IS SODA DAY AT PAPA CICCO'S with every order over $5.00 you will receive a FREE 32 oz. COKE. Calzo.nes White Pizza Gourmet Pizza Hot Sandwiches Specialty Breads PLAY the coupon game. For every $5.00 worth of mer- chandise you will rece·ive one coupon. Save them and collect FREE merchandise. TRY OUR FAMOUS BROCCOLI PIZZA N0w '(UU c·an have two of t.he IIIOtH rec:ogniz~d and cl·,·epted .:tt:dttc.&rJ~ l.n the world ..• V[~A.a> <~nd f>Luoto:r,·ar•i./l.. ,;retllt <.:at'Ja .... \in yJuC nawc:\ EVi.'.N lF YOU Ail~ NI!W ill CR£1Ht o.r HAVC: IH::~ 1'\HUI!!.D 00\IN titFO!it:l ·------------------..-.---· un:DITGETTI~R, BOX 291584, DAVIE,FL 333291 --- ·---· ----·------ .• =YES! I Wdllt vrsl;'HasterCardtl><.:redit I 31 c,trds. Enl:_!vs~d find $15 which is 100% 1 II refundab lt:. if not approv~d immediately I a 1 vI ;,,a.-lfl <11'\d H, .. I<! [ (' ·\ •l.fiJ ll.ll ll I credlt 1 ·,uJs yuu do?.tHli'Voo and llt:c:d t\r • !IJ * B0·•KS II N---AME ----· 1 • Dl::f>Al\TI1t.NT S l'OIU:$ * E l T! llN * t.~TERTA I ~iMl::biT • t::Ht.l:fu ENCY CA.:iH * rr cKns ~ IU!:~ rAURAtlTs m 1 * HOTul.~ ~ tWH.:LS .., CAS • CAll. Rr:N1A.L$ 11 1\l:.l'AIK.S ~~ -·-·-- -- I .. \ 1 ADCJI(t3,) *MD 'fl) BUILll 'tOtJi Cl\EDlf &AflNGI ~~ I Tlllb 1:.. tht! cri!dit: ..:urd inrun!Hitiou kit till1Ut!l\l6 h<.~Vt! f! ----·------ J. t..·eu readin~ abool 1n j•ub11c .. l.Lcmo t rom c\''\t l\ il CITY STATf liP J CLJ.H•t aud tndudeo SPECIAL STlll•I·NT Al'i'I.Ji:,yl.!_l~t:!:-!_ ru• MaBLt'1·C~rd & Vttia'a~--weii·:,.~~- ~l,Ll;t!r hdt..lv!l<d ll -------- I chu~e card!i. Approval dbtwtuto::l y ~Ll<H!Ihlt!<=d tW II Pt-tGt._.E SOC SECURITY - I liurry ••.• ti:l aur: tid\ rdrd t.,.!.iy .... IJ .. ----·----------- -... _ _I Your crt:d1t .:arJa ue Wdic.. L>lKI Jd SIC.;NATLJI~t I L.-110..-4 ......... - .............. ~.._........, _________ . ____________ ·-·-- ·----·--- ·--·--- .. -.-----·-\·--- ----- ------- ........ ... Are you considering professional school? HARVARD UNIVERSITY JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOLOFGOVERNMrnNT Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. Come Ltarn About Harvard's Two-Year Master's Program in Public Policy, Leading to either the Mast\ in PubUc Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. SAU.. Y SACHAR MEET WITH: Assistant to the Director Public Polley Program DATE: Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2-3, 3-4 groups CONTACT: YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! Joint Degree Programs Offered with Harvard's other Professional Schools. Generous Cross-Registration Privileges with otlter Schools. \· ; SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT HAPPEN.~ \ l' HAIR DESIGN Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. · 382-7956 -· Student Discounts STUDENT SPECIAL THRU OCT. 10 $12.00 HAIRCUTS * We carry a full line of Nexus and Sebastian hair care products. 25% off r~tail with student I D.

Page 16 FELLOWSHIPS AND INTERNSHIPS ~The AI.nerican Symphony Orchestra League is looking for students for its Orchestra Management Fellowship Program. The program co~- bines love of mustc, management, and com- munication skills. Application deadline is November 12, 1985. -The New York State Assembly Intern program of- fers two programs in Albany. The Session Intern Program gives college students a chance to work in the state govern- ment. The Graduate Scholars Program is a full-time research position with Assembly leaders. Deadline is October 25, 1985. There will be an information session on October 1, 1:00 p.m., in the Career Development Center. -The New York State Senate Session Assistants Program is intended for students interested in state government. Applicants The ncket Booth is now located in Old Chapel, first floor. Just a remindea·: Ou•· ticket booth is a · •·emote ticket booth for Proctor's Theat- e•·. Any member of the college community can purchase tickets for any per- fo•·mance at Proctor's. ATTENTION SENIORS Sign up for your pictu•·es Sept. 20th, in Student Activities Offi\ce. Old Chapel 3rd Floor SiHing Dates: Oct. 9-18 CONCORDIENSJS, September 26, 1985 must be a resident citizen of New York State, and attending a New York University. Application deadline is October 14, 1985. -The Metropolitan Museum of Art offers graduate fellowships to outstanding students in the fields of Greek and Roman art of fine arts. Application deadline is November 22, 1985. -Three-year graduate fellowships in science and engineering fields are offered by the National Science Foundation. Applicants must be U.S. citizens who have not received an advanced degree in science or engineering. Application deadline is November 15, 1985. -Japan's Ministry of Education Funds offers up to 150 English Teaching Assistanships in Japan. Assistants will be involved in classroom duties as well as social obligation. Foreign language study, English skills, and an interest in Japan is needed. -The Landmark Society of Western New York offers a nine-month internship position for college graduates. Priority will be given to those interested in history, art history, fine arts, horticulture, or museology. A stipend is provided. -The Statewide Youth Advocacy offers three in .. ternships for students in- terested in child welfare and public policy. It is a six month program based 'in Rochester with a small stipend provided. Research areas may be in youth employment, health care, welfare benefits, and aftercare. -The American Academy in Rome offers fellowships for study of the fine arts and humanities in Rome, The program provides an annual stipend, travel allowance, room, studio, and most meals. -The Metropolitan Museum of Art offers summer and academic year internships. The program is designed for students interested in muse urn studies. It provides career training and academic credit may be arranged. CAREeR NEWS There are several Graduate Business Schools and Law Schools which will be visiting the Career Development Center to meet with interested students during fall term. Sign up at the Career Development Center for an interview time slot before Monday, September 30. The Dow Jones Newspaper will again be offering in- ternships for the summer of 1986. For more information, call the Concordiensis office at x6155. FINANCIAL AID -The Scholarship Research Institute of Washington, D.C. is offering (3) $1000 scholarships. Applicants must meet the following minimum criteria: undergraduate, full time student, GPA of 2.0 or above. For application and in- formation, students should send a self addressed stamped en- velope to:. Scholarship Research Institute, P~o. Box 50157, Washingtonf DC 20004. The deadline for .application is December 16, 1985. .-International Co~puter Programs, Inc. announce a scholarship up to $5000 for students enrolled in a computer science or computer technology program. Sophomores or juniors with at least a \B\ GPA who demonstrate a need of financial assistance should apply by November 15, 1985 for the 1986-1987 academic year. BUDWEISERI!>•KING OF BEERS®•ANHEUSER·BUSCH,INC;•ST. LOUIS Contact Magda Mininberg, Assistant Director of Financial Aid for more information. -The Nation;:tl Space Club will award a $7,500 scholarship for 1986-87 in memory ofDr. Robert H. Goddard, America's rocket pioneer. The applicant must be at least a junior and have the intention of pursuing. un- dergraduate or graduate studies in science or eng!neering during 1986-87. Deadline is Januacy 17, 1986 for the 1986-87 academic year. -ZONTA Amelia Earhart Fellowship Awards in the amotint of $5000 will be made to thirty women studying in an aerospace related field on the graduate level. Deadline: December 31, 1985 for the 1986- 87 academic year. . -NaUonal Science Foundation · graduate · and milwrity fellowships in the amount of an $11,000 stipend and a $6000 cost- of-education allowance open to persons at or near the beginning of their graduate study in the science fields. Deadline: November 15, 1985 for the 1986- 87 academic year. More information available in the Financial Aid Office. Contact Magda M. Mininberg, Assistant · Director. on p, Gl \2 7:: - ( N4 M Jo bE if Oil si te M St F1 Cl S1 5 R :M a1 R pi Y•

.. CONCORDIENSIS, September 16, 1985 ~age 17 The Fibn Conunittee presents on Sept. 27-29 \MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL\ at 7, 9, 11 and on Oct. 2 \2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY\ at 7:30, 10. CLUB NEWS Newman Party & Open House- Monday, September 30 at Sr. Joan's Home 1630 Nott Street, beginning at 7 p.m. Call37o-6087 if you need transportation. It is one mile! Newman Folk Group-All singers and musicians in- terested in being part of ·the Music Ministry at the 7:30p.m. Sunday Luturgy meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Newman Overnight Retreat- September 27-28 from Friday at 5 until Saturday at 5 p.m. Retreat Theme; Relationships- Myself, God, Others. To lie held at St. Anthony-on-Hudson, Rensselaer. Transportation provided. Donation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. Jewish Student Union presents \Brunch and Build;' Sukkot Celebration in Jackson's Garden Sunday, 30th, at 2:00 p.m. HELP ·wANTED Veterinary Hospital seeks responsible person for part- time poSition. Call 370-3736 for more information. Any interested in Women's Rugby, join us at practice 4 p.m. Mpn,,.Fri. at the flagpole. Part-time position available for college student to represent travel company on campus. Earn commission, free travel and work experience. Contact: Beachcomber Tours, Inc., 1325 Millersport Highway, Williamsville, New York 14221. (716) 632-3723. International Publications is sponsoring a National College Poetry Contest open to all college and university students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. CASH PRIZES will go to the top five poems: $100, $50; $25, $15, $10. For more information contact Con- cordiensis. · HELP NEEDED! Concerned for the Hungry--a local organization--is in need of volunteers to help sort food at Bellevue Reformed Church, · 2000 Broadway Oct. 5 from 12~ and Oct. 6 from 1-5. Please call 346~445 if you can spare any time for a very good cause. Writers are invited to submit manuscripts for Jesse Jackson, A National Portrait in Poetry, a volume of poems com- memorating the first African American's run for the\ American Presidency. Manuscripts should be quality submissions of any length, in any writing style. Preference is for those which express sub- CLASSlr:irEDS stantive ideas with unusual =· =· ·=· ·==· Lf\==· ·=· ::::: -==·::;· beauty; evidence a disciplined command of language, and are consonant in spirit with the life and times of the individual they honor. They may deal with any aspect of candidate Jackson's rise to national prominence. Awards: $100 and publication. Initial deadline: December 31, 1985. No returns without SASE. Mail to: Ett~ M. Ladson, Editor, FOUR WINDS PRESS, Box 109, Laurelton, New York 11413. T$'ping-Done by executive secretary, top-quality results. $LOOper page. Call Judy at 399- 3383. Anyone interested in corresponding with an inrrlate of a medium security correc- tional facility, looking for \sincere honest com- munication to maintain my softside,\ can write to: Bill Milan 85A2608, P.O. Box 975, Coxsackie, NY 12051. The University Choral of the State University of New York at Albany is open to residents of the Capital District and surrounding areas. Any singers interested need only report for rehearsals Tuesdays and Thursdays from 4:15 to 5:35 p.m. in room 78 of the Per- forming Arts Center (basement level) on the uptown Albany campus, 1400 Washington Avenue across from Thruway House Hotel. The University Chorale is a 10();.voice mixed choir. For more information, singers should call David Janower at 442-4167. College students interested in preparing for and improving their career options and op- portunities will find the newsletter \Strategy For Success\ to be of immense value. For information on how you can receive a FREE SUBSCRIPTION of \Strategy For Success\ write Reid Graphics, P.O. Box 626, Manor, PA 15665. LOANS~ ARRANGED: Debt consolidation business, expansion, mortgages, venture capital, aircraft an·d marine financing, farm and agricultural, -trucking, theatrical productions - stage - screen - TV video, educational, inventions, franchises, mining,oil drilling, casino and entertainment palaces, hotels, motels, Spanish Table Meets Mondays for Lunch at · 12:30 - Hale· House * • • ~ ...... -~ • \· ... , .~ ·~ .. ··\ rancbes, .. or for any sound purpose in- ...._ ___________ ..... eluding atbitr~ge lending and Barter SOPHOMORES! Science or Engineering Maiors . Are you mterested in a year of studies in Switzerland? Now is the time to apply! If you are Dean's List and have enough Ger- man or if you are willing to take German for the winter and spring terms and then to take an intensive Goethe Institute Course in Germany, you are eligible to apply for the one nominated Union student for 1985·86 year at the \M.I.T.'' of Europe. This honor is recorded on your file at Union College. Please inquire of prof. Martin in chemistry at the Science and Engineering Center soon! Jan Ludwig ••• Continued from page 4 than to a · distribution requirement as we at Union understand that term. Of course none of us will ever be com- pletely educated, but we ought to leave college less ignorant than when we started, able and eager to continually decrease our ignorance. Please aHend an Organizational Meeting for t~e International ,Relations Club Tonite at 7:00p.m. 55 110 For more information Call Alison at 377·3588 . FR ES\tf\1A tf HEY L.AF..R Y ! I-lOW YA Dot N: Yov 1516 LUG • 1 ~T trading. $1 Billion & up. Write in confidence complete details of your needs, or if in a hurry call 203-848-8552. BATES BUSINESS CONSULTANTS 123 Maple Ave., P.O. Box 233, Mon1ville, Conn. 06353, U.S.A. Telex cable address ''BATFI N'' We are the only money service in the world ·(that we kno~ of) that serves borrowers 24 hours per day (8 p.m.- 9 a.m. recorded service) 365 days a year. u you too wish to become an associate loan arranger, write or call Bates/Sorrentino for details. BoY DID I HAVE. AN J . E.XC JTING SuMMER l 1 i wo~<.kf:D 1rJ A FAc:.:roi(Y. .! EVEN MET A &I~L I Bu-r SH:t:.. I>!DN'T LikE. ME.' . ~~ OI-l I RI~HT! Ti-lE. /..ITit..E. sl<!NtvY ki])/ \. BUi'. ri $U~.E IS. GroD -ro 8 E. B,Ac. t-::_1 ~6 MEM5E:R ALL 11-\E 6<l1D liME/.> wE. HAP? \f'!-I!S Y~K I$ ~OIN(? : 0 R::T] .~ YEAH.~ •.. T LJHO AR£ YOU? . \ ~t;;MfMBER w~rJ I USED -ro sEAl '(ou c.Jf'~ T

. •' Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 SEMESTER ft JeiV THE WORLD I S Y 0 U R C A M. P US VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 .JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370•3257 8Renani!Ja118 Hair Designs Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Spain. Our lOOday voyages sail in January and September offering 12-15 transferable hours of credit from more than 50 voyage- related courses. . WELCOME BACK UNION!. 2 for ·1 HAIRCUTS The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American-built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. For details call toll-free (800) 854 .. 0195 or write: Semester at. Sea Institute for Shipboard Education University of Pittsburgh, 2E Forbes Quadrangle Pittsburgh, PA 15260 Reg. $10. Now $5.00 Each - with this coupon valid thru Oct. 20 MON.-FRI. 9-9 SAT. 9-6 372-0007 519 UNION ST. Get our ne~ $49* software module when you buy an HP-41. It's a d.~al that has no equal, for a calculator that has no equal. . . · SCH'DY Our new HP-41 Advantag~ software module packs 12K of ROM. One and a half times the capacity of any other HP-41 module. Large enough to hold the most popular engineering, mathematical and financial pro- grams ever written for the HP-41. · . \ .. Yol.l get comprehensive .advanced ~atn~ tnath ~unc-. tions, roots of equations and polynomials, mtegrat10ns, base conversion and logic functions, and time value of money functions . . · .. ·. , , ... · module isJllso sub-programmable. So you . · · just a, portion of a program, or trans- 5~<~t,io· ,Ii,l.· . to yolJI' own program. · even menu-driven. That eliminates overlays \'\\'\''\' rrn.• n:um~r of prompts. . . · . get everything it's going to take to help .. eyecything from Linear ftlgebra El~~ctr. ·onl . . to Statics and Dynatn1cs. · is a deal aU its own. Its operating Sd advanced, it doesn't need an \equals\ 4 ·wonder ifs preferred by more engiJ;):eers ,· · • . calculator. . ' · ·· limited time offer. Call (800) FOR- for Dept. 658B. We;ll instantly give , .·of a dealer who has no equaL , · phone call is free. module wont be .for long. H'EWL.ETT PACKARO -··-· -· -· •. -· ··-··----·-· -· ---- I'm a student who has no equal Here's my proof-of-purchase to prove it. Please send me my free software module. Name Address City State Phone Number HP-4.1 Serial Number Mail coupon with proof-of-purchase to: Hewlett-Packard Co., c/o Direct Mail Projects/M·M, P. 0. Box 10598, Portland, Oregon 97209 Zip Offer not redeemable at HP dealer. HP·41 must be purchased between 8/15/85 and 11/15/85. Envelopes must be postmarked by 12/31/85. Good only in U.S.A. Void where prohibited, taxed or restricted by law. HP employee purchases not eligible. Allow 6·8 weeks for delivery. t· R If club indi< the 1 Unic out. Tt pion witt Han the }II lead SUC( pem settl first the this bacl Jl doui the witl fror Jus1 hall potl of sho sco: boo hav de£1 his the SM ad' ran an<

CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985. Page 19 Rugby Opens In Usual Style By CHRIS SHERIDAN Sports Staff If. Union's rugby football club's opening game was any indication of the games to come, the rest of the Upstate Rugby Union's league had better look out. The defending URU cham- pion continued its dominance with a 21-3 thrashing of Hamilton, last Saturday, during the Ruggers' opening contest. }Iamilton took a quick 3-0 lead, after a Hamilton Rugger successfully booted a 45 yard penalty kick. Instead of up- setting the Union ruggers, this first score just seemed to light the fire under their feet. From this point on, they never looked back. Junior hooker Dave Blee, who doubles as Union's kicker, tied the game up at three soon after with a 30 meter penalty kick from a near-impossible angle. Just before the end of the first half, the fans had the op- portunity to watch the first act of the Tim \Smiley\ Riley show. \Smiley's\ patented scoring run started after he booted the ball forward only to have it bounce off a Hamilton defender and deflect back into his arms. Seemingly fueled by the crowd chanting, \GO SMILEY, GO! , \ Riley took advantage of the situation and ran, swiveled, swerv.ed, glided, and accelerated around and through Hamilton's defense 70 meters down the field for a try. Dave Blee converted the try for two points right before the whistle to end the half putting Union ahead 9-3. In the second half, Bill Magnato put Union ahead by fourmore after a brilliant try of his own. Dave Blee orice again converted the try for a 15•3 lead. Act two of. the \Smiley\ Riley show put the icing on the cake for the ruggers, as the .senior twisted and turned once agains for another try--somehow making it look easy. With a 19-3 lead, Dave Blee converted his third try of the game-making · the final score 21-3. Union's senior captain John Friske, who seemingly put the name ' 1 physical\ into the game of rugby, had several bone- crunching hits throughout the game-putting. added· pressure to Hamilton's linet Another hard-hitter was Ron Amidon, who would just as soon run over people while carrying the ball himself as run over opposing players who had the ball. High jumping Jeff Albrecht pulled down his share of line outs, managing to outjump his op- ponent almost every time. Co- Captain Jeff Wilson also helped better Union's cause by setting up the line with several great passes from his serum-half position. Steve Konlian added a few great runs of his own to the line. Union's Killer B team was equally as successful in their rnatchup•-pouncing on Hamilton's B-team, shutting them out 13-0. Pat DiCierbo scored the first three points of the game as he belted a penalty kick from a difficult angle. After that, Tom Muzzonigro proved himself to· be a gifted runner, scoring twice in the gam~. Both were excellent tuns, originating close to the try zone. He- sprinted and spun his way to rack up a total of eight points for the Killer B's. DiCierbo converted Muz- zonigro's .first try but missed the attempt at his second to round out the game's final score at 13-o. Robert McGowan was a terror on the tackling side of the game for the B's while Rich Allen and Josh Waldman both showed off their running skills. The Killer B's were plagued with injuries during their contest. Rookie wing-forward Bruce Schwartzman was sfdelined because of an ankle injury. He should be returning to the lineup after about a week or so. Evan Collins got his bell rung in the first half after being knocked senseless by a herd of Hamilton ruggers. Though badly shaken by the play, he did not suffer a concussion and is already back in the lineup. The ruggers take on Siena this Saturday at horne. SPORTS Athlete of the Week v By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Editor The 1985 fall term's first athlete of the week honors belong to David Tewksbury. Tewksbury has been superb in each of the first two victories .for the men's soccer team this Dave Tewksbury season. In the season opener versus Cortland State, the sophomore striker netted one goal and assisted on two others as Union recorded a 6-1 win. Then, this past Saturday in the team's first horne game, Tewksbury ignite~ the team's offense making the score 1..0. Later in the second half, in which the Dutchmen tallied five goals, he was able to score another goal and an assist as Union capped off a 7..;() trouncing of Kings Point. Last season, Tewksbury was the team's fourth leading scorer and its most valuable freshman. Hailing from Livonia, NY, he was twice chosen AU-Livingston County, All-Greater Rochester, and All-New ,York State, and was a candidate for All- America. Tewksbury's scoring efforts have enabled the number one ranked soccer team in New York State to continue its winning ways. He is looking forward to another trip the the NCAA playoffs this season. David Tewksbury is a biology major and plans to become a doctor. Sophomore Rich Allen shows brute strength as he tackles members of both teams in ruggers recent win over Hamilton. FRESHMEN or anyone else interested in CHEERLEAD lNG There will be a short organizational meeting today, September 26 at 4:00 p.m. We will meet in front of Alumni Gym to discuss try-outs. if interested but unable to attend, please contact Amy Sirkin or Sue Morse at 382-9216. INTRAMURAL$ The following is a listing. of this Fall's Special Events offered by the Union College Intramural Department: Men's Sports Cross Country Run Billiards Field Goal Kicking Foosball Foul Shooting Women's Sports cross Country Run Foul Shooting Co-Ree Sports Foosball Foul Shooting Entries Due Sept. 30 Sept. 25 Oct.l Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Entries Due Sept. 30 Oct. 14 Entries Due Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Entry forms are available in the Intramural Office x6119.

.... Ill 0.. >- .c 0 +- 0 .c a. Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, September 26, 1985 SPORTS GA~N.ET SCO~EBOARD FOOTBALL (2·0) Gridders Throttle Rochester Union 28 Union 7 Union6 MEN'S SOCCER (2·0) Rochester' 0 Kings PointO Cortland 1 By TED CANNON Sports Staff Once again defense was the name of the game last Satur- day, as the Dutchmen defensive core posted its second con- secutive shutout and carne up with three turnovers that led to three Union touchdowns. In the first quarter, an in- terception by senior Joe Waters gave Union a first and ten on the Rochester 34. One play ·later, sophomore quarterback 'Mike Gargiulo, found senior flanker Pete Cohan streaking down the middle for Union's first score. With 13:02 remaining in the second quarter, sophomore tailback Darrell Shepherd bolted in from 5 yards out to put the Dutchmen up 14-0. Still in the second quarter, dophomore defensive end Rich Romer hammered · the Yellowjacket quarterback causing a fumble. Senior defensive end Pete Corkery pounced on the ball giving Union a first and ten from the Rochester 11. Once again, only one play later, junior tailback Todd Walker scampered the 11 yards for the score. Freshman placekicker Blake Henderson connected on his third of four conversions on the day to make the count 21>-() at the half. Union's final tally came in the fourth quarter after a Rich Romer interception and five yard return. With a first and ten from the Rochester 26, and again wasting no time, only one play later, sophomore quar- terback Jay Wood hit sophomore flanker Cecil Bright down the right sideline to cap Union's scoring. Junior Tailback Todd Walker rushes past Rochester defenders in Saturday's game. · X-CountryTakes2nd By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff The Union Dutchmen laun- ched their 1985 cross country campaign with a strong second place finish out of eleven teams at the Stony Brook Invitational this past Saturday on Long Island. The Union harriers opened their season without two of their top runners due to injuries but the slack was taken up nicely by Senior newcomer Ed Hart and Sophomore Jim Orcutt and Junior Mike Reed are out temporarily with a hip and knee injury respectively and are expected to be running again within the next two weeks. Because of Hart and LeBron's strong performance on Saturday, Orcutt and Reed's return, the Dutchmen will have a depth; which will help them throughout the season. Another positive aspect of the team's performance was the small amount of time between the first and fifth runners' finishes. The 1: 14 that seperated the first and fifth runners is expected to become even smaller when Orcutt and Reed return. Placing first for Union was Senior Billy McRoberts who was third with a time of 27:22 followed by Senior Chris O'Donnell in 6th place clocking a time of. 27:42. Junior Bob Stenard was Union's third man in 14th pl~ce with a time of 28:22. The rest of the Union squad managed to place within the top twenty with Hart, LeBron, and Junior Neal Ricks finishing 18th, 19th, and 20th respectively. In the women's meet the Dutchmen were unable to field a full team but got three fine performances out of those that were entered. Sophomore Jenny Lee headed the list for Union with a fifth place finish overall clocking a time of 22:00. Junior Amy Walsh finished ninth with a time of 22: 22 and Freshman Lori Anderson just missed finishing in the top· 20, finishing 23rd with a time of 24:37. Though the lady Dutchmen do not have a full team, these in- dividual performances should be encouraging to each athlete and they can look forward to a successful season. . The men's team does not get back into action until a week from this Saturday when they compete in the Lemoyne Invitational at Lemoyne University and the women compete this Friday at Siena. *SUPPORT* UNION SPORTS The Dutchmen offense has been effective in both games but really showed signs of im- provement against Rochester. Gargiulo was nine of 18 for 118 yards and continues to pick up valuable playing experience. The real story this year, however, is the Dutchmen defense. To go along with the three other turnovers, junior Dale Bajcer and senior Reinhardt Walker also picked up interceptions. In two ga:mes, the defense has produced nine tunrovers and has allowed only 148.5 yards per game. The defense, which doesn't have a glaring weakness, revolves around senior linebackers Pat Wright and Louis Hughes. Both backers have been instrumental in accounting for Union's having given up an average of only 37 yards per game on the ground. This week the Dutchmen play host to the Colby Mules. Last week Colby lost to Hamilton 58- 10. Colby, however, is only one of .two teams to have . ever beaten Union on its \turf.\ Mt. Holyoke 4 Marihattanville 5 WOMEN'S SOCCER (.2·2) WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL (5·4) Union 15·1, 10·15, 15·11 Union 15·13, 15·8 COIQate 9 Union 3 Union 7 WOMEN'S TENNIS (0·3) FI'ELD HOCKEY (3·0) DUTCHMEN SPORTSWE.EK September 26- October 2 Thursday, 9126 Women's Tennis at Vassar J .V .. Men's Soccer vs. Albany Pharmacy Women's Soccer at B.inghamton Men's Cross country at Colgate Friday9/27 Women's Tennis vs. Middlebury Field Hockey vs. Middlebury Saturday 9/28 Women's Volleyball at Russell sage Men's Soccer at Binghamton J.V. Men's Soccer at Binghamton Women's Soccer vs. Siena Freid Hockey vs. Rochester Monday 9/30 Women's Tennis vs. Castleton J .v. Men's Football.at Middlebury Tuesday 10/1 Women's Volley.ball at s·iena J .v. Men1s Soccer vs. Hartwh;:k Wednesday 1 0/2 Women·•s Tennis vs. ·Oneonta Men's Soccer at Albany State Field Ho~key vs. Oneonta Union 1 Union4 New Paltz 2 Vassar Union o Skidmore2 Russel Sage 1 5:00 4:00 4:00 1:00 4:00 4:00 10:00 2:00 12:00 11:00 7:00 3:30 3;00 4:00 ,3:30 3:30 3:.30 3:30 • • • defeat Kings Point and Cortland· State - Boobnen Trounce in· First Two ByADAMFALK AND BOB CRANDALL Sports Staff The Dutchmen Booters opened up the 1985 campaign with two victories over Cortland and Kings Point. Union began the season with a decisive 6-1 victory over Cor- tland State. Cortland entered the contest ranked fifth in New York State and figured to be a difficult opponent for the Dutch- men. Two early first half goals by Doug Wilk and Jim Monks were all the Dutchmen needed as the defense, led by Captain Grant Foreman, turned in yet another solid performance. Sophomore striker David Tewksbury rounded out the first half scoring with his first tally of the '85 season. Cortland managed to get on the boal\d early in the second half, but the Dutchmen once again put out the flame as Steve Hartman converted on the first of his two goals. Wilk then added one more on a feed from Hartman. In addition, goalie Al Trageser registered his first complete game victory in the nets. This victory was not only a big win for the Dutchmen, but a · per- sonal victory for Coach Magee. It was Magee's lOOth career victory at the helm of a very successful Union College soccer program. In Saturd~y's home opener, the Dutchmen trounced Kings Point in a convincing 7-o vic- tory. It took the hooters nearly 20 minutes to get on the board, as Dave Tewksbury netted his second goal of the season. Steve Hartman then converted to give Union a 2-0 lead at halftime, which would never be challenged by Kings Point. Tbe game's second half was highlighted by a birage of goal scoring, all unanswered by the Merchant Marines of Kings Point. Union tallied five more goals with Dave Tewksbury and Doug Wilk,picking up their third goals of the season, .. while Bob Crandall, Jay Davis, and Rich Eqgdahl each registered their first. The hooters defense once again proved its worth, by completely shuting down the Kings Point offense and allowing only three shots on goal. W. Soccer Kick Around .500 By LEROY AND SEBASTIAN Sports Staff On Sunday September 1st, the Women's Soccer Team was beginning a grueling ten days of preseason training to prepare them for the upcoming 1985 season. Head coach Marty Morrison looks forward to an outstanding year. Losing only two team members from last year and gaining a group of talented new players, she finally has the flexibility of a strong bench to back up her starters. In addition, the team has added a new assista11t coach, Chris Youmans, who has used her solid knowledge of the game to · give the team a positive outlook for a winning season. The season started with two victories for the Dutchwomen. In the opening game against Siena, sophomores scored to lead the Dutchwomen to a 34 victory over Siena. Striker Beth Wright scored midway throqgh the first half to give Union the edge. Deb Hodin knocked in tne second goal while· fullback . Colleen Dundon backed Up the offensive. effort to boot in the third and final goal for Union. It looked like a shutout for Goalie Sarah Shaw but with no time on the clock a penalty was called against the Dutchwomen and Siena used the free shot to their advantage. The team then traveled to Oneonta where they once again took a win with the score of 3-1. Jane Barkin, a rookie to the team, rifled in the first goal as the game stood tied at the half. Union picked up the pace in the second half as the Lady Booters zapped Oneonta twice more with goals by Leona Wetherell and Astrid Morsch. The opponents remained scoreless for the rest of the game thanks to Union's agressive play. Last Friday afternoon, the team came up one short against a tough Manhattanville squad. Tire event looked grim for Union with a halftime score of three- Zero. But in the- second half Union came ''Blive. Clarissa McFarlan's goal· jll$t minutes into the hcl'lf ignited ~e spark that fired up the Union comeback rally. Deb Hodin came through With the second Union goal to bring the Dut- chwomen within one. But the play went back and forth as Manhattanville scored another. Union never let up and Becky Clemente headed in a cross by freshman winger Lynne· Erd- man. Once again the gap was down to one. Another goal against Union still didn't take any spark out of their en- thusiasm. With three minutes and 22 second left in the game Erin Sheehan dribbled through the defense to score what would be the final goal for Union. Though a 5-4 defeat was the outcome, the Lady Booters outscored Manhattanville 4-2 for the second half and clearly outplayed them. With barely time to rest from Friday's game, the Dut- chwomen faced Mount Holyoke Saturday afternoon. The team played well together, hustled and showed intensity but still could not match strides with the ranked team from Massachussetts. Jane Barkin scored Union's only goal in. the second. half which was ·not enough to keep up with four goals by Holyoke. The soccer record now stands at 2-2. Today they travel to Binghamton and return . home Saturday for a rematch with Siena at 11 AM on Garis Field. ' I' - c - .j: u

