' CXV No. 12 Bulk Rate U.S. Postage l.'md Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 February 6, 1986 Escort Service Expanding By COLLEEN ADINOLFI From January 14-29, the number of calls received by the Security-Safety Department requesting escorts increased 600 p~rcent, according lo Cliff Wood, director of the Security- Safety Department. ''This averages out to be· 26_ transports per night,\ he said, To meet ihe increased demand. for escorts, the department will extend the service they already proVide. He stressed that contrary to some misconceptions, \cost is never an issue with safety on campus.'' When there is a need for increased service, the students will get it. .. :- Sigrid Junckner, member of theWomen's Network, J~uary 23, said that she thinks the issue iR!~efllt!IISWU~t~iiSs~ '.'BUt,'' she said, \we're getting the runaround, due to the amount of 'red tape'involved.\ Cavoli's shuttle ex.periment destroyed ... Scaife Witnesses Tragedy ByDAVEMARIN . Last week's Space Shuttle Challenger mission was to in- clude an experiment designed by Union College student, Rich Cavoli, and his proj~ct advisor, Professor ~ Charles Scaife (Chemistry). . With _ the loss of the ex- periment as . a. result of the eXplosion of the Snuttle at 11:39 a.m. last Tuesday, there is question as to what the future of the project will be. According to Professor Scaife this depends on NASA,. not on himself and Cavoli. The pace of the shuttle launches will clearly be set back as a result of the accident and how the schedule will proceed from now is not yet known. President Reagan announced two days ago the organizatio~ of an independent commission to investigate the cause of the explosion. The Presidential Commission on the Space Shuttle Challenger Accident, as it. is being called, will __ report within 120 days. Until that time there will be no flights .. According to Scaife; flights through June were already manifeSted. How NASA will reschedule is unclear, as whether or not Cavoli;s ex- periment will fly again. Professor Scaife was told by one NASA member that \as soon as something definitive comes out of the investigation I will hear from them.\ He was also told that they wanted to continue to fly student e~­ periments, though \they;' referred to only one group in NASA and what the overall policy will be is yet unknown. Still, Scaife says there is a reasonable chance that the experiment will fly again, though it is not likely to happen soon .. In the meantime, Scaife and Gavoli will probably con- tinue to work on the ex- periment, first trying to find new funding. He .says there are also some possible minor changes they will make to the project design. The two will not, however, begin actual con- ~ruction of a new experiment until they are sure it will be used in another shuttle mission. Cavoli had been at the launch site earlier in the week, but continUed delays in thee launching forced him to miss the actual launch and return to Union. Scaife, however, was Continued on page 6 Covenant House Promoted By J.OANNE McANDREWS According to New York City police, there are ov~r 20;000 homeless children in New York City. On Monday night, February 3rd, Jonathan Hill, a representative from Covenant House in N~w York City spoke to interested students. He is the coordinator of the High Schoole College Education program ~d regularly speaks to groups about Covenant House's suc- cesses and faUures. Covenant House was fom1ded in New York Pity by Father Bruce Ritter in 1968~ in the late 1960's, Father Ritter., who holds a PhD in medieval theology, was the campus chaplain at Manhattan College in the Bronx, NY: Challenged by hts students.to \Practice what he preached\ he resigned from the College and asked his superiors to reassign him. He wanted to work on the streets with the poor. He moved to the lower East Side in Manhattan. One winter 6 youths showed up at his ,apartment and asked if they could stay the n$ght. The next night, they brought four of their 'friends. He tried to find an agency to help these youths, but he could not find one. Covenant House began. With some \socially aware college students\ Father Bruce took · over some apartments. More and more young people began coming for food and shelter. In 1977 ,. Covenant House moved to its present 24 hour a day facility in Times Square, New York. Today there are facilities in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; _ Houston, · Texas; Toronto, Canada and Antiguq, Guatamala. Facilities are about to open in Panama and New Orleans, Louisiana. To start a new facility, the Covenant House administration must be . invited by the Catholic diocese of the city or urban area. Continued on page 2 She said the Women's Network wants the student driver to be permitted to transport students living off-campus. At this time, the student driver is permitted. to transport students on campus only. The Women's Network also would like to- have more student security officers walking around campus, Jtu1ckller said. Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, said, ''we continue to be concerned about the security and safety of women on campus.\ Mammola has negotiated with the Vice- President of Finance, John Houser in concurrence with the Women's Network;s - sug- gestions to allow the student driver to transport off-campus stu~ents-· and to increase the ~la biiity. ot ·4lhe\ walking. student · sec4rity patrol$. Mamm,ola said he hopes to implement these irl}provements as early as this weekend. Although the student security patrol has been doing a fine job so far, it is sometimes difficult to accomodate the students' academic schedules. There are 43 students working for 69 hours per week now and the depart- ment is looking to increase the number of students workers to \alleviate the heavy demand\ on security right now. Student Security co-manager Russ Larson said of tne in- creased student patrolS, \of course I think it is a good idea.\ He adde.d that it is mainly a problem of getting enough people to work the extra shifts. Advertisements asking for student security workers have appeared in Concordiensis recently. In addition, .security has listed several tips: 1) Do not walk alone at ight, when possible 2} Tell someone where you are going and when you. expect to be there 3) Use public· walkways. Avoid areas that are not well .. lit 4) call security for escort at night 5) Keep the front doors of residence halls locked at all times 6) report ·strangers and intruders to security at once 7) security emergency number is x6911. ·suspect Convicted On Reduced Charges Last week security reported the arrest of an individual suspected fu the recent attacks against · women on campus. Though the individual fit the description of the attacker, positive identification could not be made by any of the victims. He was charged and con- victed with the most they could-tresspassing-which has a maximum penalty of $100 fine or 30 days in jail. Winter in Schenectady has some redeeming value after all.

Page2 CONCORDlENSIS, February6; l986 Jonathan Hill expl,ains the role of Covenant House in providing shelter and care tor homeless children. Hill Speaks on Shelter Omtinued from page 1 Hill began his talk by asking the audience about their general impressions . of Covenant House. Most responded by saying that runaways, child drug addicts, and child prostitutes came to mind. Hill stated that Covenant House is ''a short tenn crisis center which services newborns to under 20 youths. It is a ministry to the homel,ess youth.\ Hill eKplained that there is a need for Covenant House. So- called \throwaways\ and ''tossouts'' youth bave no home or family background. These youth often have little or no past, come from transient families; or from homes that are dangerous for them to stay with i.e. child abusiv:e. Over 60 percent of the children admitted to Covenant House come from single parent homes. Many are of black and Hispanic origin, and come from all 50 states and Latin America. Hill stated that runaways .are attracted to New York City, particularly Times Square. Times Square is essentially ''open'' 24 hours a day, and the children see it as a place to make money by hustling., selling. drugs or by turning to prostitution. Hill shocked the audience by stating that por-· nography is a 50 million dollar per week mdustry in New York City alone. Hill continued by saying that he personally has learned two things since coming. to Covenant House. One is that ''prostitution is not a victimless crime\. The second thing is that he ''found out what being poor is ... Poor is not having items such as clothes and cars~it is not having choices.\ An Emergency RDom \provide an atmosphere where the children can gain a little self-respect.\ The decay of the nuclear family in America can be said to be a cause of these problems---a majority of the youth in Covenant House are from single parent homes. The budget for all Covenant House programs is 37 million dollars. . Nine percent of this comes from city, state, and federal sources. Twenty per- cent comes from corporate gifts, and the rest comes from private donations. In New York City, COvenant House has a staff of 300 people. There are al$0 many volun- teers. Some celebrity volun- teers include Phoebe Cates, an actress and model·, and Kevin Kllne, an actor. Every · Christmas Yoko Ono, widow of John Lennon, buys winter coats for all of the children in Govenant House. What's Up Around Campus Tedisco Appearance Scheduled example was given to illustrate the plight of these ·youth. Imagine a 15-year-old boy named Tony whose single p~rent left bini. Upon entering an Emergency Room he wDuld be asked for his name, age, guardian, and insurance company. Tony would not be able to give answers to the last two questions. In New York State, withou_t .a guardian and insurance it is illegal to treat a person unless it is a life- threatening_ situation. A number of tne staff at Covenant House live in \community'' . a spiritual group. They are a diverse group · of adults from all :walks of life that stay at Covenant House for Assemblyman James N. Tedisco ( R-Schenectady) will speak at the Chi Psi Fraternity on Thursday, Feb. 6, at 7:30 p.m. His lecture will be spon- sored by the Union College Young Republicans. Tedisco is the ranking Republican member of the Assembly Committee on Children and Families. He also serves on the Assembly Aging, Education, and Mental Health Committees as well as the Assembly Sub-committee on Child Abuse. In 1983, as a result of hi~ work on behalf of missing children, Tedisco was appointed chairman of the Assembly Republican Task Force on Missing Children. Tedisco is also co-chairman of the Assembly Republican Task Force on Enterprise Zones. A lifelong resident of Schenectady and a 1972 graduate of Union, Tedisco is an advisory member of the Union Young Republicans and an alumni brother' of Chi Psi. He will speak on New York State politics and on how his ex- periences at Union helped him become a state legislator. Society of Physics Students The Society of Physics Students will be holding a meeting on Tuesday, February 11. The major focus of the meeting will be a talk by Max Dresden, Ph.D., on \How Many Dimensions Does Space-Time Possess?\ Professor Dresden comes to us from the Institute of Theoretical Physics, SUNY at Stony Brook. The meeting will be held at 4: 30 in the Physics. Seminar Room on the third floor of the Science and Engineering Building. Refreshments will be served. All are welcome to attend. SPS members will be challenging the Physics Dept. today in volleyball. We will be leaving the physics office at 2:30 and will play from 3:00 - 4:00 at the YMCA. We hope to see you there! . Composition A ward Announced The Department of English has announced a new and substantial award in com- position. The \Daniel Shocket ( '72) Prize in Creative Writing,\ established J?y Carol and Sheldon Shocket in memory of their son, iS intended to en- courage developing writers who seek publication. The prize of $1,000 will be awarded annually on Prize Day in May. Daniel Shocket was an English . major in the Class of 1972. Following graduation, he became a freelance writer of humor, film reviews, and commentary for sports and leisure-time publications. After his death in 1985, following a two-year illness, Mr. and My_s. Shocket created a fund · to provide the annual cash award. All undergraduate students are eligible to compete for the Shocket Prize by submitting entries to the. Department of English, which will judge the competition. Details for the Shocket Prize and for other annual writing prizes will be announced shortly .. .. ·, . .. . \. I Jane Cooper to Speak Poet Jane Cooper will give a talk and read from her work at Union College on Monday, February 10. Jane Cooper is the author of several books of poetry, in- cluding The Weather of Six Mornings, which received the 1968 Lamont Award of the Academy of American Poets, Maps and Windows, and Threads: Rosa Luxemburg from Prison. Her 1984 volume of new and selected poems, Scaffolding, was selected by Galway Kinnell as the first recipient of the . Maurice English Poetry Award. Jane Cooper is a co-editor. of Extended Outlooks: The Iowa Review Collection of Con- temporary Women Writers. She is Poet-in-Residence at Sarah Lawrence College. Jane Cooper will speak on \Writing about Women\ at 3:30 p.m. and will read from her work at 8:00 p.m. Both presentations will be in the 2nd floor lounge of the Humanities Building, and are free and open to the public. Alternatives to Abortion Alternatives to Abortion, a presentation led by Maureen DeBlasio (Union '85) will be held tonight, February 6, at 7:30 p.m. in SS-115. Maureen is a member of Birthright of Schenectady, a volunteer organization in service· to pregnant women and women with small children who need assistance for financial reasons or who need counseling. This presentation is open to the campus community and is sponsored by the Union College Pro-Life Forum. Founder's Day Returns Founders Day convocation. to mark the 191st anniversary of the' granting of the College charter will be held· Wedneaday, February 12, at 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. The event will begin with an academic procession, Gr~etings will be offered by Christine Siler, president of the Student Forum; Ted Bick, chairman of the Faculty Executive Com- mittee; and President Morris. President for Academic Affairs Tom Tom D'Andrea will present four faculty members to ret:!elve distinguished profeSS()rships. Benjamin DeMott, Mellon Professor of English at Amherst College, will deliver the main address, \The Academic Con- sequences.\ After the convocation ·!here will· be a lunch for --all factdty · members in Hale House Dining Room. The Founders Day ceremony began in 1946 on the an- niversary of the date of the signing ()£ the College charter, the first to be granted by the Board of Regents of New York. The ceremony was held an- nually for more than 20 years, with programs ranging from tributes to outstanding alumni and faculty members to discussions by invited guests. Recently, a ntimber of faculty members expressed interest in reviving the Founders Day tradition. The Minerva Conunittee is coordinating the event, which is open to :;~11 members of the · campus community. Continu~d on page 3 SAVE THE SKELLAR · one year and : take vows· of poverty, chastity, and love. They spend tl:].ree hours a day in .prayer, work with the children, and receive a stipend of $l2 a week. Hill likened these people to an \Inner city Peace Corps\. \Hill shocked the audience by stating that por· nography is a $50 million per week industry in New York City alone.\ In an effort to help these Hill takes a group of boys children, Co:venant House has from Covenant House out every an open intake policy-any Friday night. He commented child will be let in, no matter that they \think that others are · how many times they . have good people, . but don't like stayed at, Covenant }!Gtise · · themselves ; •. They lm.ow that I before. There are r:ules that the speak to groups and think that youths who . stay at Covenant once people know about the House must follow, and these injustices, it will stop. However, include No drugs, alcohol, it is a problem that is getting weapons, or physical contact. worse.\ He finds his job· a,t When a youth is admitted they Covenant House to be very are fed first, then interviewed rewarding: \It's t~ugh ... you and assigned a place to live. go to sleep l!!ld wake up thinking about work ..• It's a lot of hours Covenant House has a med- ... It makes you appreciate so ical clinic on the premises many things.\ as well as a legal' staff. They In conclusion, Hill told a few also hav~ facilities for teenage success stories of Covenant mothers and their children and House youth who had gone on to for pregnant girls. Presently, business internships and Ivy Covenant House has 135 beds, League colleges: But Hill yet houses 250 youth~ a night- stressed that the greatest · mats are put down in the Chapel success would be to have a child so that each youth has a place to at Covenant House realize, sleep. During the summer the \Wow population of Covenant House On January 23rd, the goes down because the youths Newman Club held a Cabaret to tend to sleep outside. benefit Covenant House. At the Hill commented about bow conclusion of the lecture, naive the children are. Many Newman Club Co-President have low self-esteem. 60 percent Susan Gorga '86 presented suffer from severe depression, Jonathan Hill with a check for 60 percent have thought about Covenant HoUse. The Newman commiting suicide, and 40 Club also has tentative plans to percent have attempted suicide. visit Covenant House for a day Covenant House tries to during spring term. This Week's Events 4-6-\0n Your Toes\ (tickets on sale at the ticket booth in Old Chapel) 7-HOCKEY: Union vs. Colby-Achilles Rink, 7:30p.m~ . Al'ts Improvisation Series-AB108, 7 :ao p.m. . Video Party-open to campus-OCDR, 10 p.rn.-2 a.m. 7 -9-Film: Year Of 'fhe Dr(igon---88016, 7:30 10 p.m. 8-Downtown Sch'dy 5K Race (sponsoredby Anaconda-Kaye) Hockey: Union vs. Bowdoin-Achilles Rink, 4 p.m. Dinner Show with Comedy-()CDR, 7 p.m.--1 a.m. 9-0pen Jam Session with Late Nite Bites-HHLL, 9:30 p.m.-12 :30 a.m. 10-IEF Discussion Series-Hum. Lounge, 12:30 p.m. . . Film: 1976 Fassbinder, Gennan with English subtitles, \Chinese Roulette\ 88016-3:30 p.m. . 11-Film: Slapshot-88016, 7, 9,11 p.m .. Basketball: Union Ys. Hartwick~Fieldhouse; 8 p.m. Biology Seminar Series.: Jason C. Birnholz, M.D. (graduate of Union) \\ Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, R U'Sh· Presbyterian-st. Luke's' Medical Center, (Host: H. Butzel)-SS117, 4:30p.m. 12.:_Bloodmobile-Fox Lounge, 11 a.m.--5 p.m. Minerva Hour-Founders Day Celebration.._ Memorial Chapel, 11:30 a.m. Great Decisions: Star Wars--HHLL, 7:30p.m. A K ~ 1! D C< A B a 0 R D AJ a R PI Ui PJ S3 d< re a~ ch pe h(] pa diJ ch de co Pc AI vo fOJ . e:x de \V thl SU] po: alf tbE is. 24- wil ' tel' .co COl COl R ta al 'J Un Dr stt ha1 IDE fri1 . I · mi am mt· ' se:li p01 to bu1 tha ele s \t< see rna iiiiiiii - Coli A nev bro con nat Sta me1 coll alc1 con ~ .... II • ~ •

CONCORDIENSJS, February6, 1986 Page3 Williams Returns By JOANNE McANDREWS U!lion welcomes back V:isi~ing Assistant Professor of Biology Karen Williams. Professor Williams taught at Union from 1972~1981 in the Biolo,gy Department, · assisting in courses such as Comparative Anatomy ahd Freshman Biology. From 1981-1984 she was a Postdoctoral Trainee at the Center for Laboratories and Research at the New York State Department of Health in Albany. school has and is changing. since I last taught here .. .I enjoy the students now just as much as I did then.\ She feels that the advantage of Union's trimester system is that both students and professors are able to con- centrate their energies on fewer courses, However, she feels the disadvantage is that, ''winter and spring terms are right on top of each other .... there is only one week separating the two terms/' 1... <I> .0 :I 1... t!> <I> > ro 0 >- .0 0 - 0 !: 0. Professor Williams received a B.A. in Chemistry from Russell Sage College; an M.S. in Pharmacology from the Univers~ty of Michigan, and a Ph.D. in Life Sciences and · Systems from Union. For her doctoral diss~rtation, she researched the factors associated · with · emotional change during the postpartum period in women, including hormonal changes. The post~ partum period is the period directly. following the birth of a child. Many women experience depression at this time. Professor Williams has many ties with Union. Her husband, George Williams, is a Professor of Electrical Engineering and . Computer Science here, and is a Union grad~te. T~ey have a 16-year- old son, Chrtstopher. Professors from Siena College and,Colgate University discuss the integration of college women into the curricl!llum. In. 1974, Williams co-founded the Union College Child Care Center. The Cllild Care Center is primarily for children of faculty, staff, students, and alumni. The Center is planning its first reunjon to coincide with ReUnion weekend in June .. Said Williams, ''The Child Care Center is a quiet but important p~rt of the Union College campus and needs more ex- Panel on Women Convenes Her present research; in conjunction with Dr. Norman Posner, an obstretrician at Albany M.edical Center, in- volves developing a technique for predicting which women will ·experience postpartum depression. Stated Williams, \We want to do something for them--provide them with support, and lessen the extent of postpartum depression. We are also interested in the effect on the families of \these women.\ This term Professl)r Williams is a Lab Instructor for Biology 24-Genetics and Evolution. She will teach Genetics labs spr~g ' ·term and will coo.,dinate The ,co1lege E~per.hmce biology course this summer. She commented,. \Physically the . posure.\ Community Involvement Professor Williams' com- munity involvement includes being a parenting class' in- structor at the Family Centered Maternity Association and the Community Health Plan and being a CPR instructor. She also plays the recorder and is a member of the Adirondack Baroque Consort. Concluded Williams, \Union is a good school-I'd recommend it to anyone. Union is strong in that students get individual attentioh. Also, . there -''is' a balance between humanities and science.\ . By JAN BARAN On Wednesday, January 29, a panel was held on the in- tegration of women in~o liberal arts curriculum. Sponsored by the Women's Commission, this panel brought three professors with great experience in in- tegrating women into their curriculums. Members of this panei included Elaine Osnibene, an associate professor at Siena, Marilyn Thie, an associate professor of religion-phUosophy at Colgate, and Arin Lane, professor of history and director of women's studies at Colgate. Siena College has j~st recently emphasized m- tergrating women into the c1ll'liculum. As of 1983, there were only two courses in- tegrating women, ''Women in Literature\ and \Women in · . Politics,\ at Siena College. At ·.tttmttirtre \'Siena was co;ed 'Only in saperficial ways,\ with much discrimination in terms .of Harassment due to discrepancy in views? . •. Perceptions Questioned (CPS)-He thinks she's .flir- tatious and seductive, but it is all in his mind. That's What a Kansas State University psychologist thinks. Dr. Franlt Saal studied college students to see if sexual harassment is prompted by men :misinterpreting women's friendly gestures as flirting. His study found men \tend to misperceiv~ females' behavior, a!1d are more likely to view interactions in sexual terms.\ \A lot of people wonder if sexual harassment isn't just a power play, a way of using sex to keep women in their place, but I maintained-and found- that there is a sexually-toned element to it,\ Saal explains. Saal made videotapes of two ''totally business-oriented'' scenes: one of an assistant store manager briefing a new female cashier, and one of a female student asking her male professor for a deadline ex- tension. After viewing the tapes, the majority of 100 males said the cashier and the student were both trying to be \flirtatious seductive, promiscuous, at= tractive and s~xy.\ Male viewers also interpreted the beahvior ·of the professor and the store manager as \sexually-oriented.\ · Female viewers thOugh both situations were \completely asexual,\ and that the cashier and student were \outgoing and friendly.\ \Males see their social en- vironment in sexual terms,\ Saal concludes. \Because of that, they often misperceive women's actions, which might prompt them to ask a woman on a date, make an off-color joke, or commit other of the mild forms of sexual harassment.\ Saal will study men's at- titades in the workplace next. He'll show the same tapes to male and female employees to see if male misperceptions contribute to harassment on the job as well as in schooi. \I want to know if the same discrepancy exists (between men's and women's views of the sex:ual connotations of a sitaation) with people who've been in the workplace for a while,\ he says. If it does, Saal says he faces an even bigger question: \How is it that boys and men are S()cialized to become that way?\ Saal says finding the answer to that question could require ''some extensive research.'' Campus News Briefs Continued from page 2 New Committee Formed Trip\ and Superdance to benefit response to student de.sire Muscular Dystrophy are (expressed eXplicitly through currently in the planning numerous letters to the editor), stages. we are hopeful that students In addition to Fassberg, the will take advantage of their committee is comprised of: opportunities to participate, Adam Helfand, '87, John Zuk, Along with the beginning of a rather than follow the well '~7, Melissa Malkin, '88, new term, this past January beaten 'apathetic trail.' Kimberly Silvers, '88, and brought to Union a new studeQt 'Although recently formed, the · Kevin Irland, '89. The com- committee. The Social Alte~;- committee has already initiated rnittee welcomes any and all natives Committee, _chaired by some new activities. The re- students to offer their advice or ·Stacy Fassberg, '86, was for- opening of ''Late Nite Bites\ ideas pertaining to futUre ac- med to plan and impleme~t and the beginning of \Game ti~ities. Meetings are held college activities of a non~ Nights\ in the Skeller are two every Monday {:lt 5:30PM in the alcoholic .nature. Since this ideas already in the works. 3rd Floor Lounge, Old Chapel. . COIIllllittee. was fo.rmed. a~. ~. . A.ddit~o~a.lly, a ~'Myste~y Bus Come up and GET INVQINEP! • ~ \' .. , , • .1 .e ll ~ , ., • ,\\', t 11 ., , , • ~ -, :'f • 1 • .,. , 1 ~ ~ • • • • , • :. • Jo. ·• ., . •·• • . ~. .,. \' •. •• • \' .. ~ • • \ t. t. • , . • ' faculty salaries and students' classroom expectations, ac- cording to Professor Osnibene. The attitude towards women at Siena has not changed. An article which appeared in the student paper was a catalyst for an ever-growing movement to integrate women into the curriculum at Siena. This movement was started by a number of faculty who were upset by the newspaper article. A letter written by concerned faculty members was then published in the school newspaper which delineated the group's goals: integrating women into the curriculum, establishment of a women's resource center, a women's studies course, a college- supported day care center, and a new affirmative action ap- pointment. This program at Siena has · been in operation for one and a half years (from Fall1984 to the present). Since tliat tiine, an advisory committee of fifty faculty members was established, a freshman orientation program was created, a new course proposal was passed, several film and speaker series have begun, and a number of box lunch discussions with student and faculty members . participating have been developed. Professor Osnibene described the success of this program in few words, \it is an explosion.'} The success of this program has been phenomenal. Since Fall 1984, Siena College has increased its courses on in- . tegrating women into the curriculum from two courses to twenty courses currently. A data base on women's research was established, and four bag lunch discussions were held with over seventy students and faculty members in attendance at each lunch .. Moreover, the first ·forum to b~ organized and run by students was held at Siena on diversity. Problems still remain, however, in Siena's attempt to integrate women into the curriculum. As Professor Osnibene describes it, \there are too few people doing too much work.\ In addition, this program has generated so many committees that it is hard to concentrate faculty support for every initiative. Professor Osnibene remains optimistic about the success of the program saying, \look how much we have accomplished.'' The second speaker in the panel discussion, Professor Thie from Colgate spoke more generally on making co- education at her small liberal arts college a reality. As she stated, there has been \a fundamental revolution of women in knowledge,\ but that there is much more evidence of this \transformation\ at the faculty and student levels than at broader college and curriculum levels. Professor Thie noted that Colgate is taking a two-fold approach towards integration of research on women into the curriculum. First, Colgate needs to examine its roster of courses on women and work toward building a women's studies program. Colgate also needs to look at the success of its mainstreaming program to determine if Colgate is truly coedtlcational. The central goals in this ef- fort, according to Professor Thie, is to make co-education a reality, to attend to a new area of scholarship, and to present a truer picture of the world to its students. The primary factor in having a curriculum that is successful in integrating women are administrative support, faculty interest and commitment, and student enthusiasm. The Colgate professor also encouraged the promotion of interdisciplinary courses and the need to bring in outside speakers. Professor Lane also spoke about the programs at Colgate f()r integrating women into the curriculum. Colgate was the recipient of a Ford Foundation grant with the sole purpose of furthering the integration of women into the curriculum. This grant was received in December 1984 and will con- tinue until June 1986. This professor also noted that there were still problems that needed to be solived. She was con- cerned that women's studies programs might replace the larger issue of integration. Also, she Wished that more men would be interested in taking women's studies courses. Professor Lane believes that the funding from the grant has helped Colgate to add more courses on women into the c~J~Ticulum. i!! 111111111111111111 I IIIII 1111111111111111 1111111111 IIIII III Ill II 1111111 II 11111111111111111111 lllllllllllllllllntllllllllllll II I ill lilllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ s 5 ~ T~!e~~~~~g~:urt ~ 1 Thursday 2/6 ; I OPP~!~~~~!.~i~~~~~1gF~NE. I SfllllllljiQIIIIItllllllllllllflllllflijiiJIUiflllllllllliiiiii.IIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIII/IIIIIIIfll~l811qiiNII!lll)illllllllllflllllllllllllllllllilllll111~

. . . . Page 4 CONCOirDIENSJS, February 6, 19fl6 • • • g..,..,. fa .. i. ·•l.-.:, .. PIZZA · ~ UYIIU .. -:. ~· ..... - \. $PACI£llt [ PIZ'ZERIA I PHONES: '.372-7270 370-373!5 HOME STYLE PIZZA FEATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET & VAN ANTWERF\ RD. SC~ENECTAOY, N.Y. Asse:~·bly,ma·n Ja~mes Tedisco R- Schenectady presents r YOUTH: PO·L.ITI·CS, CAREER OPPORT·UNITI:ES, AN'D· FUTU:RE OF lHE G.O.P. IN N. Y .5. . .. 7:30p.m. at CHI PSI LODGE, Thursday, February 6 Free adrnission and refreshm:ents. ··························································································: ----------- . . . . ' . ' :'(!: \ -- WINT.E'RF:EST IS C·OMIN:G! .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • Ba1a- Des1gns · : , WINTER SPECIALS! . F:riday, · : t ~·_-- .......... -------·...------------------.-~ : I ~ ·1 PERMS 1: HAIRCUT! · j Feb. 1· 4·fh·- ! I lndudes Cut I & BLOW DRY 1 ! . • ~ II $3QOO I $1 ooo I ~·· . I . I · : I Reg.'$42 I Reg.$14 I i : I .. ! j i : L------· Valid thru Feb. 1.5-------- : : . • • Concert Board and Social Committee present Valentine's Day with The ROMANTICS 9 p.m.~ The Field House Admission is Free BE THERE! l '\:-u~u· 372-0007 511 s~:·.~~sr. -~ .. •••••••••••~••••••••••s•••••••••••••••••••·••••••••••••••••,•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~lllllllllllllil PIZZA 374-4332 FAST I HOT I FREE DELIVERY Now Open Late for Your Convenien;ce. Wednesday thru Saturday til 1 :OOa_~m .. Serving the BEST PIZZA at the BEST PRICE! ·Free 32 oz. Soda. with any order · over $5.00 on · Sunday nights II IIIII lUI HI

• Presenting •••.. An Evening Exclusively Created . for those UNDER 21 U Mondays February 3rd, 1Oth, 17th HOT & COLD BUFFET DANCING ALL. NIGHT Wide Variety of Non-Alcoholic Drinks JUST $5 9 PM 'til ... ? College ID Required Proper Attin;; Please CONCORDIENSIS, February 6, 1986 PageS ~IIIII illlilll/1111111.1111111111111111111 I lllllllllliliii.IIIIIIIUIJIUI llllllilllllllllllllllllllllll II II II I I I 111111111 Ill IIIII 111111111111111111 1111111111111~ e s ~ = =- :;:; i ''Panhellenic ! = = 5 ~ = = = = = ~ = = I Cabaret 1· ~ ~ = = = = I Contest'' I = = = = e = I February 27th ~ = - ~ from9p.m.-11p.m. ~ ~ 5 § Auditions will be held on: ~ 5 § ! Feb. 12th from 4 p .. m.-7:30 p.m. 1 ~ = I Guest Spots 1 i for PrQfessors ! ~ ~ 1 Prizes 1 1 Get Your ! .i Registration forms i ~ in now! § ~111111111111111111111111111111111 IIIIIMIIII/IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIl/1111111111111111 11111111111111111 1111111111111111111111111 II 111111111 1 ; 462-6611 State & lodge Albany For All Departments Mass Mailing Rules 1) All mass mailings will be done by the mailroom staff, regardless of the size of the mailing. Absolutely NO ONE will be allowed in the back of the mailroom for any reason. Hale House Dining Room I . I . . . . -~~ 50% Off Feb. 10-Feb. 14 .. 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. O·nly Buy any entree, sandwich, dessert or anything from our menu and pay only half of our low regu_lar prices. IIIIIIUJIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUqiiiiiiiUIIIIIUUJIIIIIItlfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIHIIItltiiiiiiUIIIIIUtfiiiiiiiQJIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIJidiiiiiiJIIIIIIIIUUHy6111UqUUIIIttllllllll!lfiii1Jtlllll Come To The- Spanish Conversation Table- Mondays at 12:30 Hale House IJIIIIIHJIIIIIIIIUJIIIIItllllllllllllillulldllllltl!lfiiiiiiii!HIIIIIIUQIHIIIIIIII!IIIIttn-llltttnllfallltllllllhiiiiiiiiiiHJIIII'-1111DIIIIIIUIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIII Institute of Administration and Management Administrative and Engineeri·ng Systems . Colloquium SPEAKER: Dr. William Holstein-School of Business, SUNY at Albany and 1.M.E· .. D.E., Switzerland TOP 1 c: ~~european Competitiveness:.Past, Present and Future\ DATE: Thursday, February 6, 1986 at 3:45 PLACE: Room 312, Bailey Hall, Union College 2) All mass mailings should be delivered to the mail room 3 days prior to the desired delivery date to insure delivery. Calling ahead of time does not insure a mailing date. The mail should actually be delivered to the mailroom 3 days before the mailing date. 3) To insure proper handling and delivery of the mail, each article should be addressed with the recipient's full name and box number, as well as the return address. Any mass mailing without box numbers will be returned to the sender. 4) All mass mailings must be in numerical box number order or else it will be returned to the sender. (Note: Student boxes run from 1 to 2325, and from 2501 to 2596 for fraternities and clubs. Numbers in the ZBT directory starting with 1 6' are phone numbers, not box numbers.} 5} All mass mailings must be on pieces of paper measuring at least 4 11 x 9\ (letter size), or else' it will be returned. All other size paper must be tri-folded. 6) Mail delivered to students whose boxes are temporarily c;losed will be returned to the sender. 7) As an added service, we will now be able to deliver mass mailings to a par- ticular class, i.e. the freshmen, soph- mores, juniors or seniors. Simply indicate on the mailing which class it should go to, if it applies. . The Student Mailroom is now open from 8:00a.m. to 8:00p.m. The window service is open from 10:30 a.m. to 4:00p.m. Please drop off mass mailings during _window hours only. If you have any questions regarding the Student Mailroom, please ca II ext. 6372. Coming soQn ••• Dance Ensemble's winter term performance. Watch for per- formance dates and further in- formation in future Concordiensis! .- --- .. \ . -·- . ., . ~ ....... ·~\' \\ \\ ,., ........ \ -~ -- .......... ~ .. . . .. . . .. ... ~ - ' ' >'

'f Page6 CONCORDIENSIS. February 6, 1986 FEATURES New Terms In Or lent China On Wednesday, January 29, Vice-President Thomas D'Andrea met with .a group of students interested in par- ticipating in · a new Terms Abroad Program in the People's Republic of China. In February, D'Andrea will go to Nanjing Teachers University to negotiate the details of the exchange agreement; an agreement that, while not yet · certain, seems highly likely to receive final approval. It is planned that a number of students from Union College (probably between 9 and 15) will spend the fall term studying in China, and one third that number of Chinese students or teachers will spend a full year studying at Union College. Nanjing, an ancient capital of China, is a city of three to four million people lying on the northern bank of the Yangtze River. The Teachers Universitv in Nanjing is one of the premier schools of a type that we would call liberal arts: there are fully staffed departments in the arts, humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences, but no technical courses of instruction. Most of the 4,000 students there upon graduation take up work as teachers, professors, tran- slators, broadcasters, or writers. The university's walled campus is an attractively laid out arboretum of specimens of China's shrubs and trees, with buildings in the decorative style of traditional Chinese ar- chitecture. While in China, Union students will take courses in Chinese language, culture, and society, all offered by in- structors from Nanjing. The Union College professor who accompanies the students will offer a course in the professor's own subject for Chinese with an interest in the subject and fluency in English. Union students will not li:ve in the homes of native Chinese, or in regular student dormitories, but in a foreign student dor- mitory on campus. Their term in China will include weekend trips to places of historical or cultural interest, such as the scholar-gardens of Suzhou, the Buddhist temples of Zhenjiang, and the craft-workshops of Yangzhou. Those interested in par- ticipating in this exchange should contact Professor William Thomas, Terms Abroad, Extension 6002, before February 14. Japan The first student exchange between Union College and Kansai University of Foreign Studies (Iansai Gaidai) in Osaka, Japan will be inaugurated in 1986-87. Under the program one student from Union will spend the academic year at Kansai Gaidai and one student from Kansai Gaidai will come to Union. The cost of the . program will be about the same as a year on campus at Union and any scholarships held by the selected student will apply. The exchange student from Union will live with a Japanese family and study both spoken Japanese and the reading and writing of Japanese as part of his or her academic load. In addition, he or she will have the opportunity to take a number of courses on Japan and East Asia taught in English. Some of these cou1ses include: \Modern Japanese Politics,\ \Japanese Economic Dev'elopment,'' \Japanese Style Management,\ \Modern Japanese History,\ \China and Japan: Aspects of East Asian Civilization,'' ''Modern Japanese Literature,\ and the difference is •.. •.. your kind of place . . . the difference is exciting gifts .•. the difference is distinctive cards and stationery •. • the difference is your kind of clothes at a discount .. . the difference ism inutes from campus the difference is corner of Liberty and South Terry Streets Schenectady. Visa- Mastercard 382-7600 Hours Mon.-Fri.J0:00-5:30 Sat. 10:00-5:00 \Survey of Japanese Art.\ Kansai Gaidai is located within an hour of both Osaka, Japan's second largest city and a great commercial center, and Kyoto, Japan's ancient center of Guddism. The year-long program will afford the Union student an unprecedented opportunity to get to know Japan and the Japanese people. He or she will be able to par- ticipate in tbe group activities of the Term Abroad students during the fall term, such as the excursions led by the resident Union faculty member, and will have time for lengthier trips in and outside of Japan during the break between semesters. Students who are interested in applying for the Student Exchange Program to Japan should contact either Professor , Thomas 211D, or Professor Thurston, Social Sciences 213B. Tragedy ••• Continued from page 1 present during the launch and commented that \one of the things you realize is that your experiment is pretty trivial compared to what happened that morning.\ Scaife described the at- mosphere before the launch as one of real expectancy and excitement. 150 teachers were among those in the crowd along with many cheel\leaders and a very exuberant crowd. For the first time since the shuttle's actually scheduled launch date, NASA reswned countdown after the automatic built-in ten minute break at the 9 minute mark. Once this countdown began, the crowd went wild, cheering loudly at the pass of every minute mark. Though it was very cold, Scaife says there was a beautiful clear blue sky. The crowd cheered loudly for the lift-off and even continued to cheer when the two rocket boosters separated, unaware that they had seperated almost a full minute earlier than planned. Shortly thereafter, an announcement indicated that something had gone awry. A second announcement con- firmed that the shuttle had exploded . The crowd quickly became completely quiet and an at- mosphere of grief and sorrow pervaded. ''What struck me most was how quickly joy can turn to sorrow,\ says Scaife, \not in an individual sense, but this was corporate. Everyone was there and soon the whole nation. The second thing is how ten{!ous life is. Maybe as a result some people are going to live life a little fuller.\ According to Scaife, \NASA did an excellent job at that point. They probably rehearse that. They rehearse everything else.\ NASA herded the spectators, who were at a viewing stand 3 miles from the launch pad, on to the buses and Philosophy Forum ... L;etMeDie The Philosopliy Forum is a student organizectgroup formed to encOUl'age .philosophical discussion, debate,. or lecture. If you wish to encourage discussion .of a ,particular issue or .topic please atteDd a Tuesday meeting at 4:30 p.m. in the Hum~ties lo11n~e. F~el free to contact Bill ,Kellily or·:Professor Felmon Davis ,fm more in- :formation. Fimllly, if you wish to write in the Ft~rum's column or provide a cartoon, contact any Forum ·member. , By BILLK&NlRYand DAVID MAitANVILLE Both the legal ~nd medical professions are eurrently being forced to re-examine their traditional attitudes toward life and death. As a r-esult of recent improvements in medical technology, doctors today possess the c:apability to prolong the hurna11life. The United States has w.it- nessed a number ()f efforts to legalize voluntary killing or euthanasia. Of !Particular in- terest, are cases i't'here patients consent to termination of their lives~ Literature abounds with debate for and against these views. The term \euthanasia' or 'mercy killing' involves a beneficient termination of a life which might otherwise con- tinue. The suggestion here is that the good ()£ ending an in· dividual's sufferillg outweights the moral wrong of terminating a life. In contrast., prolongation of life suggests an artificial lengthening of life. · ·A legal remedy for the dilemma of euth~nasia is the living will. Drawillg a will is a service which att()rneys provide for clients. A will is a formal legal declarati<ln of an in- dividual's wishes as to the disposition of his property- or estate after his death. Living wills are drawn ill anticipation of mentally in.capacitating injuries which might render an individual incapable of sound decision making. Living wills often assert an individual's wishes concerning life support syst~rns. An in- -dividual who draws such a will sometimes asks that he not be placed on life supJI()rt systems, but rather be allowed to die. Many persons have decided that the pain experiemed by con- brought them baclt to the center where they were gently urged to leave. They were shielded from the press and NASA delegated a person to each b11s to explain what they could. As for Cavoli, Scaife says that he feels \disappointment WE WANT TO HEAR tinuing their lives is simply too great. Individuals feel that the suffering outweighs aH potentially .go()d consequences. In deciding to write living wills individuals must: consider the scope of their decision and its effect on loved ones, as well as society as ,a whole. The medical profession is concerned :with this issue for many reasons. Doctors may be held criminally and civilly liable for either intentionally taking a life or for failing to act and thus allowing them to oc- . cur. That a doctor maY not actively kill is 1111 appfication of the universal principle that no man shall actively kill a feJlow human being. In contrast, the principle that a doctor may not fail to provide medic~il aid to a patient relying upon· him is a functiou· ·of the special relationship eXisting between doctor and patient. In situations resulting in death, a doctor's duty arises from the relationship between him and his patient. One must consider · whether the relationship involves either an act or an omission. If an act, the relationship between the doctor and the patient is irrelevant. If an omission, the relationship is all-controlling. The rapport between a doctor and his patient and its relation to the doctor is activity or passivity ·is im- portant in that it delegates the power of decision. Doctors should not be allowed the op- portunity to autonomously decide a patient's future. The ultimate decision con- cerning termination of human life by mercy-killing must be left up to the individual. In cases of mental incapacity, the decision ideally is deferred to living wills. The existence of living wills is a sensible alternative to the increasingly complex nature of medical care. Living Wills are a necessity, since doctors ,posess the abilityto sustain human life. If an individual does not feel secure in allowing a doctor to decide his future, then he must be allowed to make this decision for himself. A living will is an excellent means of doing this. For it clearly states the decision, and at the same time it preserves the individual's autonomy. obviously,\ but is even more confident than I that the ex- periment will fly again soon.\ Overall, he says Cavoli is taking it very well adding that \Rich is a very mature individual in a lot of facets of life.\ ~ I l I ~ s 1: c } c tl i: f p r s a h n p n n s: c p n T n tl f< e~ A r4 lc; d e: w

CONCORDIENSIS, Fehru(lry 6, 1986 . Page7 Minority Growth Editor's Note: A series of articles· and poems will be featured this .February bt honor of Black History Month. However, this series will focus upon issues raised and posed by Dlinority groups in general, at Union Cl)llege and elsewhere. Contributions and comments are welcome. By JAMES MARSHALL Persons like George areas such as the natural sciences, the computer sciences, and the engineering sciences-popular ijlajors at Union and other liberal arts institutions. Since most minority students are encouraged to aspire to careers in science (especially medicine), computer technoiogy, and engineering FEATURES Washington Carver, W.E.B. DuBois, · and Martin L. King used their freedoms in order to prompt the advancement of science, education and dvil rights for all people regardless of age; sex, background, color or any discriminatory · basis. · Nevertheless, many others are needed to continue these efforts, especially . in law-related careers. ' science there has been a sharp decline in minority law.. school c~ndidates. Most qualified minorities believe that a pocket full of dollar bills inunediately after college graduation or two pockets full of five-dollar bills (and a Mercedes) after medical school should satisfy their long and painful struggle for educational, social, and financial liberties. 1$/0LOGJCAL WAR.FAFZE - The Great Hockey Affair One would need volumes of school newspapers in order to list the accomplishments and contributions that Black Americans have given, in many cases have been forced to yield, to an emerged superpower .that is characterized as a land of freedom and unlimited op- portunities. The uninformed reader may wish to research some of these Black American accomplishments. This knowledge is important; however, the point I w.ish to make is that these efforts to promote minority development must continue, I suggest that more minority students con- sider careers in law! Many critics believe that the law professions are crowded and money-hungry mstitutions. Tho11gh the latter impression may be valid, I interpose that there are many career options for the law student. Richard Bartlett, lawyer, educator, and retiring Dean of Albany Law School, stated in a recent Minerva Lecture that the law field remains open as a diverse career option, especially for those students with technical backgrounds in What about political liber- ties? Well, it is common knowledge that the most powerful and influential positions are political systems that control the destiny of society to a large extent. What type of professional qualifies for these positions? Law professionals qualify of course. Do most capable minority students become law professionals? No. This might offer some sugg.estions in response to why minorities have few political liberties and little influence over the final outcome of America. America has been the home of the free and the adventurer for over two hundred years, and now that minorities are free they could choose options that will enable them to · obtain financial, political, and legal benefits. Certainly, the sciences allow one to develop his ability to memoriZe and to accept focused facts and theories. However, the knowledge of science and law enables one to use all faculties of his per- sonality including the analytic and the dramatic qualities. I believe that more minorites and others will begin to explore the diversifying, exciting and inspiring career opportunities in law. Editor's Note: This is the second part of an excerpt from Professor C. William Huntley's book entitled Thirty Years in the Life of a College. It is available in the bookstore. The whole unhappy affair came to an end in December of · 1977. In the middle of that month, the Committee on Standing. held the customary end-of-the-term meeting in which students whose academic records fall below an ac- ceptable level are asked to leave college. Among those who were dropped were four members of the varsity hockey team. These four were, however, allowed to take part in a tournament at Dartmouth scheduled for the ·same weekend, but were told that - they would not be able tcr play a few nights later in a regularly scheduled game, a decision which apparently infuriated the coach. This anger was rein- forced by the fact that the local press somehow learned the names of those who had been dropped. Harkness accused the College of making a \public announcement\ and of being \cruelly indiscreet\ in the handling of the matter. Parenthetically, one might comment that seldom if ever does a college release to the Navy Gold: Forged In a Tradition of Excellence Because the Officers wearing .it are the best in the world atwhatthey.do ... they have to be It takes· a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval Aviation. Strong, dedi- cated professionaJs who can control the world's most sophisti- cated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for aviators that are second-best. Beneath the surface pwlses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromi~ed standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The ·Navy's Nutlear Propulsion Officers wear them. To find out if you're qualified, see the Navy Representa- tive that will be in the Campus Center on February 12. 1986 or call collect {S 16) 462·6119. Minority Students Encouraged to Apply Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. press the names of students who have been separated for academic reasons. , Mr. Harkness then held a press conference on Friday, two days before Christmas, at which he read a letter of resignation. He complained of obstacles that had constantly been put in his way, of promises that had not been kept, of the harassment of his team by the Con~ordy, and the snubbing of prospective hockey players by the admission .office. Four days after his resignation, the members of the hockey team called a second press con- ference at which they read their own letters of resignation, stating that they \did not wish to participate in intercollegiate athletics at Union College at this time.\ This rather matter- of-fact statement belies the strong emotion that was ·in- volved. When interviewed on television, some of the players found it hard to control their tears. Their actions apparently came as a complete surprise to both the president and the athletic director. The president quickly released a statement, saying that Harkness ''. . . chose, without prior hint or notice to me . . . to break his contract . . . in the middle of a season.\ Thus Union was left without a coach or a team to complete the rest of the year's schedule. Some of the games were cancelled, others were played by junior varsity men and volunteers, with a member of the athletic staff acting as an interim coach. Time magazine, early in January, brought national attention to the College when it related some . of the events which had taken place. The story ends with the ap- pointment of a new coach who came with the understanding that hockey would be played in the same spirit and under the same conditions as all other varsity sports a~ the College. In the first year, the team won but five of twenty~ games in Division II play, but in the next year the record was twelve victories and fourteen losses, reflecting the basic com- mitment of the College to the spirit of amateurism in athletics. An editorial in the Hartford, Connecticut, Courant sum- marized the whole matter very well indeed: Sports In Perspective Yemanja, the Brazilian ocean goddess, occasionally stretches out her inviting arms to male swimmers far from shore. The men invariably respond, happy forever, and the couple sinks beneath the water, from which the males never return. And then there is Union College. The smallish liberal arts college in Schenectady, N.Y. found its Yemanja on the hockey rink. Armed with a $1.5 million bequest for a hockey facility, Union, not an athletic powerhouse by anyone's standards, hired a nationally famous coach and sunk intQ a sea of major sports revenue dollars. Coach Ned Harkness didn't fit in: at Union. He knew it. His faculty colleagues knew it. The president of the college suspended him once for violating the rules for recruiting. The academic qualifications of some of his players were suspect. In short, Union wasn't sure it wanted what was needed to support a team that went 46-7-2 over the past 2lh years. Last week, the hockey gods took what was due them. Mr. Harkness quit, the entire hockey team quit, and five of the players signed professional contracts with the Detroit Red Wings, where Mr. Harkness used to be head coach. For Union College, the oldest nondenominational college in the United States, it meant unpleasant publicity and the loss of significant revenue from ticket sales. More importantly, the incident pointed out that the college was being used as a training ground for aspiring professionials athletes far more mterested in sports than education. For most college athletes, sports prowess is a ticket to a better education than might otherwise be available. College sports is (sic) competitive, it is often financially helpful to the schools involved, and it is fun. But somewhere amidst the pompons and the marching bands and the flying. skates, scholarship and ethics and amateurism often suffer. It happens at the big schools. .And it happened at Union. (January I, 1978) T ~tiE .WfiRP VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3257

Pagr 8 CONCORIJIENSIS, February 6, 1986 THEARTS· Under S.pel-l #7 :By KIMBERLY HANCOCK . \A little black boy,\ related actor Karnell Oliphant \asked my magician father to iurn him by magic into a white boy.\ Oliphant was a member of the cast of Dhedalus Productions' Spell No. 7 which was presented at the Nott Memorial an January 29. A scene from the new play \Spell #7\ by Ntozake Shange performed aT the Nott Memorial on January 29. Spell No. 7, a sequel to For Colored Girls Only, depicts a group 'of black entertainers gathered in their favorite bar to share with each other' their failures and successes. The bar's patrons include actors, actresses, poets and songwriters who, regardless of their level of success, share a common heritage. {{ ~ taWret·· * {! * {{ * {! P.resents * {{ A Delta Chi Night! * {{ Performers include: * {{ Jeff Winters. Sandy Cook * {! cand Jim Havard * {! with a special MC * {! Tonight at 1 0:00 * {! Tickets at $1.50 at Old Chapel * r ~•WRUC ~~·. JJ SCHENECTADY 89.7 fm STEREO • \THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ Its the WRUC TOP 8.97! These were the most frequently played albwns this past week by the WRUC D.J. staff ... All albums are rated out of a possible 30 points in three categories: Ap- pearance, Originality and Lip Synch ... Just kidding. However, you can call 37()..6151 and request your favorite new music, thus influencing the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist Album Label LastWeek 1 Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars Big Time-5 2 Echo & the Bunnymen-\Dancing Horses\ Sire--4 3 Simple Minds-Once Upon A Time A&M-1 4 INXS-Listen Like Thieves Atlantic-R.E. 5 Alarm-strength IRS-2 6 Violent Femmes-\Children of the Revolution\ Slash~ 77 Clannad-\In A Lifetime\ RCA 8 Blow Monkeys-Forbidden Fruit RCA 8 8.97-Replacements \Kiss Me On the Bus\ WB Program Notes The first WRUC Dutchman Basketball game broadcast of the seasoin will be this Saturday at 2:15 from Norwich .... Be sure to tune to win WRUC t-shirts, albums and TEDDY BEAR-0- GRAMS for Valentines Day. -Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director You are cordially invited to ioin the 1985 Japan Group in a display of Japanese art, pictures & culture and a discussion of life as a foreigner living in Japan. The event will take place Wednesday evening, February 12, 1986 in the Arts Building.Performance Arts Studio and Atrium. :::.! illlilllllilllllilllllllllilllilllllllllllllllilllllilllilllilillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll.§ ''He that rises late must trot all day.\ -Benjamin Franklin . 'The play opens with the characters masked which is symbolic of the · supression of their unique . qualities and personalities. Slowly the masks are shed and the audience is priviledges to see the in- dividuality and talent this group of blacks is forced to hide. Through their dialogue and acts which are performed for each The Winter Improvisation Isaac Asimov, well on his way Series of concerts continues this to publishing his 400th book, has Friday in the Performing Arts instigated an art contest for Studio of the Arts Department. young sci fi enthusiasts with Once. (!.gain the series includes graphic talents. The winning music . from other ·parts of the . . workt will appear on a btochure globe. and a poster for Asimov' s next Those who attended last year's highly successful concert of Souh Indian music for flute and mrdangam will recall the spell that this highly inventive music cast on its attentive -audience. At the time the Concordiensis reviewer praised the music as \capturing in- stantaneously the raw (and often spiritual) energy of the moment.\ This yea:r South Indian music is again featured, but this time on the viDa-a kind of long· necked lute with a large resonating bowl, held across the lap by the seated player (similar to the sitar). The performer will be a world-famous player-who will be playing the mrdangam, a · two-headed barrel-shaped drum. The music of South India has a melodic and rhythmic complexity that is rarely heard in other musics. This concert promises to be a very special treat not only for those who are already interested in World musics, but also foJ:I those drummers on campus who want to hear some mind-blowing rhythmic dexterity. The concert begins at 7:30 and will be over by 9:00. Some chairs will be provided, but the custom in India is for the audience to sit close to the perfotmers on the floor, thus creating a close and intimate atmosphere for music· making. appearance at The Ren- sselaerville Institute, a five-day program open to the public, July 26-31, called \The Last Humans.\ Deadline for sub- missions to the Institute in Rensselaerville is February 14, 19B6. The competition is open to any artist under 25-student and non-student, and the sub- ject is not quite as grim as the title intimates. Asimov and the Institute are looking f.or art- work that portrays the concept of a group of people faced with losing their world and creating a new one. A limited edition poster signed by the artist and Asimov is also planned for the winning work whose creator will receive a $200 cash priZe. The best works, considering the con- ceptualization of the theme and the age of the artist, will be included in a gallery exhibition at the Institute from July 15 to July 31. All competition en- trants will be invited to Asimov's keynote address on July 26 as the Institute's guest. Area artist and world · traveler, Leo Loomie, will judge the competition. In choosing the winning piece he will consider both the treatment of the theme, \The Last Humans,\ and the possibilities for photo- reproduction since the piece will be used to publicize the program. Mention of the artist will be made in the brochure which will go out to over 10,000 people nationwide. ' ~ IXT,l~l ~. ~ i J'J' UU ~ For mote infonnation on ! •r;r~eo Dance 1 ~~~~ 0 ~~ !~~s~~ ~:: _ ,. l-U~ - sselaerville Institute, Ren- i i sselaerville, NY 12147 (518) 797- ~ 0 I d C h a pe I - Feb·. 7 ~ ~a~h;nJ:ie;r~:r~:Ort~~a!~~ other, the characters poignantly relate the personal hardships of being black in modern America. Each characteir passionately reveals that he· has a upique style which is being repressed by the modern standards. They reveal their l~mguage, culture, as well as their art was deeply affected by modern attitudes. Each character's messages were powerfully clear and demanded members of the audience to consider each dilemma carefully. Spell No~ 7 was written by Ntozake Shange as a sequel to her successful Broadway show, For Colored Girls Only. Shange was. born with all the ad- vantages of belonging to an upper-middle class . Black · family. She attended Barnard College and then werit on lo University .of Southern California. It was at USC that she began to explore the hard:.· ships of black life through poetry and theatre. Her first success, For Colored Girls· Only, was followed closely by Spell No.7. 1. The Cl)lor Purple, by Alice Walker. (Washington Square Press, $5.95. ) Winner of the 1983 American Book Award. 2. Valley of the Far Side, by Gary Larson. (Andrews, McMeel & Parker, $5.95.) And still more cartoons from the Far Side. 3. Love a11d War, by John Jakes. (Dell, $5~95.) The sequel to ''North and South.\ 4. Out of Africa and Shadows on the 'Grass, by Isak Dinesen. (Vintage, $4.95.) Remem- brances of life in Kenya. 5. So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish, by Doublas Adams. (Pocket, $3;95.) Fourth volume of the \Hitchhiker's Trilogy.\ 6. Garfield Rolls On, by Jim Davis. (Ballantine, $5.95.) Garfield's newest adve-ntures. 7. The Road Less Traveled, by M. Scott Peck. (Touchstone, $8.95.) Psychological and spiritual inspiration by· a psychiatrist. 8. The HlDltfor Red October, by Tot.n Clancy. (Berkley, $4.50.) The incredible chase of a nuclear submarine. 9. Out on a Limb, by Shirley MacLaine. (Bantum, $4.50.) Her ex:periences with rein- carnation. 10. The Talisman, by Stephen King and· Peter Straub. (Berkley, $4.95.) Spine-tingling terror by the two masters of mystery. New & Recommended Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman! by Richard P. Feyrtman. (Bantam, $4.50.) Outrageous exploits of the world's most outspoken Nobel prizewinning scientist. Outrageous Acts and Everyday Rebellions, by Gloria Steinem. (NAL-Signet $4.50.) A powerful vlice to the experiences of all women. Nutcratker, by Shana Alexander; (Dell, $3.95.) Money Madness Murder: A Family Album. Association of American Publishers--National Associa- tion of conege Stores liE § welcome. ! 1 Op m 2 a m · 5 · .... · .. · .. .. ......................................................... ·.······ loommoo~oo~mw~~~~~~oornm;oooo=~~w~=~m~~~~oouw~~~~mml J~~~~~~~~~~illili~ffiilill~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ililm~iliffiilf ·- ( J. t toE last Ch~ Wa! ret1 -the his per: and Ton Cer T wel Picl Ev~ aga \Fll sho, as t sho1 diff var wor: san1 shm \Mi san~ \WE Mm clea froiJ \Ev Bon Bett mov Me\ forn toge Live Don' Neil Ov stro: Lesl mad Thei Pi B1 190 Sci lllhtllll F . F F F F 111111

CONCORD/ENSIS, Fehruary6, 1986 Page9 THE ARTS Cabaret a-success Winter/est looks g,ood ... Alumnus Returns· Valentine's Day Concert By JOAN GOTLm Union Coltgge was privileged to experience a special Cabaret last Saturday evening in the Old Chapel at nine p.m. Cabaret was honored to present the return of a uniori alumnus from -the class of '85, Brian Laux, and his friend, K-en Moor. The performance was free of charge and lasted about two ·hours. Tony Pallone was Master ·Of Cereomonies. . The first act saw the welcomed return of Evan Pickus and LeslieShamilzadah. Evan opened up the act once aga!n with the beautiful song, \Fathers and Sons\ from the show ''Working\ .. \Working\, as explained by Evan, was a show done by a collaboration of different songs, created by various artists about the workmg class·of America. Evan sang another tWle from that show by James Taylor entitled \Millwork\. Iri addition, he sang a couple of melodies from \Westside Story\ and· Barry Manilow. Leslie's powerfUl and clear voice sang \Somewhere from \Westside Story\ \EvergreenH from '\A Star is Born\ and \Nobody Does it Better\ from the James Bond movie, \The Spy Who Loved Me\.. Evan and Leslie per- formed a harmonious du.et together singing, \Separate Lives\ by Phil Collins and \You Don't Bring Me Flowers\ by Neil Diamond. : --·_,. . . Overall, Evan's voice was strong and beautiful and Leslie's magnificnet singing made it all seem effortless. Their choice of songs were e~tertaining and a treat to listen to. After a ten-minute in- termission, Brian Laux and Ken Moor otherwise known as the \Shadow Captains\ performed tbe seqond act. Most of the ~ongs ··.were original, and folksy m character, many of them telling a story from Ken or Brian's past experiences. The first song entitled, 1 'Jazz Man\ w:as .sung by Ken Moor, playing on the guitar. Brian's high tenor harmcmized to many of the songs.sung by .Ken's lower tenor voice. Their timing was perfect and each original tune was stLng beautifully by the blend of their unique and expressionate voices. While Ken e:xpertly strummed the guitar, Brian hannQnized with the harmonica to many of the son_gs such as \I Loved You'' and \Sung For You\. They also Sang some popular melodies by Bob Dylan and Harry Chapin. Ken sang an original, outstanding ballad caned, \New England Jesse James\ which was quite en- tertaining and captured the folksy spirit of their act. T(Jwards the end of the show, Brian and Ken presented a slide show of Washington State as a backdrop · to their song, \Paradise on Earth\ praising the natural beauty of the state. They ended their act with a beautiful song called \Last Supper\ and a duet, \Mystical Mamma'' .. \Th~ .Shi:tdow Captains'' gav~. us an excellent and unique performance{ Their original songs were wonderful and meaningful and will hopefully be shared with the rest of the country some. day. W~ use no artificial flavors, colors, or preservatives in any of our products * Pies, Cakes, Breads 1902 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 .... Cookies, Pastries, Donuts Tuesday-Friday 8-6 Saturday 8-4 There's an unforgettable magic when you fall in live while that \special'' music swirls around you and your · partner on the fartce floor. It's rather appropriate that The Romantics, one of America's top pop bands, captures that exact feeling on their new album. Tile proof is in Rhythm Romance, the group's fifth LP on Nemperor Records. Co~ prodq.ced by the stenar team of Peter Solley, Gordon Fordyce and the Romantics, Rhythm Romance is a collection of 1ft bouyant pop tunes that feature air~tight harmonies, coupled with ringing guitars that boast an R&B edge. In other words, it'S the kind of music that puts a smile on your face and a slight bounce in your walk. Scoring lasf year with the Top 5 international smash, \Talking in your Sleep,\ The Romantics saw the inside of pr.actically every auditorium and club in America-not to mention a few in Japan, France, Australia and points .in between. The incessant touring paid off, for when The Romantics returned home to Detroit, their In Heat album had been certified golji and they had captured the hearts of the world. Not ones to rest on their black, snake-skinned laurels, the boys took a short breather and then headed south to Miami to record ·the follow-up to Ifi Heat. Bubbling with the ·enthusiasm usually reserved for a first date, Rhythm . Romance is loaded with material destined to become future Romantics' classics. From the hook-laden \Better Make a Move\ to the energetic \Let's Get Started,\ the album throbs with powerful pop rock perfectly suited for cruising, dancing and romancing. \Test of Time,\ with its crisp, Sixties-ish Motown melody and harmonies, charted as the first single. And \Mystified a pulsating R&B tune with a big, fat bass line is the second single, with dance clubs and radio playing a special, re-mixed dance version of the tune, created by· Michael llllllliiiii11111HIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIPIIIIIUIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIHIIII1fiiHIIIUIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIUIIIIIII1JIIIIIIIJ11111111UIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIUIIIII This Week in the Arts February6-0n Campus: Public Speaking Contest Off Campus: OnYourToes, Proctor's~ 8 p.m. ' February 7-0n Campus_: Wild Video, Dance!, Old Chapel, 10 p.m . . On Campus: Music of India, Performing Arts Studio, 7:30p.m. Off Campus: Verdict, The Egg, Albany, 8 p.m. Off Campus: Don Armstron~ and Victoria Garvey, Caffe Lena, Saratoga . Springs, 8:30p.m., Saturday also ... · . February 8-0n Campus: Dinner Comedy, Old Chapel, 7 p.m. Off Campus: Verdict, The Egg, Albany, 8 p.m. ~· Off Campus: Goodbye Freddy, Capital Repertory, Market Theatre in Albany, 4: 30 and 9: 00 p.m. February 9---Qn Campus: Late Nite Bites Jam Session, Hale House Lowes . . Lounge, 9:30p.m: Off Campus: Goodbye Freddy, ·Capital Rep~rtory, 2:30p.m. February 10-· Off Campus: poodbye Freddy, Capital Repertory, 8 p.m. and through February,l2. IIIUUIIIIIIIIIJIIIIII!IIIIhlllllllllllllllllllhiiiiiiU!IIIIIIitlllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIllllllllllltllllhliiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllllliiiiiJJUIIillllliiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIhlllll Brauer, whose previous effarts include Aretha Franklin's smash, \Freeway of Love.\ And true to their earlier LP's, The Romantics have also thrown in a cover tune for good measure-!'Poison Ivy,\ originally recorded by the Coasters, gets a Romanticized send-up, and it'll never be quite the same. Guitarist Wally Palmar, along with new drummer and Detroit-trans.plant David Petratos, now handle the lead vocal duties, while bassist Mike _Skill and guitari~:>i Coz Canler ·round out the group and provide the layered backgrmmd har- monies. · ·Because the nucleus of The Romantics grew up in Detroit, the band's roots are buried de~p within the Motor City. They naturally spent a lot of time listening to the snap and pop of Motown, but when the British Invasion hit the shores of America in the early sixties, Wally and Mike were instantly hooked by the simple, forceful rhythms the Englishmen brought with them. Although the \Romantics Sound\ is distinctly the band's own, the unique ,,combination, of the Motown-British _influences helped to point them in their own direction. Actually formed in 1977, The Romantics gained national exposure on the strength of their FM staple, \What I Like About You\ in 1980. They followed the success for their self-titled debut album with National Breakout, Strictly Personal and the highly- acclaimed In Heat album. And now, with the release of Rhythm Romance, expect Wally, Mike,. Coz and David to spend a lot more time on the road, bringing their music directly to their fans all over the world. The Romantics have always been known for the raving intensity of their live performances, and now it only promises to get even more intense and more lively-and, of course, more fun. Rhythm Romance. It's a relationship worth getting into. Music Of South India Friday, February 7th K.S. Subr-amanian, Vina T .S. Sankaran, Mrdangam 7:30 P.A.S. Arts Building Winter lmprov Series

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Fehruary6.1986 C!LDttntfhitttsfS LETTERS Fot.utdni al timon College 1877 ------------ --~---- Union's Future Does Union College offer the students what they want? This question has been the subject of discussion for the past few months and the present times may someday be reviewed as a watershed when observers judge the college and review its mistakes. Union and its administrators have been the object of a lot of criticism of Jate. Of course, the accusation of a lack of social alternatives on campus; due to the drinking age change, is at the top of everyone's list.· However,there are many others. We c~n't understand why the cost of tuition has skyrocketed, while we don't seem to be getting a heck of a lot more for our money. While we used to go to classes with 12, 13, and 14 other students, we now find that there are 20, 30, and 40 students in them. In addition, students are closed out of courses and the entire registration procedure has become disappointing. Then, there is the faculty. In many cases, we look on our professor's doors and find that their office hours typically read: 11:30-12:30 (Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday) or by appointment. Quite- often they are more interested in publishing than teaching, which seems to be the way to get tenure here at Union. Believe it or not, many professors don't even know the names of their students; even if they have had them in class more than two or three times. The ~ollege has even been a-ccused of a lack of concern for its students. Our security and safety has become jeopardi~ed in more than one way. \A mad attacker\ runs around the campus discouraging women from walking alone at night. The paths and roadways are not cleared efficiently from snow and ice making everyday walking across campus a hazardous.activity. Adding to all of this, our clock doesn't even keep the right time. Yes, the college and its administrators can deny that all or any of these are problems on the Union campus by providing us with all the \logical\ answers to these questions. Yes, there are ex- ceptions to many of these problems, but it is these problem as a whole \trend And the students that are here today will go on, only because we don't have any alternatives. WE have no place else to go. But, the students of tomorrow will have choices. They will have the option to pay $5,000 or $6,000 to go to their state school rather than $14,000 or $15,000 to go to Union, and you'll have to admit that we don't get $10,000 more education than SUNY Albany students. Even more, they'll know (from us) that what Union claims it offers simply isn't true. Union claims to be a small school. But WE don't get small classes, and we don't get professors that know our names, and we dQn't get the security-safety of a small upstate college. _ We are not criticizing merely for the sake of criticism. Students here do have some legitimate complaints and have some good suggestions. So, the administrators that are sitting behind their desks and reading this and saying to them- selves: \It's only Concordiensis.They don't know what they're talking about\ better think. twice· about acting fast. Qtherwise you'll be judged and your grave mistakes will be reviewed and we all won't be here to cry about them. Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Let's Protect Ourselves To the Editor: In last week's commentary, Paul Schop; a clear-sighted realist, suggested some changes for our criminal justice system, the system which allowed a victim of violence, Bernhard Goetz, to stand trail for such charges as attempted murder, assaUlt, and reckless endangerment. Mr. Schop is one of a handfUl of journalists who does not take a liberal stand on the Goetz case. Schop suggested the following: easier access to handguns for qualified citizens, severe penalties for those committing crimes with firearms, the death penalty in New York, and the dismissal of all charges against Goetz. But Mr. Schop stopped too early. These changes simply would not be enough. The police are not and cannot be omnipresent in a democratic society like ours. It is therefore our duty to protect ourselves. The constitution guarantees us the right to bear arms. Yet we cannot be safe in a society in which everyone is given a gun. Of course., we cannot directly foresee who the criminals will be. However, we can use such statistics as age, sex, and in- come to see who woUld be most likely to commit a crime. In this way, those who are less likely to commit a crime will be able to buy weapons · of self defense, and protect themselves and others. For example, a wealthy elderly. female citizen coUld buy anything from a hand gun to a fully equipped Pershing Missile, to be used for ,self defense. On the other hand, a young, poor, potential criminal would have to be restricted from buying even a butter knife. 'fo further reduce the riskJ severe penalties must be placed , on those who use weapons to commit violent crimes. Any person even tried of such a crime, . whether the alleged weapon was used to kill or for the intent of . killing, woUld automatically face the death penalty. This woUld not only deter people from committing crimes, but weuld also put a halt to repeat offenders. Lastly, all charges against Goetz should be drop(!ed. Goetz was forced to illegally carry a gun to protect himSelf. He was right ln shoottng the four thugs who used lethal weapons in trying to rob him.. If . he had killed these criminals, one would not have been able to rape a woman after the in- cident. Such people are a menace to society; we must have some means to kill them as a means of defense. In a system such as the one proposed here, the criminal would not be able to even get near a lethal weapon-except, of course; for the weapon of a citizen defending himself against that criminal. · Bcrb Goldstein Cartoon Offends To the Editor: I wish to comment on last week's \bonus cartoon,\ not just because it depicts the \typical\ female Union student as a money-hungry brainless idiot, but also because it. demeans an issue which is very important and very UN-funny. If this was supposed to be light amusement, it failed because it was not funny. 1f satire was intended, it failed miserably- being legitimately scared is not human footishness. I find no hmnor in the fact that women must consider the fact that whenever they walk alone at night they are potential victims. This ''cartoon\ is just one example indicating the lack of seriousness given to this issue by many people. An equally blatant example exists in the ''tyPical\ male students I saw wearing ski masks for fun, shortly after the attack on campus. Is it because men rarely, if ever, find themselves in similar situations and-or feel the same helplessness, that they can dismiss (as foolishnesss) a justifiable fear that women live witli all the time? I find the lack of empathy and concern very disheartening. I find this type of humor to be harmful because it perpetuates the present treatment of our fears as in- consequential. · · Sigrid Juncker '87 - Escort Service Available Dear Editor: The Women's Network would like to encourage students on and off campus to make use of the newly expanded escort service. The new program · includes, a student driven car available from 8:00p.m. to 1:00 a.m. to pick up and deliver students on and off campus. In addition the eltisting security car will handle any overload requests during this time period· and will continue to provide service, when the student car is not on duty. There will also be a foot patrol that will be making rounds in the library all night study at 9:00, 10:00, and 11:00 p.m. We encourage students who want to leave the library around these times alone to wait for the student escort to arrive. The purpose of these new services is to make it as easy as possible to use the escort ser- vice and stay safe. There is no reason for students to be walking alone at night. Do not be afraid to call security for a ride for any reason, it is their job to keep us safe. We have taken the first step by helping to establish an easily accessible service, the rest is up to you, use Have Fun To the Editor: Okay, Union, how many times have you heard the phrase: \There's NOTIDNG to do on this campus\ in the last four · weeks? Frankly, it's been said one too many times and I'm sick to death of hearing, it. We all knew that there were going to be changes here this Continued on page 12 the resources we have and do not walk alone! At this time, we woUld like to take the opportunity to thank Dean Mammola for his con- tinued help and support from the very beginning. Thanks is also due to Cliff Wood of Securtiy for working with us to establish a workable plan and to Mr. Houser for securing the funds. In addition, we ap. preciate the support and ~put of the women's commission and Joane Tobiessen for giving us and the. administration that e:Irtra push. Than}ts to all of you and anyone else we forgot to mention, the campus is a safer · place. Let us all work together to keep it that way I Sincerely, Sigrid JWlcker arid LYnn Hano Women's Network 1 1 I 1 l ·r s h lJ t Il n c r 0 s i1 a b }, d A

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, February 6, 1986 0.JDn.ntfbitttsfS LETTERS Fo~J at limon College 1877 ------------ ----------- Union's Future Does Union College offer the students what they want? This question has been the subject of discussion for the past few months and the present times may someday be reviewed as a watershed when observers judge the college and review its mistakes. Union and its administrators have been the object of a lot of criticism of .late. Of course, the accusation of a lack of social alternatives on campus, due to the drinking age change, is at the top of everyone's list. However,there are many others. We can't understand why the cost of tuition has skyrocketed, while we don't seem to be getting a heck of a lot more for our money. While we used to go to classes with 12, 13, and 14 other students, we now find that there are 20, 30, and 40 students in them. In addition, students are closed out of courses and the entire registration procedure has become disappointing. Then, there is the faculty. In many cases, we look on our professor's doors and find that their office hours typically read: 11: 30-12: 30 (Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday) or by appointment. Quite often they are more interested in publishing than teaching, which seems to be the way to get tenure here at Union. Believe it or not, many professors don't even know the names of their students; even if they have had them in class more than two or three times. The c:;;ollege has even been accused of a lack of concern for its students. Our security and safety has become jeopardized in more than one way. ''A mad attacker\ runs around the campus discouraging women from walking alone at night. The paths and roadways are not cleared efficiently from snow and ice making everyday walking across campus a hazardous activity. Adding to all of this, our clock doesn't even keep the right time. Yes, the college and its administrators can deny that all or any of these are problems on the Union campus by providing us with all the \logical\ answers to these questions. Yes, there are ex- ceptions to many of these problems, but it is these problem as a whole \trend.\ And the students that are here today will go on, only because we don't have any alternatives. WE have no place else to go. But, the students of tomorrow will have choices. They will have the option to pay $5,000 or $6,000 to go to their state school rather than $14,000 or $15,000 to go to Union, and you'll have to admit that we don't get $10,000 more education than SUNY Albany students. Even more, they 1 ll know (from us) that what Union claims it offers simply isn't true. Union claims to be a small school. But WE don't get small classes, and we don't get professors that know our names, and we don't get the security-safety of a small upstate college. We are not criticizing merely for the sake of criticism. Students here do have some legitimate complaints and have some good suggestions. So, the administrators that are sitting behind their desks and reading this and saying to them- selves: \It's only Concordiensis.They don't know what they're talking about\ better think. twice about acting fast. Otherwise you'll be judged and your grave mistakes will be revtewed and we all won't be here to cry about them. letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Let's Protect Ourselves To the Editor: In last week's commentary, Paul Schop, a clear-sighted realist, suggested some changes for our criminal justice system, the system Which allowed a victim of violence, Bernhard Goetz, to stand traH for such charges as attempted murder, assault, and reckless endangerment. Mr. Schop is one of a handful of journalists who does not take a liberal stand on the Goetz case. Schop suggested the following: easier access to handguns for qualified citizens, severe penalties for those committing crimes with firearms, the death penalty in New York, and the dismissal of all charges against Goetz. But Mr. Schop stopped too early. These changes simply would not be enough. The police are not and cannot be omnipresent in a democratic society like ours. It is therefore our duty to protect ourselves. The constitution guarantees us the right to bear arms. Yet we cannot be safe in a society in which everyone is given a gun. Of course, we cannot directly foresee who the criminals will be. However, we can use such statistics as age, sex, and in- come to see who would be most likely to commit a crime. In this way, those who are less likely to commit a crime will be able to buy weapons · of self defense, and protect themselves and others. For example, a wealthy elderly, female citizen could buy anything from a hand gun to a fully equipped Pershing Missile, to be used for self defense. On the other hand, a young, poor, potential criminal would have to be restricted from buying even a butter knife. To further reduce the risk, severe penalties must be placed on those who use weapons to commit violent crimes. Any person even tried of such a crime, whether the alleged weapon was used to kill or for the intent of killing, would automatically face the death penalty. This would not only deter people from committing crirnes, but would also put a halt to repeat offenders. Lastly, an charges against Goetz sl:lould be dropped. Goetz was forced to illegally carry a gun to protect himself. He was right in shooting the four thugs who used lethal weapons in trying to rob him. If he had kiUed these criminals, one would not have been able to rape a woman after the in- cident. Snell people are a menace to society; we must have some means to kill them as a means of defense. In a system such as the one proposed here, the criminal would not be able to even get near a lethal weapon-except, of course; for the weapon of a citizen defending himself against that criminal. Bob Goldstein Cartoon Offends To the Editor: I wish to comment on last week's \bonus cartoon,\ not just because it depicts the \typical\ female Union student as a money-hungry brainless idiot, but also because it demeans an issue which is very important and very UN-funny. If this was supposed to be light amusement, it failed because it was not funny. If satire was intended, it failed miserably- being legitimately scared is not hwnan foolishness. I find no hwnor in the fact that women must consider the fact that whenever they walk alone at night they are potential victims. This \cartoon\ is just one example indicating the lack of seriousness given to this issue by many people. An equally blatant example exists in the \tYPical\ male students I saw wearing ski masks for fun, shortly after the attack on campus. Is it because men rarely, if ever, find themselves in similar sitaations and-or feel the same helplessness, that they can dismiss (as foolishnesss) a justifiable fear that women live witli all the time? I find the lack of empathy and concern very disheartening. I find this type of humor to be harmful because it perpetuates the present treatment of our fears as in- consequential. SigridJuncker '87 Escort Service Available Dear Editor: The Women's Network would like to encourage students on and off campus to make use of the newly expanded escort service. The new program includes, a student driven car available from 8:00p.m. to 1:00 a.m. to pick up and deliver students on and off campus. In addition the existing security car will handle any overload requests during this time period and will continue to provide service, when the student car is not on duty. There will also be a foot patrol that will be making rounds in the library all night study at 9:00, 10:00, and 11:00 p.m. We encourage students who want to leave the library around these times alone to wait for the student escort to arrive. The purpose of these new services is to make it as easy as possible to use the escort ser- vice and stay safe. There is no reason for students to be walking alone at night. Do not be afraid to call security for a ride for any reason, it is their job to keep us safe. We have taken the first step by helping to establish an easily accessible service, the rest is up to you, use Have Fun To the Editor: Okay, Union, how many times have you heard the phrase: \There's NOTHING to do on this campus\ in the last four weeks? Frankly, it's been said one too many times and I'm sick to death of hearing. it. We all knew that there were going to be changes here this Continued on page 12 the resources we have and do not walk alone! At this time, we would like to take the opportunity to thank Dean Manunola for his con- tinued help and support from the very beginning. Thanks is also due to Cliff Wood of Securtiy for working with us to establish a workable plan and to Mr. Houser for securing the funds. In addition, we ap- preciate the support and input of the women's commission and Joane Tobiessen for giving us and the administration that extra push. Than~s to all of you and anyone else we forgot to mention, the campus is a safer place. Let us all work together t() keep it that way! Sincerely, Sigrid J Wlcker and Lynn Hano Women'sNetwork E ' t 1 l J ( ~ t ~ t t t r r c r (] s il B t l d l f, 0 a s 0 v c s c d v E

• CONCORDIENSIS, February 6, 1'986 Page 11 ·Apartheid Issue Re-Addressed To the Editors: This letter is written in response to the article \An Apology to South Africa,'' written by Brian Kelly and the letter to the editor \Apartheid Issues Addressed\ written by someone who chose to remain anonymous. Both of these ar- ticles are written by .prejudiced and.bigotedpeople. The articles are ignorant,, and are over- flowing with misinterpretation and misinformation. It would take forever to try to disen- tangle these elaborately wo:ven webs of lies, but I will point out some of the many gross errors within these articles. Mr. Kelly states \The Dutch who settled around the Cape of Good Hope in the late 17th into th~ 18th Century encountered few if any Blacks living in the southernmost region of the country. As they migrated north ... they ran across the Zulu and other small tribal com· munities who recently had established their homelands.\ He then goes on to imply that Blacks began to migrate into that region only after the establishment of the ratlroads. Come on, is he trying to say that the Whites were. the first set- tlers of Southern Africa? Here is a blatant example of Mr. Kelly's misrepresentation of the facts. As stated in the Columbia Encyclopedia (2nd Edition, Columbia University Press), \The Cape of Good Hope .... was an ideal supply station, and in 1652, at Capetown, the Dutch East India . Company eStablished the first pennanent white settlement and expelled the native Hottentot (Khoi-khoi) and the Bushman (San) inhabitors.\ When the Boers migrated from the Cape in the 1830's they defeated ·the Buntu inhabitants and forced them to live on small reservations (just To tlie Editor: I have a, suggestion for \Name Withheld Upon Request\: . pick up a history book and READ it! Perhaps if you did, you would be a bit more cautious about what you say and would not sQbject us \holier than thou liberals\ ,to your seemingly endless verbiage. Even a cursory glance at the history (both of the past and that currently in the making) of South Africa, would illustrate that it is not ill-informed liberalism which leads people like myself to oppose apartheid, but a well founded.sense of what it means to be' a citizen of a democratic society and more importantly-a human being. It is no secret that the United States has a rather bleak history in terms of civil rights, but is that any reason to ignore the blatant injustices com- mitted by leaders of other nations? We certainly must be careful not to preach empty rhetoric to other nations, but if our belief in democracy is as strong as we claim, then we owe · it to ourselves as individuals and as a nation to defend that belief where it is defendable. And in no place does it need defending more than in South Africa. Can we really put any kind of faith in our Constitution if we only selectively choose to acknowledge its precepts? In South Africa, the vast majority ofthe population i..~:~ denied what we are guaranteed. How can W£! condone that by continuing to support repression and the consequent destruction of in- dividuallty? Look at history! We fought a war -against the like the American Indian), and were forbidden to acquire land ouside. Radio carbon dating proves there were African settlements in the Transvaal as early as the 5th Century A;D. These facts can be looked up within the local encylopedia, but it's too bad that Mr. Kelly never bothered to do so. Mr. Kelly goes on to say that one of the most misjudged assumptions about South Africa is that there exist a vast majority of Blacks. This is one orMr, 'K~lly's most outlandish presentation of misinformation. The country of SoUth Africa has nearly 24 million Blacks, nearly 2.8 rill.llion colored and about . 900,000 Indians in comparison to the 5 million Whites. The majority is definitely composed of Blacks and nonwhites. Mr. Kelly also .says that Blacks are united orily by pigmentation and by some common religious and political idealogies. My God, by what.more does he want them to be united if not by ·their pigmentation and idealogies? Next to be addressed is the letter written by someone who so firmly stands by their con- victions that they wished to remain anonymous. continue with their system of Apartheid.·· Tell me, does this make any sense? The letter written also claims that there was a change through the \bloody process of civil strife which took hundreds of thousands of lives at least in the Civil War and billions of dollars in property:\ Is he-she trying to say it costs too much money and too many lives· to gain freedom? Because economically it's not to our .advantage, the Blacks shall remain oppressed? Is he-she saying that slaves should't be freed because it costs too much money? One of the most ridiculous of all the letter writer's statements is that ''no one has to raise money for South Afican human relief, only communist countries like Ethiopia fall into that category.\ Perhaps the letter writer should take a look at a map.. Ethiopia and surrounding countries suffer from drought and famine because they are in dry, desert plains. The problems of famine and drought predate Marxism. Even in the US people are raising money to aid the homeless and hungry in our own country. Yes, the US, the The letter__.written praises Mr. epitome of communism. Kelly and uses the example of These articles do not focus on Jim Crow policies to further the human condition, the support his claim for Apartheid struggle of the oppressed. No, in South Africa. The logic is these articles in all of their unsound and fatls to prove · glory focus upon the political anything except that Blacks are and economic structures of not worth the time of Hday. We democracy and communism. If can look at the argument from America is to be the epitome of diff~re,nt p~rspective~. )\~s the,, .d~mocra.~y )~y,which .a4,otners US had JID1 Crow laws-; we are to be compared~smce when thought they were really great, has diversity become a bar to therefore we believe that South improvement? When has it · Afica should continue with their become better to live on one's system of Apartheid.' Or, 'yes~ knees than to die On. one's feet? the US had Jim Crow laws and You tell me. we found them to .J>e really bad and a mistake on our part, therefore South Africa should blacks in South Africa are fighting that same fight within their own country (think for a moment if you can even say ''their own country'' since · blacks are not citizens of South Africa). Blacks have not sought a violent resolution of their troubles; they have been forced down that road by the in- transigence of the government which claims to be acting in their interest. I will only briefly address the complete inaccuracy of the analysis proffered by last week's contributor in order that people on this . campus will be able to formulate their views based on accuracy, rather than rhetoric. I have already mentioned the absence of democracy in South Afica, but I have yet to tackle its so-called economic viability. Name Withheld stated that South Africa possesses \ .... an economy that produces enough material wealth {or the vast majority of all of its citizens to qualify as an industrialized nation.\ I'm not exactly sure what this means, but if it is meant to imply that all are well provided for in South Africa, I suggest that people consider the fact that many South African children are malnourished, that blacks have been herded off to desolate \homelands'' and that black child.ren receive an ..... Sincerely, Kimberly M. Carr education absurdly inferior to that of white . children. Fur- thermore, the industrial complex in South Mrica is fueled by slave labor. Ask yourself what would happen to this viable economy if the slaves revolted en masse. As for the . \valid points\ concerning South Africa's declaration of war against Germany during World War II, it is worthwhile to note that the British (who were in South Africa at the time) had to in- carcerate members of the native political leadership because they were Nazis. If Name Withheld is so concerned about communist infiltration of ·the African continent, why does s-he ignore the contemporary Nazi affiliations of some South Afican political leaders? Are Nazis better or more tolerable than Conununists? One last point. Several years ago, I visited South Africa (after a lengthier stay. in Zimbabwe), and I went there with as open a mind as I could muster for the occasion. I have never in my life felt as un- comfortable as I did during that visit. There was ·such beauty surrounded by such ugliness and grief. Open your eyes. If you can't visit the country, at least think about what it represents. Nina Mogihlik'-1986 All Letters to the Editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday be.fore publication. All Letters must be sig_ned, but names will be wl.thheld upon request. · British to ob~am·our ft'eedom: 'L-.. _ _..... ____________ ._._ _____ ---.....~ _, LETTERS Exams Scbed uled To the Union Student Body: At my January 27 meeting with the Student Affairs Council I promised to try and have the Winter Term Final Exam Schedule ready for inclusion in the February 6 issue of the Concordy. As you can see from looking through today's paper, I did not make it. The schedule will, however, be published in next week's issue .. Since the first day of final exams is not until March 17, you still will , have· the schedule more than 30 days before exams. This should allow you time (if you act right away after the schedule is published) to make airline or other reservations at the reduced rate. I hope this will be seen as some improvement over our past practice which was to publish the exam schedule in the last Concordy of the term. Dwight Wolf Registrar What's The Ratio? To the Editor: Will all these Name Withheld p~ople help me to get some so]jd mforrnation? Week after week I hear about the \scandalously high studenHaculty ratio,\ but nobody ever says what it is. Enough, apparently, to cry scandal without the in- convenience of facts. Let the complainers about ratios do some homework on these questions: 1. What do you claim the student-faculty ratio is these days? 2. What figures did you use to get that ratio? 3. What is the ratio at other colleges to which we can reasonably compare ourselves? 4. What figures did they use to calculate the ratios? Anyone who thinks these are simple questions will soon learn they aren't. And the simple- minded faith in ratios will turn out to have little to do with whether a particular course is too large. Alan Nelson Department of English Shop .Courses Needed To the Editor: ~ The Union ~ollege a.rts department 1s mssmg something very important: industrial arts. There is an amazing shop Qn _campus with beautiful tools, but it is only for the· maintenance people. I would like that shop to be opened up for student use at least, if not for classes. We should also have a few garage bays available to work on our cars. Now if one wants to get underneath their ear, they have to lie in six inches of slush. This is supposed to be a liberal arts college so we should be offered_ a little bit of everything. A good car class would probably be one of the most worthwhile courses, and would help students moe in life than most of the courses now offered. Industrial arts would also enhance many of the engineering courses since there are probably engineers here who have never built anything in their lives! Matthew Arnold Classo£'89 More on- Apartheid .... Dear Editor: After reading the letter ad- dressing Apartheid last week, I feel I must respond to the various comments made in that letter. Name Withheld stated last week that ''South africa was the only nation in Africa that had any resemblance of a democracy.\ Even though democracy is a hard word to define, I feel that the average person would agree wih me in saying that Kenya and Egypt are two of several other democracies in Mrica. Some might even say that calling South Africa a democracy is a mockery of the word,· since most 'take it as meaning government by the people, and not just the light-skinned people. Name Withhelii also pointed out that South Africa \produces enough material wealth for the vast majority of its citizens to qualify as an industrialized nation.\ Whether or not this is true (blacks are second-class \citizens\), the real crime is th-at the burden of the economy is placed upon the black labor force, with the white man being paid two titnes as much as the .,... .. man is paid for the same • Al. It is also interesting in that Namt> Withheld states that \no one ;.as to raise funds for South African human relief. Only communist countries like Ethiopia fall into that category!' What a truly lgnorant point of view! Ethiopia's problems,. although compounded by the govern- ment, were created by bad weather conditions, not political or economical conditions. The fact that many twentieth century revolutions have resulted in a communist government is an unfortunate fact. The real issue is why did they turn to communism. Is it because the communists were the only people who would befriend these revolutionaries? Perhaps the communists are smarter than we are, and maybe this is what Reagan is beginning to experiment with now. I recently had the opportunity to visit South Africa for six weeks, staying not in hotels but with various families (whites) which I had never met before Living with these people ana hearing their opinions gave me insights into Apartheid and it's possible demise which are very different to Name Withheld's. First to all, norte of these famtlies felt that Apartheid would be ended peacefully. The white South Afrikaaner has come to the realization that giving blacks equal rights would mean an end to life as they know it. Even the white South Africans that deplored Apartheid admitted that, un- fortunately, there was noway to bring it to a peaceful end. -Perhaps this danger of revolution is why South Africa is one of the few countries in the world that has a mandatory service time in the armed forces for all white males. Continued on page 13

! CONCORDIENSIS, February 6, 1986 Pa~e 11 Apartheid Issue Re-Addressed To the Editors: This letter is written in response to the article \An Apology to South Afri:ca,\ written by Brian Kelly and the letter to the editor ''Apartheid Issues Addressed\ written by someone who chose to remain anonymous. Both of these ar- ticles are written by prejudiced and bigoted people. The articles are ignorant,, and are over- flowing with misinterpretation and misinformation. It would take forever to try to disen- tangle these elal>orately woven webs of lies, but I will point out some of the many gross errors within these articles. Mr. Kelly states \The Dutch who settled around the Cape of Good Hope in the late 17th into the 18th Century encountered few if any Blacks living in the southernmost region of the country. As they migrated north ... they ran across the Zulu and other small tribal com- munities who recently had established their homelands.\ He then goes on to imply that Blacks began to migrate into that region only after the establishment of the railroads. Come on, is he trying to say that the Whites were the first set- tlers of Southern Africa? Here is a blatant example of Mr. Kelly's misrepresentation of the facts. As stated in the Columbia Encyclopedia (2nd Edition, Columbia University Press), \The Cape of Good Hope ... was an ideal supply station, and in 1652, at Capetown, the Dutch East India Company established the first permanent white settlement and expelled the native Hottentot (Khoi-khoi) and the Bushman (San) inhabiters.\ When the Boers migrated from the Cape in the 1830's they defeated the Buntu inhabitants and forced them to live on small reservations (just To tne Editor: I have a_ suggestion for \Name Withheld Upon Request\: pick up a history book and READ it! Perhaps if you did, you would be a bit more cautious about what you say and would not subject us \holier than thou liberals\ to your seemingly endless verbiage. Even a cursory glance at the history (both of the past and that currently in the making) of South Africa, would illustrate that it is not ill-informed liberalism which leads people like myself to oppose apartheid, but a well founded sense of what it means to be a citizen of a democratic society and more importantly-a hliiilan being. It is no secret that the United States has a rather bleak history in terms of civil rights, but is that any reason to ignore the blatant injustices com- mitted by leaders of other nations? We certainly must be careful not to preach empty rhetoric to other nations, but if our belief in democracy is as strong as we claim, then we owe it to ourselves as individuals and as a nation to defend that belief where it is defendable. And in no place does it need defending more than in South Africa. Can we really put any kind of faith in our Constitution if we only selectively choose to acknowledge its precepts? In South Africa, the vast majority of the population is denied what we are guaranteed. How can we condone that by continuing to support repression and the consequent destruction of in- dividuality? Look at history! We fought a war against the British to obtain oar freedom: like the American Indian), and were forbidden to acquire land ouside. Radio carbon dating proves there were African settlements in the Transvaal as early as the 5th Century A.D. These facts can be looked up within the local encylopedia, but it's too bad that Mr. Kelly never bothered to do so. Mr. Kelly goes on to say that one of the most misjudged assumptions about South Africa is that there exist a vast majority of Blacks. This is one of Mr. Kelly's most outlandish presentation of misinformation. The country of South Africa has nearly 24 million Blacks, nearly 2.8 million colored and about 900,000 Indians in comparison to the 5 million Whites. The majority is definitely composed of Blacks and nonwhites. Mr. Kelly also says that Blacks are united only by pigmentation and by some common religious and political idealogies. My God, by what more does he want them to be united if not by their pigmentation and idealogies? Next to be addressed is the letter written by someone who so firmly stands by their con- victions that they wished to remain anonymous. The letter_ written praises Mr. Kelly and uses the example of Jim Crow policies to further support his claim for Apartheid in South Africa. The logic is unsound and fails to prove anything except that Blacks are not worth the time of day. We can look at the argument from different perspectives. Yes, the US had Jim Crow laws; we thought they were really great, therefore we believe that South Afica should continue with their system of Apartheid.' Or, 'yes, the US had Jim Crow laws and we found them to be really bad and a mistake on our part, therefore South Africa should blacks in South Africa are fighting that same fight within their own country (think for a moment if you can even say \their own country\ since · blacks are not citizens of South Africa). Blacks have not sought a violent resolution of their troubles; they have been forced down that road by the in- transigence of the government which claims to be acting in their interest. I will only briefly address the complete inaccuracy of the analysis proffered by last week's contributor in order that people on this campus will be able to formulate their views based on accuracy, rather than rhetoric. I have already mentioned the absence of democracy in South Mica, but I have yet to tackle its so-called economic viability. Name Withheld stated that South Africa possesses \ ... an economy that produces enough material wealth £or the vast majority of all of its citizens to qualify as an industrialized nation.'' I'm not exactly sure what this means, but if it is meant to imply that all are well provided for in South Africa, I suggest that people consider the fact that many South African children are malnourished, that blacks have been herded off to desolate \homelands\ and that black children receive an continue with their system of Apartheid.'. Tell me, does this make any sense? The letter writte:n also claims that there was a change through the \bloody process of civil strife which took hundreds of thousands of lives at least in the Civil War and billions of dollars in property.\ Is he-she trying to say it costs too much money and too many lives to gain freedom? Because economically it's not to our advantage, the Blacks shall remain oppressed? Is he-she saying that slaves should't be freed because it costs too much money? One of the most ridiculous of all the letter writer's statements is that \no one has to raise money for South Afican human relief, only communist countries like Ethiopia fall into that category.\ Perhaps the letter writer should take a look at a map. Ethiopia and surrounding countries suffer from drought and famine because they are in dry, desert plains. The problems of famine and drought predate Marxism. Even in the US people are raising money to aid the homeless and hungry in our own country. Yes, the US, the epitome of communism. These articles do not focus on the human condition, the struggle of the oppressed. No, these articles in all of their glory focus upon the political and economic structures of democracy and communism. If America is to be the epitome of democracy by which all others are to be compared-since when has diversity become a bar to improvement? When has it become better to live on one's knees than to die on one's feet? You tell me. Sincerely, Kimberly M. Carr education absurdly inferior to that of white children. Fur- thermore, the industrial complex: in South Africa is fueled by slave labor. Ask yourself what would happen to this viable economy if the slaves revolted en masse. As for the \valid points\ concerning South Africa's declaration of war against Germany during World War II, it is worthwhile to note that the British (who were in South Africa at the time) had to in- carcerate members of the native political leadership because they were Nazis. If Name Withheld is so concerned about communist infiltration of the African continent, why does s-he ignore the contemporary Nazi affiliations of some South Afican political leaders? Are Nazis better or more tolerable than Communists? One last point. Several years ago, I visited South Africa (after a lengthier stay in Zimbabwe), and I went there with as open a mind as I could muster for the occasion. I have never in my life felt as un- comfortable as I did during that visit. There was such beauty surrounded by such ugliness and grief. Open your eyes. If you can't visit the country, at least think about what it represents. Nina Mogilnik-1986 All Letters to the Editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All Letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. LETTERS Exams Scheduled To the Union Student Body: At my January 27 meeting with the Student Affairs Council I promised to try and have the Winter Term Final Ex:am Schedule ready for inclusion in the February 6 issue of the Concordy. As you can see from looking through today's paper, I did not make it. The schedule will, however, be published in next week's issue. Since the first day of final exams is not unUl March 17, you still will , have the schedule more than 30 days before exams. This should allow you time (if you act right away after the schedule is published) to make airline or other reservations at the reduced rate. I hope this will be seeB as some improvement over our past practice which was to publish the exam schedule in the last Concordy of the term. Dwight Wolf Registrar What's The Ratio? To the Editor: Will all these Name Withheld people help me to get some solid information? Week after week I hear about the \scandalously high student-faculty ratio,\ but nobody ever says what it is. Enough, apparently, to cry scandal without the in- convenience of facts. Let the complainers about ratios do some homework on these questions: 1. What do you claim the student-faculty ratio is these days? 2. What figures did you use to get that ratio? 3. What is the ratio at other colleges to which we can reasonably compare ourselves? 4. What figures did they use to calculate the ratios? Anyone who thinks these are simple questions will soon learn they aren't. And the simple- minded faith in ratios will turn out to have little to do with whether a particular course is too large. Alan Nelson Department of English Shop Courses Needed To the Editor: The Union ~ollege a.rts department 1s mssmg something very important: industrial arts. There is an amazing shop on campus with beautiful tools, but it is only for the maintenance people. I would like that shop to be opened up for student use at least, if not for classes. We should also have a few garage bays available to work on our cars. Now if one wants to get underneath their car, they have to lie in six inches of slush. This is supposed to be a liberal arts college so we should be offered_ a little bit of everything. A good car class would probably be one of the most worthwhile courses, and would help students moe in life than most of the courses now offered. Industrial arts would also enhance many of the engineering courses since there are probably engineers here who have never built anything in their lives! Matthew Arnold Class of '89 More on Apartheid .. Dear Editor: After reading the letter ad- dressing Apartheid last week, I feel I must respond to the various comments made in that letter. N arne Withheld stated last week that \South africa was the only nation in Africa that had any resemblance of a democracy.'' Even though democracy is a hard word to define, I feel that the average person would agree wih me in saying that Kenya and Egypt are two of several other democracies in Africa. Some might even say that calling South Africa a democracy is a mockery of the word, since most take it as meaning government by the people, and not just the light-skinned people. Name Withheld also pointed out that South Africa \produces enough material wealth for the vast majority of its citizens to qualify as an industrialized nation.'' Whether or not this is true (blacks are second-class \citizens\), the real crime is that the burden of the economy is placed upon the black labor force, with the white man being paili two times as much as the F . man is paid for the same I . . o. It is also interesting in that Naml:' Withheld states that \no one :.as to raise funds for South African human relief. Only communist countries like Ethiopia fall into that category.\ What a truly ignorant point of view! Ethiopia's problems, although compounded by the govern- ment, were created by bad weather conditions, not political or economical conditions. The fact that many twentieth century revolutions have resulted in a communist government is an unfortunate fact. The real issue is why did they turn to communism. Is it because the communists were the only people who would befriend these revolutionaries? Perhaps the communists are smarter than we are, and maybe this is what Reagan is beginning to experiment with now. I recently had the opportunity to visit South Africa for six weeks, staying not in hotels but with various families (whites' which I had never met before Living with these people ana hearing their opinions gave me insip;hts into Apartheid and it's possible demise which are very different to Name Withheld's. First to all, none of these families felt that Apartheid would be ended peacefully. The white South Afrikaaner has come to the realization that giving blacks equal rights would mean an end to life as they know it. Even the white South Africans that deplored Apartheid admitted that, un- fortunately, there was no way to bring it to a peaceful end. Perhaps this danger of revolution is why South Africa is one of the few countries in the world that has a mandatory service time in the armed forces for all white males. Continued on page 13

·Page 12 CONCORDTENSJS, February 6, 1986 , . - . .' . . . COMMENTARIES ~--~------------------------------------------------~--~ More on Apartheid To the Editor, As I was looking through_ last week's edition of Concordien- sis, I came across a letter by a Mr. \Name Withheld Upon · Request\ addressing the issue of Apartheid. After a first reading, I found myself quite enraged and wanting to resp!Jnd angrily in this. week's edition. However, after a second and third reading, I soon came to realize Mr. Request's intent. The letter he wrote was ob- viously a joke. I realized that there was no possible way someone could have written such a ludicrous statement in a serious manner. In actuality, the letter is a humorous message to those readers with any knowledge of apartheid. I personally enjoyed every word of it. I absolutely loved the beginning when he refers to those people against apartheid as \holier than thou liberals\ (super! • but the addition of the words ''bleeding heart\ would have added to the effect). Now, obviously, Mr. Request knows that feeling repulsed by apartheid cuts across political lines and is a human issue, not a political one. But he doesn't stop there. Next he says that we should keep quiet and not criticize South Africa because our blacks were oppressed 25 years ago. Yet, of course, we have been able to end our shameful institutionalization of racism, so why can't we put pressure on South Africa to do the same? The absurdity of his comment helps highlight some ofthe illogical rhetoric used by many apartheid supporters. This, however, is outdone by Mr. Request's irrelevant and ridiculous comparison between the blacks' struggle in South Africa to our Civil War. (great!) But, to top off the paragraph, he implies that the \anti-apartheid zealots\ (fantastic!') ·want to see changes in South Africa only through violent revolution. Of course he knows that many strive for a peaceful solution. Mr. Request has no shortage of clever anecdotes. He con· tinues by saying that we should actually support South Africa because it is the only stable and industrialized nation in Africa. Yet, I'm sure that the author has knowledge of the economic stability and industrialization of Hitler'.s Germany. Mr. Request then reminds us that South Africa is fighting communist forces on the continent. So what ifthe majority of the people liv~ like second-class citizens, as long as they're on the right, we should support them. We're also told that since South Africa was on our side during World War II 45 years ago, we have no right to criticize their d-emoralizing segregation of schools and hospitals. The perversity of this logic helps Mr. Request satirically point out the inane reasons to support South Africa .. Mr. Request saves the brilliance of his letter for the conclusion. THE FIRSr SENTENCE READS: ''It is not too late to stop South Africa from _becoming a 1980's example of this deadly pattern (of comm11nist · r·evolution followed by an oppressive regime).'' Listen to what he is actually saying: STOP demanding that South Africa give equal r,ights to their black Citizens. STOP asking them to create a .free state. It could ·be a DEADLY atld dangerous thing if the blacks in South Africa are allowed to live their lives with the same rights as the white minority. KEEP apartheid.- It's safe and stable. Mr. Request, I personally want to thank you for having such amazing insight and satirical skills to write something so fantastically ignorant and stupid to point out the idiotic, rationalized reasons again&t ending apartheid. . It was refreshing and quite en- tertaining to read such a clever piece of writing. However, the commentary section of the Concordy is really not a suitable place for sach sarcasm and satire. Also, many of us wish you had. included your real · name, so we can contratulate you. It's quite ironic that the people who usually have their name withheld are regarded as cowards andnot having pride in their convictions. Jay A. Cohen '87 Students' Views Censored To the Editor, On the evening of Tuesday, January 28 three students were the victims of an incredible incident of censorship on this campus. We think it is vital that the college community be aware of the events that took place, and which led to the violation of our rights. It is imperative that the question be raised: should any campus authority have the power to censor an expression of opinion? At 11: 40 p.m. we went to the Social Sciences Building with the intention of hanging several posters which raised questions about the content of por· nographic films. We found the doors locked, however, we saw a Security officer leaving the building and asked him to hold the door for us, which he did. He was about to let us in when he noticed that we were carrying posters, and asked us why we wanted to enter the building. We tdd him we wanted to go in and h mg the posters. At that time U.e Security officer declared that he would deny us entrance to the building. We showed him the posters, clearly demon· strating that they were not inflammatory in the least; they did not advocate banning pornography or pass judgment on the people who were viewing the movie. Rather, they were aimed at getting people to think about pornography and its implications. For example, the posters read: \Stop and think about what you just saw\ \Porn is not just sex • it is violence and degradation of human beings\ \Recognize Debbie's brain\ \It affects us all\. We made it clear to the Security officer that we had no intention of creating a distur- bance, riot, or confrontary situation • we wanted to hang the posters quietly _ilnd leave so that people could read them upon exiting the movie and reflect upon what they had seen .. We suggt>sted that the Security officer stay with us while we hung the posters and then escort us from the guilding. He again denied us entrance to the building, citing his reasons that the posters were unnecessary and that housekeeping would have to clean up the posters from the floor the next day. It is in· teresting to note that the officer stated that he would have let us in if we had said we were going in to see the movie. The Security officer stood firm in his decision not to let us enter, and told us if we wished to discuss if further we should go and speak with his supervisor, which we then did. The Security supervisor was very cordial as we explained the situation to him, and when we asked yet again why we were being prevented from entering the building his primary reasons were as follows: 1. The posters were pointless because the audience would have already seen the movie (even after we repeatedly stated that it was our intention to put up the posters at this time, minimizing the potential for a confrontary atmosphere). 2. They would do no good because they would just be ripped down, and we would just be creating extra work for housekeeping. 3. It is an academic building (even though the movie was shown and advertised in academic buildings). 4. The building had been ''secured\. At this point we had ex- pressed several times that we would gladly clean up the posters ourselves, and both Security officers had read our posters, both stating that their concern was not that we were presenting any sort of security risk. Why then did they continue to deny us access · to the building? Wheri we pressed the supervisor fu.rther for a reason he stated \I think the question here is what is your problem with this film? I think it's a fine film.\ Finally, the supervisor used his position of authority to end the discussion. He told us that we could not enter the building and that he did not need to give us any reasons for his decisions. Then he closed his door. We proceeded back to the Social Sciences Building where we hoped to put up our posters outside. When we arrived we were able t<J enter the building as the doors were opened by exiting audience members who were leaving before the end of the film. Despite having access to the building, we decided not to hang olll' posters inside as originally planned, because we felt it was important to respect Security's authority, whether their judgment was right or wrong; it had never been our intention to break any school policy. This series of events raises issues and question~ pertinent to the elltire college com- munity. Does Security have the right to decide when and how we express ourselves if there is no security ris'k to be considered? Should a Security officer's personal opinion on .the wor- thiness of an issue decide whether or- not that issue is raised? Why is a pornographic. film allowed to be shown on a college campus, while posters asking people to seriously think _about the content and im- plications of pornography are bamied? Upon meeting separately with Dean Marnrnola and Cliff Wood, Head of Security, we were assured that we had not br.oken any college policies in our at- tempt to hang the posters. They agreed that the outcome of the situation w-as unfort11nate and unnecessary. In order to avoid , the recurr:ence of a similar- Think About Smut By MELISSA MALKIN I don't object to smut if you don't object to smut. Actually, I think that censorship is a lot more disgusting than, say, close-ups of strange sexual acts. Now that we've established that I'm not a neanderthal moralist or even a 'Communist, let's talk about Debbie Does Dallas. People seemed to enjoy the movie; guys thought it was pretty studly to go see it, and the women who went felt like they were being pretty radical and daring. There is nothing wrong with innocent fun if it makes you happy and doesn't trash anybody's house. \Debbie Does\ was not en- tirely harmless,. however. It's not that it was offensive to any one group; · everyone in the movie was equally deficient in any kind of redeeming feature. It wasn't particularly violent, andthe fact that the entire cast was ugly isn't ·worth getting upset over. The harm was in what Debbie and her nubile friends were telling us. The audience at the eleven o'clock showing heard the message quite clearly, and answered back. \Stick it to her\ and \The b- loves it'~ were among the responses, and they were ac- curately calling the scene. The young lady in question had been pretty loose with her charms, but she had previously main· tained that she was a \good girl\ and that, if nothing else~ she wanted to save her virginity for marriage. Her partner didn't belive her, and we didn't · · \ belive her either, because nice girls don't resist that little. But once she gave in, she loved it. The message to the audience: women don't remy·know what they want, and don't know their own minds. What they really want is sex, no matter what they say, and because of this, a man shouldn't take \no\ for an answer. Another case in points: Debbie starts off taking a pretty strong stand with her boss. \Hey yo~, getcha grubby mitts offa me\. Her no's become less and less adamant, and she is willing to go farther and farther as she is plied with more money and more pleading. So we don't believe Debbie either; like all other women in this movie, she wants sex, but she doesq't know it till her boss gets her on the wrestling mats. Relax, Debbie, you love it. \Debbie Does Dallas\ doesn't have rape scenes; it shows women willingly Yielding despite their earlier stands on the matter. lt seems pretty silly to get all worked up over the dumb roles people play in a movie-after aU, the Jetsons do more to propagate stereotyped sex roles than Debbie does. And it is pretty silly, if the attitudes are ones that are going to stay ~n the screen, and not affect any of us. The thing is that the at- titudes that Debbie and her friends spelled out- for us do not stay on screen or even in the seats of SSOlO. Even in this enlightened decade, the opinion that \She never really means no\ still persists. So .go rent cheap sex to play on your VCR, laugh. at it, be entertained- whatever turns you on. But think about the messages you're getting, and don't take them away with you. Have Fun Continuedfrompageto· term. We anticipated a dif- which had 180 people in at- ference in o.ur social ives due to· tendance-think of squishing the NYS law which raised the that crowd in the old Cabaret drinking age. The real issue is room. There have been per- how most of us are dealing with formers at the Sellar, plays at this change. It seems to me that the Nott, sports events., lee- the easiest response is to tures, Coffeehouse, and some complain. Who's been getting great innovative.plans for the tlte brunt of all this com- upcoming Winterfest. But .plaining? You name it-Union maybe you're not into the all- administrators, food service, campus. scene . . . students, prof es so r s, Well, do you·like the people in organizations-the list goes on your dorm? Because the and on. I must admit there were variousdorm councils have also some silly changes around this been pretty busy brainstorming place (whi IS the Skellar for the good of all of us. So far, counter sawed in half?), but I there's been VCR nights, floor believe there has also been pizza, ski trips, Dutchman's some much-needed iin· Night and hot fudge sudae study provement in the last four breaks. And it's not even weeks. CLOSE to approaching Finals How can you say there's Week! nothing te-do? There have been . So take a look around, folks. more social activ~ties planned I'm sure that you can find in these last weeks than I SOMETHING to do. Besides all remember all last TERM. Take of this, you've still got frater- the various organizations vn nity and. sorority events to this campus- I guarantee that entertain you. And if you're still each has sponsored an event for bored,• why not go home for the the benefit of the student body weekend. At least then the rest quite recently. The . Film of us won't have to listen to you Committee even showed at least complain. one non-controversial movie each week. I attended a Cabaret incident both Dean Mammola and Cliff Wood suggested the following: in the event where someone wants to raise a potentially controversial issue, one may wish to notify either Dean Mammola or Security in advance, so that the Security Office has a sense of the nature and scope. of the activity planned and can take ap- propriate steps, if necessary, in preparing for it, thereby avoiding the need for a Security officer to make a quick and potentially uninformed decision. The intent of this suggestion is not to prohibit or censor anyone from raising such an issue, but in fact to facilitate it within the established policies and. Have some Fun- Cathy Markes procedures of the college. This suggestion does not redress the wrong done in this , Specific incident, but it may eliminate a recurrence of a similar incident. One can only hope tbat the notification of Security in an event like this will enable . Security to base their actiori solely on the potentiality of tfie sec!lri~y .risk, and not encourage mdtvrdual officers to estimate the wor- thines.s of an issue. • Respectfully, Abigail Lyons - Lora Nelson Melinda Phillips Sigrid Juncker In trag' seve weel been the 1 justi reqa worn hope aret desi, migt Som shou star~ tech• that· just foro not ~ Whe1 teclu Spl moor rede: as y< therE wec1 we sl a pro has l (app1 time and great Contii Re~ nor he Apart sancti me as more resou Ple In I blood diagn to gr1 our I Admi vesti~ Healt samp did recog diagn all erg yogur milk. can't thetir Tell · lmow The. guide! the D1 contai Consil the u Ameri of fa alcohc revise by- all comm the c drivin, the· u

CONCORDIENSIS, February 6; 1986 Pagel3 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY The Final Frontier By A • .J. HELFAND In the wake of the terrible tragedy which stole the lives of seven space pioneers this past week, many questions have been raised. For instance, are the risks of space exploration justified? Are the possitile reqards so :great that men and women should risk their lives in hopes of bettering mankind, or are their missions media events designed to hurl American might in the faces of our foes? Some scientists feel that we shouldn't be shooting for the stars just because we have the technology, while others feel that ·colonization of the moon is just aroundthe corner. Well, I for one, sat through Star Wars not wondering if, or .how, but when we'd have such technology. . . : It is unfortunate that great advances and achievements do not come cheaply. Many thousands of unsung heroes have sacrificed their lives to get us, mankind, to where we are. Has it been worth it? Did they die in vain or is the world a better place to live in because of their sacrifices? I personally ·am grateful to those that have fought for independence, equal rights, and the advancement of science. years and the whole thing could be ready in the mid-1900's. This may appear to be very im- pressive and as a grand un.- dertaking, but it's nothing compared to what the space industry has planned for the next several decades. Plans for stations capable of supporting ten thousand to ten million people have been developed. The space station is but a doorway; a doorway to the stars, but more immediately to the moon. For the first nation to build a lunar base is likely to have the most control over the moon's development. Secret meetings of NASA officials and leaders of the ,space industry have concluded that a lunar base could be operational in the year 2007. It's only a question of time, money, and politics. In the aftermath of last week's loss, we must not allow such gallant efforts to die in vain. May the memory of the Challenger and her crew live on to represent the spirit of great American exploration and achievement. Space stations, colonies, and· moon bases are being designed, redesigned. and debated about as you read. The technology is there. There's no question that we can do it, only whether or not we should. As you can imagine, a project such as a space station has high costs. It costs money (approximately eight billion), time (about lOyears of research and construction) and the greatest coat of all; lives. The development of space, even in the shOrt-run, holds many w~mderful things in store. In as few as ten years, a space station could be opened for \business\. Business would consist of research under conditions of weightlessness; a base from which spaGefraft could be assembled for deep- space exploration; as an ob- servatory of the universe and earth; as a facility for servicing satellites; and as a manufac- turing facility where 'new materials and medicine can be made under zero-gravity conditions. The design NASA is presently considering is almost four times as long as the shuttle and would take six shuttle trips to orbit the initial 50 tons of materials to puild it, Assembly will take approximately two It May Sound Fishy But • • • \Give From the Heart\ The American Red Cross will be conducting a blood drive February 12th, 13th, 14th in Fox Lounge from 11-5 p.m. Ac- cording to Marcia Szablewski, the director of blood services for the Schenectady Red Cross, their goal is to raise 245units ot ·blood. T.he pr.ocess of donating biO!i!d. takes only 10 1 . minutes. Two important points to keep in rtlind are that blood. donors are eligible every 8 weeks and there is no risk of contracting AIDS as the needles are sterile and used only once. If you have never donated blood before, try it. It's a \Heartwarming Experience.\ Apartheid Continued from page 11 Regrettably, no one can offer nor hope for an easy solution to Apartheid. Reagan's economic sanctions are only a token measure--South Africa has more than enough natural resources and industry to survive alone and by itself. The purpose of this letter is to correct certain statements made by Name Withheld and to provide a differing point of view, one which Name Withheld considers to be held by ''a very vocal minority.\ It is in this \minority\ where much of black South Afica's hope lies. Paul Fox By STEVE KONLIAN Today, more than ever, Americans are conscious of the way they look. The physical fitness craze has taken hold, as people grasp at illusions. of building a body out of a Soloflex: commercial. People are run- ning, bicycling, taking exercise classes, weightflifting.. as well as taking aerobics at home on T.V. Business lunches have moved from posh restaurants to the squaslr court at the \club\. However, often forgotten amidst this fitness craze is the significance of a proper diet in personal health. Recent research has uncovered some interesting facts about the role of fish in a person's diet. Suprisingly, this research was prompted by findings in the diet of the Eskimos. It has been 1- Through The Hawk's Eye I By BENJAMINHAFTEL Please. pass the teat In response to an alleged $350 blood· test that purported to diagnose a person's sensitivity to great-er than 187 substances{' our beloved Food and Drug Administration sent an in- vestigator to the offices of Bio Health Centers with a disguised sample of cow's blood. Not only did the company fail to recognize the blood as htunan, it diagnosed the cow as possessing allergies to cottage cheese, yogurt, and. yes. eyen cow's milk. Come· on fellows: you can't fool all of the people all of the time! Tell us something we don't know 'The second edition of dietary guidelines, released recently by the Department of Agriculture, contained very few surprises. Consistent with the 1980 report, the updated version warns Americans away from excesses of fat, sugar, sodium and alcohol in their diets. The revised report, not to be outdone by all the recent public service commissions, also warned of the detrimental effects of driving while intoxicated and the · use of vomiting to lose weight. So eat, drink, and be m~r~;y--but always in moderation. If life is a bunch of cherries, why do I always get the stones, Every year an estimated 300.,000 Americans develop wonderful specimens of the kidney stone family. Of these cases,around 70 percent will involve calcium-oxalate stones. New research conducted at the University of Chicago has possibly uncovered a partial answer to the question of what causes these painful stones. Kidney stones grow in pretty much the same way as rock candy. A small calcium-oxalate crystal, formed from a chemical reaction between excreted calcium and oxalic acid (a component of such foods as spinach, rhUbarb, celery and nuts), serves as the seed crystal around which a stone can develop in a high-sugar urine. Now there's something in- teresting to look forward to in our geriatric futures. Youknow,w.bat you can do with your suggestions. A· Connecticut public-health consultant has kindly warned the public of the potential hazards of kissing. Dr. Hans H. Heuman has cautioned that because social kissing can \'spread disease, it \carries with it some degree of risk and has become a social health hazard.\ The doctor has suggested as possible alternatives: the deep Japanese bow (my, how satisfying), the Latin embrace (I don't do the Rhumba), or juSt clicking your heels (what is this, Oz? Just who is this guy, and why is he bothering us?). We sincerely suggest that the doctor keep his oginions to himself and his pillow. Get this guy out of here A proposed bill in Missouri could make blowing your nose in a restaurant a $200 fine. Defending the proposed nose- blowing ban, State Represen- tative Fred Williams said: \If we can create laws that require people to wear seat belts and helmets in the name of public safety, then we can take care of the nose blowers in that name also.\ Just remember-this guy was elected to office! This writer gratefully acknowledges all the con- tributing sources that help make its printing possible.' found that Eskimos have a lower incidence of heart disease than do other populations. Their diet consists mostly of fish, sel:ll, and whale. In the fats of these animals is a substance called \omega-3 fatty acids\. These fatty· acids are structurally different from \omega-6 fatty acids\ which constitute a large part of the Westerner's diet. Studies have suggested that in populations which consume a lot of fish, the presence of the omega-3 fatty acids reduce the risk of developing heart disease, atheroscelerosis, thrombosis, rheumatoid ar- thritis, migrane headaches, multiple sclerosis, and other inflammatory diseases. Fats make up about 40 per- cent of the calories in the average U.S. diet, or about twice what is necessary. However, these fatty acids are mostly omega-6's. Our bodies require the presence of omega- 3's. For example, one of their specific functions is that high levels of omega-3 fatty acids decrease serwn cholesterol and low density lipo-proteins (LDL's), reducing the risk that How Smart Are You? fatty streaks form in arteries, thus reducing the risk of con- tracting atherosclerosis. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Service's recommends as many as four fish meals per week. But, the average American eats only one. Omega-3 fatty acid content has been measured in an assortment of fast foods, in- cluding fried fish sandwiches, fried chicken, . and pepperoni pizza. The level of the omega-3 fatty acids were extremely low in all of them. Surprisingly, though, the pizza had a slightly higher content than the fish sandwich. It has been proposed that the much needed omega-3's may be destroyed in the process of frying. Traditionally, Americans have been reared on \meat and potatoes\ and that fish is for lesser people. However, the evidence can't be discounted. Fish is good for the body, and especially the ahtlete's (bodybuilders' diets consist almost entirely of fish). Thus, fish--the \brain food\--has be(!ome \heart food\ also. If you can answer the following problems, any of them, send in your answers along with your name and box number. The genius who has a II the answers (ifthere is one) will be announced in the February 20, 1986 edition of Concordiensis. SPATIAL PROBLEMS For each of the next two problems four of the f1ve f1gures have some bas1c common feature that the hfth figure Jacks tnd1cate w1th the appropnale letter the f1gure that does not belong w1th the rest 25 (Al (8) (C) (0) (E) 26 (A) (B) (Cl (0) (E) ~@c@#@ 27. What 1.s the m1mmum number of , . square sheets of paper suff1c1ent to repro- . · duce the pattern below 1f the sheets- , unfolded. uncut, unmarked, and opaque- . : are placed flat on top of one another such · !hat each line shown corresponds to the edge of some squaremsofar as 11 1s not occluded by any overlapping square? ··~· ... ·~~ ·~ 28 If three mutually 1ntersect1ng rectan- gles are drawn on a flat surface. what IS !hi! max1mum number of bounded areas that can thereby be formed. r.ons1der1ng only the s1des of the rectang tes as bounds and count1ng only areas that are not further subd1v1ded? 32 If 27 1denhcat cub1caf chunks of cheese are piled together to form a cub1cat stack as depleted below. what 1s the max1mum number of these cheese chunks through wh1ch a mouse of neghg1ble s1ze could munch before ex1hng the stack assum1ng that the mouse always travels along the gnd of 27 srra1ght hnes that pass through the centers of the chunks parallel or perpend1cular to theu s1des always makes a 90\ turn at the center of each c-hunk and never enters any chunk more than once?

I ' Pag~ 14 SCHOLARSHiPS, FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS The Business and Professional Women's Folln- dation provides financial assistance ·for women as 11n .. dergraduates or as graduate students in a variety of areas- engineering studies, business studies, etc. The assistance may be in the form of scholarships, loans, or research grants. For more information · contact: BPS Foundation, Massachusetts Ave., Washington, DC or the financial Aid Becker HalL 2012 N.W., 20036 Office, The Golub Corp: (Price Chopper Supermarkets) an- nounces its annual scholarsllip competition for graduating high school and college students living and attending school within the Price Chopper marketing area. The Graduate or Professional School Scholarship is open to a graduating college senior OI\ college graduate who plans on attending graduate school as a fully mati\iculated student, and who has demonstrated scholastic ability. An amount up to $4,000 is awarded over two years to the recipient of the scholarship. Applications and supporting materials must be completed in full and submitted by March 7, 1986 for the 1987-87 academic year. For more information and applications, contact the Financial Aid Office. The Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York has announced that it will award two $650 scholarships foi\ the 1986-87 academic years~ The purpose behind the scholarships is to encourage college students interested in Business Administration and related fields to consider careers in the area of Purchasing. Additionally, each award in- cludes a one-year dues-free membership in the Purchasing Management Association. To be eligible, a student must be enrolled on a full-time basis; and be a junior or senior in 1986- 87. Applications and supporting materials must be received by the Association by May 15, 1986. For more information and Homecoming '86 All students interested in helping with Homecoming Weekend (October 10-12) are invited to attend the Homecoming Meeting on Tuesday, February 18 4:30p.m. Room 015, Social Sciences Building FREE PIZZA & SODA for a II who attend CONCORIJJENS/S, February 6, 1986 applications contact the Financial Aid Office, Becker Hall. Toll-free service helps students find aid. College fresh- men can call a toll-free number for help in finding finanCial aid. The munber, 1-800-AID..;FIND, is part of a national.scholarship matching service. called Student Aid Finders, based in Laconia, New Hampshire. This service has computer- access to over 4 billion dollars in student aid. \Practically all students can and do qualify for student aid regardless of academic achievement or financial need,\ said Paul Hemphill, president of Student Aid Finders. Hemphill's service guarantees to find any student a minimurn.Qf .5 ( a.nd .a.s, many as 25) student aid sources based on information the student provides on a data form. Then, the service searches through its computers anl matches the information to the specific student aid for which the student qualifies. Withia 3 to 4 weeks, the studeat receives a computer read-out of the matching sources-complete with names, addresses and eligibility requirements. \Plus adds Hemphill, \if we don't find a minimum of 5 sources, we refund the required fee of $39 and give the student whatever sources we do find absolutely free.\ CLUB NEWS The Biology Coub meeting is every Thursday. SS012, at 4:30 p.m. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, February 10 at 8 p.m. in 2nd floor Conference Room of Whitaker House. Please use rear door. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Luturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Ash Wednesday-February 12 .at 4:30p.m. in Memorial Chapel Rev. Hugh Nevin and Sr. Joan Vlaun will conduct an Ecumenical Prayer Service and distribute ashes. Hugh Allen Wilson will be the organ ac- companist. FRESH AN\ Visit to Shut-Ins-Any student -who would like to visit a Shut-In ()f St. John the Evangelist parish during the week of February 10 and bring a V ~lentine Greeting please contact Sr. Joan 370-6087 who will furnish you with a name, address and telephone nwnber. Peace Pastoral . Study (}t:()u:p-Wednesday, February n at 7:30 p.m. in St. John's S'ch ool Library, Professor Harry Murray, SociQlogy Department at Union will c()ntinue to lead a study and sicusssion of the Bishops' Peace Pastoral. AU welcome .. Killdergarten Aides-Anyone interested in assisting one hour a week at St. John's school pLease contact Tina Sciocchetti 'Wbo is coordinating this project. 27()-2275. Tutors for Math-Anyone interested in assisting Com- puter Math Students at St. John's T, Th, F please contact Li2 'Karazim 370-6511 who is coordinating 45-minute volunteer sessions. C~nfirmation-sunday, April 27 at 3 p.m. at St. John the Evangelist Church. Ahy Union student who has not been c()nfirmed and who wishes to receive the sacrament please contact Sr. Joan who will a1range classes to suit student scbedules. CLASSJHEDS Re-evaluation of Women's Formal Rush: will take place Wed., Feb. 19, at TBA. If you have opinions concerning the v~y Rush should or should not be run, please feel free to C()mment. Any comments or s11ggestions can be sent to the Fanhellenic Conference, Box 2~!i5. Infonn~tion concerning the nu1ny kinds of jobs available on Cape Cod can send a self- ~ddressed, stamped envelope to:. Cape Cod Summer Job Eureau, Box 594, Room 8, Earnstable, MA 02630. Terms Abroad Office is scbeduling a meeting for all st11dents interested in the York, England exchange program on 'I'uesday, February 11, at 4:30 in EU 117. Everyone is welcome. H!:Y F~£..51-W)fiN - yoO Lo<Jf:: 11 LITTLE:- N8?.VOU5 . I'JE.RVCJv~? N£RVDOS ?.1 \J')g( &E.UlUS£. 1: HAV-il I 1vJO MID/f.~S . -roMORr<.OvJ (} NEgvous?.J rt A! Spring Break '86 party in Fort Lauderdale trips include seven nig,hts accommodations, · all taxes and gratuities, poolside . party at Summers, daily happy hours, Hawaiian Tropic parties; round-trip jet and more!! · Student Travel Se}.'Vices 1-800-648-4875 Spring Break '86~Relax, in Nassau Bahamas. Trips include roundtrip jet, transfers, seven nights accommodations, par- ties, free cruise, all taxes and more!! $369 pp. complete Student Travel Services 1-800-648-4875 Listen to Fred and Mike Thursdays from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. on 89.7 F.M., WRUC for two . hours of MAXIMUM EN- TROPY. Professional Typing-Bus- iness teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time, 399-4656. Student off-campus job. Student volunteer needed to help with Public Relations press contacts and releases for Symposium to be held May 31, 1986. Hours flexible-Union St. location. · Contact: Sally Heller after 7 p.m., Capitol District Resolve, 372-5999. Word processing tyPing done for student and professors- Please contact 377-4.215. Professor D. Thurston will lead a 15-day tour. to. China from July 8-15. Arranged by Passages, Inc. in San Francisco the tour will visit Hong Kong, Gu~ngzhou, Builin, Shanghai, Xiah, and Beijing. The cost of the tour is$3,195 from New York and includes roundtrip airfare, hotels, meals while in China, and daily sightseeing ex- cursions. Professor Thurston will arrange pr.e-departure lectures and orientation meetings for the tour group. If you are interested ih joining the tour and would like more in\ format,ion,. please. contact Professor Thurston in Room SS 213b (Tel: 3.70-6222) or at his home (372-7673). The Film Committee presents: Feb. 7-9, Year of the Dragon (7:30, 10) Feb. 11, Slapshot (7:30, 10} Tickets are available at the Old Chapel for $1. · The Modern Language Department will show the third film in its German Film Series: Chinese Roulette ( 1976} by Rainer Werner. Fassbinder, on·e of the most dynamic talents of the new German cinema. The film is about Fassbinder's principle concerns'; relationships between husband and wife which have . deteriorated but · are upheld publicly as harmonious, and ·power, exercised here by a tyrannical teenage girl over her self-absorbed parents. The setting is a castle where the • couple their respective lovers, their daughter and her com- panion meet and, urged by the daughter, play a truth game which exposes and destroys the masks and rituals and ends in violence. Fassbinder explores new methods of cinema narrative. The film does not imitate life but.creates another reality through artifice and dazzling technique which become an end in themselves. Though the mood is cool and distant, movement exact · and sterile, the film is hypnotic. The film will be shown in German with English subtitles, Monday, February 10, at 3:30 in SS 016. Admission is free. 11111111111llllh 1111111 lllllllillltiiiiiiiJIIIIIII!UIIIIIIIIItiiiiiiJUIIIIIIUIIIIIIUtiiiiiiii!IIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIUIIIIIhlll Winterfest is coming!! February 14-16 Celebrate Valentine's Day with The Romantics!! IIIIIIIUIIIIIIIHJIIIIIIUIIIIIIItUIIIIII1JtllllllltiiiiiQ1JIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBIIIHIIIIIIIt1111111QtlllllllMJIIIIIII ·- . ' ( ALM DOWI\J I FR.£'5fiMAN ! \ - p go wl an Tc W4 ba co v bo lo~ FI .RE m: ne aU thl yo En 1 lov Th ( evE ya- goi cw yor pro thh BJC RI< Ke~ rea par Jef ( put Ho· wit Sk~ 14, Th~ hoc But Thi Ga1 To G hon Mul Bea Ligl u \All ple~; Dea Sl clos w bett Birt The c. c. com one To Frat Th allo' the abov true We 1

I} 1e e d '. .. y .·e )£ e s . ' d e d d a r e e I, l- e e e [} s a t r i 1 ' '· i l 1 1 Ill PERSONALS Fred, Be careful the next time you go speaker dancing. Who kn()ws what will happen. Hang in therE and feel better. · 3rd floor, Richm<>nd To my computer lifesaver, I owe you! You pick the day-- we'll go to lunch! Thanx. for bailing out hopeless with computers! With love, The one who always steals Hershey kisses Alchemy, Ramone, .Six, and the rest of the Zeebs, You guys are the best in my book. Through the highs and lows you've always been there. From \borrowing\ brother · Rerun, to tearful late nights en my wall. Without you guys I'd never have smvived through it all. Even though I don't get to the house as often as I shollld you're always in my heart. Emthialyn, Love, Sweet Lee Al!n Thanks for a great birthday! r love you guys! -D Thia, Our room is clean! (Okay- everybody?) Who is my date if ya-know-who won't go? You're going with CMPK. -D CW, Who am I going to screw you ·with? This is a major problem! IF you aren't go<>d this week, I'll get you good. BJQ RICK ZOU Kevin, Happy birthday! I'rn really glad you're here. Don't party too hard. Jeff, . Love, Julie Get psyched for Boston!! It'll put Chicago to shame. How did we ever survive without a BANANA phone??? Skating Dutchmen SENIORS- 14, 24, 1, 17, 27, 22, 15, 13, 20- Thanks for four years of great hockey! But you're not finished yet- This is YOUR weekend-Go Garnet GO!! ! JK TQ the Skating Dutchmen- Get psyched for playing at home this weekend. Beat the Mules and Tame the Polar Bears. Let the Dutchmen Power Light the Lampl ! JB Uhhh, Bob ... I'll takE \Annoying Parasites\ for 301», please. Dear Dr. Vin: Should I keep my eyes open or closed when I ~ss you???! We blew it .la&t week. But better late than never. Happy Birthday. We love you anyways. The two cockroaches. C.C.-Start looking! If worst comes to worst ... You can have one of the 17! · -Obsessed with being obsessed To the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity Inc., · The times we spent together allowed us to see precisely what the fraternity is about. It is about love, understanding, and true concern for 1>ne another. We love you. The Excellence Cowt CONCORDIENSJS, February 6, 1986 Page 15 Nan, I miss buying pretzels on the way to band, being surrounded by pillows, an Elva. Love your Siamese twin sister separated at birth Will- CONGRA 'l'ST (DG) I , miss you! WHERYL Sarah Shaw ... here's the per- sonal you have been waiting for- If there is one good thing that has come from David's absence (which I believe there is) , it is that I've gotten to know you much better & think that you are a super person and a great friend. Love, The Delta who really , did plan to send you a personal Ruth A-frequents Wonder Burger during the early mor- ning hours. R.A.-Why are you so paranoid? What do I know? -Chester PHI GAMMA DELTA FRATERNITY-Gamma Phi's want to THANK YOU for a Great party. Let'sdo it again!! GAMMA PHI BETAS-Get ready!!! The Pledge Retreat is coming soon. Two more days, before the full moon. Don't · forget, it starts way before noon. See you there or you'll be doomed!!!!!! Love in liKE, Brooke Sexy S, I can tell from the marks that your orthodontist ~d a good job. My neck may never be the same! Dwog \People are able to trust one another, knowing the exact degree of dishonesty they are entitled to expect.\ But, Jason, there is a limit! SPA LADY membership Two weeks of saunas, hottubs, Nautilus weightlifting, and aerobics. A dream come true! Call Lorie X6645 and make an offer. Dear SDT pledges: Keep those pledge pranks ON campus! Allison E, Love, The SDT Sisters Rumor has it it's your bir- thday today. If so, HAPPY BIRTHDAY. If not, I just made a fool of myself. HAPPY BIRTHDAY anyways. -Son1eoneinterested from the South Side Women's Network: Militant feminist groups offend me so I don't attend their meetings. MAD, CONGRATULATIONS on your expectant baby GIRL! Rita Col-Col, The Maidenform woman wants to know what kind of earrings you were wearing Sat. night!!! Kelly, Lisa, Danielle .... Pick up that toothbrush!!! ~--------------R DHC, Thanks for your .help, love and understanding this past week. Loveya -The Sexy Invalid Do bears do it best in the hall Julie, or upside down with their noses in milk crates? A.B., I hope you didn't' miss A.B. too much this weekend. A.B. Lover boy, Keep up the good work. You will be rewarded in the end. I understand and support all your efforts. I know you will succeed. Your number one fan, Angelface P.S. Happy Anniversary. I love you. ::.oile()e Preu Service ACROSS 1 Simian 4 Spanish for \yes\ 6 Degree II Goal 13 Angry·outburst 15 Conjunction 16 Musical drama 18 Dillseed 19 In favor of 21 Moslem prayer leacter 22 Chinese distance measure 23 Rigorous 26 Uncouth person 29 Escape 31 Break suddenly 33 Sun god 34 Babylonian deity 35Snake 38 Affirmative vote 39 Negative prefix 40 Part of \to be\ 41 Form 43 Quarrel 45 Female ruff 47Tell so Symbol for tanfalulll 52 Fuel 53 Priest's vestment 56 Semi-precious stone 58 Dress protector 60 Chaldean city 61 Iterate 63 Puzzle 65 Plague 66 Note of scale 67 Choose DOWN 1 Above and touching 2 Young salmon 3 Teutonic deity 4 Cuttlefish 5 Newspaper paragraphs 6 Endurance 7 Roman 101 &Spoken 'J Sudden fright 10 Dutch town 12 Proceed 14 Latin conjunction 17 Rodents • 20 Poem 24 Paper measure 25Lowisland 27 Solo 28Arrow 29 Fright 30 Crippled 32 Nuisance 36 Offspring 37 Appease 42 Let fall 44 Edible seed 46 Public storehouse 48 More unusual 49 By oneself _ 1 Name lor Athena 54 Protuberance 55 I.J~ruly child 56 Co.:junction 57 Fondle 59 Symbol for nickel 62 Equalily 64 Proceed Hale House Dining Room Wednesday, February l2, 1986 Hale House Dining Room will be closed during lunch for Founder's Day luncheon. We are sorry for the inconvience caused to our patrons. · 1 (Dt l.f ~#eve &. ~ 5h:A.V f.s tAp to . c>.Ar ~ iJYd 1f1e;-:e /_.o:;{L at it: a) -ll!e ~u a-~~ hii> ~ Pf3Y fiy h~ {~ v,o c;;t..e/ICY! -&Ni~.\' 1he skdtcw ~~-, r--~~a,~ ~ ·~ -~ ~ L~/ tip ~~ /-1 s- WL\' fY~/ ( r\

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, February 6, 1986 scan nsooez a ., . \\ SiT- DoWN btNNER Cl_ Fe!.bruAr-y 14, r'lBt.. \' Menu: fruit sections mixed greens w/vinagrette Choice of: New York Strip Steak or Veal Picatta double stuffed baked potatoes green beans almandine rolls and butter peach melba beverages ·~-- • • rftz - • • • 'ftn • ., HALE t-touSE. b1N11·.JG RooM 51::1' I 1 t·IG- P-: T 7 ~ >f 1/l(/q, JP14P r;sttrJliotrs Olf.ll! ~ ~k/ P:N{/L; bii C!tdf'/{ 1TltJ7card 'l!tJ7dE?> - :Z punc J.. an o11tLt\s - $' 5 Introducing •• o GBaker}'\' . TeaGRoom. CandY'· Gif~ (/)ottit ga!fo's SWEET TOOTH t614 canion Slrttl &lmt~N.Y. Gourihet Specialties 518 · 393 · 5592 A Country French Gourmet Food, Candy and Gift Store . .. Featuring: Snacks, A Full line of 10% discount Baked Goods, Natural90 soda Valentines Gifts for Gourmet Pizzas bir!~~~uyd~~~= for Sausage bread gift wrapping included Union College someone Special dips··· ... the list is endless Students New Games In The Skellar: Scrabble, Trivial Pursuit, M*A*S*H Trivia, Boggle, Sex Trivia, Candyland, Checkers, Monopoly and Wheel of Fortune Come in and play! All you need is your LD. to sign out the games! Fres:h.men Your new representative· to the Student Forum is: Charles McGavern 172 vote cast (33.4%) Late Night Bites All-Campus Jam Session -Eve.ry Sunday '9: 30-12:30 At Hale House Lower Lounge The Philosophy Forum · meets Tuesdays at 4:30 · p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. Topics for this week will include: ( ''Pulling the Plug\ and a discussion of · Bishop-. Hubbard's . presentation. All are Welcome Rouriq ue 169 Ja~· Stn·el Handmade Silver Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts, A Complete Line of Pipes & Smoking Accessories, Rock T's and Assorted Rock Group Items ( . r f -

.CONCORDIENSIS, Fehruory 6, 1986 .. Page 17 .ftiJ c\4~~~~Q/ fA - ........ HUG· A·· THON. I-.....___ HUG DON'T SLUG. Huggers Needed· .. -·~ . ·o~-\'fo ,. 1'7r· ' \!.J.. tent atttt s <rrieatters & ~ailurs 7llt!L NOW 2 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU Tiemann· s D'Ar jay's . 1714 UNION STREET 1621 UNION STREET PHONE 374-6647 PHOtlll: 393-0917 10% CASH&·CARRY DISCOUNTS Speda.lizing in Suede & leather Cleaning Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome ~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIniiiiiiiiiiiJIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ = UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS :: ,_ Show us your college IDs - = between 2 prn - 5 pm and receive =: - - - - - - Sirloin Steak Dinner- $5.95 ~ - - - - - - ===_ Spa.ghetti and Meatballs- $2.95 = parties of 4 or more will receive .. By Sigma Chi to help support the YWCA - Services to Families in Violence - Lend Us Your Arms. Feb. 7th to 14th. For more info. Call Eric x6190. = a FREE Pitcher of Coca-Cola = - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ;;;;;;;; Sunday Evening Mexican Night = ~ · Featuring: Nachoes, leaded Nachoes, - - sa lads, and Mexican skins- You want it, We've got it And we still DELIVER! ~===-- Triple loaded nachoes, Mexican = Half Price with your IDs! - - - - = = == == ~ MfiNHI\(f'hlfN = i:)t(~IH~~~~ - ~ 605 ~~~:mstreet illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli. WINTER FEST'86 Open Sunday through Thursday from l: 30 p.m. until 12 ·midnight. Friday_and Saturday until 12:30 a.m. Watch . for our new Hot Meatball Sub. A SCAVENGER HUNT!! Saturday, Feb. 15 2-4 p.m. DATE RAPE fS A PROBLEM: YOU SHOULD BECOME A WARE OF We will be showing two videos on date rape and facilitating a discussion. Our goal is to purchase one of them as part of a program to increase awareness- hopefu fly to be used by RA's, sororities, etc. 5 people to a team PRIZES!! )11 lll ~~ WE NEED YOUR OPINIONS, iDEAS AND S~PPORT Sign up: F eh. 10-14 in West or Student Activities office. QUESTIONS: Call Kim/Sheri x6936. and it's all happening TONIGHT, . February 6 at 8:00p.m. in HU019 sponsored by the Women's Network for further information contact Sigrid 382-8281 Campus Protestant Ministry Lenten ' 0 Communion Services Thursday Afternoons. 5:45 .. 6:15 Weeks 6 thru 10 Milano Lounge 1·f anyone would be interested in having a shuttle bus available to go into Albany ·or to shopping malls, please call Dean Mammola and let tlim know! f!ave any questions concerning t~e life at Union College? Com- · ments? Complaints?. Here~ your opportunity to have your voice heard! THE DEANS' DISCUSSION Featuring: Deans Massa, Mammola and Daniels LIVE! Sun., Feb. 9, 8-10 p.m. on 89.7-FM WRUC- Callin:x6154

I ' ,, Page 18 CONCORDIENSTS, February 6, 1986 Qlonrnrbi.ensis SPORT.S Track Sprints By A~DV HODGKIN The UnioB men's track team was well represented in the final places at this past weekend's OTR~A TC indoor track meet at Union. Though the meet ran at as much as two hours behind schedule, the Dutchmen _were still able to get five first places. Leading the way was senior Scott Remillard who got two firsts with honors in the 35 pound weight and the shot put. His throw of 16.35 meters was good enough for first in the 35 pound weight and a throw of 13.34 meters was good for first in the shot. Wayne Lacy collected a first and a second in the 50~meter hurdles and the pole vault respectively. His winning time in the hurdles was 7.3 seconds and his best jump in the vault was 13'0\. Rob Mohlar got an additional first place in a close race in the 500~meter event for the Dut,.. chmen. He came from behind to nip the second place finisher with a time of 1:08.3. Union's final first place was retrieved by Tony Holston in the triple jwnp with a jump of 38 7 6\. As a team, the Dutchmen placed second in the Distance Medley Relay with a time of 10:59.0 and a third in the 3200- meter relay with a time --of 8:30.3. Jim LeBrou placed third in the 800-meter race with a time of 2:04.6 and Todd Allen placed third in the 50-meter dash with a time of 6.1. Chris - O'Donnell also placed third in the 1500 meter event with a time of 4:07.5. WE WANT YOU TO CURL! GIVE IT A WHIRl AND CUR l·l·l . Mon.-Fri.: 33 : 0-5pm Open Curl 1· 9:30pm lntramurals CONTACT- Dan Fridgen 370·6134 WRUC89.7 presents UNION COLLEGE HOCKE.Y Friday· 7:00 vs. Colby Sat. 4:00 vs. Bowdoin l!lllllllllllllllllflll{lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIMMIIdllllllltNIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII The illoncorbitnnt.s Sports Staff welcomes any Letters or co.mments from our readers about articles appearing on our pages. Selected letters will be published. lllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllillllllllliltlillllltlllilllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllnlllllfnlillntJnllnntlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllliiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIP ' • ·, ~ ,'' \! ' •'\!'' i . Swimmers Come Up Short By LISA FREED The women's swim team travelled to Plattsburgh this_ past weekend, for another exciting meet. As only a few -of the team members attended the meet, the final outcome was a disappointing loss, however., many of the swilnnlers did quite well. Deb Dostie earned points for the team in the breaststroke, placing second, as well as taking a thir-d in the 100 freestyle. She was accompanied in the free by Lauri Adelstein, who took a fourth, and a third in the 50 free. Marty Phipps had a good meet, with a strong second in the backstroke,. and later combined with Betsy Boutwell, Lisa Freed,. and Deb Dostie for a first place finish in the closing relay. Betsy and Lisa each swam well, w:ith Betsy taking a second inthe.200 free, and a third in the 500 freestyle. Lisa placed first in . the 500, with her time qualifying for the State meet. Lisa also took a second in the Individual Medley. (Union's best sWimmer seemed to be someone named None, who swam the 1000 free, the 100 fly, as well as the diving events.) The swimmers met R.P.I. yesterday, and will· swim at Skidmore o~ Saturday. 1985-86 Union College Hockey Stats OVERALL Player 18 game totals GP GLS Ats Curt Cole . 18 10 9 Duane Joyce 18 ll 7 Tom Hodgins 18 6 10 John MacKenzie 17 4 11 Todd Flanigan 18 7 7 Gary Temush 18 4 12 Darren Stephens 17 2 9 Nelson Said 16 7 4 _Scott Cyr 14 8 3 Chris Huntington 15 5 5 Dave Appleby 18 3 7 Tom Brandell 18 1 4 Dave Weiss l7 0 5 Scott Manley 16 0 3 Mike Raymond 7 1 1 Keith Robertson 6 1 1 Mike Forhan 17 2 0 Bill Snow 9 0 1 Gavin Morton 9 1 0 Rich Preziot1i 1,5 0 1 Rick Rockett l 0 0 Scott Richardson 16 0 0 ·Jim Maclaughlin- 3 0 0 Goalies GMS S-V GA Toby O'Brien 3 83 9 Wayne McDougall 1'5 375 48 Colleen Dundon goes up for two. Union lost to R. P. J, 56-41. Special thanks to Union Sl D George Cuttita. \. . ·-:..·.,· -~· .. ~·\'. - Pts· - 19 18 16 15 14 16. ll 11 11 10 10 5 5 3 2 2 2 1 1 1 0 0 0 GAA 3.00 3.20 •• _, •••• ,_\':1 .... ttl a. >- .0 ~ .c: c. .... <11 c:: ,,_ ·3 <11 ~ (/) >- ·.O ~· .c: c. - 11!1 - v \1 a . .tl B 0 f<J le 8J .E 0 .c: 0. Cl ,; - Vl pre se1 Spt de rel doc illE prt I Sp( upc m~ allc anc cor l c Pi p, K Cc B1 E B; Jl M .M V; U1 01

- - er u, or 1g m ld 1e st 1e ~t. te 's )e 10 v. .) I. at - .... ·;: s... Ql ~ +- Ill ll. >- .0 ~ c: c. ' I \ .E 0 ..t: Q 0 V) . . CONCtJRVIENSIS, February 6, 1986 Page 19 thlete of the week ByDOUGtASLLOYD This week Union is blessed with two athletes of the Week winners~ The award ·winners are-basketball's Kurt· Fox and .track · · and field's Scott Remillard, who have been outstandiilg all season. Kurt Fox, a 6'5'' sophomore forward from Fairport, NY, leads the hoopsters in scoring and rebounds this season and Kurt Fox recorded a twenty~point showing... just four shy of his career-high ... in Union's big win over King's Point. The Sigma Chi brother ·has played a big role in Union's current hot streak in which the hoopsters have won seven out of their nine games. Saturqay's game was Fox's fifth twenty-point game this season. Kurt; a mechanical engineer, was ~he MVP of his Fairport High School team his senior year and won numerous awards. Scott Remillard, a senior electrical engineer major, is in his third· year as captain of the track team and stars in the hammer and discus throws and also in the shot put. This East Syracuse native qualified for the NCAA Indoor Meet for the third time in his career, this .12 year. Recently, the Phi Delta £ Theta brother won the 35 lb. wt. c. throw in two tri meets anel also 0 in the.J)TR-ATAC Meet. Along en with his 35 lb. wt. win in the OTR-ATAC meet, he also won the shot put with a 43'9¥4'' throw. Scott, a third time Dean's List member, attended East Syracuse .Minoa, where he set the school and state discus records. Concordiensis congratulates both. of these fine athletes on great seasons thus far, and contin.ued luck for the r~st of the year, ··scott Rem illa.rd · Drugs On the Field By PETE AGRICOLA . With all the drug problems in professional sports it would seem about time that the sporting world make definite decisions on the policies regarding drug use. This doesn't just include the uses of illegal drugs, but also those of prescription drugs. It seems hypocritical of the sporting establishment to frown upon the use of cocaine and marijuana, and continue to allow the usl;l.ge of painkillers and other ·drugs that are commonplace in mo·st professional sports at present. Not too long ago a linebacker from the Rams played the SuperBowl with a broken leg. lt was a well-lmown fact at the time that he played. with two shots of cortisone before . each . quarter. I find it hard to See the difference between these ac- tivities and the use of dfugs off the field except for the fact that some impartial body made one legal and the other ~legal. Many say that pro athletes must set an example for this country's youth. By using drugs athletes set .an exainple and, . furthermore, taint their all• American image My point is neither to condone . or to look down upon the use of drugs by athletes, but merely to see a policy that.is .cqJl!is~e[lt for all drugs. The movie, North Dallas Forty portrayed a realistic picture to many. To take drugs was all right if it was for the team, but in other situations it was considered taboo. It's hard to see why the athletes should have to draw the line on which is the right situation and which is the wrong. 1985-86 Union College Basketba II Statistics Player 71 game totals G FG FGA FG% FT% Reb PT AVG Kurt Fox, \ 17 119 230 51.1 67.2 127 277 16.3 Todd Lafayette 17 86 186 46.2 50.0 119 201 11.8 Rob Parent() '· 17 68 150 45.3 50.0 32 145 8.5 Neil Winawer 17 41 111 51.3 73.1 76 133 7.8 jom Beck· 17 55 116 47.4 41.7 49 115 6.8 Joe Romer 16 37 70 52.8 64.0 37 90 5,6 Doug Gregory 15 26 '52 50.0 81.8 51 79 5.3 Ken Levi.ne 17 31 63 49.2 I 73.9 39 79 4.6 Bruce Witherspoon 8 16 24 66.7 62.5 19 37 4.6 'Tim Diemoz 6 6 14 42.8 83.3 7 17 2.8 Steve DeBalso l1 13 33 39.3 80.0 13 30 2.7 Scott Gibbs • . 7 5 11 45.4 00.0 5 ~ 11 1.6 Tim Coleman 12 5. 14 35.7 75.0 10 13 1.1 Mike Miller* 4 1 6 16.7 50.0 6 4 1.0 Joe Hanley* 1 0 1 00.0 00.0 0 0 0.0 *No longer on the team . . Union's Tot i1 525 1081 48.6 64.0 630 1230 72.3 Opp. Totals 17 450 970 46.4 69.5 560 1117 65.7 Record: 1 0-7 Home (7-2) Away (2-5) Neutral (l-.0) 1965·86 Union College Women's Basketball Statistics 14 Game Totals Gms FG FGA FG% FT% Reb 0/D Pts Avg. Player Patty Richards 14 60 142 42.2 67.7 67 29/38 141 10.1 Kim.Mahgino 13 56 120 46.7 62.5 . 61 34/27 127 9.8 Colleen ou·ndon 14 56 159 35.2 48.7 62 21/41 131 9.3 Bee CLemente 14 45 96 46.9 50.0 38 12/26 106 7.6 Elaine Pic'k 14 '32 104 30.8 76.5 32 16/16 75 5.3 Barb Weissinger 14 30 91 32.9 36.4 55 25/30 72 5.1 Julie Gallo 14 25 79 31.6 29.4 21 . 11/10 55 3.9 Mi.cheUe 12 42.8 44 22/22 33 2.7 Van Pa1fan 15 43 34.9 . Margaret Eshoo 5 1 6 16.7 oo:o 2 111 2 0.4 Vah;~rie sarwin 5 0 6 QO.O 50.0 3 112 1 0.4 Union 14 320 846 37.8 51.7 385 172/213 745 .53.2 Opponents 14 304 750 40.3 59.6 336 162/174 738 52.7 ,.• . '\' ~ •-: '~; •• <· . ····~~ - ~ ._._,...,.....,.~ .... . . \ ~~~~~~--~------~~------~ Qlnncnrbitnsis SPORTS Charlie Slotnik ·' Looking at Sports Last week, The Boston Globe · r-eported that six members of the AFC Champion · New England Patriots were drug users. Of the six players that were ·mentioned in the Globe column, two had tested positively for marijuana at one point during the season, but were not frequent users of marijuana or cocaine. The other four players tested negatively for both drugs, and admitted their drug use was no longer a part of their lives. The presence of drugs in· professional sports is not new. Last summer, many baseball players testified against a Pittsburgh cocaine dealer, and in their testimony admitted to drug use . Athletes' acUvities, both on and off the field, are scrutinized by millions. Furthermore,. many athletes serve as role models for children, and therefore become villains when they do not live up to ex- pectations. . However, it is important to remember that athletes are human and are subject to stress and pressure just like everyone else. Also, drugs are not just a problem in sports; society .is plagued with drug users and abusers. Drugs ·are presented in all classes, races, and religions in America, and as a result, many employers must give employees drug tests. These drug tests serve as a deterrent, and often make people think twice before using them. If similar man- datory drug testing was in- stituted into professional sports, the drug problem might be reduced. This past weekend, an un- named source stated that 10 Dallas Cowboys were drug users. Furthermore, every team was subject to focusing on a drug investigation. If this occured, the problem would only seem to be magnified and the truth would be known. Sports are fun,. entertaining, and exciting. However, it is time to put sports into per- spective: if athletes were going to continually jeopardize their well-being with drug use, then something should be done. I believe the rdrug problem could be solved by the establish- ment of an Athletic Drug Testing Bureau regulated by the Federal Government. This drug--testing bureau would test all amateur athletes competing for the U.S. immediately. Then, they would negotiate with all the unions representing all professional sports, and ensure their compliance with the program. Currently, all professional tennis players must take ran- dom drug tests. If they can take drug tests, then the rest of the professional ahtletes in America can, as well. Puck Notes ... Nelson Said and Bill Snow have returned to the Dutchman Lineup. Mike Forhan and Mike Raymond are playing with the junior varisty ... This weekend's games versus Colby and Bowdoin are the final two home games of the regular season. Union has slipped to sixth place in the E'CAC Division II West Standings but it is doubtful they will fall any further since their record is far better than the seventh and eighth place teams ... Union JV 9-New Prep 8. 'GARNETSCOREBOARD ICE HOCKEY (9-9) Plattsburgh 5 MerrimackB MEN'S BASKETBALL (10-7) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL. (7-7) UNION3 UNION l Kings Point74 UNION 95 UNION62 Skidmore 51 RP156 Mkldlebury 41 UNION 44 UNION 41 Plattsburgh St. 58 Plattsburgh St. 72 MEN'S SWIMMING WOMEN'S SWIMMING DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK February 6 .. . February 12 Thursday 2/6 Women's Hoops at North Adams Friday 2/7 Varsity Hockey vs. Colby Men's Indoor Track CD Meet Home Saturday 2/8 Varsity Hockey vs. Bowdoin Men's Varsity Basketball at Norwich Women's Basketball at Albany Pharmacy Men's Swimming atHamiltori Women's Swimming at Skidmore Tuesday 2/11 Men's Varsity Basketball vs. Hartwic.k JV Hockey vs. Berkshire JV Basketball vs. Albany State Women's Swimming at St. Rose Wednesday 2/12 Women's Basketball \Is. Hartwick Men's Swimming vs. Hartwick Women's lndo.or Track- Union lnvy. TODAY! UNION 42 UNION 27 7:00 7:30 6:00 4:00 2:30 2:00 4:00 2:00 8:00 3:15 6:00 4:00 7:00 7:00 5:00 Men's Tennis Meeting AU interested ·participants meet at Field House ~t 4:30 in Coach ... -·-·--. -.-.. 6..a.909Jl~s Qffice

., C()Nl::ORDIENSIS, February 6, 1986. (ij \0 0 ~ +- (,/) >- .0 0 '0· .c. a. Hoopsters Beat Kings Point See Story Below Thursday, February 61 1986 / DutchmenSi By MARK VANBUREN The scoring spree was capped off by ·a Doug Gregory lay-up Before the Dutchmen and featured one free throw by hoopsters entered their game Ken Levine, and basket~ by Joe Saturday night against the Romer, Neil Winawer (2), Kurt United States Merchant Marine Fox (2), and Tom Beck (3). Two Academy ffom King's Point, consecutive jumpers from Tom th~ay knew that they would be in Beck, the second coming only 67 for trouble. While entering the seconds before halftime, game at only 11-7, the Mariners enabled Union to extend its lead had already beaten the fifth to 10 points, 41-31. Kurt Fox then ranked Division III team in the hit the last two baskets before nation and had five starters intermission, the last one with averaging more than 10 points just 0:04 showing on the clock, per game (two of these starters giving the Dutchmen their were 6'7\ as well). largest advantage of the first For the opening 3:49 of the period, 12 points, 45-33. .· game, it looked as though the Six straight Mariners points Union squad was in for a long to start the second half cut the night. Union lead to six, 45-39. Doug TheU.S.M.M.Adominatedhoth Gregory's three-point play ran ends of the floor and built up a the Dutchmen advantage to 52- 12-2 lead as John Hillin con- 43 with 15:12 remaining in the nected from 17 feet out. game. From this point the However, after customarily U.S.M.M.A. could get no closer getting off to a slow start, the than seven points (56-49 on a Dutchmen .battled back to score basket by Derrick Shirley with 19 of the game's next 23 points, ·11:31 left), as the Dutchmen including this spurt's last 11 i,n a cruised to an easy 95-74 victory. row, to build up a 5-point ad- In all, 10 Dutchmen reached the vantage of their own, 2:-16, with scoring column, with six hitting 9:48left to play in the first half. for double figures. Kurt Fox led Union wins over Williams ... Skaters Out of Rut By JOHN BRUCE O'Brien made 15 more saves in and CHARLIE SLOTNIK the third period, despite The Union College Skating allowing six goals, to finish the Dutchmen have fallen on hard contest with 42 saves as his times lately, as they lost their record fell to 2-1. With a little second successive game to the better luck the outcome might Merrimack Warriors by a score have been different, for the of 8-1. The loss dropped the Dutchmen hit the goalpost three Union with 20 points, followed by Tom Beck with 14, Todd Lafayette and Neil Winawer with 12 each and Doug Gregory and Tim Diemoz with 10 each. Derrick Shirley had a game- high 23 points for the Mariners. Exciting Moments The game had its share of exciting moments other than the fact that the Dutchmen were victorious. Union's Todd Lafayette threw down a couple of dunks (one in each half) on fast breaks, much to the delight of the highly partisan Union crowd. As well, Mariner . .!£ c: 0 E Q). L 1- ::J 0 _J >- .0 0 - 0 ..c a. Marines coach, Tom Gleeson, was ejected from the contest with three technical fouls being assessed to .him. Gleeson, who had been nagging and yelling at the officials constaptly since the opening tip-off, was given the heav~ho with well over seven minutes still to play. DUTCHMEN NOTES .... Union has currently ·won two games in a row and eight of . their last 10, to improve their record to 10-!7 ·:· .. In the friendly confines of Memorial Fieldhouse, the Dutchmen are 7•2 .... Kurt Fox is leading Union in both scoring (16.3 ppg) and ' Hockey Standings rebounding {7 .5rpg) .. Todd Lafayette is following Fox in both departments -11.8 ppg and 7.0 rpg. Guard Tom Beck is scoring 7 ppg, while handing out 5.5 assists per game.... The Dutchmen are outscoring their opponents by a margin of 6.6 ppg, 72.3 to 65.7 for the season and by 15.1 at home, 80.8 to 65.7 .... Union faces one of its more important and toUgher teamsto,date on Wed., Feb. 5 at Albany State. The Capital District rival school beat the Putchmen, 81-76, to claim the championship game of the Capital District · Tournament e~rlier in the- season. Q) \0 0 ~ - (,/) >- .a- 0 0 .c a. Dutchmen's overall record to 9- times and the crossbar once in 9, including a 2-7 record away the second period. from Achilles Rink. Union's Tuesday night, Union ended lone goal was s.cored by their two game losing streak sophomore Scott Cyr just 47 with a 4-1 win over Williams. seconds into the third period. Union got off to an early lead Senior defenseman John when Gary Temush notched his Mackenzie assisted on Cyr's goal. Duane Joyce and Nelson goal, whicq made the score 2-l. Said assisted. In thee second However, 15 seconds later, period Cllrt Cole and Nelson Merrimack increased their lead Said added unassisted goals. E.C.A.C. Division II West to 3-1, and it was all downhill Williams came back to score a from there for the Dutchmen. goal to make the score 3-1. But The Warriors scored five more the Ephmen could not generate goals in the third period, as the much pressure on Wayne rout was on. Sophomore goalie McDougall who only had to stop Toby O'Brien played well in the 13 shots. ~ Cole .g?t his 2nd first two periods; as he stopped goal of t~e _ni.~ht to.JmlSh o~~~-- 27· of 29 Merri.n:rack sl1otst··· --scoriri~ Iif'tfie\irrd :J)el'lOd.>:.. .. ,- :·: ·· . . , . , Team RIT Elmira Canisius Plattsburgh St. Oswego UNION Geneseo Potsdam Hamilton Buffalo Cortland Hobart Brockport St. w 19 16 13 12 13 9 8 8 3 4 3 3 1 L T 2 0 2 . 2 4 1 . 5 1 7 0 5 0 10 1 11 1 7 l 13 0 12 0 13 0 14 0 GF GA PCT. Overail 169 60 905 23·4-0 116 36 889 18·2-0 101 79 750 18-4-2 146 .60 694 14-9-1 99 70 650 .13·7-0 60 38 . 642 9·9-0 76 92 447 12·13·1 99 94 425 8·12-1 43 47 318 5·9·1 57 96 235 5-16-0 r- 43 104 200 5-14·0 64 122 187 4-11·0 35 140 066 1·19·0 ' ... ,. .. . ' ,. •.· \' \ /'•. - • .. tJ E c A 'h n g. tl h 1< li ~ d tl p a g ( tl c v f, n e d } r ( p il b d u ' c t ' I f } I l E t ~

CONCORDIEIVSIS, Fehruary6, 1986 - a; \0 0 ::) - <f) > .0 0 - 0 .c 0. C!J +- c: 0 E Q) .... 1- :::l 0 ..J >- .0 0 0 .r::. Q_ Hoopsters Beat Kings Point See Story Below Track Takes Five 1st Places See Story Page 18 Thursday~ February 6, 1986 DutchmenSi By MARK VANBUREN Before the Dutchmen hoopsters entered their game Saturday night against the United States Merchant Marine Academy from King's Point, thP.y knew that they would be in for trouble. While entering the game at only 11-7, the Mariners had already beaten the fifth ranked Division III team in the nation and had five starters averaging more than 10 points per game (two of these starters were 6'7\ as well). For the opening 3:49 of the game, it looked as though the Union squad was in for a long night. The U .S.M. M.A dominated both ends of the floor and built up a 12-2 lead as John Hillin con- nected from 17 feet out. However, after customarily getting off to a slow start, the Dutchmen battled back to score 19 of the game's next 23 points, including this spurt's last 11 in a row, to build up a 5-point ad- vantage of their own, 2>16, with 9:481eft to play in the first J\lalf. The scoring spree was capped off by a Doug Gregory lay-up and featured one free throw by Ken Levine, and baskets by Joe Romer, Neil Winawer (2), Kurt Fox (2), and Tom Beck (3). Two consecutive jumpers from Tom Beck, the second coming only 67 seconds before halftime, enabled Union to extend its lead to 10 points, 41-31. Kurt Fox then hit the last two baskets before intermission, the last one with just 0:04 showing on the clock, giving the Dutchmen their largest advantage of the first period, 12 points, 45-33. Six straight Mariners points to start the second half cut the Union lead to six, 45-39. Doug Gregory's three-point play ran the Dutchmen advantage to 52- 43 with 15:12 remaining in the game. From this point the U.S.M.M.A. could get no closer than seven points ( 56-49 on a basket by Derrick Shirley with ·n : 31 left), as the Dutchmen cruised to an easy 95-74 victory. In all, 10 Dutchmen reached the scoring column, with six hitting for double figures. Kurt Fox led Union wins over Williams ... Skaters Out of Rut By JOHN BRUCE and CHARLIE SLOTNIK Union with :20 points, followed by Tom Beck with 14, Todd Lafayette and Neil Winawer with 12 each and Doug Gregory and Tim Diemoz with 10 each. Derrick Shirley had a game- high 23 points for the Mariners. Exciting Moments The game had its share of exciting moments other than the fact that the Dutchmen were victorious. Union's Todd Lafayette threw down a couple of dunks (one in each half) on fast breaks, much to the delight of the highly partisan Union crowd. As well, Mariner Marines coach, Tom Gleeson, was ejected from the contest with three technical fouls being assessed to him. Gleeson, who had been nagging and yelling at the officials constantly since the opening tip-off, was given the heave-ho with well over seven minutes still to play. DUTCHMEN NOTES .... Union has currently won two games in a row and eight of their last 10, to improve their record to lG-7 .... In the friendly confines of Memorial Fieldhouse, the Dutchmen are 7-2 .... Kurt Fox is leading Union in both scoring (16.3 ppg) and Hockey Standings rebounding (7.5rpg). Todd Lafayette is following Fox in both departments -11.8 ppg and 7.0 rpg. Guard Tom Beck is scoring 7 ppg, while handing out 5.5 assists per game .... The Dutchmen are outscoring their opponents by a margin of 6.6 ppg, 72.3 to 65.7 for the season and by 15.1 at home, 80.8 to 65.7 .... Union faces one of its more important and tougher teams to date on Wed., Feb. 5 at Albany State. The Capital District rival school beat the Dutchmen, 81-76, to claim the championship game of the Capital District Tournament earlier in the season. The Union College Skating Dutchmen have fallen on hard times lately, as they lost their second successive game to the Merrimack Warriors by a score of 8-1. The loss dropped the Dutchmen's overall record to 9- 9, including a 2-7 record away from Achilles Rink. Union's lone goal was scored by sophomore Scott Cyr just 47 seconds into the third period. Senior defenseman John Mackenzie assisted on Cyr's goal, whic:Q made the score 2-1. However, 15 seconds later, Merrimack increased their lead to 3-1, and it was all downhill from there for the Dutchmen. The Warriors scored five more goals in the third period, as the rout was on. Sophomore goalie Toby O'Brien played well in the first two periods, as he stopped 27 of 29 Merrimack shots; O'Brien made 15 more saves in the third period, despite allowing six goals, to finish the contest with 42 saves as his record fell to 2-1. With a little better luck the outcome might have been different, for the Dutchmen hit the goalpost three times and the crossbar once in the second period. Tuesday night, Union ended their two game losing streak with a 4-1 win over Williams. Union got off to an early lead when Gary Temush notched his goal. Duane Joyce and Nelson Said assisted. In thee second period Curt Cole and Nelson Said added unassisted goals. E.C.A.C. Division II West Williams came back to score a goal to make the score 3-1. But the Ephmen could not generate much pressure on Wayne McDougall who only had to stop 13 shots. Curt Cole got his 2nd goal of the night to finish off the scoring irt the·3l'd' periad. Team RIT Elmira Canisius Plattsburgh St. Oswego UNION Geneseo Potsdam Hamilton Buffalo Cortland Hobart Brockport St. w 19 16 13 12 13 9 8 8 3 4 3 3 1 L T 2 0 2 2 4 1 5 1 7 0 5 0 10 1 11 1 7 1 13 0 12 0 13 0 14 0 GF GA PCT. Overall 169 60 905 23·4-0 116 36 889 18-2-0 101 79 750 18-4-2 146 60 694 14-9-1 99 70 650 13-7-0 60 38 642 9-9-0 76 92 447 12-13-1 99 94 425 8-12-1 43 47 318 5-9-1 57 96 235 5-16-0 43 104 200 5-14-0 64 122 187 4-17-0 35 140 066 1-19-0 - Q) '0 0 ::> .._ V) >- .0 0 ..... 0 .c 0.

. '• CXV, No.-13 February 13, 1986 Cavoli Honored By NICK PICCUULLO Richard Cavoli, a junior biochemistry major from Marlboro, N.Y., was honored by President Reagan at the annual State of the Union address on February 4. He and three others., seated with Mrs. Reagan on the floor of Congress, were cited as ''heroes of the heart\ by the President in front of a nationwide television audience. Spirit of Discovery \We see the dream coming true in the spirit of discovery of Richard Cavoli,\ Reagan told Congress in referring to the American dream. \All his life · he has been enthralled by the mysteries of medi~ine and science. Richard, we know that the experiment you began in high school was launched and lost last week. Yet, your dream lives. And as long as it is real, work of noble note will yet be done, work that could reduce the harmful effect of X -rays on patients, and enable ~sttonomers to view the golden gateways of the farthest stat's.'' Cavoli's experiment, intended to form larger, more perfect crystals m a weightless en- vironment, was on board the ill- fated shuttle Challenger mission. The results of the experiment could lead to the development of more sensitive X-ray film. \It's really nice to be recognized, it's a great honor,\ Cavoli later told reporters at a press conference. \I had no indication I was screened beforehand. There was no in- dication at all how they chose us.\ Secrecy Maintained. Those who know Cavoli and watched the State of the Union address were probably stunned to see him thet·e being honored. \I was speechless for five minutes,\ remarked one. close friend. The only people who knew in advance were Cavoli's parents and brother. Cavoli, himself, would have only had an eight~hour advance notice had the address been held on Jan. 28, as was scheduled before the shuttle disaster. It's post- ponement caused a need to maintain secrecy for one week. ''There was a big concern by the President that he be the first one to let everyone know who we were. It was real hard ex- plaining where I was. I told some 'white lies' to throw people off track.\ The road to Washington began while Cavoli was waiting for a flight in the Orlando, Florida airport on Jan. 25. He was paged and told that the White House had called. Bewildered, Cavoli returned the call and a meeting with President Reagan for Jan. 28 was arranged. Cavoli h81 been in Florida to watch the 3huttle launchj but with his grandR mother ill and continuer delays in launching, Cavoli ded1ied to return horne. He and the three others to be honored were at the White House waiting to meet the President when the countdown to launching Challenger reached liftoff. Cavoli watched the shuttle with his experiment on board take off and ultimately· explode killing seven astronauts. When he later met with Reagan \the tone was very sad. The President was very sad,\ he reflected. Reagan invited Cavoli and the three others to sit with the First Lady during the annual address to Congress. \We were very surprised,\ Cavoli said. \We were allreal thrilled and happy about it.\ The address which was to take place that evening had to be postponed. The site of our \new\ athletic facility. Forum Probes YMCA Cavoli will now begin preparations to apply to medical schools and begin reconstructing his experiment once NASA schedules it for a future mission. Cavoli has even speculated that he may con- sider joining the space program once· completing his ed~cation. By DAVID MARIN Last Friday, february 7, Student Forum members Tod Dimmick and Maureen Coleman visited the State Street YMCA facilities to look into the possibility that they were un- Satisfaetory. They concluded D . . . ·-.· , __ . R ... ·. ·. ·· .. ·-· ... ···---·-·:..~ eons-\ esponu ... WRUC hosts discussion By LINDA RAFFAELE This term has seen many . students quite upset with the Administration. Recently, the pages of Concordiensis have been filled with complaints of large classes, the decision to make the campus dry, rising tUition ·costs, the poor shoveling job after the last few snowstorms, etc. In response to this, WRUC held a Dean's Discussion on Sunday night from 8sl0 p.m. to give students a chance to put their questions directly to the administrators. The live, over- the-air discussion, in which Deans Mamrnola~ Massa, and Daniels participated, also gave the Administration a chance to respond to students' recent criticism. For those who were unable to listen in on Sunday night, this article will review the primary points of the discussion. The first question put to the deans had to do with class size. If Union has a 13:1 faculty ratio, why does it seem that so many classes have more than 13 students? Dean Daniels responded to this question by pointing out that \a ratio does not guarantee a class size.\ The size of a class depends on how students choose their classes. He recogniZes that a number of classes that have not been as large in the past are quite large now. He believes that this is a reflection of changing student preferences. He stated that the College is monitoring depart• ments to try to understand these changes sothat tbey will be able· to deal better with them in the future. The next question concerned the almost 8 percent increase in tuition for the coming year. What is going into these ~ost increases? Dean Mammola answered that most of this increase has to do with ordinary inflationary expenses. He also pointed out that this increase is \not out of line with other comparable colleges.\ Dean Massa added that the school is involved in many projects now (i.e. the new student center and Alumni Gym) and \extra projects all cost money.\ Alcohol on Campus Another question raised was the issue of alcohol on campus. A caller wanted to know why the school gave up its liquor license. Dean Mammola explained that the school did not actually give up its liquor license. It was decided to stop the sale of alcohol on campus following the raise in the drinking age to 21 on December 1 because only about 25 percent of the students would be eligible to drink legally. Furthermore, \Union's liability policy is very much connected with the sale of alcohol.\ Dean Mammola · also reminded students that although alcohol is no longer sold on campus, the College does not prohibit the possession or use of alcohol on campus. Another caller wanted to know why the College doesn't build more housing. Dean Massa agreed. with the students that there is \Wiquestionably a need for it.\ Dean Mammola explained that currently there is a com- mittee looking into alternatives for bUilding more housing. They hope to come up with something by the end of the term. The Girling Center is one possibility now that it is no longer for sale. A question came up con- cerning a proposal originally introduced by Dean Daniels and recently passed by the Continued on page 2 their visit, convinced that that was not the case. Dimmick explain.ed the in\Testigation, \Ther~ was general Forum consensus that someone should go doWQ and check it out.\ After touring the building, he com- mented, \The reason we were going down was because some people had said the facilities . were inadequate. -We basically found that to be false.\ Jamie MacFarland, Physical Director of the YMCA ·offered to give the two Forum representatives a tour of the facility. MacFarland, who has been with the YMCA for six years now, showed them the pool, racquetball, squash, and handball courts, the two gyms, running track, and the weight room, as well as the locker rooms and other add-ons such as the Nautilus room and Health ' . ' ' Club facilities which can be added to the standard college membership for an added fee. MacFarland explained that the membership under which all Union students are covered is equivalent to a full college membership and therefore students interested in upgrading their membership to include Nautilus or the Health Clu:b would be credited the normal college membership dues. As such, the Nautilus would cost only $100 per year for a Union student. Students in- terested in using the normal weight facilities must pay a 25 dollar fee as an insurance· against theft and destruction, a reality MacFarland says they must unfortunately recognize. He had two tips for students who plan to use the facilities. He Continued on page z .:.., .. ., . '- (!) ..0 ::> '- 0 (j) > ro Cl > ..0 ;? 0 .c. c. Order in a chaotic world. Final Exam Schedule Page 12 & 13 Indian Music Reviewed Page 17

CXV, No. 13 February 13, 1986 Cavoli Honored By NICK PICCIRilLO Hichard Cavoli, a junior biochemistry major from Marlboro, N.Y., was honored by President Reagan at the annual State of the Union address en February 4. He and three others, seated with Mrs. Reagan on the floor of Congress, were cited as \heroes of the heart\ by the President in front of a nationwide television audience. Spirit of Discovery \We see the dream coming true in the spirit of discovery of Richard Cavoli,\ Reagan told Congress in referring to the American dream. \All his life he has been enthralled by the mysteries of medicine and science. Richard, we know that the experiment you began in high school was launched and lost last week. Yet, your dream lives. And as long as it is real, work of noble note will yet be done, work that could reduce the harmful effect of X-rays on patients, and enable astronomers to view the golden gateways of the farthest stars.'' Cavoli's experiment, intended to form larger, more perfect crystals in a weightless en- vironment, was on board the ill- fated shuttle Challenger mission. The results of the experiment could lead to the development of more sensitive X-ray film. \It's really nice to be recognized, it's a great honor,\ Cavoli later told reporters at a press conference. \I had no indication I was screened beforehand. There was no in- dication at all how they chose us.\ Secrecy Maintained Those who know Cavoli and watched the State of the Union address were probably stunned to see him there being honored. \I was speechless for five minutes,\ remarked one close friend. The only people who knew in advance were Cavoli's parents and brother. Cavoli, himself, would have only had an eight-hour advance notice had the address been held on Jan. 28, as was scheduled before the shuttle disaster. It's post- ponement caused a need to maintain secrecy for one week. \There was a big concern by the President that he be the first one to let everyone know who we were. It was real hard ex- plaining where I was. I told some 'white lies' to throw people off track.\ The road to Washington began while Cavoli was waiting for a flight in the Orlando, Florida airport on Jan. 25. He was paged and told that the White House had called. Bewildered, Cavoli returned the call and a meeting with President Reagan for Jan. 28 was arranged. Cavoli he: 1 been in Florida to watch the 3huttle launch, but with his grand· mother ill and continuer .ielays in launching, Cavoli de1i1ied to return home. He and the three others to be honored werr at the White House waiting to meet the President when the countdown to launching Challenger reached liftoff. Cavoli watched the shuttle with his experiment on board take off and ultimately explode killing seven astronauts. When he later met with Reagan \the tone was very sad. The President was very sad,\ he reflected. _J· ,_ <ll .0 :;) ,_ .. - -- 0 <ll > rc 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c: 0. Reagan invited Cavoli and the three others to sit with the First Lady during the annual address to Congress. \We were very surprised,\ Cavoli said. \We were all real thrilled and happy about it.\ The address which was to take place that evening had to be postponed. The site of our \new\ athletic faci I ity. Forum Probes YMCA Cavoli will now begin preparations to apply to medical schools and begin reconstructing his experiment once NASA schedules it for a future mission. Cavoli has even speculated that he may con- sider joining the space program once completing his education. By DAVID MARIN Last Friday, February 7, Student Forum members Tod Dimmick and Maureen Coleman visited the State Street YMCA facilities to look into the possibility that they were un- satisfactory. They concluded Deans Respond ... WRUC hosts discussion By LINDA RAFFAELE This term has seen many . students quite upset with the Administration. Recently, the pages of Concordiensis have been filled with complaints of large classes, the decision to make the campus dry, rising tuition ·costs, the poor shoveling job after the last few snowstorms, etc. In response to this, WRUC held a Dean's Discussion on Sunday night from 3-10 p.m. to give students a chance to put their questions directly to the administrators. The live, over- the-air discussion, in which Deans Mammola, Massa, and Daniels participated, also gave the Administration a chance to respond to students' recent criticism. For those who were unable to listen in on Sunday night, this article will review the primary points of the discussion. The first question put to the deans had to do with class size. If Union has a 13:1 faculty ratio, why does it seem that so many classes have more than 13 students'? Dean Daniels responded to this question by pointing out that \a ratio does not guarantee a class size.\ The size of a class depends on how students choose their classes. He recognizes that a nwnber of classes that have not been as large in the past are quite large now. He believes that this is a reflection of changing student preferences. He stated that the College is monitoring depart- ments to try to understand these changes so that they will be able to deal better with them in the future. The next question concerned the almost 8 percent increase in tuition for the coming year. What is going into these cost increases? Dean Mammola answered that most of this increase has to do with ordinary inflationary expenses. He also pointed out that this increase is \not out of line with other comparable colleges.\ Dean Massa added that the school is involved in many projects now (i.e. the new student center and Alumni Gym) and \extra projects all cost money.\ Alcohol on Campus Another question raised was the issue of alcohol on campus. A caller wanted to know why the school gave up its liquor license. Dean Mammola explained that the school did not actually give up its liquor license. It was decided to stop the sale of alcohol on campus following the raise in the drinking age to 21 on December 1 because only about 25 percent of the students would be eligible to drink legally. Furthermore, \Union's liability policy is very much connected with the sale of alcohol.\ Dean Mammola also reminded students that although alcohol is no longer sold on campus, the College does not prohibit the possession or use of alcohol on campus. Another caller wanted to know why the College doesn't build more housing. Dean Massa agreed with the students that there is \unquestionably a need for it.\ Dean Mammola explained that currently there is a com- mittee looking into alternatives for building more housing. They hope to come up with something by the end of the term. The Girling Center is one possibility now that it is no longer for sale. A question came up con- cerning a proposal originally introduced by Dean Daniels and recently passed by the Continued on page 2 their visit, convinced that that was not the case. Dimmick: explained the inVestigation, \There was general Forum consensus that someone should go down and check it out.\ After touring the building, he com- mented, \The reason we were going down was because some people had said the facilities were inadequate. We basically found that to be false.\ Club facilities which can be added to the standard college membership for an added fee. MacFarland explained that the membership under which all Unien students are covered is equivalent to a full college membership and therefore students interested in upgrading their membership to include Nautilus or the Health Club would be credited the normal college membership dues. As such, the Nautilus would cost only $100 per year for a Union student. Students in- terested in using the normal weight facilities must pay a 25 dollar fee as an insurance against theft and destruction, a reality MacFarland says they must unfortunately recognize. He had two tips for students who plan to use the facilities. He Jamie MacFarland, Physical Director of the YMCA offered to give the two Forum representatives a tour of the facility. MacFarland, who has been with the YMCA for six years now, showed them the pool, racquetball, squash, and handball courts, the two gyms, running track, and the weight room, as well as the locker room:; and other add-ons such as the Nautilus room and Health Continued on page 2 Order in a chaotic world. Final Exam Schedule Page 12 & 13 Indian Music Reviewed Page 17 ,_ Q) .0 :;) ,_ (!) Q) > Ill 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 .c 0.

Page2 CONCORDIENSJS, February 13, 1986 ... <ll .c :::l 1.. ~ <ll > Ill Q >. .c .E 0 J:: c. Jane Cooper, a contemporary poet and author paid a visit to Union this past Monday and shared her work. Poet Looks at Women's Work By MARK GAGNON Jane Cooper, award winning poet and author of four books of poetry, her most recent, Scaffolding, spoke Monday at Union. She began in the af- ternoon with a talk entitled \Writing About Women\ and concluded her visit that evening with a reading from her work. In writing about women, Cooper described three topics in which she has concentrated: daily lives of women, physical being, and women writing about other women. Cooper described the daily lives of women as work, relationships, childbearing, etc. which are, she says, among \the best kept literary secrets.\ Cooper began writing about the daily lives of women as a girl growing up during World War II. She felt that womens' lives were seen as somewhat \flat not nearly as exciting as mens'. However, Cooper believed that women did have a story and she attempted to tell it in a book of eighty poe:ms about the war from a woman's point of view. Cooper depicted women as witnesses, sufferers, and passive victims of the war. She never published these poems because she was shy, lacked confidence, and feared that the people of the time would not understand them. \Bodily Knowledge\ physical being. Through biogr~phies and histories, Cooper feels. Women can write about wmmen. Cooper noted that it is different when women write about women than when men write about men. When a man writes about another man, there often exists an \anxiety of in- fluence\; the author feels he must somehow prove himself in comparison to the usually well- · known man he is writing about . However, when a woman writes about another woman, this \anxiety of influence\ does not exist because most women are not weH•known and the author helps to discover her subject as well as herself. There exists no jealousy, no conflict. Deans Address Issues To write about physical ex- perience and understanding the body, Cooper began writing out of her own \bodily Itnowledge.\ At that time, women writing about such things as childbirth or their own sexuality was greatly frowned upon. Male critics felt that women were trying something that shouldn't be tried. Today, however, the climate is \much better\ for women writing about their During the reading Cooper read poems from Scaffolding and some yet to be published._ Cooper was brought to Union .by the Department of English and the New- York State Arts Council Division of Literature. Continued from page 1 Academic Affairs Council. The proposal has the effect of changing the pass~fail option to include a 0.0 in· the student's cumulative average if the student fails the course. Prior to this change, an \F\ would have been recorded in the student's transcript, but not figured into the student's average. Dean Daniels explained that the reason behind this change was to take the security blanket away from pass-fail courses. He believes a failure should count as a failure if the student takes the course pass-fail or not. Finally, a student wanted to know why the College did such a terrible job of removip.g the snow from the roads and sidewalks after the last, snowstorm. Dean Mammola responded that \physical. plant did the best job they could.\ However, he added that if there is still snow on the sidewalks in front of your dorm, you should call physical plant and ask them to remove it. For those who missed Sunday night's broadcast, there will be a meeting with the deans in Memorial Chapel on Thursday night. The deans will again answer any questions students have about the College. The discussion will begin at 7:30 p.m. ~ . Facilities Examined Continued from page 1 first commented that because of its proximity to the General Electric plant that usage tended to revolve around the pre-work, lunch hour, and after-work hours. The best times to find fewer people then are the mid- morning and mid-afternoon hours, though students may, of course, use the building during any of its open hours. His other comment was in the form of a request. MacFarland asked that students bring their ID cards with them when they go to the YMCA. Sometimes, he said, they are understanding, but they cannot generally let students in unless they have their ID's with them. According to MacFarland, the facilities have seen lot of use by Union students and faculty. The only aspect of the gym that received a negative rating was the weight room \which is in obvious need of repair,. but they're doing that now,\ said Todd Dimmick. Coleman commented that the women's locker room was \fine probably a little better than Alumni Gym. The only problem is that the facility was designed for men, so the women have to ''There is no getting around it; we knew we were in for a difficult year in terms of facilities and use.\ Walk outside the locker room and around the corner to get to the pool. But Alumni Gym was exactly the same if not worse.\ About the weight room, she commented that it \looked McE,v,soy eto Sspea,,k ·I on a1er ex On Wednesday, February 19 at 7:00 p.m., the Dean of Students' Office will present Dr. Bernard McEvoy as its third speaker in the presentation series being offered on \Intimacy Sex and Friend- ship.\ Dr. McEvoy, M.D., F.A.C.P., is a graduate of SUNY Alban~ and Albany Medical College. He is a dermatologist in the City of Schenectady, and is founder and director of Free VD Clinic in Schenectady. His topic for this presentation will be SAFER SEX. Discussion will pertain to Venereal Warts, Molluscum Contageosum, Herpes: Symptoms, 9om- plications, Treatment, Gonorrhea: Male-Female, Oral, Rectal, Symptoms or Lack of, Non-specific Urethritis, Chlamydia: male- female, Scabies, Syphillis, Vaginitis: Yeast, trich, bac- terial and protection from disease. A question and answer period will follow. Attention Freshmen and Sophomores: Are you interested in working for the Best College Newspaper in Schenectady? If so, come to The Concordiensis meeting, this Wednesday at 3:30. We're on the third floor of Old Chapel - so, come on, what's stopping you? pretty bad and is under reconstruction for obvious reasons but we still have one on campus. Overall I thought the gym facilities were better than what we've had in the past on campus. The staff was also extremely helpful and friendly. The only problems I can possibly foresee are crowding at peak hours and tran- sportation for students.\ Eric Coleman. a student who Continued on page 3 Chet looks out on the future of the new Student Center. .. jJIIIIIIUIIIIIII1JIIIIIIIIUIIIIII1JIIIIIIIIIIIIII111JIIIIII1Jtlllllllt11111111UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIK11HIIIllllllllltqlllllllllllllllltiiiiiiU1JIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIJt - This Week's Events· _ = - 13-BLOODMOBILE-Fox Lounge, 11 a.m.-5 p.m. • 14-WINTERFEST 5: - - = BLOODMOBILE-Fox Lounge, 11 a.m.-5p.m. :: = Valentine's Day Dinner Dance =· Dinner-OCOR/HHDR, 7 :30 p.m. :: Dance-Fieldhouse, 9:00p.m. ~ = • 14-16-Film: The Breakfast Club-SS016, 7, 9, llp.m. = - - = 15-WINTERFEST = = / = 5 16-WINTERFEST = = = Open Jam Session with LateNiteBites-HHLL, 9:30 p.m.-12:30a.m. 17-IEF Discussion Series-Humanities Lounge, 12:30 p.m. = - = - 18-Film: Harold&Maude-SS016, 7, 9,11 p.m. = = ~ = ;: Basketball: Union vs. Binghamton-Fieldhouse, 8 p.m. _ J Career Development Programs . e - Orientation to the CDC-· . CDC, 12: 30 p.m. :: = Summer Jobs-HU117, 4:30p.m. and TBA 7 p.m. = - 19-Minerva Hour-Rolando Guillermoprieto-SS106, 11:30 a.m. B: Great Decisions-Democracy in Latin America-OC-A,B,C, 7:30 p.n1. _ Sex, Intimacy, and Relations Series-HHDR, 7 p.m. = - - if . :IF.-ntlllll'!tiii!IIIIIUtfllllllllllflnlllllllllllfiiJIII!IUIIiiJJIIIIIIIUilllliiRulllliUUIJIIiii!JiilllllllllllllllflfllllllllllllliiiiiiiiUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIiiiUIIUIIIIIIUIIIIItlllllnf .... <ll .0 :::l ... ~ <ll > Ill Q >. .c 0 0 J:: c. c t I t 1 t I (CI ( f 1 1 I I t f t f t f I I t I n u v tl E A s

j . CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986 Page3 Center Evaluated Continued from page 2 uses the facility mostly for racquetball but occasionally for other uses added his approval. He also commented in response to some complaints that the facilities were not up to par: ~·I don't buy that. I do buy that it's difficult to get down there.\ He added, ''I'd, say quite a few of the upperclassmen use it. I see a lot of professors using it, too.\ He also mentioned that it is not difficult to get court. time as long as one calls ahead to reserve in the morning. He added, \There's no getting around it; we knew we were in for a difficult year in terms of facilities and use. Unfor- tunately seniors have to put up with it. I think the majority ·of seniors are understanding about it.\ Dean Marnmola commented that starting February 22 there will be a bus that will go every hour to the YMCA as well as to Mohawk Mall, · Colonie Center, and Crossgates Mall on Saturdays. Bob Montana of the athletic department ·commented· that after reviewing the few options available, and he stressed that there were in,deed few, the YMCA seemed to offer the best package to the school in terms of facilities available to students and faculty. Montana said that their \biggest concern was to find some kind of alternative. Clearly it would not be perfef't\ but he added that \the Y has a lot of the things Alumni Gym used to.'' He also noted that ,intrarnurals have not had to be cut back. In fact, he said, there are more volleyball Assemblyman James Tedisco (R-8cbenectady) spoke at Chi Psi last Thursday nig.ht on public service in New YorkState. When asked why the College chose to reconstruct both the Student Center and the Gym at the same time, Dean Mammola responded ''because they both needed to be done.\ He said he feels that the College· made the right decision saying, ''We had the opportunity to d6 both and in my judgment it made good sense to do both.\ NYS Politics Discussed By SARAH CALDERINI teams than in previous years. President of the Union Montana summed up, \We College Young Republicans, didn't think it was goirig to be a Brian Kelly, introduced New perfect situation but we didn't York State Assemblyman Jim want students to come back and Tedisco to the audience at the have us say, 'hey, you're stuck Chi Psi fraternity last Thur- with what we've got'.\ sday, February 6 at 7:30 p.m. Colleges to Lose Funding (CPS) Colleges ar()und the country Funding of campus research still aren't sure how they'll from the departments of compensate for the federal Energy, Defens, Education, funding they're about to · lose Agriculture and Health and because of the new Gramm~ Human Services will drop by Rudman balanced budget bill.· some $450 million at the same But more schools soon -may be time. raising tuition, increasing the Making up for those kinds of amount they charge students to losses won't be easy, officials process student loans and in- say. tensify their fund-raising ef- . Many say tuition increases forts, various officials say. are inevitable. Under the law, which requires At Reed College in Oregon, the government to balance the for example, tuition . rose 8.7 federal budget ·by the start Qf per.cent last year, and \It will the ri~ue·cade,_ 'f~der.al. coljege- . probably have tp .go up at least funding will be cuty by some 4.3 , that much next year,\ says percent by March 1, 1986. Larry Large, vice president for FPrther cuts of up to 50 development and college percent will start in August. relations at the school. The And there may be even fur- college depends on tuition- for ther cuts proposed when about 70 to. 75 percent of its President Reagan unveils his revenues, he says. new federal budget proposal. Reed, like many other schools \There are too many in recent years, also has been unknowns. We don't know what using the interest earned by its we are up against until we see endowment to loan to students the president's budget,\ says as student aid. Bob Aaron of the National But because of the huge size Association of State Univer- of the coming federal budget sities and Land Grant Colleges. cuts, Large is not sure the Just the initial 4.3 percent cut, school will be able to continue however, translates into a $244 meet,ing ~11 student needs. · million dJ.\op in the amount of \It (Gramm-Rudman) will federal student aid moriies really put pressure on en- available this spring. dowment and tuition income,\ Hang on ... just 36 more days till Spring Break!! t • ·, ' Large says.· \We do not have the capacity to pick up the shortfall in federal aid cuts,\ adds Jon. Cosovich, vice president for the development and com- munications at the University of Michigan. As a result, \We are im- plementing plans to cut .spen- ding,\ he adds. Many schools, other officials add, may have to ,stall filling vacancies on their staffs and on their faculties,. · raise housing fees, and . even . cut· back the munber of courses they offer if they're to compensate for the Gramm-Rudman cuts. Major research schools like Michigan also will lose research funding monies it uses to maintain labs and pay staff. Cosovich adds state funding in Michigan, for one, won't increase enough to replace what the Gramm-Rudman cuts will take away. He sees tuition hikes as inevitable. \We think there is elasticity in tuition.\ And to make it easier for people to pay higher tuition, more schools may start lending parents money to pay for it. A few-Bryn Mawr, Washington and Penn among them-already have lending programs. \There is no question it's an increasing practice,\ says Mrgaret Healy, Bryn Mawr's treasurer. Continued on page 4 @ PacJ.<: SV/DW /V! #Je 2PfS. Kelly began by saying that Tedisco was a 1972 graduate of Union and continued to denot the various committees on which he serves in the Assembly: Committee on Children and Families, the Assembly A.ging, Education, and Mental Health Committees and the Sub-conunittee on Child Abuse. Tedisco's first sentence was, \Did he say 1972? It was 1982.\ He showed some hmnor to the audience and thus set the mood for what was soon to be a relaxing yet very imforative evening. Tedisco first started to reminisce about his time at Union. He was a basketball player as well as being a member of Chi Psi. He told of his job as student mailman and how once he signed a petition without reading it and it turned out to request that the student mailman be fired. He went on to t.ell many of his . other fond memories of his college days. Tedisco then addressed his subject: New York State Politics. He began by saying, \First off, I give you a lot of credit for attending college. There are a lot of other options available to you, some that are more alluring, but you should all be proud of yourselves for sticking with your education.\ He believes that a college education is a good prerequisite for public office. Not only does he Yalue education itself but also claimed that the truly important training lies in the interaction which takes place on a college campus. \Learning about people and how to· deal with different types is so im- portant for a public service job,\ he said. He then stated the pros and cons of public office. \If you want to make a lot of money, you do not want to do this. If you have a low frustration tolerance, this is not the job for you.\ (He referred to the time it takes to pass legislation and the subsequent frustration.) And he continued, \You don't have a lot of time for your family.\ But, he said that the rewards compensate for the sacrifices. ''Every day ()ffers a challenge and every day is different,\ he said. \In public office yo11 get 80 percent reinforcement from the people you help.\ He also spok:.e of the challenge to think and to develop new ideas. \The excitement of sharing these ideas, in the form of legislation, is both exciting and scary,\ said Ted.isco. Then the Assemblyman opened up the floor for questions. The first question concerned the process of penetrating the \system\ how to get involved in politics. Tedisco believes that the best way to get involved is to start by working for ()ther candidates. Ringing doorbells and learning public relations is important. \Sell yourself and make con- nections; you'll meet people in every walk of life,\ he said. The next question asked how the national trend toward conservatism has affected the State Assembly. Tedisco an- swered that the Asembly only picked up six seats in the last election, making the com- position 56 Republicans and 94 Democrats. \Basically this tend toward consertavism is really only a trend toward a guy with a great smile and one who's the best communicator in the world,\ he stated. \You just hate to hat'€ the guy.'' He mentioned the fact ·. that some surveys sh\lw that many Americans disagree with Reagan's p()licies but would vote for him anyway. On the subject of the President, T.edisco added that Governor Mario Cuomo will run for President. He believes that Cuomo will wait two years to Continued on page 4 ® Pep fYR cute Cl..ff: f-/1'/··rdJdeS cf c~~ if (1) faa. (;+e cubes n-ec.es~ry. Place cube$. lnve;rc; ftW'iM:I Ot1e ft¥111-:

·•, \0 0 c:: ... <{ Ill ..._ If) ·;:: :.:: >- .n 0 ...... 0 ..c. Q. Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, Fehruary 13, 1986 The first annual Public Speaking Competition was held last Thursday night in Fox l..ou~ge. Junior Peter Granger took first place and received $125. Senior Eric Lipmah (pictured above) placed second, winning $75. Third place went to Senior Allan ·Marcus, who won a $50 gift certificate to the bookstore. Tedisco Speaks on NYS Continued from page 3 give tax cuts to New York State residents, and will then run for office. \Cuomo is a well- respected, young, dynamic person,\ said Tedisco. So, what does he think about the drinking age going to 21? \I think that it's bad, I voted against it. I den't think that it makes sense,\ he said. \It's scary, because· it's not the • answer,\ he added. The an- swers, Tedisco believes, lie in education, teaching people how to drink responsibly and passing laws that are strict punishments. And the seat belt law? \This is not a totalitarian state,; this is a democracy. I don't want someon.e to say to me, 'You wear your seat belt.' \ Tedisco talked of the ·Conflict which exists between upstate and downstate New York. \We don't have the same problems.\ He addressed the fact that upstate assemblymen cannot simply let the problems of New York City go on. But the City does funnel upstate tax do~lars and this presents a conflict. \Sometimes Tedisco added, \the division between these two groups is greater than the parti·san · between the Republican and Democratic parties.\ The futur~ of Schenectady The Student Forum '~5-'86 Minutes area, with the layoffs at General Electric, was then . questioned. Tedisco commented that Schenectady needs to learn about economic develapment and about hoW to attract other industries. Since GE has been the only industry in the area., and, where they used to employ 27,000 people, they now employ only 15,000 people. The future·of the area depends on revived or new industry.· Tedisco answered many other questions and then joined the audience for a cup of coffee. Perhaps Tedisco's most memorable quote of the night: ''I've got the gr·eatest job in the world!\ · Meeting: No 12, February 3, 1986 · . Members Present: C. Siler, B. Bernell, S. Moss, K. Keaveney, A. George, P. Flanmgan, R. G~oss, M. Coleman, S. Ference, T. Dimmick, S. Lipsky, K. Siegel, R. Allen, A. Carrel, L. Galati, C. McGavern, D. Cohen Members Absent: .1. Mountain., M. Bradley, J. Waldman · 1. 1'he meeting was called to order at 7:30p.m. . . . . . 2. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved m.a unanliilous voice vote. [Funding. • • Committee Reports: . 3. Beth Bernell gave the Finance Committee report. The following items were discussed, vote.d on, and passed by unanimous voice votes by the Forum: (A) $480. OOto the Idealist from the reserve. (B) $2,800.00 to the Ski Clubfrom the reserve. (C) $1,500.0() to the International Student Union from the r~serve.. . , . Continued from page 3 Healy is confident her school can make up the difference for cuts in direct grants, though compensating for drastic Guaranteed Student Loans cuts would be more difficult. Congressional sources in- dicate the \front end fee\ students pay to get GSLs soon will be increased from five to five and a half percent. other observers think small, private coll-eges with relatively few resources and no state legislatures to help them may not survive all the Gramm- Rudman cuts. But some educators have predicted the decline of small private colleges for quite a while now. \The doom and gloom boys have been wrong by a country mile,'' asserts Gary Quehl, president of the Council of Independent Colleges. \They are essentially en- trepreneurial institutions that are resourceful in adjusting to hard times,\ Quehl contends. About 65 percent of the small colleges have aggressive fund- raising campaigns to assist students. 4. Kathy Keaveney reported on the AAC proposed that \Gel Tliile be Imple~ented for Fall term '86 for a two year trial period. No action was tak~n on this .proposal at this tune. The Forum will study the AAC report on ''Gel Time.'' for the next meeting. . Old Business . · 5. Andy George and Chris Siler have requested from the Registrar statistics showing class sizes for the past fom terms. New Business . 6. Melinda Phillips proposed to the Forum to have a campus for~ to discuss t?e. showmg of pornographic films on campus. A consensus of the Forum was made m favor of this Idea. It was suggested that Phi Beta Kappa sponsor such a discussion. 7. Dean Mammola was present and· the Forum had an informal discussion with him regarding many oflf:he problems that students are encountering on campus. 8. Motion to adjourn was unanimously passed at 10: OO.p.m. ., Respectfully submitted, David Cohen PIZZA 374-4332 FAST I HOT I FREE DELIVERY Now Open Late for Your Convenience. Wednesday thru Saturday till :OOa.m. Serving the BEST PIZZA at the BEST PRICE! Free 32 oz. Soda· with any order over $5.00 on Sunday nights

CONCORDIENSIS, February JJ, 1986 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIU 111111111111111111111111 U 1111 UllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllllllJIIIIIIIIII. Friday, Febmary 14 SIT DOWN DINNER Hale House seating at 7:30p.m. MOVIE: ''The Breakfast Club\ SS016 7, 9, 11 p .. m. ***WINTERFEST DANCE EXTRAVAGANZA*** Featuring: The ROMANTICS Field House 9 p.m. Saturday, February 15 WINTERFEST VENDORMART baked goods, records,.jewelry, etc. Old Ohape11 .. 5 P:m. CROSS-COUNTRY SKIING get some exercise and have some fun on Library · , · Field Rent skis at Old Chapell-5 p.m. SCAVENGER HUNT ' bring your group of 5 and a bag to hold everything Nott Memorial2 p.m. ICE SKATING Achilles Rink !-2:30p.m. BLAS/GOSPEL ENSEMBLE CONCERT groups from Syracuse, Albany and Schenectady Memorial Chapel2 .p.m. · . ALL CAMPUS SOCIALS sponsored by Panhellenic and Interfraternity Council 6-8 p.m. AT ALPHA DELTA PHI Party hosted by: Sigma Delta Tau, Alpha Delta Phi, Delta ChiandSigma Phi and AT PHI SIGMA KAPPA Party hosted by:· Gamma Phi Beta, Kappa Sigma, Phi Sigma Kappa and Zeta Beta Tau 8-lOp.m. AT DELTA UPSILON Party hosted by: Delta Delta Delta, Chi Psi, Delta Upsilon and Sigma Chi · and ATTHETADELTACHI . Party hosted by: Delta Gamma, Theta Delta Chi, Phi Gamma Delta and Phi Delta Theta ' MOVIE: ''The Breakfast Club\ ss 016 7, 9, 11 p.~. SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 16 CROSS-COUNTRY SKIING rent skis in Old Chapell-5 p.m. < SNOW SCULTPURE CONTEST Weather permitting ***PRIZES*** ICE SKATING Achilles Rink 1-2:30 p.m. MOVIE: ''The Breakfast Club'' SS 016 7, 9, 11 p.m. LATE NITE BITES Hale House 9: 30-12:30 Assortment of home-made desserts, coffee etc. Panhellenic and I nterfratern.ity Councils Sponsor: . February 14- 16, 1986 VENDOR-MART! I Saturday, Feb. 15 . ' Old Chapel 1-5· P.M. .•• sweaters, hats, scarves, records, jewelry, and more!!! Scavenger Hunt!! All Campus Socials:. Saturday, 1 s February S~turday Feb. 15 6-8 p.m. AT ALPHA DELTA PH 1-Party hosted by: Sigma Delta Tau, Alpha Delta Phi, Delta Chi and Sigma Phi 2-4 P.M. - 5 people to a team- PRIZES11 PageS and AT PHI SI-GMA~ KAPPA-Party hosted by: Gamma Phi Beta/ Kappa Sigma, Phi Sigma Kappa and Zeta Beta Tali 8-10 p.m. AT DELTA UPSILON-Party hosted by Delta Delta Delta, Chi Psi, De.lta UpsiJon and Sigma Chi. Sign up in West during dinner hours or in Student Activities Office. and AT- THETA DELTA CHI-Party hosted by: Delta Gamma, Theta Delta Chi, Phi Gamma Delta and Phi Delta Theta ~ Question: Kim/Sheri x6936

Page6 CONCORDJENSIS, February 13, 1986 FEATURES L ~Jx!LK 1 r~.foae: L AM· ~- cs Philosophy Forum . . . The Bonner Presidency Editor's Note: The following is another In our series of ex- cerpts from Professor G. William Huntley's book entitled \Thb.'ty Years in the Life of a College.\ The events of the Bonner administration are related below in considerable detail for two reasons. First, they provide a fascinating and almost un- believable story, and second, they make clear how close the College came to being in deep trouble. One believes, probably correctly, that colleges are able to survive all kinds of vicissitudes, but sometimes the cost is high and the recovery period a long one. What hap- pened to Union in the years following the Civil War when Union almost closed its doors is a case in point. The announcement of Thomas N. Bonner's. appointment as the fifteenth president of Union was made in March of 1974. He came to the College from the University of New Hampshire where he had served for three years as president, He was credited with success there in raising the level of 'both public and legislative support for the university, and he had, by some magic, been able to lower · tuition for two successive years. might lead to an NCAA Division I championship in. hockey by ·1980. The' Concordy observed: \If such a program is· the in- tention of the· College, it is contrary to all statements made by Dr. Bonner and Mr. Harkness.\ The paper went on to scold the president in the following words: 1 \What is more impi:Jrtant here, however, is the question of procedure. · Dr~ Bonner lias called for the independent small college, in the pers9n of Union, to reassert itself. The nature of that reassertion is of critical importance to all members of the. campus; and the feeling of the campus ought to be solicited before such decisions are made.\ The Other Side President Bonner · moved quickly and vigorously in his first year at the College. In spite of the dark economic clouds that spread gloom in the national academic community, he announced the largest faculty and staff compensation increases in same ·years; he called for frequent faculty meetings, created a campus news sheet, reactivated what · used to be called the ad~ ministrative meetings, changed the title to the \Presidential Cabinet,\ brought in con- sultants, began · an attack on deferred maintenance, worried about a campus center, and raised the goals in fund raising. Students were invited ·to the President's House in large numbers, and frequent parties were held for both faculty members and townspeople; these parties being a long step from the small glass of sherry atmosphere of earlier days. . (Januaryl9.75) Finally, in his paper, Bonner indicated his displeasure with the conclusion of the task force in the matter of remaining in NESCAC and not moving toward Division I competition in hockey. He did say, however, that he would support tbe judgment of the College com- munity in these matters. The Concordy lost little time in responding to the president's statement. It began by in- terpreting the \paradox\ in the title as \the attitudes of some people on campus that simply do not have the sagacity to fully understand, support, and in- tensely desire Dr. Bonner's model of a comprehensive college.\ With bluntness, the editor's comment, \His politicking is painfully visibfe,\ and then proceeded to ·scold liim for his concern with athletics at the expense of attention to in- ternal educational problems. Nor was the faculty reluctant to enter the fray. Professor Gado By PAUL R. EDWARDS The living will, recently ad- . vocated in a Philosophy Forum editorial, is not as simple or as benign as it may seem. By signing a living will, a person states his desire for the with- drawal of life-sustaining treatment if he should become terminally ill. Such a statement appears to be straightforward, but it actually leads to a great deal of confusion. Every competent adult already has the right to refuse medical treatment, so living wills are unnecessary. People who do sign a living will are basically forfeiting unspecified treatment under unspecified future circumstances. A living will places an added burden upon the physician, since he must determine whether or not the document applies to the case at hand. The physician could easily be intimidated by the legal force of the docwnent and refuse to provide even the treatment which the patient, if conscious, would desire. What about those patients who cannot refuse medical treatment, not becaue they are comatose, but simply because they are minors or are mentally incompetent? The decision of whether to end treatm~nt or not would then be left to the patient's relatives, even if those relatives vr heirs who might profit from the patient's death, and even if those relatives are bitter enemies of the patient. Also, what happens when ·the patient's relatives cannot agree among themselves whether treatment should end or not? The problems run deeper still. A person might sign a living will without realizing how general and sweeping the docmnent really is. · Many living wills simply indicate a desire to end \extraordinary\ medical care if the patient is too weak to speak for himself. But \ex- traordinary\ medical care is never defined: it is a dangerously subjective term which could be construed to mean almost any treatment under a wide variety of con- ditions. Another type of lifing will, wuch as the type recognized under California law, is only valid during a specific time period-mainly to prevent greedy heirs from using the document as an excuse for pulling the plug needlessly. Even so, those who sign the California living will can never tell exactly under what con- ditions medical care will be withdrawn. Consequently, few people in California have signed even this \moderate\ version of the document. There are positive alter- natives to this dangerously vague document. Many areas now have hospices to comfort .the dying. Such organizations The New Curriculum Is Coming The subcouncil on the curriculum has proposed a set of goals for the new curriculum. Copies of the goals statement are available for students at the circulation desk- in the library. Please address all comments to: Steven Moss, Prof. Mike Rudko, Prof. Christina Sorum, Prof. Don Thurston, Prof. Bill Zaricker Take An Interest It was my impression that Mr. Bonner was very well liked by both the college community and the townspeople during the early part of his stay at Union. I found him always pleasant and cordial, and he seemed to radiate · a sort of infectious optimism. do not try to unnaturally lengthen or shorten a patient's life. Rather, these groups work to make the last days of ter- minally ill people's lives as comfortable and painless as possible. If we, as a society, are concerned for the well-being of dying patients, let us try to help these patients to be as com- fortable as possible in their last days. ThiS-kind of compassion is far superior to the living will, which could easily end a petient's life prematurely. By signing a living will, a person could unknowingly be signing away his life. It was in January of this same year that the first intimation of the struggle that was to develop became manifest. The Con- cordy reported that the New York Times described a program at the College which Continued on page 8 Bus Transportation To The Malls Date: February 22, 1986 Time: 12 noon-12 midnight Place: Starting at Old Chapel Circle YMCA/YWCA Mohawk Mall Colonie Center Crossgates Union (Old Chapel Circle) Price: $1.00 I round trip (tickets available Ticket Booth). Get A CLue! in Old Chapel React to the Facts Convene-with the Deans. Have your questions answered and opinions heard by the administration Memorial Chapel· February 13, 1986 7:30 .P·~·-9:00 p.m. Refreshments served . following discussion. ! • c 1 , ( 1 , f ~ 1 ( ~ 1 1 t I ( ] t f r c {: v f f iJ IJ f, 0 v s a k 0 i: r g v s tl 0

-CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986 Page7 W . 1 w···· 1neapp e ·.. ·Ins Fellowship By MARJORIE HOFFER Professor Brenda Wineapple, an asSociate professor of English, was awarded a· full- . yea~:' fellowship from - the Nat-iop.al Endowment for the Hutnanities. The N.E.H. was established by Congress in 1965 to support research, education, and public projects in the hUmanities. Professor Wfueapple will continue the work sne began two years ago on the biography of Janet Flanner, an American born writer. (The bio-graphy .is due for publication in 1988.) Wineapple,- whose speCialty here at :Union is 19th and 20th century American literature, stated she was intrigued by Flanner' :;~\life and her. people.\ Professor Wineapple will spend the year continuing . her research in Washington, Texas and Paris. She has already conducted interviews with Flanner's friends including such writers as K. Boyle, M~F.K. Fisher, her colleagues at The New y_,rker, and the poet Hil~egard Flanner, who is Janet-'s sister and last remaining relative . Janet Flanner worked as a Paris correspondent for The New Yorker magazine. She was the recipient of the National Book WAward in 1966 for Paris Journal; Volume I 1945-1965. Flanner was renowned for her work on the social and literary life of France from 1925-1975. In addition, she was a World War II correspondent writing from Rome, Prague, Vienna, and Nuremberg. While abroad, Flanner had the opportunity to include profiles of Picasso, Edith Wharton,. Andre Malraux, and Adolf Hitler, in her two books An American in Paris, and Men and Monuments. Flanner's life and achievements are sure to make- a ·very intersting biography considering her experience in Europe through the depression and its war-torn years. FEATURES OMN16UZ~ IJ I ~~ C 'JA. I LETS 15E\ FASHIONA'5tY LATE 1 You S/110. NU't-.1 t-OOK_- W~ MISSED ,AU. IH\ Fv'\· On 'Bias' In Academia By FELMONDAVIS and JAN LUDWIG \Bias\ is very much a bad word; news media express pride in what they call \balanced coverage,\ that is, Stop.Date Rape coverage without \bias and one often hears it said that there are always two sides to a question (though one might wonder why only two?). So, if bias is so bad, what could possibly be wrong with the idea that \Accuracy in Academia\ is implementing (reportedly on about 150 campuses across the country) of enlisting students to monitor their professors' lec- tures in order to ferret out inaccuracies and biased presentations of the facts?. The classroom is surely a place where \balance \accuracy\ and' 'lack of bias\ are required, and if .students can help keep their professors . on the mark, so much the better for the educational process as a whole. \liberal\ bias, leaving aside any concern with the sort of rightwing bias which it represents and promotes. According to its first director, Malcolm Lawrence, AIS agitates against \incorrect information which leads to condusions that may be distasteful from the point of view of our national heritage or national security .... Just plain bad facts.\ \Incorrect in- formation\ anyone would find unacceptable, but why only if it is \distasteful fmm the point of view of our national heritage or our national security\? Shouldn't incorrect information disseminated by appointed guardians of our \national security\ or those with strong and !mesided tastes about our \national heritage\ also come under AIA's scrutiny? The fact is that AIS is not concerned with accuracy or correctness as su~h; the only biases it finds distasteful are one contrary to its own. It is run by rightwing ide()logues like Reed Irvine- founder of \Accuracy in the Media\ and promoter of right wing agendas-and John LeBoutillier, current presidept of AIA and formerly a New York Congressman who co- sponsored a bill during his one term in Washington which would have created a House subcommittee on internal seclliity. By CATHY MARKES Last Thursday night I at- tended a showing of two short films on the subject of date rape: The·. Women's Network and Joanne To'biesse·n are currently considering the purchase of these films, both of which raised questions valuable for discussion. For this reason, the films may be introduced into the Freshman Orientation program and also be available for use by the various sororities on campus. Date rape occurs When a woman is forced to have sex in a situation which all started off as a typical date with. a man she knew fairly well. Particularly on college campuses, date -rape is an incident which can be rationalized by males as \She got exactly what she wanted.\ Women are left feeling that somehow they provoked the act through their attitudes, speech, or actions. Beqmse of this, Introducing •.. women who are victims of date rape have a ·hard time with actually admitting tha,t they have been raped. After all, the man was .no masked lunatic, but (\n acqu?int~nce, perhaps .a friend. As one of the films pointed out, however: \It does happen and it is rape.\ A pertinent question raised in both of these films was the ambiguity of the word \no\ when spoken by a woman in a sel!;ual encounter. What exactly does a woman mean when she says \no\ to a man? Some men seem to think \no\ actually means \She wants it\ and then a date rape is likely to occur. others take \no\ to mean \maybe\ and then try to coerce the woman into havifig sex anyway. Few seem to take \no\ to mean exactly that. So what has happened in the evolution of the English language to alter the meaning of the word \no\? You may rightfully question how a once GBake~· Tea'Room ·Candy· GifQ; ([)ottit gaffo} SWEET TOOTH Gounnet Specialties 5·18 · 393 · 5592 A Country Fre11ch Gourmet F()(Jd; Candy and Gift Store • •• Featuring: Snacks, A Fu~lline of . 10 % discount Baked Goods, Naturai90soda Valentmes Gifts for including a Gourmet Pizzas I C II birthday cake for Sausage bread gift wrapping inc!uded Un on . 0 ege someone Special dips.- _the list is endless Students emphatic word with only one dictionary definition has taken of all these different con- notations. As a commentary in last wee~'s Concordy suggests, mass media in the U.S. has certainly playe& a role. How many movies or videos have we all seen when a woman is forced or talked into sexnal in- tercourse~and she always loves it, right? If women really do maintain their right to say \no\ to a man, what does it take for that man to be able to accept her decision? Think about it ... Date rape is certainly not a light topic and deserves to be treated as a serious matter. The purchase of the two films I saw should prove to raise the awareness of the Union com- munit-y. There are two major prol>lems with this idea: one has to do with the slant of ''Accuracy itt Academia'' itself, and the other with the whole issue of the nature of' 'bias'' and \objectivity indeed with the nature ·Of the \educational process.\ First, in regard to \Accuracy in Academia\ it must be said that if \bias\ is so bad, AlA itself is a biased organization. It onesidedly preoccupies itself with Circle K Skis By KATHY KURTZ On January 25, eight- mem- bers of Circle K and ten youths from the Schenectady Boys' Club spent the day at Willard Mountain. Seeing as only a couple of the Circle K members had ever skied before, we all started at the beginning- learning how to walk in ski boots. Once we became somewhat adept at that, it was time_ for the next step, the skis. We spent a lot of time sidestepping Up a small slope and having an instructor show us the proper way to ski down. Well, some of us were naturals and others, like me, spent a lot of time on the ground. Some of the group went on to the more advanced slopes and others advanced inside to the fire. After warming up with hot chocolate and pretzels, we returned to campus for pizza and soda. All in all, it was an enjoyable trip for children and adults alike. Ski trips are not the only projects Circle K undertakes. We are presently selling roses and carnations for Valentine's Day, and are in the process of sen- ding out letters to parents in- forming them that they can order birthday cakes for their son or daughter away at school. If you would like to be part of these projects, and may more, come to our next meeting on Wednesday, February 19, at 7 p.m .. in SS115. Hope to see you there! AlA would have students check up on the inaccuracies-if they run counter to rightwing ideology--and biases--same qualification--of their professors, report their findings to AlA which will \investigate (the students' complaints) and try to get something done if the complaint is valid and serious,\ says Irvine in his recent New York Times piece. Do things like what? The first issue of AlA's Campus Report urges its readers to write to the president of Arizona State about a professor it accuses of using ''pornographic'' slides (Conason, Village Voice). When Les Csorba, now AlA's Continued on page 8 Union College.Speakers Forum Presents Phyllis Schlofly the changing roles of men and women in society Tues: March 4th 8:00p.m. Memorial Chapel Tickets: free-pic;~k.th~m up at . ~tudent Activities ·sox Office

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986 FEATURES Academic ·'Bias' Continued English Department Announces W ... c Continuedfrom page 6 executive secretary led a picket line demonstrating against the showing of a documentary on Cuba which ·Professor Saul Landau of Davis, California, had developed, a rightwing state senator launched an in- vestigation into the university's hiring practices. Although Csorba says he did not want Landau fired, he claims to have a \secret target list\ of 1,000 professors he believes to be radical and boasts that \ ... we (AlA) are having a chilling effect\ on the way professors teach. Even if it just sticks to printing professors' names in their newsletter, AlA may create unwarranted notoriety which can make those professors subject to harassment by fanatics. This has the effect of squelching free academic debate-as Slrv.ine proudly boasts, \(Izvestia) said professors throughout America 'are quivering with fear'.\ Obviously not a state of mine-if it were true--conducive to serious teaching; indeed, AlA is likely to stimulate \the very qualities best calculated to keep (students) culturally im- proverished and politically mean and brittle--arrogance and righteous arrogance,\ Midge Deeter, herself a prominent neo-conservative, writes in the New York Times. But this brings us to the second problem with AlA's whole philosophy of \bias \accuracy\ and education. \Bias\ may be a bad word but what it denotes is not always bad, namely, having opinions which one is prepared to examine and defend, having a \slant\ or an \angle\ on something, having convictions. Teachers should have these, and students should be exposed to them. (Deeter: \How can a person without opinions be qualified to teach?\) What is required in education is open debate in which the slant of a teacher or a text ·is exposed to scrutiny; this is the process whereby one learns. An ideologue, of the right or of the left, who refuses critical inquiry, who dees not welcome challenge from all points of view, really should not teach. Students who \are smart enough to sense when they're being sold a bill of goods,\ says Irvine, \have a right to com- plain, but if they do so officially, it can backfire.\ But students only have a right to complain if they are prevented from challenging the teacher, from getting opposing points of view aired, in sum, from engagmg in the process of their own education. Otherwise, they should be happy to have a teacher who has opinions and convictions-by rubbing their own views against such \biases even if they're abrasive, students stand to learn; unfortunately, this ex- perience of challenge, response and insight is precisely what AlA is designed to stymie. This interaction of views assumes an open atmosphere in the classroom; opinions can be freely aired only if both teachers and students know why they are in the classroom together in the first place. AlA would have student volunteers enroll in courses for the purpose of \spying'' on supposedly liberal, leftist or Marxist professors, even to the extent of · offering to pay tuition for senior citizens and others who enlist for this duty. But a professor assumes that each student in a class is there to examine critically the matters presented, to challenge positions where it seems fit, and to contribute to the education of everyone involved, including of course the professor. AlA student \plants armed with tape recorders and a biased ear for \inaccuracies\ to be secretly reported to the parent organization outside the classroom, violate the shared interest in education, and the essential tmst, assumed by those individuals who are in classrOoms freely to teach and to learn.. · AIA is \biased.\ That's not so bad. But they are {)pposed to education; that is unacceptable. Jan Ludwig is Associate Professor of Philosophy. Felmon Davis is Visiting Instructor of Philosophy. r1t1ng · · .. on test · By ALAN NELSON . any year, are eligible for these Writing at Union can be profitable for Winners of con- tests annoWlced this week by the English .Department. Po- sted around campus are details for five writing competitions which Will award· prizes rangmg from $100 to $1,000 this May at Prize Day. All entries must be submitted no later thanMonday, March 31--the first day of Spring term. \Amounts like that can buy a new typewriter, or a lifetime supply of pens and yellow pads,\ said Professor Alan Nelson, who is in charge of publicizing the competitions and arranging the committees of judges. ''We hope that students with possible entries will get them into shape to submit. Some shy writers need to be prodded into action.\ All but one of the competitions are long--established annual affa.frs at Union. Three of them emphasize \creative writing\.. fiction, poetry, or the informal essay. These are the Shocket Prize (new this year), to be awarded for excellence in creative writing; the Yudis Prize for tfle best prose fiction; and the prize for poetry which is awarded each year at Union by the Academy of American Poets. All undergraduates, in awards. · Two awards are made for qon-fiction writing: The VanOrden Prize for tl!e fresh- man student who excels in English composition, and the Allen Essay Prize is meant for the senior who writes the best non-fiction essay .. \The writing often comes from work done for classes,\ said Prof. Nelson, \'but \it certainly need not.\ He added that some students assume that the contests are meant for English majors', but that \winners have come from all parts of the campus.\ The money for prizes is sometimes divided, to allow recognition of second or third-place winners. He said that he hoped the faculty would urge good writers to submit their work. \Sometimes a roommate gives a good push,\ he added. The deadline for submission is Monday, March 31, which is the first day of the Spring term. All entries must be turned in with a . pseudonym, · ac- companied by a sealed envelope revealing the writer's real name. Further details may be had from: Prof. Nelson in Humanities 210, or by phone at 6207. Alan Nelson is Professor of English. Bonner Presidency Cont. Black .. History Month Continued fl.-om page 1 wrote a long and stinging criticism of the entire Bonner position, opening with the .dire prediction, \Should Bonner prevail, it would mean the death of the Union in which I once Athletic Director Carlson and his staff recommended that Union leave NESCAC, and at the end of the month Provost Enteman circulated·a campus- wide statement announcing the suspension of Admission Director Shupe for irregularities in the admission of certain students, presumably hockey players. President Bonner was not about to retreat, for in April he sent the trustees a report entitled, \Union Athletics in Perspective,\ in which he continued to argue that Union should leave the New England Conference and play Division I hockey. \misguided the campus community.\ Things were indeed becoming very warm, and a new publication called The Campus Voice called for \the resignation of the in- stigators of the lies.\ The word, resignation, then, was in the air. Influences By JIM MARSHALL The black American Church has had a most powerful in- fhience on its congregation for many years. Although Blacks had been permitted to par- ticipate in the White American Church, as exceptions in most cases, Black American Church traditions did not evolve until after the American Civil War. By this time most African religious traditions had \Qeen altered, and the Christian persuasion became the ac- cepted religious influence on most black Americans. Now that Christian beliefs had been instilled in their backgrounds they were free to modify the institution in order to suit their own needs as a group, and that is just what they did. It may be argued that black Americans have made con- tributions to several non- Christian sects including Judaism and Moslemism. In addition, one may point out that blacks have been involved in Catholicism and more con- servative forms of Protestantism. Nevertheless, most balck religious beliefs and customs surfaced through the Baptist Church and Congregational Churches such as the Church of God in Christ. The black American Church has had an impact in various forms. First, it has produced several national leaders. The Reverends Martin L. King Jr. and Jesse Jackson are respeced dared put my trust.'' He· for their social ~d political probably echoed the feeling of inspiration as church leaders. most of his colleagues in Second, its gospel music has questioning the wisdom of a inspired music-lovers of all move by Union into the styles. A strong and pulsating university arena. Interestingly, rhythm as well as an intricate Gado concluded with a request h a r m on i c p r o g r e s s i on that the custom of annual characterizes gospel music. reviews of each faculty member These progressions caused, to a he extended to include an im- large extent, the development mediate review of the of rhythm and blues w\Pich president's stewardship. forms the basis for other types It was now March of 1977, and of music like jazz and -ruck and the battle lines for the conflict The full board was scheduled roll. Also, many music singers - between the president and the to meet on campus in the middle in all areas of music, even college community were well of April, and its arrival was opera, have a powerful drawn. Much of the fuel for this preceeded by a flurry. of background in gospel music. conflagration, the reader will memoranda. Faculty Trustees Third, the black Church has· recall, was provided by all that Schi~k and Thomas prepared a encouraged the development of was being done to make Union a statement which, according to strong, moral, independent, and power in hockey. It will be theConcordy, placedthe blame compassionate individuals who remembered that this was one for the campus uproar upon Mr. rely on their faith in God. As in of the topics of discussion at the Bonner and charged him with most religions there are duties general faculty meeting when \underhanded political conduct and responsibilities that the president had to relinquish and deliberate attempts to members should uphold if they the chair, something that undermine the governance hope to gain eternal blessings. almost certainly never hap- structure.\ The president Moreover, these duties pened before in the whole replied with a paper that at- strengthen the positive history of the College. Open tacked the goyemance struc- development of thei'r diverse divisions within the ad- ture, blamed the controversy on personalities. ministration were beginning to , poor COIIlf!l.Unications and on When the board met on the morning of April 16, President Boimer did indeed submit his resignation, as did Chairman Fortenbaugh '23. The board minutes then tell what hap- pened: r The following Resolution was made and seconded:' RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees refuses to accept Mr. Fortenbaugh's resignation and requests that he withdraw it and continue in his position as Chairman of the ·Board of Trustees of Union College. VOTED Wlanimously. Fallowing extended comment and discussion, the following Resolution was made and seconded: RESOLVED, that the Board of Trustees refuses to accept Dr. Bonner's letter of resignation and requests that he withdraw it and continue in his positon as President of the College. VOTED (three of the campus trustees abstained) . To be contiDued next week. All in all, the black American be apparent. Newly appointed campus leaders who Church has influenced the ,__....., __________ _.. ____________________ ....,. positive development of American culture in general. Most people recall the church scene in The Blues Brothers movie whenever they think about the black Church. Cer- tainly, this is a valid portrayal of the physical and mental liveliness and vibrancy that distinguishes the black American Church. DEADLINE FOR SUMMER AND FALL TERM ABROAD PROGRAMS PART TIME HELP WANTED Students who are interested in Socialized Medicine Study in the U.S., England, Hungary and, Sweden this summer, and all\ Fall Term Abroad Programs, (Italy, France, Japan, China, York and ·Bath;. England) should note that the application deadline is this Friday, February 14, 1986. Applications are available in the Terms Abroad office, H U 211. · To operate NCR Mainframe/ monitor on-line, and answer phones on weekends. Some com- puter experience helpful, but not required. Contact Charles Kingsbury at:399-6611.

.~ CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986 From TERAJJYNE A ~ry lArge Se11le Invitation from a teebnokJgy leader In electronics, the era of very large scale integration (VLSI) has arrived, leaving many companies with products suddenly obsolete and engineering staffs struggling to catch up. But not 'JlJradyne. Thanks to $119 million spent on R & Din 1981-1984, Teradyne was ready and waitingfor VIS/. · Ready with VLSJ memory testers, logic testers, analog testers, board testers. Ready in Boston, Ma., and Woodland Hill's, Calif., where 'Jeradyne develops ATE for the electronics industry. · Ready in Deerfield, Dlinois, c~ter for Teradyne s telephone system testing operations. Ready in Nashua, New Hampshire, where 'Jeradyne produces backplane connection systems and state-of/he-art circuit board technology designated to meet VSLI requirements. This kind of technology leadership spells growth. Excitement. Cha!/enge. Career _opportunities you just can't find anywhere else. Teradyne. A company ahead of its time, looking for some good people to.keep it ahead. For more information, see your Placement Counselor. SHARE IN' OUR ' SUCCESS Congratulations Dr. Margaret Schadler 372-0039 1902 VanVranken Ave. Schenectady, New York Say it With Wine Go Union College Ski Team! ..... Moffett~s Liquors Van Branken Ave. (next to Norstar Bank) Wet/ f-1£u.t;:coo ~ baby- co?.e>. w~ i 1 yCCXJu w 111y VAL£NTTN~? lfv;hy sh:xfld · (I<> 1 /:· Ch~f? \__; . ~ yr;vt 8 o a11y~ay . 1¢'/u ~Natural Choice' Pies, Cakes Look for us atthe Breads *Winter Carnival* Cookies, Pastries; on February 151-5 p.m. Donuts in Old Chapel ~>ictl!!s I /oi£ (J?d f/¥./rr ft13-t -;(ic/t:.s tJP li~ {13111es-. c;13p rr Chtf>· ~ /rr.e-;~i/?12 a~ reu J1a!Lf t)jmY1y ~MB l ( V;arv-· ~ ~p fi f1J _:· -.;..,;;;; - r:; \? '!$((} ii&rt;t tJ '(/ VI :=at:# 0;7 f\'.Y 40 9 c&!.~l1acy 679 N.,..SootlandAvo. •4112·1714 Page9 ·IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIJIOIIIIIIIIII VINTAGE CLOTHING SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK 179 JAY STREET (518) 370·3257 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 A Gospel Show in recognition of Black History Month will be held in Memorial Chapel on Friday, February 15, 2:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Reception to follow sponsored by the Black and Latin Alliance of Students and Gospel Ensemble.

Page lO CONCORDIENSJS, February 13, 1986 Foundtd at. llnion Coli~~ 1877 ------------ --~------- e're Bound There sure is a lot going on around here. Our campus life is soon-to-be improved. The new College Center is going to be magnificent with plenty of places to just \hang out,\ new offices for student clubs and a decent place to watch movies. It's going to be great. The new gym will be equally good. We're going to have a new pool, new locker rooms and some squash courts. There will be more room for everyone to participate in both recreational and team athletics. It's going to be great. It's a funny thing though; how the College with all its concern for the betterment of student life, could overlook a very important aspect of our lives, namely the library. This is one building that definitely needs some renovation. On the outside it looks neat; it does contribute to the beauty of our campus. But as with most things in life, it's what's on the inside that counts. Schaffer Library simply does not provide us with the resources we need. It has all the basics such as reference books and a large newspaper collection. But how many students write \basic\ papers?· And how many professors like to receive \basic\ papers? Writing a 10-20 page research paper is virtually impossible at Schaffer Library. Have you ever looked at some of the books in our library? Some of them surely compete with Nott Memorial for age. How many people here have used or ever will use A History of Chess, a book which is 890 pages long. This is not to say that books such as these should not be here. They should be here if people use them. But, if they're not being used, they're only taking up space where books that could be helpful could be placed. Schaffer Library should have some system of book evaluation ·so that tho~e books not being used at all could be thrown out. Yes, they have a book sale every year. Maybe next year it ought to be bigger. The College can boast about its extensive inter- library loan program but, really, who wants to wait around for a week to get a book that they want? Great ideas come when they're least expected. If not at- tended to immediately these ideas often flee our minds. In essence, the only intelligent way to write a research paper is to leave. Go home for the weekend and use the library there. Or drive a half hour to SUNY Albany and use their facilities. It's a very poor reflection on Union to have to say it, but it's true: we cannot even write a decent paper with the resources directly available to us. How sad it is that we must travel great distances to get these books we need simply to sit down and write. · How sad it is that this most important aspect of our college life has been so neglected. When all around us buildings are being built, is it too much to ask the College to spend 8ome money on our intellectual development? Letters to the editor and • commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis . i ··- LETTERS- Travelling Ori Easter To the Editor: We are extremely upset over what we view as being religious discrimination. Union College opens its dormitories on Sun~ day, March 31, for Spring Term. This also happens to be Easter Sunday, the most holy and important holiday in Christianity. On what should be a day of rest and reverence, we are forced by Union College to spend the entire day arranging, travelling, and moving into our rooms and preparing for classes that begin the very next day. The actions of a non-sectarian institution such c1S Union should not be such that they interfere with the practice of any religion in any way. We are not asking that the sQhool observe religious holidays. We are asking that they do not interfere with these holidays in any way. True, Yom Kippur, Passover, and other Jewish holidays are not ob- served by this school, but this school does not interfere with these holidays. We believe that plans can and should be made such that students are not forced to ignore their own religious beliefs due to such an occurrence as the opening of dormitories. Respectfully submitted, Peter M. Farrell Christopher R. O'Donnell Andrew Taylor Peter Mantica Derek C. Stettner Anthony F. Duva, Jr Craig Andreoli Peter Leventhal Richard Samuelson Nicholas Capoltano JonathonSlepski Mark D. Wilson Benjamin Ignacio William M. Jones IV· Timothy P. Fallon PeterBove Kathleen Cullinan Ronald L. Willson Richard Gurney Pete Gillespie John Alzindani Speaking Competition Applauded To the Editor: I'd like to express my congratulations to and ad- miration for those students involved in last week's public sepaking contest. Adam Rosman and his associates not only conceived the idea for the contest, but, through what was obviously careful planning and hard work brought it off in a smooth and Dear Editors: As faculty who participated in judging the preliminary and final rounds of the recent public speaking competition we want to applaud the performance of all those whose efforts con- tributed towaP.d making the contest a truly memorable event. This group includes the contestants themselves, all of Pornography . Redressed To the Editor: After four years of observing certain campus groups protest the showing of pornographic fihns on campus, I have decided to air some of my thoughts, knowing that there are others on campus who share my views. Speaking plainly, I must ask why there are peope on campus, and elsewhere, who feel it is their duty and responsibilitv to shield me from what they consider immoral activities. I am quite flattered that there are individuals who do not even know me but still care about my proper moral development. However, I am now 22 years old and am mature enough to know what is best for me; this includes making my own decisions as to the type of en- tertainment I choose to attend, no matter what those choices happen to be. I think that all of the men and women (and there · were women present) who bought out the nine and eleven o'clock showings of \Debbie Does Dallas\ would agree with me. In other words, the members of the audience were only exercising their right of freedom of choice in attending \Debbie Does Dallas\. No one was forced to attend that movie. Ironically, I did not attend \Debbie Does Dallas\ as I had already seen it. Rather. I chose to see Gerald Gardner's presentation on censorship of the media. · Respectfully submitted, Marc S. Feldstein Class of 1986 thoroughly entertaining fashion. The contestants put them-:. selves under an incredible amount of presure... speaking in front of scores of their peers on a quotation revealed to them only seconds hefote. They performed admirably, with talent, courage and good humor. · The audience was impressive in its size (it filled Fox Lounge) them very impressive, especially the three winners. (We should not forget that some of those who did not place in the top three nevertheless made outstanding presentations, either in the finals or the preliminaries.) All those students, staff, and faculty whe contributed in other ways to the contest also deserve applause. Finally, we wish to applaud and in the courtesy and at- tention it extended the con- testants. Large audience size and such graciousness is a rare combination; it was gratifying .to see.it displayed so well here at home. Again, congratulations to all. It was a class act. Sincel'ly, Dwight Phaup vigorously for Adam Rosman, without whom there would have been no competition. By his efforts he provided a model for student-staff-faculty interaction and helped mightily to brighten the winter of Union's discon- tent. Sincerely, The Faculty Judges for the Public Speaking Competition Great Maintenance Job To the Editor: After chopping, digging and shoveling the heavy mix of ice and snow and fighting the bad roads and traffic this morning I was impressed by the condition of the campus. Although cer- tainlynotideal, it was far better than any of the areas I en- countered on my way in. I wonder how many people who complain about poor conditions I • on campus realize how many roadways, sidewalks and parking lots must be cleared and maintained while main- tenance crews work (often while the rest of us are still asleep) around construction, illegally parked vehicles, etc. I would like to commend the people who have this thankless job! · Yvonne HUXhold - .. - To nu: thE pri thE ab ,cl~ im sc; fa< fac C~ll ha sp1 sui fev fac 1 rec pre col sar to otb off1 wa tre set sal pre mo les res tirr To '] re< Fu1 ( dis jud ( so ere jus ton eitl ( ere am qui jus con mo F \w 12, (wl arE the anc cla; lasj Dhi terJ inc: inc:

Page 10 CONCORDJENSJS, FebruarJ' 13, 1986 Olllltfllrbtrnsis Fournkd at .[ !ruon Collegt /87-:' ------------ -------- e're Bound There sure is a lot going on around here. Our campus life is soon-to-be improved. The new College Center is going to be magnificent with plenty of places to just \hang out,\ new offices for student clubs and a decent place to watch movies. It's going to be great. The new gym will be equally good. We're going to have a new pool, new locker rooms and some squash courts. There will be more room for everyone to participate in both recreational and team athletics. It's going to be great. It's a funny thing though; how the College with all its concern for the betterment of student life, could overlook a very important aspect of our lives, namely the library. This is one building that definitely needs some renovation. On the outside it looks neat; it does contribute to the beauty of our campus. But as with most things in life, it's what's on the inside that counts. Schaffer Library simply does not provide us with the resources we need. It has all the basics such as reference books and a large newspaper collection. But how many students write \basic\ papers? And how many professors like to receive \basic\ papers? Writing a 10-20 page research paper is virtually impossible at Schaffer Library. Have you ever looked at some of the books in our library? Some of them surely compete with Nott Memorial for age. How many people here have used or ever will use A History of Chess, a book which is 890 pages long. This is not to sav that books such as these should not be here. They should be here if people use them. But, if they're not being used, they're only taking up space where books that could be helpful could be placed. Schaffer Library should have some system of book evaluation· so that those books not being used at all could be thrown out. Y esi they have a book sale every year. Maybe next year it ought to be bigger. The College can boast about its extensive inter- library loan program but, really, who wants to wait around for a week to get a book that they want? Great ideas come when they're least expected. If not at- tended to immediately these ideas often flee our minds. In essence, the only intelligent way to write a research paper is to leave. Go home for the weekend and use the library there. Or drive a half hour to SUNY Albany and use their facilities. It's a very poor reflection on Union to have to say it, but it's true: we cannot even write a decent paper with the resources directly available to us. How sad it is that we must travel great distances to get these books we need simply to sit down and write. How sad it is that this most important aspect of our college life has been so neglected. When all around us buildings are being built, is it too much to ask the College to spend some money on our intellectual development? letters to the editor and • commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis LETTERS - Travelling On Easter To the Editor: We are extremely upset over what we view as being religious discrimination. Union College opens its dormitories on Sun- day, March 31, for Spring Term. This also happens to be Easter Sunday, the most holy and important holiday in Christianity. On what should be a day of rest and reverence, we are forced by Union College to spend the entire day arranging, travelling, and moving into our rooms and preparing for classes that begin the very next day. The actions of a non-sectarian institution such ciS Union should not be such that they interfere with the practice of any religion in any way. We are not asking that the school observe religious holidays. We are asking that they do not interfere with these holidays in a:ny way. True, Yom Kippur, Passover, and other Jewish holidays are not ob- served by this school, but this school does not interfere with these holidays. We believe that plans can and should be made such that students are not forced to ignore their own religious beliefs due to such an occurrence as the opening of dormitories. Respectfully submitted, Peter M. Farrell Christopher R. O'Donnell Andrew Taylor Peter Mantica Derek C. Stettner Anthony F. Duva, Jr Craig Andreoli Peter Leventhal Richard Samuelson Nicholas Capo.llano Jonathon Slepski Mark D. Wilson Benjamin Ignacio William M. Jones IV · Timothy P. Fallon PeterBove Kathleen Cullinan Ronald L. Willson Richard Gurney Pete Gillespie John Alzindani Speaking Competition Applauded To the Editor: I'd like to express my congratulations to and ad- miration for those students involved in last week's public sepaking contest. Adam Rosman and his associates not only conceived the idea for the contest, but, through what was obviously careful planning and hard work brought it off in a smooth and Dear Editors: As faculty who participated in judging the preliminary and final rounds of the recent public speaking competition we want to applaud the performance of all those whose efforts con- tributed toward making the contest a truly memorable event. This group includes the contestants themselves, all of Pornography Redressed To the Editor: After four years of observing certain campus groups protest the showing of pornographic films on campus, I have decided to air some of my thoughts, knowing that there are otlrers on campus who share my views. Speaking plainly, I must ask why there are peope on campus, and elsewhere, who feel it is their duty and responsibilitv to shield me from what they consider immoral activities. I am quite flattered that there are individuals who do not even know me but still care about my proper moral development. However, I am now 22 years old and am mature enough to know what is best for me; this includes making my own decisions as to the type of en- tertainment I choose to attend, no matter what those choices happen to be. I think that all of the men and women {and there were women present) who bought out the nine and eleven o'clock showings of \Debbie Does Dallas\ would agree with me. In other words, the members of the audience were only exercising their right of freedom of choice in attending \Debbie Does Dallas\. No one was forced to attend that movie. Ironically, I did not attend \Debbie Does Dallas\ as I had already seen it. Rather, I chose to see Gerald Gardner's presentation on censorship of the media. Respectfully submitted, Marc S. Feldstein Class of 1986 thoroughly entertaining fashion. The contestants put themo. selves under an incredible amount of presure... speaking in front of scores of their peers on a quotation revealed to them only seconds before. They performed admirably, with talent, courage and good humor. The audience was impressive in its size (it filled Fox Lounge) them very impressive, especially the three winners. (We should not forget that some of those who did not place in the top three nevertheless made outstanding presentations, either in the finals or the preliminaries.) All those students, staff, and faculty who contributed in other ways to the contest also deserve applause. Finally, we wish to applaud and in the courtesy and at- tention it extended the con- testants. Large audience size and such graciousness is a rare combination; it was gratifying to see it displayed so well here at home. Again, congratulations to all. It was a class act. Sincerly, Dwight Phaup vigorously for Adam Rosman, without whom there would have been no competition. By his efforts he provided a model for student-staff-faculty interaction and helped mightily to brighten the winter of Union's discon- tent. Sincerely, The F acuity Judges for the Public Speaking Competition Great Maintenance Job To the Editor: After chopping, digging and shoveling the heavy mix of ice and snow and fighting the bad roads and traffic this morning I was impressed by the condition of the campus. Although cer- tainly not ideal, it was far better than any of the areas I en- countered on my way in. I wonder how many people who complain about poor conditions on campus realize how many roadways, sidewalks and parkmg lots must be cleared and maintained while main- tenance crews work (often while the rest of us are still asleep) around construction, illegally parked vehicles, etc. I would like to commend the people who have this thankless job! Yvonne Huxhold -----------·'\'\~···a---------.., - To nu th4 pr th4 ab -cl< im sc fac fac ca ha sp su1 fe' fa< r re1 pr< col sa1 to ott off wa tn scl sal pn me les res tin To 1 rec Fu ( di~ juc ( so CrE jus ton eitl ( ere anc qui jus cor mo F \w 12, (wl an the am cia las· Di' ter inc inc

CONCORDIENSIS, February 13,1986 Page 11 In Defense of Faculty To the Editor: I'd like to conunent on a vast nwnber of complaints against the faculty that have been printed in Concordiensis over the past few weeks. I have read about unreasonably large -classes, courses that were impossible to get into, a scandalously high student- faculty ratio, and apathetic faculty members who don't care about their students. Yet I have seen remarkably few specifics regarding these subjects, and I'd like to say a few words in defense of the faculty. The faculty's workload was recently lowered to ap- proximately equal other colleges and tmiversities on the same level as Union. Previous to this, when Union and the other colleges were making offers to a professor they both wanted, Union was at an ex- treme disadvantage. Both schools were offering · similar salaries, but at Union that professor would have much more class work to do, leaving less time for preparati~m. research, or just plain free time. By lowering this workload, Uniau can improve its bids to incoming professors and thereby raise the level of education here. This puts the Departments at Union 'temporarily in a difficult position of having not enough professors to teach the courses previously offered. From reading your .previous letters to the editor, it .seems many people found it impossible to get into the cQ_urses they wanted. · Luckily for me, I didn't have this problem, and neither did most of the people in the courses I've been taking. It seell\s that certain D~partments (such as Mathematics, Computer Science~ and Engineering to name a few) have dealt with the problem by . offering higher level courses on alternate years, and temporarily enlarging the sections that need less interaction with the professors. Unfortunately, certain departments haven't been willmg to make these sacrifices, or any attempt to smooth the transition until the new professors . come in. I believe that the.problems of not getting into closed courses should be blamed on the specific departments, and not the faculty or the administration in generaL But what has shocked me the most in previous letters to the editor is that complaint that professors are apathetic, don't care, and won't make an effort to see students out of class. In my experience. I have foWld the opposite to be true. The vast majority of the prolessors I have come in contact with are motivated by an honest desire to teach, and nearly all are willing to juggle their personal schedule in order to help a student. While there are a few bad apples on any campus, I feel that the student-faculty relationship is one of Union's· strengths, and nothing to complain about. I'd like to close with a note to the people whining about the student-faculty ratio. Although the faculty's course load bas dropped, the number of professors hasn't. In the back of the ·academic register there are over 200 faculty members list~d. Compare that to the 2,000 students on campus, and you'll find the real student faculty ratio. Jeff Hirschman '88 Editorial Annoys Professor To the Editor: Three things about your recent editorial \Union's Future\ left me quite annoyed: ( 1) The editorial is full of distorted facts and bad judgments. (2) Spreading your criticisms so widely weakens your credibility on some potentially just complaints. The whining tone doesn't help credibility either. (3) It is irresponsible to create an atmosphere of anger and resentment unless you are quite sure that doing so is justified, and you know what the consequences of such an at- mosphere will be. For example, your claim that \we used to go to classes with 12, 13, and 14 other students, (while) we now find that there are 20, 30, and 40 students in them\ is way off. There were and still are classes of 12 and classes of 40. Mean class size last winter term was 21.3 for Divisions I, II, and III. This term it is 24.1, and part of the increase is due to a surprise increase in the number of students on campus-there are 116 more enrollments in these divisions than there wer~ last winter. Mean class size in Division IV has· dropped significantly. from , last Winter: term to this one. If you felt that some academic departments handled the load reduction transition irresponsibly, you could have done the campus a service by pointing out such particular problems-but now your credibility is damaged. Your attack on faculty availability is similarly weakened by an exaggerated, blanket condemnation of all faculty. Too many of tis know very well how dedicated most of our colleagues are in this respect, and how sharply the situation differs from that at (to use your example )SUNY, Albany. If there are patterns of abuse in faculty availability, you could have done the campus ~ service by pointing them out- but now your credibility is damaged. I'd also like to point out that the majority of faculty who do spend many hours with students outside of class are feeling very unappreciated right now. I do not think it is true that the Union faculty are \quite of- ten ... more inte·rested in pub'lishing than teaching.\ What is true is thatmost faculty were attracted to their jobs at Union because of the op- portunity to teach their subject in an institution which values teaching and, simultaneously, to ·continue to do research in their chose.n areas in a sup- portive atmosphere. Our joy · and interest in our subjects are bound up with our motivation to teach. Union is not a research institution at which lip service alone is paid to good teaching, nor . is it a sleepy backwater where knowledge is viewed as a sort of static and well- categorized inventory of goods to be handed over, like bricks o~ chees, or pumped out like gasoline, for the paying customers. 13~ more responsible in the fut~e, please. Associate Mathematics Sincerely, Bill Zwicker Professor of SPRING TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCeDURES The procedure for spring preregistration will be the same as those used for the winter term. Each student has been assigned a specific time to .preregister. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staf.f. Preregistration materials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a' list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday, Feb. 21. Students should review the , course listing, consult with their advisors, and select the courses they wish. It would then be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. · . Some courses are available only with the perm[ssion of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated on the course I isting by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be . posted by the relevant departments on Wed., Feb. 26. Students should sign the list to indicate an interest. students shoulc;l then return to the department on Fri.., Feb. 28 to find out whether or not they ht;~ve been admitted. Those students admitted to a list course must secure a reservati,~n car~ from the department. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A LIST COURSE WITHOUT SUCH A CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUI,RE SUCH CARDS. Preregistra.tion for an independent study will require written permission of the supervising faculty member. . The date and time for each student's preregi>tration appointment will be pnnted on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students will net· be allowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday, March 7, and no late preregistration will be permitted. Additional course changes may be made during the Drop· Add peridd at the start of the spring term. · Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their \Preregistration Course Request Forni\ (this form must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the courses tMy desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that thei.r form is properly filled out and then see a staff member who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses · they desire are dosed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistra'tion fo~m and then see a staff member. I tis hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten mmutes at the most. students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except graduating seniors, must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the winter term. LETTERS Union Has Problems To the Editors·: The Concordiensis editorial of February 6, 1986 concerning \Union's Future\ raised several valid points. I feel the college community as a whole should address the question of Union's status as a small school and how well the ideal is upheld. Prior to transferring to Union at the beginning of the 84-85 school year I attended a small college to which we· can reasonably compare ourselves. There is no denying that Union has many things to offer, yet some \small college touches\ are missing. Until recently Fox and Davidson lounges were cleared at 11:00 p.m. What is the pur- pose of making campus im- provements if the students are not allowed to enjoy them? There are other instances of limited accessibility to campus facilities which hinder the students' ability to enjoy our campus. The College bookstore seems to disregard the students' academic pursuits by running short of textbooks in many instances. Yet, it is my un- derstanding that the bookstore has a rather restraining bottom line imposed on them by the Trustees of our College, and cannot tie up liquid assets in \excessive\ textbooks. Tuition is both a present and future concern in terms of the College's viability. The editorial raises an outstanding point in this regard. I am glad that some of my colleagues share my concern for the well being of Union College. I hope that in the true spirit of a small college com- munity difficulties can be ad- dressed, viewpoints con- structively exchanged, and intelligent decisions collectively reached. Sincerely, JohnS. Morgan, '86 South Africa To the Editors: My January 30 letter engendered more re~ponses in one issue than I have ever seen one item ever inspire here at Union. This both pleased and saddened me. I was pleased that four people felt so strongly that they actually typed up responses to my letter. However, I was saddened by the myopism and knee jerk sanc- timonious excuses that they responded with, and I must once again return to the keyboard to set the record straight. Several points were ex- pressed in more than one response. Therefore, unlike my critics, I will limit my verbiage to these points . and prove that the quality of my thought definitely outweighs their ex- cessive quantity of random syllables. · The first point concerns the South African economy. It is very easy for a biased press to show a few very poor South African blacks and insinuate that all of them live in similar squalor. But this ignores certain facts. Per capita income for ALL South Africans is higher than that of any other African nation, as is the nation's GNP. This means that the poorest black in South Africa lives like a tribal prince compared to the poorest citizen of Egypt or Kenya, two bastions of African democracy, countries in which their citizens have not seen the inside of a voting booth in decades, if at all. No com- parison is needed between the poorest South African black and the poorest person in Chad . A second point concerns Ethiopia. This country has been labeled a victim of meteorology rather than ideology, hOwever the opposite is true. Since coining to power in a violent 1974 coup, the Marxist govern- ment in Ethiopia's central planning for agriculture has been criminal. This has been exacerbated by the fact that the Ethiopians, like their ideological ancestor Stalin, have been using famine to starve a rebellious province into submission. Stalin, in 1931, created the Ukranian famine, which claimed 6 million lives, but cowed the gaunt survivors into submission. The Ethiopians are following Dr. Stalin's Moscow diet plan to the 1etter, and are using .famine to crush a rebellion in Eritrea, whose gallant freedom fighters are trying desperately to liberate their province from these enlightened souls. Another point concerns the misinterpretation of history by my critics. I must reiterate how every 2oth century revolution has been Communist inspired, and how each one has produced a regime so bad, as in Iran, China and the Soviet Union, that the old regime, with its faults, seemed like the good old days in comparison. The Communists were successful because they duped the peasants into believing that they were the only friends of the downtrodden and oppressed, and each time the Free World looke the other way and allowed these ruthless lia:rs to succeed. This was certainly true in China, where Mao promised in 1949 to give his people a worker's paradise but instead gave them a Cultural Revolution. Lenin, in 1917 overthrew a fledgling democracy, and not the tsar, and his revolution brought on 28 years of Stalin. It was very unfortunate that Wilson's at- tempt to destroy the Bolsheviks was not supported en- thusiastically, due to prevailing global circumstances, and was therefore unsuccessful. This is ths same pattern that is being followed in South Africa. Within six months of establishing black majority rule, someone will come along and declare himself Emperor, . and Pretoria will become another Hanoi. Let's follow Wilson's example and attempt to stop this, rather than Carter's example and enm courage it. A final point concerns those cheap shots taken at myself and Brian Kelly in which we were libellously called l'acists and other unsavory epithets. I am not someone who is so callous that I could give insensitivity lessons to a Nazi, but rather, I envision myself as a political surgeon out to correct a ter- minal liberal ailment known as the bleeding heart, before the patient suffers a fatal hemhorrage. And speaking of the heart, a Happy Valentine's Day to all of my critics. Sincerely, PaulSchop

CONCORDIENS/S, February 13, 1986 Page 11 In Defense of Faculty To the Editor: I'd like to comment on a vast number of complaints against the faculty that have been printed in Concordiensis over the past few weeks. I have read about unreasonably large -Classes, courses that were impossible to get into, a scandalously high student· faculty ratio, and apathetic faculty members who don't care about their students. Yet I have seen remarkably few specifics regarding these subjects, and I'd like to say a few words in defense of the faculty. The faculty's workload was recently lowered to ap- proximately equal other colleges and universities on the same level as Union. Previous to this, when Union and the other colleges were making offers to a professor they both wanted, Union was at an ex- treme disadvantage. Both schools were offering similar salaries, but at Union that professor would have much more class work to do, leaving less time for preparation, research, or just plain free time. By lowering this workload, Unien can impreve its bids to incoming professors and thereby raise the level of education here. This puts the Departments at Uniontemporarily in a difficult position of having not enough professors to teach the c0urses previously offered. From reading your previous letters to the editor, it seems many people found it impossible to get into the courses they wanted. Luckily for me, I dicln't have this problem, and neither did most ef the people in the courses I've been taking. It seems that certain Dt:partments (such as Mathematics, Computer Science, and Engineering to name a few) have dealt with the problem by offering higher level courses on alternate years, and temporarily enlarging the sections that need less interaction with the professors. Unfortunately, certain departments haven't been willing to mak:e these sacrifices, or any attempt to smooth the transition until the new professors . come in. I believe that the problems of not getting into closed courses should be blamed on the specific departments, and not the faculty or the administration in general. But what has shocked me the most in previous letters t0 the editor is that complaint that professors are apathetic, don't care, and won't make an effort to see stl:ldents out of class. In my experience. I have found the opposite to be true. The vast majority of the prolessors I have come in contact with are motivated by an honest desire to teach, and nearly all are willing to juggle their personal schedule in order to help a student. While there are a few bad apples on any campus, I feel that the student-faculty relationship is one of Union's · strengths, and nothing to complain about. I'd like to close with a note to the people whining about the student-faculty ratio. Although the faculty's course load has dropped, the number of professors hasn't. In the back of the academic register there are over 200 faculty members liste.d. Compare that to the 2,000 students on campus, and you'll find the real student faculty ratio. Jeff Hirschman '88 Editorial Annoys Professor To the Editor: Three things about your recent editorial \Union's Future\ left me quite annoyed: ( 1) The editorial is full of distorted facts and bad judgments. ( 2) Spreading your criticisms so widely weakens your credibility on some potentially just complaints. The whining tone doesn't help credibility either. (3) It is irresponsible to create an atmosphere of anger and resentment unless you are quite sure that doing so is justified, and you know what the consequences of such an at- mosphere will be. For example, your claim that \we used to go to classes with 12, 13, and 14 other students, (while) we now find that there are 20, 30, and 40 students in them\ is way off. There were and still are classes of 12 and classes of 40. Mean class size last winter term was 21.3 for Divisions I, II, and III. This term it is 24.1, and part of the increase is due to a surprise increase in the number of students on campus-there are 116 more enrollments in these divisions than there were last winter. Mean class size in Division IV has dropped significantly from last Winter term to this one. If you felt that some academic departments handled the load reduction transition irresponsibly, you could have done the campus a service by pointing out such particular problems--but now your credibility is damaged. Your attack on faculty availability is similarly weakened by an exaggerated, blanket condemnation of all faculty. Too many of tis know very well how dedicated most of our colleagues are in this respect, and how sharply the situation differs from that at (to use your example)SUNY, Albany. If there are patterns of abuse in faculty availability, you could have done the campus a service by pointing them out- but now your credibility is damaged. I'd also like to point out that the majority of faculty who do spend many hours with students outside of class are feeling very unappreciated right now. I do not think it is true that the Union faculty are \quite of- ten ... more interested in publishing than teaching.'' What is true is that most faculty were attracted to their jobs at Union because of the op- portunity to teach their subject in an institution which values teaching and, simultaneously, to continue to do research in their chosen areas in a sup- portive atmosphere. Our joy · and interest in our subjects are bound up with our motivation to teach. Union is not a research institution at which lip service alone is paid to good teaching, nor is it a sleepy backwater where knowledge is viewed as a sort of static and well- categorized inventory of goods to be handed over, like bricks of chees, or pumped out like gasoline, for the paying cusfomers. B~ more responsible in the future, please. Associate Mathematics Sincerely, Bill Zwicker Professor of SPRING TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES The procedure for spring preregistration will be the same as those use_d for _the w_inter terr~. Each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. Prereg1strat•on w•ll occur 1n Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Preregistration materials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a' list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday, Feb. 21. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisors, and select the courses they wish. It would then be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. Some courses are available only with the perm iss ion of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be . posted by the relevant departments on Wed., Feb. 26. Students should sign the list to indicate an interest. Students should then return to the department on Fri., Feb. 28 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those students admitted to a list course must secure a reservation card from the department. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT SUCH A CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for an independent study will require written permission of the supervising faculty member. . The date and time for each student's preregi :;tration appointment will be pnnted on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students will not be allowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday, Ma_rch 7, and no late preregistration will be permitted. Additional course changes may be made dunng the Drop Add period at the start of the spring term. . . students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their \Prereg1strat10n Course Request Form\ (this form must be brought to preregistration). Once inside :hey sh~uld verify that the courses they desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that the1r form IS properly filled out and then see a staff member who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistrat·ion fo~m and then see a staff member. I tis hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten m.nutes at the most. . t students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except graduating sen1~rs, mus give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. March graduates should inform the Off1ce of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the winter term. LETTERS Union Has Problems To the Editors: The Concordiensis editorial of February 6, 1986 concerning \Union's Future\ raised several valid points. I feel the college community as a whole should address the question of Union's status as a small school and how well the ideal is upheld. Prior to transferring to Union at the beginning of the 84-85 school year I attended a small college to which we can reasonably compare ourselves. There is no denying that Union has many things to offer, yet some \small college touches\ are missing. Until recently Fox and Davidson lounges were cleared at 11:00 p.m. What is the pur- pose of making campus im- provements if the students are not allowed to enjoy them? There are other instances of limited accessibility to campus facilities which hinder the stl:ldents' ability to enjoy our campus. The College bookstore seems to disregard the students' academic pursuits by running short of textbooks in many instances. Yet, it is my un- derstanding that the bookstore has a rather restraining bottom line imposed on them by the Trustees of our College, and camwt tie up liquid assets in \excessive\ textbooks. Tuition is both a present and future concern in terms of the College's viability. The editorial raises an outstanding point in this regard. I am glad that some of my colleagues share my concern for the well being of Union College. I hope that in the true spirit of a small college com- munity difficulties can be ad- dressed, viewpoints con- structively exchanged, and intelligent decisions collectively reached. Sincerely, JohnS. Morgan, '86 South Africa To the Editors: My January 30 letter engendered more responses in one issue than I have ever seen one item ever inspire here at Union. This both pleased and saddened me. I was pleased that four people felt so strongly that they actually typed up responses to my letter. However, I was saddened by the myopism and knee jerk sanc- timonious excuses that they responded with, and I must once again return to the keyboard to set the record straight. Several points were ex- pressed in more than one response. Therefore, unlike my critics, I will limit my verbiage to these points and prove that the quality of my thought definitely outweighs their ex- cessive quantity of random syllables. The first point concerns the South African economy. It is very easy for a biased press to show a few very poor South African blacks and insinuate that all of them live in similar squalor. But this ignores certain facts. Per capita income for ALL South Africans is higher than that of any other African nation, as is the nation's GNP. This means that the poorest black in South Africa lives like a tribal prince compared to the poorest citizen of Egypt or Kenya, two bastions of African democracy, countries in which their citizens have not seen the inside of a voting booth in decades, if at all. No com- parison is needed between the poorest South African black and the poorest person in Chad . A second point concerns Ethiopia. This country has been labeled a victim of meteorology rather than ideology, however the opposite is true. Since coming to power in a violent 1974 coup, the Marxist govern- ment in Ethiopia's central planning for agriculture has been criminal. This has been exacerbated by the fact that the Ethiopians. like their ideological ancestor Stalin, have been using famine to starve a rebellious province into submission. Stalin, in 1931, created the Ukranian famine, which claimed 6 million lives, but cowed the gaunt survivors into submission. The Ethiopians are following Dr. Stalin's Moscow diet plan to the letter, and are using famine to crush a rebellion in Eritrea, whose gallant freedom fighters are trying desperately to liberate their province from these enlightened souls. Another point concerns the misinterpretation of history by my critics. I must reiterate how every 20th century revolution has been Communist inspired, and how each one has produced a regime so bad, as in Iran, China and the Soviet Union, that the old regime, with its faults, seemed like the good old days in comparison. The Communists were successful because they duped the peasants into believing that they were the only friends of the downtrodden and oppressed, and each time the Free World looke the other way and allowed these ruthless liars to succeed. This was certainly true in China, where Mao promised in 1949 to give his people a worker's paradise but instead gave them a Cultural Revolution. Lenin, in 1917 overthrew a fledgling democracy, and not the tsar, and his revolution brought on 28 years of Stalin. It was very unfortunate that Wilson's at- tempt to destroy the Bolsheviks was not supported en- thusiastically, due to prevailing global circumstances, and was therefore unsuccessful. This is ths same pattern that is being followed in South Africa. Within six months of establishing black majority rule, someone will come along and declare himself Emperor, and Pretoria will become another Hanoi. Let's follow Wilson's example and attempt to stop this, rather than Carter's example and en- courage it. A final point concerns those cheap shots taken at myself and Brian Kelly in which we were libellously called racists and other unsavory epithets. I am not someone who is so callous that I could give insensitivity lessons to a Nazi, but rather, I envision myself as a political surgeon out to correct a ter- minal liberal ailment known as the bleeding heart. before the patient suffers a fatal hemhorrage. And speaking of the heart, a Happy Valentine's Day to all of my critics. Sincerely, PaulSchop

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Febr11ary 13,1986 WW 111111111111 I Ill 111111 l IIIIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIItlltlltlllllllllll tiiiiiiiii!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIII!IIIIllllltllllllllllllllllllllliiJIIIIItlltiU II IIIIIIJI!IIIIfllll!flllllflllllllllfllflll II HI !I !II IIIII II I 1111111 I 11111111 II IIIII II IIIII IIIII rllfl! I II J II II II 1!1111111111 I I It! l.lllllllllllllllllll II lillll' = Final Examination Schedule = - - = Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is ~ the code of the buildings to be used. · AB-Arts Building HU-Humanities Building S8--Social Sciences Bldg. BH--Bailey Hall N-North Wing, Sci./Eng. ctr. SH-8tein- metz Hall . ACC.;OiO-. Financial AccoWlting I- ... R. Hurley-BH 207 § BU-Butterfield Hall PY-Psychology Laboratory ARS-040-. Introduction To Music, Part l-H. A. Wilson-AB 210 ~ ARS-071-Medieval Art & Architecture-· C. DeVegvar-AB 215 5 CSC-077-Data Structures-L. Spallholz-N 116 = a , r~ L 1·· , EC0-012..02, 03-. Introduction To Economics-H. Fried-:SS 112 fjj ~All ~ EC0-042-Macroeconomic Theory & Policy-T. Kershner-8S 113 § A M . EC0-138-Quantitative.MethodslnEcon.-E. Motahar-ss 010 ~ - ~. (\\». · @ · EGL-045-Philosophical Fiction-F. Gado-HU 116 · ~ - BI().()18-Intro To Biology II-M. Frohlich, F. Lambert---88016 ELL-033-Energy I-W. Aubrey-N014 ::;: BI0..()62-· World Agriculture-P. Tobiessen, c. George-BH 207 MTH-127-Numerical Analysis-E. Shelly-BH 106 ~ - BI0-144-Cytology-G. Smith-N222 PHL-32A-Modern Philo: Descartes-Leibniz-.J. Ludwig HU213 ;;; CEH-132-Reinforced Concrete Design-M. Mafi-BU 104 PSC-051-American Foreign Policy-C. Gati-8S 115 ~ CHM-142-Chemical Instrumentation-T. Werner-N 014 PSY -030-Personality-D. Spring-PY 204 5 EC0-012-01-Introduction To Economics- T. Kershner-88012 EGL-020-Major English Authors II-J. McCord-HU 114 . SOC-038-Deviant Behavior-H. Murray-sS 014 = EGL-003-Early Romantic literature-H. Freund-HU 014 SOC-157-8ociology Of Work & Occupations-8. Lyng-8S 110 = ESC-010-02-· Mechanics I-¥. Lee-BU106 . STA-010-IntroStatistics-J.Schnlee-BH203 . = ESC-020-Mechanics II-F. Panlilio N 210 - ESC-033-01, 02-· Fluid Systems Analysis-T. Jewell-BU 109 _ ESC-048-01i~~~~nductor Devices & Circuits-E. Hassib- Tuesday, Maret, 18 _ FRN-010-BasicFrenchi-P.LeCalvez-HUllO 2 00 4 00 p M GRK-011-Principles of Greek II-T. Hofmeister-8S 21? : • : • ~ _ HST -050-\Western Imperialism-. . E. Hansen-8S 112 ::;: LAT -011-Principles of Latin II-C. Sorum-HU 119 = MTil:-140-Linear Algebra-K. Rosenthal-BH 104 BI0-024-Genetics & Evolution-H. Butzel, J. Boyer-8S 016 - PHY-013-02-Intro To Physics II-K. Schick-N 012 CER-143-Foundations& Construction-H. G. Harlow_:_ BU 300 · PSC-045-Chinese Political Behavior-D. Thurston-8S 115 CHM-154-Physical Chemistry III-D. Hayes-N 016 , PSC-002-Judicial Politics-W. Daniels-BH 205 CSC-Q34-Cobol & Information Processing-T. Schwarz-N 014 - PSY-010-02-A First Course In Psychology-C. W. Huntley- ESC-026-01-Thermo&HeatTransfer-J.Shanebrook-N,210 _ py 102 ESC-030-Mechanics Of Deformable Solids-A. Burke-N 210 PSY-02o--stat Methods in Psychology-8. Greenberg-PY 213 HST-141-Age Of De~ocratic Revolution-.. E.Hansen-8S 110 _ SOC-OJ0-01-. Intro To Sociology-T. Weiner---8S 117 MTH-010-Calculus I-A. Taylor-·· BH 102. ~ = SPN-010-Basic Spanish I-K. Krebs-HU 116 MTH:028-01-Probabili:ty-T. Bick-BH 203 - - SPN-011-Basic Spanish II-J. Cisneros-HU 117 02-Probability-J. Barbanel-BH 201 = PHL-144-Political Philosophy-H. Baker-HU 110 - - ~ Moirn.day, March 17 = ~ 2:, .. 4 ~ 00 P GM~ Wednesday, March 19 ~ ANT-012-Prehistory: Origins of Man & Society-M. Dawson- 9 00 11 A M ss 113 : - : . • . • . ~ BI0-162-Intro To Neurobiology-H. Olberg, F. Lambert- HU 019 - CER-128-Structures I-M. Mafi-BU 300 ARS-034-Renaiss. Art & Architecture Pt. I-C. DeVegvar-. - CLS-Oa{}-Greek & Roman Drama in Translation-C. Sorum-. AB 215 - HU 119 BI0-016-Intro. To Biology I-P. Tobiessen, M. Schadler-ss 115 - CSC-011-Programming For Soc. Sciences-J. Castleberry- BI0-160-Histology & Organology-B. Boyer, w. Roth-BH 205 = BU 106 . CER-153-Environmental Engineering II-P. Snow-BU 300 = EC0-031-Microeconomic Analysis-B. Reyilolds~S 117 CLS-022-History Of Rome: The Republic -T. Hofmeister- = ESC-026-02-Thermo & Heat Transfer-P. Rang ana than- BH 205 HU 019 = ESC-()33-03-Fluid Systems Analysis-J. Shanebrook-N 222 EC0-039-Public Finance-D. Schaffer-ss 010 = FRN-138-Survey Of French Literature I-M. Barsoum-HU 116 EGL-026-Tragedy-P. Heinegg-HU 114 - GE0-01>1-0ceanography-H. Zimmerman HU 117 - EGL-056---8hakespeare After 1600-H. Freund-HU 115 ;;; GER-133-Mastering Written German-s. Kellenter-HU 014 ESC-010-01-· Mechanics I-P. W~ss-· BU 106 HST-012-Prehistory: Origins of Man & Society-M. Dawson- ESC-018-. Intro To Digital Computers-G. Williams-BH207 § SS 113 FRN-011-Basic French II-..J. Weinstein-HU 117 3 = HST-041-MedievalEurope-8. Sargent-ss 112 FRN-133~1-· Mastering Written F:rench-F. Coppay-HU 110 ~ HST-055-The Soviet Period-s. Berk-SS 016 HST-02~Contemporary America-·M. Jonas-ss 117 § - MER-122-Rob. &Auto. Pro. Sys. & Cam.-R. Guntur-N 210 HST-047-England To 1688-S. Sargent-sS112 ~ MTH-18-Intro. Logic &Set Theory-A. Taylor-BH 203 HST-071-Modern History Of Middle East-8. Berk---8S 016 · 5 - :_;;;;;; MTH-136-Real Variable Theory 1-W. Zwicker-BH 104 MER-030-Dynamics Of Linear Systems-· M. Rivera-N 210 ~~ PHL-020-Classical Logic-s. Kaminksy-HU 115 MTH:-130-Complex Analysis-8. Niefield-BH 203 - ===_==_ PHY -013-04-Intro To Physics II-K. Schick--N 014 PHL-070-History & Philo of'Sci. I-J. Ludwig-_ HU 213 ====_ 5 =:: PHY -046-Space Technology-D. Peak, L. Baksay-SH 106 PHY -013-03-Intro To Physics II-K. Schick-N 012 PSC-012-02-Contemporary International Politics-C. Gati-· PHY -036-Theoretical Physics-D. Peak-N 222 SS 115 , PHY-134-Physical Optics-C. Jones-N 016 == ~ PSY -010-04-A First Course in Psychology--H. Foley- PY 102 PSC-011-Contemporary American Politics-J. Board-· HU 112 ~ ~ . PSY -046-Intro To Psychobiology-B. Markiewicz-PY 113 PSC-012-01-. Corltemporary International Pol.-C. Borwn--88 113 § := SOC-022-Soc. Problems & Soc. Policy-H. Murray-ss 012 PSY -010-03-A First Course in Psychology-B. Fletcher-PY 113 § ; SOC-163-History of Sociological Thought-S. Lyng-8S 010 RUS-011-Basic Russian i:I-N. Jernakoff......SSllO § ::= 111111111 II If II If II f!l I I I II II tl! II II I !I I II !I I I ffl! I IIIII filii II I! II II 11111111111 II !Ill Jll II llllllllllllllllllllllll! lll!lllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ,llfllllllllfllllllllli IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIII llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllr ~ ,

r CONCORDIENSIS, Feb!'uar;.' 13, 1986 Page 13 ~11111111111111111111111111111111111 !lllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIU II II 111m llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli i liiiiiiiiiUIII Ulllilli i llllllllllllillllil I lllllllli Iii i I IIi I illillllll I IIIII! illliillll i IIIIi 11111111111 i I iII 1111 iIi I I 1 I 1 i I i1 i lil1 I~ = Final Examination Schedule : - - :: Winter Term 1986 ~ = Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is : ~ the code of the buildings to be used. CHM-Ol 2 -Fundamental Chemistry II ~ - AB-Arts Building HU-Humamties Building. SS-Social · Sec.l-R. Schaefer-BU 204 = Sciences Bldg. . 2--D. Katahira-BU 204 = - BH-Bailey Hall N-· North Wing, Sci./Eng. Ctr. SH--8tein .. · 3-D.Katahira-BU204 :: metz Hall . EGL-023-American ~hortStory-F. Gad()-.-HU 115 BU-ButterfieldHall PY-PsychologyLaboratory ~~~~~· British & American Poetry-W. _ . *ESC:.V22-01-science of Engin. Materials-F. Milillo-BH 201 - e ·esday, March 1~ Rus-~at-~~!:~~~i::ri:na:.J!'~~so~':?1) 7 . 2 ~ p GMo *ESC-V22-03-8cience of Engin. Materials-T. Auten-BU 3~ ~ _ - - = = - ~ CER-014-Bullding Construction-H. G. Harlew-BU 300 ~ -- ECO:l~lnternationalEcono:rnics,......E.D. Phau})-SS 113 _ *GER-011-01--\BasicGermani-sraif•Taylor-- HU112 JFILllail3lw.· \ f\)fJI~R~cr;Jl] ~ll ;;;;; MTH-012-. · Calculus II el , = ~ Sec.1- .. J. Muckenfuss-BH 207 9} ~ }Jl ~ @@ - = 2-J. Muckenfuss~BH 207 = ~ 3-T. Bick-· BH 106 ___: ;;;;;;; 4-L. Tatevossian-BH 102 = - 5-W. Fairchild.:_BU 204 CSC-040-01, 02-Machine & AssemblyLanguage-F. Federighi-N == 116 - = MTH-014-Calculus III EC0-036-Financial Markets-L. Sage-SS 115 = Sec. 1-W. Stone-BU 1 06 . EC0-145-· Managerial Economics-J. Kenney-SS 014 - = 2 -E. Gillette-BH 1 08 HEB-011-Basic Hebrew II-D. Heckelman-HU 112 - = 3-A. Seiken-BH 104 LLR-156-Bio-Eco Aspects of Health Tech.-T. Styles, J. Lam- 4-J. Coffey-BH 203 = 5-S. Niefield-BH 201 brinos-BH 205 - - MTH-02()-,.Math Methods for Secial Sciences I PSY -049-· Psychotherapy li-T. Dowling-PY 113 -- . F . hild s· u B PSY -003-HUman Relations II-J. Girdner-PY 204 =-- Sec.l-. · W. · atrc.; · -:;:- ·. · 2 \' 4 · · ----· ·- · · -.~- ·- - SOC-010-02-Intro. To Sociology-· I. Kaplan-SS 117 - 2-W. Fairchild-. - BU 204 - 3-K. Zimmerman.-....BH205 SOG-152,.--.Sociology Of Education-. T. Weiner----88010 _ - - - - = MTHm030-0rdin. Differential Equations-. W. Zwicker:- BU 109 - - _ PSY -062-· Hum~n Relations I-J. Girdner-. PY 204 - *GERll-02-· Basic German I-Kellenter-HU 014 - - - - ::= == Thursday, Ma:rcb 20 Friday 9 March 21 9 O nll 0\ A M - 2@ ® P M ==· : ~ :··v (!)··'\ 'f) 0 • o.·~0 = - ~ CHM-032-01-0rganic Chemistry II-McGahey-HU 019 CSC-012-Programming For Natrl. Sciences-L. Almstead-N 012 = CHM-032-02-. Organic Chemistry II---Quaal-HU 019 EER .. l44-01, 02-Communication Systems I-M. Rudko-BU 204 - EGL-071-· Lit. of Irish Renaissance-A. Frazier-. HU 114 ESC-031-01-Electrical Circuits & Devices-G. Branch-BU 109 - ESC-011-01-Engineering Graphics-A. Bur ke-N 222 02-Electrical Circuits& Devices-J. Mallick-N 014 = ESC-011-02-Engineering Graphics-. Y.K. Lee-BU 300 LAT-143-Roman Drama-T. Hofmeister-HU 117 _ == FRN .. 133-02-Mastering Written French-P. LeCalvez-HlJ 117 PHY-011-01-Intro To Physics 1-L. Baksay-SH 106 GE0-050--Special Topics in Geology-J. Hollocher-BU 204 02,03-Intro To Physics 1-8. Maleki-HU 019 ~ GER-010-Basic German I-8traif- Taylor-HU 112 PSC-020-Bocial Data Analysis-P. F. Hartwig-88 117 _ . LLR-050-Special ropics In Geology-J. Hollocher-BU204 PSY-03R-Developmental Psychology-8. Benack-PY 213 ~ _ PHL-012-· Philosophical Problems-R. Baker-HU 115 SOC-062-Social Data Analysis--\P. F. Hartwig-88 117 ~ - PSC-050-. Theories Of International Relations-C. Brown---88 117 ~ = = = PSC-069-Presidency And Congress-· B. Klunk-SS 012 ~ - - ;;;; SPN-139-Modern Hispanic Short St()ry-K. Krebs HU 014 5 = - - lrlbl® ff®llil@Willrug ~®Hllif§®§ ; ViJrnnnn~P~t?lllcm\\.r hZ\JH @It/(()Jhl ®(ID llil~W® CC:©IITffiiUillCIDIID ®%081Iffi1l§ :: ~ , ~ illl:~ ~~~.· ~~l.v~ ~~~ . r; 1 • \WTiltiffi ~Un® ®W®Iillfiml)E tD1Jhrfi§fi®!ill ~ ; kJ e \llAlb ?~ o \UI\W LC o -~ W 11 o _ ~ CHM-010-Fundamental Chemistry I MONDAY, MARCH 17--4:30-6:110 P.M. CSC-135-01 Operating : 5 Sec. 1-C. Scaife-SS 115 Systems-E. Reilly-· HU 115 §§ ~ 2-C. Weick-SS115 MONDAY, MARCH 17-4:30-6:30 P.M. ESC-48- :: := 3-C. Weick-SS 115 02.....SemiconductorsDev. &Cir.-Y. Chang-BH207 ~ - - - -- - - - - ~ ~ ~ IIIII iii lllllll i I illlllllllllllli i !1i Iii I Iii I :iii llllllllli!l Jill i i IIIII Iii Iii: I ill ill i I liill i i il iliii iii i iii I i li Ill IIIli ill iiI I il Hi illl i ill ill i I I illi iii ill: l i iilil i 1l i1lli I i ill1 iii i llllllllllllll ill II II Uifiiilli:i liiiiillillilllii Ill Wli llii i lililili ilii 11ili lllliilll illlillilllili II iliiliii 1i IIi il i

Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS, February 13, 1986 Apartheid Views Defended To the Editor: I would like to take this time to address a few individuals who finally seemed to have found the time to comment on my article \An Apology to South Africa\ which anoeard in the January 23., 1985 Con- cordiensis. First, I graciously accept Ms. Kimberly Carr's comment that I am a bigot and a prejudiced person. After all, since Ms. Carr has never met me before she should know the real meaning of prejudice. Ms. Carr goes on to state that my article is flowing with misinfermation and misinterpretation, which she has found the time to point out my gross errors by reading the Brand New Columbia Encyclopedia (that is of couse th~ 2nd edition). In her first question she asks, \Come on, is he trying to say that the Whites were the first settlers of Southern Africa?\ and then points out that this is a blatant example of my misrepresen- tation of the facts (as stated by the Brand New Columbia Encyclopedia-2nd edition). She then refers to the Encyclopedia by saying \The Cape of Good Hope . . . the Dutch East India Company established the first permanent white settlement and expelled the native Hottentot and the Bu.shman inhabitants.\ Well maybe they expelled a few of these tribesmen, but they sur.:e as hell found the time of day to share the most common basic international expression of love by intermarrying extensively with these tribesmen. That is the result of the majority of the present day 2.8 million coloreds living in South Africa. As far as Ms. Carr's statement that \radio carbon dating proves there were African settlements in the Transvaal as early as the 5th Century A.D.,\ is, in fact, true. To the Editor: I am terribly disappointed by the appalling attitudes that certain letter writers have adopted with regards to Brian Kelly and his supporter. These writers criticize their in- terpretation of history, but it is you, Miss Mogilnik, dear, who should reread your textbooks. Africa can be compared to an abandoned child left on the doorstep of the richest family in the city. Before European colonization began, the natives were literally swinging from the trees and engaging in such things as intertribal warfare, and the keeping of slaves. The Europeans, like a good These remains are ,probably th~ ancestors of the native Zulu and other tribes. But, Ms. Carr does not seem to understand my point that the Whites did not encounter permanent set- tlements until they (Boers) migrated hundreds of miles northeast into the Transvaal. To answer her first question (according to the Co•lumbia Encyclopedia 2nd edition) I would say yes, the Whites were the first to establish a per- manent settlement of the Cape of Good Hope. My most outlandish presentation of misinformation according to Ms. Carr is that those 24 million Blacks who are represented by ten or mGJJe different tribes and the 2.8 million coloreds who in- termarried with the African- ners and British and the 900,000 Indians who were brought in as the present American Chinese were to supply the neeqs of labor by the railroads and mines, are in fact united because of the color of their skin! My God, if only the Anglo- Saxon Americans were united with the Prussians, Germans, Italians, and Russians, and if only the Americans .of the north were united by the Americans of the south, and so on and so forth, there would be fewer holes in Arlington and Get- tysburg cemeteries. Second, I would like to ad- dress Ms. Nina Mogilnik. She claiJD.S that the American RevolUtionary War is exactly the same as that of the ten different tribes fighting against the Whites in South Africa. She states, \We fought a war against the British to obtain our freedom: Blacks in South Africa are fighting that same fight within their own country .. . , \ I ask Ms. Mogilnik who fought the British to obtain freedom? Washington, Jef- ferson, and others who just happened to own hundreds of Black slaves, that's wbo! But parent, put a stop t() this bar- barism when they adopted them. Also like a good parent, they provided their child with everything it could possibly desire, which in this case meant schools~ roads, power generating facilities. railroads, cities, churches, and, of course, peace and a market for their vast reserves of raw materials, and with this the hasis for a modern economy and jobs. The analogy can be carried further. Like any chiid; Africa reached adolesence, and like any teenager that has been spoiled, it rebelled against its ·parents by taking up with the worst people that it could find. Like the 15 year\olcl daughter did the American Blacks receive freedom when we defeated the British? Not for almost 100 years, and When we \freed\ the ·slaves what did they get besides employment by plantation owners whose labor costs probably wer.e cheaper after the slaves were freed. Yes, Ms. Mogilnik, there are malnourished children in South Africa both white and black and it is a very sad sad thing to have in an industrialized country as weH as in all the third world· countires like Ethiopia. But, please don't forget those hun- dreds of thousands of children ·in this country, as industrialized as we are, who have trouble surviving every day. One question that I would like you to answer is: When you traveled to South Africa did such areas as Soweto remind you of parts of the Bronx, South Chicago and Mississippi? Are the poor in these and other cities any better off than some of those living in South Africa? They have freedom sqrely, but do they have equality! Several years ago I visited a vast portion of the African continent. I saw political per- version and unbelievable poverty as well as beauty and proud heritages. I look forward to going back to Africa and especially visit South Africa to judge them based on their history and especially the complex dilemma that they now face. I just hope that they do not follow the path of Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe by ex- pelling the Whites, installing a one party communist state, and diminishing all that both the Blacks and Whites could have shared in the end. We must understand the situation in South Africa and help them constructively work to establish a country that is better off and more equal than our own. Brian Kelly who joins a motorcycle gang, it also joined an unsavory gang of thugs, namely the USSR, Cuba, and East Germany. Unlike some parents, who might disown a child for rebelling, America has tried to reason with it and guide it away from its undeveloped instincts for judging human nature, and seeing that it eventually develops into the image of its parent, and open democracy with equality for alL This is what last week's critics missed, and this denial of history and of this analogy is most criminal, and it is why this \Gang of Four\ should not be allowed to raise children. RoyL. Martin, Jr. COMMENTARIES Priorities Questioned ByP.AULSCHOP I, like those of you who are reading tbis commentary, was greatly saddened by the recent Challenger tragedy. Even after the 37th showing of the videotape, it was still powerful enough to move one to tears. However, if one wishes to examine the mentality that has prevailed in the Shuttle program's funding, especially in the last 20 years, one finds that this calamity is doubled in its tragedy, because it was so easily avoidable. The prevailing mentality in Washington over the past two decades, even under Reagan, :has been to reduce military spending wherever possible. While I agree wholeheartedly that we should be careful in· avoiding defense cost overruns, I disagree equally vehemently that this can be done with ex- perimental technology. Space, ' since the 1940's, has been correctly perceived as an arena for military operations, and therefore the Shuttle is a military vehicle, just like the F- 16. However, it is also an ex- perimental vehicle, since we have never developed such a vehicle beore. Because it is experiemental, one cannot cut costs on developing it, because to do so leads inevitably to cost overruns and unsafe vehicles, with resultant fatal accidents. For example, say you have a project to build a Shuttle for $1 billion, which uses the best theories a.vailabl~, theories which· hav.e . been proven . feasible and safe in the laboratory. Under the prevailing mentality, you are told to build your Shuttle for $500 million. Next, you spend an additional $400 million on research to make your half- priced Shuttle feasible, and when you add in the $600 million in delays caused by the ad- ditional research, you get an unsafe $1.5 billion Shuttle. Half a billion saved becomes a billion wasted, plus countle'ss casualties. This is what hap- pened to the Shuttle program, and to Challenger in particular. This mentality resulted in years of delays. (The Shuttle was originally intended to make its maiden voyage in 1977, but it did not fly until 1981.) It also cost seven lives, since one of the ''cost saving devices\ were the solid rocket boosters which caused the explosion~ and which were not a part of the original \inefficient\ design. I mentioned previously that our space program dates back to the '40s. One might ask how a zinc plated vacuum tube culture could seriously coasider a space program. But it was this technology that built the H- Bomb. It was also a technology that would grow to meet the challenge of constructing the X- 20 Dyna-Soar, the grandfather of Challenger, that would ferry astronauts and supplies to permanently manned military space stations, without the handicap of a budget axe. We did fly an X-15 to 300,000 feet, or about 60 miles before LBJ, in his myopic wisdom, cancelled the program so that he could waste money on his Great Society social . welfare programs, which · only en- couraged dependency and perpetrated poverty, when money spent on the x..:2o program would have spawned new technology and new products and industries, like the personal computer, which would have permanently ended poverty. What can we learn from our error? First, that we must redefine our priorities on military spending so that we first develop th~ best vehicle using the best technology, and then later, when we have ex~ panded our knowledge develop less expensive alterntives. Second,· we must not engage irl useless soul searching such as funding studies to determine if our children have been traumatized by this tragedy. Science fiction has always shown space to be a dangeroqs place. The Starship Enterprise was bristling with weapons, and each episode featured the use of at lea~t one. Therefore, the Shuttle incident is no more than a tragic example of life imitating art. If we do not readjust our spending policies we are likely to produce a Shuttle that can take off flawlessly ( gur investigation into the explosion will ensure this) but that will crash on landing, and explode into flames just as dramatically as it did on lift off. · ·A Lesson Learned By DAVE MARIN In last week's Concordiensis Professor Scaife was quoted as saying that the explosion of the space shuttle makes you realize just how tenum,ts life is. Many people experience this at one ' time or another, but very rarely .---------------------------------:------, are we collectively subjected to attendance at lectures and performances, struggling clubs and activities, acceptance .of mediocrity, lack of creativity and spontaneity, low en- thusiasm and attendace at sports events, pre- professionalism, interest in grades and not in learning, maintenance of the status quo, complaint without resolution, distrust which is easier than accommodation, avoidance which is easier than action. Chora 1 Group to Start If you love to sing, you have a.n opportunity to do so right here on campus, starting February 19. The group IS open to the campus community (staff, faculty, administrat!on), and will meet eyery oth~r Wed- nesday at 12:00- 1:00 p.m. in the Memonal Chapel. For more 1nformat1on, c.all Marguerite Potochney at Graduate & Continuing Studies Office,.6288. such a realization. Professor Scaife suggests that \Maybe as a result some people are going to live life a little fuller\ and I think that such an observation has suggestions for us as a .campus community. The non-realization of this · manifests itself in the lack of commitment in our academic and social lives as students, teachers, and ad- ministrators-as a community. It shows itself in the lack of This is not intended to be an admonition and should not be taken as such. Rather it is merely a suggestion that in the context of last week's tragedy we have a unique opportunity to think about how we are living our lives-not after we graduate or become full professors-but today. All Letters tp the Editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters ,nust be signed. Names . r,a~r.~~~~Y·~.iJJ,J)~~1,,~,t:l.~~~~t~~,~J~~~·.:.·· ·.-.·_- ... ! ii

CONCORDIENSJS, Ft!hruary 13, 1986 Page 15 . - . . .LATE ;NIG.HT 'BITES THURSDAY & SU'N.DAY Food Service's ''Late Night Bites\ began in Hale House on Sunday, Feb. 2, with a new THE ARTS twist: an open ''jam sess.ion'' for- aU campus musicians, plus desserts and cOffee for aU who come down to p.lay, listen, or just hang out. Jazz musician, Jeff Presslaff, wiU be. on hand to help things along, though the music will not be limited to jazz, and it is hoped that all kinds of musicians will join in. The atmosphere will be warm and friendly with candle-lit tables and an open log fire. The Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts \Late Night Bites'' wHI go· from 9:30 tiU 12:30 every Sunday evening through the end of term. Singers and instrumentalists are encouraged to \sit-in and of course, all are invited to come and enjoy the ·food, the sounds, and the at- mosphere. Hot Apple Pie Hot Apple Pie Ala Made Carrot Cake .75 1.15 1.25 1.50 1.75 1.30 1.15 1.75 1.00 1.25 Christie Play the at Egg Cheese Cake _ Chocolate Creme Pie German Choco.late Cake Walnut Creme Cake · Brownie Ala Mode Ice Cream Sundaes Coffee .45 Tea.45 Hot Cocoa .55 Reeses Pieces Health Bar Crunch Chocolate Milk .45 Soda .45 Herb Tea .55 ~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~ i \Panhellenic I. I ·Cabaret Contest\ i ~ = = .= ~ February 27th ~ ~ -- 1 from 9 p.m.-11 p.m. S = .;; ;; Auditions will be held on: E Feb. 12th from 4 p.m.-7:30p.m. Guest Spots for Professors ~ Prizes ~ i , Get Your i ~ Registration forms ~ ~ e : in now! ~ ~lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllijlllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllll~ ByTODOIMMICK \Verdict is a play with an idea. Christie had. a notion in her head that she wanted us to look at... that there is great danger in being overly prin- cipled and as a result dogmatic in thinking and living,\ said director John Vreek about this play. · Agatha Christie's \Verdict\ was the latest per- fonnanceat the Egg in Albany. An unusual work for Christie, this play seemed to be much more of an attempt to create character and em()tion instead of her traditional complex mystery with murder and suspense. Certainly there was suspense, but not aoout who was the killer, rather abo11t personal decisions and emoti()n. As Mr. Vreek stated, the central theme is not a murder, itis a person's whole way of life tnat even- tually resulted in rnurder. We even knew who the murderer is during the first act. Such a twist is unusual for Christie, the author of ll3 detective stories. The story circles around one Professor Karl Hendryk (Joel Swetow), a German immigrant teaching in Englcmd. From the first we are am112ed at his desire to do the correct thing in every moral decision A student admits to stealing one of the professor's valuable books, and the professor smiles and tells the student to make sure he has a good time with thi! money. Then he turns do\Wn a rich 111-tJIIIIIIIUJIHIIlgJIIIIIII!lllllllttlllllllUIIIIIIIUIIHIIUtllllllittiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIHIIliiiiUJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-'IIIIIhllllllltlllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUilllll This Week in the Arts February 14-0n Campus-Winteriest/Valentine's Dance . Featuring-The Romantics Opening band-Pale Faces, Field House, 9 p.m. Off Campus-Mel Torme and Jack Jones-Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m. Off Campus-Good Bye Freddy-Capitol Repertory Theatre, 4:30 and 9 p.m. thruFeb. 28 February 15-0n Campus-Gospei/BLAS Performance-Mem()rial Chapel 2 p.m. February 16-0n Campus-snow Sculpture Contest · On Campus-Late Night Bites Jam Session, Hale House, 9:30p.m. February 17-0ff Campus-schools Out-Museum's In-Endangered Species by Kuperberg and Morris Movement Theatre, New York State Museum, 11 a.m.-2 p.m. February 18-0f£ Campus-LoverBoy,with opening band the Hl)oters, Glens' . Falls Civic Center, 7:30p.m. February 19-0n Campus-Rolando GuDlermoprieto, Minerva Hour, SS016, 11:30a.m. , February 20-Qn-Campus-Late Night Bites Jam Session, Hale House, 9:30 11111--·~lltilfllltJMIIIIIilltllltttllllltti~IIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIN-...111-IIIIatllllltllllllltlllllltnnllllllltii!IMhllflllllllllllllllllllflllfllllltllt \-\'so.,..,.~ .... ~~ .......... ~ ••• .,.,.~., •·••••M•,,...,._.,,.. .. .,. ..• student for two penniless ones because he thinks that they have a better chance for real learning. The .professor lives with two people, his invalid wife Anya (Betsy Normile) and his wife's beautiful cousin Lisa Doletzsky (Allison Janney). Anya has long been crippled by a disabling disease, and has continually become depressed and unhappy. Lisa cares for the husband and wife and con- tinually tries to get the professor to do things like take more money, stand up for himself, and be more humanly, well, selfish. Into their home comes Helen Rollander (Jeanne Vigliante), a rich, arrogant young woman who insists on being taught lessons by the professor. At first Hendryk refuses, but when Helen's rich father offers to buy a new cure for Anya the professor submits. Helen begins lessons, and we quickly realiZe \ that she doesn't want to see more literature, she wants to see more Hendryk. She is audacious enough to do tinue to follow his morals or his heart .. As Lisa said: \You put ideals first, and not people ... people matter, I matter!\ The problem with this· play is not the production, which was extremely well done. The stage and choreography were ap- propriate, and the actors worked well with what they had. The main problem is that while Agatha Christie wrote a great mystery, she could not write a convincing character sketch. At times, the dialogue was not as effective as it might have been. Joel Swetow said \I felt myself sometimes slipping into melodrama to get the character acmss and I don't feel that that is right.\ In spite of slight structural imperfections, however, the ESIPA production of \Verdict\ was captivating. If one would criticize, one must also give credit. This performance was enjoyable from beginning to end, and I would happily go see it again. It really is hard to go wrong when one combines ESIPA and Agatha Christie. anything to get what she wants. The Egg, continuing its A short time later Anya dies of tradition of experimentation, an overdose of her heart will present \An imaginary medicine. Lisa is put on .trial for report on an American Rock murder, Professor Hendryk's Festival\ starting March 15. life is officially in a shambles. The musical has been a smash As one can see, Verdict is not hit in Hungary for 10 years. It a real murder mystery at . .all. will feature Hungarian rock The climax is not concerned star Gabor Presser. with Anya, but with the \Imaginary Report\ promises Professor and how he will live to be a unique and exciting his life; whether he will con- show. liiJIIIIIIhUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUJIIIIIIUIIIIIIUtiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIUUIIIIIIJIIIIIIIUIIIIIUUIIIIIlllflilllllullllllllllllllllltlllllllUI r: \rf 1 WRUC · ' )SCHENECTADY 89.7 fm STEREO- \THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ It's The WRUC TOP 8.97-the countdown that just drives the babes wild. These were the most frequently played albums this past week on the turntables <?f WRUC. C3:ll your favorite D,.J .. at 37o-6151, request your favortte new music and take part m m- fluencing next week's listing. Position Artist Albwn Label Last Week Slash--6 WB-8-97 A&M-3 RCA-7 BigTime-1 Sire-2 CBS- Chrysalis- RCA-a 1 Violent Femmes- 'f4e Blind Leading the Naked 2 Replacements...,.. Tim 3 Simple Minds-Once Upon A Time 4 Clannad-Macalla 5 Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars 6 Echo & the Bunnymen-\Dancing Horses 7 Bangles-Different Light 8 Midge Ure-The Gift 8.97 Blow Monkeys-Forbidden Fruit Program Notes . The first 1986 SPORTS LINE, our call in spor~ talk show, ~11 air immediately following TRIVIA on Sunday rught ... Tune m to JAZZ on WRUC, weekdays from 1 to 4 p.m .... A track from each WRUC TOP 8.97 album is counted down every Wednesday night at 9 p.m. . Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director

Page 16 CONCORDfENSJS, February 13, 1986 THE ARTS ''On Your Toes\ at Pro_ctor's ... Arts Exhibits Bitter Hope: ·From Holocaus~to New York Senate Minority Haven Leader Manfred Ohrenstein. New York Metropolis Striking imag~s by renowned · photqgraphers including Alfred · Eisenstaedt and Lenni Son- nenfeld along with memorabilia and other artifacts contrast the horrors of the Holocaust :with an incredible experiment that ·began more than 40 yeats ago. By order of President Franklin . Rposevelt, 982 survivors of Hitler's death machine were settled in a temporary \haven\ .in Oswego, New York during World War II. A testament to ~g Re~nennbered Main Lobby January 16-March 2 Tap, Jazz & Ballet · human resilience and resolve, Bitter Hope: From Holocaust to Haven documents the grip} ·events of the Final Solution and the story of those refugees- their desperate flight from the Nazi terror, a perilous Atlantic crossing on an army transport hunted by German U-Boats, isolation in a U.S. internment camp, and their struggle to remain in America. Created by For over a decade· Martin Luther King, · Jr. gave photojournalist Flip Schulke unprecedented access to his public an~ private life. Now 50 of Schulke's dramatic photographs, some famous and. others previously unknown, constitute this major new. exhibit opening on the eve of America's first celebration of ' Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. Schulke spent more time With Martin Luther King, Jr. and his family than any other photographer. His assignments for Time and Ufe magazines spanned the world, and his lens . captured some of the most exciting and turbulent events of our time .. The exhibit ts co• sponsored by the State Education Department and the State Labor Department. W. W. Norton and Co. and Pocket Books have just published King Remembered, a book by Schulke and Penelope McPhee, available in the Museum Shop. By KARENM. STASH The Rodgers and Hart musical classic, On Your Toes, which won a Tony Award, was at Procter's Theatre February 4-6. It was a combination of bright lights of Broadway and drama of classical ballet. Quite an entertaining evening! \On Your Toes\ has an in- teresting history. When it first staged in 1936, it brought together classical ballet and traditional Broadway fare for the very first time.It proved that tap and' jazz could co'!.exist with ballet, and it was the .first show to include choreography as one of its program credits. It included the extraordinary combination of talents of director George Abbott, choreographer George Balanclline, and orchestrator Hans Spailek. In 1983, the revival of \On Your Toes\ recaptured the spirit of this original play. It now consists of a 25 member cast and 14 piece orchestra. The show stars Valentina and Lenoid Kozlov, although Lenoid was unable to perform this pa!'lt week in Schenectady. Late Night Bites All-Campus Jam Session Every Thursday & Every Sunday 9:30- 12:30 At Hale House Lower Lounge The Uni.on College Dance Ensemble presents: Pieces in Progress The show overall was very entertaining. Set in the mid- thirties, it portrayed an ex- vaudeville dancer who had · the New York State~ducation Department in conjunction with the Greater Albany Jewish Federation, through · a . legislative grant sponsored by ·.·become a music teacher. He persuaded a famous Russian Ballet Cbmpany to perform one of his modern dances by one of his students. Complications then arose when the prima ballerina made advances toward the teacher, thereby making her boyfriend jealous. Her boyfriend, because of his jealousy, decided to kill the teacher as he danced his finale. Courtesy of Union Public Relations The play'~ action started right at ·the ·t~eginning and centered around this com- bination of ballet and jazz-tap dances. It included well-known songs such as \There's A Small Hotel\ and \It's Gotta Be Love\. This melodramatic comedy was light-hearted, cheery, and humorous. The costwnes and scenery also were excellently done, and the ending was, as expected, happy. Coming soon to Procter's is Sandra Bergman, a comedian who is known for her appeal to young audiences. Come on, make a trip to Procter's soon. You will be glad you did. Rolando Guillermoprie'to, a world-renowned artist .and lecturer at Mexico's Center for Bilingual, Multicultural Studies, will be the Minerva Hour speaker on Wednesday, Feb. 19. He will discuss \Cultural Development and Our Political and Social Life:' Reflections in an Obsidian · Mirror.'' A native of Mexico City, Guillermoprieto has lived and studied in the United States, England, and the Bahama Islands. He was founder- director of the Campesino Art Workshop at the Instituto DeCapacitacion Campesina in the state of Morelos, Mexico, and in 1983-84, he was Lilly Distinguished Foreign Professor at Earlham College in Indian. Critics have praised Guillermoprieto's work as I want to ask you to be my inspiration, to infatuate my humble senses with your pure and unearthly fire, to startle my slumbering consciousness with a vivid rapture beyond all imagining. ranging from \the impeccable to the sublime,\ and as belonging to \That tradition which has won for the art of Mexico so important and in- delible a place in world history.\ Educators describe him as a~ eloquent speaker whose \teaching skills place him in that small class of exceptional university teachers .... \ \His profound knowledge of Mexican character and history,\ says Earlham College Professor Howard Lamson, \enable him to elaborate on the contemporary problems . of Mexico, giving the students in our program a broader view of the country and its people.\ Guillermoprieto will deliver his lecture at 11:30 a.m., SS 016. The lecture is free and operi to the publie. But I just can't seem to find the rz!fhl u·ords. Find them at THE WRITING CENTER Ol{:f Chapel -2nd floor Mon.- Fri. 2-4:30 Sun.- Thurs. -7- 9:00 Give Blood Today - Tomorrow Fox Lounge All Day

CONCORDIENSIS, Fehr11ary 13, 1986 Page 17 ATTENTION: The 'Skellar will be closing for ''final\ renovations Monday and Tuesday, February 17th and 18th, 1986, and will have a Grand _Reopening on Wed- nesday the 19th. Thank you fDr putting up with our . ad- justment period working toward the \New Rathskellar . 11 We regret any inconvenience this has caused you. STUDENTS INTERESTED IN WORKING AFTERNOON SHIFTS ... Please drop by with your name.,#, and days you can work. PUBLIC SPEAKING COMPETITION Thurs.day, February 6, 1986 Fox Lounge 7:00 P.M. Fl NAL RESULTS: 1st Place ($125)- Peter Granger 2nd Place ($75)- Eric Lippman 3rd Place ($50 Gift. Cert.) -Allan Markus ''Give Blood!'' -Pete Townshend Bloodmobile Fox Lounge Today& Tomorrow 8\ . \l { tU [lt u :::...- ..;n\\ ~~~&)~(tl Bouliq U(' 169 J a: y Stt·eet Handmade Silver Hutf? Lati&efl. C.'-\\'s.~ tlo M\t>·\JE'K W\-\P.T~ 1 St\JDE:.tJT PtOTesr . Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts, A Complete Line of Pipes & Smoking Accessories, Rock T's and Assorted Rock Group Items t>~E A>~..'? ou~ .. No WA'I ~ U~h-f~UH ~ \.\\-\A\ l ~ t-.\ \ ~ - \C\&~ ?n THE ARTS Indian Music By JOAN GOTLIB The winter improvisation series had its third performance this Friday at 7:30 in the par- forming arts studio of the Arts Department. Music of South India was featured, em-· phasizing the mrdangam, a two- headed, barrel-shaped drwn, and the vina, a long-necked instrument shaped like a lete with a large bowl made in beautiful, smoothly finished wood. K. S. Subramanian played the Vina. The Vina is a very old instrument dated before Christ. rt is similar to the Sitar but older and it is native of India while the Sitar comes from Persia. Subramaaian's family has been involved with music f<1r nine generations. They played in the royal courts of South India and were well known for their skill in traditional Indian music. Subramanian has a doctorate from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut and he is a Coplan fellow, an honor for visiting artists. He has per- formed all over the world; Europe, Southeast Asia, Canada, and the United States. T. S. Sarkara is a world famous player on the mr- dangam. He is the topmost drwnmer of India and has accompanied all the top masters of India. Sankara is the assistant professor of music at York University in Toronto, Canada. He has also played in concerts an over the world. An American professor from Amherst College, David Reck, accompanie!l Subramanian and Sarkara em .the Tambar in· strument which produces a constant \drone\ sound. The Tambar acts as background and brings the others together. The style of the music per- formed this Friday was called \Karnatak\, a traditional fDrm from Southern India. The two common elements of the melodious music were R.aga, which is like a scale played in the beginning, slowly, to ex::p(·Se the tune, and Tala which is more of a rhythmic patter-n. The Indian music was stylistically different, with a rich and harmonious com- plexity, unique to their culture. The sounds from the universal instruments blended togethtJr to create relaxing, mellow music but with a wonderful varied beat from the mrdangam. Considering the bad, willtery weather, the turnout was ex- cellent. The audience was very receptive and seemed to eiljoy the interesting music, kee:ping in tempo with hard claps and nodding heads. The next performance will feature the music from Japan on Friday, February 21. Romie Nyogetsu Seldon will play on the Shakuhachi and Fusako Yoshida will play on the ICoto. · IIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllf IIIII = TAKE YOUR OWN _ . PICTURE WITH YOUR FRIENDS = - - - - Friday and Saturday _ - - During - - - - - - Winter Weekend · at Library Field llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllll G£:L-T\ME pr;~~E::.~ l){P.Nlf\OIJ~Li!! .::$. M UR.Df

. - Page 18 SCHOLARSHIPS, ·FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS Toll-free service helps students find aid. College fresh- men can call a· toll-free number for help in finding financial aid. The number, 1-800-AID-FIND, is part of a national scholarship matching service called Student Aid Finders, based in Laconia New Hampshire. This service has computer- access to over 4 billion dollars in student aid. \Practically all students can and do qualify for student aid regardless of academic achievement or financial need,\ said Paul Hemphill, president of Student Aid Finders. Hemphill's service guarantees to find any student a minimum of 5 (and as many as 25) student aid sources based on information the student provides on a data form. Then, the service searches through its computers and matches the information to the specific student aid for which the student qualifies. Within 3 to 4 weeks, the student receives a computer read-out of the matching sources-complete with names, addresses and eligibility requir-ements. \Plue adds Hemphill, \if we don't find a minimum of 5 sources, we refund the required fee of $39 and give the student whatever sources we do find absolutely free.\ Rep. Benjamin A. Gilman is looking for interested college students to serve as summer interns in the Washington of- fice. Applicants must be residents of the 22nd Congressional District of New York. Students will learn first- hand the legislative process. Application deadline is March 1, 1986. The National Trust for Historic Preservation offers the Yankee Intern Program for the swnrner of 1986. Interns will gain experience with preser- vation organizations and public agencies throughout New England and parts of New York. Application deadline is March 15, 1986. The Cetacean Research Unit of the Gloucester Fishermen's Museum is looking for summer interns in the field of zoology. · Interns will be responsible for collecting, organizing and Homecoming '86 All students interested in helping with Homecoming Weekena (October 10·12) are invited to attend the • Homecoming Meeting on Tuesday, February 18 4:30 p .. m .. Room 015, Social Sciences Building FREE PIZZA & SODA for all who attend CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986 transcribing. data dealing with the behavior of humpbac~ whales. Application deadline is March 1, 1986. Norstar Bank has summer intern positions available for college juniors. It is a 14 week assignment in the areas of accounting, audit, branch administration, marketing or · loan. . Application deadline is March 31, 1986. Ithaca College has Head Resident positions available for the 1986·87 academic year. Prior involvement in a residence hall staff position, supervisory, campus or com- munity leadership or helping position is · preferred. Application deadline is Apri11, 1986. Jacob Kaplan offers fellowships in Urban Affairs and Policy Analysis. Partial scholarships are also available. Candidates must have a mmtmum GPA of 3 .. 5. Application deadline is March 1, 1986. The University of Pittsburgh offers the Mellon Summer Research Program in Psychiatl\y for undergraduates. The fellows will participate in research and clinical work for 8 weeks. Applicants must be juniors or seniors. Application deadline is February 28, 1986. Project AHEAD (Asian Health Education and Development) is offering swmner health program. The program is designed to expose students to the health field, to understand health related issues of underserved com- munities and to instill a sense of community. The program is based in New York's Chinatown Health Clinic. Application deadline is April 9, 1986. New York Clety Urban Fellows Program offers 20 college seniors and graduate students the opportunity of field work experience in urban government. Application deadline is February 15, 1986. The Baltimore Museum of Art offers a ten-week internship program. Interns will be in- troduced to all aspects of museum work, but will work intensively in a single depart- ment. Application deadline is March 15, 1986. CAREERS Career Development Cen- terFeb. 17, Mon.-Careers in Sports: Alumni-ae will speak about opportunities in careers related to sports and offer suggestions on how t~ . get started in entry-level posthons. This is a good chance to see what suits ·your abilities and style. 7:()0 p.m~ in HU114. Feb. Ht, Tues.-Orientation to the CDC. lrSV4: 30 p.rn. CDC Feb. 18, Tues.--Summer JMOBS: Learn to use the hidden job market establish contacts, and do information interviewing, along with other strategies that will help you find a summer job. Determine the types of jobs that will best meet your needs and help you develop useful skills. 4:30p.m., HU117, 7:00p.m., TBA. Feb. 20, Thurs.--Resume Preparatl41n: Learn to ~om­ municate your umque backgr{)und, strengths .and abilities in ·effective wrttten form. This session will cover the three styles o;of resumes and cover letter composition. 4:30 p.m., mJ113 Career Dev. Center Recruiting News. Engineering q:iajors ~n­ terested in employment With New York State Department of Transportation, the Environ- mental Conservation Depart- ment and-or the Office of General Services can attend a general meeting on Thursday, February 13 at 7:30 p.m. in Butterfield Room 206. Junior Engineers from each divisi?n will be available for a brtef presentation and questions. A personnel representat~ve for New York State wdl be available to discuss New York State employment in general. Please sign up in the orange workshop book at the CDC if YoU plan to attend. CLUB NEWS Newman Reception-SWlday, February 16 in the Rectory following the 7:30p.m. Liturgy. Come to relax: and talk with our guest celebrant Father Bob Roos from St. Luch's, Altamont. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, February 17 at 8 p.m . in 2nd floor Conference Room, Whitaker House; Please use rear door. Lenten Day of Prayer- Saturday, February 22 from 10- 4 at Catholic Family Services next to St. John's Church. Sr .. Joan and Friar Paul will con- duct a Lenten Day of Prayer. Lunch will be provided. Please register with Sr. Joan. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part ofthe Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Peace Pastoral Study Group-Wednesday, February 19 at 7:30 p.m. in St. John's School Library, Professor Harry Murray, Sociology Department at Union Will continue to leacl a study and discussion ofthe Bishops' Peace Pastoral. All welcome. Kindergarten Aides--Anyone interested in assisting one hour a week at St. John's School please contact Tina 'Sciocchetti, 370-2275, who is coordinating this project. Tutors for Math-Anyone interested in assisting Com- puter Math Students at St .. · John's, T, Th, F please contact Liz Karazim 370-6511 who is coordinating 45-minutes volunteer session. Confirmation-Sunday, April 27 at 3 p.m. at St. John the Evangelist Church. Any Union student who has not been confirmed and who wishes to receive the sacrament please contact -Sr. Joan who will arrange classes to suit student schedules. CLASSJHEDS --- Teach in. Japan. Americans with a degree or two or more years job experi~n.ce in su~h fields as advertismg, public relations, engineering, business administration, pharmacology, linguistics and . lan~uage wishing to teach English to Japanese adults for one or two years· in Tokyo and other parts of Japan should write to: Personnel Manager, Inter:- national Educatim Services, Shin Taiso_ Bldg., 10-7, Dogenzaka 2-chome, Shibuya• ku, Tokyo, Japan 150. Spring Break_:._'IMJ: party in Fort. Lauderdale. Trips include seven nights' accommoda~if!ns, all taxes and gr.atmtles, poolside party at Summ~.rs, daily happy hoUI.\s Hawanan Tropic parties, round-trip jet and more!! Stud'ent Travel Services 1-8(){)o64l!-4875. Spring Break '8G-Relax in Nassau, Bahamas. Trips in- clude roundtrip jet, transfers, seven nights' accommodations, parties, free cruise,· all taxes and more!! I $369pp. complete. Student Travel Services 1-800- 641H875. Drummer wanted for band. Contact Kevin at 382·1766. Re-evaluation of Women's Formal Rush: Will take place Wednesday, Februal\y 19, 1986 at TBA. If you have opinions concerning the way rush should or should not be run, please feel free to comment. Any . com- ments or suggestions can be sent to the Panhellenic Con- ference, Box 255~. Professional typing-Busi- ness teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumer, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time, 399-4656. Spring Break. In Bahamas, Bermuda, Florida, Mexico, or ' Acapulco. 1) 7 nights lodging or hotel 2) professional tour escort 3) round trip jet. flight from N.Y.C. 4) free beach accessories 5) transfers from airport to your accommodation 6) welcome party 7) taxes ancl gratuities prepaid before arrival 8) free beach parties, cruises, dances, live rock bands 9) free bar beque lunches for Bermuda I. Bermuda $399 II. Bahamas $369 III. Fort Lauderdale-Daytona $399; if driving $159 IV. Mexico $499 V. Acapulco $499 Contact: Ben 371)-3601 before Feb. 21. Babysitter wanted: Preferably female, three af- ternoons from 12-6 p.m. Car needed. Call377-7749 and speak to Valerie. For sale: 1985 Ply.- Horizon-11,000 miles, 5 speed manual trans., 5 yr.~5o,ooo mi. .gu-arantee in effect-- transferrable. 2.2liter engine-fuel injected,. 2 color tan & gold spm-ts stripe, door opening protection. Rear window wipers & heater, twin inside control side view mirrors, 5 raclial tires (all weather), . Velour (cloth) bucket seats and carpeting, \Rusty Jones\ or equivalent rust protection, delay time wipers, AM-FM radio, heater-blower air system, food and change caddy.· · Purchased in Feb. 1985 from Armory Garage, 926 Central Ave., Albany. Asking $5,700. Call Prof. R. Eisenstadt, 370-6268 or 370-6264. Home 377-9453 (after 5 p.m.) The 1985 Federallllcome Tax forms are out and the April 15 deadline is fast approaching~ In response to frequ.ently asked tax questions; the Financial Aid Office has put together a short list of tax: survival tips. 1) Do I have to file? No, unless your gross income was over $3,400 (including all earned income) ; or you had federal tax withheld and are entitled to a refund; or you can be .claimed as a dependent on your parents' tax return and you had $1,040 or more in in~ come from interest or dividends. 2) Do I have to include my· College-Work-study money in. figuring my taxable income? Yes. College Work Study { CWS) money is earned income, and all earned income is taxable even if no tax was withbeld. 3) Will I owe Social Security (FCIA) taxes on my CWS money: No Student employees on campus are exempt from Social Security taxes on their ear- nings. . · 4) Wben do I have to file by? April15, 1986 for the 1985 tax year. 5) If I file a tax form can my parents still claim me as a tax exemption? · Yes, if you were a full-time . student and they provided more titan half of your support for_ 1!)85. 6) If.I file a Federal tax return rloi have to file a tax return for my home state? · No, unless you have earned over the minimum income limit or y:ou had state taxes withheld Cllld ar.e due a refund. 7) Where can I get tax forms? Federal and New York State tax forms are available at Public Libraries and U.S. P,o~t .. . Offices. · · -· , We hope this information helps clear up some of the confusion about filing tax: f()rms. If you have other more tEchnical questions call the IRS at 1-8()0-424-1040 and someone there should be able to answer your q11estions. Typin.g: Top quality, reasonable rates. Call Marian 39!)-0165. Now get four hours of Maximum ENTROPY A WEEK FROM &:30 to 11;30 a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays with Fred and Mike on W.R.U.C., 89.7 f.m. LOST: Prescription \Risky Business\ stmglasses. Please cal Michele at 6686 if found. Tne Film Committee pl\esents: Wknd Feb. 14-16-Breakfast Club at 7, 9, 11. . Tues., Feb. 18-Harold and Maude at 7, 9, 11. Tickets are available at the Old Chapel for $1. German Film Series. . On Monday, Feb. 24, Ich will dodt our, dass ihr mich .liebt (I only want your love), 1976, a film by R.W. Fassbinder. During his entire life Peter has attempted to gain the love of those closest to him. Mter his marriage and move to the city, he incurs difficulties and problems causec;l by furnishing an apartment and supporting a family, until he seemingly reaches a point \of no ret~rn.\ He commits a murder, which later is described as being senseless, indeed he finally ·draws attention to the sen- selessness of his life by an in- sensitive act. All filins are full length feature films; , fn . color, · in German with English subtitles. , - - - .(~ p. ..... J - C1 Dll ort P.: sm Mr I 'J Ki~ He I He< the tha UN To' v din To floc E mil spe: han just thaJ sta1 wee M- y a sl To 1 vale R1 Vi M I Phi \ Loo trip Lil, E corr TID To 1 Tl cerz Chr hav' spe( tine Mic: Bro1 It go in due BJ pre1 day:

CONCORDI,ENSIS, February 13, 1986 Page 19 Place: Language Laboratory, ·llumanities 010, Time: 3:30 p.m, Admission Fre.e. +Roommate Exchange Program+ for info, write Mike, Box 654. PERSONALS CTH I love you I love you I love ·you Let me count the ways Happy Valentine's Day Roses are red Violets are blue IAK You've got me stuck lil~e Glew, Happy Feb. 14.' ' Love you, Muffily DWOG-Please check OUR orthodonture! -Muffy & Sheila P.S. Which broken bones are the sexiest? Mr. Wonderful- ! 'fess Kisses, Porkee Hey Dannin, GUESS WHAT??? It's broasted! ! ! Heather: Have you ever seen the man at the hockey games that sits there and shouts UNION! I !I!!! To our ex-bachelor-of·the-~eek: What's on HBO? What's for dinner? Love, the freeloaders To everyone on last year's 2nd .floor Fox North: Happy Valentine's Day!!!! Love, Ali militant feminists? but we only spend HALF of our budget on handguns and mace ... just like to say, we think that that was one the most ignorant statements made ALL last week. Women's Network M- You're right he has your A- in a sling! K&K To Roberts - From your secret valentine: Roses are Red Violets are blue My name is- I bet you wish you knew! ! HAPPY Valentine's Day Phi Delt Road Trippers, We had a great time at RIT. Looking forward to many more trips and parties. · +Phikeias Lil, Even though you know this is coming have a HAPPY BIR· THDAY!! Love, Y ourroornmates To the Math Department, Thank you for being con- cerned, caring professors. . ' LA&G ' ' Chris, These past three,months have been the best You're so special to. me. Happy Valen- tine's . Day! Love always, Michele Brother Master- It does not look like we are going to get /paddled after all, due to lack of equipment! - Y o'ur Pledges Kiln, Chris, and Beth, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! Love always, Donna Bloppie: Upon your return prepare to have fun, for in just 2 days the LSAT's are DONE!' · · To Garu, Hands, Tracey, Kelly and Gumby--Hell of a trip. Japanese police will never be the same. I still have sand in my shorts. LRM~A fleeting vision of Houdini has been appearing in my mind. Am I going insane? Will this apparition every materialize? Perhaps this weekend ... SAM THE COW?!? Oh Total illustrious One. I really miss waking up to the swank smell of peanut butter and Captain Crunch. Gail T, please show your hands so he will know what to do. C. Rita Q: I am tall and very groovy. Can we meet? S. Langtr.ee S: Roses are red Violets are blue I'm starved How 'bout dinner for two? Pam Dickowitz: ·so what constitutes a good time? Being asked wnat your major is, or making muffins?? Zonker, I'm bringing you valentine greetings .... Katie-Do you think there are . . any good pledges left em this .c campus? Or hav.e they all been · claimed?-M C- And we thought you were new, pure and innocent like Elwood! You're a sleezy slimey pledge! Happy Valentine's day. K,.K&M Senor Clark Eek do guerren. Estoy enamorado centigo. D.A.U., H.V.D.I.L.Y .. Your cold pig G.A.B. Mary K., . Have you seranaded anyone lately? Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Mom and Daughter Jules Have a great weekend and cheer up. Looking forward to welcoming you back on Tues. Loveya Court Kim-I see those bubbles over your head -(glug glug)-:Se careful, baby. Alan-So far away, yet so close ... ! miss you lots, but Jlove you· even more. Happy V-Day! Amy D. Happy Valentine's Day Blue si:lk and hot strawberries?? ? ! How about another ~·world Record Weekend\? I love you! - DEAN DANIELS: I really am getting mY thesis done! ~cs Dan, Happy Valentine's Day!!! Happy Bhihday! ! ! · I love you! ! l :-Les Chris, · Only one more left 'til this week'·s over! Good luck! Love,Gwnby HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRIS! All my love, · Your not-so-secret Valentine On this, a special weekend, the Brothers would like to congratulate Deni and Marc on their recent marriage. Our thoughts are with them. K, . Happy Valentine's Day! I love you! -L Dear Beullah, This year it won't breathe. Happy Valentine's Day. I love you. Myran MO I'm so laid-back I could just throw up. Bill the stress factor . Hi Sas Happy Valentine's Day! Lov!;l, Cupid ELOELA- Happy Valentine's Day to my favorite Swinging Suitemate. Love P. - Dear Donald, Let's have bad gas on Valentine's Day. I love you lots. Daisy Rick A (3-D) Hey secret valentine ... you don't know who ... but I've got something \sweet\ for you. 'MP-0 punches, r beer and a boy! Happy Valentine's Day! Love, P EEC- Ai\e you a step ahead or a step behind? We still can't figure it out! Happy Valentine's day! K &K Senior l'rip Club Jeff.:_ Happy Valentine's Day!! Loveya, Lisa Senior - Club is for seniors only ... Dwog, Do you really think you're the only one who hates figuring out who sent you personals? ++Ticks me Too Dwog, . . How about inviting over that Indian friend of yours? -Sucks a Sioux O.D.- West of North North of West Look for Neon To see me best Your secret valentine Dwog, I've hag enough of the Poconos. How about a trip to Dallas? -TexySue Dwog, Why don't you come·over for a Campbell's party? -Sacks of Soup Choby, VA, Paint fightsat the Clip, and Collin's Toast are gone. But we'll be friends forever! Be in my wedding? Love ya, To Jeff from Mutt Daisy, I love you, I love you, I love you!!! Happy Valentine's Day! ! ! Donald Happy Twentieth Ash! Please stay away from broken elevators-they could be dangerous. Love ya, Faithful friend Debbie C. Meet Amy and Gail at the disco at 10:00. Don't be late or else ... Oh, to be an 'A'. -A 'B' person Tell me A's, what 10 percent of Japan did I miss? -A 'B' person We must deal with Japan. I guess I didn't, I missed 5 per- cent of it. Love, an A- \person\ G-Phi-Bs- Get Psyched! Winter Fest is here! ! Have FUN!! BDB GAMMA PHI BETAS!!! A Valentine wish for you: With Love from my heart, Learning _ from my mind, Labor from my hands, I give You Loyalty from the sisterhood of Gamma Phi Beta. You're the GREATEST!!!! Love in IIKE, 'Brooke Darrin, Kurt, Scott, Mike and Pete, · I may have been wet on last Thursday night, but against all of you I came out ahead. Keep. your eyes open. I could be behind the next door you open ...... -wet & waiting Uhhh ........ 1'11 take ''COUCH POTATOES\ for $1,000, Please. Remember, No matter where you go, Even in Schenectady, THERE YOU ARE!! -Bonzi NEG-Happy V&lentine's Day from the roommate who loves you but has got to stop eating Mom's cookies! Happy Valentine's Day to the GORGEOUS blonde I would never stand up. Let's see how many more classes I can blow off... ... Louise, 1, 2, 3-Happy Valen- tine's Day. In a big way soon....... Love you- Victoria (alias Louise) Gail-san, door's open, door's open, door's still open. Mr. Lee Kevin-san~ Gumby is calling you. He wants to know if you're bendable. WAKARU! Jamie, Happy Valentine's Day! Love always, Donna Baby face monster, Have a fantastic V-day! Lo:veyou, Secret Valentine Congratulations new officers of Delta Ganuna! You are simply marvelous. Love you lots... the ex officers of Delta Gamma Bobby, Is it French or English? A curious history student Arlener, Happy Valentine's Day to my little sister! Delta Love, Kim Lori L., Thanks for caring and calling Sat. I am feeling better now. Let's get together soon. J.M. To Louises No. 2,3,4 (Fred, Patrice, Victoria) Thank you for making my last year here so special. I love you all. Louise No. 5. HAPPY BIRTHDAY P.J. and SIR WINSTON Laura, (The Bad)-Here's to stealing brownies ( & anything else we get our hands on), Indian Blue C~_!nP.t. 2 meal mates; a bear iil a bubble, playing nails, to us buying matching sticks, your birthday, my birthday, and most of all our friendship! Love you- Carol (the good) Dateline: March 23 New Haven Sally's Be there .... K will! MUSTIN LAKE: What's so good about good-bye, when the best was yet to come? Harbor Fest 1986 ******************************************** ~ ~ ~ ~ E WRUC'S Trivia : ~ ~ ~ ~ . ~ . ~ f Contest starts ~ ~ ~ • • f this Sunday ~ ~ * ~ ~ • • f February 16 at 8 P.M.~ . ~ ~ . . ~ • • . ~ ! Listen and call-in : : . • • ! tq -win part of the : . ~ . ~ . ~ t $·2000 in prizes ! . ~ ~ ~ . • • ~ to be given away!! ! • • • • • • +*******************************************.

·' j Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, February 13,1986 Sign Up Today. For the Career of Tomorrow Pratt & Whitney will conduct on-campus interviews Feb. 26. Sign up at the Placement ·Office today. The high technology woriJ awaits! Bring your resume anJ explore the wiJe range of opportunities. with Pratt & Whitney-the recognized leader in a~rospace technology. • Aeronautical Engineering • Mechanical Engineering • Computer Science • Electrical Engineering • Metallurgical Engineering If you have the desire to excel in a high technology environment, don't miss this opportunity to meet with Pratt & Whitney representatives. Sign up today! UNITED TECHNOLOGIES n VI ;* ..,.. T 9. lA' ~~'if ~n r..-: r ~·1 A',.\ ~ . .~ \· \'! ,; ·~ ' ~ ~ d -1- t\' i 'lli,JcCJ:JI''''L:'llt, f rq •::wr the difference is ... . • • your kind of place .. . the difference is exci1ing gifts •. . the difference is distinctive cards and stationery .. • the difference is your kind of clothes at a discount . . . the difference is m in u tes from campus the dij'ftrence is corner ojLiberty and South Ferry Streets Schenectady. Visa- Mastercard 382-7600 Ho11rs Mon.-Fri. 10:00-5:30 Sat. 10:00-5:00 ~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU!§ ~ UNION COLLEGE. STUDENTS ~ §]§ Show us your college IDs ~ == between 2 pm - 5 pm and receive = ~ . Sirloin Steak Dinner- $5.95 !5 :::: Spaghetti arid Meatballs- $2.95 ~ ~ parties of 4 or more wi II receive § ~ a FREE Pitcher of Coca-Cola 53 == = ;;;;;; Sunday Evening Mexican Night ~ ~ Featuring: Nachoes, l0aded Nachoes, § ~ Triple loaded nachoes, Mexican ~ - salads, and Mexican skins- § Half Price with your IDs! !§ I MtlNH~!fbttN i I iE~~IHA.~~~ I § 605 Union Street · == §1i 374-5930 . . . § iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIUIIili • Attention: Faculty, Admini.stration and Anyone Interested 1500 sq. ft. Multi-purpose space available 1 mile off campus along Mohawk River To be rented in conjunction with Union CoUege 'Rowing Association for office, projects, lab, persona,! or business use. Contact John Ciovacco 381-6960 As soon as possible q..q..q..q..q,~tq,r..Q>r.Q>tq,r.Q>.q,~rq,~~.q,.q..q,cq,..q,.q-..q-.~.q...q,~v.;r • .q,~.q,.q,.q,.<Q:1 ~ The Union College Psychology Club in coniunction ~ § with the members of Psi Chi are proud to be hosting ~ ·~ pyschotherapist Gail George, as a ,guest speaker of a § ~ colloquium series on clini,cal topics. Please ioin us for ·~ § Mso George's lecture, 11 Fasting, Feasting and Clean- ~ ~sing: A Celebration of Food,\ on Tuesday, February 18, § at 7:30p.m. The lecture wi'll be held in room 113 of the ~ psychology building. - § .q-.~r..Q>r..Q>r.Q>r.Q>~~r.Q>~~r.Q>r.Q>r..Q>r.Q>.q-..q-..q,r..Q>.q,r.Q>.q-.r.q..q,r..Q>.q,~.q,.q-.~~ \ ~ c ro· E <]) I.- I- ::l 0 .J . >- .Q 0 ·, b .c: 0. .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • . •·· ... ,

Page 20 Sign Up Today For the Career of Tomorrow Pratt & Whitney will conduct on-campus interviews Feb. 26. Sign up at the Placement Office today. The high techn( du.gy m'rld <IW<lih~ Bnng \'( HJr re~ume and explun.: the wide range ( 1luppurtumtil'~ With Pratt & Whitney- the reo 1gni:ed leader in aerospace tedmolugy. • Aeronautical Engineering • Mechanical Engineering • Cumruter Science • Electrical Engineering • Metallurgic<ll Engineering If you have the desire to excel in a high technology environment, don't miss this opportunity to meet with Pratt & Whitney representatives. Sign up today! UNITED TECHNOLOGIES '·. ' [ l , I ( · ~ : ' r • • ' ' • ~ ' ' ~ 1 ! ' ' the difference is . .. . . . your kind of place .. . the difference i\· exciting gifts .. . the difference i\· distinctive cards and stationery .. . the dijftrence i\· your kind of clothes at a discount .. . the difference is minutes from campus the difference is corner of Liberty and South Ferry Streets Schenectady. Visa- Mastercard 382-7600 Hours Mon.-Fri. /0:00-5:30 Sat. 10:00-5:00 ~111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 11111111111111111111111~ ~ UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS § Show us your college IDs - - = = =:: between 2 pm - 5 pm and receive = = Sirloin Steak Dinner- $5.95 ~ s Spaghetti and Meatballs- $2.95 ~ == parties of 4 or more will receive = :::::::2 a FREE Pitcher of Coca-Cola = == = ;;;;;; Sunday Evening Mexican Night = - - = Featuring: Nachoes, lt:>aded Nachoes, = = = = Triple loaded nachoes, Mexican = - - = salads, and Mexican skins- = - - == HalfPricewithyour!Ds! = = = - - I MfiNHf\A*~t4N ; a ~I I~ a I le)t(~IH~~~~ ~ § 605UnionStreet = ~ 374-5930 liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ CONCORDIENS/S, February 13, 1986 .··--.,;~· .. ' . Attention: Facu:lty, Admi,nistration a:nd Anyo,ne Interested 1500 sq. ft. Multi-purpose space available 1 mile off campus along Mohawk River To be rented in con junction with Union College Rowi,ng Association for office, projects, lab, personal or business use. Contact John Ciovacco 381-6960 As soon as possible -b>«?>~...q,.g,..q.«?><Q><.O\><.O->t.t?\>t.O'\><Q'><Q\><Qo<Q><b>~<Q>cQ>.q-,.q,.q-,t.Q>t.Q>cQ><Q><q . ..q,.q-,«?>cq.<b>~ ~ The Union College Psychology Club in conjunction t § with the members of Psi Chi are proud to be hosting ~ ~ pyschotherapist Gail George, as a gues.t speaker of a § t colloquium series on clinical topics. Please join us for ~ § Ms. George's lecture, \Fasting Feasting and Clean. ~ ~ sing: A Celebration of Food,\ on Tuesday, February 18, § ~ at 7: 30 p.m. The lecture will be held in room 113 of the ~ § psychology building. § it.O->~<Q><Q><Q><Q>~.q-,t.Q><.lj>-><Q>o.<?><Q>cQ>cQ>.q-,.q><Qot.Q><Q>t.Q>t.Q><Q>t.Q><Q>cq....q,...q,.q.~~ -::_-=- - --=--· .:- -_ --- . i - - - - - - <ll - t: f1l c <ll ,_ 1- ::::1 0 .J >- .0 E 0 ..c:: c. - • - c a 0 a VI ll b N p sc ir N tt lo h. R tt w of aJ VI cc u u re F1 pc th th fil 24 w •• • j ' • 4 ' • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • e • • 0 • • • • • •••

CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986 Page 21 illnncnri)iennin SPORTS Basketball Must Reboun,d Continued frombJ,lck page Cadets again led by nine, 75-66, as Kelvin Jenkins converted an offensive rebound into a score at 1:55. Union Still trailed, 78-72, with only69 seconds left to play. However, three consecutive baskets by Tom Beck at. 0:58, Neil Winawer at 0:45 and Rob Parento at 0:26, knotted the score, 78~78, and sent the game into overtime. the Dutchmen have lost all chances for getting an N.C.A.A. tournament berth. However, they are still very much alive as far as a possible E. C.A. C. bid is concerned ........ Tom Beck's 17 assists vs. Norwich established a new Union College single game record. Beck erased the old mark of 15, set by Joe Clinton vs. Hartwick almost four years ago to the day, Feb. io, 1982, .. ... .. Kurt Fox's 31 points vs. Norwich were not only a career high, but only the fourth time in the past three seasons that a Dutchman has scored over 30 points (the others were Joe Wood, 33, vs. ~·~ S:J'.f . 4:4f~t. . 45.6 . '44'12· 41kS'·· . W' ·: .. : $'2.4. 41.5· .b.§!S\J7 :;,. 4i7::s; :.>···k $l,J '• Basketba,JJ •Statistics FT? 67,8 46.A 5Q,O . !10i3 4l)t()• 64 • .0 . tfl;(J . .. 6.~,$ ' 10:•*''·· Reb P:r' AV$. 13'1 326 17.1 127 -~5 10.8 \~2 :·\ · 163 ·a.6 Sl 15$ . 8~0 $1' . 136 7:;.. 4! 102 5.7 $4 88 $.2 19 31 ,1.4, .4{} 83 ~t.4 14 34 2.4 . ;;, .1 . : 17 ' . ' • ~.;t . ..~ . Jl . ' J,.~t .. ·:._ . .-' :·.:t•\~~~.··.<:&i/;~;.1~';/.~ .,·.: :}\;t··: .. < : .:.() ' • • :Q . QtO:. ., -~· _._:_·:::~:-r ~:~r- · ;::~- ,._:, <-/~:; .. < · · > ): ... _,,:~ ----\_--: ··. ·'61~(. ·\··; . • .. ,635 .· ... 72.~. . (;;;7/J ,':::,A.;;·¥ ktt$}:~,. Neut~.t\ <t~a) In the overtime· period, Norwich came out and scored the first six points and never looked back, as. they gained a hard-fought 93-84 victory. Rebounding again proved to be the difference as the Dutchmen were outrebounded by a margin of 17 boards. Norwich also held an edge in free throws., con- verting 23 of 35 attempts as compared to two of four for . Union. Kurt Fox again led Manhattanville in '83-84, Kevin Bartlett, 34; vs. Williams in '84- 85, and Ken D'Orazio, 34, vs. Middlebury in '84-35. ... .. .. Fox raised his team-leading scoring average to 17.2 ppg. for the season and to 23 ppg. over his last three contests. He is also leading the team in rebounding with 7.3 rpg ........ Union is now 3-7 on the road and 7~2 at home........ The Norwich game r.narkedthesecondtrrnethatthe Dutchmen have been involved in an overtime game this season. They are 1-1 in such contests. 1985-86 Union College Women's 16 Game Totals . Basketball Statjstics Player Grns FG Patty Richards 16 67 'Kim Mangino 15 64 Colleen Dundon 16 60 R. Clemente 16 52 Elaine Pick 16 43 Barb Weissinger 16 32 Julie Gallo 64 31 Michelle 13 15 Van Pattan Margaret Eshoo 5 1 Valerie Sarwin 5 0 Union with 31 points and 8 rebounds. Tom Beck followed Fox with 15 points and 17 assists. Rob Parento added 14 points and Neil Winawer 10 for the 10-9 Dutchmen. All five of the Cadet starters hit double figures, led by Kyle Green with 24. Union 1 6 365 Opponents 16 352 ~ c. ro E <Li I.- I- ::1 0 ..J > .Q ~ .r::. a. DUTCHMEN NOTES ........ . With their current 10-9 record, Record Ch.ris O'Donnell fin.ished 2nd iq the 1000 ancf1500 meter race. ····················································:···································: : . . • • • • • • . : • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . Ha11: De-s1gns WINTER SPECIALS! r--·-- .... ...---..---- .... ---...- ... --..~-------::1 I PERMS I H.AIRCUT( I · An~ludes Cut j & BLQW DRY 1 l $3QOO I $]· Q- 00' I I . I . · ·~ · I ·1 Reg. $42 I Reg. $14 I L _______ Valid thJu Feb. 15 -~------1 l ••:a:.•u-· 372-0007 518 UNIOI ST. SCH'DY • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • (8.8) FGA FG% FT% Reb Pts qAvg 158 42.4 69.4 73 159 9.9 134 47.8 60.0 76 143 9.5 177 33:9 54.2 65 146 9.1 116 44.8 SJ.l 46 128 8.0 124 34'.6 78.9 36 101 6.3 99 32.3 37.1 66 77 4.8 89 34.8 36.8 22 69 4.3 43 34.9 42.8 45 33 2.5 6 16.7 00.0 2 2 0.4 6 00.0 50.0 3 1 0.4 952 38.3 55. 1 429 859 53.7 879 40.0 57.5 404 854 53.4 Home (5-4) Away (3-4) Neutral (0-0) Scott cvr battles for puck in last Friday's 5-1 win. /De Angelos Ristorante 1510 Crysler Ave • 393-4512 PIZZA (8, 12, 24 cut) HOT & COLD SUBS DINNERS {Steak, lasagna) APPETIZERS (Wings, Salad) * · Free Delivery * Wehonor Major Credit Cards . ' . · =··•••••••···;;.~\.·.~.:~.-··;j··~:~••'•~-; ... _ . ...._ ___________________ _,

CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986 Page 21. <ll - c l1l E <ll \- I- ::I 0 .J >- .0 E 0 .c c. • • • • • Qlnncnriliennts SPORTS Basketball Must Rebound Player 1985 ... 86 Union College Basketball Statistics Continued from back page Cadets again led by nine, 75-66, as Kelvin Jenkins canverted an offensive rebound into a score at 1 :55. Union still trailed, 78-72, with only 69 seconds left to play. However, three consecutive baskets by Tom Beck at 0:58, Neil Winawer at 0:45 and Rob Parento at 0:26, knotted the score, 78-78, and sent the game into overtime. 19 game total Kurt Fox Todd Lafayette RobPanmto Nell Winawer Tom Beck Joe Romer Doug Gregory Ken Levine Bruce Witherspoon T'm Diemoz Steve DeBals<> Sc<>tt GibbS Tim Coleman Mike Miller* Joe Hanley* *No longer on the team Union's Totals Opp.. Totals G FG 19 143 19 87 19 77 19 67 19 65 18 43 17 29 8 16 19 * 33 13 15 7 6 8 5 14 5 4 1 1 0 19 19 592 517 FGA 269 196 169 129 134 82 61 24 70 37 15 l1 14 6 1 1218 1086 FG% 53.1 44.4 45.6 44.2 48.5 52.4 47.5 66.7 47.8 37.1 40.0 45.4 35.1 16.7 00.0 48.6 47.6 FT? 67.8 48.4 50.0 70.3 40.0 64.0 81.0 62.5 70A! BO.O 83.3 00.(} 75.0 50.0 OOJ) 62.8 69.3 Reb 139 121 32 61 51 42 54 19 40 14 7 6 13 6 0 678 635 PT 326 205 163 153 136 102 88 37 83 34 17 11 14 4 0 1372 1287 AVG. 17.1 10.8 8.6 8.0 7.2 5.7 5.2 4.6 4.4 2.6 2.4 1.3 1.-() 1.0 0.0 72.2 67.7 In the overtime· period, Norwich came out and scored the first six points and never looked back, as they gained a hard-fought 93-84 victory. Rebeunding again proved to be the difference as the Dutchmen were outrebounded by a margin of 17 boards. Norwich also held an edge in free throws, con- verting 23 of 35 attempts as compared to two of four for Union. Kurt Fox again led Union with 31 points and 8 rebounds. Tom Beck followed Fox with 15 paints and 17 assists. Rob Parento added 14 points and Neil Winawer 10 for the 10-9 Dutchmen. All five of the Cadet starters hit double figures, led by Kyle Green with 24. the Dutchmen have lost all chances for getting an N.C.A.A. tournament berth. However, they are stil.l very much alive as far as a possible E.C.A.C. bid is concerned ........ Tom Beck's 17 assists vs. Norwich established a new Union College single game record. Beck erased the 6ld mark of 15, set by Joe Clinton vs. Hartwick almost four years ago to the day, Feb. 10, 1982........ Kurt Fox's 31 points vs. Norwich were not only a career high, but only the fourth time in the past three seasons that a Dutchman has scored over 30 points (the others were Joe Wood, 33, vs. Record: 10-7 Home (7-2) Away (2·5) Neutral (l-0} Manhattanville in '83-84, Kevin Bartlett, 34,· vs. Williams in '84- 85, and Ken D'Orazio, 34, vs. Middlebury in '84-85.... .... Fox raised his team-leading scoring average to 17.2 ppg. for the season and to 23 ppg. over his last three contests. He is also leading the team in rebounding with 7.3 rpg........ Union is now 3-7 on the road and 7-2 at home ........ The Norwich game marked the second time that the Dutchmen have been involved in an overtime game this season. They are 1-1 in such contests. 1985-86 Union College Women's Basketball Statistics 16GameTotals DUTCHMEN NOTES ........ . With their current 10-9 record, Player Gms Patty Richards 16 Kim Mangino 15 Colleen Dundon 16 R. Clemente 16 Elaine Pick 16 Barb Weissinger 16 Julie Gallo 64 Michelle 13 Van Pattan Margaret Eshoo 5 Valerie Sarwin 5 Union Opponents 1 6 16 Record Chris O'Donnell finished 2nd in the 1000 and 1500 meter race. 1ienani!Jana Hair Designs WINTER SPECIALS! ~----------~~-~~~-~-~--~~ I PERMS I HAIRCUT! l Includes Cut I & BLOW DRY 1 i $3QOO I $] ooo l I Reg. $42 I Reg. $14 I L _______ Valid thrt Feb. 15 ________ j • .. • • • • • 0 • • • • • • .. • • • • • FG 67 64 60 52 43 32 31 15 1 0 365 352 (8.8) FGA 158 134 177 116 124 99 89 43 6 6 952 879 FG% 42.4 47.8 33,9 44.8 34\.6 32.3 34.8 34.9 16.7 00.0 38.3 40.0 FT% Reb Pts 69.4 73 159 60.0 76 143 54.2 65 146 57.1 46 128 78.9 36 101 37.1 66 77 36.8 22 69 42.8 45 33 00.0 2 2 50.0 3 1 55.1 429 57.5 404 859 854 Home (5·4) Away (3·4) Neutral (0·0) qAvg 9.9 9.5 9.1 8.0 6.3 4.8 4.3 2.5 0.4 0.4 53.7 53.4 Scott Cyr battles for puck in last Friday's 5·1 win. De Angelos Ristorante 1510 Crysler Ave. 393-4512 PIZZA {8, 12, 24 cut} HOT & COLD SUBS DINNERS {Steak, Lasagna) APPETIZERS (Wings, Salad) * Free Delivery * Wehonor Major Credit Cards •o::.au·• 372-0007 518 s~:•.:sr. l • • =•••••••••~••••••••••••••••••••••~•••••~•••••••o•·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••o••••••• ~------------------------------------------~ - QJ \U 0 ::l .... Vl >- c 0 +- 0 .c a.

,, . ,, Page22 CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986. mnncnrbitnuis SPORTS Coaches Say New NCAA ·Rules Will Change College Teams (CPS)- College coaches and athletic directors predict the NCAA's new academic requirements for freshman athletes will create \whiter\ football and basketball teams and give larger schools a sharper recruiting edge over smaller schools. Members of the National Collegiate Athletic Association recently voted 206-94 to adopt a controversial plan to require freshman athletes to earn certain minimum scores on. college entrance exams, and have a 2.0 grade-point average in 11 specified high school courses. At the NCAA coonvention in New Orleans, black educators objected that the standardized test score measure effectively will keep minority students off teams and out of college. Educators have long argued standardized test questions tend to be \culturally biased,\ dwelling on experiences and concepts associated with middle-class upbringings. \The NCAA had good in- tentions and a lousy product,\ says Timothy Walter, super- visor of the student-athlete academic support program at the University of Michigan. \There's definitely going to be a whitening of major schools,\ Walter said. \You might see other schools breaking off and a movement of minority kids to a few schools.\ The requirements, which will affect NCAA Dvision I and IA schools, eventually will require freshmen athletes to score at least 700 on the combined Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) or 15 on the American College Testing (ACT) exam, and earn a 2.0 grade-point average in 11 high school academic courses. The requirements will be phased in over three years to allow freshman athletes to offset low test scores with high grades or vice versa. In 1986-87, freshmen must have high school GPAs of 1.8, SAT scores of 740 or ACT scores of 17 to be eligible to play or even practice on NCAA varsity teams. A freshman scoring only 660 on the .SAT or 13 on the ACT must have a 2:2 high school GPA to qualify. Then in 1987-88, a freshman with a 1.9 high school GPA must score 720 on the SAT or 16 on the ACT, or have a 2.2 GPA with · scores of 680 or 14 on his or her entrance exam to be eligible. Freshman athletes not meeting minimum standards must sit out both practice and play until their sophomor~ year. \Smaller schools will be more upset by. this,\ says Nelson Townsend, athletic director at Delaware State College, which has 22,000 students. \Smaller institutions can ill afford to bring in an thlete, ,give him a full scholarship and watch him not play,\ he ex- plains. \Only the rich ,in- stitutions can take advantage of that policy.\ Delaware State will be doubly hit, Townsend predicts, because it recruits many of its students from major urban areas. Inner-city high school students score dispropor- tionately lower on standardized entrance exams, as do some rural-area students, he says. \Whether it's a white kid £rom the hills of West Virginia or a black kid from New York City, you're going th have discrimination against the poor.\ Coach Karen Langeland of Michigan State University favors the new academic requirements. \I may have an ideal per- spective, but I don't think it will have an effect except in a positive way,\ she says of the new freshman requirements. \A smaller pool of athletes will be available,\ she con- cedes, \But I don't think that will necessarily give an edge to bigger .schools. It will be who's better able to recruit.\ She does donfirm one of Townsend's fears in adding Michigan State may stockpile ineligible freshman athletes on a limited basis. \If there were a real blue- chip athlete, we'd consider that,\ she says, estimating the school could award one out of every five schlarships_ to l PI2ZERlAJ promising .. but academiCally deficient athletes. Michigan's Walter thinks the problem can be avoided by requiring ''universities to supply support programs. Don't keep students out. That's an administrator's way out and elitist approach.\ PHONES, 37.2-7270 370-373!5 HOME STYLE p·IZZA F'EATUAING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET & VAN ANTWERP RC. SCHENECTA.OY. N.Y. Me_n's Swimming Stays Afloat By MlCHAEL MILLETT Despite the lack of a pool, the swirmning Dutchmen have still maintained a team to represent Union. Under the guidance of coach, Bob Magee, and Senior Captain, Brian Chabot, the team has so far managed to compete against Trinity, Utica, Hartwick, Norwich, Vassar, New Paltz, Plattsburgh, RPI, and Hamilton. Preparing in arch-rival RPI's pool, the swimmers are readying themselves for an end to an exhausting and unforgettable season, and the upcoming New York State Championship meet. Since the meet is at RPI, the Union participants are an- ticipating a \home pool\ ad- vantage. This year's team is being led in points by Andy Crossley, 200yd. backstroker and 50 yd. freestyler, scoring 52 points for the college. Second is Brian Chabot, 200 yd. breast- stroker and diver-Union's first diver in over thirteen years. Next are Mike Millett, 200 yd. flyer, and Larry Schacter, 200 yd. backstroker, eac~ . at . 26 points. After a dev1htatmg injury, Jeff Nolan, 200 yd. flyer, ~···········································: E _ Re~Evaluation t ~ « ! of Women's : ~ « ! Formal Rush t ~ . • • £ Will Take Place t : February 19 at TBA t • « t If you have any opinions concerning the t ! way Rush should or should not be run, t : please feel free to comment. Any comments t : or suggestions can be sent to the t : Panhellenic Conference, Box 2555. t ~ ~ •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Wiruuuttt 1 s Ql1entt£r$ & mailors jlith~ NOW 2 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU Tiemann's 1714 UNION STREET PHONE 374-6647 10% D'Ar jau's 1621 UNION STREET PHO[\ll: 393-0917 CASH & CARRY DISCOUNTS Specializing in Suede & Leather Cleani11g Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome is close behind with 22 points. Also included are Tom Christopher, a distance freestyler, and freshman hopeful Chris Godlewski. The team is looking forward to a better 1986 season with the completion of Union's new swimming complex, and the addition of these new swim- mers. For now, the swimmers have only memories of their old pool-it may have been a foot too long, but at least it was their own, and the plaguing thought of more long road trips to practice, and competions. The team's existence is a fine example of Uniyn's. unyielding spirit. The team has many promising s wim.m ers; sophomore Greg Geller and freshmen Chuck McGovern, Vince Nizotina and Art Spalding. Wayne Lacey•makes successful jump in Capital District meet. Women Swimmers Sink • • • despite strong individual performances By LISA FREED The Union women's swim team had another week of good swinuning this past week. Once again, although the team lost the overall meet, many of the swimmers turned in superb performances and. times. At R.P.I., Donna Gardiner took a first place in the one meter diving, as well as a close third in the 50 free. Marty Phipps also had a third place finish, in the 100 I.M., while Deb Dostie added in points with her third in the 100 free and a second in the 100 breaststroke. The 100 free proved to be one of Union\'s stronger finishes, as La uri Adelstein took fourth, and Laura Uh1 took second. Laura teamed up with Deb, Betsy Boutwell and Lisa Freed to win the opening medley relay. Jen. Whalen helped the team's effort, as she swam to a second place in the 200 free; and a fourth iii the 500. Also swim- ming the 500 was Betsy Bout- well, who won the event for Union. Pinally, Lisa Freed swam to a first place finish in the 200 backstroke, her time qualifying her to swim that event in the New York State Championships later this month. At Skidmore, although the team sllffered another loss, there were many high points to the meet. The relay team of Laura Uhl, Marty Phipps, Betsy Boutwell, and Lisa Freed operted tlle meet by qualifying for state.s, in the 200 free relay. Additionally, their time represents a new school record in that event. Marty later went on to place second ili. the 200 I.M., while Laura toe>k a second in the 100 backstroke. Jen Whalen had a long meet, swimming to second ~the 1000 free, as well as in the 10.0 free. Also swimming the 100 free were Lauri Adelstein in third, and Jean Monaco in fourth. Deb Dostie was once again consistent for the team in the breaststroke events, taking a third in both the 100 and 200 yard events. Donna Gardiner dove well, placing second. Betsy :Soutwell had another good swim in the 500, with a second place. finish, as well as s~conds · in both the relays. Finally, Lisa Freed added in a third in the 200 free, and a first place finish in the 200 backstroke. The team only has a few mqre meets this season, then it is on to the State meet, late next week in Rochester~ E\fetyone is looking forward to bettering their e>wn personal best times there. Ql .... c '10 E Ql !.... 1-· ::J 0 ..J 0 ¢ .r::. Q. - ( Pi1 Un El: for Ad rol sec the fro Ad str, :E rna 1 NB con def Fr( wa: left O:VE def, anQ DOI Wil per hei1 eve cro· A con mo: .I I ·I I :1 ( [ l ( J r [ < [ 1 [ \ I< -~ E ( f IJ s i' 'T J G v T IIIII III 11111111

Page 22 CONCORDIENSJS, February 13, /986 OJnncnrbienain SPORTS Coaches Say New NCAA (CPS) - College coaches and athletic directors predict the NCAA's new academic requirements for freshman athletes wiH create \wlli<ter\ football and basketball teams and give larger schools a sharper recruiting edge over smaller schools. Members of the National Collegiate Athletic Association recently voted 206-94 to adopt a controversial plan to require freshman athletes to earn certain minimmn scores on college entrance exams, and have a 2.0 grade-point average in 11 specified high school courses. At the NCAA coonvention in New Orleans, black educators objected that the standardized test score measure effectively will keep minority students off teams and out of college. Educators have long argued standardired test questions tend to be \culturally biased,\ dwelling on experiences and concepts associated with middle-class upbringings. \The NCAA had good in- tentions and a lousy product,\ says Timothy Walter, super- visor of the student-athlete academic support program at the University of Michigan. \There's definitely going to be a whitening of major schools,\ Walter said. \You might see other schools breaking off and a movement of minority kids to a few schools.\ The requiremeats, which wiJil affect NCAA DvisioR I and IA schools, eventually will require freshmen athletes to score at least 700 on the combined Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) or 15 on the American College Testing (ACT) exam, and earn a 2.0 grade-point average in 11 high school academic courses. The requirements will be phased in over three years to allow freshman athletes to offset low test scores with high grades or vice versa. In 1986-87, freshmen must have high school GPAs of 1.8, SAT scores of 740 or ACT scores of 17 to be eligible to play or even practice on NCAA varsity teams. A freshman scoring only 660 on the SAT or 13 on the ACT must have a 2.2 high school GPA to qualify. Then in 1987-88, a freshman with a 1.9 high school GPA must score 720 on the SAT or 16 on the ACT, or have a 2.2 GPA with scores of 680 or 14 on his or her entrance exam to be eligible. Freshman athletes not meeting minimwn standards must sit out both practice and play until their sophomore year. \Smaller schools will be more upset by this,\ says Nelson Rules Will Townsend, athletic director at Delaware State College, which has 22,000 students. \Smaller institutions can ill afford to bring in an thlete, give him a full scholarship and watch him not play,\ he ex- plains. \Only the rich in- stitations can take advantage of that policy.\ Delaware State will be doubly hit, Townsend predicts, because it recruits many of its students from major urban areas. [nner-city high school students score dispropor- tionately lower on standardized e11trance exams, as do some rural-area students, he says. \Whether it's a white kid from the hills of West Virginia or a black kid from New York City, you're going th have discrimination against the poor.\ Coach Karen Langeland of Michigan State University favors the new academic requirements. \I may have an ideal per- spective, but I don't think it will have an effect except in a positive way,\ she says of the new freshman requirements. \A smaller pool of athletes will be available,\ she con- cedes, \But I don't think that wilL necessarily give an edge to bigger schools. It will be who's better able to recruit.\ Change CoUege Te·ams She does donfirm one of Townsend's fears in adding Michigan State may stockpile ineligible freshman athletes on a limited basis. \If there were a real blue- chip athlete, we'd consider that,\ she says, estimating the school could award one out of every five schlarships to !I~ !J.IJ!f, •• ~ •• 1 ~ . PIZZI t'( ~ UYISU ~;<o . I fWJ ~ 1 $PACIETft I PIZZERIA I promising but academically deficient athletes. Michigan's Walter thinks the problem can be avoided by requiring ''universities to supply support programs. Don't keep students out. That's an administrator's way out and elitist approach.\ PHONES 372-7270 370-3735 HOME STYLE PIZZA FEATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET at VAN ANTWERP RO. SCHENECTADY. N. Y. Men's Swimming Stays Afloat By MICHAEL MILLETI Despite the lack of a pool, the swimming Dutchmen have still maintained a team to represent Union. Under the guidance of coach, Bob Magee, and Senior Captain, Brian Chabot, the team has so far managed to compete against Trinity, Utica, Hartwick, Norwich, Vassar, New Paltz, Plattsburgh, RPI, and Hamilton. Preparing in arch-rival RPI's pool, the swimmers are readying themselves for an end to an exhausting and unforgettable season, and the upcoming New York State Championship meet. Since the meet is at RPI, the Union participants are an- ticipating a \home pool\ ad- vantage. This year's team is being led in points by Andy Crossley, 200yd. backstroker and 50 yd. freestyler, scoring 52 points for the college. Second is Brian Chabot, 200 yd. breast- stroker and diver-Union's first diver in over thirteen years. Next are Mike Millett, 200 yd. flyer, and Larry Schacter, 200 yd. backstroker, each at 26 points. After a devilitating injury, Jeff Nolan, 200 yd. flyer. ~·····~·····································: ! . Re .. Evaluation ! ~ ~ ! of Women's ! ~ ~ ! Formal Rush t ~ ~ ~ ~ ! Will Take Place t : February 19 at TBA t • • t if you have any opinions concerning the t : way Rush should or should not be run, ! : please feel free to comment. Any comments t : or suggestions can be sent to the ! ! Panhellenic Conference, Box 2555. ! ~ ' «••········································¥~ 'OJ ientaun' ~ illlcan~rs & Wailurs JLtb. NOW 2 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU Tiemann's 1714 UNION STREET PHONE 374-6647 10% D'Ar jay·s 1621 UNION STREET PHOfllE 393-091 7 CASH & CARRY DISCOUNTS Specializing in Suede & Leather Cleaning Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome is close behind with 22 points. Also included are Tom Christopher, a distance freestyler, and freshman hopeful Chris Godlewski. The team is looking forward to a better 1986 season with the C()mpletion of Union's new swimming complex, and the addition of these new swim- mers. For now, the swimmers have only memories of their old pool-it may have been a foot too long, but at least it was their own, and the plaguing thought of more long road trips to practice, and competions. The team's existence is a fine ex:ample of Union's unyielding spirit. The team has many pr()mising swimmers; so:phomore Greg Geller and freshmen Chuck McGovern, Vince Nizotina and Art Spalding. Wayne Lacey-makes successful jump in Capital District meet. Women Swimmers Sink . .. . despite strong individual performances By LISA FREED The Union women's swim team had another week of good swimming this past week. Once again, although the team lost the overall meet, many of the swimmers turned in superb performances and times. At R.P.I., Donna Gardiner took a first place in the one meter diving, as well as a close third in the 50 free. Marty Phipps also had a third place finisll, in the 100 I.M., while Deb Dostie added in points with her thircl in the 100 free and a second in the 100 breaststroke. The 100 free proved to be one of UnioE's stronger finishes, as LauriAdelstein took fourth, and Laura Uhl took second. Laura teamed up with Deb, Betsy Boutwell and Lisa Freed to win the opening medley relay. Jen Whalen helped the team's effort, as she swam to a second place in the 200 free, and a fourth in the 500. Also swim- ming the 500 was Betsy Bout- well, who won the event for Union. Finally, Lisa Freed swam to a first place finish in the 200 backstroke, her time qualifying her to swim that event in the New York State Championships later this month. At Skidmore, although the team suffered another loss, there were many high points to the meet. The relay team of Laura Uhl, Marty Phipps, Betsy Boutwell, and Lisa Freed opened the meet by qualifying for States, in the 200 free relay. Additionally, their time represents a new school record in that event. Marty later went on to place second in the 200 I.M., while Laura took a second in the 100 backstroke. Jen Whalen had a long meet, swimming to second in the 1000 free, as well as in the 100 free. Also swimming the 100 free were Lauri Adelstein in third, and Jean Monaco in fourth. Deb Dostie was once again consistent for the team in the breaststroke events, taking a third in both the 100 and 200 yard events. Donna Gardiner dove well, placing second. Betsy Boutwell had another good swim in the 500, with a second place finish, as well as seconds in both the relays. Finally, Lisa Freed added in a third in the 200 free, and a first place finish in the 200 backstroke. The team only has a few more meets this season, then it is on to the State meet, late next week in Rochester. Everyone is looking forward to bettering their own personal best times there. <ll +- c ro E <II I.. t-· :;) 0 ..J 0 .... 0 ~ 0. - - p U: E fo AI ro sc:: th fr A~ st. m Nl co de Fr Wl leJ ov de an De Wi pe he ev cr~ COl ill( ~Ill IIIII

by to Q.l +- !: ·IC E (!) t... 1-· ::J 0 _J 0 ¢ .s:::. a. CO~CORDIENSJS, February 13, 1986 Page 2! ByDOUGLASLWYO Congratulations go to Elaine Pic.k for being· chosen as Union's Athlete of the Week. Elaine's outstanding per~ formance in last week's North Adams St. game played a major role in the team's victory. She scored a· career high 181Joints in has also played varsity fleld hockey and lacrosse .for the past the lady hoopster's 59~52 come from behind win over North E. Adams St. and- has played .§. strong in all 16 of their games. 0 Elaine, a junior psychology C/) . major from New Milford, NJ, Elaine Pick three years. This Delta Gamma sister leads the team in free throw percentage at 79 percent and is also the team's fifth leading scorer with 101 points. Elaine attended Dwight Englewood High School in New Jersey and was the recipient of the Women's, Commission's Award for Athletic Promise. Also, in 1984, she was chosen as the outstanding Freshman student athlete on Prize Day. Good luck to Elaine and the rest of the women's basketball team for the remainder ofthe.season. Spud Webb Reaches New Heights By PETE AGRICOLA This past weekend saw the NBA's third annual slam dunk contest. This year's winner was definitely the fan favorite. From the time 5'7\ Spud Webb was announced, to the time he left, the crowd gave him an overwhelming ovation. He ~efeated defending champion, anQ. Atlanta Hawk teamm~te, Dominique Walkins. Although Wilkin's was the more spectalar performance, his 'enormous height advantage over Webb eventually gave Webb the crown. Although Webb won the contest this year, he is not the most spectular of the dunkers .. compared to some of his counterparts in the NBA. The best dunker in the game is probably 6'7\ Dominique Wilkins. Dubbed by many as the human highlight filr;n his spectacular wraparounds, 360's and two handed reverse slams make him by far the best dunker in basketball. Close behind Wilkins is high flying Michael Jordan of the Chicago Bulls. His high flying dunks have given him a spot among the premier dunkers in the NBA in only his second season. Probably the next best dunker is Larry Nance of the Phoenix: Suns. The 6'10\ forward is the most graceful of the big dunkers. His height and ex- ceptional leaping ability rank hfm as one of the best. No list of great dunkers would be com- plete without Julius Erving. Although age has slowed the Doctor a bit, his ability to take off from what is about the top of the key, niakes him prob- ably the best leaping dunker of all time. .The fifth man on the list is Darrell Griffith of the utah Jazz. Nicknamed Dr. Dunkenstein in College, this 6'3\ stat is famous for his 360 degree slams among others. Although other players may dunk more, these five have made their name for their high flying spectacular dunks. .'-~1?~-·- ...... _.. · J:toc.key .. StaJldJngs _e.c.A.C ... DJvision 11 West .. Team w L T PCT. GF GA Overall RIT 21 2 0 .913 199 63 25-4-0 Elmira 17 3 0 . .850 122 47 19-3-0 Plattsburgh St. 14 5 1 .725 '161 65 21-9-1 canisius 13 5 1 .710 104 B3 18-5-2 UNION 11 6 0 .647 71 44 11-10-0 Oswego St. 15 - 8 1 .646 117 B2 15-8-1 .Geneseo St. 10 11 1 .477 96 106 14-14-1 Potsdam St. 8 12 1 .404 103 102 8-13-1 .Buffalo 5 13 1 .290 65 97 6-16-1 Hamilton 3 9 2 . 285 50 60 5-11-2 Hobart 4 14 0 . 222 70 133 5-18·0 Cortland St. 3 14 0 .176 46 129 5-16-0 Brockport St. 1 16 0 .058 38 160 1-21-0 1985-86 Union College Hockey Stats OVERALL P.layer 21 game total.s GP GLS Ats Pts Curt Cole 20 12 9 21 Duane Joyce 21 11 9 20 todd Flanigan 20 5 13 18 Gary Temush 21 10 7 17 Tom Hodgins 21 6 11 i7 John MacKenzie . - 21 3 13 16 Nelson Said 19 9 7 16 Darren Stephens 20 2 10 12 Scott Cyr 18 8 3 11 Chris Huntington 18 5 6 11 Dave Appleby 21 3 8 11 Tom Brandel! 21 2 5 7 Dave-Weiss 20 1 5 6 Scott Manley 19 1 3 4 Mike Raymond 7 1 1 2 Keith Robertson 9 1 1 2 Mike Forhan 18 2 0 2 Bill Snow 13 0 2 2 . Gavin Morton 9 1 0 1 Rich Preziotti 18 0 1 1 Wayne McDougall 17 0 0 0 Scott Richardson 19 o- 0 0 Rick Rockett 1 0 0 0 Toby O'Brien 4 0 0 0 Jim MacLaughlin 3 0 0 0 . Goalies GMS sv GA. GAS Save% Wayne-McDougall 17 417 53 3.12 88.7 Toby O'Brien 4 110 10 2.50 91.7 tillllllll!lllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli111lrllllllliiiHIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIHII!Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll The Olnncnroitnsru· Sports Staff welcomes any Letters or Comments from our readers about articles appearing on our pages. Selected letters will be published. llllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllltllllilllilllilllllllilllli~ll!l'l)l,~lli!lllllllllll!lllllljl!il.lll~!lll!l!~l\lli~IIJUIII~llillllll!llliiiNIIII'Imllntfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllillllllllllllllllllllll I <!rnncnrbiensis SPORTS Charlie Slotnik ' 'Looking at Sports The Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl, the NCAA ice hockey cham- pionships, and the NCAA soccer and basketball playoffs were all events Union College athletes have participated in the last three years. Most everyone at , Union College knows about Union's success in these sports. However, there is one Union student athlete equally suc- cessful that is virtually unknown. Stephon Frost, a sophomore electrical engineering major from Albany, is a professional boxer. Stephon, currently an undefeated middleweight, boasts an impressive 5-0-1 record as a professional, and was 32-4 as an amateur. Since the ave of sixteen when Stephon stumbled into the Trinity Institute, a gym in Albany, Stephon's boxing career has been encouraging. \I walked inthe gym to work out with the speed bag to get inshape for football during the summer before my junior year of high school, and one trainer saw me, and asked me if I wanted to box,\ said Stephan. The trainer that noticed Stephon is Matt Baranski, who has worked with Stephan every day since the summer of 1982. \D~votiqg myself to boxing was an Important first step. r was able to learn a lot from more experienced fighters, just hanging around the gym, they taught me some combos.\ Those con1bos have brought Stephon tremendous success. He has won the New York State amateur title once, the Empire State games gold medal, seven Capitol District golden glove titles, the Western New England golden gloves championship. Stephon also reached the semi finals of the United States Olympic trials in 1984. Unlike most professional boxers, Stephon is a full time student committed to school. \My ultimate goal is to be a professional in the working World. I have been given an opportunity to study electrical engineering at Union and I can't pass it up,\ said Stephon. Moreover, Stephon's dedication to academics is evident by his decision to · decline numerous opportunities to fight in Atlantic City because it would interfere with his schoolwork. Muhammad Ali is Stephan's idol. \Ali is a great inspiration, he beat just about everybody. But Joe Louis was the best boxer; he held the title almost twelve years.'' Stephon's friend, Mike Tyson, is a nineteen year old hard- hitting heavyweight from Catskill, NY. Tyson is already being compared with Stephon's idols, and was recently on the cover of Sports Dlustrated. However, when Tyson needs advice about his lady friends in Albany he does not turn to other ranked fighters, but to Stephon. Stephan's commitment to school and boxing limits his other activities. \There's nothing else out there. I have fun boxing, and have friends at' Union, and friends in the gym. As far as I'm concerned drugs andall that stuff are all trash,\ said Stephon. Stephon has received con- siderable publicity in the Capitol District, but still feels many of his classmates do not know him. \I want to get to know more of my classmates and that is why out of all my interviews I cherish this one the most,\ Stephon told me . This Sunday, at the R.P.I . Fieldhouse Stephon will fight his seventh pro bout. After Stephon's fight he will watch his friend Mike Tyson fight in a bout that will be televised on ABC's Wide World of Sports. 7:30 ·6:00 7:00 6:0.0 GARNET SCOREBOARD ICE HOCKEY (11-10) UNION 4 UNION 5 Bowdoin 4 Albany St77 Norwich 93 UN ION 59 MEN'S BASKETBALL (10-9) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (8-8) Albany Pharmacy 64 RPI86 Hamilton82 RPI69 Skidmore92 MEN'S SWIMMING WOMEN'S SWIMMING Williams 1 Colby 1 UNION 2 UNION 58 UNION84(0T) North Adams 52 UNION 55 UNION 24 UNION 22 UNION 34 UNION29

the by to an QJ +- c Ill E QJ ... ... :::l 0 ...J 0 +- 0 ..:::: c. CONCORD/ENSIS, February 13, 1986 Page 2:J Athlete of the Week ByDOUGLASLWYD Congratulations go to Elaine Pick for being chosen as Union's Athlete of the Week. Elaine's outstanding per- formance in last week's North Adams St. game played a major role in the team's victory. She scored a career high 18 points in the lady hoopster's 59-52 come from behind win over North .2 0 Adams St. aad has played \§_ strong in all 16 of their games. c Elaine, a junior psychology iii major from New Milford, NJ, has also played varsity field hockey and lacrosse for the past Elaine Pick three years. This Delta Gamma sister leads the team in free thro~ percentage at 79 percent and IS also the team's fifth leadin~ scorer with 101 points. Elame attended Dwight Englewood High School in New Jersey and was the recipient of the Women's. Commission's Award for Athletic Promise. Also, in 1984, she was chosen as the outstanding Freshman student athlete on Prize Day. Good luck to Elaine and the rest of the women's basketball team for the remainder of the season. Spud Webb Reaches New Heights By PETE AGRICOLA This past weekend saw the NBA's third annual slam dunk contest. This year's winner was definitely the fan favorite. From the time 5'7\ Spud Webb was announced, to the time he left, the crowd gave him an overwhelming ovation. He defeated defending champion, and Atlanta Hawk teammate, Dominique Walkins. Although Wilkin's was the more spectalar performance, his enormous height advantage over Webb eventually gave Webb the crown. Although Webb won the contest this year, he is not the most spectular of the dunkers compared to some of his counterparts in the NBA. The best dunker in the game is probably 6'7\ Dominique Wilkins. Dubbed by many as the human highlight film his spectacular wraparounds, 360's and two handed reverse slams make him by far the best dunker in basketball. Close behind Wilkins is high flying Michael Jordan of the Chicago Bulls. His high flying dunks have given him a spot among the premier dunkers in the NBA in only his second season. Probably the next best dunker is Larry Nance of the Phoenix Suns. The 6'10\ forward is the most graceful of the big dunkers. His height and ex- ceptional leaping ability rank him as one of the best. No list of great dunkers would be com- plete without Julius Erving. Although age has slowed the Doctor a bit, his ability to take off from what is about the top of the key, makes him prob- ably the best leaping dunker of all time. The fifth man on the list is Darrell Griffith of the Utah Jazz. Nicknamed Dr. Dunkenstein in College, this 6'3\ star is famous for his 360 degree slams among others. Although other players may dunk more, these five have made their name for their high flying spectacular dunks. - Hockey Standings E.C.A.e. Division 11 West Team w L T PCT. GF GA Overall RIT 21 2 0 .913 199 63 25·4·0 Elmira 17 3 0 .850 122 47 19·3·0 Plattsburgh St. 14 5 1 .725 161 65 21·9 1 Canisius 13 5 1 .710 104 83 18·5·2 UNION 11 6 0 .647 71 44 11·10·0 Oswego St. 15 8 1 .646 117 82 15·8·1 Geneseo St. 10 11 1 .477 96 106 14·14·1 Potsdam St. 8 12 1 .404 103 102 8·13·1 Buffalo 5 13 1 .290 65 97 6·16 1 Hamilton 3 9 2 .285 50 60 5·11·2 Hobart 4 14 0 .222 70 133 5·18·0 Cortland St. 3 14 0 .176 46 129 5·16·0 Brockport St. 1 16 0 .058 38 160 1 ·21·0 1985-86 Union College Hockey Stats OVERALL Player 21 gametotals GP GLS Ats Pts Curt Cole 20 12 9 21 Duane Joyce 21 11 9 20 Todd Flanigan 20 5 13 18 Gary Temush 21 TO 7 17 Tom Hodgins 21 6 11 17 John MacKenzie 21 3 13 16 Nelson Said 19 9 7 16 Darren Stephens 20 2 10 12 Scott Cyr 18 8 3 11 Chris Huntington 18 5 6 11 Dave Appleby 21 3 8 11 Tom Brandel! 21 2 5 7 Dave Weiss 20 1 5 6 Scott Manley 19 1 3 4 Mike Raymond 7 1 1 2 Keith Robertson 9 1 1 2 Mike Forhan 18 2 0 2 Bill Snow 13 0 2 2 Gavin Morton 9 1 0 1 Rich Preziotti 18 0 1 1 Wayne McDougall 17 0 0 0 Scott Richardson 19 o- 0 0 Rick Rockett 1 0 0 0 Toby O'Brien 4 0 0 0 Jim MacLaughlin 3 0 0 0 Goalies GMS sv GA GAS Save% Wayne McDougall 17 417 53 3.12 88.7 Toby O'Brien 4 110 10 2.50 91.7 liflflllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllflllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUitllllllllflllllllflllllllflllllllll! The illoncnr.llitnllhr Sports Staff welcomes any Letters or Comments from our readers about arficles appearing on our pages& Selected letters will be published. illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllltllillllllltlllllllllltllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllltllllllllllll!llllllillllllllllllllllllllllillllftllllllltnllllllntllllllllllllllllllllllltltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll OJnncnrbiensis SPORTS Cha,rlie Slotnik The Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl, the NCAA ice hockey cham- pionships, and the NCAA soccer and basketball playoffs were all events Union College athletes have participated in the last three years. Most everyone at Union College knows about Union's success in these sports. However, there is one Union student athlete equally suc- cessful that is virtually unknown. Stephon Frost, a sophomore electrical engineering major from Albany, is a professional boxer. Stephon, currently an undefeated middleweight, boasts an impressive 5-0-1 record as a professional, and was 32-4 as an amateur. Since the av€ of sixteen when Stephon stumbled into the Trinity Institute, a gym in Albany, Stephon's boxing career has been encouraging. \I walked inthe gym to work out with the speed bag to get inshape for football during the summer before my junior year of high school, and one trainer saw me, and asked me if I wanted to box,\ said Stephon. The trainer that noticed Stephon is Matt Baranski, who has worked with Stephon every day since the summer of 1982. \Devoting myself to boxing was an important first step. I was able to learn a lot from more experienced fighters, just hanging around the gym, they taught me some combos.\ Those combos have brought Stephon tremendous success. He has won the New York State amateur title once, the Empire State games gold medal, seven Capitol District golden glove titles, the Western New England golden gloves championship. Stephon also reached the semi finals of the United States Obmpic trials in 1984. Unlike most professional Looking at Sports boxers, Stephon is a full time student committed to school. \My ultimate goal is to be a pt·ofessional in the working world. I have been given an opportunity to study electrical engineering at Union and I can't pass it up,\ said Stephon. Moreover, Stephon's dedication to academics is evident by his decision to decline numerous opportunities to fight in Atlantic City because it would interfere with his schoolwork. Muhammad Ali is Stephon's idol. \Ali is a great inspiration, he beat just about everybody. But Joe Lonis was the best boxer; he held the title almost twelve years.\ Stephon's friend, Mike Tyson, is a nineteen year old hard- hitting heavyweight from Catskill, NY. Tyson is already being compared with Stephon 's idols, and was recently on the cover of Sports lllustrated. However, when Tyson needs advice about his lady friends in Albany he does not turn to other ranked fighters, but to Stephon. Stephon's commitment to school and boxing limits his other activities. \There's nothing else out there. I have fun boxing, and have friends at Union, and friends in the gym. As far as I'm concerned drugs and all that stuff are all trash,\ said Stephon. Stephon has received con- siderable publicity in the Capitol District, but still feels many of his classmates do not know him. ''I want to get to know more of my classmates and that is why out of all my interviews I cherish this one the most,\ Stephon told me. This Sunday, at the R.P.I. Fieldhouse Stephon will fight his seventh pro bout. After Stephon 's fight he will watch his friend Mike Tyson fight in a bout that will be televised on ABC's Wide World of Sports. DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK f:ebruary 13-February 19 Thur:;;day 2/13 Varsity Hotkey at Hamilton Women's Swimming at Vassar Friday 2/14 Varsity Men's Hoop~ at Clarkson Women's Hoops Capital District Tourney at R PI Saturday 2/15 Varsity Hockey a.t North Adams St. Varsity Men's Hoops at St. Lawrence JV Hockey vs .. A von Old Farms Tuesday 2/18 Varsity Men's Hoops vs. Binghamton JV Hoops vs. Binghomton Women's Swimming at Middlebury Men's Swimming at Middlebury Wednesday 2/10 Women's Hoops at Vassar UNION4 UNION 5 Bowdoin4 Albany St 77 Norwich 93 UNION 59 GARNET SCOREBOARD ICE HOCKEY (11-10) MEN'S BASKETBALL (10·9) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (8·8) Albany Pharmacy 64 RPI86 Hamilton 82 MEN'S SWIMMING 7:30 6:00 7:00 6:00 7:30 3:00 3:15 8:00 6:00 4:00 4:00 7:00 Williams 1 Colby 1 UNION2 UNION 58 UN ION 84 (OTJ North Adams 52 UN ION 55 UN ION 24 UN ION 22 WOMEN'S SWIMMING RPI69 Skidmore 92 UNION 34 UNION 29

,, , ;I ' l ' Page 24 CONCORDIENSJS, February 13, 1986 a,. +- c: n:l OJ E \0 (!) L. 0 1-- :::l ~ - (/) 0 ..J > .0 > ·0 ..0 0 0 .... .c 0 0. .c 0. Skating Dutchmen split pair over the weekend Track takes 2nd Place in Capital District- Meet Thursday, February 13, 1986 ·Skaters Struggle By JOHN BRUCE The Union College Skating Dutchmen played their final two home games of the season last weekend, as they beat Colby on Friday and lost to Bowdoin-on Saturday. The team now has an 11-6 record in the ECAC Division II West stan- dings, and are 11-10 overall. On Friday, the Dutchmen routed the Colby Mules by a score of 5- 1, behind goals from freshman Scott Manley, two from sophomore Gary Temush, and one each from seniors Tom Brandell and Todd Flanigan. Assists were given to Darren Stephens, Bill Snow, Todd Flanigan; Tom Hodgins and two for Nelson Said. Hodgins' assist was his 64th of his career, which ties him for third place on the all time list with Gill Egan. Sophomore goalie Toby O'Brien stopped 27 out of the Mules' 28 shots, as he increased his record to 3·1, with a 2.50 goals- against average. The Dutchmen received a serious bloW in the contest, as both senior co- captain Curt Cole and junior Chris Huntington suffered shoulder separations. The next day, Senior Appreciation Day, the squad· lost to the Bowdoin Polar Bears by a 4-2 margin. The Dutchemn outplayed their opponents, as they outshot them, 51-39, but the Bowdoin goalie's outstand· ing performance was the main reason for the Polar Bears' victory. The Union goals were scored by senior Dave Weiss and junior Nelson Said, with assists going to Duane Joyce, Tom Brancl.ell and John MacKenzie. The team had many opportunities but were unable to capitalize on them. The Senior Dutchmen who were honored in the ceremony before the game were Curt Cole, Tom Hodgins, Wayne McDougall, John MacKenzie, Todd Flanigan, Scott Richard- son, Dave Weiss, Rich Preziotti, Tom Brandell and Emil Catroppa. The team begins its final four games, all away, on Thursday night at Hamilton. Hoopsters Drop Two ... record falls to J0-9 By MARK VAN BUREN Rebounding which was one of the Dutchmen's strong points earlier in the season, led to their demise in the team's last two games. Last Wednesday against Albany State, Union never seemed to be able to get on track, as the Great Danes utilized multiple defenses and a patient offensive attack to beat the Dutchmen, 77-58. Union held an early lead, 3-2, when Kurt Fox hit a lay-up off an assist from Neil Winawer just 1:27 into the contest. However, this was the last time that the Dutchmen would be ahead the entire night. Albany State scored three quick buckets, but Neil Winawer responded for Union with two of his own, pulling the Dutchmen to within one point, 8-7, at the 16:22 mark. Albany State then ran off a 17-6 spurt to increase their advantage to 25-13 on a John Mracek jumper with 9:47 to play in the half. Albany en- joyed their biggest lead of the first half, 14 points, 33-19, on a basket by Mike Cinque with just under five minutes left before intermission. The Great Dane advantage remained at 14, 39- 25, as the teams entered the lockerrooms at the half. The big story was that Albany St<-. ~e had outreboUnded a much taller Union team 17-6 in the first 20 minutes of action. Union Starts Comeback The Dutchmen came out in the second half looking like a different team, at least for the first six minutes, scoring 13 of the game's 21 points in the new half. However, following a Kurt Fox bucket at 14: 10, which cut the Union deficit to nine points, 47-38, Albany State proceeded to score eight straight points to go up 55-38. The string was capped off when Morrison Teague hit a short jumper with 10:21 to play in the game. Union could get no closer than 16 points the rest of the way as Albany State curised to a 19-point victory. In all, the Dutchmen were outrebounded by a 35·21 margin. Kurt Fox led Union with a game-high 18 points. Neil Winawer added 10 points in the losing effort. Adam Ursprung led Albany State with 17 points and 8 rebounds. Dutchmen Travel to Norwich On Saturday, when Union visited Norwich University, the Dutchmen squad looked eno tirely different than in recent performances. Instead of their customary slow start, Union jumped out to an early 11-4 lead, as Rob Farento- hiHrom 15 feet · out at the 16:07 mark of the first half. Norwich scored the next six points, to pull within 1, 11~10, With 12: 55 remaining in the hal£. Kurt Fox's 14~foot jumper from the baseline gave Union a 21-16 lead with 8:45 left in the first period. Again, Norwich went on a scoring spree-eight in a row-. to grab a 24-21 advantage. Dan Roche's long-range jumpshot gave the Cadets their first lead of the game, just 5:18 before halftime. Norwich stayed ahead for the rest of the half and held their largest advantage, seven points, 36·29, as tlJ_e first half came to an end. Norwich Widens Margin The two teams traded hoops for the initial 9: 38 of the second stanza, as Norwich maintained its seven-point lead, 56-49. The Cadets widened the gap to 6()..49 on a bucket by Brad Cone with 9:20 to play in the contest. The Dutchmen came back and scored 11 of the next 15 points, including the last five in a row, to trail 64-60 with 5:00 left, as Kurt Foi connected on a baseline jumpshot. Norwich Withstood the Union surge and boosted their advantage to nine points, 73-64, as Kyle Green scored with just 2:36 remaining. After a Tom Beck basket, the Continued on page 22 Track Takes Six 1st Places By ANDY HODGKIN The Union-men's indoor track team took an early lead but ended up in second place to Albany State at the Capital District Meet here at Union this past Friday night. The Dut- chmen amassed 84 points to Albany's 102 in their effort in the fime team meet. Union grabbed six of a possible eighteen first places, · four in the first five events, to jump to an early lead, but a strong Albany team gained eleven of the remaining twelve to overtake the Dutchmen late in the meet. On the strength of the early field events and the two mile relay, Union jumped out to a 34-21lead over RPI with Albany trailing in third with a score of twelve. The Dutchmen got an early one-two punch from the long jump · where they placed Wayne Lacy and Bill Craig first and second respectively. Lacy edged Craig by one quarter of an inch with a jump of 21\1\. Scott Remillard got two other first places for the Dutchmen in the 35 lb. weight and the shot put. In the shot put Remillard easily won with a throw of 13.73 meters and was followed in second with a throw of 12.74 by Scott Stewart. The Dutchmen easily won the 4x800 relay with a time of 8:07.7. · Lacy picked up twelve more points with a fourth in the 50 meter hurdles, a second in the high jump, and a first in the pole vault with measurements of 7 .5, 6'4\ and 13'6\ respectively. Junior Rob Mohlar contributed the final first place with a strong win in the 500 meter race with a time of 1:08.3. _ Chris O'Donnell picked up two second placefinishes in the 1500 meter and 1000 meter races. Lou Tremante backed. up O'Donnell in the 1000 with a close third place finish. Todd Allen, on an off day, was still able to pick up two thirds in the 400 and 50 meter dashes. Rounding out the highlights of the Union scoring, was Bob Stenard in too 5000 meter race finishing in a time of 16 : 09 .8. Coach Russ Ebbets believed that Union could have won the meet but a strong Albany team foiled those thoughts by displacing the top Union run-. ners out of most of the first place points. In other track, news, the OTR Sports Science Program is sponsoring a program titled, \The Untappecl. Powers of the Mind,'' featuring speaker Dr. gary Gruse at the Scotia- Glenville H.S. Auditorium in Scotia, New York. The date and time is Thursday, February 27 at 7:00 p.m. Ticket prices at the door are $5.00 for adults and $2.00 for students. All proceeds go to benefit the Scotia- Glenville Little League. For more information, you can call (518) 393-5032. ( ha~ lat1 on an Fill rec isol WOl ar~ as rec de~ WOJ SaJ Ull( to 1 is( to pre fl. Sec alVI edt edt the on cor twc shi saf tirr Th• shi plo an wh Sa2 tra po~ va< tra wh Th~ wo: cer V81 po: pe( po~ ThJ em an all fou sta }. an1 wo s 1 COl Co: ra1 tm re1 the fee up sp• SOl ve COl ha Th be1 col thE be: me

Page 24 CONCORDIENSIS, February 13, 1986 (!) ..... c ttl - - E Cli u (!) 0 .... 1- :::> - :J U) 0 >- ...J .0 >. 0 .c - 0 0 +- ..c 0 c. ..c c. Skating Dutchmen split pair over the weekend Track takes 2nd Place in Capital District Meet Thursday, February 13, 1986 Skaters Struggle By JOHN BRUCE The Union College Skating Dutchmen played their final two home games of the season last weekend, as they beat Colby on Friday and lost to Bowdoin on Saturday. The team now has an 11-6 record in the ECAC Division II West stan- dings, and are 11-10 overall. On Friday, the Dutchmen routed the Colby Mules by a score of 5- 1, behind goals from freshman Scott Manley, two from sophomore Gary Temush, and one each from seniors Tom Brandell and Todd Flanigan. Assists were given to Darren Stephens, Bill Snow, Todd Flanigan, Tom Hodgins and two for Nelson Said. Hodgins' assist was his 64th of his career, which ties him for third place on the all time list with Gill Egan. Sophomore goalie Toby O'Brien stopped 27 out of the Mules' 28 shots, as he increased his record to 3-1, with a 2.50 goals- against average. The Dutchmen received a serious blow in the contest, as both senior co- captain Curt Cole and junior Chris Huntington suffered shoulder separations. The next day, Senior Appreciation Day, the squad lost to the Bowdoin Polar Bears by a 4-2 margin. The Dutchemn outplayed their opponents, as they outshot them, 51-39, but the Bowdoin goalie's outstand- ing performance was the main reason for the Polar Bears' victory. The Union goals were scored by senior Dave Weiss and junior Nelson Said, with assists going to Duane Joyce, Tom Branden and John MacKenzie. The team had many opportunities but were unable to capitalize on them. The Senior Dutchmen who were honored in the ceremony before the game were Curt Cole, Tom Hodgins, Wayne McDougall, John MacKenzie, Todd Flanigan, Scott Richard- son, Dave Weiss, Rich Preziotti, Tom Brandell and Emil Catroppa. The team begins its final four games, all away, on Thursday night at Hamilton. Hoopsters Drop Two ... record falls to J 0-9 By MARK VAN BUREN Rebounding which was one of the Dutchmen's strong points earlier in the season, led to their demise in the team's last two games. Last Wednesday against Albany State, Union never seemed to be able to get on track, as the Great Danes utilized multiple defenses and a patient offensive attack to beat the Dutchmen, 77-58. Union held an early lead, 3-2, when Kurt Fox hit a lay-up off an assist from Neil Winawer just 1:27 into the contest. However, this was the last time that the Dutchmen would be ahead the entire night. Albany State scored three quick buckets, but Neil Winawer responded for Union with two of his own, pulling the Dutchmen to within one point, 8-7, at the 16:22 mark. Albany State then ran off a 17-6 spurt to increase their advantage to 25-13 on a John Mracek jumper with 9:47 to play in the half. Albany en- joyed their biggest lead of the first half, 14 points, 33-19, on a basket by Mike Cinque with just under five minutes left before intermission. The Great Dane advantage remained at 14, 39- 25, as the teams entered the lockerrooms at the half. The big story was that Albany St ,_e had outrebounded a much l:aller Union team 1 Hi in the first 20 minutes of action. Union Starts Comeback The Dutchmen came out in the second half looking like a different team, at least for the first six minutes, scoring 13 of the game's 21 points in the new half. However, following a Kurt Fox bucket at 14:10, which cut the Union deficit to nine points, 47-38, Albany State proceeded to score eight straight points to go up 55-38. The string was capped off when Morrison Teague hit a short jumper with 10:21 to play in the game. Union could get no closer than 16 points the rest of the way as Albany State curised to a 19-point victory. In all, the Dutchmen were outrebounded by a 35-21 margin. Kurt Fox led Union with a game-high 18 points. Neil Winawer added 10 points in the losing effort. Adam Ursprung led Albany State with 17 points and 8 rebounds. Dutchmen Travel to Norwich On Saturday, when Union visited Norwich University, the Dutchmen squad looked en- tirely different than in recent performances. Instead of their customary slow start, Union jumped out to an early 11-4lead, as Rob Parento hit from 15 feet out at the 16: O'i mark of the first half. Norwich scored the next six points, to pull within 1, 11-10, with 12:55 remaining in the half. Kurt Fox's 14-foot jumper from the baseline gave Union a 21-16 lead with 8:45 left in the first period. Again, Norwich went on a scoring spree-eight in a row- to grab a 24-21 advantage. Dan Roche's long-range jumpshot gave the Cadets their first lead of the game, just 5:18 before halftime. Norwich stayed ahead for the rest of the half and held their largest advantage, seven points, 36-29, as the first half came to an end. Norwich Widens Margin The two teams traded hoops for the initial9:38 of the second stanza, as Norwich maintained its seven-point lead, 56-49. The Cadets widened the gap to 60-49 on a bucket by Brad Cone with 9:20 to play in the contest. The Dutchmen came back and scored 11 of the next 15 points, including the last five in a row, to trail 64-!>0 with 5: 00 left, as Kurt Fox connected on a baseline jumpshot. Norwich withstood the Union surge and boosted their advantage to nine points, 73-64, as Kyle Green scored with just 2:36 remaining. After a Tom Beck basket, the Continued on page 22 ••, ' ·; . I ; Track Takes Six 1st Places By ANDY HODGKIN The Union men's indoor track team took an early lead but ended up in second place to Albany State at the Capital District Meet here at Union this past Friday night. The Dut- chmen amassed 84 points to Albany's 102 in their effort in the fime team meet. Union grabbed six of a possible eighteen first places, four in the first five events, to jump to an early lead, but a strong Albany team gained eleven of the remaining twelve to overtake the Dutchmen late in the meet. On the strength of the early field events and the two mile relay, Union jumped out to a 34-21 lead over RPI with Albany trailing in third with a score of twelve. The Dutchmen got an early one-two punch from the long jump where they placed Wayne Lacy and Bill Craig first and second respectively. Lacy edged Craig by one quarter of an inch with a jump of 21 '1 \. Scott Remillard got two other first places for the Dutchmen in the 35 lb. weight and the shot put. In the shot put Remillard easily won with a throw of 13.73 meters and was followed in second with a throw of 12.74 by Scott Stewart. The Dutchmen easily won the 4x800 relay with a time of 8:07.7. Lacy picked up twelve more points with a fourth in the 50 meter hurdles, a second in the high jump, and a first in the pole vault with measurements of 7 .5, 6'4\ and 13'6\ respectively. Junior Rob Mohlar contributed the final first place with a strong win in the 500 meter race with a time of 1:08.3. Chris O'Donnell picked up two second place finishes in the 1500 meter and 1000 meter races. Lou Tremante backed up O'Donnell in the 1000 with a close third place finish. Todd Allen, on an off day, was still able to pick up two thirds in the 400 and 50 meter dashes. Rounding out the highlights of the Union scoring, was Bob Stenard in the 5000 meter race finishing in a time of 16:09.8. Coach Russ Ebbets believed that Union could have won the meet but a strong Albany team foiled those thoughts by displacing the top Union run- ners out of most of the first place points. In other track news, the OTR Sports Science Program is sponsoring a program titled, \The Untapped Powers of the Mind,\ featuring speaker Dr. gary Gruse at the Scotia- Glenville H.S. Auditorium in Scotia, New York. The date and time is Thursday, February 27 at 7:00 p.m. Ticket prices at the door are $5.00 for adults and $2.00 for students. All proceeds go to benefit the Scotia- Glenville Little League. For more information, you can call ( 518) 393-5032. WRUC 89.7 FM Presents~ Un,ion College Hockey Tonight vs. Hamilton Saturday vs. N. Adams St. Coverage begins at 7 p.m. · Sports Line- Sunday .11:15 p.m. ~·····'-> -~-······ ,,;, ,•\ ~.· . ..:.- ~,,, .. .,._., .. \'lr •. \: .. ·-~·.,:·.· • ·--\·'·•''~-·- •. 1 ·• ... c, c has latE on 1 an Fin rec iso] WOI aril as rec des WOl Saf und to l is p to 1 pro A Sec alw edu edu the on con twc shi saf, tim Tht shiJ plo: an Wh1 Sa;~ tra pos va< tra Wh1 Th4 WOI cer vac pof pee pos Thl em an all fou sta } an1 wo s 1 CO! Co: ra1 to, re~ the fe( r up sp~ SOl ve COl ha Th be' col th' be m;

.5, a 00 a s. e . '. :;-. :-. ,:> CVX., No_.l4 Wood Outlines Role of Security .' ByLORIOLIWENSTEIN Campus securicy and safety has become more of an issue of late, due to the recent incidents on campuS and the initiation of an expanded escort service. Finally, we are beginning to recognize that we are not isolated from the rest of the world, that problems can and do .~ise at Union College as easily as elsewhere. Along with this recognition, hopefully, comes a desire to understand the workings. of tlw Security and Safety Department, and to understand what ls being done to keep us as .weU·protected as is possible, and what we can do to- contnbute to this, our own President John S. Morris welcomes guests to the Founder's Day convocation. ' Union Celebrates protection. · As Cliff Wood~ Director of Security~d Safety,.:Says, \I've always believed that you try education first. H we can't educate· the . younger people,. then we hav~ a serious situation on our hands.\ . Wood's staff FouD.ders' Day Old Tradition ·Revived By GREG FAY consists of: 1~ campus officers, A tradition has been revived two of whom are sargeants, or · at Union. ·On Wednesd-ay, shift supervisors.; 4;me fire FebruarY. 12, during the . safety officer; and three full- Minerva Hour, a \Founders' time control center oper-ater.s. . Day, Convocation;' ,,_ .wa.§ There ar,e. three office~~ on per cele.brated in M;etnorial Chapel shi£1:, as well as student em-..· · : to observe the 191st anniversary ployees, In addition, h~ employs . of the granting of the College a m.u;nber of part-time workers, · charter. who fill in backup positions. After the academic Says Wood, \Weare continually procession of many of Union's training people to fill our faculty, administrators and positions Should they become trustees, President John Morris vacant ... We have a full gave a short· welcoming ad- training program for everyone dr.ess. He noted. that this con- who works in the ~ontrol center. vocation is \an important They are also trained m outside reminder of who we are and work as well as the control what we have been.\ He further center. Then .should we have a recognized the difficulties that vacancy in our full time the college community has had positions, we have trained to face this winter, including people who can step into those particularly harsh weather and positions at any given time.\ a rise in New York State's Three-quarters of the officers drinking age. Yet he was employed by Wood have at least confident that: \We'll find ways an associates degree, and they to form new social patterns.'' all have first aid training, and At the convocation, faculty four of them have instructor members were named to en .. status in first aid. do wed chairs. Professor Along with the full-time staff · Manfred Jonas was named John and the part-time backup Bigelow Professor of History; workers, Wood relies heavily on . Professor Robert V. Wells was Continuedonpage2 na~e Washington Irving Trustees Review South African Investments· By JAY GROSSMAN Throughout the letters and commentaries section of Concordiensis, a battle has been raging about personal feelings towards the South African regime. Here, we turn our thoughts towards how this af- fects Union. The Board of Trustees has set up an ad-hoc committee specifically designed to look at social responsibility in in- vestment and especially in companies that do business or have holdings in South Africa. This \social responsibility\ has become a controversial issue at colleges and universities across the United States and is now being addressed at Union; A.t the present, Union's money managers tell us that up to 25 ... percent of the school's money could be invested in companies · doing business in South Africa, at any one time. There is no definite accounting for how much is invested in these companies because Union's investment portfolio is con- stantly being re-examined and changed. Faculty Trustee Charles Tidmarch, a member of the cormriittee, said, \Union is typical of colleges its size in terms of its investment prac- tices.\ . The money managers that ·. handle investment of the college endowment claim that any restrictions put limits on returns and that they can't guarantee the best investment. Continued on.page 2 Professor in Modern Literary .anq Hi.stodcal Shtdies; Profess()r E. Dwight Phaup was named Chauncy H. Winters Professor of Efonomic Thoaght; and . ~nofessor Christina Sorum was named Frank Baily Professor of Gteek, Latin and Ancient Languages. All of these professors were cited both for their scholarship and their interest in teaching. Benjamin Demott, Mellon Professor of English at Amherst College, then ad- dressed the audience with a speech on ''The Academic Consequences.\ By showing how an academic such as Lionel Trilling, author of E.M. For- ster, has been a \shaping force\ and a \powerful and unrecognized influence\ on American politics, DeMott emphasized that \the work we do here is work that has profound consequences for society.\ The l91st Founders' Day Convocation then closed with the Union College Choir performing \Ode to Union\ and Professor Wilson conducting the Recessional. As Public Relations Director Peter Blankman explained, \Founders' Day\ began in 1946 as an outgrowth of the 150th birthday of the CQllege in 1945. It had been celebrated annually until the late 1960s when, as President Morris noted in his welcoming speech, Union's past had \been put aside.\ But about a year and a half ago, some faculty members began to express interest in reviving the tradition. One of the interested faculty, Professor Byron Nichols, ex- plained that it is important on Founder's Day to \reflect on what mtdergraduate education is all about.\ He noted that this idea is particularly important in · this, . Union's \Year of the Curriculum,\ and in light of the recent \Upheavals\ at Union. Specifically,. Professor Nichols notes all the attention that Union's changed social life has been gettingj and would like all at Union to Hconsider the central purpose of the in- stitution'': education . .1877 February 20, 1986 AAC Approves Gel- Time Faculty to Vote By JAN BARAN Gel;.Time·, a proposal to · change the class schedule at Union, was passed by the Academic Affairs Council last month. The faculty is scheduled · to vote on the proposal in March. If they approve the Uieasure, the Gel-Time will be implemented next fall term. The Academic Affairs Council ·passed this proposal in late January because it wanted the measure to go on the faculty agenda for the February 28 meeting, though it has sub- sequently been postponed. Ordinarily, under the rules,. the measure · would automatically be passed with or without a faculty vote. In this case, however, the AAC decided that the matter sholild come before the entire faculty. · Gel- Time is a propos~ to change the students' class schedule. Instead of having classes meet for one hour, classes will either meet for .sixty five minutes or one hundred minutes. The main differences in this class schedule ·are the later starling time and the elimination of classes that meet M-T:.TH-F. One hour classes would meet M- W-F and one hundred minute class~s would meet T-Th. Labs, seminars, and studio classes could be accornrnodated by combining some of the longer class periods. Many Advantages Advocates of this proposal cite many advantages. First of all, it is hoped that Gel- Time would alleviate the rapid pace of course work found in a ten- week trimester system. By meeting every other day, students would supposedly have the time to allow the course material to \gel.\ In addition, Gel-Time would provide greater efficiency and flexibility in course schedules. It would eliminate the current mid-week \weekend\ common in most students' schedules. Classes would also start at a later time (9:00 a.m.) which would help faculty with school- age children. The longer periods in the T.;Th sequence add considerable flexibility -to the weekly schedule. Afternoon labs would still start at current times so that afternoon ac- tivities would .not be affected. Gel-Tim.ewould allow two more lab periods to be scheduled thereby providing greater flexibility in scheduling labs. Finally, LGel-Time would provide two meeting times when most students would not have classes or labs for visiting lecturers, college-wide · colloquia, and committees. These meetings could occur between 10:40 a.m. and 12:50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thur .. sdays. Student Poll Taken There are many members of the Union College community · who do not support Gel-Time, however, despite these ad- vantages. Last year, a student poll was conducted in a student forum election. At that time, students who voted, disap- proved of the Gel-Time proposal: 111 for, 826 against. Those who dislike the Gel· ·Time propos!:ll cite several reasons. First, the Gel- Time proposal is based on having 100- Ininute classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays. This long period of time for class would encourage student boredom and therefore make it difficult for the students to retain material. As one student commented, ''You lose students' attention with a class that long.'' Gel- Time would also eliminate M-T-Th-F classes, making it hard for students to retain Continued on page 3 Cross·cou.ntry skiing was just one of many activities featured last weekend at Winterfest. Inside ... WinterFest is a success p. 6 Charlie Slotnik -Looking at Sports p. 19

(lJ ..... c: l1l E (lJ !... 1- ;:) 0 ...J > .0 .E 0 .c c. s e j 1 CVX,No.14 Wood Outlines Role of Security ByLORIOLn¥.ENSTEES Campus security and safety has become more of an issue of late, due to the recent incidents on campus and the initiation of an expanded escort service. Finally, we are beginning to recognize that we are not isolated from the rest of the world, that problems can and do arise at Union College as easily as elsewhere. Along with this recognition, hopefully, comes a desire to understand the workings of the Security and Safety Department, and to understand what is being done to keep us as well-protected as is possible, and what we can do to contribute to this, our own protection. As Cliff Wood, Director of Security and Safety, says, \I've always believed that you try education first. If we can't educate the younger people, then we have a serious situation on our hands.\ Wood's staff consists of: 13 campus officers, two of whom are sargeants, or shift supervisors; one fire safety officer; and three full- time control center operators. There are three officers on per shift, as well as student em~ ployees. In addition, he employs a number of part-time workers, who fill in backup positions. Says Wood, ''We are continually training people to fill our positions should they become vacant . . . We have a full training program for everyone who works in the control center. They are also trained in outside work as well as the control center. Then should we have a vacancy in our full time positions, we have trained people who can step into those positions at any given time.'' Three-quarters of the officers employed by Wood have at least an associates degree, and they all have first aid training, and four of them have instructor status in first aid. Along with the full-time staff and the part-time backup workers, Wood relies heavily on Continued on page 2 !... Q) .c :::1 !... (!) (j) > fil c > .a 0 0 .c c. President John S. Morris welcomes guests to the Founder's Day convocation. Union Celebrates Founders' Day Old Tradition Revived By GREG FAY A tradition has been revived at Union. On Wednesday, February 12, during the Minerva Hour, a \Founders' Day Convocation\ was celebrated in Memorial Chapel to observe the 191st anniversary of the granting of the College charter. After the academic procession of many of Union's faculty, administrators and trustees, President John Morris gave a short welcoming ad- dress. He noted that this con- vocation is \an important reminder of who we are and what we have been.\ He further recognized the difficulties that the college community has had to face this winter, including particularly harsh weather and a rise in New York State's drinking age. Yet he was confident that: \We'll fihd ways to form new social patterns.\ At the convocation, faculty members were named to en- dowed chairs. Professor Manfred Jonas was named John Bigelow Professor of History; Professor Robert V. Wells was name Washington Irving Professor in Modern Literary am~ Historical Studies; Professor E. Dwight Phaup was named Chauncy H. Winters Professor of Economic Thought; and Professor Christina Sorum was named Frank Baily Professor of Greek, Latin and Ancient Languages. All of these professors were cited both for their scholarship and their interest in teaching. Benjamin Demott, Mellon Professor of English at Amherst College, then ad- dressed the audience with a speech on \The Academic Consequences.\ By showing how an academic such as Lionel Trilling, author of E.M. For- ster, has been a \shaping force\ and a \powerful and unrecognized influence\ on American politics, DeMott emphasized that ''the work we do here is work that has profound consequences for society.\ The 191st Founders' Day Convocation then closed with the Union College Choir performing \Ode to Union\ and Professor Wilson conducting the Recessional. Trustees Review South African Investments As Public Relations Director Peter Blankman explained, \Founders' Day\ began in 1946 as an outgrowth of the 15oth birthday of the College in 1945. It had been celebrated annually until the late 1960s when, as President Morris noted in his welcoming speech, Union's past had \been put aside.\ But about a year and a half ago, some faculty members began to express interest in reviving the tradition. By JAY GROSSMAN Throughout the letters and commentaries section of Concordiensis, a battle has been raging about personal feelings towards the South African regime. Here, we turn our thoughts towards how this af- fects Union. The Board of Trustees has set up an ad-hoc committee specifically designed to look at social responsibility in in- vestment and especially in companies that do business or have holdings in South Africa. This ''social responsibility'' has become a controversial issue at colleges and universities across the United States and is now being addressed at Union. At the present, Union's money managers tell us that up to 25 ... percent of the school's money could be invested in companies doing business in South Africa, at any one time. There is no definite accounting for how much is invested in these companies because Union's investment portfolio is con- stantly being re-examined and changed. Faculty Trustee Charles Tidmarch, a member of the cormriittee, said, \Union is typical of colleges its size in terms of its investment prac- tices.\ The money managers that handle investment of the college endowment claim that any restrictions put limits on returns and that they can't guarantee the best investment. Continued on page 2 One of the interested faculty, Professor Byron Nichols, ex- plained that it is important on Founder's Day to \reflect on what undergraduate education is all about.'' He noted that this idea is particularly important in this, Union's \Year of the Curriculum,\ and in light of the recent \upheavals\ at Union. Specifically, Professor Nichols notes all the attention that Union's changed social life has been getting, and would like all at Union to 1 'consider the central purpose of the in- stitution'': education . February 20, 1986 AAC Approves Gel-Time Faculty to Vote By JAN BARAN Gel-Time, a proposal to change the class schedule at Union, was passed by the Academic Affairs Council last month. The faculty is scheduled to vote on the proposal in March. If they approve the measure, the Gel-Time will be implemented next fall term . The Academic Affairs Council passed this proposal in late January because it wanted the measure to go on the faculty agenda for the February 28 meeting, though it has sub- sequently been postponed. Ordinarily, under the rules, the measure would automatically be passed with or without a faculty vote. In this case, however, the AAC decided that the matter should come before the entire faculty. Gel-Time is a proposal to change the students' class schedule. Instead of having classes meet for one hour, classes will either meet for sixty five minutes or one hundred minutes. The main differences in this class schedule are the later starting time and the elimination of classes that meet M-T-TH-F. One hour classes would meet M- W-F and one hundred minute classes would meet T-Th. Labs, seminars, and studio classes could be accommodated by combining some of the longer class periods. Many Advantages Advocates of this proposal cite many advantages. First of all, it is hoped that Gel-Time would alleviate the rapid pace of course work found in a ten- week trimester system. By meeting every other day, students would supposedly have the time to allow the course material to \gel.\ In addition, Gel-Time would provide greater efficiency and flexibility in course schedules. It would eliminate the current mid-week \weekend\ common in most students' schedules. Classes would also start at a later time (9:00 a.m.) which would help faculty with school- age children. The longer periods in the T-Th sequence add considerable flexibility to the weekly schedule. Afternoon labs would still start at current times so that afternoon ac- tivities would not be affected. Gel-Timewould allow two more lab periods to be scheduled thereby providing greater flexibility in scheduling labs. Finally, LGel-Time would provide two meeting times when most students would not have classes or labs for visiting lecturers, college-wide colloquia, and committees. These meetings could occur between 10:40 a.m. and 12:50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thur .. sdays. Student Poll Taken There are many members of the Union College community who do not support Gel-Time, however, despite these ad- vantages. Last year, a student poll was conducted in a student forum election. At that time, students who voted, disap- proved of the Gel-Time proposal: 111 for, 826 against. Those who dislike the Gel· -Time proposal cite several reasons. First, the Gel-Time proposal is based on having lOo- minute classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays. This long period of time for class would encourage student boredom and therefore make it difficult for the students to retain material. As one student commented, \You lose students' attention with a class that long.\ Gel-Time would also eliminate M-T-Th·F classes, making it hard for students to retain Continued on page 3 Cross-country skiing was just one of many activities featured last weekend atWinterfest. Inside ... WinterFest is a success p. 6 Charlie Slotnik -Looking at Sports p. 19

·: Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 1.. (]) 0 ::J 1.. , Security Emphasizes Priorities Student Safety Comes First . Continued from page 1 per day, not counting medical the student security service. \I transports, after 6:00 each can't say enough for the student evening. \It's turning out to be employees ... If we. had to quite a large undertaking,\ replace student security with · says Wood, \it looks like full time people to do the job they're not abusing it, and that they do, you're looking at that's a credit to the students .. about 13 full-time employees . \ Wood also stated that there that the campus would have to has always been an escort hire ... We spend about two service, \but not on the plane weeks with them in training, that there is now . . . we've and they learn so well and so employed students to drive fast that it makes our job • vehicles supplied to us by easier. They are really : physical plant ... And they dedicated people, I have to say should get some plaudits there that.\ The student security too, because without their consists· of two student super.. . cooperation of getting their cars visors who do all the scheduimg · we wouldn't be able to do it.\ and fill-ins, amongst other : One aspect of the escort service duties, and 41 other employees . that has not been particularly (a few more have been added · · well-utilized is the walking because of the escort service). patrol. Wood estimates 10 to 15 Wood says that these 43 requests for it since it has been students cover about 67 hours a initiated. \What we did was week that would otherwise have assign more duty to the student to be filled by additional full- patrol, more. responsibility as time employees. ' far as the areas that they were One of the main checks on the checking ... If anyone wishes to activities of Security and Safety be escorted to the dorm or are their 24-hour reports. These anything they could approach are presented to the President, the students, who wear a bright the Vice-President, and the orange jacket.\ A survey is Deans of Students. \Anything currently being done to see how that happens with our patrol, much interaction there is with anything that they're involved the walkers, but the guesses are in comes on a 24-hour report that they are not being used that comes from the control often enough. In general, center,\ says Wood. In addition, however, Wood is quite pleased when there is a troublesome with the results of the escort incident, the officer is required service. \(The students) are to fill out a special report. In all, doing what we have asked them Wood believes that there have to do, which is using their heads been about 17 arrests this year a little bit more about walking for trespassing on campus. on the campus, walking The escort service has at- anywhere. They're getting an tracted a lot of interest lately. education in safety.\ Wood says that they are The escort service is not the averaging about 35 transports Continued on page 3 Returning Students Share .. Japan Experience By CRISTINA CORSO On Wednesday, February 12, some students from this fall's Japan term abroad gave a presentation. Among the participants were Debbie Carr, Tracey Doubrava, Jason Green, Kelly Larkin, Kevin Mac- Donald, Gail Miller, Ira Suck- man, Gail Tankel, and Don Voss. Barry Smith, their resident professor also took part in the presentation. It encompassed nnany aspect~ of the Japanese term at Karisai Gaidai University in Osaka. twist with letters to ''monn and dad\ read to the audience by Miller and Basis between in- dividual speeches. The first of these speeches was by Larkin about here homestay ex- perience and another by Miller told of her sports adventure with the University's gruelin~ badminton club. The third was by Voss about. his encounter with a Buddhist monk in a temple atop a mountain presented in the form of a poem. Each was personal and very special. ~i The letters to \mom and dad\ told of more aspects of this new and different culture, joys and problems, and even a few faux pas with the Japanese language, such as Miller's rendition of this amusing anecdote: a girlfriend at a dinner of 50 distinguished friends and relatives of her homestay family attempted to say, \Watashi wa Ipai des,\ in English, I am full, but instead said, \Watashi wa Ipai des,\ I am a breast. This and many other amusin~ narratives brought giggles fronn everyone in attendance. Cl >- .0 c - 0 .r::. 0. Guests were greeted in the Arts building emporium by a few kimono-clad students and the snnell of incense and inwted to view the exhibitions set up. Green tea and some Japanese delicacies including squid jerky were offered making the at- mosphere even more uniquely oriental. There were blown-up photographs of typical Japanese gardens and temples, sniiling Oriental faces, and ones reminding of the horrors of Hiroshima. Also on exhibit were · many Japanese artifacts in- cluding an authentic ancient dragon scroll, and antique make-up brush set and box chopstick holders and ceramic sake sets and ceremonial tea bowls. When most of the guests had . arrived, everyone was asked to remove their shoes and sit down for the actual presentation. It was presented with a special After this, a slide show was projected, accompanied by both recorded Oriental and oc- cidental music. The slides were taken by Green and the music by Tanke! and Doubrava. They were all beautiful and it was apparent that they brought back memories from both the laughs and tears heard throughout the show. The emotions eminating from all were heartwarming. The audience cou-ld truly un- derstand just how these students felt about this splendid country, her culture and her people. The students obviously learned alot and attempted to share sotne of their experiences with the audience. Diane Winkler, Facilities/Telephone c:oordinatQr, talks about the new Telecommunications system. ···Students Air Grievan-ces at Dean's Convocation ' Gei .. Time, Class Size Among Issues Discussed By ERIC FEINGOLD Stretching across the front of Memori(ll Chapel a row of administration offiCials con· fronted the frustrated questions of a small portion of the student population. Unfortunately, the question and answer session held between students and administration was minimally attended. However, the people who did venture forth to express C'. ·o·ll.e.ge to l.·nsta·l·.l. N·ew· . their opinions, accusations, or questions on Thursday evening, February 13, exchanged words T . ·1 • f • 5 f · with a substantial represen- . e ecomm untca .. tons ys. em. tation of the administration. .Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students; Robert Massa, c.ompletion by Next Fall Assistant Dean of Students,; Professor William Danje}s, By~UREENCOLEMAN According to campus Telecommunications Comm- ittee ·members, if all goes as planned every room in College- owned dormitaries will be equipped with a duplex jack with two plug-ins by next September: one for a phone and one for a personal computer (PC). Committee member Diane Winkler stated, \basically all College-owned student residences will be wired for a voice and data system.\ Each room will feature an activated, standard touch-tone telephone with an established number that will provide IBS- SlO intra-campus dialing ser., vice like the current four digit centrex servipe. A Telecom- nnunicatlons ··office will ·be established on campus which TeHecommunications Com- mittee member Dave Woodl stated, \we hope should be able to provide local services\ . although non-local services will be up to the student. The 'Cost of the phone \will probably be incorporated into the cdst of the room ... it will be part of the room furnishings: desk, dresser, telephone,\ Wood said. The campus Telecom- munications Office will issue each student a multi-digit code for access to long distance calls, which, Wood noted, \would prevent anyone from walking into your room and dialing long distance\ and would also be difficult to break. When a student makes a long distance call, Winkler explained, the systenn will choose the . nnost efficient cost routing, and ac- counts will be managed through the Telecommunications Office. Cost rates and billings have not yet been determined. . Students, including entering freshmen, would receive their campus telepbone numbers with their room assignnnents which' would allow for a preliminary directory for students and staff by the beginning of Fall term. Faculty and staff would be on the same system although different features may be provided to suit different department needs. The committee has also planned for the strategic location of eight to ten \blue phones'' -outdoor, weather- proof emergency phones which, Winkler said, ''We thought were necessary\ to improve campus safety. > Data Capability A data network system would compliment the planned campus telephone service. From the duplex jack in each student's room, four twisted wires would run to a cabinet on the residence floor, then to the basement of the dormitory where copper wire would connect to a complicated fiber optic link to the Computer Center and thus provide access to the five V AX's. Wood noted that the data system should provide \a clean link from the students' rooms to the Com- puter Center\ for students who own PC's and \as we look forward the future we'd like the students to have that capability.\ Wood added that while such data capability and voice Continued on page 4 Dean of Academic Affairs; Dave Wood, Dean of Residence Life; Dwight Wolf, Registrar;· and Ted Bick, Faculty Executive Committee Chair- man, comprised the panel.. In the course of the evening, all of the volatile issues relevant to the mental health of the students were discussed. Alcohol on campus, tuition. costs, class size, the \Gel- Time\ proposal, housing, and tile current renovations highlighte!l the inquiry. Addressing the crux of Union's recent fervor of cyn- cism and unhappiness, Dean Mammola spoke about the possibility of a \21 Club.\ Under the present cir- cumstances, the Skellar cannot be . used for alcoholic con- sumption without alienating underage students and in- curring liability problems. However, establishing a drinking · club in Hale House lower lounge seems to be quite feasible. According to Mam- mola, the \21 Club\ will\be established hopefully before the end of the term. Dean Daniels fi.elded a question that asked for a justification of a tuition in- crease with the current decrease in campus facilities, specifically Alumni Gym and Carnegie. According to Daniels, an increase in faculty salaries, the renovations themselves, and new computer equipment demand an increase in tuition. The renovations attracted a number of questions and complaints from the students. Apparently, the reasons for both facilities undergoing renovatian concurrently connply with the college's future Continued on page 3 South African Investme11ts Studied Continued from page 1 They have also said that U11ion could lose up to 25 percent in returns if they are restricted in investment. However, the trustees do realize that the economic screws on South Africa must be tightened because of their social practices. In response to this . social responsibility question, they have set up the committee to analyze the problem. Senior Student Trustee Andy George stated that the role of trustee is . to ''prudently maximize the funds of the college.\ George, also a nnember of the committee, said that a trustee faces a moral dilemma in answering the following two questions: 1) Are you going against the obligation of a trustee? and 2) Does the trustee uphold the interests of those who have dilnated money to the college to be used strictly for academic purposes? George said that the best possible solution to this problem is to make Union's position known as it relates to South Africa without losing a. percentage of its returns~ One possible solution might be to restrict investment to companies who are signatories of the Sullivan principles and have agreed to follow guidelines which state that they will not engage in practices charac- terized by the South African reg.ime. Instead, they are supposed'to treat their workers with dignity as if they were employees in a country like the United States. One problem with limiting just to these signatory com~ panies is that many of them sign but don't follow the agreement,· thereby nuilifying the credibility of the document to .some degree. 'Also, the com- mittee might propose to go in the other direction and allow investments in connpanies that haven't even signed for the purposes of maximizing returns. As one can clearly see, this is a complex issue and the Board of Trustees, the com- mittee members, and the Union community must react in a conscientious, responsible manner. Where does Union draw the line? Do they restrict South African investment, but at the same time possibly limit the returns on college investment? Or does Union invest in com- panies doing business in South Africa, contradicting their social responsibility for the purposes of maximizing returns on investments? These are the questions the ad-hoc committee will address in their proposal that will'come forth in the April meeting of the Board of Trustees. in fe tb th bt su CE re pr at la sc pi re cc ac tr• dE fo sa in fa in C1 th th Ct1 a I ur Sl: v~ TI th wj D1 m th wl tr• a, of m de m bu ga tu us W( Co m< ha no WE tic en ca pr vo co: ' tir eli WE USI up ho re~ on of

at of of con· y, the ession and people or of assa, . ning, the 'Gel~ and of cyn- the cir- in- a USe 'be the a a in- nd ng in a e CONCORDIENSIS, Fehruary20, 1986 Page3 Deans Hear Student Complaints at Meeting Continued from page 2 mterests. Dean Mammola of- fered a nwnber of reasons for this decision. First, he stated the obvious need of both buildings demanding repair. , · periods a week, each for 85 minutes under the new schedule. . According to Dean Daniels the time in between classes' allows for the student to absorb the. information covered, i.e, gel, before moving directly into . new materiaL In addition on '. Tuesdays and Thursdays between the times of 10:40 and 12.:50,. lectures and meetings will be held, making these activities more accessible than d11ri.ng the evening. The additional reasons cited suggest a more believable in- centive. Completing all of the renovations at once hinders the present students at Union, but attracts the new classes with lavishly improved athletic and social centers. Massa then proceeded to describe the renovc:ttions as an asset to the college when applied to the'' admission staff's effort to at- · tract feshmen. Mammola also briefly described the immediate need for completion as a method of saving money. It seems that immediate renovation of 'both facilities, insures a reduced interest rate from banks. Certain legislation will prevent these veduced interest rates if the college hesitates. The final point on this issue concerning the undesirable appearance of the campus iS· the unveiling of the new Union. The supposed completion date varies according to the source. The contractors claim that by the end of this year renovations will be complete. However, Dean Mammola perhaps with a more realistic outlook, hopes that the end of winter term 1987 will mark the end of Union~s transformation. Perhaps a proposal calling for a change in the present system of class scheduling received the most attention. \Gel-Time\ a design that schedules a clas; for more time at a given meeting but with less frequency, has gained considerable momen- tum recently. Math classes that usually meet five times a week would. convene for only three · Last year a poll was con~ ducted that clearly revealed student opposition to the plan. Most students exhibited the same animosity ,to the proposal at the discussion. Many ob- jected to infrequency of the classes. Kerry Ticknor felt that \Language and math classes must be reinstated every day, or you'll forget.\ According to another student, the present system allows for a \Gel-Time\ with the popular absence of class on Wednesdays. The Academic Affairs Council, has approved the plan and it must now be brought before the faculty, who will have the final · say. This mea~ure made some students uneasy. One individual in at- · · t~ndance suggested that a · faculty member might have self-interest at heart and therefore select \gel-time\ for its reduction of class sessions. This remark met with op- position from the panel who hoped the students had more .faith in the faculty. Kent Fox, a recent transfer to Union, expressed his dismay . with the decision that ignores student opinion. He reflected · upon his first impressions concerning, the school by recalling, \I was told this school works with students and does Gel- Time Stirs Controversy Continued from page 1 material when they previously had daily reinforcement. It was noted that a bi-weekly or tri· weekly class would be par· ticularly difficult for science or engineering, language, and calculus ~lasses where the daily practice with formulas or vocabulary is essential for comprehension. The implementation of gel time would also mean eliminating the \mid-week weekend.\ This \weekend\ is used by many students to catch up on thesis research, homework assignments, or long readings. At the student forum meeting on February 10, 1986, bOth sides of the issues were raised in order to obtain a consensus of the forum before the February 28 faculty meeting. After hearing from several forum and non-forum members, a con- sensus of the forum was taken with the final tally at tw~ student forum members for Gel· ·Time, thirteen against, and one abstaining. It was noted at the forum meeting that as of February 10, 1986, there was no clear sense of where the faculty stands on the issue. A vote on the Gel-Time proposal will be held two weeks from today at the faculty meeting on February 28, 1986. Any student who has a definite opini~n on e.ither side of the gel time ISsue 1s urged to contact one or more faculty members. Phi Beta Kappa and Student Forum Present •.• PANEL DIS-CUSSION: 11 Does Pornography Belong at Union College? 11 Panelists: Prof. Felmon Davis Prof. Margaret Shadier -prof. Suzie Benack Moderator: Prof. Jan Ludwig Wednesday, Mar. 1 8:oop.m.- Fox Lounge Discussion to Follow College Community Invited everything it can to satisfy them.\ Presently, Fox believes the administration feels tliat \The students will just go away and we can do whatever we want.\ Maureen Coleman, a senior, expressedher doubts not only in the faculty but in the student body. After speaking with certain faculty members, she felt that professors maintain an inaccurate view of student . opin.ion. Co~eman said, ''I get the unpreSSlOfi that the faculty only sees student objections \as insignificant: 'We'll lose our Tuesday party night.' Or that· students are opposed to any change.\ In terms .of the students, Coleman said, \I wish more students had been here to clarify student opinion.\ Student Ratio 13:1 A final key topic discussed was the student ratio and average class size. First and foremost, the two figures are different and should not be confused. Student ratio is about 13 to 1. However, the average · class size is between 20 and 25. Less teachers are presently · teaching and therefore fewer sections are being offered of · various courses. In addition the school is of- . fering fewer electives in a .given . term and beginning to cycle classes more, insuring their place in the curriculum. According to Dean Daniels, more teachers will be hired. The current problems with class size, in departments like biology, are not permanent and result from the school's present state of being understaffed. The overwhelming amount of studen~ complaints and grief necessitated a session .giving concerned individuals the op- portunity to verbalize their opinions. Hopefully, the ad- ministration officials in at- tendance will make decisions with a better understanding of student opinion in mind. Security Responsibilities Go Beyond Policing Campus Continued from page 2 only responsibility of the Security and Safety Depart- ment, which is also responsible for enforcing New York State Education laws and Municipal laws with regard to fire safety. As Wood states, \Security and safety run hand in hand ... \ His department does the New York State Educational law in- spections, required once every year of all universities and schools in the state. New codes came out in January of 1984 and all buUdings hav;; to b~ found, or fixed, to comply with these codes. For example, they are responsible for the labs in Science and Engineering, especially for. the hoods, which have an airflow test done on them each year. In addition they are responsible for all th~ kitchens on campus which are not commercial kitchens (these · are inspected by the city). Another fire-related in- spection which Security and Safety is responsible for is that of the dorms. This is done once every three months, or once a term. \We check the perimeters, we check the in- teriors, and we go with the RA's to check the rooms for ex- tinguishers.'' The extinguishers in each room are a brain child of Wood's. \We're one of the few colleges in the whole country that have an extinguisher in each room ... in the six years that this has been in place we have only had a 2 percent loss of extinguishers . . . and each one of our cars have four ex- ~inguishers in them ... as far as extinguishers are concerned and fire safety, we probably have, without bragging . . . far in excess than a good majority of the colleges in the Capital District area.'' Another-fire-related problem that Security and Safety has been concerned with is the false alarm situation. Yet, Wood believes that things are picking up. --\we had a serious false· alarm problem on this campus . . . That's been reduced 300 percent in the last two years.\ Deliberate alarm setting has gone down, and they have discovered how to change the sensitivity of smoke detectors in . particularly high-risk areas so that they do not go off because of steam from a bathroom or someone's hairspray, but at the same time do not compromise the students' safety. In addition to the escort .service, Security and Safety has planned and is planning ad- ditional services for the campus community. For example, they are computerizing tbeir control center, and believe that the possibilities with the new system will be limitless. They have also instituted a night depository which is for use by anyone on the campus to place valuables overnight, sealed in a bank bag. One of the biggest projects currently underway is the emergency phones, which will be in pl~ce 1 in all probability, by the begmnmg of the new school year. There will be nine such phones, placed strategically a~ound the campus complex, wtth expansion possibilities. Wood explains the workings of the new system as follows· \What will happen with th~ operation of emergency phones will be that if you as an in- dividual are walking around or you are approached or witness something, if you go over to the phone and knock it off the hook an enunciator here shows that it has been knocked off the hook and the location of that phone.\ These phones are a direct line to Security, and can not be used to call anywhere else on campus. They will, however, be · available for all emergencies whether the individual wants t~ speak to security or just knock the phone off tlie hook to signal trouble. personal safety. Says Wood, \We have a lot of material, we've made a few VCR tapes that we use for safety lectures to the faculty-staff. We have a few that we are redoing for students that have an emphasis on personal safety and security ... It's worked out fine so far.\ Wood prides himself and his staff on their attitude towards their jobs. \We have a number of things we do that are not in our job classifications . . . Everybody who works in Se~urity · and· Safety, and I'm gomg to say everybody, and I'm taking the bull by the horns here, have a great interest in their jobs, they have an interest in the college . . . Security and Safety has to be a dedicated type thing.\ One particularly helpful service which is provided to anyone who asks is counseling to students who run into any kind of contact with an off-campus judicial system. \We counsel them on what's going to happen to them when they go into court,\ says Wood. \We explain to them the justice system, how it works, what their responsibilities are when they go there, and the probability of what will happen to them.\ In response to student complaints about Security and Safety, Wood answers that he is open to all complaints and suggestions. He reminds us however, that \we are not a~ island ... I can't do some things \(The students) are doing that you think I should be doing . what we have asked them · · . ~e have to abide by the to do, which is using their poli.cies that are set, we only are h d 1 . · an Instrument to that policy.\ ea s a dtle bit more He adds, nevertheless, that \the about walking on the overall attitude towards us has campus, or walking any- gotta be a real positive at- w:f!ere. They're getting · titude,\ and that \in tM last 11 an education in safety.\ years that I have been here I think that I have seen the Cliff d W d students becoming more . or 00 responsible as they come here ----------- they're more adult.\ H~ Another innovation at Security andSafety is the policy about who pays for security at campus parties. \We were - instrumental in getting the system up so that students did not have to pay for the extra security . . . Last year it wasn't like this, last year you had to pay half and half.\ Now fraternities, sororities and the like do not have to pay to have their. parties covered by secur1ty. • Wood and his staff have alsD been trying to initiate a number of educational programs on coinnlends the students for their increased involvement and concern for their campus . \With . their help we've in• creased the lighting on campus, the Women's Network and Women's Commission have been very active and very cooperative with Security and Safety, particularly this year with the escort service.\ In all he feels that this extra conce~ from the students helps boost the morale of the Security and Safety workers. \That makes our job a little bit more responsible, makes our minds a little more keen to do our jobs.\

l ·' -Page4 Continued from page 2 service will be provided to all College-owned residences,. the College will give non-owned houses the option as well. Cable will be brought to private fraternity buildings although specific arrangements have not yet been made for the services, Winkler said. The Telecommunications Office to be established will include Diane Winkler, currently. in charge of central scheduling and already ap- pointed as telecommunications manager, as well as a NYNEX representative for one year~ Winkler added that ''somewhere along. the line staffing will be needed.'' Winkler will be working with six companies in addition to NYNEXand expects it will take a \good six to seven months of installation, but we'd rather do it right.\ The system will be custom built in Texas. \We're not buying it off the shelf per se,\ said Winkler. The board of trustees just approved the proposal that the Telecommunications Comm- ittee, estaNished by John R. Hauser, '([ice President for Finance and Administration, presented at the trustee's January meeting. It bas taken the Telecommunications Conunittee about two years to research and finalize the system planned for the campus. Already, preliminary work has begun such as reviewing for the cabinets in the residence halls. In the next month or so, Winkler expects to examine the various departments on campus ''to figure out how to best ac- commodate their needs.\ Trenching ~s planned for what . Wood calls \key times,\ CONCORDJENSIS, February 20, 1986 Students React to Gel-Time Proposlfi·on probably the first,. second, third, seventh and eighth weeks of .spring term-\non-exam times.\ Wood continued, \A lot of it you won't even know is going on, but trenching you will hear.\ Convincing contractors to work according to a college schedule, Winkler empha- §ized, will not be easy' but she expects that most of the work will be done over the sumniet break. \We're going to do our best to time it so that it doesn't disrupt the students.\ Wood said he hopes the phased-in cut from one system to the next wUlbe completed by August 15, and he expects the system will be \99 percent trouble-free by the time the students ,come in\ next Sep- tember. Winkler said, \We're trying our best to meet our time table, but it's hard ta foresee the delays ... it's . been a lot of work, meetings and setbacks, but I think we can do a pretty good job.\ Wood also expressed optimism, \I think the com- mittee worked very hard on a system that will be convenient for everyone.\ By JOANNE McANDREWS Question: \What do you thinlt of the Gel-Time proposal?\ Andrea Buzasi '8~\Ifpeopte want to take classes that meet for a longer time, we already have a way for them to do so under the present system.\ Nick Gallello '87-''No Alumni Gym, no Student Center, prohibition at t.be Skellar and. Gel- Time will make thu:f place a -living hell at an attractive pt·ice. I don't want to have to reorg~nize my time, setting a schedule for myself;_ like freshman year all over again. You try sitting through a lOlHevel Physics course for 'lO or 120 minutes and see how much information you retain. After we sWitch to Gel- Time, we should move the mailroom to Hickok House to make my senior year a memorable one.\ A senior male-\I think it . shoulJ stay the way it is. It wilt create problems for student athletes who want to take af- ternoon classes. To learn something you have to 'be taught a little at a time.\ Rich Capriola '89-''I'd.liketo have two or three days off between classes. But, I wouldn't Chi Epsilon Inducts New Members In a formal initiation ceremony February 15, eight Union Civil Engineering students were inducted.into Chi Epsilon. This organization is the national honor society for civil engineers. The new members, from Union, are John Crounse, Elizabeth Dabney, Michael Danberg, Steven Delano, Rene Lipatis, Dorothy Ludik, Andrew Menzie, and Rolond Ozols. In addition, outgoing President Maureen O'Oay and Marshal Betsy Boutwell in- - stalled the new officers for the next · year. Michael Dan berg will be serving as Vice President, while Andrew Menzie will assume Lisa Freed's old position as Editor. Next year, the chapter will be hosting a New England con- clave of area chapters at R.P.r. next fall . be able to take a twohourclass-- my attention span is not long enough.'' .Rich Bartosch '87-\1 don't want it because I play sports. Besides, I'm not paying to go_ to school two or three days a week.\ Linda Raffaele, '87---\I:didn!t like Gel-Time tmtil I saw the way thaf the classes would be scheduled and envisioned baving my classes scheduled that way. I can understand why freshnnen and sophomores are opposed to it, espeCially if they have never had any two hour classes, but as a junior I have had a lot of two hour classes, · and I think that they are a lot better than 50 minute classes . because the .professors bave i time to really get mto the material in depth.\ Katharme Nyhus '89_;\As an engineer it's better to have classes four or five days a week- -the concepts are reinforced every .. day.\ · Andy Hodgkin '87-\rt's easier to take in information in · a 50 minute interval spread over several days--you can absorb information better.\ Rodney Coldren '89-\It might limit the scheduling for science and . engineering majors. A two hour lecture might give more information than you could swallow at on- ce;\ Jennifer Brown '87-\The administration is trylng to imitate a semester system, but in a trimester system it will . create more pressure.\ Dave DeBerardinis '89-\It's bad to have too many changes at once. A routine is easier to follow.\ · A senior female- \Theoretically one should nave PIZZA 374~4332 FAST I HOT I FREE DELIVERY Now Open Late for Your Convenience. more time between. classes under the Gel-Time syst~m. l had all two hour cla~ses last term. I would like Gel-Time: better--for some classes 70 · minutes would be much better. · It'sa long enough time to get things accomplished but not too, long for a student to get bored.\ AlexKorotkim '89-''It'shard to say-1 really don't have an . opinion yet. But the idea of · having a class for two hours straight doesn't exeite me at all\ . · Mary Ann Dunham '88-''I personally like having a lighter class load on Wednesdays. Pd rather just have Shorter Classes and more of them--it's good for reiteration, especially in · language classes. And besides, . who's paying for all of thiS'? The · best part of our school i,s the trimester system. Why does everything here have to be changed? It's too .much'! We paid to go to a school that doesn't exist any more.\ Maureen Coleman '86--\I personally see nothing wrong with Gel· Time, but if · the majority of students are against it for legitbnate reasons, I don't think it should be passed.\ Kyle King '89-\I'm against it because too many things are · changing at once. A ijght class load on Wednesday gives students a chance to catch up with their work.\ -Beth Wright '88-\It seems that 'this system Would limit the number of available courses for science and engineering majors .... due to the fact that labs are scheduled in the af- ternoons.\ Jason Feingold '89_;\Jt's good having a break on Wed- nesdays. Nobody will make it through a 120 minute class or even a 70minute class-it will be . naptime.\ · Wednesday thru Saturday till :OOa.m. Serving ·the BEST PIZZA at the BEST PRICE! Free 32 oz. Soda with any order over $5.00 on Sunday ._ights

I last 70 get hard e an. a of at I'd for in The the be · We that the on't it are up the for ing af- it 01' CONCORDJENSIS, February 20, 1986 DEPARTMENT OF THE ARTS PRESENTS A DRAMA ABOUT WOMEN IN THE VILLAGES OF SPAIN by Federico Garcia Lorca FEBRUARY 27.~28 MARCH 1) 5)6)7)8 8:00p.m. ADMISSION:TWO DOLLARS Norr MEMORIAL THEATER BOX OFFICE: 370-6153 PageS

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Febr11ary 20, 1986 FEATURES The Union College Gospel Ensemble,performs in Memorial Chapel dur.ing Winterfest .. The Freshmen Ten (And Fifteen, And Twenty 0 •• ) By MARJORIE HOFFER It's about that time when everyone . is taking out the Freshman Records and adding another chin to most of the pictures. Need one add that .the predominate sex of the pictures be female? Meanwhile, fresh~ men (girls) everywhere across campus struggle to pull up those jeans that were baggy in high school. It's not fair. The fresh- man fifteen, (or in my case twenty), is inevitable. Why? No offense, food service, but the food at West is not that delicious. That's the problem. Dinner is awful, but hey-the desserts are usually quite tasty. And how fattening can one little brownie be? Especially if your friend . went up and got it for you, she is entitled to half the calories. We still drink diet coke anyway. The french fries are good, too. So, while Miss Average Fresh- man Girl is up getting her ketchup, she sees the granola. Oh, granola is good for you! It doesn't really have over 100 calories a handful, does it? And as this vulnerable creature sits down, her friends have about five brownies to split among themselves. We all know that brownies from another person's plates have no calories. Funny thing is, three brownies aren't really that filling. So, at the library-we get these hunger pangs. They can only be satisfied by two things... pizza and popcorn. All diets allow air popped popcorn, right? But the stuff at the skeller and pub just tastes so much better. Can it really mean that it's fattening? No, it's just popcorn! When Pizza can be delivered in the privacy of your own dorm-why no one sees how you and your friends all pjg out! It's so easy. God-the pizza pub even takes checks! Next issue-alcohol. Is it that fattening? People drink beer with pizza, so it can't be too bad. Oh-those mixed drinks taste so amazing. Shots of vodka plain aren't really calories, because, you're out all night burning it off. And when you're getting that buzz-it's so hard to keep track of calories-not to mention who you find yourself walking home with. Or, if the evening ends innocently, you're bored and it's three o'clock and well- hungry. You just have to go to Am~Pm with your friends so you can say something about last night at brunch. Funny how those poptarts aren't that ex-' pensive, (or the ravioli Margaret), and they really hit the spot. Besides, it's that odd in between hour, not really today, and not really tomorrow, so the calories don't count. The enigmas. Price Chopper Bin food. It's free, practically. And free food is not fattening. Brunch-it's two meals. When else do you get donuts? So, that's why we buy our sweaters longer, and wear those double chin hiding turtlenecks, and Bloomingdales does not go broke when we're home buying spring clothes. Who wants to admit that it happens to you? So, when the size you wear doesn't fit at the .store, it stays, despite the fact that the bigger sizes welcome your blubber. We dredge up the high school year books-see, we were thin then! Just to think of all the exercise people do. Doing laundry is tons of stairs. Walking to West and the library every day adds up to miles a year, (so-if it's only three who's counting)! Carrying those heavy books all day is ttard work. Chewing food is also a strenuous activity. I suppose those girls who are engineers and pre-meds get the advantage of that silly walk all the way to those far buildings. Mental strain is exhausting. Studying is very hard on one's neurons. Thus, we're entitled to eating, but should be exempt from weight gain. Life is brutal. And, look how much weight your friends from home gained! Hahaha. Tell your mother to shut up when she says your face got fuller. It happens to the best of us. Photo Club Reorganize's By JOANNE McANDREWS The Union College Photography Club has reorganized and the President, Lou Tremante, invites all students interested to join. The newly organized Photography Club had its origins in the Union College Photographic Society. The Photographic Society was started in the spring of 1947, and was headquartered in the basement of Silliman Hall for a number of years. Eventually it moved to the present location of . Haskins Laboratory (near the greenhouses, behind the Arts building). As Tremante stated, \Every club has its ups and downs- interest in the Photographic Society died down for a few years. Last term when I wanted to use the darkroom in Haskins Lab, I was told that I had to restart the club.\ The Photography Club presently has twenty members. Other officers include V·ice President • David Novick, Treasurer •Steve! Rock, ·and Secretary · Ken Newman. Members of the club spent the end of last term and this term improving the darkroom in Haskins Lab, buying supplies, etc. Notable equipment includes four operating photographic enlargers \with the potential for seven,\ Tremante added. According to Tremante, the Photography Club plans to take pictures of Winterfest, with a possible photo show to follow. Also, members take photographs for Concordiensis and the Garnet (yearbook). The Photography Club has meetings twice a. month. Tremante stressed that in~ terested students do not have to have taken a photography course or know how to develop pictures-members will show them how. He concluded, \Anyone who is interested can contact me at x6759 or Box 2181. There is plenty of room for all.\ Union ~ollege Speakers Forum Presents Phyllis Schlafly Tuesday, March 4:, Memorial Chapel The changing roles of men and women in todays society. Union Crew ERG Challenge '86 Coming Soon! ~WinterF est Wonderland By KIMBERLY HANCOCK WinterFest~ the \new and improved\ version of Winter Carnival... I wondered what it would be like. With all the ef· forts of the Union community to · provide the students with ac- tivities other than drinking, WinterFest looked like a good ·idea. . The whole weekend began with a combined WinterFest- . Valentine's Day dinner at Hale House. The dining room was tastefully decorated and the atmosphere was one of romance as well as apticipation for the · upcoming dance with the Romantics.. I attempted to discuss the weekeno' s activities with my table mates but had trouble prying my cheeks apart after taking that first bite of over-lemoned fish. After dinner I was off to the Fieldhouse, psyched to dance with the Romantics. When I arrived (apparently having missed the opening band, Pale Faces) I was greeted by two semi~officiallooking people who carefully scrutinized me to ascertain if I was smuggling in alcoholic beverages. They did an excellent job, and the students, too, should be com~ mended (on the most part) for abiding with Union's alcohol policy for this event. A rather large crowd had gathered anxiously awaiting the ap~ earance of the Romantics. The band came out, played for an hour (but that's someone else's article) and the WinterFest dance was over. As I sat sipping my non~ alcoholic beverage, I notfced that members of the · student · body had taken it upon them~ selves to amuse me. The Social Committee did an amazing job blowing up hundreds of helium balloons in an attempt to make the Field House look more festive. Of course, it was ex- pected that students would help themselves to the balloons, but I was not prepared to eyewitness an episode of Darwin's Survival of the Fittest. Students tugged, ripped and grabbed balloons down from their places, often at the expense of an M ADEMOISELLE AGAZINE says ... \One of the top 17 salons in the country.\ *Inquire about our student discounts. *SUNY bus stops just doors away. *Jean Paul Coiffures . is Your Island of .Elegance in the Capital District - a hairsbreadth 1rom New York and Paris. Jp JEAN PAUL COIFFURE0 DEWITI CLINTON 142 STATE STREET ALBANY, N.Y. 12207 (518) 463-6691 · major credit cards accepted. bystander. Earlier in the evening the huge arc of balloons had come unattached from its anchor and had floated to the ceiling. Some students, realizing that they had been inadequately assertive in their quest for balloons,. engaged their ingenuity and attempted to Jasso the balloons down. Their lasso went up once, and missed, went up again, and' again and again and again and finally after shifting their tactics, managed to rope down the arc of 300 balloons. As they reeled in the arc, the bystanders (who had apparently been just milling . around) became vulture-like. When the balloons came within reaching distance pandemonium broke .loose. Girls pushed and shoved, guys scratched an.d pulled hair. balloons went flying in every direction. When it was all over the survivers triumphantly paraded off with their balloons and the Social Committee quickly disposed of all refuse (including those who weren't fortunate enough to get· a balloon.) For those who couldn't find anything to do for the rest of the night, it is suggested tbat one take a closer look at Union'.s social offerings and gathering places for a Friday night. After all, The Breakfast Club was playing in SS016. Saturday, there was a lot of wintery things to do. For those who miss Flea Market sho~ ping, there was a Vendormart which supplied items including baked goods, jewelry and sweaters. The sweater~man's table seemed to be a popular one. Girls and guys rummaged. through sweaters in search of the perfect fit, colors and style. Yes, Mom is going to think $60 is a little much for a sweater, but when I tell her that I NEED it to protect me from the Schenectady winter, she'll understand .. Another familiar face which appeared at the Vendormart was the record man. Suddenly, memories of clear sunny days spent flipping through records outside of Carnegie appeared Continued on 8 qlppQf(lftif THf DlfffRfnCf ~ IN SERVICE ... vye listen -We care- We deliver. -'IN QUALilY o •• We ARE European - Trained In ~urope ond recognized throughout America. -. IN STYLE . . . We ARE trendsetters - Innovators of new style - Masters of subtle variation. - if fJ b a \ Si p o: o: c, a IE p b a e: a A d it p i:l ii g s' \ h d li 1< y y t1 n y d rl y d n r.; tl b t] b tl rl 1: b B rl o: u t1 n p d B v a tl \\; p F l! t1 \ ·a c \ E ,tJ t a tl c c tl Sl fl F 0. tl e g it b E t f4 t1 h s s (J a c

CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 Page7 ' ' \ ~~~-~---- ... ~ -- - L , __ _.,.....,., __ ---- --- -- _,..._......_ 0 -• • ----.-~----- ~~-~,__~- ~~--~ -- FEATURES The Bonner Years Editor's Note: The following is a continuation of an excerpt from Prof. C. William Huntley's book, Thirty Years in the Life of a ,college. By'C~ WILLIAM HUNTLEY Two days later, the president withdrew his resignation, saying, \I am continuing as President pending the outcome of tt1e thorough Trustee review of the governance ~ystem of the campus and the President's authority and responsibility to :lead.\ Meanwhile, the attacks on the president in the Concordy became even more autspoken and· ho~tile. On April 27th; for example, the following letter appeared: To the Editor, When will this all end, Bonner Agonistes? When will you cease dissembling and face the inevitable? In the past . you pretended this was merely a narrow athletic issue. Now you insist that it's really a broad governance problem. Do you seriously believe you can weather the crisis with this latest fiction? No one is deceived; no one is even listening any more, You can no longer distract attention from yourself as the central issue and your lack of moral leadership is the main problem. True, you may still manage to govern, but you will find it increasingly difficult to lead. Leadership rests on moral authority and yours is nearly gone - your departure will inevitably follow. Robert Sharlet Political Science On May the eighteenth, a full meeting of the board was held jn New York City. At this meeting, the. Dav:enport Com~nittee brought in a recommendation that Mr. Bonner's contract not be renewed. Iri a secret ballot, this recommend·atton was rejected by the board on a vote 13. to 8, following which the board voted confidence in Mr. Bonner and asked him to accept reappointment for an additional one year term. The general faculty was, understandably, very upset by the trustee decision, and at a meeting a few days later ap- pointed an ad hoc committee to draft a resolution in response. By a vote of 102 to 29, the faculty voted the resolution, which read as follows: The faculty recognizes that the Board of Trustees acted within its authority in reap- pointing Thomas Bonner as President of the College for 1977-78, yet we are convinced that the. Board has acted un- wisely iii the e:l{ercise of that · authority and we view the consequences of its decision with sadness and dismay. Having witnessed the erosion in . the respect accorded the College by th.e educational community, a progressive deterioration in the administration of the College, and the dissolution of confidence in the President by the various · campus con- stituencies, we the Faculty are forced to conclude that Presid.ent Bonner is incapable of reconstituting the sense ·of trust and mutual respect essential to leading this in- stitution. The Concordy qUickly added its strong opinion in the matter: Concordiensls is also of the belief that President Thomas Bonner is incapable of leading Union College. We cite the following points as reasons for this conclusion. (1) President Bonner does not have fellow administrative support. His Pro\\(ost Dean of Students, Dean of Faculty, and other high level administrators are among his most outspoken critics; (2) The President does not have faculty support. Over- whelming Student Forum and involved students opinion (Concordiensis as well) concur that the president has lost his effectiveness. Many of the newly elected Forum representatives have openly criticized Bonner'·s leadership;- (4) President ·Bonner's educational policy depicting Union as \a comprehensive college in a liberal arts setting\ degrades the dignity of a liberal arts education. His plans to expand the peripheral and graduate programs, while allowing stagnation of the undergraduate foundation of this institution, are not ac- ceptable. Additionally, Bon- ner's attempt to gain recognition for this institution should not have been through athletics, but rather by em- phasizing and further strengthening Union's do not indicate responsible and pensive leadership of Union College. In the same breath, we would like to thank Dr. Lee L. Davenport, chairman of the Special Trustee Committee, for his cooperation in allowing Concordiensts to be responsible to the college community. We encourage the Trustees to seriously reevaluate the Davenport report and to reverse their vote of confidence in President Bonner. Is it August 9,. 1974 again? (May25,1977) As the fall of 1977 wore on, the feelings of outrage and anger on campus showed no signs of abatement. The president tried a \talk show\ on WRUC, an- swering questions phoned in by students, but if the Concordy report is substantially correct, the students felt that their Continued on page 8 ... - ... ... Ql :E .... 10 a:. >- .c 0 .... 0 .£:: c. traditional educational programs. Specifically, at- tempts to fortify the Arts Program, enlarge library facilities, arid integrate un- dergraduate departments would have presented a more advantageous route for this college. Philosophy Forum An Undiverted Gaze (5) Since Bonner's arrival at Union, there have been a vast array of unethical practices surrounding his administration. Among these are irregularities concerning admission stan- dards and athletic recruitment. While at this time it cannot be proven that the focus of blame falls on Dr. Thomas Bonner, his lack of forceful and righteous action has eroded his personal integrity. €oncordiensis is more than dismayed with the Trustees indecisiveness and their inability to end the present campus paralysis. Trustees have the right to exert their influence over faculty and students, however, their actions By CHIDSEY DICKSON Man- rules over all the creatures that \creepth\ on the earth because he is c~pable of . Reason. According to St. Augustine, Reason was not \discursive thought\ but a \gaze of the mind\ by which man tried to look upon Knowledge. It follows that Faith was anytlling that could not be gr;;~sped by Reason. Now these assumptions would need .further qualification if Augustine did not- have a particular distaste for the academians of his time who liked to pose questions like, \What was God doing l>efore He created the universe?\ To th- wart them, Augustine came up with certain \rules of piety\ that dictated that man should The Union College Psychology Club in coniunction with the mem- bers of Psi Chi are proud to be hosting Dr. Earl Dworkin, psychotherapist and child guidance clinician, as a guest S·peaker of a colloquim series on clinical topics. Please ioin us for Dr. Earl's lecture, 11 Eight Stages of Man and Woman,\ on Monday, February 24, at 7:30 P.M. The lecture will be held in room 113 of the psychology building. T~r.IE 1\JRRP. VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3257 miemann' s 0L.I£atters & tlrailurs1ti ti'L NOW 2 LO.CATIONS TO SERVE YOU Wiemann's D'Ar jau's 1714 UNION STREET 1621 UNION STREET PHONE 374-6647 PHOf<n= 393-0917 10% CASH & CARRY PISCOUNTS Specializing in Suede & Leather Cleaning Shirts & Blot.~ses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome -. not question things beyond his \gaze but assent to them by virtue .of faith and be thankful. Pursuing Knowledge ap- parently had its limitations. However some questioned the \rightness\ of rules that restricted man's \God given\ intellect to the confines of piety. In light of Augustine's theory that Knowledge is good, these rules seemed to generate a contradiction. Rather than pursue an explanation of why Knowledge was good only sometimes, Augustine felt that such propositions only lead to infinite regression and would abstain from argument-but not without the last words: \Before God created the world, He was preparing a Hell for people who ask questions such as that.'' The Father of Christianity was not to be outdone by blasphemous agitators, so he withdrew from further discussion with a rather nasty retort possibly because he was very much aware that he had contradicted himself. It is possible to pose the aforementioned heretical question (the one that leads to infinite regression) in the name of Science. For example, the Big Bang theory was developed from scientific experimentation and speculation. In forming a viable explanation of how life came into existence, this theory touches on topics that are either borderline agnosticism or outright heresy. Another example is the seventeenth century astronomer, Galileo, who improved the telescope and demonstrated the truth of the Copernican theory and yet was condemned for heresy by the Inquisition. He was later reinstated back into .. the Catholic Church when his \heresy\ was proved to be scientific fact which seems to imply that what is heresy today could very well be gone tomorrow. Man's \gaze\ should seek to illuminate all things and not just those arbitrarily deemed \progressive\ (i.e. not leading to infinite regression). Whether or not a man is predisposed to a religious belief should not in- terfere with his pursuit (and possible obligation) to com- prehend the world to the best of his ability. It is doubtful that GQd would object to having the abundant variety of His creation better understood. And even if He did, we probably couldn't understand it. Introducing • G • GBake~· TeaGR.oom ·Candy· Gifts CJJottit gaffo:s SWEET TOO TN Gounnet Specialties 518 · 393 · 5592 A CfJuntry French Gourmet FlJod, Candy and Gift Store ••• Featuring: Baked Goods, including a birthday cake for Someone Special Snacks, Natural 9Q soda Gourmet Pizzas Sausage bread · dips. the list is endless 1 0% discount for Union College Students

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 FEATURES Pizza With The Profs I B. . . . . v· . ·. . .·. c ·. . t. .• . ' .· d·. . •J ByMAitJ()RIEHOFFER \moneyovermarriage.\That ·. onner' 'ears On' ·lnue· ... particular dinner was a definite . . Despi.te recent complaints succes~. Most students engaged Contmued from page 7 concermng the student-faculty in conversation with the questions were not really ad- ~atio, efforts are bt:)ing made to professors and the students' dressed. Similarly, he prepared unprove the relationship bet- response was overwhelmingly a discussion paper entitled, ween professors and students. positive. States one student ''It '\The Education, Strengths, Dorm Dillners where one (or really surprised me that' the Mission and Future of Union two small), floors meet with a faculty is involved enough to College,\ for presentation at a couple of p~ofessors are proving give us their time outside of general faculty meeting which to be an excellent way of in· classes and office hours.\ and didn't seem to do much to calm creasing co~unication. These another, \I never knew either troubled saters. Nor did the meetings are an outgrowth of professor before, but it was Concordy cease its constant the effort made by residence · amazing to be able to talk to attack. One editorial in October life to have informal session them so easily. You couldn't get concluded by saying that, uthe wher.e for a few hours one something like this at many most expedient. route to nor- evenmg, some professors came other schools.\ malcy is resignation!\ The by the d()lrms to talk with letters-to-the-editor columns students.. The dinners range With a little effort on the part were full of angry and blunt from the informal \pizza in the of both Residence Life, and the condemnations of the president, l~unge\ to a more formal R.A.'s, a tinle donation by the many of them downright dinner held in Hale House. faculty, these dinners proved abusive. Some of them made These programs w~re instituted that the opportunity exists for· one wonder about the ef- by resideace life, Professor students to· see their professors fectiveness of the educational Nicho~ and are sp_onsored by in a more personal light. The process as, for example, a letter the Mmerva Corrumttee. faculty has shown their desire denouncing Mr. Bonner's . Last week, for example, the to get to know the students. character structure, the letter first and s-econd floors in Those who have attended these having been written by a fresh- Davidson South met with dorm functions appreciate the man who had been on campus Professors Nichols (of the Poli- fact that despite a few large for something like six weeks. Sci department), and Thomas classes, a mutual interest exists The spring of 1978 was a (French professor and head of on the part of the Union College curious one. The open warfare terms abro::~d). The topics of Community to maintain a close seemed to die down and be discussion ranged from such person a I environment . replaced by a feeling that academic sul>jects as Gel-Time Hopefully, these dinners will something was abput to change. and Liberal Learning, to the become a frequent occurrence, The president was away a good philosophical questions of life for they enhance the benefits deal, and when he was on concerning the importance of that a small school has to offer. campus, his door was closed Reflections On Winterfest Continued fmm page 6 in my head. r was abruptly brought back to reality when I was blasted by the Schenectady winter as I left Old Chapel. The lively sounds of gospel music floated thro11gh the air as I walked. The music was coming from Memorial Chapel where BLAS-Gospel Ensemble Con- cert was tak:ing place. . As I walked toward my dorm, I noticed tw<J figures gracefully cross-country skiing in my direction. MJ they neared, I recognized ?resident and Mrs. Morris. \Bow was the skiing?\ I asked. \Very good,\ they replied, and Mrs. Morris added, \Very cold.\ As I continued on, I noticed otller skiers around campus, the most amusing of which were attempting to ski the \expeM'~ hill around the N ott. One skier was atop the hill calling directions to the others. I am curious as to how she got to the top of the hill because her companions were attempting to do it, yet were having no luck. Side-ways didn't work nor .did. the duck-walk as they fell crumpled at the bottom of the hill. As I continued on I was ap- proached by a group of four scavengers who demanded to know if I had a size D bra or a girdle. Before I c~uld give them a piece of my mind, they con- tinued ... a Volume I Concordy (of course I had it), an empty keg, an ·original coke can, the Joy of Sex book, an Ivy league banner or polyester clothing (they had no luck there). It was then that I realized that these people were on the WinterFest Scavenger Hunt. Saturday night was a true test of Union's new drinking policy. The IFC and Panellenic co- sponsored non-alcoholic all- campus socials. Sixteen sororities and fraternities joined in and held parties with clever themes. One theme (a spin-off on Burger King's Herb who had never tasted · a whopper) was Dean Massamola who has never tasted a fraternity beer and another was The Way We Were which in- cluded memorabilia from \the old days\ when social functions were alcoholic. The other two parties had equally as clever themes and all were a success. For those who couldn't find anything to do after the socials, again The Breakfast Club was in SS016. Sunday wrapped up the weekend with more cross- country skiing. Weather did not. permit snow sculpturing and Hale House was open for Late Night Bites. The first \new and im- proved\ WinterFest was a success. Sorry to all of you who thought we would be givllig away t-shirts like last year- they were sold immediately. A lot of people worked very hard to put together WinterFest (not · to be confused with the old Winter Carnival) and should be congratulated. much of the time. 1 was .now very busy as provost trying to put a good many pieces back in their proper place, and Mr. Eonner was generous in giving me a free hand to make the decisions that I thought needed to be made. My impression was that he had made up his ming to leave, and that his thoughts already were somewhere else. Then, on May 16, he announced his resignation and his ap- pointment as president of Wayne State University in Detroit. Someone on the Cona cDrdy did some counting, reporting that he bad complet~d 1,365 days in office! H~ told me at the tkne that during the spring he had been offered four college or university presidencies. He was gone shortly after commencement, thus ending an experience that was so riven with unhappiness. Mr. Bonner's fin~l report to the board in J.une .of 1978 was a remarkably short one, and reflects little of the bitterness that he must have felt: In this, my final statement to the Board, I shall not attempt to summarize the record of the past four years. - No one, including myself, can know the meaning of that · record until time and history and perspective bring calin and wisdom to our judgments. · I have tried to serve to the best of my ability. I have given the fullest measure of devotion of which I am capable to this College. I appreciate the support and friendship of this Board and am grateful for the opportunity you have given me to serve as President. May the future be bright for Union-and my best wishes, and those of my wife-go to all of you as you keep in trust the welfare of this College in the days ahead. +++ As one looks back on· this remarkable chapter in the history of the College, it is hard to escape the temptation to speculate about some of the reasons for all that happene~. Some of the reasons appear to be rational and understandable, others do not. If one tries to marshal the factors that have at least a partial basis in reason to ac- count for Mr. Bonner's down- fall, some or all of the matters below may Well have been in- volved: 1. At a very simple level, he proposed many changes in the style and nature of the College, and major change is seldom welcomed with open arms by · the academic community. 2. Mr. Bonner's stress on the \comprehensive college in a university setting\ angered almost everyone at the College, for most people wanted no more than a pleasant but distant relationship with their academic cousins in Albany. 3. His unyielding pushfor\big- time\ athletics was clearly an anathema to a college that had long prided itself on moderation and amateurism in sports. There was almost complete agreement on campus that an expansion in athletics could come only at the partial ex- pense of the academic program. In a quiet way, Union people were proud of their associations with the Hamiltons and Williamses, and to, move to a league that ha,d less academic and social prestige was not a welcome notion. 4. There was resentment among many of the more staid members of the community toward the rather free-wheeling social tone and lack of style of the Bonner administration. 5. His administrative group, esJ)ecially near the end of his tenure, was characterized by much internal ·tension and personal animosities. This factor may, however, haverbeen as much an effect as a cause. 6. No small part of the Bonner tragedy must have had its origins in the kind of positive reinforcement that he received during the early part of his presidency. His first efforts promised to put Union \on the map\; he talked constantly about better public relations, about increasing faculty salaries, and about raising money to improve the campus, all matters guaranteed to elicit approval. As suggested earlier, it was especially his attempts to better Union's athletic standing that engendered excitement and support in the community, and many Scnenectady residents felt that for the first time they had a real in- volvement in the College. Their bitterness at the fall of the Harkness plan for a Division I hockey team was a measure of their identification. All of this is to say that Mr. Bonner had good reason to conclude that the many groups associated with the College at first approved his plans for the future. Most important of all, must have been the approval of the board, and there is good reason to believe that the majority of the members were pleased with his ideas for the College; with their choice of him as president, and certainly with his promise of winning teams. It is for these reasons that some people think that to some extent Bonner was led down the primose path, and that had the board acted more swiftly to urge upon him changes in some of his plans . for the future, the story might have been a dif· ferent one. Congratulations!! Scavenger -Hunt Winners: Judy Bruhn Helene DeVri·es Hope Freedman Lori Kaplan Martina Moore They are having a freed inner at · Manhattan Exchange We hope all 11 teams had fun. I ( f l ( 1 ( ( t ~ ~ ~ 1 i ·~ t t I I 1 1 I t t I ! s E t E . 1 t t

d a s ' CONCORDIENSIS, February;20, 19B6 Page9 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY , Ecstasy: Marvel or Menace? :6y ADAMJ. HELFAND when one business executive ~took MDMA during a session, he covered more ground in those two llours than they had in two mont~ of. psychotherapy. Even with the drug's side effects~15 nninutes of sweating, rapid eye oscillation, and an increase in blood pressure and heart rate-and tbe 24-hour after·effects of exhaustion and appetite loss, and it's cost of $8 to $20 for a lOOmg. capsule, its recreational use has boomed. The effects .of the drug, depending upon its purity, are up to four hours of contentment, self-acceptance and insight without the per- ceptual and cognitive distor- . tions associated with other psychedelic drugs. abuse. DEA Chemist Frank Sapienza does not believe this is the c~se however. He stresses that,. \MDMA has not even been approved for human con- sumption by the Food and Drug Administration. And we believe the abuse potential is high.\ The DEA's claims are backed by researchers at the University of Chicago. Animal studies have shown that the drug might cause \long term damage to central nervous system structures.'' This research in inconclusive, however, and many are not satisfied with its findings. So until the conclusive findings are in, advocates keep the faith and your distance. ---..1 - I ''Damn it, Gundleman! You're not taking this experiment seriously. \ Some psychiatrists think Ecstasy, 3,4-metllylenediox,.. ymetharnhetamine (MDMA), is a therapeutic marvel, while on the other hand, tbe Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) thinks it's a nightmare. This ''new wonder drug,\ as it's sometimes .referred to, is not so new and most likely not so wonderful. MDMA. was first synthesized and patented in 1914 as an appetite suppressant but was not marketed. Ecstasy was aU but forgotten up until 10 years ago when it began showing up in some therapists offices, on college campuses, andii1Yuppie society. MDMA is a less potent version of MDA, the sroies drug known as the \love drug.\ B.otll these drugs combine some of the effects of the hallucinogen mescaline and amphetamine stimulants. Harvard professor psychiatry, Lester Grinspoon has stated that \MDMA lowers amdety levels in such a way as to make people less defensive\ and further believes that \It increases the capacity for. in- sight, empathy and com- munication.\ It is these much vaunted characteristics that have made it such a con- troversial drug. For there are factions that would like to use it in C<lnjunction with professional therapy and counseling, while others would like to use it for recreational purposes. Last summer, however, the Drug Enforcement Ageacy (DEA), slapped an emergency ban on MDMA following research associating the drug with brain damage. MDMA is p;resently listed as a Schedule I controlled substance, its only legal use being in an approved setting. One group, however, is protesting this classification because it inhibits clinical research. It's In the Genes Rick Ingrasci, a psychiatrist from Massachusetts has ad- ministered; MDMA, which until recently was legal, to 200 patients over the past five years. He found the drug par- ticularly helpful in therapy with couple$ due to its ability to diminish defensiveness and enco11rage communication. Ingrasci has also stated that Harvard Pshyciatry Professor Lester Grinspoon is one of those challenging the DEA. He believes, ''It is im- perative that we explore this drug as a possible adjunct and catalyst to psychotherapy. Keeping it in Schedule I would be a terrible obstacle. We need to get new data from the lab, not the street.\ Brinspoon would like to ·see MDMA listed in Schedule III, along with most tranquilizers and diet pills, for which research regulations are more lenient. The hitch, however, exists in the fact that Schedule III drugs must have current and accepted medical use and a low poteQ.tial for By STEVE KONLIAN The seientific community is rejoicing in what may be one of the biggest breakthroughs in genetic research. Scientists have recently pieced together a crude genetic map of the human X chromosome. The X chromosome is a sex chromosome and has lying on it thousands of genes. The human cell contains twenty-three pairs of chromosomes in its nucleus, and the sum .of its genes corn- pose the 50,000 or more genes that control human life and health. For the. casual reader this introduction may seem trivial at best. But to anyone with even an elementary knowledge of genetics the composition of a genetic map has incredible consequences. To Through The Hawk's Eye / By BENJAMINHAFl'EL .. Something New. for the Library-For all of you Walk- man fans, a mall, self- contained, cordless radio that fits entirely inside tlle ear canl, has been developed by Elwood G. N()rris, of Salt Lake City, Utah. It weighs one-eighth of an ounce and sells for just a bit over ten dollars. SQme prac- ticable uses are as a paging device, as a law-enforcement aid, for military applications, and even as an aid for cueing stage performers. As an aside- havE any of you noticed people in the library who use their WaJhnans, without realizing that everyone else can hear thEir favorite music, as well. Kee]l a lookout for potential abusers of the airwaves. * \' * How Many Times Have You Had :Beer Spilled on You at a · Party?-When you've thrown back a couple of drinks at a party, and you begin to sway back and forth, the bad news is that y-ou are drunk. (No I'm not. I'm j11st a little buzzed.) The good news is: according . to a study conducted by Dr. March Shttckit (nice name,. huh?) of the 1T niversity of California in San Diego; you may be less · likely- to become an alcoholic than those who boast how well , they can hold their liquor. According to the study, p~ople with family histories of alcoholism sway less after three or four drinks than those without alcoholics in the family. My, what an interesting tidbit of information. Truth is sure stranger than fiction. *. * * If She Does that Again, I'm a ~nna Kill Her!:-For all of you that possess.-necks that arch in pain when chalk is screeched against the blackboard, researchers in Houston, Texas, have offered a breakthrough in. _ improving your chalk· screeching technique. The research has shown that grasping the chalk just above the point of contact and holding it perpendicular to the chalk· board will produce the mind· bending noise. And people wonder where their hard- earned tax money goes! * .... * This is Scientific Resear- ch????-In his tests on the effect of alcohol on human belping behavior, psychologist Clause Steele prepared a proofreading test. He gave some subjects drinks without alcohol, and then he gave the rest up to four shots of liquor. He then asked both groups to do some proofreading of boring materials. Guess which group proved to be the most helpful? Will someone please let me know the scientific significance of this most intersting study. I can just imagine the possible impact of this test on the rest of the world. * * * What a Year 1985 Was in Scientific Achievement! -Researcpers at Harvard University, 'working under a $300,000 contract from the wonderful Department of Energy, invented a new negotiating game in ·which you learn to overcome local op- position to a nuclear waste dump. You can firtd this at your local Toys-R-Us, right next to the Joepardy and Risk games. -President Reagan was presented with the pelt of a 320- pound black bear, shot by Marine Cardiologist S_aul Cohen \as a show of his admiration for him and as a demonstration of his concern for the en- vironment. This is definitely the type of guy that President Reagan does not~ need to im- prove his public relations ap- pearance. -The late, departed space shuttle Challenger carried both Coke and Pepsi into space. marking what Pepsi called ''one giant sip for mankind. What a slogan, guys! Get these guys out of here! The author gratefully wishes to acknowledge all the sources that make this article possible. put this advanceme!lt in a more comprehensive form, chromosomes form a tiny part of the cell's nucleus, which itself is microscopic. As mentioned, there are thousands of genes in each chromosome! The research involved in such a project is both tedious and formidable. But, as you shall see, the rewards of success to the medical field tower over the hour of lab work. On the X chromosome there are genes responsible for sex- linked disorders such as muscular dystrophy but also in Huntingon's diease, cystic fibrosis, and hemophilia. Venturing beyond these clearly hereditary disorders resear- chers are moving toward a genetic basis for some heart disease, and breast, colon, and skin cancer. Furthermore, the scientists hope that the success of gene mapping may lead to the discovery of genes predisposing people • to Alzheimer's disease, arthritis, diabetes, ulcers, schizophrenia, manic depression and alcoholism. To put it bluntly, a full genetic map of . chromosomes would revolutionize medicine. Physicians would be able to tell from studying a person's \gene map\ if they risk contracting any of the aforementioned disorders, or, if, as parents-to- be they risk passing a defective gene onto their offspring. The impact of this may mean an entirely new approach to the treatment of various illnesses since doctors would be ''forewarned.\ However on a. negative note, this raises some serious and ethical issues. For example, if a test of the chromosomes in a fetal cell predict the presence of a defective gene carrying cystic fibrosis, or even a predisposition to criminality or alcoholism, the ethics of abortion become further complicated. If you were the parent-to-be of a twelve week old fetus and found out that your child would have Huntington's disease and would die in middle age, would you choose abor- tion? Clearly,this is a very sensitive issue. Viewing this in a different manner: if a person's genetic map positively identified the eventual development of cer- tain health problems and you were an employer, would you hire this person, however qualified? Finally, moving to a humanistic standpoint, if it was determined that a seventeen year old would develop Hun- tington's disease in middle age, what would happen to his life? Thus, the formation of a gene map holds consequences of both immeasurable good and crippling bad. From the medical standpoint a gene map means good because many diseases would eventually be extinguished before they could start. But from the socio- ethical standpoint, putting the expiration date on one's birth certificate may prove to out- weigh the benefits, however infinite, of gene mapping. 'UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS Show us your college IDs between 2 pm- 5 pm and receive Sirloin Steak Dinner- $5.95 Spaghetti and·Meatballs- $2.95 parties of 4 or more will receive a FREE Pitcher of Coca-Cola Sunday Evening Mexican Night Featuring: Nachoes, loaded Nachoes, Triple loctded nachoes, Mexican salads, and Mexican skins- Half Ptice with your IDs! MfiNHf\1tttN i:~~IH~~~~ 605 Union Street 3'14-5930

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 t ~· - • (1tlllt0lfbittt.Sis LETTERS FounJM at {lnioll Col~e 1877 ------------- -~--~----- The Facts on Class Size The Student Forum, at the urging of many students and faculty, has examined complaints concerning class sizes and course selee11ons in certain departments. The students in charge of this .project must, first of all, be commended. for their excellent job.ln reading the formal report, we realiZe that what we thought was a small problem is, in fact, an en()rmous one and students at Uilion are not only being cheated, they've simply been lied to. The class sizes of the past four terms in six departntents: Biology, Economics, Engineering (Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, aiiti Engineering Science), History, Political Science, and Psychology were examined in the s~dy. Frankly, the results of the study are not ouly dlsb.eartening, but disgusting. The conditions of these departments, simply do not measure up to the standards of a small liberal arts college. The entire ideology behind Union is to e[l.ucate its students in an at- mosphere which promotes personal intera. !tion between students and faculty. This has become merely impossible because of tile epidemic of large classes this term. The study has proven that the claims that Union makes in saying that its median class size is 13 are false. In quoting from the study: Biology: The mean class size has increased progressively over the past four terms from a low last winter of 22 to a high of 34 this winter. The median class size has followed a similar uphill pattern (20 to 33). During this same period, the number of course offetings has decreas.ed from 16 to 9. These numbers all seem to confirm the suspicion that the department has a class size problem. These figures are particularly disturbing in light of two facts. First, none of the Biology professors have yet reduced their teaching load fully, and second, the department has not yet been slated to receive any of the new faculty apointments.\ In the Economics department, the median class size is not a problem. However, \last winter, two Eco 10 sections were offered alomg with four Eco 11 sections, thus potentially accomodating 210 students. This winter, three Eco 12 sections were offered with a capacity for 105 students.\ Need we restate that statistic? From 210 down to 105. That's ridiculous. \Integrating these courses (Eco 10 and 11) does not seem to have 'freed up' any professors for other courses, because the reduced number of ccmrses is close to the overall number of courses lost.\ It seems as though the Economics department has not really effectively handled the course load reduction problem. They have red11eed the number of courses taught as well as diminished the quality of the courses which are taught. As for History,\ the average class size increased from 29last winter to 38 this term. The samenumber of courses are bemg offered, therefore it seems that just more students in general are taking courses in this department. It is too soon to tell if this will be a continuing trend (perhaps as a result of students being closed out of other courses).\ \A disturbing trend can be seen when examinmg the number of courses which have been filled over capacity\ in the Political Science Department: Winter ( 1984-85)-3 of 11-27.3% Winter (1985-86)-4 of 8--44.4% Not !JulY can we see that the percentage of larger classes have nearly doubled, but we also see that somewhere two courses have been lost. \The statistics regarding the median class size in (the Psychology) department show a marked increase from 22 students last willter term to 32 students this winter term. Last winter, 26.7% of the classes Slll'passed their limits, this winter term 64.3% are over their set capacity.\ \Why were the capacities of the three introductory courses (Psych 10) raised to a limit of 45 s1tudents vs. 30 last winter term \ tile study asks. \While this increase allows more students the opportunity to take the course, it would appear that an additional section would be more useful and w:ould not sacrifice the quality of ,the education being offered, especially given the nature of the course.\ There is some good to be found in Engineering. 'J'he report claims that the departments of Civil, Electrical, and Mechanical Engineering and Engineering courses offered has actually increased from 5. 75last winter to 7.50 this term. The mean aDd median class sizes both have decreased, \the mean from 26.74 to 25.38, aDd the median from 28.13 to 25.88.\ However this does not mean that these deparbnents are free of problems. For instance, the Department of Electrical Engineering and Engineering Science ( EE track) currently have 100% of their labs ~ughtby students. How can Unioq justify this? This is absolutely appalling that, for students who spend such exorbitant prices to attend a private college, they are not even in labs instructed by professors. \This is .a strange situation for a school that professes not to use Teaching Assistants. The merit flf the student lab instructors can be vigorously debated, however, many students feel short chaDged when a peer is in charge of the classroom,\ the report says. Short changed? It's too bad the report clothed downright hostility in this euphemism. The departments and the administration might refute some of these arguments by suggesting that enrollment has increased greatly. However, the enrollment counts are: Winter 1984-85 2008 Spring 1984-85 1935 Fall1985-86 2042 Winter 1985-86 2024 This hardly shows an increase in enrollment that is wortlty of arguing about. Also, they might counter by saying that the report doesn't count theses and independent projects, but only recitation classes. One can. also see that this too is hardly a credible argument since all of the increases are within these elass recitations, not independent studies or theses. The~:e are, quite obviously, marked increases in our lecture classes. The problem here does not simply stop at the surface. Yes, we're upset about our large class sizes. And no, we don't like the lack of personal at- tention we get now as a result of these larger classes. But, the problem does not end here, the problem goes much deeper. We now are forced to question the ideology/morality of the very institution which we are attending. What kind of school are we being educated at? The College cannot continue to hold its head up aad say to prospective students \Come to Union if you want small classes and personal atteotion,\ because there seems to be a large gap between what \they\ offer aiid what \they\ actually give us. ' The q11estion here is: who deceived us when we were lniJUiring about admission here? And who is continuing to .deceive the prospectives? Someone should put an end to it aU. lf Union is not going to give its studeots small classes (except in the case of a thesis or project), then it should not claim to do so. · It's easy enough to stop this all now. Stop living this lie, and prevent future students from being disillusioned by a school they believe in. But, who is going to give us, the students of. here and now, some answers? Why area't we getting what we were told we would get? For a graphic representation of these results, please turn to the bottom of p.14 Professor Clarifies lss·ue To the Editor: Permit me to correct an error in the passage dealing with the Bonner presidency extracted from Professor Huntley's book. Huntley writes: \Interestingly Gado concluded with a request that the custom of annual reviews of each faculty be extended to include an im- mediate review of the president's stewardship.\ But. that was not qq.ite what I was requesting. As background to the correction, I should mention that the \annual custom\ had been of recent vintage. In the mid-8ixties, a group of students decided to imitate the pra:ctice at Harvard (among otner schools) of publishing an annual guide appraising faculty. Initially, I believe, the questionnaires were distributed outside of class, but within a couple of years, the editors of this publication, called Linebacker, requested that faculty distribute the evaluation forms in clas~. A spirited discussion of the matter' oc- . curred at the next faculty meeting. Among others, Professor Murphy warned that such a practice might soon lead to the statistical use of the results in determining tenure, promotions, arid salary raises. Dean Lichtermann promptly derided such suspicions. Never at Union! Certainly no~ a& long as he was dean. Linebacker was only to be used by students. It would also serve to alert faculty to problems that might exist in tneir teaching. But that the principle of peer' review would he compromised by dependence on what, in some instances, would be on}y p-opularity polls was a preposterous fear~ Withiq a couple of years, Unebacker was defunct, but student evaluations were fast becoming an institutionalized part of faculty review. (By the way, Lichtermann was still dean.) In the fall of 1970, during the period of student insurrectiops, a committee drawn from all campus constituencies was appointed to study changes in our governance structure. (Professor Huntley and I were two of the faculty members who served on that commitlee.) Among its numerous recom- mendations was a proposal that faculty evaluate members of the administration. The logic was self-evident: if student evaluation. served for the bet- terment of faculty, faculty evaluation would serve for the betterment of the ad- ministration. The proposal was approved by the faculty and then by the . trustees. The evaluation of the president, the dean, and other members of the administration who dealt with . faculty became an annual rite. When Bonner arriv~d, he asked the faculty to suspend its evaluation of the administration for two years to give him time to establish new policies and reorganize his staff. \The request was granted. (Of course, student evaluation of faculty continued, and steadily assmned a more puissant role.) By the time I wrote my letter, that two-year period had ex~ pired. I was calling upon Bonner to honor his Word. I knew that he would not keep it. (\Bonner\ and \honor\ rhymed, but that was the only connection between the two.} Denied. its legitimate right to appraise the president's per- formance, the faculty later conducted its own \evaluation\--in ·which 107 faculty members {plus seven others who sent their ballots a day late) expressed \no. con- fidence\ in the president. (Members of the ad- ministration--who were also appalled by Bonner's practices- subsequently conducted their own confidence vote. They sent their ballots to Huntley-who then obeyed Bonner's directive to suppress the results. ) Although the rule regarding faculty evaluation of .the ad- ministration . was never rescinded, it was never rein- stituted. Frank Gada Books Found Fast To the Editors: In reference to the recent editorial \We're Bound,\ I would like to make several points about interlibrary loan at Union College. Many college and university libraries impose artificial constraints, such as internal quotas, fees, and geographical restrictions, on interlibrary loan to un- dergraduates, No interlibrary loan restrictions exist at Schaffer Library, with the exception of quotas required by United States copyright law. The diverse scholarly student and faculty research at Union would be impeded seriously by artificial limitations on in- terlibrary loan. Unt1l we in The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce the following Colloquium for Winter, 1986 Should Computer Programs Be ~wned? February 28 (Friday) 3:30P.M. Deborah Johnson Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Troy, New York . All colloquia are held in the umanities Bldg., Rm. 213. RECEPTIONS AF· TERWARDS HELD IN HUMANITIES LOUNGE. Colloquia are open to the public; for further in- formation call Marianne Snowden (518) 370-6376. interlibrary loan are infOrmed that an item is no · longer needed, we continue to search for it until we can obtain it or until all possible locations for the title are exhausted. Repeated requests take time: if a book is not on tne shelf at the first library from which we request it, we continue to ask for the title from those libraries closest to us until we can secure it for our patron. In extreme cases, this means going as far afield as Angola or the Soviet Union (from both of which countries we have received interlibrary loan items). Despite this policy of not abbreviating the interlibrary loan request process ar- bitrarily, our average tur- naround time (day of request to day of receipt) for interlibrary loan material is five working days, and our fill rate is 97.2 percent. Compare this to the eleven day average turnaround time throughout New York State, and the state average fill rate of 91 percent. We in interlibrary loan try to support research in as timely a fashion as possible. Great ideas may come when they are least expected, and -they may indeed flee; but persons of common sense /can rediscover the \basic\' of taking notes before their thoughts escape them. Sincerely Cheryl LaGuardia Assistant Professor, Head of Interlibrary Lo::m. Schaffe'r Library

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 <!LIIltOlfbitttsfs LETTERS FoiUifkci at { lmon CoiJec~ 1877 ----------~- --------- The Facts on Class Size The Student Forum, at the u.~ging of many students and faculty has examined complaints concerning class sizes and course selections in c~rtain departments. The students in charge of this project must, first of all be commended for their excellent job.In reading the formal report, we re~lize that what we thought was a small pr'>blem is, in fact, an enormous one and students at Union are not only being cheated, they've simply been lied to. The class sizes of the past .four terms in six departments: Biology, Economics, Engineering (Civil, Electrical, Mechanical, and Engineering Science), History, Political Science, and Psychology were examined in the s~dy. Frankly, the results of the study are not only disheartening, but disgusting. The conditions of these departments, simply do not measure up to the standards of a small liberal arts college. The entire ideology behind Union is to eclucate its students in an at- mosphere which promotes personal intera ·tion between students and faculty. This has become merely impossible because of the epidemic of large classes this term. The study has proven that the claims that Union makes in saying that its median class size is 13 are false. In quoting from the study: Biology: The mean class size has increased progressively over the past four terms from a low last winter of 22 to a high of 34 this winter. The median class size has followed a similar uphill pattern ( 20 to 33). During this same period, the number of course offerings has decreased from 16 to 9. These numbers all seem to confirm the suspicion that the department has a class size problem. These figures are particularly disturbing in light of two facts. First, none of the Biology professors have yet reduced their teaching load fully, and second, the department has not yet been slated to receive any of the new faculty apointments.\ In the Economics department, the median class size is not a problem. However,\ last winter, two Eco 10 sections were offered along with four Eco 11 sections, thus potentially accomodating 210 students. This winter, three Eco 12 sections were offered with a capacity for 105 students.\ Need we restate that statistic? From 210 down to 105. That's ridiculous. \Integrating these courses (Eco 10 and 11) does not seem to have 'freed up' any professors for other courses, because the reduced number of courses is close to the overall number of com·ses lost.\ It seems as though the Economics department has not really effectively handled the course load reduction problem. They have reduced the number of courses taught as well as diminished the quality of the courses which are taught. As for History,\ the average class size increased from 29last winter to 38 this term. The same number of courses are being offered, therefore it seems that just more students in general are taking courses in this department. It is too soon to tell if this will be a continuing trend (perhaps as a result of students being closed out of other courses).\ \A disturbing trend can be seen when examining the number of courses which have been filled over capacity\ in the Political Science Department: Winter ( 1984-85 }-3 of 11-27.3% Winter (1985-86)--4 of 8--44.4% Not only can we see that the percentage of larger classes have nearly doubled, but we also see that somewhere two courses have been lost. \The statistics regarding the median class size in (the Psychology) department show a marked increase from 22 students last winter term to 32 students this winter term. Last winter, 26.7% of the classes surpassed their limits, this winter term 64.3% are over their set capacity.\ \Why were the capacities of the three introductory courses (Psych 10) raised to a limit of 45 s'tudents vs. 30 last winter term \ the study asks. \While this increase allows more students the opportunity to take the course, it would appear that an additional section would be more useful and would not sacrifice the quality of the education being offered, especially given the nature of the course.\ There is some good to be found in Engineering. The report claims that the departments of Civil, Electrical, and Mechanical Engineering and Engineering courses offered has actually increased from 5. 75last winter to 7.50 this term. The mean and median class sizes both have decreased, \the mean from 26.74 to 25.38, and the median from 28.13 to 25.88.\ However this does not mean that these departments are free of problems. For instance, the Department of Electrical Engineering and Engineering Science (EE track) currently have 100% of their labs taught by students. How can Union justify this? This is absolutely appalling that, for students who spend such exorbitant prices to attend a private college, they are not even in labs instructed by professors. \This is a strange situation for a school that professes not to use Teaching Assistants. The merit of the student lab instructors can be vigorously debated, however, many students feel short changed when a peer is in charge of the classroom,\ the report says. Short changed? It's too bad the report clothed downright hostility in this euphemism. The departments and the administration might refute some of these arguments by suggesting that eurollment has increased greatly. However, the eurollment counts are: Winter 1984-85 2008 Spring 1984-85 1935 Falll985-86 2042 Winter 1985-86 2024 This hardly shows an increase in enrollment that is worthy of arguing about. Also, they might counter by saying that the report doesn't count theses and independent projects, but only recitation classes. One can also see that this too is hardly a credible argument since all of the increases are within these class recitations, not independent studies or theses. There are, quite obviously, marked increases in our lecture classes. The problem here does not simply stop at the surface. Yes, we're upset about our large class sizes. And no, we don't like the lack of personal at- tention we get now as a result of these larger classes. But, the problem does not end here, the problem goes much deeper. We now are forced to question the ideology/morality of the very institution which we are attending. What kind of school are we being educated at? The College cannot continue to hold its head up and say to prospective students \Come to Union if you want small classes and personal attention,\ because there seems to be a large gap between what \they\ offer and what \they\ actually give us. The question here is: who deceived us when we were inquiring about admission here? And who is continuing to deceive the prospectives? Someone should put an end to it all. If Union is not going to give its students small classes (except in the case of a thesis or project), then it should not claim to do so. It's easy enough to stop this all now. Stop living this lie, and prevent future students from being disillusioned by a school they believe in. But, who is going to give us, the students of here and now, some answers? Why aren't we getting what we were told we would get? For a graphic representation of these results, please turn to the bottom of p. 14 Professor Clarifies Issue To the Editor: Permit me to correct an error in the passage dealing with the Bonner presidency extracted from Professor HWltley's book. Huntley writes: \Interestingly Gado concluded with a request that the custom of annual reviews of each faculty be extended to include an im- mediate review of the president's stewardship.\ But that was not quite what I was requesting. As background to the correction, I should mention that the \annual custom\ had been of recent vintage. In the mid-Sixties, a group of students decided to imitate the practice at Harvard (among other schools) of publishing an annual guide appraising faculty. Initially, I believe, the questionnaires were distributed outside of class, but within a couple of years, the editors of this publication, called Linebacker, requested that faculty distribute the evaluation forms in class. A spirited discussion of the matter oc- curred at the next facuity meeting. Among others, Professor Murphy warned that such a practice might soon lead to the statistical use of the results in determining tenure, promotions, and salary raises. Dean Lichtermann promptly derided such suspicions. Never at Union! Certainly not as long as he was dean. Linebacker was only to he used by students. It would also serve to alert faculty to problems that might exist in their teaching. But that the principle of peer review would be compn>mised by dependence on what, in some instances, would be only popularity polls was a preposterous fear. Within a couple of years Linebacker was defunct, but student evaluations were fast becoming an institutionalized part of faculty review. (By the way, Lichtermann was still dean.) In the fall of 1970, during the period of student insurrectiops, a committee drawn from all campus constituencies was appointed to study changes in our governance structure. (Professor Huntley and I were two of the faculty members who served on that committee.) Among its numerous recom- mendations was a proposal that faculty evaluate members of the administration. The logic was self-evident: if student evaluation. served for the bet- terment of faculty, faculty evaluation would serve for the betterment of the ad- ministration. The proposal was approved by the faculty and then by the trustees. The evaluation of the president, the dean, and other members of the administration who dealt with faculty became an annual rite. When Bonner arrived, he asked the faculty to suspend its evaluation of the administration for two years to give him time to establish new policies and reorganize his staff. The request was granted. (Of course, student evaluation of faculty continued, and steadily assumed a more puissant role.) By the time I wrote my letter, that two--year period had ex- pired. I was calling upon Bonner to honor his word. I knew that he would not keep it. (\Bonner\ and \honor\ rhymed, but that was the only connection between the two.) Denied its legitimate right to appraise the president's per- formance, the faculty later conducted its own \evaluation\--in which 107 faculty members (plus seven others who sent their ballots a day late) expressed \no con- fidence'' in the president. (Members of the ad- ministration--who were also appalled by Bonner's practices- subsequently conducted their own confidence vote. They sent their ballots to Huntley-who then obeyed Bonner's directive to suppress the results.) Although the rule regarding faculty evaluation of the ad- ministration was never rescinded, it was never rein- stituted. FrankGado Books Found Fast To the Editors: In reference to the recent editorial \We're Bound \ I ' would like to make several points about interlibrary loan at Union College. Many college and university libraries impose artificial constraints, such as internal quotas, fees, and geographical restrictions, on interlibrary loan to un- dergraduates. No interlibrary loan restrictions exist at Schaffer Library, with the exception of quotas required by United States copyright law. The diverse scholarly student and faculty research at Union would be impeded seriously by artificial limitations on in- terlibrary loan. Until we in . . .----.---- . ' ' The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce the following Colloquium for Winter, 1986 Should Computer Programs Be Owned? February 28 (Friday) 3:30P.M. Deborah Johnson Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Troy, New York All colloquia are held in the Humanities Bldg., Rm. 213. · RECEPTIONS AF· TERWARDS HELD IN HUMANITIES LOUNGE. Colloquia are open to the public; for further in· formation call Marianne Snowden (518) 370·6376. .. ·~. ·. ; ~ . ' ' ~ ' , . \• ' . .'· . . ' . ~ ' ' .. . ' interlibrary loan are informed that an item is no longer needed, we continue to search for it until we can obtain it or until all possible locations for the title are exhausted. Repeated requests take time: if a book is not on the shelf at the first library from which we request it, we continue to ask for the title from those libraries closest to us until we can secure it for our patron. In extreme cases, this means going as far afield as Angola or the Soviet Union (from both of which countries we have received interlibrary loan items). Despite this policy of not abbreviating the interlibrary loan request process ar- bitrarily, our average tur- naround time (day of request to day of receipt) for interlibrary loan material is five working days, and our fill rate is 97.2 percent. Compare this to the eleven day average turnaround time throughout New York State, and the state average fill rate of 91 percent. We in interlibrary loan try to support research in as timely a fashion as possible. Great ideas may come when they are least expected, and they may indeed flee; but persons of conunon sense can rediscover the \basic\ of taking notes before their thoughts escape them. Sincerely Cheryl LaGuardia Assistant Professor, Head of Interlibrary Loan Schaffer Library

- -· ~. :'1. I \ ' v ) J '• CONCOJlDlENSI$, February20, 1986 Page 11 \Thanks'' To Infirmary To the Editor: I want to ex:press my ''thanks\ for the fine medical attention and compassion I have found at the Union College infirmary. l have bad three experiences at the infirmary and each time I've been greeted with an unpleasant . un• compassionate nurse. Two times (and with. different · nurses) the nurse remained seated at her desk wh.ile I ex- plained my ailment. During both visits, each nurse did not make an attempt to move to at least check out my symptoms. I'm not quite sure how accurate a djagnosis such as this can be. I have even explicitly reqaested to be checked out buteaeh nurse refused and told me to wait a few days; they each said that if I got worse to come back. Thank God that I didn't have a fatal disease in which I would die in ''a few days''! My other experience at the infirmary was by far the worst. I was running a high fever and felt close to death. As I entered the infirmary (on a Sunday morning), the nurse on duty was having a conversation with a security officer. They chatted for about ten minutes while I stood in the waiting room. Then the nurse had the gall to ask \Is there something wrong with you?\ I replied, ·\Of course there is something wrong with me; why else would I be here?\ The nurse gave me some forms to fill out and continued to chat with· the security officer. About 15 minutes later the security officer finally said te the aurse, \I think you'd better take a look at hqr.\ The nurse then proceeded to aske me what was wrong and I told her I had a fever, swollen glands, and a terrible cough.. She took my temperature, felt my .glands and asked me to cough. In her infinite wisdom she said, \You're right. Here take some Sudafed, the directions are (In · the packet.\ Then she rushed , me Q~t of the infirmary. She · probably had a pretty im- portant magazine to read, All I could think as I was leaving was, \Sudafedthe wonder drug. It cures everything from a cold to the flu to pink .eye. Good thing I didn't come to the infirmary with cancer!\ I want to thank Union College for providing such an efficient, compassionate infirmary to care for the student body. Next time I get sick, instead of walking through the snow to the infirmary I'm going to ask my roommate to be indifferent to me and give me Sudafed. Cindy Bednarik 1988 Rally U nnece~sary -----~----------------------------------------------- To the Editor, The prospect of a student rally was being considered by the Student ForU:in. We felt that we needed a show of unity in the spirit of cooperation to make our concerns known. However, before the rally was in its final stages, several members of the Forum were able to meet with Dean Mammola and President Morris. The discussion revolved around the problems we are currently faced with: -the lack of adequate athletic facilities -the need of an additional van -hazardous, ·icy sidewalks -course reduction, class sizes -\club 21~' and the need for a place for all to congregate The consensus of those at- tending the meeting was that something will finally be done. We want the students to un-: derstand that we will. work along with the administration, and \keep on top of things\ while leaving the rally as an option for future use, shollld it be necessary. Cancelling the rally at thi~ time is most con- sistent with our original goal, and we don't want to jeopardize the accomplishments of our re_cent meeting with the Dean and the President. It is only fair to work with them and allow time for our recommendations to be acted upon. It was difficult to anticipate all of the problems that have arisen from the changes on campus, and the necessary adjustments cannot be made in one night. Please have faith in your represen- tatives--we are confident that you will soon see results. Chris Siler BethBernell Steve Moss Kathy Keaveney Andy George Julie Mountain Robin Gross Maureen Coleman Stanley Ferrence Tod Dimmick Steve. Lipsky Mickey Bradley Kyle Siegel Rich Allert Aaron Carrel Lisa Galati ChuckMcGavem Josh Waldman Ice Is Dangerous To the Editor: . This letter is in response to your recent editorial ''Great Maintenance Job.\ To Yvonne Huxhold I must say that if you were· impressed by the con· dition of this campus, then you must either have just come back from Antarctica or you must have gotten lost on your way back to school because you certainly could not be talking about Union College. If I'had ice skates I would skate to class. Have you tried walking, or should I say sliding, to West? Have you tried walking to Davidson? Have you tried getting down the steps to the mailroom? Have you tried getting. your car out of a parking lot? If you can answer yes to any of these questions then you must be in another dimension. And as for the p()or maifl.. tenance crews who work while we sleep, they get ten dollars an hour for ieaning on their shovels. Have you noticed the ice overhanging some of the roofs? One of these days someone is going to get killed by falling ice and the school is going to have a mighty big lawsuit on its hands. Wouldn't it be easier to send someone over to knock it down. And isn't it interesting that the .. only buildings that are plowed thoroughly ar\e the ad- ministration buildings. I guess it's okay for tuition paying students to break their necks but not for administrators. I'm sorry, Yvonne, but I just dori't see how you ~an be so snow blind. Respectfully, RichardS. Lev '137 LETTERS Military Spending Too High To the Editors, I enjoyed reading Paul S c h ·o p ' s ' ' P r i o r it i e s Questioned\ commentary in the last issue because it gave me a reason to reply. I've always been wary of voicing an opinion without much background knowledge but I have 14 books sitting on my desk and two grueling terms of thesis work on , the economics of military .. spending that says you're · wrong, Paul. Without going into a '70-page thesis on your mistakes I'll focus on the central one (I'll spare you the footnotes). First of all you do make some correct points in your com- mentary. Experimental work (R&D) is an expensive process but an essential one to build effective weapons or safe military vehicles. Unfor- tunately the defense industry's method of carrying out R&D is ridiculously wasteful. Such wastes have led to new cost cutting methods that have ironically encouraged defense contractors to bid low and overrun without restraint. I also agree that cost-cutting measures can be related to · technical sacrifices that lead to unsafe systems. The weighing of budget dollars vs. the overall success of a project ·is a stan- dard lobbying argument for high defense budgets that I agree is necessary for an ef- fective military. This is where our opinions part. Military spending has in the past spawned new technology and new products and in- dustries like commercial computers, but it does the reverse of permanently ending poverty. Who buys these computers? Who gets the jobs they create, in their develop- ment or commercial use? Military spending on weapons R&D projects is an inefficient way to make technological advances. Any advances are in a military context and require extensive, expensive, and rarely undertaken modification to be ;saleable commercially. Military investment costs the consumer in two ways. The budget comes from his-her taxes, which reduces his-her savings and consumption which lowers the amount of loanable assets in our economy. This trend of our government crowding out private in- vestment over the last two decades is best shown in the manufacturing industries. Low economy-wide loanable assets mean high interest rates; and high interest rates mean that capital machine maintenance and updating has been priced out of reach of U.S. manufac- turing industries. Evidence abounds as we are losing shares . of competitive markets every day in steel, microchips, shoes, and Hormel corned beef hash simply because other countries' manufacturing businessmen can more easily invest in cost reducing machinery. (Korea, Japan, etc.). Paul, ask yourself who is losing the jobs on our dying assembly lines. (Hint: it's not the people who can afford to own or learn to operate com- puters). In every year of his presidency Reagan has been able to increase the military budget as a percentage of GNP, obviously with the Gramm- Rudman bill and the 1987 budget proposal he hasn't changed his stance. A prediction for the future might be that we'll build more weapons (maybe in space), new technology will arise, and the poorer, less educated Americans will lose more jobs. Paul, don't ever think a military increase is a social reform. Scott Webster Don't Restrict Night Oub . To the Editors, I fully understand the problems that a \senior night club\ can create. I have at- tended many of th~ this year~ already. I think it is wonderful that this campus can get together and organize a party for the senior class every Monday night. I realize that it is expensive especially when only · a few of the -fraternities and sororities are still willing to sponsor it. I obj.ect to the notion that senior drunk club is for seniors only Last week there was a letter in the personals section that emphasized this statement. La~St night two of my · friends were refused alcohol, . not nn the basis of their age nor on the basis that they did not contribute to the drunk club fund, two valid reasons for refusing to serve them, but because they are not members of the senior class. In my opinion, drunk club is a party for seniors to go and enjoy their last year at Union. Many seniors have friends in the lower classes. Many of my friends are lower classmen. Does this mean I am not allowed to bring them with me? I do not agree with_ this notion of a closed senior drunk club. Fraternity parties can be closed if the fraternity deems it necessary. Any house that agrees to sponsor senior drunk club does not have the right to refuse people alcohol based on their class status. If any house has a complaint that they can't afford to serve people then ask for a quarter at the front door. I have seen the contribution bottles sitting empty at.all of the senior clubs I was at. Twenty five cents is not unreasonable and would probably help pay for a half keg and some cups.Even fifty cents could be handled by most of the people in this school. Refusing lower classmen alcohol will only cause problems and ruin the atom- sphere of senior drunk club. Next year, we will all be en- tering the real world. If we cannot get along with our friends ..... Daniel Friedman Problem Shared By All To the Editor: As a concerned member of the Jewish Student Union, I would like to address certain incorrect statements made in the recent letter \Traveling on Easter.\ The letter gave the impression that the school deliberately does not interfere with Jewish Holidays, but does interfere with Christian ones. This claim is completely un- true. A couple of years ago orientation was held during Rosh Hashanna (the Jewish New Year). This year classes were held, as always, on Yom To the Editors: We'd like to comment on one of last week's letters to the Editors. The letter stipulated some students' discontent with the idea of returning to school on Easter Sunday. We agree with them 100 percent. The students state· that Union is a non-sectarian school and that problems like this should be avoided. This is true but the students raised some incorrect points to compare with. They claimed that although the school year conflicts with the Kippur, and on the eve of Yom Kippur the Concert Committee sponsored a UB40 concert. Classes are regularly scheduled on Passover. I hardly call this ·special treatment. The point bJ!ing made is that Union College does not disciminate against anybody when making the academic calendar. The letter also asks that the school not interfere with Christian holidays, but at the same time maintains that it does not have to observe such holidays. This is paradoxical and silly. If the school were not to interfere with Easter or Yom Kippur, then it should cancel Jewish holidays of Yom-Kuppur and Passover, the school does not interfere with these holidays. This is incorrect. In fact, along with these holidays, . the school interferes with other Jewish holidays such as Rosh Hashanah, Sukkoth and Shavuoth. These five h<11idays are all periods of rest and reverence and together they equal 21 days. The school has interfered with these holidays by holding classes as usual and giving tests. These are all holidays which we would like to spend with our families. In order to do this we must miss classes or change the schedule. But this would be the same as observance, and thus the paradox is apparent. So I emphathize with my peers who observe Easter, that they must return to school on this important day, and yet I do not think that they have any reason to feel discriminated against. Union College plans its schedule two years in advance regardless of any religious factors and it seems there is not much we, the students, can do about it. Sincerely, RichardS. Lev '87 many classes. We do not wish to ridicule the supporters of the last letter. We just wish to show them that this is a common dilemma shared by all, Respectfully submitted, Andrew E.Kaplan'88 Robert I Goldman '89 Art Greenwald '87 Jeremy Lorge '86 Paul Reiss '86 Robin .racobson '89 Risa Sotsky '89 Joshua Lee Waldman '89 Michael Grauer '89 Laurence H. Schacter '88

!!' .. CONCORDJENSIS, February 20, 1986 Page 11 ''Thanks'' To Infirmary To the Editor: I want to express my \thanks\ for the fine medical attention and compassion I have found at the Union College infirmary. I have had three experiences at the infirmary and each time I've been greeted with an unpleasant un- compassionate nurse. Two times (and with different nurses) the nurse remained seated at her desk while I ex- plained my ailment. During both visits, each nurse did not make an attempt to move to at least check out my symptoms. I'm not quite sure how accurate a diagnosis such as this can be. I have even explicitly requested to be checked out but each nurse refused and told me to wait a few days; they each said that if I got worse to come back. Thank God that I didn't have a fatal disease in which I would die in \a few days\! My other experience at the infirmary was by far the worst. I was running a high fever and felt close to death. As I entered the infirmary (on a Sunday morning), the nurse on duty was having a conversation with a security officer. They chatted for about ten minutes while I stood in the waiting room. Then the nurse had the gall to ask' 'Is there something wrong with you?\ I replied, \Of course there is something wrong with me; why else would I be here?\ The nurse gave me some forms to fill out and continued to chat with the security officer. About 15 minutes later the security officer finally said to the nurse, \I think you'd better take a look at her.'' The nurse then proceeded to aske me what was wrong and I told her I had a fever, swollen glands, and a terrible cough. She took my temperature, felt my glands and asked me to cough. In her infinite wisdom she said, \You're right. Here take some Sudafed, the directions are on the packet.\ Then she rushed me out of the infirmary. She probably had a pretty im- portant magazine to read. All I could think as I was leaving was, \Sudafedthe wonder drug. It cures everything from a cold to the flu to pink eye. Good thing I didn't come to the infirmary with cancer!\ I want to thank Union College for providing such an efficient, compassionate infirmary to care for the student body. Next time I get sick, instead of walking through the snow to the infirmary I'm going to ask my roommate to be indifferent to me and give me Sudafed. Cindy Bednarik 1988 Rally Unnecessary To the Editor, The pros_pect of a student rally was being considered by the Student Forum. We felt that we needed a show of unity in the spirit of cooperation to make our concerns known. However, before the rally was in its final stages, several members of the Forum were able to meet with Dean Mammola and President Morris. The discussion revolved around the problems we are currently faced with: -the lack of adequate athletic facilities -the need of an additional van -hazardous, icy sidewalks -course reduction, class sizes -\club 2V' and the need for a place for all to congregate The consensus of those at- tending the meeting was that something will finally be done. We want the students to 1111;, derstand that we will work along with the administration, and \keep on top of things\ while leaving the rally as an option for future use, should it be necessary. Cancelling the rally at this time is most con- sistent with our original goal, and we don't want to jeopardize the accomplishments of our recent meeting with the Dean and the President. It is only fair to work with them and allow time for our recommendations to be acted upon. It was difficult to anticipate all of the problems that have arisen from the changes on campus, and the necessary adjustments cannot be made in one night. Please have faith in your represen- tatives-we are confident that you will soon see results. Chris Siler Beth Bernell Steve Moss Kathy Keaveney Andy George Julie Mountain Robin Gross Maureen Coleman Stanley Ferrence TodDimmick Steve Lipsky Mickey Bradley Kyle Siegel Rich Allen Aaron Carrel Lisa Galati Chuck McGavern Josh Waldman Ice Is Dangerous To the Editor: This letter is in response to your recent editorial \Great Maintenance Job.\ To Yvonne Huxhold I must say that if y<Ju were impressed by the con- dition of this campus, then YQU must either have just come back from Antarctica or YQU must have gotten lost on your way back to school because Y<>U certainly could not be talking about Union College. If I had ice skates I would skate to class. Have you tried walking, or should I say sliding, to West? Have you tried walking to Davidson? Have you tried getting down the steps to the mailroom? Have you tried getting your car out of a parldng lot? If you can answer yes to any of these questions then y<Ju must be in another dimension. And as for the poor main- tenance crews who work while we sleep, they get ten dollars an hour for leaning on their shovels. Have you noticed the ice overhanging some of the roofs? One of these days someone is going to get killed by falling ice and the school is going to have a mighty big lawsuit on its hands. Wouldn't it be easier to send someone over to knock it down. And isn't it interesting that the only buildings that are plowed thoroughly are the ad- ministration buildings. I guess it's okay for tuition paying students to break their necks but not for administrators. I'm sorry, Yvonne, but I just don't see how you can be so snow blind. Respectfully, RichardS. Lev 'B7 LETTERS Military Spending Too High To the Editors, I enjoyed reading Paul Schop's \Priorities Questioned\ commentary in the last issue because it gave me a reason to reply. I've always been wary of voicing an opinion without much background knowledge but I have 14 books sitting on my desk and two grueling terms of thesis work on the economics of military spending that says you're wrong, Paul. Without going into a 70-page thesis on your mistakes I'll focus on the central one (I'll spare you the footnotes). First of all you do make some correct points in your com- mentary. Experimental work (R&D) is an expensive process but an essential one to build effective weapons or safe military vehicles. Unfor- tunately the defense industry's method of carrying out R&D is ridiculously wasteful. Such wastes have led to new cost cutting methods that have ironically encouraged defense contractors to bid low and overrun without restraint. I also agree that cost-cutting measures can be related to technical sacrifices that lead to unsafe systems. The weighing of budget dollars vs. the overall success of a project is a stan- dard lobbying argument for high defense budgets that I agree is necessary for an ef- fective military. This is where our opinions part. Military spending has in the past spawned new technology and new products and ina dustries like commercial computers, but it does the reverse of permanently ending poverty. Who buys these computers? Who gets the jobs they create, in their develop- ment or commercial use? Military spending on weapons R&D projects is an inefficient way to make technological advances. Any advances are in a military context and require extensive, expensive, and rarely undertaken modification to be :saleable commercially. Military investment costs the consumer in two ways. The budget comes from his-her taxes, which reduces his-her savings and consumption which lowers the amount of loanable assets in our economy. This trend of our government crowding out private in- vestment over the last two decades is best shown in the manufacturing industries. Low economy-wide loanable assets mean high interest rates; and high interest rates mean that capital machine maintenance and updating has been priced out of reach of U.S. manufac- turing industries. Evidence ab~mnds as we are losing shares of competitive markets every day in steel, microchips, shoes, and Hormel corned beef hash simply because other countries' manufacturing businessmen can more easily invest in cost reducing machinery (Korea, Japan, etc.). Paul, ask yourself who is losing the jobs on our dying assembly lines. (Hint: it's not the people who can afford to own or learn to operate com- puters). In every year of his presidency Reagan has been able to increase the military budget as a percentage of GNP, obviously with the Gramm- Rudman bill and the 1987 budget proposal he hasn't changed his stance. A prediction for the future might be that we'll build more weapons (maybe in space), new technology will arise, and the poorer, less educated Americans will lose more jobs. Paul, don't ever think a military increase is a social reform. Scott Webster Don't Restrict Night Oub To the Editors, I fully understand the problems that a \senior night club\ can create. I have at- tended many of them this year already. I think it is wonderful that this campus can get together and organize a party for the senior class every Monday night. I realize that it is expensive especially when only a few of the fraternities and sororities are still willing to sponsor it. I obj,ect to the notion that senior drunk club is for seniors only Last week there was a letter in the personals section that emphasized this statement. Last night two of my friends were refused alcohol, not on the basis of their age nor on the basis that they did not contribute to the drunk club fund, two valid reasons for refusing to serve them, but because they are not members of the senior class. In my opinion, drunk club is a party for seniors to go and enjoy their last year at Union. Many seniors have friends in the lower classes. Many of my friends are lower classmen. Does this mean I am not allowed to bring them with me? I do not agree with this notion of a closed senior drunk club. Fraternity parties can be closed if the fraternity deems it necessary. Any house that agl·ees to sponsor senior drunk club does not have the right to refuse people alcohol based on their class status. If any house has a complaint that they can't. afford to serve people then ask for a quarter at the front door. I have seen the contribution bottles sitting empty at all of the senior clubs I was at. Twenty five cents is not unreasonable and would probably help pay for a half keg and some cups.Even fifty cents could be handled by most of the people in this school. Refusing lower classmen alcohol will only cause problems and ruin the atom- sphere of senior drunk club. Next year, we will all be en- tering the real world. If we cannot get along with our friends ..... Daniel Friedman Problem Shared By All To the Editor: As a concerned member of the Jewish Student Union, I would like to address certain incorrect statements made in the recent letter \Traveling on Easter.\ The letter gave the impression that the school deliberately does not interfere with Jewish Holidays, but does interfere with Christian ones. This claim is completely un- true. A couple of years ago orientation was held during Rosh Hashanna (the Jewish New Year). This year classes were held, as always, on Yom To the Editors: We'd like to comment on one of last week's letters to the Editors. The letter stipulated some students' discontent with the idea of returning to school on Easter Sunday. We agree with them 100 percent. The students state that Union is a non-sectarian school and that problems like this should be avoided. This is true but the students raised some incorrect points to compare with. They claimed that although the school year conflicts with the Kippur, and on the eve of Yom Kippur the Concert Committee sponsored a UB40 concert. Classes are regularly scheduled on Passover. I hardly call this special treatment. The point being made is that Union College does not disciminate against anybody when making the academic calendar. The letter also asks that the school not interfere with Christian holidays, but at the same time maintains that it does not have to observe such holidays. This is paradoxical and silly. If the school were not to interfere with Easter or Yom Kippur, then it should cancel Jewish holidays of Yom-Kuppur and Passover, the school does not interfere with these holidays. This is incorrect. In fact, along with these holidays, the school interferes with other Jewish holidays such as Rosh Hashanah, Sukkoth and Shavuoth. These five holidays are all periods of rest and reverence and together they equal 21 days. The school has interfered with these holidays by holding classes as usual and giving tests. These are all holidays which we would like to spend with our families. In order to do this we must miss classes or change the schedule. But this would be the same as observance, and thus the paradox is apparent. So I emphathize with my peers who observe Easter, that they must return to school on this important day, and yet I do not think that they have any reason to feel discriminated against. Union College plans its schedule two years in advance regardless of any religious factors and it seems there is not much we, the students, can do about it. Sincerely, RichardS. Lev '87 many classes. We do not wish to ridicule the supporters of the last letter. We just wish to show them that this is a common dilemma shared by all. Respectfully submitted, Andrew E. Kaplan '88 Robert I Goldman '89 Art Greenwald '87 Jeremy Lorge '86 Paul Reiss '86 Robin Jacobson '89 Risa Sotsky '89 Joshua Lee Waldman '89 Michael Grauer '89 Laurence H. Schacter '88

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 LETTERS COMMENTARIES DoN ot Judge South Africa . . .. Guest Commentary To the Editor: pressed. with his argument; nut with the specifics but with the point that keeping South Africa from communism is a noble goal. I am a conservative and I agree. But in the last paragraph I choked on a phrase that made me both nauseous and -em- barrassed to agree with Mr. Kelly. Brian, I'm glad you had the opportunity to visit the African continent but please don't go back \to judge them.\ If you wrote this phrase frivolously and regret it please have the decency to apologize. If indeed you ethnocentrically believe that in you rests the power to judge South Africa, then please do everyone a favor and avoid a career in in· ternational relations. Freshmen Demand Rep~tblic Be ~ead , example, Socrates argues that In 1984-5 I had the opportunity to spend my junior year studying in London. School vacations gave me many chances to visit those countries of Europe which have always intrigued me. I made a con· scions effort to meet as many Europeans as possible to gain some perspective in un- derstanding the lives they lead. Travelling in Europe I also learned the sad phenomenon of the 'loud Americans\ whose purpose in· travelling is to glorify themselves in how much better they live in the U.S.A. thus solidifying their in- tolerance of systems different than the American one. Reading Brian Kelly's \Aparthied Views Defended\ article last week I was im- Scott Webster Words But No Actions To the Editor: With all of the negative opinions expressed lately in Concordiensis, which were aimed at everything from ''Gel- Time\ to the social life at Union, we expected to see mass hysteria at the \Convene with the Deans\ forum last Thurs- day. Instead, what we saw was fifty quietly interested in- dividuals. Where were you letter writers? ! You who so bravely voiced your opinions in Concordienseis. We must ask ourselves if you are as con- victed to those opinions as you have portrayed yourselves to be. We cannot justify support of your views if you refuse to support them yourselves. Frankly, we are disgusted. Christopher R. O'Donnell Kurt A. Elmgren .Winterfest Succeeds To the Editor: Many thanks to the Social Committee, Concert Committee and everyone else who helped in making Winteriest a success-a tough job well done. Let's hear of other social activities you would like. Stop in SAO and help decide on different events. Lorraine T. Marra Effective February 20, J 986 Hale House d-ining room w·ill be closed at 3:00P.M. until further notice BY ADRIAN FRAZIER The editors of Concordiensis asked me to write something about college life-about, we agreed, whether Plato's Repub1ic should, or even can, be taught in Freshmen Precep- torial. Every year five hundred freshmen are assigned this work; two hundred and forty class meetings are held in thirty sections; hundreds of pages are written, and rewritten, on whether freedom causes happiness or unhappiness, on the family, the equality of women, the power of art, and the nature of truth. And every year, it seems, many freshmen fail to gain entry to the text; some read the notes of Cliff instead of the dialogue by Plato; and also a few have their roommate write, or themselves take, a paper (on Justice!) from some fraternity file. In addition, as the years pass and f:..\eshmen become our sophomores, juniors, and seniors, it appears that most utterly forget The Republic. For example, when teaching Sidney's \Apology for Poetry\ last fall, I asked a class of forty what writer had attacked poets in the first place, that they needed a defense. No response. Wasn't there a charge made against them in The Republic? No response. Socrates said that they should be kicked out of the city; what for? No response. So much for the labor of thirty professors and hundreds 'of students, amHor the idea that the FP reading-list is a common. reference point throughtout Union education. This phenomenon raises many interesting questions: Do students learn anything at all from Plato? Why don't they learn more? Do they read the book? Should it be taught at all to Freshmen? I posed some of these questions to my current class, in an anonymous questionnaire, and got some suggestive results. To the questions, \How much of The Republic did you read?\ and \How much did others read?\ they replied they read (on average) 85 percent of the assigned pages, but that other students they knew read only 35 percent. Well, perhaps this group of students is a hard~ working bunch, or a crowd of ''throats,'' but there is another SPRING TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES The procedure for spring preregistration will be the same as those use_d for .the ~inter ten:'. Each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. Preregistration will occur 1n Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Preregistration materials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of c~urses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday, Feb. 21. Students should rev1ew the course listing, consult with their advisors, and select the courses they wish. It wou.l~ then be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their f1rst three choices becomes unavailable. some courses are available only with the permission ofithe departm:nt. These are referr~d !o as \list\ courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. L1sts for these courses Will be posted by the relevant departments on Wed., Feb. 26. Students stiould sign the list to indicate an interest. students should then return to the department on Fri., Feb. 28 to find out wheth:r or not they have been admitted Those students admitted to a list course must secure a reservat1on card from the department. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWEDTO PREREGISTER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT SUCH A CARD. THESE ARE THE ?NLY ~OUR~ES THAT. R.EQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for an ind~pendent study will requ1re wntten perm1ss1on of the supervising faculty member. . · . • · . . The date and time for each student's preregistratiOn appomtment will be pnnted on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students wi!l not be allowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistrationwillconcludeon Fnday~ Ma.rch 7, and no late preregistration will be permitted. Additional course changes may be made dunng the Drop- Add period at the start of the spring term. . . . , . . students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time pnnted on the1r Prereg1strat1on Cou~se Request Form\ (this form must be brought to preregistration). Once inside !hey sh~uld venfy that the courses they desi.re still are available. If so, they should ensure that the1r form 1S properly filled out and then see a staff member who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistration fo~m and then see a staff member. I tis hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten m1nutes at the most. d t· · t stu.dents who do not pian to return to Union for the spring term, except gra ua mg sen1~rs, mus give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. March gradu~tes should Inform the Off1ce of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the wmter term. intriguing possibility: that t~ey the nuclear family is a great tol~ the trut_h on the 1quest10n- source .of injustice, because, for natre, but he to o~e another. instance, parents. want the best ·That is, many Un\on students for their children-;best might be ashame<,t; to let others education, bestjob, best spouse, know they read t}Jis book, much etc--whether or not their less liked, becflus_~:vat Union it children are intelligent, isn't cool to take such things capable, or valuable h1 such seriously. I know that this ex- roles to the society. This might planation will seem far-fetched, lead a student to reflect that but who that has taught FP he/she had no \right\ to study hasn't had a few students each at Union, become a doctor, and term say, in the privacy of the make a million; indeed, that to office, find once the book is do so would be unjust and bad done, that they actually liked for the USA. What Socrates The Republic, more or less in says about democracy, wealth, t;he same tone of voice a student sex, and other matters can be will use . .to .. conf.ess. s-he .just similarly upsetting. The result might be gay. is that many students read To the questions \Is The . Plato, as they read Marx, Republic too difficult for Union defensively and fearfully, eager freshmen to understand?'' and to misunderstand. Instead of \Is it too difficult for you?\ being learned, the works are there was again a somewhat repressed, forgotten like a predicta,ble split in the dangerous dream, so that a responses. About four fifths of year later no one remembers the students said The Republic having read them. · was hard, but not too hard for So, I asked my students, if the them; one fifth said it was book is too hard for some, too impossible for them to get wicked for others, and through, especially without Cliff somewhat wearisome for all, Notes. That majority who said should the faculty decide not to that they were smart enough to teach it? You may be surprised read The Republic added that it to learn that in general, the might well be more than their students said: Of course it classmates could manage. (At should be taught. For what the same time that it's not cool reason? to think, it's also not cool to be A few (paradoxically in- dumb.) eluding the same students who What would make the book so reported that they did not read hard? After all, it is just men the boolt) said that others discussing a problem, giving should have to do what they had the meaning of ideas in simple to do; a few that they learned words with lots of examples. something about Justice; some The students indicated a that the book made possible number of causes, one of ,them interesting discussions\ 'Of big unconsciously giving away topics,like Individualism, what I take to be a main cause, Freedom, and Censorship; two by saying it was a poor. \novel.\ students even said that Plato Yes, although there is a bit of taught them in a way how to ~x in Book Six, and. som~ think. Perhaps it is a mistake to discussion of fighting earlier on, take any of the responses of this it is a damn poor novel, because questionnaire seriously, but if it is, of course, not a novel at all. one does, one might be forced to Marx and Freud are pretty conclude that Union students, awful novelists as well, and the or this sample of them, though same student may judge them they might not all be perfectly sternly for that reason. It may equipped to learn, and might be that not all our freshmen fear certain kinds of truth, still have passed through that stage very much want to become of \cognitive development\ educated and \trust the faculty that would enable them to to drag them screaming out of understand aQ8tract reasoning, the cave and into the light. much less those refinements of Indeed, more than one logic required ~Y . a book that student wanted to k~ow why ~~e exposes contradicttons between faculty should care whether the one essential principle, such as students liked the booK, since if Justice, and another, such as we only taught what they liked, Freedom. Such students can they wouldn't learn anything at only learn from stories, and all. I suppose that the reason I anything they are asked to learn do care, and many preceptors they treat as if it were a story. care, is that we are Socratic The second reason my enough to believe that though students gave for the difficulty education may begin with force of the book is that it is hard to it is only carried through by discover the real point of the love-:-a passion for argument because the dialogue \monuments of unaging in- gets in the way, making things tellect.\ Since everyone is long and confusing. Such defining the nature of a college students often prefer the simple this year, I will conclude by · exposition of the graduate adding my own: a college is a student who wrote the Cliff bordello for the satisfaction of . Notes to Plato's dialectical the Platonic passions. arguments and grand fables. Indeed, these students sometimes added on the questionnaire that they had never before encountered this form of getting at the truth. That seems to me possible, but still astonishing, since the Socratic method is the supposed basis of teaching in the Western World. (So much for notions of cultural continuity from the Greeks!) I have a third explanation for the difficulty our students have with The Republic: That students can't under• stand the book because they can't live ~with the book~s truths. The Republic contradicts in an extremely powerful way many of our basic but usually unexamined beliefs. For Adrian Frazier is J!isiting Assistant Professor of English. Think Spring: May9, 10and 11 Parents' Weeke11d May 17 Sigma Cl1i Clambake May23 Fitzhugh Ludlow May31 Camp Union .....

CONCORDIENSIS, February 20,,1986 Page 13 Not Another S. Africa Response By JAN BARAN Many letters to the editor and. commentaries have appeared in these pages of Concordiensis addressing the issue of South .t\frica and its system of apartheid. These submissions while examining the plight of .blacks in South Africa have spent more time quibbling over facts than ana~yzing the .real issues for Americans in South Africa, . the future of South African leadership and our role in determining that leadership. Since September 1984 when South Africa inaugurated its new constitution, South Africa has been torn by racially motivated , violence. This violence was a direct response from blacks that they were not satisfied with the reforms, constitutional or otherwise, offered by Prime Minister P. W. Botha, including a tricameral parliament. The South African government has responded to this violence by imposing a state of emergency and cracking down on black resistance. Speeches made by Botha in August and just recently on January 31, 1986 have offered little hope to South African blacks. While· modest reforms have been implemented such as an offer of citizenship last September and a decision to end the influx control measures, the key features of the apartheid system (the homelands, unequal wages, passbooks, etc.) are still intact. The nebulous words that Botha has used- in these two previous speeches allow him to promise lots, but to deliver little. The major black resistance movement, the African National Congress, frustrated by Botha's refusal to negotiate, announced in December that \soft\ targets, or civilians, would be hit. In just December alone, two white shopping centers were bombed, rocks were thrown, and a truck ex- ploded from a landmine. All in an, twenty whites were killed, and dozens more were injured. The level of violence will only increase unless real changes can be made. The South African government for its part needs to take its January 31 assertion that apartheid is \outdated\ one step further: it needs to introduce real reforms. The whites can only retain power in the new government if they start to make accommodations now. Changes will not come quickly, however, because Botha must appease the more · conservative members of his Nationalist Party who oppose any acquiescence to black . demands. The United States, on its part, can be influential in South Africa if it modifies its policy of constructive engagement. This policy is based on the assump- tion that examples of good behavior by the United States will produce progressive changes by the white govern- ment. The assumption that whites will change has proved false, however. Before modifying con- structive engagement, the United States first needs to admit that constructive engagement has failed and that white-led change is not an op- tion. Next, the United States must seek a bi-partisan con- sensus on a South Africa policy. Then, the Reagan ad• ministration must work for open dialogues between the South African- government and 'blacks and seek direct negotiations with black leaders. After these steps are taken, the United States should change its p,olicy. Any policy ad- justnfent must be made realizing that Reagan will not radically cha\nge his policy of constructive engagement. Although 'divestment, or the removal of 'American business presence fro~ South Africa, has been co'nsidered·· an option, it must be determined first if we really want to lrave influence in the new South Africa. Although divestment would signify our. moral disapproval and. perhapS even be economically feasible, it would not put the United States in a negotiating position with the new government. · The pollcy 'of ideological engagement has also been suggested as an option for. the United States. This policy favors cerltlin punitive actions, but none that would really hurt -South Africa. -Ideological engagement would be· inef- fective, counterproductive, and even dangerous. Moral suasion is unlikely to have any effect on an economically secure white regime that is bent on ·self- preservation. More9ver, by specifically endorsing certain black leaders in this period of crisis, this policy would undermine their credibility in South Africa and tie United States interests to their fate. Also, this policy supports· anti-communist in- surgencies while opposing all movements that do not embrace the American notions of democracy and capitalism. By following this policy, the United States could damage its position with South Africa's neighbors and force many African states to align pre-emtively witl} the Soviet bloc. Until a viable policy can be determined, the United States must examine South Africa's words very carefully.. The United States two weeks ago welcomed Botha's policy too quickly. Botha's cabinet members made it clear that Botha's influx: control laws would only be replaced by other means to prevent blacks from leaving. Botha responded to these words by condemning his cabinet, saying \no minister has the right to compromise his party in this way.\ This response by Botha angered many South Afric!lns. Two moderates,. black Zulu chief Butheluzi and progressive federal party leader Slabbert, were quick to make it clear that they were not with the South African govern- ment. Slabbertresigned his post in parliament, unusual for a mari at the prime of his political career, and Butheluzi made it clear that his people would not take part in the government's plans. The meaning of these angry responses is clear. The changes envisoned by Prime Minister Botha are only cosmetic and do not fundamentally change the system of apartheid. A Monday editorial in the New York Times called these _changes \linguistic meaning that only the words to describe the reforms have changed. Segregation would not be removed under Botha 's new reforms announced on January 31, nor would white political power. At the same time, the anger in these two responses means that events are changing in South Africa, the \earth is mo,ving.\ Some whites now see ri~g9tiations with blacks as critical in retaining some form of political power for the whites under the new .government. Thus, the future of South Africa is very clear, of which Americans should take note. Fundamental change is coming soon to South Africa, maybe not tomorrow or the next day, but soon. In order for the United States government or the South African whites to be influential in determining the nature of that government, they both must begin to seek real, public negotiations with South African blacks. Before doing so, however, they must recognize what they want in South Africa and formulate strong, clear policies. So far, the whites and the United States have blundered. The whites are on their part have been slow in recognizing subtle changes· that have been occurring in South Africa. The United States on its part has also failed. Its failure to admit that its policy of con- structive engagement has not led to white-led reform in South Africa has prevented the Reagan administration from making real efforts to change its policy. The executive order announced on September 9, 1985, that delineated economic sanctions against South Africa is merely an ad hoc adjustment. This order is a recognition that something is wrong with con- structive engagement, but yet it makes no major attempts to solve the real issue, the future change .of leadership in South Africa. This issue has been painfully ignored in the commentaries and letters that have graced these pages of Concordiensis. It. is an issue which needs to be addressed by Reagan in order to help end the racial turmoil and violence that have become common in South Africa. Just two 9ays ago, fourteen more people were killed over the weekend in South Africa, one of the bloodiest weekends since the September 1984 constitutional inauguration which started the violence. How many more weekends of racial violence will have to take place before there is a recognition by either the United States or the South African whites that the leadership will change? Should the United States promote change and how? .These are the questions that need to be an- swered. Leave the quibbling over facts for your homework assignments. PLEASE NOTE: The exam schedule that was printed is primarily for regular, \day\ under~ra~uate ~ourses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continwng Studies courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts ih examinations should be reported to M1·s. Adey in the Office of the Registrar no laterthan 'March 7,1986. Monday, Marcll17-9:00.11:00 A.M. ESC 33..01,-FlUid Systems Analysis-Jewell-8U 300 Moliday,Matcll17-2:00-4:00P.M. ESC 26.02-Thenno & Heat Transfer-Ranganatha-BH 201 Tuesday, March 1~9:00..11: 00 A.M. ELL 33-Energy I-Aubrey-N Q14 & N 012 Tuesday, March 18--2:01)..4 :00 P.M. . . ESC 26-01-Thermo & Heat Transfer-8hanebrook ..... N 222 Wednesday, March 19-9:00-11:00 A.M. PHY 13-03-Intro to Physics li-Titus-N 012 COMMENTARIES JU illl!lllll!lllll!lll!l!lllllll II 11111111 II II 1111 111111111111 II 1111111111 1111! IIIII illlll!lilllll!lllllll !Ill illl!lllll!lllllillllllll!li IIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIIJ!t ~ Satu,rday, February 22 ! ~ Saturday, March 1 i ~ Saturday, March 8 ! ~ ~ ~ ;;~ ~:·;;;a;:;;S I 5 Departure Times: 5 ~ Cceonlotneire i - Union College Mohawk - ;; (Old Chapel) \Y\ Mall ~ :: c Boston Store) C Sears Garden (To Be ~ :: Center) Announced) ~ :: l2noon 12:20 12:40 1:00 ~ ~ 1:30 1:50 2:10 2:30 = ~ 3:00 3:30 3:40 4:00 = ~ 4:30 4:50 5:10 5:30 ~ ! 6:00 6:20 6:40 7:00 ~ il!'i· 7:30 7:50 8: lO 8:30 :: = 9:00 9:20 9:40 10:00 - ! :~::~::A~=~ b~ 2 :::.:~sed 1 ~: 2 :h::;cket :~::·:· ; ~ Old Chapel. The price is $1.00'round trip. ~ 5illllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllltlllllllll!lllllllllll!lll!lllllllllllllllllllll1lllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllilift Late Night Bites _AII-CamJ?US Jam Session Every Sunday & Thursday 9:30-12:30 Hot .Apple Pie .Hot Apple Pie Ala Mode Carrot Cake Chee!ie Cake Chocolate Creme Pie German Chocolate Cake Walnut Creme Cake Brownie Ala Mode Ice Cream Sundaes .75 1.15 1.25 1.50 1.75 1.30 1.15 1.75 1.00 1.25 Reeses Pieces Coffee .45 Tea .45 Hot Cocoa • 55 ltealth Bar Crunch Chocolate Milk .45 Soda .45 Herb Tea .55 New Games In The Skellar: Scrabble, Trivial Pursuit, M*A*S*H Trivia, Boggle, Sex Trivia, Candyland, Checkers, Monopoly and Wheel. of Fortune Come in and play! All you need is your J.D. to sign o!Jt the games! · ·······~······································ Delta Chi Presents A r Charity Cabaret To Benefit The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation Tuesday, Feb 25 Two Shows 9 P.M. 11 P.M. Featuring the Music At Our Brothers Donation $2.00 Free Food Come Have a Great Time And SupJ?Orl A G_reat l:;harity •••.•.•.••• '·'···~~-· • ··~-· .. , t ., ·~·.··-· -·· ........ 't ,I ••••.••••••••• ,-

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, February 20, 1986 THE ARTS ARomanticValentinekDay? ~~~ illlwRuc - By CARAT ABACK and JIM DE STEFANO On Friday, February 14 in the Union College Field House the Concert Committee and Social Committee presented a dance featuring, appropriately enough for Valentine's Day, the Romantics. not many students were at the dance early enough to enjoy the sounds of PalefaceL However Union students turned out in full force for the feature act-the Romantics. Looking as though they had just stepped of of MTV, from one of their videos, the band played for one hour and then ust left the L-R Coz Canler, Dave Petra1os, Wally Palmar and Mike Skill of the Romanti.cs. The opening band for the Romantics was a foursome named Paleface. The group played about eight of their own songs in a thirty minute period for an excellent perfonnance. Paleface has the same style and sound as R.E.M., (remember \Radio Free Europe\ and \So. Central Park\). Twtes such as Paleface's \Wild West,'' \Child's Play'' and \Iggy's Pop;' had a powerful bass line and drum beat, but most noticeable and impressive were the intricate guitar chords and . flowing vocals which gave Paleface a memorable sound. The only disappointing thing about the opening act was that stage. Disgruntled fans grabbed their coats in disbelief that the Romantics refused to come back out for an encore. For the rem~inder of the show, though, they gave a solid performance; they performed songs from their new album as well as such old favorites as \One in a Million,\ \Talking in your Sleep'' and \That's What I Like About You/' a song most everyone joined in on for the refrain. Their new material sounds quite a bit like their old material. The audience rocked back and forth but did not really dance to the tunes of the Romantics. The atmosphere the difference is .•• ... y·our kind of place .• . tile difference is exciting gifts • ~ .the difference is distinctive cards and stationery •• • the difference is your kind of clothes at a discount •• • tlzedijferenceis minutes from campus the difference is corner of Liberty and South Ferry Streets Schenectady. Visa- Mastercard 382-7600 Hours Mon.-Fti 10:00-5:30 Sat. I 0:00-5:00 Due to a late cancellation, Cabaret for this week has been can.celled. But stay tuned for next week-we'l'l be back with the biggest show of the term!! was more like that of an in- formal mini concert than that of a dance. A man sat on the side selling t-shirts, the Pizza Pub supplied pizza and soda ana students crowded the front of the stage, with some daring few planted on the best seats in the house-atop the sturdy shoulders of some strong in· dividuals. Basically, the time Union College spent waiting for and with the Romantics was a good , time to socialize; the student population was well represented. The band rolled iu on _a custom-designed bus with the charter reading 'Nobody You Know' on the front top of the . bus. The Romantics jam- med rather informally and provided students . with some good rock music, a feStive way to begin a Friday night. GET PSYCHED! 29Daystil Spring Break SCHENECTADY •a.7 fm STERI.O ~ •THE FIRST STATION IN rHI: NATU)N• It's THE WRUC TOP 8.97!--the only countdown with two decimal digits of precision. These were the most frequently played albwns this past week on WRUG. Are there any bands listed here that you don't know about? If there a:re, call up your favorite WBUC D.J. and ask him or her to play a choice selection fro:rn one of the following albums. Position Artist Album 1 Label Last Week 1 Big Audio DyBamittr-This Is . . . Columbia--R 2 Replacements-T~--.. : Slash-2 3 Simple Minds-Once Upon A Tiine A&M-3 4 Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars Big Time-5 5 Violent Femmes~ The Blind Leading the Naked Slash 1 6 Blow Monkeys--Forbidden Fruit RCA~9.97 7 Bangles~Different Light CBS-7 8 Pandoras-,.,Stop Pretending Rhino - 8.97 Echo.& the Bunnymen \Dancing Horses\ Sire.,-6 Program Notes The Student Forum ·Debate ''Does Pornography belong at Union\ will be broadcast on Thursday Feb. 26th ... Don't forget about WRUC Trivia this Sunday night ... It's better than sex (in certain cases). Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director The Gospel EnSemble By JOAN GOTLffi Union College has a new treat to share in the fonn of its Gospel Ensemble which was started this Fall. They performed this Saturday afternoon at two o'clock in the Memorial Chapel with BLAS (Black, Latin Alliance for Students). The ensemble was founded by Charles Moore. Last spring, he went around campus and discovered interest among some students to form a group. He wrote up a constitution this past summer, and rehearsals began this Fall.Ch(!rles Moore is the president and the director of the twelve member en· semble. Moore gained his singing experience from singing in the church choir and in high school. He said that most of the other students in the group have similar singing backgrounds but it is not a requirement for joining the ensemble. It takes anyone who wants to sing. The Gospel Ensemble sings mostly religious songs. Some melodies are traditional but modified to meet the needs of the choir. The ensemble also sings some contemporary music. The focus of the ensemble is Graphic· representation of Median Class Size Continued from Editorial, p. 10 Source: Sfutlent Forum Report C.O.- Coprses Offered to show people what they enjoy doing. Charles Moore com- mented, \One can express a lot in Gospel music. We try to-show different aspects of Gospel and at the same time, we show our faith 'through the music.\ · The concert this Saturday really expressed the students' emotions and faith through their magnificent voices. other groups from Syracuse, Albany, and Schenectady participated in the concert with separate but just as uplifting, melodies. The Union College Gospel Ensemble opened up the per- formance with Charles Moore directing. James Marshal began the first song, \Lord is My Ught,\ with a well done solo. The next melody was a modified version of the traditional song \I Need Thee\ followed by \The Grateful.\ Carmela Creech performed the solo. Her beautiful, clear voice sang from the heart, very uplifting and moving. Patrick Williamson sang a solo part for the next song, \I Open My Mouth to the Lord.\ His rich, melodious voice was very expressive and har- monious with the rest of the group. Other songs sung were \There's A War Gong On\ with another solo by Carmela Creech and \Don't Wait for the Battle is Over'' with an inspiring and expressive solo done by Kim- berly Carot. In th!=! middle of the. concert, three soloists performed. James Marshal, · Patrick Williamson, and Charles Moore each shared with us- their beautiful, powerful voices, and their personal faith through their unique singing styles. Overall, the · Gospel concert was impressive and uplifting. The Union students' har- monious singing came straight from their hearts and souls. Words were savoured and expressed with feeling. The elevating rhythm and the beautiful tunes got everyone handclapping and foot- stomping. The Gospel Ensemble will be performing at several churches this term. This spring they plan to bring in an jnterpretative dance group to Gospel music from Washington. They also plan to sing during Parents' Weekend. Hopefully, they will sing at Union again very soon. Their music is a wonderful experience of sharing their faitb and of inspiring us aU to believe in the goodness of God and life. POLITICAL SCIENCE PSYCHOLOGY Winter '85-'86 Fall '85-'86 Spring '84-'iS Winter '84·'85 Mean Median c.o. Mean Median C.O. 2\ .11 .14 j~ 2( 2' -M.>I..- -,.y./#1 27 .1:1 BIOLOGY Mean Median c.o . . ' *' s~ , - flo 28 /f) ,25' IS 15 22 ,20 \ \ .1$' 12 8 2S .2S 10 h II II Z3 22 ECONOMICS Mean ' Median c.o. .1D 11 II .13 .J.P. 1.1 2'1 31 ,/~ 21 .11 15 14. IS /() IS HISTORY Mean · Median c.o_ _;g .18 II -- Jo 10 II ,1,5 10 a ,- .2!1 31 II

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 THE ARTS ARomanticValentineSDay? By CARA TABACKa11d JIM DE STEFANO On Friday, February 14 in the Union College Field House the Concert Committee and Social Committee presented a dance featuring, appropriately enough for Valentine's Day, the Romantics. not many students were at the dance early enough to enjoy the sounds of Paleface. However Union students turned out in full force for tfue feature act-the Romantics. Looking as though they had just stepped of Gf MTV, from one of their videos, the band played for one hour and then left the was mGre like that of an in- formal mini concert than that of a dance. A man sat on the side selling t-shirts, the Pizza Pub supplied pizza and soda and students crowded the frent of the stage, with some daring few planted on the best seats in the house-atop the sturdy shoulders of some strong in\ dividuais. Basically, the time Union College spent waiting for and with the Romantics was a good time to socialize; the student population was well represented. The band rolled in on a custom-designed bus Witli:t the charter reading 'Nobody You Know' on the front top of the bus. The Romantics jam- med rather informally and provided students with some good rock music, a festive way to begin a Friday night. GET PSYCHED! 29 Days til Spring Break tllll WRUC- SCHENEC'TADY ISJ.7 fm STEIIEC • •nu£ FIIIST IT.ATION IN THIE NATION'\ It's THE WRUC TOP 8.97 !-the only countdown with two decimal digits of precision. These were the most frequently played albums this past week. on WRUC. Are there any bands listed here that you don't know about? If there are, call up your favorite WRUC D.J. and ask him or her to play a choice selection from one of the following albums. Position Artist Album Label Last Week 1 Big Audio Dynamite- This Is. . . Colwnbia-R 2 Replacements- Tim oO Slash-2 3 Simple Minds-once Upon A Time A&M-3 4 Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars Big Time-5 5 Violent Femmes- The Blind Leading the Naked Slash 1 6 Blow Monkeys-Forbidden Fruit RCA-9.97 7 Bangles-Different Light CBS-7 8 Pandoras-St()p Pretending Rhino - 8.97 Echo & the Bunnymen \Dancing Horses\ Sire-6 Program Notes The Student Forum Debate ''Does Pornography belong at Union\ will be broadcast on Thursday Feb. 26th ... Don't forget about WRUC Trivia this Sunday night ... It's better than sex (in certain cases). Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director L·R Coz Canler, Dave Petratos, Wally Palmar and Mike Skill of the Romantics. The Gospel Ensemble The opening band for the Romantics was a foursome named Paleface. The group played about eight of their own songs in a thirty minute period for an excellent performance. Paleface has the same style and sound as R.E.M., (remember \Radio Free Europe\ and \So. Central Park\). Tunes such as Paleface's \Wild West,\ \Child's Play\ and \Iggy's Pop\ had a powerful bass line and drum beat, but most noticeable and impressive were the intricate guitar chords and flowing vocals which gave Paleface a memorable sound. The only disappointing thing about the opening act was that stage. Disgruntled fans grabbed their coats in disbelief that the Romantics refused to come back out for an encore. For the remainder of the sh()W, though, they gave a solid performance; they performed songs from their new albwn as well as such old favorites as \One in a Million,\ \Talking in your Sleep\ and \That's What I Like About You,\ a song most everyone joined in on for the refrain. Their new material sounds quite a bit like their old material. The audience rocked back and forth but did not really dance to the tunes of the Romantics. The atmosphere . the difference is ... ..• your kind of place •• • the difference is exciting gifts •• • the difference is distinctive cards and stationery .• . the dijforence is your kind of clothes at a discount •.. the difference is minutes from campus the difference is corner of Liberty and South Ferry Streets Schenectady. Visa- Mastercard 382-7600 Hours Mon.-Fri. 10:00-5:30 Sat. 10:00-5:00 Due to a late cancellation, Cabaret for this week has been cancelled. But stay tuned for next week-we~n be back with the biggest show of the term!! By JOAN GOTLm Union College has a new treat to share in the form of its Gospel Ensemble which was started this Fall. They performed this Saturday afternoon at two o'clock in the Memorial Chapel with BLAS (Black, Latin Alliance for Students). The ensemble was founded by Charles Moore. Last spring, he went around campus and discovered interest among some students to form a group. He wrote up a constitution this past summer, and rehearsals began this Fall.Charles Moore is the president and the director of the twelve member en- semble. Moore gained his singing experience from singing in the church choir and in high school. He said that most of the other students in the group have similar singing backgrounds but it is not a requirement for joining the ensemble. It takes anyone who wants to sing. The Gospel Ensemble sings mostly religious songs. Some melodies are traditional but modified to meet the needs of the choir. The ensemble also sings some contemporary music. The focus of the ensemble is Graphic· representation of Median Class Size Continued from Editorial, p. 10 Source: Slullent Forum Report c.o.- Coyrses Offered to show people what they enjoy doing. Charles Mo()re com- mented, \One can express a lot in Gospel music. We try to show different aspects of Gospel and at the same time, we show our faith through the music.\ The concert this Saturday really expressed the students' emotions and faith through their magnificent voices. other groups from Syracuse, Albany, and Schenectady participated in the concert with separate but just as uplifting, melodies. The Union College Gospel Ensemble opened np the per- formance with Charles Moore directing. James Marshal began the first song, \Lord is My Light,\ with a well done solo. The next melody was a modified version of the traditional song \I Need Thee\ followed by \The Grateful.\ Carmela Creech performed the solo. Her beautiful, clear voice sang from the heart, very uplifting and moving. Patrick Williamson sang a solo part for the next song, \I Open My Mouth to the Lord.\ His rich, melodious voice was very expressive and har- monious with the rest of the group. Other songs sung were \There's A War Gong On\ with another solo by Carmela Creech and \Don't Wait for the Battle is Over\ with an inspiring and expressive solo done by Kim- berly Carot. In the middle of the concert, three soloists performed. James Marshal, Patrick Williamson, and Charles Moore each shared with us their beautiful, powerful voices, and their personal faith through their unique singing styles. Overall, the Gospel concert was impressive and uplifting. The Union students' har- monious singing came straight from their hearts and souls. Words were savoured and expressed with feeling. The elevating rhythm and the beautiful tunes got everyone handclapping and foot- stomping. The Gospel Ensemble will be performing at several churches this term. This spring they plan to bring in an interpretative dance group to Gospel music from Washington. They also plan to sing during Parents' Weekend. Hopefully, they will sing at Union again very soon. Their music is a wonderful experience of sharing their faith and of inspiring us all to believe in the goodness of God and life. POLITICALSCIENCE PSYCHOLOGY Winter '85-'86 Fall '85-'86 s;pring '84-'85 Winter '84·'85 .&;// 'IS·'a ~M.4- 'I'f.!IS Mean Median c.o. Mean Median C.O. 2'1 J/ 'f ,Ji' :u 14- j4 J'-4- 8 .2S zs 15 - 21 21 kJ II 1.1 10 27 .1.3 II ZJ 21 IS BIOLOGY ECONOMICS HISTORY Mean Median c o. Mean · Median c.o. Mean Median C.O • . H· .S:J 9 . ,7() 11 II _?g .7.9 II ··-.- jO 28 /0 :13 J-9- )] .]() so II .z; 15 15 29 31 JJ .1S .10 lZ 21. 20 ,, 29 Jf 15\ 2'1' .11 II

CONCORDIENSJS, February 20, 1986 Page 15 J aHe Lecture On Tuesday, February 25, 1986, the Arts Department win be pleased to present a Jaffe Lecture by Professor Samuel Edgerton of Williams College. Professor Edgerton will speak on \'Linear Perspective and the Unique Development of Western Science after the Italian Renaissance.'' The lecture will be given at 4:30 p,m. in Arts 215. Professor Edgerton received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in 1965. He has taught\at Wheaton College and Boston University and has been on the ' faculty at Williams College s'lnce 1980. He is the author of The Renaissance Rediscovery of Linear Per- spective ( 1975~, and Pictures and · Punishment; Art and Criminal .Prosecution. during the Florentine· Renaissance (1985), as well as nUmerous articles on Renaissance and American art. The Arts Department. is delighted to welcome him to Union College. Glee Club to Perform at U1;1ion In this season's major choral offering .at Union, a per- formance of George Frederick · Handel's four \Coronation Anthems\ will be given at 4 p;m. Sunday, Feb. 23 in the Union College Memorial Chapel. The concert is free. Performing will be the combined choirs of Union College, Worcester Polytechnic Institute of Worcester, MA, and Wells College of Aurora, NY. The 120-member glee cll:lb as well as a 21-member professional orchestra will be directed by Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson, chairman. of the Union Arts Department. Union, an indpendent, coeducational college with 2,000 undergraduates, offers programs in the liberal arts and engineering. Founded in Schenectady, NY, in 1795, Union was the first college chartered by the Regents of the State of New York and is among the oldest nondenominational colleges in the country. Fusako Yoshida THE ARTS Ronnie Nyogetsu Seldin ~ 0. IJ) Q Ill - .... <( IJ) .c 1- 0 >- 1/) Q) +- .... ::> 0 u Ill .c a. ro .... lj) 0 0 '.C c. Music of Japan The meditative, haunting sounds of the Japanese flute known as the shakuhachi will be heard in the Performing Arts Studio of the Arts :Suilding this Friday. Ronnie Nyogetsu Seldin, who has studied shakuhachi in Kyoto, will perform the music of Japan with koto player, Fusako Yoshida. The concert will take place at 7:30 and last until about 9:15. Chairs will be available, although floor seating is en- couraged. Czech String Quartet to ~erfonn Bach The Prazal String Quartet from Czechoslovakia will perform at 8 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 26 in the Union College Memorial Chapel as part of the 1985-86 Schenectady Museum- Union College Concert Series. The Prazak consists of Vaclav Remes, Valstaimil Holek (violins), Josef Kluson (viola) and Josef Prazak (cello). The four joined forces as students in 1972 while attending the Prague Music Conservatory, and by 1974 had already won first prize in the Chamber Music Com- petition at the Conservatory. By 1978 the Quartet had not only won the Grand Prix in the International String Quartet Competition at the Music Festival in Evian, but it also received the Radio Fran.ce special prize for the best recording during the com- petition. More honors followed, and by now the group has played in Salzburg, Munich, Paris, Rome, Berlin, London and Amsterdam, and has recorde'd on the Supraphon, Panton and Orfeo labels. After one performance, the Irish Independ~nt said, \A mellifluous blend and a mutual understanding marked the playing... The basic quality of the group is its unified ex- pressiveness, with a confident sense of Understanding and particularly the effect it puts forth of total service to the music.\ In Hamburg, Die Welt said, \They understand one another's hearts... musically Freshman Writers The van Orden Prize is for YOU Prizes For Poets Deadline MARCH 31 The Truth About Fiction {PRIZES, that is) Essay .The Essay (We PRIZE your wordsr ''Panhellenic Cabaret Contest'' February 27th from 8:00 P.M.-10:00 P.M. Auditions will be held on: Feb. 12th from 4 p.m.~7:30 p.m. Guest Spots for Professors 'Prizes Get Your Registration forms in now! they have a finely balanced mixture of Czech sound with its devotion to music and the German conscientiousness and knowledge of the German classics. Each of the players is a master of his own in- strument.\ -: '. For their Feb. ~6 area debut, the Prazak Quartet will per- form Mozart's Quartet No. 21 in D, K. 575 (the \Prussian\), Janacek's Quartet No. 1 (the \Kreutzer\) ; and Smetena 's No. ·1 (\From My Life\). Tickets, $6, are available at the Schenectady Museum, and at all Community Box Offices and the Palace Theater. They will also be available at the door. For information, phone (518) 382-7890 during business hours, or 372-3651 evenings or weekends. The Union College Arts College since 1969. She is Department will present pianist touring this season with the Monica Jakuc playing J. S. \Goldberg\ Variations, which Bach's \Goldberg\ Variations she will play in June as her New on Monday, February 24, 1986 at York solo debut recital in 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Merkin Concert Hall. She has One of the masterpieces of the appeared in many solo and keyboard literature, tbe chamber music recitals in New \Goldberg\ Variations consist York, Boston, and throughout of an aria with thirty variations New England, as well as in a which range from the series of concerts in Alaska. passionate and sad to the Last fall she was a guest per- playful and joyous in character. former on Robert J. Lurtsema's Originally written for the two- \Morning Pro Musica\ show manual harpsichord and vir- with British cellist Alexander tuosic in its demands on the Baillie. In 1980, with her Smith performer, the piece forms an College colleague Kenneth evening of listening in which the Fearn, she gave an Alice Tully Aria journeys through many Hall New York ensemble debut changes of character to return recital: \A Program of transforriled at the end. Twentieth-Century Music for Monica J akuc (pronounced Two Pianos.\ Ya kutch) is an Associate Admission is free and open to Professor of Music at Smith the public. ~~~~.__..._~------------~ Satutday,February22nd \Nothing so needs reforming as other people's habits.\ -Mark Twain 10 A.M.-4 P.M. Only Every Joan & David Shoe With a Yellow Dot -Just-$19'.00 Be early and save big at: J & D Designer Shoes Loehmann's Plaza Rt. 20 Guilderland Phone 456-6784 Visa and Mastercard accepted

CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 Page 15 Jaffe Lecture On Tuesday, February 25, 1986, the Arts Department wi:Jl be pleased to present a Jaffe Lecture by Professor Samuel Edgerton of Williams College. Professor Edgerton will speak on ''Linear Perspective and the Ullique Development of Western Science after the Italian Renaissance.\ The lecture will be given at 4:30 p.m. in Arts 215. Professor Edgerton received his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in 1965. He has taught at Wheaton College and Boston University and has been on the faculty at Wtlliams College since 1980. He is the author of The Renaissance Rediscovery of Linear Per~ spective (1975 ), and Pictures and Punishment; Art and Criminal Prosecution during the Florentine Renaissance (1985), as well as numerous articles on Renaissance and American art. The Arts Department is delighted to welcome him to Union College. Glee Club to Perform at Union In this season's major choral offering at Union, a per- formance of George Frederick Handel's four \Coronation Anthems\ will be given at 4 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 23 in the Union College Memorial Chapel. The concert is free. Performing will be the combined choirs of Union College, Worcester Polytechnic Institute of Worcester, MA, and Wells College of Aurora, NY. The 120-member glee club as well as a 21-member professional orchestra will be directed by Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson, chairman of the Union Arts Department. Union, an indpendent, coeducational college with 2,000 undergraduates, offers programs in the liberal arts and engineering. Founded in Schenectady, NY, in 1795, Union was the first college chartered by the Regents of the State of New York and is among the oldest nondenominational colleges in the country. Fusako Yoshida THE ARTS Ronnie Nyogetsu Seldin .... Q. (!) 0 - 0 >- </) (!) +- !... ::l 0 u Vl .r:::. Q. ro I... Ol 0 +- 0 . .r:::. c. Music of Japan The meditative, haunting sounds of the Japanese flute known as the shakuhachi will be heard in the Performing Arts Studio of the Arts Building this Friday. Ronnie Nyogetsu Seldin, who has studied shakuhachi in Kyoto, will perform the music of Japan with koto player, Fusako Yoshida. The concert will take placeat7:30 and last until about 9:15. Chairs will be available, although floor seating is en- couraged. Czech String Quartet to Perform Bach The Prazal String Quartet from Czechoslovakia will perform at 8 p.m. Wednesday, Feb. 26 in the Union College Memorial Chapel as part of the 1985-86 Schenectady Museum- Union College Concert Series. 'fhe Prazak consists of Vaclav Remes, Valstaimil Holek (violins), Josef Kluson (viola) and Josef Prazak (cello). The four joined forces as students in 1972 while attending the Prague Music Conservatory, and by 197 4 had already won first prize in the Chamber Music Com- petition at the Conservatory. By 1978 the Quartet had not only won the Grand Prix in the International String Quartet Competition at the Music Festival in Evian, but it also received the Radio France special prize for the best recording during the com- petition. More honors followed, and by now the group has played in Salzburg, Munich, Paris, Rome, Berlin, London and Amsterdam, and has recorded on the Supraphon, Panton and Orfeo labels. After one performance, the Irish Independent said, ''A mellifluous blend and a mutual understanding marked the playing ... The basic quality of the group is its unified ex- pressiveness, with a confident sense of understanding and particularly the effect it puts forth of total service to the music.\ In Hamburg, Die Welt said, \They understand one another's hearts... musically Freshman Writers The Van Orden Prize is for YOU Prizes For Poets Deadline MARCH 31 The Truth About Fiction (PRIZES, that is) Essay The Essay {We PRIZE your words) ''Panhellenic Cabaret Contest'' February 27th from 8:00 P.M.-10:00 P.M. Auditions wi II be held on: Feb. 12th from 4 p.m.-7:30p.m. Guest Spots for Professors Prizes Get Your Registration forms in now! they have a finely balanced mixture of Czech sound with its devotion to music and the German conscientiousness and knowledge of the German classics. Each of the players is a master of his own in- strument.\ For their Feb. 26 area debut, the Prazak Quartet will per- form Mozart's Quartet No. 21 in D, K. 575 (the \Prussian\), Janacek's Quartet No. 1 (the \Kreutzer\), and Smetena's No. 1 (\From My Life\). Tickets, $6, are available at the Schenectady Museum, and at all Community Box Offices and the Palace Theater. They will also be available at the door. For information, phone (518) 382-7890 during business hours, or 372-3651 evenings or weekends. The Union College Arts Department will present pianist Monica Jakuc playing J. S. Bach's \Goldberg\ Variations on Monday, February24, 1986 at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. One of the masterpieces of the keyboard literature, the \Goldberg\ Variations consist of an aria with thirty variations which range from the passionate and sad to the playful and joyous in character. Originally written for the two- manual harpsichord and vir- tuosic in its demands on the performer, the piece forms an evening of listening in which the Aria journeys through many changes of character to return transfmmed at the end. Monica Jakuc (pronounced Ya kutch) is an Associate Professor of Music at Smith College since 1969. She is touring this season with the \Goldberg\ Variations, which she will play in June as her New York solo debut recital in Merkin Concert Hall. She has appeared in many solo and chamber music recitals in New York, Boston, and throughout New England, as well as in a series of concerts in Alaska. Last fall she was a guest per- former on Robert J. Lurtsema's \Morning Pro Musica\ show with British cellist Alexander Baillie. In 1980, with her Smith College colleague Kenneth Fearn, she gave an Alice Tully Hall New York ensemble debut recital: \A Program of Twentieth-Century Music for Two Pianos.\ Admission is free and open to the public. This Week in the Arts February 20-0ff-Campus GoodiJye Freddy., Market Theatre, Albany, 8 p.m. Feb.28 'thruFeb. 28 February 22-0ff Campus-Tradmg Places-Bchacht Fine Arts Center. Russell Sage College, 8 p.m. February 23-0n Campus--Glee Club Concert performing works of Handel, . Memorial Chapel, 4 p.m. February 24-0n Campus-\JS Bach's Goldbergs Variation'' recital by Monica Jakuc (.piano), Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. ·· On Campus-Film-Fassbinder (German w/English subtitles '~r only want . · . your loveH, SSOl&; 3:30. February 2~0n Campus-Jaffe Ledure: \Linear Perspectives and Unique . _ Development of Western Science after Italian Renaissance Off Campus-Big Band Hit Parad~, Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m. February 26-0n Campus-:MusewnJCollege Concert Prazak String Quartet, Mem9rial Chapel, 8 p.m. . . · ... --- - - :.::·.:;_:~·.:~·.: Saturday,February22nd :::::::::: J ''7\.J h.- -' :::::::::: 10A.M.-4P.M.Only ffl I 1110t 1ngs0 t mmr Every Joan & David Shoe rmJ needs I I\~\(~ With a Yellow Dot ·=·=·:·=·= 1 rejorn1ing ~ :::'::::; -;;~~~ta:;-!~.!;;~~ 1:::::::: ' as other t: ·~i~)i:i: J & D Designer Shoes tm: people's 1 1 lii:lll G~~~he~=~~,~~~~~· 4 :: 6 ~: 4 .!1:1·11 ~ _ h_a;:~!!• ~ain :I llo,;i:·u;i::::u:::: _____ v_is_a_a_n_d _M_a_st_e_rc_a_rd_a_c_c_ep_t_ed ______ :~;:;.~·;:=~:; _. _- _ ~ _- _- -

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, February 20, 1986 SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIP$ .. Toll-free service helps students find aid. College fresh- men can call a toll-free number for help in findil)g financial aid. The number, 1-800-AID-FIND, is part of a national scholarship matching service called Student Aid Finders, based in Laconia, New Hampshire. beginning in March and ending in November. Interns are needed to assist in the planning and fundraising of the March. The Environmental Planning Lobby is looking for interns to work as full time staff members for a semester. Internships are available in hazardous waste, energy, accounting and ad- ministl\ation media and public relations, land use and solid waste management. Application deadline for the fall semester is April1, 1986. This service has computer- The U.S. Department of State access to over 4 billion dollars in offers work study internships student aid. \Practically all during the academic year. The students can and do qualify for program is designed to en- student aid regardless of courage students to consider academic achievement or careers in the field of foreign financial need,\ said Paul affairs. The application Hemphill, president of Student deadli.lie for the fall semester is Aid Finders. ... March 1, 1986. Hemphill's service guarantees to find any student a minimum of 5 (and as many as 25) student aid sources based on information the student .provides on a data form. Then, the service searches through its computers and matches the information to the specific student aid for which the student qualifies. With 3 to 4 weeks, the student receives a computer read-out of· the matching sources - com- plete with names, addresses and eligibility requirements. \Plus adds Hemphill, \if we don't find a minimum of 5 sources, we refund the required fee of $39 and give the student whatever sources we do find absolutely fre·e.\ The Chicago Association of Direct Marketing will sponsor its ninth consecutive Collegiate Institute in Chicago, April13-18, 1986. A scholarship is offered to an outstanding senior who is articulate, thoughtfui, imaginative and business- oriented. Application deadline is February 25, 1986. The South Street Seaport Museum offers summer in- ternships and employment opportunities. Positions are available in Education and Visitor's Services. Students interested in the Education department should have a background in American History, Architecture or Education. Students interested in Visitor's Services should be interested in sales and public communication. Application deadline is April 11, 1986. St. Louis University Graduate School offers graduate assistantships, research assistantships, traineeships, fellowships and tuition scholarships. PRO·Peace is a non-profit, non-partisan international citizens movement with the goal of global nuclear disarmament. PRO-Peace is planning The Great Peace March where marchers will walk from California to Washington, D.C., - - --- - - -- \\'! German Language Table - I INC. Magazine is looking for · editorial interns to work for course· credit during the 1986 fall semester. Interns will in- terview res po-ns i b 1 e repr~sentatives of companies that are candidates for in- clusion in the 1987 INC. 100. Chemical Bank is looking for sophomores to work as summer programmers. Applicants must have a strong background in DCL, BASIC on PC level or higher and a working knowledge of WAX. The National Organization for Women in Albany is looking for an Assistant to the Lobbyist. Applicants must be interested in political processes, learning about legislature and like talking to people. The assistant will work at the New York State Legislature. INC. Magazine needs full- time swnmer interns. Interns will be responsible for in- terviewing representatives of companies that are candidate for inclusion in the 1986 INC. 500. Interns will learn to work with spreadsheet and data base software programs. Syracuse University Masters Program. The Rehabilitaion Department of Syracuse University is pleased to announce a substantial hi- crease in student funding for the Masters program in Rehabilitation Counseling. In the last three years the program has received $50,000 per year from the Rehabilitation Services Administration for student traineeships. Starting Fall 1985 and for the next two academic \)\I .,, Campus Protestant Ministry Lenten Communion Services Thursday Afternoons 5:45.6:15 Weeks 6 thru 10 Milano Lounge years, the rehabilitation counseling program. will · recei~e $97,000 per year. · Students wiU receive ap- proximately $4,500 for the academic year and those who attend summer sessions will receive traineeships of about $1,200 each. . For further information, contact: Paul R. Salomone, Professor, 805 South Crouse Avenue, Syracue, New '\*·Y.ork 13210, Tel: (315) 42341:21. · · .. Financial aid appli~atio materials for 86-87 are now available in the Financial Aid . office, 2nd floor, Becker Hall. Don't delay--no reminders will be sent!! WRUC TR1VIA Typing:_.--!Fop . reasonable rates. Call ¥J.CJI11Cll!l 399-0165. SPRING BREAK 'Rtf•'P:~rtv Fort Lauderdale~ seven nights acc:oq'lrmo~dat:ion.s, all taxe.s poc>lside daily hapJflY Tropic and more!! STUDENT TRAVEL SER- VICES 1-80() 648-4875. SPRING BREAK '86-Relax in • Nassau Bahamas. Trips include . roundtrip jet, transfers, seven . . nights accommodations, par- . ties, ~ree cruise, all taxes and more!!! $369 pp. complete. · ununer Resident Advisors. General Description: Supervision of high school The Official WRUC Trivia juniors and seniors attending a scoreboard. special six-week academic Fraternity-sorority, Phi Sig- program and living in Rich- . 20, ZBT-12, DG-1 mond Hall. R.A. 's will orient Dorms, Fox--6, South--3, . students to the Union campus Richmond Maleroom-2, The . specifically and college life Ednas from Davids()n-1, The generally. Responsibilities Boys from Webster-1, Hickok- extend to weekends and special 1 . excursions by the group. I.n depend e n t , B 0 b- -1 7 , • Specific Responsibilities: Bonedoggers-9, Busch Buddies- To understand and follow all -3, Koo Stark Fan Club-3, rules and policies of the college Horkers-3, Bacchus-2, Amber. as well as policies of this R I N · program·, oya ty--2, orthel\ners--2 Floundering Shrimp Toast-1, To interpret the rules and 211--1, Brown--1, Naresh's regulations of the college to Parish-1, Two Lonely Guys students in a satisfactory Stuck in an elevator S()mewhere manner; in South Dakota-1, Freshman- To direct the attention of the 1 proper authority toward the Three Stumpres and Three misconduct of students or Protests · dangerous-emergency situa- This week's bonus question- tions; to answer pt 8:00 p.m. on To be alert to student feelings Sunday, Feb. 23, is: \What is, and concerns, and reflect these the shortest word in the English to the Program Residence language which contains the Director; first six letter,s of the To be an active participant in alphabet?\ weekly hall staff meetings; Time is getting short! Need money? Financial aid ap- plication materials for 1986-87 are now available in the Financial Aid Office, 2nd floor, Becker Hall. All applications must be completed and received by Aprll 15. Don't delay-no reminders will be sent! To assist in advising in- dividuals and groups; To coordinate one cof- feehouse-cabaret and assist other staff in planning and organizing other .activities; To provide encouragement to students in developing self- discipline, self-direction and self-awareness; To be aware of and stimulate participation in the various experiencies available to CLASS'JFL'EDS students on this campus and in · the area during the summer; ;::-===:::;:::======:::; To attend pre=service training Earn $30-$50 per day, working 1·2 days per week, assisting students applying for credit cards. Call 14100-932-0528. FOR SALE KORG DELTA Polyphonic synthesi2er-string ensemble. $280. Dres x6896. (6 hours) in June and arrive Sunday morning, June 29, to review procedures and welcome students. Qualifications Preferred: R.A. experience during regular academic year and-or suriuner camp experience, especially with high school age students. tptcdy . I '141 aoil18 ~t,i~ IH F{'Afo<C£/ Fi·rst aid certification {or willingness to take two hours of first aid instruction before beginning term of em- ployment). Qualifications Required: Good academic standing at Union College; ~t least junior standing; enthusiasm for Union; excellent interpersonal skills and strong demon- stratable concern for others. . Term of Employment: June 29•August 8. Salary: Room and board for swnmer session June 28-August 9; tuition waiver for one summer course; $500 stipend. Contact: Joan · M. Krejci, Associate Dean, Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells House, 370-6288. Anyone interested and · qualified should prepare a letter · of application with the names of three references on campus. Professional Typing-Busi- ness teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time, 399-4656. Part-time help wanted--to .operate NCR mainframe, monitor on-line, and answer phones on weekends. Some- computer experience helpful, but not required. Contact Charle~611. L2:±:.tt7ts The film committee presents: Feb. 21-23, Beverly Hills Cop at 7, 9, 11. . , .. _, , _ .. Feb. 25, Heavy Metal at 7, 9, 11. Tickets are available at Old Chapel for $1. · Gennan Film Series Rainer Werner Fassbinder's film I only want your love (1975) will be shown Monday, Feb. 24 at 3:30p.m. in SS016, in German with English subtitles. \During his entire life, Peter has attempted to gain the love of those closest to him. After his mar.riage and move to the city, he incurs difficulties and problems caused by furnishing an apartment and supporting a family, until he seemingly lil'eaches a 'point of no return.' He commits a murder, which later is described as being senseless, indeed he finally draws attention to the sen- selessness of his life by an in- sensitive act. Fassbinder again probes personal relationships and takes a scrutinizing look at society.'' '101d ya:

CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 Newman Club ActiVities Speaker on Sanc.tuary- Monday, February 24 at 7:30 p.m. in Hale Hause Lower l.Qunge, Ellen Flanders, Clerk of Albany Sanctuary Project will speak and . will be ac- companied by a person from El Salvador who will share first- ~and experiences through · an mter.preter. All welcome. Regular Newman Club meeting cancelled in lieu of· .this presentation co-sponsored by Catholic and Protestant Campus Ministry. Trip to Pr.o.ctor's-Friday, February 28, ''The New MUmmenschanz.\ Any Union student who is interested in going with a group meeting at Old Chapel Plaza at 7:15 p.m. so we can pick up % price tickets for $7, 6, or 4. Folk Group-All singers and· musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. 1n the Church to rehearse. Kindergarten Aides-Anyone interested in assisting one hour a week at St. ·John's School please contact Tina Sciochett, . 370-2275 who is coordinating this project. Tutors for Math & Reading- Anyone interested in assisting Computer Math Students at St. John's; T, Th, F, please contact Liz Karazim 37~511. There have also been several requests for one on one for both Math and Reading. Confirmation-sunday, April 27 at 3 p.m. at st. John the Evangelist Church. Any Union student who has not been confirmed and who wishes to receive the sacrament please contact Sr. Joan who will arrange classes to suit student schedules. PERSONALS Basis San, Oh Basis San Amy wake up-the teacher wants you. AML, Are you sure this admirer is so secret? How about a moVie sometime? Gobble, Gobble Mikey B., When God was passing out personalities, some people were still on the Dumper. l Catatonk Cashier To Ms. Moral Majority-! hope you don'Jrhit me in this week's personals. If you do, I'll CRUSH you next week! ! ! · Gail T. IreaUy have to hand it to you~even tllough DIY hands aren't blessed. Why worry? There's always . laughter after pain ... there'.s · always sunshine after -rain ... so · why. worry now? Hey buddy I'm here if you need me. ' SMN: Happy 21st! I hope you . have a great -birthday \\\Sorry I can't be here to· help celebrate. Rain check? Definitely. Have lots of fun and remember you're only a fourth of the way through a long, happy life. This is no time for a mid-mid-life crisis. So, smile and live it up! ..-Love ya, ~;EC To the Brothers The Newlyweds thank you for your congratulations last week. We woul~ like to arrange a celebration some evening. Please contact us by phone or mail so a time can be arrangeq. It's a shame that you dressed . so warmly! 3rd .Floor Hickok Thanks for a great week. · Let's ·do it again some time. KimRA Jason, you all drink a lot. GQtta' Love Team Bob!! Keep it up guys!! · DWQG-..... LoveyourRA Kimbo In the shew-world, we don't have .those problems ... < ··- -- - -· Are you sinking in the harbor? A TOAST: To M&M ... and a Jacuzzi!!! (and- to many more good times!!) Mike: Bi-wnm, I'm interested in your program. I'm into chains and supurlati:ves. Send Bio and photo to Box 1~55. DWOG, I just wanted to add a little excitement to my life. I thought the personals would help. -Loveya, SexyS. DWOO: I guess I carried the love-hate thing too far last week. Sorry ... -allmylove, your bad friend. DWOG: The guilt is chewing us to pieces. Our orthodontist said we shouldn't grind our perfect teeth, so ... We confess. -Muffie& Sheila ·John: In order to ensure an even number of Snow Caps in a box, you need a 26 stroke 72 slash 009 dash 4 form. One can be obtained at the campus branch of Central Services, which is located in Ca.rnegie. DeAngelo's Ristorante l5l0 Crysler Ave. 393-4512 PIZZA { 8, 12, 24 cut) HOT & COLD SUBS DINNERS (Steak, Lasagna) APPETIZERS [Wings, Salad) * $1 Off on Pizza *Free Delivery * Wehonor Major Credit Cards on deliveries too! Oh. No,! Look--it's three o'cloek and his shades are still down. DWOG: I feel very badly, so, bury my heart at wounded knee (arm). -Andrew DWOG: MmmMmm Good. :rhat's what Campbell's soup IS ... You can bank on it ... DWOG- Perpetual Motion does not exist. -Askme,Lou Melvin, isn't eight enough? DWOG-We confess, but we have the evidence. No :video games this time. Thanks for giving us a hand in Photo III. To the 2nd woman, watch out for snakes with worse than wicked knives! I Love, The First woman Chris, I was ha:ving fun sledding in the Poconos. Was surprised to see. you. You're very photogenic ... -J Get psyched for trefoils. How would you like to live in a society where eggplants eat people parmesan? Please send responses and insights to Box 1519. Girl ·Scout cookies on sale next week in W ~st. . ! 11- • ' ~~ The Sisters (ahd Pledge) say GET PSYCHED!!!!!!!!!!! Dave- You are the ultimate man who works at the Writing Center. -KP. &Friend, Sponsors and Patrons PI MU SIGMAS: Get psych, psyCHED, PSYCHEb!!!!! When you kiss me, . kiss me with your eyes open ... cause you'll never know what I'll do next!! Dr. Vin CONGRATULATIONS Chest! AJ Patty- Steve showed me a wild time on Valentine's Day. Thanks for mtroducing us. Dawn 'fop 10 List of Eggplant Par- mesan & Bowling Alleys: 1. Peter Pause 2. Casa Mia 3. Sky Top Lanes 4. Debbie's 5. The. bowling alley on Erie Blvd. 6. Brandywine Diner 7. Bowlmore Lanes 8. Bedrock Bowl 9. Gepetto's 10. Price Chopper CUP AND SAVE Oh purple eggplant in a patch How ·I'd love to make a batch ... Of Parmesan ... Gail, help! Love,Jiggs To ~he Geeks: I confess. It was me aU along. fooled ya ... snarf snarf. · -nwoo Dear Trace- Happy birthday! Now you're just as abnormal as the rest of us! Love always-Andrea Trace:. Happy birthday to my special friend. Be ready to celebrate when I get back! I miss you! Love always, Amy Janice and Lauri~ You're the best. I love you. Your r<JOmmate L & M's Renta Yenta mat- chmaking service. 75 percent success rate. All NJB '.s apply. We'll get you people your grandparents will love. Call x6806 P.K.-Any close encounters at 4:00 a.m. recently? Kathy, Carolyn, and Donna- who will push the car out today? Will Tania beat up LaS honda? Is Ann pregnant? Will Martha remove her wings? Can we kill Georgiana? Stay tuned for the next episode. of Psych. 62 hits the Schenectady Grils' Club. Love Mary. P.S. You look a little tired today .•. Amy Rhine-Imagine high- waters at 40K a year! She could at least get a pair made, if not a Sak's charge. 1 ove M r· . . . • , · a JOx:_le G.B.-Lunch and dinner? Won't you be a little full? Love, your concerned roommate ·Nancy-Use the single! (We'll miss you). J .McA.-U you ever want to see your contact case alive again leave $5,000 dollars and a plastic basin in 1he maid's closet bt;~fore midnight tonight. -The casenapper L, and S--- I can wait a week. How long can you last? The · boys in pink strike again ... yeah home-osl Bill~ You're so uptight you make me throw up. -Mop us TD. Stress?? What's that? P.S. Remember ... F' equals $3,000 heh, heh). Come to Pi Mu Sigma's 1st annual anti-social: .Stay at home, play your own mllSic, and drink your own beer. Open only to those 21 or older; must show I.D. at the door. \I'm not easy to live with. I know tbat is true, you're no picnic either baby, that's one of the things I loved about you\' ... still do! -sTORM CAT Mark C., You're 200 percent snuggable! ! · -The married woman RUNNING LOW ON CASH? NEED MONEY? Work at Hale House Many Shifts Available Call x6132, talk to Victoria, Richard or a:sk for our student manager. DWOG, I'm sick of the Poco nos. Let's go to Acupulco! MexySue Webbie, BEWARE!! Chi Omicron Chi .pledges: ·Get psyched! ! ! Love, the sisters of Chi Omicron Chi Uhh .. Bob, I'll try \Annoying Parasites\ for 350, please. __ To the boys on third floor Fox South: If you must use the women's room after midnight at least put the seat down: We're sick of doing your dirty work! --JP Beware! There's a PLEDGEMONGER on the loose! ... But she~s only seven and not too dangerous. Hey roomie, Did you know that there's a dead bolt on the door? ! I'll tear you apart-put you back toge~her-and tear you apart agam! Doesn't that sound .fun!?! \Mr. name is Talbot Duznt- play Basketball\ The other A UNION CREW ERG CHALLENGE '86 Corning soon F.Y.E.O., Here's a personal wish for a happy twenty-first! Kootchie- kootchie-goooooo. Azel I don't know what you've been told All I know is it's your birthday. Let's sit back, put on the shades and let it roll! A birthday wish by Lisa Sarah & Linda- Isn't this week great? -Dave Lesley and Diane, Thank you for a wonderful valentine's birthday. It would not have been so great without you 2. Dan Kinsey, Does this mean you are more perfect than Yul Brenner? B-D Diane M, Mmmm, you're a little small, but ..... you'll do: a little birdy Diane S. Did you get the rose? Did anyone claim it? Don't believe them. I am in your philosophy class --Secret Admirer Lesley Where the heck is rarian- degua? KIM-- I'm sorry about what I said. I didn't have much time to an- swer his question. Let's be friendS -ssP Diane S, If I asked,. would you go out to dinner with me? Secret Admirer ...

'• Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 . . C!J,nncnrbiensis SPORTS Team Effort Boosts Lady Swimmers W. Track Finishes Strong · By MARTHADEMANY a second in the 200 free. Laura Eileen Sweeney placed third in By LISA FREED \ In their closest meet yet, the women's swim team put up a good fight against the College of St. Rose. Although the team lost, the meet came down to the final relay event. Everyone had very good times 1 expecially the opening relay team of Betsy Boutwell, Laura Uhl, Deb Dostie, and Lisa Freed. Their time in the 200 free relay not only qualified them for the State Championship meet this. week, but also set a new Union College record in that event. · Betsy swam to first place in the 500 meter freestyle while Deb captured second place in that same event. Betsy also took a first in the 1000 meter freestyle, as well as the 200 I.M. Other swimmers also had firsts for Union, including Matty Phipps, in the 100 meter but- terfly. Donna Gardiner also added points in that event, with her second place as well as a second in the diving corn- petition. J en Whalen had a strong meet, with a second in the 50 meter freestyle wbile Lauri Adelstein also swam the 50, as well as the 100 free, with fourths in both events. Laura Uhl swam to a second place in the 100 meter backstroke while Lisa Freed took first in that event, as well as the .200 backstroke. Lisa's time in the 100 lowered her own pool record (set in 1983) at St. Rose, while her 200 back time lowered the current record. The team next travelled to Vassar College, for another strong meet. Betsy swam to her best time in the 500 freestyle, for a first place finish, as well as also swam the 50p,. for a second The Fifth Annual Union place, to add to her first in the College .. Women's Invitational 1000 free. Deb swam well, with Indoor Track & Field Meet was thirds in the 200 br~aststroke, held Wednesday, February 12. and butterfly events, as well as The Women's Track Team a second in the 200 I.M. Marty culminated their season by added points for her third in the scoring 93 points and placing a 100 fly, 100 free and tbe 100 strong second to Williams breaststroke, proving her quite College's 118 point first-place a versatile swimmer. J en had a finish. Albany State garnered third in the 50 free; and she and third place with 60 points. La uri each swam the 50 and 100 In the field e'Vents, Stephanie .free events. Donna dove very Woodard took first place in the well, placing third there, as well shot put with a throw of 11.01 as svyirnming the breaststroke meters, setting a new school for the team. Finally, Lisa won record. Laurie Anderson placed both the 'backstroke events, first in the long jump and with strong times in each. second in the triple jllinp with leaps of l5'3lfz\ and 32'lfz\ The team had their final meet respectively. Anderson also set on Tuesday, and is in Rochester . new school records in both these for the State Championships.. events. Rounding out the They will · be swimming the scoring in the field events for relays, as well as individual Union was Julie Halpern's events.. second place finish in the high jump. Woodwar~ and Anderson · the 400 and fourth in the 50 meter dash. Lynn Erdman placed fourth in a very close 800 meter race, with a time of 2:34,5. Julie Halpern and Barb Etzel took second and third respectively in the 200, w.;times of 29.1 and 29.4 while Halpern also established a new school record. The . two mile relay team .of Nora Tuthill, Martha D~many, Pam Connors, and Gretchen Becker placed second with a time of 11:46 w-splits of 2:44.3, 2:47.3, 3:00.6, and 3:13.0 respectively. The evening ended with a first place finish for the mile relay team of Etzel, Sweeney, Halpern, and ·Lee. They easily outdistanced the competition clocking a time of 4:30.1 w-splits of 68.1, 70.6, 65.9 and 65.3 respectively. Romer Named to AII-Sig Team · have both qualified for the state meet. Union was able to score points in all !>ut one of the running events. Jenny Lee took a fourth in the 1500 with a time of 5:10. This was the final meet of the regular season for the women's track team; however, nine members have qualified for the New York State Meet. They will compete this Friday and Saturday in Fredonia, New York. Union College .Q.efensive end Rich Romer has been named an All.Sig Football Selection for the 1985 season. Selections honor outstanding varsity football players who are members of Sigma Chi. Romer, a sophomore from East Greenbush, NY, is a member of the Sigma Chi chapter on the Union campus. The selections are made annually from nominations submittted by any of the Fraternity's 193 undergraduate chapters with members who are Rouriqw· 169 J a~ SIJ·t'el Handmade Silver Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts, A Complete Line of Pipes & Smoking Accessories, Rock T's and Assorted Rock Group Items varsity football players. Previous honorees (with the:ir collegiate and professional affiliations) include Merlin· Olsen (Utah State '62), who was a lineman for the Los Angeles Rams; Bob Griese(Purdue '67), former quarterback for the Miami Dolphins; Mark Herr- mann (Purdue '81), a quar- terback for the San Diego Chargers; Chuck Howley (West Virginia '58), former linebacker for the Dallas CowbGys; Jim Turner (Utah State '64), former placekicker and fourth leading all-time scorer in pro football; and Dave Jennings (St. Lawrence '74), a punter f.or the New York Giants. 1985-86 Union College Men's Basketball Statistics 22 game totals Player G FG FGA FG% FT% Reb PT Avg. Kurt Fox 22 173 318 54.4 69.2 161 394 17.9 Todd Lafayette 22 95 213 44.6 47.7 146 222 10.1 Rob Parento 22 88 190 46.3 50.0 37 185 8.4 Neil Winawer 22 73 144 50.6 70.9 87 168 7.6 Tom Beck 22 70 150 46.6 38.8 56 147 6.7 Joe Romer 21 59 111 53.1 68.9 54 138 6.6 Doug Gregory 20 32 69 46.3 79.4 64 95 4.11 Bruce Witherspoon 8 16 24 66.7 62.5 19 37 4.6 Ken Levine 22 38 78 48.7 73.0 44 95 4.3 Steve DeBalso 15 17 43 39.5 70.0 19 41 2.7 Tim Diemoz 9 6 16 37.5 83.3 7 71 1.9 Scott Gibbs 9 5 11 45.4 00.0 6 11 1.2 Tim Coleman 16 5 14 35.7 75.0 17 16 1.0 Mike Miller* 4 1 6 16.7 50.0 6 4 1.0 Joe Hanley* 1 0 1 00.0 00.0 0 0 0.0 *No longer on the team Union's Totals 22 678 1387 48.9 6,3.8 774 1782 81.0 Opp. Totals 22 587 1252 46.9 69.3 703 1461 66.4 Record: 12·10 Home (7-3) Away (4-7) Neutral (1-0) tiiiiii11111111111111JIIIII11111111111111111111111111111Niliiiiiiii~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!II~Uniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii111UIII!IIII~IIIIIIIIINIIIIIIIIIMNIIMIIIIII1111Nifii~IIHIIIIIIIIN111111111111111111Hii Freshman Matt Gregoire finished second in the Buffa.lo teenage weightlifting contest. Gregoire, competing in the 198 lb. weight class, squatted 475 lbs., benched 325 lbs., and deadlifted 530 lbs. MllllllllglfHIItlllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiii!IIIIIIIIIIIIIINIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllhlllilllllllllliiiUIIIINIIIIIIIIdn~lflllllllllllllllllllll.llllhlll!llhNIIHIIIIIIIIIHUIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIilllllf UNIONS N. Adams St. 6 UNION 55 UNION69 Binghamton 70 GARNET SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (12·10) BASKETBALL (12·11) Hamilton2 UNION4 Clarkson 45 St. Lawrence 55 UNION67 WOMEN'S BASkETBALL (8-11) R.P.I58 St. RoSe69 St. Rose72 Vassar93 Albany72 WOMEN'S SWIMMING (1-7) MEN'S SWIMMING (1-9) MEN'S TRACK UN ION 2nd in Capital District Meet WOMEN.'S iRACK UN ION 2nd inTri-meet UNION 43 UNION 53 UNION 58 UNION 43 UNION 24 OJ - c l1l E. OJ .... 1- :I 0 ..J >. .0 0 ... 0 J:: c. I • I .€ s t s v s n tl b s 1\ c ft r' b 1< C1 h f< R w '\ pi rr S] II c: c :;: c E E a. > +- u ·;:: 1- '1- 0 >- tl) .IE ... :::. 0 u ~ 0 J:: Q. I Co mi pe1 int he1 as she thi fiv

Page 18 CONCORDIENSJS, February 20, 1986 C!lnnrnrbitnsis SPORTS Team Effort Boosts Lady Swimmers By LISA FREED . In their closest meet yet, the women's swim team put up a good fight against the CoLlege of St. Rose. Although the team lost, the meet came down to the final relay event. Everyone had very good times; expecially the opening relay team of Betsy Boutwell, Laura Uhl, Deb Dostie, and Lisa Freed. Thek time in the 200 free relay not only qualified them for the State Championship meet this week, but also set a new Union College record in that event. Betsy swam to first place in the 500 meter freestyle while Deb captured second place in that same event. Betsy also took a first in the 1000 meter freestyle, as well as the 200 I.M. Other swimmers also had firsts for Union, including Marty Phipps, in the 100 meter but· terfly. Donna Gardiner also added points in that event, with her second place as well as a second in the diving com- petition. Jen Whalen had a stroag meet, with a second in the 50 meter freestyle while Lauri Adelstein also swam the 50, as well as the 100 free, with fourths in both events. Laura Uhl swam to a second place in the 100 meter backstroke while Lisa Freed took first in that event, as well as the 200 backstroke. Lisa's time in the 100 lowered her own pool record (set in 1983) at St. Rose, while her 200 back time lowered the current record. The team next travelled to Vassar College, for another strong meet. Betsy swam to her best time in the 500 freestyle, for a first place finish, as well as a second in the 200 free. Laura also swam the 500, for a second place, to add to her first in the 1000 free. Deb swam well, with thirds in the 200 breaststroke, and butterfly events, as well as a second in the 200 I.M. Marty adde!il points for her third in the 100 fly, 100 free and the 10() breaststroke, proving her quite a versatile swimmer. Jen had a third in the 50 free; and she and Lauri each swam the 50 and 10() free events. Donna dove very weH, placing third there, as well as S'Yirmning the breaststroke for the team. Finally, Lisa woa both the backstroke events, with strong times in each. The team had their final meet on Tuesday, and is in Rochester for the State Championships. They will be swimming the relays, as well as individual events. Romer Named to AII-Sig Team Union College defensive end Rich Romer has been named an All...Sig Football Selection for the 1985 season. Selections honor outstanding varsity football players who are members of Sigma Chi. Romer, a sophomore from East Greenbush, NY, is a member of the Sigma Chi chapter on the Union campus. The selections are made annually from nominations submittted by any of the Fraternity's 193 undergraduate chapters with members who are Team RIT Elmira Plattsburgh St Canislus UNION Oswego St. Gtllnese<> st. . Potsdam st. Buffalo Hamilton Hobart Cortland St. a rockport St. Rouriqu•· 169 ]H Stnl't Handmade Stiver Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts. A Complete Line of Pipes & Smoking Accessories, Rock T's and Assorted Rock Group Items varsity football players. Previous honorees (with their collegiate and professional affiliations) include Merlin Olsen (Utah State '62), who was a lineman for the Los Angeles Rams; Bob Griese(Purdue '67), former quarterback for the Miami Dolphins; Mark Herr- mann (Purdue '81), a quar- terback for the San Diego Chargers; Chuck Howley {West Virginia '58), former linebacker for the Dallas Cowboys; Jim Turner (Utah State '64), former placekicker and fourth leading w L T • 2J 3 0 19 3 0 15 5 1 13 6 l 12 7 Q 12 7 0 l2 12 1 1(} 13 1 s 10 2 6 14 1 5 15 0 3 17 () 1 18 0 all·tilne scorer in pro football; and Dave Jennings (St. Lawrence '74), a punter for the New York Giants. PCT. GF GA .875 204 69 .864 132 49 .738 164 72 .675 no 89 .631 133 87 .63} M 5'1. .500 116 na .438 n1··· 1{)9 .353 59'' .. ~8 .311) . 7if''•' Hl9' .250 7'4.;1:,,.,, 142 .150 159 .053 176 1985-86 Union College Men's Basketball Statistics 22 game totals Player G FG FGA FG% FT% Reb PT Avg. Kurt Fox 22 173 318 54.4 69.2 161 394 17.9 Todd Lafayette 22 95 213 44.6 47.7 146 222 10.1 Rob Parente 22 88 190 46.3 50.0 37 185 8.4 Neil Winawer 22 73 144 50.6 70.9 87 168 7.6 Tom Beck 22 70 150 46.6 38.8 56 147 6.7 Joe Romer 21 59 111 53.1 68.9 54 138 6.6 Doug Gregory 20 32 69 46.3 79.4 64 95 4.fl Bruce Witherspoon 8 16 24 66.7 62.5 19 37 4.6 Ken Levine 22 38 78 48.7 73.0 44 95 4.3 Steve DeBalso 15 17 43 39.5 70.0 19 41 2.7 Tim Diemoz 9 6 16 37.5 83.3 7 71 1.9 Scott Gibbs 9 5 11 45.4 00.0 6 11 1.2 Tim Coleman 16 5 14 35.7 75.0 17 16 1.0 Mike Miller* 4 1 6 16.7 50.0 6 4 1.0 Joe Hanley* 1 0 1 00.0 00.0 0 0 0.0 *No longer on the team Union's Totals 22 678 1387 48.9 63.8 774 1782 81.0 Opp. Totals 22 587 1252 46.9 69.3 703 1461 66.4 Record: 12-10 Home (7·3) Away (4·7) Neutral {1·0) Mlllllllllllllllllilllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllil!llllllllhlllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIiiiHIIIIIIIIIUIIKIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Freshman Matt Gregoire finished second in the Buffalo teenage weightlifting contest. Gregoire, competing in the 198 lb. weight class, squatted 475 lbs., benched 325 lbs., and dead lifted 530 lbs. II!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIII!IfllllllililillltlilllililtlllililllilllilllllllllilililllllllililllllilllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllililllllllllllnllillllllllllliliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllll W. Track Finishes Strong ByMARTHADEMANY The Fifth Annual Union College Women's lnvitatienal Indoor Track & Field Meet was held Wednesday, February 12. · The Women's Track Team culminated their season by scoring 93 points and placing a strong second to Williams College's 118 point first-place finish. Albany State gamered · third place with 60 points. In the field events, Stephanie Woodard took first place in the shot put with a throw of 11.01 meters, setting a new school record. Laurie Anderson placed first in the long jump and second in the triple jump with leaps of 15'3 1 12\ and 32' 1 12\ respectively. Anderson also set new school records in both these events. Rounding out the scoring in the field events for Union was Julie Halpern's second place finish in the high jump. Woodward and Anderson have both qualified for the state meet. Union was able to score points in all but one of the running events. Jenny Lee took a fourth in the 1500 with a time of 5:10. Eileen Sweeney placed third in · the 400 and fourth in the 50 meter dash. Lynn Erdman placed fourth in a very close 800 meter race, with a time of 2:34.5. Julie Halpern and Barb Etzel took second and third respectively in the 200, w-times of 29.1 and 29.4 while Halpern also established a new schGol recGrd. The two mile relay team of Nora Tuthill, Martha Demany, Pam Connors, and Gretchen Becker placed second with a time of 11:46 w-splits of 2:44.3, 2:47.3, 3:00.6, and 3:13.0 respectively. The evening ended with a first place finish for the mile relay team of Etzel, Sweeney, Halpern, and Lee. They easily outdistanced the competition clocking a time of 4:30.1 w-splits of 68.1, 70.6, 65.9 and 65.3 respectively. This was the final meet of the regular season for the women's track team; however, nine members have qualified for the New York State Meet. They wiH compete this Friday and Saturday in Fredonia, New York. Women Tracksters start 800 meter run at Capital District meet. . -. ::.:·- DUTCJiM.SNSPORTSWEE:K February 20 * 26 THURSOAY2/20 Varsity Hockey at Norwich J. V, Basketball at SkJ.dmore Women's Swimrn.ing at NYS Meet FRIDA¥2/21 WomeH'i'S SWIMniin!il· at NYS Meet women's l'f'rdtinr Track at NV$ Meet UNIONS N. Adams St. 6 UNION 55 UNION69 Binghamton 70 GARNET SCOREBOARD HOCKEY (12·10) BASKETBALL (12-11) 7:00 7:00 Hamilton 2 UNION 4 Clarkson 45 St. Lawrence 55 UNION67 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (8-11) R.P.I58 St. Rose69 St. Rose 72 Vassar93 Albany72 WOMEN'S SWIMMING (1-7) MEN'S SWIMMING (1-9) MEN'S TRACK UN ION 2nd in Capital District Meet WOMEN'S TRACK UNION 2nd in Tri·meet UNION43 UNION 53 UNION 58 UNION43 UNION24 Q; +- c ro E QJ .... 1- ::> 0 ...J >- .0 0 +- 0 .c a. I l I ( r f I v v ~ r s . ( ! ( ' a + l • t- ~ v 0. ... l.. c ... c +- 0 .c c 1 0 m p€ in hE as sh th fh

CONCORD/ENS/8, February 20, 1986 Pag.e 19 By DOUGLAS LLOYD Congratulations to Todd Flanigan for being selected as the Athlete of the Week for his hard work and scoring prowess this season. Todd has anchored the first .lirie for the skating Dutchmen since Captain Curt Cole and Chris Huntington recently went down with shoulder separations. Todd .has spent almost the whole season on the first line and has 21 points to show for it, one point shy of leading the tea:rp.. Todd'S first multiple-goal game came agamst North Adams State last week, scoring two, giving him seven goals for the .season, a single season high. Todd Fl'amigan Tnis senior forward hails from 'Troy, New York, where he spent three yeats at Troy High School before at.tending Northfield Mount Herman Prep School. Todd's ~uccess this season, according to coach Charlie Morris om is due to the fact that \he's not afraid to get his hand$ dhty,\ and can often be found successfully digging the . puck out of the corners. Coach Morrison also stated that .S ''Todd is the most improved -g_ player on the team.\ Todd, a o brother at Chi Psi and an V) electrical engineer major, will be once again joined by Curt Cole for tonight's game at Norwich. Tyson KO' s Ferguson By JAY GROSSMAN The Capitai District area is a region that has failed . in its efforts to attract professional .sports teams. Baseball, basketball, and hockey are all sports that the region is star- ving for and could probably support. However, owners of major league franchises feel that the area is not ready for bigtime professional sports. But, the Capital District can support national sports as it has Mike Tyson. Tyson is an up-and- coming 19 year old heavyweight from Catskill, with an 18-0 record, all of which have been by knockouts. He has grown to love upstate New York and he consideres this area to be his home. This past Sunday, Tyson fought Jesse Ferguson at the RPI Fieldhouse, in a bout that was telecast live on ABC Wide World of Sports. Thus Tyson ttas put the Capital District on the map and he has given the area a sport the_r can be excited about on the national level. Tyson defeated Ferguson of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, with a lmockout punch at 1:19 in the sixth round, a right uppercut to the nose, and he later said, \I always try to catch them right on the tip of the nose because I try to push the bone into the brain. \ When asked about fighting in front of the home crowd, Tyson said that he was naturally con- centrating on his opponent when he was in the ring but he did feel the crowd rallying behind him, especially when he came out of his dressing room. In Tyson's 18 bouts so far, no fighter has gone more than six rounds with him. After the fight, he proclaimed, \I don't surround myself with negative people. I am going to be champion of the W()rld .. \ In the post-fight press con- ference, Tyson's manager Bill Cayton announced that he will be fighting on the March lOth card at the Nassau Coliseum which will feature the Mugabj... Hagler bout. Cayton also said that Tyson would return to fight in the area on March 29. Someday Tyson could fight for the heavyweight championship in the Capital District. In the other nationally televised fight that was on the card, former WBA World Heavyweight Champion Mike Weaver defeated Carl \The Truth\ Williams of White Plains, who went 15 rounds with Larry Holmes last May. Weaver delivered the devastating blow at 2:37 of the second round ana Williams had to be picked up off the canvass. Weaver said, \I need to win, and I told people back home it wouldn't go past three rounds. I had no doubt in my mind that I was going to knock him out.\ Boxing is becoming a part of the Capital District. The area is growing and all three cities are excited. The sport is big, and the Capital District's got it. 1985-86 Uniot:t Cot lege Hockey Stats Overall rr> c 0 :,:: 0 E 0 I.. 0.. >- ..... u ·c 1- ..... 0 >- Vl ~ I.. ::l 0 u .e 0 ..c Q. The next Heavyweight Champ- Mike Tyson? Hoopsters Fall to Binghamton Continued from page 20 midway through· the first period. With 5:52 to go before intermission, the Saints still held an 8-point advantage, 22·14, as Pat McGonagle banked in a short-range jumper. Union cut this deficit in half, 22-18, with five minutes left in the period on back-to-back baskets by Kurt Fox and Rob Parento. St; Lawrence tallied the half's next 6 points, in building a 10-point lead, 28--18. Kurt Fox scored for Union at 2:48 to bring the Dutchmen to within eight, 2~~20. This was the score as the half ended. GMS GLS A · Pts \'\\'~<···'·'·'\''··'\'·' . ...,' .• ''. J~:·:~· . ., .. 't, .. '\.\\''\''\''.Ji ·'\ ~( .· .• ~;, ... ;A . '$ '' ,, . . .ltf ;. ·' , .. : ·' '-\\\'''<•·'\ 10 B 9 g ll 4 4 9 2 10 5 6 1 7 2 5 l 3 1 1 1 1 2 0 .•... 0. 2 .. l (l o· 1 t) l 0 lS 17 15 13 12 n 8 7 4 2 2 2 .2 1 1 t The second half was an en- tirely different story. Union outscored St. Lawrence 14-6, to open the half and tied the score at 34 on a Todd Lafayette basket with 13:46 remaining. After the teams traded a couple of hoops, .Neil Winawer hit on two free throws to give Union the lead for good, 40-38, at 11: 34. Th.e Dutchmen never looked back after this point. The lead grew <!rnnrnrbitnsis SPORTS ·Charlie Slotnik Looking at Sports Last Sunday, at the R.P.I. Fieldhouse, Stephon Frost won his seventh professional fight . liefeating Maine middleweight champion, Tom Cole. The referee stopped the fight at the 1:31 of the second round after Frost delivered a right hand blow to Cole's head; which set up the knockdown punch. Frost came out cautious in the first round, not delivering any vicious right hands to Cole's head, but instead concentrating on landing punches on Cole's body and side. \I should have gone at him sooner. I easily could have done in the first round what I did to him in the second round,\ Frost said after the fight. In the second round, Frost, an electrical engineering student, exploded with a flurry of punches to Cole's head and face that forced Cole against the ropes. Cole was cut in the face, badly bleeding from a bloody nose, and in a daze when Frost delivered the final blow. \I noticed he was awkward in the first round, I saw him flinch a few times and in the second round I knew I could land more punches to his head.\ \I was pleased withStephon's performance, he did a good job pressing his attack,\ his trainer Matt Baranski said. Originally Frost was scheuled to fight before Mike Tyson, which would have meant an audience of 7,500, rather than just the 500 who were still there at the time of his fight. Stephon Frost's next fight will be Saturday, March 1st. at the Colonie Coliseum. Skating Dutchmen Wrap Up Regular Season Tonight, the Union College hockey team will play a crucial game against Norwich College in Northfield, Vermont. The Skating Dutchmen have vir- tually no chance of playing at home in the upcoming E.C.A.C. Division II West playoffs, but need a victory against a playoff caliber team in order to build momentum for the playoffs. \We've lacked consistency as of late, we need a win in tonight's game to establish consistency. We'll need con- sistency to be successful in the playoffs,\ said Coach Charlie Morrison. The pairings for the playoffs will be announced Monday, Feb. 24. In the first game of the playoffs Union will most probably play Plattsburgh St., a team that has already beat the Dutchmen twice this season. However, Morrison is confident the Dutchmen can beat Nor- Wich, Plattsburgh, Middlebury and any other team they will to double figures, 58-48, when Neil Winawer made one of two foul shots with 3: 26 showing. Tim Coleman's two free throws at 0: 25 gave the Dutchmen their largest advantage of the game, 15 points, 68-53. Union went on to post a 69-55 victory. Kurt Fox's 23 points and seven rebounds paced Union. Neil Winawer added 11 points and Todd Lafayette had 10 points and 11 rebounds for the Dutchmen. DUTCHMEN NOTES ..... Union improved its road record to 4-7 with the back-to-back wins over the weekend..... Overall the Dutchmen are 12-10 with two have to play. \We can beat anybody when we play our game. We have to dump the puck in and have an aggressive forecheck. If we can generate the same scoring opportunities, and keep the same intensity for three periods every game, we'll be suc- cessful.\ Wayne McDougall will start in goal tonight. McDougall has a 3.11 goals against average, and has a history of playing excep- tionally well in important gameslate in the season. Curt Cole will return to the lineup after missing three games with a separated shoulder. Cole Will play on Union's first line with Nelson Said and Todd Flanigan. Scott Cyr will center Tom Hodgins and Gary Temush. Union's other two lines will have Sean Norton in between Dave Weiss and Tom Brandell. And, Scott Richardson will center for Rich Prezziotti and Darren Stephens. A Story of Courage Most students that do not make a varsity squad even- tually quit because of frustration. However, Craig Blum is different. Craig Blum finished his fourth season of J.V. Hockey last Saturday. In his four years of hoekey at Union, Craig never played in a varsity game, but that did not matter to him. Craig played hockey because he loved playing and being around hockey. This season was Craig's most disappointing, due to the team's losing season. \I'm still glad I played and carried my commitment to the end,\ said Craig while walking back to the Chi Psi fraternity after his last game. Craig was elected captain this season by his teammates, primari'IY freshman. Craig accepted this position, and was committed to leading by example: always being on time for practice, always putting in 100 percent effort, and helping the coaches. In the last week of the season, Craig hurt his arikle. He was unable to skate in the final two practices, but was determined to play in the final game. Craig went out on the ice and played anyway. In his first shift, Craig won a face off and passed the puck to Mike Raymond who scored, Craig assisted. Twenty minutes later, Craig was forced to leave the game due to his ankle . Craig Blum's hockey career is over, and although not illustrious, it was satisfying and fun. games left to play--vs. Binghamton, Feb. 18 and at LeMoyne, Feb. 22 ...... Kurt Fox continues to lead Union in scoring and rebounding with figures of 17.9 ppg and 7.3 rpg. Todd Lafayette follows Fox in both categories with 10.1 ppg and 6.7 rpg ..... As a team Union is averaging 71.3 ppg, while giving up 66.4 ppg to their op- . position ..... Tom Beck is closing in on Joe Wood's individual season record for steals. Wood holds thE) record, accumulating 61 steals during the 1982-83 season. CurrentlY, Beck has 49 steals entering the Binghamton contest.

CONCORDIENSIS, February 20, 1986 Page 19 By DOUGLAS LLOYD Congratulations to Todd Flanigan for being selected as the Athlete of the Week for his hard work and scoring prowess this season. Todd has anchored the first line for the skating Dutchmen since Captain Curt Cole and Chris Huntington recently went down with shoulder separations. Todd has spent almost the whole season on the first line and has 21 points to show for it, one point shy of leading the team. Todd's first multiple-goal game came against North Adams State last week, scoring two, giving him seven goals for the season, a single season high. Todd Flanigan This senior forward hails from Troy, New York, where he spent three years at Troy High School before attending Northfield Mount Herman Prep School. Todd's success this seasan, according to coach Charlie Morrisom is due to the fact that \he's not afraid to get his hands dirty,\ and can often be found successfully digging the puck aut of the corners. Coach Morrisan also stated that t \Todd is the most improved \§_ player on the team.\ Todd, a o brother at Chi Psi and an Vi electrical engineer major, will be once agaiN joined by Curt Cole for tonight's game at Norwich. Tyson KO' s Ferguson By JAY GROSSMAN The Capital District area is a region that has failed in its efforts to attract professional sports teams. Baseball, basketball, and hockey are all sports that the region is star- ving for and could probably support. However, owners of major league franchises feel that the area is not ready for bigtime professional sports. But, the Capital District can support national sports as it has Mike Tyson. Tyson is an up-and- coming 19 year old heavyweight from Catskill, with an 18-0 record, all of which have been by knockouts. He has grown to love upstate New York and he consideres this area to be his home. This past Sunday, Tyson fought Jesse Ferguson at the RPI Fieldhouse, in a bout that was telecast live on ABC Wide World of Sports. Thus Tyson has put the Capital District on the map and he has given the area a sport they can be excited about ., on the national level. Tyson defeated Ferguson of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, with a knockout punch at 1:19 in the sixth round, a right uppercut to the nose, and he later said, \I always try to catch them right on the tip of the nose because I try to push the bone into the brain.\ When asked about fighting in front of the home crowd, Tyson said that he was naturally con- centrating on his opponent when he was in the ring but he did feel the crowd rallying behind him, especially when he came out of his dressing room. In Tyson's 18 bouts so far, no fighter has gone more than six rounds with him. After the fight, he proclaimed, \I don't surround myself with negative people. I am going to be champion of the world.'' In the post-fight press con- ference, Tyson's manager Bill Cayton announced that he will be fighting on the March lOth card at the Nassau Coliseum which will feature the Mugabi- Hagler bout. Cayton also said that Tyson would return to fight in the area on March 29. Someday Tyson could fight for the heavyweight championship in the Capital District. In the other nationally televised fight that was on the card, former WBA World Heavyweight Champion Mike Weaver defeated Carl \The Truth\ Williams of White Plains, who went 15 rounds with Larry Holmes last May. Weaver delivered the devastating blow at 2:37 of the second round and Williams had to be picked up off the canvass. Weaver said, \I need to win, and I told people back home it wouldn't go past three rounds. I had no doubt in my mind that I was going to knock him out.\ Boxing is becoming a part of the Capital District. The area is growing and all three cities are excited. The sport is big, and the Capital District's got it. 1985·86 Union College Hoc::key Stats Overall \' c:: 0 +- 0 E 0 1... a.. >- +- u >- <ll <1> - 1.. ::J 0 v 0 - 0 .c:: Q. / Player Duane Joyce Curt Cole Todd Flanigan Tom Hodgins John MacKenzie GaryTemush Nelson Said Scott Cyr Dave Appleby Darren Stephens Chris Huntington Dave Weiss Tom 8randell Scott Manley Mike Raymond Keith Robertson Mike Forhan Bill snow Gavin Morton . Rich Preziotti Wayne McDougall Rick Rockett Scott Richardson Jim McLaughlin Sean Norton Goalies Wayne McDougall Toby O'Brien The next Heavyweight Champ· Mike Tyson? Hoopsters Fall to Binghamton Continued from page 20 midway through the first period. With 5:52 to go before intermission, the Saints still held an 8-point advantage, 22-14, as Pat McGonagle banked in a short-range jumper. Union cut this deficit in half, 22-18, with five minutes left in the period on back-to-back baskets by Kurt Fox and Rob Parento. St. Lawrence tallied the half's next 6 points, in building a 10-point lead, 28-18. Kurt Fox scored for Union at 2:48 to bring the Dutchmen to within eight, 28-20. This was the score as the half ended. GMS GLS A Pts 23 12 lO 22 . 20 12 9 21 22 7 14 21 23 8 13 21 22 3 18 21 23 10 B 18 21 9 8 17 20 11 4 15 23 4 9 13 22 2 lO 12 18 5 6 11 22 1 7 6 23 2 5 7 21 1 3 4 7 1 1 2 11 1 1 2 19 2 0 2 15 0 2 2 9 l 0 1 20 0 1 1 18 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 21 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 Gms sv GA GAS 18 447 55 3.06 5 101 16 3.20 The second half was an en- tirely different story. Union outscored St. Lawrence 14-6, to open the half and tied the score at 34 on a Todd Lafayette basket with 13:46 remaining. After the teams traded a couple of hoops, Neil Winawer hit on two free throws to give Union the lead for good, 40-38, at 11:34. The Dutchmen never looked back after this point. The lead grew OJnucnrbitnsi:& SPORTS Charlie Slotnik Looking at Sports Last Sunday, at the R.P.I. have to play. Fieldhouse, Stephon Frost won his seventh professional fight defeating Maine middleweight champion, Tom Cole. The referee stopped the fight at the 1:31 .of the secmtd round after Frost delivered a right hand blow to Cole's head; which set up the knockdown punch. \We can beat anybody when we play our game. We have to dump the puck in and have an aggressive forecheck. If we can generate the same scoring opportunities, and keep the same intensity for three periods every game, we'll be suc- cessful.\ Frost came out cauthms in the first round, not delivering any vicious right hands to Cole's head, but instead concentrating on landing punches on Cole's body and side. ''I should have gone at him sooner. I easily could have done in the first round what I did to him in the second round,\ Frost said after the fight. In the second round, Frost, an electrical engineering student, exploded with a flurry of punches to Cole's head and face that forced Cole against the ropes. Cole was cut in the face, badly bleeding from a bloody nose, and in a daze when Frost delivered the final blow. \I noticed he was awkward in the first round, I saw him flinch a few times and in the second round I knew I could land more punches to his head.\ \I was pleased with Stephon's performance, he did a good job pressing his attack,\ his trainer Matt Baranski said. Originally Frost was scheuled to fight before Mike Tyson, which would have meant an audience of 7,500, rather than just the 500 who were still there at the time of his fight. Stephon Frost's next fight will be Saturday, March 1st. at the Colonie Coliseum. Skating Dutchmen Wrap Up Regular Season Tonight, the Union College hockey team will play a crucial game against Norwich College in Northfield, Vermont. The Skating Dutchmen have vir- tually no chance of playing at home in the upcoming E.C.A.C. Division II West playoffs, but need a victory against a playoff caliber team in order to build momentum for the playoffs. \We've lacked consistency as of late, we need a win in tonight's game to establish consistency. We'll need con- sistency to be successful in the playoffs,\ said Coach Charlie Morrison. The pairings for the playoffs will be announced Monday, Feb. 24. In the first game of the playoffs Union will most probably play Plattsburgh St., a team that has alreadv beat the Dutchmen twice this season. However, Morrison is confident the Dutchmen can beat Nor- wich, Plattsburgh, Middlebury and any other team they will to double figures, 58-48, when Neil Winawer made one of two foul shots with 3:26 showing. Tim Coleman's two free throws at 0:25 gave the Dutchmen their larg~st advantage of the game, 15 pomts, 68-53. Union went on to post a 69-55 victory. Kurt Fox's 23 points and seven rebounds paced Union. Neil Winawer added 11 points and Todd Lafayette had 10 points and 11 rebounds for the Dutchmen. DUTCHMEN NOTES ..... Union improved its road record to 4-7 with the back-to-back wins over the weekend..... Overall the Dutchmen are 12-10 with two Wayne McDougall will start in goal tonight. McDougall has a 3.11 goals against average, and has a history of playing excep- tionally well in important gameslate in the season. Curt Cole will return to the line:1p after missing three games with a separated shoulder. Cole will play on Union's first line with Nelson Said and Todd Flanigan. Scott Cyr will center Tom Hodgins and Gary Temush. Union's other two lines will have Sean Norton in between Dave Weiss and Tom Brandel!. And, Scott Richardson will center for Rich Prezziotti and Darren Stephens. A Story of Courage Most students that do not make a varsity squad even- tually quit because of frustration. However, Craig Blum is different. Craig Blum finished his fourth season of J.V. Hockey last Saturday. In his four years of hockey at Union, Craig never played in a varsity game. but that did not matter to him. Craig played hockey because he loved playing and being around hockey. This season was Craig's most disappointing, due to the team's losing season. \I'm still glad I played and carried my commitment to the end,\ said Craig while walking back to the Chi Psi fraternity after his last game. Craig was elected captain this season by his teammates, primarily freshman. Craig accepted this position, and was committed to leading by example: always being on time for practice, always putting in 100 percent effort. and helping the coaches. In the last week of the season, Craig hurt his ankle. He was unable to skate in the final two practices, but was determined to play in the final game. Craig went out on the ice and played anyway. In his first shift, Craig won a face off and passed the puck to Mike Raymond who scored. Craig assisted. Twenty minutes later, Craig was forced to leave the game due to his ankle. Craig Blum's hockev career is over, and although not illustrious, it was satisfying and fun. games left to play--vs. Binghamton, Feb. 18 and at LeMoyne, Feb. 22 ..... Kurt Fox continues to lead Union in scoring and rebounding with figures of 17.9 ppg and 7.3 rpg. Todd Lafayette follows Fox in both categories with 10.1 ppg and 6.7 rpg ..... As a team Union is averaging 71.3 ppg, while giving up 66.4 ppg to their op- position ..... Tom Beck is closing in on Joe Wood's individual season record for steals. Wood holds the record, accumulating 61 steals during the 1982-83 season. Currently, Beck has 49 steals entering the Binghamton contest.

Page20 ~ (I) c: ~ L 0 ...J 0 ~ ~ L ::l 0 u 0 0 .c: c. \0 0 .c: c: to.;. <( <II !t= en ·c. ~ >- .t:J 0 ... 0 .c: -o. Frost Wins on TKO in 2nd Round see Looking at Sports page 23 . . r Skaters Prepare for Vermont Road ·Games See Story Below Thursday, February 20, 1986 . . . Dutchmen Keep E.C.A.C. Hopes Alive . . . Hoopsters win 2 in a row on the road - By MARK VAN BUREN The last three Union basketball contests turned out to go against a pattern that the team has developed as the season has progressed. Last Tuesday, the Dutchmen lost at borne (for only the third time all year) in overtime to Hartwick, 74-73, while over the weekend they won two back-to-back road games (their third and fourth road victories respectively) over Clarkson, 55-45, and St. Lawrence, 69-55. Lose Squeaker in O.T. Against Hartwick, 15-4, Union employed a tough defense to stay in the game. Through the first 6: 18 of the opening half, only eight points had been scored by each team. Hartwick then ran off six quick points to grab a 14-8 lead at the 12:11 mark when Tim McGraw hit a 17-foot jumpshot. Union an- swered this run with a streak of ten unanswered points of their own to overcome the 6-point deficit and take a 4-point lead at 6:26, on a short jumper by Joe Romer. Hartwick's Rob Duplessis knotted the score at 18, when he hit from 13 feet out with just 4:55 to play in the half. From here,· Dutchman Joe Romer proceeded to score Union's last 8 points of the half as the teams entered halftime with Union holding a 26-23 advantage. Kurt Fox . and Romer each had lQ points in this first half, enabling Union 1 to have the lead going into the second half. Th.e Dutchmen increased their halftime lead to seven, 32- 25, just 2:38 into the new period on a bucket by Neil Winawer. The Warriors tied the game at 32, at 14:11, on seven straight points of their own, capped off by a 15-foot jumpshot by Rob Duplessis. When Kurt Fox hit two free throws with 9:32 left to play, Union grabbed its final lead of the second nalf, 42-40. Hartwick's Tom Hendricks scored the game's next five points to put the Warriors ahead 45-52, with 8:14 to go in regulation. Although tying the game four times after this point, Union was unable to get a lead for the remainder of the second half. Hartwick still held a 4-point lead, 59-55, with just 2: 46 left in the contest as Ray Ruff converted two free throws. Two straight baskets by Rob Parento at 2:15 and Tom Beck at 1 :22 tied the score at 59. Tim McGraw hit a jumpshot from 18 feet to put Hartwick ahead by two, 61-59, with only 58 seconds remammg. Rob Parento kept the Dutchmen alive by con- necting from 10 feet out to tie the game, 61~1, with 0:40 left. Ray· Ruff's 18-footer at the buzzer bit ·the klck rim and bounced out; s~nding the game into overtime. · Union scored six of the extra period's nine points to grab a 67- 64 lead on a baseline jumpshot by Joe Romer with 3:16 to play. Hartwick then made six con- secutive free throws to gain a 70-67 advantage with e11:actly two minutes remaining. Ken Levine cut the Union deficit to one, 70-69, on a jumper with 1:37 left, but Tim McGraw hit two free throws at 0:55 boosting the· Warrior lead back up to three, 72~9. Kurt Fox's jumber at 0:20 made the score 72-71 in favor of Hartwick, but again McGraw hit two free throws with only seven seconds left in overtime to put the Warriors ahead, 74-71. Rob Parento's basket with two seconds left was too little, too late, as Hartwick held on for a tough 74-73 victory. Hartwick converted 11 of 12 free throw attempts in the overtime period (including 8 of 8 by McGraw) to gain and preserve their lead. Kurt Fox led Union with 29 - apiece. Tim McGraw finished with 22 points for Hartwick. Hoopsters Win on the Road While Tuesday's game was nothing short · of· exciting, Friday's contest at Clarkson was definitely lacking in that respect. Union shut Clarkson out for the opening 4:01 of the game as they built up a 5-o lead on a basket by Kurt Fox and a 3- point play from Todd Lafayette. The Dutchmen increased their early 5-point lead to 9, 15~ at the 11:48 mark on a basket by Joe Romer (his third consecutive hoop). The Golden Knights narrowed the Union lead to 19-16 on a basket by Jon Iveson, eight minutes before the end of the first half. The Dutchmen upped their advantage to 7 points, 27- 20, on Kurt Fox's field goal at 2:18 of the opening half. Clarkson scored the last two points of the half, so the teams entered their lockerrooms with Union ahead, 27-22. In the second period, the Dutchmen gradually added to their halftime margin. At 12:11, Union enjoyed the biggest lead of the game, 11 po~ts, 39-28, on a Todd Lafayette fast-break dunk. After a Clarkson free throw, Joe Romer hit two jumpers in a row giving the Dutchmen a 43-29 lead with 9:24 left to play. Clarkson chiseled the Union ,advantage to 8 points, 49-41, on a jurnpshot by Chris Hoffman with well over 4:00 remaining in the constest. Two Kurt Fox jumpers, the second coming with 2:01 showing on tne clock, put the Dutchmen ahead 53-41, and erased any hopes of a Clarkson upset. Union received big games gram their front-line players-Joe Romer (16 pts. and 7 rebs.), Kurt Fox (16 pts. and 3 rebs.), Doug Gregory (6 pts. and 7 rebs.) and Todd .Lafayette (7 pts. and 6 rebs.). Union Scores 49 2nd Half Points Saturday, it looked as though the Dutchmen would suffer their eighth road lpss of the season. However, after a sluggish first half, they rebounded with a 49-point second half, to gain the victory. Union fell behind early against St. Lawrence, trailing by as many as eight points, 18-10, Continued on page 19 points and 12 rebounds. He was .. --------..---------- .... -- .. followed by Rob Parento and Joe Romer who added 16 points Pucksters Make Playoffs WRUC :89.7 FM. presents *UNION COLLEGE* HOCKEY ... Home ice unlikely By JOHN BRUCE The Union College Skating Dutchmen's record this past week was 1-1, as a result of a 5-2 victory over Hamilton and a 6-4 loss to North Adams State. The loss on last Saturday night eliminated the team's chances for home ice in the playoffs. The squad's record now is 12-10 overall, and 12-7 in the ECAC Division II West. Sophomore Scott Cyr le~ the Union attack against Hamtlton, as he scored two goalS and had one assist. The other Union goals were scored by junior defensemen Duane Joyce, Dave Appleby, and senior co-captain Tom Hodgins. Both Hodgins and senior John MacKenzie assisted on Appleby's and Joyce's goals, and the other assists were credited to seniors Dave Weiss and. Todd Flanigan. Senior goalie Wayne McDougall stopped 25 Continental shots, and he also picked up his first point of the season with an assist on Cyr's second goal, an open net shot. In their next game, the · Dutchmen fell to the North Adams State Mohawks. The squad trailed 4-0 early- in the second period, but rallied to make the. sco:re 4*3 on goals from Todd Flanigan, Tom Hodgins and Scott Cyr. The Mohawks then countered with two more goals before Flanigan scored his second of the game. John MacKenzie picked up three assists and sophomores Nelson Said, Gary Temush, juniors Dave Appleby, Duane Joyce and senior. Dave Weiss also received one assist. Sophomore goalie Toby O'Brien stopped 22 out of 28 Mohawk shots, as the Dut- chmen's home ice playoff chances slowly diminished. The Skating Dutchmen play at Norwich on Thursday, and at Middlebury Monday. Tonight at Norwich Monday at Middlebury Coverage begi·ns at 1 p .. m. * SPORTSLINE * Sunday at 11 : 15 p.m. after Tri.via ( t I ( i I E (j 1 .li }: .iJ t t ''V ·~ i: t: 1l s ~ 'V c iJ CJ Jl tl fl c ll l iJ iJ a e tl tl a 11 ll a tl e h p n p [ E p n d p y e· r1 a a p a e: tl n a tl ii VI 01 $1

CVX,No.15 D' Atidrea Defends Course Load Re.d·uction . . . - - :•o • ' . . By JOYR1)NYON professor. You'd need quite a number of those to reduce class Students seem to be more size significantly. Divide that unhappy now tha.n ever, due to . by 2,000 and also consider office many factors.· One of the main space and laboratories. In our >- components of this unhappiness. · best judgment, a prudent ~ is the reduction of the decision was made balancing e professorial course load and the what the College could ~ effect of this reduction. reasonably afford while · still c: Dr. Thomas D'Andrea, Vice bringing ourteaching load down ~ President of Academic Affairs, ta accomplish what we thought ~ gives. answers in response to the was very important: more time . o abundant .criticism. Also in this . for preparation, for individual . ~ interview, he informs :us of · attention with students, and to · a. some possible solutions that are be cQ.rnpetitive with other in· beingworkedoutatthistime~ stitutions for the best faculty. Joy Runyon: Since the course · JR: Do you find tbat the load for the professors has been number of iritroductory courses reduced, the class sizeS have and the sections of those been getting larger. One of the courses is comparable to the main attractions of Union is the · number offered in previous small class size. Wouldn't it years? make sense to maintain this 'TO: The year.isn't over, so we attraction at any cost rather can't tell with precision. In 1877 Vice-President f,or Adm·inistration, Thomas D'Andrea, responds to questions concerning Course Load Reduction. Forllm Proposes :-Gel- Time Postponement than allow such an adniirable engineering, we're offerin'g · · By DAVE GULLIVER and attractive quality to slip more sections. In the sciences, On Monday night the Student Even though Gel-Time may away? we're about the same. In the Forum met and passed a formal have a positive effect, it may Thomas D'Andrea: The humanities and social sciences, resolution that will be given t~ also bring about more decision to reduce the teaching we':re. qffering ~Ughtly few~r the Academi~ _A_ffairs Council problems,\ l1>ad wa~ made witb the · sections· a& 9f this H()int l~t ~AAC) r~qt:t~stipg_ tlu~t the Moss offered the example of :~~;J~f:~e ~~~e ~;~~rdwdr~g . · ~:~~- ~S:;e:tl;J:;~~,{~~;,. · ·-~~,..t%~·~!~~~t&~: J~:J:e!1:0~~fi{a!~~s 0 -~:: in mean class siZe. Never- anoth~r term to go; We. have · on campus are completed. free :time with students possible theless; we were convinced that already added extra faculty. It . Forum member Ste~e Moss and is attractive to prospective the quality of the teaching will take a while for that to_ gave the main reason for the faculty, it unexpectedly caused 'W'OUld iiiipro:v.e on several catch up. You don't have the: proposal: ''Some problems a substantial increase in class grounds, not the least of which flexibility in a system like a always accomp-any change. size. He and other members of is (the professors') preparation . c~llege. For example, if Elnglish · Some are predictable; some are the Student Forum feel that Gel- tinte. Time for consultation and Continued on page 2 une~~cted and come .up later. Time could have similiar un- J)ersonal attention ·of the ···~ ~ · · ;; .. ,, foreseen side effects which students would be more would hurt the college com- available if the teaching load 21 rl b t 0 ·s munity. were closer to that of our . . -\,A . u .0 . ·pe·· n O~t:J. Ted Bick, math professor and competition. The other; more chairman of the Faculty indirect way in which the Executive Committee, agrees quality of the education im· Co • R h d with that viewpoint. He said, proves as the result of that is . mpr, .om. IS. e . eac e .. ' \Most . faculty are pretty that we are more competitive . . . sympathetic to the plight of the for the best faculty. No other students tliis winter, With the college of Union's calibre has or Tuesday, Friday, and Saturday lack of facilities, tuition in· had as heavy a teaching load as nights. The hours are expected crease, raising of drinking age, Union did. The class size has not to be 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. The 21 Club lousy weather . . . There's a increased across the College, will feature a bar serving mixed good deal of .sympathy for the incidentally. It's decreased drinks, bottled beer, and wine. students' attitude.\ almost 20 percent in (ii Some kind of music system will )Vith this in mind but without engineering, for example. I \ be operated and some of the knowledge of the Forum's think what that really reflects is ~ stained glass from the old Pub action, Bick talked to George that in places where we've been ~ in Carnegie will be installed in , Smith, chairman of the AAC, able to anticipate pressures, we ~ the Lounge. Though the rules Continued on page 4 have responded to them. In ~ 'and regufations are yet to be places where we could not .e ironed out, Dean Mammola anticipate t~e shift in interest or o says that he expects the club to the different patterns of -a be operational soon. \Ideally\, enrollment, some of the classes . -the Dean said, \it will be in have gotten a little larger. My Beth Bernell · operation by next Tuesday preliminary figures show in the By DAVID MARIN (March 4),\ neighborhood of about 10 to 13 Following initial Student percent larger-primarily in After nearly two months of Forum activity on the proposal, Division 2, the Social Sciences. planning, the 21 Club will soon Dean Mammola attended a But when you say at all costs to become a reality on the Union Forutn meeting to discuss the preserve it, we must keep in College campus. Conceived and possibility of the 21 Club. mind who bears the cost, and I proposed by the Student Forum, · Shortly after that the issue was don't think one ought to try to the club ~ill be a gathering discussed at a Cabinet meeting preserve that at all costs when place for students over 21 who of the College's Administration. you consider that we have made wish to socialize and drink According to Vice-President every effort to keep tuition as together. The location of the for Finance · of the Student reasonable as we could. club will be Hale House Lower Forum, Beth Bemell, President .r.R: The tuition is increased by . Lounge. Morris was sympathetic to the another eight percent each year Along with the 21 Club in the present lack of a campus anyway. Would that make the • Lower Lounge, Hale House gathering place for studentS';': percentage. even greater, like itself will be open with a non- and a lack of unity amongst the · ·: ·· th · ht · t? alcoholic bar where underage students. Both Bernell and · ano er eig percen · d Mammola 1'n· d1\cated. tha.t·. 1'D: .J couldn't give you an stu ents can gather also. While \'\\' : ... ~ ........ • February 27, 1986 ZBT Charged With Hazing Pledge Oass Suspended By LINDA RAFFAELE This week the College took · action against Zeta Beta Tau for hazing one of its pledges. Consequently, the .pledge class has been suspended in- definitely, as have all ZBT social functions. The fraternity must also complete a hazing education project to be monitored by both the College and the national chapter and restructure its pledge program to eliminate any remnents of physical or mental hazing. The hazing incident occurred on Tuesday, February 18 at approximately 6:30 p.m. The brothers bad just finished dinner when one of the pledges mimicked a brother. For this the brother made him do twenty push-ups. After about the 12th pusl)-up, anQther brother put a hard plastic cup under his chin. The pledge did not see the cup and as he came down, he shattered it with his forehead. He was taken to Ellis Hospital where he received eight stitches in his forehead. It has been estimated that if the cup had been ab\ut three inches lower, he would have been blinded. This incident, although it was an accident, constitutes hazing as defined by New York State law. Said Dean Massa, \The organizations have been forewarned. They know that hazing is against the law. We're only doing what we said we would do in terms of their discipline.\ The . aforementioned action being taken against the fraternity is the discipline that the college has deemed proper. Continued on page 3 . -· '0 ::r s 0 C\ < r 0 c: -j .., • Ill 3 (1) ::J ib exact figure on that. One way to seniots will not be able to take President Morris played a The construction contihues ... think about this is that every drinks into Hale House and leading tole making the new assistant professor, tinderage students cannot enter establishment of the 21 Club assuming that you are hiring at the Lower Lounge, there is hope possible. the lowest level, for example, is tllat some cross-flow will occtlr in the neighborhood of $23;000. with seniors mixing with un- Wben you add fringe benefits derclassmen in the nO{l· onto that, it can costyou arounc;l alcoholic room. $30 1 000 .for a newly minted The club wlll be open ColllDlittee Formed The details of how the club Continued on page 2 In This Issue : Skellar Renovated . As The World Tums P· 3 P· 8

Pege2 CONCORDIENSIS, February27, 1986 Course Load Reduction Issues Addressed II) m .!:!! .r:: u Physical Plant Director Jack Hill explains reasons for poor snow removal. Hill Justifies Snow Removal Delay By ERIC FEINGOLD Amid the shortcomings of this term, the infamous Mohawk winter has hindered Union students from enjoying their campus. ·More specifically, several students have been victimized by the snow-laden sidewalks and roads that theoretically provide . direction for every occasion. The blame seems to fall on the shoulders of Physical Plant, the sector of the school responsible for campus maintenance. Frustrated complaints in previous issues of this publication as well as in- juries suffered from walks about campus have provided the impetus for an interview with Jack Hill, Coordinator of Physical plant. Perhaps the underlying reason behind the recent chaos in the maintenance of campus grounds is an issue of priorities. A system of \priority areas,\ has established a certain hierarchy of importance among the various transportation routes on campus. Parking lots and roads receive the first available care, and sidewalks ranlt third as a \priority area.'' Jack Hill vehemently ex- pressed his thanks to the people involved in the snow removal process and appreciates ·~heir many hours of hard work. He sincerely hopes that the campus population will consider the Physical Plant's maintenance record as a whole, and not judge their performance by only one storm. Continued from page 1 courses are over-subscribed and math courses are under- subscribed you can't simply go to the math professor and say, . \Sorry we need you to teach English this term.\ There's an inertia or a lag built into the system that doesn't enable you to respond immediately when you have pressures. I think it's ahnost a Pavlovian response on the part of some people, faculty included, to think that the onJy effective teaching·takes place in · small classes. It's interesting to notice that some of our most popular courses and professors routinely teach to very large classes. Some people are more effective in large settings and some in. smaller. The mean class size this Winter term versus last Winter term is something in the neighborhood of 22 to 24. I really wonder if you can tell the difference with that . magnitude of change. That's not · to say that if a course has typically been drawing 20 students and suddenly it's 40 that ypu!re not going to notice . the difference. The instructor will notice the difference when he has 40 papers to grade. Those are aberrations that you can't anticipate. The response is either to teach all 40 or to tell 20 of tbem, \Sorry you'll have to find something else,\ which then causes a whole different set of problems. I think we're responding. responsibly to student Shifts in interest and shifts in registration, but in some cases it certainly caught us by surprise. JR: I'd like to get back to the Evidently, a multi-faceted storm occurring four weeks ago prevented the mainte,nance · crew from effectively clearing the campus transportation routes. A combination of snow and freezing rain resulted in ice-embedded roads and sidewalks, a condition that incapacitates snow plowing equipment if not immediately remedied. According to Jack Hill, the storm unleashed its various forms of precipitation on a weekend, therefore diminishing the availability of Physical Plant· employees. Temperatures not exceeding twenty degrees in the following days prevented the use of salt or calcium chloride, measures that usually liberate concrete from the effects of ice. Administration, Fo~um, ·. Endm·se, New Social Gatheri~g Place Mr. Hill labeled the storm as one of the worst tempests to strike in the past six: years. When questioned about the need for more money or employees in order to effectively confront such overwhelming weather events, he denied any deficiency in budget or attitude. \It's not a lack of money, manpower, interest, or concern. It was a combination of con- ditions in the weather.\ Overtime hours were en- thusiastically given and all of the grounds crew, as well as several custodians, par- ticipated in the effort. Accor- ding to Mr. Hill, tbese added measures could not have been employed without the present funding from the College. Physical Plant admitted to not being proud of the delay and subsequent problems incurred from the storm; The College's recent addition of roads and parking lots creates a need for added snow removal equip- ment. Hill suggested a few improvements. He felt that larger snow blowers and trucks, with a capacity to carry large volumes of snow, should be purchased to eradicate the inconvenience of snow banks. Hill also stated that certain conditions might necessitate the contracting of outside plowing com.panies. Continued from page 1 will be run, how carding will be done, and other intricacies have not yet been concluded. To address these matters, a committee bas been formed of Dean Mamrriola, Director of Food Services Jan Gray, and Forum members R<Jbin Gross, Patrick Virnich, Steve Lipsky, and Julie · Mountain. The possibility of a non-Forum member is being considered. Bernell commented that having the two underclassmen on the committee will help to address the concerns of the underage population with regard to the non-alcoholic element of the plan. As always, there are still concerns about the sale of alcohol by the college., Dean Mamrnola believes, however, that a reasonable compromise has been reached which ad- dresses the needs of the students while remaining responsive to the respon- sibilities and liabilities of the College. Bernell, who has been involved with the issue from its conception during the first week of the term concurred with the Dean's view point. In next k ' . wee SISSUe ••• An in-depth study of Schaffer Library's facilities. Coverage of the Phi Beta Kappa discussion on pornography Resolution Found In light of the recent student administration tensions, both Mammola and Bernell felt that the resolution and imminent opening of the 21 Club are testimony to the- opportunities for cooperation and ac- complishment. Bernell com- mented, \I'm extremely pleased, I know there have be~n problems in the past and Will be in the future,'' but she indicated that she was very happy that a successful compromise was reached that is acceptable to both sides. Marnmola com- mented, \I would simply echo that answer,\ and added, \to me, there isn'tany problem that can't be solved the same way.\ Bernell concluded, \sometime~ it seems that there is a bigger gap than there is.\ introductory course questions for a minute. Have you decided to cycle more upper lever courses in lieu of cutting in .. troductory courses? Tl>: Different departments have responded to that in dif .. ferent ways. They are, after all, the primary pedagogical decision of how to deploy their resources. One way to keep introductory classes smaller is to cycle more of the advanced courses, and some departments have chosen to do that. In some cases departments simply eliminated courses from their curriculum that they feel are no longer necessary. That . gives them flexibility for offering more introductory courses. Some are experimenting with different formats. Perhaps a larger class at the intro level in order to preserve what might be - important at the advanced level, such as the senior thesis or advanced research. It's just a fact of arithmetic that if you're going to have a one-tO\ · . one course in the senior thesis, there's going to have to be a course with 30 ot 40 .students in it. \The mean class size this Winter term versus last Winter term is something in the neighborhood of 22 to 24. I really wonder if you can tell the difference with that magnitude of change.\ -D'Andrea JR: As of now, are most professors assigned to . in- troductory courses, or do they choQse whether or not they want to teach an intro course? · TD: Again, the departmentS have primary responsibility and authority over this, but one of the strengths of a college like Urtion is that faculty teach at pretty much allevels. We really expect our faculty to be able to teach intro and intermediate and advanced level courses; and they do. I think it would be unhealthy for our faculty at Union to be only teaching ad• vanced level courses, or on the other hand, only teaching intro level courses. Class size vs. Ratio JR: There's a lot of discussion on campus about the student- facUlty ratio being 13:1 and last week in Concordiensis someone wrote a letter to the editor saying that there are oyer 200 faculty listed, so the ratio is fictually lower. But students still wonder why the large class size. Could you explain the relation between class size and the ratio? TD: There may well be 200 names listed, but to use that for the ratiQ would be misleading. There are a number of ap- pointments, if you .read · carefully, like research associates; there are emer-itus faculty listed back there who are retired. The real way to do that, the most honest way, is to take the number of actual ,teaching faculty. If you take · · that number you come up with . approximately 155 full-time facUlty teaching at Union in the · Fall tetm .. Then you divide the number Qf students by that and you come up with about 13.3 for the Fall term. You have 13 for the ratio, but ever:y student takes nine courses a year and every faculty teaches six. We have 2,000 students and 150 faculty. That means we're · going to have 18,000 registrations and 900 courses. And so that divides out to a mean class size of 20, even though the ratio is 13. When the ·· College advertises a student- faculty ratio, that doesn't mean that the average class size is going to equal that ratio be.cause you also have to know how many courses a student takes and how many courses a professor teaches. Then you can figure out what you would ex- pect the mean class size to be. What this number doesn't do is factor out the release time that a department head gets for administrative duties. And there are 'a few other anomalies. So it turns out that the mean class size is in ·the neighborhood -of 22 to 24. JR: What, in general;ts your impression of the unrest go-ing on about this?· · , TD: Well, the one thing that I think . students really have a legitimate complaint about is the situation where they were closed out of a course twice in·a row. That's something you can respond to by keeping the waiting list from Fall term and giving preference to those people who didn't get in the first time, assuming they still want to take the course. I've in- structed the department heads to readdress that problem and try to make sure that a student who wanted to get into the course in the Fall and gets Left out in the Winter gets preference in the Spring. The other thing that I believe is a little bit backwards is the practice in some places of giving preference to seniors in introductory level courses. I think that preference for ad- mission into intro classes should go to freshmen, then sophomores, and on up. It's at that level that the student needs Continued on page 5

CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 Ill tO Ol .c: v I \ • Physical Plant Director Jack Hi 11 explains reasons for poor snow removal. Hill Justifies Snow Removal Delay By ERIC FEINGOLD Amid the shortcomings of this term, the infamous Mohawk winter has hindered Union students from enjoying their campus. More specifically, several students have been victimized by the snow-laden sidewalks and roads that theoretically provide direction for every occasion. The blame seems to fall on the shoulders of Physical Plant, the sector of the school responsible for campus maintenance. Frustrated complaints in previous issues of this publication as well as in- juries suffered from walks about campus have provided the impetus for an interview with Jack Hill, Coordinator of Physical plant. Perhaps the underlying reason behind the recent chaos in the maintenance of campus grounds is an issue of priorities. A system of \priority areas,\ has established a certain hierarchy of importance among the various transportation routes on campus. Parking lots and roads receive the first available care, and sidewalks rank third as a \priority area.\ Jack Hill vehemently ex- pressed his thanks to the people involved in the snow removal process and appreciates their many hours of hard work. He sincerely hopes that the campus population will consider the Physical Plant's maintenance record as a whole, and not judge their performance by only one storm. Course Load Reduction Issues Addressed Continued from page 1 courses are over-subscribed and math courses are under- subscribed you can't simply ga to the math professor and say, \Sorry we need you tg teach English this term.\ There's an inertia or a lag l>uilt into the system that doesn't enable you to respond immediately when you have pressures. I think it's almost a Pavlovian response on the part of some people, faculty included, to think that the only effective teaching takes place in small classes. It's interesting to notice that some of our most popular courses and professors routinely teach to very large classes. Some people are more effective in large settings and some in smaller. The mean class size this Winter term versus last Winter term is something in the neighborhood of 22 to 24. I really wonder if you can tell the difference with that magnitude of change. That's not to say that if a course has typically been drawing 20 students and suddenly it's 40 that you're not going to notice the difference. The instructor will notice the difference when he has 40 papers to grade. Those are aberrations that you can't anticipate. The response is either to teach all 40 or to tell 20 of them, \Sorry you'll have to find something else,\ which then causes a whole different set of problems. I think we're responding responsibly to student shifts in interest and shifts in registration, but in some cases it certainly caught us by surprise. JR: I'd like to get back to the . introductory course questions for a minute. Have you decided to cycle more upper level· courses in lieu of cutting in- troductory courses? TD: Different departments have responded to that in dif- ferent ways. They are, after all, the primary pedagogical decision of how to deploy their resources. One way to keep introductory classes smaller is to cycle more of the advanced courses, and some departments have chosen t() do that. In some cases departments simply eliminated courses from their curriculum that they feel are no longer necessary. That gives them flexibility for offering more introductory courses. Some are experimenting with different formats. Perhaps a larger class at the intro level in order to preserve what might be important at the advanced level, such as the senior thesis or advanced research. It's just a fact of arithmetic that if you're going to have a one-to- one course in the senior thesis, there's going to have to be a course with 30 ot 40 students in it. ''The mean class size this Winter tenn versus last Winter term is something in the neighborhood of 22 to 24. I really wonder if you can tell the difference with that magnitude of change.\ -D'Andrea TD: Tbere may well be 200 names listed, but to use that for the ratio would be misleading. There are a number of ap- pointmeiJts, if you read carefully, Fike research associates; there are emeritus faculty listed back there who are retired.. The real way to do that, the most honest way, is to take the number of actual .teaching faculty. If you take that number you come up with approximately 155 fuU-time faculty teaching at Union in the Fall tenn. Then you divide the number of students by that and you come u~ wit!1 about 13.3 for the Fall term. You have 13 for the ratio, but every student takes nine courses a year and every faculty teaches six. We have 2,0()[) students and 150 faculty. That means we're going to have 18,000 registrations and 900 courses. And so that divides out to a mean class size of 20, even though the ratio is 13. When the College advertises a student- faculty ratio, that doesn't mean that the average class size is going to equal that ratio · because you also have to know how many courses a student takes and how many courses a professor teaches. Then you can figure out what you would ex- pect the mean class size to be. What this number doesn't do is factor out the release time that a department head gets for administrative duties. And there are · a few other anomalies. So it turns out that the mean class size is in the neighborhood of 22 to 24. Evidently, a multi-faceted storm occurring four weeks ago prevented the maintenance crew from effectively clearing the campus transportation routes. A combination of snow and freezing rain resulted in ice-embedded roads and sidewalks, a condition that incapacitates snow plowing equipment if not immediately remedied. According to Jack Hill, the storm unleashed its various forms of precipitation on a weekend, therefore diminishing the availability of Physical Plant employees. Temperatures not exceeding twenty degrees in the following days prevented the use of salt or calcium chloride, measures that usually liberate concrete from the effects of ice. Administration, Forum Endorse New Social Gathering Place JR: As of now, are most professors assigned to in- troductory courses, or do they choose whether or not they want to teach an intro course? TD: Again, the departments have primary responsibility and authority over this, but one of the strengths of a college like Union is that faculty teach at pretty much allevels. We really expect our faculty to be able to teach intro and intermediate and advanced level courses; and they do. I think it would be unhealthy for our faculty at Union to be only teaching ad- vanced level courses, or on the other hand, only teaching intro level courses. JR: Wh.at, in general, is your impression of the unrest going on ab()ut this? TD: Well, the one thing that I think students really have a legitimate complaint about is the situation where they were closed out of a course twice in a row. Thafs something you can respond to by keeping the waiting list fl\om Fall term and giving prefel\ence to those people who didn't get in the first time, ass11ming they still want to take the course. I've in- structed the department heads to readdress that problem and try to make sure that a student who wanted to get into the course in the Fall and gets left out in the Winter gets preference in the Spring. The other thing that I believe is a little bit backwards is the practice in some places of giving preference to seniors in introductory level courses. I think that preference for ad- mission into intro classes should go to fl.\eshmen then sophomores, and on up. It's at that level that the student needs Mr. Hill labeled the storm as one of the worst tempests to strike in the past six: years. When questioned about the need for more money or employees in order to effectively confront such overwhelming weather events, he denied any deficiency in budget or attitude. \It's not a lack of money, manpower, interest, or concern. It was a combination of con- ditions in the weather.'' Overtime hours were en- thusiastically given and all of the grounds crew, as well as several custodians, par- ticipated in the effort. Accor- ding to Mr. Hill, these added measures could not have been employed without the present funding from the College. Physical Plant admitted to not being proud of the delay and subsequent problems incurred from the storm. The College's recent addition of roads and parking lots creates a need for added snow removal equip- ment. Hill suggested a few improvements. He felt that larger snow blowers and trucks, with a capacity to carry large volumes of snow, should be purchased to eradicate the inconvenience of snow banks. Hill also stated that certain conditions might necessitate the contracting of outside plowing companies. Continued from page 1 will be run, how carding will be done, and other intricacies have not yet been concluded. To address these matters, a committee has been formed of Dean Mammola, Director of Food Services Jan Gray, and Forum members Robin Gross, Patrick Virnich, Steve Lipsky, and Julie Mountain. The possibility of a non-Forum member is being considered. Bernell commented that having the two underclassmen on the committee will help to address the concerns of the underage population with regard to the non-alcoholic element of the plan. As always, there are still concerns about the sale of alcohol by the college., Dean Mammola believes, however, that a reasonable compromise has been reached which ad- dresses the needs of the students while remaining responsive to the respon- sibilities and liabilities of the College. Bernell, who has been involved with the issue from its conception during the first week of the term concurred with the Dean's view point. In next week's issue ... An in-depth study of Schaffer Library's facilities. Coverage of the Phi Beta Kappa discussion on pornog.raphy Resolution Found In light of the recent student administration tensions, both Mammola and Bemell felt that the resolution and imminent opening of the 21 Club are testimony to the opportunities for cooperation and ac- complishment. Bernell com- mented, \I'm extremely pleased, I know there have been problems in the past and will be in the future,\ but she indicated that she was very happy that a successful compromise was reached that is acceptable to both sides. Mammola com- mented, ''I would simply echo that answer,\ and added, \to me, there isn't any problem that can't be solved the same way.\ Bernell concluded, \sometimes it seems that there is a bigger gap than there is.\ Class size vs. Ratio JR: There's a lot of discussion on campus about the student- faculty ratio being 13: 1 and last week in Concordiensis someone wrote a letter to the editor saying that there are over 200 faculty listed, so the ratio is actually lower. But students still wonder why the large class size. Could you explain the relation between class size and the ratio? Comtinued on page 5 THIS WEEK'S EVENTS 'J/27-President's Commission ontl1e Status of Women=. Gue$l\pealier-Hilacy Tann. HHLL12:30 p.m. . ··· . ·· , . · . , ,. . . . . · .. . · Entertainment .. by Erie House. ~free,,pizza'l0F''Bf1iinach mlJ>Witlt a ti!=ket stub from any HSDR·9-:38'Ji>;~~~2:~!~~t , \ . .. ··\· •• · · · 2t!l!7~,f~~'TJ~tfllotis~t>fErerJ1irtrtta· , ~~\~;;a4f:3mi;AtiQ.uUv~omtnin tile villages.\ ::;::_._,_-·· ::,_::~-_x_·;:-,::.·:·'f;:;.:~;. :;:- •. --..:..- · .. ::-: -. .;::- '

Gel -Time Postponement Advocated Biek Suggests F acuity Sympathy Continued from page 1 and made a similiar but in- dependent informal ·proposal. .Since there is ~'no urgency in· the implementation of Gel- Time,\ Bick said, \why not wait until after the completion of the Student Center and Alumni Gym?\ Bick adds that the suggestion will be con- sidered at the next AAC meeting as will the Forum's official request. The faculty vote on Gel-Time wiD probably not be held until April'2 atthe·earliest, according to 'Bick. The AAC will hear the new proposals by that time b11t any action will probably not occur until after the faculty vote. When asked for his prediction, Bick said that he expects a close vote that could go either way. He claims that the students can make a dif- ference if they make an effort to present a responsible opinion. Bick suggests that students should write down reasons for their opposition or support and hand the note to their teacher. \It's easy to talk and then forget,'' he said, \but _if it's in writing, the teacher can bring it Cll 'C 0 Vice PreSident for Administration of the Stlldent Forum, com- ment.son New Curriculum Proposal. Skellar Undergoes Renovations ·Facilities Expanded By DAVID MARIN In a recent interview, Director of Food Services Jan Gray outlined some of the changes occurring within. the food service facilities, most notably the Skellar. Over the past two weeks the Rathskellar has been intennittently closed for renovations that Gray sees as an enhancement in the . services available to students. 4i 'C 0 toaster, and the addition of more snack items. In addition there will be the introduction of grocery-type foods for students to take home. Gray says that she hopes the Skellar will be something that even off-campus students can use .. During spring term Gray plans to open the Skellar for breakfast. There is even the possibility of adding a fresh to the .meeting and present a legitimate reason.\ He suggests apother student poll as well, now that the student body is · t better informed. .2 Kathy K'eaveny, Forum , member, stresses student in- ~ volvement as well .. ''The faculty .e are concerned about the effect _g on students . and will be in- a. fluenced by our opinion,\ she said. \It would help if individual · orange juice machine. At present the Skellar' s hours are 12 to midnight except for Friday and Saturday when it is open until 2 a.m. The hours will be the same in the spring with the addition of the breakfast hours. At the present, the Skellar is. offering a Saturday brunch beginning at noon, with bagels and cream cheese among other offerings. . students ,went to their teachers and showed genuine concern and responsible reasons for objection.\ If the faculty ap- proves the plan, Gel-Time ·would begin a two-year trial period in the fall of 1986 unless the postponement proposal is accepted. ·Director· ·of 'Food Services, ;Jan Gray; · The actual additions to the Skellar's range of equipment include a Belgian Waffle maker, a chicken roaster --(designed for deep frying with less greast absorption), tran- sfer of the p~za ovens to the Skellar, a deli case, bagel Commenting on the changes she has introduced to the Skellar, Gray said, \I wanted to . have.the ability to have:mere,, ..better, and varied food available\ in an effort to keep interest in the Skellar alive despite the absence of beer. She insists that the Skellar· is still a good place to frequent. Gray added that the changes are largely a response to \reqeuest we had repeatedly in the past.'' College Takes Strong Stance on Hazing Details of Policy Outlined Continued from page 1 word \baser\ which means to strenuous physic~! exercise for HoweverJ when the national irritate or annoy. It also has an extended period. . . . chapter of ZBT meets in March roots in the English word 4) Dangerous Activities-All in New York City, it will decide \haze\ which means a vague or of the above ~and other whether any further confused state of mind. examples. no~ c1ted) w~en disciplinary action should be When we think about pledge COpl~med . with exces~n;e taken. activities as they relate to af- drmkmg, wheth~r . or not ~t IS While Massa believes that filiation with Greek forced. Any actiVIty reqmred action ~ust be taken against organizations, four distinctions (!>ye~ly o~ covertly). f?r. af- any fraternity that hazes, he clearly emerge, with the first filiatiOn whiCh results m InJury says that \The college being \non-hazing\ and the or death. recognizes that the individuals remaining three being varying 1!te C?llege's respon~e to of ZBT are mature, responsible degrees of hazing. hazmg w~ll vary acco~ding to students. . . they have made . 1) ''Constmctive Activities- the severity of the actio~. , , substantial contributions to the Designed for pleges to get to 1 ) ' ' C o n s t r u c t 1 .v e 1 campus community.\ know one another and the Activitles-Co~gratulat.I?ns. Much to their credit, the of- members, or to accomplish a 2) Embar:rassmg ActiVItl~s- ficers of ZBT have been very necessary project. (e.g. trips to Stro~g reprunand and warnmg, cooperative throughout the athletic events, softball and r~qmr.ement. to ceas~. Con- process. They concluded other games, social with tint~ation ~Ill. r~sult m ~ore themselves· that their pledge another f11aternity-worority, . senous. d1sc1phna~y. ~ctlon. activities should be suspended. house clean-up, charity project These k~ds of act1v1t1es are When they will be resumed is on or off campus, dinners with best avmded. now up to the Colleg~ and the faculty.) 3) P?tentially Dangerous national chapter. 2) Embarrassing Activities- ~ctivita.es-Pledge class may be COLLEGE POLICY Source: Dean of Students Office Hazing is defined in New York State law as \any action which recklessly or intentionally endangers the physical or mental health of a student for the purpose of affiliation With any organization.'' The American Heritage Dictionary defines hazing as follows: \to persecute or harass with meaningless, difficult or humiliating tasks.\ The word · derives from the old French Examples include: walking . muned1ately dissolv.e~ .and !10 around campus or city carrying furt~er pledge ~ctlvitles, m~ a sign with a ridiculoU$ slogan, eluding ple~ge dmners . at the shaved heads, singing lewd ho.u.se! will be allowed. songs wearing weird clothing Imttatwn may be postponed (or n~ne at all). indefinitely. .National . a~d 3) Potentially Dangerous alwnni .will b~ mfotm~d. Social Activities Which Could Lead to probation waH be Imposed. Mental or Physical Injury- Organization will;be require~ to Examples. include: kidnapping, co~plete a hazmg edu~B:t~on keeping pledges up for an ex- proJect before pledge activities tended time period, in- can resume. Note: The ~~llege terrogating pledges under ~a~ .also ta~e addttlonal bright lights for a period of disCiplmary action. time, building up pledge ex- 4). D~ngerou~ Activities- pectations andthen letting them Immed.u~te wtthdrawal of down abruptly, drinking games, recogmhon and .. campus forcing pledges to engage in h o u s i n g p r i v 11 e g e s . AAC Subcouncil Endorses New Curriculum By JOY RUNYON The issue of revising Union's · curriculum has been alive since last spring term. The SulJ.. council on the Curriculum- . consisting of Professors Michael Rudko, Christina . Sorum, Donald Thurston, William Zwicker, and student Steve Moss-has been discussing the alternatives ·to the present Liberal Learning Program. They have recently · drawn up a proposal for a new General Education Program which Would replace the current · Liberal Learning Program. Currently available at the circulation desk in the library, and of importance to all Union • students, is the Subcouncil's · memorandum on \Issues and • Goals for General Education.\ This memorandum enumerates : the problems in each specific area of the Liberal Learning · curriculum as it stands and how these problems might be · corrected. By reading some · statistics given in this memorandum, it becomes . apparent that many students are not going through the Liberal Learning Program in a constructive way, with an eye towards becoming solidly schooled in all the aspects of- . fered by the College. For example, \71 percent of the engineering majors took no literature course in which writing was a significant graded element.\ Another concern stated in the memorandum is that students aren't getting the proper supervision: \It is clear that faculty, .students, and the ad- ministration must all play a role in the maintenance of the requirement. We are con- sidering several different systems of ·· supervision and would especially appreciate faculty and student suggestions in this important area.\ When discussing the basis for a new curriculum, the Sub- committee questioned whether the new pr«;>gram ~hould be a core program (a set of courses mandatory for every student) or a distribution program (students choosing from a pool of courses to satisfy specific requirements). The decision was for the distribution format because \potential for disen- chantment can be reduced by allowing an element·of choice to each student in the designing of his~her curriculum while providing guidelines that en- sure a sound general education.'' In addition to this memorandum, the Subcouncil Spanish playwright Federico Garcia Lorca's most famous play, ''The House of Bernarda Alba,\ will be staged at Union Feb. 27 and 28, and March 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. The play will be performed in the Nott Memorial Theater. Curtain time is 8 p.m.; tickets are $2. One of the greatest of con· temporary Spanish tragedies, \Bernarda Alba\ has been staged in translation in almost every language and country in the world. Called \one of the most realistic and lyric of the contemporary stage,\ the play is the tle of a stern matriarch (Bernarda) obsessed with family honor. Widowed as the Organization will be suspended for an indefinite period. National will be informed and will likely suspend the group's charter. At the discretion of national, alumni and the Colleget the organization may be alloWed to re-colonize after a period of time. Individuals \'~ • ... ,, ·~\ .... \\ .... to.,~\'~.-.. c...~ . . has generated a \Preliminary Outline for a General Education Program,\ also available at the library circlllation desk. While the preliminary out- line is by no means the final version of the general education program, it is a clear indication of the direction in which the Subcouncil wishes to go. In brief, the outline calls for 13 courses (including Freshmen . Preceptorial). Six of these courses would come from two clusters in Center I (humanities and social sciences). Each cluster consists of three courses based on one historical period;· these three courses would be in the period's literature, the period's history, and the period's civ.ilization. The alternative to two of these clusters would be to take only one of the historical clusters and a second cluster in non- Western civilization, fine arts, or a foreign language. Also required in Center I would be a course in quantitative and methodological social sciences. Five courses from Center IT (natural sciences and engineering) would be required. These would consist of two courses in natural sciences, two CO!lfses in quantitative and abstract reasoning, and one course in technology. The thirteenth course would be what the outline calls a \version of the present Fresh- man Preceptorial.\ The Sub- committee is looking into the possibility that the present Preceptorial could be revised slightly in order to make its purpose clearer. This plan, if implemented, would have a sort of \Grand- father Clause\; that is, it would not affect those students who entered Union before the change in curriculum . Steve Moss estimated that the new program, once agreed upon, would probably be im- plemented for the 1987-88 academic year and following. This period before activation would give the professors time to design courses specifically for the general education program. This time would also be used to re-examine the validity of the courses that are now being counted as Liberal Learning credits to see if they should be elibible for credit in the general education program. According to Steve Moss, the Subcommittee bas received no student input at all on this issue. It is hoped that students will take note of the preliminary outline and let the Sub- committee know how students feel about it. play opens, she announces to her five daughters that they will enter a traditional eight-year period of cloistered mourning. Though each of the daughters desires love and affection, all but one obeys the will of the mother. The resulting drama winds toward a tragic climax that is unrelenting in its severity and terror. The drama is directed by Prof. Barry K. Smith, with set design by Prof. Charles N. Steckler and lighting by Steve Boone. The presentation is sponsored by the Department of the Arts. For ticket information, contact the box office at 37o- 6153. directly responsible for the activity may be subject to College disciplinary action (which could include dismissal frotn the College) and-or criminal action. Any questions should be addressed to the Dean of Students' Office. 1> ... '.' '\· ·, \.t.. I'

.I r CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 Gel .. Tim·e Postponement Advocated Rick Suggests Faculty Sympathy Continued ~rom page 1 and made a similiar but in· dependent informal proposal. Since there is \no urgency in· the implementation of Gel- Time,\ Bick said, \why not wait until after the completion of the Student Center and Alumni Gym?\ Bick adds that the suggestion will be con· sidered at the next AAC meeting as will the Forum's official request. The faculty vote on Gel-Time will probably not be held until April2 at the earliest, according to Hick. The AAC will hear the new proposals by that time but any action will probably not occur until after the faculty vote. When asked for his prediction, Bick said that he expects a close vote that could go either way. He claims that the students can make a dif- ference if they make an effort to present a responsible opinion. Bick suggests that students should write down reasons for their opposition or support and hand the note to their teacher. \It's easy to talk and then forget,\ he said, \but if it's in writing, the teacher can bring it to the meeting and present a legitimate reason.\ He suggests another student poll as well, now that the student body is better informed. Kathy Keaveny, Forum member, stresses student in· volvement as well. \The faculty are concerned about the effect on students and will be in· fluenced by our opinion,\ she said. \It would help if individual students went to their teachers and showed genuine concern and responsible reasons for objection.\ If the faculty ap- proves the plan, Gel-Time would begin a two-year trial period in the fall of 1986 unless the postponement proposal is accepted. OJ \0 0 +- !... Ill :::l +- (/') >- .0 0 .... 0 .c: Q. Vice President for Administration of the Stwdent Forum, com- mentson N·ew Curriculum Proposal. Skel:lar Undergoes Renovations Facilities Expanded By DAVID MARIN In a recent interview, Director of Food Services Jan Gray outlined some of the changes occurring within the food service facilities, most notably the Skellar. Over the past two weeks the Rathskellar has been intermittently closed for renovations that Gray sees as an enhancement in the services available to students. Q) \0 0 .... !... Ill :::l .,_ V) >- _Q 0 +-- 0 .1: Q. Director of Food Services, Gray. The actual additions to the Skellar's range of equipment include a Belgian Waffle maker, a chicken roaster (designed for deep frying with less greast absorption), tran- sfer of the pizza ovens to the SkellaJ:\ a deli case, bagel toaster, and the addition of more snack items. In addition there will be the introduction of grocery-type foods for students to take home. Gray says that she hopes the Skellar will be something that even off-campus students can use .. During spring term Gray plans to open the Skellar for breakfast. There is even the possibility of adding a fresh orange juice machine. At present the Skellar's hours are 12 to midnight except for Friday and Saturday when it is open until 2 a.m. The hours will be the same in the spring with the addition of the breakfast hours. At the present, the Skellar is offering a Saturday brunch beginning at noon, with bagels and cream cheese among other offerings. Commenting on the changes she has introduced to the Skellar, Gray said, \I wanted to have the ability to have more. better, and varied food available\ in an effort to keep interest in the Skellar alive despite the absence of beer. She insists that the Skellar is still a good place to frequent. Gray added that the changes are largely a response to \reqeuest we had repeatedly in the past.\ College Takes Strong Stance on Hazing Details of Policy Outlined Continued from page 1 word \baser\ which means to strenuous physical exercise for However, when the national irritate or annoy. It also has an extended period .... chapter of ZBT meets in March roots in the English word 4) Dangerous Activities-All in New York City, it will decide \haze\ which means a vague or of the above ~and other whether any further confused state of mind. examples no~ cited) w~en disciplinary action should be When we think about pledge CO!fl~med wtth exces~rv:e taken. activities as they relate to af- drmkmg, wheth~r _or not t.t IS While Massa believes that filiation with Greek forced. Any act1v1ty reqmred action :r;nust be taken against organizations, four distinctions (?ye~ly o~ covertly). f?r. af- any fraternity that hazes, he clearly emerge, with the first fihatwn whtch results m InJUry says that ''The college being \non-hazing\ and the or death. recognizes that the individuals remaining three being varying T~e C?llege's respon~e to of ZBT are mature, responsible degrees of hazing. hazmg w~ll vary acco!ding to students. . . they have made 1) \Constructive Activities- the severity of the action. substantial contributions to the Designed for pleges to get to 1 ) ' ' C o n s t r u c t i v e ' ' campus community.\ know one another and the Activities-Co~gratul~t.i?ns! Much to their credit, the of- members, or to accomplish a 2) Embar.rassmg ActiVIti~s- ficers of ZBT have been very necessary p1oject. (e.g. trips to Strong reprunand and warnmg, cooperative throughout the athletic events, softball and r.equir.ement. to ceas~. Con- process. They concluded other games, social with tm~at10n ~Ill. r~sult m II?-ore themselves that their pledge another fraternity-worority, senous . disciplina~y. ~chon. activities should be suspended. house clean-up, charity project These k~ds of actiVIties are When they will be resumed is on or off campus, dinners with best avOided. now up to the College and the faculty.) 3) . P?tentially Dangerous national chapter. 2) EmbaiTassing Activities- ~ctlvit~es-Ple~ge class may be Examples include: walking unmed1ately dissolv.e~ .and !lo around campus or city carrying furt~er pledge ~ctlVlties, m- a sign with a ridiculous slogan, cludmg ple~ge dmners at the shaved heads, singing lewd ho.u.se! w11l be allowed. songs wearing weird clothing ImtlatiOn may be postponed (or n~ne at all). indefi~it~ly. . National a~d COLLEGE POLICY Source: Dean of Students Office Hazing is defined in New York State law as \any action which recklessly or intentionally endangers the physical or mental health of a student for the purpose of affiliation with any organization.\ The American Heritage Dictionary defines hazing as follows: \to persecute or harass with meaningless, difficult or humiliating tasks.\ The word derives from the old French \\''\~ ................ ~ .......... , ....... ~· ,.~ . .., .. 3) Potentially Dangerous alumnt will be mfermed. Social Activities Which Could Lead to probation will be imposed. Mental or Physical Injury- Organization will.be require~ to Examples include: kidnapping, · c01~plete a hazmg edu~~t~on keeping pledges up for an ex- proJect before pledge activities tended time period, in- can resume. Note: The ~~llege terrogating pledges under ~a~ .also ta~e additional bright lights for a period of diSCiplmary action. . . time, buildiflg up pledge ex- 4) D~ngerou~. AchVIties- pectations and then letting them Immed.1~te Withdrawal of down abruptly, drinking games, recog~ttlon an~ . campus forcing pledges to engage in h o u s 1 n g P n v Il e g e s . ~ I> .. • • • .. ~ • ~ .. • • • • ' - ._ • < AAC Subcouncil Endorses New Curriculum By JOY RUNYON The issue of revising Union's curriculum has been alive since last spring term. The Sub- council on the Curriculum- consisting of Professors Michael Rudko, Christina Sorum, Donald Thurston, William Zwicker, and student Steve Moss-has been discussing the alternatives to the present Liberal Learning Program. They have recently dJ:\awn up a proposal for a new General Education Program which would replace the current Liberal Learning Program. Currently available at the circulation desk in the library, and of importance to all Union students, is the Subcouncil's memorandum on \Issues and Goals for General Education.\ This memorandum enumerates the problems in each specific area of the Liberal Learning curriculum as it stands and how these problems might be corrected. By reading some statistics given in this memorandum, it becomes apparent that many students are not going through the Liberal Learning Program in a constructive way, with an eye towards becoming solidly schooled in aU the aspects of- fered by the College. For example, \71 percent of the engineering majors took no literature course in which writing was a significant graded element.\ Another concern stated in the memorandum is that students aren't getting the proper supervision: \It is clear that faculty, students, and the ad- ministration must all play a role in the maintenance of the requirement. We are con- sidering several different systems of supervision and would especially appreciate faculty and student suggestions in this important area.\ When discussing the basis for a new curriculum, the Sub- committee questioned whether the new program should be a core program (a set of courses mandatory for every student) or a distribution program (students choosing from a pool of courses to satisfy specific requirements). The decision was for the distribution format because \potential for disen· chantment can be reduced by allowing an element of choice to each student in the designing of hiseher curriculum while providing guidelines that en- sure a sound general education.'' In addition to this memorandum, the Subcouncil has generated a \Preliminary Outline for a General Education Program,\ also available at the library circulation desk. While the preliminary out- line is by no means the final version of the general education program, it is a clear indication of the direction in which the Subcouncil wishes to go. In brief, the outline calls for 13 courses (including Jt,reshmen · -Preceptorial). Six of these courses would come from two clusters in Center I (humanities and social sciences). Each cluster consists of three ceurses based on one historical period; these three courses would be in the period's literature, the period's history, and the period's civilization. The alternative to two of t:hese clusters would be to take only one of the historical clusters and a second cluster in non- Western civilization, fine arts, or a foreign language. Also required in Center I would be a course in quantitative and methodological social sciences. Five courses from Center II (natural sciences and engineering) would be required. These would consist of two courses in natural sciences, two courses in quantitative and abstract reasoning, and one course in technology. The thirteenth course would be what the outline calls a \version of the present Fresh- man Preceptorial.'' The Sub- committee is looking into the possibility that the present Preceptorial could be revised slightly in order to make its purpose clearer. This plan, if implemented, would have a sort of \Grand- father Clause\; that is, it would not affect those students who entered Union before the change in curriculum. Steve Moss estimated that the new program, once agreed upon, would probably be im- plemented for the 1987-88 academic year and following. This period before activation would give the professors time to design courses specifically for the general education program. This time would also be used to re-examine the validity of the courses that are now being counted as Liberal Learning credits to see if they should be elibible for credit in the general education program. According to Steve Moss, the Subcommittee has received no student input at all on this issue. It is hoped that students will take note of the preliminary outline and let the Sub- committee know how students feel about it. Famed Spanish Play at Nott Spanish playwright Federico Garcia Lorca's most famous play, ''The House of Bernarda Alba,\ will be staged at Union Feb. 27 and 28, and March 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. The play will be performed in the Nott Memorial Theater. Curtain time is 8 p.m.; tickets are $2. One of the greatest of con- temporary Spanish tragedies, \Bemarda Alba\ has been staged in translation in almost every language and country in the world. Called \one of the most realistic and lyric of the contemporary stage,\ the play is the tle of a stern matriarch (Bernarda) obsessed with family honor. Widowed as the Organization will be suspended for an indefinite period. National will be informed and will likely suspend the group's charter. At the discretion of national, alumni and the College, the organization may be allowed to re-colonize after a period of time. Individuals play opens, she announces to her five daughters that they will enter a traditional eight-year period of cloistered mourning. Though each of the daughters desires love and affection, all but one obeys the will of the mother. The resulting drama winds toward a tragic climax that is unrelenting in its severity and terror. The drama is directed by Prof. Barry K. Smith, with set design by Prof. Charles N. Steckler and lighting by Steve Boone. The presentation is sponsored by the Department of the Arts. For ticket information, contact the box office at 370- 6153. directly responsible for the activity may be subject to College disciplinary action (which could include dismissal from the College) and-or criminal action. Any questions should be addressed to the Dean of Students' Office.

Page .f. CONCORDIENS/S, February 27, 1-986 . ··- . . The 1985 Federal Income Tax fonns are out and the April15 deadline is fast approaehin_g. In response to fteqtlent!y aSked tax questio!JS, the Financial Aid Offil!e ba~ put together a shOrt li$tof tax survival tips. 1) Doihavetofile? . - No, unl~s your gross income was over $3400 (including aU earned in· cCIIIle); or you had federal.tax withheld al}d' are entitled to a refund; or you can be ~laimedas a dependent on your parents' tax 1,1eturn and you had $1040 or more ii1income from interest or dividends. · 2) Do I have to include my College-Work-study money in figuring ·my taxable income? ~- . . , Yes. College Work Study (CWS) money is earned income, and all earned income is taxable even if notax was withheld. 3) Will I owe Social Security (FICA) taxes on my CWS money? No, student employees on campus are exempt fromS()cial Security' taxes on their earnings. · · Why can't the clock be fixed? 4) When do I have to file by? April15., 1986 for the 1985 tax year. • 5) If I file a tax form can my parents still claim me as atax exemption? • Off the Wire e Off the ·Wire e Off the Wire Off the Wire • Off the Wire e Off the Wire • Yes, if you were a full-time student and they provided more than bali: of !Our support for 1985. 6) If I file a Federal tax return do I have to file a tax return for my home state? · Tedisco Honors Cavo6 Assemblyman James N. Tedisco (R-c, Schenectady) announced today that he will · introduce a resolution honoring . a Union College student for his · contribution to the space shuttle program. \This resolution honors S. Richard Cavoli, a Union College student who designed an ex- . peri1nent which was placed aboard the fateful flight of the Challenge~,\ said Tedisco. Cavoli will joill Tedisco as the assemblyman presents the resolution to the full session of the state assembly on Monday, Feb. 24 at 2 p.m. It was hoped that CavQli's experiment would lead to the development of sensitive X-ray film to benefit diagnostic medicine and astrophysical research by growing lead iodide crystals in a- weightless en- vironment, the assemblyman noted. \Mr. Cavoli is an outstanding young man with the promise of scientific excellence,••· said Tedisco. \His experiment symbolized the same per- severance and 'Spirit of Diseovery ' of our seven American heroes who perished a~ard the Challenger, · •'rt is the hope of residents of tl)is state that Mr. Cavolrs fine example will be followed by young minds all across the nation,\ Tedisco .added. Dudden Receives Ford Fellowship Assistant Professor of History Faye Dudden has received an American Council of Learned Societies-Ford Foundation gr~nt for research on women wmkers and family culture in antebellum Boston. · The grant, which will run from September of 1986 through Juneof1987, will cover research and travel expenses for Prof. D11dden as she studies the relationship of women workers t() tile family economy from 1790 thr()ugh 1860. . According to Prof. Dudden, \fn the antebellum United States, few women worked for pa'Y. Those who did were mostly young single women working for a brief interval before marriage. First, I will examiile how young women of that era confronted the decision to go to work. Second, I hope to learn the impact of work exper,ience upon their own conduct and upon family relationships and family culture. I will examine how family patterns of power, authority and sentiment responded when a daughter became a wage-earner.'' For her work, Prof. Dudden will examine court records, sermons, labor union proceedings and the labor press, the ethnic press, the political record, ,community celebrations and benevolent organizations. These indirect methods will take the place of direct evidence, such as diaries, which are scarce among the class of women in which Prof. Dudden is interested. Her first book, Serving Women: Household Service in . Nineteenth . Centuu America,, used similar sources. Prof. Dudden has already received a MacArthur Assistant Professorship from Union for No, unless you have earned over the minimum. income limit or .you had state taxes withheld and are due a refund. 7) Where can I get tax forms? Federal and New York State tax£oni)S are available at Public Libraries and U.S. Post Offices. · · We hope this information helps clear up some of the confu11ion about filing tax forms. Ifyou have other more technical questions call the IRS at 1-8011-424-1040 and someone there should be able to answer your questions. the initial phases of her current ·. students at your home secon- project. dary school. Ad · · If you are interested in · missions Office visiting with students and-or ·a Se k Amb d member of your school's e S . . • • 3SSa OfS gUidance staff as a Union The Admissions Office is Ambassador, there will be an again seeking students who information session Monday, would be interested in returning March 3 at 4:30 p.m. in Hale to their high schools over spring House lower lounge. If you are break to help spread the good unable to attend the meeting, word about Union. please stop by the Admissions During the 1984 December · Office and speak with a break, close to 200 students member of the Admissions Staff returned to their schools. While about the ·program and high school spring vacations arrangements for your visit. may vary, and many Union Studentswho,areinterested in students head south in search of being an Ambassador, but have warmer climates, for those of a conflict with a visit over this you returning home, if your · break are also encouraged , to , experience at Union has been a . attend the meeting to sign up good one, you may want to and receive further information share your thoughts with about visits next fall. UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS Show us your college IDs between 2 pm . 5 pm and receive Sirloin Steak Dinner $5.9 5 Spaghetti and Meatballs · $2.9 5 parties of 4 or more will receive a FREE Pitcher of Coca-Cola SUNDAY EVENING MEXICAN NIGHT featuring : · Nachoes loaded Nadtoes, Triple loaded Nachoes, Mexican salads, and Mexican Slcins HAI.f PRICE. WTH YOUR IDsl MtiNHF\1httN ~~~IH4~~~ 605 Uni,on Street - 374-5930 ]

. ' CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 PageS .. Course -Load Reduction Issues Ce~ntlnuedfrom page 2 to explore different possibilities. A last-term senior who wants to get into an ·in· troductory sociology class does not have as compelling a need as a freshman or sophomore who says, \I wonder if I'd be interested in this field.\ We do have different patter.ns of student enrollinent. What must be very annoying is to be closed out twice for the same coQ.l'se. some perversity, and suddenly they decided, we're going to be unhappy and make the ad- ministration miserable. But the single event that has happened in their life has nothing, really, to do with the College. It's going to take a while for new social patterns to be learned. That single event has exacerbated whatever inconvenience and discomfort resUlts from Car- \I think that prefe.rence for admission into intro classes should go ~o fresh• men, then sophomores, and on up.'' That's something I tllink we ought to address and we can address with simple measures. General Discontent JR: Getting even more general, how do you feel about the general discontent at the College this term? It's no secret that most of it is caused by the drinking age. Do you think it's going to get better? Do you thinkthat students really have a reason for their unhappiness? TD: I think that's spilling over into all sorts of other things. It has caused a major disruption in the social life of students and it's like kicking the cat when something goes wrong. I think it's interesting that students weren't so unhappy during Fall term, and we didn't have Carnegie, we didn't have the gym, and people were closed · out · of classes Fall:term; too. I don'tthink that· students are unhappy out of -D'Andrea negie being closed, the gym being closed, the terrible Schenectady weather in the last month, and .the normal frustration of being closed out of class. It's elevated all these · things-to some extent, out of proportion, I wonld think. JR: ls there anything I haven't mentioned that you'd like to comment on? TD: I guess I'm a little sur- prised at what I think is the irrationality of some of the complaints. There is in- formation available about class sizes. If one is confused about the nature of the student-faculty · ratio, there are ways to discover that. If one is unhappy ' about the library., one has to get some certain facts about the condition of the library at Union College. I guess I'm a little disappointed that the vigor of the reaction was not ac• . companied by some basic research· into rthe true facts of the ·situation. · Forum Appeals to Faculty The Student Forum is currently engaged in a twofold effort to postpone Gel-Time. Monday night, \a sense of the Forum\ was taken in favor of recommending to the AAC that they reconsider their approval of Gel-Time. A reversal on their part would postpone a vote from the faculty. The Forum members are simultaneously sending letters to each of the faculty members in a lobby- type effort. Tbl:! approach of the Forum is . taking is informing the f~culty of the student frustration and . displacement with the numerous changes occurring on campus .. The Forum maintains that change in the schedule · would just add to the problem, and perhaps compound it with unforseen cQmplications. No judgement on the merits of the proposal is being made. f'<-0'-0'>~~..q...q...q...q.~..q.·q...q...q.~..q.~ l The Idealist l § § § §. ~ Because there comes a ~ § time when your education ~ § should be more than iust § ~ preparing for finals. ~ ~ § § . § ~ ·Look For It. l § § ~~~~..q.~~~~~~~~~~~~~' r • The Winner of The Tri-Delta Pledges' 50-50 Raffle for Women's Scholarship Is Cathy Steinbeck. Congratulations! International Relations Club Participates in Model United Nations By J:AN BARAN , , Economic and Financial Committee, the Social, On Thursday, February 20, a Humanitarian and Cultural team of fourteen Union students . Committee, and others. Before traveled to the Boston Marriott · the various committees arrived at Copley Place to represent the · at any solutions, delegates from country of Yemen in a . many regions of the world first simulation of the United presented their positions. It was Nations. Sponsored by Harvard clear from these positions that a University, this mock United solution to any of the world's Nations involved twenty-tnree problems would not come hours of meetings, endless easily. caucusing, and the writing of After these positions were detailed solutions to ·problems presented, serious caucusing diverse as the international then followed. Caucusing, or debt crisis to a definition of informal discussions about the racism. proper course of-action to take, The first two and a half days were usually done in regional were spent in committee blocs. After hours of caucusing, sessions where much of the real some solutions were gradually debating and problem solving determined. The solutions were occurrea. Union was presented in the form of represented on many com~ working .papers or resolutions. mittees, including the Special Even though many viewpoints Political Committee, the had been included in these 'fJ. '\~>\' ,'~'t'··-.·' ~, • ~ > 'M\ (oz( solutions, there were still countries that did not agree with. the prqposed solutions. Usually, amendments were included to accomodate these dissenting viewpoints. Then, a vote was usually taken. For · most committees, it took two days of speeches and caucusing to reach the voting stage. If the committee approved the resolution, it was sent to the General Assembly of the United Nations which took place on Sunday. The Assembly at Harvard included all the delegates from the various committees of the United Nations. Union also was represented at the Mideast Summit that was held at the Harvard Model United Nations. This summit was covered by the Boston Continued on page 6 ' . •' ~~ ~~ung. _ ~~pu~Hca~s ~~, Attend Convention . . · .. -- Tomorrow evening. at 6:00 p.m. the New York State Federation of Young Republican Clubs will hold its winter 1986 convention at the Holiday· Inn at 1614 Central Avenue, in Colonie. Delegates representing the 15 YR clubs throughout New York State will spend the . weekend deb~ting and passing re'solutions, attendin.g workshops on club organization and campaign management, as well as socializing at the hospitality suites. Among the 15 clubs who will be attending will be the Union College YR CLub. The Union YRs will send a delegation of eight delegates and alternates, including Brian Kelly, who.is both the Union and NYS YR president; Paul Schop, John Morgan, Jay Grossman, and four other prominent Union undergraduates. Several important Republican officials have in- dicated that they will attend. Among them are George Scaringe, the Albany County Republican Chairman, and Assemblyman James Tedisco (R-8chenectady). ; .. ' The keynote speak.er at Saturday's dinner wffi be Ulster County District Attorney Michael Kavanagh, who is an outspoken critic of Governor Cuomo, and who has received a great deal of. publicity for his criticism of Cuomo's grant of clemency to convicted first degree murderer Gary McGivern. That grant came last December 31. Kavanagh is considered at this point to be a potential Republican guber- natorial nominee to run against Cuomo this fall. · Tedisco Endorses B-ig--Brothers/Sisters Legislation Assemblyman JJLrp.es N. Tedisco (R-C, Schenectady) and Senator Ralph Marino (R- Oyster Bay) have introduced legislation which would allow Big Brothers-Big Sisters orga~ons to have access to criminal records during the screening of volunteers. The announcement came today at an Albany news con· ference attended by executive directors of Big-Brothers-Big Sisters organizations throughout New York State. Tedisco said a plan to lobby for the bill has been developed in cooperation with the executive directors to urge the Cuomo administration and legislative leaders to enact the measure. \The leadership of Big Brothers-Big Sisters ap- proached me as concerned profession~ls with _ th~i~ . con- cerns and Ideas, and I mttiated legislation which will help ensure ·a safe and wholesome environment for the children,\ Tedisco said. Marino, who served for nine years as chairman -of the Se!late Crimes and Corrections Committee, is currently chairman of the Senate Program Committee. · The Senator said that Big Broth~r-Big Sisters has no way of knowing whether or not a volunteer has a history of child abuse- or mistreatment, despite the fact that the person may spend a great deal of time alone with a child. The lawmakers said there is a strong justification for eact- ment of this legislation. \First Big Brothers-Big Sisters organizations have always conducted extensive review of potential volunteers, but their · inquiries can't possibly be completed unless they have access to this fundamental information,\ they said. \Secondly the threat of lawsuits which could arise from potential instances of child abuse may force these wor- thwhile organizations out of business.'' Tedisco, ranking Republican member of the Assembly Committee on Children and Families, explained that existing laws allow authorized child care agencies, schools that use bus drivers, the state Division for Youth (DFY) and licesnsed day-care centers to screen prospective employees with the state Division of Criminal Justice Sercies (DGJS) and the Statewide Register of Child Abuse and Neglect. \These are important laws,\ Senator Marino said, \but they do not cover Big Brothers-Big Sisters.\ According to Assemblyman Tedisco, the bill would allow Big Brothers-Big Sisters to obtain conviction records, maintained by the DCJS for any volunteer, if one exists. The records requested must be used by an authorized representative of Big Brothers-Big Sisters for screening purposes only, will be . held confidentially and may not be distributed to any other party. In addition, he said the results of the search will be given both to the inquiring agency and the person whose records were sought. If the person does not have a record, the DCJS will inform the organization that no record exists. \We will press for the passage of this si~nificant legislation during ti,\' 1986 legislative session,\ M~rino and Tedisco said, \and we strongly urge interested organizations and individuals to lobby their state represen- tatives to support this measure.\

Jlage6 CON()ORDJENSIS,.F'ebruary 27,.1986 FEATURES H -c H ' H I c \ OH 1 TAP If you are a student who is currently benefiting from the New York State Tuition Assistance Program (TAP); or if you find yoursel.f in the annoying position of ''right above the cut-off point/' PLEASE read on. · There is a statewide effort currently in progress to convince our, State legislators that.a TAP increase is necessary. In 1974 when TAP was first instituted, it covered up to 60% of the average college tuition costs. Toda.y, due to inflation and rapidly increasing tuition costs, the maximum percentage of tuition covered ryasbeen lowered to 42%. As most of you probably know, NO increase was passed for the 1985-86 year. F~EDENETHYL ALCOHOL I Now is. the time to make our lawmakers aware that you, as students, depend on TAP ,to assist you in meeting college cost's. It ts vital that students' voices be· heard if our legislators are to p.Jace a TAP increase at the top of their priority list. Over the 'fXJSI 30 years . . . Take a few minutes to write a brief, per- sonalized letter to your own representatiVe. Contact the Financial Aid Office or the Student Forum if you need to determine his or her name and address. Union Social Life Has Seen Some Changes Or, write to the legislative leader~: By C. WILLIAM HUNTLEY \' . Editors Note: This Is an excerpt from Professor C. William Huntley's book entitled Thirty Years in the Life of a College. As Union approaches it bicentennial, it is natural that the thoughts of the many who have known and loved the College reach backward. In considering the past, many questions come to mind, and so often the answers are either lacking or at best fragmentary. What was life like on the campus in times gone by, and what did indeed happen to bring Union to its present shape and stature? At present, the decision to attend or not to attend. class is left largely to the student, though an instructor does bave the right to drop a student from a course with a failing grade if he feels that the student has been absent too many times. This does not happen often. But it was not very long ago that the College had a firm and explicit rule about regular class at- tendance. · What this meant was that every instructor called the roll each class meeting and sent in a daily report of those who were not in class. Posting of this information for each student in the dean's office took the full time of two undergraduate grants-in-aid. Today's students listen to a description of required chapel with an expression of mild disbelief, but it was indeed a real fact oflife at Union College going back to the early days. In 1948-49, . weekday college assemblies, as t'hey were called in the catalog, were held on four days a week. The catalog for that year goes on to state that there were services each Sunday morning under the direction of \the President, the Chaplain, and visiting preachers.\ In addition, there were a number of public lec- tures, forums, and concerts by leading authorities and artists on weekday evenings: Finally, there were occasional formal morning convocations, usually lasting an hour. On the lighter side, things happened from time to time that provided a welcome relief from the routine of study. Old stories of the College make occasional reference to one of the favorite college pranks which involved persuading one of the cows which normally grazed in the pasture to enter North or South and climb at least as far as the second story. Probably the real challenge came when someone had to entice the cow into walking back down the steos. Few if any students had telephones in their rooms, very different from today when it seems as if almost all students have their own phones. Each section of the dorm had a \pay\ phone in a conventional booth on the first floor. For incoming calls, this meant considerable shouting to men on the upper floors. The phones themselves were a never-ending challenge to the electrical engineers who sometimes found ways to make long-distance calls without having to deposit any money. They, also more than once figured a way to make the phnne disgorge whatever little money had accumulated in the box. The telephone company viewed all this with a con~ siderable lack of enthusiasm, and from time to time the phones were removed .. only to be replaced on the promise that the College would be more \stict\ in monitoring behavior, which of course it never really was. During ,the early years ()f this . . ...... Continued on. page 'i . In the Senate: The Honorable Warren Anderson and The Honorable Kenneth P. LaValle New Yor·k State Senate Albany, NY 12247 In the Assembly: The Honorable Stanley Fink and The Honorable Mark Alan Siegel New York State Assembly Albany, NY 12248 JE~~A~rse 2!!~~~glli~~~mefuat 1bis is the last of a sllort should be combed every so .often I have one of the few afros series of articles in regard to to keep it neat.) A girl Idid not around and other people aren't Black History Monti!. Never- know reached over and pulled always sensitive to my dif- theless, articles wU1 appear in her fingers through my hair. ferences and don't care to be. the Features section O«!· She laughed when I glared at These experiences make me casionally. AJso, I thank LeAta ~er. This would h~ve been rude want to wear a hat sometimes, Jackson, especially, for her If she had done this to someone to hide my afro, to avoid the time and effort in this matter. she knew; this would have been hurt feelings that come as a James Marshall Jr. very rude if she had done this to result of inconsideration. I also I have an afro. It's short and ·someone she didn't know, This get tired of the ignorance and curly. An afro is not exactly like was worse because I have .an . learn not to talk about my afro, thinner hair, most people with afro .. It's short and curly. An and tend to it, 'fix' it, in private. thinner, .straighter hair have afro_ IS not ex:_actly like thinner, What I say about my afro at come into contact with a few str~tghter haJr · Whe~ someone home, how I wear my afro at people with afros. They may satd reach ou~ an~ touch horne may not be appr~priate be curious as to what short, someone! I d~n t think they he.re. When I pa~ It m the coarse, tightly curled hair is rn~nt like this. , Most people mtddle or on the stde, when I like. Vflth afros don t run their wear it long or short, someone An example, if you please. fmgers t~oug~. their ha~ like W!th thinn~r, straighter hair One recent evening, I was pe?ple With .thi!Wer, straighter will look at It ru:td conclude, \All sitting in choir rehearsal. ~all'. They 'f~' 1~ once and leave afros must be like that.\ During a break,· 1 was pulling a 1t alone until It needs to be -It's really silly that 1 have· to 'fixed' again. worry what my hair looks like .-------T--~-r:I-.-- .. E--&\J- 1 -f-,- 1 -R--.-P-----~ This may seem to be a trifling all the time-for other people's example of a trifling ex- reasons. But as long as there perience. But this girl's action are people like this girl in the was a sign of her in- above example, I suppose that I VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECT.~OY, NEW y.QRK {518) ·370· 3257 consideration and ig~orance should be very co~ci!ltiS that I concerning me, and my afro. have an afro. It's snort and Life is littered . with trifling curly; An afro is not exactly like experiences s11cb as this one thinner, straighter hair. Model United Nations Panhallenic Cabaret Contest Continued from page 5 · March 1s18:00 P.M. Guest Performances by Faculty& Administration Globe because actual citizens from several Mideast countries represented their nations at this · Mideast swnmit and .in the various general assembly students left Boston for Schenectady. The summit at- tempted to solve the question of the Palestinians, but the session ended with the Israeli delegate refusing to compFornise. · . . Old Chapel Tickets $1.50 In the Box Office All Proceeds go to the Rape Crisis Center conunittees. In the summit, however. these Mideast delegates were very intimidating because they were actual citizens of the countries they represented. Thus; they knew much more about their countries' positions. Union was represented by Ted Dimmick, '86,, Union's ·Inter- national Relations Club president and Monique Harrison, '88. This summit started on Thursday night and ended just before the Union All in all, the United Nations simulation taught the im- portance of .compromise and negotiation as well as fine speaking. It also enabled fourteen Union students a great chance to explore. the city of Boston. The_ trip to Boston to attend this Harvard U.N. was sponsored by the International Relations Club at Union. The next event sponsored by this club is a chance to visit washington,· DC next spring term.

CONCORDIJ!NSJS, 'February 27, 1986 Page7 'Old' Social Life .at Union Continued frQm page 6 account, each fall on the night before the opening home football game, the freshman class staged a traditional pajama parade. In a sense it was promoted by the sophomores. on the questionable hypothesis that such events generated college spirit and class solidarity. of the undergrpduate was so different from what takes place today that the current students listen to descriptions of it with mild disbelief, this .being tempered only by their having seen The Way We Were. In essence, social life was organized around three or four major weekends a year and for the reamining weekends, the men who had both the necessary funds and a method of transportation traveled to Slddmore or Bennington. FEATURES Usually it began. with a bonfire on Dailey Field, the freshmen having spent the afternoon rounding ~P orange crates and other combustibles. Then, clad in . pajamas, the group moved downtown, in- terrupting traffic as they went. psually the rival football squad was,serenaQ.ed in front ofthe old Van Currer Hotel, where Visiting teaiilS often stayed, after which the parade moved up State Street, and this is when the bad news began. Often the procession went through Proctor's Arcade, at least once it stopped the show at the Plaza Theatre by marching down the aisle and across the stage, and sometimes the parade ended up \crashing\ a dance at the high school on Nott Terrace on the way home. Occasionally minor damage was done to passing cars,. and more than once spectators were jostled. The next morning brought angry calls from people Who were upset or inconvenienced, and usually there was a letter or two in the Gazette about \spoiled college kids,, but in general the whole affair was a fairly in· nocuous one and belonged in the category of \a goo9 time was had by all.\ An account published in a November issue of the Con- cordy tells many of the details of a \Prom\ weekend. Frightening buttrue ... Firenze's finest. ' ~U:.?G~::o!~ Italy May Be Fu.n, B\lt It's No Schenectady By A. J, EASTERBROOK Tonight is the big night. For the last few days Union ·has been the scene of many and varied plots. Tuxedos and tails have been got out of mothballs, shoes have been shined and ties pressed. Not only has it been on the Campus that all this activity has taken place. Local hilir· dressers and flowersellers must have noticed a considerable drain on their rea«:ty cash. By ten o~c1ock this evening a gayer, though poorer, student body will assemble in the Alwnni gym- nasium; for tonight is Prom night, the first Prom of the season. By ADAM EMERSON and ROBBLEIFER For alrthose with complaints concernjng present Union conditions, take a moment while we reflect upon a term abroad that was not a piece of cake. For that matter, it wasn't a bowl of pasta either. Perhaps· the most painful sacrifice to be made in going to Italy is leaving the good old home cooking of West and Hale. How long could you go in Italy without a rice crispie treat? Tuna noodle casserole with· drawal can often set in without warning. Don't be fooled by · · · In the years following the return of the veterans to the campus, interest in the success of the football team was at a high level. The Concordy ran front-page stories about each coming game; there were pep rallies and bonfires. It would Schlafly to Spe~k '?n <;ampus By JEFF MILLER E.R.A., a member of the Dlinois . seem that the three games of ~most importance each fall were those~ with Williams, Hailton, and RPI. During many of the years which are described in the present account, the social life UIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIUIIUllllllllllliiiUIIIIIIII Next week: Issue of the Issue: Are Union· Co11ege Library Facilities adequate? IIIUU~IIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIWIIIIlllllllllllm . Phyllis Schlafly, attorney, journalist, radio Commentator, and mother, will speak here at Union on Tuesday, March 4, at 8:00 P~M. in the Memorial Chapel. Schlafly is well known for her opposition to the Equal Rights Amendment, and has somehow managed to obtain a reputation for being anti- women. Schafly received her B.A. from Washington University in St. Louis in 1944, her M.A. from Harvard in 1945, and a law degree from Washington University in 1978. In addition to those degrees, she has received honors from Phi Beta Kappa, Pi Sigma Alpha, The Woman of Achivement from the St. Louis Globe:-Democrat . .and the Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Although best known for her leadership of the conservative pro-family movement, Schlafly focused her education on in· ternational affairs and politics. She was chairwoman of Stop Commissiofl on the Status of Women and has testified before many House and Senate committees. Her political ac· tivities have included being a delegate to five Republican National Conventions, President of the Illinois Federation of Republican Women, First Vice-President of the National Federation of Republican Women and many other posts. In addition to all of these activities, Schlafly has also found the time to write a number of books, including Strike fr6m Space, Kissblger on the Couch, and The Power of the Positive Woman. Schlafly will center her speech on the changing roles of men and women in today's society, but will also address such issues as the Strategic Defense Initiative, and right wing politics. She is speaking this Tuesday, and tickets are free. It promises to be an in- teresting and controversial evening. .R\\o=ocococo=oocr.....oc.cr~~~~..,o-.N\\~..O\'J~..r. § Extra Money? /. ., 1 The Rathsk~llar is 6~ looking for responsible stud.ents to work. There are several openings for this term. Also, apply early for next term! Various Shifts Availa.bl...-e- STOP IN!! instinct. You truly need your casserole. A difficult ad• justment to living in Italy is leaving the fine cuisine we so often take for granted. How often could we have home made pasta and fresh Italian bread (PB and Jon Wonder anytime)? Just because they make moz- zarella fresh daily they think it's as good as prepackaged Polly.Q. And Mama Gina thinks she can compare with the fine, delicately spiced ziti of West. Don't be a stranger to Italy's food. problems. A good plate of pasta in Italy is as hard to find as a matzoh ball. You would probably think because they don't eat well, Italians ar.e culturally oriented. Just be happy to be in the cultural· hot spot of the world. To Italians, culture is some guy sculpting a kid, giving him a sling, and calling him David. Go' figure. Who needs Michelangelo, Da Vinci, or Boticello When we have Chester and The Idol right .here? We have to laugh. Why read Dante when the U.S. boasts literacy genius like Danielle Steele? Ah, the ignorance of some people. · There is not a doubt that Florence is beautiful. The ar- chitectural beauty of this city is equalled only by Schenectady's stockade. However, despite its astounding beauty, Florence does have its drawbacks. It's not the safest city in which to be a pedestrian. While there, one should attempt to avoid streets and roads (sidewalks also if possible). If you think the mothers in Cedarhurst can't drive, try avoiding an Italian signora on a moped. And if you think you're any safer on the bus, make other travel arrangements. Little old Italian ladies may seem feeble but they'll hit you with a hipcheck that'll send Gretzky flying. Do yourself a favor, give up your seat and stay away from exit doors at all costs. Of course, one can't have traffic without smog. Florence makes G.E. look like the number one supporter of the Environmental Protection Agency. For excercise, you're better off chain smoking than running a couple of miles every day. If we haven't given reason enough to stay in Schenectady for ten weeks, consider airfare and the hardships you will experience traveling through similar European countries just to get to Italy. PUT YOUR DEGREE TO WORK WITH THE PEACE CORPS We are looking for a few good people with the following Majors: ENGINNER.ING MATH/ SCIENCE Engineers are in demand in· th·e developing countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America • 1he Peace Corps:offers offers experience to civil, mechanical, environmental, mining and metrallurgical engineers. Math and Science majors are in great demand as teachers. Recruiter Katherine Crowley, a returned Peace Corps volunteer who served in Micronesia, will be on campus to conduct interviews on March 12, from 9:00 to 4:00 P.M. Call the Career Development Center at 518 370- 6176 for more information.

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, February i7, 1986 .. FEATURES As The World Turns ~IT UP, BUDGET, $IT! RoLL OVER, BUDGET! BuPG..ET, ~P~K! C'MoN, &PEAk! o!<;\Y, BIJPG.Ei, f\AY PEAP! GooD BoY! By LEE ANN SCHMIDT O-kay, after managing to cram 10 tol)s of luggage into \Bill the Honda,'' and a stop at Mickey D's, we were on our way to Boston. Unfortunately, Schenectady has stoplights, and the rental car behind us didn't have brakes. So, when Tod stopped, they dic:fu't. Good news though, no damage done, and the car that hit us was part of the ''Boston bound\ gang. Tod and Karen got some really strange looks from passers by who couldn't comprehend why two people who were just in an accident were hugging ec- statically in the middle.of Union ·Ave. ferences, we paraded around Boston in the pouring rain. At Harvard we got lost in The Coop, which is their version of a bookstore. Quite frankly, The Coop put our little store to shame. They sold everything from vacuums to stereo systems. In fact, compared to Union, eve.rything at Harvard was larger than life. One of the Harvard libraries had a card catalog department that equalled Schaffer Library in size. Let's not forget the unusual events involving our stay at the \distinguished\ Marriott Hotel. The service we received there was Ul1Iike any I ever hoped to experience. The maids were kind enough to refold our dirty too. You could even: get cereal and juice for a mere $11.99. · All in all, it was an amazing weekend. We worked hard (see page 5 Jan Baran's article) and played hard too. I do hope the Israeli delegate wasn't offended by our offer of Yemeni friend- ship beans (actually jelly beans). The Union delegates learned a great deal at the conference, and we learned a lot about each other too. In fact, I heard Craig comJ>laining that Tod kept him up all night with his sleep talking: I do hope that Lisa is keepillg her terrorist activities to a minimum. If she contillaully kidnaps delegates with water guns they may call a caucus, or demand em- b.arassing apologies. So, onward we went. Then it was my turn to drive, What an experience. , Really,. I didn't mean to stall three times at the toll booth. I just couldn't get the hang of shifting into first. The poor toll collector almost fell out of the booth when she at- tempted to hand me the change. I guess I wasn't close enough to the window. towels, and were even so con- ..---~----------= Upon our arrival in Boston,· our first order of business was to find a place to park. Somehow we ended up in the loading dock of the Marriott, where an illiterate slob yelled, \Brilliant\ to us. That's okay, Amy came up with an amazing comeback: \At least we'll have a real job\! Finally, we found the parking garage and proceeded upward to the 21st floor of the Marriott. (Note: At this point we were all decep- tively impressed by the elegant appearance of this establish- ment.). Oh, did I forget to mention the reason for our road trip to Boston? The International Relations Club was represen- ting Yemen (yes, I did say Yemen) at the Model United Nations Conference. As a delegate representing Yemen I felt fairly inadequate next to the representatives of Jordan, Israel, and Saudi Arabia who had been sent from these countries and had spent months researching their topics. Moving onward; I'd like to personally thank the fine West Point Cadets (who lived in the room next door) for making me realize that Union guys aren't so bad after all. Behind their facade of angelic politeness was a level of scheming desparateness higher than any I've ever encountered before. After we gave them the classic \cadet dump\ they quickly walked away with their Somewhat bruised egos and never bothered us again; except for the strange noises we heard from their rooms all night long. The next day before con· siderate as to, leave our dirty glasses from the night before on · our nightstands in case we wished to reuse them. One morning I woke up (an hour late, because the wake up service decided I needed more sleep) and threw myself into a hot shower. As soon as I had covered myself in soap and shampoo the water pressure began to decrease. PaniC! I tried the cold water; it also dropped off to a slow tri~le. Then, to my horror, it sputtered out sludge-like soot and com- pletely stopped. There I stood, cold, wet, soapy mascara in my eyes, and a thin film of soot on top of it all. I was not a happy camper. I'm sure Lisa wasn't exactly thrilled with the Marriott either. She . spent twenty minutes trapp~(l in an elevator with thirty other hot, unhappy delegates, and at least one claustrophobic. After hitting the alarm for some time, they finally managed to pry open the door enough to squeeze out. Only six of the nine elevators even stopped on our floor, and· we often found ourselves waiting endlessly for them to arrive. Another interesting trick the elevators enjoyed playing on us was tripping us on the way out. When the doors opened to let us off on our floors, the elevators would bounce up and down about sjx inches (as if their shocks were gone). Of course, if you were in a hurry and didn't wait (or them to settle you were a goner. We finally resort(\d to JISing the service elevator. I wonder if all the guests at The Mariott have a ~datory one o'clock curfew, enforced by security guards. These \red tag\ men were an annoying deterrence to nightime fun. The room service was exceptional! · '<!ri£ntauu' s QIIe(ltt£rs & Z!Iailors Jlitn. NOW 2.LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU Wiemann· .a D'Arjay's 1714 UNION STREET 1621 UNION STREET PHONE 374~6647 PHOI\tl: 393-0917 10% CASH & CARRY DISCOUNTS Specializing in Suede & Leather Cleaning Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome - . Foley To Speak at Sch 'dy Museum \Seeing is Deceiving\ is the title of the fourth in the Schenectady Museum's ··series of science lectures. In this in· teresting and sometimes surm prising talk Hugh Foley, Assistant Professor of Psychology, will show the audience how easily we can be fooled by optical illusions. According to Prof. Foley, \If you are like most people you tend to trust what you see. In fact, you don't have to be from Missouri to feel that 'seeing is believing.' In spite of our reliance on our visual system, it doesn't always provide us with an accurate 'picture' of the world outside us. Just as the magician's misdirection can cause us to misperceive tpe world, so too can certain stimuli in the world lead us to either multiple interpretations, or to a wrong interpretation. These illusions are very important to psychologists because they indicate the conditions under which our senses are most prone to error.\ Foley will illustrate his talk with many of the classic·visual illusions as well as · some of more recent origin. To illustrate a potential source for some powerful illusions caused by a two-dimensional representation of depth, various art works will be discussed, including some works of M.C. Escher. After the lecture the audi.ence will visit the museum's Sensation and Perception exhibit. Refresh- ments will be served. The science lecture series is sponsored by the Friends of the Schenectady Museum. Admission is $2. Schenectady County seniors are admitted free. ............................................. ; ........................................................................................................................ :···············~ Faculty Research Deadline The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now . soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship . activities. Applications and guidelines are available in ; · Dean Kaplan's Office (5100-S & E). The deadline for : i submission of proposals is Friday, April 11. · . Questions concerning the Faculty Re!;earch Fund : sho.uld be directed to Dean Kaplan. Please specify if : : funds will be needed before June 20, 1986 or after. When : · preparing budgets, please remember that per diem .~=======~ : rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Tran- . . sportation. costs should a I so · reflect the best rates . available. =· :. • •••• • •• • ••••• • ••••••••• ••• ••••• ..... • ••• • •••• ••• • ••• ••••••••• .. •••••• •••••~••• •P• ••••••••• •••• _••••~•••••••••••••••• •••o ••• •• •• ••••••• • •• •••••'\'•••••••••••••• ••• 1 •• • •••••••••• •••• ••• • ) • ---- - .... -- -.-- Prizes for Poets Deadline March 31 (Ask About It in Humanities 210) -- - 'I I

CONCORDIENSIS, Februarp27, 1986 ., ................................... ~ What Mom & Dad· don't know is that the cost of a good institution includes a weekend dedicated sole.ly to their education. · E Bio-Ciub £ . . . ~ i meet1ng 1n · £ £ Lower lounge £ $ · Hale 4:30 £ Parent's Weekend May9, 10,11 i. . .. Thursday,£ !Feb. 27, 1986 t There wlll be an organizational meetjng of Idol Union's Arts and Literary Magazine ¥. ......... )(. ................. . jiMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllJJi 1 - Saturday, .March 1 ~-~­ Saturday, March 8 ~ ~ ~ . There wi II be a 40 passenger ~ ··; Bus To The Malls i i i = Departure Times.: ~- • Colonie \!!! Union College Mohawk Center ~ Late Night Bites A.I-1-,Ca m.pu s Jam Session Every Sunday & Thursday 9:30-12:30 Thursday- Haus & Bugle Hot Apple Pie tlot Apple Pie Ala Mode Carrot Cake Cheese Cake Chocolate Creme Pie German Chocolate Cake Walnut Creme Cllke Brownie Ala Mode Ice Cream Sundaes Reeses Pieces Coffee .45 Tea .45 Health -Bar Crunch Page9 .75 1.15 1.25 1.50 1.75 1.30 1.15 1.75 1.00 1.25 Chocolate Mil •• 45 Sclda~45 6:30P.M. = .(OidChapel) \Y\ Mall 5i ::; (Boston Store). (Sears Garden (To Be ~ Hot Cocea .55 llerltlea .55 Monday, March 3rd Humanities Lounge All those wishing tp work on· the Spring issue which is. totally devote.d to the Arts, please attend. All those wishing ·to submit their . photographs and/o.r drawings may leave them in the English office. Plea~e include name and box number. ------ . ~ Center) Announced} ~ ~ 12noon 12:20 12:40 1:00 ~ ~ 1:30 1:50 2:10. 2!30 ~ -~ 3:oo· 3:30 3:40 4:oo ~ ~ 4:.30 4:50 5:10 5:30 ~ ~ 6:00 6:20 6:40 7:00 ~ ~ 5 ~- 7:.30 7:50 8:10 8:30 5a ~ 9:~0 9:20 9:40 10:00 ~ = 11:40 12:00 A,M. 12:20 A.M. 12:40 A.M. ~ = \return = ~ •·~;:~~:: ::~ be p~rchased at the licket.boolh in I ;; Old Chapel. The price is $1.00 round trip. § 51liiii~IIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1IIIilllllll1111111111111111111111111111illlllllllll111111111111illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilill Congratulations to Drs. Sorum, Jonas, Wells, & Phaup Bourbon -in the spirit of American 1 ndependence, :the first Bourl:)on was distil·led from corn in Bourbon County, Kentucky Moffett's Liquors VanVranken Ave. (Next to Norstar Bank) Ask for our delicious Bourbon Recipes ALBANY AREA UNIV-ERSITIES AND COLLE.GES! fti,I~N llftiJSI~ for . _ Students, Fac~/ty & Staff ;z,NITN data ---. · .systems THE QUALITY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON OFFERS YOU: IBM ·P.C. COMPATIBLE MICRo- COMPUTERS AND MUCH, MUCH MORE • ZFL\171-42 • 15 lb. Portable • LCD Backlit Display • 256K RAM •- Dual 5 '14' Disk Dnves $1349. THESE PRICES NOT COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE • ZF-138-42 • 24 lb. Desktop • 7\ CRT Display • 256K RAM • Expandable to 640K • ZF-158 • Desktop PC • 256K RAM • Expar.dable to 640K • ZF-241 • AT-Compatible • 80286 Processor • 512K RAM • 6 Mhz Clock • Single 1.2MB Floppy or • 20 MB Wmchester from $2199 • Switchable 4.77/8 Mhz Clock • Single and Dual 5't4' Drives from $1149 • ZF-148 • 22 lb. DesktOp • 256K RAM • Expandable to 640K • Switch able 4.77/8 Mhz Clock • Single and DualS v.'' Drives from $750* *Ask about new promotion! • Switchable 4.77/8 Mhz Clock DON'T MISS IT/I Wednesday, March 5th • Dual 5 V.\ Drives $999 The Open House will be at: . SOFTWARE PLUS 1539 Central Ave. Albany, NY 12205 (518) 456-2216 Representatives from :Zenith, SOFTWARE PLUS and PIERCE PHELPS Will Be Present Zeonith Data Systems offers a family of products that are compatible not only with the industry standard, but within the ZDS family itself. From a 15 lb. Portable. to an entry level desktop, to a multiuser AT compatible. Zenith Data Systems offers you PC Compatibility and much more.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February2'1, 1986 Foundn/ al limon Collt:ge 1817 A New Concession · In reaction to student unrest regarding a lack of social options, there was a need to create the \21 Club.\ We can do nothing but applaud the efforts of those concerned in creating a social alternative that will possibly fill some of the void in student social life. We must commend President Morris, Dean Manunola, and those members of the Student Forum that were involved in creating the 21 Club. They have done this in an organized, rational manner that takes into account the needs of both underage students and those of the age of majority. To· some degree, this should not be seen as a panacea, and groups must continue to work to find new social alternatives. However, this example serves to extend into the· realm of other problems that Union faces. It shows us that when we have a complex problem that faces us, we cannot always have the foresight to make perfect decisions. Both students and administrators must realize this. This should serve as an example that students and deans and administrators can work together to solve problems that face the college community. . It should also continue to serve as an example that concessions must be made now, and must continue to be made by all the members concerned, in order to make Union a better place to be. LETTER-S One Consistent Argument ' ~----~----~--------~ To the Editor: Last month, tbe Academic · Affairs Council passed the proposal, Gel-Time, against the advice of the Student Forum, and the students themselves (826 against Gel-Tune, 111 for it) . The rationale that the council used in passing the proposal, which met so much student opposition, is that the .students have not come up with one consistent argument against Gel-Time, while the council has come up with several strong · and un- contestable reasons for its implementation. I hope this letter can give you what you are looking for. In looking at the history of Gel- Time, one can see how unique it would be to Union College. Gel-Time was to be the answer to all the pressing problems of the SEMESTER SYSTEM. In the schools that use the semester system, students, in oPder to fulfill certain requirements sometimes have to take five or more courses during one semester. As a result, the students would be in classes four-and-a-half to five hours per had classes and also the days · Gei.;Time will make for a they had none. This problem.· more flexible schedule. With' a does not eXist at Union~ In our lil:nited number of time slots three class· scbedule, most available, it seems highly students spend approximately unlikely that it ·would be easier tw~rand-a-half hours in classes to choose classes. Gel-Time (plus, in some cases, a three does not create courses, hour lab), and as a result, do not professors do and with have the same problem. professors teaching less courses The problem Union students next year, it appears to be often complain about is the another three terms of our pressure of a ten-weeki system. limited course curriculum. With Gel-Time the students There are also several would still be responsible to courses . that thrive on the learn the same amount of reinforcement of the everyday material in the same ten weeks. system, for example, calculus The only way to reduce the and foreign languages. pressure of a ten week system is Speaking of calculus, can you to go to a fifteen week system. imagine one hour and forty Then we would all have an minutes of calculus at nine additional five weeks to learn o'clock? No way. the material. To implement Add to this all the changes Gel-Time for this reason is that have been made thus far wrong. this year. Does the student body As far as the other, \advan- need another policy which they tages\ are concerned, I don't neither want nor need. NO! I see any of them as being worth personally do not want to be the change. The mid-week part of a two year experiment weekend is very well liked by which, on paper, is destined for the students of Union. Student failure and student use it either-to study or to just dissatisfaction. relax. It is, in a sense, our Gel- Members of the .Faculty: Day. I cannot understand wby When the Gel..;. Time proposal anyone would like to get rid of comes to a vote next month, it. Further, how can the council please vote it down. This would M e • 8 u e · day. That's when they invented lnorltles . at . mon Gel-Time. This was to allow for more time for students to study both during the days when they use this as a negative point in be the biggest mistake of aU. our present system as it is one of the fundamental concepts of Gel-Time. This is our day to Gel. I also cannot believe that Respectfully, Michael Hiller '88 If your name is not Michael or Susan and you're not from Long Island then don't come to Union. This statement from Lisa Birnbach's college book, although certainly not tfue, does bring up some valid points. ·· f · 'ti t U · 1· ·t th The lac'K o nunor1 es a mon um s · e op- portunity for students to seek out friends~ps and learn about backgrounds other than· their own. Furthermore, in a place as dull as Schenectady, we should at least have a better chanc;e to meet different types of people. Instead, we meet the \~arne'' people over and over again. They tend to blend mto the walls after a while Moreover, the small number of minority groups here does not allow each group. to form a strong conununity within the campus community. There is B.L.A.S., the Black and Latin Alliance of Students, but how often do we hear from them? This is not meant as a criticism to this group. However, there is more power in numbers and there simply are not enough minority students to enable this gro~p to become an influential part of our school conunuruty. Presently, there are only 52 Black students, 22 Hispanic studentst and 53 Asian Students at Union, .a mere 6.3% of the student body. The College Is however enrolling more minorities than ever before, and should be given credit for its efforts. The class of 1989 has 17 Black students, 12 Hispanic students, 21 Asian students, and 1 American Indian, which is ~.~% of the freshman class. This appears to be a positive upward trend. By the way, Williams College has a freshman class of 507. Of these students, there are 22 Black students, (the. lowest in 10 years), 35 Asians and 10 Hispanics and a total figure of 13% American minorities. This figure is more reflective of something that Union should strive for. The statistics are as follows: Class 1986 1987 1988 1989 Total Black 6 Hispanic 2 Asian 3 Total 11 9 20 3 5 10 19 22 44 *includes American Indians 17 52,2.5% 12 22,1.1% 21 53,2.6% *52 *129, 6.3% All nwnbers based on Fall1985 registratiol). The figures here show that the problem of minority enrollment seems to be getting better. It's good to know that the College is addressing this situation and that some effort is being made to improve it. However, the College should admit more minority students in order to form a better atmosphere for both minority and non-minority students. We all could benefit from a more diverse student body. It certainly could do Michael and Susie from Long Island a lot of good. A Blatant Disregard To the Editor: Upon reading last weeks article in the Concordy, about \Gel..:Time\; I was more thdn · appalled at the administration's . decision to pass the \GelQTime\ Class schedule in spite of an 8: 1 rejection by the students. This· act by the administration is a blatent disregard for student input in campus affairs. This time, the achninistration has affected an area Which touches all students at Union- academics. The vote conducted last spring had a large and very negative student reaction. The administration should have realizeq . the student vote against \Gel-Time\ was .not the apathetic reaction usually dislayed by Union students. There were over 1,000 students who participated in this vote: Being a Gatesmen puts me in a situation where I am asked about what I think of Union and what sets it apart from other schools. I have always en- thusiaStically said Union is a small, close conununity with administration and faculty who care. Because of all that has been going on over the past year and the amount of student unhappiness, I may find myself wondering why a student should choose· to attend Union over another comparable school. It seems the -administration has forgotten their reason for being here: they are here for us, the students. Kelly J. Larkin Class of '87 Students Must Be Responsble to be Heard To the Editors: This year, a new feature was added to the library for the students' use. A compact disc player, equipped with head- phones, and a sizeable compact disc library were made · available. On February 20, the li- brary deemed it necessary to discontinue the signing out of the player and discs. Unfor- tunately, several members of the student body had removed up to 20 compact discs from the library; other discs had been damaged. In the past few weeks, I have joined my voice with other students' on campus, in voicing complaints concerning our plight-and our lack of control over certain circumstances. · This, however, is a case in which we have worsened our own situation as well as the argument that the student body should be treated and trusted as responsible adults. Sincerely disgusted, JohnS. Morgan, '87 All Letten to the Editor must be typed doubla·spaced and submitted br 4 p.m. each Tuesday before pubRcatlan. All loiters must be signed by no mere than four people and all wrltm ahoukl provide their addr81ses and phone numbert for verification of the letter. Namo1 normallr will not lie withheld. . Conc:ordlentls ruervea the right to reject letten that arellbeloui or do not conform to standards ofgood tash. - wl up fir Sp tir be c~ ha co Cc li( dr po in Cc all fr• stl do C< thi of Sc th Gt fol Fr de re fo1 in: pa c~ ml an to an ar ru pr to be Sti pr se1 aU \2 ar thj Cc pr Ia1 in .ffil wl pl~ tw an fa SOl to Mi ou te1 Rl ex wl thj ha an pll ev H< ar, ell DE an an CCJ do ev gi1 gi1 M~ tal he ne thl roj he wi wi wt ~ ne re1 th4 At Til wt

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 FoU!Ukd a1 limon Co/lee~ 1877 In reaction to stu.dent unrest regarding a lack of social options, there was a need to create the \21 Club.\ We can do nothing but applaud the efforts of those concerned in creating a socia~ alternative that will possibly fill some of the void in student social life. We must commend President Morris, Dean Mammola, and those members of the Student Forwn that were involved in creating the 21 Club. They have done this in an organized, rational manner that takes into account the needs of both underage students and those of the age of majority. To some degree, this should not be seen as a panacea, and groups must continue to work to find new social alternatives. However, this example serves to extend into the· realm of other problems that Union faces. It shows us that when we have a complex problem that faces us, we cannot always have the foresight to make perfect decisions. Both students and administrators must realize this. This should serve as an example that students and deans and administrators can work together to solve problems that face the college community. It should also continue to serve as an example that concessions must be made now, and must continue to be made by all the members concerned, in order to make Union a better place to be. Minorities at Union If your name is not Michael or Susan and you're not from Long Island then don't come to Union. This statement from Lisa Birnbach' s college book, although certainly not true, does bring up some valid points. The lack of minorities at Union limits the op- portunity for students to seek out friendships and learn about backgrounds other than their own. Furthermore, in a place as dull as Schenectady, we should at least have a better chance to meet different types of people. Instead, we meet the \same\ people over and over again. They tend to blend into the walls after a while Moreover, the small number of minority groups here does not allow each group. to form a strong community within the campus community. There is B.L.A.S., the Black and Latin Alliance of Students, but how often do we hear from them? This is not meant as a criticism to this group. However, there is more power in numbers and there simply are not enough minority students to enable this group to become an influential part of our school community. Presently, there are only 52 Black students, 22 Hispanic students, and 53 Asian Students at Union, a mere 6.3% of the student body. The College is however enrolling more minorities than ever before, and should be given credit for its efforts. The class of 1989 has 17 Black students, 12 Hispanic students, 21 Asian students, and 1 American Indian, which is 9.8% of the freshman class. This appears to be a positive upward trend. By the way, Williams College has a freshman class of 507. Of these students, there are 22 Black students, (the lowest in 10 years), 35 Asians and 10 Hispanics and a total figure of 13%American minorities. This figure is more reflective of something that Union should strive for. The statistics are as follows: Class 1986 1987 1988 1989 Total Black 6 Hispanic 2 Asian 3 Total 11 9 20 3 5 10 19 22 44 *includes American Indians 17 52,2.5% 12 22, 1.1% 21 53,2.6% *52 *129, 6.3% All nwnbers based on Fall1985 registration. The figures here show that the problem of minority enrollment seems to be getting better. It's good to know that the College is addressing this situation and that some effort is being made to improve it. However, the College should admit more minority students in order to form a better atmosphere for both minority and non-minority students. We all could benefit from a more diverse student body. It certainly could do Michael and Susie from Long Island a lot of good. LETTERS One Consistent Argument ----------------------- To the Editor: Last month, the Academic Affairs Council passed the proposal, Gel-Time, against the advice of the Student Forum, and the students themselves (826 against Gel-Time, 111 for it). The rationale that the councii used in passing the proposal, which met so much student opposition, is that the students have not come up with one consistent argument against Gel-Time, while the council has come up with several strong and un- contestable reasons for its implementation. I hope this letter can give you what you are looking for. In looking at the history of Gel-Time, one can see how unique it would be to Union College. Gel-Time was to be the answer to all the pressing problems of the SEMESTER SYSTEM. In the schools that use the semester system, students, in order to fulfill certain requirements sometimes have to take five or more courses during one semester. As a result, the students would be in classes four-and-a-half to five hours per day. That's when they invented Gel-Time. This was to allow for more time for students to study both during the days when they had classes and also the days they had none. This problem · does not exist at Union. In our three class schedule, most students spend approximately two-and-a-half hours in classes (plus, in some cases, a three hour lab), and as a result, do not bave the same problem. The problem Union students often complain about is the pressure of a ten-week~system. With Gel-Time the students would still be responsible to learn the same amount of material in the same ten weeks. The only way to reduce the pressure of a ten week system is to go to a fifteen week system. Then we would all have an additional five weeks to learn the material. To implement Gel-Time for this reason is wrong. As far as the other, \advan- tages\ are concerned, I don't see any of them as being worth the change. The mid-week weekend is very well liked by the students of Union. Student use it either to study or to just relax. It is, in a sense, our Gel- Day. I cannot understand why anyone would like to get rid of it. Further, how can the council use this as a negative point in our present system as it is one of the fundamental concepts of Gel-Time. This is our day to Gel. I also cannot believe that Gel-Time wHl make for a more flexible schedule. With a limited number of time slots available, it seems highly unlikely that it ·would be easier to choose classes. Gel-Time does not create courses, professors do and with professors teaching less courses next year, it appears to be another three terms of our limited course curriculum. There are also several courses that thrive on the reinforcement of the everyday system, for example, calculus and foreign languages. Speaking of calculus, can you imagine one hour and forty minutes of calculus at nine o'clock? No way. Add to this all the changes that have been made thus far this year. Does the student body need another policy which they neither want nor need. NO! I personally do not want to be part of a two year experiment which, on paper, is destined for failure and student dissatisfaction. Members of the Faculty: When the Gel-Time proposal comes to a vote next month, please vote it down. This would be the biggest mistake of all. Respectfully, Michael Hiller '88 A Blatant Disregard To the Editor: Upon reading last weeks article in the Concordy, about \Gel-Time\, I was more than appalled at the administration's decision to pass the \Gel-Time\ Class schedule in spite of an 8:1 rejection by the students. This act by the administration is a blatent disregard for student input in campus affairs. This time, the administration has affected an area which touches all students at Union- academics. The vote conducted last spring had a large and very negative student reaction. The administration should have realized the student vote against \Gel-Time\ was not the apathetic reaction usually dislayed by Union students. There were over 1,000 students who participated in this vote. Being a Gatesmen puts me in a situation where I am asked about what I think of Union and what sets it apart from other schools. I have always en- thusiastically said Union is a small, close community with administration and faculty who care. Because of all that has been going on over the past year and the amount of student unhappiness, I may find myself wondering why a student should choose to attend Union over another comparable school. It seems the administration has forgotten their reason for being here: they are here for us, the students. Kelly J. Larkin Classof'87 Students Must Be ResponS.ble to be Heard To the Editors: This year, a new feature was added to the library for the students' use. A compact disc player, equipped with head- phones, and a sizeable compact disc library were made available. On February 20, the li- brary deemed it necessary to discontinue the signing out of the player and discs. Unfor- tunately, several members of the student body had removed up to 20 compact discs from the library; other discs had been damaged. In the past few weeks, I have joined my voice with other students' on campus, in voicing complaints concerning our plight-and our lack of control over certain circumstances. This, however, is a case in which we have worsened our own situation as well as the argument that the student body should be treated and trusted as responsible adults. Sincerely disgusted, JohnS. Morgan, '87 All LeHers to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submiHed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide thoir addre1u11 and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not bo withheld. Concordlenslll resarvee the right to refect letten that are libelous or do not conform to standards of good taste. Editors-in.Chief Sarah Calderlni, Jay Grossman News Editors DavidMarin, Linda Raffaele Associate News Editor Dave Glllliver Features Editors . Mickey Bradley, LeeAnnSchinidt Commentary Page Editors . Greg Fay, Stuart Sands Arts Editors Debbie Albert, Too Dimmick Campus Page Editor . I,Jsa Marzilli Sports Editors . Doug Lloyd, Charlie Slotnik Associate Sports Editor Jim Solomon Advertising Editors 'Debbie Rose, EllenSlipp, LaurenSobel Assoc. Adv. Editor JaniceGrossmart Business Managers Keith Conklin, Nancy Grundman Photo Editor Dave Gruber Sports Pho0to Editor . . Stuart Odell Subscription Editor . . Bill Fenstermaker Staff: Peter Agricola, Jan Baran, Valerie Bromberg, John Bruce, Eric Feingold, Usa F()ley, Maureen Coleman, Michael Glass, Debbie GoUin, Ben Haftel, Kim Hancock, Monique Harrison, Adam Helfand, A,ndy Hodgkin, Christie Hong, Brian Kelly~ Jane Kissel, Bob Koch, Steve Konlian, Beth Levine, Cathy Markes,. Juanne McAndrews, Pat Merritt, Penni Morganstein, K.eUey .Park, Nick Piccirillo, Howie Podolsky, J.udy Price, Joy Runyon, PaulSehop, Evan Shack, Laura Shapjro, Kaveh Shebani, Conrad Tatge, Amy Walsh. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union Col1ege, Schenectady, New York 12.,08; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publicati()IUJ, Inc., B:ox 388, Sidney, NewYork 13833, (607) 563~3526. Subscription rate: $24 per year,delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and Ametican College Syndicate. Of*ice Telephone-( 518)37o-6155 I I \ : I I I ) ! i \I - To T whi upo fim Spr tim bee Col has ma tog1 foo1 tha \W T COil Col liql dro pot: ins Col an~ fra stm doo Col thrJ of 1 Scli the Gr~ folc Frc de~ ref1 fow int1 pat Col mu any to r. an1 are rus: pro to betj sta pre see: all \21 aro the Col p~:e laq in t mu whE plel two a no fac son to Mir A our tert Rat ext1 whE the hav and plaJ eve Hot are. elm DeE and ann Cot doe eve giVI giVI Mo1 tab I hea nev tha1 fOOl he a will will whi 0 nes rep1 the Ati Tin whe

CONCORDIENS{S, February 27, 1986 Page 11 -~------- -~ - '-----~--~---~ -·--~·~. . ~.....--- Time to Stop. Tolerating To the Editor: The eighth week of a wind- whipped winter term is now upon us and as we prepare for finals and a glorious week of Spring Break, it just may be the time to consider what we have been demanding from the College and what the College has offered to us in return. Just maybe we can put' our heads together and put an end to the fo()tdragging and stonewalling that have · characterized the \Winter of Our Miscontent.\ The new liquor law caused considerable havoc and the College, not wanting to be in the liquor distributing business, dropped its students like a hot potato. Claiming liability and insurance increases, the College Willingly, and without any· real choice, disen~ franchised its constituent students. But, behind the locked doors of Hale House, the Union College Catering Service thrived, providing for all sorts of receptions from the Rhodes Scholar dinner to a reception for the G.E. Reactor Design Graduates. While pl~asantries folowed, so too did the alcohol. From out of the cavernous depths of Food Service refrigerators, beer and wine found its way to the tables and into the bellies of paying patrons ... paying non-Union College Student patrons. So much for not wanting to have anything to do with alcohol, not to mention any liability. But, in an environment where students are sometimes forgotten in the rush towards the bottom lirie profit, would it have been folly to have expected ·anything better from the College? Double standards most certainly prevail, and we as students seem to come out losers. Aha, all of a sudden, the idea of the \21 Club\ having been kicked around for the entire term by the Student Forum and the College and never really presented to the campus at large, is finally approved, just in time· for finals week and our much needed break. Maybe when we return we will have the pleasure of waiting 2 week or two as the College attempts another grand renovation of facilities. Or just maybe, someone will have the foresight to get it done over break. Miracle of Miracles! As the winter chill settles in our bones, we can all be en- tertained by the fact that the Rathske... is now undergoing extensive renovation, and may, when finished, provide us with the central meeting area we have been demanding all term and one which should have been planned long before this term ever fell upon us. Maybe Hale House was supposed· to be that area, but someone decided to close it at 3:00 every day. The Deans say it wasn't their idea and were surprised by the announcement last week in Concordy, and the Forum doesn't seem to care enough even to ask why. If in all of the give and take students haven't given enough, as of this past Monday, the Rathsk ... foosball table had returned to vendor heaven, that place in never- never land where equipment that just takes up too much room and holds a place in our hea.rts gets to go. Hopefull~ we will get it back and Jan uray will save the day and ride her White steed into the sunset. On Monday night, we wit- nessed a travesty of representative government as the Student Forum convened. At issue was the proposed Gel- Time schedule which last year when put to the students for a vote was defeated by an 8: 1 ratio. This week it comes to a faculty vote and if passed, becomes the law of our land (the trustee's land, that is) for the next two years. Of course, the students were involved in our special form of par- ticipatory government by having a vote, but it seems all for naught. Vote .Qr no vote, we made no difference. That some members. of the faculty and Administration may deride our vote as having been the product of ignorance. and of immature logic, it should be s;;tid that in a democratic society a vote is a vote and the reason behind it is of no consequence. When a referendum is voted down, what counts is that its content did not appeal to the constituent voters. It seems that because Union advertises itself as a com- munity, an entity which left to itself, must decide for its future and prove worthy of its present challenges, it is only reasonable that the College be. held responsible for following the tenets that are inherent in the concept of community. -In a community, those who make up that community are appealed to by those who are elected to govern it, and the mood of the public is always a factor in policy decisions. While we' cannot insist that our leader- ship, the Executive. officers of the College, be subject to election by the campus, we can insist that they respect the students and the consensus of our community.· The College should in fact be a place where life is tailored to the needs and demands of the students so long as they conform to the laws of the state of New York and of the United States, and where initiatives that run counter to the consensus are discussed openly within the community. Any attempts to circumvent the will of the students, particularly in an area as important to us as the curriculum itself, are illegitimate and should be regarded as such by the entire campus. It should be noted that in a \real life\ community, unresponsive leaders don't remain leaders. The Executive Officers of the College are not tied to the land, nor do they have any other claim to it other than it is their place of employ. Though difficult, they can be replaced, just as our Student Forum can be. Nothing positive can evolve if this democratic process is frustrated. As a function ·Of this concept,. we as students and as the majority of the community are morally compelled to assume an in- tegral role in the process of community decision-making, from formulation of the budget to the preservation of our social alternatives, and to the sub- stance and form of our curriculum. By our very ex- clusion from that process we can sense in our College a lack of faith and trust in those whom it accepts to study here and in time, to bring honor and distinction to Union. How should we •feel? Honored, exalted, privileged? I feel abandoned, neglected and inconsequential. I didn't come here to be made to feel that way. The College invites us to become involved, to open ourselves to a new world, but prohibits us from entry into anytbing of substance. That it holds for itself alone. They treat us as their playthings and every so often appease us with a new gift. What will it be this time, a new van, or a salted walkway? They keep us on the edge of marginal happiness, and push over and yank us back at their own whim. In training us to be leaders, the College makes us apprentices in the art of following and insists that we will be all the better for it. It will only be better for us when we have a real say in our College and will not be found by merely relying on the rubberstamp function of the Student Forum, tbeir ultimate gift to ap- peasement. Our Student Forum, duly elected by our ''in- consequential\ community goes on to fame promoting the needs of its constituents, but here too, only sometimes. On the Gel-Time issue, they hesitate to take a position either way. One would expect them to take the position of the students who elect them. Say NO!, and say it forcefully has been our mandate to them. Instef;ld, they hide ln a show of unanimity. and say, \We will postpone.\ They don't insist on the reevaluation of course content by faculty, and they equivocate on class scheduling and overcrowding. That kind of concern for the troubles students are facing may not be within the grasp of our ineffective student leadership. When only one person runs for the presidency of the Student Forum, we find ourselves faced with no choice. Now we are paying for it in spades. I am appealing to the campus and the faculty and most especially to the Student Forum to understand and to recognize that as a conununity, students do make up the majority, and it is our lives alone that are most directly affected by policies on this campus. Insist that the students' voice must carry weight, and stop allowing our demands to go on unfilfilled. You have been elected by the students to represent them. Do your jobs and dCI them right. People have placed a great deal ()(trust in you. It is ironic that so many of us are horrified by the South African example of minority rule and majority suppression, and yet we tolerate its practice in our own midst. It's t~e to stop tolerating. Sincerely, Jason Green, '87 Sent Choir Appreciated To the Editor: this past Sunday, February 23, the combined chOirs from Union College, Worcester Polytechnic Irtstitute, and Wells College performed a concert entitled ''Four Coronation Anthems.'' It is too bad that more people did not attend the concert. The choir ~ and orchestra accompaniment were both outstanding in the production . of this classical piece. We'd like to congratulate the members of the Union College Choir on a job well done and let them know that their efforts are appreciated. Marianne Hladik '86 Joanne McAndrews, '88 LETTERS Correction Noted Editor, Concordiensis: I am writing to correct a statement made in the article on gel-time which appears in your February 20 issue~ That article asserts that the faculty would vote on the AAC proposal at its meeting of February 28. As it turns out, the faculty is meeting on February 28, but that meeting is to be devoted to a panel discussion on ad- missions. The gel-time iss!ie is, at this writing, tentatively scheduled for a faculty vote in early April. Thus there is ample time for student voices to be beard on that issue. Sincerely, Theodore A. Bick Department of Mathematics College In Transition To the Editor: I am writing in response to your editorial of last week and . also concerning a few general observations of this term. As you indicated, the Student Forum conduete.d an in- vestigation concerning what was perceived to be an increase in class size in certain depart- ments. What we found was that some departments did indeed experience an increase in class size. The reasons for these increases range from the revived interests of students in certain disciplines (a healthy problem) to, admittedly, more questionable reasons. The purpose of the report was to allow the Forum to go to the administration with : specific problems aswe saw them and to see if the administration saw these problems in a similar light. The tone of our discussion was one of cooperation and seriousness. It is important for the faculty and students to understand the manner in which this issue was raised by last week's editorial·was not the way in which the Forum wished this issue to be discussed, nor was it the way it was discussed in meetings with President Morris, Dr. D'Andrea, and members of the Forum. The Forum believes that the administration now un- derstands our concerns (which in most cases are concerns they also hold), and we anxiously await their response. It is important to remind ourselves of two things. First, that no matter how enormous our problems seem to be, or actuallY. are, they are always manageable. Constructive criticism is always welcomed, but shooting from the hip just aggravates the situation. Secondly, we should not allow the events of one term blind us from the College's ac- complishments in recent years. r speak specifically of academic excellence which, in my mind, rests mainly in the quality of the faculty. If one opens the Academic Register and examines the faculty wllich have been appointed during the past six years, you will find a group of active individuals who truly are dedicated to the profession of teaching. Using this as an indicator of academic excellence, Union can be very proud of its accomplishments. This does not mean that we can now sit back and reflect on our achievements. It is a trait of an academic community to constantly examine itself. 'This examination ranges from the Student Forum making its observations known to the administration to a more for- mal academic review board, such as the Subcouncil on the Curriculum. One final note. I see the College in transition on three fronts, 1) our curriculUm ·is undergoing review and modification, 2) the physical appearance of the campus is changing, and 3) the S()Cial structure and manner in which we congregate has been altered. These three ingredients mixed into one campus, with a heaping teaspoon of snow, ice, and rain and you get winter term 1985-86, a term which has earned the nickname, ''our winter of discontent.\ I am very :hopeful and excited a bout the future of the College, yet these feelings cannot in- terfere with important items presently on the agenda. However, they make the agenda much easier to deal with. Sincerelv. Andrew George, Senior Trustee Thanks A Lot To the Editor: I would like to thank Professors Clifford Brown and Brian Klunk, Monique Harrison, Karen Stash and Lorraine Marra for their help in making last weekend's trip to Boston and the Harvard National Model United Nations a success. Because of their help organizing and driving, this first winter activity of the In- ternational Relations Club was rewarding for all who par- ticipated. Sincerely, TodDimmick International Relations Club Terms Abroad Letters To the Editors: Acceptance letters for summer and fall Terms Abroad have or will be sent out in the next few days. I would ap- preciate your taking the time to think seriously about whether or not you will be able to par- ticipate it1 the program for which you have been accepted. If at any time you decide you cannot participate, please notify the Tel\'Iis Abroad office immediately ( x6002). There are long waiting lists in most of these programs, and thus otller people's plans depend on yours. Thank you very much for your cooperation. Sincerely yours, William W. Thornas Director of Terms Abr<>ad

CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 Page 11 Time to Stop Tolerating To the Editor: The eighth week of a wind- whipped winter term is now upon us and as we prepare for finals and a glorious week of Spring Break, it just may be the time to consider what we have been demanding from the College and what the College has offered to us in return. Just maybe we can put our heads together and put an end to the footdragging and stonewalling that have · characterized the \Winter of Our Miscontent.\ The new liquor law caused considerable havoc and the College, not wanting to be in the liquor distributing business, dropped its students like a hot potato. Claiming liability and insurance increases, the College willingly, and without any real choice, disen- franchised its constituent students. But, behind the locked doors of Hale House, the Union College Catering Service thrived, .providing for all sorts of receptions from the Rhodes Scholar dinner to a reception for the G .E. Reactor Design Graduates. While ple.asantries folowed, so too did the alcohol. From out of the cavernous depths of Food Service refrigerators, beer and wine found its way to the tables and into the bellies of paying patrons... paying non-Union College Student patrons. So much for not wanting to have anything to do with alcohol, not to mention any liability. But, in an environment where students are sometimes forgotten in the rush towards the bottom line profit, would it have been folly to have ex:pected anything better from the College? Double standards most certainly prevail, and we as students seem to come out losers. Aha, all of a sudden, the idea of the \21 Club\ having been kicked around for the entire term by the Student Forum and the College and never really presented to the campus at large, is finally approved, just in time for finals week and our much needed break. Maybe when we return we will have the pleasure of waiting 2. week or two as the College attempts another grand renovation of facilities. Or just maybe, someone will have the foresight to get it done over break. Miracle of Miracles! As the winter chill settles in our bones, we can all be en- tertained by the fact that the Rathske... is now undergoing extensive renovation, and may, when finished, provide us with the central meeting area we have been demanding all term and one which should have been planned long before this term ever fell upon us. Maybe Hale House was supposed to be that area, but someone decided to close it at 3:00 every day. The Deans say it wasn't their idea and were surprised by the announcement last week in Concordy, and the Forum doesn't seem to care enough even to ask why. If in all of the give and take students haven't given enough, as of this past Monday, the Rathsk ... foosball table had returned to vendor heaven, that place in never- never land where equipment that just takes up too much room and holds a place in our hearts gets to go. Hopeful!~ we will get it back and Jan uray will save the day and ride her white steed into the sunset. On Monday night, we wit- nessed a travesty of representative government as the Student Forum convened. At issue was the proposed Gel- Time schedule which last year when put to the students for a vote was defeated by an 8:1 ratio. This week it comes to a faculty vote and if passed, becomes the law of our land (the trustee's land, that is) for the next two years. Of course, the students were involved in our special form of par- ticipatory govenment by having a vote, but it seems aH for naught. Vote or no vote, we made no difference. That some members of the faculty and Administration may deride our vote as having been the product of ignorance, and of immature logic, it should be said that in a democratic society a vote is a vote and the reason behind it is of no consequence. When a referendum is voted down, what counts is that its content did not appeal to the constituent voters. It seems that because Union advertises itself as a com- munity, an entity which left to itself, must decide for its future and prove worthy of its present challenges, it is only reasonable that the College be held responsible for following the tenets that are inherent in the concept of community. In a community, those who make up that community are appealed to by those who are elected to govern it, and the mood of the public is always a factor in policy decisions. While we' cannot insist that our leader- ship, the Executive officers of the College, be subject to election by the campus, we can insist that they respect the students and the consensus of our community. The College should in fact be a place where life is tailored to the needs and demands of the students so long as they conform to the laws of the state of New York and of the United States, and where initiatives that run counter to the consensus are discu.ssed openly within the community. Any attempts to circumvent the will of the students, particularly in an area as important to us as the curriculum itself, are illegitimate and should be regarded as such by the entire campus. It should be noted that in a \real life\ community, unresponsive leaders don't remain leaders. The Executive Officers of the College are not tied to the land, nor do they have any other claim to it other than it is their place of employ. Though difficult, they can be replaced, just as our Student Forum can be. Nothing positive can evolve if this democratic process is frustrated. As a function of this concept, we as students and as the majority of the community are morally compelled to assume an in- tegral role in the process of community decision-making, from fonnulation of the budget to the preservation of our social alternatives, and to the sub- stance and form of our curriculum. By our very ex- clusion from that process we can sense in our College a lack of faith and trust in those whom it accepts to study here and in time, to bring honor and distinction to Union. How should we ·feel? Honored, ex:alted, privileged? I feel abandoned, neglected and inconsequentiaL I didn't come here to be made to feel that way. The College invites us to become involved, to open ourselves to a new world, but prohibits us from entry into anything of substance. That it holds for itself alone. They treat us as their playthings and every so often appease us with a new gift. What will it be this time, a new van, or a salted walkway? They keep us on the edge of marginal happiness, and push over and yank us back at their own whim. In training us to be leaders, the College makes us apprentices in the art of following and insists that we will be all the better for it. It will only be better for us when we have a real say in our College and will not be found by merely relying on the rubberstamp function of the Student Forum, their ultimate gift to ap- peasement. Our Student Forum, duly elected by our ''in- consequential\ community goes on to fame promoting the needs of its constituents, but here too, only sometimes. On the Gel-Time issue, they hesitate to take a position either way. One would ex:pect them to take the position of the students who elect them. Say NO!, and say it forcefully has been our mandate to them. Instead, they hide in a show of unanimity and say, \We will postpone.\ They don't insist on the reevaluation of course content by faculty, and they equivocate on class scheduling and overcrowding. That kind of concern for the troubles students are facing may not be within the grasp of our ineffective student leadership. When only one person runs for the presidency of the Student Forum, we find ourselves faced with no choice. Now we are paying for it in spades. lam appealing to the campus and the faculty and most especially to the Student Forum to understand and to recognize that as a community, students do make up the majority, and it is our lives alone that are most directly affected by policies on this campus. Insist that the students' voice must carry weight, and stop allowing our demands to go on unfilfilled. You have been elected by the students to represent them. Do your jobs and do them right. People have placed a great deal of trust in you. It is ironic that so many of us are horrified by the South African example of minority rule and majority suppression, and yet we tolerate its practice in our own midst. It's time to stop tolerating. Sincerely, Jason Green, '87 Sent Choir Appreciated To the Editor: This past Sunday, February 23, the combined choirs from Union College, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, and Wells College' performed a concert entitled \Four Coronation Anthems.\ It is too bad that more people did not attend the concert. The choir and orchestra accompaniment were both outstanding in the production of this classical piece. We'd like to congratulate the members of the Union College Choir on a job well done and let them know that their efforts are appreciated. Marianne Hladik '86 Joanne McAndrews, '88 LETTERS Correction Noted Editor, Concordiensis: I am writing to correct a statement made in the article on gel-time which appears in your February 20 issue. That article asserts that the faculty would vote on the AAC proposal at its meeting of February 28. As it turns out, the faculty is meeting on February 28, but that meeting is to be devoted to a panel discussion on ad- missions. The gel-time issue is, at this writing, tentatively scheduled for a faculty vote in early April. Thus there is ample time for student voices to be heard on that issue. Sincerely, Theodore A. Bick Department of Mathematics College In Transition To the Editor: I am writing in response to your editorial of last week and also concerning a few general observations of this term. As you indicated, the Student Forum conducted an in- vestigation concerning what was perceived to be an increase in class size in certain depart- ments. What we found was that some departments did indeed ex:perience an increase in class size. The reasons for these increases range from the revived interests of students in certain disciplines (a healthy problem) to, admittedly, more questionable reasons. The purpose of the report was to allow the Forum to go to the administration with ; specific problems as we saw them and to see if the administration saw these problems in a similar light. The tone of our discussion was one of cooperation and seriousness. It is important for the faculty and students to understand the manner in which this issue was raised by last week's editorial was not the way in which the Forum wished this issue to be discussed, nor was it the way it was discussed in meetings with President Morris, Dr. D'Andrea, and members of the Forum. The Forum believes that the administration now un- derstands our concerns (which in most cases are concerns they also hold), and we anxiously await their response. It is important to remind ourselves of two things. First, that no matter how enormous our problems seem to be, or actuallY. are, they are always manageable. Constructive criticism is always welcomed, but shooting from the hip just aggravates the situation. Secondly, we should not allow the events of one term blind us from the College's ac- complishments in recent years. I speak specifically of academic excellence which, in my mind, rests mainly in the quality of the faculty. If 0ne opens the Academic Register and examines the faculty which have been appointed during the past six years, you will find a group of active individuals who truly are dedicated to the profession of teaching. Using this as an indicator of academic excellence, Union can be very proud of its accomplishments. This does not mean that we can now sit back and reflect on our achievements. It is a trait of an academic community to constantly ex:amine itself. This examination ranges from the Student Forum making its observations known to the administration to a more for- mal academic review board, such as the Subcouncil on the Curriculum. One final note. I see the College in transition on three fronts, 1) our curriculum is undergoing review and modification, 2) the physical appearance of the campus is changing, and 3) the social structure and manner in which we congregate has been altered. These three ingredients mixed into one campus, with a heaping teaspoon of snow, ice, and rain and you get winter term 1985-86, a term which has earned the nickname, \our winter of discontent.\ I am very hopeful and ex:cited about the future of the College, yet these feelings cannot in- terfere with important items presently on the agenda. However, they make the agenda much easier to deal with. Sincerelv. Andrew George. Senior Trustee Thanks A Lot To the Editor: I would like to thank Professors Clifford Brown and Brian Klunk, Monique Harrison, Karen Stash and Lorraine Marra for their help in making last weekend's trip to Boston and the Harvard National Model United Nations a success. Because of their help organizing and driving, this first winter activity of the In- ternational Relations Club was rewarding for all who par- ticipated. Sincerely, TodDimmick International Relations Club Terms Abroad Letters To the Editors: Acceptance letters for surruner and fall Terms Abroad have or will be sent out in the nex:t few days. I would ap- preciate your taking the time to think seriously about whether or not you will be able to par- ticipate in the program for which you have been accepted. If at any time you decide you cannot participate, please notify the Terms Abroad office immediately (x6002). There are long waiting lists in most of these programs, and thus other people's plans depend on yours. Thank you very much for your cooperation. Sincerely yours, William W. Thomas Director of Terms Abroad

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 27,.1986 COMMENTARIES Negligence In Space By BOB KOCH Despite the fact that the Space Shuttle Challenger blew up about . a month ago, and although I have not spoken to him, Rich Cavoli, whose project was destroyed with the Shuttle, will probably make another project or continue on to some other scientific endeavor, and so for all of us here at Union College, life went on. This was my attitude after the calamity. I, of course, like millions of people worldwide, was shocked and horrified by the events that Tuesday mor- ning. I watched the news, saw the incident five hundred times, took my guess at the cause of the accident and thought NASA would never find out what really happened. After all, the flight had been cancelled time after time, so you would think every precaution had been taken. I was not that concerned with the lives of the families of the Challenger's crew because I •.vas so involved with my daily routine of classes, lunch, and some exercise. My interest in the incident remained intact and passively observed. But now, spurred on by the investigations of the explosion, and the results thus far, some new concern has been revived.. This interest of mine question~ the credibility of our top of· ficials who are responsible for deciding whether or not the Challenger should take off or not. I do not say the following statement to imply the disaster was humorous in any way, shape, or fashion, but I kind of have to laugh at what went on the night before the shuttle launch at Cape Canaveral. It i1l not the kind of laugh you get when you hear Eddie Murphy tell a joke, but the kind of un· fortunate laugh you have when, let us say, a punter misses the ball in a football game. Everyone is aware that the punter knows what he is doing, but after executing his job a million times before, he now looks like an idiot and will always be remembered in this light. It appears to me that in three weeks we will know that tile explosion was caused by a leak in the \().ring\ seals. Unsolved will be these questions: 1) Why did William Graham, NASA's acting administrator, not know about the heated dispute bet- ween the engineers at Morton Thiokol and other major NASA officials concerning the possibility of the seals' failure in the cold weather and, 2) When engineers, a year ago, questioned the seals of the rocket booster, why was anything not done? Needless to say, the shuttle took off in weather twenty degrees below any other previous launch. I understand the governmental pressure's involved, and the desires of the space program, but, if there are any chances of an \obvious major malfwction\ then why go ahead with the launch? I do not understand the reasons why secrets were. kept from major officials and I will go a step further and ask why the seals were used in the first place if there were possibilities of failure. Is the importance of the space shuttle mission worth the suspicions that our space program is now confronted with. Do not, however, misinterpret my interests. I am in favor of heavy defense spending to maintain levels of nuclear capability that preserve a balance of power, I am in favor of financing space experiments, as well as I am in favor of major multi-million dollar contracts to Lockheed and Rockwell International for future mil- itary and space develop- ments, but it is negligence, and stupidity in our programs, heavily financed by our tax dollars, that cannot be tolerated and should not be expected. My advice to NASA, and the engineers who design the equipment for the shuttle is that next time they should ponder over the possible consequences that could emerge from an unnecessary and unsuccessful launch. I hope there are no cases against NASA, or Thiokol, that charge them for some form of negligence, because it appears to me that they were in fact acting outside their obligations. The UnitedStates already lost the edge in the automotive industry, I would hate to see our next shuttle take off with an engine that says on its side, \MADE IN JAPAN\. IIJlllllllllllllJIIllllllllllilllllilllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllililllilllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllilllllllilllllllllllllllllillllllllllltlllilll~ = = I Freshman Writers I = = ~ The Van Orden Prize is for ~ = == == = = YOU = ~ = ~ . i = (Find Out More in Humanities 210) [§ inllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllt!llllllllllllilllltlillliliiiiJIIIJtlllttllltiJtlllltlltl,i I.E.F.DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the l·nternal Educ~tion Foundation in two categories--student-initiated rese<~rch projects and \educationally innovative projects\ and Faculty Research Grants is Friday, April 11. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (SlOO, Science & Engineering BUildiQ,9) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S100). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the - Dean's OHice. Inquiries abcut I.E .• F., the guidelines, or the proposat deadline should be directed to Dr. Ilene M. Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. Please specify if funds will be needed before June 20, 1986 or after. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the ~est rates available. Students who are ,planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangemeAts have already been made. Terrorism: An Act of ·War ' . By· BRIAN M. KELLY The response to terrorism engaged against the United States has be'en at the very most, inadequate._Aft;er the end of World War II, the United States has set a path for developing and third world countries to follow. This path was and still is a path of virtue, prosperity, equ~ity, and most of all, self fulfillment. The U.S. certainly does not have a \clean record\ but in a free society there is always room for corruption. We (the free world) have tried to subvert this corruption through the in- stitution of civil law. It certainly has not worked to its best degree, but at least it plays with the basic rules that have founded this free society. The laws in the U.S. are certainly not binding in other countries, but when those countries who do not abide by these laws in the international arena by threatening citizens of those countries which do, then it is not only our right, but our responsibility to take aggressive action against such a country that jeopardizes the credibility of the laws which bind society as a whole. The terrorist who fired on innocent bystanders in Rome and Vienna airports certainly constitute such a case of this breeching of International Law. According to the definition of aggression adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1974, that is the sending by or on the behalf of one state of armed groups to subvert the property or citizens of another state, the UN is requested to take action to conderrm that state which <!arried out the assault. The problem with these two recent <:ases in Rome and Vienna is that it is not certain which terrorist group was responsible and if they were \hired~' by a state. But, according to the latest intelligence reports both the Rome and Vienna incidents were the work of the PLO's most violent member group · called the Abu Nidal (named after its leader). The distinction here is that Abu Nidal operates from Libya. The Abu Nidal group .is reported to have received a cash handout of more than $11 million from none other than Colonel Qaddafi after last November's hijacking of the Egyptian Boeing that our U.S. FM14 successfully forced to land in the friendly country of Malta. The answer to this problem of terrorism is not easy. The U.S. basically has two possible solutions to the problem. The first one is that the U.S. takes the defensive approach by either waiting for another at- tack to occur and responding immediately like Reagan's tremendously successful decision to intercept the Egyptian airliner, or Carter's illfated response to rescue the American hostages which resulted in eight dead ser- vicemen and 52 unfreed hostages. The other answer in. solving the problem of terrorism is to take the of- fensive. The U.S. is equipped with one of the world's most extensive and informed secret service agencies (that is the CIA). Intelligence reports in- dicate that the most dangerous and internationally organized terrorist groups operate primarily out of Libya, Iran, and Syria. Since Abu Nidal's action can be traced directly to the Libyan government, then these recent acts of terrorism can be classified as an act of war against the United States. The proplem here is that it would be most difficult to persuade the UN to send forces into Libya, besides that woUld .severely hurt the efforts to maintain peace in the Middle · East (a primary goal of US foreign policy fu the Middle East). The only offensive alternative that the U.S., Israel, Great Britain, Federal Republic . of West Germany, France, Italy, Greece, Belgium, Netherlands, Austr'ia and any other Western. ELU\opeancountry that has been subject to targets by terrorists groups operating out of the Middle East has, is to send in special forces to eliminate the Abu Nidal terrorist organization. This act will set an example to all other terrorist groups that the Free World is determined to maintain law and ordel\ on its own soil It is our duty as citizens of the Free World to call upon our leaders and heads of state to take aggressive action to e;x:- terminate any and all in- dependent organizations that threaten the very freedom which our forefathers have fought and died to maintain for the future of mankind! It is about time that we hire a few 007's to take a paid vacation to visit Colonel Qaddafi and Abu Nidal in Tripoli. A second stop could be Tehran. I hear the weather is quite nice there this time of year. INUNION/DavidMarin The Time Has Come To Gel Once again Gel-Time has come to the surface as an issue facing the College community and for some reason a large! number of students are against the proposed schedule change. There is, however, a great deal of misconception as to what Gel· Time is and how it will affect students. A rather unfortunate view of the proposed change seems to be that it is an administration and-or faculty versus students issue, which it most certainly is not. It is a question rather of whether or not Gel-Time is a good idea. If it is, then students should not be turned off by the fact that faculty may be for it. If it is not, then faculty will be swayed by convincing and reasonable arguments by students on the merits of the proposal, not by whimpering and antagaonism. An argument that llas been brought to the fore recently is that with Carnegie and Alumni Gym gone, the raising of the drinking age, and a gt!heral detrioration of morale due to all of the changes around campus, now would be· a bad time to make a change in the class schedule. I fihd no merit in this argument. If Gel-Time is bad, it should never be , implementedt with or without a student center (I really don't see the relevance). If, on the other hand, Gel- Time is a welcome change, then why would putting it into effect during a time of change be a l)assle? It would perhaps be a welcome relief in a time of despair; It also seems rather absurd to suggest that it would be so traumatic to adjust to a new schedule, especially when class schedules change every 10 weeks anyway. I am personally for Gel-Time for several reasons that I tlti.nk appeal to most students. The most notable change is that there will be fewer class periods per week. Instead of four meetings per week, classes will meet two or three times. These meetings will not be considerably longer than our present classes. M-W-F classes will meet for 65 minutes and Tuesday-Thursday classes will meet for 100 minutes, actually ten minutes less than the current two-hour periods. Class time will be about the same (a little less actually) but with fewer meeting times, less time ffi wasted in the week getting ready for and walking to class and there wil\ be fewer in· terruptions to a person's weekly schedule, offering far more flexibility. And, though it is con- tradictory to the intent of Gel- Time, those who plan their classes around the best possible schedule will find they can have Tnesday and Thursday off or even have M-W-F completely off every week making for a four-day weekend. There are other benefits. If scheduled properly, most students will alternate every day between one and two classes. So rather than spending every night studying or reading f()r all three classes, students will be able to concentrate on just one or two. More time can be spent studying for a test without worrying about a problem set due in another class. The alternating days also allow for more concentrated time on papers or theses. For example, a student who had only one class on T-Th could spend Monday and Wednesday afternoons and evenings researching · or writing. . One other strong advantage of the Gel-Time schedule is the two-hour free period built into the Tuesday and Thursday schedules. During this time the school will be able to present speakers and hold functions that would normally be' scheduled for theeveningswhen students are often too involved in work and caimot attend. Whether you are for or against Gel-Time, there is one important thing to keep in mind. The decision will be .made by the faculty. The administration has at this point very little say in the matter. The way to have an influence on the vote is quite naturally to go to the voters, i.e., the faculty. Approach your professors and tell them if yon are for . or against ·Gel-Time and why. Contrary to popular belief many faculty actively seek student input and almost all are willing. to listen to it when it is reasoned and convincing. ,Letters to the Editors and Com- , 'mentarles. do not necessarily represent ,the opinions o.f the Editorial Board of Concordlensis. p E On fuse( readi the C whet SChe( answ adve1 the circu was 1 Th• disco scattl were form: this· i Cal nOUD4 Appa popul portt anyo1 ThE Sand Chris song~ Steve also Simor voice guita voice seem conte each Om was a was could bewi onm: find feel : Pal E Mo RPI' Alan It 1 prorr most pron Alar1 ffiOS( upbe. band a war urge1 impli show they band An~ prop1 eveni Out.i Ha· Pat own show from the F. tour ment perfo new, elude earlil concE of m1 rangi the~ Ber credi1 accla rock'~ form1 abilU repea perfol Son Best Dark

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 COMMENTARIES Negligence In Space By BOB KOCH Despite the fact that the Space Shuttle Challenger blew up about a month ago, and although I have not spoken to him, Rich Cavoli, whose project was destroyed with the Shuttle, will probably make another project or continue on to some other scientific endeavor, and so for all of us here at Union College, life went on. This was my attitude after the ca:lamity. I, of course, like millions of people worldwide, was shocked and horrified by the events that Tuesday mor- ning. I watched the news, saw the incident five hundred times, took my guess at the cause of the accident and thought NASA would never find out what really happened. After all, the flight had been cancelled time after time, so you would think every precaution had been taken. I was not that concerned with the lives of the families of the Challenger's crew because I ·•·as so involved with my daily routine of classes, lunch, and some exercise. My interest in the incident remained intact and passively observed. But now, spurred on by the investigations of the explosion, and the results thus far, some new concern has been revived. This interest of mine questions the credibility of our top of- ficials who are responsible for deciding whether or not the Ch.allenger should take off or not. I do not say the following statement to imply the disaster was humorous in any way, shape, or fashion, but I kind of have to laugh at what went on the night before the shuttle launch at Cape Canaveral. It is not the kind of laugh you get when you hear Eddie Murphy tell a joke, but the kind of un- fortunate laugh you have when, let us say, a punter misses the ball in a football game. Everyone is aware that the punter knows what he is doing, but after executing his job a million times before, he now looks like an idiot and will always be remembered in this light. It appears to me that in three weeks we will know that the explosion was caused by a leak in the \0-ring\ seals. Unsolved will be these questions: 1) Why did William Graham, NASA's acting administrator, not know about the heated dispute bet- ween the engineers at Morton Thiokol and other major NASA officials concerning the possibility of the seals' failure in the cold weather and, 2) When engineers, a year ago, questioned the seals of the rocket booster, why was anything not done? Needless to say, tbe shuttle took off in weather twenty degrees below any other previous launch. I understand the governmental pressure's involved, and the desires of the space program, but, if there are any chances of an \obvious major malfunction'', then why go ahead with the launch? I do not understand the reasons why secrets were kept from major officials and I will go a step further and ask why the seals were used in the first place if there were possibilities of failure. Is the importance of the space shuttle mission worth the suspicions that our space program is now confronted with. Do not, however, misinterpret my interests. I am in favor of heavy defense spending to maintain levels of nuclear capability that preserve a balance of power, I am in favor of financing space experiments, as well as I am in favor of major multi-million dollar contracts to Lockheed and Rockwell International for future mil- itary and space develop- ments, but it is negligence, and stupidity in our programs, heavily financed by our tax dollars, that cannot be tolerated and should not be expected. My advice to NASA, and the engineers who design the equipment for the shuttle is that next time they should ponder over the possible consequences that could emerge from an unnecessary and unsuccessful launch. I hope there are no cases against NASA, or Thiokol, that charge them for some form of negligence, because it appears to me that they were in fact acting outside their obligations. The United States already lost the edge in the automotive industry, I would hate to see our next shuttle take off with an engine that says on its side, \MADE IN JAPAN\. ~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIJ!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllilllllllllllllilllllllll~ I Freshman Writers ~ s ~ ; The Van Orden Prize is for i ~ = = YOU = = :;. == = = ;::;; == = ~ § § (FindOutMorein Humanities210) ~ !llllllllllllllllllllilllllilllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 1111111111111111111111111 '\''\lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillll , , \' 11111111111 a I.E.F.DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories--student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ and Faculty Research Grants is Friday, Aprilll. Proposals for student-initiated research projects mljst have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (5100, Science & Engineering Buildi!19) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office ( S 100). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Dr. Ilene M. Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. Please specify if funds will be needed before June 20, 1986 or after. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. Terrorism: An Act of War By BRIAN M. KElLY The response to terrorism engaged against the United States :has been at the very most, inadequate._After the end of World War II, the United States has set a path for developing and third world countries to follow. This. path was and still is a path of virtue, prosperity, equality, and most of aU, self fulfillment. The U.S. certainly does not have a \clean record\ but in a free society there is always roam for corruption. We (the free world) have tried to subvert this corruption through the in- stitution ofcivilla w. It certainly has not worked to its best degree, but at least it plays with the basic rules that have founded this free society. The laws in the U.S. are certainly not binding in other countries, but when those countries who do not abide by these laws in the international arena by threatening citizens of those countries which do, then it is not only our right, but our responsibility to take aggressive action against such a country that jeopardizes the credibility of the laws which bind society as a whole. The terrorist who fired on innocent bystanders in Rome and Vienna airports certainly constitute such a case of this breeching of International Law. According to the definition of aggression adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1974, that is the sending by or on the behalf of one state of armed groups to subvert the property or citizens of another state, the UN is requested to take action to candemn that state which carried out the ass·autt. The problem with these two recent cases in Rome and Vienna is that it is not certain which terrorist group was responsible and if they were \hired\ by a state. But, according to the latest intelligence reports both the Rome and Vienna incidents were the work of th.e PLO's most violent member group called the Abu Nidal {named after its leader). The distinction here is that Abu Nidal operates from Libya. The Abu Nidal group is re.ported to have received a cash handout of more than $11 miUion from none otherthan CelonelQaddafi after last November's hijacking of the Egyptian Boeing that our U.S. F-14 successfully forced to land in the friendly country of Malta. The answer to this problem of terrorism is not easy. The U.S. basically has two possible solutions to the problem. The first one is that the U.S. takes the defensive approach by either waiting for another at- tack to occur and responding immediately like Reagan's tremendously successful decision to intercept the Egyptian airliner, or Carter's illfated response to rescue the American hostages which resulted in eight dead ser- vicemen and 52 unfreed hostages. The other answer in solving the problem of terrorism is to take the of- fensive. The U.S. is equipped with one of the world's most extensive and informed secret service agencies (that is the CIA). Intelligence reports in- dicate that the most dangerous and internationally organized terrorist groups operate primarily out of Libya, Iran, and Syria. Since Abu Nidal's action can be traced directly to the Libyan govermn.ent, then these recent acts of terrorism can be classified as an act of war against the United States. The problem here is that it would be most difficult to persuade the UN to send forces into Libya, besides that would severely hurt the efforts to maintain peace in the Middle East (a primary goal of US foreign .policy in the Middle East). The only offensive alternative that the U.S., Israel, Great Britain, Federal Republic of West Germany, France, Italy, Greece, Belgium, Netherlands, Austria and any other Western European country that has been subject to targets by terrorists groups operating out of the Middle East bas, is to send in special forces to eliminate the Abu Nidal terrorist organization. This act will set an example to all other terrorist groups that the Free World is determined to maintain law and order on its own soil. It is our duty as citizens of the Free World to caH upon our leaders and heads of state to take aggressive action to ex- terminate any and all in- dependent organizations that threaten the very freedom which our forefathers have fought and died to maintain for the future of mankind! It is about time that we hire a few 007's to take a paid vacation to visit Colonel Qaddafi and Abu Nidal in Tripoli. A second stop could be Tehran. I hear the weather is quite nice there this time of year. INUNIONIDavidMarin The Time Has Come To Gel Once again Gel-Time has come to the surface as an issue facing the College community and for some reason a large! number of students are against the proposed schedule change. There is, however, a great deal of misconception as to what Gel- Time is and how it will affect students. A rather unfortunate view of the proposed change seems to be that it is an administration and-or faculty versus students issue, which it most certainly is not. It is a question rather of whether or not Gel-Time is a good idea. If it is, then students should not be turned off by the fact that faculty may be for it. If it is not, then faculty will be swayed by convincing and reasonable arguments by students on the merits of the proposal, not by whimpering and antagaonism. An argument that has been brought to the fore recently is that with Carnegie and Alumni Gym gone, the raising of the drinking age, and a geteral detrioration of morale due to all of the changes around campus, now would be a bad time to make a change in the class schedule. I find no merit in this argument. If Gel-Time is bad, it should never be implemented, with or without a student center (I really don't see the relevance). If, on the other hand, Gel- Time is a welcome change, then why would putting it into effect during a time of change be a hassle? It would perhaps be a welcome relief in a time of despair. It also seems rather absurd to suggest that it would be so traumatic to adjust to a new schedule, especially when class schedules change every 10 weeks anyway. I am personally for Gel-Time for several reasons that I think appeal to most students. The most notable change is that there will be fewer class periods per week. Instead of four meetings per week, classes will meet two or three times. These meetings will not be considerably longer than our present classes. M-W-F classes will meet for 65 minutes and Tuesday-Thursday classes will meet for 100 minutes, actually ten minutes less than the current two-hour periods. Class time will be about the same (a little less actually) but with fewer meeting times, less time is wasted in the week getting ready for and walking to class and there will be fewer in- terruptions to a person's weekly schedule, offering far more flexibility. And, though it is con- tradictory to the intent of Gel- Time, those who plan their classes around the best possible schedule will find they can have Tuesday and Thursday off or even have M-W-F completely off every week making for a four-day weekend. There are other benefits. If scheduled properly, most students will alternate every day between one and two classes. So rather than spending every night studying or reading for all three classes, students will be able to concentrate on just one or tw(). More time can be spent studying for a test without worrying about a problem set due in another class. The alternating days also allow for more concentrated time on papers or theses. For example, a student who had only one class on T-Th could spend Monday and Wednesday afternoons and evenings researching or writing. One other strong advantage of the Gel-Time schedule is the two-hour free period built into the Tuesday and Thursday schedules. During this time the school will be able to present speakers and hold functions that would normally be scheduled for theeveningswhen students are often too involved in work and cannot attend. Whether yoa are for or against Gel-Time, there is one important thing to keep in mind. The decision will be made by the faculty. The administration has at this point very little say in the matter. Tile way to have an influence on the vote is quite naturally to go to the voters, i.e., the faculty. Approach your professors and tell them if you are for or against Gel-Time and why. Contrary to popular belief many faculty actively seek student input and almost all are willing to listen to it when it is reasoned and convincing. Letters to the Editors and Com- mentaries do not necessarily represent the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensls. f .. r - I OJ fUSE rea( the WhE schE ans1 adVI the eire was Tl disc scat wer forn this now App pop1 porl any1 Tl San ChrJ son~ Ste-v also Sim< voic guit• voic seer cont eacl Or was was coul be \1 onn find feel Pa M RPl Ala1 It proJ mo~ pro Alai mof upb ban aw~ urg1 imp sho1 the3 ban An proJ eve1 Out H: Pat own shm fro11 the tour mer perf new clud earl con< of n ran~ the B{ cred accl, rock fom abil repe perf1 So Best Dar

• -CQNC.ORDIENSI~ -February 27, 1986 Page 13 People Found Out About It q By IL YSSE FEINGOLD On Thursday at 12:45, con- fused and bewildered after reading Concordy, I walked to the Old Chapel to inquire as to wheUter a cabaret was scheduled for this evening. The answer was yes, however no advertisement had appeared in the paper. Considering the circumstances the attendance was rather good. The performer$ were not discouraged or affected by the scattered seating: Their spirits were good and their per- formance vividly iilcorporated' thiS' radiant attitude. Cabaret began witlr an_ an- nouncement to· attract M.C.'s.' Apparently they are not in popular demand, so the op-- - portunity is available and anyone can be a candidate. The first act featured Steve Sanders with support from Chris Siler on the beginning songs. The duet opened with Steve~s original work. The pair also sang a beautiful Carly Simon-James Taylor duet. Their voices blended well and Steve~s guitar nicely accompanied the voices. These two performers seemed quite relaxed and content with themselves and each other on stage. · One of my favorites by Steve was an original love song which was so honest that everyone could relate to it. \I just want to be with you ... You're the one on my mind ... it's not often I find_ someone who . ,makes ... J;D.e. feel a.ll right.il Steve's finger picking was excellent. I sense another James Taylor protege. The second act of Cabaret was a much different tone from the mellow and sensitive Stevtl and guest Chris. A .band by the name of Sergeant Generals of Old with two guitars, one bass; drums and keyboard inspired the audience. Their plea for audience .participati-on was received well. It wa·s immensely en- tertaining to watch the lead singer dancing and dipping with the microphone. His · ap- pearance with his shirt opened to his belly button added to the image of ''rock star.\ One member of the audience commented, \He's going to get a chest cold,\ but I clearly understood and agreed that it achieved- the desired effect needed in conjunction With his dancing and pulsating. 'Pony did have many of the \rock star'' characteristics; he exemplffied traits such as fli,ppj.ng the head back and concluding a song with his arms raised. By concluding in this way he obtained a very defined ending to a piece of music and the applause was abundant. Quiet worth attention is Andy Lipman who regular Cabaret attenders would remember from this winter's first Cabaret in which he performed with Dave Provost. I was amazed at the diversity of Andy's talent. This guitarist and vocalist onverted from playing mellow music to plaYing rock. He also went thrg-ugh a character Pat Benatar appeared at B.P.I. Benatar Rocks By SHELLY PINO Monday, February 24, 1986. RPI's Houston Field House. The Alarm opened for Pat Benatar It was an event that held the promise of an energetic and most entertaining evening-the promise was fulfilled. The Alarm adequately set the at- mosphere with their lively and upbeat songs. The four man band's show demanded an awarertesswhile also lending an urgent ·tone, as their name implies. At one point _ in their show, the Alarm stated that they didn't feel like an opening band but as a main attraction. An encore produced an ap-- propriate final tune for the evening, it was entitled, \Going Out .in a ~laze of Glory.\ Having the stage been set, Pat Benatar contributed her own \blaze.\ She opened the show with \Red Vision,\ a song from her latest album \Seven the Hard Way\ (for which the tour was also named). Com- menting that she intended to. perform the old as well as the , new, Benatar's repertoire in- cluded songs from even her earliest albums. The entire concert was an appealing blend of music which included songs ranging from \In the Heart of the Night\ to bet most recent. Benatar's performance was a credit to her already critically acclaimed status as one of roek'.s foremost women per- formers. Her tremendous vocal abilities were witnessed repeatedly, particularly in her performance of ''Fire and Ice.'' . Songs like ''Hit Me with Your Best Shot,\ \Proinises in the Dark\ and \Invincible\ provided an intensity to which the audience actively respon- ded. The energy seemed to emanate from Benatar as well as her band, which was enhanced by a superb light show. Drummer Byron Grombacher was constantly in motion even dancing behind the drum set while still playing. Guitarist Neil Geraldo demonstrated his expense throughout each of his solos. In addition, a keyboard solo at ~he beginning of \Hell is for Children'' brought a rousing cry of approvaHrom the audience. Benatar obtained a fun-loving interaction with the audience throughout the concert. At one point, as a balloon drifted on- stage, Benatar nonchal~ntly punched it back to the crowd. Before singing ''Sex as a Weapon,\ Benatar paused saying that when she came to this point in the show, she was torn between two dedications: to all those having gone through \a miserable relationship\ or to all the advertisers who view the public as \dumb\ obviously in reference to advertiser's appeal to sex to sell their products. \Heartbreaker\ found the audience singing the chorus: while in an even more touching moment, Benatar mentioned the birth of her daughter, to whorn she dedicated ''Run Through the Raindrops.'' Benatar came back out for an . encore singing -one of her personal favorltes ·\Painted - Beast\ and subsequently picked up the tempo with the lively \Ooh Ooh Song.\ All in an, the almost two hour performance by Pat Benatar was an amazing experience for all who attended. transformation; from con- servative,. laid hack and rather reserved Andy of several weeks ago to the outgoing, confident and inspirational Andy of. now. He seemed much more at ease and one audience member remarked, \Hey this fr,eshman is really good! \ Their music of the Hooters, Talking Heads and Billy Idol sent vibrations through every part of the body. We felt it and they used every part of the body. The audience's favorite song seemed to be \Nights in White Satin.\ Another interesting and surprising part to the act was the guitar player's interaction with the audience. He played his solo from.a table top. \I can't even think that fast,\ seemed to be an accurate account of Steve's excellent, exciting and smooth guitar playing. These two cabaret acts were contrastingly different. Seeing these acts- juxtaposed just helps to demonstrate and reinforce the unique and special talent that we all have within our- selves. Attend the Panhellenic Cabaret, a week from today, where we will see new faces demonstrating their abilities. I Cabaret Presents The Biggest-Best Show of 8th Week Ac.t I Jeff Lawrence Act II The Other Side~ With a New M.C~ Sy Jenkins Don't Miss It!!! Tickets on sale for $1.50 at· Old Chapei Ticket booth tor tonights show at lO:OOP.M. THE ARTS •••••••••••••••••••• WRUC- ••• 7 fm STEIIIO • \'THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION• ••••••••••••••••••• It's The WRUC TOP 8.97! These were the albums that spent the most time in motion on WRUC's turntables this past week. For many people, just reading this listidng makes them want to dance. Are you part of this new generation of listeners? ... Remember to call WRUC at 37o-6151and request your favorite new music. You could affect the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist Album 1 Big Audio Dynamite- This is ... 2 Bangels-Different Light 3 Replacements-Tim 4 Midge Ure-The Gift 5 Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars 6 Simple Minds-Once Upon A Time 7 The Cult-Love 8 Dead Kennedys'-Franken Christ 8.97 Siouxsie & the Banshees-Cities in Dust Program Notes Label Last Week Columbia-! CBS-7 Sire--2 Chrysalis-R BigTime-4 A&M-3 Sire-R Alt.Tent.-R Geffen-R WRUC TRMA culminates this Sunday night. Don't miss it ... Tune in to 8.97 to win tickets to area shows at J.B.'s lheatre, Bogies, and Puttin' on the Ritz ... A track from each TOP 8.97 album is counted down every Wednesday night at 9 P.M. r -Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director •••••••••••••••••••• March 8, 9 7:00P.M. Performing Arts Studio Arts Building Free Admission Reception Following The Union College Dance Ensemble presents: Pieces in Progress

[ i i i r CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 Page 13 THE ARTS People Found Out About It •••••••••••••••••••• WRUC- By ILYSSE FEINGOLD On Thursday at 12:45, con- fused and bewildered after readrng Concordy, I walked to the Old Chapel to inquire as to whether a cabaret was scheduled for this evening. The answer was yes, however no advertisement had appeared in the paper. Considering the circumstances the attendance was rather good. The performers were not discouraged or affected by the scattered seating. Their SJ!lirits were good and their per- formance vividly incorp()rated this radiant attitude. Cabaret began with an an- Rouncement to attract M.C.'s. Apparently they are not in popular demand, so the op- portunity is available and any-one can be a candidate. The first act featured Steve Sanders with support from Chris Siler on the beginning songs. The duet opened with Steve's original work. The pair also sang a beautiful Carly Simon-James Taylor duet. Their voices blended well and Steve's guitar nicely accompanied the voices. These two performers seemed quite relaxed and content with themselves and each other on stage. One of my favorites by Steve was an original love song which was so honest that everyone could relate to it. \I just want to be with you ... You're the one on my mind ... it's not often I find someone who makes me feel all right.\ Steve's finger picking was excellent. I sense another James Taylor protege. The second act of Cabaret was a much different tone from the mellow and sensitive Stev~ and guest Chris. A band by the name of Sergeant Generals of Old with two guitars, one bass, drums aNd keyboard inspired the audience. Their plea for audience participation was received well. It was immensely en- tertaining to watch the lead singer dancing and dipping with the micraphone. His ap- pearance with his shirt opened to his belly button added to the image of \rock star.\ One member of the audience commented, ''He's going to get a chest cold,\ but I clearly understood and agreed that it achieved the desired effect needed in conjunction with his dancing and pulsating. T-ony did have many of the \rock star\ characteristics; he exemplified traits such as flipping the head back and concluding a song with his arms raised. By cancluding in this way he obtained a very defined ending to a piece of music and the applause was abundant. Quiet worth attention is Andy Lipman who regular Cabaret attenders would remember from this winter's first Cabaret in which he performed with Dave Provost. I was amazed at the diversity of Andy's talent. This guitarist and vocalist onverted from playing mellow music to playing r()ck. He also went throu·gh a character Pat Benatar appeared at R.P.I. Benatar Rocks By SHELLY PINO Monday, February 24, 1986. RPPsHouston Field House. The Alarm opened for Pat Benatar It was an event that held the promise of an energetic and most entertaining evening-the promise was fulfilled. The Alarm adequately set the at- mosphere with their lively and upbeat songs. The four man band's show demanded an awareness while also lending an urgent tone, as their name implies. At one point in their show, the Alarm stated that they didn't feel like an o~ning band but as a main attraction. An encore produced an ap- propriate final tune for the evening, it was entitled, \Going Out in a Blaze of Glory.'' Having the stage been set, Pat Benatar contributed her own \blaze.'' She opened the show with \Red Vision,\ a song from her latest album \Seven the Hard Way\ (for which the tou.r was also named). Com- menting that she intended to perform the old as well as the new, Benatar's repertoire in- cluded songs from even her earliest albums. The entire concert was an appealing blend of music which included songs ranging from \In the Heart of the Night\ to her most recent. Benatar's performance was a credit to her already critically acclaimed status as one of rock's foremost women per- formers. Her tremendous vocal abilities were witnessed repeatedly, particularly in her perf()rmance of ''Fire and Ice.'' Songs like ''Hit Me with Your Best Shot,\ \Promises in the Dark'' and \Invincible\ provided an intensity to which the audience actively respon- ded. The energy seemed to emanate from Benatar as well as her band, which was enhanced by a superb light show. Drummer Byron Grombacher was constantly in motion even dancing behind the drum set while still playing. Guitarist Neil Geraldo demonstrated his expense throughout each of his solos. In addition, a keyboard solo at the beginning of \Hell is for Children'' brought a rousing cry of approval from the audience. Benatar obtained a fun-loving interaction with the audience throughout the concert. At one point, as a balloon drifted on- stage, Benatar nonchalantly punched it back to the crowd. Before singing \Sex as a Weapon,\ Benatar paused saying that when she came to this point in the show, she was torn between two dedications: to all those having gone through \a miserable relationship\ or to all the advertisers who view the public as \dumb\ obviously in reference to advertiser's appeal to sex to sell their products. \Heartbreaker\ found the audience singing the chorus~ while in an even more touching moment, Benatar mentioned the birth of her daughter, to whom she dedicated \Run Through the Raindrops.\ Benatar came back out for an encore singing one of her personal favorites \Painted Beast\ and subsequently picked up the temP<J with the lively \Ooh Ooh Song.\ All in all, the almost two hour performance by Pat Benatar was an amazing experience for all who attended. transformatien; from con- servative, laid back and rather reserved Andy of several weeks ago to the outgoing, confident and inspirational Andy of. now. He seemed much more at ease and one audience member remarked, ''Hey, this freshman is really good!\ Their music of the Hooters, Talking Heads and Billy Idol sent vibrations through every part of the body. We felt it and they used every part of the body. The audience's favorite song seemed to be \Nights in White Satin.'' Another interesting and surprising part to the act was the guitar Jillayer's interaction with the audience. He played his solo from a table tep. \I can't even think that fast,\ seemed to be an accurate account of Steve's excellent, exciting and smooth guitar playing. These two cabaret acts were contrastingly different. Seeing these acts juxtaposed just helps to demonstrate and reinforce the unique and special talent that we aU have within our- selves. Attend the Panhellenic Cabaret, a week from today, where we will see new faces demonstrating their abilities. Ct.7 fm ST£111:0 • •ntE FIRST STATION IN THE: NATION• ••••••••••••••••••• It's The WRUC TOP 8;97! These were the albums that spent the most time in motion on WRUC's turntables this past week. For many people, just reading this listidng makes them want to dance. Are you part of this new generation of listeners? ... Remember to call WRUC at 370-6151and request your favorite new music. You ceuld affect the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist Album 1 Big Audio Dynamite- This is ... 2 Bangels-Different Light 3 Replacements- Tim 4 Midge Ure-The Gift 5 Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars 6 Simple Minds-Once Upon A Time 7 The Cult-Love 8 Dead Kennedys-Franken Christ 8. 97 Siouxsie & the Banshees-Cities in Dust Program Notes Label Last Week Columbia-1 CBS-7 Sire-2 Chrysalis-R BigTime-4 A&M-3 Sire-R Alt.Tent.-R Geffen-R WRUC TRIVIA culminates this Sunday night. Don't miss it ... Tune in to 8.97 to win tickets to area shows at J.B.'s theatre, Bogies, and Puttin' on the Ritz ... A track from each TOP 8.97 album is counted down every Wednesday night at 9 P.M. r -Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director •••••••••••••••••••• ············~··························~·················································· & • ~- This Week's Events ! • • : Feb. 27-0n Campus-\House of Bernarda Alba.'t Drama abou.t women in Spain. Nott : : · . MemorialS p.m. : : Feb}2fh.Oii Camptis..C~baret ·with Jeff Lawrence lO p.m. : : Off Campus-Grace Woodworth: Outside Common Lines exhibit of Adirondack events. New : : YorkStateMus~umthruMay13. : : Off Campus-The New Mummenschantz. Proctor,s Theatre a p.m. : : Off Campus-Maggl~ and Me-written and performed by J}ldY Wyle. Skidmore TheatreS p.m. : : March 1-0n Campus-Panhelleni~ Cabaret. Old Chapel Dining R~orn ~p.m. . , . : : Off Campus-National Pig Day. Take a break from your thesiS. Listen to children s ptg tales. : : Albany Publie Library. Free. : : March 2-0n Campm~-Late:Nlte Bites Jam Sessions. Hale Bouse 9:3{} p.m. : • Off campus-Berkshire Ballet Concert. Foy Campus Center Siena College 2 p.m. • : March 3-Qn Ca:mpus- .. Treatment of Child Sexual Abuse.H Union College Psychology Club : : ' Lecture. Guest speaker Ms. PatriciaFoscato. Psych.113 4:30p.m. : : On Campus-Ra~hel Banns llancer/Choreographer spons'Ored by G.E. Arts Building, Per~ : : formillgArtsStudioBp.m. : : Off Ciunpus-University Jazz Ensemble and Symphonic Band. SUNY Albany Performing Arts : : Center B p.m. Free. : : March 4-0n Campus-speakers Forum. :Memorial ChapelS p.m. : : On Campus-Late Nit~ Bites Jam Session. Hale House 9:30p.m. : : Off Campus....Spring Film ~ries-Musicals of 192Q..60's. Troy Public Library. Free. : : On T.V.-Berkshire Mountains Bluegrass Festival Special. WMHT Channel17. 16-12 p.m. : : March 5-Qn Campus-staff Choral Singing, Memorial Chapel12-1 p.m. i : Off Campus-First stage--The Play of !he Month. Informal Reading. ESIPA at the Egg. Empire : i State Plaza .Albany 7:30p.m. : • On T.V.-a OO's Folk!Roek Reunion. WMHT Channel17l0 p~m. • . . . . . . . . . . ·. . . . . .............................................................................................. Cabaret Presents The Biggest-Best Show of 8th Week Act I Jeff Lawrence Act II The Other Sides With a New M.C. Sy Jenkins Don't Miss ltll! Tickets on sale for $1.50 at Old Chapel Ticket booth for tonights show at 10:00 P.M. HlllgUIIIIIMIIIIIIIllfi4IIIIIIPIIII\IJIIIIIQUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIjllliiiiUIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUr 'lllllllllllllitiiiiUIUIIHIIIIIIIII March 8, 9 7:00 P.M. Performing Arts Studio Arts Building Free Admission Reception Following The Union College Dance Ensemble presents: Pieces in Progress ................ _...,...., .......... ._,, .... ,.,.\•ililtnl•iiltt

. Page 14 CONCORJJJENSJS, February 27, 1986 SCHOLARSHIPS. FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS Engineering, Computer . Science, Applied Mathematics and Physics. Fellows will study at a nearby school and gain summer and winter work ex- have also been several requests equipment, etc. Avilable at end foroneononeforbothMathand - ofwinterterm. Asking$40. Call PERSONALS Reading. Jan at x6867. ======= The New York State Education Department's Center for Learning Technologies offers internship programs for May .. June. Internships are available in the areas of Planning and Development, Telecommunications, Techn- ology, Staff Development, Video Production, Media Distribution and Field Services. The Devereux Foundation offers Mental Health Traineeships for graduate students and externships for undergraduates. Knowledge of s ta ti s ti c s , r e s e a r c h methodology and computer technology would be helpful. Students must be at least 21 years of age, with academic base in psychology. The College of 'Saint Rose needs two graduate student interns in the area of Sports Information for next semester. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has internships available for Winter and Spring terms of 1986. Positions are available in the divisions of Political, Finance, Press and Research. Schiller International University offers students the chance to study in Europe for a semester or a summer. Programs are available in London, Paris, Heidelberg, Madrid, Strassbourg and Greece. English is taught at all centers. . perience at Hughes. Martmount College Tarrytown offers summer in- . ternships for aH majors. Placements can be made in museums, banks and law firms among others. A minimum GPA · of 2.5 .is required. CLUBNE,WS The Union College Psychology Club in conjunction with the members of Psi' Chi are · pro~d to be hosting Ms. Patricia Fo&c~to ~s a. gu,e.st spealt~r of a colloquium series on clinical topics. Please ·join us for Ms. Foscato's lecture, \Treatment of Child Sexual AbUse,\ on Monday, March 3, at 4.:30 p.m. The lecture will be held in room 113 of the psychology building. Newman Club Activities Trip to Proctor's-Friday, February 28 to see \The New Mummenschanz.\ Any Union student who wishes to join a group meet at Old Chapel Plaza at 7: 15 p.m. We will pick up naif · price tickets for $7, $6, or $4. Newman Meeting & Social- The last Newman Club meeting for the Winter Term will take place Monday, March 3rd at 8 p.m. in second floor Conference . Room of Whitaker House. Come and help plan Spring Activities. Please use rear door. Confirmation-students who wish to be confirmed April 27 · will have two classes during Winter Tenn beginning with the week of March 3 and three at the beginning of Spring Term. Sister Joan is in the proeess ·Of finalizing the day and time and will be in touch with you. WRUCTRIVIA Get your typing done on campus. No project too small. Term papers, th.eses, reswnes. Call .Sally at 382•933.0. Cheape~ rates on campus. Professional Typing-Bus- 'iness teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time, 39946S6. ' The Official WRUC Trivia TYPING: Top quality, Scoreboard: reasonable rates. Call Marion Fraterriity..Sorority--ZBT: 31, 399-0165. Phi Sig:28, DG:5 Dorms--Fox:16, ·South:7, Earn $30 to $l'i0 per day, Richmond:4, Davidson:2, working 1-2 days per week, We .bster 2 Ht'ck ·k 1 _a .. ~- isting. stu<te.nts -~~.PIYJll. g for : ' 0 ,: ' ,• - . . .ll' 8 Independents--B 0 b: 43, . credit cards. Call1-800-932-052 . Bonedoggers:lO, Busch Bud- . dies:lo·, Koo Stark Fan Club:7, SPRING BREAK '86 party in Bacchus:7, Horkers:4, 2 Lonely · F.ort Lauderdale. Trips include · Guys ... :3, Amber Royalty:2, seven nights accommodations, Northerners:2, Floundering , all taxes and gratuities, Shrimp Toast: l, 211: 1, poolside party at Summers, Brown:l, Naresh' Parish:l, daily happy hours, Hawaiian Freshman:l, 209:1, Consortium Tropic parties, round-trip jet to Abolish · the Screeches of and more!! Yoko Ono: 1 · Student Travel Services 1-800- 11 Stumpers, 3 Protests, 5 648-4875 bonus points equals 205 points total SPRING BREAK '86 Relax in This week's bonus question Nassau, Bahamas. Trips in- is: On Nov. 8,1970, New Orleans elude rotmdtrip jet, transfers, Tom Demp_sey kicked the seven nights accommodations, longest field goal in NFL parties, free cruise, all taxes history, 63 yards to beat the and more!!! $369pp. complete. Detroit Lions 19-17. Who held for Student Travel Services 1-800- the placekick and who was the 648-4875. center on the same play? . CLASSJF/EDS ' Academy Student Film Awards Competition The fihn committee presents: Feb. 28-Mar. 2-Cocoon at 7, 9, 11 March 4-8ilent Movie at 7, 9, 11. Tickets are available at the Old Chapel for $1. Jules- I hope today is as special for you as it was for me. Only 15 more days! -You know who Little birdy-- Takes one to know one! -T·inY Anders, Happy Anniversary! It's hard to believe that \Raiders\ was 3 years ago. I'll , never forget the white shelf, Disneyworld, W. Place, TNT & You! Love you ,Always,.. The· one after April. DWOG- Forget the Poconos-let's do it in the express tenninal room. HexySug · Tridda- 1 LEAN YOU! -Rob Robin and Astrid- What CHA pointin' at? BARBRA STREISAND-- A Star is Born! Well, tnat is of course if you promise not to .sing! Good luck! Colleen Quinn- Can I borrow the black slip you wore to the formal? Kathy Taylor- . •' ·was· tMt your am they found under the table· at the Holiday Inn. RAMBOZO- Have you qualified for \scam .. master\ of the universe yet? A local FM commercial radio station has an internship available for the right person. Intern would work directly with radio announcer-assisting in areas of request line music, etc. Early morning schedule- ~exible hours. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences announced today that April 1, 1986 marks the deadline for the 13th . Annual Student Film Awards competition, open to all ·students at accredited U.S. colleges, universities, art and film schools. r~~~~.q,~~~<QI<Q'I<QI~~~~~ ·l Typing by Cheryl i Camp New Horizons is a summer program for children with learning disabilities and related behaviorial and developmental concerns. They are seeking employees who are committed and can promote group effort and cooperation. The National Trust for Historic Preservation offers museum and historic preser- vation internships. The positions are volunteer and academic credit is available. The application deadline for summer is March 31, 1986. Hughes ·Aircraft offers .. fellowships for qualified students in the study of ~~~<Q'>rQ!tQ><Q ~ Anyone Interested § § In Volunteering § § for § § televised ~ ~ Easter Seal ~ i § tel.ethon at § the Americana ~ Inn On ~ § ~arch 8 § ~· Please contact Seth § L at § - 374 .. 1994 j ~t.Q'>t.Q'><Q><Q><QIIQI<Q'at.Q'> RJndergarten )Udes--~one interested in assisting one hour a week at St. John's School please contact Tina Sciocchetti, 370-2275 who is coordinating this project. Tutors for Math & Reading~ Anyone interested in assisting Computer Math Students at St. John's T, Th, F, please contact Liz Karazim 370-6511. There Infohnation is available by contacting Ms. JoAnn HaDley in Astoria, New York at (718) 784- _4520. FOR SALE: Five-shelf book- case, perfect for dorm room, apartment, etc. Willi hold small stereo, books, t.v., kitchen Al\d ~ l-0t ~ i!FP61Ei12.? Studel'l~ OY.e (or--ut::t +o . I. ~,-, ~rove/ a1 a l/f.G:II1)~y cf ~f! ) (11~ Art/ wWt reifjo¥~/~~ ~ 'ole Yw? . § . § ~ 75( page ~ t 399-7614 t .r;;.tQ><Q>~.q,~..q.<Q'>rql,q.~<.o->~<QI<QI~<QI<.O'><QI<QI~.q.< (}~: /Jilt t('~ /e4lll ir! >r...JA<I> ·.::- './ '-\ •\llr'\ ·'\ - - 1 a~ Pl M M Oil GJ DE s~ at in· dr ca D1 it M Sa Dt fo1 ye m Bt po efJ M L< st1 ml ni~ on Is sh ~ ch tb F1 II

g b CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 P~.l5 r ·: T, M & L: PERSONALS · Thanks for the watermelons! =======:::;:::=:;::;:. _;:::;.:;:. :2;_ I love you! DWOG et al: We should all get Blotto'd again sometime. Sink JEFF LAWRENCE FOR PRESIDENT!!.! . To (I hope) a sister someday, Deb THETA DELTA CHI-,tuck- ins-..sign up on Friday, i-28 duti,ng lunch and dinner at West and Old Chapel. SURPRISE a fri~nd! Proceeds 'benefit American Cancer Society. Tense? Don't be, Virginia will vacuum with you. And it's cheaper than a shrink. C.P.- Union: We love you. Find out if ' you love us. We put out our best from 4-6 tomorrow on WRUC. John&Mick . · Mark C---8orry I embarrassed you Saturday night--\Happy Birthday to me .... \ ---schnapps . says hi to Beeje! ! For all you women suffering from p-envy, don't despair! · Just call x676l and ask for Bob- cheap rates and {sorry) person · attached. D.A.D. Inc. A TOAST-To Many More Marvelous Memories (MM & MM) and to the best times of our lives--term abroad' in Greece, junior year. The girl next door Swee~eart. Two is clearly company but tell nte does \3\ make it a · crowd? Pi Mu Sigmas-Please come to the 2nd -anti-social-wear ·ugly clothes, color your hair, watch MTV-Let.terman-50's T.V. shows, and ignore your friends. What a night! · The beaches and sand dunes at South Yarmoutb sound so inviting at sunset and dawn. I dream about it always. When can we go?! · Fear of Balls? WeU ... cueballs anyway. DWOG- , Stel Od T1 Sdrawkcab! ! Evol DyslexySue Way to go team Bob! Let's do it up next week. MAH Limbo Howie I hear wedding bells! See you Sat. - -KBH Dear Babs and Buzzy, Thanks for Sat. night!! How much is a membership in the DDC? llh years apart was too lon.g, I missed you. Love an ex-8mithie Brad, Do you think it may be possible that it is 200 percent effective? I think the sun in Miami has affected your brain! Love, Your O.B.G.,Y.N. students Gwen, What would we do without my mom? Is she great or what? It's nice to have two best friends- one here and one in Rhode Island ... Thanks! Love, Your shoulder to cry on _ GG, Can't wait for that bottle of champagne chilling--it will be the best anniversary! Love you! FF FUZZ DUCKY! (does he?) Now tbat you have waited a week, how sore are you? · My-father's a mason, a mason, . a mason A mighty fine mason is he All day long he lays bricks, he lays bricks And when he comes home he ... _ PLAYS RUGBY! ! Cath and Ang- The trefoil hotline call 1-800.TRE-FOIL. Gill, So when's dinner? How 'bout this weekend? Thanks .for · waking me up. It's time I finally saw the light. Cris Meat Cleaver Lady- If I make room in my suit- case, will you come with me? I'm sure CVS wouldn't mind if you didn't start working im- . mediately after you graduate. . Pam~,.,;;·~· ... · .. ~r- P-~~ .. ~ __ -~ ... ~ ·. I miss seeing you in class every day! We'll have to try for next fall-Advanced Diff. Eq., maybe?!? REAliTY SUCKS! let's go back to fantasy land · It's amazing wha~ you can do · with an ice cream cone. What do you do with a cucumber? Notice I didn't use any names. You keep my secrets and I'll keep yours. To the members of Choir Drunk Club: · Last weekend was more fun than mere mortals ought to be allowed to have. Can't wait until next time. I love you guys. WB Light blue or gray? which color . are they today? Introaucing ••• 'ila~ . - TeaGRooni. Cand~· GifttS Gourmet Specialties 518·393· 5592 A Country French Gourmet Foofk Candy and Gift Store • .. Featuring: Snacks, 1 o% discount Baked Goods, Naturai90soda for Gourmet Pizzas sausage bread Union College dips. Students the list is endless including a birthday cake for Someone Special \ ·-·-··'-· ~~..;...;;;.:;~;;.;..._ _ _.. ______ _. Debbie: You wanted one, so here it ist \The house is blue, snQw is · white, and .... \ \In the - where I was -.\ \Hey hey, we're the -, yes we-\! Personal enough? MIKE: ''How can rockstars see backstage when they are on drugs?'' Something like that ... Maybe it's because \beer is very, very much like ... ?\ I forgot! ++D To the Skating Dutchmen- Congratulations on a strong finish to the 85-86 regular season. Get psyched for playoffs ... Freeze the Great Lakers ... We're with you all the way!! J.K. &J.B. To _J.K.-Congratulat.ions on your joq Qff~r· I am. so' pleased that you 'have such a, tet·rific future to look forward to. Remember to save time for hockey games. We're there! ! J.B. To My Bodyguard-Thanks for being such a good listener last week. You really helped me out. Don't stress out too much in the next few weeks. Life should be fun not just a lot of hard work. -The Skating Goddess- Hang in there pledges! We love you! Get psyched to see Andrea in the play and for the Phi Delta Party after! ! Go-Nad and Pinky: -The caveman is evolving. -The crown jewels have been stolen. -The heart foundation is closing next week. If you want things to be like they used to, you must throw a punch party the first Tuesday of next term!! Richie-RichandKitty (Meow) · Hey Homo's Nice going. DWOG-Haven't you received enough personals yet? Hey roomie! Is the window open again? (Where is that air freshener?? ) How 'bout that Hooters con- cert?!! (By the way-what was that first song they played?) Hey Hosehead, Happy birthday. I'll take a claw over sliced beets any day. Sig I been HIP-MOW- TIZED!!!! We're scamming, we're scammihg ... will the next three candidates please step up? ... Don't you like scattlining too? S~xy S. Imposters- To my Not-So-Secret Thanks for entertaining Dwog · Admirer, THANX, Di during my 3-week absence. I · can take over now! Jay Boles (scam-master)- _:The Authentic SexyS. I didn't mean to light your hair on fire .. Don't believe me? 16 weeks until Europe and Then you're PIGGED! $62,500! --Mr. Nice Guy \Snuff\ needs a Vermont Teddy Bear! Please Win one for me, Daddy. SAY NO TO GEL-TIME!! SAY NO TO GEL-TIME!! SAY NO TO GEL-TIME FOR YOUR SAKE AND MINE! Do you . want material to GEL inside your head!! If not tell your Profs. Don't let Gel-Time happen to you! Hazers, Liars, and Wimps all in one house! What would your mothers say? TEACHERS please don't let Gel-Time happen. We don't want our minds to Gel! ! Some concerned students S T U D E N T S, tell your :cachers if you don't want Gel- Time. We have no power to vote on .it although we opposed it 8: 1 last year. Some call that a travesty, but Ferdinand Marcos likes it! Secret Admirer- Thank you very much! But if you are sincere, who are you? At least a hint? KL How do I know if he really loves me? ... I fall in love with every heartbeat .... I'm asking you because you know about these things .. ha, ha, ha, bee, he e ... I know, I know, what a goofy laugh! To the infamous 3:30 a.m. caller, find' someone else to scratch your head. We're through wasting our time. PISSED?!?!?! Love always and forever, C&A This track official loved dancing with a cohort. Did the DJ like watching just as much? PISSED?!?! TEACHERS-Please say no to Gel-Time!!!! We students don't want it! Blummer- What time was that backrub? Remember-on command! Who else! Thanks to all of the \talent\ and those smart enough to come ·see it. You made the Davidson · show great! ! -The Davidson RA's Go DIPPIKILERS! ! Never say die Jill, Thanks for being there! Love, LA Schwule sind doch besser a1s Fleischklopset Ein Fotograf MO, Stress, what stress? F equals $3000 but 2F equals summer vacation Heh Heh yourself Colleen Q CHI PSI was great! That was you, wasn't it? Or have you forgotten?! -M2 Doc- Thanks for being a great date-sorry I wasn't one. FRAI~E-Cinq cinq cinq-Kiwi C.Q. I hope that you didn't bump your head too hard on my loft Saturday morning. -Your tall man Kris & Georgia- ohooawhaa! BEWARE! The worst is yet to come. Sole Dog, b Did that guy ever return your bra? Aar- Talbot-duzint-play but i do 1 Thanks for letting me in bflo. the other A Heidi, Happy Birthday Sister Hope your 22nd B-day (or is it your 5lhth?) is the best! With Love, Heather Intrigued Acquaintance, Just wanted to tell you how much I appreciated the rose. Thank you. DWOG- Curious (Todd) Let's do it yoga style! FlexySue HAPPY BIRTHDAY HEIDI!! Love You and Miss You Lots. Mom, Dad, and Muffin Kitten- Want a SURPRISE? · Remember, anytime after 6 p.m. ! I love you .. Is your POOPY droopy? Is your PACKER slacker? Don't fret, not yet! Not until you've tried our MUFFINs cooked by the heat of our famous SEXpot! for just ·one PENNY, your life might be changed. Hey FELCH QUEEN! · · Really, it seemed quite funny at the time ... P .S. Thanks for the wake up · call. A. I didn't know and you didn't I'm so glad we're friends! say. Well, look who's laughing Imagine, two people actually now. Hey Pal, let's keep it up. like Phil Collins, Journey, Hugs, your cohort Carole King, J. T. and Billy P.S. Call WHENEVER!!! Joel...Something is definitely MarySoley- Your inter-sorority-dress loan has expired. Can I have mine back? That it is before KT has it ripped! Big Man- What was it Freud said about unicorns-? What was all that meowing coming from your ro()m last night? -Mental wrong! Love, A LATE AT NIGHT (2:30 am), Keys rattle -Knock Knock, Climb out of bed ... You better take me! ! Are we crazy or what?? Eric and Ray, Thanks for the entertainment. Hope I see y'all around again, Di

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 the difference is ..• .•. your kind of place ·union College Speakers. forum P·resen.ts Phyllis Schlafly Tuesday, March 4, 1986 Memorial Che~pel g • .. the difference ia>exciting gi.fts .• . the difference iv distinctive cards and stationery The Changing Roles of Men · . and Women in today's Society Tickets-Free Pick them up at .the Old Chapel Box Office .. . the difference is your kind of clothes at a discount ••• the difference is minutes from campus AHention Students: the di}Jerence is corner of Liberty and South Ferry Streets Schenectady. Casino Night Is Coming!! · When: Friday, March 7 Try Your Luck At: A~~:~:~~~=:~ 0 8 ~~::it Visa- Mastercard 382·7600 Hours Mon.-Fri. 10:00-5:30 Sat. 10:00-5:00 10:00 P.M.-1 :00 A.M. Blackjack Where: Over/Under Sponsored by: SOcial Alternatives Comm. West College Dining Hall Money Wheels Social Comm. West College Dorm '{\\\S . Phi Sigma Kappa • \YolL1 ~'' ~\ Of Union College \~ o1\~ ;i\Cl\.\ Presents: ··l'~~~ . SPRING BREAK ~ WfT PARTY DRY . \\t rt'Ol\lt' Thursday Nite, FEBRUARY 27th ). AT 9:00 J1 ~ JP) ~ 0 ~ • . Verse# 1 '' ... Whe.re lived a ,country boy narned John~y B; Goode, He never ever ]earned to read or write so well, But he could play the guitar just !ike ringing a bell. Go, Go, Go Johnny Go, Go ... \ \_ Question# 2 ON \VESTERN AVE., ALBANY Where does one find a jukebox filled with musk that Rolling Stone Magazine describes as \Propulsive ... a major force for cultural and social change,? -or- For All Area College Students Skidmore Alb any St. Union ST. Rose Russel Sage Siena $4.00Cover $3.00 w/lnvifation-Bring in this Ad Where can you hear Chuck Berry, Dire Straits and B. Springsteen for a quarter? The Skellar Raging with the jukebox every night of the week. PIZZA 374-4332 FAST I HOT I FREE DELIVERY Now Open Late for Your Convenience. . - Wednesday thru Saturday till :OOa.m. Serving the BEST PIZZA at the BEST PRICE! Free 32 oz. Soda with any order over $5.00 on Sunday nights 151 Pll * . St. C in 3: Doc I lishe schc stud New cif qt

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, February 27, 1986 the difference is .•. ... your kind of place .. . the difference is exciting gifts . ,. .the difference is disnnctive cards and stationery .. . the difference is your kind of clothes at a discount .. . the difference is mi:nut,es from campus the difference is corner of Liberty and South Ferry Streets Schenectady. Visa- Mastercard 382-7600 Hours Mon.-Fri. 10:00-5:30 Sat. 10:00-5:00 r-{\t\S Phi Sigma Kappa . ~O~r ~· ~ or Union College ~v~~~cs SPRINGe'B'REAK ~ \T PARTY DPY Union College Speakers Forum Presents Tuesday, March 4, 1986 Memorial Chapel PhyHis Schlafly The Changing Roles of Men and Women in today' s Society Tickets-Free Pick them up at the Old Cha,pel Box Office Attention Students: Casino Night Is Coming!! When: . ,.., v L k A All Proceeds to Benefit . Fnday, March 7 .~.ry .~.our uc t: Schenectady BB/BS 10:00 P.M.-1 :00 A.M. Blackjack Where: Over/Under Sponsored by: Social Alternatives Comm. Social Comm. West College Dorr:n West College Dining Hall Money Wheels .. ••• Verse# 1 \ ... Where lived a country boy named Johnny B. Goode, He never ever learned to read or write so well, But he could play the guitar just like ringing a bell. Go, Go, Go Johnny Go, Go ... \ . \\\ fi'O\'\~~ Thursday Nite, FEBRUARY 27th ). AT Question# 2 9:00 &J~Q 0 ~ ON \VESTERN AVE., ALBANY For All Area College Students Skidmore Albany St. Union ST. Rose Russel Sage Siena $4.00 Cover $3.00 w/1 nvitation-Bring in this Ad Where does one find a jukebox filled with music that Rolling Stone Magazine describes as \Propulsive ... a major force for cultural and social change\? -or- Where can you hear Chuck Berry, Dire Straits and B. Springsteen for a quarter? The SkeHar Raging with the jukebox every night of the week. PIZZA 374-4332 FAST I HOT I FREE DELIVERY Now Open Late for Your Convenience. Wednesday thru Saturday till :OOa.m. Serving the BEST PIZZA at the BEST PRICE! Free 32 oz. Soda with any order over $5.00 on Sunday nights - 'L. F § § § § § I § § § L 15 Pl. * St. in Do list set stu Ne

CONCORDIENSIS, Jiehruary27, 19B6 Page 17 ,. ' .,. --- ---. . r\'~.oiCOO\\..b-..o\\..I\.#'.,~..;COO\\~~ 1 Mand_ •.: _tory M. en_ 's · 1 § R·bM. I 1 · ug y . . .eet1ng 1 § M· ·. · d· · M · .h 3 § 1 on ay, arc . 1 1 4:30p.m. in I L.a!~ DeAngelo's Ristorante 1510 Crysler Ave. 393-4512 PIZZA {8, 12, 24 cut) HOT & COLD SUBS . DINNERS (Steak, Lasagna) APPETIZERS (Wings, Salad) * $1 Off on ·Pizza · *Free_ Delivery * Wehonor Major Credit Cards Qtunrnrbitnsis SPORTS Crew team practices on the Mohawk ERG Challenge to Begin Next Week . By TED EVELETH The Union College Rowing Association is sponsoring its annual Erg Challenge from 12:30 a.m. Friday, February 29 to Sunday, March 2 in the Skellar. This y~ar the event proniises to be bigger than ever. The Erg Challenge is run on the principle that ·for every dollar collected the crew will . row a mile: The rowing will be done. on an ergometer, rowing machine, on a continuous basis keeping the wheel of the ergometer spinning. Mayor Starts Challenge This year the crew is in- volving members of the college and Schenectady community. The Mayor of Schenectady Karen Johnson will be officially starting the Erg Challenge at 12:30 on Friday. President Morris may not be able to row because of illness. The deans, faculty, student forum, and other groups and individuals on campus __have been invited to US Department-of Health & Human Servtces row. The faculty were asked to form teams by department possibly providing a little friendly competition. The crew is trying to raise money both for its spring trip to the Oakfield, Tennessee area, and its spring racing season which includes the President's Cup regatta and the Dad Vail regatta. Students should feel free to stop by the Skellar during this time. The crew would like to thank you for your sponsorship. on deli-veries too! · . . . . . - . - ....... ----· ---. -· -:\' -·- .... - ............. . --- TEST ST. GEORGE'S UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE· GRENADA. WEST INDIES · St. George's University School of Medicine,. with more than 975 graduates licensed in 33 states, offers a rigorous, nine-semester program leading to the .degree of Doctor of Medicine. In January 198p, The .Journal of the American Medical _Association pub- lished a report which ranked St. George's number one of all major foreign medical schools in .the initial pass rate on the ECFMG Exam. · 70 medical schools In the United States have accepted over 630 St. George's students with advanced standing. · . St. George's has received probationary approval to cqnduct clinical clerksbips in New Jersey subject to regulations of the State Board of Examiners. ... . A Loan Pro~rar:n for Entering Students has been instituted for a limited number of qualified applicants. · For information, please contact the Office of Admissions: St. <:;eorge's University School of Medicine % The Foreign Medical School Services Corporation One East Main Street, Bl!Y Shore, N.Y. 11706j'Dept. C-1 (516} 665·8500 THIS IS IT! PICK UP YOUR COPY . OF THE UNION . LAMPOONE FROM BILL & JED THE FRIENDLY OOIDS FRIDAY AT HALE AT WEST ·vouR KNOWLEDGE. . .. ' ~ \ .. ~ ~· '\,.' ~ # --~ ~ . Q: How many of the people who died of lung cancer last year were smokers? A.25% 8.40% c. 60% 0.80% QUITTING. IT COUlD BE 'THE TEST OF YOUR LIFE. '%09 Uelj)8JOW S,li'O Saturday 7:00P.M. W.R.U.C. 89.7 Presents E.C.A.C. Division II West Playoffs Union at Oswego Sportsline Sunday 11 : 15 After Trivia With Bob Koch, Charlie Slotnik, and Tom Coleman

CONCO!lDIENSJS, February 21,1986 Page 17 Middtebt:~ry 2 . BASKETBALL (12-12) · L.eMeY:neiO ··· . UN ION 68 ' - ''·- ,, - - -'-' ,:.. ... MEN'SSWlMMIN'G · .;JM0 1 k>art:66:,, ·· · \' . · · · tJNIQ;~'''44 DeAngelo's Ristorante 1510 Crysler Ave.. 393-4512 PIZZA (8, 12, 24 cut) HOT & COLD SUBS DINNERS (Steak, Lasagna) APPETIZERS (Wings, Salad) * $1 Off on Pizza *Free Delivery * Wehonor Major Credit Cards on deliyeries too! ST. GEORGE'S UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE GRENADA. WEST INDIES St. George's University School of Medicine, w1th more than 975 graduates l1censed in 33 states, offers a rigorous, mne-semester program leading to the degree of Doctor of Medicine. In January 1985, The Journal of the American Medical Association pub- lished a report which ranked St. George's number one of all major foreign medical schools in .the initial pass rate on the ECFMG Exam. 70 medical schools in the United States have accepted over 630 St. George's students with advanced standing. St. George's has received probationary approval to conduct clinical clerksl)ips in New Jersey subject to regulations of the State Board of Examiners. • A Loan Program for Entering Students has been instituted for a limited number of qualified applicants. For information, please contact the Office of Admissions: St. George's University School of Medicine 'lc The Foreign Medical School Services Corporation One East Main Street, Bay Shore, N.Y. 11706, Dept. C-1 (516) 665-8500 THIS IS IT! PICK UP YOUR COPY OF THE UNION LAMPOONE FROM BILL & JED THE FRIENDLY OOIDS FRIDAY AT HALE AT WEST <Hnncnrhitnsfs SPORTS Crew team practices on the Mohawk ERG Chal'lenge to Begin Next Week By TED EVELETH The Union College Rowing Association is sponsoring its annual Erg Challenge from 12:30 a.m. Friday, February 29 to Sunday, March 2 in the Skellar. This year the event promises to be bigger than ever. The Erg Challenge is run on the principle that for every dollar collected the crew will row a mile. The rowing will be done. on an ergometer, rowing machine, on a continuous basis keeping the wheel of the ergometer spinning. Mayor Starts Challenge This year the crew is in- volving members of the college and Schenectady community. The Mayor of Schenectady Karen Johnson will be officially starting the Erg Challenge at 12:30 on Friday. President Morris may not be able to row because of illness. The deans, faculty, student forum, and other groups and individuals on campus have been invited to U S Department of Health & Human Serv•ces TEST YOUR KNOWLEDGE. Q: How many of the people who died of lung row. The faculty were asked to form teams by department possibly providing a little friendly competition. The crew is trying to raise money both for its spring trip to the Oakfield, Tennessee area, and its spring racing season which includes the President's Cup regatta and the Dad Vail regatta. Students should feel free to stop by the Skellar during this time. The crew would like to thank you for your sponsorship. -\ \., -~ .. cancer last year were smokers? A. 25% B. 40% c. 60% 0.80% QUITTING. IT COULD BE THE TEST OF YOUR LIFE. Saturday 7:00P.M. W.R.U.C. 89.7 Presents E.C.A.C. Division II West Playoffs Union at Oswego Sportsline Sunday 11 : 15 After Trivia With Bob Koch, Charlie Slotnik, and Tom Coleman ********************************************************************************************************************** I llltfllr irnsis P R I ~ ~ ~ N.C.A.A. TOURNAMENT CONTEST ! ~ ~ ~ Pick FinalS Teams at MfiNHf\1bt4N ~ ~ Win Dinner for Two ~A(~IH~~(;IE ~ i All Entriesmustbe 605UnionStreet t ~ ~ t put in the Concordiensis Tie Breaker- Pick Winner : i Box No. 2577 by March 3rd. and Score of Championship Game t ~********************************************************************************~***********************************~

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 ·Qrnncorbiensis SPORTS Hoopsters Drop Pair To End Season 12·12 . • • • Binghamton ends playoff hopes ByMARKVANBUREN The Union basketball team lost two very important games during the past week to erase all chances of heading to post- season play. Last Tuesday they fell to Binghamton,. 70-67, and on Saturday, the Dutchmen dropped an 80-68 decision to LeMoyne. Tuesday night, Binghamton jumped out to an early 4~ lead just one minute into the game. They would maintain this lead throughout the entire first half. When Barry Goldberg hit a jumpshot at the 14:44 mark, the Colonials led 12-6. Union pulled to within one point, 20-19, when Todd Lafayette hit a short - jumper with 7:10 left in the half. Joe Romer's two consecutive jumpshots knotted the score at 24, just 5:22 before the in- termission. Binghamton, however, scored the game's next s~ points and when Mark Jones connected on a driving lay-up, the Colonials were ahead 30-24 as the clock showed 3:34 remaining in the period. Union came right back with two baskets by Romer and Kurt Fox to cut the deficit to two points, 30-28, but Binghamton out- .scored them 4.:2 in the remainder of the half, to go into the lockerroom leading 34-aO. Dutchmen Come Out Sparked The Dutchmen came out in the second half running off 5~ and 18-6 spurts, to grab a 48-40 advantage with 14:44 showing on the clock. Union still led by .eight, 57-49, five minutes later as Todd Lafayette scored on a short bankshot. Binghamton cut the lead to -two, 61-59, when Mark Jones cashed in on a drive to the basket with 5: 30 left to play. Dave Hochberg's two free throws tied the .game 63-63 with just 3:37 remaining. The Colonials scored the next four points to go ahead 67-63 with 2:06 to go in the game. Mike Schuman missed the front end of a one-and-one and Ken Levine hit two free throws to bring Union to within two, 67-65, at the 1: 2() mark. Union regained possession of the ball, but could not convert as Kurt Fox was called for travelling with 0:32 remaining. After John Caveri made one of two foul shots, Tom Beck hit a jumper to close the gap to one, 68-67. However, Caveri put the game out of reach for Union by nailing: two free throws with 0: 10 showing, to give Binghamton a 70-67 victory. The big story in the game was Binghamton's Dave Hochberg, who scored all of his 15 points in the second half. Kurt Fox led the Dut• chmen ·with 17 points. Joe Romer and Todd Lafayette added 12 and 11 points respectively. Mark .Jones led Binghamton with 16 points and Hochberg added 15. Season Finale Saturday, the Dutchmen travelled to LeMoyne to oppose the Division IT Dolphins. Union grabbed a quick 2-o lead on a basket by Todd Lafayette only 33 seconds into the game. Unfortunately, it was the only time throughout the game that they would have the lead. LeMoyne ran off a 10-2 spurt to grab a 10-4 lead on James Henderson's basket at the 15:39 mark. The Dolphins extended their advantage to 10 points, 22- 12, on a Brian Betelak jumper with 9:33 left in the first half. Three straight baskets by the Dutchmen cut the LeMoyne lead to four, 22-18, capped off by a Joe Romer long-range jumper at 7:59. The Dolphins boosted their advantage back up to eight points, where it remained for the i:\est of the half as the teams ended the first period w:ith LeMoyne ahead, 44-36. Kurt Fox kept Union close in the opening period by scoring 18 of the team's 36 points. · LeMoyne upped its halftime lead to double figures, and to the largest advantage enj_oyed bY either team in the game, 12 points, 56-44, with 11:21 showing on the clock, on two free throws from Bill Smolinski. Union went Qn an 11-4 scoring spurt to draw to within five points, 6()..55, when Tom Beck connected from 20 feet out with 6: 32 left in the game. Eight straight points by the Dolphins brought their lead back up to double figures, 68-55, with only4:31 remaining. From this point in the game, Union could get no closer than 10 points, as LeMoyne evened its record at 13-13, with an 8-67 Yictory. Kurt Fox led the Dutch- men with a game-high 22 points. Neil Winawer added 10 points and Doug Gregory had nine points and six rebounds. Tom Beck dished out 10 assists for Union. Walter Hill and Peter Jerebko both led LeMoyne with 18 points apiece. James Hen- derson contributed 14 points and 8 rebounds to the Dolphin cause. DUTCHMEN NOTES..... The last two Dutchmen losses evened their season's final record at 12-12. Union was 7-4 in games played at Memorial fieldhouse, but once off the Schenectady campus, the team was only 5-8 ..... Kurt Fox led the team in both scoring and rebounding, averaging 18.1 ppg and 7.2 rpg. Todd Lafayette followed Fox in. both categories with figures of 10.0 ppg and 6~7 rpg..... As a team, Union averaged 71.0 ppg, while giving up 66.7 ppg ..... Even though the Dutchmen missed out on post- season competition, their op- ponents seemed to fare better. Nine of Union's 22· different regular season opponents are headed to post-season tour- naments. Of the eight teams selected to participate in -the E.GA.C. Upstate N.Y. Tour- nament, four of them were on the Union schedule (Hartwick, Hamilton, Albany State and Binghamton), with the first three teams being the top three seeds in the tournament. Although there is no news as of yet, it is suspected that ManhattanviHe and King's Point will participate in · the E~C.A.C. Downstate N.-Y. Tournament. Potsdam. and Nazareth were·both selected as two of the four New York schools to go to the, New York State Regionals of the N.C.A.A. Tournament. Norwich Univ. will probably participate in the New England Regionals of the sanne.tournament. · Fencers Lunge Into Action , By MICHAEL F. MILLETT The Union College Fencing Club has rapidly advanced, since its conception by junior, Danny Choi. After stumbling over some fencing equipment- Union possessed from a previously formed club-. Dan began his conquest of beginning a team. He immediately created a constitution, in the hopes of getting a budget for spring term. The constitution was ratified, and the club once again represEmts the college, after some fourteen years of inactivity. Fencers Start Season Only after recruiting several new enthusiastic members, was it discovered that the original equipment consisted of fatigued foils, illegal masks-not allowed in intercollegiate competition- and protective jackets all in- tended for six foot, left-handed women. Inevitably, it seemed the next task was to acquire the necessary funds needed to repair and purchase essential equipment. Since the team's existence, its hardest battle has been ap- proval of its budget; the Student Forum seemed reluctant to provide the funds for a new club--taking pride in their ability to chop a budget as no other group could. With the remainder of the requested[ budget the team ordered enough equipment for five to fence competitively. Until this arrived, the team practiced in the now-empty alumni gym ~nd on its front walks, bi-weekly. At first, the outlook was grim; it seemed an impossibility for one person to coach even this small team-the technique~ in- volved is difficult, and hours of individual training, are required to produce a good fencer. Luckilyt additional instructors were found; Charles-Oliver Boch-a member of the French National team, David Lewis, and Phill Erwin. Mter a short spring season, the newly formed team retired their equipment to the Nott for summer storage. With the return of another school year, the sound of blades echoed in the fieldhouse-the replacement for alumni gym. This turned into a minor disaster. The team was promised space at the fieldhouse, only to be besieged by runners, bicyclers, sports teams, and weekend athletes. The team was finally forced to leave because of the deplorable conditions. During this time, three extremely valuable fencers were added to Union's growing list of members; Andrew Fraser, an Empire State Games contestant,·Stefan Einarson, previously New York City's Y.C. Best Amateur Fencer, and Frank Schrieber, previously Germany's Third Sabre Champion .. ·After vacating the gym, the team took residence in South College Dormitory. For a brief period, the team, desparate for a place to practice, made do with the cramped quarters, until forced to leave. Unfortunately, the sport was deemed too unsafe to The Con cordi ens is Sports Quiz: Name the only active player to win an NCAA championship, Olympic Gold Medal, and an NBA Championship. Answer next week become a dorm sport, and it interfered with the dorm's studies. Following this was a brief escapade into Hale, and finally Social Sciences where the team now presides. Dutchmen Maul At their first competition, Union's Dutchmen chopped their opponent, Skidmore, apart. The team won its first victory, taking eight of the nine competition bouts, and most of the expedition bouts that followed. Co-captain Charles- Oliver Boch, began the meet with a quick, concise first win, followed by Frank Schrieber, Stefan Einarson, Andrew Fraser, Vice-president, Philip Erwin, Sy Jenkins, and Sing- Yun Lee. After the main competition, many exhibitions were waged. In these bouts team president, Dan Choi and treasurer, Michael Millett, defeated the majority of their opponents, along with Charles- Oliver Boch, and Frank Schrieber. The team now practices Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evenings from 7-9 p.m. in the Social Science Building, and welcomes any newcomers interested in learning the art. There is great anticipation about the team's upcoming competitions, because of the team's promising potential, en- thusiasm, and growing mem- . hership. 1985-86Union CoiJege Women's Basketball Statistics Final-20 Game Totals-.Final Player Patty Richards Kim Mangino Colleen Dundon Bee Clemente· Elaine Pick Barb Weisinger Julie Gallo Michelle Van Pattan Valerie Sarwln Margaret Eshoo Gms FG FGA FG~ FT% Reb Pts 20 82 196 41.8 66.7 93 190 19 81 185 43.8 61.3 103 181 19 68 198 34 52.7 85 165 20 70 169 41 62.0 52 171 20 59 182 32.4 78.9 49 i33 20 43 126 34.1 36.6 91 101 18 34 102 33.3 34.6 29 77 13 15 43 34.9 42.8 45 33 7 1 9 11.1 50.0 6 4 7 1 8 1 00.0 3 2 Avg 9.5 9.5 8.7 8.5 6.6 5 4.3 2.5 0.5 0.3 Union Opponents 20 454 1~18 37.3 54.6 556 1057 52.8 20 449 1095 41.0 60.1 550 1092 54.6 Retord (9-11) Home. (5·4) Away (4~6) Neutral (0-1) jii!IIJiillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllll/llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllrullllllllllllilllil~ ~ = The Qloncnrnirnsts S-ports Staf! welcomes any Letters or Comments from our readers about articles appearing on our pages. I Se·lected letters will be published. ~ - = i,,IU,,,,,,,m,,,l,,llilllilllilll''''''''n'mm•u'''\'''\'u'uu,u•m•m•\n'''''''u'm\'''n'''''uilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllu••'''''ll''m\l'l'l'lll'mmluml•unJIIIIIIIIm - 1 We his pla tea thr roa to see We we sa' Mic ele am Un Bal ). ha~ per fro: a. Du M\ tea j se~ S\l Un Ne sw mE rei tea fev 18 cer 1 M~ Bo the lov anc tee pe1 1 Fr1 Sb fre ba· twc rot - • 1 hac ag; thJ COl rec plci de1 Un pol aU Dil wil mi I of bb ref Th beJ ell eli all col plc pel thi

Page 18 CONCORDfENSJS, February 27. i986 illnntnr~itnsis SPORTS Hoopsters Drop Pair To End Season 12-12 • • • Binghamton ends playoff hopes By MARK VANBUREN The Union basketball team lost two very important games during the past week to erase all chances of heading to pest- season play. Last Tuesday they fell to Binghamton, 70-67, and on Saturday, the Dutchmen dropped an 80-68 decision to LeMoyne. Tuesday night, Binghamton jumped out to an early 4-0 lead just one minute into the game. They would maintain this lead throughout the entire first half. When Barry Goldberg hit a jumpshot at the 14:44 mark, the Colonials led 12-6. Union pulled to within one point, 20-19, when Todd Lafayette hit a short · jumper with 7: 10 left in the half. Joe Romer's two consecutive jumpshots knotted the score at 24, just 5:22 before the in- termission. Binghamton, however, scored the game's next six points and when Mark Jones connected on a driving lay-up, the Colonials were ahead 30-24 as the clock showed 3:34 remaining in the period. Union came right back with two baskets by Romer and Kurt Fox to cut the deficit to two points, 30-28, but Binghamton out- scored them 4-2 in the remamder of the half, to go into the lockerroorn leading 34-30. Dutchmen Come Out Sparked The Dutchmen came out in the second half running off 5-0 and 18-6 spurts, to grab a 48-40 advantage with 14:44 showing on the clock. Union still led by eight, 57-49, five minutes later as Todd Lafayette scored on a short bankshot. Binghamton cut the lead to two, 61-59, when Mark Jones cashed in on a drive to the basket with 5: 30 left to play. Dave Hochberg's two free throws tied the .game 63-63 with just 3:37 remaining. The Colonials scored the next four points to go ahead 67-63 with 2: 06 to go in the game. Mike Schuman missed the front end of a one-and-one and Ken Levine hit two free throws to bring Union to within two, 67-65, at the 1 :20 mark. Union regained possession of the ball, but could not convert as Kurt Fox was called for travelling with 0:32 remaining. After John Caveri made one of two foul shots, Torn Beck hit a jumper to close the gap to one, 68-67. However, Caveri put the game out of reach for Union by nailing; two free throws with 0:10 showing, to give Binghamton a 70-67 victory. The big story in the game was Binghamton's Dave Hcchberg, who scored aU of his 15 points in the second half. Kurt Fox led the Dut- chmen Vlith 17 points. Joe Romer e~nd Todd Lafayette added 12 and 11 points respectively. Mark Jones led Bingharnt()n with 16 points and Hochberg added 15. Season Finale Saturday, the Dutchmen travelled to LeMoyne to oppose the Divisi(m II Dolphins. Union grabbed a quick 2..Q lead on a basket by Todd Lafayette enly 33 seconds into the game. Unfortunately, it was the only time throughout the game that they would have the lead. LeMoyne ran off a 10-2 spurt to grab a 10-4 lead on James Henderslln's basket at the 15:39 mark. The Dolphins e:xtended their advantage to 10 points, :22- 12, on a Erian Betelak jumper with 9:33 left in the first half. Three straight baskets by the Dutchme11 cut the LeMoyn.e lead to four, 22-18, capped off by a Joe Romer long-range jumper at 7:59. \The Dolphins boosted their advantage backup to eight points, where it remained for the rest o:fthe half as the teams ended the first period w.ith LeMoyne ahead, 44-36. Kurt Fox kept Uni()n close in the opening period by scoring 18 of the team's 36 points. LeMoyne upped its halftime lead to double figures, and to the largest advantage enjoyed by either team in the game, 12 points, 56-44, with 11:21 showing on the clock, on two free throws from Bill Smolinski. Union went on an 11-4 scoring spurt to draw to within five points, 60-55, when Tom Beck connected from 20 feet out with 6:32 left in the game. Eight straight points by the Dolphins brought their lead back up to double figures, 68-55, with only 4:31 remaining. From this point in the game, Union could get no closer than 10 points, as LeMoyne evened its record at 13-13, with an 8-67 Yictory. Kurt Fox let! the Dutch- men with a game-high 22 points. Neil Winawer added 10 points and Doug Gregory had nine points and six rebounds. Tom Beck dished out 10 assists for Union. Walter Hill and Peter Jerebko both led LeMoyne with 18 points apiece. James Hen- derson contributed 14 points and 8 rebounds to the Dolphin cause. DUTCHMEN NOTES..... The last two Dutchmen losses evened their season's final record at 12-12. Union was 7-4 in games played at Memorial fieldhouse, but once off the Schenectady campus, the team was only 5-8 ..... Kurt Fox led the team in both scoring and rebounding, averaging 18.1 ppg and 7.2 rpg. Todd Lafayette followed Fox in beth categories with figures of 10;0 ppg and 6.7 rpg. .... As a team, Union averaged 71.1) ppg, while giving up 66.7 ppg ..... Even though the Dutchmen missed out on post- season competition, their op- ponents seemed to fare better. Nine of Union's 22 different regular season opponents are headed to p()st-season tour- naments. Of the eight teams selected to participate in the E.C.A.C. Upstate N.Y. Tour- nament, feur of them were on the Union schedule (Hartwick, Hamilton, Albany State and Binghamton)., with the first three teams i>eing the top three seeds in the tournament. Although there is no news as of yet, it is suspected that ManhattanvBle and King's Point will participate in the E.C.A.C. Downstate N.Y. Tournament. Potsdam and Nazareth were both selected as two of the four New York schools to go to the New York State Regionals of the N .C.A.A. Tournament. Norwich Univ. will probably participate in the New England Regionals of the same tournament. Fencers lunge Into Action . By MICHAEL F. MILLETT The Union College Fencing Club has rapidly advanced, since its conception by junior, Danny Choi. After stumbling over some fencing equipment- Union possessed from a previously formed club-, Dan began his conquest of beginning a team. He immediately created a constitution, in tlle hopes of getting a budget for spring term. The constitution was ratified, and the club once again repres9nts the college, after some fourteen years of inactivity. Fencers Start Season Only after recruiting several new enthusiastic members, was it discovered that the original equipment consisted of fatigued foils, illegal masks-not allowed in intercollegiate competition- and protective jackets all in- tended for six foot, left-handed women. Inevitably, it seemed the next task was to acquire the necessary funds needed to repair and purchase essential equipment. Since the team's existence, its hardest battle has been ap- proval of its budget; the Student Forum seemed reluctant to provide the funds for a new club--taking pride in their ability to chop a budget as no other group could. With the remainder of the requested! budget the team ordered enough equipment for five to fence competitively. Until this arrived, the team practiced in the now-empty alumni gym and on its front walks, bi-weekly. At first, the outlook was grim; it seemed an impossibility for one person to coach even this small team-the technique in· volved is difficult, and hours of individual training, are required to produce a good fencer. Luckily, additional instructors were f1 und; Charles-Oliver Boch-a member of the French National team, David Lewis, and Phill Erwin. After a short spring season, the newly formed team retired their equipment to the Nott for sununer storage. With the return of another school year, the sound of blades echoed in the fieldhouse-the replacement for alumni gym. This turned into a minor disaster. The team was promised space at the fieldhouse, only to be besieged by runners, bicyclers, sports teams, and weekend athletes. The team was finally forced to leave because of the deplorable conditions. During this time, three extremely valuable fencers were added to Union's growing list of members; Andrew Fraser, an Empire State Games contestant, Stefan Einarson, previously New York City's Y.C. Best Amateur Fencer, and Frank Schrieber, previously Germany's Third Sabre Champion. After vacating the gym, the team took residence in South College Dormitory. For a brief period, the team, desparate for a place to practice, made do with the cramped quarters, until forced to leave. Unfortunately, the sport was deemed too unsafe to The Concordiensis Sports Quiz: Name the only active player to win an NCAA championship, Olympic Gold Medal, and an NBA Championship. Answer next week become a dorm sport, and it interfered with the dorm's studies. Following this was a brief escapade into Hale, a11d finally Social Sciences where the team now presides. D11tchmen Maul At their first competition, Union's Dutchmen chopped their opponent, Skidmore, apart. Tile team won its first victory, taking eight of the nine competitim bouts, and most of the expedition !>outs that followed. Co-captain Charles- Oliver Boch, began the meet with a quiek, concise first win, followed by Fran:k Schrieber, Stefan Einarson, Andrew Fraser, Vice-president, Philip Erwin, S:y Jenkins, and Sing- Yun Lee. After the main competitim, many exhibitions were waged. In these bouts team president, Dan Choi and treasurer, Michael Millett, defeated the majority of their opponents, along with Charles- Oliver Boch, and Frank: Schricher. The team now practices Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday evenings from 7·9 p.m. in the Social Science Building, and welcomes any newcomers interested in learning the art. There is great anticipati<Jll about the team's upcoming competitions, because of the team's prom1s1ng potential, en- thusiasm, and growing mem- bership. . - =.·\ ..... ' .... lSS:t, · 41'.s· ~~a':-~'· .. ~#r-· · 1;~79 46J! · zg,,l) 11a 1985-86 Union College Women's Basketball Statistics Final-20 Game Totals-Final Player Gms FG FGA FG% FT% Reb Pts Patty Richards 20 82 196 41.8 66.7 93 190 Kim Mangino 19 81 185 43.8 61.3 103 181 Colleen Dundon 19 68 198 34 52.7 B5 165 Bee Clemente· 20 70 169 41 62.0 52 171 Elaine Pick 20 59 182 32.4 78.9 49 133 Barb Weisinger 20 43 126 34.1 36.6 91 101 Julie Gallo 18 34 102 33.3 34.6 29 77 Michelle Van Pattan 13 15 43 34.9 42.8 45 33 Valerie Sarwin 7 1 9 11.1 50.0 6 4 Margaret Eshoo 7 1 8 1 00.0 3 2 Union 20 454 1218 37.3 54.6 556 1057 Opponents 20 449 1095 41.0 60.1 55() 1092 Record (9-11) Home.C5-4) Away (4-6) Neutral (0·1) Avg 9.5 9.5 8.7 8.5 6.6 5 4.3 2.5 0.5 0.3 52.8 54.6 tltllllllltlllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiY!t I The Ql,uncnt~itnni!i Sports Staff welcomes I I any Letters or Comments from our readers I ~ abou1 articles appearing on our pages. ~ i Sel:ected letfers will be published. I !lllllilllllllllilllllilllilllililllilllilllllllllllllllllllllllilllilllll illlilllllilllllilllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll - Tl Wee his I pia: tear thre roa< to t see< Wes wer sav Mid elev and Uni1 Bak A, has perc fror a f Dut MV tear A sea: Swi Uni Ne\ swiJ me1 rep1 teru few 18 I cerl T Ma1 Bou the low and teer per: T Fre She free bac twe rou1 - • J. E had aga thr' cou req· pia: den Uni pos: athl Dis I witl mil: K of bla1 ref< ThE bef1 elrr eli~ all• coll ploi peo the!

. d g e s e . s CONCORDIENSIS, Fe~r11_ary 27, 19~.:,.6 __________________ ............,__._...-....;.._ _______ P. __ 'Ilg_e_l_9 Athlete of the· Week ByDOUGLASLWYD This week's Athlete of the Week is Wayne McDougall for his brilliance in the nets for the playoff-bound Union hockey team. Wayne, a senior, has won thr~~ straight games, all on the road, against some fine teams to bring Union up to the fifth seed in the E.C.A.C. Div. II West Tournament. His wins were against Hamilton · (27 saves), Norwich (35), and Middlebury (37) to give him eleven victories for the season and 46 for his career, a record at Union~ far surpassing Steve Baker's 27 wins. · Against Div. II teams Wayne has a 2.62 G.A.A.. and a 90.3 save percent this season. Wayne is from 9-uelph, Ont., and has been a , four year start.er for the Dutchmen. He received the MVP Award for last year's team who won the E.C.A.C. ))iy ,g 0 .c 0.. o· Wayne McDougall II West cr()wnand finished third in the nation. This Chi Psi brother currently holds eight records f()r the Skating Dut- chmen: consecutive games without a loss (12); wins in a career ( 46) ; wins in a season (18); shutouts ( 4); minutes in a game (93:24); minutes in a career (4,686:96);, saves in:....a game (61); . and saves in a career (2,177). Wayne, an Economics-Math major, will be in the nets again in Saturday's game at Oswego St., the first round of the E.C.A.C. Division II West tourney. Let's wish Wayne and his teainmates luck in their postseason play by getting out to Oswego to root them on. Congratulations to Wayne on his recent performances and on an outstanding career at Union College. · Women _Swimmers Finish Strong By LISA FREED After building up to it all season, the Union Women's Swim Team travelled out to the University of Rochester for the New York State Championship swin meet. With five team members qualifying, . t).ijs . represented one of the larger teams going to States in the past few years. How~ver, out of the 18 teams present, Union was certainly one of the tinier ones. The bonus relay team of Marty Phipps, Laura Uhl, Betsy Boutwell, and Deb Dostie swam the 200 freestyle relay. They lowered their own best time, and . placed an overall four- teenth. Marty's time was also a personal best. . The fifth team member, Lisa Freed, swam individual ev~nts. She competed in the 100 freestyle, and the 50 backstroke, qualifying in twelfth place for the .consolation round of the 50 back. Lisa also swam the 100 backstroke. She lowered her own personal best and school record by almosttwo seconds in that event. Sw.imming the consolation round. of finals, she placed an overall 11th, out of 21 entrants. In the 200 back, Lisa again . lowered her school ree()rd, and personal best, by over two seconds. Out of the 24 swimmers in tile event, Lisa placed eighth. Although they may not have outscored a l()t elf other teams, Union had a very good meet for each individual. As always, the team won the r-shirt buying event, as well as overachieving in the eating category. However, most important, is the closeness and \team\ feeling that builds throl.lgh an event like this. Somehow, it makes the end of a long time swimming a lot easier to deal with. Thanks ga11g! ! In their last dual meet of the season, the Union women's . . . Commentary swim . team traveled to Mid- dlebury College. Although not always placing highly, a few team members bad a very good meet. .Bob Dostie took a second in the 1000 free, and later teamed up with . M.a rty Phipps,.fLa. m:a • Uhl, and Bets~ B.outwe~to wm. . the closing free relay. 1 Marty also swam the 200 free, while Laura took a third in the 100 butterfly. Betsy had a strong third place finish in the 500 free, as did Jen Whalen in both the 50 and 100 free events. Laurie Adelstein also swam the 50 and 100. In each event, Lauri did her best tiiiime. The team was verrry haaaapy for her. Finally, Lisa Freed added points with a third in the 200 I.M. as well as win- ning the 100 backstroke. This was the last meet for the season, and last meet for the seniors, Betsy, Jen, and Lisa. A hearty meal followed the meet as a fitting end to a long season. <ttnntnrb:irnsis SPORTS Charlie.Slotnik Looking at Sports Last Friday, at the Upton International Player.s Cham- pionships in Eoea Raton, Florida, Jimrny Connors walked off the court during the , fifth and final set of his semifinal match with Ivan Lendl. · Connors, displeased about a baseline call in the crucial fifth set argued vehemently with the head linesman. After being assessed a penalty point for delaying the match, which cost him a game, Connors refused to ·play, and the match was awarded to Lendl. The sophomoric behavior of Jimmy Connors is in.ex:cusable. Tennis is a sport with an aristocratic heritage, that is played by men and women who should act like gentlemen and ladies while on the eourt. Although the linesman missed the call it is not a sufficient reason for Connors to default from the match. Every time a · professional athlete enters a stadium he is aware of the possibility of an official making a mistake. Connor's tantrum was not going to change the call, thus he should have aceepted it, and proceeded' with what he intended to accomplish in Boca Raton: to defeat Ivan Lendl and win th.e Lipton tolli\nament. -However, Connors .. felt his' act· was justified. \You can only take so much. I had to stick up for my right.\ What rights? Jimmy Connors was a par- ticipant in a tournament, and therefore was obliged to accept the rulings of the ()fficials, as was every other player. It is eommon knowledge that as long as there are human officials there will be mistakes. Jimmy Connors is subject to an of- ficial's mistake as is every other player on the tour. Chris Evert lloyd believes the best players sliould display the best behavior; since they are the most visible to the public. '''I' ennis players get away with a lot more than any other sports figures and y{)u've got to put a cap on it\ said Uoyd. Indeed Mrs. lloyd is rigllt. The top players set a tone for the sport. A poor display of sportsmanship as Mr. Connors showed last Friday can affect the behavior of everyone in- volved in the sport, from the pros to the top juniors to the housewife who plays m.ix:ed doubles. When Billy Martin screams at an umpire he is ejected, but often when John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors, or other top tennis players belittle linesmen they are only given warnings. Mrs. Lloyd added, \There has to be more control over the behavior of players and how they treat umpires and of- ficials.\ In 1926 Suzanne LenglE, t.he premier women's tennis player in the world, played a yoUllg American, Helen Wills in Mme. Lengle's native France. T.he match was extremely close and controversial as the officials made three questionable cBlls, in Mme. Lengle's favor at a critical point in the match. However, al~hough Miss Wills was upset over the calls, s.be never argued, and lost a el()Se match with grace. Helen Wills went on t() win eight Wimbledon titles. At the time, Jimmy Collll()fS felt that point to be of partic11lar importance, but now facing large fines and a possible 21.-dcly suspension Connors must llave second thoughts about his outrage. Jimmy Connors default cost him more than the match of money, for there will alway£ IJe more matches, and money to be won. Jinuny Connors default cost him his .integrity ancl tarnished his image. A Need To Reform College Athletics By DARRYL BROWN English professor Jan Kemp had the nerve to speak out against passing college athletes · through courses when they could not meet the requirements, just so they could play ball. She claimed she was demoted and then fired from the University of Georgia for op- posing that special treatment of athletes. On Feb. 12 a U.S. District Court in Atlanta agreed with her, and awarded her $2.5 million. Kemp's case was one more bit of evidence of the already blatant need for substantial reform of college athletics. There are some good ideas before the NCAA (especially the elminiation of freshman eligibility) that woUld help to alleviate the corruption of college athletics and the ex- ploitation of athletes. But few people offer many ideas on the their athletes ·fake:- their way actual · education of a.cademically ill-prepared players. Most reformers ad- vocate either: 1) dropping the pretense of athletes-as-students and just paying them for their services, expecting scholastic achievement only from the minority who r..eally want it; or 2) insisting that only scholastically prepared students be admitted to college to play sports, with ~·heir athletic eligibility contingent upon satisfa.ct()ry. progress toward a degree, As it is, many athletes (mostly in football and basketball, and, mostly in Division I schools), are not, capable of college-level work . but still have no problem at- tending the university of their choice, pro.vided the school takes seriously the sport at which they excel. That is arranged by S()me college coaches and administrators who will exploit ·players for their prowess on the athletic field and cheat them off the field. College officials who help through college with phantom classes and forged transcripts not only are devoid of ethical standards but also demonstrate a complete lack of respect f.or players. They conceive of athletes only as lumps of musCle with no capacity for academic accomplishment. They deny athletes an education and expose the college's lack of faith that athletes are even capable of being educated. Most college athletes are unable to do college-level work, but they are capable of l~ar­ nlng and that opens a third '()pti~n that could satisfy those hungry for star players .as w~ll as those who feel a· uruverstty should, above all else, educate its students. Colleges could offer athletes who need it a basic, remedial e4ucation, starting at whatever level they left off in elementary or high school. College remedial :programs private-sector efforts or the and tutorial assistance schemes federal government have the like those most .players are resources to help most of these c:hanneled into are usually people. But college athletic designed to serve students who departments do, and they have are basically capable of college a steady supply of people w1Jo work if they have some extra need remedial help. help. But many athletes are not. . College is not the ideal place . Mega-dollar college sports · to teach basic reading allCI offers an overwhelming temp- math. But if some students still . tationto recruit IiearlyU!i.'terate need it, they won't get it players. Why not turn t:hat into anywhere else if not in tile an opportunity to help disad- college where they are valued vantaged students instead of for bringing in the big cr()wds simply exploiting them. and big bucks. If colleges sign: Colleges could, witb the vast up athletes who are incapable <Jf financial resources generated college work, they owe them Bt by collegiate SP<Jr1s, create least an effort to remedy whBt specially designed, intense they missed in the first twelve courses to work with atllletes at grades, and they shoUld exped whatever level they 11eed-even of them real effort toward those if it means beginning with educational gains. That's better fundamental reading skills. than tr~ating athletes as in• Every year 700,000 students capable of anything except drop out of high schooL. .Another catching a football. And it beats 700,000 graduate but can't read, excluding them from adding to the whopping total of educational opportunity .23 million Americans who are- altogether. functionally illiterate •. By andl American College Syndicate large neither l<M:al schools., (c) 1986

CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 198..:.6_~-----~-------~~A_ag_e_I_9 Athlete of t:he Week By DOUGLAS LLOYD This week's Athlete of the Week is Wayne McDougall for his brilliance in the nets for the playoff-bound Union hockey team. Wayne, a senior, has won three straight games, all on the road, against some fine teams to bring Union up to the fffth seed in the E.C.A.C. Div. II West Tournament. His wins were against Hamilton (27 saves), Norwich (35), and Middlebury (37) to give him eleven victories for the season and46 for his career, a record at Union·, far surpassing Steve Baker's 27 wins. Against Div. II teams Wayne has a 2.62 G .A.A. and a 90.3 save percent this season. Wayne is 0 from Guelph, Ont., and has been :g a four year starter for the a. Dutchmen. He received the o MVP Award for last year's Vl team who won the E.C.A.C. Div Wayne McDougall II West crown and finished third in the nation. This Chi Psi brother currently holds eight records for the Skating Dut- chmen: consecutive games without a loss ( 12) ; wins in a career ( 46) ; wins in a season (18); shutouts { 4); minutes in a game (93:24); minutes in a career ( 4,686 :96); saves in a game ( 61); and saves in a career (2,177). Wayne, an Economics-Math major, will be in the nets again in Saturday's game at Oswego St., the first round of the E.C.A.C. Division II West tourney. Let's wish Wayne and his teammates luck in their postseason play by getting out to Oswego to root them on. Congratulations to Wayne on his recent performances and on an outstanding career at Union College. Women Swimmers Finish Strong By LISA FREED After building up to it all season, the Union Women's Swim Team travelled out to the University of Rochester for the New York State Championship swin meet. With five team members qualifying, this represented one of the larger teams going to States in the past few years. However, out of the 18 teams present, Union was certainly one of the tinier ones. The bonus relay team of Marty Phipps, Laura Uhl, Betsy Boutwell, and Deb Dostie swam the 200 freestyle relay. They lowered their own best time, and placed an overall four- teenth. Marty's time was also a personal best. The fifth team member, Lisa Freed, swam individual events. She competed in the 100 freestyle, and the 50 backstroke, qualifying in twelfth place for the consolation round of the 50 back. Lisa also swam the 10() backstroke. She lowered her own personal best and school record by almost two seconds in that event. Swimming the consolation round of finals, she placed an overall 11th, out of 21 entrants. In the 200 back, Lisa again lowered her school record, and personal best, by over two seconds. Out of the 24 swimmers in the event, Lisa placed eighth. Although they may not have outscored a lot of other teams, Union had a very good meet for each individual. As always, the team won the T -shirt buying event, as well as overachieving in the eating category. However, most important, is the closeness and \team\ feeling that builds through an event like this. Somehow, it makes the end of a long time swimming a lot easier to deal with. Thanks gang!! In their last dual meet of the season, the Union women's . . . Commentary swim team traveled to Mid- dlebury College. Although not always placing highly, a few team members had a very good meet. Bob Dostie took a second in the 1000 free, and later teamed up with Marty Phipps,. Laura Uhl, and Betsy Boutwell. to win the closing free relay. Marty also swam the 200 free, while Laura took a third in the 100 butterfly. Betsy had a strong third place finish in the 5()0 free, as did Jen Whalen in both the 50 and 100 free events. Laurie Adelstein also swam the 50 and 100. In each event, Lauri did her best tiiiirne. The team was verrry haaaapy for her. Finally, Lisa Freed added points with a third in the 200 I.M. as well as win- ning the 100 backstroke. This was the last meet for the season, and last meet for the seniors, Betsy, Jen, and Lisa. A hearty meal followed the meet as a fitting end to a long season. <!tnncnrbitnsis SPORTS Looking at Sports Last Friday, at thE Lipton International Players Cham- pionships in Boca Raton, Florida, Jimmy Connors walked off the court dur-ing the fifth and final set of his semifinal match with Ivan Lendl. Connors, displeased about a baseline call in the c!'llcial fifth set ar-gued vehemently with the head linesman. After being assessed a penalty point for delaying the match, -which cost him a game, Connors refused to play, and the match was awarded to Lendl. The sophomoric beh.avior of Jimmy Connors is insex:cusable. Tennis is a sport v;ith an aristocratic heritage, that is played by men and \I\Ornen who should act like gentlemen and ladies while on the c·ourt. Although the linesman missed the call it is not a sufficient reason for Connors tl> default from the match. Every time a professional athlete enters a stadium he is aware of the possibility of an officLaL making a mistake. Connor's tantrum was not going to change the call, thus he should have acC!Epted it, and proceeded· with what he intended to accomplish in Boca Raton: to defeat I van LEmll and win the Lipton tournament. However, Connots felt his act was justified. \You can only take so much. I had to stick up for my I'ight.\ What rights? Jimmy Connors was a par- ticipant in a tournament, and therefore was obliged t<J accept the rulings of the officials, as was every other player. It is common knowledge that as long as there are huma11 officials there will be mistakes. Jimmy Connors is subject to an of- ficial's mistake as is every other player on the to11r. Chris Evert Lloyd believes the best players should display the best behavior; siace they are the most visible to the public. \Tennis players get away with a lot more than any other sports figures and you've got to put a cap on it\ said Lloyd. Indeed Mrs. Lloyd is right. The top players set a tone for the sport. A poor display of sportsmanship as Mr. Connors showed last Friday can affect the behavior of everyone in- volved in the sport, fr-orn the pros t~ the top juniors to the housewife who plays mixed doubles. When Billy Martin screams at an umpire he is ejected, but often when John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors, or other top tennis players belittle linesmen they are only given warnings. Mrs. Lloyd added, \There has to be more control over the behavior of players and how they treat umpires and of- ficials.\ In 1926 Suzanne Lengle, the premier women's tennis player in the world, played a young American, Helen Wills in Mme. Lengle's native France. The match was extremely close and controversial as the officials made three questionable calls, in Mme. Lengle's favor at a critical point in the match. However, although Miss Wills was upset over the calls, she never argued, and lost a close match with grace. Helen Wills went on to win eight Wimbledon titles. At the time, Jimmy Connors felt that point to be of particular importance, but now facing large fines and a possible 21-day suspension Connors must have second thoughts about his outrage. Jimmy Connors default cost him more than the match of money, for there will always be more matches, and money to be won. Jinuny Connors default cost him his integrity and tarnislled his image. A Need To Reform College Athletics By DARRYL BROWN English professor Jan Kemp had the nerve to speak out against passing college athletes through courses when they could not meet the requirements, just so they could play ball. She claimed she was demoted and then fired from the University of Georgia for op- posing that special treatment of athletes. On Feb. 12 a U.S. District Court in Atlanta agreed with her, and awarded her $2.5 million. Kemp's case was one more bit of evidence of the already blatant need for substantial reform of college athletics. There are some good ideas before the NCAA (especially the elminiation of freshman eligibility) that would help to alleviate the corruption of college athletics and the ex- ploitation of athletes. But few people offer many ideas on the their athletes fake their way actual · education of academically ill-prepared players. Most reformers ad- vocate either: 1) dropping the pretense of athletes-as-students and just paying them for their services, expecting scholastic achieven1ent only from the minority who r.eally want it; or 2) insisting that only scholastically prepared students be admitted to college to play sports, with their athletic eligibility contingent upon satisfactory progress toward a degree. As it is, many athletes (mostly in football and basketball, and mostly in Division I schools), are not capable of college-level work but still have no problem at- tending the university of their choice, provided the school takes seriously the sport at which they excel. That is arranged by some college coaches and administrators who will exploit players for their prowess on the athletic field and cheat them off the field. College officials who help through college with phantom classes and forged transcripts not only are devoid of ethical standards but also demonstrate a complete lack of respect for players. They conceive of athletes only as lumps of muscle with no capacity for academic accomplishment. They deny athletes an education and expose the college's lack of faith that athletes are even capable of being educated. Most college athletes are unable to do college-level work, but they are capable of ~~~r­ ning and that opens a thrrd ·opti~n that could satisfy those hungry for star players .as w~ll as those who feel a umvers1ty should, above all else, educate its students. Colleges could offer athletes who need it a basic, remedial education, starting at whatever level they left off in elementary or high school. College remedial Jll\ograms and tutorial assistance schemes like those most players are channeled into are usually designed to serve students who are basically capable of college work if they have some extra help. But many athletes are not. Mega-dollar college sports offers an overwhelrni.ng temp- tation to recruit nearly illiterate players. Why not tum that into an opportunity to help disad- vantaged students instead of simply exploiting them. Colleges could, with tile vast financial resources generated by collegiate sports, create specially designed, intense courses to work with atllletes at whatever level they n.eed-even if it means beginning with fundamental reading ::~ldlls. Every year 700,000 students drop out of high schooL. Another 700,000 graduate but ca11't read, adding to the whoppiag total of 23 million Americans wllo are- functionally illiterate. By andl large neither local ::;chools, private-sector efforts or the federal government have the resources to help most of these people. But college athletic departments do, and they have a steady supply of people who need remedial help. College is not the ideal place to teach basic reading and math. But if some students still need it, they won't get it anywhere else if not in the college where they are valued for bringing in the big crowds and big bucks. If colleges sign up athletes who are incapable of college work, they owe them at least an effort to remedy what they missed in the first twelve grades, and they should expect of them r-eal effort toward those educational gains. That's better than treating athletes as in- capable of anything except catching a football. And it beats excluding them from educational opportunity altogether. American College Syndicate (c) 1986

. . PageiO CONCORDIENSJS; February27, !.986 ~ 0 .c a. - .... ~ IJ) *..;,V• •• •\< < -' ' \ ··-~- Hockey Wins Final Two-Playoff Bound See story below. Thursday, February 27, 1986 Hoopsters End on Sad Note See storypg. 18 - Skating Dutchmen To Defend E.C.A.C.Crown By JOHN BRUCE and Sports Staff Congratulations to the Union College Skating Dutchmen on their third successive playoff bid. The- Dutchmen play this Saturday at Oswego (19-9-1) and hope to continue tbeir recent winning streak. Last week, the team won both their games beating Norwich and Mid- dlebury. The Dutchmen defeated Norwich last Thursday night by a score of 74. The stars of the game were seniors Wayne McDongall and Curt Cole. McDougall stopped 35 Cadet shots, and kept the game close until the squad finished off Norwich. The Union goals were tallied by seniors Dave Weiss, Tom Brandell, John MacKenzie and Curt Cole, who scored twice, sophomore Scott Cyr and freshman Darren Stephens scored as well. The score was 5-4 in the middle of the third PE\riod when Cole scored his 50th and 51st goals of his career at Union. The squad also defeated Middlebury by a 3-2 margin, to finish the regular season witb an overall record of14-11 and 14- 7 in Division II. The Dutchmen raised their record on the road to 5-8 behind goals from Senior Todd Flanigan, junior Duane Joyce and freshman Sean Norton. Norton's goal was the first of his Union College career. Goalie Wayne McDougall picked up his 11th win of the season and 46th of his career, kicking away 37 shots. Union's most improved player, Todd Flanigan, scored his second game winning goal, and eighth of the year to lift the Skating Dutchmen to victory. Puck notes .... Gary Temush is questionable .for $aturday's playof£ game. He is still suf- fering from a virus .... Nelson Said should be in the . lineup after missing the Middlebury game .... Sean Norton has two points in the last two games .... Wayne McDouball is finally playing up to the fonn that he is capable of, and should give the Dutchmen the much needed goaltending that they will need to defend the E.C.A.C. W ~st championship. Tracksters Finish 4th By ANDY HODGKIN At the RPI Invitational this past Saturday the Union men's indoor track team tied RPI for fourth place, competing against some of the best schools in the state. Ithaca, Cortland and Albany finished one-two-three ahead of Union respectfully. The Dutchmen were able to amass 67 points with a total of four first place finishes. The solid performer Scott Remillard was the only double winner for the Dutchmen as he continued to dominate the 35 lb. weight throw and the shot put in the state. He easily won each event with throws. of 18.7 in. 18.71m. and 14.10rn. respectively. Todd Allen copped first place in the 45 meter dash with a time of 5.5 seconds. Rob Mohlar and Jeff Barker picked up a first place and fourth place in the 500 meter dash With times of 1:08.4 and 1:09.4 respectively. Chris O'Donnell and Bob Stenard were also double scorers in the 3000 with places and times of second and fifth and 9:06.4 and 9:12.7 respectively. other scorers for the Dut- chmen were Wayne Lacy in tbe pole vault with a vault of 13'6\ · which was good enough for tbird and Allen again in the 400 meter event with a fourth place time of 53.8 seconds. Marc Gagnon placed sixth in the 1500 and Jeff Barker placed sixth in the 800 meter race. The Union Distance ·Medley Relay team rounded out the scoring with a sixth place finish. Next on the agenda for tbe Dutchmen in the Union Men's Invitational this coming Saturday afternoon here at the fieldhouse. TICKETS FOR SKATING DUTCHMEN Students with I.D •..................... $2.00 Adults ............................................ $4. 00 Tickets for the Oswego St. game can be purcha~ed both at Achilles Rink and at Oswego. A college sponsored bus is leaving from Achilles Rink at 3 p.m. Ftrst come, first serve. The price for the bus is $10.00 and does not include tickets. Contact Achilles Rink Box Officfa for reservations. -- . 1985-86 Union College Hockey Statistics 2SGameTo1als OVERALL V!;. DIVISION II Player GP G Curt Cole 22 14 ToddFianigan 24 8 Duane Joyce 25 13 Tom Hodgins 25 8 John Mackenzie 25 4 Nelson Said 22 9 Gary Temush 23 10 Scott Cyr 22 12 Dave Appleby 25 4 Darren Stephens 24 3 . Chris Hunti.ngton 18 5 Dave Weiss 24 2 Tom Brandel! 25 3 Scott Manley 23 1 Mike Raymond 8 1 Keith Robertson 13 1 Mike Forhan 22 2 Bill Snow 17 0 Gavin Morton 9 1 Rich Prezotti 22 0 . Wayne McDougall 20 0 · Sean Norton 3 1 · Scott Richardson 22 o Rick Rockett 1 0 Toby O'Brien 5 0 JimMacLaughlin 4 o A Pts PM 11 25 30 16 24 47 11 . 24 42 15 23 53 19 23 44 1() 19 16 8 18 4 4 16 18 10 14 32 10 13 21 6 11 12 9 11 14 7 10 40 4 5 18 1 2 4 1 2 28 0 2 30 2 2 31 0 1 4 1 1 14 1 1 4 1 2 6 0 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 GP G 18 14 2() 8 21 10 21 8 21 3 18 8 1., 8 18 6 21 9 21 4 17 2 21 . 5 21 2 19 3 7 1 13 1 18 1 13 2 5 0 :2() 1 16 0 3 0 20 0 1 0 5 0 4 0, A Pfs PM 9 23 26 14 22 43 11 21 38 13 21 32 17 20 37 B 16 10 7 13 4 4 13 1.2 9 13 28 8 10 15 6 11 lO 9 11 14 7 10 38 4 5 14 1 2 4 1 2 28 0 2 22 2 .2 18 0 1 0 0 0 10 1 1 4 1 1 6 0 2 6 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 4 UNION TOTALS 25 103 146 249 520 21 90 221 321 449 · . Opponent Totals 25 77 124 201 459 21 58 154 312 385 R'ECORD: ECAC DIVISION 1114-7-0; OVERALL 14·11·0; • Home 9-2·0; Away 5·8-0 Neutral 0-1-0 Goalies GMS SVS GA S% W L T WayneMcDougall 20 510 3.05 89.3 11 9 o T~by o~Brien 5 132 3.21 89.2 3 2 o

Page20 CONCORDIENSIS, February 27, 1986 Q) +- c: 10 E Q) .... 1- ::::l 0 0 .....I .... 0 >- .s::. .c c. 0 - .... - 0 rtl .s:: .... (/') c. Hockey Wins Final Two .. Playoff Bound See story below. Hoopsters Ead o• Sad Note See story pg. 18 Thursday, February 27, '1986 Skating Dutchmen To Defend E. C. A. C. Crown By JOHN BRUCE and Sports Staff Congratulations to the Union College Skating Dutchmen on their third successive playoff bid. The- Dutchmen play this Saturday at Oswego (19-9-1) and hope to continue their recent winning streak. Last week, the team won both their games beating Norwich and Mid- dlebury. The Dutchmen defeated Norwich last Thursday night by a score of 7-4. The stars of the game were seniors Wayne McDougall and Curt Cole. McDougall stopped 35 Cadet shots, and kept the game close until the squad finished off Norwich. The Union goals were tallied by seniors Dave Weiss, Tom Brandell, John MacKenzie and Curt Cole, who scored twice, sophomore Scott Cyr and freshman Darren Stephens scored as well. The score was 5-4 in the middle of the third period when Cole scored his 50th and 51st goals of his career at Union. The squad also defeated Middlebury by a 3-2 margin, to finish the regular season with an overall record of 14-11 and 14- 7 in Division II. The Dutchmen raised their record on the road to 5-8 behind goals from Senior Todd Flanigan, junior Duane Joyce and freshman Sean Norton. Norton's goal was the first of his Union College career. Goalie Wayne McDougall picked up his 11th win of the season and 46th of his career, kicking away 37 shots. Union's most improved player, Todd Flanigan, scored his second game winning goal, and eighth of the year to lift the Skating Dutchmen to victory. Puck notes .... Gary Temush is questi<mable for Saturday's playoff game. He is still suf- fering from a virus .... Nelson Said should be in the lineup after missing the Middlebury game .... Sean Norton has two points in the last two games .... Wayne McDouball is finally playing up to the form that he is capable of, and should give the Dutchmen the much needed goaltending that they will need to defend the E.C.A.C. West championship. Tracksters Finish 4th By ANDY HODGKIN At the RPI Invitational this past Saturday the Union men's indoor track team tied RPI for fourth place, competing against some of the best schools in the state. Ithaca, Cortland and Albany finished one-two-three ahead of Union respectfully. The Dutchmen were able to amass 67 points with a total of four first place finishes. The solid performer Scott Remillard was the only double winner for the Dutchmen as he continued to dominate the 35 lb. weight throw and the shot put in the state. He easily won each event with throws of 18.7 in. 18.71m. and 14.10m. respectively. Todd Allen copped first place in the 45 meter dash with a time of 5.5 seconds. Rob Mohlar and Jeff Barker picked up a first place and fourth place in the 500 meter dash with times of 1:08.4 and 1:09.4 respectively. Chris O'Donnell and Bob Stenard were also double scorers in the 3000 with places and times of second and fifth and 9:06.4 and 9: 12.7 respectively. other scorers for the Dut- chmen were Wayne Lacy in the pole vault with a vault of 13'6\ which was good enough for third and Allen again in the 400 meter event with a fourth place time of 53.8 seconds. Marc Gagnon placed sixth in the 1500 and Jeff Barker placed sixth in the 800 meter race. The Union Distance Medley Relay team rounded out the scoring with a sixth place finish. Next on the agenda for the Dutchmen in the Union Men's Invitational this coming Saturday afternoon here at the fieldhouse. TICKETS FOR SKATING DUTCHMEN Students with I.D ...................... $2.00 Adults ............................................ $4.00 Tickets for the Oswego St. game can be purcha~ed both at Achilles Rink and at Oswego. A college sponsored bus is leaving from Achilles Rink at 3 p.m. First come, first serve. The price for the bus is $10.00 and does not include tickets. Contact Achilles Rink Box Office for reservations. 1985-86 Union College Hockey Statistics 25 Game Totals OVE llA.LL VS. DIVISION II Player GP G Curt Cole 22 14 Todd Flanigan 24 8 Duane Joyce 25 13 Tom Hodgins 25 8 John Mackenzie 25 4 Nelson Said 22 9 Gary Temush 23 10 Scott Cyr 22 12 Dave Appleby 25 4 Darren Stephens 24 3 Chris Huntington 18 5 Dave Weiss 24 2 Tom Brandel! 25 3 Scott Manley 23 1 Mike Raymond 8 1 Keith Robertson 13 1 Mike Forhan 22 2 Bill Snow 17 0 Gavin Morton 9 1 Rich Prezotti 22 0 Wayne McDougall 20 o Sean Norton 3 1 Scott Richardson 22 0 Rick Rockett 1 0 Toby O'Brien 5 0 Jim MacLaughlin 4 0 A Pts PM 11 25 30 16 24 47 11 24 42 15 23 53 19 23 44 l() 19 16 8 18 4 4 16 18 1() 14 32 10 13 21 6 11 12 9 11 14 7 10 40 4 5 18 1 2 4 1 2 28 0 2 30 2 2 31 0 1 4 1 1 14 1 1 4 1 2 6 0 0 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 GP G A 18 14 9 20 8 14 21 10 11 21 8 13 21 3 17 18 8 8 19 8 7 18 6 4 21 9 9 21 4 8 17 2 6 21 5 9 21 2 7 19 3 4 7 1 1 13 1 1 18 1 0 13 2 2 5 0 0 20 1 0 16 0 1 3 0 1 20 0 0 1 0 0 5 0 0 4 0 0 Pts PM 23 26 22 43 21 38 21 32 20 37 16 10 13 4 13 12 13 28 10 15 11 10 11 14 10 38 5 14 2 4 2 28 2 22 2 18 1 0 0 10 1 4 1 6 2 6 0 2 0 0 0 4 UN ION TOTALS 25 103 146 249 520 21 90 221 321 449 Opponent Totals 25 77 124 201 459 21 58 154 312 385 RECORD: ECAC DIVISION II 14-7-0; OVERALL 14-11·0; Home 9-2-0; Away 5-8·0 Neutral 0-1-0 Goalies GMS SVS GA S% W L T Wayne McDougall 20 510 3.05 89.3 11 9 o Toby O'Brien 5 132 3.21 89.2 3 2 0

