Vand'alism Jeo,p:a rd izes - .Library Extra Hours By MICHAEL SILBERSTEIN Ms. Ann Seeman, Director of •• - !..- •• 1877 November 6, 1986 College In Violation of Fire Safety Code Davidson Fire Promotes Discovery Union Taking Action to Comply By LORI LEON As a result of Concordlensis investigation into the Sep- tember 29 Davidson fire, the Department of Security on Safety has become aware that they are in violation of both a local and New York State fire the Schaffer Library, met With the Student Affairs· Committee answering the Committee's request to 11llow the library to be opeq extra hOlll'S beginning the we~k before finals until the end of the tenn. The Conunittee asked that the library be kept open an additional few hours, especially since .finals· are quickly approaching. Ms. Seeman was very receptive to the idea and thought it was a plausible request. Towards the end of the term, dorms are too distractive. Although the classrooms which are_ kept open till 2 a.m. offer some alternatives for studying, often a .small group of students pick an entire room to, study in and lock the door· that makes it iiilpossible for only a limited number Qf students to study jn · \ ~ code Safety law. This · has, g prompted recent measures by c. Uniontoamend this. each room used for sleeping purpo!es.'' As basic local laws do not override s~te laws~ Schenectady County's stan- dards are of the same accord: the City Council Ordinance 81· 37 ~ Section 11-46 reads \One smoke detector alarm device shan be prDvided in each dor- mitory sleeping unit.\ As of ~ The College provides both cr· · \ .... heat and smoke detectors in its · Iff ~oo?, D~rector of Safety and Security, comments on the dormitories, fraternity-soro- colle.ge s vrola.t1on of the Fire Safety Code. rity, and independent houses so that residents may be assW'ed a pertain degree of fire protec- tion. There is a heat detector (which reacts to 130 degrees of concentrated heat) in each dorm room (suite and bedroom) as . well as in kitchens and . cJJu~$t!lOIJlS~-------- ___ ., ... ,_, __ ~ ··- WRUC Controversy Closes; · Tatge Elected G.M. ... ,_ \••• ¥--•.\•• .,.. 'f; •· ., .•,-~:-~---- · I ~ )<. .,,_. •, ·•. ~~ However, the proposal· 'will · not go through if a recurrent problem continues, that of vandalism: things as tom cards in the card catalogs, broken chairs, graffiti; and dismantled copy machines.- This defacement of the library is further aggravated by students bringing food and drinks .into. the library. The iiilportance of 111aintaining this policy is to pr6tect the books and special collections from insects, bacteria, and liquids which would otherwise be jeopardized. The final word from Schaffer Library comes down to that if the librarytime is tO-be granted to the students, the vandalism and disregard toward library policy must cease. If approved, hours will be an- nouncednext week. By BRIAN FERGUSON At a special general meeting Wednesday October 29, the WRUC voting members removed general manager Scott Elkind from his position. At the same meeting, music director Conrad Tatge was elected the new general manager. The meeting brought to a close a controversial two months at WRUC, as was reported in . the October 29th issue of <:oncordlensis. . To briefly recap the situation that was occuring at WRUC, promotional manager John Morgan had initiated a petition of recall against then general manager Elkind. More than twenty-five percent of the voting membership of WR.UC signed the petition and it was --------~~----~~- Few Election Surprises; Cuomo, D' Amato Wi:n ByPAULSCHOP Ihcumbent governor Mario Cuomo, the chief architect of· the twenty-one year old drinking. age, was handed an unprecedented mandate by New York's voters last Tuesday. Cuomo, as of 11 p.m. ET, With 37 percent of the votes counted, had 65 percent of the votes. Andrew O'Rourke had 31 percent. · The size of Cuomo's victory was the largest ever ~ven to a gubernatorial candidate, in New York. The previous record margin in a New York guber· natorial election was held by Grover Cleveland, who won 58.1 percent 9f the vote in 1880. Clevelancl successftilly ran for President in 1884. Most political observers have noted that in order for Cuomo to be considered · a credible Presidential candidate in 1988, he would had, to have received at least 60 percent of the votes. In another important statewide election, incumbent Senator Alphonse D' Amato won a second six. year term in Washington. D'Amato, as of Tuesday evening, was projected to defeat Democratic newcomer Mark Green, 58 p.ercent to 41 percent. This result will help the Republicans in their quest to maintain control of the Senate. Unfortunately, the final tallies for all Senatorial races will not be known until early Wed- . nesday morning at the earnest. In local r:aces for the · Assembly and Senate, the best prediction available at the time ()f this Writing predicted all incumbents to Win reelection. These races included the one in the 107th Assembly district, which includes the Union College campus. This race featured incumbent James Tedisco, who successf1:JlJy ran -~gainst Democratic challenger -Carolyn ~cklas. Continued on page 2 presented to Assistant Dean of Students Robert J. Massa, who set up the date ofthe recall vote and asked both Morgan and Elkind to remain inactive in the operation of the station for the two weeks leading up to the vote. Morgan has since regained , his position as promotional manager to the station. Elkind: I feel that I still have much to contribute to the station. Morgan: Many people are making phenomenal efforts . . . Elkind has shown no such effort. At the general meeting, both Morgan and Elkind were alloted five minutes to present their argwnents, Which was followed by a fifteen minute question and answer session. Morgan used his five IJlinutes to outline the terms of the petition (see the Oct. 29th issue of Con· cordiensis) and questioned the dedication and leadership of Elkind. He concluded by stating that \Currently WRUC has no leader, and tonight we (the WRUC voting members) should elect one.\ · Elkind followed by listing many of his accomplishments at WRUC, including holding the positions of - pro.gramming director arid assistant music director, moving WRUCts on- air time from eight hours a day to twenty hours, training all of last year's new disc jockeys; establishing the new logging system at the station, and . - petitioning the Finance Com- mittee for money for the station's CD player. He then answered the charges brought against hirn in the petition, and concluded by St!yirig, \I would have resigned already (his term would have expired winter term), but I feel I still ·have much to contribute to the station.'' -· During the question and Continued Gn page 3 ·- hallway.s. A~ ionization smoke dete~tor. is located ap- proxunately every 10 feet in the hallways, as are additional heat detectors. Although · this protection is operated through an up-to-date centralized system and is carefully monitored by the Safety and Security department, it is not in direct compliance with the New York State law regarding specific fire protection in college dormitories. The New York State 1985 Session Laws (Chapter 683- Multiple Dwellings and Residences-Requirement of Smoke Detectors) states an amendment passed in August 1985 to have taken effect the following January: \In . . . sorority and fraternity houses, college and school donnitories . .. at least· one smoke detecting device shall be located within -····\ ' ' , ' ·-~ now} there a.re no smoke detectors in the actual bedroDms in the dorms, nor are there any in the donnitory apartments of the Residence Life area coordinators. Safety and Security Director Cliff Wood and Fire Marshall Barry Watkins spoke with the Schenectady Bureau of Code Enforcement October 10. Aceording to Wood, copfes of blueprints of Davidson (this dorm was used as a starting focal point) were submitted for review to Schenectady Building Inspector John Camilio; Camillo referred the prints to the state authorities saying that he would go along with whatever the state feels best. At present the College has not had any word fmm the New York State Edacational Code Enforcement Agency, although Continued on page 2- , PHOTO OF THE WEEK: A view of students gathered in the Library Plaza with Memorial Chapel and St. John's church behind. I. I . ' '

i I l Founded~ttt , 9 Unjon 4 ~,Col/ege 1877 ·# ___ '\ f~ . J:).•' CXVI, N,o. 9 Schenectady, New York November 6, 1986 Vandalism Jeopardizes library Extra Hours By MICHAEL SILBERSTEIN Ms. Ann Seeman, Director of the Schaffer Ubrary, met with the Student Affairs Corrunittee answering the Committee's request to allow the library to be open extra hours beginning the week before finals until the end of the tenn. The Committee asked that the library be kept open an additional few hours, especially since finals are quickly approaching. Ms. Seeman was very receptive to the idea and thought it was a plausible request. Towards the end of the term, dorms are too distractive. Although the classrooms which are kept open till 2 a.m. offer some alternatives for studying, often a small group of students pick an entire room to study in and lock the doQr that makes it impossible for only a limited number of students to study in classrooms. However, the proposal will not go through if a recurrent problem continues, that of vandalism: things as tom cards in the card catalogs, broken chairs, graffiti, and dismantled copy machines. This defacement of the library is further aggravated by students bringing food and drinks into the library. The importance of ~aintaining this policy is to pr6tect the books and special collections from insects, bacteria, and liquids which would otherwise be jeopardized. The final word from Schaffer Library comes down to that if the library time is to be granted to the students, the vandalism and disregard toward library policy must cease. If approved, hours will be an- nounced next week. Cliff ~J!foor;l, Director of Safety and S;curity, comments on the colleges VIOlation of the Fire Safety Code. WRUC Controversy Closes; Tatge Elected G.M. By BRIAN FERGUSON At a special general meeting Wednesday October 29, the WRUC voting members removed general manager Scott Elkind from his position. At the same meeting, music director Conrad Tatge was elected the new general manager. The meeting brought to a close a controversial two months at WRUC, as was reported in the October 29th issue of Concordiensis. To briefly recap the situation that was occuring at WRUC, promotional manager John Morgan had initiated a petition of recall against then general manager Elkind. More than twenty-five percent of the voting membership of WRUC signed the petition and it was presented to Assistant Dean of Students Robert J. Massa, who set up the date of the recall vote and asked both Morgan and Elkind to remain inactive in the operation of the station for the two weeks leading up to the vote. Morgan has since regained his position as promotional manager to the station. Elkind: I feel that I still have much to contribute to the station. Morgan: Many people are making phenomenal efforts . . . Elkind has shown no such effort. Few Election Surprises; Cuomo, D' Amato Win At the general meeting, both Morgan and Elkind were alloted five minutes to present their arguments, which was followed by a fifteen minute question and answer session. Morgan used his five minutes to outline the terms of the petition (see the Oct. 29th issue of Con- cordiensis) and questioned the dedication and leadership of Elkind. He concluded by stating that \Currently WRUC has no leader, and tonight we (the WRUC voting members) should elect one.\ ByPAULSCHOP Incumbent govemor Mario Cuomo, the chief architect of the twenty-one year old drinking age, was handed an unprecedented mandate by New York's voters last Tuesday. Cuomo, as of 11 p.m. ET, with 37 per(!ent of the votes counted, had 65 percent of the votes. Andrew O'Rourke had 31 percent. The size of Cuomo's victory was the largest ever ~iven to a gubernatorial candidate, in New York. The previous record margin in a New York guber- natorial election was held by Grover Cleveland, who won 58.1 percent of the vote in 188(). Cleveland successfully ran for President in 1884. Most political observers have noted that in order for Cuomo to be considered a credible Presidential candidate in 1988, he would had to have received at least 60 percent of the votes. In another important statewide election, incumbent Senator Alphonse 0' Amato won a second six year term in Washington. D' Amato, as of Tuesday evening, was projected to defeat Democratic newcomer Mark Green, 58 percent to 41 percent. This result will help the Republicans in their quest to maintain control of the Senate. Unfortunately, the final tallies for all Senatorial races will not be known until early Wed- nesday morning at the earliest. In local races for the Assembly and Senate, the best prediction available at the time of this writing predicted all incumbents to win reelection. These races included the one in the 107th Assembly district, which includes the Union College campus. This race featured incumbent James Tedisco, who successfully ran ~gainst Democratic challenger Carolyn Micklas. Continued on page 2 Elkind followed by listing many of his accomplishments at WRUC, including holding the positions of programming director and assistant music director, moving WRUC's on- air time from eight hours a day to twenty hours, training all of last year's new disc jockeys, establishing the new logging system at the station, and · petitioning the Finance Com- mittee for money for the station's CD player. He then answered the charges brought against him in the petition, and concluded by S(!ying, \I would have resigned already (his tenn would have expired winter tenn), but I feel I still have much to contribute to the station.\ During the question and Continued on page 3 College In Violation of Fire Safety Code Davidson Fire Promotes Discovery Union Taking Action to Comply By LORI LEON As a result of ConcordiellSis investigation into the Sep- tember 29 Davidson fire, the Department of Security on Safety has become aware that they are in violation of both a local and New York State fire .E code safety law. This has. _g prompted recent measures by a. Union to amend this. (I) The College provides both - heat and smoke detectors in its dormitories, fraternity-soro- rity, and independent houses so that residents may be assured a certain degree of fire protec- tion. There is a heat detector (which reacts to 130 degrees of concentrated heat) in each dorm room (suite and bedroom) as well as in kitchens and hallways. A ionization smoke detector is located ap- proximately every 10 feet in the hallways, as are additional heat detectors. Although this protection is operated through an up-to-date centralized system and is carefully monitored by the Safety and Security department, it is not in direct compliance with the New Yor~ .stat.e law reg!!rding spec1f1c f1re protectiOn in college dormitories. The New York State 1985 Session Laws (Chapter 683- Multiple Dwellings and Residences-Requirement of Smoke Detectors) states an amendment passed in August 1985 to have taken effect the following January: \In . . . sorority and fraternity houses, college and school dormitories . .. at least one smoke detecting device shall be located within -· ' \ each room used for sleeping purposes.\ As basic local laws do not override state laws, Schenectady County's stan- dards are of the same accord: the City Council Ordinance 81- 37, Section 11-46 reads \One smoke detector alarm device shall be provided in each dor-- mitory sleeping unit.\ As of . . ln1Jis lssne.· Adamant~ Rot. Ask ~\un .. p .. 6 •. ......_. c N Suzanne Vega at Union CSN at RPI .. p. 11 ~tugger Chosen AthJetecft-llt Week·~ P~>-15 now, there are no smoke detectors in the actual bedrooms in tlle donns, nor are there any in the dormitory apartments of the Residence Life area coordinators. Safety and Security Director Cliff Wood and Fire Marshall Barry Watkins spoke with the Schenectady Bureau of Code Enforcement October 10. According to Wood, copies of blueprints of Davidson (this dorm was used as a starting focal point) were submitted for review to Schenectady Building Inspector John Camilio; Camillo referred the prints to the state authorities saying that he would go along with whatever the state feels best. At present the College has not had any word from the New York State Educational Code Enforcement Agency, although Continued on page 2 '.l1i;\ r. \ • . . :5 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: A view of students gathered in the Library Plaz:a with Memorial Chapel and St. John's church behind.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, November 6, 1'986 Jack Hill, director of campus operations, will be requesting the installation of smoke detectors in dorm bet:lrooms. NEWS Prof. Underwood Guest on WMHT's \The Round Table\ Last Tuesday night, political science professor James · Underwood appeared on \The &und Table\ of Schenectady's public television station, WMHT. Underwood was one of Foundation has awarded a grant of $15,000 to Union to . support the interdisciplinary Quantitative Preceptorial component of the Sloan New Liberal Arts program. Tech for Third ·World Women Discussed four poUtical experts who were Dr. Barrett Hazeltine, ask~ to conunent on this year's professor of engineering and gubernatorial and senatorial associate dean of Brown elections. The program was University, will speak on the aired from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m. ET. topic \Appropriate Technology Among the questions asked of for Third World Women.\ The Professor Underwood was one talk is co-sponsored by the by Jay Grossman, '87 to engineering d~partment and comment on Democrat Mark Women's Studies. Green's chances to defeat Hazeltine has received incmnbent senator AI D' Amato. several awards for excellence Underwood replied to answer in teaching and his main that \I don't like to be placed on mterests include engineering the spot,\ andthenproceededto management, technology answer by saying that the l<Jw planning, a.nd digital voter turnout would severely cpmputers. He has also taught hamper Green's chances. and consulted in Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Thailand. WWII Vet Wills Estate to National Debt Ben Kamin, a World War II veteran who passed away last December at 71, was granted his dying wish this past week by a circuit court judge when his estate of more than $270,000 was donated to the United States Treasury Department for the national debt. The debt which presently stands at $2.1 trillion is now with Kamin's donation, $271,956.38 less or about a .001 percent decrease in the national debt (or a .00001 change). Acquaintances said Katnin, whose rather large estate is partly shrouded in mystery, was \never the same after the fighting he saw while serving in the U.S. Axmy,\ according to The Schenectady Gazette. Pew Trust and GE Award Union with $315,000 in Grants Union College has received a $300,000 grant fro~ the Pew Memorial Trust of Philadelphia to support a program to automate the bibliographic, circulation, and other systems of Schaffer Library. The grant will be used to help purchase the equipment and software to provide an integrated and interactive library automation system. The two main components of the system will be an online public access catalog and an automated circulation system. The online catalog will replace the card catalog as the major bibliographic tool in the library and the circulation module will allow for the maintenance of all patron records. The General Electric The presentation will be Tuesday, November 11 in Social Sciences, Room 110, at 12:30 p.m. and is open to the public. Union Student in Schd'y Accident Driver Slapped · with DWI Late Sunday night, a Union student was involved in a one- car crash at the Schenectady County Airport. The Union student, Andrew Bick '89, along with three Clarkson students apparently drove into the airport area. to attempt to see how fast their car could travel down the runway. However, 'the car a 1969 Pontiac, became \ai~borne for about 150 feet and crashed into an embanlanent\ and rolled about 200 feet downhill, according to the Glenvine police. As of. Monday night, Clarkson student, John Stanley, .19, was reported in 'fair condition' at Ellis Hospital. All of the other three were treated earlier and released. The fo.ur students were returning from the Crosby, Stills and Nash concert at R.P.I., earlier that evening. Michael Furey, a Clarkson sophomore, was charged with driving while intoxicated along with the criminal trespassing charge .that all four received. The crash is presently under investigation. S. African Activist . to Speak on Apa1theid. S. Sandile Ngcobo, black South African lawyer and activist will present \After Apartheid,'' a lecture sponsored by the Minority Dialogue Series and the International Education Installation of Smoke ,Detectors Promotes Both Safety and Problems Continued.ftom page 1 plans are being drawn . and · estimates, researched to initiate the installation of smok:e detectors m each ''dormitory sleeping unit.\ Wood and Jack Hill, director of campus operations, are requesting a budget for this from John Hauser, vice president for finance. and admi:nistration. · Wood noted that the cost will be approximately $90,000. However, \it shouldn't take that long\ to put in the smoke detectors and hardwire them into the present Honeywell system (thus ringing in at . Fmtd. Ngcobo was born in Durban, South Africa in 1953 and was the founder and president of the • Legal Office Workers' Union in South Africa. He was employed from 1982-1985 With the Legal Resources Centre of Durban. The Centre is a public intere~ law firm which has been involved in a number of landmark cases ranging from defending the rights .of blacks to live in cities and to fonn tiade unions. Ngcobo is a 1986 graduate at Harvard Law School. The lecture will take place Friday, November 7 in the Humanities Building, Room 114, at 2:30p.m. Election Results . ., • Continued from page 1 In other Schenectady CoWlty races, inclU1lbent Republican Senator Hugh Farley defeated Paul Perillo. Also, lOath district Assemblyman Paul Tonkowon a second full tenn representing his district, Which includes Rotterdam, and western Schenectady County. · The simple difference bet- ween heat ·and smoke detectors is ob'Viot!S in the names of the two different types of equip- ment. l\.s proven by the . Sep- tember fire ·in Davidson, the heat detectors do work well (within.ni.Jnutes), but it is more than probable that had a smok~ deteCtor been in the room, It would .have reacted more quickly. Bllt the problems that smoke detectors, might con- ceivably create cannot be overlooked. Since ionization smoke detectors are more sensitive than heat detectors; it is possible that there woUld \be more false alarms than those that. presently occur. A case in point b. that of Skidmore College. The S;iratoga County college, which ls primarily residenti!ll, ~e Unio~, does have smoke detectors m each dormitory bedroom but they are not hooked to a central system. ·Rather, when one is set off, the student iis responsible for in· forming tb.e .security depart- ment to have it tl,ll'lled off. When questioned, Skidmore Directpr .of Residence Life Don Hastings said tllat students are h . \ . somewhat ''leg argtc m responding to freq.uen~ ,fi.re drills caused by such sens1tlv1ty of smoke detectors. This might be a concern at Union, .as Wood ~orks toward \top compliance w1th the letter of the law.'' Being a Marine Corps Officer can ~pen the door to opportuni~es each paying more than $1100 you may have thought were bey<Jod your reach. It helped Manne • Juniors train in one ten-week summer session and.f<ll'U more Officer CharJes.Bolden become a.NASA astronaut. And if you're than $1900 willing to make the commibnent, it could help you also. You can • Free civilian Hying lessons get started while you're in college with out Platoon Leaders Class • A starting salary of more than $17,000. undergradllite officer commissi()ning ' Immediately dpon graduation you program. You could take advantage r----. -----------. could become a Marine of gelling: II~ •voft('lli'IU Officer. It'syoruchoice. • $100amonthwhileinschoo1 ,,C,. JT\--~j 11\1 Maybeyou'retl!e.kind<Jf • F \eshmen and Sophomores train. 14 84 a'S a~ manwe'rel()Okingfor. · 'n ~ · · JJel. mt.,W,: .. dbraiewgoodlllell. duringtwosix-weeksummersesslons U U . . ·. . .IUVftLf~t; as you can. \

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, November 6, 1986 0 ..... 0 .c a. Jack Hill, director of campus operations, will be requesting the installation of smo~edetectors in dorm bel'jrooms. Installation of Smoke Detectors Promotes Both Safety and Problems Continued from page 1 plans are being drawn and estimates researched to initiate the instalilation of smoke · detectors in each \dormitory sleeping unit.'' Wood and Jack Hill, director of campus operations, are requesting a budget f()r this from Jolm Hauser, vice president for finance and administration. Wood noted that the cost will be approximately $90,000. However, ''it shouldn't take that long\ to put in the smoke detectors and hardwire them into the present Honeywell system (thus ringing in at Security's central desk when set off), and he seems optimistic that it could take place by the end of this coming January. While Security has had a good NEWS BRIEFS · record in handling fires on. campus, the department was not aware that it was not complying with the literal law of New York State, though the College has obviously been in accordance with the general intent of the previous regulations in having such a modern system. Wood said he knew of the state amendment being passed, but he did not think the College would be af- fected by it because the College system was highly developed. Union's fire safety program overachieves some legal requirements, and is fairly Wlique. The simple difference bet· ween heat and smCJke detectors is obvious in the ilwnes of the two different t~s of equip- ment. As proven by the . Sep- tember fire in Davidson, the heat detectors do work well (within minutes), but it is more than probable that had a smoke detector been in the raom, it would have reacted more quickly. But the problems that smoke detecters might con· ceivably create cannot be overlooked. Since ionization smoke detectors are more sensitive than heat detectors, it is possible that there would be more false alanns than those that presently occur. A case in point is that of Skidmore College. The Saratoga County college, which is. primarily residential, like Union, does have smoke detectors in each dormitory bedroom but they are not hooked to a central system. Rather, when one is set off, the student is resp<>nsible for in· forming the security depart· ment to have it turned off. When questioned, Skidmore Director of Residence Life Don Hastings said that students are somewhat ''leghargic'' in respo:nding to frequent fire drills caused by such sensitivity of smoke detect<lrs. __ P_r_o-f._U_n_d_e_r--. 0 - 0 -d __ , Foundation has awarded a •• grant of $15,000 to Union to Guest on WMHT's support the interdisciplinary \The Round Table'' Quantitative Preceptorial C()m}l()nent of the Sloan New Last Tuesday nig)Jt, political science profess()r James Underwood appeared on ''The Round Table\ of Scllen.ectady's public televisioll station, WMHT. Underwood vwa.s one of four political experts who were asked to comment on this year's gubernatorial and :;enatorial elections. The pr()gl'am was aired from 9 p.m. to lOp.m. ET. Among the questi(J)n::J asked of Professor Underwo()tl was one by Jay Grossman, '87 to comment on Democ1-at Mark Green's chances to defeat incumbent senator AI I>'Amato. Underwood replied to answer that \I don't like to be polaced on the spot,'' and then proeeeded to answer by saying tllat the low voter turnout wouid severely hamper Green's challlce~. WWII Vet Wills Estate tCJ National D~!)t Ben Kamin, a W()rid War II veteran who passed. away last December at 71, w;as granted his dying wish this pas:t 'Week by a circuit court judg~ when his estate of more than $\·2?0 was donated to the Unitecl States Treasury Department for the national debt. The debt which presently stands at $2:.1 trillion is now with Kamin':; dllnation, $271,956.38 less or allou:t a .001 percent decrease in tllenational debt (or a .00001 chmge). Acquaintances said Kamin, whose rather large Estate is partly shrouded in mystery, was \never the samE after the fighting he saw while s-Erving in the U.S. Army,\ acoeorc:ling to Tbe Schenectady Ga2ette. Pew Trust a11.J G E Award UE1ion with $315,C)t)() in Grants Union College has received a $300,000 grant from the Pew Memorial Trust of Pltl111delphia to support a pr()grarn to automate the bi bli~grapbic, rirculation, and other systems of Srhaff('r T .ibrary ThP ~nmt wi11 be tiSed to help purchase the equiplrlent and software to provide an integrated and illlteractivc library automation system. The two main compone11ts of the system will be an o11li:Jte public access catalog a11d an automated circulati10m .system. The online catalog v;;j!IJ replace 1 the ~ard catalog as tFle major i bibliographic tool in th:e library and the circulation module will I allow for the mainterumce of all patron records. The General Electric Liberal Arts program. Tech for Third World Women Discussed Dr. Barrett Hazeltine, professor of engineering and associate dean of Brown University, will speak on the topic \Appropriate Tecbnology for Third World Women.\ The talk is co-sponsored by the engineering department and Women's Studies. Hazeltine has received several awards for excellence in teaching and his main interests include engineering management, technology planning, and digital computers. He has also taught and consulted in Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines, Taiwan, and Thailand. The presentation will be Tuesday, November 11 in Social Sciences, Room 110, at 12: 30 p.m. and is open to the public. Union Student in Schd'y Accident Driver Slapped with DWI Late Sunday night, a Union student was involved in a one- car crash at the Sch~nectady County Airport. The Union student, Andrew Bick '8!1, along with three Clarkson students apparently drove into the airport area to attempt to see how fast their car could travel down the rWlway. However, the car, a 1969 Pontiac, became \airborne for about 150 feet and crashed into an embankment\ and rolled about 200 feet d()wnhill, according to the Glenville police. As of Monday night, Clarkson student, John Stanley, 19, was reported in 'fair condition' at Ellis Hospital. All of the other three were treated earlier and released. The four students were returning from the Crosby, Stills and Nash concert at R.P.I., earlier that evening. Michael Furey, a Clarkson sophomore, was charged with llriving while lntoxi<:ated along with the crirninal trespassing charge that all fom received. The crash is presently under investigation. S. African Acth·ist to Speak on Apak theid S. Sandile Ngcobo, black South African I a w yer and activist will present \After Apartheid,\ a lecture sponsored by the Minority Dialogue Series and the International Education Fund. Ngcobo was born in Durban, South Africa in 1953 and was the fotmder and president of the Legal Office Workers' Union in South Africa. He was employed from 1982·1985 with the Legal Resources Centre of Durban. The Centre is a public interest Ia w firm which has been involved in a number of landmark cases ranging from defending the rights of blacks to live in cities and to form trade unions. N'gcobo is a 1986 graduate at Harvard Law School. The lecture will take place Friday, November 7 in the Humanities Building, Room 114, at 2:30 p.m. Election Results • • • Continued fr()m page 1 In other Schenectady County races, incumbent Republican Senator Hugh Farley defeated Paul Perillo. Also, 105th district Assemblyman Paul Tonkowon a second full term representing his district, which includ-es Rotterdam, and western Schenectady CoWity. Wood said he knew of the state amendment being passed, but . • • did not think the college would be affected. Each yea:r the smoke detectors are upgraded and checked for sensitivity. The particular type of smoke detectors at Union are ionization ones, meaning that they are extremely sensitive and at times can be set off merely by the collection of dust within the unit. However, this type of equipment is ad- vantageous, as it detects fire smoke very quickly. (Smoke is usually more prominent in the beginning stages of a fire as opposed to 130 degrees of concentrated heat.) Regarding the College's fire protection program, Hill stated before the review by the building inspector that \We feel that (the present system) gives us the necessary degree of safety . . . (though) if it is necessary that smoke detectors be installed (in each bedroom), they will be.'' Added Wood, \Not once would we let something go by that we felt was dangerous to the students.\ This might be a concern at Union, as Wood works toward \top compliance with the letter of the law.\ $$$$ TYPING .DOLLARS A gift certificate suva gift certificate f()f' a friend. Ws worth fr~ typir\9 done t(lr them. $5.00 and IJp, Call 346· Ol44 or Ext. 613:0. l Being a Marine Corps Officer can open the door to opportunities you may llave thought were beyond your reach. It helped Marine Officer Charles Bolden become a NASA astronaut. And if you're willing to make the commitment. it could help you also. You can get startedwhi.le you're in coUege with our Platoon Leaders Oass undergradl.lllte officer commissioning each paying more than $1100 program. You could take advantage of getting: • $100 a month while in school • Freshmen and Sophomores train during two six-week summer sessions • Juniors train in one ten-week summer session and earn more than $1900 • Free civilian Dying lessons • A starting salary of more than $17,000 m .. ewant~u togo as .tar as you can. Immediately upon graduation you could become a Marine ~· ~, Officer. It's your choice. . . Maybe you're the kind of man we're looking for. Jle~looking !Or afiwtoot} men. ,' .. > I i', ., •' '· j', !

\ CONCORDfENSIS, November 6, 1986 Page3 Jonas Delivers Lectur~ ~n Int'l. Power Marks Nomination To Bigelow Ch·air .By PA1:JL.SCJIIOP History professor Manfred Jonas delivered a speech entitled ,-'.Allies of a Eind: Some Reflections on 'Imtetcourse Among Nations\ on'Thursday, October 30. The speecll markeq Pl\ofe~;sor Jonas' l:l$Su.m.ption of the. John BigelDw Endowed Chair. After brief introd11.rtions by President .Morris and Neil Allen, the previous Jl(Jlder of the Big~low Chair; Profes~or Jonas began his lecture. .rhe focus of the speech was on. tbe ways in which nations try ~o influence other nations. The Bigelow Cltair was named in honor of John BigelQw; a member '(Jf Union's class of 1835. Bigelow is remembered for niatty notable achievements, such as being co- editor of the New YCJrk.Eveniog Post, with WiUiam Cullen Bryant. He also helped tO, found the New York Pu:bli~ Library. · Bigelow, however, is best remembered for his service in the .American diplollllltic corps. During the Civil War, Bigelow served as consul general in the American embassy lo France. While there, he w:rote many articles under pen nlllnes, and these letters were instnunental in keeping the French government from a!ig11i.ng itself with the Confederaey. As a ~reward for these services, he . was named Ambassador to France, after tlie woar-. · Professor Jonas used Bigelow's exploits 111 France during the Cbdl War to show how one nation may try to influence another nati~n. Jonas then discuss.ed other ways in whic]] ,one nation may try to influence another. 'rJJis part of the lecture imvolved a discussion of America, 's role in creating West Germany's economic and p<ilitical structure in tile years immediately after V/()rld War II. Jonas' closing :remarks concerned the way in which nations as a whole aet toward each other in the global Are Yo11 a Rarity? Do you have an eccentric or unique hobby? No:w is your chance to expose yoiJ!rsel.f- to appear in the Uniort College Magazine as well as your hometown newspaper. If you meet this description <>r know· · of someone who dC>es, please ca II 393-5365 arld ask for llys~e. · community. Small nations, according to Jonas, act in one of · two different ways, both of which resemble ~he __ ways in · which small children behave; One ·way is to act docile .and hope to be ignored. The other ' way is to act outrageously and draw the .attention of larger nations. Large nations, according to Jonas, act in different ways, compared to small nations. • Powerful nations try. to influence otl1er nations, even other powerful nations. Jonas's examples included the United States' intervention in Viet normal relations with each other without reunification. · · . Professor Jonas is a graduate · of the City ~llege ofNew York. He received his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1959. He bas been a professor at Union since 1963. Prior to . ooing named to the Bigelow Cbair, Professor Jonas has 13erved as chainnan of the history department, and as the holder of tile Washington Irving Chair, in ilistory. In addition, he has .ooen a visiting professo~ at both the Free Univer~lity of Berlin and the Eotus Lorand Universit:v .of B1,1dapest. His most recent book, The UDited States and Germany: A . Nam, aid to the contras, and the use of American economic pressure to influence Japan and the Soviet Union. · Oiplomatie History, was published in 1984. Prof .. Jone~s, holder of the Bigelow Chair, lectured on internation·al power conflicts. The afternoon ended with Professor Jonas . fielding questions from the audience. In answer to a question on whether the UN could ever ·be. a truly · effective organization, Jonas felt that it could not, unless ,the United States and the USSR agreed to cooperate. . Another question dealt with German reunification. Jonas cailedthis issue a ''false issue\ and argued ~hat if a referendUm. on reWlification were to be held in East and West Germany, that neither country would :vote in favor of it. He did feel that the Berlin Wall could be taken down ijl our lifetime, and that the two German ·states could have - . ··Final Thoughts On Debate. Controversy By PAULSCHOP· This year's gubernatorial · ·campaign is now officially over. While the results are not expected to surprise anyone, · the hottest issue in this ·. campaign was a surprise. Instead oi .focusing on such controversial· subjects as abortion, taJtes, or even the . drinking age, the two major party candidates, Governor . Mario Cuomo and Republican Andrew O'Rourke focused on . . . the issue of whether or not there should have been a debate, to the near exclusion of everything else. In an effort to better understand this issue, Concordlensis has asked two knowledgeable pofitical observers to comment on it. The first observer is Professor .James Underwood, of the political science department, this year included Dennis Dillon, the Right To Life party's candidate for governor. Professor Underwood felt that the presence of such candidates was unnecessary at such debates. \There should be at least one debate between the Republican and Democratic candidates. There should be W-RUCkus Concludes; Ta.tge Promotes 11 Continuity\ • who has been a longtime observer of New York State politics in general, and of Cuomo in particular. The second observer is Andree Marr, a member of the State Board of Directors of the League of Women Voters of New York State. · some sort of forum for the minor party candidates, since it is hard for them to get media exposure,\ said Underwood . When asked to elaborate on this point, Underwood added, \Minor party candidates do not have much of a chance to win, and their presence at debates between the major parties candidates confuses voters. The New York Times debate was not well designed. There were three candidates there, and it became very informal.'' Continued. from page 1 answer .ses~ion, Morgan was asked if he felt ·the station was running badly. He responded by saymg, \No because many people are making phenomenal efforts, such as Conrad Tatge (music director} and &!ton Srdonavlc (te_chnical manager). Scott .Elkind has shown no such·effort.'' Perhaps the most damaging blow to Elkind's chances oc- WE WANT TO STOP· THE WINTER DOLDRUMS! I The Social Committee is looking for ideas for Winter Term. We have money with which we can fund events open to the campus. If you can think of sometlng that you thinkpeoplewouldenjoy having or. doing here at Union, or just want to help, drop a· note to box 2458. ' THAT'S BOX 2 4 58. Thank Y(Ju. cured when WRUC member Mike Rohan accused Elkind of stealing a copy of the petition from his notebook. Elkind responded by saying that the petition was on a desk and he took it because the petition was being circulated behind .his back, and he wanted to see the charges against him. However, Elkind's trumworthiness was in doubt after this charge. . After the q11estion and answer session, tile VQte on the recall took place, with the result being 39-31 in favor of removing Elkind from the ~eneral manager position. No!lllllations for a new general manager werethen taken and the election took place. Tatge easily defeated production manager John Bok and will take over as general manager for the remainder of Elkind's tenn. Tatge commented on the events, saying \It was a conflict on the exec11tive board that was resolved by the general membership. Now, people are psyched abollt the continuity on tlle board,\ Both observers agreed that there should have been a debate . between Governor Cuomo and · O'Rourke. Both were . also disappointed with the New York Tbnes' sponsored debate on October 30. To quote Professor Underwood, \I think that there should have been a debate. I think that it is in the interest of the voters to have the candidates debate in major elections.\ Marr's thoughts on this point were very similar to Underwood's. She said, \It is important to hold debates because the candidates need to discuss the issues, and the voters need to know r~' Marr also added, \I think that it is important that these debates be held more than one week before the election.,; The observers, however, disagreed on the need for minor party candidates to participate in debates between Republican and Democratic gubernatorial . candidates. The one debate held Wocdrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs Princeton University Graduate Education· for Careers in Public Affairs International Relations Development Studies . Domestic Policy Economics and Public Policy \ . .Date: Friday, November 14 Time: 12:30p.m. Place: BH 102 Presentation and question-and-answer session will be held with.a Woodrow Wilson School representative_ App.lications are be.ing .accepted for several openings in the Union College Student Investment Fund. The Fund arose from a $50/000 contribution from a Union parent. The Fund is presently active, and there are places for several students. Members must have taken Economics 34 (Financial Analysis). To apply/ submit a transcript and a lette.r stating. why y·ou wish to be a member of the Fund to Professor Prosper, Chairman of the Economics Department. Application deadline is . November 18, Marr believes that miiior party candidates should be included in gubernatorial debates. When asked about this issue, Marr answered, \In the case of the five recognized parties in New York State, the candidates ought to have a right to be heard.\ In the course of the interview, Marr. described the League of Women Voters' efforts to organize a gubernatorial debate. \We began in March to try tD set up a debate in Rochester in conjunction With the school board convention on October 17. We never heard conclusively from Cuomo. O'Rourke was willing to debate. We also invited Dennis Dillon.\ Marr continued, \We bad to cancel the debate four days before it was to be held because we · had no word from the governor as to his plans. In my . personal opinion, I thought that the school board convention would have been a good audience for Cuomo, since he has made education his most important priority.\ Professor Underwood was also asked to conunent on how this debate controversy might affect a possible Presidential campaign by Cuomo in 1988. Underwood said, \Well he would not be running against an inciUllbent. Therefore, he would not be in a position to demand something that he would not give, himself.\ Underwood continued,. \The image that got into the media about Cuomo was negaUve. For example, the New York Times'· endorsement, on November 2, said that it was a warm endorsement, but still criticized the governor for being contentious, mishandling Tierschfeld, and dragging out the debate issue. The New York TJmes is read outside of New York State. Cuomo also received bad press in the Washington Post. Before this election, I had not seen any bad press on Cuomo.\ 0 0 .s::: 0. (!) ,, ' 't I \

i' I ' H ! ,, 11 lj ., I a :I ll ! i', ., •' ,j I\ ! CONCORDIENSIS, November6, 1986 PageJ Jonas Delivers Lecture on Int'l. Power Marks Nomination To Bigelow Chair ByPAULSCHOP History professor Manfred Jonas delivered a speech entitled \Allies of a Kind: Some Reflectiens on Intercourse .Among Nations\ on Thursday, October 30. The speech marked Professor Jonas' assumption of the John Bigelow Endowed Chair. After brief introductions by President . Morris and Neil Allen, the previous holder of the Bigelow Chair, Professor Jonas began his lecture. The focus of the speech was on the ways in which nations try to influence other nations. The Bigelo\'t Chair was named in honor of John Bigelow, a member of Union's class of 1835. Bigelow is remembered for many notable achievements, such as being co- editor of the New York Evening Post, with William Cullen Bryant. He also helped to found the New York Public library. Bigelow, however, is best remembered for his service in the American diplomatic corps. During the Civil War, Bigelow served as consul general in the American embassy in France. While there, he wrote many articles under pen names, and these letters were instrumental in keeping the French government from aligning itself with the Confederacy. As a reward for these services, he was named Ambassador to France, after the war. Professor Jonas used Bigelow's exploits in France during the Civil War to show how one nation may try to influence another nation. Jonas then discussed other ways in which one nation may try to influence another. This part of the lecture involved a discussion of America's role in creating West Germany's economic and political structure in the years immediately after World War II. Jonas' closing remarks concerned the way in which nations as a whole act toward each other in the global Are You a Rarity? Do you have an eccentric or unique hobby? Now is your chance to expose yourself · to appear in the Union College Magazine as well as your hometown Aewspaper. If you meet this description or know of someone who does, please call 393·5365 and ask for llysse. community. Small nations, according to Jonas, act in one of two different ways, both of which resemble the ways in which small children behave. One way is to act docile and hope to be ignored. The other way is to act outrageously and draw the attention of larger nations. Large nations, according to Jonas, act in different ways, compared to sma~l nations. Powerful nations try to influence other nations, even other powerful nations. Jonas's examples included the United States' intervention in Viet Nam, aid to the contras, and the use of American economic pressure to influence Japan and the Soviet Union. The afternoon ended with Professor Jonas fielding questions from the audience. In answer to a question on whether the UN could ever be a truly effective organization, Jonas felt that it could not, unless the United States and the USSR agreed to cooperate. . Another question dealt with German reunification. Jonas called this issue a \false issue\ and argued that if a referendum on reunification were to be held in East and West Germany, that neither country would vote in favor of it. He did feel that the Berlin Wall could be taken down in our lifetime, and that the two German ·states could have normal relations with each other without reunification. Professor Jonas is a graduate of the City College of New York. He received his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1959. He has been a professor at Union since 1963. Prior to being named to the Bigelow Chair, Professor Jonas has served as chairman of the history department, and as the holder efthe Washington Irving Chair, in history. In addition, he has been a visiting professor at · both the Free University of Berlin and the Eotus Lorand University of Budapest. His rnost recent book, The United . Sta1tes and Germany: A Diplomatic History, was published in 1984. Prof. Jonas, holder of the Bigelow Chair, lectured on internation·al power confHcts. Final Thoughts On Debate Controversy ByPAULSCHOP This year's gubernatorial \Campaign is now officially over. While the results are not expected to surprise anyone, the hottest issue in this campaign was a surprise. Instead ef focusing on such controversial subjects as abortion, taxes, or even the drinking age, the two major party candidates, Governor Mario Cuomo and Republican Andrew O'Rourke focused on the issue of whether or not there should have been a debate, to the near exclusion of everything else. this year included Dennis Dillon, the Right To Life party's candidate for governor. W-RUCkus Concludes; Tatge Promotes 11 Continuity\ In an effort to better understand this issue, Concordiensis has asked two knowledgeable political observers to comment on it. The first observer is Professor .James Underwood, of the political science department, who has been a longtime observer of New York State politics in general, and of Cuomo in particular. The second observer is Andree Marr, a member of the State Board of Directors of the League of Women Voters of New York State. Professor Underwood felt that the presence of such candidates was unnecessary at such debates. \There should be at least one debate between the Republican and Democratic candidates. There should be some sort of forwn for the minor party candidates, since it is hard for them to get media exposure,\ said Underwo()d. When asked to elaborate on this point, Underwood added, \Minor party candidates do not have much of a chance to win, and their presence at debates between the major parties candidates confuses voters. The New York Times debate was not well designed. There were three candidatesthere,andnbecante very informal.\ Continued from page 1 answer session, Morgan was asked if he felt the station was running badly. He responded by saying, \No because many people are making phenomenal efforts, such as Conrad Tatge (music director) and Anton Srdonavic (technical manager). Scott Elkind has shown no such- effort.\ Perhaps the most damaging blow to Elkind's chances oc- WE WANT TO STOP THE WINTER DOLDRUMS!! The Social Committee is looking for ideas for Winter Term. We have money with which we can fund events open to the campus. If you can think of someting that you think people would enjoy l:laving or doing here at Union, or just want to help, drop a note to box 2458. THAT'S BOX 2 4 S 8. Thank You. cured when WRUC member Mike Roban accused Elkind of stealing a copy of the petitien from his notebook. Elkind responded by saying that the petition was on a desk and he took it because the petition was being circulated behind his back, and he wanted to see the charges against him. However, Elkind's trustworthiness was in d<Jubt after this charge. After the question and answer session, the vote on the recall took place, with the result being 39-31 in favor of removing Elkind from the general manager position. Nominations for a new general manager were then taken and the election took place. Tatge easily defeated production manager John Bok and will take over as general manager for the remainder of Elkind's term. Tatge commented on the events, saying \It was a conflict on the executive board that was resolved by the general membership. Now, people are psyched about the continuity on the board.\ Both observers agreed that there should have been a debate between Governor Cuomo and O'Rourke. Both were also disappointed with the New York Times' sponsored debate on October 30. To quote Professor Underwood, \I think that there should have been a debate. I think that it is in the interest of the voters to have the candidates debate in major elections.\ Marr's thoughts on this point were very similar to Underwood's. She said, \It is important to hold debates because the candidate~ need to discuss the issues, and the voters need to knew.'' Marr also added, \I think that it is important that these debates be held more than one week before the election.\ The observers, however, disagreed on the need for minor party candidates to participate in debates between Republican and Democratic gubernatorial candidates. The one debate held Wooorow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs Princeton Un1versity Graduate Education for Careers in Public Affairs International Relations Development Studies Domestic Policy Economics and Public Policy Date: Friday, November 14 Time: 12:30 p.m. Place: BH 102 Presemation and question-and-answer session will be held with a Woodrow Wilson School repre!oentativc. Applications are being accepted for several openings in the Union College Student Investment Fund. The Fund arose from a $50,000 contribution from a Union parent. The Fund is presently active, and there are places for several students. Members must have taken Economics 34 (Financial Analysis). To apply, submit a transcript and a letter stating why you wish to be a member of the Fund to Professor Prosper, Chairman of the Economics Department. Application deadline is November 18. Marr believes that minor party candidates should be included in gubernatorial debates. When asked about this issue, Marr answered, \In the case of the five recognized parties in New York State, the candidates ought to have a right to be heard.\ In the course of the interview, Marr described the League of Women Voters' efforts to organize a gubernatorial debate. \We began in March to try to set up a debate in Rochester in conjunction with the school board convention on October 17. We never heard conclusively from Cuomo. O'Rourke was willing to debate. We also invited Dennis Dillon.'' Marr continued, \We had to cancel the debate four days before it was to be held because we had no word from the governor as to his plans. In my personal opinion, I thought that the school board convention would have been a good audience for Cuomo, since he has made education his most important priority.'' Professor Underwood was also asked to comment on how this debate controversy might affect a possible Presidential campaign by Cuomo in 1988. Underwood said, \Well he would not be running against an incumbent. Therefore, he would not be in a position to demand something that he would not give, himself.\ Underwood continued, \The linage that got into the media about Cuomo was negative. For example, the New York Times' endorsement, on November 2, said that it was a warm endorsement, but still criticized the governor for being contentious, mishandling rlerschfeld, and dragging out the debate issue. The New York Times is read outside of New York State. Cuomo also received bad press in the Washington Post. Before this election, I had not seen any bad press on Cuomo.\ 0 - 0 J: 0. c:l ! ' .

. !»age4 CONCQRDIENSIS, No.vember 6, 1986 . FEATURES Talk of t·he Town D3llas Revisited The Concordy recently asked: \In what respe~t do you think morals and ethics should be taught at Union .. if at all?·\ ByPAULSCHOP As of today, Thanksgiving is only three weeks away. WhUe most Union students are eagerly anticipating warm family gatherings, M. Herman Davis's thoughts are on another topic. His mind is currently .precccupied with thoughts of the Kennedy assassination, since that tragedy has been the basis for a great deal of memorable television drama for almost a quarter ·of a century. This week, by combining an episode of Dallas with the final Part of a mini-series on President room· and hadToverheard the end of his conversation. They were l>Dth furious. _ ''lcan't belive you two,\ said Bobby. ''I can't stand the sight of either one of you any mote. I'm leaving and I'm never coming back.\ Professor G. Gmelch- Dept. · of Anthro.-scciology ~.'Morals and ethics are relative-they vary from one culture to another. It is important to teach students tllat from a cross-cultured perspective · there are no absolutes. Like anyone els'e, faculty have the right to express their.. own feelings about morality, but it should be made clear that there may be other, equally valid perspectives.\ Professor Stanhope - Dept. of Phllosophy. \Morals and ethics should be taught as a formal class by the philosophy department, but could be incorporated into discussions and content of other classes where it is appropriate .. '' Professor Gado • Dept. of English. \Not at all - no faculty should assume that their~ morals and ethics are superior to those of its students. However, I would expect that a student's studies would help to develop a moral and ethical sensitivity. If students were as hypocritical as Union College in its moral and ethical behavior, it should cause us a great deal of worry.\ ~~ OxfamtJ Amenca1 JOIN THE FAST Demonstrate your concetn for the world's hungry. Skip a meal. or fast for a day, and donate your fOO<l money to Oxfam America to fund self·help projects and disaster rel,ef in the Third World. Hunger and poverty are not inevitable. Together, we can make a difference. Sign up for those on meal plans Mon .• Nov. 3rd · Tues., Nov. 41h Fast Day Nov. 6th Cash donations from those nol on a meal plan gladly accepted. Profess(lr Kaminsky - Dept. of Philosophy. \Morals and ethics have to be taught as subject matter otherwise you ignore one of the three main branches of Philosophy . . . Union is a liberal arts in- stitution founded on the principle tha.t teaching .will have a· llumaruiing 'effect on people. But as for teaching ethical behavior, there is no reasonable means . to test people and.assign a grade.\ Professor Underwood · Dept. of Political Science. ''In regard to the curriculum, it is very hard for a college like Union, which traditionally has paid attention to the practical uses of knowledge beginning with Eliphalet Nott, to equip students to ex:amine the moral implications of the uses of knowledge.\ Kennedy, he has devised a new theory to e:xplain this event that neigher the Warren Commission nor any supermarket tabloid has ever imagined .. The story begins at the Soutb-fork Ranch. J .R. and his . father, Joe~ Ewing, are in the living room. Jock is on the phone. \Yes Lyndon, I've seen him shoot. He can hit the eye in a quarter at 500 yards. He certainly can hit the President from the sixth floor of that sch()ol book depository building.\ 4fter a pause, Jock continued. \No Lyndon, I assure you, he won't talk. I've hired another man, Jack Ruby, to take care of him. Yes, they both still think they're going to Geneva to collect a million in gold boullion.\ After another pause, Jock spoke again. \Remember Lyndon, one month from today, you're to appoint me Secret.ary of State. And, in '72, after you've had your two full terms as President, 'then I get mine.\ Just then, Jock turned around anq saw that Bobby and Miss Ellie had· been standing in the \Son where are you going?\ asked· Jock. . ''Somewhere . where they've never heard of Dallas or· tbe Ewings.\ · \And just where is that?\ asked J.R. . \Mi~i said Bobby. ''What are you going. to do there, son?., · . \I'm going to join tl;le pollee force. rm going to fight for justice. Maybe I'll ·work my way up to detective and get on their vice $quad,~· said Bobby as he angrily riished out the front door. · · · · · \L<Jok what you two have done. Now you've driven Bobby away fol' good. Who died and made you two the Electoral College. lhate you, I hate Yo~!\ sobbed Miss Ellie as she ran up the stairs. ''Don 1 t worry about them, Daddy, they'll come back/' \How do you know?\ \Because rve. bribed the writers into letting me read the scripts for the next 23 years. I know everything that will happen to this family through Christmas, 1986,\ said J.R. \Son :rm proud of you. )I \'l'banks Daddy. Bobby won't get past Texarl~ana before he turns around and comes home.\ \Why is that, son?\ . ''Because if he goes to Miami, he'll get drafted and then he'll have to go to Viet Nam with that Sonny Crockett boy and Rambo-.\ J .R. · continued. \Well anyway, he's always going to be running off during the next 23 International Students Reception: A Complete Success The reception held by the International Students Union on Tuesday, October 8th was well attended by students and faculty members and can certainly be regarded.as a complete success. Following in the footsteps which lead to its founding, the I.S. U. continues to pursue its goal of wanting to give a cosmopolitan accent to the college. The reception was a means pf gathering the many international students attending Union to numerous. members of the faculty. The international atmosphere was emphasized by a backgrpund of foreign songs and a superb · selection of international foods. Foreign dances were performed by some of the students. Anthee Carassavas performed three spectacular Greek dances, which traditionally served as a means for the Greek woman to choose her spouse. Eddy Remy, on his parts, excelled in an ethnic dance from Haiti. The reception also intended to welcome back Professor Ted Schwartz, guest of honor for the evening. Professor Schwartz is both an advisor and a father to each foreign student, and his return was welcomed wit great pleasure by the students and the faculty members. The I.S.U. reception was thus a complete success. The various· voices present spoke different languages, and Milano Lounge resembled the Tower of Babel. Luckily, however, the language of friendship is universal. Representatives from College Pro Painters wi II be on- ·campus to interview for summer employment positions on Fri-day, November 14, 1986. Any student interested in applying for an interview with College Pro must attend the information Session on Thursday, November 13, 1986 at 7:00 P.M. in Hu 115 to obtain an4>eJflployment ap- plication and make ~.n appointment for an interview. Further information is available at the Career Development Cetrtter. years. His mother will, too. But th~y'll come back when they're offered enough money.\ . ''Yeah, they're true ·Ewings~ Son,. what's going to happen to me?\ · \Daddy you're going to die.in a helicopter crash in South America in 1981.\ . . \Will I get to be Freside~t?\ \No.\ \Thanks for telling me, sm. I still have to :make that trip, th()ugh,\ said Jock. \Why is that, Of,lddy? '' asked a puzzled J .R. '''Because I'm a stoic. Lately, my life bas been influenced. l;ly th.e great philosopher Marcus· Aurelius. He. has taught me to accept m.y 'fate.\ · . ''Daddy, you never. ·l.leli~v~d in ·that before. 'l'hat's tgtally ·a~ · of ·chatacter ·for you.\ · · · · \I know,· Son, yoq may be smart enough -to bribe t]le WI'iters) but you still don't know everything. Yoi.t see,. the last time. I · renegotiated .my contract, I got · complete .creative controt Jock Ewing can do whatever he wants to do.\ . \This is . 1963. Nobody on television can get that kind ofa deal.\ · · . \Yeah but they can now, because I just invented it.\ . \You're· a real EWing,\ said J.R. \Butldon't Wlderstand. If you can control your character, why are you still going to make that fataltrip?\ \Fov~ the ratings, son. 'To .paraphrase Dickens,, 'tis a far, far better thing that I do for my family than I have ever done l>efore.'' \Say Daddy, l have an idea. How about instead of having a sniper, we get a commando with a machine gun. Then we can have Digger Barnes and Ws lcids, ·Cliff and Pam, stand on ·the curb, and when the President's car goes by, we can wipe them all out.\ · \Son we can't do that .. This is Texas. We can~t have wild, IUlcontrolled gunfightmg in the streets.\ \I lmow. But that Barnes girl is ()nly. going to cause troublet especially when you see what she's going to look like when she grows up. Bobby already has his eye on her.\ . 'l'he scene then ended. The rest of the story is history. Jo.ck turned down the Secretai'Y of State job when MISS Ellie threatened to divorce him if he took a job that would force bini. to spend a great deal of time outside of Dallas. Perhaps, though, if he had taken that job, J .R. Ewing might be President today. Questions, Comments, ' Problems Student Forum Meeting sunday, Novem tier· 9th .- lOP.M. . 3rd Floor Old Chapel . ' . ~ I ·i ' :l .,. ·.~ \ ..

' '• ' •< ' CONCORDIENSIS, November 6,\ 1986 . . - ~ . PageS· So What Was the Point? ByALEXSTEPHENS swnmit w~s really a 'Soviet Sting.' 'lbat .whichever way \So what was the point of the Reagan went he'd bethevUlain. summit at Rice Check?\ If he gave up SDI then there \That's Reykjavik,\ I said to goes the U.S'.'s defense and if he the woman in the checkout line didn't, then the summit would glancing at the headlines of tum out as it actually did, with some news. magazines. very little accomP.lished and the · \Yeah? Whatever. So what vast amoiUlt of blam.e cast on did Regan and Gorbachevy Reagan.'·' accomplish?\ I decided not to '!But Y0\1 said it did ac- correct her on the complish something. Almost mispronunCiations of the names like the .ll).eeting between of the two most p()werful men in President Lyndon Johnson and the world. Premier Aleksei Kowygin in ''Well, if you look at it ·Oil\ 1967.\ I was:surpriSed to say tbe timistically, it was the coming least, and caught somewhat off ~ogeth~r of . two . opposing guard. . · ~'Yea, I can see that. H()pefully they'll work something out next time.\ · \There'll have to be a com- promise from both Reagan and Gorbachev.'' I was suddenly reminded of a poem that I happened Up()n in n;tY literature book:, it seemed quite fitting, eve!l today, Having invented. a new Holocaust, And been the first with it to win a war, Ho:w they make haste to cry witll fingers crossed, King's X-no fairs to use it any 1deolog1es to work tow~rd the . · \That's a pretty interes,ting end of nuclet;tr weapon.s m or~~r . piece of ir)formation.\· Robert Frost (1946) -to preserve the human r~ce. I \Well I supJKISe so. I iust ,--------~_,... ....... ~-~- morel had a feeling that my simplistic read it oo the cover of that FEATURE.S Remember When: 30 years ago ... The Delta Chi fraternity sells its house at 1227 WendeJl Avenue to The First Unitarian Society of Schenectady, \Led by the brilliant .rwming of halfback Dick Cole\ Union beats the Widefeated Hobart team, 20..7. · The Rathskellar, one of Union's major student en- terprises is said to be in danger due to lack of student interest and organization. 20 years ago ... Union plans to finance a campus center combined with a renovated Carnegie Hall .~ith part of a $30 million fWid raising . drive. 10 years ago ... The Concordy reports on a sneak preview of Union in the eighties. The goals were stated as 1) providing plans for coping with cars while maintaining the beauty of the campus, 2) to give more attention to safety, 3) to make for a more attractive space around Old Gym and 4) to anticipate where new buildings such as those for Arts and Athletics will go. . Dutchmen lose to Williams 21 D 19. s~ary wo~d ,not suffice:. maga~ine:\ .She po~ted to one . But they didn t do anything, one the rack as we mched our all because of ReKan and: his way up the Une. Star Trek thing.\ She .seen;ted \But that's actuhll.y quite rather adamtant Qver thiS pomt. relevant,'' I picked up the ''l guess Rea~,an's SDI .magazine and flipped through Sigma Chi Brown Cup program actually.,.. . the pages until I found the. ''Who?\ I wasn t sure if she section devoted to the efforts of was. questioning the way I Robert S~ McNamara, then pronounced Reagan or using SecretaryofDefense. \Listen to SDI. this.'' I read: \The issue was \The Star Trek thing., She much the same as Reykjavik, nodded with· understanding. do either the U.S. or the Soviet \Reagan says that it is .the best Union have the \moral\ bargaining chip the US. has in obligation eo install antimissile arms negotiation. Because, defenses? Or would such conceivably we could have the . systems stimulate a new and power of an anti-nuclear dangerous arms race in which weapons umbrella over our one side's defenses would force · country, protecting us from all the other to multlply their of- missiles.'' fenses?\ \But isn't that kind of dumb?\ \How so?\ \If Regan had given the Star Tr:ek thing to. the Russians. t. hen. they coUld have gotten rid of .all the nuclear weapons as they planned to and you wouldn't need to have the . Star Trek' thing.'' It made sense, even though it sotu1ded sort of naive. So, I decided to play the devil' s advocate. \Do you really think the Soveit's intentions are honest?\ She tilted her head and stared at me in a perplexed way. \There are those who believe that the She put h-er groceries' on the · coWlter and turned toward me. ''So you think. the Russians just wanted. our defense power and had no intention of(iniiting their missiles? •' \That's a possibility, but I'd like to think that they just wanted the same protection as us, so we couldp't have the upper hand on them. Some people think. that an actual attack will C()rne from the small countries that have the bomb, so even if ·the superpowers disbanded their arsenals they would still need protection.t' Winners ' ·of the Limer~ick Contest David Lewis,. '87 • was named the winner of the recent Limerick contest, the Writing Center announced this week. Freshman Andrea Goldberg and senior Eliza Setel were runile.rs up in the competition. Lewis was awarded the first prize, a gift. certificate for a Vermonster Sundae at any Ben & Jerry's. Goldberg and Setel received official Writing~Center tee-shirts. Professor Alan Nelson, director of the Writing ·Center, said the tutors were pleased by the submissions to the contest. He added that a similar contest for faculty and staff might . be announced next term, ''if we can dl;lcide on suitable prizes for a group like that. Would they · want a Vermonster too?\ '· Response formulated by an irate Mrs. Ludlow and presented by Fitzhugh's much teased younger sister. Upon their discovery of their unwitting roles as inspirations fortbewritingofUnion's school song. · H 'The Brook that Bounds' is mere water, \ Said Sis, as Mother had taught lte~. \But it hurts, Fitzhugh, To be called by you :4 IJipfrom our Alma Mater. ' ,, BySTEPBEN TULEVECH The brothers of the Ganuna ~ta Chapter of Slgma Chi have recently recaptured the Stephen · P. Brown Memorial Award for the 1-!}~ academic year. This cup is traditionally given to Uni()'n College's most out- standing fraternity based on efforts in five different areas of intere~t which include aca!lemics, intramurals, charity contributions, Gre.ek Week:, and campus activities. Each of Union's seventeen fraternities competes for the Br()wn Cup in a contest which is closely monitored by the Interfraternity CoWicU. This year; Sigma Chi placed first in intrarnurals, Greek Week, and charity work. third in campus- related activities, and fifth in fraternity academics. Much of the hard work and energy required to achieve such an award can be attributed to the performance of ex-Consul Jim Brawley. Through his en- thusiastic leadership and through the cooperation of the Sigs of '86, events such as the Hug~a-thon, the Bake, and the intramural title became a reality, helping. to clinch a Sigma Chi victory. The trophy was presented to Consul Tim Coleman and ex- Consul Jim Brawley during halftime · of Union's Homecoming football game. A joint acceptance was planned between the two Consuls because Tim felt that the award . was achieved mainly as a sesult of Jim's efforts. This year, brother Dan Lazarek (Ganuna ZetaS IFC Rep and IFC Treasurer) pushed for amendments in Brown Cup IFC rulings in order to proportion decisions regardless of fraternity size. This was a key step in helping Gamma Zeta emphasize its dominance in the five areas of interest in order to regain the Brown Cup., Preparations have already begun to obtain a head start. on next year's Brown Cup' with full intentions of winning it once again. The continued level of intense energy and enthusiasm here at Gamma Zeta will un- doubtedly have a large impact on next year's Brown Cup decision as well. Celebrate with Circle K ByJOYCYBUL I This year, the Circle K club is tuldertaking an entirely new project to help out a needy charity. Letters were sent to all fresiJrnan pa_rents saying that for a srna}l .price, the club will purchase a bakery-made, perso11alized birthday cake for their son or daughter, and deliver it to their room. This project is very useful in several ways. First, freshman year is a very difficult adjustment for some to make. Celebrating your birthday away from your family can be made more en· joyable by. having Union students arrive at your door singing \Happy Birthday.\ Secondly, freshman parents will have a way to help their child celebrate his or her bir- thday away from home. All proceeds from this project -will be donated to a cystic fibrosis fund. This promises to be a very successful and enjoyable project. Appearing Friday & Saturday Nov. 7 & 8 Slip Knot l)rawing For Door Prizes T-Shirts, Hats, Etc. Fri. & Saturday ' \ i \ J . \ '

. Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, Novenzber6; 1986: FEATURES .. ~ - - - Remember When ... Octo~ar 6, 1966 Dean Craig Speaks Out· F~cUlty's Stand To the Editor: thi$. Where have you been lo, these seventeen . (or more) years of your life? Would you In your editorial (Sept. 29, have me presmne tbat you 1966) you ask the faculty to take com.e from parents that are a stand on certain questions adulterous? Wben you write regarding the propriety of the that ''this aewspaper (I assume college placing restriction on you mean the editor) neither the private and personallives of advocates nor condemns the individuals whoar:e students .fornication~' it sounds as if you here. This is Qne faculty are either ignorant or without member's stand: principles. In fact, it ls just uturany you woUld do your . best mot to become disgi,I.St~gly drWIJt or commit fornication. You promlsed us to do this! On your honer! Wbat~s this bit abollt the i·Ules being framed to inhibit fomication? You are not golilg to do this anyway·! What r do not understand is why you will not go all the way. Why do you not beg for an honor . £W,~ ---- =:J· The deciSion· to abstain or equivocation as far as I am indulge in fornication is hardly concerned: you .really mean personal or private. Society that you are for fornication. says that you shall not! All Why do yoll not say so? Tale a· religions say that you shall not! stand for goodness sake! · If Society was concerned about In the hopes that you will not you only, the answer would still ac(!use me of equivocation, may be the same. But Society .also I say that I condelnn illicit cares abo.ut the bastards you sexual intercotrese in all its procreate, the daughters and forms; fornication, adultery, . system? I, for one, believe that YO\l. students could. lian<U.e the excessesin the fraternities and dormitories much better than : · we can ... If you want to live like · pigs, then the faculty and adllllnistration have no choice but to act as swinehe_rds. . In tnY offic~r's training (.in · World War II) I learned the follvwing code: · Net Wt. Rocks Union and Beyond . wives that you violate. and any other name tbat you Are you familiar with the may call it . .At first I intended to social rules to which the faculty give reason for my stand.·hut I . must adhere? They are not have thought better of it. So · publislted in the Faculty many writers have stated the Manual. They do not have to be! case so well that· I shall not.even They are obvious. Those who try. . .. Honor .is that natural and . inherent s.tandard of distinction of proper ~onduct . in dealing with one'S fellow men, and is ·. tha1 quality which is so · essential to him who is . or · intends to be a leader.of men in · the profer~Jsion of arms. By STAFF In my mind, or what's left cf it, there is nothing more pleasurable than going to :a party where Net Wt. happens to be perfonni.ng. I usually parlt right in front of the stage, strategically position my cocktails, and. dance the nigbt away. Well, last weekend I had the opportunity to do this on two consecutive evenings. Combining the talents of Mike Stella (lead guitarist), Fred Kirschnauer (drums), -Jim Eddy (rhytbm guitar; backing: vocals), Jim. Maguire (bass}, and \Generic Eric\ Zenhause11 (lead vocals), Nt. Wt. has consistently regaled Unio11 audiences witb their virtuosity over the past several years. Friday and Saturday night at fraternity sponsored parties, Net Wt. did not disappoint. Playing what Jim Maguire termed ~'old favorites that haven't been brutalized by too much air play,\ the band sailed through three sets of high intensity rock 'n roll. The group demonstrated its musical dexterity by drawing on a variety of different artists for their material. They re-created the sound of such groups as Dire Straits, The Grateful Dead, and the Doors, to name a few, with such clarity· that at times one thought that particular gro11p was on stage. Please do not infer that Net Wt. is unoriginal in its musical interpretation of :hese bands. They have quite adeptly created their own personal style which affords them a certain degree of ·~reative leeway during any ~iven song. Organized on campus several years ago, Net Wt. has graduated three of its four founding members. Jim Maguire, Mike Stella and Jim Eddy find themselves in the working world, leaving Fred Kirschnauer '87 to practice alone here at Union. Jim ' Maguire commented on how work effects the band: \We At The Pub II Sat. Nov. 8 1 O:OOa 12:00 Come Join The Sisters Of Delta Delta Delta In Congradulating Our New Pledges .. usually practice for several hours after work, then we go home and WQrk individually for another hour or so. At times work can create very hectic sched111.es for all of us, yet with our educational backgrounds, we've maintained a very pragmatic approach to the whole thing. Our jobs are No. 1.'' Aside from playing. fraternity parties, the band has played at high school proms, country clubs, and a number of night clubs and bars in Westchester County, NY.· They've written·a Jot of their own material, including several jazz pieces, and have recorded several demo .tapes with the hope of gain:ing exposure in the Boston area where they now reside. To anyone who has listened to them, it is obvious that they are a tightly knit group of musieiansthat complement one another extremely well and we wish them the best of luck. We look f()rward to hearing from them again. run the college would not think f\pparently many of the more of insulting our mtelligence by valuable . students have reminding us of them. completely misunder$-ood Committing. fornication is President Martin. I shall stand covered by. tb.e expression corrected,. if in eiTor; l!ut the \moral turpitude\. For faculty idea behind the new rules is members the punishment for simple: you students have guilt is dismissal (it may also begged to be treated as adults. mean that the guilty party will In effect you said, if given the never teach again.) opportunity to store and drink Tbe tbing that swl)rises me is alcohol in your rooms and to the fad that some of you entertain guests there, thell. you students do not seem to realize . would behave like gentlemen: By .ADAM EMERSON and ROB BLEIFER · This week Adam and Rob ask you, the people of Union College, \What's your favorite non-sexual body part and why?\ Ifyou're wondering why we're asking you the question tbis week, don't. Just read the article. It's pointless for you to wonder sine~ the article is already written. •SQ here are some of your responses. 1) Why are you bothering me? I'm failing math. Leave me alone. 2) Faces because they have lips. 3) Fingers so I can rip up articles like this. 4) Hands because you can do so much with them. 5) My feet because thetxe so 1\lay I .paraphrase, and say th.at this applies to all professions? . What doi want ofyou? I want you to be gentlemen, educated gentlemen!' I respect my · students. I hope that they do not abllSe that respect! cute. Sincerely, Edward J. Craig, Professor,·E.E. 6) My brain because it's been' dol'lil.ant for three years. - · 7) Shoulders because you can shrllg them and rest your head on tbem. · '8) Backs because I can talk behilld them. 9) My .bellybutton because it collects lint and I'm saving up for a sweater. 1()) My left eye because I can take it out and put it in my ~~~~~-· JIIJM(~~;:..-.!If\'. ~·· ~~· ~.._, .IIIM:t\\ .M111:f:~· DI!M...~ frieads' coffee. g -~:- ~·.-!- ~~~~!-..c .-:14it*#~~:~~~Oli!~-~~~:,~~:f4t~:~~:~~:\\\q · 11) My Adam's apple becau.se . :M I like how it moves whim people •• TJ: talk. '• • tli · · · ~ 12) I like toes. but I can't say • ~'YJ :r'6l wby. ~ ~~~ Q 1 l.pjCf'*m' ar(Y Tn 111~ 13) You mean there is a non- ~~ Ill 1-~f..j 0 .IJ ~ sex:ual body part? 7 :. 14-llike fingers because they f =It ' it \i .:JI. ·= r. , . • ~T V k ,~ canholdaj()int.Butdon't quote 1-;ew ~ 0. ~. . n meonit. :'M 15) I like armpits because Trip T·o New york City by bus November 22/ 1986 Bus leaves Wells House 7:00A.M. Return trip leaves New York 7:30P.m. Sponso.red by Union College Staff Association R.S.V.P. by November 7, 1986 All Welcome ext. 6399 Paul a ext. 6118 Lorraine Capacity 41 (First come- first serve) Price $20.00 per person Payable in cash (no refunds) fi~ wben I cup my hand under it .I and flap my a. rms I can make ~ fwmy sounds. J Thank you for your responses. : Now, go check' on your friend's favoL\ite body part. 'Bye for jl. n~o_w_·~~------------~ :1 ~ 'Anyone :Interested? Help Out With Union Dutchmen Hockey OnWRUC This Season There· will be a meeting TODAY at 4:3(1 • at 1he WRUC Studio in Old Chapel.

. Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS. November 6, 1986 : FEATURES Remember When . . . October 6, 1966 Dean Craig Speaks Out Faculty's Stand To the Editor: r/j ·.· ~Jl \ lJ fL I .-~~> In your editorial (Sept. 29, 1966) you ask the faculty to take a stand on certain questions regarding the propriety of the college placing restriction on the private and personal lives of the individuals who are students here. This is one faculty member's stand: this. Where have you been lo, these seventeen (or more) years of your life? Would you have me presmne that you come from parents that are adulterous? When you write that ''this newspaper (l assume you mean the editor) neither advocates nor condemns fornication\ it sounds as if you are either ignorant or without .principles. In fact, it is just equivocation as far as I am concerned: you really mean that you are for fornication. Why do you not say so? Take a· stand far goodness sake! naturally you would do your best not to become disgustingly drunk or commit fornication. You promised us to do this! On your honor! What's this bit about the rules being framed to inhibit fornication? You are not going to do this anyway! What I do not Wlderstand is why you will not go all the way. Why do you not beg for an honor system? I, for one, believe that you students could handle the excessesin the fraternities and dormitories much better than we can ... If you want to live like pigs, then the faculty and administration have no choice but to act as swineherds. -- - - - ·- - The decision to abstain or indulge in fornication is hardly personal or private. Society says that you shall not! All religions say that you shall not! If Society was concerned about you only, the answer would still be the same. But Society also cares about the bastards you procreate, the daughters and wives that you violate. ·Ht:w.s In the hopes that you will not accuse me of equivocation, may I say that I condemn illicit sex:ual intercourse in all its forms; fornication, adultery, and any other name that you may call it. At first I intended to give reason for my stand, but I have thought better of it. So many writers have stated the case so well that I shall not even try. In my officer's training (in World War II) I learned the following code: Net Wt. Rocks Union and Beyond Are you familiar with the social rules to which the faculty must adhere? They are not published in the Faculty Manual. They do not have to be! They are obvious. Those who run the college would not think of insulting our intelligence by reminding us of them. Committing fornication is covered by the expression \moral turpitude\. For faculty members the punishment for guilt is dismissal (it may also mean that the guilty party will never teach again.) Honor is that natural and inherent standard of distinction of proper conduct in dealing with one's fellow men, and is that quality which is so essential to him who is or intends to be a leader of men in the profession of arms. By STAFF In my mind, or what's left of it, there is nothing more pleasurable than going to a party where Net Wt. happens to be performing. I usually park right in front of the stage, strategically position my cocktails, and dance the night away. Well, last weekend I had the opportunity to do this on two consecutive evenings. Combining the talents of Mike Stella (lead guitarist), Fred Kirschnauer (drums), Jim Eddy (rhythm guitar, backing vocals), Jim Maguire (bass), and \Generic Eric\ Zenhausen (lead vocals), Nt. Wt. has consistently regaled Union audiences with their virtuosity over the past several years. Friday and Saturday night at fraternity sponsored parties, Net Wt. did not disappoint. Playing what Jim Maguire termed ''old favorites that haven't been brutalized by too much air play,'' the band sailed through three sets of high intensity rock 'n roll. The group demonstrated its musical dexterity by drawing on a variety of different artists for their material. They re-created Jte sound of such groups as Dire ~;traits, The Grateful Dead, and the Doors, to name a few, with such clarity that at times one thought that particular group was on stage. Please do not infer that Net Wt. is unoriginal .1 its musical interpretation of · tlese bands. They have quite adeptly created their own personal style which affords them a certain degree of 'reathre leeway during any ~iven song. Organized on campus several years ago, Net Wt. has graduated three of its four founding members. Jim Maguire, Mike Stella and Jim Eddy find themselves in the working world, leaving Fred Kirschnauer '87 to practice alone here at Union. Jim Maguire commented on how work effects the band: \We At The Pub II Sat. Nov .. 8 1 O:OOm 12:00 Come Join The Sisters Of Delta Delta Delta In Congradulating Our New Pledges usually practice for several hours after work, then we go home and work individually for another hour or so. At times work can create very hectic schedules for all of us, yet with our educational backgrowuls, we've maintained a very pragmatic approach to the whole thing. Our jobs are No. 1.\ The thing that sw·prises me is the fact that some of you students do not seem to realize Apparently many of the more valuable students have completely misunderstood President Martin. I shall stand corrected, if in error, but the idea behind the new rules is simple: you students have begged to be treated as adults. In effect you said, if given the opportunity to store and drink alcohol in your rooms and to entertain guests there, then you would behave like gentlemen: May I paraphrase, and say that this applies to all professions? What do I want of you? I want you to be gentlemen, educated gentlemen! I respect my students. I hope that they do not abuse that respect! Sincerely, Edward J. Craig, Professor, E.E. Aside from playing fraternity parties, the band has played at high school proms, country clubs, and a nwnber of night clubs and bars in Westchester County, NY. They've written a lot of their own material, including several jazz pieces, and have recorded several demo tapes with the hope of gaining exposure in the Boston area where they now reside. To anyone who has listened to them, it is obvious that they are a tightly knit group of musicians that complement one another extremely well and we wish them the best of luck. We look forward to hearing from them again. Ada1n and Rob Ask ''U~' By ADAM EMERSON and ROB BLEIFER This week Adam and Rob ask you, the people of Union College, \What's your favorite non-sexual body part and why?\ If you're wondering why we're asking you the question this week, don't. Just read the article. It's pointless for you to wonder since the article is already written. So here are some of your responses. 1) Why are you bothering me? I'm failing math. Leave me alone. 2) Faces because they have lips. 3) Fingers so I can rip up articles like this. 4) Hands because you can do so much with them. 5) My feet because they're so cute. 6) My brain because it's been dormant for three years. 7) Shoulders because you can shrug them and rest your head on them. 8) Backs because I can talk behind them. 9) My bellybutton because it collects lint and I'm saving up for a sweater. 10) My left eye because I can take it out and put it in my ~- ~-~-~ ..... ~.,.. ~ ... ~,..~.,. ~ ... ~·· ,...,. ~·· ~·· ~.,. friends' coffee. -~:~~:\il..-..:~~:~~:~:~~:~~:~~:~~~~:~~:~~:~~:~~:~~ - 11) My Adam's apple because .w :9 I like how it moves when people ~ IJ~ talk. U.' • d fk 12) I like toes but I can't say .w ~~'r('J :f!t why. 1{: ~~ C\L ... icrtma:s···· 'n ll~ 13) You mean there is a non- u C...~~ fl1 IIJ ..1. ~ ~ sexual body part? ·rJ v :~ 14- I like fingers because they fi= New y 0 ~ lr ~ ~~~~~~~joint. But don't quote .if:t A :i!_t 15) I like armpits because if li~ when I cup my hand under it ~ ft and flap my arms I can make =£ Trip To New york City by bus :pJ funny sounds. u· Nove m be r 22 1986 o Thank you for your responses. .w I :~ Now, go check on your friend's ~· fJ~ favorite body part. 'Bye for .~ Bus leaves Wells House 7:00A.M. :J\ now. t Return trip leaves New York 7:30P.m. 'R< r---------, i' J Anyone ~ Sponsored by Union College Staff Association , 1 .' Interested? fr R.S.V.P.by ext.6399Paula -: :fl.. November 7,1986 ext. 6118 Lorraine :'. Help Out With I· fi: Union All Welcome Dutchmen · Capacity41 (Firstcome-tirstserve) •• .• Hockey ~ Price $20.00 per person ~ 11 ~6 J I' Payable in cash (no refunds) , ~,~ f ~:~-.:-s.a...~:-t...t.~:1Mro~:1M.~:~ ~~w.:~ l!fto.:~ ~:iMo ... ~,.,....,...... ~':t-~-~~ ..... ,.._, OnWRUC This Season There will be a meeting TODAY at 4:30 , at the WRUC Studio in Old Chapel. 1\ I· I .I ·I I I

' CONCORDIENSIS, No~ember 6, 1986 Page7 . ' SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY D ,. Q\ . . . rug• · _UIZ As part of a program to offer the student body a .broad-based series .of progrlliJls in dnlg awarer1ess, 'The ()()aeordfends will print a weekly article conceming drug and alc()hol liSe. Tile follow~g is a quiZ, on drugs ~rom . the National Institut~ for Drug AbllSe. Try it, you IJU$ht be surprised. 1. The most commonly abused drug. in the US is a) marijuana, b) alcohol, c.) cocaine, d) heroin. . 2. People who . a. re Q.ependent upon heroin keep taking it mostly -to a) experience pleasure, b) avoid withdrawal.,· c) escape reality, d) be ac- cepted among frien()S .. 3. Whicl1 of these is not a nar- cotic? a} hef:()in, :b) mariju11.na, c) m()rphinep d) -methadone. 4. Which age group has the hlghest. percentage of drug abuser&? l) 10-17, b) 18-25, .c) 2s:. '35,. d) 3&e0, e) 61 and over. 5. Which drug does not cause physical dependence? a) alcohol~ b )morphine, c) peyote, d) codein~. 6. Most drug ilsers make their first colltact with illicit drugs a}· through pushers, b) throtlgh their friends, c) accidl:mtally, d) througlt the media. 7~ What is the most un- predictable drug 011 the street today? a) PCP, b) heroin, c) • LSD, d) alcohol. 8. WhichDfthe fDUowing is no~ a stimula11t\1 a) amphetamine, b) caffeine, c) metaqllalone, ·d) methllJnpbetamint:l. 9. The majority Clf inhalant abusers are a) men, b) childrem,. c). women, d) the elderly. $0. Wbich of the foll()wing .poses the greatest health hazard to the most people in the US? a) cigarettes, b) heroin, c) codeine, d) LSD, e) caffeine. 11. Which of the foll!)wiitg poses the highest immediate risk to users? a) marijuana, b) nicotine, c) LSD, d) inhalants. 12. This dr..ug was believ~d to be non-addictive when it was developed in the 1800's as a substitute far mCJrphine. a) LSD, b) heroin, c) horseradish, d) PCP. 13. When does a persCJn become hookedon heroin? a) first time, b) after4or 5Ji.ID.es, c) 20times or more, d) Cliffere11t for each persoll. 14. Wbat sobers up a , drunk persoll? a) cold sbower, b) coffee, c) time, d) exercise. 15. Wbich of the follo!Ving should never be mixed with alcohol? a) amphetamines, b) sedatives, c) C()Caine, d) ~igarettes. 16. :Medical help for drug problems is available without legal pe11alties )a) if patient is under 21, b). under .protection of federallaw, c) in certain states. 17. How long does marijuana stay in tbe body after smoking? a) one day, b 12 hours, c) up to a month, d) one hour. $8. Use of drugs during pregnancy a) shDuld be limited to tobacco and alcob,ol b) ·may be hamtful to tbe unborn child, c) shollld cease at 26 weeks. Answer:s: as :barbituate sed~tives can be dangerous. 3. Marijuan~. Although illegal, marijuana is no longer consided to be a narcotic because it has different effects on one's mental and physical system than those of narcotics. . 4.18~25 . .A 1982 National Survey on Drug ·Abuse showed that illicit drllg abuse was most prevalent among young adults, ages 18 to 25. 5. Peyote. Mescaline, a hallueinogen, is the active .ingredient of the peyote cactus. · Physical . dependence on mescaline has not been vetified. 6. Through their friends. Many people.are influenced by friends to try drugs, especially · the young. . . 7. PCP. This illicit drug can produce Unpredictable, erratic, andviolentbehavior in users. In some cases. these actions have led to drownings, burns, and car accidents. Because it is made illegally, users cannot be sure of its purity. 8. MethaqualQne. This . non- barbituate sleep-indUcing drug wllich is called a lude or sopor, can lead to convulsions ·or a eoma. 9. Children. Inhalant abuse is rising among children from 12 to 17. years of age.. These are readily available in household products such as aerosol sprays. These can cause irregular heart~ats, breathing problems and sud<len death. 10. Cigarettes. There are over 50 million cigarette.smokes in the US and about 300;000 deaths each_year are related to tobacco use. Long-term effects of . smo~g fu.clqd~ .e~pJ;lysem~, chrome bronChltlli, heart disease, and cancer of the lungs,· mouth larynx, and esophagtiS. Pregnant. .smokers risk having babies tbat weigh less, or losing theft babies through still birth or death after birth. 11. Inhalants. Sniffing these compounds, found in household products~ can result in im- mediate death caused by poor br~athing which leads to SUf- focation. 'l'bis may happen after the first or any other time it is used~ 12. Heroin. In 1898, when heroin was placed on the market, it was not thought to be habit forming until a few years later it was found to be more ad- dictive than morphine or any other narcotic. 13. Different for each person. Although the time it takes for a person to become dependent on heroin varies, repeated use will cause physical dependence. Some people become hooked on heroin after only a few times. 14. Time. Once alcohol is in the bloodstream, it takes time for the body to rid itself of the alcohol and there are no shortcuts. This process, called metabolism, takes about 2 hours for each drink taken. 15. Sedatives. When alcohol, a sedative, is combined with other sed~tives, it intensifies their effects. In this confused states, judgmen~ is bnpai(ed and merno~y lapses can occur, which can cause the user to t. Alcohal. Ul millian people in unintentionally take larger the US are dep~n!lent upon amounts of these drugs. This alcohol and two-thirds of all can result in comas and death. adults are ,occasional drinkers More Americans die from of alcQholic beverages. About overdoses of sedatives than one-half of all junior lligh school from heraln addiction. student~have.triedsometypeof 18. Unde1· protection of federal alcoholic drinks. law. Under federal law persons 2. Avoid withdrawal. When __ can ·Seek help for drug addicts ·are deprived of .. the problems. Federal law in most drug, tlley develop physical instances requires doctors, withdrawal fi!YlllPtoms. such as psychologists, and drug · shakingt sweating, nausea, treatment centers to keep mm~cle spasms, headaches. ~d confidential any information stomagb aches. Sudden With- received from drug patients,. if drawal fr~m some dr11gs su~h the program is federally Heart Hormone Discovered ByST,EVE KONLIAN To the common person the human body is a mystery. However, some facts about our body are considered to be common knowledge. For · example, the brain is the center of thottght, and. the lungs func- tion in respiration. The role of the heart is to pump blood through the body, or so it was thought. Approximately two years ago a hormone manufactured by the burnan heart was discovered, triggering extensive research all over the world. This heart hormone has been found to affect various vital organsofthe body. In the brain, there. is data tbat suggests that the hormone interacts with the brain's control of blood pressure and volume. In the kidneys, alilmal studies have shown the hormone .to improve tha bility of failing kidneys. to filter body wastes. In the adrenal glands, the hormone appears to counter the blood pressureMraisiQ.g effects of ·e p i n e p h r i n e a n ·d norepinephrine. And, in the blood vessels, blood volume is reduced by the hormon.e, diminishing the workload of the heart. other important functions of the heart hormoee are: it helps clispcse of excess sodium in the blood and thus seems to \'play a part in regulating the arnoung -of salt in the body; it is present in large amounts in the blood of patients who suffer from congestive heart failure and certain kinds of abnormally fast, irregular heartbeats .. But perhaps the most fascinating discovery has been the powerful effects that minute amounts of the hDtmone can produce. Slmllar to Some Dmgs The heart's hormone's ac- tions appear to be Uke those of several · different classes of drugs used against high blood presslll'e, which help excrete salt from the body, blocks hormones such as renin and aldosterone that . keep blood presslll'e u_p and appears to relax blood ves.se.ls. Since tbe field of study is so new, scien- tists differ over the hormone~s ·precise effects and over . what triggers its release. Two years ago there was debate whether there was one such heart hor· mone or several in humans. Scientists now agree that there is almost certainly one sub- stance prodi!_ced primarily in t~e atria, the two upper chambers of the heart. In its inactive form, the hormone is apparently stored in granules in the tissues of the atria. In its active form, the hormone, which circulates through the · body, is a relatively •Small chain of twenty-eight amino acids chopped from a much large molecule of some unknown enzyme~ The heart hormone iS clearly one of the more important scientific discoveries in the 1980's. As more questions about it are answered, the hormone may one day flnd its way in use in treatment of many-aihnents and disorders. Handy Drug Fact Sheet: ByDAVEPADDEN PCP was first developed in 1959 as one of a new class of anesthetic agents,· known as dissociative anesthetics because they detach or dissociate patients from all bodily sensations soo that no pain is felt during surgery. However, because patients often. ·' , become· agitated, delusional and irrational while recovering from its effects, its use was discontinued. PCP can be easily mi:x:ed.with dyes and turn~ up on the illicit drug market in a variety of tablets, capsules, and colored powders. It is normally used in one of three ways: snorted, smoked, or eaten; although it may be injected. When smoked it is often mixed with another ~Jubstance such as mint leaves, arsley, tobacco, or marijuana. PCP is unusual in that it appears to have a higher per- centage of undesirable reac-- . tions than any other commoQlY used psychoactive drug. In _spite assiSted. With the patient's consent, it may be necessary for information to be given to other doctors or to insurance ·com- panies. 17. Up to a month. Scientists have discovered that the major active ingredient in marijuana, PCP of its many bizarre and un- pleasant effects it has enough desirable qualities to put it in demand. Dr. Ronald Siegel, a Los Angeles psychologist, tested and interviewed 310 adult users and all agreed that on every occasion there were unpleasant negative aspects. to the PCP experience. The poSitive effects described by Dr. Siegel's users included heightened snsitivity to outside stimuli, dissociation, elevation in mood, inebriation, and relcaation {only one in twelve repo.rted experiencing euphoria). PCP is a depressant and Interactions with other central nervous system depressants such as alcohol and tranquilizers can lead to coma or accidental overdose. Psychological effects with small doses include distinct changes in body awareness, similar to those associated with alcohol intoxication. Effects of higher doses :mimic certain primary symptoms of schizophrenia such as THC, accumulates in the fatty tissues of the cells and is . eliminated slowly. It takes about 4 weeks for the body to rid itself of THC. 18. May be harm- ful to the unborn child. Pregnant women should be careful about taking any drug, delusions, mental tunnoil, and a sensation of detachment from one's environment. Illusions and hallucinations~ usually of hearing (and occasionally of vision) have also been reported following large doses. Bizarre behavior of many types sometimes occur in response to them. Speech ~ often blCJcked and to the outside it may appear meaningless; Paranoid thinking is common, and users may react with frightening violence with response to imagined threats. Because PCP has anesthetic action, touch and pain sensations are dulled and the user may severely injure himself without knowing it. The popularity of PCP indicates some degree of psychological dependence. Physical depen- dence and withdrawal in hwnans has not been observed. Once again, the drug is quite powerful and delusions may be quite real, perhaps similar in intensity to the Boston Red Sox fans, that they would beat the greatest te~- the New York Mets. even aspirin, without consUlting a physician. Heavy smoking and drinking can harm the fetus. Babies born of narcotic and . barbituate dependent mothers are often born drug dependent. , The Biology Department ·and Biology Club Present: ''Polyamines, Alkaloids and Their Biosynthesis'' Thursday, November 6, 1986 4:30P.M. Room 55115 Helena Birecka Union College Refreshments time 4:15

;\ I~ I I .I ·I I I I I I CONCORDIENSIS 9 November6, 1986 P;~ge 7 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Drug Quiz As pa·rt of a program to offer the student body a broad-based series of programs in drug awareness, The Concordiensis will print a weekly article cancerning drug and alcohol use. The following is a quiz on drugs from the National Institute for Drug Abuse. Try it, you might be surprised. 1. The most commonly abused drug in the US is a) marijuana, b) alcohol, c) cocaine, d) heroin. 2. People who are dependent upon heroin keep taking it mostly to a) experience pleasure, b) avoid withdrawal.,· c) escape reality, d) be ac- cepted amc:mg friends. 3. Which of these is nat a nar- cotic? a) heroin, b) marijuana, c) morphine, d) methadone. 4. Which age group has the highest percentage of drug abusers? 1) 10-17, b) 18-25, c) 26- 35, d) 36-60, e) 61 and over. 5. Which drug does net cause physical dependence? a) alcohol, b) morphine, c) peyote, d) codeine. 6. Most drug users make their first contact with illicit drugs a) through pushers, b) through their friends, c) accidentally, d) through the media. 7. What is the most un- predictable drug on the street today? a) PCP, b) heroin, c) LSD, d) alcohol. 8. Which of the following is not a stimulant? a) amphetamine, b) caffeine, c) metaqualone, d) methamphetamine. 9. The majority of inhalant abusers are a) men, b) children, c) women, d) the elderly. $0. Which of the following poses the greatest health hazard to the most people in the US? a) cigarettes, b) heroin, c) codeine, d) LSD, e) caffeine. 11. Which of the following poses the highest lnunediate risk to users? a) marijuana, b) nicotine, c) LSD, d) inhalants. 12. This drug was believed to be non-addictive when it was developed in the 1800's as a substitute for morphine. a) LSD, b) heroin, c) horseradish, d) PCP. 13. When does a person become hooked on heroin? a) first time, b) after 4 or 5. times , c) 20 times or more, d) different for each person. 14. What sobers up a drunk person? a) cold shower, b) coffee, c) time, d) exercise. 15. Which of the following should never be mixed with alcohol'? a) amphetamines, b) sedatives, c) cocaine, d) cigarettes. 16. Medical help for drug problems is available without legal penalties )a) if patient is under 21, b) under protection of federal law, c) in certain states. 17. How long does marijuana stay in the body after smoking? a) one day, b 12 hours, c) up to a month, d) one hour. $8. Use of drugs during pregnancy a) should be limited to tobacco and alcohol b) may be harmful to the unborn child, c) should cease at 26 weeks. Answers: 1. AlcohoL 10 million peo})le in the US are dependent upon alcohol and two-thirds of all adults are occasional drinkers of alcoholic beverages. About one-half of an junior high school students have tried some type of alcoholic drinks. 2. Avoid withdrawal. When addicts are deprived of the drug, they develop physical withdrawal symptoms such as shaking, sweating, nausea, muscle spasms, headaches and stomach aches. Sudden with- drawal from some drugs such as barbituate sedatives can be dangerous. 3. Marijuana. Although illegal, marijuana is no longer consided to be a narcotic because it has different effects on one's mental and physical system than those of narcotics. 4. 18·25. A 1982 National Survey on Drug Abuse showed that illicit drug abuse was most prevalent among young adults, ages 18 to 25. 5. Peyote. Mescaline, a hallucinogen, is the active ingredient of the peyote cactus. Physical dependence on mescaline has not been verified. 6. Through their friends. Many people are influenced by friends to try drugs, especially the young. · 7. PCP. This illicit drug can produce unpredictable, erratic, and violent behavior in users. In some cases these actions have led to drownings, burns, and car accidents. Because it is made illegally, users cannot be sure of its purity. 8. Methaqualone. This non- barbituate sleep-inducing drug which is called a lude or sopor, can lead to cenvulsions or a coma. 9. Children. Inhalant abuse is rising among children from 12 to 17 years of age. These are readily available in household products such as aerosol sprays. These can cause irregular heartbeats, breathing problems and sudden death. 10. Cigarettes. There are over 50 million cigarette smokes in the US and about 300,000 deaths each year are related to tobacco use. Long-term effects of smoking include emphysems, chronic bronchitis, heart disease, and cancer of the lungs, mouth larynx, and esophagus. Pregnant smokers risk having babies that weigh less, or losing their babies through still birth or death after birth. 11. Inhalants. Sniffing these compounds, found in household products, can result in im- mediate death caused by poor breathing which leads to suf- focation. This may happen after the first or any other time it is used. 12. Heroin. In 1898, when heroin was placed on the market, it was not thought to be habit forming until a few years later it was found to be more ad- dictive than morphine or any other narcotic. 13. Different for each person. Although the time it takes for a person to become dependent on heroin varies, repeated use will cause physical dependence. Some people become hooked on heroin after only a few times. 14. Time. Once alcohol is in the bloodstream, it takes time for the body to rid itself of the alcohol and there are no shortcuts. This process, called metabolism, takes about 2 hours for each drink taken. 15. Sedatives. When alcohol, a sedative, is combined with other sedatives, it intensifies their effects. In this confused states, judgment is impaired and memory lapses can occur, which can cause the user to unintentionally take larger amounts of these drugs. This can result in comas and death. More Americans die from overdoses of sedatives than from heroin addiction. 16. Under protection of federal law. Under federal law persons can seek help for drug problems. Federal law in most instances requires doctors, psychologists, and drug treatment centers to keep confidential any information received from drug patients, if the program is federally Heart Hormone Discovered By STEVE KQNLIAN To the common person the human body is a mystery. However, some facts about our body are considered to be common knowledge. For example, the brain is the center of thought, and the lungs func- tion in respiration. The role of the heart is to pump blood through the body, or so it was thought. Approximately two years ago a hormone manufactured by the human heart was discovered, triggering extensive research all over the world. This heart hormene has been foi:IFid to affect various vital organs of the body. In the brain, there is data that suggests that the hormone interacts with the brain's control of blood pressure and volume. In the kidneys, animal studies have shown the hormone to improve tha bllity of failing kidneys to filter body wastes. In the adrenal glands, the hormone appears to counter the blood pressure-raising effects of epinephrine and norepinephrine. And, in the blood vessels, blood volume is reduced by the hormone, diminishing the workload of the heart. Other important functions of the heart honnoee are: it helps dispose of excess sodium in the blood and thus seems to 'play a part in regulating the arnoung of salt in the body; it is present in large amounts in the blood of patients who suffer from congestive heart failure and certain kinds of abnormally fast, irregular heartbeats. But perhaps the most fascinating discovery has been the powerful effects that minute amounts of the hormone can produce. Similar to Some Drugs The heart's hormone's ac- tions appear to be like those .of several different classes of drugs used against high blood pressure, which help excrete salt from the body, blocks hormones such as renin and aldosterone that keep blood pressure ~P and appears to r·elax blood vesselll. Since tile field of study is so new, ~iEn· tists differ over the horm()n-t~ s ·,precise effects and over ·iVmt triggers fts release. Two y.ears ago there was debate whmer there was one such heart 111or- mone or several in humo&rl$. Scientists now agree that there is almost certainly one ~~~\). stance produced prim.aril:yr in the atria, the two up.p.er chambers of the heart. In. its inactive form, the honnon~ is apparently stared in granules in the tissues of the atria. Iru its active form, the horm<Jne~ which circulates through tl1e · body, is a relatively •Small clla.ill of twenty-eight amino acids chopped from a much large molecule of some unknowm enzyme. The heart hormone is clearly one of the more importllilt scientific discoveries in the 1980's. As more questions ai»ollt it are answered, the horm!Qne may one day find its way in use in treatment of many ailments and disorders. Handy Drug Fact Sheet: By DAVE PADDEN PCP was first developed in 1959 as one of a new class of anesthetic agents, known as dissociative anesthetics because they detach or dissociate patients from all bodily sensations soo that no pain is felt during sUrgery. However, because patients often become agitated, delusional and irrational while recovering from its effects, its use was discontinued. PCP can be easily mixed with dyes and turns up on the illicit drug market in a variety of tablets, capsules, and colored powders. It is normally used in one of three ways: snorted, smoked, or eaten; although it may be injected. When smoked it is often mixed wi.th another <;ubstance such as mint leaves, arsley, tobacco, or marijuana. PCP is unusual in that it appears to have a higher per- centage of undesirable reac- tions than any other commonly used psychoactive drug. In spite asststed. With the patient's consent, it may be necessary for information to be given to other doctors or to insurance com- panies. 17. Up to a month. Scientists have discovered that the major active ingredient in marijuana, PCP of its many bizarre and un- pleasant effects it has enough desirable qualities to put it in demand. Dr. Ronald Siegel, a Los Angeles psychologist, tested and interviewed 310 adult users and all agreed that on every occasion there were unpleasant negative aspects to the PCP experience. The positive effects described by Dr. Siegel's users included heightened snsitivity to outside stimuli, dissociation, elevation in mood, inebriation, and relaxation (only one in twelve reported experiencing euphoria). PCP is a depressant and interactions with other central nervous system depressants such as alcohol and tranquilizers can lead to coma or accidental overdose. Psychological effects with small doses include distinct changes in body awareness, similar to those associated with alcohol intoxication. Effects of higher doses mimic certain primary symptoms of schizophrenia such as THC, accumulates in the fatty tissues of the cells and is eliminated slowly. It takes about 4 weeks for the body to rid itself of THC. 18. May be harm- ful to the unborn child. Pregnant women should be careful about taking any drug, delusions, mental turmoil, md a sensation of detachment from one's environment. Illusioms and hallucinations, usually of hearing (and occasionally of vision) have also been report~ following large doses. Bizal'l\e behavior of many types sometimes occur in response t<l them. Speech is often blocked and to the outside it may appear meaningless. Paranoid think:intg is common, and users Ina.y react with frightening violen~e with response to imagi11e>d tllreats. Because PCP lias anesthetic action, touch antd pain sensations are dulled lllltd the user may severely injUf!e himself without knowing it. Th.e popularity of PCP indicate;s some degree of psychologic!ll dependence. Physical depell· dence and withdrawal irn humans has not been observed:. Once again, the drug is quite powerful and delusions may ibe quite real, perhaps similar in intensity to the Boston Red &nx:: fans, that they would beat tlhe greatest team - the New Yol'k:: Mets. even aspirin, without consultin~ a physician. Heavy smokin;g and drinking can harm th.e fetus. Babies born of narcOtti c and barbituate depende!it mothers are often born dru;g dependent. The Biology Department and Biology Club Present: 11 Polyamines, Alkaloids and Their Biosynthesis'' Thursday, November 6, 198.1» 4:30P.M. Room SS115 Helena Birecka Union College Refreshments Time 4:15

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, No~e111ber 6. 1986 · <JlllltCllrbirnsis ---- F'tHIItllrtl al f 1111011 CtJI~ IS\/~ ~--~ ·cOMMENTARIES. T~ke It Seriously ..... Guest Commentary I . ~bout the Proposed · Cllrriculum Take it ~er1ously, after all how many chances do we bave to influence the future of courses and Pro- fesso~s'. Jqtqre~ .. at Union? Yes it's that time of year again. Sometime in the last week of classes By ALAN NieLSON theory pa~ in two paragraphs (most probably dUring the last five minutes of the . My cc;~py of the c~General of the first page- I suppose the ft'nal 1 ) p f · '11 h d t 1 t' Ed c Committee felt that nothing • c ass · ro essors Wl an ou · eva ua ton · ucation · mriculwn\ report more need be said than the forms. Or at least they should anyway. Constructive arrived with out-of-order pages. usual pieties. critical .analysis is what they're looking for, and it's . Those things can happen, but But it's all such thin. gruel: h t th d ...4-....... h · 1 . somehow it seems emblematic famili w a e epa~.uuent c atrs ook for when they review of the proposal its-elf: the ar but not 11ourishing. the~e evaluations. Department chairs rate professors proposal is, I think, a matter of When Gettysburg's Dean P~tts 1 th h th f th t d t ' (quoted in the report) says that roam y roug. . e consensus o · e s u . en • s good intentions, bllt bad to prepare students \to make evaluations. After grades are turned in, the delivery. sense out of life'.s com· evaluations are returned to the faculty members so It is time for th:orough plexities, '' we must therefore they can do some se. If-evaluation. revision of GenEd, 1 asr-ee. The \promote coherence\ in their • Committee provided only a ed t' r · k h · Evaluations also affect the bi~annual merit inM paragraph on the pr()blems of · uca ton, ' thm e sounds crements and tenurabilit_y of professors. Merit in- our present liberal Learning, more profound than he is. And when the Committee crements in salary are based upon teaching ability, • but many of us could give the paraphrases Wayne. Booth research, and college services. Teaching ability is fuller case against it.l won't (Univ. of Chicago) and claims determined, in a large part,. by the consensus of bother to here, except to point to propose \the education that a out that Liberal Learning was t h \ 1 t..: ... ,. student evaluations. When professors tenure flawed from the beginning by person mus . ·ave, . tmJ.JA it. eligibility comes into question~ the Faculty Review · compromises which satisfied has not read Wayne Booth very Board, .and the Administration do take student department enrollments ahead w~e Booth citation is worth 1 t . tat' t' · t 'd ti of educational purpose. It made . ........ eo· tt eva ua tons LS lCS m o cons1. era on. . changes not by invention but by conunentmg on. a.ue .. · mmi · ee After professors have been granted tenure, their moving around the same old refers, I must guess, to Booth's .promotions are also affected by teacher evaluations. rt excellent essay, \Is 'l\bere Any pa s. Knowledge that a Man Must Think careftilly before you circle that nwnber beside My fear is that wear-e about Have?\-(fret not: this was in th t . f f d k 'bl to .make the ,same mistakes d . e ra mg o your pro essors, an rna e a respons1 e again. The new currieulum has 1966, an· yes, he'd probably say decision, based on the strengths and weaknesses of a New I..ook, but it's a re- \person\ today.) But Booth your professors, not on the grade you are receiving. shuffling of the old cards. concludes quickly that \There Before it settled for that, is no such thing,\. if we mean content of. courses. Later, he Carnegie Report: Lessons for Union· :'de;nrmV::!titf::!~~: says what he does mean: that Th C . F d t' f th Ad t f daring tc change. It might have \first. of all he must be able 'to e. arneg1e oun a 10n or e ~anceme_ n o led us to cc;~nsider a genuine learn for himself\-and Booth Teaching 1 a d 242 g rt 1 t S t d makes clear that the \one re e se a -pa e repo as . a ur. ay · revision of what we d<1 here. It inescapable goal (is) that every that points its finger directly at Union and other might have raised more fWl· graduate can dig out from the schools just like it. The report calls for a complete damental questions tllan it has. printed page what he needs to overhaul of undergraduate education and offers After more than ·!I· year of know.\ In other words, the one t . th u1 · . work, the Commtttee has \ many. sugges Ions . at wo d unprove the quallty of presentecl a plan whielt neither skill\ most worth having: the learm g h t U ability to read well. You could n ; ere a ruon. . pleases nor displeases anyone define a college education in For example, the report reverses the \publish or very much, .simply b~cause the termsofthatalone.Butwehave perish'' view that presupposes that if a professor is old cards will ~ill~ familiar· If never spent time at this College. . getting his work published he is therefore doing a we q~arrel, . 1 t will be oyer thinking about that. b . b d d . . 'th t . t' superftcial things, mJt bas1cs. Booth d e g t t' super JO an eserves e1 er enure, promo Ion, or we have, that is, 'the . o ~ o on omen ton a raise. Clearly research and publication of articles is inevitable mediocr-ity that · three domams that a person should know about: \Nature overemphasized here at Union. Professors should be strives first for what will be with a capital N\ (by which he able to stay at the forefront of their subject material, \acceptable.\ I wish I co~d be means curiosity; ~.ot just pass this information on to their students without more pr-oud, mol'e . ex:ctted. science) ; ''great human di · di t t f th · 't' Instead, I feel · cyllleal, my achievements m· the arts\ to the spen ng an mor na e amoun o e1r une on shoulders shrugging. I like that · · research and publishing. least of an. · serious degree that a student' Hearns\ them; and self- The report continues to enforce the view that ethics . Let's l()o~ at the _Proposal: · knowledge, witli some and morality are not being taught in our nation's fll'st of an tts root~ :m.~theo~y, \freedom from blind colleges. In a society in which we have seen abuses in ::~han~~lk a~f~~:fly) lts psychol?gical or .political or P olitics finance engineering medicine and a host of Tb. . Root 8 h A ·.Th ' econonuc compulstons.\ Ev.en .' . , . ' . e s • uc s ey Are then, Booth says, one \can be other j1elds, this. type of education sho~d be stress~d. The Proposal gets past the ignorant even of Shakespeare, However, at Umon how many of our bberallearnmg or major requirements focus on these issues? Maybe All Letters to til& Editor we simply need to know t~e difference between right must IJe typed double- and wrong wh~n we deal with others. . . . spaced and submitted by 4 The study discusses the fact that there Is mcreasmg . tensions between \careerism and the liberal arts.\ p.m. each Tuesday before This problem is a widespread ·one · on the Union publication. All letters campus. must be signed by na more . Cal~ng for a \gre~ter coherence in the.curriculum than four ·people e~nd all · mcluding an exte!ls10n of general reqwrements to writers should provide upperclassmen,\ It seems to poke fun at the new _ . general education curriculum that is presently being the1r addresses a11d phone proposed at Union. numbers for verific•tion of Moreover, Cornell President Frank Rhodes was the letter. Names nor- quoted in The New York T~es as saying: \There's mally will not be withheld. almost no common comnutment among faculty . · . . . members except to their academic disciplines, and ~oncordte~s•s res~rves the there is no agreement as to how we should shape the r1ght t.o re1ect letters that curriculum . or · explore the map of human ex- are libelous or clo not perience.\ By and large, this is typical of Union conform to stanclard of professors and it is clear that they cannot agree on go~d tciSte what the standards for a strong curriculum should be. · The foundation suggests an ''integrated core\ of l-------1-e_H_e_r_s_l_o __ -t subjects such as art, language, and history. Except for an emphasis on history, neither our newly the editor cancl proposed curriculum nor the presently used • requirements reflect this. Most importantly, the COmmentarieS Carnegie report proposes more seminars with ex- do .not perienced professors for freshmen and sophomores, • 1 rather than large lecture classes. Unfortunately, this necessar1 Y is not the trend at Union. :reflect the The Foundation's report suggests sorhe other ·· reforms, including the elimination. of standarized opinions of tests such as the SAT and ACT. t.h d•t· • I It would seem that this report is a general criticism · e e I Orla of all institutions of higher learning. However, it is board Df clear that the Foundation's review applies to Union. Concordiell_. s .. is. Administrators take heed: this one's for you. Aristotle, Beethoven, and Einstein ... if h~ has learned to thiQk his own thoughts, ex· perience beauty .for himself, and ehoose his own actions~\ T)tese are interesting and provocative ideas, worth our own thoughtful discussion - but if the Conuni.ttee ever seriously considered them, it did not · invite thf:) community to 'join in its dis~ussions. It cites only a catch•phrase from Wayne Booth without any sign of un- derstanding him. What s)lall we make of the Coiilll1i.ttee's neglect of what Booth plainly says? Nothing, really ... the Co:rruriittee need not agree with Booth just because it likes his pbrase about ''the education that a person must have.\ But we can think the Committee might have . bt!gun its work at the level of Booth's discussion - that is, with some serious l,lppraisal of some things more fundamental than \distribution patterns.\ A few months of panels and debates at the level of Booth's remarks might have helped us all t«t be more thoughtful than the present Proposal invites us to be •. ..,.. For example: Wbat would it mean· to \read\ a text, not for exams but for our own minds? What would it mean to \earn\ beauty by our experience of it? Who among our students is ever invited to do these things? Wh.o among our faculty has· thought much about it? Ought not a planning conunitte~ move to levels Uke that, l:}t least at first? So on ·the first grounds, the very foundations on which .. to construct a distribution requirement, the Proposal simply does not speak.· But if we're to do anything more ambitious than shuffle the cards, we ought to look more thoughtfully at what those cards. are, and what they do. The Mechallism • · An Iron Malden? But now let's move to that more practical level - the· patterns proposed, the system Continued on vaf!e 9

PageS CONCORDJENSIS, Novem~er 6, 1986 F~ ar f huon ('<>llqt: f,i :: . COMMENTARIES. -------- ------ ••• Guest Commentary Take It Seriously Take it seriously, after all how ma11:y chances do we have to influence the future of c:omses and Pro- fessors' futures at Union? Yes 11' s that time of year again. Sometime in the last 'I;VEek of classes (most probably during the .last fiv·e minutes of ~he final class) Professors will hancl out evaluat~on forms. Or at least they should anyVi'ay. Constructive critical analysis is what they're lo~k:ing for, and !t's what the department chairs look for ·when they review these evaluations. Department chaits rate professo~s n1ainly _ througl_l the consensl:lS ~f the s~udent s evaluations. After grades are tarned m, the evaluations are returned to the fae11lty- members so bout the Proposed Curriculum By ALANNE~ON · My c~py of the \General they can do some self-evaluation. . . . Evaluations also affect the bt .. armual mer~t ~n­ crements and tenurability of professors: Mer1~. m- crements in salary are based up()n ttea~hing ~~1llt~~ research, and college services. Te11ehlng ab1hty 1s determined, in a large part, by the consensus of student evaluations. When professors ten~re . eligibility comes into question, the Faculty Review· Board and the Administration d.o take student evalu~tion statistics into consideratia.n. . After professors have been graiJt.ed tenure, ~he11 promotions are also affected by teac-h.er evaluatw!ls. Think carefully before you circle th.a t number be~Ide the rating of your professors, and make a responsible decision, based on the strengths ~11d weakn~s_ses of your professors, not on the grade y()il are recetvmg. Carnegie Report: Lesso:ns for UnioR The Carnegie Foundation for tlle Advancement of Teaching released a 242-page r-eiJort .last Saturday that points its finger directly at Umon and other schools just like it. The report caUls for a complete overhaul of undergraduate edu~~ti()n and ~ffers many suggestions that would imprllve the quallty of learning here at Union. . For example, the report reverses .the ''pubhsh ~r perish\ view that pre~upposes ~h<tt iE a profes~or 1s getting his work pubhshe.d he 1s tlterefore d?mg a superb job and deserves either te~lUr\~ promot.wn, ~i a raise. Clearly research and publication of articles 1s overemphasized here at Union. Professors should be able to stay at the forefront of th~ir stJilject ma~erial, pass this information on to the11 stude~ts, :Without spending an inordinate amount mE thetr time on research and publishing. . . The report continues to enforce tile ~lew that e~hi~s and morality are not being tauglnt 1n our natwn.s colleges. In a society .in w~ch we b~~e seen abuses m politics, finance, engmeermg, J?-edtr:1ne and a host of other Jields, this type of educatwn s.lun~ld be stress~d. However, at Union how many of our' l1.beral ~earmng or major requirements focus on these tssues . Ma.ybe we simply need to know the differ-en.ce between nght and wrong when we deal with others. . . . The study discusses the f.act that tbere ~s mcreasmR tensions between \careensm and th.e liberal art~. This problem is a widespread om.e on the Umon campus. . -... · 1 Calling for a \greater coherenc€ Iill h1e. curr1cu urn including an extension of gener~tn rEqwrements to upperclassmen,'' it seems to po:k~ fWl at the n.ew general education curriculwn that Is presently bemg proposed at Union. Moreover Cornell President Fraak Rhodes was quoted in The New York Times as saying: \There's almost no conunon commitme~i Cl~~n& faculty members except to their academLc dtsctplmes, and there is no agreement as to how we slt()uld shape the curriculum or explore the mCl(l of human ~x:­ perience.\ By and large, this is typical of Umon professors and it is clear that the::v. cannot agree on what the standards for a strong ~~rnculum shoul~,be. The foundation suggests an '1mteg~ated core ()f subjects such as art, language, am~ history. Except for an emphasis on history, ltEitl1er our newly proposed curriculum !lor thE _presently used requirements reflect this. Most llllportantli', the carnegie report proposes more semmars with ex:- perienced professors for freshmern and sophomore~, rather than large lec;ture classes. Umf()rtunately, this is not the trend at Uruon. The Foundation's report . sugrsests some o~her reforms, including the elimmatl()l!l of standartzed tests such as the SAT a~d ACT· . . . . It would seem that this report Is .a general critlc.ts~ of all institutions of higher lea~Ill;g. H~wever, ~t 1s clear that the Foundation's review applies to Umon. Administrators take heed: this on.e•s: .for you. · Education Curriculum\ report arrived with out-of-order pages. Those things can happen, but somehow it seems embleinatic of the proposal itself: the proposal is, I think, a matter of good intentiens, but bad delivery. It is time for thorough revisicm ()f GenEd, I agree. The Committee provided only a paragraph on the problems of our present Liberal Learning, but many of us could give the fuller <:a.se aga,inst it. I won't bother to here, except to point out that Liberal Learning was flawed. from the beginning by compr<Jmises which satisfied departm~nt enrollments ahead of educational purpose. It made · changes not by invention but by moving around the same old parts. My fear is that we are about to make the same mistakes again. The new curriculum has a New Look, but it's a r~ shuffling of the old cards. BefDre it settled for that, though, I wish the Committee had been more ambitious, more daring to change. It might have led us to consider a genuine revision of what we do here. It might have raised more fun- damental questions than it has. After more than a year of work, the Committee has presented a plan which neither pleases nor displeases anyone very much, simply because the old cards will still be familiar. If we quarrel, it will be over superficial things, not basics. We have, that is, 'the inevitable mediocrity that strives first for what will be \acceptable.\ I wish I could be more /roud, more excited. lnstea , I feel cynical, my shoulders shrugging. I like that least of all. Let's look at the Proposal: first of all its roots in theory, then (only briefly) its mechanism in action. The RotJts ~ Such As They Are The Proposal gets past the All letters to the Editor must be typed double- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must I.e signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their mddresses and phone numbers for verification of the leHer. Names nor- mal!y will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not cof!farm to standard of good taste. leHers to the editor and commentaries de not necessarily reflect th~ opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. theory part in two paragraphs of the first page - I suppose the Committee felt that nothing more need be said than the usual pieties. But it's aU such thin gruel: familiar but not nourishing. When Gettysburg's Dean Potts (quoted in the report) says that to prepare students ''to make sense out uf life's com~ plexities,\ we must therefore \promote coherence\ in their education, I think he sounds more profound than. he is. And when the Committee paraphrases Wayne Booth (Univ. of Chicago) and claims to propose \the education that a person must have,\ 1 think it has not read Wayne Booth very well. The Booth citation is worth c~mrmenting on. The Committee refers, I must guess, to Booth's ex:cellent essay, \Is There Any :Knowledge that a Man Must Have?\-(fret not: this was in 1966, and yes, he'd probably say \person\ today.) But Booth concludes quickly that \There is no such thing,\ if we mean content of courses. Later, he says what he does mean: that \first of all he must be able to learn for himself\ -and Booth makes clear that the \one inescapable goal (is) that every graduate can dig out from the printed page what he needs to know.\ In other words, the one \skill\ most worth having: the abntty to read well. Yoa. co~d define a college educatiOn m terms of that alone. But we have never spent time at this College thinking about that. Booth does go on to mention three domains that a person should know about: \Nature with a capital N'' (by which he means curiosity, not just science); \great human achievements in the arts'' to the · serious degree that a student \earns\ them; and self- knowledge, with some \freedom from blind psychological or political or economic compulsions.\ Even then, Booth says, one \can be ignorant even of Shakespeare, Aristotle, Beethoven, and Einstein ... If he has learned to think his own thoughts, ex- perience beauty for himself, and choose his own actions.\ These are interesting and provocative ideas, worth our own thoughtful discussion - but if the Committee ever seriously considered them, it did not invite the conununity to \join in its discussions. It cites only a catch-phrase from Wayne Booth without any sign of un- derstanding him. What shall we make of the Committee's neglect of what Booth plainly says? Nothing, really- the Cammittee need not agree with Booth just because it likes his phrase about \the education that a person must have.\ But we can think the Committee might have begun its work at the level of Booth's discussion - that is, with some serious appraisal of some things more fundamental than \distribution patterns.\ A few months of panels and debates at the level of Booth's remarks might have helped us all to be more thoughtful than the present Proposal invites us to be. • For example: What would it mean to \read\ a text, not for exams but for our own minds? What would it mean to \earn\ beauty by our experience of it? Who among our students is ever invited to do these things? Who among our faculty has thought much about it? Ought not a planning committee move to levels like that, at least at first? So on the first grounds, the very foundations on which to construct a distribution requirement, the Propos~l simply does not speak. But if we're to do anything more ambitious than shuffle the cards, we ought to look more thoughtfully at what those cards are, and what they do. 11le Mechalds~ - An Iron Malden? But now let's move to that more practical level - the patterns proposed, the system Continued on ua2e 9

_CONCORDTEN.SJS, November 6; 19/lt 8 • - • • • • • ·.ProPosed Curriculum Continued.from page 8 erected. Now UlY disap· pointment turns to something mo~;e like alarm. I fear that in its zeal to enforce :coherence in every student's program. the Committee· has fallen into the trap· for all such planning groups: the desire to plan everything, manipulate . th'e parts and fotce \coherence\ on theni. On paper, that is. I agree that coherence is a virtue.. And I know that .some (not an,. bilt \DO many) ·Stutl,ents neither know nor care what that would mean. They· -seem to regard their education as a pile- up of 36' discrete courses; too often, they choose cQurses wi.th no regard at all to relationships, to coherence. They complain . about tuition, and cheat themselves of what it should pay for. The solution in the Proposal is to \ensure\ so'Undness and breadth by a pattern of requirements more elaborate than Liberal Learning, and· supposedly more coherent. But the ·pattern turns Byzantine in its elaborate interconnections, especially in (and within) the 5· course Western History· Civilization-Literature cluster. Read it, if you don't believe me. Imagine yourself the student who must complete the cluster of 5 courses within 2 years, plus · Freshman Preceptorial, and faces the satisfaction of 10 (count 'em · 10) _other courses before graduation. most of which cannot. be part of the major. Imagine too· that you want a Term Abroad, or that you are attracted. by other things lik~ beginning language courses, non-Western studies, studio arts (aU commended by the C<lm- mittee, though not as requirements) which may or may not cQunt toward your GenEd .reqUirements, depen- ding on what majQr you are. 'Superimpose.c;l on this, mentioned though not described in the Proposal, is the probable requirement c>f ~~w-courses\­ i.e., .courses with a deliberate attention to Writing in them. Virtue again, but. also another degree of complication. Another problem: the \history cluster\ requires some very careful coordination of :the parts • so that History, Ci·vilization, and Literature courses ''speakto each other'' - i.e. make a. coherence. The proposed General Education Board Willhave a devil of a tj,me delivering coordinated s.ets of courses. The student that doesn~t catch the sequence as· it goes by, or has conflicts with other courses he must take that tenn, or begins one cluster and mU$t shift to another, is going to have real problems staying within the law. And faculty needed. for crucial .parts of the cluster must be avallable at critical times. I fear the problems of coordinating even that part Will be hair-raismg. The Committee should also have offered some guesses as to how many students might elect each history-cluster (surely they considered that?) and hDw many might, With the illusion of choice, be told they mu!3t take a second or third choice. (It's one thing to be told you must take course X; it's quite something else to be given a choice of W, X, Y, or Z, and then pushed into X.). , . And this is only the beginning . of the j~~le of complicate~ COMMENTARIES ... Guest Commentary . . regulations in GenEd. In their ·eagerness to.enforce the virtues · of their vision, the Committee · has forgotten the most im· General Ed. Sparks Contr~versy By STEVE MOSS portant rules of organization: · .The new general education clarity of line, simplicity of · . proposal has, not surprisiJJgly, pattern, ease of direction. Each sparked a considerable amount requirement, arguably good. in · Df'controversy. To date, the cynly itself, has simply been point that we, both students and superimposed on the others. educators, have agreed· upon is The Ten CDmmandments have tbe fact that the current never quite made the world ••nberal learning prograJD\ no good; but enlarging them to Ienger achieves its original Fifty Interlocking Rules, with goals. Now that we have exceptions, would have been acknowledged this fact, we may worse. . exercise one of two opti()ns: (1) Finally, we are asked to . modify the current system, or approve an important change in - {2) establish a new system. a crucial component in every · The choice to establish a new student's education. But the · · · s,ystem was made because tbe Committee hasri.'t. given us · C<Jncept of a general educati()n enougll.information to make our tcday is somewhat different decision a responsible one. For • than the concept was ten yea-s example, the Committee hasn't ago when the liberal learning given us (though it shOuld have) progtam was established. some . sample \clusters nor , · Consequently, the goals of each has it described a possible 1 differed» and the general sen- syllabus for a . couple of the ~ tirnent was to create a new History courses. (The labels system which would combine \European I\ or 'c.Am.erican Il\ tile best of both the old and new tell us nothing!) The pig is still values. inthe poke. Or to be more exact, The general guidelines were we are asked to buy a poke with to create a system in which the the pig yet to be born. As though integrity could be maintamed packaging were the most im~ over time and WDuld all()W portant thing. .significant freedom in .course If we establish this prof'am, I selection while ensuring a predict two things. First, a broad, general education. The constant blizzard of waivers · new · proposal seems to be from the regulations,. to rescue successful on all account.s. good intentions from cruel Admittedly,. it does neglect legalisms. And second, a half- life of five years, by whi.ch time we will perceive the nightmare, though we will not change it for five Qlore years of frustration. For an its good intentions and hard work, l think the Com- mittee has recommended something that will damage, not . . enhance, what we ought to do here. some of the original goals; but no.system is perfect. In fact, the Sub-Council on Curriculum openly stated that it would be impossible to create a curriculwn :yvhich successfully achieved every goal. Whether or not the new curriculwn would be perfect or problem free is not the critical question. Instead, the questions which should be asked are whether or not the benefits of the new system outwiegh its inherent problems and whether or not the new system is a significant iJnprovement on the old system. Close examination of both the new and the old systems yields the inevitable conclusion that the goals of general Elducation are better served under the new proposal. · - There is one thing that ean be .said without any doubts: if the general education proposal is not passed and no efforts are made to improve the current liberal learning program, it would seem as though a majority of the faculty is not concerned with general education to begin with. If that were the case Union surely cannot be regarded as a liberal arts college. Steve Moss is the President of the Student Forum. Alan Ne.fson, Professor of English and Director of the Writing Center. Because There Comes A Time When Your Education Should Be More Than Just Preparing For Finals PAUL SCHOP ••• From the Albany·Desk . A November to Forget By the time that this column will be published, Election Day will have come and .gone. Hopefully; all of the votes will have been counted, and aU of the winners will have been identified. '1'his pla<;es From the Albany Desk at a disadvantage, since this information will' not be available at the time that this coltimn must be written. · However, tqis does not mean that Election Day, 1986, cannot be analYzed. This is precisely what this column will do this week. Compared to other states, voters· in· New York have a legitimate right to feel cheated and disappointed this November. There are several reasons for this. Let us begin by comparing New ~ York's gubernatorial and senatori~l elections with those in Dther states, This year, many states held closely contested elections for those two .offices. This year's hi-election, in fact, will probably be remembered as one of the most influential in the 20th Century, probably as important as the .1978 ~lection, which.saw the Republicans gain enough Senate seats to wrest control of that house .from the Democrats in 1980. It could be as important as the 1930 elec- tion, which saw the· Democrats amass a huge nUil'lber of seats, in both houses of Congress, on their way toward tote-! dominaticn of the federal legiSlature by 1934. The Republican Party has certainly recognized that this year's election, like the two mentio_ned p~evlou~ly, could determine wno will set our nation's pOlitical agenda for tile next several years. The party's ~enior leadership recognized this montbs ago. That is why the Republican Party has turned · this election into a referendum on the Reagan. Admhiistrati()n, and w~y the President em-. barked on his exhausting whistle stop tour in support of Republican ·candidates nationwide. Reagan's actions this fall have only one precedent in American Presidential history. Woodrow Wilson, in 1919, was the only other President to campaign so vigorously ln an off year. His campaign, on behalf of the League of Nations Treaty, proved unsuccessful and crippled his administratiDn. - Could Reagan's actions this fall lead to the crippling of his administration in its tWilight twenty-four months? New York, by contrast, seems to have been the land that time forgot. This year, New Y()rk politics seemed to have been ·trapped in an era in which in• cum bents ran for office against, weak opponents. Perhaps this was because New York's economy was also living in a forgotten land ·of yesterday, where ... unemployment and in- flation are low and growth is high. This has not been the case with our sister states, especjally those in the South and West. There is another, IilDre powerful reason why New Yorkers shoUld feel cheated thiS year, other than in not having a major race that was very close . right up until Election Day. That reason was the con- descending attitudes that some of the major candidates eK· pressed in their political ads. Instead of treating New Yorkers as intelligent, con· cerned ciU,zens who could make a decision based on how thE candidates stood on the issues, this year's candidates,. and in particular Andrew O'Rourke and Al 0' Amato, insulted the voters' intelligence by spon· soring negative ads, ads that centered on false issues, and ads that resembled music videos more than· political ads. Fortunately, neither can· d.idate committed all of these errors. Andrew O'Rourke gave New Yorkers the negative ads, and he focused on the debate controversy as . the main cmnpaign issue. Clearly, it is important that at least the two major parties' candidates debate, but if O'Rolll'ke had used his money to air ads that showed that New York, in spite of its current good economic fortune, is still facing severe problems that Cuomo is doing nothing to solve, then perhaps be would have generated enough credibility and respect to earn a debate with Cuomo. Instead of using constructive criticism of Governor Cuomo to build his reputation and in· crease his chance ()f winning, he squandered his meager resources Dn negative ads that alienated the voters and reduced his crewbility. The greatest irony of O'Rourke's campaign was that he did debate the governor on October 30, be used the occasion to deliver a concession speech. The last words that ·he said THE IDEALIST was started as a means to serve the school, its students~ faculty and .administration. It is published in hopes of raising the intellectual consciousness of the campus community by causing its readers to question their attitudes and think about their assumptions. Contributors in this Fall's issue include Sen. Gary Hart and Woody Allen. Look for it. It may take your thinking outside the classroom. , The Idealist Fall 86 \ Union College's Single Literary Source Of Political & Social Opinion were, \Mario you almost bad me voting for you t!Jere.\ . D' Amato, on the other hand, prcduced slick ads that often looked more like \I Love New York\ music videos than campaign ads. This was especially true of the ad in wbl.ch we saw, among other 1tlrlngs, the New York City skyline at night, Niagara Falls, an.upstate.apple orchard, and a herd of dairy cattle. This ad featured the slogan, \Al D'Amato, getting it done/' However, all that we saw D' Amato doing was playing fDotball with his children, picking apples, and kissing babies. An ad featuring D' Amato acting on his views ()R the MX missile, Star Wars, the contras, or the budget deficit would have been much more appropriate. These ads, both the ones run by O'Rourke and by D' Amato, have demonstrated that these politicians have one thing in common,. and that is cowardice when it came time to discuss the issues. Cuomo, by refusing to debate 11DtU the final week of the campaign, is also guilty of this charge. When the final story about the 1986 campaigns in New York is written, it should appropriately be titled, \The Color Yellow.\ This is why New York's voters should feel so disappointed in this November to forget.

COtiCORDIENSIS, November 6~ JIJI!7J • • • Proposed Curriculum Con.tinued from page 8 erected. Now my disap- p<>intment turns to something more like alann. I fear that in its zeal to enforce coherence in every Student's program the Committee has fallen into the trap for all such planning groups: the desire to plan everything, manipulate the parts and force \coherence\ en them. On paper, that is. I agree that ceherence is a virtue. And I know that some (not all, but too many) students neither know nor care what that would mean. They seem to regard their education as a pile- up of 36 discrete courses; too often, they choose courses with no regard at all to relationships, to coherence. They complain about tuition, and cheat themselves of what it should pay for. The solution in the Proposal is to \ensure\ soimdness and breadth by a pattern of requirements more elaborate than Liberal Learning, and supposedly more coherent. But the pattern turns Byzantine in its elaborate interconnections, especially in (and within) the 5- course Western History- Civilization-Literature cluster. Read it, if you don't believe me. Imagine yourself the student who must complete the cluster of 5 courses within 2 years, plus Freshman Preceptorial, and faces the satisfaction of 10 (count 'em - 10) other courses before graduation. most of which cannot be part of the major. Imagine too- that you want a Term Abroad, or that you are attracted by other things like beginning language courses, non-Western studies, studio arts ~all commended by the Com- mittee, though not as requirements) which may or may not count toward your GenEd requirements, depen- ding on what maj()r you are. Superimposed on this, mentioned though not described in the Proposal, is the probable requirement of \W-courses\- i.e., courses with a deliberate attention to Writing in, them. Virtue again, but also another degree of complication. Another problem: the \history cluster\ requires some very careful coordination of the parts - so that History, Civilization, and Literature courses \speak to each other'' - i.e. make a collerence. The proposed General Education Board will have a devil of a time delivering coordinated sets of courses. The stlldent that doesn't catch the sequence as it goes by, or has conflicts with other courses he mllSt take that term, or begins on.e cluster and must shift to another, is going to have real problems staying within the law. And faculty needed for crucial parts of the cluster must be available at critical times. I fear the problems of coordinating even that part will be hair-raising. The Committee should also have offered some guesses as to how many students might elect each history-cluster (surely they considered that?) and how many might, with the illusion of choice, be told they must take a second or third choice. (It's one thing to be told you must take course X; it's quite something else to be given a cboice of W, X, Y, or Z, and then pushed into X.) And this is only the beginning of the jumble of complicated regulations in GenEd. In their eagerness to enforce the virtues of their vision, the Committee has forgotten the most im& portant rules ef organization: clarity ·of line, simplicity of pattern, ease of direction. Each requirement, arguably good in itself, has simply been superimposed on the others. The Ten Cormnandments have never quite made the world good; but enlarging them to Fifty Interlocking Rules, with exceptions, would have been worse. Finally, we are asked to approve an important change in a crucial component in every student's education., But the Committee hasn't given us enough information to make our decision a responsible one. For example, the Committee l:lasn't given us (though it should have) some sample \clusters nor has it described a possible syllabus for a couple of the History courses. (The labels \European 1\ or \American II\ tell us nothing!) The pig is stiU in the poke. Or to be more exact, we are asked to buy a poke with the pig yet to be born. As though packaging were the most im- portant thing. If we establish this program, I predict two things. First, a constant blizzard of waivers from the regulations, to rescue good intentions from cruel legalisms. And second, a half- life of five years, by which time we will perceive the nightmare, though we will not change it for five more years of frustration. For all its good intentions and hard work, I think the Com- mittee has recommended something that will damage, not enhance, what we ought to do here. Alan Nelson Professor of English llnd Director of the Writing Center. ' PAUL SCHOP •.. From the Albany Desk A November to Forget By the time that this column will be published, Election Day will have come and gone. Hopefully, all of the votes will have been counted, and all of the winners will have been identified. This places From the Albany Desk at a disadvantage, since this information will not be available at the time that this column must be written. However, this does not mean that Election Day, 1986, cannot be analyzed. This is precisely what this colwnn will do this week. Compared to other states, voters in New York have a legitimate right to feel cheated and disappointed this November. There are several reasons for this. Let us begin by comparing New York's gubernatorial and senatorial elections with those in other states. This year, many states held closely contested elections for those two offices. This year's bi-election, in fact, will probably be remembered as one of the most influential in the ZOth Century, probably as important as the 1978 ~lection, which saw the Republicans gain enough Senate seats to wrest control of that house from the Democrats in 1980. It could be as important as the 1930 elec- tion, which saw the Democrats amass a huge number of seats, in both houses of Congress, on their way toward total domination of the federal legislature by 1934. The Republican Party has certainly recognized that this year's election, like the two mentioned p~eviously, could determine who will set our nation's political agenda for the next several years. The party's senior leadership recognized this months ago. Tbat is why the Republican Party has turned this election into a referendum on the Reagan Administration, and why the President em- barked on his exhausting whistle stop tour in support of Republican ·candidates nationwide. Reagan's actions this fall have only one precedent in American Presidential history. Woodrow Wilson, in 1919, was the only other President to c,ampaign so vigorously in an off year. His campaign, on bEhalf of the League of Nations Treaty, proved unsuccessful and crippled his administration. Could Reagan's actions this fall lead to the crippling of his administration in its twilight twenty-four months? New York, by contrast, seems to have been the l~nd that time forgot. This year, New York politics seemed to have been trapped in an era in which in- cumbents ran for office against . weak opponents. Perhaps this was because New York's economy was also living in a forgotten land .of yesterday, where_ unemployment and in- flation are low and growth is high. This has not been the case with our sister states, especially those in the South and West. There is another, more powerful reason why New Yorkers should feel cheated this year, other than in not having a major race that was very close right up until Election Day. That reason vras the con- descending attitudes that some of the major candidates ex- pressed in their political ads. Instead of treating New Yorkers as intelligent, con- cerned citi,zens who could make a decision based on how thE candidates stood on the issues, this year's candidates, and in particular Andrew O'Rourke and Al D' Amato, insulted the voters' intelligence by spon- soring negative ads, ads that centered on false issues, and ads that resembled music videos more than political ads. Fortunately, neither can- didate committed all of these errors. Andrew O'RoW'ke gave New Yorkers the negative ads, and he focused on the debate controversy as the main campaign issue. Clearly, it is important that at least the two major parties' candidates debate, but if O'Rourke had used his money to air ads that showed that New York, in spite of its current good economic fortune, is still facing severe problems that Cuomo is doing nothing to solve, then perhaps he would have generated enough credibility and respect to earn a debate with Cuomo. Instead of using constructive criticism of Governor Cuomo to build his reputation and in- crease his chance of winning, he squandered his meager resources on negative ads that alienated the voters and reduced his credibility. The greatest irony of O'Rourke's campaign was that he did debate the governor on October 30, he used the occasion to deliver a concession speech. The last words that he said COMMENTARIES ... Guest Commentary General Ed. Sparks Controversy By STEVE MOSS The new general educatien proposal has, not surprisingly, sparked a considerable amount of controversy. To date, the only !)()int that we, both students and educators, have agreed upon is the fact that the current \liberal learning program\ no longer achieves its original goals. Now that we have acknowledged this fact, we may exercise one of two options: (1) modify the current system, or · (2) establish a new system. The cl:loice to establish a new system was made because the concept of a general education today is somewhat different than the concept was ten years ago when the liberal learning program was established. C<lnsequently, the goals of each differed, and the general sen- , timent was to create a new system which would combine the best of both the old and new values. The general guidelines were to create a system in which the integrity could be maintained over time and would allow significant freedom in course selection while ensuring a br()ad, general education. The new proposal seems to be successful on all accounts. Admittedly,. it does neglect some of the origina1I goals; but no system is perfect. In fact, the Sub~Council on Curriculum openly stated that it would oo impossible to create a curriculum which successfully achieved every goal. Whether or not the new curriculum would be perfect or problem free is not the critical question. Instead, the questions which should be asked are whether or not the benefits of the new system outwiegh its inherent problems and whether or not the new system is a significant improvement on the old system. Close examination of both the new and the old systems yields the inevitable conclusion that the goals of general education are better served under the new proposal. There is one thing that can be said without any doubts: if the general education proposal is not passed and no efforts are made to improve the current liberal learning program, it would seem as though a majority of the faculty is not concerned with general education to begin with. If that were the case Union surely cannot be regarded as a liberal arts college. Ste~·e Moss is the President of the Student Forum. Because There Comes A Time When Your Education Should Be More Than Just Preparing For Finals THE IDEALIST was started as a means to serve the school, its students, faculty and administration. It is published in hopes of raising the intellectual consciousness of the campus community by causing its readers to question their attitudes and think about their assumptions. Contributors in this Fall's issue include Sen. Gary Hart and Woody Allen. Look for it. It may take your thinking outside the classroom. The Idealist Fall 86 Union College's Single Literary Source Of Political & Social Opinion were, \Mario you ahnost had me voting for you there.\ D' Amato, on the other hand, produced slick ads that often looked more like \I Love New York\ music videos than campaign ads. This was especially true of the ad in which we saw, among other things, the New York City skyline at night, Niagara Falls, an upstate apple orchard, and a herd of dairy cattle. This ad featured the slogan, '' Al D' Amato, getting it done.\ However, all that we saw D' Amato doing was )?,laying football with his chtldren, picking apples, and kissing babies. An ad featuring D' Amato acting on his views on the MX missile, Star Wars, the· contras, or the budget deficit would have been much more appropriate. These ads, both the ones run by O'Rourke and by D' Amato, have demonstrated that these politicians have one thing in common, and that is cowardice when it came time to discuss the issues. Cuomo, by refusing to debate until the final week of the campaign, is also guilty of this charge. When the final story about the 1986 campaigns in New York is written, it should appropriately be titled, \The Color Yellow.'' This is why New York's voters should feel so disappointed in this November to forget.

l Page 10 CONCORDIE'NSIS, November 6~ 1986 THE ARTS ARTS BRIEFS Musical Talent at the Egg Pianist Liz Story and the Scott Cossu Trio will perform at the Egg on Satmday, Novep}ber 15 at 8 p.m. Tickets for the performance are $13.00 with a student rush being offered at $7.00 one-half hour before the show. Tickets are available through Community Box Offices or the box office of ESIPA at the Egg or by calling i73;.3750. American Craftsmen at Rice Gallery The faculty and students of the school for American Craftsmen of the Rochester Institute of Technology will be presenting their craftwork at the Rice Gallery of the Albany Institute of History and Art. Included in their exhibits will be textile work, glass art, woodworking, ceramics, metal crafts, and jewelry. The exhibit will be held from November 11 through December 20 with viewing' hours between Tuesdays and Satmdays from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Appointments can also be made for private viewings. For more information, call 463-4478. The Tap Dance Kid The National Touring production of 'The Tap Dance Kid' will retmn to Proctor's Theatre for an additional performance after last year's rave reviews. The show will take place on Monday, November 10 at 8 p.m. Tickets for the performance are $22, $18, and $13. Insects at Skidmore The play 'The Insect CQmedy' at Skidmore will be performed on December 4th, 6th, and 7th. It was written in the 1920's by two Czechoslovakian brothers, Josef and Karel Capek. 1'he play shows the life styles of insects, and their bizarre traits. Performances will begin at 8 p.m. on December 4 and 6 and at 3 p.m. on December 7. Tickets are $5.00 and $3.00 for students and Senior Citizens. For more information call 584- 5000, ext. 2347. I Remember Mama Siena College's Stage Three will . be performing ''I Remember Mama\. The story of the Hanson Family is told in a · series of remembrances which · take place in the mind of the eldest daughter. Performances · will be held on November 14, 15,. 21 and 22 at 8 p.m., and on November 23 at 2 p.m. in the F()y Campus Center Theatre. General admission is $8.00 and $6.00 for students and Senior Citizens. Tickets are available at Community Box Offices and the Siena Ticket Office or by calling 783-2527. Dance Classes With Paul Sanasardo Two master classes in Modern Dance taught by Mr. Paul Sanasardo will be presented by the Capital Area Dance Alliance. Classes will be held at the Union College Dance Studio on Saturday, November 1 and 15 from 10 a.m. until noon. All intermediate-advanced dancers are invited to par- ticipate .. The fee is $10.00, $5;00 with student I.D. and $8.00 for Dance Alliance members. For more information call 584-3255. Dr. Who in Albany On Saturday, November 8 there Will be a Dr. Who-Science Fiction Convention at the Albany Hilton :from 9 a.m. mtil 7 p.m. Convention activities will include guest panels and autograph sessions. Tickets are on sale- at Ticketron and Teletron for $10.00 in advance or $12.00 at the door. For more infonnation, please call Z74- 5412. Photography Exhibit Reaches Albany \Cleared to Land\ an exhibition of mural size black and white photographs by private pilot and professional photographer Jon Reis, will come to the Albany County Airport on November 7 throllgh December 20. Flying all around the state, Reis captured the day·to·day activities of the aviation world, depicting the people and the environment in which they work. · This is the last issue of the Fall term. Concordy will return on January 15th. See you next term! The English Concert The English Concert, Baroque At It's Best • By ERLE DAVIS This past Thursday night, conc.ert-goers in Memorial Chapel were treated to an evening of first class baroque music presented by · Revor Pinnock and the English Concert as part of the 1986-1987 Schenectady Nluseum and Union College Concert Series. Union was the first of on1y two performances the group was giving on this American tour, the other being a sold-out performance at Lincoln Center. It surprised me to see a number of empty seats in Memorial Chapel considering the international reputation of this group and the highly acclaimed recordings it has to its credit. The concert opened with the popular incidental music to the The :Faerie ~een by Henry Purcell. This work consists of eight different movements, each with its own characteristic melody and charm. The audience became inunediately aware of the skill Trevor Pinnock had cClnducting the orchestra from the harpsichord. I was especially impressed by the remarkably clean playing·of the orchestra druing the allegro sections for which Pinnock set very brisk tempo. Overall, the work was performed extremely well and was very pleasing to the audience. The next work performed was the Concerto Grosso in F Major by Corelli. This brief work contains a nwnber of tempo changes and utilizes interplay between large and small groups of instruments in the orchestra. It was played very well with especially good performances coming from the principal violinists. The third work, Handel's cantata, \Crudel tiranno Arnot\ introduced the crystal clear voice of S()prarto Sylvia McNair to the Union audience. McNair was very impressive, never making U1i.s work seem heavy or overdone. Equally good- was the vDcal dexterity which she displayed in the moving passages of this work. The only negative comment I could make was thatthe playing of the strings occasionally overpowered the vocal part. After intermission, the group opened the second half of the concert with the \Chacony in G minor\ of Purcell. This work also · featured very good ensemble playing by · the orchestra. The highlight of the concert was the group's closing work, the Cantata 202, \The Wedding Cantata\ by J. S. Bach. This cantata, scored for soprano, solo oboe, strings and continuo, is laid out as five arias interspersed with recitatives. The group performed this work. extremely well and the style of McNair's singing was perfect for thiS work. The English Concert ended their performance with a very memorable encore. The encore stamping and a variety of other consisted of their playing the liberties that ).{ept the audience last movement of the Bach laughing from .start to finish. again, only this time, the oboe All in all, this was· a top notch player was wearing a rfdnbow performance by one of wig, the cellist a purple wig, baroque's most talented groups. Pinnock a .rubber nose and I encourage all members of the glasses and McNair a baseball, Union College conununity to helmet. They also added take advantage of this concert especially heavy accents to the series which brings such great down.;beats 1 as. well as foot talent to campus. Hot Steamy J·az:z By EZRA SBERMEN The Union College Jazz Ensemble is a seventeen pieee big band whose members meet every Thursday to create fine music. The band plays any variety of Jazz from Swing to Funk to Fusion. The director, Keith Bushey, has 15 years experience as a band. director and presently works as musical director of the Mohonasen School District. · Besides working full time as a high schoql band director and part time as the Jazz Ensemble director, he is also lead trumpet in the \capitals\ big band~ · Shouldering the organizational responsibilities are president Mark Slaga, vice president ·Virginia Giugliano and treasurer ·Bill Boyd. Last year the Jazz Ensemble . represented Union College at the Morrisville Jazz Festival $d the College of St. Rose Jazz Festival. It also had two on~ campus productions, one of which was for the President's Reception in Jackson's Gardens. In the past year the b8Ild has undergone changes. Most noticeable has been the infusion of new blood. Last year's seniors have been replaced by a lar;ge group of talented and enthusiastic freshmen. After a few rehearsals, it looks as if this year's group might be one of the hottest ones yet. All the members are looking forward to the 1987 calendar of performances. Scheduled is a Pub performance and two concerts in the Winter and Spring. Watch the Concordy for exact dates. Come ·hear us take some of the chill out of the Schenectady winter. · ~ ., J ; ) .J ) l i

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, N()vember 6, 1986 THE ARTS· ARTS BRIEFS Musical Talent at the Egg Pianist Liz Story and the Scott Cossu Trio will perform at the Egg on Saturday, November 15 at 8 p.m. Tickets for the performance are $13.00 with a student rush being offered at $7.00 one-half hour before the show. Tickets are available through Community Box Offices or the box office of ESIP A at the Egg or by calling 173-3750. American Craftsmen at Ric:e Gallery The faculty and students of the school for American · Craftsmen of the Rochester Institute of Technology will be presenting their craftwork at the Rice Gallery of the Albany Institute of History and Art. Included in their exhibits will be textile work, glass art, woodworking, ceramics, metal crafts, and jewelry. The exhibit will be held irom November 11 through December 20 with viewing hours between Tuesdays and Saturdays from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Appointments can also be made for private viewings. For more information, call 463-4478. The Tap Dance Kid The National Touring production of 'The Tap Dance Kid' will return to Proctor's Theatre f(Jr an additional performance after last year's rave reviews. The show will take place on Monday, November 10 at 8 p.m. Tickets for the performance are $22, $18, and $13. Insects at Skidmore The play 'The Insect Comedy' at Skidmore will be performed on December 4th, 6th, and 7th. It was written in the 1920's by two Czechoslovakian brothers, Josef and Karel Capek. The play shows the life styles of insects, and their bizarre traits. Performances will begin at 8 p.m. on December 4 and 6 and at 3 p.m. on December 7. Tickets are $5.00 and $3.00 for students and Senior Citizens. For more information call 584- 5000, ext. 2347. I Remember Mama Siena College's Stage Three will be performing \I Rememl>er Mama\. The story of the Hmson Family is told in a series of remembrances which take place in the mind of the eldest daughter. Performances will be held on November 14, 15, 21 and 22 at 8 p.m., and on NovemlJer 23 at 2 p.m. in the .. Foy Campus Center Theatre. General admission is $3.0() and $6.00 for students and Senior Citizens. Tickets are available at Community Box Offices and the Siena Ticket Office or by calling 783-2527. Dane~ Classes With Paul Sanasardo Two master classes in Modem Dance taught by Mr. Paul Sanasardo will be presented by the Capital .Area Dance Alliance. Classes will be held at the Union College Dance Studio on Saturday, November 1 and 15 from 10 a.m. until noon. All intermediate-advanced dancers are invited to par- ticipate. The fee is $10.00, $5.00 with stlldent I.D. and $8.00 for Dance Alliance members. For · more infonnation call 584-3255. Dr. Who in Albany On Saturday, November 8 there will be a Dr. Who-Science Fiction Convention at the Albany Hilton from 9 a.m. until 7 p.m. Convention activities will include guest panels and autograph sessions. Tickets are on s~le at Ticketron and Teletron for $10.00 in adv8.11ce or $12.00 at the door. For more information, please call 274- 5412. Ph() tograph}' Exlribit Reaches Alban;: \Cleared to Land\ an exhibition of mural size black and white photographs by private pilot and professional photographer Jon Reis, will come to the Albany County Airp<Jrt on November 7 through December 20. Flying all around the state, Reis captured the day-to-day activities of the aviati(Jn world, depicting the people and the environment in which they work. · This is the last issue of the Fall term t) Concordy will return on January 15th. See you next term! 1 ne t::nglish Concert The English Concert, Baroque At It's Best By ERLE DAVIS This past Thursday night, concert-goers in Memorial Chapel were treated to an evening of first class baroque music presented by Revor Pinnock and the English Concert as part of the 1986-1987 Schenectady ~useurn and Union College Concert Series. Union was the first of only two performances the group was giving on this American tour, the other being a sold-out performance at Lincoln Center. It surprised me to see a number of empty seats in Memorial Chapel considering the international reputation of this group and the highly acclaimed recordings it has to its credit. The concert opened with the popular incidental music to the The Faerie Queen by Henry Purcell. This work consists of eight different movements, each with its own characteristic melody and charm. The audience became immediately aware of the skill Trevor Pinnock had conducting the orchestra from the harpsichord. I was especially impressed by the remarkably clean playing of the orchestra druing the allegro sections for which Pinnock set very brisk tempo. Overall, the work was perfonned extremely well and was very pleasing to the audience. The next work performed was the Concerto Grosso in F Major by Carelli. This brief work contains a nwnber of tempo changes and utilizes interplay between large and small groups of instruments in the orchestra. It was played very well with especially good performances coming from the principal violinists. The third work, Handel's cantata, \Crude! tiranno Amor\ introduced the crystal clear voice of soprano Sylvia ~cNair to the Union audience. MeN air was very impressive, never making this work seem heavy or overdone. Equally good· was the vocal dexterity which she displayed in the moving passages of this work. The only negative comment I could make was that the playing of the strings occasionally overpowered the vocal part. After intermission, the group opened the second half of the concert with the \Chacony in G minor\ of Purcell. This work also featured very good ensemble playing by the orchestra. The highlight Clf the concert was the group's closing work, the Cantata 202, \The Wedding Cantata\ by J. S. Bach. This cantata, scored for soprano, solo oboe, strings and continuo, is laid out as five arias interspersed with recitatives. The group perfonned this work. extremely well and the style of ~cNair's singing was perfect for this work. The English Concert ended their performance with a very memorable encore. The encore consisted of their playing the last movement of the Bach again, only this time, the oboe player was wearing a rainbow wig, the cellist a purple wig, Pinnock a rubber nose and glasses an.d McNair a baseball helmet. They also added especially heavy accents to the down-beats, as well as foot stamping and a variety of other liberties that kept the audience laughing from start to finish. All in aU, this was a top notch performance by one of baroque's most talented groups. I encourage all members of the Union College community to take advantage of this concert series which brings such great talent to campus. Hot Steamy Jazz By EZRASHERMEN The Union College Jazz Ensemble is a seventeen piece big band whose members meet every Thursday to create fine music. The band plays any variety of Jazz from Swing to Funk to Fusion. The director, Keith Bushey, has 15 years experience as a band director and presently works as musical director of the Mohonasen School District. Besides working full time as a high school band director and part time as the Jazz Ensemble director, he is also lead trumpet in the \Capitals\ big band. Shouldering the organizational responsibilities are president Mark Slaga, vice president Virginia Giugliano and treasurer Bill Boyd. Last year the Jazz Ensemble represented Union College at the Morrisville Jazz Festival and the College of St. Rose Jazz Festival. It also had two on- campus productions, one of which was for the President's Reception in Jackson's Gardens. In the past year the band has wtdergone changes. Most n(Jticeable has been the infusion of new blood. Last year's seniors have been replaced by a large group of talented and enthusiastic freshmen. After a few rehearsals, it looks as if this year's group might be one of the hottest ones yet. All the members are looking forward to the 1987 calendar of performances. Scheduled is a Pub performance and two concerts in the Winter and Spring. Watch the Concordy for exact dates. Come hear us take some of the chill out of the Schenectady winter. 8$.1 fm StHIO ADY \TH:I£ PlRST &TATJO.K·),tt THE NAYlt'lM~ ,. , '· Ne\•\(8.f7 · ~.- , , ·· 1 TfHs·J$ i transittonai',IW7-a&fne,,WftfJ:JC,e\e'¢u:tive : f!oard'i&'shuffling J)Osiff.ofts.. • · ., ''-'- · · · f:: au; · · · · · , · ···· ., ···· -,&cre•mrns l•lueMe-Sslan$ . .. . . :.12 1 ' '•. . ·· \Reoml;htt · ~~tveaw~r;t ·· 't\l's : <lr~atest · · ·. Sttifts-tn be trven awavweek:nilhts. . ._... , . Thre& eh$e~s .tor S~za,~~···V~~a- .. hl_··M~moriaf, · Cf\apel Mond'aY>Niig,hf- That;JM tGC!n'. · \··C()ntad ,.., . . ' . . ' • ,-, '', I'' ' •'

. CONCORDtENSIS, November 6, .1.98~ Pagell - Suzan·ne v·ega· at Me.morlal C~hapel ByCIJRISTINEHONG At 7:05 p.m. a small· crowd ha(J gathered outside of Memoria·l · Chapel as the minutes ticked until the doors would be open and the night allowed .to commence. The atmosphere was b,overing with anticipation; however, there was also a qUieting hush that had fallen over the crowd., The stoic arc::hitecture of the Chapel -o . towered above the waiting ~ grotlp and WQI.lld have ~ dominated the scene ifit'had' not E been for the fact that everyone ~ there was waiting to see {and .._ hear) S~anne Vega sing. E At 8:05 .p.m. the chapel was w b filled, the attendance had in· ~ creased ten times the s~e of the .S! outside crowd, and the opening. · g performer was ready totake the u stage ... Perhaps the most unfortunate part about Artie Traum's performance was that 4e had to precede Suzanne Vega. And despite his efforts, he was not able ·to· steal even a tiny bit of the show from M~. Vega. nor leave a lasting impressj.on upon Suzanne Vega the crowd. Arnie Traum's music, ·whic)1 is described as \spicy\ and even connotated in his latest albwn,. Cayenne, and ability on the acoustical guitar is what one could call accomplished. However, his stage per· formance was too rehearsed. His act (which, in this case, is a legitimate term for his stage perfonnance) was no.t as a musical performance, but. actually a menage of his OWl} songs.·and impressions of other· artists. such as Bob Dylan and James Taylor. It would not be too off to flatly call him a musical impressionjst and not a. true musical arti:st. Nev:erM theless, if it was Mr. Traun:i's intention to provide a comical, yet entertaming, performance, he did succeed. By 9:00 p.m. Suzanne Vega and her band had taken the stage, and had already achieved in captivating the audielJ,ce with the opening.song, \Some Journey\ which, ~n her album, she recorded with the help of Windham Hill artists Darol Anger and Mark Isham (for-all you Windham Hlll fans). In it, she asks '''If I had met you on some journey, where would we be now?\ And though the question bas an implication of the possible fates for two in· dividuals meeting, the lyrics do not stifle,. but like all of her songs, leave much t(J the imagination. The rest of the eveniiJg included · all <Jf ·. her songs from her album, Suzanne Vega, such as \Marlene on the Wall,\ \Undertow and \The Queen and the Soldier,\ which had a haunting effect on the crowd with the red stage lights and fantastical, yet coni· passionate, lyrics. Ms. Vega also performed several son.gs from her up- coming album, unnamed at the moment, s11ch as \Language (Liquid)\ which, even upon one· hearing, seems to capture and enhance her crisp .and sharp vocal interpretations of the lyrics. Among the other multitude of songs She per- fonned were ''Left of Center,\ \Gypsy which has just been re-released in Great Britain, and \Tom's Diner,\ an encore perfonnance which she chose to do without acoustical guitar. CSN at RPI Perhaps the only complaint, and a slightone at that, was that the back11p band at times lessened the.effect of such songs as ~·Th:e Qlfeen and The Soldier\' witb their at-times heavy synthesized sound. Ms. Vega's. encore songs of \Knight Moves\ and \Tom's Diner\. without the band behind her proved to be more evocative and allowed the individual to appreciate her voice, which was consistent throughout the night, even more. By JULIE STEINBERG Sunday night, November 2~ the audience at the RPI Fieldhouse was given the opportunity to hear the music of botb Judy Collins and Crosby, Stills and. Nash-music that has become a part of entertainment history. This concert was a benefit show for the elction campaign of Senator Mark Green who also -made an appearance. The audience became quite restless since the Show did not start until 8:35, more than one half hour off schedule. At this point, Miss Judy Collins took the stage. She. opened her portion of the show with her classic hit ''Both Sides Now\. During .her 25-minute performance, Miss Collins continued to end0rse Senator Green; this was something with which the audience soon began to lose patience. Judy Collins concluded with another popular song, \GoodMornin' America\. The song of hers that the audience expected to hear was \Send in The Clownsu, and Judy did not perfortn. this one Sunday night, . It seemed quite apparent to this reviewer that a large majority of the crowd came to hear the magical . music of Crosby, Stills and Nash. MuCh patie11ce was tested between the late .start of the concert, Judy Coilins' performance (with which. part of the audience seemed a little less than bored), several endorsements for Mark Green, a 25-miilute b1termissio11 between acts, and even a Short Hello by the senator hknself. But whatever s~t anger the audience might have previously had toward Senator Green vanished like magic JIS he welC()med~ Crosby, Stills and Nash to the stage. As the three men walked into the light, the audience gave their instant sign of delight and approval with a round of. applause that lasted for several minutes; anci this was before they had even begtirt to sing. Part of this ovation was also due to the fact that David Crosby has recently been released from jail-something that all were happy to see. The crowd rushed Up toward the stage during the opening number, \Wasted On The Way\ which reassured the three humble men on stage of their welcome. They continued to delight the audience . with \Change Partners\ and the first song that Crosby, Stills and Nash had ever stmg together, \You Don't Have To Cry\. They then played a Beatles' song, \Blackbird\, which was preceded . by a short comment on \The Fab Four\: \They're our favQrite group... besides us.\ A mood · change in 'the crowd was qUite noticeable as CSN went on to perform \Long Time Gone\. . REM at UVM By JABON GRAZADO and CHRISTIAN RQMEYN What could possibly be more fun than REM on Halloween?· REM with the Feelies? At the University of Vermont? On a friday night? As we discovered, not much; Picture this: you finish the day's exam, · hop in a cal\ and three hours later you're partying it up at UVM. After hitting several of the local clubs you find yourself in line with over three thousand other anxiou.s college students waiting to see some of the more talked abollt performers of the Eighties. REM. Upon entering the gym- nasium, there's already a band on stage. Ws nct REM. It must be the Feelies. Wow, they're fast! Too much of that 'JDlt' stuff, I gtleSS. The Feelies ·certainly did their job as warm • up band. :By the time they finiShed·their forty-five minute set the crowd.looked as wired as the band. I had the luek to After a shon intermission, the coincidentally be sitting next to lights dim. and four ~edy Rob Shaprio and Brian looking characters creep onto Tonsetneire who are diehard stage. They get the show CSN fans. Not only did they try moving qQic:kly by breaking out to guess each upcoming song, with a fast paced \These they also knew the history of Days,\ with Stipe, the lead some of the music. Brian · sin~er, Top hat, glow-in-the- informed me that \Long Time dark. m. ak:. eup and cape, Gone\ was written the night · bouncing aro11nd the stage .in his that Robert Kennedy was . · best fonn. Upon finishing, Stipe assassinated. caught his ·math and offered Coatinued oa page 12 apologies to hose who had been 'THE ARTS ARTS BRIEFS Second City Tour The national Touring Company of Second City .. will appear in Troy at RPI's West Hall Auditoriwn on Thursday, November 13. The perfonnance will begin at 9 p.m. Tickets are $7.000 and $5.00 for students. Tickets are available at Rensselaer Union Shelnutt Gallery and at Music Shack .in both Albany and Troy. For more information, call 266-6505. Graduates of Second City include comedic greats such as: Alan Aida, John Belushi, Robert Klein,. and David Steinberg. Anthony Newly at Proctor's 'Stcp The World I Want To Get Off\ starring Anthony · Newly will be presented at Proctor's Theatre from November 14 through · November 16. Tickets are on sale at the Proctor's Box Office or by calling 382-3884. Vinnie Vincent Invasion Vinnie Vincent's Invasion is opening for Alice Cooper at the Palace Theatre on November. 15. Vinnie Vincent was gutiarist and song writer for Kiss in the mid-80'S. Vinnie Vincent's Invasion is the fastest selling debut LP on Chrysalis records. NYSMuseum Honors Lady Liberty An exhibition entitled ''The Statue .of Liberty: A Con- temporacy Graphic View\ is on display at the New York State Museum through February l, 1987. The exhibit includes prints, drawings, watercolors, and collage. This event was organized by the Pratt Graphics Center in New York City. · Paul Taylor at P~octor's On Wednesday, November 5 cities· and made 32 overseas . and Thursday, November 6, tours to 53 different nations. The Proctor's Theatre will be host to Dance Company will be the Paul Taylor · Dance performing \Roses\, \Dust\~ Company. Tickets for the \Ab Oro Usque Ad Mala\ performances are $16, $14, and \Esplanade\, \Last Look\ and $10 and prices are half price for \A Musical Offering\. The NY people· under 18. For more Times called Taylor's information, please call 382· company, \One of the most 3384. The company has exciting dance companies in the performed in over 300 U.S. world.\ f) . .. at their poor UNH performance the night before. -\However said Stipe, \this is not New Hampsllire, this is Vermont.\ As expected, they played mostly S<lngs from their new album, Lives Rich Pageant, including an acoustic 12 string version of \Swan Swan Hum- min,gbird.\ This iS not to say that they didn't cover all their albwns. They pulled off an incredible version of ''Mo~:.al Kiosk,\ an older concert favorite, and 'We Walk' which is seldom heard live. Even with four albwns and a five song extended .play, the band con· tinned their tradition of playing covers to remind the audience that they're just a rock band, They played a very relaxed version of Lou Reed's \Femme Fatale\ (Peter Buck the guitarist, sitting down), \The Theme from Rawhide,\ and most of \Born to Run\ by Bruce Springsteen. Stipe had forgotten some of the words and wanted to get on to better things. We could make you jealous by telling you everything they played, and how they played it, but the point is moot. We won't tell you about how they came out for three encores, consisting of ten songs. Nor w1l1 we ten you about the country-western style \Don't Go Back to Rockville.\ And finally Stipe and Bm Berry, the Bassist, might not have closed the show with an a capella \Moon River\ in harmony. So don't worry, you didn't miss all that much. ......

CONCORDIENSIS, No Pember 6, I 98~ Page 11 Suzanne Vega at Memorial Chapel lly CHRISTINE HONG At 7:05 p.m. a small crowd. had gathered outside of Memorial Chapel as the minutes ticked Witil the doors would be open and the night allowed to commence. The atmosphere was hovering with anticipation; however, there was also a quieting hush that had fallen over the crowd. The stoic architecture of the Chapel J? towered above the waiting ..1 group and would have ~ dominated the scene if it had not E been for the fact that everyone .:; there was waiting to see ( artd t hear) Suzanne Vega sing. 'C At 8:05 p.m. the chapel was w filled, the attendance had in· I creased ten times the size of the ~ .... outside crowd, and the opening 5 performer was ready to take the 3 stage ... Perhaps the most unfortunate part about Artie Traum~s performance was that he had tG precede Suzanne Vega. And despite his efforts, he was Rot able to steal even a tiny bit of the show from Ms. Vega nor leave a lasting impression upon the crowd. Arnie Traum's music, ·which is described as \spicy\ and even connotated in his latest album, Cayenne, and ability on the acoustical guitar is what one could call accomplished. HoViever, his stage per· forrnance was too rehearsed. His act (which~ in this case, is a legitimate term for his stage performance) was not as a musical performance, bat actually a menage of his own songs and impressions of other artists such as Bob Dylan and James Taylor. It would not 1>€ too off to flatly call him a musical impressionist and not a true musical artist. Never- theless, if it was Mr. Traum's intention to provide a comical, Suzanne Vega yet entertairiing, performance, passionate, lyrics. he did succeed. Ms. Vega also performed By 9:00 p.m. Suzanne Vega several songs from her up- and her band had taken the commg album, unnamed at the stage, and had already moment, such as \Language achieved in captivating the (Liquid)\ which, even upon one audience with the opening song, hearing, seems to capture and \Some Journey\ which, on her enhance her crisp and sharp album~ she recorded with the vocal interpretations of the help of Windham Hill artists lyrics. Among the other Darol Anger and Mark Isham multitude of songs she per- (forallyou Windham Hill fans). formed were \Left of Center,\ In it, she asks \If I had met you \Gypsy which has just been on some journey, where would re-released in Great Britain, we be now?\ And though the and \Tom's Diner~\ an encore question has an implication of performance which she chose to the possible fates for two in- do without acoustical guitar. dividuals meeting, the lyrics do Perhaps the only complaint, not stifle, but like all of her and a slight one at that, was that songs, leave much to the the backup band at times imagination. The rest of the lessened the effect of such songs evening included all of her as \The Queen and The Soldier\ songs from her album, Suzanne with their at-times heavy Vega, such as \Marlene on the synthesized sound. Ms. Vega's Wall,\ \Undertow~\ and \The encore songs of \Knight Queen and the Soldier,\ which Moves\ and \Tom's Diner\ had a haWlting effect on the without the band behind her crowd with the red stage lights proved to be more evocative and fantastical, yet com- and allowed the individual to CSN at RPI appreciate her voice, which was consistent throughout the night, even more. By JULIE STEINBERG Sunday night. November 2. the audience at the RPI Fieldhouse was given the opportunity to hear the music ()t both Judy Collins and Crosby, Stills and Nash-music that has become a part of entertainment history. This concert was a benefit show for the elction campaign of Senator Mark Green who also made an appearance. The audience became quite restless since the show did not start Witil 8: 35, more than one half hour off schedule. At this point, Miss Judy Collins took the stage. She opened her portion of the show with her classic hit \Both Sides Now\. During her 25-minute performance, Miss Collins continued to endOrse Senator Green; this was something with which the audience soon began to lose patience. Judy Collins conducted with another popular songt \Good Mornin' America\. The song of hers that the audience expected to hear was \Send In The Clowns\ t and Judy did not perfonn this one Sun.day night. It seemed quite apparent to this reviewer that a large majority of the crowd came to hear the magical music of Crosby, Stills and Nash. Much patience was tested between the late start of the concert, Judy Collinst performance (with which part of the audience seemed a little less than bored), several endorsements for Mark Green, a 25--minute intennission between acts, and even a short heRo by the senator himself. But whatever slight anger the audience might have previously had toward Senator Green vanished like magic as he welcomed Crosby, Stills and Nash to the stage. As the three men walked into the light, the audience gave their instant sign of delight and approval with a roWid of applause that lasted for several minutes; and this was before they had even beg1Ul to sing. Part of this ovation was also due to the fact that David Crosby has recently been released from jail-something that all were happy to see. The crowd rushed up toward the stage during the opening nwnber~ \Wasted On The Way\ which reassured the three hwnble men on stage of their welcome. They continued to delight the audience with \Change Partners\ and the first song that Crosby, Stills and Nash had ever sung together, \YouDon'tHaveTo Cry\. They then played a Beatles' song, \Blackbird\, which was preceded by a short coDOinent on \The Fab Fourt>: \They~re our favorite group... besides us.\ A mood change in the crowd was quite noticeable as CSN went on to perform \Long Time Gone\. I had the luck to coincidentally be sitting next to Rob Shaprio and Brian Tonsemeire who are diehard CSN fans. Not only did they try to guess each upcoming song, they also knew the history of some of the music. Brian informed me that \Long Time Gone\ was written the night that Robert Kennedy was assassinated. Continued on page 12 REM at UVM By JASON GRAZADO and CHRISTIAN ROMEYN What could possibly be more fun than REM on Halloween? REM with the Feelies? At the University of Vermont? On a Friday night? As we discovered, not much. Picture this: you finish the day's exam, hop in a car, and three hours later you're partying it up at UVM. After hitting several of the local clubs you find yourself in line with over three thousand other anxious college students waiting to see some of the more talked about performers of the Eighties. REM. Upon entering the gym· nasium, there's already a band on stage. It's not REM. It must be the Feelies. Wow, they're fast! Too much of that 'Jolt' stuff, I guess. The Feelies certainly did their job as warm up band. By the time they finished their forty-five minute set the crowd looked as wired as the band. After a short intermission, the lights dim and four seedy looking characters creep onto stage. They get the show moving quickly by breaking out with a fast paced \These Days~\ with Stipe, the lead singer, Top hat, glow-in-the- dark makeup and cape, bouncing around the stage in his best form. Upon finishing, Stipe caught his breath and offered apologies to hose who had been .THE ARTS ARTS BRIEFS Second City Tour The national Touring Company of Second City will appear in Troy at RPI's West Hall Auditorium on Thursday, November 13. The performance 'will begin at 9 p.m. Tickets are $7.000 and $5.00 for students. Tickets are available at Rensselaer Union Shelnutt Gallery and at Music Shack in both Albany and Troy. For more information, call 266-6505. Graduates of Second City include comedic greats such as: Alan Aida, John Belushi, Robert Klein, and David Steinberg. Anthony Newly at Proctor's 'Stop The World I Want To Get Off'' starring Anthony . Newly will be presented at . Proctor's Theatre from · November 14 through • November 16. Tickets are on sale at the Proctor's Box Office or by calling 382~3884. Vinnie Vincent Invasion Vinnie Vincent's Invasion is opening for Alice Cooper at the Palace Theatre on November 15. Vinnie Vincent was gutiarist and song writer for Kiss in the mid-80's. Vinnie Vincent's Invasion is the fastest selling debut LP on Chrysalis records. NYSMuseum Honors Lady Liberty An exhibition entitled \The Statue of Liberty: A Con- temporary Graphic View\ is on display at the New York State Musewn through February 1, 1987. The exhibit includes prints, drawings, watercolors, and collage. This event was organized by the Pratt Graphics Center in New York City. Paul Taylor at Proctor's On Wednesday, November 5 cities and made 32 overseas and Thursday, November 6, tours to 53 different nations. The Proctor's Theatre will be host to Dance Company will be the Paul Taylor Dance perfonning \Roses\, \Dust\, Company. Tickets for the \Ab Oro Usque Ad Mala\ performances are $16, $14, and \Esplanade\, \Last Look\ and $10 and prices are half price for \A Musical Offering\. The NY people under 18. For more Times called Taylor's information, please call 382- company, \One of the most 3884. The company has exciting dance companies in the performed in over 300 U.S. world.\ at their poor UNH performance the night before. -\However said Stipe, \this is not New Hampshire, this is Vermont.'' As expected, they played mostly songs from their new album, Lives Rich Pageant, including an acoustic 12 string version of \Swan Swan Hum- mingbird.\ This is not to say that they didn't cover all their albums. They pulled off an incredible version of \Moral Kiosk,'' an older concert favorite, and 'We Walk' which is seldom heard live. Even with four albwns and a five song extended play t the band con- tinued their tradition of playing covers to remind the audience that they're just a rock band. They played a very relaxed version of Lou Reed's \Femme Fatale\ (Peter Buck the guitarist, sitting down), \The Theme from Rawhide,'' and most of \Born to Run\ by Bruce Springsteen. Stipe had forgotten some of the words and wanted to get on to better things. We could make you jealous by telling you everything they played, and how they played it, but the point is moot. We won't tell you about how they came out for three encores, consisting of ten songs. Nor will we tell you about the country-western style \Don't Go Back to Rockville.\ And finally Stipe and Bill Berry, the Bassist, might not have closed the show with an a capella \Moon River\ in hannony. So don't worry, you didn't miss all that much.

. ' ' . Page 12. CONCORDIENSIS, Novembe!:. 6, 1986 THE ARTS Jan and Buddy at the· Movies After this week no one will have the privilege of reading our insightful views of the cinema until next term. We are sure this is quite a devastating realization. Consequently we shall leave you with a few cinema suggestions for the upcoming vacation. Perhaps these movies can fill that gap of · yacation that arises each December when you are awaiting your hometown comrades to venture back from college. We hope you find our suggestions helpful. Genuinely Entertaming Stand by Me · Children of a Lesser God Peggy Sue Got Married Jumpin Jack Flash Uncoaventlonally Entertaining True Stories She's Gotta Have It+ Blue Velvet Sid and Nancy Hwnonus (bordering on ridiculous) Crockadile Dundee Tough Guys Soul Man +She's Gotta Have IT R \She's Gotta Have It\ is a documentary which focuses on one black woman's incapability_ of maintaining only one in- timate relationship at a time. Lola is engaging in three ex- clusive 8exual arrangements simultaneously; Each one of the men is' dismayed by Lola's insistence on retaining the other two. The men all portray distinctive personalities that each are quite endearing to Lola. As the movie progresses Lola's pals decide they are tired of playingtime sharing with the woman of their sole desire . At first Lola attempts to adhere to their request and select one singlemate. Lola struggles with this decision and even resorts to abstinence as a solution. In the end Lola realizes that she does not have to \have it\ though she wants to ''have it.''- After weeks of contemplation she decides that she must experience life as she sees fit. Lola gets to ''have it\ and finds no justifiable reasons why her recipients should be limited. \She's Gotta Have It\ is quite amusing and perhaps even thought provoking. Panel: Women's· A.rt Del Fueg.os:·Boston,Mass. ByJOYCYBUL • On Sundayt November 2, a panel discussion on a woman's role in the visual arts was presented in the Schenectady Museum by the Women's ·caucus for Art. 'This discussion was fDllowed by a reception and exhibit by women art1sts from New York State. The works shown consisted of paintings, drawings, sculptures, and photographs. The panel consisted of ·six )Vom.en with proficiencies in the' visual arts, and was headed by Janice Willard. The discussion open:ed with the question, \. I.s women's art different from men's art?\ The majority answer was a definite \yes because art is autobiographical in nature. When a woman creates, female imagery · will emerge. . Much of the discussion revolved around the need for recognition of women artists~ CSN. , •• Contillued from page 11 Steven Stills and Graham Nash left the stage for a while, and David Crosby .proceeded to single-handedly capture everyone's attention with \DeL1a\, a song for which he put doWil his guitar and sat and By SHAKESPEARE Conrad says the BoDeans Love and Hope and Sex and Dreams was a hot piece of vinyl on campus last year. Tum your volume knob clockWise and meet another no-frills band. The Dei Fuegos play straight- forward,· st.reet-level .rock and roll and the Boston, Mass. album belongs on your turn- table some Saturday night .. Make. that Saturday Night. The abbreviated Del Fuegos set at last year's Camp Union couldn't express this · band's guts. It's not. reruly food for thought music, although you'll find passion, laughter and '---~------~------------, camraderie-the key elements and much needed financial of a real Saturday Night- s\lpport from ·government expressed above Tom Lloyd's fundings, · ' bass in \Don't Run Wild\ or \Who determines quality or entwined wi~h the guitar of Dan art?\ The answer lies not in ~he Zane~s in' \It's Alright.\ talent of -the artist, bu~ un• You don~t need the CD v.ersion fortlinately in the ;perception of and it's not material your mind judges and · spectators. A · will play with fQr weeks after judge's prejucUce and inabijity · . the fit~ Usten. But some great to relat~ are two ways to affect inuaic is about heart, not the probability of being choseQ · P\lilosophy, and sometime when as a contributor to 1.m exbibit. yo.ur girlfriend or boy friend is Everyone agreed. that ~ing annoyed at you and you want to an artist for a living is not an . turn Saturday nlgllt · into · extremely financiany satisfying Saturday Night, you\'re going to profession, but is very need this record. And a six- spiritually rewarding. pack. And not much else. played the piano. David Crosby then resumed his gllitar .playing as he sang \Compass 77 ~ a song which he wrote while he was in prison. He expb,uned the song to be \about finding a way.\ Crimes Of The Heart Union's Orchestra David Crosby was then joined on stage by Graham Nash for their classic duet !'Guinnevere\ after which Nash delighted the audience. with some of his solo material. He briefly made mention .of the charity concert for Cerebral Palsy that he had recently done with' several performers incl1,1ding Neil Young (who brought the. show together) and Bruce Springsteen. Graham Nash then · sang \Try To Find Me,\ a song which he hatl nevel' performed before a live audience. Nash described the song to be about a \beautiful mind in a body that doesn't work.\ His second solo ''Magical Child'' included a demonstration of his incredible harmonica playing. . · \Our House'',.a song which the audience eagerly participated. There didn't seem to be one person w:bo wasn't singing along as CSN performed one of their most famous songs. Immediately following \Our House\ was '.'Suite: Judy Blue Eyes 1 ' (supposedly written with Judy Collins in :mind). As the lyrics \Don't let the past remind us of what we are not now\ were sung, a tremendous round of applause was heard which recognized David Crosby's long awaited return to freedom. Steven Stills also took the spotlight as he gave an outstanding guitar solo. It was at this point that CSN left the stage, but. the audience lmew that the show was not yet over. ByPENNIMORGANSTEIN The Nott Memorial Theatre is now playing host to the Mountebanks production· of Crimes of the Heart. The play be Beth Henley is well suited to the theatre in the round. It allows the audience an inside look ·at the lives of the three McGrath sisters at such close proximity that the audience can ahnost feel the sisters' emotions first hand. What we as an audience discover is how the McGrath sisters cope in a world that has been less than kind to them and how they handle \a really bad day.\ By MELISSA STEWART Jill: Hi Jack, how are things going? Jack: Pretty well. How are you doing? Jill: Great! Oh, by the way, where were you last Thursday night around 7: 30? I tried to call. Jack: I was at orchestra practice. · Jill: Orchestra? Does Union College have its own orchestra? Jack: You bet it does! There are about fifty members and we practice every Thursday night at 7:15. Jill: I never realized that. Who's in charge of it and when do you have concerts? Jack: Professor Tann is the conductor. S.he does a gre~t job. She has a lot of enthusiasm. Rigllt now we are preparing for a concert that will be presented during the third week of Winter Term. Our next concert after that is during Parents' Weekend. I'm really looking forw.ard to these performances. . Jill: You know, I used to play the Dboe in my high school band. Do you think that I could join? Jack: Sure, just come to any rehearsal to find out more about what orchestra is all about. We could really use BJl oboe player. We also need more people in the strings section. Jill: Goodl I'll see you at the next or chestra rehearsal. It · soun:ds-like fun. . Jack: O.K., I'll be. looking for you. Last to perform solo was Steven Stills who did so by singing \Love The One You're With\ which instantly brought the life back to the crowd after they had just heard ~everal more mellow songs .. .Graham Nash then returned to the stage to accompany Steven Stills for an unsurpassable performance of \Southern Cross\ a rendition which would be nearly impossible to replicate. . • Several minutes later they returned to the stage for an en()ore where they performed \Daylight Again\ which was then followed by ''Find The Cost of Freedom\. Crosby, Stills arid Nash ended their show With _an uplifting version of ''Teach Your Children\ in which the audience once again sang along. Although there are some light moments throughout the play it is of a serious nature and touches on many different , ______ ..:___,---~--================~ emotions. The play begins with character's zest for life and David Crosby once agam joined his partners on. stage for Graham Nash made , a comment early on in the show. He said: \Sex symbols we're not, so it must be the music that brings you here.\ As the crowd left the RPI Fieldhouse at 11:45 that night, each person took with him the memory of -having just seen and heard. Crosby, Stills and Nash. It was sincerely the music that brough~ us!! ! Lenny McGrath · (Claire added a certain spWlk to the Cousineau) celebrating her play. Jessica Adelson's por- thirtieth birthday alone. Lenny trayal of the young Babe is waiting for her sisters', Babe Botrelle brought the audience (Jessica Adelson), 24, and Meg thrDugh such extreme (Kerrie Ticknor), 27, arrival. emotional highs and lows that Babe is expected home rom jail one personally experienced the where she has been kept after mood swings. allegedly attempting to kill her Also worthy of mention are husband. Meanwhile Meg is the other members of the cast. flying in from Hollywood- where · Robin Thompson's portrayal of she is unsuccessfully pursuing a the annoying Chic;k Boyle w~s singing career. so accurate it took all of this As the play Wlfolds and critic's strength to sit there and tragedy after tragedy befall the listen to her. Meserve Platt's McGrath women we, the performance of the reticent Doc audience, are allowed into their Porter was well done~ One could hearts. We feel the pain and almost feel now much he had fearoflosing a loved one, being suffered. Finally, the per-· · 1f d formance of Steve Brown as alone, of failmg onsee an -or Barnette Uoyd, the young at- falling a family member. We witness the bizarre relation- torney with a driving ambition ships of the three sisters and captured the character's f 1 h t . ht f il bo d energy and enthusiasm. can ee t e Ig am Y n Th. e extensive production they share. d k d While this critic did not en]· O)' staff whose har · wor an commitment made the play a the content of the play itself, the very professional endeavor performances of all the actors · d F' ll were quite professional. They should not go unnot1ce . ma .Y worked well as an ensemble, the fine scenery and mus1c ea cll complementin~ the. other' .s. which accompanied the play enhanced the audience's en- talent. Claire ousineau's joyment of ·the production. It portrayal of Lenny McGrath was quite a ~rfonnance and all was heart wanning. She made ~\'- f the audience . feel · her of those who are in search o lonellnesss. Kerrie Ticknor as fine entertaimnent must see Meg aeemed to bring out the Crimes of the Heart.

Pag~ 12. CONCORDIENSIS, Novembe!_ 6, 1986 THE ARTS After this week no one will h.ave the privilege of reading ()llr insightful views of the cinema until next term. We are s-ure this is quite a devastating. r-ealization. Consequently we shall leave you with a few cinema suggestions for the ap(!()ming vacation. Perhaps tllesE movies can fill that gap of vaoeation that arises each DecEmber when you are awaiting your hometown eorn:rades to venture back from eollege. We hope you find our sug~estions helpful. «ienumely Entertaining Stand by Me Children of a Lesser God Peggy Sue Got Married J umpin Jack Flash Unconventionally Enteriabling Trtle Stories She'~ Gotta Have It+ Blu~ Velvet Sill and Nancy Humorous (bordering on ridiculous) Croekadile DWldee To11gll Guys Soul Man +Sh.e' s Gotta Have IT R \She's Gotta Have It\ is a do()l.lmentary which focuses on onE black woman's incapability of maintaining only one in- timate relationship at a time. Lo.l11 is engaging in three ex- clusive sexual arrangements simultaneously. Each one of the men is dismayed by Lola's insistence on retaining the other two. The men all portray distinctive personalities that each are quite endearing to Lola. As the movie progresses Lola's pals decide they are tired of playing time sharing with the woman of their sole desire . At first Lola attempts to adhere to their request and select one single mate. Lola struggles with this decision and even resorts to abstinence as a solution. In the end Lola realizes that she does not have to \have it\ though she wants to \have it.\ After weeks of contemplation she decides that she must experience life as she sees fit. Lola gets to \have it\ and finds no justifiable reasons why her recipients should be limited. \She's Gotta Have It\ is quite amusing and perhaps even thought provoking. Panel: Women's Art Del Fuegos: Boston, Mass. ByJOYCYBUL On Sunday, November 2, a panel discussion on a we man's role in the visual arts was pr-esented in the Schenectady Museum by the Women's ·Caucus for Art. This discussion was followed by a reception and exhibit by women artlsts from New York State. The works shown. consisted of paintings, drawings, sculptures, and photographs. The panel consisted of six yromen with proficiencies in the visual arts, and was headed by Janice Willard. The discussion opened with the question, \Is women's art different from men's art?\ rhe majority answer was a definite \yes because art is autobiographical in nature. When a woman creates, female imagery will emerge. Much of the discussion revolved aroWld the need for recognition of women artists, CSN ••• Continued from page 11 Steven Stills and Graham Nash left the s~ge for a while, and David Crosby proceeded to single-handedly capture everyone's attention with \Delta\, a song f()r which he put down his guitar and sat and E)'SIIAKESPEARE Conra.d says the BoDeans Love am!l. H4Jpe and Sex and Dreams. was a hot piece of vinyl on campll1l last year. Turn your valUDile knob clockwise .and meet an other no-frills band. The Del Fueg()s play straight- forward, street-level rack and roll and the &ston, Mass. album belongs on your turn- table some Saturday night. Make that SatUJ\day Night. The abbreviated Del Fuegos set at last year's Camp Union couldn't express this band's guts. It's not really food for thought music, although you'll find passion, laughter and '--------------., camraderie-the key elements and much needed financial of a real Saturday Night- support from government expressed above Tom Lloyd's fundings. bass in \D<ln't Run Wild\ or \Who determines quality of entwined with the guitar of Dan art?\ 'Tile answer lies not in the Zane's in \It's Alright.\ talent of the artist, but un- Youdon'tneedthe CD version fortunately in the perception of and it's not material your mind judges ~nd spectators. A will play with for weeks after judge's prejudice and inability the first listen. But some great to relatearetwo ways to affect music is about heart, not the pr~babiJity of being chosen philosophy, and sometime when as a co:lltributor to an exhibit. your girl friend or boy friend is Everyo11e agreed that being annoyed at you and you want to an art~ f()r a living is not an turn Saturday night into extremelyfinancially satisfying Saturday Night, you're going to profess;i()n, but is very need this record. And a six- spiritua]y rewarding. pack. And not much else. played the 11iano. David Crosby \Our House\ a song which the then resumed his guitar playing audience eagerly participated. as he san.g \Compass\, a song There didn't seem to be one which h.e note while he was in person who wasn't singing pris<ln.lle explained the song to along as CSN perfonned one of be \abJut finding a way.\ their most famous songs. David Crosby was then j€liJied Immediately following ''Our on stage by Graham Nash for House\ was \Suite: Judy Blue theirel!lssicduet \Guinnevere\ Eyes\ (suppesedly written with after 'VIhicb.. Nash delighted the Judy Collins in mind). As the andienc,e wit:h some of his solo lyrics \Don't let the past materiaL He briefly made remind us of what we are not mentioll ()f the charity concert now\ were sung, a tremendous for Cerebral Palsy that he bad round of applause was heard recentl::y done with several which recognized David Crimes Of The Heart Union's Orchestra perfor!Ilers including Neil Crosby's long awaited return to Young (Wh() brought the show freedom. Steven Stills also took together) and Bruce the spotlight as he gave an By MELISSA STEWART Springsteen. Graham Nash tllen outstanding guitar solo. It was She has a lot llf enthusiasm. sang \Tr:y 'To Find Me,\ a song at this point that CSN left the Right now we are preparing for which rue had never performed stage, but the audience knew Jill: Hi Jack, how are things a concert that will be presented before .a live audience. Nash that the show was not yet over. going? during the third. week of Winter describetl the song to be about a Several minutes later they EyPENNI MORGANSTEIN The Nott Memorial Theatre is Jack: Pretty well. How are Term. our neKt concert after \beautiful mind in a body that returned to the stage for an n()W playing host to the you doing? that is during Parents' doesn't wor-k.\ His second solo encore where they performed M<luntebanks production of Jill: Great! Oh, by the way, Weekend. I'm really looking \Magic~ Child\ included a \Daylight Again\ which was Crimes of the Heart. The play where were you last Thursday forward to these performances. demonstr2tion of his incredible then followed by \Find The Cost L.- Beth Henley t's well suited to d O? I · d harrnonic.a playing. of Freedom\. Crosby, Stills and J..Je night aroun 7:3 . tne to N h d d th · h 'th thE theatre in the round. It call. Jill: You know, I used to play Last to perform solo was as en e e1r s ow Wl an allows the audience an inside Jack: 1 was at orchestra the oboe in my high school band. Steven Stills who did so by uplifting version of \Teach loolc at the lives of the three practice. Do you think that I could join? singin~S \Love The One You're Your Children\ in which the :NceGrath sisters at such close Jill: Orchestra? Does Union Jack: Sure, just come to any With\ V'VIlich instantly br()ught audience once again sang along. proKimity that the audience can College have its own orchestra? rehearsal to find out more about the life back to the crowd after Graham Nash made a allnostfeelthesisters' emotions Jack: You bet it does! There what orchestra is all about. We they :had. jast heard several comment early on in the show. first hand. What we as an are about fifty members and we could really use an oboe player. more nnell()w songs. Graham He said: \Sex symbols we're audience discover is how the practice every Thursday night We also need m<Jre people in the Nash th-En r-eturned to the stage not, so it must be the music that McGrath sisters cope in a world strings section. to aceo:rm)lany Steven Stills f<Jr brings you here.\ As the crowd that has been less than kind to atJl{?: 5 · I never realized that. Jill: Good! I'll see you at the an un:swpassabie performance left the RPI Fieldhouse at 11:45 thern and how they handle \a Who's in charge of it and when next or chestra rehearsal. It of •cs.outhern Cross\ a that night, each person took real.ly bad day.\ do you have concerts? sounds like fun. renditi~n which would be nearly with him the memory of having Although there are some light Jack: Professor Tann is the Jack: O.K., r~u be looking for impossible to replicate. just seen and heard Crosby, moments throughout the play it conductor. She does a great job. you. Davicl Crosby once again Stills and Nash. It was sincerely ~~a~us~re~L~~=~~~~~=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fu~E~d~~i~P~~oo~~~ ~m~~~~us!!! t()Uches on many different ernotions. The play begins with character's zest for life and Lenny McGrath (Claire added a certain spunk to the Cousineau) celebrating her play. Jessica Adelson's por- tlliMieth birthday alone. Lenny trayal of the young Babe is waiting for her sisters', Babe Botrelle brought the audience (Je~sica Adelson), 24, and Meg through such extreme (Kerrie Ticknor), 27, arrival. emotional highs and lows that B~be is expected home rom jail one personally experienced the w11ere she has been kept after mood swings. ll dl tt t . t kill h Also worthy of mention are a ege Y a emp mg 0 er the other members of the cast. husband. Meanwhile Meg is fi:Yi~Jg in from Hollywood where Robin Thompson's portrayal of she is unsuccessfully pursuing a the annoying Chick Boyle was silJging career. so accurate it took all of this A..s the play unfolds and critic's strength to sit there and bef listen to her. Meserve Platt's tra~edy after tragedy all the performance of the reticent Doc McGrath women we, the awdience, are allowed into their Porter was well done. One could hearts. We feel the pain and almost feel how much he had fear of losing a loved one, being suffered. Finally' the per- u d formance of Steve Brown as alo11e, of failing onsee an -or Barnette Lloyd, the young at- felling a family member. We witness the bizarre relation- torney with a driving ambition shlps of the three sisters and captured the character's h · h f 'l bo d energy and enthusiasm. cara feel t e ttg t ami Y n The extensive production they share. d k d Mille this critic did not enjo)' staff whose bar wor an the content of the play itself, the commitment made the llay a pterlormances of all the actors very professional en eavor were quite professional. They should not go unnoticed. Finally W\OI'ked well as an ensemble, the fine scenery and music e 8 ,.h complementino the other's which accompanied the play .... l> enhanced the audience's en· talent. Claire Cousineau's joyment of the production. It pvrtrayal of Lenny McGrath was quite a N>rformance and all W'.lla heart warming. She made ~\- f tile audience feel her of those who are in search o lDI!elinesss. Kerrie Ticknor 88 fine entertairunent must see lit~ seemed to bring out the Crimes of the Heart.

L ij fJ ~1 t / CONCORDfENSIS, November 6, 1986 Page 13 CLUB NEWS Jewish Student Unton. Friday Nov. 7: Tony Weiner-'\Anti~ Semitism Today\ 7:00 in Kosher Kitchen. Dinner at 6 :00 p.m. $4 members, $5 non- members. Jewish Student Union. Sun· day, Nov. 9, Trip to N.Y. state Museum Holocaust Exhibit. Lecture by Dr. Norma Ball. Leaving. Union at \12:45 p.m. outside· Old Chapel. · Frlal.' Paul 1o -Preach- Sunday, November 9, Friar Paul Reinhardt who served for two- years with: Newman Mibistry at Union will be Deacon and preach at the. 7 :30 p.m. Mafls at St. John the Evangelist. · Friar P~ul is completing his Theological Studies and will be .ordained a prie~t on May 23. A reception will-follow at St. John's Rectory for the Union community. Newman Folk Group-All sipgers and musicians in- ter.ested_ in being part of the Music MiniStry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy at St. ·John the ·Evangelist may meet with Friar PhU at 6:30 .p.m. in the church to rehe·arse. Tap ·Dance Kid-Monday, November 10, at Proctor's at 8 p.m. Anyone interested in_ picking up half-price tickets f(}r $11, 9 or 6.50 please meet at Old Chapel Plaza at 7:30 p.m. The Union College Film Committee presents: 11-7- 11·9, Emerald Forest at 7, 9, and 11. 11·11, My Bodygilard at 7, 9, and 11. ' Tickets are available' at the Old· Chapel for $1. CLASSIFIEDS Apts. for Rent: 2 BR, kitchen, · living room, dining room, wa$her-dryer. One month free . rent. 869-9632. Available Dec. will accept now for January. 571 SUJ1linit Ave. Typing-All kinds. Accurate professional. 377~73~ Where'$ Bert? Black lab wearing red .bandana. H found contact Curt at 381-4089. .. • Help wanted: $60·perhundred . · p~id for remailing letters from · home! Send sell-addressed, st1;1mped envelope for tn .. fonnation·application. Asso- ciates., Box 95-B Roselle NJ 07203. Found: Glasses fu brown leather case near Skellar. Call Andy, x4462. Typing-done by Executive Secretary, top quality results. ·. $1.~5 per page. Call Judy 399- 3383. . ' - - PER$0NALS , .Personi:lis Poltcy: · The editors of the newspaper reserve the ·right to 'withhold . .any personals containing of-- fensive remarks, vulgar . language and-or profanity. We a-pologize· for any · personals printed which are found of- fensive. Congratulations SOT pledges. Love,. the. sisters SDT Pledges-We're psyched to have you - the Annex · Chrissy, In the immortal words of Huey Lewis .... It's delightful. Maria P.I.D. It's too lonely here without . you! Come back soon! Chrissy, I love ya, YourD.I:P. I don't know how to tell you I'm interested, so I'll just tell you: I'M INTERESTED. . How about you? K. Greenburgh Park goes to the mall again and again and again... · The secret to the 1050 Park Dririk-0-Rama 's Pass-out . Punch is Potato Particulates. I'm Meg. I used to work at the . Computer Center. I'm Jackie. I used to work at the library. I'm Jodi. I used to work at Proc- tor's. AND I'm Larry. Now they · work for me. They're Sacchi's AngelS; \It's Not just a party, it's total sickness.\ -Your mother ''Clan I try on all your clothes? .... \ Drew, if Meg.'s like my sister, and you're like her brother, then I'm like your brother, so does that mean. I can't give you • •••• ? . Happy Birthday La uri! l! Goose, y(}u are the cutest! ! I love· you. Come over? Rocko Hey .Exhibitionist, Been to . any good. fire drills lately? Rowdy RichmondRags Julie, Matt, James, Aaron; Lisa, Nancy, Hartman, Meg, Anne, Lawrence, Jim and John abroad: · Ummm ... Hi Froni209 A- I've·managed to find purple snails overseas, but I'm still looking for ho-bo's. Love, The other A c-o209 Hey pals; hey pals, hey palS, hey pals, hey pals, hey pals. Congratulations Jim on a job well done. 2 more years in the Assembly is just what we need! H~y pals, I missed you on Saturday night. Did you have fWl? Love, yoilr Pal. .. On behalf of the Union College CorrunWiity, we would like to congratulate our Assemblyman Jim Tedisco and wish him well! To my big Pal, Sorry that I didn't make it Saturday. I owe you one. Love, the Big Hal Dear Val You have a secret D.C. ad- mirer. Love Fred Amy, Congrats on your ma~ched bid -at Tri-Delt. Thanks again for an , amazing weekend. You are THE BEANS! Love, Rob L.A. B., What can I say, you and I Congratulations To The Following Winners For ''Guess the candy in the Pumpkin Contest\' Held at all four dining halls last week. Winners: Guess Amount in Jar WestCollege Paul Holiday Old Chapel Paul Fox Rathskellar Carmela Creech Hal~ House Julie Mountain #998 #613 #792 #683 #993 #613 #792 #683 To everyone else· better luck in spring time when we count jelly beans!! Congratulations to the followill9 students who dressed up oh Halloween, and won prizes at The RathSkellar's \First Annual Hal.loween Costume Contest Tom Christophe '88 Bald Old Man Rebkah Thayer '90 Dracula JodlG. Burgeso '87 1920's Flapper Joanne McAndrews '88 Raggedy Ann Mark Webster '88 Ragg.edy Andy Michele VanPatten '88 Whimpy Trash Bag Gail 'a:tumenfield '88 Hefty Trash Bag AllWinners can p.ick up their prizes at the Rathskellar, ask for a manager on duty. Look for bigger & better prizes next year! I have been growing closer than I ever thought possible. Remember that I am. always here for you. I LOVE YOU. B.U.D. Bugs, . Time will tell! Love, someone who's watching. Ash-Thanks for helping me out. I know that I made the right choice. · -C. Sherm, Thanks for taking care of me. I love you! Mic Andrea & Lisa HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! · Michelle Andrea B. ·\ · How many. men ~n you juggle at one time? You've been · . lucky so far .... Congratulations to the newest DG pledges. Love tJ:ie Sisters -of DG .. DGN Thanks for the two wonderful years- You've made them so special for me. I riliss you and can't wait to see you. Ti-amo, SEC Keep up the enthusiasm DG pledges; just let the sisters in on some of the fun, too. Dahling- I'm yours! The 00 sisters Your Princess Congratulations to the Alpha Pledges of Gamma Phi Beta. The sisters are psyched to have yo-p. with us. Love in PKE (?) YourPR To the Delta Gamma Sisters, We're psyched and looking forward,. to an exciting and memorable pledge period! Love, the DG Pledges Hey, Katie! Thanks for carrying our dozen roses and two packages back to the room. Take a . picture! HapP.Y birg thday!! Love, Steff,. Wtta, and . Nance Dear Zuk: Happy Birthday! . Love, Kat Tri-J?od . Congratulations on not having any new peas as of yet. Func- tion next week. Rock 'N Roll Pizza Pub ''Monday Night Football'' Special If you can give us the correct score to Monday night football when you call up and order a 6~cut or 8-cut· piiza, we'll give you ONE free topping. So, ca II us any Monday night this term. And, remember: When you order from the Pizza Pubr you are supporting students, not big business. Pizza Pub: 370-6060 · SPRlNGBREAK '87 Campus _Rep. Organize Sailing Charters Ft. Lauderdale to Bahamas Commission & Free Cruise Call Captain Williams 1650 SW 23rd Terrace, Ft. Lauderdale 33312 (305) 583-0202 Anytime Wientautt' s . QJienners & tUailnrs1fit~. 171-t UNlON Sl AEET (518) 374-6647 Spedaliting in Suede & Leather Cleaning Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome

CONCORDIENS/S, Novemher6, 1986 Page 13 ----------------------------------------------- CLUB NEWS Jewish Student Union. Friday Nov. 7: Tony Weiner-\.Anti- Semi:tism Today'' 7: 00 in Kosher Kitchen. Dinner at 6:00 p.m.. $4 members, $5 non- members. Jewish Student Union. Sun- day, Nov. 9. Trip to N.Y. State Museum Holocaust Exhibit. Lecture by Dr. Norma Ball. Leaving Union at 12:45 p.m. outside Old Chapet Friar Paul to Preach- Sunday, November 9, Friar Paul Reinhardt who served for two years with Newman Ministry at Union will be Deacon and preach at the 7:30 p.m. Mass at St. John the Evangelist. Friar Paul is completing his Theological Studies and will be ordained a priest on May 23. A reception will follow at St. John's Rectory for the Union community. Newman Folk Group-All singers and musicians in- terested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7: 30 p.m. Liturgy at St. John the Evangelist may meet with Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Tap Dance Kid-Monday, November 10, at Proctor's at 8 p.m. Anyone interested in picking up half-price tickets for !1)11, 9 or 6.50 please meet at Old Chapel Plaza at 7: 30 p.m. The Union College Film Committee presents: 11-7 - 11-9, Emerald Forest at 7, 9, and 11. 11-11, My Bodygilard at 7, 9, and 11. Tickets are available at the Old Chapel for $1. CLASSIFIEDS Apts. for Rent: 2 BR, kitchen, living room, dining room, washer-dryer. One month free rent. 869-9632. A vail able Dec. will accept now for January. 571 Swnrnit Ave. Typing-All kinds. Accurate professional. 377..0373. Wbere's Bert? Black lab wearing red bandana. If found contact Curt at 381-4089. . Help wanted: $60 per hundred paid for remailing letters from home! Send self-addressed, stamped envelope for in- fonnation-application. Asso- ciates, Box 95-B Roselle NJ 07203. Found: Glasses in brown leather case near Skellar. Call Andy, x4462. Typing-done by Executive Secretary, tap quality results. $1.25 per page. Call Judy 399- 3383. - PERSONALS Personals Policy: The editors of the newspaper reserve the right to withhold any personals containing of-- fensive remarks, vulgar language and-or profanity. We apologize for any personals printed which are found of- fensive. Congratulations SOT pledges. Love, the sisters SDT Pledges-We're psyched to have you - the Annex Chrissy, In the trn..mortal words of Huey Lewis .... It's delightful. Maria P.I.D. It's too lonely here without you! Come back soon! Chrissy, Iloveya, Your D.I.P. I don't know how to tell you I'm interested, so I'll just tell you: I'M INTERESTED. How about you? K. Greenburgh Park goes to the mall again and again and again ... The secret to the 1050 Park Drink-0-Rama' s Pass-out Punch is Potato Particulates. I'm Meg. I used to work at the Computer Center. I'm Jackie. I used to work at the library. I'm Jodi. I used to work at Proc- tor's. AND I'm Larry. Now they work for me. They're Sacchi's Angels. \It's Not just a party, it's total sickness.\ -Your mother \Can I try on all your clothes? .... \ Drew, if Meg's like my sister, and you're like her brother, then I'm like y()Ur brother, so does that mean I can't give you . .... ? Happy Birthday La uri! ! ! Goose, you are the cutest! ! I love you. Come over? Rocko Hey Exhibitionist, Been to any gaod fire drills lately? Rowdy Richmond Rags Julie, Matt, James, Aaron, Lisa, Nancy, Hartman, Meg, Anne, Lawrence, Jim and John abroad: Ummm ... Hi Fram209 A- I've ·managed to find purple snails overseas, but I'm still looking for ho-h()'s. Love, The other A o-o209 Hey pals, hey pals, hey pals, hey pals, hey pals, hey pals. Congratulations Jim on a job well done. 2 more years in the Assembly is just what we need! Hey pals, I missed you on Saturday night. Did you have fun? Love, yoilr Pal. On behalf of the Unien College Community, we would like to congratulate our Assemblyman Jim Tedisco and wish him well! To my big Pal, Sorry that I didn't make it Saturday. I owe you one. Love, the Big Hal Dear Val You have a secret D.C. ad- mirer. Love Fred Amy, Congrats on yoW' matched bid at Tri-Delt. Thanks again for an · amazing weekend. You are THE BEANS! Love, Rob L.A.B., VVhat can I say, you and I Congratulations To The Following Winners For \Guess the candy in the Pumpkin Contest\ Held at all four dining halls last week. Winners: Guess Amount in Jar West College Paul Holiday Old Chapel Paul Fox Rathskellar Carmela Creech Hale House Julie Mountain #998 #613 #792 #683 #993 #613 #792 #6S3 To everyone else better luck in spring time when we count jelly beans!! Congratulations to the following students who dressed up on Halloween, and won prizes at The Rathskellar's \First Annua I Halloween Costume Contest Tom Christophe '88 Bald Old Man Rebkah Thayer '90 Dracula Jodi G. Burgesn '87 1920's Flapper Joanne McAndrews '88 Raggedy Ann Mark Webster '88 Raggedy Andy Michele VanPatten ''88 Whimpy Trash Bag Gail Blumenfield '88 Hefty Trash Bag All winners can pick up their prizes at the Rathskellar. ask for a manager on duty. Look for bigger & better prizes next year! have been growing closer than I ever thought possible. Remember that I am always here for you. I LOVE YOU. B.U.D. Bugs, Time will. tell! Love, someone who's watching. Ash-Thanks far helping me out. I know that I made the right choice. -C. SJ:lerm, Thanks for taking care of me. I love you! Mic Andrea & Lisa HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! Michelle Andrea B. Hew many men can you juggle at one time? You've been lucky so far ... Congratulations to the newest DG pledges. Love the Sisters of DG DGN Thanks for the two wonderful years-You've made them so special for me. I miss you and can't wait to see you. Ti-amo, SEC Keep up the enthusiasm DG pledges; just let the sisters in on some of tile fun, too. Dahling-- I'm yours! The DG sisters Your Princess Congratulations to the Alpha Pledges of Gamma Phi Beta. The sisters are psyched to have you with us. Love in PKE (?) YourPR To the Delta Gamma Sisters, We're psyched and looking forward to an exciting and memorable pledge period! Love, the DG Pledges Hey, Katie! Thanks for carrying our dozen roses and two packages back to the room. Take a picture! Happy bir- thday! ! Love, Steff, W1ta, and Nance Dear Zuk: Happy Birthday! Love, Kat Tri-Pod Congratulations on not having any new peas as of yet. Func- tion next week. Rock 'N Roll Pizza Pub ''Monday Night Football'' Special If you can give us the correct score to Monday night footba II when you call up and order a 6-cut or 8-cut pizza, we'll give you ONE free topping. So, call us any Monday night this term. And, remember: When you order from the Pizza Pub, you are supporting students, not big business. Pizza Pub: 370-6060 SPRINGBREAK '87 Campus Rep. Organize Sailing Charters Ft. Lauderdale to Bahamas Commission & Free Cruise Call Captain Williams 1650 SW 23rd Terrace, Ft. Lauderdale 33312 (305) 583-0202 Anytime m i entl,llttt 'fi QIIenners & mailnrs 1£tb. 1714 UNION S1 AEET ( 518) 374-6647 Specializing m Suede & Leather Cleaning Shirts & Blouses L«nmdered Zippers Replaced . Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome

Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS, Novem(Jer6, 1986 Qlnntnriliens,is SPORT'S Volleyball Ends Season Quietly 1986. Soccer Stats ByTHETEAM The volleyball team ended Ute season on less than a winning note. On Tuesday, the team travelled to Hamilton with only eight players. Union began well, initially taking the lead in the first game. Despite the strong digging of Melanie Masterson and Anne Nolan, Unlon was unable to hold ()ff Hamilton's powerful offense and lost the first game. With the lack of substitutions, fatigue set in and Hamilton went on to win the match three games to zero. On Th u:tsday, the team travelled to Oneonta for a tri- matcll with Oneonta and Russell Sage. Thls time, three starters were absent and ari inexperienced team took the · court. Although both matches were lost, some fine play came from some of the yoWlger players. Sophomore setter Rocky Ghezzi took confident control of the offense, and freshman Nancy Conway had several ex:cellent spikes and digs. The final r()ad trip of the season was Saturday, to the Skidmore Tournament. Union played well the entire day, led by senior co-captain Barbara \Babs\ Brady. They defeated Skidmore in two straight games behind the hitting of Michelle Vuolo and the serving ()f :Ifelen Lee. Against UVM, Unioa eame out strong, winning thee first game, but losing the nexttw:o by close margins. Union :raced Hamilton next, needing ~Ile win to advance in the tourn!lment. But Union had j~t played tw.o tough matches· back t~ baelt and went into this match with no break. Needless· to say. 1Jnion lost, but with strong and gutty play. It was the final d;ay of volleyball for senior Barbara Brady and Assistant Coach Tony DiMastim. They ()ffered superb leadership and examples and Will be ~reatly missed next season. 'ream awards were given out at .the end of the day; the recipients were: Best digger- Anne Hoban; Best attitude- :Michelle Vuolo; and Most Improved player- Helen Lee. The last season o:f the volleyball season was a difficult one for the team. The team was forced to play two away matches and · a tourrtament without st~rting hitter Nancy Schulz wh() was seriously injured in a tragic car accident last Sundar. Nancy is ill the thoughts and prayers of all players and coaches, and we offer the entite Schulz :family our best wishes. 25% OFF Suggested Price on Any Reebok in stock with coupon good untill0·31-86 Anaconda-Kaye Sport,s, Inc. 44G State s.t - $Chenactlily, N;Y. 12305 518·312·20&1 15 Game totals Name Steve Hartman Bob CrandaU Jim Monks, Rich E.ngdahl David Tewksbury Doug Wil-k Dave Hiscox Jeff Barker Howard Fiedler Brian Bakker Dan Pittenger Guy Clavel.oux Dave Cope Mark Nadeau Gls 10 9 4 4 4 3 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 37 . . Asts · Pts 2 22 2 20 2 10 2 lQ 2 TO 3 CJ 3 5 1 3 3 3 0 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 26 Goalies Jon LaDuke AI Trageser Gms Goals Allowed Saves ·ShO Record 11.0 3 2.0 9 Dutchmen Scoreca:rd Footba.ll (8-0)* Soccer ( 13-1-1 )O Field Hockey (8-7) W. Soccer (4-11) w·. Tennis (2-10) Volleyball (13-18) * Sti II in regu.lar season. o 1 n post-season play. 47 8 4 0 .football {8-0) 1. [)ayton :2. Central, Iowa 3. Ithaca 4. MountUnion 5. Sal.isbury 6. Aug~;.~stana 7. Wisconsin, River Falls 8. Montclair St. 9. Buena Vista 9.Susquehanna . 1l.Wagner 12. UN ION 8-0 13. Hope, Mi. 14. Centre College, Ky. 15. Concordia 16. Emory and Henry l7.Denison 18. Coe, Iowa 19. Univ. of Buffalo 20. Juniata 1'3\0·0 0-l-1 Soccer ( 13.-3-1) l.'Ohio, W~sleyan 2. R.I.T. 3. Scranton A. UNCGreensboro . 5. Plymouth, N.H. 6. St . .Johns 7. FREDONIA a. Wheaton 9. Glassboro 10. Christopher Newport 11. UN ION 13-3-1 12. Conn. College 13. Bethany 14. Elizabethtown 15. W.orcester 16. Middlebury 17. Univ. ofRochester 18. Messiah 18. N.C. Wesleyan lB. Depauw Ruggers upset Plattsburgh. Shou~ dn't Union have been given a piayotf St·udent · Pho-nath-on·: · Tuesday, November-11 Wednesday, November 12 Tim.e: 5: 30 - Sandwiches · 6:30- Calling Begins Sign up in Teams of 41 Cash prizes w.ill be awarded to 3 teams who lead in: 1) new donors 2) increased dollars 3) 1otal number of pledges Joi11 up for an evening of food; conversation andfunl The Dutchmen are 8·0. Face Hamilton In Clinton Saturday. c: ro E u u ·~ IQ ,_ . .... i)

/ c: ro E u ;1 u ::> I V> '< ro 1} !.. . ,. >- ..0 0 0 '5. I J I i) I ~C.ONCORDIENSIS, November 6, 1986 Page 15 C!tnntnr~iensi-s SP·O RTS Athlete of the Week NOT IN THE BOX SCORE ByDOUGLLOYD Forthe first time in my era .as the ''Athlete of the · Week\ writer, a playerfroin.the Rugby team has been chosen .. Senior· Steve Delano e~emplified: his greatness last Saturday in a home game against Plattsburgh St. 'File 4-2 ruggers •pllJ.yed the 5- 1 Cardinals to hand them their first defeat of · the season. Despite the loss, Plattsburgh will represent the East in the fo r t h c o.m in g .. U p s t a t e Championships in Buffalo, NY. This Saturday, Steve scored the lone try of the game and was one of the line)s dominant for.ces for the Union i·uggers. · · .Steve at 5'6\ 155lbs. does not bave. the obvious rugby build but he does have th~ speed and toughn~s~ to_ make him a successful wing. Steve is playing in. his third season· for the Putchmen_, (he played Fall '85, Spring '86 and Fall '86) and his second as a player for tbe 'A' team. The team's fourth consecutive win after two narrow defeats came off a line~ out in which the ball was tossed at the last second by co-captain Steve Konlian to the onrushing \Steve Delano who dove with outstretched arms for the four point try. · This brought ·them from 6-3 to 10-3, and thus assured Uhi.on of the victory (the six points came from penalty kicks by Dave Blee and PatDiCierbo respectively). The ~score was evident of the type of game played: very physical and not completely one-sided. • • • Must Beat Hamiltonl Besides the fantastic running by Steve, he also put his body into the defensive mode and made one hit that brought the home crowd to their feet as he lowered the boom on an opponent with five inches and 40 lbs. of an advantage on him. This toughness is also evident in his running style as he does not run away from the larger tacklers, bQt swiftly passes them. This fall, Steve scored six tries for the team-all of which have come within the past four games. Steve is a Civil Engineering major_ from -Burnt Hill, NY. Congratulations once. again go to Steve for giving Union rugby all.he had. to helP,bQostthe team from an 0-2 start to win an amazing four straight. Mark Zimmerman Staubach to Hill. How about the . Knicks coming back from a 25- point defeat against the eventual World Champion Celtics on Christmas. There are , so many rivalries in sports that are decided in the last minute of their games. . . . This weekend, when Umon plays RPI, throw away all the records, all the past games, how many freshmen are on each team an<l everything else and just sit back and watch what should be an intense game. Football Trounces Middlebury The Union-RPI hockey this weekend is a must for all sports fans. During the past .few years these two teams have combined for some of the finest g~es in recent Union College history. Two years ago, when RPI won the National Championship, Union played one of their best games ever. With only seconds remaining in the •game, RPI scored a goal to win by a 3-2 count. For Union to even have given them a battle as tough as that was quite an impressive feat. Last year's game did n,ot go as well for the Dutchmen. RPI defeated them in a fairly sound manner. Yet this year could be a whole different story. RPI is off to a slow start with a o-1-1 record. Their team is filled with inexperience and is alsy·playing with two sophomore goalies who were virtually untested last year. The two teams both have some key players to watch for. RPI is led by Terry Butryn, Ned Hernberg, and Bill Kopecky. Their offense is loaded wiih rookies, including Dennis Poissant, Tony Hejna, and Brian Ferreira. Sophomore Jim Kropp who played on the fourth line last year is also expectP.d to be vastly improved from last year. Coach Addessa is the man who· leads the team. He has been through this before and knows how to win. By BOB KOCH If last week's Dutchman 32.-0 swamping of the Middlebury Panthers could be described in one word, \Defense\ - would unquestionably do the trick. Although Union's defense has been solid all year, Rich Romer summed things up by saying, ''Defensively I consider._ this to be a great game.'' Not only were the critics impressed with the Dutchmen's performance, but also and more importantly, the Dutclunen were pleased with their own performance. Union's dominance inspired the offense- .creating turnovers and other opportunities, like Bob Loparo's blocked punt that quarterback Tim Valachovic took complete advantage of. Union's defense allowed only 111 total offesnive yards and recorded 10 sacks (four by ECAC honor roll player Rich Romer) for 73 yards. As a matter of fact, you could tell the Dutchmen were playing a little differently when in the first quarter, the Dutchmen got on the board via an 8-y~d run by no other' than- Tim Vhlachovic who showed some ·running .. ability against- the Pal)thers. Bob Anderson kicked a 22- yard field goal and the Dutchmen were ahead, 9-0, in the first quarter. Union's next touchdown may have been the most exciting· Dutchman . play all year.· A pitchback to Mark Stachoviack, who came from the tight-end position, artd _ boom, the ex-quarterback hit Jim Lafrance for a 41 yard touchdown strike. At thiS point the Dutchmen were well in charge and the 15-0 lead did nothing but grow. Mter Jim Lafrance received his second touchdown pass of the game Union went in at halftime leading 22.0, and if that was not enough, junior defensive end Craig Aaron recorded a sack in the end zone to give the Dutchmen another two points in the third quarter. Union capped off the scoring with a six-yard touchdown scamper by ·sophomore Steve Hayes. Darrel Shepherd gained 105 yards on 19 attempt$ Saturday afternoon. He averages 85~8 yards a game and 5.1 yards per . carry. Once again, the Dutchmen's pass attack was potent and well balanced. George McAvoy had five catches for 47 yards, Matt Smith recorded four catches for 97 yards, and Jim Lafranc_e got a. touchdown. Lafrance actually got two touchdowns and another 49 yards of. receptions while starting QB Tim Valachovic led the Dutchmen with eight completions for 130 yards. Union's real test is coming up this week. Union travels to ClintQn, New York to play the 5- 2 Continentals from Hamilton. This Hamilton team is the same team that ruinea Union's perfect record in 1984 by beating them, 10-3, in the mud in Clinton. · Hamilton averages 442.6 yards per game led by a strong fullback named Jim Korfonta who bas 1,105 yards on 183 rushes this· seasen, Hamilton cruShed Middlebury, 52-14, but · do not let that fool you to think they ·are invincible •. Last week Hamilton ·.· · suffered an embarrassing loss, t&a less than impressive st. Lawrence team. Thus, Saturday is a must- ·wm for both teams and only one team will emerge with a playoff berth. A Dutchmen loss could rUin their chances for an NCAA playoff bid as competition in the East has ·made Division III football much more- exciting. Hamilton, on the other hand, will probably not get a bid with a win anc:l would like nothing better than to be the Dutchmen's spoiler. More importantly than any other game this season; the Dutchmen need fan support. , Saturday will be a super ball game and it is about time for a good tail-gate up to Hamilton. Coach Bagnoli may have a few tricks up his sleeve for Hamilton this week, so if anyone wants a taste of real good football, I would advice a drive to Clinton especially if conditions are wet and rainy and a muddy field awaits a Dutchmen arrival. • SUPPORT UN10N SPORTS Union itself is coming off a loss to Babson. Their defense Rugby • e - Continued from page 16 Michael came up with a big tackle on a Pioneer rugger that sent the ball in the air. After several Plattsburgh ruggers tried to gain control of the ball, lt came out into Delano's arms who burned by five defensemen • was quite strong yet tbe offense did need some energy. Nevertheless, no matter how strong or weak the two rivals are, they always prodace an exciting game. - for· a try from 30 meters out- puttihg Union up -10-3. -\The opportunity was there, so I ran it in,\ he explained. Because of the difficult angle, Blee missed the conversion. However, ten \' minutes later, the final whistle blew, and Union not only came out with the biggest upset of the year (Plattsburgh, because they now have only one loss are going to the playoffs anyways) but proved by far that they have the best team in their division, and to many_ people have without question, the best team in the state. \It was an amazing way to end the season,\ DiCierbo said. \I definitely feel we're the best team in the state.\ The Union-RPI matchup is a great parallel to many other sports rivalries. For example, the NY Giants-Dallas_ Cowboys rivalry is similar to that of the two Capital District college teams ... Each year the two football teams slug it out. Whether the Giants were the worst team in the NFL op not, the game always came down to either a Joe Danelo field goal or a 45-yard pass play from Konlian looked ahead to the spring season. \The last four games we showed we can win Upstates in the Spring (the states biggest tournament), and not only that, but we can go down south and show those southern boys how to · play rugby. Our goal two years ago was to get to the finals of the Upstates. We end~d ap winning. · On the other side of the ice, look for players Gary Temush, Nelson Said and Todd Rutledge to control the offense. On defense, Appleby, Manley and Joyce will try to contain any RPI threats. Freshman Ron Kinghorn or junior Toby O'Brien will be starting in goal with Terry Rathwell ready to go as well. If everything goes as history dictates, the game should be decided in the final minute or two. So, don't leave for a second and enjoy what should be a great game. Our goal this year is not to win the Upstates but to dominate them. We are the best team in the state.\ The killer B's weren't as successful, however. Union scored first in the B game on a penalty kick by Larry Grob. But in the second half, Platt- sburgh's B's scored a con- troversial try to go ahead, and take the game 4-3. Saturday- Union vs. Hamilton 12:30 Countdown to touchdown 1:00 Pre Game Show 1 :30 Live Game Can the Dutchmen go undefeated for the 2nd straight year? F.lnd out on 89.7 The Dutchmen Sports Network ·No. 9 Cecil Bright waits for the ball and the ensuing touchdown. The 32·0 win w~s Union's 3rd shutout this season. .. >- .0 ~ s:. 0.

·' Page 16 ·CONCORDIENSIS, No.vember 6, 1986 > .0 0 - 0 .s::: 0. ,,Dutchmen Win Big But Can't Rest Yet. See story pg. 19 Rugby Serums Up a November 6, 1986 ••• end up at 13-J .. I Rugby Pl.ows Over Plattsburgh .. Soccer to ~ace Fredonia in N.C.A.A. Tourney By RICH GOLDMAN The men's varsity soccer team finished its regular season last week with two victories. The two victories give this year's team a school record for victories in a season. The Dutchmen finish the regular season with 13 wins at 13-1-1 breaking the old record of 12 wins set in 1983, 1984 and 1985. The Dutchmen can add to this total by winning the upcoming playoff games which began yesterday with Union at Fredonia. Jon LaDuke earned his seventh shutout of the season by making seven saves out of the ten shots St. Lawrence took. Union struggled through this game facing a fired-up St. Lawrence team and a cold, windy daY. They look to play a better game in the playoffs. The Dutchmen received their fourth invitation in four years to the NCAA post-season tournament. Union was ranked second in the New York region where the top four teams in each region make the tournament. The four teams in the New York region were ranked thus: 1. R.I.T. 2. Union 3. SUNY Fredonia 4. U. of Rochester. Although Union is ranked ahead of Fredonia, Union played at Fredonia. The winner of the Union game will play the winner of the R.I.T.-University of Rochester game at the highest remaining seed on Sunday. The first games were played on Wednesday, November 5. Fredonia has beaten the Dutchmen in the last two playoffs here at Union. Union will be looking for some justice when they travel there this year. Hopefully, the soccer team will be seeing you at a home game in the near future. By CHRIS.SHERIDAN · They lost their first game to Albany State,~. They lost their second game to Siena, 12-7. Their team was good enough to win both games, but early in the season, they couldn't put it together. With an 0-2 record at that paint, and their playoff bid down the drain because they had two losses, Union's Men's Rugby team had something to prove . . . to the school and to themselves, and prove they did. Not one team scored a try against the Union ruggers in their last four games. The only scores Union did let up were two three point penalty kicks totalling six points. This four game scored upon total is obliterated by the number of points Union scored total in their last four games-141. The first win • was last Wednesday when Union 6eat Division I Colgate, 2~1. All the scoring was in the first half. It · started with a goal credited to Dave Tewksbury at 14:36 into the game. There was a loose ball in front that bounced in off a Colgate defender after Tewksbury touched it. Colgate 'then scored the first goal scored against Union in six games when Andy Bisselle knocked in a pass from Robert Bacus on a breakaway. The time of the Colgate goal was 24:17 into the game. The second Union goal was again credited to Dave Tewksbury, his fourth of the season. Tewksbury kicked the ball from the right corner past the goalie who came out to get the ball. The ball was close to the goal line and no one was sure if it was going in. However, a Colgate defender trying to clear the ball knocked the ball into the goal. The time of this goal was 33:53 into the game. Skaters Look Physical, Lack Scoring In the second half, although Union dominated, there was no scoring .. Union held Colgate to one shot in the second half and outshot them, 21-3, for the game. This game tied the record for most wins in a season at 12. Colgate's record dropped to 5-9-2. Union set the record for most wins in a season Saturday with a 1-0 victory over St. Lawrence. St. Lawrence ended its season at 5-8-2. The only score of the game was with 1:50 remaining in the half. The goal was scored by Bob Crandall, his ninth of ,!he year, assisted by Guy ctaveloux. Claveloux: kicked a long pass to Crandall who blasted it off the goalie's hand. By MARK ZIMMERMAN Last Saturday night the Union Dutchmen hosted Babson for a preseason hockey game. Although the outcome favored Babson by a 3-1 count, Union was quite impressive on defense, delivering. many crunching blows. Union's of- fense delivered one goal, and' although they did pressure Babson a few times, they did not engineer any striking drives. During the first period Union came out strong with a very physical attack. While penalties plagued both sides, neither team managed to take ad- vantage of these situations. Babson had many shots and chances to score, yet the Union defense repelled each one. A standout performance was turned in by freshman goalie, Ron Kinghorn. Kinghorn rejected every threat that came his way. Finally, with 5 minutes and 27 seconds remaining in the period, Union got a powerplay. Ten seconds later Union was up 1-o on shot by center, Mike Raymond. Needless to say, the crowd became quite vocal. As the period came close to the end, C0mCapt. Dave Appleby delivered a bone--crunching hit that sent the crowd into a frenzy. Union did have one more opportunity to score with 1:17left in the period but failed to do so. The second period did not fair as well for the Dutchmen in the beginning. Just 2:17 into the period, Babson tied the game up with a goal of its own. However, the Union defense learned from its mistake and played tougher than ever. Babson tested goalie Toby O'Brien in close, but each time O'Brien passed the test. Both the team and the crowd suffered a scare midway through the pt;!riod when sophomore Scott Manley went down. Manley layon the ice for a SUP'PORT UN'ION SPORTS minute or two before getting up and skating q££. The crowd and team seemed worried, however, he did prove to everyone that he was truly okay by returning to the game and delivering many powerful hits. Union was outscored in the third period 2-0. Yet they again showed how tough they were. On a play that made the parm tisan crowd become ecstatic, junior Bill Snow bodycheckee the Babson center up and over the boards into the penalty box. Nevertheless, the Babson player did get his revenge as moments later he scored the final goal of the game. Union seemed to tire out in this perod and did not have the energy that they had showed earlier in the game. Although Union lost the game, their defense turned in a standout performance. They killed many penalties and played well. The offense did not really get into the full swing of things during the game .. They could not capitalize on Babson's penalties and only moWited a few substantial attacks. Still, this is only the preseason. The Dutchmen are capable of having an outstanding season and with 10 or 11 freshmen on the team, look for them to be a powerhouse during the next 3 or 4 years. The .team also welcomes aboard two new team managers, Len Sweet and Kevin ·Whitaker. That's right, one hundred forty one. Union's tremendous comeback season culminated in a 10-3 upset victory · over Plattsburgh State, a previously unbeaten tearn 1 regarded as one of the best if not the best teams in the state. ~ · \I don't think we played the best game rugbymWISe as we have an season,\ remarked cOm captain Steve Konlian after the game. 'lJ;3ut our intensity was tlie highest it has bee11 all season.\ Platsburgh scored very early in the game, after forcefully pushing the ball down the field, a drive ending up in a successful penalty kick. At this point early in the game, heavily favored Plattsburgh was up 3·0. However, Union beared down and held Plattsburgh for the rest of the first half which ended with the same s.core. The second half began with incredible intensity on Union's part. For the first five minutes of the half, both teams fought back and forth for possession of the ball. However, the game swung in UnionJs favor after Union wing Steve Delano fired up his team and all of the . onlookers at the game when he picked up a Plattsburgh Pioneer running with the ball, lifted him off of the ground, and slanuned him on his head. From this turning point on, the 1 intensity and the game was all Union's. Soon after this play by Delano, .Dave Blee connected on a penalty kick from a difficult angle from the right sideline to. . ·tie the score at 3-3. \The game was Rlayed on their end, not ours, t Konlian said. ''When we hit the penalty kick to tie it up, everyone realized that we could win. We were beating them on the field and then we started putting points up on the board. People who were dragging gained a new life.\ Union continued to fight with Plattsburgh in what was by far the hardest-hitting game of. the season for both teams. With about 15 minutes left in the second half, fullback Pat DiCierbo hit an unbelievable 40+ metel' penalty kick. \I thought I could reach,\ OiCierbo said. \But I have had some trouble lately hitting them. I felt confident on this one though.\ He had no trouble on this one and Union took the lead 6-3. Still fighting, U~ion's Tom ·Continued on page 15 .

'Sp~t.:..· co\\, & rciai!09tlt r:1f1niversaru Issue! ,o,, I 411 -·· • ' Telephone Rate Disclosure · Evokes ·Student Uproar Hau-ser, Wlnk'ler Attempt To Defend .Co.llegie Actions ~ By DAVID GULLIVER The College's release .of winter term .phone bills in a . Nov .. 51etterhas outr~ged.much • ofthe Union comniunity and has raised allegations of .in• competence, illegal actions and disregard of student concel'[ls · - on. the. · part of the ad- . ministration. Vice President- Hauser's letter repeated those elements and then listed the. rates ac- .cording· to type of housing (see coJP,parison bO~ p. 3). When as:ked how he arrived at those rates, Hauser did not give a specific breakdown according to tbose services, despite the fact that Concordie_nsts .requested a written breakdown 1877 Vice President John R. Hauser solely devised the phone rates Ill u u I]) .0 ~ >- .o· 0 - 0 .r:: c. UniqnlNY Telephone Rate Comparison Bottom p. 3 ()f the rates a day before the Gad.•o B.lasts Col leg- e· irtterview. Hauser said that tll~re is \no purpose to \be h!~~~~e~ ~u~~s~::tsr::. way p 0 I ic i es I Admin is t rat i 0 n Hauser replied that the rates By JAY GR()SSMAN in the letter reflected \our best. and CHARLIESLOTNIK Among student complaints estimates, guesstimates, over a · are paying exorbitant Union ten year period,\ which is the Editor's note: Concor,diensis phone rates (higher than those e:xpfi!:cted time when the central requested this interview with of New York Telephone), PBX comv.uter will .become Professor Gado. to h~a.r an paying for data access lines that obsolete .and serious revisions of . hol!est, unrestramed QPIDJ,on of $o··p'€tcEifil'i'J£-·~tlCi~nts~dO'~not .· .· me·systeM\'Wilrtre\\'ne'(:~~~al.fY ... liiJlon ft:om:.a..persottcwho bas. use, and long :dfstah~e .phone lie contiti'ue.d, ~aying \We did • . been a. part of the college for 25 _ bills that are nearly six weeks ·not have 'to know specifically years. late. In .interviews with Con• the cost of each feature . . . CS: What Js the role of Con- cordiensls, Mr .. John Hauser, h:avirtg the figures wouldn't cordiensis on this campus? vi~e president for finance and serve the purpose anyway.\ Does It accompUsh what a administration, and. Ms. Diane lbwever, he outlined· the college newspaper should? Winkler; telecommQnications process by which he determined FG: I think I addressed those manager, attempt ·to address the rates as follows: questions a while back. As I these charges. 'cFirst, we tried to identify recall, my answer loosed a Students were initially in- each Significant element of cost . storm of irrelevant, impertinent formed of the specifics of and to estimate cost over the screeching. It certainly wasn't Union's system in an August 19 next ten years. Some elements a pleasant experience ior me. letter, which cited the following of the cost are known and others Very briefly, this time, I services as the elements of the Continued on page 3 would say that Concordiensis \pr~determined fixed cost'' of . the \non-optional telecom- munications service package.\ 1. Touchtone telephone· set installed in each dorm room. 2. Unlimited campus calls with 4-digit dialing. .S. Unlimited l(Jcal area calls. 4 •. CuStom calling . s~rvic~: Call-Waiting~ Speed-Dia]jilg, 3- Way and 7·Way Call Con- ferencing. · 5. No installation or initial connection charges for service. 6. Direct data access capability to college computer network. Vice President Hauser believes that there is \no purpose to be served\ by publishing his reasoning on setting phone rates. How do you feel~ Would you like to find out just what composes these rates? Do you believe that the college administration handled this matter impmperly? · Sign the · petition . protesting. tQe telephone rates during lunch today at West and Old Chapel dining halls or tomorrow . in your dorms. If you care, show it! Ngcobo Lecture Denounces s. African Passive Reforms :By ELIZABETH WRIGHT On Friday, November 7, 1986, Sandile Iigcobo, a lawyer from South Africa, visited Union and spoke tD students and faculty offering his opinion on the .contemporary situation in South Africa. Sandile Ngcobo spoke lucidly on the scene in South Africa. He stated that President Botha \declared South Africa was moving away from apartheid.\ He alsO pOinted out that he was the first president of South Africa to ''publicly condemn apartheid.\ President Botha's a11nouncement immediately preceded-the repeal of the influx colltrol law'S. These laws con· tl\olled the movement of blacks witbin South Africa. The black population was very skeptical of the effect of the repeal because repeals had occurred twice in tile past, amd both times the government followed with more repressive measures against tile blacks. in specified areas called homelands. Ngcobo said that three million have already undergone forced relocation and a million more face the same hardships. The South African govern- ment rationalizes that since the blacks are citizens of their homelands, .they are therefore not eligible for South African · citizenship and consequently do not have the right to vote. They are legally considered as foreigners. in their own country. Ngcobo called this a .process of \denationaliZ{ltion. \· With this policy, the white goverrunent is able to place restrictions on blacks. For example, blacks need per- mission to leave their homel. and.'i. Also, anyone foun .. d assisting blacks can be charged with a criminal offense. has a most important role to play. For all-its shortcomings, some of which are inherent in its manner of operation, it isthe only forum in which all con- stituencies on this campus · -meet~--It· bas always-beeuthe prfinary means through which students can learn what is going on and can confront the ad- - ministration. But it also serves an important role for the faculty who read it-especially during the past few years, when faculty meetings have become an ash of their former existence. Even if faculty don't participate in the paper,. wbat you print can focus their attention on an issue. JG: Would you say that the 2.3 million dollar budget surplus is such an Issue? What should the College do with that big slice of extra pte? FG: That surplus isn't really a profit. The fact that the College, year in and year out, winds up with these . huge sur- pluses implies that the budget- · makers aren't expert at their job. The surpluses are either, incredibly, a seriesofthe same, repeated miscalculations or else set ups, ploys to make the administration look efficient- which, God knows, it isn't . Theoretically, two groups have arguable claims on that budget. One, obviously is the students. The surplus shouts out Continued on page 2 November 13, 1986 d . . oncor Iensts Celebrates 109 Years Oldest Newspaper In the Area By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Concordiensis holds the distinction of being the oldest paper in Schenectady, out a dating both the \Gazette\, which was founded in 1894, and the Union-Star, which was first published in 1911. The first edition of Concordiensis was originally printed in November, 1877 and has published for 109 consecutive years since then. Concordfensls began as a monthlyliterary magazine. In a letter to Concordiensfs, Conde Hamlin, who was an editor for the paper in 1882, described the early paper. \It certainly was a pallid creature. Incubators· and vitamins had yet to be discovered and it received scant nourishment from contributors either editorially or financially, It iS oniy1airto state that the · field was very restricted, the student bo~y was small and the meager advertising was in the nature of a compliment. The budget was frequently un- balanced and deficits were no Tarity. The second year I was on the Board, I took over the business management. The magazine was printed in a little job plant.on the second floor of a building on State Street next to the railroad tracks. The end of that year, luckily, found· the slate clean for the next board. We left a rather anemic child to our successors who have done better, increasingly better by their charge . . . \ Over the past 109 years Concordiensis has been presented to the Campus in various forms. In 1882 it was a monthly literary magazine. Under the Editorship of Allen Tarford, in 1886, it became a weekly edition. Then, in 1916 Concordfensis evolved from the format of a magazine to a four column newspaper which was published three times a week. During WWII, the newspapt•r was reduced to a weekly paper Continued on page 3 E ro .r:: c: .... :> co ~ >- .0 0 +- 0 J: 0. . The structure of South Mlican society-due to apar- tlleid-segr~egates blacks from whites in an attempt to have South .Africa without blacks, acc<ll\dingto Ngcobo. In order to keep blacks away from Whites, many blacks have been forced by the government to relocate Ngcobo explained the housing situation in South Africa. He stated that the government has deliberately refrained from building housing . in the urban areas for blacks. Housing, however, was bein'g. built in the homelands. Blacks are forced to build their own houses-this is illegal in South Africa-due to the fact that three million people do not have housing. 1be government passed the Ani- Continued on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The Nott Memorial received a dusting of snow as winter s;3iled in Tuesday .

Page2 NEWS Professor of English Frank Gado CDntinued from page 1 that they-or their parents- have been overcharged. Even if we say that it is the result of overenrollment in the freslunan class, the portion of tuition it ~pr.esents can be seen as an overcharge since every ad- ditional student drawing on fixed \goods\ attenuates in some degree the value of those goods. The other ·group of legitimate claimants includes all those---from faculty to the cleaning crew-whose workload is increased by the presence of the additional students. But, of course, neither distribution is practicallle. The right thing to do is to use that money in ways that would immediately increase the value of being at Union. For example, it seems obscene that, as we pile up surpluses, we refuse to hire sufficient staff to cover all the Ft·eshman Preceptorial classes. I don't like the Precept scheme we have, but as matters are presently disposed, it is the only .course designated to teach composition to freshman. To impose the course as a requirement because it is a. necessary part of every Union student's education and then, without · any screening mechanism, to excuse a large cb.lUlk of the freshman class from participation is illogical, inequitable, and hypocritical. Like much else . that happens around here, I suppose. CS; The new General Education curricular proposals include the continuance of the Preceptorial. What is your reaction to the rest of the plan? FG: I've just come from a faculty meeting at which the proposal was discussed. No one spoke with fervor for the scheme. Again and again, I heard that this was the best we could do. It's all very depressing. Even with grade inflation, no intelligent student listening to that bleating could award this defeatist committee more than a C-. My grade for tllem is a resounding F. It was like hearing a meeting of automobile designers arguing apologetically for the merits of tan fins by claiming that at least there was one on each side of the car. Or like listening in on a group of astronomers pleading for the Ptolemaic model because their training did not allow them to think in Copernican terms. But the same faculty that deprecates its students for being unimaginative and mindlessly CONCORDIENSIS, November 13, ]986 conservative will vote for it. And tben at least a dozen new ,faculty will be fed into the · tenure system~their ap· pointnnents based upon a ludicrous model of general · education. And a decade from now,_ there will be a faculty meeting in which it will be said' that any genuine innovation is impossible because of the nature and composition of the faculty. It's a goofy way to run an institution. CS: Will Gel-Time ilnpro:ve the quality of education here? FG: There's nothing revolutionary about so-called Gel·Time~ When your father and l went to college, almost all courses met on either a · Mon- day:, Wednesday, Friday:, or a Tuesday, Tht.trsday, Saturday cycle. And that's the way it was at Union ·until the trimester calendar was installed. I might also point out that 5-Gths of the courses I teach now meet on alternate days. The reason I strongly sup- ported Gel-Time is that Union had become a 3% day school, with half the student body sloshed in mid week. That's not a healthy atmosphere for academic -pursuits. But im- provement of the quality of Union's education and stimulation of genuinely in- tellectual currents will require much more than Gel-Time. It will require a different $pirit among faculty and the kind of administrative leadership we've not had for a long, long, long time. JG: Is the presence of · engineering part of the problem? Is the administration giving the engineering . departments preferential treatment? . FG: I'll soon have been at Union for a quarter century. All through that period, rve heard some people in the so-called liberal arts discipline whine about engineering. That's dishonest, a cheap shot. The simple fact is that no college is hurt by the strength of any of its parts. The engineering departments contain a disproportionate share of our more dedicated faculty, and over the years, the· program has produced some of our most loyal-and suc- cessful-alumni. That is a strong base to build upon. Far from .giving engineering undue favors, the administration seems not to have paid suf- ficient attention to needs and changes in these areas. If one of the engineering departments should lose its accreditation, it would be a severe bl()W to Union's prestige. JG: How would you assess President Morris's per- formance to date? FG: When Morris arrived, Union was in shock. It seems to me that he had to choose bet- ween two courses. The one I would have advocated-indeed, did advocate when I spoke with him-would have taken ad- vantage of thJ! College;s stunned condition to lead all the .factions boldly and energetically toward genuine excellence he could have defined for us. I told him he \could break the mold.\ But . he clearly was not prepared to do that. Bonner, he .said, had tried to break the mold, and look where that had got him. Morris is not one to sound a trumpet and lead a charge. into .itself, and challenge~ to its • code of lukewarm conformity are regarded as impertinent and subversive. One ·of my colleaglles in Division III expressed it very well tome last week. \Frank ·he said, \you haven't caught on ' to the game here. You think Union should be buoyed up. and · bounced aroWld by intenectual ferment, blltthe.real pur:pose of - . VoL. I. Sc!IENECTI.DY, N. Y~ Nov:ENIIEII. 18n•. No. r. LITERARY. 'the army when no11e but roy-tty eould' llope lor -----------~--~· promotioll, he ad .. anced slowly &t .fint ; bl!t .. 1t. ltEVERY, •·-,_,.m GouiOlll~•-rbll ' Do oil our uplm\\'• ...S ••r •01bu, Do 1111 ,.._ IGbdo, w!o,pd•llloq\!1, ~.a ........ ltU1114- ..... , WheD 1o )'OQ ........... ·~OfOtl~ wood, We Ulk .alo.e etl calm~y •••· Do per~ .... dteer Ud:.,ullC-~ &1 oolltll4o'• iuplri ... lltoupco M~iloedoc,•Mioscp~7 WheA JOQd(lr Mlll!l,f na Mt~ Ire To·all clio dro...,.,. ol doud, Does eolor\a'ln~uenec lrmte ao tHCll Do ........ tJie·la· .. t . Do our resoJWI:I ~ ~~ ~. D<J monl ~t\rks brawl,. won, Does pujet>ce Jooc ud euritf E•en ao 11011-.oo....,t, A!-· pll1olaH after equality of rights wu restored, his ·rise .~·rapid. We see. him ill Napoleon's battles alOlll: tile R.bine; at Worms a!ld Frankfort ; at Stuttgani and Zurich: J\;gain, he is :tdinister. , tGio Switzerland, md shortly aftenra~ & Mar- . sbal of France. · With courage ·Ney combined coolneu. and : sound judgment. ln the heat of battle he stood in marble calmness, observinr every 1110Vement and never erring In his commands. These qualities won ·his.soldiers' beans. He lecJ men where no other general could. Time Uld q;ain. , did Napoleon .place in Ney's h&nds thefate of• . tl!e Empire. Of the numenius titles confernd upon .tbis bero,tqe worthiest.wauliatof\ Bnv- · est of the Brave\; to win.tJiis name f\nm Mu- · · !at, Macdo!Wd and Lannes wu grea~ ~iy. Bo pt>loe ! -·• !iroer lifo·.._ ,.u, Upoo clio world w!dtoottfullwl: E&Q•loope,eal:b fur.~- UDOuclt~ Ea.cb beuteoes Kae, entbll~l draa. EAch pllrpotoe.lonocd,cacb- wdl·kepr, Has ltfelll1h •• lut ..., tlooatud ,.ara, Has powu1o oloape e'ft acluDutL · A p1ge froin the Marshal~s life will iU~Utnce: his character : They ...U•IIte .,..., ... rates doc -sci, The, oil - rat, ...., 011~ roool. MARSHAL NEV. Mciscow was taken. The bu~ towers' were ftarinr·on the nigbt; houses were falling : . Willis were\ crashing down. With forty ·thou-: · sand men Ncy was detailed to cover tbc: retreat.· The soldiers suffered terribly. At every step someone ·succumbM to the weary march and' pinching cold. Those behiDd stumbl<d O\U ' ·the bodies of th05e who had ~eded. M...iy,. ·u. des~r, threw away'their armsand lay down' to die. Clouds of croaking ravens l!overed near. The wolves. howled amid the snow. The JA,MES COSLETT Slll'I'H, JR. winter wind whistled through the cold pines. MICHAEL NEY was a soldier by inheritance. The driving snow cut the Yl!f)' ftesh. At night His father· served in the Seven Years' war, and the roldiers lay do1vn '!bout their fires, and the. t bis (nth<r's knee he listened to the tales of morning found circles of dead men in their · valorous deeds that thrilled his \\\I and fed. places. Ney's forty thousand men beame fif. is inherent longing to be a «>ldier. teen hundred. Still he struggled on, himself Noy could bout no lofty lineage. Entering gnawed by pangs of hunger, his heart bleedinl:. . . . - Thi5 is a reproduction of the f.r'ont page of the first issue. Typica 1 of· the journalism of the day was the section titled \Literary was most prorhinent among' the departments of the paper until athletics took precedence over a II other matters. Temperamentally, he's not an Octavius but, at his best, rather like Claudius. The course he chose-or that his instinct chose' for him-was to stand back, pull a few strings from a distance, and let ·Union's reservoir of strength flow back into the institution. His principal action was to ease an incom~tent Dean of Faculty's head mto a noose so that, when she had gotten high enough, she would drop into the Wlsuspecting lap of Hollins College. All in all, it was a rather successful strategy-for a few years, at least. He seems to have raised the endowment by large amounts and el!gendered an air of good feeling. But we must now ask ourselves what this money was raised for. What can it accomplish? And on that score, Morris has flll'nished no answers, no direction, no vision. In his opening address to the facqlty this fall, he asked us to be willing to take risks. But he will take no risks, and . he demonstrates no confidence in his ability to ins~ire. Ami: meanwhile, Union IS sinking this place is to let everyone· bathe in a comforting con- viviality.\ I told him I had caught on a long time ago but that I kept thrashing to remind myself that I hadn't drowned. JG: You think, then, that Union needs a change · in leadership. FG: Yes, I do. Perhaps it's HOT C\\OC.OLATE.. OR CAPPUCCINO not all .th~t important that Morri~ step · quickly into an honorable retirement. A president can play a role analogotl$ to that of a reig(Ling, , non~ruling monarch, but if is essential, tnen, that his prbne minister pursue a vigorous, Wise policy. Morris's greatest fault, as I see it--and a good many others as weU-is that he has retained as vice presideQt an expensive .bungler who confuses arrogance for leadership, inaction for judiciousness, bureaucratic pettiness for .execut•·ve shrewdness. Look at how he IJlessed up the computer deal, and the fumbling way he handled the teaching load reduction, and the. tangle he made of the CUE attempt reform the curriculum--a disaster which has led· to the present pastiche,· -And that's just for starters. I don't know of lit. single faculty member who will.argue that Union is well served by his continuance in office. 1f he were run'nirig. a shop, he would have gone broke a long time ago. What has he to recommend him? That he takes the flack that might otherwise hit the president? CS: Are you sure you want us to print that? FG: Let it go. The actions of the administration in the past few years leave me with no good reason to be prudent, and the faculty meeting I've just at· tended fills me with a sense of despair. Perhaps you should pay close attention to what happens after this issue of the paper appears. I wouldn't be at all surprised if the administration were to use my remarks in this interview as an excuse to cancel a· panel dlscussion ·about ·evaluation schedilled for January. Btit they've tried to pressure me off the panel for several weeks, and tO<:lay I've learned that they've asked the chairman of the faculty to call off the meeting. · For all that this administration and this faculty chatter about the cherished values of democratic discourse and free debate of the issues, the model our bureaucrats really hold dear is that of the soviet. \A CI1ANGEABLE. DRINK.fOR ACHANG[A\3LE SEMON' 1 BEH&- ICt Cl2rAM .SHOP & .SODA fOUNTAIN Albany Crossga.tas MaJJ • 869-9512 Colonie Centei' .. Wolf Rd • 469-1670 579 New Scotlil.nd Ave. • 482·1714 250 La.rk St. • 463-7182 Saratoga 34 Phila St. • 584-3740 Schenectady 1705 Upper Union St. • 346-<:>251 ........... \.\\' ..... be ~wable at '' I \ : ) . ! i J. ! )'I i

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Novemb(!r 13, ]986 NEWS Professor of Eng I ish Frank Gado Continued from page 1 that they-or their parents- have been overcharged. Even if we say that it is the result of overenrollment in the freshman class, the portion of tuition it represents can be seen as an overcharge since every ad- ditional student drawing on fixed \goods\ attenuates in some degree the value of those goods. The other group of legitimate claimants includes all thos~from faculty to the cleaning crew-whose workload is increased by the presence of the additional students. But, of course, neither distribution is practicable. conservative will vote for it. And then at least a dozen new faculty wiH be fed into the tenure system-their ap- pointments based upon a ludicrous model o.f general education. And a decade from now, there will be a faculty meeting in which it will be said that any genuine innovation is impossible because ()£ the nature and composition of the faculty. It's a goofy way to run an institution. CS: Will Gel-Time improve the quality of education here? FG: There's nothing revolutionary about so-called Gel-Time. When your father and I went to college, almost all courses met on either a Mon- day, Wednesday, Friday, or a Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday cycle. And tllat's the way it was at Union until the trimester calendar was installed. I might also point out that 5-6ths of the courses I teach now meet on alternate days. The reason I strongly sup- ported Gel-Time is that Union had become a 3 1 /z day school, with half the student body sloshed in mid week. That's not a healthy atmosphere for academic pursuits. But im- provement of the quality of Union's education and stimulation of genuinely in- tellectual currents will require much more than Gel-Time. It will require a different spirit among faculty and the kind of administrative leadership we've not had for a long, long, lonJ~: time. vantage of the College's stunned condition to lead all the facti()nS boldly and energeticaUy toward genuine excellence he C()Uld have defined for us. 1 told. him he \could break the mold.'' But he clearly was not prepare!l to da that. Bonner, he said, had tried to break the mold, and look where that had got him. Morris is not ane to soUI!d a trwnpet and lead a chal\ge. VoL. I. LITERARY. A REVERY. Is l!lliUitor .aU? Goof; SCt~~l for aJulititt:, Do all our upiraUcxu and our ~o.bla. Do all U.... aabtlc, wlop! llloGPt• Lcsve c.- Nblll4 lbem ....., 1 Whcu lo yon haHful, od!H\'CCI .ooci 1 W c .,.lk aloae anJ calmlt\ ma.lt). Do perfu..,.. cheer ud m'us1c m~ But eollttade's iupiri!af tboutbll More 8oedll&', u:Mietl pJOo'llrU 7 Wbca yooder Mttllq nn .et' fiffl To all tha drtipcry cr cloud. Don color's iniluena: lt~a.....e ll-0 to-mb On ••· u oa lbe lcarcs l Do our rao\YeS and laoaest trials. 04 mon1 ~·ries bn.nly woa., Doea pawmoe loq: and c!ud11 Ex.ert no iath.t.anee 10 ~4 A&IQO(iGQS pbysk:al? 'Be praise t m.&Q 1 J loner ·Ufe doetull, Upoa lbo W'l>rid wi-tfullwoU.· Eacb hope. each fear, ear.b secnt ~ Each bcuteo.s J.COtte, enthud:aJts d..., Each pu~ formed.acb ¥O'YI well ·~ Hz.s strcactb to lui: lea tMu-oo JU.S&, Has power to sbapc e'eo a.cluDuL Tbey mU:e tbo ICW\, DUD rules tM worhl, Tbey all .,.. rc.ol, !boy oot,. roal. MARSHAL NEY. First JuNior Priu Oruiote . into itself, and challenges to its code of lukewarm conformity are regarded as impertinent and subversive. One of my colleagues in Division III expressed it very well to me last week. \Frank he said, \you haven't caught on to the game here. You think · Union should be buoyed up and bounced aroWld by intellectual ferment, but the real purpose of No. r. not all that important that Morris step quickly int() an honorable retirement. A president can play a ro'le analogous to that of a rei~ning, . nan-ruling monarch, but it is . essential, then, that his prime minister pursue a vigorous, wise policy. Morris's greatest fault, as I see it-and a ~ood many others as well-is tllat he has retained as vice president an expensive bungler who confuses arrogance for leadersbi:p, inaction for judiciousness, bureauC!ratic pettiness for executive shrewdness. Look at how he messed up the compute!.\ deal, and the fumbling way he handled the teaching load reduction, and the tangle he made of the CUE attempt reform the curricutum-a disaster which has led tD the present pastiche. And that's just for starters. I don't kmw of a single faculty member wha will argue that Union is well served by his continuance in office. If he were runnirig a shop, he would have gone broke a long time ago. What has he to recommend him? That he takes the flack that might otherwise hit the president? CS: Are you sure you want us to print tb.at? FG: Let it go. The actions of the administration in the past few years leave me with nG good reason to be prudent, and the faculty meeting I've just at- tended fills me with a sense of despair. The right thing to do is to use that money in ways that would immediately increase the value of being at Union. For example, it seems obscene that, as we pile up surpluses, we refuse to hire sufficient staff to cover all the Freshman Preceptorial classes. I don't like the Precept scheme we have, but as matters are presently disposed, it is the only .course designated to teach composition to freshman. To impose the course as a requirement because it is a necessary part of every Union student's education and then, without any screening mechanism, to excuse a large chunk of the freshman class from participation is illogical, inequitable, and hypocritical. Like much else that happens around here, I suppose. JG: Is the preseoce of engineering part of the problem? Is the administration giving the engineering departments preferential treatment? FG: I'll soon have been at Union for a quarter century. All through that period, I've heard some people in the so-called liberal arts discipline whine about engineering. That's dishonest, a cheap shot. The simple fact is that no college is hurt by the strength of any of its parts. This is a reproduction oft he front page of the first issue. Typical of the journalism of the day was the section titled \Literary which was most prominent among the departments of the paper until athletics took precedence over all other matters. Perhaps you should pa:Y close attention to what happens after this issue ()f the paper ap!)ears. I wouldn't be at all surprised if the administration were to use my remarks in this interview as an excuse to cancel a panel discussion about evaluation scheduled for January. But they've tried to pressure me off the panel for several weeks, and today I've learned that they've asked the chairman ()f the faculty to call off the meeting .. For all that this administration and this faculty chatter about the cherished values of democratic discourse and free debate of the issues, the model our bureaucrats really hold dear is that of the soviet. CS: The new General Education curricular proposals include the continuance of the Preceptorial. What is your reaction to the rest of the plan? FG: I've just come from a faculty meeting at which the proposal was discussed. N c one spoke with fervor for the scheme. Again and again, I heard that this was the best we could do. It's all very depressing. Even with grade inflation, no intelligent student listening to that bleating could award this defeatist committee more than a C-. My grade for them is a resounding F. It was like hearing a meeting of automobile designers arguing apologetically for the merits of tail fins by claiming that at least there was one on each side of the car. Or like listening in on a group of astronomers pleading for the Ptolemaic model because their training did not allow them to think in Copernican terms. But the same faculty that deprecates its students for being unimaginative and mindlessly The engineering departments contain a disproportionate share of our more dedicated faculty, and over the years, the program has produced some of our most loyal-and suc- cessful-alumni. That is a strong base to build upon. Far from giving engineering undue favors, the administration seems not to have paid suf- ficient attention to needs and changes in these areas. If one of the engineering departments should lose its accreditation, it would be a severe blow to Union's prestige. JG: How would you assess President Morris's per- formance to date? FG: When Morris arrived, Union was in shock. It seems to me that he had to choose bet- ween two courses. The one I would have advocated-indeed, did advocate when I spoke with him-would have taken ad- This Week's Events.· Temperamentally, he's nl)t an Octavius but, at his best, rather like Claudius. The course he chose-or that his instinct chose for him-was to stand back, pull a few strings from a distance, and let Union's reserv<Ji.r of strength flow back into the institution. His principal action was to ease an incDm:petent Dean of Faculty's head 01to a noose so that, when she had gotten high enough, she W()uld drop into the unsuspecting lap of Hollins College. All in all, it was a rather successful strategy-for a few years, at least. He seems to have raised the endowment by large amounts and engen<lered an air of good feeling. Bu.t we must now ask ourselves what this money was raised for. What can it accomplish? And on that score, Morris has furnished no answers, no direction, no vision. In his opening address tD the facqlty this fall, he asked us to be willing to take risks. But he will take no risks, and . he demonstrates no confidence in his ability to inspire. And. meanwhile, Union is sinking . Thursday, November 13 · 3:45 p.m.-'Bailey Hall, Room 312. IAM Colloquium sponsors Ray Sweeney. \Reimbursement and Health Care Finance Issues.'' · . 4:3Q..6:00p.m.-HHLL--Meditathm Study Group. 9:00 p.m.-1: 00 a.m.-Old Chapel Dining Room. Cabaret. Friday, November 14 · 5:00 p.m.-Caree~ Developm~nJ Center. New York recruitin~ day deadline. 5: OCMl:OO p .• m.-Old Chapel Dtnmg Ruom. student-Faculty dinner theatre. 7, 9,11 p·.m.-s3016-Movie: BACK TO THE FUTURE. 7: 30-ll: 30 p.m.-science & Engineering, RoomN222. Gaming Association. 9:00 p.m.-:~:00 a.m.-HHLL. 21 Chtb. · . . Saturday,November lt) 5:00-9:00 p.m.~HHDR. Candlelight Dinners. 7:00-9:00 p.m.-Old Chapel, Meeting Rms. A,B,C. Puerto Rican Discovery Day. 7, 9, 11 p,m.-8S016~Movie: BACK TO THE FUTURE. 9:00 p.m.~2.:00 a.m.-HHLL. 21 Club. Sunday, Nl}velll~tr 16 · 7, 9, l1 p.rn.-5S016-Movie: BACK TO THE FUTU~. . . . 9:30-11:30 p.m . .....,..Old Chapel, Meeting Room A. Student Forum meeting. . this place is to let everyone bathe in a comforting con- viviality.\ I told him I had caught on a long time ago but that i kept thrashing to remind myself that I hadn't drowned. JG: You think, then, that Union needs a change in leadership. FG: Yes, I do. Perhaps it's :oar ·~ :oar CIIOCQLUB CA1'PUCCIIO 5HAVED CHOCOLATE WHIPPE.D· CREAM A SCOOP OF YOUR FLAVOR ICE CREAM Hor CHOCOLAIE. OR CAPPUCCINO \A CHANGEABLE. DRINY-. FOR A CHANGEABLE 5E.A.SON .. 1 BEHI'aEI ICE CJ2[..4\M .SHOP & .SODA f0UN1AIN .Albany Saratoga Crossgates Mall • 869-9612 34 Phila St. • 584-3740 Colonie Center, Wolf Rd. 11 469·1670 .. _ ... 8 ......... - ....... 579 .New Scotland Ave. • 482·1714 ~· OM>,...,..~ 250 Lark St. • 463·7182 1706 Upper Union St. • 346-0251 }X)th Products m~y not be b.Vail-able at bllloca.boru,

. ' ',; . ' i ,, CONCORDIENSJS, November 13, 1986 Page3 Student Complaints on Phone System Aboun,d; No Students Were On Planning Committee Continued from page 1 Will change-we kno'W the cost of the system and installation., but th~ maintenance; contract, charges from AT&T for li:Ileuse,. and cost of living will change.· Some of the estimates are ac- curate and some may not be, · and will need future J?evision. \We then attell\pted to allocate costs between the faculty and admmi.straticn and students.\ Hauser emphasiZed that • students are ''not being asked to bear the ad .. Ir.\inistration's and fac~Ity's cost.\ He continued, \We went through every element and to · ·our best ability made 1b.e .split (betw~en students and otbers). \Once we had· what looked like costs to students, we decided what part was line c9st~each line cost the same amount to install in each room and is one figure. The other part is 'student volume'~the number_ of students .per line. A suite ! of four people) will mak~ more calls than a 'single room .. \ fie . said ·e~rll~r. tb.at s~gle ro.o~s\ :faced a he.a.vy bill because a· private p'bone is a \luxury to singles.\ Hauser aclded, \A_ st1;1p you have to take is to make a comparison to rates in the outside world. We'd be derelict in o.ur duties if .ve didn't compare. We (Union~s system) offer more, like data ac- cessibility at a very competitive cost.\ When asked if Unic:~n's rates were raised from cost·c()vering level to a level to matcb. those of the outside world, Hauser responded that we \did not increase our rates to .match those of AT&T. We are not trying to make mo11ey from stud,ents, we_ are trying to recover cost~.\ He ·concluded his statement on ratEs by saying, ''This letter is u:nder my signature because the l\ates are the result of my cal()lllations\ and if anyone believes there is something wrong with the figures, \I am respol'lsible and pe()ple should come to me.\ The data access featlll'e of the system is one of its primary features; howevel', most estimates indicate that :only loo- 200 students at most a:re using Mr. Walter Cook of the Office of Computer Services · (OCS) indicated that the system does not reqUire their office to· turn on a switch; use of the system only requires students to purm chase a computer account and then plug into the wall, since the lines are active. There is therefore no way to directly charge data line users except to survey holders of computer accounts and then ascertain Which ones are on line. That would necessitate a check of dorm rooms, which Cook said is beyond the jurisdiction of his office. · \I question whether the inclusion of students would ·have resulted in a different system or different costs.\ - Hauser The committee that chose the NYNEX system for Union conslsted 'of liau~er, Winkler, Wayne Holt of OCS, Jack Hill of C8Illpus operations, Dean · of Residence Life David Wood, and a consultant from the ELRA .group of ·N.Y.C. There were no students on this com· mittee and when asked about that, Hauser replied, \The job of getting it done was technical and time consuming· . . . and much of it was done while students were not here . . . I question whether the inclusion of Students would have resulted in a different system or dif- ferent costs.'' However, students were present on campus in February 1985 when the )3uildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Trustees ·approved tlw 'final plan. \The Student Forum feels that these rates are un- justified and believes the · college acted illegally.\ - . Junior student Trustee Mark Webster. it. One question students .ask is The administration ap-: why does· each student have to parently has one view on which pay for a servic~ only used by a it holds firm .. Hauser, Winkler, few. Hauser respond 'Ed that if and Ms. Mary Coates of OCS only users paid for tlle service, stated that students should •at would make the c()stt()them remember that they are not ; .eJi}J:b)tii!}t ..• ~ \Y~ •. ~t .. tq ... en- payipg Siq!P.lY for phone service. co11rage; not discourag.e,. (l&:e.\ but· ~or a data access line as When asked if~1ffetE! ·was> · ·we11>Hauser added that \at a anothei;' way to:=establiflli:1:Jifi .. ;:~&t ~c.omparable to phone data system, such as. a fnnfteci . . serVice, .. students are getting number of lines or a C<>rnputer much more and the· system is acc~ss switchboard, Hauser therefore a 'good buy'.\ replied· that the committee that Although Hauser would not chose the system felt that this discuss the individual cost of the choice was ''the only way to do data lines, the entire system ·it.\ cost $2,250,000. Union's. Phone Rates Compared with New York Telephone Rates: NYT, Dorm Centrex Line Charge 22.83 lax· Federal (3%) State/Local (10%.) $2.9.7 Annual Pro· Rated Installation TOTAL ANt-JUAL: \OPTIONAL: Call Waiting 3-Way Confer. Speed Dia~ling Phone Rental SINGLE DOUBLE TRIPLE SUITE UNION(JJer per.) $252/yr. $156/yr. $120/ y.r. $102/yr. $25.80 monthly $289.00 (for9 mos.) $57.00 $289.00*** $4.78) $1 $3.97 . . 2 · 72 $3.97 . per month $4.00 per month r.aYT (per per.) $289/yr. $144.50/yr. $96.35/yr. $72.'25/yr. DIFFERENCE · $37 .00/y r. +$11.50/yr. +$23.65/yr. +$29.75/yr. Students are also concerned · over the \custom calling\ features, which are used rarely and most say they would not choose if the choice had been theirs. These services, if or- dered from :NYT; would cost $12.72monthly, but according to Hauser, these features are part of the system Rackage anQ. added: \very little · to the cost of the system, an amount that would be negligible in terms of its effect on student phone rates. The Student Forum has consulted·a la-wyer on the issue of the legality of the system. The lawyer, who chqoses to remain aponym.ous, stated that it was illegal for the College to provide a mandatory service without .providing the financial cost to students~ Hau,ser replied that he did not believe it was an illegal action, and \when we gave the service we didn't · charge students for it.\ Students are not paying for fall term usage; this bill is for winter term. The Student Forum, ac- . cording to J.unior Student Trustee Mark Webster, feels that these rates are unjustified and believes the college acted illegally. The administration, Webster said, deceived students by not stating fees in the beginning. The Forum has establiShed a committee to investigate the rnatter and Webster said that he and Julie Mountain, senior student· trustee, will bring the matter before the Board of Trustees at their January meeting. Diane Winkler answered the questions concerning the long- di~ance billing. The College has had to install a billing system for the · long-di$tance service consisting of a software package and an interface with the current billing syst~m. The Teleconununications Office did not want to send out bills without testing the brand new package, which also contained modifications · from OCS. Winkler said that they wanted . to test it on data from the in- stalled phone system, which was not completed until August, and wanted actual long- distance data, which required September's phone calls. The first test turned up some \bugs but, according to Winkler, last week's test was \\perfeot.\ Students will receive both Sept. and Oct. phone bills before they leave for vacation and these· bills will be separate from the normal student bill- only students, not parents, will receive a copy, 'and it will be payable to the Cashier's Office on campus. Students not paying within three months will have their phone bill transferred to their normal student bill. Concordiensis Continued from page 1 Concordiensis has now served the college community con• sistently for over a century. The purpose of the paper is to in- form the members .of the college of the events that affect their lives~ In accomplisbing this goal the paper also provides an opportWlity to participate in a vital campus activity while perpetuating and cons~antly improving. one of the oldest papers in the area. .:+ ~:- . Voticky Pockets Republican Vote; Loses to Incumbent By CHRISTINE HONG Last week, along -With the influx of campaign results from this November's elections, came the outcome of a state assembly race in · the 57th District of New York. Republican Joseph Voyticky '89, a Union sophomore, was one of three candidates racing for the seat. The results of the campaign proved to re-elect the incumbent, Roger Green; hCJwev,er, Voyt;icky was not dismayed w:ith the final per- centages .. Voyticky who started his campaign as late as June of this year, managed to earn ap- proXimately 8 percent of the vote which, according to Voyticky, was what he basically had expected. His two op- ponents, Roger Green, the in- cwnbent, and Stanley Greer, each received 61 percent and 31 percent of the vote, respec- tively. Although these statistics seem to indicate that Voyt;icky had a poor showing at the polls, he commented that, in fact, he succeeded in capturing all his party's vote which, due to the extremely low number of Republicans in his district, amount to only 5 percent. Voyticky conunented that his · largest handicap in the cam- paign was not his age, but the fact that he ran on the Republican ticket in· a predominantly Democratic district. His campaign funds, which totaled about $3,000, had to compete with his opponents' budgets each of which greatly surpassed his by more than ten times. During the campaign, there was a debate hosted by the Republican party the first week of October which gained C()Verage in the October 9 issue of THE PHOENIX newspaper of Brownstone Brooklyn. Voyticky, who was commented to have been nervous during the debate, impressed the crowd ·with his reply to a question on his young age commenting that \everybody has to start somewhere.\ Voyticky is banking on this year's campaign as a source of experience for the future. He is presently planning to run for the sea~ again when elections ap- proach in 1988. · **Note: Library hours are extended starting this week (excluding Fridays and Saturdays) till 1:00 p.m.; however no library services will be available. Any oc- curences of vandalism will result in ·loss of this privilege. ALSO-Classrooms in HUMN and sse will be open till 2:00 a.m. from November 15 to November 25. ··~:~ Lawyer .Justifies Se Afrlcan- Co.mmunist Ties Continued f.rom page 1 Structtlre Legislation which gave them the power to evict and destroy the Wlauthorized housing. An example where this happened was the Cross-Road Comnnmity. · Ngcobo concluded his presentation by saying that the South African government will never move a way from the apartheid system unless forces. The end of apartheid can only occur if black wishes are ac- ceded to--specifically the .concept of a one man one vote. Ngcobo's final remark was a comment comparing the struggle of blacks in South Africa and here in the United States. He said the black fight for liberty in South Africa is a precedent in the world even considering the protests of blacks in the United States during the 1960's. After the conclusions of Ngcobo's speech, the audience had the opportunity to ask him questions. In his response to a question asking tb.e amount of influence Bishop Desmond Tutu possessed, he replied that Tutu offered \spiritual leadership under difficult situation.'' Ngcobo also said that Tutu's influence has been \rendered somehow irrelevant by the movement of the people.\ On the subject of the United States government, Ngcobo had several suggestions. .Jie described the ,U.S. as a government who collaborates with South Africa; we are passive and supportive of South Africa. What is needed is disassociation from South Africa. Lastly, he described the African National Congress. He stated that they had only associated themselves with the Comm11Ilists because it was an absolute necessity in order to achieve their goals. They are fighting a common enemy-the South African government. Ngcobo paralleled this to the situation during ww n when the United States and Britain were allied with Comm11nist Russia in ordet\ to defeat their enemy- Nazi Germany. Sandile Ngcobo is a research associate for Judge A. Leon Eigginhotham Jr. lliggin- botham is an adjunct professor in the Department of Sociology and alstl a lecturer at Albany Law School and at the University of Pennsylvania. Union was able to have him visit and lecture through the fund. allotted through the Minority Colloquial Series. He was born in Durban, South Africa, and in the spt\fug 1986, received his law degree from Harvard Law School. T.hurs., ·Nov. 13 thrauth ·sun., Nov. 23 , .,,., · •.. --s,\p·;m ..... ,,..::so,.,,_ m<. ·· ,,, ,.q\'\~\' 1 i''''o.+ ,, Cilde&y of the·:latllskellar

,, '1 1: J I ·' ' j CONCORDIENSJS, November 13, 1986 Page3 Student Complaints on Phone System Abound; No Students Were On Planning Committee ~ ·W Continued from page 1 will change-we know the cost af the syste:m and installation, but the maintenance contract, charges from AT&T for line use, and cost of living will change. Some of the estimates are ac- curate and some may not be, and wiH need future revision. \We then attempted to allocate costs between the faculty and administration and students.\ Hauser emphasized that students are \not being asked to hear the ad- ministration's and faculty's cost.\ He continued, ''We went through every element and to 'our best ability made the split (between students and others). ''Once we had what looked like costs to students, we decided what part was line costs~each line cost the same amount to install In each. room and is one figure. The other part is 'student volume'-the nwnber of students per line. A suite (of four people) will make more calls than a single room.\ He said earlier that single rooms faced a heavy bill because a private phone is a \luxury to singles.\ Hauser added, \A step you have to take is to make a comparison t(} rates in the outside world. We'd be derelict in our duties if we did:1't compare. We (Union's system) offer more, like data ac- cessibility at a very competitive cost.\ When asked if Union's rates were raised from cost-covering level to a level to match those of the outside world, Hauser responded that we \did not increase our rates to match those of AT&T. We are not trying to make money from students, we are trying to recover costs.\ He concluded his statement on rates by saying, ''This letter is under my signature because the rates are the result of my calculations\ and if anyone believes there is something wrong with the figures, \I am responsible and people should come to me.\ The data access feature of the system is one of its primary features; h<1wever, most estimates indicate that only 100- 200 students at most are using it. One question students ask is why does each student have to pay for a service only used by a few. Hauser responded that if only users paid for the service, ''it would make the cost to them . exorbitant. We want to en- ·courage, not discourage, use.\ When asked if thete was another way to establish the data system, such as a limited nwnber of lines or a computer access switchboard, Hauser replied that the committee that chose the system felt that this choice was \the only way to do it.\ Mr. Walter Cook of the Office of Computer Services { OCS) indicated that the system does not require their affice to turn on a switch; use of the system only requires students to ,pur- chase a computer account and then plug into the wall, since the lines are active. There is therefore no way to directly charge data line users except to survey holders of computer accounts and then ascertain which ones are on line. That would necessitate a check of dorm rooms,. which Cook said is beyond the jurisdiction of his office. \I question whether the inclusion of students would have resulted in a different system or different costs.\ · Hauser The committee that chose the NYNEX system for Union consisted of Hauser, Winkler, Wayne Holt of OCS, Jack Hill of campus operations, Dean of Residence Life David Wood, and a consultant from the ELRA group of N.Y.C. There were no students on this com- mittee and when asked about that, Hauser replied, \The job of getting it done was technical and time consuming . . . and much of it was done while students were not here . . . I question whether the inclusion of students would have resulted in a different system or dif- ferent costs.\ However, students were present on campus in February 1985 when the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Trustees approved the final plan. \The Student Forum feels that these rates are un- justified and believes the college acted illegally.\ - Junior student Trustee Mark Webster. The administration ap- parently has one view on which it holds firm. Hauser, Winkler, and Ms. Mary Coates of OCS stated that students should remember that they are not paying simply for phone service but for a data <'lccess line as well. Hauser added that \at a cost comparable to phone service, students are getting much more and the system is therefore a 'good buy'.\ Although Hauser would not discuss the individual cost of the data lines, the entire system cost $2,2SO,OOO. UniGn's Phone Rates Compared with New York Telephone Rates: NYT, Dorm Centrex Line Charge 22.83 Tax-Federal (3%) State/Local (10%) $2.97 Annua I Pro· Ra1ed I nsta II at ion TOTAL ANNUAL: OPTIONAL: Call Waiting 3-Way Confer. Speed Dialing Phone Rental Sl NGLE DOUBLE TRIPLE SUITE UfiiiON (per per.) $252/yr. $156/yr. $120/yr. $102/yr. $25.80 monthly $289.00 (for 9 mos.) $57.00 $289.00*** $3.97 $12.72 $4.78) $3.97 per month $4.00 per month 1-IYT (per per.) DIFFERENCE $289/yr. $144.50/yr. $96.35/yr. $72. '25/yr. ·$37 .00/y r. +$11.50/yr. +$23.65/yr. +$29.75/yr. Students are also concerned over the \custom calling\ features, which are used rarely and most say they would not choose if the choice had been theirs. These services, if or~ dered from NYT, wouid cast $12.72monthly, but according to Hauser, these features are part of the system p,ackage and added \very little ' to the cost of the system, an amount that would be negligible in tenns of its effect on student phone rates. The Student Forum has consulted a lawyer on the issue of the legality of the system. The lawyer, wha chooses to remain anonymous, stated that it was illegal for the College to provide a mandatory service without providing the financial cost to students. Hauser replied that he did not believe it was an illegal action, and \when we gave the service we didn't charge students for it.\ Students are not paying for fall term usage; this bill is for winter term. The Student Forum, ac- cording to Junior Student Trustee Mark Webster, feels that these rates are unjustified and believes the college acted illegally. The administration, Webster said, deceived students by not stating fees in the beginning. The Forum has established a committee to investigate the matter and Webster said that he and Julie Mountain, senior student trustee, will bring the matter before the Board of Trustees at their January meeting. Diane Winkler answered the questions concerning the long- distance billing. The College has had to install a billing system for the long-distance service consisting of a software package and an interface with the current billing system. The Telecomm1.mications Office did not want to send out bills without testing the brand new package, which also contained modifications from OCS. Winkler said that they wanted to test it on data from the in- stalled phone system, which was not completed until 1\.ugust, and wanted actual long- distance data, which required September's phone calls. The first test turned up some \bugs but, according to Winkler, last week's test was \perfect.\ Students will receive both Sept. and Oct. phone bills before they leave for vacation and these bills will be separate from the normal student bill- only students, not parents, will receive a copy, and it will be payable to the Cashier's Office on campus. Students not paying within three months will have their phone bill transferred to their normal student bill. Concordiensis Continued from page 1 Concordiensis has now served the college community con· sistently for over a century. The purpose of the paper is to in- form the members of the college of the events that affect their lives. In accomplisbing this goal the paper also provides an opportunity to participate in a vital campus activity while perpetuating and constantly improving one of the oldest papers in the area. .c - E 1.1) ({) u u QJ D QJ -~ 0 \\''~ 0 .c: 0.. D.iane Winkler, telecomml:lnications manager, explains the ab· sence of long distance phone bills. Voticky Pockets Republican Vote; Loses to Incumbent By CHRISTINE HONG Last week, along with the influx of campaign results from this November's elections, came the outcome of a state assembly race in the 57th District of New York. Republican Joseph Voyticky '89, a Union sophomore, was one of three candidates racing for the seat. The results of the campaign proved to re-elect the incumbent, Roger Green; however, Voyticky was not dismayed with the final per- centages. Voyticky who started his campaign as late as June of this year, managed to earn a~ proximately 8 percent of the vote which, according to Voyticky, was what he basically had expected. His two OJr ponents, Roger Green, the in- cumbent, and Stanley Greer, each received 61 percent and 31 percent of the vote, respec- tively. Although these statistics seem to indicate that Voyticky had a poor showing at the polls, he commented that, in fact, he succeeded in capturing all his party's vote which, due to the extremely low number of Republicans in his district, amount to only 5 percent. Voyticky commented that his largest handicap in the cam- paign was not his age, but the fact that he ran on the Republican ticket in a predominantly Democratic district. His campaign funds, which totaled about $3,000, had to compete with his opponents' budgets each of which greatly surpassed his by more than ten times. During the campaign, there was a debate hosted by the Republican party the first week of October which gained coverage in the October 9 issue of THE PHOENIX newspaper of Brownstone Brooklyn. Voyticky, who was commented to have been nervous during the debate, impressed the crowd with his reply to a question on his young age commenting that \everybody has to start somewhere.\ Voyticky is banking on this year's campaign as a source of experience for the future. He is presently planning to run for the seat again when elections ap- proach in 1988. * *Note: Library hours are extended starting this week (excluding Fridays and Saturdays) till 1:00 p.m.; however no I ibrary services will be available. Any oc· curences of vandalism will result in loss of this privilege. ALSO-Classrooms in HUMN and sse will be open till 2:00 a.m. from November 15 to November 25. lawyer Justifies S. African- Communist Ties Continued from page 1 Structure Legislation which gave them the power to evict and destroy the Wlauthorized housing. An example where this happened was the Cross-Road Community. Ngcobo concluded his presentation by saying that the South African government will never move away from the apartheid system unless forces. The end of apartheid can only occur if black wishes are ac- ceded to--specifically the concept of a one man one vote. Ngcobo's final remark was a comment comparing the struggle of blacks in South Africa and here in the United States. He said the black fight for liberty in South Africa is a precedent in the world even considering the protests of blacks in the United States during the 1960's. After the conclusions of Ngcooo's speech, the audience had the opportunity to ask him questions. In his response to a question asking the amount of influence Bishop Desmond Tutu possessed, he replied that Tutu offered \spiritual leadership under difficult situation.\ Ngcooo alsa said that Tutu's influence has been \rendered somehow irrelevant by the movement of the people.\ On the subject o! the United States government, Ngcooo had several suggestions. ,He described the U.S. as a government who collaborates with South Africa; we are passive and supportive of South Africa. What is needed is disassociation from South Africa. Lastly, he described the African National Congress. He stated that they had only associated themselves with the Communists because it was an absolute necessity in order to achieve their goals. They arE fighting a common enemy-the- South African government. Ngcobo paralleled this to the situation during WW II when the United States and Britain were allied with Communist Russia in order to defeat their enemy- Nazi Germany. Sandile Ngcobo is a research associate for Judge A. Leon Higginbotham Jr. Higgin- ootham i~ an adjunct professor in the Depattment of Sociology and als<' a lecturer 1t Albany Law School and at the University of Pennsylvania. Union was able to have him visit and lecture through the fund allotted through the Minority Colloquial Series. He was born in Durban, South Africa, and in the spring, 1986, received his law degree from Harvard Law School. FREE COFFEE Thurs., Nov. 13 through Sun., Nov. 23 8 p .. m .. .w 11:30 p.m. Courtesy of 1he Rathskellar

I Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, November 13~ 1986 PrJWWltcl at I Inrc~~ ('oil~ /,97':' ----~---- --~---- College Arrogance Costs Us It was .difficllltto believe that the Telet,;onununications Office had the arrogance to d~liver their Telecommunications System rates last Thursday on :N()v. 5, with the proud claim that \We were pleased that o11:ly relatively minor problems were encouq.tered,\ and that ''We believe these charges for the system, service and features enmneratted above are fair and extremely competitive.\ We beg to diffEr. Do they realize that our first bill is already six weeks late, and that this does '[lOSe a relatively major inconvenience. Without that first bill to budget our calls by, many students may have overex- tended their funds: Also for many students, the. New York Telephone services they paid for last yEar vrere considerably less expensive than the college system. Howevel' the Administration has blessed us with con- venience feattues such as 7-way call conferencing, and call .;vaiting, all of which are unnecessary, and unrequested by the ;tudents. It was lietermined by- the Administration that these ex- pensive, unwantell features would he appreciated. If there had been student rep~:esentation on the planning committee, maybe this system wmdd have better reflected the interests of the students. Also, a considerable amount of the charge was accwnulated by the data lines whichareused by a mere 10% of the students. Our first notifi·cation of the service charge was delivered in a letter which st11deiJts received at the end of the swnmer. It in- formed us that tile standard system was non-optional and ''will be billed to each .st11:dent at a pre-determined fixed cost.\ How much more vague could.they have been? The August 19letter to students is yet another syiilptom of a major problem at Union. The letter was vague and rnisleadi11g and did not properly inform students of the changes to come. If students had been merely included in the decision·making i)r:-ocess the community would have been at least, aware of what ,we.· were paying for and perhaps significant un- justified costs wollldhave been avoided. Treat PBK Lounge ·with Respect The renovati()ll of the Phi Beta Kappa room_ on the third floor of Schaffer Library ·IL~s been a most welcome addition to the campus. For those memi)er'~ of the campus community who have not yet seen its recOIIstlilction, they will be impressed with its style and grace. The PBK r'O()m and lounge were constructed with funds from · the Henry Schaffoer:- trust and_ serves as a monument to his· memory. , The lounge is d;Ecorated with beautiful wood ta.bles and finely embroidered c~uciles. It also serves the function of storage of fragile books tbat the college maintains on shelves that are en- .closed with goldstyle·steel mesh. The inside of the ?;BK room is now the premier site for meetings on the college ca:mpus, although it will also be used for classes. A long beautiful wroqd. table is surrounded by superbly decorated chairs and reminds one of the meeting rooms of the board of directors of maj()r c:orporations. . · UnfortunatelJ, •II!any students have treated the PBK room and lounge with disres;pect. Garbage is left all over the entire area at the end of an evelli:Ilg of study and some students have even felt the urge to deface tile beautiful oak tables with ink markings and pen scratches. The bllllge has been in use for only two short weeks and already students have vandalized the lounge in this manner. If we intend this part of the College to be used by the student body, we must treat it with dignity and maintain its exceptional style. The PBKl<Jllilge is presently open from 8 A.M. to 11 ?.M. If we continue to abllse this privilege, it will become like the Milano Lounge and will only be used for special occasions. Concordy Extra This week sCJme dedicated members of the Concordiensis staff have decidtldto Jli:'Ovide their readers with a special edition of the •1ewspaper whic1I, among other things, commemorates the 109~h anniv-ersary of the Union campus paper. Many of us felt a vmd created by the fa.ct that the term started on a Wednesday, th~refore leaving two TluJ.rsdays before the end of the term on which we would notpul>lisi:Ji How could we resist! . . In this issue, W/e have attempted to 11lummate the problems caused by a C()llege in transition. By the time we return from our break ·the Alll1IUli Gym will be completed and the Student Center will b'e only five or six months away from its dedication .. The proposals that ltave surfaced in an atteJ?pt to change our curriculum have challenged and stimulated Ideas about what the College sh()uld offer. Others have descri~ed t~e shift in Union's social scene as tllat aspect of campus hfe tr1es desperately to identify itself. F·<JI:' example, on page one Dave Gulliver, our news· editor attem[ltS t() tackle the problems of the new . telecom· munications s:ye;tem and on pages one and two Prof. Frank Gado explains his vie~s on the curren~ Union administration. Of course, we couldn't forget about the exc1tement created by our undefeated Dutchmen footb:all squad which is featured in our sports se,ction. This week we h.ave brought you a Concordiensis extra. We hope you enjoy it! This is the last issue of the Fall term. Concordy will return on January f 5th. ·See you next term! LETTERS Teaching and Research Support Each Other · To the Editors: ;• I would like to enter a brief . dissent on one point in your editorial \The Carnegie Report: Lessons for Union\ (11- • 8-86, p. B)·. Research & publications are not \overemphasized here at Union.\ The teaching of, un- dergraduates ls the main mission of the Union faculty. Historically, teaching has · received the primary emphasis · in the critical decisions · af- . fecting faculty. Only in the past 10 to 15 years, has re11earch moved up to a parity with teaching. When I joined the Union faculty in the late 1960's, this was essentially a very good teaching institution with a few ·scholars. There were many fipe teachers, but there were also some, who -· absent any research interest ,whatsoever, were not alwars ~u courant with 'their pr.ofess.iDnal fieldS. Today you have a facUlty; for the most. part, . t>f teacher- scholars, the result of a much (intellectually)' healthier in- stitutionalrelatiDnship between the v:alues of teaching and. research. As defined· at UniQn, these ·are. complementary, not competing, values grounded in the belief that ther~ is a nexus between· research leading to publication and enilancement Qf the teaching process. WhUe the evaluati:on of teaching per- formance in the ten1ire and promotion proce.ss\ has always COMMENTARIES PAUL SCHOP •.• From the Albany Desk. been stressed, :the College in recent years .has developed .a. set ·Of. reasonable expectations for scholarship es well, based on consideratiolls of both the quality and qtJantity of work. What does this all have to do · with the preSEnt and future generations of 1Jnion students? · Because teaching and scholarship. are now correctly regarded as mutually sup• ,portive activities,,., the con- temporary factllty is stronger than its predecessors, and, as a CQnsequence, the edttcatior,t it offersthe students at Union is of a much higher q11a1ity than in the past. Robert Sharlet Professor of :P()liticalScience Last week's elections, as has who ran for re-election; lost. Senate. been widely reported, has pro- This year, seven incwnbents These seats ~those that were duced·few surprises. One result were defeated. Since many of lost by Republicans last that has produced some star· them were Repllblicans who Tuesday) were traditi<inally tlement was the number of new were first elected Vlith Reagan, Democratic. T!lC>se Republicans Democratic Senators who were in 1980, do you bE!lieve that this were elected in 1980 :with a little elected, despite heavy cam- year's results aFearefiection of over 50 percerit. 'They lost with a paigning nationwide by a general dissatisfaction with little less than 50 percent. · President Reagan. In order to Reagan's policies, particularly If you comiJare the Senate gain the perspective of a his support of SDI. and his elections witb tile H()Use, where knowledgeable Washington refusal to include it i.n US-Soviet the President's party tends to insider, From the Albany Desk arms talks? lose 3o-40 seats in a mid-term has asked Congressman Gerald A.) No, absolutely not. As a election, we ollly lost five. We Solomon (R-24), to comment on matter of fact, tlte American also picked UJl several gover~ last week's results. Solomon's pubt:ic overwhelmingly sup- norships in heavily Democratic district extends from ports his actions at Reykjavik. states, like South Carolina. This Poughkeepsie to Lake George, They also overwhelmingly is unheard Df: and includes Saratoga and parts support hisSDI pt()gta,m. · Domestic .issues are what of Rennsselaer Counties. As a veteran member of the tended to cause some Q~) IIi the last two Senatorial House Foreign Relations Republican Sen~torial defeats. elections, i:n 1982 and '84, only 5 CQmmittee, I will have to work For instance, there have peen incumbent Senators out of, 511 with .. t~e. Dem~~~t~ .. ~: .;~~e J)ockets of recession. recerltry irl ·' ,- ..... , .. , . . . , ,·: ... - .. ' . -.-.-. · •.. ·. :C~!J,!JtJn.uect~oJI, a ~·6 In Search Of Excellence By CHARLIESLOTNIK On the back of the 1987 Fresh- man Record there is the Union College insignia and; un- derneath, a phrase that says \A Tradition of Excellence.'' Does Union College actually have a tradition of excellence, or would the statement \A Tradition of Mediocrity\ be more appropriate for this academic institution. For a college that claims excellence Union has only a handful of distinguished alumni, • has been unable t() attract an elite faculty, and cannot even get a famous person as a graduation speaker. If Union is ever to be con- sidered a truly excellent school it must first confront its mediocrity, and strive to im- plement change. In the mid- 1970s the Union administration led by President Bonner had visions of what he thought was excellence. Howev·er, his VISions were somewhat distorted as he ·felt the key to excellence was a powerful division one hockey team. President Bonner believed that a successful team would not only give Union an identity, but also improve alwnni donations · which would impr-ove facilities, attract better faculty, and improve the quality .of a Union education. Although President Bonner was wrong and unethical in trying to bring a .powerful hockey t.eam to Union he at least attempted to establish a tradition of ex:• cellence. Since tl)e hockey scandal and subsequent depar.ture of Bonner, President Morris has brought stability back to the Union campus .. President Morris came to Union at a time when Union could have . deteriorated into a third rate institution, but Uilder hit leadership Union has been able to remain respectable. However, 10 years have passed since the hockey scandal, and it is now time for Union to again :pursue ex- cellence. In order .for Union to improve as an institutiqn, the administration m-ust first im- prove. President -Morris has done a fine job as president, and. has raised for the con- struction · ne1~aea $udent center,cmd a new gym but he is not the man that is going to . lead Union to ex- cellence. A recent study of college presidents s~nsored by the Exxon Foundation listed 100 college presi<t~nts that are copsidered the most effective by their peers• .The study in- cluded preside11ts from many Co11tinued on page 6 f

CONCORDIENSJS, November 13, 1986 <!lJJm::orbirnsis _____ Fowwra arl;mon Col/~/.~.·.· __ _ College Arrogance Costs Us It was difficult to believe that the Telecommunications Office had the arrogance to deliver their TelecGmmunications System rates last Thursday on Nov. 5, with the proud claim that \We were ;lleased that only relatively miner problems were encotrntered,\ Jlld that \We believe these charges for the system, service and features emun.erated above are fair and extremely competiti-ve.\ We beg to dif£er. Do they realize th.at our first bill is already six weeks late, and that this does pose a relatively major inconvenience. WtthoMt that first bill to budget our calls by, many students may have overex- tended their funds. Also for many students, the New York Telephone services they paid for last year were considerably lt:ss expensive than the college .')'Stem. However the Administration has blessed. us with con- .,.~nience features such as 7-way call conferencing, and caU vaiting, aU of which are unnecessary, and unrequested by the .tudents. It was determined by the AdmiRistration that these ex- pensive, unwanted features would be appreciated. If there had been student representation on the planning committee, maybe this svstem would have better reflected the interests of the students. ~(Iso, a considerable amount of the charge was accumulated by the data lines which are used by a mere 10% of the students. Our first notification of the service charge was delivered in a letter whieh students received at the end of the summer. It in- formed us that the standard system was non-optional and ''will be billed to each student at a pre-determined fixed cost.\ How much more vague ccmld they have been? The August 19letter to students is yet another symptom of a major problem at Union. The letter was vague and misleading and did not properly inform students of the changes to come. If students had been merely included in the decision-making process the community would have been at least, av.rare of what we were paying for and perhaps significant un- justified costs would have been avoided. Treat PBK Lounge With Respect The renovation of the Phi Beta Kappa room on the third floor of Schaffer Lil>rary has been a most welcome addition to the campus. For those members of the campus community who have not yet seen its reconstruction, they will be impressed with its style and grace. The PBK room and lounge were constructed with fWlds from the Henry Schaffer trust and serves as a monument to his memory. The lounge is decorated with beautiful wood tables and finely embroidered couches. It also serves the function of storage of fragile books that the college maintains on shelves that are en- closed with gold style steel mesh. The inside oi the PBK room is now the premier site for meetings ()n the college campus, although it will also be used for classes. A long beautiful wood table is surrounded by superbly decorated chairs and reminds one of the meeting rooms of the board of (tirectors.ofmajor corporations. Unfortunately, many students have treated the PBK room and lounge with disrespect. Garbage is left all over the entire area at the end of an evening of study and some students have even felt the tuge to deface the beautiful oak tables with ink markings and pen scratches. The lounge has been in use for only two short weeks and already students have vandalized the lounge in this manner. If we intend this part of the College to be used by the student body, we must treat it with dignity and maintain its exceptional style. The PBK lounge is presently open from 8 A.M. to 11 P.M. If we continue to abuse this privilege, it will become like the Milano Lounge and will only be used for special occasions. Concordy Extra This week some dedicated members of the Concordiensis staff 'lave decided to provide their readers with a special edition of the 1ewspaper which, among other things, commemorates the 109~h anniversary of the Union campus paper. Many of us felt a void created by the fact that the term started on a Wednesday, th~refore leaving tw() Thursdays before the end of the term on wh1ch we would not publish. How could we resist! ln this issue, we have attempted to illuminate the problems caused by a College in transition. By the time we return from our break, the Alumni Gym will be completed and_ the St~de~t Center will be only five or six months away from 1ts dedication. The proposals that have surfaced in an attempt to change our curriculum have challenged aDd stimulated ideas about what the College sh()uld offer. Others have described the shift in Union's social scene as that aspect of campus life tries desperately to identify itself. For example, on page one Dave Gulliver, our news editor attempts to tackle the problems of the new telecom- munications system and on pages one and two Prof. Frank Gado ex::plains his views on the current Union administration. Of course, we couldn't forget about the excitement created by our undefeated Dutchmen football squad which is featured in our sports section. This week we have brought you a Concordiensis extra. We hope you enjoy it! This is the last issue of the Fall term. Concordy will return on January lSth. See you next term I LETTERS Teaching and Research Support Each Other To the Editors: I would like to enter a brief dissent on one point in your editorial \The Carnegie Report: Lessons for Union\ (11- 8-86, p. 8). Research & publications are not \overemphasized here at Union.\ The teaching of un- dergraduates is the main missi()n ef the Union faculty. Historically, teaching has received the primary emphasis in the critical decisions af- fecting faculty. Only in the past 10 to 15 years, has research moved up to a parity with teaching. When I joined the Union faculty in the late 1960's, this was essentially a very good teaching institution with a few scl:!olars. There were many .fine teachers, but there were also some, who -- absent an.y research interest whatsoever, were not always au courant v.rith their professional fields. Toclay you have a faculty, for thE most part, ·of teacher· scbolars, the result of a much (intellectually) healthier in· stitutional relationship between thE values of teaching and research. As defined at Union, thEse are complementary, not C()mpeting, values groWlded in thE belief that there is a nexus between research leading to ptiblication and enhancement of thE teaching process. While the evaluation of teaching per~ fonnance in the tenure and promotion process bas always COMMENTARIES -- -- ---------·~ ------- PAUL~§_CHOP ... From the Alb~~~Desk Last week's elections, as has been widely reported, has pro- dllced few surprises. One result that has produced some star- tlement was the number of new Dem()cratic Senators who were elected, despite heavy cam- paigning 11ationwide by Preside11t Reagan. In order to gain the perspective of a knowledgeable Washington insider, From the Albany Desk has asked Congressman Gerald Sol()mon (R-24), to comment on last week's results. Solomon's district extends from Poughkeepsie to Lake George, and includes Saratoga and parts of Rennsselaer CoWlties. Q.) Irt the last two Senatorial elections, in 1982 and '84, only 5 incwnbent Senators out of 58 who ran for re-election, lost. This year, seven incumbents were defeated. Since many of tllem were Republicans who were first elected with Reagan, in 1960 1 do you believe that this year's results are a reflection of a general dissatisfaction with Reagan's policies, particularly his support of SDI and his refusal to include it in US-Soviet arms talks? A.) No, absolutely not. As a matter of fact, the American public overwhelmingly sup- ports his actions at Reykjavik. Tiley also overwhelmingly support his SDI program. As a veteran member of the llouse Foreign Relations Committee, I will have to work with the Democrats in the been stressed, the College in recent years has developed a set of reasonable expectations for scholarship as well, based on considerations of both the quality and quantity of work. What does this aU have to do with the present and future generations ·of Union students?· Because teaching and scholarship are now correctly regarded as mutually sup- portive activities, the con- temporary faculty is stronger than its predecessors, and, as a consequence, the education it effers the students at Union is of a much higher quality than in the past. Robert Sharlet Professor of Pelitical Science Senate. These seats (those that were lost by Republicans last Tuesday) were traditionally Democratic. Tilose Republicans were elected in 1980 with a little over 50 percerit. They lost with a little less than 50 percent. If you compare the Senate elections with the House, where the President's party tends to lose 30-40 seats in a mid-term election, we only lost five. We also picked up several gover· norships in heavily Democratic states, like South Carolina. This is Wlheard of. Domestic issues are what tended to cause some Republican Senatorial defeats. For instance, there have been pockets of recession recently in Continued on page 6 In SearchOf Excellence By CHARLIE SLOTNIK On the back of the 1987 Fresh- man Record there is the Union College insignia and, un- derneath, a phrase that says \A Tradition of Excellence.\ Does Union College actually have a tradition of excellence, or would the statement \A Tradition of Mediocrity\ be more appropriate for this academic institution. For a college that claims excellence Union has only a handful of distinguished alumni, has been unable to attract an elite faculty, and cannot even get a famous person as a graduation speaker. If Union is ever to be con- sidered a truly excellent school it must first confront its mediocrity, and strive to im- plement change. In the mid- 1970s the Union administration led by President Bonner had visions of what he thought was excellence. However, his v1s1ons were somewhat distorted as he felt the key to excellence was a powerful division one hockey team. President Bonner believed that a successful team would not only give Union an identity, but also improve alumni donations which would improve facilities, attract better faculty, and improve the quality of a Union education. Although President Bonner was wrong and unethical in trying to bring a . powerful hockey team to Union he at least attempted to . establish a tradition of ex- cellence. · Since the hockey scandal and subsequent departure of Bonner, President Morris has · brought stability back to the Union campus. President Morris came to Union at a time when Union could have deteriorated into a third rate Institution, but under hit leadership Union has been able to remain respectable. However, 10 years have passed since the hockey scandal, and it is now time for Union to again pursue ex- cellence. In order for Union to improve as an institution, the administration must first im- prove. President Morris has done a fine job as president, and has raised for the con- struction of needed ~tudent center, and a new gym but he is not the man that is going to lead Union to ex- cellence. A recent study of college presidents sponsored by the Exxon Foundation listed 100 college presidents that are considered the most effective by their peers. The study in- cluded presidents from many Continued on page 6

f . . CONCORDIENSIS, November 13, 1986 Page 5 FEATURES WRUC Temporarily Off the Air .. currently broadcasting c;;t a lower wattage THE ART:S Talk Of The Town .. ~he CONCORDY recently asled \What do you think should be done· witll the $2.3 million By JOHNS. MORGAN mon. problem which cAA be withstood when the reflected power does not exceed several watts .. Commission) regulation& that W.R.U.C. can broadcast for thirty days at 10 watts. · _.budgetary :surplus? · Due to pofar icecap for- mations on the root of Union College's Old . Chapel, W.R.U.C.'s. 11ew leadership finds itself between a rock .and a pl;:~ce. The station's 100 watt transmitter coughed, wheezed and otherwise reftised to func- tion as the rest. ·of the college rolled over to catch some more snooze early in the morning on Thursday, November 6. According to W. R.U.C. W. R. U .C.. continued to broadcast through Friday evening USing a 1()-watt backup transmitter. However, because the executive board was \Ul· certflin as to the legality of broadcasting below the specified wattage of 100, they discontinued broadcasting Fri~y evening at 11 p.m. Due to widely ex-pressed campus interest, Saturday~s away football game against Hamilton was also broadcast at 10 watts. According to G~neral Tatge and ot:her executive board members expressed frustration at the technical misfortune that befell the station. :a:owever, optimism was increased by the support of W.R.U.C. 's listenership who continued to call the station requesting its return to the air. Srdanovlc has sent the transmitter (.mt for repair to Q.E.I.;a repair firm, and expects the station to broadcast at 100 watts by next week. He also noted that this is not the first time that Schenectady's blustery winters have hindered the station's broadcast capacity. He insists that \heating Wlits must be installed on the RF (radio frequency) coils on our antenna tower to Technical :Manager Anton Srdan9vic the output and driver amplifiers in the transmitter's internal cicruitry burned out· due to power r~flection. When ice forms on the station's an- tenn.a, power is reflected' to the tranS.mitter. According to Srdanovic, ice formaUon on broadcast antennas is a ·coin- Man~ger. Conrad Tatge the station returned to the air on the morning of Wednesday, November 12 after it was determined that under F.C.C. (Federal Communications ----------~--....._......___. _________ __, assure that this problem is avoided in the future.\ The Frankenstein at P·roctor's By JULIE STEINBERG and DEBBm GQLLIN As the Halloween celebrating escapes us,. we take time out to remember all thOse joyous festivities which have con- tributed to this wonderful autumn. holiday · w~ all have celebrated since childhood. As children, we would frequent neighbors' houses in our clown or bunny costimes as our fathers followed ten feet behind with flashlight in hand, cursing as they collected eggs, shaving <;r~~ ... and,. , ijall9W.~ep. .,_ .. t~-···-·.9-., Jl \\'~. \1•- ... how our fathers felt all those years, and came to the con- clusion that it would have been at le;,lSt more entertaining to parade throughout the neigh- borpood with mounds of goop upon your body. Actually, it wasn't that bad. (who are we kidding, of course-it was .... ) QJ 1... Ill QJ a. Vl <L> :r: . \Frankenstein'' a book by Mary Shelley, was interpreted by John. Stang and.- Janet Farrow, and with the help of Anthony Urgo, was perfonned by the American Shakespeare Repertory.October 30. It opened W:ith. a yo~ng Dr. Victor 'Frarllteristeirt' · · (played by Dougla·s- Overtoom); ·tired, weak, hungry, and ragged, frantically discussin~ his mysterious \experiment' with his young, poor, whorish-maid- sexually unsatisfied female housemate Liza, played by Janet Farrow. As the play progressed, we were then shown Victor's family and wife- to-be, in Geneva (not that tllere was any indication of a new setting let alone a new town, being that the scenery was constant thrQughout the entire play). Here, his famUy-and Ill .c: 1/) c: ltl u ·;: Q> E ~ >- \' 2 I. ::> 0 ·U ·Douglas Overtoam as Young Dr. . Frankenstein decorations on their shoes, \jacket and hair. Well, as we are now in our senior year .of college, we found it somewhat juvenile to be seen in a bunny costume, and decidedto expand our horizons and view \Frankenstein\ at Proctor's Theatre. Well, we soon realized - fiancee were discussing their concern with Victor's health and awaiting his return to his home in Ingolstadt. His fiancee was most anxious about his return (as she seduced his best friend) after the long awaited conclusion of his monstrous experirhent (no pun intended). Well, the story dragged on (quite literally) as we all know it, and the doctor proceeded to collect assorted body parts (from both dead and living 'donors') with the help of a vagabond-thie.f, .whose prime \In the Arms of Morpheus'' By JEFFREY AUERBACH You slap the snoo2:e button for _ the fow1;h time. It's 9:13a.m.; no time for a shower. Cursory· look in the mitTor-you look like death. The clothes on the floor will do. Wbere's that hat? You grab the nearest notebook and you're all set for class. Someone's ·bound to have an extra pen. Rats! The seats in the back of the classroom are taken. You resign to sit1;ing dangerously close to the professor. ''OK. no.w, can someone identify any of the major works of the great American physician and editor Morris FIShbein?\ He's iooking your way, but something is wrong. Your eyes reluctantly close and your head eases forward. You wake. Were you snoring? The professor continues oblivious to your musings In the pursuit of consciousness, you tap a beat on the ,desk. You shift positions in your seat. Nothing seems to work. Resignedly, you wonder how to best hide these attacks of somnolence. 1. With elbow on desk, cup your hand on brow. (effective and comfortable) 2. Hide behind big guy seated ln front of you. (not always possible, ·but a neat ploy) 3. Wear mirrored sunglasses. (caveat( tends to attract attention) 4. Keep windpipe in per- ·w .R. U. C. technical staff is presently looking into the current antenna's adaptability for such heating units. interest was money for food and clothes. However, the doctor was adamant on his demands for young, fresh, strong organs, and often refused payment for unsatisfactory ones. This caused his assistant to kill Liza (the 'maid') with a mute as a witness (how convenient). Anway, the plot far from thickened as we observed the newly formed monster attack and eat people while bright, Q~f!.Qxio~ lights strobe<\. and · _sbone_ their way tbrough our retina. Therefore, for a good forty-five minutes the only things that were visible were a various array of blue dots. However, we were readily entertained as characters: a. forget their cues as they tripped up a flight of stairs, b. were \resurrected\ as the lights came up for the next scene (which they were not supposed to be in, c. showed absolutely NO physical activity as they emotionlessly recited their lines while being fondled or caressed by members. of the opposite sex, and · d. entered . the stage with their clothes haphazardly strewn across their bodies. Needless to say, the show was not only amateurely done, but also extremely disappointing and untertaining. ·u Mary Shelley had been their to wit- ness such a performance, she, too, would have exclaimed \I've created a monster! ! ! \ Next year, it's bunny costumes all the way... Dad, get that flashlight ready .... pendicular position to prevent snoring. All these considerations have made you drowsy once again. The class is misty, seeming to go in no direction, and so is this article. }NII•;t Herb began to bo.ullo pnupte!iw:frerh.,erw/sh• l{hiJOI'I im~enll, h• Wdi m\IHd fHiwtetz 1ht ,,...., Interviews and Photographs by Dave Gruber and K. Burnham \Lower tuition.\ Beth FJ,'eire '88 Math-Philosophy. \Replace the present ad· . ministration or throw a Molson party.\ Ed Popiel '87 Math-Bio. \Fix the Nott Memorial.\ Greg Fay '87 American Studies. ' ''I'ry to give it back to the · students either in form of f11rther improvements of stiudures and services or in redllced tuition rates for futur.e students.\ Paul Schop '~7 Political Science. \Add it to the endowment . with the stipulation that 100% of its interests be applied to t.he next year's operating budget in order to avoid raises in the tuition.\ John Morgan '87 E.E. '\Dotne the school for winter tenn.\ Mike Roban '88 Political Science comi::CJ..~~~t!l!~:., u Attention all upperclassmen goi.ng abroad Winter Term who would still be interested ... Mountebanks will be producing \Godspell\ spring term. Audition Information is available at 386-4086, ask for Stephan Burdman . 1)000000 OOOOOOCIOOMO 0 0 0 I'HO 0 0 0 O<IOOOOOCIOO Facts on Mono By JEFFREY AUERBACH and LYNN DUFFY According to Doris Richards, director of the Union College Health Center, two cases of infectious mononucleosis were diagnosed this past week, four this term, and twelve last year. Webster's Dictionary defines Infectious mononucleosis as an \abnormal increase of monomuclear leukocytes (i.e. white blood cells) in the blood.\ Supposedly caused by the ·Epstein-Barr virus lEBV), ''mono\ most commonly af- flict;s young adults 15-25 years old. This contagion, nicknamed the ~'kiss.ing disease\ can be transmitted by but not ex- clusively through salivary contact. An infected person will most likely communicate the disease during its incubation period, which is 3()..50 days after infection. Note that mononucleosis is not highly contagious provided reasonable precautions are talten. For example, after a brother at a fraternity <>n campus recently contracted mono, it replaced its kit- chenware with disposable plates and utensils for the remainder of the term. A blood test is necessary to diagnose moJJO. Symptoms may include sore throat, fatigue, loss of appetite, headache, mild fevEr, and swollen lymph nodes, spleen and liver. The infectious mo11onucleosis information handout available at the Health Center, states \The illness lasts fr()m a few days to several weeks. Almost all patients recover completely, without serious after effects.\ After recovery, the individual us11any develops. mono anti-bodies and tllllS a lifelong immunity. Although there is no cure, effective treatment includes rest and the avoidance of strenuous physical activity. For more comprehensive in- formation, refer to the mono handout cited above. :

CONCORDIENSIS, November 13, 1986 PageS FEATURES. WRUC Temporarily Off the Air ... currently broadcasting at a lower wattage By JOHNS. MORGAN Due to pofar icecap for- mations on the roof of Unioa College's Old Chapel, W.R.U.C.'s new leadership finds itself between a rock and a place. The station's 100 watt transmitter coughed, wheezed and otherwise refused to func- tion as the rest of the college rolled over to catch some more snooze early in the morning on Thursday, November 6. According to W.R.U.C. mon problem which can be withstood when the reflected power does not exceed several watts. W. R. U .C. continued to broadcast through Friday evening using a 10-watt backup transmitter. However, because the executive board was un- certain as to the legality of broadcasting below the specified wattage of 100, they discontinued broadcasting Friday evening at 11 p.m. Due to widely expressed campus interest, Saturday's away football game against Hamilton was also broadcast at 10 watts. According to General Commission) regulations that W.R.U.C. can broadcast for thirty days at 10 watts. Tatge and other executive board members expressed frustration at the technical misfortune that befell the statioa. However, optimism was increased by the support of W.R.U.C.'s listenership who continued to call the statioa requesting its return to the air. Srdanovic has sent the transmitter out for repair to Q.E.I.;a repair firm, and expects the station to broadcast at 100 watts by next week. He also noted that this is not the first time that Schenectady's blustery winters have hindered the station's broadcast capacity. He insists that \heating units must be installed on the RF (radio frequency) coils on our antenna tower to Technical Manager Anton Srdanovic the output and driver amplifiers in the transmitter's internal cicruitry burned out due to power reflection. When ice forms on the station's an- tenna, power is reflected to the transmitter. According to Srdanovic, ice formatien on broadcast antennas is a com- Manager Conrad Tatge the station returned to the air on the morning of Wednesday, November 12 after it was determined that under F.C.C. (Federal Communications --------------------------. assure that this problem is Frankenstein at Proctor's >- .... ;? .... <l! a. <l! (k: <l! .... 10 (!) a. \' (!) By JULIE STEINBERG and DEBBIE GQLLIN As the Halloween celebrating escapes us, we take time out to remember all those joyous festivities which have con- tributed to this wonderful autumn holiday we aU have celebrated since childhood. As children, we would frequent neighbors' houses in our clown or bunny costimes as our fathers followed ten feet behind with flashlight in hand, cursing as they collected eggs, shaving cream, , ~nd . oth~r Halloween .:<:· 10 ..c: VJ ~. c 10 .':!. .... (!) E <! >- \' (!) +- .... ::J 0 u ::~'· Douglas Overtoom as Young Dr. Frankenstein decorations on their shoes, jacket and hair. Well, as we are now in our senior year of college, we found it somewhat juvenile to be seen in a bunny costume, and decided to expand our horizons and view \Frankenstein\ at Proctor's Theatre. Well, we soon realized how our fathers felt all those years, and came to the con- clusion that it would have been at least more entertaining to parade throughout the neigh- borhood with mounds of goop upon your body. Actually, it wasn't that bad. (who are we kidding, of course it was .... ) \Frankenstein\, a book by Mary Shelley, was interpreted by John Staag and Janet Farrow, and with the help of Anthony Urgo, was performed by the American Shakespeare Repertory October 30. It opened with a young Dr. Victor Frankenstein (played by Douglas Overtoom), tired, weak, hungry, and ragged, frantically discussin~ his mysterious \experiment' with his young, poor, whorish-maid- sexually unsatisfied female housemate Liza, played by Janet Farrow. As the play progressed, we were then shown Victor's family and wife- to-be, in Geneva (not that there was any indication of a new setting let alone a new town. being that the scenery was constant throughout the entire play). Here, his family and fiancee were discussing their concern with Victor's health and awaiting his return to his home in Ingolstadt. His fiancee was most anxious about his return (as she seduced his best friend) after the long awaited conclusion of his monstrous experiment (no pun intended). Well, the story dragged on (quite literally) as we all know it, and the doctor proceeded to collect assorted body parts (from both dead and living 'donors') with the help of a vagabond-thief, whose prime \In the Arms of Morpheus\ By JEFFREY AUERBACH You slap the snooze button for . the fourth time. It's 9:13a.m.; no time for a shower. Cursory look in the mirror-you look like death. The clothes on the floor will do. Where' s that hat? You grab the nearest notebook and you're all set for class. Someone's bound to have an extra pen. Rats! The seats in the back of the classroom are taken. You resign to sitting dangerously close to the professor. \OK now, can someone identify any of the major works of the great American physician and editor Morris F1shbein?\ He's looking your way, but something is wrong. Your eyes reluctantly close and your head eases forward. You wake. Were you snoring? The professor continues oblivious to your musings In th~ pursuit of consciousness, you tap a beat on the desk. You shift positions in your seat. Nothing seems to work. Resignedly, you wonder how to best hide these attacks of somnolence. 1. With elbow on desk, cup your hand on brow. (effective and comfortable) 2. Hide behind big guy seated in front of you. (not always possible, but a neat ploy) 3. Wear mirrored sunglasses. (caveat( tends to attract attention) 4. Keep windpipe in per- avoided in the future.\ The ·w. R. U .C. technical staff is presently looking into the current antenna's adaptability for such heating units. interest was money for food and clothes. However, the doctor was adamant on his demands for young, fresh, strong organs, and often refused payment for unsatisfactory ones. This caused his assistant to kill Liza (the 'maid') with a mute as a witness (how convenient). Anway, the plot far from thickened as we observed the newly formed monster attack and eat people while bright, opnoxious lights strobed and shone their way through our retina. Therefore, for a good forty-five minutes the only things that were visible were a various array of blue dots. However, we were readily entertained as characters: a. forget their cues as they tripped up a flight of stairs, b. were \resurrected. as the lights came up for the next scene (which they were not supposed to be in, c. showed absolutely NO physical activity as they emotionlessly recited their lines while being fondled or caressed by members of the opposite sex, and d. entered the stage with their clothes haphazardly strewn across their bodies. Needless to say, the show was not only amateurely done, but also extremely disappointing and untertaining. If Mary Shelley had been their to wit- ness such a performance, she, too, would have exclaimed \I've created a monster!!!\ Next year, it's bunny costwnes all the way... Dad, get that flashlight ready .... pendicular position to prevent snoring. All these considerations have made you drowsy once again. The class is misty, seeming to go in no direction, and so is this article. }1111 t1I Herh began tn bOIIl.lt to tmJtpecfu·e-frerhmert a/lhe s'honl t 1mp,.r:w«menJs, he tt:·df Ct\f4Ih~J IH:wtt•n th~ Jl~Uks THE ARTS Talk Of The Town !fte CONCORDY recently asked \What do you th1uk should be done with the $2.3 million budgetary surplus? Interviews and Photographs by Dave Gruber and K. Burnham \Lower the tuition.\ Beth Freire '88 Math-Philosophy. \Replace the present ad- ministration or throw a Molson party.\ Ed Popiel '87 Math-Bio. \Fix the Nott Memorial.\ Greg Fay '87 American Studies. \Try to give it back to the students either in form of further improvements of structures and services or in reduced tuition rates for future students.\ Paul Schop '87 Political Science. ''Add it to the endowment with the stipulation that 100% of its interests be applied to the next year's operating budget in order to avoid raises in the tuition.\ John Morgan '87 E.E. \Dome the school for winter term.\ Mike Rohan '88 Political Science Comi::CZc?~~l!.~!! ::ar U Attention all upperclassmen going abroad Winter Term who would still be interested ... Mountebanks will be producing \Godspell\ spring term. Audition Information is available at 386 4086, ask for Stephan Burdman. Facts on Mono By JEFFREY AUERBACH and LYNN DUFFY According to Doris Richards, director of the Union College Health Center, two cases of infectious mononucleosis were diagnosed this past week, four this term, and twelve last year. Webster's Dictionary defines infectious mononucleosis as an \abnormal increase of monomuclear leukocytes (i.e. white blood cells) in the blood.\ Supposedly caused by the Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV), \mono\ most commonly af- flicts young adults 15-25 years old. This contagion, nicknamed the \kissing disease,;, can be transmitted by but not ex- clusively through salivary contact. An infected person will mo:,t likely communicate the disease during its incubation period, which is 30-50 days after infection. Note that mononucleosis is not highly contagious provided reasonable precautions are taken. For example, after a brother at a fraternity on campus recently contracted mono, it replaced its kit- chenware with disposable plates and utensils for the remainder of the term. A blood test is necessary tc diagnose mor.o. Symptoms may include sore throat, fatigue, loss of appetit€, headache, mild fever, and swollen lymph nodes, spleen and liver. The infectious mononucleosis information handout available at the Health Center, states ''The illness lasts from a few days to several weeks. Almost all patients recover completely, without serious after effects. 11 After recovery, the individual usually develops mono anti-bodies and thus a lifelong immunity. Although there is no cure, effective treatment includes rest and the avoidance of strenuous physical activity. For more comprehensive in- formation, refer to the mono handout cited above.

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, November 13, 1986 .SCHOLARSHIPS & FELLOWSHIPS The New York State Education Department an- . noWlces a special 1986 series competition of the Regents Prof~ssi.onal Opportunity Scholarship program. Seventy- four additional awards have been created for the 1986-87 academic year . for licensure- qualifying programs. On the undergraduate .level t!Jese in- clude: accountancy, ar- chitecture, engineering, nur- sing, occupational therapy and pharmacy. Graduate awards include: law, psychology, social work, and speech-language pathology-audiology. Legal · residents of New York State who are enrolled in approved programs dtiring the 1986-87 award ·year, who_ belong to a priority minority group, and who agree to a service com- mitment are eligible to apply fo.r these awards. The ap- plication filing deadline is December 5, 1986. Winners in this competition wjll receive $1,000 to $f>,OOO a year for each year remaining in their professional programs. Contact the Financial Aid Office for more information. CLASSIFIEDS The Career Development Center will be sponsoring a Career Observation Day during the upcoming winter break. Students may sign up to observe alwnni for either one or 3-5 days, to learn what op· portunities are 'availab~ for Union's 1987 grads. The choice of careers that can be observed will be very diverse, and will range from banking; to com- puter science, to law, to publishing, as well as to a myriad of other choices. Students may sign up to ob- serve alti:mni in both the New York City tri-state area, as well as the metropolitan Boston Area. Those who are interested must sign up at the CDC office by the close of business hours on Thursday, November 13. PA speakers, Yamaha-model 4115, asking $450, excellent condition. Call after 4:00 - 377- 8003. Ho. penn Machinery Co., Inc. has job openings for Parts & Service Management Trainee and Technical Sales Trainee. They are seeking Mechanical ABRAMS& ANDERSON Engineering, Economics, and English majors. Minimum GPA of.. 2.5 Resumes must be sub- mitted by Wednesday, November 26, 1986 for tran- . smission to the company. Further information is available at the Career Development Center. The Foreign and Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from Kindergarten through College to fill over six hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. Since 1968, our organization has been finding vacancies and locating teachers both in foreign countries and in aU fifty states. We possess hundreds of current openings and have all the information as to scholarships, grants, and fellowships. · Should you wish additional information about our organization, you may write The National Teacher's Placement Agency, Universal Teachers, .Box 5231, Portland, Oregon 97208. Barbara Castle, a representative from the Stanley Kap.Lan Center in Albany will be on campus on Tuesday, November 18, from 4:30 to 6:00 p,m. in· BH102. She wi II be distributing home study materials to students who register for the MCAT Review Course on the 18th. Meal card Holders should bring their cards to Hale House 9:00·11:00 a.m. and 1 :00·3:00 through Thursday. All others· $5.00 PERSONALS Steph!! Sit DOWWN! :t ! Bets- Thanks a lot MOM! Had. a great time this term, but some advice-- WATCH out for weedy reeds! Ro-Ro. Our RA-ltA We had a \wicked\ good time this term up in the PENTHOUSE. Love, Ruff-Ruff and Ho-Ho. Psi Omega sisters - We're A-OK! Let's get psyched for a 'fab' winter term. MAD--Never mind the plastic pints, Luv, just send American Pie & a Skellar shake. CheE:rs, Mel Hey Alice! Sit down ... with love from over the ocean. SAVE $50.00 ,Order Y.our Col'lege Ring Before. ~ November· 26th and Take off . $50.00 THE CAMPUS STORE . . Your ring can be picked· up wheA· you return January 4th. $25.00 Deposit required at time of order. Commentaries Continued . .. TheAlbanynesk our country, that have been caused by such things as the drop in oil prices. This hurt us in the Louisiana Senate race.· Also, economic problems in the farm belt hurt us in the Dakotas. Those Democrats that were elected, like Graham in Florida, are generally conservative. What will hurt the President will be the shift in committee chairs to such Senators as Eiden and Kennedy. Excellence ... different types of institution13, both large and small. Alpong those on the list were RPI President Daniel Berg, Wesleyan President Colin Campbell, and Johns Hopkins President Stephen Muller. President Morris was not on the list, nor was he among the 160 nominated. Shouldn't a school that is consistently rated in the top 50-100 In the nation, have a president of equal standards. This does not mean President Morris' peers consider him a bad president, but just that he is not viewed as effective as many other presidents. During the study a picture emerged of the effective colle~P. president as one who acts m- dependently and tends to \distance'' himself from colleagues. The co-director of the survey, Barbara W. Tack, professor ot educational ad- ministration and supervision at Bowling Green State, added, What I'm saying is, don't C!)tmt Reagan out. He is the Great Compromiser, and he wilf be able to get his programs through the new CongresR. Q.) This year,. a member of the New York State Congressional delegation, Stanley Lundine, was elected Lt. Governor. Since you have served with him in Congress for many years, what kind of \Effective presidents tend to work longer hours, do not speak spontaneously, care deeply about the welfare of others, encourage creative thinking andmake decisions more easily ml)re than. other presidents interviewed.\ Although President Morris possesses many of these qualities there are obviously o.ther presidents in the nation that are superior. A college of policies do you think he would support if he were to become governor, should Cuomo leave office before the end of. 'his second term?· · · · A.) I wt>uld tnjn·k that:'he would follow· the · tdtditional DemocrAtic policies of Cuoino. He would be less New York City oriented, which would mean that Monticello and Glens Falls would have a better chance in legislative programs. Union's prestige should be able to attract one of these one hundred highly rated in- dividuals. It is time for the board of trustees to ertd this period of transition, and . hire a . more effective president that will take the necessary steps to further improve the quality of education Union students now receive. The ·Best Summer Jobs In the Country! The Appalchian Mountain Club is looking for people to work in a lodge and maintain tra.ils in the Wh~te· Mountai.hs of New Hampshire. Great op· portunit.ies fo.r hard work, leadership and amazing fun. Appl·ications are available at the Career Developelit Center or by writi.ng to Applications File, Bo.x298·AMC, Gorham, NH.0358l

\ ~ ,I I ··, ''• ; 1-· r I \ /· f I Jl ' CONCORDIENSIS, Nol'ember 13, 1986 Page7 By DOUGLAS LLOYQ On this last week of Con; cordlensis f<»r the fall of 1986, MattSmith has been selected as Union's Athlete of the Week. In a tough mU$t~win situation, Matt displayed his talents in the Dutchmen football team's 23-21 victory_ at Hamilton. Matt played a large part in com- pleting the second consec;:utive· undefeated, football season with his personal best performance. At wet and windy Hamil~on, Matt seemed to have no problems with/ his footfug. as both quarterbacks, . Tim Valachovic and Jim Poirier, combined in completing eight passes to the sophomore split end. Matt's eight catches for 139 · yards ~nd one touchdown marked his best perfonnance sin,ce coming to Union to put , him atop the receiving leaders for the Dutchmen. The 5'8\ 160 pounder mage the Jinal score on a five yard touchdoWI) pass from quarterback Jim Po1rier to give Union the lead at 32-21 late in the fourth qparter. In eight games this season Matt made 26 catches for 532 yards and· three touchdowns for an .average of 20.5 yards per catch. Matt is first 'in aU the categories for receives except catches and touChdowns where he is tied for first. Receiving passes is just one of the jobs demanded of Matt as he also Spends time retlll'lling punts and kicks. Matt is an economics major and Jives in Schenectady where he attended Christian Brothers Academy. The team,, now ranked eleventh nationally, awaits their fourth straight NCAA Division III bid and their ne~ opponent. Union, upon receiving a bid, playstheir ne~ g&lne. on Saturday, November 22. Congratulations to Matt . Smith on his fantastic ~8Ille at Hamilton and on Ius very successful season. Final .Regular ,Season Football StQts 9 Game Totals--Bnd of Regular Seasons ' .RUSH.I~G Player Gms Att Yds Avg TD Con YdsPerGm Darrell Shepherd 8 136 683 5.0 3 0 85 o4 Ryan Mason 9 49 2,43 4.9 2 0 27.0 Steve Hayes 9 58 215 3.7 4 0 23.9 Todd Wa.lker 4 51 177 3.5 2 0 44.2 Horace Griffin_ 6 24 61 2.!> 0 ' 0 1Cl.2 Mark Palumbo 1 11 59 5.4 2 0 59.0 Cecil Bright 8 3 40 13.3' 0 ' 0 5.0 George McAvoy 9 ' 3 32 10.7 0 0 3.,5 Jerry 'Brescia 1 1 26 26.0 0 0 24i.O Jim LaFrance 9 1 8 8.0 0 0 tl.9 Darryl ·r~ggle 2 1 5 s.u 0 0 2.5 Darren Dagostino 1 2 3 LS 0 0 3.0 Pa't Secchiaroli 4 7 3 0.4 0 0 0.9 Jim Poirier 7 17 -28 1 .0 --- Tim llalachovic !l 58 -74 --- 1 1 \:\\'--- - PASSING Player Gms Att Camp Pet Yds TD Int YdsPerGm Tim Va1achovic 9 156 76 48.7 1162 10 8 129.1 Jim Poirier 7 62 ' 33 53.2 455 3 6 65.0 Pat Secchiaroli 4 2 1 50.0 10 0 0 2.5 •rony Amarante 9 2 1 50. 0 22 ·o 0 2.2 Mark Stachowiak 9 4 1 25.0 41 1 0 4.9 SCORING Piayer Gms TO Pat-K Pat-R Pat-P FG Saf Pts PtsPerGm Bob Anderson 9 0 27-30 o-o 0·-0 6-13 0 40 5. 0 Steve Hayes 9 4 (i-Q 0-0 o-o 0-0 0 24 2. 7 Cecil Bright 8 3 o-o 0-0 l-1 0-0 0 20 2. 5 - 2. (l Jim LaFrance 9 3 0-0 Q-0 0-0 0-0 0 18 Mark S~achowiak 9 3 .Q-0 0-0 0-G 0-0 Q 18 2. 0 Darrell Shepherd 8 3 o,..o 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 18 2. 2 Matt Smith 8 3 0-0 o-o 0-0 o-o 0 18 2. 2 George McJ\,voy 9 2 o-o o-o ·o-o o--o 0 12 LJ Bryan . Palumbo 1 2 0-0 0-0 o-o 0-0 9 12 12.0 'i'odd Walker · 4 2• 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 12 3.0 Ryan Mason 9 2 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-Q 0 12 1.3 1·im valachovic 9 1 0-0 1-1 0-0 0-0 0 8 (). 9 'l'im McLebs 9 1 0-Ci 0-0, o-o o-u 0 6 0. 7 Alex Rita 9 1 0-0 0-0 .0-CJ 0-0 0 6 o. 7 ' Matk caruso 9 1 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 6 0. 7 Jim Poirier 7 1 · o--o 0-0 o-o o-o 0 6 0. ~ Mike. VanHorn 9 1 0-() o-o 0-G o-o 0 6 o. 7 Da.n Klinger 8 0 o-o 0-0 o~o o-c l 2 0,2 Soccer ••• continuedfrompages playoffs ·four years m a. row. Next year the · team will · be looking for its fifth straight appearance in post season play. The team would like to thank the. people who came out to Fredonia last Wednesday and especially the parents of the players who made the long trip. The team would also like to thank the people who have supported the- team all year including the parents, faculty, and staff. Good lilck to the seniors in their ft1t11re en- deavors and in the ah.unni game ne~ year.- We would also like to thank Bryan Bakker for the . memories and good times. You'll be missed next year. ALL STUDENTS APPLYING TO MED·ICAL SCHOOL DUR·I NG THE SUMMER OF 1987 Dean Roth will hold an important, General Advising Sesslon in order to discuss the procedures for applylrig to Medical School. Personal and faculty recommendations and MCA T preparation will also be discussed. The biography forrn will be handed ()Ut for youto work on over winter break. Anyone who cannot mak.e o·ne of these meeth1gs should contact Dean 'Roth's office. Tuesday, November 18; 4:30~6:00 ~M BHl04 Wednesday, November 19,1:00-2:00 PM BH104 or 3:00-4:00 PM BHl04 <!tnn.cnr.bitnsis SPORT'S The Union-RPI game played last Saturday night had everything a fan collld ask for. n had. hard hitting, .penalties, scuffles, and goals. However, only RPI can take credit for the _goals. At the end of the game, the Dutchmen were Dn the short end of the stick with a con- vincing 6-1ndefeat. 'The crowd was .still· filling in midway through first peri(Jd. At that pc)int, the score was already 2.0, In the first minute of play, Union came out strong and determined. However., this feeling was quelled after the second minute of play. With Bill Snow in the box for ·charging, RPI took advantage of the powerplay and scored to put them up, 1-o. This was a lead that they would not ,relinquish the rest .of the game. Just nine minutes later, ,the same scenario was reenacted. This time with Snow in the box for elbowing, RPI again took the powerplay and put it. in to in· crease its lead to 2'-0. RPI showed impressive stickhan· dling, checking, and their overall offense was quite in control of the game. Union's defense did play tough, yet with an excessive amount of penalties, goals are expected .. Union's chances to score were seldom but the RPI defense turned away each time a threat , came their way. . The second period did not fair any better for the Dutchmen. Just :17 into the period RPI scored once again. Finally, Union ·had its moment of glory. At 16:36, thE} penalty box Looking at Sports Mark Zimmerman overflowing With play.ers and Union now down by a s-o count, Senior Duane Joyce sc()red on a double assist from Dave Appleby and Nelson Said. Although the crowd had been quiet, up .Wltft now, at Uris point they erupted. For Union it would be their only goal of the game. RPI scored one more goal in the third period to end the scoring at 6~1. This goal also came on.a:powerplay. The third periodhadadifferent twist to it. Tension. No fights developed, but following each whistle there was a brief scuffle. At one point the referee even joined the action .. A Union player was entangled with an RPI player. The referee could not separate the two, so he did wbat any referee would do. He jumped up and onto the two players taking them both to the ice. This was one of the few amusing things that· Union fans had to cheer about during the course of the game, The game was filled with penaltie~ on both sides. At least four of the seven goals came on powerplays. Although Union enjoyed several tw~>-man ad· vantages, RPI put on a penalty killing clinic ending each potential threat. On the other hand RPI moved the puck well on their powerplays and came up big several times. The skating Dutchmen should not dwell on their defeat at the hands of the Engineers as it loosened them up for the up- coming season without scarring their divisional record. Fo-otball Polls 1. Dayton · 9-0 9-0 8-0 9-0 9-0 2. Central Iowa 3. Ithaca 4. Mt. Union 5. Su.squeha nna 6. Augustan a 7. Wise. River Fall 8. Salisbury 9. Buena Vista. 10. Montclair St. 11. UNION 12. Wagner 13. Concordia 14. Centre, Ky. 15. Emory & Henry 16. Coe 17. Hope, ML 18. Denison \19. Washington & Jeff., Pa. 20. Kings Point Darrell Shephard leads Union-offense over Hamilton. 8-0-1 8-1 9-0 9-0 S-1 9-0 8-1 9-1 8-1 9-1 9-0 7-1-1 8-1 9-1 8-1 c co E ~ v ::1 Ill co .... - >- .0 0 .... 0 t::. 0. ·- .....

.. Page8 CONCORDIENSI~ November 13, 1986 Soccer Ousted By Fredonia Again Football Heads Towards . November 13,1986 • • • Dutchmen Defeat Hamilton Second Straight Undefeated ·Season ... 4-1 loss Playoff Bid Looms Season Ends For Soccer Team The men's varsity soccer team ended its season Wed- nesday with a disappointing 4-1 loss to SUNY Fredonia. The loss was in the first round of the NCAA championship playoffs in which only · 24 teams in the only 51 seconds into the half. Jon LaDuke was trying to smother a rebound and Brickler came out of nowhere and kicked the ball away from a f~llen By SID Saturday, 8-1 Montclair (second touchdown,. was named the In the East) hosts Glassboro ECAC's ccrOffensive Player of nation participate. The team traveled to Fredonia early Tuesday morning in preparation for the game. The Dutchmen were surprised they had· to travel since they were ranked second in the New York region tour· nament and Fredonia third. It is customary to play the game at the site of the higher seed. Other factors such as field and at- tendance (actually how much money the NCAA can make) go into the decision. These were both reasons that Coach Bob Magee were given in why the team had to travel. When arriving at the school, the team wondered if .the NCAA ever looked at the facilities of the two schools. Playing on the field was like playing in sand and there was no efficient way to regulate the crowd in terms of collecting admission fees and the crowd was small. Another piece of upsetting news was that the team woUld not be allowed to fly. This year, the NCAA changed the rule on the tran· sportation relative to distance. Previous to this year, if a school had to play a playoff game more than 250 miles away, the NCAA would fly the school to that site. This year, the distance for air transportation is 400 miles. Fredonia is 330 miles away. . LaDuke. The Dutchmen got their goal with 14:33 left in the game when Jim Monks scored with an assist from Howard Fiedler. Monks redirected a shot from Fiedler that went into the left corner of the net. This goal was uplifting and there was thought of a comeback until MacLaughlin scored again with an assist from Boyle to com- plete his hat trick. The time of _ the goal was 11:30 remaining in the game. Bpyle 'made a long,quick pass to MacLaughlin who then scored. This made the scoring final and the Dutchmen lost 4-1. • Union reached the playoffs on a strong season which s~w the. Dutchmen break several school records. The Dutchmen achieved the record of most wins in a season while playing one of the tougher schedules in the region. The final record for the season is 13-2-1. Jon LaDuke, the sophomore goalie, · broke the old record for most shutouts of 7 in a season with 7¥.!. OVer the last four years the Dutchmen have compiled 49 wins with a 49-10-5 record. They also have made the NCAA The first goal of the game was with 15: 48 left in the half. It was scored by Scott MacLaughlin and assisted by Mike Boyle; MacLaughlin's shot was deflected off the defense and went past Jon LaDuke. The second goal of the first half was ij also scored by MacLaughlin E unassisted. The time of the goal D was 5:32 left in the half. Jon 0 LaDuke came out to get the ball e but MacLaughlin beat him to it ;:. · and put it in the net. The score .o at the end of the first half was 2· ~ 0 Fredonia. .g Union celebrated its football centennial last Saturday af- ternoon ~Y defeating Upstate New Yor rival, · · and homestanding, Hamilton, 23-21. The victory gave the Dutchmen their second consecutive un- defeated regular-season and just about asured that the Gamet will receive their fourth• straight invitation to the NCAA Division III championship tournament. Ironically, it was the Con· tinentals who were the last team to defeat the Dutchmen during the regular season. Hamilton turned the trick at . home in the final game of the 1983 campaign, 10-3 in ankle- deep mud. Though the field was again muddy last Saturday, it didn't stop the Dutchmen from capturing their 18th-straight regular-season victory. It marked the firs time in Union's 1011-year football history that it · has put together back-to-back undefeated seasons. It was also the fifth time a Gamet team has gone unbeaten and just the third time that the Dutchmen ·have been perfect. Union will now go through a light week of practice while it waits for an opponent. Ithaca (ranked third in the country ·and first in the East region). will host 8-1 Point this The first goal «;>f the second half was scored by Steve Brickler of Fredonia unassisted Junior George McAvoy speeds around Harr,lilton defender. The Dutchmen triumphed by a score of :23·21. State), and Wagner (third in the the Week. - East) is at Pace. Hamilton scored later in the Union and . · t!'tree-time fourtll quarter o~ ~ 22;.yard run; defending national· champion but ·saw the game slip· away Augustana• ari! the only two when a quarterback sneak on teams (out of 200 NCAA fourth and two from Union's 35 Division III-football playing with under a minute left, was schools) to be invited. to the 16- stopped for a two-yard loww. team tournament in each of the And speaking of defense, the last four seasons. Dutclunen Defenders did an Freshman quarterback Jim outstanding job on senior Poirier came off of the bench to tailback Jim Korfonta. Kor- lead the Dutchmen to a pair of fonta, who came into the game second quarter touchdowns. with 1,105 yards and was Junior quarterback Tim averaging over 150 yards a V alachovic had thrown a nine- game this year, was held to just yard touchdown pass to 30 on 13 carries-including the classmate split end Jim 22-yard TD run. LaFrance in the second quarter Hamilton's offense, which to give Union the lead. was averaging 442.6 yards a However, Hamilton tied the game (232.3 on the groUnd and game before the half. 210.3 through the air), was held Valaehovic, who took over a to 2;5 total yards--25 of which week before the regular season came on the ground fu · 30 opener when starting QB Mike carries. . Gargiulo suffered a season· All•American ·· ca;ndidate, ending broken foot in a defensive end Rich Romer, had scrimmage game, was having fivesolotackles, sixassists, and one of his better days of the two quarterback sacks. Senior sea.son when a third quarter defensive back Steve Alves had sack sidelined him with a five solos, two assists, a pass sprained knee. breakup and a sack while Valachovic had connected on classmate Alex Rita, also a 14 of 23 passes for 184 yards and defensive back, was in on six the score and had helped Union tackles and picked off his third to a 1o-71ead when he drove the pass of the year. team folloWing the second half Alves won the 1986 Ralph H. kickoff. Freshman Bob Rue award as the outstanding Anderson provi~ed the points Union senior . a$ chosen by with a 31~yard f1eld goal. Hamilton's coaching staff. However, after the Dut- The victory giave fity-year chmen's score, Union gave up head coach Al Bagnoli a career their first kickoff return for a record of 45-3 (.882), all at touchdown in at least seven Union. Three of the losses have seasons. The Continentals went been in the playoffs. In 1983, up 14-7 on the 79-yard return. Augustana came back to win Poirier. came on for theStaggBowl in the final three Valachovic with 10 minutes left :miilutes, 21•17, .fu 1984. the in the third quarter. He drove Vikings . won the semi-final the Dutchmen 75 yards in si,lt game, 23-6, and last year, plays when freshman fullback . Ithaca came back for a 13-12 Ryan Mason bulling over from Win in the final 45 seconds. one-yard out for a 17-14 Union Alba~y State (17-7 in 1982), lead. An interception by senior Middlebury (24-21 in 1983), and linebacker Bob LoParo gave the Hamilton (lo-3 in 1984) are the Gamet a first and goal , at only teams to defeat a BagnoU· Hamilton's five. Poirier wasted coached squad during· the no tbne as he found sophomore regUlar season. split end Matt Smity for the The Dutchmen were the five-yard score on the ne~ play. ECAC Team of the Year in 1983 Smith, who had his best day in and shared the Meadowlands- a Garnet uniform with ~ight Lambert . Cup with . Ithaca catches for 139 yards and the following the 1984 campaign.

PageS CONCORDJENSIS, November 13, 1986 0 - 0 .c a (]) ll. -o ::r 0 .... 0 cr -< - .... IJ) (ft c () 7' 3 OJ :::l Soccer Ousted By Fredonia Again Football Heads Towards Playoffs November 13, 1986 • • • Dutchmen Defeat Hamilton Second Straight Undefeated Season . . . 4-l loss Playoff Bid Looms Season Ends For Soccer Team The men's varsity soccer team ended its season Wed- nesday with a disappointing 4-1 loss to SUNY Fredonia. The loss was in the first round of the NCAA championship playoffs in which only 24 teams in the nation participate. only 51 seconds into the half. Jon LaDuke was trying to smother a rebound and Brickler came out of nowhere and kicked the ball away from a fallen LaDuke. The Dutchmen got their goal with 14:33 left in the game when Jim Monks scored with an assist from Howard Fiedler. Monks redirected a shot from Fiedler that went into the left corner of the net. This goal was uplifting and there was thought of a comeback until MacLaughlin scored again with an assist from Boyle to com- plete his hat trick. The time of the goal was 11:30 remaining in the game. Boyle made a long, quick pass to MacLaughlin who then scored. This made the scoring final and the Dutchmen lost 4-1. By SID Saturday, 8-1 Montclair (second in the East) hosts Glassboro State), and Wagner (third in the The team traveled to Fredonia early Tuesday morning in preparation for the game. The Dutchmen were surprised they had to travel since they were ranked second in the New York region tour- nament and Fredonia third. It is customary to play the game at the site of the higher seed. other factvrs such as field and at- tendance (actually how much money the NCAA can make) go into the decision. These were both reasons that Coach Bob Magee were given in why the team had to travel. When arriving at the school, the team wondered if the NCAA ever looked at the facilities of the two schools. Playing on the field was like playing in sand and there was no efficient way to regulate the crowd in tenns of collecting admission fees and the crowd was small. Another piece of upsetting news was that the team would not be allowed to fly. This year, the NCAA changed the rule on the tran- sportation relative to distance. Previous to this year, if a school had to play a playoff game more than 250 miles away, the NCAA would fly the school to that site. This year, the distance for air transportation is 400 miles. Fredonia is 330 miles away. Union reached the playoffs on a strong season which saw the Dutchmen break several school records. The Dutchmen achieved the record of most wins in a season while playing one of the tougher schedules in the region. The final record for the season is 13-2-1. Jon LaDuke, the sophomore goalie, · broke the old record for most shutouts of 7 in a season with 7¥2. Over the last four years the Dutchmen have compiled 49 wins with a 49-10-5 record. They also have made the NCAA Continued on page 7 The first goal of the game was with 15:48left in the half. It was scored by Scott MacLaughlin and assisted by Mike Boyle. MacLaughlin's shot was deflected off the defense and went past Jon LaDuke. The second goal of the first half was ;ij also scored by MacLaughlin E unassisted. The time of the goal ~ was 5: 32 left in the half. Jon ~ LaDuke came out to get the ball ~ but MacLaughlin beat him to it > and put it in the net. The score .o at the end of the first half was 2- ~ 0 Fredonia. -§ Union celebrated its football centennial last Saturday af- ternoon by defeating Upstate New Yor rival, and homestand.ing, Hamilton, 23-21. The victory gave the Dutchmen their second consecutive un- defeated regular-season and just about asured that the Gamet will receive their fourth- straight invitation to the NCAA Division III championship tournament. Ironically, it was the Con- tinentals who were the last team to defeat the Dutclunen during the regular season. Hamilton turned the trick at home in the final game of the 1983 campaign, 10-3 in ankle- deep mud. Though the field was again muddy last Saturday, it didn't stop the Dutchmen from capturing their 18th-straight regular-season victory. It marked the firs time in Union's lOG-year football history that it has put together back-to-back undefeated seasons. It was also the fifth time a Garnet team has gone unbeaten and just the third time that the Dutchmen have been perfect. Union will now go through a light week of practice while it waits for an opponent. Ithaca (ranked third in the country ·and first in the East region) will host 8-1 Kings Point this J .. :::.: ~ The first goal of the second half was scored by Steve Brickler of Fredonia unassisted Junior George McAvoy speeds around Hart;~ilton defender. The Dutchmen triumphed by a score of 23-21. East) is at Pace. Union and three-time defending national champion Augustana· are the only two teams (out of 200 NCAA Division III-football playing schools) to be invited to the 16- team tournament in each of the last four seasons. Freshman quarterback Jim Poirier came off of the bench to lead the Dutchmen to a pair of second quarter touchdowns. Junior quarterback Tim Valachovic had thrown a nine- yard touchdown pass to classmate split end Jim LaFrance in the second quarter to give Union the lead. However, Hamilton tied the game before the half. Valachovic, who took over a week before the regular season opener when starting QB Mike Gargiulo suffered a season- ending broken foot in a scrimmage game, was having one of his better days of the se~son when a third quarter sack sidelined him with a sprained knee. Valachovic had connected on 14 of 23 passes for 184 yards and the score and had helped Union to a 10-7lead when he drove the team following the second half kickoff. Freshman Bob Anderson provided the points with a 31-yard field goal. However, after the Dut- chmen's score, Union gave up their first kickoff return for a touchdown in at least seven seasons. The Continentals went up 14-7 on the 79-yard return. Poirier came on for Valachovic with 10 minutes left in the third quarter. He drove the Dutchmen 75 yards in six plays when freslunan fullback Ryan Mason hulling over from one-yard out for a 17-14 Union lead. An interception by senior linebacker Bob LoParo gave the Garnet a first and goal at Hamilton's five. Poirier wasted no time as he found sophomore split end Matt Smity for the five-yard score on the next play. Smith, who had his best day in a Garnet uniform with eight catches for 139 yards and the touchdown, was named the ECAC's co-Offensive Player of the Week. Hamilton scored later in the fourth quarter oo a 22-yard run, but saw the game slip away when a quarterback sneak on fourth and two from Union's 3~ with under a minute left, was stopped for a two-yard loww. And speaking of defense, the Dutchmen Defenders did an outstanding job on senior tailback Jim Korfonta. Kor· fonta, who came into the game with 1,105 yards and was averaging over 150 yards a game this year, was held to just 30 on 13 carries-including the 22-yard TD run. Hamilton's offense, which was averaging 442.6 yards a game (232.3 on the ground and 210.3 through the air), was held to 2;5 total yards-25 of which came on the ground in 30 carries. All-American candidate, defensive end Rich Romer, had five solo tackles, six assists, and two quarterback sacks. Senior defensive back Steve Alves had five solos, two assists, a pass breakup and a sack while classmate Alex Rita, also a defensive back, was in on six tackles and picked off his third pass of the year. Alves won the 1986 Ralph H. Rue award as the outstanding Union senior as chosen by Hamilton's coaching staff. The victory giave fity-year head coach Al Bagnoli a career record of 45-6 ( .882), all at Union. Three of the losses have been in the playoffs. In 1983, Augustana came back to win the Stagg Bowl in the final three minutes, 21·17, in 1984 the Vikings won the semi-final game, 23-6, and last year, Ithaca came back for a 13-12 win in the final 45 seconW3. Albany State (17-7 in 1982 ), Middlebury (24-21 in 1983), and Hamilton (10-3 in 1984) are the only teams to defeat a BagnoU- coached squad during the regular season. The Dutchmen were the ECAC Team ofthe Year in 1983 and shared the Meadowlands- Lambert Cup with Ithaca following the 1984 campaign. I ,, I

