of on 3 rt CXV, No.17 Faculty Vote Approves .Gel-Time ·schedule By JOANNE McANDREWS~·· On Wednesday, April z, the :Bradley outlined several of facultY approved tbe S()->called the student body's reasons for Gel-Time .proposal. Of the disliking Gel-Time. \Some faculty present and yoting, 58 classes we felt needed to be held percent voted in fav()r ()f th.e every day. A pet:lod in between proposal. . would be detrimental. Also, we Professor Ted Bid~, chair- already have two ·hour classes man of the Faculty E~ecutive under the present system for Committee, explained:, \It is subjects that favor it.\ supposed to provide a period · Bradley noted that at- between classes for students to · tendance seemed low at the digest the material. • .Gel~Tin:ie meeting, and that the vote was will not be implemented until fairly close. the fall of 1987. After one year, He stated, ''A lot of the the ;\.cademic Affairs Council faculty· concern was about the will condu~t a review, and the so-called 'Midweek weekend.' I fac1Jlty will vote whetber to · thoughttbat there was too much continue it or drop it,\ . emphasis placed on the Mid- Before the faculty vote, two week weekend and not enough .members.of the Student Forum, on the academic implications of ·Mickey Bradley an<l Steve . Gel.;Time itself. Even if Gel- Moss, addressed the faculty, Time does get rid of Tuesday presenting · student views and night parties, we are still going ,concerns on Gel-Time. Bick to be living with a completely commented, \I thought per- new academic system, and that sonally that theY handled should have been the heart of · themselves very v;ell. The the issue. Still, I was impressed student body should be .pleased . with how receptive the faculty with. the way their view~! were were toward student views.'' presented.\ . . . Steve Moss, '87, stressed tbe After th~ prese~tat1on by tve resUlts of the stu~ent poll students, discussion am()ng the concerning Gel-Time conducted faculty continued an<! tile pros last year during his presen- and conswere discussed. Stated · tation to the faculty. Bick, \There seemed to be \Students voted 8:1 against some special cases where Gel-Time last year. people liked the present system Approximately 50 percent of the better for certain subjects. But I student body voted in this poll. believe that most voted the way At the meeting this past Wed- that they thought was best for nesday, one faculty member the College as a whole.\' . pointed out that this poll only Bick concluded, \1t's cer- represented half of the students. tainly b~en a controversial I would like to point out that issue, occupying a lCJt of time, there were approximately sixty energy, and effort. I think that faculty members who voted; we saw the political process in perhaps the vote was not truly action here .. .I hope everybody representative of the faculty will pull together and rnake Gel• view. I would have liked to have Time work.\ seen more faculty there.\ Mickey Bradley, '8'7, one of Moss continued, \Mickey and the students appearing at the I presented the student view faculty meeting, coiiliilented on against Gel-Time. I don't think the presentation. Continued on page 3 NeW Advising System to he Implemented Advisor Signature Required By JAYM. GROSSMAN In its meeting of February 20, will bedesignedtomakefaculty the Academic Affairs Council members more knowledgeable passed a new five JX)int advising as advisers. In addition, scheme that is scheduledto take Daniels has also set up a effect during this tenn. The committee consisting of measure was taken in an effort divisional chairmen in order to to improve the nature and assist him with recom· extent of advising by faclllty on mendations and with any campus. problems that might surface. Presently, the advising Daniels .feels that the faculty system consists of a few must \do a lot more to make meetings during a student's requirements and alternatives four years with his-ller adviser. known. A climate like this will However, as William Daniels, permeate thro.ugh to all Dean of Undergraduate Studies, students on campus~\ stated, \We will he>pefully The AAC is also looking .into create an environme!lt where the possibility of a peer advising students are receptive and can system in which upperclassmen make informed chGices. This will be involved in aiding some first initiative is necessary to of the academic decisions of improve advising by faculty at .. freshmen and sophomores. Union., . · ~ One of the Student Forum As a result of the new representatives to the AAC, proposal, faculty W()rkshops Continued on page 3 1877 President Morris will talk with students ;n a Concordiensis spon· sored Panel Discussion on Monday night, April14. rresid.ent Morris Responds to Winter Term Complaints Will Appear at Panel Discussion By JOY RUNYON A panel discussion involving President .. John Mortis ·and Vice-Presidents D'Andrea and Hauser is scheduled for next Monday, April14, at7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel. This panel discussion, sponsored by Concordiensis, is designed to give students the chance tn ask questions of the College's top administrative figures and to · respond to any questions these members of the administration might wish to ask of the stu~nts. As a preface to the panel discussion, President Morris was interviewed. 'l'he issues addressed in this interview do not serve as final answers; rather, students should look at the questions and responses as springboards off of which they can ask deeper questions at the panel discussion. President Morris' overall · view .of last term was ''the same as what the students saw.\ Problems arose a·nd were dealt with as well as possible. It seems that more problems arose than nonnally do in any given term, but the level of contention was an un- derstandable response to the circumstances. In past statements, President Morris referred to last tenn as \the winter of our discontent.\ He expanded upon this by listing reasons for the discontent. Unanticipated over-enrollment in classes, a decrease in the course load of each faculty member, the temporary loss of two of our central buildings- such things made students \very unhappy, and rightfully so.\ In addition, the law raising the New York State purchase age was enacted, and students were confronted with the relatively. new issues of Gei- Time and the proposed new curriculum. President Morris agreed that Schenectady's weather pattern was not exactly a terrific morale booster, either. The continuous \heavy .snow, icing over, more heavy snow,. another icing over, all topped off by a few days .of deep freeze'~ gave the distinct feeling that spring would· never come. In response to the higber enrollment and the reduced course load, the College has hired at least nine additional full-time profe~ors to absorb the potentially negative effects. Through protest, it has been made clear that students are ratner opposed to Gel-Time. President Morris' stance on Gel-Time is a positive one. He is willing to implement the plan and see how it works: \It's worth a try.\ As for the proposed curriculum changes, President Morris is \very impressed\ with the plenary outlines that have been thus far presented to the campus by the Curriculum Sub-Committee. He welcomes the proposed Continued on:page 2 • Apri'IIO, 1986 Fatal C'ar Accident Claims Life of Union Junior By DAVID MARIN On Tuesday night, April 1, four Union College students were involved in a fatal car accident in which junior Thomas A. Baltay was killed. The other students were senior John G. Foster of Rome, New York, who is a brother at Delta Phi Fraternity; sophomore Jane K Kissel, a Sigma Delta Tau sorority member from Saddle River, New Jersey; and freshman Christopher De Puy from New Hampton, New York. The accident occurred in the vicinity of Glens Falls in Warren County at ap- proximately 8 p.m. on April 1. The driver of the van, John Foster, apparently lost control ofthe vehicle' as it came up over a hill on route 149 in Warren County and hit a patch of sand. Foster has been charged with Driving While Intoxicated and Driving at Imprudent Speed, according to the Warren County Sheriff's Department. He was released on his own recognizance. Baltay, who was seated in the rear of the van along with Kissel, was thrown from the van, Kissel was hospitalized in a Glens Falls hospital with multiple bruises and a frac- turedback. Baltay was a mechanical engineering student and a member of the Ski Club. A memorial service was held in · Memorial Chapel on Sunday, April 6. Funeral services were held in Chappaqua, Baltay's hometown, last Friday. April4.

\0 ::r. 0 -+ 0 C\ ...:;: (/l \0 0 .., ..... 1/) (/l ..... ru :::: of on e19 3 CXV, No.17 Faculty Vote Approves Gel- Time Schedule By J().ANNE McANDREWS ·. On Wednesday, April ~. the faculty approved the so-called Gel-Time proposal. Of the faculty present and voting, 58 percent voted in favor of the proposal. Professor Ted Bick, chair- man of the Faculty Exeeutive Committee, explained, c'It is supposed to provide a period between classes for students to digest the material...Gel-Time will not be implemented until the fall of 1987. After one year, the Academic Affairs Council will conduct a review, and the faculty will vote whether to continue it or drop it.\ Before the faculty vote, two members of the Student F\orum Mickey Bradley and Steve Moss, addressed the faculty, presenting student vievrs and concerns on Gel-Time. Bick commented, ''I thought per- sonally that they h!lndled themselves very welL The student body should be pleased with the way their views were presented.' ' After the presentation by the students, discussion among the faculty continued and the pros and conswere discussed. Stated Bick, \There seemed to be some special cases where people liked the present system better for certain subjects. But I believe that most voted the way that they thought was best for the College as a whole.\ Bick concluded, \It's cer- tainly bE:en a controversial issue, occupying a lot ot: time, energy, and effort. I think that we saw the political pro~ess in action here .. .I hope everybody will pull together and make Gel- Time work.\ Mickey Bradley, '87, one of the students appearing at the faculty meeting, commented on the presentation. Bradley outlined several of the student body's reasons for disHking Gel-Time. \Some classes we felt needed to be held every day. A period in between would be detrimental. Also, we already have two hour classes under the present system for subjects that favor it.\ Bradley noted that at- tendance seemed low at the meeting, and that the vote was fairly close. He stated, \A lot of the faculty concern was about the so-called 'Midweek weekend.' I thought that there was too much emphasis placed on the Mid- week weekend and not enough on the academic implications of Gel-Time itself. Even if Gel- Time does get rid of Tuesday night parties, we are still going to be living with a completely new academic system, and that should have been the heart of the issue. Still, I was impressed with how receptive the faculty were toward student views.\ Steve Moss, '87, stressed the results of the student poll concerning Gel-Time conducted last year during his presen- tation to the faculty. \Students voted 8: 1 against Gel-Time last year. Approximately 50 percent of the student body voted in this poll. At the meeting this past Wed- nesday, one faculty member pointed out that this poll only represented half of the students. I would like to point out that there were approximately sixty faculty members who voted; perhaps the vote was not truly representative of the faculty view. I would have liked to have seen more faculty there.\ Moss continued, \Mickey and I presented the student view against Gel-Time. I don't think Continued on page 3 New Advising System to he Implemented Advisor Signature Required By JAY M. GROSSMAN In its meeting of February 20t the Academic Affairs Council passed a new five point advising scheme that is scheduled to take effect during this term. The measure was taken in an effort to improve the nature and extent of advising by faculty on campus. Presently, the advising system ~onsists of a few meetings during a studentts four years with his-her adviser. However, as William Daniels, Dean of Undergraduate Studies, stated, \We will ho-pefully create an environment where students are receptive and can make informed choices. This first initiative is necessary to improve advising by faculty at Union.\ As a result of the new proposal. faculty workshops will be designed to make faculty members more knowledgeable as advisers. In addition, Daniels has also set up a committee consisting of divisional chairmen in order to assist him with recom- mendations and with any problems that might surface. Daniels feels that the faculty must ''do a lot more to make requirements and alternatives known. A climate like this will permeate through to all students on campus.\ The AAC is also looking into the possibility of a peer advising system in which upperclassmen will be involved in aiding some of the academic decisions of freshmen and sophomores. • One of the Student Forum representatives to the AAC, Continued on page 3 1877 ...,1, President Morris will talk with students in a Concordiensis spon· sored Panel Discussion on Monday night, Aprill4. President Morris Responds to Winter Term Complaints Will Appear at Panel Discussion By JOY RUNYON A panel discussion involving President John Morris and Vice-Presidents D'Andrea and Hauser is scheduled for next Monday, April14, at 7:30p.m. in Old Chapel. This panel discussion, sponsored by Concordiensis, is designed to give students the chance to ask questions of the College's top administrative figures and to respond to any questions these members of the administration might wish to ask of the students. As a preface to the panel discussion, President Morris was interviewed. 'l'he issues addressed in this interview do not serve as final answers; rather, students should look at the questions and responses as springboards off of which they can ask deeper questions at the panel discussion. President Morris' overall view of last tenn was ''the same as what the students saw.\ Problems arose and were dealt with as well as possible. It seems that more problems arose than normally do in any given tenn, but the level of contention was an un- derstandable response to the circumstances. In past statements, President Morris referred to last term as \the winter of our discontent.\ He expanded upon this by listing reasons for the dis~ontent. Unanticipated over-enrollment in classes, a decrease in the course load of each faculty member, the temporary loss of two of our central buildings- such things made students \very unhappy, and rightfully so.\ In addition, the law raising the New York State purchase age was enacted, and students were confronted with the relatively new issues .of Gel- Time and the proposed new curriculum. President Morris agreed that Schenectady's weather pattern was not exactly a terrific morale booster, either. The continuous \heavy snow icing over, more heavy snow: another icing over, all topped off by a few days of deep freeze'' gave the distinct feeling that spring would never come. In response to the higher enrollment and the reduced course load, the College has hired at least nine additional full-time profes.sors to absorb the potentially negative effects. Through protest, it has been made clear that students are rather opposed to Gel-Time. President Morris' stance on Gel-Time is a positive one. He is willing to implement the plan and see how it works: \It's worth a try.\ As for the proposed curriculum changes, President Morris is \very impressed\ with the plenary outlines that have been thus far presented to the campus by the Curriculum Slib-Cormnittee. He welcomes the proposed Continued on page 2 April 10, 1986 Fatal Car Accident Claims Life of Union Junior By DAVID MARIN On Tuesday night, April 1, four Union College students were involved in a fatal car accident in which junior Thomas A. Baltay was killed . The other students were senior John G. Foster of Rome, New York, who is a brother at Delta Phi Fraternity; sophomore Jane E. Kissel, a Sigma Delta Tau sorority member from Saddle River, New Jersey; and freshman Christopher De Puy from New Hampton, New York. The accident occurred in the vicinity of Glens Falls in Warren County at apn proximately 8 p.m. on April 1. The driver of the van, John Foster, apparently lost control of the vehicle as it came up over a hill on route 149 in Warren County and hit a patch of sand. Foster has been charged with Driving While Intoxicated and Driving at Imprudent Speed, according to the Warren County Sheriff's Department. He was released on his own recognizance. Baltay, who was seated in the rear of the van along with Kissel, was thrown from the van. Kissel was hospitalized in a Glens Falls hospital with multiple bruises and a frac- turedback. Baltay was a mechanical engineering student and a member of the Ski Club. A memorial service was held in Memorial Chapel on Sunday, April 6. Funeral services were held in Chappaqua, Baltay's hometown, last Friday, April4.

./ i Page2 CONCORDIENS/S, Aprif 10, 1986 Dance-A-Thon This is Michelle Gagnon and she has Muscular Dystrophy. On Aprill2, at 10 p.m., Michelle will be visiting Union to kick-off the 1st Annual MDA Superdance at UniQn College. Students will be dancing to find a cure for MD. If you would like to dance, or lend a hand, please call Stacy at x6951 · you must. have. a sponsor pa-cket in order to dance. With our help, maybe Michelle will be able to dance for herself one day. Morris Explains College PoHcies Continued from page 1 eluding those students who do . budget from last year or before curriculum, because \it will not serve on committees and last year, the student can increase the emphasis on the other decision-making bodies. request a copy from Vice- Humanities,\ an area In which He tries to talk with people on · President for Finance and Union could stand to improve in campus as much as possible. in Administration J()hn Hauser. relation to comparable liberal social situations. However, he . The ideology of the College is arts colleges. But, Pr&Sident admits that he has not seen · very simple, according to Morris added, it isn't really a much activity in the way of President Morris: ''a very reliable comparison; whereas discussions on the curriculum, strong corimrltment to teaching. Union' primary focus is on something in which he thinks I was surprised to see com~ engineering, other liberal arts students should be very in- mentaries last term :Stating that colleges--such as Colgate, volved. the faculty doesn't ~are.\ He where President Morris acted When asked if students had confirms the fact that, on tile in both professorial and ad- access to the goings-on in the whole, tne faculty cares a great ministrative capacities--em- decision-making realm of the deal about teaching and about phasize the humanities inr~uch a College, President Morris said · . the students. way that makes comparison they did, through the student · The Board of TrllStees will somewhat invalid. . representatives, as was men- meet this Thursday, April 10. Students claim to feel' very tioned before. But could a !'resident Morris said that the distanced from the ad- student go to an administrative . topics of discussion will involve ministrative branch at Union-- office and obtain a copy of the the progress of the current not only in the decision-making budget, for example? The . building projects, an process but also in the sense of answer is both yeif and no. If a · examination of the College's sharing thelr general C()ncerns student wanted to find out about endowment holdings, new and. philosophies with tbe ad~ a budget presently in the concerns on campus, and the ministration. President .Morris planning, it would be im-. President's report on last term. contends that the purpose of possible, because \we can't The business and results of this student representatives on haveconfidentialinformationof meeting will be presentecl in a committees and in st11dent this nature floating about.\ future Concordiensis, government is just such a However, according to Last of all, does President purpose: It is . through these President Morris, budgets are Morris see any end to \the agents of student represen- fairly stationary tbings:. the winter of our discontent'~; will tation that the thoughts and only· change one will see from . Union .ever be a \mid-summer concerns of the general st11dent year to year is perhaps a six night's dream\? President population are conveyed to the percent .increase in everything, . Morris responded to this administration. President because the proportions do not . question by saying that he sees Morris Says he enjoys making change. Even with the building a student body with agreat deal contact with all students, in- of the college center and gym, of potential to offer the College. Sophomores Invited to Apply for St. Andrew's Exchange the financial effects will not be If the students use tills potential visible immediately; neither · to the fullest extent, tile College will they have a truly will, without a doubt, achieve tremendous impact, as one the goals set for it by the might expect. Instead, the cost students and the · ad- will be spread out over a period ministration. of about twenty years, the cost \Does hope spring eternal, thus being absorbed by many President Morris?\ classes at Union. Incidentally, if \Yes hope. springs eter- Union College sophomores with a B or better grad~ point average are encouraged to apply for selection as tbe Union College \St. Andrews Exchange Student\ for the 1985-86 academic year. -The selected student will spend his-her junior year abroad at the University of St. ~drews, Scotland•s oldest university. This student will enjcy a full year's scholarship at the University of St. Andrews in- ·cludingtuition, room and board. There will be a meeting to discuss the program on Mon- day, April 21, at 4 p.m. in the Humanities Faculty Lounge. All interested students are urged to attend. Applicants are to submit a 2-4 page essay (typed) evaluating their own education at Union (goals, Sllccesses, fai111res and so forth)-with some attention paid to ways in which a year at St. Andrews might serve them. Students are also asked to submit one letter of . recomB mendation from a faculty member who knows their work well. Applications must be received by Monday, April 28, 1986. A selection committee of faculty members and former exchange students will screen the applications and will in- terview finalists during the week of May 5th. Submit applications to the English Department Office, Humanities 212. St. Andrews is located on the Fife coast, forty-five miles north of Edinburgh and thirteen miles south of Dundee. This university city, while it is easily accessible by public transport and has excellent road com- munications with larger cen· ters, still retains much of its rural and historic flavor. The town of St. Andrews dates back to the sixth century when it contained a stronghold Qf tile Pictish Kings and an influential monastery of the Celtic church. In the eighth century, it became the center of the national cult of St. Andrew. By 1477 th:e bishopric was raised to tlte dignity of an archbishopric so that St. Andrews actually became the ecclesiastical capital of Scotland. The University was created in the fourteenth and fifteentll ,_century. -In 1413 the University was officialzy recognized by Pope Benedict XIII. At the time · of its creation, the University was merely a society of scholars concerned with stlldies in the three faculties of Art, Divinity, and Canon Law. At the end of the Middle Ages, the University was organized into three major colleges-St. Salvator's (1450), St. Leonud's (1812) and St. Mary's (1537). By this time St. Andrews was the principal center of higher learning in Scotland. A special attraction c.f St. Andrews as a university thus . lies in its _history, extending · over five and a half centuries and given reality by the sur- vival of many of its me!li.eval bu-ildings and customs. Its . location also is particlllarly fortunate; and in its si2e it strikes the happy mean, small enough to retain a close sellSe of identity and personal contact, large enough to possess the facilities and to attain the level of academic achievement wllich distinguish the great uiliver- sities. This is an opportunity that every sophomore ought to consider. Against the Trend, One Campus Reopens Its Pub WORCESTER, MA (CPS)- about 80 percent of students are College pubs, victims of the under 21, can cause difficulties liability insurance crisis, have because courts increasingly are been dropping like flies,. but in finding bar owners liable ·for Massachusetts at least, the serving underage patrons. insecticide seems to be wearing Worcester State's trustees off. last June closed the campus pubd Worcester State College precisely because they feare students are celebrating the liability lawyers might come imminent retum of alcohol to after them personally if a bar- campus. And . at One Lancer related incident ended up in Place, Worcester's tavern, court. bartenders are toning their Though One Lancer Place had muscles and oiling their elbows a clean· record, the frightened for renewed action at the beer trustees yanked the tavern's taps-taps that have been dry liquor privileges indefinitely- since last June. But Massachusetts students Bars on campuses throughout · and Gov •. Michael Dukakis Massachusetts and much of the . teamed up thiS year to rescue country closed or went \'Virgin:\ frothy college toasts from ex- last year, when liability in· tinction. · · for an affordable premium provides up to - $1 million in liability coverage. Next, Worcester students arrived at .a board of t~tees meeting last month, promising to be oh-s~very good if they could have their pub back. Specifically, they pronrised to require all student drinkers to provide two forms of iden- tification, sign a tavern log boDk and enforce good behavior at the pub. The college lawyer, in t11m, . drafted a liquor policy to protect the school and its em· ployees from negligence suits. a student wants a copy of the nal...and with good reason.\ Three Former Students Charged with Theft By DAVID MARIN Three recently withdrawn Union College freshmen have been charged with theft and possession of stolen property. Police allege that former students Dean M. Flanagan, Joseph Guerrieri, and John R. Hazelton had in their possession property taken from Williams College in Williamstown, Massachusetts. Schenectady police recovered a television set and a stereo, in addition to a second stereo valued at over one thousand dollars which had ooen pur- chased with a stolen credit card. Guerl'ieri was released on five thousand dollars bail. Hazelton was released on ten thousand dollars ball. Flanagan has not yet been formally charged. Dean of Students ~;oseph Mammola indicated tllat \the students have been separated from the College and are no\ longer students here.\ Summer Jobs! summer Jobs! Summer Jobs! Union College's Academic Opportunity Program CAOP} needs {4) peer tutor counselors for its 4th Summer Program. WHEN: July 6 to August16, }986 WHERE:.Union College RES PONS I BILl TIES: • Attend Summer Orientation session • Tutor is assigned subject area • Provide personal, social and academic counseling • Assist students with orientation to Union • Assist the residence staff • Participate in all required staff meetings • Submit weekly reports and .final evaluations • Assist in compilation of student and tutor counselor final evaluations • Make counseling referrals to appro,prlate personnel • Participate in social, cultural, andr'ecreational activities • Perform other duties as assigned by the Director, Assistant Director and Summer Program Staff. QUALIFJCATIONS: • Upperclass.personor graduate as of June • Capable of tutorirag in one of the following areas: • Chemistry • English/Study Skills • Math (Precalculus& Basic Math) • Minimum 2.0 culmulative index • Minimum 3 .. 0 in subject area you will tutor Applications now available and interviews being arranged in the AOP Office, Baily Hall. For more information contact Wanda· Torres at 370~6115. Application Deadline: Apr illS, 1986 .. surance costs skyrocketed and First; DUkakis created a state many states raised their legal insurance fund · for· drinking age to 21. Massachusetts' bars, both·· on And a pub on campus~ where and off eampus: The state fund \Looks like everything is set to go,\ says Maurice Poirier, spokesman for the college. \The panic that went thrv11gh Massachusetts , .last year has passed. And our lawyer says the t~~e_s~ WO!J'L~.!t~~~t ....... ~ .. ~-.'!'I!. --!!!~!'-~.!\\. !\! -\\· \\\· \\\· .!!\\.!\'!!\\!'.-. ~.'!\\ •• !-!.~.\!!.--.!\!'!.-\\'.\\1\!!'\!'\'.'!\ .. \\'!!1.\!\. ~II!'!.-\\'-·~!!\!.!\!!.-..'!!\-.\!'!\ •. '!!\'!!\!.-!\!'!-~\.-..'!!!'~ .•.. ...;

CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 Gel-Time Schedule to Take Effect in Falll987 Ct~ntinuedfrom page ]:· that the faculty have adequately proven the merits of Gel-Time. We would have liked to have seen more concrete evidence before the decisiDn was made to switch to it. Also, the 'dry-run' of Gel•Time was conducted, but no one -actually saw a mock schedule of what classes would have to be moved and whether students and faculty would be able to choose their own schedules or would be assigned them by tbe com- puter.\ rather have a day in between to prepare for class .. .I would be in favor of any change. From the students' point of view it would be an advantage--it would possibly improve attendance prablems, and create a collegiate atmosphere. College should have a voluntary nature ·- rather than a coercive nature.\ discussed Gel-Time at the department chainnen meeting last term. ''GelaTime does have its merits--the Col.lege-wide 'common time/ time in between classes, and possibly greater flexibility for Science and Engineering majors, as under Gel.;Time there are eight lab periods as opposed to six. \It is important for students to look on the positive side. of the issue and to go into the change with a pQsitive attitude. I think this decision was made with the students' best interests at heart.\ Page3 Steve Moss discusses the recent passage of the Gel· Time proposal by the faculty. 1.. (]) .0 ::> 1.. C> (]) > ro 0 >- .0 0 0 .£: a. In conclusion, Moss stated, \'l'he faculty liked Gel.;Time because it gets rid of the·-Mid~ week weekend, which they believe is detrimental to the intellectual atmosphere. Also, many like it for the reason 'This is the schedule other schools use.' The danger in that is that most of the other schools are on the semester system, not the trimester system ... but overall' · no one can know whether Gel- lfime is better or worse until it's tried ... I would like to say that the faculty were very receptive to the students-this is reflected by th.e close vote.\ Professor William Thomas commented, \I think it is an experiment that should be tried. In the case of Modern Languages, maybe language classes benefit from meeting four times a week, but literature courses are better meeting three times a week because students can't read enQUgh from one day to the next. J ''There were ap- proxunately 60 faculty members who voted; perhaps the vote was not truly representative of. the faculty view.\ Student Investment Fund Established $50,000 available for Financial Investment Training PrQfessor Steve Lyng gave his opinions concerning Gel- Time: \It's a tough issue. My view is a reflection of· the en• virontnent I've come from. This is my first time with the term . system. As a matter of com· parison, I find a three day meeting schedule much more comfortable. \I think Gel-Time would create a more collegiate at- ID()Sphere. The present system is not all that different from higb school, with frequent class meetings. I feel that the present system contributes to at· tendance problems--many students are basically on a three day schedule as it is now. \As a faculty member, there is nothing about the present schedule that I like. I would In Memoriam The entire Union community was ~eatly saddened to learn of the death of Thomas Baltay, Class t~f 1987. We at Con- cordiensis would like to extead . our sympathies tQ the Baltay family, Tom's f·raternity brothers at Delta Phi, and all of his friends. The following is..the ewogy which Tom's brother, ·peter, gave at the memol'ial seni~e last Sunday. 'I'homas Baltay was truly a unique person. As we gather this morning, I only offer my realizations of what we have all lost, and what we have all gained through Tom's ·being. Scientists and Artists are. often completely at odds with one another. Yet such a seemingly insolvable Situation is easily explained by a division of our beings into two parts. The Scientist is verbal and mathematical, logical, analytical, slowly draw_ing conclusions from symbolic facts. An Artist is synthetic and intuitive, progressing in leaps and bounds, instantaneous and tlon-temporal. \We should see which system works better. But maybe Gel- Time won't work at all, at which point we.'ll go back to the old system. One advantage to Gel- Time is the proposed twice a week 'Common time' during which College-wide lectures and meetings would be scheduled.\ Kathy Keaveney, '86, student representative to the Academic Mfairs Council, remarked, ''I think that the faculty made a response to student concern by compromising and delaying the implementation of Gel-Time by one yea~;. ',l.'he administration and faculty Illetnbers were very concerned about the students' negative reaction to Gel-Time. \I would also like to add that another group of people who were open to student opinion were the department chairmen. Professor Seth Greenburg I draw these distinctions only to help us see Thomas better, for he was truly an Artist. No, he didn't paint, or compose music. But he never stopped to proceed step-by-step. The goal of life was, as soon as Tom realized what it was, was to get there as fast as possible. And it changed every day . One day, and I remember it well, ':(om decided to be a windsurfer. I laugh~d. And yet, the next day he was learning to windsurf. And the following week he owned his own wind- surfer. And the following month, not yet satisfied, he built his own windsurfer. Each step was taken not slowly and carefully, as all of us would do it, but witb a gusto and a relish for immediacy. Tom perceived life as perhaps it really is-a pure joy of being alive at each moment-and no more. Thomas loved to play with his brothers and sisters, with his cousins and friends, as perhaps none of us ever do. It is too hard to lose ourselves in our scien- tist's self-consciousness. Yet Tom was never self-conscious. He laughed and rolled ,on the floor, tickling and being tickled, as if there were no tomorrow. And for him there was never A_, $50,000 student-managed investment fund has been established at Union with the purpose of providing students with a managerial decision- making milieu in which to apply theories, concepts, and techniques learned in Union College curses. An initial group of fifteen students will administer the · fund, purchasing and selling financial instruments in an attempt to maximize its assets . Five students per term will be chosen to participate so that an experienced cadre will always comprise a majority of the student group. However, to begin operations fifteen students will be chosen to serve staggered terms. Students whose teqns expire will be permitted to continue to par- ticipate but without voting rights. · The student group will meet to discuss strategies, conduct research on firms, make buy- sell-trade decisions, and con- aqy tomorrow, nor any yesterday. Thomas saw everything in the present. He wasn't one to sit about recalling past adventures. And he didn't scheme and plan for the time to come. He lived for the moment, and for the moment alone- completely unaware of even the existence of time. One day last spring I turned to Tom and asked, \So any plans for summer jobs, yet.\ He looked at me, as though I were speaking Greek, and replied, \Well I'd like to design skis. Or, maybe try building hanggliders.\ And this is what we sorely miss in the loss of our friend, our brother, our son and gran(ison. His ever-smiling face (yes, a grin that none of us will ever forget), his non-stop delight merely in the wonder of being alive. And this is what we should · learn, should take away with us- ·Thomas's gift, the gift of the love of life itself. For as Tom so loved to live, we all must live a little more as he did; for the immediate, the present, the essence that Thomas is-and has left in all of us. Thank you. PLEASE NOTE: This is an announcement of what used to be called a \Third Year Review.\ The Ad- ministration's official term for thi.s is now \Reappointment Review,\ since not all such reviews occur in a faculty member's third year of service. · The committee conducting the Reappointment Review of Professor Frank Coppay in the Department of Modern Languages and Literatures will welcome written comments from any member of th? College Com- munity who .has knowledge of his work. Letters should be addressed to Prof. Anton Warde, Chatr, Department of, Modern Languages and Literatures, H umanlties Building 211. The English Department is conducting a Reappointment Review for Jordan Smith, Assistant Professor of English. The Department would welcome comments concernding Professor Smith's te~ching, service, and scholarship from faculty and students. Please send statements or call Harry Marten, Englts~ Oepartment. The Department of Classics is conducting a Reappointment Review of Mark Tober. Asststant Professor of Classics. Any person who wishes to contribute to the department's investigation should submit statements, either oral or in writing, to Prof. Sorum in the depar.tment. _ . . The Department of History Is currently conducting a Reappointment Review of Professor FaY!! Dudden. All faculty, administrators, and students are Invited to sutrmlt statements to Professor Donald thurston, Chair, Department of History. duct all other activities associated with the operation of the investment fund. 'I'he student group will conduct its activities independently, although it will have access to a faculty Overseer Committee for advice and assistance and will file .periodic reports with the Overseer Committee. The Committee will function much in the manner of stockholders in an investment coporation, and shall require student managers to prepare such management reports as they deem necessary and ap- propriate. The 'faculty com- mittee stresses that while it will require regular performance · reports and will be available for consultation, its participation in the regular activities of the fund will be limited. Recall of student participation in the fund is a prerogative of the Faculty Overseer Committee. Student participation in the fund carries no academic course credit. Income from operation of the fund will be used for purposes which will enhance the program including purchase of reference materials, attendance at meetings and conferences, travel to meet with financial firms, establishing externships with financial firms, and any other purpose as recommended to the Overseer Committee and approved by it. Members to ~be Selected by Ecomonncs Faculty Student members will be selected by the Overseer Committee, which is composed of three members of the faculty of the Department of Economics selected annually by the Chairman of the Depart· ment. The Committee through June 1987 includes Professors Prosper, Phaup and Lewis. The Committee is now accepting _student applications. The ap- plication deadline is April 24, 1986. Successful applicants will be notified by May 9, 1986. Selecti()n of students to the fund will be based on the following: (a) a student must be a full-time undergraduate in good stan· ding; (b) a student must have satisfactorily completed Economics 43 (Financial Analysis); (c) a student must write an application essay. Students wishing tD apply for the investment fund must submit completed application to Professor Prosper, Chairman.of the Department of Economics. The application must cDntain an unofficial transcript and the application essay. The essay must explain ( 1) why the College should entrust $50,000 to you (the applicant) for in· vestment, rather than leaving the money in a broadly diver- sified mutual fund, and (2) what you (the applicant} expect to gai,n from participating in the Union College Student Investment Fund. The Overseer Committee will have sole responsibility to evaluate ap- plications and to select par- ticipants. Continued on page 6 AAC Establishes New· 5-Pt. Advising Scheme Continued from page 1 Kathy Keaveney said, \I think this will involve some student hassle in that they will have to have'their pre-registration form signed by their adviser; however, this is a great benefit to the students in that we will be able to make more informed academic decisions.\ Keaveney added that if students didn't get along with their adviser, they shouldn't feel ashamed or embarrassed about requesting a change .. - At the meeting, it was also suggested that a system of evaluations of faculty advisers be implemented to insure that the most competent advisers would maintain the largest amount of students. Tile five-part proposal, noted below, to enhance the system of faculty advising on CIUDP\IS, was reviewed and appr•ved by the Council to take effeet during the Spring Term. +The Registrar's Offl~e will. maJre preoftgfstration mate.rial available on the Friday before pre-registration week. Students will thus have sufficient time to consider courses for the following term before meeting with their advisers. +All students must obtain the adviser's signature, or that of a designated substitute, on the pre-registration form. No student will be all•wed to pre- register without tJiis sl~ture. +Each department Will post a list of times when each member of the deprtinent will be available for advising during the eighth week of the term. The list will indicate ac~eptable substitutes for any faculty member who will not be avallable. +After pre-registration is completed, the Registrar will send, in the most timely fashion possible, a copy of the student's schedule to the adviser. +After registration is completed, the Registrar will send a copy of the student's fJnal schedule to the adviser.

J.»age4 CONCORDIENSIS, ApriflO, 1986 Campus News Briefs 1986··87 Rege.nts Scholarship Applications Friends of Library to Hold Meeting The annual meeting of the F\riends of the: Union College Library wUl .be beld Friday, April 11, at 8:~0 ,p.m. in the Music Room of Schaffer Library. Jan Ludwig, Chairman of the Philosophy Department, 'IViU talk on his long-time avocation, book ()()llecting. The meeting is 9pen to the public and will be followed by an in· formal reception in the Music · Room. · In celebrationoftlle twentieth anniversary of the founding of tile Friends ()f the Library, tllere will be an eldlibition of a number of the books whose purchase was made possible by flUids provided by the Friends. Term Abroad in China to Begin Next Fall Union College and Nanjing N()rmal University in China have established an exchange program that will begin in the fall of 1986. Under the exchange agreement, fvr every three :students that Union sends to ::Nanjing University for an 11- -week term, Nanjing will send ()ne student to Union for the entire academic year. The first year's program is expected to llave 12 students from Union a11d four students from Nanjing. The exchange agreement was signed recently in N\anjing by Union Vice Pr-esident for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea and Nanjing University :eresident Gui Hong. The exchange program is the second that Union has begun with universities in the Far East. Last ~all, President John Morris signed an agreement with Japan's Kansai University of Foreign Studies; that program also will start this fall. \We think these programs will offer our students a wonft derful opportunity to gam fir• sthand knowledge of a very important .part of the world,'' D'Andrea sald. \We also look forward to the perspectives the Chinese and Japanese students will bring to our campus.\ In the program with Banjing, the Union .students will take a two-credit, intensive Chinese language (!OUrse and a course on Chinese civilization, the latter taught in English; The Chinese students w:ho come to Union can choose from the college's entire curriculum, based on their qualifications. All students will receive full credit for the work completed abroad. Nanjing University was founded in 1902 by Christian missionaries as Jingling College for Women. It now is a coeducati()nal university of 4,000 students with special strengths in foreign languages and arts and music. The Union students will stay in a foreign students dormitory at Nanjing. They will be ac· companied by Donald Thurston, professor Qf political science and history and a specialist in the Far East. Thurston is ex- pected to teach a course in English to Nanjing students. TraJeling Club Plans 2 Trips The Union University Traveling Club is sponsoring a trip to Boston on May 3rd. The roundtrip cost will be $17.00. Along with Quincy Market and Copley Square, take the transit subway system to the Boston Museumof Science or charming Cambridge. Maps including other exciting sites will be available. . The club is also sponsoring .a trip to Salem, MA on May 24th. Tickets will be $19.00. Take this opportunity to visit historic Salem and its historic sites and attractions like the Salem Witch Museum, the House of the Seven Gables, the Steven Phillips Memorial Trust House, and the Peabody Museum. Martin Opened Spring Afinerva Series Harold C. Martin, president of Union College from 1965 to 1974. opened the spring term Minerva lecture series at Union on April 9 at 11:30 a.m. in Schaffer Library Music Room. The Union series, named for the Greek goddess of wisdom, brings to the campus distinguished visitors from around the country. All lectures are free, open to the public, and held at 11:30 a.m. Wednesdays. Martin, who discussed \The Underside of Comedy\ came to Union frcim Harvard, where he was director of general education and lecturer in comparative liberature. After 'leaving· the Union presidency, he became president of the American Academy in Rome. He is past chairman of the Commission on English of the College Entrance Examination Board and a past director of the Council for the Humanities. Most recently he was Charles A. Dana Professor of the Humanities at Trinity College in Hartford, Conn. The Financial Ai-d Offi.c.e would llke to inform New York State residents to be on the iookout for new payment a:r>Piications ·for RegeAts·only recipients. The Higher Education ·services Cor- poration began the· mailing of these new ap· pUcations on March 17, so many of you may have received these while home for term break. The new· · application is streamlined for easy fHing. It will be pre-printed with al'l of the information from your 1985·86 Regents app'l ication, and if this is correct as printed, all that needs to be done is check the box in the upper right hand corner _and sign anc;l date the application. If corrections need to be made, simply follow the directions and sign and date the ap- plication. If you have questions or problems con· cerning the new renewal applications please stop 'by the Financial Aid Office and we will be more than w,i U ing to help you with the form. . . OPEN FOR YOU Take the Step~- .. Enjoy It! ~'21 Club\ Cocktail Lounge In Hale House .lower. lounge ) & Munchies Bar In Hale House Dining Room Tuesdays, Fri-days & Saturdays 21 Club & Munchies 9 p.m.-2 a .. m. Mondays & Wednesdays Coffeehouse wldesserts & beverages Featuring: Spicy Wings $2 25 , • /dozen Skins $)·50 Cheddar & B-acon • Nachos $1 50 ''Hot & Gheezy\ • . ·

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 Campus News Briefs 1986-87 Rege:nts Scholarship Applications Friends of Library to Hold Meeting The annual meeting of the Friends of the Union College Library wiH be held Friday, April 11, at 8:00 p.m. in the Music Room of Schaffer Library. Jan Ludwig, Chairman of the Philosophy Department, will talk on his long~time avocation, book collecting. The meeting is ~pen to the public and will be £ollowed by an in~ formal reception in the Music Room. · In celebration of the twentieth anniversary of the founding of the Friends of the Library, there will be an exhibition of a number of the books whose purchase was made possible by funds provided by the Friends. Term Abroad in China to Begin Next Fall Union College and Nanjing Normal University in China have established an exchange program that will begin in the fall of 1986. Under the exchange agreement, fDr every three students that Union sends to Nanjing University for an 11- week term, Nanjing will send one student to Union for the entire academic year. The first year's program is expected to have 12 students from Union and four stlldents from Nanjing. The exchange agreement was signed recently in Nanjing by Union Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea and Nanjing University President Gui Hong. The exchange program is the second that Union has begun with universities in the Far East. Last fall, President John Morris signed an agreement with Japan's Kansai University of Foreign Studies; tha-t program also wHl start this fall. \We think these programs will offer our students a won- derful opportunity to gain fir- sthand knowledge of a very important part of the world,\ D'Andrea said. \We also look forward to the perspectives the Chinese and Japanese students will bring to our campus.\ In the program with Hanjing, the Union students will take a two-credit, intensive Chinese language course and a course on Chinese civilization, the latter taught in English. The Chinese stlldents who come to Union can ch0ose from the college's entire curriculum, based on their qualificati0ns. All studeFits will receive full credit for the work completed abroad. NaFijing University was founded in 1902 by Christian missionaries as Jingling College for Women. It now is a coeducational university of 4,000 students with special strengths in foreign languages and arts and music. The Union students will stay in a foreign students dormitory at Nanjing. They will be ac- companied by Donald Thurston, professor of political science and history and a specialist in the Far East. Thurston is ex- pected to teach a course in English to Nanjing students. Traveling Club Plans 2 Trips The Union University Traveling Club is sponsoring a trip to Boston on May 3rd. The roundtrip cost will be $17.00. Along with Quincy Market and Copley Square, take the transit subway system to the Boston Museum of Science or charming Cambridge. Maps including other exciting sites will be available. !he club is also sponsoring a tnp to Salem, MA on May 24th. Tickets wil!l be $19.00. Take this opportunity to visit historic Salem and its historic sites and attractions like the Salem Witch Museum, the House of the Seven Gables, the Steven Phillips Memorial Trust House, and the Peabody Museum. Martin Opened Spring Minerva Series Harold C. Martin, president of Uaion College from 1965 to 1974. opened the spri:ng term Minerva lecture series at Union on April 9 at 11:30 a.m. in Schaffer Library Music Room. The Union series, named for the Greek goddess of wisdom, brings to the campus distinguished visitors from around the country. All lectures are free, open to the public, and held at 11:30 a.m. Wednesdays. Martin, who discussed \The Underside of Comedy\ came to Union from Harvard, where he was director of general education and lecturer in comparative liberature. After leaving the Union presidency, he became president of the American Academy in Rome. He is past chairman of the Commission on English of the College Entrance Examination Board and a past director of the Council for the Humanities. Most recently he was Charles A. Dana Professor of the Humanities at Trinity College in Hartford, Conn. The Financial Aid Office would like to inform New York State residents to be on the lookout for new payment applications for Regents-only recipients. The Higher EducaHon Services Cor- poration began the· mailing of these new ap- plications on March 17., so many of you may have received these whil·e home for term brea:k. The new application is streamlined for easy filing. It will be pre-printed with all of the information from your 1985-86 Regents application, and if this is correct as printed, all that needs to be done is check the box in the upper right hand corner and sign and date the application. If corrections need to be made, simply follow the directions and sign and date the ap- plication. If you have questions or probl·ems con- cerning the new renewal applications please stop by the Financial Aid Office and we wi II be more than willing to help you with the form. .... ·.· di~~~~t~~p.,m. 4at~ Nif$,a;it~s' ........... ··.. . .··.· ..•. : ~<ftt •. ril./c~{~O 1'-·tn. ' ·Apri.ll4~PiJc,lnath·~rt:fHt-4-.:.sP.~I'fl;lQ,p~m. · · ts:F\ Horni'vtftres.t..~vnw~u;ao·P::rn• A~prill;$' f'ihort<tth~, HHLt.~:P<!nAOp.m. F•Im; YovnsPnctorstnt..41;(e,S.aOl&-<7,'9, np.m. 21 Ctvp, HHt>l~>--9p .. m,•2 a.m.· UM,er 21 CttJP., Old Chq,pet-:.9 p<m~-2 aA'l'h .. APf'H.l6-'PhoJ'l<tt.f\~m, HHL.t..c~5p.t'f1>l0p.m •. Min~4<'Va Hovr with RU$$eH Petersorr, SS1H6:-ll :3(1 a,m. VfiJ(irta1rs, M~morf.al Chap~f-.l2p.m.•1 p,m; · FHm: Ftive!Easy Piecel>-*'free*, SSOM,.;-7,9, n,p,m. CafE! .• HitiQ~~9p,m,.,l2:a¥m~ · ·· • ,·:~:·-~ ,:_,' v :,. :· ----~- •• ··- • ' • ' •••• OPEN FOR YOU Take the Step- Enjoy It! \21 Club\ Cocktail Lounge / In Hale House Lower Lounge & Munchies Bar In Hale House Dining Room Tuesdays, Fridays & Saturdays 21 Club & Munchies 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Featuring: Spicy Wings $2 25 • /dozen Mondays & Wednesdays Coffeehouse w/desserts & beverages ~~~~a~ & Etacon $1.5 0 Nachos ''Hot & Cheezy, $1.50 I j i \ i \ 1 r1 .. , ' I I 1 . ' I' ~

): \Herb wo·n't be th:ere - ·but if he is he should be your Dad.'' Parent's Weekend May .9, 10 ,11 · Annual Student Spring Phonathon April 14-17 5:30-9:00 ·Mon.-Thurs. Get your teams in now._ There is limited space. . Food, Cash Prizes and a FREE Long Distance Phone Can. For more infor see your RaA. or Call x6174 CONCORDIENS1S, A11ri/JO, 1986 Introducing ••• GBakei}r· TeaGR.oom • Cand~· Gif~ Gounnet Specialties 518· 393· 5592 A Country French Gourmet f:o()(i, Candy and Gift Store • •• · Featuring: Snacks, Baked Goods, Na1ural90 soda Gourme,t Pizzas i.ncluding a Sausage bread birthday cake for dips. · · Someone Spe_ciaJ .tiJ.e l.i.$ljs enctles$ 1 0% discount for Union College Students Via Venato Cafe Roma Appian Way invites Union College Students Special $5.00 Tortellini with 3 choices of sauces Alfredo, Bolognese, Red free glass of beer or wine included OR $1.00 OFF of anything on Regular Menu 1841 VanVranken Ave. PageS Summer Fall Spring WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS 0 , .xFoR· 0 .. suMMER . ~~-=~· ~--~1=9=86~: Full Academic Years In • Oxford University • LS.E. \ •· St. Andrews, Scotland ! U.S. -credits will be transferred -I through Hampden·Sydney 1 · College, founded in Virginia by James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option. The Director of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad(in Britain) is the At. Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLEK, J.D., Admissions Director CQEA/ WISC, Rm 53, 158 W, 81 St., NY,NY, 10024. (212. 724·0804/724·0136). (EO/AA) ~~· .DAMBROSE \~E-\\ CLEANERS t51'!fVAN VRANKEN AVE., SCHENECTADY, NY 1.2308 (518) 374-5193 Complete Fabric Care Services EsT. 1927 The Prime Rib Make Reservations Early for Parents Weekend: ':Jtore than a fine steak bouse\ . 104 State.Street, Schenectady, New York 12305 Phone 518/382-12!04 May 9, 10, 11

I . l I i ~ l I ' j l 1 ll j I ,. ~ ' ! l ? .j I , I ' I· I l ' I ' I : i ll r 1 ' : I t 1 , I I i j \ ~! I I f ,·i ' \Herb won't be there - ·but if he is he should be your Dad.\ Parent's Weekend May 9, 10 ,11 Annual Student Spring · Phonathon April 14-17 5:30-9:00 Mon.- Thurs. Get your teams in now. There is limited space. Food, Cash Prizes and a FREE Long Distance Phone Call. For more infor see your R.A. or Call x6174 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 Introducing ... w GBake~· TeaGRoom ·Candy· Gif~ Gourmet Specialties 518 · 393 · 5592 A Country French Gourmet Food, Candy and Gift Store • •• Featuring: Snacks, 1 0% discount Baked Goods, Natural90 soda for including a birthday cake for Someone Special Gourmet Pizzas Sausage bread Union College dips. Students the I istjs end.less Via Venato Cafe Roma Appian Way invites Union College Students Special $5.00 Tortellini with 3 choices of sauces Alfredo, Bolognese, Red free glass of beer or wine included OR $1.00 OFF of anything on Regular Menu 1841 VanVranken Ave. PageS Summer Fall Spring WASHINGTON ORLONDON . INTERNSHIPS I 1 OXFORD su1~:flR ! I - Full Academic Years In , • Oxford Un·iversity • L.S.E. • St. Andrews, Scotland U.S. credits will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded in Virginia by : James Madison in 1776. i Graduate work is an option. The Director of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad(in Britain) is the Rt. H on. The Lord Belotf, O.Litt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLEK, J.D., Admissions 0 irector COEA/ WISC. Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St. NY,NY, 10024. (212· 724-0804/724-0136). (EO/M) ~~~ DAMBROSE :l~~ ~·,·\' ClEANERS 151; VANVRANKEN AVE., SCHENECTADY, NY 12308 (516) 374-5193 Complete Fabric Care Services EST. 1927 The Prime Rib Make Reservations Early for Parents Weekend: \Jfore than a fine steak bouse\ 104 State Street, Schenectady, New York 12305 Phone 518/382-1204 May 9, 10, 11

Page6 CONCORDIENSJS, April JO, · 1986 FEATURES -Recalling Field Experiences In c:: c:: <ll co ::.. +- 1.. Ill ~ ::.. .0 0 .... 0 .;::; 0.. Barbadian Sugar Cane Cutters after .a hard days work in the fields. Looking Back ... By PATRICK DICERBO Then, I was not prepared for what was in store. Now I would be. The experience was one of the most beneficial I have ever taken part in. It was an op- portunity of a lifetime. Unlike other terms a broad, there was an almost unlimited amount of freedom to conduct research in any way the student saw fit, within the bounds of ethics. Though the days and weeks were quite long, I regret not making use of any extra time I had to know the people of my community better. A simple visit te one or two families whom I had not met would have been a productive daily routine. Though I· had easily established many \surface\ relationships, and \functional\ friends I felt that I did not get to know enough people well enough. The exceptions were the fishermen and the two subjects of my problem focus, both return migrants who have lived abroad. Although I spent relatively little time with the fishermen, they accepted me, and I them with no reservations. The reasons for the quickly cemented friendships were two: I spent time with them in their own element, meaning I fished on several occasions, drank in their rum shops, vomited from seasickness on their boats and shared the hollow fear of a silent engine in rough seas, boat drifting toward England helplessly. The second reason was that I acted as one of them, not as a rich white man from America, but as a person living in Barbados under much the same conditions as they did. J encountered problems with my own village because I was not sifficiently interested in the people because I wrongly felt I had nothing in common with them. I reached this conclusion for many people were old; and they were sheltered, meaning extremely rural (St. Lucy). These prejudices proved to be .inaccurate and iU..founded. Mr. B showed me· quickiy and clearly .and eaiity u.&t old was_ far from dead. He and .Mr. A, my other subject in my problem study, had both been to England and had led colorful lives in- deed. Their experiences were fascinating. They had each spent in the neighborhood of twenty years abroad, after which they had returned to Barbados. I can only say that if I was to participate in this program again, I would try to establish more friendships with people in my community. Establishing these friendships would have made me feel like less of an outsider, as well as made both papers easier to write and probably more interesting and informative to read. Barbados: A Shocking Introduction By ALEX STEPHENS The plane touched down at Grantley Adams International Airport in Barbados and taxied to the terminal. As I descended the steps, I got my first sen- sation of the warm Caribbean air and intense sun. I was nervous, as I had been in the days ·and. hours preceding my - disembarkment in Barbad(}s. I had only a vagUe notion of what the next ten weeks had in store for me. I had visited the Caribbean before but not for the purpose of an anthropological field study. My only preparation was an Urban Anthropology class and several articles that were recommended by my professor. It was comforting to know that some of the other students were in the same category as I, but the size of such a project was intimidating if not foreign. Suddenly, complete isolation and sub- mersion in a different culture did not seem like an enjoyable way to spend the winter months. This thinking would pass. I just did not know when. I moved through customs, the officer mumbling something about student visas, followed by essentially a non-existent customs procedure, and a taxi ride that would deter anyone from being a pedestrian on the same road. I arrived at the Bellairs Research Institute of McGill University in time for my first dip in the warm water before a dinner of flying fish and plantains, a meal that would become my primary diet. The week and a half that followed was spent in day trips, traveling around the island to acquire information for daily assignments that were to help in- assimilating into the culture, and to learn-the lay of the land. The stay at the institute was an enjoyable one but, rather ~ . . ' . · .. '~-· So ' ... abruptly, it ended. I packed up my belongings and, with some remorse, moved to my place of study, to the village that would be my home for the ,next nine weeks. I was given ·an outline for a community study and told it was due in five weeks. The most difficult part of the program was now upon me. I had this enormous amount of information to collect through varied techniques, such as interviews, household census, and active participation, but when I got to my village I was paralyzed, afraid to go outside. I misinterpreted stares of curiosity for hostility, and developed a more than common interest in any novel I could find. I was suffering from the insidious psychological disorder referred to by anthropologists as \culture shock.\ We were told to farce ourselves to get out into the community, that only by talking to people would WP feel more at· ease. It worked. The empty feeling subsided and my research began to improve as did my rapport with the people in my community. As the. days passed, I gradually became accustomed to the daily routine of the world around me as well as developmg my own routine. The mornings were usually devoted to visits to the village. I would make the quarter of a mile trek through the sugar cane field along a muddy cart path and arrive at Mount Gay Village. I would stay as long as I could; often fighting the desire to return to my room and engulf myself in a book. I would return to the plantation house where I lived and spend several hours writing up my field notes, work on my map of the community or write in my journal. I soon became known in the village and was warmly greeted. I befriended an old woman who, despite her many ailments, was constantly in a cheerful mood, an elderly blind man who took great delight in playing his electric guitar for me and several members of a family of sixteen. After many hours of typing and reorganization of my notes, I completed my community study. With it came a well rounded understanding of a culture vastly different from Investment Fund ••• Continued from page 3 Fund Established by Parents of Alumili The Union College Student Investment Fund was established by Heinz and Ruth Eppler by otitdght gifts to Union College. Mr. and Mrs. Eppler are the parents of two Union alumni, Nancy Eppler Wolff {'75) and David Eppler ('82}. The Eppler$ served as co- my own. I cut sugar cane, at~ tended an open air church service, and spent nights in the rum shops with the men of the village, where they chatt.ed and argued everything from women to politics. These and the many other experiences I ac- cumulated gave me an intimate knowledge of. Barbados. The remainder of my stay was devoted to my second project which consisted of in· depth interviews with several Barbadian men who had spent time in America as migrant farm. workers. This experience gave me real understanding for the skill of interviewing. As the final days drew near, I felt at home in Barbados. I could find my way easily on the bus system. I had developed many friendships in and out of my community · and became very close to the family I lived with. r • I left the Island rather stunned at how fast the term had passed. Upon my arrival at home I was bombarded with questions of what it was like living in a third world society for so long. Many of the questions came from people who . initially responded to my intended term abroad with the remark,-\What are you going to study, sun tanning?\ They coUld not comprehend exactly what an anthropological study incorporated. I had trouble myself trying to explain it -to them. Now, they could not listen .to iny description of my ex- perience without losing interest rapidly. It was hard to blame them. I had been told that a field study tends to be an esoteric experience and rather personal, but still I expected them to be interested. For the most part I made my stories of Barbados brief and sugar coated. Yet, there will ·always be a storehouse of memories, of mental images, of the island and its people: the flowing fields of sugar cane, the naked pair of young twins · running around a small rum shop, the aging toothless woman carrying provisions on her head, the sound of laborers cutting the stocks of cane, the congeniality of the people, the sudden downpours of rain, and the orange sunsets. chairpersons of the Union College Parents Committee 11 and Mrs. Eppler was elected a Trustee of the College in 1982. The fund presents an out- standing opportunity for students at Union College to gain valuable managerial and financial decision-making experience, to research economic data, to meet with financial managers in business, to attend seminars led by successful· business leaders, and to actually manage a substantial financial portfolio. Term Abroad Programs Falll986 The first orientation sessions are bei'ng held for the following programs: JAPAN-Tuesday,Aprill5, at 4:30 in HU 113 .. soc MI:D...,-Wednesday, April16, at 4:30 in HUOl4 ITALY-Thursday, April17, at4:30 in HU 014 Because Important information· win be discussed and necessary forms distributed, please make every effort to attend. In case you a·re unable to come, please call the Terms Abroad office x 6002 to arrange to pick up the nece!;sary forms. DEADLINE NOTICES: All faUtermdepositsdweby Frk,lay:; Aptil11 All Term Attroacl applications tor winter.:term d,.-..e by MiY 1 . . • .. · .. ·~· .~~-~~··· ....... , .. .~ ., .·., ... .

Page6 CONCORDJENS!S, Apri/10, 1986 FEATURES -Recalling Field Experiences In E <o c: <l> ell >. .... I.. ro ~ >- .0 0 - 0 .c Q. Barbadian Sugar Cane Cutters after a hard days work in the fields. Looking Back ... By PATRICK DICERBO Then, I was not prepared for what was in store. Now I would be. The experience was one of the most beneficial I have ever taken part in. It was an op- portunity of a lifetime. Unlike other terms abroad, there was an almost unlimited amount of freedom to conduct research in any way the student saw fit, within the bounds of ethics. Though the days and weeks were quite long, I regret not making use of any extra time I had to know the people of my community better. A simple visit to one or two families whom I had not met would have been a productive daily routine. Though l had easily established many \surface\ relationships, and \functional\ friends I felt that I did not get to know enough people well enough. The exceptions were the fishermen and the two subjects of my problem focus, both return migrants who have lived abroad. Although I spent relatively little time with the fishermen, they accepted me, and I them with no reservations. The reasons for the quickly cemented friendships were two: I spent time with them in their own element, meaning I fished on several occasions, drank in their rum shops, vomited from seasickness on their boats and shared the hollow fear of a silent engine in rough seas, boat drifting toward England helplessly. The second reason was that I acted as one of them, not as a rich white man from America, but as a person living in Barbados under much the same conditions as they did. I encountered problems with my own village because I was not sifficiently interested in the people because I wrongly felt I had nothing in common with them. I reached this conclusion for many people were old, and they were sheltered, meaning extremely rural (St. Lucy). These prejudices proved to be inaccurate and ill•founded. Mr. B showed me quickly and clearly and easily that old was far from dead. He and Mr. A, my other subject in my problem study, had both been to England and had led colorful lives in- deed. Their experiences were fascinating. They had each spent in the neighborhood of twenty years abroad, after which they had returned to Barbados. I can only say that if I was to participate in this program again, I would try to establish more friendships with people in my community. Establishing these friendships would have made me feel like less of an outsider, as well as made both papers easier to write and probably more interesting and informative to read. Barbados: A Shocking Introduction By ALEX StEPHENS The plane touched down at Grantley Adams International Airport in Barbados and taxied to the terminal. As I descended the steps, I got my first sen- sation of the warm Caribbean air and intense sun. I was nervous, as I had been in the days and hours preceding my disembarkment in Barbados. I had only a vague notion of what the next ten weeks had in store for me. I had visited the Caribbean before but not for the purpose of an anthropological field study. My only preparation was an Urban Anthropology class and severa~ articles that were recommended by my professor. It was comforting to know that some of the other students were in the same category as I, but the size of such a project was intimidating if not foreign. Suddenly, complete isolation and sub- mersion in a different culture did not seem like an enjoyable way to spend the winter months. This thinking would pass. I just did not know when. I moved through customs, the officer mumbling something about student visas, followed by essentially a non-existent customs procedure, and a taxi ride that would deter anyone from being a pedestrian on the same road. I arrived at the Bellairs Research Institute of McGill University in time for my first dip in the warm water before a dinner of flying fish and plantains, a meal that would become my primary diet. The week and a half that followed was spent in day trips, traveling around the island to acquire information for daily assignments that were to help in· assimilating into the culture, and to learn the lay of the land. The stay at the institute was an enjoyable one but, rather abruptly, it ended. I packed up my belongings and, with some remorse, moved to my p·lace of study, to the village that would be mv home for the next nine weeks. I was given an outline for a community study and told it was due in five weeks. The most difficult part of the program was now upon me. I had this enormous amount of information to collect through varied techniques, such as interviews, household census, and active participation, but when I got to my village I was paralyzed, afraid to go outside. I misinterpreted stares of curiosity for hostility, and developed a more than common interest in any novel I could find. I was suffering from the insidious psychological disorder referred to by anthropologists as \culture shock.\ We were told to force ourselves to get out into the community, that only by talking to people would WP feel more at ease. It worked. The empty feeling subsided and my research began to improve as did my rapport with the people in my community. As the days passed, I gradually became accustomed to the daily routine of the world around me as well as developing my own routine. The mornings were usually devoted to visits to the village. I would make the quarter of a mile trek through the sugar cane field along a muddy cart path and arrive at Mount Gay Village. I would stay as long as I could, often fighting the desire to return to my room and engulf myself in a book. I would return to the plantation house where r lived and spend several hours writing up my field notes, work on my map of the community or write in my journal. I soon became known in the village and was warmly greeted. I befriended an old woman who, despite her many ailments, was constantly in a cheerful mood, an elderly blind man who took great delight in playing his electric guitar for me and several members of a family of sixteen. After many hours of typing and reorganization of my notes, I completed my community study. With it came a well rounded understanding of a culture vastly different from Investment Fund ••• Continued from page 3 Fund Established by Parents of Alumni The Union College Student Investment Fund was established by Heinz and Ruth Eppler by outright gifts to Union College. Mr. and Mrs. Eppler are the parents of two Union alumni, Nancy Eppler Wolff ('75) and David Eppler ('82). The Epplers served as co- my own. I cut sugar cane, at- tended an open air church service, and spent nights in the rum shops with tfue men of the village, where they chatted and argued everything fr@m women to politics. These and the many other experiences I ac- cumulated gave me an intimate knowledge of Barbados. The remainder af my stay was devoted to my second project which consisted of in- depth interviews with several Barbadian men wha had spent time in America as migrant farm workers. This experience gave me real understanding for the skill of interviewing. As the final days drew near, I felt at home in Barbados. I could find my way easily on the bus system. I had developed many friendships in and aut of my community and became very close to the family I lived with. I left the island rather stunned at how fast the term had passed. Upon my arrival at home I was bombarded with questions of what it was like living in a third world society for so long. Many of the questions carne from people who initially responded to rny intended term abroad with the remark, \What are you going to study, sun tanning?\ They could not comprehend exactly what an anthropological study incorporated. I had trouble myself trying to explain it to them. Now, they could not listen ,to iny description of my ex- perience without losing interest rapidly. It was hard to blame them. I had been told that a field study tends to be an esoteric experience and rather personal, but still I expected them to be interested. For the most part I made my stories of Barbados brief and sugar coated. Yet, there will always be a storehouse of memories, of mental images, of the island and its people: the flowing fields of sugar cane, the naked pair of yo110g twins running around a small rum shop, the aging toothless woman carrying provisions on her head, the sound of laborers cutting the stocks of cane, the congeniality of the people, the sudden downpours of rain, and the orange sunsets. chairpersons of the Union College Parents Committee~> and Mrs. Eppler was elected a Trustee of the College in 1982. The fund presents an out- standing opportunity for students at Union College to gain valuable managerial and financial decision~making experience, to research economic data, to meet with financial managers in business, to attend seminars led by successful business leaders, and to actually manage a substantial financial portfolio. Term Abroad Programs Fall1986 The first orientation sessions are being held for the following programs: JAPAN-Tuesday, April15, at4:30 in HU 113 SOCMED-Wednesday, April16, at4:30 in HU 014 ITALY-Thursday, April17,at 4:30 in HU 014 Because important information will be discussed and necessary forms distributed, please make every effort to attend. In case vou are unable to come, please call the Terms Abroad office x 6002 to arrange to pick up the necessary forms. DEADLINE NOTICES: All fa II term deposits due by Friday, April 11 A.\ Term Abroad applic:ations for winter term due by May 1 [ ! I

CONCORDIENSIS, A.pri/10, 1986 Page7 .FEATURES Barbados: Student Perspectives- \Let' s Talk\ By ROBBI,E BLINKOFF It is winter, one thousand nine-hundred .and eighty-six years (approximately) after one man was crucified so others could praise him. · This same said winter of 1986, a large space craft, nicknamed the \Challenger blew up· in mid-air, killing seven, and spraying 2 billion American dollars of space equipment over part of the water that covers three-quarters of our Earth's surface (this part happened to be the Atlantic). This same said winter, riots spanned the, globe. In South Africa people are fighting \Apartheid''-whatever that is. Haitians oust a leader who has- dictated their lives for cen- turies, and people in the Phillipines run Ferdinand Marcos and his r~girne into exile, in order to restore \Democracy.\ · And on a small coral is~and in the West Indies, a twenty year old aspiring college student is in conversation with newly acquainted friends, miles from his home. \Is our island going to sink?'' said one 'native,' while glaring for an answer from the white educated man perched on a hillside. I slowly leaned back and thought of the things that had been happening in the world. Then I pondered my little knowledge .of geology, and the Miami Vice episode of the night before, and said, \What do you think?'' in the most cautious and pleasing voice possible; because in fact- I was not sure. The only reply was, \It could h h . ht'l\ . appen thoug . . . . rxg . , m the questioning tone reserved for grammar school students who are intimidated by tlleir teachers. At this point I could have said, · \Well Bob Speed, the single man most famous for the geologic discoveries in this area S'ays ... \ but I didn't, because they certainly had no knowledge of this \ever ~o famous man.\ (In fact, at this time, I too had no knowledge of the·man.) . Instead, I politely pulled out my \amateur anthropologist badge\ pinned it to my breast pocket, leaned forward, clasped my hands, let the \notes and queries on Anthropology, every thing written by Mintz, and the little else I knew of Margaret Mead, out of my head and said, \Let's talk.\ In this crazy, mixed up muddled up world, where space shuttles blow up, and entire governments are overthrown in the span of only two months, it is nice to see some beauty behind the blemishes. Perhaps all of this cynicism is a bit too much, but there is a reason behind it. \The trivial helps reveal the sublime, ... Sometimes the things one calls little are big, larger than they appear-or than one suspects. Sometimes with the passing of years, they turn out to be enormous.\ -Walter Teller \Thoughts and Day;, The American Scholar Winter 1966-67 This is my point behind the cynicism, and behind my past ten weeks at Union College in Barbados. The beauty of all my trip, the serenity behind the facade of Anthropological and· Psychological insights, were those simple moments when I took of£ my \amateur Anthropologist badge,\ really sat back and said: \Let's talk.\ It finally happened, I can say. I finally appreciated a people who can belieye and rely on the triv;al and simple to run their lives. What is it Thoreau said? My whole trip can be summed up in one experience. It was late at night, a full moon shone, and I sat in a cow pasture with a local Rastafarian. After hours of talking, about everything from love to politics, th~ two of us came to an interesting con- clusion. Although we lived hundreds of miles away from each other, and that our skin color, hair style and other personal practices were quite different, at the heart we were the same people. The next day the space shuttle, deemed .the \Challenger exploded over the Atlantic. And as people mourned, all I could think of was the night before and talking to the Rasta man. I could only question why people don't first start by challenging the \stars\ that are on our earth. Student experiences the Barbadian family unit. Assessment of Tinie in Barbados By MARGARET HESS When I boarded the plane in New York for Barbados,· my mind was filled with ap- prehension and the stress of not knowing what to expect. Would I be accepted into a Bajan community'? Do Bajans dislike Americans? Will they be willing to answer all my questions? What will it be like being the only white person in a village? All these questions and more were humming through my mind. I realized that some rejection was inevitable but that even- tually someone would accept me. One of the turning points of my stay happened in the beginning of February when I was walking up the long row of houses in my village after spending the day at the Institute (Bellairs Research Institute). I was obviously tired because my walking pace was slow and the books in my bag were getting heavier and heavier with each step. A voice began calling me. \White girl come here.\ One of the women that I had passed numerous times on the street, whose name I did not know, called me over to her door step. There were two women and a man sitting on the front stoop chatting. My first reaction was to think, 'oh, they probably think I'm lost or something.' We began to con- verse about the length of my stay, and why I was in the village. This topic was nothing new to me, since I had had to elaborate on this subject more times than I could ever recall. Yet, this conversation took a new turn. They wanted me to come for dinner and ·spend the evening with their family. Another thing happened, instead of me asking them endless· questions, as is the case when an amateur anthropologist is trying to learn as much as possible about every aspect of life in a village, they were asking me about my life! \What is it like where you live?\ \Are people as friendly as you are?\ \What does your house look like?\ After leaving the two hour conversation, I began to think about what I was really doing there. One thought ~ept coming back to me. 'Look around you Margaret. There is so much you can learn here about people and the way they live happily, day• to-day, with much less than you have! They are willing to an- swer your questions!' These thoughts became more evident the next day when, out of habit I took my shower in a dubiously constructed outside stall, went to the b~throom in a roach-infested out-house, and did my laundry by hand in a tub of cold water throwing the dripping mass of clothes orito the Clothes line to dry in the sun and wind. While I was doing my laundry, I was asking Esther some fairly personal questions and she was answering them. I became more motivated than before to find out what made this community function. understand. At one point the entire room was silent. Usually when you are in a room with people you don't know very well and the conversation lags, you become tense and wonder how to decrease the tension. Not this time. It was one of those situations where even silence was accepted and no tension and apprehensiveness existed. I felt as though I was sitting around my own kitchen table with my own family. One of the strengths of any individual is their ability to adjust and be open-minded. I must admit that adjusting to life as a villager was one area I had little trouble with. No books or lectures could have fully prepared me for the life I en- countered. Life in Sea View was a simple one (and I don't mean that in a negative sense), so much so that it was easy to miss the purity of it. Men and women have their roles, in the stereotypical way. I thought I was open-minded enough to handle living in a society where this was the case, but my feminist opinions kept ob- structing my view of the lives I was observing. I tried to talk to a few women and even to change their viewpoints, but stopped when I finally realized that I could not change their opinions about appropriate sex role behavior, and maybe had no right to. • ·· rayer session after recess, St. Augustine Bo~s School, Barbados. Sito.,._\Jret •. _ ... ....,..,._IH,....If c. ....1t&o&\;!t.odi ~ :.1 -w.o1tJ:.-..;;,:t+2~~;l':llo;.~~lll'!~.oaWJif,<.~o\~?M:'I:fl·~wrra' · The time that I really felt accepted occurred one evening several days after the above experience. Esther and Caly~rt, the couple I had been livmg with; invited another couple, who lived down the road, over to chat. The five of us sat around the kitchen tal)le, drinking rum and eating crackers. We talked of life's little trials and tribulations, laughing every minute or two, not from the influence of rum but from the truth of life that only a person who experiences the situations that we were discussing could The ten weeks that I spent on the island of Barbados were filled with enlightenment, anthropological training and education, and most significantly self-awareness and developm(lnt. I feel I learned more about myself in the past ten weeks than in three years at Union College. There is only one thing that I would do differently if given the op- portunity again and .that is to spend more than just a term on the island. I felt as though I had just begun to learn, and that there was so much more out there to discover when I had to leave. It is rather depressing feeling knowing that I just touched the surface of another s~cle~x. .. .·

I I ~·~ I I ; I ~l I l ··~ I I ! I CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 Page7 FEATURES Barbados: Student Perspectives- ''Let' s Talk'' By ROBBIE BI.NKOFF It is winter, one thousand nine-hundred and eighty-six years I approximately l nfter one man was crucified so @thers could praise him. This same said winter of 1986, a large space craft, nicknamed the \Challenger blew up in mid-air, killing seven, and spraying 2 billion American dollars of space equipment over part of the water that covers three-quarters of our Earth's surface (this part happened to be the Atlantic). This same said winter, riels spanned the globe. In South Africa people are fighting ''Apartheid\-whatever that is. Haitians oust a leader who has· dictated their lives f@r cen- turies, and people in the Phillipines run Ferdinand Marcos and his regime into exile, in order to restore \Democracy.\ And on a small coral island in the West Indies, a twenty year old aspiring college student is in conversation with newly acquainted friends, miles from his home. \Is our island going to sink?\ said one 'native,' while glaring for an answer from the white educated man perched on a hillside. I slowly leaned back and thought of the things that had been happening in the world. Then I pondered my little knowledge of geology, and the Miami Vice episode of the night before, and said, \What do you think?\ in the most cautious and pleasing voice possible; because in fact- I was not sure. The only reply was, \It could h . ht?\ . appen though . . . ng . , m the questioning tone reserved for grammar school studen~s who are intimidated by tqe1r teachers. At this point I could have said, \Well Bob Speed, the single man most famous for the geologic discoveries in this area says ... \ but I didn't, because they certainly had no knowledge of this \ever so famous man.\ (In fact, at this time, I too had no knowledge of the man.) Instead, I politely pulled out my \amateur anthropologist badge\ pinned it to my breast pocket, leaned forward, clasped my hands, let the \notes and queries on Anthropology, every thing written by Mintz, and the little else I knew of Margaret c E 10 c Q.J co >- ..._ ,_ 10 ~ >- .0 2 0 .c: Q. :\lead, uul uf HI}' head and ::.aid, \Let's talk\ In thi:; crazy, mixed up muddled up \Wrld, where space shuttles blow up, aHd entire governments are overthrown in the span of only two months, it is nice to see some beauty behind the blen1ishcs. Perhaps all of this cynicism is a bit too much, but there is a reason behind it. \The trivial helps reveal the sublime, ... Sometimes the things one calls little are big, larger than they appear-or than one suspects. Sometimes with the passing of years, they turn out to be eRonnous.\ -Walter Teller \Thoughts and Day\ The American Scholar Winter 1966-67 This is my point behind the cynicism, and behind my past ten weeks at Union College in Barbados. The beauty ()f all my trip, the serenity behind the facade of Anthropological and Psychological insights, were those simple moments when I took off my \amateur Anthropologist badge,'' really sat back and said: \Let's talk. \ It finally happened, I can say. I finally appreciated a people who can belieye and rely on the trivial and simple to run their lives. What is it 'I'horeau said? My whole trip can be summed up in one experience. It was late at night, a full moon shone, and I sat in a cow pasture with a local Rastafarian. After hours of talking, about everything from love to politics, the two of us came to an interesting con- clusion. Although we lived hundreds of miles away from each other, and that our skin color, hair style and other personal practices were quite different, at the heart we were the same people. The next day the space shuttle, deemed the \Challenger exploded over the Atlantic. And as people mourned, all I could think of was the night before and talking to the Rasta man. I could only question why people don't first start by challenging the \stars\ that are on our earth. Student experiences the Barbadian family unit. Assessment of Time in Barbados By MARGARET HESS When I boarded the plane in New York for Barbados, my mind was filled with ap- prehension and the stress of not knowing what to expect. Would I be accepted into a Bajan community? Do Bajans dislike Americans? Will they be willing to answer all my questions? What will it be like being the only white person in a village? All these questions and more were humming through my mind. I realized that some rejection was inevitable but that even- tually someone would accept me. One of the turning points of my stay happened in the beginning of February when I was walking up the long row of houses in my village after spending the day at the Institute (Bellairs Research Institute). I was obviously tired because my walking pace was slow and the books in my bag were getting heavier and heavier with each step. A voice began calling me. \White girl com~ here.\ One of the women that I had passed numerous times on the street, whose name I did not know, called me over to her door step. There were two women and a man sitting on the front stoop chatting. My first reaction was to think, 'oh, they probably think I'm lost or something.' We began to con- verse about the length of my stay, and why I was in the village. This topic was nothing new to me, since I had had to elaborate on this subject more times than I could ever recall. Yet, this conversation took a new turn. They wanted me to com€ for dinner and spend the evening with their family. Another thing happened, instead of me ask:ing them endless questions, as is the case when an amateur anthropologist is trying to learn as much as possible about every aspect of life in a village, they were asking me about my life! ''What is it like where you live?\ \Are people as friendly as you are?\ \What does your house look like?\ After leaving the two hour conversation, I began to think about what I was really doing there. One thought kept corning back to me. 'Look around you Margaret. There is so much you can learn here about people and the way they live happily, day- to-day, with much less tha11 you have! They are willing t() an- swer your questions!' These thoughts became more evident the next day when, out of habit I took my shower in a dubiously constructed outside stall, went to the bathroom in a roach-infested out-house, and did my laundry by hand in a tub of cold water throwing the dripping mass of clothes onto the clothes line to dry in the sun and wind. While I was doing my laundry, I was asking Esther some fairly personal questions and she was answering them. I became more motivated than before to find out what made this community function. understand. At one point the entire room was silent. Usually when you are in a room with people you don't know very well and the conversation lags, you become tense and wonder how to decrease the tension. Not this time. It was one of those situations where even silence was accepted and no tension and apprehensiveness existed. I felt as though I was sitting around my own kitchen table with my own family. One of the strengths of any individual is their ability to adjust and be open-minded. I must admit that adjusting to life as a villager was one area I had little trouble with. No books or lectures could have fully prepared me for the life I en- countered. Life in Sea View was a simple one (and I don't mean that in a negative sense), so much so that it was easy to miss the purity of it. Men and women have their roles, in the stereotypical way. I thought I was open-minded enough to handle living in a society where this was the case, but my feminist opinions kept ob- structing my view of the lives I was observing. I tried to talk to a few women and even to change their viewpoints, but stopped when I finally realized that I could not change their opinions about appropriate sex role behavior, and maybe had no right to. ·Prayer Session after recess, St. Augustine Boys School, Barbados. The time that I really felt accepted occurred one evening several days after the above experience. Esther and Calvert, the couple I had been living with, invited another couple, who lived down the road, over to chat. The five of us sat around the kitchen table, drinking rum and eating crackers. We talked of life's little trials and tribulations, laughing every minute or two, not from the influence of rum but from the truth of life that only a person who experiences the situations that we were discussing could The ten weeks that I spent on the island of Barbados were filled with enlightenment, anthropological training and education, and most significantly self-awareness and development. I feel I learned more about myself in the past ten weeks than in three years at Union College. There is only one thing that I would do differently if given the op- portunity again Hnd that i~ tQ spend more than just Rterm on the island. I felt R~ though I had just begun to leam. and that therE' wRs sn muC'h more out therP to disC'nV('r whPn T hHrl tn leave. It is rather depressing feeling knowing that I just touched the surface of another society. ' , .., l-.. ~ \ - - \' ;~ II ~ \ '1:.-- ...._ •• ,. '\\' Ifill' 'i• .._.. 'f': Vft\'fl ..... ~ ·Jtt~~·~'tll'• ,..r •

PageS CON_CORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 \FEATURES Un~ion ~College Senior Receives Watson Fellowship SCHENECTADY, N.Y. (March 28)-Melinda Phillips, a · political science-philosophy major in the Class of 1986 at Union College, has been awarded a $10,000 Thomas J. Watson Fellowship for 1986-87. She will study Latin American political theater in Mexico, Colombia, Peru, and Argentina. sities throughout the United ' States. · Pleasant reflections of a Barbadian housewife performing the daily domestic chores. Phillips is the daughter of Raymond and Barbara Phillips . of 76 Round Hill Road, Bethany, . Conn. She is a 1982 graduate 'c;>f Amity Regional High School. At Union, Phillips has been involved in the Gaming Association, the Pre-Law Society, the Student Environ- mental Alliance, Amnesty International, Mountebanks (a campus theater organization), the Outing Club, the Debating Club, and WRUC radio. She has served on the Orientation . Committee and the Concert Committee · and won the college's Becker Political Science Award in 1985. Barbados.: A Ten WeekAdventure The Thomas J. Watson · Fellowship Program is an : annual competition that sup- ports study and travel abroad for rec~nt college graduates. Students are selected for their commitment to a particular area of study and for their leadership potential. This year, grants were made to students from 37 colleges and univer- The Thomas J. Watson· Foundation is a charitable trust established in 1961 by the late Mrs. Thomas J. Watson, Sr., in memory of her husband, the founder of . International Business Machines Gor- poration. Since the inception of the program, 1,246 Fellowship awards have been made. By MAGGIE BOITANO Racing down the narrow winding roads of the West Coast en route to Bathsheba aboard an empty bus carrying only us few lost students, I had my first real glimpse of Barbados. From the jagged cliffs of River Bay to the rolling hills of Belleplaine laced with green-brown fields where cows grazed at leisure egr-its statuesquelly mounted on their backs, I was hurled through the countryside slowly drinking in the inner beauty of this tiny island. My daydreams were brought to an end as the bus suddenly came to a screeching halt. The driver, in answer to one of our many probing Questions. unexpectedly pulled over alongside a vast cane field and disappeared into the bushes only to come out minutes later smiling, with a huge stalk of cane, my first taste of the Island. While casually sitting back in my seat, peeling the stalks of cane back with my mouth and letting the thick sweet juice slowly trickle down my face, I could not help but feel content that the opportunity to share Barbados with the people living here for ten weeks was a very special and unique privilege. Eagerly, I con- templated the unexpected events of my stay. Later that very same week, while surrepticiously taking notes in a deserted alley of Speightstown, an elderly woman beckoned me over and I wandered into my first Bar- badian home. Looking around just feeling the warmth and affection that poured from those four thin board walls, I knew this experience would prove to be a rewarding one. Little did I know that later that same month, the four girls who lived in that tiny board house would become my close friends and valuable informants as well, happily showing me the village, sharing stories, and welcoming me into Barbadian society. That first exciting week completing daily field assignments and getting a feel for different parts of the Island was a prelude to a wealth of experiences that have .left in their aftermath a person rich with appreciation for even the simplest aspects of life as well as 'full of fond memories to be continually reflected upon. My biggest and most difficult ta::,k was to remain sensitive the feelings of those around me at all times while also being objectively perceptive and inquisitive too--a task that became very difficult at some times. The initial adjustment to the quiet life of Speightstown, meeting people by day and writing up field notes at night, set in easy. It was the tedious adjustment after seven or eight weeks in the field knowing well how Barbadians live and for- ming several import<mt at- tachments that made sitting down to work quite difficult. The high points of my a~­ venture were just as nwnerous as the low points throwing me into constant mood-swings ranging from splendid elation to deep depression, yet the overall experience was a positive one. Not a week went by without something memorable to write down. Most of my happiest memories involve the manner in which I was gradually ac- cepted into society. Subtle. signs like a wave of recognition from a shop-keeper saying \alright\, the day Mrs. S. gave me free bananas like a regular customer, or the habitual morning talk I managed to have every day with Mr. . C in passfug, all these signs would set me in a positive mood for the rest of the day. Feeling s1rong in this qui.et gradual acceptance it became very easy to assert myself, completing tbe daily field assignments and getting even more out of the whole adventure by meeting people and making friends as well. Soon, once adjusted to the \open\ schedule an an- thropologist is subject to, I became quite adept and often found many ways to make daily field tasks like formal in- terviews, etc., enjoyable too. My first dinner with a Guyanese at her boyfriends' h()me in Speightstown was a tremen- dously informative ex:perience that left me exhilirated as well. I learned more abput their collective. . percepti()ns of Barbadian lifestyles that night than I could ever have learned in a lifetime of Interviews. Atmosphere is the key to getting valuable inf()rmation from informants. The best place to interview someone is ill their most comfortable and well- known habitat. As a result of this theory, I saw all corners of life in Speightstown from in- terviews in the streets of town with hawkers to an. entire day in a barber's shop to dinner at various peoples' houses. I feel after ten weeks of meeting as many people as possible, I have seen community life. Now, at the end of ten weeks in the field, my stay is quickly coming to a close and slowly I am realizing the pe()ple, the places, and the feelings I will soon miss. As anticipated after the first week here, this ex- perience has proven to be a valuable one in fact. Initially I came out here to see what exactly it is an an- thropologist . must do . tn the hopes of finding out if that may be what this lost student with a bug for traveling and the need for a well-rounded liberal I never expectedto gain so very much from su~b a short time away-asserti()n, independence, freedom to go out an9 do what one must; I'll never be able to become a regular tourist disinterested in the people of t~e society visited ::~nd content to just lay on ~e ·Deach all day relaxing agaiii. My mind is constantly filled with questions even about the simplest things and nothing goes unnoticed. After a short trip to Grenada, my perceptions of Barbados were opened up again and more vivid details were noticed with fond appreciati()n. Yes, I have enjoyed this ten week adventure despite the difficlllt times in- · volved and I ()nly wish I had more time here t() conduct a proper survey of the things I have. learned rather than only offering a brief ()Utline of the people and e:xperiences that have brought hapJly memories to me. After all this time, I regret only that I cann()t give more to the many people here who have helped me to learn so much. Barbados truly is a beautiful island where f1iendly people who show so mucb hospitality keep the spirit here alive and thriving. WOMEN'S WEEK: APRIL 7 m 11 FOR IDEAS, INFORMATION AND INSPIRATION UNION COLLEGE • 1986 ~ , THURSDAY, APRIL 10 12:30\1rish Tinker Women\ with Prot. Sharon Gmelch, Social Science Lounge. 8:00 \Women as Leaders/Students as Leaders\ presented by Sarah Weddington, Attorney, who at age 26, argued winning side of Roe vs. Wade,. 1973. Advisor -to President Carter on Women's Issues. First woman elected to House of Representatives in Texas. SS016. 9, 11 Cabaret of Women Performers. Old Chapel. . . Friday, April ll 12:30 Senior Women Present Their Research on Women, Panel presentation bystudents. Social Sciences Lounge. 4:00 International Lesbian Networking· A Conference Report. SS117. 8:00 \Women's Voices: A Theatrical Quilting\ an evening of theater directed by Melinda Ph ill ips. Nott Memorial. 10:00 Coffeehouse With Folksinger Cathy Winter. (Free Ad- mission) HHDR- Under 21 Club. ALL EVENTS ARE FREE WOMEN'S WEEK T-SHIRTS ONLY $3.00 On sale in front of the library Thursday and Friday from 10-2 Come Out and Dance For Those Who Can't Muscular Dystrophy Saturday, April 12th Starting promptly 6 Hour Superdance Marathon t 10 00 For sponsor sheets a ·. : p.m. call John at 381·4293 O,ld Chapel or stacy at x6591 .... .. .......... NOTICE! QE2 STANDBY B\RE 1b EUROPE-NOW$649 This standby fare provides a berth in a room for four (we'll find traveling companions for you). Or,for$749, sailina minimum-grade room for two. This limited offer is subject to withdrawal without prior ~otice and may not be com- bined with any other offer. :Rate does not include taxes or airfare. Confirmation will be given three weeks prior to sail- ing; a $100 deposit is required with your request. Fgr details, see your travel agent or write: Cunard, Box 2935, Grand Central Station, New York, NY10163. QUEEN ELtZABETH 2 Last of the Great Superliners. QE2 registered in, Great Britain. £U.ARD - © CUNARD 1986 QUEEN ELIZABtrrH 2 o SAGAFJORD o VISTAFJORD • CUNARD CO(JN'TESS • CUNARD PRINCESS education might also want to do •... - ._ ________________ I'!!JOI!III_._-.!!\'!\\l_!!'l9!_........_ -\\\!'!\'~~~~--'

.. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 Page9 FEATURES C is for Cookie '\f'HEP.E'S A KARAi£ By WENDY ZIMMERMAN What is a cookie? Is it merely a combination of ingredients such as butter, sugar, flower, and salt? Is it just a round baked object, or is there a deep underlying definition.ignored by most college students; I believe this to be the case. \One cookie on mealcard please\ truned into '~ummm, six cookies on mealcard.\ I began stocking up. As I sit in the sunshine on a small square bench with my medium diet -€oke and my recently heated pub cookie I th~k back on how empty rp.y extstence was before I discovered the emotional value It was a given that when everyone went to get dinner I happily trotte«l down the stairs and into the home of the object of my affections. After eight weeks my cast was removed. I could now get dressed, shower, sleep, writ~ .... but eating didn't change much. Lnow find it more than difficult to get through the day without a pUb cookie. When I'm in class the thought of a hot, mushy centered, melty chip cookie pulls me through. When I study, when I sleep, I know that if things ever go wrong or I need a break, I can just console myself with my love, my life my pub cookie: ' ~::s~~ }• 7 pm- 9 pm ss Building Room 014 Wednesday Friday 2:30-4:00 } Arts Building II interested or have any . questions call Mit.e at 16515 o..- Barth at 16C>46 · of the pub cookie meal. Not long ago, approximately 2lh months ago, I was a typical Union undergrad. I tried to work, and happily took my meals at Hale. One bitter cold night in January I made the fateful decision to put off my work for the evening; not an unusual occurrence, although putting work off to hang a poster <Jn my ceiling was. Some rnay say it was fate, but in any case the point is that I fell off my desk br-eaking two bones in my right hand (Yes, I am right handed.). I must say that I was amazed that my hand was the only pact of me tha:t I injured aside from my pride which was slightly tarnished (have you ever tumbled off a desk irt front of three people while wearing boxer shorts and a t-shirt, clutching your hand in agony while pacing the floor?). . Saturday 5:30-7:00 Dance Studio thank. you . So, neJrttime you are deciding what to eat, and your brain comes upon the thought of bUying a cookie-give it strong consideration. Pub cookies aren't just a form of sustenance; for some, they are a way of life. Ada~ And Rob's World News Report After a most enjoyable three hour stay in the lovely emergency room of Ellis Hospital I was 'casted' and sent on my way with a container of pain killers, an ice pack, and my instructions: \rest for a few days.\ After taking that oh so professional advice I found it quite difficult to carry out what most consider every day tasks (and it wasn't only because of the pain killers). I am referring to such mundane things as dressing, showering, sleeping, writing, and most importantly, eating. It was at this point of my existence that the eye opening realization of how useful and euphoric the pub cookie could be. Now I know this sounds a bit extreme, but let me present my case. To begin with being in- capacitated is not what it is cracked ttp to be. I must admit for the first week it was an enjoyable experience. Having other .people carry my tray and c~t my food was something new and different. But after a while itturnedfrom feeling pampered to feeling helpless. Because of my feelings of inadequacy I decided to take my mealcard elsewhere; namely, The Skellar. It seemed to me that the item on the menu that Would be the easiest to eat was the well known pub cookie. The affair (between me and the cookies of course) started out as a con- venience. If around mealtime, I was near the skellar I would stop in and buy one; if not r would grab something to eat in my room. In time, What started out as convenience turned into dependence. What was once, Get Your Name In Print. Write for Concordy Call x6156 By ADAM EMERSON and ROB BLEIFER Top story last week centered around controversy over Colonel Muammar QaddafPs line of death. Worried about nearby violence in Honduras, Guatamala has extended its own line of death throughout the entire Caribbean. This brings us to dilemma of the week as suggested by a Union Poly Sci professor. Why hasn't Colonel Qaddafi promoted himself yet? · This week's terrorist of the week (still pending), is May Elias Mansur for allegedly planting the bomb that blew a hole through the side of a TWA on its return flight to Greece. Last week the young woman threatened to sue anyone accusing her of planting the bomb. However, being the cGurageous, investigative types of guys that we are, we refuse to be threatened by her threats. So go ahead May, make our day! Need a part-time iob for next year? Become a CAREER ASSISTANT for 1986- 1987 This paraprofessional, paid position enables students to work wi!\h the Career Development Center, conducting workshops, acting as liaison between students and faculty and assisting students in the job search process. Information. 5-ssions: April l 0 4:30, HU 110 7:00, HU 112 \ Application Deadl.ine: April15 Open to Freshmen, Sophomores & Jl.'niors ORIENTATION ADVISOR APPLICATION Available Now in Whitaker House and in Old Chapel at the Box Office Due in Whitaker House at 4 .. :00 p.m. April 14th ln1erviews AprillSth, 16th, 17th In conclusion, not a real neat job but\ A\ for effort. Hey May, this Bud's for you. There were no surprises at the Academy Awards two weeks ago. Or should we say the Geriatric Awards. Don Ameche was cute and lovable in Cocoon. If Klaus-Maria Brandauer (\Out of Africa\) wants to be taken seriously as an actor, he better knock off the serious stuff and be cute like Don. For those of you who feel \The Color Purple\ was short changed, we have this to say to Steven Spielberg. \Steve the fans are using you for your special effects. Bring back adventure or we're not seeing your next movie!\ Out West, in Carmel, Cal!fornia, Clint Eastwood ran for mayor last week. After hounding Mr. Eastwood for weeks, he finally admitted the intent of his campaign was to pardon a recent violation for carrying a 44 Magnum to scare people. But seriously, Clint has run a very successful cam- paign. His slogan the morning of the. election was, \Go .ahead, vote for me today.\ In the sports world, the 1986 baseball season has just opened. Opening day was a day for rejoicing in Cleveland and San Francisco as they enjoyed for the last time a tie for first place in their respective divisions. · ~s the April 15 deadline for filing income taxes approaches, the incidents of stress related ailments increases drastically. However, studies by the renowned New York Post, revealed that people display a strong distaste for the chalky taste of antacid tablets. Per- sonally we .prefer a nice big ulcer to a little chalky discomfort anytime. Meanwhile, back at the ranch, after clawing her way out of the ditch, Aunt Martha made her way towards the barn where she would later milk the cows. A General Electric plant in Waterford, NY had multiple chemical leaks in recent months. Outraged residents struck back by replacing the company's caffeinated coffee pots with decaffeinated coffee. While workers fell asleep on the job, the rebels rampaged through the factory switching all the workers lunchboxes. Casulaties were numerous during the fiasco including Frank's chopped liver and pimento loaf ending up in Joe's locker. Sorry Joe.· Well, that's the news for the week. Maybe Ron should have taken his mom's advice during the Libyan crisis. ''Step on the line, break your mother's spine.\ Enjoy your weekend and we'll see you next week in Adam and Rob's neighborhood. Circle K News Union College's Circle K Club attended the 24th Annual New York District Circle K Inter- national Convention, April 4th· 6th in Schenectady, New York, at the Rainada Inn. Over 20.0 Circle K'ers gathered at the Convention to meet fellow Circle K'ers from other colleges around the District, share ideas, . and develop leadership qualities. Circle K is the largest collegiate service organi~ation in the world. Each club conducts service and . fund-raising projects to benefit its school and community. 'fhe theme of the 24th con- vention was \Almost Anything · Goes.\ In addition to speakers, workshops, and the election of District Officers for the coming school year, the convention program included a talent show, pool party, ice cream buffet, president's banquet and ball and an auction to benefit Cystic Fibrosis, this year's District Project. Circle K clubs are a spon- sored-youth affiliate of Kiwanis International. The Circle K Club of Union College is sponsored by the Kiwanis Club of Schenectady. Casino Night By JON \CACKLER\ LASKIN The first Union College Casino Night was held on Friday, M~rch 7. The event was sponsored by the West College Dorm Council, the Alcohol Alternatives Committee, and the Social Conunittee. Games included Blackjack, Joker Seven, Draps, and Money Wheels. $1200 will be donated to Schenectady County Big Brothers-Big Sisters. A second Casino Night has been planned for Friday, May 16. The location will again be West College Dining Hall. In an effort to allow more people to play, there will be an increase in the number of Blackjack tables. In addition, the Casino will be in operation between the hours of 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. Money collected will be donated to the Schenectady Chapter of the American Red Cross. Thanks to all those who helped out, and we look forward · to seeing you on May 1&.

Page 10 CONCQRDJENSI~Ap~1~1~6 FouaJM at (Inion College 1877 ------~--- -------- Flat Tuition Since the College has decided to increase tuition by 8% to a figure of $10,400, many students and their parents are finding more difficulty paying the price for a Union education. Also, when a notice is sent home in March telling parents/students that they will have to com~ up with $1000 more by September, a heavy burden is placed on the shoulders of the parent/student who must pay the tuition hike. This leaves little room for financial and badgetary plan- ning on the part of parents and students. It might be a good idea to enact a flat tuition rate whereby each student would have one rate for the entire four year stay. As tuition increases would be necessary, the college could protract the costs at an estimated rate to each successive class. Thus, tbe class of 1990 would pay one rate for four years. The class of 1991 would pay a slightly higher rate than the class of '90, but it would stay the same for ~e entire four years. For example, if Union had a flat tuition rate,. th~oretically things could (in a simple way) look like this: The entering class of 1990, instead of paying $10,000 the first year, $11,000 the second, $12,000 the third year and $13,000 the last, they would pay $11,500 for each of the four years. This would make the total cost of the education $46,000 in either case. In this way, the college would still receive the same amount from each student at the end of four years, however, families might be able to plan for the future with more control over monetary concerns especially when they might have to worry about tuition for two or three children. This is a measure that might attract students to Union because they will be guaranteed of knowing exactly what they will be paying for the next four years. In fact, our cousins at Albany Medical have had this type of tuition program and it seems to be a very worthy measure. Safe and Secure One department that has adapted to the ever· changing needs of Union students has been Security and Safety. With so many of our security officers coming from the police department, Cliff Wood, director of Security and Safety, has explained to us that they have had to learn to interact with the students as to what best suits the Union conununity. It seems as if the department has done this well and, in addition, they have expanded their services by adapting to these needs. For example, Security and Safety has established the Delta 1000 computer system which ties in all campus properties to the main terminal at the Security building. They have established a fine escort service to suit the needs of those who choose not to walk at night. In combination with the new telecommunications system that will be installed by the fall, Security has established places for emergency phones all over campus. And, Union was the first school in the U.S. to have fire extinguishers in every dorm room. All of these measures have been taken under the stewardship of Cliff Wood. The great work of the department has been done over the last 11 years under three different presidents and many administrators. Security and Safety is now directly tied to the Vice-President for Finance and Administration. Wood has stressed the importance of making the . Union community even more secure than it is now. Students must not block the residence hall doors open; and they should report all violations to the Security office immediately. His staff has also talked about putting in a more extensive lighting system on campus, and they are in the process of extensive inspections to insure that private fraternities meet. at least the minimum safety standards. Thus, the Security and Safety department .should be commended for the outstanding job they have done for the past few years and especially because they have adapted to Union's constantly changing security needs. ·--- LETTERS Tom Baltay Remembered 'l'o the editors: . The loss of Thomas Baltay, class of '87, was a tragic event for relatives, friends, and community of Union College. It caused us to reflect on the many great times that all of us spent with Tom. We will .all remember Tom and his flair for life. He represented a variety of things to different people and each of us will remember Tom in our own special way. His passing will leave us with an empty space in our Uves, a space that we had previously taken for granted. rf we allow · Tom's IUe to inSpire each of us in our own lives, then he will never be far from us. We all should try to learn .from this experience, make the most of the time we have together, and try to understand and care for one another. As Tom's best friend and roommate put it, \Tom would not want us all to mourn over his death, but rather, he would want us to enjoy ourselves and remember him as a great, fun-loving person .. \ · We, the brothers of the Alpha Chapter of Delta Phi, would like to extend our sincerest \thank- you\ to everyone· who provided support.for all of those involved. We woUld especially like to thank Sister Joan who set up the memorial mass conducted on Sunday, the 6th of April in honor of Thomas Baltay. We would also like to encourage the continuing support for Jane Kissel who we hope to see back with us at Union as soon as possible. Again, thank you! The Brothers ofDeltaPhi Union's Absence Noted To the editors: On Sunday, March 9, over 80;000 women and men flocked to the streets of Washington, DC to \March for Women's Lives\; to support the right for women to have an abortion safely and . legally. They marched around the Washington Monument, past the White House and onto the lawn of the Capitol, where Eleanor Smeal, President of the National· Organization for Women, as well as various other speakers and singers told the crowd that women's lives were no longer to be toyed with. No more denial- .of accurate birth control information, and no more back street butchers. Spirits were high, opposition was minimal. People from all over the country, sorne·from as far away as Alaska, were present. Colleges and univer- sities of all sizes were represented. The Ivies were there-Brown, Harvard, Yale, Princeton, U of P, Dartmouth, Columbia. Smaller colleges were there too-Colgate, Hamilton, Smith, Holyoke, George Washington. Four colleges from the Capital District alone were present- SUNY-Albany, Skidmore, Russell Sage and RPI. But not Union. When I realized that there were college C()ntingents present, I scanned the lawn for Union students., buttonoavail.I was bitterly disappoiDted to find that not one member of the Union community felt it was worth their time and effort to travel to DC to support one of the most fundamental rights a woman can have-the right to choose. Has the Women's Network become apathetic? Does no one there care ·anymore? Is the issue just not vital enough? Or did finals week take precedence? Come on, Union, wake up. You may think that your rights are protected within the cosmos of your quiet Schnectady -campus, but come the day you step outside, you may well find that you have been stripped of those rights. And you will have done nothing to fight it. Sincerely, Karen Paul '84 Student Defines Conservatism To the editors: It is bad enough that most weeks I must read the sanc- timonious responses of the myopic left. Left last term, however, a dangerous precedent was set when two self proclaimed conservatives at- tacked my views from the left. Scott Webster and Eric Lipman, you have delivered what Antony said of Brutus' stabbing of Caesar In Shakespeare's Julius Ceasar, ''the most unkind est cut of all.\ It was unfortunate that there was no March 15 issue in which your letters could have been published. You two both claim to be conservatives. At best you are both, ih my estimate, just slightly left of center. I will All Letters to the Editor must be typed double .. spaced and submiHed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters . must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the · ·Iefler. Names normally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect leffers that are libelous or do not · conform to stahdards of good taste .. attempt, in this letter, to illustrate to you; and to those whom your insignificant sound and fury may have confused, the true meaning of con- servatism. A conservative government, at any level, provides only those services that cannot be provided by the private sector or any lower governmental entity. At the federal level, the basic service that would be provided would be defense. A substantial fraction of the federal budget would go toward repaying our national debt. An infinitessimal slice would pay for the maintainance of a handful of national parks, as well as the salaries of some officials~ like the President, federal judges, and the Congress, plus a few thousand clerks to process the 10 percent Continued on page 11 - 'C fie pa ta cil ,ec re, of lei pr 1a1 to In ag lot of thi tb W< pe I co bil de ev de sol yo Qt WC W; to we of stc ab an le! m( be• 10 mi W<J in ra: pel re( L sa of Li is~ m stl lit Cl( th: pr ha inj dil ho Sc fa in: st te: se lit ra ·Of a g<J us lUl hCI pr th se n< es dE P<l Ia N; to a' hCI vo kil be se m,

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 <nnttntrbtrnsis Fo~cl at ( lmon Colltg~ /817 ------------ ~------ Flat Tuition Since the C()llege has decided to increase tuition by 8% to a figure af $10,400~ many students and their parents are finding more difficulty paying the price for a Union education. Also, when a notice is sent home in Marc b. tel:ling parents/ students that they will have to com~ up with $1000 more by September, a heavy burden is placed on the shoulders of the parent/student who must pay the tuition hi:ke. This leaves little r-oom for financial and budgetary plan- ning on the part of parents and students. It might be a good idea to enact a flat tuition rate whereby each student would have one rate for the entire four year sbty. As tuition increases would be necessary, the c0llege could protract the costs at an estimated rate to each successive class. Thus, the class of 1990 W()uld pay one rate for four years. The class of 1991 W()uld pay a slightly higher rate than the class of '90, bnt it would stay the same for the entire foar years. For example, if Union had a flat tuition rate, th~oretically things could (in a simple way) look like this: The entering class of 1990, instead of paying $10,000 the first year, $11,000 the second, $12,000 the third year and $13,000 the last, they would pay $11,500 for each of the four years. This would make the total cost of the education $46,000 in either case. In this way, the college would still receive the same amount from each student at the end of four years, however, famiUes might be able to plan for the future with more control over monetary concerns especially when they migbt have to worry about tuition for two or three childr-en. This is a measure that might attract students to Union because they will be guaranteed of knowing exactly what they will be paying for the next four years. In fact, our cousins at Albany Medical have had this type of tuition program and it seems to be a very worthy measure. Safe and Secure One department that has adapted to the ever- changing needs of Union students has been Security and Safety. With so many of our security officers coming from the police department, Cliff Wood, director of Secarity and Safety, has explained to us that they hav€ had to learn to interact with the students as to what best suits the Union community. It seems as if the department has done this well and, in addition, they have expanded their services by adapting to these needs. For- example, Security and Safety has established the Delta 1000 computer system which ties in all campas properties to the main terminal at the Secur-ity building. They have established a fine escort service to suit the needs of those who choose not to walk at night. In combination with the new telecommunications system that will be installed by the fall, Security has established places for emergency phones all over campus. And, Union was the first school in the U.S. to have fire extinguishers in every dorm room. All of these measures have been taken under the stewardship of Cliff Wood. The great work of the department has been done over the last 11 years under three different presidents and many administrators. Security and Safety is now directly tied to the Vice-President for Finance and Administration. Wood has stressed the importance of making the Union community even more secure than it is now. Students must not block the residence hall doors open; and they should report all violations to the Security office immediately. His staff has also talked about putting in a more extensive lighting systern on campus, and they are in the process of extensive inspections to insure that private fraternities meet at least the minimum safety standards. Thus, the Security and Safety department should be commended for the outstanding job they have done for the past few years and especially because they have adapted to Union's constantly changing security needs. LETTERS To~m Baltay Remembered --~----------------- To the editars: The loss of Thomas Ba,ltay, class of '87, was a tragic event for relatives, friends, and community of Union College. It caused us to reflect on the many great times that all of us spent with Tom. We will all remember Tom and his flair for life. He represented a variety of things to different people and · each of us will remember Tom in our own special way. His passing will leave us with an empty space in our lives, a space that we had previously taken f0r graHted. If we allow · Tom's life to inspire each of us in our own lives, then he will never be far from us. We all should try to learn. from this experience, make the most of the time we have together, and try to understand and care for one another. As Tom's best frieNd and raommate put it, \Tom would n0t want us all to mourn over his death, but rather, he wauld want us to enjoy ourselves and remember him as a great, fun-loving person.\ We, the brothers of the Alpha Chapter of Delta Phi, would like ta extend our sincerest \thank- you\ to everyone who provided support for all of those involved. We would especially like to thank Sister Joan who set up the memorial mass conducted on Sunday, tbe·6th of April in honor of Thomas Baltay. We would alsa like to encourage the .continuing support for Jane Kissel who we hope to see back with us at Union as soan as possible. Again, thank you! The Brothers of Delta Phi Union's Absence Noted To the editors: On Sunday, March 9, over 80,000 women and men flocked to the streets of Washington, DC to \March for Women's Lives\; to support the right for women to have an abortion safely and legally. They marched around the Washington Monument, past the White House and onto the lawn of the Capitol, where Eleanor Smeal, President of the National Organization for Women, as well as various other speakers and singers told tbe crowd that women's lives were no longer to be toyed with. No more denial of accurate birth control informaiion, and no more back street butchers. Spirits were high, opposition was minimal. People from all over the country, some from as far away as Alaska, were present. Colleges and univer- sities of all sizes were represented. The Ivies were there-Brown, Harvard, Yale, Princeton, U of P, Dartmouth, Columbia. Smaller colleges were there too-Colgate, Hamilton, Smith, Holyoke, George Washington. Four colleges from the Capital District alone were present- SUNY-Albany, Skidmore, Russell Sage and RPI. But not Union. When I realized that there were college contingents present, I scanned the lawn for Union students, but to no avail. I was bitterly disappointed to find that not one member of the Union community felt it was worth their time and effort to travel to DC to support one of the most fundamental rights a woman can have-the right to choose. Has the Women's Network become apathetic? Does no one there care anymore? Is the issue just not vital enough? Or did finals week take precedence? Come on, Union, wake up. You may think that your rights are protected within the cosmos of your quiet Schnectady campus, hut come the day you step outside, you may well find that you have been stripped of those rights. And you will have done nothing to fight it. Sincerely, Karen Paul '84 Student Defines Conservatism To the editors: It is bad enough that most weeks I must read the sanc- timonious responses of the myopic left. Left last term, however, a dangerous precedent was set when two self proclaimed conservatives at- tacked my views from the left. Scott Webster and Eric Lipman, you have delivered what Antony said of Brutus' stabbing of Caesar in Shakespeare's Julius Ceasar, \the most unk:indest cut of all\ It was unfortunate that there was no March 15 issue in which your letters could have been published. You two both claim to be conservatives. At best you are l>oth, in my estimate, just slightly left of center. I will All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submiHed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their adtlresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be withheld. Coneordiensis reserves the right to reiect le11ers that are libelous or do not conform to standards of good taste. attempt, in this letter, to illustrate to you, and to those whom your insignificant sound and fury may have confused, the true meaning of con- servatism. A conservative government, at any level, provides only those services that cannot be provided by the private sector or any lower governmental entity. At the federal level, the basic service that would be provided W()Uld be defense. A substantial fraction of the federal budget would go toward repaying our national debt. An infinitessimal slice would pay for the maintainance of a handful of national parks, as well as the salaries of some officials, like the President, federal judges, and the Congress, plus a few thousand clerks to process the 10 percent Continued on page 11 Editors-in..Cbief Sarah Caldermi:, JayGrossman NewsEdit&rs . David Marin~ Linda Raffaele Associate News.Editor David Gulliver Features.Editors Maggie Boital!~~ LeeAnn Sclunidt Conunentary Page Editors GregFayt Stuart sands Arts Editors Kilnberly Hancock, Permi Morganstein Campus Page Editors Lisa ManffiiJ Wendy Z'n:nmerman Sports Editors Doug Lloyd, Charlie Slotnik Associate Sports Editt>r Jim Solomon Advertising Editors JaniceGrossman~ Susan Neumann · Assoc. Adv.:Editor Lisa Ordower BUsiness Managers Keith Conklin, Bob Koch Ph~o Editor Dave Gruber Sports Photo Editor . . Stuart Odell Subscription Editor BID Fenstermaker, Daniel Nicoli I i f J, ! \ \ l I l \ l ,. ! I I I I I I f - 'Cc fla pa: I tm cit ec1 reE of le~ pr< las to 1 in ag: Ion of the the wo pet 1 co~ bill def evE del sol yo1 Qu wo Wa to c WOi of: sta abl am les mo bee 10 1 mil WOl in rai per rec L: To J. sa1 of 1 Lit iss mE stu lib cle the; pr< ha: int dis ho, Sc: fa' ins siz j ter sei lib rat of I a I go1 us un: ha: pri thE se1 no es< del pol lal Na to av: ha To 1 vol kit' bee se< fiE

CONCORDIENSIS, Aprif/0, 1986 Page 11 ·- ' . ----- -.. ~ ~---~~ LETTERS COMMENTARIES Conservatism Defined Reflection on the Middle East ~ummit ' Continued.frompage 10 flat rate ta.x: returns that would pay for all of these services. , Imagine how much new spin off technology that $400 billion in Pentagon spending would produce. I must reiterate again how the greatest technological advance of the last 20 years, the silicon ·chip, has been quickly and ine:&pensively been in- corporated into everything from cars to auto plants, to the word processor on which you will undoubtedly ~e to write your response to this letter, came directly from military research. I cannot imagine how .beneficial the future spin off technology will be. By MONIQUEHARRISON and TOO DIMMICK In addition, as if reducing the tax burden on American citizens and businesses, the economy would be further resurrected by ell.m:inating all of the pro-labor anti-business legislation that has been promulgated by the left over the last 50 years or so. In this way, .to paraphrase President Hoover in a 1932 campaign speech against FDR, grass will no longer grow in the parking lots of American factories, due to the New Deal. With the repeal of these laws, American business would once again be com- petitive with Europe and Japan. At this point, you two must be wondering about state and ·local governmental spending. Both will pay the salaries of governmental employees as outlined in the paragraph on federal spending. In addition, the states Will maintain the bridges, highways, and water mains that connect two or more counties. They will also provide a state police .force. Localities will provide local road main- tainance, as well as local p<>lice, fire, and sanitation services. Siilce there would be no federal deductions for state and local income taxes, there would be a tremendous incentive for the states and localities to restrict their spending to these areas, since their costs could not be even indirectly subsidized by Washington. I hope that I have enlightened you both on conservatism. I hope that you agree with me and that we can all work together. . The two of us represented the Arab,- pro-Palestinian Yemen Arab Republic at the Harvard National Model United Nations in Boston two weeks ago. We participated in a first-time conference called the Middle East Summit. Instead of a large number of delegates and several issues, this confevence addressed only one, albeit large, question. Our purpose was to discuss and propose resolutions to the Israeli- Palestinian conflict. Attending · were the Arab countPies, the PLO, Israel, the United States and the Soviet Uirlon. As Jan Baran indicated last week, Israel, Jordan and Sau.di Arabia sent actual citizens. Covered twice by the Boston Globe, this conference will not take place next year because of the way this year's summit turned out. Both of us went into this conferenc~ with many preconceptions and opinions. One as a Jew and the other as an advocate of US policy in the Middle East, we instinctively wanted to support Israel. There is a basic problem, though, with supporting rsrael in a Model UN when one is supposed to be follovnng the Arab line. With the helpful pressure of the true Arabs at the Summit, we realized that we would have some changes to make. So we cheerfully dove into anti-Israeli rhetoric, still considering this to be an in- teresting game. Yet slowly we This federal budget would cost $500 billion. Over $400 billion of that would go for defense spending, with almost everything else earmarked for debt repayment. This would solve all of the problems that you claimed ''Priorities Questioned\ raised. There would be no need for Washington to borrow heavily to cover its debt, because there would no longer be a reservoir of red ink to irrigate a crop of stagnation. Businesses would·be able to borrow unlimited amounts of funds at 3 percent or less. Everyone would have more money to spend or invest, because income taxes would be 10 percent. Think of how many millions of unemployed people would now be able to find work in an economy expanding so rapidly that any previous periods of high growth look like recessions. Sincerely, saw that for the trtle Jor- Pau),.Schop · danians, the true Saudis and the ---------------------------- true Israelis, this was far from Library-Bashing·unretlective. a game. Scratch the name To the Editors: Are we all talking about the same library? The assemblage of quotes pertaining to Schaffer Library in the final winter term issue of Concordy would lead me to believe tb.at some students are not looking at our library with very keen eyes or clear heads. There is no denying that our library has some problems (most notably that it has a physically unattractive interior and is often a climatic disaster area). I would suggest, however, that in key respects Schaffer Library compares favorably with libraries at most institutions of our approximate size. A library can be judged in terms of its collections, its services, and its staff. Our library professionals are first· rate people. Wiht the exception of the fact that library hours are a bit too limited, services are good. About book collections let us be clear. Ours is not a university research library, but has respectable holdings in the primary curricular areas and in the fields of faculty research sepcialization. By the latter I do not mean merely narrow, esoteric subfields, but broadly defined fields (Latin American politics, cognitive psychology, labor economics, etc.) Naturally the faculty would like to have larger book budgets available, so that we would not have to make so many choiCes each year. Unfortunately, we must be especially prudent for the next several years as the library begins to run short of shelf space. Despite one student's astonishing suggestion to the contrary, there is not a high school library on the North American con- tinent that comes even remotely close to Schaffer Library's scholarly collections. While I cannot judge the depth and quality of the entire reference section, I do know that there are no major gaps in the political science holdings. Moreover, every reasonable purchase I request I send to the head of reference is honored. I know that the experiences of my colleagues are similar in this regard. The periodicals collection is superb for an institution of our type. Again, I cannot assess the holdings in each field, but in the social sciences every major journal and many of the less widelyaknown journals are available. In this respect we come closer to the small university than to the typical liberal arts college. This brings me to the question of why so many students seem to find the library so inadequate. I have a hypothesis. Most Union students are asked to write a lot of papers, and to go beyond the basics in doing so. In the Social Sciences Division and in some other departments substantial senior theses are required, or are at least op- tional. The fulfillment of these requirements puts an enormous burden on the basic collections. Students often go to the,.. card catalogue in search of the \perfect\ title, only to find either that there is no such title or that the book is off the shelf. The frustrations that follow are magnified by the pressures of the ten week tenn. Moreover, many students do not know enough about the use of periodicals in doing their research, preferring to use books even when journals would yield more and better ideas and information. Faculty members have an obligation to encourage periodical use and to instruct our students in the mysteries of reading bibliographic indices and .skimming abstracts. I am convinced that we take too much for granted the ability of our students to use the resources of the library ef- fectively. In fact, using Schaffer Library-or any good library- requires both some .sophistication and. effort. Certainly no reasonable person would deny that we could use a larger, more comfortable, better-stocked library, but the sort of unreflective, library- bashing that we saw in Con- . cordy is perplexing and discouraging. Charles M. Tidmarch Associate Professor Security's Tactics Questioned To the Editors: Two recent incidents in- volving the inspection of our kitchen here at Sigma Chi, have been handled. so poorly by security, that it has compelled me to· pubUcly .,oice rny disapproval. The Sigma Chi kitchen was inspected by security over Christmas break, and was found not to be properly cleaned. Upon arriving back at the house after break, I was not notified by ·security tha'rthere was any problem with our kitchen. In fact, the kitchen was allowed to operate normally for the first eleven days of winter term. On midnight of the eleventh day of the term, a security guard knocked on my · · door;' and· handed me a letter \Model\ off of this conference. After the first day we had begun to seethe role that we must play as an Arab state, but we had not learned enough. We had a good grasp of the basic problem: the struggle for the same land. What makes this struggle even more futile is the unyielding .belief of each side that they are the legitimate owners. It is frustrating that the issue cannot be resolved ·through any negotiations unless the parties involved become more willing to compromise. This unwillingness to negotiate exhibited at the negotiating table is the result of not only politics but also the actual cultural upbringing of both the Palestinians and the Israelis. We as Americans have historical belief in the value of nonviolence through negotiations. Our cultural conditioning tells us that problems can always be solved peaceably. It is difficult for us to comprehend things any other way, thankfully. But how can Israel recognize an organization whose sole P_!.Ir· pose is Israel's dissolution? By the same token, how can the Palestinians agree to recognize Israel, when such recognition would imply acceptance of Israel's sovereignty over territory the Palestininans claim. Obviously, for any consensus. some sort of concession must be made. We suggested con- cessions to the real ,Arabs and they ignored us. The Arab states (implicitly the PLO) and Israel both feel that they have Albany View given enough. An inescapable feeling of dismay crept in, because it began to seem that agreement on even what is to be negotiated would be impossible. The feeling grew as the con- ference progressed. The final \Joint Com- munique\ justified our pessimism. The summit con· eluded with an agreement that negotiations are necessary, but with no agreement on the subject of negotiations! Even with this ultra-diluted con- sensus, there was not unanimity. (Libya dissented). Through the frustrating procedure, we gained valuable insight into why the conference ended in failure. Both sides had very sincere reasons for why they would bend no further. In the future, it will continue to be imperative that we 'try to un- derstand the reasons of both the Arabs and the Israelis. For this reason our attempt to ac- curately represent the Yemen Arab Republic was a valuable experience. Our intent is not to describe a dramatic reversru of loyalty or sympathy. Althoug.Jl our in- stinct was, and still is, to sympathize with Israel, our perception of the conflict was broadened by attending this conference. What we would like to support is the desire to learn more about not only one side, but the other as well. The conference was frustrating but it was not futile. It is clear that any peace must be based on sincere desire to understand the adversary and his reasons as well as our own. Proposal Doesn't Pass ByPAULSCHOP On Saturday morning, April5, at 4:00, the New York State legislature passed the state's budget for the new fiscal year, which began on April 1. This came after weeks of lengthy debate and compromise bet- ween the Democrats who dom~ate the Assembly and the governor's mansion, and the Republicans, who comprise a majority in the Senate. Because the budget was passed five days late, the state legally could not spend any money from April 1 until the 5th. Noticeably absent from the new budget was a proposal that would greatly benefit all New Yorkers, and particularly the poor. The Republicans, as a part of their tax cut package for 1986, proposed the exempting of the first $75 of any clothiQg purchase from the state's 4 percent sales tax. This bill would particularly aid the state's poor, who, because the sales tax is a regressive. tax, are forced to pay a larger per- centage of their smaller income in sales tax than those who are better off financially. Also, the poor cannot afford to travel to a neighboring state such as New Jersey or Pennsylvania, which do not tax clothing sales, so they have no choice but to pay this tax. In addition, the poor are also losing jobs in the retail informing me that our kitchen was being shut down, because it failed inspection during break. This event left serious questions in my mind; the of- ficer told me that the kitchen must be \shut down im- mediately before someone ends clothing industry in New York, which is not able to afford to hire them because they are unable to compete with stores in places like Paramus, which are attracting New Yorkers who are eager to avoid paying this tax. The opposition to this proposal ·· came from key Democrats such as Governor Cuomo and Assembly Speaker Stanley Fink, who refused to incorporate it into their tax and Spending program. The Republicans tried to add it to the new budget by amending a very closely related tax bill with it on Aprill. Speaker Fink ruled the amendment not germaine, which in the New York Assembly means that the amendment was out of order. Unlike Congress, an amend- ment must be very closely related to the bill which it is being added to. If the speaker feels that it is not, he may declare it to be not germaine, which effectively kills it. The minority does have the recourse of asking for a vote on a ger- manity ruling, which the Republicans did on this oc- casion, and which failed, 91-55, on a straight, party line vote. Because this is a very popular issue with most New Yorkers, many Republican legislators believe that it will return next year, and that it will probably become law at that time. up in Ellis with food poisoning.\ If security was so concerned that someune would get ill, why wasn't the kitchen shut down the first day of the term. You should be aware that by the eleventh day of the term the Continued on page 12

! I ,.[ i I i 11 I ! II , I II l r ! CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 Page 11 LETTERS COMMENTARIES Conservatism Defined Reflection on the Middle East Summit ' Continued from page 10 flat rate tax returns that would pay for aU of these services. Imagine hGW much new spin off techr:10logy that $400 billion in Pentagon spending would produce. I must reiterate again how the greatest technological advan.ce of the last 20 years, the silicon chip, has been quickly and inexpensively been in- corporated into everything from cars to auto plants, to the word processor on which you will undoubtedly use to write your resp9nse to this letter, came directly from military research. I cannot imagine how beneficial the future spin off technology will be. By MONIQUE HARRISON and TOD DIMMICK In addition, as if reducing the tax burden on American citizens and businesses, the economy would be further resurrected by eliminating all of the pro-labor anti-business legislation that has been promulgated by the left over the last 50 years or so. In this way, to paraphrase President Hoover in a 1932 campaign speech against FDR, grass will no longer grow in the parking lots of American factories, due to the New Deal. With the repeal of these laws, American business would once again be com- petitive with Europe and Japan. This federal budget would cost $500 billion. Over $400 billion of that would go for defense spending, with almost everything else earmarked for debt repayment. This weuld solve all of the problems that you claimed \Priorities Questioned\ raised. There would be no need for Washington to borrow heavily to cover its debt, because there would no longer be a reservoir of red ink to irrigate a crop of stagnation. Businesses would·be able to borrow unlimited amounts of funds at 3 percent or less. Everyone would have more money to spend or invest, because income taxes would be 10 percent. Think of how many millions of unemployed people would now be able to find work in an economy expanding so rapidly that any previous periods of high growth look like recessions. At this point, you two must be wondering about state and local governmental spending. Both will pay the salaries of governmental employees as outlined in the paragraph on federal spending. In addition, the states will maintain the bridges, highways, and water mains that connect two or more counties. They will also provide a state police force. Localities will provide local road main- tainance, as well as local police, fire, and sanitation services. Since there would be no federal deductions for state and local income taxes, there would ·be a tremendous incentive for the states and localities to restrict their spending to these areas, since their costs could not be even indirectly subsidized by Washington. I hope that I have enlightened you both on conservatism. I hope that you agree with me and that we can all work together. Sincerely, PaulSchop The two of us represented the Arab, pro-Palestinian Yemen Arab Republic at the Harvard National Model United Nations in Baston two weeks ago. We participated in a first-time conference called the Middle East Summit. Instead of a large number of delegates and several issues, this conference addressed only one, albeit large, question. Our purpose was to discuss and propose resolutions to the Israeli- Palestinian conflict. Attending were the Arab countries, the PLO, Israel, the United States and the Soviet Union. As Jan Baran indicated last week, Israel, Jordan and Saudi Arabia sent actual citizens. Covered twice by the Boston Globe, this conference will not take place next year because of the way this year's summit turned out. Both of us went into this conference with many preconceptions and opinions. One as a Jew and the other as an advocate of US policy in the Middle East, we instinctively wanted to support Israel. There is a basic problem, though, with supporting Israel in a Model UN when one is supposed to be following the Arab line. With the helpful pressure of the true Arabs at the Summit, we realized that we would have some changes to make. So we cheerfully dove into anti-Israeli rhetoric, still considering this to be an in- teresting game. Yet slowly we saw that for the true Jor- danians, the true Saudis and the true Israelis, this was far from Library-Bashing Unreflective. _a _gam_e._sc_rat_ch _the_n_am___,e To the Editors: Are we all talking about the same library? The assemblage of quotes pertaining to Schaffer Library in the final winter term issue of Concordy would lead me to believe that some students are not looking at our library with very keen eyes or clear heads. There is no denying that our library has some problems (most notably that it has a physically unattractive interior and is often a climatic disaster area). I would suggest, however, that in key respects Schaffer Library compares favorably with libraries at most institutions of our approximate size. A library can be judged in terms of its collections, its services, and its staff. Our library professionals are first- rate people. Wiht the exception of the fact that library hours are a bit too limited, services are good. About book collections let us be clear. Ours is not a university research library, but has respectable holdings in the primary curricular areas and in the fields of faculty research sepcialization. By the latter I do not mean merely narrow, esoteric subfields, but broadly defined fields (Latin American politics, cognitive psychology, labor economics, etc.) Naturally the faculty would like to have larger book budgets available, so that we would not have to make so many choices each year. Unfortunately, we must be especially prudent for the next several years as the library begins to run short of shelf space. Despite one student's astonishing suggestion to the contrary, there is not a high school library on the North American con- tinent that comes even remotely close to Schaffer Library's scholarly collections. While I cannot judge the depth and quality of the entire reference section, I do know that there are no major gaps in the political science holdings. Moreover, every reasonable purchase I request I send to the head of reference is honored. I know that the experiences of my colleagues are similar in this regard. The periodicals collection is superb for an institution of our type. Again, I cannot assess the holdings in each field, but in the social sciences every major journal and many of the less widely-known journals are available. In this respect we come closer to the small university than to the typical liberal arts college. This brings me to the question of why so many students seem to find the library so inadequate. I have a hypothesis. Most Union students are asked to write a lot of papers, and to go beyond the basics in doing so. In the Social Sciences Division and in some other departments substantial senior theses are required, or are at least op- tional. The fulfillment of these requirements puts an enormous burden on the basic collections. Students often go to the ' card catalogue in search of the \perfect\ title, only to find either that there is no such title or that the book is off the shelf. The frustrations that follow are magnified by the pressures of the ten week term. Moreover, many students do not know enough about the use of periodicals in doing their research, preferring to use books even when journals would yield more and better ideas and information. Faculty members have an obligation to encourage periodical use and to instruct our students in the mysteries of reading bibliographic indices and skimming abstracts. I am convinced that we take too much for granted the ability of our students to use the resources of the library ef- fectively. In fact, using Schaffer Library-or any good library- requires both some sophistication and effort. Certainly no reasonable person would deny that we could use a larger, more comfortable, better-stocked library, but the sort of unreflective, library- bashing that we saw in Con- cordy is perplexing and discouraging. Charles M. Tidmarch Associate Professor Security's Tactics Questioned To the Editors: Two recent incidents in- volving the inspection of our kitchen here at Sigma Chi, have been handled so poorly by security, that it has compelled me to publicly voice my disapproval. The Sigma Chi kitchen was inspected by security over Christmas break, and was fo11nd not to be properly cleaned. Upon arriving back at the house after break, I was not notified by security that there was any problem with our kitchen. In fact, the kitchen was allowed to operate normally- for the first eleven days of wmter term. On midnight of the eleventh day of the term, a security guard knocked on my door, and handed me a letter \Model\ off of this conference. After the first day we had begun to see the role that we must play as an Arab state, but we had not learned enough. We had a good grasp of the basic problem: the struggle for the same land. What makes this struggle even more .futile is the unyielding belief of each side that they are the legitimate owners. It is frustrating that the issue cannot be resolved -through any negotiations unless the parties involved become more willing to compromise. This unwillingness to negotiate exhibited at the negotiating table is the result of not only politics but also the actual cultural upbringing of both the Palestinians and the Israelis. We as Americans have historical belief in the value of nonviolence through negotiations. Our cultural conditioning tells us that problems can always be solved peaceably. It is difficult for us to comprehend things any other way, thankfully. But how can Israel recognize an organization whose sole P.!lf· pose is Israel's dissolution? By the same token, how can the Palestinians agree to recognize Israel, when such recognition would imply acceptance of Israel's sovereignty over territory the Palestininans claim. Obviously, for any consensus. some sort of concession must be made. We suggested con- cessions to the real Arabs and they ignored us. The Arab states (implicitly the PLO) and Israel both feel that they have Albany View given enough. AR inescapable feeling of dismay crept in, becHuse it began to seem that agreement on even what is to be negotiated would be impossible. The feeling grew as the con- ference progressed. The final \Joint Com- munique\ justified our pessimism. The summit con- cluded with an agreement that negotiations are necessary, but with no agreement on the subject of negotiations! Even with this ultra-diluted con- sensus, there was not unanimity. (Libya dissented). Thr~:)Ugh the frustrating procedure, we gained valuable insight into why the conference ended in failure. Both sides had very sincere reasons for why they would bend no further. In the future, it will continue to be imperative that we 'try to un- derstand the reasons of both the Arabs and the Israelis. For this reason our attempt to ac- curately represent the Yemen Arab Republic was a valuable experience. Our intent is not to describe a dramatic reversal of loyalty or sympathy. Although our in- stinct was, and Still is, to sympathize with Israel, our perception of the conflict was broadened by attending this conference. What we would like to support is the desire to learn more about not only one side, but the other as well. The conference was frustrating but it was not futile. It is clear that any peace must be based on sincere desire to understand the adversary and his reasons as well as our own. Proposal Doesn't Pass ByPAULSCHOP On Saturday morning, April5, at 4:00, the New York State legislature passed the state's budget for the new fiscal year, which began on April 1. This came after weeks of lengthy debate and compromise bet- ween the Democrats who domjnate the Assembly and the governor's mansion, and the Republicans, who comprise a majority in the Senate. Because the budget was passed five days late, the state legally could not spend any money from April 1 until the 5th. Noticeably absent from the new budget was a proposal that would greatly benefit all New Yorkers, and particularly the poor. The Republicans, as a part of their tax cut package for 1986, proposed the exempting of the first $75 of any clothing purchase from the state's 4 percent sales tax. This bill would particularly aid the state's poor, who, because the sales tax is a regressive tax, are forced to pay a larger per- centage of their smaller income in sales tax than those who are better off financially. Also, the poor cannot afford to travel to a neighboring state such as New Jersey or Pennsylvania, which do not tax clothing sales, so they have no choice but to pay this tax. In addition, the poor are also losing jobs in the retail informing me that our kitchen was being shut down, because it failed inspection during break. This event left serious questions in my mind; the of- ficer told me that the kitchen must be \shut down im- mediately before someone ends clothing industry in New York, which is not able to afford to hire them because they are unable to compete with stores in places like Paramus, which are attracting New Yorkers who are eager to avoid paying this tax. The opposition to this proposal came from key Democrats such as Governor Cuomo and Assembly Speaker Stanley Fink, who refused to incorporate it into their tax and spending program. The Republicans tried to add it to the new budget by amending a very closely related tax bill with it on Aprill. Speaker Fink ruled the amendment not germaine. which in the New York Assembly means that the amen&nent was out of order. Unlike Congress, an amend- ment must be very closely related to the bill which it is being added to. If the speaker feels that it is not, he may declare it to be not germaine, which effectively kills it. The minority does have the recourse of asking for a vote on a ger- manity ruling, which the Republicans did on this oc- casion, and which failed, 91-55, on a straight, party line vote. Because this is a very popular issue with most New Yorkers, many Republican legislators believe that it will return next year, and that it will probably become law at that time. up in Ellis with food poisoning.\ If security was so concerned that some·one would get ill, why wasn't the kitchen shut down the first day of the term. You should be aware that by the eleventh day of the term the Continued on page 12

' l Page 12 • • • G11est Commen~ary By JAMES UNDERWOOD The decrease in the number of courses offered and the sub- sequent increase in class size has sparked considerable con• troversy and passion during this academic year. Without suggesting that there is no room for heat in community debates, my main purpose here is to try to bring some cool light to the subject. Specifically, what I seek to do is: 1) place the question of a reduction in faculty teaching load into a context of the needs of, and opportunities for, the College, and 2) suggest ways in which the effects of the resulting in~ crease in average class size can be minimized. Let me begin by making clear a number of assumptions underlying my argument. · Assumptions The quality of Union's educational experience inside the classroom is -very high. This is so largely because of the enthusiasm, energy, · com- mitment, and learning that faculty bring to the classroom. (As one colleague who came here from a university said, this is a place where people take themselves and their teaching seriously.) Adding their many obligations outside the classroom, the vast majority of faculty work close to the limits of their energy and time. Unlike the quality of the educational experience inside the classroom, the quality of the educational experience outside the classroom falls short of the ideal. Furthermore, the College has only recently begun to think about ways to improve the quality of the out-ofoclassroom experience. _ With very · few exceptions, Union faculty enjoy interacting with Students, whether in t11e classroom, in the lab, in the office, in extracurricular ac- tivities, or in informal settings such as receptions and dinners in dorms and other locations. I believe this is the major reason why Union alumni are so very loyal to the College. One must remember, however, tl!at faculty have obligations to themselves and their families. We cannot always be in our offices~ we cannot afford unlimited access \after hours\ and we cannot easily undertake the very serious obligations of friendship even when we all know many students with whom we would like to be friends in a \permanent\ sense. But when those students whom each of us comes to know well come back as alumni, they find that they are remembered with warmth and affection, even if time has fuzzed our recollection of a name. The faces we rarely forget. · Almost all faculty meet the irreducible core of their ''of- fica!\ responsibilities to students in a committed, professional manner. That includes! meeting all scheduled classes, whether healthy, half- healthy or bone-tired (or scheduling make-up classes when illness or professional travel so necessitate); main- taining office hours as an· nounced and leaving notice when circumstances prevent being present; grading exams, papers and other assignme~lts conscientiously and w 1th reasonable dispatch; taking seriously one's responsibilities in advising Pidividual students and student organizations: and ·writing letters of recom- mendation and filling out related forms. Almost all faculty go wen beyond this CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/10, 1986 COMMENTARIES The ''Class Size\ Problem: Problems and Opportunities \irreducible core.\ Union has maintained low class sizes relative to other colleges like us, to say nothing of larger universities. In general, we have had relatively few large lecture courses. At the same time we have offered a curriculum notable for some very valuable \small class\ experiences, for example, the Freshman Preceptorial and the senior project which several departments require. If no action were taken to ameliorate the effects of the teaching load reduction, the number of course offerings could be expected to drop by about 14 percent. This is ·a significant decrease and students have a right to be concerned about such a decrease. There are measures which can be taken, some of which have already been taken, which can minimize the un- desirable consequences of the reduction in teaching load. Assuming some of those steps are taken, the actual and potential benefits of the teaching load reduction far outweigh the costs. Rationale for a Reduction In Teaching Load The decision to reduce the teaching load at Union was based on a recognition that an increase in job demands over the years had pushed the faculty to a point where it was almost impossible to maintain a high level of performance to say nothing of one's sanity. There are only so many evenings and so many weekends that one can work without eventually retreating into minimal per- formance of one's respon- sibilities. As is the case in all institutions, it was the most conscientious and dedicated who were the first to approach the point at which demands and responsibilities outweigh resources. The reasons why faculty responsibilities increased over the years are many, and most have a strong relation to the fact that Union is in many ways a stronger institution than it was 20 years ago. Institutional pressures as well as peer· pressure and student ex- pectations have all reinforced the natural desire to do well in the classroom. In general I believe that the energy that goes into teaching and into serious teaching-related in- teraction with students has greatly increased over time. At the same time the College has created an elaborate system of faculty. evaluation. This .system makes great demands on faculty time, the time of those who do the evaluating and those who are evaluated. It also functions to increase the level of expectations in all categories of faculty performance. At a time in which colleges are cl)mpeting aggressively for money and students, faculty are increasingly drawn into efforts to help the College put its best foot forward, by contributing their ideas or their labor. Whether the task is seeking foundation support, formulating responses to . college guidebooks~ participating in recruiting weekends for minority students, student athletes, or top scholars, or speaking to alwnni, faculty are deeply involved. Finally, ex- pectations reg a rdi.ng scholarship and professional involvement have increased steadily over the years. Tliis · component of the faculty role is sometimes a tempting target for those few who naively believe that active scholarship is incompatible with a com- mitment to teaching. Granted, in any college there may be found a' few exceptional in- dividuals wbo can maintain intellectual vigor and critical facility in the absence of any active program of research and publication. But for the vast majority, a retreat from the obligation to submit one's work to the judgment of one's professional peers leads to a deterioration in the very capacities which are central to the purposes of academic life. To put the argument in the vernacular, such a retreat can cause one's mind to turn to· mush. Such a mind is of no more use inside the classroom than outside the classroom. The significance of an overburdened faculty for the weU-being of Union is in large part selfmevident. The quality of faculty performance in all roles was threatened. This posed a special danger to the College, given that we were competing with schools with lower teaching loads. Forfacultyto I:Je placed in a position where we would have been forced to give less attention to each course, to be less accessible to students, to be less able to \pitch in\ to ti·y to improve the quality of life at Union would not only have been wrong, it would have threatened the College's competitive position. To give one specific example, it would have been much more difficult for faculty to give time to such worthwhile student ventures as last win- ter's public speaking com- petition and informal dormitory gatherings and dinners. These are things that many faculty like to do, but our ability to become involved in such events was being seriously eroded. If one believes that there is a special need to ·imprQve the quality of the Union education outside the classroom, as I do, such a need can only be met if faculty have the tbne to make occasional, but important contributions as speakers, panelists, advisers, catalysts, and \cheerleaders\. WaystoDeal With Problems Associated With a Reduction in Teaclting Load Having decided to reduce the teaching load of faculty, and consequently, the number of courses available to students, the College is faced with how best to minimize any problems thus created. There is no single. step that is adequate for this purpose. _However, there are . various steps, all or some of which can constitute a package which would make any ill ef- fects almost negligible. My own package would consist of the following: 1) In the short run add ad- ditional sections in areas where the greatest enrollment pressure exists. (This has already been done for the spring term, but it cannot continue as a viable long-term policy). 2) Reduce the size of the student body by a total of 100 students by enrolling 25 fewer freshmen each year. (The College is already moving in this d·irection as only 508 students were enrolled in the Class of 1989 and the target fo~ the Class of 1990 is 510 students.) Reducing the size of entering classes has the ad- ditional advantage of main· taining the quality of thOse classes at a time in which the James IJ11derwood is. Profossor of PoliticitlSCience pool of applicants is shri$ing. 3) Continue with plans to add the additional faculty slots which have already been authorized. 4) Encourage the creation of some large-enrollment courses as a way of preserving the small enrollment courses which are so essential to the concept of a liberal arts ·college, for example, the ,Freshman Preceptorial, seminars in the major, and senior theses. In my view, it is very important that we not sacrifice our . small enrollment courses in a vain attempt to avoid all large enrollment courses. The un- derlying idea here is that most of our courses remain as moderate-sized courses (20 to 40 students), and that small courses (under 20) be balanced by large courses (40 to 100). The Political Science Department has taken its first .step in this direction with the creation of a new course now being offered for the first time (enrollment is 75). We are now considering creating a second such course .which would give freshman and sophomo~:e majors and non- majors an additional \place to go\ and thus help us maintain moderate and small enrollments in existing courses. 5) Consider reducing the graduation requirement from 36 courses to 34 courses. Although this proposal has in the past drawn objections from some, I believe it is well worth con- sidering on educational grounds as well as practical grounds. One way in which a reduction of one course could be achieved would be to adopt the \Gado calendar\ (three ten week tenns with the winter term being divided into two five week segments) and to stretch the Freshman Preceptorial into a fifteen week period, allowing both more depth and more breathing space between classes. Under this system Freshmen could take eight courses rather than nine. As to objections that we would weaken our educational program by reducing graduation . requirements, I would point out that many excellent institutions require less than 36 courses for graduation. Furthermore a stretched-out Freshman :Preceptorial could well con- stitute a more vigorous ex- perience. 6) Attempt to devise ways in which juniors and seniors can 'experiment with less con- ventional ways 'of learning not requiring a classroom course. The possibility of requiring one . \readings course\ for each student is one option that might be explored. Taking any combination of four of the above. steps would in my judgment be sufficient so as to reduce the side effects of a teaching load reduction to relative insignificance. Fur- thermore I believe all the. steps make sense on educational grounds as well as larger strategic grounds. Conclusion In th.e face of the many criticisms voiced by students during the winter term,. some of them justified, I cannot resist saying what it is that is good about Union and asserting my belief that we will emerge from our turmoil a stronger in- stitution, partly because of the reduction in faculty teaching load and partly because we are rediscovering the value of dialogue between st11dents and administration' and between students and faculty. Union is speical in at least two ways. The first is that we depart from the typical liberal arts college in combining a strong com- mitment to teaching with curricular diversity, a heavy emphasis on terms abroad and a variety of internship ex- periences, and a faculty deeply involved in scholarly pursuits. In this sense we offer students the best of both worlds by avoiding the dangers of the obsessive involvement by faculty in professional activities which is found in. many universities and the smug self- satisfaction and parochial outlook of the prototypical pipe- smoking, tweed jacketed small college professor protrayed in movies and on television. The seond way· in which Union is special is that we have the many opportunities presented by the presence of an engineering division within the liberal arts context. We are still in the early stages of a long- overdue attempt to take full advantage of this fact. Given the central role of technology in modern society Union is ideally suited to educate students to an Continued on page 18 Tactics Questioned Continued from page 11 kitchen was now Spotless, and was not reinspected, bu~ was shutdown on the grounds that it failed inspection two weeks ago. This leads me to question if security was actually con- cerned about our health, or was merely flexing its muscle. Having learned our lesson that the kitchen must be thoroughly cleaned before leaving for break, we scoured the kitchen from top to bottom before spring break. This time we easily passed the kitchen inspection that too~ place during spring break. However, we returned to the house after break to find once again that, the gas in the kitchen had been turned off. There was no note in my mailbox, other than we had passed inspection. Puzzled, thinking maybe a mistake had been made, I called security to inquire as to why the gas had been shut off. At this point, I was informed that Delta Chi, had failed their inspection, and since our gas valves were connected, the gas must be shut off in both our houses. 1 felt that this was totally unfair, we had lived up to our end of the bargain, by passing tlle kitchen inspection .. The officer in charge then told me that the only thing I could do was call maintenance and ask them to put in a splitter, but this would take a couple of days. This ieads me to several questions for security. If you wanted to deal in good faith with us, like we had done with you, why didn't YOU ask main- tenance to put in the splitter in before we returned from break? And most of all, why wasn't I informed immediately?, I shouldn't have had to call you. I cannot end this letter without saying that I have received little or no cooperation from security, during the problems I have encountered as a fraternity president. Security would be a. lot better off~ if you made the effort to work with the students iDstead of against them. Respectfully submitted, · Jim:B.,awley . President, Sigma Chi

in can con- not of in as of a to of my in- the are of is the in ex- by the by all in ion an an to by do in I I m a CONCORDIENSIS,Apri/10, 1986 Linton Friends of Music and the Linton High School Music · Department are sponsoring two concerts with an outstanding selection of popular and classical music. The first will be · presented by the CRANE JAZZ ENS EM aLE on Monday, April . 14, at 8:00p.m. 'in the Linton High School audi1orium. The second will be given by FRANK IOGHA, .pianist, on Thursday, April 17, at 8:00 p.m. in the Union College Memorial· Chapel. Tickets for students are $2.00 for either concert or $3.00 for • both concerts and .are available from Professor Scaife or at the door the night of each concert. LONDO·N e INTERNSHIPS • Art/Architecture • Busil'less/Economics ·Journalism/Mass Communications ·Politics Semester'programs mclude 16 cred1ts. 9-week internship. apartments. British faculty. All ,programs offered Fall and Spring: Politics and Journalism Mass Communications also offered Summer. - BOSTON UNIVERSITY --------~------~~----------~- NAME---~-----~- PHONE_ ADDRESS _______ ~ I l-~- CITY---,-----~STATE ___ ZIP ___ _ Art Archtteclure Journalism Mass Communicaltons Busmess Econorntcs Polll1cs - .. Summer '86 _. _ Fa11'86 _ Spring '87 _ Summer '87 Return To Lonclvn lnte(nsh•~s 143 Bay State Ad Bos1on MA 02215 t617J 353-9688 The Biology Departinent and Biology Club Present \Plant Compound Stimulates Mam.maHan ·Reproduction\ TUESDAY, APRIL 15, 1986, 4:30 p.m.-Room SS115 George Butterstein, Ph.D. and Margaret Schadler, Ph.D. . REFRESHMENTS 4:00 p.m. DeAngelo's Ristorante · 1510 Cry~sler Ave. 393-4512 PIZZA (8, 12, 24 cut) HOT & COlD SUBS DINNERS (Steak, Lasagna) . APPRIZERS (Wings, Salad.) * $1 Off on Pizza *Free Delivery * Wehonor Major Credit Cards on deliveries too! GRADUATES CALL 1--800-457-4065 FOR ··400A PRE-APPRO ·D CREDIT ONA It's Easy To Qualify For $400 from Ford Motor Company • You must receive at least a _bachelor's degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986. For Pre .. approved Credit from Ford Credit • You must have verifi .. able employment that begins within 120 days of your qualifying vehi .. cle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordi ... nary living expenses and your vehicle payment'. • Your credit record, if you have one, tnust indi ... cate payment tnade as agreed. FORD • And don't forget ... you must receive at least a bachelor's degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and Sep .. tember 30, 1986. These Vehicles Are Included In The Plan Ford~ Escort, Escort EXP, Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri, Cougar Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II, Ranger, f .. 150 & F .. 250 'You are eligible for $400 even if you don't finance your purchase. Use it toward your down pay .. ment or get a check from Ford after the purchase or lease. The amount of your pre .. approved credit is deter .. mined by the qualified .. vehicle you buy. If a vehicle is not in dealer stock, it tnust be ordered by June 1, 1986. Delivery of all vehicles must be taken by August 31, 1986. For complete details on how to get your $400 plus pre .. approved credit, call the toll .. free number today. 1-800-4 5 7-4065 Page 13 All Budgets ·for student activities ·due April . 25th by 5:00 p.:m. Budgets ·turned in . after this deadline run the ·,risk of no student activities funding for the 1986-87 academic year._ THE . . WRITING CENTER Old Chapel, 2nd floor Phone 6058 New Hours For Spring Term Mon.-Thurs., 2-4:30, 7-10:00 p.m. Sunday 7-10:00 p.m. !hun i(t·•w I fi9 .I a\ .'int·t·t Handmade Stiver Jewelry. Imported Indian Clothes & Grfls. A Complete line of Ptpes & Smoking Accessories. Rock T's and Assorted Rock Group Items

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 THE ARTS Suzanne Vega Visits Capital Land By 209 SEWARD PLACE On Sunday, March 30, up and coming recording artist Suzanne Vega graced upstate New York with a concert in the \1cNeil Room on the RPI ·ampus. Taking a break from a series of appearances in the New York City area, including the Metropolitan Music A wards and two shows at Stony Brook, Suzanne made the trek to this musically overlooked area for a brief but thoroughly en- tertaining concert. Brought up in East Green- wich Village and a graduate of Barnard in Manhattan, Suzanne plays her own unique style of fnlk music. Her unusual and simple lyrics along with her captivating voice and extensive use of acoustic guitar, have made her refreshing brand of new music very popular on many college campuses. After an opening show by two New York musicians inspired by tropical fruit and sub-atomic particles, Suzanne came out with a band of four including a female druprmer. She opened with a new tune that she sang acappella, called \Tom's Diner\. Aside from singing all of the songs from her album, she aired six new tunes, in- cluding the opener. Among these were \Calypso\, which offered a unique view of the character of Calypso in Homer's Odessy, and a pair of songs about little children: \Luca\ and \Danella\. While many are probably familiar with Suzanne's latest release: \Left of Center\ from the Pretty in Pink soundtrack, these other songs are ·just as good if not better and will soon find similar audiences. Mid-concert, after mumbling something about cutting down on her stage banter, she went into a short explanation of \Marlene on the Wall\. She ex:plained how one day she had sat in front of an old T.V. waiting for the picture to come on so that she could view an old Ma.rlene Deitrich movie. Although unfamiliar with Marlene Deitrich, she turned the dial, listening to the audio, trying to find the movie without image! In so doing, she came across a channel where a man's voice declared something to the effect of: \Do you realize that you have sent a thousand men to their graves with that body? \ ••• at Proctor's Theatre As she sat wondering what her response would have been, . Marlene Deitrich appeared on the screen and responded with \Give me a kiss, baby.\ Suzanne then looked up, grin· ned, said \I had picture of Marlene on my wall for a while after that,\ and then went into \Marlene On the Wall.\ Suzanne's appearance in the capital district will hopefully spark some interest in new music in the area. She is, a musician that is surviving only through support from college radio · stations. SlWanne is a known innovator in her field who continues to bring pleasure to a small following while the general public remains unaware of her talent. For those interested in hearing more Suzanne Vega,WRPI recorded the concert for a possible broadcast in the near future. If all goes as planned, the concert broadcast date will be announced on 'More · Songs About Buildings and Food' Wednesdays on WRUC at 10:00 p.m. ( ··WRUC } 89.7 fm STEREO . 16 THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ . . WRUC is back on the air after a two week vacation playing Schenectady's best new music. This week's Top 8.97: No. Album Name Artist Label 1-Pretty in Pink Soundtrack AIM · 2- The Blind Leading the Naked Violent Femmes-slash 3-In A Different Light The Bangles-ColUII1bia 4-Mars Needs Guitars Hoodoo Gurus-Big Time 5-8ongs To Learn And Sing Echo & The Bunnymen-sire 6-Anixnal Magic The Bl9w Monkeys-· RCA 7 -12\ single David Bowie-EMI 8-Killer Lords Lords of The New Church-IRS 8.97-Big Plans For Everybody Let's Active-IRS Top Adds: Bryan Ferry/Laurie Anderson A new Executive Board has been elected and the new positions are alphabetically: Tom Coleman · Business Manager Scott Elkind General Manager Ben Ignacio Programming Manager John Morgan Promotional Manager Anton Srdanovic Technical Manager The new Board of Directors alphabetically: John Bak Production Director Alex Gardner Sports Director Eric Maniloff News Director Conrad Tatge Music Director Additionally, Chris Chilas has been appointed Assistant Music Director. Programming Notes: LaCageAux Folies The TOP 8.97 can be heard Wednesday nights at 8:00p.m .... Watch out for the WRUC spring term show schedule next week ... -Compiled by Conrad Tatge By JOAN GOTLW The musical comedy, \Le Cage aux Folies\ played from April 1 to April 6 at Proctor's Theater in Schenectady. Featuring Peter Marshall as Georges and Keene Curtis as Albin, the show was directed by Arthur Laurents who won the Tony Award for his outstanding direction of the musical 'Le Cage aux Foiles'. It was produced by Allan Carr which marks his debut as a Broadway producer. Mr. Carr is also known for his musical movie debut, 'Grease', starring John Travolta and Olivia Newton- John. Based on the play, \Le Cage aux F..olles\ by Jean Poiret, the story is set in St. Tropez, France and the time is summer. Le Cage aux Foiles is a night club of glamour and bizarre entertainment. \Les Cagelles\ are beautiful women who dance and sigg in gorgeous, elaborate costumes. But their glorified female presence is an illusion, because most of the performers are men dressed as women. The question is, who are the males and who are the females? Behind the scenes of the nightclub act, runs a story of romance and comedy. George's, who is the manager of Le Cage,. son, Jean-Michael, announces his engagement to a young lady. The conflict arises when Jean-Michael wants his parents to meet the parents of his fiancee. Jean-Michael's real parents are divorced and hiS homosexual father has been· living with a transvestite lover, h'!f--- r.:6' ~.#~\\'\\'~~:-io.'l-f'..,;o~.;~.n~IJ>':..'...,.__ •to·; Albin, for the past twenty years. Georges and Albin consider themselves as Jean-Michael's real parents since they brought him up together. But Jean• Michael does not want his future in-laws to meet Albin who thinks he is the real mother. Jean-Michael wants to invite his maternal mother and leave Albin out of the little \Soiree\. Of course, this causes a great deal of upset and con- fusion, especially during the actual meeting between the two sets of parents, minus Jean- Michael's real mother, added Albin, dressed as his mother! The story was carried out perfectly with entertaining music, dance, and hilarious dialog ;:1nd acting. The sets were well-designed to fit the scenes and the costumes were ab- solutely dazzling, one of the outstanding features of the play. 'I'he character of Albin was well acted. His magnificant voice and acting gave a great deal of meaning to the songs, \I Am What I Am\ and \A Little More Mascara\. Georges. was the perfect romantic figure for Albin, making the audience believe in their relationship as if they were man and woman. He beautifully sang the romantic songs, \Look Over There'' .and \Song On the Sand\ with feeling and depth. Overall, \Le .Cage aux Folies\ was a wonderful triumph. It was an exciting and entertaining professional performance. The ex- traordinary costumes and make-up of \Les Cagelles\ created a humorous puzzle throughout the show until the performers came out on stage at the end, in their street clothes. The lively music and bawdy sense of homo:r was delightful and funny. The show overwhelmed us With color, dazzle, hilarious comedy, great songs and wonderful dance. All one could do was to immerse oneself into the fantastic feast and be thoroughly entertained. W:ientann' s (!11£aners & W:uilurs }lito. NOW 2 LOqATIONS TO SERVE YOU Wiemann !i D'Ar jay's 1714 UNION STREET 1621 UNION STREET PHONE 374-6647 PHOf.tl: 393·0917 Specializing in Suede & Leather Cleaning Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome PHONES: 372.7270 370-373!5 HOME STYLE PIZZA fi\EATURING ORDERS TO T._KE OUT COP!t. UNION STREET • VAN .A.NTVVERF!i FlO. SCJo1EN!:CTAOY. N. Y .

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 THE ARTS Suzanne Vega Visits Capital Land By 209 SEWARD PLACE On Sunday, March 30, up and coming recording artist Suzanne Vega graced upstate :'>lew York with a concert in the VlcNeil Room on the RPI ·ampus. Taking a break from a ,;eries of appearances in the New York City area, including the Metropolitan Music A wards and two shows at Stony Brook, Suzanne made the trek to this musically overlooked area for a brief but thoroughly en- tertaining concert. Brought up in East Green- wich Village and a graduate of Barnard in Manhattan, Suzanne plays her own unique style of fnlk music. Her unusual and simple lyrics along with her captivating voice and extensive use of acoustic guitar, have made her refreshing brand of new music very popular on many college campuses. After an opening show by two New York musicians inspired by tropical fruit and sub-atomic particles, Suzanne came out with a band of four including a female drw.nmer. She opened with a new tune that she sang acappella, called \Tom's Diner\. Aside from singing all of the songs from her album, she aired six new tunes, in- cluding the opener. Among :- -·' ;;- ·;;;- . __ ,_::i ->1 ;::-_.1-_ these were \CalYPso\, which offered a unique view of the character of Calypso in Homer's Odessy, and a pair of songs about little children: \Luca\ and \Danella\. While many are probably familiar with Suzanne's latest release: \Left of Center\ from the Pretty in Pink soundtrack, these other songs are just as good if not better and will soon find similar audiences. Mid-concert, after mumbling something about cutting down on her stage hanter, she went into a short explanation of \Marlene on the Wall\. She explained how one day she had sat in front of an old T.V. waiting for the picture to come on so that she could view an old Marlene Deitrich movie. Although unfamiliar with Marlene Deitrich, she turned the dial, listening to the audio, trying to find the movie without image! In so doing, she came across a channel where a man's voice declared something to the effect of: \Do you realize that you have sent a thousand men to their graves with that body?\ ••• at Proctor's Theatre As she sat wondering what her response would have been, Marlene Deitrich appeared on the screen and responded with \Give me a kiss, baby.\ Suzanne then looked up, grin- ned, said \I had picture of Marlene on my wall for a while after that,\ and then went into \Marlene On the Wall.\ Suzanne's appearance in the capital district will hopefuUy spark some interest in new music in the area. She is a musician that is surviving only through support from college radio stations. Suzanne is a known innovator in her field who continues to bring pleasure to a small following while the general public remains unaware of her talent. For those interested in hearing more Suzanne Vega,WRPI recorded the concert for a possible broadcast in the near future. If all goes as planned, the concert broadcast date will be announced on 'More Songs About Buildings and Food' Wednesdays on WRUC at 10:00 p.m. ( ·WRUC ) 89.7 fm STEREO SCHENECTADY .. THE F'IRST STATION IN THE NATiON\ WRUC is back on the air after a two week vacation playing Schenectady's best new music. This week's Top8.97: No. Albunt Name Artist Label l~Pretty in Pink Soundtrack AIM 2- The Blind Leading the Naked Violent Femmes-Slash 3-In A Different Light The Bangles-Columbia 4-Mars Needs Guitars Hoodoo Gurus-Big Time 5-8ongs To Learn And Sing Echo & The Bunnymen-Sire 6-AnimalMagic The Blow Monkeys-RCA 7 -12\ siRgle David Bowie-EMI 8-Killer Lords Lords of The New Church-IRS 8.97-Big Plans For Everybody Let's Active-IRS Top Adds: Bryan Ferry/Laurie Anderson A new Executive Board has been elected and the new positions are alphabetically: Tom Coleman Business Manager Scott Elkind General Manager Ben Ignacio Programming Manager John Morgan Promotional Manager Anton Srdanovic Technical Mana~er The new Board of Directors alphabetically: John Bak Production Director Alex Gardner Sports Director Eric Maniloff News Director Conrad Tatge Music Director Additionally, Chris Chilas has been appointed Assistant Music Director. Programming Notes: La Cage Aux Folies The TOP 8.97 can be heard Wednesday nights at 8:00p.m .... Watch out for the WRUC spring term show schedule next week ... Compiled by Conrad Tatge By JOAN GOTLm The musical comedy, \Le Cage aux Foiles\ played from April 1 to April 6 at Proctor's Theater in Schenectady. Featuring Peter Marshall as Georges and Keene Curtis as Albin, the show was directed by Arthur Laurents who won the Tony Award for his outstanding direction of the musical 'Le Cage aux Foiles'. It was produced hy Allan Carr which marks his debut as a Broadway producer. Mr. Carr is also known for his musical movie debut, 'Grease', starring John Travolta and Olivia Newton- John. Based on the play, \Le Cage aux Foiles\ by Jean Poiret, the story is set in St. Tropez, France and the time is summer. Le Cage aux Folles is a night club of glamour and bizarre entertainment. \Les Cagelles\ are beautiful women who dance and sil}g in gorgeous, elaborate costumes. But their glorified female presence is an illusion, because most of the performers are men dressed as women. The question is, who are the males and who are the females? Behind the scenes of the nightclub act, runs a story of romance and comedy. George's, who is the manager of Le Cage, son, Jean-Michael, announces his engagement to a young lady. The conflict arises when Jean-Michael wants his parents to meet the parents of his fiancee. Jean-Michael's real parents are divorced and his homosexual father has been living with a transvestite lover, .. ._ ~··,>J·,·~-.,.;.,~- .,._...,. ... -. , ..• ~.-. '•·-\· ' ... Albin, for the past twenty years. Georges and Albin consider themselves as Jean-Michael's real parents since they brought him up together. But Jean- Michael does not want his future in-laws to meet Albin who thinks he is the real mother. Jean-Michael wants to invite his maternal mother and leave Albin out of the little \Soiree\. Of course, this causes a great deal of upset and con- fusion, especially during the actual meeting hetween the two sets of parents, minus Jean- Michael's real mother, added Albin, dressed as his mother! The story was carried out perfectly with entertaining music, dance, and hilarious dialog and acting. The sets were well-designed to fit the scenes and the costumes were ab- solutely dazzling, one of the outstanding features of the play. The character of Albin was well acted. His magnificant voice and acting gave a great deal of meaning to the songs, \I Am What I Am\ and \A Little More Mascara\. Georges was the perfect romantic figure for Albin, making the audience believe in their relationship as if they were man and woman. He beautifully sang the romantic songs, \Look Over There\ and \Song On the Sand\ with feeling and depth. Overall, \Le Cage aux Folies\ was a wonderful triumph. It was an exciting and entertaining professional performance. The ex- traordinary costumes and make-up of \Les Cagelles\ created a humorous puzzle throughout the show until the performers came out on stage at the end, in their street clothes. The lively music and bawdy sense of homor was delightful and funny. The show overwhelmed us with color, dazzle, hilarious comedy, great songs and wonderful dance. All one could do was to immerse oneself into the fantastic feast and be thoroughly entertained. Wicntnun' s Qilcauers & '<rrailors JUtl't. ' NOW 2 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU WiEmann' .6 D'Ar jay's 1714 UNION STREET 1621 UNION STREET PHONE 374-6647 PHONE 393-0917 SpeCializing in Suede & Leather cleaning Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome PHONES· 372-7270 370-3735 HOME STYLE PIZZA ,.-!:ATURING ORDERS TO TAKIE OUT COJIIIt. UNION STR!:!:T a VAN ANTW!:Rr= RO. SCHENECTADY. N. V. -. ·-- -- -·--------!!!!+-~~;11Ulioioo-~--_.,..--------~--·~-· ! • I 1

CONCORDIENSIS, April 10, 1986 Page 15 THE ARTS The Concert Committee Presents ... I Stanley_Jordan Editor's Note: The Union College Concert Committee is proud to announce the exclusive area appearance of Stanley Jordan, April 23, l986, at the Memorial Chapel, Union College. The provided profile of this fine musician is courtesy of the Concert Com- mittee and Manhattan Records. Rarely does a musician come along to change the face ·Of music by totally redefining his instrument. Charlie Christian liberated the guitar from its rhythm section status, transfon:ning it into a powerful solo voice that stood toe to toe with any horn for volume, drive and Clarity. Jimi Hendrix took the same six-string instrument to the stratosphere with his uncanny, instinctual knack of harnessing electronics to fuel his other- worldly ideas. And now comes Stanley Jordan. This gifted 25-year-old guitarist, the first new artist to be signed by Blue Note, is pioneering new ground on the instrument, extending its parameters and taking it to the next incremental step. His ambitious experiments are well documented on his Blue Note debut; Magic Touch. Jordan's revolutionary two- handed tapping technique has opened up a new world of possiblities for generations .of guitarists to come. By deftly incorporating a pianistic ap- proach on .the guitar fretboard he is able to get chordal voicings and or~hestral tex- tures that were previously only possible on a keybbard. With independent use of both hands, Stanley can accomplish the uncanny feat of accompanying himself. There is almost no strumming or picking in Stanley Jordan's unorthodox technique. Instead, he taps the strings with his fingers in much the same way as a pianist strikes the keys. Rather that anchoring his right hand, as most guitarists do, Stanley's right hand roams the fretboard with as much freedom and conviction as his left hand. In effect, he has ten fingers available for double duty on the fretboard. A PilL Campus Paperback Bestsellers 1. The Colcw Purple, by Alic:e Walker. (Washington Sciua~ · Press, $5.95.) Winner of the 1983 American Book Award~ . 2. Out of Africa M1d S~ on ·IM G...., by lsak Dinesen. (Vintage, $4.95.) Rememberances of life in Kenya. 3. H Tomorrow Comes, by Sidney Sheldon. (Wamer, $4.95.) A world of wealth, dangerous exploits and na\ow escapes. 4. SUIWiy You're Joldnsl Mr. Feynmanl, by Richard P. Feynman. (Bantam, $4.50.) Exploits of try_e Nobel prize-winning scientist. 5. The Roed Leu TI'IIN!ed. by M .. Scott Peck. (Touchstone, $8.95.) Psychological and spiritual inspiration by a psychiatrist I. Ylllley olthe Fw Skit, by Gary Larson. (Andi'8W$, McMeel & Parker, $5:95,) And still more cartoons from the FarSide . . 7. Femlly Album, by Danielle Steel. (Dell. $4.50.) Family life in. today's America. 8. The Cbnoftht C.. Sew, by Jean M. Auel. (Bantam. $4.95.) ·Beginning of tne saga continued In The Valley of the Hor&es. I. The Cfilll, by Erich Segal. (Bantam. $4.50.) Tracking five members of Harvard's class of 1958. 10. 'J.hl Bridge A1n1N Forwtr, by Richard Bach. (Dell, $3.95.) There is such a thing a a soulmate. New & Recommended Thou Shalt Not Be Anre, by Alice Miller. (NAL/Meridian, $8.95.) Dr. Miller's ideas bring a neW, essential understanding in confronting and treating the devastation of child abuse. ...._. ~ by Jonathan Kozol. (NAL/Piume, $6.95.) With ~Jon and eloql.ierice, .reveals a devastating truth of domeatic illiteracy and tells us what we can lind ,must do about this national disaster. Moments on lbplt· Annue, by Louise Kapp Howe. (Warner, $3.95.) Takes you inside a typical abortion clinic and documents the heartrending dramu encountered on a typical day. Introducing the Film Festival on Wedne·sday Evenings This week's film .... 11 Five Easy Pieces\ SSOl6 •1~9, 11 ip.m .. With his left hand sounding chords while covering bass lines, his right hand fingers tap- out crips, bell-like single note lines and arpeggios with in- comprehensible speed and agility. For the average guitarist, whose hand act sympathetically, the effect is mind-boggling, often sounding like two or three guitarists at work. And Stanley achieves those multi·tectured con- trapuntal lines without relying on electronic devices. No harmonizers or pitch tran- sposers, no verdubs or studio tricks, it's all done live on guitar. The magic on Magic Touch is not in machinery but in the head, heart and hands of this remarkable young man. There are no guitar overdubs on the nine cuts from Magic Touch, which were produced by guitar virtuoso Al DiMeola. Despite what your ears might tell you, there is only one guitarist on this album. All the guitar sollhds contained on this auspicious debut are created live by Stanley Jordan, proving that two hands are indeed better than one. There is currently an The project a,ssignment was to exhibition titled \Love-Hate\ select subject matter or an idea by Photography I students in that the student loves or hates, the student photography gallery and to express the love or hate located on the second floor of in the photographs. The work of the Arts Building. The exhibit is Thomas Campbell, Eric a selection of work by six Colsman, Joshua Hooker, members of the winter term Jennifer Kilcoyne, Diamantina section, and the work shown is Loupessis, and Cara Taback is the result of their final project. included in the show. Swing with the Big. Band Sound The Union College Jazz Ensemble will be joined by the Ron Partch-Le\Y Petteys Band, the Mellowtones, in a concert of Big Band music. Music of Glenn Miller, Harry James, Count Basie, Woody Herman and others will be presented along with contemporary material, some composed and arranged by the musicians in the Partch· Petteys band. The two groups will join together for a massed finals. · The Union Jazz Ensemble is a frequent performer at various college functions. The Partch- Petteys band has played at the Parents Weekend Dance in the past imd will be there again this May. Composed of local professional musicians, the Partch-Petteys band's ap- pearance at this concert is made possible in part by sup- port from the Music Per- formance Trust Funds, as arranged by the Schenectady Musicians Union. Lawrence Boylan, WMHT, will be master of ceremonies. The concert is open to the public, free of charge. Senior Recital of JoAnn Berger Thursday, April 17 8:00p.m. Arts Building Room 215

1 1 I I l I l I .! ·I I I ! I I i I l 1 I ! l \ . ! \ . I ' ! • J l I CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 Page IS THE ARTS The Concert Committee :Presents ... Stanley Jordan Editor's NBte: The Ullion College Concert Committee is proud to announce the exclusive area appearance of Stamey Jordan, April 23, 1986, at the Memorial Chapel, Union Crtllege. The provided profile ()f this fine musician is courtesy of the Concer.t Com- mittee a11d Manhattan Rec()rds. Rarely does a musician c0me along to change the face of music by totally redefining his instrument. Charlie Christian liberated the guitar from its rhythm section status, transforming it into a powerful solo voice that stood toe to toe with any horn for volume, drive and clarity. Jimi Hendrix took the same six-string instrument to the stratosphere with his uncanny, instincttlal knack of harnessing electronlcs to fuel his other- worldly ideas. And now comes Stanley Jordan. This gifted 25-year-old guitarist, the first new artist to be signEd by Blue Note, is pioneeri11g new ground on the instrument, extending its parameters and taking it to the next incvemental step. His ambitiolls e::xperiments are well documented. on his Blue Note debut, Magic Touch. Jordan's revohttionary two- handed tapping technique has opened up a new world of possiblities for generations of guitarists to come. By deftly incorporati~tg a pianistic ap- proach on tile guitar fretboard he is al>le to get ch0rdal voicings and orchestral tex- tures that were previously only possible on a keyb'oard. With independent use of bgtil hands, Stanley cam accomplish the uncanny feat of accompanying himself. There is <1lmost no strumming or picking in Stanley Jordan's unorthodo11: technique. Instead, he taps t:he strings with his fingers i11 mach the same way as a pianist strikes the keys. Rather that a11choring his right hand, as m()st guitarists do, Stanley's right hand roams the fretboarct. with as much freedom and conviction as his left hand.. In effect, he has ten fingers available for dguble duty on thoe fretboard. A PAIL Campus ·Paperba~~ Bestsellers · 1. Tho Color Purple, by Alice Walker. (Wastlingt:on Square Press, $5.95.) Winner of the 1983 Americam Book Award. 2. Out of Africa lnd SIMdowl on the Grau, by lsak Dinesen. (Vintage, $4.95.) Rememberances of life In Ke-nya. 3. If Tomorrow Comes, by Sidney Sheldon. (\Aiamer, $4.95.) A world of wealth, dangerous exploits and narrow escapes. 4. Surely You',. Joking Mr. Feynm~~nl, by Rich~rdP. Feynman. (Bantam. $4.50.) Exploits of tl}e Nobel priz&-~Yi~ning scientist. 5. TIM Road lAN Travoled, by M. Scott Peele. (Touchstone. $8.95.) Psychologicai and spiritual inspiration l>yo a psychiatrist. I. VMiey of the Fw Side, by Gary Larson. (Andre-ws, McMeel & Parker, $5.95.) And still more cartoons frCHll tl:le Far Side. 7. Fanly Album, by Oanielle S~. (Dell, $4.~.) Family life in today's America. 8. The Clan of the C.. Bear, by Jean M. Auel. (S.Sntam, $4.95.) Beginning of the saga continued In The VaJI~y .oft he Horses . 9. TIN a..., by Erich Segal. (Bantam, $4.5D.) Tracking five membero of Harvard's class of 1958. ____ _ 1(1. The Bridge Acroee FOI'ftef', by Richard Bact1. (Dell. $3.95.) There is such a thing as a soulmate. New & Recommended- ThOll Shllll Not Be AWIIre, by Alice Miller. (NAUM9lridian, $8.95.) l>r. Miller's ideas bring a new, essential understa:ndlng in C<lnfronling and treating the devastation of child alluse. lllleme ~ by Jonathan Kozol. (NAL/P'Iu~M~, $6.95.) With passion and eloquence, reveals a devastating, truth of d-omestic illiteracy and tells us what we can a11d :nuust do about this national disaster. ~on r.hple Av-enue, by Louise Kapp 1-fOVIe. (\Nemer, $3.95.) Takes you Inside a typical abortiOil clinic and d«:uments the heartrending dramas encount&re-d ~ a lypkal day. Introducing the Film Festival on Wednesday Evenings This week's film .... 11 Five Easy Pieces\ 55016 • 7, 9, 11 p.m. With his left hand sounding chol'ds while covering bass lines, his right hand fingers tap- out crips, bell-like single note lines and arpeggios with in- comprehensible speed and agility. For the average guitarist, whose hand act sympathetically, the effect is mind-boggling, often s0unding like two or three guitarists at work. And Stanley achieves those multi-tectured con· trapuntal lines without relying on electronic devices. No harmonizers or pitch tran· sposers, no verdubs or studio tricks, it's all done live on guitar. The magic on Magic Touch is not in machinery but in the !lead, heart and hands of this remarkable young man. There are no guitar overdubs on the nine cuts from Magic Touch, which were produced by guitar virtuoso AI DiMeola. Despite what your ears might tell you, there is only one guitarist on this album. All the guitar sounds contained on this auspicious debut are created live by Stanley Jordan, proving that two hands are indeed better than one. There is currently an The project assignment was to exhibition titled \Love-Hate\ select subject matter or an idea by Photography I students in that the student loves or hates, the student photography gallery and to express the love or hate located on the second floor of in the photographs. The work of the Arts Building. The exhibit is Thomas Campbell, Eric a selection of work by six Colsman, Joshua Hooker, members of the winter term Jennifer Kilcoyne, Diamantina section, and the work shown is Loupessis, and Cara Taback is the result of their final project. included in the show. This -Week in the Arts April tO Oa Campus-Cabaret of Women Performers, Old Chapel at 9t 11 p.m. · Off CmnDus-\Godspell\ at . Music Hall Remsen Street Cohoes. can .7969 thru April 12. Off Campus-' 'The Great Disappearing Act: Germans anti Gen:nan-Amerieans in Albany't at the Albiiny Institute of RisMry and Art, 12 p.m. Call 4634473. . Aprilll On Cam.pus-Movi&-';Clue'' at7,9, 11 p.m. SS016. Thru April 13. On Campus-Coffe~house with f{)lksinger Cathy Winter HHDR-Under 21 Club, 10 p.m. Off Campus-''Schooner Fore\-Irish Music Cafe Lena, Philadelphia Street Saratoga Springs, 8:36p.m. April12 00 Campus-schenectady Symphony Orchestra at Proctor's Theatre, g p.m. Aprill3 Ott Campus-Union College Jazz Ensemble with Partch~ Petteys. Orchestra, f3ig Band Orchestra with M.C. Lawrence Boylan~ Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Off Campus---~ (Great Expectations\ at Proctor's Theatre, 7 p.m. Aprlll4 Off Campus---Mstislav Rostropovich performs cello at Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m. Off Campus-Film: \My Brillant Career\ Hudson- Mohawk ASSQciation of Colleges and Universities Off Campus-EBA Dance Theatre Ensemble prlemiers New Childrens Work. Call 465- 9916. . April15 On Campus-Movie \Young Doctors in Love\ SS016, 7, 9, 11 p.m. Off Campus- Two White Chicks Sitting Around Talking\ at Pmctor• s Theatre, thru April 17. Off Campus-Leonard Baskin, illustrator, .Sculptor, Paintor, Printmaker at Albany Institute of History and Art at 3 p.m. Call 4634478. Swing with the Big Band Sound The Union College Jazz Ensemble will be joined by the Ron Partch- Le~ Petteys Band, the Mellowtones, in a concert of Big Band music. Music of Glenn Miller, Harry James, Count Basie, Woody Herman and others will be presented along with contemporary material, some composed and arranged by the musicians in the Partch- Petteys band. The two groups will join together for a massed finals. The Union Jazz Ensemble is a frequent performer at various college functions. The Partch- Petteys band has played at the Parents Weekend Dance in the past and will be there again this May. Composed of local professional musicians, the Partch-Petteys band's ap- pearance at this concert is made possible in part by sup- port from the Music Per- formance Trust Funds, as arranged by the Schenectady Musicians Union. Lawrence Boylan, WMHT, will be master of ceremonies. The concert is open to the public, free of charge. Senior Recital of JoAnn Berger Thursday, April 17 8:00p.m. Arts Building Room 215

. •. •' ' l ' Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 CLASSIF/EDS Union College Child Care Center now accepting Fall 86 Registration .ages 18 mo.-5 years. Registration opens April l-May 1. For information call :370..()573. Seeking 4 peer tutor coun- selors for Union College's Academic Opporfunity Program. · When: July 6 to August 16, 1986 Application Deadline: April 15, 1986 Qualifications:· Upperclass person or graduate as of June; Capable of tutoring in one of the following areas: Chemistry, English-Study Skills, Math-- Precalculus and Basic math. Applications available in the AOP Office, Bailey Hall. Ask for Wanda Torres, 370-6U5. FOUND: One gold bracelet, mounted with colored stones-in Humanities. It is waiting at the Security Office Lost and Found. OCC Student Employement for fall term 1986. The office of Computer Services will soon be interviewing students for Fall Term employment. Positions will be available in six cat- egories: Student Programmer; Student Consultant, Student Technician, Student Operator, Student Clerk, Student Assistant. A Brief description of the duties of each position: Student Progrartuner-Works with regular staff with production software. Must be · competent in at least two languages (COBOL Pascal). Student Consultant-Progr- amming or experience with use of software packages. Not limited to Computer Science majors. . Student Technician-Expe- rience with electricity; elec- tronics as hobby; electrical engineering. Student Operator-Distributes output; operates equipment. (No previous experience required.) · Student Clerk--Works with Documentation Librarian in developing forms and manuals. Miscellaneous office duties. Student Assistant-Clerical assistance to include typing, inputting, errands, xeroxing, filing, attending Service Win- dow, and other gerneral miscellaneous duties as required. June 16, 1986. From April 14, 1986 through the end of Spring term the hours of Special Collections will be: 1:.00 p.m. to · 4:30 p.m. (Monday through Frid'ay). Term papers typed. 1.50 pg. . Fast, neat and accurate. 374- 1720. A social historian trained at · Yale University is researching the diaries of teenage boys for a book, \The Thoughts and Experiences of Teenagers in Modern America.\ He is asking · young men throughout the · United States to allow him to · examine any diaries or personal • journals they have written as teenagers. lie does not want to · know their names. Historial Michael Quinn says, \I want to know what teenagers themselves have thought was important enought to write in a personal record unstructured by adult definitions or ex- pectations.\ · Professor Quinn expects that large numbers of such diaries will show that boys have written little about their feelings, but more about family, friends, · school, entertainment, sports, and other extracurricular activities. For more information write to Professor Michael Quinn, History Department, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602. -, Anonym~us aids testing and services. The New York State Health Department operates a hotline and a screening clinic for peopde who are concerned that they may have been .ex- posed to the HTLV-III virus, the virus associated with AIDS. By calling the HTLV-III Hotline at 457-7152, individuals may obtain information. Professional Typing-Busi• ness teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time, 399-4656. The Natianal Guitar Summer Workshop is proud to announce that a number of the finest guitarists in America will be presenting Master Workshops during our upcoming summer season. The first session will begin on July 12 and subsequent one, two, and three weekelong courses continue through Aug. 24. For more info. contact: Mr. David Smolover, Dr. NGSW, Dept. PR, Box 222, Lakeskide, CT, 06758 or (203) 567-8529. who care. Lonely, serving :time. 4 years in and 4 years to· go. SINCERE INTERESTS. Write soon. 5' 8'', 183 solid lbs._, brown eyes, black hair and handsome black male. Many interests. All responses answered.'' Desmond D. Hall, 82B1342, Box 149, Attica, NY 14011. Anyone interested in joining The Idealis.t staff, there will be a meeting on Monday, April14, at 7:30 in room 218 ZBT. Needed-students interested in doing yar.d work: raking leaves, etc: Call after 6 p.m. 374-7964. •CLUB NEWS Taize Weekend of Recon .. ciliation and Hope-for over forty years Taize, an ecumenical monastic com- munity has been committed ta the search for reconciliation in the human family throughout the earth. Today · it. includes Catholic and Protestant brothers from some twenty countries. Two brothers from the Taize house in \Hell's Kitchen,\ Manhattan, are coming to the Capital District April 11-12 to help lead a local pilgrimage of prayer and hope. Reservations and infonnation- call271-o630 or contact S.R Joan who plans to att.end. . Reception-sunday, April 13, the Newman Club will host a reception for the Union Com- munity in the Rectory of St. John's immediately following the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. Newman Meeting and Social- Monday, April14, at 8 p.m. in 2nd floor Conference Room of Whitaker House. Guest speaker: Rev. Richard Shaw, Professor at Maria College and Chaplain at Albany County Jail and Penitentiary and Ren- Homecoming '86 All students interested in helping with Homecoming Weekend are invited to attend the Homecoming Meeting on Thursday, April 17 4:30p.m. · ss.elaer Jail will dprsk on zp- tidon zminidyty. zsll inbiyrf. · zplrease use rear door. tues 4-15, Young Doctors in Love' at 7, 9, and 11. Wed 4-16;\ Five Easy Pieces · Free at 7, 9, a11d 11. Fol~ Group-All singers and Tickets are available at Old· musicians interested in being . Chapel for $1. - part of the Music Ministry at the · 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday • P. 1 _v'R. S. Q . . N.·ALS· .. may meet with. Friar Paul at . D.. .· '6:30 p.m. in the Ch,urch to ~~~~~~~~!!iii!!!!!!!i rehearse~ Visit to Shut-Ins_:_Any student who wishes to visit a Shut-In from St. John''s parish to bring spring greetings, please contact Sr. Joan 370-6087. Confirmation Practice-- Wednesday, Apt'ill6 at 7 p.m. in St. John's Church for Union students ~nd sponsors. 'J,'rip to Covenant House- Saturday, April19 the Newman Club will sponsor a one-day trip to Covenant House on Times ·. Square, New York. There will be an opportunity to tour the facility, ask questions and to perform some volunteer ser- vices. Anyone interested con- tact Sr. Joan who: will arrange transportation. Bishop's Economic Pastoral- Thursday, April17, at 7:30p.m. in 2nd floor Conference Room of Whitaker House, Professor Harry Murray of the Sociology- Department will give an in- troductory talk on the Bishop's Economic Pastoral. For several weeks following he will continue . to-meet with those who are interested in reading and discussing the entire document. :~~erear __,.:; bLM : : :J Wknd 4-11•13, Clue at 7, 9, and 11. . . Personals· Policy All personals must be sub- mitted on the 'IU.esd~y before Thursday publication to the Concordienses :box. The charge is $.25 per personal. Con- . cordiensis reserves the right to refuse tQ.printany personal and · a refund will be available upon . request. ' Amy, It's really g()od to have you back. After all, what good is one-half of the world without the other! Ramblo- I'm sorry thatyou're having a rough time of things. If there's ever anything r can do to help-I hope you know I!U be here. +K Intrigued Acquaintance, Who are you\? · Curious (Todd) · M and M, I love it whe11 you come to visit us-except could you start beating up the ()ther people in my room too! Welcome back Gamma Phi, · pledges. Get psyched for initiation, it won't be long now. • MARE+ I thought up tbis really neat game we could. play. It's called WOPSCOTCH-Wanna give it a try? That's if we can all agree on the rules! Bloodmobile to be held in Fox LOunge April16, 17, and .• D a.m.· to 5 p.m. For more information, can x6118. f!IIIIIIIIN II II II !IIIII I llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll II II 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111 lllllllilllllllllll!fllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll - 0 0 ~ : . ~ . I ~- ~ ~ ; ~ ~ = - = Applications must be . sub- mitted to the Personnel Office in Silliman Hall no later than May 16, 1986. Application forms are available in the Personnel . Office as well as the Office of Computer Services. Positions are open to Work Study as well as Non-Work Study Students. The Mt. Hood National Forest in the Cascade Range near Portland, Oregon, is looking fQr volunteers to work during the · 1986 field season.- For ap- plications, contact (1) College Placement Office or (2) Linda Goodman, Mt. Hood National Forest, 2955 NW Division Street, Gresham, OR 97030. Socird Sciences Bldg. - Room 016 . E I The hours when the Special Collections of Schaffer Library will be available to the public will be changed from Apri114, 1986 through the end of Spring term. This change will apply only to this time period. Normal hours will be resumed effective . Unit Heads - Specialists - Counselors. For Pre-school and Junior Day Camps and Teen Travel Camp. Western Suffolk. 8-week program. YM- YWHA of / Suffolk, 74 Hauppauge Rd. Conunack, NY 11725 (516) 462- 9800. \Wanted: Seeking correspondence from females WRITING PROBLEMS? Call 6058 Afternoons and Evenings, Monday-Thursday and Sunday Night For more information contact Judy Dimauro- (6743} or Tammy Thomas ~----------------~ THE UNION COLLEGE PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT presents \Causation Responsibility and Risk in Medecine\ April11 , 3:30 p.m. Ken·neth Schaffner University of Pittsburgh utdif.l:efrcJJJe mY-cb ~~~~- ...- ($Pt!e hei~Jel- ~ § = ~ = = : E : E a a = ~ E a = = 'Be-e ! i s ~ i -.-~Sad< I ~ . . . . . . . a/PoP ~·'J·~ ~ ~t~mlllUJI~~tiii!IJIIIIIIIlUII~illlltiill .• llllllliltMIIIIIINNIMIIIIIIII·I·IIIII!IIIIIIIIIIll-li\'*fl~UIIIIIIIIIItil \

. PERSONALS Spud, Doogi.e and T .. Koch Wrestlemania lives! Thanks. Tothe Peach in the Chuc Room Are you waiting for the late nite caller? To the Peach Don't .hold your breath. Trooper Stay away from my wife! ! ! ! ! Confucius don't say. Hey Friske, \ Nice Face Hey Herb, Plato and Socrates What position are you playing this spring. All single males, Beware of high toppers .. Heeeeey Thornie, You're doing it Yourfriend~rshy Sq11ib()p-rite, Where were you Easter Sunday, Temple? Mom · Hey Wally, Collecting unemployment isn't a bad option. G.B., J.C. and M.H. A toast to friendship and f~. To my literate roonnnate, . Camp Kee-tou and Betwy~ Tacy forever. Welcome back Jen Goldfarb, Miss those hash-browns'! Nancy--je m'appelle Nancy chaque mataifl. 'sup footman? To the members of the \I know Karen Geller Society,\ there will he a meeting Sunday morning at 6:30 a.m. in the Cheder Ha Ochel. Oogiot will be served! It's not that you look it it's just that you act it. I mean youa wied eschoom. -Dot and Handi Thanks TDX. We had a great SUMM.ER POSITIONS AVAILABLE: Top NYS Co-Ed Sleepaway Camp has openings for General Counselors and all specialties. Excellerit salary. Minimum age: 19. ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING: Saturday, Aprill9, 1986 11 a. m . to 2 p . m . Soc. Sci. Bldg. Rm. 115 Union College Cam pus Na-Sho-Pa Bloom ingt?urg, N.Y. ICELANDAIR TOEURDP£ EVERYTHING , THAT 181'1 A BARGAIN IS FREE To Luxembourg: Roundtrip Fare New York $458* $499t Chicago $518*: S659t Balt./Wash. $488* $529t Detroit $508* $549t / Orlando $518* S559t Get in on our lowest fare to Europein years. And with it, get a lot more than just the trip over. Because, w:hen :yo~ fly Ic.elandair, you get everything you expect from a full-servtce arrl!ne, ~th no c~arg~ for meals or baggage. Every fare includes free wme With your m-fl1ght dinner and free cognac after. Icelandair Values Contit1ue After You Um.d: Free deluxe, round- trip motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, Belgium and Holland. Special $15 tr:ain fares to Switze~land or France. Super Saver Kemwel car rentals at JUSt$59 per week m Luxembourg. And, if you choose, a day or two stopover in Europe's most beautifully kept secret, Iceland. •super Bargain Fate, 6-30 day stay. tSuper Grouper F~re, 1-365 ~.· ay stay. ,Valid 5/16~6/8(86, $3•00 departure tax applies. For ~ mforma!ioil & reservations, call your travel agent. or '\\Mm'ICiiANDAJRJ81' CONCORDIENSIS, April 10, 1986 time partying with you Let's do it again, G-Phi-B ·,Wendy B. The lights were off, the time was very late, the bed was warm, the ice cream cone cold. What were you doing?? Page 17 • Hey Pollock!- :· Now you're not a buckaroo virgin. Was it good? PT If you ever see this,. thanks Margie, for- coming down to Ten .. You're well appreciated! -Women'screw M. · Scott- wv&- Biscuits in hand, we'•re re;:tdy to go! This one's for you, Betty. Ooh! Rock me Dougadeus! CLIP AND SAVE Oh pu1:ple eggplant in the patch How'd I'd love to make a batch ... of Parmesan ... Bo Bo Bo-niee- You are THE Woman's Day Woman! MH, Isn't it supposed to be sorta . h ? .sqms y. L Marcus: I miss your hands in English class. My back hurts ... l'm waiting. ''Macy\ . : Dear Dr. Vin, I haven't seen.the man of my · dreams since Winter Term and I know he's here. What should I do? Signed, Confused My good· friend-Mr. Paul Schaffer, I'Ve been HYP- NOTIZED!! -? Weedley Smokum, ''What I saw was real, what I felt was truth.\ · 'The three truths of the terrestrial weed: 1) grapefruit, 2) pineapple, and 3) Kermit the Frog. To B and R: Twenty years ·. from now, your wife will roll . over and say, \I married the nicest guy in the world.\ Desperately seeking good looking men who like eggplant. · Please contact box 2199 regarding our upcoming eggplant parmesan party. · Hey Debs! Happy Birthday! \I'd do anything to see that, • P.S. \Neva had it, neva will.\ boy!!\ The obscene phone-callers: (in a squeaky voice) How many · letters have you gotten from - -?! Dear Don L-Sorry I was too late for our date at Shipple · bridge and too scared to meet you at your room but I just don't think that your friends wm like me. Love the raspy voice. P.S. I love you forever. and I suppose I'll have to admire you from afar. CLIP AND SAVE- You inspire me to no end on eggplant won't you be my friend ... and dinner? To all who know us: Grusse aus der Schweiz! See ·you in September. Miss U! Cindy and Ken To the Sisters of Gamma Phi, Great Party Sat. nite. How 'bout a few more in tile near future!!!! The Brothers of Theta Delta Chi M ADEMOISELLE AGAZINE says. . . One of the top 17 salons 1.n the country.\ *lnqu1re about our student discounts. *SUNY bus stops just doors away. *Jean Paul Coiffures ·. is Your Island of . . Voungin', I'm still hungry. Restless GS, It's spring! No panty lines allowed. SOLD. Remember girls, a buttered muffin is a happy muffin. IM LOK, IM STILL SLOBER. Roxanne- Ho Chi Mon, ti walli sig mu? I love you anyway. Bill anl~ John- Laugha while you can monkey b'lys! -PT Hey Dude- Good day, have a great one. P.S. To the B's. Love, Dude KT- . My best to Ron and Nanc.- Cafe la rude 34th(?) off M -Chris Elegance in the Capital District - a hairsbreadth from New York and Paris. cftPPRfCiftTf TNL DlfffRLnCf Jp c..JcAN PAUL COIFFURE5 DEWITT CLINTON 142 STATE STREET ALBANY. N.Y. 12207 (~18) 463-6691 ma101 credit cqrds accepted .- IN SERVICE ... We listen -We care·~ We deliver. •IN QUAUlY ... We ARE European - Trained 1n Europe and reeognized throughout Ai\nerlca. -.IN STYLE ... We ARE trendsetters ~ Innovators of new style- Masters of subtle variation. · Hey Groupie, Can I bor,row your tempo to go to the liiiiiibrary? ! Love, The \thin\ one Greg (Spud)--So what Clarissa's really saying is that bacon comes from cows who eat stringbeans. I know those beards are fake; she'll catch on soon. Yeah, that's it ... · stresssss! ! ! Julie and Courtney, Thank you for finding me such a good home! My new Mommy is in~redible! She loves you both more than she can say! Thank you for being her friend! Love Ching Ching P.S. Hopefully I won't need to be flushed. Jen;; You may have left Lapa, but now you've got us instead. Welcome back. We missed you! Love, your Village D11o Avram- l'm glad you're back. I missed you. -Abigail Amy- Here's to a term of good times, good friends, good health and good luck. Welcome home. Your little sis To my favorite little groupie, Get psyched for the week you've been waiting for. We'll cure you yet. Your big sis Where is the School Spirit at Union? We need a Pep-Band next fall for our OUT- STANDING Football Team! We need: 2 Trombone Players! 2 Trumpet Players! 2 Clarinet Players! 2 Drummers! If you can help, call Student Activities.

, r Page 18 CONCORDlENSIS, April TO, 1986 SPORTS. OJnntorbiensis Laxmen Undefeated, 2-0 ByCPSIS Last year, the Union Lacrosse team posted its first winning record in seven years. This year, the Dutchmen and second year coach Mike Toop have their hands full in improving upon the groundwork laid last year. 'Ihe Laxmen who have fifteen returning letterwinners, came back undefeated from their spring trip, soundly defeating Gettysburg, Dickinson, and West Chester State. The success of the team this year may lie in the experience of the returning Dutchmen, as well as the arrival of key transfers and freshman. \I feel that we will be especially strong at the midfield positions. Defensively I think· that we have good talent as well as·experience,\ stated Toop. At midfield for Union are tri- captains Andrew Ross, Mike Weisberger, and Pete Agricola, all returning letterwinners. Backing them up will be two year letterwinner Jim Olney, transfer Lenny LaMonica, and Freshmen . Blake Henderson and Chris Ramsey. On defense are tri-captain Tim Meyer, who is backed up by an experienced line of Mark Leyton, Gary Cornick, transfer Greg Leahey, and sophomore Chuck Weber. Also returning for U11ion is Sophomore goalie Jolm Thorne, who had a fine rookie season last year and was instllurnental in turning the lacrosse pr()gram around, posting a .667 ·save percentage and a goals against average of 8~0. The attack for Union has had to fill a large · void after the graduation of Marc Ehndin who had 35 goals and 52 .points last year. Leading the attack is sophomore Phil Horn, who along with John R<imeo, transfer Tony Darin, , and freshman Dave DeBer,adinis, will be looked on to :lead the Dutchman's scoring a;ttack. Also on attack this year for the Dutchmen is football diehard Sean Duffy. Dutchmen Open Regular Season After the Laxmen's vktorious spring trip, they .faced Rochester in their first regalar season game. The attack indeed did fill in for Ehudi!l as John Romeo scored three goals with two assists. Phil Hom tallied three goals, and Darin 1 came up with two goals and an assist. Although the Dutchmen did not look as sharp as they had on the trip they soundly defeated Rochester 9-3. Also playi11g well for the Dutchmen were Ross, Henderson, and Weisberger at midfield. The defense of Cor- nick, Meyer, Leahey, and Leyton also played a solid game. In goal, s·ophomore sensation.J ohn Thorne had a big game, making fifteen saves. The next game the Dutchmen faced a tough Geneseo St. team on home turf. Before a large crowd, Union defeated Geneseo 10·6, coming from behind after a slow start. This win was especially important for the Dutchman, as they had lost to Geneseo the previous season. Again, the attack led the scoririg with Phil Horn netting five goals. Romeo scored a goal and two assists while Darin had a goal and three assists. At midfield, Weisberger had a fine outing scoring a goal and an assist, while Agricola and Henderson had one goal each. Also playing well at midfield were Lamonica, Ross, Olney, Shawn .Morton, Doug Lloyd, and John McCormick. On Defense, Leahey, Leyton, Meyer, and Cornick had especially strong games, while Cl1uck Weber did an excellent job off the ~nch. Again, goalie Thorne had a good game, making fifteen saves. The Laxmen are off to a strong.start this season and look good to top the success of last season. luggers Look for Winning Season Continued from page 20 this weekend as they face both Wesleyan University from Middletown, Connecticut, and SUNY Binghamton, who lost to Siena in theState Championship game during the fall season. Friske stressed about Satur- day's tournament, ''We're going to need a lot of fan support this weekend.\ FI<E.Stii\\Af.f' IS BAc.ld LPt.ST WEfJc. •• t-i!!'r\l P£fE.} !AHER.~ DID '(ou Go FOf;. '(.0\) F. \IA:C.ft1'10N? I {j;:3' ~ Following this weekend's game, Union travels to Oneonta the following weekend, April 19. The weekend of April Z4i is the upstate tournament. The following Saturday, May 3, Union will be taking a road trip to Boston to compete in a tournament there. The schedule of games to be played has not yet been finalized for that tournament. Union will com plete their regular season on May 10 in front of a Parents' Weekend crowd on Library Field against RPI. However, all games seem to be almost insignificant in comparison with the upstate tournament in two weeks. \It's upstate season and we're champions,\ Friske said. \Everyone's got the attitude this season.\ He added, \Plus their (Union's team's) captains are psycho-pathic.\ ~ 00 • tt.e. ;rusr wc,t.:r .:r. DON 'I /'lrr \(O() 011£~ -me. ;tE:AD wrn-J MV BotJ6! ~~ I tf.IJ !.fiRF-Y. · «c:lt.V biD y\oV 1)0 Ut~ -tJRM? Ml . ..5 nl~l S()ffCSED /0 ·•?' MEAN'. I ..---II. .:r /<NOW wlllfT' G~<:tTtrJ6 f:il! YOU'RE. MltkiWG fOAl or M£. fO (< I> o I iJ 6 Cti-F=.U-- L.MI I H t11-l? -11*.M • 1 f:; I.Jd7' FVNN'r'; f:~/-IYlllrJ -1tls:Y Ml~lil NtiT L£1\ />!~ fSI'I()<:. otJ /Hf!... FOt.'JT1: A(..L..- ~Pl. J ,:r:.. t>f.D sa w.u...f .X: DICwT ·MUlN r-' 6£T GOOD 6f'<t\D£6 1'11 rJoi f\ 11-!R.OAT; f~E.StlMft\'!! I \ I \ t\l-1 1 .:t ,a- rr! YtJv · Dol/7' tfii!Jk ;r; fXfUINf..D rr t.~fU;.. #W(J<J6f1 ~ yOU -trltrJ k I'M fl/ *'~? .!3/W ~~. \ . · ~nw 11\ CAIJI.D j-ll'rll£. Hft/'PUJfiP 1U ftNY bN6 • • •- Who's In The DugOut? ByPAULSCHOP Now that the warmer weather has arrived and spring is of- ficially here, my mind, like that of every other young man in America turns to fantasies of baseball, of course. My favorite fantasy this spring is to be granted an e}{clusive interview with George Steinbrenner. This is how I imagined it would have gone. Q: Mr. Steinbrenner, who will manage your teru:n. this season? A: Right. Q: Could you be more specific. What is his name? A: No, What managed most of last season. Who is managing this year. ' Q: Didn't What manage the Yankees on three previous occasions? A: Yes, he did. Q: If you won'ftell me who's managing your team this year, could you please give me the names of some of the other managers that you have had since you purchased the Yankees in 1973? A: Tomorrow. Q: Mr. Steinbrenner, I cannot continue this fantasy for another full day. Can you tell me his name today? A: I thought you didn't know any of their names. Today managed a season or two after Tomorrow. Q: Why? A: Oh, he came in between Tomorrow and Today. Q: Sir, why are you being so arrogant. Please give me a _ straight answer . to these questions. · :. · A: Who do you think you are, calling me arrogant, you little (expletives deleted). And yo11 better print that entire · quote. Q: Sir, I'm writing for the Union Coneordiensis, not the Lampoone.Wedo not.pander to the crudest impulses of humanity . by printing ob• scenities. Just whom do yo11 think you are, anyway? A: Why, I'm George .Stein- brenner, millionaire. I own a mansion and a yacht and a ball club. rrn. also going to own yout paper as soon as I can come up with a price for it so that I may have the pleasure of firing you. How high should I bid for it? Q: Sir, if you have to ask me the price for it, then . obviously even you cannot afford it. At this point, the interview degenerated irito violence as I was physically expelled from my own fantasy by a creation Cif my imagination. After some lengthy negetiations, though, I was able to complete the in- terview. · Q: Mr. Steinbrenner, your team is being managed by Wb(), What managed four different times, Tomorrow came before Today, Why, I don't kriow (don't tell me, he's a former third base coach) and after all of this nonsense, I don't care. A: Paul, who told you that he is next tn line for the job when Who fails? Q: Who? A: No, not Who, I Don't Care. Q: And neither do any of your team's former fans. UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD Modem British Studies The College of Liberal Arts, Boston University, offers to academically superior students the opportunity to study politics, history, and English literatilre for one semester at St Catherine's College, University of Oxford. This program combines the strengths of the British tutorial system with a traditional lecture/seminar approach to allow students an intense, rewarding academic experience. Applications are now being accepted for Summer 1986 (May 17-:August 22), Fall 1986 (September 5 -December 13), and Spring 1987 (January 9-April 17). Boston University -- __ ... --- --- --- -- -- --- --- --- ~- ........ -- -- -- -\\- --- ........ --- ........ -- -- Name Phone ( ). ___ _ Admess, ______________ ~------~----~----~ City State Zip _________ '-- Retum to Study Abroad Office, 143 Bay State Rd, Boston, MA 02215 (617) 353-3316 Summer spaces still available Representatives on campus Friday, Aprilll, 1:30-2:30 p.m., Schaffer Library, Phi Beta Kappa Room .. \Class Size\ ... Continued from page 12 understanding of both hard and soft technologies and to equip students to think about the social and ethical implications of their uses. I am confident that the ingenuity, energy and com- mitment .of the Union com- munity will allow us to solve the problems that students and others have identified and take advantage of opportunities to make Union live up to its potential. If one needs ·evidence of the ingenUity, energy and commitment of which I speak, one need only look at some of the better things that have happened during a year which many! regard as a bad year. They would include the many awards and fellowshipS won by students (a Rhodes, a Watson, A CORO, etc.); Rich Cavoli's experhnent, ill-fated as it was; llB~L.........,JL~[_jlU~~~~ZL~~J~~L ......... LLL--lllL~~l.... ........ JL....J.LI,. . t:fle inauguration of Latenigbt Bites and the 21 Club and Under 21 Club; a continuing record of fine performances by established groups such as the Choir and new groups such as the Chamber Orchestra; .. the debut of a new student edited journal, the Idealist; efforts .bY the Dean of Students to brUlg together faculty and students t() · launch new ventures designed to ·improve the quality of life outside the classroolll.; the very successful student-initiated public speaking competition, continued success of in- tercollegiate athletic programs and outstanding performances by im:lividual athletes.; the continued success of the Minerva series, and the many activities and programs sponsored by the Women's Commission. My list is long b11t incomplete. Nevertheless, I hope that the point is clear. Even in the midst of \trouble(! times\ we are a very vital place. - - IIIII - E Vi p f< Sl f< L a: si u 6 tt T s· OJ to p SE SC m in fil ot to g~ in

- ~se re, ;tie roll 1te. the the ·to of i)b- roll !iil- ta 1all mr up tar ()U. ? me sly- ew s I ~m t ()f IDe ' I in- lUI\ ilo, mt )re n't ISe !lis he ten re. IUr r - ler of by he as he ;ed by ng t() . ted ife 'ry ,ed ()n~ in- ms ~es :he :he IllY IDS fl'$ ~ut ' I ar .. leli ital CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/10, 1986 Pagel9 Athlete of the Week By DOUGLAS LLOYD To open Spring term 'Phil Horn has been selected as :this week's ••Athlete of the Week.\ Phil,. a sophomore attackman for the men's lacrosse team, scored 5 goals in a deCisivE win for the Dutchmen on Saturclay. The 2nd Straight win for the Laxmen, now 2..0, was a big ()ne as it came against Geneseo St., ,Phil, an indUstrial economics major, hails from Bright Waters, N.Y. where he attended Bay Shore High School where he was named all-leaglle twice and all-county once in lacrosse~ Congratulations to Phil Horn on being named Athlete of the Week and to the entire team on two big wins. a team Union has not beaten in six years. Phil scored 5 of Union's 10 goals en route t()a l()- 6 victory, after Union had letup the game's first thi\ee goals. Those 5 goals against Geneseo St. plus his three goals at tb.e opener in Rocnester give Phil a total of eight goals this season. Phil, a brother of Delta Phi', was se.cond in goals -and team scoring last year despite missing 4 out of 14 games d11eto ~· injuries. Last season he also o fired in29 goals and assisted in 7 ~ others for 36 points and now has o totaled 44 points in twelve V) games during his career wh:icb includes 37 goals. Phil Horn Union Conce11 Board Presents: STANLEY . <!tnnrnrbieu.ai.- SPORTS Charlie Slotnik ~Looking at Sports In 1984, the Union College hockey team reached the finals of the N.C.A.A. Division III hockey tournament, in 1985 the Skating Dutchmen won , the E.C.A.C. Division II West tournament, and advanced to the semi .. finals of the N.C.A.A. tournament. Little changed in 1986 as the Union skaters made their third trip to theN .C.A.A's. However, 1986 was different. For the first time since 1984 Union failed to make the Final Four, and did not achieve their season's goal, a National Championship. Nevertheless, the Skating Dutchmen came within a referee's whistle of upsetting top seeded R.I. T. on March 15th and advancin'g to the final four, and a crack at the covented national cham- pionship. Dutchmen Eliminated After losing to R.I. T. 8-6 in the E.C.A.C playoffs, the Skating Dutchmen were awarded a birth in the N.C.A.A's. Union was assigned the 8th seed; which meant another trip to victory; whi.ch mean.t Union would have to win Saturday's game in order to force a 10 minute mini-game. The Dut- chmen had their backs against the wall. Saturday night's game started out much like the previous game. Union was committing penalties and the referees were calling them no matter how minute the in- fractions actually were. Early in the first period R.I. T. had two 5 on 3 power play opportunities. But, Union hung tough, and killed both power plays. Dutchmen Goal Disallowed Midway through the 1st period the Dutchmen finally got their game together, or so it seemed momentarily. Dave Appleby took a shot from the point that went wide of the net, and bounced off the boards. Curt Cole came in for the powerplay, another R.I.T. goal. I was ready to drive back to Schenectady. But, the Dutchmen, now well aware that tonight everyone would be against them, the fans, the scoreboard operator, and especially the referees began an incredible comeback. Scott Cyr got the Dutchmen on the board, · scoring on. a breakaway, and then Todd Flanigan, making up for his disallowed goal scored two goals. and Union was back in the game. Now trailing. the mighty Tiger's only 5-3. In the third period the referee's let the two teams play hockey, but the Skating Dut- chmen still could not come within a goal. R.I. T. scored early in the third period to go up 6-3. Scott Cyr scored again to narrow the score to 6-4, but the teams continued to trade goals until the last minute with R.I. T. holding what appeared to be a comfortable 8-6 lead. rebound, but missed the puck With under a minute and collided with R.I.T. goalie, remaining in the game, Union Rob Rohlfs. Todd Flanigan had a 5 ()n 3 power play ad- poked the'puck into the net, and vantage, and pulled McDougall the Dutchmen were ahead 1-0, from the goal in order to put a or so it seemed. But, the goal sixth skater on the ice. Coach was disallowed and Cole was Morrison's strategy worked as given a charging penalty. Tom Hodgins scored with 12 seconds remaining on the clock ,JORDAN Wed., Apri I 23 · · Rochester to play- R.I. T. R.l.T. scored while Cole was to cut tbe R.I.T. lead to S-7. in the penalty box. Thus the Union would come no. closer, . refer,ee'scall-made . ..a difference - ·and· lost fl-'1,·-bnt not ·after·~· of two goals. Gary Temush was tremendolls comeback that tells given a penalty l1 seconds later what the Union players are and R.I. T. was given their third really about. 8 p.m. 5 on 3 of the 1st period. This time ON SALE NOW ONLY$4 However, thi~ '\\\Q..Ul<!. ~ _a tw.o out of three series. If each team won one game, there would be a 10 minute rilin-game at the conclusion of the second game in order to determine who would advance to the Final Four. Union came to Rochester prepared, the teams had already met twice during the season with R.I. T. wirining both games, Thus, both teams kn~w each others strengths and they capitalized. The Dutchmen Trailing 5-0 early in the 2nd were now trailing 2-o, and it period the Union players collld wot,l].d get worse as R.I. T. have quit, but they had far too scored again on another power much pride to do that. Instead play opportunity to take a 3-0 they rallied, and came together lead afte'r the 1st period. as a unit to overcome the OUTCHI\\E N SPORTSWEEK Aprii10-April16 THURSDAY 4/10 Men's Lax at Albany St. Baseball at Hartwick Softball at Albany St. Tennis at Hamilton FRIDAY 4/11 ·Baseball at Hobart women's Lacross at Rochester SATURDAY 4/12 Men's Lacross atOnel!>nta Women's Lacross at Wel.ls A&B Baseball vs. Oneonta (2) Softball at Castleton- (2) Men's Track· Union REI ays Women's Track- at Albally Invitational SUN DAY 4/13 Baseball at St. Lawrence JIA()NDA Y 4/14 Men's Track at BC Re'l.ays TU'ESDAY 4/15 Men's Track at BC Relays Tennis vs. Albany St. WEDNESDAY 4/16 Men's Lacrosse vs. MidcJiebury Men's Track at BC Relavs GARNET SCOREBOARD M'EN.'S LACROSSE 3:00p.m. , 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 2:00p.m. weaknesses. But, the Union team that showed up in the first game of the series was not the same Union team that 'Challenged the R.I,T. Tigers in the E.C.A.C. 's with aggressive forchecking and aggressive play, nor was this the same team that won their last four ' regulal\ season games all away from Achilles Rink and beat Oswego St. 4-2 in the quar- terfinals of the E.C.A.C. playoffs. This Union team was flat. 1 :00 p.m. 12:00 p.m. , 10:00 a.m. Skaters lose 1st Game 1:00 p.m. 3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. Union could only muster twenty shots on R.I. T. goalie, Rob Rohlfs, who does not look or play like · Tom Barasso. Meanwhile, R.I. T. led by right wing Ritchie Herbert peppered Wayne McDougall with thirty seven shots on a night when McDougall did not, play like Tom Barasso either. Moreover, the Dutchmen were plagued with penalities all night. Union skaters spent a total of twenty eight minutes in the penalty box. The resUlt was a 4-1 R.I.T. Coach Charlie Morrison was elements-a superior R.I. T. livid and frustrated. His Dut- team, unfair officiating, and chmen were a much better little fan support. Coach hockey team than the referees Morrison said after the game, were allowing them to be, and \They represented Union elimination was staring him in College well.\ the face. · A skirmish at the end of the 1st period had both teams skating 3 on 3 at the start of the second period. R.I.T. took advantage of the extra ice, and scored again R.I.T. 4-Union 0. MixUp In Penalty Box Then the mix up occurred, although at this point Union seemed mixed up enough. There was a ten minute delay as the referees and the scorer's apparently straightened away the penalty situation. Union's Bill Snow was supposed to leave the penalty box: 6 seconds before an R.I. T. player, but the official made a mistake, and inad- - vertently had the R.I. T. player leaving six seconds before Snow. Subsequently, when Snow left the box at the ~ight tirne he was given a penaltY for leaving the box early. Another R.I.T~ Team Gf Character One could easily blame the officials for the loss, but Morrison would offer no such excuses, \I have no comment on the officiating. Our boys played their hearts out and lost.\ Co-captain Curt Cole added, \We never qu.it, our season had it's ups and downs, and we ended on a down note, but we have notb.ing to be ashamed ()£. Any team that can overcome what the Union College hockey team was against last March 15th certainly has nothing·to. be ashamed of. Coach Charlie Morrison summed up the make up of this year's team quite appropriately in the locker room following his team's disappointing loss. \This is a team I am proud to be associated with.\ UNION 9 UNION 10 U. of Rochester 3 Geneseo St. 6 Union College Speakers Foru·m presents BA:SEBALL WOMEN'S LACROSSE LufiQN 18 '•. ..... , . ME~'S TENNIS Skidmore7 : . . ' . .MEN' STRACK UNION 81 R.P.I. 8 ' Skidmore7 ·.UNION 2 Sarah Weddington· Tonight • 8:oop.m.- 55016 Tickets:. Available in the Old Chapel · .. Office·· Very limited supply . . :

Page20 CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/10, 1986 Ken Horan Leads Dutchmen to 7-1 Rout Tracksters Battle to Tie with BPI See Story · Bel.ow See Story Below. . - . Thursday, April 10, 1986 Dutchmen Open· with Two Wins By RICH BARTOSCH Union baseball started their season with a rival win against RPI 13-3. It was the first win for their·new coach Gary Reynolds and fur pitcher Tim Valachovic. Starting pitcher, junior Rich Bartosch who experienced quite a sheUing by the Engineers as they dug into him for 7 runs on 6 hits in one and two·.thirds in- nings. Tim Valachovic was called upon to finish the second inning and the game. He rose to the occasion by giving up just 2 hits and 1 unearned run providing the necessary in- centive for the Dutchmen to rally and beat the Engineers. Dutchmen Rally Entering the 3rd, Union trailed 7-2 but would leave this same inning forty minutes later with a 7-7 tie. Starting the scoring drive was center fielQ.er Alex Rita whose RBI single and speed aided the rally. Reinhard Walker walked with bases loaded to force in another run and finally sophomore Ke~ Horan hit a full count two out single that scored three runs as Walker easily glided around the bases from first. Union took the lead for good on a sharply hit single by Dave Anderson. K~n Horan, Alex Rita, Tom Barrett and Dave Anderson all had two hits adding to the 13 hit assault. Union 1-0 with the hopes of beating last year's school record 16-9, set by coach John Audino, will play host to Albany on AprilS, Hobart on Aprilll, and a double header agairuit Oneonta on April 12. On Tuesday Union defeated Albany St. soundly 7-1. Ken Horan pitched all nine innings giving up only 8 hits. Ron Jakubczyk paced the Dutclunen with two home runs and 4 RBI's. Andy Markopolous also homered. The Dutchmen are currently 2-0 in regular season play, and have five games in the next 3 days. They play Hartwick away today, and are at Central Park for a doubleheader against Oneonta St. Saturday, and travel to Canton, N.Y. Sunday for a doubleheader versus St. Lawrence. Coach Reynolds will ask for help this year from Captains Tom Barrett, Reinhard Walker, Teddy Cannon, his assistants, and Pete Brown as they strive for their new goal. So catch a game and support the Dut- chmen at Central Park. Tr_acksters Open Season· By ANDY HODGKIN This past Saturday the Union Dutchmen opened their outdoor track season with a meet against the Engineers from RPI. Despite ten first place finishes, the Dutchmen ran to an 8HU tie. Season starts with tie The Dutchmen came back to tie the score at the end by edging RPI at the line in the 4x400 relay. Going into the final leg, RPI had a commanding 3().. 40 meter lead but Rob Mohlar Support Union Sports closed the gap to Wlll dramatically at the line in front of a stumbling Engineer in a time of 3:30.9. Remlllard winS again Senior Scott Remillard was a triple winner in the hammer throw, discus, and shot put. His winning throws were 56.14m, 45.88m, and 14.2lm respec .. tively. Chris O'Donnell won the 1500m in 4:11.7 followed by Jim LeBrou. Rich Romer took first place honors in the 110 high hurdles followed by Wayne Lacy who also won the pole vault with a vault of 13'6\. Todd Allen won the 100 meter dash while Jeff Barker won the 800 meter event in 1:59.8. Last tenn the Union men's Indoor Track team rounded out its season with a sixth place finish at the New York State Meet and a National champion at the NCAA Indoor Track Nationals in St. Paul, Min- nesota. , Scott Remillard, a defending All-American in the 35 lb. weight, bad finished second last year at the Nationals but this year he easily took first place honors winning the cham- pionship. His winning distance came on his second throw in which he tossed the weight 17.12 meters (56'2\). Second place was won in 16.58 meters. Dutchmen finish sixth At the State Meet, the Dut- chmen gathered 33 points to tie for sixth place with Albany State. Buffalo State edged both teams for fifth with 34 points. Union got two first place positions for state cham- pionships in the 3200 meter relay and the 35 lb. weight. In the relay the Dutchmen edged Cortland by three seconds with a time of 7:52.34. In the 35 lb. weight Scott Remillard won with a toss of 17.06 meters, defeating second place by more than a meter. Other Union scorers were Remillard's second in the shot put and Wayne Lacy's third place tie in the pole vault at 4.12 meters. U1110ft II, RPI 11 400 my - llnlon -4S, I (Runners unavailable); 3000 - Hackett (RPI) 10:20.6; 1500 - O'Donnell fU) ot:l1.7; Hammer - Remillard (Ul 187.0; Lo· ng&ump - Ashe (RPU 20.1~: no hltlh llur!Jts - John Romer (U) 15.7; 4(10 - frick (RPI) :50.3; 100 - Alltn CUI 10.9; 100 ... Barker (U) 1:59.8; TriPtfUmp- Asht tRPO 41.5; 400 IIUnlls- Allwlck• er (RPU :58J;' 200 - Sloane (RPI) :22.3; Dtscua - Remillard (U) 140.0; 5000.- Killktb CRPI) 16:13.0; 4 X 400 MY._ Union, 3:30.9, (Runners not evalllblt); Po~tvautt- idcv CU) JU; HI\*\\' ... Alht (RPI) 6.2; JiVIIn ~ Miller CRPit 55.72 m; Shilr;IUt ·- Rtmlwd CUI M.21. .· W. Lax Beat·s Skidmore By WENDY ALLEN Women's Varsity Lacrosse started out their season with a . win against Skidmore. The Dutchwomen came out strong and kept the lead throughout the game with their exceptional strength and speed. The man-to- man defense held Skidmore's .shots on goal to 12 while Union took 36 shots on goal. The goalies, Heidi Kahn and Elizabeth Wallach,. held Skidmore's goals to 7, while Lorna Rushforth led the Dut- chwomen in scoring with 5 goals. Also adding to Union's scoreboard were Kate Hamilton, Anne Rosenau, Jane Barkin, Bonnie Faulkner, while Courtney Lynch, Debbie Hodin and Becca Clemente both scored and completed fantastic midfield connections with defenders Cheryl Washburn and · Elaine Pick. The J.V. team was equally successful defeating the Skidmore team. Although they had a slower start, they quickly picked up the pace and dominated the majority of the game. The defense held Skid- more's shots to 11, while the goalies held Skidmore's goals to 6. Union had a total of 18 shots on goal, with Kristy Rodinhiser leading the scoring with 4 goals. Barb Brady, Sarah Shaw, Mary O'Sullivan, Andree Lebel, and Fiona Shukri also added to Union's winning score. Again, the midfield connection was very strong and crucial to Union's win. The Union LAX-women proved themselves to be a vecy st~ong team and are looking forward to a successful season. Coach Marty Morrison believes that this team has the potential to be Union's best Women's Lacrosse team. COME ROOT US ON!! Ruggers Look to Dominate By CHRIS SHERIDAN \We have the experience, talent, and desire to dominate even more than last year and keep the Upstate Rugby Championship here at Union,\ felt Junior Rugby player Steve Konlian concerning the up- coming Spring season. The biggest part of the Spring season for the Union ruggers is the Upstate Rugby tournament, held on the weekend of April26. This is a tournament in which men and women's A and B squads from all over the state come and play for the Upstate Rugby Championship crown. Union's men's team defeated SUNY Buffalo (a school of about 15-20 thousand students) for the championship last spring. About 100 different teams total will compete-- Union's men's A-squad will be vying for the crown against about 40 other teams in their divisio~ from across the state. \I think our B-team could take it all too,\ Konlian also felt. \The B's have quite a few sophomores on it that have played together for more than one season. It all depends on strategy,\ he added. Senior co-captain John Friske agreed with Konlian. ''The experience we lacked last season has definitely been made up for this season.· That's definitely going to be a help.\ A new addition to the team that will certainly be an asset to them for the upcoming season is their newly acquired serum- machine. This device consists of a set of pads pushed. against by the serum attached to a plat- form that is stood on by about 10 men to add weight. \It's going to help us a lot in conditioning without hurting people · doifig real serum-downs,\ .Friske said. 1n a pre-season scrimmage last Saturday, Union played together with a few players from the Schenectady Reds Men's league team and went againSt Springfield, New York's Men's league team. Union trounced over Springfield 32-0. Four of the eight tries came from Senior eighth-man Ed Hart, who is returning after missing the fall season. Friske added,·\ After seeing hiin score four tries in the first game, I think he'll make a big im- pression on the team., Sophomore Bob McGowan felt that the team. is coming along well. \I think we look good,\ he said. \We have a lot of the spirit we didn't have in the fall season.,, Union's firSt regJ.ll.ar season game comes in douple-fashiol'! Continued on page 18

Page 20 Gi \0 0 ::> .... (/') > ..Q .e 0 .c CL CONCORDIENSIS,Apri!JO, 1986 Ken Horan Leads Dutchmen to 7-1 Rout Trackster; See Story Bel~w. Thursday, Apri I 10, 1986 Dutchmen Open· with Two Wins v By RICH BARTOSCH Union baseball started their season with a rival win against RPI 13-8. It was the first win for their new coach Gary Reynolds and for pitcher Tim Valachovic. Starting pitcher, junior Rich Bartosch who experienced quite a shelling by the Engineers as they dug into him for 7 runs on 6 hits in one and two-thirds in- nings. Tim Valachovic was called upon to finish the second inning and the game. He rose to the occasion by giving up just 2 hits and 1 unearned run providing the necessary in- centive for the Dutchmen to rally and beat the Engineers. Dutchmen Rally Entering the 3rd, Union trailed 7-2 but would leave this same inning forty minutes later with a 7-7 tie. Starting the scoring drive was center fielder Alex Rita whose RBI single and speed aided the rally. Reinhard Walker walked with bases loaded to force in another run, and finally sophomore Ken Horan hit a full count two out single that scored three runs as Walker easily glided around the bases from first. Union took the lead for good on a sharply hit single by Dave Anderson. Ken Horan, Alex Rita, Tom Barrett and Dave Anderson all had two hits adding to the 13 hit assault. Union 1-o with the hopes of beating last year's school record 16-9, set by coach John Audino, will play host to Albany on April 8, Hobart on April 11, and a double header against Oneonta on April 12. On Tuesday Union defeated Albany St. soundly 7-1. Ken Horan pitched all nine innings giving up only 8 hits. Ron Jakubczyk paced the Dutclnnen with two home runs and 4 RBI's. Andy Markopolous also homered. The Dutclnnen are currently 2-o in regular season play, and have five games in the next 3 days. They play Hartwick away today, and are at Central Park for a doubleheader against Oneonta St. Saturday, and travel to Canton, N.Y. Sunday for a doubleheader versus St. Lawrence. Coach Reynolds will ask for help this year from Captains Tom Barrett, Reinhard Walker, Teddy Cannon, his assistants, and Pete Brown as they strive for their new goal. So catch a game and support the Dut- chmen at Central Park. \'\ sta1 wi:n Out and gan stre ma1 sho1 tool goa Eli~ Ski< Lori chw goal SCOJ Hall Bar Cou and SCOI mid defe Tracksters Open Season ~ By ANDY HODGKIN This past Saturday the Union Dutchmen opened their outdoor track season with a meet against the Engineers from RPI. Despite ten first place finishes, the Dutchmen ran to an 81-81 tie. Season starts with tie The Dutchmen came back to tie the score at the end by edging RPI at the line in the 4x400 relay. Going into the final leg, RPI had a commanding 30- 40 meter lead but Rob Mohlar Support Union Sports closed the gap to win dramatically at the line in front of a stumbling Engineer in a time of 3:30.9. RemUiard wins again Senior Scott Remillard was a triple winner in the hammer throw, discus, and shot put. His winning throws were 56.14m, 45.88m, and 14.21m respec- tively. Chris O'Donnell won the 1500m in 4:11.7 followed by Jim LeBrou. Rich Romer took first place honors in the 110 high. hurdles followed by Wayne Lacy who also won the pole vault with a vault of 13'6\. Todd Allen won the 100 meter dash while Jeff Barker won the 800 meter event in 1:59.8. Last tenn the Union men's Indoor Track team rounded out its season with a sixth place finish at the New York State Meet and a National champion at the NCAA Indoor Track Nationals in St. Paul, Min- nesota. Scott Remillard, a defending ·All-American in the 35 lb. weight, had finished second last year at the Nationals but this year he easily took first place honors winning the cham- pionship. His winning distance came on his second throw in which he tossed the weight 17.12 meters (56'2\). Second place was won in 16.58 meters. Dutchmen finish sixth At the State Meet, the Dut- chmen gathered 33 points to tie for sixth place with Albany State. Buffalo State edged both teams for fifth with 34 points. Union got two first place positions for state cham- pionships in the 3200 meter relay and the 35 lb. weight. In the relay the Dutchmen edged Cortland by three seconds with a time of 7: 52.34. In the 35 lb. weight Scott Remillard won with a toss of 17:06 meters, defeating second place by more than a meter. Other Union scorers were Remillard's second in the shot put and Wayne Lacy's third place tie in the pole vault at 4.12 meters. Union 11, RPI 81 400 retay - llnlon .45. I (Runners unavailable); 3000 - Hackett (RPI) l0:20.6; 1500 - O'Donnell I U) 4:11.7; Hammer -- Remillard (UI 187.0; LD· nolump - Ashe CRPI) 20.llil; 110 hlth hurcles - John Romer (U) 15.7; 400 - Frlcll. (RPI) :50.3; 100 - Anen (U) 11.9; 100 - Barker (U) 1:59.1; TrfPiefump - Ashe (RPO 41.5; 400 IIUI'des - Allwlck• er (RPU :5U; 2CIO - Sloane (RPt) :22.3; Dlscua - Remillard (U) 140.0; 5000. - Killkelv (RPI) 16: 13.0; 4 X 400 r'tlly - UniOn, 3:30.9, (Runntrs not IVIIIIblt); Pelt vaun- LICV (UJ 13.6; HllllllUinf ... Ashe (RPIJ -6.2; JaVIIIn - Miler fRPit 55.12 m; Shtlllut - Remlllrd (U) lUI. \~ tale eve1 keeJ Cha felt Kon com Tl sea~ thel held This men squ~ com Rug Unic SUN a bot for spri tear: Unic vyin a bot dim \I take felt. so ph play1 one strat Se1 agre expE seas'

Story the they and of the Skid- the to shots goals. and to was to veey team to is by plat- nion 32-0. Ed core I im- .. ' *SPECIAL EDITION* 1877 Special April 14, 1986 ' tate ·of the Union' cheduled By SARAH CALDERINI - and JAY GROSSM~N Morris, D'Andrea and Hauser tO he Panelists overview of the college, while Vice-Presidents D'Andrea and Hauser will speak on academic and financial affairs, respec- tively. As we open the floor up to a question and answer period, we hope tnatthe audience will take Concordiensis has decided to sponsor \State of the Union,\ an evening of discussion with President Morris and Vice Presidents D'Andrea and Hauser in an effort to answer and resolve major questions of importance that are facing the Union community. In response to the failure of the Dean's Discussion of the winter term, · the editdtial board believed thaf- an evening with the \top\ administrators might be a more effective way of accomplishing this goal. · · on this responsibility in an in- 'formative ·and productive manner. Students, faculty members and all other mem- bers of the Union community are encouraged to\panicipateJn. _ .. the event. The editorial board would also like to encourage insightful suggestions and resolutions to some problems that will be discussed. t.. Q) .0 e ~ Q) > ltl a >. .0 0 ..... 0 a The main format of the evening will consist of a five to seven minute speech by each pf the panelists followed by a question and answer session. The first part will call for each administrator to provide a summary of one area of their jurisprudence. President Morris -will give a general • Above all, Concordiensjs is hoping that the evening will be an enjoyable as well as productive one for the entire College community. \State of the Union\ will be a valuable opportunity for open line_s of communication between all members of the Union com· munity. Vice-PreSident for Academic Affairs. Thomas 0' Andrea Vice-Presidentfor F ina nee and Administration John Hauser. President Johns. Morris r News Brief Review The following articles have been reprinted from past issues of Concordiensis. Board Increases Tuition The Board of Trustees, in its proposed revenue budget; agreed to raise tuition fees by 8.11 per cent for the 1986-1987 academic year. Residence fees and food contra~t fees were also increased by 7.38 per cent and 6.91 per cent respectively. These increases result in students paying an additional $1,000to attend Union over what they paid last. year. The total cost for the 1986-1987 academic year is now estimated at $13,725 (see chart below for full details). Approximately one-fifth (19 to 20 per cent) of the revenues from the increase in yearly costs, it should be noted, will come back to the students in the form of financial aid. This in- crease in the financial aid budget should amount to $333,330 for the 1986-1987 academic year. An additional $160,000 was added to the financial aid budget \in order to stay competitive and to attract good students.\ Over four lllillion dollars ($4,252~717) will be available in total student financial aid next year. Andrew George, a senior at Union and a student trustee, voted against the measure to increase next year's fees. He questioned why the increases in students' fees still continue when they were supposed to level off years ago. Pre-Registration One of the issues about which there has been much debate is the practice of pre-registration. The trimester system used by Union College does not allow for the time needed for the regular registration systexn. · Another topic of discussion concerned the problem of closed courses. Courses are 'closed' during pre-registration largely due to the combination of ex- cessive class size and lack of classroom space. Between 9:30 a.m. and 12:20 p.m. there are virtually no open classrooms. 'l'his problem is magnified when students attempt to obtain special permission from professors in order to enter a closed course. In order to remedy this problem, it has been suggested that a 'priority list 1 be compiled consisting of those students who were closed out of a specific course. During the next pre-registration period, the priority listed students would be given preferential treatment and would thus be automatically placed in that course. Another possible solution to the closed course problem is the proposed creation of adjunct courses to act as a 'safety valve'. These courses, which would not be listed on the schedule sheet, would only be opened in the case of overflow as a means of avoiding the closure of certain required courses. Card courses have also been a source of much discontent among Union students. The problem lies in the fact that these card courses are generally run on a \first come first serve\ basis. The problem that arises from this method is that many students for whom a particular course is required may not be able to take it due to the fact that they did not sign up for it in time. This practice results in card courses solely being used for numerical enrollment purposes without taking into con- sideration a student's reasons for taking the course. Union Costs Proposed For 1986-1987 Increase 1985-86 Tuition Housing (Most Common> Food Contract Rate Increase Percent Total $9,435 765 8.1196 $10,200 1.,625 1,665 120 115 7.38 6.91 1,745 1,780 $12,725 $1,000 7.86% $13,725

Apri/10, 1986 Tracksters Battle to Tie with RPi See Story Below 1986 Horan giving Jakubczyk with two Andy The 2-0 in and have 3 days. ick away Park against and Sunday versus St. ask for Captains Walker, assistants, strive catch a the Out- W. lax Beats Skidmore By WENDY ALLEN successful defeating the Women's Varsity Lacrosse Skidmore team. Although they started out their season with a had a slower start, they quickly win against Skidmore. The picked up the pace and ~utchwomen came out strong dominated the majority of the and kept the lead throughout the game. The defense held Skid- game with their exceptional more's shots to 11, while the strength and spe.ed. The man-to- goalies held Skidmore's goals to man defense held Skidmore's 6. Union had a total of 18 shots _shots on goal to 12 while Union on goal, with Kristy Rodinhiser took 36 shots on goal. The leading the scoring with 4 goals. goalies, Heidi Kahn and Barb Brady, Sarah Shaw, Mary Elizabeth Wallach, held O'Sullivan, Andree Lebel, and Skidmore's goals to 7, while .Fiona Shukri also added to Lorna Rushforth led the Dut- Union's winning score. Again, chwomen in scoring with 5 the midfield connection was goals. Also adding to Union's very strong and crucial to scoreboard were Kate Union's win. Hamilton, Anne Rosenau, Jane The Union LAX-women Barkin, Bonnie Faulkner, while proved themselves to be a veey Courtney Lynch, Debbie Hodin strong team and are looking and Becca Clemente both forward to a successful season. scored and completed fantastic Coach Marty Morrison believes midfield connections with that this team has the potential defenders Cheryl Washburn and · to be Union's best Women's Elaine Pick. Lacrosse team. COME ROOT , The J.V. team was equally US ON!! · Ruggers Look to Dominate Sixth the Dut- to tie Albany both 34 points. place cham- meter weight. In edged with the 35 lb. won meters, more Union put and tie in 81 (Runners (RPI) (U) 4:11.7; I 187 .0; LO· llA; 110 hlth 15.7; 400 - (U) 10.9; - - Allwlck• (RPt) :22.3; 5000. - 400 NIIY- IVIIIIblf); HISIIIIUmJ .... Miller fRPit (U) lUI. By CHRIS SHERIDAN \We have the experience, talent, and desire to dominate even more than last year and keep the Upstate Rugby Championship here at Union,\ felt Junior Rugby player Steve Konlian concerning the Ufr coming Spring season. The biggest part of the Spring season for the Union ruggers is the Upstate Rugby tournament, held on the weekend of April26. This is a tournament in which men and women's A and B squads from all over the state come and play for the Upstate Rugby Championship crown. Union's men's team defeated SUNY Buffalo (a school of about 15-20 thousand students) for the championship last spring. About 100 different teams total will compete-- Union's men's A-squad will be vying for the crown against about 40 other teams in their division fr{lm across the state. \I thl.nk our B-team could take it all too,\ Konlian also felt. \The B's have quite a few sophomores on it that have played together for more than one season. It all depends on strategy,\ he added. Senior co-captain John Friske agreed with Konlian. \The · experience we lacked last \' . ~~~son has definitely been made up for -this season.• That's definitely going to be a help.\ A new addition to the team that will certainly be an asset to them forthe upcoming season is their newly acquired serum- machine. This device consists of a set of pads pushed against by the scrwn attached. to a plat- form thatis stood on by about 10 men to add weight. \It's going to help us a lot in conditioning without hurting peoRie · doing real serum-downs~ ' Friske said. In a pre-season scrimmage last Saturday, Union played together with a few players from the Schenectady . Reds Men's league team and went against Springfield, New York's Men's league team. Union troUilced over Springfield 32-0. Four of the eight tries came from Senior eighth-man Ed Hart, who is returning . after missing the fall season. :Friske added, \Mter seeing him score four tries in the first game, I think he'll make a . big im- pression on the team.'' Sophomore Bob McGowan felt that the team is coming along well. \I think we look good,\ he said. \We have a lot of the spirit we didn't have in the fall season.\ Union's firSt regular season garne comes in douple-fashiol! Continued on page 18 *SPECIALED/1 187: Special ' tate of the Union' ~ '- Ql .0 ::> '- (.!) Ql > ttl 0 >- .0 .E 0 ..c: ll. Morris, D'Andrea and tO be Panelists By SARAH CALDERINI and JAY GROSSMAN Concordiensis has decided to &ponsor \State of the Union,\ an evening of discussion with President Morris and Vice Presid.ents D'Andrea and Hauser in an effort to answer and resolve major questions of importance that are facing the Union community. In response to the failure of the Dean's Discussion of the winter term, the editorial board believed that ·· an evening with the \top\ administrators might be a more effective way of accomplishing this goal. The main format of the evening will consist of a five to seven minute speech by each 9f the panelists followed by a question and answer session. The first part will call for each administrator to provide a summary of one area of their jurisprudence. President Morris 'Will give a general 'OVerview of the college, while Vice-Presidents D'Andrea and Hauser will speak on academic and financial affairs, respec- tively. As we open the floor up to a question and answer period, we hope that the audience will take on this responsibility in an in- formative · and productive manner. Students, faculty members and all other mem- bers of the Union community are encouraged to participateJn ... the event. The editorial board would also like to encourage insightful suggestions and resolutions to some problems that will be discussed. • Above all, Concordiensis is hoping that the evening will be an enjoyable as well as productive one for the entire College community. \State of the Union\ will be a valuable opportunity for open line.s of communication between all members of the Union com- munity. Vice· President for Academic Affairs Thomas 0' Andrea ,. Vice· President for Finance and Administration John Hauser. Presid• NewsB1 The following articles have bE Board Increases Tuition The Board of Trustees, in its proposed revenue budget, agreed to raise tuition fees by 8.11 per cent for the 1986-1987 academic year. Residence fees and food contract fees were also increased by 7.38 per cent and 6.91 per cent respectively. These increases result in students paying an additional $1,000 to attend Union over what they paid last year. The total cost for the 1986-1987 academic year is now estimated at $13,725 (see chart below for full details). Approximately one-fifth (19 to 20 per cent) of the revenues frorn the increase in yearly costs, it should be noted, will come back to the students in the fonn of financial aid. This in- crease in the · financial aid budget should amount to $333,330 for the 1986-1987 academic year. An additional $150,000 was added to the financial aid budget \in order to stay competitive and to attract good students.\ Over four million dollars ($4,252,717) will he available in total student financial aid next year. Andrew George, a senior at Union and a student trustee, voted against the measure to increase next year's fees. He questioned why the increases in students' fees still continue when they were supposed to level off years ago. Pre- One of tl there has the practic The trime: Union Colic · the time nc registratio Another concerned courses. c during prt due to thE cessive ci. classroom a.m. and virtually 1 This pr whenstudt special professors .closed co rerriedy t1 been.sugg. list' be co those studc out of asp thenextpr the prior would be Unic Tuition Housin, (MO$ FoodCt

Pagel CONCORDJENSIS Specia/Jsslle, Apri/14, 1986 FOI.UIIIn/ at llnion Coli~ 1877 ------~--~ -------- Groundwork Today, the Concordiensis staff brings to you the first .Monday issue in several years. It is our in- tention in publishing this issue; that it serve as a summary of some of the more important problems that we believe the college has been fac~d with. The editorial board, in addition to several other concerned students, believed that this evening's panel discussion could lay the groundwork for open ,relations between all factions of the Union com- munity. As Union approaches its 200th birthday, the college is faced with many challenging decisions. We are concerned whether Union is adhering to its ideological bases. In all of this, the .student must· maintain an im- portant role. This evening, each and every student will have the ability to become a part of the problem solving network. It would be foolish for students to pass up the chance to make suggestions that might affect the rest of their lives. E-very Union student has a vested interest in Union! We urge all students, as well as all other members of the campus corrununity to attend this evening's discussion. Our Future Does Union College offer the students what they want? This question has been the subject of discussion for the past few months and the present times may someday be reviewed as a watershed when observers judge the college and review its mistakes. Union and its administrators have been the object of a lot of criticism of late. Of course, the accusation of a lack of social alternatives on campus, due to the drinking age change, is at the top of everyone's list. However,there· are ·many others. We can't understand why the cost of tuition has skyrocketed, while we don't seem to be getting a heck of a lot more for our money. While we used to go to classes With 12, 13, and 14 other students, we now find that there are 20, 30, and 40 students in them. In addition, students are closed out of courses and the entire registration procedure has become disappointing. The college has even been accused of a lack of concern for its students. Our security and safety has become jeopardized in more than onft way. \A mad attacker\ runs around the campus discouraging women from walking alone at night. The paths and roadways are not cleared efficiently from snow and ice making everyday walking across campus a hazardous activity. Adding to all of this, our clock doesn't even keep the right time. Yes, the college and its administrators can deny that all or any of these are problems on the Union campus by providing us with all the \logical\ answers to these questions. Yes, there are ex- ceptions to many of these problems, but it is these problem as a whole \trend.'' And the students that are here today will go on, only because we don't have any alternatives. WE have no place else to go. But, the students of tomorrow will have choices. They will have the option to pay $5,000 or $6,000 to go to their state school rather than $14,000 or $15,000 to go to Union, and you'll have to admit that we don't get $10,000 more education than SUNY Albany students. Even more, they'll know (from us). that what Union claims it Dffers simply isn't true. Union claims to be a small school. But WE don't get small classes, and we don't get professors that know our names, and we don't get the security-safety of a small upstate college. We are not criticizing merely for the sake of criticism. Students here do have some legitimate complaints and have some good suggestions. So, the administrators that are sitting behind their desks and reading this and saying to them- selves: ~'It's only Concordiensis. They don't know what they're talking about\ better think twice ·about acting fast. Otherwise you;ll be judged and :·your gr~\Te mistakes will be reviewed and we all won't behere~-o cry about them. Reprinted in part from an editorial that appeared in the February 6, 1986 iS$11e of Concordiensis. ''--- Cnllege Construction: Renovations Progress This article is reprinted from the March 6, 1986 i~ue .of Concordiensis. By LAURENCE MANNINO Extensive campus con- struction coupled with new campus policy due to recently enacted legislation concerning . the drinking age has had a major impact on the social life of Union College students. These factors have, in effect, deceiltrali::ed student activities here on campllS. In the hopes of remedying t1is problem, Carnegie Hall is cutrently being renovated and expanded thus creating a college center that . will fill the void created by these various needs. Overall Plan Outlined The overall plan for this is as follows: The CQllege Center will combine and consolidate in a structure of approximately · 60,000 sq. feet ·a variety of support services, social spaces, reservable spaces, and ad- ministrative offices presently scattered around the Union College grounds. For con- venience, these various func- tions can be classified as follows: Administration: Activities largely of .a· non-academic administrative nature, in- cluding Reception-Information counter; Center Director's Office; Dean of Students Offices, and Coordinator of Student Activities Office~ Student Activities: Activities dedicated to a specific function ·Of a special interest group that services the College com- ·munity. These include space .for the WRUC college radio station and student publications. - · ReservableSpace: This space is viewed as serving a large number of College groups who, on a reservable basis, gain access to the spaces. They are characteri~ed by their flexibility and ability to serve • several needs. Th~;se .spaces include meeting and media space; Conference Rooms; Cabaret .. Lounge, and a small auditorium. Social Space: These are spaces characterized by their public accessibility, en- couraging spontaneous and short duration involvement from Cellege Center occupants. Since the major goal of the Center is to stimulate in- feraction between dive.rse groups within a common space, . the Collage intends to dedicate the use of space for this pm·- pose. Included are: a reading- music-listening area; a game room, and the College Com.- mons. Food Services: These are spaces reserved for food preparation and service. Recommended for inclusion in the Center are: a Main Dining Hall (300 seats); a smaller Pub (150 seats); a central kitchen; storage area and Food Service Offices. Support. Services: These services will require space for the day\'to-day necessities of .life, such as: College mail service; the College Store, Book Store and offices. With the centralized myriad of services created by the new College Center in conjunction with the modern, atrium~like architecture it seems that great strides have been taken toward the betterment of many aspects of Union College life; Some issues to bear in mind for tonight: Why is tuition going up another 8%? And where will that m~mey be spent? Will course load reduction cause long-term problems as well as the short term problems it already has? Is Union on its way to 'becoming a small, private university instead of a small liberal arts college? Are you getting the education you expected when you came to Union? . What about curricular reform? And what will it do to future ge~erations of Union students? Why was student opinion (from last year's poll) disregarded in the College's decision to implement Gel-Time? ' . tl c Ul Ill C< is PI ef p aJ . al in S( b• lo rE bl Ill SI Ill a1 th aJ 81 dE lo kl PJ in th tb w gi is til pt st a, w C< in ql PI th fo C( h; u in in p4 e' rE w u rE w tb fe SC a fi: be la u yc it bt 01 al u to w al al pt al e: tt nl a: tt ill \\ 01 $i pl n1 si b: SJ b dt w l'4

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS Special Issue, Apri/14, 1986 <llJllt.Olrbirttsis Fowrdtrl al limon Collq:~ 1877 ----~------ -------- Groundwork Today, the Concordiensis staff brings to you the first Monday issue in several years. It is our in- tention in publishing this issue, that it serve as a summary of some of the more important problems that we believe the college has been faced with. The editorial board, in addition to several other concerned students, believed that this evening's panel discussion could lay the groundwork for open relations between all factions of the Union com- munity. As Union approaches its 200th birthday, the college is faced with many challenging decisions. We are concerned whether Union is adhering to its ideological bases. In all of this, the student must maintain an im- portant role. This evening, each and every student will have the ability to become a part of the problem solving network. It would be foolish for students to pass up the chance to make suggestions that might affect the rest of their lives. Every Union student has a vested interest in Un.ion! We urge all students, as well as all other members of the campus community to attend this evening's discussion. Our Future Does Union College offer the students what they want? This question has been the subject of discussion for the past few months and the present times may someday be reviewed as a watershed when observers judge the college and review its mistakes. Union and its administrators have been the object of a lot of criticism of late. Of course, the accusation of a lack of social alternatives on campus, due to the drinking age change, is at the top of everyone's list. However,there are many others. We can't understand why the cost of tuition has skyrocketed, while we don't seem to be getting a heck of a lot more for our money. While we used to go to classes with 12, 13, and 14 other students, we now find that there are 20, 30, and 40 students in them. In addition, students are closed out of courses and the entire registration procedure has become disappointing. The college has even been accused of a lack of concern for its students. Our security and safety has bec()me jeopardized in more than one way. ''A mad attacker\ runs around the campus discouraging women from walking alone at night. The paths and roadways are not cleared efficiently from snow and ice making everyday walking across campus a hazardous activity. Adding to all of this, our clock doesn't even keep the right time. Yes, the college and its administrators can deny that all or any of these are problems on the Union campus by providing us with all the \logical\ answers to these questions. Yes, there are ex- ceptions to many of these problems, but it is these problem as a whole \trend.\ And the students that are here today will go on, only because we don't have any alternatives. WE have no place else to go. But, the students of tomorrow will have choices. They will have the option to pay $5,000 or $6,000 to go to their state school rather than $14,000 or $15,0\l0 to go to Union, and you'll have to admit that we don't get $10,000 more education than SUNY Albany students. Even more, they'll know (from us) that what Union claims it offers simply isn't true. Union claims to be a small school. But WE don't get small classes, and we don't get professors that know our names, and we don't get the sec1:llity-safety of a small upstate college. We are not criticizing merely for the sake of criticism. Students here do have some legitimate complaints and have some good suggestions. So, the administrators that are sitting behind their desks and reading this and saying to them- selves: ~'It's only Concordiensis.They don't know what the:v're talking about\ better think twice about acting fast. Otherwise you'll be judged and 'your grave mistakes will be reviewed and we all won't be here to cry about them. Reprinted in part from an editorial that appeared in the February 6, 1986 is~ue of Concordiensis. College Construction: Renovations Progress This article is reprinted fro:tn the March 6, 1986 issue of Concordiensis, By LAURENCE MANNINO Extensive campus con· struction coupled with new . campus policy due to recently enacted legislation concerning · . the drinking age has had a rna~or impact on the social life of Union College students. These factors have, in effect, decentraH;:ed student activities here on. camptlS. In the hopes of , remedying t~1is problem, Carnegie Hall is cm-rently bein.g renovated and expanded thus creating a college center that will fill the void created by these various needs. Overall Plan Outlined The overall plan fgr this is as follows: The College Center will combine and consolidate in a structure of approximately 60,000 sq. feet a variety of support services, social spaces, reservable spaces, and ad- ministrative offices presently scattered around the Union College grounds. For con- venience, these various func- tions can be classified as follows: Administration: Activities ·. largely o·f a non-a·cademic administrative nature, in- cluding Reception-InformaUon counter; Center Director's Office; Dean of Students Offices, and Coordinator of Student Activities Office. Student Activities: Activities dedicated to a specific function of a special interest group that services the College com- munity. These include space for the WRUC college radio station and student publications. Reservable Space: This space is viewed as serving a large munber of College groups who, on a reservable basis, gain access to the spaces. They are characterized by their flexibility and ability to serve several needs. These spaces include meeting and media space; Conference Rooms; Cabaret-Lounge, and a small auditorium. Social Space: These are spaces characterized by their public accessibility, en- couraging spontaneous and short duration involvement from College Center occupants. Since the major goal of tlle Center is to stimulate in- teraction between diverse groups within a common space, the College intends to dedicate the use ef space for this pur- pose. Induded are: a reading- music-listenin.g area; a game room, and the College Corn- mons. Food Services: These are spaces reserved for food preparation and service. Recommended for inclusion in the Center are: a Main Dining Han (300 seats); a smaller Pub ( 150 seats) ; a central kitchen; storage area and Food Service Offices. Support Services: These services win require space for the day-to-day necessities of life, such as: College mail service; the College Store, Book Store and offices. With the centralized myriad of services created by the new College Center in conjunction with the modern, atrium-like architecture it seems that great strides have been taken toward the betterment of many aspects of Union College life. Wbat D·o You·· Think of· Schaler Lihrary Fa .. ., tties? ·~sebaffer library does not ~ave. ~~y ~nough materials. I rmd it -vlrtilallY . · ible 'o do · a research pap re. r think: Union st.owd deflrutQly invest a good amount of its funds to expand the library.\ -Michele Kupfer~ '.OIJ · .. The books seem to oo out- datedt which makes it difficult to do research on contemporary top~es. We need more eurri;mt volu:mes.~' · -Steve Mos~, •.or . \I feel the faeilitias of th~ 'library are adequate for rii!!seareh, but the books seem to be ancient.\ · . -Anonymous '~'l'beytre inadequate. There's not enough refer~nc.-e bo~ks tG s!(lfficiently cnmplete any fu- cl~pth )Qng term paper. n -Anonymi)us,. •m ''It lacks many updat~d books. , for the .. social sciences. 'l'J:wugh · for .a small seht~ol the facilities are not that bad,-my high school was just as good if not better~~~ -Anonymous, '86 \So far it bas suited roy purposes-it's a pretty good place to study.\ -J.D., '89 \The selection is outdated. Research concerning modern topics is almost impossible: I do all my research at Albany; The library is also too cramped and d(les not provide you with suitable, noise .. free . stucly areas.'' -Anonymous. '87 ~'From personal eXperience, the seleetiQn :Of books ~s not adequate. aQ:W!.'!'Ver, I have bee:il told that thisJs the fault of the individu~ depmments E.or nGt ordering up-to-date materia:Js that their students need. u -stanley Feren~::e. ·oo ''I bate the downstairs. There sh'{)uld be $Ome place to study jC g·: O:b . d +nU .... .;L. re .. :o\'e\ .er ap ~ w ~~e .... no. one gets upset. Nice select~bn.\ -An!lnmn,l<Jus be lab;,st date is t91>1. · s seriously lacking~'~ \\'\'Anonymous. tgs; ~·seems fine but we nee!l mGrebooks and other ~ources.;! ~PatVirnicn, •ss ·· ~'They never have the books or periodicals that I am lookiDg for w~en doing research. ~; tj}ey,: 13bould keep mare Qf the Ubrary <~pe~ past ll~ilO-the all ~:d;ln~.\ study i=> alwaj's tQo • Jll)j$r.\ ' -AnonYmous, tilt a~~t~:JsR:ac!r:fn ~~Pr •. I amount of journals and l:{ ''the p:mblem that disturi)s wUhin this are. I realize there is m.=! . tile most is the lack ()f limited IWace •. ~utlUlt..~tb~.n~w. mm:f!»'tablt'l .facilities in ,w:mm system.m the l;las.em.ent. ~,,f.ar tn\~ud:v· Reamng chairs are. as, the interliQJ:~O' SH$t~m €iQ~, . . g~{i~t~;,, the .b,~~t ·is- iJcy ~d it'~ .a go.op ~!ilrvice, . but . .it.. ~ .... b;~~~c~.af;ldJnatw oft;he.~tudy diffi~lllt for someon~ \doing ~~,are.m hightr.affic.areas.'\ research to know what books he ,, . ........Anony:mous .. needs without be.ing a,ble,,,t!i)< see them and skim thr them. ~JLib~ary facilities ~;e ;err · Tllust it~s kind of ult to . . ble. · i:l:ut . snme:times: select the books that Will be 1ri S\)uvees ... really useful.'~ -Tim Lucey, '89 -Anonymous, '3'1 \I know it's a popular com\ plaint, but I've never had any research problems with . the library. It seems wen .. equipped to me, and I've done tots of papers here.\ -Anonymous, '36 \I never gO< to the library because you can't get anything done-too social.'' · -Ammymous, '88 \Inadequate! (Interlibrary loan is good, though). Example: a book on genetics or blood \I~adequate number of study ar~as-space could be used mor~ efficiently. Books are old and nutdated and the selection • ·. limit -i' \ IS . . eu. -Anonymous, '88 \A great place to socialize. and even study if yGu're in the m{)od.\ \Facilities fadlities?\ -Anonymous . . . what -Anonymous Some issues to bear in mind for tonight: Why is tuition going up another 8%? And where will that money be spent? Will course load reduction cause long-term problems as well as the short term problems it already has? Is Union on its way to·becoming a small, private university instead of a small liberal arts college? Are you getting the education you expected when you came to Union? What about curricular reform? And what will it do to future generations of Union students? Why was student opinion (from last year's poll) disregarded in the College's decision to implement Gel- Time? tl c ill m C< is PI ef p al al in S( bl dt lo kl p1 in tll th w gl is til pt st a, w C< in Ql PI tll fc C( hl u in in pt e) rE w u rE w tt fe S< a fi b~ la u Yt it b• 01 a1 tt tc w aJ aJ P• aJ eJ tt n1 a: tt ir: \ 01 $~ pi n1 si b: SJ b d' w I' I

I' ' CONCORDIENSIS SP_eciallssue, April 14, 1986 Page3 Course Load Reduction Explained This article is reprinted from the February 27, 1986 issue of Concordieosis. By JOY RUNYON Students seem to be more unhappy now than ever, due to many factors. One of the main components of this Qnhappiness is the reduction of the professorialcourse load and the effect of this reduction. Dr. Thomas 0' Andrea, Vic~ President of the College, gives ··~ answers in response to the abundant criticism. Also in this interview, . he iriforms us of some possible solutions that are being worked out at this time. bringing our teachingload down to accompliSh what we thought was very important: more time for preparation, for individual attention with students, and to be competitive with other in~ stitutions for the best faculty. JR: Do you find that the number of introductory courses and the sections of tbose courses is comparable to the nllilJber offered in previous years? · TD: Theyearisn'tover, so we can't ·tell with precision. In engineering, we're offering · more sections. In the sciences, we're about the same. In the humanities and social sciences, we're offering slightly fewer sections as of this point last year. It's a little hard to com- pare mid-year when you have another term to go. We have already added extra faculty. It will take a while for that to cases depar.tments ·simply eliminated courses from their curriculum that they feel are no longer necessary. That gives. them flexibility for offering more introductory courses. Some are experilpenting with different .formats. Perhaps a larger class at the intro level in order to preserve what might be important at tne advanced level, such as the senior thesis or advanced research~ It's just a fact of arithmetic that if you're .going to have a one-to- one course in the senior thesis, there's going to have to be a course with 30 or 40 students in it. JR: As of now,· are most professors assigned to in- troductory courses, or do they choose whether or not they want to teach an intro course? .Joy,Ruoyon: Since the course load for the professors has been reduced, the class sizes have been getting larger. One of the main attractions of Union is the smcill ciass size. Wouldn't it make sense to maintain this attraction at any cost rather than allow such an admirable and attractive quality to slip away? Tllomas .D'Andrea:~ The decision to reduce, the teaching load was· made with the knowledge that there would probably be some upward drift in mean class size. Never- theless, we-were convinced that the quality of the teaching would improve on several grounds. not the least of which is (tne professors') preparation time. Time for consultation and personal attention of the students would be more available if the teaching load were closer to that of our competition. The other, more indirect way in which the quality of the education im- proves as the result of that is that we are more competitive for the best faculty. No other college of Union's calibre has or had as heavy a teaching load as Unio11 did. The class size has nbt increased across the College, incidentally. \I think it's almost a Pavlovian _response on ~he .part of some_ people, faculty included, to think that the only effective teaching takes place in small classes.\ \Decreased·Size In Engineering Classes\ It's decreased almost 20 percent in engineering, for e~mple. I think what that really reflects is that in places where we've been able to an- ticipate pressures, we have responded to them. In places where we could not anticipate the shift in interest or the dif- ferent patterns of enrollment, some .of the classes have gotten a little larger. My preliminary figures show in the neigh- borh(}od of about 10 to 13 percent larger-primarily in Division 2, the Social Sciences. But when you say at all costs to preserve it, we must keep in mind who bears the (.!ost, and I don't think one DUght to try to preserve that at all costs when you consider that we have made every effort to keep tuition as reasonable as we could. . JR:The tuition is increased by another eight percent each year anyWay. Would that make the percentage even greater, like another eight percent? TD: I couldn't give you an exact figure on that. One way to think about this is that every new assistant professor, assuming that you are hiring at the lowest level, for example, is in tne neighborhood of $23,000. When you add fringe benefits onto that, it can cost you around $30,000 for a newly minted professor. You•d need quite a number of those to reduce class size .significantly. Divide that by 2,000 and also consider office space arid laboratories. In our best judgment, a prudent decision was made balancing . what the College could . reasonably afford while still • catch up. You don't have the flexibility in a system like a college. For example, if English courses are over-subscribed and math courses are under- subscribed you can;t simply go to the math professor and say, \Sorry we need you to teach English this term.\ There's an inertia or a lag built into the system that doesn't enable you to respond immediately when you have pressures. I think it's almost a Pavlovian response on the part of some people, faculty included, to think that the only effective teaching takes place in small classes. It's interesting tOl notice that some of our most · popular courses and professors routinely teach to very large classes. Some people are more effective in large settings and some in smaller. The mean class size this Winter term versus last Winter term is something in. the neighborhood of 22 to 24. I re~lly wonder if you can tell the difference with that magnitude of change. That's not to say that if a course has typically been drawing 20 students and suddenly it's 40 that you're not going to notice the difference. The instructor will notice the difference when he has 40 papers to grade. Those are aberrations that you can't anticipate. RespoJise? The response is either to teach al140 or to tell 20 of them, \Sorry you'll have to find something else,\ which then causes a whole different set of · problems. I think we're responding responsibly to student shifts in interest and shifts in registration, but in some cases it certainly caught us by Surprise. JR: I'd iike to get back to the introductory course questions for a minute. Have you decided to cycle more upper level courses in lieu of cutting in- troductory courses? TD: Different departments have responded to that . in dif- ferent ways. They are, after all, the primary pedagogical decision of how to deploy their resources. One way to keep introductory classes smaller is to cycle more of the advanced . courses, and some departments have chosen to do that. In some -D'Andrea m: Again, the departments have primary responsibility and authority over this, but one of the strengths of a college like Union is that faculty teach at pretty much all levels. We really expect our faculty to be able to teach intro and in- termediate and advanced level courses, and they do. I think it would be unhealthy for our faculty at Union to be only teaching advanced level courses, or on the other hand, only teaching intro level courses. Class Size vs. Ratio JR: There's a lot of discussion on campus about the student- faculty ratio being 1:13 and last week in Concord.ie,nsis someone wrote a letter to the editor saying that there are over 200- faculty listed, so the ratio is actually lower. But students still wonder why the large class size. Could you explain the relation between class size and the ratio? m: There may well be 200 names listed, but to u.se that for the ratio would be misleading. There are a nUmber of ap- pointments, if you read carefully, like. research associates; there are emeritus faculty listed back there who are retired. The real way to do that, the most honest way, is to take the number of actual teaching faculty. If you take that number you come up with approximately 155 full-time faculty teaching at Union in the Fall term. Then you divide the number of students by that and you come up with about 13.3 for the Fall term. You have 13 for the · ratio, but every student takes nine courses a year and every faculty teaches six:. We have 2,000 students and 150 faculty. That means we're going . to have 18,000 · registrations and 900 courses. And so that divides out to a mean class size · of 20, even though the ratio is 13. When the College advertises a studente faculty ratio, that doesn't mean that the average class size is going to equal that ratio because you also have to know how many courses a student . takes and how many courses a professor teaches. Then you can figure out what you would ex- pect the mean class size to be. What this number doesn't do is factm· out the release time that a department head gets for administrative duties. And there are a few other anomalies. So it turns out that the mean class size is in the neighborhood of 22 to 24. · .Tit: What, in general, is your impression of the unrest going on about this? Legitbnate complaint TD: Well, the one thing that I think students really have a legitimate complaint about is the situation where they were closed out of a course twice in a row. That's something you can respond to by keeping the waiting list from Fall term and giving preference to those people who,did.n't get in the first • . time, assuming they still want to take the course. I've in· . structed the department heads to readdress that problem and try to make sure that a student who wanted to get into the course in the Fall and gets left ottt in the Winter ge~s preference in the Spring. The other thing that I believe is a • little bit backwards is the practice in some places of giving .preference to seniors in introductory level courses. I think that prefer.ence for ad- mission into intro classes should go to freshmen, then sophomores, and on up. It's at that level that the student needs to explore different possibilities. A last.term senior who wants to get into an in~ troductory sociology class does not have as compelling a need as a freshman or sophomore who says, \I wonder if I'd be interested in this field.'' We do have different patterns of student enrollment. What must be very, very annoying is to be closed out twice for the same course. That's something I think we ought to address and we can address with simple measures. JR: Getting even more general, how do you feel about the general dis.content at the College this term? It's no secret that most of it is caused by the dr::inking age. Do you think it's · going to get better? Do you think that students really have a reason for their unhappiness? Spilling Over TD: I think that's spilling over into all sorts of other things. It has caused a major disruption in the social life of students and it's like kicking the cat when something goes wrong. r think it's interesting that students weren't so unhappy during Fall term, and we didn't have Carnegie; we didh't have the gym, and people were closed out of classes Fall term, too. I don't think that students are .U'nhappy out of some perversity, and ·suddenly they decided, we're going to be unhappy and make the ad- ministration miserable. But the single event that has happened in their life has nothing, really, to do with the College. It's going to take a while for new social patterns to be learned. That single event has exacerbated whatever inconvenience and discomfort results from Car- negie being closed, the gym being closed, the terrible Schnectady weather in the last month, and the normal frustration of being closed out of class. It's elevated all these things-to some extent, out of propoJ:;tion, I would think. .fit: Is there anything I haven't mentioned that you'd like to comment on? Irrationality TD: I guess I'm a little sur- prised at what I think is the irrationality of some of the complaints. There is in- formation available about class sizes. If one is confused about the nature of the student-faculty ratio, there are ways to discover that. If one is unhappy about the library, one has to get some certain facts about the condition of the library at Union College. I guess I'm a little disappointed that the vigor of the reaction was not ac- companied by some basic research into the true facts of the situation.

1 ' .1. '~ ' CONCORD/ENSIS Special Issue, April II, 1986 Page3 Course Load Reduction Explained This article is reprinted from the February 27, 1986 issue of Concordiensis. By JOY RUNYON Studen.ts seem to be mere unhappy now than ever, due to many factors. One of the main components of this unhappiness is the redaction of the professorial course load and the effect of this reduction. Dr. Thomas D'Andrea, Vice Presidei:Jt of the Cellege, gives a11swers in response to the abundant criticism. Also in this interview, he informs us of some possible solutions that are being worked out at this time. Joy Runyon.: Since the course load for the professors has been reduced, the class sizes have been getting larger. 0Fte of the main attractions of Union is the small class size. Wouldn't it make sense to maintain this attraction at any cost rather than allow such an admirable and attractive quality to slip away? Thomas .D'Andrea:· The decision to reduce the teaching load was· made with the knowledge that there would probably be some upward drift in mean class size. Never- theless, we were convinced that the quality of the teaching would improve on several grounds, not the least of which is (the professors') preparation time. Time for consultation and personal attention of the students would be more available if tile teaching load were closer to that of our competition. The other, more indirect way in which the quality of the education im- proves as the result of that is that we are more competitive for the best faculty. No other college of Union's calibre has or had as heavy a teaching load as Union did. The class size has not increased across the College, incidentally. \Decreased Size In Engineering Classes\ It's decreased almost 20 percent in engineering, for example. I think what that really reflects is that in places where we've been able to an- ticipate pressures, we have responded to them. In places where we could not anticipate the shift in interest or the dif- ferent patterns of enrollment, some of the classes have gotten a little larger. My preliminary figures show in the neigh- borhood of a bout 10 to 13 percent larger-primarily in Division 2, the Social Sciences. But when you say at all costs to pre:;;erve it, we must keep in mind who bears the cost, and I don't think one ought to try to preserve that at all costs when you consider that we have made every effort to keep tuition as reasonable as we could. JR: The tuition is increased by another eight percent each year anyway. Would that make the percentage even greater, like another eight percent? TD: I couldn't give you an exact figure on that. One way to think about this is that every new assistant professor, assuming that you are hiring at the lowest 1evel, for example, is in the neighborhood of $23,000. When you add fringe benefits onto that, it can cost you around $30,000 for a newly minted professor. You'd need quite a number of those to reduce class size significantly. Divide that by 2,000 and also consider office space and laboratories. In our best judgment, a prudent decision was made balancing what the College could reasonably afford while still bringing GUr teaching load down to accomplish what we thGught was very important: more time for preparation, for individual attention with students, and to be competitive with other in- stitutions for the best faculty. JR: Do you find that the number of introductory CGUrses and the sections of these courses is comparable to the number offered in previous years? TD: The year isn't over, so we can't tell with precision. In engineering, we're offering mere sections. In the sciences, we're about the same. In the humanities and social sciences, we're offering slightly fewer sections as of this point last year. It's a little hard to com- pare mid-year when you have another term to go. We have already added extra faculty. It wiU take a while for that to cases departments simply eliminated courses from their curriculum that they feel are no longer necessary. That gives them flexibility for offering more introductory c0urses. Some are experimenting with different formats. Perhaps a larger class at the intro level in order to preserve what might be important at the advanced level, such as the senior thesis or advanced research. It's just a fact of arithmetic that if you're going to have a one-to- one course in the senior thesis, there's going to have to be a course with 30 or 40 students in it. JR: As of now, are most professors assigned to in- troductory courses, or do they Cb'>ose whether or not they want to teach an intro course? \I think it's almost a Pavlovian response on the part of some people, faculty included, to thiltk that the only effective teaching takes place in small classes.\ catch up. You don't have the flexibility in a system like a college. For example, if English courses are over-subscribed and math courses are under- subscribed you can't simply go to the math professor and say, \Sorry we need you to teach English this term.\ There's an inertia or a lag built into the system that doesn't enable you to respond immediately when you have pressures. I think it's almost a Pavlovian response on the part of some people, faculty included, to think that the only effective teaching takes place in small classes. It's interesting to notice that some of our most popular courses and professors routinely teach to very large classes. Some people are more effective in large settings and some in smaller. The mean class size this Winter term versus last Winter term is something in the neighborhood of 22 to 24. I really wonder if you can tell the difference with that magnitude of change. That's not to say that if a course has typically been drawing 20 students and suddenly it's 40 that you're not going to notice the difference. The instructor will notice the difference when he has 40 papers to grade. Those are aberrations that you can't anticipate. Response? The response is either to teach all 40 or to tell 20 of them, \Sorry you'll have to find something else,\ which then causes a whole different set of problems. I think we're responding responsibly to student shifts in interest and shifts in registration, but in some cases it certainly caught us by surprise. JR.: I'd like to get back to the introductory course questions for a minute. Have you decided to cycle more upper level courses in lieu of cutting in- troductory courses? TD: Different departments have responded to that in dif- ferent ways. They are, after all, the primary pedagogical decision of how to deploy their resources. One way to keep introductory classes smaller is to cycle more of the advanced courses, and some departments have chosen to do that. In some .. D'Andrea TD: Again, the departments have primary responsibility and authority over this, but one of the strengths of a college like Union is tlilat faculty teach at pretty much all levels. We really expect our faculty to be able to teach intro and in- termediate and advanced level courses, and they do. I think it would be unhealthy for our faculty at Union to be only teaching advanced level courses, or on the other hand, only teaching intro level courses. Class Size vs. Ratio JR: There's a lot of discussion on campus about the student· faculty ratio being 1: 13 and last week in Concordiensis someone wrote a letter to the editor saying that there are over 200 faculty listed, so the ratio is actually lower. But students still wonder why the large class size. Could you explain the relation between class size and the ratio? TD: There may well be 200 names listed, but to use that for the ratio would be misleading. There are a number of ap- pointments, if you read carefully, like. research associates; there are emeritus faculty listed back there who are retired. The real way to do that, the most honest way, is to take the number of actual teaching faculty. If you take that number you come up with approximately 155 full-time faculty teaching at Union in the Fall term. Then you divide the number or students by that and you come up with about 13.3 for the Fall term. You have 13 for the ratio, but every student takes nine courses a year and every faculty teaches six. We have 2,000 students and 150 faculty. That means we're going to have 18,000 registrations and 900 courses. And so that divides out to a mean class size of 20, even though the ratio is 13. When the College advertises a student· faculty ratio, that doesn't mean that the average class size is going to equal that ratio because you also have to know how many courses a student I takes and how many courses a professor teaches. Then you can figure out what you would ex- pect the mean class size to be. What this number doesn't do is factor out the release time that a department head gets for administrative duties. And there are a few other anGmaUes. So it turns out that the mean class size is in the neighborhood of 22 to 24. JR: What, in general, is your impression of the unrest going on about this? Legitimate Complaint TD: Well, the one thing that I think students really have a legitimate complaint about is the situatioR where they were closed out of a course twice in a row. That's something you can respond to by keeping the waiting list from Fall term and giving preference to those people who didn't get in the first time, assuming they still want to take the course. I've in- structed Ute department heads to readdress that problem and try to make sure that a student who wanted to get into the course in the Fall and gets left out in the Winter gets preference in the Spring. The other thing that I believe is a . little bit backwards is the practice in some places of .giving preference to seniors in introductory level courses. I think that preference for ad- mission into intro classes should go to freshmen, then sophomores, and on up. It's at that level that the student needs to explore different possibilities. A last-term senior who wants to get into an in- troductory sociology class does not have as compelling a need as a freshman or sophomore who says, \I wonder if I'd be interested in this field.\ We do have different patterns of student enrollment. What must be very, very annoying is to be closed out twice for the same course. That's something I think we ought to address and we can address with simple measures. JR: Getting even more general, how do you feel about the general discontent at the College this term? It's no secret that most of it is caused by the drinking age. Do you think it's going to get better? Do you think that students really have a reason for their unhappiness? SpilUng Over TD: I think that's spilling over into all sorts of other things. It has caused a major disruption in the social life of students and it's like kicking the cat when something goes wrong. I think it's interesting that students weren't so unhappy dHring Fa11 term, and we didn't have Carnegie, we didn't have the gym, and people were closed out of classes Fall term, too. I don't think that students are unhappy out of some perversity, and suddenly they decided, we're going to be unhappy and make the ad- ministratioFl miserable. But the single event that has happened in their life has nothing, really, to do with the College. It's going to take a while for new social patterns to be learned. That single event has exacerbated whatever inconvenience aRd discomfort results from Car- negie being closed, the gym being closed, the terrible Schnectady weather in the last month, and the normal frustration of being closed out of class. It's elevated all these things-to some extent, out of proportion, I would think. JR: Is there anything I haven't mentioned that you'd like to comment on? Irrationality TD: r guess I'm a little sur- prised at what I think is the irrationality of some of the complaints. There is in- formation available about class sizes. If one is confused about the nature of the student-faculty ratio, there are ways to discover that. If one is unhappy about the library, one has to get some certain facts about the condition of the library at Union College. I guess I'm a little disappointed that the vigor of the reaction was not ac- companied by some basic research into the true facts of the situation.

Page4 '' CONCORDIENSIS Special Issue, April 14, 1986 - 0 ou .. e out e ·uture ......... nion? presents: ''. AnEveningof Discussion with- President Morris and Vice ... Presidents D'j4ndrea and Hauser 7: Op.m. - Old Chapel Dessert and Coffee Reception to Follow.· I . : J w' Ill. ' . ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ( ] l - l 1 ' . I r

Page 4 '' CONCORDIENSJS Special Issue, Apri/14, 1986 0 ou ......... are ·OUt e uture • ? ~nton. • presents: '' An Evening of Discussion with President Morris and • Vice-Presidents D'Andrea and Hauser 7: Op.m. Old Chapel Dessert and Coffee Reception to Follow. l . .1. i > - ( ] n tl iJ c c a n Il tl e

.. . CXV, No . .IS Role of Faculty Review Board Qarified. By JOANNE McANDREWS The Faculty Review Board meets altnost every week for the entire school year, and is involved in making decisions concerning faculty salary, contract renewal, promotions,- and tenure decisions. \Nobody will receive the . merit p~y increment if his/her teaching is not up to a Jligh standard.'' · There are two groups of faculty on th~ Board-tenured faculty members and pre- tenure faculty members this year. The senior faculty members include Professort~ Thomas Jewell, Civil Engineering; Joseph Schmee, IAM Social Sciences; Peter Tobiessen, Biological Sciences; Jan Ludwig, Philosophy; pnd a mem.Der elected ±rom the facu1ty at large, Kenneth Schick,Pbysics. The pre-tenure faculty members are Lawrence McGahey., Chemistry; and Mark Tober, Classics. There are also several Ex-officio members: Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea; Dean of Continuing Education Arnold Gussin; Associate Dean of Faculty Ilene Kaplan; and Affirmative Action Officer Margaret Schadler. As e~plained by Professor Kenn~th Schick, Union bas a system of merit pay for its professors. Stated Schick, \Every other year a . faculty member.is evaluated for special merit increments. About one- third of the faculty who are evaluated for these increments actually receive them. There are two categories of merit pay-;-Merit 1 and Merit 2. A faculty· member is recom- mended for Merit 1 pay when he-she is judged by our com- mittee to be especially strong in the teaching or scholarship category and strong in the other category. A smaller group of the faculty receives Merit 2 pay~these are the individuals whose performance is out- standing in both categories. Schick explained, ''A given professor may be nominated for · a merit increment for either teaching or · scholarship. Regardless of which area the nomination is in, the faculty member must be strong in the other area as . well. For example, if tbe faculty member is nominated for scholarship, our committee has to be con- . vinced that the professor is also effective in teaching. Nobody will receive the merit pay in- Cl'ement if his-her teaching is not up to a high standard. The teaching must be . good. Alternatively, the professor nominated for teaching should . be active in his-her field to received merit pay. Those professors receive Merit l. These who are outstanding in both categories receive Merit 2. At Union, review for promotion from Assistant to Associate Professor usually occurs at the same time as the professor is being reviewed for tenure. Review for promotion to full professor occurs at a future appropriate time. Schick commented that student _Continued on page 2 April17, 1986 Vice·Presi~ent for Academic Affairs, Thomas D'Andrea discusses course load reduction, while Pres'ident John Morris and Vice President for F ina.nce John Hauser look on. Top Union Administrators Address Student Questions ''State of The Union'' Draws Large Attendance ByLORIOLlWENSTEIN On Monday, April 14, Con• cordiensis sponsored a well- publicized evening of panel. discussion featuring Union's administration officials entitled \The State of the Union.\ The panelists included President John Morris, Vice President Thomas D'Andrea, Vice President John Hauser and Faculty Trustee Charles Tid- march. The student and faculty turnout was large and en- couraging; Union's supposed student apathy was nowhere in sight as the ground floor of the .. Old Chapel was filled to capacity with concerned members of the college com- munity. Close to 200 students and faculty members were present. The evening began with a speech from each of the panel members on an area of their expertise. President Morris spoke first, giving a short history of the planning that has . been occurring in the past five to six years at Union. He then went on to explain the reasoning behind many of the changes that have been taking place on campus this year. \The campus that this was done to \make sure that we can get the kind of faculty that is absolutely esseptial for your quality education.\ Vice President D'Andrea was the next panelist to speak, and he immediately opened with an elaboration of President Morris's comments on course load reduction. ''There are really no colleges of Union's calibre requiring the load which we required,\ D'Andrea said, also mentioning stresses put on professors to not only continue Moss Named Finatist in Time Competition · needed a lot of work\ ad.Jhi.tted the President, but state.d that the work was all being done through gifts and grants, · monies that do not come out of the normal budget, and therefore do not reduce the quality of other areas of the college through financial stresses. . the quality of education found at Union, but to keep up with their fields. D'Andrea also stated his belief that most ofthe problems at Union right now are not at- tributable to course load reduction. He then continued to elaborate on other current curriculum changes, such as thee introduction of courses under the Sloan Foundation grant which has just been renewed for Union for five more This year· Time magazine conducted its first College Achievement Awards Program, whicb consisted of a nationwide search of college juniors who excell in both academics and extracurricular activities. Time received 10,000 application \- Cll .Q :I L C) 41 > ro 0 > .Q ~ { ... ' .c: a. ~ \ • ·:. 1._ -_ .'; -:··~ •• ' :.Y.- ... requests which produced 750 nominations for the award. Steven Moss, a member of the class of 1987 at Union, was chosen one of the 100 finalists were . selected for scholarships of $3.000. and were featured in the April . 7 campus edition of By DAVID GULLIVER Time. The eighty other finalists, including Moss. received certificates of. merit and were also listed in Time. In addition, all of the tOO students will be given priril.ary consideration for internships with Time, Ford Motor Corp., IBM, Procter & Gamble, American Express, and the Navy Officer Program. Moss read about the com- petition in Time in September of ·1985 and was encouraged to apply by Dean of Students Joseph Mammola. The ap- plication consisted ·of two essays which d~onstrated \evidence of excellence\ the .student's college transcript, and three outside rec.om- . mendations. Students could · · apply in one of nine categories, including student government, journalism, fine arts, en- trepreneurship, and athletics among others. Moss chose the area of student government. He is currently vice president for administration of the Student · Ji'orum and a student member of the Subcouncil on the Curriculum of the Academic Affairs Council. \My essays,\ Moss said, \emphasized what I got out of student government; what I learned from my ex- periences.\ He is a Mechanical ·Engineering major and is currently planning on attending Medical School. · The application was due on December 31 and Time an- nounced the finalists and prize winners on March 5. Judging was cond~cted by Time and a panel of 100 experts from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education which is also responsible for the Professor of the Year Award, the Jefferson Medal and many other education awards. On March 31, Time held a dinner for the finalists at Windcws on the W()rld in New York City. The next day, the students met with represen- tatives from the various companies providing in· ternsbips, and, according to Moss, the results will be released m. the near future. He cited Carnegie as a specific example of an area that needed renovation; Carnegie had been a mechanical egineering building in the past and \did not adapt well to function as a student center.\ President Morris went on to tell us that \the fact that you missed it so much tells me that it is needed,\ and . that he Jjeli,ved therefore, that the renovation was more than . justified. He also addressed the issue of why both Carnegie and Alumni Gym were put out of action at once. He said that this way, first of all, it \did not prolong the agony,'' and then explained that an additional factor, a new tax law, made it economical to act as quickly as ·possible. In closing, he address.ed the issue of course load reduction, stating · years. He also discussed the curriculum as a whole, speaking about general education and the role which humanities plays in a liberal education, mentioning the current debate over the concept of clusters as a substitute for present liberal arts requirements. He concluded with statements about the condition of Schaffer Library, calling it \a secure place .for colleges of our size and status.\ He said that planning is currently going on Which will address the problem of space, and that as for the climate control it was an \engineering disappointment\ but that it is \not as serious as some would have you believe.\ Continued on page 2

. , T CXV, No .. l8 Role of Faculty Review Board Oarified. By JOANNE McANDREWS The Faculty Review Board meets almost every week for the entire school year, and is involved in making decisions concerning faculty salary, c~mtract renewal, promotions,- and tenure decisions. '\Nobody will receive the merit pay increment if his/her teaching is not up to a high standard.\ There are two groups of faculty on the Board-tenured faculty members and pre- tenure faculty members tilis year. The senior faculty members include Profess@rs Thomas Jewell, Civil Engineering; Joseph Schmee, lAM Social Sciences; Peter Tobiessen, Biological Sciences; Jan Ludwig, Philosophy; and a member elected trom the faculty at large, Kenneth Schick, Physics. The pre-tenure faculty members are Lawrence McGahey, Chemistry; and Mark Toher, Classics. There are also several Ex-officio members: Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea; Dean of Continuing Education Arnold Gussin; Associate Dean of Faculty Ilene Kaplan; and Affirmative Action Officer Margaret Schadler. As explained by Profess<lr Kenneth Schick, Union has a system of merit pay for its p1·ofessors. Stated Schick, ''Every other year a faculty member is evaluated for special merit increments. About one- third of the faculty who are evaluated for these increments actually receive them. There are twe categories of merit pay-Merit 1 and Merit 2. A faculty member is recom- mended for Merit 1 pay when he-she is judged by our com- mittee to be especially strong in the teaching or schoiarship category and strong in the other categary. A smaller group of the faculty receives Merit 2 pay-these are the individuals whose performance is out- standing in both categories. Schick explained, \A given professor may be nominated for a merit increment for either teaching or scholarship. Regardless of which area the nomination is in, the faculty member must be strong in the other area as well. For example, if the faculty member is nominated for scholarship, our committee has to be con- vinced that the professor is also effective in teaching. Nobody will receive the merit pay in- crement if his-her teaching is not up to a high standard. The teaching must be good.. Alternatively, the professor nominated for teaching should be active in his-her field t<l received merit pay. Those professors receive Merit 1. Those who are outstanding in both categories receive Merit 2. At Uni<ln, review for promotion from Assistant i() Associate Professor usually occurs at the same time as the professor is being reviewed for tenure. Review for promotion to full professor occurs at a future appropriate time. Schick commented that student Continued on page~ Vice-President for Academic Affairs, Thomas D'Andrea discusses course load reduction, while President John Morris and Vice Presidentfor Finance John Hauser look on. Top Union Administrators Address Student Questions ''State of The Union\ Draws Large Attendance By LORI OLIWENSTEIN On Monday, April 14, Com- cordiensis sponsored a well- publicized evening of panel. discussion featuring Union's administration officials entitled \The State of the Union.\ The panelists included President John Morris, Vice President Thomas D'Andrea, Vice President John Hauser and Faculty Trustee Charles Tid- march. The student and faculty turnout was large and en- couraging; Union's supposed student apathy was nowhere in sight as the ground floor of the Old Chapel was filled to capacity with concerned members of the college com- munity. Close to 200 students and faculty members were present. that this was done to \make sure that we can get the kind of faculty thflt is absolutely essential for your quality education.\ Moss Named Finalist in Time Competition The evening began with a speech from each of the panel members on an area of their expertise. President Morris spoke first, giving a short history of the planning that has been occurring in the past fi.ve to six years at Union. He then went on to explain the reasoning behind many of the changes that have been taking place on campus this year. \The campus needed a lot of work\ admitted the President, but stated that the work was all being done through gifts and grants, monies that do not come out of the normal budget, and therefore do not reduce the quality of other areas of the college through financial stresses. Vice President D'Andrea was the next panelist to speak. and he immediately opened with an elaboration of President Morris's comments on course load reduction. \There are really no colleges of Union's calibre requiring the load which we required,\ D'Andrea said, also mentioning stresses put on professors to not only continue the quality of education found at Union, but to keep up with their fields. D'Andrea also stated his belief that most of the problems at Union right now are not at- tributable to course load reduction. He then continued to elaborate on other current curriculum changes, such as thee introduction of courses under the Sloan Foundation grant which has just been renewed for Union for five more years. He also discussed the curriculum as a whole, speaking about general education and the role which humanities plays in a liberal education, mentioning the current debate over the concept of clusters as a substitute for present liberal arts requirements. This year Time magazine conducted its first College Achievement Awards Program, which cansisted of a nationwide search of college juniors who excell in both academics and extracurricular activities. Time received 10,000 application ,_ I]) .0 :I ,_ <!> I]) > 10 0 >- .0 E 0 .c c. ~ ,; requests which produced 750 nominations for the award . Steven Moss, a member of the class of 1987 at Union, was chosen one of the 100 finalists were selected for scholarships of $3,000 and were featured in the April 7 campus edition of By DAVID GULLIVER Time. The eighty other finalists, including Moss, received certificates of merit and were also listed in Time. In addition, all of the 100 students will be given primary consideration for internships with Time, Ford Motor Corp., IBM, Procter & Gamble, American Express, and the Navy Officer Program. Moss read about the com- petition in Time in September of 1985 and was encouraged to apply by Dean of Students Joseph Marnmola. The ap- plication consisted of two essays which demonstrate<! \evidence of excellence\ the student's college transcript, and three outside recom- mendations. Students could apply in one of nine categories, including student government, journalism, fine arts, en- trepreneurship, and athletics among others. Moss chose the area of student government. He is currently vice president for administration of the Student Forum and a student member of the Subcouncil on the Curriculum of the Academic Affairs Council. \My essays,\ Moss said, \emphasized what I got out of student government; what I learned from my ex- periences.\ He is a Mechanical Engineering major and is currently planning on attending Medical School. The application was due on December 31 and Time an- nounced the finalists and prize winners on March 5. Judging was conducted by Time and a panel of 100 experts from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education which is also responsible for the Professor of the Year Award, the Jefferson Medal and many other educati<ln awards. On March 31, Time held a dinner for the finalists at Windows on the World in New York City. The next day, the students met with represen- tatives from the various companies providing in- ternships, and, according to Moss, the results will be released in the near future. He cited Carnegie as a specific example of an area that needed renovation; Carnegie had been a mechanical egineering building in the past and \did not adapt well to function as a student center.\ President Morris went on to tell us that \the fact that you missed it so much tells me that it is needed,\ and that he beli~ved therefore, that the renovation was more than justified. He also addressed the issue of why both Carnegie and Alumni Gym were put out of action at once. He said that this way, first of all, it \did not prolong the agony,\ and then explained that an additional factor, a new tax law, made it economical to act as quickly as possible. In closing, he addressed the issue of course load reduction, stating He concluded with statements about the condition of Schaffer Library, calling it \a secure place for colleges of our size and status.\ He said that planning is currently going on which will address the problem of space, and that as for the climate control it was an \engineering disappointment\ but that it is \not as serious as some would have you believe.\ Continued on page 2

l>age 2 L\YJNCORDIENSIS Apri/17, 1986 Panel Discussion c·alls Attention to Student Concerns .... cu .0 ::J 1.. (.!) cu > Ill Q >- .0 0 .... 0 .c c.-. Continued from page 1 Faculty Trustee Charles Tidmarch speaks on the need for ad- ministration,. faculty, and students to work together. Vice President Hauser then discussed his role as Vice President of Finance and Administration. He listed his dp.ties as including accounting, personnel, insurance, .physical plant~ safety and security, campus .planning and ·~elecommunications. Basically~ though,. he limited his com- rne?ts to t~e area of budgeting, which begms each fall with a canvassing of the various areas and a determination of program plans. ~E:' then continued, discussing tmtlon costs and how they are Schick Explains Faculty · Merit Pay System Continued from page 1 · · · · · · · · evaluations of ~.>rofessors play an important role: \Student evaluations of professors are used for contract renewal, tenure and promotion. In the evaluation of teaching, student input is a major ingredient.\ Schick outlined the dif- ferences between the non- tenure and tenure systems. He stated, \In a non-tenure system an institution hires a professor for fixed intervals under a contract system. The academic world believes that this does not encourage academic freedom and therefore the strongest kind of faculty.\ \Most colleges, including Union, use the tenure system. It has some weaknesses, but most academics see it is clearly superior. When a person has been at a college or university for six years their scholarship, \ ·teaching ability, personal contributions and other char·acteristics are reviewed. If he~she receives a favorable review, then he-she is given tenure, a permanent position in a department. Only under the most extenuating cir- cumstances, e.g., financial, would the faculty member be let go. This system encourages academic freedom and a productive faculty\. \The tenureable system at Union is unusual. In most in~ stitutions, there is a limit, for example, 60 percent, to the percentage of faculty in a department having tenure. Under this system, some out- standing faculty have to be let go. At Union,. in those depart- ments where the tenured ' positions are occupied, professors work under contract and then are reviewed precisely as would have been the case if a tenure position was available. If they receive a favorable review, they are deemed \tenureable\ and will be keot on. If someone in the depart- ment retires, the tenureable faculty member is again reviewed, and could be granted tenure if he or she has main· tained high standards\. Concluded Schick, \I don't· think Union is unique-other colleges do have a modified tenure system. However, Union is distinctive in that it requires superior performance in both teaching and scholarship. This helps to create maintain a faculty of whom we can all be proud.\ NYS Assembly Debates U.S.-Angolan Relations ByPAULSCHOP . In addition to being concerned with the affairs of New York State, the New York State Assembly is also concerned with affairs of state, in the broader sense of the term. Late last month, a . resolution praising Dr. Jonas Savimbi for his leadership of the UNITA guerilla forces, who have been fighting against both Cuban soldiers and indigenous Angola Communists since Angola received its independence from Portugal in 1975, was debated. The Assembly rejected this proposal. Angola is a relatively large country in southern Africa. It is currently ruled by a Communist government that is backed by the Soviet Union. Angola con- tains substantial oil reserves as well as other valuable natural resources. Its capital, Luanda, is an attractive site for a naval · base because of its excellent harbor and its strategic position astride the major trade routes between Europe and America and the Far East. The country also borders Namibia, which is currently being administered by South Africa, and which is vulnerable to attacks by SWAPO, or the South West Africa People's organization, who are attempting to establish a Communist government in Namibia. These forces are based in southern Angola. Resolution Introduced ByKuhl The resolution was introduced by Assmblyman Kuhl, an up- state Republican from Steuben County, just west of · Binghamton. In addition to praising Savimbi, the resolution . also called upon the Assembly, the Congress, and the American public t() support President Reagan's initiative in sup- porting Dr. Savimbi's activities in Angola. A resolution passed . · by the Assembly is not a law. · Instead, it is a formal declaration of the will of a . majority of the Assemblymen to · honor a person, an event, or an idea. Usually they are non- controversial and involve a member's desire to have a prominent constituent officially recognized for a notable achievement. In this case, the resolution was very con- troversial, and it therefore failed to win a majority. April17 Phonathon..-HHLL, 5 p.m.-10 p.m. Frank Iogna Piano Recital-Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Cabaret-OCDR, 9p.m.-1 a.m. ~~ April18 April19 ~~ ~~ April20 ~ April21 ~~e~ April22 April23 Late Nite Bites-HHDR, 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. Film: Bil'dy-SS016, 7:30, 10 p.m. \Hildreth Hines & Hancock at the Rathskellar\ 10 p.itl.-1 a.m. 21 Club-HHLL, 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Under 21 Club-HHDR, 9 p.m.·2 a.m. MCAT's Film: Birdy-SS016, 7:3(), lOp.m. Candlelight Dinner-HHDR, 5 p.m.~7 p.m. 21 Club-HHLL, 9 p;m.-Z a.m. Under 21 Club-HHDR, 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Film: Birdy-SS016, 7:30,10p.m. . Late Nite Bites-miDR, 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. IEF-Humanities Lounge, 12:30p.m. Cafe-HHLL, 9 p.m.-12 a.m. \AIDS\ -HHLL, 7 p.m. Filin: MagnumForce--SS016, 7:30,10 p.m. 21 CLub-HHLL; 9 p.m.-2a.m. Under 21 Club-HHDR, 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Minerva Hour with Richard Alba-88016, 11:30 a.m. Unionairs-Melil()rial Chapel, 12 p.m. - Film: The DaytheEarth.Stood Still *FREE. -88016,7,9, 11 p.m. Concert Committee-Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m.. . Cafe-HHLL, 9p.m.-12a.m. deci4ed upon. ''The fi·rst question we ask .is: Is it reasonable?\ said Hauser, and · then went on to explain that it is necessary to look at what the . other colleges are charging, . making an analogy to industry and the market ;place. He continued by explaining thaJ; the cost of each ·Of our · educations is only two thirds covered by our tuition,. the rest coming from outside sources. . He finished by elaborating on the various places that the tuition dollar · goes, such as · supplies expenses, insurance, financial aid, compensation, etc. social act. Course load reduction was addres11ed several times. Lee Ann Schmidt, a reporter for Concordiensis·, quoted some figures, ~aying that the course load having been reduced by some 155 courses, we would need 26 new professors to cover the gap left by these. She added, however, that there were plans to hire only 9. DJ Andrea responded to tbis by saying that over the next few years ·9 to 11 faculty m,emberS will be hired to adjust the course load, hut . that they will not be replaced . one· for one. In response to a similar ''In some matters what you say will be heard but not necessarily heeded - sometimes we do actually know better.'' - --Tidmarch L .. Professo~ .~idmarch, Faculty 'Trustee, fmtshed the formal statements with a short one of his own. He spoke of \wearing two hats,\ that of faculty and that of trustee, and called himself a \constructive ·kib- bitzer.\ He talked about the • .variety of changes that have taken place at Union over the past 16 years that he has been here, and believes that it is a much better place overalL He urged the college -community to see itself as such, statingthat he would ''hate to see this degenerate- into a case of us · versus them,\ and that he hopes · that the current panel discussion would be a beginning towards productive and . amicable solutions .found as a community. He ended by. ad- . dressing the sentiment that what students say is not heeded · by the administration by ad- . mitting, ''In some matters what you say will be heard but not necessarily heeded-sometimes we do actually know better,'' -explaining that the faculty and Administration devote their careers to the education field. At this point the discussion was opened up for questions from the audience. There was a varied range of issues ad-. dressed. Most often the com- ments were responses to the topics brought up in the formal statements. Jeff Lipsitz evoked a round of applause as he stood up and spoke about the problem of construction coupled with the new social policies on campus, ending With the simple question \Where are we supposed to go?\ Morris admitted that \when. we needed it most, New ·York State policy hit us the hardest,\ but went on to say that the \way in which Union College students tended to socialize Will not come back until the law is changed\ and that we have to find other ways to socialize, ways in which · alcohol is not the center of the question of why these replacements were not provided for before the reduction occurred, Morris stated that it is a phased reduction and that not all departments have actually reduced the load as much as will be in the future. He added that this is a transition and that \I don't think this term is nearly as bad as last term.\ On questions about the response to student input, or lack thereof, D'Andrea cited the student representation found on many committees, and ad- dressed the issue of a lack of knowledge on the part of the student council as to the avenues that are open to them to .increase their input and ef- fectiveness. Morris added that allowing final decisions to be made by students who have not been privy · to the same in·· formation as administrators simply can't work, and ended by saying \We're not trying to ruin Union.\ Tidmarch remarked upon the resurgence of interest in the running of the college as a cycle that we are just beginning after a long period of apaghy, and stated that this could be ''a mutual learning exercise,\ where we learn how to talk to one another again about these kinds of issues. other questions focused upon the matter of divestment, the budget surplus, the lack of minority students and facUlty and other topics. The student input was lively and informed, and the discussion had to be ended at 9:30, not because of a lack of interest, but because time was up despite evidence that there were still many issues the students wished to address, · Turnout was impressive, and proved that students are in- terested in continuing to play a role in the major issues facing their college. Professor Phaup ij:ospitalized ChabTnan of the Econonrlcs Department Professor Peter · Prosper was given the un .. pleasant. task this week of in- forming students enrolled in Economics 141, Monetary Economics, that their course has been cancelled for the remainder of the term because · the professor, Dwight Phaup, suffered a heart attack last week. Admitted to· Ellis hospital last Tuesday, Phaup is un- dergoing tests and treatment.· Arrangements have been made for students to be ad- mitted to other courses and Phaup's advisees have been assigned temporary advisors. Prosper indicated that an at- tempt was made to find a replacement instructor for the course, but since the subject was in ~n area of Phaup's specialty, it was not possible to do so. Recently named Chauncy H. Winters Professor of Economic Thought, Phaup has been with Union for close to 15 years. He will return to his teaching duties for the fall term. Concordlensis and the Union community wJsh Professor Pbaup a speedy recovery and anxiously await bJs return to campus. I' I .

~ : 1·. CONCORDlllNSlS; Apri/17, 1986 8eeman Oarifies Library Concerns Concordiensis Stu:dy Compares Union to Other ''Upstate Seven'' Editor's Note: Ill recent weeks · a growing colltroversy has · evolved over the library ' facllities at UD.ion. To clarify ' some o-f the issues, Con- cordiensis colilmlssioned the follo:wffig study, Concordiensis wishes to acknowledge the help of VIce-President D'Andrea in . providing information and, of · ,course, Professor Ann See:ntall, . Director of Scltaffer I.Jbrar37,. · for her participation. By NICK PICCIRILLO Schaffer Library has been a major subject of debate recently with the editorial pages of Coneordiensis as the main battlegmund. Professor Ann Seemann, the current library director, was in,- ·• terviewed and responded to the · criticism, which centers around the inability t() do · research, inadequate facilities, outdated inventory, an~ SCJmetimes the environment a11d short hours. Many students have argued that involved research papers · require trips to ()ther libraries. Comments sucli as \I do all my research in Albany•• or \I find it virtually impossible to do research here~' have been typical of readers. Seemann feels this claim nas been exacerbated by the senior thesis. \An undergraduate library can not serve the entire needs for a high level paper such as this. .People can't ex- pect to do it aU in one library. Even major university research libraries cannot and do not acquire everything.\ Vice .. President D'Andrea agreed · with· Seemann and elaborated by suggesting that regional sharing· must· take place bet- ween libraries in close p;roxin)ity. \If Albany State or Schenectady County· libraries are very strong fu an area we should work to develop others. The reverse also takes place.\ Seemann and D'Andrea added that many SUNY A students have come to Scbaffer Library to do research complaining that their library doesn't have what they need. Another wide-spread claim is that the books in Schaffer Library are 'ancient'. \The 'books seem to be outdated, which makes it difficult to research on contemporary topics,'' was one comment reqeiv_ed in a. questionnaire. \We spend oW' entire budget s.. Ql .c ::J s.. (.!) Ql > 10 0 >- .0 .s 0 .r: 0. and we don't buy old books with it,'' Seemann said. qSome older books that aren't used we do choose to withdraw., b1.1t use is only a partial measure for keeping or withchawing titles. For example, , tbe works of Freud .in German are seldom used; however we would never discard them.'' D'Andrea speculated that if a few colleges could agree on a common storage . facility, books which are used infrequentlY could be stored there and . easily retrieved if needed. This has been suggested and worked .on. Seeman was also asked why many recent books on current and everchanging topics such as AIDS or Cancer Research aren't available in Schaffer Library. Only a few books on these topics are listed in the card catalog .. \Are there any books on AIDS published?\ Seeman asks. ''You won't find recent books on caneet . research and · 'AIDS. Breakthroughs will appear in journals, not in books right away.\ library personnel for reference and bibliogFaphy, .as well as ill subject arEaS. Once each department has spent their own budget, they can recommend bo()ks to be purchased it any library fllDdS remain. Many books purcbased are selected on the basis ofbook reviews first to insure. it is likely to be used. Periodical subscriptions are also funded' directly, but here, too, the faclll.ty and depart- ments can and do request the periodicals. \'I don't ever recall a request .for ·a periodical or book since 1983 being denied,\ Seemann claims. \Book collectiQn Js. well developed around here. Most faculty are pleased.\ Seema:nn invites students to make ;requests for purchases alSo since they're the ones complaining not the faculty. In order to ascertain whether our library- is fulfUling the students' nEeds to the best extent possible an investigative review wa::~ done. The following resources w-ere used: Compal\ison of Libl\ary Statistics for seve11 Upstate Colleges Figures for 1984-85 · eud,e·tm (~ of Budge~} !l•tudeRthl 520 Bucknell 1,6 6, Boo.ks Pl!riodlc•h I of E.G. T9.5I 15.!is U% 4.3S 5.SS 4.7% 4.3S 4.6S Co-1 gate I, 300 ,DOO 16.2% 17.91 . 494 797 21.71(y) 20.01(~) Ha•llton 1,294,222 L~·hvette 1,17D,DOO 17.9% 16.01 542 • 477 432 396\ 383 Un 1 on 1,074 1 842 13.91 31.01: St. Lawrence 1,057,354 23.61 19.81 Sk1 dmore 83-I ,962* 18. 7-S* IO.OS* IIA 4.U Hobnrt 669,451 22.SS 13.5~ (Vols) Periodical Prof. HOUTS/ [XIII We..k Hold! ngs Subscrip. Staff( z) lleet Hours ANS Bucknell Colgate 453 ,ooo 2 ,2oa 11 of 21.6 104 112 Yes Ham1 Han 400 ,00.0 2,205 14 of 30.5 10-1 U2 No Lahvette 4 02 •. oon 2 ,1 oo 8.5 of 33 . .6 10 1. \5 NA Yes Ill!\ No Unlo~ 390,000 2,012 10 of ~4 .o 103.5 100.5 Yes 13 of Z7. 0 91 .5 St. lawrence 45 0, 9 55 2,066 Skidmore H1 ,2 50 2 ,108 aof22.0 105 126 Yes 124 · Hob~rt 312,930* 1,.07* . 225 ,000 1,589 8 of 26 • .0 107 No 116 (z)-Fu11 Time E~ulvalent . (y}-e-st1mated from 1983-84 report 8 of 23.0 :IO.fi NQ *-estimated %of E.G.- Porc~nt of Colleqe's educotlonol&Qen<>ral bLJdget ANS ·All Night Study Areq If any -of these problems concerning books and other holdings exist in Schaffer .Library it would be partly due to book collection, so it's im- portant to understand how it works at Union. Book collecting deals simply with what books we buy and wh~, and. the pur- pose of book collecting is to support the nndergraduate curriculum. The selection is done by both library and classroom faeulty. Each department is allocated a certain amount of money for books which can be spent as see fit. The remaining book ouc1get is spent directly by 1. Comrnllllication with seven other collegEs often referred to as the Upstate Seven, from which facts were gathered about their respective libraries. 2. A re!)(lct published in May 1983 by a library Subcouncil designated by the Academic Affairs Co11ncil. This subcouncil consisted of Union professors and was beaded by Professor Thurston. 3. The Library responSe to the Snbcouncil report. The data given by the Upstate Seven is sh()wn and compared below. The first figure shows the finan~es and the second shows staffing, hours, and holdings statistics. It is not clear whether the budget fig1.1res indicated include fringe benefits. Union College did not incl11de fringe benefits in its report, !)11t some of the other colleges may have. Also, the Schaffer library spending for books and J!eriodicals was not necessarily typical for last year. An emphasis was put on periodicals. In 1983-84 Schaffer · Library SIJent 23.5 percent of its budget for books and 22.3 percent for periodicals. By com11arison, Schaffer Library is about average in total budg~ and in dollars per student, but well above average in holdings .. However, between 1986-85 Union bas dropped from fourth to :fifth and the per- centage. E.G~ has dropped from 4.5 percent to 4.3 percent. · New compact shelv.ing hel\ped to alleviate shelving space problems in the periodicals-section. . The sttidy coniirms what the Library :Sul>council concluded three years ago about staffing. There is a high level of com• petence ~rnong library staff. Thirteen professionals gives Shaffer Library the second highest percentage of staff profession.als. It could con .. Page 3 Professor Ann Seeman, Director of Schaffer Library, comments on library facilities and services. ceivably be argued, however, that too many professionals · resUlts in too much money spent on staff, consequently limiting other parts of the budget. The .Subcouncil report did state at the time that Schaffer Library had fewer student assistants than any other Upstate Seven · Library. This raises the issue of professionals doing non· professional routine tasks. In the library response, which was signed by Seemann among others, the staff endorsed the need for more students, but made it clear that paraprofessional help would be preferred due to reliability and training. \We may need more clerical staff, but I do not feel we are overstaffed with professionals,'' said Seemann in the interview. Second, consider the statistics on hours. They reveal that Schaffer Library is open fewer hours than any other library among the Upstate Seven. On the average Schaffer Library is open 13 fewer hours per week and 17.5 fewer during exam week. This topic was examined further. What was found is that Schaffer Library extends its hours only on Saturday and Sunday during exam week: hours which the other colleges stay open throughout the semester. For the other libraryes, the extended hours are spread out. For example, during finals Colgate stays open 8 a.m. - 2 a.m. weekdays (Friday until 11 p.m.), Sat. 10 a.m. -11 p.m. and Sun. 12- 12. In another example. St. Lawrence's hours during finals are 8:30 a.m. - 2:30 a.m. all week. Union's hours, by com- parison, are 8:30-a.m. -11 p.m. weekdays and 9 a.m.- 11 p.m. on weekends. The Subcouncil report drew a similar conclusion on hours. The committee suggested where the regular semester hours could be extended and also suggested using student assistants to keep it open longer. In the library response the staff held that it was unclear whether the library would be used during the expanded hours and didn't act on the recom- mendation. \We've done a number of studies,'' Seemann said, \and extending the hours hasn't seemed warranted. We feel strongly that the library is our responsibility anytime it is open and students should not be running it ontheir own. Besides, we have had very few requests for extended hours. If we don't know a problem exists, we can't help it. If people tell us we need more holirs there ~s a very good chance we would act on it. Maybe this ts a need we have to address.'' · On the su9ject of collections the Subcouncil reported: 1. For a library the size of Union, the quality of the periodical collection is excellent. 2. The faculty did not indicate inadequacy in collections. 3. The impression was that · tile library's holdings in • sociology-anthropology and psychology were weak. The Subcouncil report also focused on the serious problem that exists with the en· vironment in the library. Two .areas were topics of examination: l. Climate, 2. Space. The report concluded that the library was too hot in winter, too cold in summer, and stuffy at all times. The professors on the committee .felt that these· conditions contribute to a more rapid deterioration of library material and student reluctance to use and study in the library. Indeed the climate is a problem of copsiderable proportion and no one seems to know what to do about it. \Several attempts have been made to solve the climate problem,\ explained Seemann. \The addition in 1974 left us with two systems which should work in balance with each other. They don't and it's frustrating.\ The Library Subcouncil also reported that the Schaffer Library was barely adequate at the time in space for study and shelving, butthe 597 seats in the library were adequate based on a seating capacity formula produced by the. Association of College and Reseach Libraries. The library response stated that additional shelving was needed. To compensate for the added volumes, compact shelving has been installed and more- compact shelving will be added this summer. In 1989 capacity for some collections will be reac)led, and expansion will become necessary. Seeman admitted that it will become more crowded until then, but \We are committed to ke.eping all study spaces.\ . It is also worth mentioning that in a similar statistical comparison between the Upstate Seven colleges done three years ago by the Library Subcouncil, the Union in- terlibrary loan was over- whelmingly the· most active. Seventy percent more volwnes were borrowed by Union students and faculty than through the second most active loan system. Furthermore, the number of volumes loaned out by Union was also impressive when compared to the other libraries. Seemann addressed short, medium, and long range plans for the library. The short range goal, she stated, is to put in more compact shelving in order to save space. The medium range goal is to install an automated circulation system. This means the card catalog will be replaced by computer terminals that will provide online access to the bibliographical information that now appears on catalog cards. Finally, a couple of years from now the library will be expanded. With the addition, a room will be allocated for current periodical reading. There, current issues of periodicals will be available to students ad faculty. \Our aim,\ said S~emrum, \is and will be to provide a pleasant place to sit ~d study.\

/ Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow, Alan D. Williams will be at Union. CON(ORDIENSJS, April17, 1986 . ~~·~·. -·- .. ,. __ -~~-- Woodrow Wilson Fellow To Visit Union G.P. Putnam Editor Alan Williams By JAMES McCORD Alan Williams, Vice President and Executive Editor of G:P~ Putnam's Sons, will be at Union from April 21st to April 25th as resident expert in the fields of professional writing, editir ;,, publishing, and book adver:dsing. All interested students, facl,llty, and .staff are en<:ouraged to attend the many different classroom and group sessions that he'll be leading. Since Mr. Williams received' hiS B.A. degree from Yale -in 1949 in political science, he has worked in publishing in a number of different positions. He served as advert-ising manager at McGraw-Hill and publicity manager at J.B. Lippincott before becoming New York editor of Little, Brown and Company. For the next nineteen years he worked for . Viking, then Viking- Penguin, as managing editor; editorial director, and editorial vice president. Two years ago he Dloved to Putnam's. · Having spent over thirty-five years in publishing, Alan Williams knows well . the dif- ference between the romantic view of the business as a leisurely life carried on in mahogany offices· and posh restaur~ts, anc;J the present- day rat race. In reference to the great editor of Hemingway and Fitzgerald, he says, \If Max- well Perkins were aro11nd today, he wouldn't have time to .be .Maxwell Perkins. ·He would not be able to sit at Scribner's and have ·wonderful authors turn up in the morning maii. He woUld be out grubbing with the r~st of us, 'cozening agents and . wondering how 01uch money to bid.\ Over the years Mr. Williams has worked with a wide raqge of well known a11thors, including Malcolm Cowley, Nadine Gordimer, Stephen King,' Iris Murdoch, and Frederick Forsyth, and during his visit he will be discussing some of the tribulations and elations .of the publisher-author · reiationship; other topics that are favorites of Mr. Williams' include \Finding and PubHshing Authors \' \What Editors Do \ . ' ' ''The Business of Book Publishing,'' and \The Paperback Revolution.\ As a Woodrow Wilson Visiting. Fellow, Mr. Williams is part of a pr~st~giotis, national program to help students prepare to be productive citizens in both the public and private spheres. For -Campus News Briefs- more than a decade, the program has striven to bring about closer relations between the academic and non- academic worlds, between campus and community, bet• ween academic theory and practical reality. Distinguished Visiting Fellows to Union over the past few years have in· eluded Jacqueline 'l'rescott, reporter for the WashiJtgton College to Sponsor Trip to Quebec City For those interested in im- mersing themselves in the French culture of North America, the Union College Office of Graduate and Con- tinuing Studies is offering a four-day excursion to Quebec City. The trip is scheduled for Thursday, April 24, through Sunday, April27. Departure will be from Union College's Wells House at 8 a.m. Thursday morning. On route to Quebec City, there is a stop in Montreal for lunch and touring in the old section of the city. The group will arrive in Quebec City in the early evening. Friday and Saturday will be spent touring the city and its environs. The schedule includes free time for browsing and some meals. As a preface to the trip, a slide lecture and introductory session will be given on Thur- sday, April 17, in the Music Room of Schaffer Library by Program Cootdfuator Margaret Lanoue, who has traveled ex- tensively in Quebec. Par- ticipants will be given guide books, maps, and the final itinerary. The cost of the tour is $295, which includes transportation, hotel, entrance fees, two din- ners, and one brunch. For further information, contact the Graduate and Continuing Studies Office at 1 Union Avenue, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 or call 371).6288. Psychology Dept. to Begin Unique Lecture Series The . Union College Psychology Department is beginning a lecture series that will feature faculty discussint their special areas of interest and research. The Faculty Speaks: A Lecture Series on New Developments In Psychology is coordinated by Seth Greenberg, associate professor and chainnan of the . Psychology Department. This term, the cotirse will include topics from. rapidly growing areas of psychology such as cognitive science and memory. The course will be presented on five Wednesdays, April 23- May21, from 9:30-11 a.m., with a different speaker each week. The lectures, to be presented in Hale House Lower Lounge, will be preceded by a continental breakfast from 9-9:30 a.m. and followed by a question and answer period. The first speaker in this program will be Hugh Foley, whose topic will be \Seeing is Deceiving: The Psychology of Visual ruusions.\ He will be followed by Suzanne Benack, speaking on \What Do Babies Know?: Cognitive Development in the First Year of Life\; Seth Greenberg, speaking on \Why We Forget: Understanding Basic Memory Concepts\; Rudy Nydegger, speaking on \Development of the Concept of Death in Children\; and Bar- bara Fletcher, speaking on \Stress: How to Handle It.\ The cost of the series is $35, although persons may register for single sessions at a cost of $7.50 per lectW\e. To register, contact the Graduate and Continuing Studies Office at 1 Union Avenue, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 or call37~288. Financial Aid Office Announces 3 Scholarships for '86 School Year DIGNITY-Region II an- nounced the implementation of the Bob Weisskopf Memorial Scholarship in memory of Mr. Weisskopf a long-time member of Dignity, an association of gay and lesbian Catholics and their friends. Two $500 scholarships will be awarded annually to assist any full-time un- dergraduate student who is a legal resident of New York or New Jersey in pursuit of an education at an accredited institution of higher learning, professional ~ school, or seminary. The deadline for application for the 1986 awards is Jane». Please write: DIGNITY- Region .·n, The Scholarship Committee, P.O. Box 621 P Bayshore, NY 11108. The Jewish Federation of Greater Schenectady an- nounces the Paltl M. Gans Scholarship to help. \Jewish candidates planning on pur- suing studies in any Jewish field.\ The amDunt of the scholarship is up to $1,50Q for one academic year and is available to 1) students enrolled in programs leading to a graduate degree in the Jewish Communal field, 2) students pursuing programs that lead to certification such as Day School te~cher or Youth Director, and 3) students enroDed in an un- dergraduate progra01 and about to enter their junior year who show direction and intent to enter the Jewish Connnunal field and be plann~g to major in Jewish Studies. Applicants for the Gans Scholarship must be residents of the area ser- viced by this Federation. For Dlore information call the Jewish Federation at (518) 393- 1136 or write: Jewish Federation of Greater Schenectady, 2565 Balltown Rd., Schenectady, NY 12309. Deadline is April 27; 198fL The National Italian American Foundation an- nounces its anmtal scholarship competition for lt86. There are six undergraduate and three graduate scholarships available for a variety of stlldies. Please stop in to . the Financial Aid Office if you are interested in m()re information about this program. Application deadline for most scholarships is .early· May. Admissions Office to Host High School Counselors Approximately 55 eastern independent school college counselors will participate in a Counselors-On~Campus pro- gram sponsored jointly by Union, Skidmore and RPI April 20-22. The program will open .with a dinner Sunday night at the Gideon Putnam Hotel in Saratoga Springs. The coun- selors will then. 11 spend the .next two days attending informal sessions Oil• au three eampUSes. The program is designed to acquaint the counselors with curricular offerings, campus facilities, and student life at . each institution. The counselors will be at Union on Monday morn,ing, April21. Their visit will include a breakfast with former students,· a student panel, tour and a reception-luncheon with faculty. The group will then travel to RPI for an afternoon program, With final sessions-· scheduled for April 22 at Skidmore. \ Post; Dr. Jack W. Cole, Professor of Surgery at Yale University School of Medicine; and Arlin Adams, Judge, U.S. Court of Appeals. James McCord is Professor o.f English. AssoCiate William's Schedule for the Week Alan Williams will be the guest speaker in the following classes and group gatherings, to which all are cordially invited: April 21st: 4:00 Talk/discussion on ''What Editors Do\ with students and staff at the Career Development Center · April Z2nd: 1:30 Talk/discussion in Prof. Jordan Smith's writing class . (held in Humanities classroom 113) on \Finding and. Publishing Writers\ _ . 7:00 Talk/discussion with members- on the Idol student arts and literary magazine in the Humanities lounge - April 23rd: 10:00 Talk/ discussion in Bailey Hall 307 with members of the department of Institute of Administration and . Management on ''The Economics of Trade Book Publishing\ 4:00 Talk/discussion with staff of the Writing Center on \How Writers Work'' and ''How to Avoid Poor Writing\ in HU lounge~ 2nd floor of the Hwnanities building Aprn· 24th: 1:30 Talk/discussion in Prof. Jordan Smith's class (Humanities classroom113) on \How to Land a Job in Publishing\ 4:00 Talk/discussion with members of Con~ cordiensis on \What to E~t in the Profession of Publishing'' in the Humaruties lounge, 2nd floor of . the Humanities building . Aprll 25th: 10:30 TalkldiscUSSion in Prof. Shelton Schinidt's class (Social Science classroom 113) on \Publisbing as a Business\

/ CONCORDiENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 PageS Social Committee 1st c.amp Union Meeting The IDOL presents: Today at 9 p .. m. Kit HATHAWAY and Social Sciences Building Bring New Ideas!! Jordan SMITH (Part II) also with student readings · , If you can't attend ·contact lra-6912; Kim-6922 Tonight, 7:30 p.m .. -Human.ities Loung·e ALL ARE WELCOMEI The foll,owlng Terms Abroad· Programs will have orientatio,n sessions next week: The '\Vriting Center ·France Mo.nday, April 21; 4:30 h1 HU 014 Bath & York . is interviewing tutors for next year. Applications at the- Writing Center or Humanities 210. Tuesday, April 22; 4:30 in HU 019 ·China (See This Week's 'iLetters\ column) .,Wednesday, April 23; 4:30 in HU 113 GRADUATES CALL 1-800-457-4065 FOR 400A PRE-APPRO· D CREDIT ONA . ..FORD It's Easy To Qualify For $400 from Ford Motor Cotnpany • You must receive at least a bachelor's degree or a state RN license · between October 1, 1985 and September 30,. 1986. • And don't forget ... you - must .receive at least a . bachelor's degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and Sep .. tember 30, 1986. These Vehicles Are Included In The Plan Ford: Escot:t, Escort EXP, For Pre .. ~pproved Credit from Ford Credit • You must have verifi .. able employment that begins within 120 days of your ,qualifying vehi .. . · · Tempq, Mustang, Thunderbird Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri, Cougar · cle purchase ·at a salary sufficient to cover ordi- nary U~ing expenses and your vehicle payment. • Your credit record, if you have one, must indi.· · cate payment made as agreed. Ford Truck: Aerostar, · _ Bronco II, Ranger, F-150 & F-250 You are eligible for $400 even if you don't finance your purchase. Use it toward your down pay .. ment or get a check from Ford after the purchase or lease. The amount of your pre- approved credit is deter .. mined by the qualified · vehicle you buy.· If a '(ehicle is not in dealer stock, it must be ordered by June t, 1986. Delivery of all vehicles must be taken by August 31, 1986. For complete details on how to get your $400 · plus pre .. approved credit, · · ca.ll the toU .. free number today. 1-800-4574065 Concordie nsis wishes to extend a special thanks to Kelly Larkin, Jan Gray and Mrs. Marra for an their help in making the \State of the · Union\ evening a success. ~~'t DAMBROSE e~ CLEANERS 151\1 VAN VRANKE:M AVE •• SCHENECTADY. NY !230B (1516) 374-!5f93 Complete F a£ric Core Services EST. Ullll? Summer Fall Spring · WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS OXFORD su,~mfR , . - - - . . . I Full Academl~ Years In • Oxford University • L.S.Ee • St. Andrews, Scotland I u.S. credits will be transferred · through Hampden-Sydney 1 C allege, founded in Virgiaia by James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option. The Director of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad(inSrftain) is the At Hon: The lord Beloff, D.Litt. (Oxon.), F~llow ol tile British Academy, Professor Emeritus ' of Government and Fellow of All Souls, .oXford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLE I(. J.D .• Admissions DirectorCOEA/ WISC, Rm 53, 158W. 81 St. NY,NY, 10024. (212·724•0804/724-0136). (EO/AA) ,___.......__ _______ _..

Page6 • 1. ,_ (1) .Q :::l ,_ 0 'l> > ro 0 FEATURES >· .Q 0 0 !: a. CONCORDIENSIS,A~Hl7,1~6 u = Union Physicists Take Rochester Spring has sprung finally at Union! This past Saturday the University of Rochester hosted the Sixth Ann1,1al Rochester Symposium for Physics Students, an event partially sponsored by the national Society of Physics Students. This year the symposium was attended by 14 schools mainly from the New York area, but including Canada as well (UWO). Union's chapter of the SPS was well represented by 8 students (Louis Schick, Alan DeSalvio, John Hoffman, Sing- Yun Lee, John Betreen, Douglas McClennen, Craig Fowler, Lloyd Mailiner), 3 ·of whom made presentations; 2 faculty members (Professors Seyfollah Maleki and Lazlo Baksay) and a supporting fan (Marcsi Baksay). The motley crew of Union physicists con- sisted of all levels from fresh- men to graduates out to demonstrate tbat Union can outshine the rest, and enjoy themselves doing so. Silicon.\ The major question left in people':; mind was where are an those kittens without ea~s. After a large and tasty (and welcomed) lunch both senior Douglas McCiennen and graduate Lloyd Maliner ex- plained their ·senior research projects. Douglas gave an in- tersting talk titled \Computer Study of a Theoretical Model for H:ydrogen Diffusion in Silicon\ in which he discussed the problems of \dangling bonds\ and other traps in amorphous silicon that are obstructing increased efficiency in items such as solar cells. Lloyd gave a colorful presentation on the topic that interests most everyone, \Educating the Public in Physics,~' that dealt with the recent addition of in .. teractive exhibits to the Schenectady Museum. It was generally agreed that the Union talks were among the better presentations of the day. Following the symposim the Union gang toured the research facilities of UR (and were impressed) before starting the four hour drive home. The symposium, besides being a eood time and chance to get away. provides an excellent opportunity for students to share their research in a manner similar to a professional seminar.setting, as well as see what students from other schools are doing. Welcome Spring! The physicists spent the night in a luxury hotel not far from U. OR R. after enjoying an exotic Hungarian meal at a local restaurant. Unionite Craig Fowler, recently graduated but still dedicated, started off the day of events with a clear · presentation of his research on Union's Van de Graaff particle accelerator in the relatively new field of ion beam mixins titled ''Ion Beam Mixing in By CATHY MARKES Can it really be true-has Spring actually returned to Schenectady. Well, even though so far it's been on a biaweekly basis, the surest signs are still here. It all started with the first frisbees being tossed around en West Beach. Then the makeshift softball games (knock on everyone's doors until you have enough people v_vith gloves to play). And this morning I looked outside to find some brave individual driving a golf ball toward the vicinity of my window. It must be spring! A lot of people I know have managed to come out of hibernation in the last two weeks. You know the type: they haven't gone outside their off- campus apartments for ten weeks now and are just beginning to realize that it's actually Spring Term. So now they've taken up permanent residence out on Library Plaza. Warm cement never felt so good! The population of this place seems to have quadrupled overnight. All of a sudden, it's a social event to be outside. People have time to stop and talk, to walk somewhere nor- mally out of the way. For some, jogging or biking becomes a daily ritual, While others find lying on the (not quite) green grass to be a serious pastime. So the sun brings out the best in most people's state of minds. But what about when it gets dark? These have had to be the noisiest nights around here since fall. I've seen more people walking around at all hours of the night than I saw during the daytime last term. And for entertainment, there's all the soon-to-be-initiated pledges serenading various ends of campus every night now. But there aren't even any leaves on the trees yet! Luckily, it hasn't been quite warm enough for anyone to really need an afternoon of shade yet. I still can't wait for those hot days to arrive-to escape this stuffy dim room in ex:change for leaning up against that tall shady oak or maple. After all, have you met anyone who didn't enjoy relaxing in the shade? By now, most of us clearly realize that Union takes on a new face in the spring-the slushy sidwalks, bitter winds, numb fingers, nonexistent parties and manic depression Wienutuu' s aileuners & Wailors Jlltb. NOW 2 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU OJ i em ann' n 1714 UNION STREET PHONE 374-6647 D'Ar jay's 1621 UNION STREET PHO~'E 393-0917 Specializing in Suede & Leather Cleaning Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome SUMMER POSITIONS AVAILABLE: Top NYS Co-Ed Sleepaway Camp has openings for General Counse:lors and all specialties. Excellent sa'lary. Minimum age: 19. ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING: Saturday, April19, 1986 11 a.m. to 2 p . m . Soc. Sci. Bldg. Rm. 115 Union College campus Na-Sho-Pa Bloomingburg, N.Y. have all begun to drift into our past. But for all of you who haven't quite emerged from your Winter Term cocoon yet: step outside and take in some sun! Toss your ski jacket into the deep, dark corner of your closet and break out the beach towel. You'll be amazed at your new outlook on life. PHONES: 372-7270 370-3735 HOME STYLE PIZZA ,..-EATUAING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT COJIIt. UNION STREET a VAN ANT'VV!:RP RO. 5CHENECTAOY. N. Y. This corning Monday, residents in the State of Massachusetts will cel~brate Patriot's Day. Thi_s celebration is to commemorate the birthplace of American Liberty where 211 years ago on Apr• I 191 1775 the Revolutionary War began here in Lexington, Massachusetts with the \Shot heard round the World.\ ...... . .... ~ .. - .... . ~. it; u ~ E i= > .c B .!: c

··'' ' -~ ... ' ~ .;~' CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 Adam and Rob~s. World NeWs Report By ADAM EMERSON and ROB BLE:WER Just when you thought it was safe to go back to Libya, Moammar Qaddafi has out- done himself again. In his latest act -of lunacy, he's- placed as many as 1,300 American and foreigners at military bases and oil fields to prevent U.S. retaliations on these sites. As .a counterstroke, Presid.ent Reagan has loaded B-52 cargo bays with Libyan Nationals and is threatening to drop them on these designated targets. control car plowed into a group of people attending the annual Strawberry Festival jn Pon- chatoqla, Louisiana. When we caught up with the culprit later after we partook in some strawberry games, he bitterly replied, \I've disliked these fruit festi:vals ever since I got a watermelon pit in my - last week.'' · Page7 FEATURES In a related story, Qaddafi's cousin, Qaddaf Adam is trying to keep terrorism in the faiQil.y. Inspired by his cousin's efforts, Adam now heads a terrorist agency in .Libya that serves as a liaison for numerous other terrorist groups. After a rec.ent surprise visit to the agency by Qaddafi's mom, Adam sent her happily on to her first terrorist mission, planting a grenade ina watermelon stand. It was reported no one was seriously injured, but a bystander too close to the explosion was hit with a flying pit in a place we can't mention here.· Terrorist of the week is Mrs. Qaddafi for a pseudo successful first mission and for raising as fine a boy as Moammar. Unfortunately, this week was · .marred by more tampering on the food scene. Loaves of rye bread imported from the · Netherlands were found to have slivers · of glass inside them. Many . customers are dissatisfied with glass in their bread, claiming it gets stuck in their dentures. However, others have found it to be a pleasant dietary replacement for . caraway seeds~ Sexuality In Colleg~ . ..Y !:~.s _ By MARJORIE HOFFER learned something and one were- ~iven, SarFel had little student stated that \it answered time to elaborate on all, so she a lot of questions.'' continned her talk on the first, Tragedy has recently hit Italy's leading industry. Last week bOttles of tainted table wine led to the death of at least , twenty Europeans. Many store · owners have removed cases from their shelves, others have simply put it on sale. Tainted wine that made it to the U.S. is being sent as a peace offering to Qaddafi's house in Libya. Meanwhile, back at the- ranch, after milking the cows, Aunt Martha returned to the · kitchen with a milk moustache. On the homefront, an out-of- There are two additional leaks this week at General Electric's \Waterford plant. It seems residents defeated their own purpose · in its act of • terrorism last week which · resulted in a group of groggy and hungry employees. For- tunately, good use was made of Joe's uneaten pimento loaf as it soaked up most of the chemical leak. As you know, income tax returns were due Tuesday. We .interviewed a few people on reasons why they were filing late. Oscar Mayer said, \Well I don't earn much anyway and I couldn't find the time.\ Betty Crocker said, \It's the first time I've filed and I really don't know how.\ Bazooka Joe said, \I sent in 100 comics so they'd do it for me.'r· Well enough babbling for now. We.'ve got a corned beef on rye · waiting in the kitchen, Good . eatin' to you and remember this: Buy do._mestic! Support your country and stay healthy at the same time. In conjunction with Women's Week and the series on sex and intimacy ,the fourth lecture was presented by Lorna .Sarrel on \Sexual~ty in the College Year.\ Ms. Sarrel is a graduate of Mt. Holyoke College, and a trained sex therapist. She has written many articles for leading women's ·magazines, along with some books'' and serves as the Co-director of the Yale Sex Counseling Clinic. Thus, with such accessibility to College Students the talk was quite enlightening when it touched upon issues that af- fected sexuality and the college student specifically. The lecture was given in a room quite unsuited for such a topic, as confirmed by Ms. Sarrel herself. Hale House dining room was sparsely at- tended, and· the audience sat at various tables, with their elbows resting . on dirty tablecloths. Nonetheless, many of the students spoken to after the lecture felt that they had Immediate-Past Governor Jeffrey Chess and Immediate-Past President Andrew Casciano receiving Home Club of Governor Barner. Circle K Convention The 24th annuai New York each did a fine job cam- District Circle K Convention paigning, caucusing, and was held April 4th tbrough 6th representing Union College. at the Ramada Inn in The club is proud of their ef .. Schenectady. The Union College forts. Congratulations . to Circle K Club was the con- another club member, Gwen vention's host and a major Wallace, for her appointment as influence at the convention. the Mohawk District Lieutenant Union won the total Governor. In a recent Club achievement award for the 85416 meeting next year's officers hear in the Gold Division under were elected. They are: the leadersJ:lip of immediate David Berry-President, president Andrew Casciano who Robert Danziger-:ViceePre- was a recipient of . ·a sident, Gayle Diamond- distinguished president's .Secretary, Marc Friedman- award. Treasurer, and Tim Mical-- Two Union students-Andrew Editor, Casciano and Peter Rabovsky- At this time the Union College ran for Administrative Circle K Club would like to Secretary and Distdet elq>ress their gratification for Governor respectively. the outstanding efforts of our Although neither won their · immedi~te · past Governor 89ught · after positions, they Jeffrey Chess who at the con· vention's close stepped down as New York District Governor after contributing four dedicated years to both the Union College Circle K Club and to the New York Di$trict Circle K. There are meetings every Wednesday night at7 :00 p.m. in SS110. If you are interested in finding out what Circle K. is all about come to a meeting. New members are welcome. NEW YORK DISTRICT CIRCLE k tiiTERIIATIOIIAL , . 24th Annual Conveation Ramada Inn, Scheneefady April .U, 1986 Naturally, due to the intimacy secorul and sixth steps. of the subject matter, it is a Ba.Sically, she stated that our rarely dj,scussed topic on such early experiences have a an open basis-therefore many profoiLlld impact on the rest of people do have questions about our lives. She also found that sex. In fact, as Ms. Sarrel noted, many students have a difficult 3-4 of all married couples have time overcoming the guilt in- sexual problems. Most volv~d with a sexual students, she said, were con- relati!Jnship. Concerning fused because they thought it the first intercourse, sarrel was an easy issue and were quotecl many surveys stating surprised when they found it to male and femaleopinions.These be confusing. illustrated a commonly Although sex is a complex developmental process, the most important steps take place between now (one's college years), and their early 20's. Sarrel listed 10 steps that we experience~ the first realizing your own body as an adult body: the second overcoming inhibitions: the third, gradually separating the emotional ties from parents: the fourth, recognizing what is sexually pleasing and displeasing and communicating this. Fifthly we must deal with conflict and confusion about sexual ideas with members of the same sex in our homophobic society. The sixth stage concerns first in- tercourse: the seventh developing a rich sexual life: the eighth growing awareness as a sexual person: the ninth the ability to be responsible, such as dealing with birth control. Finally, the last step involves increasing ability to experience belie:ved concept that women hav~ a more difficult time dealin~ with first intercourse than men do. Most females said they experienced guilt fe.elings and an:xiety while males felt more J)leased and excited. Through various anecdotes that Sarrel shared with the audiEnee concerning sessions with Yale students, she pointed out that many females and males have a difficult time cornl!tg to grips with their sex11ality. Due to the fact that society is ·becoming more ac- ceptln.g of a decreasing sexual mor~Uty this field ·of College Se:xuality poses a lot of new questtons and conflicts. As the yeat:\s continue, through the work -of Ms. Sarrel and others, perhaps a new sexual philosophy will be defined. It appears now that the reality of confttSion is being accepted. Sarrel's message seemed to be that it is more normal to feel abn()rtnalabout sex. Come One, Come. A/I Improvisation Workshop! Saturday Aprill9, 10 A.M.-6 P.M. -FREE-. Sign Up In The Nott

l PageS CONCOii,DIEN$/S,,Apri/17, 1986 FEATURES Students Go To Trial Ul .s: .0 .0 0 ~ C]) > C]) .... V) >- .0 0 ..... 0 ..t:: c. / ;: ~; if \ 1 ~ By JIM SCHWARTZ (CPS ).Some time this week, the University of Massachusetts at lunherst is due to deCide how to punish 18 students who staged a sit-in when an administrator unilaterally decided to . seize control of most student fees. E,fhes MaAgray reads .. from play list of'his show \Radio Rhythm.\ And in coming weeks; m~re than 100 Cornell students Will face trespassing charges connected to a fall anti- apartheid demonstration. North Carolina State students will find their dorms shut down to members of the opposite sex. Underage Syracuse students~ meanwhile, may no longel\ be allowed even to be at a party .at which people age 21 and older are drinking alcohol. -W .R. U. C. Revitalizes Student freedoms on those and dozens of other campuses across the nation, in other words, seem to be fading fast. By LEE .ANN SCHMIDT Within the past year Union College has experienced quite a few dramatic changes; one of which involves a resurgence of student activity. Following this spirit of vitality and im- provement, W.R.U.C. has begun its own metamorphasis. W.R.U.C. has returned to the airwaves with a new executive board and a full schedule which features prograrnnni11g fr~nn 8 a.m. - 2 a.m. \We feature outstanding new music- invigoratipg 'toones' from the world's most innovating and dynamic musicians.\ (Conrad Tatge, Music Director). Recently W.R.U.C. has im- plemented several interesting special programming features. These include: the \Bottom Line\; a call in show on Sun- days from 9:00-9:45 p.m., and a guest DJ program on Sundays from 8-9 p.m. Their first g11est DJ program, with Chris O'Donnel and Bob Stennard was a great success. In addition to these new programs, W.R.U.C. has made a considerable effort to improve their existing special progranuning features. Few people realize the extent and diversity of these programs. On Wednesday nights they play the top 8.97 songs of the week. \The· perfect opportunity to exp<>se yourself to and challenge yourself with the virtues of new music.\ (John Morgan, Promotions Manager) This term W. R. U. C. also pl.ans Homecoming '86 All students interested in helping with Homecoming Weekend are invited to attend the Homecoming Meeting 4:30p.m. Social Sciences Bldg. Room 016 · For more information contact Judy Dimauro- (67 43) or TaJ!lmY Thomas· \giveawaysn of J.B. 's Theatre tickets, and the Violent Fem- mes album, \Blind Leading the Naked.\ Special programming features also include the Sports Line and informative daily news broadcasts at 3 and 9. W.R. U.C. was the first station in the country, and since that beginning those involved in our radio station have continually attempted to improve them- selves. The new ideas in progranuning features, com- bined with an improvement in old concepts, and a dynamic schedule of music reflects the rebirth of innovative ideas and energy all over Union College. For more information on W.R.u.c. see page 14. And the trend, which began with, a massive, nationwide crackdown on fraternity and sorority activities in the fan. · promises to accelerate as the school year wears on, observers say. \I am worried that some of the 'in loco parentis' of the mid· sixties and before may be coming back,\ laments Cecilia Ham of the United States Student AssoCiation (USSA), a student lobby group based in Washington, D.C. \In loco parentis\-meaning . a college has aU the legal obligations \in the place of tile parent\ while a student attends the school-was the rationale for strict campus control of Comi.ng Soon: International Weekend! Sponsored by the International Student Union ( ISU) Friday April 25th, 7:00P.M. 3rd Floor Old Chapel A Series of short talks on different countries of the world, followed by Discussions. Saturday April 26th 7:30P.M. Old_Chapel Cabaret: including different Dances, Songs, - Costumes, Foods ... from different countries. (There Will be no charge) Introducing •• ., GBake~ . Tea<Room · Candy• Gifts GounnetSpecialties 518· 393· 5592 A CtJuntr}' Frenr:ll Gourmet FtHJtl, Condy and Gift Store· • • Featuring: Snacks, 10% discount. Baked Goods, Natural 90 soda for . including a birthday cake for Someone Special Gourmet Piz;r:as . 0 . 111011 • ._ .. · _,. ........... _... . .. Sausage:bread ....,....., · dips. Stvdlnb fbtt l{at .is endlt$$ student l:!etuwior up through the mid-sixties. Schools, of course, carefully controlled all aspects of students' social and sexual lives by regulating dorm hours, visiting procedures, drinking, on-campus entertainment, driving, political group ac• tivities and even student dress~ While the system was broken by student upheaval in the sixties, there's evidence ad- ministrators' concern for being held legally liable for students' misbehavior is helping revive at least parts of it this year. . \There is no indication of ill will on part of administrators; It's really a crackdown on administrators, u ct:mtends a National Association of College and University Attorneys (NACUA) official, who·asked to remain anonymous. ''Third-partx liability lawsuits are one of the hottest topics on campus,'' adds D. Parker Young, a University of Georgia professor and legal affairs lecturer. _ \Insurance companies- can influence rules (on campus) by threatening to withdraw or increase premiums,\ notes Dorothy Stevens of Risk Con- sultants, a Denver Insurance f . \ ll'Ill. Northwestern, for example, is debating tough new rules on what fraternities arid sororities can · do; in part because in- surance companies refused to renew liability insurance . policies for the 28 houses at NU. A single multi-million dollar judgment against NU in a Greek injury case could con- sume much of the school's endo\f!Ilent, and fiscally cripple it for years. Last fall, a co.urt did rule the financially-strapped University of Denver should pay $5 million to a student who permanently hurl himself by jumping on a mini-trampoline inside a small fraternity house room. Courts recently have held a variety of schools liable for rapes occurring on or near their campuses, for accidents suf- fered by drunken football fans at their stadiums and .for many incidents common to any communities-like campuses- the size of small cities. \Any increase in discipline is due to drinking violations,\ asserts. Jim Grimm, the University of Florida's housing director. At Syracuse, an underaged woman got drunk and fell off a bridge despite strict new student drinking rules. ' Now the university is reassessing its rules. Its lawyer suggested there may be behavior it simply can't regulate. · Indeed, the American Council on Education last fall warned administrators not to go overboard in imposing new drinking rules. \Unrealistic rules which are incapable of practical en- forcement can actually invite greater libabllity by defining a set of 'duties' that schools do not and can not satisfy,\ the group warned. But administrators say they can choose either to live with intolerable risk of lawsuits- and huge settiements-::-or to keep imposing new rule$--.~ to: prevent them. ''It's a matter of plugging the dyke to pre~ent a catastrophe,\ says C~nisius College Dean Thomas Miller. Some schools have become increasingly worried about the potential legal .and insurance costs of student political ac- tivism since the anti•apartbeid movement heated up last spring. . \It definitely seems like the university is clamping down,'' claims Pedor Noguera, student president at Cal-Berkeley. ''They a,re enforcing rules that were not enforced before, such as hanging banners on the trees/' Berkeley officials also are pressuri.ilg students to pay to clean up effigies they burned in a recent .anti-draft rally. \They want $600,\ Noguera gasps. \That's outrageous.\ More than 100 Cornell students are being charged with trespassing inan Ithaca, N.Y. court, although last spring protestors were routinely \tried\ through the campus judiciary, adds activist Prof. David Lyons . ''The administration and trustees, are super-sensitive about protests,\ Lyons ex- plains. ''They fear they are being viewed as heavies. It's bringing back real bad memories of the late· sixties,\ observes the USSA's Ham. Cornell Dean of Students David Drinkwater says the \crackdown\ aims to minitriize the school's liability. At a protest\ \shanty town\ last fall,. he recalls, ''One of the shanties burned down, sending flames 25 feet high, which cam~ close to one of the campus --\buildings. This definitely provoked concern about liability.'' Allanight sit-ins, Drit}kwater · adds, can expose a school to lawsuits if one ofthe students in 'the unattended campus bUilding should be injured. · Fears of crime drove North Carolina State to force all dorm visitors-including parents-to sign in and leave their driver's licenses at the front desk, says housing director Cynthia ·Bonner. \We have a feeling of resp.onsibility toward the students,\ she says. But administrators, student Sen. Michael Parker says, refuse to add lighting to dark areas on campus, adding that campus police \don't work in areas where most mugging and rapes take place.\ Seniors:·· 57MoreDays Ulitil Gradaationl ..

' . c·ollege Costs · The average costs• of attending college for school years ending: · · $14 12 10 8 6 4 . ' (In ·thousands of dollar$) Private ... · . ~ - Public ( '84 '85 1 '86' 1 Esthnated 2 Projected ~ *Tuition, room, board· and ether fees . - &nlrct.B: A merica11. C<nmtit on Education; Chronicle of CONCORDIENSIS? Apri/17, 1986 WE'RE NOT auaT .I. LOT Or COLD AIR All iCe c:reMn 1$ not created equ:al-Some is pumped up with air sd it lool\5 like more t.han it really is. At ~ &Je'N\y~ wllat you see i$ what you get. Dense,rieh,he'avy. cream laden ice cream chock full or top qimlity walfll;lt.3. mammoth pecan halv~. chxolate chunks,l1e2tl'f~ -and re'al 01'eo 8 Cookies. f>ut wehan,Uy use any of our _ competitions favorite ingredient -·:2:\002. \ ' . '\ ~ • • ·~ · ADtJm;y Sch~ 34 Phila. St. Crossga.Uis MeJl • Be9-96l2 1706 Upper Union St. 684-3740 579New'Scotla.n.dAve. • 482-1714 346-0251 Page9 .,c;.~~~~..q.~~~~~·~<Q:.~:~=<Q=·~=~~· ..q..:.:.g,:.q.::~:.q,::-. '========~======== · HELP CONQUER THE EPIDEMIC OF FEAR! ! p Via Venato Cafe ~ Higher Ed-ucatian., . Walt Street J our1iill. What is Acq-uired Immune ~ · Roma Appian Way Deficiency Syndrome? § · invites Acquired because it is not genetic or associated with any § Union College Students particular sexual orientation. .... § Immune Deficiency because a person with AIDS has a depressed Immune System making it ppssible .for that § person to .contract a deadly opportunistic infection. ~.... Syndrome because of a variety of symptoms and a t § collection of a variety of manifestations within individual victims. Come TUESOAV, APRIL 22, to hear LAW-RENCE ELLIOT, speaker. from the AIDS i COun~il of Northeastern New '(ork, discuss that the. HTLV-111/LAV virus is necessary but § not sufficient to cause AIDS. § . TIME:7:00· p.m·. PLACE: Hale House ~Qxq>..q.~~~IQ>~ . • . . May 9, 10 ,11 Blood·mobile Today and ·Tomorrow in Fox lounge, ·11 a.m.-to ·s p.m. For more · information, .. ·. call x6118 the difference is ..• . . ... your kind of place •• • the difference is exciting gifts •. . the difference is distinctive cards · · and stationery •. . the difference is your kind of / clothes at a d.iscount o • • the difference is minutes from campus . the difference is corner of Liberty and South Ferry Streets Scllelfectsdy. Visa- MssterCilrd 382-7600 - Hours Mon.-Fri. 10:00-5:30 Sat. 10:00-5:00 I~E.F. Seminar on Women in the Curriculum and the Institution · Ap.ril 17, 12:30 p~m. Huni·anities Lounge (Bring your lunch) Title: Women's Lives Transformed: Women and Demographic Change from the 18th to the 20th Century Discussion Leader: Robert Wells, History Department Read~ngs: R.V. Wells~ \Quaker Marriage Patterns in a Colonial Perspective\ R.V. Wells, \F~rUiity ConJr.ot~·irt Nineteenth· ~ to a Saturday Night § . Special! ~ $5.00Tortellini· with 3 choices of sauces Alfredo, Bolognese, Red free glass of beer or wine included · OR $1.00 OFF of anything ~\.d Regular Menu ~ 1841 VanVranken Ave. ltnion ~olltgt ..f'atultp Colloquium HERMAN B. ZIMMERMAN PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY THE EVOLUTION OF AN OCEAN TUESDAY, APRIL 22, at 4:30 P.Ma 55016 COFFEE & TEA AT 4:00 P.M. . . ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND · T~r.I-E WfiRP VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (5 18) 370·3257 · \The Chemistry Department is . conducting a third-year review of Professor Lawrence McGahey D Anyone wishing to contribute to t:his review is asked to contact (JI.,, :; . \'' ~. ~ . . Ce.ntury America't ·· • . . . .. R.V .. We~IS 1 ''Women's Wves Transformed\ ··-.,,_ Professor D. F. Weick of the Chemistry Department.\ . I •I·- _.;. ,,.: -~it.:-1<; .,. • ,f·; ,

-~ 1 l · Page 10 CONCO/t.D!ENSIS, Apri/.17, 1986 ~ ' ' ..,...::___- _________ • I • <!lJlltOlfbit1tsfS LETTERS Join Hands Concordiensis would like to ase this space, initiaUy, to thank the panel members and those members of the community who attended last Monday's \State of the Unio!l\ discus~ion,. We believe that this was a productive evenmg for U mon m many ways. Those in attendance found the discussion informative and thought-provoking. We see this as a first step in what will hopefully form a more constructive problem~solving environment at Union. Students must be responsible for becoming more in- formed about the issues at hand (even though Monday's questions were indeed informed ones) in order to offer intelligent suggestions in tryingto solve problems they are concerned with. Perhaps the most dominant concern ex- pressed during the evening was that students do .not have proper representation ill the decision..;making process. This is due, in part, to the fact that administration officials believe that most students are misinformed and therefore cannot offer viable, logicalsolutions to, problems. However, Monday night proved that students have put a great a-eal of thought into their concerns and have a justified feeling that they are sometimes being overlooked. · · 'Even though, on paper, students are represented in many of the decision-making bodies of the College, many students are\Uot convinced that the administrative process is con- ducted with a spirit of student-administrative cooperation. Students are not arguing that their input is completely overlooked, rather, as was indicated last Monday, they feel a frustration that there does. not exist a mutual respect between the groups. As Professor Tidmarch pointed out that night, we all must learn from each other. We must try to work together to find solutions to the problems which we all must deal with. The \us-they\ exists between students and ad- ministrators is a difficult one to knock down. The administrative officials, many students believed, are not exemplary in their attitudes. They have not displayed a reflection of what a true liberal arts ideology teaches us: that of open-mindedness and willingness to listen irt reaction to overwhelming studentconcerns. However, we hope that both sectors of Union will engage in a more constructive method in order to develop the mutual respect t.\lat is necessary for an understanding and healthy governing apparatus. It is in the hands of both the students and the administrators. Now, tbeymust be joined. Make MiUions: Take EC0-34 A $50,000 student-managed investment fllnd has been established at Union College. The fund was made possible by the generous gift of former· Union parents, Heinz and Ruth Eppler. The fund wiD be managed by 15 students selected by three economics faculty members. The goal of the fund is to maximize its assets~ and give st11dents financial investment training. However, there is a restriction in applying to manage the fund that precludes many qualified and interested st11dents from initially participating. Any student wanting to be on the investment committee must have taken Economics-34, Introduction to Financial'Analysis. Economics-34 teaches students portfolio theory and. other financial skills. But, Economics-34 does not give students any advantage in the buying and selling of financial in- struments. Success and profit in the stock market comes through £:xperience: experience in investing, experience watching the stock market regularly, and experience working in the industry. Moreover,- a successful investor must have in- sight, vision, and most importantly, luck. None of these can be ta11ght, not even in Economics-34. If Economics-34 is a prerequisite and the key to making money in the stock market, as certain members of the economics department feel, then why aren't traders and brokers on Wall St. flocking to Schenectady to take this great course? Initially, this committee will lack diversity. Instead, it will be primarily comprised of up_perclass Economics majors since they are the only ones that have taken Economics-34. Then as other interested and qualified students desire to participate in the program they will take Economics-34, assuming there is room in the class for non- Economics majors. Presently, a problem exists, since many qualified students are denied the opportunity to even apply to manage the fund. Hopefully, the problem will be solved in the future and the committee will be composed 9f in- terested and qualified students_ with various majors that also have other training ln the financial indust:cy besides Economics-34. Sm.ergism or -Isolationism . ~ To tbe Editor: All of us here at Union would probably agree that this academic year has been both demanding and convulsive. It is time that we investigate the reasons as to why some of these Droblerns have brought about the discontent that is so ram• pant throughout the college community before we continue to blame any one organization ( Le. Administration). Issue No.1: Union College Facilities The Administration, the Board cf Trustees, God, George Burns, and any other ruling body are responsible for planning the direction that the college shoUld go. This includes. decisions on portfolio · management, tuition, course scheduling, and among other things 1he renovation of college facilities. Unfortunately, when it is time to implement any of the above those who find themselves in the middle of the ren()vations are going to be the most affected. Whether or not the Administration, God and George Burns made an ill-fated decisio11 in the degree of im- plementation of the renovations · (Alumni Gym, Carnegie Hall, Hale llouse) should not be the target of criticism. Rather, we as a conege community should focus 011r creativity and harness our energies within those clubs, organizations, and facilities that are still in service so that we may tnlQ{imize the pleasure of oW' 'tenure' here at Union. Iss:ue Nf). 2 Drinking Age For those of you who are 21 and older and aren't concerned · with tbis issue then skip this section. The rest of '11s should keep in mind that it ~\VaS ll(Jt the decision of the Amiiti~tration, ~ God, and espet!ialliy George Burns to raise tbe d~illking age on campus to ~1. [t was the action of our govemoi',, vrhQ.if he bad his way wo-uld ;l:\aise the legal age to 27 so bat those irresponsible ancl 1oornature youngsters wouldlll ~t endanger the lives of the :inJnlJC!ent. The Administration's r~spo11se. ·to the change in the :le~al age has been both fair i.lnd ac• commodating. 'With. the establishment oftJie21 clab. the allowance of a:!coOh&l to be served at fra:ternity and sorority partiest()\IJose-wh() are 'legal,' and es:p.eciaUy the avoidance of a DI;.Y ()AMPUS clearly indicates the degree of participation 11im t the Administration lta:s '])lit forth. Issue No. 3Gel\1im.e Probably morE tbllll· ally of the issues yet diScliSsed both in this article and 01t eampus bas been the issue --oif Gel Time. Rather than ar;g11e for' or against the pr()gl.'ll:tn, let us examine how andJJos:siiJly why the students have• J1BSIJ()nded to this controversiai issue .. Union bas an organi~\;atioll that is designed to rEpresent the student body, lmo WIJ· fcR-mally as the Student li\ortllll. It is comprised of a gr-.()ap of in- dividuals who woere ,C!hosen by the students to -repl'esent and lobby on behalf ()E the student body to other orgamatiolls (i.e. Administration). 'l'lle Cill~stion ~hat should be ]JO!Idered is not Just whether theStlll3.e.IJtJi'ol'UIIl voted in unison witJ1, 11le desires of the student oodr, IJtlt to what extent did the student body participate in lobbying their ~el_low representatives on this 1ssue. When the student body · has elected those which com- prise the Student Forum. the responsibility of the student ~ody does not rest entirely upon the Student Forum. They are only as strong as those who stand behind them-the student body. It is both the respon• sibility of the voters as well as the elected officials to carry out the policies with which all of us deem divinely fit ~or the college comnnmity to pursue. This is especially true when you have a Small community such as Union College. . There are surely many more issues which c~ncern Union and the community. I apologize for my negligence of them in this article. The point that I want to make is very simple and clear. If we as students actively participate with the Student Forum, Faculty, and Administration (and maybe even with.-:George Burns, no offense to God) in rebuilding Union's spirit and enthusiasm that has made this campus so vibrant in the past, then thr()ugh this synergism, progress can .only prevail. F.or those you who seem not to have tlie time of day to participate constructively in any of Union's extracurricular activities (excluding various nocturnal activities) or at least understand the cause of the problem, then there is only one thing left for you to do, and that's to do what is best for you, the $tudent body, and the rest of the college community- . TRANSFER! . . Sincerely, Brian M. Kelly MDA Marathon Dance .Super To tile Editor: Tlu Social Alternatives Committee would like to take this ()pportunity to thank the entire college community for making the First Annual Muscular Dystrophy Assodati.on Superdance Maratbon a tremendous suc- cess. By the end of the evening, after six hours of danciilg, Union raised $1,846.18 for MDA-a figure wen above what was expected. A SIK!Cial thanks to Jan Grey, Howard Billings and Mrs. Marra for their support and effol\ts. Congratulations to the . pledges of Sigma Delta Tau for winniBg the team competition All LeHers to the Editctr must be typed deuhle-spaced and sullrniHed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before pu .. ication. All letters 1111111 be signed by no · more than four people ancl all writers should prolride their addresses · anll phone numbers for verification of the letter. ~mes normally will not be withheld. · Ce11cordlensis reserves the right to relect leHers that are lihltus or do not conform to standards Gf saod taste. ,I \• \ . , f and walking awa) witli a brand new 19\ color telewision. And to Loti Kaplan for illdividuany raising the most DJO!ley and winning a trip fol\'t'Wil·to Roston. · But most im]lortllntly, we would like to tllall~ tile more than 50 dancen ~WiltJ· gathei\ed sponsors amd 4anced throughout the niJ!h:lt t!J llelp find a cure for MD. 1.Vitll()ut your help, MDA would be that much f1lrther away from finding a cure for this crippling disease. Our sincerest'thanks, Stacy Fassberg JohnZuk Melissa Malkin Kevin Irla!ld · Kim Silvers Adam Helfand i' .. , ' .,. ... .. __ . '

· _P_;;ag~e_tO _________________ ___:C::..:O:.:N..:....C=-O::..::RDIENSTS, Apri/17, 1986 --·--- ····--· ~--------~------~------- FoiJI'Ifkri at l lnwn College /877 ------------ ----------- Join Hands Concordiensis would like to use this space, initially, to thank the panel members and those members of the community who attended last Monday's \State of the Unio~\ discus~ion: We believe that this was a productive evemng for Umon m many ways. Those in attendance found the discussion informative and thought-provoking. We see this as a first step in what will hopefully form a more constructive problem-solving environment at Union. Students must be responsible for becoming more in- formed about the issues at hand (even though Monday's questions were indeed informed ones) in order to offer intelligent suggestions in trying to solve problems they are concerned with. Perhaps the most dominant concern ex- pressed during the evening was that students do not have proper representation in the decision-making process. This is due, in part, to the fact that administration officials believe that most students are misinformed and therefore cannot offer viable, logical solutions to problems. However Monday night proved that students have put a great deal of thought into their concerns and have a justified feeling that they are sometimes being overlooked. Even though, on paper, students are represented in many of the decision-making bodies of the College, many students are i10t convinced that the admmistrative process is con- ducted with a spirit of student-administrative cooperation. Students are not arguing that their input is completely overlooked, rather, as was indicated last Monday, they feel a frustration that there does not exist a mutual respect between the groups. As Professor Tidmarch pointed out that night, we all must learn from each other. We must try to work together to find solutions to the problems which we all must deal with. The \us-they\ exists between students and ad- ministrators is a difficult one to knock down. The administrative officials, many students believed, are not exemplary in their attitudes. They have not displayed a reflection of what a true liberal arts ideology teaches us: that of open-mindedness and willingness to listen in reaction to overwhelming student concerns. However, we hope that both sectors of Union will engage in a more constructive method in order to develop the mutual respect that is necessary for an understanding and healthy governing apparatus. It is in the hands of both the students and the administrators. Now, they must be joined. Make Millions: Take EC0-34 A $50,000 student-managed investment fund has been established at Union College. The fund was made possible by the generous gift of former Union parents, Heinz and Ruth Eppler. The fund will be managed by 15 students selected by three economics faculty members. The goal of the fund is to maximize its assets, and give students financial investment training. However, there is a restriction in applying to manage the fund that precludes many qualified and interested students from initially participating. Any student wanting to be on the investment committee must have taken Economics-34, Introduction to Financial Analysis. Economics-34 teaches students portfolio theory and other financial skills. But, Economics-34 does not give students any advantage in the buying and selling of financial in- struments. Success and profit in the stock market comes through e:xperience: experience in investing, experience watching the stock market regularly, and experience working in the industry. Moreover, a successful investor must have in- sight, vision, and most importantly, luck. None of these can be taught, uot even in Economics-34. If Economics~34 is a prerequisite and the key to making money in the stock market, as certain members of the economics department feel, then why aren't traders and brokers on Wall St. flocking to Schenectady to take this great course? Initially, this conunittee will lack diversity. Instead, it will be primarily comprised of upperclass Economics majors since they are the only ones that have taken Economics-34. Then as other interested and qualified students desire to participate in the program they will take Economics-34, asswning there is room in the class for non- F~conomics majors. Presently, a problem exists, since many qualified students are denied the opportunity to even apply to manage the fund. Hopefully, the problem will be solved in the future and the committee will be composed of in- terested and qualified students with various majors that also have other training in the financial industry besides Economics-34. LETTERS Synergism or Isolationism ---------------------- ~~--~--~~ section. The rest of us should extent tlid the student bady To the Editor: AU of us here at Union would probably agree that this academic year has been both demanding and convulsive. It is time that we investigate the i easons as to why some of these oroblems have brought about the discontent that is so ram- pant throughout the college community before we continue to blame any one organization (i.e. Administration). Issue No.1: Union College Facilities The Administration, the Board of Trustees, God, George Burns, and any other ruling body are responsible for planning the direction that the college should go. This includes decisions on portfolio management, tuition, course scheduling, and among ather things the renovation of college facilities. Unfortunately, when it is time to implement any of the above those who find themselves in the middle of the renovations are going to be the most affected. Whether or not the Administration, God and George Burns made an ill-fated decision in the degree of im- plementation of the renovations (Alumni Gym, Carnegie Hall, Hale House) should not be the target of criticism. Rather, we as a coHege community should focus our creativity and harness our energies within those clubs, organizations, and facilities that are still in service so that we may maximize the pleasure of our 'tenure' here at Union. Issue No.2 Drinking Age For those of you who are 21 and older and aren't concerned with this issue then skip this keep in mind that it was not the patticipate in lobbying their decision of the Administration, felbw representatives on this Ged, and especially George issuE. When the student body Burns to raise the drinking age has elected those which com- on campus to 21. It was the pris~ tile Student Forum, the actien of our governor, who if he respo11sibility af the student had his way would raise the bodyd~es not rest entirely upon legal age to 27 so that those the St11dent Forum. They are ii\responsible and immature oRly- .as strong as those who youngsters wouldn't endanger stand behind them-the student the lives of the innocent. The body. It is both the respon- Aciministration's response to sibilit.Y of the voters as well as the change in the legal age has the el~cted officials to carry out been both fair and ac- the (l[)licies with which all of us com.modating. With the deEm divinely fit for the college establishment of the 21 club, the conuntU1ity to pursue. This is allowance of alcohol to be especially true when you have a served at fraternity and small C()mmWlity such as Union sorority parties to those who are Col!Ege 4 'legal,' and especially the There are surely many more avoidance of a DRY CAMPUS issuEs V'Vhich concern Union and clearly indicates the degree of the <:{)mmunity. I apologize for participation that the my ne~ligence of them in this Administration has put farth. article. The point that I want to mak:e is very simple and clear. Issue No. 3Gel Time If ~e as students actively Prebably more than any of t.he issues yet discussed both in t:his article and on campus has been the issue of Gel Time. Rather than argue for or against the program, let us examine how and possibly why tlle students have responded to t:llis controversial issue. Union has an organization that is clesigned to represent the student body, known formally as the Student Forwn. It is comprised of a group of in- dividuals who were chosen by the students to represent and lobby on behalf of the student body to other organizations (i.e. Administration). The question that should be pondered is not just whether the Student Forum V<Jted in unison with the desires of the student body, but to what part:ieipate with the Student For11rn, Faculty, and Administration (and maybe even with George Burns, no offense to God) in rebuilding Unio11 's spirit and enthusiasm that hta.s made this campus so vibr~nt in the past, then through this SY'llergism, progress can only prEvail. For those you wha seem D()t to have the time of day to J)articipate constructively in any ()f Union's extracurricular activitiEs (excluding various nocturnal activities) or at least unde~stand the cause of the problem, then there is only one thing l~ft for you to do, and that's to do what is best for you, the stutient body, and the rest of the !!ollege community- TRJ\.NSFER! Sincerely, Brian M. Kelly MDA Marathon Dance Super ---------------------- To the Editor: The Social Alternatives Committee would like to take this opportunity to thank the entire college community for making the First Annual Muscular Dystrophy Association Superdance Marathon a tremendous suc- cess. By the end of the evening, after six hours of dancfug, Union raised $1,846.18 for MDA-a figure well above what was expected. A special thanks to Jan Grey, Howard Billings and Mrs. Marra for their support and efforts. Congratulations to the pledges of Sigma Delta Tau for winning the team competition All leHers to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people · and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect letters that are libelous or do not conform to standards of good taste. and walking away with a brand new 19\ color television. And to Lori Kaplan for individually raising the most money and winning a trip for two to Boston. But most importantly, we would like to thank the more tban 50 dancers who gathered sponsors and danced tbroughout the night to help find a cure for MD. Without your help, MDA would be that much furtllei away from finding a ewe :f()r this crippling disease. Our sincerest thanks, Stacy Fassberg JohnZuk Melissa Malkin Kevin Irland Kim Silvers Adam Helfand ' l I ! • 1. ' i I ' ' I I I • j I ·' T l I I I . ,.

.. .,. .... '\-~· . ~ ' CONCORDIENSIS,Apri/17, 1986 Page U -- . . ' -.. . . ~ .........!..~--.----· . ' . ' LETTERS COMMENTARIES The Definition Broadened To the Editor: iftlds scenario didn't take place we would be inadvertently .After . reading Paul _$ch()p's helping those groups that latest editorial comment I feel society· as a whole tries to keep that I must comment on his on the outside of the decision letter on conservatism. Mr. making process. Obviously, as Schop seems. to forget certain our internal pr.oblems grew we aspects of government service would have to turn inward and when he defines a conservative our international power and government. I am· sure that prestige (which is now,at a low~ even most conservatives wollld evident by our allies failure to not define a conservative follow President Reagan's lead: government in the manner that and the Philippines asking Mr. Schop does. Japan_for economic aid and not I would first like tQ point ·out· us) would become non-existent the contradictioin between Mr. out of necessity. · Schop's views c;m a flat inc()me Mr. Schop also states that tax rate and the flat sales tax there will be a technology rate (stated in ~s comm,eJLtary spillover from advances made uProposal Doesn't Pass''), Why in military research and is a regressive tax good ()11 the production, but as stated above federal level but wrong ()11 tlle these technological advances state level? The sales· ta:x is would never reach the outside levied on a lower level of industry. His example of the pi-icing,· particularly the micro-chip is an exception only amount of tbe goods purch~sed because the Soviet Union was (I am not defending the able to eventually produce it elimination of the deduction-Qn and we had. to do something the surface it seems with it, so industry was given reasonable), while the fEderal access to the knowledge. Even tax is based on iri:come. If if there is a spill-over, it . cer- President Reagan's tax plan tainly would not help all of the were to be passed; the 1Dwest economy; for the people that level of income to .be· t~xed can ta~e advantage of such would be. about $12;000 and 10 knowledge are already working percent of that ($1200), would and most of the unemployed do hurt a person more tllan 10 not have the education to use it percent of say, $100;000 and therefore would not be ($10,000), since the person who hired as a result. works· for $12,000 bas mucllless Mr. Schop· only leaves $100 to work with after paying bills bi.llj.on for non-defense spending and ·other necessities (minor and that most of this would be ones like · mortgage or rent used to pay off the national debt payxnents, food, clothing, etc.) and the rest would pay for than the person who works for national park maintenance \an $100,000 and pays similar infinitesimal slice\ and amotmtsinbills, (actuallytb,ese government salaries. What bills are probably lligher about social services, certainly because these people rnake the poor who cannot take care of more and as a result tiley use themselves need help (even the services more). Also, the President Reagan admits they person who makes $10(),000 exist, to an extent). Services probably has more taxable and like job training cannot be non-taxable income (stocks, solely provided by the state and bonds, IRA's, etc.) since they · local governments; these can have more money to play with. and must be subsidied by the So it seems to me that a Federal Government. What regressive federal tax is more about · housing, welfare, oppressive than the salEs tax. education, and food for the Next, I would like to «<iScuss hungry, aren't these also areas Mr. Schop's dissemination of of responsibility of the federal the federal budget. Surely government as wen as state and setting aside four-fifths ()f the . local? Surely -none of these by budget is excessive, (even the . themselves have the resources most hawkish in Congress do necessary to provide the ser- not advocate such a split). If Vices stated above. Wasn't the such a division were made, the federal government created communists that cons~natives \by the people, and for the so fear would be ecstatic, for people\ and doesn't the out: economy woUld suret:y fall government have the respon- flat on its face (especially w.ith sibllity to look after. the well· most of the other $100 biltion being ofits citizens; isn't thiS as paying o.ff the national ~ebt). much a part of defense as For the most part tms ts military strength? When a tree because none of the money rots from within all the spent would be returned to the protection of the outside will do economy; the averag~ con· no good, the tree will die sumer does not buy military anyway. In \closing the window products, nor will any advances of vulnerability\ the Reagan in technology make their way administration has done just into the industrial sectoT, .(they that and this is what PaulSchop are all declared Top-Seeret) or advocates. A country 9 S prestige if they do they will probably be · depends - on more than just obsolete, and as a result the military strength; but if it economy could not possibly does, why are we presently one grow as Mr. Schop saiditwould. of the least respected countries It would, however, collapse and in the world? If defense means as the population'.s sliffering so much to a country's became worse and worse, economy; why are the fringe groups would ~eceive economies of Japan, more support. One ,of these Switxerland, and others so would . be· the communists~ and much more healtheir tban ours eventually one of these groups and why is the Soviet Union's could take power (as in Ger-- and Britain's so poor? many after World War I); even Obviously, social services are needed and if, as Mr. Schop wishes, the federal govern- ment's role is small,. e:xcept for defense, where will the mont!Y for hou:;ing the homeless; feeding the hungry; training and educating the unemployed and poor among others, so they can improve their living con- ditions come from? The state and local governments will not be able to provide it because they will be too busy paying government salaries; main- taining bridges, highways, and water mains; providing a state police force; local road maintenance, and local, police, fire and sanitatiou services. Since they have to provide all these things without subsidies from Washington, imagine how much bigger tlleir budgets will have to be, especially if they are expected to provide social services. Large• amounts of money will be needed to provide t:tiese services, hence a large tax increase in each state will be necessary and add that to the loss of deductability of state and local taxes, the total tax bite will be worse than it is now (except, in a flat tax rate program, for the ricb). As a result our standard of living would invariably fall or, more likely, our economy would probably collapse triggering a worldwide depression since large amounts of foreign money are invested in the United States. This in turn could result in many petty dictatorships or conununist dictatorships, ex- pecially in the third world, which is one of the things we were trying to prevent. I have been rambliJLg ·on and the reader is probably bored to tears so r will conClude with the following thoughts. IN THIS LE'ITER I have not offered alternate ways to spend the money appropriated for the federal bqdget. Well, here are some ideas. I urge the reader to look at them and Seriously consider them: instead of looking for new and \more effective\ methods of killing, why dontt we 1) look.fora cure for cancert AID's, and the many other deadly and crippling diseases (i.e. Muscular Dystrophy, Cerebral Palsy, etc.) that are still among us; 2) try to improve our standard of living-eighth in tile world; 3) try to improve our infant mortality rate (.higher than some third world C()Uiltries); 4) look for new fuels t() replace the world's diminshing oil supply; 5) improve education and .give the poor a better c)lance of bettering themselves; 6)' look for ways to feed the hungry and house the millions of homeless; 7) curing our drug addicts and 8) helping poor countries improve their economic situation and become self-sufficient. These eight ideas, particularly the last one, will help the United States achieve its goals and. increase the chances for world peace more than our government's present policies and certainly more than Mr~ Schop's ideas. PhilipK. HDtchltiss, '87 · LeHers to the Editor and Commentaries do nGt necessarily reflect the opini~ns of tile editorial board of Concordiensis. Judgement Day for Managua By BRIAN M. KELLY As the winter doldrums come to a close, America arises to a new awakening. From the shores of Tripoli to the halls of Montezuma (or should I say the ruins of Tripoli to the prisons of Montezuma), across the rising productivity of the farmlands in the midwest through the record highs on Wall Street, America is on the roll again. Although these times have historically never lasted very long, it is time that we learn from what we, are doing right versus from what we are doing wrong. President Reagan's response to the Libyan government in the Gulf of Sidra was a landmark of success for U.S. foreign policy. Chalk one up for the good guys, for Quadhafi just fell off his high borse right in his own corral. Although Libya's support o~ internatiopal terrorism will most definitely continue, America has been given the opportunity to retaliate upon the aggressor which has brought back the patriotism that has been missing since the early 1960's. The Libyan conflict not only · made a legitmate assertion of the U.S.'s right to free navigation of international waters, but a:lso sent a signal to those coWltries or organizations which maybe contemplating the launching of aggressive action upon citize.ns of the United States throughout the world. This signal clearly indicates that if the U.S. can identify the aggressor, as in the Gulf of Sidrat it will take whatever action necessary to destroy or immobilize them. Thanks, Qadhafi, you just made our day! Similar actions and events in Central America have also asserted President Reagan's policy towards the communists operating in Nicaragua. In a quick response to the San· danista incursion, the U.S. assisted the Honduran govern- ment by airlifting Honduran troops to counter the Nicaraguan invasion. Why Comrade Ortego would risk launcbing an attack just days before .the Senate votes on the Contra Aid in hopes of an- nihilating the Contra forces is beyond diplomatic reason. In any event, this attack assisted in the Senate's approving of an aid package to the freedom fighters by a vote of 53 to 47 01.1 MarCh '1:1. \ It's back to the House for a reconsideration of the Contra Aid package on April15, which lost by only 15 votes in early · March.· This vote could decide the future security of the entire Western Hemisphere. This vote is being watched very closely by the Soviet Union as a measure of whether the U.S. can deal with the Soviet's efforts to dominate the· developing countries. The people of Africa and Latin America are sooner or later going to cboose between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. as to which one can effectively deal with tlleir growing problems. During the 1960's and '70s, the southeast Asian countries were coerced into making a choice which cost the U.S. more than 55,000 American soldiers and billions of dollars and resulted in the expansion of com- muniSI'n. We have a distinctive advantage over the Soviets-our form of government and the self-determination of the people is simply the · only fair and moral route to go. But we seem til have a problem in our system of government, and that's in~ decision. The question that we must answer and answer fast is, hasn't President Reagan proven hinself in terms of his approach towards Soviet ex- pansionism? Under hiS leadership in the past five year·s, there has not been a single inch ·Of land that has fallen prey to the communists. Hisfears about the nature of the Soviet Union's presence in Central America have already begun to come true. The presence of Cuban troops and Soviet military advisors along with the anti-aircraft ground to surface missiles and an entire warehouse of guns and arne munition found on the island of Grenada during the U.S. liberation of the country in October, 1983, paralleled witll the build-up of Cuban and Sandanista troops along the Honduras-ElSalvador border clearly reveals that the Soviets are not just passing out food to feed a population which they have brutally suppressed under a communist dictatorship. This indecision which at times has · created even larger ·problems (i.e. Vietnam) must ·come · to an end. Let's reciprocate the . faith our President has placed in the American people. It is time that we commit ourselves to a policy that will work only if we s11pport it 100 percent. Let's hope tllat the House votes for the aid to the Contras before we find ourselves battling a western incursion of communist ex- pansicnism. Bom Jn U.S.A. really doesn't sound too well in RussUm. Writing Tutors Sought T9 the Editor: The Writing Center is now accepting applications from students interested in working as Writing Tutors next year. We would appreciate your printing thU! letter as an announcement. Tutors wDrk about eight hours each week in the Writing Center in Old Chapel. They are paid at the usual rate of Work-8tudy students, though they need not qualify for Work-study to be employed. Wewanttutorswho write well themselves, of course. But more important is an .ability to help other students improve their writing, without doing it for them. A knowledge of mechanics and grammar is basic, but the tutor also needs patience and imagination to help another writer through the process of composing. Interested students should obtain an Application from the Writing Center between 2 and 4:30p.m., or from my office in Humanities 210 in the mornings. Applications should be sub-- mitted no later than Friday; May2. Alan Nelson, Director The Writing Center Washington Trip Memorable To the Editor: On behalf of the International Relations Club, I would like to thank Mrs. Marra, Prof~r Klunk and especially Professor Hartwig for all their belp in making the trip to Washington a success. It was certainly a memorable experience. Sincerely, Alison Bender

j I • 1. ' i I ' ' I I I • I I T l I ·' • ! • CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 Page II LETTERS COMMENTARIES The Definition Broadened To the Editor: After reading Paul Schop's latest editorial comment I feel that I must comment on his letter on conservatism. Mr. Schop seems to forget certain aspects of government service when he defines a conservative government. I am sure that even most conservatives would not define a conservative government in the manner that Mr. Schop does. I would first like to point out the contradictioin between Mr. Schop's views on a flat income tax rate and the flat sales tax rate (stated in his commentary \Proposal Doesn't Pass\). Why is a regressive tax good on the federal level but wrong on the state level? The sales tax is levied on a lower level of pricing, particularly the amount of the goods purchased (I am not defending the elimination of the deduction-on the surface it seems reasonable), while the federal tax is based on iricome. If President Reagan's tax plan were to be passed, the lowest level of income to be taxed would be about $12,000 and 10 percent of that ( $1200), would hurt a person more than 10 percent of say, $100,000 ($10,000), since the person who works for $12,000 has much less to work with after paying bills and other necessities (minor ones like mortgage or rent payments, food, clothing, etc.) than the person who works for $100,000 and pays similar amounts in bills, (actually these bills are probably higher because these people make more and as a result they use the services more). Also, the person who makes $100,000 probably has more taxable and non-taxable income (stocks, bonds, IRA's, etc.) since they have more money to play with. So it seems to me that a regressive federal tax is more oppressive than the sales tax. Next, I would like to discuss Mr. Schop's dissemination of the federal budget. Surely setting aside four-fifths of the budget is excessive, (even the most hawkish in Congress do not advocate such a split). If such a division were made, the communists that conservatives so fear would be ecstatic, for our economy would surely fall nat on its face (especially with most of the other $100 billion paying off the national debt). For the most part this is because none of the money spent would be returned to the economy; the average con- sumer does not buy military products, nor will any advances in technology make their way into the industrial sector, (they are all declared Top-Secret) or if they do they will probably be obsolete, and as a result the economy could not possibly grow as Mr. Schop said it would. It would, however, collapse and as the population's suffering became worse and worse, fringe groups would receive more support. One of these would be the conununists, and eventually one of these groups could take power (as in Ger- many after World War I); even if this scenario didn't take place we would be inadvertently helping those groups that society as a whole tries to keep on the outside of the decision making process. Obvieusly, as our internal problems grew we would have to turn inward and our international power and prestige (which is now, at a low- evident by our allies failure to follow President Reagan's lead and the Philippines asking .Japan for economic aid and not us) would become non-existent out of necessity. Mr. Schop also states that there will be a technology spillover from advances made in military research and production, but as stated above these technological advances would never reach the outside industry. His example of the micro-chip is an exception only because the Soviet Union was able to eventually produce it and we had to do something with it, so industry was given access to the knowledge. Even if there is a spill-over, it cer- tainly would not help all of the economy; for the people that can take advantage of such knowledge are already working and most of the unemployed do not have the education to use it and therefore would not be hired as a result. Mr. Schop only leaves $100 billion for non-defense spending and that most of this would be used to pay off the national debt and the rest would pay for national park maintenance \an infinitesimal slice\ and government salaries. What about social services, certainly the poor wbo cannot take care of themselves need help (even President Reagan admits they exist, to an extent). Services like job training cannot be solely provided by the state and local governments; these can and must be subsidied by the Federal Government. What about housing, welfare, education, and food for the hungry, aren•t these also areas of responsibility of the federal government as well as state and local? Surely none of these by themselves have the resources necessary to provide the ser- vices stated above. Wasn't the fe~eral government created \by the people, and for the people\ and doesn't the governrnnent have the respon- sibility to look after the well- being of its citizens; isn't this as much a part of defense as military strength? When a tree rots from within all the protection of the outside will do no good, the tree will die anyway. fn \closing the window of vulnerability\ the Reagan administration has done just that and this is what Paul Schop advocates. A country's prestige depends on more than just military strength; but if it does, why are we presently one of the least respected countries in the world? If defense means so mucb to a country's economy; why are the economies of Japan, Switxerl'and, and others so much more healtheir than ours and why is the Soviet Union's and Britain's so poor? Obviously, social services are needed and if, as Mr. Schop wishes, the federal govern- ment's role is small, except for defense, where will the money for housing the home-less; feeding the hungry; training and educating the unemployed and poor among others, so they can improve their living con- ditions come from? The state and local governments wLll not be able to provide it because they will be too busy paying government salaries; main- taining bridges, highways, and water mains; providing a state police force; local road maintenance, and local, police, fire and sanitation services. Since they have to provide all these things without subsidies from Washington, imagine how much bigger their budgets w~ll have to be, especially if they are expected to provide social services. Large amounts of money will be needed to provide these services, hence a large tax increase in each state will be necessary and add that to the loss of deductability of state and local taxes, the total tax bite will be worse than it is now (except, in a flat tax rate program, for the rich). As a result our standard of living would invariably fall or, more likely, our economy would probably collapse triggering a worldwide depression .since large amounts of foreign money are invested in the United States. This in turn could result in many petty dictatorships or communist dictatorships, ex- pecially in the third world, which is one of the things we were trying to prevent. I have been rambling on and the reader is probably bored to tears so I will conclude with the following thoughts. IN THIS LETTER I have not offered alternate ways to spend the money appropriated for the federal budget. Well, here are some ideas. I urge the reader to look at them and seriously consider them: instead of looking for new and \more effective\ methods of killing, why don't we 1) look for a cure for cancer, AID's, and the many other deadly and crippling diseases (i.e. Muscular Dystrophy, Cerebral Palsy, etc.) that are still among us; 2) try to improve our standard of living-eighth in the world; 3) try to improve our infant mortality rate (.higher than some third world countries); 4) look for new fuels to replace the world's diminshing oil supply; 5) improve education and give the poor a better chance of bettering themselves; 6) look for ways to feed the hungry and house the millions of homeless; 7) curing our drug addicts and 8) helping poor countries improve their economic situation and become self-sufficient. These eight ideas, particularly the last one, will help the United States achieve its goals and increase the chances for world peace more than our government's present policies and certainly more than Mr. Schop's ideas. Philip K. Hotchkiss, '87 LeHers to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. Judgement Day for Managua By BRIAN M. KELLY As the winter doldrums come to a close, America arises to a new awakening. From the shores of Tripoli to the halls of Montezuma (or should I say the ruins of Tripoli to the prisons of Montezuma), across the rising productivity of the farmlands in the midwest through the record highs on Wall Street, America is on the roll again. Although these times have historically never lasted very long, it is time that we learn from what we are doing right versus from what we are doing wrong. President Reagan's response to the Libyan government in the Gulf of Sidra was a landmark of success for U.S. foreign policy. Chalk one up for the good guys, for Quadhafi just fell off his high horse right in his own corral. Although Libya's support of international terrorism will most definitely continue, America has been given the opportunity to retaliate upon the aggressor which has brought back the patriotism that has been missing since the early 1960's. The Libyan conflict not only made a legitmate assertion of the U.S.'s right to free navigation of international waters, but also sent a signal to those countries or organizations which maybe contemplating the launching of aggressive action upon citizens of the United States throughout the world. This signal clearly indicates that if the U.S. can identify the aggressor, as in the Gulf of Sidra, it will take whatever action necessary to destroy or immobilize them. Thanks, Qadhafi, you just made our day! Similar actions and events in Central America have also asserted President Reagan's policy towards the communists operating in Nicaragua. In a quick response to the San- danista incursion, the U.S. assisted the Honduran govern- ment by airlifting Honduran troops to counter the Nicaraguan invasion. Why Comrade Ortego would risk launching an attack just days before the Senate votes on the Contra Aid in hopes of an- nihilating the Contra forces is beyond diplomatic reason. In any event, this attack assisted in the Senate's approving of an aid package to the freedom fighters by a vote of 53 to 47 on March 27 .. It's back to the House for a reconsideration of the Contra Aid package on Aprill5, which lost by only 15 votes in early March. 'This vote could decide the future security of the entire Western Hemisphere. This vote is bei.Eg vvatch.ed very closely by the Soviet Union as a measure of whettuer the U.S. can deal with the Soviet's efforts to dominate the developing countries. The people of Africa and LatiJ1 America are Sl}oner or late!!· going to choose betweer the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. as to which ~me can effectively deal with th<eir growing problems. During the 1960's and '70s, the southeast Asian countries wPre coerced into making a choice which ~ost the U.S. more than 55,000 American soldiers and billions of dollars and resulted in the expansion .of com- munism. We have a distinctive advantage over the Soviets-our form of government and the self-determination of the people is simply the only fair and moral mute to go. But we seem to have a problem in our system of gov~rmn.ent, and that's in- decisbn. The question that we must answer and answer fast is, hasn't President Reagan provell ninself in terms of his appr()acll t()wards Soviet ex- pansionism? Under his leadersllip in the past five years, there has not been a single inch of land that has fallen Jlr-ey to the communists. His fearsabout the nature of the Soviet Union's presence in Central America have already begun to come true. The presence of Cuban troops and Soviet military advisors along with the anti-aircraft ground to surfacE missiles and an entire warehowe of guns and am- muniti4ln found on the island of Grenada during the U.S. liberati()n of the country in October,. 1983, paralleled with the \)ui.ld-up of Cuban and Sandani.S:a troops along the HondiU'as-ElSalvador border clearly reveals that the Soviets are n()t just passing out food to feed a pcpulation which they have br11tally suppressed under a communist dictatorship. Tms indecision which at times has created even larger ·probleJils (i.e. Vietnam) must come to an end. Let's recipro-cate the faith our Presiclent bas placed in the American people. It is time that we commit ourselves to a policy that will work only if we support it 100 percent. Let's hope that the Howe votes for the aid to the Contras before we find oursel-ves battling a western incursbn of communist ex- pansionism. Born in U.S.A. really doesn't sound too well in Russia!l. Writing Tutors Sought To the Editor: The Writing Center is now accepting applications from students interested in working as Writing Tutors next year. We would appreciate your printing this letter as an announcement. Tutors work about eight hours each week in the Writing Center in Old Chapel. They are paid at the usual rate of Work-study students, though they need not qualify for Work-Study to be employed. We want tutors who write well themselves, of course. But more important is an ability to help other st11dents improve their writing, without doing it for them. A knowledge of mecll11nics and grammar is basic, bt1t the tutor also needs patien~e and imagination to help an()ther writer through the process of composing. Interested students should obtain an Application fr()m the Writing Center between 2 and 4:30 p.m., or from my office in Huma11ities 210 in the mornings. Applications should be sub- mitted no later than Friday; May~. Alan Nelson, Director The Writing Center W asbington Trip Memorable To the Editor: On behalf of the International Relations Club, I would like to thank Mrs. Marra, Professor Klunk and especially Professor Hartwig for all thek help in makirlg the trip to W ashi.ngton a success. It was certainly a mernCJrable experience. Sinceiely, Alison Bender

· Page 12 Need A Su-mmer Job? WANTED Camp Couns:elors · R.I. • Co-Ed • Overnight Call: Marshall Gerstenblatt (401) 737;..6198 or Write: 151 Aurora Drive, Warwick, R.I. 028.89 For More Info Call: Andrea 370-6492 uS D~p;~rtmentol Health & Human Servoces TEST CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 NOW Home Cooking ln the [H]@0@ rhl©M®@ @ ~ rru ~ rru ~J rnl ®© rruu YOUR SKILL. Open Mon.-Fri. 7':30 a.m.-7:00 p.m. Daily Breakfast-Lunch-Dinner Specials· QUITTING. IT COULD BE THE TEST OF YOUR LIFE. The Social Committee Presents ... Design A T -Shirt, Fo-r Camp Union • CONTEST • -See your artwork plastered on all the students' bodies Turn designs in to Student Activities by April 30@ 4 p.m. CA.SH PRIZE Buddhist Study and · Meditation Group· Thursday, 4:30 P·r:tl· in Mi Ia no Loung·e (Secon~ Floor of Hale House) Everyon,e is invited. Bouriquc· 169 ]al' Strt't'l Handmade Silver Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts, A Complete Line of Pipes & Smoking Accessories, Rock T's and Assorted Rock Group Items Are your current activities getting you , down? Try joining Concordy .., .1'\ . m 1/1'' -Campus Protestant ...,j ~ ..... /II Ministry - )l) )}1 '\ . ~~ Lenten ·~~ Communion .services· Thursday Afternoons 5:45.6:15 Weeks 6thru 10 \ Milano Lounge . Admissions Office Seeks Student Hosts for Overnight Guests during _month of Ap~il Please can: Trisha x6454, Jen x6851, or Jeff x372-7563 ' -· ...,, . , • - • bE T1 p. 21 in cl m C< A f<J H D S1 fc

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 Need A Summer Jo·b? WANTED Camp Counselors . R.I. • Co-Ed • Overnight Call: Marshall Gerstenblatt ( 401) 737-6198 or Write: 151 Aurora Drive, Wairwick, R.I. 02889 NOW Home Cooking in the ~ For M,ore Info Call: Andrea 370-649·2 · ~ rnJ®a@ fW©(ill©@ @ 0 [Jl) ~ [ft) w ~ ©© rnru U S Depactment of Health & Human Servrces TEST YOUR SKILL. Open Mon.-Fri. 7:3·o a.m.-7:00 p.m. Daily Breakfast-Lunch-Dinner Specials QUITTING. IT COULD BE THE TEST OF YOUR LIFE. The Social Committee Presents ... Design A T -Shirt For Camp Union • CONTEST • -See your artwork plastered on all the students' bodies Turn designs in to Student Activities by April30@ 4 p.m. CASH PRIZE Buddhist Study and Meditation Group Thursday, 4:30 p.m. • 1n Milano lounge (Second Floor of Hale House) Everyone is invited. Bnuriquc· 16!1 ja\ Strt•<•t Handmade Silver Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts. A Complete Line of Pipes & Smokmg Accessories, Rock T's and Assorted Rock Group Are your current activities getting you down? Try JOining . Concordy k--- -Campus Protestant --l._J-------.. Ministry mm ~~ Lenten Communion Services Thursday Afternoons 5:45.6:15 Weeks 6thru 10 Milano Lounge Admissions Office Seeks Student Hosts for Overnight Guests during month of April Please call: Trisha x6454, Jen x6851, or Jeff x372-7563 i \ <, l . l I - iiiii -

,, CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/1.7, 1986 print by Carol Haas ·. JoAnn Berger to Perform on Flute By JOAN R. GOTLm JoAnn Berger-Flute Recital JoAnn Berger, a senior will be giving a flute recital this Thursday on Aprill7, 1986 at 8 p.m. in the Arts Building, room 215. The selection of pieces will include both contemporary and classical music. - s·onata Number One in B minor by J .S. Bach ac- .companied by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson on Harpsichord. -Mozart Quartet in A major for flute and strings with Howard Fiedler on violin, Denise Rightmire on viola, and Susan Weiss on cello. - Hindemith, \Eight Pieces'' for flute solo. - Concertiho by C. · Chaminade for flute and piano accompanied by Professor Wilson on piano. . lessons for three years to grade school and jUnior high school students. She has also played piano for ten years. While at Union College, JoAnn has played first. flute in the Concert Band freshrrian and sophomore year. Presently, she plays first flute in the Chamber Orchestra. She has been in- volved with various chamber music groups and has per- formed on Parents' Weekend and Homecoming. Al$o, JoAnn has been playing in a folk group at The Church of St. John the Evangelist and has ac- companied other dancers, singers, and musicians during her four years at Union. P.age 13 THE ARTS JoAnn has been playing flute for thirteen years. She par- ·· ticipated in Arlington High School's wind ensemble for tliree. years and the· Area All State band and orchestra. In addition to these activities, JoAnn taught flute and piano JoAnn says that she has decided to · do this recital because; \I enjoy .Performing and it is something that I have wanted to do for a long time.\ She also says that watching other people in recitals has stimulated her interest in performing herself. An applied math major, JoAnn plans on continuing her flute playing in the future. A reception will follow the recital in the Arts Building. Students can take advantage of performances .at Proctor's Theatre by purchasing 1/2-price tickets which are available a half hour before each show. _Today: A toupla White Chicks Sitting Around Talkingat 8 p.m. · ·SUMMER '86 at C. W POST ' ... -- t ••~•-,.- .... -,~•fTJ . ~., ... , .... , .. , I I c: ... · . ...... ,.-:..... ...,,,.:,_ ~· . . ' ' _., ...... ---r....: . . At Long ISland Unlversityts beautiful C. w. Post campus. ·this summer's schedule· combines diversity .with flex- Ibility .. Complete a full sem~ster·s work with 6 credits in each ot 3 sessions. or select a single course or workshop. Planning to work or play by day? Then our evening or weekend classes might be your key to adding credits ar credentials this summer. Dorms, recreational facilities and services are available at the Post campus on Long Isla rid'S lush North Shore, just minutes from beaches. and only 25 miles from Manhattan. Call516-299-2431 or return the coupon for a combined bulletin listing Summer '86 undergraduate and graduate offerings at the c. W. Post campus as well as Long Island University Campuses in Brentwood and Southampton. _________________________ ,...... ....... _~------·, r CP · SUMMER SESSIONS OFFICE I . . Long lslan. d University· .· 1 1 Plea.se'send · · · a....,.• Ca summer 'a6.Bullelln. c .. w~ I \1M mpus I 1 ~Jm most lnreresred In~ Greenvale. NY 11548 I o Undergraduate- D Graduate Name 1 , 0 May 0 June 0 July Address I 0 Qay 0 Evening' 0 weekend I · City .sreee. zip I g~fto~ . . . . . . . I. Cl SOudllllrl'ipion . ....{; .. ) . . .· . . . . . . .. . . • .. . J L ..... ,_ ......... ~~---- ...... --- ....... ~,...~~-------- .... -----.-~---- -trThe Film Commitfee Presents* This Weekend s Clint Eastwood as Dirty Harry in MAGNUM FORCE Tues., April22 \ SS016 7:30,10p.m. $1 admission THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL FILMS INCORPOAATEO Wed., April23 55016 7,9,11 . *FREE · '.:. ' . '. t····,·''

l I I I . ! ' ' ! ' \ : j l 1 ! I I l I CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/17, 1986 Page 13 THE ARTS m·tlteArts · Aprh 17 On:Campu&-ltrmkltlgna-Piauo ~eital, M~m()rial Chapel) s p.m. On.·~U$-.l'!)At'm B•rger--Flute Recitalt Arts Building 215, a p.m. Otieanll)U$-eil:l~et-JJ!d Chf;!pel Dining Room~ 9 p.m. OffCaxnpus-A Cl}upla.White Chicks Sitting Arolllld Talking-Proctor's Theatre, 8p.m. . -~ -' _y• •• Aprill8 OnQam~;.~~H~th~Hines and Hancock•' at the Rathskellar, 16p.m.-1 a.m. 011 Ca$pn,sFJ'Jri ·.·. '~Rir<ly't--50016, 7,t, 11 p.m. all weekend Off OamP\s.i4Sub~~rdStreet Dance Theatre at Proctors at s p.m. thru Aprill9 ·Af;1fill$ Ofi~\lS.,;.,Baretia:noo ~arty at J.B. 's Theatel'-LL Cool J & Doctor Jeekle & Mr. Hyde '_:.\!--·- . '. ,-·:: ' ,··':- -. ' - iff.· , . . A~t'~····· :OO,~.s~J!Ul~ ~~s-oadway CQfieertat Pr6c~ors, Sp.m. print by Carol Haas JoAnn Berger to Perform on Flute :By JOAN R. GOTLID JoAnn Berger- Flute Recital JoAnn Berger, a senior will be giving a flute recital this Thursday on April17, 1986 at a p.m. in the Arts Building, room 215. The selection of pieces will include both contemporary and classical music. - s·onata Number One in B minor by J.S. Bach ac- companied by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson on Harpsichord. - Mozart Quartet in A major for flute and strings with Howard Fiedler on violin. Denise Rightmire on viola, and Susan Weiss on cello. - Hindemith, \Eight Pieces\ for flute solo. - Concertina by C. Chaminade for flute and piano accompanied by Professor Wilson on piano. lessons for three years to grade school and junior high school students. She has also played piano for ten years. While at Union College, JoAnn has played first flute in the Concert Band freshman and sophomore year. Presently, she plays first flute in the Chamber Orchestra. She has been in- volved with various chamber music groups and has per- formed on Parents' Weekend and Homecoming. Also, JoAnn has been playing in a folk group at The Church of St. John the Evangelist and has ac- companied other dancers, singers, and musicians during her four years at Union. · F(}l'Ce1t:-sstn4, 7:30, lflp.m. !ruusHu:Prqctn~rliand8p.m. t~1t1tn(~riJ-a:t.M,~Bittrial(~pei·, U·p~m. ur~~;:~::::~;;:~~~ :.....:SSOl$;:'7. 9,11 p.m.-FREE r.(l call382.:ltm» JoAnn has been playing flute for thirteen years. She par- ticipated in Arlington High School's wind ensemble for three years and the· Area All State band and orchestra. In addition to these activities, JoAnn taught flute and piano JoAnn says that she has decided to do this recital because, \I enjoy performing and it is something that I have wanted to do for a long time.\ She also says that watching other people in recitals has stimulated her interest in performing herself. An applied math major, JoAnn plans on continuing her flute playing in the future. A reception will follow the recital in the Arts Building. Students can take advantage of performances .at Proctor/s Theatre by purchasing lh-price tickets which are available a half hour before eoch show. Today: A Coupla White Chicks Sitting Around Talkingat 8 p.m. - = = = = = = = -:. - = = ; • = ~ = !i = : ia = !i 1i I SUMMER '86 at C. W POST :··--· •. ..,,-,-,~ ...... , '*:,~.,,.,- .. , .' '' -:· .... ' ' ' --:.,-.. ....... ' It ... . ' :_-- '.,.~.-····· ' '~- ··. ' , .. .'· .. :· :' ·.__. .. '' ....... - . . . '. :,_ .·. ~~···· • 4-t ..... ,, .... ~.. I .• . . . .. : ., 'II -'#t . t ·. ~ ~ -&. . . .. . , : .. : , ' ' ' ., . ~ ~ ' . ~~ \.. • • j • ' • • • ' • ' • • ~ 1 At Long Island University's beautiful C. W. Post Campus. this summer's schedule combines diversity with flex- ibility. Complete a full semester's work \vith 6 credits in each of 3 sessions. or select a single course or workshop. Planning to work or play by day? Then our evening or weekend classes might be your key to adding credits or credentials this summer. Dorms. recreational facilities and services are available at the Post campus on Long Island's lush North Shore. just minutes from beaches. and only 25 miles from Manhattan. Call 516-299-2431 or return the coupon for a combined bulletin listing summer '86 undergraduate and graduate offerings at the c.w. Post campus as well as Long Island University campuses in Brentwood and Southampton. -----------------------------, I CP SUMMERSESSIONSOFFICE I I Long Island University I l ~~~~::~Bulletin. c. w. rost campus I I lam mostlnteresred in: Greenvale. NY ll548 I I o undergraduate 0 Graduacr ~arne I I . 0 May 0 June Cl July Address I I o Day 0 Evening 0 weekend I I 0 c.W.POIJI clay.stare.Zip 1 L_J~~~-----~~-~-----------J ·z'1The Film Committee Presents~:r B y d ._, I~ y This Weekend s 7:30, 10 p.m. $1 admission Clint Eastwood as Dirty Harry in MAGNUM FORCE Tues., April 22 . SS016 7:30, 10 p.m. $1 admission THE DAY THE EARTH STOOD STILL FILMS INCORPORATED Wed., April 23 SS016 7, 9, 11 *FREE

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 ? THE ARTS Vice President D'Andrea performed with the \Me!lowtones\ and Union College Jazz Ensemble. The Bi.g By STEVEN COLE On Smtday evening Memorial Chapel resounded with the big band swing sound of the Ron Parch· Lew Pettys Band and the Union College Jazz Ensemble. The master of ceremonies for the event was WMHT's Lawrence Boylan. The first half of the show was opened by the Mellowtones (Parch-Pettys Band) with our own vice presfdent Tom D'Andrea performing on drums. The music of the latter half was played by fifteen dedicated members of the school's jazz band. Band· SVtting Sound \ The Mellowtones, dressed in· their grey slacks, blue blazers and button down red vests, possessed the qualities .of a class act. Their opening number, \In A Mellowtone\ engulfed the audience in the loud brass sound of the band, and then drew them into the rhythm and melody. When I asked a fellow student during intennission for his opinion, he gave me the \thumbsup\ of approval. Although Union's Jazz Em~emble did not don the red vests like their swinging predecessors, they had enough pizzazz to keep my toe tapping throughout the show. Through observing the faces of audience members, I could see that everyone was enjoying them- selves as the great hits danced through the air. 1Such items played were: Woody Herman's \Four Brothers'', Duke Ellington's \Do Nothin' Till You Hear From Me'', and the classic that everyone recognized, Glen Miller's \String of Pearls\. Although the audience count was approximately fifty, it was a very receptive crowd. The free event was sponsored in part by the Performance Trust Fund through arrangements by the Schenectady Musical Union. at Proctor's a Qassic • •• Great Expectations ByKDWBERLYHANCOCK Always wary of works of literature termed \the classics\ I entered Proctor's Theatre on April 13th with no great expectations. However, I was pleased to experience the Gunthrie Theatre Company's one night performance of the Dickens' classic, Great Expedations. I now fully realize why this novel has remained well-read and loved throughout the years. · Pip was the main character whose great expectations for himself (and those placed on him from others) was the theme around which the plot centered. Pip, orphaned at a young age, was raised by his older sister in a small town outside of London. Although Pip's sister reluc- tantly undertook the task of his rearing, his brother-in-law, Joe, heartily encouraged the boy hoping he would grow to be his apprentice. Joe considered Pip his best friend which held great significance later in the play. One day while wandering alone in the marshes, Pip was accosted by a wildly savage- looking man wbose hands and feet were shackled. He ordered Pip to bring him food and a file with which to free himself. The next morning, more afraid of what the strange man would do to him than the consequences of stealing the file and pork pie, Pip returned to the marsh to witness a struggle between the excaped convict and another man. As the men struggled Pip ran home with his guilt and the convict was later apprehended. This began the long in- tertwining web of intrigue, mystery and suspense which Dickens weaves throughout the story. Soon after this incident, his sister sent Pip to a strange boarded-up old mansion owned by an eccentric woman named Miss Havisham. Pip, still a fairly young boy, was frightened by the old musty decadence of the house. Miss Havisham appeared day after day in the same dirty, shred- ding wedding garment that one \/ now fully realize why this no••e/ has remained well-read and loved ... \ could tell had once been quite elegant. She ordered Pip to play cards with her young adopted daughter Estella whom Pip thought was very beautiful. Miss Havisham had raised Estella to be cold and heartless to prevent her (as we later learn) from being stood up at the altar as she had been many . years before. Insensitive Estella took great pleasure in teasing shy Pip and called him coarse and common.- Despite his humiliation, Pip vowed from that day forth that he would become a gentleman and began to engage in schooling from Biddy, who soon became his .. sole confidant. Pip's admiration of Estella, his relationships with Miss Havisham, Joe and Biddy lay the foundations for the events which followed. Miss Havish3In, having sent Estella off to boarding school, dismissed Pip to be apprentice with Joe. This action shattered Pip's sister's expectatic;~ns that Pip might someday inherit the Havisbam fortune. Pip, after returning to his repitious life as blacksmith's apprentice, was approached by a man who of- fered what he had .been longmg · for since his intial meeting with Estella-a chance to become a gentleman. The terms of this offer included that Pip must always retain his nickname and that he must never inquire about the identity of his benefactor until he chose to reveal himself. Although he had no proof; Pip felt that he had conclusive evidence that his benefactor was Miss Havisham and she was grooming him to marry Estella. At this point we see a .great change in Pip as his ex- pectations for himself grow. In the Victorian times, ex- pectations meant not only anticipation but legacy as well. Pip had a chance at this only through ~e inheritance from this strange benefactor because of the social immobility of this class structure. Pip, on his way to London to become a gentleman, gains a false sense of arrogance toward all those he believes are now below him .. This causes him to snub Joe, who used to be his best friend, on many oc- casions.Pip lives in London with Miss Havisham's good-natured nephew Herbert who proceeds to guide Pip in the many ways of a gentleman. Although he quickly adopted Herbert's mannerisms and they became fast friends, Pip kept his arrogant false sen$e of pride and once again snubs Joe with only a momentary pang of guilt. Estella's coming to London served to reinforce Pip's belief that he was . being groomed for her by Miss Havisham. He kept pining after Estella even though it was evident that she did not reciprocate his love. · . New characters were added throughout the show to exemplify the truth .of what Pip had become. Actora.. appeared 'WRUC 89.7. f,m STEREO SCHENECTAD : ._THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ The TOP 8.97 is the only new music countdown with two decimal digits of accuracy. Special note should .go to the Pretty In Pink Soundtrack as it cQntains four songs receiving heavy airplay. No.-Album Name Artist-Label 1-Pretty In PinkSoundtrack 2- Thisls Big Audio Dynamite 3-0nce UponA Time 4-Blind Leading The Naked A&M B.A.D.--Columbia Simple Minds~A&M Violent.Femrnes-slash Icicle Works-Beggars Siouxsie & 'l'he Banshees-Geffen The Bangles.....,Colwnbia Candy Apple Grey---WB The Replacements-Sire 5--Seven Singles Deep 6---12\ Cities In Dust 7-Different Light 8-Husker Dr Switch. 8.97-=-Titn. Top Adds: Fabulous Thunder Birds/Blow Monkeys/Windbreakers ·Programming Notes . Sunday nights are special programming nights on WRUC. At 9:00 tune in for the Bottom Line----a new call in show followed by Sportsline at 9: 45. Also tune in to win copies of The Blind Leading The Naked by the Vialent Femmes. . · -Com · iled b Conrad Tat e fi,Nte,f .. .,. ... '\ ftl<i IZ'•~ /fl'M$ . . ~\'1'4' .:mc.f \' •_r.,.. A'*'\ .o~,kt>-ll<i\'. ..,.,, . . (;.1\I:ISfr.li'l .)•'-\ 6N« i>\\' j/,J'.I( ' ... ,,l, ~(i -:,Afl'>f{ _F~-.tt ( folt- fu:· tr/ Jok\ OJ••~(<'IrJ ,kl• JA1-2 J... fi\\\\''fo'id .JA'l-~ ~·\ t<J'U.'I' {)1610: ,¥.1.<>•&1''\ p;~tu:. f}jZ<#/1'1 from the recesses of the stage to verbally fill the gaps left in the dialogue. This facilitated· an easy understanding of the story and the characters which later proved to be detrimental rather than helpful. Pip experienced a rude awakening when he was con- fronted. by his true benefactor. As Dickens begins to rapidly unravel his carefully· woven web of characters, Pip begins to recogni~e what the social '\the genius of Dickens kept the alidience in surprise .•• \ mobility had done to him. He learned to forgive and .ask forgiveness of his weaknesses which had allowed him to become haughty and arrogant.Realizing he had hurt the ones he had loved the most, Pip cast off his false sense of pride and tried to make amends. This was not the end of the tale as Pip· came to this r¢cognition through romance, intrigue, murder and suspense. The genius of Dickens kept the audience in suspense throughout the show. Just as one thought they had mastered Ute relationships of the characters, Dickens presented \ft>t-r.l ' (,lrd MrllX/<. 1\lt' fN• r p.•r.yl J.., 1\{.·1\ \''~ I fQ-<f tJ,Ji. ... x: .... H\·•t \0~ _\?1101?• (1>1 ,;.q J<..•t ja \U(tCtAI? rP 9'~ .. , ,~rl : *\'\\ /016 O~wi LI•'·S:, [k.-¥1.t .. ... ,. <.' !.>'\ : [lw (~,;, O•d?'i ,h\<!V\•\ y.'.oot··h'\1 ~yJe t {\'t\ f'll·>~ \,. \f l·l ,w.<t (J('\'Wi'S a new one or an added dimension to their relationship. Dickens took the viewer on an emotional rollercoaster first inducing suspense, then having them experience joy and sorrow, shocking them while presenting a tender moment and confusing one as soon as they felt sure of the story. . The cast did a superb job in depicting this intricate novel. To a discerning play viewer who had never experienced the Dickens story on paper, the fact that each actor portrayed more than' one character throughout the course of the play sometimes made it confu$ing. The show was performed with one set and with a few changes in props served as a mansion, humble apartment, river and marsh. The actors skillfully transformed the lone piece of scenery from one to another by forcing the viewer to imagine the details of the surroundings. Although I have presented a very basic and. _simplified version of the story-line, I feel that one ~ust experience the novel to discover the fate of the characters and the brilliance of Dickens. Because this play was so ;impressive, J look forward to reading ·.the novel with great expectations. ..... < :ByMI The sto duringtht they bro~ interestin music the finding $' the band saccumb Bassist drummer eaaght UJ of rock achieved of rock dating E wbile top frustrate' attitudes a solo ca After I Rockertl guitarist cleveri' Rocker~ mostly r late last while, dJ played Honeyilr and tou future), band., 'I Their fi Feels released past Fri1 local cor Albany. Of COl every e1 to addrE the we~ Union Schene Uni Sc~ By· The Orche and fi series Saturt enthu Charl1 the rr conce classi of se' Bee vi bra audie Geori inc 1 was i form: Russt Colle Past1 Orcht

. ' CONCORDIEN.SIS,April17, 1986 Page 15 THE ARTS Brian Setzer Rocks at J.B. •s :By MICKEY BRADLEY The story of the Stray Cats during the past two years since they broke up has been more interesting than most of the music they made. After finally finding success in the States, the band members began to succwnb to life in the fast lane. Bassist Lee Rocker and drurnn1er Jinl ~antonn. · got caught up in the party-life side of rock. (Phantom even achieved one of the hallmarks of rock success-he started dating Britt Ekland.) Mean- wbile top Cat Brian Setzer got frustrated with his friends' new attitudes and took off to pursue a solo career. After he left, Phantom and Rocker teamed up with veteran guitarist Earl Slick to form the cleveriy-titled Phantom, Rocker & Slick, and released a mostly mediocre debut album late last year. Setzer, mean· while, did some session work,. played with Robert Plant's Honey-drippers (he may record and tour with them in the future), and .put together a new band, The· Radiation Ranch. Their first album, The Knife Feels Like Justice, was released last month and this past Friday, the group played a local concert at JB's Theater in Albany. Of course, the first problem every emerging solo artist has to address is what to do about the wealth of material from your old band-the ·stuff which made you popular to begin with and (in Selt~er's case) most of which you also wrote, but from which you are now trying to break away stylistically. Selzer did not shy away from his \other band's\ songs-indeed, the second song in- his set was the Cat's nwnber \Rumble in Brighton.\ But he gave them a new sound that brought them out of the fifties and into the eighties. \Rock This Town\ was a pretty lively tune when the eat's sparse line-up of lead guitar, stand-up bass, and half a drum· kit recorded it; the Radiation Ranch's fleshed-out version with more drums, keyboards, electric bass, and dual lead guitar nearly ex- plodeP, :across the stage in what was .surely one of the show's highlights. Setzer . wisely side- stepped some of the Cats' schlockier stuff (\Sexy & 17,\ \Lonely Summer Nights\) but was brave enough to tackle the Cats' signature song \Stray Cat Strut\ in a solo guitar per- formance that was effective, if a little out of place. Most of the show, though, concentrated on material from the new albwn which is fast, contemporary rock. Setzer has greatly matured as both a singer and a writer; the Cats' main concerns were always fast cars and faster women but Setzer's lyrics now tackle religion, broken relationships, and personal alienation (this a) I.. .... ltl <]) J: 1- Ill I.. 0 ... u 0 I.. Q. ..... 0 >- Ill <]) .... I.. ::::. 0 .u 0 .... 0 J: 0. Union graduate Mark Russo performed a flute solo with the Schenectady Symphony at Proctor's. Union. Graduate performs with Schen~ctady Symphony By LISA MERCUGLIANO ROBERT STOLTZ The Schenectady Symphony Orchestra· presented its fourth and final concert of the 1985-86 series at Proctor's Theatre on Saturday, April 12, 1986. With enthusiasm and finesse, Charles ·Schneider conducted the musical performance. The concert was comprised of three classical pieces, each consisting of several movements. Because of a strong and vibrant introduction, the audience was captivated by George Bezet's Symphony No. 1 in C Major. This alluring mood was intensified by a solo per- formance by flautist, Mark Russo, a graduate of Union College, played ''Concerto Pastoral for Flute and Orchestra. (originally composed for James Galway). The finale, Symphony Fantastique, Op. 14, perhaps, was most exhUerating because of the . gentle and calming tones from the oboe, English horn and clarinet. A touch of forceful intervention came from the tympany out- cries accompanied by shouts from the trumpets, trombones and baritone horns. The violins, violas· and cellos added a powerful background. In the last and final movement, chhnes sounded through the theatre as the brass· section chorused together in triumph. The lower strings added con .. creteness while the violins sang out in a recurring melody. All in all, the performance seemed to be enjoyed by all and proved to be a worthwhile and cultural experience. from a nnan who once wrote a song called ''How Long You Wanna Live, Anyway'?\). It's encouraging ~o see what a profound Eddie Cochran in- fatuation can evolve into, and the rocky edge of the music implies that Setzerwill be worth watching (and listening to) closely over the next few years. The band he has assembled (which included ex-Little Feat :k:eyboardist Chuck Leavell) was tight . and precise, especially in \Three Guys\ and \Barbwire Fence,\ two of the livelier new tunes. This was the group's first American concert (other than Farm Aid), but they worked impressively well together-spontaneous enough to remain exciting and in- teresting, yet polished enough to give the music the drive that it needed. If the new album and Friday's performance are any indication, Seb;er and the Radiation Ranch could have an impressive career ahead of them. The show was opened by The Fabulous Thunderbirds, a four- piece group who has more to do with Cats'-style rockabilly than the Radiation Ranch (in fact, their latest album Tuff Enuff was produced by Dave Edmunds, who produced the best of the Stray Cats' work). Their set, like the new album, was fun, old-style rock 'n' roll with a basic lead guitar-drums- bass-harmonica line-up. Guitarist Jimmy Vaughn (Stevie Ray's older brother) is an exciting and expert guitar player, and the band's punchier > <f) <]) .... I... ::> 0 u 0 .... 0 .c. c. Brian Setzer, former member of Stray Cats, has organized a new band· The Radiation Ranch. numbers-such as . ''Why Get Up?\ and their version of the Stax-Volt classic \Wrap It Up\-were lively and energetic. Their only real problems were the slower numbers; the band can play the blues convincingly enough but singer Kim Wilson-an otherwise strong vocalist-falls short on singing them. Despite this, the T-hirds put on an im- pressive set, a fine introduction for Setzer's band. All in all, this was a well- conceived double bill (originally designed as a triple bill with the Del Lords, who had to cancel) and JB's Theater, for those who've never been there, is a great bar band setting. They have neatly avoided many of the hassles involved with separating the Drinking and the Non-drinking, and have a commitment to booking good talent that will bring such diverse acts to this area as Zebra, rap star LL Cool J, and porn vaudevillian John Valby in the next few weeks. Tickets for this show were given away on WRUC prior to the concert and hopefully, more promotions between the station and JB's will continue in the future. c: 0 <]) 01 I.. ::::. .... If) c: .c. 0 -. >- .0 E 0 J: 0. John Sturgeon presents. ~ . Video 'Art at Union An evening of tapes, a discussion of video · per- formance, and a video in- stallation (with slides), all highlighting recent collabolSltions with video and performance artist Aysha Quinn. · Tapes: Spine Time, 1982, The House of Infiuence, 1985 and Candle.Sa'\t, 1983 Video-Installation: (Tapes and Slides) Charlot Chamber, 1985 by John Sturgeon and Aysha Quinn . Video-Performance: (Tapes and Slides) No Earth-No Earth Station, 1983 by John SturgeQn and Aysha ·Quinn John Sturgeon has been a video, video-performance, and video-installation artist since 1970. He has received numerous grants and awards for his production including; National Endowment for the Arts, \Individual Artists\ grants, John Simon-Guggenheim Fellowship, New York State Council on the Arts, and the New York Foundation for the Arts grants. His work has been shown internationally and is in the permanent collections of numerous musewns including; The Museum of Modem Art and the Los Angeles Museum of Art to name a few. His video work Spine-Time has been aired nationally on USA's cable's 1 'Nightflight\ series. John Sturgeon will present video art at Union College on Tuesday, April 22, 1986 at 8:00 p.m. in the Arts Building, Room 215 with a reception to follow. SponSored by Arts Club

Page 16 CLASSJFIEDS New York Public Interest Research Group (NYPIRG) will have an information table set up for Summer Job Infor- mation in West Dining Hall on Monday, April 21-10:00 a.m.- 4:00p.m. Term pap.ers typed. $1.50-pg. fast, neat ;;md accurate. 374~ 1720. America-Mideast Educati- onal_ and Training Services (AMIDEAST) is pleased to announce the publication of Study and Research Oppor- tunities in the Middle East and North Africa. If you are looking for adventure, serious st~dy, or both, this new guidbook is for · you. It c_ontains over 140 entries, including study abroad or study-tour programs in the region offered by U.S. in- stitutions, Middle Eastern in- stitutions to which Americans can apply directly, and organizations which award financial assistance applicable to study or research in the region. WANTED: 'Behind the walls' College student looking for correspondence from people that care. Serving 10to 20 years for armed robbery. Black hair, brown eyes, 145 lbs., 5'11\ and very lonely!! Friendship inp terests. All responses welcomed and answered. Write to: Mark R. Thompson, 81-C-96,. P.O. Box 149, Attica Correctional Facility, Attica, New York 14011. College Propainters: We hire early ·for good summer pain- ters. $5-7 per hr. Apprenticeship program-we'll train you. The Organized Students. 1-800-628- 5538. HELP WANTED-Furniture store would like some help to ·deliver furniture, window changing and general work pertaining to furniture store·. Someone who can drive a van would help too. Would work around schedule: part-time days and some evenings. Ross Furniture, 823 Eastern Ave., 374-7785. Professional Typing-Bus- iness teacher is ·available to type term papers, , tlteses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close ~o campus, call.any tilne, 399-4656; CLUB NEWS ' . --~~.~ ·_· :· _:· :. NEwM'AN:CLUB Bfs'~ops' E~on~ml~ Pasto~B.l-:-Note change of day Tickets fo·r · Parents W•ekend Dance ·on May 10 at the Ramada Inn on sale at ncket Booth $2 in advance or $3 at door. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 from April17 to Thursday, April ~4 at 7:30 p.m. in 2nd floor Conference Room of Whitaker House, Professor Harry Murray of the Sociology Department will give an introductory talk on the . B-ishops' . Economic Pastoral. For several weeks following he will continue to meet with those who are in- terested in reading and discussing the entire document. All are invited, Please use rear 'door. Newman. Meeting & Social- Monday, April 21 at 8 p.m. in 2nd floor Conference Room of Whitaker House. Please use rear door. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Confirmation Class-Wed- nesday, April23 from 7M9 in Sr. .Joan's Office, Whitaker House for Union College students to be confirmed. Trip to Covenant Hous~Had to 'be cancelled for Saturday, April 19 but has been rescheduled for Wednesday, May 7. We will leave at 7 a.m. Do two hours of inservice work, seee a video and go on a tour of the facility and should be back in Schenectady by six. Contact Sr. Joan if you wish to go. Spring Day of Prayer and Reflection-saturday, May 3, 10-4. Sister Joan and Friar Paul will facilitate a day of prayer and reflection at St. Anthony- on-Hudson for Union College . students and parishioners of St. John's. Lunch will be provided. Please contact Sr. Joan if you are interested. FRE: The fllm committee .presents: 4/18-20 Birdy at 7:30 andlO. Tues 4-22, Magnum Force at 7:30 and 10. Wed. 4-23, The Day the Earth Stood Still at 7, 9, ruld 11. FREE. Tickets will be on sale at Old Chapel for $1. I -- -::::·:::..~: -·---~. PERSONALS - . __ ,. ___ ,. __ _ You're still our little Pi Alpha's, but it won't be much longer! Remember what time the last pledge class got initiated? I have been reminded numerous times that SPRING TERM IS THE MATING SEASON!! Hey you-my toes are cold- where are you when I really need you? C. · SAL: What do· you mean this Israeli terrorist just threw you out of his car in the middle of the night? I ( gotcha ... ) RJ, I LOVE YOU! BP SDT Pledges, whoever said a month was a long time! Amy Dannin- You're starting to glow already! Why sit home- bored Friday night when you could be at the Skellar . with all your friends listening to an AMAZING folk rock band? S.D.O. meeting today, 7:00. ThinkBLUE!! . Co-President . fit\£ ftUIJ(n 11T 1 pA\}I.DS:>N • \ H 1-'lVIM - IH I.S }~ n!Ji- -rtll.&Q f If(£ ALilRM . -r-ovA.Y.I \ TH~ · Plf<.SJ Llr>YAJJ ~ .. E .. IAt,Af.ltto~~ rtl (), &. · oc.iuRREP 1iJ · =a1E:tJ£6TrtVY · /tn:. ia.DrW ~T ONtorJ Q()t..t.-k9 f;., uiH~~. 3 f I !Z~ AL.Al:!M 5 wE:-RE-- s-£1 CJFF-. 1 / f_£A6 A rJ 11/i;;tJ ~f'tJ:E.D; \ 1 wE-L-L-, •• - ur/. • •• ufl · · ••• Ul--f •• ~ · Wlt-U .. J;. / 1 wi{,H I wA5 111 lit Sf~\rf!RT ! I Congratulations, Peas! We're psyched you're .part of the garden. Love that Cuervo, keep smiling. Holly- Love, 'i'he Pods 13 gutters, then a 135 avg! Where's my cryer!s towel? Jeff To lTofe~sor :Phaup, Best wishes for a .speedy recovery. We all ·miss you and we hope that you can come back to Union as. soon as ·possible. Rhonda~ The Union College Young Republicans · Missing your ·black bikini, 80 page outlfues, Pod involvement, bathroom trjps, presence on the . weekends (or lack of)' businesslike wardrobe and overall fun-loving, but oh so snobbish behavior. · Always, Karen, Carolyn Susan and Jennifer Don't you hate it when you wake up with a disloc.ated shotilder. Mary-- Rainbow loye abounds! The sisters Chris and Charlie, Congratulations on your initiation into ·TDChi. · We're psy~hed for you! Love, Chris, Chris and J(:avita · A-- , Thi~time it is me. Happy ''Be Nice to Girlfriend Day.\ -A Clip and save · in the oven you will bake 50 minutes it will take ... and then I'll eat you ... Peela:: We're so glad .you decided not tO\ boycott the other Pe~las. EP and friends Bo Bo Bo Nice: Isn't it so so so .. tt b 'Ill mce no o e p ...... Don't miss this Saturday night, Glenn Yarborough, lead singer of Peter, Paul and Mary, singing on Library Field. ATT- N: Peter. Union University Traveling Club at Union College COME ALONG to SALEM, _ MASSACHUSETTES>FORONL,. Y $19.00 . . The ;bus.·departs 7,~op 1!.-m.Jrom th~ WeUs Pq:rki,n~ I.Ot at Union Col liege. Among the many sights to see and participate in·are: THE WITCH Ml,ISEUM ., THE HOUSE OF THE SEVEN GABLES (witch muse)Jm) THE WHALEWATCI:i THE PEABODY MUSEUM F;or further information and ·to make reservations contact student activi·ties at 370-6118. Please arr,ive 15 minutes early for complimentary juice and doughnuts. · AtJD n-le... T1-II)W ALARM OGGUR~ ~/I 111£- FIRST ;uJo •• oNLY ON£ }11 PtrJ GOOLP 5£:'. 7t/J5 DE-V/OU~ // I ., '•' .. ITS 1-Ht\T /V1 AN /ft. G.) KHAbtlFY !. 1 J PBR~ Happybi it was g1 SHEILA Have an We love floor bQ, Lm To the s· What going tc How abc: Govemo Thank Governt conventi future! Pres. n Congr for an behind~ Tl triF 19! Sig1 offi Ap1 I L

•' _ Circle K'ers, PBRSONALS Thanks for a great year of =!i!iil.!!ii!iilii!i!ii!!!i!!!!!!!!!1!!!!e~!!lli! service! Yqur loyali;y and \\' · support tnade this ye11.r un- forgettable. Convent;lo11 was terrific. I love you. Happy birthday Jackie!!:! Hope it was great! - · Love .~nd Floor Riclullond SHElLA H,, . Have an amazing birtbday! ! .! We love yal ShoUld w~ all go floor b!)Wling to celebrate?? ! ! Love, 2nd Floor RicbiQ.ond To the sexy blonde in :R 113, What color are ycur eyes going to be Saturday night? How about a movie? Governor Jeff, See you soon, ME Thanks for an amazing job as Governor and an awesome convention! Good luck in the future! · · Union College Circle K Pres. Dave, Congratulations! (;et.psyched for an aw:e.some year. We're behind you 100 percent! U~ion College Circle K -Drew MiSs J-Thartks for snarillg l~st ~erm with me. You helpetimake . It great-A no longel\' \lost\ lamb. - PSK & L.S.- Glad to be aboardl Thanks a lot for everything. -A new L,S, · \Bob I'll take Friday M:oming Fruit Market for $500, pl~ase! '' · AM...,.-It's been real! I'rn h.appy if you are. Keep smllin~! _;_A friend. AlllOOl workers .must 111eet by L0019 promptly at 3:3() a.m. There will be 6 trucks aad we'll be doing 5 and 5, Get .psyrcbed!.! . Tova's making omelette~. c, Don't let \the man'\' get you d~wn. - LJ The Biology Club is sponsoring a trip to the Bronx Zoo on April 2.&th, 1986. Total cost of the trip is $17.00. Sign up in the Biology department office. $ & E S 324 by next Thursclay, April 24th. CONCORDIENS!S, Airi/17, 1986 Engl78, One of the most irritating · To all those who knew our things in the world is for · beloved Fag. Fag passed away classmates to start rustling Sunday the 13th. Funeral ser- papers and pens at 9:17, when vices were held in the Rich:. the prof isn't even finished, mond bathroom on the same Sweetie Pie- Happy twenty-first birthday! • · Love, the guy that falls out of 1 lofts. WANTED: A couple of dates . for the • Theta Delta Chi Formal. Preferrably sllort. Hey girls! Don'tforget~no one will eat a burnt muffin! Sue Priscilla (you card) & Betty- ! got cheap ·plane tickets to 0-K~L-A-H-0-M-A! ok? W:anna go? -Sue Priscilla~ I've been trying to get in · touch with yo11 for years! Call . me at 1-BOO~peigleman! Maggs-l love you too! Get .psyched to party Saturday night-and tile rest of the ter- . m!!! Hiiles, H~ncock and Hill- Skellar--Friday night--BE · THERE! JoAnn- Good luck tonight and happy 22nd birthday! Love, Joan, Jennie, Karen day. Your .support for the famiiy at this time of crisis is greatly appreciated. ile liked my dress- He liked it better on the floor! Oh nice! Andre; who loves ya baby! CJM-Hang in there buddy. It • will all be over soon. (Give the . \wop\ my best.) Aileen.,-Howhaveyou been? Do·. you miss glowworm? Kim F.Y.E.D., ConfuCius say, \llappy three- month couple turn happier and happier in future season. (Aah- gooo(JO{) ). \ Much love. To everyone who promised to go see the band that was at my camp this summer. it's 'this Friday night, remember, you PROMISED! ! See ya there. Usa It'sthird week You're already homesick You're swamped witb work And people cheer at war Is the world crazy, or is it just me'? HANG OUT Page 17 nLG- If you still love me, you'll come up and visit. I miss you! Sincerely, Your old roomie How would you like to live in a . .society where avocados made : .guacamole out of Mexican people and stuck Doritos into it? Send replies to box 1751 (another thought provoking question sponsored by the eggplant lovers society). EAT EGG PLANT! ! ! The DLC Corporation in a recently released study has unequivocally exposed a direct cmTelation between eggplant consumption and sexual satisfaction. In response to Women's Week, we're announcing Men's weekend 1986. Included will be men's films, belching seminars, and a pick-up line workshop. It's aoming soon on Apri126-27. James, Last fall in France and now spring in Austria. Now I know .... how to scoop too! ... no, seriously, who studied the wrong language! Che lie be dicll! Always, Kare Jim Bob, Will and Anne: Do it up in Vienna! (or is that ween?) Oh Christ, miss you so much, all we do is sit by the tracks, drinking beers and ·pumping gas between visits to the Mecca (still not open). To be continued next week .... Love, Carolyn, Karen, Susan and Jennifer HALE HOUSE LOWER LOUNGE YJ~\~G~~ ; .HEARTY APPETIZERS LUSCIOUS LIBATIONS 'GREAT ENTERTAINMENT ' TUESDAYS• FRIDAYS • SATURDAYS u.u 21\

Page 18 <llnucnrbiensis SPORTS Lax Loses in O.T. By DOUG LLOYD Last Saturday, the Men's Lacrosse team traveled to snowy Oneonta, N.Y. to face a hapless Oneonta State team and to pick up their fourth win of the season while remaining un- defeated. However, things did not go as planned. and the laxmen wound up losing a heartbreaker. The fh:st period began and ended as many of the other first periods have gone, with Union starting out sluggish and leaving the last three periods to claw , back for the victory. Oneonta scored early to shock the Dutchmen but the shock was· not big enough as Oneonta pumped in two more goals before the Dutchmen could tally for one of their own. The first period. ended with Oneonta on top, 4-2. In the second period Union began its patented comeback but poor defense let Oneonta stay in the game and at the half it was Union down by one, 5-4. Both teams traded goals for the rest of the game with Oneonta up by two for most of the last two periods. Union got ·hot in the fourth period but not quite hot enough as the regulation time came to an end and the teams were knotted at 9·. Union .came out pumped up for the sudden death and im- mediately brought the ball down into their own offensive end. The Dutchmen got some good shots off as both Tony DaRin and Lenny LaMonica hit post's, buttheballjust couldnot find its way into the cage. The ball was cleared after a forced Union pass and withirr seconds an Oneonta St. at- tackman fired one by the toes of goalie John Thorne for the sudden death victory, 10-9. Union now stands at 3-1 going into the. Middlebury game on W ed.nesday while Oneonta St. moves up to 3-3. 1986 UNION COLLEGE LACROSSE STATISTICS 4 ~m_e_ TQ_ti!~D Player Shots Goal& Aests. Points GB HCIIetown John Romeo 37 11 7 18 10 Dexter, NY Tony Darin 22 5 9 14 0 Syracuse, NY Phil Horn H 14 0 u 22 Brightwaters, .NY Andy Ross 9 1 3 4 18 Nyack, NY ·Mike lieisberger 8 2 1 3 20 Bay Sho;>re, NY Bloke Henderson 10 1 2 3 i9 Salt Lake City, UT Pete Argicola 3 1 0 1 11 B.Wford, NY Mike UcceHini 1 1 0 1 3 Troy, NY Lenny LaMonica 10 0 1 1 9 Garden City, NY Jilll Olney 5 0 0 0 5 Rcme, NY Dave DeBeradinis 4 0 0 0 11 ·Rush, NY Chuck Weber l 0 0 0 2 Troy, NY Sean Duffy 1 0 0 0 2 waccabuc, NY s hawn !tor ton i 0 0 0 4 Barre, VT Doug L'loyd 1 0 0 0 I Westpor-t, CT Tim Meyer' 0 0 0 0 7 Norwalk, C'r Greg Leahey 0 0 0 0 7 Rensselaer, NY John McCormick 0 0 0 0 7 P.rinceton, NJ Gary Cornick 0 0 0 0 6 Bound Brook, NJ Mark Leyton 0 0 0 ' 0 ~ Scarsdllle, NY John Thorne 0 0 0 0 4 DeWitt.,, NY Chris Ramsey 0 0 0 0 1 Rochester, NY Totals H 77 .610 Goalie: Gms Shots Save Pet. Goals GAA w L 'lome town John \:'horne 7 84 59 • 702 25 3.6 1 DeW itt, NY Reco<d: 3-l Score by quarters• UNION 6 13 7 10 o--36 Opponents 8 s 7 4 1--25 198& UNION COLLEGE WOMEN'S LACROSSE STATISTICS 4 Game Totals Name Yr. Goals Assts Points Bonnie Faulkner Sr. 12 1 13 Jane Barkin So. 11 1 12 Courtney Lynch Fr. 7 2 9 Lorna Rush forth Sr. 8 0 8 Debbie Hod in So. 5 1 6 Elaine Pick Jr. 4 1 5 Rebecca Clemente Sr. 4 0 4 Anne Rosenau Fr. 3 0 3 Cheryl Washburn Sr. 2 0 2 Rate Hamilton Fr. 2 0 2 Sarah Shaw So. 2 0 2 Barb Brady Jr. 2 0 2 Erin Sheehan Fr. 1 0 1 Carolyn Zutell So. 1 0 1 Stacey Rosenfield Fr. 1 0 1 Andree Lebel So. 1 0 1 Scoring by halves: SHOTS: Union: 153 Union 32 34-- 66 Opponents 13 11-- 24 Ruggers Look Promising By WENDY ZIMMERMAN Last chilly Saturday morning, the Union Women's Rugby team gave theit· all in their first game of the season against Platt- sburgh. The game was played in two halves with the A. team playing the first half, and the B. · team playin~ the seco~d. The score after the first half was 3;;(), Union, thanks to a penalty kick made by veteran .player Gretchen Becker. Things began moving quicker the second half after Plattsburgh's captain scored two tries and their wing, one, in addition to a successful free kick, resulting in an ending score of Platt- sburgh 14, Union 3. (Cathy Tremante, Who in addition to other Union players, was 1 ent to Plattsburgh due to the a ,ence of some ot their team. ··ored one Plattsburgh try.) This season, only their third, the Women's Rugby team consists of roughly 15 veteran players and 20 new players. Co- Captain Maureen O'Day's outlook on the future success of the team is good. O'Day sep- cifically commented on Patty Richards, recruited from the softball team who \Plays -ex- tremely well for a new player,\ as well as referring to Cathy Hawkes who ''played a very heads up game.\ The team will play Colgate next weekend, and Hamilton Parents Weekend in addition to ''shot at the tour- nament\ on the 26th, as ex- plained by Chris Sheridan in his articie last week. Although the team has suffered a loss we're sure they will bounce back for what looks to be a very promising season. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 OMEN'S. SPORTS Crew Catches Winning Tradtion BySPORTSSTAFF six other crews. The Women's Union Crew put in a very NQvice eight, although a yQung strong showing this past team, held their own and shows Saturqay at the Skidmore promise for the upcomin~ Invitational. Eight clubs were season. · represented at this regatta: The Men's JV ·Eight, although Vassar, Albany, OARS, Al'IllY, · racing in the varsity division,· Marist, Colgate,. Skidmore, and gave the OARS racing club, of Union. The Women's Varsity which Brian McGuirk, crew Eight cleaned up in their alumni, i$ a ~ember, quite a division, finishing boat lengths challenge. This boat is made lip ahead of their opponents. The of Ted Eveleth, Dave Cascoyne, crew is comprised of Anne Steve. TUlevish, Matt Hopkins, Maboussin (Capt.), Olivia Bruce Szymanski, Tony Car- Listzwan, Karen St. Germain sello, Chris Holmes, John (Capt.}, Colleen Quinn, Karen Delconte, and Chuck Blotnic as Stash, Georgia Sullivan, Lisa coxzwain. Four of these rowers Cia*, Ann•Marie Loftus, and also raced a four which placed coxswain Kim Silvers. This is a second after a very strong last promising start for a com- 500 meters, demonstrating a petitive season. Four members strong desire to win as well as of the women's eight pulled the ab~ity ot come together together a four just for the when It counts. The Men's occasion. After qualifyin~ for · Heavy Weight Novice Crew put the finals, they managed tQ nost in a solid showing ahd their size out ~ Marist crew at the finiSh, wiJt definitely work to their placmg them second ahead of advantage as they compete throughout .t:he spting. The Men,s. Varsity Eight travelled to Ithaca this past weekend 1c. face what has become a rival, namely Ithaca College. As predicted, it was an e~tremely close race with Ithaca comrng out on top this time by .mere seconds. However, the men will have ample oppo-rtunity. to avenge this loss throUghout the season. The Men~s Program will be travelling t() Worcester this Saturday wlrile the women head to Ithaca f(lr the Ithaca Invitational .on Sunday. · The Crew Program is quickly becoming lmown, not only for its rapid gro\Vth, but also for its successes as well. A large part of this has been the support of the school and other private donations. At this -time, tire program would like to thank Mrs. KelleFforher donations in the memory of John H. Keller. Lacrosse .. Red Hot By WENDY ALLEN Women's Lacrosse increased their number of wins to five this week to make their record five wins and no losses. The first win,. on Wednesday, was at home at the expense of Russell Sage by a score of 24-1. The Dutchwomen dominated throughout. the entire game. On Friday, the women went on the road to Rochester. The Rochester team proved to be their greatest challenge as of yet, and had a three goal lead twice in the game. However, Union scored four conSecutive goals to go ahead with about three minutes leftto play. The held on to the lead to win the game by a score .of 10 to 9. From Rochester, the Dutchwomen went to Wells. Union proved their versatility once again. Althougn the field was more suited for mad wrestling than lacrosse, tlie Dutchwomen slid into a victory of 14 to. ·7. The lacrosse team gamed their last victory oftlleweek, on Tuesday, at home against Castleton. Union, witb ,no doubt, dominated the ga;me and finished with a score of 18 to 3. Women's lacrosse heads into a tough week with a game this weekend against Arniy at West Point. Track Running Well By JULIE HAI:.PERN The women's track team opened their outdoor season on Wednesday April 9th in a home meet against Hamilton and Middlebury. Despite scoring 1n every event they entered, the team still finished third. Union was f<Jrced to forfeit five events due to the team's lack in number. Regardless ·of the overall acore, the women performed well in their in~ dividual events. In the field events, Union took charge with freshman Laurie Anderson scoring a first in the long jump and a second in the triple jump, with a jump of 14 '4%\ and 30'3% \ respec- tively. In the shot put, freshman Stephanie Woodward achieved a first with a throw of 10.57 meters. In the javelin, Union took second, third and fourth. Senior Karen Krolikowski threw her javelin 32.76 meters, junior Jen Dilorio threw hers 28.67 meters and Woodward threw hers 17.78 meters. And in thedisc, Dilorio finished second with a throw of 25.29 meters and Woodward finished fourth with a throw of 19.39 meters. In the running events, junior Julie Halpern finished in first place in the 400 meter hurdles r with a time of 1:12.9. Halpern · also took third in the 100meters with a time Clf 1:07.4. In the 800 meters Uniom scored a third and a fourth, with jUnior Amy walsh and freslunan Lyn Erdman running times of 2:39.7 and 2:41.5, respectively. And to complete tile evening, the ffiile relay tearn finished a close second. The team r:m a 4:39.0 led by HalJlern, followed by Anderson, wh() passed the baton to Erdman, who . gave it to sophomore Jenny Lee. This Satur-day the team travels to Albany State where they meet 11p against SUNY Albany and SUNY Bjnghamton. SPORTSLINE RETURNS -WRUC89.7 ........ Tuesday - 11:30 Thursday .. 11:30 Sunday - 9:45 - ... c Fat La< selE oft! cap i:n tl the 'Whi Eor wit! get1 gpl:l weE Wel att1 Eor I be UIJ we UI! mt aft t()f ' of I Jol Bi1 Fr: otl1 las th~ hai l leB Ro tr} pa: ret fai e:xj • 1 re( pel ah aft by SO] Spl to to mi of l>a raJ pu 11· str IDl 1 d:a WE ag

... Page 18 <nnncnroirnsts SPORTS Lax Loses in O.T. By DOUG LLOYD Last Saturday, the Men's Lacrosse team traveled to snowy Oneonta, N.Y. to face a hapless Oneonta State team and to pick up their f01:uih win of the season while remaining un- defeated. However, things did Hot go as planned and the laxmen wound up losing a heart breaker. The first period began and ended as many of the other ftrst periods have gone, with Union starting out sluggish .and leaving the last three periods to claw back for the victory. Oneonta scored early to shock the Dutchmen but the shock -was not big enough as Oneonta pumped in two more goals before the Dutchmen could tally for one of their own. The first period ended with Oneonta on top, 4-2. In the second period Union began its patented comeback but poor defense let Oneonta stay in the game and at the half it was Union down by one, 5-4. Both teams traded goals for the rest of the game with Oneonta up by two for most of the last two periods. Union got hot in the fourth period but not quite hot enough as the regulation time came to an end and the teams were knotted at 9. Union .came out pumped up for the sudden death and im- mediately brought the ball down into their own offensive end. The Dutchmen got some good shots off as both Tony DaRin and Lenny LaMomica hit post's, but the baH just could not find its way into the cage. The ball was cleared after a forced Union pass and within seconds an Oneonta St. at- tackman fired one by the toes of goalie John Thorne for the sudden death victory, 10-9. Union now stands at 3-1 going into the Middlebury game on Wednesday while Oneonta St. moves up to 3-3. 1986 UNION COLLEGE LACROSSE STATISTICS 4 Game Totals Player Shots Goals Aaats. Points GB nome town John Romeo 37 ll 7 18 10 Dexter, NY Tony Darin 22 5o 9 14 0 Syracuse, NY Ph1l Horn H 14 0 14 22 BrLghtwaters, NY Andy Ross 9 l 3 4 18 Nyack, NY Mike Weisberger B 2 1 J 20 Bay Shore, NY Blake Henderson 10 l 2 J 19 Salt Lake City, UT Pete Arq icola 3 l. 0 I 11 B<>dford, NY M1k.e UccellinL 1 1 0 I 3 Troy, NY Lenny LaMon1ca 10 0 1 I 9 Garden C1.ty, NY J 1m Olney s 0 0 0 5 Rome, NY Dave DeBerad1.n1s 4 0 0 0 11 Rush, NY Chuck Weber I 0 0 0 2 Troy 1 NY Sean Duffy I 0 0 0 2 Waccabuc, NY Shawn Morton I 0 0 0 4 Barre, VT Doug Lloyd I 0 0 0 I Westport, CT Tim Meyer 0 0 0 0 7 NorwaUc, CT Greg Leahey 0 0 0 0 7 Rensselaer, NY John McCormlck 0 0 0 0 7 Princeton, NJ Gary Corn1ck 0 0 0 0 6 Bound Brook, NJ Mark Leyton 0 0 0 0 4 Scarsdale, NY John Thorne 0 0 0 0 4 Delhtt, NY Chr 1 s Ramsey 0 0 0 0 I Rochester, NY Totals 47 17 .610 Goal1e: Gms Shots Save Pet. Goals GAA w L T-lometown John \\horne 7 84 59 .102 25 l. 6 1 OeW1 t t, NY Record: ] -1 Score by quartera: UNION 6 13 10 o--36 Opponent a a 5 4 1--25 1986 UNION COLLEGE WOMEN'S LACROSSE STATISTICS 4 Game Totals Name Yr. Goals Assts Points Bonnie Faulkner Jane Barkin Courtney Lynch Lorna Rushforth Debbie Hodin Elaine Pick Rebecca Clemente Anne Rosenau Cheryl Washburn !<ate Hamtlton Sarah Shaw Barb Brady F. r1 n Sheehan Carolyn Zutell Stacey Rosent1eld Andree Lebel Scoring by halves: Union 32 Opponents 13 Sr. So. Fr. Sr. So. Jr. Sr. Fr. Sr. Fr. So. Jr. Fr. So. Fr. So. 34-- 66 11-- 2 4 12 1 13 11 1 12 7 2 9 8 0 B 5 1 6 4 1 5 4 0 4 3 0 3 2 0 2 2 0 2 2 0 2 2 0 2 1 0 1 1 0 l 1 0 1 1 0 1 SHOTS : Union : 1 '> 3 Ruggers Look Promising ByWENDYZ~ERMAN Last chilly Saturday morning, the Union Women's Rugby team gave their all in their first game of the season against Platt- sburgh. The game was played in two halves with the A. team playing the first half, and the B. · team playing the second. The score after the first half was 3-0, Union, thanks to a penalty kick made by veteran player Gretchen Becker. Things began moving quicker the second half after Plattsburgh's captain scored two tries and their wing, one, in addition to a successful free kick, resulting in an ending score of Platt- sburgh 14, Union 3. (Cathy Tremante, who in additi0n to other Union players, was · ent to Plattsburgh due to the <1 ence of some of their team. ·ored one Plattsburgh try.) This season, only their third, the Women's Rugby team consists of roughly 15 veteran players and 20 new players. Co- Captain Maureen O'Day' s outlook on the future success of the team is good. O'Day sep- cifically commented on Patty Richards, recruited from the softball team who \Plays ex- tremely well for a new player,\ as well as referring to Cathy Hawkes who \played a very heads up game.\ The team will play Colgate next weekend, and Hamilton Parents Weekend in addition to \shot at the tour- nament\ on the 26th, as ex- plainE'd by Chris Sheridan in his articte last week. Although the team has suffered a loss we're sure they will bounce back for what looks to he a very promising season. CONCORD!ENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 OMEN'S SPORTS Crew Catches Winning Tradtion By SPORTS STAFF Union Grew put tn a very strong showing this past Saturday at the Skidmore l!nvitational. Eight clubs were represented at this regatta: Vassar, Albany, OARS, Army, Marist, Colgate, Skidmore, and Union. The Women's Varsity Eight cleaned up in their division, finishing boat lengths ahead of their opponents. 'The crew is comprised of Arn1e Maboussin (Capt.), Olivia Listzwan, Karen St. Germain (Capt.), Colleen Quinn, Karen Stash, Georgia Sullivam, Lisa Clark, Ann-Marie Loftus, and coxswain Kim Silvers. This is a promising start for a com- petitive season. Four members of the women's eight pulled together a four just for the occasion. After qualifying for the finals, they managed to nost out a Marist crew at the finish, placing tllem second ahead of six other crews. The Women's Novice eight, although a young team, held their own and shows promise for the upcoming season. The Men's JV Eight, alUurugh racing in the varsity division, gave the OARS racing club, of which Brian McGuirk, crew alurrmi, is a member, quite a challenge. This boat is made up of Ted Eveleth, Dave Cascoyne, Steve Tulevish, Matt Hopkins, Bruce Szymanski, Tony Car- sene, Chris Holmes, John Delconte, and Chuck Blotnic as coxzwain. Four of these rowers also raced a four which placed second after a very strong last 500 meters, demonstrating a strong desire to win as well as the ability ot come together when it counts. The Men's Heavy Weight Novice Crew put in a solid showing ahd their size will definitely work to their advantage as they compete throughout the spring. The Men's Varsity Eight travelled to Ithaca this past weekend to face what has become a rival, namely Ithaca College. As predicted, it was an extremely close race with Ithaca coming out on top this time by mere seconds. However, the men will have ample opportunity to avenge this loss throughout the season. The Men's Program will be travelling to Worcester this Saturday while the women head to Ithaca for the Ithaca Invitational on Sunday. · The Crew Program is quickly becoming known, not only for its rapid growth, but also for its successes as well. A large part of this has been the support of the school and other private donations. At this time, the program would like to thank Mrs. Keller for her donations in the memory of John H. Keller. Lacrosse - Red Hot By WENDY ALLEN Women's Lacrosse increased their number of wins to five this week to make their record five wins and no losses. The first win, on Wednesday, was at home at the expense of Russell Sage by a score of 24-1. The Dutchwomen dominated throughout the entire game. On Friday, the women went on the road to Rochester. The Rochester team proved ta be their greatest challenge as of yet, and had a three goal lead twice in the game. However, Union scored four consecutive goals to go ahead with about three minutes left to play. The held on to the lead to win the game by a score of 10 to 9. From Rochester, the Dutchwomen went to Wells. Union proved their versatility once again. Although the field was more suited for mud wrestling than lacrosse, the Dutchwomen slid into a victory of 14 to 7. The lacrosse team gained their last victory of the week, on Tuesday, at home against Castleton. Union, with no doubt, dominated the game and finished with a score of 18 to 3. Women's lacrosse heads into a tough week with a game this weekend against Army at West Point. Track Running Well By JULIE HALPERN The women's track team opened their outdoor season on Wednesday April 9th in a home meet against Hamilton and Middlebury. Despite scoring in every event they entered, the team still finished third. Union was forced to forfeit five events due to the team's lack in number. Regardless of the overall acore, the women performed well in their in- dividual events. In the field events, Union took charge with freshman Laurie Anderson s~oring a first in the long jump and a second in the triple jump, with a jump of 14'4%\ and 30'3%\ respec- tively. In the shot put, freshman Stephanie Woodward achieved a first with a throw of 10.57 meters. In the javelin, Union took second, third and fourth. Senior Karen Krolikowski threw her javelin 32.76 meters, junior Jen Dilorio threw hers 28.67 meters and Woodward threw hers 17.78 meters. And in the disc, Diiorio finished second with a throw of 25.29 meters and Woodward finished fourth with a throw of 19.39 meters. In the running events, junior Julie Halpern finished in first place in the 400 meter hurdles r with a time of 1:12.9. Halpern also took third in the 100 meters with a time of 1:07.4. In the 800 meters Union scored a third and a fourth, with junior Amy Walsh and freshman Lyn Erdman running times of 2:39.7 and 2:41.5, respectively. And to complete the evening, the mile relay team finished a close second. The team ran a 4:39.0 led by Halpern, followed by Anderson, who passed the baton to Erdman, who gave it to sophomore Jenny Lee. This Saturday the team travels to Albany State where they meet up against SUNY Albany and SUNY Binghamton. SPORTSLINE RETURNS -WRUC 89.7- tuesday - 11 :30 Thursday - 11 :30 Sunday - 9:45 c Fa1 Lac selE oft! ca~ int the whi Bm wit get go~ wee We att~ Bo1 ] be U( W€ Ur rn1 aft tor of Jo! Bi Fr otl Ia~ thl ha 1 lee: Rc tr~ pa re1 fai ex re1 pe ah af1 by so sp to to m: of ba ra pu 11· stJ m da WI ag

ight past has san this be this The for fits part of tire in slid The last ton. and 3. a this pern 800 and and to 39.0 by ton to CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 Athlete. of the.Week ByD()lJG-LASLLOYD Congrat11lations to Bonnie Faulkne1' oi the Women\s Lacrosse . ,team for being selected as ·this week's Athlete of the Week. :B()nnie, a senior co- caption, bas been a major force i:n the greats11ccess thus far for the Women:\s Lacrosse team, which has a record of 4-0, Eonnie Ieads.the team in goals 'With 12 andp()ints with 13 while: getting a 1>-ig chunk of those goals last Saturday. Last weekend, t~e Dutchmen faced Wells College and the strong attack <Jf &onnie Faulkner; Eortnie SC!OJ:ed five · goals en ByCHRffi SHERIDAN If Bingllam1()n is supposed to be the seco~rl best team in the Upstate to11mament next weekend. then it appears Union'~ .men's rugby . team must be ran!ted higher than that after last Satlll'day's 13-0 vic- t()ry agaill~ the SUNY team. \We !lorrtiJUlted every aspect of the gam!!!,\ senior co-captain John FI\iske felt. After seeing Binghamt~rt~s performance, Friske note<! that among a few others it '\Vlill be mainly Siena, last seas()n's state champions, that the 1Jn!()n ruggers would have to worry about. Union .pulled . out to a quick lead agairls:t :Binghamton when Ron AmidoiJI blistered into the try-zone after a nice run and pass by Tim Riley. The score remained +41 when Tim Hopkins failed to con\7ert the try for an extra two '(JOints. . A whll!!! later, Hopkins redeemed birnself by hitting a penalty ld.ck, putting Union ahead, 7.:0. L.ater in the game, after a continlling dominance by Uhi()tt's serum and line, sophomore Jodi Perkins sprintecli.IJ t<> the try-zone, only to have his try called back 4ue to an offsid~s penalty. Not five minutes l~ter, after a nice run of his own,. .\midon pitched the hall back t~ Perkins, who again ran int() tlle try zone-this time putting U11Lon up by a score of 11-·0. DavE &lee converted the straight-()11 kick to put the final rnargb1 at 13-0. Union's sec()nd game of the day, did!l~t go as well for the weary rug~ers. The final score against Vesleyan University route to a 14-7 win in just the first half. She was given the secpnd half off by Coach Mart;y Morrison. Miss· Faulkner captained the soccer team this past fall and received the MVP award in both .soccer and lacrosse. Coming into this season Bonnie has scored 64 goals in her lacrosse career while leading the team with goals the .past two years With 29 and 27 respectively. Prior to Union, Bonnie attended Wilbraham & Munson Academy and has since become a Biology major at Union. Bonnie is a sister at Delta Delta Delta and hails from · Palmer . ' read 12-6 with Wesleyan on t_op, Tied at \zero after the first half, Union let in two trys fairly close to each other to put Wesleyan ahead, 12-0. However, as is with the Union tradition, they never gave up. With about one minute left in the game, Amidon in~ tercepted a Wesleyan pass and sprinted 70 yards for Union's first try-outrumiing all sorts of defensemen. Blee converted for two extra but time ran out on Union and when the· final whistle blew, the score was 12-6. . Forthe f~rst part of the game, the serum-downs were dominated by the much larger Wesleyan pack. Their size and the fact that it was their first game of the day and Union's second led them to dominate in the beginning. However, Union came back with a second wind · late in the game and started to dominate the serum-downs ·gaining advantage in the game. liowever, as was said before, time ran out . \The line worked excellent,\ co-captain Riley said. \We looked really good. We worked a lot of different guys, we're in Upstate form already.\ Riley, having his usual great game, was taken out in the beginning of the Wesleyan game after being cleated in the lower leg': Although he won't be hack for this weekend's game against Oneonta, he will .be ready for the Upstates. Riley's effort was helped by, among others, Amidon, and Steve Delano-who both put in excellent efforts. Scrununers Perkins, and senior Massachusetts. Congratlllat- ions to Bonnie FaUlkner on her award -and for what looks to be another banner year for her and the Women's Lacrosse team. Jeff Albrecht also showed they can run with the ball. Union's killer B's weren't quite as successful as tilE A. team. Their first game was hard fought against Binghamton but ended in a 0.() tie. The second game turned (JUt a little better, however, Unio11 fell short to Wesleyan's B-team, 9-6. Wesleyan jumped out ahead, 3· 0, when their kicker llit a penalty kick. Union kept the pressure up and after Pat Dicierbo missed a penalty kick of his own, Josh Derechin earned the HeadsmUp-Play of the game award when he dashed int() the try-zone, landed on the ball and put four points up on the scoreboard for the Union ruggers. Dicierbo converted the extra point to put histeam 11p 6- 3 but Union couldn't hold m to the lead. \We let up right after the try,\ Derechin said. \We lost our intensity. They came back and scored.\ One of Wesleyan's scrwn- mers got a hold of the ball and ran it in for the winning try of the game to end it at 9-6 wit:il the the Killer B's on the losing ·end. \We played well,\ felt Torn Muzzinigro. \For our first game we were in good shape. But by the time we started playing our last game, for some of us it was our third of the day (because some had played in the A game) and we started to lose it (stamina).\ Union travels this weeke11d t() Oneonta; one step closer tCl the Upstate Rugby title. Tim ValaGhovich undefeated on the mound with 2-0 record. Page 19 <lrnucnr~iensis .SPORTS Charl:ie Slotnlk Looking at~sports The Union football~ hockey, basketball, and soccer teams have all had tremendous suc- cess in the past few years. But, there is another Union team on the verge of achieving national recognition: the Union College baseball team. The ballplayers at Union, unlike the other athletes at Union, play their hOme games off-campus at Centr~l Park ·in Schenectady, and thus do not receive much exposure. Very quietly, the Union Baseball program has irilproved in the last three years. In 1983, the team finished with a record of 4 wins and lllosses. In 1984 they had a winning season, and won 9 games and lost 6. Last year, the Dutchmen won the most games in school history, 16, While losing only 9. And this year under new coach, Gary Reynolds, Union is off to a fast 6·1 start. New Coach The Union baseball program under former coach John Audino, and present coach Gary Reynolds has been transformed from an average Division 3 program to an excellent program, despite the limitations of Union's academic standards. One key to Union's success this year has been Coach Reynolds' emphasis on defense. \I watched a lot of games last year, and I knew this year I would have a great hitting team, adl'!quate pitching, and good team speed, but that the defense could be improved.\ Reynolds' approach to defense has worked as the Dutchmen have committed fewer errors, and turned more double plays than last year. Against Albany St., Union turned a remarkable five double plays. Although Reynolds, a football coaclt, was never officially affiliated with Union baseball, he hasfollowed and watched th(· baseball team consistently ir the past three seasons. Mm·eover, many of the baseba!l players are also on the football team as· well, and therefore Reynolds knew them, which eliminated many of the problems a new coach can often have. Stllid Hittmg & Pitching The Union baseball team is experiencing few problems this year as nine players are batting above .300, and are averaging seven runs a game. The surm prise ()f this year's team is Ron Jakubczyk, who did not play last year. Ron is 3 for 7 this year at the· plate, and two of his hits have been home runs. Alex Rita,. a major league prospect, is batting .304, and continues to come through in clutch situations. · On the mound, Rich Bartosch is 2'-0 as is Tim ValachOvich. The two have combined for 23 strikeouts in just 25 innings. The outlook for the pitching staff ·appears bright as Ken Horan has emerged as a competent starter. Also, Ted Cannon has overeome shoulder trouble, and should add depth to an already solid pitching staff. Senior Tri-Captain Tom Barrett, who is tied for the team lead in hits, believes the team attitude is different this year than in years past. \This year we lm.ow we can win ballgames. We finally have confidence in ourselves.\ The Union baseball team is wirllling, and in contention for a post-~eason playoff spot in either the E.C.A.C.'s, or N.C.A.A.'s. For this is one team at UniQn that has trUly ex- perienced a rebirth. DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK Aprill7 ·April 23 THURSDAY 4/lT Baseball vs. RPI Golf at Skidmore lnvy Men's Tr.ack at BC·Relays Women's Lacrosse a!'RPI Softball vs. Lehman Men's Track at BC Relays FRIDAY 4/lB SATURDAY 4/1~ Baseball at Norwich (2) Women's Lacrosse at Army A & B Softball vs. Skidmore Men's track at BC Relays Women's Track at Albany, Binghamton Men's Tennis at Binghamton Men'$ Lacrosse vs. Siena Golf at Hadwick MONDAY4/21 Women's Lacrosse vs. Middlebury Softball vs, Siena Men's Tennisvs. RPI· B·aseball at Colgate Men's Lacrosse at Williams Softball at oneonta TUESDAY, 4122 WEDNESDAY 4/23 3:00p.m. lO:OOa.m. 4:00p.m. 3:30p.m. l:OOp.m. 2:00·p.m. ll:OOa.m. 7:00p.m. l:OOp.m. 3:30p.m. 3:30p.m 3:00p.m. 3 OOp.m 4 OOp.m. 3 30p.m.

ight past has san this be this The for r its part of the in slid The last ton. and 3. a this pern 800 and alsh and to 39.0 by ton to CONCORDIENSIS, April/7, 1986 Athl:ete of the Week By DOUGLAS LLOYD Congratulations to Bonnie Faulkner of the Women's Lacrosse team for being selected as this week's Athlete of the Week. Bonnie, a senior ce- caption, has been a major force in the great success thus far for the Women's Lacrosse team, which has a record of 4-0 . Bonnie leads the team in goals with 12 and points with 13 while getting a big chunk of those goals last Saturday. Last weekend, the Dutchmen faced Wells College and the strong attack of B<mnie Faulkner. Bonnie scored five goals en By CHRIS SHERIDAN If Binghamton is supposed to be the second best team in the Upstate tournament next weekend, then it appears Union's men's rugby team must be ranked higher than that after last Saturday's 13-0 vic- tory against the SUNY team. \We dominated every aspect of the game,\ senior co-captain John Friske felt. After seeing Binghamton's performance, Friske noted that among a few others it will be mainly Siena, last season's siate champions, that the Union ruggers would have to worry about. Union pulled out to a quick lead against Binghamton when Ron Amidon blistered into the try-zone after a nice run and pass by Tim Riley. The score remained 4-0 when Tim Hopkins failed to convert the try for an extra two points. A while later, Hopkins redeemed himself by hitting a penalty kick, putting Union ahead, 7-0. Later in the game, after a continuing dominance by Union's serum and line, sophomore Jodi Perkins sprinted in to the try-zone, only to have his try called back due to an offsides penalty. Not five minutes later, after a nice run of his own, Amidon pitched the ball back to Perkins, who again ran into the try zone-this time putting Union up by a score of 11-0. Dave Blee converted the straight-on kick to put the final margin at 13-0. Union's second game of the day, didn't go as well for the weary ruggers. The final score against Wesleyan University (ij '0 0 :J .,_ (/) > .0 ~ .c a. \~_\ ·- ' .... I , . route to a 14-7 win in just the first half. She was given the second half off by Coach Marty Morrison. Miss Faulkner captained the soccer team this past fall and received the MVP award in both soccer and lacrosse. Coming into thi:s season Bonnie has scored 64 goals in her lacrosse career while leading the team with goals the past two years with 29 and 27 respectively. Prior to Union, Bonnie attended Wilbraham & Munson Academy and has since become a Biology major at Union. Bonnie is a sister at Delta Delta Delta and hails from Palmer, read 12-6 with Wesleyan on top. Tied at zero after the first half, Union let in two trys fairly close to each other to put Wesleyan ahead, 12-0. However, as is with the Union tradition, they never gave up. With about one minute left in the game, Amidon in- tercepted a Wesleyan pass and sprinted 70 yards for Union's first try-outrunning all sorts of defensernen. Blee converted for two extra but time ran out on Union and when the final whistle blew, the score was 12-6. For the first part of the game, the serum-downs were dominated by the much larger Wesleyan pack. Their size and the fact that it was their first game of the day and Union's second led them to dominate in the beginning. However, Union came back with a second wind · late in the game and started to dominate the serum-downs gaining advantage in the game. However, as was said before, time ran out . \The line worked excellent,\ co-captain Riley said. \We looked really good. We worked a lot of different guys, we're in Upstate form already.\ Riley, having his usual great game, was taken out in the beginning of the Wesleyan game after being cleated in the lower leg'. Although he won't be back for this weekend's game against Oneonta, he will be ready for the Upstates. Riley's effort was helped by, among others, Amidon, and Steve Delano-who both put in excellent efforts. Scrummers Perkins, and senior Massachusetts. Congratulat- ions to Bonnie Faulkner on her award and for what looks to be another banner year for :her and the Women's Lacrosse team. Bonnie Faulkner e ItS Jeff Albrecht also showed they can rllll with the ball. Union's killer B's weren't quite as successful as the A. team. Their first game was hard fought against Binghamton but ended in a 0-0 tie. The second game tllmed out a little better, however, Union fell short to Wesleyan's B-team, 9-6. Wesleyan jumped out ahead, 3- 0, when their kicker hit a penalty kick. Union kept the pressure up and after Pat Dicierbo missed a penalty kick of his own, Josh Derechin earned the Heads-Up-Play of the game award when he dashed into the try-zone, landed on the ball and put four points up on the scoreboard for the Union ruggers. Dicierbo converted the extra point to put his team up 6- 3 but Union couldn't hold on to the lead. \We let up right after the try,\ Derechin said. \We lost our intensity. They came back and scored.\ One of Wesleyan's scrum- mers got a hold of the ball and ran it in for the winning try of the game to end it at 9-6 with the the Killer B's on the losing end. \We played well,\ felt Tom Muzzinigro. \For our first game we were in good shape. But by the time we started playing our last game, for some of us it was our third of the day (because some had played in the A game) and we started to lose it (stamina).\ Union travels this weekend to Oneonta, one step closer to the Upstate Rugby title. . ~ .. Tim Valachovich undefeated on the mound with 2-0 record. Page 19 C!tnucnrbttnsis .SPORTS Cha:rlie Slotnlk Looking at Sports The Union football, hockey, basketball, and soccer teams have all had tremendous sue~ cess in the past few years. But, there is another Union team on the verge of achieving national recognition: the Union College bas~ball team. The ballplayers at Union, unlike the other athletes at Union, play their home games off-campus at Central Park in Schenectady, and thus do not receive much exposure. Very quietly, the Union Baseball program has improved in the last three years. In 1983, the team finished with a record of 4 wins and 11 losses. In 1984 they had a winning season, and won 9 games and lost 6. Last year, the Dutchmen won the most games in school history, 16, while losing only 9. And this year under new coach, Gary Reynolds, Union is off to a fast 6-1 start. New Coach The Union baseball program under former coach John Audino, and present coach Gary Reynolds has been transformed from an average Division 3 program to an excellent program, despite the limitations of Union's academic standards. One key to Union's success this year has been Coach Reynolds' emphasis on defense. \I watched a lot of games last year, and I knew this year I would have a great hitting team, ad~quate pitching, and good team speed, but that the defense could be improved.\ Reynolds' approach to defense has worked as the Dutchmen have committed fewer errors, and turned more double plays than last year. Against Albany St., Union turned a remarkable five double plays. Although Reynolds, a football coach, was never officially affiliated with Union baseball, he has followed and watched tht· baseball team consistently \!' the past three seasons. Moreover, many of the baseba!l players are also on the footbal: team as well, and therefore Reynolds knew them, which eliminated many of the problems a new coach can often have. Solid Hitting & Pitching The Union baseball team is experiencing few problems this year as nine players are batting above .300, and are averaging seven runs a game. The sur- prise of this year's team is Ron Jakubczyk, who did not play last year. Ron is 3 for 7 this year at the plate, and two of his hits have been home runs. Alex Rita, a major league prospect, is batting .304, and continues to come through in clutch situations. On the mound, Rich Bartosch is 2-0 as is Tim Valachovich. The two have combined for 23 strikeouts in just 25 innings. The outlook for the pitching staff appears bright as Ken Horan has emerged as a competent starter. Also, Ted Cannon has overcome shoulder trouble, and should add depth to an already solid pitching staff. Senior Tri-Captain Tom Barrett, who is tied for the team lead in hits, believes the team attitude is different this year than in years past. \This year we know we can win ballgames. We finally have confidence in ourselves.\ The Union baseball team is winning, and in contention for a post-season playoff spot in either the E.C.A.C.'s, or N .C.A.A. 's. For this is one team at Union that has truly ex- perienced a rebirth. ' $ARt4E1'$C()~EliOArttb SA,S<f;ElAL:l.. {6-fl R!\l8 UNtON13 UN1¢N7 !JN'lON 7 ONION a UNIONS st. Lawrence 6 UNION l7 UNWN~ UNION 11) I,JN!ON ll on~tal& AlballyS castl:eton m . Castle-too IU tiNtON l$ UNJONl<i UlilQNtll tf.I'I10N14 UNION~H .· l'lt>mltton itt t.IN tOWitl · f!Jamithi!l~ Middlebury 54 .. Skktm(we1 U'NIOIII!l Baseball vs. RPI .• ... Golf at Skidmore lnvy Men's Track at BC Relays Women's Lacrosse at R PI Softba II vs. Lehman Men's Track at BC Relays Baseball at Norwich {2) . MSN~S tRACK O+ll DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK April17 -April23 THURSDAY 4/17 FRIDAY4/18 SATURDAY 4/19 Women's Lacrosse at Army A & B Softball vs. Skidmore Men's Track at BC Relays Women's Track at Albany, Binghamton Men's Tennis at Binghamton Men's Lacrosse vs. Siena Golf at Hartwick MONDAY 4121 Women's Lacrosse vs. Middlebury Softball vs. Siena Men's Tennis vs. RPI Baseball at Colgate Men's Lacrosse at Williams Softball at Oneonta TUESDAY, 4/22 WEONESDAY4/23 Alba~yl Hartwick~ OMI>f!t.aS C)neontal JJNI·PN l st. La-wr~nceo Ratflest~r 3 Gen~o6 Alba~y~ UNION HOT} UN!Ol\I.Q UNlONO UNION3 Skidm()l'* 1 RIJS!}ell Sage 1 Rochester9 WeJl$A& $1 R.f>l Sl UN\0Nt8 Mitfdle))l;jry 43 UN!ON39 UNIION:W UNION2 Hamilton l 3:00p.m lO:OOa.m 4:00p.m 3·JOp.m l.OOpm 2 OOp m 11 ooa m 7 00 p.m 1 OOp m 3:30.p m 3 30p m 3.00p m 3 OOp m 4 OOp.m 3 30p.m

• CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 ·\0 ::r s '0 r:r \< !a c 0 0. !!?.. .... Safe At Home . • • SeeStory Below. Rugby Shuts-out Binghamton 13•0see ·- Story Page19. Aprill7, 1986 Dutchmen Bats Pace Union to 6-1 Start By SID SCHENECTADY, N.Y.-Last year the Union College baseball team set a school record for wins in a season when it won 16 of its 25 games. With only two players missing from the squad, this year's team had high hopes for another successful cam- paign. The Dutchmen have exceeded expectations thus far by posting six wins in their first seven games. Nt'wCoach \I thought we had a chance to be a very good team, but I never dreamed we'd get off to this good of a start,\ smiled rookie head coach Gary Reynolds. The Dutchmen opened the season with a five-game win streak. After losing the first game of a twinbill last Sunday at St. Lawrence (6-1 ), Union bounced back to take the second game, 17~. The Garnet opened the campaign by defeating RPI, 13-8, and then beat another Capital District rival, Albany State, 7-1. Union swept a doubleheader 'from Oneonta, 8- 5, and 5-3, before the split with St. Lawrence. Thus far the Dutchmen have been able to combine good pitching (a team earned run average of 3.68) with solid hitting (.287). Meanwhile, the defense has also been very good as Union has given up just nine unearned runs. On the flip side, the Dutchmen have been able to take advantage of their op- ponents mistakes as 15 of the squad's 61 runs have been unearned. \I'm very pleased with every phase of the game,\ said Reynolds. \The guys are hustling, picking each other up, and working very hard every game.\ Last Thursday, Union used a six-run fourth to defeat Hart- wick, 7-3. The Dutchmen, in fact, scored four runs in the eighth and had only one out before the Warriors decided to call the game. Ron Jakubczyk highlighted the fourth with a two-run single. In the opening game of a doubleheader against Oneonta, on Saturday, junior Alex Rita drove in two runs with a double and single and also scored twice. In the nitecap, freshman Bill Weidman made his collegiate pitching debut five- and-a-third strong innings. He gave up four hits and just one earned run. Junior Steve Alves picked up the win in relief. After a four hour bus ride to Canton, New York Sunday morning the Dutchmen had to face a tough St. Lawrence team. St. Lawrence, which won two from Union to open the season last year, snapped the win streak in the opener. but fell to an U·run fifth inning in the second game. Union scored nine of the 11 rrins after two were out. Markopoulos drove in four runs with a pair of singles while Barrett plated three runners with a double, single, and Support Union Sports Men's Track Impressive Last Wednesday afternoon the Union men's track team split a tri-meet with Hamilton and Middlebury at home under cloudy and cool skies. Hamilton prevailed in the meet just four points ahead of the Dutchmen by a score of 82-7843. Despite nine first place finishes for Union, five for the Colonials and five for Middlebury, the depth of the men from Hamilton won out in the end. Remillard Trlp1e Winner Senior Scott Remillard was again a triple winner for the Dutchmen as he easily won the hammer throw, shot put, and discus. His throws of 54.47m, 14.11m, and 43.73m respectivelY were good enough to pick up fifteen points toward the team's total. Todd Allen was a double winner in the lOOm and 200m dashes. He had winning times of 11.2 seconds and 23.1 seconds respectively. Other winners for the Dut- chmen were Chris O'Donnell in the 3000m steeple chase (9:37.0), Rob Mohlar in the 400m (51.1), and Jeff Barker in the 800m. (1.58.4). The 4x400 relay team took first place honors with a tiine of 3:29.9 to round out Union's five point tallies. Union Takes FomFJrns This past Saturday afternoon the Dutchmen hosted the Union Relays here at our facility. Due to a light turn out the Union tracksters took all but four· of the first place finishes. Bob Stenard won the 5000m event in a fast time of 16:07.7 and Scott Remillard continued to roll along in the discus and the shot put with a win in each with throws of 42,08m and 13.7m respectively. Bill Craig was a double winner in the long and triple jump with distances of 20 ft. 3 inches and 38 ft. 7 incl:)es respectively. Other individUal winners were Wayne Lacy (pole vault) and Dan Vaughn (110 high hurdles). Each of Union's relay teams were victorious in their respectl'v:e races. sacrifice fly. Rita, who walked three times and reached on an error, scored three times while Pete Cohan drov~ in two runs with a double and single. J.unior Rich Bartosch went the distance while giving up five . hits and striking out seven. c: ] c 1 Un he; st (A Afi Bu Co H(l Re del pel sci , Co thl th: co G3 Ce . cu sci of DE CE ffii wi of te: be pi PI W4 Oil (!) \C 0 .2 <./) >- ..0 ~ .c a ~ ( i l

Q) u 0 :::> - If) ' >- .0 0 .,_ 0 r:. 0. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/17, 1986 .,,~ ~ / ~ '<I:< ... ~ '·, \~ ·::-- ,..._,. \C ::r 0 0 0\ \< IJl ..... c 0 0. ro Safe At Home .. • See Story Below. Rugby Shuts-out Binghamton 13-0see · Story Page 19. Dutchmen Bats Pace Union to 6-1 Start By SID SCHENECTADY, N.Y.-Last year the Union College baseball team set a school record for wins in a season when it won 16 of its 25 games. With only two players missing from the squad. this year's team had high hopes for another successful cam- paign. The Dutchmen have exceeded expectations thus far by posting six wins in their first seven games. New Coach \I thought we had a chance to be a very good team, but I never dreamed we'd get off to this good of a start.\ smiled rookie head coach Gary Reynolds. The Dutchmen opened the season with a five-game win streak. After losing the first game of a twinbill last Sunday at St. Lawrence (6-1 ), Union bounced back to take the second game, 17-6. The Garnet opened the campaign by defeating RPI, 13-8, and then beat another Capital District rival, Albany State, 7-1. Union swept a doubleheader from Oneonta, 8- 5, and 5-3, before the split with St. Lawrence. Thus far the Dutchmen have been able to combine good pitching (a team earned run average of 3.68) with solid hitting ( .287). Meanwhile, the defense has also been very good as Union has given up just nine unearned rtms. On the flip side, the Dutchmen have been able to take advantage of their op- ponents mistakes as 15 of the squad's 61 runs have been unearned. \I'm very pleased with every phase of the game,\ said Reynolds. \The guys are hustling, picking each other up, and working very hard every game.\ J.ast Thursdav, Union used a six-run fourth to defeat Hart- wick, 7-3. The Dutchmen, in fact, scored four runs in the eighth and had only one out before the Warriors decided to call the game. Ron Jakubczyk highlighted the fourth with a two-run single. In the opening game of a doubleheader against Oneonta, on Saturday, junior Alex Rita drove in two runs with a double and single and also scored twice. In the nitecap, freshman Bill Weidman made his collegiate pitching debut five- and-a-third strong innings. He gave up four hits and just one earned run. Junior Steve Alves picked up the win in relief. After a four hour bus ride to Canton, New York Sunday morning the Dutchmen had to face a tough St. Lawrence team. St. Lawrence, which won two fr()m Union to open the season last year, snapped the win streak in the opener, but fell to an 11-run fifth inning in the second game. Union scored nine of the 11 runs after two were sacrifice fly. Rita, who walked with a double and single. Junior out. Markopoulos drove in four three times and reached on an Rich Bartosch went the runs with a pair of singles while error, scored three times while distance while giving up five Barrett plated three runners Pete Cohan drove in two runs hits and striking out seven. with a double, single, and ' 1986 COLLEGE: BASEBALL S'l'A'l.'lS'I'lCS UNION 7 G~me Total~ MaillE GP j\1} R a 2b Jb as BB X SB-SSA RBl AVG Ron .lakubcs:yk 5 7 3 3 0 {) 2 4 2 o- o 6 .429 Dave ~ndetson !) u 3 ~ 0 0 0 s 1 J.... 3 4 .395 TOll\ Sauett . 6 19 7 1 l 0 0 7 3 l- 1 6 .36(1 aan Klinger 6 21 7 7 1 1 0 4 4 2- 4 1 . ~3) Glehn !(aU s u 4 4. 0 (} 0 5 1 3- 3 z • J33 l'tl!m Horan 3 9 3 3 1 0 0 :) 1 2~ 2 5 .l3c3 Traclt Valacbov ic l 3 {) 1 0 G 0 1 2 e- 0 1 • 333 hlu Ra.ta 7 23 lt} 7 l l 0 5 1 2- 4 3 .304 ~· P~t~ Conan 7 ;<!0 ~ & 3 () 0 2 G o- 0 ~ • 3Q{) Andy Markopoulos 6 19 i 5 () 0 1 6 {) o- t) 1 • 263 Tim O't.eery 1 4 l 1 0 {} 0 {) 0 1- 1 {) • 25'0 Jim Reynolds 4 6 1 2 I} 0 0 2 4 o- ~ {J • 250 scott <ft>ldsmHh l 5 .) l q Q 0 • l o- 0 l • 20·0 B~inhard Walk~r 6 :n e 4 (l () 0 3 4 1- l l .16,2 Steve Alves 5 17 2 2 1 Q () 3 1 4- 5 2 .ne TO'l'AJ..S 7 201 61 sa . ~. 2 3 54 3$ 19\-'24' 49\ ~287 opponents 7 J:91 -!2 ·•· 40 8 0 1 30 25 2(h)2· 26 ' .209 '--::,• ··~ .. ,; Naill~ G GS CG II' li R atr w;.x...:s· · sfu\ . ·•'!' ~::O.w:-, Ell so . '''''\NM .. •.•'f•'(•-~ •,.··· c ·-' Y·.~·,-,- ··.1·····: ~ ..,., .. _,,,. ,_, St~ve- Alves 1 v 0 0 l. 2 0 D ·'() 3 · ·2 .. ·1'-0\'li ··· ·th·I'Hl Sc~tt,.})cedman l 0 (l.. ,.1,. · .. () (l ... 11 1 3, .... ~.,.ll\\$ .·,O.lHL.· .. .., .. ,.n· PllV41: G,i.px:~anQ f g g . .. . .. 1 ... o .. ~- ... , ~· o .. , ,J}, F•·-9':':':lb~J,, •. ,..,,Jt,,.go ....... , , . · i!~1~~iraLn '1 1 tr · \\;;l · ~ · 's~ · 1 • ~· '~\···<::t~a·&\'''\¥:·38· .. , ... :··\\'';'···'\>f· ·'-''''\'. • ··. · ·•:·• · · • · ···'til!liiV!ifl\'tttbo\1$¢ · ··t :':··· lt- '•\\:·.(): • •<::· •·'•1-J!;VQ . •·:·• • ~·7· :·•····' ·46:·•~:·. ···<·WJ!'.i,\<\&V'\f:/.Mf'hl'Jh%'''\~1}f'i)'\'lkl' wu:;• • .. :.• '' ·c· .. ,. kf'<' ·· · •:•.keJ~:·:'HO .. t••nq:. ·•:· ··:. • · .. :· .. , Al.:•·' it •.... , .... :,--~,··:·· 7lU,k··.;-• .... ),.3··~;: . . ::·1\; ?'ilir, ;c,.,.,.,.. •,.a .. :• '· i::Ntlkt.;•·· .t!ll\i$11.>:• :·>··· ·· · •··.• to· :?:•::\. t · · · '·<',w · .:. · ·i· •• ·,:; .. ·'ft:~~tJ .. , ~]t,p~~b;., .; '·' ,,, .. ll.+n•;#.., ... \: .. \(');;,.,, .:N~~iMf.).,.,q,J.l't::x\ :!.!h,.,..,,j:},;.;;L, ... *\~\·'···fb; Support Union Sports Men's Track Impressive Last Wednesday afternoon the Union men's track team split a tri-rneet with Hamilton and Middlebury at horne under cloudy and cool skies. Hamilton prevailed in the meet just four points ahead of the Dutchmen by a score of 82-78-43. Despite nine first place finishes for Union, five for the Colonials and five for Middlebury, the depth of the men from Hamilton won out in the end. Remillard Triple Winner Senior Scott Remillard was again a triple winner for the Dutchmen as he easily won the hammer throw, shot put, and discus. His throws of 54.47m, 14.11m, and43.73m respectively were good enough to pick up fifteen points toward the team's total. Todd Allen was a double winner in the lOOm and 200m dashes. He had winning times of 11.2 seconds and 23.1 seconds respectively. Other winners for the Dut- chmen were Chris O'Donnell in the 3000m steeple chase (9:37.0), Rob Mohlar in the 400m ( 51.1), and Jeff Barker in the 800m. (1.58.4). The 4x400 relay team took first place honors with a time of 3:29.9 to round out Union's five point tallies. Union Takes Four Firsts This past Saturday afternoon the Dutchmen hosted the Union Relays here at our facility. Due to a light turn out the Union tracksters took all but four of the first place finishes. Bob Stenard won the 5000m event in a fast time of 16:07.7 and Scott Remillard continued to roll along in the discus and the shot put with a win in each with throws of 42.08m and 13.7m respectively. Bill Craig was a double winner in the long and triple jump with distances of 20 ft. 3 inches and 38 ft. 7 inches respectively. Other individual winners were Wayne Lacy (pole vault) and Dan Vaughn (110 high hurdles). Each of Union's relay teams wel'e victorious in their respecti~e races. Bob Stenar'=' crosses finish line. Qj '0 0 :::> ...... II) >- .!l E 0 .c Q. c c Ur he st (A Af Bt Cc H~ R1 de pt: sc C< th th CC G· c; Ct S( of D 0 m w of te b~ p: p: w 01 - a. 't: c - ..:: tJ' ) _( c: + c ..t: c

CXV, No.19 Board of Trustees Meets College Proposals Outlined Budget t7 .86% By DAVID GULLIVER The :Soard of Trustees of will be used to e2rpand Union met on April 10-11 and classrooms and to create ad- heard reports from tb~ ... six ditional offices. The College will standing committees also spend $20,000 on the en~ (Academic. Affairs, Student trance to Jackson's Gardens, Affairs, Buildings and Grounds, primarily on the reconstruction Budget and Audit, Finance, and of the pathways into tpe garden, College Resources) and the Ad in order to improve ac- Hoc ·Committee on Social cessibility and overall ap- Responsibility. These reports · pearance. delineate much of what to ex- • The Trustees. also learned of pect at Upion . in the coming some developments concerning school year 1986-87. Union property. The Nott The Buildings and Grounds Memorial received a 1877 NYS Assemblyman William Paxon opposes use of mandatory fees for student politics. Committee desgribed several of . · nomination to be placed on the the projects in progress over National Registry of Historic this summer. Of primary Landmarks from the National concern are the Alumni Parks Service, a division of the Gymnasium and the College Department of the Interior. The Center. The gymnasium is nomination was d11e to the currently three months ahead of architectural signifieance of the schedule and its expe-cted date building and the· fame of the of completion is sometime in Potter brothers, the architects. December of 1986. The College The Gotlib residence, a house Center, however, is two to three · in the General Electric plot; months behind schedule and was purchased by the College will not be completed until April last year. The trustees .N.Y.S.Assembly to Redress Student Politics Controversy· of 1987. _ ...... \· .. _\_. , \· ... .diacussed, . plans..... .. to ,u~e :the .. The new $1.9 million building as a guest house for telecommunications system is prominent visiti!lg lecturers being installed on campus at ~he and professor~. . . present time. NYNEX, the Dean of Res1~ence Ltfe David primary contractor, ...began Wood met wtth -~he Student work in the academic buildings A.ffairs Comm~ttee. a_nd on March 24 and · fhe system du~cussed the nousmg s1tuation · on campus. He informed the Trustees that his report on housing recommendations would be.released in May. Wood gave his. opinion that in general the campus was in much better <!) \C 0 · condition than it was in when he arrived. Andy George, Senior Trustee should be in the dormitories and completed by August of 1986. In addition, the system w.ill in- clude eight emergency telephones to be placed at · various points on campus. With the new system, students will pay only a $13 \switch-on\ fee for telephone service at the beginning of the year, far less than the. present charge. The system will be tied in to the computer center and run by the computer with an independent backup computer in case the first system fails. The Schaffer Library will undergo further renovations over the summer. The Phi Beta Kappa Room will be remodeled to have a \more dignified and pleasant appearance, like the Milano Lounge,\ according to Senior Student Trustee Andrew George. The work will include the construction of a staircase and the moVing of the Bigelow collection from its current location on the second floor to the Phi Beta Kappa Room. The funding for the project comes from the Schaffer Foundation. · The lounge area in the Social Sciences Building was con- cluded to be \not functional\ and will be removed. The space He also described the con- tinuation of the renovation of West College dormitory. Now that the exterior work has been completed, renovations of the rooms and lounges wil! begin this summer. The final stage of the work will be the purchase of new furniture for the dormitory and that will be performed during the summer of 1987. During that period of time, the other dormitories will be under the normal maintenance plan. After the conclusion of the West College project, all the dormitories will be placed on a \renovation cycle\ in Which they will be improved on a consistent schedule. The Trustees Academic Affairs Committee approved a list of three appointments to the Electrical Eng:ineering Department. The additional professors, it is hoped, will alleViate the problems in the teaching of lab .classes that have occmTed this year. The Trustees also made tenurable Professor Clifford Brown of Political Science. The committee heard the report of Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea. He announced that · as of spring term, there are four . new faculty members on campus and there are plans to hire an additional n.ine to twelve more faculty members but only · over the course of the next three years. . D'Andrea also spoke of the Continued on page 5 ByPAULSCHOP One of the biggest con- . troversies today on campuses across America involves the use of mandatory student activity fees to fund political organizations whose views may run counter to the views of many students, if not to the views of a majority of the students on campus. These fees must be paid by every student, who will be denied his or her transcript if he or she fails to pay this fee. While this practice does not occur at Union, many schools in New York State are affected b_y this controversy. These schools include the larger SUNYs, like SUNY Albany, as well as some private schools such as Syracuse. An attempt has been made to warP, ending this controversy. Assemblyman William Paxon, a Republican from Wyoming County, which is just east of Buffalo, has introduced a bill which would prohibit the use of any mandatory student activity fees from being used to fund political organizations. Paxon is currently the ranking minority membei· on the Assembly Social Services Committee. The bill Assembly number 7238, is currently pending before the Assembly Education Com- mittee. The most prominent organization that would be affected by this proposed legislation is the New York Public Interest Research Group ( NYPIRG). NYPIRG is a political organization composed mainly of very liberal students~ It has chapters on 17 SUNY campuses a.s well as at Syracuse and Pratt. Cornell has an independent PIRG, called Cornell PIRG. I visited the headquarters of the SUNY Albany NYPIRG chapter. While there I talked with some of the students in- volved in this organization. One of these students was a young coed who discussed her up- coming political activities for the next two weeks. These in- cluded participating in an· eight day hunger strike to protest Reagan's effort to fund the Contras, as well as attending the April 18 protest at the capitol, against what she ter- med Reagan's \invasion\ of Libya. NYPIRG is very well funded. According to Stacey Young, the SUNY Albany NYPIRG Project Coordinator, her chapter has a budget of $50,000 per year. At · Albany, every student must pay a $3 mandatory activity fee every semester. This $6 annual surcharge, multiplied by 40,000 undergraduates, produces a fund of almost ~4 of a million dollars. NYPIRG's annual budget is almost one fifth of this amount. Therefore every Albany student must pay ap- proximately $1.20 to fund NYPIRG annually. Only an infinitesimal fraction of Albany students are mem- bers of NYPIRq. Young approximated their active membership to number bet- . ween 50 to 60 students. Remember SUNY Albany has over 40,000 undergraduates. Almost $1,000 per year is allocated for each student in- volved in NYPIRG to fund his or . her NYPIRG activities. NYPIRG's budget allows it to hire paid professional staff members. One of these people is Young, who is not a SUNY Continued on page 2 April24, 1986 Student C.Oncerns About Libya Perspectives Expressed By JOY RUNYON The following is an informal interview with Greg Spam- pin~o '89 and audience par- ticipation by Clarissa McFarlan '88. With the inflammatory relations between the United States and Libya becoming more strained every day, everyone has widening con- cerns about the state of the country and the state of the world as they relate to this crisis. In this interview, students voice their opinions and concerns about the Libyan crisis, and their unique per- spectives on the implications of this crisis. JOY RUNYON: 'l'here are a lot oftheories about the political effects of what's going on in Libya, but I don't know that there's a lot of talk about the moral effects. What do you think about the morals of the situation, especially with us l;lombinE! them. how that fits into the United States' idealism? GREG SPAMPINATO: Tactically, I think that the attack was more than warranted, from a militaristic point of view. They're going around purposely and publicly admittirig that they're trying to kill innocent Americans, not even armies or anything, for the sake of terrorism. They're publicly admitting Americans; they are killing other . people, too. So tactically, it was warranted. They proved it was Libya training terrorists. But morally? There were a lot of innocent I .ibyans killed. These innocent people should be protected, yes. You could say we have a right to bomb military installations, but a lot of these militarv installations are in heavily populated areas. The major theory about what happened to that one fighter that's missing-they tied that into the fact that there were places that weren't targets that got bombed. They think that that faulty plane bombed them: buildings with innocent people, a playground, and a few other things. You can say that it was an accident, but what if it wasn't? What if they were just side effects of the bomb? I find it hard to argue against the people's arguments for bomb- ing-but I don't agree with it. If I was in that position, I don't know what I would have done. There was a lot of pressure Continued on page 3

.e 0 .J::. Q. CXV, N:o.l9 Board of Trustees Meets College Proposals Outlined Budget 't7 .86% By DAVID GULLIVER The Board of Trustees of Union met on April 1()..11 and heard reports from the _six standing cemmittees (Academic Affairs, Student Affairs, Buildings and Grounds, Budget and Audit, FinaNce, and College Resources) and the Ad Hoc Committee on Social Responsibility. These reports delineate much of what to ex- pect at Union in the coming school year 1986-87. The Buildings and Grounds Committee described several of the projects in progress over this summer. Of primary concern are the Alumni Gymnasium and the College Center. The gymnasium is currently three months ahead of schedule and its expected date of completion is sometime in December of 1986. The College Center, however, is two to three months behind schedule and will not be completed until April of 1987. The new $1.9 million telecommunications system is being installed on campus at the present time. NYNEX, the primary contractor, began work in the academic buildings on March 24 and the system - Q) \0 0 ::> .... r.fl >- _c 0 +- 0 ..c a. Andy George, Senior Trustee should be in the dormitories and completed by August of 1986. In addition, the system will in- clude eight ew ergency telephones to be placed at various points on campus. With the new system, students will pay only a $13 \switch-on\ fee for telephone service at the beginning of the year, far less than the present charge. The system will be tied in to the computer center and run by the computer with an independent backup computer in case the first system fails. The Schaffer Library will undergo further renovations over the summer. The Phi Beta Kappa Room will be remodeled to have a \more dignified and pleasant appearance, like the Milano Lounge,\ according to Senior Student Trustee Andrew George. The work will include the construction of a staircase and the moving of the Bigelow collection from its current location on the second floor to the Phi Beta Kappa Room. The funding for the project comes from the Schaffer Foundation. The lounge area in the Social Sciences Building was con- cluded to be \not functional\ and will be removed. The space will be used to expand classrooms and to create ad- ditional offices. The College will also spend $20,000 on the en- trance to Jackson's Gardens, primarily on the reconstruction of the pathways into the garden, in order to improve ac- cessibility and overall ap- pearance. The Trustees also learned of some developments concerning Union property. The Nott Memorial received a nomination to be placed on the National Registry of Historic Landmarks from the National Parks Service, a division of the Department of the Interior. The nomination was due to the architectural significance of the building and the fame of the Potter brothers, the architects. The Gotlib residence, a house in the General Electric plot, was purchased by the College last year. The trustees discussed plans to use the building as a guest house for prominent visiting lecturers and professors. Dean of Residence Life David Wood met with the Student Affairs Committee and discussed the housing situation on campus. He informed the Trustees that his report on housing recommendations would be released in May. Wood gave his opinion that in general the campus was in much better condition than it was in when he arrived. He also described the con- tinuation of the renovation of West College dormitory. Now that the exterior work has been completed, renovations of the rooms and lounges will begin this summer. The final stage of the work will be the purchase of new furniture for the dormitory and that will be performed during the summer of 1987. During that period of time, the other dormitories will be under the normal maintenance plan. After the conclusion of the West College project, all the dormitories will be placed on a \renovation cycle\ in which they will be improved on a consistent schedule. The Trustees Academic Affairs Committee approved a list of three appointments to the Electrical Engineering Department. The additional professors, it is hoped, will alleviate the problems in the teaching of lab classes that have occurred this year. The Trustees also made tenurable Professor Clifford Brown of Political Science. The committee heard the report of Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea. He announced that as of spring term, there are four new faculty members on campus and there are plans to hire an additional nine to twelve more faculty members but only over the course.of the next three years. D'Andrea also spoke of the Continued on page 5 lege 1877 Schene~IY~New York >- _c E t1l <1'1 <1'1 <( t/) >- z ... 0 >- <1'1 Q) +- 1.... ::> 0 u 0 - 0 .J::. a. NYS Assemblyman William 'Paxon opposes use of mandatory fees for student politics. N.Y.S.Assembly to Redress Student Politics Controversy ByPAULSCHOP One of the biggest con- troversies today on campases across America involves the use of mandatory student activity fees to fund political organizations whose views may run counter to the views of many students, if not to the views of a majority of the students on campus. These fees must be paid by every student, who will be denied his or her transcript if he or she fails to pay this fee. While this practice does not occur at Union, many schools in New York State are affected by this controversy. These schools include the lar-ger SUNYs, like SUNY Albany, as well as some private sch()ols such as Syracuse. An attempt has been made toward ending this controversy. Assemblyman William Paxon, a Republican from Wyoming County, which is just east of Buffalo, has introduced a bill which would prohibit the use of any mandatory student activity fees from being used to fund political organizations. Paxon is currently the ranking minority member on the Assembly Social Services Committee. The bill Assembly number 7238, is currently pending before the Assembly Education Com- mittee. The most prominent the next two weeks. These in- cluded participating in an eight day hunger strike to protest Reagan's effort to fund the Contras, as well as attending the April 18 protest at the capitol, against what she ter- med Reagan's \invasion\ of Libya. NYPIRG is very well funded. According to Stacey Young, the SUNY Albany NYPIRG Project Coordinator, her chapter has a budget of $50,000 per year. At Albany, every student must pay a $3 mandatory activity fee every semester. This $6 annual sr.rcharge, multiplied by 40,000 undergraduates, produces a fund of almost 1 4 of a million dollars. NYPIRG's annual budget is almost one fifth of this amount. Therefore every Albany student must pay ap- proximately $1.20 to fund NYPIRG annually. Only an infinitesimal fraction of Albany students are mem- bers of NYPIRG. Young approximated their active membership to nwnber bet- ween 50 to 60 students. Remember SUNY Albany has over 40,000 undergraduates. Almost $1,000 per year is allocated for each student in- volved in NYPIRG to fund his or her NYPIRG activities. NYPIRG's budget allows it to hire paid professional staff members. One of these people is Young, who is not a SUNY Continued on page 2 April24, 1986 Student Concerns About Libya Perspectives Expressed By JOY RUNYON The following is an informal interview with Greg Spam- pinato '89 and audience par- ticipation by Clarissa McFarlan '88. With the inflammatory relations between the United States and Libya becoming more strained every day, everyone has widening con- cerns :tbout the state of the country and the state of the world as they relate tu this crisis. In this interview, students voice their opinions and concerns about the Libyan crisis, and their unique per- spectives on the implications of this crisis . JOY RUNYON: There are a lot of theories about the political effects of what's going on in Libya, but I don't know that there's a lot of talk about the moral effects. What do you think about the morals of the situation, especially with us bombing them, how that fits into the United States' idealism? GREG SPAMPINATO: Tactically, I think that the attack was more than warranted, from a militaristic point of view. They're going around purposely and publicly admitting that they're trying to kill innocent Americans, not even armies or anything, for the sake of terrorism. They're publicly admitting Americans; they are killing other people, too. So tactically, it was warranted. They proved it was Libya training terrorists. But morally? There were a lot of innocent I .ibyans killed. These innocent people should be protected, yes. You could say we have a right to bomh military installations. but a lot of these militarv installations are in heavily populated areas. The major theory about what happened to that one fighter that's missing-they tied that into the fact that there were places that weren't targets that got bon1bed. They think that that faulty plane bombed them: buildings with innocent people, a playground, and a few other things. You can say that it was an accident, but what if it wasn't? What if they were just side effects of the bomb'? I find it hard to argue against the people's arguments for bomb- ing-but I don't agree with it. If I was in that position, I don't know what I would have done. There was a lot of pressure Continued on page 3 organization that would be affected by this proposed legislation is the New York Public Interest Research Group (NYPIRG). NYPIRG is a political organization composed mainly of very liberal students. It has chapters on 17 SUNY campuses as well as at Syracuse and Pratt. Cornell has an independent PIRG, called Cornell PIRG. I visited the headquarters of the SUNY Albany NYPIRG chapter. While there I talked with some of the students in- volved in this organization. One of these students was a young coed who discussed her up- coming political activities for See Professor Murray's ·response to the U.S. b0111bing of Libya .. ppa,ge3-

... Page.2 CONCORDlENSI~AprH2~1~6 Terms Abroad Makes Local News By DAVID MARIN Terms Abroad Director Professor William Thomas . almost made a star of himself on network television news due to a misinterpretation by the local Associated Press office. Under the impression that Union was offering some kind of course in anti-terrorism, the AP office sent the news over the wire. It was not long before a half dozen news organizations had phoned Union's Terms Abroad Office for information about the revolutionary measUre. Among those calling were ABC, CBS, NBC, and a Washington teleVision station. . 'Tilomas explained that wbat · Unic()n was doing was in· mrporating into its orientati()n • program for foreign travelers S()nte common-sense advice on • how to best avoid danger()US · situations overseas. The advice incllldes avoiding night spots frequented by American set· vicemen, staying away from ti<:ket offices of American airlinEs, trying not to stand out as Americans, and traveling as quickly as possible through airport security, among others. 11Je misunderstanding began wllen a reporter from the Albauy Times Union 11eported tile correct story a ·little over two weeks. AP picked up the information and passe<l it along the wires in altered .form. which led to the calls from the net- works and others. Local ChannelS did interview Thomas and aired the accurate story on its six o'clock news on April8. In addition to the calls from news organizations, the office received a number of calls from parents of children heading overseas from other schools who were interested in· the syllabus for the non~existent course, from alumni interested in the new program, and others, as well. Violence Erupts on Campuses at South Africa Protests (CPS) Anti-aparthied protests escalated· into angry, sometimes violent, con- frontations on campuses across the nation last week as student protestors clashed with both authorities and right-wing student groups. In what may have been the worst incident, dozens of students and campus police were injured and a total of 150 people arrested during two pre- dawn raids of a shantytown built on the University of California campus in Berkeley. \The police were extremely brutal,\ says .John Hurley, a Berkeley junior. \A lot of my friends got their faces cut by police Slamming them down on the pavement,\ he says of the first of two violent confrontations. Heretofore a mannered, businesslike protest movement, the anti-apartheid demon- strations of last week more closely resembled the beated, tense fracases of the sixties, when campus opinion was polarized and opposing groups stopped speaking to each other. While anti-apartheid protests abruptly erupted on scores of campuses last April, they were unopposed by other students, administrators and local of· ficials. Last spring at Berkeley, for example, several municipal judges refused to preside at the trials of students · arres1ed during protests of the univer· sity's investments in firms that do business in segregationist South Africa. This year, campus police conducted a one a.m. raid on a \sh~ntytown\ built to sym· bolize the plight of South Africa's black citizens, tearing down the structures and upr()()ting some 200 students ca~nping in the area. 'I'IIe plywood and cardboard strmctures were a fire hazard, declared Chancellor Ira Ht!yman, who said protestors . were \inviting force.\ \People barricaded them· selves inside the shanties,\ Ht~r-ley recounts. · \They wrapped their arms around . stllff, and just held on.\ OthEr students, wanting to avoid arrest, left the shanties, but then laid down in front of the buses brought in to cart off their C()mpatriots. Sixty-one students were arrested that I1ight for ref!ISing to leave the shanties. Violen~e continued on Friday, · whe11 police efforts to remove thE rebuilt protest encampment reslllted in an egg, bottle and rock: throwing riot that left 20 sttttlents and police injured and 90 protestors arrested. N~tjonwide, such protests INTERESTED IN UNION'S FUTURE? Think about running for the Student Forum Positions A vai Ia ble President Vice- President for A.drninistration Vice- President for Fil')ance Junior Student Trustee Academic Affairs Cou!lcil Rep 3 Senior Representatives 3 .Junior Representa fives 3 Sophomore Representatives Elections- May 23rd More information to follow Just start thinking seemed to peak <Juring the laSt week of March and first week of April, dubbed National Weeks of Action by the American Committee on Africa. At Cornell, students occupied the president's office, unfurling a banner proclaiming the start of the two weeks of action. At Penn, about 120 students marched across campus carrying coffins draped in black to honor the South African blacks killed in Sharpeville while protesting \pass laws\ in 1960. University of North Carolina- Chapel Hill apartheid protestors found themselves in a tense standoff with the College Republicans and the Students for America, who built a \Berlin Wall\ behind shanties erected on the campus green. The wall, made of wood draped in sheets and wound with chicken wire, is a counter protest, explains student William Peaslee, a College Republican. \We built the wall to, 1) , make a statement against tb.e Continued on page 4 ' All Student Activities . which are funded by the Student Forum must submit their budgets to Mrs. Marra's office in Old Chapel by 4:30 on Friday, April 25th Should StudeDt Funds Be Used for Politics? Continued from page 1 fightin,g for similar legislation in many states, from Con· Albany student. In an interview ·necticut to California. . I conducted with her, Young Pu;on 1 also told me .his main described NYPIRG as a group reason for sponsoring this bill. made up of students who are \Th~ SUNY system is· a public slightly left of center, that is university system supported by · dedicated to promoting the New York State tax dollars. We interests of students mainly on should not be fllnding programs conswner issues, and women's that are anethema to so· many issues. She claime.d that people with their tiU dollars. NYPIRG was responsible ·for · We trY. to .keep tuition down so the enactment of the bottle thateveryone can attend. Many deposit law. She also in~ Who do attend were financially fofonned me that the group is · unable to attend a private open to students of any political schQol where there was no persuasion, but that most SUNY NY~IRG, and they are AlJJany conservatives joined therefore being · forcei:l to their own organizations, such as · support programs which they William Buckley's Young do not approve of at private Americans for· Freedom schools.\ CYAF). She also said that ap- There is apparently a great parently the Albany students · deal of sympathy for this bill support NYPIRG, since the last among SUNY students. Paxon referendum on continUing its admitted to how surprised he funding _through mand~tory was at the large nmnbers of fees passed by .a 2:1 margm. No ~ · SUNY students from across the mention was made of the vot~r state who have congratulated turnout. The next referendum IS him. on this effort. scheduled. for the spring of '87. NYPIRG has mounted an I was also fortunate enough to intensive. lobbying effort to be granted an interview with defeat this bill. They claim that Assemblyman Paxon. ~His ina this bill , would prohibit all terest in this issue arose from a mandatory fee~, and that, in the suggestion made in 1984 by a words of Young, \our campus student who was then an intern would become a cultural in his office. The student was a desert,\ and that therewould be SUNY Albany conservative who no student newspaper, radio felt that he was being forced to station, ·or chess club. The bill subsidize an organization that explicitly states that the only he strongly opposed through the practice that it woUld prohibit is funds generated by the man- the collecting of mandatory fees datory fee. Paxon subsequently for .. political groups, like introduced his legislation, NYPIRG. No other activities which failed in 1985, and which would be affected. he reintroduced this session. Paxon has vowed to support Paxon told me that this was a this bill until it becomes law. If · national problem. He showed it fails to pass this year, he will me a letter from the con- reintroduce it in 1987 and every servative USA Foundation. This year thereafter until it becomes . letter told of how they were law. APPLICATIONS AR·E NOW AVAILABLE FOR THE FOLLOWING 1986-87 COMMinEES: Academic Affairs Council Academic Computing Subcouncil Admissions Liason Committee Campus Operations Committee Concert Committee Conduct Committee Committee On Committee Film Committee Finance Committee Human Subiects Committee Research & Grant Subcouncil Planning & Priorities Committee Sacial Committee Skellar Baard Student Affairs Council Spe11kers Farum Standing of Students Committee Traffic And Pet Court Sacial Alternatives Committee ' ' Applications are due Friday, May. 9, 19 86 and can be picked up .in the Student Activities Office. j3lfore 'f1'i t# ~ 1111 flate, l'lil P8 ., /t6le /fJ {t»>t- /J1rrJI!i!I1F ~f~-' CJ.I\ of_ '(w a~~ 'f re Jco a.efiil ~s<l· Vlll€111· d~s Y/1 ~ovJ 1 - WH04 !! liu, Jfx' '*\* ;1- Htilf#n& cf tJIDWiHS tp (he 4/Rp1Afit l#i/h. #;is ·BMe! t.pe.l Jle.-he~ vJAn p ~ .' Ate 4/)ese HaJr;iL ~~/'i? 711~ /s \'*' e.t:l o(.\ ~ !Me~ ,_.,.,. ...... lb<l~ ,/ w~. E ot L e] p s tt N a p Sl fe in lo cl m w ~~ I! I s1 b n w w p f~ c n k h b 0 il 11

in 1. ic IY re IS s s. iO IY .'y ;e 10 ·e 0 y e It u n e 1f e d t f 1 ~ s CONCORDIENSJS, April 24, 1986 Page3 The--U•. ' . Editor's Note: This is the first of a two part -analysis- of the Libyan situation. This week's episode includes an article by Professor Harry Murray of the SOciology department critical of the recent U.S. attack on Libya. Next week's edition will include a defense of tfte U.S. action by Professor Terry Weiner of the same. department. Also featured will b~ an analysis by -Professor Brad Lewis (Economics) of the ef• fectlveness of economic sanc- tions. Articles in this section should be considered \news analysis\ a~d, accordingly, do not necessarUy reftect. the views and opinions of the editorial board and staff of Con- cordiensis. .•. To the ·Shores of Tripoli ByHARRYMURRAY dous, difficult problem. Unlike the \threat\ from Nicaragua, which has · been solely the product ofthe irna,gination and outr!ght lies ~f the Reagan Administration, the threat from Libya is real. But it ac- complif!hes nothing tOo strilte out blindly~ killing the innocent to vent our rage. If we continue to do so, then we will bequeath to our children a world brimming We have progressed greatly in the last few millenia. No longer do we scream in glee that children ~re ripped from their mothers and dashed against the wall, as did the ancient Israelites. Now we speak of \collateral damage.\ Yet we still murder children. Our bombs rip thein from their mothers and dash them against walls. We live in a society in which the children are no longer punished for the sins of their fathers, or so we say. Yet Colonel Qadaffi's fifteen- month-old daughter will never know this-she lies dead at our hands; her only crime having been to be adopted by an enemy of the United States. Violence begets violence. This is perhaps the most universally valid of sociological laws. Will our raid on Libya · stop terrorism? No one believes it will. All we have accomplished is to give some human beings more reason to hate the United States .. Will Qadaffi's two wounded sons come to love and respect the U.S.? Will the civilians whose houses were destroyed? Will those Libyans who last friends and relatives? We have given American citizens some catharsis for their righteous outrage over the terrorist incidents of the last few years, but in doing so we have simply increased the amount of hatred in the world. My reaction to the bombing of Libya has been mainly one of sadness, both at the death of innocent civilians--the same sadness I feel at every report of terrorist activities-and ·also at the knowledge that my country has not yet learned to seek nonviolent ways to deal with those who threaten us. Cer- tainly terrorism is a tremen- · with hate and rage. . The main argument for the · bombing seems to be that there was nothing else we could do: . we had to respond somehow; diplomacy had been exhausted Diplomatic approaches, ap- proaches which focus on actual terrorist activity and on the ultimate causes of terrorism, have not been exhausted. We need to stop characterizing terrorists simply as madmen and ask why they hate the United States with such passion. We need to take action which will dry up terrorism at its . source· rather than simply · killing innocent citizens of one · of the countries which has sponsored terrorist attacks. Such approaches are difficult, requiring great diplomatic skills. But we have skilled diplomats in this country--the people who helped negotiate the Egyptian-Israeli Peace Treaty for example. The -problem is · that we do not have skilled diplomats in the upper levels of an administration which is committed to military solutions to every problem. As long as our foreign policy is . based on reenacting old military fight songs (or is it just a coincidence that Reagan has been obsessed with the Halls of Montezuma and the shores of Triopli for the last few years?), we will have no peace .. Hurr.J' Murray is a Visiting Instructor of Sociology. This Week's Events THURSDAY, APRIL 24 · 1:30 p.m. Humanities Room 113. Alan Williams talk/discussion in Prof. Jordan Smith's class on \How to Land a Job in Publishing:· 3 p.m. Baseball at North Adams. . 4 p.m. Humanities Lounge. Alan Williams talk/discussion with members of Concordiensis on 'What to Expect in the Profession of Publishing.\ 4:30-5 p.m. SS 012. Biology Club. 4:30-6 p.m. Old Chapel. Meeting Room A Alumni, Meeting. 4:30-6 p.m. Milano Lounge. Buddhism Group. 6:30~9 p:m. Memorial Chapel. Student Concert Band. 7-9 p.m .. SS 115. Fencing. 7:30 p.m. Whitaker Conference Room Second Floor. Prof. Harry Murray speaking on the Bishops' Economic Pastoral. 7:45-8:45 p.m. Old Chapel. Meeting Room C. Amnesty Inter- national 9 p.m.-1 a.m. Old Chapel Dining Room. Cabaret. 9:30 p.m.-12:30 a.m. Hale House Dining Room. Late Nite Bites. FRIDAY, APRIL 25 10:30 a.m. SS 113. Alan Williams talk/discussion in Prof. Shelton Schmidt's class on \Publishing as a Business.\ 12:30 p.m. Hale House Dining Room. Gennan Conversation Table. 3 p.m. Men's Tennis at Colgate. 4 p.m. Women's Lacrosse at Russell Sage. 7._ 9 Q1> ll p.m. SS 016. The Film Committee presents The Sure Thing. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Museum/College Concert Series presents the Dresden Chamber Orchestra. 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Hale House Lower Lounge. 21 Club. 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Hale House Dining Room. Under 21 Club. SATURDAY, APRIL 26 9 am. Men's and Women's Track. Hartwick Invitational. 'EI.vetl0n5 '\ metres 0 100 2(}0 km J .,.. I• I I . ,·, I I I I I I I 100 ME D I T E R R A N E A N. I I 200 mr SEA e.,. \'''•q TfliPO£ IT!< N-IA A~O.ry~~tt ..J • ll.t,.:shefla,.,.r~ / , Waddlln • s. ... ,..., . JAI¥. A~ ~~O)o ;-~ - FE l'Z AN r~~~ ~r'~ \\''\Q I' t \) tl +~ .Qotva .z.1~h 91 I .. ·~·I Students Exchange Views: 'Terrorism and World Attitude Ccnttinued from page 1 from both sides. Ye~. it's wrong for u.s to bomb Libya, and some ~y we did it jt~st to flex our mwcle. But if we didn't, they wo11ld just go 011 killing. Well, tl:!ey probably still will, anyway. CLARISSA McFARLAN: What do all tbese other coun- tries that are pissed off at the United States right now . . . What did they expect us to do? Just sit ther-e and watch tecrorism continu~? Everyone's $() mad at us. 'The Soviets are · mad at us ..• The only people bebind us are in England. GS: That's not incidental; t1lat 's the W(lr-ld attitude. Anytime we do anything like tbis~ everyone gets mad at us. That's the thing to do. To an- swer your original question: Morally, it's wr()ng. Any time you Kill innocen-t people-in my opmion, any time you kill anyone, it's morally wrong. I donrt agree with rnilitary points of view. People try to make it sound so broad, like one society doesn't get along with another so<li-ety. It's not like that. One administr~tion doesn't get al()ng with another ad- ministration. s() all these people \Vh() have nothing to do with it get picked out of society and go o11t and kill each other for no apparent reason. That's why 1 p.m: Baseball at Middlebury. 1 pm. Golf at Williams. I'm having difficulty in an- swering the question, because from a tactical point of view it was warranted, but it makes me sick. JR: But what could we possibly have done to show libya-specifically Qadaffi- that his actions were wrong? Do you think it would've worked if we'd sat the guy down and said, \Look Muammar this isn't cool.\ GS: Obviously not. They've already tried that. t.91Jn't know. Maybe the United States should go back into isolation for the third time. It's not fair to tell Americans they can't go to these other countries, but then again it's not fair to say, \Go at your own risk.\ - CM: But it's not just going over to Libya. It's going over to Italy and- GS: That's not what I meant. I meant not going east in general. CM: You can run but you can't hide. GS: I don't know what can be done. I'm not sure how dependent Libya is on the rest of the world, but they must have a large amount of dependence because they're so small. If the . rest of the world went along with the U.S. in the economic 1 pm. Softball at Hamilton. l p.m. Women·s Lacrosse at Hamilton A llf' B. 2 p.m. Men's Lacrosse at Hamilton. 4,5 P·IT\· Memorial Chapel. Union Newman Club. 5-9 p.m. Hale House Dining Room. Candlelight Dinners. 7, 9 /;> ll p.m. SS 016. The Film Committee presents The Sure Th.ing. 7-9 p.m. SS 115. Fencing. 7:30-10:30 p.m. Old Chapel Dining Room. Cabaret. 9 p.m.-2 a.m. Hale House Lower Lounge. 21 Club. Bp.rn.-2 a.m. Hale House Dining Room. Under 21 Club. SUNDAY, APRIL 27 9 a.tn. Golf. Hartwick Invitational. I l -4 p.m. Old Chapel. Meeting Room C/SS 112. Big Brothers/Big Sisters meeting. 2-4 p.m. Arts Building, Room 215. Union Jazz Band. 3:30 p.m. St. John the Evangelist Church. Folk Group. 7, !l & 11 p.m. SS 016. The Film Committee presents The Sure Th:ing. 9-10:30 p.m. Old Chapel. Meeting Rooms A llf' B. Finance Com- mittee. MONDAY, APRIL 28 12:30 p~m-4 p.m. IEF Discussion Humanities Lounge 9p.m.-12 a.m. CafEHHLL 'l'UESDAY, APRIL 29- 7, 9, 11 p.m. Film: 'I'lle Secret Policeman's Other Ball SS016 9p.m.-2 a.m. 21 ClubHHLL 9p,rn.-2 a.m. Under 21 Club HHDR WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30 11:30a.m. Minerva HourwithSamuelStoneSS016 lZ p.m. Unionairs Memorial Chapel 9p.m,-12a.m.CafellHLL . 7: 3(),10 p.m. Film: Who's Afraid of Virgina Woolf Free SS016 sanctions, that might have done it. They could have crippled the country economically. There was a mutiny at one of the bases. There's a whole federation of Libyans who have exiled themselves and are waiting for the downfall of ' QJadaffi. It's Qadaffi who they're mad at. The Libyans aren't happy with it. If we put enough economic sanctions and world dismay on them, it might . be enough to make them take care of it themselves. JR: What about the pictures on the news of Libyans burning Reagan in effigy- GS: Sure, they hate us. But nevertheless, many of them are not that happy with Qadaffi. The point obviously isn't to get Libyans in bed with America, because we bombed them, so the intention is to get Libyans to get rid of Qadaffi or stop . terrorism. I think it's possible to push them into doing it them- selves. They're close right now. CM:. In Nicaragua, it's the Contras and the Sandinistas. It's just two groups rebelling against each other. Wouldn't it be sort of the same thing if you have all these people for Qadaffi and all these people against Qadaffi? They'd start a war that way. GS: So? It happens everywhere else. It's happening in Iran and Iraq. CM: But it's still killing in- nocent people. GS: It's not guerilla warfare in Libya right now, and it probably wouldn't be; it'd probably be a coup. CM: But it could be guerilla warfare. And if you try to make the country fall apart from economic reasons, it's still hurting innocent people. It's not killing them, but it could-they could starve to death. GS: I think you're taking this to an extreme. I didn't mean they should start a civil war, and not necessarily a revolution, just dismount Qadaffi. It wouldn't take long. They said that, in the past three years, Qadaffi has taken something like eight people out of high positions in the army because they were banding together to overthrow him. The army's very unstable over thre right now. He's got a seventy- five-thousand-man army that once brought him into power, and they could take him right back out. Chances are, that wouldn't be that bloody. I don't Continued on page 4

... t. Page4 ·CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/.24, 1986 Protests Empt: Anti-Apartheid Violence Stacey Fassberg, Mrs. Marra, Stuart Odell and West College Area Coordinator Loretta Brown present a $1,200 check from \Las Vegas Night\ to Joan Shanebrook, Director of the Schenectady Big Brothers/Big Sisters Program. •, ·continlled from page 2 liberal hypocrisy that only concentrates on one country while other countries are far worse,, and, 2), to protest 'the defacement of the university (by anti-ap~rtheid protest- ers,\ hesays. The conservative students originally asked the university chacellor to order the shanties removed. · \Pe()ple here want both the wall and the shanty down,\ · · Peaslee says, \And we agree~ . Qadaffi- How Students Think We Should Act Continued from page·a think tbe people are divided enough to start a civil war there. CM: It could just be a clean sweep. GS: It probably would be. Anyway, I think something like that would've been better .than bombing. I don't think the world left us much choice, in terms of a political point of view. JR: But the world is con- demning our morals. GS: The world is two-faced. JR: Do you think anyone else would have handled this dif- ferently, like if Carter were president, or Bush? CM: How about Mondale? That would be a horror show. GS: I think Libya would be the least of our problems if Mondale were in power right now. I. think that another ad- ministration would have had Qadaffi assassinated. I'm surprised this one hasn't. But S()meone else just as anti~ American could take over. The ~eason why Libyans are unhappy with Qadaffi is not because of external terrorism or anti-Americanism. So the same thing could continue even if they got rid of Qadaffi. What scares me is that, if tllis keeps escalating, it's not gomg to be long before these countries start exporting their terrorism here. The U.S. is such a big place that they could easily .get away with it, and I think they knew it. JR: Anything else? GS: I just think it's sad that our allies are only there when we have something to offer them, with the exce]>tion of England this time. CM: Probably becawe we helped them ollt in· the F~lklal)dS when the British Fleet wasn't big enough. GS: Argentina wanted to take back the islands and Britain wouldn't give them 11p'? I\ d()n't know what .England wollld want with -those islands. Anyway, I think this could be avoided if the European allies came together for once. I think this could be stopped non-militarily, or with as little violence as possible. We can't do it on our ovm; that's quite apparent. And I think it's sad we've ex:cluded Russia from this, because Russia's having close to the same amount of problems we are. · JR: But we basically told the Soviets, when Gorbachev proposed the testing moratorium, to drop dead. How could you expect the Soviets to just bollllce right back from that denial and say, \Okay you wouldn't agree ~ith us on any of our arms limitations, and you wouldn't go with us in our moratorium, even though we did it unilaterally\? How could you expect them to just come back and say, \Hey palt let's fight Libya.\? GS: Well, in a way, they 7 re already helping us with it. They've started dismantling a lot oftl!eir stuff and taking their people out because they've been having the same problems. It's just a public game, their little face can't become friendly with America; and America has to have their Rambo crap. HANG OUT aT A few days before the attack_:_Russia had a fleet to · such a distance that there would not he enough time to get them back pending, an attack-for the sole purpose of not being able to interfere. Then they brought their ships back after the. at· tack. So they know what's going · . on and they're not going to interfere with it. And the next day they come out and condemn us. It's just a public game. I really think together we could stop it: Europe, Russia, and the United States. JR: And there's nothing else left.· GS: Except the problem. And European indifference. We've always c_pme to their rescue. But France totally denied us . rights to fly over during the attack. We had to fly two . thousand nautical miles out of the way to go around Spain and France to get there. Nobody let us fly over their terr~tory el\:cept Britain •.. probably because we would've pounded them if they didn't .. We want a policy of no protests on the Quad.\ The apartheid protestors, however, figure their shan- tytown sit·in is their last available option for forcing UNC officials to sell stock in companies with South African operations. \We?ve done everything else,\ says Margurite Arnold of UNC's AntimApartheid SUpport Group. \We've been before the board. Our resolution (sup• port'mg divestment) passed a student referendirrn bY 5-2.\ Penn State anti-apartheid protestors met not conservative counter protestors, but a racist poster call)paign. \Dor:t't tre11d on me, Blackie,\ read one poster found tacked on school building:s and bulletin boards. \They (the ~osters) en- couraged students to bring axes and Sledgehaminers to tear down our shanties,'' says Lawrence Patrick of Penn State's Black Caucus. The sledgehammering of a Dartmouth shantytown recently resulted in the suspension of ten students. The students--staff members of the conservative Dartmoutli Review newspaper- are appealing their suspen.- sions, backed by lawyers funded by the Heritage Foun- dation. · For all the noise, it seems many sutdents would like campus life to return to normal. ''Some people want tllis issue to-be over and done with,\ says Andrea Hayes of Dartmouth. \We want to go on.\ . Say~ Republican Peaslee: ''I think most college campuses are this way-About two percent of the students are interested in issues. One percent are con- servative and one percent are liberal.\ \The rest don't care.\ HALE HOUSE LOWER LOUNGE ~\ ,~, ,--, ,, ... ,, .... ,,,~, ,:1.' __., ·HALE HOUSE DINING ROOM ' . \21\ \U 21\ NEW DRINK PRICES: ALE Speed Mixed Drinks Call Mixed Drin·ks Domestic Beer Imported Beer $1.50 $1.75 $1.00 $1.25 HEARTY APPETIZERS LUSCIOUS LIBATIONS GREAT ENT'ERTAINMENT TUESDAYS• FRIDAYS • SATURDAYS DRINK SPECIAL $1.00 ] c p] sl li OJ f( tl d p VI r s' ( ] t E i l

in of p• a ar a .. rs nt in n- CONCORDIENSIS, Af'riJ 21, 1986 Trustees Pass 1986-87 Budget With 7.86% Increase·· Continued from page 1 plaris to instan more compact shelving on the west side of the library basement and reported on the search.for a new director for the Computer Center after the resignation ·Of former director Wayne Holt. The process is in its final stages, with only a few applicants remaining, and the results should be kn()wn soon. Dean Of Admissions Kenneth A. Nourse gave a brief report on next year's freshman class. Union received 3,061 ap- plications for the class of 1990, which was 150 less than last year and represents a drop of .4.6 percent. That is possibly attributable, according to George, to t:he winding down of the Baby Boom generation and to the unappealing appearance of the construction on· campus. Dean Willard Roth reported on the Academic Opportunity . Program (AOPJ. He said that the program has achieved much success in its six years of existence, but . has room for improvement. George quoted Ro~h as saying, \People don't · yet feel the presence of minorities on campus.\ There are currently 63 minority students on ~ampus, but the distribution iS uneven across the four years. Roth stressed that the program is important ·to Union; that the College has been perh~ps too isolated. The \!mages of the Sea\ program bas been expanded for the coming year. It will be a full term in length, similar to a term abroad, and wUl involve .study in locations from the Bahamas · ·to Maine. \This is tremen- dous,\ George said. \Constant work in the Tenns Abroad program puts Union way ahead of the cornpetition-35 percent of the students take advantage of it.'' The Trustees reviewed the preliminary report from the Accreditation Board of Engineering Technology (ABET). ABET wa~ generally satisfied with the mechanical and electrical· engineering · departments but found civil engineering to have some weak spots. Union now must write up a response using their recommendations f()r e1U the gepartments, after- which ABET writes their ·finlll report. The Budget and Audit Committee passed tile 1!186-87 budget which was the . 'final approval necessary. Tile hudget includes a 7.86 percent increase in the tuition and r~otn and board charge, which is, ac- cording to George, \slightly lower than other C()lleges hut still a significant illcrease.'' Ironically, the committee also released the Projection of Revenues over E:lqlenses, wbich stated that the Colleli!e can e:x;pect to make $1Jj. million mo~e than expected. for t~e fiscal year July 1, 19$5 to June 30, 1986. Most of this money will go back into Union's $!)8 million endowment,. which is .money invested in stocks aad com- modities~ \We live off tlle in- terest,\ George saicl, \which pays for about one-th.lrd <lf our education.'' The bonus revenues are attributable, according to the Finance Committ.ee, to the exceptional performance of the stock market this J.last year. GRADUATES CALL 1-800-457-4065 FOR$400AND PRE-APPROVED CREDIT ONA NEW FORD It's Easy To Qualify For $400 from Ford Motor Company • You must receive at least a bachelor's degree or a state RN license between October l, 1985 and September 30, 1986. For Pre-approved Credit from Ford Credit • You must have verifi· able employment that begins within 120 days of your qualifying vehi· cle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordi· nary living expenses and your vehicle payment. • Your credit record, if you have one, must indi- cate payment made as agreed. 8 And don't forget .... you must receive at least a bachelor's degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and Sep· tember 30, 1986. These Vehicles Are Included In The Plan Ford: Escort, Escort EXP, Tempo, Mustang, - Thunderbird , Mercury~ tynx, Topaz, Capri, ~ougar Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II, Ranger, F-150 & F-250 You are eligible for S4()0 even if you don't finance your purchase. Use it toward your down pay~ ment or get a check from Ford after the pure hase or lease. The amount of your pre· approved credit i~ cleter~ mined by the qualified vehicle you buy. If a vehicle is not in dealer stock, it mu~t be ordered by June 1, 1986. Delivery ofall vehicles must be t<aken by August 31, 1986. For complete details ~>n how to get your $4-00 plus pre-approved <:redi t, call the toll-free 11umber today. t .. 800457-4()()5 ·PageS. ,,r' '.,,\ JY. THE RESULTS OF THE SPRING STUDENT PHONATHON ARE IN! ... ell ..0 :I ... (!) Q.l > tO Cl >- ..0 0 - 0 J:: a. During the evenirtgs ofAprill4- Aprill7, 91 studentsparticipated in the 74th Annual Fund Phonathon. Overall, 688 pledges totaling $36,247 were obtained. Cash-prize winners in the three areas of competition were as .follows: New Donors: Chi Psi ZBT ZBT Increased dollars: Total# of Pledges: Congratulations to aU! Many thanks to all of the teams for doing a terrific: 'ob .. The market value on the en~ dowment is currently $76.5 million. be presented again at the June meeting. George, a member of the committee, said, \I don't think that the committee will recommend total divestment, but it's very plausible that they will go for partial divestment, at least as a start.\ In May of 1985 the Student Forum passed a resolution asking trustees to examine Union's financial involvement with South Africa. A faculty meeting produced a similar resolution and in June the trustees agreed, forming The Ad Hoc Committee on Social Responsibility. At this meeting the committee presented a policy statement but it was found to need revision and will The College Resource Committee announceci that it is beginning plans for the Bicentennial Campaign for Union. Although the bicen· tennial is nine years off, George said, \For something of this magnitude to be a success, you have to start planning early.'' -I In these days of broken frontiers and collapsing values, ·When dams are down and the floods are making misery, When every future looks somewhat grim and every ancient foothold has become something of a quagmire. Wherever a College stands it stands and shines; Wherever it exists, the free minds of men. .. ..1. r 11 1 f • ' urgeu un lU IUu anu an: enquiry, May still bring wisdom into human affairs. There are few earthly things more beautiful than a College. It is a place where those who hate ignorance may strive to know, · Where those who perceive truth mav strive to make others see; Whe~e seekers and learners alike, banded together in the search for knowledge. Will honor thought in all its finer ways, Will welcome thinkers in distress or in exile, Will uphold ever · the dignity of thought and learning And will exact standards in these things. They will give to the youth, in their impressionable years. The bond of a lofty purpose shared, Of a great corporate life whose links will not be loosed until they die. They give young people that close companionship for which youth longs, And that chance of the endless discussion of themes which are endless, Without which vouth would· seem a waste of time. There are few things , more enduring than a College Religions may split into sect of heresy, Dynasties may perish or he supplantt~d. But for century after century the College will continue · And thn stream of life will pass through it. And the thinker and the seeker will be bound together ln the undying cause of bringing thought into the world. To be a member of one of these great societ JH\ must ever be a ~lad distinction. 1 <l!ifi Submitted by Dean' Robert Massa

Page6 CONCORDJENSJS, April24, 1986 ' ' -- . . . ' . FEATURES President Reagan salutes the press! The International Relations Club Visits The Capital By TOD DIMMICK From April 10-13, Union's International Relations Clnb visited Washington, DC with 15 of its members. The trip had been planned all year by cl~rb Executive Board member Alison Bend~r. Using the Uhion van driven by Professor Fred Hartwig and an additional car to carry the overflow, the group began the 8-hour drive on Thursday morning. We stayed in Annapolis, about one hollf from the city, because .of the crowds for Washington's Cherry Blossom Festival. The first night in Annapolis was spent exploring the toWII looking for anything that resembled a Skellar. The search was successful, and by 10 p.m. all Union students had disappeared from the streets and retreated down into a perfect stone cellar with can· dlelight and dark German beer. It was a relaxing way to end a long day of driving. Friday morning found most of us up and ready to go at 8 a.m., save the one room to whom the hotel had chosen not to give a wake-up call. Nevertheless, we were on the road by 9:30. seemed to be his favorite responses. Occasionally a question would trigger Mr. Kalb's attention, and he would flip through a voluminous in- dexed book and read a prepared statement. I began to wonder if that book he had was filled with prepared statements, but we could not get at that \public knowledge\ unless just the right question was asked. While the press conference itself was intriguing, we could not ask questions. We had our opportunity after the con- ference to speak with Charles Redman, the deputy spokesman .for the Department of State. He dealt with questions on Syria, Spain in NATO, The PLO, Nicaragua, nuclear test bans and especially Libya and Colonel Muammar el-Qaddafi. We were at this meeting 3 days before the United States bombed Libya, so questions were still speculative. We wanted to know if the US is taking Western European opinion into account in our Libya related decisions and what effect any action would have on us-soviet relations. Mr. Redman responded decisively to every challenge portraying the State Depart- ment side with every well reasoned argument. I wished the rest of the world could see these issues the way he ex- plained them. For me this exposure to Department of state rhetoric was fascinating, but the .press conference was only the first half of the day. After finding food in various places and flavors, we met Alison on 16th Street at the Soviet Embassy. I was impressed by the multitude of cameras staring blankly at the gate. I could picture guards, equally impassively, watching those cameras, for each time someone strode up to bhe gate, the lock opened as if by magic. The gate did its trick for Alison, and she disappeared into the embassy for what seemed like too long. While waiting I tried to figure out how many T.C. channels their 4&foot wide roof antenna must be able to receive. They must watch a lot of T.C. People entered and exited all the time, everyone with a petrified physiognomy. Occasionally a black car would pull in through the massive iron gate. After a while, Alison emerged unscathed and we rerouted to the Soviet in- formation agency. Supposedly we were expected. Upon ~rrival at this building after a refreshing 20-minute trudge, we rang the bell for about 10 minutes. E~entaully we were let inside. We met a man named \Mike\ who apologized for his accent as he led us into a large. sparsely furnished room. Mike volun- teered information and arguments in response to questions on a wide variety of subjects. A comparison bet- ween the responses of this Soviet information officer and the responses of Mr. Redman began to surface. Obviously the arguments are different, but with no background knowledge it would be difficult to judge Continued on page 7 Circle K News ByTIM.MICAL The Union College Circle K Club beld its tenth annual Induction Ceremony Friday, April18 at Perrino's Restaurant in Schenectady. This ceremony was a celebration for the club's newly inducted officers as well as a time to recognize the dedicated efforts of last year's officers. Aside from the officers . and club members, ~pecial guests Dave Geleta, Lt. Governor from SUNY Albany; Jackie Noviasky, Past Lt. Governor and Adtn. Secretary from Albany College of Phar- macy; Art Beard and his wife, Union's Kiwanis Advisor from the Schenectady Khvanis Club; and Don Forsyth, AssiStant District Administrator and Union alwnnus were present. Theclubnamed Don Forsyth an honorary club member and presented him with a club pii1 for all hts help and support in the past. After a great time at the restaUrant, the club returned to campus fo~; a party where members of the Adirondack Community Col'lege Club participated, and where our club proceeded to show them that Union's social life is alive and well. UPCOMING CIRCLE K EVENTS: -Working the ''Roll-a-Ball\ both at the Kiwanis Fun-Fair Aprll 3()..May 1. . -Taking underprivileged children from the IDeal Boys' Club to . Kamp Kiwanis for a weekend of camping. ~Holding a 50-50 raffle on campus in which the winner will be drawn on Parents' Weekend. Tickets will be 50 cents or 3 for a dollar. If interested in helping or participating in these events, come to Wednesday's meeting in SS 010, new members welcome. Introducing •• ~ GBake(Y\\ • TeaGR.oom ·Candy- .. Gif~ Gounnet Specialties 518· 393· 5592 A Ct~untry French Gourmet Food, Candy ond Gift Store . .• Featuring: . Snacks, 10% discount Baked Goods, Natural 90 soqa for Gourmet Piz:Nts including a Sausage bread Union College birthday cake for dips. Students Someone Special . th.e listjs ~ncUes$ Arriving at Pentagon City t() meet the others who had gone ahead, we found that we were at the wrong stop and those we were to meet were nowhere in · sight. Yet before going back t() the right stop, we had to wait for the person who had been inadvertently left behind at the last transfer point. When we arrived at the correct stop for the Pentagon, we met everybody but were too late for the tour. So we remained inside the caverns and watched Washington's new subway take 11s back across the river. Ai Foggy Bottom we were all together and in time for the 12:00 press conference. We counted our blessings bnt wished that we had eaten breakfast. Union College Studen' Elected to Physics SOciety 1 Summar Fall Spring I . WASH I NGTO.N 1 OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS The press conference at the State Department with Bernard Kalb and Charles Redman was well worth the previous hassles. Our group was split on either side of a room filled with con- centric tables and cameras centering on one wall with a world map and a podium. We arrived well in advance, so we had plenty of time to meet the reporters spread around the room. Floodlights on the podium announced the beginning of the conference and reporters streamed in to fill tables. Bernard Kalb, spokesman for the Department of State, Charles Redman and several others took up stations along the wall. \Bernie\ pointed to people, and in response to questions said, \I have nothing to share with you on that\ or \I'll check on that for you.\ For most of the session, these Louis A. Schick, a Union College sophomore majoring in physics, has been elected to a one-year term as Zone 2 Associate Counselor of the Society of Physics Students (SPS), a national un~ dergraduate organization that promulgates topics of interest in physics. Schick is the son of Kenneth and Elaine Schick of Burnt Hills and is a 1984 graduate of Burnt Hills High School. In this position, Schick will work with the SPS and chapters of Sigma Pi Sigma, the professional and undergraduate physics fraternity, within his zone (one of 12 zones nation- wide) to promote student ac- tivity and SPS programs. In addition, Schick will represent the zone, which includes all of the colleges in New York State, at the annual meeting of the SPS National Council, to be held in Washington, D.C., on April27 and 28. Schick was nominated for this position by professors in the Union Physics Department, who have been impressed with his work. Thoqgh only a sophomore, Schick is already contributing to Union Associate Professor Lazlo Baksay's research project on the development of a time projection chamber in a new particle detector. This detector could be used to study the decay of the. proton, a particle once thought to be permanently stable. Last summer, Schick conducted research on this project at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif. Ca·ppiello' Scholarship scholarship, which will be awarded annually to an en- tering freshman requiring financial assistance, are students who are children of members of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery Co. of Massachusetts. ·Michael R. Cappiello, a Bourne property developer living in Boston and Wareham, Mass., has set up a $50,000 endowed scholarship fund to benefit students residing in Wareham and Bourne, Mass., who attend Union College in Schenectady, New York. Cappiello is a 1939 graduate of Also eligible for this , Union College. Union, an independent, coeducational college with 2,000 undergraduates, offers programs in the liberal arts and engineering. Founded in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1795, Union was the first college chartered by the Regents of the State of New York and is among the oldest nondenominational colleges in the country. OXFORD ~u1~:6ER Full Academic Years In • Oxford University • L.S.E. • St. Andrews, Scotland U.S. credits will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded in Virginia by James Madison in 1176. Graduate work is an option. The Director of Studies for the CenterforQualityEducation Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. Hon. The lord Beloff, D.litt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLE K. J.D .• Admissions 0 irector CQEA/ WISC,Rm53,158W. 81 St.. NY.NY. 10024. (212· 724·()804/724·0136). lEO/AAt - l as1 pe Scl flo Co ·int mt Ofii RE m4 sc ge Rt Sc co I 191 co an _.). in ( I

Page6 CONCORDIENS/S, Apri/24, 1986 FEATURE.S President Reagan salutes the press! Circle K News ByTIMMICAL The Union College Circle K Club held its tenth annual lnduction Ceremony Friday, April18 at Perrino's Restaurant in Schenectal!ly. This ceremony was a celebration for the club's newly inducted officers as well as a time to recognize the dedicated efforts of last year's officers. Aside from the efficers and club members, special guests Dave Geleta, Lt. Governor from SUNY Albany; Jackie Noviasky, Past Lt. Governor and Adm. Secretary from Albany College of Phar- macy; Art Beard and his wife, Union's Kiwanis Advisor from the Schenectady Kiwanis Club; and Don Forsyth, Assistant District Administratar and Union alwnnus were present. The club named Don Forsyth an hom:>rary club member and presented him with a club pin for all his help and support in the past. After a great time at the restaurant, the club returned to campus for a party where members of the Adirondack Community College Club participated, and where our club proceeded to shew thein that Union's social Ufe is alive and well. UPCOMING CIRCLE K EVENTS: The International Relations Club Visits The Capital -Working the \Roll-a-Ball\ both at the Kiwanis Fun-Fair April 30-May 1. By TOD DIMMICK From April 10-13, Union's International Relations Club visited Washington, DC with 15 of its members. The trip had been planned all year by club Executive Board member Alison Bender. Using the Uhion van driven by Professor Fred Hartwig and an additional car to carry the overflow, the group began the 8-hour drive on Thursday morning. We stayed in Annapolis, abeut one hour from the city, because of the crowds for Washington's Cherry Blossom Festival. The first night in Annapolis was spent exploring the town looking for anything that resembled a Skellar. The search was successful, and by 10 p.m. all Union students had disappeared from the streets and retreated down into a perfect stone cellar with can- dlelight and dark German beer. It was a relaxing way to end a long day of driving. Friday morning found most of us up and ready to go at 8 a.m., save the one room to whom the hotel had chosen not to give a wake-up call. Nevertheless, we were on the road by 9:30. Arriving at Pentagon City to meet the others who had gone ahead, we found that we were at the wrong stop and those we were to meet were nowhere in sight. Yet before going back to the right stop, we had to wait for the person who had been inadvertently left behind at the last transfer point. When we arrived at the correct stop for the Pentagon, we met everybody but were too late for the tour. So we remained inside the caverns and watched Washington's new subway take us back across the river. At Foggy Bottom we were all together and in time for the 12:00 press conference. We counted our blessings but wished that we had eaten breakfast. The press conference at the State Department with Bernard Kalb and Charles Redman was well worth the previous hassles. Our group was split on either side of a room filled with con- centric tables and cameras centering on one wall with a world map and a podium. We arrived well in advance, so we had plenty of time to meet the reporters spread around the room. Floodlights on the podium announced the beginning of the conference and reporters streamed in to fill tables. Bernard Kalb, spokesman for the Department of State, Charles Redman and several others took up stations along the wall. \Bernie\ pointed to people, and in response to questions said, \I have nothing to share with you on that\ or \rn check on that for you.\ For most of the session, these seemed to be his favorite responses. Occasionally a question. would trigger Mr. Kalb's attention, and he would flip through a voluminous in- dexed book and read a prepared statement. I began to wonder if tllat book he had was filled with prepared statements, but we coula not get at that \public knowledge\ unless just the right question. was asked. Wl!Ue the press conference itself was intriguing, we could not ask questiens. We had our opportunity after the con- ference to speak with Charles Redman, the deputy spokesman for the Department of State. He dealt with questions on Syria, Spain in NATO, The PLO, Nicaragua, nuclear test bans and especially Libya and Colonel Muammar el-Qaddafi. We were at this meeting 3 days before the United States bombed Libya, so questions were still speculative. We wantea to know if the US is taldng Western European opinion into account in our Libya related decisions and what effect any action would have on US-Soviet relations. Mr. Redman responded decisively to every challenge portraying the State Depart- ment side with every well reasoned argument. I wished the rest of the world could see these issues the way he ex- plained them. For me this exposure to Department of State rhetoric was fascinating, but the press conference was only the first half of the day. After finding food in various places and flavors, we met AlisoR on 16th Street at the Soviet Embassy. I was impressed by the multitude ()f cameras staring blankly at the gate. I could picture guards, equally impassively, watching tbose cameras, for each time S{)meone strode up to the gate, tbe lock opened as if by magic. The gate did its trick for Alison, and she disappeared into the embassy for what seemed like too long. While waiting I tried to figure out how many T.C. cllannels their 40-foot wide roof antenna must be able to receive. They must watch a lot of T.C. People entered and exited all the time, everyone with a petrified physiognomy. Occasionally a black car would pull in through the massive iron gate. After a while, Alison emerged unscathed and we rerouted to the Soviet in- formation agency. Supposedly we were expected. Upon arrival at this building after a refreshing 20-minute trudge, we rang the bell for a bout 10 minutes. Eventaully we were let inside. We met a man named \Mike\ who apologized for his accent as he led us into a large sparsely furnished room. Mike volun- teered information and arguments in response to questions on a wide variety of st1bjects. A comparison bet- ween the responses of this Soviet information officer and the responses of Mr. Redman !>egan to surface. Obviously the arguments are different, but with no background knowledge it would be difficult to judge Continued on page 7 -Taking underprivileged children from the local Beys' Club to Kamp Kiwanis for a weekend of camping. -Holding a 50-50 raffle on campus in which the winner will be drawn on Parents' Weekend. Tickets will be 50 cents or 3 for a dollar. INTER l CLUB If interested in helping or participating in these events, come to Wednesday's meeting in SS 010, new members welcome. Introducing. o. GBaketY\· TeaGRoom · Candy· (iif~ GoutiD.etSpecialties 518·393·5592 A Counfi'J' French Gourmet Food, Candy and Gift Store • .• Featuring: Snacks, 1 0% discount Baked Goods Naturai90soda f ' or Gourmet Pizzas .including a birthday cake for Someone Special sausage bread Union College dips. Students the 1 istjs end. less Union College Student Elected to Physics Society I ;;;H.~ 1 ~Ts;;~ I Louis A. Schick, a Union College sophomore majoring in physics, has been elected to a one-year term as Zone 2 Associate Counselor of the Society of Physics Students (SPS), a national un~ dergraduate organization that promulgates topics of interest in physics. Schick is the son of Kenneth and Elaine Schick of Burnt Hills and is a 1984 graduate of Burnt Hills High School. In this position, Schick will work with the SPS and chapters ()f Sigma Pi Sigma, the !lrofessional and undergraduate physics fraternity, within his Z{)ne (one of 12 zones nation- wide) to promote student ac- tivity and SPS programs. In addition, Schick will represent tbe zone, which includes all of tbe colleges in New York State, at the annual meeting of the SPS National Council, to be held in Washington, D.C., on April27 and 28. Schick was nominated for this (XlSitioR by professors in the Union Physics Department, who have been impressed with his work. Though only a sophomore, Schick is already contributing to Union Associate Professor Lazlo Baksay's research project on the development of a time projection chamber in a new particle detector. This detector could be used to study the decay of the proton, a particle once thought to be permanently stable. Last summer, Schick conducted research on this project at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in Berkeley, Calif. Cappiello Scholarship ·Michael R. Cappiello, a Bourne property developer living in Boston and Wareham, Mass., has set up a $50,000 endowed scholarship fund to benefit students residing in Wareham and Bourne, Mass., who attend Union College in scholarship, which will be awarded annually to an en- t-ering freshman requiring financial assistance, are students who are children of members of the Ancient and H()norable Artillery Co. of Massachusetts. Scbenectady, New York. Cappiello is a 1939 graduate of Also eligible for this Union College. Union, an independent, coeducational college with 2,000 undergraduates, offers programs in the liberal arts and engineering. Founded in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1795, Union was the first college chartered by the Regents of the State of New York and is among the oldest nondenominational colleges in the coUiltry. OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS OXFORD su1~:sER Full Academic Years In • Oxford University • L.S.E. • St. Andrews, Scotland U.S. credits will be transferred through Hampden·Sydney College, founded in Virginia by I James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option. 1 The D1rector of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Utt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fallow of All Souls, Oxford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLEK. J.D., Admissions Director CQEA/ WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St.. NY,NY, 10024. (212· 724·08041724·0136). ~--------------------------------------------------------.d ~----~(E_OI_AA~)------~ : j I I ·j I I I . I i . i ' ! q l \.1 I ~ I ' r l1 I! ' I ? ... . . a: p g, fl c ir ii o: B n s g F s c 1 c a iJ

CONCORDJENSIS~Apri/24, 1986 Page7 2 FEATURES The Adirondacks: A tloser Look By ALEXSTEPHANS It ·would probably be a fair assessment to say that most people are unaware that Schaffer Library has a fourth floor which. houses the Special Collections Department. This interesting, yet a little less than intimately known area, was once shared by the Adirondack Research Center. The Center moved lasf fall to the Schenectady Museum and now gears the title \The Adirondack Research . Center of the Schenectady Museum\ in cooperation wlth Union College. The Center was founded in. 1980 by Paul Schaefer, a noted conservationist and recipient of an honorary degree from Union in 1979. Schaefer accumulated many archival papers on the Adirondacks and a ()omplete set of the Archives of the Association for th.e Protection of the Adirondacks. While vice- president of the association, Schaefer worked to find a means in which to make the documents available to a larger public. The Center was installed at Union and subsequently the material is now available at its new location. The Center maintains the largest and mcst extensive collection of records from in- dividuals, organiz:ations, and government agencies~ A drawer containing complete legal records ·Of a court battle that lasted eleven years and ended in an important conservationist victory in 1956 in the Supreme Court is among tlle holdings. Also available are a set of the U.S. Geological Survey Contour Maps, records of the Adiron- dack Highway Council, and a complete set of published · survey reports of Verplank Colvin, a dedicated surveyor wh.o spent his ljje mapping and exploring the Adirondacks. CDlvin's hard work and determination was in- strumental in the 1885 legislation of Article 14, section 1, of the New York State Con- stitution that extablished the New York State Forest Preserve and the Adirondack Park. The action saved the area from the strip logging of the lumber companies. The park is divided into state and· private land h<>ldings and grew in .size to what is now the largest park in the country. Larger, in fact, than the state of Massachusetts. The members of the Center encourage students to utilize their materials and resources. They also hope such activity will spark an interest for visiting the park itself. Dan Plumley, in charge of public relations for the center and who has _ been hiking in the Adirondacks since he was twelve, .feels strongly that it is well worth it to avail oneself to Students a ls<J share.d their work at the Poetry Reading. Poets' Perception , this :vast park that \is literally in ()Ur backyard.\ lf you travel north, bypassing Saratoga Springs and the lower seCtion of Lake George, you will . find yourself in what Verplank Colvin called a ''profound wilderness.\ An area con- taining over 1,000 mountains, some over a mile high, 36 rivers that radiate outwards and hlllldreds of lakes. If you hiked f~r ·some distance, according to Plumley, you just might stand on a spot on our continent where no one has ever been. The Adirondack Research Center is open Monday through Thursday from 1-4 p.m. or by appointment. The Center also sp()nsors speakers for the region each month and on the 24th of April (today) there will be a presentation by Edity Pilcher entitled \Castorland: French Refugees in the Western Adirondacks.'' The program begins at 8 p.m. and'the public is encouraged to attend. The Center asksfor a $2 donation for their programs, and there will be refreshments following. By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Every once in a while, a phenomena uccurs whereby \professors\· transcend their roles and become real people. \Professors\: these nameless faces we pass by each day, usually without stopping to talk because we barely understand how to communicate with them on a personal level. For- tunately, at Union we are of- fered many opportunities to overcome this barrier and search beyond institutionalized classroom learning. A Capital Visit So when life seems tough, head to the Adirondacks, where yuu will find a feeling of solitude, isolation and freedom. Last Thursday, for example, The ldol put on a \'ell attended poetry reading whicll included readings from both students and professors. Student Kerrie Ticknor began the evening reading four of her works, in- cluding \Before I Visited the Eggman\ iUld ''Nighhawk.\ Both of these pieces were published in the most recent edition of The Idol. Bruce Fina then read a series of four pieces from his work \Standing Alone.\ Fina stated that this work was greatly influenced by John Stallw()rthy's \The Almond Tree.\ Concluding the students' segment of the reading, Joy Runyon, co-editor of The Idol, read pieces in- cluding ••Retaliation,\ \Untitled ''Eclipse,\ and a sharply satirical piece titled \America the Dubious.\ The poetry written by Kerrie Ticknor, Bruce Fina, and Joy Continued from page 6 between the arguments and obvious conviction of the two men. Mike was somewhat more · under attack by our questioning than Mr. Redman. At one point, under fire about Soviet Jews and Freedom of speech, he began to look annoyed. \You should ask other questions, normal questions. It is easy for you in your cozy armchair ... Our students wouldn't ask these things, they would ask about how you live ... \ The thought of asking \normal\ questions started a wave of indignation, but we were out of time. We were assured, however, that any further questions could be · answered by the literature in the lobby. I am now the proud owner of The World According to Mikhail Gorbachev and several other booklets. Thus ended our day of meetings in Washington, D.C. The rest of our visit to the Capital was spent in recreation. Saturday was an active day, with the Cherry Blossom Parade and several Musewns to cover. A highlight was the new film at the .Air and Space Museum called '\The Dream is Alive.\ Another, believe it or not, was the pa<ldle boats by the Jefferson Memorial. Several people met witll Union students on the Washingt()-n Term for the day. When I saw the hotel that our fellow st11dents were staying in for the term, I wished I had participated in this term as well. I, too, wo-11ld like to have my room cleaned every day f<>r me. Friday and Saturday nights, Georgetown beckoned. Imagine a whole town where nobody se~nsto be over 30. The place could C'Ome close to a College-type Eden if it didn't cost yoll-mone:y just to breathe. It would havE been difficult to fit mo:r:e into tlle Washington weekend than we did. I found the mixture cf learning and wandering just about perfect. Alison Bendel\' deserves much credit for or gariizing and leading this s11-ccessful trip. For those who are interested, trips such as these are the highlights of the International Relations Club activities. If you would like to learn mote~ feel free to come to our next meeting. I UNION UNIVERSITY TRAVELING CLUB .AT UNION COLLEGE WE'RE GOING TO BOSTON AND SALEH AND WANT YOU TO COME ALONGI MAY 3, 1986 BOSTON --TOTAL COS~ $17,00 MAY 24 1 1986 SALEM -- TOTAL COS~ $19.00 ~ICKSTS ARB NOW AVAlLABLI AT THE STUDENT AC7IVITIES OPFICR c:no~6118); FOR EACH TRIP THE BUS WILL DEPAR:'r FROM THE 11li:J.LS PARIIING LOT • PLBASB ARml~ 15 MINUTES EARLY FOR CO~PLIME~~ARY JUICE AND · DOUGHNUTS • INFORMATION ABOUT PLACES TO VIS 1~ IN EACH CITY IS AVAILAB~B AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE, DON'T MISS OUTI THIS TRIP IS OfBH TO ~HB ENTIRE UNIVERSITV CO~UNITY, Runyon was eld:remely im- pressive in its depth and insight concerning such monumental issues as deception and death. These individual works were stimulating and thought in- voking. · After this appetizer of student works, the professors read their poetry. Jordan Smith, an Associate Professor of English at Union, began this section of the reading. Smith has published his works in a collection entitled \An Apology for Loving the Old Hymns,'' and is currently finishing a second group of poems, \Lucky Seven,\ with help from a grant from the National Endowment · for the Arts. · Smith utilized highly descriptive landscapes to portray larger issues. One particularly outstanding poem Smith read, \In Memory of the Confederate Women of Baltimore,\ depicted the Baltimore area in which Smith lived while attending school. One literary technique Smith utilized in this and many other poems, was that of \srnbolic parallelism.\ The image of three Confederate women standing over a fallen soldier was quite similar to that of the young girl holding her wow1ded boyfriend who had been injured in a fight over alcohol with his brother. In both cases, the women were able to continue with their lives because they were able to see beyond the tragedies that faced them. Reflecting on the evening, Kit Hathaway stated that he and Jordan Smith wrote about many of the same issues, but in a very different style. To criticisms that he was \trapped in a comic view of life'' Hathaway responded that he was not evading the serious issues, or taking away from their content. Rather, Hathaway deals with dark, deadly serious issues in a humor<>us way, thus making them easier to confront and deal with. Of Hathaway's numerous pieces, one of his new works, \Riding the Lions\ was ex- ceptional. One of the issues it dealt with was the loss of innocence. Hathaway recalls watching a bum feed pigeons as a child, believing that that was all bi.Ims did. Then, later he is ·confronted with the same bum vomiting in the streets. Listening to professors Smith and Hathaway reciting their works made them more than just \professors\ at Union College, and reconfirmed my belief that college education IPUSt extend beyond the in- stitutionalized walls of the classrooms.

r I ' '' l ' ' l I, I I I CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/24, 1986 Page 7 4 FEATURES The Adirondacks: A Closer Look By ALEX STEPHANS It would probably be a fair assessment to say that most people are unaware that Schaffer Library lilas a fourth floor which houses the Special Cellections Department. This interesting, yet a little less than intimately known area, was once shared by the Adirondack Research Center. The Center moved last fall to the Schenectady Museum and now gears the title \The Adirondack Research Center of the Schenectady Museum\ ill cGoperation with Union College. The Center was founded in 1980 by Paul Schaefer, a noted conservationist and recipient of an honorary degree from Union in 1979. Schaefer accumulated many archival papers on the Adirondacks and a complete set of the Archives Gf the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks. While vice- president of the association, Schaefer worked to find a means in which to make the documents available to a larger public. The Center was installed at UnioR and subsequently the material is now available at its n.ew location. The Cen.ter mairltains the largest and most extensive collectien of records from in- dividuals, organizations, and government agencies. A drawer containing complete legal records of a court battle that lasted eleven years and ended in an important conservationist victory in 1956 in the Supreme Court is among the holdings. A Capital Visit Continued from page 6 between the arguments and obvious conviction of the two men. Mike was somewhat more under attack by our questioning than Mr. Redman. At one point, under fire about Soviet Jews and Freedom of speech, he began to look annoyed. \You should ask other questions, normal questions. It is easy for you in your cozy armchair ... Our students wouldn't ask these things, they would ask about how you live ... \ The thought of asking \normal\ questions started a wave of indignation, but we were out of time. We were assured, however, that any further questions could be answered by the literature in the lobby. I am now the proud owner of The World According to Mikhail Gorbachev and several other booklets. Thus ended our day of meetings in Washington, D.C. The rest of our visit to the Capital was spent in recreation. Saturday was an active day, with the Cherry Blossom Parade and several Musemns to cover. A highlight was the new film at the Air and Space Museum called \The Dream is Alive.\ Another, believe it or not, was the paddle boats by the Jefferson Memorial. Several people met with Union students on the Washington Term for the day. When I saw the hotel that our fellow students were staying in for the term, I wished I had participated in this term as well. I, too, would like to have my room cleaned every day for me. Friday and Saturday nights, Georgetown beckoned. Imagine a whole town where nobody seems to be over 30. The place could come close to a College-type Eden if it didn't cost you money just to breathe. It would have been difficult to fit more into the Washington weekend than we did. I found the mixture of learning and wandering just about perfect. Alison Bender deserves much credit for organizing and leading this successful trip. For those who are interested, trips such as these are the highlights of the International Relations Club activities. If you would like to learn more, feel free to come to our next meeting. Also available are a set of the U.S. Geological Survey Contour Maps, records of the Adiron- dack Highway Council, and a complete set of published survey reports of Verplank Colvin, a dedicated surveyor who spent his life mapping and exploring the Adirondacks. Colvin's hard work and determination was in- strumental in the 1885 legislation of Article 14, section 1, of the New York State CoR- stitution that extablished the New York State Forest Preserve aml the Adir<mdack Park. The action saved the area from the strip logging of the lumber companies. The park is divided into state and private land holdings and grew in size to what is now the largest park in the country. Larger, in fact, than the state of Massachusetts. c ... 10 ·' ::E 6=~-==---~~- ~ m 0 >- ..0 0 .... 0 .t: a. The members of the Center encourage students to utilize their materials and resources. They also hope such activity will spark an interest for visitillg the park itself. Dan Plumley, in charge of public relations for the center and who has been hiking in the Adirondacks since he was twelve, feels strongly that it is well worth it to avail oneself to this vast park that \is literally in our backyard.\ Students also shared their work at the Poetry Reading. Poets' Perception If you travel north, bypassing Saratoga Springs and the lower section of Lake George, you will find yourself in what Verplank Colvin called a \profound wilderness.\ An area con- taining over 1,000 mountains, some over a mile high, 36 rivers that radiate outwards and hundreds of lakes. If you hiked for some distance, according to Plumley, you just might stand on a spot on our continent where no one has ever been. The Adirondack Research Center is open Monday through Thursday from 1-4 p.m. or by appointment. The Center also sponsors speakers for the region each month and on the 24th of April (today) there will be a presentation by Edity Pilcher entitled \Castorland: French Refugees in the Western Adirondacks.\ The program begins at 8 p.m. and the public is encouraged to attend. The Center asks for a $2 donation for their programs, and there will be refreshments following. So when life seems tough, head to the Adirondacks, where you will find a feeling of solitude, isolation and freedom. By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Every once in a while, a phenomena occurs whereby \professors\ transcend their roles and become real people. ''Professors'': these nameless faces we pass by each day, usually without stopping to talk because we barely understand how to communicate with them on a personal level. For- tunately, at Union we are of- fered many opportunities to overcome this barrier and search beyond institutionalized classroom learning. Last Thursday, for example, The Idol put on a well attended poetry reading which included readings from both students and professors. Student Kerrie Ticknor began the evening reading four of her works, in- cluding \Before I Visited the Eggman\ and \Nighhawk.\ Both of these pieces were published in the most recent edition of The Idol. Bruce Fina then read a series of four pieces from his work \Standing Alone.\ Fin a stated that this work was greatly influenced by John Stallworthy's \The Almond Tree.\ Concluding the students' segment of the reading, Joy Runyon, co-editor of The Idol, read pieces in- cluding •· Retaliation,'' \Untitled \Eclipse and a sharply satirical piece titled \America the Dubious.\ The poetry written by Kerrie Ticknor, Bruce Fina, and Joy UNION UNIVERSITY TRAVELING CLUB AT UNION COLLEGE WE'RE GOING TO BOSTON AND SALEM AND WANT YOU TO COME ALONGl MAY 3, 1986 BOSTON --TOTAL COST $17.00 MAY 24 1 1986 SALEM-- TOTAL COST $19.00 TICKETS ARB NOW AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 1370-6118). FOR EACH TRIP THE BUS WILL DEPART FROM THE WELLS PARKING LOT. PLEASE ARRIVE 15 MINUTES EARLY FOR COMPLIMENTARY JUICE AND ·DOUGHNUTS. I·NFORMATION ABOUT PLACES TO VISIT IN EACil CITY IS AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE. DON'T MISS OUT! THIS TRIP IS OJ?BN TO !!:H& BN'l'IRE UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY. Runyon was extremely im- pressive in its depth and insight concerning such monumental issues as deception and death. These individual works were stimulating and thought in- voking. After this appetizer of student works, the professors read their poetry. Jordan Smith, an Associate Professor of English at Union, began this section of the reading. Smith has published his works in a collection entitled \An Apology for Loving the Old Hymns,\ and is currently finishing a second group of poems, \Lucky Seven,\ with help from a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts. Smith utilized highly descriptive landscapes to portray larger issues. One particularly outstanding poem Smith read, \In Memory of the Confederate Women of Baltimore,\ depicted the Baltimore area in which Smith lived while attending school. One literary technique Smith utilized in thi.s and many other poems, was that of \symbolic parallelism.\ The image of three Confederate women standing over a fallen soldier was quite similar to that of the young girl holding her wounded boyfriend who had been injured in a fight over alcohol with his brother. In both cases, the women were able to continue with their lives because they were able to see beyond the tragedies that faced them. Reflecting on the evening, Kit Hathaway stated that he and Jordan Smith wrote about many of the same issues, but in a very different style. To criticisms that he was \trapped in a comic view of life\ Hathaway responded that he was not evading the serious issues, or taking away from their content. Rather, Hathaway deals with dark, deadly serious issues in a humorous way, thus making them easier to confront and deal with. Of Hathaway's numerous pieces, one of his new works, \Riding the Lions\ was ex- ceptional. One of the issues it dealt with was the loss of innocence. Hathaway recalls watching a bum feed pigeons as a child, believing that that was all bums did. Then, later he is ·confronted with the same bum vomiting in the streets. Listening to professors Smith and Hathaway reciting their works made them more than just \professors\ at Union College, and reconfirmed my belief that college education :rp.ust extend beyond the in- stitutionalized walls of the classrooms.

Pn~e8 · Olllti.Cllrbirnsis Foundtd at l Inion Collet;e 1877 ------------ ----------- Respectful Observations One of the most important set of values that Union was founded upon rests in its diversity of students from· many different backgrounds. We have all heard the phrase \a union of people\ many times before. However, one thing we all should remember is that this philosophy rests on the ability to respect the beliefs and values of the people that are different from us and to learn from them. In designing the Union calendar, those responsible fail to recognize or respect these beliefs and values. The trimester system accounts for three ten-week terms. Classes are not cancelled so that students may observe religiol!s or national holidays. This is a definite fault of the program and there is no excuse for it. We are simply not above the celebration or observance of these holidays, and many of them have special significance for those concerned. A liberal education is supposed to teach us to form a respect and understanding for other values, beliefs, and concerns. If we took some time out to respect these important days, maybe we would_ gain some understanding of the beliefs and values of other sand most of all to respect those beliefs. It seems strange that we have a Memorial Chapel and a Memorial Fieldhouse, yet we can't take time to celebrate Memorial Day. ·It seems disrespectful that students are asked to travel back to school on Easter Sunday. It seems strange that we can't take the time to celebrate Washington's birthday or Lincoln's birthday, for without either of them, \the real union\ might not even have existed today. It seems. disrespectful that today, the first day of Passover, students are asked to attend classes. We are not saying that Union's calendar discriminates against one group or another. However, it doesn't respect the rights and beliefs of its students, either, and is simply offensive to many. Those responsible for making the schedule could find a way to draw a fair line on what holidays should be observed and a way of fitting those days into the schedule. Other schools manage to do it. This would be much more respectful of the people, places, ideology, and values of all of Union's students and would make Union a more meaningful and respected place to be. Campus Destruction With all the anticipation of what our campus con- struction will bring us, it's too bad that all around us we see signs of vandalism. Just last term, a new illwninated campus directory (with the infamous \you are here\ dot) was installed at the new Nott- Street entrance. It was up for more than a week before someone felt compelled to steal it. Now more recently, the campus directory by Alwnni Gym has also been stolen. But, it has been replaced. Granted, these graphic representations of our campus must look great on a wall, as well as being a great conversation piece. Aside from the fact that we all know it's wrong to steal, can you imagine how much tuition would increase if everyone decided to steal a campus directory? And it's not only these ·few items which have been effected by the immature and irresponsible actions of students. Every once and awhile, as one walks around the campus, sprayQpainted Greek letters glean in the sunlight. Potholes are the favorite target here, but an occasional wall gets christened, too. And then, there's always the usual litter that appears every spring. So far, it hasn't piled up. But let's make an effort to keep our beautiful campus clean and free from trash this term. It's not a matter of ignorance. Most, if not all Union students, were taught that destruction of another's property is a no-no. We must all live in this shared environment and we must learn to respect our surroundings. After all, no one likes to get their hand slapped. CONCORDIENSJS, A.pri/24, 1986 LETTERS Nicaragua: Another Point of View To the Editor: Last week's commentary by Brian ''Judgment Day for Managua\ Kelly was an exercise in American red- neckism, to coin a phrase. I can so easily picture Kelly at a Southern raUy supporting McCarthy's Communist purges, loudly ·drawling, \Kill those goddam.n pinko fags! Those no- good Commies! (Hey, gimme another beer, Harlan.) Better DEAD than RED!! ! \ Be that as it may, I find it a dubious intellect that states, \Our form of government and the self-determination of the people is simply the only fair and moral route to go.\ The moral deficiency of the statement serves only to· in- tensify the image of Kelly as a red-neck Rambo. Communism has its problems and corruption in its Soviet form; democracy Which we have mutilated has its problems and corruption, too. It is Kelly's type of mentality that so grossly obstructs any suc- cessful negotiations between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. How can any two opponents achieve anything but deadlock when the real issues are diminished into a name-calling contest, a battle.of accusations? In order to ally ourselves with the Soviets, we must rise above attempts at converting them to democracy. No on appreciates Jehovah'.s Witnesses who go door to door spouting that their way is the only right way. Why should it be any different in international relations?. It seems primitive to deny the Soviets our friendship on the basis of ideological differences. What about Mikhail Gor- bachev's proposed moratorium on nuclear testing? What an evil, evil empire it is that wants to minimize the ootential of a nuclear holocaust! Horror of horrors! Reagan didn't even consider the proposal. (Think.of where Ronnie would be if Nancy didn't accept his proposal.) He forged ahead with nuClear testing. This is admirable? This is what America is about? This is the America in which you take such robust pride? At the . time of the Geneva summit talks, the Americl;ln people made it crystal clear that .they wanted progress .in our relations with the Soviets. lleagan blatantly denied their .vishes and walked away from the table with his eyes and ears fll:mly clamped shut. When it comes to a decision between might and peace, Reagan chooses might as his moral and fair route. As for the aid package for the \freedom fighters\ in Nicaragua.: Kelly again displays his red-neck ignorance. How about some facts? The current government in Nicarqgue has built hospitals and schools for the people. The Contras, led by Samoza's brass, can offer no such practicalities; all they offer is a shiny new ideology called . democracy, which will probably tarnish as quickly as America's did. The Contras are dignified only in Reagan's designating them \freedom fighters.\ The Contras are gaining support primarily in the rural areas, but their actions are not largely appreciated in the densely populated areas. The Contras are killing people, too. Perhaps Kelly feels the morality lies in who does the killing, but the . more coherent among us know this is not true, The Contras -are merely another case of an obnoxious minority trying to foist their desire for power on an entire country-much like Reagan and his little Merry ·Band. We have no \distinct ad- vantage\ over the Soviet Union besides the fact that Reagan is much more successful in his attempts to cover his corruption and keep it hidden ·from the people.· Such is life in the good old United States of Inanity. Red-bloodedl:y yours, Joy E·. Runyon Student Airs Dirty Laundry I would like to publicize something which happened to me so it does not happen to anyone else. I will not go into great detail since the story is a long one, but suffice it to say that on Wed- nesday, April 9th, my clothes were stolen from Kern Laun- dromat on Union Street. Granted, sometimes these things happen, but the distur~ bing part of this story is that 3 different witnesses have told me that the last person they saw with my clothes was an em- ployee of the laundromat. This same employee later told me that she never saw my clothes and has no idea what I am talking about. The matter has since been taken up by the pollee, and this letter is not meant as an accusation against Kern Laundromat. Rather, I would just like to alert people about doing business with a store which employs dishonest staff. Sincerely, Alison Bender Campaign Succeeds To the Editor: On behalf of all the students of Union College, I would like to thank those of you and your parents who wrote to the state legislature in support of TAP increases. Our campaign was successful! The legislature has approved $20 million in an additional TAP appropriation for 1986-87. How this money will be distributed has not yet been determined, but we will keep All LeHers to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submiHed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday . before publication. AU leHers must be signed by no more than four people and all writers _should provide their addresses · and phone numbers for verification of the leHer. Names normally ·will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect letters that are libelous or do not conform to standards , of good taste. you informed. The imt>ortant thing is that we were suc- cessful! Again, thank you for your help. Your voices were heard in Albany! Sincerely, Ellen Frishberg Director of Financial Aid

Pa~e 8 · (llD1tfDrbirnsis Fo!UifkrJ at ( lmon Collqift 18?,• ------------ -------- Respectful Observations One of the most important set of values that Union was founded upon rests in its diversity of students from many different backgrounds. We have all heard the phrase \a union of people\ many times before. However, one thing we all should remember is that this philosophy rests on the ability to respect the beliefs and values of the people that are different from us and to learn from them. In designing the Union calendar, those responsible fail to recognize or respect these beliefs and values. The trimester system accounts for three ten-week terms. Classes are not cancelled so that students may observe religious or national holidays. This is a definite fault of the program and there is no excuse for it. We are simply not above the celebration or observance of these holidays, and many of them have special significance for those concerned. A liberal education is supposed to teach us to form a respect and understanding for other values, beliefs, and concerns. If we took some time out to respect these important days, maybe we would gain some understanding of the beliefs and values of other sand most of all to respect those beliefs. It seems strange that we have a Memorial Chapel and a Memorial Fieldhouse, yet we can.'t take time to celebrate Memorial Day. It seems disrespectful that students are asked to travel back to school on Easter Sunday. It seems strange that we can't take the time to celebrate Washington's birthday or Lincoln's birthday, for without either of them, \the real union\ might not even have existed today. It seems disrespectful that today, the first day of Passover, students are asked to attend classes. We are not saying that Union's calendar discriminates against one group or another. However, it doesn't respect the rights and beliefs of its students, either, and is simply offensive to many. Those responsible for making the schedule could find a way to draw a fair line on what holidays should be observed and a way of fitting those days into the schedule. Other schools manage to do it. This would be much more respectful of the people, places, ideology, and values of all of Union's students and would make Union a more meaningful and respected place to be. Campus Destruction With all the anticipation of what our campus con- struction will bring us, it's too bad that all around us we see signs of vandalism. Just last term, a new illtuninated campus directory (with the infamous \you are here\ dot) was installed at the new Nott- Street entrance. It was up for more than a week before someone felt compelled to steal it. Now more recently, the campus directory by Alumni Gym has also been stolen. But, it has been replaced. Granted, these graphic representations of our campus must look great on a wall, as well as being a great conversation piece. Aside from the fact that we all know it's wrong to steal, cap you imagine how much tuition would increase if everyone decided to steal a campus directory? And it's not only these few items which have been effected by the immature and irresponsible actions of students. Every once and awhile, as one walks around the campus, spray-painted Greek letters glean in the sunlight. Potholes are the favorite target here, but an occasional wall gets christened, too. And then, there's always the usual litter that appears every spring. So far, it hasn't piled up. But let's make an effort to keep our beautiful campus clean and free from trash this term. It's not a matter of ignorance. Most, if not all Union students, were taught that destruction of another's property is a no-no. We must all live in this shared environment and we must learn to respect our surroundings. After all, no one likes to get their hand slapped. CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/24, 19~6 . LETTERS Nicaragua: Another Point of View To the Editor: Last week's commentary by Brian \Judgment Day for Managua\ Kelly was an exercise in American red· neckism, to coir:t a phrase. I can so easily picture Kelly at a Southern rally supportiRg McCarthy's Communist purges, lol:ldly drawUng, \Kill those goddamn pinko fags! Those no- good Commies! (Hey, gimme another beer, Harlan.) Better DEAD than RED!!!\ Be that as it may, I find it a dubious inte1lect that states, \Our form of government and the self-determination of tile people is simply the only fair and moral route to go.\ The moral deficiency of the statement serves only to· in· tensify the image of Kelly as a red-neck Rambo. CommWlisrn has its problems and corruption in its Soviet form; democracy which we have mutilated has its problems and corruption., too. It is Kelly's type of mentality that so grossly obstructs any suc- cessful negotiations between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. How can any two opponents achieve anything but deadlock when the real issues are diminished into a name-calling contest, a battle of accusations? In order to ally ourselves with the Soviets, we must rise above attempts at converting them to democracy. No on appreciates .Jehovah's Witnesses who go door to door spouting that their way is the only right way. Why should it be any different in internatiomil relatioms? lt seems primitive to deny the Soviets our friendship on the basis of ideological differences. What about Mikhail Gor- bachev's proposed moratorium on nuclear testing? What an evil, evil empire it is that wants to minimize the potential @f a nuclear holocaust! Horror of horrors! Reagan didn't even consider the proposal. (Think of where Ronnie would be if Nancy didn't accept his proiJosal.) He forged ahead with nuclear testing. This is admirable? This is what America is about? This is the America in which you take such robust pride? At the time of the Geneva summit talks, the American people made it crystal clear that they wanted progress in our relations with the Soviets. 1eagan blatantly denied their .:vishes and walked away from the table with his eyes and ears firmly clamped shut. When it comes to a decision between might and peace, Reagan chooses might as his moral and fair route. As for the aid package for the \freedom fighters\ in Nicaragua: Kelly again displays his red-neck ignorance. How about some facts? The current government in Nicarague has built hospitals and schools for the people. The Contras, led by Samoza's brass, can offer no such practicalities; all they offer is a shiny new ideology called . democracy, which will probably tarNish as quickly as America's did. The Contras are dignified only in Reagan's designating them \freedom fighters.\ The Contras are gaining support primarily in the rural areas, but their actions are not largely appreciated in the densely populated areas. The Cmiitras are killing people, too. Perhaps Kelly feels the morality lies in who does the killing, but the more coherent among us know this is not true. The Contras -are merely another case of an obnoxious minority trying to foist their desire for power on an entire country--much like Reagan and his little Merry Band. We have no \distinct ad- vantage\ over the Soviet Union besides the fact that Reagan is much more successful in his attempts to cover his corruption and keep it hidden from the people. Such is life in the good old United States of Inanity. Red-bloodedly yours, Joy E. Runyon Student Airs Dirty Laundry I would like to publicize something which happened to me so it does not happen to anyone else. I will not go into great detail since the story is a long one, but suffice it to say that on Wed- nesday, April 9th, my clothes were stolen from Kern Laun- dromat on Union Street. Granted, sometimes these things happen, but tile distur- bing part of this story is that 3 different witnesses have told me that the last person they saw with my clothes was an em- ployee of the laundromat. This same employee later told me that she never saw my clothes and has no idea wllat I am talking about. The matter has since been taken up by the police, and this letter is not meant as an accusation against Kem Laundromat. Rather, I would just like to alert people about doing business with a store which employs dishonest staff. Sincerely, Alison Bender Campaign Succeeds To the Editor: On behalf of all the students of Union College, I would like to thank those of you and your parents who wrote to the state legislature in support of TAP increases. Our campaign was successful! Tile legislature has approved $30 million in an additional TAP appropriation for 1986-87. How this money will be distributed has not yet been determined, but we will keep All LeHers to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submiffed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. AH letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect letters that are libelous or do not conform to standards of good taste. you informed. The important thing is that we were suc- cessful! Albany! Again, thank you for your help. Your voices were heard in Sincerely, Ellen Frishberg Director of Financial Aid ------- .... --~~i't:t---------· ,,.. ~-l'Ol rib' ti' VJ....OUtOt 6 ... 1 .1 ~. · ltU::;.IS 0 , ... 0 '<l L ~~ ....... ct~>~>'\ Editors-in-Chief Sarah Calderini, Jay Grossman News Editors David .Marin, l..inda.Raffaele Associate News Editor David Gulliver Features Editors Maggie BGital!o, LeeAnn Schmidt Commentary Page Editors Greg Fay ,Stuart Sands Arts Editors . Kimberly Hancock, Penni Morganstein ~pusPage E<iitots Lisa Marzilli, Wendy Zimmerman Sports Editors Doug Lloyd, CbarlleSlotnik Associate Sports Editor JiJ:nSolomon Advertising Edit()rs Jatrice Grossman, Susan Neumann ' Assoc. Adv. Editor Lisa Ordower Business Managers Keith COnklin, ~b Koch Photo Editor · Dave Gruber Sports Photo Edit()J Stuart Odell Subscription Editors Bill Fenstermaker, Daniel Nicoli Staf~: Bob. Bleifer, Mickey Bradley, Adam Emerson: Joan Gotlib, Eric Feirlgold, Tod Dimmick, Michael Glass, Ben Haf!;el! Adam He~and, Andy Hodgkin, Marjorie . Hoffer, Chnstie Hong, Brian Kelly, Jane Kissel, Steve Konlian Cathy IVIarkes, Joanne McAndrews, Pat Merritt· Lorl Ollwenstein, Kelley Parks, Nick Piccirillo, Howie Podolsky, J~ Runyon, PaulSchop, Evan Shack, Laura Shapiro, Julie Stemberg, ConradTatge, Amy Walsh. CONCORDIENSIS i~ published every Thursday by the student body of llruon College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Pu~lications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838~ (607) 563;.3526', Subscription rate: $24 .per year~delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and American College Syndicate. · Office Telephone-(518)370-6155 l .'1 I j I ( 1.! :1 i l ! ( I I 'l l I ., ''

e , I e , ' CONCORD/ENS/~~ Apri/24, 1986 \\LETTERS I . . Democratic Approach Lacking To the Editor: Sey~ral wee~s agQ we rece1ved letters from Alumni Affairs, encotll\aging us to each run for the position of alumni representative .for the class of 1986 in the upcomiJlg ele.ctions. ·At first we t}lought that these letters were standard and being sent to all of the members of the senior class. It soon became apparent hQWever that only a \select\ group of seniors were sent these letters, and even a more \select;' group received personal phone calls .of en- couragement from the alumni office. · We realize the importance of Ute position of the alumni representative, and the need for dedicated individuals to fill the .positions. However, we db not feel that it is the place of the alumni office to in any way determine who these in- dividuals should be. While we have no doubts that those who received letters are worthy c~ndidates, we are al~o aware of many other hardworking people who have not been notified of the positions. The purpose of this letter is ~ot just to complain. We would like to suggest a mass mailing to . the senior class, lll'ging anyone who so desfresto run for alumni representative. In this way, the Class of 1986 can decide for themselves who they would like to represent them. The way we see i~, the damage h~s already been donethis year, smce several people have already been verbally cam,. paigning and gotten a headstart over those not yet notified. Perhaps those involved .in alumni affairs wUl consider a more democratie approach next year. Respectfully submitted, Chris Siler, Student Forum President BethBemell, Vice President for Finance Defense Contract Dilemma By DARRYL BROWN Paul Gray would like his university to have it both ways. As president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Gray heads the school which leads the nation's universities in Defense Department contracts for research on the Strategic Defense Initiative. And leads by a hefty margin. In 1985 the government gave out about $84 million for \Star Wars\ research. MIT got $59.6 million of'it. Running a distant second, the University of · Texas collected a mere $5.6 million. Gray is sensitive to charges that, by accepting that kind of money, people might get the impression MIT thinks Star Wars is OK. He is well aware that the Pentagon has innovated a clever system whereby colleges make proposals for SDI research projects eyen before Congress has appropriated money for them. The Pentagon will advertise all this academic interest in hopes that Congress will allot more funds. \The impact of this manipulative effort to garner implicit institutional en- dorsement for SDI comes with speci~l force because of the controversial nature and the · unresolved policy aspects. of SDI,'' says Gray.- \What I find partiCularly troublesome about the SDI funding is that the effort to short-circuit the debate and use MIT and other universities as political instruements .... This university will not be used.\ Hummm. Gray goes through some logical and moral con- tortions to keep MIT from \being used.\ Gray hOlds that colleges must above all be nonpartisan and \in the mid- dle: \ taking no sides in any issue that does not have \direct connection to the essential activities of the institution.\ The SDI is national politics and policy, which is far from a \direct connection,\ says Gray. \We should endeavor to be neutral as art institution in all matters which do not have a direct and immediate effect on this place.\ Gray's logic is comforting and lucrative, but curious. Colleges and professors, like corporations, factory workers, soldiers and bureaucrats, have to be on their moral toes about what their job, in however small a way, is a party to. Just ask Kurt Waldheim. He's sweating out allegations that he was part of the Nazi war machine an(! Holocaust. Because .he worked for the German high command as a translator and clerk while attending law schoolln Vienna, was he partially responsible for actions directed by the office he worked in, such as burning Yugoslavian villages and deporting the residents? Or does his small, powerless role remove him from collective guilt? Waldheim is using roughly the same defense Adolph Eich- mann tried: pleading he was just a low..;level C()g in the machine who followed orders, sat at his desk and did his work. But courts have decided rightly in recent decades that since .bureaucracies commit crimes without any single person being responsible, every bureaucrat who knows what the bureaucracy is doing is partly responsible. Complicity with evil, or not acting to prevent it, is just as harmful as doing the evil. Gray tries a , related argument. MI'I' holds no opinion on Star Wars, he says, we are just doing our job. But how can the people designing and testing the weapons not be in the least responsible for them, or even hold an opinion on them? That kind of feigned moral neutrality is only a thin veil t() avoid the difficult choice between ap- proving of and helping to develop SDI, and refusing work on it, thereby losing out on substantial research money. Gray would probably charge, as others have, that the growing coalition of college professors who oppose SDI research in U.S. colleges is unduly politicizing the university. More than 3,300 science and engineering faculty-the fields of · most SDI research-have pledged not to work on Star Wars. Their intention is clearly political; they want to stop SDI. But can't a case be made that refusing all SDI research on campus is the better way to keep a college neutral? Research contributes to SDI and delights the Pentagon; not doing research does not help the program, and corporate con- tractors stUl exist·· so one is not stopping· the program in its tracks. Eichmann said he just made the trains run on time, he had no control over where they went or what (whom) they carried. Paul Gray .says, in effect, 1 we're just developing a weapons system, we have no control over how it's used or what it causes. Gray and others subscribing to IN UNION /David Marin Winter te11Ii taught us a lot of things. It showed us, most of all, that there is a resurgence of student interest in campus and other affairs. The long- entrenched fog of apathy is beginning to lift. We nave not exactly stormed the ad- ministration building, but we have made a start. What we have accomplished ·so far is not insignificant. We raised consciousness a little, and we caught the attention of the men in charge. The question must be then: Where do we go from here? What we students must learn is how best to take· our discontent and turn it into useful activity .that will produce results. There are three tools, in particul~r. at the students' disposal that I believe we, as students, should make maximum usage of. 1) The Student Forum. Too many people give this organization a bum rap. While · much of what they do seems trivial and perhaps is, they l:l}so manage to .accomplish an awful lot, both major and minor, by . way of securing the interests of the student body. They do not receive the attention they deserve. Among their ac· complishments this year, they have managed to postpone Gel· Time by one year, brought about the return of the sale of alcohol on campus after a temporary dry spell, and opened the eyes of the ad- ministration to the legitimacy of student concerns. And many of their accomplishments are individually much less significant but combined help to make our lives here con· siderably easier. This is not to say that the Forum is without its faults or that more could not be done. ByPAULSCHOP For the past ten days, our nation's citizens, from Caribou, Maine, to Kalamazoo, Michigan, to Malibu, California, have been praising President Reagan for his decision to retaliate against Libya for its continued support of terrorism. Reagan's action, however, is .. simply another application of conservative philosophy ap- plied to foreign policy. This is a philosophy that I will outline briefly in this conunentary, which I hope that President Reagan will continue to follow to its logical conclusion. Conservative foreign policy involves two fundamental principles. One is the protection of a state's sovereignty. The other premise is the necessity of establishing a world order in which the first premise is scrupulously adhered to. National sovereignty is a· first cousin of the domestic principle of state's rights. Both are in- tended to protect the same value, the cultural diversity of different peoples, and in the same way, by allowing them to be as autonomous as possible. In the case of state's rights, this involves restricting the federal government to providing only a handful of vital services that the states or the private sector his sophistic reasoning should realize that, as distasteful as it may be, there are times when scholars, like anyone else, cannot avoid taking sides. and must conclude which is the better side to be on. Cogs don't run machines, but machines can't run without them. Darryl Brown writes for the American College Syndicate Page9 = COMMENTARIES Directing Activism cannot provide, such as defense, while allowing each state to exercise autonomy in setting public policy in any other area that the state's citizens feel that it is needed. In this way, New York's govern- ment can reflect the wants of its citizens, which may be quite different than the way in which the Oklahoma government reflects the views of the average Oklahoman. This is enshrined in the Tenth Amendment. On an international level, each country must be granted tohe autonomy necessary to allow its citizens to freely . choose whatever government is ones providing it, implicitly would create an environment f()r intellectual and academic advancement. 3) Th~ Dean of Students Office. I chose to use this rather than to name the entire ad- ministration for two reasons. One, this is generally the most acceptable, and usually the most appropriate office of inquiry. Two, because extensive dealings with that office have indicated to tne a willingness and genuine desire to ac- commodate reasonable student requests. Although the Dean of Students is himself a member of the administration, in many ways, he serves as a liaison between the students and the rest of the administration. He is also the one who resolves many of theaeproblems. Most campus issues, from the largest to the smallest, pass through that office than any other. Dean Mammola has proven himself to be an effective administrator who is not so caught up in the bureaucracy that he is prevented from comprehending the realities of student needs and interests. Students and the Administration will by nature always be at odds. We cannot expect and should not even want administrators to· always see things the same way we do. But Dean Mammola has exhibited goodwill toward the student body through compromise and acconunodation. And he has always been willing and available to discuss complaints and concerns with students. I do not have a specific program of action. But I do propose that activism is the responsibility of all students and is most effective when directed through the channels that lend themselves best to actions and results. megalomaniacs barricaded into the Kremlin; necessary to reflect its views. The United State:;, as the un- disputed leader of the free world, must ensure that every citizen of every state has this right, which many currently do !lot possess. This is why Reagan IS so vehement about granting the Contras $100 million in aid out of the Pentagon's $300 bilion plus budget, because the 1 Sandinistas, like all other Soviet backed regimes, are . denying their citizens this right. When the Contras triwnph, they will allow the Nicaraguan people to freely choose a government responsiv~ to their views, and not to Gorbachev's and Castro's. The U.S. must also supp9rt siiilar liberation movements in Angola and Ethiopia, work towards allowing Germany to reWlify, and work towards allowing the people of every East Bloc state, from PolandtoCubato Vietnam to the Soviet Union itself, to be able to choose a government on their own volition that is responsive to their needs, and. not to a handful of The second premise involves the creation of a world order in which the right of national sovereignty is religiously respected. Clearly, Reagan's retaliation against Qaddafi is such a move towards im- plementing this second premise. The Libyan govern- ment has supported terrorism for years. Terrorism of this sort, directed by one state against another and carried out within that state's borders against nationals of that state or of a third state, is grossly in violation of the sovereignty principle. Such acts must be severely punished. Another example is Grenada. Its military bases, built by the Soviets and Cubans, were clearly a threat to the sovereignty of the United States and its Latin American friends. Reagan was wholly justified when he ordered the Marines to liberate the island in October 1983. These two actions are a good start at a global housecleaning of the nations which flaunt their disrespect for national sovereignty, but so far only the foyer is finished. Many other states, such as Syria, North Yemen, North Korea, East Germany, and the Soviet Union routinely violate national sovereignty by sanctioning terrorist activities similar to those supported by Libya. We must act in some way to counter these states so that a new, stable, peaceful world order can be created that will allow the second premise to be im- plemented, so that, to paraphrase President Wilson, the world will finally be safe for democracy.

' ' i I '>j ' I l ~.· l l 'I ! i I i.l ,.., I l I I I iJ i' ., ., CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 Pa~e9 LETTERS Democratic Approach Lacking To the EditGr: Seyeral weeks ag0 we recetved letters from Alumni Affairs, encouraging us to each run for the position of alumni representative for the class of 1986 in the upcoming elections. ·At first we thought that these letters were standard and being sent to all of the members of the senior class. It seon became apparent hewever that only a \select\ group of seniors were sent these letters, and even a more \select\ greup received personal phone calls of en- couragement from the alumni office. candidates, we are also aware af many other hardworking people who have not been notified of the positions. We realize the importance of the position of the alumni representative, and the need for dedicated individuals to fill the positions. However, we do not feel that it is the place of the alumni office to in any way determine wha these in- dividua:ls should be. Wll.ile we have na doubts that those who received letters are worthy The purpose of this letter is ~ot just to complain. We would like to suggest a mass mailing to the senior class, urging anyone who so desires to run for alumni representative. In thls way, the Class of 1986 can decide for tl:lemselves who they would like to represent them. The way we see it, the damage h~s already been done this year, Since several people have already been verbaUy cam- paigning and gotten a headstart over those not yet notified. Perhaps those involved in alumni affairs will consider a more democratic approach next year. Respectfully submitted, Chris Siler, Student Forum President Beth Bernell, Vice President for Finance Defense Contract Dilemma By DARRYL BROWN Paul Gray would like his university to have it both ways. As president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Gray heads the school which leads the nation's universities in Defense Department contracts for research on the Strategic Defense Initiative. And leads by a hefty margin. In 1985 the government gave out about $84 million for \Star Wars\ research. MIT got $59.6 million of it. Running a distant second, the University of Texas collected a mere $5.6 million. Gray is sensitive to charges that, by accepting that kind of money, people might get the impression MIT thinks Star Wars is OK. He is well aware that the Pentagon has innovated a clever system whereby colleges make proposals for SDI research projects even before Congress has appropriated money for them. The Pentagon will advertise all this academic interest in hopes that Congress will allot more funds. \The impact of this manipulative effort to garner implicit institutional en- dorsement for SDI comes with special force because of the controversial nature and the unresolved policy aspects of SDI,\ says Gray. \What I find particularly troublesome a bout the SDI funding is that the effort to short-circuit the debate and use MIT and other universities as political instruements .... This university will not be used.\ Hummm. Gray goes through some logical and moral con- tortions to keep MIT from \being used.\ Gray holds that colleges must above all be nonpartisan and \in the mid- dle:\ taking no sides in any issue that does not have \direct connection to the essential activities of the institution.\ The SDI is national politics and policy, which is far from a \direct connection,\ says Gray. \We should endeavor to be neutral as an institution in all matters which do not have a direct and immediate effect on this place.\ Gray's logic is comforting and lucrative, but curious. Colleges and professors, like corporations, factory workers, soldiers and bureaucrats, have to be on their moral toes about what their job, in however small a way, is a party to. Just ask Kurt Waldheim. He's sweating out allegations that he was part of the Nazi war machine and Holocaust. Because he worked for the German high command as a translator and clerk while attending law schaol in Vienna, was he partially responsible for actions directed by the office he worked in, such as burning Yugoslavian villages and deporting the residents? Or does his small, powerless role remove him from collective guilt? Waldheim is using roughly the same defense Adolph Eich- mann tried: pleading he was just a low-level cog in the machine who followed orders, sat at his desk and did his work. But courts have decided rightly in recent decades that since bureaucracies commit crimes without any single person being responsible, every bureaucrat who knows what the bureaucracy is doing is partly responsible. Complicity with evil, or not acting to prevent it, is just as harmful as doing the evil. Gray tries a related argument. MIT holds no opinion on Star Wars, he says, we are just doing our jab. But how can the people designing and testing the weapons not be in the least responsible for them, or even hold an opinion on them? That kind of feigned moral neutrality is only a thin veil to avoid the difficult choice between ap- proving of and helping to develop SDI, and refusing work on it, thereby losing out on substantial research money. Gray would probably charge, as others have, that the growing coalition of college professors who oppose SDI research in U.S. colleges is unduly politicizing the university. More than 3,300 science and engineering faculty-the fields of most SDI research-have pledged not to work on Star Wars. Their intention is clearly political; they want to stop SDI. But can't a case be made that refusing all SDI research on campus is the better way to keep a college neutral? Research contributes to SDI and delights the Pentagon; not doing research does not help the program, and corporate con- tractors still exist so one is not stopping the program in its tracks. Eiclunann said he just made the trains run on time, he had no control over where they went or what (whom) they carried. Paul Gray says, in effect, we're just developing a weapons system, we have no control over how it's used or what it causes. Gray and others subscribing to IN UNION/David Marin Winter term taught us a lot of things. It showed us,. most of all, that there is a resurgence of student interest in campus and other affairs. The long- entrenched fog of apathy is beginning to lift. We have not exactly stormed the ad- ministration building, but we have made a start. What we have accomplished so far is not insignificant. We raised cgnsciousness a little, and we caught the attention of the men in charge. The question must be tl:len: Where do we go from here? What we students must learn is how best to take our discontent and turn it into useful activity that will produce results. There are three tools, in particular, at the students' disposal that I believe we, as students, should make maximum usage of. 1) The Student Forum. Toe many people give this organization a bum rap. While much of what th.ey do seems trivial and perhaps is, they also manage ta accomplish an awful lot, both major and minor, by way of securing the interests of the student body. They do not receive the attention they deserve. Amang their ac- complishments this year, they have managed to postpone Gel- Time by one year, brought about the return of the sale of alcohol an campus after a temporary dry spell, and opened the eyes of the ad- ministration to the legitimacy of student concerns. And many of their accomplishmeRts are individually much less significant but combined help to make our lives here con- siderably easier. This is not to say that the Forwn is without its faults or that more could not be done. ByPAULSCHOP For the past ten days, our nation's citizens, from Caribou, Maine, to Kalamazoo, Michigan, to Malibu, California, have been praising President Reagan for his decision to retaliate against Libya for its continued support of terrorism. Reagan's action, however, is simply another application of conservP.tive philosophy ap- plied to foreign policy. This is a philosophy that I will outline briefly in this commentary, which I hope that President Reagan will continue to follow to its logical conclusion. Conservative foreign policy involves two fundamental principles. One is the protection of a state's sovereignty. The other premise is the necessity of establishing a world order in whici 1 the first premise is scrupulously adhered to. National sovereignty is a first cousin of the domestic principle of state's rights. Both are in- tended to protect the same value, the cultural diversity of different peoples, and in the same way, by allowing them to be as autonomous as possible. In the case of state's rights, this involves restricting the federal government to providing only a handful of vital services that the states or the private sector COMMENTARIES Directing Activism The student bady must keep both the successes and the weaknesses of the Forum in mind as it gears up far eht elections in May. The Forum is quite naturally no better than the people comprising it. If we do not take an active interest in the elections by following the candidates, veting, or even running, then gur represen- tatives will do us little good. A strong Forum is an essential factor in increasing student input. 2) The Faculty. The faculty and the students are commonly bound by a number of interests, one of them being education. Since a large eleinent of student cgncern and unrest is con- centrated on academic questions, it makes sense that these two groups should en- courage and maintain extensive communications. While most faculty members are more than willing to listen to student epinion, few of us actually avail ourselves of this opportunity. The faculty does not make its conclusions about student matters based only on what the Forum or Concordiensis says. They base it on the firsthand informatien they receive in speaking to students. On a surprising number of issues, professors and students are in agreement. Mutual support between these two groups can be of major benefit to both in accomplishing things. The inference can be drawn from that statement that faculty and students should pit themselves against the ad- ministration. That is not my recommendation. I would suggest, instead, that a cooperative engagement between the two most important groups at this college, the ones pursuing an education and the cannot provide, such as defense, while allowing each state to exercise autonomy in setting public policy in any other area that the state's citizens feel that it is needed. In tbis way, New York's govern- ment can reflect the wants of its citizens, which may be quite different than the way in which the Oklahoma government reflects the views of the average Oklahoman. This is enshrined in the Tenth Amendment. On an international level, each country must be granted tohe autonomy necessary to allow its citizens to freely choose whatever government is necessary to reflect its views. The United State:;, as the un- disputed leader of the free world, must ensure that every citizen of every state has this right, which many currently do not possess. This is why Reagan is so vehement about granting the Contras $100 million in aid out of the Pentagon's $300 bilion plus budget, because the ones providing it, implicitly would create an environment far intellectual and academic advancement. 3) The Dean of Students Office. I chose to use this rather than to name the entire ad- ministration for two reasons. One, this is gener-ally the most acceptable, and usually the most appropriate office of inquiry. Two, because extensive dealings with that affice have indicated to me a willingness and genuine desire to ac- commodate reas(}nable student requests. Althougb the Dean of Students is himself a member of the administration, in many ways, he serves as a liaison between the stutlents and the rest of the administration. He is also the one who resolves many of the3e problems. Most campus issues, from the largest to the smallest, pass through that affice than any other. Dean Mammola has pnven himself to be an effective administrator who is not so ca11ght up in the bureaucracy that he is prevented from comprehending the realities of student needs and interests. Stlidents and the Administration will by nature always be at odds. We cannot expect and should. not even want administrators t() always see things the same way we do. But Dean Mammola has exhibited goodwill toward the student body through compromise and accommodation. And he has always been willing and available to discuss complaints and concerns with students. I do not have a specific program of action. But I do propose that activism is the responsibility of all students and is most effective when directed through the channels that lend thems~lves best to actions and results. megalomaniacs barricaded into the Kremlin. his sophistic reasoning should realize that, as distasteful as it may be, there are times when scholars, like anyone else, cannot avoid taking sides, and must conclude which is the better side to be on. Cogs don't run machines, but machines can't run without them. · Sandinistas, like all other Soviet backed regimes, are denying their citizens this right. When the Contras triumph, they will allow the Nicaraguan people to freely choose a government responsive to their views, and not to Gorbachev's and Castro's. The U.S. must also support siiilar liberation movements in Angola and Ethiopia, work towards allowing Germany to reunify, and work towards allowing the people of every East Bloc state, from Poland to Cuba to Vietnam to the Soviet Union itself, to be able to choose a government on their own volition that is responsive to their needs, and. not to a handful of The second premise involves the creation of a world order in which the right of national sovereignty is religiously respected. Clearly, Reagan's retaliation agaLnst Qaddafi is such a move towards im- plementing this second premise. The Libyan govern- ment has suppr.rted terrorism for years. Terrorism of this sort, directed by one state against another :and carried out within that state's borders :;J.gainst nationals of that state or of a third state, is grossly in violation of the sovereignty principle. Such acts must be severely punished. Another example is Grenada. Its military bases~ built by the Soviets and Cubans, were clearly a ttueat to the sovereignty of the United States and its Latin American friends. Reagan was wholly justified when he ordered the Marines to liberate the isl:and in October 1983. These two actions are a good start at a global housecleaning of the nations which flaunt their disrespect for national sovereignty, but so far only the foyer is finished. Many other states, such as Syria, North Yemen, North Korea, East Germany, and the Soviet Union routinely violate national sovereignty \)y sanctioning terrorist activities similar to those supported by Libya. We must act in somE way to counter these states S() that a new, stable, peaceful world order can be created that will allow the second premise to be im- plemented, so that, to paraphrase Pt-esident Wilson, the world will finally be safe for democracy. Darryl Brow11 IVrites for the American College Syndicate

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 It's Fast Approaching! You want it, We've got it And we still DELIVE~! The Prime Rib 104 State Street. Schenectady, New York U30S Phone 518/JSZ-1204 Make Reservations Now for Dutchmen 's_Night Candlelight Dining in Hale House Sat., April 26 NOTICE! QE2 STANDBY FARE TO EUROPE-Now$649. This standby fare provides a berth in a room for four (we'll find traveling companions for you). Or, for $749, sail in a minimum-grade room for two. This limited offer is subject to withdrawal without prior (lOtice and may not be com- bined with any other offer. Rate does not include taxes or airfare. Confirmation will be given three weeks prior to sail~ -ing; a $100 deposit is_ required with your request. For details, see your travel agent or write: Cunard, Box 2935, Grand_ CentrafStation, New York, NY10163. QUEEN ELIZABEtH 2 Last of the Great Superliners. QE2 registered in Great Britain. CUNARD ©CUNARD 1986 • QUEEN ELIZABETif 2 •SAGAFJORD • VISTAFJORD • CUNARDCoUNI'ESS • CUNARD PRINCESS IE F Project on Women in the Curriculum and the Institution presents . Dr. Bonnie· Spanier Molecular Biologist and Director of Women's Studies at SUNY A Transforming The Curriculum Humanities Lounge, 12:30-1:30 P.M. April 28, 1986 . Seminar- brown bag lunch Feminist Perspectives onrWomen in Science Butterfield Ha!ll09 Lecture at 4:00p.m. Reception immediately following April2fl, 1986 Everyone is Invited ·Make· Reservations Early for Parents Weekend: May 9, 10, 11 Buddhist Study and Meditation . Group Thursday 4:30p.m. in Mil.ano Lounge second floor of Ha-le House Everyone is invited. . ' \ < 1 ~ 1 .,

CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 P=tge 11 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY The Battle Continues • • • BySTEVEKONLIAN removing white blood cells from a patient and. incubating them with the irntnune system ac .. tivator interleukin 2. The National Cancer Institute has tested the treatment on CMcer patients with promising results. But Uke any other good thing, there is controversy Slll'roun- ding the treatment. It is ex· trernely expensive and produces dangerous side effects such as fluid retention. amplification .plays a role not only jn making cancer cells drug resistant but in turning normal ceJls cancerous. · A Varied Attack One way to .:defeat resistant cancer cells may be treatment with .several anticancer drugs for each patients. It has been found that resistance in one drug is sometimes ac- · companied by increased sen .. sitivity to others. But this method of treatment is more of - a hope than a proven research- tested treatment Each year the cure for cancer comes closer and closer. The age of technology has had un- told effects in propelling the research forward-the end o£ the tunnel is in sight. THE B'IOLOGY DEPARTMENT AND BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT \INHIBITION OF POL \':AMINE BIOSYNTitE5iS BY DIFLOUROMETHYLORNITHINE AND CONSEQUENCES ON CELL REPLICATION IN PARASITIC PROTOZOA\ MONDAY, April 28, 1986 4:30p.m. Room SS117 PETER P. McCANN MERRELL DOW RESEARCH ,INSTitUTE CINCINNATI, OHIO Refreshments 4:00p.m. Host: H. Bi reck a When people are asked, \What do you fear most?\ one of the :most common responses iS that they fear contracting cancer. Cancer is a v,ery potent killer, , with the present five- year survival rate for cancer patients at about fifty percent. Hundreds of millions of dollars are spent each year in an at- tempt to find a cure for cancer. Ten years ago this would have seemed to be an impossibility, but today a cure . is very real. Much research is centered around the mystery of why certain cancers initially respond to chemotherapy, then become resistant to it. For example, many leuketili:as, Hodgkins's disease and cancers of ,the l)one marrow, which are responsive to chemotherapy, are curable. In other cancers, like hard tumors of the gastrointestinal tract, tung, breast, and brain, do not respond well to chemotherapy. Genetic Research.atStanford While the scientists at the National Cancer tnstitute work toward an irnmWlologtcal cure for cancer, researchers at Stanford University ha~e made progress on a genetic mechanism for drug resistance in human cancers. Some of the cells produce up to 200 · extra copies of the gene that codes for the production of an enzyme that detoxifies methotrexate, a drug widely used in chemotherapy. Methotrexate is supposed to stop the replication of · cancer cells. But methotrexate fails· in resistant cancer cells, thus the effect of the drug is overcome. The dosage of methorexate needed to inactivate the cancer cells wouid be more than a .patient could tolerate. The action of the cancer cells, or more specifically the caner enzyme DHFR, is called \gene am- plification.\ The research in Stanford has shown that gene The Facts on ·Bulimia NewHope However, an announcement by the National Cancer Institute last December has given hope to many cancer patients; The announcement was the result of an incredible experiment which researchers were able to turn ordinary white blood cell's into cancer killers. This treatment is called adoptive im- munotherapy, and it involves One of America's oldest research institutions celebrates its 15oth anniversary this year in one of America's oldest cities. Located . in 300.;year old Albany, The New York State Museum traces its origins to an era when the Smithsonian had not yet been conc~ived and the Metropolitan Museum of Art lay a full generation into the future. Emerging amid the pioneering spirit of research of the 19th century, the Museum fostered some of the nation's premiere scientists. John Torrey, one of America's greatest botanists, pioneered the collection and cataloging of New York's precious plants and animal resources while working Under the Museum's aegis. James Hall invented the new field of paleontology using research conducted while on the staff of the Museum. Ebenezer Emmons' path- breaking work with the Museum profoundly influenced the development of ~he new science of entomology, and Charles Peck's unprecendented research as a Museum scientist produced the first com- prehensive study of American fungi.. - The New York State Museum was created in 1836 when the State Legislature created the Geological and Natural History Survey, New York's first central scientific .. agent. Specimens collected by the survey's team of scientists became the nucleus for the Museum's outstanding scien- tific holdings. Today the Museum boasts one of the world's foremost research collections of in- vertebrate fossils, a store of higher order ~lants that con~- stitute one of botany's major research tools, an extensive compilation of mycological specimens consulted by scientists throughout the world, and the largest and most complete collection of minerals from New York State. Celebrating one and a half centuries in the forefront of research, the New York State Museum is still one of the nation's first and foremost scientific agencies. Investigations of the state's mysterious earthquakes, ecologically important plant and animal species threatened by . encroachment, the development of nonchemical controls of . insect pests and appraisals of the state's oil, gas and geothermal resources are among the vital issues pursued by Museum scientists. about bulimia,\ Messinger says. Previous scientific reports showed the problem was epidemic on campus, whether or not students discussed it. The Michael Reese Med Center in Chicago, for example, estimated that 15 to 20 percent of the wo:men in college suffered from the disorder in 1981. Iowa State and Ohio State researchers have estimated bulimia afflicts up to 30 percent of their female populations. Victims often consume up to 20,000 calories in a single sit- ting, and then endure some combination of starving, exercising and vomiting to purge themselves of the calories and their guilt. . Messinger's book, essentially her high school and college diary, describes how food binges would relax her for an hour or so before she. was overwhelmed by seizures of guilt. Messinger, who graduated. from the University of Southern California' in 1984, asserts bizarre food habits are only a symptom of a much deeper problem. Messinger discovere<l her feelings of inadequacy in trying to please her .father and boyfriends while seeing Francine Snyder, a noted psychologist in treating hlllimic patients. A bulimia victim often ilas a tremendous drive for ap]lr'oval by parents and peers, punc- tuated by frequent doubt!; about whether. he or she is doing enough to please them, Messinger explains. 'I had the perception iJBople would not love me if I did n()t get straight As and look beau:tifu:l,\ she says. Bulimia victims tend to be high achievers who are always striving to do better. Addi tiorially, Mess.inger maintains society puts ex- cessive pressures on women to be attractive, especially during the last decade's exercise craze. While bulimia primarily strikes young women in their teens ·and early 30s, rnell are becoming increasingly vulnerable because of their rising concern about ap- pearance, Messinger observes. The Psychology Club -is sponsoring a STUDENT- FACULTY PIZZA GET- TOGETHER From 4: 15 - 5 : 3 0 Tuesday ( 4/22) in Lower Lounge Hale House

Page 12 - 0 >- 1/) Q) THE ARTS - ,_ ;::) 0 'U 0 - 0 .c c. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 Elizabeth Ashley and Sandy Dennis conversing in their cozy Westchester kitchen. ••A Coupla White Chicks ••• '' By DEBBIE WIENER and PENNI MORGANSTEIN ''A Couple White Chicks Sitting Around Talking\ written by John Ford Noonan. examined the relationship between two suburban housewives over a one week period. The two actresses, Sandy Dennis, who played Maude Mix and Elizabeth Ashley, as Hannah Mae Bindler both performed remarkably well. Although the play got off to a slow start, it got progressively better and by the finale the wonderful performances of the actresses roused the audience to a standing ovation. The setting of the play is 19 Charlemagne Lane in the town of Fox Hollow--a secluded comer of Northern Westchester CoUJJty, New York. The scenery consisted solely of a large kitcben area where the two women met for five consecutive days. As the days progressed the women developed a rather unusual friendship. Initially, the character of Maude Mix was incompatible with the aggressive Southern belle Hannah Mae Bindler, a new :rnernl:Jer of the Westchester community, but current problems forced the two lonely women to rely on each other for supp()rt. As the play proceeded, the two women learned more and more about each other. This bond between the two women was maintained by the establishment and commitment of a monthly weekend trip to New York City. 8--- - --- 1 To perform at Union ... Both Sandy Dennis and Elizabeth Ashley displayed fine acting abilities throughout the play, particularly in the more emotional scenes. The der,nanding scenes moved the audience. For example, in one scene the screaming and fighting of the two women captured the intensity of the feelings of hart on the part of Sandy Dennis who was aban- doned by her husband. In this scene, Sandy Dennis had packed her bags with the intent to confront her husband, when Elizabeth Ashley, looking out for her new friend's best in- terest, literally would not allow her out of the door. The music, written by Loudon Wainwright II, enhanced the play a great deal. DresdenChamberOrchestra As part of its first tour of North America, the Dresden Chamber Orchestra, composed of the foremost string players in the German Democratic Republic, will perform in Union College's Memorial Chapel. The concert, scheduled for 8 p.m. Friday, April 25, is the next in the Schenectady Museum- Union College Concert Series. The Dresden Chamber Ct·chestra made its debut in 1978, inaugurating the Dresden Music Festival. It immediately received high praise from the international press. Der Sonn- tag described this debut per- formance as \an extraordinary event. The ensemble plays with youthfulness and perfection, exemplifying. Dresden's tradtion of perfect ensemble playing. It can, without doubt, be ranked among the finest of its kind.\ 'rhe Dresden Chamber Orchestra, which has since become renowned for its vir· tuosity, brilliance, and sen· sitivity, performs a varied repertoire ranging from baroque to Viennese classics to masterpieces of the 2oth cen- tury. Tbe orchestra is conducted by Manfred Scherzer, a violin soloiflt of international fame and former first concertmaster of both the Kamische Opera Berlin and the Gewandhaus Orchestra of Leipzig, During his career, he has accwnulated numeroU&awards, among them the 1969 Music Critic Pri2e in Berlin, the 1964 Art Award, the 1972 National Award of the German Democratic Republic~ and the 1972 Smetana Medal of Czechoslovakia. lfi 1976, the Carl-Maria von Weber Music Academy of Dresden honored him with a professorship. Under Scherzer's direction, the orchestra .has made ac- claimed guest appearances in Warsaw and in West Berlin, where it performed all the Bach Brandenburg concerti. The orchestra has also made a number of recordings and has given concert tours of Czechoslovakia, West Ger· many, Yugoslavia, and Japan. The April 25 program will ·include performances of Rossini's String Sonata No.6 in D; Mozart's Divertimento in B• flat, K. 137; Dvorak's Serenade for Strings in E, Op. 22; and a Barshai arrange~ent of Shostakovicb's Chamber Symphony, Op. llOa. WRUC 89.7 ·fm STEREO 11 TH:£ FIRST STATION IN THE NATIONfll Schenectady's only hope for new music presents this week'stop 8.97 songs ... No. Album Artist Label 1. Blind Leading the Naked Violent Femmes~lash 2. Animal Magic Blow Monkeys-RCA 3. Action Replay Howard Jones--Elektra 4. TUFF-ENUFF Fabulous Thunder Birds-CBS 5. Quadpus The Cure-:-Elektra 6. Home of 'rhe Brave Laurie Anderson-WE 7. Tim The Replacements-siRE 8. Big Plans For Everybody Let's Active-IRS 8.97 Pretty In Pink Soundtrack A & M Top Adds: Peter Gabriel12\ /Book of Love/Cactus World News Programming Notes: . WRUC will soon have a compact disc player! ... Listen in weeknights to win Blow Monkeys and Violent Femmes paraphenelia ... The TOP 8.97 can be heard Wednesday nights at 8:00 . . . This week's guest DJ is J. Bebb, Sunday 8:00P.M. -Compiled by ~onrad Tatge Q) L .... ro Q) .1: ~ Ill ..._ 0' .... u 0 L n. .... 0 ·:;,.. '\ Q) .... L r'::J - 0 '-' E 0 .1: a. Hubbard Street Dance Co. By KAREN.M. STASH The Hubbard Street Dance Company performed an ex- cellent show last weekend at Proctor's Theatre. They en· , tertained the audience with a highly acclaimed style of American dance. The Hubbard Street Dance Company started iO 1977 with four women. Lou Conte, dancer and choreographer, created a program with various styles of American dance, including jazz .and tap. The company now contains fifteen men and women, and they danct; a mixture of jazz, tap, and ballet. The show started with a lively jazz nwnber. The energy of the piece captured the audience's attention. ThEm to change the pace, a piece called Tiempo was performed. This dance was a repitition of a series of moves at different tempos. The timing to this dance was precise and crisp. To once again change the mood, a danee with three couples in evening wear was · performed. This inclnded music of Pat Metheny and Lyle M~ys. The latter part ofthe program included a beautiful dance done to the music of George Winston. The dancers flowed perfectly with the piano solos as they portrayed the various moods of the music. The last number was quite a grand finale. It was danced to lively music of the 1940's. Top hats and black tuxedos shone as the dancers made their way across the stage. The Hubbard Street Dance Company also performed at Proctor's two years ago. In that presentation, they had an en- tirely different set of dances. All of the dances, however, were creative and well-performed. The Hubbard Street Dance Company is a d!verse company, so anyone can enjoy their performances. Even if someone knows nothing of dance, . a company such as the HSD Company is very interesting and entertaining,

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/24, 1986 Cl.> ... .... Ill Cl.> .c: f- _rn ... 0 .... IJ 0 ..... 0.. ..... 0 >- </') Cl.> ..... ::> 0 u 0 0 .c a. THE ARTS It¥. tf. ·'I 4 '::l,izabeth Ashley and Sandy Dennis conversing in their cozy Westct:lester kitchen. •• A Coup Ia White Chicks ••• '' By DEB'BIE WIENER and PENNI MORGANSTEIN ''A Couple White Chicks Sitting Around Talking\ written by John Ford Noonan. examined the relationship between two suburban housewives over a one week period. The two actresses, Sandy Dennis, who played Maude Mix and Elizabeth Ashley, as Hannah Mae Bindler both performed remarkably well. Although the play got off to a slow start, it got progressively better and by the finale the wonderful performances of the actresses roused the audience to a standing ovation. The setting of the play is 19 Charlemagne Lane in the town of Fox Hollow--a secluded corner of Northern Westchester County, New York. The scenery consisted solely of a large kitchen area where the two women met for five consecutive days. As the days progressed the women developed a rather unusual friendship. Initially, the character of Maude Mix was incompatible with the aggressive Southern belle Hannah Mae Bindler, a new member of the Westchester community, but current problems forced the two lonely women to rely on each other for support. As the play proceeded, the two women learned more and more about each other. This bond between the two women was maintained by the establishment and commitment of a monthly weekend trip to New York City. 8- - - - - - - 1 -~ .. p ;-\\ ,. \ CJ -;::T'lT ..- ... .u l \ .;,i ~'RF-- ,4f \I ~ ·~ ~ .,!.a \ ~ ., l\l. .., \'' t'l .., I ~ ' I l\i - Both Sandy Dennis and Elizabeth Ashley displayed fine acting abilities throughout the play, particwarly in the more emotional scenes. The demanding scenes moved the audience. For example, in one scene the screaming and fighting of the two women captured the intensity of the feelings of hurt on the part of Sandy Dennis who was aban- doned by her husband. In this scene, Sandy Dennis had packed her bags with the intent to confront her husband, when Elizabeth Ashley, looking out for her new friend's best in- terest, literally would not allow her out of the door. The music, written by Loudon Wainwright II, enhanced the play a great deal. ~~j%~ ...J \\ \' , 1 't. 6 ~ ~ #~·~.~ jj~ 8 ~ ~~o~- .. -..... 11n t-. II~ . --·--- - II~ ::1. - \1 :tift, ., 1\1 ~~ 6 ,., ,~~ 8 .., - lln. b ...-j,J' ~ bo ,., ~----t,. :.d-- It 1'\ 1~. I ~-. - -- -~ ~- ll.AI !_ - ~,. I 'to: I· --.:;- ~ - 11\'- •· AI}. !.a _, 7 ' lltJ f ~ .li{l \1\-- \.' --- ~ - Jj To perlorm at Union ... Dresden Cha mberOrchest ra As part of its first tour of North America, the Dresden Chamber Orchestra, composed of the foremost string players in the German Democratic Republic, will perform in Union College's Memorial Chapel. The concert, scheduled for 8 p.m. Friday, April 25, is the next in the Schenectady Museum- Union College Concert Series. The Dresden Chamber Cr·chestra made its debut in 1978, inaugm·ating the Dresden Music Festival. It immediately received high praise from the international press. Der Sonn- tag described this debut per- formance as \an extraordinary event. The ensemble plays with youthfulness and perfection, exemplifying Dresden's tradtion of perfect ensemble playing. It can, without doubt, be ranked among the finest of its kind.\ The Dresden Chamber Orchestra, which has since become renowned for its vir- tuosity, brilliance, and sen- sitivity, performs a varied repertoire ranging from baroque to Viennese classics to masterpieces of the 20th cen- tury. The orchestra is conducted by Manfred Scherzer, a violin soloist of international fame and former first concertmaster of both the Kamische Opera Berlin and the Gewandhaus Orchestra of Leipzig. During his career, he has accumulated numerous awards, among them the 1969 Music Critic Prize in Berlin, the 1964 Art Award, the 1972 National Award of the German Democratic Republic, and the 1972 Smetana Medal of Czechoslovakia. In 1976, the Carl-Maria von Weber Music Academy of Dresden honored him with a professorship. Under Scherzer's direction, the orchestra has made ac- claimed guest appearances in Warsaw and in West Berlin, where it performed all the Bach Brandenburg concerti. The orchestra has also made a number of recordings and has given concert tours of Czechoslovakia, West Ger- many, Yugoslavia, and Japan. The April 25 program will include performances of Rossini's String Sonata No.6 in D; Mozart's Divertimento in B- flat, K. 137; Dvorak's Serenade for Strings in E, Op. 22; and a Barshai arrangement of Shostakovich's Chamber Symphony, Op. llOa. [ ·wRUC ) . 89.7 fm STEREO SCH~EN:ECT ADY 61 THE FIRSl STATION IN THE RATION\\ Schenectady's only bope for new music presents this week's top 8.97 songs ... No. Album Artist Label 1. Blind Leading the Nake<l Violent Femmes-Slash 2. Animal Magic Blow Monkeys-RCA 3. Action Replay Howard Jones- Elektra 4. TUFF -ENUFF Fabulous Thunder Birds-CBS 5. Quadpus The Cure-Elektra 6. Horne of The Brave Laurie Anderson-WE 7. Tim The Replacements--SIRE 8. Big Plans For Everybody Let's Active-IRS 8.97 Pretty In Pink Soundtrack A & M Top Adds: Peter Gabriell2\ )B()ok of Love/Cactus World News Programming Notes: . WRUC will soon have a <!Ompact disc player! ... Listen in weeknights tO! win Blow Monkeys and Violent Femmes parapilenelia ... The TOP 8. 97 can be heard Wednesd.a:y nights at 8:00 ... This week's guest DJ is J. Bebtb., Sunday 8:00P.M. -Compiled by Conrad Tatge C; \.. ... 'I) <11 .r: t-- \' \.. 0 .... u 0 ~ 11. ... 0 > ,o C; - \.. ::> 0 \ 2 0 .r: Q. Hubbard Street Dance Co. By KAREN M. STASH The H11bbard Street Dance Company performed an ex- cellent show last weekend at Proctor's Theatre. They en- tertained the audience with a highly acclaimed style of American dance. The Hubbard Street Dance Company started in 1977 with four women. Lou Conte, dancer- and choreographer, created a program with various styles of Americandance, including jazz and tap. The company now contains fifteen men and women, and they dance a mixture of jazz, tap, and ballet- The show started with a lively jazz number. The energy of tlte piece captured the audience's attention. Then to change t:he pace, a piece called Tiempo was performed. This dance was a repitition of a series of moves at different tempos. The timing to this dance was precise a11d crisp. To once again change the mood, a dance with three couples in evening wear was performed. This included m11sic of Pat Metheny and Lyle Mays. The latter part of the program included a beautiful dance done to the music of George Winst()n. The dancers flowed perfectly with the piano solos as they portrayed the various moods of the music. The last number was quite a grand finale. It was danced to lively music of the 1940's. Top hats ami black tuxedos shone as the dancers made their way across the stage. The Hubbard Street Dance Company also performed at Proctor's two years ago. In that presentation, they had an en- tirely different set of dances. All of the dances, however, were creative and well-perforrned. The Hubbard Street Dance Company is a diverse company, so anyone can enjoy their performances. Even if someone knows nothing of dance, a company such as . the HSD Company is very interesting and entertaining. ,, \ ' I I i j! I I l l .i I I I I I I , I l 1 I :

Q) L .... ro Q) .1: I- III ..._ 0· .... u 0 1... 0.. .... 0 ').. '\ Q) .... L 0 '-' E 0 .1: a. ~ ey of he ck at a CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 Page 13 THE ARTS Union Talent Abounds at Cabaret By ILYSSE FEINGOLD We had awaited this cabaret, I thoUght as I entered the Old Chapel at 10:00 p.m. on Thur• sday, April 18. For regular cabaret attenders, it had been two weeks since we heard music by our fellow-students. After having been misled by tlte Concord,iensis advertisement for this event, many interested and loyal students entered ttte Old Chapel for the second time this everting. The atmosphere was one of coziness. The bulk of the audience huddled close to tlle front of the . stage leaving few stragglers at the back tables. Prior to the performance, tlle rampant sound of \crunch\ dominated the room. This evening's snack was pretzels and . cheese and crl'!ckets, conducive to the comforts of home. ·· M.C. Cratg Wortmann in· troduced his co-MC's Brian McNamara and Mark Hutchins. They began with their joke d the \awesome pig with-one leg, which you can't eat all at once.'' These M.C. 's welcomed dancing and even engaged in some befor·e the performance's conclusion. Act I consisted of Sean Connelly and Dave Provost. These guitarists and vocalists opened this evening's event with the song, \Machine Gun Kenny\ a dynamic duet which quickly captured the audience. Sean and Dave played their original work which revolved around a similar theme, a dissipated. relationship. Sean~s lyrics speak of \too many memories, too many broken plans.\ Sean sings - to remember, \what we had, not what we lost.\ Although tl:ie relationship is sacrificed, he sings about wanting a friend~ ship. As Dave's body sways iJl rhythm he professes, ''how can you still say you love me.\ In both cases, Sean and Dave \feel\ what they are singing about. There is never a blank stare or one of emptiness. They successfully communicate their sentiffi..ents by carefully stressmg words and using musical retards. Much can also be told through Sean and Dave's body language. Their heads nod at instances of importance. Another interesting song was another original piece by Sean called \The Ocean.\ Before beginning·, he commented that the sang's meaning surpasses the title. The music, with a perpetual lead in of base runs and the strong guitar strum, echoed the ocean. Both artists alternated the vocal Iilles with 'most performances might ·have been injured by· a popped guitar string ... the verse with smooth tran- sitions between the different voices. In the song's chorus, they harmonized with the usual split of Sean singing low and Dave singing high. Most performances might have been injured by a popped guitar string, but these two proceeded calmly and con- fidently. Dave entertained us while Sean changed a string. Applause welcomed Sean back on stage; he remarked \I should break a string all the time.\ They resumed their program with \These Days\ by Jackson Brown and \I Wish You Were Here'' by Pink Floyd. On the later song, Gary Siskind, on keyboard, and Steve Men- chel, on drums, were a welcomed addition. The last song included audience par- ticipation; Dave taught us to howl in ·order to enhance the song ''Werewolf of London.'' The obvious encore, \Good Love'' is the audience's favorite which the artists keep lively by their ability to slightly alter the song with each playing. The second act included the band \The Good Old Boys\; their name perfectly describes their music. This group, which includes J·im Hassenfield, guitarist and vocalist, Craig D~we Provost a.nd Sean Connelly warming up for yet another smashing Cabaret per.form.ance. Fawler, guitarist and bass celloist, Tim Michaels, drums, and John Garfunkel, vocalist, playsmusic by Rich Claitennan and Mose Allison. The band began in an original manner; their scat singing introduced the band's blues quality. After the first song, Jim said, \OK let's get out of the sissy stuff.\ Then Jim wel- comed John Garfunkel, to sing with them and commented, \this is like a dream come true.'; John sang classic words such as \I Love the Life r Love And I Love the Life I Live.\ He punctuated them differently with each repitition. It was evident that Garf enjoyed his time on stage. He moved his body rhythmically and periodically danced on stage. Another song with suitable lines for Union students in· eluded, \If life is driving you to drink, I'll offer you some consolation.\ J·im's l>and proceeded with a musical piece, omitting any vocal, featuring Craig on guitar. Previously, he had played the bass cello. Craig's strum was quite unique. He knocked near the 12th fret of his guitar with only his thumb. During this musical interlude, there was intense silence and the audience carefully observed Craig. Garf is brought back on stage to sin~, \Who's Messing With the K1d?\ This is creatively presented as a dialogue bet· ween Gan and Jim. They both question and interrogate each other as to who's messing with the kid. Both Jim and Garf seem relax:ed and comfortable with each other as Jim asks Garf if he remembered the ending to the song. They are casual yet professional about their per- formance. The band members exchange some remarks as they . are piaying but this never in- terrupts their concentration. They also ask the audience for suggestions. M.C. Craig called the band back for an encore, and Jim modestly accepted. The last several songs, ''Jail House Rock\ \Johnny :Be Good\ and \Knock on Wo()d~' demon- strated this band's impressive versatility. The bl11es character vanished and the band adapted the appropriate sense of rhythm accompanying these rock and roll pieces. I was exceedingly impressed by the band's syn- chronization. Each band member seemed attentive to his fellow artists. They carefully respected each other and faded out to allow for individual in- strumental solos. Act I and Act n of Cabaret were each equally as thrilling. These two acts of distinctively different chaiacters com- plimented each other. It was an evening of first l:\ate musical expression! Concordiensis is seeking -Writers and Photographers Stop up and see us Tuesday Night. 3rd Floor Involve Yourself! Any helpful ·ideas or suggestions. Submit them to the Student Forum Box 2541 Old Chapel, DAMBROSE e ClEANERS 151\JVAN VRANKEN AVE., SCHENECTADY. NY 12309 (1519) 374-51S3 Complete FaLric Care Servi<:es Wicntattn' s <Dlenuer~ & W:nilors 1JI th. NOW 2 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU W itmann • .6 D'Ar jay's 1714 UNION STREET 1621 UNIOf\1 STREF..T PHONE 374-6647 PHONE 393-0917 Specializing in Suede & Leather Cleaning Shirts & Blouses Lau11dered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome •

CJ \._ .... rl) <11 .r: t-- Ill \._ 0 +- u 0 ~ 11. .... 0 > ,o <lJ - '- ::> 0 I) 2 0 .r: Q. m of n- a I i :I I l I . I ' ! .i I l I j ' ~ j d \f 'l I CONCORDIENSJS, April 24, 1986 Page 13 THE ARTS Union Talent Abounds at Cabaret R~· ILYSSF, FEINC.OLD We had awaited this cabaret, I thought as I entered the Old Chap{'] at 10:00 p.m. on Thur- sday, April 18. For regular cabaret attenders, it had been two weeks since we heard music by our fellow-students. After having been misled by the Concordiensis advertisement for this event, many interested and loyal students entered the Old Chapel for the second time this evening. The atmosphere was one of coziness. The bulk of the audiencP hudniPd elosP to the front of the l>tage leaving few stragglers at the back tables. Prior to the performance, the rampant sound of \crunch\ dominated the room. This evening's snack was pretzels and cheese and crackers, conducive to the comforts of home. M.C. Craig Wortmann in- troduced his co-MC's Brian McNamara and Mark Hutchins. They began with their joke of the \awesome pig with one leg, which you can't eat all at once.\ These M. C.'s welcomed dancing and even engaged in some before the performance's conclusion. Act I consisted of Sean Connelly and Dave Provost. These guitarists and vocalists opened this evening's event with the song, \Machine Gun Kenny\ a dynamic duet which quickly captured the audience. Sean and Dave played their original work which revolved around a similar theme, a dissipated relationship. Sean's lyrics speak of \too many memories, too many broken plans.\ Sean sings to remember, \what we had, not what we lost.\ Although the relationship is sacrificed, he sings about wanting a friend- ship. As Dave's body sways in rhythm he professes, \how can you still say you love me.\ In both cases, Sean and Dave \feel\ what they are singing about. There is never a blank ~1are t.lr tJ!H' of t>mptim•ss. Tlll'Y successfully communicate thefr senU~ents by carefully stre?smg words and using mus1cal retards. \llucl1 can also be told through Sean and Dave's body Iang1:1age. Their heads nod at instances of importance. Another interesting song v.:as aaother original piece by SeaR called \The Ocean_\ Before beginning, he conunented that the song's meaning surpasses the title. The music, with a perpetual lead in of base runs and the strong guitar strum, echoed the ocean. Both artists illtPrnated the \'neal lines with most performances might have been injured by a popped guitar string ..• the verse with smooth tran- sitions between the different voices. In the song's chorus, they harmonized with the usual split of Sean singing low and Dave singing high. Most performances might have been injured by a popped guitar string, but these two proceeded calmly and con- fidently. Dave entertained us while Sean changed a string. Applause welcomed Sean hack on stage; he remarked \I should break a string all the time.\ They resumed their program with \These Days\ by Jackson Brown and \I Wish You Were Here\ by Pink Floyd. On the later song, Gary Siskind, on keyboard, and Steve Men- chel, on drums, were a welcomed addition. The last song included audience par- ticipation; Dave taught us to howl in order to enhance the song \Werewolf of London.\ The obvious encore, \Good Love\ is the audience's favorite which the artists keep lively by their ability to slightly alter the song with each playing. The second act included the band \The Good Old Boys\; their name perfectly describes their music. This group, which includes Jim Hassenfield, guitarist and vocalist, Craig :::> .... c./) > c c (]) ~ > ..0 0 - 0 J: ... Q. Dave Provost and Sean Connelly warming up for yet another smashing Cabaret performance. Fawler, guitarist and bass celloist, Tim Michaels, drums, and John Garfunkel, vocalist, plays music by Rich Claiterman and Mose Allison. The band began in an original manner; their scat singing introduced the band's blues quality. After the first song, Jim said, \OK let's get out of the sissy stuff.\ Then Jim wel- comed John Garfunkel, to sing with them and commented, \this is like a dream come true.\ John sang classic words such as \I Love the Life I Love And I Love the Life I Live.\ He punctuated them differently with each repitition. It was evident that Gar£ enjoyed his time on stage. He moved his body rhythmically and periodically danced on stage. Another song with suitable lines for Union students in- cluded, \If life is driving you to drink, I'll offer you some consolation.\ Jim's band proceeded with a musical piece, omitting any vocal, featuring Craig on guitar. Previously, he had played the bass cello. Craig's strum was quite unique. He knocked near the 12th fret of his guitar with only his thumb. During this musical interlude, there was intense silence and the audience carefully observed Craig. Garf is brought back on stage to sing, \Who's Messing With the Kid?\ This is creatively presented as a dialogue bet- ween Garf and Jim. They both question and interrogate each other as to who's messing with the kid. Both Jim and Garf seem relaxed and comfortable with each other as Jim asks Garf if he remembered the ending to the song. They are casual yet professional about their per- formance. The band members exc:hange some remarks as they · are playing but this never in- terrupts their concentration. They also ask the audience for suggestions. M.C. Craig called the band back for an encore, and Jim modestly accepted. The last several songs, \Jail House Rock\ \Johnny Be Good\ and \Knock on Wood\ demon- strated this band's impressive versatility. The blues character vanished and the band adapted the appropriate sense of rhythm accompanying these rock and roll pieces. I was exceedingly impressed by the band's syn- chronization. Each band member seemed attentive to his fellow artists. They carefully respected each other and faded out to allow for individual in- strumental solos. Act I and Act II of Cabaret were each equally as thrilling. These two acts of distinctively different characters com- plimented each other. It was an evening of first rate musical expression! Concordiensis is seeking Writers and Photographers Stop up and see us Tuesday Night. 3rd Floor Involve Yourse/jl Any helpful ideas or suggestions. Submit them to the Student Forum Box 2541 Old Chapel, DAMBROSE ~ ClEANERS 151\fVAN VRANKEN AVE .. SCHENECTADY. NY 12308 (!518) 374-5193 Complete Fabric Care Services Wientatt 11 1 s QIIcnucrs & '<failnrs 1Cto. NOW 2 LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU Wiemann's D'Arjay·s 1714 UNION STREET 1621 UNION STREF.T PHONE 374-6647 PHON'E 393-0917 Specializing in Suede & Lea1her Cleaning Shirts & Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome •

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 PHONES: 372-7270 370.3735 HOME STYLE PIZZA FEATURING OROERS TO TAKE OUT M ADEMOISELLE AGAZINE says. . . One of the top 17 salor~s in the country.\ *Inquire opout our student discounts. • *sUNY bus stops just doors awdy. *Jean Paul Coiffures is Your Island of Elegance in the Capital District - a hairsbreadth from New York and Paris. COA. UNION STREET a VAN ANTWER·P RO. SC~EN!:CTAOV. N .. V. . <flDDRfCiftlf Tftf DlfffRWCf Attention: Student Activities Organiza1ions /Residence Ha Us The Student Affairs Student Activities Van Is Now Available For Your Use Restrictions -Travel within 50 miles of Union .dp cJEAN PAUL COIFFURE0 DEWITI CLINTON 142 STATE STREET ALBANY. N.Y. 12207 (518) 463-6691_ ma 1 qr credrt cards accepted · •IN SERVICE ... We listen -We care- We deliver. ~ lN QUALilY ... We ARE Europeon - Trained in Europe and recognized throughout America. • IN STYLE.- .. We ARE trendsetters - · Innovators of new s1yle - Masters of subtle variafioA. -Cost= .30 per mile plus $3.35/hr for drivers · · lJ ~ f. .. Approval must be obtained 5 days in advance from the Office of lll£lAfllft. '/liD '11 £~ .. ·'IJ · •• .. · • Student Affairs in Whitaker House (X6061) IIII:J IIUIIIII II £~ Dj rrJ New York $458* $499t Chicago $518-Jt $559t Balt.!Wash. S4BB* $529t . $508* Detroit $549t Orlando $518* $559t Get in on our lowest fare to Europe in years. And with it, get a lot more than just the trip over. Because, when you fly Icelandair; you get everything you expect from a full-service airline, with no charge for meals or baggage. Every fare includes free wine with yourin-flight dinner and free cognae after. Icelandair Values Continue After lbu Land: Free deluxe, round- trip motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, Belgium and Holland. Special$15 train fares to Switzerland or France. Super Saver Kernwel car rentals at just $59 per week in Luxembourg. And, if you choose, a day or two stopover in Europe's most beautifully kept secret, Iceland. •super Bargain Fare, 6-30 day stay. 1Buper Grouper Fare, 1-365 day stay. Valid 5/16-6/8/86, $3.00 departure tax applies. For 1/W. information & reservations, call your travel agent or IcelandairiCii.ANDAIRI\\ Full Br_eakfast Menu Made To o·rder. Eye Opening Breakfast at the Bouriqut• 169. Jav Str~f\l Rathskellar. If the coffee-doesn't wake yqu, the Jukebox will. 8:00A.M. To 10:30 A.M •. Monday • Friday Handmade Silver Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts, A Complete Line of Pipes & Smoking A<:cessories. Rock Ts and Assorted ........._ _ Rock Group \ Items

CONCORDl/!NSIS, Apri/24, 1986 Page IS Freshman: Seniors: Camp Union Weekend Sunday: First Annual Freshman Picnic 1st Planning Meeting • Please Attend April ·30th 7:00 P.M •. 3rd Floor Old Chapel We n.e.ed help with f.he Senior F_llng. Please take pity on us and- call: Chris x661'8 or Lorraine x 6118 ~rH~fJLI:L r1~ @g~ Play Begins Monday 4/28 8:ooA.M. U See your l~A or s.odal chairman for information ZJ Hand operat~d. water filled squirt guns ONLY 3.) Prizes to the Champions Off Campus People ONLY Call381-4181 370-6542 . To Si.gn Up Any student vendor interested in selling his I her items on Fitzhugh ludlow Day, Friday, May 23rd, please contact . Mrs. Marra in the· Student Activities Office 3rd Floor Old C~apel. GRADUATES Bud.Kearney, Inc. HAS YOUR PRE-APPRO D, CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT PLUS $400 10WARD THE PURCHASE OF A NEW FORD It's Easy To Qualify • You must re'ceive at least a bachelor's degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and September 30, ! 986. •. You must have verifiable employment that begins within 120 days of your qualifying vehicle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordinary liv ing expenses and your vehicle payment. • Your credit record, if you have one, must indicate pay. ment made as agreed. · These Vehicles Are Included In The Plan Ford: Escort, Escort EXP, Tempo, Mustang, ]'hunderbird Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II, Ranger, F-150 & F~250 The amount of your pre· approved credit is determined Bud Kearney, Inc. by the qualifying vehicle you buy, and you are eligible for the $400 directly from· Ford even if you don't finance your purchase. Make your best deal and you can use the $400 toward your down payment or get a check from Ford after the purchase or lease. Hurry. If a vehicle is not in dealer stock it must be ordered by june 1, 1986, and delivery of all vehicles must be taken by August 31, 1986. See your par· ticipating dealer for complete program details. Ford Motor Credit Company Ford-Mercury Sales & Service Route9W FORD P.O. Box 188 Ravena, New York 12143 Pep Band We Need two clarinets and any available brass players to start rehersals this term -for football season next year~ Contact Mrs. Marra in Student Activities if interested in Boosting Sports Spirit! Fitzhugh Ludlow Day 0 • 1s com1ng Friday, May 23 !. All Faculty Members ' are invited to participate by cooking with students in the annual FHL B-8-Q. More details to follow. The Department of Economics is con- ducting a third-year reappointment revi- ew for Professor Harold Fried. · Faculty, . students, administrative staff . and others are invited to submit statements to the Chairman of the Department of Economics.

Page 16 · CLUB NEWS Newman Club Activities Bishops' Economic Pastoral....;Thursday .April 24 at 7; 30 p.m. in 2nd floor Con- ference Room .of Whitaker House, Professor Harry Murray of the Sociology Department will give an introductory talk on the Bishops' Economic Pastoral. For several weeks following he will continue to meet with those who are in- terested in reading and discussing the entire document. All are invited. Please use rear door. Confirmation-Congratul- ations to Nathanial Baker, Mark Caruso, John Liggio, Christine Mechler, John Seebold and David Weiss who will be confirmed Sunday, April 27 at 3 p.m. The Folk Group will perform and all are invited to this 3 o'clock Luturgy. Buffet Supper-Monday April 28 at 5:30 p.m. at 1630 Nott Street to honor Friar Paul's Ordination to the Deaconate. Call Sr. Joan 370-6087 if you can come and if you need a ride. There will be no regular Newman Club meeting. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Spring Day of Prayer and Reflection-Saturday, May 3rd 10-4 Sister Joan and Friar Paul will facilitate a day of prayer and reflection at St. Anthony- on-Hudson for Union College students and parishioners of St. John's. Lunch will be provided. Please contact Sr. Joan if you are interested. Hunger Walkathon-Sunday, May 4th a ten kilometer walk starting at Linto High School. Registration at 1 p.m. Walk begins at 1:30 p.m. Funds will go to the world and local hunger organizations. Prizes will be awarded. Be a WALKER or be a SPONSOR: Forms or sign-up sheets available after all the Masses this weekend or in Sr. Joan's office. Trip to Covenant House- Wednesday, May 7th. We will leave at ·7 a.m. Perform two hours of inservice work, see a video and go on a tour of the Homecoming '86 All students interested in helping with Homecoming Weekend are invited to attend the H~mecoming Meeting 4:30p.m. Social Sciences Bldg. Room 016 For more information contact the Alumni Office at 370-6168. CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 facility. Plan to be back in Schenectady by six, Contact Sr. Joan if you wish to go. CLASSIFJElJS Drivers Needed for Student Affairs-Activities Van: First 20 applicants with satisfactory driving records will be ac- cepted. Earn $3.35 an hour. Submit name, box number, phone number, birthdate, driver's license number and state to: Dean Massa, Office of Student Affairs, Whitaker House. Subletters Wanted: Do you want to live in the lap of luxury? · A gorgeous apartment will be open during the summer. Rent is low - comfort high. Call us, 346-5349. Self Defense Workshop with Bobbi Palm of· SUNY A Tuesday, April 29, at 7:00 p.m. in Fox Lounge. Wear com- fortable clothes ... Your safety is Worth the time ... Sponsored by the Panhellenic Council and the Women's Network. House or Apartment needed by college professor and wife for June and-or July 1986. Contact Gregg Kaufman 393- 9666. Wanted: Painters to paint house in Lake George in June after exams. Room and board provided. Good pay. Interested? Contact CHRIS NOLAN Box 69, 370-4633. Term papers typed--$1.50 per page. Fast, neat, accurate. 374- 1720. Pro Painters. We hire early for good summer painters. $5-7 per hr. Apprenticeship program-we'll train you. The Organized· Students, 1-800-628- 5538. Professional Typing-Bus- iness teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time, 399-4656. Summer employment in biology. The Biology Depart- ment will hire one (1) student over the smnmer. The position will be half-time (20 hr-wk) and ' will include animal and plant care, teaching laboratory setup, and other general work around-, the department. The period of employment will be July and August and the time com- mitment SQrnewhat flexible in th!lt other part-time em- ployment elsewhere may· be .possible. Pay will be $4.00 per hr. Those interested in this position may obtain an ap- plication in the Biology Office (Sci.·ct.- 8324). No applications will be accepted after May 9th, and our decision will be made within a week. Resort Hotels, Cruise Lines . and Amusement Parks are now accepting applications for employment! To receive an application and information, write: Tourism Information Service, P.O. Box 7881, Hilton Head Island, S.C. 29938. Female Vocalist wants to start a Campus Rock Band. Any interested musicians-vocalists conta<-1 Box 1341. · The Film Committee presents: Wknd 4-25-27, The Sure Thing at 7, 9,11. Tues. 4-29., The Secret . Policeman's other Ball at 7, 9, '11. Wed 4~30, Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf at 7:30- and 10. Free. Tickets are available at the Old Chapel for $1. - PERSONALS Jim, Will, Bob & Anne ... Much ado about nothing here in Schenectady. Ventured to the cape in a '57 Chevy, man ... Still no news on the mecca. Christ, they are just not ready for it here. Sure you are hating the beer there, we'll send exports of Miller Ale next issue. Eat up at Shangri-La! Miss you! Karen, Carolyn, Susan and Jennifer Gina.- Ingrid- If a career formula 1 s m · Are there any mountains in planning stages-LEARN TO _ Schenectady? · I think this COUNT!!! · .summer is a MUST! •• ... Obhhh.,.\ Peas & Tri Pods- Your mountaineering partner Get ready for a big week after . thisone'slittlevacation. Cuervo .. .Is that in the backseat or on and paint. The p<>ssibilities are the backseat? endless. · -~-~~--~~ Get PSYCHED! . To the boat people-Can we clarify that? Congrats Dan & Jerry!! Love ya 1 · Karen ~The things you do in Lisa the name of scholarship!! Aaron- Are we still on for · Paris in September?? Hope so! ! Love, the other one Cynthia, I miss those early morning jogs. Let's do it again soon, but this time let's stay in campus! w.z. Debbie G, I miss our AM-PM dinners! Can we do it again soon, or can we not afford it? Luv, Your favorite dinnerdate Lee us, Dates? Aren't they a type of fruit? I'veneverhadone! Cheer up, what you have is better than any date could ever be! Love, Fred Hidden Lake may have it all, but M, C, C, and K have done it all! ! ! Never say Never! ! ! The boat people live on! ! GAMMA PinS-- This weekend was the beans! (Moon beans?) Let's do it again soon! · Karen Lieberman!! !promise: LoveYa, c. c. a pillowcase by initiation, 5 hrs. for pearl pts m~y tests for the file, and all that jazz ... love in whatever, Your delinquent crescent sis I N.C.- I'm so glad to be here at Dartmouth! Aren't the guys amazing?! That's dedication! I never madet it .... no wait there's ·. more! .. .Is a jacuzzi a hot-tub? ... Does it have to be a brother,. or can it be a pledge? ROB, One more little message. Congrats! Love, AMY Robin Lisa, I could stare at your legs all day ... Pasta , Fazool Bhagwan Deacon ... Congrats-the MCAT's are over! Kiss Stanley goodbye! I'm just getting started. Now the fun begins! Kenny Stu. WANTED: Tall, dar~, curly haired, darkeyed MAN. Apply to Box 1614. Anyone else please apply to box 1614. Mel B, Chris D, Gail B and Gayle D-CONGRATULATI- QNS! ! ! I'm psyched for you guys! Love, Lori Susan ·Darline, Mmmm Mmmm Mummm Wesson Oil! S&K Morning Mayhem with the Sean and Mike Show--and Introducing Kenny Stu and his· many personalities. Tue. 8-9:30 a.m. Congratulations to my sleezy slim\«w buddy-No more wocka wocka bloop of the pledgemonger! Webbie: While you were all alone with your cold ice cream cone, I was keeping nice and warm. tJO! 11£. 's Cr'/1'16{ H£s A Tff!I?D R 15( / t(£ /$ •I coT rr a.ifi 1 you U1TI.Ji.. cRE£-fS ... \ \ r-JoW 1 f~£5}·1f'1ArJ J yoU kNM liS f\JoT N tc..£. --ro MAk£ -F\JN OF f:Ei\E- f tiL5 DOrJ£ A t-oT c>P ,..___..,...... Df'V~5) AN.D HE-'S ('JOT ~tS 10{>E.Ttfe:R H£ 1 S ft rJlc,£ ~ oY, ft ND wE SHtxJWrJ T ue.. --ro HIM ftNJ) f(}T HIM 0 tJ uosr to HAI}-t. f() ,.J f IJJsle-flD.J L£rS rtff t\ LJT B~B urJ!)U!. HIS E&tl m\' 16 J..rr/ -.-,.n I / ItS (Jji;.. ARt:/ ~

! ! 's r, y 's w CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/14, 1986 · Page 17 PERSONALS . . - ~-,-----·-- Amy 0., Your doing great! Keep up the good work and don't get discouraged! We all love you! Van- Love, Mom \ The stick'' is over 17 you better think twice. Morgan & Jacki · Little Debbie- Congratulation~ on your acceptance to GW. You are truly a woman of the eighties. EP and Friends A.F.~Rern,ember to take care of that fly-the roommate. · Lana- Congratulations! I am so proud of you! Love, your fellow fluff eater I miss you. EFD-I hope you had an amazing birthday! We'll have Congratulations to the new Tri- · to' celebrate! SSSSSSS Delt sisters. We love you- Corey, J en & Dina Remember: With eternal pledges come eternal pledge pranks! Debbie z.-Happy ? We must go out again soon. · Maybe we can start a brawl. ShariW Bowler-My excuse Friday night was that it was cold out. What's your excuse? Wendy Woo-Why are you pointing at me? Congratulations. to the newest sisters of Delta Gamma! (Hey, were you new, old, ·or classic anyway?) Congratulations to the new brothers of Phi Sigma Kappa! We're proud to have the ten of you as our new big brothers! Love, your little sisters. Congrats Feather and L.B.- You made it through the week. ILY,D Curious (Todd), We know each other. (You know who I am}. No more messages. Intrigued Acquaintance We missed your face, in this place. Welcome Home, Christine! ! ! An awesome gal at Union College said, \Be happy for me. I deserve it.\ \I never met an eggplant I didn't like,'' a famous politician once said. -CLIP AND SAVE- At Casa Mia or Peter Pause, 0 purple eggplant you have no flaws-that we know of. Gayle, Happy secretaries week! The Club WATASHI NO ATARASHI ROOMMATE, NIHON EH IKIMASUKA? SUGOH ANATA WA ICIDBAN DESU. GUM- BATER NEH! Cabin--maybe we cap get some more papers in Loudonville! I owe you one! Congratulations to the O.A.'s and alternates for orientation 1986. Kenny L. and Sean C. -What ... Wesson Oil? DREAM ON! ! ! ! M.G.-''Congratulations'' Rocks, Coffee, or ... Juice? Rob and Chris, Congrats you Phi Sig Brothers! You finally made it! How does it feel? Love, Andrea P.S. 62. Deeply moving and strangely compelling (includes Kentucky Fried Chicken). Check Library Reserve Room. Dr.D Erika-We want our headless hooker back! feel better. Voices from DG 104: \Next crisis! Take a number!\ PRACTICE YOUR SPOONLESS JELLO EATING NOW-The Olympics are coming soon-(May 23) Ruggerettes-Love those STP- P's {sexually transmitted penalty plays) Nice pledge project D.G.-Now we can go bush diving in the privacy of our own home. \Bunnies\ players at Sigma X-thanks for the hospitality- \bunnies\ players at O.G. Lisa, I still mean what I wrote on your door way back. No' kidding. Campus Protestant Ministry Lenten Communion Services' Thursday Afternoons 5:45 .. 6:15 Weeks 6 thru 10 _Milano Lounge D.O., e w gross, what is that on your bed! Luv, w.z. C-you're doing it on the U. Boathouse Gamma Phi- get psyched for inspiration week. We're finally going to be initiated! Yeh! Her t-time is over and the crowd goes wild--AHHHH ... Even though (contrary to popular belief) my carpet does need moisturizer! Gar.nm.i phi congratulates the newly initiated brothers of Sigma Chi, TDChi, Phi Sig, AEPi, Beta, and tne sisters of SDT and ODD. . Karen, I never ...... knew Boathouse Katie, I never ..... knew you were such a qualified president .. Boathouse 'l'o all at Gamma Phi Beta! Hope everything is great this term. Sorry I'm not here. Miss you guys. See you on .May 2nd. Love, Nancy Dave, Rob, Gail, Marc, Tim- Good luck on the great year you've already started. You are far and wide the best officers in any clUb in the District! · ++Jeff ACC Circle K- Thanks for coming by. You can party with us anytime! ! ! -Union College Circle K Gwen- . Goodluck on a great year. We are proud to have you represent . us to the District. You will show them the quality and class Which Union represents. -Union College Circle K Hey Wench, I like your hat! . Congratulations! Love, Chris and Charlie Katie and Amy-It will be a tough battle-but we can do it. I ·. want yott to know you're both very special. Love, Kim Drew, Thanks for a good time and a successful dinner. Congr_atulations! Tim Fiji pledges, You guys threw an amazing party! Thanks! EL--You told me to put this in, I . really don't have much to say .•. Come by and visit and we'll make plans to mobilize the forces to MARYland. Union College Circle K \The needs of the many out- weigh the needs of the few .... or the one.\ RLL- \That's the trouble with liking nice guys, They just like you back ... and that's all.'' Thanks for . an amazing weekend at the Herbie. I'm glad that we got a chance to get even closer. You're really special. I LOVE YOU TOO! Hey, I loved the comics. They · made me laugh. Now ... who sent HLM them. w · To D-Chi new initiates! Congratulations guys ... So glad you made it! Dan~ Confucius say: Never let pledge sit behind brother in class. He get away with mur- der. · ~The Accomplice JMW-HA! Dan H-Congrats baby! Welcomebacktothe real world. Missed ya! Di Drew, Ann, Gail, Anju- Congratulations on a great year. Your success with our club will be seen for years to come. -Jeff Loop, The FOG has lifted. Congrats! C&Babes K., A., K., Keep stniling guys-and don't forget, I'm always here If you need a smile for yourselves. Love, Andrea . Jen T.-For the ultimate ex:- cuse. Is there anything having a serious boyfriend.for four years won't cover? -Your crescent sis To all G Phi B's I never ..... had a better time on a retreat. Thanks for everything. Weaving anyone? . YourP.T., (A Boat Person) Ash, You and Snoopy are pretty special. I'm really glad we're a team! __:The decision maker • May lrd . .. bus leaves Richmond House at 7 a.m .. and return at Midnight ... only $10 .. 00 per person!!! Sign up in Richmond 220, or ca II x6842 by April 28th, at the very latest! ! , ? '

Page lH CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24~ !986 C!tnncnrnitnsis SPORTS ·, ' Men's Tennis Looks to Improve By CHAD LEVIN The men's tennis season got underway on April 7th beneath ove1·cast skies at Skidmore College. After only a week pf practice, the team looked sloppy losing 7-2 to a consistent Skidmore squad. Several of the losses were close, three setters, however. the team knew better things were yet to come. Three days later on our home courts, a more polished Union team crushed Hamilton, with everyone winning in either singles or doubles play. This evened the Dutchman record at 1-1 as they prepared to face a powerful AlbBilY squad. On the 15th, SUNY Albany traveled to Union's grounds and battled the Dutchmen for over three holll's. The outcome was not decided until the doubles play w.hen Albany pulled away for a 6;..3 victory. Despite the loss, the team played well and everyone, including coach AI Bagnoli, was pleased with the quality of play. This year's team benefits from relatively good d~pth. and excellent youth. Returnees are senior captain Bruce Gold· smith, juniors Doug Bank and Dave Lesch, and sophomores Greg Bell and George Walker; Newcomers are freshman Chad Levin and senior Dave Factor. After the slow start, • • everyone's play has been . steadily improving. Greg is off to an espeoially good start at first singles with a couple of good wins, particularly against Albany, and Chad is thus far undefeated:. in !tis singles play. Unhappy w1th the team's lackluster performance agablst Skidmore, Coach Bagnoli was pleased with the team's last two efforts and is confident aoout the future. With seven matches and postseason play still ahea.d, the prospects for a successful and exciting season are gcl)d. . • The team hopes more fails will come out to see some of the good tennis that is still ahea.d. Track Takes 2nd at Hartwick lnvy • • • Remillard gains llalf of Union's points· By ANDY HODGKIN This past weekend at the Hartwick Invitational the Union men's track team fared quite well as they finished second, edging out Mohawk Valley by two points. RIT easily won the meet by accumulating 197 points to the Dutchmen's 105. The Union scoring was highlighted by six individual first place finishes. All-America Scott Remillard claimed half of the Union first - (J) 1J 0 :::l +- r.J') > .0 .8 0 .!: c. place points with wins in the hammer throw, discus and the shot put. His throws, good for thirty points, were 32.11m, 44.11m, and 13.78m respec- tively. Sophomore Wayne Lacy claimed first place honors in the , pole vault with a jump ()£ 12'0\. In the 800 meter event, Rob Mohlar ran his fastest tirne of the year in winning in 1 :54.7. The final winning event for Union came in the 4x100 relay as the team of Lacy, Todd Allen, Steve Hayes and Rich Romer cruised to a 44.2 second win. Allen contributed sixteEn more points to the final SC()re with two second place finishes in the individual sprints with. a 11.4 second time in the lOOm and a 22.4 second split in the zoo meter event. The Dutchmen finished up the scoring for tlle day with another fine team performance in the 4:x;400 relay by taking second place honors in 3:30.4. The ffif~mbers of this relay squad were Hayes, Mi.lte Reed,. Romer, and Mohlar. '· .·.····\\·\\' '\\ ' ~. . Catcher Julie Gallo makes contact. Women's softball team has won 4 in a row and has outscored their opponents in those 4 games. PRIZES* PRIZES* PRIZES* PRIZES W·RUC89.7 SPORTSLINE Tuesday Thursday Saturday 12:00 12:00 9:45-10:30 TRIVIA* TRIVIA* TRIVIA* TRIVIA Fencing Dutchmen Make Their ~oint By MICHAEL MILLETI' Union's Fencing Club demonstrated its prowess in the spring trimester's Qpening competition, an invitational - with R.P.I., SUNY Albany, and leading local clubs. In the men's openipg division, Union's Jay Davis began the competition with a 5-1 victory over his op- ponent. This was quickly folloWed by the victories of Paul Levine, and Mike Millett. In this division, Jay, Paul, and Mike won all four of their four bouts. The four-man team of Davis, Levine, Millett, and Marein won 72 of the 123 touches awarded in their division, and 12 of the 16 overall bouts. In the men's finals· division, president Danny Choi. led the team with three wins, Stephen Einason followed with two wins, and David Lewis scored another. Thideam scored 58 of the 120 touches awarded. Andrew Fraser, a member of the men's finals division, added to the team's prestige by winning third place in the Sabre Fencing category. Overall Union's men's team won the majority of the foil bouts, 18 of 32 bouts fenced. In the women's fencing division, Barbara Pond, Union's only female contestant, won 10 of the 26 touches scored during her - competition, placing her seventh in the women's finals. The tea..m, although new in statlll'e, has demonstrated itS talent and future potential. The Fencing Dutchmen are en- thusiastic about their remaining two competitions and · hope to continue their record of excellence. ' DUTCHMENSPORTSWEEK APRIL 24- APRIL 3D THURSDAY 4/24 Baseball at North Adams FRIDAY 4/25 Women's Lacrosse at Russell Sage Tennis at Colgate SATURDAY 4/26 Baseball at Middlebury (2) Softball at Hamilton (2) Men's Lacrosse at Hamilton Track at Hartwick I nvy Golf at Williams,AIC, Trinity Golf at Hartwick lnvy Be~sebaLI at Albany State Softba II vs. RP I Track- Union Open Tennis vs. Siena SUNDAY 4/27 TUESDAY4/29 WEDNESDAY 4730 Baseball vs. Siena Men's Lacrosse vs. RPI 3:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:00p.m.· l:OOp.m. l:OOp,m. 2:00 3:00p.m. · 3:30p .. m, 3:00p.m. 4:00p.m, 7:.00 p.m. Anc::trew McMahon about to launch iavelin in re~ent meet. - Ill - I

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 Qlnncoroitnsin SPORTS I I I .,• . Men's Tennis Looks to Improve By CHAD LEVIN The men's tennis season got underway on April 7th beneath overcast skies at Skidmore Col'lege. After only a week pf practice, the team looked sloppy losing 7-2 to a consistent Skidmore squad. Several of the losses were close, three setters, however, the team knew better ·.hings were yet to come. Three days later on our home courts, a more poHshed Union team corushed Hamilton, with everyone winning in either singles or doubles play. This evened the Dutchman record at 1-1 as they prepared to face a powetiul Albany squad. On the 15th, SUNY Albany traveled to Union's grounds and battled the Dutchmen for over three hours. The outcome was not decided until the doubles play when Albany puHed away for a 6-3 victory. Despite the loss, tbe team played well and everyone, including coach Al Bagnoli, was pleased with the quality of play. This year's team benefits from relatively good depth and excellent youth. Returnees are senior captain Bruce Gold- smitn, juniors Deug Bank and Dave Lesch, and sophomores Greg Bell and George Walker. Newcomers are freshman Chad Levin and senior Dave Factor. After the slow start, everyone's play has been steadily improving. Greg is off . to an especially good start at first singles with a couple of goad wins, particularly against Albany, and Chad is thus far • undefeated in his singles play. Unhappy with the team's lackluster performance against Skidmore, Coach Bagnoli was pleased with the team's last two efforts and is confident about the future. With seven matches and postseason play still ahead, the prospects for a successful and exciting season are good. The team hopes more fans will come out to see some of the good tennis that is still ahead. Track Takes 2nd at Hartwick lnvy • • • Remillard gains half of Union's points By ANDY HODGKIN This past weekend at the Hartwick Invitational the Union men's track team fared quite well as they finished second, edging out Mollawk Valley by two points. RIT easily won the meet by accumulating 197 points to the Dutchmen's 105. The Union scoring was highlighted by six individual first place finishes. All-America Scott Remillard claimed half of the Union first Cl> \C 0 :::J +- <f) > .0 0 +- 0 .c a. place points with wins in the hammer throw, discus and the shot put. His throws, good for thirty points, were 52.11m, 44.1lm, and 13.78m respec- tively. Sophomore Wayne Lacy claimed first place honors in the pole vault with a jump of 12'0\. In the 800 meter event, Rob Mohlar ran his fastest time of the year in winning in 1:54.7. The final winning event for Union came in the 4x100 relay as the team of Lacy, Todd Allen, Steve Hayes and Rich Romer cruised to a 44.2 second win. Allen contributed sixteen more points to the final score with two second place: finishes in the individual sprints with a 11.4 second time in the lOOm and a 22.4 second split in the 200 meter event. The Dutchmen finished up the scoring for the day with another fine team performance in the 4x400 relay by taking second place honors in 3:30.4. The mf~mbers of this relay squad we!'e Hayes, Mike Reed, Romer, and Mohlar. catcher Julie Gallo makes contact. Women's softball team has won 4 in a row and has outscored their opponents in those 4 games. PRIZES* PRIZES* PRIZES* PRIZES WRUC89.7 SPORTSLINE Tuesday Thursday Saturday 12:00 12:00 9:45-10:30 TRIVIA* TRIVIA* TRIVIA* TRIVIA Fencing Dutchmen Make Their Point Union's Fencing Club demonstrated its prowess in the spring trimester's opening competiti()n, an invitatianal · with R. P .I., SUNY Albany, and leading local clubs. In the men's opening division, Union's Jay Davis began the competition with a 5-1 victory over his op- ponent. 'I'his was quickly followed by the victories of Paul Levine, and Mike Millett. In this division, Jay, Paul, and Mike won all four ·of their four bouts. The four-rnan team of Davis, Levine, Millett, and Marein won 72 of the 123 touches awarded in their division, and 12 of t1:1e 16 overall bouts. In the men's finals division, president Danny Choi led the team with three wins, Stephen Einason followed with two wins, and David Lewis scored another. This team scored 58 of the 120 touches awarded. ANdrew Fraser, a member of the men's finals division, added to the team's prestige by winning third place in the Sabre Fencing category. Overall Union's men's team won the majority of the foil bouts, 18 of 32 bouts fenced. In the women's fencing division, Barbara Pond, Union's only female contestant, won 10 of the 2(i touches scored during her competition., placing her seventh in the women's finals. The team, although new in stature, has demonstrated its talent and future potential. The Fencing Dutchmen are en- thusiastic about their remaining two competitions and hope to continue their record of excellence. DUTCHMEN SP'ORTSWEEK APRIL24-APRIL30 THURSDAY4/24 Baseball at North Adams FRIDAY 4/25 Women's Lacrosse at Russell Sage Tennis at Colgate SATURDAY 4/26 Baseball at Middlebury (2) Softbal'l atHamilton (2) Men's Lacrosse at Hamilton Track at Hartwick lnvy Golf at Williams, AIC, Trinity Golf at Hartwick I nvy Baseba 11 at Albany State Softball vs. R PI Track· UnionOpen Tennis vs. Siena SUN DAY 4/27 TUESDAY4/29 WEDNESDAY 4/30 Baseball vs. Siena Men's Lacrosse vs. RPI 3:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 1 :00 p.m. 1 :00 p.m. 2:00 3:00p.m. 3:30p.m. 3:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 7:00p.m. Andrew McMahon aboutto lalJnch javelin in re~ent meet. Q) \C 0 :::J .... (/) > .0 0 0 .c a. - R w N CC tt ht T b: rt t1 D t€ b pi tE I I

CONCORDIENSJS, Apri/24, '1986 Athlete of the Week By .. D. A. LLOYD Baseball•football star Alex Rita has· been chosen as ·this week's Athlete of the Week. Now that it is spring, Alex is competing on tbe diamond with the same remarkable results as he did on the gridiron last fall. Through . 10 games, Alex is batting .429 with 15 hits and 18 runs scored, all of which lead the team. Last weekend, the Dutchinen traveled to Norwich to play a double-.neader and won both with the help of Alex's performance. The 5'10'', 185 lb. cen~ terfielder totaled six hits and two r.b.i's on the afternoon and continued his errorless play in the field to extend Union's winning season tQ 9-1. Being a hot hitter is nothing new to Alex: Alex Rita as he led the team his freshman year at .426 and was second last year with a ;359 batting average, makmg him a .405 career hitter. Last May, Alex went from. playing in Schenectady's Central Park to playing in New York's Shea Stadium in the New York State Coaches' All-star Game, in which he was the starting centerfielder. . Off the field, Alex con- o centrate.s his studies in g Managerial Economics and is a o.. brother of Beta Theta Pi. Alex, 0 a junior, is a native of Endicott, (/) NY where he attended Union.- Endicott High School. luggers Beat Oneonta: Look to Upstate Tourney By CHRISSHERIDAN Union's Rugby team has moved one step closer to the Upstate tournament after defeating Oneonta on Saturday, 6.;fJ. \We killed them in serum- downs\ said co-captain John Friske, \but our loose plflY ~Jl.~ . very sloppy. There was no way that they were going to score, but we also had a hard time scoring.\ Oneonta started the game off with a bang after stealing a pass down Union's line and running it back 45 yards towards Union's try-zone. However, the Oneonta rugger couldn't outrace the quick feet of Union's Steve . Delano who took him down, stopping Oneonta'S only real drive of the first half. As Union R~pt the ball down in Oneonta's end, the only points they could put together before half-time were on a penalty-kick by Tim Hopkins that put Union up 3-0. During the second half, Union still wasn't able to convert a try and again had to settle for a Hopkins' penalty kick that ended the game with Union ahead, 6-6. With the win, however, came perhaps an even more im- portant loss. Tim Riley, one of Union's best runners and co- captain hurt some of the ligaments in his knee during the second half ofthe game. It looks at this point that Riley may not be able to play in the Upstate tournament-championships this· upcoming wee~end. BTeamWins Union's KUier B team showed their strength in the second game of the day. They porn· meled Oneonta's B team by a lopsided margin of 27-3. Oneonta got up on the goard first with a penalty kick early in the first half to put them up, 3·0. it wasn't long, however, before Un~ol) . tied it at three apiece when Pat Dicierbo hit one of his own. From there, Union never looked back, despite yet another great Union loss in rookie wing- forward Rick. Cruez, who ripped the ligaments in his anlde and can expect to be in a cast for quite some time once the swelling goes down. Jeff Albrecht, one of the A team's second rows, came in as a substitution and showed both Union and Oneonta's B -teams how it should be done when he ran in Union's next three trys. He ran his 6' 4\ 205-pound frame through half of Oneonta's team to get his first of the day. Dicierbo converted the try to put Union ahead, 9-3. Albrecht's second try was as pretty as they come. Oneonta started with the ball, and booted it up the field to hopefully gain better field position. However, Dicierbo was right there and showed that he can run as well as he kicks, as he raced almost 50 yards up the field to dump the ball off into the hands of Jeff Zorne. Zome ran as far as he could before it was tiine he gave it. up to ... who else? ... none other than Jeff Albrecht who received the pass and raced in for his second try of the game. Again Dicierbo hit the conversion and Union was up 21-3. Albrecht's third was simply a heads Up play-he pounced on a loose ball in the try-zone. Again Dicierbo was successful on his erid and Union found themselves up another six, 15-3. \It was my first ex- perience at wing-forward,\ Albrecht said. \It was a lot of fun. I was impressed with the way the B players were playing, especially Jeff Zorne and Dave (Morrisson).\ Zome Impressive But Union wasn't finished. Zorne again got the ball, and not only showed his running ability, but also showed that he has the running intelligence needed to play rugby. After running with the ball for several yards, Zorne was brought down by an Oneonta player. No sooner did he hit the ground and release the ball (in rugby, when you are tackled you must let go of the ball before you are down) than he stood back up, scooped up the ball again, ran some more, and pitched the ball back to Jeff Wilson who added just a little more icing on Union's cake when he raced in for the try. Dicierbo remained perfect on his conversions, and the final score read 27-3. \Jeff (Zorne) ran hard,\ said teammate Tom Muzzinigro, ''spinning his way down the field and passing off to other · teammates to score the trys.\ Zorne felt that a big part of the victory lay in the fact that they controlled all of the rucks and the line executed their plays well. \The B side line was very solid,\ he said. \Pat (Dicierbo) had a very good game at fullback, and Tom Muzzinigt·o was impressive. at fly-half.\ . Jane Barkin splits defenders on way down field. Women lax lost this game to Middlebury 16-11. P~ge 19 ·:<!t~ncnrilttnsts SPORTS Charlie Slotnlk :LOokin.g at Sports Who is the best atblete at Union College? Indeed,. this is a tough question, and one that many people could argue about for some time. However, the best athlete at Union might really be more of a non-athlete that few people know. Scott Remillard could be Union's best athlete. The giant 6'7\ 255 pounder from Syracuse throws the harruner, the 35 lb. weight throw, the disc, and the shot put for the Union track team. In his four years here at Union, Remillard has dominated these events, especially the hammer, and the 35 lb. weight throw, more than any other ahtlete at Union has contributed to their respective team. Remillard's accomplis\} ments are more than impressive. Be won the 35 lb. weight throw at the NCAA Division 3 championships last year by establishing a new NCAA record. Remillard's Hercules- like throw of 61 '7\ eclipsed the old mark by 10 inches. He also finished third in the NCAA outdoor championships last year, and was third in the Empire State Games over the summer. Moreover, Remillard has been M.V.P. of the Union track team every season since the Spring of his sophomore year. Scott Remillard is not a non· athlete; which is evident by his dedication and training. Remillard adheres to a com- prehensive weight program, 15· 20 hours of practice alone every week all year, and travels across New York State to receive instruction from expert coaches. However, Remillard admits his events are not ones that reqmre tremendous athletic ability in order to be successful. \These are technique events. One does not have to be in top physical condition to do well. The key to longer throws is improving one's own technique,\ Remillard said. The strongest, quickest, and most well coordinated athletes such as Mark Gastineau am Dan Marino would have troubk picking up the hammer. and hurling it 200 feet. \Essentially this is an old man's sport. Your best hanuner throwers in the OLympics are 30 years old. This is a sport that requires tremendous commitment, since one must continually practice in order to improve,•~ Remillard said. Scott Remillard shows similar dedication in the classroom as well. Remillard is an electrical engineering major, and a member of the Tau Beta Pi, and Ata Kappa Nu honor societies. Remillard believes success on the field leads to success in the classroom. \When I'm throwing well is when I do the best in school. After I won the NCAA's, I got a 4.0 GPA, something I never accomplished before,'' Remillard said. This is a student athlete who has much to be proud of, and much to look forward to. Remillard has received several impressive job offers, but will stay at Union to study for his master's in electrical engineering, con- tinuing to throw on his own, instead of entering the work force. Although only a DivisiQn 3 athlete, Remillard is able to compete on the Division 1 level. This weekend he will travel to Hanover, NH for the Dartmouth Relays, where he will compete against many Division 1 athletes. Furthermore, during the first week of June he will compete in the NCAA Division 1 championships in Indianapolis. Very few people watch track meets, and therefore very few people have seen Remillard throw in competition. Moreover, he is unable to practice with the team because his throwing would interfere with women's softball practice. Thus, Remillard usually practices between 10 a.m. and noon. Since Remillard rarely throws in front of a crowd, one might believe he has never experienced any pressure while in competition. But recently in a meet against RPI, Union was losing by one point with only one event left, the shot put, not Remillard's favorite. After the first round o{ throws, Remillard was losing. Remillard would have to beat the RPI shot putter in the second round in order for Union to achieve a tie. Rernil,lard performed under pressure, and the Dutchinen escaped without a loss. W. Lax No Longer Undefeated • By ANNE HOBAN and WENDY ALLEN The Dutchwomen finished a tough week as they tied one and lost one to Army and Mid- dlebury, respectively. On Saturday, the LAX team traveled to West Point where they were forced to accept a tie of 12 to 12 with no overtime allowed. Elizabeth Wallach and Heidi Kahn both did a great job in stopping half of Army's shots. Jane . Barkin led the Dut- chwomen in scoring with five goals, followed by Courtney Lynch and Bonnie Faulkner with two apiece. Monday afternoon, in the rain, Union bowed to the con- sistent power of Middlebury. With a final score of 16 to 11, Union stayed within one or two points throughout the first hall, holding the lead a few times. The score and play reflected the vast improvement in Union's Women's Lacrosse compared to last year's loss to Middlebury of 23 to 2. The J. V. team remains un· defeated with a win at RPI and West Point. Katie Hamilton led the Dutchwomen in scoring with four goals, with Barbara Brady, Anne Rosenau and Mary O'Sullivan adding to the total to make the final score 9 to 6. The West Point game added the fifth win to the J.V.'s undefeated record. This week, Union travels to Russell Sage on Friday, Hamilton on Saturday; and Oneonta on Tuesday, the last three games before the New York State Championships held on May 2 and 3 .

CONCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 Athlete of the Week :By n~ A. LLOYD Baseball-football star Alex Rita has been chosen as this week's Athlete of the Week. Now that it is spring, Alex is competing on the diamond with the same remarkable results as he did on the gridiron last fall. Through 10 games, Alex is batting .429 with 15 hits and 18 runs scored, all of which lead the team. Last weekend, the Dutchmen traveled to Norwich to play a double-header and won both with the help of Alex's performance. The 5'10\ 185 lb. cen- terfielder totaled six hits and two r.b.i's on the aftern()on and continued his errorless play in the field to extend Union's winning season to 9-1. Being a hot hitter is nothing new to Alex Alex Rita as he led the team his freshman year at .426 and was second last year with a .359 batting average, making him a .405 career hitter. Last May, Alex went from playing in Schenectady's Central Park to playing in New York's Shea Stadium in the New York State Ceaches' AU-star Game, in which he was the starting centerfielder. Off the field, Alex con- o centrates his studies in +-0 .c Managerial Ecanomics and is a a. brother of Beta Theta Pi. Alex, 0 a juniar, is a native of Endicott, Vl NY where he attended Union- Endicott High Scheol. Ruggers Beat Oneonta: Look to Upstate Tourney By CHRIS SHERIDAN Union's Rugby team has moved one step closer to the Upstate tournament after defeating Oneonta on Saturday, 6-Q. \We killed them in serum- downs\ said co-captain John Friske, \but our loose play was very sloppy. There was no way that they were going to score, but we also had a hard time scoring.\ Oneonta started the game off with a bang after stealing a pass down Union's line and running it back 45 yards towards Union's try-zone. However, the Oneonta rugger couldn't outrace the quick feet of Union's Steve Delano who took him down, stopping Oneonta's only real drive of the first half. As Union kept the ball down in Oneonta's end, the only points they could put together before half-time were on a penalty-kick by Tim Hopkins that put Union up 3-o. During the second half, Union still wasn't able to convert a try and again had to settle for a Hopkins' penalty kick that ended the game with Union ahead, 6..(). With the win, however, came perhaps an even more im- portant loss. Tim Riley, one of Union's best runners and co- captain hurt some of the ligaments in his knee during the second half of the game. It looks at this point that Riley may not be able to play in the Upstate tournament-championships this upcoming weekend. BTeamWins Union's Killer B team showed their strength in the second game of the day. They pom- meled Oneonta's B team by a lopsided margin of ~7-3. Oneonta got up on 'the goard first with a penalty l~ick early in the first half to put them up, 3-0. It wasn't long, however, before Union tied it at thr~e apiece when Pat Dicierbo llit one of his own. From there, Uaion never looked back, despite yet another great Union loss in r()iJkie wing- forward Rick Cruez, wllo ripped the ligaments in his .ank.le and can expect to be ia a cast for quite some time once the swelling goes do-wn. Jeff Albrecht, one of tile A. team's second rows, came in as a substitution and shfJwed both Union and Oneonta's B teams how it should be d()ne when he ran in Union's next three trys. He ran his 6'4\ 205-pound frame through half of Oneonta's team to get his first of the day. Dicierbo converted the try to put Union ahead, 9-3. Albrecht's second try was as pretty as they come. Oneonta started with the ball, and booted it up tile field to hopefully gain better field position. However, Dicierbo was right there and sbowed that he can run as well as be kicks, as he raced ahnost 5() yards up the field to dwnp the ball off into the hands of Jeff Zome. Zome ran as far as he could before it was time he gave it up to ... who else? ... none other than Jeff Albrecht who received the pass and raced in for his second try of the game. Again Dicierbo hit the conversion and 1Jnion was up 21-3. Albrecht's third was simply a heads up play-he pounced on a loose ball in the try-zone. Again Di~ierbo was successful on his end and Union found themselves up another six, 15-3. \It was my first ex- perience at wing-forward,\ Albrecht said. \It was a lot of fun. I was impressed with the way the B players were playing, especially Jeff Zorne and Dave (Morrisson).\ Zorne Impressive But Union wasn't finished. Zorne again got the ball, and not only showed his running ability, but also showed that he has the running intelligence needed to play rugby. After running with the ball for several yards, Zorne was brought down by an Oneonta player. No sooner did be hit the ground and release the ball (in rugby, when you are tackled you must let go of the ball before you are duwn) than he stood back up, scooped up the ball again, ran some more, and pitched the ball back to Jeff Wilson who added just a little more icing on Union's cake when he raced in for the try. Dicierbo remained perfect on his conversions, and the final score read 27-3. \Jeff (Zorne) ran hard,\ said teammate Tom Muzzinigro, \spinning his way down the field and passing off to other teammates to score the trys.\ Zorne felt that a big part of the victory lay in the fact that they controlled all of the rucks and the line executed their plays well. \The B side line was very solid,\ he said. \Pat (Dicierbo) had a very good game at fullback, and Tom Muzzinigro was impressive. at fly-half.\ Page 19 ·o:Lnncnriliensis :SP'O R TS Charlie Slotnlk Looking at Spo~rts Who is the best athlete at Union College? Indeed, this is a tough question, and one that many people could argue about for some time. However, the best athlete at Union might really be more of a non-athlete that few people know. Scott Remillard could be Union's best athlete. The giant 6'7\ 255 pounder from Syracuse throws the hammer, the 35 lb. weight throw, the disc, and the shot put for the Union track team. In his four years here at Union, Remillard has dominated these events, especially the hammer, and the 35 lb. weight throw, more than any 0ther ahtlete at Union has contributed to their respective team. Remillard's accomplishments are more than impressive. He won the 35 lb. weight throw at the NCAA Division 3 championships last year by establishing a new NCAA record. Remillard's Hercules- like throw of 61'7\ eclipsed the old mark by 10 inches. He also finished third in the NCAA outdoor championships last year, and was third in the Empire State Games over the summer. Moreever, Remillard has been M.V.P. of the Union track team every season since the Spring of his sophomore year. Scott Remillard is not a non- athlete; which is evident by his dedication and training. Remillard adheres to a com- prehensive weight program, 15- 20 hours of practice alone every week all year, and travels across New York State to receive instruction from expert coaches. However, Remillard admits his events are not ones that require tremendous athletic ability in order to be successful. \These are technique events. One does not have to be in top physical condition to do well. The key to longer throws is improving one's own technique,\ Remillard said. The strongest, quickest, and most well coordinated athletes such as Mark Gastineau an< Dan Marino would have troubll picking up the hammer and hurling it 200 feet. \Essentially this is an old man's sport. Your best hammer throwers in the Olympics are 30 years old. This is a sport that requires tremendous commitment, since one must continually practice in order to improve,\ Remillard said. Scott Remillard shows similar dedication in the classroom as well. Remillard is an electrical engineering major, and a member of the Tau Beta Pi, and Ata Kappa NH honor societies. Remillard believes success on the field leads to success in the classroom . \When I'm throwing well is when I do the best in school. Mter I won the NCAA's, I got a 4.0 GPA, something I never accomplished before,\ Remillard said. This is a student athlete who has much to be proud of, and much to look forward to. Remillard bas received several impressive job offers, but will stay at Union to study for his master's in electrical engineering, con- tinuing to throw on his own, instead of entering the work force. Although only a Division 3 athlete, Remillard is able to compete on the Division 11evel. This weekend he will travel to Hanover, NH for the Dartmouth Relays, where he will compete against many Division 1 athletes. Furthermore, during the first week of June he will compete in the NCAA Division 1 championships in Indianapolis. Very few people watch track meets, and therefore very few people have seen Remillard throw in competition. Moreover, he is unable to practice with the team because his throwing would interfere with women's softball practice. Thus, Remillard usually practices between 10 a.m. and noon. Since Remillard rarely throws in front of a crowd, one might believe he has never experienced any pressure while in competition. But recently in a meet against RPI, Union was losing by one point with only one event left, the shot put, not Remillard's favorite. After the first round of throws, Remillard was losing. Remillard would have to beat the RPI shot putter in the second round in order for Union to achieve a tie. Remillard perf()rmed under pressure, and the Dutchmen escaped without a loss. W. Lax No Longer Undefeated By ANNE HOBAN and WENDY ALLEN The Dutchwomen finished a tough week as they tied one and l()st one to Army and Mid- dlebury, respectively. On Saturday, the LAX team traveled to West Point where they were forced to accept a tie of 12 to 12 with no overtime allowed. Elizabeth Wallach and Heidi Kahn both did a great job in stopping half of Army's shots. Jane Barkin led the Dut- chwomen in scoring with five goals, followed by Courtney Lynch and Bonnie Faulkner with two apiece. Monday afternoon, in the rain, Union bowed to the con- sistent power of Middlebury. With a final score of 16 to 11, Union stayed within one or two points throughout the first hall, holding the lead a few times. The score and play reflected the vast improvement in Union's Women's Lacrosse compared to last year's lm;s to Middlebury of 22 to 2. The J.V. team remain;: un- defeated with a win at RPI and West Point. Katie Hamilton ll'i the Dutchwomen in scoring with four goals, with Barbara Brady, Anne Rosenau and Mary O'Sullivan adding to the total to make the final score 9 to 6. The West Point game added the fifth win to the J.V.'s Wldefeated record. This week, Union travels to Russell Sage on Friday. Hamilton on Saturday, and Oneonta on Tuesday, the last three games before the New York State Championships held on May 2 and 3.

.. Ql '0 0 ::> - (/) >- .0 ~ ..c: a. --- - ----- ·-~-- --· ---- ------·------ -·-·· ·---·-- ·-- - --- -- -- ___ ..._~ ............... - ,_ ~ ·- CQNCORDIENSIS, Apri/24, 1986 Lax- Big Win Over Siena.· See Story Below Tennis Gets On Track See Story PagelS Thursday, Aprfl 24, 1986 Laxmen Thrash Siena,l6-0 ByCPSIS The Union College Laxmen upped their record to 4-2 by soundly defeating Division I Siena College 16-0 under the lights on Monday night. This win broke Union's two game losing streak, and a win of this magnitude could catipult the laxmen past their remaining oponents. This was the first shutout for a Union lacrosse team in eight years, and was the second of three wins needed to capture the Capital District Cup. Teams in this tourney include Union, Albany, Siena, and RPI. Union only needs to defeat RPI in two weeks to claim the cup for the second year in a row. Monday nights game started out slowly as Union pulled ahead 2-0 in the first quarter, which was marred with sloppy play. However, Union regrouped in the second quarter, scoring three goals, and again holding Siena scoreless. In the second half, the Dutchmen poured it on, scoring six and five goals in the third and forth quarters. The defense of Union again came up big, as Siena was unable to find the cage for a score. With this 16-0 victory, the entire Union squad had excellent games. On offense, Tri-captain Andrew Ross led the scoring with three goals and an assist. Other midfielder's came up big for Union as well, with Blake Henderson scoring 2 goals and an assist, Dave DeBerardinis with two goals, Tri-captain Mike Weisberger had a goal and an assist as did Lenny LaMonica. Both Pete Agricola and Jim Olney netted one goal each. On attack for the Lam1en, Phil Horn led the scoring with two· goals and an assist. Tony DaRin had two goals while Andy Albert and John Romeo had a goal and an assist, respectively. The Union defense, led by Sophomore goalie John Thorne, played solidly for the entire contest. Thorne recorded nine saves and let none pass for the Union shutout. On Defense, Tim Meyer, Greg Leahey, Mark Leyton, Gary Cornick, and Chuck Weber had exceptionally strong games for the Dut- chmen. This win sends the laxmen into a tough match at Williams on Wednesday with a new winning attitude. Baseball On Record Path By RICH BARTOSCH Union baseball is on a record pace as they are experiencing some of the best offense in years. The Dutchmen beat RPI last Thursday 11-9 and this past weekend swept Norwich in . a doubleheader. Union beat RPI for the second time this year scoring a total of 24 runs. Starting against RPI was Senior Ted Cannon. Ted pitched 6 innings striking out 6, while RPI scored 5 runs (3 earned). Ted was relieved by Tim Valachovic with Union up 7-5. Tim gave up 2 runs on seeing eye hits to tie the score, but Union would take the lead for good, as Tim now 3-0 got the win. Tim didn't finish as Coach Reynold found it necessary to go to hiS bullpen. He had lefty Dan Lazarek and righty stopper Dave Giordano warming up. Dave was called on to finish, allowing no runs to keep his ERA at zero and upping his saves to two. Pacing the Dutchmen was Dan Klinger with 3 ·hits, one being a powerful blast over the 380 ft. mark in left center. Behind Dan with two hits were Alex Rita, Pete Cohan, Steve Alves, and Reinhard Walker. Rita also had two stolen bases making it easy for Dave Anderson, Walker, and Andy Markopulos to collect 2 RBI's each. Union combined for 15 hits. In their next game Union experienced a very long trip to Norwich arriving just in time for the 1:00 start. But the lack of time to prepare themselves had no effect on their hitting as they pounded out 11 runs on 10 hits winning 11-7. Ken Horan started (2-1) and got the win as Steve Alves got the save by coming in with bases loaded and getting out of the inning without a runner scoring. Leading in the assault was Scott Goldsmith with 3 hits followed by Alex Rita with 2 hits. Pete Cohan collected 3 RBI's, Dan Klinger and Andy Markopoulos added 2 each. In the second game Bill Weidman started with Scott Perlman and Steve Alves relieving. Steve once again collected a save making it his second of the day. The Dutchmen received 4 hits from Alex Rita and 2 from Senior Tom Barrett. Adding 3 RBI's each were Tom Barrett and Glenn Kata while Ale:8: added two more. Union com- bined for 8 hits hut scored 14 runs in the 14-o win over the Cadets. Union swept and upped their record to 9-1. ·Union is playing some of the most exciting ball ever, but they need your support in their ef- forts. Union won't he home until Wednesday, April 3oth as they play a away game stretch. But on April 30th they will take on Division I Siena at Central Park (behind Price Chopper) at 3:30. Come out and support your Dutchmen. - JJNlON LACROSSE STATS 6GAMES: 4-2 Groundballs # Total Weisberge 32 Scoring Goals-Assts.-Pts. Horn 30 Darin 7-13-20 Henderson 27 Romeo 11·8·19 Ross 25 Horn 17-1·18 Darin 18 Ross (>-4·10 , Meyer 17 Weisberger 3,3·6 McCormick 16 Henderson 3-3·6 Leahey 16 Agricola 2·0·2 Agricola 15 DeBerardlnls 2·0·2 LaMonica 12 Duffy 2-0·2 DeBerardinls 12 LaMonica 1-1-2 Romeo 11 oln~y 1-0-i Cornick 10 Morton 1·0·1 Olney 10 Albert J.O·l Leyton 9 Morton 8 Thorne 6 Shooting Shots-Goats-Pet. Duffy 5 Uccellini 1·1-1.000 Weber 4 Horn 4'6·l7·.370 Ramsay 3 Albert 3·1·.333 Ussellini 3 Ross 19·6·.3i6 Albert 2 DeBerardinis 7·2· .286 Arnold 2 Romeo 44·11·.250 Lloyd 2 Duffy 8·2·.250 Bray 1 Darin 31·7·.226 Cepkauskas 1 Agricola 9·2·.222 Goalie Saves-Shots-Pet. Henderson 15-3·.200 Thorne 78 112 .696 Weisberger 16·3·.186 Morton 7-1-.143 Face-Offs Won-Total-Pet. Olney 9·1·.111 Ross 46-76·.605 LaMonica 14-1-.071 Henderson 16·26·.615 Lloyd 1·0-.000 McCormick 4-8·.500 Ramsay 1-0-.000 LaMonica 2·4·.500 Cepkauskas 1·0·.000 Arnold 0·1·.000 Arnold 2·0-.000 Tri·Captain· Andy Ross getting up-ended after scoring· one of his 3 goals in Monday night's trouncing of Siena. HITTING STATS SB/ Player GP AB R H BA 1B 38 HR RBI SBA SO Alves 8 26 8 5 .192 1 2 415 1 Anderson 7 16 6 7 .438 1 6 414 1 Barrett 8 24 9 9 .375 2 9 3/3 4 Cohan 10 29 3 9 .310 4 8 0/0 10 Connolly 1 0 0 0 .000 0 0/0 0 Giordano 0 0 0 0 .000 0 0/0 0 Goldsmith 4 9 4 4 .444 1 0/0 1 Horan 4 13 4 4 .308 5 2/2 2 Jal<ubzyk 6 11 3 3 .273 2 7 0/0 4 Kat a 8 16 6 5 .313 6 414 2 Klinger 9 34 12 12 .353 1 1 11 2/4 5 Markopoulos 9 22 10 6 .273 11 1/1 0 O'Leary 3 6 2 2 .333 T 2/2 0 Reynolds 6 11 1 2 .182 0 0/0 6 Rita 10 35 18 15 .429 1 1 li 619 1 Valachovic, Tracy 2 5 0 1 .200 1 0/0 2 Walker 9 24 9 6 .250 3 1/2 5 Lazarel< 4 0 3 0 .000 0 0/0 0 Totals 10 281 98 90 .312 13 2 4 82 79 27/36 44 (

Page 20 CONCORDIENS/S, Apri/24, 1986 Lax- Big Win Over Siena See Story Below Tennis Gets On Track See Story Page 18 Thursday, April24, 1986 Laxmen Thrash Siena,l6-0 ByCPSIS The Union College Laxmen upped their record to 4-2 by soundly defeating Division I Siena College 16-0 under the lights on Monday night. This win broke Union's two game losing streak, and a win of this magnitude could catipult the laxmen past their remaining oponents. This was the first shutout for a Union lacrosse team in eight years, and was the second of three wins needed to capture the Capital District Cup. Teams in this tourney include Union, Albany, Siena, and RPI. Union only needs to defeat RPI in two weeks to claim the cup for the second year in a row. Monday nights game started out slowly as Union pulled ahead 2-0 in the first quarter, which was marred with sloppy play. However, Union regrouped in the second quarter, scoring three goals, and again holding Siena scoreless. In the second half, the Dutchmen poured it on, scoring six and five goals in the third and forth quarters. The defense of Union again came up big, as Siena was unable to find the cage for a score. With this 16-0 victory, the entire Union squad had excellent games. On offense, Tri-captain Andrew Ross led the scoring with three goals and an assist. other midfielder's came up big for Union as well, with Blake Henderson scoring 2 goals and an assist, Dave DeBerardinis with two goals, Tri-captain Mike Weisberger had a goal and an assist as did Lenny LaMonica. Both Pete Agricola and Jim Olney netted one goal each. On attack for the Laxmen, Phil Horn led the scoring with two· goals and an assist. Tony DaRin had two goals while Andy Albert and John Romeo had a goal and an assist, respectively. The Union defense, led by Sophomore goalie John Thorne, played solidly for the entire contest. Thorne recorded nine saves and let none pass for the Union shutout. On Defense, Tim Meyer, Greg Leahey, Mark Leyton, Gary Cornick, and Chuck Weber had exceptionally strong games for the Dut- chmen. This win sends the laxmen into a tough match at Williams on Wednesday with a new winning attitude. Baseball On Record Path By RICH BARTOSCH Union baseball is on a record pace as they are experiencing some of the best offense in years. The Dutchmen beat RPI last Thursday 11-9 and this past weekend swept Norwich in a doubleheader. Union beat RPI for the second time this year ~coring a total of 24 runs. Starting against RPI was Senior Ted Cannon. Ted pitched 6 innings striking out 6, while RPI scored 5 runs (3 earned). Ted was relieved by Tim Valachovic with Union up 7-5. Tim gave up 2 runs on seeing eye hits to tie the score, but Union would take the lead for good, as Tim now 3-0 got the win. Tim didn't finish as Coach Reynold found it necessary to go to his bullpen. He had lefty Dan Lazarek and righty stopper Dave Giordano warming up. Dave was called on to finish, allowing no runs to keep his ERA at zero and upping his saves to two. Pacing the Dutchmen was Dan Klinger with 3 hits, one being a powerful blast over the 380 ft. mark in left center. Behind Dan with two hits were Alex Rita, Pete Cohan, Steve Alves, and Reinhard Walker. Rita also had two stolen bases making it easy for Dave Anderson, Walker, and Andy Markopulos to collect 2 RBI's each. Union combined for 15 hits. In their next game Union experienced a very long trip to Norwich arriving just in time for the 1:00 start. But the lack of time to prepare themselves had no effect on their hitting as they pounded out 11 rtms on 10 hits winning 11-7. Ken Horan started (2-1) and got the win as Steve Alves got the save by coming in with bases loaded and getting out of the inning without a runner scoring. Leading in the assault was Scott Goldsmith with 3 hits followed by Alex Rita with 2 hits. Pete Cohan collected 3 RBI's, Dan Klinger and Andy Markopoulos added 2 each. In the second game Bill Weidman started with Scott Perlman and Steve Alves relieving. Steve once again collected a save making it his second of the day. The Dutchmen received 4 hits from Alex Rita and 2 from Senior Tom Barrett. Adding 3 RBI's each were Tom Barrett and Glenn Kata while Alex added two more. Union com- bined for 8 hits but scored 14 runs in the 14-0 win over the Cadets. Union swept and upped their record to 9-1. Union is playing some of the most exciting ball ever, but they need your support in their ef- forts. Union won't he home until Wednesday, April 3oth as they play a away game stretch. But on April 3oth they will take on Division I Siena at Central Park (behind Price Chopper) at 3:30. Come out and support your Dutchmen. UNION LACROSSE STATS 6 GAMES: 4-2 Groundballs # Total Weisberge 32 Scoring Goals-Assts.-Pts. Horn 30 Darin 7 13·20 Henderson 27 Romeo 11 8 19 Ross 25 Horn 17·1 18 Darin 18 Ross 6·4·10 Meyer 17 Weisberger 3 3 6 McCormick 16 Henderson 3 3 6 Leahey 16 Agricola 2·0·2 Agricola 15 DeBerardinis 2 0·2 LaMonica 12 Duffy 2·0·2 DeBerardinis 12 LaMonica 1 1 2 Romeo 11 Olney 1 0·1 Cornick 10 Morton 1 0 1 Olney 10 Albert 1 0 1 Ley ton 9 Morton 8 Thorne 6 Shootong Shots-Goals-Pet. Duffy 5 Uccellin• 1 1 1.000 Weber 4 Horn 4 6 17 .370 Ramsay 3 Albert 3 1 .333 Ussellini 3 Ross 19·6 .316 Albert 2 DeBerard.n•s 7 2 .286 Arnold 2 Romeo 44 11 .250 Lloyd 2 Duffy 8 2 .250 Bray 1 Darin 31 7 .226 Cepkauskas Agricola 9 2 222 Goalie Saves-Shots- Pet. Henderson 15 3 200 Thorne 78 112 696 Weisberger 16 3 .186 Morton 7 1 .143 Face-Offs Won-Total-Pet. Olney 9 1 .111 Ross 46 76· .605 LaMonica 14 1 .071 Henderson 1626·.615 Lloyd 1 0 .000 McCormick 4·8·.500 Ramsay I 0 .000 LaMon•ca 2 4 .500 Cepkauskas 1 0 000 Arnold 0·1 .000 Arnold 2 0 .000 Tri·Captain Andy Ross getting up-ended after scoring one of his 3 goals in Monday night's trouncing of Siena. HITTING STATS SB/ Player GP AB R H BA 2B 38 HR RBI SBA SO Alves a 26 a 5 .192 1 2 4/5 Anderson 7 16 6 7 .43a 1 6 4/4 Barrett 8 24 9 9 .375 2 9 3/3 4 Cohan 10 29 3 9 .310 4 8 0/0 10 Connolly 1 0 0 0 .000 0 0/0 0 Giordano 0 0 0 0 .000 0 0/0 0 Goldsmith 4 9 4 4 .444 1 0/0 1 Horan 4 13 4 4 .308 5 2/2 2 Jakubzyk 6 11 3 3 .273 2 7 0/0 4 Kat a 8 16 6 5 .313 6 4/4 2 Klinger 9 34 12 12 .353 1 11 2/4 5 Markopoulos 9 22 10 6 .273 11 1/1 0 O'Leary 3 6 2 2 .333 1 2/2 0 Reynolds 6 11 1 2 .182 0 0/0 6 Rita 10 35 18 15 .429 1 8 6/9 1 Valachovic, Tracy 2 5 0 1 .200 1 0/0 2 Walker 9 24 9 6 .250 1 3 1/2 5 Lazarek 4 0 3 0 .000 0 0/0 0 Q) -o 0 ::J +- </) >- .0 0 +- 0 .c 0. Totals 10 281 98 90 .312 13 2 4 82 79 27/36 44

