1877 CXVI, No. 14 Faculty Meet To Consider Gado Education Petition . Gel-Time Undergoes. Preliminary Examination Further Investigation Proposed Gad(), Zw_icker Clarify Dispute· • Computer''Dry Run'' In-Progress· By l)AVIDGULLIVER Editor's Note: The purpose 9f tips ai11Cle is to eXplQbl the eurrent status of the General . Education plan, the petition for f!Uther investigation, and to settle the personal grievances raised in reeent Concord.leusfs articles. _By MIQIAELC. SWBERSTEIN occurs with the current system, ·however, Ui!· the fact that tbere : .are clos~uts on some of the · . courses. That is why many · · classes have become \card · courses.~' This gives the entire student body a fair shot at a class instead of it having · \I've never seen so many of · my colleagues in one .place before,\ said one professor at .· . the January 30 faculty me~ing~ dependent. on the faculty vote. The. faculty vote was 87.1J7 in favor of the plan and 82-62 in favor of the. General Education Board which monitors the implementa~ion of~. the new curriculum. The board received greater opposition, Deari Daniels said, because of conflict over the powers and duties ascribed to it. Last spring .the Academic Affairs Cornmittee (AAC) wanted ''dry runs'; of the -Gel- Time schedule conducted. The fll'st of these dry . runs is currently being conducted by the Registrar's Office in conjunction with the AAC This entails listing all of the fall term's courses and fitting them into the Gel~Time schedtile. ;E The faculty assembled to · discuss and vote on a petition initiated by Frank Gado, professor .of English. The ~ petition received the necessary ro 30 signatures to mandate a g . meeting, but the :Faculty ~ . · Executive Comwittee declded &, · to hold. the vo~e by m~il rather ~ than on·.the\'floor:·o.f the meettng 'I'hrough all the reseheduling E and reananging, no major en problems have arisen as of yet. The results will be returned to individual departments next wee)t. There haven't been any > classroom confllctst and now ~ the AAC is looking into the o · ·· .:· · possibility of two· required f classes for any given student · occurring at tl:le Sflllle ~e. lf Registrar Owi.ght Wolf's office is · this happen~, the student's _testing Gel-Time. · classes will be mov~dto preyent such a {!OnfUct. 1]le next tiling stml~nts Will be hearing about Gel~Tiine are the .comments from thi! AAC about scheduling in . .ntdet to : ensur.e. tMt all facility v6te.' • • · . · · . · · According-to Chairman of .the FacUlty Ted Btckt the baJ,lots Dean Daniels sJ')eculates qn. tile. were circulated to faculty pt>litics of the facultY vote. members by February 3 and he e:~C.P~cts to receive them and . Dean Daniels raised an ·count the vote by Friday, • interesting point in reference to · February 7-. If_ the v~te is in . the upcoming vote. If tlte favor of the petition, Professor . investigatory committee is . Bick is to ''nominate a • appro'\l'ecl and it presents .a • committee to. investigate • proposal, b)\ thelanguage ofttte .alternatives\ to the General petition it' will replace the Education plan, as stated in the C\ll'rent plan even if it receives petition. Due to a revision less of a majority than the first. for the fall term. A negative response will lead to the schedule being reworked again. If and wben any conflicts are worked out, the winter tenn courses will be rescheduled using the Gel-Time format. These pra~ice dry runs are being conducted so as to alleviate all potential teclmical problems with the new system. One of the problems that · l(letiiors witn top priority fllld freshmen with the lowest~ Some departments, sQch as economics and political science, take a survey prior to pre-registration time to see how many people might be taking a , particular course (See Coneordlens:is, Jan. 29). This way the registrar's office can add new sections to alleviate c 1 o s e • o u t p r o bl em s . Nevertheless, other departments such as biology . and chemistry do not have such pas~ed at the meeting, those ·Continuedonpage5 nominatJons are subject to . . . . . . . . . . ~~~;a&!rcnt~~~)~1£~~ · · President Morris Respon•ds to Student Complaints ; Coatinued on page~ AAC .disapproves, the By DA vm Gl,;JUJVER nominations are to go before a and CHRISTINE HONG I think that it is ·the kind of proposal that will get a good faculty. meeting for further discussion and voting. . '!bat ·eoJJUllittee would iJ.tvestigate · and research alternatives to the · eurrent plan and present an. . alternative pr:oposal by the end of the sixth week of this spring term. If the cojJUDittee dQ~s not present an alternative or if their alternative iS not approved by ~e faculty, the current General Education plan goes into effect. The current General Education plan, . according to Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies and Sc!ribe of .the AAC William Daniels, is in effect technically due to approval by the AAC but tbat approval was largely Edlton' note: In recoguttl41n · solid core of faculty involved. Of dfssatJsfactiOD On campus Y QU can vote against a :P,roposa} durlng recent. months, Con- because you don't like one cordlensis interviewed element within it or some President JohnS. Morris to give , elements within. So that does the coUege adinJnfstration a11 . not necessarily represent a .opportunity to respond. . · refusal to work with it. 00: 'lbe General EducatiGil . DG: A little more practical · Plan was recently appro:ved l)y ·. question: what is that state .of the AAC. I know· that y(ln'te ill · progress of tile college center · favor of the plan, but don't yo11 and the gymnasium? tlrlDk tllat. H 40 percent of tit!! JM: The gynmasium will of ·faculty disapprove,. .it needs course be open in a couple of . fm1b.er consideration? .. weeks. I can say that JM: Of course, this was a unequivocally. The college mflil ballott and a mail ballot center-1 don't want to make would tend to give a mucll · specific dates because ob- broader vote than you woul!l vioUSly I was out on the last one have if you were shnply to have due to a problem with one of the a vote taken on tbe floor of the . subcontractors which pushed it faculty. I am not as disturbe!l off for months-longer than I about that because I think that . had expected. I would. say that it While 40 percent were against~ has been a little behind schedule 00 percent were for. That is a . since the beginning, and it Sigilificant number. I think also. . remains a little oit behind that the committee had worked schedule, but it's moving very hard and.ha!l tried to cover · towards completion. It cer- a lot .of ground and bases. tainly wm be in operation in the 00: ·can the curriculum be fall. effective H 40 percent of the DG: Once these two major facUlty iU'e unenthusiastic on it, projects are complete, what do or do you thbik that that won't you have bi mind for the Nott matter? Memorial? JM: Wen, it's difficult to say JM: Wellt I think that the that they're unenthusiastic. ·. question of the Nott is one of the Whether or not they would be next questions that will have to totally alienated from· im· be addressed. And that is really plementing it is a very different what I have in mind for the matter. As a matter of fact, I Nott-to look at what Ms to be DG: No plans in makbig it ••• JM: No, n()t m. the sense of having anytlling on paper. The basic O.ecision we have to make is whether we improve what it is now, a theatre, or not. DG: What Wl)uld you say is the respo1181ltJllty of tbe College Administration besides establishing the educati-.n. What else are they there to provide? Iguess this is a loaded question. JM: I'm no.t quite sure at what you're getting at. 1 DG: Ooe tbJng ifl that the graduating class, the class of ContinlJed on page 2 · · February 5, 1987, College Food Service Examined Responds to Menu Comp·lalnts By R. REED WHIDDEN College food is not like wbat Mom used to make. Tbe biggest qomplaint at any college is probably the food. Mystery meat, leftovers, \butter's tclo soft'P, \peanut butter's too hard'' is usually what one bears arolllld college dining halls. It is the presence of these problems and that people in general foc11S on tlte bad rather than the good of S()rnetbing that tend to make us complaln and criticixe. aowe-v~r' il one loQks past th~ problems, the food is not r~y that bad. Talking with Jm Gray. h~.ad of -the food. semc~ here at Union, reinforced that this was true~ To begin with, all the foocl bougl:tt by the food service is choice or AA. They get tlleir food from major venders. Suppliers such as Reliable, Selected, Packers, Dairylea, Washburn, Frelhofers, RJnella, Albany Coca Cola, Fulton Prime, and Sysco are just a f'(JW that ~upply meats, dairy products, bakery go()ds, produce, and groceries. Evem!ling they buy is quality food, !lltbough, as conscienti()us consiUJlers would they shop for the best prices. They will Dl)t sacrifice quality for cost. However, in cases like cann.ed go~. madarin oranges for exam!)le, where the oost IS · lower for broken oranges rather than whole oranges the service will hllY the broken ones. 'This may be considered lower quality- to some but one is not worse than the other. it is jwU• matter of whole vs. broken. Tbepreparation of the food is quality, too. The fo()d, depeniling on the dish, will IJe prepared in advance. Lasagna, for e:zwnple, must be prepared well in advance due to the lo11g process it takes to ~ook it, Hot Continued on page1i don. it believe that tb~y would be. done. Photo of the Week: A room with a view of U11ion College winter.

CXVI, No. 14 Faculty Meet To Consider Gado Education Petition Further Investigation Proposed Gado, Zwicker Clarify Dispute By DAVID GULLIVER Editor's Note: The purpose of this a:rticle is to explain the current status of the General Education plan, the petition for further investigation, and to settle the personal grievances raised in recent Concordiensls articles. \I've never seen so many of my colleagues in one place before,\ said one professor at the January 30 faculty meeting. The faculty assembled to discuss and vote on a petition initiated by Frank Gado, professor of English. The E petition received the necessary ~ 30 signatW'es to mandate a ~ meeting, but the Faculty ~ Executive Committee decided ~ to hold the vote by mail rather than on the floor of the meeting in ordel:' to ensure that all faculty vote. dependent on the facility vote. The faculty vote was 87-57 in favor of the plan and 82-62 in favor of the General Education Board which monitors the imp! ementation of the new curriculum. The board received greater opposition, Dean Daniels said, because of ctmflict over the powers and duties ascribed to it. \· ,. Dean Daniels speculates on the politics of the facl:J lty vote. Dean Daniels raised an interesting point in reference to the upcoming vote. If the investigatory committee is approved and it presents a proposal, bythelanguageofthe petition it will replace the current plan even if it receives less of a majority than the first. Continued on page 5 1877 Gel- Time Undergoes Preliminary Examination Computer ''Dry Run'' In Progress By MICHAEL C. SlliBERSTEIN Last spring the Academic Affairs Committee (AAC) wanted \dry runs\ of the Gel- 'rlme schedule conducted. The f.irst of these dry runs is Clll'rently being conducted by tile Registrar's Office in c<JnjunctiDn with the AAC This entails listing all of the fall term's courses and fitting them into the Gel-Time schedule. ~ occurs witll tile current system, however, is the fact that there are close-ollts on some of the courses. That is why :m.any classes have become \card courses. \ This gives the entire student body a fair shot at a class instead of it having Through all the rescheduling E and rearranging, no major ~ problems have arisen as of yet. l:l The results will be returned to ] it1clividual departments next ~ week. There haven't been any ::.. classroom conflicts, and now ~ tile AAC is looking into the 'b possibility of two required ~ , 'ii!lm... classes for any given student occurring at the same time. If Registrar Dwight Wolf's office is testing Gel Time. tllis happens, the student's classes will be moved to prevent Sllch a conflict. The next thing students will be hearing about GEl-Time are the conunents fr<Jrn the AAC about scheduling for the fall term. A negative response will lead to the sehedule being reworked again. If and when any conflicts are ~orked ollt, the winter term CDurses will be rescheduled using th~ Gel-Time format. These practice dry runs are being conducted so as to alleviate an potential technical problems with the new system. One of the problems that seniors with top priority and freshmen with the lowest. Some departments, such as economics and political science, take a survey prior to pre-registrati()n time to see how many people might be taking a particular course (See Concordiensis, Jan. 29). This way the registrar's office can add new sections to alleviate close-out problems. Nevertheless, other departments such as biology and chemistry do not have such · Coatinued on page 3 February 5, 1987 · College Food Service Examined Responds to Menu Complaints By R. REED WHIDDEN College food is not like what Mom used to make. The biggest complaint at any college is probably the food. Mystery meat, leftovers, \butter's too soft\ \peanut butter's too hard\ is usually what one hears around college dining halls. It is the presence of these problems and that people in general focus on the bad rather than the good of something that tend to make us complain and criticize. However, if one looks past the problems, the food is not really that bad. Talking with Jan Gray, head of the food service here at Union, reinforced that this was true. To begin with, all the food bought by the food service is choice or AA. They get their food from major venders. Suppliers such as Reliable, Selected, Packers, Dairylea, Washbw-n, Freihofers, Rinella, Albany Coca Cola, Fulton Prime, and Sysco are just a few that supply meats, dairy products, bakery goods, produce, and groceries. According to Chairman of the Faculty Ted Bick, the ballots were circulated to faculty members by February 3 and he expects to receive them and count the vote by Friday, February 7. If the vote is in favor of the petition, Professor Bick is to \nominate a committee to investigate alternatives\ to the General Education plan, as stated in the petition. Due to a revision passed at the meeting, those nominations are subject to approval by the Academic Affairs Council (AAC). If the AAC disapproves, the nominations are to go before a faculty meeting for further discussion and voting. That committee would ~vestigate and research alternatives to the current plan and present an alternative proposal by the end President Morris Responds to Student Complaints Everything they buy is quality food, although, as conscientious consumers would they shop for the best prices. They will not sacrifice quality for cost. However, in cases like canned goods, madarin oranges for example, where the cost IS lower for broken oranges rather than whole oranges the service will buy the broken ones. This may be considered lower quality to some but one is not worse than the other. it is just a matter of whole vs. broken. of the sixth week of this spring term. If the committee does not present an alternative or if their alternative is not approved by the faculty, the current General Education plan goes into effect. The current General Education plan, according to Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies and Scribe of the AAC William Daniels, is in effect technically due to approval by the AAC but that approval was largely By DAVID GULLIVER and CHRISTINE HONG Edtoors' note: In rec111gmitloa of dissatisfaction on campus during recent montlls, Con- cordlensis intervlewed President John S. Morris to give the college administrati01n an opportunity to respond. DG: The General Education Plan was recently appr01ved by the AAC. I know that y()u're in favor of the plan, but don't you think that if 40 percent of the faculty cUsapprove, it needs further consideration? JM: Of course, this was a mail ballot, and a maU ballot would tend to give a much broader vote than you would have if you were simply to have a vote taken on the floor of the faculty. I am not as disturbed about that because I think that while 40 percent were against, 60 percent were .for. That is a significant number. I think also that the committee had worked very hard and had tried to cover a lot of ground and bases. DG: Can the curriculmn be effective if 48 percent of the faculty are unenthusiastic on it, or do you think that that won't matter? JM: Well, it's difficult to say that they're unenthusiastic. Whether or not they would be totally alienated from im· plementing it is a very different matter. As a matter of fact, I don't believe that they would be. I tllink that it is the kind of proposal that will get a good S<Jlid core of faculty involved. Yotl can vote against a proposal because you don't like one element within it or some elements within. So that does n<t necessarily represent a refliSal to work with it. DG: A little more practical q11estton: what is that state of pr~tgress of the college center and the gymnasium? JM: The gymnasium will of co\ll'Se be open in a couple of wetlks. I can say that Ul!equivocally. The college cemter-I don't want to make specific dates because ob- violiSlY I was out on the last one dlle to a problem with one of the subcontractors which pushed it off for months-longer than I had expected. 1 would say that it has been a little behind schedule since the beginning, and it remains a little bit behind sclledule, but it's moving t()wards C()mpletion. It cer- talnly will be in operation in the fall. IJG: On«!e these two major pr&jects are complete, what do yo11 have in mind for the Nott Memorlal'r m: Well, 1 think that the question of the Nott is one of the neld questions that will have to be addressed. And that is really wllat 1 have in mind for the NcJtt-to look at what has to be doll e. DG: No plans in maldng it ..• JM: No, not m. the sense of having anything on paper. The basic decision we have to make is whether we improve what it is now, a theatre, or not. DG: What wDuld you say is the responsibility of the College Administration besides establishing the education. What else are they there to provide? I guess this is a loaded question. JM: I'm not quite sure at what you're getting at. ' 00: One thing is that ihe graduating clas11, the class of Continued on page 2 The preparation of the food is quality, too. The food, depending on the dish, will be prepared in advance. Lasagna, for example, must be prepared well in advance due to the long process it takes to .cook it. Hot Continued on page 5 Photo of the Week: A room with a view of Union College winter.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 5, 1987 Morris Discusses Drinking Age Change,- Lack of Campus Facilities Continued from page 1 1987bas gone tluo..gb two years of cons1ruetlun. Maybe there should have lteen more done for them than was. JM: Yes, let~s look at that becaW!Ie I'm bothered by that. I'm bothered by the claim first of all. When we decided to do carnegie, one of the first things we decided to do to prepare for that was to complete Stoller Hall, to restore Old Chapel in order that there be a place for the Student FoiUIIl, a place for WRUC, a place for Con- cordiensis, a place for the Student Affairs. We provided the upperclass dining in Old Chapel whicll I think is a hand- some old hall and a ~lace for the · Pub in Hale Eou:se. We also, in . addition, created the 21 Club in the Lower Lounge. So in terms of faciliUes, while they were certainly not equal-and that I grant you, I think we went out of our way not t() deprive you of those facilities. Now with respect to the gym, whenEver the gym was to be done, 'We would not have the pool. 'Tilie ]001 had to be d,one. It would ltot have existed much longe:r as :a viable, functional swirn:mimg pool. So, for me, the quest;blli was whether I'd do it now, o.r whether I'd do it four years fl\om now. In a way the answ-er to that came from the fact that the dQrmltory auth11rfities~ from who we did our. f~~~tding, likes to do its fundim1g ih .as large amounts as . possil:llle. And: once you've got the fwmlitlg from them, you've got it~J proceed immediately with J'!llllr construction. And here again~ while I know that the 'V»CA :is nearly half a mile away, it w:as the best solution possillle. And I w<>uld point out that there 1 11avE been sacrifices that earlier students made in order that Y'l'etodayhave the facilities we've 11ot. Before Science and Engineel'iJig was built, there wasn\t .a student center on camtDIIS ; there were no .Univ. of Vermont Re-establishes · General Curricul:um Plan BURLINGTON, VT.-. (I.P.)-University of Vermont's controversial- ciU'riculum plan, once voted down by the faculty · of the CDllege of Arts and Sciences, then reintroduced and , approved tw~ to oae, includes the followillg major changes: Required mathematics co~rse$ through the intermediate level, · a foreign languag.e als() through the intermediate lev.el, a course in non .. European culture and courses in fi~e distribution areas, with a mandatory laboratory science. . · Students may be exempted from the math and language requirements if they score high enough on Advanced Placement or College Entrance Examination Board Achievement 'rests. Under the new curriculum, each student must declare a minor as well as a major field. \It's been a very, very thorough review of the goals and objectives ()f an arts and sciences degree,\ said Dean John Jewett. \It reestalishes the humanities as the centerpiece f()r the bachaior of arts curriculum.\ The old curriculum was not a bad one, Jewett said, but it needed revision. \'I'he main problem was a lack of coherence in the distribution requirements,\ he said. \Requiring study in only three or four areas was not adequate.\ Faculty members who served on the CUI'l'iclllwn committee said the new plan would give ·;tudents more direction. History professor Pat Hutton, a tormer committee member, hopes the plan will help students ''postpone vocational decisions\ and worry less about getting a job after graduation and more aoout gaining a broad-based education. \We hope they will be sampiling the curriculum more fully,.'\ agreed English profe-s:sm· Robert Cochran. other- committee members are conce::rmed about the increased requiremen:ts. ''1'hat's a fear of mine,'\' said Hutton, ''that flexib'jlit:y is being sacrificed to structu:r.e to S()me degree.'' Jewett and some connnittee memiJers nope the new curri~lllum closes the gap betweelll sciences and humailities. \Anything we can do to get science involved in the liberal arts and liberal arts involvre.d in hard science\ .is a positive step, said Bryan. Mathematics, he saiq, \is an absol11te must\ for social scient]~;ts to conduct research and mder~tand concepts of the disciplline. Jewoeet :agreed. ''More and more ;areas of inquiry are depe!l!Lellt on a reasonably facile al>tliiy with numbers,\ he said. '·'It\s a door that must be opened ai the beginning of the collegE career or its closed forever-.\' Taking math in · collegE \\ill allow students to consiciell' many more minor areas fol' futlll'e occupations, the dem said. The math, lab science and foreigJl language requirements also ar.e an attempt to lower the barriel' that many students feel toward tllese subjects. \Some studeruts may oo able, but have blocks against doing math and foreig11 ilanguages,\ Hutton said. Be WCtnders, however, if forcing th:em to take these course;S is .a good idea. Jewett acltnowledged this concei'll, S3ying some faculty members feel that requiring mathe-matics and foreign langua£es will be frustrating ~nd ·ddea.ting for some students, Adding a required minor, lho\W<ever to complement the m.ajo.r, Jewett said, will provide.a \depth of study in two areas.'' 2rrlJnt-J-rs ~ facilities for student activities munity-support activities which in a way there is now. 'lbey also have a kind ·of socialiZing were deprived ·of a lot ofthings .function, for example the because there were a lot of Muscular Dystrophy Marat)lon manueuvering of bUildings at last year. l think that that's the time. In terms of the history great. And I think that the of the college, students have students themselves have to try been Willing to accept • to come to some jdea as to how deprivation for future im- they would like to come provement .. And what I hope together. The CQJnrnittee on that the student body will see, Social Alternatives is· a very that While they have been in• good cominittee and has come convienced, there was no way of up with some very interesting avoiding that conVience in order '· suggestions. to make .sure that Union will DG: One of the focll!les of an survive into the future. They're ' editorial not too long ago and a hard decisiQns but you can't . le\er to the newspaper is that avoid them. tllere isn't enough diversity on con:::sideration · by the Faculty Liason Co:nunittee and the Administration · with the Admissions staff. · . • DG: ;Do you thl'llk. that SATS · have Umited .the ,sort of student '4hllt we ll•ve tallen in the past. Have we passed ·ap on students that might ha'Ve helped the eommunity, for the sake of SATs. JM: Oh, I think that that's a possibility. And that's :where I think that, Bates' and Bowdoin's experif,'!nce will be very helpful. DG: What do you think the campus. . students could do to improve the JM; Well, there's. more ·': quaHty of life around her~. You diversity on the campus then J>G : ()ne tlliog that the newsp11per has been looking to get is a copy of the ·college's budget. I'm sure that you've heard. of tbat .through Vice· Presideot Ha\lser. First of all, might have some ideas on that. there was some years ago, Let I know that everybody has tne put that on the table. So, complaints, but what do you •obviously, I've been concerned : think can. be done? with diversity. We have worked JM: You know one of the in doing two things: one, to things that has happened create some more geQgraphical . through the 21 year old drinking diversity, which I think· is ini- law was that a very easy way in portant. But I think that in the which you could have last two years we li,ave been socialization amongst our much more successful in our student body was taken from us. minority recrtiitin,g. It js too I believe that . that more than early to Iet that shoW visibly as anything else has ea.used a lot of it might, but I think in another the student unrest. What's two years when we've got four lacking is the ease at which we :full classes of a more intensive were able to relate to each other minority drive than we've had, through all college parties tbat would show. So, my answer which were hallmark, I think, of is tllat there always will be a Union life in earlier years. What measure of problem about we've got to try to do is to find diversity, but I think that we are substitutes to enable us to do aware oUt and trying .to work in that. I think that when the constructive ways. In terms .of college center will open, we will geographical diversity, I think have a vehicle for · dolng that · that that is very important for because it will be designed til do us in terms of the future. that in a way that Carnegie · DG: I'm curious about this. never was since it was too split How Important do you feel SATs up. I think that the new building are? will encourage· coming JM: That's interesting .. I'm · together, moving together-, and not sure· what I want t() say socializing. publicly on this. I believe that One of the interesting by- the college should look at what products oftbis law, is/to me, a places like Bowdoin and Bates greater evidence of · students . '!lave done- getting together in their dorms DG: Which is? in a variety of ways. I've been JM.: Which is not to use the invited to some dorm floors SAT and to look at what their groups just to sit down andtalk. experience is. There are a I know thatthis has happened to variety of ways in which we can other faculty members. I think make judgements about the that that's great, and I hope that qualifications of students as that is the sort of thing that they come in. SATs are onl~ one should continue. I think that it of these. The problem with the brings .the college intellectual SAT today, in my judgement, is life intothe donn, And to do that that iris becoming increasingly would be very important in- less a good measure of quality. deed. To do more of that would High School performance is be very good. I think we've much, much better. But ther foWld some creative ways to question of whether we should involve themselves in com- not use SATs is a matter for how do you. feel about that? JM: The question is what do you· mean by the copy of the budget? That's the problem .. I think that we have already given a copy 'Of the· proposed budget to Concordiensis which also is what the Board sees. DG: I :think the pape!,' would like a copy of something that bas detans ·of wllere money has been spent. · JM: If you warit a massive line detail of the l:ntdget, I really don't · think that that tells · anything . . . L~t me ask you something, what'sthe question? If I knew what that question was--yQu see, if. it is a question of the so-called i!xces~. than I · · can sit down and t;Jxplain it to you. It will t;;tke about 15 minutes witb pad and pencil, · and I'll do that. And what you'll see, .is that it is not an excess. Getting the line-by-line budget woUldn't tell Y<lll that. What the · excess consists of is a .flow- through' of withdrawn en- dowment, 5;5 percent, that ultimately must be redeposited · at the en<:l.of tbe fj~~a.LY.~at. The Boardhas a policy to make sure that that di:ffere11ce between the 5.5 percent and whatever it grows goes back into the en· dowment. The actual growth of the 5.5 percent and the dif- ference can be as much as one million dollars. And so it ap- pears as a pass-through in the · budget, it comes in as a million and goes out as a million. Furthermore, anything that comes into the budget which is not budgeted for bas to appear as income in some form, for Continued on page 3 TO ALL CLUBS AND ORGANI·ZA.TIONS: Any club wishing to place an advertisement in the Concordiensis must submit thelr ad-copy by 5:00p.m. on the Monday preceding the issue in which they wish to advertise. Bring ads to the Concordiens.is office on the third floor of the Old Chapel. Thank Y·O:U. .[

Pagt.' 2 CONCORIJIENS/S, Februarv 5, 1987 Morris Discusses Drinking Age Change, lack of Campus Facilities Continued from page 1 1987 has gone through two years of construction. Maybe there should bave been more done for them than was. JM: Yes, let's look at t:hat becaUBe I'm bothered by that. I'm bothered by the claim first of all. When we decid.ed to do Carnegie, one of the first thin.gs we decided to do to prepare for that was to complete Stoller Hall, to restore Old Chapel in order that there be a place for the Student Forum, a place for WRUC, a place for Con- cordiensis, a place for the Student Affairs. We provided the upperclass dining in Old Chapel which I think is a hand- some old hall and a place for the Pub in Hale Hause. We also, in addition, created the 21 Club in the Lower Lounge. So in terms of facilities, while they were certainly not equal-and that I grant you., I think we went out of our way not to deprive you of those facilities. Now with respect to the gym, whenever the gym was to be done, we would not have the pool. The pool had to be done. It would not have existed much longer as a viable, functional swimming pool. So, for me, the question was whether I'd do it now, or whether I'd do it four years from now. In a way the answer to that came from the fact that the dormitory authorities, from who we did our fund.ing, likes to do its funding in as large amounts as possible. And once yeu've got the fW1ding from them, you've got to proceed immediately with your constructioR. An.d here again, while I know that the YMCA is nearly half a mile away, it was the best solution possible. And I would point out that there have been sacrifices that earlier students made in order that we today have the facilities we've got. Before Science and Engineering was built, there wasn't a student center on campus; there were no Univ~~ of Vermont Re-establishes General Curriculum Pla~n BURLINGTON, VT.- (l.P.)-University of Vermont's controversial curriculwn plan, once voted down by the faculty of the College of Arts and Sciences, then reintroduced and approved two to one, includes the following major changes: Required mathematics courses through the intermediate level, a foreign language also through the intermediate level, a course in non-European culture and courses in five distribution areas, with a mandatory laboratory science. Students may be exempted from the math and language requirements if they score high enough on Advanced Placement or College Entrance Examination Board Achievement Tests. Under the new curriculwn, each student must declare a minor as well as a major field. \It's been a very, very thorough review of the goals and objectives of an arts and sciences degree,\ said Dean John Jewett. \It reestalishes the humanities as the centerpiece for the bachdor of arts curriculum.'' The old curriculum was not a bad one, Jewett said, but it needed revision. ''The main problem was a lack of coherence in the distribution requirements,\ he said. \Requiring study in only three or four areas was not adequate.\ Faculty members who served on the curriculum committee said the new plan would give ,tudents more direction. History professor Pat Hutton, a :ormer committee member, hopes the plan will help students ''postpone vocational decisions\ and worry less about getting a job after graduation and more about gaining a broad-based education. ''We hope they will be sampling the curriculum more fully,'' agreed English professor Robert Cochran. Other committee members are concerned about the increased requirements. \That's a fear of mine,\ said Hutton, \that flexibility is being sacrificed to structure to some degree.'' Jewett and some committee members hope the new curriculum closes the gap between sciences and humanities. \Anything we can do to get science involved in the liberal arts and liberal arts involved in hard science\ is a positive step, said Bryan. Mathematics, he said, \is an absolute must\ for social scientists to conduct research and understand concepts of the discipline. Jewett agreed. \More and more areas of inquiry are dependent on a reasonably facile ability with numbers,\ he said. \It's a door that must be opened at the beginning of the college career or its closed forever.\ Taking math in college will allow students to consider many more minor areas for future occupations, the dean said. The math, lab science and foreign language requirements also are an attempt to lower the barrier that many students feel toward these subjects. \Some students may be able, but have blocks against doing math and foreign languages,\ Hutton said. He wonders, however, if forcing them to take these courses is a good idea. Jewett acknowledged this concern, saying some faculty members feel that requiring mathematics and foreign languages will be frustrating and defeating for some students. Adding a required minor, however, to complement the major, Jewett said, will provide a \depth of study in two areas.\ facilities for student activities in a way there is now. They were deprived of a lot of things because there were a lot of manueuvering of buildings at the time. In terms of the history of the college, students have been wiHing to accept deprivation for future im- provement. And what I hope that the student body will see, that while they have been in- convienced, there was no way of avoiding that convience in order to make sure that Union will survive into the future. They're );)ard decisions but you can't avoid them. DG: What do you think students could do to improve the quality of life around here. You might have some ideas on that. I know that everybody has complaints, but what do you tbinlt can be done? JM: You know one of the things that has happened through the 21 year old drinking law was that a very easy way in which you could have socialization amongst our student body was taken from us. I believe that that more than anything else has caused a lot of the student unrest. What's lacking is the ease at which we were able to relate to each other through all college parties which were hallmark, I think, of Union life in earlier years. What we've got to try to do is to find substitutes to enable us to do that. r think that when the college center will open, we will have a vehicle for doing that because it will be designed to do that in a way that Carnegie never was since it was too split up. I think that the new building will encourage coming together, moving together, and sociali~ing. One of the interesting by- products of this law, is, to me, a greater- evidence of students getting together in their dorms in a variety of ways. I've been invited to some dorm floors groups just to sit down and talk. I kn<Jw that this has happened to other faculty members. I think that that's great, and I hope that that is the sort of thing that should continue. I think that it brings the college intellectual life into the dorm. And to do that would be very important in- deed. To do more of that would be very good. I think we've fotu1d some creative ways to inv(}lve themselves in com- mwlity-support activities which alsa have a kind of socializing function, .for example the Muscular Dystrophy Marathon last year. I think that that's great. And I think that the students themselves have to try to come to some idea as to how they would Hke to come together. The Committee on Social Alternatives is a very good committee and has come up with some very interesting suggestions. DG: One of the focuses of an editorial not too long ago and a letter to the newspaper is that there isn't enough diversity on the campus. JM: Well, tllere's more diversity on the campus then there was some years ago. Let me put that on the table. So, obviously, I've been concerned with diversity. We have worked in doing two things: one, to create some more geographical . diversity, which I think is im- portant. But I think that in the last two years we have been much more successful in our minority recruiting. It is too early to let that show visibly as it might, but I think in another two years when we've got four full classes of a more intensive minority drive than we've had, that would show. So, my answer is that there always will be a measure of problem about diversity, but I think that we are aware of it and trying to work in constructive ways. In terms of geographical diversity, I think that that is very important for us in terms of the future. DG: I'm curious about this. How bnportant do you feel SA Ts are? JM: That's interesting. I'm not sure what I want to say publicly on this. I believe that the college should look at what places like Bowdoin and Bates have done- DG: Which is? JM: Which is not to use the SAT and to look at what their- experience is. There are a variety of ways in which we can make judgements about the qualifications of students as they come in. SATs are only one of these. The problem with the SAT today, in my judgement, is that it is becoming increasingly less a good measure of quality. High school performance is much, much better. But the question of whether we should not use SATs is a matter for consideration by the F'aculty Liason Committee 'lln d: the Administration witlt the Admissions staff. . . DG: Do you think th11t SATs have limited the sort of student that we have taken in. U1e past. Have we passed up 011 students that might have h~lped the community, for the sake of SATs. JM: Oh, I think tha:t that's a possibility. And that's wilere I think that Bates' and B()wdoin's experience will be very helpful. DG: One thing •lu t the newspaper has been l~oldng to get is a copy of the eollege's budget. I'm sure that you've heard of that throu..gl! Vice- President Hauser. Flrsi of all, how do you feel about tltat? JM: The question is v.rhat do you mean by the copy of the budget? That's the problem. I think that we have already given a copy of the proposed budget to Concordiensls which also is what the Board sees. DG: I think the pa!)er would like a copy of sometllf.llg that has details of where nomey has been spent. JM: If you want a massive line detail of the budget, I really don't think that tlut tells anything . . . Let me ask you something, what's theq11estion? If I knew what that (iUestion was-you see, if it is a question of the so-called excess, than I · can sit down and explain it to you. It will take a\)out 15 minutes with pad and pencil, and I'll do that. And what you'll see, is that it is not an excess. Getting the line-by-lin-e budget wouldn't tell you that. What the excess consists of is a flow- through of withdrawtl en- dowment, 5.5 percent, that ultimately must be rede)l(}sited at the end of the fiscalye.ar. The Board has a policy to ma:ke sure that that difference bet ween the 5.5 percent and whtttever it grows goes back into th.e en- dowment. The actual ~rowth of the 5.5 percent and tile dif- ference can be as muc:h as one mUlion dollars. And so it ap- pears as a pass-through. in the budget, it comes in as a million and goes out as a mi!Li()n. Furthermore, anytlling that comes into the budget which is not budgeted for has t() appear as income in some f()nn, for Continued !Jn page 3 TO ALL CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS: Any club wishing to place an advertisement in the Concordiensis must submit their ad-copy by 5:00p.m. on the Monday preceding the issue in which they wish to advertise. Bring ads to the Concordiensis office on the third floor of the Old Chapel. Thank you. I I. I, I' I

CONCORDIENSJS, February 5, t987 Page3 Returning Students Discuss Fellowship Opportunities in St. Andrews, Scotl~nd By PlSTINE:B\JRNllAM Last Monday at 7:30 in the · Social Science Building there · was an .information session for • the ·lsn-88 St. Andrews Exchange. Professor Klein of the economics department conducted the session. Also present W~i!re Set)l Anderson '87, the fellowship wituier last year, and Gareth Hul>boek, who is visiting Union this year frQm St. Andrews. Tbe exchange is between St .. are, however, many- clubs to be The written portions of the involved in that both Anderson · application Will then be and Hub bock talked. about. reviewed by a selection One thing that was obvious . connnittee which is chaired by ftom both the slid~s and the Professor Klein. The rest of the talk, was that St. Andrews is committee is Prof. G. Gmelch, definitely full of wonderful :Prof. Smith, Prof. Gunter, tradition and style. Anderson • David Garhan, Schaffer Showed pictures of students Ubrary staff, and Anderson and marching around in thetr · Hubbock. The applicants are academic regalia ill a weekly i screened by the committee. By tradition. the week of February 16, 4-6 · Hubbock comillented a little · · applicants will be interviewed. on the differences that he has The announcement of the . been experiencing is the food. · · winner will occur on or before Both students laughed when ·· February 23, . boiled potatoes were mentioned President Morris responded to a call for better administration- . student communication . Andrews CoUege·of St. Andrews Scotland and Union. The winner of the exchange gets a fellowship which defrays all tuition and living expenses for th~ jlUlior year. as if it is a very comll1on fare at the University. Hubbock went p: r. e· .st·dent A· d. 'dre·s· ses Bu .. do .. et •Surplu·s·, so far. as to say, \West is really ~ .magnificent'' when compared St. Andrews is located approximately 60 miles fro:m. Edinb()rough, the capital of Scotland. The town itself is rather isolated but this only adds to its charm. The University has no· actual campus as we are accustomed to here at UJLion. Instead, buildings ar~ . located throughout the t&wn itself. to St. Andrews cuisine. : ''lm.passe' 'on Telecomm.unications Issue Anderson, who is a classics major,, brought slides and books with him to try aad best convey the reality of St. Andrews. Seth spoke about the academics. which be .called \very concentrated\ and the social life which he enjoyed extensively. · At St. Andrews there are no. fraternities; there This bad point 1 should not, however, defer an~one .from considering ScQtland as an alternative to Schenectady. Although there is no formal application; the proeedure is as follows: One must contact Professor Klein · in the .. economics department {SS109, ·. x6056 ), and then write a 3-4 page · essay regarding some exceptional ed 1,1cational experience you have had. Then a potential applicant must submit an unoffieial Union transcript, and two letters of .reference. Professor Klein should receive all materials by Feb~ 9. Continued from page 2 example a million dollar . bequest which comes in as income therefore showing up in the budget. This money most often goes into endowment. So this also appears as a flow- through. Thirdly, we budget for 1,940 students and assume we will get 1,940 tuitions, not that you get 1,940tuitions, but that's another story. We have averaged over the past several years 1,970 to 1,980 students. If you're looking at that in terms of. tuition, that would generate a figure that is not necessarily equal to 1.970 tuitions, but is greater than 1,940. Now, the question is, what have we used the money for over the past few years. It's paid for things like getting tpe asbestos ceilings out of the dorms. It's paid for significant amounts of the computer center's equipment. New dorm rooms in Fox and Davidson. A very small amount for some of the little extras on the athletic · field, the lights, construction. A library loan .replacement. Hickok Dormitory, renovations. munications system is for the fundamental good of the college. DG: I call see we're at an impasse on thfs. I see it as a service and you see it as part of the institutloa. JM: We. will disagree on some things. (laughs) DG: A couple of little questions. Who do you think deserves congratulations on campus for the job they've been doing. :Reg·ist:rar Advocates Departmental S.urvey Before· Pre-Registrati·on DG: My own personal complaint is about the new telecommunications system. Tile data and phone lines are separate; the computer center staff .told me that separate costs could be determined, and yet, 1500 on-campus students are being charged for a l!erviCle only a hundt.ed, at best, are using. Do you think this .is. fair? JM: Since this is very much on my mind at the moment, the grounds crew very much deserves to be congratulated. They are tired. We have a record snow fall; they are not used to having it. 1 really think that they have worked very hard. I think tbat the committee on the curriculum deserves a lot of credit. They have worked Conti:iiued'fr~m .page 1 ·· · \ , _., I • li l. ; ... .., -.... a ::;ystem and there are quite a few closeouts. Registrar Dwight Wolf said that · departments such as these ' 4 collld use the system adopted by Economics and Political Science as a model for future course planning.\ He is not in t;tle position to tell them what to do, but lie does highly recommend taking it into C()nsideration, sili:ce complaints about close-outs in some other departments L\Un higher. Another thing that the . ' • l departments could do would be to tak-e the names of those people that would be cut off · from orie term's card-list and automatically add tllem for the next time that course is offered, thereby a$suring that a student will get that course at one time or another. Many of the smaller departments do not find it necessary to take such action because there is not as high a demand. The comses where there is a lot of demand are the ones in focus. ISPRING BREAK VACATIONS! DATONA BEACH MIAMI FT. LAUDERDALE STOWE BERMUDA NASSAU CANCUN STEAMBOAT JAMAICA & UP CONTACT BRIAN 381-4181 As for pre-registration for the spring term, there should be fewer problems. Wolf says \there are always about 100 fewer students here in the spring and there shouldn't be as many problems.\ Also, there Several departments \could use the system adopted by Economies and. Political Science as a model for future course -planning.\ _ QRegistrar W~lf · have been several new sections added to courses such as PSYlO, EC012, and ESC10. There will always be courses that are more popular and will close out but for this particular spring term there should be fewer disputes; and there could be even less dissatisfaction if other departments adopt an early survey system. . JM: This is another issue. I'm concerned about. ·Our telecommunications system establishes a first-rate potential for the future. DG: There's no dispute over that; it's the rates that are questionable. People are paying · for a service they aren't using. I'm not In Chemistry; I don't pay a lab fee, or a materials fee. I don't have a VAX account; I don't pay for tbat. Why should I pay for a hook-up to the com- puter that I don't use? JM: The system is part of the fabric of the college. You can't charge people for only what they use. 00: Even when it can be .separately detemrlned? JM: That's not the way to run a college; it wouldn't be an institution; it would be more like a community college or an automat. The telecom- · hard and have done careful and ·thorough job. I think that the Student Forwn lias acted with a lot of care this year. I feel that it is better to name bodies, groups of people, at this point than individuals. DG: What do you think is the purpose of a college newspaper? JM: I think the student newspaper does three things. First, it should be a vehicle by which individuals like yourself can become involved in the community a11d offer your particular talents and, per.haps even, help your .talents improve in some way or other. The second thing that it should do is in some or othel\ way represent a sense of community. The third thing that it sb()uld do is to represent a stUdEnt voice to the community. I probably would change three andtwo around in retrospect. But, overall, what the college newsJ>aper does is to represent in S()rne way the community. And if it does it Mountebanks is currently in search of a rehearsa I accompanist for their upcoming responsibly, it's taken · seriously. If it doesn't do it responsibly, it isn't taken seriously-and all one does is look at the perso11als,I suppose. production of Gods pel/ If interested, please ca II Randi ( 386- 4258) or Stephen { 386-4086) DG: Have you ever put in a personal? JM: No, I have never put in a personal, but I have had a personal put in for me. ediType WORD PROCESSING SERVICE Resumes and Cover Letters Technical Typing Term Papers and Theses 1986 rates for first drafts received .before February 1, 1987 Phone 399-8762 On· Campus delivery can be arr.anged ' . . ' • \ 4 .. ... • - • ..! '\' ~ <I • \

f ...• f; l i i : I' ·' '' CONCORDIENSIS. F~hruary 5, 1987 Page3 Returning Students Discuss Fellowship Opportunities in St. Andrews, Scotland By KltiS'TINE BURNHAM Last Monday at 7:30 in the Social Science :Building there . was an ·information session for the 19~7-88 St. Andrews Exchange. Professor Klein. of the economics department conducted tile session. Also present were Seth Anderson '87, the fellowship -winner last year, and Gareth !lubbock, who is visiting Union this year from St. Andrews. The exchange. is between St. Andrews College Bf St. Andrews Scotland and Union. The winner of the exchange gets a fellowship which defrays al:l tuition e111d living expenses for the jWlior year. St. .Andrews is located approximately 60 miles from Edinborough, the capital of Scotland. The town itself is rather isolated but this only adds b its charm. The University ltas no actual campus as we are accustomed to here at U.nion. Instead, buildings are located through<>ut the t()wn itself. Anderson, wbo is a classics major, br()ught slides and books with him to try and best convey the reality of St. Andrews. Seth spoke about the academics which he called \very concentrated\ and the social life which he enjoyed extensively. A.t St. Andrews there are n() fr~ternities; there are, however, many clubs to be The written portions of the involved in that both Anderson application will then be and Hubbock talked ab<Jut. reviewed by a selection One thing that was obvious committee which is chaired by from ooth the slides and the Professor Klein. The rest of the talk, was that St. Andrews is committee is Prof. G. Gmelch, definitely full of wonderful Prof. Smith, Prof. Gunter, traditi()n and style. Anderson David Garhan, Schaffer showed pictures of students Library staff, and Anderson and marching around in their Hubbock. The applicants are academic regalia in a weekly screened by the co:m..mittee. By tradition. . the week of February 16, 4-6 Hubbock commented a little applicants will be interviewed. on the differences that he has · The announcement of the been experiencing is the food. winner will occur on or before Both students laughed when February 23. boiled potatoes were mentioned . ----------- President Morris responded to a call f<>r better administration student communication. as if it is a very common fare at the University. Hubbock went SC!> far as to say, \West is really magnificent\ when compared to St. Andrews cuisine. President Addresses Budget Surplus; ''Impasse'' on Telecommunications Issue This bad point, should not, however, defer anyone from considering Scotland as an alternative to Schenectady. Although there is no formal application, the procedure is as follows: One must contact Professor Klein in the economics department (SS109, x6056), and then write a 3-4 page essay regarding some exceptional educational experience you have had. Then a potential applicant must submit an unofficial Union transcript, and two letters of reference. Professor Klein should receive all materials by Feb. 9. Continued from page 2 example a million dollar bequest which comes in as income therefore showing up in the budget. This money most often goes into endowment. So this also appears as a flow- through. Thirdly, we budget for 1,940 students and assume we will get 1,940 tuitions, not that you get 1,940 tuitions, but that's another story. We have averaged over the past several years 1,970 to 1,980 students. If you're looking at that in terms of tuition, that would generate a figure that is not necessarily eQual to 1.970 tuitions, but is greater than 1 ,940. Now, the question is, what have we used the money for over the past few years. It's paid for things like getting the asbestos ceilings out of the dorms. It's paid for significant amounts of the computer center's equipment. New dorm rooms in Fox and DavidS<Jn. A very small amount for sorne of the little extras on the athletic field, the lights, construction. A library loan replacement. Hickok Dormitory renovations. munications system is for the fundamental good of the college. DG: I can see we're at an impasse on thfs. I see it as a service and you see It as part of the ins1itu1ion. JM: We will disagree on some things. (laughs) DG: A couple of little questions. Who do you think deserves congratulati4JDS on campu5 for the job they'\e been doing. Registrar Advocates Departmental S·u:rvey Before Pre-Registration DG: My own persona:l complamt is about the new telecommunications system. The data and phone lines are separate; the computer center staff told me that separate costs could be determined, and yet, 1500 on-campus students are being charged for a service ~tnly a hundred, at best, are using. Do you think this is fair? JM: Since this is very much on my mind at the mome11t, the grounds crew very much deserves to be congratulated. They are tired. We have a record snow fall; they are not used to having it. I really think that they have worked very hard. I tllillk that the committee on the curriculum deserves a lot of credit. They have W()rked hard and have done careful and thorough job. I think that the Student Forwn has acted with a lot of carE this year. I feel that it is better to name bodies, groups of people, at this poillt than individuals. Continued from page 1 a system and. there are quite a few closeo11ts. Registrar Dwight Wolf said th~t departments such as these \could use the system adopted by Economics and Political Science as a model for future cowse planning.\ He is not in the p<Jsition to tell them what to do, but be does highly recornmen d taking it into consideration, since complaints about close-outs in some other departments run higher. Another thing that the departments could do w<>uld be to take the names of those people that would be cut off from one term's card-list and automatically add them for the next time that course is offered, thereby assuring that a student will get that course at one time or another. Many of the smaller departments do not find it necessary to take such action because there is not as high a demand. The courses where there is a lot of demand are the ones in focus. ISPRING BREAK VACATIONS! DATONA BEACH MIAMI FT. LAUDERDALE STOWE BERMUDA NASSAU CANCUN STEAMBOAT JAMAICA & UP CONTACT BRIAN 381-4181 As for pre-registration for the spring term, there should be fewer problems. Wolf says \there are always about 100 fewer students here in the spring and there shouldn't be as many problems.\ Also, there Several departments \could use the system adopted by Economics and Political Science as a model for future course planning.\ -Registrar Wolf have been several new sections added to courses such as PSYlO, EC012, and ESClO. There will always be courses that are · more popular and will cl(lse out but for this particular spring term there should be fewer disputes; and there could be even less dissatisfaction if other departments adopt an early survey system. JM: This is another issue I'm concerned about. Our telecommunications system establishes a first-rate potential for the future. DG: There's no dispute over that; it's the rates that are questionable. People are paying for a service they aren't usmg. I'm not in Chemistry; I don't pay a lab fee, or a materials fee. 1 don't have a VAX account; I don't pay for that. Why should I pay for a hook-up to the com· puter that I don't use? JM: The system is part of the fabric of the college. You can't charge people for only what they use. DG: Even when it can be separately determined? JM: That's not the way to run a college; it wouldn't be an institution; it would be more like a community college or an automat. The telecom- DG: What do you think is the pnrpose of a college newspaper'? Mountebanks is currently in search of a rehearsal accompanist for their upcoming JM: I think the student newspapet· does three things. First, it should be a vehicle by which individuals like y<Jurself can become involved in the community and offer your particular talents and, pEI\haps even, help your talents improve in some way or other. The second thing that it should do is in some or other way represent a sense of c<>rnrnunity. The third thing that it should do is to represent a student voice to the commUllity. I probably would change three and two around in retrospEct. But, overall, what the college newspaper does is to represent in some way the commUllity. And if it doEs it responsibly, it's taken seriously. If it doesn't do it responsibly, it isn't taken seriously-and all one does is look at the personals, I suppose. production of Gods pel/ If interested, please call Randi (38~- 4258) or Stephen ( 386-4086) DG: Have you ever put in a personal? JM: No, I have never put in a personal, but I have had a personal put in for me. ediType WORD PROCESSING SERVICE Resumes and Cover Let1ers Technical Typing Term Papers and Theses 1986 rates for first drafts received before February ,JI 1987 Phone 399-8762 On-Campus delivery can be arranged

• ·Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, FebruarJ' 5, 1987 Former \Star Wars'' Director Bowman Lectures Against Own Defeo~e J:»lan . . By D. B. GULLIVER Last Wednesday at 11:38 p.m., Dr. Robert Bowman, a former director ~f the \star Wars\ program., ascended the stage and said,. \One year ago today to th() mute the space shuttle Challenger exploded ... That incident liVas intimately related to the SDI, or 'Star Wars' program\ Thus, Dr. Bowman began. a fascinating lecture-and scathing indictment..- of the defense plan he knows intimately lifter ·four years of work irl the program. Dr. Bowman is currently the director of. .the Institute for Space and Secllllity Studies in Marylandaftera22-yeat career.· in the Air Force, which included over 100 combat missions in Vietnam. He is a graduate of R.P.I. and received his Ph.D. from Cal Tech. He designed ballistic missiles and warheads for all military services and initiated the Space Systems Design curriculum for the .Ajr FDrce Institute of Technology. ·From 1978-1981, he was Director of Advanced Space Programs Development for what is now the Air For<!e Space Division and in that capacity was one of the leaders ill sor development for the Ford and carter administrations. Overview of Attack md Df!fense c The lecture began with a discussion of the technology involved and the inherent problems in tile plan. Dr. Bowman used a slide presentation to illustrate the schematics of a Soviet missile launch and tlte American defense (see similar diagram below). He stated that the goal of the program was to intercept 96 percent of the missiles in the \·boost phase,., because at· that time missiles are most vulnerable: The e,mamt makes them more visil>le, particularly to infrared sensors. In addition, there are fewer, larger targets. Eacll missile will release at least ten warheads and ~. many as 100 decoys to draw fre away from the warheads. Warheads are also encased in ll heat shield, making them m11cb harder for a laser to destroy than a fuel- laden missile. Currently, there are about 1400 &viet ICBM's; by the time· SDI could be installed, there may be as many as 5,000. TechniealObstacles Even striking d11ring the boost phase woulll be difficult; it occurs over tile heart of the Soviet Union for at moSt 300 seconds. To sh~t down those missiles (which produces only the destruction Clf the missile, not a nuclear explosion) would require lasers based in or firing from space. Bo'VIIll8n detailed the two possible systems under consid~ration and the technical Qbstacles of each. Fil':st is tbe chemical laser battle station, which would require a platform the size of a football field and an optically perfect mirror (said to be nearly impossible .to construct) over 50 feet m diameter. This platform would have to contain a combustion plant to .power the laser, which would reduce its stability and therefore accuracy. The other system, Dr. . Bowman said, is tbe one · favored by President Reagan's science director. It includes a ground-based laser, with more power than the satellite-based laser, which would be aimed at a mirror;.bearing satellite in. geosynchronous (stationary with respect to the earth) orbit far from the planet. That satellite would reflect the beam at yet another satellite in a closer orbit which in turn reflects the beam at the ICBM's still in boost phase, just after emerging from the atmosphere. It weuld fire at tile missiles in space because each time a laser beam passes through the atmosphere, Dr. Bowman saidt it eXperiences an amount of distortion. To reach the first satellite accurately from the ground, the ground station would first fire a \callibration laser\ to determine tlle atmosphere's effects. The actual weapon laser would be aimed at the satellite a(lcording to those effects. The distortion, however, could change instantaneously and computers could, at best, only estimate the · necessary aiming p]terations. Bowman drew laughter from the audience, saying \This is not a trivial task, but then again, it's not as easy as it SOWlds.\ That was, as Dr. Bowman said, the \fists\ of the system; he 110ted that the system also needs ears, ~yes, nose, brain., and ner;vq~, IIYStem. The ears and, eyes .would be the launch detecting and the missile- tracking satellites, while the · nose would be the not-yet· designed satellite for distinguishing l>etween the decoys and warheads in the next layer of defense. The brain of the SDI system is the battle management computer, which would be responsible for plotting missile courses, tile future location to aim at, and . for co-ordinating the laser, mirrors; and missile eslection. In addition, considering that each low-orbit satellite is in motion, only one out of fifteen would be in position at best. The computer would also need to consider the weather, for clear skies would be needed for the initial beam; therefore, real time weather information from other satellites would also be needed. To coaordinate all this information is the function of ~Y form of attack, for even clai,Jit.e«i' that militar-y something as ~ocent as the · strateg~Jits -·believe that if the release of sand from a passing U.S. !!ot..Jld ~liminate 90 pel'cent satellite (let alo11e explosive of Soviet missiles aheadof.1ilne, projectiles) cCiuld mar the SDI ·~tJuld . destroy tl:Je surface. and lessen the re:m..ailide.-1'~ He statesi \'!Star reflective .qll8lities. That would W oars cCJuld work•-fCJr- an the nervotJS system. The links • between satellites and .sta.tions • would tell tdifferent lasers vhen to fire at which targets; which mirrors t~ be at which angles for relay p111\poses; and to. relay · information between. calibration lasers and we~pon lasers. decrease both .accm-acy and aggvess.>r-,. to defend ~gainm . power cf reflected laser beams. any Jrlissiles .missed in a flrst In addition, BDwman said, if strike.\ Jn combinatio11 with Dr. Bowman. conceded that the ''engineering challenges · could be overcome with time and money,\ but also cited another est;ential element ofthe system: the computer software. The Department of DefEnse estimates that the progrmll to run Ute s~t~m would ret~uire over 100 million. lines of code. Many claim that it will take the development of artificial intelligence to write suclr a program; indeed, over 90 percent of ;the members ()f the · National AICademy of Sciences say that it would .be impossible to write such a program for these objeetives. Dr. Bo'\VIllan siad that if writing su~h a program appeared diffie11lt, imagine the effort at \debugging\ it, remembering that the pr~gram would have to run perfectly the first time. vm.erabillty to Coutermeasures Dr. Bowman explained that one of his jobs With the program was, after a segment of. the systeJl} was .designed, to think of possible cot!Iltermeasures that the Soviet Uni.on could take against it. He emphasized. that to defeat thE entire system, ;the enemy would \only needtotake out one part-thereby leaving liS with a .few trillion cbllars of useless junk.\ Dr. Bo~an then detailed several possible points of vulnerability. Since every element Df SDI has its own electro11LCs for control, they are vUlnerable to · a Sillgle nearby nuclear explosion, which · produces - an electromagnetic pulse with the potential of ruining comp11ter chips. The individual mir~:ars would be vulnerable to virtually the Soviets reduced the amount rec~t U.~. deploym.e~ts caf. the of fuel their nrl.ssiles used ·and Pershina!lf and MXmissUe~, 1b.at kept their boost phase entirely • scellario might appear more within the atm()sphere, · · U~ely ttJ the Soviets. reflected laser beams would · SDI could be t1Sed offe11sively, have to again enter the Dl\. ::BoiW)rlan added, to acllj.eve atmosphere and further lose · doll1inan.::e in spac·e by power and and accuracy, The destr-oying S o v-i e t battle stationmethod would still · c o rn m.11n i c a ti o n a n d be effective, but W()tlld have less · surveillance satellite:; and time to track and shoot missiles theretlr debilitating tile since the boost phase would be op}lo&jJig n:ation. H~ a.lso wtder a minute. Between that · clabed that SDI we~!)OIIrY and the fact that each station · cotllcii:Je: !lirected against e:ities, woul.d only be in position for a . con~l\ldin~' ''SDI ls a IJlatant few hours due ta its orbit, . attelll.pt to regain a~s,olnte Bowman estimates that each military- iSqperiority dis:gllised Soviet missile collld reqllire as as d.efEI!S~.\ many as 15 battle stations. • Economics also become a· factor at thi$ point since the Soviet Union C811 construct 1000 · missiles for each. billion dollar laser battle station. To conlcl11de his countermeasures, Dr. Bowman · drew an analogy with France's · Maginot Line of W{lrld War II. Even if the United States built · an impenetrable defense against ICBM's, cruise .missiles . and ballistic missiles launched from submarines could be . launched from .movable locations and, . sta)ing in the · atmosphere, would be virtually invulnerable to laser defenses. SDI-Defense or Offense? Dr. Bowman said that, in his military judgment, if SDI could . be developed anci con~tructed .it would at best stop 10 percent of Soviet missiles. B11t if SDI is so useless for defense, be asked, . why is the United States working so hard. to develop it and why is the Soviet. Union trying to stop that · development? Bowman P~litieaiimplleatio:usofS[)l Givem these applicati()-ns, Bowna.n noted, the S~viet Unbn w-oEild sit back ap<l wa1eh the tT.8. develop a \'-P«lllS system !:hat would releg.a~e theiD to !lefinite inferiority. lie stated illat the U.S. !Pilitary do <ltri:nE is to prevEot tile de'Vel()]ltnEnt of any forei~SDI systeiD; lie believes that Sclviet dodrin~ must be the same. All often-rep~ated idea is tllat tile two coiiJltries co.uld share tile tecluiolC>gy; however, It~ .claimed t!Jatthe cowttries collld still us~ IILeir SDI system .tcJ destroyth:at of the other 1111ti~ll. SDI \Wolll!l ''make a first strike easier lrl eve~:y scenarb\ and ''pll();bai>Jr guarantees l):ucleax Wat~~ \·' West Fire Tests New Alarms . . Th:.e ms:wer to tllis diteDIDla is,. J)r.JJQiWlan said, t~ s.mr-lr, \casll in'~ SDI at Genewa ·ll!ld end this aspect of the arms race_ S11cb actions- wo111.<d lilsc better l'eilllti~ns between tlletwo C()untriefl. In his recent Slate. ()f the JJnib11 address, PresideiLt Re~gan implied that he would follol.l Ms advisors' di.rectbns and colltirlue to hold with ~DI. ByDESRA B. HONIG A fire in West College, RcJpm 407, Jantiary 25, put the sensitivi~y of the recelltly installed alams to the test. The fire, which originated in a wastebasket, was contailled, and therefCJre did not caiiSe damage . .According to Head of · Secw-ity and Safety, Clifford Woild, \He(thestudent) tried to · get a ballP<Jint pen to worlt, so he lit a match. Then he threv it into the wastebasket, thinking: it·' · was out. He smelt smoke,. atd threw his eoat over it, \Vblch somewhat muffled the fire. But then, he opened tile Window for Ho\'ev-e~ Dr. Bowman .stated, fresh air, and the fire ignited.\ Con~res:s llolds the pllrse- The alarms in the hall strings for the .project ud detected the smoke, ami the Congress, \listens to . WI~ \ rile Fire Department arrivecl at the people ()BJr push for the solation scene two minutes later. Gen~va a:ff4lrds; the solution Wood recalls seeing the thatpres:erv--esthe u.s .• (J.~ . .S.R. student, Whose r~om ·it was, Antl...;B.allistic Missile 'rrEilty attending a class explaining the and is in keeping with tile· icleals new fire alarm system. He of the mratified Salt U treaty •. gives the student credit\·for·bis ·Wisely,. Dr. Bowma11 see'S interest, but says that he should · diplo111;~ey- _, not techno low a~ have known: that th&\ proper the .solul!o~t: \We sh()uld Ilot procedure in case of fire is to , .. seek n!ltioDal security ·f)ut notify security: Wood reminds · comDIOII .security, f4lr o11t: all students residing in surviv~L,. and therefor;(! tile dormitories to call for help 1n suni-val10fthe world, is ineaeb 'similar situations. · other-'s ltmds.\ SURVEILLANCE·SATELLITE &ives early .warning o( launch SPACE·BASED ·RELAY MIRROR SPACE·BASED SENSOR tracks ICEIMumHVs; gives 'aimlntlinformallon to batt I~ ' st~lions and Jllirrors SPUE- B.O.SEO BAoliiLE STATION ·.•: 1' •• , .... - IRUI.l~l p•<tlfl• be•m I\ ', .fefleclslaser ; • I\ \. , · . lleam from ground . . / . ·.\ .. I' .\ • . . ·.t . . ' .. , .. \ . . • - . . I\ • •'\· .•• ' ,. I· •t , , ·I \' \ ' • • ~ .. \' '; ' ,. courtesy of Washingtoll :PQst.and Professor K.lun4< I' I: ·~ ' l, '_{

CONCOI_lDIENS!S. February 5, 1987 PageS AAC Approves of Further Research Gado~ Zwicker Settie Controversy · · · ·· · · h . h d Ch there is no faed between them Contmued from page 1 tbat ~veryone. as. a . a . ance and that theyare on. good tenns. For example, the original plan receivecl fiO percent· approv~; even ifthe second plan receives ' only 51 percent it still · supercedes tbe first. . to .off~r ld~as by now and -the. On WRUC's ''Bottom Line\ subc~mm1ttee has · work~d . · · · b Pr f exte 11 sively witb those ideas. t~k . show Fe . ~~ _ o essor Professor Gado said to this !Jado spo~e out ?D a number of reporter .February 2 that 1ssues, 1nclodmg. a . rec~nt altllollgb he does not believe Concordieasls art1cle wh1ch Pr{)fessors ZWicker and :Sorum repo~~d, h~ co~ents. _ Gado To see jlls1 what Union could· \c()llSpired'' to silence his satd, It s slightly maccurate .. receive ft>r a. new curriculum f · · did · .. she (the reporter, Debra see ''General Education;' .. !de;as., both _P':O essor~ . ' m Honig) got a lot ·of it right but ~forma~ !llet;tmgs, dispourage the connections were wrong.'' below. h!B pm-tlc~patlOn by.saymg tbat · He also stated, ''She tried to do Chairman of the AAC William ~ ideas v.rer~ t~ far !rom the a good job, she tried t~ be Thomas said . at the facUlty subc€lrnmittee s .direction. In a acctirate. rve had professional meeting that although the AAC memo to. th~ faculty, ~~~ journalists who haven't still supports thei,r .proposal, . . ~otethat ZWicker ~~d 8 .8!<lJr represented my views as they alsil .. have no ob]ectl~n to lde;as_ were not politic··~ accurately :as she did.\ A new meal Plan r:na.y make crowding at West a thing of the past. J:: == E (/) IC ·U \,) Cll .0 . Cll .0:: >- .0 ~ J:: Q. the foJ.liillllg. of a conumttee. pi).Silil>le\' and Sorlllll had Sfll . d d h 40 the . ~ubcommittee wollld not -~-~ M ·1 ·p 1· C • d d ·• Another]lrofessora.(le t_at entertain Hfundam.en·tal Ne·w. . co·· : .eg.·e .. ·e.a···· •.. an onsa ere I pel,'cent is a high . level of , G d · d th t disapproval and that the plan challges; · a 0 sal • a shouldgo;backfor furtherwork. ._ Sorb did invite. him ·to a Eff' • . Professor Willi-am Zwicker,. ru~~a~e~~a~u;:::~:j ''Grazing'' Plan Expensive But • ICient chairmam· of the subcommittee . ..., · G d d f d · on the pl:an, said in a October 9 he ~l time limit;. · a 0 e erre ·, Concordiemsls article .that \if a · say:illg that he could eKplain~his -ge·neral.· ·education .plan_. is to_ . positions fully ifi. the tune allDtted. He said that he would wor:k well, one needS a gener~ staid aside and let them work consensliS; otherwise, even if passed with a simpl~ majority, it will nQt b~ a good thing.\ Cpntinued from page 1 dogs,. on the other hand, can be cool;ted on the spot. Those wno do the preparing take care to put quality into their work, as well. \Nobody does this kind of job without caring about their work and the people they serve. They wouldn't be here if they didn.'t care.\ Jan Gray supports the emplayees -of ·the food service. She even goes so far as to send the employees to workshops to better their The cllr1Jent controversy arises 01ver whether or not further Qlve$tigation and work will ·produce any new ideas. Dean D:a~~iels said that the process · <>f debate on the General Education plan has been goin.g on for over two years~ origina~ing in the e!ouncil on Union Education; then the AAC and the subcommittee created specifically for the . plan. One ~eneral contentiqn. is · cooking skills. . f : Jan Gray admits there are ·E · problems, . but nothing . is fJ) perfect. The problem w1th § crowding is a major one~Meals Q) are not onJy meals but ·social ~- times as well. With funited Profe~sor · >- ·.0 0. ..... o· J::' ·a· and . '1at.er· present an alteJ'Ilative. ZWicker reiterates that there were an abWldance of open meetings that provided · ample opportunity for ~ suggestions and discussion. ro Gad() insists that, despite the time when a st~dent is in the dining hall suffocated with too many other students fighting · for . a place to sit, and the confusion of getting a meal with every one else getting in your way, and to top it off the meal isn't the greatest. It is hard' for the people iJi the dining hallS to make a perfect meal for everyone 1Vho comes· through. Sometimes the eggs are too · . runny or too hlll'd; or your burger is not cooked the way you like it, but one can only please some of the people some ·of the time. With the amo101t of mouths the food services is responsible for and the amount of food it is hard to g~ it right every time. If they mess up one percent of the meals a year, that is alot of meals. This year, too, they have been having alot of trouble with .staffing says Gray. \Students don't want to work in the kitehen; and we have not yet filled our nermanent oositions this vear. either.\ With a shortage of help it is even harder to run the system. ~ . appro'Val of .the clll'rent plan, .o therE 'Will be nothing. delayed or -E postp()ne.d by :further .c investigation. Fina.ly, botb c. ZwickEr and Gado insist that dining hoUJ~s it is a problem when the students stand around and chat. This is too bad because this is . wh_at the students like. The dining halls Cf.Ul serve 500, but not all at once. Some wonder . why the dining hall changes its hours after fall term. lt has always been the case that during the fall the bout would- be longer as · a courtesy to the new -freshmen; -'tfb let them get a feel for the dining hall and how it works. ''At a time when the new studenis are insecure. it is nice to have the time to get to know the place,\ says Gray. It is the Another problem with the meals is the repetition of the dishes. A lot of students complain that they see the same · things over and ovet again. · Gray says that the choice of dishes is limited because students will not eat a lot of Professor Frank Gado TBE GENERAL EDUCATION CURRICULuM The· propoaed Ge~eral Education CUrriculu. enaurea both a aoupd qeneral tlduc(ltion 1.nd educational ~readth. ~ achieve the firat. the· atuder.ta •elect eleven CO\Irlea froa a ilpeoified Hat of couraear t:o achieve J=he aecond. t:be~atudente select four couraea reatricted only by their aajor and divieion. 1 Frea~n~receptorial 2 S)llllboUc .Jidcl. Qu!ntitative -••onb19 couraeat see eatalogUe description ' · · · · · · · of current •E• category 2 Science cC!ut8ee; ae.e I.3 12 daicriptl,on of current: \C\ category ., ' \ t Applied Sc~ence and ~echnoiogy.co~aea ••• I.3 13 1 social Science courae& AllthropOlQgy 10.r l:conold.ca 121 Political · · · ·. · ·· Science 10, 11, 12. Us Paycbology 10r Sociology 10, 221 Cppu.lbly other.) 2-cour•e 11ietoxy S~~n(:ec Ancient: X and .III &urcpean .I and Ilr A!ie~ican · · · 1: .aad :n, (po!Jaibly o1:bexa) , 1 Civilh:a.tJ..oJI. courae•z BiJtory of-,.art:, auaic. idea~ (.econOI!Iic thought, · · · pb:J;i.tic.l. thoUght, scientific thought, rellqion)J Jion-weatern culturea1 pb:lloaop)jv *C.t tlle 3 required! CivUJution/Li_t:~ratua aouxaea, 2 .aet• boe aillaociat:ecl wJ.th tbe t:vo-courae Biatpzy aurvey., one with tJJ• 1irat part, the ether with the aeco11dl. 3 additiotni. couraea .(lutaide of the cUv!aion anct _d•p&rb!ent of the •1o:ta . . . A. t»ivi.s:l.ona III uti XV llre couict.red as en• fox t:hia r*~Uir ... nt. (lee J:.4 IS» em Jbg:l.neet~g require.ent:.a) 8. t~t:~departlllent&l •:lora between. two di viaiou .. c aez:u-aiology. e'tc,J ¥0\llcl uke an arbitrary choice .()f their B01ie cUv.l.•lon. '.l'bey vo~:~ld haYe the awant:e~ of autoaatically ut:iafyinq thaix extra•divbional di&it:.dbutiOil roquir.,.nt. foods. For example, they will not eat organ meats like liver. They tend not to eat variety meats, they panno.t. serve certain foods_ together because of certain religious beliefs of some students. There collld be answers to these probiems. As for the repetition of dishes and the tastes of the students-well that problem would be difficult to solve~ but the problem of crowding and the short hours of the dining halls may be solved by changing. tile system the food service now uses. Other college have experimented with a system called tbe grazing or the maxi-plan. This gives students wllimiteddiningduringthe day. This system is good because it is budgeted on .the basis of how much the average ,person eats a day rather than how much one eats at a meal~ This. would mean that the food. students take out of the dining ,halls to snack on between meal$ would now be paid for because it has been taken into consideration in the budget. This- system is so arranged that it would not necessarily make more work for the cooks and the students would like it because they could eat whenever they liked. \Of course we want to make the students happy,\ Gray adds. One thing that this system requires is a new meal card. The system of one person punching the card is loose. It is very difficult for them to regulate who comes in to eat. Gray says there are many people who slip by the attendants and eat for free. To make the cards for the meal card system we now use costs $2,000 with tile new system, called a Validine series, it would cost much more. The system requires a plastic card that one inserts into a slot and a computer re~ds how many times one has been in to eat. It then either gives one access. or not according to what it reads. So, if one has been in the dining hall for the lbnit of the day or the week the computer would know by reading the card. This system would eost $56,000 to instail (hardware and soft ware) and then $13,000 to maintain it. \'l'he grazing plan somtds like an .idea worth investigating,\ .Jan Gray commented .. It may be a bit expensive, but. it may do away with some .pr-oblems in the dining halt As it stands, college food is tolerable. When asked \Is college food all that b3d?\ student Missa Blake sa,id, \I eat it.\ Put aside the problems we have here at Unioo with. the food service and the food- is edible. c. S'ti2«AAnta who chan~. ujora btttveen 4ivbliona ttOuld .,. able t:o aae t:.be couraea already taken in expectation of co.plet:lng their fi.:1t: llilljor t.o aatllfy &:be •xt.ernal divi•ion r:equlr ... nt, i.e. • • ·Student Forum President . '' · aJ.olcgy ea'ot \d.U 4 scioncD coune• who ahift:.ed i:o l:conoaic• aJ.gh't ue 2 of tbe acience cou.ra.. to aati111'y the aaloince re~~ireaent and coun~ the otber 2 toward the extra-divisional ·-· relillirea~ent . Steven Moss will appear on WRUC 89.7 Bottom Line Sundar at 9:00

-PaiJadino . . Hi, my name is Robin Palladino and t am ·running for the position of Freshman Representative t(l the Student Forum. As our Freshman year approaches the halfway point, it is difficult to believe we've made it this far and even harder to realize that our college careers have only just begWl. We have ~·lot to look f()rward to•· from OW' four years llere at Union. For insian()e, the opening of the Alwnni Gym and. the Student Center will surely add new dimensions t() campllS life. However, these valuable resources must be actively pursued and taken advalltage of by the student body as a Whole and our class in particular. Through responsible input these assets can be developed to best serve student interests. The same holds true for other issues on campus. Now tllat we all have been here for a term. I'm sure that there are a number of issues that stand out in your minds which you would like to see changed in ordert~ improve and enhance life at Umon. 1 feel that with · resporrsible · representattion these ideas and suggestions Will mak~ o11r four years here memorable. As freshmen, now is tile time to mold this campus into a place that we will be happy with and proud of. The only way to aChieve this is by having our voices heard and I~ Robin Palladino, am confident tbat I can make sure they are. Together as a class we can make a difference. · Bemis I have experience that I can utilize to be a cor:n,petent representative of thiS freshman class. I have been an offic:er of a county wide .. org~~·ie~~; .. fpt; mbre than four and aha1f years, including one and. a half years of leading this organization, and I have attended .New York State and National Leadership seminars. With these. ex· perlences, I win, .if elected, press upon the Administration that we are. very.·~ .. {mit. . oyed with .. · their actions dealing with tbe pJwne rates and gel-time. 'l'hey . should not have shoved th~ two items down our throats! I will also try to apply pre88Jate to have. the Nott Memorial, ,~ · on the National 'Register ox HJstortc. Places, restorect. In its present state, the .. No.tt Memorial fa a disiJracel There Is a commitrnemt to thla oollege, COIIIIDiiDlty aiKI nation to have the Nott Mcaton.I: restored. Finally, l. will.. be veey ~;·,~,.)-\ ~ ~ ,~., .. \'lA' ?l\~5''-\'~'~'·~.fY\\';..l·,c~· ·,. · £6NIJ8R8113NSIS..·Februtli'.V 5, Jl:'JIJ 7 ... re8ponsive\. to-.tl'le 'needs· and wants:otthef'reshrnwi,elass-and. make sure their deSires are .hear.d. I w.ill strive to make sure we, tbe students of Union College,. get. the very best and nothing less will do. Brown Hi! My O:ame is Lisa Brown. As you can' obViously see, I am rurui.irig · fot ·. th~ - t]Osition · 'of· Freshmar( Representtttive to · the Student Forum. If any of you don't know Jlle,. you may have just overlooked me, since l'xn not ·exactly the . tallest person on campus. For those of you who have, you don't know what you're misSing. When I first came here to Union, I asked myself what I could do to become involved, as many freshmen do. One possibility that I have found is the Student Forwn. To me, it represents a challenge to learn more about Union and to be an active part of the college community, expressing my views and those of other fresh- men to the best of my ability. I am familiar with the proceedings . o.f the Student Forumandtbelieve that I am a well prepared candidate for the position. I can assure you all that within this small frame there lives an enthusiastic, bard worker. Hynes Qualifications · editor of school newspaper officer of senior class active athlete at Unio·n (basketball, lacrosse, soccer) Goals .administration functions~ In my dealings with the ad- ministration, it appears thattbe administration has not taken into account all sides of .problems dealing with student ·· affairs. As student representative-, I will deal with this problem of student-administrative com .. . munication and appropriate a stronger voice in the Student Forum. I will not take only my views, but also those of the students I am repres~n~ing, you the freshman class, mto the StudentF[)rwn, I will also try to create a more diverse social life. Lazar The office of student representative should be filled by someone with leadership exper~ence and qualifications. During my high .school career, I was vice president of the Spanish Club, no I wasn't, I was treasurer of the Student Government. Yeah, that's it, I was treasurer of the Student Government. I got to play with all the money :my school raised and I must $BY l did a great job. My honesty and vast political experience will allow • me to serve .my freshman class the best way I know. how. So remember, Friday vote for the best candidate. Vote for Howie ··Lazar. ATTENTIO'N JUNIORS; available to listen and act upon your ideas and concerns · .Ptactic~~ _realilt~c;; \:tic• •. , > complliiimu!nts \ . • • . ' ' ' Anyone interested in running for the position of JUNIOR REPRESENTATIVE· get sunflower seeds in West try to keep the hot. chocolate machine from running out Statement: AN EXPERIENCE OF .A· LIFETIME! JOIN US ON A TOUR OF CHINA SEE THE SITES SUCH AS THE GREAT WALL, A .PEKING DUCK DINNER .•. LEARN CHINESE! THIS TERM WILL NO DOUBT BECOME \OUTWARD BOUND\ OF UNION DAVIDSON LOUNG~ . FEBRUARY9,1987-7:30:P.M. - .. ~-twt~\-{1 ~ CONTEST FEB. I 2, 1 987 ~ ~ SIGN-UP•s ~ ~ 8 § • SIGN UP TODAY BEFORE g ·~ YOU FORGET! ! .._ • LAST CHAN,CE. TO SIGN UP ?. • I •• IS WEDNESDAY 2l11 .... ~ n ~ • P·RIZES -TO TH·E WlNN:E~RS :: • SIGN: ·up 'lN THE ·~ . STUDENT ACTIVITIES .~ OFFICE: X6118, 3RD FLOOR OLD CHAPEL CALL TODAY HALE HOUSE'S 'FI~N'E D·I·N·IN;G INVITES YOU! Dinner Menu Strip Steak _ Boneless .Breast ofChicken -ni~htly Specia Is -served over rice Pasta Speci a I. All of t11e above served with tosseit salad and fresh rolls $4.25 $3.85 ~ $3.85 :' The primary job of a representative should be to listen and. actively pressure pursue a happier campus life . for an and if sunflower seeds •on the Student Forum, D{ffel'tnrt Desserts Nightly Bee.r and Wine Available for. Diners 21 and Older and hot. chocolate are what you want, I'U do my best to get them. · ~cohen Ple.ase pick up a petition and election .. guidlines at Student Activities 3rd Floor Old Chapel. He/eHouse · .Fine.Dining Htiuse MoJtdtly •. Fndap 5•7p.m. Open't()'faeulty, students, administration, everyone ·welcome. : . '· . ' ·::r .. ;.: .. : ... 1: HavJng been at Union for fifteen weeks now, I m.ve bad vatious intetactkmi with the administration on both the ·disciplinary and academic · · .leveJa and rve 8een bDW the '---------~,~. ~. -. -·\:\\'.· ..... _. ''\\'·~· .Pi!! •. -. \\-\~._-!!ii!o. ·\\\· !11!1 .. \\\\'\\'_..,_.,...,.., . ._ .. ....,....._~\\\\l!'i' ... .., .. _,.. . - . - .

CONCORDJENSIS, Februarp5,}9!J·7 Page7 .FEATURES '\>ublic Speaking C . . .. ompettt1on tonight: 'Thursday, February 5, 1987 West College Dir~ing Hall, 7:30 pm Smart dress reque!;ted. By BOBBIE BLil\lKOFF It is elusive, intangible and invincible. It· is symbolized in the beautifying aura of the $ly .feiilinine my:stiq:ue and made blind. It has been afforded the supreme duty of upholding tho/ balance of all societies, from the microscopic .to the. all en- compassing, being in the position of dispelling right versus wrong. We allow it to slash into our personal lives begillning prior to conception and extending beyond the \cosmi(! (Jrder of things,\ yet, it is inconceivable for it to maintain human shape, and surely impossible for it to ac- cept the .irregularity of human emotion. · Justice. In the hwnan world of these 1980's, this omniscient, l. ·.·. omntpotent presence prominently exists, but in this tolled and troubled world of the 1980's, It proves to ·only an- '--~--------\\\\\\-.......,.,.;_-,;,;,.,...._, ____________ _. . nihilate and hurt. Peo~e today Public Speaking Contest ~=~~ must relay on strength · of Byl)EQBIEOOLLIN At this time the student oon- portantly, it gives people the character, will, and mo~ un- test!lrit speaks on .lli.&her topic -opportunity to overcome their fortunately, people today must There are many of us who, in as the judges score them on fear of speaking in public, an rely on, and allow themselves to our everyday lives, find ab- creativity, coherence, sub- .activity most allof us are faced gamble With, the inconsistency solutely no problem in talking stance and logic. However; only with at least once in our lives. of Fate. ThiS ability to accept about a subject that we either 12 of these cont.estants are Another promising aspect of the the powers of Chance, tbrowing know notlling about or com· actua1ly chosen: to be finalists at competition is that it is one of . ourselves into the arena of pletely do not understand. Then the final'presentation ~.lleld the only places where you can Choice, md beginning to pande.r again, there ate others of .us this evening, Thursday, get· students, faculty, and staff the risks of a world disregar- who seem to relate anything February 5- at 7:30 in West together for a night of en- ding Justice has to enSlle. and everything to one par- College. It ~here where other tertairunent, which is not only ·But what am I, a madman? ticular subject, say.sex, with no students and faculty can. View rare, but very appealing. First eclloing the sounds of a questions asked. Or how about their friends in a repeat per- Rosman mentioned that great Nietzsche freak, then ex- those people who, no matter fonnance for valuable . cash contributions were made by plato rating the need to manifest what, decide to di~cuss a sulr prizes. Dave Katz and Jennifer Ash real life Parker B1·other games, ject which has absolutely no On speaking with the com- which will make the project an and finally culminating in all relevance to the topic in mind? _petition~s cooliliuators, Brian. even greater success this year. out Mao\.?! In reality I may _ Well, whatever· category you Montag antl'Adam Rosman; we It is an opportWiity that is fun believe t1Jis to be,sq, but my · might fan. into, there· is an op.- can see-the benefits behind this for both participants· and identity at this time is a Union .portunity to exercise these project;. tliey feel that this viewers. Hopefully, with per· . College Senior Wtable to grip abilities at the 1987 Annual .competition helps .to fill. a void serverance, the traditiiJn will many ofthe even more weary of Public Speaking Competition. in the school for intellect11ally continue throughout Union's the contending possibility that During the past three days, challenging activity outside of history. We Hope to see you · the outside world may be worse. approximately 40 student$ the ·classroom and more im- there. · For wstance, 1s the United decided to delve into this den of .----------------------------------, mystery by trying out fot'the Public Speaking Competition. Each contestant is asked to pick a sealed envelope (from ,a. hat, nonetheless)· containing an· quotati:on. After openi.Dg ·thi$ envelope, he or she must read it aloud to the two professors and two students who~ are .scoring the competition. Then the student has 30 seconds to ponder :and create biS-hef discussion which must cover -(at least) a two ininute 30 sec:ond interval. : ... . . , ... ·. . . . ' ' . ' . : ' ' ' Diner of The Week - BylEElACHOWDHURY and CAROL HAAS Service- 3 Food Quality - 3 .Ambience- 3~ · · The Olympic Diner, loeated. • off State ,Street on BrandyWine · .. Avenue; offers an alternative to <· rme food·diili.ng. Open 24 hours a day, the Olympic has a temp- tingly enensivemenu, One may choose from a Wide Brl\ILJ' of soups, sala<J1!, sand:Wic-lles,. burgers, omelettes,. 8J!d .. main entrees. ·upon our VJSLt, . we opted f<>r ft!e speci~ of the daY which was broiled sc~Hops,a salad, potato and vegetable, and the Olympic Double Delue Cheeseburger which came with french fries and coleslaw. We must say that we. found .these items very much to our liking indeed. The scallops were perfectly seasoned a11d the cheeseburger was good, though tad heavy on the grease, as were the french fries. One of the distinguishing features of this diner ,was its charming ambience. There were plants everywhere and the decor was:positively nineteenth century nouveau classical. And despite the snuil1 and llardly noticeable panels (Jf fake stainedglass, there was a wann feel to, the place (definitely somew~ere you could .take your .A1111t Roz when she com~ lip to · 'Visit). The waitresses were friendly and service was quick. And as if all th~:~.t weren't enough, tCl top it all off, the Olympic had a very attractive dessert eart - chocolate cheesecake, walnut torte, apple pie, and much,, much more. Because we were qllite full after the generous portions that came with the main meal, we had to pass on the d~ert. However, if anyone attt there has tasted an Olympic Diner dessert, please feel free to write into Coucordy and tell us about it. We will chart your corrunents on our el[clusive Union College Diner graph opinion poll. Next week we take you to the very heart of the Electric City when we viSit the G.E. p.JPPie's diner. Tirrah, loves. States Government goin~ to put . mandatory telecommumcations lines in all of our homes, only to ten us later that we've paid for the whole deal. Will there be a financial aid department in the city which I choose to live in, where UpOn entering I am ch~stised (not unlike a pet seeking comfort in a family sofa)fornot trying hard enough to make more money. After I have left the financial aid department, will I have to seek refuge in the administration of tlle city hoping that these human looking enough people must understand my plight only to find out they \wtderstand but that it is \just their job,\ or ••just the way it is.\ And am I going to have to face the wall and repeat over and over that a major· ingredient in our soup of life is in fact money. For the first three years of my College career 1 was able to dismiss all of these situtions with the joy of humor 8lld a cold beer. T9(1ay, with the doors of Union leading :me out of its shelter, and many other close family members becoming ill, the comedy is appearing tragic. While I was home over Christmas, my father ap- proached me and said, \Robbie all these ideas you have are so true, and it is certain. that money will get in the way along your rqad, but when aomeone is sick, you. begin to realize how useless all of those things can be.\ Writing these words brings the lump back In mythroat, and makes me want to throw it up at those powers of Justice, the furies of Fate, and the in- consistencies of Chance. I'm not really .sure why I wrote these words, b!lt 1 know how that I had to. I also know that this inviolate \Justice in its attempt to intrude on my world has also offered me one remedy. Tomorrow, and every day to follow, I'll have my blinders on, various Parker Brothers games in my brief- · case, ·and an invisible placard on my back that says, \Life or Bust.\ We're all Freshman at Heart This is a renrltJder . that all summer and .fall 'Si term abroad applications are due February 9, 1987 in the Term~ . . . . ~ , ' . Abroad Office, HU Th_e Socia'I·Committeepresents: 211. Summ~r; Socialized Medlcjne Fall; Italy, I . . France, Bath England, .. York.,England, Chbia and Japan · WINTERFEST 1987 DOWNHIL·L SKIING AtWHiard Mt. Sunday, February 15 $5 Uft ticket and transport~fion . *Ticketago on sale Monday, Feb. 9 atfhe ticket booth. • . • • . ; : . · • . . *ltentals are the responsibility of the lndivi~ual, e~nd boot s1ze must be prov1ded wflen buymg tlle ticket. , **\'RA.'s ••. It's a greatftoor activity

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, Feh1•uary 5; 1987 ; - - FEATURES.: - ::. Talk of The- Town The Conct)rdy recently asked: \What did you think -of President Reagan's State of the Union Adm dress?\ Drinker's Exclusive photos and interviews by AI Klapper \As usu~l he s~id nothing, O'Verdramatically.' 'Steve Moss '87. \I think. he shouldgoback to Hollywood! I just have problems with someone older than my grandfather running our country.\ Matt Halperin -'87. \Typical Reagan ... no 'Qig surprise.\ Prof. Tom Warner, Chemistry Dept. \He was good as, usual, with rhetoric and personal magnetism. Reagan was Reagan.\ Dean Daniels, Poli. Sci. By KRISTINE ROBINSON . and MAlA &NZER - Hello fellow lushes! Welcome back. The Lushitivity Council .sincerely hopes your vacations were out of control. Speaking of being out of control, we just realized yesterday that the tenn has started, We would like to thank Leslie-Lab·ite for pointing this out to us. (we think). The Lushitivity Council has been deep in lab . research with the two new recipe books which were donated by Hilary Henkind and Caroline Gegan. So we have zillions of new drink ideas. But we wop't pUe them all on you at once. Okay, it's winter tenn. So, what can you do during these months besides· walking through mounds of salty brown snow-stuff that covers that beautiful layer of ice aoove the sidewalks?· Well, we believe · that . extending the length of your feet and positioning yourself at the peak of: a high snow mound makes a good · alternative to struggling to those classes you only fall asleep in anyway. But you must f!rst prepare yo~lves for a day in the cold. We suggest you begin your ski trip with the followiJlg drink. When you get.immurdzed for the flu, a little shot of. the sickness prevents you from catching it. Similarly, to prevent frostbite~ you must. not orily layer up and put on your Gore-.tex, but you should conswne the ''Frost· bite.\ Just as skiing takes a little preparation ana planning, so does this drink. You must have crushed ice, white. creme de cacao, Kahlua, peppermint Schnapp's, cream, and coca· cola. Directions: Fill an old fashioned glass with the ice,add llh oz. crerne de caco, lh oz. Kahlua, and 3 oz. cream. Stir slowly one or two turns~ Add in lh oz. peppermint Schnapp's, and slow dashes of cola, g1ving this Frostblte a flQating effect, hopefUlly You will float away with it on the slopes, hopefully it should keep you warm~ on that first lift ride. After a few r~ms, you are prob~bly-getting thirsty, as weu as a little tired. So to .pep you up, you are going to take out that Philosophy Forum • • • thennos ·that has been filled with ·the followmg drink, tbat infamous \Slalom.\ This drink has the_ simplicity and con• veruence that we all look for in a drink. It should aloo knock you and your skis. down the slope real quick. All it takes is a simple ·3 oz. of PeppeJlllint Schnapp'sto every 6oz: of Beer~ When the thermos~ empty,. you are read;v to hit those .slopes once agam. Okay, everylift.ticketmust at some thne expire, and you ·have to head back to school. In . all likeUhood you will be· pretty cold. And depressed ~t the thought of that test you have tomorrow in one of the Classes YOU; haven't been to yet. So, it's time for thermos nwnber two now. ThiS is a drink that will warm up your insides and lift your spirits. It containsthe .rest of that infamous bottle of peppermint Schnapp's inixed with hot chocolate, This drink is called the Blow-Torch, and we guarantee it will live up to its ~arne. Well, our fingers are tLred and we dOn't want to stay here in the Uquor lab too much longer, so until next week that's ~. - \Once again, Reagan has proven that he is the master of ['hetoric ... in 20 minutes he succeeded . in conjuring up images of America, while at the same time avoiding the issue.\ Brad Flansbaum '87. ''Th~. High Country of The Min3'' By KEITH YOUNG The Literature of Wartime Mountains. They're at once inviting and formidable, simple and full of depth, beautiful and monstrous. There aren't many people in the moWitains, - tc asc~nd one is·to find solitude, a refuge from· the teeming masses below. The sense one has on the top of a mountain cannot be had elsewhere,. a sense which brings together polar emotions, freedom and captivity, elation and fatigue, certainty and confusion. of thought. It considers ''the most general, most abstract\ questions, questions of knowledge, truth, reality, the soul, meaning. Like the high country of the moWitains, the high- country ·Of the .ffiind is inviting but also poses harsh demands, ,~equifing long, in· tense, umnterrupted con- centration in pursuit of solutions to problems. As also is the case with the high country of the mountains, the high country of the mind is frequented by few people. By CAMERON KENNY \Studies in World Literature: War in Modern Times\ (English 35) is a course that explores the manner in which \the two world wars of the twentieth century have affected all of our lives and influenced the ways that we, as con- temporary .Americans, think about war.\ Professors Jenny Skerl and James McCord in- struct the ccurse, and the literature of Hemingway, Graves, Remarque, Celine and OWen are examined. In past years, Orwell's Hctmage to Catalonia and ScheU's The Fate of the Earth have been in- cluded. Professor Skerl, who is in- structing the course this winter tenn, believes that the study of literature within its historical context, an increaSingly popular subject, is crllCial to the understanding of the ex- periences which prcduced the literature. Skerl has :given special emphasis tCJ the first World War, f()r in her opinion World War Two \is generally viewed as a repetition and . continuation of World War One, and 'herefore has had less cultural impad;.\ World' War One was the first 41 modern\ war in which techniques such as trench warfare and w;.eapons such as machine guns were utllized on a large scale. The massive destruction caused by WWI and WWII has drastically affected our civilization and the work of many of our great modem authors. Professor McCord, who designed and taught ''War in Modem · Times\ last winter, believes that the course should teach students to \think very seriously about the life and death ls8ues' 1 raised by the literature. He felt that the course had an overwhehning influence on his students last year, and umade them more conscious of the fragility of this life.\ In essence, \War in Modem Times\ seeks to instill in its students a serious and thoughful understanding ·of . twentieth century war and the literature it has produced: In Zen and the Art · of Motorcycle · Maintenance, · Robert Pirsig draws a parallel between the high country of mountains and \the high country of the mind.\ The high country of the mind is, like a mountain, elevated; it is con- cerned with the uppermost level In contrast to the high country, there is the low coWitry of both the material world and the mind. Down from the singular experience of the mountains, there is the everyday experience of the low country, work, going to school, transporting ourselves from _ Whether you ardor ph.za, subs, •odao •n•c:k•o popcorn, or anythln; elsw f'r.o111 the Rock •n Roll Piaza Pub, you're nqt only 9ctttlr19 better prices tt-aan·of\f'-caf11Pu• plaaarlas;- you'r.IJ so,apporUr19 student -rkers as -.11.. Delivery h• f\r•!'• on or cf'r-caMpu•• duri119 all busa.,... houra. -~ open 7 day.s a -~~~~ 'fro• lt~O P• until 12100 ••• 1a30 P• until 1a30 •• on Friday and Saturday, thrau;hout the school ywar, t<eep in •lnd- that the 1110ney venerated by the Piua · Pub r•turns back and is rorwardctd towards •tudent lnt•r••~• and Union Coll.;e. And be•ides, it's vood plaza! Honest! So please visit us at t•t floor We•t COllege or call for- delivery. ~-cut Piua $:5,00 toppings include• a-cut -Pi-IZa Stt,OO slices-atilt only .eo 111 'full sub half •ub popcorn .!50 ~C!a ' •. • ,Y ,< ~·~ COOki.. ' .SO Drelca's calc- .so juice .60 Ch&tlle turkey, or roa•t b-1'1 -- ' 1/i- ~· • pepperoni IIIUshrao•• peppws ·anions ol ivws sausa9• broccoli C•lnlMulll •~.oo order Cor 6-cut plzzal ror delivery, toppiftlls subJect to avaiiabi llty~ J place to place amidst other similarly busy persons, operating Within a vast network. that offers goods and services in exchange for money and plishes us to acquire more money so we can purchase more goods· and services. Most_ .,qf )1uman. thought takes. place: within the realm of Uu.~ low coUntry, thought centered Upon what will see usthrough th.e day an<:l what will make tomorrow a better day and what hedonistic ac-- tivities we can engage in to break up our monotonous lives and appease our senses. The low country is necessa·ry, without a system to provide us with the basic necessities of life, we do notlive. However, the low country of the mind is also shortsighted, it can harclly see beyond itself and its own im· mediate environment, and thus can do little apart from per- petuatJng its own short- s~htedness. . The high country of the mind is able to see beyond itself and as far as thought will. take it. Like the mountains; the high coWltry of the mind is a vast expanse waiting to be explored, any kind of question can be examined at any depth. The high country of the mmd is not for everyone, however, it does exact a price, a price too high for most. It requires discipline over mind and body, patience and . dogged determination in seeldng answers to questions. It also offers little in the way of tangible benefit, its main reward is improvement of the ndnd and spirit. Such a gain may not be high on your priority list, but . ask yourself this question: Do you want to spend the rest of your life in the low country? Announcing:. TH~TA DELTA CHI'S 2nd.Annual · -IN Cost: $1.00 each Proceeds Will Go To Chanty

CONCORDJENSJS, Febr,u4ry 5, 1987 Page9 FEAT'URES Career Dev~loprnem1 ~Center On th·e Career Scene: _- Dr.usi Testing:.,\ BYMAGG$ BOITANO Government employees have been subjected tQ random p..ug ~creenjng ever since President Reagan required th~ procedure ht the beginning of 1985. Since tllis initial law, 30 percent of an new college graduates and . 90 percent of all Fortune c;oo eompanies have experienced ot implemented drug screening in lliring procedures. The goal: to keep the WQrkplace a drug-free ·«>ne. As a result of the .il1crea sing importance companie~ have been placing on tltese procedures, many valid issues have arisen• Students .as well as .employers need to be more aware of the implications o~. such procedures .. Is it· the bast solution? · te:sts then · that person is aUtCJIIlatically rejected as a can.ddate for employment. - \Vrh:.V is this such a· big issue? 'llie major complaint raised from:tllese procedUres concerns -itli ~ssible unconstitlltionality. Deblates are still being voiced abo11t. whether or not the tests viobate · the 4th .Amenclment wbi~ll 'is meant to .protect people ~'iJr their persons, houses, pa:pers and effects,. against urureaso-nable searches and seizllr\~.\ Is drug screening similar to searches of houses or bo ~: ?' . . u.es .. (informing more than the necessary number of people .in the company and subsequently defaming the employee) have been reported. · The important thing for emploYers to be aware of in tkis whole controversial issue is to take a closer look at the test results and see. if they really test the job applicant's ability to perf()l:m on the job. Students need to be cautioned about the fact that you may indeed- be screened for drug use when searching for jobs and a current knowledge about where the . debate is going is a useful tool. Last summer 18 Union students participated in a summer research fellowship program. The fellowships were granted for swnmer research in 8 different departments. Last year's program was the .first of · its kind at Union. It was done on a small trial scale but was so successful that the administration decided to secure additional funds. to continue the program. The program is designed to give superior undergraduates the opportunity to wor.k on a . summer long research project under the supervision of a faculty member. The student and the faculty member will jointly draw up a research proposal which will be evaluated and the best ones chosen for the summer program. Any Union College Wldergraduate is eligible with preference being given to sophomores and juniors, but proposals will be considered from any student. The research is to be conducted during the summer with a final report reqUired upon finalization-of the project. A student may also choose to sign up for independent research credit for the project p.rovided that it is approved by the student's sponsor and the chair o( the relevant d~partment. This swnmer there Will be approximately 40-60 research fellowships available. The dramatic increase in the ntunber oUellowships av:ailable is due to both an increase in IEF and private funding. The summer's funds are limited to $1,250 per project and most of the funds should go to provide a student stipend. Students receiving a fellowship will also be provided with free on- campus holiSing. Applications can be obtained from Peter Tobiessen, 8324 Science Center or from the Academic Dean's office, 8100. Completed applications and supporting letters from sponsors are due in Professor Tobiessen's office in the 9th week and final decisions will be annoWlced in the 10th week, Questions about the program should be directed to Peter Tobiessen C6241l. What exactly is drug s~Creening? Drug screening is a methoc! ,employers are using to assess Whether or· not pOtential employe'es and even current employees will be ableto live up to the standards of job p.erlormance required by the c~mpany by testing, urine, blood and hair samples for the presence of \hard drug\ s u b s t an c e s in c 1 u d i.n.g marijuana, heroine, and alcohol. Companies see a negative rElationship between job performance and drug use, and they want to eliminate cmdidates whose drug use may \~dversely affect the safety, pr()dUctivity, and general level of health of (the) employers work force.\ Sillce its initiation in 1985, 13 out of 17 cases involving go'Vermnent employees against tbe :\lSe of drug tests bave up-h.eld. demonstrating tbe illeg;ality .of the tests. Some of the ::pr()blems that have arisen as 11 reslllt of the use of these tests center aroWtd the manner In wltieh companies are using tbete~ts on employees. First of all, .as a potential employee, if yo1,1 faiL the screening, the eiOp.byer often· does not infonn yo11. o:f the specific reason .for yolll\' :rejection (failW'e on the SC!ll!elli;ilg). Employers also oft·en:take the results cf just ohe testl:ilg and use th.em as final .deCJiidillg conclusions whereas folloT-tlp testing after negative resuJt~ seems to be a much m<JrEl j~t procedure. Finally, seve:I!aJ· cases concerning the wtJlrofessional manner in which lab01~~tm'ies handle results Many colleges all over the United States are reacting to this issue by providlng students with information ~bout drug screening, JoAnne Tobiessen, of Union's Career Development Center Students interviewing at Union need to be aware that they may be faced with this.\. In general, co~panies tend to test after an offer has been made although cases of onsight testing have also been cited. In fact the CDC has been receiving letters monthly from companies includuding GE, NCR, Texas Instruments, and Eastman Kodak, infonning them that they have initiated drug screening in their employment practices. The CDC intends to publish any new and more specific information they receive, as soon as they are aware of it. GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE every Friday 12:30- 1:30 p.m., Hale House Drug screening can take several fol\'IlS including the areas of direct questioning and laboratory testing. Specifically, pre-employment question· naires, polygraph tests, urine, blood, and hair sample analysis collStitute the major methods practiced today. If a potential employee refuses to take the Inter-Study Programmes of Bath, England Interfaith Colloquium E)iiVENDYZIMMERMAN the Jewish religion; the Sabbath, \the primary ritual block which celebrates time,\ the three primary festivals: Passover, Shavuot, and Sukkot, as well as Modem holidays; Yom Hashoah (remembrance of the Holocaust), Yom Ha Hzmaoot (celebration of Israeli independence), prayer, and ethical ·observances ana practices. . to say that the Protestant religion has a strong emphasis in\ affirmation of your faith and owning Jesus Christ as Lord\ It involves the affinnation that \God is love.\ A discussion involving essemtial practices and beliefs of .JtLdaism and. Christianity tooik !Dlace January 24 at 7:30 p.m. · ia Fox lounge. Three gueiits :panelists ~poke for appr:oximately 20 mmutes each and then answered questions. Thes:e panelists were Rabbi Samt uEl Kieffer · (from Con~rcegation Agudat Achim in Sche:nectady and president of tb~ l(;apital District Board of Ral!bis}, Deacon Russel Kratz ( frmlill t:he Roman Catholic St. , , trganbes . pr~grams far. Thomas Church in Delmar, , . . . . . • . • . chiteE of Adult and Continuing Deacon Kratz began by discussing the focus of the Catholic religion, a \Ucharistic communion\ which was mandated by the third commandment to keep the Sabbath holy. He spent a good deal of time discussing the fact that the church structure is extr~mely _centrali~ed,. starting. The question period that followed wasn't exactly what I had expected even though it was tbe part I had. actually looked forward to. Although each tried to provide relevant information on such incredibly broad topics, it was information most of us had heard before. No issues dealing with . interfaith situations like inter-religious marriages or abortion were brought up which could have been beneficial. One question did spark a bit of involvement. A bOy born and brought up>-in Italy wondered why in the United States \people (of different religions) feel they are better than the other,\ after all \we're all people.\ American students WIS~tng •. Ed11ca.1ion in the New York to student at a British . &tatl:l Department . . of . . . . .. ;;:,- Ed11ca.ti.on), and Reverend J~po univE!rsity,· whether 1n • DaJJrter (from F1rst london or outside~ · 1 · • Con!:i:egationalln Gloversville, · in Rome with the Pope (Bishop of Rcme), to the Priests and then t() the Deacons. · predient of the Hudson Robe.rt Collins,· Director · Mo·h~\'k Association -of the of Inter-Study, will .be on • Unitei Church -of Christ) .. Ra.blli Kuffer started off the -campus TODAY, February · evenhg by eXplaining the basic Reverend Danner stated that because of the diversity in the Protestant religion, he was not ..~!peaking for all. He said it was 5, to;:. talk· with students • div:is.i~n:sin Judaism: Orthodox, .. d • . U • Cons;e!fVative, and Reform. He 111tere~te tn non· n1on . _ br()UIJht ,up what he felt to be llritisli programs~ You may :, . fivelliiSie points in overviewing \those against the church in the 15th and 16th centuries that created the division in the Christian church.\ He went on Perhaps if a set list of topics and-or questions had been previously supplied to the speakers, the colloquium would have been more of a success. m~~~~h~•·4. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••~ t~nd 5 ·p.m. in the Terms · · AIJroad office in . II!Qmanities. -lllternationa1 Relations CluiJ Presents• Great l)ecisions: Dealing with · ·l~e Constitution and · forei~n Policy. Febrtiary 11 . at 1 :3q ._ . ~P .. M .. , Hale Hous• Lower-Lounge. I\ rile second student exchange between Union Collage and Kania I University of Foreign Studies .ji!C 111111 a~ Galdal) In Osaka, Japan will tcwka place In 1987-88. Under the program one student from l.lnll~11 wm spend the academic year at Kansal Gaida I and one st.udentfrom Kansal Galdal will coma .tm,IJIIil on. . rhe exchange student from Union will live with a Japanese family and study both 1poken JillpCinesa and the reading ancl writing of Japanese as part of his or her academic load. In addition, h.e Qr she will· have the opport1.1nlty to take a n1.1mber of courses on Japan and East Asia taught In E11(llllh. Soma of th& courses lncl1.1d&d cue \Modern Japanese Politics.'' \Japanese Economic D141walopin4tnt,\ \Japanese Style Management,\ \Modern Japanese History,\ \China and Japan: A.1pact~ of East Aslan·Civllb:Cition,\ ,;Mod~rn Japanese Literature,\ \$1.1rvey of Japanese Art,\ and \.J•panese-Amerlcan EconomIC: Relations.\ fiie year-long program will :afford the Union st1.1dent an unprecede~ted opportunity to get to .. btawJapan and the: Japanese people. He or she w.lll be able to partfdpateln the group activities . o!ftbe Term Abroad students d1.1rh11g the fall term, such as the excursions led. by tho resident Union fc:ICIIIJity member,. and wUi have time for lengthier trips !nand outside of Japan d1.1rlng the break _ b•tween semesters. ·. S.tu!lents who are Interested In applying for the Student Exchange Program to Japan should caltltact either Professor Thoma~ 2J 1 D, or Profasior Thurston, Social Sciences 2138, ......... ' '· ORIENTATION COMMITTEE Applications are now being accepted for positions on the Orientation Planning Com- mittee. This group of ten students will work with faculty and administrators to develop and execute the New Student Orientation program and will also choose the sixty student orientation advisors. Applications are available in Whitaker House and at the Old Chapel ticket booth. Due Date: February 13th Interviews Begin: February 16t~ · Call x6061 information. for more Last Day to Withdraw from Courses Friday 2/13

Page lO. CONCORDIENSJS, February 5, 1'987 (liDltfllfbtrnsis Filling the. Void in Student Activities Due to the change in the New York drinking age, reconstruction on campus, and other factors, it has been necessary ~o fill a great void in Union's social lifestyle. Students no longer gather at the Skellar and frater- nity/ sorority parties are not the great big bashes the:y once were. A large part of this gap has been filled by two rather special adniinistrators-Lorraine Mar:ra .(the Coordinator of Student Activities) and Jerri Clark (the Director ,~>f the College Center). On any given afternoon, one can find 15-20 students :fn the office of Student Activities located on the third floor of Old Chapel. Many of these students are club and committee heads who .work directly with Mrs. Marra and Ms. Clark, and others have worked closely with them to create new ideas and projects that b~ve given an added dimensiC>n to the social life of the College. The of.fice of Student Ac- tivities,- while working closely with stu.deJ;J.ts., .h~s .()jfered \ several programs that help to create tbii3 new sacial' at- mosphere: discoUnted tickets at Proctor~s; new fbreign languake clubs, the 21 club~ and a · great · Win-teriest weekend coming neJ.:tWeftk.- · ·· t ··. - . . - · ~. .. .•. ·~ ~t-. ,.~.,~·~·'!_,..,·!; .. _ ·: . With strong support from the Dean of Students, they llave also put together the College Bowl trivia contest and the Student Times publication which should help keep stuclents abreast of the new activities on campus. Their motto has been to \Bring the entertainment t~ the students not the studen.ts to the entertainment,\ and tltese new programs along with their strong support netw<>llk has made the Student Activities office a crucial point of UnJon's socialand educational well being. We must applaud the efforts of Ms. Clark and Mrs.Jiarra and hope that with the arrival of the new College Center these options will grow in order to provide Union st11dents with good times outside the classroom. The· Nuclear Deterrent Peace is the ideal political condition. However, many feel it is impossible to attain in today's international turmoil, particulary with the· existence of nuclear weapons. S.u«!h an immense potential of destruction looms over the lle~d of each individual on this earth-and, ~et the remov-al of these weapons is feasibly undesirable. Their excisiOJl· from a nation-state's military arsenal cannot and should !lot be expected; their presence is fixed in the internatiopal S<!ene~ Thus, since true peace is not likely, to come as close tCl this ideal is the next step. Nuclear weapons are the instruments through which to reach this goal. , Although this seems a paradox, to threatea the destruction of the world in order to preserve and prcJmote peace, the logicality of this policy has been hist()rically proven. No other time in history sinc::e the birth ()f the modern nation-state (marked by the Treaty of Westf)halia in 1648) has there been an absence of a major world ·war in forty consecutive years. This claim can be attributed tc. the existence of nuclear weapons; they are effective deterrents of war. Those nations that belong to the \nuclear club\ :realize their position and do not dare flirt with the prospect {)f a nuclear crisis. Tile often unspoken policies of fir-:lt and second-strike capabilities are ·for political power games. Assuming such a stance brings diplomatic validity to their threats. Lacking such a willingness to resort to the t1se of nuclear weap.ons,. a nation's claims are invalid. This demonstrates the nuclear club's responsibility towarcls the possession of nuclear arms. P~~9f. ~fJrns~t:~SP9nstpiJi.ty js: evident in the Vietnam War. ruthougli this war oc<Jurred\ well atter the birth of the nuclear age, it wasn't allo-wed to escalate to a nuclear level. This tendency to avoid nuclear confrontation can be further explained by the simple Darwinian theory--the will to survive. A nation and its leader, whether super~power or third-world, have the instinctual desire to; live.\ Th.ey un- derstand the ramifications of sending off a nuclear missile; ultimately, such an action will ensure· reciprocation. What makes nuclear deterrence work is that nation- states do not have to agree to. follow the doctrine; th~y must follow it for the reasons stated: the will to survive is a concept that precedes all cultural and political differe11ces. It comes down to a question of whether or not one weighs frequent and destructive conventional wars heavier than the slim possibility of a nuclear war that comes with nuclear deterrence. After viewing the success of nuclear deterrence in the past half century, it see~ that both conventional ~nd nuclear war can be avmded through the respollsible possession of nuclearanns. LETTERS .Student Should Consider China To the Editors: I'm VITiting to encourage students to consider applYing for the term abroad in China next fait If you tbink you might be interested, pleas~ act quickly, since the deadline is next -week and interviewing starts soon thereafter. For th()se among you who are curious about other cultutes, consi<ler- how intriguillg it would be to live in a place where the polite greeting in the morning is \Have you eaten?\ and where the.equivalent to 11 ·I'rn sorry'' iS the phrase \I'm unable to face you.\ For the more practical- minded, remem~r that 1986 two-way trade between China an<l· the U.S. topped $4 billion. I know a fellow who went to China for a term, stayed a year, learned spoken Chinese,· and now works in the Peking headquarters of an international bank. If you'd like to talk about the tenn in Cliina, stop by my office in the Social Sciences building. As someone· who~s ·spent his whole aclult life studying the com.ttry, I'm raring to go, and hope to recruit an eager ,group to c{)me along •. Alld come to China Night - Monday Feb. 9, Davidson Lounge, 7:30 - to eat some jiaozi and hear what last Y{;!ar.'s group ha$ to .say about life in· Nanjing. Sincerely Bruce L. Reyn(Jlds Professor's Puz.zle Puzzles To the IDditor: Judging fro~ his puzzle--letter last week, Professor Zwicker is very .fond bf pulling infonnatian from Ce~neordie:nsis .. It's a shame b.e had to ilse it out of context,. which I'll .address in a moment, ·but first, let's, use some · Con·C:ord:lens·h information that cannot be out of conte;d~ for it. is a direct quote from none other than. 'Professor Zwicker himself. Commenting on the faculty vote (held one month l3ter), he said, ''If a generaleducation program i!;l to work well~ one needs a general consensw; otherwise, even if passed with a simple majority, it will not be a good thing.'' 'The faculty vote showed that more than a simple majority. Do you, Profess()r Zwicker, still feel that it will work well? Look at the logic of your own words and the facts· of the vote~ · Let's· take a look, at· your puzzle~ F()r starters, you never included a response to part No. 2 in your' solution. Couldn't you clearly and factually disprove the charge that you and Profess()r :Sorum conspired to keep Professor Gado's ideas from beillg heard? Either it's a mistake in. your puzzle or No. 2 is true. · . As for Jason Green's letter: Jason is a person with strong opinions who often expresses himselfill the open forum of our commentary page. Anyone has the right to speak out on that page, be they right or wrong. A.s . you did last week. The \lack of enthusiasm\ section:. I don't think anyone in · their rig:ht mind would say you and others worked on the plan due to alack of enthusiasm, and no one at all would draw the absurd conclusion you did that \they do not strongly support their o-wn pFoposal.\ Unless, of course they heard what I did at the faculty meeting, that even you \were .disappointed there hadn't been more debate on the subject.'., . Have I corrected the \very ~ AI~ l,t1te'l. .. !~( !~! ... ~.~!to~: ·must be typed double- spaced mnd submitted by 4 p .. m. each Tuesday before • public11tion. All letters .. must lie signed by no more than four people -.nd all writers should provide · their Clddresses and phone numb&rs for verification of the leHer. Names nor- . · m-.lly will not be withheld. · Concordiensis reserves the right .to re,iect letters that · · are lil»elous or do not : conform to standard of . ff.OO~ tCI$fe. few'' people, as yo\1 said, who might have been confused? I£ one. looks~ at ·. the faets, and disting.uishes them. : ·from. opinjon:s, .. one ts· \o ·long~r confused. Perhaps yo.\1 :Should do the same, starting With yOl,U'· own. words. I can't resist one last cDmment. :After· weeks of reporting on the creation of the proposal and the debate and discussion process with · no response, .it'$ ironic that it took the . publication of extreme opinions to generate interest. I heard one faculty member (whoJl!l don't knqw) s~y i,n the • meeting called by Professor Gado's .. petition that he · bad never seen so•·many ,of his: colleagues togetb.er~befere. You might be. a.sking. -why khav.en't spoken ;up-· soaD.er;. Professor· Zwicker; I have 1 at the Student Forum meeting~ and ·I spoke- essentially in .favor-of tbe plan •. It's a good piece of work, but if 40· percent· of your colleagues; disapprove, it needs further· consideration.· Sincerely,. David Gulliver _ letters to th,e · Editor an.d C;ommentaries do . ·.~ ·'not_ necessa·rily· reflect the opin-ions·· of the editorial· board of Coricordiensis ',;-; -. '' ~' - '·' ~ ·~·.

Page 10 0Jnttnlrbirnsis Fourukd at limon Coll~c 187'-:' ------------ -------- Filling the Void in Student Activities Due to the change in the New York drinking age, reconstruction on campus, and other factors, it has been necessary to fill a great void in Union's social lifestyle. Students no longer gather at the Skellar and frater- nity/sorority parties are not the great big bashes they once were. A large part of this gap has been filled by two rather special administrators-Lorraine Marra (the Coordinator of Student Activities) and Jerri Clark (the Director of the College Center). On any given afternoon, one can find 15-20 students in the office of Student Activities located on the third floor of Old Chapel. Many of these students are club and committee heads who work directly with Mrs. Marra and Ms. Clark, and others have worked closely with them to create new ideas and projects that have given an added dimensian to the social life of the College. The office of Student Ac- tivities, while working closely with students, has offered several programs that help to create this new social at- mosphere: discounted tickets at Proctor's, new foreign language clubs, the 21 club, and a great Winterfest weekend coming next week. With strong support from the Dean of Students, they have also put together the College Bowl trivia contest and the Student Times publication which should help keep students abreast of the new activities on campus. Their motto has been to \Bring the entertainment to the students not the students to the entertainment,\ and these new programs along with their strong support network has made the Student Activities office a crucial point of Union's social and educational well being. We must applaud the efforts of Ms. Clark and Mrs. Marra and hope that with the arrival of the new College Center these options will grow in order to provide Union students with good times outside the classroom. The Nuclear Deterrent Peace is the ideal political condition. However, many feel it is impossible to attain in today's international turmoil, particulary with the existence of nuclear weapons. Such an immense potential of destruction looms over the head of each individual on this earth-and, yet the removal of these weapons is feasibly undesirable. Their excision from a nation-state's military arsenal cannot and should not be expected; their presence is fixed in the international scene. Thus, since true peace is not likely, to come as close to this ideal is the next step. Nuclear weapons are the instruments through which to reach this goal. Although this seems a paradox, to threaten the destruction of the world in order to preserve and promote peace, the logicality of this policy has been historically proven. No other time in history since the birth of the modern nation-state (marked by the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648) has there been an absence of a major world war in forty consecutive years. This claim can be attributed to the existence of nuclear weapons; they are effective deterrents of war. Those nations that belong to the \nuclear club\ realize their position and do not dare flirt with the prospect of a nuclear crisis. The often unspoken policies of first and second-strike capabilities are for political power games. Assuming such a stance brings diplomatic validity to their threats, Lacking such a willingness to resort to the use of nuclear weapons, a nation's claims are invalid. This demonstrates the nuclear club's l:\esponsibility towards the possession of nuclear arms. Proof of this responsibility is evident in the Vietnam War. Although this war occurred well after the birth of the nuclear age, it wasn't allowed to escalate to a nuclear level. This tendency to avoid nuclear confrontation can be further explained by the simple Darwinian theory-the will to survive. A nation and its leader, whether super-power or third-world, have the instinctual desire to live: They un- derstand the ramifications of sending off a nuclear missile; ultimately, such an action will ensure reciprocation. What makes nuclear deterrence work is that nation- states do not have to agree to follow the doctrine; they must follow it for the reasons stated: the will to survive is a concept that precedes all cultural and political differences. It comes down to a question of whether or not one weighs frequent and destructive conventional wars heavier than the slim possibility of a nuclear war that comes with nuclear deterrence. Mter viewing the success of nuclear deterrence in the past half century, it seems that both conventional and nuclear war can be avoided through the responsible possession of nuclear arms. CONCORDIENS!S, FebruarJ'5, !987 LETTERS Student Should Consider China Ta the Editors: I'm writing to encourage students to consider applying for the term abroad in China next fall. If you think you migllt be interested, please a~t quickly, since the deadline is next week and interviewing starts soon thei\eafter. For those .among you who are curious about other cultures, consider how intriguing it would be to live in a place where the polite greeting in the morning is \Have you eaten?\ and where the equivalentto \I'm sorry\ is the phrase ''I'm unable to face you.\ For the more practical- minded, remember tb.at 1986 two-way trade between China and the U.S. t<~pped $4 billion. I know a fellow who went to China for a term, stayed a year, learned SJ)<)ken Chinese, and now works in the Peking headquarters of an international bank. If you'd like to talk about the tenn in China, stop by my office in the Social Sciences building. As someone who's spent his whole adult life studying the coWltry, I'm raring to go, and hope to recruit an eager group to come along. And come to China Night -Monday Feb. 9, Davidson LoWlge, 7:30- to eat some jiaozi and hear what last year's group has to .say about life in Nanjing. Sincerely Bruce L. Reynolds Professor's Puzzle Puzzles To the Editor: Judging from bis puzzle-letter last week, Professor Zwicker is very fond of pulling information from Concordiensis. It's a shame he had to use it out (){ context, which I'll address in a moment, but first, let's llSE some Concordiensis information that cannot be o11t of context, for it is a direct q11ote fram none other than Professor Zwicker himself. Commenting on the faculty vote (held one month later), he said, \If a general education program is to work well, one needs a general consensus; otherwise, even if passed with a simple majority-, it will not be a good thing.\ The faculty vote showed that Jn()re than a simple majority. Do yoll, Professor Zwicker, still feel that it will work well? Look at the logic of your own words and the facts of the V<lte. Let's take a look at y()ur puzzle. For starters, you never included a response to part N(). 2 in your soluti()n. Couldn't you clearly and factually disprove the charge that you a11d Professor Sorum conspired to keep Professor Gado's ideas from being heard? Either it's a mistake in your puzzle or No.2 is true. As for Jason Green's letter: Jason is a person with strong opinions who olen expresses himself in the open forum of our commentary page. Anyone has the right to speak out on that page, be they right or wrong. As you did last week. The \lack of enthusiasm\ section: I don't think anyone In their right mind would say y<lu and others worked on the pllln due to a lack of enthusiasm, aJld no one at all would draw t:he absurd conclusion you did tllat \they do not strongly support their own proposal.\ Unless, of course they heard what I did at the faculty meeting, that even you \were disappointed there hadn't been mof'e debate on the subject.\ Have I corrected the \very All Letters to thp Editor ·- ... .:'\ .. :. ... - ., • l' -. • t.. • ~ must be typed douiJie- spaced and submitted b'Y 4 p.m. each ltJ.esday befGre publication. All letters must be signed by no mGre than four people and all writ.ers shGuld proYide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the leHer. N11mes nor- mally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves 1he right to reject .letters that are libelous or do nat conform to standard af good taste. few\ people, as you said, who might have been .confused? If one looks at the facts, and distinguishes them from opinions, ()De is no longer confused. Perhaps you sbould do the same, starting with your own words. I can't resist one last comment. After weeks of reporting on the creation of the proposal and the debate and discussion process with no response, it's ironic that it took the publication of extreme opinions to generate interest. I heard one faculty member (whom 1 don't know) say in the meeting called by Professor Gado's petition that he had never seen so many .of his colleagues together before. You might be asking why lhaven't spoken up sooner, Professor Zwicker. I have, at the Student Forwn meeting; and I spoke essentially in favor of the plan. It's a good piece of work, but if 40 percent of your colleagues disapprove, it needs further consideration. Sincerely, David Gulliver LeHers to the Editor and Commenta,ries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Coricordiensis ' ,, \ ' ! I !

CONCORDIENSJS. February 5. 1987 Page ll PAULSCHOP •.• From the ~lbaJJ.y Desk Profe.ssor Discusses GOvernor This week Fto111 tile· Albany always been consistent. 1 Desk presents ao. iilterview with suspect that he has been very Professor James Underwood. consistent, because.·he has ~pent Underwood is a member of the so much time working at it. .political science· department. Cuomo is one of the most He ~ cmrentlr oil. ~bbatical <!omplez: men that I !lave ever and 1S engaged n vvr1tmg a J:Jook seen in politics~ He is much onGovemorMm-l~»Cuomo. This more _complex than either book will fo~us on the Lyndon Johnson or Nixon. He ·governor's iderus! ·and values, has a great deal of diid$n for and the programs·. wbich they what he ~es as certain negative have influenc:ed. Professor aspects of the political proce$8. Underwood, alo11g. With Dean He has said that, in politics, you Daniels, is tile author of tcy to make tJUngs ~irnple, and Governor Roekeleller m New end up wlth the simplistic. He York: The Apex·~.· Pnsmaile has ~so $1J0ken out against Liberalism ill the United Statea. · what he feels hau~ been empty · Q.) On M()nciay evening ~oganeering. nmors were clrelllatillg_in the· ThiS. raiSes. an inter~g media that. indieated ~- the question; whiCh iS whethef you .governor- w_.s .plannmg· on- . ·can get slogans and-simplicity .i:imning for the lTe_siden.ey, IUld ·oat'ofpolitics. He-:has sai.Cl QlaDY that he bad alfeady.set JJ,P some ·thinge~ that coUld·becOJne ~pty secret CIJDpalgll orcanizations. slogans, such as ·the 1 'F8plily·of Do you beliel'e that the$e New Yo~\. and 'cJ~b$ and nunors ar.e. true~ _ · · . Justice.\ He bas talked a great A.~ :~e_.gov~r.~as: ~c,l dea~ abo11t ~ompassion. In· that they are not tJ'\H. It coQld · short, he has said 811d done be· tllat. SOineone. ls fo~g tbings. that he does nDl like in· something witllollt ·· tlie others. · governor's co11se11t~ Sometimes Q.') Do . you t•l: .that the . tbe . staff 9f a · ·prom-inent governor .has ·deliberately politician wants their bo$$. to underestimated the size of New run .for higher .office so badly York's windfall ·increase m that · . they start . t~ese revenue that brut resUlted from COlJlDlltte~. ~ happenef,l bl the new federal tax law? Mlil!lY .the cases of Senator Robert legiSlators on both -sides of the Kennedy and Speaker Stanle)' aisle feel that he has so that he Fink. Fink's staff.vmted him to c.an propose a huge ~ eut next run for gpvem()r~ year. when be may be running I do think that b~ will nm for for President? Pres~dent in 1988. ~t is hard to · A.) I feel that he is making a predict when he,WiiJl 81lllounce, conservative estimate. He becau~e he 1s such an wants to play it saftJ. unpredictable perso11. Q.) If the surplus is much The story on M():nday was that larger than has been predicted his staff was divided. Some (Originally, the surplus due to thought that the best strategy the tax law change was would be for him t() announce estimated to be $1.75 billion. It late. He did sa.y, at one time, has recently been predicted to that he believed tllat be might be $2.5 billion.) wollld you not be the best <:aJJ.didate for e~ect the governor to propose President. I recall a reporter either new tax cuts, or new having said that mth Cuomo spendiJlg programs? you get what yo11 hear. Cuomo A.) There is, at this time, no has said, that if y()u check the way of knowing what he might record on his speeches, he has do. He could propose a little of ;· I I I\ I I I I I I I I. • l!o I I I~ I I I I I • I I I I I I I e I I I e eacb. One theme in his rhetoric has been that you cannot meet all.of your needs. C~er used to say this. It may be one reason why he lost. - Political columnist Garry Wills has said that Reagan won on the :politics of the free lmch. He has refused to deal with complexity, with problems. Cilomo may win the Presidency because he does talk of complexity and .major problems. Cuomo does ))ave an advantage. He is following Reagan. Q.) Why do you feel that the pr~~ '~.been .trYing to force C1lomo to anno.unce his inte11tions toward the Presidmcy next year? A.) I tbklk that the fixation that the national and statewide poliijeal colunmists have on the questic)n of wbethet or . Qot · CuQmo,will run is a reflection of a ~sire for --national e~itement. I don't think that Cuomo is· an indeciSive. 'lbe press . see him as indecisive because be hasn't .8JU1ounced. hi order to · properly 1Dlderstand Cuomo, one must understand his heroes. His greatest hero is Sir 'Ibomu Moore. Moore was a Catholic advisor to Henry VIti. He did not want to go into service. He extracted a promise from ·Henry Vlll to always give honest counsel. In the end, Henry VID forgot his promise and had Moore execllted. Cuom() has been lucky. He has served as governor during a time when the state has a great deal of money, like Rockefeller. Hugh Carey, on the other hand, was unlucky. He became governor in 1975, at a time when the state was almost bankrupt. Cuomo has also been lucky in that the prison . takeover at Ossining, which occW'red early. in his first term, was settled peacefully. It could have become another Attica. COMMENTARIES • • - • - - ' I \Student Times\ to Appear Next Week . - A new publication for students Will be distributed each Tursday, at the locations where Concordiensis is delivered, beginning February 12. The \Student Times\ wHI be an informal, quick re-ference list of activities and events for Union students dur.ing a one week peri~d. It will be compiled by the Office of the College Center and Student Activities, witha Tuesday noon deadline for each Thursday publication. Unlike other calendars of events, the happenings advertised in the \Student Times'' will be organized under five major headings.: Arts and Culture; Entertainment and Leisure; Science, Nature, et, al;· Geography and Administration; and Sports. In addition, a ''History\ section with Union trivia questions win be included each week. Student organizations, academic departments and administrative offices are encouraged to use the \Student Times\ to advertise concerts, lec- -tures, social eventS, tryouts-for groups, application deadUnes, etc. See Jerri Clark, Director Qf College · Center ·Activities in Old Chape.l or call x6129 for . · more ·information. 1:NYESTMENT CLUB MEETING NEW LOCATION: 55105 MONDAy I FEB. 9 AT 7:30P.M. All are Welcome IHE FINANCIAL AID APPLICATION packet is available in the Financial Aid Office for 1987-88 •. Anyone planning on applying for aid who has not received an application packet should pick one up immediately. Deadline for the FAF is March 1st and for the completed application is April 15th. Contact the Financial Aid Office for \ . 11ore information. Rock 'nRo/1 PIZZA PUB· 370-6060

I ·; .I ~- 1: .• ' ,, ' ' I ! l' ' CONCORDIENSJS, February 5, 1987 Page I I PAUL SCHOP .•• From the Albany Desk :Professor Discusses GOvernor This week From the AlbaDy Desk presents an interview with Professor James Undenv()od. Underwood is a member of the political science department. He is currently on sabbatical and is engaged in writing a bo()k on Governor Mario Cuomo. This book will focus on the governor's ideas and values, and the programs which they have influenced. P.rafess()r Underwood, along with Dean Daniels, is the author of Govemor Rockefeller ID New York: The Apex of PraJD18tie Liberalism in the Uldted State&, Q.) On Monday evening rumors were circulating in the media that indicated that the governor was planning on running for tbe Presidency, and that he had already set up some secret campaign organizat;i()ns. Do you believe that these rumors are true? A.) The governor has said that they are not true. It ~uld be that someone is forming something without tile governor's consent. Sometimes the staff of a prominent politician wants their boss to run for higher office so badly that they start these committees. 'Ibis happened in the cases of Senator Robert Kennedy and Speaker SUuUey Fink. Fink's staff wanted him to run for governor. I do think that he will rtm fDr President in 1988. It is hard to predict when he will announce, because he is such an unpredictable person. The story on Monday was that his staff was divided. Some thought that the best strategy would be for him to announce late. He did say, at one time, that he believed that he might not be the best candidate for President. I recall a reporter having said that with Cuomo you get what you hear. Cuomo has said, that if you check th.e record on his speeches, he has always 'been consistent. I suspect that he has been very consistent, because he has spent so much time working at it. Cuomo is one of the most complex men that I have ever seen in politics. He is much more complex than ei·ther Lyndon Johnson or Nixon. He has a great deal of disdain for what he sees as certain negative aspects of the political process. He has said that, in politics, you try to make things simple, and end up with the simplistic. He has also spoken out against what he feels has been empty ~loganeering. This raises an interesting question, which is whether you can get slogans and simplicity out of politics. He has said many things that could become empty slogans, such as the \Family of New York,\ and 61 Jobs and Justice.\ He has talked a great deal about compassion. In short, he has said and done things that he does not like in others. Q.) Do you feel that the governor has deliberately underestimated the size of New York's windfall increase in revenue that has resulted from the new federal tax law? Many legislators on both sides of the aisle feel that he has, so that he can propose a huge tax cut next year, when he may be rwming for President? A.) I feel that he is making a conservative estimate. He wants to play it safe. Q.) If the surplus is much larger than has been predicted (Originally, the surplus due to the tax law change was estimated to be $1.75 billion. It has recently been predicted to be $2.5 billion.) would you expect the governor to propose either new tax cuts, or new spending programs? A.) There is, at this time, no way of knowing what he might do. He could propose a little of each. One theme in his rhetoric has been that you cannot meet all of your needs. Carter used to say this. It may be one reason why he lost. PelWcal col11mnist Garry Wills has said th.at Reagan won on the politics of the free lunch. He has refused to deal with complexity, with problems. CuDmo may win the Presidency because he does taUt of complexity and major problems. Cuome> does have an advantage. He is following Reagan. Q.) Why do y01u feel that the press has been trying to force Cuomo to announce his intentions tC>ward the Presidency next year? A.) I think that the fixation that the national and statewide political colUIDllists have on the question of wilether or not C110mo-wi11 run is a reftection of a desire fllr national excitement. I don't think that Cuomo is an indecisive. The press see him as indecisive because he hasn't announced. In order to properly mtderstand Cuomo, one must understand his heroes. His greatest hero is Sir Thomas Moore. Moore was a Catholic advisor to Henry Vm. He did not want to go into service. He extracted a promise from -Henry VIII to always give honest counsel. In the end, Henry VIII forg01t his promise and had Moore executed. Cuomo has been lucky. He has served as governor during a time when the state has a great deal of money, like Rockefeller. Hugh Carey, on the other hand, was unlucky. He became governor in 1975, at a time when the state was almost bankrupt. Cuomo has also lleen lucky in that the prison takeover at Ossining, which occurred early in his first tenn, was settled peacefully. It could have become another Attica. ~ ........... ~ .......................................... l COMMENTARJE,S \Student Times'' to Appear Next Week A new publication for students will be distributed each Tursday, at the locations where Concortdiensis is delivered, beginning Februa·ry 12. The \Student Times\ will be an informal, quick reference list of activiti·es and events for Uni·on students during a one week peri,od. I twill be compiled by the Office of the College Center and Student Activities, witha Tuesday noon deadline for each Thursday publication. UnHke othe.r calendars of events, the happenings advertised in the \Student Times\ will be organized under five major headings: Arts and Culture; Entertainment and Leisure; Science, Nature, et. al; Geography and Administration; and Sports. In addition, a \History\ section with Union trivia questions will be included each wee.k. Student organizations, academic departments and administrative offices are encouraged to use the \Student Times\ to advertise concerts, lec- tures, social events, tryouts for groups, application ·deadlines, etc. See Jerri Clark, Director of College Center Activities in Old Chapel or call x6l29 for more i-nformation. INVESTMENT CLUB MEETING NEW LOCATION: 55105 MONDAy I FEB. 9 AT 7:30P.M. All are Welcome THE FINANCIAl AID APPLICATION packet is available in the Financial Aid Office for 1987· 88. Anyone planning on applying for aid who has not received an application packet should · pick one up immediately. Deadline for the FAF is March 1st and for 1he completed application is April 15th. Contact the Financial Aid Office for I more information .. Rock 'nRo/1 PIZZA PUB 370-6060

Final Examination Schedule I IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular \day\ UD\' dergraduates courses •. A se.parate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 and 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Adey in the Office of the Registrar not later than March 6, 1987. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. · AB- Arts Building BH- Bailey Hall BU-Butterfield Hall HU- Hwnanities Building N- North Wing, Sci./Eng. Ctr. PY- Psychology Laboratory SS- Social Sciences Bldg. SH-Steimnetz Hall Monday, March 16- 9:.00-11:00 A.M. EGL-064- Late Romantic Literature a H. FreWld- HU 019 ' ESC-048- Semiconductor Devices & Circuits Sec. l·E. Hassib • N 116 Sec. 2-Y. Chang-BUlOG MTH-01()..()1· Calculus I .. D. Stone • BU 204 MTH-012- Calculus 1- D. Stone- BH 201 Sec. 1-J. Muckenfuss- BU 204 Sec. 2-J. Muckenfuss- BU 204 Sec. 3~E. Gillette- BH 108 Sec. 4-.A. Prindle-BH 207 Sec. 5-A. Prindle- BH 207 MTH-014- Calculus III Sec. 1-A. Sseiken- BH 102 Sec. 2-L. Tatevossian- BH 104 Sec. 3-D. Stone- BH 201 Sec. 4-W. Fairchild- BH 106 Sec. 5-G. Ledder- BH 205 .. .. Mondo,y, MQn~h 16-!;CHH;OOP.M. CSC-010-01-Computers And Computing-G. Marten· N 012 CSC-012..01-Programming For Natural Sciences- L. Almstead-N 014 EC0-039-01-Public Sector Economics- D. Schaffer- SS 012 EC(}-138-.01.- Quantitative Methods in Economics- E. Motahar- SS014 EC0-147-01-EconomicsofUrbanProblems .. J~F.Burgess-SS105 EGJ,.-045-01-Philosophical Fiction-F. Gado- 00110 . . GER-140-01- DasdeutscheMittelalter -A. Warde, .. HU117 HST -084-01-Scientific Revolution: 14Q0-1700 .. S. Sargent- SS104 PHY -126-01-Nuclear & Particle.Physics .. R. Magahiz- SH 106 PSC-012..02-Contemporary International Politics~ J. C. Laursen- SS112 PSY -034-01· The Psychology Of .Languag~ ·'f.. D' .t\ndrea PY 213 PSY -039-01-Psychology Of Sex Roles- 5. Benack- PY 2~3 . RUS.134-0l-Intermediate Russian III- N. Jernakoff., HU !}3 SOC-12U..Ol-Sociology Of Medicine-~· Lyng. &.. T •. W~in~er- SS103 . . . - Tuesd~y, March 17- 9:GO-ll;.QO P.M. BI0-023-01-Ce11BiologygG. Sinith&F. Lambert-$S016 BI0-170-01 :-Endocrinology-G. ~.utterstein- BH 2Q7 .. . . . CHM-154-01-~qy~ic~lObemi~try lit-~. J\tliter~on ~ ·~1llQ4J '· . . , ~. · CLS-022-01-History Of ~ome; Th~.~epu~c:· J. Mar;mcola .. HU 019 CSC-011-01-Programmm~ For Social Sciences- J., Castleberry- N 014 EC0-029-0l-Modeling & Snn Of Econ Poli~y- H. Fried- SS 112 ECQ-031-Ql ... Microeconomic Analysis- R. ReynoldB- SS 103 EER-149-01-Dhtital Circuits- E. Hassib- N 118 Term 1987 . . Wednesday, March 18 D ~: oo- U: 00 A.M. . ARS-040-01-Introduction To Music, Part I- H. A. Wilson- AR 215 BI0-16()..{)1-Histology & Organology- W. Roth- BH 104 1 BI0-165-01-Neural Circuits & Behavior- R. Olberg- N016 CER-131-01-Structural Steel-KP. Weiss- BU 104 EC0-012-03-Introduction To Economics- L. Sage- SS 104 EC0-020-01-Intro To Statistical Analysis- S. Schmidt- SS 014 EC0-036-01-Financial Markets- B. Lewis .. SS 103 EGL-023-01-AmericanShort Story- F ~ Gado- HU 115 EGL-027-01-Comedy- P. Heinegg- HU 019 ELL-033-01-Energy I- W. Aubrey ... N 222 ESC-018-01-Intro To Digitaol Computers .. J. Gajjar- BU 300 ESC-33-01-Fluid Systems Analysjs- T. Jewell- BU 109 ESC-033-02-Fluid Systems Analysis ... T. Jewell- BU 109 GEQ-050-01-EnvirQnmental Geology-P. Ryberg- .BU 204 HST.044.01·Modern Europe: 1715·1945 .. S. Berk •SS 016 HST-118-01-America.n Enteryrige Abroad- J. Finkelgtein .. SS 110 MER·030-61·Dynanncs Of Lmear Systems· R. G1llltur .. N 210 MTH-030-01-0rdin Differential Equations- A. Seiken- BH 108 MTH-040-01-Applied Linear Algebra- T. Bick,- BH 207 MTH- 1404)1-Linear Algebra - J. Bar bane!- BH 205 PHI.r07l.Ol-His & Philo Of Science II- J. Ludwig- HU 119 PHY -011-03-Intro To Physics I- D. Peak -:SH 106 PHY -132-01-Electromagnetism II- W. F. Titus- BH 105 PSY -010-03-A First Course in Psychology- S, Benack- PY 102 PSY..031.-0l-A·b· n~rmal.~.s. ychology-.R. M .. Bagby-PY113 SPN·OlO·Ol·Bastc Spamsh.J ·c. Qua~tere -lfi~lF SPN-133-01-Mastermg Written Sparush- R. Vmtck ... HU 110 Wednesday, M~rch 18- 2;0();.4:00 P.M. BI0-016-01-Introduction to Biology I- P. Tobiessen .. SS 016 BID-066-01-Bex &Sexuality-F. Lambert- BH 207 CER-143-01-Foundations & Construction mG. Gifford- BU 104 CHM-162-01-Polymer Chemistry I- J: Anderson: N 116 . EC0-012-01-Introduction To Eeonormcs- B. LeWIS- SS 112 EC0-031-02-:Microeconomie Analysis- B. Reynolds- SS012 ESc-olO\\'Mech~nic3 I . Sec. 1.:Y. K. Lee- BU 109 Sec. 2-P. Weiss- BU 300 Sec. 3-M. Mafi- BU 106 ESC-026..01- Thermo & Heat Transfer- J. Shane brook- N 222 FRN-010-01-Basic French I- F. Coppay- HU 116 . .· GER-010-0I-Basic German I .. Straif-Taylor\\ HU 110 HEB..Oll..01-Basic Hebrew II .. D. Heckleman .. HU 113 HST-050-01-Western Imperialilsm-E. Hansen- SS 104 LA T ·145-01-Cicero- R. Lenardon- HU 119 . PHL-133 .. 01-Nineteenth-C~ntury Philo_sophy- L .. Patrik- HU 117 PHY -011-01-Intro To PhysicS I -·G. Reich- SH 106 PSY -610-0l•A First Course in Psyc:Qology- R. M. Bagby .. PY 113 SPN-011-01-Basic Spanish II -R. Vinick- HU 112 Thursday, March 19-9:00-11:00 A.M. BI0-062-01-World Agriculture - C. George & P. Tobiessen- SS 104 CHM-610-Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1-R. Schaefer-BH207 ·. Sec. 2-C. Weick-BH207 CHM-012-Fundamental Chemistry II- Sec. 1-D. I-Jayes- HY- 019 Sec. 2-D. Katahira- HU- 019 CHM-032-0rganic Chemistry II Sec.l-L.Hull-BU204 Sec. 2-J. Sowa- BU 204 ' ~ ~ 7Q ~ .... N 8 <! 8 '~ \\\' ·~ ·~ Yi I~ ~ \'!! i ~ ~ ..... ~ 'J

Endocrinology :B,litterstein::BH 2Q(. · . . . CHM:-154-01-~~Y§icalObemi~tn<tit • ~~ 4tttter~on ~ ·~1J-~Q4J '· . . . ~. · CLS-022-01-History Of Jitome; Th~-~epu~c:· J. Mar;mcola .. HU 019 CSC..Oll-01-Programmms For Social Sciences- J. Castleberry- N 014 ECD-029-01-Modeling & Sun Of Econ Policy- H. Fried- SS 112 ~CQ-031-()1-Microe.conomic Analysis- R. Reynolda- SS 103 EER-141J.;01-Digital Circuits-E. Hassib- N 116 EGL-020..01-MaJor:Engl!shAuthors II- J. Sk~rl• HU 117 . EGL-020-02-MaJor English Authors II- J. McCord- HU 112 EGL-056-0bShakespeare After 1600- H. Fr:ewtd- HU 11* EGL-071-0l·Irish Renaissance Literature- A. Frazier- HU 116 ESC-0. 22-Scienc~.OfEngin Materials Sec. l-F. Milillo- BU 300 Sec. 2-L. Pete'rson • BH201 ESC-026-02- Thetmo & .. Heat T. ran.sfer- P. Ranga. nathan- N 210 ESC4l33..03-FluidSystems Analysis- J. Sbanebrook- N 222 GER-133..01-Mastering Written German-S. Kellenter- HU 110 HST-057..01-Modem Jewish History- S. Berk- SS 104 .· HST-069..()1-Modem Chinese History -D. Thurston..; SS 014 MTH-618-0l·lntro Logjc & Set Theory· w. Zwicker· BH 205 MTH-136-ol-Real Variable Theory I- A. Taylor- BU 102 MTH-148-01-Advanced Calculus II- L. Tatevossian- BH 105 PHt-020-01-Classic::U Logic-s. Kaminsky- tiD 115 · PHY ..05Z..Ol-Classical Mechanics- S. Maleki- SH 106 PSC-076..01-Legislative Observers- C. Wilco~- SS 105 PSY -D24-01-8ocial Psychology- K. DeBono -PY 113 · PSY ..038-01-Developmen~l Psychology- L. Stanhope- PY 113 PSY -06.2-ol-Human Relations I- J. Girdner- PY 204 SOC.024-01-8ocial Psychology- K. DeBono- l?Y 113 SOC-136·01-Wealth And Poverty In America- J. Grigsby- SS110 Tuesday, March 17- 2;004:00 P.M. ANT -o12-o1-Prehistory: Ori~ of Man & Soc- M. Dawson- SS 010 ' BI()-()18-01-Introduction To Biology II .. M. Frohlich & G. Butterstein - SS 0161 BIQ..l44-01-CYtology ·G. Smith· N 016 · CER-12&-01-Structures J- M. Mafi • .BU109 CER-153··01-Environmental Engineering II- P. Snow- Bu 106 · CHM-142;.c}l-Cbemica1 Instrumentation:.. T. Werner- N 014 ECQ-012-62-Introduction To Economics- D. Klein- SS 012 · EC~o-o1-Labor Economics- P. Prosper-SS 112 ECQ-042...()1-Macroeconomic Theory & Policy- H. Fried- BH 201 EGL-040-01-Literature Of The Bible- H. Freund .. HU 115 ELL-012--01-Homes, Bldgs, & Egr Principles- H. G. Harlow- BU 300 ESC-020-01-Mechanics II-F. Panlilio- N 210 GER;.c)ll-ol-Basic Gernt~n II· S. K~ll~nter- HU 116 HST..Ol2..01-Prehistory: Origins Of Man & Soc· M. Dawson -SS 010 HST-051...01-Bismarck TO· Hitler· E. Hansen ··SS 104 LAT -011..01-Principles of Latin II~ J\. Marincola- HU 119 MTH-028-02-Probability- J. Coffey- BU203 MTH-127..01-Nwnerical Analysis- G. Ledder- ·sH 102 PHL-038-01-Eaatern Philosophy- L. Patrik- HU 112 PHY -011-02-Intro To Physics I- R. Magahiz ~ SH 106 PHY -047..01-8cience & Technical.Photogr:aphy- C. Jon~s- BU 104 PSC-011..01-Contemporary Amencan Politics· W. Damels • SS 014 PSC-047;.c}l-Law & Public Policy- J. Board- SS 103 PSY -010-02-A First Course In Psychology- L. Stanhope- PY 102 PSY -020-01-8tatistica1Methods In Psychology- S. Greenberg- PY 213 PSY -046-01-lntro To Pscyhobiology- B. Markiewicz- PY 113 SOc-610-01-Intro To Sociology- J. Grigsby- HU 019 SOC-163..01-Hist Of SociolOgical Thought-S. Lyng- HU 114 Tuesday, March 1'1- 4: 3o-6: 30 P.M. ESC-013-Sec. 1 & 2-High Level Lang Programming· L. Spallholz- BH 207 :t .. : . , . Sec. 2-C. Weick- BH 207 CHM-012-Fundamental Chemistry II- Sec. 1-D. I-Jayes- HY- 019 Sec. 2-D. Katahira- HU- 019 CHM-032-0rganic Chemistry II Sec.l-L.Hull-BU204 Sec. 2-J. Sowa- BU 204 . ESC;.()31-Electrical Circuits & Devices I Sec. 1-J. Mallick- BH 201 Sec. 2-L. Hollander-N 116 GRK-131-1 ~Herodotus & Thucydides- J. Marincola- HU 113 MTH-020-Math Methods for Soc. Sci. I Sec.l-J. Hefferon-BH102 Sec. 2-A. Taylor- BH 104 Sec .. 3-W. Fairchild-BH 106 Thursday, March 19- 2:·00..4:00 p·,M. ACC•Ol0-01-Financial Accounting I a R. HUrley· BH 207 . CSC-040-01-Machine ~.Assembly L:\t;tguage- F. Federight- N 014 ECQ-012--4-IntroductiOn To EconoiDlcs- T. Kershner- SS 014 EC0-144-017\Internati~nal Econor_nics·- E. D._ l?haup-SS 104 EC0-145-01-Managenal Econonucs- D. Kle1n- HU liO 1 EGL-073-01-Realism & NaturaUsm inAln Lit- W. Hathaway .. HU 116 -MTH-Q28-01-Pr.obability .. J. Hefferon- ~H 106 PHL-045-01-Philosophy of Art· L. Patr1k ... HU 019 . PHI.r032B-Ol-Modern Philo: Leibniz-Kant- J. Ludwig .. HU 119 PSC-055-01-International Security .Mfairs ·C. Brown- ss. 112 , PSC-oo4-01-Congressional Politics· C. Wilcox- ss 010 · PSC-085..01-Comp Systems:· Communist Country- V. Stanoveic- SS 012 · PSY -030..01-Personality- D. Sp,ring- PY 213 PSY -132-01-seminar In Socia~. P$ychology- K. DeBono- PY 204 · SOC-085..01-Comp Systems: Communist Country .. V. Stanovcic- SS 012 STA·llG-01-Intro Statistical Methods I .. J. Schmee- BH 312 .. , . .. . Friday,March20·9:00..ll:OOA.M. EC0-053..01-The Economy of China- B. Reynolds- SS 103 ESOOll-ol-Engineering Graphics- G. Gifford- BU 104 .PHL-017-0l.Sex And Society- R. Baker- HU 114 PSC-020-01-Social Data Analysis- P. F. Hartwig- .SS 112 RUS-011-01-Basic Russian II- N. Jemakoff --HU 116 SOC-062..01-Bocial Data Analysis- P. F. Hartwig- SS 112 . Friday, March 20 .. 2:00-4:00 P.M. ARS-o'll-ol-Medieval Art & Architecture- C. DeVegvar- AR 215 CSG-118..01-Logical Dsgn of Digital Coinp M C. Traver- N 016 EER -118..01-Logical Dsgn of Digital Comp .. C. Traver- N 016 EER-144- Communication Systems I · Sec. 1-M. Rukdko- BH 207 Sec. 2-M. Rudko- BH 207 ESC..030-{ll-Mechanics of Deformable Solids- A. Burke- N 222 FRN-133-01-Mastering Written French- G. qoppay- HU.llO · . LLR..051·01-Nuclear Weapons & Arms Control- W. Martm ... BU 106 PHL-144-0lPolitical Philosophy- R. Baker- HU 114 PHY -013:-Intro To Physics II · . Sec. 1-L. Baksay -N 012 ' Sec. 2-J. Newman-BU204 Sec. 3-J. Newman-BU204 Sec. 4-K. Schick- SH 106 The following courses have common exams with the evening division: Monday,March 16-4:30-6:30 P.M. CSC-135-01 & 51· Operating Systems- G. Williams- HU 114. CSC-140-01 & 51 Theory of Computing- D. Hannay- HU 115 \ 8 ~ 0 ~ ·~ \\\\ ~ ··~ S'-i ~ ~ .~ ~ ~ .'-e. ~ .... ~ 'l ;= ~ - w

Pa~e 14 CONCORDIENSJS, February 5, 1987 'I9{C£ 119{JO:J\[ COLL f£(jf£ 'E'J{Sf£9vltJ3L '£ r1 . !49£V .J • IJ'f{t£ s C9£9LL.fZI9v[o9-.[rr CWI9f/J . . . 'E91[S'E/M13L'E fl J Wi(( Perfonn Jl Concert · On Wecfnesc£ay, !february 12 at 8:00P.M. In rrlie Memoria{ Cliape{ · JlffD9.1ISS IO:A( IS !Pl{'E/E .f49\£tJJ YlLL Jil2{.~ MLCOM'E rari.ent~nn' s · • C!Ueanert~ & 'CltaHors ~tb. · 171.C UNION SlAEET (518) 374 .. 6647 . ..,... . · ol SJ?Kializiog in , .. \0 JO t,'i . SuecJe;&LeatberCieaning. . • c,P.tl ·. _ Shirts & Blouses Laundered ,,.s'l- . 0 ut'1~ Zippers Replaced- Jeans Shortened . o\~r; Charge Accounts Welcome ·THE GRADUATE AND . PROFESSIONAL SCHOOL FINANCIAL AID SERVICES ~GAPSFAS) APPLICATIONS FOR 1987- · · 88 IS NOW IN AT THE ;FINANCIAL AID . . OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR, BECKER HALL .. ·GRADUATING SENIORS :GOING ON TO GRADUATE SCHOOL • AND PLANNING TO APPLY FOR FINANCIAL AID SHOULD PICKUP . THE FORM AS SOON AS • POSSIBLE. · CIRCLE K ANNUAL VALENTINE'S. DAY FLOWER SALE c£> . . . . . . - . ~SPEAKIN . Student Activ,ities Van is now available . · (Fifty Mile Radius) . COMPETITION 7:3·0 West College Be There! . For more informction check in Student Activities Office or call 6129 BRIGHTEN UP SOMEONES DAY SEND A CANDYGRAM ON VALENTINES The 1987 Pledge class of Delta Gamma will be selling candygrams at OLD· CHAPEL and WEST during lunch and dinner hours. . . · TUES., FEBw 10 .. FRI., FEB.l3 Help support .sight conservation· ana Aid to the- . blind Monday, Feb. 9 - Friday, Fel». 13 Flowers Sold At Lunch .··/~ .. \\\. ••• nd It's,, . Your '/urn For a Coot/ · and Dinner at West College and Old Chapel Roses: $2.50 ea. $25a dozen Carnations: $1.50 ea. $13a dozen SUPER DANCE FOR MUSCULAR DYSt.ROPHY IS COMING! FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27TH 10:00 p.111 .. to 2:00a.m. Call381·4293 or 370-6118 for info. Sare, New strategies, a sharper readiness and a renewed commitment to quality dis- tinguish today's Caring Team at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey. We're playing in a competitive arena: and we're scouting a highly-motivated backup team to provide- administrative support on a PART- TIME basis. Immediate openings in our Fiorham Park offtces near livingston Mall await youf sharp math skills, attention to detail, typ1ng and clerical proficiency and excellent communication and interpersonal skills. Join the Caring Team that leads the field in health care insurance and enjoy: · • Quick CASH! (weekly p«Jy periods) R Flexible Part-Time Hours • Steady Work Schedule 8 Valuable· Basiness Experience · • A Stimulating Professioqal Environment . • Eligible fol' health benefit coverage alter one year of seroice Brin!iJ us your enthusiasm and commitment to .excellence and we'll provide the traimng and highly competitive salary. This could be your ~st chance to (tis- cover wMre your future shOuld bel Please call weekdays between 9A.M. and 5P.M. • 593-7461, 7458,.7459 or 7462 or send resume and cover letter to: EMPLOYMENT, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey, Inc., 15 Vreeland Road, Florham Park, New Jersey 07932. , Blue Cross and BJueShield . of New JerSey carry the caring card An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F /HIV 'I ' .I j ., .I J I I ··l :;, ' 'I ~~ ·'' ·' I i• ~ / 'k j~ :i ! ,i 'I i! ;I I ; lt '. I I

Pag'-' 14 CONCORDlENS/S, February5, 1987 'I:J{f£ 1.PJ\{]O:A[ COLL f£{jf£ 'E?{Sf£M'BLf£ r1 :4:1\['lJ ~ • rT:J{f£ S C:Ji5tlLYi% O!J{'T WI:J./P 'E!J{S'E%'13L'E fl J 'Wi{( Peiform 5t Concert On Wednesday, :February 12 at 8:00 P.M. In %e !Memoria{ Cliape{ .fll'DMISS I 09\L IS :f'l\_'E/E .9'8{V .9/LL .!ll!l('E rwE£COM'E <m· ' wtent.nnn s Cflleaners & tUailors1flt~. 17UUNION$1AEET A (518) 374-6647 o/ Speci·alizing in 'Q fO \'( Suede & Leather Cleaning • c.~tL\- Shirts & Blouses Laundered c..~\\ ou\1~ Zippers Replaced e Jeans Shortened o\~~ Clu11rge Accounts Welcome THE GRADUATE AND PROFESSIONAL SCHOOL FINANCIAL AID SERVICES CGAPSFAS} APPLICATIONS FOR 1987- 88 IS NOW IN AT THE FINANCIAL AID OFFICE, 2ND FLOOR, BECKER HALL. GRADUATING SENIORS GOING ON TO GRADUATE SCHOOL AND PLANNING TO APPLY FOR FINANCIAL AID SHOULD PICKUP THE FORM AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. s:PEAKING COMPETITI'O:N. Student Activities 'Y:an is now ·available 7:30 West College Be There! ( Fifty Mile Radius) Fer more informatiam check in Student Activili~es Office or call 6129 BRIGHTEN UP SOMEONES DAY SEND A CANDYGRAM ON VALENTJNES The 1987 Pledge class of Delta Gamma will be selling candygrams at OLD CHAPEL and WEST during lunch and dinner hours .. TUES., FEB. 10 - FRI .. , FEB.13 Help support sight conservation and Aid to the blind CIRCLE K ANNUAL VALENTINE'S DAY FLOWER SALE w 0 Monday, Feb. 9 · .. ·~y !I\\'\ ••• And It's·. Friday, Feb. 13 Flowers Sold At Lunch and Dinner at West College and Old Chapel Roses: $2.50 ea. $25 a dozen Carnations: $1.50 ea. · $13 a dozen SUPERDANCE FOR MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY IS COMINGI FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27TH 10:00 p.m. to 2:00a.m. Call 381-4293 or 370-6118 for info. Your rurn For a Cood Sare. New strategies, a sharper readiness and a rer:tewed commitment to quali:t)¥ dis- tinguish today's Caring Team at Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey. We're playing in a compe1itive arena; and we're scouting a highly-mot!i'lfa1ed backup team to provide administrative support on a PART-TIME basis. Immediate openings in our Florham Park offices near Livingston Mall a'Nait youf sharp math skills, attention to de•tail, typing and clerical proficie11cy- and excellent communication and interpersor:~al skills_ Join the Caring T&arm that leads the field in health care insurance and enjoy: • Quick CASH! (weekly pay periods) • Flexible Part· Time Hours • Steady Work Schedule • Valuable Business Experience • A Stimulating Professional Environment • Eligible for hetilth benefit coverage after one year of st~Jrvice Brin~ us your enthusiasm and commitment to excellence and we'll prOV\i<le the traimng and highly competitive salary. This could be your best chance tCJ dis- cover where your future should bel Please call weekdays between 9A.M. and 5 P.M.· 593-7461, 7458, 7459·1:lr 7462 or send resume and cover letter to: EMPLOYMENT, Blue Cross and Bluet Stlield of New Jersey, Inc., 15 Vreeland Road, Florham Park, New Jersey 0793:2. Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Jersey carry the cari.ng .csld An Equal 0J)portunity Employer M/F/H/V til .~ c ro .!:: u OJ ~ :::l 0. 0 a.. - 0 > Ill Q) +- 1... ::> 0 u

'I i\ ~~ f \' .~ c: I!J .r::, u Ql ~ !- 10 ;:) c. 0 a. .... 0 >- Ill OJ +- !- :::1 0 u CONCORDTEN.SJS, February5, 1987 · Page l5 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY RADAR DETECTOR PERFORMANCE RANKING X•BAND K·BAND OVERALL ESC_ORT IJNIDEN' ESCORT GUl. t w ESCORT ($245) z. GUt G-835 (5260) GUL WHISTLER BEL K·40 I. BEL MICAO.EYE XKR·l:R .(5300) 4. UNIDEN RD~ss .($190) BEL PASSPORT I~ WHISTLER SPECTRUM ($270) COBRA l:INIOEN 6. K•<40 XK SUPERHET ($300} .'SNOOPER WHISTLER 7. PASSPORT ($295) ' .- PAS $PORT COBRA I. SNOOPER D-4000($149) K-40 FUZZBUSl'EA FUZZBUSTER SNOOPER 9. COBRA TRAPSHOOTER R0·3110 .($~60) 1 0. FUZZ8\:.ISTER SUPERHET ($200) e FOX. t=ax I t • SLPER Fa< VIXEN .I ($230) _ Soy G~odb-ye To_ W.inter By DONLAFAYET ? Plan fo!:tl)el~tu(f\' .. ~ese are nard words to 'U.w by when the c~ondltions outside would ~umble anv Siberian tourist ·~attraction.'' I meim, Winter ~enn at Union would provide an excellent setting to test the ~~ciological effects of Ice Age conditions on the people in the community. Ifwe are to survive ~~t another winter in Schenectady w.e must plan ahead. To put it another way, action now will reap fruitful rewards in time for the spring. What r ~ ~bout to propose is a {!iimple, yet incredible, exercise workout and diet that, if executed correctly, will make Mary Lou Retton's body resemble that of an overweight Gumby. The key to the success pf this program is WILLPOWER. Of course, I realize that this eliminates half of you readers already, .But then again, half is better than none~ . Let's start with the diet part. None of this Day 1, Day 2 crap With all t~ calorie counting. Stuff like that just doesn't work in a society that is founded. on gluttony. For breakfast, you nave a choice of: cereal, toast, an egg or two, pancakes, etc~ The key here is to make sure you eat breakfast~ There's no trick here; breakfast is an essential meal. However, try to stay away from foods like evaporated milk and bamooo shoots. Lunch is the toughest meal of the day because school -food, fraternity food, and apart· ment food\ (which is usually .. McOonald's) IS, to put it plainly, revolting.. High-fat, high• cholesterol, non·nutritio\18 sums it up, Tberef()re, for lun~b, our only' . dtiJective . is to nu~ke . it through, the afternoon without vomiting, nausea, or ptomaine poisoning. _ . On the other hand, dinner, with a little special attention, can be a delightful me.al. Unfortunately, the real wi)rld isn't quite so thoughtful. If you have ·- any control over your diiiner mel,lU opt for chicken, turkey, and fish at least once a week. Fried· foods-will kill you- baked potatoes, rice, spaghetti. and vegetables are e:s:cellEmt side dishes. The last paft of this diet is the simplest. yet it is the hard~st to follow. Don't eat after: dinner. Simple, right? LQok, who's 'kidding who 1 We;;.~llmllll~Jil ,~ this will be the fifsf\ti.fi€ ;iiriH@'::~ diet to be broken. Thus for your late-night eating, ·eat fruit- apples, oranges, bananas; kiwi; mangos, papaya, et al. Don't try faking any Big Mac attacks; -you're only fooling yourself. So far, so g9od. The workout part is easy •. AU it consiSts -Df is 5-'l..hours a week ()f any tyPe of exercise you prefer. · Running, swimming, weightlifting,. ice · fishing, .and the luge are am,ong the plethora of -possibilities. Whatever y-Qu choose, tbollgh, somehow W()rk in a ten-minute · abdomiilal routine. Who wants to be sporting. a big, fat belly all week? That'~ it; not a bad program, huh? Remember, the key word is willpower. Good luck. .Radar DeteCtors By JOHN BERGERON Next time you are cruising up the Northway to go skiing or heading home, you .may regret not having received a radar detector for Christmas. Eight out of ten drivers regularly break the speed limit, and 'if you are one of the guilty, it is probably only a matter -of time before the friendly man in blue pulls you over. . Since the creation of police radar guns, about 17 years ago, they have been increasing greatly in number~ Beginning in 1981, the FCC has allowed police departments to use radar under their department's 2\'way radio 'licences. The FCC haS assigned . two frequencies,. x;·band and k- band; to police officers. The k· ... band type_of- tadar'i& the more . recent of the two: It is used like a gun; it cannot be detected by the motorist until it is aimed at him. Police .radar sends a radio signal on either frequency, receives a reflected .signal of a car, and then calculates the car's speed by measuring the frequency shift in the .reflected signal. To make a correct reading of the driver-'s speed, the gun must be abned almost parallel-to the car's direction of ·travel. The .speeder's best friend, the radar ·detector, is basically a radio receiver designed to pick liP the two frequencies broadcast by the radar gun. The Com· munications Act of 1934 .says that radio receivers should not be controlled and it is because the radar detector is a type of radio that it has not been outlawed. each other will not increase your chances of picking u_p tb.e radar gun's signal, but will ollly worsen the reception. Radar guns bave often be~ critized as being inaccurate sincetheDade CoWity, Florida_, hearhigs in 1979, in whic.b houses and trees were clocked at 40 miles an hour. There ar-e no required specifications f()t the radar guns that poliee departments use. Police departments may buy any radar guns they Wish, althoufth the National Bureau of Stan• dards has established standards which are merely suggestio~; A.prtiblem for both the police \' not requirei:{lents. Many states and motorists is tb.at other require officers who use radar devices use the same to complete a training cowse frequencies as the radar gun. but there are many that do n()t. Garage door openers, burglar - ... - Altho~gh rad~r detetiors. are alarms, as well as other radal' :.·~only illegal m Connecticut, detectors 'get picked up by the Virgini!l and the District of radar detector and. gun,. Most Co!umbia, radar ~ammers, detectors have a c•ty·highway which send out false Slgllals that switch which reduces its sen- block the radar gun, are illegal sitivity in prob1em ·areas; · · ev~rywher~ because they are a Trymg to beat the interference deliberate mterference to other problem of other detectors by signals. using two detectors next to GIVE BLOOD; PI.IASE + = The Biology Department and Biology Club present \THE ECOLOGY OF BARRIER ISLANDS\ Tuesday, February 10,. 1987 4:30p.m·. Roo.m 55104 PAULGODFRY University of Massachusetts Refreshments- Host P. Tobiessen 4:15p.m.- Room SS104 ••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • • • • '0 • • • • • • • • • -· • • • • • • • *SUPERDANCE• FOR MUSCULAR DYSTBOPHY..,·.~, . ,, .. ~ ~. IS COMING II! FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27th 10:00 p.m. - 2:00 a.m. call 881·4283 or 37D-8118 for info. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••••••••••••••••••••••

Ill u ·c: ro .c u Q) ~ \\' ro :::> 0. 0 a.. - 0 > <ll Cll ..... '- :::> 0 u CONCORDIENSIS. February 5, 1987 Pagl' 15 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY RADAR DETECTOR PERFORMANCE RANKING X-BAND K·BAND OVERALL ESCORT ESCORT t. ESCORT ($245) LJNIDEN GUL 2. GU1.. G-33S ($260) GUl. BEL •• 88. MICRO-EYE XKA-LR ($300) WHISTLER 1<·40 4. UNIDEN RD·55 ($ 190) BEL PASSPORT s. WHISTLER SPECTRUM ($270) COBRA UNIDEN ... K-40 XK SUPERHET ($300) SNOOPER WHISTLER 7. PASSPORT ($295) PASSPORT COBRA •• SNOOPER 0•4000 ($149) K-40 FUZZBUSTER '· COBRA TRAPSHOOTER A0-3110 ($160) FUZZBUSTER SNOOPER 10. FUZZBUSTER SUPERHET ($200) FOX Fa< u. SUPER Fa< VIXEN I ($230) Sa.y Goodbye To Winter By DON LAFAYET Plan for the future. These are hard words to live by when the conditions outside would hwnble anv Siberian tourist \attraction.\ I mean, winter tenn at Union would provide an excellent setting to test the $ociological effects of Ice Age conditions on the people in the conununity. If we are to survive yet another winter in Schenectady we must plan ahead. To put it another way, action now will reap fruitful rewards in time for the spring. What I am about to propose is a simple, yet incredible, exercise workout and diet that, if executed correctly, will make Mary Lou Retton's bodr resemble that of an overweigh Gumby. The key to the success 9f this program is WILLPOWER. Of course, I realize that this eliminates half of you readers already. But then again, half is better than none. Let's start with the diet part. None of this Day 1, Day 2 crap with all this calorie counting. Stuff like that just doesn't work in a society that is founded on gluttony. For breakfast, you have a choice of: cereal, toast, an egg or two, pancakes, etc. The key here is to make sure you eat breakfast. There's no trick here; breakfast is an essential meal. However, try to stay away from foods like evaporated milk and bamboo shoots. Lunch is the toughest meal of the day because school food, fraternity food, and apart- ment food\ (which is usually McDonald's) is, to put it plainly, revolting. High-fat, high- cholesterol, non-nutritious sums it up. Therefore, for lunch, our only objective is to make it through the afternoon without vomiting, nausea, or ptomaine poisoning. On the other hand, dinner, with a little special attention, can be a delightful meal. Unfortunately, the real world isn't quite so thoughtful. If you have any control over your dinner menu opt for chicken, turkey, and fish at least once a week. Fried foods will kill you- baked potatoes, rice, spaghetti and vegetables are excellent side dishes. The last pa_rt of this diet is the simplest yet it is the hardest to follow. Don't eat after dinner. Simple, right? Look, who's kidding who? We all know that . this will be the first rule in the diet to be broken. Thus for your late-night eating, eat fruit- apples, oranges, bananas, kiwi, mangos, papaya, et al. Don't try faking any Big Mac attacks; you're only fooling yourself. So far, so good. The workout part is easy. All it consists of is 5-'Z.,hours a week of any type of exercise you prefer. Running, swinuning, weightlifting, ice fishing, and the luge are among the plethora of possibilities. Whatever you choose, though, somehow work in a ten-minute abdominal routine. Who wants to be sporting a big, fat belly all week? That's it; not a bad program, huh? Remember, the key word is wlllpower. Good luck. Radar Detectors By JOHN BERGERON Next time you are cruising up the Northway to go skiing or heading home, you may regret not having received. a radar detector for Christmas. Eight out of ten drivers regularly break the speed limit, and if you are one .of the guilty, it is probably only a matter of time before the friendly m.an in blue pulls you over. Since the creation of police radar guns. about 17 years ago, they have been increasing greatly in number. Beginning in 1981, the FCC has allewed police departments to use radar under their department's 2-way radio licences. The FCC has assigned two frequencies, :x;-band and k- band, to police officers. The k- band type of radar is. the more recent of the two. It is llSed like a gun; it cannot be detected by the motorist until it is aimed at him. Police radar sends a radio signal on either frequency, receives a reflected signal of a car, and then calculates the car's speed by measuring the frequency slilit in the reflected signal. To make a correct reading of the driver's speed, the gun must be alrned almost parallel to the car's direction of travel. The speeder's best friend, the radar detector, is basically a radio receiver designed to piek up the two frequencies br0oadcast by the radar gun. The Com· munications Act of 1934 says that radio receivers should not be controlled a11d it is because the radar detector is a type of radio that it has not been outlawed. A problem for both the police and motorists is that other devices use tbe same frequencies as the radar gun. Garage door openers, burgla!' alarms, as well as other radar detectors get piclt-ed up by the radar detector and gWl. Most detectors have a city-highway switch which veduces its sen· sitivity in problem areas. Trying to beat the interference problem of other detectors by using two dete~tors next to each other will not increase yeur chances <1f picking up the radar gUll's signal, but will only worsen tlle reception. Radar guns ha~e often been critized as being inaccurate since the Dade County, Florida, hearings in 1979, in which houses md trees were clocked at 40 miles an hour. There are no requiFed specifications for the radar guns that police departments use. Police departments may buy any radar guns they wish, although the Nathonal Bureau of Stan- dards has established standards which are merely suggestions, not requJr-ements. Many states require ()f£icers who use radar to comp.lete a training course but there are many that do not. .. Although radar detectors are only ill et5al in Connecticut, Virginia and the District of Columbia, radar jammers, which sen.d out false s1gnals that block thE radar gun, are illegal everywllere because they are a delibera1e interference to other signals. GIVE BLOOCI; PJ.EASE + ~ The Biology Departme11t and Biology Club present 11 THE ECOLOGY OF BARRIER ISLANDS\ Tuesday, February 10, 1987 4:30p.m. Room SS104 PAULGODFRY University of Massachusetts Refreshrnents- Host P. Tobiessen 4:15p.m.· Room 55104 ........................ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • *SUPERDANCE• FOR MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY IS COMING Ill FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27th 10:00 p.m. - 2:00 a.m. call 381-4293 or 370-6118 fof ilfo. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •

Page- 16 CONCORDIENSJS, February5, 1987 '- -. .. \ . . - . THE ARTS On Campus • • • ·New Professor Interested in Expanding· A~t:S Department ByUZA LEIDN~R One of the most intriguing departments is often overlooked by the average Union student. I am referring to the Arts Department. Many students have never stepped foot inside the galleries, let alone taken a course in the Arts. I was not unique, untn early Tuesday morning I was one of those students. When I was asked to write an article on a new arts professor, I was quite nervous. What could a layman like me say about such a professor? Spee1king to Walter Hatke, the ne.w arts professor, eased my apprehension. He sensed my uneasiness and began to speak about the basics: What is ART? Professor Hatke referred to the catch phrase ''matters of the spirit\ when describing his view of art. He explained that there was no real reason to create art except for some aim that was beyond oneself; it is an end in itself. Defining himself as a \figuratve realist\ · he iS interested in the metaphorical layering of an image and presenting the different levels of a particular ima~e. For example, in one of his land· scapes, he painted a telephone pole that when viewed more closely, is said to resemble a Russian crucifix. His work attempts to depict the world ar()und him in order to be more easily understood and ac- cessible to most people. Often referred to as a naturalist or a realist, Professor Hatke says that many of his works have classical as well as romatic elements. These overlapping figurative components come together in his work to give it broader base. You can often put yotll'self into one of his paintings and feel as if you had just walked into the room and now . are a part of his images. When asked why he decided to join the faculty at Union, Professor Hatke had m811y reasons. Previously teaching at Depauw University and the University of Iowa as well as Penn State UJ~iversity, he is used to teaching in a large university setting. Professor Hatke at- tendeda college inthemid .. west · which b.e said was' quite like UniDn and. that a student receives a far better education at a small liberal arts college. He feels that a small liberal arts college is better eqUipped than a larger university to edueate artists because each student has m()re responsibility. 'The work ethic as well as the sense of ambition that Union. instills in its students are good traits in an artist. In addition, Professor Hatke finds Union very exciting as a teacher because be is ; . interested in expanding its arts : department. He appreciates the way in which the department is set up with all forms of arts in one building but each retaining some of its individualism. He finds Union College set in the Shaker history of upstate NY to be a fascinating place to study art. Itslandscapes prDvide him with the romantic interest for his works. · Pre~ntly, Professor Hatke has an exhibition at the Williams College Museum of Art in Williamstown, MA, throllgli the end of February. He has a future exhibition planned for December Qf this year at the National Academy of Design in New YorkCity entitled \Realism Today.\ In addition, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City has acquired one of his paintings entitled \Summer Music\. This pain- ting depicts a young woman seated before a piano, balan- cing a violin on her knee. lt is summertime, and the tree just outside the window is laden with ripe fruit. Light plays an irn~ portant role in this as well. as his other works. In conclusion, Professor Hatke reminded me that \art doesn't grow out of vacuum.\ It stems from various sources, a self realization of a sort from closely observing the world around. The Gate's Light, 1986, oil on canvas, 63\ >< 49'', by Walter Hatke a.t Rober Schoelkopf Gallery Ltd. First In N~ew ... Art Series: Student of the Week ByMEL¥SASTEWART What's so important about Bruce Osler? W-ell, besides being a junior majo:ring in Electrical Engineering~om­ puter Science, a Phi Delta Theta brother, a member of the chorus, and manager of the Dutch Pipers, he has been selected as the first \Art Student of the Week.\ This week Concordleil&is is begin- ning-a new column .in which the achievements of students in- volved in Arts-related areas will be higtuighted. It is hoped that through this column, students will become more aware of and interested in the· many diverse opportunities that this depart~ ment offers to aU students; not just those majoring in the Arts. Despite the hea\1)' work load · that his major demands, he manages to find time to sing. It is an interest which he intends to pursue for tlie :r.e$t of his life. His interest began 'in the fourth grade and has continued to grow since that time. In high school, he was a member of the chorus and also played the trumpet in the jaz~ and concert bands. He also has some theatrical experience which he hopes to put to .use in his audition for \Godspell\. After graduation, he hopes to join a barber ,shop quartet, his favorite type of music. He also. hopes to receive some type of ' professional training. When asked,about his views of 1 Jlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 1111111111 lllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll :Bruce Os.ter P1'\e1ntere 'Art ;8tut£en.t J of The. Wee~~ J .~ J 11u ummnnmlmnunnnmnummlmmntmlunnmumumnnmummlmllilllmmmmnmnnmi mmul tile Arts Department, Bruce said that he thinks it is a shame tbat more people do not take advantage of all the op~ port un.itie s avail able. \Everyone has some kind of artistic ability, it's kind of self- . expression. I don't understand why more students don't get involved.\ He has noticed that it seems to be the same students. who support aU of the depart- ment's activities. He feels tbat because grades are stressed so much, many students take only tile art courses that they need to flllfill their liberal learning requirement. There are many very capable professors teaching Arts courses and more students should try to take advantage of them.xEven if a student does not take Arts classes, they can still become involved through activities such as choris and band. He says, \Sometimes I can be in a bad mood when I go to rehear~als, but by the tinle it's over, I feel great. I won't be able to do work for the next couple of hours because I'm so WOW1d up.\ It's really a lot of fun. We're all so close from working together.\ Bruce, congratulatins on being chosen as the first Art Student of the Week. Your h~d work and dedication have not gone unnoticed. Preview: German Film Series By CHRISTOPHER SEMENUK On February 9, Volker Schlondorff's, The Sudden Wealth of the Poor People of Kombach, will be shown as part of the continuing German fihn series organized by Professor Kellenter of the Modern Language Department. Schlondorff's Kombach is a historical story,set in. the 1820's, which uses a combination of song, naturalistic drama, and spoken narrative. The poor citizens of Kombach acquire some wealth by stealing tax payments from a mall coach. Later on when they spend the money, they are detected and suffer the consequences. The crime is investigated by a government who uncovers all· the criminals and has all but one of them executed. The surviving member is Jacob Geiz who was the \king pin\ ot the robberY and also of the entire story. He is a rebellious character who will not accept his social placement in society and the hardships whicli go along with it. The film is split into two main sections: the robbery and the investigation. The .factual narration by a woman's voice traces the robbery back to its beginning and explains how the robbery was an act .of desperation which the poor people resorted to in order escape the decrepit conditions of their social class. The· second seCtion is the investigation. The inspector is aware of the poor peoples' inferior social standing and cleverly takes advantage of it by sol.j.citing inf~rmation and promising rewards to the in- formers. Scb}.ondorff's film, produced in 1971, displ!lYS p1eces of German historical movements artd t.ime periodS which are not found in textbooks. Kombach · represents a· society held in a state of pr&revolutionary consciousness. It is pre- revolutionary because · tile citizens accept as natural all the established ·.hierarchies. The poor people in this movie act without foresight and political consciousness, as if others were in cbarge of their destinies. They lack the sophistication necessary to cover up for one another and are done in by their simplicity and their honesty. The film contains many quotations from German eultural history. The quotes are from ·popular selections of literature offering the peasants relief while simultaneously embedding m them the ideCJlogy ()f the ruling class. Schlondorff shows how these quaint songs, poems,-and stories are .actually part of an insidious mechanism that preserves the oppressive heirarchy. The Sudden Wealth of tbe Poor People of Kombach shows compassion and gives insight to people who are ready to rebel and fight .for their rights but lack the heart and strong desire to carry their beliefs the entire distance. The film is in German with English subtitles and will be shown on February 9 at 7:30 p.m. in SS 016. All ~e en- couraged to attend this en- joyable selection from the German cinema which · will provide provocative political questions and statements concerning our past; prese:llt, and future. - t• ~In\~ fA\ lo) Q[ftlt1 ~woo~oo[}6~ (}~ .. BETTER THAN EVER IN THE PUB II 8:0'0 & 10:0.0 TICKETS: St50 -~~ - .· .. ,.Lt .. 'II'C, 1 - 1 1 1 a _.. . 5 . I p. I . ti. . ' _I · E I iB I ) lfit~J~~ ~ALCOHOL WILL, JJE AVAILA,JS'LE AT LATE . I . 4-H. · .a·· ' 1 ~ M·. · ·u· . s. T· BE atll'\ (~ t! w. ·. . . ..• . . \: • mwl, WITH I.D. wufl, ..... ~ . . ....... .... ' ~ : ll fj :J ' ,( r 1 .. ,• lr I ~ } ., t: I ~ f \ ! ! ! I I 1 :I ·:~ . ~ ! '

Pagt> 16 CONCORDIENS/S, February 5, 1987 .THEAR'TS On Campus • • • New Professor lnterested in Exp,a,n.ding Arts Department By LLZA LEIDNER One of t:he mast intriguing departme11ts is often overlooked by the aver<tge Union student. I am refnring to the Arts Department. Many students have never stepped foot inside the galleries, let alone taken a course in tlle Arts. I was not unique, Ulltil early Tuesday morning I was one of those students. \V!Jen I was asked to write an <tr:iicle on a new arts professor~ I was quite nervous. What coul!l a layman like me say abou1 such a professor? Speaking to Walter Hatke, the new arts !)rofessor, eased my apprehension. He sensed my uneasiness and began to speak about the basics: What is ART? ProfeSS()t\ Hatke referred to the catch :phrase ''matters of the spirit\ when describing his view of art. He explained that there wa.8 no real reason to create art ex:cept for some aim that was be :yond oneself; it is an end in itself. Defining himself as a ''figmatve realist\ · he is interested ill the metaphorical layering ()f an image and presentinl! the different levels of a particular ima~e. For example, in one of h1s land- scapes, hE f)ainted a telephone pole that when viewed more closely, ~ said to resemble a Russian emcifix. His work. attempts to depict the world around him in order to be more easily 11nderstood and ac- cessible to most people. Often referred b as a naturalist or a realist, Professor Hatke says that ma11y of his works have classical as well as romatic elements. These overlapping figurative components come together irlllis work to give it broader lla~e. You can often put yourself illto one of his paintings and feel as if you had just walkt>d int() the room and now are a pari ()f his images. When a:;ked why he decided to join the faculty at Union, Profess()r Hatke had many reasons. Previously teaching .at Depauw University ami the University of Iowa as well as Penn State University, b.e is used to teaching in a large university setting. Professor Hatke at- tended a college in the mid-west which he ~id was quite like Union and that a student receives a .far better education at a small liberal arts college. He feels that a small liberal arts college is better- equipped than a larger university to educate artists because each student has more responsibility. The work ethic as well as the sense of ambition that Union instills in its studer1ts are good traits in an artist. In addition, Professor Hatke finds Union very exciting as a teacher because he is interested in ex:panding its arts department. He appreciates the way in which the department is set up with all forms of arts in one building but each retaining some of its individualism. He finds Union College set in the Shaker history of upstate NY to be a fascinating place to study art. Its landscapes provide him with the romantic interest for his works. Presently, Professor Hatke has an exhibition at the Williams C()llege Museum or Art in Williamstown, MA, through theendofFebruary. He has a future exhibition planned for December of this year at the National Academy of Design in New York City entitled \Realism ]'()day.\ In addition, the Metropolitan Musewn of Art in New York City has acquired one of his paintings entitled \Summer MllSic\. This pain· ting depicts a young woman seated bef()re a piano, balan- cing a violin on her knee. It is summertime, and the tree just outside tile window is laden with ripe fruit. Light plays an im- portant role in this as well as his other works. In cond usion, Professor Hatke reminded me that \art doesn't grow out of vacuum.\ It stems frorn various sources, a self realizati()IJ of a sort from closely cbser-ving the world around. The Gate's Light, 1986, oil ofl canvas, 63\ )( 4'?\ by Walter Hatke at Rober ScllOelkopf Gallery Ltd. First In New Art Series: Student of the Week By MEL.SSA STEWART What's so important about Bruce Osler? Well, besides being a junior majoring in Electrical Engineering-Com· puter Science, a Phi Delta Theta brother, a member of the chorus, and manager of the Dutch. Pipers, he has been selected as the first \Art Student of the Week.\ This week Concordtensis is begin· ning a new column in which the achievements of students in· volved in Arts-related areas will be highlighted. It is hoped that through this column, students will become more aware of and interested in the many diverse opportunities that this depart· ment offers to all students, not just those majoring in the Arts. Despite the heayy work load that his major demands, he manages to find time to sing. It is an interest which he intends to pursue for the rest of his life. His interest began in the fourth grade and has condnued to grow since that time. In high school, he was a member of the chorus and also played the trumpet in the jazz and concert bands. He also has some theatrical experience which he hopes to put to use in his audition for \Godspell\. After graduation, he hopes to join a barber shop quartet, his favorite type of music. He also hopes to receive some type of professional training. When asked about his views of 1 lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUI Bruce Osl:er Prerni.;er-e Art 8tud:ent J of The 1J ee'- fl J f.J J llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll,JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ill the Arts Department, Bruce said that he thinks it is a shame that more people do not take advantage of all the op- portunities av.ailable. \Everyone has some kind of artistic ability, it's kind of self- expression. I don't understand why more students don't get involved.\ He has noticed that it seems to be the same students who support all of the depart- ment's activities. He feels that because grades are stressed so much, many students take only the art courses that they need to fulfill their liberal learning requirement. There are many very capable professors teaching Arts courses and more stu!lents should try to take advantage of them.xEven if a stuient does not take Acts classes, they can still become inv(}lved through activities such as choris and band. He s21~s, \Sometimes I can be in a b21d mmd when I go to rehearsals, btrt by the time it's over, I feel grEat. I won't be able to do W()rk for the next couple of hoW's because I'm so wound up.\ It's re211ly a lot of fun. We're all so close from working togethEr-.\ B:ruce, congratulatins on being chosen as the first Art Student of the Week. Your bard W()r'it and dedication have not golke unnoticed. Preview: German Film Series By CHRISTOPHER SEMENUK On February 9, Volker Schlondorff's, The Sudden Wealth of the Poor People of Kombach, will be shown as part of the continuing German film series organized by Professor Kellenter of the Modern Language Department. Schlondorff' s Kombach is a historical story,set in the 1820's, which uses a combination of song, naturalistic drama, and spoken narrative. The poor citizens of Rombach acquire some wealth by stealing tax payments from a mail coach. Later on when they spend the money, they are detected and suffer the consequences. The crime is investigated by a government who uncovers all the criminals and has all but one of them executed. The surviving member is Jacob Geiz who was the \king pin\ ot the robbery and also of the entire story. He is a rebellious character who will not accept his social placement in society and the hardships which go along with it. The film is split into two main sections: the robbery and the investigation. The factual narration by a woman's voice traces the robbery back to its beginning and explains how the robbery was an act of desperation which the poor people resorted to in order escape the decrepit conditions of their social class. The second section is the investigation. The inspector is aware of the pcor peoples' inferior social standing and cleverly takes advantage of it by soliciting information and promising rewards to the in· formers. Schlondorff's film, produced in 1971, displays pieces of German historical movements and time periods which are not found in textbooks. Kombach represents a society held in a state of pre-revolutionary consciousness. It is pre- revolutionary because the citizens accept as natural all the established hierarchies. The poor people in this movie act without foresight and political consciousness, as if others were in charge of their destinies. They lack the sophistication necessary to cover up for one another and are done in by their simplicity and their honesty. The film contains many quotations from German cultural history. The quotes are from popular selections of literature offering the peasants relief while simultaneously embedding in them the ideology of the ruling class. Schlondorff shows how these quaint songs, poems, and stories are actually part of an insidious mechanism that preserves the oppressive heirarchy. 'rhe Sudden Wealth of the Poor People of Kombach si!Dws compassion and gives insight to pe()ple who are ready to rebel and fight for their rights but l11clt the heart and strong desire t() carry their beliefs the el'ltire distance. The film is in Gennan wit:h English subtitles and. will be 5hown on February 9 at 7 :30 p.m. in SS 016. All are en· co11raged to attend this en· jDy-able selection from the German cinema which will pl'()Vide provocative political qllestions and statements co11cerning our past, present, and future. tl ~ ~ ~ ~. \oJ GGi1111 ~~~~~~~~~ BETTER THAN EVER IN THE PUB II s:oo & ~o:oo TICKETS: $1.50 M~~ - I...IUL...I...& ep++p++S 1 i '!*! 88881 ~~·~ ALCOHOL WILL BE AVAILABLE .AT LAT'E t\~HOW. MUST BE ~ll IHilht' WITH J.D. mutr/, ~~~ ~-~ I 1.

CONCORDIENSIS, Febr11ary 5, PJ8 7 Page 17 lmprov -. P.a-rt.-ll .. t<a,bat & Korn By JOY CYBtJL On Friday, January 30, Julie Kabat and Mitchell Korn performed·in the second vatt -of Union's Winter · Im- provisation Series . of 1987. Tbe performance took place in the performing arts st1,1dio at 7:30, and there was an ex· tremely good . turnout of both _ students and Schenectady residents. Tbe series is an outcome .of Professor Hilary Tann's eXQ treme dedication to music. ''This is the third year that I've arranged the Improvisation Series at Union. I decided to have it rWl tlwougb the Winter tenn so that students coula have someplace to go on a cold Friday night ,right here on campus. The $etting is always · informa:l and many people sit on the floor. It's almost like a c: c: co ~ bending the saw, creating an eerie sound. Accompanying Julie was Mitchell Korn, who played a 12~ string guitar. \The extra swings · cause · a brighter, crisper soWld~\ The_ guitar can sound Uke a harp, or like two guitars ! .being played at once. The performance consisted of song, poetry, and music. The opening .number consisted of .Julie singing a song ef!titled, \I Wrote a· GoOd Omelet \ while - . ' accompanied by Mitchell on the guitar. Needless to ~Y, this:was an extremely unique musical experience. It was entirely out of the ordinary and far from the usual concert set•up. An ex:• tremely different act w.as when Julie sang the words cf the poem \Prairie\, while playing the glass har:monica and being accompanied by Mitchell on the gllitar. ---\' _ .. , __ . -;,,. Juli~~a~?-~tandMitch~l~Qffl--.,r;-· ~-· ,-. campfire setting. Another Julie claimed at an interview reason ~de~idedto put together \We've been working togethe~ . the series 1s t?at 1 foWld that for two years creating all our students don t often go to own music and performing l()ts traditional concerts; they're· of concerts. We write music for .put off by black tie and tails. So, orchestras · ensembles and this ~ves them .a chanc~ ~o dance comPanies. The sub-title ex:~r1ence the ~rt ~! mus1c m of tonight's performance is Folk an mformal settmg. . Music of the 21st Century. We Julie Kabat . sang in the took varying kinds of American perfonnance, played a glass poetry and combined them with harmonica, and a musical saw. musical idioms.\ The glass .harmonica was ac• . h 11 \W , ·th tually a series of champagne ~tc . e. says, . e re -_ e real glasses with varying amoWlts of thing-:hvmg artist~ who make water in them set up on a table. their ll~gs on thell' o~ tru,~nt. _ It is played by running yo11r My mustc reflects my life. fingers along the r~ of the This was a very enjoyable Poet·at u:n.io:n By MARJORIE.BOFFER ·After a long hard day of many disasters, I was hardly in the mood for a_ poetry reading. However, I found a .seat on a comfortable co11·ch in the Humanities Lounge and, much to my surp~e, enjoyed the session. Michael Heffernan,_ a fairly contemporary- poet, was at Union last Tllursd~y and conducted two sessions.f The first was. to be a ~~discussion', about his poetry and the in- fluence -of William Carlos wmams (a free-verse poet), on Heffernan's work. Digressing a bit, the subject matter changed tones as a min~>r argument arose between the importance and influence of }Hietry taught in high school. The. budding poet O!lght to ntJte that Hef- fernan appreciates tile confines of form in his W()rks. Though some of his .poetry is in free- . verse, he admitted that form -forces the writer t() be more inventive and creative with .subject matter ami vocabUlar,y. Students of Proiess()r Smith, whose presence comprised · about 75 percent of the audience, were .already aware of this advice. . That same evening, Hef- fernan read about twenty of his poems.· For the laYJ)erson, this event was anticipated to be a crashing bore, bu.t Heffernan has a wonderful ~yle and his subject matter is quite con- temporary witllo-ut being bizarre. Dressed irl a fisher- man's sweater, the·pGet looked much like Garrison Keeler. Heffern.an's midwest residence and: Irish heritage were quite apparent in many of his poems. He opened with rea<lings from one .of his publishecl.!lnthologies, \The Cry of Oliver Hardyn. Consistent with themes that Heffernan grew up with the poems were about treland, hiS family and the mid-west. Interestingly, th;ere was a strong influence of a Catholic education in his poetry as quite a few pieces were aoout saints. Often times, the .poems were humorous-ranging from eating a raccoon-stew to the poem ''The Missing Link''; wbich was about that a~esome sport of Professional Wrestlmg. glasses. The musical saw is musical experience, and I urge played by holding the handle those who have time to attend 1---------- between your knees, and one -of these performances. The b()ldingthetipofthe,sawinyolll' next one will, be on Friday, Minor. This piece was probably hand; A violin-like bow was run February 13, and the theme Will one of the most; magnificant _a_lo_n_g .. th_e_. ed_g_e_o_f_ th_e_s_aw_w_hil._e __ be __ rndi_an_·_da_ ... n .. ce_._, ____ __. compositions I've ever heard played by an orcbestra. Herbig clearly conveyed hiS European expertise with Bruckner, and conducted this symphony without a score. Flutist: At Proctor's ByCATHYMARKES Last Thursday, January 2!1, Proctor's Theater hosted world- class flutist Jean-Pierre Rampar and the Detroit Symphony, conducted by for- mer music director of the East Berlin Symphony, Gunther Herbig. This impressive con- cert was the premier of an East Coast tour for these artists, the remaining shows being played in NYC's Carnegie Hall and Washington DC's .John F. Kennedy Center. Certainly the Rampal billing drew a large crowd to the theater in downtown Schenectady. Since only two pieces were performed Thu.r- sday night, Rampal's playing time was limited to Mozart's Flute Concerto No. 2 in 0. Major. _ I was personally disappointed to hear this renowned flutist play such P short piece, but as expected, Rampal set a certain mood on stage to allow tbe audience to enjoy every moment of this 25- minute concerto. . Tliking his place next to GWlther Herbig in front of the orchestra, Ra~pal ~lear~y appea.r.ed conf1dent m ills burgundy tails with lips poised on the mouthpiece ·Of his golden flute. Although the first Allegro of the concerto was less than polished, Rampal and t}le sympathy settled into . the Andante beautifully. The smgle flute and the strings com- plemented each other well-in fact, at times their entrances were so gently phrased it was difficultto discern exactly when they actually began playing. The piece· then shifted into a typical_ high-spirited Allegro, with all the instruments an- swering each other with variations of the melody, and endJng with a classical German phrase. After the intermission, Herbig and the full orchestra returned to perform Bruckner's 75-minute Symphony No. B ·in C. The first movement was majestic and ear-cat-cJhlng, with countless nuances being passed from section to section within the -full orchestra. The violiils were quivering in almost- Silence, while , th¢' horns were keeping With the rise and fall of the melodic line. Tbis led into the Scherzo, whicll treated the audience to a well-exec11ted harp solo. Tbe A<Wglc(althougb soothing) seemed lengthy; when the trwnpet fanfare an- nounced the begimrillg of the Finale, the audience shifted in their seats to enjoy the last brilliant movements of Bruckner's Eighth. The_ packed howe applauded quite loudly, but I C()uldn't help but wonder, at. that ))oint, w)ly I had wanted to see ltampat in the first place. For me, Gunther Herbig's performalice with the Detroit SYIIlphony was by. far the superior J»rti()n of this program. Somehe>w, Bruckner stole the snow! THE ARTS -,. Jim and Buddy at The Movies Outrageous Fortune Rated -R starring Bette Midler and Shelley Long \Adventure comedies\ seem to be the current popular genre of movies that are be-ing . released, i.e ... \Legal Eagles\ '~Jumping Jack Flash\ a~d \Something Wild''. Each moVIe . takes iwo seemingly opposite · . characters, runs them through some sort of loosely constructed mystery or adventure plot, and ends with the two players im- probable friends after a happy · outcome. The formula is an age old one, dating back to \It . Happened One Night\ with Clark Gable and Claudette · Colbert, and it usually makes for an enjoying movie. \Outrageous Fortune'', • starring Bette Midler and It's a pleasure to hear poetry read by the author. It's more of a pleasure to find that prejudices are wrong. Poetry is not always a mass of esoteric euphemisms or flowery praise of nature. It can be the result of someone's \average\ life in the mid a west (although. _ the SheRy Long, fits perfectly into the \adventure comedy\ category. The two stars are two exact opposites who happen to share one thing; boy friend Peter Corote. ~ng brings her stuffy prmcess character from ''Cheers'' (she seems doomed to have to play Diane for life), against the openly brash and fouhnoutl)ed Midler. The plot is loosely tied to espionage, but that hardly matters, for it is the jokes and gags that carry the film, including George Carlin leading a gang of war wj:10oping Indian bikers. The film would stand on its own just being funny, yet-to . make it more . · attractive to adults, there are the U&Ual quota of gratuitous four-letter words and violence to obtain the much valued R rating. All in all, tho11gh, \Outrageous Fortune\ is a very fllllny movie. B+ 'someone' has above writing ability). Next week, the IDOL and the Department of English bring poet David St. John to Union. He is the author of several books and wUl be reading from his poetry at 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, February 10 _in the Humanities Lounge. - WR~C - PLA YLIST ••• 1 fm STEREO • •tHE FIRST STATION IN THE NATI OH• NEW8.9-7 Husker .Ou breaks out into the Number One slot in its first week following it's release. No. Album 1~ Warehouse: Songs and Artist Label Husker Du Warner Bros. 2. Ragin' Fun-on Stories F in~house SST XTC Geffen 3. Skylarking .. 4. Alternative Tactics 5. 3 Wishes 12\ 6. The Whole Story 1 . 7. Rave on New Johnny 5 Arts Passion Rave UPS Fun Stuff Kate Bush E.MI Andy White MCA a. Brave, Clean& Reverent 8.97Head Wild Seeds Jungle Batfish Boys Twilight TOP ADDS: China Crisis, Wednesday Week, C.S. Angles. ADVERTURE PICK: 700 Club PROGRAMMI;NG NOTES: 1f you can't be at the Public Speaking Competition, you can listen to it broadcast live on WRUC starting at 7:30p.m .... The Spotlight Show of the Week is \The Head- master's Ritual, with Bill Case, Wed., 12-2 a.m .... Trivia is almost here. _com pi led by Mike Roban .. j, ~1~4::

CONCORDIENSIS, February 5. 1987 lmprov - Part II Kabat & Korn ByJOYCYBUL On Friday, January 30, Julie Kabat and Mitchell Korn performed in the second Dart of Union's Winter Im- provisation Series of 1987. The performance took place in the performing arts studio at 7:30, and there was an ex- tremely good turnout of both students and Schenectady residents. The series is an outcome of Professor Hilary Tann's ex- treme dedication to music. \This is the third year that I've arranged the Improvisation Series at Union. I decided to have it run through the Winter term so that students could have someplace to go on a cold Friday night right here on campus. The setting is always informal and many people sit on the floor. It's almost like a c c Ill ~ - .c CL >- .0 0 0 .c Q_ bending the ~w, creating an eerie sound. Accompanying Julie was Mitchell Korn,. who played a 12- string guitar. \The extra strings cause a brighter, crisper sound.\ The guitar can sound like a harp, or like two guitars being played at once. The performance consisted of song, poetry, and music. The opening number consisted of Julie singing a song entitled, \I Wrote a Q-ood Omelet,\ while accompanied by Mitchell on the guitar. Needless to say, this was an extremely unique musical experience. It was entirely out of the ordinary and far from the usual concert set-llp. An exm tremely different act was when Julie sang the words of the poem \Prairie\, while playing the glass harmonica and being accompanied by Mitchell on the guitar. Julie Kabat and Mitchel Korn campfire setting. Another reason I decided to put together the series is that I found that students don't often go to traditional concerts; they're put off by black tie and taUs. So, this gives them a chance to experience tile art of music in an informal setting.'' Julie claimed at an interview, \We've been working together for two years creating all our own music and performing lots of concerts. We write music for orchestras, ensembles and dance companies. The sub-title of tonight's performance is Folk Music of the 21st Century. We took varying kinds of American poetry and combined them with musical idioms.\ Mitchell says, \We're the real thing-living artists who make their livings on their own talent. My music reflects my life.'' This was a very enjoyable musical experience, and I urge Poet at Unio,n By MARJORIE HOFFER After a long hard day of many disasters, I was hardly in tbe mood for a poetry reading. However, I found a seat on a comfortable couch in the Humanities Lounge and, IDUch to my .surprise, enjoyed the session. Michael Heffernan, a fairly contemporary .poet, was at Union last Thursday and conducted two sessions.£ The first was to be a \discussion\ about his poetry and the in- fluence of William Carlos Wiliams (a free-verse poet), on Heffernan's work. Digressing a bit, the sl:lbject matter changed tones as a minor argument arose between the importance and influence of poetry taught in high school. The budding poet O!J.ght to note that Hef- fernan appreciates the confines of form in his works. Though some of his poetry is in free- verse, he admitted that form forces the writer to be more inventive and creative with subject matter and vocabulal:'y. Students of Professor Smith, whose presence comprised about 75 percent of the audience, were already aware of this advice. That same evening, Hef- fernan read about twenty of his poems: For the layperson, this event was anticipated to be a crashing bore, but Heffernan has a wonderful style and his subject matter is quite con- temporary without being bizarre. Dressed in a fisher- man's sweater, the poet looked much like Garrison Keeler. Heffernan's midwest residence and Irish heritage were quite apparent in many of his poems. He opened with readings from one of his published anthologies, \The Cry of Oliver Hardy\. Consistent with themes tbat Heffernan grew up with the poems were about Ireland, his family and the mid-west. Interestingly, there was a strong influence of a Catholic education in his poetry as quite a few pieces were about saints. Often times, the poems were humorous-ranging from eating a raccoon-stew to the poem \The Missing Link\ which was about that awesome sport of Professional Wrestling. Julie Kabat sang in the performance, played a glass harmonica, and a musical saw. The glass harmonica was ac- tually a series of champagne glasses with varying amounts of water in them set up on a table. It is played by running your fingers along the rims of the glasses. The musical saw is played by holding the handle between your knees, and holding the tip of the saw in your hand. A violin·like bow was run along the edge of the saw while those who have time to attend 1------------ one of these performances. The next one will be on Friday, February 13, and the theme will be Indian dance. Flutist: At Proctor's ByCATHYMARKES Last Thursday, January 29, Proctor's Theater hosted world- class flutist Jean-Pierre Rampar ami the Detroit Symphony, conducted by for- mer music director of the East Berlin Symphony, Gunther Herbig. This impressive con- cert was the premier of an East Coast tour for these artists, the remaining shows being played in NYC's Carnegie Hall and Washington DC's John F. Kennedy Center. Certainly the Rampal billing drew a large crowd to the theater in downtown Schenectady. Since only two pieces were performed Thur- sday night, Ram pal's playing time was limited to Mozart's Flute Concerto No. 2 in D. Major. I was personally disappointed to hear this renowned fl11tist play such a short piece, but as expected, Rampal set a certain mood on stage to allow the audience to enjoy every moment of this 25- minute concerto. Taking his place next to Gunther Herbig in front of the orchestra, Rampal clearly appeared confident in his burgundy tails with lips poised on the mouthpiece of his golden flute. Although the first Allegro of the concerto was less than polished, Rampal and the sympathy settled into the Andante beautifully. The single flute and the strings com- plemented each other well-in fact, at times their entrances were so gently phrased it was difficult to discern exactly when they actually began playing. The piece then shifted into a typical high-spirited Allegro, with all the instrwnents an- swering each other with variations of the melody, and ending with a classical German phrase. After the intermission, Herbig and the full orchestra returned to perform Bruckner's 75-minute Symphony No. B in C. Minor. This piece was probably one of the most magnificant compositions I've ever heard played by an orchestra. Herbig clearly conveyed his European expertise with Bruckner, and conducted this symphony without a score. The first movement was majestic and ear-catching, with countless nuances being passed from section to section within the full orchestra. The violins were quivering in almost- silence, while the horns were keeping with the rise and fall of the melodic line. This led into the Scherzo, which treated the audience to a well-executed harp solo. The Adagio (although soothing) seemed lengthy; when the trwnpet fanfare an- nounced the beginning of the Finale, the audience shifted in their seats to enjoy the last brilliant movements of Bruckner's Eighth. The packed house applauded quite loudly, but I couldn't help but wonder, at that point, why I had wanted to see Rampal in the first place. For me, Gunther Herbig's performance with the Detroit Symphony was by. far the superior portion of this program. Somehow, Bruck11er stole the show! Page 17 THE ARTS Jim and Buddy .at The Movies Outrageous Fortune Rated -R starring Bette Midler and Shelley Long \Adventure comedies\ seem to be the current popular genre of movies that are being released, i.e ... \Legal Eagles\ \Jumping Jack Flash\ and \Something Wild\. Each movie takes two seemingly opposite characters, runs them through some sort of loosely constructed mystery or adventure plot, and ends with the two players im- probable friends after a happy outcome. The formula is an age old one, dating back to \It Happened One Night\ with Clark Gable and Claudette Colbert. and it usually makes for an enjoying movie. \Outrageous Fortune\ starring Bette Midler and It's a pleasure to hear poetry read by the author. It's more of a pleasure to find that prejudices are wrong. Poetry is not always a mass of esoteric euphemisms or flowery praise of nature. It can be the result of someone's \average\ life in the mid-west (although the Shelly Long, fits perfectly into the \adventure comedy\ category. The two stars are two exact opposites who happen to share one thing; boy friend Peter Coyote. Long brings her stuffy princess character from \Cheers\ (she seems doomed to have to play Diane for life), against the openly brash and foulmouthed Midler. The plot is loosely tied to espionage, but that hardly matters, for it is the jokes and gags that carry the film, including George Carlin leading a gang of war whooping Indian bikers. The film would stand on its own just being funny, yet-to make it more attractive to adults, there are the usual quota of gratuitous four-letter words and violence to obtain the much valued R rating. All in all, though, \Outrageous Fortune\ is a very funny movie. B+ 'someone' has above writing ability). Next week, the IDOL and the Department of English bring poet David St. John to Union. He is the author of several books and will be reading from his poetry at 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, February 10 in the Humanities Lounge. WRUC - PLA YLIST at,7 fm STEREO • •THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION• NEW 8.97 Husker Du breaks out into the Number One slot in its first week following it's release. No. Album 1., Warehouse: Songs and 2. Ragin' Full-On Stories 3. Skylarking 4. Alternative Tactics 5. 3 \N ishes 12\ 6. The Whole Story 7. Rave On Artist Label Husker Du Warner Bros. Firehouse SST XTC Geffen New Johnny 5 Arts Passion Rave UPS Fun Stuff Kate Bush EMI Andy White MCA 8. Brave, Clean & Reverent Wii:d Seeds Jungle 8.97 Head Batfish Boys Twilight TOP ADDS: China Crisis, Wednesday Week, C.S. Angles. ADVERTURE PICK: 700 Club PROGRAMMING NOTES: If you can't be at the Public Speaking Competition, you can listen to it broadcast live on WRUC starting at 7:30p.m .... The Spotlight Show of the Week is \The Head· master's Ritual\ with Bill Case, Wed., 12-2 a.m .... Trivia is almost here. Compiled by Mike Roban

Page 18 CONCORJJJENSJS, F eiJruary 5, 1987 - THE.ARTS Arts Briefs \The Subject Was Roses'' The full length two-act play, \The Subject Was Ros~s,\ l>Y Frank Gilroy, will be presented as a \second stage\ production which will be directed by Ed Lange. The story reunited a mother and father with their son, a young veteran back home in the Bronx after three years of combat in World War II. \The Subject Was Roses\ will be . performed at ESIPA at the Egg on Sunday, February 15, at 2 · p.m. Tickets are $5~00 and are available in the studio Theater. For further information, please call 4435111. Sonndance The last concert in the Winter Improvisation Series featuring Hurdy Gurdy man Donald Heller bas been changed. In his place will be a dance program featuring Union dance instructor Vera Orlock, and · musician, Matthieu Keijser. Thetwo performers can be seen and heard in a free concert on· Friday, February 2:1 at 7:30 p.m. in the Performing Arts studio. Violinist at Proctor's Violinist Mary Randles will be featured as a special guest . solcist with the Schenectady Symphony. Orchestra oil Saturday, February 7, at 8 p.m. . . in Proctor;s Theater. Tickets . are $9.00 for adults and$4;00 for · st11dents and are available at . · Community Box Offices and Pr()ctor's Box Office. ' Indian Dance .An ensemble of five individuals will .present an evening of Indian dapce and · music at Union College at the third concert in the Winter ImproVisation Series on Friday, February 13,. at 7:30 p.m. in the Performing Arts Studio. Featured in this concert is · LaU.bmi, a Bharata N~ty~ dancer in the South Indian · classical tradition. The IDOL 'The IDOL and the Depart- . ment of English cordiallY invite you to an evening with poet David St, John who will read , from hi$ work at 8:00 p.m. oa Tuesday, February 10, in the seeond floor lounge of the Humanities Center of Unioa eonege. The reading is free and the public;: is welcome. By ,NANCY GRUNDMAN Agatha Christie's whodunit play,, \The Mousetrap,\ will be at the Empire State Institute for Performing Arts until February 13. The ESIP A's company production of \'l'he Mousetrap\ was a delightful suspense mystery. The stage is set in Monks:well Manor, a mansion converted into a guest house. In a nearby house a murder has taken place. The murderer is thc;~ught to ·be loose in the ll;fea and everyone at the manor lS a suspect. All the characters have something to hide and tbrougllout the play more and more of the secrets come out. Director Terenee Lamude, introduced each character and their idiosyncrasies in a hwnotQUS way. Christopher Wren played by Christopher Foster is a schitzophrenic effeminate architect •. who acts like a Sara Bernhart. Mike Casewell, on the other han<!, played by Beth Broderick, is a masculine woman who has a mysterious past. Mrs. Boyle, played by Betsy Normile, portrays an old snobbish woman,. who lives in guest h9uses and loves . to complain. Gary C?· Aldr1ch -Ironweed ByDAVI!lGULLIVER portrays Major Metcalf, an old This week, Jack Nicholson war veteran, who throughQUt . and Meryl ~treep wiU arrive in the play is seen sneaking . Alban,y to begin prod11ction of drinks. Mr. Parava¢ini played the firstm.ajormotion picture to by John Romeo is t}le . befi4nedentirelyintheCapital unexpected guest, very sneaky . District area. Tri~tar Pictures andsuspicio'l.iS. Mollie and Giles expects to begin filming Ralston (Jeanne Vigliante and · WilHam Kennedy's Pulitzer David Bunce), the owners ofthe .Prize whining novel mansion, are still newlyweds \Ironweed\ on February 23, who became suspicious of each using several locations in other. downtown A.lbany, Hudson, and When Detective Sergeant Cast1eto11. , Trotter· played by Joseph Kennedy .is a professor of Larrabee-Quandt, gets . to the English at SUNY Albany and a mansion, the unraveling begins. lifelong resident ol nearby T}lroughout the show the voice Averill Park. His novel on the radio serves as the \Ironweed'' iB set in post'\ ann01mcer, giving. background Depression Albany and infonnation on the m11rderer. recounts the story of Fr~cis This voice-Over lends itself Phelan, a former baseball wonderfully to the creepiness of player and current the show. gravedigger, and his: friend, · f Helen, two people reduced to \The Mousetrap, is a story o poverty by __ ~ Depression. suspicion,. and ·of. jwnping to PreViously, Ken,nedy oeq-wrote conclusions. This show has been . playing in London since \The C&1ton Club\ wi.tll FranciS November 25, 1952.Jn the past 3 Ford Coppola and_brO:-ught the Y ears over a q· '!W1er million ·. worldpremiereofthatmovie ~ h Albany's Palace ·Tileatre · m people in . 43 .'~countries ave . December 1984. Similarly, disoovered who did it. Please Kennedy's efforts convinced the don't share the secret. -management to shoot all major Mew Exec. Board of ·-wR.IJC General Manager . J. Conrad Tatge Technical Manager AntonSrdonovie . ' scenes in Albany. . One sueh scene will be -filined at 198 Ce11trid Avenue; formeriy the Bolilevard night elub, and currently an ab,{lndoned building under extensive renovatio11. Where trolley ears ran on Lark Street 45 years.ago, the production company will restore the tracks for a trolley sequence. There is also a · soundstsge under construction in dowatown Albany. The opening c-emetery seq11ence will be ,shut tither in Castleton or .in Al~y Rural Cemetery, and a junkyard in Hudson will be yet another location. \Ironweed\ rewrtedly has a budget of $25 million and the production crew should -be ,in Albany for about five months. The company is k;eeping a low Business Manager Thomas Coleman . prc;~fUe to date . and there is . currently- no date set; for its Programming M811ager John M. McCann Promotional Manager KelleyG, Park Congratulations to Kelley Park, . the · klewest member of· th · · release~ ff. yo11 woUld like to get an adv~ce. Joo~, the novel is available at most local bQoksmres. Although it is often graphic in its portr;ayal of the derelict's life, it is a powerful Executive Board. . . ·Compiled by Mi~h~el Roba,n · Music.Pirecto and moving work. It should provide quite a challenge even. to NichC~Ison and Streep, as well as to director Hector Babenco (Kiss of the Spider Woman), three of the finest· in ciner.na today. CABARE·T IS LOOKING ,l'OR YOU ' . C'ALL JASON, .. . 3S3-7373/BOX 1725

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, February 5, 1987 THE.ARTS Arts Briefs ''The Subject Was Roses'' The full length two-act play, \The Subject Was Roses,\ by Fran.k Gilroy, win be presented as a \secondstage\ production which will be directed by Ed Lange. The story reunited a mother and father with their son, a young veteran back hollle in the Bronx after three years of combat in World War II. \The Subject Was Roses\ will be perfonned at ESIPA at the Egg on Sunday, February 15, at 2 p.m. Tickets are $5.00 and are available in the Studio Theater. For further infonnation, please call 443-5111. Soundance The last concert in the Winter Improvisation Series featuring Hurdy Gurdy man Donald Heller has been changed. In his place will be a dance program featuring Union dance instructor Vera Orlock, and musician, Matthieu Keijser. The two performers can be seen and heard in a free concert on Friday, February 27 at 7:30 p.m. in the Performing Arts Studio. Violinist at Proctor's Violinist Mary Randles will be featured as a special guest soloist with the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra on Saturday, February 7, at 8 p.m. in Proctor's Theater. Tickets are $9.00 for adults and $4.00 for students and are available at Community Box Offices and Proctor's Box Office. Indian Dance An ensemble of five individuals will present an evening of Indian dance and music at Union College at the · third concert in the Winter Improvisation Series on Friday, . February 13, at 7:30p.m. in the · Performing Arts Studio. · Featured in this concert is · Lakshmi, a Bharata Natyam. dancer in the South Indian classical tradition. The IDOL The IDOL and the Depart·· ment of English cordially invite • you to an evening with poet David St. John who will read from his work at 8:00 p.m. on . Tuesday, February 10, in the. second floor lounge of the Humanities Center of Union College. The reading is free and the public is welcome. By NANCY GRUNDMAN Agatha Christie's whodunit play, ''The Mousetrap,\ will be at t:he Empire State Institute for Performing Arts until February 13. The ESIPA's company production of \The Mousetrap\ was a delightful suspense mystery. The stage is set in Monks well Manor, a mansion converted into a guest house. In a nearby house a murder has taken place. The murderer is thought to be loose in the area and everyone at the manor is a suspect. All the cllaracters have something to hide and throughout the play more and more of the secrets come out. Director Terence Lamude, introduced each character and their idiosyncrasies in a humorous way. Christopher Wren played by Christopher Foster is a schitzophrenic effeminate architect. who acts like a Sara Bernhart. Mike Casewell, on the other hand, played by Beth Broderick, is a masculine woman who has a mysterious past. Mrs. Boyle, played by Betsy Normile, portrays an old snobbish woman, who lives in guest houses and loves to complain. Gary 0. Aldrich portrays Major Metcalf, an old war veteran, who throughout the play is seen sneaking drinks. Mr. Paravacini played by John Romeo is the unexpected guest, very sneaky and suspicious. Mollie and Giles Ralston (Jeanne Vigliante and David Bunce), the owners of the mansion, are still newlyweds who became suspicious of each other. When Detective Sergeant Trotter played by Joseph Larrabee-Quandt, gets to the mansion, the unraveling begins. Throughout the show the voice on the radio serves as the annowtcer, giving background information on the murderer. This voice-over lends itself wonderfully to the creepiness of the show. \The Mousetrap\ is a story of suspicion, and of jumping to conclusions. This show has been playing in London since November 25, 1952 •. In the past 3 years over a quarter million people in 43 coWltries have discovered who did it. Please don't share the secret. New Exec. Board of WRUC General Manager J. Conrad Tatge Technical Manager Anton Srdonovic Business Manager Thomas Coleman Programming Manager John M. McCann Promotional Manager Kelley G. Park Congratulations to Kelley Park, the newest member of th Executive Board. Compiled by Michael Rohan Music Directo Ironweed By DAVE GULLIVER This week, Jack Nicholson and Meryl Streep will arrive in Albany to begin production of the first majormotion picture to be filmed entirely in the Capital District area. Tri-8tar Pictures expects to begin filming William Kennedy's Pulitzer Prize winning novel \Ironweed\ on February 23, using several locations in downtown Albany, Hudson, and Castleton. Kennedy is a professor of English at SUNY Albany and a lifelong resident of nearby Averill Park. His novel \Ironweed\ is set in post .. Depression Albany and recounts the story of Francis Phelan, a former baseball player and current gravedigger, and his friend, Helen, two people reduced to poverty by the Depression. Previously, Kennedy co-wrote \The Cotton Club\ with Francis Ford Coppola and brought the world premiere of that movie to Albany's Palace Theatre in December 1984. Similarly, Kennedy's efforts convinced the management to shoot all major scenes in Albany. One such scene will be filmed at 198 Central Avenue, formerly the Boulevard night club, and currently an a ban do ned building under extensive renovation. Where trolley cars ran on Lark Street 45 years ago, the production company will restore the tracks for a trolley sequence. There is also a soundstage Wlder construction in downtown Albany. The opening cemetery sequence will be shot either in Castleton or in Albany Rural Cemetery, and a junkyard in Hudson will be yet another location. ''Ironweed\ reportedly has a budget of $25 million and the production crew should be in Albany for about five months. The company is keeping a low profile to date and there is currently no date set for its release. If you would like to get an advance look, the novel is available at most local bookstores. Although it is often graphic in its portrayal of the derelict's life, it is a powerful and moving work. It should provide quite a challenge even to Nicholson and Streep, as well as to director Hector Babenco (Kiss of the Spider Woman), three of the finest in cinema today. CABARET IS LOOKING FOR YOU CALL JASON, :393-7373/BOX1726 •

I )J I l I j l I I l :I 1: I' I; •' lj ,, 1 1., • l !l l '( ,. I ' t. ~· ~ t1 'f l; t;· (.,). {' Pa~e 19 . . : . -·THEARTS ·- - - -- . . - _- ' . \. - - -- BY~RJORD&HOFFER AU of ~e doWntown parking lots were full. An entreprene'ilr was Charging. two dollars fqr a .place in his gravel pit lot. The extravaganza wf1s a production of Cole Porter's ·~can Can.\ Not Surprisingly, the four per- .formances at Proctor's Theatre had been· completely sold out, . including. the · two matinees~ When \Can Can''. first opened on Broadway in 1958, it ran for 895 performances. Now ·a bit dated, watching \Can can\ reminded me of an old musical on T.V. It had aU of the ingredients of a typical musical predictable plot, predictable characters, and hot dance numbers. But like most old Hollywood movies, \Can Can\ was a lot offun. not. have Strippers, bllt the scandalous· \Cart Can'' dancers ~ho dare to ''show their derriers-ow!\ N·aturally, Pistacbe~andthe pl'!udi$h Judge, Jamie zem~el, whO aims to shut doWJtthe house of ill repute fall in love. This maip plot, all but t.oo compelliag, is f;Omplicated. with the story of Cl•ndine, one of the dancers. ',['his absolutely morortic blonde, Eva Baron, is in love with one of the Parisian Bohemians, although she is also ~~g pursued by a wealthy ~ cnt1c. The most amusing and best acted character was the poor struggl~g artist, Boris {whose sculptures of fish will never be called :famOU$), played by David. SChuller~ He took on a delightful Bulgarian accent and really looked the part. actf5rs put on. a solid • · per.forrnance. Ms. Donohue belted out her solos with skill. :She lillways appeared aUuring, like any madame . should. Her hip liU@ging dresses accented her ,feminine figure~ In fact, aU of the ·costumes were excellent. They were bright; fun, and colorful. The musical performances were adequate. Unfortunately, the dance · numbrs were· a bit disap- pointing. They were well per• formed, but lacked that certain pizzaz. _ Opening the sh,ow was \~ Mome Pistache\ played .by ·~ DGnohue. The show is about her illegal. dance h8ll, No~; it does, A musical does not need f~tastic. lilctot::S ~an.d .actresses for those one-dimensional roles, but the majority of the Despite the problems with the microphone, I felt m.y .trip to Proctor's in sub-zero temperatures was worth.it. Can Can was ·the type of sbow that my mother would say was \cute\ (if she didn't first call it sexist)'. A serious ·warning to all Proctor's patrons: If you are attending a popular show, arrive , EAltLY to oPt:;~in a parking spot tilat is closer to the theater than Uriion College. Soprano Jesse Norman Cabaret Is Back Just Like-- Old Times Jessye Norman a·t Proctor's Theatre c: i \' \0 0 C) c 111' ~ >· .a ., .. .,. . By DAVE FRIEDMAN · Dave -Provost, Wendy Richards, and Jeff Winter cranked out the music and had people singing and dancing . during Cabaret last Thursday night. Our musicians were accompanied by a long lost and much missed Cabaret alumni: alcohol. Yes, _on TJlUrsd&:l: nights, the .beer is back along. with an assortment of top shell alcohol. The 10:00 show now . admits students who are twenty-one and older. Once again Thursday night is party night at Union College. Dave and Wendy got things started with ~'l.AJve is a. Rose\ and ''Times They Are a Changing/, After getting comfortable with the crowd and By LIZ SEWA~D If you're anything like me, and view opera as a bunch of singers running around .in Viking hats, you probably would have despised the very idea of trekking to Proctor's last Tuesday night. But had you made the effort, you would have been quite pleasantly surprised. Jessye Norman, a s-oprano who appearecl in Schenectady on Febr118ry 2, was worth making an effort to see. Miss Norman's program for the evening consisted of four · part$-the first in Italian (we · think!), the second in German, the third in French, and the fourth in English. My companion, a stay-at-home from Webster House more CanCan acoustics, the couple geared Up L-----------~r==========;;=;::-----------, the audience with some Simon e:ffi asll= and Garfunkel ·· and Eagles Provost, Mr. Winters cranked ·.QtJCP. . . ·. ·.. . . . :. .·. · U . M- tunes. As the music ·progre8sed out a set of Grateful Dead . . and tb.e llottles emptied, both interspersed with some original . the mUSiCianS and: au 0 dien~e t~ethsandlaS()tngfsbyottherartisf.' thts, mc~;dy$ 0 4JSf flJl .. · ... 0 - \Vere as finely tuned as ave s .fti). e s - ew · unes o . e ~ tsm) 511'-t>l5l ~ £f1f' - guitar. - evening were played, and Tri Dave completed the set with a Delta's infamous Val Bromberg song of his ·oown and every()ne wa& seen gyrating acros~ the passed the time ~ Jason the dancdloor·to '\GOod Loven and technician man wQrked ''Jaekstra w,\ eve·ryone diligently to improve the so11Dd realized that the night was a quality. Unfortunately Jason's ·· complete success. equilibrium, , or lack thereof, · For upperclas~en, the late prevented hbn form improving evening show Will rekindle the situation. Not to wor:ey, Jeff memories of years past, when Winters, the Bobby Wer of · Thursday night Cab&7et was a Union College, came on stage to staple in everyone's g~ the show back on ~e road. preweekend partY. die~. The With the . occasional Hale Bouse loung proVIdes ~n accompaniment of nave excellent setting. e . .. \to ' ' · ·wendv and· Dave play at Cabaret.~ - . accustomed to U-2 than opera, thought that the French section excelled, and I was forced to agree. Miss Norman has a voice perfectly suited to the light, upbeat tempos of Poulenc' s pieces. Her body language only helped to reinforce the brightness of the music. Miss Norman also sang pieces by Haydn, MaJ'iler, Berg, QUilter and Ives, all to great effect. My personal thoughts on the piece by Haydn were that it was a marvelous trade-off · between piano and soprano, but a little too long to begin the program. Miss Norman made her operatic debut in December 1969 in Berlin, and has been singing to rapt audiences ever since. In 1982, she won the \Musician of the Year\ award and received honorary doctorates from Howard University and the Boston Conservatory. She has toured every major city iri' lrurope and North .America in IINI:>, ana sang at President Reagan's InaugUral Ceremonies. Just last year, she perfonned for Queen Elizabeth's 60th birthday celebration. Most recently, Miss Norman -has been performing Tannhauser at the Metropolitan Opera House to sold-out audience!! and rave reviews. At this · latest perfonnance, her performance was not sold out, but was certainly enjoyed by the Schen~ctady audience, ~hich gave her 6 standing ovations, and urged. Miss Norman to sing · ·three additional songs {~uch to ~.'.the. woe of mi (»Jl)panion who bad a paper tc) \vrite later that evening). Sb:e was accompanied by pianiSt Geoffrey Parsons, and can be seen later this week in Washington, oc· on the 8th. It's Jast Off Broadway. '>

c i ·UI \0 0 \ c: til \\') ~ CONCORDIENSIS, February 5, lfJB 7 Page 19 Can Can at Proctor's By MARJORIE HOFFER All of the downtown parking lots were full. An entrepreneur was charging two dollars for a place in his gravel pit lot. The extravaganza was a production of Cole Porter's \Can Can.\ Not Surprisingly, the four per- formances at Proctor's Theatre had been completely sold out, including the two matinees. When \Can Can\ iirst opened on Broadway in 1958, it ran for 895 performances. Now a bit dated, watching \Can Can\ reminded me of an old musical on T.V. It had all of the ingredients of a typical musical predictable plot, predictable characters, and hot dance numbers. But like most old Hollywood movies, \Can Can\ was a lot of fun. Opening the show was \La Mome Pistache\ played by Liz Donohue. The show is about her illegal dance hall. No, it does Cabaret Is Back Just Like Old Tim~s By DAVE FRIEDMAN Dave Provost, Wendy Richards, and J·eff Winter cranked out the music and had people singing and dancing during Cabaret last Thursday night. Our musicians were accompanied by a long lost and much missed Cabaret almnni: alcohol. Yes, on Thursday nights, the beer is back along with an assortment of top shelf alcohol. The 10:00 show now admits students who are twenty-one and older. Once again Thursday night is party night at Union Coll~ge. Dave and Wendy got thmgs started with \Love is a Rosen and \Times They Are a Changing.\ After getting comfortable with the crowd and not have strippers, but the scandalous \Can Ca.n\ dancers who dare to 1 'sho,w their d,erriers-ow!'' Na,turally, Pistache and the pruGish Judge, Jamie Zemarel, who aims to shut down tl:le house ()fill repute fall in love. This 01ain plot, all but too compeiling, is complicated with the story of Claudine, one of tile dancers. This absolutely moronic blonde, Eva Baron, is in love with one of the Parisian Bchemians, although she is al50 being pursued by a wealthy art critic. The most mousing and best acted character was the poor struggling artist, Boris (whose sculptures of fish will never be called famous), played by David Schuller. He t~ok on a delightful Bulgarian a<Jcent and really looked the pa.rt. A musical does not need fantastic actors and actresses for those one-dimenSional roles, but the majority of the ~ - ro Cll ..t: I- !!' ... _g u 0 ... a. 0 > (/) Ill ... ... :::1 0 u act<ir-s put on a solid per-£ormance. Ms. Donohue belted out her solos with skill. She always appeared alluring, like BnY madame should. Her hip hugging dresses accented her feminine figure. In fact, all of tile costumes were excellent. They were bright, fun, and .. coT<lrful. The musical perfi>rmances were adequate. U nfcrtunately, the dance numbrs were a bit disap- pointing. They were well per- formed, but lacked that certain pizza:z. Despite the problems with the micrcphone, I felt my trip to Proe1or's in sub-zero temperatures was worth it. Can Can was the type of show that my mother would say was \cute\ (if she didn't first c~l it sexist). A serious warning to all Pr()ctor's patrons: If you are attending a popular show, arrive . EARLY to obtain a parking spot that is closer to the theater. than Union College. Can Can THE ARTS e .,.. ttl Cll .t: 1- 111 ..... 0 t •0 ... fl.. Soprano Jesse Norman Jessye Norman at Proctor's Theatre By LlZ SEWARD If you're anytl!ing like me, and view opera as a bunch of singers rtlnning around in Viking hats, yC)Il ()robably would have despis.ed the very idea of trekking to Fr()ctor's last Tuesday night- But had you made the effort,. you would have been quite p.1eas!llltly surprised. J essye Norman, a soprano who appeared ill Scllenectady on February 2,. wa.s worth making all effort to sEe . Miss Nomall'S program for the evening C()nsisted of four parts-the first in Italian (we think!), the second in German, the third in French, and the fourth in. English. My companion 1 a stay-at-home from Webster House more accustomed to U-2 than opera, thought that the French section excelled, and I was forced to agree. Miss Norman has a voice perfectly suited to the light, upbeat tempos of Poulenc's pieces. Her body language only helped to reinforce the brightness of the music. Miss Norman also sang pieces by Haydn, Mahler, Berg, Quilter and Ives, all to great effect. My personal thoughts on the piece by Haydn were that it was a marvelous trade-off between piano and soprano, but a little too long to begin the program . acoustics, the couple geared up L--------------;:=========:::;::;::-;:-----------, the audience with some Simon QtJCPccLB a~l~ Miss Norman made her operatic debut in December 1969 in Berlin, and has been singing to rapt audiences ever since. In 1982, she won the \Musician of the Year\ award and received honorary doctorates from Howard University and the Boston Conservatory. She has toured every major city in' ~urope and North America in l~, ana sang at President Reagan's Inaugural Ceremonies. Just last year, she performed for Queen Elizabeth's 60th birthday celebration. and Garfunkel and Eagles Provost, Mr. Winters cranked U tunes. As the music progressed out a set of Grateful Dead and the bottles emptied, both interspersed with some original the musicians and audience tunes and songs by other artists. 62 hefecfidy' n . f ILJl were as finely tuned as Dave's As the last few tUlles of the ~~m) a 10 -t>~l I.J::=t:s u lio~ guitar. evening were played, and Tri Dave completed the set with a Delta's infamous Val Bromberg song of his own and everyone was seen gyrating a(!ross the passed the time as Jason the dance floor to \Good lAve\ and technician man worked \Jackstraw everyone diligently to improve the sound realized that the night was a quality. Unfortunately Jason's complete success. equilibrium,. or lack thereof, For upperclassmen. the late prevented him form improving evening show will rekindle the situation. Not to worry, Jeff memories of years past, when Winters, the Bobby Weir of Thursday night Cal)aret was a Union College, came on stage to staple in everyone's get the show back on the road. preweekend party diet. The With the occasional Hale House loung provides an accompaniment of Dave excellent setting. ·Wendy and Dave play at Cabaret •. ~----------------------------~ -, CD 930 Most recently, Miss Norman has been performing Tannhauser at the Metropolitan Opera House to sold-out audiences and rave reviews. At this latest performance, her performance was not sold out, but was certainly enjoyed by the Schenectady audience, which gave her 6 standing ovations, and urged Miss Norman to sing three additional songs (much to the woe of my companion who had a paper to write later that evening). She was accompanied by pianist Geoffrey Parsons, and can be seen later this week in Washington, DC on the 8th. It's J11st Off Broadway.

I 'l ' ·' Pa~e- ZO INTERNSHIPS Information on these an!l all · other internships are available . in the Internship .notebooks in . the CDC library. The Bostou. Globe is offering : Business Summer Internship · opp<lrtunities to college · sophomores and juniors. These internships wUl be in Adver-· Using, Accounting, and Cir· c ulation. DEADLINE: February 27, 1987. For IDOre information, contact the CDC. The National Tr1.1st for Historic Preservation, w-hlch. operates in part with Yankee Publishing, Inc., offers a :paid internship program that provides hands--on educatiQnal eJqJerience to students in the field of historic preservati<ln. There are Slliiliiler as well as academic internships. DEADLINE: For summer-- . Ma:rch 15, for academic-April 15, 1987. For more information contact the CDC. Tile National Audubou Society is offering winter, spring, swnmer and faU in- ternships this year. Interns become involved in all aspects of the varied educational programs. Areas of in- volvement include: on ~site programs for children and ad11lts, workshops, training and management and much more. For more information co11tact the CDC. llank. Street College has. :paid • internships available to . qualified students · in the · Graduate School SpEcial . Education Programs. The in- · ternships are offered in conaboration with outstmding special. ed11cation schools and · institutions which are approved sites for the supervised field . work requirement for the degree. For more information contact the CDC. Ithaca College has llead Resident positions availallle for the 1987-38 academic year for graduate students. Each Head Resident belps to foster a residence hall enviromnent which contributes to tlle in- tellectual, social and ctiltW'al development . .of students. DEADLINE: March2, 198'1. For more information contact the CDC. Freeze Voter is.now accepting applications for the follCJwing two (2) programs: Freeze Corps., and Internships.. For more iriformation contact the (,'DC. Guilderland High SchiMllhas-a number cf . volunteer oP- portunities. They are challenging and ID;verse ac- tivities~ Volunteers t1e t<J~~her CONCORDJENSIS, February 5, 1987 the school and the Collll!llmity, and share a conunon pur:pcse Gf enrisching the lives o()i! ~he students. For more inf«~rmation contact the CDC. Liturgical Dance--'Su::nday, · · February ll during the•Ot:fertory of.the 7: 30p;m. Mass at:St •.. .J()hn : the Evangelist, two memD.~rs·of . the Folk Groupo.-Deblli.e B;;erard. : and Jodi Bugress·-wiLl in· • troduce us to Litutgic;~L ID;,tnce • as a way of giving praise to&d, Our thanks also to L.is:a .Mer- cugliano and Chrlsti!te . VIllani · who made a banner Eol' tl!is · .occasion. CLUB NEWS Newm.an Club- Ho·n.Qay., February 9 at 7 p..m. in Whitaker House Co:nf.e:rence Room. F'olk. Group-All sii1~rilJ:'S. and musicians interested 1!1 being part of the Music Ministlij\' Cit the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy atSL Johm's may meet with Friall.\ Pllil. at . 6:30 .p.m. in the c:bllt:'cll t() rehearse. The JeWish Student UDi.,n sponsors Friday Night Dinner and a Guest Speaker .Friday, . Kosher Kitchen, 5:30 services,· . 6:00 dinner-$4.00 members .and $5.00 non-members. All are welcome! The Jewish Student Union sponsors a paid-up members Brunch, Sunday, February 8, · 1:00 p.m. Kosher Kitchen. · Bagels, cream cheese, etc.! CLASSIFIEDS Professional typist will type on weekends--term papers, resumesp theses, etc. Call any time. 3994656. AnyonE wishing to sell crafts or organizations wanting to fund raise at the Winteriest 'Vendormart February 15., 11:30 • 4 p.m. contact Sue X4467. Positions available on · campus. for students who are College-Work..:Study eligible .. Contact ·Cindy Bouck in the Personn.el Dept., Silliman Hall if you qualify. Positions available· in the new athletic facility .for students who can work Mond~y, Wed• nesday or Friday morning. Clerical .position also open for student worker available mornings. Contact ·Cindy Bouck, . Personnel Dept'., Sillinlan Hall. The Empires State Chapter of • the American Society of Professional Estimators will nold it's regular meeting on February17, 1987at6:30p.rii.. at • Herbert's Banquet lloll$e & . Caterers •located on 138 Washington A:ve., Albany, N.Y. The program for the evening consists of a tour and presena tation described as Norstar Revisited. Prior to dinner a tour will be conducted of the Norstar Bank on Broadway starting at 5:30p.m. For Rent. Two-bedroom flat. completely furnished. Adults and security. 372:.4048. .. ~VCO LYCOMING TEX· TRON has surruner positions available for ME, IE students. Resumes and transcripts should be submitted to: ... . Joslyn Roberts, Avco LYcoming ·Textron, 5f!O S. Main St., Stratfl;)rd, CT 06497. (203) 385-3555 by the end of February. Positions available from the · first week in June tln\ougb the end of Aug~t. '-=iA!\\'loo-. The Film Committee presents: . Feb. 6.;a, Out .. of Africa at 7: 30 and 10. Feb. lO,.X·Rated. TBA.at 7f 9, · and n. Tickets can be purchased at Old Chapel for $1. Congratulations to Dennis Connel' and . the Stars and Stripes for bringi~g the . America's Cup back home •. Overnight Retreat-llesc- heduled to 5 p.m. , Friday February 20, until 5 p .• m. Saturday,. February ~1\ .at 1630 .$! Nott Street. Theme: Trust. ~ Donation of $5 wlien yoa register with Sr. JoCJn. UNION COLLEGE PHOTO CLUB Tutorial Program\- Un:ion College students are 11ee:ded in . the following areas at&. John the Evangelist Schau~tl: Kin~ dergarten, Computer md.::Math Aides and Math & Ream~ on a one to one. Please co11t:a~t '~isa Mercugliano,. Fox 25~, :2116-UB3. Shut·IIis-Any Unbn CtJllege student who wishes tOt \'Jtsit a shut-in of St. J olilll the Evangelist Parish on a reilular ba$is during these lo11g v.rlnter months please contac:t !Mark: Slaga, South 102, 386-4100; Conflrmatlon-A.:p ril 26 BiShop Howard Hubb:at:'<l will administer the Sac1.\'ame11t of Confirmation in St. Jioln the Evangelist Church. Uni<>n College students are illwlteil too. IS SPONSORING A PHOTO CONTEST Open to all students, faculty and staff including photoclass students.- Separate catagories for color and black & white . . -, Prizes Courtesy of BERNS CAMERA STORE PEANUTS@ by Charles M·. Schulz I{OU A.N tr n..IAi STUPH\8LANKET! WJ.IAT AI<E '(OU GOING TO DO WJ.IEN YOU GROW Vf' ? WI-IAT WILL I{OV 170 WITI-I IT Ti-lEN\ IT 1 LL LOOK GREAT . WIT~ ·A TUXEDO!

CONCORD/ENS_/~. Februaty 5, 1!)87 Page 21 PERSONALS cOming .soon! ! To a dining hall near you - C·A·N~D-Y Q .. R• A .. M-M..:S!! Have you signed ,up for a T.D. Chi 'Tuck-In yet? No, well then hurry up. Signups end Fri .. , 2-6. Pink: is beautiful .and the Home-o's· are the best! Who said we couldn't repeat?. Way to go CHAMPION Home- a's! . Stop it David, don't spray <that uff . . s' '' st mmyeye ... Fish lord: Napolean is next! . --..;C<Jurageo:us Mary: Maybe it is not so bad to be a computer nerd? Thanks for . your help. ~ . · A refonned computer W1Z · Shellus- 'Beload now! In the city the big l:iig citY-! The new word is extravaganza. Love, . Fifi P.S. Prepare for l»lgel laun- ching! Jill, Who· was that wild.omasked dancer who · attacked us? Shane? Love, Woozer MB, HG . . . . . Look up m the sky, It's a b•!d, it's a plane, no, it'm a flymg . ducktruck. GS · . ManescheWitz Pla:yer ()f the · · Week. Jeff \Brickwall\ .Miller . . GS,JR Congratulations homeos and \Spuds'' Brown!'! You're · always No. 1 with liS -Homeo · Fans- Goodjob Chi broomb~llers ... but · WAY TO GO HOMEOS!t! . To Helene You are doing a great job as fire safety officer. Koeep up the d 'k!l goo wor .. . Tri~Delta Pledges: H0,pe you had a gl'eat. time on Saturday! Get psyched .for moxe f!IJl! Love 'Tile S1sters G. Firariraduratltldiduml! Miss ya! K. Miru Miru miru ... akan yo! Be an iihito. J'a! Nihon no1omodachi \W'a iclliban desu yo. You guys ar~ the best. Thanks for postpcJJning my birthday! C. Amy o ........ Hope your b'day was great-and get ps:ycbed for Olympics this spring! Adam-Roses are N!d, violets are blue, your article is amazing and you're pretty hot · too! I told you I'd llo it! Now, how about lWtch?! K. ~ ~ PATNO! ! ! The dog dies soon. -she would make a great sacrifice to. the sun god- Think about it! No more chewed up shoes!!! Mina, Good luck tomorrow. Knock those circuits dead. LovePe M.H. The P~za Pub Man is gone but he'll be back and he knows where you live~ ... Beware Happy birthday!·! ! Amy, Val and Cathy The sisters of Delta Gamma Happy 21st Cathy, Your ex-roomies. Signqps and information. about T.P. Chi 'Tuck-Ins located. at West and Old Chapel durmg lunch and dinner. Dealin ', Shufflin', ~oolin', Bubblin' - Who are Sp1ke and ·. Alice anyway? Your everalovin' Zoomin'. P.S. Hi Jarrunin' and ·, Steamin'. CATH, Michele V.P. you are so ·• Chako+Okonomiyaki - Mai beautiful Me . .Shu! Have a happy new official b l .... hd • Way to go Home-O's u.-\ ay. , 1 't Love Pc You ve gotta ove I Here's a ''Thank you\ to all the Home-0 fans who gave so much support! A toast to the broomball champion Home-O's: . -Cheeks, Fu, Poppa, Org, Hump, Asm, Will U, Master B, Big E, DL and KG. To,Paul's love kitten, you can · .drive us anytime. : TheStaff Yo Flounder, gotta title yet? Girls and guys, sign up for favorite person for a T.D. Chi Tuck ... In now until Fri. W. One more little sister makes 9! I'm psyched! .Love in O.C. and Pi Kappa Epsilon. K N. Your crescent sister has a little sister ... You're a \crescent aunt''! Let's get together soon! Love in Pi Kappa Epsilon K. ·woozer, Learn any new or faster dance moves Sat. night? Jill Two years in a row. Get psyched! Delta Gamma • Pledges will be selling candy grams Feb. 10-13 during lunch and dinner hours at West and · Old Chapel. GARY-We're expecting 2 purple roses on Valentine's Day. Love, US . Greg at Phi Delt-Thanks for your help; you're a real gen- tleman. M~B. Congrats I'm really proud. L.A.F.-G.D. Davie 0., Dav~ H, Andy Brown, Fred 1 Geoff, Dan, and Kevin- We're gonna miss you. Way to end it. Right I · Congratulations Nora and Dan The sisters of Delta Gamma Pam, It's been a great 3 mon- ths!! Happy Anniversary!! Love, Guess Who Saikodesu! Happy Valentine's Day To my favorite sailor, sc far . away, yet so close .in my thoughts and dreams. I will love you always and forever. signed \Your fruitcake\ Pete-The baby has been · kidnapped. Ransom: 3 pep- . · peroni pizzas and a diet cake. Squeaky. Azeleen and Cristina- Your creativity and art work ,is superflous. Only seniors know how to waste time so well! K. It's National Pajama Week - celebrate Sat. night - Love Boat -Be there. Hey guys, want the perfect gift for that special someone on Valentine's Day? Buy her a T.D. Chi Tuck-In. Only $1. FRESHMEN: Elect ROBIN PALLADINO as freshman rep.!!! Lori, Breakfast is a polysyllabic word, that's why I missed it. M.W. Polish Springs live! (More nap_pQ.y_ Without. enigm,as). 2 , A.l).i~9J1· •.. J;:c. ~ Yo}l-, ·£lf~,, ju,st • · · · · · · <· ' • ... • ' ·• Carlsbergs, please. _, ___ _ · ugly ... per~od. B)ue ~yoes. ...,_---------------~----------------~ Marty- . Shelly and I have nommated yo_u for the Teenage~ . of the Week Award. Keep smiling. - (Fifi) . . . P.S. Don't forget to take your vitamins! · . . Don't tbr~w eggplant at me! '~Wow''-Jodi . and January 25, 1987. Bella Regazza Anita, Grazie per Una deliciousa cena ultimite mercoledi! Ciao, Christina and Mana i' ·;---------~------- 'C is for cookie ~That's good enough for me . . But P is for Puffalump ·· · i.I love him, that's plain to se~. Don't forget circle K ~tentine's day flower sal-e-February 9-13 • in Old Chapel and West COllege. I . Scavy , thing Y!Vhen the : presidept of a sorority . doesn't I know' the differe11c:e between 1 butter and cream ekeese, but- we. love you any wa:y! · Yo Bone Crusher; You are the origi:nal LAX . GOD! ,Capt. Cocktail! Honey, Thanks for. the dl·, &lwuJ.der and the bear Thursd.ay. I don't .. think.) cguld. bav~ mad~, it · ·-. Witno~t you-. ·. Thanks . P.S. SQrry about tile CQffee stains~ The Great .. .,..._:;:. 4\ -- ~ . ·-. ' ... ~ ... ~ .. - .. .:· U .• -n.1on Strip-Off Gain Fame '. and a·· Dinnerfor2 at Fireside 1 Enter your Concordiensis comic-strip· to· by February ]Qth .. 5$:5!!iii!Si5!5i!!i$5!!5ii!!5i5'!!1i!. L 'Etoile Hair Design Student· Special .-1 ··-~Haircuts Regularly $18.00 Perms Regularly • . ... .... t. .. ··• Now $11.95 $55.00' Now $27.95 Featur.ing The~~-s~ Exclusivel;y Evening Appointments .. ~. . .- ()pen 7 Days A. Week - Walk-Ins Welcome ~~~~.:..'~'~''''~'~~ ...... ~~ .... ~,,~~~~~~~ ...... ~~::,·~,~~~~''''''''''''~ ~ WINTERFEST 1987 ~ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ~ • Winterfest Dinner ~ ~ • Vendomart Jewelry, Records, Etc. ~ ~ • Movie ''Pretty 1 n Pink\ ~ ' • Dutch Pipers, , ~- Garnet Minstrels Concert ~ ~ • Fraternity Parties ~ ~ • Scavenger Hunt ~ ' The Social coci'mittee presents; • Band ... ~ wrNTERFEST 1987 • Skiing At Willard ~ ' . And Much More. . . . . ~ ~~ . '''''''\\'\' '\\'''''''''''''''''''''''\''''''''''''''''

t :1. 'I '' Page 22 There are many sports in America which are followed fervently. Fans undergo a long, aggravating season of ups and downs, for the most part usually ending in frustration. However, there is one sport in America which is followed by many people, occurs once every four years and whose fans know little or nothing about what they are watching except .for the final score. This sport is yachting, specifically, The Americas CUp. A bit .of history is probably required to explain how the cup is named. More than a century ago America and England used to race yachts for bragging rights. For the majority of the time, England beat the U.S. In 1851 all of this changed. America won the race and dominated the event for the next 132 years up inti11983 when Australia dethroned the U.S. The Cup is named for the country that wins the Cup in back to back competitions. The reason for the big. h~ this re~r is that the Amer1ca .s Cup 1s m jeopardy of becoming the Australia's Cup. 1n 1983, the boat Australia II beat the U.S. rival, Stars and Stripes. TIUs led yacht enthusiasts to look for- ward to this year's competition. If Australia's boat, Kookaburra lll, were to win this year over Stars and Stripes, this would be the greatest blow to Am_eri~an Ski ... Continued from back page only Carlucci of RIT, who was on the Olympic Developmental team at this time last year. Despite the near perfect run by Hurcomb, the men's team was lodged in seventh place. With great determination Union's trio of Hurcomb, Mark Haughtcn '89, and Blake Henderson '89 climbed to a fourth place finish overall after the second run. Hurcomb was nosed out of second by a few hundredths of a second, but still came away with a third place individual medal out 1Jf ninety racers. Union heads to the Colgate Snow Bowl this weekend as they enter the stretch run for Eastern Championship bids. Four men's and four women's teams are invited to the championships from this Mideast Regional Conference. Both Union teams are currently in fourth place. CONCORDJE;NSJS. February 5, 1987 (!nncnt~itnsis · SPORTS N:OT IN THE BOX: • • • CoUege Showcase features 4 povt~erliou;e .felml · SCOR·E Boston's Beanpot Hockey Mark Zimmerman yachting in over a century. The America's Cup has been bolted to a wooden table inside a glass . case for decades at the New York Yacht Club. For the . competition, the Cup has been placed on a marble pedestal,. · bolted to a cement floor and is • situated behind bullet-proof glass. If someone were to touch the glass a nine foot steel shutter would cotne crashing down around the Cup. As you can see, this competition is not taken lightly. As of Tuesday, the U.S. holds a comfortable three to zero lead in the best of seven.series. In all likelihood, the U.S. will retain the right to call the cup the Americas Cup. This year's race has probably bad the most media coverage of any yacht race in history. ESPN, who took a gamble in 1983 by showing the seventh race live, agreed to show all the challenger and cup races live this year. ESPN bas spent a great deal of time and money on the Americas Cup and can probably legitimately claim tbat it has introduced 12-meter racing to millions. The only . problem with watching the races is that they start at 12:30 a.m. and last until about 3:30. ay JAY M. GROSSMAN Boston-February 2 The Beanpot-one of college hockey'$ finest regular season tournaments lived up to its expectations in the first round at the Boston Garden tonight. Northeastern defenseman Brian Dowd beat Harvard go.alie Dickie McEvoy at 6:20 of the overtime period to earn the win over a 15-1 team which is ranked second in the nation. In the second game, Boston Conference. This relegated the \dream game\ between Harvard and B.C. to the con- solation level at 6:15 next Monday at the Garden._ · The · Beanpot is a college hockey showcase to~ament for the bragging rights of Boston. These ·games have traditionally produced many upsets amongst the four teams since the inception of the tournament in 1953. B.U. has won the most Bean}>Ots of all (13) and is looking to repeat as Harvard goalie Dickie McEvoy stops a Northwestern forward in Di:v. I· Beanpot action. University registered the evening's second upset with a win over a highly touted Boston College team which is in first place in the Hockey East champs again this season. Excitement has been added to the tournament in recent years due to the fact that Harvard ha$ remained in the ECAC while . The Dutehmen held the high powered' Warrior attack in check allnight making very few B.C .. ,· B.U., and Northeastern elected to join the Hockey East four years ag(). The two rival conferences rarely cr0$s over to play each other. during the regular season. The Harvard-Northeast .. ern game proved to be the evening's thriller. With the school bands blaring fight songs from opposite ends of the sold out l:i.,OOO seat arena, Not:- theastern .found itself with a 4-2 lead and Slightly · over one minUte remaining on the time a. clock. Then the explosive 5 .Harvard team scored two goals ~ in the last minute to force the ~ extra session. Unfortunately for ~ the Crimson, a costly error by <.D the defense allowed Dowd to § whack an errant pass into the ~ net for the final tally. B.U. bad C() an easier time against a flat ~ RC. team. They jl$ped out to a z 5·1lead which was enough to th- - 0 >- Ul (!) ... .... :::l 0 u ~ .s:::. 0. wart a late B.C. rally, resulting in tile 6~3 final. Next week, the· seats will again be filled to watch two very exciting games. Anyone who can make the trip will surely be entertained bl: this outstanding brand of hockey. As the late B.C. coach John A. ''Sno()ks\ Kelley said, \It's not just an athletic must.· It's a social must. Everybody Who's anyoody in Boston will be there. Yon ean't be anyplace else· on the first Monday in February;\ - ' ••• ' • ! Nevertheless, Stars and Stripes is well on its way to securing the America's ·cup for at least another eight years and many sports. enthusiasts have fotllld yet another sport to follow. season :and extended his scoring streak to seven games. Nelson Said assisted on both goals also extending his scoring streak to seven, but Duane Joyce was held pointless to stop his streak at six. mistakes and only giving and 110t worry about Warriors Merrimack three power play on his doorstep as the defense op.portunities. O'Brien was did a great job ()f taking out outstanding in net for Union their men in front of the net. Bill Skaters ... Ccntinued from back page game giving up five goals on 12 shots and was replaced by Toby O'Brien who came in to kick out Merrimack tied the score at 12:29 of the second period and netted the winner at 6 :·33 of the third period. making 33 saves on 36 shots. Snow took it a little too far The Union defense corps was which resulted in a fighting. the real story as time and again penaltY: and a two game O'Brien could see the first shot . suspension. 2& of 29 shots and earn himself a start against Merrimack. The Dutchmen played host to the Merrimack Warriors on Saturday night and played what was probably their most disciplined game of the season but came away on the short end of a 3-2 score. The Warriors upped their Division II record to 16 and 1 with their only loss coming at ~ . the hands of Plattsburgh earlier g in the year. ro Merrimack took an early lead :,£ at 6: 04 of the first period but ~ Temush put the Dutchmen into ~ the lead, scoring his ninth ~ pcwer play goal of the season at ..c 19:04 of the first period and his c. tenth Just 40 seconds into the secon · period. Temush' goals were his 18th and 19th of the No. 21 Darren Stephens takes the puck away from Plattsburgh's Joey Ferras. Tlie skaters lost 8-4. SPORTSWEEK Thursday 2/5 ·Wednesday 2/11 THURSDAY 2/5 Women's Basketball vs. North Adams FRIDAY 2/6 Hockey at Bowdoin Women's Track/Capital District meet SATURDAY 2/7 Men's Basketball at Hamilton Hockey at Colby J.V. B.asketball at Green Mountain women's Swimming at Skidmore Men's Swimming at Hamilton Men's Track/Capital District Meet SUNDAY 2/8 J.V. Hockey vs. Mohawk Valley MONDAY2/9 J.V. Basketball vs. Oneonta TUESDAY 2/10 Men's Basketball at Hartwick J.V. Basketball at Albany Women's Swimming at St. Rose WEDNESDAY 2111· J. V. Hockey vs. Kent Women's Basketball vs. Hartwick Men's Swimming vs. Albany Women's Track/Union lnvy 7.:00 7:00 6:00 8:00 2:00 7:00 2:00 2:00 6:00 l :00 8:00 6:00 4:00 7:00 7:00 4!00 ,_ 5:90 ., The Dutchmen need six wins in tlleir next seven games. They now mllSt make the hike to Maine to play Bowdoin and C()lby. Hoops ••• Continued from back page 13-1 spurt. This scoring .spree was keyed by 6 points from Kurt Fox and 5 from Tom Beck. Union went on to post its s~ond road Victory ofthe season, 78-611. Kut1Fox led the Dutclunen with 26 points and 6 rebounds. He was followed by Tom Beck with 15 points anq 8 m~sists and Joe Romer and Neil Winawer who had 14 points -apiece.- .f j

Pagr 22 CONCORDIENSJS, Februan•5, 1987 There are many sports in America which are followed fervently. Fans undergo a long, aggravating season of ups and downs, for the most part usually ending in frustration. However, there is one sport in America which is followed by many people, occurs once every foW' years and whose fans know little or nothing about what they are watching except for the final score. This sport is yachting, specifically, The Americas Cup. A bit of history is probably required to explain how the cup is named. More than a century ago America and England used to race yachts for bragging rights. For the majority of the time, England beat the U.S. In 1851 all of this changed. America won the race and dominated the event for the next 132 years up inti11983 when Australia dethroned the U.S. The Cup is named for the country that wins the Cup in back to back competitions. The reason for the big h~ this year is that the America s Cup is in jeopardy of becoming the Australia's Cup. In 1983, the boat Australia II beat the U.S. rival, Stars and Stripes. This led yacht enthusiasts to look for- ward to this year's competition. If Australia's boat, Kookaburra III, were to win this year over Stars and Stripes, this would be the greatest blow to American Ski ... Continued from back page only Carlucci of RIT, who was on the Olympic Developmental team at this time last year. Despite the near perfect run by HW'comb, the men's team was lodged in seventh place. With great determination Union's trio of Hurcomb, Mark Haughton '89, and Blake Henderson '89 climbed to a fourth place finish overall after the second run. Hurcomb was nosed out of second by a few hundredths of a second, but still came away with a third place individual medal ()Ut of ninety racers. Union heads to the Colgate Snow Bowl this weekend as they enter the stretch run for Eastern Championship bids. Four men's and four women's teams are invited to the championships from this Mideast Regional Conference. Both Union teams are currently in fourth place. NOT IN THE BOX SCORE Mark zi,mmerman yachting in over a century. The America's Cup has been bolted to a wooden table inside a glass · case for decades at the New : York Yacht Club. For the . competition, the Cup has been placed on a marble pedestal, · bolted ta a cement floor and is situated behind bullet-proof glass. If someone were to touch the glass a nine foot steel shutter would come crashing down around the Cup. As you can see, this competition is not taken lightly. As of Tuesday, the U.S. holds a comfortable three to zero lead in the best of seven series. In all likelihood, the U.S. will retain the right to call the cup the Americas Cup. This year's race has probably had the most media coverage of any yacht race in history. ESPN, who took a gamble in 1983 by showing the seventh race live, agreed to show all the challenger and cup races live this year. ESPN has spent a great deal of time and money on the Americas Cup and can probably legitimately claim that it has introduced 12-meter racing to millions. The only problem with watching the races is thatthey start at 12:30 a.m. and last until about 3:30. Nevertheless, Stars and Stripes is well on its way to securing the America's Cup for at least another eight years and many sports . enthusiasts have found yet another sport to follow. Skaters ... Continued from back page game giving up five goals on 12 shots and was replaced by To by O'Brien who came in to kick out 26 of 29 shots and earn himself a start against Merrimack. The Dutchmen played host to the Merrimack Warriors on Saturday night and played what was probably their most disciplined game of the season but came away on the short end of a 3·2 score. The Warriors upped their Division II record to 16 and 1 with their only loss coming at the hands of Plattsburgh earlier in the year. Merrimack took an early lead at 6:04 of the first period but Temush put the Dutchmen into the lead, scoring his ninth power play goal of the season at 19:04 of the first period and his tenth Just 40 seconds into the secon period. Temush' goals were his 18th and 19th of the OA~.1::r Tuesday l/.29 • Wectnesday 2 HOCKEY UNION 4 UNION 2 Uf\UONM \' Ufilt0N78 UNlON 59 ;· U'NlONAS UNiON 56 Oinncnt~itn&is SPORTS • • • College Showcase ,features 4 powerhouse teams Boston's Bean,pot Hockey By JAY M. GROSSMAN Boston-February 2 The Beanpot-one of college hockey's finest regular season tournaments lived up to its expectations in the first round at the Boston Garden tonight. Northeastern defenseman Brian Dowd beat Harvard goalie Dickie McEvoy at 6:2Q of the overtime period to earn the win over a 15--1 team which is ranked second in the nation. In the second game, Boston Conference. This relegated the \dream game\ between Harvard and B.C. to the con~ solation level at 6: 15 neKt Monday at the Garden .. The Beanpot is a college hockey showcase tournament for the bragging rights of Boston. These games have traditionally produced many upsets amongst the four teams since the inception of the tournament in 1953. B.U. has won the most Beanpots of all ( 13) and is looking to repeat as Harvard goalie Dickie McEvoy stops a Northwestern forward in D iv. 1 Bean pot action. University registered the evening's second upset with a win over a highly touted Boston · College team which is in first place in the Hockey East !... season and extended his scoring streak to seven games. Nelson Sc:~id assisted on both goals also extending his scoring streak to seven, but Duane Joyce was held pointless to stop his streak at six. Merrimack tied the score at 12:29 of the second period and netted the winner at 6:33 of the third period. champs again this season. Excitement has been added to the tournament in recent years due to the fact that Harvard has remained in the ECAC while The Dutchmen held the high powered Warrior attack in check all night making very few mistakes and only giving Merrimack three power play op.portunities. O'Brien was outstanding in net for Union making 33 saves on 36 shots. The Union defense corps was the real story as time and again O'Brien could see the first shot (!) Cl. Cl. ~ :::,( <( > .0 0 .... 0 .s: Cl. ,~ No. 21 Darren Stephens takes the puck away from Plattsburgh's Joey Ferras. The skaters lost 8·4. SPORTSWEEK Thursday 2/5- Wednesday 2/11 THURSDAY 2/5 Women's Basketball vs. North Adams 7:00 FRIDAY2/6 Hockey at Bowdoin Women's Track/Capital District meet SATURDAY2/7 Men's Basketball at Hamilton Hockey at Colby J.V. Basketball at Green Mountain Women's Swimming at Skidmore Men's Swimming at Hamilton Men's Track/Capital District Meet SUNDAY2/8 J.V. Hockey vs. Mohawk Val.ley MONDAY2/9 J .V. Basketbal.l vs. Oneonta TUESDAY 2/10 Men's Basketball at Hartwick J.V. Basketball atAibany Women's Swimming at St. Rose WEDNESDAY 2/11 J.V. Hockeyvs. Kent Women's Basketball vs. Hartwick Men's Swimming vs. Albany Women's Track/Union lnvy 7:00 6:00 8:00 2:00 7:00 2:00 2:00 6:00 1:00 8:00 6:00 4:00 7:00 7:00 4:00 .5:()0 B.C.; B.U., and Northeastern elected to join the Hockey East four years ago. The two rival conferences rarely cross over to play each other . during the regular season. The Harvard-Northeast- ern game proved to be the evening's thriller. With the school bands blaring fight songs from opposite ends of the sold out 15,000 seat arena, Nor:- theastern found itself with a 4-2 lead and slightly over one minute remaining on the time ci. clock. Then the explosive ~ Harvard team scored two goals ~ in the last minute to force the ~ extra session. Unfort\Ulately for ~ the Crimson, a costly error by \ the defense allowed Dowd to ~ whack an errant pass into the )g net for the final tally. B.U. had m an easier time against a flat ~ B.C. team. They jumped out to a z 5-llead which was enough to th- - 0 >- Ill 2 1... :::> 0 u 0 - 0 .s: a. wart a late B.C. rally, resulting in the 6-3 final. NeKt week, the seats will again be filled t() watch two very exciting games. Anyone who can make the trip will surely be entertained by this outstanding brand of hockey. As the late B.C. coach John A. \Snooks\ Kelley said, \It's not just an athletic must. It's a social must. Everybody who's anybody in Boston will be there. You can't be anyplace else on the first Monday in February.\ and not worry about Warriors on his doorstep as the defense did a great job ()f taking out their men in front of the net. Bill Snow took it a little too far which resulted in a fighting penalty and a two game suspension. The Dutchmen need six wins in their next seven games. They now must make the hike to Maine to play Bowdoin and Colby. Hoops •.• Continued from back page 13-1 spurt. This scoring spree was keyed by 6 points from Kurt Fox and 5 from Tom Beck. Union went on to post its second road victory of the season, 78-68. Kurt Fox ledthe Dutchmen with 26 points and 6 rebounds. He was followed by Tom Beck with 15 points and 8 assists and Joe Romer and Neil Winawer who had 14 points apiece. .. 1 'l ' :I ' n l I

j CONCORDlENS/S, February 5. 1987 Page 23 ·arnncurhtensis · SPORTS Athlete of the Week ByOOUGLASLLOYD After a year o£ffrom the sport junior Chris Hurcomb has come back to leadthe Union men's ski team into the spotiight. Skiing, not a recently dominant sports team for Union, currently has the ability to become noticed with its successes thus far this season. ·Chris placed an out- stMdingtbirdout of90 raeers<in the Giant Slalom event. last weekend at tile West Point invitational Meet held on Hunter MoW1tain. . Last weekend;s race has been the latest result of Chris' comeback from last year's knee surgery, Which sidelined him from the slopes for the season. In previous races this year Chris recorded overall finishes of 5th and 9th place at the Syracuse Invy and the IthEJ.ca Invy; respectively. Fini$hing as well as Chris has this yem- seems to have .sparked the rest of the men's and women.'s teams as both are skiing at and allove the level of their op- position. . Chris, who lives in Rutland, VT, is. a brother at Sigma Chi and an industrial economics major. Chris did his high school.· skiing in Vermont at the Mount Saint Joseph's Academy, where he also showed his speed on the gridiron and was recruited by the Union football t.eam. After finishing out this willter term· in Schenectady, Chris plans to take to the slopes in Europe wllile on term abroad in Freiburg, W. Getmany. Continued good luck to the ski team and congratulations to .Utris for being chosen ~s this wEek's \Athlete of the Week.\ Chris Hurcomb \With a Perspective on.Sports \ is a colUmn that will attempt to put. · people and events into focus. Its purpose is to make you the reader, see, feel, and thmk. It will transport you to a scene, make some judgments and, hopefully, stir some reaction. Seeing people first, games second, in a new and 0 fresh angle, is this colwnn's ~ aim. ~ 100 .pennies to the dollar, 90 c:: feet from base to base, 12 c:: months in a year, 100 yards B from goal line to goal line, 60 > seconds in a minute, 9 men on ~ the baseball side, all of these o are common geometrical make .c a. ups of our life and times, or is it Mohler, Barker Lead Dutchme:n Runners pastimes? 100 pennies to the dollar is fine, right? You wouldn't go changing something that firmly set in your way of life, would you? :By TRACK TEAM Last Saturday, the Union College track teams competed ~· tQe. O'l,'R-ATAC open meet at the fieldhouse. As eXpected, the emphasis was on individual perfo~ances and there were certainly ®me fine ones. Led by double · winners Rob Mohlar and Jeff Barker, . and a sweep· iil the triple jump, many of the Dutcbmen had their best days to date. Mohlar, a senior, cruised to a £ow- second victory in the 1000 meters, clocking ~:32.1 to easily qualify for the state meet in that event. Mohlar also ~an a leg on the mile relay team, which won handily in-3:34.5. Jeff Barker ran another leg ofthe victorious relay, to which he added a resounding win .in the 500 meters (66.7 seconds), However, it just might have been the triple jump which provided the highlight of the meet,. as freshmen Mike Tremante and Clilp Silver, and junior Bill Craig took all three places in the event. Tremante leaped a personal best of 42 feet, 7¥4 inches to record his first collegiate win. Also having an excellent day was sophomore Steve Hayes, who contributed a second in the 50 meter dash (6.1 seconds). a close third in the 400 - meters (53.5 seconds), and a leg in the mile relay. Senior Mike Reed completed the mile .relay team, and he al$0 added a fine tfrne of 2:37 in the 1000 meters, taking fourth place behind Mohlar. Other notable performances· were tW\Ded.in by Wayne Kotary (1:12 in the 500 meters), and a rapi~ly improving Jim LeBron, who took fourth in tfie 1500 with a . time of 4:12. The Union women's team was · ·unable toproduee any wins' but · several . athletes still had outstandlng days. Lorie Anderson led the Lady Dutchmen contingent with second places in .the 50 meter hurdles (9.2 seconds), and the triple j~p, where she jwnped a very respectable 32 feet, 10 inches; Sherry Cargile and Patl'ice Prusko chipped in ~econd place times of 3:19.1 in the 1000 meters and 1:49 in the 500 meters, respectively. Jen· Lee provided the women with their other score with a quick 2:30 in the 800 meters, good enough for third. · This weekend, the team heads for . RPI to compete in the Capital. District meet. Once again, the meet s\lould produce some quality performances, ~s Vllion takes on Albany State, Then why would our national RPI, Siena and Hudson Valley, ·pastimes, specifically m:n()ng others, to detennine the· basketball, tinker with llest team in the Captial Region. . something as solidly entrenched Swimming Makes .white- ·water :By TOM: CHR.ISTOPHER 'rhe men's swim team put together a winniilg effort last Tlllll\sday in their meet ag~st Vassar. With only one diver elltered, a victory over their opponent was mathematically pcJSsible. Fortunately, stunning pErformances by all swimmers IO!lde this po~sibilit~ a reality! Andy Crossley broke Vassar's te!liil record in the 100 free with a time of 51.3. Lee Fraiji and Larry Schachter both churned · ·o11t personal bests in t,he 2MIM and 100 backstroke, respectively. As always, Mike Millet swam very well, with an exceptional performance in the amchor-leg of the 400 free relay. JEff Nobm cruised to strong firsts in the 200 free and 100 fly, and Tom Christopher, with a pErsonal best in tne 500, raced to victory in both the 1000 and 500 froee. in the game as the. way the game itself is played? The reason ~e gqverntng board of professional basketball and radical fans .alike are thinking . of changing the game is the thought that maybe, just maybe, the players have outgrown the game. VVhat do you mean outgrown the game? Basketball is more exciting than ever1 With ·the arrival into the league of whirling acrobats like Michael Jordan and the consistently inspiring play of old mainstays like Kareem Abdul-J abbar, there is no doubt basketball is on .an upswing. This has been evid~nced in the resurgence of America's \third sport\. Attendance records have been set for the last three years and TV ratings are way up. So why change the game? The basic geometry of the game. just doesn't seem to fit. The 10 foot high hoops and rectangular court measuring 94'x50' is coming under fire as a result of the increasing size, strength and quickness of the modern day player. Today's average professional basketball player is .6'7.2\ tall and weights 214 paunds. This size is in startling comparison with the 6'3\ 186-pound player of the 1947-48 season. A team without a 7-footer in the 80's is a team struggling to get out of the cellar. Last year there w~re 32 7-footers in the NBA. 6'10'' forwards and 6'7\ guards are commonplace around the league; The proportions of . basketball are bulging at the Hopes .of a second victory at Plattsburgh oil Saturday were d!:lshed by their three entries irlto the optional and requited diving. Consequently, massive .POints were racked up, and no matter how many firsts the 'l~ili~:;,::::ffi~l:t~:m·:::;:t·::::::::l:i[i'illlill Dutchmen accumulated, ''? · \Victory was out of their grasp. · .seams. Originally designed for pedple 5'7\ 125 pounds~ something . in the gEJ.me of basketball today has got to give way before the Manute Bols and Mark Eatons overrun, and overkill the game of basketball. Proposals Twice, however, hard•fought victories for Union were snatched away by a disponest t()llChapad in lane number 4. Tllerefore, despite strong SiVimming from · every team. member, and another personal best in the 1000 free for Tom, 1J11ion went down in defeat to a very tactful Plattsburgh team. Here are some abbreviated plans that have been proposed to the league, and one man's opinion on them. Proposal Nto. 1: raise the basket. Raising the basket has been the battle cry of many basketball radicals since the With a Perspective On Sports Andrew Miller 1950's. The theory stands that a higher .hoop will cause the extinction of dunking, force the big man to shoot a real shot, no gimmes, and bring the little man back into the game. A twelve-foot hoop has been proposed. Many, including Red Auerbach, feel the 12~foot hoop is a must. Auerbach admits that shooting percentages would drop, but this would make the big man even more important in respect to rebounding and passing. The raised hoop would resurrect the e~tinct point guard, putting mote emphasis on the outside shot and lane passing. Opinion: raising the hoop would take a lot away from the excitement o( the game. Dunks are great, they are highlight material, they are part of what fans come to see. Take away dunks and you take away fans. Proposal No. 2: Increase the siZe of the court. A larger coUrt would sup- posedly Qpen up the game and make the little guy more valuable. The proposed ex- pansion is from 94 'x50' to 100'x52'. There is not much you can say against this. Opening up the court means less congestion down low, and less congestion means less contact. If you like contact, seeing guys really go at it under the boards, then this spacial ch~ge is not for you. Opinion: For the rest of us who would like to see the em- phasis on bulk replaced with speed, talent and ability, and the return of the fast• break ball, this changeis one for the better. a-second Question Proposill No. 3: Widen the three-second lane or adopt the international lane. If you voted yes, on Proposal No. 2, then you will have no problem swallowing No. 3. If you said not() No. 2, move on to No. 4 and hold onto your hats. Opinion: For those of you who are still with us, a lane size change would be the perfect accoutrement to an overall court size change. It would make big guys learn how to dribble more than once, and give little guys a chance for some kind of rebound and more penetration. A wider and longer court with a proportionately wider and longer key gets a thumbs up from us radicals. Proposal No. 4 (the moment you've all been waiting for) Play with four man teams. How could they do that to us? Four man hoop is playground stuffwhen you can't find enough players. Well . before you gawk at the idea there is some validity to the argwnent, but not much. Thr thinking here is that a 4-man team will take away the im· .portance . of the dominant center, and return .basketball to its original intentions, whatever they may be. The .game would have the same feel, be less crowded and easier to officiate. Opinion : Although the idea is intriguing, it just doesn't seem right. What's basketball without ten guys, or gals, on the floor. Eight person basket ball deserves to stay where it is now being played, in high school girls hoop in Iowa. SUPPORT .UNION SPORTS t- ., ....

CONCORDIENSJS, Fehruary5, 1987 Pa~e23 ·Qtnntnr~iensis · SPORTS Athlete of the Week By DOUGLAS LLOYD After a year off from the sport junior Chris Hurcomb has come back to lead theUnion men's ski team into the $potlight. Skiing, not a recently dominan.t sports team for Union, currently has the ability to become noticed with its successes thus far this season. Chris placed an out- standing third out of 90 racers in the Giant Sialom event last weekend at the West Point Invitational Meet held on Hunter Mountain. Last weekend's race has been the latest result of Chris' comeback from last year's knee surgery, which sidelined him from the slopes for the season. In previous races this year Chris recorded overall finishes of 5th and 9th place at the Syracuse Invy and the Ithaca Invy, respectively. Finishing as well as Chris has this year seems to have sparked the rest of the men's and women's teams as both are skiing at and above the level of their op- position. Chris, who lives in Rutland, VT, is a brother at Sigma Chi and an industrial economics major. Chris did his high school · skiing in Vermont at the Mount Saint Joseph's Academy, where he also showed his speed on the gridiron and was recruited by the Union football team. After finishing ou.t this winter term in Schenectady, Chris plans to take to the slopes in Europe while on term abroad in Freiburg, W. Germany. Continued good luck to the ski team and congratulations to Chris for being chosen as Ibis week's \Athlete of the Week.\ Chris Hurcomb \With a Perspective onSports '' is a column tllat will attempt to put people and events into focus. Its purp9se is to make you the ree~der, see, feel, and th!nk. It will tr-ansport you to a scene, make some judgments and, hopefully,. stir some reactien. Seeing peeple f:irst, games second, in a new and fresh angle, is this column's aim. 100 pennies to the dollar, 90 feet from base to base, 12 c: months in a year, 100 yardS 8 from goal line to goal line, 60 >- seconds in a minute, 9 men on -g the baseball side, all of these o are common geometrical make .J:: o. ups of our life and times, or is it Mohlar, Barker Lead Dutchmen Runners pastimes? 1()0 pennies to the dollar is .fine, right? You wouldn't go changing something tllat finnly set in your way of life, would you? By TRACK TEAM Last Saturday, the Union College track teams competed in the OTR-ATAC open meet at the fieldhouse. As expected, the emphasis was on individual performances and there were certainly some fine ones. Led by d()Uble · winners Rob Mohlar and Jeff Barker, and a sweep- in the triple jwnp, many of the Dutchmen had their best days to date. Mohlar, a senior, cruised to a four second victory in the 1000 meters, clocking 2:32.1 to easily qualify for the state meet in that event. Mohlar also ran a leg on the mile relay team, which won handily in 3:34.5. Jeff Barker r~ another leg of the victorious relay, to which he added a resounding win in the 500 meters (68.7 seconds). However, it just might have been the triple jump which provided the highlight of the meet, as freshmen Mike Tremante and Chip Silver, and junior Bill Craig took all three places in the event. Tremante leaped a personal best of 42 feet, 7'14 inches to record his first collegiate win. Also having an excellent day was sophomore Steve Hayes, who contributed a second in the 50 meter dash (6.1 seconds), a close third in the 400 meters (53.5 seconds), and a leg in the mile relay. Senior Mike Reed completed the mile relay team, and he also added a fine time of 2:37 in the 1000 meters, taking fourth place behind Mohlar. Other notable perfonnances were turned in by Wayne Kotary (1:12 in the 500 meters), and a rapidly improving Jim LeBrou, who took fourth in the 1500 with a time of 4: 12. The Union women's team was unable to produce any wins, but several . athletes still had outstand,lng days. Lorie Anderson led the Lady Dutchmen contingent with second places in the 50 meter hurdles (9.2 seconds), and the triple jump, where she jumped a very ·respectable 32 feet, 10 inches. Sherry Cargile and Patrice Prusko chipped in second place times of 3:19.1 in the 1000 meters and 1:49 in the 500 meters, respectively. Jen Lee provided the women with their other score with a quick 2:30 in the 800 meters, good enough for third. This weekend, the team heads for RPI to compete in the Capital District meet. Once again, the meet should produce some quality performances, as Union takes on Albany State, RPI, Siena and Hudson Valley, among others, to determine the · best team in the Captial Regi()n. Swimming Makes White- Water By TOM CHRISTOPHER The men's swim team put together a winning effort last Thursday in their meet against Vassar. With only one diver entered, a victory over their opponent was mathematlcally possible. Fortunately, stuniLing performances by all swimmers made this po~sibility a reality! Andy Crossley broke Vas::~ar's team record in the 100 free with a time of 51.3. Lee Fraijl and Larry Schachter both chlll'ned aut personal bests in the 200IM and 100 backstl1()ke, respectively. As always, Mike Millet swam very well, with an exceptional performance iJl, the anchor-leg of the 400 free relay. Jeff Nolan cruised to strong firsts in the 200 free and 1()() fly, and Tom Christopher, with a personal best in the 500, raeed to victory in both the 1000 and 500 free. Hopes of a second victory- at Plattsburgh on Saturday were dashed by their three e11tries into the optional and reqllired diving. Consequently, massive points were racked up, aad no matter how many firsts the Dutchmen accumulated, victory was out of their grasp. Twice, however, hard-fought victories for Union ~ere snatched away by a disho11est touch-pad in lane number 4. Therefore., despite strong swimming from every te.am member, and another perS()nal best in the 1000 free for '1om, Union went down in defeat to a very tactful Plattsburgh tEam. Then why would our national pastimes., specificelly basketball, tinker with something as.solidly entrenched in the game as the. way the game itself is played? The reason ~he g~verning board of professional basketball and radical fans alike are thinking of changing the game is the thought that maybe, just maybe, the players have outgrown the game. What do y()tl mean outgrown the game? Basketball is more exciting thllll ever 1 With the arrival into the league of whirling acr()bats like Micbael Jordan and the consistently inspiring pla:y of ()ld mainstays like Kareern Abdul-Jabbar, there is no doubt basketball is on an upswi.Jlg. This has been evidenced in the resurgence of America's ''third sport''. Attendance records have been set for the last three years and TV ratings are way up. So why change the game? The basic geometry .of the game just doesn't seem to fit. The 10 foot high hoops and rectangular court measuring 94'x50' is corning under fire as a result of the increasing size, strength and quickness of tile modern day player. Today's average professional basketball player is 6'7 .2\ tall and weights 214 pounds. This size is in startling comparison with the 6'3\ 186-pound player of the 1947-4$ season. A team without a 7-footer in the 80's is a team struggling to get out of the cellar. Last yea!:\ there WliJre 32 7-footers in the NBA. 6'HJ'' forwards and 6'7\ guards are commonpla(!e around the league. The proportions of basketball are bulging at the seams. Originally designed for people 5'7'', 125 pounds, something in the game of basketball tooay has got to give way before .the Manute Bols and Mark Eato11s overrun, and overkill the game of basketbalL Proposals Here are some abbreviated plans that have been propcsed to the leagtle, and one man.' s opinion on them. Proposal Nto. 1: raise the basket. Raising the basket has been the battle cry of many basketball radicals since the With a Perspective On Sports Andrew Miller 1950's. The theory stands that a higher hoop will cause the extinction of dllrtking, force the big man to sb!lot a real shot, no gimmes, ancli bring the little man back int() the game. A twelve.:f()()t hoop has been proposed. :Maay, including Red Auerbach, feel the 12afoot hoop is a must. AuErbach admits that shooting percentages would drop, but this would make the big man evellm()re important in respect t() rebounding and passing. The raised hoop would resurrect tlle extinct point guard, putting .more emphasis on the outside shot and lane passing. Opinion: raising the hoop would take a lot away from the excitement of the game. Dunks are great, they are highlight material, they are part of what fans come t() see. Take away dWlks and yoll te~ke away fans. Proposal No.2: Increase the size of the C()lllt. A larger com would sup- posedly ope11 U() the game and make the little guy more valuable. The proposed ex- pansion is fr.om 94'x50' to 100'x52'. Thei:e is not much you can say againstt.his. Opening up the court mearlS less congestion down low, an[J less congestion means less eontact. If you like contact, seeing g11ys really go at it under the ~ards, then this spacial chan~:Je is not for you. Opinion: Ii•or the rest of us who would like to see the em- phasis on bulk replaced with speed, talent a11d ability, and the return of the fast-break ball, this change is one for the better. 3-8eco:rul Q11estion Proposc::.l N'o. 3: Widen the three-secon~ 1ane or adopt the international !f:lnE. If you voted yes on Proposal No. 2, then :you will have no problem swallowing No. 3. If you said no t() N(). 2, move on to No. 4 and hold ()nto your hats. Opinion: F()r those of you who are still with us, a lane size change would be the perfect accoutrement to an overall court size change. It would make big guys learn how to dribble more than once, and give little guys a chance for some kind of reb<!Wid and more penetration. A Vlider and longer court with Cl proportionately wider and lmger key gets a thumbs up from as radicals. Proposal 'N'o. 4 (the moment you've all bee!l waiting for) Play with four man teams. How could tlley do that to us? Four man hoop is playground staff when you can't find enough players. Well before you gawk at the idea there is some validity to the argument, })ut not much. The thinking herE ls that a 4-man team will take away the im- portance of the dominant center, and return basketball to its original inte11tions, whatever they may be. The game would have the same feel, be less crowded and,easier to officiate. Opinion: ~ltbough the idea is intriguing, it just doesn't seem right. What'sbask:etball without ten guys, or gals, on the floor. Eight person ba~k~tball deserves to star where 1t 1s now being played, .in high school girls hoop irJ Iowa. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS

\ ' ' - CONCORDIENSIS, F~bruary 5, 1987 defe11t Kings Poin1 See story ~elow Dutehmen Skiers Take to .th~ Slopes see story below: February 5, 1987 lose home games to Plattsburgh, Merrimack Cagers Split Road Games Icemen Thrash Williams :By GAVIN MORTON . cut the lead to three. But just when it looked like the Dut- chmen were going to cut the_ lead to two with Huntington's shot grazing the outside of the post, Bunyon struck again and sealed Plattsburgh's 18th win in a row with a goal with only seconds left in the second period. ByMARKVANBUREN During the course of the past week, the Dutchmen basket ball team split a pair of road game decisions. Last Thursday they lost to Williams College, 68-64, while on Saturday they beat the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, 78-58. Union got off to 8J1 extremely slow start in the first half as Williams opened up a 12-6 lead, seven minutes into the game on a Henry Jones lay~up. Five minutes later, at the 7:58 mark, Williams led by seven points, 16- 9. An ensuing 10-6 spurt, keyed by 4 points from Dave Morrison, upped the Williams advantage to eleven, 26-15, witll4:35 to play in the first half. The Eplunen increased their lead to 32-17 as the period came to an end. Union, which shot a horrid 22 percent from the field and was outreoounded 29-19 in the first half, was surprisingly not out of the contest by any means. A liHI rWl, aided by six points from Doug GJ;egory and four from Neil Winawer, to open the se@nd pe~od, lluned Union to .... Q) Cl. a. ~. ~ .;;: >- 0 o· ..... 0 t:: a. witllm seven points, 40-a:l, with over 15 minutes still to play in the contest. The Dutchmen stayecl close for the next ten minlltes of the half, finally closirng to within five, 57-52, on a Tom Beck 3-pointer with 5:17 showing on the clock. Joe Romer's 3-point play l:Ulater, tied the score at 57; and with 3:07 remaining, the game was deadJIJcked 59-59 thanks to a NeilWinawer basket. However, 5 str:aight Williams' points put the Epbmen ahead 64-59, with just over ()ne minute to play. ·From here, they held on to give the D11tchmen their 6th setback of the ~ellS()n. Union was led by Kurt Fox. with 17 points and 10 reoomds. Doug Gregory (13 points, 7 rebounds), Joe Romer (11 PCJints,8rebQunds) andTom Beck (10 points, 10 assists) all add~ to the Union cause. Ott Saturday the Dutelunen were looking to snap a 3 .. game road losing streak ·as they tra\lelled t() King's Point. Once agalm, Union got off to its custiJmary slow beginning. The Mereh:ant Marine Academy led 9-6 at the 15:54 mark wllen Jim Dutchmen action vs. SaJnt Lawrence last Week. No. 32 Doug Gregory lays' the t>a II up to give the team two early points. Leskinoviteh drove the lane for a basket. They were still ahead by three points, 13-10, with 12:16 left as Kevin D' Arcy hit a 10- foot faU·away jumper. Forty- one seconds later, following two Joe Romer jumpshots, Union was on top 14·13. A pair of free throws by Kurt Fox gave Union a 16-13lead. The Mariners came back with eight unanswered points to takea 21-16 lead atthe 8:33 mark. They upped their advantage to seven points! 31- 24, with 4:45 to play in the half. The Dutchmen countered by scoring 8· ()f the game's next 10 points (with six of them coming from. Neil Winawer), to pull within one, 33-32, with 3:03 showing on the clock. The Mariners then proceeded to tally six striagbl points to in- crea$e their margin to 39-32, before .tling for a as.;a4lead at the half. When Kurt Fox: hit a 7•foot jumper just 1 :24 ihto the second period, Union had tied the score 41-41. However, the Merchant Marine A~ademy grabbed the lead back with three straight baskets, and with 11 :·50 left to play, held.tb.e biggest lead of the game, 55-1'1. Four minutes later the score was knotted at 57. From here, the lead see-sawed back and forth, until at the 3:46 mark, the Dutchmen turned a 6fi..65o tie into a 7~6 game with a Continued on page 22, col. 5 The 'Skating Dutchmen capped off a th~ee game homestand by defeating the Williams Ephmen by a score ~f 64 .. Two early goals by Nelson Said and Guy Logan gave the Dut<:hmen the lead. Ricky . Rockett scored his first goal of , the season and Duane Joyce, · · D~vld Appleby, and Marc · Goguen tallies enabled Union to hold off a late Epllmen rally. Stroug performances were :put in byjunior goalie Toby 0'.1Jr1en and Ephmen netminder Mark Morrison. Union's record iS 6-9 ECA.C, 6-12 overall. A week ago Tuesday, the Dutchmen play~a Plattsburgh for tile second time this y~r and lost 8-4. The Cardinals got off to a lightning quick start, scoring just .fifteen seconds into the game and didnyt stop until they had built a 541 lead with still over six minutes left in the first period. Union finally got onthe board with Gary Temush's 17th goal of the season after four ·minutes had .gone by in the second period. ·Chris Huntington's power play goal four minutes later cut the lead to 5-2. Jeff Bunyan of Plattsburgh,· scored one. of his three goats shortly ·· after to gain. back the four goal lead. Rookies Dan Gould and Mark Goguen went to work and it paid off ill a . shorl:·handed sit11ation as GoUld once again Duane Joyce scoreCI-for the Dutclpnen early in the third but the nuniber one ranked Platt:. sburgh team wasn't going. to give in and finiShed the scor~ng halfway through · the final frame. Ron Kin~()~ started the Continued on page 2~, col. 2 HeC!d Coach Charlie Morrison • . • Robin Raff - top woman s•ier, Hurcomb fGt the men Skiers Finish Strong At Army l·nvy. By JIM SCHAEFER Tile Union College ski team enjoyed its 'finest hOur' to date this past weekend when the men's and women's teams raced to a fourth and second place finis. ll res.p~iv. ely a.t the West Point InVItatiOnal held at Hunter Meiuntain. Both teams were aided by spectacular performances in Sunday's giant slalom eveot. B<nh teams bounced back strong from Wtinspitlng per- formances the previous weekend at the Ithaca Invitati.ona 1. Union limped home with only a sixth place finish by the women and an eighth place finish by the men in that meet. Robin Raff '89 was Union's bright spot for the day fini.sbing eighth in the women's field. of 50 racers. S1111day was a crisp and sunny day at Hunter Mountain, perhaps a foreshadowing of thirlgs to come. The course was steep and wide open providing for some high s~d fmisbes in the giant slalom. The women started the day on a high note by finishing the first run in second place behind nationally ranked Syracuse and only a second ahead of perennial powers Anny and Colgate. In the af- ternoon, Syracuse's third skier fell out of the course in one of m~,Uty hair-raising crashes of the day. Union's skiers, un· daunted, all improved on their first runs and after some close scrutinizing overtimes, found they had beaten A~y .by a half second to win the f1rst race ever in. the team's history. Alison Pallotta '90, shaking ·off a disappointing race the previous day, led the women with a sixth place finish. All of UIJion's women, Pallotta, . Celia Mann . '88, and Erin Sheehan '89 finished in the top half of the 50 member field. Though Sunday's triumph did not eQ~:tble Union to edge out Army for first place overall, it did place them second and helped the team gain mo;nenturn in their «''tive to an Eastern Championship bid. Union,s success did not end there,. however, as Chris Hurcomb '88, once again turned In a spectacular performance. ''The Big Guy's\ first run turned some heads as he finished in second place behind Continued oil page 22, col. :f ~

Page 24 CONCORDIENSJS, February 5, 1987 .... QJ c. c. l'1l ~ <2: > ..0 0 0 .s::: c. • • It defeat Kings Point See story below Dutchmen Skiers Take to the Slopes February 5, 1987 See story below. 0 tfJ .... QJ Ol s: s: 0 u > ..0 0 +- 0 .s::: c. lose home ga.mes to Plattsburgh, Merrimack Cagers Split Road Games Icemen Thrash Williams By GAVIN MORTON cut the lead to three. But just when it looked like the Dut- chmen were going to cut the lead to two with Huntington's shot grazing the outside of the post, Bunyon struck again and sealed Plattsburgh's 18th win in a row with a goal with only seconds left in the second period. By MARK VAN BUREN During the course of the past week, the Dutchmen basket ball team split a pair of road game decisions. Last Thursday they lost to Williams College, 68-64, while on Saturday they beat the Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, 78-58. Union got off to an extremely slow start in the first half as Williams opened up a 12-6 lead, seven minutes into the game on a Henry Jones lay-up. Five minutes later, at the 7:58 mark, Williams led by seven points, l fi- 9. An ensuing 1o-6 spurt, k~yed by 4 points from Dave Mrrrison, upped the Williams l<.dvantage to eleven, 26·15, with4:35to play in the first half. The Eplunen increased their lead to 32-17 as the period came to an end. Union, which shot a horrid 22 percent from the field and was outrebounded 29-19 in the first half, was surprisingly not out of the contest by any means. A 16--8 run, aided by six points from Doug Gregory and four from Neil Winawer, to open the second period, pulled Union to ... Q) a. a. Ill '!£ <1 >- .0 0 0 .c a. within seven points, 40-33, with over 15 minutes still to play in the contest. The Dutchmen stayed close for the next ten minutes of the half, finally closing to within five, 57-52, on a Tom Beck 3-pointer with 5: 17 showing on the clock. Joe Romer's 3-point play 1 : lllater, tied the score at 57; and with 3:07 remaining, the game was deadlocked 59-59 thanks to a Neil Winawer basket. However, 5 straight Williams' points put the Ephmen ahead 64-59, with just over one minute to play. From here, they held on to give the Dutchmen their 6th setback of the season. Union was led by Kurt Fox with 17 points and 10 rebounds. Doug Gregory (13 points, 7 rebounds), Joe Romer (11 points, 8 rebounds) and Tom Beck (10 points, 10 assists) all added to the Union cause. On Saturday the Dutchmen were looking to snap a 3-game road losing streak as they travelled to King's Point. Once again, Union got off to its customary slow beginning. The Merchant Marine Academy led 9-6 at the 15:54 mark when Jim Dutchmen action vs. Saint Lawrence last week. No. 32 Doug Gregory lays the ball up togivettleteam two early points. Leskinovitch drove the lane for a basket. They were still ahead bythree points, 13-10, with 12:16 left as Kevin D' Arcy hit a 10- foot fall-away jumper. Forty- one seconds later, following two Joe Romer jumpshots, Union was on top 14-13. A pair of free throws by Kurt Fox gave Union a 16-13lead. The Mariners came back with eight unanswered points to take a 21·16 lead at the 8:33 mark. They upped their advantage to seven points, 31· 24, with 4:45 to play in the half. The Dutchmen countered by scoring 8 of the game's next 10 points (with six of them coming from Neil Winawer), to pull within one, 33-32, with 3: 03 showing on tbe clock. The Mariners then proceeded to tally six striagbt points to in- crease their margin to 39-32, before settling for a 39-34 lead at the half. When Kurt Fox hit a 7-foot jumper just 1:24 into the second period, Union had tied the score 41-41. However, the Merchant Marine Academy grabbed the lead back with three straight baskets, and with 11:50 left to play, held the 'biggest lead of the game, 55-47. Four minutes later the score was knotted at 57. From here, the lead see-sawed back and forth, until at the 3:46 mark, the Dutchmen turned a 65-4>5 tie into a 711-66 game with a Continued on page 22, col. 5 The Skating Dutchmen capped off a three game homestand by defeating the Williams Ephmen by a score of 6-4. Two early goals by Nelson Said and Guy Logan gave the Dutchmen the lead. Ricky Rockett scored his first goal of the season and Duane Joyce, Darid App~by, and Mare Goguen tallies enabled Union to hold off a late Ephmen rally. Strong performances were put in by junior goalie Toby O'Brien and Ephmen netminder Mark Morrison. Union's record is 6-9 ECAC, 6-12 overall. A week ago Tuesday, the Dutchmen played Plattsburgh for the second time this year and lost 8-4. The Cardinals got off to a lightning quick start, scoring just fifteen seconds into the game and didn't stop until they had built a ~ lead with still over six minutes left in the first period. Union finally got on the board with Gary Temush's 17th goal of the season after four minutes had gone by in the second period. Chris Huntington's power play goal four minutes later cut the lead to 5-2. Jeff Bunyon of Plattsburgh, scored one of his three goals shortly after to gain back the four goal lead. Rookies Dan Gould and Mark Goguen went to work and it paid off in a short-handed situation as Gould once again Duane Joyce scored for the Dutchmen early in the third but the nwnber one ranked Platt- sburgh team wasn't going to give in and finished the scoring halfway through the final frame. Ron Kii!ghorn started the Continued on page 22, col. 2 Head Coach Charlie Morrison 0 0 .s: Q. a UJ • • • Robin RaH - top woman skier, Hurcomb for the men Skiers Finish Strong At Army lnvy. By JIM SCHAEFER The Union College ski team enjoyed its 'finest hour' to date this past weekend when the men's and women's teams raced to a fourth and second place finish respectively at the West Point Invitational held at Hunter Mountain. Both teams were aided by spectacular performances in Sunday's giant slalom event. Both teams bounced back strong from uninspiring per· formances the previous weekend at the Ithaca Invitational. Union limped home with only a sixth place finish by the women and an eighth place finish by the men in that meet. Robin Raff '89 was Union's bright spot for the day finishing eighth in the women's field of 50 racers. Sunday was a crisp and sunny day at Hunter Mountain, perhaps a foreshadowing of things to come. The course was steep and wide open providing for some high speed fmishes in the giant slalom. The women started the day on a high note by finishing the first run in second place behind nationally ranked Syracuse and only a second ahead of perennial powers Anny and Colgate. In the af- ternoon, Syracuse's third skier fell out of the course in one of many hair-raising crashes of the day. Union's skiers, un- daunted, all improved on their first runs and after some close scrutinizing overtimes, found they had beaten Army by a half second to win the first race ever in the team's history. Alison Pallotta '90, shaking off a disappointing race the previous day, led the women with a sixth place finish. All of Union's women, Pallotta, Celia Mann '88, and Erin Sheehan '89 finished in the top half of the 50 member field. Though Sunday's triumph did not enable Union to edge out Anny for first place overall, it did place them second and helped the team gam momentum in their drive to an Eastern Championship bid. Union's success did not end there, however, as Chris Hurcomb '88, once again turned in a spectacular performance. \The Big Guy's\ first run turned some heads as he finished in second place behind Continued on page Z2, col. 1 ' !l 1, tl I: ,. '1 I i .'I i

,. CXVI, No~ 1:5. .t: :': E ., ltl u u Q,) ~ !r! > .c 0 b .t: c. ' I Febr~ary 12,1987 Sigma Phi Faces Disciplinary Action After Confiscation of Mariiuana Decisions Pending Further Meetings Tommorow~ · By DAVIDGULLIVER AccQmpanied by frat~mity president Kyle Peck, Deans Joseph Marnmola and Robert Massa and a campus security officer entered Sigma Phi at 10:30 a.m. Thursday, February 5 and removed about three dozen marijuana plants. Concordlensls. In response to the rumor~ circulating on campus, however, one brother cautioned, \Don't believe everything you hear.\ So far there has been no action taken in reference to the house building and no one has been arrested. fraternity house, and, with the security officer, descended to the basement. Behind a makeshift door near the boilers, they found two dozen plants in various stages of maturity, up to six feet in height, and another dozen seedlings. The plants were t))en removed by the security officer and the deans. \. • • obviously the amount Dean Mammola commented was not consistent with February 6, \obviously the . personal consumption.\ amoWit was not. consistent with The Alpha Chapter of the Sigma Phi Fraternity House faces disciplinary action.· According to Dean of Students Joseph Mamm()la, the College was informed of the presence of \a significant amount of marijuana growing in Sigma Phi fraternity. The marijuana was turned over to the College by the pre$ident of the house after he was confronted With the informatioiJ (.by Deans Mam,. mola and Massa). The plants were then removed by campus .security for disposal. Dean of Students · personal consumption.\ Joseph.Maromola · Though the deans' office has -------------- . ....- not (as of this writing Tuesday R.A. System Changes To Accomodate Student Breaks According to Dean Mammola nigbt) reached a decision, Dean and the incident report, Peck · Mammola commented, \It is a was summoned to the deans' serious matter. It is· an illegal office, w.bere be was told -of the -actiVity, on college property, information the College conducted in a fraternity house received. Peck and tbe deans and will require appropriate ByJ()NCOHN The new RA system this year has been a success so far. One hundred stud~nts turn~d out for tbe initial. -me~mg·. ten more ttl~ lcist ·yeai?s first ·m~mg.· Out of. those one hllndred, eighty-five people returned tbe applications, approximately fift~n mo.re than last year, This past. fall, one hlUldred. people took the fall term abroad, sixty took. the winter tenn abroad and fifty Will f-ake the ~ring term aw~y from Schenectady. Due to the (act that forty ·percent of the jwrl(}r class tak-es· a term abroad -on average, the M system needed to be modified to accomodate for these people. The result formulated· is to allow people who take a tenn abroad in the fall to come back in the wmter as an RA. The adjustment WB..S seen :as especially appropriate at Union, because the long winter break provided a \natural breakto introduce new RA's'', said Dean Wood of . Residence Life David Wood. In addition, people who take a wfu.ter term off can be RA's in the fall. When they return in the spring, they would however, retlirn as regular residents. Dean Wood said \it seems difficult for a person to come back as an RA, in the spring and enjoy a positive experience with a new floor fQr the remainding ten weeks\. The decision· also took into acco'ilnt the effect spring has on students as ·well , as fa_pulty and stf3ff. · Referring ta possible . · left immediately for the action by the college.'' disciplinary action, Dean l'?.lammola stated; ''The .k'llatter • Th~ school hopes thl\t- the~ . J$ mill under review.\ Dean · exr~Pr:ience willbe a positive one. _ l\f·~·$C:1l.,.., , Jn .. · t.er .. \View .. e.d. e:ver.~ fofin people: 'F'ot tms comm··-· ~i~ther. :of' th~ fraternity · year bei,hg an RA wUl .p~y {/ffi. ' February 9 and '10; the deans , eighty-five- r>ercentof the room plan to discuss the interviews .. fee, about $2200 per year, · 8$- · arid to meet tomorrow with · well as $100 food. credit. Being a • officers of the national and head RA will pay full room &{ld . alumni office of the fraternity .Alumni . Gym O:pening . Cerem.onies Tom,orrow · board, about $4100 per year. :W . · corporati.on officers, who · · 9rder to be appointed a head . requested a meeting after RA, a person must' show strong • learning of the incident. Picture Tour Inside By CHRISTINEHONG \leadership· as well as good Several members of the interpersonal and com- fraternity have refused to Tomorrow afternoon, the inaugural celebration of the renovated Alumni Gym Wijl mark the official induction of the latest-addition to the Union College campus. The ceremony, which will begin 12:30 p.m. at the North Entrance of the complex, will conunence with the traditional ribbon cutting followed by guided tours of the · . munication skills. discus.s the incident with Student Fo.rum Proposes ••cam,pus Grounds Committee'' , gym, an inaugural swim, and ' ·open-campus u.se. The opening of the Alumni Gym was planned by a com· mittee which was headed by By R. REED WHIDDEN · The Student Forum is working on a way in which to help out both the students with their complaint:; and the Physical Plant. Because the forum has noticed many · complaints about problems not . being corrected and much vandalism on campus, they have decided to fonn a com· mittee to focus on these problems. Sometimes the maintenance problems around campus never seem to be taken care of. Every morning the sinks are clogged 'or you always seem to be sliding to classes on ice or someone has spray-painted a wall again. The respOnsible student would go to someone and make these problems . known. Unfo1·· · tunately, this is not always the case. This coiiUllittee; the Campus Grounds Committee, would act as a liasion between the two. If a student does not know to , whom to go, or if.the student is, Vice-President Thomas problem may go unnoticed for . D'Andrea. He said ''The idea weeks. Many times the Physical was to have some kind of formal Plant receives so many com- ceremony indicating this grand plaints it is hard for them to addition to the Union College decide which ones to handle campus as well as to make it first. brief and have it appeal to the If there is a r.roblem that a student body, primarily. We student lmows o , he or she may also wanted to be able to go to the committe~ and acknowledge some of those channel the complaint through 1 involved in the planning and it to the Physical Plant. . The committee would then take these complaints to · meetings between itself, Dean Mammola, and someone from the plant. Thesemeetings·would be conducted ·every two weeks. Perhaps the eyes of 2,000 would more easily spot building of the gym, for example, the contractors and the architect.\ 12.:30 p.m. · I ·4p.m. 4:30.p.m. PROGRAM Ribbon Cutting Entrance Foyer · Tours of the Gymnasium Inaugural Swim President John Morris 4:45 • II p.m. Open for Campus Use Refreshments wiil be served. The first event planned, which is the ribbon cutting ceremony, will take .place on the concourse level and will probably last no longer than 15 minutes. It wlll include the participation of the President of Sweet Associates, Robert Fortune, Student Forum President Steve Moss '87, Vice- Presidents D'Andrea and Continued on page 3 . for some reason; too in~ timidated to go to someone and report the problem, that · problems arow!d campus than only the few eyes of · the Physical Plant. Hopefully, as well as solving more main- tenance problems, this will promote campus awareness and make everyone a little more proud· and happy to live here. The forum is looking for four able bodies to work on the committee. I£ anyone is in- terested contact anyone on the Student Forwn. Get involved, see that the maintenance problems you find be taken care . of. A refreshing view of the new olympic·sized pool comple1e and ready for the Alumni Gym opening tomorrow.

tj I: ,. 'I ' l !I j The Alpha Chapter of the Sigma Phi Fraternity House faces disciplinary- a ctior:l. R.A. System Changes To A~~•modate Student Break.s ByJCNCOHN The new RA.. system this year has been a suoecess so far. One hundred stude11ts turned out for the initial meeting, ten more than last year's first meeting. Out of those one hundred, eighty-five people returned the applications, approximately fifteen more t:ilan last year. spring has on students as well as faculty and staff. The scno()l hopes that th.e RA experience will be a positive ene for- all people. For this coining year being an RA will pay ·for eighty-five percent of tlle room fee, about $2200 per year,. as well as $100 food credit. Being a head RA will pay full ro()m and board, about $4100 per year. In order to be appointed a head RA, a person must show strong \leadership as well as good interpersonal and com- munication skills. lege 1877 February 12, 1987 Sigma Phi Faces Disciplinary Action After Confiscation of Mariiuana Decisions Pending Further Meetings Tommorow~ · By DAVID GULLIVER Accompanied by fraternity president Kyle Peck, Deans Joseph Mammola and Robert Massa and a campus security officer entered Sigma Phi at 10:30 a.m. Thursday, February 5 and removed about three dozen marijuana plants. According to Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, the College was informed of the presence of \a significant amount of marijuana growing in Sigma Phi fraternity. The marijuana was turned over to the College by the president of the house after he was confronted with the information (by Deans Mam- mola and Massa). The plants were then removed by campus security for disposal. Referring to possible disciplinary action, Dean Mammola stated, ''The matter is still under review.\ Dean Ma.ss.a . interviewed every brother of the fraternity February 9 and 10; the deans plan to discuss the interviews and to meet tomorrow with officers of the national and alumni office of the fraternity corporation officers, who requested a meeting after learning of the incident. Several members of the fraternity have refused to discuss the incident with Coocordiensis. In response to the rumors circulating on campus, however, one brother cautioned, \Don't believe everything you hear.\ So far there has been no action taken in reference to the house building and no one has been arrested. \. . . obviously the amount was not consistent with . personal consumption.'' Dean of Students Joseph Manunola According to Dean Mammola and the incident report, Peck was summoned to the deans' office, where he was told of the information the College received. Peck and the deans left immediately for the fraternity house, and, with the security ()fficer, descended to the basement. Behind a makeshift cioor near the boilers, they f(Jund two dozen plants in various stages of matlll'ity, up to six feet in height, and another dozen seedlings. The plants were tl}en removed by the security ()ffieer and the deans. Dean Mammola commented February 6, \obviously the amount w~s not consistent with personal co11sumption.'' Thoug.h the deans' office has not (as of this writing Tuesday night) rea~lled a decision, Dean Mammola C'Ommented, \It is a serious matter. It is an illegal activity, on college property, conducted in a fraternity house and will l~equire appropriate action by th-e college.\ Alumni Gym Opening Ceremonies Tomorrow Picture Tour Imide By CHRISTINE HONG building of the gym, for example, thE contractors and the arehltect.\ PROGRAM 12:30 p m. This past f;~U, one hundred people took the fall term abroad, sixty took the winter tenn abroad and fifty will take the spring term away from Schenectady. I>ue to the fact that forty percent of the junior class takes .a term abroad on average, the IU. system needed to be modified to accomodate for these .poople. The result formulated is t<J allow people who take a term abroad in the fall to come bc:lck in the winter as an RA. The adjustment was seen as especially appropriate at Union, beca11se the long winter breaJI: provided a \natural break; to introduce new RA's\ saicl Dean Wood of Residence Life David Wood. In addition, pe()ple who take a winter tenn ()ff can be RA's in the fall. When they return in the spring, they would however, return as re{!ular residents. Dean Wood ::~aid \it seems difficult for ~ pErson to come back as an RA, in the spring and enjoy a positi-ve experience with a new floor fol:\ the remainding ten weeks''. 'rhe decision also took into a(]~Ollllt the effect Student Forum Proposes Tomorrow afternoon, the inaugural celebration of the renovated Alwnni Gym will mark the official induction of the latest addition to the Union College campus. The ceremony, whicll will begin 12:30 p.m. at the North Entrance of the complex, will commence with the traditional ribbon cutting followed by guided tours of the gym, an inaugural swim, and open-campus u.se. I- 4 p.m. Ribbon Cutting Entrance Foyer Tours of the Gymnasium Issue Alum11i Gym Preview ·page3 Electi()il Statements Page 4· PhiJC)soplly Forum Page 6 Alice in W ()fiderland Page.l4 V aJentime'~ With Chip Page 16 \Sports.talk\ photos and Imterviews ''Campus Grounds Committee'' By R. REED WHIDDEN The Student Forum is working on a way in wlli.ch to help out both the students with their complaints and the Physical Plant. Because the forum has noticed many complaints about problems not being corrected and much vandalism on campus, they have decided to form a com- mittee to focus on these problems. Sometimes the maintenance problems around campus never seem to be tak.en care of. Every morning the sinks are cl()gged or you always seem to be sliding to classes on ice or some()ne has spray-painted a wall ag~in. The responsible student would go to someone and make these problems known. Unfor- tunately, this is not always the case. This committee, the Campus Grounds C<Jrnmittee, wollld act as a liasion between th~ two. If a student does not ){now to whom to go, or if.the student is, for some reason, to() in- timidated to go to someone and report the problem, that problem may go unnoticed for weeks. Many times the Physical Plant receives so many com- plaints it is hard for them to decide which ones to handle first. If there is a r.roblem that a student knows o , he or she may go to the committee and channel the complaint through' it to the Physical Plant. The committee would then take these complaints to meetings between itself, Dean Mammola, and someone from the plant. These meetings would be conducted ·every two weeks. Perhaps the eyes of 2,000 would more easily spot problems around campus than only the few eyes of · the Physical Plant. Hopefully, as well as solving more main- tenance problems, this will promote campus awareness and make everyone a little more proud and happy to live here. The forum is looking for four able bodies to work on the committee. If anyone is in- terested contact anyone on the Student Forum. Get involved, see that the maintenance problems you find be taken care of. The opening of the Alwnni Gym was planned by a com- mittee which was headed by Vice-President Thomas D'Andrea. He said \The idea was to have some kind of formal ceremony indicating this grand addition to the Union College campus as well as to make it brief and have it appeal to the student body, primarily. We also wanted to be able to acknowledge some of those involved in the planning and . ~- 4:30pm. lnau~ural Swim President fohn Morris 4:45- II p.m. Open for Campus Use Refreshments will be served The first event planned, which is the ribbon cutting ceremony, will take place on the concourse level and will probably last. no longer than 15 minutes. It will include the participation of the President of Sweet Associates, Robert Fortune, Student Forum President Steve Moss '87, Vice- Presidents D'Andrea and C()ntinued on page 3 A refreshing view of the new olympic·sized pool complete and ready for the Alumni Gym opening tomorrow.

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 12, 1987 Laudatory Remarks:- Grounds Crew Clears5,0'.6_\ Snow c: It) E ~ 0 ... t!J > It) ., > .0 0 +- 0 .c: ·a. By LORI LEON The campus community congratulates the maintenance men for combating the 50.6 inches of snow fallen on the campW$ since January 1. The 11 men worked for six straight weeks without a weekend off to clear more than 38 miles of walkway, three miles 'Of road and nine acres of parking area. Memorial Chapel, the architectural work of MtKim, Mead and White, contrasts with Potter's Nott Memorial. . These men, most of wh()m have been working for Union for., . over ten years, are dedicated to doing a good job. They are on call at almost any hour, \whenever there is a need\~ ;I -Noteworthy News- GE Announces 1988 Lay-off Decisions General Electric aMounced that it will lay off another 400 workers in 1988, but plans to keep local employment at 12,000, according to a statement by V.P. and General Manager of Turbine Business Operations Russell L. Noll, Jr; \Certainly the worst of the announcements is behind us,\ Noll said at Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce's breakfast February 6. About 2,800 workers will be laid off by 1988, according to previous announcements. Lawrence Stone, another GE spokesman, said that the poaitions will be cut \both in salaried and hourly ranks.\ Noll said, \We~ve been overpaying people for a long time. And that's over .. it starts with me on down.\ Williams Student Raped at Knifepoint At Williams College in Williamstown, MA, a student was raped at knifepoint in her dorm room two weeks ago. The victim did not sustain any other physical injuries, but the im- pact of this event shocked both the college and the local conununity. In the week prior to the attack, the victim received several sexually explicit and threatening phone calls. At the time of the rape, the girl's room was unlocked,. and hence, easily accessible to the assailant. Presently, the perpetrator has not been identified by the local police or the student. He was wearing a ski mask and it is not known whether the rapist was a member of the college or not. Williams is currently taking extra security precautions and has sent a letter to the student body. They are advising all students to keep doors locked a.t all times. ' Ramee Plans GainNYS Grant _for Library . Schaffer Library has been awarded a grant from the 1986 New York State Discreti()nary Grant Program for the Con- servation and Preservation of Unique Library Research Materials; namely, Joseph Jaques Ramee's architectural plans of the Union campus. Ramee's drawings, dated 1813, are among the earliest plans for an American college campus. The Ramee plans are often consulted by students and scholars of American history. Ellen Fladger, Archivist, oversees the special collections and designed and submitted the · .grant. · Income Tax Returns Due April15 The 1986 NYS IT-100-S Student Fast Fonn for filing New York State taxes is available in the following locations: Schaffer Library, Old Chapel, and the Financial Aid Office. The IT-1oo-s tax form is designed to be used by single students with no dependents who are still dependents of their parents. Included with the tax form are complete directions and tax tips on filing a return. Contact the Financial Aid Office if you have questions allout filing a return. ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE GRADUATE STUDIES PROGRAM The Albany Medical College Graduate Studies Program is designed for qualified students motivated toward teaching and investigative careers in f11e busic sciences. Tire Prograrn provides the student with a solid back- ground in all aspects of modern scientific study with advanced instmc- fion in the student's area of e:perialization leading to a degree of Doctor of Philosophy or Master of Science. Requirements Applicants must have a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university and should have taken courses in general and organic chemis- try, general biology and ph}'l'ics. Students applying for admission in the Graduate Studies Program are r~quired to take the Graduate Record Examination prepared and administered by the Educational Testing Service, Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. Fields Of Study.-:----:--:---:-:--:-----:-7----=-----=--~-­ Anatomy, Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Pathology, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Physiology. Financial Aid .- A limited number of full tuitio11 scholarships and stipends based on teaching assistantships and research assistantships are available. Other financial assistance can be arrcmged through the department to which the student applies and through the Medical College Offit:e of Financial AUd. I Located in Albany, New York, The Albany Medical College was founded in 1839. In 1873, Albany Medical College united wit~ Union College, the , Albany Law Schoo[.; the Alban~ College of Pharmacy, and the Dudley . Observatory, to form Union University. Since 1971, the Albany Medical College has also been affiliated with the Hudson-Mohawk Consortium of Colleges and Universities. For additional information contad: Office of Graduate Studies and Research, Albany Medical College of Union University, 47 New Scotland Avenue, Albany, New York 12208, (518) 445-5253 according to Ken Relyea, supplies and do special setups assistant director of the for dinners. physical plant. Working a 12~lfi Mr. Relyea said, \We do well hour day is not unusual, A 'th · h t h th 1 f Wl ·w a we ave.... · e guys coup e o weeks ago they even really keep busy and they do a stayed overnight in order to great job.\ He especially noted \ h d Harold McBride, who has been T e groun s crew very · . with Union for forty years. \I'm much deserves to be • very proud of them,'' he added. congratulated. . . they have : In a recent Concordiensis worked very hard.\ interview, President Morris President Morris ·· complimented the men: P low, shovel,. and san the \ .. tbe grounds crew very much much deserves to be cc;m:- campus grounds. In addition-to gratulated. They are tired .. We this, these men are responsible have a record snowfall; .they for all of the manual l~bor on campus. They pick up garbage, are not -used to h~ving it. I move furniture:,. dig holes, in- really think that they have stall plants, pick .up and deliver worked very hard.\ A view of the back of Memorial' Chapel, one .of the nation's finest acoustically-built halls. Program Your Future With Pratt & Whitney You've spent your college years hemining; the best you can be. Now you're looking f(w a eareer to make all that plfort worthwhi]f'. PPrll<lps yon should <·na~ider Pratt & Whitney A~ a worldwide leader inadmr1ced jet aircraft eHgine development, Pratt & Whitney has a numhcr ofimme- diate opPnings for Engim•t·ring orComputf.'r Sdenct> graduates se(:king a cart't'r in computer applications. Pratt & Whitney is a company that will recognize your potential. And devdop it in oue of the fi)Umving areas: Engineering Graduates: •· Factory Automati()n • Computer Integrated Manufacturing • Process Control • Robotics • Automated Material Handling Computer Science Graduates: • Manufacturing Support • Materials Systems • Shop Floor Control • Financial/ Accounting Systems ~ Purchasing!Invent()ry Control As a men1ber of the Pratt & Whitney team, you 'U take your place among the top professionals in the industry. And work with some of the most advanced <;:omputer systems in the world, including: IBM Mainframes, DEC VAX Systems, andWorldwide Data Communi- cations Networks. Pratt & Whitney also offers.fonnal training programs to enhance and expand your career. Once on board, you'll be offered an excellent ~alary, outstanding benefits c<Jverage and 100% reimbursement of Graduate School tuiti<Jn. For an interview on cam- pus, contact your placement office today. Or send your resume to: Max Fentress, Manager College Relations, Pratt & Whitney, 400 Main Street, MIS 103-57, East Hartford, CT 06108. UNITED TECHNOLOGIES P~ATT&WHI'TNEY An EqualOpporlunity Employer .c. ='= E (I) 10 u u Q) .c Q) a::: > .c 0 .... 0 .c. a. .l

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 12, 1987 laudatory Remarks: Grounds Crew Clears50.6'' Snow c ., E <f) <f) 0· L t!J > ., ' ..., > ..0 0 +- 0 .c 0. By LORI LEON The campus community congratulates the maintenance men for combating the 50.6 mches of snow fallen on the campus since January 1. The 11 men worked for six straight weeks without a weekend off to clear more than 38 miles of walkway, three miles of road and nine acres of parking area. Memorial Chapel, the architectural work of McKim, Mead and White, contrasts with Potter's Nott Memorial. These men, most af whom have been working for Union for, over ten years, are dedicated to doing. a good job. They are on call at almost any hour, \whenever there is a need\ fl -Noteworthy News- GE Announces 1988 Lay-off Decisions General Electric announced that it will lay off another 400 workers in 1988, but plans to keep local employment at 12,000, according to a statement by V.P. and General Manager of Turbine Business Operations Russell L. Noll, Jr. \Certainly the worst of the annoWicements is behind us,\ Noll said at Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce's breakfast February 6. About 2,800 workers will be laid off by 1988, according to previous announcements. Lawrence Stone, another GE spokesman, said that the positions will be cut \both in salaried and hourly ranks.\ Noll said, \We've been overpaying people for a long time. And thatfs over .. it starts with me on down.\ Williams Student Raped at Knifepoint At Williams College in Williamstown, MA, a student was raped at knifepoint in her dorm room two weeks ago. The victim did not sustain any other physical injuries, but the im- pact of this event shocked both the college and the local community. In the week prior to the attack, the victim received several sexually explicit and threatening phone calls. At the time of the rape, the girl's room was unlocked, and hence, easily accessi.ble to the assailant. Presently, the perpetrator has not been identified by the local police or the student. He was wearing a ski mask and it is not known whether the rapist was a member of the college or not. Williams is currently taking extra security precautions and has sent a letter to the student body. They are advising all students to keep doors locked at all times. ' Ramee Plans GainNYS Grant for Library Schaffer Library has been awarded a grant from the 1986 New York State Discretionary Grant Program for the Con- servation and Preservation of Unique Library Research Materials; namely, Joseph Jaques Ramee's architectural plans of the Union campus. Ramee's drawings, dated 1813, are among the earliest plans for an American college campus. The Ramee plans are often consulted by students and scholars of American history. Ellen Fladger, Archivist, oversees the special collections and designed and submitted the grant. Income Tax Returns Due Apri115 The 1986 NYS IT-100-S Student Fast Form for filing New York State taxes is available in the following locations: Schaffer Library, Old Chapel, and the Financial Aid Office. The IT-1lJO.S tax form is designed to be used by single students with no dependents who are still dependents of their parents. Included with the tax form are complete directions and tax tips on filing a return. Contact the Financial Aid Office if you have questions about filing a return. ALBANY MEDICAL COLLEGE GRADUATESTUDffSPROG&ruM Tile Albmzy Medical College Graduate Studies Program is designed for qz1ali{ied studmts motiPated toward teaching and inPestigative careers in tlzc basic scienas. The Program proe>ides the studmt with a solid back- growzd in all aspects of modem scientific study with advanced instruc- ticm in thr studmt ·~ area of cpeciali:::ation leading to a degrer of Doctor of Plzilosoplz.IJ or Master of Sciena. Requirements Applicants must have a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited college or university and should have taken courses in general and organic chemis- try, general biology and physics. Students applying for admission in the Graduate Studies Program are required to take the Graduate Record Examination prepared and administered by the Educational Testing . Service, Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey 08540. Fields Of Study ____ :-:-----:-::-:-----:-::-----:-------=:--:---:---- Anatomy, Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, Pathology, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Physiology. Financial Aid A limited number of full tuition scholarships and stipends based on teaching assistantships and research assistantships are available. Other financial assistance can be arranged through the department to which the student applies and through the Medical College Office of Financial JUd. . Located in Albany, Nev.J York, The Albany Medical College was founded in 1839. In 1873, Albany Medical College united with Union College, the . Albany Law School, the Albany College of Phannacy, and the Dudley Observatory, to form Union University. Since 1971, the Albany Medical College has also been affiliated with the Hudson-Mohawk Consottium of Colleges and Universities. For additional infonnation contact: Office of Graduate Studies and Research, Albany Medical College of Union University, 47 New Scotland Avenue, Albany, New York 12208, (518) 445-5253 Tb:nrsttay~ . Februaey12 3: ~p.m. ~ait3:1~ ~A . . 1~q~ ' J, FlnJkel$,~ilil~, .. , .·.\ . , . . : ., •: .· 1J:t)Op.rn. M~monal·.:··· .... .. 'fl.l ,, . · .... ·ce:Jft':S$Jti'es~ HO:cland<l~irifig'Qutttte~tu ··· 8:30p.m. Old Cbap~t Panhelleme Qabaret . · . ·.·· . . Friday, . February18 2:00p.m. SS015, WotJiem;,s;St!ld~Jl~~~tJ:t·~~~ries. Ptl)fessor J;fo~IJen!J,, · 7,9, llp.m.SS016. ~ovie::t~pr~~Ylnl?iri!t/' , ............... ·· · · · , 7:00..9:l5p.m, A~St .:···.· Wtatlitionof tm.ptoVi&atinnCoooot'(.. . · 9 p.m ... z a.m. uta;; Club. . · · · · · according to Ken Relyea, assistant director of the physical plant. Working a 12-15 hour day is not unusual. A couple of weeks ago they even stayed overnight in order to supplies and do special setups for dinners. '''The grounds crew very much deserves to be congratulated. . . they have worked very hard.\ Mr. Relyea said, \We do well with what we have ... the guys really keep busy and they do a great job.\ He especially noted Harold McBride, who has been with Union for forty years. \I'm very proud of them,\ he added. President Morris plow, shovel, and san the campus grounds. In addition to this, these men are responsible for all of the manua:l labor on campus. They pick up garbage, move furniture, dig holes, in- stall plants, pick up and deliver In a recent Coocordiensis interview, President Morris complimented the men: '' .. the grounds crew very much much deserves to be con- gratulated. They are tired. We have a record snowfall; they are not used to having it. I really think that they have worked very hard.\ A view of the back of Memorial Chapel, one of the nation's finest acoustically-built halls. Program Your Future With Pratt & Whitney 0 0 0 0 ' 0 • ' 0 0 M • • 0 0 -. ' - 0 •• You've spent your collcgt• years becoming the best you can bt•. \ow :-ou 're looki11g fin· a career to mak(' all that !'!Jclrt wort hwhilt-. Pnhaps ~;r nr should t'omidt ·r Pratt & \\'hitr wy. :h a world\\ idt· ll'adl'r in ath anced jd ain·rafi t•ngiNe dt'vt'lopm<'nt. Pratt & \Vhitney has a m11nlwr ofimrne- diatt· opening~ fin· Engint•t·ring or C:omp11ft>r Sdt·m·t• graduates sel'killg a can·tT in eomputer applications. Pratt & \Vhitm·y is a company that will n·eognizc your potential. And den· lop it in one of the f(>llowing ar..·a~: Engineering Graduates: II• Factory Automation • Computer Integrated Manufacturing • Process Control • Robotics • Automated Material Handling Computer Science Graduates: • Manufacturing Support II Materials Systems • Shop Floor Contml • Financial/ Accounting Systems • Purchasing/Inventory Control As a member of the Pratt & Whitney team, you'll take your place- among the top professionals in the industry. And work with some of the most advanced computer systems in the world, including: IBM Mainframes, DEC V A.X Svstems. ami Worldwide Data Communi- cations Ne~orks. Pratt & Whitney also offers fonnal training programs to ('nhance and expand your career. Once on board, you 'JI be .offered an excellent ~alary, outstanding benefits coverage and 100% reimbursement of Graduate School tuition. Fc.>r an interview on cam- pus, contact your placement offic£> today. Or send your resume to: Max Fentress, Manager College Relations, Pratt & Whitney, 400 Main Street, M/S 103-57. East Hartford, CT 06108. : . '' . : ·. ~' . ':: . '. . ' : . ~ . ' . ~· .. ' . UNITED TECHNOLOGIES PRATT & WHI'TNEY An Equal Opportunity Employer ..c .... E en rtl u u (J) .c (J) 0:: > .c 0 +- 0 .c 0.

CONCORIJIENSIS, February 12, 198.7 - -,._ .. - ; <. -- - - ' -. •• Faculty Approves Formation of Group To Research Alternatives to General Education Gado Named Chairman of Com mi.ttee By DAVID GULLIVER . Januacy 30 faculty meeting, . claimed that since the plan wa~ due to begin implementation · next year, further investigation .· through ~his spring term would have no ill effects on the plan. problem.'' Professor Bick added that \the corrunittee will find the AAC very receptive\ of their work. Although the spring faculty vote can be seen as a choice between the original and alternative .proposal, Professor Page3 ... Gl c. c. 10 ::.! c: ..'!! <( :>. ..0 0 .... 0 .s:::. c. By a 52-48 percent margin, a faculty vote approved the fonnation of a new committee to investigate alternatives to the General Education curriculum. The Academic Affairs Committee (AAC) then approved the committee, as non;linated by Chairman of the F)aculty Ted Bick. Professor of English Frank Gado was nominated and approved as chairman of the committee. <-' Bic~ noted other solutions. ''The ~ AAC can,. if it wants, try to form .~• an amalgam of the two, or later o ·submit some of the alternative ~ ideas ats an amendment.\ A viewof the inner campus from the lobby of the Alumni Gym. According to Professor Bick, 142 facUlty members voted, which woUld make the margin, by vote, 7468. He counted the vote and met with the AAC during the afternoon of February 6. After discussion, the AAC . approved the com- mittee, which consists of the chairman,. Professor Gado, Assistant . Professor of Arts Hilary Tann (representin.g Humanities), Associate Professor of Economics Bradley Lewis (representing Social Sciences),· Professor of Physics David Peak ( reQresenting sciences), Associate Professor . o~ Civil Engineering PhilliP' Snow (representing ~ngineering), and student representative Cindy Curtis '87. A number of faculty mem· bers apparently changed their decision from believing General Education to be complete. Professor Bick conunented that they \were probably persuaded by (Professor) Gado's argument, 'what have we got to lose.'\ Professor Gado; in the ORIENTATION. COMMITTEE Applications are now being accepted for positions on the -Orientati<>n Planning Com- mittee·. This group of ten students Will · work with faculty and administrators to develop and execute the New Student Orientation program - and will also choose the sixty student orientation advisors. Applications are available in Whitaker House and at the Old Chapel ticket booth. Due Date: Februaryl13th Interviews Begin: February 16th Call x6061 for more information. ~ Professor Gado ls .pleased g with the people selected for the .0; committee: he feels they· are Alumni Gym: Picture Preview Chairman of the Professor Ted Bick. faculty, representative of the faculty. Commenting on a short ten weekperiod until the proposal is due, he said, '•All I asked for is a chance.\ He sees the committee as .a means of processing suggestions, ~dis \eager for ideas\ especially from Divisions 3 and 4 (science and engineering) which he admits are not his specialty. Professor Gado reiterates that the committee will not be \ex- clusionary\ and will be receptive to any suggestion. The committee does not have any specific plans yet but will be meeting with the depart· ments. The new comniittee has to work fast. They have to prepa~e an alternative proposal by the sixth week of spring term which will then go to a facUlty vote. The Subcommittee on the Curriculum's plan represented over two years of work. Professor William Thomas, chairman of the AAC, com- mented on the situation, saying \If that rrntny people feel we should take another look, we should ... butthe question is, did they vote as they did for the same reason? Aligning their· interests will be a major ~~~~==~~~====~====~ - . Continuecllr~m page 1 Hauser, an<l President Morris, who will .):)e·. cutting the ribbon, refreshrne!lts following that event. Thel'e will be tours of the gymnasilllll.from 1 p~m. to 4 p.m. The tolla's will be'guided by members of ·the Athletic Departmemt, which has already entered the premises earlier this week ttO settle into the office space. Dicll: Sakata, Director of Athletics, commented that the Athletic~. Department is \delighted\' to be moving into the gyrnnllsium, formally their offices haci lleen located in the Field Houste during the .20- · month rellovatiOJl. He is also enthusiastic that the gym will be irrunediately open to the campus for use, which for the remainder of winter term is restricted to enrolled 19jl6-87 students, faculty, and staff use~ The inaugural swim, in whicJ:ii President Morris will have the hDnor to take the \first dip\ Will follow the guided tours, after which the conununity will be invited to use the facilities Until 11:00 p.m. The facilities include an olympic. s~e swimming pool, racquetball and squash courts, nautilus and free weight rooms, full locker r~om ac· commodations, tCJwels and gymnasium equipment. 1.- CI.> c. c. ra :::.!: c: Ill <i :>. .0 0 ... 0 J: c. .s:::. .... E V) ra u u ~ .0 ~ 0:: >- .0 0 .,_ The naumus equipment room will be supervised by a trained The free wreig:ht room, read),- for campus use, will also be super· 0 .:: 0. specialist. vised.

CONCORDIEN.SIS, February 1.2~ 1987 Page3 Fa,culty Approves Formation of Group To Research Alternatives to General Education Gado Named Chairman of Committee By DAVID GULLIVER January 30 faculty meeting, claimed that since the plan was due to begin implementation next year, further investigation through this spring term would have no ill effects on the plan. problem.\ By a 52-48 percent margin, a faculty vote approved the formation of a new committee to investigate alternatives to the General Education curriculum. The Academic Affairs Conunittee (AAC) then approved the committee, as nominated by Chairman of the F:aculty Ted Bick. Professor of English Frank Gado was nominated and approved as chairman of the committee. According to Professor Bick, 142 faculty members voted, which would make the margin, by vote, 74-68. He coWlted the vote and met with the AAC during the afternoon of February 6. After discussion, the AAC approved the com- mittee, which consists of the chairman, Professor Gado, Assistant Professor of Arts Hilary Tann (representing Humanities), Associate Professor of Economics Bradley Lewis .(representing Social Sciences), Professor of Physics David Peak (representing sciences), Associate Professor of Civil Engineering Phillij) / Snow (representing Elngineering), and student representative Cindy Curtis '87. A number of faculty mem- bers apparently changed their decision from believing General Education to be complete. Professor Bick commented that they \were probably persuaded by (Professor) Gado's argument, 'what have we got to lose.'\ Professor Gado, in the ORIENTATION COMMITTEE Applications are now being accepted for positions on the Orientation Planning Com- mittee. This group of ten students will · work with faculty and administrators to develop and execute the New Student Orientation program and will also choose the sixty student orientation advisors. Applications are available in Whitaker House and at the Old Chapel ticket booth. Due Date: Februaryi13th Interviews Begin: February 16th Call x6061 for more information. Professor 13ick added Ulat \the committee will find tile AAC very receptive\ of their work. Although the spring faculty vote can be seen as a ~ choice between the original and .c alternative proposal, Professor · 2 Bick noted otller solutions. ''The l!l AAC can, if it \Wants try to form an amalgam ()f the two, or later D submit some 4Jf the alternative ~ ideas as an amendment.\ ; ;2 Professor Gado is pleased g with the people selected for tile c. committee: h.e feels they are Chairman of the faculty, representaUve of the faculty. ProPessor Ted Bick. The new committee has to work fast. They have to prepare an alternative proposal by the sixth week of spring term which will then go to a faculty vote. The Subcommittee on the Curriculwn's plan represented over two years of work. Professor William Thomas, chairman of the AAC, com- meDted on the situation, saying \If that many people feel we should take another look, we should ... but the question is, did they vote as they did for the same reason? Aligning their interests will be a major ····- ~ ·.:, .. ,. .;...,, ~ Conunenting on a short ten week period 11ntiltb.e proposal is due, he said; \.All I asked for is a chance.\ He seesthe committee as a means of processing suggestions, and is \eager f{)r ideas\ especially from Divisions 3 and 4 (science and engineering) wbich he admits are not his specialty. Profess()r Gado reiterates that the committee will not be \ex· clusionary' ' and will be receptive to any suggestion. The committee does not have any specific plans yet but will be meeting t.Vith the depart· ments. The olympic-Size swimming pool awaits th~l 1 ~alJg · A view of the inner campus from the lobby of the Alumni Gym. Alumni Gym: Picture Preview Continued from page 1 Hauser, and President Morris, who will be cutting the ribbon, refreshments following that eve11t. There will be tours of the gymnasium. from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. The tours will be ·guided by members of the Athletic Department, which has already entered the premises earlier this week to settle into the office space. Dick Sakala, Director of Athletics, commented that the Athletics Department is \delighted\ to be moving into the gymnasium, formally their offices had been located in the Field House during the 20- rnonth renovatio.n. He is also enthusiastic that the gym will be immediately open to the campus for use, which for the remainder of winter tenn is restricted to enrolled 1986-87 students, faculty, and staff use~ The inaugural swim, in whicH' President Morris will have the honor to take the \first dip\ will follow the guided tours, after which the community will be invited to use the facilities until 11:00 p.m. The facilities include an olympic size swimming pool, racquetball and squash courts, nautilus and free weight rooms, full locker room ac- commodations, towels and gymnasium equipment. The free weight room, ready for campus use, will also be super vised. ... al Q. Q. !E ~ c: ttl <( >- .0 0 - 0 .t::: Q. E VJ ttl u u al .c Q) 0:: >- .0 0 - 0 .t::: c.

P.age4 CONCORDIENSIS, Fe!Jruary 12, 1987 . - -- . - . --- -· ELECTION STATEMENTS Congratulations to Robin men to the best of my ability. I Palladino who was elected to · am familiar with the one of the two open positions of . proceedings of the Student freshman representative to the . Forum and I believe that I am a Studept Forum, with 49 percent · well prepared candidate for the of the vote. As none of the other .position. candidates achieved the· I can assure you all that · required 40 percent of the vote, within this small frame there there will be a rWI-off for the lives an enthusiastic, hard second position between the · worker. remaining six candidates. . Voting will take place Friday, February 13, at West between · 9:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. The candidates who receives the most votes will win. Brown Hi! My name is Lisa Brown. As you can obviously see, I am running for the position of Freshman Representative to the Student Forwn. lf any of you don't know me, you .may have just overlooked me, since rm not exactly the tallest person on campus. For those of you who have, you don't know what you're missing. When I first came here to Union, I asked myself what I could do to become involved, as many freshmen do. One possibility that I have found is the Student Forum. To me, it represents a challenge to .Ieam more about Union and to be an active part of the college commupity, expressing my views and those of other fresh- Bemis I.have experience that I can utilize to be a competent representative of this freshman class. I have been an officer of a county wide organization for more than four ~da half years, including one and a half years of leading this organization, and I have attended. New York State and National Leadership seminars. With these ex- periences, I will, if elected, press upon the Administration that we are very annoyed with their actions dealing with the phone rates and geHime. They should not have shoved these two items down our throats! I will also try to apply pressure to have the Nott Memorial, listed on the National Register of Historic Places, restored. In its present state, the Nott Memorial is a disgrace! There is a commitment to this college, community and nation to have the Nott Memorial restored. Finally, I will be very responsive to the needs and wantsofthe freshman class and make sure their desires are heard. I will.strive to make sure we, the students of Union College, get the very best and nothing less will do. Morales Due to an oversight, both my picture and statement were not included in the last issue of Concerdiensis. My aim as a freshman representative would be to keep the Student Forum aware of the problems, questions, desires and needs ofthe class of 1990. To allow the students to feel they, too. can have a say in making Union all it can be. As a result of being a representative, I would be able to keep my class up to date with the pains of the Student Forur:n. My methods of accomplishing this task would be to speak with my peers on a one-to-one basis and through posters. Since I am currently the secretary of Rich- mond Dorm Council that would also give me an idea of what's hot and what's not. - Hynes Qualifications editor of school newspaper officer of senior class active athlete at Union (basketball, lacrosse, soccer) Goals available to listen and act upon your ideas and concerns Practical, realistic, ac- complishments get sunflower seeds in West try to keep the hot chocolate machine from running out Statement: The primary job of a repr:esentative sbould be to listen and actively presslll'e pursue a ll~ppier campus life for all and if Sllnflower seedS arid.hotchocolate are what you want, I'll <Jo my best to get them. Lazar The office of student representative should be filled by some()ne with leadership ex:perien<!e and qualifications. During my high school career; I was vice president of the Spanish Club, no I wasn't, I was WRUC IS HERE treasurer of the Student Government. Yeah, that's it. I was treasurer -of the Student Government. I got to pl~y with an th~ money my school raised and I must say I did a great job. My 'honesty and vast political e:xperience will allow me to serire my freslunan class the best way I know b.ow. So remembe~, Friday vote for the best candidate. Vote for Howie Lazar. ·· · Cohen . Having been at Uni()rt · for fifteen weeks now, I have had variollS interactions with the administration on both the \disciplinary and · academic levels and I've seen how the administration functions. In my dealings with the ad- ministration, it appears thatthe administration has not taken into account all sides of probl~ms deaijng with student · affairs. As student represent~tive, I will deal with this problem of student•administrative com· munication and appropriate a stronger voice in the Student Forum. I will not take orur· my views, but also those o the students I am representing, you the freshman class, into the Student Forum. I will also try to create a more diverse social life. Get Your Teams Ready! Each question correctly arTswered wiH win you personally at least one prize and one point for your team. Grand prizes will be awarded for the teams in each of the three categories: Dorm, Independent (Commonly known as the \Floor'~ catagory), and Greek Organization. Tune in to 89.7 WRUC starting Sunday night at 8:00. Trivia Dates: THIS Sunday, Feb. 15· 8-11 p.m. 90 Questions Sunday, Feb. 22 8-10 p.m. 70 Quest!c;tns Sunday, March 1 a .. Jo p.m~ 70 Questions ,. I l

----- --- ----·-· \- ------ PageS FEATURES . I Roses Are. Red .• • • Talk Of The Town 'Concordy recently ask~d: ''Which professor has :Influenced your career ~;tt Union and why?\ ByWENDYZlMMERMAN and FRIENDS Well, February 14 is right around the comer and. the- cloud of gloom is already forming above the .growds of Union College. Contrary to popular belief, thj~ mas_::~ o( preeipation .is taking its toll on male students as well as female, and in equal proportion: Let's an think back to ow· high school days: in particular, your first Valent,ine's. Day. The visions of wal~ing cautiously down the haU · trying _ in· conspicuously to figure out how many carnations. and·or roses each girl and~r guy tried ei~het to hide or obnoXiously display, wbile you either tried to fqllow suit (if.you were lucky) or tried to put on a facade of self· confidence (obviously hiding the fact that no flowers came your' way). Well kids, high school graduation isn't the end of the unfortunate saga. As we all know, romance does not run rampant on Union's grounds. In order to expe1'ience it students must be willing to search for it. What. is it about the week surrounding Valen· tine's Day that sparks changes in peoples' mood, appearance and confidence? In this oh so special week happy-go·-iucky kids go to melancholy, ever_yoqe st_arts their diet, aiJ.d everyone acquires a f~ar of talking to, looking at. or thinking about people of the opposite sex, whether they are friends, acquaintances or other. This is the time when girls get together and talk; everythfng relating in one way or another .to the benefits and-or disad• vantages ()f being attached and not being attached, making the first move and not making the first move. Freshmen records are carefUlly scrutinized and Greek directories are employed for cross t•eference. Parties are suddenly -of major importance because of the .newfowd desire for exposure~ and the mad search for dates for fraternity· sorority formals begins. Every bad mood is somehow traced back to some boy; just as every good mood is related to a suc- cessful experience with the same one that brought on the bad mood~ AlthQugh this is the female experience for this joyous holiday, there does exist . a male side o-f the story. _ Now bQys • no one is fooled! Everyone:knowsthat the effects of the week being discussed are experienced by boys as well. Is · it mere .coincidence that when the SpoJ.1s niustrated. bathing suit issue hits the stands, this special week is right around the comer? How many men have stared at_ a page -of this religiously read magazine and asked tbemseives why there aren't women - like this at Union,? Well I can answer this one. Unfortunately ('for the women, most importantly) these women are of an elite group and not of the average. Sorry! {)ne man I know \sleeps; it's the best way to avoid problems.\ Another \kicks back, sucks down a few, passes Ollt and forgets the whole experience.\ Guys suddenly become wary when girls talk to them at a slightly· closer range or touch them a little more than usual. One girl says, \If I have a problem with a guy I just beat them up.\ Others \go shopping, it always helps.\ In any case, . this week hits us all hard. What is the common solution? If I knew that I'd write a book and be a millionaire. But I don't so I am forced to sit with my freshman record and Greek directory and cross reference. Union is just not conducive to romantic activity. There is a definite need for a large influx of self-confidence, \balls' (thank you Alex), and imagination. Raalistically though, it's only seven days and then yQu get a 358 day break to prepare for next year. Success depenchl on the individual as does,.failure. :aappy Valentine;s Day! . . .. ,, photos and interviews by AI Klapper ;&f~~\'f.l4, .. ~,, ''Professor Board - his vast knowledge in politi~al scoence and law has encouraged me to pursue that field.\ Jon Laskin '88. \The ~ngineering pro · fessors - they taught me most of everything I want to know.\Thu Le '88. \Professor Eno Kuan - because she taught me all the chemistry that I could know.\ Ramon Pewa '90~ \Professor Hartwig because he encouraged me to do things outside of Union College, that would· help my education.'' Bill Cooper '87. Psychology Career Day Review EngUsh Department Announces Writing Contest Writing at Union can be bank account,\ said Professor One of the competitions was profitable -for winners of con- Alan Nelson, who is in charge of started only last year, but all tests announced this week by admil}istering the contests and the others are long-established the English Department. arranging the committees of traditions at Union. Three of ByROBBIEGOLDMAl.'C a much ~roader understanding Posted around campus are judges. \We hope that students them emphasize \creative\ of the applications of details for five writing corn· with possible entries will get writing • fiction, poetry, or the The Psychology· Department psychology. I also began to petitions which will award them in shape to submit. Some informal essay. These are the held its first annual Career Day question how well I listen in prizes ranging ~rom $100 to shy writers need to be prodded Yudis Prize, for the best prose sponsored by the Psychology class and to- my friends. $1,000 at Prize Day on May 9. into action, so we Urge faculty ficti<m; the prize for poetry Club and Psi Chi (the Depart- Although my day began with a 'jA prize like that can raise and friends to encourage them . awarded each year at Union by mental .Honors Society) on loss, it ended with a win. your spirits and bolster your tD send in their work.\ the Academy of American ,February 4 .. The event turned .-------..--.---......_~----------__,.,.---------.-------------. Poets; and the Shocket Prize, out t() be quite successful as for excellence in creative many faculty members and. G D ' • • writing. students turned out to root for . rea· t . e\ CIS I. on s T~o awards are made for the_ rats and discover the · ·- . ·. . . - - · ·. · _ · ·. _. · non-fiction writing: the Van various opportunities available Orden Prize is for \the fresh- to psychology majors. man student who exels in deficit, who are being opposed countering the immense English composition,\- and the Although the rat I placed my By PAULSCHOP · by individuals who feel that the military threat that they see the Allen Essay Prize is meant for bet ()ll suffered from an over- United States must spend as S<>viet Union as posing. the senior who writes the best dose of cheese and slept through _ On Wednesday, February 18, much money as it takes to Klunk adds that this con· non-fiction essay. the entire race leavine me the Union CDllege International defend ourselves from the troversy is not of recent origin. \The writing often comes defeated and penniless; I was Relations· Club will present the SoViets. He feels that this debate has from work done for classes, said quite impressed by the great next discussion in its '1987 Great Klunk describes those on the been in progress since the end of Prof. Nelson, ''but it certainly number of professionals wbo Decisions program. This former . side as being WWII. For instance, he feels need not;\ He added that some attended the event. One · discussion will focus on the Democratic members of that President Eisenhower students assume that the professional in advertising and conflict between the need for Congr~ss Who applauded ccnsciously pursued a foreign contests are meant for English graphic design expressed defense spending and the Reagan when he mentioned the policy that would produce the majors, but that \winners come concern, as many other& also federal budget deficit. size of the defjcit and the need to smallest defense budget without .from all parts of the campus.\ did, about the practical ap- · The discussion will be led by controlit during his recent State cutting America's com- The money for prizes is plications -of psychology. He political science professor of the Union address. Those on mitments to her allies. sometimes divided, to allow pointed out how the study of Brian Kl\mk. Professor Klunk the other side are said by Klunk A likely direction for Wed- recognition of second place people helps predict the sees the controversy as being to be those members of nesday's discussion will be winners. He said that he hoped behavior of _ individuals to a one in which on one side there J;ieagan 's ·cabinet and their Congress' response to the Iran the faculty would urge their ·particular stimulus, such as ar_e people who are newly aware sup{>9rters, who see money as Contra affair. ,Klunk feels that students- to submit their work. ;advertisement. · of the need to~ontrol the federal beiilg no object when it comes to Congress will likely pass new ''And sometimes a roonunate legislation this year similar to . gives a helpful push,'' he added. The gueSt siJeaker, Dr. David the War Powers Act, which The deadline for submissions Bush, of Villanova University, would give Congress· a large is Monday, March 30, which is talked about his research · role in arms sales policy. Such the first day of the Spring term. concerning workers in the work . ·ed, _· :_., .. ·_ AW:_ ype. _- .. _ legislation would make it more All entries must be turned in setting and how this applies to I ~ difficult for a future ad- with a pseudonym, ac- the mtl(tical setting. J4'. Bush ministration to pursue extra- companied by.a sealed envelope felt that the majority of people WORD · PROCESSING · SERV1CE legal methods of financing revealing the writer's real are poor listeners, . often certain foreign policy-defense name. Further details may be eXhibiting as little as a 30 Resumes a,nd Cover Letters spending programs, like the had from Prof. Nelson in percentattentionspan •. 'Fheonly -- · arming of the contras with Humanities 210, or by phone at exception to thiS rule 'Oc<:tirs- Te,chnica-1 Typing · Iranian arms sales profits. Ext. 6207. When a doctor is pres~rib~g Term ·pap'_ ers and Theses medicine where attention _ m• creases to so- . percent. Male listeners in a group setting listen more attentively to a male speaker, observed Dr. Bush,. while the reverse is true for females. Dr. Bush wrapped up·thediscussion by stating that listening is only half the battle as it is also the listener's job to act. As the Psychology Clreer· Day came to a close, I left with 1986 rates for first drafts received before February 1,1987 Phone 399-8762 On-campus deUvery can be arranQed Stude-nt Activities Van is now available (Fifty Mile Radius) For more information check in Student Activities Office or call 6129

P~ge6 CONCORDJENSIS, February 121 1987 ' ... FEATURES c: QJ ... {/) c: QJ ~ c ftl '- LL r:: QJ w >- J;J 0 .... 0 .s::: Q. Three Barbadian women Photo Exhibit of Barbados By LORI RICHARD If the sight of snow is getting a bit monotonous and you think you need a break from the typical scene of winter, in Schenectady, you might try taking a look in the upstairs lounge in Social Sciences. Here for a brief moment, you can escape those shivery winds and submzero temperatures and trade the picture of ice and snow for a view of colorful pahn trees and sandy white beaches. The shots of palms and beaches are only part of a collection of photographs· depicting the Union 1986 winter term abroad in Barbados-and, though intriguing, are by far not the only subjects which can be seen in the presentation. The display, which is titled: \An Exhibition of Anthropology and Photography,'' includes approximately 24 b.l~ck and white, and color photographs. The exhibition features photographs taken by the students who participated in the 1986 term abroad in Barbados and their professors, George and Sharon Gmelch, as well as 12 full-sized black and white portraits taken by Martin Benjamin of the Arts Depart- ment. The photographs focus on a variety of themes ranging from portraits of the Barbadian people and shots of Barbadian ,. villages to pictures of students working on an archeological dig. The pictures offer an inside look at the beauty and culture of the island, as well as provide a sample look at the Wlique term abroad in Barbados. pUl'})Oseofthe exhibit is \to give ~e campus community some Idea of what kinds of conditions UnioB students live and work in in Barbados-and also gives the students who participated in the tenn abroad a chance to exhibit their own photos.;, The nine students who took part in the '86 term abroad in Barbados, and contributed to the display are: Robbie Blink:off, Sarah Bittleman, Maggie Boitano, Pat DiCerbo, Margaret Hess, Lance Hum- phrey, Greg Julian, Margaret Ross, and Alex Stephens. Professer George Gmelch is very enthusiastic about both the term abroad in Barbados and abollt the exhibition, and en· courages anyone interested in taking a glimpse at third world peot>les and cultures - or just in getting a look at other students living add. worldng:,abroad - to · come and hrowse thFough the coneaion of pictures. PhiloSlphy Forum .•• ''The Individual Is Rich'' By KAV~SHEmANI An excerpt from The Little Prince, by Antoine de &int- Exupery: And a brilliantly lighted express train shook the swit· chman's cabin as it rushed by with a roar like thunder. \They are in a great hurry,\ said the little prince. ''What are they looking for?\ - \Not even the locomotive engineer knows that,\ said the switchman. And a second brilliantly lighted express thundered by, in the opposite direction. \Are they coming back already?'' demanded the little prince. \These are not the same ones,\ said the switchman. \It is an. exchange.\ · \Were they not satisfied where they were?\ asked the little prince. \No one is ever satisfied where he is,\ said the swit- chman. . And they heard the roaring thunder of a third brilliantly lighted exJ>ress. \Are they pursuing the first travelers?\ demanded the little prince. · \They are pursuing the nothing at all,\ said the swit- chman. ''They- are asleep in there, or if they are not asleep they are yawning. Only the children are flattening their noses against the window panes.\ \Only the children know what they are looking for,\ said the littie prince. \They' waste their time ·over a rag: doll and it becomes very important to c: ·a:; .... If) c: ~ c: ro ,_ LL c: QJ w .,.. .c .E 0 .s:: Q. them; and if anybody takes it away from them. they cry . . . \ \They are lucky;\ the switch- man said. Given the following description: The alarm rings at eight-thirty. I wake, take a shower, dress up, eat breakfast, grab a few pieces of paper and a pen, and I head to class, On the w.ay to class, I run into at least a dozen people I know. They are all in a hurry like me. I. say: \hey what's up,\ and tl:ley answer: \hey what's up?\ Or once in a while they say \hi and I answer \I'm fine., and you?\ ·This roUtine repeats itself numerous times, often With the same people, as I walk to other elass.es, to lunch, to the mail room, and- then back to my room. Who am I? This existence, mine · and perhaps yours, ~ a life of habit. Martin Heidegger in his book Being and TUne, aptly calls these experiences a life . of \average everydayness.\ In the mode of average everydayness, we _ are far removed from ourselves. We live our life not as individuals but as indistinct parts of mass. Indeed, the above description of a day at Union can be applied to almost every one of l;!.S. · There are very few instances in· our days, where we can recall being the sole participant of an ac-, tivity, whereupon given a description of that act, it can be in:unediately asserted who this ''I\ is. Those rare moments of the day are the few important occasions of our lives where we are individuals. What does · it mean to be an individual? Individuality means being unique (beyond the physical aspects that identify us), and it also means directing 'my' life through 'myself,' and not tlirough others. How do' 'I'' gajn the quality of being unique: through having a very special relationship to my life:-by spending time with IllY .life like the child with his-her rag doll. By letting my life \tame\ me, as the little ,prince \tamed\ his rose thus assigning to it a special meaning that only he could understand: \You are not at aU like my rose,'' he said· (speaking to the thousands of roses he encounters on the earth). \As yet you are nothing. No one has tamed you, and you have tamed no one. You are like my fox when I first knew him. ae was only a fox like a hundred thousand others. But I ha:ve made him my friend, and now he is unique in all the world.\ Wbatis the significance. of the statement, \directing 'my' life throl\gh 'myself' and not through others?'' It means reali.zj:ng that \I\ am bestowed with the gift of life-a gift that is only given to me once 1 and which comes in its wholeness and without form. And then \I'' must; ask myself: \how shall I shape it, what form shall I give it?'' How do \I\ approach this question? I must attempt to answer this question in the-face of death .. In Letters to a Young Poet, by Rainer Maria Hilke, Franz Kappus, a student in his twenties who loves poetry, is wondering whether the life of a poet befits him. He writes a letter to Rilke, asking him for advice. Rilke replies, \Go in- side yourseH. Discover the motive that bids you write; examine whether it sends its roots down to the deepest places of your heart, confess to yourself whether you would have . to die if writing were denied you. This before all ask youself in the quietest hour of· the night·: must I write.?, Such is the significance of the statement that ~ays ''in- dividuality is directing 'myi life through 'myself' and not through others.\ lt means building \my\ life _ :through nece$sity and in the face of death. To love life as an individual is evidently no simple task. 'In fact it may only be an ideal, for such burdensome reqUirements on .life might be unbearable for even the strongest among us. However, each one of us, should try as hard as we can to strive towards this ideal no matter how infinitely distant it may seem. Often we should ask ourselvf;S whether we. are doing what we want to do, or what we are being told to do,. and we should try as hard as possible to do the former so that our lives will be richer. For we live each moment only once. · Professor George Gmelch, who jointly heads the tenn a broad to Barbados with Professor Sharon Gmelch, carne up with the idea for the project and states that the A typical home in Barbados Happy Valentine'S Day! EXCITING CAREER OPPORTUNITY Sherwood Capital, Inc. is a major full .investment brokerage firm with over 30 offices coast to coast. For individuals interested in a career ;in the financia.l services industry; we offer an extensive training program. Opportunities for ad- vancement into management are available. We wH I be on campus Tuesday, February 17th for a group presentati.on foHowed by a recruiting date on Tuesday, February 24th. Contact the Placement Offic~ for further detalls. Co·me to hear our stories and see pictures from· the .. 1986 TERM . Th.~daY• :February 12th ai s:OO·p~m. , Davidson Lounge

CONCORDIENSIS, February 12, 1987 Page7 ~ .... 0 u QJ u ro Q) 0.. E 0 :.... - 0 - 0 .r::. a. Peace Corps Volllnteer works in a Nutritional Edu.cati.on Pr~gram, Gambia, West Africa. 11 c· ._ On, the C(Jreer Sc.· ·ene: onr areer T.h ·p C p· d 0 · ~- .~_, Development . · · e .. · eace OrpS: . lD Ut ~- ~ center What It Can Do for You By MAGGIE BOITANO Are you loDking for the job experience ofa.lifetime? Do you enjoy being challenged? If you answered \yes\ to any of the preceding questions, perhaps . the Peace Corps is for you? After spending a term abroad in :Barbados working in close association With twD Peace Corps Volunteers there, the diversity and wealth of ex- perience such a job affords was laid open to me. Not only does ~be Peace Corps allow the more . . a,<:ly.~I]tur~:ms trave!er , to . p~r­ tlclpate m developmg cultures of interest, but if you have a knack for languages this may just be the opportunity you need to become proficient. · On Februaryl7 and 18, .Peace Corps representatives will be on campus to interview_ .potential volunteers for tbe summer and fall as well as to provide in- formation for all · those in- terested in what the Peace Corps experience involves. _At 7 p.m. on Tuesday a film will be s~~ of volunteers in the field domg their job. John Waite, a volunteer who spent two years working in Burkina Faso, West . Africa, will then be available to relate his experiences there as well as to answer any questions raised. Before leaving for-their final destinations, all Peace Corps volunteers re.ceive three F'U/.U//////DO//U///.//..0'//~ ~· . . ~ ~·· GERMAN ·~ months of intensive language training and cultural in- formation. Living expenses, travel, medJ.cal benefits and a readjustment allowance are all provided for once a volunteer is nominated. For niore in- fol1llation about this adventure, come to the information session Winners Of The Public '. ·_ spe~kins Contest: 1st-Tim M·atthews '89 2nd-Evan Collins '87 3rd-Jirn-Ostrove '90 Prizes: lst-$125 2nd-· $75 3rd-$50 G l.ft Certificate to the Bookstore To be involved in PSC on February 17 at 7 p.m. in the Career Development Center, or sign up for an interview on February 18. If you're too busy to attend any of these events on campus, call or write to the Peace Corps, 1516 Broadway, . New YDrk, NY 10036 Phone: (212) 944~73. ,_ (I) a. 0. 10 1988 contact Scott Davis . >- .o 3720172 or Lisa Galati · -s 356·4374 .c a. FEATURES \'H·· e Looked Good\ ByALEXSTEPHENS \He lo.oked good,\ said the elderly man leaning against an old Chevy with a plastic sheet for a rear window and a dented bumper adorned with a sticker saying \Reagan-samoza '84.\ \That's all everyone's said about Reagan's State of the Union address, 'he looked good.' Forget how he ducked the Iran- contra deal, the touching but irrelevant anecdotes or even the syrup style of patriotism for the purpose of getting applause.\ I had no idea how the con- versation began, but I wasn't going anywhere and this guy might just be an ex-Cabinet member. \He certainly is the master of rhetoric,\ I added. \You said it, fella, Granted, when the chips are down he does give an eloquent speech, but this was nothing but a rerun of his previous ones.\. \I guess he included excerpts from those other speeches verbatim.'' \Exactly. Boy, it really irks me to know an old actor of bad movies is nmning our country. I suppose that's before your time.\ \A bit. I've only seen one of his fihns.\ \Which one?\ \Knut Rockne.\ ''Well that's a good one. Nevertheless, you get my point.\ I gave an ambivalent shrug. \All I~m saying is this was supposed to be his most important speech and it lacked substance. He only slightly alluded to the contra thing, now come on. I question the in- telligence of our Commander- in-'Chief if he says he was oblivious to the whole thing.\ \As Ben Franklin said, 'the fish stinks from the head down.' Right?\ . \Precisely. The guy probably thinks you have to water nuclear plants if he is that unaware.\ Funny. \But .§eriously, the emphasis on how he looked overwhelmed me.\ I ~ort ()f agree, but for a guy who just turned seventy-six years old and recently underwent surgery, he did look good. \You know, it's the power of the T.V. media that's responsible for the whole thing, and you know who started it?\ A rhetorical question, mostly because he didn't let me answer. \Ken- nedy. Now it seems facials have replaced briefings. Just look at all the hoopla the Superbowl gets from the media and it's usually the worst game of the year.\ All of a sudden I saw ads saying Lawrence Taylor for President. He'll tackle the. deficit like ... \unfortunately most people rely on T.V. for their news so the candidates must fit the part.\ \Granted what you're saying is trile, what about the content of his speech, leaving aside the anecdotes and fJag waving?\ \Well for one, Reagan wants mol\e money for defense, now there's a euphonious title. for y\u. Plus, he vowed to initiate a balanc:ed budget, which he has yet to achieve or even ap- proach. Nope, Ronnie's just going to coast the rest of the way. Well, got to go.\ With this, he got into his Chevy and pulled into the ·moving traffic. Something Swift said hit me then (not that I make a habit out of quoting the man but because he had come up in a recent class), \His vein, ironically grave, exposed the fool and lashed the knave.\ ~:LANGUAGE ~ ~ .TABLE ~ Tim Matthews- Public Speaking Competiton Champ. ~ . . ~ ~· every Friday ~ ~ 12:30 - 1:30 p.m., ·~ i Hale House .~ ~~AWUQ4W//dAV.W~ Subacriptiont for the 1987 Garnet wlll·be on aale neu week Fe~ 16-20. they will be on Mle htwHn 11 :30-l:OO ,at Old Chapel and . W.lt College. Cest will be $2$. ' Anyoilfi interested . in purdll'llng last year's booll, thy will also h Gn lilt at a . . reduced ....... . ;\ AEROBICS Where: Dance Studio Arts Bldg. When: Monday and Thursday 7:00 Friday and Saturday 4:00 ALL ARE WELCOME ~ PREMEDS TAKlNG THE MOAT'S THIS SPRING OR FALL The MCA';l' application ~~ets are in and can be picked up in Dean Roth's office Baily Hall, Room201

CONCORDIEN:SIS, Febru~ry-12, 1987 Diner of The Week Drinker's Exclusive ByLEELACHOWDHURY and CAROL HAAS Did you know that the Carl Company has a restaurant? Well, it does: The Gold Bond Room. Unfortunately, it was closed so we aren't reviewing it this week but we hope to sometime in the fUture. We were all dressed up with no placeto go. Our loyal readers know that we were planning on gracing Ruby's Silver Diner (the G.E. yuppie hangout) with our presence this week. However, when we called to make our reservations we were told that they were closed. We stated adamantly that we were the Real Leela and Carol Diner Reviewers at large, put they told us that they didn't believe us, dismissed us as , phony imposters, and said they were· closed at six o'clock. What were we to do? · In a state of shock and dismay we wanderedthe dark, .sub-zero streets of Schenectady. We mumbled to one another, ''I can't believe that they didn't believe us! There goes their ambience points.'' We hap- pened upon various skeezy establishments which we would not even deign enter. (Note: places NOT to go-Jay Tavern, DeWitt's Tap Room and Cafeteria) In a state of desperation we thought we would go into the Port and buy a can of Beefaroni, when sud- denly hit us. Right across the street we saw the bright neon green sign for the Union Inn. We figured with a name like Union it couldn't .be that bad. We entered and almost got struck by a dart whizzing by. When we finally figured out who the waiter was, he gave us menus and promptly took our order. He showed us our tables. Sensing we were important, he gave us a spot with a good view of the pool table in the Greek Revival Fraternity style dining room. We waited for our food and listened in on the chatter and merriment from the bar. (And wouldn't you like. to know what they were saying':') \Gee we said to one another, \this is the kind of place where your boyfriend would come to smoke cigars, talk smut, and guzzle beers with the boys.\ Yes, this was the place . where the men were men and. the women were pool queens. Our food arrived. We ordered the turkey sandwiCh on whole wheat AND the turkey sand- wich on a roll. The food, however, did not reflect ~he atmosphere. 'Instead of tasting like cigar .ashes, it was quite good. Everything was fresh. As we walked out of the dining room, which, by the way, was lit almost entirely by the romantic aura of neon beer signs, wewere glared at by the reigning queens. We noticed the two pinball machines and the bowling maehine in the corner as well as a jukebox· that was chockfull of the latest hits. We bid our mates good-bye, paid the tab, and. ran out. 'Til next week, later, dudes. We're Golden. By KRISTINE ROBINSON aDd MAlA ENZER 'Welcome ba~k, everybody. Tile Lushitivity Council sin~ cerely hopes that you all had cheery vacations. But over the break the liquor lab research colltinued as strong as ever. Tllat's right! I We · have replenished our repertoU:e of recipes, so prepare for a hig~y alcoholic t~rm. Well, thert:j are <mly 1,026 drinks to choose from· in tbe drink dil'ectory (which was donated by Caroline Gegan) so we'll just have to try to make them la$1:. Anyway, we will now be able to bring you a mol\e diverse and cultured drinking resource. Now, as you probably have realized by this time, winter is a very-dehydrating season. So we are here to warn you and to help you keep warm, comfortable and, most importantly, '~spirited\ during this often .In Commemora-tions of Black History Month~ B.LA.S. Presents: Great In- ventions by Black Americans* The following is just a sampling of the many great inventive accomplishments of Black Americans throughout the history of our Nation: THERMOSTAT & TEMPERATURE CONTROL SYSTEM, by F.M. Jones TRAFFICSIGNAL LIGHT., by Garrett A. Morgan GAS HEATING FURNACE, by Alice Parker {First Bla~k Woman to Receive Patent) PROPELLER FOR VESSELS, byGeorge Toliver RAILWAY BRAKES, by GranviUe Woods AUTOMATIC LOCKING SWITCH, t>y W.H. Jackson CONTROL DEVICE. FOR I NIERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE, by F.M. Jones ELECTRIC LAMP, by Latimer&Nichols PORTABLE WEIGHING SCALES, by J.H. Hunter INDUCIION TELEGRAPH SYSTEM, by G.T. Woods AUTOMATIC GEAR SHIFT, by R. B. Spi.kes WINDOW VENTILATOR FOR RAILROAD CARS, by H.H. Reynolds 0 I L H EA IE R, by S. Newson FIRE EXTINGUISHER, T.J. Marshall · CLOTHES DRYER, by G.l. Samps<ln SCAFFOLD, by H. Pickett AIR CONDITIONING UNIT & STARTER GENERATOR, by F.M. Jones REFRIGERATOR, by J. Standard STREET SPRINKLING APPARATUS,by M.W.Binga CAPS FOR BOTTLES, by Jones& Long LONG SPRINKLER, by E.J. McCoy ·PENCIL SHARPENER, by J.L. Love BLOOD PLASMA, Discovered by: Dr. CharlesDrew THE Fl RST SUCCESSFUL HEARl OPERATION Performed by: Dr. Daniel Hale *<The Scene, p. 3. 21Im HALE HOUSE'S ' FINE DINING INVITES YOU! Dinner Menu Strip Steak Boneless Breast ·of Chicken -nightly specials -served over rice $4.25 $3.85 drea1'3' and barren few months. mixbtg ' smooth drinks. :t'iow, 1\t()ffett;'s may seem a long hike this recipie requires a vanilla in tile cold, but we promise the milk$hake. Now,· WHERE can w~r lla(lk will be quick and you get one of p.ose? Of coul'fJe, cheer,. However, we believe .it as you probably have notoced,. out (iuty as fellow colleagues to we are ~till sympathetic · renlilld You that, spirited or not, towards you budget students. yo11 siunlld always wear a coat Even though we get so much · (BillJones), scarf, mittens; hat money from our employment. and boots outside •. Never wear Anyway, we understand that · untre-aded $hoe~ j;f you're your )?.ars just might be lacking .. plmni!lg an interlude with the in .o1;u~ of the ingredients of this . jo;ys of Baccb.us. Hypothermia, week's drink. So., we've frc:~st~ite, and slippery path~ bro~denedtltemarginsof error~ w~ys are true dangers. So write In that v.anilla·shake, .put any of tllatdCJwn andpin.it.tothe inside the following liquids ~t any of yCJIII' wool coat because ·lifter quantity. you choose. enjoying this week~s libation ·Remember. you paid a dollar for you' rnay well need reminding. the shake. .A!S vrell as a les~n in balance. Light Rum W.alk 'With a friend.- .And now-... Vermouth for 1b:e very first drink of the . Vodka w;eelt for Winter terrn. Pepperment Schnapps . 111· h()nor ofthose small spheres Gin . tll:at .are so much fun to be - Tequilla . peltt!d with ·and · also those · ·any cream liqueur bea 11tifuul cascades around We suggest investing~ in a catn.pliS that avalanche from flask, so you can riiii your r~fs .in splendor, we take this SNOWBALL on the spot. It will dt-htk :from our new book just for also be handy ~ you get snowed yDu.But, before we divulge the in to Bailey or something. But. reci]eand all you mad cloppers · we're going to give you the real pb1r1ge your Scissors across the SNOWBALL recipe now: page .to snip it · ot,tt, thereby · · 4 oz; cocktail glass, deellling the. remainder of our preferably chilled oll$Cl tedious work unreadable, combine: we intend to make an ex:· 2 tsp creme Yvette pU!nation. Now, some of you 2 tsp white creme de menthe m.ay believe that working while 2 tsp Sambuca Romana . in sch()ol is disadvantageous. 2 tsp cream H()We'ver, two rather close 3 to 4 ice eubes in a shaker and fri~11ds of the Lushitlvity shal_te vigoro\lSly. Strain into Collileil have · diScovered that glass. But don't .feel too bad if world11g at a certain basement you can't· afford it. Have a few fo()cl place on campus is quite of the budget. drinks and you conp.atible with particular won't care anway. Until next pl.eas~nt past-times. Like week, keep warm. Computer Fun Day The Society of Women Engineers (SWEl at Union College held the second annual Computer Fun Day for area. Girl Scout members on Saturday, February 7. A.pproximately 120 Girl Scouts from the Schenec~ady area earned badges as they got hands·on computer·experience at the Stanley G. Peschel Comput~r Center. About 15 Union College SWE members and Student volunteers introduced the scouts to computer programming, word processing, computer games, binary numbers, color graphics and the mainframe computer system hereat Union. SWE at Union hopes to continue to provide educational experience; founded by Cheri Marinello '81, an electrical engineering major, and member of swe•s Union College student sections for the youngsters in the· years to come. · Attention!!! Pasta Special $3o85 · All of the above served Freshman Sophmores Juniors Believe it or not, th.e wheels are already in motior:~ for Homecoming '87, October 9-11, Come join us f()r Ollr first student planning meeting: with tossed salad and fresh rolls Different Desserts Nightly Beer-and Wine Ava.ilablefor Diners 21 and Older Hale House Fine Dining House Monday· Friday 5-7p.m. Open to faculty, students, administration, everyone welcome. Tuesday,February17 4:30P.M. Hale House Lower Lounge H. of Cocoa and Donuts This will be a chance to toss around ideas, meet new friends, and get involved! For MtJre! Information Contact: Dave Shin6erg '88 o; Lisa Tortorello '89 ----

CONCORl)IENSJS, Febrnary·12; 1987 . - ' - -. \ ' - - HAVE A CAR? .$ $ % * * WANT TO-SKI WllH WINTERFEST? * * * * * $ * * * * * * • SUNDAY, FEB. 15, l·- 4:30 AT WILLARD MOUNTAIN • ~ DAY SKIING AT A SPECIAL PRICE You must present your I.D. at Willard to get a lilt ticket It * * * • • * • • • • • • Jewish Student U niQn Presents: J ewisb Film Festival ' Monday, February 16,7:30&9:30 p.m~'- SS016- A Talent for Life: Jews of the Italian .Renaissance. Marc; Siegel's pighly praised fil:m from lta·IY nominated for four 1980 Emmy Awards. Emmy winner for Direction & Music. . Monday, February 23,9:30 p.m. - 55016 - Pourquois Israel?- Unusual documentary dealing. with Israel's demography and absorbtion of World Jewery. Monday, March 2, 7:30 &. 9:30 p.m. - 55016 - · Rescue at Entebbe-Rescue of Hostages by Isreal special Commandos at Entebbe Airport, Uganga. .. We've got it And we still DELIVER! All Movies are FREE! All students are Welcome! 370-6060 · Xi! i.ent~lttt' s <Ulenners & rlrnilors 7litb •. • 1714 UNION STAEET ( 518) 374-6647 / Tuesday • .Friday • Saturday Soda or Juice $ .50 Beer 1.00 Wine 1.25 Wine Coolers 1.25 Top Shelf 1.5.0 HALE HOUSE LOWER LOUNGE Must be 21 to enter and provide two forms of I.D.-A Union Colleg·e LD. · and one other ac· .ceptable form of identification. • Page9 Last Day to Withdraw from Courses Friday 2/13

PagelO CONCORDIENSIS, February 12; 1987 Fo~l al { ln10n Collq::~ 1877 ----------- -------- A New Life On Campus A year and a half and 6.2 million dollars later ... welcome Alwnni Gym!!!! Frid~y at 12:30 the opening celebration of the renovated Alumni Gym will reveal . a modern complex vrhich is a. much- needed addition to the campus. Its facilities include an Olympic size swimming pool, 11autUus and free weight rooms, and a racquetball/squash C()urts. During the opening celebration tours will be given from 1-4 p.m. At 4:45 it will open for:,campas use until 11:00 p.m. (For more information see articles and box onpagel) . . For the remainder of the winter term use of the gym will be limited to those with a valid Union I.D~ card. - Winter at Union ha5. confined us t()· a limited social atmosphere, which bas been aceentua1ed by the absence of a Campu:3 center, but now the openmg of the Alwnni Gym will provide an welcomed relief to many of the frustrati()ns felt thus far. All. we need is the motivation to take advantage of the opportunities there. Now t.bat we have the opportunity to enjoy this complex, we must llC>t abuse it. Even before the opening the pool was vandalized, J!Ossibly adding to the slight delays in tts opening. Its ours, let's make the most of it. - . More News Believe it or noi, Concordiensis is not the only publication on campttS! Not only do we bave The Idol, Garnet, The Idealist, The Union Undergraduate Review and Union . Lampoone (all put out by students), we have tbree ·publications that the College puts out: The ChrtJ~nicle, For the :Record, and the Union College magazine. · The Chronicle, For the Record, ud Union College magazine have impr()ved inunensEiy over the past few years. The Uni()n College magazine is a fine journalistic work that rivals any otller C()llege alumni magazine in the cotmtry. It is published bi-monthly, except monthly _in July and August. (This is the one with the pretty cover that your parents get at h. orne.) ~nder the ste'Yardsb.i;p of editor Pe~er. Blankman, director of publlc relatwns, the magazme has become a platform for ill-depth feat1.1re analysis of educational life at Ullion. Not only does it provide a link with alumni artd _parents, it educates them through its sharp illtellectual pieees. In its most recent issue, which focuses on thought, tlte magazine interviews psychology professor Seth Greenberg on his theories about thinking; psyellology professor Frank Calabria Oil thought, cre<ttivity and per- ception; a story on the creative life of teacher and composer Hilary Talln and a neat feature on Hugh Foley's work with e>ptical illusion::~. Of course, the magazine concludes with news about what alunmi are doing and alumni affairs. The Chronicle is a handy one page fact sheet which, at a glance, informs the college community of hap- penings, student news and includ~s a calendar . of events on the reverse side. Its edit~r, Brin Quell, is the director of press r~lations. They have even added a sister publication For the Record~ which,chronicles the accomplishments (}f faculty and .administrators. The magazine is available in Lamont House and The Chronicle can be picked up at Old Chapel and in the library on Fridays. These publications are worthy of reading ~nd molle .students sh()uld be included amongst thetr readership. Coming Next Week: Analysis of Tuition Increase ------------~------~- Opening Ceremonies Report From Alumni Gym Keeping the Cm:\\negie Name LETTERS Live the Chinese- Experie,nce To the Editor, This is a personal thank-you to everyone who took time out of their b11$y mid-term schedules to attend ''China Night\. In addition to Matt Hopkins, May Cheung, Lawrence Rosenthal, Suzanne Lachelier, Sue Chang, Margot Salisbury, Ethes Mangray, James Sawyer, Chris Hartmann, and Stu Odell, I would like to extend. my deepest thanks to Professor- Reynolds, Professor Thurston, Professor Thomas, and Mrs. Baksay for· aU of their much needed assistance. Most importantly, I would also like t.o thank Union's four exchange students from China for preparing such delicious refreslu:nents. I am sure that I speak for every student who -studied in Nanjing last term when I say that it was an experience that will never be forgotten. The memories will be etche4 into OW' niinds forever. To all the students who are so very for- tWlate to follow i11 our footsteps next year, I can· offer only my best wishes ~d strongest ·hopes that you will have as fascinating an adventure as. did we. When you return from ()hJna, you will. all realiZe how l11cky you really are. Again, gocd luck, a:nd thanks so much ior coming! :Xiexie, .niJnen! Alison Abrams '87 Chemistry Courses Never Oose~ To the Editors, I would like to correct a misstatement which occurred in Michael Silberstein's article on the front page of last week's Concordieusis. In the article, which is about the Gel-Time dry run, Silberstein suggests that \quite a few\ students have . been closed out of chemistry . The precedures for spring preregistration will be the same as those used for winter term. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and each student has been. assigned a specific time to preregister. Preregistration materials · (the \Pregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses will be available at the egistrar's office· beginning Friday February 20th. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and · select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. To preregister every student will be required to have their advisor sign their preregistration form. If their advisor is unavailable, a student should conult with the head of their advisor's department. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred o ·as ''list\ courses and are Letters to the Editor and Commen.taries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis All Letters to tli) Editor must - be typed doublea . spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide .. their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names nor- mally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect letters that are libelous ·or do not conform to standard of ood toste. courses. ThiS is simply not tr~e. To rny knowledge, no student has ever been closed out of chemistry course in my 16 years at Union. While some recitation and labsectionsdo. indeed close, there have always been openings in other sections. This term, in fact, we dropped sections of General Chemistey because of low enrollrilent. indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses wm be posted by the departments oil Wednesday, February 25. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then should return to the departments on Friday, February 27, to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. No ·:one will be allowed to preregister for a \list\ course Without such a card. These are the only courses that require such cards. Preregistration for an in- dependent study or research will require written permission o~ the supervising faculty .. member. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label · affixef;l to the 'Preregistration Course Request Form'. Students may not preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration wU1 conclude on Friday, March 6. Additional course changes may next be made. d~g the , Silberstein's article was supposedly based on an in- terview with Dwight Wolf. Dwight ass1,1I'es me that he is as mystified as I mn ·about tbe origin of the mismatement. Sin~erely, T.C. Werner Professor and Chair of Chemistry . Drop-A<ld period' at the start of the spring term. Students will oo achnitted to.' Silliman Hall .at the time. printed. on: their ''PreregistraU.on Course Request Form\ (this form,' filled out and signed by their advisor, must be brought to preregistration). Once inside:. they should verify that the. courses they desire are not' closed. If one or more courses· are ·closed, they should select' new ones and correct · their preregistration fo:rm. Then they ·. should see a staff\ member who will preregister them. Students who do. not, plan to return. to Onion J:o~ the ·spring· term, except graduating, SeJliOrs, must g:ivec notice of tll.eir plans _ to the Dean of Students. Potemtial March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar im- mediately of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the winter term, if they have not • already done so.

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS, February 12,1987 C!TDltfllrbirnsis Fo~,J a/ lfmon Co/leg~ 1877 ------------ -------- A New Life On Campus A year and a half and 6.2 million dollars later ... welcome Alumni Gym!!!! Friday at 12:30 the opening celebration of the renovated Alumni Gym win reveal a modern complex which is a much- needed addition to the campus. Its facilities inclad.e an Olympic size swirruning pool, nautilus and free weight rooms, and a racquetball/squash courts. During the opening celebration tours will be given from 1-4 p.m. At 4:45 it will open for campus use until 11: 00 p.m. (For more infonnation see articles and b0x onpagel) For the remainder of the winter term use of the gym will be limited to those with a valid Union I. D. ca:rd. -Winter at Union has confined us to a limited Rocial atmosphere, which has been accentuated by the absence of a Campus center, but now the openmg. ()f the Alumni Gym will provide an welcomed relief to many of the frustrations felt thus far. All we need is the motivation to take advantage of the opportunities there. Now that we have the opportunity to enjoy thi~ complex, we must not abuse it. Even before the opening the pool was vandalized, P-ossibly adding t() the slight delays in its opening. Its ours, let's make the most of it. , More News Believe it or not, Concordiensis is not the only publication on campus! Not only do we have The ldOtl, Gamet, The Idealist, The Union Undergraduate Review and Union Lampoone (all put ou.t by students), we have three publications that the College puts out: The Chronicle, For the Record, and the Union Colle~e magazine. The Chromcle, For the Record, and Union College magazine have improved immensely over the past few years. The Union College magazine is a fine journalistic work that rivals any other college alumni magazine in the country. It is published bi-monthly, except monthly in July and August. (This is the one with the pretty cover that your parents get at home.) Under the stewardship of editor Peter Blankman, director of public relations, the magazine has become a platfonn for in-depth feature analysis of educational life at Union. Not only does it provide a link with alumni and parents, it educates them through its sharp intellectual pieces. In its mcst recent issue, which focuses on thought, the magazi11e interviews psychology professor Seth Greenberg ()n his theories about thinking; psychology professor Frank Calabria on thought, creativity and per- c.eption; a story on the creative life of teacher alld composer Hilary Tann and a neat feature on Hugh Foley's work with optical illusions. Of course, the magazine concludes with news about what alwnni ar-e doing and alwnni affairs. The Chronicle is a handy one page fact sheet which, at a glance, informs the college community of hap- penings, student news and includes a calendar of events on the reverse side. Its editor, Brin Quell~ is the director of press relations. They have even added a sister publication For the Record, which chronicles the accomplishments of faculty and administrators. The magazine is available in Lamont House and The Chronicle can be picked up at Old Chapel and in the library on Fridays. These publications are worthy of reading and more students should be included amongst their readership. Coming Next Week: Analysis of Tuition Increase ------------ Opening Ceremonies Report From Alumni Gym -------- ....... --~- Keeping the Carnegie Name LETTERS Live the Chinese Experience To the Editor, . This is a personal thank-you to everyone whotook time out of · · their busy mid-term schedules · to attend \China Night\. In addition to Matt Hopkins, May Cheung, Lawrence Rosenthal, Suzanne Lachelier, Sue Chang, Margot Salisbury, Ethes Mangray, James Sawyer, Chris Hartmann, and Stu Odell, I would like to extend my deepest thanks to Professor Reynolds, Professor Thurston, Professor Thomas, and Mrs. Baksay for all of their much needed assistance. Most importantly, I would also like to thank Union's four exchange students from China for preparing such delicious refreshments. I am sure that I speak for every student who studied in Nanjing last term when I say that it was an experience that will never be forgotten. The memories will be etched into our minds forever. To all the students who are SQ very for· tunate to follow in our footsteps next year, I can offer only my best wishes and strongest hopes that you will have as fascinating an adventure as did we. Wl1en you return from China, you will all realize how lucky you really are. Again, good luck, and thanks so much for coming! Xiexie, nimen! Alison Abrams '87 Chemistry Courses Never Closed To the Editors, I would like to correct a misstatement which occurred in Michael Silberstein's article on the front page of last week's Concordiensis. In the article, which is about the Gel~ Time dry run, Silberstein suggests that \quite a few\ students have been closed out of chemistry The precedures for spring preregistration will be the same as those used for winter term. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. Preregistration materials (the \Pregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses will be available at the Registrar's office beginning Friday February 2oth. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. To preregister every student will be required to have their advisor sign their preregistration form. If their advisor is unavailable, a student should conult with the head of their advisor's department. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred o as \list\ courses and are Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis All Letters to ~~~ Editor must be typed double- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all · writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names nor- mally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the · right to reject leHers that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste .• courses. 'lbis is simply not true. To my knowledge, no student has ever been closed out of chemistry course in my 16 years at Union. While some recitation and lab sections do indeed close, there have always been openings in other sections. This term, in fact, we dropped sections of General Chemistry because of low enrollment. indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Usts for these courses wiJl be posted by the departments on Wednesday, February 25. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then should return to the departments on Friday, February 27, to f:ind out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. No ·one will be allowed to preregister for a \list\ course without such a card. These are the only courses that require such cards. Preregistration for an in- dependent study or research will require written permission of the supervising faculty member. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label affixed to the 'Preregistration Course Request Fonn'. Students may not preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday, March 6. Additional course changes may next be made during the -·· : .- .. ~·- . ;\1-us:~age Edlt&rs · Sports lS(tltor Assac. SpDrts Editor Science Editors Advertising Editors Assoc. Advertising Editor Business Manager$ ~·' • ' Photo Editor ~ Copy Editor Subactiption Editors ijonoracy FacUlty Advisor Silberstein's article was supposedly based on an in· terview with Dwight Wolf. Dwight assures me tbat he is as mystified as I am about the origin of the misstatement. Sincerely, T.C. Werner Professor and Chair ofChemistry Drop-Add period at the start of the spring tenn. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their \Preregistration Course Request Form\ (this form, filled out and signed by their advisor, must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire are not closed. If one or m()re courses are closed, they should select new ones and cor-rect their preregistration form. Then they should see a staff member who will preregister them. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except graduating seniors, must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. Potemtial March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar im· mediately of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the winter term, if they have not already done so. CbrisJ;f~i)Qkt~Y, .· JohtlBerg~~ol'l~ ·. · Ja.ekiBelll , · Jessica A~lsGn . Lisa, l(atz, ~Jolrlocb Albn,Kl per .. ·· JohtrBergercp., RobetilMcGowan · · Q, WUliam Huntley .. ( 1 , l

CONCORJJJENSIS, February 12;.!9~7 Page 11 PAULSCHOP ••. F.-~m the Albany·Desk FuZz Buster Speaks O·ut . Last week, ,Coneordiensiff Science, H~alth, · and Technology section featured an article on radar detectors. ThiS week, Ftom the Albany Desk features an interview with New York State Assemblyman Robert D'Andrea. Assem- blyman D' .Andrea is a Republican representative from the ~OOth dilitri~, wnich includea.. most of Saratoga County. Last year,. D'.Andrea was the prjme Assembly sponsor of .a bill' which would have outlawed the use of \fuzzbusters\ in New ·York ,state. The bill met with very strong oppo~ition.. One anonymous individual even went so far as to return a.· copy of this bill to the Assem- blyman's Albany office with the words, ''Drop Dead,'' em- blazoned on it. Q;) · WUl you be reintroducing an anti.,fuz:zbuater bill this session? A.) Yes, I will. It has so far received very little support in both the Assembly and the Senate. I will still push for this legislation because these devices have only on,e purpose, and that is to break the law. Therefore, these devices should be outlawed. Q.) Do you see any chance of the Congressional compromise on the 55 miles ·per hour speed limit being enacted, soon? This compromise would allow any state that .outlaws radar detectors to raise its speed limit to 65. miles ~r hotn:'. A.) I don~t know. 1 haven't talked with my Congressman lately~ l wo111Q. like to see the federal government outlaw thetn.nationwide. r wolild like. to see the .manufadlll'e, use and possession of them made illegal. I suppoit tn~ raising of · the speed l~t to 85 miles per hour. OritheNorthway,65 miles pef hour should be. the speed. However, we shmuld -strictly enforce this speed limit. On a recent radio- call-in 'show, I hea,rd a woman complain that if the state tried to enforce the 55 miles per hour spe:ed limit that the police would have to arrest 80 percent of the drivers on the Northway. I feel that if the governor were to go on television and say that. anyone brea.king the speed limit would· be ticketed~ even lf they were only going 57 or 1 58 miles per hour; that enforcement ·of the currtmt 55 miles per hour speed limit Would be feasible. I know that if this were to happen, that I w~nud slow down :from 64 to 55 miles p.er hour. Q.) As a Republiean· member of the legislature, wbat do you :;ee as yourparty's,goals for this year's session? . A.) One of the major things that we want thls year is tax cuts. We believe that the statfi!'S taxpayers should ~get back the $2.3 to $2.4 millioii in windfall taxrevenuesthat N~wYork will get due to the new federal tax code. This is a figure which everyone except Gove~nor Cuomo agrees UpOn for the sue of this windfall. In addition,. WJe ShoUld also cut out state's t~x rates, wbich are th~ highest in the nation.-We feel that we ne-ed to this in order to encourage tlle creation of new jobs . and economic grow.tf! in New Y<>l\k. On the issue of the insuran.ce crisis in New York State; I woqld like to see a cap on paia and suffering awards, as weiLas more work on the insurance ill ·general. Recently, a Manhattsll jury awa.-ded $65 million in a liabUity case. It wa,s reducede11 an appeal to only $1 million. It seemed that last year, th;at ever~ insurance comp~ny tripled. and quadrupled their' profits. We need to d() something about these problems. In the case qf liability in- surance, the rates that some cities and towns have to pa~ have gotten so expensive th.at they liave had to cut back v11 some services that they have traditi()nally provided. F.:>[' example, in Saratoga Springs,. there will be no more sledding in Congress Park, because tme city can no longer afford the liability insurance to cover tllis _ activity. This year, some to \VIIs have been saying that they hawe ·only had a 10 percent increae;e in their liability rates over lMt year. They are feeling relieve& after having their liability rates: tropled last year. •. T.f:le S·oc;iat Co~mittee p·resertts:. . , *·** · Winte,fest 1987 *** . Thursday February 12 * Panhellenic Cabaret- Old Chapel8:3().p.m. * t·shirt sales·- West and Old Chapel .during lunch and dinner $5 Friday ·February 13 * t-shirt sales· West and Old Chapel during 1ut:!chand dinner $5 * Valenti.ne's Day Dinner- Hale House upper and lower Jounge. Last time to purchase tickets tonight at Old Chapel during dinner. Tickets one meal punch or $5per person. Menu· prime rib or chickenpicatta. *Movie- 11 Pretty in Pi.nk\ SS016 at 7, 9, 11 p.m. $1 *Fraternity parties- 9 p.m.-? -Alpha Delta Pi -Beta Theta Pi -DE!Ita Phi -Psi. Upsilon ·-Sigma Chi -Zeta\Beta Tau -Theta Delta Chi Saturday February 14 * VendQrmart- Old Chapelll: 30- 4 p.m. -i ewel ry It-shirts, records and more ... *Psychic Linda McGraw- will tell your future ·Old Chapelll :30-4 p.m. Free. ·Group Show 2 p.m. Hale House Lowe-r L,ounge *College Bowl- round 1·8 in SS 0161-5 p.m. *Scavenger Hunt- HU1153~4p.m. ·Teamsof4 -PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES *Slide on the West Beach Slide 1-5 p.m. -get rn agic sleds at West College -Hot chocolate when you return sleds *Union College Hockey Game- rink at 2 p.m. *Union College Men's Basketball- FieldHouse 8 p.m. - *Movie- upretty in Pink\ SS016 7, 9, 11 p.m. .. **·*****-it* * Band - The ROCK BRIGADE Old Chapel 9-l a.m. featuring music from Who, the Firm, the Dead~ Led Zepp.elin and more. *·*******\** Sunday February 15 * SKIINGATWlLLARDMOUNTAIN* . -tickets for those wishi.ng to go on school transportation sold on a first comelirst served basis at Student A.ctivites Old Chapel. ·$.51iftltransportation. Rentals are responsibility of the individual. ·-people wlshng to rent must leave boot size at ticket booth. -Students wishing to use own trans~o.rtation must present 1 D card for discount rate at Willard. ***.Bus leaves U rHori at 11 :30 fro.m bel:! ind Wells House and leaves Wi liard at ~s p.m. - COMMENTARIES THE FI'NANCIAL AID APPLICATION 1 packet is available in the Rnancial Aid Office for 1987-88. Anyone planning on applying. for aid who has not . received an application packet should · ~- pick one up immediatelye Deadline for the :FAF is March 1st .and for the completed application is April 15th. Contact the Financial Aid Office for more information. •SUPERDAN,CE * FOR MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY IS COMING I!! FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 2·7th ·~ ~ 10:00 p .. m~ - 2:00 a.m;. call 381-4293 cr 37D-8118 tor info • \BETA'S OUT FOR BLOOD\ . ' .. t BLOODMOBILE WILL BE HELD IN DAVIDSON LOUNGE FEB. 18, 19 & 20 11 A~M. TO 5 P.M. WITH SUPPORT FROM BETA'S WE HOPE TO BEAT FALL ~ TERM'S TOT ALOF 244 UNITS. BE THERE .. ANY QUESTIONS OR APP-OINTMENT PLEASE CALLSTUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE: \ X6118 Thanks Beta's Student .Activities Van is.· now available ( F'lfty Mile Radius) For more information check in Student ·Activities Office or call 6129

CONCORDJENSIS, February 12, 1987 Page 11 PAUL SCHOP ..• From the Albany Desk Fuzz Buster Speaks Out Last week, Concordiensis' Science, Health, and Technology section featured an article on radar detectors. This week, From the Albany Desk features an interview with New York State Assemblyman Robert D'Andrea. Assem- blyman D'Andrea is a Republican representative £rom the 108th district, which includes most of Saratoga County. Last year, D'Andrea was the prime Assembly sponsor of a bill which would have outlawed the use of \fuzzbllBters\ in New York State. The bill met with very strong opposition. One anonymous individual even went so far as to return a copy of this bill to the Assem- blyman's Albany office with the words, \Drop Dead,\ em- blazoned on it. Q.) Will you be reintroducing an anti-fuzzbuster bill this session? A.) Yes, I will. It has so far received very little support in both the Assembly and the Senate. I will still push for this legislation because these devices have only one purpose, and that is to break the law. Therefore, these devices should be outlawed. Q.) Do you see any chance of the Congressional compromise on the 55 miles per hour speed limit being enacted, soon? This compromise would allow any state that outlaws radar detectors to raise its speed limit to 65 miles per hour. A.) I don't know. I haven't tal~ed with my Congressman lately. I would like to see the federal government outlaw them nationwide. I would like to see the manufacture, use aad possession of them made illegal. I support the raising of the speed limit to 65 miles per hour. Onthe Northway, 65 miles per hour should be the speed. However, we should strictly enforce this speed limit. On a recent radio- call-in show, I heard a woman complain that if the state tried to enforce the 55 miles per hour speed limit that the police would have to arrest 80 percent of the drivers on the Northway. I feel that if the governor were to go on television and say that anyone breaking the speed limit would be ticketed, even if they were only going 57 or 58 miles per hour, that enforcement of the current 55 miles per hour speed limit would be feasible. I know that if this were to happen, that I would slow down from 64 to 55 miles per hour. Q.) As a Republican member of the legislature, what do you see as your party's goals for this year's session? A.) One of the major things that we want this year is tax cuts. We believe that the state's taxpayers should get back the $2.3 to $2.4 million in windfall taxrevenuesthatNewYork will get due to the new federal tax code. This is a figure which everyone except Governor Cu.()mo agrees upon for the size of tllis windfall. In addition, we shollld also cut out state's tax rates, which are the highest in. thenation. We feel that we need to this in order to encourage the creation of new jobs and economic growt~ in New York. Oa the issue of the insurance crisis in New York State, I wollld like to see a cap on pain andsllffering awards, as well as more work on the insurance in genefal. Recently, a Manhattan jury a warded $65 million in a liability case. It was reduced on an a,J)peal to only $1 million. It seemed that last year, that every insurance company tripled and quadrupled their profits. We need to do something about these pmblems. In the case of liability in- surance, the rates that some citie5 and towns have to pay have gotten so expensive that they nave had to cut back on some services that they have traditionally provided. For example, in Saratoga Springs, there will be no more sledding in Congress Park, because the city can no longer afford the liability insurance to cover this activ-ity. This year, some towns have been saying that they have only had a 10 percent increase in their liability rates over last year. They are feeling relieved after having their liability rates tropled last year. The Social Committee prese~ts: *·** Winter/est 1987 *** Thursday February 12 * Panhellenic Cabaret- Old Chapel8:30 p.m. * t-shirt sales- West and Old Chapel during lunch anddi nner $5 Friday February 13 * t-shirt sales· West and Old Chapel during 'lunch and dinner $5 *Valentine's Day Dinner- Hale House upper and lower lounge. Last time to purchase tickets tonight at Old Chapel during dinner. Tickets one meal punch or$5 per person. Menu- prime rib or chicken picatta. *Movie- 11 Pretty in Pink\ SS016 at 7, 9, 11 p.m. $1 *Fraternity parties- 9 p.m.-? -Alpha Delta Pi -Beta Theta Pi -Delta Phi -Psi Upsilon -Sigma Chi -Zeta Beta Tau -Theta Delta Chi Saturday February 14 * Vendormart- Old Chapelll:30- 4 p.m. -jewelry, t-shirts, records and more ... * Psychic Linda McGraw- will tell your future -Old Chapelll: 30-4 p.m. Free. -Group Show 2 p.m. Hale House Lower Lounge *College Bowl- round 1-8 in SS 0161-5 p.m. *Scavenger Hunt- H U115 3-4 p.m. -Teams of 4 -PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES *Slide on the West Beach Slide 1-5 p.m. -get magic sleds at West College -Hot chocolate when you return sleds *Union College Hockey Game- rink at 2 p.m. *Union College Men's Basketball- Field House B p.m. *Movie-\ Pretty in Pink\ SS016 7, 9, 11 p.m. ********* * Band - The ROCK BRIGADE Old Chapel 9-1 a.m. fea1uring music from Who, the Firm, the Dead, Led Zeppelin and more. ********** Sunday February 15 * SKIINGATWILLARD MOUNTAIN* -tickets for those wishing to go on school transportation sold on a first come first served basis at Student Activites Old Chapel. ·$51ift/transportation. Rentals are responsibility of the individual. -people wishng to rent must leave boot size at ticket boo1h. -Students wishing to use own transportation must present 1 D card for discount rate at Willard. ***Bus leaves Un.ion at 11:30 from behind Wells House and leaves Willard at 5 p.m. COMMENTARIES . TilE FINANCIAL AID APPLICATION 1 packet is available in the financial Aid Office for 19 8 7 • 8 8. Anyone planning on applying for aid wha has not received an application packet should pick one up immediately. Deadline for the FAF is March 1st and for the completed application is April 15th. Contact the Financial Aid Office for more information. *SU.PERDANCE * FOR MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY IS COMING II! FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27th 10:00 ·p.m. - 2:00 a.m. cal 381-4293 or 370-6118 for info. 'cBETA'S OUT FOR BLOOD~' BLOODMOBILE WILL BE HELD IN DAVIDSON LOUNGE FEB. 18, 19 & 20 11 A.M. TO 5 P.M. WITH SUPPORT FROM BETA'S WE HOPE TO BEAT FALL . TERM'S TOTALOF 244 UN'ITS. BE THERE· ANY QUESTIONS OR APPOINTMENT PLEASE CALl- STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE: X6118 Thanks Beta's Student Activities Van is now available {Fifty Mile Radius) For more itrformation check in Student -Activities Office or call 6129

12 19B7 THE ARTS Cabaret ·Jt' s Here to Stay Lovelsln The Art~s A~t Stu,tf.e·nt of The 1Jee~ ~·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·O ByMELISSA'ST~WART Thursday night, February 5, v·· By LIZA LEIDNER the belief in this way: \ror thi$ Q By JULIE.STEINBERG was definitely an entertaining . . . way Se:ynt Valentyne s day, • What does the ArtS Depart- 'eveBing.Immediately following Q Valentme's Day. is often when ev~ry foul ~meth t~er .to C) ment have t~ offer?. More than the Second Annual Speaking • referr~d to as the most chos.e his mate.. 'l'he diarist .• ever, ~ccordin~ to Linda Fisher Competition, I walked to Old 0 romantu: day of ~. e year .. The Sam. · uel. Pepys, m The Paston A who 1s a. s~ruor Arts major, Cb.apel Lower Lounge for the •. costoms mvolved m this holiday l,.etters, tells of a letter by ·W President of the Arts Club, 10:00 show of Cabaret. Due to eptaU the exchange of hearts, Dame Elizabeth B~ws to John. member of the concert com- the overn:helming success of Q ~ither ~omical or ~entimental, Paston, with whom she. hoped to C) mittee, and ~anager of . the the Speaking Competition, the • m wh1ch the f01bles .of the arrange a match for her • Rock·n·Roll .PIZza Pu~. She bas 8:~0 p.m. Cabaret was CJ receiver or the lo~e of t~e daughter: . . . . 1\\. been selected as .Art Student of cancelled. • sender are set forth m prose, m \And cousin m1ne, upon w the Week for her long time :Becky Thayer performed first ,....... V!\rse and . in . embl.emati.c Monday. is Saint Valentine:s day ·• . iilvolvement in various areas of and made. everyone feel v p1ctures. From where did these and everybir~ ~h~seth hunself O the d~ent. A~ presiden~ of welcome With her soothing, .customs arise? a mate, and if lt like you come. the Arts Club, she IS responsible m~lodic voice. Sile began. her (J No reason has .been .found in on Thursday nj.ght and make A for the planning of activities to set with Kansas' \Dust in .the •. the personage of St. Valentine, provision that you may abide w benefit Arts students as: well. as Win .. d'' . and proceeded with r\'.himself. He wrote no love songs till then., I trust God th. at Ye • other. ,students,· interested .. in several hits by. D~ Fog~lberg v or ~on~us . displays of af- shall speak to my husban~ · I Q both the yisual and perfo~g s\lch as \Long Agolt. Becky e fectton 111 prose or verse. He shall pray that we may brmg. arts. Tilts year, the club 1S k~pt. the audience well . en.:. CJ desig~ed no .elegant hearts the·matterto a ;conclusion that A prese~tly undergoing chan_ges .. tertamed as she sang songs , · proclaiming his true love. He we may bring.' . w and hopes to ·offer mor~ fi~xible wlllch she learned as a child,, ~· was a bishop . who .stood The. custom of . sendlng • and. diverse .opportunitles to but she warned everyone before a steadf.ast to his f~th during the valentmes developed~ tbe 17th O stUde~ts .in the future. :J Claudia persecutions. century. These valentmes were. Linda is from fiigbland, New • . . The word ori~in ?f \valen- simple homemade. it~ms. The A York and has been intel!ested in tme\ day shed some light on the 1800's saw the begmnmg of the w art, sketching, and painting in 0 issue. at hand. The first great conunercial valentine. Since • particular, ever since she can • EngliSh dictionary, Baileys, that time, sending cards onCJ remember. She was abl~ to Q gave the origin of the valentine Valentine's day has become A attend a high school which • in England as follows: \About a multimillion dollar business A. offered a great deal of this time of year-month of for Halhnark. Children make w flexibility and was,. tberefore, Q Feburary--the Birds choose valentines out of construction. giventheopportunitytodevelop • their Mates, And paper and crayons and drop O her talent. Aside from taking c., Probably Thence Came them i~ th~ Valentine's box ~o,..., courses at Un~on, she also • THE Custom of the YoWlg Man be distributed to thetr v studied in France on a tenn and Maidens choosing Valen- classmates on that special day .• abroad from Union and on a 0 tines, or special loving friends Parents send valentines to tlleir CJ separate term of independent A on that Day.\ The custom of children, lovers exchange • study last year. Through the 0 challenging someone to be your valentines with one another, ·M years, she has come to favor .• valentine (i.e. Be my valen- and secret adlnirers seem to V. Neo-baroque . .She describes her tine.) had conunenced by the surface on this day. style as \... N eo-baroque done C) days of Shakespeare. Ironically enough, even with CJ with oil. It leans toward realism e There are many theories all the .commercial aspects of • and. . I use traditio!lal ()about how the ·name of the holiday, the most famous M techmques.\ After graduation, • \Valentine\ came to be con· valentine's statement still v she plans to attend graduate nected to the day on which remains: . • school and continue .Painting. Olovers send tokens of their af- \Roses are r.ed, violets are a. Her ultimate career goal is to Becky Thayer .fection to one another. One blue, • become a prof.~ssor at a liberal by Jan Goldstein 0 ~lief thr?ugholit rural ~urope S~~ar is sweet, and so are W art~ school. 'She fir~ came to she began, \You're not going to .~ the M1ddle Ages sa1d that you. . · . Umon . because 1~ h~s a understand this song so don't A btrds began to mate on Signed, Guess Who? • reputation for stressrng liberal even try!\ As the cro~d filled in wValentine's Day. Chaucer, in his . That secret ad;nirer is up to C) Becky lifted everyone's spirit • Parliament of Foules, refers to hts or her old tr1cks! • ~ith ~he Simon and Garf~kel W JeO•Q•Q•QCQCQeOeGeOeOeOQ classtc, \The 59th Street Bridge · · · Song\ and also included several songs from GodSpell which are amo~gst her personal favorites. Melanie Masterson jnined Becky on stage f()r \By My Side\ and the two performed this song with nice harmony. Becky ended her time on stage with Cat Stevens' ''Moon- shadow\ \The Body Electric\ from the movie, Fame, and finally \Day By Day\ from Godspell where she encouraged Jimmy Havard by Jan Goldstein the audience to sing along. Afterward. I asked several peopl~ What they thought of Becky Thayer and Chidsey Dickson well described it: ''Becky had a J oni Mitchell type voice that was quite easy to listen to.\ . Next up wer.e Jimmy Havard and Jeff Winter !fhO quickly got the crowd moying as they opened their set with Jonathan Edward's \Sunshine Go Away\. After a couple classic oldies by Led Zeppelin, Jeff Continued on J18ge 13 · START WINTERFEST ••• TONIGHT PANHELLENIC CABARET CONTEST . 8:00 OLD CHAPEL FREE FOOD/BEVERAGES BY THE SOCIAL COMMITTEE TICKETS $2 AT THE BOX OFFICE SPECIAL GUEST APPEARANCE: ~ THE UNION JAZZ BAND J • Vice President D'Andrea • Professor Ross • Professor Preslaff ALL PROCEEDS GO TO THE SCHENECTADY RAPE CRISIS CENTER 111111111111 i llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll tllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll II lllllllllllllillllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll What has a Caucus-Race, a croquet- match, comfits, and a bumming bird?? Alice In Wonderland Nott Memorial Theatre February 24-28, 1987 8:00 p.m. $3.00/Students; $4.00/Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission 1111111111111111111111111! 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 !1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Ill 111111111111 Linda. Fisher arts and thQught that she woUld be provided with an opJX!rtUility to pursue. a variety of mterest$ •. She· iS veey .satisfied with the education that she has received here, despite probiems within the Arts Department durin.g her earlier years~ She is very glad to see that the department is' beginning· to become strong again. \It's booming and I'm very glad to s~e it. . •. Enrollment is up five times and they're hiring new profe$Sors who have a lot to offer.\ These professors have pr.ovidedthe department with a· new energy. They have ideas about building new art studios and inviting well-known artists and performers to Union to lecture anc critique student's work. Linda says, \.If they .get off tile · groWld, it will be fabulous. We really need new art st11dios. Right now, there's no ro()tn to work.\ All that is needed to begin these programs is the support of the ad- ministration. Con.cordiensis congratUlates Linda. for being selected as Art Student of the Week and wishes her the best of luck in the future. t.. CJ) a. a. 10 :lii! 4: > .0 0 .... 0 .c D.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, February 12, 1987 THE ARTS Cabaret Love Is In It's Here to stav The Arts . Art 8tutlent of TBe Wee~ By JULIES'l'ElNBERG ~~D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D·D ByMELISSASTEWART Thursday night, February 5, • By LIZALEIDNER the belief in this way: \For this 0 was definitely an entertaining . . , . . way Seynt Valentyne's day,. What does the Arts Departu evening. Immediately following V Valent me s Day 1s often when every foul cometh ther to C) ment have to offer? More than the Second Annual Speaking • referred to, as the most chose his mate.\ The diarist • ever, according to Linda Fisher Competition I walk. ed to Old 0. romantic day of the year. The Samuel Pepys~ in The Paston A who is a. senior Arts major, Chapel Low'er Lounge for the • customs involved in this holiday Letters, tells of a letter by w President of the Arts Club, 10:00 show of Cabaret .. Due to M entail the ~xchange o~ hearts, Dame Elizabeth Brews to John • member of the concert com- the overwhelming success of v either comical or sentimental, Paston, with whom she hoped to C) mittee, . and manager of the the Speaking Competition, the • in which the foibles of the arrange a match for her • Rock-n-Roll Pizza Pub. She has 8:00 p.m. Cabaret was CJ receiver or tlle love of the daughter: A been selected as M Student of cancelled. • sender are setforth in prose, in \And cousin mine, upon w the Week for :her long time linda Fisher Becky Thayer:perfonned first M verse, and in emblematic Monday is Saint Valentine's d.· ay .• involvement in various areas of and made everyone feel v pictures. F~orn where did these and every bir~ chO!'seth himself O the department. As .president of welcome with her soothing, • customs arlSe? . a mate, and if i~ like you come • the Arts Club, she is responsible melodic voice. She began her \) No reason bas been foun~ m on ~~sday mght and m~ke A for the planning of activities to set with Kansas' \Dust in the • the personage of St. Valentme, proVlSlon that you may ab1de w benefit Arts students as well as Wind\ and proceeded with M himself. He mote no love songs till then, I trust God that ye. other students, interested in several hits by Dan Fogelberg v or wondrous displays of af- shall speak to my husband I a both the visual and performing arts and thought that she would such as \Long Ago\. Becky • fection in pr<lse or verse. He shall pray that we mar bring • arts. This year, the club is be provided with an opportunity kept the audience well en~ 0 designed no elegant hearts the matter to a conclusion that · 0 presently undergoing changes to pursue a variety of interests. tertained as she sang S<Jngs \ proclaiming hls true love. He we may bring.\ . · and hopes to offer more flexible She is very satisfied with the which she learned as a child, ) was a bisllop who stood The custom of sendmg A and diverse opportunities ta education that she bas received but she warned everyone before a steadfast to his faith during the valentines developed in the 17th a students in the future. here, despite problems within /\ Claudia persecutions. century. These valentines were. Linda is from Highland, New the Arts Department duril)g her I --./',. ...Al The word oriRin of \valen- simple homemade items. The A Yorkandhasbeen interested in earlier years. ' . · ~ ~ tine\ day shed some light on the 1800's saw the beginning of the W art, sketching, and painting in She is very glad to see that the ( w issue at hand. The first great commercial valentine. Since. particular, ever since she can department is beginning to · . , • English dictionary, Baileys, that time, sending cards on C) remember. She was able to become strong again. 11 lt's \.......\' 0 0 gave the origin of the valentine Valentine's day has become. attend a high school which booming and I'm very glad to • in England as follows: \About a multimillion dollar business A offered a great deal of see it. .. . Enrollment is up five this time (}f year-month of for Hallmark. Chlldren make w flexibility and was, therefore, times and they're hiring new 0 Feburary--tbe Birds choose valentines out of construction. given the opportunity to develop professors who have a lot to Becky Thayer by Ja11 Goldstein • their Mates, And paper and crayons and drop O her talent. Aside from taking offer.\ These professors have C., Probably Thence Came them in the Valentine's box to Q courses at Union, she also provided the department with a· • THE Custom of the Young Man be distributed to their studied in France on a tenn new energy. They have ideas and Maidens choosing Valen~ classmates on that special day. • abroad from Union and on a about building new art studios 0 tines, or special loving friends Parents send valentines to their (J separate term of independent and inviting well·kn<lwn artists • on that Day.\ The custom of children, lovers exchange • study last year. Through the and performers to Union to 0 challenging someone to be your valentines with one another, M years, she has come to favor lecture anc critique student's • valentine (i.e. Be my valen- and secret admirers seem to V. Neo-baroque. She describes her work. Linda says, \If they get tine.) had commenced by the surface on this day. style as \ ... Neo-baroque done off the ground, it will be W days of Shakespeare. Ironically enough, even with (J with oil. It leans toward realism fabulous. We really need new • There are many theories all the commercial aspects of • and I use traditional art studios. Right now, there's Qabout how the ·name of the holiday, the most famous M techniques.\ After graduation, no room to work.\ All that is • \Valentine\ came to be con- valentine's statement still V she plans to attend graduate needed to begin these programs nected to the day on which remains: • school and continue painting. is the support of the ad- O lovers send tokens of their af- \Roses are red, violets are Q Her ultimate career goal is to ministration . • fection to one another. One blue, • become a professor at a liberal Concordiensis congratulates Q belief throughout rural Europe Su9ar is sweet, and so are A arts school. She first came to Linda for being selected as Art >- .0 she began, \You're not going to understand this song, so don't even try!\ As the crowd filled in Becky lifted everyone's spirit with the Sim()n and Garfunkel Classic, \The 59th Street Bridge Song\ and also included sevex·al songs from Godspell which are amongst her !)ersonal favorites. Melanie Masterson j~ined Becky on stage for \By My Side\ and the two performed this song with nice hannony. Becky ended her time on stage with Cat Stevens' \Moon- shadow\ \Tile Body Electric\ from the movie, Fame, and finally \Day By Day\ from Godspell where she encouraged • in the Middle Ages said that you.' I....,.J Union because it has a Student of the Week and wishes birds began to mate on Signed, Guess Who? e reputation for stressing liberal her the best of luck in the future. WValentine'sDay. Chaucer, in his That secret admirer is up to Or-------------------~\\\'!.'!!l'!!\\\''!l\\' A Parliament e~f Foules, refers to his or her old tricks! A . <:,:,, , .• ,,., ... ,,,,;,;,,,,,,, .. ,,.,, OJ•oeoeaeoeoeoeoeoeo•o•ao Jimmy Havard by Jan Goldstein the audience to sing along. Afterward I asked several peopl~ what they thought of Becky Thayer and Chidsey Dickson well described it: \Becky had a Joni Mitchell type voice that was quite easy to listen to.\ . Next up were Jimmy Havard and Jeff Winter \Yho quickly got the crowd moving as they opened their set with Jonathan Edward's \Sunshine Go Away\. After a couple classic oldies by Led Zeppelin, Jeff Continued on page 13 START WINTERFEST ••• TONIGHT PANHELLENIC CABARET CONTEST . 8:00 OLD CHAPEL FREE FOOD/BEVERAGES BY THE SOCIAl COMMITTEE TICKETS $2 AT THE BOX OFFICE SPECIAL GUEST APPEARANCE: J THE UNION JAZZ BAND J • Vice President D'Andrea • Professor Ross • Professor Preslaff ALL PROCEEDS GO TO THE SCHENECTADY RAPE CRJSIS CENTER llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll What has a Caucus-Race, a croquet- match, comfits, and a humming bird?? Alice In Wonderland Nott Memorial Theatre February 24-28, 1987 8:00 p.m. $3 .. 00/Students; $4.00/Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission llllllllllllllllllllli lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll .. N·,EW 1,.9'~ H.us.k~r . OM· tQps tt\t} t-!~W \a~:~i:~J~.t J~~:. : week~' ·T:t:le\·' ··\lde~i '.;f?)a~~~;l\np$ .,.j,;j!>;r.Ji'•'''\''\' ''\\'' ' ; 1 '

. ' CONCORDIEN8/S, Febn1ary 12, 1987 Page l3 3 Va Stars for Schenectady . . . . . - .. Mummensc:hanz Does_n't Come . ' ~ ~ · Symp~ony· Orches.tra· ~ .at Proctor's Theatre and Go Quietly ByEDUN Opening the concert 'With a violin concerto and prernl~:ring George Green's. \.Ari~s-'' ·cer· tainly made Saturday evelling's Scpenectady Symphony co11cert different from past per· fonnances. · Mary Randles exee-uted Mozart's much abllSed Fifth Violin Concerto flawleasly. She was. in absolute command~£ her tone production, futonaticnt and played with utmost clarity. Although the orchestra s~e!Iled to· have rushed the soloist tempo-wise the audience felt at ease with her gr;acefUl playing and many admirable res)ltlnses came from them. I recently heard an~ther Julliard student play the 'SI!IIle concerto with· the .same technical accuracy but a sense of dissatisfaction came from the audience which very likely insinuates that conceit·goers look for more than. ability to play With technical perfection. The bottom line is this, :Miss Randles' tremendoi!S coJltrol would make her a firS:-rate orchestral or · chamber musician · but a tad more showmanship: such as exaggerating the contrasts in a piece and more zest ill her cadenzas, might move the audience more andhelp her solo career flourish-assuming that this is her intention. :Never· theless, she i~ ·promising uul is an asset to the music <:om· munity. The orchestra and conductor Charles · Sclllleider accomp.anied smo''dhly although a spot or tW() needed perfecting--but, only finicky ears might have picked them up. George Green's \Arias'' dedicated to the SSO and Charies Sclmeider, came as a sbock to the audience when they realized it did not have the melodic lines of Mozati and Puccini arias. The five short pieces are quite illtenectual in the sense that it went for effects which brought forth a s~Jecific theme. For example, tlle last pi~ce was titled \Rin:gs\, referring to \things whid1 are· circular like a (finger) ring, and things which have a fallliliar ring.\ The string parts 'Were very light, calling for bits of playing here and there wi:tll solo parts played by principals of flute, viola, cello and violin. These solos were not very technically demanding witll tb.e exception of the violin,. which asked for a little more teclmical trickery and Michael Emery performed his part very -well. The dominating section in. this work were the percussi()nists. The score called for vibraphone, glockenspiel, gongs, vibe, . flexatone irt ad· dition to the standard orch~ral percussion. The five .per· cussionists,. Kathy L!Jwery, Tom Brown, James Iac:ik:etta, Darrin Thorpe and 'David Kirk· patrick w~re impeccably at· tentive, entering and em31Iig at precise moment·s and, .kept co·unt of tpe everchanging rhythms\ · let 'alone their playing. They were essentially ,. the backbone of the work which is why their names are worth mentionihg. The ''·Arias\· collectively made sen.se if one paid close attention to it. The shortness of ~e,ach. piece was beneficial in t~rms of . grasping the Beethoven:an<i'Chopin~tic ears. The orchestra seemed unaccustomed ~o~- playing contemporary work$· •. $Uch as ·thil; but cr~dit is to. be J!~n to Maestro Schneider :for • ~ broadmindedn.ess in en• couraging a new styl~ to the orChestra and to the local audience as well. CQ.arles Schneider appears very ~ediCE:lted to broadening the ' orchestra's repertoire and ability to play stylistically different music; There were snags in the string sections but this is partly due to their being, unfamiliar with the work.Rumor has it that Charles Sclmeider received the \Arias\ score a half-hour before the first rehearsal and he sightMread it. Without reservations, he con- ducted with mastery and commandingly at the per- fonnance. The reaction of .the audience to the Green work was mixed · but that is perfectly un• derstandable. Relatively few pieces in the co:nc:::ert repertoire· were well-liked by the entire audience on first· hearirig. George . Green demonstrated: his familiarity 'of orchestral instruments and the ability - to tltilize them for desired effects; The entire worK made sense and will generate a lot more interest soon: By the way, Mr. Green holds a doc- torate in C()mposition from ComeU University and is also .an acc~mplished violinist. He has played in several or- chestras and hils .made several solo app.earances. He is ~urrenUy on the faculty of Skidmore Coaege. The evenmg's concert ended with Phespighi's Pines of Rome. This familiar orche~ral sh()wpiece is always a treat for the audience. The conductor took it at a crisp but com· · fortable tempo and com· municated his directions to the orchestr~ without any am· biguity. The orchestra was, in general, very responsive although there were ·a few exposed sections which might have been better played by the brass, woodwinds and strings. I guess the audience was forgiving as the ending ap- proached where the brass in the balcony of Proctor's and the percussions literally rocked the house. The wann applause and recalls from the audience were quite frankly, unexpected; juding from tb.e past. I give them three and a half stars out . of five for the evening. . It might have helped the ensemble to have an extra rehearsal to peiisb those un· c~riain spots in the Mozart, By D • .A. ELIOT Last Tuesday I saw the opening act of MWllinenschanz, the three-person mime team tltat delight:J people of all ages. The actors play strongly on the contrast . of colors, .prim.arily black and. Whit-e so that the body · figure of the mime cannot be seen. Each mime wore black tights to · the effect which was out:star1<11ng. The group <~pened the Show with a set of gfant hands and a subsequent roar from the crowd. The two giant hands (one on each -side -of the stage) were made up of the torso of the ,players with the head taking up a small section of the pointer finger. To the untrained eye, My American Cousin RatedPG B+ This week, due to cir- cwnstances beyond everyone's control, neither Jan nor Buddy were able. to attend a movie. Fortunately, this unhappy circumstance has not resulted in the pre-emption of this colunm, this week. Instead of Green and Respighi; reaching perfection rather than being inches away from it. The conductor was always com- pelled to glide through every rehearsal- pressed for precious time. It is a financial con- sideration for an orchestra but it is also something to COI)Sider - in fonning a more perfect en- semble. The orcliestra nevertheless sounded quite ·convincing and the next concert; March 28, should not be missed. It features Dvorak's Eighth Syn:iphony and Violin Concerto (Both are favorites of standard repertoire, feat\U'ing a .fantastic young soloist) and another world premier--Joseph Galletelli's Symphony No. 7, \Pompeii\. February 17, 18, 19th Auditions for a :Spring Term Production of WAtT'LNfi :FOR. BODO'J Sign ups in the Nott- . _\It's A Comedy, Dantmit!\ Sponsored by Mountebanks By Samuel Beckett · there was no evidence of the bodies that were actually running these \hands'' around the stage. When the tw() hands came together repeate<lly as if they wete clapping, tlte crowd responded in like fashion to end the .first scene. It was scenes like the· ~~giant hands\ that kept the atulience intrigued throughout tile .alight. Of course, as seen .()n TV pr<,m<Jt.:ion<al there were the four-legged bugs thatmoved back and forth and the manually molded faces that Cf>uld be made to rEsemble anyone from the Elephant Man to Fred Flinstone to preltistoric mammals. Needless to say, these expressions also received big raves. Jan and Buddy gomg to the movies, Paul has bro11ght the movies home with hirn. This week, the film, \My American Cousin\ will be reviewed. It is a Canadian releaset ami. it is currently available on · videocassette. My American Cowill is a semi-autobiographical ~ccotmt . of a twelve year old girl's struggles to become an ~dult in British Columbia durilll{. 1959. The title of this fihn refers to this girl, Sandra Wilcox's, seventeen year old cousin, who arrives at her door unex· pectedly one evening. During the first tw~thirds of this movie; the American cousin is seen as a spoiled California teena~er w:lio fulfills every Canadian's stereotypical image of what a California teenager is like. For instance, he tirives a 1957 Cadiliac Eldorado. He also list.. ens to rllck music. dresses - - - - . -- - -- -- -- - - -- -- - --- -- The key to the show's success was being challenged by the performers to try and spot · them inside whatever costume they happened to be in. Only on a few occasions could I spot them, thus making the per· fonnance that nmch more ofan illusion. At one point of the $how, they were trying to build a square with many different shaped parts. These parts were all moving around yet there was no evidence of ,the . who were doing the moving. So, as you looked at the stage, all that could be seen were some brightly-colored pieces of a square fumbling aroWld. In ending, these performers were true professionals and did a fantastic job of entertaining the audience. like James Dean, · smokes Marlboros, which he keeps in his T-shirt sleeve, and he disobeys his elders. However t in the last 25 minutes of the film, we see a different side of this character. He is shown to be a confused yoWlg man who is anxious about his girlfriend's possible pregnancy. His now-exposed vulnerability allows him to form a bond with Sandy, who has been desperately searching for somebody who can sym- pathize with her problems as a misunderstood teen. · This film was both produced and written by Canadians. It was filmed in British Columbia, and much of the background scenery is breathtaking. In 1986, this film won six Genie awards, the Canadian equivalent of the Oscar. It is a movie that is well worth renting. Cabaret •.. continuedfrompage12 stepped off stage and Jimmy was joined on stage by :special guest Wendy Richar~. Jimmy and Wendy performed ~- song that Jinuny wrote for his sister. As Wendy left the stage Melanie came back up on stage, now to sing, With Jimmy. Amo1lg the songs they did were Carole King's \Will You Love Me Tomorrow\ Janis Joplin's ''Me & Bobby McGee'', and \Can't Find My Way Home\ by Traffic. At this point Melanie turned her mike back over to Jeff, and after several req,uests . from the audience, .Timmy and Jeff sang Neil Young's \Cowgirl in the Sand\. They ended their set witb Van Halen's \Ice Cream Man.\ The night proved to be quite a success as all seemed to have enjoyed Cabaret. Even the bar ran·-out of ~eer, evElryone seemed to be m gq_Qd \spirits\' expecially Guy \Cl Cabaret gives people the .. op- portunity to get together with friends that they haven't seen in a while (Becky Ruoff) and catch up on things. When I asked Howard Fiedler how he felt about Cabaret, he replied: ''It was an absolutely beautfil selectlon of music, bt;lt we could use a little bit of Metal! \ I would like to thank Ainy Basis for helping me Name That Tune. \SHED THOSE POUNDS\ Ncm. & Thurs B 7:00 Fri. & Sat.· 4:00 @ Dance Studio .. • Host 10 inches \I lost 20 affer a mere 2 weeks' pounds in 1 week\

CONCORDIENSIS, FehruarJ' 12, 1987 Page 13 3 Y2 Stars fo.r Sch·eaectadj •,. Symphony Orchestra •)f.. at Proctor's Theatre Mummenschanz Does_n't Come and Go Quietly By EDLIN Opening the concert with a violin concerto and premiering George Green's \Arias\ cer- tainly made Saturday evening's Schenectady Symphony concert different from past per- formances. Mary Randles executed Mozart's much abused Fifth Violin Concerto flawlessly. She was in absolute command of her tone production, intonation and played with utmost clarity. Although the orchestra seemed to have rushed the soloist tempo-wise the audience felt at ease with her graceful playing and many admirable responses came from them. I recently heard another Julliard student play the same concerto with the same technical accuracy but a sense of dissatisfaction came from the audience which very likely insinuates that concert-goers look for more than ability to play with technical perfection. The bottom line is this, Miss Randles' tremendous control would make her a first-rate orchestral or chamber musician but a tad more showmanship~ such as exaggerating the contrasts in a piece and more zest in her cadenzas, might move the audience more and help her solo career flourish-assuming that this is her intention. Never- theless, she is promising and is an asset to the music com- munity. The orchestra and conductor Charles Schneider accompanied smoothly although a spot or two needed perfecting--but, only finicky ears might have picked them up. count of the everchanging rhythms, let alone their playing. They were· essentially the backbone of the work which is why their names are worth mentioning. The \Arias\ collectively made sense if one paid close attention to it. The shortness of •,e~ch piece was beneficial in terms of grasping the Beethoven and Chopinistic ears. The o·rchestra seemed unaccustomed ~o.. playing contemporary works-, such as this but credit is to be ··l!~n to Maestro Schneider for ''1tis,. broadmindedness in en- couraging a new stylt: to the orchestra and to the local audience as well. Charles Schneider appears very dedicated to broadening the orchestra's repertoire and ability to play stylistically different music. There were snags in the string sections but this is partly due to their being- unfamiliar with the work. Rumor has it that Charles Schneider received the \Arias\ score a half-hour before the first rehearsal and he sight-read it. Without reservations, he con- ducted with mastery and commandingly at the per- fonnance. The reaction of the audience to the Green work was mixed but that is perfectly un- derstandable. Relatively few pieces in the concert repertoire were well-liked by the entire audience on first- hearing. George Green demonstrated his familiarity of orchestral ·instruments and the ability · to utilize them for desired effects. The entire worK made sense and will generate a lot more interest soon. By the way, Mr. Green holds a doc- torate in composition from Cornell University and is also an acc~mplished violinist. He has played in several or- chestras and has made several solo appearances. He is currently on the faclllty of Skidmore College. The evening's concert ended with Phespighi's Pines of Rome. This familiar orchestral showpiece is always a treat for the audience. The conductor took it at a crisp but com- By D. A. ELIOT Last Tuesday I saw the opening act of Mummenschanz, the three-person mime team that delights people of all ages. The actors play strongly on the contrast of colors, primarily black and white so that the body · figure of the mime cannot be seen. Each mime wore black tights to complete the effect which was otrtstanding. The group opened the show with a set of gfant hands and a subsequent roar from the crowd. The two giant hands (one on each side of the stage) were made up of the torso of the players with the head taking up a small section of the pointer finger. To the untrained eye, My American Cousin RatedPG B+ This week, due to cir- cumstances beyond everyone's control, neither Jan nor Buddy were able to attend a movie. FQrtunately, this unhappy circumstance has not resulted in the pre-emption of this column, this week. Instead of there was no evidence of the bodies that were actually running these \hands\ aroWld the stage. When the two hands came together repeatedly as if they were clapping, the crowd responded in like fashion to end the ~irst scene. It was scenes like the \giant hands\ that ke~t the audience intrigued throughout the night. Of course, as seen on TV there were Mummensc nz the fourulegged bugs that moved back and forth and the manually molded faces that c9uld be made to resemble anyone from the Elephant Man to Fred Flinstone to prehistoric mammals. Needless to say, these expressions also received big raves. Jim and Buddy going to the movies, Paul has brought the movies horne with him. This week, the film, \My American Cousin\ will be reviewed. It is a Canadian release, and it is currently available on videocassette. My American Cousin is a semi-autobiographical account of a twelve year old girl's struggles to become an adult in British Columbia during 1959. The title of this film refers to this girl, Sandra Wilcox's, seventeen year old cousin, who arrives at her door unex- pectedly one evening. During the first two-thirds of this movie, the American cousin is seen as a spoiled California teenager who fulfills every Canadian's stereotypical image of what a California teenager is like. For instance, he drives a 1957 Cadillac Eldorado. He also listens to rock music. dresses The key to the show's s11ccess was being challenged by the performers to try and spot them inside whatever costume they happened to be in. Only on a few occasions could I spot them~ thus making the per- formance that much more of an illusion. At one point of the show, they were trying to build a square with many different shaped parts. These parts were all moving around yet there was no evidence of the who were doing the moving. So, as you looked at the stage, all that could be seen were some brightly-colored pieces of a sql.lare fumbling around. In ending, these performers were true professionals and did a fantastic job of entertaining the audience. like James Dean, · smokes Marlboros, which he keeps in his T-shirt sleeve, and he disobeys his elders. However, in the last 25 minutes of the film, we see a different side of this character. He is shown to be a confused young man who is anxious about his girlfriend's possible pregnancy. His now-exposed vulnerability allows him to fonn a bond with Sandy, who has been desperately searching for somebody who can sym- pathize with her problems as a misunderstood teen. This film was both produced and written by Canadians. It was filmed in British Columbia, and much of the background scenery is breathtaking. In 1986, this film won six Genie awards, the Canadian equivalent of the Oscar. It is a movie that is well worth renting. George Green's \Arias\, dedicated to the SSO and Charles Schneider, came as a shock to the audience when they realized it did not have the melodic lines of Mozart and Puccini arias. The five short pieces are quite intellectual in the sense that it went for effects which brought forth a specific theme. For example, the last piece was titled \Rings\, referring to \things which are circular like a (finger) ring, and things which have a familiar ring.\ The string parts were very light, calling for bits of playing here and there with solo parts played by principals of flute, viola, cello and violin. These solos were not very technically demanding with the exception of the violin, which asked for a little more technical trickery and Michael Emery performed his part very well. The dominating section in this work were the percllSsionists. The score called for vibraphone, glockenspiel, gongs, vibe, flexatone in ad~ clition to the standard orchestral percussion. The five per- cussionists, Kathy Lowery, Tom Brown, James Iacketta, Darrin Thorpe and David Kirk· patrick were impeccably at~ tentive, entering and ending at precise moments and. kept fortable tempo and com- '---------------, ----------------------- municated his directions to the Green and Respighi; reaching orchestra without any am- perfection rather than being biguity. The orchestra was, in inches away from it. The general, very responsive conductor was always com- although there were a few pelled to glide through every exposed sections which might rehearsal- pressed for precious have been better played by the time. It is a financtal con· brass, woodwinds and strings. I sideration for an orchestra but guess the audience was it is also something to consider forgiving as the ending ap- in forming a more perfect en- proached where the brass in the semble. balcony of Proctor's and the The orcnestra nevertheless percussions literally rocked the sounded quite convincing and house. The warm applallSe and the next concert, March 28, recalls from the audience were should not be missed. It quite frankly, unexpected, features Dvorak's Eighth juding from the past. I give Symphony and Violin Concerto them three and a half stars out (Both are favorites of standard · of five for the evening. repertoire, featuring a fantastic It might have helped the young soloist) and another ensemble to have an extra world premier--Joseph rehearsal to polish those un- Galletelli's Symphony No. 7, certain spots in the Mozart, \Pompeii\. February 17, 18, 19th Auditions for a Spring Term Production of WA'LT'LNB FOR flODOT Sign ups in the Nott- ''lt's A Comedy, Dammit!\ By Samuel Beckett Cabaret .•• continuedfrompage12 stepped off stage and Jimmy was joined on stage by special guest Wendy Richards. Jimmy and Wendy perfonned a song that Jimmy wrote for his sister. As Wendy left the stage Melanie came back up on stage, now to sing with Jimmy. Among the songs they did were Carole King's \Will You Love Me Tomorrow\ Janis Joplin's \Me & Bobby McGee\ and \Can't Find My Way Home\ by Traffic. At this point Melanie turned her mike back over to Jeff, and after several requests from the audience, Jimmy and Jeff sang Neil Young's \Cowgirl in the Sand\. They ended their set with Van Halen's \Ice Cream Man.\ The night proved to be quite a success as all seemed to have enjoyed Cabaret. Even the bar ran -out of beer, everyone seemed to be m g~d \spirits\' expecially Guy Claveloux. Cabaret gives people the op- portunity to get together with friends that they haven't seen in a while (Becky Ruoff) and catch up on things. When I asked Howard Fiedler how he felt about Cabaret, he replied: \It was an absolutely beautfil selection of music, b1,1t we could use a little bit of Metal!\ I would like to thank Amy Easis for helping me Name That Tune. \SHED THOSE POUNDS\ Mon. & Thurs • 7:00 Fri. & Sat. • 4:00 @ Dance Studio \ I lost 1 0 inches \I lost 20 after a mere 2 weeks' pounds in 1 week\ '

' ..) ' -~---.... . ~ ... -- ~·---... - .... \. .... · Page_14 CONCORD_IENSIS, Febrnt~ry 12, 1987 THE ARTS Arts Briefs \The Subject Was Roses\ The full length two-act play 'The Subject Was Roses,\ by Frank Gilroy, will be presented . as a \second stage'·' production which will be directed by Ed Lange. The story reunited a mother and father with their son, a young veteran back home in the Bronx after three years of combat in World War II. \The Subject Was Roses\ will be · performed at ESIPA at the Egg on Sunday, February 15, at 2 p.m. Tickets ar,-e $5.00 and are available in the Studio Theater. For further information, please call 443-5111. Auditons for Ohio Ballet The Ohio Ballet at Oberlin will conduct auditions in Schenectady on February 25 for an intensive sunnner program of ballet and modern dance training to be held at Oberlin College June 28 - August 1. For information call 216-775-8000. Nancy Lushington Ballet Rambert at Proctor's A single Valentine's Day . Performance of the \Ballet ' Rambert\ will be performed at . Proctor's on Saturday, February 14 at 8 p.m. Johnny& The Triumphs Join the celebration at the Partin~ Glass, Lake · Ave. in Saratoga for the release of Johnny & The Triumps' new LP. The celebration will begin at 8: 30 and there will be a complimentary champagne · toast, munchies, record give . aw:ays, and dance contests Albany Dance Council Presents \Footworks\ The annual Footworks concerts will be presented in the Main Theater of the University Performing Arts Center on · Thursday and Friday, February 12 and 13. General admission is $6.00. Footworks consists mainly of modern and · jazz choreography with some ballet and one work inspired by· · African Motifs. For information or tickets call 442-3997 week· days between 9 a.m. · 4 p.m. · Dance & Music The third part of the Winter Improvisation Series features Lakshmi, a Bhakatanatyam Dancer, T. Viswanathan on flute and vocals, David Nelson, Josepha Cormack, and Mat· thew Allen. This dance and music celebration will be held on Friday, February 13 at 7:30 p.m. in the Arts Studio. Admission is free. Pat Metheny Group Brian Alden presents the Pat Metheny group on Friday, February 27, at 8 p.m. Tickets are $12.50 and $14.50. They are available at all Ticketron Outlets. The Palace Box Office, Drome Sound, and Music Shack (Troy). For more information . call 465-4663. ~ JSU PRESENTS DR. BEN ELIEZER (The Grandson of David. Ben Gurion) WILL BE SPEAKING ON ''THE MEDIA IN ISRAEL,; EVERYONE IS WEL\COME ''Sleep Tight\ By ILYSSEFEINGOLD 'The best part aoout the performance of \Spokesong\ by the Schenectady Civic Players was the art ex:hibition which appeared in the l<>\bby of the theater. Although we were there for a different p~pose, the third annual Sche11ectady public school traveling art exhibition became the main attraction this evening. The audience was sparse and unenthusiastic. The decor was welcoming .and thought. provoking. The _scenery was simple but effective. It is too bad that the performance could not inspire its audience in this way. It seemed obvious to the viewer that the play t<Jok place in a bicycle shop. Different sized wheels occupied th.e stage. A piano sat upstage and to the right ofthe actors and the ()ther furniture. I noi\'nally begin my reviews with an indepth synopsis of the play, but this review cannot contain such an explanation since I found myself deep in sleep for a good portion of the performance. The play begins with promise; the audience is in awe by Tom Ecobelli's entrance on his unicycle. He proceeds to sing the song, \Daisy\ which . reoccurs too many times throughout the play. The play, which takes .Place in Northern Ireland, durmg the 1970's, has an original but unappealing plot. A bicycle shop keeper falls in love with one of his customers, a11d his brother acts as a detering and vindictive obstacle whicb. only confuses and complicates. the shallow plot. ' There are some intense philosophical moments but they seem to be out of place in the context of the plot. For example, a \spectacle ()f a woman on a bicycle is a disgrace before the lord.\ \The bicycle is the last mea11s of personal technology.\ (tran- slation please.) In my opinion, \you're cycling. out; into the future and out of the past\ seems to be the best line in the play-it almost seems abstract enough to be applicable to any recreational activity. It is a shame -that there was not more singing in this per- formance; the ve>ices are probably its only ,saving grace. The actors and actresses seem otherwise disinterested in their characters, the ·other charac- ters and the play itself. Pleasant dreams to those who look -forward to it on the 11-15 of February. Alice ln.Won:derland By JESSICA ADELSON The Manhattfln Project, an improvisational theatre troup, under the direction of Andre Gregory, created a new, con- ceptual version of Louis Carrol's · Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass. The Art Department .is presenting this ver-aion of Alice in ·Wonm d.erland on February 24-28 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. .Mary Callahan Boone is directing the cast of eight actors inrehearmUs requiring extensive gymnastic twnbling and ensemble work because the story is told through movement . . corr~sponding to ~ literal' text. This is not a traditional presentation -of Alice where the actors are dressed in animal suits and J\lice · wears a li~ht blue dress with a White pinafore. The one-act play opens withthe recitation of the poem ''The Jabberwocky,\ which prepares the audience for both a serious and nonsellSical theatrical experience. Each actor, except for Kerrie Ticknor who · plays Alice, portrays multiple characters and signal their change of part by adding a prop or changing body movement or shifting their layers of costuming. The set, an abstracted chess board, creates a surrealistic backgroUnd for this unusual tale. 'transitional scenes, llke Alice falling down the rabbit hole, re shown through tumbling routines. In summarizing Alice In Won· derland Mary Callahan Boone says \as a child you enjoy it ... As an adult you are not only _e 0 entertained but you begin .to see ..~:: the 1111dercurrent meaning and .. e metaphors.\ The play attempts , 'Iii to open the-eyes of its viewers to ti the world on the other .side,of the Cast of Alice In Wonderland looldng glass. It's Winterfest Weekend.! Check Your Schedule for Details. If So. fll· '- <1> > I1J CL > 1J I1J .,_ u (!) 1:: (!) J:: u U) > .D 0 +- 0 J:: a.

· Page 14 CONCORVIENSIS, February 12, 1987 THE ARTS ' ' '·. ~ ••• '. • • ' ' ::.. -:' • ,\. ' • 1. ' • • ' •• -· Arts Briefs ' 6 The Subject Was Roses'' , The full length two-act play • 'The Subject Was Roses,\ by r-·rank Gilroy, will be presented · .. as a ··second stage'' production !}' which will be directed by Ed Lange. The story reWlited a mother and father with their \, son, a young veteran back home , •. in the Bronx after three years of 1 ·i combat in World War II. \The ;~ Subject Was Roses\ will be 'I' performed at ESIPA at the Egg on Sunday, February 15, at 2 p.m. Tickets are $5.00 and are available in the Studio Theater. For further information, please call 443-5111. Auditons for Ohio Ballet The Ohio Ballet at Oberlin will conduct auditions in Schenectady on February 25 for an intensive summer program of ballet and modern dance training to be held at Oberlin College June 28- August 1. For information call 216-775-8050. -o .~ '- - > (!} Vl .c 0. (!} <ll 0 ..., - 0 > <ll (!} - '- :::l 0 u •• ·:> • \ Nancy Lushington Ballet Rambert at Proctor's A single Valentine's Day Perfonnar1ce of the \Ballet Rambert\ will be performed at Proctor's r>n Saturday, February 14 at B p.m. Johnny & The Triumphs Join the celebration at the Parting Glass, Lake An'. in Saratog:1 for the release of JohnnJ & The Triumps' new LP. The celebration will begin at 8:30 and there will be a complimentary champagne toast, munchies, record give aways, and dance contests Albany Dance Council Presents \F ootworks '' The annual Footworks concerts will be presented in the Main Theater of the University Performing Arts Center on Thursday and Friday, February 12 and 13. General. admission is $6.00. Footworks consists mainly of modern and jazz choreography with some ballet and one work inspired by Mrican Motifs. For information or tickets call 442-3997 week- days between 9 a.m. - 4 p.m. Dance & Music The third part of the Winter Improvisation Series features Lakshmi, a Bhakatanatyam Dancer, T. Viswanathan on flute and vocals, David Nelson, Josepha Cormack, and Mat- thew Allen. This dance and music celebration will be held on Friday, February 13 at 7:30 p.m. in the Arts Studio. Admission is free. Pat Metheny Group Brian Alden presents the Pat Metheny group on Friday, February 27, at 8 p.m. Tickets are $12.5() and $14.50. They are available at all Ticketron Outlets. The Palace Box Office, Drome S<>und, and Music Shack (Troy). For more information call 465-4663. ~ JSU PRESENTS DR. BEN ELIEZER (The Grandson of David Ben Gurian) WILL BE SPEAKING ON \THE MEDIA IN ISRAEL\ EVERYONE IS WELCOME ''Sleep Tight\ By IL YSSE FEINGOLD The best part about the performance of \Spokesong\ by the Schenectady Civic Players was the art exhibition which appeared in the lobby of the theater. Although we were there for a different purpose, the thkd annual Schenectady public school traveling art exhibition became the main attraction this evenmg. The audience was sparse and unenthusiastic. The decor was welcoming and thought provoking. The _ ,.;c:enery was simple but effeetiv~. It is too bad that the performance could not inspire its audience in this way. It seemed obvious to the viewer that the play took place in a bicycle shop. Different sized wheels occupied the stage. A piano sat upstage and to the right of the actors and the other furniture. I normally begin my reviews with an indepth synopsis of the play, but this review cannot contain such an explanation since I found mysElf deep in sleep for a good portion of the perfonnance. The play begins with promise; the audience is in awe by Tom Ecobelli's entrance on his unicycle. He proceeds to sing the song, \Daisy\ which reoccurs too many times throughout the play. The play, which takes place in Northern Ireland, during the 1970's, has an original but unappealing plot. A bicycle shop keeper falls in love with one of his customers, and his brother acts as a detering and vindictive obstacle which only confuses and complicates the shallow plot. There are some intense philosophical moments but they seem to be out of place in the context of the plot. For example, a \spectacle of a woman on a bicycle is a disgrace before the lord.\ \The bi.cycle is the last means of personal technology.\ (tran- slation please.) In my opinion, \you're cycling out; into the future and out of the past\ seems to be the best line in the play-it ahnost seems abstract enough to be applicable to any recreational activity. lt is a shame that there was not more singing in this per- formance; the voices are probably its only saving grace. The actors and actresses seem otherwise disinterested in their characters, the other charac- ters and the play itself. Pleasant dreams to those who look forward to it on the 11-15 of February. AI ice In Wonderland By JESSICA ADElSON The Manhattiin Project, an improvisational theatre troup, under the direction of Andre Gregory, created a new, con- ceptual version of Louis Carrol's Allee in Wonderlaad and Through the Looking Glass. The Art Department is presenting this version of Alice in Won- derland on February 24-28 in the Nott Memorial Theatre. Mary Callahan Boone is directing the cast of eight actors in rehearsals requiring extensive gymnastic tumbling and ensemble work because the story is told through movement corresponding to a literal text. This is not a traditional presentation of Alice where the actors are dressed in animal suits and Alice wears a light blue dress with a white pinafore. The one-act play opens with the recitation of the poem \The Jabberwocky,\ which prepares the audience for both a serious and nonsensical theatrical experience. Each actor, except f<>r Kerrie Ticknor who plays Alice, portrays multiple characters and signal their change of part by adding a prop or changing body movement or shifting their layers of costuming. The set, an abstracted chess board, creates a surrealistic background for this unusual tale. Transitional scenes, like Alice falling down the rabbit hole, re shown through tumbling routines. In swnmarizing Alice in Won- derland Mary Callahan Boone says \as a child you enjoy it ... As an adult you are not only entertained but you begin to see the undercurrent meaning and .... metaphors.\ The play attempts iii to open the eyes ·Of its viewers to ti the world on the other side of the Cast of Alice In Wonderland looking glass. It's Winterfest Weekend! Check Your Schedule for Details. ,_.For Art's Articles? If S.o ••• \ Please Tell~ Us Call Nancy alid Julie . at 3·82-1007 u (/) >- .0 0 ,_ c .<:: Q_

- I Arts· Professor Applaudes Indian ·Music . . By.MARJORIEHOFFER One ofthe most exotic ways of escaping ·for winter break is to go to India. Professor Ross (of the Arts Department), recently returned from ·a month's stay where his research in Indian music which he is. compiling for a boDk, took him to the cities of Delhi, Calcutta, Madras, and Bombay. &ss's great love for Indian music began during his undergraduate years at Wesleyan University. While studying world mus'ic, he worked With an Indian drwn• mer. Not e:J~:pectingto find such a high level of composing QUtSide of the Western World, Ross became fascinated With Indian miiSic. Today, he at- tributes ittohaving the greatest influence on his. .composing. Indian music is more vocal than instrumental, concentrating on the sound a line can deliver. With only five to seven notes per llile, tne music says Ross is \beautifUlly put together.\· Spending his junior year of college in northern - India, Ross studied instrumental and vocal aspects of the music. He was able to see it \.ffrst hand for the first time.'' There he learned the Sitar, the Sarangi (both string instruments), and the Tabla (the drum which keeps time). This stimulation led Ross to begin composing his oWn work&. After graduating from Wesley~, he spent two years in Calcutta, or what Ross refers to as his \home away from home.\ He describes it as a place filled with intellectual and energetic people. At this time,. he was traveling and perfoi'IlliJJ.g with. Jndian __ ac.,- compani.s't s: '\'Obviously proficient in Hindi, Ross felt he was treated well by the Asians. One of his greatest memories was read,ing a review that ignored . his American nationality and referred to hiin only as a musician. However, the disadvantages and ad~ V8Iltaf~esto being 80 American seem the same in India as elsewhere in Europe. Most people try to help you, while taxi driver$ take advantage of you. Returning in 1983, he at~ tended a composers' convention in Bombay. Meeting with composers from aU over the world, Ross felt grateful for having the opportunity to offer India bi$. talents. the trip was the time spent in Madras .. He cited it as a ''total delight.\ Not only was it the coolest time of year, but he. also had the opportunity to attend a music festival at that time. Professor Ross a·ppeared exc~tedabo~t the Impr~visati~n Ser1es commg to Umon th1s weekend \Indian Song .and Dance.\ He noted that the dancer is the daughter of Balasaraswati, the most famous dancer in India. She was able to bring the ancient tradition, formerly ''unac- ceptable\ for certain classes, to an art fonn. Her daughter, Lakshmi, will be performing abstract dance and mime along with the greatest American ~ · drummer of Indian music, and 8: the greatest American singer of . m Indian vocals. Most of the dance ··· Q tends to describe the lovelorn · ~ wolnan. It leads into a slow ~ tempo • and describes the sen· .12 suous form of love. Ross feels g the value of this music and o. dance .ought to be recognized more popularly. He believes it istime Westerners look to other cultures for ideas and influence. Even Ross' present work composed of technically ad- vanced equipment is affected by traditional Indian and African music. Professor Ross Ross was able to make his most recent visit with help from an HDF grant. He spent most of his time· gathering research on Amir Kahn, his mentor. Ross believes that the West would benefit as he did from such an artist, and applauds Kahn's ability to \get the most juice out of notes.\ During his four week project, the Professor spoke with ''Gurubahi,'' fellow students of the same teacher, and was able to obtain their tapes as well as tapes from radio stations. He said that on the whole· people were quit~ .. generous .. -Ross .found the most draining aspect of the trip to be his travelinto Bo~bay. In order to arrive there, he had to take a three wheeled motor-scooter to the bus stop, take the bus across tovm while standing amongst ''walltowallpeople,'' and a taxi to Kahn's house-a process that took no less than two On the other hand, his favorite part of Settled from his travels for the meantime, Ross is looking forward to teaching a course in music cultures of the world, and will offer a course in \world mu:sic for composers and performers\ spring term. His next performance is slated for the Panhellenic Cabaret, where he will be playing the bass in company With other jazz per- forme~.s Vice President D'Andrea. and Professor Tann:'s husband. Sen~ Your lDve Uniquely Valentines Day Balloon Bouquets Delivered TilE STUMEQ. 1 020 Ba rett St. (2 Blocks below Union College) Phone orders accepted· an major credit cards PagelS THE ARTS Arts Briefs Orlando Quartet The Orlando Quartet comes to Union College and will perform at the Memorial Chapel on Thursday, February 12 at 8 p.m. The concert is presented by the Schenectady Museum~Union College concert series. It will feature an all-Beethoven program including the String Quartet in F. Op. 59, No. 1 ''Rasumovsky\ and the Quartet in C Sharp minor, Op. 131. . . Tickets are $8 for adUlts and $4 for children. For information call 382-789b or 372-3651. , Three Emerging Irish Artists Garth Fagan's Bucket Dance Theatre at the Egg Mr. Fagan fuses ethnic African, Caribbean, and Jazz dance. He received acclaim in the u.s. and abroad. The compan)' wiU. be in Albany as part of the season's festival of dance presented by ESIPA at the Egg. There is only one performance; so act quickly. Garth F . Bucket Dance Theater can seen on Sunday, Febuary 22, at 2 p.m. For information call 443- 5111. A free slide presentation and Deller Consort dialogue of Irish Artists at Union on Monday, February 16, at 7:30 p.m. in the Arts The Deller Consort will be at . Building Room 215. Alanna Memorial Chapel to O'Kelly, Pauline CWIUilins and concert in the Museum .... v .... ,..,s .. Mary Duffy are the trio of Concert Series on ~ Artists. The show is sponsored February 21 at 8 p.m. ~is vocal by the Capital Area Women's ensemble will perform English Caucus Art (CAWA), the Union and Italian madrigals H' .. ,, ..... h College Arts . Department, · and English ayres (c. Women's stud~es and by well as 2oth century \\'\l5\\\''· .. • Holding Our Own, Inc., a songs. Tickets for the con.cerl~l foundation for women. are free for Union students. ,·. . ' . Feb.HOtt.CaUI~l. Alie. e •.· ~.~oottfM! ..•. ianam the :tf<Jt·t. at 8p.(n. · . · Off Campo: Ohi\l Ballet.atProctor,s ato p.m. . \Beware theJabbeJW~ my son:! Thejaws that bite, the claws that catch! Beware the Jubjub bird, and shun The fru.mious Bandersnatch!\ Alice In Wonderland: It's Not Just Kid's Stuff Pelt. 2701JCamPus: ~ ... DeltJi aiee·2fioo at 7 and lO'inSS0'16 . . ,, ,, . \·· .. ,;{)Jt~JamPJlft' Movie .... JltattW.amoratr&.'1l&amt11i»mSS&18 . .. oal~\ Da~4l-ldP~on Sel'iet in the Petr«tnittg Arts Studio at 7:30 •• - • • • • • • > ~

CONCORDIENSJS, February 12,1987 Page 15 Z a:u::m:azn THE ARTS Arts Professor Applaudes Indian Music Arts Briefs By MARJORIE HOFFER seem the same in India as elsewhere in Europe. Most people try to help you, while taxi drivers take advantage of you. Returning in 1983, he at- tended a compesers' convention in Bombay. Meeting with composers from all over the world, Ross felt grateful far having the opportWiity to offer India his talents. the trip was the time spent in Madras. He cited it as a \total delight.\ Not only was it the caolest time of year, but he also had the opportunity to attend a music festival at that time. Professor Ross appeared excited about the Improvisation Series coming to Union this weekend \Indian Song and Dance.'' He noted that the dancer is the daughter of Balasaraswati, the most famous dancer in India. She was able to bring the ancient tradition, formerly \unac- ceptable\ for certain classes, to an art form. Her daughter, Lakshmi, will be performing abstract dance and mi.tne along with the greatest American Orlando Quartet Garth Fagan's Bucket Dance Theatre at the Egg One of the most exotic ways of escaping for winter break is to go to India. Professor Ross (of the Arts Departlnent), recently returned from a month's stay where his research in Indian music which he is compiling for a book, took him to the cities of Delhi, Calcutta,. Madras, and Bombay. Ross's great love for Indian music began during his undergraduate years at Wesleyan University. While studying world music, he worked with an Indian drum- mer. Not expecting to find such a high level of composing outside of the Western World, Ross became fascinated with Indian music. Today, he at- tributes it to having the greatest influence on his composing. Indian music is mere vocal than instrumental, concentrating on the sound a line can deliver. With only five to seven notes per line, the music says Ross is \beautifully put together.'' ; drummer of Indian music, and 2: the greatest American singer of m Indian vocals. Most of the dance ~ tends to describe the lovelorn <1: woman. It leads into a slow b' tempo and describes the sen- -E suous form of love. Ross feels _g the value of this music and o.. dance . ought to be recognized The Orlando Quartet comes to Union College and will perform at the Memorial Chapel on Thlll'sday, February 12 at 8 p.m. The concert is presented by the Schenectady Museum-Union Coll.ege concert series. It will feat11re an all-Beethoven pr~grarn including the String Quartet in F. Op. 59, No. 1 \Rilswnovsky\ and the Quartet in C Sharp minor, Op. 131. Ticltets are $8 for adults and $4 for' children. For information call 382\'7890 or 372-3651. Three Emerging Irish Artists A free slide presentation and dialogue of Irish Artists at Union on Monday, February 16, at 7:30 p.m. in the Arts Building Room 215. Alanna O'Kelly, Pauline Cummins and Mary Duffy are the trio of Artists. The show is sponsored by the Capital Area Women's Caucus Art (CAWA), the Union College Arts Department, Women's studies and by Holding Our Own, Inc., a foUildation for women. Mr. Fagan fuses ethnic African, Caribbean, Modern, and J a2z dance. He has received acclaim in the U.S. and abroad. The company will be in Albany as part of the season's festival of dance presented by ESIPA at the Egg. There is only one performance so act quickly. Garth Fagan'' Bucket Dance Theater can seen on Sunday, Febuary 22, at 2 p.m. For information call 443- 5111. Deller Consort The Deller Consort will be at Memorial Chapel to give a concert in the Museum College Concert .Series on Saturday, February21 at 8 p.m. This vocal ensemble will perfonri English and Italian madrigals French and English ayres (c. 1600), as well as 2oth century English songs. Tickets for the concert are free for Union students. Professor Ross Spending his junior year. of college in northern · India. Ross studied instrumental and Ross was able to make his vocal aspects of the music. He most recent visit with help from was able to see it ''first hand for an HDF grant. He spent most of the first time.\' There he his time gathering research on learned the Sitar, the Sarangi Amir Kahn, his mentor. Ross (both string instruments), and believes that the West would the Tabla (the drum which benefit as he did from such an keeps time). This stimulation artist, and applauds Kahn's led Ross to begin composing his ability to ''get the most juice out own works. After graduating of notes.'' During his four week from Wesleyan, he spent two project, the Professor spoke years in Calcutta, or what Ross with \Gurubahi fellow refers to as his \home away students of the same teacher, from home.\ He describes it as and was able to obtain their a place filled with intellectual tapes as well as tapes from and energetic pecple. At this radio stations. He said that on time, he was traveling and the whole people were quite performing with Indian ac· generous. Ross found the most companists. Obviously draining aspect of the trip to be proficient in Hindi, Ross felt he his travel into Bombay. In order was treated well by the Asians. to arrive there, he had to take a One of his greatest memories three wheeled motor-scooter to was reading a review that the bus stop, take the bus across ignored his American town while standing amongst nationality and referred to him \wall to wall people,\ and a taxi only as a musician. However, to Kahn's house-a process that the disadvantages and ad- took no less than two On the vantages to being an American other hand, his favorite part of more popularly. He believes it is time Westerners look to other cultures for ideas and influence. Even Ross' present work composed of technically ad- vanced equipment is affected by traditional Indian and African music. Settled from his travels for the meantime, Ross is looking forward to teaching a course in music eultures of the world, and will offer a course in \world music for composers and performers\ spring tenn. His next performance is slated for the Panhellenic Cabaret, where he will be playing the bass in company with other jazz per- formers Vice President D'Andrea and Professor Tann's husband. Deller Consort Arts Happenings Feh.l~ On Campus: The Orland() String Quartet at 8p.m. in the Meml)rial Chapel. OOCampus1 Footw,rks at-SUN'YA UniverSity Performing Arts <;enter at 8 p.m. for information ti24997. Feb.l3~~s: Movie .. prettf In Pink at'!, 9, 11 p.m. inS$016. · ao~~\'~';. • ~~ .. ~~ :>''?:?:''\ Send Your Love Uniquely • ~~ ~~--.-~'...~,~~-,~.·'l:ValentinesDay.Balloan §. C ,>~\iN ~~': ; Bouquets Delwered • · ~ ' ' :\) '}t ~ ~\\\\ .~f;<l> ' it! v (. t. t ,, .. !,!;'/: J' • · On ~us; Indian Dance and :Music at 7:30 in the-Performing Arts Studio. Qff,CampuS.: Footworks .at SUNY A Unive-rsity Performing Arts Center at 8 p.m. for Feb.lUiappy · information4A2-3997. · , Valentine•s Day On Camplls Movie .. Pretty In Pink at '1 t 9t 11 p.m. in SS016. Off Campus: Ballet Ramber at 3 p.m. at Praetor's. • l_ .. _:~:.~-~(.··.>-·-·· TilE v ~~1q? STUMEQ ~ • .. ~ t/ \ ~ v C ~ 1020 Barett St. • e / ~ (2 Blocks below Union C \\. ~ College) ~ • ft \<o ~\\\\ w !. v • • i Phone orders accepted -all major credit cards ~ a o ~ Beautifo.l Balloon Bouquets Delivered ~ . e by our costumed couriers to • a you valentine's door. 0 . ~ ....... ..,.~ .. ~· -·~· -~~ . i ~~~!~~~~~~4i:~. ~ oaaeoeoeoeoeoeoeoeoeoeoea4 Feb. 15 On campus~ Movie· Pretty In Pink at 7, 9, 11 p.m. in 83016. Off campus: Play .. ''The Subject Was Roses~' at 2 p.m. at ESIPA at the Egg. Feb.16 On Campus: Three Irish 'Women Artists at 7:30p.m. in Arts Building Room 215. Feb.17 On Campust Movie\' The lUg Chill at 'l, 9,11 p.m. inSS016. · ()n Campus: Auditions fo:r ~·waiting for God&t,\ sign up at the N.ott thru Feb. 19. Off campus: Play- ''OfMiceandMen,\ at8p.m.atProetor's . Feb.18 Off Campus: Johnny and the Triumphs at 8:30p.m. at te Parting Glass, Lake Ave. in Saratoga. Feb.ZOOnCampus: Movie .. Top Gunat7,9, llp.m.in SS016. 00 Cmnpus: Festival On Ice at Proctor's at3 p.m .. Feb. ~1 On campus;. The Deller G<msortinMemorial Chapel at 8 p.m. On Camplt$: Movie- Top cG-unat 7. 9,11 p.m. in SS016. Off Campus: Festival .Ot~lee at Proctor's at& p.m. Feb. 22 On.Catnplls:' Movie .. Top Gun at 7t 9, 11 p.mJn SS016. , Off(;•pus: BucketDanceTheatreattheEggat2p.m. Off cantpus: Festival On lee at Proctor's at 2. p.m. and 8 p.m. Feb. 23 On Campus: Movie .. Yottng Torless ~t7 p-.m. in SSol6. Feb. MoB Campus: Movie-Midswnmer Night's Sex Comedy at 7, 9,11 p~m. atSS016. On Campus: Alice in Wonderland at the Nott at 8 p.m. Off Campus: Music Festival at SUNY A's Performing Arts Center at6 p.m. Feh. 25 on CstnpiiS! Alice in Wottderland in th~ ~ott at3 p.m. Feb. 26 On Campqs: Alice in Won.ilerland in the Nott at 8 p.m. Off CamptU: Ohi-o Banet at Proctf>r's at 8 p.m. Feb. 2'1 On Calnptd: Movie .. Death Race 2000 at 7 andlOin SS016. On-Cmnpu: Muvie .. RoadWarrioratth20and·lli20fuSSOHt On campus: Traditioll of. Improvisation Series in the Perfonning Arts Studio at 7:3{) er~alllG me J~OU;a·r;. 8p.m. tl\fe!~~C:ti&pelat'i:SO p.Jn. . . ::·~·- .:.. - 0 >- ell QJ +- '- ::> 0 u

\ I t ., . INTERNSHIPS T.he Thomas F. Pilmer, Jr. ScllGlarsbip-Jtuliors who are · plmning to pursue the five-year combined degree program with tile Institute of Administration ancl Management (14M) are eligible for $8,000 in scholarship assistance through the Purner Sch()larship-Fellowship. The award in senior year is $3,000 (based on financial need) and wiU continue ·as a $5,000 fellowship in the 5th year. If you are thinl.Q.ng abo-ut staying the eKtra to cQmplete a Master's degree, please contact Prof. ArMld in Bailey Hall (x 6237) before the ,end of Winter term, for il.U'ther information. \l'he .National College Intem- sh.ip Serviee, specializing in internship development for C()}lege students, is now ac- · cepting ap~licatio~~ for Swnrner HJB7 mternsh1ps. :Placements are available wi.1ll sponsoring companies in New York City, on Long Island a11d in Westchester. Placements are individually designed, fully Sll]Jervised and evaluated. New for 1987: more paid internships. OFFICE WITH A VIEW The Peace Corps is an exhilarating two year~xperiencethat will last a lifetime. Working at a professional level that ordinarily might take years of appren- ticeship bock home, volunteers find the career growth they're looking for and enjoy a unique experience in the developing world. International firms and government agencies value the skiLls and knowledge mastered during Peace Corps service. INFORMATION & FILM F&bruary17-7 pm CarEer Development Center • • • • INTERVIEWS F&bruary 18th 9om-5pm career Development Center Ph.370-6176 Maltl/Science and En~ineerlng Majors Welcome I Peace Corps The toughest job you'll ever love. CONCO.RDJENSIS, February 11, 1987 Plea~e call or write for ap- plicati()ll material: National College lnternship Service, 374 New Y\o!'lc: .Avenue, Huntington, · New Y Cl~k 11'143 (516) 673-0440 or contact y·our career and in- ternship placement offices on campJUJ~ CLUB NEWS Valentl11e Visit to St. ,Saturday-, .February 21, at 1630 Nott :Street. Theme: Trust. Donation .of $5 when' you register 'With Sr. Joan. Tut4ltl'~l Program-Union College students are needed in the f()D()Ii\ling areas at St. John the El\i18.1Jgelist School: Kin· dergart~n, Computer and. Math Aides ar!dMath & Reading on a one t() ()nE; Please contact Lisa Mercug]iano, Fox 252, 286-4183. Clare's.....&attJ.rday, Februa:fy 14 Sb.ut·l!ls-Any Union C91lege · anyone ,\'\'ho wishes to spend one student ,wb.o wishes to visit a hour visiting patients who have . shut-in. of St. John the been h~pitalized for . a long . · Evangelist Parish on a regular · time on Geriatrics please meet basis <luring these long winter at Old Chapel Plaza at 12:30 · montlls .please contact Mark p.m. We will bring flowers. Slags, So-uth 102, 38644BO. Newmllll :Club Theatre Party......:Saturday, Confirmation-April 26 BisbQp Howard Hubbard· will- · administer the Sacrament of· Collfinnation in St. John tbe Evangelist. Church. Union · College·students are invited 'too. Contact Sr. Joan. CLASSIFIEDS Allyson- 393--6113, Loolting for • · female non-.smokerto have own Reappointment Review. Recommendations relating to the lteappointment Review for Ann Babits, Acquisitions and Serials Librarian, are now being solicited. All interested students, faculty, and staff are encouraged_ to contact . Ann Seemann, Librarian, x6277. · bedroom • 1508 Union St .. • just after McClellan. Parking in the The film committee presents: back~ Full bath, ·kitcl;len,. family Feb. 13-15, Pr.etty in Pink at 7, . room, $190 per month includes '. 9,. and 11. heat. Available Sunday Feb.l5. • • Feb. 17, The Big Chill at 7, 9, and 11. · ~. One sofa - 2 seater ; $75 cash · · Tickets can be purchased at and carry. Call 346..o432. Old Chapel for $1. , F'ebruat;y-'1.4, Ballet Rambert at P'roctor~s. If you wish to go in a group meiltat Old ·chapel Plaza at 7:30p.m. and we will pick up The 1 nternational· Relations Club Presents: 'half-prit::e tickets for $9, $7 ;so or $5.50. Games Evening-Monday, F'ebruarr 16 at 7 p.m. Hale House I.ovver Lotlllge. All in- vited t() JJlay Trivial Pursuit, S()ruple.s, etc. Folk l1l'~Ull...;.AU singers and musiciaJis interested in being partoftl1eNusic Ministry at the 7~30 p.m\ Liturgy at St. John's may meet with Friar Phil at · 6: 30 p.m. Ill the Church· to rehearse. Overlllght Retreat-Resc- heduled :fu 5 p.m., Friday, February 20, until 5 p.m. Defense In the Federal Deficit: U.S. Needs Soviet Challenges Wednesday, February 18t;h. at 7:30P.M. Hale House, Lower Lounge, All Are Welcome! ' PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz ,. ,. SOMEHOW, r DON'T THlNKnas WAS SlJCH A GOOD IDEA .. I DIDN'T 6ET AN~i '/ALENTINES, AND t-j()U) ·I'M STUCK :IJ.l TIAE MAILBOX! · . FORTUNATELY, ® NOThl IN6 WORSE ~ CAN HAPPEN •. I J fl. ~It I [ I U IJ h ~· f\ .~ , lrJII . ·-·~ .. ~. \ ! \ A ~ }~ \ 'l \ I' . (_... _\, ·......____..,./ f. I I II I r I I ! l ' I j i ! ' ! ' ' l t ' 1 11 s A b b v (l ' - SJ D Y4 H Cl w WI m sv fl< L fl 1i

CONCORJ)I£NSIS, February 12, 1987 Happy Valentine~ Day! ·,., . PERSQNALS Idiot, ' Roses are red Violets ate blue ,..... __ \\!\\\'lllllillio- .... ~----'· ·~ One more rhyme to tell you DGN~I love yQu, Happy- That I love you back too!! Heart Day! · · SEC . ' Tony B: F{appy (early!) Valentine's O•ay ... guess wllo .• ,yo:ur secret Valentine Hey Patti, the wonder of it aU. · You wollld .honor me if. you . would let me WiSh you a Happy . Valentine's Day! L, LO, LOV, .._ LOVE. YA Dave Hey Ruffing . HeeeYY Ruffing HaHeeeyy Ruffing Psyched for D.C.? · Bye-Bye :winter term!! Desperately Seeking: C. Weaks you hold the lo~k, we hold. the key, angel. Respo11d to: Box 1369 ' CRASH- B'ers: Good luck in ' Palil II. Maybe next time you : .Pambridge, but please don't won't get out. Ha!! . . die, because then who will get · Da 301 Laugh Boys ·,. the boats off the trailer in Tenn? -Women's Crew Janie- Only 9 · sorry 10 days to go. I'm still glad you attached me · · at. D Chi---Happy Valentine-'s Day, I Iniss you. Bob }[ey Slapshots gang! Here's tllat per~nal! I want to have an .:Jf yoa·r· -childrcen! -hove, -a .. · member · It was very nice talkillg to you · Sweetpea · after allthis. time. Stop by after Happy Valentine's Day! work any time. -A Love, Ho Ho Ho Room 205 Fox South Three American s-s living in a hole on tile corner of my floor! Ahhh Eeeek! ! Stinky SIJ.ady - Who loves you babe?? I will always love you. Happy Valentine's Day! l lihve, yourlittlepuddle J.R.G.M. Anothel:\ added dimensi()n! How arE yott? -F.H. Rebecca, Guess what??· That is what!! Happy February filth. Jim Stuart and Alex n 1 may not be a :l~ve kitten, but I'm YQUI: secret valentine. • Ein'BJ, . See you guys on the stairs! , M Minday, You know, I've never done Kim Rots! Happy hearts d.ay . ·tllat before. Have you?!! buddy Bub, your better llalf. Mich Woments Crew. Yolll' hard work will pay off in Tennessee ... go the extra mil~! MonAmi- , Take a power ten ·for Polish Springs! GoodLUck-G A-\I cutt come down to breakfast, the plates have all been 'USeli;'\ Will YOll be my Valentine this weekend? Guess wllp? When .I'm depressed <»n ValentJne'.s Day I take Valium ~-RM..:.._ ... a riddle inside a puzZle inside !1:11 · eniglha. This is your life, A.M. Thanks, G, for all your help lB both areas. !;.'YNN - Happy Valentine's ])ay and Happy Birthday! Y()ur afte~oon TV pal and roomie, Meg ])~ve- Happy Valentine's Day, ~Utlshine. I love you .•• a bushel mel a peck! lleppy Valentine's Day ro Pledges! M. Love Delta Gamms . Snapper-Eappy. Valentine's. Sr» .• l'rn working on tbat.date Day. rtwm be GREAT! Love . \ithMarkt Watch out forthose you • BUJ1 . Clllltgerous corn~rs and those , fuw:y navels.- Is it an ex- Hey Lori. L.JnNorth .. Yes yo1t! · tr11vaganza of wonderland Cheer up! Your \Foxy\ s.v. '. ~eeltend?'HW Wanted: Sniglet for a perso11 who isn't qtrlte a girlfriend- yet more than a friend. Send aran · swer via i(lersonals to fourth floor West; Laura Happy V\l!lentine'sDay to my · favorite big sister. Love, your little sister 'Pe(e, watch yolir mail. I'm se11ding you the missing h8lf of yotlr pair. Wow yoll can have at lEIIst one complete set. J!MV 1 had an amazing weekend. \YClu are awesome. Happy 'Valentine's Day! jET Bobin and Sbmoo, We love you guys, · and you should know, . 'That even tltougll we must go,. . You will accept this, and you will adjust. Truly, Weezie andGoldielock$ Just romance and fun, Wrapped up in. one. Pure love and. laughter, Until the day after ... When V.D. is gone, And B.D. arrives . Honey ... Don't be blue . It's just 22! {I'll still love you, Christ ) -Lorie, Reward affered for info leading to the capture of tile Comp11ter Center Heart Phantom, ll!st seen in a yuppie suit near- the Consultant's office. Descrip- tion: approx. 5'4\ red .hair, drinks coke with peanuts in it. Dawn, Thanks for the ride h()me from DG,you wild woman· yDu! Like sugar and spice :He's, oh, so nice. Won't you be mine, Birthday Valeintine? · . Love, Goldielocks Happy Valentine's Day to the sisters and pledges of Delta Delta Delta Love, Ames & Lester J.D.' Have an amazing weekend. Ei Delta Sisters: Kill my landlord, kill my landlord, kill my landlord K-I-L-L my land lord dead. Happy Valentine's Day, D._s. Third Floor Fox North: Happy Valentine's Day! Jen, Happy Valentine's Dayt Love Little Sis Happy Valentine's Day A.R. Dear Steven: Will you be my · valentine? Happy Valentine's . Day, Love Chris P.S. Good luck on tomorrow's exams. KlmQ HAPPY VAlENTINE'S DAY Love, rour Hig· Sis ·. Su&ness & Freddy Diamonds are a girl's best friend • Congratulations. Love, us Andrea- . Sleep With one .eye _open! · Delta love, Pledge:~ (lappy. Valentine's Day! To Lee-Ann tauri, Lisa and Robin, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! Love, the SpaghettiChef 2nd Floor West: . Get psyched for Jip,syne. Let's show them whose got the real floor! · -Mark&Barb Daniel- Happy_23rd airthday, Happy Valentine's Day and get well soon! CHRIS- Loveya, Squirt You think you're funny b11t you're not ... Tie yourself in a spaghetti knot ... Mauve Bra To Weeble, 'J.'hanks for being such a cutie ! Jack, Nice guys will finish first!! Love, Chrissy&Janet Happy Valentine's Day · TIM Httdyncia! From your secret admirers! Annemarie: Roses are red, Violets are blue, the love handles are yours, and I could be too! Your secret valentine Fifi, All I need ... is to \Don't tum on the lights!\ get out to the city (the ·Big Big City), throw up mashed potatoes, and dance like a nuclear atom. P .S. Do you know of a shampo() that will get bagel and cream cheese out of the hair. ·· Clean-Are you gonna go out'? Are you gonna get dirty? Stop snoring or I'll have to use the poker.· What Is ·that writing on my calendar anyway? Rocky Bean, Are you well enough so we can be back in the high life again? Time to make the donuts. (Imagine my em- . barrassment!) Gotta love painting the Idol at ll in the morning! Let's hear it fol.\ pledge frostbitten fingers! PIJil, Your loss. IA . Puffy wuffy fluffy be4i[' . . has a certain special flair He knows just what t() say'pnd do to pick me up when I am blue and so my love I must eonfess 'cause puffy wuffy is the 'best l SCOWE.: Pm not a Rapaport · yet but it's just a formality beccaiiSe I love y()u! DOGFEAT .. This early, for ~pring i)reak, We will be offering the · I HATE New York vacati()n. BoO'k early, this offer won't · last! · Panllellenlc Cabaret Co11test tonigb.\ Don't miss it! Don't miss CAB:A.RE:T tonight: 8:00 OLD CHAPEL! Kathie Thanks for being a good . friend, Happy Valentin-e' ;a Day! Love,. your little sister- DonJt be the last to .get your CANDY-GRAM!! DG !Jledges will be selling them till Friday at West and Old ChapeJ during lunch a11d dinner hours! ·. Jessica: You make ~Jery STRANGE noises in the nig-1Jt. I can't· wait to hear wilai you have tD say this weekend: .All . Ears ABBY3: PETE SCOTT 0: P .S. I will guard my master's beod this weekend. BEWARE. Abby Bye · RAUD- Happy Valentine's Day . -I've been having a greatti!Jle. LoveSEO . Happy Valentine's Day - ------- • REH- . Beth Kim & Kim Thanks for putting up with me this week. -REH- Jack Just remember that I care! ''BIG OOLL\ -REH- • Leslie I hope y()ll find that speeial Valentil1e. Keep smiling. L.o'Ve, . your little sister!

Page 18 . CONCORDIENSIS, Febrnar.y 12,.1987 :By MARK ZIMMERMAN This past weekend was the NBA's annual All..Star Weekend bonnanza. This festivity is one oftbe more interesting events in the sports year. The NBA WeEJkend is by far one of the better sports productions of the year. The NHL all-star game is fun to watch because it has the best players in hockey and obviously there will tend to be more excitement than a regular season game, but it does not have the aura of the NBA. The Pro Bowl would have to get my vote for the biggest sleeper in sports. There are always those fans who stay home and watch the game, but how many of these people will say that they bav~ been lcoking forward to the game for days or weeks. The reason for this is mostly because it is played the weekend after the biggest .game in sports. This tends to be anti- climatic for the viewer. :Baseball provides sports fans with a great game and is usually built up very well in the papers beforehand. However, only basketball gives us a weekend of reminiscing, ex- citement, precision and fun. The weekend starts off with the annual old-timers day game. This game features all the heroes from the past eras as well as a bit of nostalgia. This year such old-timers as Pete Maravich and Walt Frazier .showed us that they still have the touch that led them through their great careers.- This game is followed by one of the more exciting parts of the weekend: tile three point shooting com- petition. Participants are given so.seconds to shoot 25 balls from just outside the line. Larry Bird, who seems to win it every year, won it again .when Deitlof Schremp£ missed what would llave been a tying shot. For Bird's eff()rts he received $12,500. The e..vent that most people waited all weekend for, 'I'hE Slam Dmtk Contest, took place on Saturday but was not broadcast untU halftime on Sunday. The crowd was awe struck when contestants, in- clading tbe winner Michael JCJrdan, made 360's, bounce NOT IN THE BOX SCORE Mark Zimmerman dunks and an array of mind boggling slams that would put life into any crowd. The all-star game itself was exciting as well. Following a slow first half which was neither exciting nor interesting, the game became a shootout in. the second half with unlikely MVP, Tom Chambers of tbe Seattle Supersonics, who · scored 34 points to lead the Wests victory. The West was down by two points with no time on the clock when Rolando Blackman was · fouled. Following two 'perfect free throws the .game went into overtime. The West completely dominated the overtime period. The game ended as one of the . highest point scoring games in All.Star history and it was the first' time that the West had won in overtime. There were two heroes in the game. The first was Tom Chambers. The hometown favorite would not even have played in the ganie had Ralph Sampson not suf- · fered a knee injury just a few days before. Laker coach, Pat Riley, whQ coached the West, then added Chambers to the starting line-up. Following Chambers missed slam dunk on the opening shot, things got better. With his 34 points he tied George Gervin a.nd Julius Erving as the third most points in an all-,st;ar game. Julius Erving was the other hero of the day. Playing in his 11th all-star game in the NBA, plus 5 more in the old ABA, this was finally Dr. J' s last appearance. Erving at the age of 36 had decided to retire following this season. CBS paid him a well-deserved tribute during halftiiile. In the game itself, The Doctor had 4 rebounds, 5 assists ~d 22 points, including a 17 footer with 38 secondS left that put the East ahead momentarily. Dr. J was one of the most dominent players in basketball in his priii).e. He will always be remembered by hoop fans. On the whole, the NBA put on a great show this past weekend that was entertaining as well as fun and memorable. Maybe next year when the game is played in Chicago another hometown favorite will put in a historical performance. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS Hoops ••• Continued from page20 averaging 17.7 ppg. He is followed by Joe Romer 12.7 ppg, Tom Beck 11.7 ppg and Neil WJna.wer 11.6 ppg . . . . . . Fox also leads the team in rebounding with 8.1 rpg. Doug Gregory (5.3), Romer (4.7) and Winawer (4.6 J alltrall Fox .... .. Romer's 23 points vs. Skid- more not only was a game-high total, b11t it was also a careef.o high ...... The Dutchmen are home again Saturday, Feb. 14 when they host Albany State at 8:00p.m. Union then hosts RPI on Wednesday, Feb. 18. Bagnoli Takes On New 'Responsibility By DOUGLAS LLOYD Recently, coach AI Bagnoli was made the Assistant to the Director of Athletics here at Union. This new responsibility for Bagnoli comes in the wake ofleaving his job as coach of the men's Tennis team. Coach Bagnoli's interests lie not only in coaching football but also in the administration of all the athletics here at Union. In fact, Bagnoli stated that he could see himself as a Director of Athletics (not necessarily at Union) further down the line in his career. Bagnoli's new responsibilities include making up team travel itineraries, making sure things go smoothly for our home events, and other things such as scheduling the use of buses and vans for our sports teams. Of course, all of this will be done as an assistant to Union's current Director of Athletics, Richard Sakala. With the phenomenal success of Union's football team at the hands of coach Bagnoli ( 43-3 won-loss record in regular season) many rwnors . have surfaced about his leaving to bigger and better things. Well, as of today, coach Bagnoli is still Union's head football coach and he plans on . staying here until the right offer comes along to take him and his family away. Opportunities to coach elsewhere are there but not even the head position at Columbia UQiversity of the Ivy League could lure Bagnoli from his home here at Union. Division II West W L T Pet OVVIII Plattsburgh 19 1 0 .9:50 24 5 0 Hamilton 10 4 0 .714 12 5 0 OSwego 17 7 0 JOI 17 7 0 RIT 11 6 0 .W 14 II 0 Elmira 11 1 0 .611 12 7 0 Geneseo 14 10 0 .513 16 13 0 Canl1lm 11 I 0 .$79 17 a 0 Pohdam 10 13 G .05 10 15 0 Un!OII 1. It t .411 1 ll t Brockport 7 11 1 .395 t 12 1 Hobart • 13 0 .311 ' 13 0 Cortland 2 11 0 .1st 7 12 0 St. Bona 1 6 0 .I~ 1• I 0 Buffalo 2 1' 1 .132 • 16 1 atnitcnr~itrtsi~ · ·~SPO SPORTSWEEK THURSDAY 2/12- WEDNESDAY 2/18 Thvrs(la.y 2/12 Hockey vs. H ami I ton W. Basketball· Capital District Friday 2/13 W. Basketball· Capital District Saturday 2/14 HQckey vs. North Adams M. Hoops vs. Albany J. v. Hoops vs. Albany w. Hoops· Capital District Monday2/l6 M. Hoops at Binghamton J.V. Hoops at Binghamton Tuesday 2/17 Hockey vs. Norwich M. Swimming vs. Middlebury Wednesday 2/18 M.Hoopsvs. R.P.I, w. Hoopsvs. Vassar TS 7:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 6:0() p.r.n. 7:30 p.ill. 4:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 6:00 J:>.m. SPORTSTALK \Watching Steve Konlian run around the rugby field in his tight shorts.\ Tim O'Leary · '88. \Basketball game vs. Hobart when Union scored more than 100 pts.\ Debbie Wehier'87. game in ~\\·t-ho Ithaca, 24-17 loss in over- time.'' Kate G2fflley '89, Ellen Rosner'89. Women's basketball in actlol'llastweek. Their record is 8-8.

Page 18 CONCORDIENSJS, February 12, 1987 C!Inncnrilitnsis _SPORTS By MARK ZIMMERMAN This past weekend was the NBA's annual All-star Weekend bonnam:a. This festivity is one of the more interesting events in the sports year. The NBA WeE:kend is by far ~me of the better sports productions of the year. The NHL all-star game is fun to watch because it has the best players in hockey and obviously there will tend to be more excitement than a regular season game, but it does not have the aura of the NBA. The Pro Bowl would have to get my vote for the biggest sleeper in sports. There are always those fans who stay home and watch the game, but how many of these people will say that they have been looking forward to the game for days or weeks. The reason for this is mostly because it is played the weekend after the biggest game in sports. This tends to be anti- climatic for the viewer. Baseball provides sports fans with a great game and is usually built up very well in the papers beforehand. However, only basketball gives us a weekend of reminiscing, ex- citement, precision and fW1. The weekend starts off with the annual old-timers day game. This game features all the heroes from the past eras as well as a bit of nostalgia. This year such old-timers as Pete Maravich and Walt Frazier showed us that they still have the touch that led them through their great careers. This game is followed by one of the more exciting parts of the weekend: the three point shooting com- petition. Participants are given 60 seconds to shoot 25 ball.s from just. outside the line. Larry Bird, who seems to win it every year, won it again when Deitlof Schremp£ missed what would have been a tying shot. For Bird's efforts he received $12,500. The event that most people waited all weekend for, The Slam DWlk Contest, took place on Saturday but was not broadcast until halftime on Sunday. The crowd was awe struck when contestants, in- cluding the winner Michael Jordan, made 360's, bounce NOT IN THE BOX SCORE Ma,rrk: Zimmerman dWlks and an array of mind boggling slams that would put life into any crowd. The all-star game itself was exciting as welL Following a slow first half which was neither exciting nor interesting. the game became a shootout in the second half with unlikely MVP, Tom Chambers of the Seattle Supersonics, who scored 34 points to lead the Wests victory. The West was down by two points with no time on the clock when Rolando Blackman was · fouled. Following two ·perfect free throws the game went into overtime. The West completely dominated the evertime period. The game ended as one of the highest point scoring games in All-8tar history and it was the first\ time that the West had won in overtime. There were two heroes in the game. The first was Tom Chambers. The hometown favorite would not even have played in the game had Ralph Sampson not suf- fered a knee injury just a few days before. Laker coach, Pat Riley, who coached the West, then added Chambers to the starting line-up. Following Chambers missed slam dunk on the opening shot, things got better. With his 34 points he tied George Gervin and Julius Erving as the third most points in an all-star game. Julius Erving was the other hero of the day. Playing in his 11th all-star game in the NBA, plus 5 more in the old ABA. this was finally Dr. J' s last appearance. Erving at the age of 36 had decided to retire following this season. CBS paid him a well-deserved tribute during halftime. In the game itself, The Doctor had 4 rebmmds, 5 assists and 22 points, including a 17 footer with 38 seconds left that put the East ahead momentarily. Dr. J was one of the most dominent players in basketball in his prime. He will always be remembered by hoop fans. On the whole, the NBA put on a great show this past weekend that was entertaining as well as fun and memorable. Maybe next year when the game is played in Chicago another hometown favorite will put in a historical performance. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS Hoops ••• Continued from page 20 averaging 17.7 ppg. He is followed by Joe Romer 12.7 ppg, Tom Beck 11.7 ppg and Neil Winawer 11.6 ppg . . . . . . Fox also leads the team in rebounding with 8.1 rpg. Doug Gregory (5.3), Romer (4.7) and Winawer (4.6) all trail Fox .... .. Romer's 23 points vs. Skid- more not only was a game-high total, but it was also a career- high ...... The Dutchmen are home again Saturday, Feb. 14 when they host Albany State at 8:00p.m. Union then hosts RPI on Wednesday, Feb. 18. Support Union Hockey **** Support Amerfta, s Orange Growers Bagnoli lakes On New Responsibility By DOUGLAS LLOYD Recently, coach AI Bagnoli was made the Assistant to the Director of Athletics here at Union. This new responsibility for Bagnoli comes in the wake of leaving his job as coach of the men's Tennis team. Coach Bagnoli' s interests lie not only in coaching football but alsa in the administration of all the athletics here at Union. In fact, Bagnoli stated that he could see himself as a Director of Athletics (not necessarily at Union) further down the line in his career. Bagnoli's new respensibilities include making up team travel itineraries, making sure things go smoothly for our home events, and other things such as scheduling the use of buses and vans for our sports teams. Of course, all of this will be done as an assistant to Union's current Director of Athletics, Richard Sakala. With the phenomenal success of Union's football team at the hands of coach Bagnoli ( 43-3 won-loss record in regular season) many rumors have surfaced about his leaving to bigger and better things. Well, as of today, coach Bagnoli is still Union's head football coach and he plans on staying here until the right offer comes along to take him and his family away. Opportunities to coach elsewhere are there but not even the head position at Colwnbia University of the Ivy League could lure Bagnoli from his home here at Union. Division II West W L T Pet OvtraU Platl$burgh 19 I 0 .~ 24 5 0 Hamilton 10 4 0 .714 12 50 Oswego 17 1 0 .7UI 17 7 0 RIT 11 6 0 .W U 11 0 Elmira II 7 0 .611 12 7 0 Gtnes.o I~ 10 0 .583 16 13 0 Cani$IIA 11 I 0 .579 17 a 0 Potsdam 10 13 0 . .US 10 15 0 Union 7 It e ,412 1 ll t Brockport 7 II I .395 t 12 1 Hob!!rt 8 13 0 .381 9 13 0 Cortland 2 11 0 .154 1 12 0 St. Bona I 6 0 .1~ 14 a 0 BuHalo % 16 I .132 • 16 1 Union Heeke)' UNION 6 Bowdoin6 UNION3 ' ,. SCOREBOARD HOCJ<t;Y { Wi1Hams4 . UNION 0 Colby 1 MEN'S BASKETBALL UNION 103 Hamilton90 Skidmore 67 UNION65 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL UNION64 UNJON81 GreenMt. 51 Albany 40 North Adams 53 UNION 50 SPORTSWEEK THURSDAY 2/12- WEDNESDAY 2!18 Thursday 2/12 Hockey vs. Hamilton W. Basketball- Capital District Friday 2/13 W. Basketball- Capital District Saturday 2/14 Hockey vs. North Adams M. Hoops vs. Albany J.V. Hoopsvs.Aibany w. Hoops- Capital District Monday 2/16 M. Hoops at Binghamton J.V. Hoops at Binghamton Tuesday 2/17 Hockey vs. Norwich M. Swimming vs. Middlebury Wednesday 2/18 M. Hoopsvs. R.P.I. W. Hoops vs. Vassar 7:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 2:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 4:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 6:00p.m. SPORTSTALK Interviews and Photos by Jay M. Grossman What is the most exciting sporting even t you've seen at Union this year? ~\!'Jlf\· \Watching Steve Konlian run around the rugby field in his tight shorts.\ Tim O'Leary '88. \Basketball game vs. Hobart when Union scored more than 100 pts.\ Debbie Weiner'87. \Foosball at the Lodge.\ Scott Goldsm.itii '88. j ; Playoff game in football vs. Ithaca, 24-17 loss in over- time.'' Kate Gaff11ey '89, Ellen Rosner '89. Women's basketball in action last week. Their rec()rd is 8·8. .. 10 N ro ...J ell -~ :r >- ..c 0 ..... 0 I:: c. I ( ] I E .- c E f f s d s I f: E r

CONCORDIENSJS, February 12, 1987 Page 19 Athlete of the Week 8y:DOUGLASLL0YD Much of tbe c.redit for the skating Dutchmen's imn. provement of late must go to junior Toby O'Brien as be has solidified .the nets for Union. This quality goal tending is. just in time for the stretch drive to the playoffs. The fntal three ,games must all come up . vic- tories for the Dutchmen if they are to have a, chance to play post season hockey. . Toby came to be the number one goalie after freshman Ron Kinghorn fell on ·Some nard times eal'ly in. the season. The beginning of To.by's .fine play came against Merrimack last week in which he stopped 36 of the 39 shots on net, . keeping Union in the game for the whole 410 rninutes. Merrilnack will be a Division I team next season so the quality of play . was not lacking as the whole Union team played well Jn the tough loss. Next came Williams where / Toby saved 28 of 32 shots to give Union a 6-4 victory and the Toby O'~Brien ·confidence they needed to play well. The Dutchmen then faced an awesome BowdoJn team that fired an unbelievable 52 shots at O'Brien hut could only .sneak .six past him. The Dutchmen could not .·get the offense on track in thls game, however, and Toby's stellar goal tending went for naught. This past Saturday Union traveled to Waterville, ME. to take on a strong Colby team but O'Brien was up to the task once again. The Mules mustered 37 shots .in their three periods but there was ahnost no .beatillg O'Brien as he let up just one. Tonight Toby must remain hot if. Union is to avenge an early season loss to the Hamilton Continentals, 6-1. There is no questionthat Toby is this week's ''Athlete of the Week\ as he has kept Union's chances alive for the playoffs. Toby has saved the last 148 out of 160 shots he's faced in those four games. The East Sandwich, MA native is a political .science- psychology major and is a brother at P.si Upsilon. Congratulations to Toby on his superb play of late and to the other skating Dutchmen for continuing to press for the win. IndiviQuals will use· the assigned lockers for overnight storag,e of their. belongings, and l.ong fUll dress J,ockers for storage of .equipment while using the facility. · No persono\1 locks.are allowed on any lockers. PersonAl locks wil.l be removed immediately. College locks left_pn long, full dress lockers overnight will be removed and the 'individual charged for the lock. -, Na~tilus and Free Weight Rooms Each room willb'e supervised by trained individuals who will be able to provide instruction regarding the use of equipment in each of these facilities. Recrea:Uon Equipment C;:tge~ :·· · .. RecreatJ.ona1 equipment is available when you leave your Union I. D. card. Equipment that will beravailal>.1,e: 'Ibwels Basketballs Volleyballs Weightlifting Belts Racquetball Racquets & Balls Squash Racquets & Balls swim Goggles Jump Ropes • OPERATING HOURS COMPLEX VARY: OF EACH FACILITY WITHIN THE Mon. - Thurs. Fri. Sat. sun,. 8:00 a.m. - 8: 00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. - 12: 00 p.m. - Nautilus and Free Weight Rooms Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - Fri. 11:00 a.m. - Sat~ 12:00 p.m. - sun. Closed 11:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. 11:00 p.m. 9:00p.m. 8:00p.m •. 7:00 p.m. Swimming E'Ool loc>n. ..., Thur s • Fri.. 10:00 a.m. - 3~00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. - 10:00 p~m. Sa.t. & Sun., 10:00 a.m ..... 3:00p.m. , 7:00p.m.- 8:30p.m.· 12:00 p.m. - 8:00 p •. m. Any ques.tions rega10ding use of the complex may be directed to the Intramural/Recreation Offi~~t:e loca·ted on the locker room level. The office number is 370-6119. Track Takes 3rd lly MEN'S TRACK TEAM ' A lack of first place finishes llurt the track: team in the <Japital District . meet .last F'rldar night; A,lthough the Dutctunen scored m all but one Event they entered, they were r ()IJ].y able to win one individual Event. As a resUlt, the men finished third ill the four team field with 41 points, ahead of Siena College's 13, but behind defending champion· Albany state's 91 and 'RPI's 48. J.unior Jeff Barker led the Dutcbmen, as he became ,their flt-st triple Winner of the season. Earker won the 800 meters, r111llling a· strong. second 400 to take the race by 2lh seconds in 2:01;2:. Barker also ran legs on two wmning relay teams, as Union once again served notice that its relays are among the best in the state. The Dutchmen won the mile and two mile relays and .finished a close third in the distance medley relay. Barker ran legs on both the mile and two mile relays, as did senior Rob Mohlar. Mohlar was . barely edged in the 500 meters, where he and winner Dave Reinhardt of Albany clocked the fastest time in the state this year at 66.7 se~onds. However, he was not to be denied in the mUe relay. Taking the baton 10 meters behind the Albany State team, Mohlar came on strong over the last lap to ()Utlean his c()unterpart at the finish, 3:36;1 to 3:36.5. The two mile relay team of Wayne Kotary, Dave Weeks; Mohlar and Barker also came from· behind to win, as they clocked 8:10.5, their best time of the year. In the distance medley relay, Union fell behind early. How.ever, senior Bob Stenard ran a gutsy mile anchor leg, coming from half a lap back to catch the second place Siena CGllege runner, only to be nipped at the wire. Stenard's mile of 4:35 paced the relay to a time of 11:11.1. Several other l'WII1ets had outstanding meets. Mike Reed QI.nncnrbfensis SPORT By ANDREW MILLER What do the names Ryan Drew, Billy Reid, and Denrtis Scott have in common? They are all seniors in high school who possess one highly priced commodity, a 21 foot range. These high school basketball players were originally good enough to be considered a \safe\ prospect. But with the additionof the new 21 foot three- point line in college basketbaU, their stock has soared., Drew, Reid, and Scott are not considered gifted athlete'S. They are by no means aU·around players. What they ar~ is the crest of the new wave of downtown cylinder fillers. And what they have brought to college basketball is con- troversy. The three-point line in college basketball is a hot topic of discussion these days. Some think the new college rule is the best thing to happen to the game since the high top sneaker. Others feel the rule is a useless gimmick, an attempt to fill the stands by scoring more points. The real controversy is not between keeping or scrapping the rule. Like it or not, the three-point rule is here to stay. The question centers around its distance and its effects. Of 219 college coaches who responded to an ESPN poll last month, 118, or 54 percent, favored the three point ~oal. Of the 118.68 opposed the distance. The major opposition to the shot . was sununed up by Kansas coach Larry Brown, \I thought the three-point shot was Jnevitable .. But it shocked me when they went to it. I don't think people realized how close it is.\ The fans seem to agree with Coach Brown's assessment of the rule. Of 3,500 fans polled by the USA network 56 percent wanted a greater distance. The official NCAA distance for the three-point line is 21 feet, measured from the side of the backboard. This ranks last in overall distance compared with the International (21 ft 9 inche$) and NBA (25 feet) measurements. The results of this range that peeks at the top of the circle are many. Teams are starting to restructure their offense around the line. The · three-point distance lsan easy shot for good With a Perspective On Sports Andrew Mil'ler shooters. Duke coach Mike Kryzewski feels that,. nif they do keep it m, it can't be this short, where it is the focal point of what your doing in the game. It ls going to create more of a jump-shotting game than a game of good passing inside, power and jump-shooting.\ The overall balanced game, what college 'basketball has strived to create, is in serious jepordy. At this distance the temptation to shoot is overwhelming, t~ line rewards you for being fteijish rather than working as a team. Case in point is Mississippi Valley State's George Ivory. Ivory, in only 17 games, has taken 150 three-point shots. He is 80 for 150 for a .533 per- centage. In the Big Ten the three-point shot comprises 50 percent of all .shots made. This stat is far from unusual. There are over 10 division I colleges who shoot three-pointers over 45 percent of all shots. Even statisticians are drawn into the three-point con- troversy. The problem involved here is whether to asterisk record setters who played with the three point rule 01 uot. This may sound trivial, but it hammers home an interesting point. The three-point rule changes almost every aspect of the game. It influences everything from shot selection to late game strategy. If the rule is going to be successfully implemented it has to be modified. If college basketball is a steppmg stone to the pros why not play by the same rules? A modification of the line should at least be pushed back between the International and NBA distances. The NCAA has made many beneficial changes to the way they play their game, the three point rule is one of them. The shot creates a lot more strategy for the coaches and it gives trailing teams a greater chance to climb back into the game. The lines best feature is that it openes up the middle and de- emphasizes the zone. . · A$ for the future of Drew, Reid, and Scott, the one -dimensional 21 foot weapons, lets just hope a change of a few feet back won't leave them standing in the middle of nowhere. This is one man's opinion. Support America's Orange Growers, Throw Your Weight Behind The Skating Dutchmen r~n strongly both on his leg of the mile relay and in the 1000 meters, where he had a great finishing kick to take second place in 2:35.8. Sophomore Steve Hayes continued to rWl well, as he added a second place in the 400 meters (54.0 seconds) as well as a leg in the victorious mile relay. Bill Craig put in second and a third place finishes, jumping 6.12 meters in the long jump and clocking 6.2 seconds in the 50 meter dash. The freshmen high jwnp duo of Jeff Simkins and Chip Silver also competed well, as they took second and third place, respectively, in that event with jumps of 5 feet 10 inches. Silver and Simkins each added fourth place finishes, Simkins in the 50 meter hurdles (5.8 seconds) and SUver in the triple jump (12.09 meters). The women . competed in a special open 800 meters at the meet. Jenny Lee qualified for the State Meet with an excellent time of 2:28 to win the race. Sophomores Sherry Cargile and Lorie Anderson and senior Julie Halpern also raced well, as the lady Dutchmen took four of the top six places. In another open event, the women's relay team of Halpern, Lee, Anderson and Nora Tuthill easily defeated Siena in a 4 x. 2-lap race. 'fhe men;s and women's teams will now intensify their training, as they prepare for the upcoming New York State meets. Last night the women hosted the Union Women's Invitational at Memorial Field House, while the men, off this week, will travel to West Pofu.t on FebrUilrY 21 to compete m the MAC championships.

CONCORlJIENSIS, FebrutJ''Y 12, 1987 Page I 9 Athlete of the Wee:k ByDOUGLA:SLLOYD Much of the credit for the skating Dutchmen's im- provement of late must go to junior Toby O'Brien as he has solidified the nets for Union. This quality goal tending is just in time for the stretch drive to the playoffs. The final three games must all come up vic- tories for the Dutchmen if they are to have a chance to play post season hockey. not gEt the offense on track in this garne, however, and Toby's stellar goal tending went for naught. Thi5 past Saturday Union traveled to Waterville, ME. to take on a strong Colby team but O'BriEn was up te the task once again. The Mules mustered 37 shots in their th.ree periods but there was almost no beating O'Brien as he let up just one. Tonight Toby must remain hot if Uni<Jn is to avenge an early season loss to the Hamilton Continentals, 6-1. Toby came to be the mnnber one goalie after freshman Ron Kinghorn fell on some hard times early in the season. The beginning of Toby's fine play came against Merrimack last week in which he stopped 36 of the 39 shots on net, keeping Union in the game for the whole 60 minutes. Merrimack will be a Division I team next season so the quality of play was not lacking as the whole Union team played well in the tough loss. Next came Williams where Toby saved 28 of 32 shots to give Union a 6-4 victory and the There is no question that Toby E is this week's \Athlete of the _g Week\ as he has kept Uni()n's a. chances alive for the playoffs. e Toby has saved the last 148 out <ll of 16() shots he's faced in those Toby O'Brien confidence they needed to play well. The Dutchmen then faced an awesome Bowdoin team that fired an unbelievable 52 shots at O'Brien but cou1d only sneak six: past him. The Dutchmen could four g.arnes. The East Sandwich, MA native is a political science- psycllology major and is a brother at Psi Upsilon. Congratulations to Toby on his superb play of late and to the other skating Dutchmen for contilluing to press for the win. Individuals wi1.1 use· the assigned lockers for overnight storage of their belongings, and long full dress lockers for storage of equipment while using the facility. No person~l locks are allowed on any lockers. PersonAl locks will be removed immediately. College locks left on long, full dress lockers overnight will be removed and the individual charged for the lock. Nautilus and Free Weight Rooms Each room will be supervised by trained individuals who will be able to provide instruction regarding the use of equipment in each of these facilities. Recreation Equipment Cage Recreat~onal equipment is available when you leave your Union I. D. card. Equipment that will be,available: 'Ibwels Basketballs Volleyballs weightlifting Belts Racquetball Racquets & Balls Squash Racquets & Balls swim Goggles Jump Ropes OPERATING HOURS OF EACH FACILITY WITHIN THE COMPLEX VARY: Gymnasium, Racquetball/Squash Courts, and the Equipment Cage Mon. -Thurs. 8:00a.m. - 11:00 p.m. Fri. 8:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. Sat. 10:00 a.m. - 9:00p.m. sun. 12:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m. Nautilus and Free Mon. - Thurs. Fri. Sat. Sun. Weight Rooms 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m. - Closed 9:00p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:00p.m. swimming Pool mn. Thurs. Fri. Sat. & Sun. 10:00 a.m. -3:00p.m. , 7:00p.m.- 10:00 p.m. 10:00 a.m. -3:00p.m. , 7:00p.m. - 8:30p.m. 12:00 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. Any questions regarding use of the complex may be directed to the Intramural/Recreation Office located on the locker room level. The office number is 370-6119. Track Takes 3rd By MEN'S TRACK. TEAM A lack of first place finishes hurt the track team in the Capital District meet last Friday night. Although the Dutchmen scored in all but one event they entered, they were .- only able to win one individual event. As a resu1t, the men finished third in thE four team field with 41 points, ahead of Siena College's 13, but behind defending champion Albany State's 91 and RPrs 48. Junior Jeff Barker led the Dutchmen, as he became their first triple winner of the season. Barker won the 800 meters, running a strong second 400 to take the race by 21f.! seconds in 2:01.2. Barker also ran legs on two winning relay teams, as Union once again served notice that its relays are among the best in the state. The Dutchmen won the mile and two mile relays and finished a close third in the distance medley relay. Barker ran legs on both the mile and two mile relays, as did senior Rob Mohlar. Mohlar was barely edged in the 500 meters, where he and winner Dave Reinhardt of Albany clocked the fastest time in the state this year at 66.7 seconds. However, he was not to be denied in the mile relay. Taking the baton 10 meters behind the Albany State team, Mohlar came on strong over the last lap to outlean his counter.part at the finish, 3:36.1 to 3:36.1). The two mile relay team of Wayne Kotary, Dave Weeks, Mohlar and Barker also came fwm · behind to win, as they clocked 8:10.5, their best time of the year. In the distance medley relay, Union fell behind early. H()wever, senior Bot> Stenardrm a gutsy mile anchor leg, corning from half a lap b.ack: to catch the second place Siena College runner, only to be nipped at the wire. Stenard's mile of 4: 35 paced the relay to a time of 11:11.1. Several other runners had outstanding meets. Mike Reed arnncnrbi.ensis SPORTS By ANDREW MILLER What do the names Ryan Drew, Billy Reid, and Dennis Scott have in common? They are all seniors in high school who possess one highly priced commodity, a 21 foot range. These high school basketball players were originally good eneugh to be considered a \safe\ prospect. But with the addition of the Bew 21 foot three- point line in college basketball, their stock has soared. Drew, Reid, and Scott are not considered gifted athletes. They are by no means all-around players. What they are is the crest of the new wave of downtown cylinder fillers. And what they have brought to college basketball is con- troversy. The three-point line in college basketball is a hot topic of discussion these days. Some think the new college ru1e is the best thing to happen to the game since the high top sneaker. Others feel the rule is a l:!seless gimmick, an attempt to fill the stands by scoring more points. The real controversy is not between keeping or scrapping the rule. Like it or not, the three-point rule is here to stay. The question centers around its distance and its effects. Of 219 college coaches who responded to an ESPN poll last month, 118, or 54 percent, favored the three point goal. Of the 118.68 opposed the distance. The major opposition to the shot was summed up by Kansas coach Larry Brown, \I thought the three-point sl10t was inevitable. But it shocked me when they went to it. I don't think people realized how close it is.\ The fans seem to agree with Coach Brown's assessment of the ru1e. Of 3,500 fans polled by the USA network 56 percent wanted a greater distance. The official NCAA distance for the three-point line is 21 feet, measured from the side of the backboard. This ranks last in overall distance compared with the International (21 ft 9 inches) and NBA (25 feet) measurements. The results of this range that peeks at the top of the circle are many. Teams are starting to restructure their offense around the line. The three-point distance is an easy shot for good With a Perspective On Sports Andrew Miller shooters. Duke coach Mike Kryzewski feels that, \if they do keep it in, it can't be this short, where it is the focal point of what your doing in the game. It is going to create more of a jump-shotting game than a game of good passing inside, power and jump-shooting.\ The overall balanced game, what college basketball has strived to create, is in serious jepordy. At this distance the temptation to shoot is overwhelming, the line rewards you for being !felfish rather than working as a team. Case in point is Mississippi Valley State's George Ivory. Ivory, in only 17 games, has taken 150 three-point shots. He is 80 for 160 for a .533 per- centage. In the Big Ten the three-point shot comprises 50 percent of all shots made. This stat is far from Wlusual. There are over 10 division I colleges who shoot three-pointers over 45 percent of all shots. Even statisticians are drawn into the three-point con- troversy. The problem involved here is whether to asterisk record setters who played with the three point rule 01 11.ot. This may sound trivial, but it hammers home an interesting point. The three-point ru1e changes almost every aspect of the game. It influences everything from shot selection to late game strategy. If the rule is going to be successfully implemented it has to be modified. If college basketball is a stepping stone to the pros why not play by the same rules~ A modification of the line should at least be pushed back between the International and NBA distances. The NCAA has made many beneficial changes to the way they play their game, the three point rule is one of them. The shot creates a lot more strategy for the coaches and it gives trailing teams a greater chance to climb back into the game. The lines best feature is that it openes up the middle and de- emphasizes the zone. As for the future of Drew, Reid, and Scott, the one dimensional 21 foot weapons, lets just hope a change of a few feet back won't leave them standing in the middle of nowhere. This is one man's opinion. Support America~ Orange Growers, Throw Your Weight Behind The Skating Dutchmen ' ran strongly both on his leg of the mile relay and in the 1000 meters, where he had a great finishing kick to take second place in 2:35.8. Sophomore Steve Hayes continued to run well, as he added a second place in the 400 meters (54.0 seconds) as well as a leg in the victorious mile relay. Bill Craig put in second and a third place finishes, jumping 6.12 meters in the long jump and clocking 6.2 seconds in the 50 meter dash . The freshmen high jump duo of Jeff Simkins and Chip Silver also competed well,as they took second and third place, respectively, in that event with jumps of 5 feet 10 inches. Silver and Simkins each added fourth place finishes, Simkins in the 50 meter hurdles ( 5.8 seconds) and Silver in the triple jump (12.09 meters). The women competed in a special open 800 meters at the :meet. Jenny Lee qualified for the State Meet with an excellent time of 2:28 to win the race. Sophomores Sherry Cargile and Lorie Anderson and senior Julie Halpern also raced well, as the lady Dutchmen took four of the t()p six places. In another open event, the women's relay team of Halpern, Lee, Anderson and Nora Tuthill easily defeated Siena in a 4 x 2-lap race. The men's and women's teams will now intensify their training, as they prepare for the upcoming New York State meets. Last night the women hosted the Union Women's Invitational at Memorial Field H<>use, while the men, off this week, will travel to West Point on February 21 to compete in tile MAC championships.

'· CONCOR!J.lENSIS; February 11~ J987 . \- 10 N ltl ..J Cl) ·~ J: >- .0 0 - 0 .c c. ••• playoff fate to ba decided fGiiight n. Hamiltosn Dutchmen Hanging Tough By GAVINMOBTON The Union College Skating Dutchmen foWld thelilSelv4:ls in an unfamiliar positi~n. 'ro be considered for the E.<:.A.C. playoffs, the Dutchmen must win their next three games to give them a 16-10 recl)rd. A. .5()() record is. a reqllireme11t [()r post.season play. The Dutchmen ~:o11tinued their playoff hunt by !>eating Williams and Colby and losing to Bowdoin. · On Tuesday of last week the Dutchmen took on Williams a11d beat the Ephmen 6-4 to. end. their short, two-game losing str:eak. Guy Logan got tlle tean started at 8:53 of the first Jleriod bystuffinghomea.reboWtd off a Scott Cyr shot. Nelson Said quickly made it 2- 0 jast 43 seconds late.r by c.:on- v.etting Qn a nice feed bY Gary TemllBh. Rick Rockett made it 3-0 early ·in the second period, makillg the most of his first varsity m;art of the year by scoring after Darren Stephens . ha!l d()ne a fine job of fighting off a defenseman and passing him the puclt. The Ephmen finallygot ~n tile board when Tim Yarter scored at 9: 18 but the IJutcJtmen responded with three quic:k goals to take a commanding 6-1 lead going into the tb.ird peri()d. Duane Joyce, DaVi.J .Apvieby, and Mark ~oguen all scored on slapshots in the filial seven minutes of-the period to seal tile victory. The Ephmen tried to malte a game of it and the Dutclunen relaxed enough to get ,outscCJI'ed 341 in the third peri()d to mak:e the final score closer than it should have been. Toby O;Brien stopped 28 of ~2 shots to put in another solid performance. The real goaltending perfonnance was put in by Williams~ s Mark Morrison, who was pelted in th.e first and second perio~, in· eluding numerous powerplay opJ>()rtunities, which the Dut· chmen could not casll in on. The hockey team travelled t<> Maine Dn Friday night to play No. 2 ranked Bowdoirl College and received their wor\t beating of the year, 6.(), The Dutchmen, already without defensemen Pete C()tier and Bill Snow, had flll11ler problems on defense, with David Appleby catchblg tile fl11. ·With only three healthy . defensemen, the Dutclunen were no match for tlle high flying Polar Bears,. who used . six healthy and very mobile defensemen and f()W' strong 'lines to wear down alld confuse the undennanned Dutchmen with many differellt ()ffensive flurries. Toby O'Brien flt()pped 43 of 49 shots to keep Bowdoin. tp only six goals, and fuiiller sOlidify his new position of No. 1 goaltender. The Dutchmen a~ain had an .ineffective power play and did not get a shot on their first two. powerplaysand gaveup a short· handed goal on tluirr third and final five on four Sitllations. Tile Polar Bears, on the ether band, were two of three on the power play and had shot a::fter shot 1)11 O'Brien. · Bowdoin scored 1.llree goals in both. the first and third periods and used six different goal scorers to show the 'Dutchmen a very balanced lli!d effective offensive attack. The shutout w.as the first against the Dutchrne11 Ulis year · and the first time sillce Babson beat Union 8-0 in thle N.C.A.A. finals in March of 1984. The Dutchmen travelled to Waterville the fol]()wing af· ternoon to play the Colby Mules and played discipolined hockey in defeating their hosts-, }1. Nelson Said- lell Union with two goals, his tenth and eleventh of the · season,. and missed getting !tis second career hat-trick with! less than a minute left in the g:.arne when he was stymied on a breakaway. Nelson Said Toby O'Brien WCIS the other standout in the game, making numerous big saves .a11d holding the Mules to just one: goal on 36 shots. The 35 save~~: g;ave him 78 saves f()r the weeke11!i. Said got the Dutchmen on the board late in the fil'st period. on a power play at l6 :16, which was the first Dutcl:unen goal Men's and Women~s Track p:repare forNYSmeet See story page 19 F~btuary 12, 1987 ... , Hoops Needs Consecutive Winsl ·Scanlon Win,s-2:00th . . . . .·-. ByiM.AltKVANBUREN Durirtg the past week, the U11i()n O.llege basketball team split a !)air of decisions, beating Skidm()r-e and losing to HamiltCln. 'lbe big news of the week was the win over Skidmore, which not ()n}y warkedthe 11th victory of the season for the Dutchmen, but alSCJ marked Coach Bill Scanlon's; 2ooth coaching vic- tory in bis 14-year career at Union. This is quite an ac- compl:iSlment in itself, but it is even In()re impressive at a college where athletics take a backseat to academics. · Scanl()!l 1 ::1 career winning percentage currently stands at .597. It was evident right from the opening tip-off that Union. would be ill <:Dntl\'ol of the game. The Dutchmen opened up a 10-7lead five min11tes into the game. From her-e, with Tom Beck and ~oe Ro!ller combining for 13 po~, Union outscored Skid- more· lila, to open up a 29-15 margin with .9:51 remaining in the opening half. The next nine possessiDns by each team resulted tn an extension of the Dutchm~n advantage· to 27 points,. 46-19, at the 4:51 marlt~ UniDn closed out the half on a Steve DeBalso jumpshot, which since the second period against Williams, spanning five · . periods. Chris Huntington got the game winner at 2:38 of the second period, when he took a nice feec from Daryl Gustafson and. bankecl itoff of the post and in. Vin P.aolucci narrowed the margin with a goal at 11:30 of the sec{)nci period, but midway through: tJJe third period Said iced the match by sending a Gary \Temush rebound off the shoulder of the sprawling goaltem:ler.. Gary Temush and David A]lpleby both assisted on Said's tw() goals to give all three players two points in the game. '!be W.()rk of the Dutchmen's penalty !tilling Wlit was fan· tastic CiS C<llby was ()..8 on the PQWerplmy. Bill Snow's return to the lineUIJ gave tbe Dutchmen defense a well..deserved break with the extra set of legs. The. Dutchmen play host· to Hamiltcntonight and will tcy to avenge an earlier 6--1 loss. Saturdlly, at 2:00, the Out· chmen h.<~st North Adarns State dur,ing Senior Appreciation Night. gave the home team a 59-26 lead. Union shot an incredible 77 percent from the field in the first half. To begin the second half, the Dutchmen picked up just where they left off in the first half. When .Kurt Fox hit ari 8-foot jumper in the lane, Union led 69- 28. The Dutchmen upped this margin to their largest. lead of the game, 42 points, 79-37, when Joe Romer converted a 3-point play with 9:481eft in the game. Union cruised on to post a 103-67 victory. Joe Romer paced Union with a game-high 23 points. Kurt Fox added 22 pts and 11 rebounds, while Scott Gibbs had 12 pts and Steve DeBalso 9 pts and 7 rebounds for the winners. On Saturday, the Dutclunen travelled to Hamilton to take ·on the 13-3 Continentals. Union took an early 12-9 lead as Doug Gregory canned a short jumper 4:58 into the contest. Hamilton then ran off seven straight points to grab a 16--12 lead atthe 13:35 mark. The Continentals would not relinquish this lead for the rest of the game. With 9:10 left before iJlte:mrlssion, Kurt Fox brought Union within three points, 23-20, when he hit a 15-foot jumpshot. However, the Continentals scored nine unanswered llOints to pUll in ·front '32-20, With just over.four minutes left ·until haifffine. They extended their !:ldvantage . to 42-26 as the half ended. . The :beginning of the second petiod was played fairly evenly. Union was able to close t'O within eight points, 53-45; with 13:21 left, as ·Tom BeCk con~ neeted on a 3-point field goal. However, a 12-2 spurt followlng Beck's shot gave Hamilton a 65- 47lead with 8:46 remaining to play. The Continentals led by as many as twenty-three, 7$);$ with 5:12 left, when John Cavanaugh hit a turn-aromd seven footer. Hamilton remained m control the rest of the game a~ it handed Uriion::its 7th loss of the ~eason, 90.65. Hamilton was led by Bod Pe~lec<:hia with 23 points and 13 rebounds and AU·American John Cavanaugh with 22 points and 15 rebounds. Tom Beck led Ullion with 20 points. Kurt Fox (13 pts and 8 rebs), Joe Romer (10 pts and 7 rebs) and Doug Gregory (10 pts and 5 rebs) aU followed Beck. DUTCHMEN NOTE'S ..... . ,Entering Tuesday's game vs .. HartWick, the Dutchmen were 11-7, averaging 76.8 ppg and glving up 72.3 ppg . • • . . . Kurt Fox leads Union in scoring, Continued on page 18 ~ t1l N 10 . .J. ,(I) 'i ·o I >- ..0 ,g 0 .c Q. No. 32sophornore Doug Gregorygoesfottheslar:n over Skidmore.

Page 20 CONCORD_IENSIS, February 11, 1987 1... rtl N rc ..J (!) ·~ I >- .0 0 0 .c c. ••• pla,off fate to be cl&cided tonight vs. Hamil1on Dutchmen Hanging Tough By GAVIN MORT()N The Union College .Skating Dutchmen found themselves in an unfamiliar position. 'To be considered for the E.C.A.C. playoffs, the Dutchme11 must win their next three games t() give them a 10..10 recorci. A .500 record is a requiremEnt for post-season play. The Dutchmen C()ntinued their playoff hunt by beating Williams and Colby a11d losing to Bowdoin. On Tuesday of last WEek the Dutchmen took on Williams and beat tlle Ephmen 6-4 to end tlleir shortp two-game losing streak. Guy lAgan got the team started at 8: 53 of the first period by stuffing home a reoolllld off a Scott Cyr shot. Nel5on Said quickly made it 2· 0 just 43 seconds later by con· verting on a nice feed !)y Gary Temush. Rick Rockett made it 3-0 early in the second period, making the ID()St of his first varsity start of the year by scorlJJg after Darren Stephens had <lone a fine job of fighting off a defenseman and passing him the puck. The Ephmen finally goi on the board when Tim Yarter scored at 9: HI but the Dutchmen responded with three q tiick goals 1o take a comm8IIding 6-1 lead going into the third period. Duane Joyce, David .Appleby, and Mark Goguen all s~or-ed on slaps)-i(}ts in the final .seven minutes of the period to seal the victory. The Ephmen tried to rnake a game of it and the Dutdunen relaxed enough to get outscored 3-0 in the third period to make the final score closer tllan it should have been. Toby O'Brien stopped :!8 of 32 shots to put in another solid performance. The real goaltending performance was put in by Williams's Mark Morrison, who was pelted in the first and second periods, in- cluding numerous powerplay opportu.nities, which thE Dut- chmen could not cash .in on. The hockey team travelled to Maine on Friday night to play No. 2 ranked Bowdoin COllege and received their worst beating of the year, 6-0. The Dutchmen, already without defensernen Pete Cotier and Bill Snow, had fu.rther- problerns on defense. with David Appleby catching the flu. ·With only three healthy defensemen, the Dutchmen were no match for the high flying Polar Bears, who used six healthy and very mobile defensemen and four strong lines to wear down and confuse the undermanned Dutchmen with many different offensive flurries. Toby O'Brien stopped 43 of 49 shots to keep Bowdoin to only six goals, and further solidify his new position of No. 1 goaltender. The Dutchmen again had an ineffective power play and did not get a shot 011 their first two powerplays and gave up a short· handed goal on their third and final five on four situations. The Polar Bears, on the other hand, were two of three on the power play and had shot after shot on O'Brien. Bowdoin scored three goals in both the first and third periods and used six different goal scorers to show the Dutchmen a very balanced and effective offensive attack. The shutout was the first against the Dutchmen this year and the first time since Babson beat Union IJ..O in the N.C.A.A. finals in March of 1984. The Dutchmen travelled to Waterville the following af- ternoon to play the Colby Mules and played disciplined hockey in defeating their hosts, 3-1. Nelson Said led Union with two goals, his tenth and eleventh of the season, and missed getting his second career haHrick with less than a minute left in the game when he was stymied on a breakaway. Nelson Said Toby O'Brien was the other standout in the game, making numerous big saves and holding the Mules to just one goal on 36 shots. The 35 saves gave him 78 saves for the weekend. Said got the Dutchmen on the board late in the first period on a power play at 16:16, which was the first Dutchmen goal 1... rc N rtl ..J (!) ·~ I >- .0 0 .... 0 ;-g_ Men's and Women's Track prepare for NYS meet see story page 19 February 12, 1987 s •• Hoops Needs Consecutive Wins! Scanlon Wins 200th ByMARKVANBUREN During the past week, the Union College basketball team split a pair of decisions, beating Skidmore and losing to Hamilton. The big news of the week was the win over Skidmore, which not only marked the 11th victory of the season for the Dutchmen, but also marked Coach Bill Scanlon's 200th coaching vic- tory in his 14-year career at Union. This is quite an ac· complishment in itself, but it is even more impressive at a college where athletics take a backseat to academics. Scanlon's career winning percentage currently stands at .5fll. It was evident right from the opening tip-off that Union would be in control of the game. The Dutchmen opened up a 10.7lead five minutes into the game. From here, with Tom Beck and Joe Romer combining for 13 pO~, Union outscored Skid· more 19-,8, to open up a 2g..15 margin with .9:51 remaining in the opening half. The next nine possessions by each team resulted in an extension of the Dutchmen advantage· to 27 points, 46-19, at the 4:51 mark:~· Union closed out the half on a Steve DeBalso jumpshot, which since the second period against Williams, spanning five . periods. Chris Huntington got the game winner at 2:38 of the second period, when he took a nice feed from Daryl Gustafson and banked it off of the post and in. Vin Paolucci nan·owed the margin with a goal at 11:30 of the second period, but midway through the third period Said iced the match by sending a Gary Temush rebound off the shoulder of the sprawling goaltender. Gary Temush and David Appleby both assisted on Said's two goals to give all three players two points in the game. The work of the Dutchmen's penalty killing unit was fan- tastic as Colby was 0-8 on the powerplay. Bill Snow's retW'Il to the lineup gave the Dutchmen defense a well-deserved break with the extra set of legs. The Dutchmen play host to Hamilton tonight and will try to avenge an earlier 6-1 loss. Saturday, at 2:00, the Dut- chmen host North Adams State during Senior Appreciation Night. gave the home team a 59-26 lead. Union shot an incredible 77 percent from the field in the first half. To begin the second half, the Dutchmen picked up just where they left off in the first half. When Kurt Fox hit an 8-foot jumper in the lane, Union led 69- 28. The Dutchmen upped this margin to their largest lead of the game, 42 points, 79-37, when Joe Romer converted a 3-point play with 9:48 left in the game. Union cruised on to post a 103-67 victory. Joe Romer paced Union with a game-high 23 points. Kurt Fox: added 22 pts and 11 rebounds, while Scott Gibbs had 12 pts and Steve DeBalso 9 pts and 7 rebounds for the winners. On Saturday, the Dutchmen travelled to Hamilton to take on the 13-3 Continentals. Union took an early 12·9 lead as Doug Gregory canned a short jumper 4:58 into the contest. Hamilton then ran off seven straight points to grab a 16-12lead at the 13:35 mark. The Continentals ~ould not relinquish this lead for the rest of the game. With 9:10 left before intermission, Kurt Fox brought Union within three points, 22·20, when he hit a 15-foot jwnpshot. However, the Continentals scored nine unanswered J?Oints to pull in ·front 32-20, with just over four minutes left until halftime. They extended their advantage to 42-26 as the half ended. The beginning of the second period was played fairly evenly. Union was able to close to within eight points, ~3-45, with 13:21 left, as Torn Beck con- nected on a 3-point field goal. However, a 12-2 spurt following Beck's shot gave Hamilton a 65- 47 lead with 8:46 remaining to play. The Continentals led by as many as twenty-three, 79-56 with 5: 12 left, wilen John Cavanaugh hit a tum-around seven footer. Hamilton remained in control tbe rest of the game as it handed Union its 7th loss of the season, 90-65. Hamilton was led by Bud Pellecchia with 23 points and 13 rebounds and All-American John Cavanaugh with 22 points and 15 rebounds. Tom Beck led Union with 20 points. Kurt Fox (13 pts and 8 rebs), Joe Romer (10 pts and 7 rebs) and Doug Gregory (10 pts and r; rebs) all followed Beck. DUTCHMEN NOTES . . .... . Entering Tuesday's game vs. HartWick, the Dutchmen were 11·7, averaging 76.8 ppg and giving up 72.3 ppg . . . . . . Kurt Fox leads Union in scoring, ConHnuedonpagelB .... rc N rc ..J 0> ·~ I >- .0 .E 0 .c c. No. 32 sophomore Doug Gregory goes for the slam over Skidmore. 1 il I

CX.VI,. No. 16 Colle·ge An·nou:nces Disciplinary Action , .For Sig-ma Phi: Fraternity To Be Ev-icted From Housi:n·g For At least One Year By D.B. GULLlVER which involve only the brothers of the fraternity. No outsiders As a result of the discovery · may be ifivited. and subsequent confiscation of · Those three sections,. ac;.. ~ large .amount of marijuana cording to Dean Mamrrtola, are fromthe Sigma Phi fraternity, alreadyineffect. The next three the College has enacted several items, concerning the eviction disciplinary measures, in- · of the fraternity, are still under eluding the mandatory consideration ~ue to \logistic resignation and eviction of the ~ctors,\ which include the fraternity president and sQcial qliestioQs of who would p~y for probation. IIi ac:ldition, the insurance :during ·the eviction Colleg:e is still considering the period, if the C.ollege -would eviction of all frat!-'!rnity have to renovate the h9use to members fromth.e house. for the meet dormitor~ $tandards, et~. entire 1~87-1988-schoolyear. The statement continues: · · · 4. The privilege of living \The CQUege views this as an together.as a group in the Sigma extremely serious matter in Phi frEJ.ternity· house will be that a large amout of an SU$pen.ded for one year, ef- illegal • drug was being fective · ~t the end -of the Spring cultivated in the house.\ . 1987 term, All members of .. ·- . \ . . ·Dean.Jose'plr ' frate~ :~ill- be . . . Mamm. ola . from ll:Vmg m the house. for the ---------..-.----..;,_,...,... ·, 1987-88 academic year. During the period of probation and suspension, the organization may continue as a fraternity, but may not reside in or conduct Continued on page 2 - ,.. ~ 1877 F~bruary 19,1987 President JohnS. Morris takes the inaugural lap in the new Alumni Gym pool during Friday's· opening celebration. Alumni Gym Opens President Morris' Inaugural Swim Culminate~. Opening Ceremonies ..... __ .... ,-:.~ ..... \'\\\-,.( ..,.$\·.· ~~-. ··.•·... ..... . ... • • \\ .... ·• ,. ~ . < • By DEBRA B. IIONIG Enthusiastic swimmers, bodybuUde~:s, racquetball and squash players promptly took advantage of the renovated facilities of the Alumni Gym- nasium., Friday, February.l3, after 20 months of construction work. Vice President of Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea, Trustee Peter Van Dyck, President John Morris, The Dean of Students- Office instituted the disciplinary action after Assistant Dean Robert Massa interviewed every member of the fraternity and along- with Dean Joseph Marrunola met with the officers of· the national fraternity and alumni office February 13. The official disciplinary stat~ment reads as follows: 1. The College has required that the President of the fraternity· resign his position immediately. Administrative Policy on -Greek Housing Examined Director of Athletics Richard Sakala, and President of the Student Forum Steven Moss each contributed opening remarks to the gym's official induction ceremony in the entrance foyer. Dr. D'Andrea commended the contractor, Sweet Associates, for a remar;kable job, and President Morris confirmed that belief when he said, \I don't know how many of you remember the old gymnasium. We're not really sorry to say that what remains of the old gym is just an old shell.\ Then Sakala described how delighted he is to accept the complex, and Moss pointed out the tremendous impact that the gym will have on campus life. . ' . - . Please read editorial rema.rks on page 8 JJy CHRISTINE HONG Editor's Note: (With the recent administrative and campus attention on Greek 2. The College has also organizations and their housing required that the President of Concordiensis) has taken the . the fraternity vacate the house, initiative to interview Assistant effective at the end of the Dean of Students Robert Massa current winter tenn, and that concerning the contractual as he resi~e off-campus for the · well as practical policies on the remainder of his stay at Union honoring of Greek organizations College. . on the Union College campus. 3. The fraternity has been, Through this discussion, the placed on social probation for article _alSQ approaches and the remainder of this term and . elucidates many of the rumors the 1987-88 academic year. It which have been circulating the may conduct .social activities campus concerning Greek Photo of the Week: President John S. Morris stands ready and waiting to take the \first dip\ in the Alumni Gym swimming pool Friday as his wife, Enid, looks on. · · housing. At the time of th~ in- terview with Robert Massa; the administrative decision on Sigma Phi had not been finalized, and hence,. Massa was not able to give ~Y com- ments on the standing of Sigma Phi or its house. ·\Theoretically at any time, :for any cause ••• we can evict a Greek organization.\ Dean.Robert Massa 9-6-35: Delta Upsilon holds an unregistered party Orientation Weekend heading a list of socia! and probation violations. 9-24 .. 86: Subsequent DU · eviction notice officially released by the Administration. 2-6-87: Campus SecUrity along with Deans Mammola and Massa find marijuana plants in the basement of Sigma Phi. Disciplinary action not yet decided; however, housing is jeopardized for the year 1987- 1988 .. This past year's ad- . ministrative actions concerning the eviction of the Delta Upsilon fraternity coupled with the possible loss of Sigma Phi's house has brought about the topic of Greek housing and its priviledges'on the Union College campus. The college's con- tractual policy, according to Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa 9 is that \theoretically: at any time, for any cause, as long as we provide 60 days notice, we can evict a Greek organization.\ While this policy does seem harsh, Massa assured that, as a \point of fact, the college wouldn't act as such, without founded reasons and careful consideration.\ Massa went on to say that · \practically · speaking, there are three basic reasons the college would revoke housing: one~ a conduct violation; two, financial reasons - the hollSe's funds; third, oc- cupancy - the house's inability to fill a house sufficiently.\ . On occupancy, said Dean Massaf \The college is con- cerned that a significant number of Greek organizations are having problems meeting sufficient occupancy levels.\ In sUch a situation where there . would be inadequate occupancy of house space, Massa con- cluded that \any action that the college would take in terms of college housing would be in conjunction with the chapter. We have and will continue to work with the fraternities to utilize space to a maximum.\ When asked if such a situation did exist where a house couldn,t meet occupancy, Massa commented that \in. such a case of severe inadequate oc~ cupancy, the college would have to officially consider if the house's lease sbould be renewed.'' All leases for Greek organizations are renewed each July for the next academic year. As Massa noted, it is normally a formality such that Continued on page 3 \We want to be the best, we will be the best.\ President John Morris Following this series of speeches, eager students, alwnni, faculty, and members of the administration remained in the foyer for a traditional ribbon cuttb)g ceremony, which took place at precisely 12:44 p.m. Afterwards, refreshments were ~erved, and members of the Athletic Department offered Continued on 2

·I I CXVI, No. 16 College Announces Disciplinary Action For Sigma Phi: Fraternity To Be Evicted From Housing For At Least One Year By D. B. GULLIVER As a result of the discovery and subsequent confiscation of a large amount of marijuana from the Sigma Phi fraternity, the College has enacted several disciplinary measures, in- cluding the mandatory resignation and eviction of the fraternity president and social probation. In addition, the College is still considering the eviction of all fraternity members from the house for the entire 1987-1988 school year. \The College views this as an extremely serious matter in that a large amout of an illegal drug was being cultivated in the house.\ Dean Joseph Mammola which involve only the brothers of the fraternity. No outsiders may be invited. Those three sections, ac- cording to Dean Mammola, are already in effect. The next three items, concerning the eviction of the fraternity, are still under consideration due to \logistic factors,\ which include the · questions of who would pay for insurance ·during the eviction period, if the College would have to renovate the hpuse to meet dormitory standards, etc. The statement continues: 4. The privilege of living together as a group in the Sigma Phi fraternity house will be suspended for one year, ef- fective at the end of the Spring 1987 term. All members of the fraternity will be prohibited from living in the house for the 1987-88 academic year. During the period of probation and suspension, the organization may continue as a fraternity, but may not reside in or conduct Continued on page 2 February 19, 1987 President Joiln S. Morris takes the inaugural lap in the new Alumni Gym pool during Friday's opening celebration. Alumni Gym Opens President Morris' Inaugural Swim Culminates Opening Ceremonies By DEBRA B. HONIG Enthusiastic swimmers, bodybuilders, racquetball and squash playe:rs promptly took advantage of the renovated facilities of the Alumni Gym- nasium, Friday, February 13, after 20 months of construction work. Vice President of Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea, Trustee Peter Van Dyck, President John Morris, The Dean of Students Office instituted the disciplinary action after Assistant Dean Robert Massa interviewed every member of the fraternity and along with Dean Joseph Mammola met with the officers of the national fraternity and alumni office February 13. The official disciplinary statement reads as follows: L The College has required that the President of the fraternity resign his position immediately. Administrative Policy on Greek Housing Examined Director of Athletics Richard Sakala, and President of the Student Forum Steven Moss each contributed opening remarks to the gym's official induction ceremony in the entrance foyer. Dr. D'Andrea commended the contractor, Sweet Associates, for a remarkable job, and President Morris confirmed that belief when he said, \I don't know how many of you remember the old gymnasium. We're not really sorry to say that what remains of the old gym is just an old shell.\ Then Sakala described how delighted he is to accept the complex, and Moss pointed out the tremendous impact that the gym will have on campus life. Please read editorial remarks on :page 8 2. The College has also required that the President of the fraternity vacate the house, effective at the end of the current winter term, and that he reside off-campus for the remainder of his stay at Union College. 3. The fraternity has been placed on social probation for the remainder of this term and the 1987-88 academic year. It may conduct social activities By CHRISTINE HONG Editor's Note: (With the recent administrative and campus attention on Greek organizations and their housing Concordiensis) has taken the initiative to interview Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa concerning the contractual as well as practical policies on the honoring of Greek organizations on the Union College campus. Through this discussion, the article also approaches and elucidates many of the rumors which have been circulating the campus concerning Greek Photo of the Week: President John S. Morris stands ready and waiting to take the \first dip'' in the Alumni Gym swimming pool Friday as his wife, Enid, looks on. housing. At the time of the in- terview with Robert Massa, the administrative decision on Sigma Phi had not been finalized, and hence, Massa was not able to give any com- ments on the standing of Sigma Phi or its Muse. ·\Theoretically at any time, for any cause .•. we can evict a Greek organization.\ Dean Robert Massa 9-6-85: Delta Upsilon holds an unregistered party Orientation Weekend heading a list of social and probation violations. 9-24-86: Subsequent DU eviction notice officially released by the Administration. 2-6-87: CampusSecurity along with Deans Mammola and Massa find marijuana plants in the basement of Sigma Phi. Disciplinary action not yet decided; however, housing is jeopardized for the year 1987- 1988. This past year's ad- ministrative actions concerning the eviction of the Delta Upsilon fraternity coupled with the possible loss of Sigma Phi's house has brought about the topic of Greek housing and its priviledges on the Union College campus. The college's con- tractual policy, according to Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa, is that \theoretically at any time, for any cause, as long as we provide 60 day~ notice, we can evict a Greek organization.\ While this policy does seem harsh, Massa assured that, as a \point of fact, the college wouldn't ac1; as such, without founded reasons and careful consideration.\ Massa went on to say that \practically speaking, there are three basic reasons the college would revoke housing: one, a conduct violation; two, financial reasons - the house's funds; third, oc- cupancy - the house's inability to fill a house sufficiently.\ On occupancy, said Dean Massa, \The college is con- cerned that a significant number of Greek organizations are having problems meeting sufficient occupancy levels.\ In such a situation where there would be inadequate occupancy of house space, Massa con- cluded that \any action that the college would take in terms of college housing would be in conjunction with the chapter. We have and will continue to work with the fraternities to utilize space to a maximwn.\ When asked if such a situation did exist where a house couldn't meet occupancy, Massa commented that \in such a case of severe inadequate oc- cupancy, the college would have to officially consider if the house's lease should be renewed.\ All leases for Greek organizations are renewed each July for the next academic year. As Massa noted, it is normally a fonnality such that Continued on page 3 \We want to be the best, we will be the best.\ President John Morris Following this series of speeches, eager students, alwnni, faculty, and members of the administration remained in the foyer for a traditional ribbon cutting ceremony, which took place at precisely 12:44 p.m. Afterwards, refreshments were served, and members of the Athletic Department offered Continued on page 2 In This Issue Talkofrhe Townp. 5 Syracuse Prvfes.mr d;scJtsses sexualit;·p. 7 Jan and Buddy: WoodyAllen 's Radio Days p. !.? Bruce Hornsby & The Range or The Palacep. 14 !loops impnwe to 13~8 p. 20 Women's .skiing goes t(} Eastern regianol p. 20

COJ+fCORDlENSIS, Febntt~ry\l9 1987 Vice President Thomas D'Andrea spe~rks at the press. conference Friday during the Alumni Gym openin~rcelebrations. Campus Welcomes $6.2M Complex Continued from page 1 eitb.er visit the recreation office or cUI 371J.6119. guided tours of the complex Moss~ at Unio:ri> since the between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. The conception of the idea of a tours, through levels 1, con- renovated gym, said; \The cot.lrse, 2, and 3, covered views inconvenience was tremendous of everything from the pc>ol, the at times, but we're beginning to racquetball and squash courts, realize that it was worth it., the Nautilus and free-weight Morris added, \-we want to be rooms, the recreation equip- the best. We will be the best.\ ment cage, and the spectator- observer levels, to the locker rooms, the team classrooms, and the V.I.P. lounges. On one tour, the guide claimed that the complex is so extensive that, \It's going to take a while for people to learn their way around!\ Members of the Union community gathered in the pool area to witness President Morris' inaugural swim at 4:30 p.m. After he completed a lap, Moss and Professor of Physics . Christopher Jones took a dive into the opposite end of the olympic-size pool. Immediately afterwards, the gym was opened ·for campus use. Mammola Gives Admlnis:fra·tion Opini~n: . Entire House Cons'idered Res;ponsible Continued from page 1 -against the entire house. This • · any activities in the present ·does not mean that every in· fraternity house. di'\liduaJ. member of the Hobart a few years ago, ac• cording to the national office. In that case, the national itself 5. At the end of :the ! fraternity may have been guilty · probationary period, the of participating ln this activity. · . fraternity may petition the . But . since the activity was C()llege and the Alumni Cor- conducted under the auspices of • ·recommended suspension for a . period of tbne. The college suspended the house. for three potation for a resumption of its the fraternity; :without any living privilege in the house; . appa.re11t protest from any · years, .ostensibly until the membership at the time grat\uated. . 6. During the period of mem:bers, one must conclude probation, the College will work · that it was an accepted activity · Dean Mammola added. that another consideration was that with the undergraduate by the fraternity, hence the members and the Alumni action that has been taken.\· · a .member of Sigma Phi was . arrested on campus by the Schenectady police three yea.rs . ''Sillce the activity was ago. Ile was charged w1th . conducted under the auspices selling cocaine, was convicted · t and expelled. from school. That Corporation officers to restore . the· status of the fraternity on the campus through a series of · co()perative developmental · programs. · Members of Sigma Phi would · not comment on the discipline decision. Dean Mammola provided his view of the situation,, sa)'ing ''The College views this incident as an el¢remely .serious matter in that a large amount of an illegal drug was being cultivated in the house. The College holds the Sigma Phi fraternity responsible for . allowing this activity to be C()nducted in the house. Ther-efore, .the punishment that has been enacted is being taken of tile fraternity , • • one mus incident, Dean Mammola conclude that it was an ac- · l:)elieves~ should have shown the · cepted action . • . hence the . house, how serious drug~related a . ctio· n that has been. taken.\ · · 'd t · · .: m=· c~I==en~_=s~a=r~e·~·-----~~------- . · · · DeanMammola · \This incident is not related He later added, · \It is ap- • parent that this activity . was ,• to the · incident involving · · Delta Upsilon.\ · bemg conducted with. the fUll complicity of the officers of the house, who . represent the members of the house.\ When asked why one officer in .par- ticl.ilar was apparently singled out., he replied, \It's not ' · Dean Manimola He described the disciplinary situation as an Wlderstanding between the alumni corporation • . and the College, saying that the , alwnni uwish the pW1ishrnent wasn't what ii is but understand and will cooperate ·with the College.\ When asked if ·this decision was a sign of weakening fraternities at unreasonable to hold the president responsible. Among other actions that cquld have been taken, this was reasonable; we could have suspended the chapter in- definitely, extended the period ! · for which they have to vacate the bouse, it could have been effective immediately . . . \ · A similar incident occurred at the Sigma Phi chapter at j Union, Dean Manunola replied \The best· way of endangering fraternities at Union is to gr.ow marijuana in your basemen~.\ He reiterated that ''this incident if! not related in any way to the mcident involving Delta Upsilon (this past fall term).\ ERRATUM: Last week's. issue rep-orted· that Professor Gada's resolution passed by a 52%-48% margin. The vot~ was in fact 58%-42%. Con- cordiensis regrets this error. The intramural staff reminds everyone with questims about the Alumni Gymnasium to Student Forum President Steve Moss, President Morris, and Trustee Peter Van D\Yck during the ribl>on-cutting ceremony. Campus-Community Relations Contemplated Editors' Note: This article is an lntroductlon to a series of articles which will start in the next issue of Concordiensis. We hope that tbis will raise questions and create interest in the future articles and in thereby- the community outside Union. By KRISTINE BURNIIAM What do you think of when you think of Schenectady? Generally, most Union students would answer this questi()n with a negative remark about \doids\ or some comment on the weather. In the Union conununity, however, there are people who would flinch to hear these responses--and Some Union-affiliated people are aetually trying t.o better the Schenectady cornmWlity. You'll hear from them in the fature. No matter what your opinion is of Schenectady, a few things should be considered as you contemplate a 'concept' of Schenectady. Union College is only a part of this commUility. It is a part and will always be a part of Schenectady. There is no way to take the Nott Memorial and West Beach and move them to Boston. Union College belongs in and to Schenectady, and we should make the best of it. The city itself benefits from · the presence of such a prestigious college as Union. Therefore, the city has; especially under the guidance of Mayor Karen Johnson, done a · great deal to make Schenectady a better, nicer environment. The refurbishment of the downtown area including Proctor's Theatre, goes a long way in shoWing off what .good there is in Schenectady. The faculty geneL\a]y lives in the vicinity .of the College. To attract a quality faculty, such as we have here, p~rt of the final selling point ma;y lie in the area in which the College is located. Candidates c~nsidering a position at the College weigh their decision witll the ato tractiveness of the Stll'roW1ding envir-orunent in mind. The Capital Dist1ict as a whole also has a great deal to offer. Albany, it may be remembered, is indeed the capital of New York State. The Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza is a !)!lace that every()ne should visit. The concourse with variotts events, the legislature itself, but most importantly, there is the Egg. The Egg is a cult11r-al center where performances of many kinds are ·held, including various symphonies. ''lbere are aslo many restaurants and stores that cater to the more cosmoiJOlitan crowds tllat come t() Albany on business. Of course, the gamblers among you all reali2ii that we are nvt far from thE Saratoga Raceway. However, \Sarat()ga\ means more than just horses: there are bars, restanr-ants, museums, and boutiques that are favorites among those wh() frequent the area for its racing. So wmere does Union College fit in all of this? Where is our role in the eommmity? As studeats at Uni()n, we are residents of Schenectady for the better part of four years. Unfort1111ately, many of us have a limited and prejudiced view of what's going on around the walls of Union. As long as this outlook is maintained we are isolating ourselves from the world ar()und us and not giving our- selvesthe chance to profit from · the positive aspects of the off- campus community or, in return, adding our positive influence to the Schenectady NASSAU, BAHAMAS . . \ 1 ludes•. RT air flight • Hotel transfers • 7 nights hotel lodging . 3 nc hi ~at cruise • NightclUb ;admissions • On-loatlon tour n; e~entaltlvt • 3 beilo::h parties. Rates do not Include sa d~ure tiiiCeS Hot.:ls ille av;aflillble e~n. ilm1.off the beildl. Rate't L * d on ·~d ac:c:upilncy. .All r<~~tu based on Phlllldelphla · iiU'e , .... se ..-- · · dd $30 · deoartur.:s '\ ~ew Vorl! add UO- • Boston a . • .. . Fl: LAUDERD.. . . '1~9 ·lnclud•U: 7 nights hotel lodging • ·ilf1 ta11es ~ swcllarges On- loc:lltlan tour represcnt.atlve n l/ldcome pillty at Sunvn~s on th: Bul:h • optiOIIill i'o!indtrlp illlrfar-c \ ee~lty Inn on US \'~ - $129. L..udcrdille Biltmore (In Strip (bt,ael'lfront) - Sl89. Days IM L;auder~le Surf on Strip (beon::hfront) - S2H. R;ater; balscd on IIUild o~c:u ncv . • . . . MONTEGO BAY, JIJMJJICA $389 · lncl~o.~des;. RT air flight • Hotel t;ransfers \ 7 nights; hotel lodging \ on-locll.tlon tour represent.athie \' ~ptlonal beach p;ll'tles, bo.at crulsu ;and dily trips. R;ates do riot Include S 11 depNi:urt; Ulles. Hotels avall.able. on and oft. beKII. R~tes ·Used on· qUi1ld oc:cupMcy ancll1ew York ( JFK) depvturu. ~...R)STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES . . . · . . · For information ·c::all: 1 801) 648-4849 USA 1 800 648-4875. NVS 1 607 272-6964 lOCAL . i I .. '

CONCORDfENSIS, February 19, 1987 N :!:: ::) :.c: u (/') u w Vice President Thomas D'Andrea speaks at the press conference Friday during the Alumni Gym opening celebrations. Campus Welcomes $6.2M Complex Continued from page 1 guided tours of the complex between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. The tours, through levels 1, con- course, 2, and 3, covered views of everything from the pool, the racquetball and squash courts, the Nautilus and free-weight rooms, the recreation equip- ment cage, and the spectator- observer levels, to the lecker rooms, the team classrooms, and the V.I.P. lounges. On one tour, the guide claimed that the complex is so extensive that, \It's going to take a while for people to learn their way around!\ Members of the Union community gathered in the pool E area to witness President E Morris' inaugural swim at 4:30 U') p.m. After he completed a lap, · ~ Moss and Professor of Physics :fi Christopher Jones took a dive ~ into the opposite end of the ~ olympic-size pool. Immediately £i' afterwards, the gym was .E 0 opened for campus use. .c The intramural staff reminds o. everyone with questions about either visit the recreation office or call 370-6119. Moss, at Union since the conception of the idea of a renovated gym, said, \The inconvenience was tremendeus at times, but we're beginning to realize that it was worth it.\ Morris added, \we want to be the best. We will be the best.\ Mammola Gives Administration Opinion: Entire House Considered Res·ponsible Contintted from page 1 ·against the entire house. This any activities in the present does not mean that every in- . fraternity house. dividual member ef the 5. At the end of the fraternity may have been guilty probationary .period, the of participat:iRg in this activity. fraternity may petition the But since the activity was College and the Alwnni Cor- conducted Wlder the auspices of ,poration for a resumption of its the fraternity, without any living privilege in the house. apparen.t .protest from any 6. During the period of members, one must conclude probation, the College will work that it was an accepted activity with the undergraduate by the fraternity, hence the members and the Alumni action that has been taken.'' Corporation officers to restore the statrrs of the fraternity on the ca!llpus through a series of cooperative dev·elopmental programs. Members of Sigma Phi would not coii1II1ent Oil the discipline decision. Dean Mannnola provided his view of the situation, saying \The College views this incident as an eKtl:\emely serious matter in that a large amount of an illegal drug was being cultivated in the house. The College holds the Sigma Phi fraternit:y responsible for allowing this activity to oe conducted in the house. Therefore, the punishment that has been enacted is being taken \Since the activity was conducted under the auspices of the fraternity ... one must conclude that it was an ac- cepted action . . . hence the action that has been taken.\ Dean Mammola He later added, \It is ap- parent that this activity was being conducted with the full complicity of the officers of the house, who represent the members of the house.\ When asked why one officer in par- ticular was apparently singled out, he replied, \It's not unreasonable to hold the president responsible. Among other actions that could have been taken, this was reasonable; we could have suspended the chapter in- definitely, extended the period for which they have to vacate the house, it could have been effective immediately ... \ A similar incident occurred at the Sigma Phi chapter at Hobart a few years ago, ac- cording to the national office. In that case, the national itself recommended suspension for a period of time. The college suspended the house for three years, ostensibly until the membership at the time graduated. Dean Mammola added that another consideration was that a member of Sigma Phi was arrested on campus by the Schenectady police three years ago. He was charged with selling cocaine, was convicted and expelled from school. That incident, Dean Mammola believes, should have shown the house how serious drugQrelated incidents are. \This incident is not related to the incident involving Delta Upsilon.\ Dean Mammola He described the disciplinary situation as an understanding between the alumni corporation and the College, saying that the . alumni \wish the punishment wasn't what it is but understand and will cooperate with the College.\ Wb.en asked if this decision was a sign of weakening fraternities at Union, Dean Mammola replied \The best way of endangering fraternitie~ at Union is to grow marijuana i.n your basement.\ He reiterated that \this incident is not related i.n any way to the incident involving Delta Upsilon (this past fall term).\ ERRATUM: Last week's issue reported that Professor Gado's resolution passed by a 52%-48% margin. The vote was in fact 58%-42%. Con- cordiensis regrets this error. the Alumni Gymnasium to Student Forum President Steve Moss, President Morris, and Trustee Peter VanDyck during the ribbon-cutting ceremony. Campus-Community Relations Contemplated Editors' Note: This article is an introduction to a series of articles which will start in the next issue of Concordiensis. We hope that this will raise questions and create interest in the future articles and in thereby- the community outside Union. By KRISTINE BURNHAM What do you think of when yo a think of Schenectady? Generally, most Union students would answer this question with a negative remark about \doids\ or some comment on the weather. In the Union community, however, there are people who would flinch to hear these responses--and some Union-affiliated people are ac.tually trying to better the Schenectady conunWlity. You'll hear from them in the future. No matter what your opinion is of Schenectady, a few things should be considered as you contemplate a 'concept' of - Schenectady. Union College is only a part of this comrnunity. It is a part and will always be a part of Schenectady. There is ne way to take the Nott Memorial and West Beach and move them to Boston. Union College belongs in and to Schenectady, and we should make the best of it. The city itself benefits from the presence of such a prestigious college as Union. Therefore, the city has, especially under the guidance of Mayor Karen Johnson, done a great deal to make Schenectady a better, nicer environment. The refurbishment of the downtown area including Proctor's Theatre, goes a long way in shoWing off what good there is in Schenectady. The faculty generally lives in the vicinity of the College. To attract a quality faculty, such as we have here, part of the final selling point may lie in the area in which the College is located. Candidates considering a position at the College weigh their decision with the at· tractiveness of the surrounding environment in mind. The Capital District as a whole also has a great deal to offer. Albany, it may be remembered, is indeed the capital of New York State. The Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza is a place that everyone should visit. The concourse with various events, the legislature itself, but most importantly, there is the Egg. The Egg is a cultural center where performances of many kinds are held, including various symphonies. There are aslo many restaurants and stores that cater to the more cosmopolitan crowds that come to Albany on business. Of course, the gamblers among you all realize that we are not far from the Saratoga Raceway. However, \Saratoga\ means more than just horses: there are bars, restaurants, museums, and boutiques that are favorites among those who frequent the area for its racing. So where does Union Co1Iege fit in aU of this? Where is our role in the community? As students at Union, we are residents of Schenectady for the better part of four years. Unfortunately, many of us have a limited a.nd prejudiced view of what's going on around the walls of Union. As long as this outlook is maintained we are isolating ourselves from the world around us and not giving our- selves the chance to profit from the positive aspects of the off- campus community or, in return, adding our positive influence t() the Schenectady area. .. Plt~STAKINQ TlmMCAT'S'mti SPRING OR FALL 1he MOAT application paeki~ts are m and can he picked up fu: Dean Roth's office EaileyHall, :&om.201 NASSAU, BAHAMAS $349 Includes: RT illr flight • Hotel transhrs • 7 nl_?hts hotel loc:l9lng \ 3 hr boilt cruise • Nightclub admissions On-loatlon tour e~enUtlve • 3 buch parties. Ratu do not ln<:lude $8 ~e: urt tiiiMt:S Hotels .ue av;allable on <lind off tht buch. R;ates •u~nd on ·~d occupancy. All rates bued on Phllildelpnlill dtn.utur~s .. New York ;nod $20. • Boston iidd $30. FT. LJJUDERD . $129 Includes: 7 nights hotel lodgl119 • illl tiiMes ~ surchillrges • On- lociltiDn tour representative • Welcome pMty ;at Summers on th! Bee~ch • aptlon.ill roW1dtrlp alrf-. • Berkley IM on US. *'1 - $129. Lauder~l• Biltmore on St~lp (buchfront) - S189. • Oilys IM tilluderd411e 5urf on Strip (!Machfront) - $209. R;atu ~wised on quad occu nc., . MONTEGO BAY, JAMJJICIJ $389 Includes: RT ;;air flight • Hotel transf111s • 7 nights hohl lodging \ on-location tour reprcscnt.atlve \ optlonill buch Pilfllu, boillt crulsu md day trips. Ratts do not Include I 11 dep.vture tiiNts. Hotels illlilllwle on ;and gff b.,Kh. Riltii:S bOll sed on QulMI occ~cy iiOd New York (JFK) dtpill'tures. ~~STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES For information caU: 1 800 648-4849 USA 1 800 648-4875 tiVS 1 607 272-6964 LOCAL THIS WEEK'S EVENTS 'l'hursd~y Feb.lh Friday, Feb.2(h 11 a.m.-4> p.m. Davidson Lounge~ nloodmoblle. 4:80-6: OOp.m. Milano Lounge. Meditation Group. &!00.7:00p.m. lJaleHuuse. Fine Dining. . 7:45--9:00 p.m. West College. CDC Workshop; ; 8elf .. Assessm'fnt. $ 1 tO p.m. Old Chapel. Cabaret 11 a..m ... s p.m. Davidson Lounge.llloodmnbile . . . . . . , . . . . . . . .. 3:36p.m. Hum. 213. Philosophy Ofj, .. unt; Pri>f. Ro:J!. ~ers ()~ Russell Sage C~llege 1 ''l'he Re ~e ofH 's Social and Political Philosophy.\ 5:()9.,7 ;OOp.m. &1eJloU$e. · e Dining. 1 f ~'\ 11 p.m. S$016.1!'ibp;! T~p&un. , . ;:

CONCORDIENSJS, February 19. 19~7 Page3 Campus Lottery System_Modified, Sophomores Gain Advantage; Seniors L~ Priority By LEE ANNS()BMJDT Each year between 40;,.55 sophomore males life off campus. According tt> a recent telephone poll, the majority of these students :me~ved off campus because tlley believed they would n01t · receive desirable housing ~n campus, or fur that matter in rnany cases, · any on-campiJS. lt()wing at all. . \Many sophomore males are 'l!ushed' · off eam.pus and · deprived of. the opp~trtunity to live on-campus.'' SAC ~~~----~·~----~~ In their rationalE for the more adequately~for off-campus housing than sophomores through contacts, networldng and apartment-lease hand-me- downs.'' The SAC recom- mendations for the modification of the present residence life lottery system are as follows: 1. That the priority order presently established for the singles lottery and co-op lottery remain unchanged. 2~ That the priority system .for all other independent campll$ housing be changed as · follows: sophomore, juniors, seniors. · 3. That students living off- . campus be eligible to par- ticipate in the lottery beginning with the 1987438 academic year. wish to live in Greek houses, these spaces are often left vacant. Increasing the oc• cupancy rate of these houses would open up :both on and' off;. campus housing for use by independents. Dean Mammola also . pointed out that houses would be given approximately a year and a half to increase their occupancy rate after they had been warned. Next week the Student Forum will hold a meeting to <lli!cuss the modification of the current lottery system. This meet~g . will be ope11 to interested students. who wish to express their thoughts on the issue. · . Signs giving details concerning this. meeting will be posted · around campus. ThE -proposed AE Pi house off-campus, 203 Seward Place, is presently being negotiated for the 1'98:7-1988 year. .r: :':: E IJ') ftl u u (!) .0 (!) 0:: >- .0 0 .... 0 .r: a. modification- of tile lottery .system, the Student Affairs Couneil ('SAC) statedtltat \The present .system creates early and unnecessary- anxiety among freshmen-particularly males-who. are. led to believe they ffililY not receive aG· ceptable on-camp11s housing during the :sophomore year.\ Dean of Resideru:e life David Wood also pointed ~>ut that, of the three classe$ entering the lottery, sophomores are !'the least prepared to cope with the pressures of obtaining housing and living off campus.\ Fur- thermore, under tile current lottery system, oncoe students move off-campus tlt~y: are no longer eligible to pi11r1idpate in the lottery in subs~uent years. Thus, the SAC (urtller justifies its modifications,. statingnthat \ln fact, many Se>!)homore males ·are pushed off-campus and deprived. of Ute .o]lportunity to live on-eampll& :for the remainder of tQ.eiT years at Union.\ 4. That an fraternities. ans sorol,'ities residing in college- owned housing be required to maintairi a mini.m_um 95 .percent · Qccupancy rate in a given year, beginning With the 1987~1988 academic year. _ .- . 5. That the recommendations Massa Co.mments On Recent Attenfio.n: to Greek Housing February 5, the .SAC ap- proved a modificati.on. to the current resid~nce li:fe lottery system,,which they believe will improve · this_ situati()n. The members of the SA.C are Dean Joseph Mammola~ Professor Susan Benack, AsSCJe .. Dean of Undergratuate Studies, Willard Roth, KimmQ Rosmtllal, and students Lisa Kaplan, Kim Quirk, Kevin Irl11nd; and Joanne McAndrews. The modification plan wa& approved by seven of the eight members of the group. The purt»ose of the plan the SAC approved is . to maximize opportullities for. living on campus for af! many students as possible; to utilize the available spac·e to its greatest potential, wbile shif- ting the pressure of dealing with off-campus housing ont() those who can hanllle it best. They believe that \Senior~ are more knowledgable .about tile local area, have the abilityt~ prepare Pre-Registration Materials Will Be Availa111e Tom.orrow Cit Silliman 111111 be ifuplerriented spring term of 1988. Dean Wood, whQ acted as a consultant to the SAC on this modification, stated that he believed the SAC developed a \good recommendation to a difficult situation.'' . When he was questioned about the fourth modification, Dean Manunola stressed that it was not. their intention or desire to kick anyone off campus, ratherthattheir preference was to have fraternities and sororities enact a policy to encourage the members to live in the house; and if their oc- . cupancy rate falls below 95 i>ercent, have a mandatory . r.esid·ency requirement. · Mammola also stated that \The overwhelming majority of fraternities and sororities meet that number without any dif~ ficUlty.\ David Wood stated that \the problems were con- sistently with the same two or three houses.\ The winter cocupancy of some fell as low as . 60 percent, which brougqt the average percentage of oc- cupancy of Greek houses owned . by the school down to 88 · cent. Because few incleJ)en(Jien1ts Continued from page 1 each lease is automatically renewed. Occupancy levels of up- . campus ~ouses such as Delta Chi, Delta Gamma:, and Theta · Delta Chi are below full capacity, according to a report released by Residence Life; however, Massa affirml3 that · rumors of revoked leases are mtfotmded.. \As far as I'm concerned, every fraternity and · sorority occupying college · housing is secure, with tbe exception of Sigma Phi.\ \In such a case of . • . inadequate occupancy, the college would have to of· . ficially consider if the house''s lease should be renewed.\ -Dean.Massa With the chartering of three Greek societies within the past three years, new housing on- campus is also a question being raised. For . example, cited Dean Massa, when Gamma Phi Beta was colonizing at Union, ''we told them that there would not be a house for them in the horizon.\ matter of he . Professor B sums up feelings concerni.ng the pool - and the weather- at opening ceremonies. Final4udition Night! for the Spring Term Production of Waiting !For (jodot . 6y Samue[ Tonight at 8 p.m. 'lJec~tt Sign up in the ~ott Memorial GreenRoom {AD Roles Open To Men & Women) 21()ded, \the college does not luave an obligation to house Greek organizations; there is n()thing in writing saying we DlllSt.\ \'The college believes there is· valoe in group housing ••• but we're not going to tolerate violations.\ -was no opportWlity tG live on- . campus in the near future, we ,began to look off-campus, -wi1hout the college.\ -Dean Massa · The possibility of Delta Upsilon also settling a house off- Cillllpus seems Ulllikely to Dean N~ssa. \As a C()ndition of the sanctions that resulted from DU' s fall probation. the college VJiJl allow them as a group to petition for housmg in Fall 1988; tllere is no menti1011 of how the c:ollege will respond, however. If they petition, I think the eollege's reaction: will have to ti1li;:e two factor'S into con- sideration. One will be llVIiilability on campus; two is wltether they have proved tbemselves a viable ~rganization ill the com- mllllity.\ Massa went Dn to say tllllt this condition as well as the c~llege's coopexation with Greek organizations in filling tb~ir houses \proves our rec()gnition of the importance of Greek life at Union.\ Massa adied, \The college believes t!J.ere is value in gr<Oup housing . .• i\'e're not agaimlt it •.. but we're· not going t() tolerate vi~l.ations of social conduct.\ In recognition of the cramped ho;using situation and other Greek societies on campus, . Alpha Epsilon Pi is negotiating for an off-campus house as pr()spects for on-campus ho\Ming seems far in the future. Aec()rding to Massa, the al!\ of 203 Seward P121c:e for Union's AEPi chapter ~ IJeing finalized. Said he, \The !Jnly concern was parking. Ot.viously, the college has made it lmown that the members may pal'k: their cars in commuter lots as can anyone living off. campus.\ Vice-President of .AE:Pi Steve Moss cited the rceason why the fraternity d-ecided to consider off-campus h()Wing. \We were looking for the opportunity to live together to increase the unity. As there The Potential Effect$ of the Reagan Administration Gil Financial Aid Approved Budget n 198.7 Reagan's Proposed Badge-t Relrision ~ 1987 lteagan's Proposed Budget Flr 1988 PeJ.l Grants $3.8 billion -+$6:2 million $2. 7l bU U.on Shortfall*: $100 million t$~25 million $412.5 million -S4l~.5 million 0 •ltfoxlc:-Study $592.5 million -$59~.5 million o $118 million -$ll8 million $76 million -~76 million 0 0 G:SL $3.004 billion -$~8':7 million Sl.l 77 b.ll lion 'I\R::XO $176.4 million -~94 million $82:.~ million P'exlcins Loans S210 mil:Uon -$188 million $26 million teL· $5 million $&00 million IJ.Sot&l s!i.2 billion $2 .()55 billion :;>4o.~ )?UlJ.on * adcU tional f\mds to compensate :for inadequate a:llocation. FY • fiscal year Source: American council o~ Education President Reagan's proposed blldl!et for fiscal year 1988 '\VOllld reduce allocatiims for the Department of Education from $1!!.5 billion to $14 billion, with most of :tile cuts coming from c.; 46 percent slash in student aid fmtdillg •. Programs desig11ed to aid stt~t:lents from low- and n'liddle-inc(Jme families would bear the bl'11llt of the proposed cuts, while ei controversial income- colltingent loan program would bedr~r.natically increased. Corrections in Final Eurn Schedule Ni6nday, March 16th, 9:00-11:00 a.m. MrH 10-.1-Calculus r, 'W. Stone· Bl-1201. M.onday, March 16th, 2:00·4:00 p.m. f'SY 34-The Psych of Lang' D\ Andrea· PYl02. Tuesday, March 17th, 9:00-11:00 a.m. MTHI-136-Real Variable Theory I. A. TaYior-BH-102. . PSY-3S·Dev Psych, Stanhope.·PY213. . Thursday, March 19th, 9:00-11:00 a.m. CHM·l2, Sec. !·Fundamental <:hem ll,Hay.es:HU-019. • ., . \ •. ' .. .. .. •• -~ ... • .. • .. • t .... _ ..

CONCORDIENSIS~ Febr11ary 19, 1987 Page3 Campus Lottery System Modified Sophomores Gain Advantage; Seniors Los~ Priority By LEE ANN SCIIMIDT Each year bEtween 40·55 sophomore males life off campus. According to a recent telephone poll, tile 11111jority of these students moved off campus because the:y believed · they would nDt receive desirable housing on campus, or · for that matter in ma~y cases,. any on-campus hcusin~ at all. \Many sophomore males are 'pushed' off eam.pus and deprived of the opp()rtllDity to live on-campus.\ SAC more adequately for off-campus housing than sophomores through contacts, networking and apartment-lease hand-me- downs.\ The SAC recom- mendationsfor the modification of the present residence life lottery system are as follows: 1. That the priority order presently established for the singles lottery and co-op Iottery- remain unchanged. 2. That the priority system for all other independent campus housing be changed as foHows: sophomore, juniors, seniors. 3. That students living off. campus be eligible to par· ticipate in the lottery beginnin.g with the 1987-88 academic year. wish tc live in Greek houses, these spaces are often left vacant. Increasing the oc- cupancy rate of these h()uses would open up both on and off~ campus housing for use by independents. Dean Mammola also pcinted out that houses wouldbe given approximately a year and a half to increase their occupancy rate after they had been warned. Next. week the Student Forum wiH hold a meeting to discuss the modification of the current lottery system. This meeting . will be ()pen to interested students who wish to express their thoughts on the issue. Signs giving details concerning this meeting will be posted araund campus. ·. -~ The proposed AEPi !:louse off-campus/ 203 Seward Place/ is presently being oegotiated for the 1987·1'?88 year. In their rational~ for the modification of t:he lottery system, the Student A£fairs Council (SAC) statedthat \The present system crede.s early and unnecessary- anxiety among freshmen-particularly males-who are led to believe they may not recEive ac- ceptable on-campus bo using during the sophomQre year.\ Dean of Residence Life David Wood also pointed out that, of the three classes entEiing the lottery, sophomores ar-e ''the least prepared to ·cope with the pressures of obtaining IJ()using and living off carniJIIS.\ Fur- thermore, under the clll'l\ent lottery system, once st11dents move off-campus tlley are no longer eligible to par-ticipate in the lottery in subsequent years. Thus, the SAC further justifies its modifications, statingntllat \In fact, many S<Jpllomore males are pushed off-campus and deprived of the ()pp()rtunity to live on-campus .for the remainder of their ye~u·s at Union.\ 4. That all fraternities ans sororities residing in college- owned housing be required to maintain a minimum 95 percent occupancy rate in a given year, beginning with the 1987-1988 academic year. 5. That the recommendations be implemented spring term of 1988. Dean Wood, who acted as a consultant to the SAC on this modification, stated that he believed the SAC developed a \good recommendation to a difficult situation.\ Massa Comments On Recent Attention to Greek Housing Continued from page 1 February 5, the SA.C ap- proved a modification t() the current residence life }()ttery system, which they b-elie-ve will improve this sit11ation. The members of the SAC !Ue Dean Joseph Mammola, Professor Susan Benack, Assvc. l>ean ()f Undergratuate Studies. Willard Roth, Kimmo Rose11tbal, and students Lisa Kaplan,. Kim Quirk, Kevin Irland,. and Joanne McAndrews. The modification plan was a.pprQved by seven of the eight members of the group. The purpo~e of the plan the SAC approved is to maximize opportu11ities for living on campus for !iS many students as possible, to utilize the available space to its greatest potential, while shif- ting the pressure of dealing with off-campus housing ()onto those who can handle it best. They believe that \Seniors are more knowledgable about the local area, have the ability to prepare Pre- RegistrG1ion Materials Will Be Available Tomorrow at Silliman Half When he was questioned about the fourth modification, Dean Mammola stressed that it was nut their intention or desire to kick anyone off campus, rather that their preference was to have fraternities and sororities enact a policy to encourage the members to live in the house, and if their oc- cupancy rate falls below 95 percent, have a mandatory . residency requirement. Mammola also stated that \The overwhelming majority of fraternities and sororities meet that number without any dif- ficulty.\ David Wood stated that \the problems were con- sistently with the same two or three houses.\ The winter cocupancy of some fell as low as 60 percent, which brought the average percentage of oc- cupancy of Greek houses owned by the school down to 88 per- cent. Because few independents each lease is automatically renewed. Occupancy levels of up- campus houses such as Delta Chi, Delta Gamma, and Theta Delta Chi are below full capacity, according to a 1eport released by Residence Life; however, Massa affirms that rUIBQrs of revoked leases are unfounded. \As far as I'm concerned, every fraternity and sorority occupying college housing is secure, with the exception of Sigma Phi.\ \In such a case of • . . inadequate occupancy, 1:he college would have to of- Jicially eonsider if the house's lease should be renewed.\ -Dean Massa With the chartering of three Greek S()cieties within the past three years, new housing on- campus i.E also a question being raised. For example, cited Dean Massa, when Gamma Phi Beta was colonizing at Union, \we told them that there would not be a house for them in the horizon.\ As a matter of he Professor Bick sums up feelimgs concerning the pool · and the weather· at opening ceremonies. Final Audition Night! for the Spring Term Production of Waiting !For (jotfot 6y Samue{ Tonight at 8 p.m. 'Bec/(g.tt Sign up in the Nott Memorial GreenRoom ( All Roles Open To Men & Women) added, \the college does not have an obligation tQ house Greek organizations; til ere is nothing in writing saying we must.\ \The college believes there is value in group housing •.. but we're not going to tolerate violations.\ -Dean Massa In recogniti()n of the cramped housing situation and other Greek societies on campus, Alpha Epsilon Pi is negotiating for an off-campus hollSe as prospects for on-campus housing seems far in the future. According to Massa, the acquisition of 203 Seward Place for Union's AEPi chapter is being finalized. Said he, ''The only concern was parking. Obviously, the college has made it known that the membe1s may park their cars in commuter lots as can anyone living off. campus.\ Vice-President of AEPi Steve Moss cited the reason why the fraternity decided to consider off-campus housing. \We were looking for the opportunity to live together to increase the unity. As there was no opp()rtWlity to live on- campus in the near future, we began to look off-campus, without the college. \ The possibility of Delta Upsilon also settling a house off- campus seems unlikely to Dean Massa. ''As a candition of the sanctions that resulted from DU's fall probation, the college will allow them as a group to petition for housing in Fall1988; there is no mention of how the college will respond, however. If they petition, I think the college's reaction will have to take two factors into con- sideration. One will be availability on camp11s; two is whether they have proved themselves a viable organization in the com- munity.\ Massa went on to say that this condition as well as the college's cooperation with Greek organizations in filling their houses \proves our recognition of the importance of Greek life at Union.\ Massa added, \The college believes there is value in group housing . .. we're not against it ... but we're not going to tolerate violations of social conduct.\ The Potential Effects of the Reagan Administration on Financial Aid Program Approved Budget FY 1987 Reagan's Proposed Budget Revision FY~ Reagan's Proposed Budget FY 1988 Pell Grants $3.8 billion +$62 million $2.71 billion Shortfall*: $100 million +$225 million SEOG $412.5 million -$412.5 million 0 Work-Study $592.5 million -$592.5 million 0 NDSL SSIG $118 million -$118 million $76 million -$76 million 0 0 GSL $3.004 oillion ·$287 million $1.177 billion TRIO $176.4 mil1ion -$94 million $82.4 million Perkins Loans $210 mil1ion -Sl88 million $5 milli.on $26 million $600 million 'rotal $8.2 billion $2.055 billion $4.5 billion * additional funds to compensate for inadequate allocation. FY • fiscal year Source: American Council on Education President Reagan's proposed budget for fiscal year 1988 would reduce allocations for the Department of Education from $19.5 billion to $14 billion, with most of the cuts coming from c. 46 percent slash in student aid funding. Programs designed to aid students from low- and middle-income families would bear the brunt of the proposed c11ts, while a controversial income- contingent loan program would be dramatically increased. Corrections in Final Exam Schedule Monday, March 16th, 9:00·11 :00 a.m. MTH 10-1 Calculus 1, w. Stone BH20l. Monday, March 16th, 2:00-4:00 p.m. PSY 34-The Psych of Lang, D'Andrea-PY102. Tuesday, March 17th, 9:00·11: 00 a.m. MTH 136 Real Variable Theory I. A. Taylor·BH·l02. PSY·38·Dev Psych I Stanhope-PY213. Thursday/ March 19th, 9:00·11:00 a.m. CHM-.12, Sec. I Fundamental Chern I I, Hayes-HU 019. .c +- E til Ill v u <1J .0 <1J 0:: >- .0 0 - 0 .c a_ I

Page 4-. CONCORDIENSIS; Februory'i.9 1 f987\ • -· \' -r-- - :- .. -· • - - '!' ·- •• ,. ,. ,_' . ' - •• • • \\- ~ • _. • • • - . - . ._,, ·' . . -~ . - -------NOTEWORTHYNEWS--· --- Rep. Frank Appears on ''Nigntline'' Two days after his February 11 Minerva Lecture ap~>,_earance at Union, Representative Barney Frank appeared as Ted Koppel's guest on \Nigbtline\. Among the subjects discussed were health care, the federal budget, and the Reagan ad- ministration. For a review of Rep. Frank's talk at Union, see the full-length article in the Features Section. Library Receives Compact Disc- Computer Research System A CD-ROM Reference Workstation is in use at Schaffer Library as a pjlot test project funded by the Library, an IEF Grant, and the Vice President for Academic Affairs. CD-ROM is an innovative compact disc technology using an mM PC XT and a compact disc drive to search databases and research tools on laser · ~~scs. In recent years, the , Library h~s offered to the callege conununity online in- termediary database sear- ching,. with librarians per- · forming computer searches for patrons. The CD-ROM Workstation provides the first opportunity for patrons of Schaffer library to conduct their own computer database searching in-house. This is possible because of the self- contained nature of the CD- ROM workstation and the structure of the software programs which allow sear- chers at all levels, from novice to expert, to 'pace' themselves through the search proc~ss. Coordinators of the test project are Assistant Professor Cheryl LaGuardia and · Associate Professor Bruce Connolly, and they encourage · . members of the College- com- . ·munity to explore the various • research tools available on the Workstation, which include: 'Ibe Electronic Encycll»pedia, WILSONDISC (a test ·portion of the W. W. Wilson Co •. indexes, such as Readers' Guide and Social Sciences Index), and a test segment of Dissertation Abstracts Online. Library patrons whodo experiment with tbe Workstation are also en- . couraged · to discuss their reactions to the system with Professors LaGuardia and Connolly. · · \Union Faculty Speak\ Lecture Series Continues This month, the ''Union Faculty Speaks'' free lecture series will continue with five talks on the subject of the role of women in society. Monday, Febraary 23, . Dr. Suzanne Benack, Assistant Professor of Psychology, will speak on the topic \Women View Morality.\ · Assistant Professor of Economics Dr.Lewis Sage will discuss \Recent Developments in the Economic History of Women\ on February 24. ''Visions of Virtue·: the Renaissance Female Portrait\ is the topic ·Of Assistant Professor of Art History Leatrice Mendelsolm, February 25. Linda Ford, Assistant Professor of History speaks February 26 on \Pioneer and Pariah: Women in Medicine''. Cgncluding the series Friday, February 27, Chairinan of the Sociology and Anthropology Department, Martha Huggins, will lecture on 11 Women and Crime: Vixens and Victims\. Benack, Sage,· and Men- delsohn WiH. speak at. the Schenectady Trust -Company; Ford and .Huggins will be at the Northeast Savings Bank. Presentations will be at noon and coffee and tea will be served. · Williams Awaits Opening of. $8.5MGym AID.idst the hoopla of the opening of the new Alumni G.ymnasiwn, collegiate neigh- bor Williams College is presently awaiting their new gym, the Chandler Athletic Center, which is .expected to be . completed this time next year. The $8.5 million gym (com· pared with Union's $6.2-M:) will replace the antique Lasell Gymnasium, which was built in 1886. The old gym, which was inadequate to meet Williams' growing spectator size, will be bid \farewell\ as Williams' basketball team will play their final game Febr11ary 28. . Blake Named New Union Comptroller I Diane T. Blake was recently named Comptroller of the College. She had been W()rking at RPI since 1976 and served as their budget director since 1982. Previously, Blake worked for two local C.P.A. firms, and she received her bachelor's degree in businessachninistration from Siena College. · Protest Against Co~tras Support Planned The ·Central America Solidarity Alliance is spon· sorlng a demonstration· on Tuesday, February 24, :from 4:00 to 5:00p.m., at the corner of Swan St. and Washington Ave. The theme is \Peace arid Justice in All the Americas.\ t]VE'W cyoRI( .. A COLLECIDR'S ' .. ; As IT WAs 150 YEARS AGO! ADD0NETO YOUR COLLECTION TODAY! MAP TR~VEL BACK IN TIME ,._TO .. 1833 .. ANNOUN . ·c. IN. ·G your dpporruni~y to own a full-color repr~ducrion of one of rhe rarest maps · produc..:cd by Nmereemh Century Amencan craftsman Samuel Augustus MitchelL This HB 3 map, Mitchell's Ti-uwller 1 s Guide Through ch~ United Stares, is a richly detailed wealth of information-showing the U.S. before western expansion pushed bo1..1ndarics beyond the Arkansas and Missouri Territorie:;. A COLL . ECID. . . R'S item, this map hus been carefully reproduced from ont of few origfncai · . · . · . Mitchell edainns still in existence. Its compahion index of the same size provides a detailed key and listing of towns, stage, can<1l and steamboat routes as the nation's eyes,turned west following expeditions hy lewis, Clark, Ptke and others. Mr1CHELL was a premier cartographer and geographer of his time, and this tirst·_ever-U.S. -travel map appeared tn 1832. This and later maps were well-known for thctr accuracy anJ attention to detail. Mitchell, a 40-year resident of Philadelphia; once employed 250 people as his work grew in prominence. The handsome mar set is p~intcd on heavy parchmcnt-fiilish paper, measures 17lfz X 22 \lz inches and is suitable for framing. · SATIS~ACTION GUAOIINTEEDI MAIL TODAVI ------~--------------------------------------~- . ORDER FORM · , YL·s. plc:a~L' ,l'nJ me·-· -. wpvl•~~),.,f Mlt<hdl', Truvcllc:r's <Ju1Je of tlw U.S. ar rho: .pru.:c o( $10.00 t·~Kh, ($25.00Jor orJer·o( 4 or mor~). Name~.------------------~--------------------~------~------~----~--------- Address . Ci.ty Stale Zip-----~ Enclosed is _,Check cr Money Order • Send To: J & F Oril!inals, Suite ~11, 200 W. 34rh Ave., Anchorage, Alaska 99503 -- ' .

:I CONCOR/)JENSIS, Febr11aryJj, 1987 PageS FEATURES ·Minerva Hour: Discussion of Politics Talk of The Town By PAUL SCHOP Last week,. the Minerva Hour lecture series once again fulfilled its promise· to bring to our campus speakers who are both informative and en- tertaining. The speaker .for last week's lecture was Congressman Barney Frank. Frt:mk represents a suburban Boston diStfict; He is a liberal Democrat, .and he has been an outspoken critic of President Reagan since be first arrived in Washington, which was in 1981. By the . time that Congressman Fr&nk ·began to speak, the Mu&ic Room was almost overflowing with faculty, students, ad:- ministrators, and. local residents. The congressman spoke for nearly 1% hours. Although his lecture went into a fifteen minute 'overtime, the audience remained in Its seats until after his fillal coinment. Frank began his lectlll'e with a series of well planned barbs aimed at President Reagan and at the far right in general. One of these remarks was aimed at White liouse Communications Director Pat Buchanan. Buchanan had remarked that he· was ·considering running for the Presidency in 1988 because \the greatest political vacuum in this cot.Ultry is to the tight of Ronald Reagan.'' Frank amended this ·line by saying, \The greatest vacuum in this country is to the right of Reagan'·s left ear.~· . After these remarks, Frank discussed how the Democratic Party's in~ernal changes bad strengthened the party, so that it was now in a positiDn to ret'ake theWJii.te House in 1988. He tal)te-d of h9w th,e Pemocrati~ Party, beginning in 1972 had established the most democratiC I)rocedures·,possible fof nominating a Presidential candidate. These reforms, according to Frank, had hurt the Democrats . in the past, because they all()wed those on the extreme left to exert an undue influence over the party's nominating prDcess. These same problems, said Frank, will be a detrimf;lnt to the Republicans in 1988, beca11Se the far right will have an undue influence over the GOP's nominating pr:ocess. Frank feels that it will be difficult for a non-creationist to 'Win the '88 Republican nomination, because ·Of the influence of .t~lev'1sion evangelist Pat Robertson; whom Fr~k called a \maligned nut.\ He also stated that Robertson once claimed to have prayed a hurricane away from Virginia. This storm, said Frank, then hit New England. Frank nextturned his lecture Into a criticism of Reagan's foreign policy. He stated ~hat after the Iran• Contra affair, Reagan's foreign policy was \empty.\ He likened Reagan's overall foreign poli.cy to the Charles Atlas bodybuilding course, because it was based on a philosophy that In order . to stop -all of the world's bullies from . ~causing. trouble for America, all America had to do was to build up its milit~;try muscle. Frank stated that this philosophy has not worked, and he cited such events as the bombing of the· Marine com- poun.d in Beirut, the continued Soviet presence in Afghanistan, pnd the· continued Cuban presence in Angola as sup- porting evidence. He stated that Reagan\s philosophy has had only one success, Grenada, which he claimed could ·have been liberated by the. Chicago 1714 UNfON ST AEET . ~m.. · ... ~ ($18) 374-6647 ~1 Spec;ializing1n ' 0 °10 ~ . sued• & Leather Cleatti'ng c,._v..,P. Shirts & Blouses Laundered . ,,_;'t\ ~ ~to'1'S ·zippers Replaced • Jeans Short~ned · · o\~c.O Charge Accounts Welcome Mr. William Humphrey will be giving a reading of his fiction on *The !:dol and EngHs!l Department invite a If students to attend a discussion of his. work at 3:30 P.M. Mr. Humphrey was nominated for a National Book Award for his first novel, Home from ttle Hill. ediType WORD PROCISSING SERVICE, -Resumes and Cover Letters Technical Typing Term Papers and Theses 1986 rates for firstdrafts received before February l1 1987 ,._ 399-1762 on-Campus delivery can be arranged .. . Police Dep~ent. · Reagan's domestic palicY was the final topic of Frank's lee- ture. He argued that Reagan and his supporters have misinterpreted JFK's phrase, \a rising tide lifts all boats,\ to mean that there would be no need for social welfare · programs if the economy could be made to grow quickly enough. Frank ·criticized this theory by stating that the free market is not concenred with envirohmental regulation, the poor, and the homeless, and that these were matters that wou).d always .req)li.re govern- The C~n~ordy .recently asked: ''What is tour response •~t1le new Alumni Gym?'' ,pthlltographs and interviews by AI Klapper mental intervention. Frank devoted the last twenty-five minutes of his lecture to answering questions posed by the audience. When asked about the Democrats' position on SDI, Frank. stated that the ,party's position was to do nothing that would violate the · ABM ·treaty, such as deploying .a HStar Wars, system, while at the same time continuing to do research on SDI, so that America would not be surprised by a Soviet breakthrough in Star Wars technology. Frank answered other questions, as well. These ranged frQm a discussion of the Democrats' foreign trade policy, to his views on the Graham-Rudman law, to his views on 1988's Presidential hopefuls. \I think tiley did a first rate job and hop~fllllY. people will treat the fadlities with as much care thai was put into building it. ' 1 Fete Diamond '87. \Pres. Morris had a very impressive dive.\ Andrew Lant '87. \What can 1 say, it's amazing. •' Dorothy Taylor '88. \I•ve been lifting for a while and boy, I've really seen a lot : of new faces and big hips!' Phil Mann '88. · p' :.ussagassss~ssassssQ~-~-- ~ree 1o llit Publ_iis..,c: ,u~:g~~~~~~i:S3~m~iS.11-. A TAST~ OF~ AT LIJNCH TIME: W()KEN'S STUDIES LECTURE SERIES Women View Morality Monday. February 2l, 1987 Suzan.ne Benack, Schenectady Trust Conference R()om. Recent Developments .In the £c()nomic Conditions of Women Tuesday, Febli .. ny 24, 1987 Lewis Sage, Schenectaci!J Trust Conference Room Portraiture of Women: Renaissance Images and Beyond Wednesday, February 25. 1987 Leatrice Mendelsohn, Schenectady Trust Conference Room Pioneer and Pariah: Women in Medieine Thursday, February 26, 1987 Linda Ford, Northeast Savings Conference Room Women and Crime: Vixens and Victims Frie!ay, February 27, 1987 Martha Huggins. Northeast, .Savings Conference Room Lect.ures are ~eld 12:(10·1:00 p.m.- at Scherlttctad11 Trust or Northeast Savings Bank In downtown Schenectadv. You may bring your own lunch. Preregistration Is requcited. Career Development ~Center Affirmative Action By MAGGIE.BOIT.ANO With President MorriS' en- . dorsement on September . 30, 1983, Union College subscribed to the institution of an Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and, an Affirmative Action Plan for facul~y and staff on campus. This action was the result of an effort. not only to ensure the existence of equal orportunities for· all employees o the College, but also to foster opportunities for minority and female employees fu becoming more competitive with their · count.,rparts on the job. In accordance with the Civil Rights Legislation paSsed in the 1980's, . all employers · are required by law not to discriminate against sex, color, race, religion, disability, or age. Tbis Js tne Equal Employment Opportunity Polley by which all institutions must abide. Affirmative Action, in con· trast, has beenendorsed only by executive order of the U.S. President and therefore is required by law to · be im- plemented in those at Union institutions Witll government contracts only. Affirmative Action states spedfically that not only must all employer refrain from discrilnination but. also promote !)(llicies and programs for tlwse employees already hired, rhe .goal ~s the achievement by female and minority emplo:yees of a comparable competitive status with their non-discrilninated- against counte~s. · For Union Colloege this means the initiation Qf training programs amd faculty development schemes involving women, blacks, artd minorities. It is a policy of a~etl()n and ex- tends itself into tile hiring, promotion, and firing practices of the College. Tile 111ain .goal is to create a work f()rce that demonstrates co11s.istency with the present mark~ conditions. Specifically, this ~tails hiring a percentage of lllillority and female faculty tltat reflects the current availability of 'l_ualified minorities . and W()JBen ln the marfet:.candittate )iOol. A long term goal is to have a pool of minority faculty with com- parable skills and publications competing for tenure with other faculty members. Dr. Schadler, Union's present Affirmative Action Offieer, recognizes that 'the College firmly believes. in Affirmative Action.\ Implementation, on the other hand, promises to be a difficult and oostly task in- volving mo~ in-depth. searches for qualified faculty and.staff. It is important to recognize that this is not a policy for hiring unqualified faculty of a minority status but rather a means of searchlng.. for and giving equal oppDrtunity (thro~ open recruitment) to all candidates for employment regardless of their status. Students~ esp~cially minorities and women, may benefit from an awareness ()f Affirmative Action when searching themselves for potential jobs. An institution advocating such policies rnay just provide the opportunities for advancement being sought.

CONCORDIENSIS, Febtt~ilrJ! 19, 1987 FEATURES .... .... 10 r:. Ul ~ QJ r ~ ~ u c <( u c: llJ c: 0 - rc :r: >- ~ llJ (!) >- .0 0 0 r:. a. Students with Japanese Hornestay Father at a I ea Gathering ' A Taste of Japanese Tea By CATHY.MARKES Question: What ancient ceremony originated in China in an attempt to keep Buddhist monks from falling asleep during their prayer chants? Answer: Though most do not realize it, the age-old Japanese tea ceremony-sado-evolved in this way. You may now be asking, \Well how does this bit of trivia relate to life at Union?\ The answer, in this case, is that last week in Milano Lounge a small group of Union students and faculty members gathered as guests of Maggie Boitano as she performed a traditional Japanese tea ceremony. another, and til us related some of her III()Vements in the ceremony to tbis philosophy. Thefivesensesare important in that the sounds, motions, aroma and taste of the tea all hold special significance. After ex::plaining the background of Sado, Maggie performed :the entire tea ceremony for Professors Patrik and Thurstoll. 'The room was silent as the g11ests followed her humble motims of preparation. Most of the guests seemed comfortable .tn the late af- ternoon sunligllt since the entire atmosphere acted to provide a relaxed, r-eflective en- viroillfient. The remainder of the guests were then served tea and afterwards, the group shared their impressions of the ceremony. For me, the afternoon was a step back into the culture in which I had spent many delicious hours. It brought back sights, sounds, scents and ac- tions I had grown so ac- customedto in a sort of peaceful deja vu. Perhaps the easiest way to describe these feelings is to say just how reluctant I was to step outside the door, put on my shoes and venture out into · the cold. It was a long walk home that night. Philosophy Forum: ' ~randy Is Back! By FREDERIC{{ FORMAV · has returned, courtesy of and . Sludge, \the bre~ast food that SHAD:W:ELL MAC FLECKNOE makes you wish it were lW1- chtimeo'' Yes., Brandy the canine wonder is back in print, .after a peri()d of censorship invoked by Revetend Jerry Falwell, the Meese Co)Dillission, and over 60 percent of the residents of Youngstown, Ohio. Also in- strumental in tbe action taken against tlle Wonderdog was the banding together of campus secut\ity and administration at an . t>bscure college in Sch:enectady, N.Y. However after a restful seclusion, Brandy the Wonderdog has re- emerged, ill the very place where he is most vehemently opposed, most somberly feared, and mQst direly needed. Yes, Brandy is back, in his eternal quest. to say the thing which might be, but in all probability, isn't. Great speculations are to be uncovered, great follies un- folded, great confusion instilled, wee:k;ly with a premium on joUI'ilalistic infidelity. But above all, is Brandy's dogged J)Ursttit of peace, justice and the American Buzz; Brandy's powers, acquired jn a fre~ philosophy lab accident, trans.formed mild mannered JQhn Rclffbrau of the Tri-state area, Into what has grown to become the living legend of: Bramdythe Wonderdog Yes, Brandy, viewer of· all things, seer of all destinies, and admir-er of fine female forms The Continuhlg Adventures of Brandy the Wonderdog It's a brigb,t fine day! The kind of <;lay you spend lying .in a hammock, swinging slowly from side to side.· The only sound$ heard are those of nature, a bubbling brook, rustl'ing grass, coconuts dropping off palm trees, and the occasional ''phsst\ of a beer can being opened. Abh yes tis a beautifulday in Boca Raton ... in the dreams of Brandy The Wonderdog (DUng DlUlt Daa! ! ). The sound of beer trucks delivering on an earlY Saturday morning, stirs Brandy from his rest, and yes it's true, Brandy is freezing his .dog biscuits off. A junior, Maggie .studied the art of Sado this fall while on a term abro~d in Osaka, Japan. Since the philosophy of Zen reflects every aspect of the experience, she arranged Milano Lounge to reflect a Japanese-style atmosphere. Guests removed their shoes before entering the room, where soft Japanese music mixed with a hint of incense in the air. A sheet of delicate paper was set on a side table to allow those present to sign their name in black ink with a calligraphy brush. Maggie appeared as the perfect Japanese .hostess, dressed in a colorful kimono. • 'The Certainty of Cogito'' Brandy is home again, home in Scheneetady restless and cold, with a thirst for ad- venture ... and imported beers~ For now Brandy settles for a breakfast obtained by less than honorable means, and walks it off in the morning sun. 'l,'his morning Brandy's first task is to delineate his territory, with thetraditional one legged salute to passers by. His customary route takes Brandy past many of the campus buildings which he keeps under wa.tchful eye, lest anything go afoul. On this day the performance of his vigil takes hJm past the ~welling place of the normally austere, and piously comtemplative president of this fine institution (who -happens to look great in a speedo). However, upon passing in close ·proximity to the presidential : g~t\iige; ~Brandy's . exceptional hearing, perceives incessant cackling and mut- tering from withih. Imbued with the responsibility inherent in being a Wonderdog, Brandy proceeds to investigate. Upon entering the garage through an open side door, Brandy is momentarily stunned by the awesome display before him. Just inches from his cold wet doggy nose is a mint condition 1987 Ferrari Testarossa, by the rear fender Brandy spies a sinister looking figure dressed in the manner of his former acquaintance Don Johnson. The sounds Brandy hears are of this man, nay ... party beast, who continually repeats in maniacal strains \1300 dollar tuition increase {Cackle,, Cackle) - more next year - (Cackle, Wheeze), AND I CAN STILL SHOW A BUDGET SURPLUS (Chortle, Wheeze, Cackle) Ha The guests settled in a semicircle on the carpeted floor as Maggie explained a bit about the ceremony's history and symbolism. It seems the caf- feine in the green tea acted as a stimulant to keep monks awake · as they prayed. Sado grew out of this as these Buddhists sought to bring symbolism to their everyday actions. She pointed out that in Zen, every action serves to balance Resident Advisors Needed Summer 1987 \The College Experience'' Applications are how being accepted for Resident Ad· visors in Union's summer program for high school juniors and seniors, \The College Experience,\ June 21- July 31. Salary includes room, board, tuition waiver for one course, and stipend. Ap- plications are due February 27. For further formation contact: Graduate Studies Wells House X6674 in- By KA VEBSHEIBANI Note: the f()ll()wing article is based on a report by John D. Glenn, entitled \Merleau-Ponty and the Cogitc»\ in Philosophy Today (Winter 1979). In the early twentieth cen- tury, a branch. of philosophers called phenomenologists at- tempted to find an 1U1disputable fact upon which philosophy could be built. The process by which they attempted to find this truth was to observe the world with a total suspension of all preconceived notions--to doubt the certainty of everything in the world. The result of this process led to the Cartesian cogito-\1 think.\ The only thing that I can be certain about is that I think. One of the phenomenologists who has challen.ged the traditional (Cartesian) significance of the expression \cogito is the Rench philosopher, Merleau-Ponty. The original message of cogito. was that since the only cer- tainty is that ''I think,\ the thinking Self gains ontological priority over the object of thought which is significant only in relationship to it. Merleau-Ponty challenges this interpretation using perception as an example. He needs to demonstrate two points: the object of perception has as much certainty as the act of In celebration of Founders' Day, 1987, there will be a special Minerva Hour with Stephen Jay Gould, professor of geology at Harvard University .. Born in New York City, he is a· graduate of Antioch College and has a Ph.D from Columbia University. He joinedthe Harvard faculty in 1967 and has remained an ardent humanist. He has written several books on evolution and biological determinism which include The Pamda's Thumb, which won the American Book Award in science in 1981, and The Mismeasure of Man, which won the Nati()nal Book Critics Circle Award. Gould also writes a monthly column in Natural History magazine entitled \This View of Life.\ perception itself, and that the Self is not ontologically prior to the objects of his-her thoughts. He begins his first objection to the Cartesian understanding of cogito by claiming that if I see sometiling, I cannot assert with certaintythat \I see\ if! cannot ascertain that what I see eXists. What I see, \appearance\ must find its origin in the object of my vision. \reality.\ In other words, things dQ not enter my . mind ott .()£ nothing; they have an object that is present, or they ~re \roQted in the prior life of the subject (me),\ as John D. Glenn writes in his report, \Merleau-Ponty and the Cogito.\ The previoll$ statement leads to Merleau-Ponty's assertion that existence is intentional. The intentionality of existence means th.at existence is always directed t()wards something in the fut11re. This something as a whole can be called the world. Theref()re 7 I can only un- derstaad my existence by wt- derstanding my relationship towards the world. The subject and the object cannot be clearly separated .from each other. Glenn, eltplaining Merleau- Ponty's ·stance on this statement writes, \I am neither a thing mconscious to itself, nor a mind transparent to itself at the level of e~plicit knowledge, but am at least indistinctly present to my self in my very directness toward the world.\ Our existence in the world is detet·minec:l and understood therefore by the possibilities that exist in the world for us. · These possibilities become out potentilllity-for-being from the moment :we are born, and therefore, we cannot on· tologically .separate the Self .from the World (which contains its possibilities), nor can we doubt tile eertainty ofthe World since ollr existence is rooted within lt. Ha Ha Ha Bahahahahahahahahahah! '' If Russian invasion doesn't change Amerikan life as we · know it, if the dollar is not devalued compared to a mixed bag of Hungarian currencies, and if Oral Roberts doesn't bring apocalypse to cablevision viewers everywhere, Brandy Will return next week with his continuing adventure stories 'for children and young adults everywb,ere. College Bowl Tournament come And Watch The . reams Compete Tues., Feb. 24 8-10 O.ld Chapel Dining Room thurs., Feb. 26 8-9:30 Hum. 019 Play (>fts Tues,, March 3 8-9:30 Old Chapel D.ining R.oom . ..

. .. CONCORDJENSJS, February 19, 1987 Page7 FEATURES Syracuse Prof. Discusses Sexuality l.ntegrafing Religious Traditions W'ith Contem.porary Ethical Issues An Interfaith Dialogue sPoNsa,Rs.: . By ALEX STEPHENS Does the perfect mate exist for everyone? How beneficial was the sexual revolution to our society if the divorce rate has tripled since 1960? Although there are variety .of possible responses to these questions there is probably no Sound cartharsis available to us at the present. However, one par.;. tictilar man has focused much of his attention on this subject and voiced his findings in Social. Sciences 116 on Friday, February 13. Professor John Townsend earned a B.A. and Ph.D. from the University of California in psychology and antmopology and is now a professor of the latter . at Syracuse University. His dissertation work led to his first bQok, \Cultural :Perception of Mental lllness,',. and he h~ recently published a book through the . Syracuse press entitled ''Dating, Mating and Rating.\ The title of his lecture was \Sex Differences in Sexuality\ and ran about fifty minutes in length and then spilled intothe second' hour with . a question and answer period that developed into a strongly sided del>ate. Townsend spoke frankly with an occasional use of the ver- nacular as well as humor. But the main thrust of his lecture, besides ·the reading of other noted specialists' work, wa pimarily received as in- formation already known. Sex Tlie faculty .of the Psycholegy ·Department _applauds Psi Chi (Psychology Honor Society) and the Psychology Club fer the success of the first annual Psychology Career Day. Students arranged for speakers; took charge of the guest ~nquet, publicized events, transported f.urnlture and equipment, and arranged for · guest transportation. In short, the memb.ers of these organizations, under the en- . thusiastic and able leadership of Dawn Chupay and Dan Gordon, planned and executed the entire eient. Approximately 30 speakers from industry, graduate and professional schools took .part and over 1 00 students benefitted from the various presentations. Again, congratulations to the leaders and co-workers for their initiative, skill and effort on behalf of Psychology Career Day. Guest Panersts· camp~~ Protestant.~inistry I • Cat.hOI!C Campus.MmtStry differences, he said, are ''.pervasive''. and differ psychologically as well as anatomically. He fw;tpet1ed his focus into what each sex \prefers.'' '''Men,\ said Townsend, \are more easily aroused, especially by outside stimulus\ . and ''women are more dependent on the emotional side.'' He backe~this statement ~P with· a survey done in the San Francisco Bay area of homosexual men and women. The study foWld that 29 percent of the homosexual men had had over 1,000 partners, whereas 10 .percent ·of the homosexual women only sought fewer than ten partners. Heterosexual activity, be said, will therefore have a com· promise of these differences. \When men are dealing with men, .tJ:tey can have 1;000 part· ners because they are dealing with men,\ he added. stemming from an interview study he constr.ucted of thirty female pre-med students. Some of the subjects he spoke with were weight-lifters, basketball players (\better than .me,\ he admitted) and when .growing up associated with their fathers rather than their mothers; As a result of this study he found that people within this vocation, which, he said, still offered the highest and quickest r:eturn, were subject to a reversal in desirable partners. The mean, once they become doctors, are suddenly \swamped\ with women even though they may in fact be ''geeks.\ The women, on the Qther hand, do not wish to marry or sleep down so they now have a liJnited number of partners. As a result of their success the women in the study found themselves unable to get involved in any sort of casual romance and demanded, although subconsciously, a lasting relationship. Tuesday, February 24, 1987 Fox Lounge 7:30P.M. Jewish Student Union Religious Programs OfficE: Ad·Hoc Faculty Committee on Jew·ish·Christian Dialogue · Rabbi Bev.erly Magidson (Congregation Beth S.halom, Con· servative) Clifton Park Father Dominic Jngemie (St. Anthon,y's Roman Catholic Church), Schenectady Reverend Albert Smith (First Reformed Church) Schelilectady Trade Winds Blow to the Pacific Throughout the lecture he alluded to sexual occurrences that may in fact be anything but elusive. Women, he said, are more likely to involve in foreplay and they will get their way because they can refllSe intercourse. Although they also , tend to enjoy afterplay they often fail to achieve this since they no longer have anytbing to bargain with. He also stated that men merely adjust to the woman's want of monogamy and must suppress their desire for more partners. · Townsend then went . into a deliberation of several theories Townsend's research and theoretical fo.undation only confirmed the ever present problems with sexuality and many of the people attending, including several students, spoke of inSufficient answers. Perhaps, said one student, there are no real answers to the subject. Certainly Dr. Ruth or ~· !Aulders are hard pressed for supplying any concrete evidence, but the question of whether the solution lies in socialization or biology is still being debated. ByOWENMUDGE Last Thursday, ;February 12, Professors . Joseph Finkelstein and Donald Thurston, both members of Union's History department, presented an M.B~A. ColloqUium based on the Shift and effects of the world's economic center of gravity from the \Atlantic . Rim\ (consisting primarily of the United States, Canada, and Western Europe) to the \Pacific Rim\ (comprised mainly of the U.S.A., Canada, 'East Asia, South East Asia, and Australia) . Professor Thurston, who recently returned from spen· ding fall term in China, began the talk by giving an overview of reeent economic occurrences in the Asian world. Over the last decade, for instance, the so- called Newly Industrialized Countries (N.I.C.) such as South Korea and Taiwan, have experienced an average economic growth of 8.2 percent. Along with the striking growth of these economies, there has Diner of The Week ByLEELACQOWDHURY and CAROL HAAS We walked into Ruby's Diner and proclaimed: \We are here to review.'\ All of a sudden there was a frenzy of cleaning activity-rags and mops all a flutter, dishes and griddles flying, not a speck of grease ignored. \No no! Not for the Board of Health ... \ (all went quiet), Then the waitress ex- elaimed, \Hey! Aren 1 t you two broads Leela and Carol' duh dinah reviewahs?\ We blushed. Modestly, we replied, \Of course, you wench!\ and out came the matre' d, ( ihe :same waitress). We sat at a .char- treuse colored booth with a window that had peach curtains and a view of Wallace Anner. If you looked really hard on you could see G.E. down the street. We perused the menus. and realized that this was a restaurant for peQple without teeth. Here is a sampling: bananas with sour cream (honest, this is not a lie). peach omelette (named aftEr the curtains), large order of baked beans (for you traditionalists}, peanut butter and jelly (just like Mom used to make), get this-peanut butter and bacon (Ruby's own nouvelle cuisine a Ia Sch~nectady), and pasteurized p.rt>cessed American cheese sandwich (it really did say that on the menu). Leela ordered a cheeseburger on an onion roll; Carol ordered a grilled cheese sandwich on whole wheat;. and we split an order of french fries. Our choices were based on what didn't require using eating utensils. Leela was lucky: she even got a paper plate. Overall, the grease to edible food ratio was quite high-what was left after blot off was not much. We must say, however, tbe fries were much better than those · from Price Chopper. We could cuss out the regulars; indeed there were many. As they walked in we were ~ble to, match their faces to the Polaroid snaps hanging on the wall. It was kind of like Bingo. Incidentally, Ruby turned out to be a cute little old man with bifocals who was reading the · Schenectady Gazette. He was proud of the histodcal sjgnificance and rich tradition of Ruby's: it dates back fifty years. It was also the recipient of the Golden Diner award in 1946. For those of you who like your diners shiny on the outside but grubby on the inside Ruby's is your place. We might have had a better impression had we ordered the potato salad-sorry Charles. Climb high, climb far, your aim the sky, your goal the stars. The Department of English invites th£t submission of entries in the following writing com- petitions. The deadlinettor submissions is Monday, March 30; 1987 (first day of spring term.) l. The Alien Ess~y Prize: awarded to a senior in .any department for a non-fiction essay. The writing may be a chapter from a thesis, a revised term paper, ali essay written specifically for submission, etc. No litnits of length are specified, but custom suggests a lower limit of 6-Spages, and an upper limit of pe:rhaps 30. 2. Academy of American Poets Prize: an annual award, sponsored by the Academy, for the best poem by a Union undergraduate. 3. The Shocket Prize in Creative Writing: for excellence In poetry, fiction, or inform a I (i.e., non- academicj essay .. All students of any class are eligible. 4. The Van Orcle,. Priz:e: fer freshmen (in any department) excelling in \English composition. 5. The Yudis Pri:z:~: for the student in any class who has produced the best piece of prose fiction. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ DIRECTIONS FOR SUBMITTING ENTRIES 1. Label the entry with a pseudonym on both the paper and an attached, sealed envelope. lm~ide the envelope place your real name and campus address. 2. Place submisslbn.a,nd sealed envelope in a large manila envelope, marked with the name of the prize for Which it is submitted. 3; Deliver the manila envelope to the Department of English office in Humanities 212, no later than Monday, March30, 1~87. (This is the first day of Spring Term.) 4, QUESTIONS? See Professor Nelson In the Humanities B.uilding, or phone 6207. come increasing quantities of trade not only with countries outside the region, but especially among · the Asian nations themselves. Professor Thurston also spoke briefly about the special trade relationship between Japan and the United States. He expressed concern over the possibility of future trade in- balances involving N.I.C. 's., and the need for multilateral cooperation between the economically interdependent Asian eountries in order to prevent economic issues from becomirlg politically . sensitive problems. · Finally, Professor Thurston asserted five observations based on the recent economrlc success of countries in Asia.First, the rate of productivity has increased very rapidly in those countries. Second. the Japanese are delving ml)re and more into service industries, a move which will make U.S. penetration especially difficlllt. Third, when first breaking into an industry, these countries aim to secllN! a large market share (a long-run goal) rather than simply acquiring short tenn profits. Fqurtb, the existence of unusual1y close worker- management ties. Fifth, an extremely high rate of savings. Professor Finkelstein followed with a brief discussion of his fall term abroad in Ja:pan where he was able to visit several factories wuch as the famed Toyota plant, a Yamaha facility, and a Suntory distillery. Professor Finkelstein noted that while touring these facilities, he saw an bnpressive combination of first-rate equipment, personal pride .()n the part.of the worker, and less overall on-the-job tension than prevails in the West. Despit~ all the positive elements that Japan has in its favor, Professor Finkelstein pointed out several weaknesses that could prove damaging to Japan's economy in the future. These weak points included a rapidly aging .population, po()r infrastruc:ture, cultural erosion, and a change in value because of extensive contact with the Western world. Professor Finkelstein said that as the Japanese become more westerniZed, they desire more amenities like central heating, larger homes, and more leisure time. Acccrding to Professor Finkelstein, these desires havt> helped tCJ produce the new \Japanese Yuppie.\ Professor Thurston, ending the disciiSSion, laid out some changes m China that he has seen occur since his trip there in 1975. He stressed, for example, the tremendous rise in tlte availability of conswner goods as well as booming con- struction. Be also expressed his hope that experiments with economic market mech!lllisrns would continue, and that \open door\ contact ·With the West would persist. The next M.B.A. ColloquiUm will take place on February 2&, at 3:45 p.m. in Bailey Hall, room 312.

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 19, 1987 O!tJmrbirnsis Fo~d al (Inion Co/leg~ 1877 --\------ ---- __ ,. Obstructio·n of Justice UnfJrtunately, for the second time during this academic year, one of Union's fraternities has been dismissed from its present living quarters. Sigma Phi, which was founded. at Union in 1827, has been susP.e~ded from living in its house for t~e 1987-88year. Additionally, the College has reqwred that tbe fraternity's president resign and that he reside off- campus for the rest of his time at Union. The fraternity has also been put on social probation through the end of next year. ~~ncor~iensis be~ieves that . ~e Colle~e . ~d­ mimstration has unJuStly taken thi~ matter u;tto 1ts own hands and has convicted an entire fratermty for. the illegal actions of a minority of its members. Had this matter been turned over to the police, their capacity to investigate matters mor~ fUlly t~n the · College, would have revealed that this ''mmority\ of students would have been guilty of a major infraction. They could have been prosecuted in a manner that seems to suggest more far-reaching implications for those members. Instead, the administration has made a tradeoff. In keeping the police out of the matter, they have essentially protected those members directly in- volved from the logical inevitability of conviction under the law; however another motive may have been to keep major media attention away from the issue. By doing this, they have effectively damaged the experiences of those members of the fraternity that may have known about the infraction, but were not directly involved. Moreover, the fraternity's pledges will also be affected by this measure. The College should not nave barred the police from fully prosecuting those members involved, . however this should net have been an issue involving the entire fraternity. Again, . althou~h some of the members could have known that the tllegal substance was being grown in their own basement and may have been opposed to this, it is also possible that they were helpless in voicing their obJections by older, more established members of the fraternity. It is difficult for one to preach to his/her peers and have control over them, and therefore we cannot be punished for their actions. It is also our feeling that the Sigma Phi fraternity will make a public statement on the matter which may clarify things for the administration and ask them to reconsider their decisions. Accomplishments of The New Gym The opening of the Alumni Gym has been one of the most exciting events at Union in recent memory. Walking through the building during its opening ceremonies one could not help feeling a sense ofpride, accomplishment, and relief. The new facilities are quite rmpressive, giving the comple:x: an aura of confidence. Already it has become an important center of activity on campus, filling part of the gap which was created by the loss of both our campus center and our old gym. A popular question that echoes across the campus is ''Have you ooen to the Gym?\ and yes, most of us have been. In fact in just its first few days it has become so popular it is e~en difficult-~() fP.ld. an 9pen court or Nautilus machine to work on. Credit sl:iowd given to the .constrU;ction compa. ny, Sweet Associate~, for completing the JOb sev. eral months ahead. of their deadline. This enabled the swim team to enjoy the final days of their season in their own J?OOl, after a long period of traveling to RPI for practice sessions .. They too should be commended for their dedication to their sport despite rather difficult circumstances. The athletics and intramural departments were also placed in difficult situations due ~ their t~mporary rusplacement. Both were lodged m the Fieldhouse during this 18 month period. Already, the Intramural department has been rejuvenated and will be able to make a lot more out of our recreational time. The general student body was perhaps the most affected by the constructio~ an~ we rnust be .giv~n a round of applause for making 1t through .~s tlfi.le· Most of all, we must thank the College Admimstr~tlon fo.· r the. job they have done with tbiR .project a!ld for seeing 1t through to the end. Now, everyone: EnJoy! . ~----· LETTERS Assemblyman Should Help.Pres~rve -E~vironment To the Editor: I took a speci~ interest in last week's \From the Albany Desk\ since Mr. Robert D' Andrea.ismy New York State Assemblyman in the 108th district. It was interesting to read about Mr. D'Andrea's bill to make radar detectors illegal and the difficulties he is en- countering. I was surprised that Paul SChop did not deal with the environment with Assem .. blyman D'Andrea. D'Andrea comes from a district that has the inf~oll8 Moreau's Caputo Dump Site which is heavily laden with PCB's, and other sites containing PCB's·the drag strip on Route 9 In Moreau, the Hudson River, etc, Nearly all the landfills in Saratoga County have to be Closed down and the County is in the process now to build a garbage burnillg .plant. · With these pertinent eq! vironmental issues facing this assembly district, why ·is he wasting time on a \fuzz buster\ · bill.? · D'Andrea should be concentrating much of his time on bills that would help alleviate · these environmental problems. The Environmental Bond Issue that was on the New York State ballot would create funds to help the· clean-up of toxic waste sites and to help m other en- viromnentai projects like the closing down of landfills and garbage buting plants. .. Did Assemblyman D'Andrea support this: D'Andrea woUld not support the Environmental Bond Issue· because he .believed most of the money would go downstate. . Not only did D'Andrea believe thi~, but the chairman of tbe Saratoga County Boar~of Supervisors belived in this and told people to vote \No.\ I disagreed because the C-aputo Dump Site is one of the hottest toXic sites nation~ wide and there would definitely be funds for that clean::up. Also, are not some funds better than none? · · His lack of support did not surprise me. There· is a state law which makes· some land· in Northern Saratoga County a ''forever wild'' forest. Mr. D'Andrea, a few years ago, supported a bill to repeal this state law. Why repeal this law? To make it ihto a landfill was the answer. Tbis infuriated. the residents that lived near there. I live only a few miles from this forest and it is filled with rows of trees, a trout stream trickles through, and. 'it ~ a haven for · n111Jlerous forest animals. The taxpayers paid for the·.planting and upkeep of this for~. :Mr. D'Andrea wanted to level this fo~est,. PQllute the stream, and drive out the forest. animals to make it into a landfill tlwough. a bill ;in the Assembly he spon· sored. LuckDy, the residents killed his bill With a .public. hearing .in. a .nearby churCh ·Where Stanley Fink~ ASsembly Speaker at the time, Ustened to the outcries 9f the residents. But even after the public hearing, D~Andrea tried to push his bill via tying up the legislative session of the .Assembly. Becaus(;! of angered .Assemblymen i,n both parties; he stopped his fight. , I. would hope tbat As$em· blyman D' .Andrea continues speeding on tbeNQrthway as an issue. This includes more than the fuzzbll$ter bill but harsher punishment for speeding, · especially in light, of _state Trooper Hudson's death. However, his e.n:vironmental record is· lacking. lt should be one of his main focuses since it iS a predominant focus of his district. Keith 0. Bemis '90 Curriculum Committee Solicits Suggestion~ To the Student Body: As most of you know, the referendum authorizing for .. mation of a committee to produce alternatives · to the AAC-approved general education curriculum proposal was passed by the facUlty by a large margin. (After a recount, the result initially reported has been corrected: 83 for, 60 against. The figures in last week's Concordiensis. are not correct.) Professor Bick then nominated Professor Hilary Tann (Arts), Professor Bradley Lewis (Economics), Professor David Peak (Physics), and Professor Philip Snow (Civil ·Engineering) as represen .. tatives of the divisions, with Professor Frank Gado as chairman and myself as the student representative: The Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of . ~Concordiensis All letters to tle Editor · must be typed double- spaced c.nd submitted by 4 · p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more . · than four people and all writers should provide ·. their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the le.tter.. Names nor· malty will not be withheld. • Concordiensis reserves the . right to reiect leHers that are libelous or do .not conform to standard of -~~~taste. AAC formaUy issued the ap- pointments and gave the committee its charge (\Try to do what you said you would try to do and report back to us.\) In our first meeting this .past Friday, we recognized the importance of providing means for . faculty and students to express their views. However, due to time limitations (we must complete our work by the siXth week of spring term), we do not feel that it would be practical . to conduct open meetings. Instead, we invite each of you to submit a sum- mary of your thoughts on Union undergraduate education in writing. We do not expect to receive hundreds of detailed general education programs (although any scheme would be given consideration). Rather. we would like you to weigh Union's stated objectives and evaluate the means by which we intend to achieve them. Put simply: What has contributed to your general education at Union College? And what basic elements of education were left untouched by the. present system.? How might the~e have been provitled? ~Y: ideas will be appreciated. Please address communications to Curricular Alternatives Committee {C.AC) c-o Professor Gado; Humanitie~ or to myself(Box634). We thank you for your in- terest and look forward to some spicy reading. Ag1=1in due to time conSiderations, we ask that you write as soon as possible, not later than March 6. Sincerely, Cindy Curtis, '87

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 19, 1987 dtsnrnrbtrnsis FounJ,d al ( /,uon Collf!(#r 187-:' ------ ----- Obstruction of Justice Unbrtunately, for the second time during this academic year, one of Union's fraternities has been dismissed from its present livtng quarters. Sigma Phi, which was- founded at Union in 1827, has been suspended from living in its house for the 1987-88 year. Additionally, the College has required that the fraternity's president resign and that he reside off- campus for the rest of his time at Union. The fraternity has also been put on social probation through the end of next year. Concordiensis believes that the College ad- ministrRtion has unjustly taken this matter into its own hands and has conviCted an entire fraternity for the illegal actions of a minority of its members. Had this matter been turned over to the police, their capacity to investigate matters mor.e fully th~n the College, would have revealed that this ''mmor1ty\ of students would have been guilty of a major infraction. They could have been prosecuted in a manner that seems to suggest more far-reaching implications for those members. Instead, the administration has made a tradeoff. In keeping the police out of the matter, they have essentially protected those members directly in- volved from the logical inevitability of conviction under the law; however another motive may have been to keep major media attention away from the issue. By doing this, they have effectively damaged the experiences of those members of the fraternity that may have known about the infraction, but were not directly involved. Moreover, the fraternity's pledges will also be affected by this measure. The College should not have barred the police from fully prosecuting those members involved, however this should not have been an issue involving the entire fraternity. Again, althou~h some of the members could have known that the Illegal substance was being grown in their own basement and may have been opposed to this, it is also possible that they were helpless in voicing their objections by older, more established members of the fraternity. It is difficult for one to preach to his/her peers and have control over them, and therefore we cannot be punished for their actions. It is also our feeling that the Sigma Phi fraternity will make a public statement on the matter which may clarify things for the administration and ask them to reconsider their decisions. Accomplishments of The New Gym The opening of the Ahunni Gym has been one of the most exciting events at Union in recent memory. Walking through the building during its opening ceremonies one could not help feeling a sense of pride, accomplishment, and relief. The new facilities are quite Impressive, giving the complex an aura of confidence. Already it has become an important center of activity on campus, filling part of the gap which was created by the loss of both our campus center and our old gym. A popular question that echoes across the campus is \'Have you been to the Gym?\ and yes, most of us have been. In fact in just its first few days it has become so popular it is ey_en difficult to find. an ~pen court or Nautilus machine to work on. Credit sliollld given to the construction company, Sweet Associates, for completing the job several months ahead of their deadline. This enabled the swim team to enjoy the final days of their season in their own pool, after a long period of traveling to RPI for practice sessions. They too should be conunended for their dedication to their sport despite rather difficult circumstances. The athletics and intramural departments were also placed in difficult situations due to their temporary displacement. Both were lodged in the Fieldhouse during this 18 month period. Already, the Intramural department has been rejuvenated and will be able to make a lot more out of our recreational time. The general student body was perhaps the most affected by the construction and we must be given a round of applause for making it through this time. Most of all, we must thank the Colle~e Administration for the job they have done with this project a!ld for seeing it through to the end. Now, everyone: EnJoy! LETTERS Assemblyman Should Help Preserve EnYironment To the Editor: I took a special interest in last week's ''From the Albany Desk''' since Mr. Robert D'Andrea is my New York State .Assemblyman in the 108th district. It was interesting .to read about Mr. D'Andrea's bill to make radar detectors illegal and the difficulties he is en- countel\ing. I was surprised that Paul Schop did not deal with the environment with Assem- blyman D'Andrea. D'Andrea comes from a district that has the infamous Moreau's Caputo Dump Site which is heavily laden with PCB's, and other sites containing PCB's-the drag strip on Route 9 in Moreau, the Hudson River, etc. Nearly aU the landfills in Saratoga County have to be dosed down and the County is in the process now to build a garbage burning plant. With these pertinent en- vironmental issues facing this assembly district, why is he wasting time on a \fuzzbuster\ bill? D'Andrea should be concentrating much of his time on bills that would help alleviate these environmental problems. The Environmental Bond Issue that was on the New York State ballot would create funds to help the clean-up of toxic waste sites and to help in other en- vironmental projects like the closing down of landfills and garbage buring plants. Did Assemblyman 0' Andrea support this: D'Andrea would not support the Environmental Bond Issue because he believed most of the money would go downstate. Not only did D'Andrea believe this, but the chairman of the Saratoga CoWity Board\-ef Supervisors belived in this and told people to vote \No.\ I disagreed because the Caputo Dump Site is one of the hottest toxic sites nation- wide and there would definitely be funds for that clean-up. Also, are not some funds better than none? His lack of support did not surprise me. There is a state law which makes some land in Northern Saratoga County a \forever wild\ forest. Mr. D'Andrea, a few years ago, supported a bill to repeal this state law. Why repeal this law? To make it into a landfill was the answer. This infuriated the residents that lived near there. I live only a few miles from this forest and it is filled with rows of trees, a trout stream trickles through, and it is a haven for nwnerous forest animals. The taxpayers paid for the planting and upkeep of this forest. :Mr. D'Andrea wanted to level this forest,. pollute the stream, and drive out the forest animals to make it into a landfill through a bill in the Assembly he spon- sored. Luckily, the residents killed his bill with a public hearing in a nearby church where Stanley Fink, Assembly Speaker at the time, listened to the outcries of the residents. But even after the public hearing, D'Andrea tried to push his bill via tying up the legislative session of the A:ssembly. Because of angered A:ssemblymen in both parties, he stopped his fight. I would hope that Assem- blyman D'Andrea continues speeding on the Northway as an issue. This includes more than the fuzzbuster bill but harsher punishment for speeding, especially in light of .State Trooper Hudson's death. However, his environmental record is lacking. It should be one of his main focuses since it is a predominant focus of his district. Keith 0. Bemis '90 Curriculum Committee Solicits Suggestions To the Student Body: As most of you know, the referendum authorizing for- mation of a committee to produce alternatives to the AAC-approved general education curriculum proposal was passed by the faculty by a large margin. (After a recount, the result initially reported has been corrected: 83 for, 60 against. The figures in last week's Concordiensis are not correct.) Professor Bick then nominated Professor Hilary Tann (Arts), Professor Bradley Lewis (Economics), Professor David Peak (Physics), and Professor Philip Snow (Civil Engineering) as represen- tatives of the divisions, with Professor Frank Gado as chairman and myself as the student representative. The Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do nof necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of .,Ccncordiensis All letters to tl\e Editor must be typed double- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more 1han four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names nor- mallr will not be withheld. Coneordiensis reserves the right to reiect leHers that are libelous or do not conform to standard of _tOO~ taste. AAC formally issued the ap- pointments and gave the committee its charge (\Try to do what you said you would try to do and report back to us.\) In our first meeting this past Friday, we recognized the importance of providing means for faculty and students to express their views. However, due to time limitations (we must complete our work by the sixth week of spring term), we do not feel that it would be practical to conduct open meetings. Instead, we invite each of you to submit a sum· mary of your thoughts on Union undergraduate education in writing. We do not expect to receive hundreds of detailed general education programs (although any scheme would be given consideration). Rather. we would like you to weigh Union's stated objectives and evaluate the means by which we intend to achieve them. Put simply: What has contributed to your general education at Union College? And what basic elements of education were left untouched by the present system'! How might these have been provided? Any ideas will be appreciated. Please address commW1ications to Curricular Alternatives Committee (CAC) c-o Professor Gado, Humanities ortomyself (Box634). We thank you for your in- terest and look forward to some spicy reading. Again due to time considerations, we ask that you write as soon as possible, not later than March 6. Sincerely, Cindy Curtis, '87 tlirnsis. Editors-in Chief News Editors Features Editor Commentary Page Editors Arts Editors Associate Arts Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editor Assoc. Sports Editor Science Editors Advertising Editors Jay Grossman. Lee Ann Schmidt David Gulliver, Christine Hong Margaret Boitano, Alex Stephens Wendy Zimmerman Greg Fay, Stuart Sands Nancy Grundman, Julie Steinberg Jan Goldstein Jennifer Ash. Lisa Marzilli Douglas Lloyd ·chris Hinckley John Bergeron, Adam Helfand Jacki J:}eil, Lisa Ordower Assoc. Advertising Editor Business Managers · Photu'Editor CQptEditor ·· Subscription Editors Jessica Adelson Lisa Katz. rfob'Koch Ab;ln Klapper I.MiLeon JolmBergeron, RabertMCGowan . ' c. William Huntley I :· I' l ' i ·' r

\0 10 0 ~ .0 <( E ... Q) 1- 0 u ·~ ~ CONCORDIE'NSIS; Februt~ry 19~ 1987 Page9 .. LETTERS 'r Term in Mexico a: H·ot Ti·m.e . ... ' . .. - . . . . ' We're writing to youfrom A Ch,ange for Gi rllng south of the borded Believe it In a January 29; 1987. editorial Students from the term abroad ·in Mexico take time out from their busy s~hedules to pose. THE FINANCIAl AID ·APPLICATION. ·packet is ·available in the Fincinci1l Aid · Office for liJ87·88. Anyon' planning · on applyiniJ' . for · aid who has not · received an GpplicatioQ packet sllauld · pick one up immediately. Deadline for the FAF is March lst and for the completed applice~tion is April 15th •. · Contact the Rnancial Aid Office for,. more information. or not, there's not three feet of entitled ''A Commercial ~Sue- snow everywhere in the world. cess,,. Concordiensfs. reported In fact, we don't expect much on a potentially lucrative rainhere·until JWle; so wa~ing i • project that would tum the to class isn't exactly a chore, unused Girling Center into a muchless·anightmare. We hear higll technology research New York is· having one of the center. The model for this worst winters ever. Isn't that a shame? Note the pool and palm project w~s RPI's very sue- trees in the bac~ground of the ~ cessfUl George M. Low Center. i 1 . This week, .From the Albany P cture-that'.s our Schoo • ' D.esk will take a closer look at Among other things, Mexico · i$ known for its two-foot beers, the l..ow Center, in order to the sunshine, and Montezuma's determine if RPI's success can R W · . be copied at Union. . eve:Qge. e're indlllgl!lg in an The Low Center is a recent three. We've been dl)ing some traveling to wool markets, addition tQ the RPI campus. · Construction on the center's silver cities, pyramids, and of ' building beg· an in 19M. its course a resort here and there. • The sking here is great-water- history, however, dates back to sking that is! Hey, save us ana 1981, when RPI President · ba George M. Low first came up snow. U! We missyou. with the idea for the center. It Mexjco Term Abroad was Low, who six years ago S d W . began the lobbying effort in tu ents- mter'87 Albany that resU).ted in the The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce the following Colloquium February 1987 The Relevance of ltegel's Social and Political Philosophy Professor Rolf Ahlers Russell Sage College February 27, 1981 3:30P.M. AU Colloquia are held in the Humanities Bldg., Rm 213, Receptions afterwards held in Humanities Lounge. For further information-cal-l Marianne Snowc;len 370-6376 grap.ting of a $30 million interest free loan from New York State. This loan was approved ·by Governor Carey in 1982. The $30 million loan was the only piece of legislation needed to begin the construction of the center~ Under the terms of the loan, RPI has up to 10 years to bring $30 million in equipment into the center. So far, RPI has brought $22 million into the center.· The Low Center is actually composed of three separate centers. These are the Center for Manufacturing and Productivity, the Center for Integvated Electronics, and the Center for Computer Graphics. According to the center's director, Dr. C. W. LeMaistre, the center will employ ap- proximately 300 people within two months. This .figure in- cludes 78 faculty members, 200 graduate students, and 40 technicians. In a recent telephone in- terview, LeMaistre stated that the entire Low Center did $6.2 million worth of research last year. Each center did ap- proximately $2 million worth of research. All of this research was supported by private in- dustry, and most of the par- . tici~ting companies are large Fortune 500 firms such as IBM, Xerox, GE, and GM. LeMaistre also described some new additions to the center. One of these additions is the Decision Sciences and Engineering Systems Group~ which will c9mbine researchers from the engineering, science, and management divisions of RPI, and which will draw in researchers from the social sciences, including political · scientists . The other new addition is a program sponsored by the NYS Cooperative Extension Program: the NYS Science and Technology Foundation. This program is designed to help small locally owned businesses adapt to today's changing technology. This program is also being sponsored by the state in Buffalo, Utica, New York City, and in Ithaca, at Cornell. It is readily apparent that the Low Center has been a great success for RPI. The question now is whether Union . will be - able to imitate the Low Center by developing the Girling Center in a similar fashion. According to LeMaistre's of- fice, no zoning changes were needed to build the .Low Center. It did, however, require state funding in the form of a loan, and it would require lobbying by Schenectady County's legislators to get the legislature to grant a similar loan. At this time, neither Assemblyman James· Tedisco (R-107), who represents the city of Schenectady and Niskayuna, nor Assemblyman Paul Tonko (D·105), who represented the remainder of Schenectady County is working on such legislation. The project described in ''A Commercial Success\ would certainly be a valuable asset to both Union College and the city of Schenectady. Perhaps with a great. deal of proddding by our county's representatives, such a project could become a reality. What's to be of Ron? Student Activities Van i·s now available ( Fifty Mile :Radius) For more :information check in Student Activi-ties Office or call 6129 n illllllll n ••m•muuamun•munsnt:manaunmtnnllt •unnnlunnunmnnamun mtamuu iut•mannmutttu•u What bas a Caucus .. Race, a croquet- match, comfits, and a h11;mming bird?i Alice In Wonderland No.\t Memorial Theatre FebruarJ~ 24-28,. 1987 8:00 p.m. $3.00/Students; $4.00/Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission lllllllllllilllllllllllllUIIIIIIIIIIIIllliiUIIIIIII!IUiililllllllllllllllliiJIIIIIIIIIIIIIII llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll - . . '' \ ByTANVARODZIANKO Presidents. Everyone wants a great president. Every president wants to be great. All are in agreement of the idea that he should be great, but not all are in agreement of .the criteria of greatness. Is it charisma, leadership ana patriotic spirit that delegates power and acts as a figurehead? Or is it a quiet, behind the scenes person who is actively- propagating policy? If Reagan is evaluated by the first set. of criteria, he would undoubtedly be considered a great president. Reagan has exemplified remarkable talent in leadership communicative skills, charisma, and political shrewdness; He succeeded to lead the country in such .a way that has revived national pride,. something it had lacked after Carter's term. One of the first campaign slogans he lJSed was ''Bringin~ America Back.'' That, he did, · Another of Reagan's talents is his abW.ty to delegate power. Not marly presidents are able to have the people under them working together to help him act on issues and the decisions actively -benefit the country. This is probably the reason for his long lasting popularity. When others around you ate concerned with structural detail, it leaves more time to the president for aesthetics, per- fection of the \presidential technique.\ Reagan has taken .advantage of this and ef- fectively learned to both work with Congress and manage the bure~ucracies, which .gives him favorable reviews now. 1 This is now. However, the question still stands. What ·will everyone think of President Reagan when we start feeling the results of his policy proposals? It is, on the ,one hand, good that Reagan delegates his power, but if it is everyone around him who does the research, knows the detail of every fact and only briefs the President on what they have discovered, how does he then · qualify to make a prudent decision? Many times it has been said that the President has \the ~ig picture,\ but doe$D't really understand beyond that. So in foreign policy, it can be said that Reagan is responsible for what happens, but not- necessarily guilty of it. Here at home, Reagan is looked upon rather skeptically. His failure to reduce the deficit and apparent indifference to the rising con- cern towards welfare, have reflected badly on his presidential record. Despite this no future president will ever forget what he has done to improve the presidency itself. So! What is great? It seems to be a toss up between the im- portance of technique and the importance of results. The evaluations of today's political scientists and tomorrow's historians will undoubtedly not match up, since the time span in which the two think are naturally very different. The political scientist is more ''now''oriented, which is why to him Reagan seems to be a good presi~ent. On the level of a historian however, who takes into consideration more than just the recent past and near future, Reagan might get a lower rank. Even if President Reagan does get less than great ratings because of failure in certain policy decisions,, his achievements that .deserved hi:n the great reputation before can't be taken away from him. After aU, even great policy decisions don't stay . great ·forever. Time changes everything.

r CONCORDIENSJS, February 19, 1987 Page9 \0 \' 0 ..... .0 c:( E ..... Q) 1- 0 .~ X Q) ~ >- .0 0 .... 0 .c: c. LETTERS Term in Mexico a Hot Time Students f,ra m the term abroad in Mexico take time outfrom their busy schedules to pose. TH:E FINANCIAL AID APPLICATION packet is available in the Financial Aid Office for 19 8 7 .. 88. Anyone planning on applying for aid wllo has not received an application packet should pick 1ne up immediately. Deadline for the FAF is March 1st and for the completed application is April 15th. Contact the Financial Aid Office for more information. We're writing to you from south of the border! Believe it or not, there's not three feet of snow everywhere in the world. In fact, we don't expect much rain here until June; so walking to class isn't exactly a chore, much less a nightmare. We hear New York is having one of the worst winters ever. Isn't that a shame? Note tile pool and palm trees in the background of the picture-that's our school. Among ()ther things, Mexico is known for its two-foot oeers, the sunshine, and Montezwna's Revenge. We're indulging in all three. We've been doing some traveling to wool markets, silver cities, pyramids, and of course a resort here and there. The sking here is great-water- sking that is! Hey, save us all a snowball! We miss you. Mexico Term Abroad Students-Winter '87 The Union CoHege Philosophy Department is plea sed to announce the following Colloquium February 1987 The Relevance of Hegel's Social and Political Philosophy Professor Rolf Ahlers Russell Sage College February 27, 1987 3:30P.M. All Colloquia are held in the Humanities Bldg., Rm 213. Receptions afterwards held in Humanities Lounge. For furthEr information call Marianr1e Snowden 370·6376 PAUL SCHOP ... From the A:lbany Desk A Change for Girting In a January 29, 1987 editorial entitled ''A Cemmercial Suc- cess,'~ Concordiensis reported on a potentially lucrative · project that would turn the unl:lSed Girling Center into a high technology research center-. The model for this project was RPI's very sue~ cessful George M. Low Center. This week, From the Albany Desk will take a closer look at the Lc:Jw Center, in order to deterll1ine if RPI's success can be copied at Union. The Low Center is a recent addition to the RPI campus. Constl:\u.ction on the center's building began in 1984. Its history, however, dates back to 1981, when RPI President George M. Low first came up with t:he idea for the center. It was Low, who six years ago began the lobbying effort in Alban:y that resulted in the granting of a $30 million interest free loan from New York State. This loan was approved by Govern()r Carey in 1982. The $30 million loan was the only !)ieee of legislation needed to begin the construction of the center. Under the terms of the loan, RPI has up to 10 years to bring $30 million in equipment into tile center. So far, RPI has brought $22 million into the center. The Low Center is actually composed of three separate centers. These are the Center for Manufacturing and Productivity, the Center for Integrated Electronics, and the Center- for Computer Graphics. According to the center's director, Dr. C. W. LeMaistre, the center will employ ap- proximately 300 people within two months. This figure in- cludes 78 faculty members, 200 graduate students, and 40 technicians. In a recent telephone in- terviEw, LeMaistre stated that the entire Low Center did $6.2 million worth of research last year. Each center did ap- proximately $2 million worth of research. All of this research was supported by private in- dustry, and most of the par- ticipating companies are large Fortune 500 firms such as IBM, Xerox, GE, and GM. LeMaistre also descril>ed some new additions to the center. One of these additio11s is the Decision Sciences and Engineering Systems Greup, which will combine researcl!ers from the engineering, science, and management divisions of RPI, and which will draw in researchers from the social sciences, including political scientists. The other new addition is a program sponsored by the NYS Cooperative Extension Program: the NYS Science and Technology Foundation. This program is designed to l!elp small locally owned businesses adapt to today's changing technology. This program is also being sponsored by the state in Buffalo, Utica, New York City, and in Ithaca, at Carnell. It is readily apparent that the Low Center has been a great success for RPI. The question now is whether Union . will be able to imitate the Low Center by developing the Girling Center in a similar fashion. According to LeMaistre's of- fice, no zoning changes were needed to build the Low Center. It did, however, require state funding in the form of a loan, and it would require lobbying by Schenectady County's legislators to get the legislatw·e to grant a similar loan. At this time, neither Assemblyman James Tedisco (R-107), who represents the city of Schenectady and Niskayuna, nor Assemblyman Paul Tonko (D-105), who represented the remainder of Schenectady County is working on such legislation. The project described in \A Commercial Success\ would certainly be a valuable asset to both Unio11 College and the city of Schenectady. Perhaps with a great deal of proddding by our county's representatives, such a project could become a reality. What's to be of Ron? Student Activities Van is now available { Fifty Mile Radius) Fo.r more information check in Student Activities Office or call 61 2 9 . lllllltlllllllllltlllllll a11 t lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll What has a Caucus-Race, a croquet- match, comfits, and a humming bird?? Alice In Wonderland Nott Memorial Theatre February 24-28, 1987 8:00 p.m. $3.(Hl/Students; $4.00/Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!flllllllllllllllllllllll 1111 illlllllllllllllllllllll By TANYA RODZIANKO Presidents. Everyone wants a great president. Every president wants to be great. All are in agreement of the idea that he sh()uld be great, but not all are in agreement of the criteria of greatness. Is it charisma, leadership and patriotic spirit that delegates power and acts as a figurehead? Or is it a quiet, behind the scenes person who is actively propagating policy? If Reagan is evaluated by the first set of criteria, he would undoubtedly be considered a great president. Reagan has exemplified remarkable talent in leadership communicative skills, charisma, and political shrewdness. He succeeded to lead the cDuntry in such a way that has revived national pride, something it had lacked after Carter's term. One of the first campaign slogans he used was \Bringing America Back.\ That, he did. Another <Jf Reagan's talents is his ability to delegate power. Not many presidents are able to have the people under them working together to help him act on issues and the decisions actively benefit the country. This is pmbably the reason for his long lasting popularity. WhEn others around you are concerned with structural detail, it leaves more time to the president for aesthetics, per- fectim of the \presidential technique.\ Reagan has taken advantage of this and ef- fectively learned to both work with Congress and manage the bureBucracies, which gives him favora.ble reviews now. . This is now. However, the question still stands. What will every()ne think of President Reagan when we start feeling the results of his policy proposals'? It is, on the one hand, good that Reagan delegates his power, but if it is every()ne around him who does the research, knows the detail of every- fact and only briefs the PresidEnt on what they have discovEred, how does he then qualify to make a prudent decision.? Many times it has been said that the President has \the big picture,'; but doesn't really understand beyond that. So in foreign policy, it can be said that Reagan is responsible for wllat happens, but not- necessarily guilty of it. Here at homE, Reagan is looked upon rathel\ skeptically. His failure to reduce the deficit and apparent indifference to the rising con- cern towards welfare, have reflected badly on his presidential record. Despite this no future president will ever forget what he has done to improve the presidency itself. So! What is great? It seems to be a toss up between the im- portance of technique and the importance of results. The evaluations of today's political scientists and tomorrow's historians will undoubtedly not match up, since the time span in which the two think are naturally very different. The political scientist is more \now\ oriented, which is why to him Reagan seems to be a good president. On the level of a historian however, who takes into consideration more than just the recent past and near future, Reagan might get a lower rank. Even if President Reagan does get less than great ratings because of failw-e in certain policy decisions, his achievements that deserved h::n the great reputation before can~ be taken away from b.im. After all, even great policy decisions don't stay great forever. Time changes everything.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Febrnary 19, 1987 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $TUDENT INVESTMENT CLUB. . . -I-nternat-ional Rela_tion s Club . . Anyone- Iat~rested In The H-arvard M()del Senate Come Join Us and Make Money! ! Mo-nday, 7:30 p.m. s.s. 105 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Contact Andrew at: 386-4055 UNION COLLEGE PHOTO CLUB- IS SPONSORING A PHOTO CONTEST Are you interested in keeping in touch with your Open to all students, faculty and staff including photoclass students. Separate catagories for color and black & white classmates after · ? Piizes Courtesy of BERNS CAMERA STORE 334 State St. \Alice Eats Mushrooms~' Go See ALICEI February 24-28, 1987 ... 8 p.m. Nou Memorial Theatre $3.00 Students $4.00 Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission JOBS AVAILABLE IN HALE HOUSE t Anyone who is interest~d please contact Susan Neumann (382-1195) or Naomi Mendel at Lamont House The Panhellenic Council wo.-ld like to thank all those who participated in the Cabaret Centest 1o support the Schenectady Rape Crisis Center and congratulate the winners: -Dave Provost & Sean Connell·y -Corey Steinberg &c Robert Mazow -Andrew Gonzalez · -Melanie Blackman, Gail Blumenfeld & Becky Thayer - A special thanks to the Union Jazz Trio: Vice President D'Andrea~ Professor Ross and- Professor Presslaff. Thanks also to: Jason Green, Jim Manly & the Social Comrnittee. · Our Judges:. Laurie Silberg, Lorraine Marra.& Martha Hugg.ins. Our advisor: Jerri Clark (much thanks) · Finally- Thanks to Manhattan Exchange, Proctor's Theatre, The Book Store, The Sweet Tooth & Ben & J.er:ry'S. for donating prizes! EXCITING CAR'EER o·PPORU-NITY .. . . . Sherwood Capital, Inc .. is a major full invest brokerage firm with over 30 offices coast to coast. For individuals interested in a caree.r in the financial. services industry, we -offer an extensiv·e training progra_m. Opportunities for advancement into management are available. - We-will be on Campus: Tuesday; February 24th Contact the Placement Offic.e for Further Information.

Page 10 CONCORDfENSJS, February 19, 1987 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ $TUDENT INVESTMENT CLUB Anyone Interested In The Harvard Model Senate Come Join Us and Make Money! ! Monday, 7:30 p.111. S.S. 105 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Contact Andrew at: 386-4055 UNION COLLEGE PHOTO CLUB IS SPONSORING A PHOTO CONTEST Open to all students, faculty and staff including photoclass students. Separate catagories for color and black & white Prizes Courtesy of BERNS CAMERA STORE \Alice Eats Mushrooms\ Go See ALICE! February 24-28, 1987 - 8 p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre $3.00 Students $4.00 Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission JOBS AVAILABLE IN HALE HOUSE Anyone who is interested please contaci Susan Neumann (382-1195) or Naomi Mendel at Lamont House j llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllill 1he Panhellenic Council would like 1o thcank all those who participated in the Cmbaret Contest to support the Schenectady Rape Crisis Center and COI1!Jrcatulate the winners: -Dave Provost & Sean Connelly -Corey Steinberg & Robert Mar.ow -Andrew Gonzalez -Melanie Blackman, Gail Blumenfeld & Becky Thayer A speciral thanks to the Union Jazz Trio: Vice President D'Andrea, Professor Ross and Professor Presslaff. Tha11lcs also to: Jas<>n Green, Jim Manly & the Social Committee. · Our Judges: Laurie Silberg, Lorraine Marra & Martha Huggins. Our advisor: Jerri Clark (much thanks) Final iy- Thanks to N\anhattan Exchange, Proctor's Theatre, The Book Store, The Sweet Tooth & Ben & Jerry's for donating prizes! EXCITING CAREER OPPORUNITY Sllerwood Capital, Inc. is a major full invest brokerage firm with over 30 offices coast to coast. For individuals interested in a career in the financial services industry, we offer an extensive training program. Opportunities for advancement into management are available. We will be on Campus: Tuesday, February 24th I Contact the Placement Ofiice for Further Information.

CONCORJJIENSIS, Februar)' 19, 1987 Page 11 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Reik'i- Long Term. EffectS of Drugs Reiki: Master Lmda Keiser will be giving Reiki I and II trairiing February 26, 27, 28, and March 1 at the· Spring Street BUildii:lg, 110 Sprirlg Street, Saratoga, N.Y. 12866. · Reiki is a Japanese word representing Universal Life Erier:gy - the· energy that .. is all around us. Reiki is also a system of naturalllealing that aeeesses, and trai~sliiits this energy, · using traditional laying-on...of·han&, to create balance andhaml.ony·within the body. Reiki catalyzesthe body's natural ability to heal itself aQd maintain a balance .()f health. Reiki is an excellent com- plementary mode of healing, deeply relaxing, non-intrusive. Linda I<,eiser lives in the Washington,. D.C. area and teaches Reiki throughout the UnitedStates. She is a graduate · of Mount Holyoke College, Yale University, a founder and member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Consciousness and Music, and The Well-springs. Foundation. She has had extensive training in the healing arts pertinent to the human. potential movement. .For .further infonnation and .registration, please call Penny Jewellat Q87-3723 or 583 .. 1182; or write 5 Spring Steet, Saratoga, N.Y. 12866. By JOHN BERGERON This week we will ,take a look at the long term effe~s of three common drugs, · alcohol, marijuana, and cocaine. The information is taken from an interview wi.th Terry Wahl, M.D. the school physician and doctor at Ellis Hospital. First Aid ln$tructor' s Course Offe.red My first question was what are the· physical long terin, ef- fects of marijuana and cocaine abuse, and how does marijuana .smQking compare to cigarette smoking? Dr. Wahl eXplained fhlit it has been more difficult to trace the effects of marijuana than tobacco because there is a much smaller percentage. of marijuana users than tobacco users. Also, because widespread marijuana did not occur untU the 1960$, it is still too early . to determine any ill effects stiffered by the users. Of the studies that have been . performed, Dr. Wahl stated that they are showing that chronic daily users of marijuana double ortripletheir chances of getting cancer or lung disease. Marijuana is now believed to be more toxic than tobacco and it The Albany Red. Cross is offering an Advanced First Aid Instructor's course for those interested in eac;Jhing first aid. This course has been designed for individuals who .have had some eXperience in the field and who would like to share it with others. The course will be held Tuesday and Thursday evenings-, February 3 thro!J.gh March5,from7to 10 p.m. at the Albany Chapter HotlSe. to continue. Upon successful completion of the course, participants will be qualified to teach Standard First Aid :(]:.ecture) and Advanced First Aid. If you have already proven yourself with a current Advanced First Aid certificate and are at least 17 years of age, give us your best shQt and let the Albany Chapter of the American Red Cross put your experience to work. · · might cause permanent genetic d~age in the user and lead to birth defects in the fetus .Qf a user. PartiCipants will be required to pass both a written -ex:am and, skill exam during the first two nights of the course in order For additional information and to register, contact Nancy Graham at the Albany Chapter at (518) 4fl2•7461. Dr. Wahl emphasized the weakening effects of cocaine on the heart. Cocaine can cause arrl1.ythmia (irregular heart- beat) and can result in a heart attack. One would think that if a person suffered a heart attack at a young age, he would be healthier and thus suffer less . . ' Donate Blood Today 11:00- 5:00 Davidson Lounge . CAREERS Ill .. BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH GRADUM\E STUDIES AND RESEARCH Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology · Albany Medical College of U~ion University . With Research Emphulsln: NEUROSCIENCE .lila_,_....,. .. h\\\-1 Phanna~v . ll!eoeftteraarttlf;f..,ntnnMttuiO. CARDIOVASCULAR . PHARMACOLOGY CANCER CHEMOTHERAPY TOXICOLOGY HeuNtedeototJ' . Reprod~ctlwe Toa~f' -·-- .. --------------·----··------------- .. ----------------------------------,. Please send me information concerning the graduate program in lhe : I I I I I I ' I I I ' I I I I I I I Department of Pharmacology & Toxicology at the Albany Medical College. : I I I I ~ I -~--~~------------~--~------------ t;~ty ---~----State--------ZIP-------- I am interested in: tJ Ph.D. Program M.S. Program Ma.il to: Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology Albany Meclica.l College, Albany, ~ew York 12208. I . . -~'\!\'!\\'l!!!!...~~~-~-.~---'!\~\1\-!-~--~~'!!t~~~-----~-~-~~~------ ..... -----,-----~-- ... '!\-----·--- . ' .from the attack tban a middle aged person .. However, this is not the case~ As a person gets older and his arteries slowly narrow due to cholesterol build- up, the heart finds alternate routes to carry blood and other . blood vessels gradually widen to relieve the narrowing ar- teries', Eecall$e a yoUng adult doesn't have a significant cholesterol buila~up yet, the heart ol!ly relies on the wide arteries for the majority of blood transport. Wben an artery of a young person becomes blocked and tbe heart attack begins, the young heart does not have the alternative routes to send blood that an older heart would have. Because blood flow in a younger heart attack victim is hindered more than in an older v,ictim, the younger victim's heart. attack will be moe seri()US and cause more damage. Some cbronic users of cocaine have burned out their nasal septwn. In other words, the user can put bis fingers in one nostril and out the other. Dr. Wahl also expiained why the concentrated form of cocaine, crack is as dangerous as has been reported by the media in the past year. A crack user experiences the \high\ within six: to eight seconds after smoking. Although the high is gone within a minute, the detrimental physical effects last up to an hour. The user's heart rate, respiration and body temperature all increase and do not decline as quickly as the high disappears. When the user smokes again right after he has lost his high, he further in- creases his heart rate and respiration before they can decline. What results is that a user smokes many times in a short period becawe the high is so short in duration and the physical effects which last much longer get compounded which can result in a heart attack or stroke. · My next question was what does alcohol do to the liver that will prohibit its performance? The liver is basically the body's purifier and it must clear the blood of all the toxins in alcohol. The breakdown of alcohol which occurs in the liver is deadly to the liver's cells. Dr. Wahl ex 8 plained that lart;1e amounts of alcohol imbibed at one time are more damaging to the liver than light conswnption of one or two beers a day. This is because the body gets overloaded by the great amount of alcohol at one time and it is a shock to the liver. Dr. Wahl emphasized t'-lat as the liver cells die, scarr4lg occurs which weakens the liver's ability to extract im~ portant nutrients which aid in blood clotting from the victim's blood. Thus, a person with a damaged liver will bleed easier. Long term abuse of alcohol can result in esophogeal cancer, colon cancer, gwn disease and loss of teeth and mental deterioration. Next I asked Dr. Wahl when cocaine and marijuana are prescribed by a doctor and for what reasons. He pointed out that because cocaine shrinks the capillaries in the nose, it is used typically in nasal surgery to prevent bleeding and as an anesthetic. Dr. Wahl added that cocaine users often experience nosebleeds because as the cocaine constricts the capillaries no blood can reach the exposed nasal cells and so they die. Marijuana is .given to chemotherapy patients who experience severe nausea because it supresses the nausea. It is also given to glaucoma victim, but only in pill form. State Of The Union Coming Early This Spring The following items remain unclaimed from the October 1986 Computer Fair. Please collect your prize before February 27, 1987. Door Prizes Awarded to Attendees of the Computer Fair. Prize Awarded to Donated by Dutch Treat Files (software for PC DOS) Jeff Bloom so Microcomputt< ~ lOMaxwell Floppy Discs A.J. Bingham Upstate Computer Shop 10 Maxwell Floppy Discs Ananth Mudgill . Upstate Computer Shop 103M Diskettes IN/Case Alex Brown GA Computer Products 103M Diskettesw/Case Stacy Steglitz GA Computer Products VAX Cluster Account Eric Linhar1t Union College OCS VAX duster Account Matt LeBlanc Union College OCS Please c<>ntact The Office of computer Services to collect your prize. ~ The Bio.logy Department and Biology Club Present: J 'Experimental Studies On Prinunjr Cilia\ Tuesday, February 24, 1897 4:30 p.m. .. Room 88104 Conly L. Rieder S.U.N.Y Alabany Refreshments 4:15p.m. RoomSS104 Host: G. Smith \tl'•

CONCOR.DIENSJS, Februa~y 19. 1987 Page II SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Reik~i- Long Term Effects of Drugs A Natura:l Healing Art :By JOHN BERGERON This week we will take a look at the }()ng term effects of three common drugs, alcohol, marijuana, and cocaine. The infonnation is taken from an interview with Terry Wahl, M.D. the school physician and doctor at Ellis Hospital. Reiki Master Linda Keiser will be giving Reiki I and n training February 26, 27, 28, and March 1 at the Spring Street Building, 110 Spring Street, Saratoga, N.Y. 12866. Reilti is a Japanese word representing Universal Life Energy - the energy that is all around us. Reiki is also a system of natural healing that accesses and tl·ansmits this energy, using tr aditiDnal laying-on-of-hands, to create balance and hannony within the body. Reiki catalyzes the body's natural ability tD heal itself and maintain a balance of health. Reiki is an excellent com- plementary mode of 11ealing, deeply relaxing, non~in.trusive. Linda Keiser lives i.-1 the Washington, D.C. areru and teaches Reiki through()llt the 1JnitedStates. She is a g])ad;uate of Mount Holyoke College , Yale University, a founder and member of the Boc:u::·d of Directors of the InstlitJ.te of Consciousness and Music, .and The Well-8prings Founllation. She has had extensive balning in the healing arts pertiruer.it to ib.e human potential mov~ment. For further informatio:n and r,egistration,. please call Fenny Jewell at 587-3723 or 583·17'~2; or write 5 Spring Steet, S~tvoat<>ga, N.Y. 12866. First Aiel l~ns1ructor' s Course Offered My first question was what a·re tile physical long term ef- fects ()£ marijuana and cocaine abuse~ and how does marijuana smoki!Jg compare to cigarette smokillg? Dr. Wahl explained that it has been more difficult to trace the effects of marijuana than tobacco because there is a much smaller percentage of marijuana users than tobacco users. Also, because widespread marijuana did not occur until the 1960s, it is still too early to determine any ill effects suffered by the users. Of the studies that have been perfonned, Dr. Wahl stated that they are showing that chronic daily users of marijuana double or triple their chances of getting cancer or lung disease. Marijuana is now believed to be more toxic than tobacco and it might cause permanent genetic damage in the user and lead to birth defects in the fetus of a user. to continue. Upon succ·essfnl <:ompletion of the c!luse, participants will be qualified to teach Standard First Aid (Lecture) and Advanced First .Aid. The Albany Red Cross is offering an Advanced First A.id Instructor's course for those interested in eaching first aid. This course has been designed for individuals who have had some experience in the field and who would like to share it with others. The course will be held Tuesday and Thursday evenings, February 3 through March 5, from 7 to 10 p.m. at the Albany Chapter House. Participants will be required to pass both a written exam and skill exam during the first two nights of the course in order If you have already ~roven :yourself with a Clllrrent .Advanced First Aid cer1Lfkate and are atleast 17 years u.Lage, give us your best shot amd let the Albany Chapter of tbe American Red Cross pll~ your experience to work. For additional information and to register, contact Nancy Graham at the Albany Cbapter at (518) 462-7461. Dr. Wahl emphasized the weakening effects of cocaine on the heart. Cocaine can cause arrhytlunia (irregular heart- beat) and can result in a heart attac~. One would think that if a person suffered a heart attack at a ymmg age, he would be healthier and thus suffer less Donate Blood Today 11:00- 5:00 Davidson Lounge CAREERS II BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH GRADUATE STUDIES AND RESEARCH > • Depar:tment of Phar,macologyr al'ld Toxic:o.rogy . , · \Albai'I~(Nedical College oftJI1.iiCl-n l.Jniversity ·- · With RuiiO!tlrch Emphasis In: NEUROS CIENCE Newrophatrmfc.cJov1 llehrfloo-,;ji1Pt1amwcclo9~ Rec.plorl•rnt tltHJrottanuntuloa CARDIIlWilSCULAR PHARMI='~IJ LOGY CANCEIU l'lHEMOTHER.AfY TOXICEJLOGY N•urolo•lc:IDlo-sY Rellrod~&>e:ll\'' \Te!d41oloeW' ------p;;~;~~~d-~~-~~;~;~;ii~~-~~~~;;~i~~-th;-~;;:;;;,~-~;~9;;~-in-th~-------: Department of Pllarmacology & Toxicology at th.e ~lbany Medical Coll~e. : I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ~ I Hame 1 I I I I I .t.ddress I City----- State _____ ZJI) ------ I am lntere:sted in: 0 Ph.D. Program M$.Program Mai 1 to: Depart111en.t of Pharmaco 1 ogy and Toxi.col ogy Alba11_y Medical College, Alban~. l\le-w York 12208. ---·~!'\- ......... ·-·--·---~-----------~'!\----:---\-'! ..... ·------- ----- ··-------- -- from the attack than a middle aged person. H<Jwever, this is not the case. As a person gets older and his arteries slowly narrow due to cholesterol build- up, the heart finds alternate routes to carry blood and other blood vessels gradually widen to relieve the narrowing ar- teries. Because a young adult doesn't have a significant cholesterol build-up yet, the heart only relies on the wide arteries for the majority of blood transport. When an artery of a young person becomes blocked and the heart attack begins, the young heart does not have the alternative routes to send blood that an older heart would have. Because blood flow in a younger heart attack victim is hindered more than in an older victim, the younger victim's heart attack will be moe serious and cause more damage. Some chronic users of cocaine have burned out their nasal septum. rn other words, the user can put his fingers in one nostril and out the ()ther. Dr. Wahl also explained why the concentrated form of cocaine, crack is as dangerous as has been reported by the media in the past year. A crack user experiences the \high\ within six: to eight seconds after smoking. Although the high is gone within a minute, the detrimental physical effects last up to an hour. The user's heart rate, respiration and body temperature all increase and do not decline as quickly as the high disappears. When the user smokes again right after he has lost his high, he further in· creases his heart rat-e and respiration before they can decline. What results is that a user smokes many times in a short period because the high is so short in duration and the physical effects which last much longer get compounded which can result in a heart attack or stroke. My nex:t question was what does alcohol do to the liver that will prohibit its performance? The liver is basically the body's purifier and it must clear the blood of au the toxins in alcohol. The breakdown of alcohol which occurs in the liver is deadly to the liver's cells. Dr. Wahl ex- plained that large amounts of alcohol imbibed at oae time are more damaging to the liver than light consumption of one or two beers a day. This is because the body gets overloaded by the great amount of alcohol c1t one time and it is a shock to the liver. Dr. Wahl emphasized t\at as the liver cells die, scarri.1g occurs which weakens the liver's ability to extract im- portaRt nutrients which aid in blood clotting from the victim's blood. Thus, a person with a damaged liver will bleed easier. Long term abuse of alcohol can result in esophogeal cancer, colon cancer, gwn disease and loss of teeth and mental deterioration. Next I asked Dr. Wahl when cocaine and marijuana are prescribed by a doctor and for what reasons. He pointed out that because cocaine shrinks the capillaries in the nose, it is used typically in nasal surgery to prevent bleeding and as an anesthetic. Dr. Wahl added that cocaine users often experience nosebleeds because as the cocaine constricts the capillaries no blood can reach the exposed nasal cells and so they die. Marijuana is given to chemotherapy patients who experience severe nausea because it supresses the nausea. It is also given to glaucoma victim, but only in pill form. State Of The Union Coming Early This Spring The following items remain unclaimed from the October 1986 Computer Fair. Please collect your prize before February 27. 1987. Door Prizes Awarded to Attendees of the Computer Fair. Prize Awarded to Donated bl' Dutch Treat File& (software for PC DOS) Jeff Bloom 80 Microcompu '· ' 10Maxwell Floppy Discs A.J. Bingham Upstate Compufrr '-'lop 10 Maxwell Floppy Discs Ananth Mudgill Upstate Computer Shop 103M Diskettes w/Case Alex Brown GA Computer Products 103M Diskettes w/Case Stacy Steglitz GA Computer Products VAX Cluster Account Eric Linhar':lt Union College OCS VAX Cluster Account Matt LeBlanc Union CollegeOCS Please contact The Office of Computer Services to collect your prize. ~ The Biology Department and Biology Club Present: J 'Experimental Studies On Primary Cilia\ Tuesday, February 24, 1897 4:30 p.m. - Room SS104 Conly L. Rieder S.UN.Y Alabany Refreshments 4:15 p.m. RoomSS104 Host: G. Smith -6 I . ,

.Page12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 19,19ll7 THE ARTS It's Here to Stay • • By ILYSSE FEINOOLD The annual Panhellenic Cabaret Contest which was held on Thursday, February 12 at 8 p.m. and _ supported the Schenectady Rape Crisis Center seemed to inspire less en- thusiasm than la$t year's performance. Last year's cabaret which was like a musical review had more acts and more versitility in talent. A greater number of faculty and administration also par~ ticipated in last year's cabaret. In general, this year's audience seemed surprised at the uniformity and the .predic- tibility of the acts. Some of the music honored Valentine's Day as did the decor of the Old Chapel which was decorated- with \I love you\ balloons and \be mine\ crepepaper fans. The first of eight different acts began with the Union Jazz Trio. This was the only faculty act and quite good, may I add. The trio consisted of Vice President D'Andrea on drums, Professor .Presloff on keyboards and Professor Ross on guitar. These musicians seemed quite comfortable with each other. Although one member of the trio informed the audience that \they had never played together before-that's the way jazz should be played,'' it was hard to imagine that such a precise performance was spontaneous. Each of the musicians seemed to sense and feel the music. This connection to their instrwnents and music seemed to be missing in some of the other acts. These artists, whose time was up much too quickly, were full of smiles and seemed sorry to exit the stage. Another highlight was the three Delta Gamma sisters, Gail Blumenfeld, Melanie Blackman and Becky Thayer who came in in fourth place in the contest. The sisters har- monized well and the three voices had an interesting blend. These girls enjoyed themselves as did the audience and in· teracted well. Andrew Gonzalez, a newcomer to the cabaret stage, received a $25 gift certificate to the campus bookstore for his performance. Andrew had a rather large cheering squad that evening. His fraternity gave their friend a standing ovation at the conclusion of his perfonnance. It is interesting to point out that although Andrew does not know how to read music, be writes his own music. After listening to his songs it was quite evident that the titles of his songs were intentional and well thought out. In \Emotions Resolved\ one could hear the beginning emotions of uncertainty, in- security, and confusion reach a peak and then achieve a statis. Second place in the panehllonic contest went to Corey Steinberg and Robert Mazow. Robert showed his versatility as a musician; he sang and accompanied Corey on· the piano and guitar. Corey had excellent voice projection; her performance was done without the assistance of a microphone. Dave Provost by Jan Goldstein Because she used no microphone there was no voice distortion and the pure and clear tonal quality of her voice was most apparent. These artists performed \Desperado\ by Linda Ronhstadt, \Father and Son\ by Cat Stevens and the theme song \The Rose\ from Bette Midler's movie, The Rose. For tbeir performance, Corey and Rob won two tickets to \The Flying Karamazou Brothers at Proctor's Theater. It was~ no surprise that Sean Connelly and Dave Provost received first place in the cabaret. These artists have the most experience performing for these events. Dave, who is a t• t;J fn\ ~ fn\ 1o) gGlilll ~wlill~lllill6~ ~[ IN THE PUS II s:oo & 10:00 • I e junior, has been involved .in cabarets since his freshman year. For this panhellenic event these artists improved their repertoire. Dave played a new song which he dedicated to his grandfather. Dave informed us of his grandfather's words: \You have to have something which is a little special\-this for Dave is his guitar. Something which makes ·both Dave ahd Sean's performance a little bit more personal and exciting is the storytelling mode into which they both fall. Sean. played his 46-second song wbich efffected his audience because the inspiration of the song came from a peer. He made reference to the world's problems and the lack in students' understanding and concern for these major issues because of their lack of time to investigate. Sean -and Dave ended their performance with their trade-mark \Good Love\~ this song suffered from lack of audience participation. Special thanks . to other performers, Cyndie Coonie, Jared Blume and Steve San- ders. As our evening's host and entertainer, Jim Manly deserves applause. The three judges Mrs. Marra, director of student activities, Martha Huggons, professor .of sociology and Laurie Silberg, president of the · panhellenic council als(J deserve recognition. Don't .miss Cabaret tonight at 8 and 10 p.m. Art Stud:en.t of . 'Jhe ~·ee&· \ ' \ ' ' By MELISSA STEWART . ' Catalina CasteUs describes : herself ~s \a jack..of-all-trades • as far as the Arts are con- cerned.\ A sophomore from Felemington, New Jersey, she is presently an Arts-Modern Language major, but plans to become a full fledged Arts major. She is interested and deeply involved in many of the activities sponsored by the Arts department.. She e11joys photography and was .fortmtate to have the opportllllity to work . for a professi<mal photographer in New York City during the summer. She also enjoys singing and was a member of Union's choir last year; however she did not continue to participate thls year because . she is too busy with other ac- . tivities. During high school, she was very involved in the· chorus and, as a result, was able to attend Westminster Vocal Camp for. a week. The area of · the Arts she loves most is the technical aspects of theater. She is presently acting as the stage manager for the Manhattan Project's presen- tation of \Alice in Wonderland\ which will be presented February 24-28 in Nott Memorial Theatre. She has also been involved in other productions at Union such as \Crimes of the Heart\ and \An . Evening with Sam Shepard.\ Her interest in the theater began at her high school which presented five shows a year .. Catalina plans to attend graduate school and eventually become a professor at a college L. GJ c. 0. rc ·~ •<( >- .c .e 0 .s:: Q; ac a or university. She also hopes ·to continue her .involvement in technical theater. Wllen asked her views of the Arts depart- ment, she said that it was too small for someone wh() wants to be strictly an Arts major. ''But that's understandable~ After all, Union ts known for its engineering and . science programs, not its A:rts.\ For this reason, she is considering transferring ·to another school. \It's nice to be a big fish in a small pond ... but I really need more.\ She feels that it would be difficult to fihd a graduate school willing to accept her if she· .graduated from Uniqn's Arts department. She has decided to take next year off and hopes to spend that time working in a museum. If she does decide to transfer, her ability in technical theatrics will, no doubt, be missed. Concordiensis would like to extend · congratulations to Catalina for being chosen as \Art Student of the Week\ and wish ·her luck for the future.

.Page 12 CONCORDJENSIS, February 19, 1987 THE ARTS It's Here to Stay • • By ILYSSE FEINGOLD The annual Panhellenic Cabaret Contest which was held on Thursday, February 12 at 8 p.m. and supported the Schenectady Rape Crisis Center seemed to inspire less en- thusiasm than last year's performance. Last year's cabaret which was like a musical review had more acts and more versitility in talent. A greater number of fact:rl.ty and administration also par- ticipated in last year's cabaret. In general, this year's audience seemed surprised at the uniformity and the predic- tibility of the acts. Some of the music hcmored Valentine's Day as did the decor of the Old Chapel which was decorated with \I love you\ balloons and \be mine\ crepepaper fans. The first of eight different acts began with the Union Jazz Trio. This was the only faculty act and quite good, may I add. The trio consisted of Vice President D'Andrea on drwns, Professor Presloff on keyboards and Professor Ross on guitar. These musicians seemed quite comfortable with each other. Although one member of the trio informed the audience that \they had never played together before-that's the way jazz should be played,\ it was hard to imagine that such a precise performance was spontaneous. Each of the musicians seemed to sense and feel the music. This connection to their instruments and music seemed to be missing in some of the other acts. These artists, whose time was up much too quickly, were full of smiles and seemed. sorry to exit the stage. Another highlight was the three Delta Gamma sisters, Gail Blumenfeld, Melanie Blackman and Becky Thay\~r who came in in fourth place in the contest. The sisters har- monized well and the three voices bad an interesting blend. These girls enjoyed themselves as did the audience and in- teracted well. Andrew Gonzalez, a newcomer to the cabaret stage, received a $25 gift certificate to the campus bookstore for his performance. Andrew had a rather large cheering squad that evening. His fraternity gave their friend a standing ovation at the conclusion af his performance. lt is interesting to point out that although Andrew does not know how te read music, he writes his own music. After listening to his songs it was quite evident that the titles of his songs were intentional and well thought out. In \Emotions Resolved\ one could hear the beginning emotions of Wicertainty, in- security, and confusion reach a peak and then achieve a statis. Second place in the panehllonic contest went to Corey Steinberg and Robert Mazow. Robert showed his versatility as a musician; he sang and accompanied Corey on the piano and guitar. Corey had excellent voice projection; her performance was done without the assistance of a microphone. Dave Provost by Jan Goldstein Because she used no microphone there was no voice distortion and the pure and clear tonal quality of her voice was most apparent. These artists performed \Desperado\ by Linda Ronhstadt, \Father and Son'' by Cat Stevens and the theme song \The Rose\ from Bette Midler's movie, The Rose. For their performance, Corey and Rob won two tickets to \The Flying Karamazou Brothers at Proctor's Theater. It was no surprise that Sean Connelly and Dave Provost received first place in the cabaret. These artists have the most experience performing for these events. Dave, who is a • I • junior, has been involved in cabarets since his freshman year. For this panhellenic event these artists improved their repertoire. Dave played a new song which he dedicated to his grandfather. Dave informed us of his grandfather's words: \You have to have something which is a little special\-this for Dave is his guitar. Something which makes both Dave and Sean's performance a Uttle bit mare personal and exciting is the storytelling mode into which they both fall. Sean played his 40-second song which efffected his audience because the inspiration of the song came frem a peer. He made reference to the world's problems and the lack in students' understanding and concern for these major issues because of their lack of time to investigate. Sean and Dave ended. their performance with their trade-mark \Good Love\ this song suffered from lack of audience participation. Special thanks to other performers, Cyndie Coonie, Jared Blume and Steve San- ders. As our evening's ho5t and entertainer, Jim Manly deserves applause. The three judges Mrs. Marra, director of student activities, Martha Huggons, professor of sociology and Laurie Silberg, president of the panhellenic council also deserve recognition. Don't miss Cabaret tonight at 8 and 10 p.:m. No. Album Name 1. Al:fernative Tactics SturLent Tke Wee.~ Art of By MELISSA S'FEW..AitT Catalina CasteUs dE!;cribes herself as \a jack-of-all--trades as far as the Arts are con- cerned.\ A sopho:mole from Felemington, New Jersey, she is presently an Arts-Hodern Language Inajor, but Jll<lns to become a full fledgei Arts major. She is interested and deeply involved in man.y of the activities spcnsored by the Arts department. She enjoys photography and was fCJiiunate to have the <lpportunity t() work for a professional phot()gl'apher in New York City du:ri11g the summer. She also enjoys singing and was a meJilber of Union's choir last year; however she did not continue to participate this year lx!cause she is too busy with ()ther ac- tivities. During lligh scllool, she · was very involved in tilE chorus and, as a result, was able to attend Westrninster Vocal Camp for a week. The area of the Arts she loves mo:Jt is the technical aspects of tlleater. She is presently actinll as the stage manager f()F the Manhattan Project's presen- tation of \Alice in Wonderland\ which will be pr:-e~ented February 24-28 in Nott Memorial Theatre. She h.as also been involved in other productions at Union s11ch as \Crimes of the Heart\ amd \An Evening with Sam Sl!epard.\ Her interest in the 'fueater began at her high school which presented five shows a :year. Catalina plans to attend graduate school and eventually become a pmfessor at a college ·Grout)'· New Jotnmy 5 ... II> 0.. 0.. IU ~ <{ >- ..0 a Costella 0 ..... 0 ..!: 0.. or university. She also hopes to continue her involvement in technical theater. When asked her views of the Arts depart· ment, she said that it was t()o small. for someone who wants to be strictly an Arts major. \But that's understandable. After all, Union is known for its eng~neering and science programs, not its Arts.\ For this reason, she is considering transferring to another sch()ol. \It's nice to be a big fish in a small pond ... but I really need more.\ She feels that it would be difficult to find a graduate school willing ta accept her if she graduated .from Union's Arts department. She has decided to take next year off and hopes to spend that tilne working in a museum. If she does decide to transfer, her ability in technical theatri(s will, no doubt, be missed. Concordiensls would like to extend congratulations to Catalina for being chosen ~s \Art Student of the Week\ and wish her luck for the future. Labe'l:· Arts' a Passion ·

\ ' ' Page13 ----~ . . . ' . . ~ ~ THE-ARTS Anclrew Mccarllly in \Mannequin\ Jan and Buddy at The Movies By CONRAD TATGE Husker Du, Warehouse: . _Songs - tories~ and By JULIE STEIN8Jm,G and WENDY ZIMMERMAN In \Manneq a con.- . temporary comedy starring . Andrew McCarthy and Kim Cattrall, Mc.Carthy plays Jonlilthan Switcher, an aspiring artist whose. pursuit of his . aesthetic ideal gets him fired from one menial job after another. While working t,~t a · · mannequin warehouse, he : creates a . manneq:uin who portrays that ideal, then loses her, only to find her ~gain in a department store wihdow. In one would have to look long order to be.· near his creation, and hard to find another double Jonatahn takes a night job at record of new songs along the . the store, and discoveres to bis . lines of Warebouse. All right, surprise that after closing, the London Callillg by the Clash, · . mannequin comes . to life :for but that was eight years ago.. Jonathan's eyes only. Busker Du has survived the Emmy, the mannequin transition to a major label played by Kim Cattrall., is the ·(Warner Bros. from SST) and a perfect nlghtti.rne companion lack of ·. attention from the· · · for Jonathan. But. their current cl)mrnercial radio relationship must ~ carried on wasteland, to emerge as one of. in a clandestine fashion so as ·America's most respected . not to al'ouse any stlspicion. bands. The .f.act that Husker Du Prince & Co. Department Store, is releasing a double record ji.JSt is caught In a life and death ten months after Candy Apple struggle with Illustra, a Grey demonstrates .the record. · modern, glitzy rival that is company's confidence in the: · detei'lnin'ed to put the older Minneapolis trio .. The appeal of· etablishment out of business. Husker Du lies in their tendency· Only Jonathan and Emmy can to stray from the mainstream. : · Their sound is. innov.ative and refined and their lyrics often deal with a human feeling . of. inner conflict. Additionally,, their stage silows ·and general· attitude · are anything but conformist. On their SST records before Candy Apple Grey, Husker Du mastered tne thrash ballads-• those gut wrenching words ' · shouted at gllitar, way over the <Speed limit. Candy Apple Grey . · had a slow, acoustic tune . thrown in at the end of one side· . · keep that . from happening... Radio Days thanks to the magic that they Woody Allen work at night· in Prince & Co.'s Crossgates Cine m~ginficant displaf windows. (lrade.. A. Buddy and I are back due to Their allies in this struggle the truckloads of fan mail we are Claire Timkin played by received urging our return. We. Estelle Getty (The Golden understand that \Jim at the Girls), the owner of Prince & movies'' and \Paul at home Co., and \Hollywood\ played by With a movie\ are not adequate Mesh~ch Taylor, a freep.. substitutes for our colwnn. Our spirited window dresser· who audience may rest assured has developed his .own flam· because we have given Jim and bouyant style for coping with . Paul the boot. the modern world. Representing Currently, Buddy and I are on the opposition are James. a .quest to view only the Spader, who was Andrew . cinematic presentations that innocent imagination of a young McCarthy's besUriend, Steff, in . deserve recognition. Woody boy in the World War II era. We \Pretty in Pink'', as Wustra's Allen's new fUm, Radio Days, are also able to see the true conniving double . agent, was a superb way to begin our identity of the fearless \Masked Richards, and Car()le Davis quest. Woody ~lien brings us Avenger\ who in actuality is a (The . Flamingo Kid)~ as back to his childhood to pay short,baldheaded man. Woody Jonathan's manipulative ex• tribute to the bygone era of.the Allen brilliantly reveals to the girlfriend, Roxie;. radio show. The ·film is not only audience the true identity of the \Manneqllin\ was definitely full of anecdotes about Woody's people behind the voices heard an enjoyable film, but it would own family, but also the lives of on the radio and the people not appeal to, all audiences due the radio stars they listen to. these voices touch each day. to the subject matter. In plilra A large part of each Woody Allen's unique style ticular, the typical girl-meets- character~cs · personality is and finesse has once again boy scenario set to upbeat revealed through -their con· successfully produced a fihn music. To be blunt, although it nection with the radio. Little which stands high above others. was,entertaining, it is debatable Woody's favorite radio show Radio Days has the 'magnetisms as to whether or not it was was \The Masked Avenger'', to elicit both laughter and tears worth five· dollars. Your best bet his prefrence reflecting the and should be viewed by all. is to wait until the stunmer ----------------------- when it will undoubtedly appear on cable and be available at your favorite video rental store. ·Indian Dance & Music By JOYCE CYBUL On Friday, February 13, the third section of the Winter Improvisition Series was · performed in the Performing Arts Studio in the Arts Building, and the theme of this per- formance was \Music and Dance\ and the main per· former was Lakshmi. She performed several traditional Indian Dance, which conveyed stories through use of bodily movements. percussion respectively. Laksh- mi was clad in a traditional gold and pink dress and jewelry, with bells on her nakles. The second half of the per- formance consisted of three more traditional pieces ac- companied by explanation of the dance and translations -of the songs and poems. Andrew McCarthy and Kim Cattrall in Mannequin. which must have confused. their hard core. fans, but opened up a· whole new door which this · record continues on. Although there is nothing on Warehouse. · : .. ---------------- ... ----- .. The entire first half of the performance consisted of a traditional Indian dance per· formed by Lakshmi while ac- companied by traditional song and music. Josepha Cormack sang, while T. Visonthan, David Nelson, and Matthew Allen played the flute. drums, and In the lobby of the Arts Building was a collection of Indian objects displayed in a case. The series was arranged by Prof~sor Hilary Tahn, and so far, has proved to be ex- tremely successful. The fourth and final performance will be on February 27, and Vera Orlock will be dancing ac- companied by a pianist. There was a full turnout last Friday. and hopefully, that will be the case in two weeks. as surprising as o Candy Apple Grey, Husker Du does see their . . need to slow down a little. This record needs a lot of exploring. Luckily, nothing stands out as the greatest song on the record-they just seem to be one big song at first. Husker Du has included lyrics and lots of neat warehouse photos so I'll let you figure out the meaning of · the title. · PARENTS WEEKEND Is Coming1 T -Shirt Design Contest \\'\\'\\\\\\\\'\\\'\'\''\\'.;\\'\\\'\\''''\'\''''\'\'\\'\\'\'\'\\\'/. for the weeken·d will run u:ntil March 12 All Designs should be submitted to student activities. For more information call Mrs. Marra or Miss Clark at student activities. Go See ALICE! Nott M.emorial Th·eatre February· 24-.28, 1987. 8 p.m. $3.00 Students $4.00/ Faculty & Staff $5.00/ General Admission

ByCONRADTA'llGE Husker Du · Warehouse: Songs. and. tories One would have to lo()k long and hard to find another double record of new songs alollg the lines of Warehouse. .All right, London Calling by tile Clash, but that was eight years ago. Husker Du has survi-ved the transition to a maj()r label (Warner Bros. from SS'l') and a lack of attention fr()m the current commercial radio wasteland, to emerge as one of America's most respected bands. The fact that Husker Du is releasing a double rec()rd just ten months after Candy Apple Grey demonstrates the record company's confidence in the Minneapolis trio. The appeal of Husker Du lies in their tendency to stray from the mainstream. Their .sound is innovative and refined and their lyrics often deal with a hwnan feeling of inner conflict. Additionally, their stage shows and general attitude are anything but conformist. On their SST record.s before Candy Apple Grey, H11sker Du mastered the thrash ballads- those gutwrenching words shouted at guitar, way over the speed limit. Candy Apple Grey had a slow, acoustic tune thrown in at the end of one side which must have confused their hard core fans, but opened up a whole new door whkh this record continues on. Although there is nothing on Warehouse as surprising as o Candy Apple Grey, Husker Du does see their need to slow do\\11 a little. This record needs .a lot of exploring. Luckily, nothing stands out as the greatest song on the record-they jllst seem to be one big song at fir:st. Husker Du has included lyrics and lots of neat warehouse photos so I'll let you figure out the rneaning of the title. A performance of Anton Chekb.ov's \The Three Sisters\ by the Perisllable Theatre will be held at the Nott Memorial on March 6, 1~87 at 8:00 p.m •. Tickets available at the ticket booth,. 0 Id Chapel 1st floor. Tickets for Students are $3.()() Others are $5.00 CONCORDJENSJS, February 19, 1987 Page 13 THE -ARTS Andrew McCarthy in 11 Mannequin\ By JULIE STEINBERG and WENOY ZIMMERMAN In \Mannequin'' a con- temporary comedy starring An~ew McCarthy and Kim Cattrall, McCarthy plays Jonathan Switcher, an aspiring artist whose pursuit of his aestnetic ideal gets him fired ~rom one menial job after another. While working at a mannequin warehouse, he creates a mannequin who portrays that ideal, then loses her, ()nly to find her again in a department store window. In. order to be near his creation, Jonatalm takes a night job at the store, and discoveres to his surprise that after closing, the mannequin comes to life for Jonathan's eyes only. keep that from happening .•. thanks to the magic that they work at night in Prince & Co.'s maginficant display windows. Their allies in this struggle are Claire Timkin played by Estelle Getty (The Golden Girls), the owner of Prince & Co., and \Hollywood\ played by Meshach Taylor, a freep- spirited window dresser who has developed his own flarn- bouyant style :f()r coping with the modern W()rld. Representing the opposition are James Spader, wh() was Andrew McCarthy's best ~riend, Steff, in \Pretty in Pink\ as Illustra's conniving d()uble agent, Richards, and Carole Davis (The Fla:rningo Kid), as Jonathan's manipulative ex- girlfriend, Roxie. Radio Days Woody Allen Crossgates Cine (irade- A Buddy and I are back due t0 the truckloads of fan mail we received urging our return. We understand tllat \Jim at the movies\ and \Paul at home with a movie\ are not adequate substitutes for our column. Our audience n1ay rest assured because we have given Jim and Paul the bmt. Currently, Buddy and I are on a quest t() view only the cinematic presentations that deserve rec()gnition. Woody Allen's new Him, Radio Days, was a superb way to begin our quest. Wood:y Allen brings us back to his childhood to pay tribute to the bygone era of the radio show. The fihn is not only full of anecdotes about Woody's own family, bat also the lives of the radio stars they listen to. A large part of each character's personality is revealed through their con- nection with the radio. Little Woody's favorite radio show was \The Masked Avenger\ his prefrence reflecting the innocent imagination of a young boy in the World War II era. We are also able to see the true identity of the fearless ''Masked Avenger\ who in actuality is a short,baldheaded man. Woody Allen brilliantly reveals to the audience the true identity of the people behind the voices heard on the radio and the people these voices touch each day. Woody Allen's unique style and finesse has once again successfully produced a fihn which stands high above others. Radio Days has the 'magnetisms to elicit both laughter and tears and should be viewed by all. Emmy, the mannequin played by Kim Cattrall, is the perfect nighttime companion for Jonathan. But their relationship must be carried on in a clandestine fashion so as not to arouse any suspicion. Prince & Co. Department Store, is caught in a life and death struggle with Illustra, a modern, glitzy rival that is detennined to put the older etablishment out of business. Only Jonathan and Emmy can \Mannequin~' was definitely an enjoyable film, but it would not appeal to all audiences due to the subject matter. In par- ticular, the typical girl-meets- boy scenario set to upbeat music. To be blunt, although it was entertaining, it is debatable as to whether or not it was worth five dollars. Your best bet is to wait until the swnmer when it will WldDubtedly appear on cable and he available at your favorite vi d. eo rental store. Indian Dance & Music Andrew McCarthy and Kim Cattrall in Mannequin. PARENTS WEEKEND Is Coming! T-Shirt Design Contest \'\\\\\\\\\\'\\'\\\\'\'\\'\\\'\\.l\-\.//./.1'.// for the weekend will run until March 12 All Designs should be subm it1ed to student activities. For more inf<>rmation call Mrs. Marra or Miss Clark at student activities. f'//OQ///#/7/U/////U//H//~ ~ GERMAN ~ ~LANGUAGE ~ ~ TABLE I By JOYCE CYBUL On Friday, February 13, the third section of the Winter Irnprovisiti()n Series was performed in the Performing Arts Studio in the Arts Building, and the theme of this per- formance was \Music and Dance'', and the main per- former was Lakshmi. She performed several traditional Indian Dance, which conveyed stories through use of bodily ... movements. ~ The entire first half of the ~ performance consisted of a .... 5 traditional Indian dance per- 3 formed by Lakshmi while ac- companied l>y traditional song and music. Josepha Cormack sang, while T. Visonthan, David Nelson, ami Matthew Allen played the flute, drums, and percussion respectively. Laksh- mi was clad in a traditional gold and pink dress and jewelry, with bells on her nakles. The second half of the per- formance consisted of three more traditional pieces ac- companied by explanation of the dance and translations of the songs and poems. In the lobby of the Arts Building was a collection of Indian objects displayed Ln a case. The series was arranged by Professor Hilary Tahn, and so far, has proved to be ex· tremely successful. The fourth and final performance will be on February 27, and Vera Orlock will be dancing ac- companied by a pianist. There was a full turnout last Friday, and hopefully, that will be the case in two weeks. Go See ALICE! Nott Memorial Theatre February 24-28, 1987. 8 p.m. ~· every friday ~ ~ 12:30- 1:30 p.m., ~ ~ Hale House ~ 'J?//Q#H/H////H////U//HH~ $3.00 Students $4.00! Faculty & Staff $5.00/ General Admission

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, Februar;y 19, 1987 THE ARTS Arts Briefs Photo Club Sponsors Contest The Union College Photo Club will be sponsoring its first contest of the year at the end of February. The contest will include . a display of work done by students; faculty, and staff. The photos will be on display from February 25 through February 28 on the third floor of Old Chapel Prizes will be awarded by Berns Camera Store, in two categories, one in black and white, and one for color. Photos for either category must be 5X7 and 11X14 and mounted on a rigid backing for hanging. Entrees may be dropped off in Mrs. Marra's.office on 3rd floor, Old Chapel before February 26th. For more information, contact the photo club through campus mail at Box 2533. Choir to Perform The Union College Choir, directed by Professor Hugb .Allen Wilson will present a concert this Sunday, February 22, at 3:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Admission is not Qnly free, but it is your last chance to catch the choir before their tour in Florida. Chuck Mangione general public. For more in· formation, call 266-85B. Margaret Avery at R.P.I .. Miss Avery, who starred as . \Shug\ in the film \The Color Purple'' will be· appearing on Friday, February 27 at B p.m. in Room 3510 of the Sage Building on the RPI campus. Admission : is $2.00 for the general public. Water Colors in Worcester An exhibition of major American watercolors from the early 19th century to tlle present will be held in the Worcester Art Museum in Massachusetts. Beginning on March 8, the show is comprised of 85 paintings · featuring 19 by Windsor Homer and 9 by Singer Sargent. The Worcester Art Museunds open · Tuesday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m ... , on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and on Sunday, from 1 p.m. t() 5 p.m. Admission is free. For more information, call 617-799-4406. · Group Sales at Proctor's Now at Proctor's, not only can This double platinum artist your group enjoy the thrill and has been nominated for several . excitement of live, professional Granunys and an Emmy for his performing arts events, it can • Jazz music. He will be playing also receive substantial ; .at ESIPA at The Egg, Saturday, discounts and opportttnities to February 28, at 8 p.m. Tickets raise money. The Group Sales are $15, but student rush tickets department will be happy to at $7 will be offered 30 minutes help you arrange group seats .. before curtain time. Tickets are For most performances, . available at the box office of Proctor's will provide a . ESIPA at The Egg, . and all discount for gr 0 ups of 20 or CBO's. Please call 443-5111. more. Please ~all Jeanne Toth National Dance Company at R.P.I. In celebration of Black History Month, the National Cultural Theater and Dance Company of Gambia will a~r pear on Sunday, February 22, 1987 at 8 p.m. in the West Hall Auditoriwn on RPI's campus. Admission is $2.00 for RPI students, $3.00 for other colleges, and $5.00 for the at 382-3884. Jazz Harpist- Vocalist at R.P.I. Harvi Griffin will be per• forming at RPI on Friday, February 20 at 8 p.m. in the RPI student union McNeil Room. Admission is $2.00 f()r college students and the general public .. For more information, please call 266-8585. . The International Relations Club Presents: Great Decisions: Egypt and the U.S Uneasy Relations Wednesday, February 25th at 7:30p.m. Hale House, Lower Lounge ALL ARE WELCOME! At Proctor's ... Ballet Rambert By ROBERT OSBORNE and MICHELLE MANLEY Ayone who says that there is notlting to do in Schenectady must have overlooked the presence of Proctor's Theatre on State Str~et. Proctor's is a non~profit organi2ation which offers a diverse selection of performing arts. Union College ·students, as tenlporary residents of Schenectady, are fortunate to have access to a theatre of. such high quality. As graduating seniors and frequent visitors to Proctor's, it .is ap- parent to us that few Union students attend the live per- formances offered. We strongly urge all Union College students to take a break from their , studies and go to Proctor's Theatre for an evening of en- tertainment. Saturday evening, February 14, Ballet Rambert, a British dance company, performed at Proctor's. Marie Rambert, a student, teacher, and choreographer of modern and classical dance, founded the . company in 1926. Since then, Banet Rambert has evolved into a company which demonstrates excellence in technique as well as creativity in movement. The dances in Saturday evening's per- formance exemplified these qualities. \Swamp\, a piece choreographed by . Michael Clark and performed by seven members of the company, opened. the program. The dynamic movements, .strong and sharp, whether slow or fast, when combined with the effects of music and costuming were powerful. · Costwning consisted of dark brown unitards with !'!light variations in style for eacll dancer, ~taled faces witll blackened eyes and hair pulled. · tightly away from the ··face. Each dancer, whether moving ~done or amongst the group, exuded strength and in- dividuality as well as intense isolation. Following '''Swamp\ was \SOda Lake\. It was the first of three remaining . pieces choreographed by Richard Alston. This piece, performed by Ben Craft without musical accompaniment, was a study of space. Nigel Hall, the person responsible for design in tbe piece, asserted \Its (the dan .. ce's) components determine how the space . is channeled, trapped. or disclosed.'' (Nigel Hall m conversation with Bryan Robertson, Warwik Arts TrW!t Catalogue, . 198()). The space which Nigel Hall .speaks of, a sparsely populated American landscape, was represented by both the dancer's movement and a prop which consisted of a long, narrow black pole ex- tendedfrom the ceiling next to a hollow round structure. Ben- craft, wearing all black, carved out space, moving aroWld and under the prop in silence. It was almost as if he was sculpting. \Dangerous Liaisons\ the third piece was fast paced and flighty, The dancers wore shimmery silver and white leotards and tights. Their movements were quick and precise, demonstrating per- fection in technique. Ballet Rambert Cathyrn Price a·nd Robert Poole The final dance in the program was lighthearted and subtly humorous. One of the eight subsections entitled \We n,ree:• was especially funny 1 In thts ptece, three male dancers mimicked each other as ~'my echo, my shadow and me\ because they did not have ~ sweetlleart. All of the dancers in the_ final piece displayed humor on the topic~ of love or lineliness. Ballet Rambert'.s performance was brilliant. Even if one knows little about modern dance, it a company which we are confident you will enjoy. ·The Way It Was ••• Bruce Hornsby at The Palace By MARY JO CONLEY . What better way is there to spend a February night than with a brussel sprout, an ac- cordian player and a movie star turned drummer? That was what the audience at Albany's Palace Theater was treated to last Thursday night. The Palace, which in the last year has brought Robert Palmer and · Roger Daltrey t<~ the Capital District, presented Bruce · Hornsby on February 12 in his first area performance. . Mr. Hornsby and his band, the . Range, have come to national ; attention. since the release of their debut album The Way It Is last May. The title track rose to the number one spot on the Billboard Pop Singles chart. For the past six months the band has been on the road, opening for performers like Steve Winwood. N.ow they are on their .first headlining · tour. likely could be classified as Yuppies. The concert began with Bruce playing piano and singing .. Jacob's Ladder\. Why did he start with a Huey Lewis song? According to the singer, he and his brother had Written the song and Mr. Lewis had ille~ally obtained and recorded it; now he . and the Range were ''reclaiming our song.'' Following this was, \Every Little Kiss\ the first. release froin tbe album, and \The Long Race\. After greeting the audience a~d saying how glad t;::ontinued on page 15 WANTED: On,e· (1) Script Consultant and Writer for all N.ew Student Times. For ln\fo. Contact Jerri Clark, office of Student Activiti:es #6129 Rewa·rd Offered! . Surprisingly, considering this band's heavy rotation on FM radio and MTV, the majority of 1 --------------..ai--illl---~ .. · the audience was in their late twenties or older and most w I.. 0 E J: Ill <! w c: . 'i: >- J: +- 11) u >- .0 0 +- 0 J: Q. w ... 0 .E .s:: </) <! w c:

Page 14 CONCORD/ENSIS, February 19, 1987 THE ARTS Arts Briefs Photo Club Sponsors Contest The Union College Photo Club will be sponsoring its first contest of the year at the end of February. The contest will include . a display of work done by students, faculty, and staff. The photos wi:ll be on display from February 25 through February 28 on the third floor of Old Chapel. Prizes will be awarded by Berns Camera Store, in two categories, one in black and white, and one for color. Photos for either category must be 5X7 and 11X14 and mounted on a rigid backing for hanging. Entrees may be dropped off in Mrs. Marra's office on 3rd floor, Old Chapel before February 26th.. For more information, contact the photo club through campus mail at Box 2533. Choir to Perform The Union College Choir, directed by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson will present a concert this Sunday, February 22, at 3:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Admission is not only free, but it is your last chance to catch the choir before their tour in Florida. Chuck Mangione This double platinwn artist has been nominated for several Grammys and an Emmy for his Jazz music. He will be playing at ESIP A at The Egg, Saturday, February 28, at 8 p.m. Tickets are $15, but student rush tickets at $7 will be offered 30 minutes before cwi.ain time. Tickets are available at the box office of ESIPA at The Egg, and all CBO's. Please call 443-5111. National Dance Company at R.P.I. In celebration of Black History Month, the National Cultural Theater and Dance Company of Gambia will ap- pear on Sunday, February 22, 1987 at 8 p.m. in the West Hall Auditorium on RPI's campus. Admission is $2.00 for RPI students, $3.00 for other colleges, and $5.00 for the general public. For more in- formation, call 266-858. Margaret Avery at R.P.I .. Miss A very, who starred as \Shug\ in the film \The Color Purple\ will be appearing on Friday, February27 at 8 p.m. in Room 3510 of the Sage Building c:m the RPI campus. Admission is $2.00 for the general public. Water Colors in Worcester An exhibition of major .American watercolors from the early 19th century to the present will be held in the Worcester Art :Museum in Massachusetts. Eeginning on March 8, the show is comprised of 85 paintings featuring 19 by Windsor Homer and 9 by Singer Sargent. The Worcester .Art Museum is open Tuesday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m ... , on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and on Sunday, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is free. For more information, call 617-799-4406. Group Sales at Proctor's Now at Proctor's, not only can your group enjoy the thrill and excitement of live, professional performing arts events, it can also receive substantial discounts and opportunities to raise money. The Group Sales department will be happy to help you arrange group seats. For most performances, Proctor's will provide a discount for groups of 20 or more. Please call Jeanne Toth at 382-3884. Jazz Harpist- Vocalist at R.P.I. Harvi Griffin will be per- forming at HPI on Friday, February 20 at 8 p.m. in the RPI student union McNeil Room. Admission is $2.00 for college students and the general public. For more information, please call 266-8585. ~~::c:~ The International Relations Club Presents: Great Decisions: Egypt and the U.S Uneasy Relations Wednesday, February 25th at 7:30p.m. Hale House, Lower lounge All ARE WELCOMEI At Proctor's ... Ballet Rambert By ROBERT OSBORNE and MICHELLE MANLEY Ayone who says that there is nothing to do in Schenectady must have overlooked the presence of Proctor's Theatre on State Street. Proctor's is a non-profit or-ganization which offers a diverse selection of performing arts. Union College students, as temporary residents of Schenectady, are fortWJate to have access to a theatre of such high quality. As graduating seniors and frequent visitors to Proctor's, it is ap- parent to us that few Union students attend the live per- formances offered. We strongly urge all Union College students to take a break from their studies and go to Proctor's Theatre for an evening of en- tertainment. Saturday evening, February 14, Ballet Rambert, a British dance company, performed at Proctor's. Marie Rambert, a student, teacher, and choreographer of modern and classical dance, founded the company in 1926. Since then, Ballet Rambert has evolved into a company which demonstrates excellence in technique as well as creativity in movement. The dances in Saturday evening's per- formance exemplified these qualities. \Swamp\, a piece choreographed by Michael Clark and performed by seven members of the company, opened the program. The dynamic movements, strong and sharp, whether slow or fast, when combined with the effects of music and costuming were powerful. Costuming consisted of dark brown unitards with slight variations in style for each dancer, paled faces with blackened eyes and hair pulled tightly away from the face. Each dancer, whether moving alone or amon.gst the group, exuded strength and in- dividuality as well as intense isolation. Following \Swamp\ was \Soda Lake\. It was the first of three remammg pieces choreographed by Richard Alston. This piece, performed by BeR Craft without musical accompaniment, was a study of space. Nigel Hall, the person responsible for design in the piece, asserted \Its (the dan- ce's) components determine how the space is channeled, trapped or disclosed.\ (Nigel Hall in conversation with Bryan Robertson, Warwik Arts Trust Catalogue, 1980). The space which Nigel Hall speaks of, a sparsely populated American landscape, was represented by both the dancer's movement and a prop which consisted of a long, narrow black pole ex- tended from the ceiling next to a hollow roWld structure. Ben- craft, wearing all black, carved out space, moving around and under the prop in silence. It was ahnost as if he was sculpting. \Dangerous Liaisons\ the third piece was fast paced and flighty. The dancers wore shinunery silver and white leotards and tights. Their movements were quick and precise, demonstrating per- fection in technique. Ballet Rambert Cathyrn Price and Robert Poole The final dance in the program was lighthearted and subtly humorous. One of the eight subsections entitled ''We Three\ WE;ls especially funny. In this piece, three male dancers mimicked each other as ''my echo, my shadow and me\ because they did not have a sweetheart. All of the dancers in the final piece displayed humor on the topics of love or lineliness. Ballet Rambert's performance was brilliant. Even if one knows little about modern dance, it a company which we are confident you will enjoy. ·The Way It Was ••• Bruce Hornsby at The Palace By MARY JOCONLEY . What better way is there to spend a February night than with a brussel sprout, an ac- cordian player and a movie star turned drummer? That was what the audience at Albany's Palace Theater was treated to last Thursday night. The Palace, which in the last year has brought Robert Palmer and Roger Daltrey to the Capital District, presented Bruce Hornsby on February 12 in his first area performance. Mr. Hornsby and his band, the Range, have come to national attention since the release of their debut album The Way It Is last May. The title track rose to the nwnber one spot on the Billboard Pop Singles chart. For the past six months the band has been on the road, opening for performers like Steve Winwood. Now they are on their first headlining tour. Surprisingly, considering this band's heavy rotation on FM radio and MTV, the majority of likely could be classified as Yuppies. The concert began with Bruce playing piano and singing '·'Jacob's Ladder\. Why did he start with a Huey Lewis song? According to the singer, he and his brother had written the sonf! and Mr. Lewis had illegally obtained and recorded it; now he and the Range were \reclaiming our song.\ Following this was, \Every Little Kiss\ the first release from the album, and \The Long Race\. After greeting the audience and saying how glad Continued on page 15 WANTED: One (1) Script Consultant and Writer for all New Student Times .. For Info. Contact Jerri Clark, office of Student Activities #6129 Reward Offered! 1 ----------------------• the audience was in their late twenties or older and most (!) ,_ 0 E .r:: en ~ Ql c: ,_ >- .r:: +- rtl u >- _Q 0 .... 0 .r:: c. Q) ... 0 E .r:: en <( Q) c: ,_ >- .r:: - rl) u >- _Q 0 0 .c ::J. ! ·~ ~ r I ~ ! ~ !: r ,, I ) I

Bruce· Hor.nsby Continue~ from .page 14 .Poet Da:v:id St •. John · Speaks in Huma.n.ities 'Lounge be was to be in Albany becauae it was one of the firSt cities to play his . rnuslc, Bruce sang '~Mandolin Rain'' his current single~ After a few more song~; in- <;luding \The Red Plains\ the stage was deserted by everyone except Mr. H()rnsby ~d, the ·drummer; H~ started to play a longpi'ano solo which ultimately turned into a m~ical battle wlth the drWilUler, Ouring this 10 to 15 minUte interval Bruce would· play a few chords that garnered cheers from members ot the au.dience who recognized them .. At last Bru~e played tbe S0ilg everyone had been waiting for.:\\''The Way It Is''~ This song was truly the highlight of the show~· providing· . the perfect vehiele for Mr. Hornsby's magaificant vocal and piano . skills. After the song, the dti.Uillller came out to take a bow 1 • .giving the audience the biggest surprise·of the evening'- it was Jack Nicholson. Mr. Nicholson (who is in .Albany filming \Ironweed\) then spent the rest of the show watching .fr.om the audience. . Bruce then got out his ac- cordian and explained that he thought the instrumep.t could find a place in the world of pop 111usic. He proved this in \Wild Frontier\ a sang written when By MARJORIE HOFFER I toc.k my seat in the Humanities Lounge to hear this week's visiting poet, DaVid St. John. \The mood of the evening was m-dlow. The author of titles such a.~ Hush, The Shore and No Heaveli, it is no surprise that his poems tread on a soft note. However, the ,poetry is hardly \airy\ in content. It is ~eep, well-written, and rich with meaning. 'l'he lounge was filled far the session as David St. John read a variety of poems com- plem~nted with subtle gesticulations. He began with the poem \Iris\ which was· an elegy to his grandmother, Vivien St. John. This poem was followed by \:PW!h''-the title poem St. John wrote about his son wM he was separated from . An example of St. John's acute sensitivity is in this passage of . 11 Hush\ \... Our letters-Close. Sometimes, you ask-About the world; sometimes, I answer back. Nights-Return you to me for a while, as sltle~-- returns sleep-To a landscape ravaged .. and familiar. The dark watermark. of your absence, a hllSh.\ n~ moved frQm, his native ;Vrrgini~ to L.A., and the closing number ~'Western Skyline\. Coming back onstage for the encore ''Somewhere Down the Road,\ Mr. Hornsby .provided amUSing anecdote~ about his . , Though his .poetry is predominantly serious, as, in fact, he noted that in his book, No Ueaven, the poems are about figtll'es on the margi,ns trying to work their way back ... he did change his pac~ when he read the \Kamasutra according to Fiat~'. Naturally the poetn elicited la11ghter as St. John described the passionate moments of Latin lovers in tiny fiats. One line .from the .poem gives. the spirit, \A Fiat's micromcompositions require the odtlest positions.\ In bet- :ween his recitation, St. John left room for some Witty remarks. It is clear that he is a brilliant poet and in tune with his audience. St. Jolm has such a · quiet manner tliat he could be telling us the wotld will self-destruct in three seconds, and nobody woUld ·panic. St. John is a graduate of the Writer's WoQrkshop at the University .of Iowa, and taught at Oberlin College. Now he is on staff at Johns Hopkins University. This was his second visit to Union in five years. One of our own professor's fon:ner professor, David St. John also sat in Dn a Creative Writing II class that .afternoon. His comments and advice were certainly appreciated by the students as he participated in a classroom critique of students' poetry. In fact, his entire visit was deemed a great success. Certainly well received by his audience that evening, especially after his final poem, \Man in the Yellow Gloves\ he probably would have left to a standing ovation-only he just was not the type of person you clap too loudly in front of. . youth wyile his guitarist, George Marinelli, did an im· pressive .impersonation of Jimi Hendrix. Before taking his fil)al bow, Bruce thanked \y'all for being so nice to us!' DON'T MISS Unfortunately, the opening act, country singer Gary Chapman, but a damper on an otherwise perfect evening. When he talked about mothers making little kids eat everything on their plates then remarked ''the dessert is coming but for now think of me as brussel sprouts;\ the audience coW.dtell he was going to be very bad. All hiS songs sounded the same, except· the lyrics got mor.:e stupid as the evening progressed. Mr. Champan sunk . to an all-time low With his rhinestone shirt and corny lyrics. By the time he left the stage, closing with the song \Gospel Ship\ the audience was re9.dy to shout- but only because he was leaving. Bruce Hornsby and the Range are conswnmate artists who truly deserve their current success, as the concert at the Palace proved--that's just the way it is, some things will never change. William tfumphrey- Author of Hostages of Fortune On Thurs. Feb. 28, at 3:30 & 8 p.m. in Humanities Lounge Congratulations to the winners of last Thursday's Panh'ellenic Cabaret 1st Place: 'Dave Provost Sean Connelly 2ncl Place: Corey Steinberg Robert Mazow • 3rd Place: Andrew Gonzalez 11 1(ings are white, Queens are red, when the Queen sees you 1 A/Off with your Head!\ Go See ALICEI . ~ One Week Only! February 24-28, 1967 at 8 p.m. Nott M'emorial Theatre 3 .. 00 Students $4 .. 00 Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Ad·misslon 1987 Page 15 THE __ ARTS Arts Briefs Pat Metheny Pat Metheny, the \in- defatigable, virtuoSo guitarist, multi-faceted composer, and guitar s;ynthesiser pioneer\ will be performing Friday., Febrl!B.ry 27 at tile Palace Theater at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are $12.50 and $14.50, they are available at all Ticketron- outlets, the Palace Box Office, Drome Sound, and the Music Shack (Troy). Call 465-4663 for more information, Alice in Wonderland Deller Consort Returns The Deller Consort will return to Memorial Chapel to give the next concert in the Musewn· College Concert Series on ·saturday, February 21 at 8 p.m. This vocal ensemble will per~ fOI'rn English and Italian madrigals, French and English ayres, as well as 2oth century English songs. The tickets for the Deller Consort are $8 for adtllts, FREE to Union students, and $4 for the other students. They can be pur- · chased at all CBO's, the Palace Theater, and from the Schenectady Museum. For m<Jre information call 372-3651. Natural Museum of Dance Seeks The Department of Arts at Union College wiD present an V OIUnteefS unusual interpretation of ''Alice in Wonderland\ as originally The National Museum of conceived by The Mahnattan Darice is looking for volunteer :Project. The production, assistance in: the entire spec- as de~cribed by Director Boone, trllill of activitie~ planned for is an ensemble production in the upcoming Grand Opening which the cast of eight works Season. The volunfeer ina with a minirnwn of props on an fo~mation meeting is scheduled almo:t bare stage. The per· · .for the alternate dates of: .formances will begin on Thtn'sday, February 19 at 10:30 . Tuesday, February 24, and will a.m. or Saturday, February 21 l'Wl 110ti1 Saturday, the 28th. at 10:30 a.m. For more in- Tickets are $5.00 for the general formation, call584-2225 or write public, but $3.00 .for students. to: Volunteers, National Reservations can be made by M11seum of Dance, South calling the Box Office at 37()... Br-oadway, Saratoga Springs, 6153 <lr 370-6003. NY 12866. - Cast of Alice in Wonderland ~~~t~~l~~~~AlN1Jsl!ll$'~bti1~·e ·$.)· at7 r~M.ittB16. ·&dl:'P.M .• · •. \># •¥• • ~,8\te~!S··} ~tllltt ~:m. Jn tlie Per .. .... _:-,.:_;.,. .. . . -~---. ~

Bruce Horns~by Conti11ued from page 14 he waste be in Albany because it was one of the .first cities to play bis music, Bruce sang \Mandolin Rain\ his current single. After a few more songs, in- cluding \The Red Plains\ the stage was deserted by everyone except Mr. Hornsby and the drummer. He started to play a long piano solo which ultimately turned into a musical battle with the drummer. During th.is 10 to 15 minute interval Bruce woW.d play a few chords that garnered cheers from members of the audience who recognized them. At last Bruce played the song everyone bad been waiting for-''The Way It Is\. This song was trttly the highlight of the show, providing the perfect vehicle for Mr. Hornsby's magnificant vocal and piano skills. After the song, the drurnrner came out to take a bow, giving the audience the biggest surprise of the evening._ it was Jack Nicholson. Mr. Nicholson (who is in Albany filming \Ironweed\) then spent the rest of the show watching from the audience. Bruce then got out his ac· cordian and explained that he thottght the instrument could find a place in the world of pop music. He proved this in \Wild Frontier\ a song written when he moved fro!Il his native Virginia to L.A., and the closing number \Western Skyline\. Coming back onstage for the encore \Somewhere Down the Road,\ Mr. Hornsby provided amusing anecdotes abeut his youth wyile his guitarist, George Marinelli, did an im- pressive impersonation of Jimi Hendrix. Before taking his final bow, Erttce thanked \y' all for being so nice to us.\ Unfortunately, the opening act, country singer Gary Chapman, bttt a damper on an otherwise perfect evening. When he talked about mothers making little kids eat everything on their plates then remarked ''the dessert is coming but for now think of me as brussel sprouts,\ the audience could tell he was going to be very bad. All his songs sounded the same, ex:cept the lyrics got more stupid as the evening progressed. Mr. Champan sunk to an all-time low with his rhinestone shirt and corny lyrics. By the time he left tlte stage, closing with the song \Gospel Ship\ the audience was rea.dy to shout- but only because he was leaving. Brllce Hornsby and the Range are consummate artists who truly deserve their current success, as the concert at the Palace proved-that's just the way it is, some things will never change. CONCORDJENSIS, February 19, 1987 Page 15 THE ARTS :Poet David St •. John Speaks in Humanities Lounge Arts Briefs Pat Metheny Deller Consort Returns :By MARJORIE HOFFER I toek my seat in the Humanities Lounge to hear this week's visiting poet, David St. John. The !Ilood of the evening w:asmellow. The author of titles such as Hush, The Shore and No Heaven, it is no surprise that his poems tread on a soft note. However, the poetry is hardly \airy\ in centent. It is deep, well-written, and rich with meaning. The lounge was filled for the session as David St. J olm read a variety of poems com- plemented with subtle gesticulations. He began with the poem \Iris\ which was an elegy to his grandmother, Vivien St. John. This poem was followed by \Hush\-the title poem St. John wrote about his son who he was separated from. An example of St. John's acute sensitivity is in this passage of \Hush\, \ ... Our letters-Close. Sometimes, you ask-About the world; sometimes, I answer back. Nights-Return you to me for a while, as sleep.,-· returns sleep-To a landscape ravaged- and familiar. The dark watermark of your absence, a hush.\ Though his poetry is predominantly serious, as, in fact, he noted that in his book, No Heaven, the poems are about figures on the margins trying to work their way back- he did change his pace when he read the \Kamasutra according to Fiat\. Naturally the poem elicited laughter as St. John described the passionate moments of Latin lovers in tiny fiats. One line from the poem gives the spirit, \A Fiat's micromcornpositions require the oddest positions.\ In bet- ween his recitatien, St. John left room for some witty remarks. It is clear that he is a brilliant poet and in tune with his audience. St. John has such a quiet manner that he cottld be telling us the world will self-destruct in three seconds, and nobody would panic. St. John is a graduate of the Writer's Woerkshop at the University of Iowa, and taught at Oberlin College. Now he is on staff at Johns Hopkins University. This was his second visit to Union in five years. One of ow· own professor's former professor, David St. Jolm also sat in on a Creative Writing II class th.at afternoon. His comments and advice were certainly appreciated by the students as he participated in a classroom critique of students' poetry. In fact, his entire visit was deemed a great success. Certainly well received by his audience that evening, especially after his final poem, \Man in the Yellow Gloves\ he probably would have left to a standing ovation-only he just was not the type of person you clap too loudly in front of. Pat Metheny, the \in· defatigable, virtuoso guitarist, multisfaceted composer, and guitar synthesiser pioneer\ wrll be performing Friday, February 27 at the Palace Theater at 8:00p.m. Tickets are $12.50 and $14.50, they are available at all Ticketron- outlets, the Palace Box Office, Drome Sound, and the Music Shack (Troy}. Call 465-4663 for more information, Alice in Wonderland The Department of Arts at Union College will present an unusual interpretation of ''Alice in Wonderland\ as originally conceived by The Mahnattan ·Project. The production, as described by Director Boone, is an ensemble production in which the cast of eight works with a minimum of props on an almost bare stage. The per- formances will begin on Tuesday, February 24, and will run until Saturday, the 28th. Tickets are $5.00 for the general public, but $3.00 for students. Reservations can be made by calling the Box Office at 37(). 6153 or 370-6003. The Deller Consort wili return te Memorial Chapel to give the next concert in the Museum- College Concert Series on Saturday, February 21 at 8 p.m. This vocal ensemble will per- form English and Italian madrigals, French and English ayres, as wen as 20th century English songs. The tickets for the Deller Consort are $8 for adults, FREE to Union students, and $4 for the other students. They can be pur- chased at all CBO's, the Palace Theater, and from the Schenectady Museum. For more information call 372-3651. Natural Museum of Dance Seeks Volunteers The National Museum of Dance is looking for volunteer assistance in the entire spec· trwn of activities planned for the upcoming Grand Opening Season. The volunteer in- formation meeting is scheduled for the alternate dates of: Thursday, February 19 at 10:30 a.m. or Saturday, February 21 at 10:30 a.m. For more in- formation, call 584-2225 or write to: Volunteers, National Museum of Dance, South Broadway, Saratoga Springs, NY 12866. DON'T MISS William Humphrey- Author of Hostages of Fortune On Thurs. Feb. 28, at 3:30 & 8 p.m. in Humanities Lounge Congratulations to the winners of last Thursday's Pa11hellenic Cabaret 1st Place: Dave Provost Sean Connelly 2ntl Place: Feb. 19 On Campus: Off Campus: Feb. 20 On Campus: Off Campus: Feb. 21 On Campus: Cast of AI ice in Wonderland Arts Happenings Cabaretat8:30~10P.M. in The Pub II. The Guilded Age: A Mark Twain play at 1 P.M. at Proctors. Movie Top Gun at 7;9,& 11 P.M. in SS616 this weekend. Festival on ice at8P.M. at Proctors this wrekend. The Deller Consort at 8 P.M. in !\{ernorial Chapel. For information call 377:-3651 evenings. . · Movie: TopGunat7,9,&11inSS016. Festivalon1ceat8P.M. at Proctors. Corey Steinberg Robert Mazow Feh. 22 (}'Jl Campus: Choir Winter Concert at 3 P.M. in Memorial Chapel. 3rd Place: Andrew Gonzalez Movie: TopGun at7,9, &11 in SStl16. Oil Campus: Bucket Dance Theatre at 2P.M. at the Egg. Festival on Ice at 2and 8 P.M. at Proctors. \ Feb.230nCampus: Movie: YoungTurless (German w/EnglishsubtiUes) at7P.M. inSS016. Feb. 24 On Campus: Movie: Midsununer Night 1 s Sex Comedy at 8016 7, 9, & 11 P.M ... Play Alice in W onderll.lnd at 8 P.M. in theN ott, thru the 28th~ .. 'Kings are white, Queens are red, when the Queen sees you, \Off with your Head!\ Feb. 25 On Campus: Feb. 26 Off Campus: Feb~ Z7 On Campus: Play Alice in Wonderland at 8 P.M. in the Nott. Ballet: Ohio Balletat3 P.M. at Proctor's. Movie: Death Race 2000 at 7:30..10 P.M. in SS016 thru weekend. Movie: Road Warrior at8:20 & 11:20 P.M. in SSOl6 thru weekend. Tradition of Improvisation Series at 7:30P.M. in Arts.Stu<UQ. Play: B.L.A.S. at 7 :'30 P.M. in the Memorial Chapel. Go See ALICEI ~ One Week Only! February 24-28, 1987 at 8 p.m. N,ott Memorial Theatre $3.00 Students $4.00 Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission Off Campus: Feb.~ on Campus: March 2 On Campus: March 30n Campus: Muclt $On Campus: Concert: Pat Metheny Group at 8 P.M. at the Palace Tlleatre. For tickets ca11465-4663. Speaker: Mar~aret Avery at 8 P.M. in Rm3510, Sage Building, R.P.I. Movie: Death Race 2(10()at 7:30, 1() P.M. inSSQ16. Movie; Road Warrior at 8: 20., 11:20 P.M. inSS016. Play: Alice in Wonderland at8P.M. in The Nott. Concert: Chuck Mangione at 8 P~M. at tl:te Egg. Dance Ensemble presents: Pieces in Progress, 8:15 p.m. in the Per- formingArts Studio. Movie: The Hustler at 7:30:& 10 P.M. atSSG16. Concert: Polish Chamber Philharmonic Orchestra at 8 P.M. at Memorial Chapel. · ..

Page 16 1987 INTERNSHIPS & FELLOWSHIPS Information on these and all other internships and fellowships are available in the Internship-Fellowship notelr ooks in the CDC library. Grey Direct is offering an 6 w~ek summer internship in d1rect marketing. Direct marketing is a system of marketing directly to the cons~er . using a variety of media with the ability to measure the results. THIS IS FOR SENIORS ONLY. For more information contact the CDC library. . Donnelly Directory has a summer intern program for students C(}mpleting their junior year. The program offers an opportWlity for interns to learn a.bout the Sales and Marketing f1elds. For more information contact the CDC. Skaddeo, Arps, Slate, Meagher, & Flom is offering a ne~ Legal Intern Program. Th1s program allows the intern to gain practical work ex- perience and to gain exposure to the practice of law. For more information contact the CDC. ~redo State University has a umque master's degree program in the field .of Inter- national Trade. Qualified students act as a research assistant-fellow for in- ternational trade related projects. DEADUNE: Fal11987 May 1-8pring 1988-September 23, 1987. For more information contact the CDC. Greenwich Academy has available teaching fellowships ~or the 1987-88 school year. The Intern teaching fellow par• ticipates in all aspects- of c~assr?Om activity Wlder the directwn of an experienced · educator. For more information contact the CDC. Kingswood..OXford School has a teaching fellowship program available~ This program allows the fellow to carry two classes of their own while working with a master teacher, coach in each of three seasons, and gain· a general knowledge of school responsibilities. For more in- formation contact the CDC. Saint Louis University offers. opportunities in · graduate- . assistantships, research assistantships, traineeships and f~llowships in a wide variety of f1elds. For more information contact the CDC. Rippowam Cisqua School has a teaching fellowship available which allows the fellow to learn about all aspects of an in· dependent elementary school from firsthand experience Wider a master teacher to . weekly educational seminars. For more information contact the CDC. National College internship Service, Inc. is now accepting applications for Summer 1987 Internship$~ Interns will earn superVised work experience in their major. For more in~ · formation contact the CDC. . Northwestern Mutual Life College Agent Program allows the opportunity to.mix. business md academic activities. The program enables students to gain . both. k~owledge and pract1cal skills m selected areas of study. For more intormation contact the CDC. · SCHOLARSHIPS The Women's Press .. Club of ~ew York State, Inc. annomces Its annual scholarship com- peti~ioJJ. for a $750 scholarship for students who wish to resume ~Udies in the conununications fteld. bu~ Wh? are unable to Qbta!Jl fmancial suppl}rt. The appltcation deadlin~ is Mareh 17, 1987. Applicants mllSt ·be New York State residents enrolled in an area com• manications or related P!()gram. Preference will be g1ven to women. Contact Ruth Facher Mendel Vice President, Women's Pres~ Club, Box 13943. Alban~,. NY ~2212-349~ for applications and mfonnatlon. · Announcing - The Thomas F. Pur.ner, Jr. Scholarship. Jllluors who are planning to pursue the five-year combined . deg~ee program with the Institute of Admini:ltratbn and Management (lAM) are eligible for. $8,000 in scholarship asststance through the Purner Scholarship-Fellowship. The award in senior year is $3 000 . .(based on financial neecl:) ~nd will continue as a $5 000 . fenow~hip in the 5th year; If'you are thinking about staying the e:xtra year to complete a Master's degree, :ptease contact Prof. Arnold in Bailey Hall ( x 6237) before the end of Winter tenn, for further information. CLUBNE.WS Ne'Will~UI Club will note meet Monday, February · 23 due to · program on next evening. . Interfaith Dialogite -Tuesday, February 24, at 7 :30 p.m. in Fox LoWlge. There will be the . ~.econd · of these . dialogues Contemporary Ethical Issues · · with Religious implications.\ A . list ·of ethical issues include+ Sexuality, abortion-birth · c~ntrol, euthanasia, nuclear ?tsarm~ent. US foreign policy tssues· ( a1d to Contras ), etc. Guests . .for this program in- elude: Rabbi Beverly Magidson {C_ongregation Beth-Sltalom, Clifton Park); Fr. Dominic Ingemie (St. Anthony's, Schenectady), and Rev. Al :Smith (First Reformed Schenectady). ' Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of.the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy at St. John's may meet with Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Overnight Retreat-.Resc- heduled to 5 p.m., Friday February 20, until 5 p.m: Saturday, February 21, at 1630 Nott ~treet. Theme: Trust. .. Do~atlon . of $5. when you register wtth 'Sr. Joan. Tutorial Program-,-Union College students are needed in. the following areas at St. John the EvangeliSt School: Kin- d~rgarten, Computer and Math Ai<les and Math & Reading on a PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz ~~~ ik .fW. !YGW AWMN( Bf,._. ['WI fY-€IiY t~fl'i by -+htf> pbKe Ow 1 1 jv~t Sf'e g,we· lDs - ot-t ~if I rt>ag~i're yov f'WO - 80 Ol-1ln . ( , ... ~-:-;/ 0~ .. . ------------- .... one to one. Plea~e contact Li8a 'Mercugliano, Fox 2$2~ 28&.4183. Sliut-Ins~Any Union College student who wishes to visit a shuMn ·of St. John the Ev~ngeliSt Parish on a regUlar bas~s during these long winter . . months, pleas~ contact Mark Slaga, South 102, 38Ei-4480. .conUrmation-:-April 26 Bishop Howard Hubbard wUl administer the Sacr;m1ent of Confirmation in St. John the Evangelist Church. Union College students are invited too. Contact Sr • .]'oan. · CLASSIFIEDS .. Kenya Bags and g.irl'·s sweaters at cost. can Neil370- 0929. ' . · Professional Typist will type on weekends . -: term papers, resumes, theses, etc. Call 399- 4656. . . . MISSlN~ DOG -(T~esday mght). Betge; medium ·size, yellow lab, curl tail sand colored collar, named Thor . PLEASE CALL 386-4339. The film conunittee presents: Feb. 20-22, TOP GUN at 7 . 9 and 11. · · · ' ' _Feb. 24, A Midsummer's Night Sex Comedy at 7, 9, and 11. .. Ticket~ are available· at Old Chapel for. $1. ' . .GERMAN 'lANGUAGE TABLE every Friday 12:30- 1:30 p.m., ' Hale House . '.<·

. \ . . ''.- ·~.~ ~ CONCORDIENSJS, Fehruary19, 1987 Page 17 PERSONALS Room 151 What does this country need? .. .' .· ~ . Barb & Elaine: Thanks for all the 1411, . leaQ.ership and laughteJ.I. We'll miss you neJtt year.D;>n't forget to beware of . all OS's. -The Team Delta Gamma Pledges, Keep u.p the good work! You're the greatest! Love, Jean ---~-'-\-'-~----Z---im · Pledges- Next week we'll be serving Kristen, I never knew sleeping on tpe floor with a telephone receiver could be comfo\rtable! . HW Michele, DD you want hi.:til big big BIG ..... Loveyrman Thanks for the flower Kelley! ! Are we even now or do we start all over aga~? Love, Lisa 'Quote of upcoming Spring Break: \Yo if you can't have .fun in Barbad'os, there is . something wrong with you!'' 4 more, hang in there guys l Micl'lele, thanks for -the can- dygram - . you're a great suit- mate too! Love, Lisa M.V.P. & Moart, What! A pre- spring brea~ in Scarsdale? is that possible? . Only if Moart can direct us to the cool places -A.B. · live Maine LOBSTER. .. Good . · Luck! Happy birthday Drena and Chrissy. Love,. the Sisters of SPARICY :. Thanks for the candy · De.lta Gamma but I was expecting dinner. ~-.,...--~---- Love, D Delta Gamma Pledges, --------- Thank you. Annemarie thinks she is a. masterkey. Do you agree? Send . all replies to her at box 1573. sw~ I fol).Ild a finge.rnail in my lasagna ... thought it might be yours! Lisa 0; I had. a personal for you, but , · \I'm not teUing!\ . Greg, Thanks for the talk on Sat. night. · Pledge L.andslide The Sisters Hey Mayor - Have you been taldng any bribes from Sig Chi lately??? · Jen Dilorio, Hey where you been- it's nearlytwo days since your last visit ~ love, the 'Death to M~ Ciub' -M&M To the Chicago Connection- If you really want to know how much Michele weighs we'll tell for a dollar-each! Mary & Michele · Desperately seeking a not so NJB to act as formal date. Imposing yet not .intimidating stature· required. Computer science majors need not apply. Please send a recent snapahot or· relatively accurate sketch t-o • Ken, Last Tuesday was really • kinky! Shaving cream, tooth- paste, telephone booths! What's next?!? -The Two who are to · blatne! · box 1402. Address all inquiries · Box 91-You are the beans . to Monique. Love '805 Gamma Phi pledges, get psyched for your first formal! We are gladto have you with us - in PKE,. tbe sisters M&G -· Westerners sure know how to celebrate Valentine's Day. Jill & Cathy- Micky - Thanx for the valen- Thank you for tin~! I don't think you're a snob, neighbors, because I saw Phil Monday ' being my night. · Love,Marj Jill · H;T,- You easy-sleaze, Rita -'-----'----~~-~ tole me all . Congratulations Sue and · Freddy, the Sisters of Delta Gamma · Ramon!! Ramon!! Ramon!! Ramon!! RRRRamon, . Nice dance moves - can you get a little closer? Love, Jill Looks like an insurmountable 11 pt. lead. Go Zebes. U.C. Track Team: One month left; then rum, rum here we come! · John D. Roses are red, violets are blue, thanks .for the valentines, hope you had fun too! -L.L. Seeking Secreat Valentine-- , HDw long HAS it been??? Next tiine we'll have to bring a bottle ()f GREASE REUEF for yo11. -The sisters Ganuna Phi Sisters get psyched • for the formal! Karen & Maia Shelly-Do you still love me!? To Delta Delta Delta Pledges, Just remember!. I sleep w- more than 120 eyes open! When you lea.st expect it ... expect it! Pam Andre!l's a Munchkin! Winnerof- '. For The \Chi Published I~ Last Week's Coneordiensis Jackie, get psyched for this • weekend. You'll have a blast. · Can't wait to patty together. Love, in PKE . Karen MARNIE-Little siSter be stire · to have a good time this weekend! I'm psyched that we're going to party together. LoveinPKE Maia Hilary: I can't do this because my toes hurt.\ Love-Kim Amy, Saturday night was ~azing. Thanks for the BEST Valentine's Day I have ever had. But seriously, how come the champagne went to your head? Love always, Rob Get ready for another balloon kinda weekend! Lov-e, Fifi M: Wby does the manhole steam all the time? 1).: It's just typically Union!! Delta love, An~ea To my favorite TEASE: Thanks for taking the time to cheer rne up - it really meant a lot. Besides, I'd rather be teased than sad any day! AEROBICS - Where: Dance Studio Arts Bldg. When: Monday and Thursday 7:00 Friday and Saturday 4:00 ALL ARE WELCOME Woiilan' s Week Is ·Coming Soon . . . . Design The T -Shirt And Win »BIG PRIZES!!! +c Tum In Ideas To Student Activities Office (Ptizes To Be AnnC?unced) .... ' '

. Page 18 AT LAST! Last Saturday the Alumni Gym Complex opened up and none too soon. The Men's and Women's swim team can now relax and train in thei:r own pool. Stay tuned for the uhorror\ story that the members of the team went through without a pool of their own to pracHce in. Dutchmen Hoops ••• also leads the team ill rebounding at a 8.0 rpg .clip. Doug Gregory (5.2 rpg) and Neil Winawer (5.1 rpg) follow Fox ... Tom Beck is averaging 6.5 assists per game and as of Monday night is currently 21() assists away from the school record ... Kurt Fox is only 161 points from 1,000 career points . . . In 21 games thus far this season, Fox has been the leading scorer in 11 games and the leading rebounder in 13 games . . . With the win over Binghamton on Monday night, Union and Coach Bill Scanlon were . assured of their 8th straight non-losing seasons . . . The win over Binghamton alsl) marked the first time since the 1982-83 NCAAabound team that a Dutchmen basketball team has finished at or above the .500 mark on the road- Union is 4-4 in road contests. Continued from page 19 hit two free throws with 0:45 remaining. Binghamton charged right back with two 3- pointers ar1d a four-point play to close to within 81-73 with 9:19 left. This was too little, too late as the Dutchmen posted an 84-73 win. Kurt Fmt's 24 points and 8 rebounds led Union. Tom Beck added 15 points and 9 assists for the winnel's, while Doug Gregory . and Neil Winawer chipped in 12 points and 6 rebounds and 11 points and 12 rebounds respectively. DUTCHMEN NO'I'ES • . . . . Kurt Fox leads Union in scoring, averaging 17.6 ppg. He is followed by Joe Romer 12.5 ppg, Tom Beck ll.!l ppg and Neil Winawer 11.6 ppg ... Fox 1986-87 Union College Basketball Statistics Player G fG FGA FGS 3Pt FT FTA FT% Reb Of /De AS TO 81( ST PT AYG 131 Kurt fox J.-. F 21 1es 318 51.9 l-~ 38 IZ~ Joe Ro•er Jr. F 21 106 200 53.0 1-2 49 flO To• Beck Jr. 6 21 90 186 -48.4 39-80 31 UJ Nell W1na.,er Sr. f 20 87 167 S2..1 1 -· 132 Doug G•egory So. F 21 83 163 50.9 0-0 HO ~en l~vi ne Sr. G 21 4.1 Ill 38.~ 3-7 fl!i llark Jr.ude& U Fr. l3 6 18 33.3 1 -~ llZ St~ve DeBolso Jr. G 18 H 38 36.8 •0-2 120 See t t Gtbb1 Se>. G 19 18 53 33.9 1-10 112 Jo~ Mop~ione So. 11 3 10 30 •. 0 0-0 IZJ Joe Scott 9 So. f 5 20-0 0. 1 113 Mike .\ritli Fr. G 57 35 24 F 18 11 4 c 2 65 50. 5 168 51/117 39 44 20 34 369 17.~ 67 73.1 96 36/58 37 36 2 Is 262 12.s 38 81.6 60 19/41 136 69 4 32 250 11.51 16 75.0 107 50/53 39 37 1 41 232 11.6- 55 63. 6 110 39/71 zs 21 u zo zor 9.& 29 82.7 46 8/38 76 2j z Z7 113 5.4 24 75. 0 7 5/ 2 8 12 z 5 31 2. 4 25 44,0 32 13/19 10 9 3 I 39 2.2 6 66. 7 18 7111 10 1 3 z l 44 2. 3 3 66, 6 1/ 4 5 3 0 2 8 0.7 1 n. 4 3 11 2 1 1 0 0 7 0,.7 6 0 0 00.0 0-0 l 3 66.6 5 1/ 4 0 1 0 0 2 o. 3 z 8 0 5 30 5. 0 144 Sr~ce Witherspoon •. ·s 13 31 41.9 o.o 4 n 30.7 16 91 1 fll Rob P&re~to * 5 1 27 25.9 0-0 0 0 00.0 6 3/ 3 5 1 1 I 14 z. 6 \Just because they have played mote dO<\..sn't mean they should not be allowed to represent their COI.Ultries. lt's a job for them, just like anyone else and they should be allowed to compete because they are the best in their sport. •• Brian Moss '90. \The Olympics are sup- posed to represent the best athletes in ourcountry. If they are the best, then they should be allowed to compete.\ Mary Sullivan '88. Division. II West Plattsburgh ~amilton Oswego RIT Elmira Can~sius Geneseo Potsdam · Union -Brockport Mobart Cortland St. Bona Buffelcl WLTPet 21 il 0 .955 13 t 0 .765 18 I 0 .692 12 6 0 .667 13 r o .650 13 9 0 .591 15 12 0 .556 11 14 0 .440 • 11 •• 405 ll21 . .0S I 14 0 .36-4 t ll 0 .334 1 7 0 .12S 2 II 1 .119 O~traH 26 so IS S 0 18 8 0 15 11 0 14 7 0 ~ 10 0 18 15 0 ll 16 0 • 14 0 10 13 1 ' 140 8 16 0 15 10 0 s 11 1 Union Hockey R«:ord a.n ECAC, .. 14 tvtrall Sctriltl GmGATP Nelson !aid 21 11 !0 31 G~ry Temu$11 2·1 19 9 28 Duane Joyce 22 io 1~ 26 Scott Cyr 21 t 8 17 D~ve Appleby 11 3 13 16 Marc Goguen 22 ~ 11 15 Chris Huntington 21 .6 6 12 Dan Gould 22 3 1 10 Guy Logan 18 ~ 5 9 Darrell Gustafson 22 3 6 9 Scott Manley 22 ,j, 5 9 Nick Baratcff 21 2 ~ 6 Darren Stepn.ns ll 2 3 5 Pete Colier 15 C 5 S Keith Robertson 22 1 3 4 Todd Rutledge 10 1 2 l Joel Berard 16 1 2 3 Ron Kinghorn 12 G 3 3 . Sean Norton 20 0 1 1 Rick Rotklltt 5 1 fJ 1 Bill Snow 17 1 fJ 1 Chip Holm.s 1 ~ 0 0 Mark Pompeo 2 G 0 0 Mike Raymond I 0 Cl 0 Phil Mad.aughllrt I 0 0 0 Jim MacLaughll\ 3 0 0 0 John Nolan l G 0 · ·0 Toby O'Britfl 12 .0 ~ 0 Terry Rlthwell 2 0 0 0 O'Brien ICinghorn Rathw.ll GN~tftdll'lt . Gm Min Sv GA GAA n 6-41 l4l 4\1 .a.40 12 555 251 45 U6 2 120 5I 12 6.00 ' SUPPORT u:NION SPORTS \No I don't think tlley should, because the Olympics should be for amateurs, bmt it woUld be fun to see our pros compete against the best of other nations.\ Keun.y Levine '87. Senior Skating DutchmenAppreciat No. 16 Dave Appleby- Co-captain Gms Gls Assts Pts. 31 1 19 ~0 3.1 2 10 •1Z 29 7 13 20 18 3 13 !6 1M 13 55 48 . *2 games remaining No.4 Duane Joyce GtllS Gls Assts p.fs. 83-84 20 .2 1 3 84-85 31 5 n 16 8H6 29 ]j 1'4 27 86-87* 22 JO 16 26 T()fillS 102 30 42 72 *Two·game!S remC~ining UNION64 UNION72 UNION84 UNION 35 UNION 55 UNION 51 UNION44 UNION 1 UNIONS Gavin Morton After two seasons of solid defensive hockey for the Dutchmen· and chronic knee pr:'oblems, Gavin has retired to the press box wherehe,calls the play by play for WRUC and Con- cordiensis. SCOREBOARD Tuesday 2/10- Monday 2/16 MEN'S BASKETBALL Hartwick63 Albany76 Binghamton 73 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL HOCKEY HartWick 56 Russell Sage 38 St. Rose56 R.P.i.55 Hamilton 4 North Ada.rris 3 SPORTS TALK Interviews and photos by Jay M. Grossman 11 Do you think that the In- ternational Olympic Committee should allow professional athletes such as John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors. Wayne ,Gretzky, and Patrick Ewing?\ :l ·~ l

. Page IS CONCORDIENSIS, Febrnary 19, 1987 AT LAST! Last Saturday the Alumni Gym Complex opened up· and none too !i()On. The Men's and Women's swim team can now relax and train in their own pool. Stay tuned for the \horror\ story that the me rnbers of the team went through without a pool of their own to practice in. 0 - 0 -g_ - .. • , '}J('i8it1;g,;;:~;''l:1''\i:;·.•t Dutcllmen Hoops ••• Continuecl fr~m page 19 hit two fr-ee throws with 0:45 remaining. Binghamton charged rigllt back with two 3- pointers and a four-point play to close to vwithin 81-73 with 9: 19 left. This 'iiVas too little, too late as the Dutclunen posted an 84-73 win. Kurt F<lx's 24 points and 8 rebounds led Union. Tom Beck added 15- !)Oints and 9 assists for the win11ers, while Doug Gregory and Neil Winawer chipped i..n 12 points and 6 rebounds and 11 points and 12 rebounds Tespectively. DUTCHl\tEN NOTES . . . . . Kurt F'o::x leads Union in scoring, averaging 17.6 ppg. He is followed by Joe Romer 12.5 ppg, Tom Beck 11.9 ppg and Neil Wina-wer 11.6 ppg ... Fox also leads the team in rebounding at a 8.0 rpg clip. Dflug Gregory ( 5.2 rpg) and Neil Winawer (5.1 rpg) follow Fox ... Tom Beck is averaging 6. 5 assists per game and as of Monday night is currently 210 assists away from the school record ... Kurt Fox is only 161 points from 1,000 career points . . . In 21 games thus far this season, Fox has been the leading scorer in 11 games and the leading reboWlder in 13 games . . . With the win over Binghamton on Monday night, Union and Coach Bill Scanlon were assured of their 8th straight non-losing seasons . . . The win over Binghamton also marked the first time since the 1982-83 I\rCAA-bound team that a Dutchmen basketball team has finished at or above the .500 mark on the road- Union is 4-4 in road contests. 1986-87 Union College Basketball Statistics :11 G•ue Totals Player G fG FGA FGS 3Pt FT FTA fTS Reb Of /Oe AS TO BK ST PT AVG I 31 Kurt fo• Jr. F 1D l6~ 318 ~1.9 I -4 38 124 Jo~ ~ o•tr- Jr. F H I 06 ?00 53.0 1 -1 ~9 iiO To,. IJec t Jr. G 21 90 186 48. 4 39-80 31 Ill N•l1 w.1 na,.er Sr. p 11lo 87 157 52. 1 I -4 57 131 Ooug Gre~ory So. F 2\1 83 163 50. 9 0-0 35 HO Ken L e. ln< Sr. G 1 I 43 I 11 38. 4 3-7 14 115 M•rt Jr ud tau f r. F I 3 6 I 8 3 3. 3 I -4 18 Ill St.,,• 0 e!also Jr. G I 8 14 38 36.8 0 -1 II 110 S<ott G 1t>b• So. G I 9 18 53 33.9 4-10 4 111 Jon\ •P ~tone So. c 11 3 10 30.0 0-0 1 I?J Jo• \ott So. f 9 s 10.0 0- I Ill Mike Ar 1•ta fr, G () 0 0 00.0 0·0 ft4 8P'I.Ht w Htl~rspoon . ~ l) 3 l 4 I. 9 0. 0 I 11 Rob Partnto I 7 u 15.9 0-0 •no longer on !hP tPOJO \Just because they have played more doesn't mean they shollld not be allowed to represertt their countries. It's a job for them, just like anyone~ lse and they should be allowed .to compete because they ate the best in their sport., llriaD Moss '00. 65 67 38 76 55 19 14 15 6 3 I J I J 0 51!.~ 168 51/117 39 44 20 34 369 17.5 13. I 96 36/58 3 7 36 z 15 261 12. 5 81.6 60 19/41 136 69 4 32 250 11.9 15.0 107 50/53 39 31 I 41 232 11.6 63.6 110 39/71 15 21 H 20 201 9.6 82. 7 46 8/38 16 23 z 27 113 5. 4 75.0 7 5/ 2 B 1 1 2 5 31 2.4 44.0 )2 IJ/19 10 9 3 1 39 2.2 66. 7 18 1 til I 0 1 3 2 l 44 2.3 61>.6 1/ • 5 J 0 1 B 0.7 7l. 4 1/ 2 I 1 0 0 1 0. 7 66.6 s 1/ 4 0 I 0 0 2 0. 3 JO 7 16 91 7 2 8 0 ! 30 s.o 00.0 6 3/ l s 1 I I 14 1.8 \The Olympics are sup- posed to represent the best athletes in our country. If they are the best, then they should be allowed to compete.\ Mary Sullivan '88. Division II West P lattsbvrgh .-lam !It on Oswego RIT Elmira Can~~ius Geneseo Potsdam Union -Brockport Hobart Cortlartd St. 8or1e Buffelo WLTPcf 21 I 0 .955 13 ~ 0 .765 18 8 0 .69'2 12 ' 0 .667 13 7 0 .650 13 9 0 .591 15 12 0 .S56 11 1<4 0 -~ I 11 0 .41l5 • 12 1 .-'OS I 14 0 .J6.1 , ll 0 ,JJ;.t 1 7 0 .12S 2111.119 Ov.raH 26 5 0 15 5 0 18 8 0 15 11 0 14 7 0 20 10 0 18 15 0 11 16 0 8 14 0 10 13 I 9 14 0 8 16 0 IS 10 0 s 18 1 Union Hockey Record a-11 ICAC. 1-14 .veraH kerlnt Gm Nelson Said 21 Gary T&muUI 21 Duane Joyce 22 Scott Cyr 21 Dave Appleby 13 Marc Goguen 22 ChrisHuntington 21 Dan Gould 22 Guy Logan 18 Darrtll Gustafson 22 Scott Man ley 22 Nick Baratoff 21 Darren Stephens 11 Pete Colier 15 Keith Robertson 22 Todd li!utledge 10 Joel Ber11rd 1o Ron Kinghorn 12 Sean Norton 20 Rick Rockett 5 Bill Snow 17 Chip Holmes 1 Mark Pompeo 2 Mike h)'mond 1 Phil M&ct.aughlin 1 Jim MacLaughlin 3 John Nolan 1 Toby O'Brien 12 Terry Ratl'lwell 2 Geatttndlq G A Tfl 11 20 31 19 9 21 10 16 26 9 8 17 3 13 16 ~ 11 15 6 6 12 3 7 10 • 5 9 3 6 9 • 5 9 2 .. 6 2 3 s 0 s s 1 3 4 1 2 J 1 2 3 0 J 3 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 O'Bnen Kinghorn Rathwell Gm Min Sv GA GAA 12 ~~ 344 •1 HO 12 SSS 251 45 U6 2 120 Sl 12 6.00 SUPPORT UNION SPORTS \No I don't think they should, because the Olympics should be for amateurs, but it would be fun to see our pros compete against the best of other nations.\ Kenny Levine '87. Qtnnrnrhiensis .SPORTS Senior Skating DutcbmeoApprecia No. 16 Dave Appleby- Co-captain Gms Gls Assts Pts. 31 1 19 20 31 2 10 12 29 7 13 20 18 3 13 16 109 13 55 68 *2 games remainir:~g No.4 Duane Joyce Gms Gls Assts Pts, 83·84 20 2 1 3 84 85 31 5 11 16 85-86 29 13 14 27 86-87* 22 10 16 26 Totals 102 30 42 72 *Twog.ames rer:n.aining UN ION 64 UNION 72 UNION 84 UNION 35 UNION 55 UNION 51 UNION 44 UNION 1 UNION 5 Gavin Morton After two seasons of solid defensive hockey for the Dutchmen and chronic knee problems, Gavin has retired to the press box where he calls the play by play for WRUC and Con- cordiensis. SCO~R EBOARD Tuesday 2/10- Monday 2/16 MEN'S BASKETBALL Hartwick 63 Albany 76 Binghamton 73 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL HOCKEY ' -:~:_;' Hartwick 56 Russell Sage 38 St. Rose 56 R.P.I. 55 Hamilton 4 North Adams 3 ,. F. fi: I !-h: R.y I\J/I'tt\ Menls Sasketbatt vs .. C~~s;n MJ 8:00 .6:0!) 6:00 , J. V. BaSketbaU vs. st. Rose Women's &ask~tbalt afRoch~ster Tourney Women's Swimming/State meet atRPI Woments Track/state m~et at Ham Hton SATtJRDA Y 2/21 No events scheduled MOMDAY2/23 1'-Jo events scheauted TUESDAY 2/24 Men's Basketball vs. Norwich HQckey at Middlebury WEDNESDAY 2/25 l\la events scheduled 8:00 7:30 SPORTSTALK Intenriews and photos by Jay M. Grossman 11 Do you th itnk that the In- ternational Olympic Committee should allow professional athletes such as John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors, Wayne Gretzky, and Patrick Ewing?''' . ' ti H ! ~ .I \ ' !I r: ·' ! ' '. '' '. .. '

CONCORDJENSIS; February 19, 1987.. Page i9. ByDOUGLASLLOYD Junior tri-Captain Colleen Dundon of the women's basketball team bas been chosen for this week's 1 ' Athlete of the Week''. Colleeil's talents . on the hoops courthave brought the women to a fine 9;..11 seasQn thus far, givi,Dg them a good bid at achieving :wins in the double figures for just the third time in their history. Colleen, the 3-year starting forward, leads the team .in points scQted and is currently second in rebol)nds. Although the team. finished fQUrth in the Capital District tournament, Colle~n was -selected· to the AU·Tourney team for her efforts. Colleen amassed 22 points to lead the Anderson Stars .In Track Colleen Dundon Dutchmen in scoring over the weekend and help Secure herself a ·spot on the All· Tourney team. Besides averaging 6.8 rpg., Colleen has added 11.6 ppg. to lead the team H'OO:pS ••• Continued from page 20 five pomts, 65-60, when Tom Beck converted a three point play with 7:39 showing on the . clock. Union puned to within · two points, 71-69, on Beck's 3- .point field goal with 2: 02 left to play. After a Mike Cinque basket and a free throw from Doug Gregol,\y Union crept to within one point, 73-72, ona Ken Levine running jumpshot with 0: 56 remaining, But three straight Albany State foul shots finished the scoring, as the Dutchmen were dealt only their third home loss of the season, 76-72. Tom Beck led Union with 16 points and 7 assists. Joe · Romer with 14 points, Dottg Gregory with 13 points and 6 rebOunds and Kurt Fox with 10 points all followed Beck. with 197 points scored tbrough 17 games this season. The team's ·success this year was not expected as nine of tbe 13. players are freshmen and only two are seniors. H ·Colleen keeps a hot hand and the un- d~rcl@ssmen continue to play good ball, coach Bonnie Gehling might have a contender on her bands for next year and even possibly; something of the dynasty that coach Bob Magee of the men's soccer team en- joyed for the past four ·years. Colleen, a sister of Delta Gamma, has also earned varsity letters in both soccer and softball. C(>ng1·atulations to Colleen on her team-leading statistics and on the team's success this season. Monday night,\ Union visited Binghamton in what was ex- pected to be a tough contest. This was not the case, though, as the Dutchmen got off to an uncharacteristically fast start anq went on to post an 84--73 victory. Aided by four Kurt Fox baskets and six points from Tom Beck, Union got off to a 16- 41ead. The Dutchmen extended this gap to 20 points, 30-10; after Joe Romer'.s short jumpshot at the 9:p7 mark. They maintained this advantage throughout the rest of the rest of the half, due in part to 58 .percent shootirig from the field. As the teams headed for the lockerrooms at halftime, Union led 47-29; The second half started off looking like a carbon copy of the first. Union led by 20 points for the initialll minutes of the new period. When Steve DeBalso hit The Union women's track team used a healthy 111U of experience and youth last Wednesday night as it hosted its own invitational. Tile Lady Dutchmen placed third out of · nine teams, behind two v~ry strong teams, Williams College and . Alb~y State. William~ defended its 1986 championship With 142 points, topping Albany's 106 and Union's 82, and finishing well ahead of Dynamite Track Club's 24. Veter;ans Lorie Anderson, Julie ' Halpern and Jen Lee provided Skat •• ng D tch m· e· n· the bulk of the scoring for the . . • · · •. .· · · U · · · • • • women, but freshmen Claire . ContinuedfrompagezO · goaltender Brian Dickenson Gilbert•Lytle and Sbirley Cagle · through thick and thin were with a low hard shot to the short used their performances. to · Duane Joyce and David side. Although the Dutchmen show that women's track will be Appleby. They received well badly outshot North Adams 16 a force in years to come. · · deserved. ovations. All eight to 7 in the first period, Anderson had another busy · di d k . day, as she racked up 8 first m vi uals were than ed for Dickenson looked sharp while place in the longjump(15 feet 3 their dedication to Union O'Brien didn't and the period incbe:;;). seconds in the high . College Hockey. ended with the score knotted 1- , 1 After all the ceremonies wete 1. j:ump ( 4 feet 0 inches) and trip e over, the game started on a The Dutchmen drew first j~p (31 feet 64 3 inches), 'a down note with Ron Pasic of blood in the second period, third in the shot JlUt (7 .33 meters), and a sixth in the 50 No~ Adams scoring on. a weak taking advantage of two power meter hurdles (9.2 seconds). .shot through the legs of play opportunities. Holding a Halpern added four fourth place goaltender Toby O'Brien at 4:07 five on three man advantage, finishes, as she put the $hot 7.10 of the first peri() d. r . Darren Stephens received a meters, and then ran times of Scott Cyr tied it tip at 9:13 of nice pass from Dan Gould and 8.7 seconds in the 50 meter the period after be intercepted a banged it in to give the Out- hurdles, 7.4 seconds in the 50 pass, stepped aroUnd a cbmen a 2-llead at 3:11. meter dash, and 29.0 seconds in . defenseman and beat Only 50 seconds later with the 200 meters. Lee ran legs on· both the mile and two-mile relay teams, and finished fifth in a very strong field in the 800 meters as she ran 2:3().4. Lytle, in her first year ever of running, sped to a school record of 63.9 seconds in the 400 meters, as she took third place in that event. She followed up that perfQ:nnance with another unofficial 63 second timing in the 1600 meter relay, leading that team to a third place time of 4:26.5. Cagle provided the Lady DUtchmen with t!J.eir only other first place, as she won the high jump with a vaUlt of 4 feet. Also putting in an outstanding performance was the two rriile relay, which shattered the school record by five seconds. The relay team of Lee, Sherry Cargile, Amy Petri and Nora Tuthill clocked a time of 10:30.4: to finish a close third behind the Williarp.s and Albany teams. The women's next race will be the state meet in two weeks, while the men's team travels to West Point on Sunday to compete in the MAC cham• pionships. Phi Gamma Delta to hold Ninth Annual Basketball Marathon Phi Gamma Delta will hold its Hanaway, and David Nowak, Ninth Annual 24-Hour Cotu1ty Board Representative Basketball Ma~athon on Margaret Buhrmaster, and February 27 and 28 in the Union District Attorney John Poersch. College F-ieldhouse. Through This team will take on the Phi the efforts of local celebriti~s Gam brothers at 12 noon on and Union students, funds will Friday for th.e opening tip-off. be raised for Schenectady Local radio and, television County for the Missing stations will compete, as well as Children•Cornmunity Alert .. a contest between Schenectady Network (CAN). The event will police ~d fir~ departn.t~nts. run from noon Qn Friday Dona~10ns will be sohc1ted by through noon on Saturday; fraternity mem~ers, and rna~ admission is free. also be sent directly to: Ph1 Teams made up of brothers of Phi Gamma Delta and Union women wm play halfahour games through the day and night. Local celebrity teams will also participate, with one team including tllis year's Honorary .Cbiarman, . Schenectady Assemblyman Jim Tedisco, City Council Pres.ident Tom Isabella,· Mayor Karen Johnson, Councilmen Vince DiCerbo, Al Jurczynski, Tom Gamma Delta, Box 2509, Union Colleget Schenectady; NY 12308. Last year, donations, ex- ceeding $3,000, were given to Missing Children-CAN and this year the fraternity hopes to double that amount. The Community Alert Network is a computerized. system for telephoning selected areas of Schenectady County in the event of any kind of emergency, including the event of a missing child. <!tnncnr~itnsis· SPORTS The baseball sea~on is once again approaching us and trades and agreennents are being made as we speak. However, this year there is something different in the air. · There is a great deal of bias against free agents. It seems that the baseball owner~:~. are not willing to give in to free agency anymore. Itis quite evident that in the major leagues there will 'be no more 10-year contracts or signing of free agents with large demands. Ov:er· the winter, the Yankees, for example, have had several chances to fill in some of the missing blanks in their pitching rotation, Each time they have come away empty. The Yankees are not the onlY team tha:t is no longer willing to, pay out big money. Both the Red Sox and Tigers told Rich Gedman and Lance Parrish that their services were no longer needed and National League batting champion Tim Raines was tQld the same thing by Montreal. The Yankees seem to be the team that has blown the most . opportunities. Jack Morri,s, one of the best pitchers in the game today, offered a contract to the Yankees which was rumored as being quite fair to both sides. Yet they decided a jumpshot at the 7: S4 mark, Union was the holder of a 21- point lead, 65-44. Bingllamton cut the margin to 67-52 when Dave Hochberg tipped in a missed shot with 4: 19 left to North Adams still a man down, Bill Snow blasted a Sh()t from the point to give the Dutchmen a quick 3-1 lead. It was Snow's first point of the year and his first goal of his Union College career. · Things started to go sour and North Adarnstook advantage of · two power plays and before the second period has ended Mike Devaney and Sean MbGonogle had again tied the score, this time 3-3. That, however, was going to be all for the Mohawks as the tbird period was all Union. Scott Cyr gave the D11tchmen the lead 19 seconds into the third frame on a goal mouth scramble. It was Cyr's second goal of the game and ninth of the year. N·OT IN THE BOX SCORE Mark Zimmerman that before they signed Morris they bad better sign their number one pitcher over the past decade, Ron Guidry. As it turns out, Guidry .is now an ex- Yankee and Morris never had the chance to be. Steinbrenner could not find it in his heart to fork over the $50,000 that separated Guidry and the Yanks from agreement. Most of the other teams in the Majors are doing similar things. During the dawning of free agency with the Messersmith case and peaking in the late seventies, we saw an era of increased player power over the owners. The Steinbrenner dynasty was built up ·On the big bucks free agent market. Suddenly, the owners, including King George Steingrabber, have banded together in an attempt to put the reins on higp free agent salaries. Unfortunately,. as in the Yankees' pitching woes, the owner wars against free agents have come at the expense of the \good of the teams.\ No longer will free agents like Reggie Jackson be able to push around the owners. This is beneficial to the players but for the fans who go to the games this year, many big name players may not be there to watch. play. After an 8-2 rW1, the Colonials trailed by just nine points, 69-60, with 2: 27 showing on the clock. Union extended its lead to 79-63, as Mark Trudeau Continued on page 18 Mark Goguen completed the scoring on a power play at 15:51 when he took a Dan Gould pass, skated in front of Dickenson and slid it in between his pads. Goguen, Cyr and Stephens were the big line for Union, getting three points each and Gouguen also gave the crowd a charge when he put on a one man show in killing off the last 40 seconds of a Mohawk power play midway through the third period. The Dutchmen pounded Dickenson with 44 shots while Toby O'Brien rebounded from a shabby start to stop 27 of 30 North Adams shots. The Dutchmen have their final home game Tuesday night against the Norwich Cadets. Bill Show CNo.26), the 1986·87 winner of the Thomas Van Arden Dukehardt award. ·Bill is a j.uhjor Civil engineer and received the award for maintaining the highest cumulative average on the Varsity Hockey Team.

'' lj lr !t , I \ 'l !I r; ,; \ j f '. ,, (, By DOUGLAS LLOYD Junior tri-Captain Colleen Dundon of the women's basketball team has been chosen for this week's \Athlete of the Week\. Colleen's talents on the hoops court have brought the women to a fine 9-11 season thus far, giving them a good bid at achieving wins in the double figures for just the third time in theirhistory. Colleen, the 3-year starting forward, leads the team in points scored and is currently second in reboimds. Although the team finished fourth in the Capital District tournament, Colleen was selected to the All- Tourney team for her efforts. Colleen amassed 22 points to lead the Anderson Stars In Track The Union women's track team used a healthy mix of experience and youth last Wednesday night as it hosted its own invitational. The Lady Dutclunen placed third out of nine teams, behind two very strong teams, Williams College and Albany State. Williams defended its 1986 championship with 142 points, topping Albany's 106 and Union's 82, and finishing well ahead of Dynamite Track Club's 24. Veterans Lorie Anderson, Julie Halpern and Jen Lee provided the bulk of the scoring for the women, but freshm.,en Claire Gilbert-Lytle and Shirley Cagle used their performances to show that women's track will be a force in years to come. Anderson had another busy day, as she racked up a first place in the long jump (15 feet 3 inches), seconds in the high jump ( 4 feet 0 inches) and triple jump (31 feet 6% inches), a third in the shot put (7.33 meters), and a sixth in the 50 meter hurdles (9.2 seconds). Halpern added four fourth place finishes, as she put the shot 7.10 meters, and then ran times of 8.7 seconds in the 50 meter hurdles, 7.4 seconds in the 50 meter dash, and 29.0 seconds in the 200 meters. Lee ran legs on both the mile and two-mile relay teams, and finished fifth in a very strong field in the 800 meters as she ran 2:30.4. Lytle, in her first year ever of running, sped to a school record of 63.9 seconds in the 400 meters, as she took third place in that event. She followed up that performance with another unofficial 63 second timing in the 1600 meter relay, leading that team to a third place time of 4:26.5. Cagle provided the Lady Dutchmen with their only other first place, as she won the high jump with a vault of 4 feet. Also putting in an outstanding performance was the two mile relay, which shattered the school record by five seconds. The relay team of Lee, Sherry Cargile, Amy Petri and Nora Tuthill clocked a time of 10:30.4 to finish a close third behind the Williams and Albany teams. The women's next race will be the state meet in two weeks, while the men's team travels to West Point on Sunday to compete in the MAC cham- pionships. CONCORDJENSJS, Fe_hruary 19, 1987 Page 19 with 197 points scored through 17 games this season. The team's success this year was not expected as nine of the 13 players are freshmen aad only two are seniors. If Colleen keeps a hot hand and the un- derclassmen continue to play good ball, coach Bonnie Gehling might have a contender on her 2 hands for next year and even 0 E_ possibly, sGmething of the Colleen Dunde>n Dutchmen in scoring over the weekend and helr> secure herself a spot on the All- Tourney team. Besides averaging 6.8 rpg., Colleen has added 11.6 ppg. to lead the team 0 dynasty that coach Bob Magee of the men's soccer team en- joyed for the past four years. Colleen, a sister of Delta Gamma, has also earned varsity letters in both soccer ruJ.d softball. Congratulations to Colleea on her team-leading statistics and on the team's success this season. - ll) Hoops •.• Continued from page 20 five points, 65-60, when Tom Beck converted a thr-ee point play with 7:39 showing on the clock. Union pulled to within two points, 71-69, on Beck's 3- point field goal with 2: CJ2 left to play. After a Mike Cinque basket and a free thr()W from Doug Gregory, Union crept to within one point, 73-72, ()n a Ken Levine rlll1ning jumpshot with 0:56 remaining. But three straight Albany State f()ul shots finished the scoring, as the Dutchmen were dealt only their third home loss of the season, 76-72. Tom Beck led Union with 16 points and 7 ass~s. Joe Romer with 14 points, Doug Gregory with 13 points and 6 rebounds and Kurt Fox with 10 points all followed Bec:k. Monday night, Union visited Binghamton in what was ex- pected to be a tough contest. This was not the case, though, as the Dutchmen got off to an uncharacteristically fast start and went on to post an 84-73 victory. Aided by four Kurt Fox baskets and six points from Torn Beck, Union got off to a 16- 4 lead. The Dutchmen extended this gap to 20 points, 30-10, after Joe Romer's short jumpshot at the 9:07 mark. They maintained this advantage throughout the rest of the rest of the half, due in part to 5B .percent shooting from the field. As the teams headed for the lockerrooms at halftime, Union led 47-29. The second half started off looking like a carbon copy of the first. Union led by 20 points for the initialll minutes of the new period. When Steve DeBalso hit Skating Dutchmen ... Continued from page 20 · through thick and thin were Duane Joyce and David Appleby. They receivEd well deserved ovations. All eight individuals were thanked for their dedication to Union College Hockey. After all the ceremonies were over, the game startecl on a down note with Ron Pasic of North Adams scoring on a weak shot through the legs of goaltender Toby O'Brie11 at 4:07 of the first period. ' Scott Cyr tied it up at 9:13 of the period after he intercepted a pass, stepped around a defenseman and beat goaltender Brian Dickenson with a low hard shot to the short side. Although the Dutchmen badly outshot North Adams 16 to 7 in the first period, Dickenson looked sharp while O'Brien didn't and the period ended with the score knotted 1- 1. The Dutchmen drew first blood in the second period, taking advantage of two power play opportlll1ities. Holding a five on three man advantage, Darren Stephens received a nice pass from Dan Gould and banged it in to give the Dut- chmen a 2-1 lead at 3:11. Only 50 seconds later with Phi Gamma Delta to hold Ninth Annual Basketball Marathon Phi Gamma Delta will hold its Ninth Annual 24-Hour Basketball Marath()n on February 27 and 28 in the Union College Fieldhouse. \fhrough the efforts of local celebrities and Union students, fllDds will be raised for Schenectady County for the Missing Children-Comrn unity Alert Network (CAN). The event will run from noon on Friday through noon on Saturday; admission is free. Teams made up of brothers of Phi Gamma Delta and Union women will play half-hour games through the day and night. Local celebrity teams will also participate, with one team including this year's Honorary .Chiarman, Schenectady Assemblyman Jim Tedisco, City Council Pr-esident Tom Isabella, Mayor Karen Johnson, Councilmen Vince DiCerbo, Al Jurczynski. Tom Hanaway, and David Nowak, County Board Representative Margaret Buhrmaster, and District Attorney John Poersch. This team will take on the Phi Gam brothers at 12 noon on Friday for the opening tip-off. Local radio and television stations will compete, as well as a contest between Schenectady police and fire departments. Donations will be solicited by fraternity members, and may also be sent directly to: Phi Gamma Delta, Box 2509, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Last year, donations, ex- ceeding $3,000, were given to Missing Children-CAN and this year the fraternity hopes to double that amount. The Community Alert Network is a computerized system for telephoning selected areas of Schenectady County in the event of any kind of emergency, including the event of a missing child. OLnncnrniensis SPORTS The basebal'l season is once again approaching us and trades and agreements are being made as we speak. However, this year there is something different in the air. There is a great deal of bias against free agents. It seems that the baseball owners are not willing to give in to free agency anymore. It is quite evident that in the major leagues there will be no more 10-year contracts or signing of free agents with large demands. Over the winter, the Yankees, for example, have had several chances to fill in some of the missing blanks in their pitching rotation. Each time they have come away empty. The Yankees are not the only team that is no longer willing to pay out big money. Both the Red Sox and Tigers told Rich Gedman and Lance Parrish that their services were no longer needed and National League batting champion Tim Raines was told the same thing by Montreal. The Yankees seem to be the team that has blown the most opportunities. Jack Morris, one of the best pitchers in the game today, offered a contract to the Yankees which was rumored as being quite fair to both sides. Yet they decided a jwnpshot at the 7:54 mark, Union was the holder of a 21- point lead, 65-44. Binghamton cut the margin to 67-52 when Dave Hochberg tipped in a missed shot with 4: 19 left to North Adams still a man down, Bill Snow blasted a shot from the point to give the Dutchmen a quick 3-1 lead. It was Snow's first point of the year and his first goal of his Union College career. Things started to go sour and North Adams took advantage of two power plays and before the second period has ended Mike Devaney and Sean MCGonogle had again tied the score, this time 3-3. That, however, was going to be all for the Mohawks as the third period was all Union. Scott Cyr gave the Dutchmen the lead 19 seconds into the third frame on a goal mouth scramble. It was Cyr's second goal of the game and ninth of the year. NOT IN THE BOX SCORE Mark Zimmerma,n that before they signed Morris they had better sign their number one pitcher over the past decade, Ron Guidry. As it turns out, Gllidry is now an ex- Yankee and Morris never had the chance to be. Steinbrenner could not find it in his heart to fork over the $50,000 that separated Guidry and the Yanks from agr-eement. Most of the other teams in the Majors are doing similar things. During the dawning of free agency with the Messersmith case and peaking in the late seventies, we saw an era of increased player power over the owners. The Steinbrenner dynasty was built up on the big bucks free agent market. Suddenly, the owners, including King George Steingrabber, have banded together in an attempt to put the reins on hig}1 free agent salaries. Unf<Ortllilately, as in the Yankees' pitching woes, the owner wars against free agents have come at the expense of the \good of the teams.\ No longer will free agents like Reggie Jackson be ab-Je to push around the owners. This is beneficial to the players but for the fans who go to the games this year·, many big name players may not be there to watch. play. After an 8-2 run, the Colonials trailed by just nine points, 69-QO, with 2:27 showing on the clock. Union extended its lead to 79.Q3, as Mark Trudeau Continued on page 18 Mark Goguen completed the scoring on a power play at 15:51 when he took a Dan Gould pass, skated in front ()f Dickenson and slid it in between his pads. Goguen, Cyr- and Stephens wer-e the big line for Union, getting three points each and Gouguen also g.ave the crowd a charge when he put on a one man show in killing of£ the last 40 seconds of a Mohawk power play midway tflrough the third period. The Dutchmen pounded Dickenson with 44 shots while Toby O'Brien rebounded from a shabby start tQ stop 27 of 30 North Adams shots. The Dutchmen have their final home game Tuesday night against the Norwich Cadets. Bill Show (No.26). the 1986·87 winner of the Thomas Van Arden Dukehardt award. Bill is a junior Civil engineer and received the award for maintaining the highest cumulative average on the Varsity Hockey Team.

,_ ...... tl> .. a. ~ c. a. c. ~ ~ 10 ~ <X: ~ > > .0 .0 0 ..... 0 0 .... 0 s:::. s:::. a c. School spirit abounds in '&Orange\ bowl. See Story below Hoopsters clinch winning seaspn .. February 19, 1987 • • • Men place alsof Lady Skiers Clinch Eastem Regionals By COLLIN INGERSOLL This past weekend the Union College men's and women's ski team travelled to Swain Mountain for the Alfred University Invitational. The men's team finished eighth ending up in fifth place out of a 17 team field in the Midwest Conference. The women's team took fifth and clinched a place in the Eastern Regionals to be held in Waterville Valley, New Hampshire. During the previous weekend both teams travelled to the Colgate Invitational held at Colgate's Mountain. The men were able to capture a place. However, this did not increase their chances for a bid to the Easterns. The women's team turned in a third place per- formance on the day which was good enough to put them in a tie with Army in the Mideast Conference. By the end of the weekend the men's team was in fifth place, one point behind Alfred and the leaders, Syracuse, Clarkson and RPI. Going into the past weekend's race at Swain Mountain the women's team had to have a solid performance in order to maintain their position in the top four. The men's team had their work cut out for them, they would have to finish one place ahead of Alfred in order to make it to the Eastern Regionals. During the season, Swain's course was known as being one of the longest, which did not help the team. Upon finishing the slalom on a cold Saturday, the men were behind Alfred, which meant a tough day of skiing on Sunday. The women .finished fifth in the slalom. The following day started out sunny, but the weather ended up being quite brisk. Aft~r the giant slalom it looked as though the men's team would overtake Alfred, but due t() a disqualification of a Union skier, the Dutchmen ended up several places behind Alfred. Hurcomb, Palotta Lead the Way Union's bright spot for the daY weri! Chris \Big Guy\ HurcomJ) '88, who finished sixth in the giant slalom and Allison Pallota '90 who finished seventh in the giant slalom. This weekend the women's team will travel to the Easterns in New Hcunpshire. They will be trying for a spot in the N. C.S.A. Nationals to be held in Butte, Colorad(). Cagers Take Two Out of Three ByMARKVANBUREN It was not only a busy week for the Union College men's basketball team, but it was also a tough one as well. The Dut- chmen started out by visiting Hartwick College. Hartwick, which had beaten Unionthe last two years in very close ballgames, entered the contest with an 11-7 mark, identical to that of Union. The Warriors quickly opened up a 12-3 lead seven minutes into the game, due· in part to four Dutchmen turnovers and four missed shots. An 8-0 run, folloWing a timeout, brought Union to within one point, 12-11, at the midway point of the first half. Hartwick pulled away for a 19-13lead at the6:56 mark on a John Bronkema lay·up. The Dutchmen came right back; and when Kwt Fox converted one of two free throws with 1:46 remaining in the half, Union had tied the score at 23. Following a John Mortimer basket, Doug Gregory hit two field goals to close the first period scoring, giving Union a 'lJ -25 advantage. The second half began with both teams trading leadS. But, when Tom Beck drilled home a 3-point field goal at the 12:26 mark, Union led 4()-39. Union would not give up this lead for the rest of the game, Three straight baskets. gave the Dutchmen a 47-39 margin. However, Hartwick battled back to cut its defiCit to 41-44 with 7:52 still to play. Union maintained this lead for the next six minutes. At this point, Scott Gibbs connected from 20 feet out to give Union a 6o-53 advantage. Two Neil Winawer free throws kept Union ahead by seven, 62-55, with just 0:47 left in the game. The Dutchmen still led with0:27 showing,.64-60, after Tim McGraw hit two foul shots. A Joe Romer missed free throw, coupled with a McGraw 3-pointer, brought the Warriors to within one point, 64-63, with eight seconds left. Neil Winawer was fouled, but missed his first free throw and Hartwick had one final shot at pulling out a victory. However, Ken Levine forced McGraw to step out of bounds with 0:03 remaining to preserve the Union win. Kurt Fox and Neil· Winawer each paced the winners with 16 points and 7 rebounds apiece. Joe Romer added 11 points and 5 rebounds. Union then played host .to a 17- 5 Albany State squad. Union enjoyed an early 5·2lead, before a 15-8 spurt gave the Great Danes a 17-13 advantage 9:06 into the first period. Doug Gregory's free throw and an eU~Juing 3-pointer from Scott Gibbs closed the Albany State margin to 24-23. Two Neil Winawei' free throws at the 6:12 mark gave Union a 25-24 lead, but this would be short-lived. Albany State ran off ten unanswered points to regain the lead 34-2fi, with just over four minutes to play before the in- termission. The Dutchmen were able to close the gap to 38-33 8S the half ended on a Joe Romer 18-foot jlllllper. Albany State held onto its slim margin as the seeond period .got underway. A lQ.-4 spurt midway through the period tllough, doubled a 6-point Great Dane lead to 61-49. However-, the Dutchmen would not give in and trailed by just Continued on page 19 . . . miss ECAC's Skaters Bow to H,amJito.n By GAVIN MOltt'()N ThE:! Union College Skating Dutchmen will not .compete in poast season play f()r the fi.J.·r,t time since the 1982-83 season. After making the E.C.A.C.s and the N.C.A.A.s for eacll of the last three years, the D11tchmen were finally eliminated from any chance of maiti.Iig the playoffs when the visiting Hamilton Continentals defeated the Dutchmen 4-llast Tuesday. The Dutchmen bounced back on Saturday to defeat North Adams State by a .SC(li\e of 5-3 during a rare afternCloll match. Against the Contine11tals, the Dutchmen came o\lt flying. Knowing this was a \must win\ game and knowing tllat when the Dutchmen scored goaltender Guy Hebert would be showered with oranges seemed to inspire the Dutchmen into playing one of 3eir finest periods of the year. At 15:4~ of the firn period, Nelson Saidpicked ofE an errant pass at the Hamilton hlueline and fed Darrell Gustafson. Gustafs()n had fall:en in the corner and when he g()t up he found himself aU alone in front of goaltender Guy Hebert and he proceeded to put a nice move on the sophomore standout and give the Dutchmen a 1..() lead. Then came the rainbow of oranges aimed at Hebert. But, . as we all know, rainbows go up and over and only abo11t three or four oranges found their mark. This was arguedlythe·turning point in. the g;une. Witll4:14 left in the period, the [)utclunen had · the momentum an<l the lead. There was so much orange on the ice (pl11S an eggplant) that the period :was called with the - - ... 4:14 being added onto the second period. · ' No more goals were to go by Hebert and the Dutchmen would tire· noticeably. Hamilton got on the board at 4:53 of the second period on a goal by soplunore Paul Can· nota. Less than six ·minutes later Scott Bothfeld gave the Continentals a lead that they wouldn't relinquish. As the game went on, the Dutchmen, who were only skating three lines, couldn't keep pace with the visitots and in the third period Hamilton would score twice more to put the game and the Dutchmen's playoff hopes to rest. Guy Hebert lowered his 2.35 goals against average by stopping 24 of 25 shots and Toby O'Brien also lowered is average by stopping 26 of 30 shots. Nelson Said's assist in the first period was his nineteenth of the sea.son, giving him a total of 30 points and making him the first Dutchmen to reach that plateau this year. The SaturdaY afternoon game against .North Adams was Senior Appreciation Night. Tom Rizzo and Mark Pompeo were thwed for their four years of dedication to the· junior varsity and varsity programs. Craig Blum and Jay Grossman received special mention from · Coacb Morrison for their help. Jeff McFarland was honored for hiS four years in the broadcasting booth while Ga~in Morton was honored for his combined four years between the ice and the· booth: The only two players who played aU four years on varSity and who have been mainstays Continuedon 19 controllihg IJUck inwln over North Adams.

·--. ·~-- --. Student Forum Approves Cha.nges in Conduct .Code Administratio:l1> Role in Meetings To Be Reduced ByL()RILE()N The St11dent Forum un.Q.nimously approved proposed changes to~heStudent Conduct Code Wednesday, February lil. These . changes mainly affect the position of the principal investigator-admi- nistrative advisor of the Code, or Conduct . Com.inittee.- The committee is made up of nine students chosen through ap- plications to the Committee on Committees; its job is to hear cases of violations of the student cond11et <!Ode as stated in the student handbook. The Student Forum recom- mended·th.at~, ~··\ · -·~--------- 1. The prin~pal .investigator- administrative advisor not be present duringthe deliberations of the committee after the case has been heard. 2. The principal investigator be excluded from the preliminary procedures of the hearings, that is, meeting with the accused p·erson, deter- mining the tilne, date and place of the hearing, and notifying the relevant parties (the committee members, the person bringing charges, thf;l accused, and witnesses) oftllistiine and date. A third statement was also approvedbytheForum: \If the subcouncil decides that the accused is not guilty of the charges, the case will be dropped- and no further action will be taken.'' These statements are the result of investigation into the Cond.uct Committee's procedures prompted by con- · cern of the Student Forum. According to Forum members, there bave been complaints by members of the conunittee and people br()Ught before the conunittee. These proposals were form ·warded to the Student Affairs Council whieh will then present a recoinmendation to President Morris. . .. d .,. . Continue on page\' 'HBOExecutive Michael. Fuchs e:·rihc.ize·ci- cOiiege·-:studenfs' em' phasi's on pre-professionalism. · HBO Chief Michael Fuchs Speaks at Mi.n:erva Lecture; Criticizes Student Priorities By FIONA.SHl,JKRI tribute outside the classroom. He reminded hls aqdience that Micp~~l Fuchs, .the J)f~sid¥Jn~ not so l~ng:a~o, lJuion'fl c~pus and Cln~f Qperatm.g Qfftc~r of \led this-co1Jflt:ry to the1r sen- HB(f $poke ·veoruary 18' at'\llie · · ~. ses-;'\\ and· l{pressea thts· nat1on Union Minerva . Lecture on . to look Vietnam square .. in the \Passion Commitment and face\ as well as campaigning The College Experience.\ for civil rights. \Where is the Fuchs is a 1967 graduate of · conscience of 1he campus?'' he Union and later received a asked. degree from New York -=u={:.:.:. ~fin::_,.d ........ stu\\\· -:d-en_t_s_· _m_o __ r_e_fu __ Universitfs law sc~ool. F.uchs terested in gi-ving you their has been m the medla busmess . ' . d r d. . t h for 15 years, during which he · res,umes 3:n, 1 ~ mg ou · oyr has worked as a lawyer, talent to br~ak m quickly, t~3:n 1n agent, producer, ex:ecutive- debatmg ~ny t31pe of p_oldic~~' producer, programming and moral, or mtelledualissue. sports executive, and corporate .. Michael F\chs executive. Fuchs began his speech by admitting to a certain sense of disappointment about the state · of today's colleges and · universities: \I find students more interested in giving you · their resumes and finding out how to 'break in; quickly'; than in debating any type of political, moral or intellectual issues/' However, his position with HBOmight ap~ar to contradict those convictions .. While he admitted to enjoying the power, and profits of his job, he stated that his fondest memories were of the \unglamorous\ cam- paigmng he did for Ed Muskie in 1971, and other such political involvement. \I remember those times because in a sense, they are the times of the . most inspired and idealistic memories and the times that so remind. me what's important about . growth and education.\ Fuchs went on to say that while it's \okay\ to occupy your tbougnts With exams, parties·, .. and yo~ fut1ire career, it'~ only okay 11p to a .point. He worries about where this preoccupation . is leading us as a cquntry. Compounding tbis problem is ''the terrible distraction · generate~. by the cor,nplexity of modern lifeu, specifically 24- hour sports, news, and movies, · a$ well as \Star Wars, Vanna White, and home shopping.\ Fuchs' rather vague solution to this problem is \passion.'' He suggests that from this passion one can discover more, and better, opportunities to con· The camp11s is a very powerful institution, Fuchs believes, and one quite capable of making a nation-wide dif- ference both culturally and politically. He ended his speech by asking colle~e students and faculty to \ to look past personal goals such as career advancement, and accept their obligation to \challenge themselves and their futures.\ Fuchs• speech lasted close to twenty minutes, after which the floor was opened for questions. Faculty and.staff asked most of the questions. One question seemed to represent the. general attitude of Fuchs' audience: \Isn't all this fairly easy for you to say?\ What was questioned was Fuchs' own adherence Co:litinued· .... \n ... ·~ cloes Union See editor Ia I, p. 8. 1877 February 26, 1987 1987-88 Fiscal Year Buqget Proposed; Reveals Calls For Faculty As 8.1 %Increase Top Priority In Tuition . IJy CHRISTINE HONG Th~ proposed prelimi:nar;Y . budg-et for Union College fiscal 1987·1988 is ready for fiilat appi:-oval by the Board ()f Trustees at the upcoming meeting in April. The budget has already undergone il· preliJninary review with th.e Buqget and Audit Committee as well' .as with the Board at the last trustees' meeting on JanU:ary 21. Said John Hauser, Vice-President of Finance an«:!. Adnlinistration, '~The propose«:!. budget should indicate to the stud~nts and faculty the priorities that th:e College h~. '' The 37apage report was com· piled and written over a peri()d of fCJUl' months and is sllb- divided into three .sect;io.lis: highlights of the budget, stud:ent charges, and faculty com- pensation. While there aren't many drastic changes in tile budget, Hauser noted that there is evidence of the College's initiative towards raisiag faclllty salaries and com- pensation. ''One thing tbat comes across loud and clear is that our people must be ap- propriately compensated. 'The College realizes that you need good people to have goM programs, and a good coUege.\ 'lbe proposed $1:5 million anotment spread between the Compensation Adjustment Provision and Academic Affairs will provide for just such an initiative. $990,000 will g() towards a Compensation Adj11stment Provision poCJl which will \provide for general salary and wage increases in the 5-5.2 percent range and · should ensure that our em- plCJyees keep pace with the ever increasing cost of living\ alcng witb a pool specified f()r \Fewarding superior per- formance and for effecting special or equity adjustments\ as necessary. According to the \report, the \merit pool\ whiCh is approximately $125,000 will Continued on page3 ~ -·-·-·- .c By CAMERON KENNY Union's Board of Trustees have approved a 8.1 percent increase in tuition for the up- coming 1987-88 school year. Added to this is a composite increase of 7.35 percent for both room and board. Overall, tuition, room, and board charges will increase $1,020, making the total cost of at- tending Union College $14,901. The $765 raise in tuition is identical to the increase of last ''An increased tuition rate of 6% to 9% is comparable to schools of Union's charac~ ter.\ -V.P. John Hauser year. John R. Ha'\l.Ser, Vlce President ·-of . Finan-ce.. and. Administration, states that a large factor jn the increase is due to the \need to improve programs.\ Hauser also adds that \proper compensation for our faculty and staff is our munber one objective'' and is necessary to· keep the college competitive. Hauser further states that \our competitive position will not suffer\ as a result of the increase and that \an increased tuition rate of 6 percent to 9 percent per year is comparable to other schools of Union's caliber.\ The College's financial aid allotment was also increased by $388,000, or 7.8 percent, over this year's budget. According to Ellen Frishberg, the Director of Financial Aid, the \increase in For a comparison of Union's tuition increase to that of other colleges, please see table on p. 3. financial aid will not completely ·offset the increase in cost\. .Some of the gap caused by the tuition.increase may be filled by parents' increased wages, says Frishberg, and \students will probably have to borrow more, but we'll try to keep that to a minimwn.'' Included in this increase is · the transfer of $50,000 to scholarships and other aid. It is important to note that the ,proposed increase in the Aid . budget of 7.8 percent is greater than the 7.35 percent increase in overall student charges (tuition, .. housing, and food contracts). State Of The Union 0. Coming Early This Spring .Sl LL in Schenectady?

'.' ·- CONCORDIENSIS, February 26, 1987 \ . .,~..v>~\ Conduct Code Procedures Delineate·d; Forum, Committee Heads Disagree on Benefits Continued from page 1 . Established in Fall 1982, the cUrrent procedure for a student conduct code case is a series of steps .beginning with one person bringing the charges against another. The Dean of Students' Office is either informed directly or through Security. The Associate Dean of Students is usually the principal in- vestigator who meets with the. accused and reviews both the charges and conduct procedures with him-her. The procedure allows the student to choose between a ad~ minisirati.ve hearing with the Associate Dean of Students .and . concern is for the Conduct a conduct committee hearing. Committee .. Determining the Accovding to Associate Dean of appropriate discipline action · Students Robert Massa, the fora case is ex:.tremely difficult majority of students prefer the task. Tbe .students learn that private hearing because the through experience, Any charges are either \relatively change to the current minor or cut and dry.\ The procedures should not make the . coniinittee is not . actually Conduct Comtnittee's job more empow~red to make any difficultthan it8lread:Vis.'' An illegally parked car outside of the ma·ilroom in Richmond parkiJ:Jg lot is a common sight around campus. Parking Insufficient ·For Number of Cars; College Aware of Problem But Has No Plans . By ALISON WH.LIAMS plaints about the Fox-Davidson parking lot not having enough The parking problem has spaces. \They're the two increasingly become an issue on biggest dorms on campus and campus. Students are com- there's not really enough plaining about an insufficient parking,\ said another student. number of parking spaces. Security is aware .of thi-s Some student complaints are · problem and the solution is that that more cars are being· students can park by the field ticketed and towed. \It's hard house and during the evening to get spaces between 10 a.m. they can call tbe escort service and 5 p~m.,\ said one Union to get to their -cars. Security Another question is the . parking by the Alumni Gym- nasium. The lot between the gym and Bailey has been closed. but across from the gym a parking lot has been opened. The administration is aware of the parking· situation and is looking into some sort of alternative but it is uncertain how soon or if anything at an will be d1me about the problem. decisions. The first change might not be In the private hearing, only beneficialtothe conunittee as it Dean Massa (as the principal seems te put more pressme on investigator) is involved outside the chairman of the committee. of the accuser, the accused and The present ~hairman, Scott relevant Witnesses, and he Klares, .. feels that it \is logically sends his recolrlmendation and impossible·andit would take too factual ~eport to Dean Marn- long to exclude the dean . . . he mola, who makes the final . has more resources ... it would deCision. · · · al~o be detrimental ... his input In both typ~s of hearings is definitely helpful, he ke·eps disposition of the charge .. is in you on your toes-you may lose the form of a recommendation. something.\ Be does not feel to the Dean of Students who~ . uncomfortable with an ad- \almost always accepts the1 ministrative advisor there: ~-'I findings and recommendations.~ don;t find it at all intimidating.\ He may fine tune ~them), but: . He suggested: that \w})at the ahnost always accepts th~m\ For11m might do would be to set according to M:a~sa. soine guidelines as far as this Massa feels the position of · • role.\ principal investigator to be \the The Conduct Committee dean for the accused as well as mainly deals with iss11es that for the person bringing· . have transpired on campus. charges.\ HiS responsibility in \The student conduct code has this role is to initiate the, very little to do with laws preliminary hearing in which . outside the .gates' f. Massa the accused is notified. and atated. \The action .of the charges are explained. He is Conduct Committee is in- College student. also Said that the reason for the parking problem behind Fox- Security bas not changed Davidson is because the lot is · their towing and ticketing . for Fox:, Davidson, Webster; policy. Mr. · Fitzgerald, South, and Sigma Delta Tau. also present d•uring the dependent of any action taken deliberations of the coillinittee · by civil authorities off- .· if any ·. clarifh:ation of · campus.\ . procedures is needed or if ·the Student Fl)rum President assistant director of security, There are approximately 140 said there iS a parking problem spaces in the lot and on the and cars are getting towed and .entire carnpl.lS there are 550 ticketed because students are resident students with f parking on the laWll$ and in \no reg~ered cars. This 9,oes not ·e parking\ areas. · inclUde commuter st11dents or (/) There have also been com- adniinistration. · tl HBO Executlve•,s Remarks Offend Students• Self-Esteem Continued from page 1 his beliefs. Fuchs' response was that he was still mildly involved in politics and that he tried to make his contribution through· his company's programming. \Where is the conscience of this campus?\ .•. (students· should) \challenge them- selves and their futures.'J -Michael Fuchs When asked if he, himself, wasn't in part responsible for \the terrible distraction\ he spoke of earlier, since he is, in fact, in the media business, he said that it's a matter of \discipline at home.\ The media business reflects what it thinks the people want to see. He adc!ed that he felt that HBO~s programming was superior to most networks because of the relative freedom it enjoys due to private funding. Michael Fuchs seemed to have a nostalgic view of the sixties and the political interest that particular era demanded. Although his concern about the superficiality of today's college students may be sincere and valid, he seemed unable to come up with any concrete methods of improving the situation other than stating that the solution must be generated by college campuses. ~ .0 Q) 0! Todd Rutledge Student's Knowledge, ·.Quick Action Saves Life By R. REED WHII)DEN committee members have Steven Moss feels differently on relevant question. th!s issue. Like Klares, he would In setting·. up the formal lik'-e to see a $imple .hearing by the coll)ttlittee, the classification. system- .principal investigator keeps the · established to further clarify .chairman of the committee . the status of the principle in- infonned. The chairman ls the . vestigator. -He feels it would ·be· oniy meJ:Dber of the committee more adv~tageous for the aware of a case ·prior to its students involved as well as the ,hearing. \The chairman has to principal investigator if the .-know the case because he has t(} investigator was not present af run the meeting,\ said Massa. the deliberations;, but wants to The .principal investigator does assure that the proceedings wiQ. not actually take part in the . be constitUtional and monitored hearing unless specifically · by, the Administration· in asked. The other members are general.) briefed right before the hearing. If there is a conflict of interests · It is possible that students between the case and personal . involved in the hearing are feelings, members may step intimidated by an ad- down from that hearing. This ministrative figure. \I would occurred twice in the past three like to see the Administration years, according to Massa. · · support us on this as a vote of There are approximately· fif- confidence ... that tbe students teen cases requiring condilct are responsible enough to hear code enforcement each year. · these cases without running into Five were heard last year but difficulties.\ Moss said. He has the committee has only had one ''faith in the Student Conduct case so far this year. · Committee that ·they can arrive The hearing is run according at their own decision without to set procedures, and witnesses , having to be so closely are not allowed to be present · monitored . by the during the entire meeting. The Administration.\ Moss ern- accused may bring a silent phasized that this is not an advisor for moral support. example of students vs. the When the hearing concludes the Administration, though it might For Todd Rutledge and Peter Amato Sunday, February 15, . was no ordinary day. These two freslunen~ who live in Potter House-the building that used to be occupied by Delta Upsilon, had quite. the frightening ex- perience that day. Todd, just returning from a hard day's hockey practice, was heading downstairs· to get some water to quench his thirst. As he was c o m m i t t e e b e g i n s appear to be such. It is irn- .- deliberations. portant .for the two factions to In regard to the proposed work with each other. · changes, Massa said \my WRUC Board Elections March 2 All Executive Board Positions • l:n· Contention . passing by Peter's room he saw · Peter motioning to him. ''He was gasping for air and his face · · looked flushed-almost bluish.\ · Peter had app~rently swallowed a piece of hard candy~ However, instead of this candy going down the esophagus, it headed down the · trachea. He was choking and . · needed some help right away. Todd acted quickly. \I grabbed · him and performed the Heimlich maneuver. You know, the thipg you learn in high . school first aid classes.\ Todd tried three times to dislodge the candy~ Only on the fourth try . was he able to clear tM air passage way. Peter was llSking for water after he was able to breathe again. Thanks to 1'odd, Peter is breathing well. ..

Page 2 CONCORDJENSIS, February 26, 1987 -- Conduct Code Procedures Delineated;· Forum, Committee Heads Disagree on Benefits An illegally parked car outside of the mailroom in Richmond parking lot is a common sight around campus. Continued from page 1 Established in FaU 1982, the current procedure fer a student conduct code case is a series of steps begmniflg with one person bringing the charges against another. The Dean of Students' Office is either informed directly or through Security. The Associate Dean of Students is usually the principal in- vestigator who meets with the accused and reviews both the charges and conduct procedures with him-her. The procedure allows the student to choose between a ad- ministrative hearing with the Parking Insufficient For Number of Cars; College Aware of Problem But Has No Plans By ALISON WILLIAMS The parking problem has increasingly become an issue on campus. Students are com- plaining about an insufficient number of parking spaces. Some student complaints are that more cars are being ticketed and towed. \It's bard to get spaces between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.,\ said one Union College student. Security has not changed their towing and ticketing policy. Mr. Fitzgerald, assistant director of security, said there is a parking problem and cars are getting towed and ticketed because students are parking on the lawns and in \no parking\ areas. There have also been com- plaints about the Fox-Davidson parking lot not having enough spaces. ''They're the two biggest dorms on campus and there's net really enough parking,'' said another student. Security is aware of this prol>lein and the solution is that students can park by the field house and during the evening they can call the escort service to get to their cars. Security also said that the reason for the parking problem behind Fox- DavicU;on is because the lot is for Fox, Davidson, Webster, Soutb, and Sigma Delta Tau. There are approximately 140 spaces in the lot and on the entire campus there are 550 resident students with ;: registered cars. This poes not ·E include commuter students or (/) administration. ~ --------------------------~-------------------------~ HBO Executive's Remarks Offend Students' Self-Esteem Continued from page I his beliefs. Fuchs' response was that he was still mildly involved in politics and that he tried to make his contribution through his company's programming. \Where is the conscience of this campus?\ ... (students should) \challenge them- selves and their futures.'' -Michael Fuchs When asked if he, himself, wasn't i.n part responsible for \the terrible distraction\ he spoke of earlier, since he is, in fact, in the media business, he said that it's a matter of \discipline at home.\ The media business reflects what it thinks the people want to see. He ad~ed that he felt that HBO' s progxamrning was superior to most networks because of the relative freedom it enjoys due to private funding. Michael Fuchs seemed to have a nostalgic view of the sixties and the political interest that particular era demanded. Although his concern about the superficiality of today's college students may be sincere and valid, he seemed Wlable to come up with any concrete methods of improving the situation other than stating that the solution must be generated by college campuses. WRUC Board Elections March 2 All Executive Board Positions • 1n Contention .0 (]) ~ Another question is the parking by the Alumni Gym- nasium. The lot between the gym and Bailey has been closed but across from the gym a parking lot has been opened. The administration is aware of the parking situation and is looking into some sort of alternative but it is uncertain how soon or if anything at all will be done about the problem. Todd Rutledge Studentfs Knowledge, Quick Action Saves Life By R. REED WHIDDEN For Todd Rutledge and Peter Amato Sunday, February 15, was no ordinary day. These two freshmen, who live in Potter House-the building that used to be occupied by Delta Upsilon, had quite the frightening ex- perience that day. Todd, just returning from a hard day's hockey practice, was heading downstairs to get some water to quench his thirst. As he was passing by Peter's room he saw Peter motioning to him. \He was gasping for air and his face looked flushed-abnost bluish.\ Peter had apparently swallowed a piece of bard candy. However, instead of this candy going down the esophagus, it headed down the trachea. He was choking and needed some help right away. Todd acted quickly. \I grabbed him and performed the Heimlich maneuver. You know, the thing you learn in high school first aid classes.\ Todd tried three times to dislodge the candy. Only on the fourth try was he able to clear the air passage way. Peter was asking for water after he was able to breathe again. Thanks to Todd, Peter is breathing well. Associate Dean of Students and a coHduct committee hearing. According to Associate Dean of Students Robert Massa, the majority of students prefer the private hearing because the charges are either \relatively minor or cut and dry.\ The committee is not actually empowered to make any decisions. In the private hearing, only Dean Massa (as the principal investigator) is involved outside of the accuser, the accused and relevant witnesses, and he seAds his recommendation and factual report to Dean Mam- mola, who makes the final decision. In both typ~s of bearings disposition of the cllarge is in the form ef a recommendation to the Dean of Students who1 \almost always accepts the1 findings and recommendations.· He may fine tune (them), buf almost always accepts them\ according to Massa. - Massa feels the position of principal investigator to be ''the dean for the accused as well as for the person bringing charges.\ His responsibility in this role is to initiate the preliminary hearing in which the accused is notified and charges are explained. He is also present during the deliberations of the committee if any clarification of procedures is needed or if the committee members have relevant question. In setting up the formal hearing by the committee, the principal investigator keeps the chairman of the committee informed. The chairman is the only member of the committee aware of a case prior to its hearing. \The chairman has to know the case because he has to run the meeting,\ said Massa. The principal investigator does not actually take part in the bearing unless specifically asked. The other members are briefed right before the hearing. If there is a conflict of interests between the case and personal feelings, members may step down from that hearing. This occurred twice in the past three years, according to Massa. There are approximately fif- teen cases requiring conduct code enforcement each year. Five were heard last year but the committee has only had one case so far this year. The hearing is rWl according to set procedures, and witnesses are not allowed to be present during the entire meeting. The accused Inay bring a silent advisor for moral support. When the hearing concludes the committee begins deliberations. In regard to the proposed changes, Massa said \my concern is for the Conduct Committee. Determining the appropriate discipline action for a case is extremely difficult task. The students learn that through ex:perience. Any change to the current procedures sb.<Jttld not make the Conduct Committee's job m{)re difficultthanit a1ready is.\ The first change might not be beneficial te the committee as it seems to put more pressure on the chairman of the committee. The present chairman, Scott Klares, feels that it \is logically impossible and it would take too long to exclude the dean . . . he has more resources ... it would also be detrimental ... his input is definitely helpful, he keeps you on your toes-you may lose something.\ He does not feel uncomfortable with an ad- ministrative advisor there: \I don't find it at all intimidating.\ He suggested that \what the Forwn might do would be to set some guidelines as far as this role.\ The Conduct Committee mainly deals with issues that have transpired on campus. ''The student conduct code has very little to do with laws outside the gates\ Massa stated. \The action of the Conduct Committee is in- dependent of any action taken by civil authorities off- campus.\ Student Forum President Steven Moss feels differently on this issue. Like Klares, be would 1ike to see a simple classification system established to further clarify the status .cf the principle in- vestigator. He feels it would be more advantageous for the students involved as well as the principal investigator if the investigator was n<Jt present at the deliberations-, but wants to assure that the proceedings will be constitutional and monitored by. the Administration in general.) It is possible that students involved in the hearing are intimidated by an ad- ministrative figure. \I would like to see the Administration support us on this as a vote of confidence ... that the students are responsible enough to bear these cases without running into difficulties.\ Moss said. He has \faith in the Student Conduct Committee that they can arrive at their own decision without having to be so closely monitored by the Administration.\ Moss em- phasized that this is not an example of students vs. the Administration, though it might appear to 'be such. It is im- portant for the two factions to work with each other.

.. CONCORDIEfV'S[S, February 26, 1987 Dudley Visiting Professorship Program Brings Dr. Szabados From Hungary to Union By CHRISTINE DVORSKY Union College recently bad · the privilege of welcoming Dr. Lazslo Szabados to its Physics Department. A native of Budapest, Hungary,. ·Or. Szabados is an internationally recognized astronomer and a staff member of the Konkoly Observatory in Budapest. · He Will be at Union for six months through the DUdley Visiting Profes$orsbip Program, which is funded by the Dudley Observatory in Schenectady. Once a large NASA research · facility, the observatory is· now :mainly concerned with using funds from its endowments to finance research and promote· educational activities · in the · Capital District. The Dudley V:isiting Professorship Progr~ will finance visiting fellows to Union as well as RPI and SUNY A on the basis of resumes and nominations submitted by . the colleges, and Dr. Szabados · is the second professor to be ~ponsored under the program. ])r; Szabados~ proposal was submitted by Professor Baksay, who had. previously known and worked with him in Hungary, and was approved by Physics Department Chairman Professor Peak in the fall. As Dudley . Professor, . Dr. Szabados' duties will include giving .lectures in the Capital District to both the general public and the academic cottununity. Because his field is variable stars, his talks are expected to attract many amateur astronomers and stargazers. In addition, he will be conducting research at Union and plans to participate in the Introdqctory Astr~momy courseto betaught by Professor Bak~ay in the spring. Percent Increase ,in Tuition Arranged In Descending Order ·For Comparable Colleges 1986-87 1. Davidson 2. Dickinson 3. Colby 4. Frankl.in & Marshall 5. Kenyon · 6 Swarthmore 7. Clark 8. Trinity 9. University of Rochester 10. St.· Lawrence _u .. - c.orneu·.~: -· ·. ·,· W .&.l • f-~<wa<o~ ..... ~ 12. Skid;mo,re : ,;; · · ~ 13. Carleton 14. B·vcknell Colgate Lehigh Worcester 18. Mt. HoJyoke 19. Columbia 20. Denison . Grinnell 22. Dartmouth 23. Boston University 24. Vassar 25. Wesleyan R.P.I. ·oberlin (28. UNION Haverford 30. Brown Hamilton Hobart&. Wm. Smith Williams : 34. Amherst Brandeis Tufts 'J7. sa·rnard Bowdoin Hartwick 40. Lafayette 41. Princeton 42 .. Wellesley 43. Sara.h Lawrence 44. Smith 19.1 11.7 11.5 11.5 11.2 11.1 . ·10.9 10.5 9.9 9.8 ' ~ ' 9.? . . - . .. . ·' • ~ · -9A 9.1 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 8.9 8.8 - 8.6 8.6 8.5 8.4 8.4 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.1 8.1 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 7.9 7.9 7_.9 7.8 7.8 7.8 7.6 7.5 7..4 6.9 6.8 45. washington &·Jefferson 6.7 46. Clarkson MEDIAN MEAN 8.40% 8.92% 6.0 <· I r ~ Financial Aid Applications Due March 1 Apply Now! · Pr. Szabados i$ in the United · States with his wife and two daUghters .. Although they have · only been here for a few weeks, they have foupd America to be very different from Europe. He describes Schenectady as \very quiet, calm, and clean,\ then J: : E 1/') ru u u II> ..0 II> 0! >- ..0 .. added that he .is ''very happy to be here.\ His immediate plans include processing research data on a computer and preparing lectures to be delivered in the coming months. He and his family · are all looking forward to making friends and learning more about the American way of life. . i . .. 0 . Vice- President John. Hauser talks on the 1987·88 proposEd budget. '.(]j +- ·o J: c.. '$1.5 M Allocation lnitiates Foculty Compensation-Salary Pool Continuedfrompagel to the 1986-87 year's 6 percent (for 950 studeats), the campus be distri•buted from senior increase. This increase bookstore. adrniliistrative offices to in~ although only 1 percent will The 1987~1988 prC»posed budget dividual faculty and staff signl(icantly alter Union's was formulate-d from Sep- members. $400,000 of this ranking nationally, which was tember throughDecember 1986. budgeted amounnt will help · formally \at the low end of the As. it states in the proposed provide for the increasing costs range for this current academic budget, the pro<!ess started with of employee benefits brought year.\ submissions fr(llm senior ad- about by increased salaries as . ministrators idellltifying ''their well as increased FICA taxes \The proposed budget should top priority needs\ along with and health insurance programs. indicate to the students and supporting illfo1mation. Fur- The remaining $110,000 will be faculty the priorities that the thermore, currEilt buclgets were allocated for additional faculty College has.\ reviewed ''tCl determine the positions for the 1987-198'8 _., -V.P. Hauser. adequacy . , .. and relative academic year. priorities (}f the major activities Other note worth changes in The resources for the budget for which funcs er-e budgeted.\ the proposed budget are a (revenue of the College) The submissbn5 as well as $388,000 increase (up 7.8 per- · originates from three primary general, \college•wide\ needs cent) in Student Aid, a $448,000 sources: one, student charges w_ere reviewEd l>y President increase in Academic Affairs~ for tuitien and fees from 1940 Morris and his .Cabinet; from and a new provision in the students; two, funds from the there, \p:ri~rities were budget for an Inflationary Cost College's endowment and gifts . established. )).y consensus.\ Measure of $246,000 whose · to the college; three, funds And, finallY.,· tfle dollar figures purpose will be to subsidize the generated from auxiliary en- were allocated to \top priority inflation on cvllege expenses terprises such as housing (for . needs by the Pl'esident and the and ·capital acquisittons -during 1340 students), foqd_ cqntrc,lcts Cabinet.\ . . :~~t~~1l~~~~~~~~r~~~-.·. wa-shing--ton- A1ld·- Lee Polic·y: ·as.s~~·,a~-~pe~oen~-Ul~r.ea~gr@~ :· L r:.f ~Y._<;<~·,: -·\! \')·' ~#/l'·r),!,·~- ..... ~.~:l- w;f·~ t :tE~ ~I> the_· c ... PJ. {Consumer \Price. F. e·Jony Drug Con·v:···cti·o. n Index) - 2 .percent below the · · . · . . · · . · · expected 4. 75 percent increase N t G . d f E . ·J • in C.P.I. for next year. 0 roun s or x,p u SIOD The budget also provides for · an additional allocation of Editor's note: in light ()f the school for a terrn~ and giving the $300,000 for Finance and recent Sigma Phi decision, we other conduc=t and social Administration which will cover . find it worthwhile to show probation. ·the higher premiums for the another college's policy in such What was most. important to College's insurance program. matters. · the drug committee, Jarrard The costs, according to the said, was the 11ature of the budget report, increased 140 Lexington, Va.- (I .P. )- crime. In {)ne 'C!ase, he said the percent from 1985-86 to 1986-87, ·Because a blanket rule dealing student was fcJtJnd guilty by the . and over a three year span, the with felonies would not make sec of possessio.n with the in- costs have gone from $189,000 to room for cases that involved tent to distribute-what Jarrard approximately $700,000. special circumstances, called a crime against the Washington and Lee University community; illille other case, a The priorities that Hauser . noted concerning faculty salaries and compensation are elaborated in the budget in a g.. page appen~ which explains the mc;>tives and methods by which the budget wUI try to ''adequately compensate its people.\ It also employs comparative statistics on · faculty salaries and com- pensation with other IIA : colleges and universities as well as with peer institutions. • According to the report, the budget recommends a 7 percent . increase in compensation for . fiscal year 1987-88 as compared Psychology Professor Leonard possession ccmvfction, the E. Jarrard, chairman of the student harmec only himself. Drug Policy Review Corn.. The differenc:e in penalties mittee, said his committPP shows that tile first student thought \It would be a tragic deserves punisllrnent while the mistake that any felony con- other needs help~ viction would be grounds for The solution tiD the problem expulsion.\ was to make a distinction To demonstrate his com- between majCJr and minor mittee's position, Jarrard used conduct offens>()s, which were the example o.f two students · instituted last year'. The Girard convicted of drug charges. In (guilty of possession of cocaine both cases, he said, the students with the intent t() distribute it) received the same jail sentence case was the first major offense for p<lSSession of cocaine~ But, the sec consiclet\ed Jarrard he continued; the Student said, and the fact that it was Control Committee imposed handled as a clime against the different sanctions on the community s11gg.ested that \the students, suspending one from system was -wor:king.\ ediType WORD PROCESSING SER'QCE . Resumes and Cover Let·ters Technical Typing Term Papers and These-s 1986 rates for first drafts received before February 1, 19e1 Phone 399 .. 8762 On-Campus del iverv can be arranged

. CONCORDIENS!S, FefJruary 26, 1987 ?age3 Dudley Visiting Professorship Program Brings Dr. Szabados From Hungary to Union By CHRISTINE DVORSKY Union CoHege recently had the privilege of welcoming Dr. Lazslo Szabados to its Physics Department. A native of Budapest, Hungary, Dr. Szabados is an internationally recognized astronomer and a staff member of the Konkoly Observatory in Budapest. He will be at Union for six months through the Dudley Visiting Profes.sorship Program, which is funded by the Dudley Observatory in Schenectady. Once a large NASA research facility, the observatory is now mainly concerned with using fWlds from its endowments to finance research and promote educational activities in the Capital District. The Dudley Visiting Professorship Program will finance visiting fellows to Union as well as RPI and . SUNY A on the basis of resumes and nominations submitted by the colleges, and Dr. Szabados is the second professor to be sponsored under the program. Dr. Szabados' proposal was submitted by Professor Baksay, wh.o had previously known and worked with him in. Hungary, and was approved by Physics Department Chairman Pr()fessor Peak in the fall. As Dudley Professor, Dr. Szabados' duties will include giving lectures in the Capital District to both the general public and the academic conununity. Because his field is variable stars, his talks are expected to attract many aFnateur astronomers and stargazers. In addition, he will be conducting research at Union and plans to participate in the Introductory Astronomy course to be taught by Professor Baksay in the spring. Percent Increase in Tuition Arranged In Descending Order For Comparable Colleges 1986-17 l. Davidson 2. Dickinson 3. Colby 4. Frankl in & Marsha II 5. Kenyon 6 Swarthmore 7. Clark 8. Trinity 9. University of Rochester 10. St. Lawrence ll. Cornell 12. ·skidmore 13. Carleton 14. Bucknell Colgate Lehigh Worcester 18. Mt. Holyoke 19. Columbia 20. Denison Grinnell 22. Dartmouth 23. Boston University 24. Vassar 25. Wesleyan R.P.I. Oberlin 128. UNION Haverford 30. Brown Hamilton Hobart & Wm. Smith Williams 34. Amherst Brandeis Tufts 37. Barnard Bowdoin Hartwick 40. Lafayette 41. Princeton 42. Wellesley 43. Sarah Lawrence 44. Smith 45. Washington & Jefferson 46. Clarkson MEDIAN MEAN 8.40% 8.92% 19.1 11.7 11.5 11.5 11.2 1 1. 1 10.9 10.5 9.9 9.8 9.5 9.4 9.1 9.0 9.0 9.0 9.0 8.9 8.8 8.6 8.6 8.5 8.4 8.4 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.1 I 8.1 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 7.9 7.9 7.9 7.8 7.8 7.8 7.6 7.5 7.4 6.9 6.8 6.7 6.0 r ~ Financial Aid Applications Due March 1 Apply Now! Dr. Szabados is in the United States with his wife and two daughters. Altheugh tlley have only been here for a few weeks, they have foW1d Amer-ica to be very different from Europe. He describes Schenectady as \very quiet, calm, and clean,\ then . added that he is ''very happy to be here.'' His immediate plans include processing research data on a computer and preparing lectures to be delivered in the coming months. He and his family are all looking forward to making friends and learning mo:re about t_he American way of life. ,l . t, . r- \'· 4 A V1ce·President John Hauser talks on the 1987·88 proposed budget. .s::: +- E f/) 10 u u C1l .0 C1l ct >- .0 0 +- 0 .s::: 0. $1.5 M Allocation Initiates Faculty Compensation-Salary Pool Continued from page 1 be distributed from senior administrative offices to in- dividual faculty and staff members. $400,0~0 of this budgeted amounnt will help provide for the increasing costs of employee benefits brought about by increased salaries as well as increased FICA taxes and health insurance programs. The remaining $110,000 will be allocated for additi()nal faculty positions for the 1987-1988 academic year. other noteworth changes in the proposed budget are a $388,000 increase (up 7.8 per- cent) in Student Aid, a $448,000 increase in Academic Affairs, and a new provision in the budget for an Inflationary Cost Measure of $246,0{)0 whose purpose will be to subsidize the inflation on college expenses and capital acquisitions during the fiscal year. The inflationary measures, according·to Hawer, assume a 3 percent in crease in the C.P.r. (Consurner Price Index) - 2 percent below the expected 4. 75 percent increase in C.P .1. for next year. The budget also provides for an additional allocation of $300,000 for Finance and Administration which will cover the higher premiums for the College's insurance program. The costs, according to the budget report, increased 140 percent from 1985-86 to 1986-87, and over a three year span, the costs have gone from$189,000 to approximately $700,0{)0. The priorities tllat Hauser noted concerning faculty salaries and compensation are elaborated in the budget in a 9- page appendix which explains the motives and methods by which the budget will try to \adequately compensate its people.\ It also employs comparative statistics on faculty salaries and com .. pensation with other IIA colleges and universities as well as with peer institutions. According to the report, the budget recommends a 7 percent increase in compensation for fiscal year 1987-88 as compared to the 1986-87 year's 6 percent increase. This increase although only 1 percent will significantly alter Union's ranking nationally, which was fonnally \at the low end of the range for this current academic year.\ \The proposed budget should indicate to the students and faculty the priorities that the College has.\ -V .P. Hauser The resources for the budget (revenue of the College) originates from three primary sources: one, student charges for tuition and fees from 1940 students; two, funds from the College's endowment and gifts to the college; three, funds generated from auxiliary en- terprises such as housing (for 1340 students), food contracts (for 950 students), the campus bookstore. The 1987-1988 proposed budget was formulated from Sep- tember through December 1986. As it states in the proposed budget, the process started with submissions from senior ad- ministrators identifying \their top priority needs\ along with supporting information. Fur- thermore, current budgets were reviewed \to determine the adequacy . . . and relative priorities of the major activities for which funds are budgeted.\ The submissions as well as general, \college-wide\ needs were reviewed by President Morris and his Cabinet; from there, \priorities were established by consensus.\ And, finally, the dollar figures were allocated to \top priority needs by the President and the Cabinet.\ Washington And ~ee. ~olicy: Felony Drug Conviction Not Grounds for Expulsion Editor's note: in light of the recent Sigma Phi decision, we find it worthwhile to show another college's policy in such matters. Lexington, Va.-(l.P.)- Because a blanket rule dealing with felonies would not make room for cases that involved special circumstances, Washington and Lee University Psychology Professor Leonard E. Jarrard, chairman of the Drug Policy Review Com- mittee, said his cornmittPP thought \It would be a tragic mistake that any felony con- viction would be grounds for expulsion.\ To demonstrate his com- mittee's position, Jarrard used the example of two students convicted of drug charges. In both cases, he said, the students received the same jail sentence for possession of cocaine. But, he continued, the Student Control Committee imposed Clifferent sanctions on the students, suspending one from school for a term, and giving the other conduct and social probation. What was most important to the drug committee, Jarrard said, was the nature of the crime. In one case, he said the student was found guilty by the sec of possession with the in- tent to distribute-what Jarrard called a crime against the community; in the other case, a possession conviction, the student harmed only himself. The difference in penalties shows that the first student deserves punishment while the other needs help. The solution to the problem was to make a distinction between major and minor conduct offenses, which were instituted last year. The Girard (guilty of possession of cocaine with the intent to distribute it) case was the first major offense the sec considered, Jarrard said, and the fact that it was handled as a crime against the community suggested that \the system was working.\ edllype WORD PROCESSING SERVICE Resumes and Cover Letters Technical Typing Term Papers and Theses 1986 rates for first drafts received before February 1, 1987 Phone 399-87 62 On·Campus del.ivery can be arranged

Page4 CONCORD.(ENS/S, F-ebr-UJ~ry_26; 1987 ' ' ..... --NOTEWORTHYNEWS-· ---- Lt. Governor to Speak at · Local Conference Lieutenant Governor Stan Lundine will address legislative · priorities. at a breakfast meeting, 7:30 to 9:00 a.m., Friday, March 6, at the Ramada Inn, Nott Street. The breakfast is sponsored· by the Schenectady Cowtty Chamber of Commerce and its State and Federal Legislative Advisory Council. For reservations, call the Chamber of Commerce at 372~5656. Lundine . attended Duke University and holds a law degree from New York University. In 1969 he was elected Mayor of Jamestown where he fonned the Jamestown Area Labor Management Committee to deal with and combat a depressed ec()nomy and unemployment. The Jam est own labor-management experiment became a model for national legislation. In 1976 Lund:Jle was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives and was re-elected for five sub- sequent terms. In Congress, he served on the Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee, the Science a.nd Technology Cotrutlittee, and the Select A.:ging Committee. During his tenure in Coagress, Lwuline received national recognition for his ability t_o achieve bipart~an solutions to both short-term ~nd long-term challenges. He has advanced proposals to improve produc- tivity, to prowide for profit- . sharing, and to improve our nation's imiustrial com- petitiveness. _ Northeastern Student Suspended from Sports Following Refusal to Drug Test David Bally, a junior on the Northeastern University track team who filed Jan. 13 suit against the uni.versity over its mandatory drug-testing program, was declared ineligible for varsity com- petition last week. The school took the actio11 in response to Bally's refusal t<> sign a form consenting to t:he tests. Bally's attorney plans to file a motion : for a preliminary injunction allowing Bally to compete pending the outcome of the suit. '· · American Uitiv. · Consid·ers Naming Gym for Saudi Arms Dealer Student opinion at the : American University in . Washington, DC is divided over . mittee's Suh~cornmit:tee · on · Procurement and Military · Nuclear Systems. Stratton · through ~hi$ position is seen as responsible for the . continued allocation of projects to the Watervliet Arniory and thereby emplqying a , substantial number of area residents. Youth Suicide Rate Up lOo/o $16.5 M. Sports ·Complex Planned for Dartmouth With the growing import~nce of college facilities in deciding a l)tudent's .choh;:e .in . which college· to attend, D~rtmouth has also made the plunge into devoting a large . amount of capital and two , years' in- : plans to name the school's new · · ----..---------......----- . convenience by renovating its sports facilities, its Alumni Gym and Davis Varsity Ho.use, • on-camp~ sports center after , billionaire Saudi arms dealer . Adnan Khashoggi .. A member of the school's board of trustees, . Khashoggi has donated $5 . million toward the center's • construction. Concern has been expressed over the issue in light of reports that Khashoggi acted . as intermediary in the covert · Iran-Nicaragua arms deal. Local Representative Again Named to . Congress Chair • . U.S. Representative Samuel • S. Stratton, D-23rd District, was again named Chairman of the . House Armed Services Com- According to the National as well as building an entirely Centers .for Disease Control, the new e<,~mplex, the Berry Sport youth suicide rate is rising. Cepter. The:initial construction From 1970 to 1980, the suicide began on August 8, 1985 and is rate forthe ages 15-24, male and . expected · to . be offici,aUy female. rose 40 percent. The inaugurated in September, 1987. increase is mainly accountable The $16.5 million upgrading was to a 50 percent jump in t:Qe male made possible by. an ·initial $5 sUicide rate. for that age group . million gift .· from ·1944 Dart- as opposed to a 2 percent in- , mouth graduate Johri W. Berry, crease for females. · · along with his further con- While there is no explanation tributions and fund-raising~ tQ the trends, it is $peculated efforts. At this point, the ad.:. that \the increasing family ditional college has raised $14.8 break-ups, drug abuse, dwin- million. dling job and .educational op- · . · The complex boasts among portunities, and the growing other things a three-sided all- availability of glii)s could be glass squ.ash court, dance · factors,\ according to the New rooms, and .superior basketball York Times. facilities. c!}VECW cyoRI( .. A COLLECIDR'S .MAP. As IT WAs 150 YEARS AGO! TRAVEL BACK ADD0NEm YOUR COLLECTION TODAY! IN TIME TO 1833 I es. ANNO .UNCIN. ·G vour opportu niry to own a full-color reproduction of ont: ot the rarest maps . · prt~ducecl by Nineteenth Century American craftsman Samuel Augustus Mitchell. This It))) map; Mitchell's Tra•vetler's Guide Through the Unired Stares, is a richly detailed wealth of inforination-snowing·rhe U.S. before western expansion pushed.boundaries beyond the Arkansas and Missouri ·Territories. A .· ·c·· ·· 0 · L·· .L- ECID ... · .. . · R'S item, this mnp has been carefully reprod~ced frorn ont. of few original . . • · · · Mitchell editions still in exi~tence .. lts companion index of the same size provides a de.tai led key and listing of towns, stage, cane,~! and steamboat routes as the nation's eyes turned west following expeditions by Lewis, Clark, Pike and others. Mr1CHE . LL was a premier cartographer and geographer ofhis time, and this first-ever U.S. travel · . map appeared in 18 32. This and later maps were well-known for their at curacy and .arremion to derail Milchcll, a 40-year residem of Philadelphia, once employed 250 people as his work grew in prominence. The handsome mar set is primed on heavy parchment-finish paper, measures 171fz X 22 1 /z i nchcs and is suirahlc for framing. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! MAIL TOOAYI -------------------------~------------~------~- ORDERFORM . Yt·s, plca:.e ~cnJ rnc __ l opy(w>l ,,f M1rchl'il's Truvdlcr;s ( )UIJL· of the U.S. anhc p.tiCC of :fd0.00 ca~h. ($25;00 fm orJcr of.t e1r ITiOre). Name ___________ ~-----~----~-~---------- ·--------------- Address Cfty State '. Zip --'--~- Enclos..:d is , Check or Monev Order • ScnJ Tt1: J & F Originnls, Suire 351, 200 W. 34th Ave., Anchorage, Alaska 99503

COJVC(JRDlENSJS, Febt'iJt~rf lfi, 1987 PageS .,. . . ' . . . ~ ' . FEATURES Brandy's Continuing Adveatures -~~From Fear To Freedom?'' . . 'By ,- SHADWELLMACFLECKNOE: and·FRED~JUCKFORMAV : Today we find. our hero in search of his evening meal after a. narrow escape from a surely 4u;leousfate~ ~ep())Versthat be · have even .now begun to rue tbe return .of .Brandy The Wonder · proaches the d()orway· and observes the scene transpiring within, .He spies two familiar tow~l ~lad figures ,in a heated discussion. An··:lnterfaith Expl;orati~n· of ''Look BeardSly, tbis is my flnal offer; you stCJp bitchin' about me in c:<oncor.Uensis and you .get membersliip in this exclusive little .club and a percentage of the 1300 increase, but . no way in hell are you getting any .part -of .the parking ticket action.\ ·Passover and Easier's Signi-fi~cance for Today Dog, · · . PartTwo Guest Panelists: The JaccuzziCOnnection It was one of those.nights, one of . those ·SCHENECTADY nights .. The k~da: night . when the flash of the General Electric sign illunrlilates the skyline -of ~owntown Schenectady. A beacon to th~ men and machines who made. this city wbat lt is today. Brandy the Wonderdog is .filled with the American sp.irit · (and background radiation) which penneates the very air he breathes. Hello, something else permeates the very air he breathes, and it's strictly non- commercial. Taking the advice of an old breakfast chwn, Brandy decides to follow his wet doggie nose. As Brandy closes in ·on the familiar scentJ he re(!alls the previous times his consc~ousness was expanded by such a smell. His mind travels back t<> the fateful evening of the philosophy lab accident, but that's another story ... Anyway, back on the trail of mystery, spontaneity, and high ad- venture which are the catalysts of the· Great American Buzz. Brandy follows the smell · of Union's home .gtown corruption to the very foundation of the proud edifice, which is Union's ~~~f:~::C~~~~ at~~~~ u~i~~~o~~~~:~h·~:~~~~~ S~~~tari at for CCJtfloli c/ Jewish Rei ations 1 Nationa 1 Leon Klenicki~Contritluting Ed't FAC · · · · . League of a~Nai BIIUth, New Yo~~iityOf~i~e~ FACE: An ln1ereligjous Bulletin, Anti-Defamation · .. Brandy carefully follows the figures to observe their actions • I mside the clul;>. Entering ip.to another chamber he observes the · silhouettes undress and climb into a jacctizzi. And yes even Reagan in his surf wonks cannot · comp'are to our president in a speedo. Brandy is c:1U1lltifounded ·as he realizes th~t this room is tile ()rtgin of tl).e scent he has bee11 following. Brandy looks over at another jaccuzzi and spies three other prominent clU.b members relaxing with a bone. \Not a bad life Bob,\ -\~9 it's not C Rioabl·rerNt EveJrett-Adfu:nct Professor of Philosophy and Reli!;!LIOill Montclair State College Mont . 1 ew ersey. . 1 Thu,rs,day Evening Apri'l21 1987 OLD CHAPEL& Sponsors: Campus Protestant ~iiflistry ca.tholic campus Milllistry JeWish Student Unio~ Religious Programs.Oflice - Ad-Hoc F acuity Comlltl ittee on JeY~~iSh-Cilr..istian Dial~gt~e :Jan!\ . . . ''Whadya think D~ve.\ :~:~ 8 ~ore specific illlformation. contact the chaplains at the :~eligious Programs Office, 370 • 6618 \Mmrn ... Good stUff, and we even more housing On the Career Scene: Career Oevelopment Center In Search of Summer/Jobs By MAGGIE BOlTANO Alumni Gym. opportunities available for undergraduates to the ~C and Concordiensis. For those students looking to .spe11d the · summer someplace wai!Ill .and · .exciting, the opportunities are numerous. Perhaps tln-o~gh a few more detailed desc:rL::ptions of the wide range of li.stings obtained th11S i~r, mor-.e ad- prompted to pay a visit t() tlte CDC to see what's out there for them. Onesuch descriptioil inV()lves employment on a ·summer cruise ship. On tbat j1>b training, frequent. visitati<Jn of foreign ports, and interaction with passengers and prograllLS on board, provide the empl()yee with a wealth of _adventures a11cl Entering thrQugh~ the main:_ entrance (no, not up the stairs) Brandy proceeds unmolested into the gym's ultramodern double doored elevator. Brandy decides to stop at every floor, and see if he can pick up the scent. The smell was definitely . . un- ~z.g:t~=r~. mter Blues1 Sp. en. d. a Dau in the Big_ Ap· .. pie venturous students ...viU be As spring term ~wiftly ap- proaches and a.n occasional bout of warm weather · is directed our way;. thiHlghts naturally turn •to potentiaf summertime adivities. Employers, recognizing this tendency, have been very busy sending descriptions ()f job tries the third floor button. It I flashes on then off but no door Are ·. you interested in . P!ay which incidentall:y gave evening. (The bus will depart opens. Brandy, feeling this to be becommg a little more birth to the Don Juan legend, from the city at 7:~0 p.m.) a signal; replies with two raps of · cultured?· Maybe y<Ju would like and was writteil by Tlr:so de Those interested in spendiilgthe his doggy paw on the button. to spend a day r()arning the Big Molina. · day enjoying New York City are The light flashes twice and Apple for a change from little Althougb the play will be in also more than welcome, seats Brandy replies with one last · Schenectady? On Wednesday Spanish, Professor Camille are still available. rap. Suddenly he hears the door March 11, the Moder~· Qualtere of the Sp~nish Play tickets cost $8, and opening behind him. Before our Language ·Department will be Department will pro\Vide a transportation \\ill cost between hero fully realizes the gravity of offer~g an opportunity to see a· synQpsis in English avaiJ!lble to $13.50 ~nd $15.00 depending on his discovery, he is assaulted by Spantsh play to the entire all interested. The bm& will the amount of interest. A the sweet pungent odor .he has stude.nt body and faclllty. The leave campus at 8~00 :a.m. in deposit of $8 will be duE to been following. Brandy makes __ plaY: IS entitled \El B~lador de orde~to reach the city ill plenty Profes~~r Qualtere in his way cautiously down the S~v11la Y el Conrtdado de of tlllle to attend thE noon HumF~mtles 211 C by Monday~ dark passageway, as any good · Ptedra. '' Trnaslated this performance. For thos.e in- March 2, at the latest. Seats are wonder dog should. Brandy's me~ns, \The Trickster of terested in seeing tbe play, available o!l a first come first acute canine nearing allows Seville and the Quest of .Stone.'' there will also be ti.ilne to served basis. If you l!ave. any him to discern the all too The New York Bepertorio wander the city as well a::s dine questiDns, please do not hesitate familiar voices echoing down E~p~nol will be perf-enning the in a Spanish restaurant ilefore to contact Professor Qualtere at surpassed by your typical office job. An expected 8;000 positions are predicted to be available in this growing industry as well. But perhaps the stability of a job on shore as ~v.posed to the turbulence of · r the sea is preferable. If Sl>, the Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau has ex- pressed a concerned interest in the necessity for C()llege workers to meet the growing needs of their expanding vacation industry. Due to the shortage in th.e summer work force, wages are higher while an abundance of employment opportunities are aavailable. If this iS still n()t desirable and you have a bug for traveling, Union College is presenting a tour of medieval England from June 29 to July 12. Led by Professor Elizabeth Leesti and Dr. de Vegvar who specialize in medieval art history, the ex- cursion aspires to tour medieval England through visiting old medieval towns, exploring museums, and seeing famous sights. For more details (m any of the above job descriptions or a look at what else is being ()ffered stop by the CDC and have a look at the available in- the corridor. Brandy O~Igmal SpaniSh version of the returning to campus ill the x6587, or Andrea at x4183. ,-------~~----~ YES if is final/ Ex~mPrayer Now I lay me down to study, I pra;r the ?ord I won't go nutty . . And if/fail to learn this junk, I pra! the lord that I won ;tjlunk. But if I do, don 'tpity me at all Just lay my bones in Silliman HalL Te!l my. Prof I've done my best, Then· pile my books-upon-my chest. Now I'll try an all nigllt cram, - A~d pray I pass tomorrow's exam. . If I should die before I wake, · · That's orte less exam I'll have to take. Please ;Qin us for lunch Fridays at 12:30 in HALF HOUSE lilllll!llli llliiiiiii!Uillllllllllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllll Ullllllllllllllllllllllllllllli IIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllll What bas a Caucus-Race, a croquet• match, c;omfits, and a humming bird?? Alice In Wonderland No:tt Memorial Theatre . February-· 24-28, 1987 8:00 p .. m. $3.00/Students; .$4 .. 00/Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission lillillllllliiiiUilmmiummnmmlllllllllillnn••n•nnnninnlmummnnmlnnmmumlmlmllnnn•mmnma

Page6 CONCORIJIENSJS, F-ebruary .26, l'!JB7 .. 'FEATURE;S Philosophy Forum Wanted: Moral G·raduates The Idol in its original &pot Bring The Idol Home ByCATHYMARKES All right, so now the long- awaited Alunmi Gum is newly renovated, but the question still remains: what will become of the Idol? You know, that great malformed symbol of Union tradition which currently sits ;nnongst the piec~s of orange fencing in front of the Science and Engineering complex. I think most members of the campus rommunity will agree that the Idol loses all its dignity set facillg Carnegie.in the midst of a construction site. It's certainly not so easy to paint anymore! Thinkaboutit: move the Idol.llefOJJe spring term and the gr~s in front of the S & E may even be its true color in April or May. Since we've gotten <tlll' gym back, there's been an incredible boost in the morale of this campus com .. munity. Let's increase this sense of pride and BRING THE IDOL BACK HOME. By SARAH CALDERINI and PENNY NEUBAUER Are you aware of the vast ranges of moral and ethi~al dilenunas that you may en- counter in your future careers? Problems of :many varieties may arise between you and your superiors, or your clients and yo1.11' corporation. and they do, in fact, occur often. The Philosophy F()rum has organized a panel, comprised.of three professional business persons, to address the many ethical questions. whicb mayarise in the work place. We will meet tonight at 7:30 p.m. in 88016. plan to be there, all you preprofessionals,. to help us sort these out. The panel members will be Sal Della Villa, Program Manager at General Electric;. . Joan Gage, Director of Com- munity Service and . Public Relations for the Price Chopper Corporation; and Jim Nemec; · Branch Manager of Nor- thwestern Mutual Life · Insurance. The discussion will center around. two case scenarios that suggest possible problems that may arise on the job. These cases are as · follows: Case No.1: · The public accounting in- dustry is often accused of favoring their clients or par- ticipating in cover-ups. The following scenal.\io involves Daniel Potter and the Baker Greanleaf accounting firm. Dan is fresh out of college. He has been accepted to a respected accounting. program sponsored by B;;tker Greenleaf. Dan is assigned to audit a wholly owned real estate subsidiary (SUB). 'I'bi,s account is very important. to Baker and has given them problems btthe past. This assignment was also very important for Dan, as a good recommendation could mean a promotipn for him. But while auc;liting tile case, Dan discovered a. pl.\oblem.. 'The comp~my assessed their property value to be $2,000. 1 000 while Dan'$ estimate ·Of the property value of sub was $100',000. 1'he. $1,900,000 dif- ference is large enough to be considered substantial in Dan's opinion. · Dan's course of action: Dan first discusses the· matter with the managers Clf SUB, but they refuse to write down the true property value sinee there would then be nC»go()(j.prospect of renting it, Dan tben submits a report to his boss, Mr. Oliver, with a \sq bj eC!t·t'O-opinion\ proviso regarding the $1.9 .million adjustment. Oliver then orders him to 1; take out the pages with the · $100,000 estimate, 2) e~ress an opinion that SUB evaluated the .property. correetly ~ and 3) th~ ui!Ubject to opini,on\ designation and replace it with a clean \opiniQn.\ Dan refuses to meet Oliver's demands. They meet. Olivei\ teUs Dan that he wants no problem with the account, that no ()ne would read or care about the financial statements any way, and . , if Dan refusesto follow his orders, . he would be acting irrespon- sibly. ' ' This case raises a al.lniber of questions. First .()f all, what· is acting responsibly; both in the eyes · of Dan and his bQss, Oliver? Also, who can Dan go to if he feels he should \.blGiw the whistle\ on · the company?. Where does one draw tlie line between l)ne' s own eareer aspirations ,and ori~'s moral integrity? IsDan's.moraliiy due solely to his inexperience and 11aivete al:)out the .business world? Is there, lastly. a compromise .in this case? If $Q, What cou}d, it :be? CaseNo-2: Greg Robbins has start.ed his own construction busin.ess, Robbins~ C()nstru.ctio11 Com- pany, after his graduation from college. In the first few mClnths, business was slow bt.J.t Greg managed to get by with spot ' jobs from friends. However, in the. past few months bwliness has been picking up and the quality of the company's: work ))as begun to generate more business. Howard .and Sue Collins are two middle-aged professional people who want to finally build their ''dream house in u.pstate New York. H~ward hears of Robbins' Construction Company and, .after shopping around, decides that it will d() the best job for his money-. Greg and Howard: meet and sign a oeontract; on the construction of the house which is to be built in a time period, of eight months given a set price. Greg :knows that this is his ;first big break as this could generate futtJre in- terest and clients. '.['he lncome from this jot> Will allow •IIUn to 'Survive as well as to expand the How many of us remember that Gatesman who showed us Union's grounds before we came to this institution? Most of us clearly recall the phrase that went something like this: \Well they put it here because it was so ugly the President wanted to put it somewhere to hide it from the center of campus.\ So we laughed at that explanation, thought it was a pretty cudous-looking statue, and dismissed it an from our minds about thirty seconds later. 1 ------------------------------------~---------------------------------------------------~--------~~----------~ COlnpany. . But then came fall term, freshman year at Union. We walked to class and oc- casionally noted, . \He~ the Idol's a different color today.\ And suddenly the day arrived to make that K-Mart paint rwt, in anticipation of the idea that later that night a bunch of us should go out and do the inevitable-PAINT THE IDOL! Of course, for each of us the time, night, and people involved that first time are quite dif- ferent, yet still a part of those unforgettable freshmen year memories. \So what's different now?\ you may ask. To that I respond, \Why the location, of course!\ I'lll curious to know if the Idolis going to return to its fol'lller spot nestled behind the Ubrary's all-night study. I mean, if the College didn't want the thing to be highly visible, why .put it smack-dab in front of the S & E with a sidewalk running two feet away from it? Certainly, Union College Security has witnessed the painting of the Idol a record number oftime!J this year. How many nervous pledge class members have worriedly glanced toward the not-too-far away road thinking, \Uh-oh there's security.\ Then again, that's part of the fun. But wasn't it even more fun to know you were painting the Idol unob- served, so as to preserve the element of secrecy? After all, that was the whole idea of waiting 'til the middle of the night to paint it in the first place! Writing Center Seeks-T·utors The Writing Center will be looking for several new tutors for 19117-88, according to· its director; Prof. Alan Nelson, and interested students should speak to him as soon as possible. \The deadline for ap- plications will be May 1,\ he said, \b11t we'd be glad to talk to students now or at the beginning of Spring term.\ About .four or five new tutors will be needed for next year. The Writing Center will be entering its fourth year, staffed mainly by students, who work there about 8-10 hours each · week, in afternoons or evenings. Tutors must be good writers theniseLves, but tb,eir talents in working with other students is just as important. \We're looking for the kind of student who can learn to help other writers~ without of course just doing it for them. That requires knowledge, yes, but even· more it requires maturity, tact, patience, and willingness to help another student work through the process of good writing.\ It also requires, the director pointed out, some training and orientation to prepare the tutor for his or her duties. Tutors are expected to do a little reading over the summer., to attend a few meetings before the opening of the term in Sep- tember, and to attend weekly staff meeting$ during the year. \We ask that interested students fill out a written ap- plication, available. at the Writing Center, or from me in Humanities ZlO,\ said Prof. Nelson. \After we have some basic informaticm, we talk together to answer questions and explain how the Center works.'' Students deSirillg more in .. formation should see Prof. Nelson in Hiunanities 210, or call him at Ext. 6207. Wientnttn' s Qllenner6 & 'Orailnrs ·1fl t~ 171~ UNION SlAEET ( 518) 37 4-6647 O o./ Specializing in \ · 1° tttl'i Suede & Leather Cleaning . ~ • C~ ~c; Shirts & Blouses Laundered .. ct-S sc.O\)tl Zippers Replaced· Jeans Shot1erted 0\ Charge Accounts. Welcome · The constructiCln goes along smoothly. It goes along ~o smoothly, in fact, that Greg realizes six weeks prior to tbe expected completion dat-e th~t the job could be completed in two weeks, one month earli~r­ than anticipated. Greg i:s now faced with · a mor-al dilemma. Should he tell Howard and finish the j.ob in two weeks,. thll.S decreasing the ~ount of his income from the job? Or should lle extend the job to the eight months contracted in or-der t() . receive the full amolUlt.? The question of money vs. holl-esty is the ethical problem Greg faces. What should he do? We can apply this money vs. honesty dil~a to many other situations. -For instance; ex- pense accoUI1ts are an integl.\al part of many people's j~bs .. Are allthe expenses business people report \legitimate\? If,. upon entering the business world, yotl have an expense accoWlt, need you always be honest about what you spend company dollars on? Also,. Greg's problem raises the question of how honest .sh·ould you be with your • client(s)? Should you (and dCJ you have a right to) use your- hands-on knQwledge (If yoUr. trade in order to manipillate a d,eal to your benefit? If so, is this morally right or mrerely the \survival of the fittest\ in the trade? And.howmttcbofan obligation ,do you have t() yo:ur client to educate them om yo:ur trade? If Howard knew .abo.ut house,construction, woul,dn't he determine the same as Greg? Oh! There are so rnal)y questions in this world of ourst Professor Br-ad Lewis of· tile economics department will moderate the discussion. Please jl)in us and help yourself t() think these problems through before you may enco11nter them. Help yourself to . some pbllosophical munchies, too.

CONCORDIENSIS, Fe~ruary_26, 1!!87 Page 7 Diner of the Wee·k EyLEELACHOWDHURY and CAROL HAAS This week we had a unique din.fug experience at this little dive off campus .. The maitre'd. was not in so we seated our- selves at a cozy little table for two in the corner; it could be :for three or four if you pulled up some chairs. Admittedly, the menu was not very extensive or exciting, We cite: ~paghetti, bagels, sour cream and chive potatoes, tuna fish (chunk light or solid white), ramen noodles, oatmeal, two bags of ice, and taco sauce. On the beveretge list were water (tap or refrigerated, ll\!With or without ice),. mUk, coffee, tea or hot chocolate. We chose the refrigerated water . as well as the house specialty of the night: vegetable-noodle.eheese cas-_ serole and the chunk light tuna fish salad in pita bread. It was · Carolin~ Butler: a portrait! a,1l very good; the meal tasted just like homemade. Let's talk ·ambience. The decor was very warm and comfortable, the kind of place where you could just kick off your shoes and relax. The clientele can be described as laid-back, wonderfully stylish, incredibly chic, not to mention stunningly at~ractive,. a~ well as .pretty gosh darn fun people. The prices. were next to nothing. The service was ex- cellent. The dishes and silverware were clean! Where is .this little gem of a diner you may ask? Well, we're not going to tell you! Why ? Beeause. of the ... SPECIAL DINER OF THE WEEK MYSTERY DINER CON- TEST!!!!! . Yes, you, Union College Student,., Staff, or faculty member, can win a deluxe delectable diner dining :date with us, Leela and Carol, diner reviewers at large. Dat's right! As the winner you will not only get to dine with us, you will also write a paragraph in one of our ·upcoming columns. All ex- penses will be paida·$6.13 maximum. Send all entries to Box 1751 p.ostmarked by Wednesday, March 4, 1987. Please include your name and your box and4>r phone number. This ®Old be your chance of a lifetime! Hurry ... you may already have won. But wait, there's more ... FEATURES Talk ofTbe-Town Co~Cl()rdy recently ask~d: \Who is your favorite presidential.candidate f~r the 1988 election and why?\ photography and interviews by AI Klapper \Indiana Jones. because_ I trusthim.'' Lori Leon '88. ''It figures that the one qualified for the job knows, enougll not to become President. I was for Governor Cuornv. \ Rich Rho '89, Graig Gootmau '89. ''I don't care for Hart or Bush -I'm still hoping Cuomo will change his mind - and I think he might. He's a very bright man who has a lot vf potential. Most of the can- didates lack luster - Cuomo has it aU.\ Faith Keller, Library Secretary. \Mike Dukakis, because I'm originally from Mass. and I can now feel safe with, Cuomo out. He's as straight and honest a politician I've seen.'' Marika Baksay, Coordinator of Terms Abroad. Portrait of a Foreign Student Soldier of Wheel of Fortune ·: ]J- ?.MELissASTEWi\1\T ·', · : JJylMUL.SCHOP · , 3:. -. . .. . . . ,-... . • , casts only $30.0Jor. her to atteird - . · · '' · · · - ' ' ' .·' · the University of zurich. For the Jast- few weeks, 1\:t. Carqline Butler, an exchange student from Swit~erlatld, is spending, the year at Union in order to fulfill the term abroad. requirement imposed by her univer.sity for language majorJl. Because she is an EngliSh major and a French minor, she _ m~UJt spend a, full _year in the United States and a semester. at a .s()hool in France~ During the time spent in other nations, she bas the opportunity te learn about different societies on a firsthand .basis. Sbe was ableto come to Union . because, she received ·a scholarship which pays most of her expenses. She says that without the scholarship; at- tending a school in this coy.ntcy w(luld have been impossible. As opposed to the $10,000 tUition that we must pay each year; it The, Committee on Committeees is - looking for . students interested· in participating in·· ·the CAM.PUS .GROUNDS COMMITTEE~ which will deal with issues an~ problems related to the gr()unds of the campus. Anyone who is in teres ted please · contacf: Susan Neumann at 382-1195 or Mrs. Marra at · Student Activities Because school is .far less ex,. Herman Davis' VCR has been pensive; students can. easily as unproductive as the set of earn the money themselves and Moonlightillg. This was due to remain in school for a long-er the fact that, being a septuple periodoftirne. \Everyone is not major, he has had to write a in. such a h!U'ry to get out and 1,300 page thesis that covers start working.'' everything imaginable. For- In order to complete their tunately, M. Herman has left degree, . Swiss students must the record 'button on on the complete seven years of work. VCR. The result has been a There is no equivalent .to our combination of The A Team, Bachelor's degree. The only First Blood, and Missing in degree that can be earned is Action, superimposed over similar to our Master's degree. Wheel of Fortune. The re11ult is, One of the major differences is Soldier of Wheel of Fortune. that they are not evaluated with The show opened with the tests or papers. \After each traditional array of prizes. The cow-se, we must write a paper, announcer began his descrip- but it doesn't really matter. It's tion. \A fabulous collection of not graded. The professor just exciting priZes is waiting to be hands it back with comments.'' won today, like this $4,000 hand There is one large exam which held rocket launcher, or this tests knowledge accumulated $16,000 set of diamond studded over the seven years .of study. brass knuckles, or this $34 For this reason, the classes are million F-111 fighter bomber.'' not so structured. There is Vanna White waved from the much more research and in- cockpit of the plane. dependent study. Next, Pat Sajak carne out and According to Caroline, introduced Vanna White. She·· students at Union must read-a emerged through the curtain great deal of material and then wearing a very figure flattering briefly discuss it in class. lycra jumpsuit with a However, at her university, less ~amouflage pa~tern. Pat then material allow$ for. greater . m~~o~!Jc.ed the ~o~testants. _ depth.'Tlier~-::uso mu~h mor~- ' . --·. -~UJ;I;~s.,,tqday IS ,M};. Chuck ' of an emphasis placed on Norris. . linguistics at her university. ~uck nodded.- She saysthat ahnost hall of her Next to _him, we have deal . h' lin . . . Rambo.\ courses wit gwstlcs, \Uh uh , . whereas'Union offers only one \ . ' J yo, said Rambo. course. . Fmally we have Mr T. Hey One reason. that Caroline T, you know vowelS are only particularly likes studying here $250, and ~on~onants are free. is that she has tbe opportunity Maybe you ~ llke to add someto to ·ta~e photography courses. Yo,~r name., \ . She says \ ... it is only a hobby, Xo~ fool, snapped T. You but I really enjoy it. ... In makm fun of my name. My Switzerland you cannot study daddy was nam~d T. So w~s my photography at the university, ~andda~?Y· I ptty you, SaJak,. I you must g~ to a special school .pl~~ you. .. , . . . for the Applied Arts.,; When she Yo, T, calm down, sa1d finishes sehool, Carolirte hopes ~bo. . . . , . . to become a for-eig~ language . . You thmk Y~~ re so tough. I teacher on the htgh school or co&d take you,. . juninr college level. Overall, . iteah, . well· I could beat up, Caroline f-eels that spending ~~kY; and he destro~ed you. time in .the United States has . Y ~~ fool, that fight was b e ,, g· . d· . · ftxed. . e n ... a oo e:x;per1ence ,, 8 . T. ,, 'd N . \ , because I've learned a lot.'' ey, ' SBl· orr1s. Its ' , ' \ t ~ f j F -f I • .( • talienus·Viet·N~vets15y~rs to win the respect o( civilians. Do yo11 realize how long it has taken 1lS to get on America's favorite game show. If you don't shut up, both Rambo and I will do it for you.\ \Yeah~ OK,\ said T. The contestants then began to play the first round. After five minutes, the board showed \see spotrtui.\ \Rambo said Sajak, \Can you solve the puzzle?\ \Uhhh see, -uhhh.\ The buzzer sounded. Norris, after T hit a Lose A Turn space, solved the puzzle. He then went shopping with $2,000. \Let's see. For $2,300 I'll take the trip to Nicaragua.'' ''Geee that's a surprising choice. I was sure you'd have gone for the trip to Beirut.\ \Yeab well Beirut is kind of passe tbese days. Only wimps go there any more. Nicaragua is where all the real action is these days.'' \Oh I see. Well you have $200 left. You can take either the ninchucks or the autographed copy of G. Gordon Liddy's Will.\ \I'll take the. nin<;hucks.\ (j~,~~l~~hre:!r£\f~J::~g~ -· certificate.\ \I'lltake the gift certificate.\ The announcer then described -the trip. \You will be: flown via North·Hasenfus airlines, the only carrier with regularly scheduled service between the US and Tehranf to the Hon- duran-Nicaraguan border. Once there, y(}u will be a guest of the Contras at their resort, the Broken Arms and Spleen Hotel. It's a place that combines the Old World charms of the Inquisition with the New World _; '. . .. ' •' charms of a Central American jungle. Stay as long as you like, and· enjoy.\ By the end of the fowth round, anyone could still have won. The puzzle read, \-ILL MY LANDLORD.\ Rambo spun. \I'll take a 'C' .'' To Vanna's amazement, the rem'aining letter lit up. Rambo solved the puzzle, and won the game. For the final round, he chose to play for the F-11. \You have chosen to play for Rockwell International's versatile fighter bomber, the F- $$$. Proven in combat against both civilian and military targets, in figh~ing from Tripoli to Danang, this' plane comes fully equipped with everything exc.ept the nuclear warheads.\ \It's a person. Pick five consonants and a vowel.'' \I'll take a 'Z' a 'Q,' an 'X,' a 'K,' and a 'J.'- And I want a 'Y' for my vowel.\ \Urn Rambo, only 'A,' 'E,' 'I,' '0, and 'U' count as vowels.\ \Yeah well I learned that 'Y' can be a vowel, too.'' \Well if you insist, you can choose 'Y' as your vowel. Tell us, though, why did you pick these letters?\ \Uhhh well these letters hardly ever come up. I figured that if they came up now, I'd see 'em.'' \Interesting strategy/' Vanna turned around the one letter that Rambo guessed correctly. After the time to solve the puzzle elapsed, Vanna turned around the other letters. They spelled out, ''JANE FONDA.\ Upon seeing this, Rambo said, \No not her again, AAHHH!! !,\as he began to rWl amuk on the stage. ·Write Feature Stories Call Maggie at x4143 or Alex at 382-9330

PageS CONCORBIENSIS, Febr.uary 26~ 1987 <Jlnmrbirnsis Fo!JfUkJ at (fmon Co/leg~ /877 ~--------~ -----~---- Retain Carnegie Name For College Center Now that the Alumni Gym has been completed we must focus our attention on the opening of the College Center this spring. One ·Of the first things that comes to mind is what to name the new building. It appears that the College h~s not determined what to call it and has drifted toward going by the ''College Center\ name for now. We would like to propose that Union keep Andrew Carnegie's name on the building that he made a major C()ntribution to in 1910. As we know, Carnegie's name is synonymous with major philanthropic donations to colleges and libraries across the United States. His \contributions to mankind\ amounted to $350,000,000, inlcuding $20,000,000 to small colleges of higher education. All in turn of the century dollars! (These do not even indude donations made by the Carnegie Corporation of New York and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.) At Union, Carnegie made a strong effort to aid the engineering department. His original grant of $100,000 allowed engineering studies to be housed under one roof (the present College Center). Ad- ditionally, he donated $75,000 to the endowment which was matched by the Colege in the amount of $275,000 over the period of six years. It is clear that Andrew Carnegie made an out .. standing effort towards the improvement of American higher education. (This wasn't simply a tax deduction! ) We should continue to honor his dedication by rededicating the Carnegie name on our new College Center this spring. In the past the College ~as chosen to name its buildings · by commemorating alumni who had sacrificed their lives during major foreign wars: we have Memorial Chapel (World War I),. Alumni Gymnasium (World War I), and Memorial Fieldhouse (World War II). More recently the College has commemorated the benefactors of such buildings ·, as Becker Hall, the Peschel Computer Center, Bailey and Butterfield Halls. Let's keep Mr. Carnegie's name on the front of the new College Center and possibly make the addition of a future donor to its title. , Improving Relations Union College, Schenectady, N.Y .... Schenectady, . . . is it just a dying blue collar town? Although General Electric has made significant cutbacks in their Schenectady plant, many efforts are being made to strengthen other aspects of the area. Part of this improvement includes .the recent refurbishment of the downtc;.wn area, particularily that of Jay Street and The Proctor's Theater. Future plans have also been developed to build a large office complex to encourage business in Schenectady. This would counteract the affects of the cutbacks at General Electric~ Union plays an important role as a part of Schenectady. As well as being one of the major em- ployers in town, Union also supports the local business community as a large source of consumers. President Morris' role as a member of the Schenectady Chamber of Commerce is an indication of the vital relationship between the College and Schenectady. . . . Our college experience would be limited without the influence of our surroundings. What would Union be like witbout Price Chopper, or Ben and Jerry's? Considering the mutually beneficial relationship we share, why are the feelings between many of the residents of Schenectady and Union as cold as they are? ELECTIONS FOR EDITOR-IN-CHIEF will take place on March 11th at 4:30 p.m. Mrs. Marra must be notified of candidates' intentions by 4:30 on March~- LETTERS Leave Alice's Posters AIQne To the Editor: It has been my fortune to have been appointed an Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Arts while Professor Barry Smith is on sabbatical this Winter and Spring terms. Thus ·far the students I have encountered through my position in the theatre program have fuUilled Professor Smith's promise that as a teacher 1 would find Union students bright, talented, challenging, a cut above other college students. For this reason I am all the more stunned and mystified by the student body's response to the on campus publicity campaign for the Arts Department':s Winter .production of Allee in. Wonderland. One expects that a certain number of posters will be taken by students for souvenirs, especially when the posters are \nice.'.' However, nothing in my past experiences in college and community theatres has prepared me for the rate at which Alice posters are being stolen, and the audacity of the people stealing them. On Friday February 20 the cast began distribut~ng posters across the campus; within a very short period of time they began disappearing. One cast member reported that while she was hanging one poster another was being taken frotn811 adjacent area. A poster was removed from Professor Cllal'les Steckler's .office door { Prrif. Steckler designed the post.er). During the course of the tday and evening of Satur~ day, the twenty-first, two posters were stolen from inside the N ott MemOJ!ial while the cas and crew were there rehearsing and doing set work. Alice in Wonderland will have opemed li'ebruary 24, and Will , rtlrl for only five nights. The shoVi' represents . many long hom-s of rehearsal, and of set, ligllting~ and costume work d,o11e l:ly its compaQy.. What I W()Jlcler, as I write this letter, is ho\V many students will come to see Ali.C!e? If there are no posters tbecause they've been st()lem), where will our audience come from? An obvious answer to thU! 'problem, one might suggeBt, is for the .Arts Depa~rtrnent to b,ave mor-e posters, printed. But, as the inconsiderate people know who have taken posters, the Alice poster is special. As the show's dirEctor,. I felt the quality of work: being done by the Alice company meritE!d the expense ofthEse posters. Unhappily, the e:xpellse and time required to prmt these .posters makes it imp()ssible to replace the stolen ones in time for - their replacements to be effective as publicity. I am all the more dishear- teited for our prospects of fin- dJng an audience for. this show, because although .this is my first~ experience in theatre at Union as a. faculty member it. is not my first show I've worked on bere. •During ·Spring Term 1986 I was involved with the Mountebanks' production of Dark Ride, and last Fall with the Mountebanks' Crimes.of the ·Heart. The quality of work done by the students in both productions was superior. Area critic B.A. Neilsen gave Dark Ride an excellent review, and Eleanor Koblenz Qf the Schenectady Gazette praised the work done for Cdlnes. Yet, on the majority of night~ ..for either production the actors played to houses of less ,t;ban twenty people: Crinles opened to seven. Clearly, it. is no• easy task getting students to came to the Nott \for an evening of theatre. Now, the theft ·Of Alice posters has seriously un- dermined .our chances of reaching the poople who do wish to see live theatre at Union. I sincerely hope that my fears are unfounded, and that those who have taken the posters. for this show will attend it in the company of many of their friends. By so doing they just may begin to undo the injustice they hav~ done their fellow students. Mary Callahan Boone Assistant Professor Department of the Arts Eye Protectioa Sho·uld.Be Mandatory To the Editors: I have recently had the chance to tour the new gym, and I must say that I was very impressed. From both athletic and aesthetic viewpoints, it is a masterpiece. However, there is one thing about the n~:w facilities which I find very alarming, and feel. I must comment on. This iS the lack of a requirement for eye LeHers to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. •. All Letters to tlie Editor · must be typed · double- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more · than four people and all· writers should provide their addresses and phone. numbers for verification of the leHer. Names nor- mally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the · right to reiect letters that ·are libelous · or do oot : conform to standard of ood taste. . pr!Jtection on the squash and tacq1.ietball courts, or even the avaJ1ability of protective gogg1es at the equipment office. As~ squash player; I know that even during careful and in- telli~ent play, it is not un- comrnoll to be struck by either a ban ()f a racquet. And, even in . raeq11etball, with a softer and somewhat slower-moving ball, there is a danger of' eye injury. 'NI:Jile I was in tbe gym, -three of thE ~ourts were in use; and not one player on those three courts was wearirlg any form of e'ye protection. -·For ·f ' the protection ofthe individual and· the school, I recommend that eye protection be made man- datory for anyone using the courts, and that it be made available, along with racquets and . balls, at the equipment office. ·Consider it a small In~ vestment. Thank you. Sincerely, Peter E. Granger

Page8 Oll!ltfllrbtrnsis Foundt-d at I inw11 Coil~~ /8 ;';' ------ ------ Retain Carnegie Name For Colle,ge Center Now that the Alumni Gym ll.as been completed we must focus our attention on the opening of the College Center this spring. One of the first things that comes to mind is what to name the new building. It appears that the College has not determined what to call it and has drifted toward going by the \College Center\ name for now. We would like to propose that Union keep Andrew Carnegie's name on the building that he made a major contribution to in 191(). As we know, Carnegie's name is synonymous witll major philanthropic donations to colleges and libraries across the United States. His \contributions to mankind\ amounted to $350,000,000, inlcuding $20,0()0~~00 to small colleges of higher education. All in turn c.f the century dollars! (These do not even include donations made by the Carnegie Corporation of New York and the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.) At Union, Carnegie made a strong effort to aid the engineering department. His original grant of $100,000 allowed engineering studies to be housed under one roof (the present College Center). Ad- ditionally, he donated $75,000 to the endowment which was matched by the Colege in the amount of $275,000 over the period of six years. It is clear that Andrew Carnegie made an out- standing effort towards the improvement of American higher education. (This wasn't simply a tax deduction!) We should continue to honor his dedication by rededicating the Carnegie name on our new College Center this spring. In the past the College has chosen to name its buildings by commemorating alumni who had sacrificed their lives during major foreign wars: we have Memorial Chapel (W<J:rld War I), Alumni Gymnasium (World War I), and Memorial Fieldhouse (World War II). M()re recently the College has commemorated the benefactors of such buildings as Becker Hall, the Peschel Computer Center, Bailey and Butterfield Halls. Let's keep Mr. Carnegie's name on the front of the new College Center and possil>ly make the addition of a future donor to its title. Improving Relations Union College, Schenectady-, N.Y .... Schenectady, ... is it just a dying blue collar town? Although General Electric has made significant cutbacks in their Schenectady plant, many efforts are being made to strengthen other aspects of the area. Part of this improvement includes the recent refurbishment of the downtown area, particlllarily that of Jay Street and The Proctor's Theater. Future plans have also been developed to build a large office complex to encourage business in SchEnectady. This would counteract the affects of tbe cutbacks at General Electric. Union plays an importa11t role as a part of Schenectady. As well as being one of the major em- ployers in town, Union also supports the local business community as a large source of consumers. President Morris' role as a member of the Schenectady Chamber of Cmnrn.erce is an indication of the vital relationship between the College and Schenectady. Our college experience would be limited without the influence of our surroundings. What would Union be like without Price Chopper', or Ben and Jerry's? Considering the mutually be11eficial relationship we share, why are the feelings between many of the residents of Schenectady ancl Union as cold as they are? ELECTION'S FOR EDITOR-I:N-CHIEF will take place on March 11th at 4:30 p.m. Mrs. Marra must be notified of candidates' intentions by 4:30 on March 6. CONCORDIENSJS, February 16, 1987 LETTERS Leave Alice's Posters Alone To the Editor: It has been my fortune to have been appointed an Adjunct Assistant Professor in the Department of Arts while Professor Bar-ry Smith is on sabbatical tb~s Winter and Spring tenns. Thus far the students I have encoWltered through my position in the theatre program have fulfilled Professor Smith's promise that as a teacher 1 would find Union studeRts bright, talented, challengiRg, a cut above other college students. For tb.is reason I am all the more stunned and mystified by the student body's response to the on campus publicity campaign for the Arts Department's Winter production of Alice in Wonderland. One expects that a certain number of posters will be taken by students for souvenirs, especially whea the posters are \nice.\ However, nothing in my Jlast experiences in college and community theatres has prepared me for the rate at which Alice posters are being stolen, and the audacity of the people stealing them. On Friday February 20 the cast began distributing posters across the campus; witb.in a very short period of time they began disappearing. One cast member reported that while she was hanging one poster another was being taken from an adjacent area. A poster was removed from Professor Charles Steckler's office door (Prof. Steckler designed the poster). Durillg the course of the day and evening of Satur- day, the twentyafirst, two posters were stolen from inside the Nott Memor,ial while tb.e cast and crew were there rehearsiNg and doing set work. Alice in Wonderland will have opened February 24, and will run for only five nights. The show represents many long hours of rehearsal, and of set, lighting, and costume werk done by its company. What I wonder, as I write this letter, is how many students will come to see Alice·? If there are no posters (because they've been stolen), where will our audience come from? An obvious answer to this problem, one might suggest, is for the Arts Department to have more posters printed. But, as the inconsiderate people know who have taken posters, the Alice poster is special. As the show's director, I felt the quality of work being done by the Alice company merited the expense of these posters. Unhappily, the expense and time required to print these posters makes it impossible to replace the stolen ones in time for their replacements to be effective as publicity. I am all the more dishear- tened for our prospects of fin- ding an audience for this show, because although this is my first· experience in theatre at Union as a faculty member it is not my first show I've worked en here. During Spring Term 1936 I was involved with the Mountebanks' production of Dark Ride, and last FaLl with the Mountebanks' Crimes of the HEart. The quality of work done by tb.e students in both productions was superior. Area critic B.A. Neilsen gave Dark Ride an excellent review, and Eleanor Koblenz of the Schenectady Gazette praised the werk done for Crimes. Yet, on the majority of nights for either production the actors played to houses of less than twenty people: Crimes opened to seven. Clearly, it is no easy task getting students to come to the Nott for an evening of theatre. Now, the theft of Alice posters has seriously un- dermined our chances of reachingthepeople who do wish to see live theatre at Union. I sincerely hope that my fears are unfoWlded, and that those wbo have taken the posters for this show will attend it in the company of many of their friends. By so doing they just may begin to undo the injustice th~y have done their fellow students. Mary Callahan Boone Assistant Professor Department of the Arts Eye Protection Should Be Mandatory To the Editors: I have recently had the chance to tour the new gym, and I must say that I was very impressed. Fr(lm both athletic and aesthetic viewpoints, it is a masterpiece. However, there is one thing about the new facilities which I find very alarming, and feel I must comment on. This is the lack (lf a requirement for eye Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. All Letters to tf(e Editor must be typed doubte- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each luesday before !PUblication. All letters must be signed by no more . than four people and an • writers she»uld provide : their addresses and phone . numbers for verification of the leHer. Names nor· mally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the , right to reject leHers that · mre libelous or do no.t conform to standard of · ood taste. protection on the squash and racquetball courts, or even the availability of protective goggles at the equipment office. As a squash player, I know tbat even during careful and in- telligent play, it is not un- common to be struck by either a ball or a racquet. And, even in racquetball, with a softer and somewhat slower-moving ball, there is a danger of eye injury. While I was in the gym, ·three of the courts were in use; and not one player on those three EditQr&-in Chief News Editors Features Editor courts was wearing any form of eye protection. For the pr~tection of the individual and the school, I recommend that eye protection be made man- datory for anyone using the courts, and that it be made available, along with racquets and balls, at the equipment office. Consider it a small in- vestment. Thank you. Sincerely, Peter E. Granger JayGr~sman~ Lee Ann Schmidt David Gulliver, Christine Hong Margaret Boitano, Alex Stephens . Wendy Zimmerman. Commentary Page Editors Greg Fay, Stuart Sands Arts Editors Nancy Grundman, Julie Steinberg Associate Arts Editor Jan Goldstein Campus Page Editors Jennifer Ash, Lisa Marzilli Sports Editor Dougla~ Lloyd Assoc. Sports Editor ·.· Chris Hinckley Scie11ce Editors J()bn Bergeron, .Adam Helfand AdvertiSing Editors Jacki Bell, Lisa Ordower · Assoc. Advertising Editor Jessica Adelson Business Managers LisaKau,. Bob Koch Photo Editor Alan Klapper Copy Editor Lori Leon Subscription Editors John Bergeron., Robert .McGowan • Honorary Faculty Advisor C. William Huntley ST.AF'F: Kristi,ne Bur1lbam, Leela Chowdhury, Mary JoConley, Joy Cybul~ Chidsey Dickson,. Ilys~ Feing{)ld, Kathy Greene, Cat{)l Haas, Marjorie Hoffer, Debra B. flonig, Lori Kaplan, Cameron Kenny, Steve Konlian, wa Leidner, Cathy Markes, Gina· Mancuso, Andrew Miller, Gavin Moroon, Mike Roban; Paul Schop, Uz Seward, Mike Sheridan, Kaveh Sheibani, Mike Silberstein, Rebecca Smithf Melissa Stewart, Conrad Tatge, Beth Tumey, Mark Van Buren, R. Reed Whidden, Mark T. .Zimmerman. ·coNCORDlENSIS is published every Thursday by the studentS · body of Union College, Schenectady, New .York 12308; Publications Office:. Susquehanna l?ublication~t Irtc.; Box 388 .. Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563..a688. Subscripttonrate: $24 per year, delivered anywhere in theUilited States. Concordiensis subscribes to the Interoonegiate Press (IP). Of,fice Telephone--(~ta) niJ-6155 '• ' 1 ,, 'I ' i r l 1. I· ,, I I I I I' .I

CONCORDIE_NSIS, FebJ!Uillf 26, 1987 Page9 LETTERS COMMENTARIES · .. HBO's Head a llypocrite P AUL.SCHOP ... Frolll tJJ.e Albany Pesk TCJ the Editor, B;ill to Aid Rape Vict~ms Mr. Fuchs' went to Union. The held by all, but reserved for Vietnam War, and social and those who can afford to do so. . On February 18, Union racial inequality were issues Most are not that .fortunate. All The AIDS epidemic is a CCJUege had· the ·opportunity to enough to to.llch the lives of of us strive to make that small problem that has produced an hear one of America's cor- everyone wholivedthrough that .piece of o.ur life, that part we exponentially expanding por~te elite E!peak to his alma era. But at tile same time, it co11trol, something meaningful concern in our society. While ma1;er. I am writing this letter was an era of greater economic to ourselves; whether it is. the research scientists are to address some of the points pro~perity and larger job accuniulation of Yuppie staples, feverishly searching for a cure ma\({e by Michael FQcbs, markets. M():reover, it was not or a rewarding profession. For for the virus, legislators are cha:il:man of Home Box Office, an era of self~preservation. The we controlso very little of what attempting to take steps to cope and . a 1967 graduate .of this horrifying re~ation that all life is trUly about. No, Mr. with the AIDS problem, as well. prestigous. institution. life could enci abruptly due to FUchs, social consciousness One of those legislators is Upon going to hear Mr. nuclear :war was not to come does exi$1. Because we don't New York Assemblyman Fuclis, I p.aively expected to along for sev~ral years .. Maybe build shanty towns every week · Arnold Pro skin ( :R-103 ). hear some· pearls of wiSdom the hopes for.s()cial cllange have doesn't indicate a lack of Proskin represents the suburbs aoo11t life and his own college diminished S()mewhat over the concern for Apartheid. It is the of northern Albany and experiences. And maybe, just .past 20 years. Vet, I believe our manifestation of other issues southern. S~ratoga Counties. maybe, gain some advice from skeptiCism is fQunded. Despite tbat concern us more. For we Recently, he introduced bill someone who had \made it\ in great p()litkal concern, few of are the children of a very dif- ntllllber A-3175 .. This bill woUld corporate America. InStead, r usbave faith inthe inept. Office ferent era. require that all suspects beard a rambling spe'ech of the President; and millions On behalf of the ten or so arrested for rape and-or replete with quotes berating have marched for nuclear students who attended your sodomy be given a test to today's college. students. In- the disarm~ment,. only to witness speech, I would like to thank determine if they are earners ey:es of Mr. Fuchs w.e are anescalation In the arms race~ you, Mr. Fuchs. We trUly en- for AlPS. This information callous, insensittve college By the~.e very points, our joyed hearing about your four .would then be given to their sittdents oftbe '80s, majoring. in values, our ,C()ncerns must be years of disillusionment at · vistims, so that they could seek Yuppiesm, who don't give a different frorn those held by Union, and your perceived out any available treatment. damn about the maJ· or soc. ial . M F h ,,. I 1 mala·se 1 WI'th 11 · t d t · · . According to Jean Donovan, r. uc s. .~. es, · . worry, a ong . co ege s u en s .m p k. , and political issues of today. . with my ~ohCJrts about job general. Most importantly, it . ros m s administrative What I find most distressing opportunities. Shrinking job was great to hear about all the assistant, this bill is the first of ab()Ut Mr. Fuchs' speech is that markets anc! excessive com- \s D cia 11 y res pons i b 1 e · its kind, anywhere. No similar he .POssesses the audacity. to petition force all of us to do so. programming\ that you legislation has been introduced judge the values of today's We have been raised in an era created. Which reminds me, in any state legislature or city collEge students with the very where the dogma is to be able to when do you plan to air Rambo council, since this bill was first same ones that transcended the present the best resume. The II? proposed. sDcial revolution of the l9fWs notion of. travelling around the In a recent interview, ancl: 70's. I can· sincerely 8Jh country for~ year, or marching HowardS. Podolsky Donovan was asked whether . predate the times during which for . social ca11Ses is genuinely '87 · she felt that this bill would split ---------~==-=---------=:-:----~--.:._--------------- th,e party unity th,at the IFC .. to s· ·uppor·· t s· . Ph. Democrats and Republicans To the Editor, . · ' · : . • .. · · · . · . . Igma I traditionally exercise on ~arty evel'y vote in the legislature. member to retain his individual identity ancl activities. r F The last hill to split the party unity of the legislature was the 1984 drinking age bill. Donovan replied, ''I .believe that, if this bill reaches the floor, that it will be debated and voted on, based on its merits.\ The bill's most vocal op- ponent, to date, has been the ACLU. The ACLU believes that this bill, should it become law, would violate the rights of the~ accused. Donovan, however, has said that the ACLU has· not contacted any legislator's of· fice, including Pro skins~ s, regarding this bill. She is also uncertain as to which rights, in particular, this bill would violate. The bill is currently before the Codes Committee. As of now, no formal request for committee action has been made by Proskin, although Donovan does expect him to make one soon. If the com~ mittee approves the bill, it could go to the floor for a vote. Such a vote, however, is not likely until sometime next spring, as the legislature must act on the state's budget by April 1. Currently, there is no Senate sponsor f<lr this bill. Senator Joseph Bruno (R-43), who represents Rensselaer County, has indicated that he will co- sponsor a Senate version. During the past severa] weeKs, we are sure many of you have followed_ the incident in- volving the Sigma Phi Society. As the govefning body of the Fraternity system, we of the Interfraternity Council (IFC) feel that it is now time to speak on the situation and its cir~ cwnstances. After discussing the circumstances involved in this matter, ali incllcations point to actions taken by an in- dividqal member of the Fraternity. Despitethe fact that the activity in question took place within the Fraternity, it was still, ·by admission, an individual . action. One point abont fraternities that must be stressed right now is that they are composed first and foremost of independent thinldng individuals. This is one goat of any fraternity, to exist as a group, but for. each This is wha1 brings us to our question. When does an in- dividual ac1i()n become ·.a Fraternity matter. This iS the problem many members of the 1FC see with the decision to remov~- the eafire Sigma Phi brotherhood from its house for one year. Tl1ere are other, less severe aven11es that exist to punish the F'raternity · for the activity that took piace and still make a point. 'I\.his is the reason that social probation exists, if it is used right • .A Fraternity is placed onpr()ba:1ion and this is a warning a.gainst further derogatory ~ctivity. Obviously, the administration feels the Sigma Phi Fraternity carried enough of the r~sponsibility for the action of one individual that this entire process was bypassed. 'This is a point to which the IFC objects. A fraternity iS. a group of friends, but not a group of moters or Orwellian \big brothers\ looking into the private affairs of each brother. This also sets a dangerous precedent for any further disciplinary decisions regarding individuals within a Fraternity. The IFC wishes to see guidelines set up and followed in the future regarding matters of disciplinary actions against individual members of Fraternities and the Frater- nities as a whole. This topic will be brought up to the ad- milli.stration in the near future for discussion. 0 0 I am clueless about what career I want. In the interim, the IFC will continue to recognize and supl)(lrt the Sigma Phi Society during this period and we hope that they will overcome this troubled time and remain a strong. member of Union's Greek System. On Behalf of the IFC, Jeffrey M. McFarland President Sigma Phi Takes a Stand To the Editor, We, the brothers of the Sigma Phi Society, are writing to the community to indicate strongly that we do not condone the recent incident wliich took place in Olll' holiSe and has been described in Concordiensis dllri:ng the past two weeks. The ovf.lrwhelming m~jority of the br<ltllers. in the house did not and do not approve of what took plaee. We understand now that as an organization,. we should have been more forceful in stopping the illegal activity of one brother. in particular. We understand the college's reasoning in taking some disciplin~ry action against the house. We agree that we are guilty .of inadion, but not of approving the growing nor the use of illegal drugs. We believe that the potential loss of our house for one year is a severe penalty to pay for this inaction. We llave been sear- ching for ways.. to prove to the conunllllity. ao..d . to the . ad\{ nlinistrationtl!at we are sincere about our attitude toward the use of illegal ~u.gs. We pledge that, ~ give11. the o~~ortunity, we will make posltlve con- tribUtions to the campus through dr11g education programs and other con- structive means. We are also prepared to extend these .con- tributions t~ the community as well, through service-oriented and philanthropic programs. We accept the conditions of social probation imposed by the administration, but ask the decision concerning the loss of our house be postponed lll'ltil the administration has . had an opportunity to test our sincerity and determination. All we are asking £or is a chance to prove oulselves. The Bt~others of the Sigma Phi SoCiety The Philosophy Fa.rum Will P·resen1: Mr. Sa I Della Vi.lla, Program Manager atGE Mr. Jim Nemec, Manager at North Western Mutual 1 nsurance Ms. Joann Gage, Pubnc Relations (Community Service) at Price Chopper Professor B,rad Lewis, Economics Department A discussion Qn Business Ethics: The moral problems young people face in their careers with Prof. Brad Lewis of the Econolllics Dept. as tllemoderator. Thllrsday at 7 ::3G P.M. in Room SSOl6 Refreshments will fo llow.the presen1ation. 0 0 I have a rough idea of what career I want. [] 0 I know exactly what career I want. If you answered true to any of the above questions, Career Observation Days just might be one of the best experiences of your college years. Sign up on March 3, 4 or 5 at the Career Development center CAREER OBSERVATION DAYS: for the experience of a lifetime April 7, 8 and 9 in Schenectad~, Albany and Troy. The lnternation,al Relations Club Presents: \ Great Decisions: Pacific Basin: Alliances, Trade and Bases Wednesday, March 4 at 7:30 p.m. Ha-le House, Lower Lounge ALL ARE WELCOMEI •

'• ' 1 :, ~~ h F.'. ~ ~: I l ' i r I I' .I CONCORDIENSIS, February 26, 19/fl Page 9 LETTERS COMMENTARIES HBO's Head a aypocrite To the Editor, On February 18, Union College had the opportunity to hear one of America's cor- porate elite speak to his alma mater. I am writing this letter to address some of the points made by Michael Fuchs, chairman of Home Box Office, and a 1967 graduate of this prestigous ·institution. Upon geing to hear Mr. Fuchs, I naively expected to hear some pearls of wisdam about life and his own coHege experiences. And maybe, just maybe, gain some advice from someone who had \made it\ in corporate America. Instead, I heard a rambling spe·ech replete with quotes berating today's college students. In the eyes of Mr. Fuchs we are callous, insensitive college students of the '80s, majoring in Yuppiesm, who don't give a damn about the major social and political issues of today. What I find most distressing about Mr. Fuchs' speech is that he possesses the audacity to judge the values of today's college students with the very same ones that transcended the social revolution of the Hl60's and 70's. I can sincerely ap.. preciate the times during which Mr. Fuchs' went to Union. The Vietnam War, and social and racial inequality were issues enough to touch the lives of everyone who lived through that era. But at the same .time, it was an era of greater econoniic pro~perity and larger job Inarkets. Moreover, it was not an era of self.preservation. The horrifying realization that an life could end abruptly due to nuclear war was not to come along for several years. Maybe the hopes for social change have diminished somewhat over the past 20 years. Yet, I believe our skepticism is founded. Despite great political concern, few of us have faith in the inept Office of the President; and millions have marched for nuclear disarmament, only to witness an escalation in the arms race. By these very points, our values, our concerns must be different from those held by ~r. Fuchs. Yes, I worry, along with my cohorts about job opportunities. Shrinking job markets and excessive com- petition force all of us to do so. We have been raised in an era where the dogma is to be able to present the best reswne. The notion of travelling around the country for a year, or marching for social causes is genuinely held by all, but reserved for those who can afford to do so. Most are nat that fortunate. All of us strive to make that small piece of our life, that part we control, something meaningful to ourselves; whether it is the accumulatio~ of Yuppie staples, or a rewarding profession. For we cantrol so very little of what life is truly about. No, Mr. Fuchs, social consciousness does exist. Because we don't buUd shanty towns every week daesn't indicate a lack of concern for Apartheid. It is the manifestation of other issues that concern us more. For we are the children of a very dif- ferent era. On behalf of the ten or so students who attended your speech, I would like to thank you, Mr. Fuchs. We truly en- joyed hearing a bout your four years of disillusionment at Union, and your perceived malaise with college students in general. Most importantly, it was great to hear about all the \socially responsible programming\ that you created. Which reminds me, when do you plan to air Rambo II? HowardS. Podolsky '87 IFC to Support Sigma Phi To the Editor, During the past several weeks, we are sure many of you have followed the incident in- volving the Sigma Phi Society. As the governing body of the Fraternity system, we of the Interfraternity Council (IFC) feel that it is now time to speak on the situation and its cir- cwnstances. After discussing the circumstances involved in this matter, all indications point to actions taken by an in- dividual member of the Fraternity. Despite the fact that the activity in question took place within the Fraternity, it was still, by admission, an individual action. One point about fraternities that must be stressed right now is that they are composed first and foremost of independent thinking individuals. This is one goal of any fraternity, to exist as a group, but for. each member to retain his individual identity and activities. This is what brings us to our question. When does an in- dividual action become a Fraternity matter. This is the problem many members of the IFC see with the decision to remove the entire Sigma Phi brotherhood from its house for one year. There are other, less severe avenues that exist to punish the Fraternity for the activity that took place and still make a point. This is the reason that social probation exists, if it is used right. A Fraternity is placed on probation and this is a warning against further derogatory activity. Obviously, the administration feels the Sigma Phi Fraternity carried enough of the responsibility for the action of one individual that this entire process was bypassed. This is a point to which the IFC objects. A fraternity is a group of friends, but not a group of moters ar Orwellian \big brothers\ looking into the private affairs of each brother. This also sets a dangerous precedent for any further disciplinary decisions regarding individuals within a Fraternity. The IFC wishes to see guidelines set up and followed in the future regarding matters of disciplinary actions against individual members of Fraternities and the Frater- nities as a whole. This topic will be brought up to the ad- ministration in the near future for discussion. In the interim, the IFC will continue to recognize and support the Sigma Phi Society during this period and we hope that they will overcome this troubled time and remain a strong member of Union's Greek System. On. Behalf of the IFC, Jeffrey M. McFarland President Sigma Phi Takes a Stand To the Editor, We, the brothers of the Sigma Phi Society, are writing to the connnunity to indicate strongly that we do not condone the recent incident which took place in our house and has been described in Concordiensis during the past two weeks. The overwhelming majority of the brothers in the house did not and do not approve of what took place. We understand now that as an organization we should have been more forceful in stopping the illegal activity of one brother in particular. We understand the college's reasoning in taking some disciplinary action against the house. We agree that we are guilty of inaction, but not of approving the growing nor the use of illegal drugs. We believe that the potential loss of our house for one year is a severe penalty to pay for this inaction. We have been sear- ching for ways to prove to the community and to the ad- ministration that we are sincere about our attitude toward the use of illegal drugs. We pledge that, if given the opportunity. we will make positive con~ tributions to the campus through drug education programs and other con- structive means. We are also prepared to extend these con- tributions t~ the community as well, through service-oriented and philanthropic programs. We accept the conditions of social probation imposed by the administration, but ask the decision concerning the loss of our house be postponed until the administration has had an opportunity to test our sincerity and determination. All we are asking for is a chance to prove oulselves. The Brothers of the Sigma Phi Society The Philosophy Forum Will Present: Mr. Sal Della Villa, Program Manager at GE Mr. Jim Nemec, Manager at North Western Mutual Insurance Ms. Joann Gage, Public Rel.ations (Community Service) at Price Chopper Professor Brad Lewis, Economics Department A discussion on Business Ethics: The moral problems young people face in their careers with Prof. Brad Lewis of the Economics Dept. as the moderator. Thursday at7:30 P.M. in Room 55016 Refreshments will f.ouow the presentation. PAUL SCHOP ..• From the Albany Desk Bill to Aid Rape Victims The AIDS epidemic is a problem that fuas produced an · exponentially expanding C()ncern in our society. While . research scientists are feverishly searching for a cure for the virus, legislators are attempting to take steps to cope with the AIDS problem, as well. One of those legislators is New Yerk Assemblyman Arnold Proskin (R-103). . Proskin represents the suburbs ()f northern Albany and ' southern Saratoga Counties. Recently, he introduced bill number A-3175. This bill would · require that all suspects .arrested for rape and-or sodomy be given a test to tletermine if they are carr1ers f()r AIDS. Tilis information would then be given to their vistims, so that they coald seek out any available treatment. According to Jean Donovan, Proskin's administrative assistant, this bill is the first of its kind, anywhere. No similar legislation has been introduced :in any state legislature or city council, since this bill was first proposed. In a recent interview, D()novan was asked whether she felt that this bill would split tile party uNity that the D~mocrats and Republicans tre~ditionally exercise on nearly every vote in the legislature. T F The last bill to splU the party unity of the legislature was the 1984 drinking age bill. Donovan replied, \I believe that, if this bill reaches the floor, that it will be debated and voted on, based on its merits. '' 'l'he bUI's most vocal op- ponent, to date, has been the ACLU. The ACLU believes that this bill, should it become law, would violate the rights of the accused. Donovan, however, has said that the ACLU has not contacted any legislator's of- fice, including Proskins's, regarding this bill. She is also uncertain as to which rights, in particular, this bill would violate. The bill is currently before the Codes Committee. As of now, no formal request for committee action has been made by Proskin, although Donovan does expect him to make one soon. If the com- mittee approves the bill, it could go to the floor for a vote. Such a vote, however, is not likely until sometime next spring, as the legislature must act on the state's budget by April 1. Currently, there is no Senate sponsor for this bill. Senator Joseph Bruno (R-43), who represents Rensselaer County, has indicated that he will co- sponsor a Senate version. D 0 I am clueless about what career I want. 0 D I have a rough idea of what career I want. 0 0 I know exactly what career I want. If you answered true to any of the above questions, Career Observation Days just might be one of the best experiences of your college years. Sign up on March 3, 4 or 5 at the Career Development Center CAREER OBSERVATION DAYS: for the experience of a lifetime April 7, B and 9 in Schenectadx, Albany and Troy. The International Relations Club Presents: Great Decisions: Pacific Basin: Alliances, Trade and Bases Wednesday, March 4 at 7:30 p.m. Hale House, Lower Lounge ALL ARE WELCOMEI

CONCORDIENSIS, February 26, 1987 llllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll What has a Caucus-Race, a croquet-match, comfits and a humming mushroom??? · Alice In Wonderland Nott Memorial Theatre February 24-28, 19.87 8:00p.m. $3.00/Students; $4.00/Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission Free Food A.D. Phi needs waiters and waitresses to serve food and wash dishes for free food and salary. · Call 382-9688 Ask for Dave Weeks GERMAN . LANGUAGE TABlE every 'Friday 12:30- 1 :30.p.m.,. Hale House TELL THEM YOU SAW. /TIN CONCdRDY · [ . Deadline March 30 j' (Ask Ab.out It- Humanities 210) or leave message with JOIN US FORA FREE BRUNCH FOLLOWED-BY A· DISCUSSION ON SUNDAY, MARCJ1 1 at 12:30 your tfr number. IN THE KOSHER KiTCHEN .... EVERYONE IS WELCOME ~================~~======== WOMAN'S WEEK IS COMING SOON ... DESIGN THE~-~ AND WIN -~ (- TURN IN IDEAS TO STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE BY MARCH 9 the PHOTO ·CLUB cordia{{y invites you to preview ... wort<§ for tlie winter We afso invite. you to tlie judging Sunday at 2:30 {refreshments wi(( 6e servec[) f':Jtt;E 838 Eastern Ave 393-2829 · :0$(, 'J,l)t;:Jty Special :E\e\y ':on.d:a.y Nf.9ht SUN. 3 :DO t:OO 24 Cut Cheese PLZZQ. $8.00Ptus. noN. 3:00 . 1:00 5Dc O:F~ on a,ny Kot .· 'JU£8. CLOSED 0 .. c. 0 r-\ s ... r:.. WED. 3 :DO I :0 0 .. .,.,., ..-u TKUR. 3:00 1 :DO Catzone or Dinner fff: ~;gg J;gg S'LX f'OOT SUBS

CONCQRDIENSIS, Febru11ry 26, 1987 Pagett . . . __ KA Caba.ret lSY CHIDS~Y PICKSO!N ?oetry.is alive in song,:i:atUnor in mo'Vement, empathy -is not :dead! I'll tell you how I lmow. .R~d the \IVhole thing. It was Thur$day night and, coiiilting the day's academic lD~ll _ and the whoUy :unac- . com.odaUng weather, my ·l!\OJ:ale had pit~ed· bac~w~ds. I'm there_ iri my room, rock bottom, desparing in the most pitiful way when ·my roommate al)noqnced himself wi:th a kmck-knock and presentee[ me with a ticket to KA Caooret Night. Now, I h~d a decisii~Jn to nj,ake and tb.e choice of }lap- pines~ over sadness is nevrer an easy one b~cause: {we lmo\l'l tlili;;, by the by) the ingredients of each are .unknown to ilS tWho saw to this?'). lt doesn't really niatter though because luppy, - sa;lll or indifferent; those who rnal;le it to last week's show were transp()rted to Who- knows-where by as · fille an occasion of Music and C<Jmedy as any Medeival-Fest. My aesthetics were stretched b~yond its limits and into .and- .liEyond the .bounds of human critical faculty. I mean it. ·This was no mllSeum tour struggling tokeep your interest at hand, bay:illg at the guide's insistence of that piece's novel spirit. For one thing, this was .a bar and aJ)sent was ·the affection of stupid importanc.e (indulge ·me). There was. beer, this is for certain, but what held us.ill that · twilight between inebriety and sobriety was the incrEdible talent that resounded in our ears and alighted in our -~yes. This was- High Art mad~ easy and entertaining to run aground ··the critical suspicion: Gf a 'learned mind'. This was revelation made fun. Uke I said, it would be boeyond me to convey all the finer 11otes of music pl-ayed or pursu~ the meanings of the song$ or, honestly, anything so wllat I will do instead is give an acknowledgement of each performance- · Dave Wasser has a voice so sweet to penetrate eve11 the most reluctant romantic lleart. His music surroWlded us with its testimony to love as f~lt by an insomniac vainly trying to rescue his mind by reealling thag figure which pains biltl the m()st. Bob Katzman delivere(i as soulful a display of frustrated · ambitions and abutted dreams as any tragic play. Bob Pylan, Van Morrison, his own. jazz pieces, and the pick~d-up version of The Brook That Bounds spilled over one an()ther and flooded our ears with toe- tappin' delight. · I held:my breath forT. W al~b as hetumed and twisted objects of vacying difficulties in the air with the\ concent.rated ease which I might, given a clear- headed. morning, maneuver my cheerios In the bowl. It was just that good. Why, at the many circuses and fairstbat I went to as a ldd, did I never feel the impossibility, of training free fall ·objects in paths yet un- discoveredinNature? T;'sshow didn't have half the fan fare or any of the professional sUliness of the Big. Tent, but by the sheer lack of stage presence and by the li,ght of unPolished ex- pertise, my jaw hung open. Meserve confused himself and the audience with an equally impossible· art of his own devising~-the polemic exercise. of inverted explication (he says, firstly; that e.e. cummings writes in small letters and later that the rejection of traditional literary fmm is, in actuality, a still greater acceptance of the true aims and purpose · of Literature). Meserve is not a rambling idiot as I would think ' some in the crowd might con- Clude--he is exaggerated, condensed and to his brothers and· to me an example of mammoth potential turned inward; outward, anyw:ard but through the accepted channels of academia or clear, practical .purpose. Meserve is all right in my book-maybe even a hero- aware of his consumption, unyielding to the scrutiny of the \Other Guy,\ and ungreedy of the ridiculousness with which we are all certain laces our every word, action, thought. Sean Griffin, the M.C., gave a great tribute to T and his partner who sung acappella to the melody of American Pie. All but his introductory remarks were .furmy and, again, the tribute was great. However, I thought his disclaimers con- cerning the fact that Kappa Alpha was not supporting any charity or cause contributed to nothing but the flippantness and nonchalance of a disinterested pose-but maybe that's just my own touchiness on the subject. Whoever that mad-cap wrapper was who screamed his garbled IJ1essage into the mike and into my face, I take my hat off to you. I love obscene art. Steve Miller says you can only see the stars after a setting sun and as for the company bought at $1.50 last Thursday, this is true. And more. Coming up this spring . . . INTERNATIONAL WEEKEND 1987 ~ponsored by lnte;rnabonal 'Students Union · •' •'., Jan and B:uddy at The Movies Some Kind of Wonderftll Lee Thompson, Eric Stolz, Mary stuart Masterson written by· John .Hughes Cr.ossgates Cinema PG---13 Did you enjoy the film Pretty in Pink? If your answer is af- firmative then you must view John Hughes' latest film, \Some Kind ,of Wonderful\. This new film is quite simiiar to \Pretty in Pink\ except this time the protagonist is a male from the wrong side of the tracks instead of a female, a painter instead .of a seamsti·ess, a mechanic instead of a clerk, and has a tomboy for a best friend instead of a tomgirl. The plot of the fihn does have a· few original twist~, though not many. ''Some Kind of Wonderful\ focuses _ on a high school student, Eric StolZ, who spends the majority of his free time gazing in awe at his dream girl, Amanda Jones, played .by Lee Thompson. Keith,. the student played by Stolz, cannot compete with .Anlanda~s rich, popUlar, and trendy beau. When Amanda catches her boyfriend with another girlshe agrees to go out on a date with Keith. Mary Stuart Masterson, Keith's tomboy chum, tries to warn Keith that Amlll)da is only using him to get ·back at her boyfriend and the date ,is a joke. Keith's sensitive, artistic nature does not allow him to believe the date is a. hoax until the actual day before the date. Towards the end of the film Keith makes many important realizations that seem to reflect John Hughes' favorite theme: \loss of innocence.\ ''Pretty and Pink\ was quite a hit just as \Some Kind of Wonderful'' is destined to be. John Hughes has written anotherteenmage crowd pleaser. This film contains the amunition to attract every high school student in America (America with a c not a k) into its audience. Buddy and I can attest to this teenage lure because when we ventured to th.e sneak ·preview of ''Some Kind of Wonderful\ we were surrounded by what seemed to be all of the teens of the. Capital District. All three stars .of \Some Kind of Wonderful'' are sure to be featured in the next issue of Tiger Beat Magazine, if they have not appeared already. Each star has his or her own magnetism and portrays the character quite convincingly. In the realm of teen films, \Some Kind of Wonderful\ receives a B+. A'lice In Wonderland By MARJORIE HOFFER The original \Alice in Won• derland\ by Lewis Carroll is not . merely the stot·y of Alice lost in a strange land. What has been adapted for cartoon movies and elementary school plays is in fact much more bizarre. However, the Manhattan Project's version of \A:lice\ i$ the most interesting in- : t~rpretation .ever seen. It took the· company two ·and a half years to finiSh their im- provisational . version of this twilight zone . tale. The Art Department at Union deserves much credit for attempting this difficult production. The stage was sparsely set for cast of props. When the play opens, Alice (Kerrie Ticknor), is sitting on a boat, which is comprised of her fellow actors. She then is abandoned after a· tumbling routine and begins her journey into .the wonderland. Growing and shrinking Alice is confused by Lewis (Steve Brown), who tricks her with Carroll's riddles. The scenes in the first part of the play are S()metimes a bittoo odd. Hard to follow, the audience risks becoming as lost and disoriented as poor Alice. However, the saving grace .of those few encounters are the humorous characters. For example, after Alice finds herself on dry land-she is ' surrounded by the likes of those in Bellevue. The most amusing character of all was ap· propriately named the \Dodo\ played by Katie Boyd (whose performances in other scenes were also superb). Yet, as the show moved along, the ad- ventures were easier to follow. The Mad Hatter's tea party was an utter delight. With Tony Pallone's and Craig Ratner's talents the script became wonderfully witty. In .fact, the entire cast appeared to have relax:ed by the second half as especially performances by Michelle Maratto (Duchess and the White Queen), were truly hilarious. Though some out- shone others at_ times, the cast of eight did a most com- mendable job. Many of the scenes required some tllinbling and gymnastics-which were CastofAIIce In Wonderland, ex:ecuted with impressive skill. Kerrie Ticknor who kept her concentration as the lost Alice throughout the play, (no mean feat in this production) deserves attention. Melissa Bloom, Rachel Elfenbein, and Steve Brown all conquered the challenge of playing mUltiple characters with poise. Sometimes a neglected aspect, and often not mentioned, the sound design in. Alice (by Donald P. Johnson) was fan- tastic. Directed by Mary Callahan Boone, this play certainly must have posed many obstacles to the actors. Yet, by the dress rehearsal, the only problem Boone cited was the pacing in some scenes. CongratuJations to all who were involved with the taxing job of putting \Alice\ together. The fact that the work began as early as the second week into the term is no sur- prise. Efforts have clearly been rewarded with the final per- formances. Perhaps one of the most unique shows to hit Union, \Alice\ was an hour and half of eccentric entertainment.

Page l2 CONCQRDIENSIS, February 26, 1987 . . . . ~ . --·- . . - .. - .;.- ... '---'------ .. --·-.:~-.~-~.,......--=--- .... -- ~-- -........--~ ... -- ... -·- -- __ ..:...,... ....... ~-- ·-- }'--. ~ ....-). . . THE ARTS Arts Briefs Albany Symphony The second performance by Vanguard•Albany Symphony will take place on March 15 at 3:00 p.m. at the Palace Theater in Albany. The concert is for listeners of all ages, but is especially for those from 6-12 years of age. The concert will offer music from the seven- teenth century to the present day. The audience will par- ticipate dUring the presentation in order ta assist them in learning how music wo~ks. The Three Sisters The Nott Memorial will be the site of a performance of \The Three Sisters\ on Friday, 1\.!arch 6 at s·p.m. Tickets are ~.3.00 for students and $5.00 for the general public and can be purchased. at the Students Activities Box Office located on the first floor of Old €hapel. For further information call 37o- 6156. Professor Tracht- enberg Speaks P r .o f e s' s o r M a r v i n Trachtenburg ~11 speak on \Interaction of Monument and Site at the Palazzo Vecchio\ in Florence. His discussion will take place on March 9 at 4:30 in SS016. A reception will follow in the Arts Atrium. The First SynthBash! The First Annual Synth Bash! will take place Dn Tuesday, March3 at 4 p~m. fu Room 315 of the Arts .BUilding. It will consist of pieces and works in progress by students in \Composition of Tape\ taught by Professor Thomas Ross. It will be a combination of recording tape and .synthesizers with some live performances. Admission is . free and all are welcome. Uala of Stars· On SW1day, March 8, Proc- · tor's Theatre will present a Big Band Gala of Stars with such greats as Johnnie Ray and the Four Lads. Tickets are $14, $12, and $8 and can be purchased at Proctor's Theatre and all community Box Offices. For more information, call382,.3884. Margaret Avery at R.P.I. Miss Avery, who starred as \Shug\ in the film \The Color Purpl~'; wi1l be appearing on Friday, February 27 at 8 p.m. in Room 3510 of the Sage Building . on the RPI campus. Admission is $2.00 for the general public. George Carlin On Friday, March· 6, Proc- tor's Theater will be proud to present comedian George Carlin at 8 p.m. Tickets are $15.50 and $13.50 and are available at Proctor's Box Office, Conununity Box Offices, all suburban Carl Co. stores and Drome SoWid. ) At Procto-r's ••• ••Of Mice and Men'' By MAGGIE BOJTANO From_ its initial premier in New York at the Music Box Theater in 1937 to its most recent production by the Syracuse State at Proctor's Theatre on F1ebruary 17, John Steinbeck's ''Of Mice and Men\ has established itself to be one of America's most well known and poignant dramas. It is a touching story of the friendship between the -oafish Lennie and his self-appointed guardian, George. \Of Mice and Men\ constitutes a compelling por,. trait of the American Dream. Actors Matthew Kimbrough (Lennie) and Ron Perkins (George) vividly portray the plight of the migrant worker. Desperately searching for a . . plac-e of their own., a farin and land they can ruq. co .. operatively, George and Lennie dream together about their ideal, but their aspirations never reach the point beyond which they might have the opportunity to. be crushed. Under the sltillful direction of Arthur Storch, the whole team of actors achieved a high level . friendshi..P with George rnedt~ deep admiration. The wide range of thought· p~ovoking topics touched upon through the drama was striking. It inspired compassion for the destitute and han- dica,pped, outrage at racism against black:s, and final'Iy sympathy for the hopeless situation of the migrant worker Matthew Kimbrough.alid DarrYl EdWards of sincerity and authenticity. The same depressing reality discussed in English classrooms all over America was depicted once again on stage with all the force of its . initial · printing in 1937. Instinctively the viewer em- pathasized with the childlike yet harmless character of Lennie while the strength of his bond of of the- '40's' who had no real home. Stage <iesign was both s~n­ sitive and expert at producmg the correct atmosphere in the barn and on the river. The set and lighting coupled with the actors' skill and gestures an culminated in a poignant production of one o( America's most renowned classics. Go See ALICE! Nott~ Memorial, Theatre February 24-28, 1987. 8 .p.m. 9:00 lN OLD CHAPEL 11:00 IN THE PUB ll I · I •. I I I I I ' ) \ I I ., 1- I I . I •·. 11:00--81 WI 2 ID'S If) 1.. ·O +- u 0 I- 0.. 0 >- ·If) v +- I- :::> 0 u l ~~n I· S1.50 IN'CLUDES 111·· ~~ ;.FOOD AND DRINKt~ - m hi\ · m~t lmf\' .• fd ~ ... 1 .... ~ c .. (.! .... c: 0. E (J. c It c It ::2 It s:::: c ;:: It s:::: ... Ill +- s:::: - .... 0 > Ul QJ +- 1... :::> 0 u

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, F(!brua1y 26, 1987 THE ARTS Arts Briefs Albany Symphony The second performance by Vanguard-Albany Symphony wiil take place on March 15 at 3 :00 p.m. at the Palace Theater in Albany. The concert is for listeners of aM ages, but is especiaHy for those from 6-12 years of age. The concert will offer music from the seven- teenth . century to the present day. The audience will par- ticipate during the presentation in order to assist them in learning h~»w music works. The Three Sisters Tile First SynthBash! The First Annual Synth Bash! will take .place on Tuesday, March 3 at 4 p.m. in Room 315 of the Arts Building. It will consist of pieces and works in progress by students in '' Compasition of Tape\ taught by Professor Thomas R~:>ss. It will be a combination of recording tape and synthesizers with some live performances. Admission is free and all are welcome. Gala of Stars At Proctor''s ••• 11 0f Mice and Men\ By MAGGIE BOITANO From its initial premier in New York at the MW!k Box Theater in 1937 to its most recent production by the Syracuse State at Proctor's Theatre on February 17, John Steinbeck's ''Of Mice and Men\ has established itsel:f to be one of America's most well known and poignant dramas. It is a place of their own, a farm and land they can run co- ope:ratively, George and Lennie dream together about their ideal, but their aspirations never reach the pcint beyond whkh they might have the opP-Jrtunity to be crushed. Under the skillful direction of Artlmr Storch, the whole team of actors achieved a high level friendship with George merits deep adffiiration. The wide range of thought- provoking topics touched upon through the drama was striking. It inspired compassion for the destitute and han- dicapped, l>Utrage at racism against blacks, and finally sympathy for the hopeless situation of the migrant worker Ul '- 0 - The Nott Memorial will be the site of a performance of \The Three Sisters\ on Friday, On Sunday, March 8, Proc- tor's Theatre will present a Big Band Gala of Stars with such greats as Jolrnnie Ray and the Four Lads. Tickets are $14, $12, and $8 and can be purchased at Proctor's Theatre and all community Box Offices. For more infClnnation, call382-3884. . u i 1\.·• lrch 6 at 8 p.m. Tickets are ~J.OO for students and $5.00 for the general public and can be purchasecl at the Students Activities Box Office located on the first floor of Old Chapel. For further information call 370- 6156. Professor Tracht- enberg Speaks Professor Marvin Trachtenburg will speak on \Interaction of Monument and Site at the Palazzo Vecchio\ in Florence. His discussion will take place on March 9 at 4:30 in SS016. A reception will follow in the Arts Atrium. Margaret A very at R.P.I. Miss Avery, who starred as· \Shug\ in the film \The Color Purple\ will be appearing on Friday, February 27 at 8 p.m. in Room 3510 of the Sage Building on the RPI campus. Admission is $2.00 for the general public. George Carlin On Friday, March 6, Proc- tor's Theater will be proud to present comedian George Carlin at 8 p.m. Tickets are $15.50 and $13.50 and are available at Proctor's Box Office, C()rnmunity Box Offices, all suburban Carl Co. stores and Drorne Sound. touching story of the frie11dship between the oafish Lennie and his self-appointed guardian, George. \Of Mice and Men\ constitutes a compelling por- trait of the American Dream. Actors Matthew Kimbrough (Lennie) and Ron Perkins (George) vividly portray the plight of the migrant worker. Desperately searching for a Matthew Kimbrough and Darryl Edwards of sincerity and authenticity. of the· '40's' who had no real The same depressing reality home. discussed in English Stage design was both sen- classrooms all over America sitive and expert at producing wa~ depicted once again on the correct atmosphere in the stage with all the force of its barn and on the river. The set initial printing in 1937. and lighting coupled with the Instinctively the viewer em- actors' skill and gestures all pathasized with the childlike yet culminated in a poignant harmless character of Lennie productioll of one o~ America's whjle the strength of his bond of most renowned classics. Go See ALICE! N~ott Memorial Theatre February 24-28, 1987. 8 p .. m. $3.00 Students/$4.00 Faculty & Staff/$5.00 General Admission 0 ... c. - 0 >- Ul (]) - ... ::J 0 u Arts Happenings · l mr 1 r---'\'; ~hi ~~~!lli@; ·'' Feb. 2& OM Campus: Ballet-ohio Bailetat 3 p.m. at Proctor's F.eb. 27 On Campus: Mnvie: Death Race 2000 at 7:30 & 10 p.m. in SS016 thru weekend Movie: RoadWarri()t at3;20& 11:20 p.m. in SS&16 thru w~ekend Off Campus: Feb.28 Off Campus: Mareb20n Campus: March 3011 Campus: Mareh 4 on Campus! March ti On Campus: Mar~b60nCampti: Mateb ! Off Campus: March 3 Off CampllS:. March 9 On Campus: Winter Improvisation Series at 7:30 in Arts Studio Play: B.L.A.S. at 1::36 p.m. in Memorial Chapel Concert: Pat :Metheny Group at 8 p.m. in Palace Theatre. For tickets .::all 465-4663 Movie: Death Race 2000at7!30&10.p.m. inSS016 Movie: RoadWarti'Or at 8:20 & 11:20 p.m. inSS016 Play: A;li(!ein WGnderlandat3p,m. in theNott Concert: Union C<lllege Ou.tch Pipers at 6:3& p.m. in Old Chapel Dining Hall Chuck Mang()ine at 8 p.m. it1the Egg Dance Ensemble ~nts: Pieces in Progress, 8:15. p.m. in Perfortning Arts Studio Movie: Rescue atEnteb:be at7!30&9:tun. at~l~. Free. Movie: The HllStler at 7:30 &: lOp.m. at SS016 First AnnuaL Synth Basht! At 4p.m. in Room 315()f the Arts Building Film on Andreas .Palladio and H. H. Richardson from3:30to lO::tO p.m. in Room 211i A.tts. · Concert: Polisili Cfu;tmber Philharmonic Orchestra at 8 p.m. at Memo~ial Chapel . ... c· . . , t 7 ao· Dance Lecture Demoostration: Locinda Childs Dance om~ny a . : · p.m. in the Nott Play: Thne Sistel'S at 8 p.m. in the Nott. Fur rn~re information eaJl376- 6150 George Carlin atllp.m. at Proctors Ballet: Bershire Ballet presents New Dimensions in Dance at a p .. m. at Proctors Big Band Gala .()f Stars at7 p.m. at Proctors Lectw-e: Prof. Marvin Trachtenberg speaks on \Intera<Jticm of . Movement\ and site at the Palazzo Vecchi\ at 4:30 in SSOl{;. A reception to follow in Arts Atrium 9:00 IN OLD CHAPEL 11:00 IN THE PUB II I I I I I I I i I Q_ ;;;) 0 .... 0 .,_ c <II E <II Ol Ill c Ill ~ Ill c 0 :,:: Ill c .... <II +- c 0 >- IJ) <II .,_ .... ;;;) 0 u

ro t: 0 :t= ro t: !... Ill +- t: CfJN(:ORDiENSIS,. PeiJruory/IJ, 19117 ·- Page 13 _,___._...___.. ~ . ' - . ' . - Festival On Ice :t)yLIZA LEIDNER Last Saturday night I took a detour 'from the normal Union Coilege fraternity party social route and headed to Proctor's for an evening to· relive my childhood. 'l'o r:ny surprise, the small theatre stage was c~n­ verted· into an ice skating ring, only 52 feet QY 32 feet in dimension. Festival on Ice began. The performance was headlined by the world famotl$ pair stating partners, Tai Babilonia 7 and Randy Gardner, with a special-guest appearan<:e by Selltt Hamilton.- The audience was in awe from the verymomentthe lights dimmed and the s~ter~ took the ice. Festivoal on ·Ice began a few years back in Lake Tahoe with. Dorothy Hamill, Tai and Randy. The idea of skating on a theatre stage was new and seemed to dazzle the audience so the tb.ree decided to take the show on the road. The show is presently on its third National Production on the road·, selling out to audiences in cities throughout the United States. The duo of Tai and Randy amazed the crowd with their skating ability and various ballet moves on the ice, in- cluding inverted positions one could not even iinagine being performed over cushioned mats, let alone oil the ice. The highlight of their performance were· ill the numbers 'On Broadway' and 'Harlem Shuffle' as· the audience ap- plauded with unending en- thusiasm. Tai and Randy have been working together since the early 1970's, astounding audiences throughout the wo:rld. In 1979, they were crowned the Wortd Figu·re Skating Chamipons in Vienna, Austria. After injuries led to an un- . fortunate disappointment in the Qlympi()S, Tai and Randy went professional in their first performance with the Ice Capades. The duo has been seen - in various performances since, including \Festival on Ice\ and \fVlr. T. Christmas Special\ to name but a few. .. On a personal level, Tai and Randy deny that their relati<ln:ship is anything more than· platonic, although the two admit that their one try at a romantic relationship was interesting, but not for them. They see themselves more like best friends who are able to read the other's thou,ghts Scott Hamilton without much diffccUlty. Their extra·ordinary performance attested to this. The special guest per- formance by Scott Hamilton was the high point of the evening. Through the numbers \42nd Street\ and \Kyrie\, Scott charmed the audience; young and old alike. He dazzled the crowd in his Broadway routine, sending. ice mist flying into the crowd. Who could believe that it was possible to tap dance on ice? Scott made it look easy. His backflips sent the audience clapping in an uproar. Scott, who has been the world's most celebrated male figure . skater :since 1981, has eight national and world titles to his credit, including an Olympic Gold Medal .from the 1984 Winter Games in Sarajevo~ In 1987, Scott will.continue to be a commentator .for CBS at the amatellr' competitions in ad- dition to being key spokesperson for local Denver ... corporations a11d natiomi:l foundations. He b.as been ofte11 r-eferred to as .a· ''c,pint-sized pGWerhouse'' wht:JSe skating .ability will contilllul to deligltt audiences for years.to come. A strange but amusing in· terlude in the even:ing was a performance by Philip Wellford, a comic juggler wh<~ V'Yas ·the only individual not t() put on skates that evening. Well'ford kept t:he audience laughing for 20 rnin11tes; HE juggled everything from bananas to balls, broccoli t() 'Wlicycles. In one part ()£ hi5 !lumber, he asked f<>r audience partjcipation. Ri~h;u:d, a :gentleman from tlle front row, eame on stage to help ~ellford j;uggle fire torclles from thE llllicycle. No, the ice did not 111elt, but Richard almost did. Wellford's mQ].tifarious talents !)rovided an extra delight to the e:-vening. Not to be overboked are the members of the skating en- s~mble without 'Whom the .performance would have been Incomplete. They added an additional dime:nsion to F'estival on Ice. Tbeir numbers included \Tomorrow\ and \Moodido\ as well as helping T\ai Randy and Scott in other llllmbers. They sbtJuld be SIF J)1auded. When the show was over a:pproxirnately two llours after- it began, the audieilce gave all ti:Ie performers a . standing O\Vation. Pr.oceedirlg heme witlt g]ittering eyes at~d a warm smile on their faces~ the audience remar-ke!l that this was a perfonnanc:e that they'd n~ver forget. As \Eichard\ .put it: \Itwas.quiteasltow. I really e11joyed it!\ Unjon College Choir Performs ByJOYCYBUL On Sunday, February 22; the Union College Choir performed at 3:00 in the Memorial Chapel. Professor Hugh Allen Wilson conducted the singers, and Ms. Elinor Farnmn accompanied the. choir on the organ. The repertoire coll$~etl. of pieces from different centurieS. However, the llmit .of time required that. not everything on the repertoire be performed. ProfesSor Wilson said, ''Today we can only perform about two- thirds of our selections. Hopefully, we can sing the rest at a later date.\ Several pieces which were perfol'Illed were '~Alleluia 11 , written by T. L. .Victoria, \Blessed are the Faithful\ by Heinrich Schuetz, and \Ave Verum Corpus\ by William Byrd. Trisha Feeney, '88, is the president of the chorus. \I enjoy being president because I enjoy working; with people my own age. In· the spring, we hope to arrange a joint concert With W.P~I. and Middlebury. Next fall, hopefully, we will be able to travelto England to sing.\ Jean Beaty also '88,. claims, \I really enjoy singing~-especially at other coDeges because we get to meet many new people. During spring break we will be· going down t<i Florida to perform. We'll be singing mainly in Miami and Ft. Lauderdale in ehurches, colleges · and synagogues. lt shollld be lots ()1 fun.\ Candy B11tts 1 '~, says .~f Professor Wilson; \lie's a great ehoir director-he's very ell• thusiastic and puts in a lot ~f time to the choir.\ Their singing was bealltiflll and the acoustics. of Memorial Chapel magnifietl their talent. many times over- Profe$sor :Wilson did a supe~b job .of botll conducting the siilgers a11d alw of temporarily ac£ompanyinlJ them on the pian(). During a brief break in the PI'OJ!ram, the drawing for the Fl()rida-plane- t.icket raffle was held. ·rronically, the winner of .the L\\affl~. was the vioo-J)resident ()£ tlte choiri Diana Frauss, '88. · . 'THE ARTS ArtS Briefs Dutclt Pipers The Union C()llEge Dutch • Pipers will be performing \A • .Performance ·Of Pr:eposterous Prcportions\ on Saturday, February 28. 'l'his event will • take place at 6:20 in the Old . Chapel Dining Hall. Special guests will be The Williams College Ephoria as well as Union's own Gar'llet Min- strelles. \Almost Real People.'~ at The Museum The New Y()rk State Museum's lectllr'e for Sunday, March 1 will be entitled \Almost Real .Pe()ple\. Tom . Culnan, exhibit specialist will give an inside vi~w of the craftwork and talent that is involved in order tQ create life- like mannequins. For more inf<~rmation call 474-5842. Winter Improv- isation Series Concludes! Music . .. Dance The final installment in the . Union College Winter Improvisation Series will be held on Friday, February 27 at 7:30 p.m. in tlle Performing Ad;s Studio. Perf()rming will be · Union College DancE Professor · Vera Orlock and musician, Matthiew Keisjer'. Lucinda Childs Dance CQmpany On Thursday,March 5, the. Lucinda Childs Dance Company will be conducting a com• bination Dance Lecture- Demonstration. It will be held in the Nott Memorial Theater and will begin at 7:30. Admission is free. Seven Bright Walkers B.L.A.S is proud to present Seven Bright Walkers on Friday, February 27. This performance will take place in the Memorial Chapel and will begin at 8 p.m. Admission is . free~ Rescue at Entebbe The Jewish Student Union Will continue their fihn festival with a showing of \R~scue at Entebee\. This film will be shown on Monday, March 2 at both 7:30and 9:00p.m. in SS016 .. Admission is free. Berkshire Ballet The Berkshire Ballet presents New Dimensions in Dance on Saturday, March 7 at 8 p.m. in Proctor's Theater. Tickets can be purchased at Proctor's Theater and all Community Box Offices. For more information, call 382-3884. Portrait of An Artist As An OldMan ByPAUI..SCH'OP Last November rnar'ked the publication of The Passion of Jngmar Bergman, by Professor Frank Gado. In the last four . months, thin Do()k ilas received nearly universal praise from both book reviewers and movie critics. Gado, in this W()rlt,h.as chosen a lmique way to atlalyze the range of Bergmar, 's creative endEavors, which include everything from sb()rt stories to his films, such as Fanny and Alexander. His approach involves analyzing Bergman's work as one would analyze literature, whicll enabled Gado to produce a psychological portrait of a mall whom he feels has had a greater influence on filin than anyone Else, to date. Bergman has also had a great deal of influence ()D Gado's personal life. He begatl writing this book over 17 y~ars ago, when he was a Fulbright schDlar teaching in Sweden. It was through his wor-k (In this book that he met his wife · . Gunilla. It was shE who helped him to understanll the nuances of Swedish ()Ulture that Bergman incorpvrates into his films. These are subtleties that those unfamiliar with Swedish culture would miss. To date, The Passion of Ingman Bergman llas received favDrable reviews from many prestigious newspapers, both in North America and Europe. Acc()rding to Gado, only one small Swedish newspaper has given his book a· negative review. Gado said that this review was untitled ant that, \it claimed that I Ju:d wrcngly analyzed Betglnall.'' Gado added, \The reviewer claimed that film is not literature and that I should have dealt With Bergman's work as a series of photographic images.'' Gado feels that the favorable responses to his book are justified, and that he has not been , surprised by the magnitude of the praise Said Gado, \I know that it .:;ounds funny, and that it makes me look awful, but I'm not sur- prised. I know tl\.at 1 :lid a good piece of work, and that it is the most definitive work on .Bergman. I am not surprised, but I am grateful.\ The · book paints an un- flattering portrait of Bergman's psyche. Gado has never met Bergman, and he feels that he would either ignore his book, because of the way it portrays him, or respond to it in some negative manner. Gado feels that the most important differences between Bergman and almost every other direetor is that Bergman can write, direct, and call his OWl} shots, which allows him to produce films shaped ex· elusively by his own mind, on very low budgets. For instance, Fanny and Alexander, Bergman's most recent film, cost only $12 million to make, in spite of its 4¥.! hours running time. Among American directors, only Woody Allen, says Gado, is capable of producing films in a simlar fashion. The Passion of lngmar Bergman is being published by DUke University Press. It is available in paperback for $16.95. A cloth covered edition is also available for $45. J ,

Q_ ::l 0 I.. 0 ... c <II E <II ij) 10 c 10 ~ 10 c 0 :;: ro c I.. Q) +- !: 0 >- \' Q) ... I.. :::l 0 u CONCORDJENSIS, February 26, 1987 Page 13 At Proctor's ... Festival On, Ice By LIZA LEIDNER Last Saturday night I took a detour from the normal Union College fraternity .party social route and headed to Proctor's for an evening to relive my childhood. To my surprise, the small theatre stage was con- verted into an ice skating ring, only 52 feet by 32 feet in dimension. Festival on Ice began. The performance was headlined by the world famous pair skating partners, Tai Babi[onia and Randy Gardner, with a special guest appearance by Scott Hamilton. The audience was in awe from the very moment the lights dimmed and the skaters took the ice. Festival on Ice began a few years back in Lake Tahoe with Dorothy Hamill, Tai and Randy. The idea of skating on a theatre stage was new and seemed to dazzle the audience so the three decided to take the show on the road. The show is presently on its third National Production on the road, selling out to audiences in cities throughout the United States. The duo of Tai and Randy amazed the crowd with their skating ability and various ballet moves on the ice, in- cluding inverted positions one could not even imagine being performed over cushioned mats, let alone oh the ice. The highlight of their performance were in the numbers 'On Broadway' and 'Harlem Shuffle' as the audience ap- plauded with unending en- thusiasm. Tai and Randy have been working together since the early 1970's, astounding audiences throughout the world. In 1979, they were crowned the World Figure Skating Chamipons in Vienna, Austria. After injuries led to an un- fortunate disappt)intment in the Olympics, Tai and Randy went professional in their first performance with the Ice Capades. The duo has been seen · in various performances since, including ''Festival on Ice\ and \Mr. T. Christmas Special'' to name but a few. On a personal level, Tai and Randy deny that their relationship is anything more than platonic, although the two admit that their one try at a romantic relationship was interesting, but not for them. They see themselves more like best friends wllo are able to read the other's thoughts Scott Hamilton without much diffcculty. Their extraordinary performance attested to this. The special guest per- formance by Scott Hamilton was the high point of the evening. Througll the numbers \42nd Street\ and \Kyrie\, Scott charmed the audience, young and old alike. He dazzled the crowd in llis Broadway routine, sending ice mist flying into the crowd. Who could believe that it was possible to tap dance on ice\? Scott made it look easy. His backflips sent the audience clappin.g in an uproar. Scott, who has been the world's most celebrated male figure skater since 1981, has eight national and world titles to his credit, including an Olympic Gold Medal from the 1984 Winter Games in Sarajevo. In 1987, Scott will oontinue to be a com..'\Tlentator for CBS at the amateur competitions in ad- dition to lleing key spokesperson for local Denver corporations and national foundations. He has been often referred to as a ''pint-sized powerhouse\ whose skating ability wiU continue to delight audiences ~or years to come. A strar1ge but amusing in- terlude in the evening was a performance by Philip Wellford, a comic juggler who was the only individual not to put on skates that evening. Wellford kept the audie:nce laughing for 20 minutes. He juggled everything from bananas to balls, broccoli to unicycles. In one part of his number, he asked for audience participation. Richard, a gentleman from the front row, came on stage to help Wellford juggle fire torches from the unicycle. No, the ice did not melt, but Richard ahnost did. Wellford's multifarious talents provided an extra delight to the evening. Not to be overlooked are the members of the skating en- semble without whom the performance would have been incomplete. They added an additional dimension to Festival om Ice. Their nu.'llbers included \Tomorrow\ and \Moodido\ as well as helping Tai, Randy and Scott in other numbers. They should be ap- plauded. When the show was over approximately two hours after it began, the audience gave all the performers a standing ovation. Proceeding home with glittering eyes and a warm smile on their faces, the audience l'emarked that this was a performance that they'd never forget. As \Richard\ put it: ''It was quite a show. I really enjoyed it! \ Union College Choir Performs ByJOYCYBUL On Sunday, February 22, the Union College Choir performed at 3: 00 in the Memorial Chapel. Professor Hugh Allen Wilson conducted the singers, and Ms. Elinor Farnum accompanied the- choir on the organ. The repertoire consisted of pieces from different centW'ies. However, the limit of time required that not everything on the repertoire be performed. Professor Wilson said, \Today we can only perform about two- thirds of our selections. Hopefully, we can sing the rest at a later date.'' Several pieces which were performed were \Alleluia\, written by T. L. Victoria, \Blessed are the Faithful\ by Heinrich Schuetz, and \Ave Verum Corpus\ by William Byrd. Trisha Feeney, '88, is the president of the chorus. \I enjoy being president because I enjoy working with people my own age. In the sprillg, we hope to arrange a joint concert with W.P.I. and Middlebury. Next fall, hopefully, we will be able to travelto England to sing.\ Jean Beaty also '88, claims, \I really enjoy singing--especially at other colleges because we get to meet many new people. During spring break we will be going down to Florida to perform. We'll be singing mainly in Miami and Ft. .Lauderdale in churches, colleges and synagogues. It should be lots of fW1.\ Candy Butts, '90, says of ProfessarWilson, ''He's a great choir director-he's very en· thusiastic and puts in a lot of time to the choir.\ Their singing was ooautiful and the acoustics of Memorial Chapel magnified their talent many times over. Professor Wilson did a superb job of both conducting the singers and also of temporarily accompanying them on the piano. During a brief break in the program, the drawing for the Florida-plane- ticket raffle was held. Ironically, the winner of the raffle was the vice-president of the choir, Diana Prauss, '88. THE ARTS Arts Briefs Dutch Pipers The Union College Dutch Pipers will be perferming \A Performance of Preposterous Pr@portions\ on Saturday, February 28. This event will take place at 6:30 in the Old Chapel Dining Hall. Special guests will be The Williams College Ephoria as well as Union's own Garnet Min- strelles. '~/most Real People'' at The Museum The New York State Musewn's lecture for Sunday, March 1 will be entitled \Almost Real People\. Tom Culnan, exhibit specialist will give an inside view of the craftwork and talent that is involved in order to create life- like mannequins. For more information call 474-5842. Winter Improv- isation Series Concludes! Music .. Dance The frnal instalhnent in the Union College Winter Improvisation Series will be held on Friday, February 27 at 7:30 p.m. in the Performing Arts Studio. Perfarming will be Union College Dance Professor Vera Orlock and musician, Matthiew Keisjer. - Lucinda Childs Dance Company On Thursday,March 5, the Lucinda Childs Dance Company will be conducting a com- bination Dance Lecture- Demonstration. It will be held in the Nott Memorial Theater and will begin at 7:30. Admission is free. Seven Bright Walkers B.L.A.S is proud to present Seven Bright Walkers on Friday, February 27. This performance will take place in the Memorial Chapel and will begin at 8 p.m. Admission is free. Rescue at Entebbe The Jewish Student Union will continue their film festival with a showing of \Rescue at Entebee\. This film will be shown on Monday, March 2 at both 7:30 and 9:00p.m. in SS016. Admission is free. Berkshire Ballet The Berkshire Ballet presents New Dimensions in Dance on Saturday, March 7 at 8 p.m. in Proctor's Theater. Tickets can be purchased at Proctor's Theater and all Community Box Offices. For more information, call 382-3884. Portrait of An Artist As An OldMan ByPAULSCHOP Last November marked the publication of The Passion of Ingmar Bergman, by Professor Frank Gado. In the last four months, thin book has received nearly universal praise from both book reviewers and movie critics. Gado, in this work, has chosen a unique way to analyze the range of Bergmar.'s creative endeavors, which include everything from short stories to his films, such as Fanny and Alexander. His approach involves analyzing Bergman's work as one would analyze literature, which enabled Gado to produce a psychological portrait of a man whom he feels has had a greater influence on film than anyone else, to date. Bergman has also had a great deal of influence on Gada's personal life. He began writing this book over 17 years ago, when he was a Fulbright scholar teaching in Sweden. It was through his work on this book that he met his wife Gunilla. It was she who helped him to understand the nuances of Swedish culture that Bergman incorporates into his films. These are subtleties that those unfamiliar with Swedish culture would miss. To date, The Passion of Ingman Bergman has received favorable reviews from many prestigious newspapers, both in North America and Europe. According to Gado, only one small Swedish newspaper has given his book a negative review. Gado said that this review was untitled ant that, \it claimed that I had wrongly analyzed Bergman.\ Gado added, \The reviewer claimed that film is not literature and that I should have dealt with Bergman's work as a series of photographic images.\ Gado feels that the favorable responses to his book are justified, and that he has not been surprised by the magnitude of the praise Said Gado, \I know that it .. mWlds funny, and that it makes me look awful, but I'm not sur- prised. I know trat I iid a good piece of work, and e1at it is the most definitive work on Bergman. I am not surprised, but l am grateful.\ The book paints an un· flattering portrait of Bergman's psyche. Gado has never met Bergman, and he feels that he would either ignore his book, because of the way it portrays him, or respond to it in some negative manner. Gado feels that the most important differences between Bergman and ahnost every other director is that Bergman can write, direct, and call his own shots, which allows him to produce films shaped ex- clusively by his own mind, on very low budgets. For instance, Fanny and Alexander, Bergman's most recent film, cost only $12 million to make, in spite of its 4lh hours running time. Among American directors, only Woody Allen, says Gado, is capable of producing films in a simlar fashion. The Passion of Ingmar Bergman is being published by Duke University Press. It is available in paperback for $16.95. A cloth covered edition is also available for $45.

. . Page 14 CONCOR,lJlENS!S, February 26, 1987 THE ARTS \Some People\ Can Really Rock! Paul Young In Concert By MARY JO CONLEY Saturday, February 21, Paul Yotmg kicked off his 1987 world tour with a show at Albany's Palace Theater. The \Nine Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\ tour will showcase a different Paul YoWlg from his last'tour; he will be trying to move away from the '~teen-idol\ image that has been plaguing him. Opening the evening with a thirty-minute set was Ten Ten, a four-member band from Rich- mond, Virginia. Their songs, expecially \When It Rains\ were very lively. Touring with Paul Young will bring them to national attention arid most likely earn them a following. Given proper eXposure their son \A Million Miles Away\ is sure to become a hot single. Most likely, Ten Ten . will be headlining their own tour in the near future, something they truly deserve. Paul opened his set with the song, \Behind Your Smile\ an up-beat number. During his ninety-minute show he drew his material from the albwns No Parlez, Secret of Association and the recently released Between Two Fires. The second song was \Love of the com- mon People,\ one of Paul's f·irst hits. The highlights of the evening, however, were songs from the current album-· \Wonderland\, \In the Long Run\ \Prisoner of Con- science\ and the first single, \Some People\. Young appeared at the Palace on Halloween in 1935, a fact he kept referring to throughout llis set. Judging from the cheers when he mentioned it, a large portion of the audience was apparently at that show. This made it quite hard to enjoy Saturday's show on its own. A num6er of songs including \Wherever I Lay My Hat\ seemed lackluster .in com- parison to his acapella rendition performed two years ago. ThiB could be 1 the result of Paul's desire to be seen as a serious musician. The biggest disap- pointment of the evening was \I'm Gonna Tear Yout· Playhouse Down\. It lacked the spirit and even the catchy arrangement that make it such a hit on vinyL After performing \Everything Must Change\ and \Come Back and Stay\ Paul told the audience that \thillgs have changed since I was last here-wars, poverty.... social diseases\ then he broke into \'Kings are white, Queens are re4, when the Queen sees you, \Off with your Head!\ Go See ALICEI ~ One Week Onlyl February 24-28, 1987 at 8 p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre 3.00 Students $4.00 Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission Whether you order piua, subs, soda, snacks, popcorn, or anything else from the Rock 'n Roll Pizza Pub, you're not only getting better prices than off-campus Pizzarias, you're supporting student workers as well. Delivery is free, on or off-campus, during all business hours. We're open7 days a week from 1:30 p.m. until 12:00 a.m., 1:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m. on friday and Saturday, throughout the school year. Keep in mind that the money generated by the Pina Pub returns bock and is forwarded towards student interests and Union College. And besides, it's good pina! Honest! So please visit us at 1st floor West College or call for delivery. Our menu is as follows ••• 8-c:ut Pina $5.00 toppings include: 6·cut Pi:ua $4.00 slices-still only • 80 Ill full sub half sub '$1.75 ·, $1.7S popcorn .50 soda .50 cookie .50 Drakes'scakes .50 juice .60 (ham, turkey, or roast beef) freihoffer's and more coming soon •••••• pepperoni. m11shr~oms peppers onions olives extra cheese sausage (minimum $5.00 order (or 6-cut pizm) for delivery, toppings subiect to availability.} Pizza ... The Way You Like 111· Call Us At 370-6060 \Sex.\. 'This nwnber, the best one of the evening, was an excellent closing song. If the lyrics ()f the song- \you better gimme what I want, cause that's what I've been waiting for\- Vteren't enough to get the predoooinantly female audience on its feet (if not on the way to his h()tel room), Paul's actions were. lleavy breathing into the microJJhone and erotic gyration.s might not be the way to outgl'ow a teeny-bopper audienCJe, but it does draw at- tention.. Retmrning for the much deman~ed encore, Paul Young sang his number one hit, \~very Time You Go Away\. _ Ever:Yone had their chance ,.on this oiJe·Mthe three back-up singers each sang a solo on the chortls. Turning the lights on the auclience, Paul and his band encour:aged them to sing their part. Overcd.l the concert was very good !llld its doubtful anyone left thee Palace disappointed. When Paul Young left the stage, his aucU.ence could honestly tell him, \:yo11 took a piece of me with :Y()ll,\ and vice versa. 'ill>$1~1!iMI8·o@-@o!SS'-@-@@o0~ Any lde11s F•r Articles Please C1111 Nllllly or Julie 11t JBJ-1007 . PARENT WEEKEND Is Coming! T·Shirt Design Contest ti'7,.._,,_,.,,,....,,,.,,...,..,,,,,_,unnu,.r.r....-....-.....- ........ ,,...,...,...., .... .r....-....-.....-....-....-....-....-,.....-....-....-.r.r/'.r'.;: 1or the weekend will run until March 12 All Design-s should be submitted , to student activities. For more information call Mrs. Marra or Miss Clark at sta<fent activities.

Page 14 CONCORDJ,ENSJS, February 26, 1987 ¥4 THE ARTS \Some People\ Can Really Rock! Paul Young In Concert mon People,'' one of Paul's first By MARY JO CONLEY hits. The highlights of the evening, however, were songs Saturday, February 21, Paul from the current alb'um.-- Yotmg kicked off his 1987 world \Wonderland\, \In the Long tour with a show at Albany's Run\ ''Prisoner of Con- Palace Theater. The \Nine science\ and the first single, Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\ \Some People\. tour will showcase a different YoWlg appeared at the Palace Paul Young from his last tour; on Halloween in 1985, a fact he he will be trying to move away kept referring ta throughout his from the \teen-idal\ image that set. Judging from the cheers has been plaguing him. when he mentioned it, a large Opening the evening with a portion of the audience was thirty-minute set was Ten Ten, apparently at that show. This a four-member band from Rich· made it quite hard to enjoy mond, Virginia. Their songs, Saturday's show on its own. A expecially \When It Rains\ numi:Ser of songs including were very lively. Touring with \Wherever I Lay My Hat\ Paul Young will bring the:m to seemed lackluster in cOin· national attention and most parison to his acapella rendition likely earn them a following. performed two years ago. This Given proper exposure their son could be the result of Paul's \A Million Miles Away\ is sure desire to be seen as a serious to become a hot single. Most musician. The biggest disap- likel:y, Ten Ten · will be pointment of the evening was headlining their own tour ill the \I'm Gonna Tear Your near future, something they Playhouse Down\. It lacked the truly deserve. spirit and even the catchy Paul opened his set with the arrangement that make it such song, \Behind Your Smile\ an a hit on vinyl. up-beat number. During his A f t e r p e r f o r m in g ninety-minute show he drew his \Everything Must Change\ and material from the albums No \Come Back and Stay\ Paul Parlez, Secret of Association told the audience that \things and the rece!ltly released have changed since I was last Between Two Fires. The second here-wars, poverty.... social song was \Love of the com· diseases\ then he broke into \'Kings are white, Queens are red, when th~ Queen sees you, \'Off with your Head!\ Go See ALICEI ~ One Week Only! February 24-28, 1987 at 8 p.m. Nott Memorial Theatre ~ 1$3.00 Students $4.00 Faculty & Staff§ $5.00 General Admission ~ ; ~~\\\'\~\\\\'~-.,: Whether you order piua, subs, soda, snacks, popcorn, or anything else from the Rock 'n Roll Pina Pub, you're not only getting beHer prices than oft-campus Pinarias, you're supporting student workers as well. Delivery is free, on or off-campus, during all business hours. We're open 7 days a week from 1:30 p.m. until 12:00 a.m., 1:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, throughout the school year. Keep in mind that the money generated by the Piua Pub returns buck and is forwarded towards student interests and Union College. And besides, it's good pizza! Honest! So please visit us at 1st floor West College or call for delivery. Our menu is as follows ... 8-cut Pizza $5.00 1oppings include: 6-cut Pina $4.00 slices-still only .80 Ill full sub half sub $2.75 $1.75 popcorn ,SO soda .SO cookie .50 Drakes's cakes .50 juice .60 (flam, turkey, ar roast beef) Freihoffer's and more coming soon ••..•• pepperoni mushrooms peppers onions olives extra cheese sausage (minimum $5.00 order (or 6-cut pizza) for delivery, toppings subiect to availability.) Pizza ... The Way You Like IT! Call Us At 370-6060 ··sex\. This nllHlber, the best one of the evening, was an excellent closing song. lf the lyrics of the song- \you better gimrne what I want, cause that's wllat I've been waiting fer\- weren't enough to get tlle predeminantly female audience on its feet (if not on the way to his hate I room), Paul's actions were. Heavy breathing into the microphone and erotic gyrations might not be the way to outgrow a teeny~bopper audience, but it does draw at· tention. Returning f<Jr the much demanded .encore, Paul Young sang his n11mher one hit, \Every 'rime You Go Away\. _ Everyone had their chance on this one--the three back-up singers each sang a solo on the chorus. Turning the lights on the audiet1ce, Paul and his band encouraged them to sing their part. Overall the concert was very good and its doubtful anyone left the Palace disappointed. When Paul Young left the stage, his audience could honestly tell him, \you took a piece of me with you,\ and vice versa. ~~®0-'*~~'*'-''***~ Any Ideas For Articles PleDse Call Nancy Dr Julie 111 382-IOOT PARENTS WEEKEND Is Coming! T-Shirt Design Contest '////.F/.r//.r/.r//F//.r.r/?///.tl'/r./,F//'/F/.r//'//'.ti'/.F////.r/.r//..l'..l'.r////..1\//. for the weekend will run until March 12 All Designs should be submitted to student activities. For more information call Mrs. Marra or Miss Clark at student activities. 'l I

1 J -· - CON()ORBlENSIS, Febru«ry 26; 1'987 . 15 SCIENCE, HEALTH, ;\ND TECHNOLOGY ' .. ~~~=~~-----~~--------------------------------------~------~--------------~~--~----~----------~~ ....... _. A Wei. Spent WinterVacation You Be The Judge ByWTIIBRACY At the beginning of every · wint~r. term people always ask each otber about their winter brea,ks. I n.ever had mqchto say in the ~st, buHhis years winter break w~s. so interesting that I wasn't satisfied with telling only my friends, so I wrute this article. puter operation to working with electronic data acquisition and computer interface devices, to mundane and complex h~Ud~ ware problem.s; By the end .of the three weeks we had a good working .knowledge of the system, as well as some of tile theory behind it. · Life at a particle acceler.atDr is a unique e:Jq>erience, and is something that one must live through to understand. My lei$1,U'etime was spent watching TV, reading, and exploring, or trespassing,. into nume-rous other laboratorieS; The main social event in the dorms among the visiting profe$sors and graduate students was to de~te over the plausibility of Star Ttek oY:er a couple of beets. As a matter of fact, Tom and I bad ·quite a collection of empties ·by the time we left. Of course for the more motivated people there was. ~;~ gymnasium and swimming pool on the site. And for those who had cars there were interestil\gtowns close by. BY DON LAF.A.YET · One of the most important determinants of how your day or a big weekend will turnout, is · the weather. Along with \Do · you know whattime it is?\ \Do you ]mow what the weather is going to be like tomorrow?\ bas to be among· the most. often asked questions every . day. Millions of people ;tround the country stay awake that extra half hour at night just to \get a feel for the next day;'! I would . • · go so far as to say that watching the weather report every night is almost ritualistic in fashion. People place a great amount of . · faith in the wise words of their most revered meteorologist. I . am slll,\e all of you have · noticed that even the most simplistic of weather reports now demonstrates a most impressive array of high technology equipment. Today'S weather reports are very graphic and detailed, with extensive 5-day forecasts as well as \action\ shots of cloud and wind movement. However, with all of their \revolutionary\ equipment,. .meteorologists today, in my opinion, have riot significantly improved .their weather forecasts as compared to, say, a decade ago. I must admit though, that they dress better, tell a good joke every once in a while, and can talk a good game with their high pressure, low pressure, barometric pressure routine. My trust in weathermen has been put to the test one time too many. For example,. this past· weekend, with highs in the low 30's and fiU11'ies (according to the weather report), seemed to be about 50 degrees without a cloud in the sky. I don't know, maybe I am just a peSsimist. Why don't llet you be the judge. Following is a brief description of the basics of weather: Warming of the Earth is performed by the sun's short- wave radiation and cooling is by long-wave radiation going back into space. The sun heats the Earth's atmosphere on dif- ferent parts of the globe to different temperatures, setting up variable Winds, pressures~ and rates of evaporation. Since the air is nol'Illally hotter near the eq~tor and cooler at the poles, the warm and cold masses would move toward each other except for the Earth's rotation which tendsto make them move ·in circles. Weather patter:ns, thus, are influenced by certain physical laws. It is the job of the· weather· man 'to anal~e these patterns into an ac~:urate weather report. In 197Cl, I would have agreed that this would be a most diff.icult path because of limitations ~ lmowledge placed on the avera.ge broadcaster. However, in the 1980's, weathermen f()rmulate their reports With access to satellite photos of the Earth, input via computer from weather movements around the world, and a number of other handy devices. To reiterate, perhaps I am a bit biased, too many weekends S))()il~d by inaccurate weather repo:rts; therefore, \You be ·the jlldge!\ I started planning. my vacation back in October. You're probably tb.inking that I called my travel agent.. Not quite. 1,\fy planning started with writing· and sU:bmitting a proposal to the Union 0)]lege Internal Education Fund. What I was planning wasn't a trip to the beaches of Hawaii, but to the partiel~ accelerator .at the Brookhaven National LabOratory .. Being a studious Physics major, I couldn'tthink Of a: better, and more economical way of spending v~cation than doing research with two of my profes$>rs into the detection of sub-atomic partit:les,. courtesy of. Union College. ()f course I wasn't the oply Union ,eonege stud~nt who knew how to spend a vacation properly. 'Tom Walsh also had . A CQUple of other odd things one must get used to; setting your schedule by when the particle · beam is working rather than by the more ancient means of the clock and the sun,. and tbe paranoia which one develops Radon Hazards Not Predidable the same idea. · Fot three· weeks, we spent an· average of ten hour$ a day at the Alternating Gradient Synchr{)tron {AGS), which is a fancy name for a proton ac- celerator, 0Qt experiment was a collaborationwith,,N.Y.U .. on the Tracking and Ring Imaging Cherenkov Counter, or TRICC for short. Basically, it is a prototype particle detector consisting cf a time projection eham.~t- .. (:tpc.). to record the particles three dimensional position as a function of time, and a Cb.erenkov coimter to measure the . velocity · of the particle. I will spare ··you · the technical details of the process. However, I will tell you that the goal of this project is to measure the mass of the muon neutrino: This :is currently the premier research topic in High Energy Physics. · You may wonder what kind of work two undergraduate students would do on a state of the art particle det¢ptor. Being the only two undergraduates on the project, and propably at the whole research facility, Tom and I wondered the ~e thing. We paid. close att~ntion and asked many questiops and. soon found ourselves capable of rurmifig the experiment alone. Our work r-anged from com- .. in which you constantly look behind you at the radiati()n detector to make· sure that nobody messed up and is bombarding . y.og with radioactive particles. I could go on and on, but the main point that I want to get across is that although it may not fall in tbe normal category of a vacation, my research experience was a lot of · fun, n,ot t() mention .. educational, and is .a rare op- · portunity for undergraduates. This is something that I wol,l].d recommend to anyone who gets the chance. Tom and I owe this op- portunity to Profs. Laszlo Baksay and Rich Magahiz of the Physics department, who alsD went to Brookhaven to work 011 the same project. They helped us in every phase of our research, and allowed us quite extensive use of their cars. We would like to thank them for everything. For anyone interested irt .doing research in their majors my advice is simple. Get in: touch with your favorite professor, and look into the Internal Education Fund. The education you get could be invaluable. Geologic maps, including the New York State bedrock geology map, cannot be used to positively identify possible -radon hazard zones in New York, according to Dr. RObert H. Fakundiny, State Geologist ·and Chief of the New York State Geological Survey. Dr. Fakundiny pointed out that testing of individual homes is the only accurate way to determine indoor 'radon levels in'New York State residences. Radon is a colorless, odvrless, radioactive gas, a decay product of natural radium wiUiin the earth. Radon exists , in varying amounts in all soils throughout the earth. Depen· . ding on location and house construction, radon can build up inside homes to levels much higher than those outdoors. Studies of miners exposed to · atmospheres with high con· · centrations of radon and other . carcinogens over long periods . have linked the exposl.ll'e to higher than rionnal rates of lung cancer. Extrapolation from these data has. led to the judgment that radon gas in the home poses an increased risk for lung cancer. Some reports have implied that c-ertain bedrock formations and geologic units are more RED CROSS PHONE-A-THON VOLUNTEER 462-7461 X250 ALU I GY WILL BE ,'OPEN .SUNDAYS fi,OM 12- 7 p.m. BEG,INNING MARCH 1st likely than others to produce radon in hOmes. Fakundiny states, \No reported geologic studies in New York sub- stantiate this notion, and until further research is brought to bear on the problem, no relationship can be demon- strated between geologic for- mations as depicted on the New York State bedrock geology . map and the occurrence of eleva:ted., radon levels in homes.''· · · - According to Fakundiny, geologic · units such as tlle \Reading Prong\ and the \Marcellus Shale\ in New York State that are often identified as sources of radon have been delineated on the state maps only on the basis of rock tYPe, geologic history and ancie11t depositional environments and cannot be used as the sole basis for radon hazard identification. Fakundiny indicated that uranium and its decay products are unevenly distributed within rocks and soils. \Further THINK studies may find high radon levels associated with several bedrock and surficial for- mations,\ he ,~aid, \but even these occurrellces will probably have nwnerOIJS irregularities and variation.\ According to Fakundiny, the degree of radon leaking int() basements is likely to depend on several factors, including thidmess of glacial sediment cover, groundwater conditions, soil permeability, presence of 16ce~I crushed zones within rock, atmospheric pressure and degree ·Of soil saturation, radon content of water supplies, and the nature of the constr-u.ction of the basement . Further i.nf()rmation on radon, includillg a listing of companies that provide radon monitoring services, may be ()btained by calling the toll-free State Energy Hotline at 1-60().. 342-3722, or the New York State Health Department at 518-47 4- 7354. SPRING THINK PARENTS' WEEKEND MAY 8, 9 & 10 I VJ

'l . , CON()ORDIENSJS~ FebrutJry 26, 1987 Page ~5 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY A WeD. Spent Winter Vacation You Be The Judge By BARTH BR.ACY At the beginning of every winter term. people always ask each other about their winter breaks. f never had much to say in the past, but this years winter break was so interesting that I wasn't satisfied with telling only my friends, so I wrote this article. I started planning my vacation back in October. You're probably thinking that I called my travel agent. Not quite. My planning started with writing and submitting a proposal to the Union College Internal Education Fund'. What I was planning wasn't a trip to the beaches of Hawaii, but to the particle accelerator at the Brookhaven National Laboratory. Being a studious Physics major, I couldn't think of a better, and more economical way of spending vacation than doing research with two of my professors into the detection of sub-atomic particles, courtesy of Union College. Of course I wasn't the only Union College student who knew how to spend a vacation properly. Tom Walsh also had the same idea. For three weeks, we spent an average of ten hours a day at the Alternating Gradient Synchrotron (AGS), which is a fancy name for a proton ac- celerator. Our experiment was a collaboration with N.Y.U. on the Tracking and Ring Imaging Cherenkov Counter, or TRICC for short. Basically, it is a prototype particle detector consisting of a time projection chamber (tpc) to record the particles three dimensional position as a function of time, and a Cherenkov counter to measure the velocity of the particle. I will spare you the teclmical details of the process . However, I will tell you that the goal of this project is to measure the mass of the muon neutrino. This 'is cw-rently the premier research topic in High Energy Physics. You may wonder what kind of work two undergraduate students would do on a state of the art particle detector. Being the only two undergraduates on the project, and probably at the whole research facility, Tom and I wondered the same thing. We paid close attention and asked many questions and soon found ourselves capable of rwming the experiment alone. Our work ranged from com- .puter operation to working with electronic data acquisition and computer interface devices, to mundane and complex hard- ware problems. By the end of the three weeks we had a good working knowledge of the system, as well as some of the theory behind it. Ufe at a particle accelerator is a unique experience, and is something that one must live through to understand. My leisure time was spent watching TV, reading, and exploring, or trespassing, into numerous other laboratories. The main social event in the dorms among the visiting professors and graduate students was to debate over the plausibility of Star Trek over a couple of beers. As a matter of fact, Tom and I had quite a collection of empties by the time we left. Of course for the more motivated people there was a gymnasiwn and swimming pool on the site. And for those who had cars there were interesting towns close by. A couple of other odd things one must get used to; setting your schedule by when the particle · beam is working rather than by the more ancient means of the clock and the sun, and the paranoia which one develops in which you constantly look behind you at the radiation detector to make sure that nobody messed up and is bombarding you with radioactive particles. I could go on and on, but the main point that I want to get across is that although it may not fall in the normal category of a vacation, my research experience was a lot of fun, not to mention educational, and is a rare op- portunity for undergraduates. This is something that I would recommend to anyone who gets the chance. Tom and I owe this op- portunity to Profs. Laszlo Baksay and Rich Magahiz of the Physics department, who also went to Brookhaven to work on the same project. They helped us in every phase of our research, and allowed us quite eldensive use of their cars. We would like to thank them for everything. For anyone interested in doing research in their majors my advice is simple. Get in touch with your favorite professor, and look into the Internal Education Fund. The education you get could be invaluable. ' . By DON LAFA YET One of the most important determinants of how your day or a big weekend will turn o11t, is the weather. Along with ''Do you knew what time it is? \ \Do you know what the weather is going to be like tomorrow1'' has to be among the most cften . asked questions every day. Millions of people around the country stay awake that ex:tra half hour at night just to \get a feel for the next day.' 1 I would go so far as to say that watclling the weather report every 11ight is almost ritualistic in .fasllion. People place a great amoiiJit of faith in the wise words of 1:1leir most revered meteorologist. I am sure all of you llave noticed that even the most simplistic of weather reports now demonstrates a rnest impressive array of :high technology equipment. f()day's weather reports are very graphic and detailed, with extensive 5-day forecasts as well as \action\ shots of cloud and wind movement. Howev-er, Geologic maps, including the New York State bedrock geology map, cannot be used to positively identify possible radon hazard zones in New York, according to Dr. Robert H. Fakundiny, State Geobgist and Chief of the New York State Geological Survey. Dr. Fakundiny pointed out that testing of individual homes is the only accurate way to determine indoor radon levels in New York State residences. Radon is a colorless, odorless, radioactive gas, a decay product of natural radium within the earth. Radon eldsts in varying amounts in all soils throughout the earth. Depen- ding on location and h()use construction, radon can build up inside homes to levels m.uch higher than those outdoors. Studies of miners exposed to atmospheres with higl1 con- centrations of radon and other carcinogens over long periods have linked the exposure to higher than normal rates of lung cancer. Extrapolation from these data has led to the judgment that radon gas in the home poses an increased risk for lung cancer. Some reports have implied that certain bedrock formati()rtS and geologic units are more RED CROSS PHONE-A-THON VOLUNTEER 462-7461 X250 ALU NIGY • WEIGHT ROOMS WILL BE OPEN SUNDAYS FROM 12 - 7 p.m. BEGINNING MARCH 1st with all of their \revolutionary\ equipment, meteorologists today, in my opinion, have not significantly Improved their weather forecasts as compared to, say, a decade ago. I must admit though, that they dress better, tell a good joke every once in a while, and can talk a good game with their high pressure, low pressure, barometric pressure routine. My trust in weathermen has been put to the test one time too many. For example, this past· weekend, with highs in the low 30's and flurries (according to the weather report), seemed to be about 50 degrees without a cloud in the sky. I don't know, maybe I am just a pessimist. Why don't I let you be the judge. Following is a brief description of the basics of weather: Warming of the Earth is performed by the sun's short- wave radiation and cooling is by long-wave radiation going back into space. The sun heats the Earth's atmosphere on dif- ferent parts of the globe to different temperatures, setting likely than others to produce radon in homes. Fakundiny states, \No reported geologic studies in New York sub- stantiate this notion, and until further research is brought to bear on the problem, no relationship can be demon- strated between geologic for- mations as depicted on the New York State bedrock geology map and the occurrence of elevated radon levels in homes.'' According to Fakundiny, geologic units such as the \Reading Prong\ and the \Marcellus Shale\ in New York State that are often identified as sources of radon have been delineated on the state maps only on the basis of rock type, geologic history and ancient depositional environments and cannot be used as the sole basis for radon hazard identification. Fakundiny indicated that uranium and its decay products are unevenly distributed within rocks and soils. \Further THINK up variable winds, pressures-, and rates of evaporation. Since the air is normally hotter near the equator and cooler at the pales, the warm and cold masses would move toward each ether except for the Earth's rotation which tends to make them move in circles. Weather .patterns, thWl, are influenced by certain physical laws. It is the job of the weather- man to analyze these patterns into an accurate weather report. In 1970, I would have agreed that this would be a l'llOst difficult path because of limitations in knowledge placed on the average broadcaster. However, in the 1980's, weathermen formulate thei·r reports with access to satellite photos of the Earth, input via computer from weather movements around the world, and a number of other hartdy devices. To reiterate, perhaps I am a bit biased, too many weekends spoiled by inacc11rate weather reports; therefDre, \You be the judge!\ studies may find high radon levels associated with several bedrock and surficial for- mations,\ he said, \but even these occurrences will probably have numerous irregularities and variation.\ According to Fakundiny, the degree of radon leaking into basements is li~ely to depend on several factors, including thickness of glacial sediment cover, groundwater conditions, soil permeability, presence of local crushed zones within rock, atmospheric pressure and degree of soil saturation, radon content of water supplies, and the nature of the construction of the basement. Further information on radon, including a listing of companies that provide radon monitoring services, may be obtained by calling the toll-free State Energy Hotline at 1-800- 342-3722, or the New York State Health Department at 518-47 4- 7354. SPRING THIN·K PARENTS' WEEKEND MAY 8, 9 & 10 I

Page 16 SCHOLARSHIPS . The Business and Professional Women's Foun- dation· offers loan and .scholarship assistance to women in their final two years of any engineering program accredited by the Accreditation Board for· Engineering and Technology. Loans range from $500 to $5,000 per year and applicants may r&apply for a total maximum of $10,000. Scholarships range frQm $500 to $1,000 atld are for women 25 years <•f age and older. Application deadline is May 1, 1987 for th:.! 1987-88 school year. Applications are available in the Fb1ancial Aid Office. Announcing - The Thomas F. Puroer, Jr. Scholarship. Jun .. ors who are planning to pm sue the five-year combined d<:gree program with the Institute· of Administration and Management (lAM) are eligible for $8,000 in scholarship assistance through the Purner Scholarship-;Fellowship. The award in senior year is $3,000 (based on Financial need) and will continue as a $5,000 · fellowship in the 5th year. If you are thinking abQut staying the extra year to complete a Master's degree, please contact Prof. Arnold in Bailey Hall ( x 6237) before the end of Winter tenn, for further information. CLUB NEWS JSU Invitation-Friday, February 27, JSU .. h~s invited Newman Club members to a Chabot Dinner at Kosher Kit- chen, West. If you are accepting this invitation please meet Sr. Joan a few minutes before 5:30 p.m. at West. Reception in Rectory- SWlday, March 1, following the 7:30p.m. Liturgy at St. John the Evangelist, the Newman Club will host a reception in the Rectory for the Union Com- munity. Newman Club-Monday, March 2, at 7 p.m. in Whitaker House the Newman Club will hold its final meeting for the winter term. Come and help plan spring activities and enjoy refreshments. Ash Wedllesday Ecumenical Prayer Service-Wednesday, March 4, at . 4:30 p.m. fn Memorial Chapel, David Bodman and Sr. Joan VlalJD will conduct a prayer service and distribute ashes. Lenten calendars will be available. A performance of Anton Chekhov' s \The Three Sisters\ by the Perishable Theatre will be held at the Nott M ..... .u..•ur• on March 6, 1987 at 8:00 p.mu Tickets available at the ticket booth, Old Chapel 1st floor. Tickets for Students are $3.00 Others are $5.00 CONCORDIENSJS, February 16, 1'987 ' ' . . -- Folk Group--.All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the (:30 p.m. Liturgy at St. John's . may meet with Friar Phil at 6 :So- p.m. in the Church to rehearse. . Tutorial Program-Union , College students are needed in . the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten, Computer and Math Aides and Math & Reading on a one to one. Please contact Lisa Mercugliano, Fox Z52, 286-4183. Shut-Ins-Any Union College student who wishes to visit a shut .. in of St. John the Evangelist Parish on a regular basis during these long winter months, please contact Mark Slaga, South 102, 386-4480. Confirmation-April 26 Bishop Howard Hubbard will administer the Sacrament of Confirmation ·in St. · John the Evangelist Churcb. Union College students are invited too. Contact Sr. Joan. CLASSIFIEDS Student Off Campus Job. Student interested in .sitting for 17 month old child. Tuesday evenings from 6:3CI p.m. - 10 p.m. and 1 other evening oc- casionally. Within walking distance. Please contact 393- 2463. , Artisans, craftspeople & musicians interested in par- ticipating in women's week craft fair {April 8) please write to Box 1572. Professional tY}list will type on weekends - term papers, resumes, theses, etc. Call any time 399-4656. Student applications are being accepted in the Personnel Office, Silliman Ball, for s\lllllDer employment in the Alumni Gym. Positions · available include Lifeguards -($5.DO-hr.), Facility .Supervisors . and Equipment Room Per- som~l ($3.85-hr.). Only· those students who plan on spending · the summer in the Schenectady area need apply. Positions available in a downtown mental health agency operating residential homes· for adults struggling with mental illness. Ideal for students. Weekend anduor overnights. $4;50 hr. . paid sleeptime; Applicants shoUld have education or ex:perience in the human services field. Send resume or phone for application - 374•8424, Mohawk Oppor- · tunities in Mental Health, 218 Nott Terrace, Sch'dy, NY 12307. Found Mexican silver earring in Lamont House Parking Lot. Owner please call- Sandra Stake to identify. 32().6174. · Black and Latin Alliance for Students presents \Seven Bright Walkers\ Friday,. February 27, 1987. Memori~l Chapel, 8:00 p.m. Free ad• mission!! Spend the .summer in the Adirondaeks. Girl$' swniner . resident camp near ·Lake George s.eeks · counselors, . waterfront staff, progrpm, specialists and kitchen .staff. . Programs includ·e canoeing, cr~fts, backpael9ng, horseback riding, Project Adventure and environmental. education. Contact Mohawk Pathway$ Girl Scout Council,. 945 Palmer Ave., Schenec.tady,. NY 12309 •. The film c·o mmittee Feb. 28-lvl~;trch 1, DoU'ble Feat¥te: Death Race ,2000 at 7 and to; Road Warrior at 8:20 and 11: 20~ · · Tuesday, March 3, The Hustler at 7:.3() and 10, · Tickets can be purchased at · Old Chapel ·for $1. · . . . \Alice Eats Mushrooms\ Go See AL.ICEI February ·24-28, 1,987 .. 8 p .. m .. Nott Memorial Theatre $3 .. 00 Students $4.00 Faculty & Staff $5.00 General Admission s·panish· Table Mondays 12:30 p'.m. in. Hale House PEANUTS® by Charles M. ·schulz· . MD WE'RE ON PAGE TWENTV- THREE, NOT SIXTEEN ... ~--- t+ 's ·a scary ft:aV\SI -h'oVJ fo eP .froVlA oVle of +he counhys _rwsr . (espa: +Ed pr-ea'clet1+0 -io ~ cf +l4e yytJst q~ridllffi l~dividuats. _) _:-. . ' ;;,;, ' .

; .CONCORDfENSIS, Fe~rMary 26, 1987 . . - ._!!i!l!ill='fl!!i!!=S'!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!i!!!!!i. ~: · To my 3 buddies who've helped - . me straighten out my life: Thanks ~PERSONALS Ltiv. YXNAYCRMLC Meg, Please don't burn down . Union Hookers are No. 1. Let's the malb.! Without malls my do it and get right up on it. me would have no meaning! Buddy, Arf, arf; arf, Ar.f, Winston . Happy Four. r am D()t mushy and remember that benefits ar-e ' granted little ;by little , .. Eudy Nour ... (etc.) Youlightupmylife,. but you'd light it up even more if you finished your torch. See ya at dirtdin ~Big Sis NGBOHTWF AI People, Chapter l, \Slpoosh!\ Coach - Smile! Love, Me and the Kids . · Sweetheart, 1 hear the beaches and dunes at South Yarmouth are covered with.snow andice.· I can't wait to go and melt the ice · anc;l snow away. Love you! C & L- Nice t() not know how to Hey. Pyro - Like that ;partial eat - keep you.r lunch off yo11r . haircut -.-don't worry, it's all clothes -B relative. -D.B. CG: Happy 2lst airthday! A toast to M&.M. Thanks for the · talk last Friday, and remember rm always here for you, no matter what. You'll a1ways be myB.F.A.A.:F. P.S. Write mea note!! Love,CW · To New Peas: You;re the . cream of the crop! Many hangovers to come - Pod Posterity This here message is about \thangs\ an' barnyard animals; about you and me up in the bay in the loft, .and the cows liStenlrt down below, but mostly about \thangs.\ L. Kaplan for Mascot of .Alumni Gym! Has anyone seen here anywhere else lately? Nancy is a P11P tease, but· boy can she flashdance! Margie, Nancy, Gina, Thanks! I;venever had such-a · nice . birthdaJ, it was very · special. You're the greatest! Tweedle dunham: Monica Marymargaret - What hap- pened to your bangs? You should learn not to burn! How is that NBC series ·pvogressing? ~--------------- Congrats Lori-· Jen, · Smokey the Bear Japan won't be the same with . , . - - . ·To my favorite Chinese person you both there! - And Union . It may not be Valentine's won't be either. · · Day, but the heart phantom still with freckles- . I'm not easy but I had an amazing time SaturdaY ~ bopping with the best of them. Thanks. Too bad \her\ ·did not have an \H-3.'' night too. Best ofluck, lives! ! I Donna \l haven't quite figured it out yet, but it1s a good thing to stick your pinky in when you're bored.\ -Jodi L. Israel, 1987 Is this the hot-and~ready con- sultant? Signed, the cold and clammy consultant -:; . I LOVEYOU+A. . ~ . 'tffbc9 Wai1cDm ©!>rulC9ffi® ._... [Q)uj~ LPJ~ \1t1 n ara.plaaeed to preeant . . . ,.t'j - .. -. . . • . .. A. . ~ \[1 ,, Iim§..: ·6:30pm f· .,n ·!Jn.e.; Saturday ,February 28th Place: Old Chapel Dining Han \Open mouth, insert food.\ J.I. 2-13-87 11:()2p.m. A Farewell to Pinbot: Where oh where has my Pinbot gone? Where or where can it be? Is there life. after ·· ·Pinbot?- · ·' -A Skellar Rat ... Amy, though you may qot feei the same, you'll always be No.1 in my heart. Love and friend- ship, CJ To the Double L- Maybe we should write a maga~ine ar- ticle ... ! have a few questions to ask you. -A Bigger .L Get psyched for the Tri Delta formal! Plan on lots of fun! -The sisters and pledges ofTriDelta Yo Canary - Watch out - the trident wrappers are having a · coup-reproduction at its best-go · make obscene calls to your cousins & PHTG!. -S.V. Here Areclh~ Trivja Scores Af·ter the 2nd Week: Fratern ity/Sor:ority: 2BT-26, Phi Neat Guys-21 Dorms: West-20~; H ickok-15; Davidson-6 Independents: Fuzzy Nuts-21; Makes a nice sand.wich-12.; Nilgun' Yigit Bogata Fan Club-9; Fourplay·7.; the foll.owing teams all have one point: Chris;, The Lonely ·Gu.ys, Rich Chillout Crewt :Beaver St. Boys, Gus', candy Company, M&M Soc1al. Club, Basement Boys, Fisher's Rent-a-Rug. There were 17 s.tumpers, and 2 protests so far .... This week's bonus question: What is Durkee-Mower's only product; and how many calories does it contain -per ·tablespoon? , · The final round of questions begins at 8 p.m. this Sunday. Prizes wiil be I better than ever· inci'Uding a $30 Res11n1e from Copyright, a $10 gift certificate :to the Athlete's Foot, a free computer search at Schaeffer library and the.new WRUC super cootT-.shirts and· more food! ·- · · Good Luck Teams! SOT PLEDGES !~visible pledge pins and poor attitudes. Shape up or you'll be shipped out Hey Blonde Puppy, Happy birthday. I love you . -t-MC Michelle GD-TYVMFTMAW! You're too young to know • about· such things. Ask again • when you're a little older. · M. I WTB! L, M. Mona Pomona-- You're d~fin~tely getting into shape . B1g tune. Daisy Mae- . We'd love to sign your torch, 1f we could only see it! Blumenfeld-I hear they're ovvering intro to Hebrew at RPI. Jess- Step on any ants lately? · If it's been much too long then The short little red·haired girl - · ~top playing games! By the way now we know you're not telling, 1t's Pam to you, not Spam. so can we tell?. Ellen & Kate- KT- \Don't come down to my • room- I don't want you to see who is there!\ Congratulations on Haly. I think Ellen you'd better seaven for a pasta diet. I believe I saw one in Cosmo last year ... T-SHIRT DESIGN _G{Y ~ONTEST GfY Wonian's Week Is Con1ing Soon· . 8 • • . Design The T -Shirt And Win . .. »BIG PRIZES!!!« Tum In Ideas To Student Activities Office (Prizes To Be Announced) HALE· HOUSE'S FINE DINING INVITES YOU I Dinner Menu Strip Steak Boneless.Breast of Chicken -nightly specials -served over rice $4.25 $3.85 Pasta Special $3.85 All of the above served with tossed salad and fresh rolls Different Desserts Nightly Beer and Wine Available for Diners 21 and Older Hale House Fine Dining House Monday- Friday 5-7 p.m.. Open to faculty, students, administration, everyone welcome.

{: PagelS . February 16, 1987 a!nncnrnfensi~ · .... SPO NOT IN Robert Moves Into AdministratiQn THE B • ·O.· ·X·. ayoou~LAStLOYD . Another change in the ad· . ministration .of' Union Athletics' S ·(O:·R•E has been the addition of Coach · Carlyn Robert as assistal}t to the Athletic Director. Thi'S Mark move came about earlier in the term, at about tlle same time Zimmerman that coach Ai Bagnoli became an assistant. This past week the NHL All· · :But the sport of hockey is Coach Robert has the Stars played the .. Soviet All~ getting out of control. When responsibility of handling the Stars in two games of hockey. Congressional legislation must women's sporting events. The result of the games was a be passed concerning a sport, Included in bet responsibilities tie between the two teams.. something is definitely wrong. are scheduling fer all the Charly.n Rollerts However, the game of hockey As of now, enjoy the fights that . women's teams, making up Robert's performa11ee on the itself learned a big •lesson from you see on the television travel itineraries and making sidelines is any indic!ltiC)n.of the theS{l games which should not highlights because eventually sure the women's home events job she. will do as an ad- be <>verlcoked. With the ex· there will be no fights due to the . are run smoothly for both tbe ministrator them Ricbard . ception of a few minor consequences faced by par- Dutch 111 en and their guests. Sakala, the Di.ree1or of no problems! . Coach RObert ,coaches both the women's field hockey and softball.· teams, both of wbich ha~e come i,nto successive post· season play .since the ·arrival of Coach Robert. In 1985 botb }ier teams set record marks; field hockey wo11 the most wins in a season (10) since the sport's inception in 1975, and the soft- ball team accomplished .the same record winning 12 games. This 12 win season in 1985 was duplicat~d in ·1986 including more post•season play. The administration of Union College athletics seem~:~ to now be stocked With all-stars in which th~ big winners are Union's, athletes. penalties, the games were ticipants in them. If the recent success of Coach Athletics, will have ;;~bsolUtelY virt11ally flawless. Obviously, ,------------------..!-~.,.......- .......... ..__---------------------=---=---....-=----:=--\\\'\':::\\\\------..,....- ~J!i.~r~t~~::;~:~~t~:t~: • ·Lady Dutchmen· Set Found'at:i:a\ F'or Future ponent is from another nation . · and not a regular NHL team. :, The point is, no fighting oc· clll'red! To be honest, I am not against hockey .fights, sometimes they are quite ex:· citing. The only problem is the frequency with which they '' occur. When a hockey game. is ; midway or late in the third · period of a close game, the only thing on the players' minds sholl.ld be to score a goal. Frequently in the NHL a ~earn will .put the game awa~· 9n a ; powerplay late in the grlllle due to some pointless p~nalty committed by the other . team. Football, which has just l}s much contact as .hockey, rarely · sees a fight during the course of a game. 1£ hockey did what the NFL did and viewed such vicious bits as that of Charles Martin, there would be more people suspended than therE would l>e playing. Football does not tolerate excessive violence · and llockey should not either. Recently, Mayor Flynn of Boston even made a proposition to arrest any . athlete that participates in a fight during the course of an· athletic event. In my opinion, this would be somewhat too extreme. To arrest an athlete for a fight shollld not be termed under the same heading as someone who is arrested for a barroom brawl. Yet, if fighting continues in the NHL, pathetic legislation like this might someday .pass, and legitimately. It would be a shame if the sport of hockey ever came to this result, but I would not doubt it if the type of hocltey we are seeing now were to continue. In college hockey, any player fighting is ejected and possibly suspended. The result: there is rarely an all-out hockey fight in college. To take an overall look at the situation that is now occurring in NHL hockey is not hard. There are many fights and a great deal of the public seems to enjoy them. SUPPORT UNION SPO·RTS '· The success of the 1986-87 women's basketball season at Union College has set the foundation for a promising future. This year's team became only the third in the 11- year history of the program to post at least 10 wins. Once more, second-year head coach E01rnie Gehling did it with just two seniors, three juniors, one sophomore, and eight fresh- men. \I'm very, very .pleased at what we accomplished this year,\ said Gehling, who in two years at the helm has posted 19 victories. \Though we fell a bit short of our overall g<1al of achieving at least a .500 record (Union's finlll overall mark was 10-13), all of our young players saw a great <leal of playing time an.d that has got to help us ip: :the near fpture. I honestly\fe~1 that another solid recruiting year will put -us over the top and make us a very competitive prcgram. This year we laid the foundation, nex:t year we start bllilding the house.\ There is no question that senior tri-captains Elaine Pick and Barb Weisinger will be missed. Both players are four- year letter winners and three- year starters. Pick graduates with a 5.0 average and 182 assists while Weisinger leaves with a 7.9 SC()ring average, a 6.8 rebounding average, and a school-record 184 blocked shots .. ' \ :, <I~ M,;t .... JI .. !~!ff;A!';!'§;,;s·· ~-.:;.,.:; ·,: <t£;LQ~\~i:?ii~1~;~: w-u~:·\''·-~··.v. ~ · This year she broke her own single-season record of 68 (set as a sophomore) with 77 blocks. \Pickles (Pick) and Barbie (Weisinger) have meant so much to this program,\ said Gehling. ''Not only am I sorry to l()se them as players, but as people and leaders. I wish I had been at. Uni(m. throughout their entire careers.\ Junior tri-captain Colleen Dund()n was a major part of building the f01mdation and will also be a key .factor next year as the Lady Dutchmen begin to build their house of success. Dund()n, a three-year starter, had her best season as she led the team in points (249), scoring average (10.8), and steals (70) while finishing second hi rebounding (158) behind Weisinger's JGl. · Juniors ·Michele: Van Patt'~n and Mary An,n DUnham both saw a good deal of playing tilne this year. Van Patten, a three- year letter winner has the ability to be a strong con- tributor nex:t season as does Dunham; who averaged 4.2 points and four rebounds in her first season on the team. This year's, experience will benefit both women, and the team, as they bid for a starting berth at center and forward, respec- tively. Sophomore Julie Gallo showed a great deal of maturity and advancement from her excellent rookie c a:rn:paign. Gallo, a part-tim~ starter, finished. fifth in scGJrin,g and provided the team ~L111 a great deal of ,Leadersbip ,()n the :court. Freshman gu;u-,d.s Wendy Vincent and Gwen ~t eve11s will join Gallo as Union \'8' 'gllards of the near future. N\ot oll1y did both gain a great deal of valuable experiencE, bDtll are talented players wllo g~ve 100 percent of their e::ffort and energy every timE illey are on the cottrt. Vincent, ·a part .. time starter, finished as ,tile team's third-leading scorer' v.ri1h a 7.9 average. She was also the leading free throw sh()ooer with a 64.9 average, wasthirdwitl:l43 assists, and tied for secoad with 46 steals. · ''I feel very good Clbol.lt our guard situation,'' said Oehling. \They all work very hatd and. tliey are aU·coachallr.e }llayers; uThey give eve~rything of themselves everytirme thElY are on the court. Once more, all three of them have the t)'pe of personalities that k~Cep .a team loose.\ In the .front court,. t~e future lies With Geri B()mi, Jennifer Regan, Chris Rutle<lge, Ellen Tapley, Lynda llyiles, and Kathy Polzner: Tlmllgh a preseason injury kElr:-t Polzner from seeing any cou:rt time, she learned a lot about Ctlach Gehling's system b;y a ding as the team's managel'. Mean- whil~, the rest ofthegrC)llp saw Seniors Appreciated Senior captains Elaine Pick {23) and Barb Weisinger (55) led the Lady Dutchmen basketball team to only their third 10-win season in the 11- . year history of the sport during tbe recently concluded season. Both seniors helped set the foundation that second year .. coach Bonnie Gehling is hcping to build· a house of success upon next season. With a dozen un- derclassmen returning next year, the team look very solid. o Pick, who is looking for her 12th :g varsity letter as a starter on the o. lacrosse team this spring, was e voted to the Rochester lnvy AU· tJ) Tournament Team last weekend. a good deal of playing time. Four games kept the Lady Dutchmen from reaching the coveted ,500 record, a mark the program has attained only twice before in its. ll .. year history. Union blew· a l<J•point lead iri a 62..,54 loss at home against Dcrninican early in the season, dropped a50-47 game at Dominican, lost al Green Mountam, 51-50, in the final,' three seconds, and lost thf~ consolation game of the Capital District Tournament to RPI, -{;.5-· 44, frofu the foul·line. · ·· The Lady- Dutchmen finished the horne p.ottion · .of thei:l;' schedule with a convhrcing 78•27 . win over Vassar, then ended the long season by losil)g both garnes 'of the\ Rochester Tournament by scores of 7~-47 (to Rochester) and 70-35 (to Clavks<!nh· - - · · · · ·, · ; · _,_ · ''!honestly believe that Union can achieve the success that schools like Rochester, Ithacaj and Clarkson have attained over the years,,, Gehling continued. ''Our players had a chance to see that sac,cess first hand and it couldn't do anything but mak-e them hungry for the same type of success. We have a very talented, competitive, prideful group . of returning playet:s next y~ar. I know that the maturity and ac- complislunent that we achieved this year will benefit us as we enter next season.\ · Elaine Pick.

CONCORlJIEN$lS,.Febhititfl6, 1987 lC) ·.Athlete of the Week ByOOUGLASLLOYD . Senior runner Julie Halpern has been chosen as this week's '''Athlete of the Week.'' Julie is participating at the varsity leve~ for her fourth year in a row m a Dutchman uniform and seems to get' better with age. J.ulie's specialities· includ-e (mdoor) the 1-4 mile { 400m) and (outdoor) the 1-4 mile hurdles. \Julie's increased dedication to the conditioning program this past f~ll has led to her position as a .fme runner and leader on the women'strackteam'' stated coach Russ Ebbets. An example of her incredible physical condition was during the Union women's Invitational in which She ran a total of 6 races in 4 hours, placing well in all. This past Sunday at the West Point Invitation. Julie qualified forthe New York State!s with a 64.51 (electronic dock time) lf4 mile. Other highlights in Julie's career are holding the school record in the 55m hurdles at 9.4 seconds, ;lleing the 2nd higllest scorer In the women's indoor team, lloldin.g tb.e poSition of the lead·offT·umer in the milerelay for tlle p-.ast 3 years, and being chosen as: the MVP in her SOphollloxe year. Congl'atlllatio.ns to Julie, a native «Jf Heurison, New Yark on being selected \Athlete of the Week\ and good luck to the psychO!log-y major tomorrow and Sat\ll1da:y at the New York State meet. MANDA'TORY M:EETING. MEN'S RUGBY Mo·nday, March 2 at 4:30 !p.m. .. . . -ln. One of th·e Rugby Rooms Return1ng Playe,rs; N:ewcomers Welcome RobMohlar~ DulyRecognized When does a Maine -high school . basketball player and Union College basketball recruit become a Union soccer standout and track star? When that Maine native is Rob Mohlar. . Mohlar, a Senior at Union and a native ()f Readville, Maine, the winter, although he had thought about trying out .for the basketball team (as a senior in high school he had received calls from Union basketball coach Bill Scanlon) because of the length of his SOccer season, Mohlar fell far behind in his basketball training. That, combined with some words from track coacli Russ Ebbets, he instead went out for indoor track. · has done more than j'ust spend time earning an E11gineering Degree in his last three and a half years ·. here at Union. Mohlar has .spent three and a half seasons as a Varsity soccer o starter, and four record- \E breaking track y~ars for the -a Dutchmen. · · o \He was very quiet when he <n came here four years ago,\ commented Union men's soccer coach Bob Magee. ''He also came with a lot.of skill.\ Mohlar wasn't recruited for soccer, but decided to- tty out for .the team anyWay. \I played.JV's my first year,\ he said, \and I wasn't invited back for my second yea~, but I came·back .anyway.\ Mohlar, in high sch()ol played basketball and soccer. However, by his j~or year, he found that he had nothing to do in the spring. \So I started . running track. f, Although he runs distances from 400 to 1500 meters, he says his favorite ~stance is 800 meters. \It combines speed and en- durance,\ he explained, ob- viously having enough of both; last May he broke ex-Union student and future NCAA Champion Kevin Scheuer's Hr79 800 meter outdoors record by running it in 1:50.5, \One garne,\ Magee said, \Dave Philbrick got injured and Rob filled in for him .. He'~ started for us (at rigbt fUllback) from that time on. He's had three super years as a starter. He played nex:t to All- American Guy Claveloux and showed an awful lot of skill and talent. He~s a delight to .coach..; we're going to mi$s him. He qUietly shows his talent •.• notby .talk, but by ~ction.\ Magee said that Mahlar is a very, very strong player,. and altbough lle came from Maine, a state not known as a soccer powerhouse, he proved .he had the talent to make it .. Mohlar, known to his soccer teammates afS· \Horse is as Magee pu~ it, \a big lad (6'0''· 180). Playing on muddy fields .is tQ his disadvantage (because of his size) but he never com- plained about the mud. He also never got as much attention as Guy Claveloux, but that didn't bother hiin either. He gets along with everyone extremely well.\ . During his freshman Year, Mohlar had planned o~ l'Wlning track, but not in the winter. In Tbe · 800 may be Mohlar's favorite race, but that hasn't stopped him from .doing ex- tremely well in his other races. He'$ ranked third in the New York State Association for the 600 meter, ·and first in the NYS :ASsociation in the 1000. meter. He aJs? anchored the winning two·mtle relay team his sophomore, and junior years with teanunates Jeff Barker, Mike Reed, and · Winston Britain. Both Barker and Reed are his running mates this year in the relay, the fourtb.spot still being open. . As far .as soccer goes, Union Trac;k Coach Russ Ebbets felt that it was a \beautiflil com- p~ent\ to Mohl~'s running ability. \Soccer lS a tnore complementive sport to tWining up to the 800 meter distance. After that, you need more of a long-dilltattile running base.\ ''Socc::er has helped my speed,\' lMolllar .feels. \I gat a little ~ore: strength becaqse it (soccer }involves more st£ength than jus r11rming.\ Ebbets commented that Mohlar b~dles set-backs as part of:t!J.e gane. \He sllffered a knee illj11ry his last soccer game !Jf llis junior year; He came back after only five days of trainin~ 1() win the 500 at the Colgate-Platt~burgh-Union tri- meet.\ MoWai· e:xplained, \The knee injury pnt me out for two montll~~\ After coming back to run the:l!»O irll:08 (he now runs it in l:06) he knew it was the beginning of what was to be a great yea:r. He qualified for the Nationals bllt ended up taking only ainth place in the 80(). \I had a b:ad race,\ he explained. \I ran it three seconds slower than IISllat_ Pm keying for that this year. I want to win it this time (end ·.gf spring term.)\ Also his junior year (last year) Molllar won some big invitat~onal meets. \ The Dartmo'llth InVitational is a pretty- &:Jig meet,\ he said. In that, he W()!l. the 800. \That's when I .new 1 could do it.\ . In e!{plaining Moblar's suc;cess, Ebl>et~ said that he is ''very seli•rn()tivated. He didn't have tile most sophisticated track l>a~kground when he came bere. He came as a high jumper;. lie has a very good cardio-1fa3C!ular system. Had he gone crt()ss oountry (instead of soccer) l!e wvBuld also have done very w--ell. I trained him· to complerne11t his soccer.'' ''He c10uldrun all day without getti11g t.ired,\ Magee said concemillg Mohlar being in such good.£1lape for soccer. Anoth.'ilr reason for his suc- cess, EIJbeULSaid, has to do with the grotap of friends he ran with. Bob Stenard, Mike Reed, Jeff Barker; Cbris O'D<mnell, and Billy :Mc::J:hJberts among others are gi()(ld friends of Mohlar' s and all \'ba.~ a positive attitlide towards th.in:gs,\ Ebbets .said. \They all d() a tremendous volume: .~f physical work tbroqgh10ut thie year.'' 41 The)f mlt.ke it enjoyable,\ Oinncnriliensis SPORTS By .\NDREW MILLER As Winter melts into Spring, hopefully, it is time to take a look at the ins and outs of the world.of sports. Here is a purely subjective list of one man's opinion of who's hot and what's not, of what's coming and who's going,, and where it will be in '87. Leading off is a category near and dear to our hearts, college football. The Union College Dutchmen are definitely on the \in\ list. Although they have had recent troubles ,in the Stagg tournamenttheir depth of talent and coaching should take them a long way. Speaking of a long way, will head Coach Al Bagnoli be on the \going\ list? Bagnoli's utterly impressive 4a,;a won-loss record in regular season play may be his ticket to the big leagUes. Sports Illustrated's Sport- sman of the Year Joe Paterno; Penn. St~te's Mr . .Nice Guy, ·~· always on the \in\ list. . qtampionship season or not, Patern() conducts his program with class and the high stan· dards, both athletic and academic, that have made him the father figure . of college football. In the team category lookou.t . for Arizona State. After walt~ zing through the Rosebowl with their ~onvincing victory, and the fact that the team remains virtually intact for another season it looks like the Slln DeVils will be soaking up a lot of rays atop the. college football world for '87-'88. Rounding out the \in\ categ()ry for college football are bowl sponsors and an NCAA. playoff system. The motive behind this selection is safety. The feeling here is that one o~ the other has to give, creating a dominant method for the declaration of a national champion. The real excitement stems from a proposed merger of a playoff system backed by- corporate sponsors. This combination ·would highlight college football at its best. . The thou~ht of C(}rporate sponsors brmgs us the first victim of our \out\ category. Corporate sponsors getting int() the game of collegeeeall is here to stay, but the name game has to go. Corporate remanimg of the bowls brought us probably- the worst title in all of sport: the U.S. Fidelity and Guarantee Sugar Bowl-ouch! Vinny ''interception\ Testeverde is out--thank goodness. The man who invadecl our homes with his obnoxious family Saturday after Saturday- is out of college football. Afte~ · the Orange Bowl loss to Penll State ·not only Testeverde's . . college career came to an end,. but also the mystique of an individual who truly choked mtder pressure. Rounding .out the list of who's going ls none other than Mr. Claifol Brian Bosworth. The \Boz\ and steroids made front · page news this season. After Bosworth a staunch Qpponent of tlul~e of steroids, made pU:blic service announcements ex- . plaining the dangers of the drug Mohlar said of his friends. \Sometimes training gets you down, they make it more fwt. t have fun anyways. ,; As far as Mohlar's future after college goes, Ebbets feels that \if he were to take three, four,. or five years to dedicate himself, he would become one of With a Perspective ·On Sports Andrew Miller he was ruled ineligible to compete in post season play due t() traces of steroids in his system. Comeon Brian who are you fooling? Category two comes from the .wacky world bf professbnal wrestling. Roddy Piper, o11ce the bad boy of professional wrestling, makes his fi~st ap- .pearance on the \in\ list. His sudden change of heart to do hattie on the side of good lias crowds standing and chanting the praises of the ''Hot Rod.'' Piper is not the only wrestler to jump ranks. Andre the Giant has now joined forces with the evil Bobby \the brain Heina.n,\ (I . love th.ese imaginative nicknames). Andre is out l He will do battle with the Hulltster in Wrestlemania .III, alSo out. Turnign to our nati~nal pastime--Baseball is back. After . two championship .playoffs and a world series like that .of '86, baseball has ollce again regained our hearts and attention. The \in\ list is a conglomeration of up-alld- conling talent in both C()llege and pro. The war cry of tile Florida State Seminoles will be the noise makers in the '81 college baseball season. Last year's world series l()sers to Arizona St. are c.urre~tly ranked in the top4 and are CJff to a hot 9-1 start. It looks like ibe Seminoles are on the war path again. · Tile pro ranks selection for the ''in\ list may surprises few people. Three teams cCJn• sistently dredging in the deptbs of mediocrity are going to he '87's da11k horses. The San Francisco Giants, Minnes«Jta Twins, and Cleveland India:ns, all chosen to finish fifth in th~ir respective leagues by the baseball writers associati«Jn, will challenge for tlleir divisional titles. The Giants and Indians are yoWlg teams that are blessed with a wealth ()f talent. I know it's a shock, but if the pitching comes thro11gh don't be surprised to see the Tribe battling the Giants in the October classic. As for Min- nesota they have put together a fascinating ballclub throllgb winter-meeting dealings. The· Twins have answered virtuaJly all of their question marks, and. if they can work a deal for Ron Guidry, are looking to take the divisional title in the weal American League West. ~or players Marl;y Barrett, Julw Franco, and Mike Scott all have earned recognition and the right to be on the \In\ list. Barrett and Scott .proved themselves in the playoffs and series with phenominal IJer- formances.tbat warrantedth.'E!m the accolades they so deserve. Julio Franco's stellar play at ·short for Cleveland just may- be the biggest reason the Tribe will contend in '87. The baseball \out\ list is brief and to the point. Proposed expansion of a ballclub in Denver is definitely out. It's just too cold in both the Spring and. the Fall. By the time the ball gets. from the pitcher to the catcher in the mile high air it ~ have icicles hanging f~om tt. c - • - . ontinued next week the better runners. in Amer\ica ... And what might have llap- pened if Ebbets didn't talk Moblar out . of trying out for basketball during indoor track season of his freshman year? Ebbets didn't seem worried. \I don't think he could go to his left anyway.\ 5,-· .. ~ ..

r; !.... (]) a. a. rc ~ ~ >- ..0 0 .... C' .t: a Hoops te reach post~season play • . . February 26, 1987 Barker, Others Lead Tracksters Hoopsters Look to ECAC P·l:ayoffs By MEN'S TRACK TEAM Last Sunday, the Union track team tcok on some of the top teams in the East at the MAC championships at West Point. Although Union was unable to produce an individual winner in the highly competitive meet, severBl athletes turned in their best performances of the season. The Dutchmen were led by jlmior Jeff Barker, who easily qualified f.or the state meet in Kavaney, Curtis Set Records By MARTY PHIPPS rebotuldS respectively. the 800 meter-s. Running on the B 11dr \RK VAN BUREN \~Ill· ()f the. season. Seventeen Military Academy's 6-lane, ~00 Y 1 •.an .. meter track, Barker led his heat pvillts and nine rebounds from h · 1 t b The Union College men's Kurt Fox led Union. Ken Levine t e entire way, on Y 0 e ,. b ll d d ·· \\\cl Joe Rome· r· fol·lo·wed Fox_ DUTC'_..,..,.EN NOTE- S· K·•• ht th f . 1· t B k basl.\:et a team recor e a prur ..... a1u . · .. · . _ . • • • - ~,~ f c.a~'t don edmab ptrnl. ;r:der of easy wins this. past we.ek in WitiJ 14 and 10 points respec- Fox: cClntinues to pace Union in llilsue · secon ' u c oc e · a d f t' RPI '76 59 d tl·v.al,. Net'·l W. t'n·a·wer, who th m' g and re-bounding season's best time -of l:5B.l. cfa~ks~:~!i9...S2. ' - ' an sco;e'd only two points, chipped ca~eg:~1~s. Aft.er 2~ games he Also having an excellent <lay Union raced out to an early 10- in, with 7 assists and 11 was :a-veraging 17.7 ppg and 7.9 was senior Mike Reed in tne 4 lead against RPI. But when reoounds. rpg. ltoe Romer (12.3 ppg'), 3000 meters. Reed, in his first Paul Yattaw hit a short jump- Inavery similar game, Union Torn :Bee~ (11.5 ppg) and Neil try at the event, broke the 9 shot at the 11:02 mark in the h~CI problems with a pesky WinaVIer (11.1 ppg.) are the minute barrier, running 8! a~.4 opening half, the Engineers had Clarkson team in the first .half. other d.ouble figure scorers for as he also qualified for the state closed the gap to 15-12. Union After- opening up a 14.6 lead, the Dutclunen. Winawer (5.6 meet.BobStenardwasnotfar againownedasix-pointlead,21- Clarkson closed the gap and rpg), Doug Gregory_(5.4 rpg) behind Reed in the same raCJe, 15, when Doug Gregory scored ptllle<i to within four pc)ints, 20.. ancl Romer( 4.5 rpg) follow Fox as he ran a quite respectable on a lay-up with 7:38 left in the 16_, with just und.ernine minutes in the rebounding colwnn . · · 9:08. Junior Jim LeBron also firsthal:f. RPifoughtrightback to )llay in the half. However, put in a notable performance, . and trailed by only two points, !Curt Fox's basket at the 7:49 Entning Union's game vs. as he t·aced strongly in the open 23-21, with 4:25 left before muk started a 10-2 Union run Nor-Wil!h, Fox: had amassed 876 mile, taking four seconds off ilis halftime. The Dutchmen went which put the Dutchmen up 30- career points. He needs only 47 personal best as he was timed in on to 011 tscore RPI 13-8 for- the 18. lTnion stayed in control for points to move into lOth place on 4:29. Other strong competitors · remainder ofthe period to take the rest ofthehalftotake a 36~23 the a.ll•time scoring list. With The Women's swim team for the Dutchmen incl11ded a 36-29 halftime lead. lead as the teams headed for the his 1Z4th point, Fox Will become ended its season Saturday at the Steve.Hayes, who ran 5?.6 in the Union came out in the second lockerrooms. only tile ninth. player in Union New York State WCAA Division 400 meters, Chip Si.iver, who half and immediately took The second half was much of basketball history to score 1,000. III Swimming and Diving triple jwnped 12.25 meters and control ()f the g3Ille. Kurt Fox's the same, as Union never led by career points. With the Out- Championships. During the high jumped 6 fel:lt 4 inches. and lay-up 4:24 into the period gave less than 12 points. The Dut- cltr.nen headed to post-season three day event, nine Union Jeff Simkins, who put together a · the Dutchmen a 50~34 ad- cllrnen obtained their largest com(>etitiGn, it is a goodbetthat records were broken as Union good pent~thalon perfor~;1nce vantage. A 12-8 run, capped off lea(! of the contest, 21_ points, Fox '\Vill get at least 47 points swimmers achieved their despite takmg a nasty fallm the by Scott Gibbs' 20-footer, in the witll 2:05left to play when Joe and:sliould break the 1,000-point per-sonal best times for the 55 meter h11rdles portion of that next seven minutes increased SctJtt converted two free throws ban'iEL\ in the first couple of season. Kathy Kavaney (90) set event. the Uni()n lead to 6242. Union fol' a G5-44 lead. Union went on games next season ... Union, new records in the 50 • 100 • and The Union women's team, went allead 67-46, its largest to JlOst an easy 69-52 victory. whohl)sted NCAA Tournament- 200 butterfly with times of28.75, coming off their third place lead of the game with 5:32 K:urt Fox's 20 points paced bound Norwich University (20- 1:04.40 and2:27.20 respectively. finish at the Union Women's remainillgtoplay, on a 3~point tJnioll. Joe Romer had 12 points, 3) on Tuesday; are awaiting These times placed her 13th in Invitational raced at West PCJint field goal from Mark Trudeau. while Neil Winawer and Doug word CJn. a post-season tour- the 100 and 200~ and she went to as well. The lady -Dutclunen The Dutchmen cruised the rest GrEgory .. had 10 points, 5 namen.t bid which will come out b~~~-a~~~~ ~~~~~in~~~~o~ft~h~e_w~a:y_e_n_r_oo_t_e_~_t_h_~_·_1_~_h __ re_b_o_~-~--~-d--7~~-i_n_~_,_9_~e_a_rl~y~n_e~~~-~w-~_k~--=~=~ the 50. Cindy Curtis ( 90) set · . . three new breast-stroke meters, as all six competitors m teresting but when Dan Gould records, with a 35.11 in the 50, that event finished below 2 : 39 · ••• bl11nlced 9-0 to Norwich inadvertently slipped the puck 1:19,42 in the 100, and a 2:53.4 in Junior Jen Lee led the con- D f h H f E d .passed a surprised Ron the200.Sheplaced10thinthe50 tingent with a time of 2:30.1, - U C men _ 0_.,~ . 0 n . Kingb()rnwithouta·Cadetin.the breast~ Three ofthe relay teams followed by Lynne Erdman's offensi'Ve zone, it was settled set new records as well. The 200 2:33.5, Sherry Cargile's 2_: 34.~, Sea,s· o· -n o.n Po·· .s· ). ,·.·v·· e N.-o_t. -e that til~ Dutchmen were set to Medley Relay team finished and Maria Leonard, Amy Pe1rt, - play in their season long self- with a 2:07.42, (Pizzuto, Curtis, and Nora Tuthill's time of ByGAVINMORTON witli a hat-trick and five points de!rtntct mode. Kavaney, Lipster) and the 2:33.5. The women's 400 meter whileTomBensonfinishedwith Intile third period it seemed same team swam a 4:40.56 in runners also looked strong on · On Tnesday of last week the ·a. pail' of goals and seven points. as th<lugb Union just wanted· to the 400 Medley Relay. The 200 Sunday, as Julie Halpern and Union College Skating Dut- · Norwich slowed their pace in get tbe game over with. Tiley freestyle relay set a record with Claire Lytle clocked times of chmen played their last home the .second period with just one had ~l1lY siX shots on goaltender a 1:54.30. (Lipster, Nolan, 64.4 and 66.4 seconds~ respec- game ofthe season. In losing g.,o goal but exploded for four more Tag Leon, their lowest total Curtis,. Kavaney). . tively. Halpern and Lytle came . . to the Norwich Cadets, the goals in the third period . and ·Since the fo.ur shots they took These new records and strong back with Cargile and Lee. to Dutclunen put in their worst again scored in short-handed against RPI · way back at the swims by other team members run legs on the 1600 meter relay game ()f the year and received and JlOWer play .situations. _ start of the season. capped off a good season for the team, which ran a very qllick their worst beating since Match The play that typified the team. Despite the difficulty of time of 4:26.6. Lorie Ander-son 1984 when Babson hammered mtire game and maybe the Le.o!i: f~hed the J)ight by not having a pool for practice, competed strongly ii1 the. open Uriion a.o· in the National finalS. · entire season for the Dutchmen stopping all 26 Uni.on $hots and the team finished the season pentathalon and _ mLS~ed While the Dutchmen played was in the third period with ROll Killghorn, feeling aml with a 3-7 record. Now that · qualifying for the state m\t by like a ttlam that lmew it could Unio11 on a power play. Trailing loqkillg very deserted~ stopped Union has a pool, the team is only41 points as.she took.seoond • .not g.o to the playoffs, the 6-0 at the time, a power play 31 of 40. shots in what will looki:ng fonvard to an even · place with Z159 points. · . Cadets played inspired hockey g-<!al woUld have at least h~ve probably be his laSt start <if the stronger season ne~ year. We The women's mile and two and could be one of the hottest made the game more. Ul.- year,. will ollly lose one senior' Donna mile relay teams will be looking · . teams in Division tt. Gardiner, Who has made great to do well this weekend, as the · Norwich scored early and contributions as captain, diver team travels to the state meet. often as they built a 4.0 lead and ~backstroker. So look for us· · after o.ne period, including a next year (or join us) when we The men will be at RPI on power play and sh()rt handed will be able to have home meets Saturday, competing in the RPI goal. Senior Tom Benson and in the new pool! invitational. . Juniorlinemate Rick McCarthy ..::.=:....:.::.:.:...::.:..:.:.:... __ _._ __ _:~-----------, led the charge as Benson had one goal and3 assists in the first period and McCarthy had two Support Hoopsters in ECAC's goals and one assist. Mccarthy finished the night 111e Union Basketball feam closed out llle regular season witll an exciting 12·69 overtime win o¥er 'lhe 'Norwich Clldets Tuesday. Hope for home court in. first playoff game.

