•• Founde 1877 CXVI, · ~o. 23 Alterations In Cale;nd.ar and ·Curric:ulum Planned Preparations for Gel~ Time Highlighted Conflicts, Teaching Format, Card Courses Considered . By DEBRA B. HONIG Registrar Dwight Wolf took • the opportunity to ex:plain the mechanicB of Gel-'l.'ime, in preparation for its debut at pre- registration later this. month. Students should expect their classes to meet either Monday, Wednesd~y, and Friday for 65 · minutes, ~or T:uesday and Thursday for 100 minutes,. for a total of 200 minutes weekly. Mathematics classes will, still run for 250 minutes weekly, and lab periods will still be 170 minutes lo:ng. · \This w~y, classes are distfi'but'ed ,: over eight · pei·iods, and it may be a little .. easier for students to get the courses . they want.\ Under the ptesent schedule, most Classes meet four days a week for 50 minutes. In .order to maintain the approximate nutnber of class minutes, the school had to ex:tend the length of each class, period~ Registrar Wolf said, \It simply means . that we're scheduling courses into different time periods than we currently ate, and that's literally all that Gel-Time is.\ Scheduling Preparation ' According to the registrar. students will go through the same course selection process when coordinating . their schedtiles. A student still might find that the classes he wants to take conflict with one another. When the registrar asked the department chairpersons to re- . create this past fall and winter tenns into Gel-Time, however, the chairpersons coordinated their .schedules with each other • so· that classes required for · particular majors do not con- · flict. The Registrar said, \We are asswning that when we asked them to do it for this coming fall for real, that they;U · do the same thing. We f;laid to them, 'You've already done the fall tenn for play, and it worked, so don't make any dramatic changes.\' Students will have a little more leeway in selecting class times as a result of this new weekly design, since there will be one additional lab period and one additional class period. According to the Registrar, \We decided that we were only using 80 percent of the school week, with claS$roonts Sitting vacant most of Wednesday . . . This way, classes are distributed over eight periods, and it may .be a little easier for · Continued. on page 3 ,New Curriculum Proposal Released Tomorrow Gado Committee Presents Plan to A.A. C. ByFIONASHUKRI The Gado committee is ex- pected to release its final report on its propos~d General Educationplan to tne Academic Affairs Committee tomorrow. This coming 'l'hursday a meeting is scheduled to discw;;s the proposal, and the week following is being used for the . committee to listen to the AAC's comments and suggestions. The committee will present its final proposal on the . ninth week of the term. Jw1e 1 is slated for the finalizing faculty vote between the original cW'rielllllii1 cbange proposal and the one still to be presented by Gado's com- mittee .. See related . ·editorial,·· p·· 10 Following a discussion considering \Core Curriculum vs. Distribution.'' held .Sep- tember 24, 1985, Union's Sub- council on the curriculum began itsreviewof the clJI'rent Liberal Learning program. September 2, 1986 the subcotlncil, headed by Professors Zwicker and · Sorutn, presented its ptoposal for changes in the liberal arts pr.ogram. The . proposal was voted on by the faculty-6() percent approving of the new outlin, and then was reviewed . and approved by the AAC. Although the proposal was sanctioned by the AAC, the dissatisfaction of 40 percent of the faculty with the plan was felt to be significant enough for action. A petiticn was cir• culated and successfully o b- tained the 30 faculty signatures needed to mandate .an e'valuatorymeeting ofthe·entire faculty. Another V()te was taken and this time 58 percent of the faculty felt that another com- mittee shoUld be formed t& investigate altetior CUITiculum possibilities. Since that time a committee headed by Professor ...c: .t: E Cl) § Cl) .0 ~ :>. .0 May 7, 1987 National Syndicated Journalist Speech to Highlight Parents' Weekend By MICHAEL C. SILBERSTEIN ~ ..c Highlighting the festivities of < ' ,. o. Parents' Weekend will be a talk -What will next year's freshman class academic studies be like by Jack Anders()n. Anderson is with the proposed curriculum change? Sea article on left. one of the most famous SUNY Albany Hosts S.D.I. Debate Bowman One of Four Panelists By EZRA SHERMAN the. direction in which our nuclear weapons development Apr~ 30, .SU:NY: Albany w~;~s . . is. . p;r.ogr~ssing. la a host to a debate entitled '\Star vulnerability-based deterrence Wars: The l>fos and Cons.\ The 'system, the '!temptation is to debate started at 7:30 and drew · increase the number of systems approximately an audience of which can be reaimed at the 300. Presenting the pro side was · other weapons. We can destroy Dr. Richard Joseph from the the offense and then rnop up.\ Strategic Defense Initiative Obviously, in light of the Organization; and Dr. Nicllolas current strategy, the temp- Zumbulyadis from the Science tation to increase the number of and Engineering Conunittee for weapons has been over- a Secure World. Presenting the whelming. Dr. Joseph pointed opposing side was Dr. Rebert out that it takes about 1000 Bowman, Director of the warheadsforonesuperpowerto Institute for Space and Seclll'ity be assured of destroying the Studies;. and Dr. James N. other. The United States and the Corbett, Distinguished Service Soviet Union each have around Professor at the University of 10,000 warheads. Albany. The question posed by S 1 · both sides was, would the world \its ( .D.I.) goa IS to : be safer with ·the Strategic block the Soviet Uaion Defenselnitiativeorwithoutit? from tb.inking of · · Joseph and Zumbulyadis would . launching a first•strike · have us believe that S.D.I. . .attack of its own.\ . would make the world safe(, while Bowman and Corbett would have us believe .it wottld not. Dr. Joseph's and Dr. Zum• bUlyadis' argument revolved around the need for an alter· native to the deterrent system that we now have. They assert that it is questionable how much .longer a MAD strategy will. be • effective especially considering' Proponents of SDI present it as an attractive alter11ative to nuclear based deterrence. Dr. Joseph asserted that S.D.I. \is not a system to be used to launch a first-strike against the U.s.s.R.\ Rather, its goal is to block the Soviet Union from thinking of Launching a first· strike of its own. A system which is 85 percent effective would protect 80 percent of o~· . military targets. A first-strike attempt. by the Soviets woUld only result in the destruction of 20 percent of our nuclear force, · leaving 80 percent to retaliate. Thus S.D.I. would discClW'age the Soviets from launching a first strike. Dr. .Zwnbulyadis chose to s:: address opponent's charge tbat e it is not feasible to build a Star (J). Wal's system. He made the ~ counterclaim that we have ''not i (been) presented with a iJ significant question ·of why a: S.D.I. technology will not ..o work:.\ Besides, as Dr. Joseph o claimed, defensive systems :g have been built. He pointed to a the terminal defense system that we developed in the late Continued on page :2 American journalists and is reported to be tile most trusted and recognized of the 254,000 journalists in the United States. He will speak at Memorial Chapel on Friday,. May 8 at 8:00 p.m. on \The News Behind the Headlines.\ The talk is open to the public. Tickets are on sale at the Old Chapel Box Office for one dollar.· Jack Ander~n is the most widely read journalist in America and writes a column that now has a daily readership of 30 million. What this large figure does not reveal, however, is the diversity in opinion of those readers. Born in Long Beach, California and raised in Salt Lake City, Anderson spent the ·World War li years in the Far East. He joined Drew Pearson's staff in 1947 and took over the \Merry Go RoUl1d\ column in 1969. He won a Pulitzer Prize in 1972 for national journalism, was named Parade's Washington Editor in Hl70 and is frequently seen on all the major network televisbn news shows. Anderson is C()-chairman of the Grace Coalition, the nation's most powerful lobbying forum combatting the problem of waste in government spending. In addition, he is a founding father of the 21st Century Institute of American University, which deals with issues which will guide America in to the third millenium. Anderson's most recent ac- complishment was the un- covering of the Iran Contra scandal.

Page 2 CONCORDJENSJS, May '!, l!l87 New SAT Policy Summarized Acade.mic,· Local Response Highlighted , By CHRISTINE HONG' Editor's Note: Thls is partially reprinted frQm the April 9 issue. income, well-to-do students; a very homogeneous student body.\ Moreover, studies that have been conducted by Bates During this .past spring bt\eak Union College placed itself in the ranks of such colleges as Bowdoin and Bates by an- nouncing that it would no ltJnger · require the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) for admission. Instead, submission of the resUlts from this standardized test will be made option!ll for £ applying students. The new· ·E policy, which was formally oo · announced to the academic 3 world b~ President MoiT'iS in g March, will begin July 1, .g thereby affecting admissi01ns of 0: the class of 1992. Dean of Admissions Kenneth Nourse. College support that the SAT iS not a better indicator ·of a student's college performance than a student's high school· performance . or his Achievement Test scores. And, finally, remarked Dean Nourse . concerning the \coaching\ · is the third college to abandon · the standardized test. New:s of Union's decision comes at a time when many colleges across the nation are con- sidering such a move. Reaction · in the Capital District is · similarly positive, as indicated • in local coverage on televisiOn stations and publications. Recently, Metroland, a local newspaper published weekly, ran an article ex:anring the SAT coaching business. In anlayzing that as well as the Jmpact of . SAT's on high school students, it also reported on Union's . abolition ·of the SAT · l\equirement. · Measures are being taken to oversee and analyze Union's new policy that will run for a period of ·roW' years. Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies Terry Weiner will be super .. vising the implementation of . the new poliey. \I think that my role here is to develop a study to give some sort of indication to the impact that the policy will have., Furthlermore, a report is scheduled for 1992 that wjll give the findings for the four year · period based on the first graduating class that will have been admitted under the new admissions policy. · Strategic. Defense Initiative Proves Controversial Draws 300, Local Demonstrators Colltinued from page l 60's but later abandoned. · Responding to the accusation that S.D.l. would be vulnerable· to attack, he said lasar weaponst second, satellites ·can be made maneuverable, and third, STEALTH technology .. can be used along with decoys to hide satellites. \The more missiles that you build, the higher chance is that one will fail.\ Dr. Bowman refused to use . the 15 minutes allotted to him to . argue whether it is possible to develop an S.D.I. system.. This argwnent is immaterial when one considers, as addition, it · destroys the ABM treaty,. its mission is to fUnnel money to · defense contractors and to destroy opposing satellites and gain control of space, and its development in .space can be used to project force to systems on the ground. In response to the proponents' claim that S.D.I. Will make weapons already are. Accor- ding to Bowman, the purpose of Star Wars is to make nuclear weapons useful again. Though the system would be inc&pable of shooting down all of the missiles in a first strike, it might present an effective shield against the smaller number of missiles which would be launched in conjun~lon with a first strike launched by the United States. Dr. Corbett's · argufl;lent against S.DJ. w~s in the context of rejecting the usefulness of nuclear weapons. He said that S.I).I. dettetent system because the .pr.esent form of nuclear weapons is unstable. As he says, \the more missiles that you build, the higher the chance is that one will fail.\ If one should fail, the way to control a ~pontaneous nuclear war is to build up a mutual trust; the type which is destroyed with the development of a system like Star Wars. The Thursday night debate drew the attention of local television stations as there was a small demonstration before the ·debate held in the SUNY . Albany Center quad. The Report of the Task Force on Admissions released a 14 page reprt la~t term deline;ating the recommendations that it m.ade to the College's Admissions Committee, one of them being the chang~ in SAT policy. This initiative~ ac- cording to Dean of Admissions, Kenneth Nourse, was ma,de in consideration of several ptaints. The first was to enhance the mix of students. According to the April 3 issue of The Chronicle, \The SAT cannot escape the cultural bias and handicaps certain groups, in- cluding women and minority students.\ Nourse's comments agreed with· this observ;ation. Said he, \If we solely llased admissions on SAT scores, our college conununity Would be a community of upper middle · courses that many students take to prepare· for the stan- dardized tests, \it has come to a point where we (the admissions office) must ask ourselves, \How do you know if they're (SAT scores) valid or not?\ Nationwide, acceptance of Union's new SAT policy in the academic world has been rather Scientists B·oycott S.D.I. Organization · subdued considering that Union . THE PIZZA PUB SENIORS wants to honor those that have JOBS ONE FREE POPCORN NAME COM P·~A-=--=N::--::-Y~---- ~~COUPON COUPON COUPON COUPON ~.-..~ · Drakes Cakes Now Available 50 . Nationwide, 3,800 faculty members and 3,000 graduate ~tudents in the physical sciences and engineering have signed a boycott pledging not to work on S.D.I. research nor accept any funding from the S.D.I.D. (Strategic Defense Initiative Organization) .. These scientists represent \half or . (! UNION COLLEGE CH·OIR invites you to attend our annual Parents Weekend Concert. May 9th at 8:00 p~m. in the Memorial Chapel. Free of charge. more\ of the faculty in 65 university physics departments and 46 engineering and science departments including 57 percent. of the. fa~ulty of the top 20 U.S. physics departments and 16 Nobel Laureates in physic:s. News Motto of the Week Next year will be different . An additional candidate Stephen Cochrane will be on campus to interview for the Assistant Dean of Students ·position on · Tuesday, May 12 All students are welcome to meet him on Tuesday at 3:30 in Hale House lower Lounge All Campus Shot ~ Date: May 22, 1987 Place: West Wall Time: 3:00 p.m. Be There! This year let's make it a huge success meaning 2,100 people-let's shoot for it!

Page 2 CONCORD!£ NSIS, May '1, 1987 New SAT Policy Summarized Academic, Local Response Highlighted By CHRISTINE HONG Editor's ~ot~: This Is partially reprinted from the April 9 issue. income, well-to-do studeNts; a very homogeneous stud.ent body.\ Moreover, s~ udies that have been conductEd by Bates During this past spring break, Union College placed itself in the ranks of such colleges as Bowdoin and Bates by an- nouncing that it would no longer require the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) for admission. Instead, submission of the results from this standardized test will be made optional for £ applying students. The new ·E policy, which was formally w :mno unced to the academic ~ world b) President Morris in ~ March, will begin July 1, -@ thereby affecting admissions of a: the class of 1992. Dean of Admissiorns Kenneth Nourse. is the third college to abandon the standardized test. News of Union's decision comes at .a time when many colleges across the nation are con- sidering such a move. Reaction in the Capital District is similarly pos~tive, as indic.a~ed in local coverage on telev1s1on stations and publications. Recently, Metreland, a local newspaper published weekly, ran an article examing the SAT coaching business. In anlayzing that as well as the impact of SAT's an high scheol students, it also reported on Union's abolition of the SAT requirement. Measures are being taken to oversee and analyze Union's new policy that will run for a period of four years. Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies Terry Weiner will be super- vising the implementation of the new p<Jlicy. \I think that my role here is to develop a study to give some sort of indication to the impact that the policy will have.\ Furthermore, a report is scheduled for 1992 that will give the findings for the four year period based on the first graduating class that will have been admitted under the new admissions policy. Strategic n~efense Initiative Proves Controver.sial Draws 300, Local Den1onstrators Continued from page 1 SO's but later abandoned. Responding to the accusation that S.D.I. would be vulnerable to attack, he said lasar weapons, second, satellites ~can be made maneuverable, and third, STEALTH technebgv can be used along with decays to hide satellites. \The more missiles that you build, the higher chance is that one will fail.\ Dr. Bowman refused to use the 15 minutes allotted to him t()l argue whether it is possible 1:01 develop an S.D.I. system. This argument is immaterial wheru one considers, as addition, it destroys the ABM treaty, its · mission is to funnel money t01 defense contractors and t01 destroy opposing satellites ami gain control of space, and its development in space can lle used to project force to systems on the ground. In response to the proponE!nts\ claim that S.D.I. will make weapons already are. Accor- ding to Bowman, the purpose of Star Wars is to Inake nuclear wea:po11s 11seful again. Though the system would be incapable of Sltooting down all of the missiles in a first strike, it might present an effective shield against the smaller numbterof missiles which would be lallllched in conjunction with a first strike launched by the Unitetd States. Dr. Corbett's argument again.st S.D.I. was in the context of rejecting the usefulness of nuclear weapons. He said that S.D.L cietterent system because the prEsent form of nuclear weapo11s is unstable. As he says, \the more missiles that you build, the higher the chance is that o·ne will fail.\ If one should fail, the way to control a spontaneous nuclear war is to build tlp a mutual trust; the type which is destroyed with the develilpment of a system like Star Wars. The Thursday night debate drew the attention of local teLevLsion stations as there was a srnall demonstration before the debate held in the SUNY Alba!ly Center quad. The Report of the Task Force on Admissions released a 14 page reprt last term delineating the recommendations that it made to the College's Admissions Committee, one of them being the changP in SAT policy. This initiative, ac- cording to Dean of Admissions, Kenneth Nourse, was made in consideration of several points. The first was to enhance the mix of students. According to the April 3 issue of The Chronicle, \The SAT cannot escape the cultural bias and handicaps certain groups, in- cluding women and minority students.\ Nourse's comments agreed with this observation. Said he, \If we solely based admissions on SAT scores, our college conununity would be a community of upper middle College support tbat the SAT is not a better indicator of a student's college p(!rformance than a student's high school performance ()r his Achievement Test scores. And, finally, remarked ])ean Nourse concerning the \coaching\ courses that many students take to prepare for the stan- dardizedtests, \it has come to a point where we (tile admissions office) must a.sll ourselves, \How do you krloiW if they're (SAT scores) vall<.! or not?\ Nationwide, ace eptance of Union's new SAT p<Olicy in the academic world has been rather subdued considering that Union Scientists Boycott S.D.I. Organization THE PIZZA PUB SENIORS wants to honor those that have JOBS ONE FREE POPCORN NAME COM P,~A-=--=-N:--::-Y ----- ~~COUPON COUPON COUPON COUPON ~...--...' Drakes Cakes Now Available 50 Nation wide, 3,800 faculty members and 3,000 graduate students in the physical sciences and engineering have signed a boycott pledging not to work on S.D.I. research nor accept any funding from the S.D.I.D. (Strategic Defense Initiative Organization). These scientists represent \half or ~~(I; )~t~) UNION CO;LLEGE CHOIR invites you to attend our annual Parents Weekend Concert. May 9th at a.-oo p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. Free of charge. more\ of the faculty in &5 university physics departments and 46 engineering and scienc=e departments including 5o7 percent of the faculty of the top 20 U.S. physics departments and 16 No bel Laureates i.n physics. News Motto of the Week Next year will be different. An additional candidate Stephen Cochrane will be on campus to interview for the Assistant Dean of Students position on Tuesday, May 12 All students are welcome to meet him on Tuesday at 3:30 in Hale House Lower Lounge All Campus Shot ~ Date: May 22, 19 87 Place: West Wall Time: 3:00 p .. m. Be There! This year le1\s make it a huge success meaning 2,100 people---let's shoot for i1! .i

CONCOlllJIENSJS~ May . 7, 1987 D'Andrea Appoints New Assistant V-P of Academics Chooses Elizabeth Grobe By R. REED WHIDDEN . degrees in Educ·ational · · and his Ph.D. in french landed Approxim~tely five weeks • Admcinistration, Higher him the positicm of Director of ago Elizabeth Grobe was of,. · Education, and Music. Grobe the Computer Genter at feredtheposition ofAssim;ant to has been teaching voice over Bryn Mawr. the Vice President of .. the past few years. She also has The man to whom: Grobe is an Academics at Union. Grobe a masters and doctorate from . assistant 4 Vice President of started work this past Monday University of Rochester. · Academics, Tlulrnils D'Andrea and is very excited about the In response to why sbe made said that Warger and Brynmer job. Before coming to Uniont the m()ve, Grobe said that • College are \a wonderful Grohe was Administrator to the · having jUst .finished her doc- · match\. D'Andrea is \sorry to department of Chemistry at torate, she would like to extend . · seehim leave. He (Warger) did University of Rochester. At the her experience in academic . .a good job here and was a good same. time, she was working administration. To Grobe, · friend as welL\ However, toward her Ph.D. At Rochester \academic administration is D'Andrea is lo()king forward to Grobe's responsi·bilities in- · the hear.t of any higher ·. , Gi'4lbe's arrival md assumirtg eluded supervision of the six · education institution.'' She of new position and \is very million dollar budget, four choseto come to Union because · eager to have her here.\ Page 3 .r:: =: E ,en g Q) .D Q) a: £ ~ .r::: 0. million in grants and two she is interested in a small Vice..:President Thomas D'Andrea million in university funds. In liberal arts college, and; she ,_ __ ·-------------------------------- the department of chemistry · admits that she fell in love with there are 22 faculty members • the campus as soon as she saw and 22 additional staff. Out of it. the four candidates invited to The man she replaced was visit the campus, Grobe seemed Thomas Warger. Warger left of . the best choice with the · . his own accord when a position · strongest recommendations ' at Bry_n Mawr College opened up. Registra~r· Fina·lizes Gel- J,ime Pla.ns Union. Makes Way for New Term and qualifications. Warger left Union to move into · Grobe graduated .from a position of new opPQrtunity. • Co.ntinued fr~111. page 1 students to get the col!l'ses they want.\ Nazareth College. She has His knowledge of comput~rs . APA·RTMENTS FOR 1987-1988 3 bed room apartment, 4 bedroom apartm~nt Includes: re~frigerator, stove, washer & dryer, w/w carpet, furniture & parking , CALL 37·0-5498 AFTER, 6:30 ~p.m. Class Format M~dif.ications While the pre-registration . prvcess is established in Silliinan Hall, various depart• · · ments are tryillg to modify the formats of tlleir classes to adjust to ·the Gel-Time schedule. For example, Chairperson of the Modern L811guages Department Helen McDermott i:ndi<:ated how difficult it would be to teach a basic language <:()urse iri such a large time block:. S'he will be using the. Monday, Wednesday, Friday form.at .over the Tuesday, Thuxsd ay format. Are You Bored At Union? Weii.IJon~t Be Any Longer!! * * Beccame a MeRJber Of A Committee For Next 'fear * * The Committee on Committee is accepting applications for til~ fDIIowing committees and subcouncils for the 1987-1988 school year: Academic Affairs Council Academic Compu1ing Subcouncil Admissions Liason Committee Concert Committee Conduct Committee Committee on Committees Campus Operations· Committee Film. Committee Finance Committee Human Subjects Committee Research & Grant Subcouncil Planning & Priorities Commrt1ee Social Committee Student Affairs Council Student Grounds Standing of Students Committee Speakers Forum Athletic Liason Committee Campus Operations Applications are due in Mrs. Marra's office by Friday, May a, 1987 . . . : .-.. . . ::_ .. : :· .:··._ : ~-- '• •\. Get Involved!! ..... \\ .:· .: -.:.\ ,., .. ·· Academ'IC''Affslrs,,,Ftepresentative \ .. , · Junior, Trustee Student Forum President Petitions Will Be Available In The Office Of Student Activities, Third Floor, Qld Chapel, on Friday, May 8, 1987 . PETITIONS WILL BE DUE ON MONDAY, MAY 18, 1987 BY 4;8tl P.M. TO THE OFF1CE OF ACTIVITIES McDermott said that to maintain some consistency, \ .. . we're going totry to have drill sessions in the afternoon, and have two native speak:ers. from France and Germany help out with thl;lt.\ \We 'H find out after a year or so whether there are certain disciplines that are good in one block and others that are not.\ Dwight Wolf Chairperson .of the .English Department James McCord, . though stressing that he can not · speak for everyone, believes that the Gel·'l'ime format is a more appropriate one for teaching literature. He says that after reading lt)() to 200 pages in a novel, \I think we need. time to read and to digest.\ Some do not forsee any traumatic changes in teaching . style, and others have not given the subject any thought yet. Registrar Wolf summed this up l:ly saying, \We'll find out after a year or so whether there are certain disciplines that are good in one block and others that are · not.\ New Card Course Procedure The Registrar explained another difference in the up- coming pre-registration that involves the card course procedUie. Because students were picking up more cards than they were using, the Registrar re-designed the pre- registration fonn so that there is no way students can receive more th~n three cards. When a student picks up a card, the department will stamp the form. Then once the form has been stamped three times, the stu!lent cannot receive any more cards. This will also make it easier for students to get into classe:;. The Registrar said, \Before they'd pick up eight cards and fan through them- and. the department is not aware that they're not being used. So, classes are artificially closed.'' Registrar Wolf does not foresee any problems with the ch~geto Gel-Time and the new eard course procedure. He added that pre-registering for fall is always the easiest time, since only three classes are involved in the process. .. ..Juqi\'lfrom ow rruallut TII.Hilay, oM of th~ moat promi.ing r~•taurGI1 t. encount~ in yean .... a («Ut tUiti cz winner .... Vinod Chhabra Knickerbocker News · .... con:siderably more rkgant and .~atrr~adi~ tlran anything done here before. Pee Churchill Wright S<:h'dy Gazette ..... a sol1d cut about .and lurtd a hungry ~tfr down to tiM> last crouton. Fred LeBrun Times Union MICHELE'S RESTAURANT Fmt> Stt>aks. Seafood ant! Ca;un Spt>c1ltus 901 McClellan St., Schenectady .(cor. Eastern Pkwy) Phone 393-1532 Happy Hour 4-6 p.m. Open 7 days a week Lunch Daily (except Sunday) 11:30 · 3pm Dinner Served .... 5pm • lOpm Mon. - Thursday 5pm · llpm Fri. & Sat. Sunday 4pm · 9pm Mazor ('rf!'dit cards CJCC'epted FULl. DINNERS- from to 14 5

I' I I CONCORIJIENSIS, May 7, 1987 Page 3 D'Andrea Appoints New Assistant~ V-P of Academics Chooses Elizabeth Grobe By R. REED WHffiDEN degrees in Educational Administration, Higher Education, and Music. Grobe : has been teaching voice over the past flew years. She also has a masters and doctorate from · : University of Rochester. In response to why she made · : the m<Jve, Grobe said that . having just finished her doc- ~ torate, she would like to extend her ex:perieHce in academic administration. To Grobe, ''academic administration is the lu'!ad of any higher . education institution.\ She chose to come to Union because and his Ph.D. in french landed him the position of Director of the Computer Center at Bryn Mawr. The man to whom Grobe is an assistant, Vice President of Academics, Thomas D'Andrea said that Warger and Brynmer College are \a wonderful match\. D'Andrea is \sorry to see him leave. He (Warger) did a good job here and was a good friend as well.\ Haw ever, D'Andrea is lao king forward to Grobe's arrival and asswning of new position and \is very eager to have her here.'' .,'\< ~· ..c -~ E C/) (\'! 0 0 (!) .D Q) cc >- ..a .8 0 ..c a. Approximately five weeks ago Elizabeth Grobe was of- fered the position of Assistant to the Vice President of Academics at Union. Grobe started work this past Monday and is very excited about the job. Before coming to Union, Grobe was Administrator t() the department of Chemistry at University of Rochester. At the same time, she was working toward her Ph.D. At Rochester Grobe's responsibilities in- cluded supervision of the six: million dellar budget, four million in grants and two million in university funds. In the department of chemistry there are 22 faculty members and 22 additional staff. Oat of the four candidates invited to visit the campus, Grobe seemed the best choice with the strongest recammendatians and qualifications. she is rnterested in a small Vice~President Thomas D'Andrea liberal arts coUege, and she ;.- ................ ---------------------~---------- admits that she fell in love with the campus as soon as she saw it. The man she replaced was Thomas Warger. Warger left of · his own accord when a position · at Bry_n Mawr College opened up. Warger left Union to move into Re,gist,rar Finalizes Gel-r·ime Plans U:n·ion Makes Way for New Term Grobe graduated from Nazareth College. She has a position of new opportWlity. His knowledge of computers APARTMENTS FOR 1987-1988 3 bedroom apartment, 4 bedroom apartment Includes: refrigerator, stove, washer & dryer, w/w carpet, furniture & parking CALL 370-5498 AFTER 6:30 p.m. Continued from page 1 students to get the courses they want.\ Class Format Modifications While the pre-registration process is established in Silliman Hall, various depart- ments are trying to modify the formats of their classes to adjust to the Gel-Time schedule. For example, Chairperson of the Modern Languages Department Helen McDermott indicated how difficult it would be to teach a basic language course in such a large time block. She will be using the Monday, Wednesday, Friday format over the Tuesday, Thursday format. Are You Bored At Union? Well Do11't Be Any Longer!! * * Become a Member Of A Committee For Next Year * * The Committee on Committee is accepting applications for the following committees and sLJbcouncils for the 1987-1988 school year: Academic Affairs Council Academic Computing Subcouncil Admissions Li a son Committee Concert Committee Conduct Committee Committee on Committees Campus Operations Committee Film. Committee Finance Committee Human Subjects Committee Research & Grant Subcouncil Planning & Priorities Committee Social Committee Student Affairs Counci I Student Grounds Standing of Students Committee Speakers Forum Athletic Liason Committee Campus Operations Applications ar-e due in Mrs. Marra's office by Friday, May 8, 1987 Get Involved!! ELECTIONS :FOR THE FOLLOWING STUDE.NT FORUM POSITIONS will be held on Friday, May 22, 1987 OPENINGS EXIST FO.R THE POSITIONS OF: . Sophomore Representatives (3 positions) Junior. Rep!~sentative · (~ postttons) Senior Repr~sentative (3 postttons) Vice President for Administration Vice President for Finance Academic Affairs Representative Junior Trustee Student Forum President Petitions Will Be Available In The Office Of Student Activities, Third Floor, Qld Chapel, on Friday, May 8, 1987 PETITIONS WILL BE DUE ON MONDAY, MAY 18,1987 l3Y 4:30P.M. AND MUST BE RETURNED TO THE OFFICE OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES McDermott said that to mamtain some consistency, \ .. . we're going to try to have drill sessions in the afternoon, and have two native speakers from France and Germany help out with that.\ \We'll find out after a year or so whether there are certain disciplines that are good in one block and others that are not.\ Dwight Wolf Chairperson of the English Department James McCord, though stressing that he can not speak for everyone, believes that the Gel- Time format is a more appropriate one for teaching literature. He says that after reading 150 to 200 pages in a novel, \I think we need time to read and to digest.\ Some do not forsee any traumatic changes in teaching style, and others have not given the subject any thought yet. Registrar Wolf swnmed this up by saying, \We'll find out after a year or so whether there are certain disciplines that are good in one block and others that are not.\ New Card Course Procedure The Registrar explained another difference in the up- coming pre-registration that involves the card course procedure. Because students were picking up more cards than they were using, the Registrar re-design~d tne pre- registration form so that there is na way students can receive more than three cards. When a student picks up a card, the department will stamp the form. Then once the form has been stamped three times, the student cannot receive any more cards. This will also make it easier for students to get into classes. The Registrar said, \Before they'd piek up eight cards and fan throllgh them- and the department is not aware that they're not being used. So, classes are artificially closed.\ Registrar Wolf does not foresee any problems with the change to Gel-Time and the new card course procEdure. He added that pre-registering for fall is always the easiest time, since only three classes are involved in the proeess. .. .Judging from OIU' rmal lut Tuaday, OM of th~ mo.t promuinR rtstaurtutu ~ru:ount~ in year• .... a /«Ut and a wintur .... Vinod Chhabra Knickerbocker News .... considerably more ekgant and attracti~ than «nytl!trt.j{ done here before . Peg Churchill Wright Sch'dy Gazette ..... a solid cut above and lurN a hungry Nter ®wn to th~ last crouton. Fred LeBrun Times Union MICHELE'S RESTAURANT Fme Steaks. Seafood and CaJun Specilt1es 901 McClellan St .. Schenectady (cor. Eastern Plcwy) Phone 393-1532 Happy Hour 4-6 p.m. Open 7 days a week Lunch Daily (except Sunday) 11:30- 3pm Dinner Served .... 5pm · lOpm Mon. · Thursday 5pm · llpm Fri. & Sat. Sunday 4pm · 9pm M a,1or credit cards accept I'd FULL DIN~ERS­ from 6.95 to 14.9fi

Page 4 CONCORDleNSIS, May 7, 1981 ' - ·Gada Committee's Curriculum Director of Campus Operations Jack Hill. Student Grounds Committee and Physical Plant Discuss Campus Maintenance Issue Members of the Student ..irounds Committee and Dean Manunola met with Jack Hill, Directf~r of CamJJUS Operations, and Ken Relyea, Assistant Director of Campus Operations to establish a link between the Student Grounds Committee· and Physical Plant. The meeting was very successful as both Mr. Hill and Mr. Relyea expressed a sincere interest in seeing that the Student Grounds Committee's suggestions, comments, and constructive . criticisms are acted on in good faith. Specific issues of general maintenance were raised, such as the time required to replace . broken windows, the inadequate or lack of drainage on walk- . ways, the inoperational flagpole light, and the need for more efficient lighting on the tennis courts. All of the committee's concerns were taken seriously and a better understanding of how Physical Plant operates was obtained by the Student Grounds Committee. Mr. Hill and Mr. Relyea expressed their view that Physical Plant has only so many men and so many dollars. Nevertheless, they . indicated that all recom~ · mendations made by the committee wlll be diligently reviewed and acted on ac- cordingly. was also extended the courtesy of reviewing the current status of campus lighting. The in- vitation came from the Safety and Security Department which is a division of Physical Plant. Members of Physical Plant, Safety and Security, and a group of students will walk the campus at nlght to determine where the lighting is in- sufficient. This will hopefully result in an effective plan to make the campus safer at night. The Student Grounds Com· mittee is currently devising a plan of its own to effectively act as a liason between the students and Physical Plant. Ideas such as suggestion boxes and questionnaires pertaining to campus maintenance are being discussed. Any input from students would be greatly ap- preciated. The Student Grounds Com· mittee plans to meet with Dean Mammola and a representative from Physical Plant . in the coming week. Please keep -your suggestions, comments, and constructive criticisms coming. If you are interested in becoming a member of tb.e Student Grounds Committee for the 87 .. tl8 school year, ap- plications are due in Mrs. Marra's office tomorrow, May 8, by 3:30 p.m. Only the News Makes Front Page Join Concordiensis News Proposal Released Tom orr ow Continued from page 1 Gado has been working on a proposal of its own. The minutes of the AAC's April 22 meeting give a general outline of the new proposal's aims. In the fall term of their fresh- man year, students would be required to take Argument 10, which would be worth two thirds of a course and Writing, wnich · would be worth one third of a course. During the winter and spring terms freshmen would take Emergence of the Modern World, worth one course each term. EMW would have alternating common lectures of 500 or so students and recitation sections consisting of ap- . proximately 20 students. Along with EMW would be a writing course, o:r lab, that would meet for an hour weekly~ during which time students could seek help for and discuss their writing with the professor. Grades would be determined by exams on material from the common lecture and the recitation section, combined with the grade received in the writing course. · In their next two years students would be required· t~ assemble a portfolio consisting of at least 20-25 pages worth of graded and revised papers from at least two different courses. This portfolio would be even- tually submitted to a grader for an assessment of their writing progress. The resulting grade would then count as one half a course in determining the student's cumulative grade average. Math and sci.ence requirements will normally be met by any student majoring in either subject. The first required course would be Calculus taught with a physlcs background. The second would be Physics-Chemistry with an. accompanying lab. The third course could be chosen from the . Bialogy, Chemistry, ·Geology, . Physics, or :Sngineering department.s, the only specification being that the course have a laborator requirement. The new curriculum proposal stresses writing, and has more . specific m:ath and s~ience requirements for the non·m~jor than the current Liberal Learning Program.. The original clll'riculum proposal places a great deal of empnasis on the study of western civilization and culture and allows m()I\e choice in filling departmental reqUirements, opting for division requirements rather than specific CQurses requirements, as the neVI proposal does. The new proposal will be officially released tomorrow. Russell Sage Co lege to Vote on Co- Education The Trustees of Russell Sage ~ College are meeting Friday, May 15 to discuss and vote on · the issue of C()-education at the • college. · The reason for con· _.sidering this move are due to projectiQns of the dwindling · pool of conege-bou.nd students in the yeat's to come. Trustee Ahneda C. Dake and President William F. Kabl will annoWtce 'the decision ()f the board Frid~y, May 15 at a press conferenca at 11,00 a.m. Place A Personal? Third Floor Old Chapel 50 Cents FIRST AREA PERFORMANCE OF ANDREW LLOYD WEBBER'S The members of the Student Grounds Committee were in~ vited to assist in the review of current maintenance issues, such as the acquisition and i~plementation of trash receptacles for th,e campus. The Student Grounds Committee ·•\\\--------..:....-...a JUNIOR ECONOMICS MAJORS There will be a meeting of all Juniors majoring in Economics, Industrial Economics,· Managerial Econ?mics or ID (Eco.-XX) on Monday, May 18 at 3:30 p.m. m SS103. The purpose of this meeting is to review the senior thesis project and to assign students to thesis advisers. This meeting should be attended regardless of which term you intend to enroll for Eco. 09 (or ID 09). Is it important that you attend this meeting to express your preference for topic and adviser. Attend even if you are going to be away in the Fall or Winter terms. Those unable to attend should see Prof. P. Prosper, SS21 08, to complete the required form. NOnCE!. QE2 SfANDBY 1b EuROPE~s799! Tmnsatlatitic traveJ.<•n Tc1morrow's Superliner Tuday'\ is ali c~peli­ cnct• of incomparable richness. And' now our standby fare makes ~thngt • • :Europe irn.•sistiblt•. I hi~ 't.tndby fMl' of $7'1'l pt1l- vtdt·' ,,bt;rtn i11 a minimum-grad~ room fmtwn. Thio; limitt•d.pffl·r is ~ubfl'd to withdr.lwal without pm•r Jiutkt' and may not br com- btm•d \Vtth my other.off••r Rate does not illdt..ide taxes or airfa~. Confirmation' will be givel),threc weeks,prior to sailing; a,$100 deposit.is rt.'quin.'<i w.i.tn your requl'st. Fbr d••tail;., Sl't' y<iur tr.wd agl•tit.orwrill' Cunard. Box 2935, Gra1Jcl Central Station, New York, NY I(B63. ; QUI'!EN. ELIZABETH 2 Tom(J.mJWS Superliner Today'\ 1gercuNARP - QE2 rcgis.trrcd in·Great IJru~m --cUNARD Qui'P< E' ,,.,ilmJ2 • Sli\GAI'JORD • VrSJ.O:!'JOKD • SEA GoobEsSl• SE~ GblSoEss·II ·;./' ... ~ .' Co;n·ducted by Allen Mills Satur~ay, May 9, 1987 8 P.M. FULL ORCHESTRA ' ORGAN • CHORUS FEATURED SOLOISTS Deborah Savoy Soprano Rand Reeves Tenor Aaron Williams Treble ·TICKETS: $19LUnder 18 - .$5.~.· Student Rush 3 ._ Groups (20 or more) - $7.50 A V AILAHLE: BOX OFl\ICE (346-6204 AND ALL OUTLETS. Information: 382·1 83 I ,., 'I

'i 'I CONCORDIEN_SIS, May 7, 1987 Page 5 -. Beyond A Term AbfOiid ByM. B. MANNING Not only. did Amy Stakes' tenn abroad in Greece educate ber in Greek Culture; it also led her to many questions. The questions became the basis. for her . sociologyaanthropology thesis· Amy, a Senior Mathematics-sociology major, began her thesis as a study and evaluation of Union's term a·broad program. By in· terviewing students and professors, shehQped to find out what motivates · students to pursue a term a broad, and what theyget.outofit. Thethree most popular reasons students gave for going abroad were to broaden their horiZonS, to learn about a new culture and to get away from Union to experience new thin·g·s. Some students expressed an interest in visiting the countries where their families originated. In her thesis, Amy also discussed the effects of culture shock on students abroad. The concept of affiliation plays an important role in the relationships students create while in a foreign country. That is, ~cause of the anxiety of being in an unfamiliar place, Union students tend to cling together. To many, returning is harder -than leaving because they fa-ce 'social limbo.' Often people who don't share common interests of friends on campus become friends while away. Many students that Amy surveyed felt that their ex- periences .outside their foreign classrooms were more educational than their classes. The day to day existence in the culture forced them to fit in. Once the students return home,. the second half ·of their experience begins. This is when cross learning begins. Students once backin the U.S. can reflect on their experiences and then compare and contrast this country with the one t:hey left. In her thesis, Amy al~ dealt with the readjustment period that occurs upon retW'll. To many, returning is harder than leaving because they have to face a \social limbo.\ Many of the relationships students leave behind seem to have changed. They are anxious to share their experiences, yet family and friends often do not share their enthusiasm. It is then that the students wbo were a·broad together often turn to each other for friendShip. This is especially true for the people who were in Japan together. Also in her thesis; Amy ex- presses a number of suggestions and recom- mendations based on her sur- veys and personal experience. It is suggested that the selection process for the program be altered to include interviews and essays. It would be beneficial to the progJ'am to include the opinions of former participants since they know what is necessary to really V - · n· · v 1enna eJa .· u By JUDY PRICE It all st-arted two years ago, during the spring term of my freshman year. I knew I wanted to go on a term abroad, but I didn't know which one. A friend mentioned the term· abroad in Vienna,. Austria, the following spring. It soWlded great, but I didn't take the whole idea very seriously. After all, I was only a freshman, and it was too soon to start planning for a term abroad, righU For so~ne reason, I pre-registered for Gennan 10, the first of two prerequisites, anyway. (Prerequisites for the term are German 10 and 11 for Track 1 or German 133 for Track 2.) I didn't realize it then, buti was setting myself up for one of the best experiences of my Union career. Needless to say, I went on the term abroad my sophomore year, and I'm glad I did~ At first, it was a scary prospect. I had only taken two terms of German, so I wasn't exactly confident with the language. I soon learned that while I wasn't fluent~ I certainly knew enough German to get by without much trouble. In. fact, it Wa$ easier to learn German there because I 0. > :::E - () >- II) Q) t:: ::3 0 0 g 0 .t:: 0. hadto speak it; and my German was much better by the end of the term. Vienna offered a lot more than just a ~hance to improve my GernJ.an. The city itself has more than its fair Share of culture. In spite of my inltial reluctance, I learned about many different artists and periods, and I actually began to appreciate art enough to enter an art museum voluntarily. (I never wowd have predicted that! ). My appreciation for architecture also grew. Before the term abroad, I wouldn't have known the difference between a split-level ranch house and a Gothic cathedral, but even I couldn't help but notice the ~ing architecture everywhere in Vienna. A short walk around the center of the city allowed a view of several famous buildings, with styles ranging ·from Baroque to Gothic. There was more to Vienna than just its appearance, tho.ugh. There were always more things to do than -time allowed. (It was a little more lively at night than our beloved Schenectady.) There were plays, movies, operas, sporting Vienna Term Abroad '86 events, and concerts in abun- dance, and they were all relatively inexpensive. For the more.outgoing individuals in the crowd, there were bars and clubs, discos, and my personal favorites, Heurigans, which offered homemade wine and a lively Austrian crowd in an outdoor atmosphere. (New friends were easily made in Heurigans.) Vienna was .cer- tainly never boring! Traveling in and around Vienna was very easy. The city has an excellent public tran- . sportation system· with sub- ways, trams, and buses. Two major train stations 'allow convenient travel to Italy, Switzerland, West Germany, .Hungary, and Yugoslavia. As a group we had various short excursions and a ten-day trip to Czechoslovakia and East Germany. This may have been the most Wlforgettable part of the term, as a view of the Eastern . Bloc countries was certainly a once-in-a-lifetime l~arning experience. If you would enjoy a good time and a challenge an-in-one, consider the term abroad in Vienna, spring term 1988. You won't regret it! ---FEATURES Amy Stake in Mal at a, Crete on her term abroad. appreciate the term abroad e:xperience. Reconunendations were made for the preparation of students travels. Invol- ving _ the former parU· cipants in this part of the program should benefit both the students planning to go away, as well as those who have returned. By sharing their experiences, through photos, and advice, former participants will be able to express their enthusiasm to people eager to learn. 1llere were sbl professor~ who have participated in a term abroad that shared their experiences with Amy. Many agreed with the ·students' feelings about the program. Some professors expressed a disappointment with the fact that some students have the attitude their tenn abroad is a term off, a vacation. These stltdents did not appreciate the oppc.rtunity as much as the other did. As written in her thesis, Amy feels that there is more research to be done with regard to Union's Term Abroad Program. For example, the effeets of the suggestions made could be researched in a later thesis. I would recommend that students considering a term abroad should read Amy's thesis. Reading it could only make an experience abroad more educational and en- joyable. There are copies available in the library and in the Terms Abroad Office. The Idol By JEAN BEATY 1 The editorial board of The Idol, Spring 1987 edition, should · be very proud of the literary magazine they have produced. This issue is thoughtfully laid out, and, of course, contains many creative poems, short . stories and illustrations. 'Ibis year's edition of The Idol successfully fulfills its estimable purpose to be a high quality literary magazine in which the student authors of some of the best fiction written on this camp~;ts can proudly display their work, and receive the attention they deserve. The editorial staff, Joy Runyon, Kerrie Ticknor, Jonathan Fink, Katie Boyd and · Joy Cybul have all worked very · bard to get more public at~ · tention for The Idol, and therefore for th~ authors. They have normalized the fonnat of the magazine and have; of C()urse, maintained the same high quality of literature as has ~ P1lblished in former years. · The Idol staff has been cam- .· .paigning to get more money from Student Forum so that . · they .can continue to upgrade · th~ magazine and, again, in- crease public awareness._ The Idol provides a wo11derful · showcase of ,1UanY different styles, ranging from free verse to a nine-stanza · poem, each stanza beirlg a H;aiku. Of course, - there are many different themes represented · also, ranging from love and death to loneliness and reincarnation. · One of the best poems, in my opinion~ is \Pastorale Ultimate\ by Cevin Soling. His style, echo'tng perhaps a ro~antic author, ',i.~ perfect for the eerie theme of escaping time, tllrough death. \TW\fiing Ghosts,\ by Ryan Wellesley is another excellent' .poem, cap- turing the soothing feallng that burning incense brings.~ Emma Brokaw's short story, \Surprise on Tuesday'' is a furrny, realistic tale l'Titten, surp.risingly from a male • s point of view. There is alF.o an intersting illustration depic- ting the transformation of good and evil into love and hate, by Anne Hoban. Jcy Runyon makes wondtrflli use of rhythm in \Lye which reads abnost like a Dr. Sedss children's book, but with a totally different subject; namely, \Wasting away in a barrel of lye.\ In \For Aaron and Amy and You and Me,\ Sarah Bittleman makes great use ()f sensory imagery, making the reader feel the warm night breezes blowing the white curtains, and taste the cool orange jUice. I am not about to tell you that I e<JUally enjoyed every one of the poems and short . stories in this magazine. It is abnost impossible, though, for me as a non·poet to judge the worth of somebody else's creation. I carmot say, as Wordsworth says, that poetry Should only be of situations from everyday life or, as Arnold says, only of great actions, but I do know that some fiction appeals to me which does not ppeal to my best friend. It mmllSI: be a very personal thing, then, to judge whether a poem is good or not. Therefore, I think everyone should pick up ·e oopy of 'lbe Idol in the English Department office and judge for themselves. \

Page 6 ·CONCORDIENSIS, May 7, 1987 FEATURES Wh~re did this foosball table go? A Bit of 'Skellar Nostal.g.ia :ByCATHY \ARKES It's the end of an era-it's the disintegration of a unique culture. Perhaps the end has been near for quite some time now, b11t never was .it quite so evident as today. What else could be so devastating to a 'Skellar rat as the disap- pearance of nearly twenty songs off that classic jukebox that sits next to the doorway of Union's favorite ex-drinking establishment? Cup\ game got its start on those wonderful wooden tables. (Remember the big round one in the center toward the left that used to be the most coveted place to sit?) It seems that carving those same tables went out with the beer. Every time I read the names on the righthand wall I'm reminded of watching those people spend an ·entire evening leaving their mark at Union. Red Wine,\ \Cocaine \Ob What a Night,\ \Pinball Wizard\ a:nd ''The Wanderer\ are all original 'Skellar tunes which have since disappeared from the jukebox. As onemember of the Class of '87 put it, \Ofcourse the change had to happen, but you don't have to be happy with it.\ The 'Skellar atmosphere, un- changed for so many years, has been drastically altered over a relatively shClrt period of time. Granted, the argument also exists, \Times change, people change,\ but it seemed like the 'Skellar was one thing on this campus that had some sort of stability. E-ven though their main business is now comprised of food and soft drink sales, why does the music have to change? Camp Hollywood By STEVE COLE You say, \Camp what?\ That's Camp Hollywood, and smile when you ,say t)lat! You may pave seen them around campus, (those gu,ys in the taupe raincoats, kangaroo skin loafers, and hot pink lingerie draped about their heads). Actually, the group isn't all that apparent presently, but in the future \the club expects t~:~pid growth and recognition. Boasting about fifteen active members, the clubwas created, and is fearlessly led, by Peter Leventbal. With his beard and basebaU cap, Pete cl()sely . . resembles the -famous directora }lrod=trcer Steven Spielbel'g. In fact, many of Leventhal's :groupie f'cll()wershave sworn he .is actually Spielberg in disguise. (Obviously attempting to soak up fcur years of Schenectady's appealing climate, t() break free of the . monotony_ of expensive automobiles, group hot tub parties, and an those terribly sunny beaches). Essentially, the club serves two functions under the general heading of 'making videos' : a · visual highlighter of camp\IS events and a creative mechanism for members. Camp Hollywood has filmed many events such as the International Student Weekend, Freshman Dinner and of coarse the Public Speaking Com- petition. Thes:e events will be edited and placed on display for the entire c·arnpus. On the creativ~ side., club members write andi produce their own material. With the opening ef Carnegie; ~a central viewing spot), thesE videos may claim greater notoriety. · Gossip about an upcoming video was leaked to me by my source. (For her protection she shall be called \M.\). M in- formed me that the new video is a take..:of.f of Budweiser's famous p.arty ani.mal Spud MacKenzie, Instead of a dog, the club satirists envision \Spud.the Party Vegetabte\ as a p(Jtato, ~hereby Spud woill:d attend ma11y campus parties. M also informed me that the club is contemplating using student governmeilt funds for eight of its membe:rs to fly to Idaho in search of the 'right' Potato. Wallowing In my ignorance, I conceded to a:sk M what determin~s the 'right' potato? . She a£ course believes that a . potato's beauty is in its eyes. (Time fol\ a new so11rce!} Shocked at this possible mis- allocation ~f fWlds I suggested they try an inexpensive club trip to the vast potato field of Fox loWJ.ge, Presently, Camp Hollywood has a video camera, monitor and VCR. Its Headquarter~ are housed in Haskin's Lab behind the Arts J~11ilding (left .of Car- negie). Flfr the club's editing purposes, local Channel Six- teen's facilities are temporarily rented. Members believE with their. ow11 easily accessible editing eqllipment they would create a superior product. I remember all the poople who said the 'Skellar was \dead\ when they got rid of those eight precious pitchers for which you had to surrender your ID. Then things got worse: as a result of the drinking age being L\aised to 21, they got rid of - the beer. The disappointment among students was. incredible- -how could they do this to us?? After all, there was never much to do in Schenectady, but there was always the 'Skellar. ·-y;;-~uld wait on u;;·· for twenty minutes to get served, but it didn't seem to matter. No one will argue tllat the \'Skellar tunes\ were what made the place so desirable as a place to dt~ink with your friends With such classics as \American Pie,\ \Only thf' Good Die Young,\ \Heard · . Through the Grapevine,, and so on, it was a rare occasion tc.. walk into the 'Skellar to find it silent. It seems that now a great proportion of fraternities even hf!ve \'Skellar tapes\ since those select son~s never fail to create a great party atmosphere. But what's happened to the original source of those songs? The )Skellar jukebox: now contains recent songs by Van Halen, Genesis, The Bangles and Bon Jovi, to name only a few. Most of us thought our favorite classic, '60's tunes would never leave the 'Skellar, though the beer has been long gone. Exactly which songs have been replaced? Well, the list begins here: Dana and Surdna Foundations Fund Summer Res.earch It was a place to meet on neutral territory, a:n alternative to fraternity and sorority parties, somewhere you could choose what type of cheap beer on tap you wanted to drink. You could wait on line for twenty minutes to get served but it didn't seem to matter. And with your friends (the 'Skellar workers who fought to get a Frida:y or Saturday night shift) behind the counter, the beers werea't often too expensive. The ever popular \Flip the \Joy to the World,\ \Anticipation \Suite: Judy Blue Eyes,\ \The Lion Sleeps Tonight,\ \Temptation Eyes,\ \Mack the Knife,\ \Piano Man,\ \Tak~ It Easy,\ \Dock of the Bay,\ \Fly Like a:n Eagle.'; \stay \Marrakesh' Express,\ ''Windy,\ \Red ATTENTION SENIORS Get psyched for Senior Week!: ByCATIIYBEDNARIK Last summer, the Union College IEF' Fund awarded money to 18 students in order to initiate a pilot summer research .program. The program had such favorable results that the Development Office went after additional outside funds with hopes to expand the program. Both the Dana and the Surdna Foun .. dations foWld such merit in the program thatthey gave funds to provide about thirty additional research awards for this swnmer. Union was in competition with other small liberal arts colleges to obtain Dana fWlding. The purpose of the Dana Foundation is to help small undergraduate institutions attr.act a:nd keep students who otherwise could not afford to attend such colleges. The Dana awards were made specifically to Please Won't You Swim ·A . Lap To Save.Lives? The Leukemia Society is sponsoring the \Leukemia Swim Classic\ open to all Union College students, faculty, personnel and their families. The event will take place at the new Alumni Gym .Swimming Pool on Saturday, May 23, from Noon to 5:00 p.m. For ambitious swimmers who obtain a great deal of sponsors, the following prizes will be awarded. Grand Prize is a color TV, 1st Prize is a Stereo-Radio Cassette (must raise a minimum of $250), 2nd Prize-is a 40x telescope or 11 Omm Teleflash camera (must raise a minimum of $75). In addition, any swimmer who collects over $60 wins a pair of folding binoculars, and those whose raise is over $40 win aT-Shirt. Anyone interested in helpi,ng this worthy cause can pick up a sponsor form at the Equipment Cage at Alumni Gym. For more information, contact the Leukemia Society at 438-3583. students recehring financial aid; 25 were available. The Surdna FoUlldation granted a sum of money fer the research program with the stipulation that their money be used specifically for research in the sciences, three of these grants were made available. The remainder of the research projects· were funded by the IEF. The selection for the awards took place in the winter term. - Of the 60 applicants, 48 received research funding. The awards were distributed among four different divisions, Huma.n.ities, Engiiteering, Social Sciences and Biological Sciences. The distribUtion of awards reflected the number of applicants in each di;vision. The research projects which will be worked on are each unique and wPl all in some way benefit not only the student and the facl,llty .sponsor, but also the college as~ whole. The projects range from studies in astrophysics by Or. Ralph Alpher and Rebecca Koopmann evaluating :the present value of the Hubble Constant, to the study and architectural analysis of the works of Edward T. Potter- with special empha$is on the Nott Memorial to be done by Prof. Carl George and Robert Uz:zo. It is the: hope of the 'College and the organizers 0cf this summer research program that it will attract new students to the college in the future and add merit to Union's already prestigi6us reputation. Since interest in 1he program doubled from the first year to the second, th'El College hopes that this trend wilt .continue and the popularity ()f summer research at Union \Will vastly increase. :·******·******* [iYJJCD[!r® £rn O[i)rprre~~~®rn on ·the Class .O'f 1991 T~Shirt Design for \Orientation 87\ · · ·Theme: 'JA NEW TRADITION'' PRIZE FOR WINNER Bring Ideas to Student Activities c/o Jerri Clark, by May 18th

•, .\ ' CONCQRDIENSIS:. May 7, 1987 Page 7 FEATURES In Search of a Career • • • . ' Talk of .the Town By KIMBERLY HANCOCK It starts innocently enough .. ;the recurring night- mare which seems to haunt me everywhere I go. · \Oh you're GRADUATING next year, hoW nice.\ It could come from a host of different people :friends, relatives,. . the hairdresser, the local grocer.,.almost anyone. The conversation continues .in the same manner each time. \What CAREER are you going to pursue?\ \Career?\ I answer, smiling blankly. \Yes your FUTURE,\ thEW clarify. \Oh future .. .'' (Uh-Oh, I think; here it goes again.) ''I understand, you mean what classes I'm going to take next term.\ ''No.\ They look . at me quizzically (I'm sure they're thinking, 'Is she .for real?') \I meant what you're planning to do with your LIFE.\ I continue to smile, reply, ''I'm not sure., :maybe graduate school,\ and wonder, WHAT AM I GOING TO DO WITH MY . LIFE??? I had 110 idea and I didn't even know Whereto start. So, when I pulled out of my otherwise empty mailbox a Career Development Center flier announcing an introduction to .Financial Careers I thought, 'Here's my chance, I'll listen to alumni speak about investment banking on Wall Street and learn about a CAREER! I entered the Hwnanities building with virtually no knowledge of what fnvestment banking entailed, but this was remedied quickly by a wealth .of information offered by Tom O'Connor '73 and, Kevin O'Shea '82 of Prudential Bache Securities. Both were in- formative, well prepared, dynamic speakers who were . genuinely interested in en- couraging students to consider an i.nvestment banking career. As Toni explained, \investment banking is an exciting career. Union College is not well represented on Wall Street and I'd like to see more Union graduates working there/\' They. continued to Speak thoroughly cover.ing topics ranging from job description and opportunities to proper dress for interviews. Although the discussion centered around an investment banking career , the .information they ()ffered is both important and applicable to any job hunter. . One of the most essential pieces of advice offered was starting the job search early. uvou have to start the search early,\ stressed Tom, ''Figure out what it is you want and how you want to get there.\ Kevin (having just recently gone through this process~ added that · researching prospective employers is extremely im- portant. Reading periodicals such as the Wall Street Journal, company annual reports and articles abotJt the field is the first step in preparing for the job search. The summer was noted as an ideal time to begin this process. The next step is networking, or in common terms, contacting everyone you know and everyone that they know. The process of contacting everyone you know · (even friends of friends of friends) helps to unearth the people Who will be most benefiCial in, your job search. Having seen your name on a request for company an- nual reports or job information spurs recognition in future meetings. Another source of contacts are Union alumni, who (from personal experience) are very enthusiastic about being con .. tacted. Listings by career, employer, as well as by geographic area are available in the Career Development Center. When networking, Tom sqggested writing letters with a resume enclosed imd following up with a telephone call and . personal visit. The visit helps you to get acquainted with the 'right' people and to help you understand \firsthand'' what specific jobs are like. A thank ... you note is a MUST for all helpfl._l). contacts. At this stage, orre can easily · become discoilraged but Kevin advised, \The successful people are the ones who just keep trying.\ So, if you come to a dead end, just backtrack and pursue a dif- ferent route . After making the important contacts and arranging a meeting, Kevin insisted that one must· adher.e to the old cliche, \Dress for Success.\ To enhance this advice, Tom . related a personal example. He arrived at business school clad in a lumber shirt, painter's pants and sneakers, only to be greeted by fellow· students sporting suits and briefcase~. Tom concluded that one must \dress the part.\ (Incidentally, Tom and Kevin were both wearing gray suits, pale shirtS, maroon ties with conservative patterns, dark socks and dark shoes). Suggested attire in .. eludes conservatively styled and colored suits (for men and . ,En VIENNA, AUSTRIA Interested in t.he Spring 1988 term a~roadl or iust the splendor of a vibrant European city? AU welcome to attend a color film sponsored by the German Club: Vienna, Pictures of a Town Date: iuesday, Ma~ 12th Time: 7:00 P.M. Place: HU 014 .. Paticipants from Vienna telni abroad Spring '86 will be in attendance. Food and re1reshments will be served. women), press~d ·shirts in. neutral tones, well kept and polished shoes and· an overall neat and well groomed ap- pearance. Tips for a successful meeting or interview included being prepared and assertive. Kevin related having gone through \grueling interviews\ which were sometimes ''two-on-one.'' Because you are perceived to he at the disadvantage, it is im- portant to be assertive. \Sweep them off their feet before they can pick you apart,\ he con- cluded. Saving done the preliminary research on the company, the questions you ask should be \speeific and deal with current material you have read,\ added Tom. \Prove that you know the company.\ He confided that this strategy makes the interviewee look good in the eyes of the in· terviewer. These tips for job hunting are just a fraction of the in- fortnation I acquired from the discussion on Financial Careers .... Investment Banking on Wall Street. Tom and Kevin did an impressive job of con· veying the many facets of an investment banking career. All who attended wish to extend thanks to both for taking the time to share with us in- formation on this exciting career. Concordiensis recently asked: \What could be · done to make graduation special?\ Photographs & Interviews by Lee Ann Schmidt \Give Free Ph.D's instead of Bachelor•s Degrees, and non- parchment degrees for _vegetarians.\ Mickey Bradley '87, Julie Mountain '87, Dan Gordon '81. \Give me a brick from the new Carnezie Center.\ Jeff Miller '87. \Having the Campus Center open and working.\ Sue Neumann '87. \Beer in the skellar, a rebate on my tuition and President Morris' handing out the diplomas in those cute swimming goggles.\ Ken Lesnik '87. The Sisters of Delta Gamma are proud to announce their 9th Annual Olympics to be held on Friday, May 22 @ 2:00 p.m. to benefit Sight Conservation & Aid to the Blind. Following tradition, this year's Olympic will be held on Fitzhugh Ludlow Day at Library Field. Due to popular demand, the Jello Eating Contest and Musical Chairs will a part of the 7 events in this year's Olympiqs. The remaining 5 other \mystery\ games will be revealed at the Olympics. This year's Olympics will consist of 1 0 teams, with 1 0 members per team (5 men, 5 women). Each team name should be related to a theme song, which will be played when that team wins an event. A contest for 1eam banners will1ake place on Thursday, May 21 at 7:00 p.m. at DG. This year's entry fee will be $5.00 per team member. This entry fee will cover an Olympic T-Shi.rt and refresllments for all participants in the Olympics . For information, call AMY at x4349. There will be a registration form, to be picked up at DG. This form must be completed and returned by 6:00 ~.m. on THURSDAY, MAY i4. THE FIRST TEN FORMS RETURNED WILL BE THIS YEAR'S '1 0 OLYMPIC TEAMS. GET PSYCHED FOR THE BEST OLYMPjCS VET! ·waiting For Godot in the Nott May 19-23 8:00p.m. For , ...... tlonl Cell 6153 ' - Parents Weekend and Graduation Day Call For Reservations at Imperial Motel Downtown Schenectady 927 State Street Phone: 372-4701

. Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May '1, 1987 FEATURES Comments- On Committees Philoso.phy Forum on .. . . Making the Grade By MARJORIE HOFFER That green piece of paper that's advertising committees means something. It's an op. portunity for you to do something-make an impact. A.s part of the student govem- rnent, Union's committees rang·e from Social and Film committees to · Academic .<\.ffairs Council, and Finance ~nrmittee which decides the lUdgets for all the committees. A committee is not just ·nmething to write on a resume, nd students who feel this way :;hould not apply. These organizations are sometimes very time-consuming, and not always very productive. One former member of Conduct Committee says, \Although we only heard a few cases, one of them was a total waste of time. S()metimes the decisions are made before the hearing takes place. Nonetheless, the new rules about Conduct Committee are definitely important. Another thing that I'd like to add, is that all applicants should really consider the fact that if the committee makes a decision t(), say, suspend housing privileges for a student, you'll see that student on campus eventually, and he or she will not be too friendly!' Jennifer Winer, a present member says, \lthink it'sone of the best ways to voice opinions ... this year the group was very good. We heard three cases but everyone should realize that it is a very difficult committee to be on, because you have to live with the students who are brought forth.\ The Student Affairs Council is perhaps one of the most im- portant means of com- munication between the students and the ad- ministration. They are con- cerned with student issues such as housing, campus safety, and social life to name a few. Kevin Irland, a member of this year's committee says, ''The com- mittee needs more student input, and less faculty and administration control.\ Applicants of any committee should also realize the limitations of all organizations. Colleges are run by many groups. The Bo_ard of Trustees is the main governing body, but also voicing opini()ns are the otber membet·s of the college administration, the faculty, and finally the students. On a lighter note, some committees are not heavily controlled by the ad- ministration. For example, Film Committee is rosponsible fvr selecting all the films shown on campus during weekends anc. Tuesday nights. The committee members also collect tickets for all showings and on the plus side, can obtain the advertising posters at the end of the term. Members of Concert Committee have the job It's Not Too Late! Your Pictures Can Still Be in the PARENT'S WEEKEND PHOTO SHOW (May 9th) Call Tom at 374-2228 before Saturday MADATORY MEETING FOR ELECTIONS WED., MAY 13 HUM. 114 By DIANE STUBJUNS of cl:t()()Sing the ,bands that come Student Grounds Committee. to O!lion during the year, and This collliDittee is not on the they \V()rk especially bard in g11een sheet, but will be a very prep!lration for Camp Union. important part of Union. The Beea1lSe ibe committee is in- purpose of this committee is to Last week's commentary on vohi&d with all facets of the better the communication cheatiJlg briefly discussed a coMert performances at Union. between .the 'st.udents and the subject which deserves the the ·ll1embers may be fortunate physical plant. In fact, the · thoughtful consideration of the emrughto actually meet some of physical plant . just informed entire Union community. At a the f~med .performers. members that Union will be a titne when the college is re• IC:Im llancock, as co- walking campus next year. evaluating the worth of a liberal chaiL\person of Social Com- Also, an effort will be made to arts education and a degree mlttee, is instrumental in regulate the beat in the dorms from Union, it makes sen::;e to plaming for Camp Union. She next year. '!his week, some focus on the issue .of academic says, \Lets of people show up female students will walk honesty as welt lf students are for t:he first meeting, but then through the campus at night able to use the work of others to we always wind up with less with a member of the physical fulfill their requirements, it members later on. We are plant, to show certain areas that fosters a negative message that basically .in charge of Camp are poorly lit and therefore, a Union degree can be obtained Uni()n and Winterfest, which we dangerous. Leata J .l'l2f.,o;;o'\\1, · with minimal effort. When I are.trying to build up on every committee rnem~ ~~ ... year spoke with both students and year. We also work in COla.. stated that \fop..; 10t) of the faculty on the issue, I found that junction with other groups on memt-et 0 -uS·.flJ1 be gone next estimates of the severity of campus. For example, if a yo_'3't\~.:~o students should apply. Union's problem varied. comedian comes, we help We need your input and your Students described cheating spo 11 sor that, we also help help.\ as a relatively common activity spo11sor plays that come to the The committees highlighted in all disciplines, with many N()tt.., and Panhellenic Cabaret., are just a few of the many students hearing about in.- The best part is being able to organizations on campus that ci.dents and others actually W()rk with a lot of students. Next make Union what it is. College witnessing. them. Most students yeCJr, th~ Committee on Com- is a time to become invofved in felt that it \wasn't their place\ rnittees is thinking of combining the runnings of an institution. to take any action about the StHia1 Alt~rnatives Corrunittee Do not neglect the opportunities offenses. Some professors felt with Social Committee. This that small schools offer to get . that the problem was minimal, woLild really increase the involved. yet these were often professors b11d~et and there would be a lot If by chance you tl.rew out who were mindful of the of IJOSSibilities for next year.\' your green sheet, you can pick possibility when they designed .PErbap.s the most highly up anotht:r one in Mrs. Marra's their courses. For example, plll>licizecl is the newly created offica, Third Floor, Old Chapel. . their tests required students to ~- ----------------------..., sbo:w all worlt, they a-voided take-horne assignments and Student Committees forl986-87 A.cademic Affairs Council: . This committee works with students, faculty and the administration in monitortng the academic climate ()fthe college; 3positions available. ll<:a<lemic Computing Subcouncil: _ This C()mmittee studies the needs of students with regards to com- ,puting and the needs of the Comp:uter Center to better serve the 'Students ; 3 positions available. . A.dmissions Liason Committee: This committee works with the administration and admissions office in determing the College's policies on student admission; 2 positions available. 'Conduct Committee: Handles all matters concerning Student Conduct on the campus; 1 cl!airman and 7 members. Concert Committee: . Decides which bands will play hr campus wide ev~nts, such as Wrn- te;Fest ~nd Camp Union; 2 chairmen and 3executive members. A..thletic Liason Committee. made separate tests and quizzes for makepup work. other professors felt that they were frustrated in their efforts to prevent dishonesty due to a finite nwnber of subjects for preceptorial essays, and lh:nited classroom space for examinations. Among most professors there was a feeling that more rigid enforcement of penalties would help deter students from cheating. Oii Page 43 of the Union StUdent Handbook there is a section on Academic Conduct and Regulations (situated between sections on sexual harassment and housing regUlations.) It says, \As a student at Unian Cqllege, I hereby dedicate myself to living and working as .part of the Union community, and to support and uphold the following principles: Academic openess th the pursuit of knowledge,. Academic ·honesty, Awarenesss of and respect for other's rights, and Dignity and Pride in myself, my actions, andtheCQllege.\ Whilemany of Union's faculty and students may want to uphold these principles,J'll Wl:lger that few of them are familiar with that passage. People in the Academic · Affairs Office weren't even sure what the academic honesty policy was- but they did know that there was one which cotdd, be read in the Handbook. If indeed, academic honesty is central to the concept of a Union education, then I think there ought to be a :ni()re serious effort to promote it. There is no reason for the impetus for academic honesty to come f()rm one branch of Union's com .. muntiy. If some Union students are unwilling to abide by the college's standards, I think their actions should be im- portant to everyone. The faculty cannot accept the responsibility of preventing each student from cheating, the students must accept some of the respon- sibility themselves. I think that both faculty and students need to know that they have the support of the school ad- ministration behind them on this issue. The college's message about academic honesty needs to be a strong one-one that will work to destroy the current attitude of tolerance, resignation, and apathy. I hope that in the future Union will be able to improve the. situation .by working together on developing a new campus attitude. Advises the Director of Athletics on all matters of concern to the athletic program, including intercollegiate athletic .programs, club spo;ts, intramural and recreational prograf!l~· wome~ s programs, and .[nstru-ction in athletic skills and sports; 2 pos1t10ns available. C()mmittee on Committees: · M()nito;s events and actions ·Of· all college committees and clubs, ,performs the selection process f()r all student committees; 1 position available. Film C~mmittee: Ptam and implements college film program during the school year; 2 chairmen and 3 executive members. Fi:nance Committee: Responsible for distributing all .student activities funds to college clubs a ad committees; 3 positions avail~ble. Euman Subjects Committee: . _ . . Responsible for determining whether research mvolvmg students as stlbjeds be approved; 1 position available. On Friday, May 8th there will be a presentation entitled \Kenya-living and Wo.rking Abroad\ given by Ms. Susan EnseL Ensef is a 1983 Union alumnus who entered the Peace Corps shortly after graduation. Her assignment sent her to Kenya where she worked as a secondary school teacher for three. years. She had agreed to come and share with, 1he coHege her experience in the \beautiful country of Kenya\. The presentation will include slides and a question and answer period and will be ~eld in Milano Lounge at 12:30 p.m. Hope to se~ you there! I Resear<:ll and Grant Committee: Reviews all IEF applications and decides who will receive the grants; 1 p()Sition available. Flalllling and Priorities Conunittee: . . . . . . . . . L<>ng-range planning of the C()llege mvolvmg fmancml unplicat10ns, instltutionalchanges and all non-academic issues; 3 positions available. Social Committee: ' P1aJls and implements many of the activities sponsored for the-student llody; 2 chairman and 3 e.xecutivemembers. . SociaJAlternatives Comnuttee: . A.cts as an offshoot of the social cormnittee in providing tmother source <>f s()cial activity for the campus; 1 chairman and 4 executive members. Speakers Board: Resp.onsible for selecting and con~racting sp~akers of all types. ~or 1 (!ampus entertanment and information; 2 cllall'men and 3 exeet,ltlve members, SttLdentAffairs Council: . Reviews and recommends policies to Student Housing, Dining Serv1ce, the College Center, Health Services, the Counseling Services,. Career Counseling and Placement, Stu den~ . Condu~t, Fraternities. and S()rorities, and the Student Forum; 3 positions available. Standing ofStudents Committee: Reviews the records of students.earning less than a satisfactory term average. This committee also deals with stu~ent pe~tio!ls for read- mission, graduation requirements,and academtc standmg m general; 3 positions available. Stude11t Grounds Committee: Stud~nt committee to deal witll concerns relating to residence halls, campiiS buildings, and the campliS grounds; 4.positions available. Campus Operations: .. C()li}mittee consisting of two student gr?ll!lds ~epresentativ~s and representatives from the faculty, s~ff, a~mstrabon and the Dll'ector ()f <:amp us Operations; representattves w1ll be cbosen from the Student Grounds Committee. rr~f:fio and Pet Court: 'fills. committee allows students to contest, in front of peers, traffic and :!)et violations; 3 ~ositions available. UNIQ,N COLLEGE ECONO:MICS FACULTY RESEARCH WORKSHOP C . A K Lov·. ell Univeristy of North .carolina • • • at Chapel Hll~ . \Multilateral Productivity Comparisons When Some Outpl:Jt$ Are U nct.esirabl~: A Non Parametric Approach\ ·Friday, May8-3:30-Social Sciences Room 100 Refre~hments Follow in the Faculty Lounge PARENT'S WEEKEND ALUMNI CAREER. PANEL Recent graduates will discuss how their experience at Union helped prepare them for their present career. Panelists include: · Gigi Carroll '83-. School Psycl:lologist Julie Isgro '84-Lawyer . . John Johnson '84-unit Sale Manager with Nestle Randi Redmond '84---New Product Development of Jet Engines with G.E. · · · · Adam Starke '84--TV Actor in NYS seen in \Search f.or Tomorrow\ \I'll Take Manhattan\ etc. Saturday, 1:30·2:30 p.m. HU 115 ,

,. l' •. i -.~ 1 11 ... ,. ' '! 1!', ! • \\~ F ~ '• I . Page 9 · --C.ONCORDJE~SIS., .·May 7, ·1'9;87 .. SCIE.NCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY ' ', U:nion Students Attend ·National Conference ·On Undergraduate Research By LOU SCHICK Kelley- Economics: and Steve Alves- Social Science. Professors Richard Magahiz and Lazslo Baksay astounded listeners with details of High Energy .Physics research in· volving students at Union in collaooration with international research laboratories at CERN, Brookhaven, and Berkeley. The research encompasses the forefronts of modern physics and involves Nobel Laureates. Union students led the way in three days of session as scholarly activity evolved into core personal interactions. Exchange. of academic ideas during the· day became fun and · games at night. Most of the participants made many new friends and enjoyed the new people. Last week nearly five hun- dred of the best_ and brightest undergraduates from Tex:as, Minnesota, California, New York and everywhere in· between congregated ia Asheville\ North Carolina to present their senior theses and other research. The con- ference was a significant success, showing the un- dergraduates · can do meaningful research which contributes to their fie d·. An astounding number of high quality p~pers on diverse topics inc 1 u·d ln g a st r o·phy sics, psychology and literature, were presented with Pl'Ofessionalism. Union students led the way with five awards from fourteen student presentations. (The largest contingent from a small college participating.) Awards were earned by: David Greenlaw· Physics, Naresh Gunaratnam- Biology, Dawn Tamarkin- Biology, Cindy Curtis- Mathematics, Ira Suck- man and Kevin Macdonald- Economics. Also participating we~e Barth Bracy, Tom Walsh and Lou Schick- Physics, Claudia Dudack and Laurie Letarte· Chemistry, 'Liz Karazi:m· Biology, Brian Travel arrangements were made by the hero of the ex- pedition, 'Barth Bracy, a sophomore phySics major. He acquired money from IEF (Internal Education Fund) and Vice President D'Andrea's. discretionary fund. Sup- plemental funds were provided by participating departments. In general, it was a wonderful experience and great public relations for Union. Let's do it again next year. Union's Research Entourage ln North Carolina Showers from A Cear Sky ByLASZLOSZABADOS When watching the sky on a clear night, the heavens appear to be very calm at first .glance. A persistent observer, however, can reveal some minor but often spectacular changes within one hour or so. In addition to the ordinary pattern of the stars outlining the familiar con· stellations, some fact moving bright objects can suddenly appear at a point in the sky then disappear in some othel' direction. This transient phenomenon is known as a meteor (or popularly as a shooting. star). · There are a lot of small pieces of matter in space between the planets (so called in· terplanetary space). The diameter of these meteoroid \stones\ is ranging from micron size up to \several meters across. These small celestial bodies are orbiting the Sun on a highly elliptical orbit. When a meteoroid orbit in· tersects the annual path of the Earth around the Sun, it can enter the Earth's atmosphere with a very high' speed. Then fric;tion slows it down and heats it up iintii an or most of it is vaporized. In tbat instant we are Witne~ing a shooting star. Clearly, this bas nothing to do with a star, the meteoroid is a small, cool, and solid body, and all this phenomenon takes place in the Earth's upper at- mosphere, at a height of about 100 km. The brightest meteors can be more luminDUS than the full moon. These very bright events al,'e the fireballs. Due to the large speed of the meteors relative to the Earth (more than lOkm-sec.) there is achance for the larger particles not to evaporate fully while crossing the atmosphere of our planet. The fragment can reach the surface of the Earth, and it is then called a metedrite. . On a clear night a naked-eye observer may see a few meteor events an hour. These are the sporadic meteors. But meteors often occur in showers, when shooting stars are seen ata frequency far above average. Meteor showers are periodic; they recur at the same time each year.. The enhanced meteor activity occurs when the · Earth intersects the orbit .of some inactive comet. The original icy-rocky stuff of the comet has already fallen into small pieces, ice has evaporated, and tiny. remnants of the former comet have been distributed .along its orbit. It takes several days 'While the Earth crosses this stream of debris. Meteorites are not usually found after meteor showers, so presumably the size of the individual meteoroids that cause the shower is very small. The best known meteor shower c~:~n be observed in mid- August. These are the Perseids, because their radiant (the point in the sky the trajectories of the meteors seem to ~manate from) is in the constellation of Per- seus. In the first week of May, however, we can watch another meteor shower,. known as Eta Aquarids. The estimated -frequency is about . twenty meteor _events per hour. The phenomenon can best be olr served after mtdnight. This is because the small cosmic bodles hit the Earth with a larger relative speed before sunrise, and because the moon is below the hori2on at that time these days. . If you are not suffering from insomnia, you ate not an early bird, or Y9U miss the meeting with the Eta Aquarids meteor shower fOr some other reason, do not be disappointed. Instead, when travelling to Arizona, you can catch a sigbt of the amazing Barringer meteorite crater. This crater is a result of an impact that • happened 25,000 years ago. Its , diameter is larger than one kilometer, so its area Js comparable to that of the Union campus. \ Sigma Phi and the Dean of Students Office Present: A Panel Discussion on · , Drug Testing in the Workplace . . to be held , Wednesday, May 13th at Old Chape;l - 8:00 p.m. Help us di$cuss this .very important issue with our panel of expert!} Dr. August Lum-ia • Prof. of Psychology from Skidmore con. · Paul MagarU~ • frorn the 'N.Y. Chamber of com~erc:and Industry · ALL ·Students an.d Faculty are 1nV1ted!! Physics Colloquium Dr. H. Hart of General Electric's Research and Development Center in Schenectady wJ11 ~eak on: .:'Imaging of the human body by means of Nuclear Magnetic Resonance\ Today, Thursday, May 7 in Steinmetz 106 (Rojanski Room) Refreshments 4:30 p.m. Lecture 4:45 p.111. LUIGI'S RESTAURANT * 1125 BARRETf ST. SCHENECTADY, NY OPEN NOON-10:00 P.M. DAILY CLOSED TUESDAY * FINE ITALIAN.AMERICAN DINING OVER 30 YEARS Telephone 382~5429 SERVICING • REPAIR OvtRHAULING MERCEDES BENZ e BMW AUDI•V.W. • HONDA MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE MICHAEL W. CVOYLO (518)377~2268 (241HR. TOWING· 374·1067) 349 ANTHONY STREET SCHENECTADY, NY 12308

Pag(! 10 CONCORDIENSIS., May 7, 1!181 <llllltfllfbirn.sis .....-..--~- FowrdNi at t in10n Coll~t 18'?:' ---·--····-·- Parents: Welcome to the Tour . Curious to find out what life at Union College is all about. . Well this is the right ·weekend' to do it. For its 37th Annual Parents' Weekend the College Community has put together a weekend packed with informative and enjoyable events. It's the ' perfect opportunity to share a big part of your sons' and daughters' lives. Welcome to the grand tour. The highlights of Uris weekend encompass a wide range of areas. An absolute rnust is the tr~clitional tour around the campus. With all the improvements g01ng on around here there are a lot of new sights to investigate, incl~ding the renovated Alumni Gym. Assuming our usual April showers (which have persistently continued into May) hold off for the weekend you should take full advantage of the campus during one of the mostbeautiful times of the year. Other . attractions . include the many academic seminars open houses which will give you a taste of the educational atmosphere at the College. On the lighter side we have a series of student run productions which display the artistiC abilities of the students here. This aspect of our involvement at the College is an equally educating and higbly rewarding part of our lives. There's too much going on to give it full justice here. Take a look at the Parents' Weekend insert in this issue of Con- cordiensis and go from there. One thing not mentioned in the schedule you really should experience is a \Chopper Run\ to stock up those refrigerators. Well, welcome to Union College, and enjoy your weekend here. Educated Conversation In John Henry Cardinal Newman's essay \The Idea of a University,\ he concludes that a college is essentially \a con- versation between educated people.\ It is a society where both professors and students learn as a result of their interaction. Union, as a small college with a liberal ~rts tradition in a modern approach, is in an ideal position to become such a society. The College has taken steps to enhance that con- versation, but even more advancements should follow. The decision to drop the SAT requirement is probably the most well-known academic policy change. By doing so, and by requiring an academic project instead, Union is attracting a student more dedicated to learning than to establishing a high G PA. That is a move that many faculty applaud, having desired such a statement and change for years. It can only add to the prestige of the College, drawing not only better students but strong faculty as well. The upcoming decisions on the general education curriculum are, as noted in previous editoi'ials, of utmost importance to the schools; the faculty's choice will shape not only what is taught here but, again, what sort Qf students and professors will choose to come to Union in the future. Union needs an innovative plan to help bring the best to the College, although any change of the outmoded Liberal Learning plan should be animprovement. However, there are still areas for improvement. Newman ri'cognized that although the professors and students should learn from each other, the professors would have to be the leaders in the con\'ersa tion, Therefore, both th~ te(lching proficiency and academic ability of the professor is vital to the level of conversation. Union could move to measures common at other schools that would benefit its faculty and thereby its students. Last week's editorial considered revising or abolishing the tenure system in an effort to keep classroom teaching a priority. The idea was to instead have a system that allowed professors continual employment, as with tenure, as long as evaluations stayed above a certain level. In the current system, there are simply not enough real measures to motivate a tenured teacher who is for whatever reason letting his teaching decline. Those teachers are very few, but in a small college, more noticeable and inavoidable. Tenure, however, is necessary to encourage free speech often demanded in research and teaching. What is needed in a system that provides incentive for good teaching while improving poor teaching. First, Union could redefine its standards for merit pay. There should be graduations of pay increases, based on evaluations of scholarship ;md teaching that dmote increasing levels of ex- cellenc(', Secondly, Union needs a Dean of faculty, a person to know each professor and at least informally evaluate the per- formance of each member, in order to recommend actions. Finally, the College need:S to be able to remedy any performance it finds lacking. It cannot simply cast out an ailing faculty member; instead,the College could grant a leave with pay for ::;Ludy either to update a professor's knowledge or to satisfy a desire to publish rather than to teach. Union has moved for long•range changes that will improve its academic standing; more changes are still under consideration about curriculum and are inevitable in admissions. Newman, however, in the belief that professors should lead, would hope for changes to benefit the faculty as welL COMMENTARIES Fall Term Preregistration Procedures Preregistration materials (the \Pregistration Course Request · Form\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar''s office beginning Friday, May 15. Students should review the ~ourse listing, consult with their advisers and select the courses they wish. lt would be advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. To preregister, every student will be required to have their adviser sign their preregistration form. If their adviser is unavailable, a student should consult with the head of their adviser's department. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred . to as \list\ courses and are indicated on the coW'se listing by an asterisk. lists for these · courses will be posted by the departments on Wednesday, May 20. Students ~;~houl<J sign these li~s to indicate an interest and then should return ot the - ~ departments on Friday, May 22 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admitted to a list course m11st get a reservation card from tbe department. In order to pickup a card you mum have your preregistration form with you to .be stamped by the department . You are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. No one will be allowed to preregister for a \list\ course without such a card. These are the only courses that require such cards. Preregistration f()r an in· dependent study or research requires completion of a form which is available in the Registrar's office. It must be signe~ by the supervising faculty member and his-her chairperson . The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label affixed to the '''Preregistration Course Request Form\. Students may not preregister prior to their ~ssigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday-, May 29. Additional coW'se chang·es may next be made during the Drop-Add period at the start of the fall term. students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at ·the time printed on their \Preregistration Course ~eq4est Form\ (this form, filled out and signed by their adviser) must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire are not closed:. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their preregistration form. Then, they should see a staff member who will preregister th€111. . Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except graduating seniors, mllst give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students~ Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the fall term. CARD COURSES New Procedures.· . . Beginning with this preregistration, each student will be allowed to pjck up the cards for no ~ore than three (3) \li~t\ courses. After signing the lists for those courses in which they are. mte~este~, stu?en~s ~~~~ need to bri~g their preregistrat~on form (Which they pick up at the Re~1strar s Ofhce m S1lhma~ Hall) w1th them when they return to the departme.nts to pick up the1r cards. These forms w111 be stamped by the departments when a card is issued. Once the form has been stamped three times. no additional·cards will be ·issued to a student. Students should be aware that should they ·lose their preregistration form, the replacement form that they will be issued will be pr:estamped and thus not usable for securing course cards. DRAMA, ELEGANCE, O:RATORY Richard Blatchford Oratorical Contest FINALS Friday, May 8, 1987 Old Chapel Dining Hall-7:00 p.m. Letters to the Editor and Commentcari.es do not necessarily re.flect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, May 7, 198'! Qrnnrnrbtrnsis -------- Foundrd al t:mon ('ollet:~ /87;' Parents: Welcome to the Tour Curious to find out what life at Union College is all about. . Well this is the right weekend to do it. For its 37th Annual Parents' Weekend the College Community has put together a weekend packed with informative and enjoyable events. It's the perfect opportunity to share a big part of your sons' and daughters' lives. Welcome to the grand tour. The highlights of this weekend encompass a wide rangP of areas. An absolute must is thP traditional tour around the campus. With all the improvements gomg on around here there are a lot of new sights to investigate. mcluding thl' n:no\·atect Alumni Gym. Assuming our usu:·tl April showers 1 which have pt•rsistently continued into May J hold off for tht~ weekend you should take full advantage of the campus during one of the most beautiful times of the year. Other attractions include the many academic seminars open houses wh1ch w11l g1ve you a taste of the educational atmosphere at the College. On the lighter side we have a series of student run productions which display the artistic abilities of the students hf're. This aspect of our involvement at the College is an equally educating and highly rewarding part of our lives. There's too much going on to give it full justice here. Take a look at the Parents' Weekend insert in this issue of Con- cordiensis and go from there. One thing not mentioned in the schedule you really should experience is a \Chopper Run\ to stock up those refrigerators. Well, welcome to Union College, and enjoy your weekend here. Educated Conversation In John Henry Cardinal Newman's essay \The Idea of a University,\ he concludes that a college is essentially \a con- versation between educated people.\ It is a society where both professors and students learn as a result of their interaction. Union, as a small college with a liberal arts tradition in a modern approach, is in an ideal position to become such a society. The College has taken steps to enhance that con- versation, but even more advancements should follow. The decision to drop the SAT requirement is probably the most well-known academic policy change. By doing so, and by requiring an academic project instead, Union is attracting a student more dedicated to learning than to establishing a high GPA. That is a move that many faculty applaud, having desired such a statement and change for years. It can only add to the prestige of the College, drawing not only better students but strong faculty as well. The upcoming decisions on the general education curriculum are, as noted in previous editorials, of utmost importance to the schools; the faculty's choice will shape not only what is taught here but, again, what sort l)f students and professors will choose to come to Union in the future. Union needs an innovative plan to help bring the best to the College, although any change of the outmoded Liberal I .earning plan should be an improvement. However. there are still areas for improvement. Newman rPcognized that although the professors and students should learn from each other. the professors would have to be the ll'aders in the conversation. Therefore, both the teaehing proficiency and academic ability of the professor is vital to the levrl of conversation. Union could move to measures common at other schools that would benefit its faculty and thereby its students. Last week's editorial considered revising or abolishing the tenure system in an effort to keep classroom teaching a priority. The idea was to instead have a system that allowed professors continual employment. as with tenure, as long as evaluations stayed above a certain level. In the current system, there are simply not enough real measures to motivate a tenured teacher who is for whatever reason letting his teaching decline. Those kachPrs an• very few, but in a small college, more noticeable and in;wmdable. Tenure, however, is n~cessary to encourage frel' speech often demanded in research and teaching. What is nePdPd m a system that provides incentive for good teaching while improving poor teaching. First. Union coulrl rPdefinP its standards for merit pay. There sh11Uld lw graduations of pay incn•ast>s, based on !'Valuations of :-.chularship and tl'aching that dPnote mcreasing lPvels of f'X- cellPrwt•. Se1·ondl). Union needs a Dean of faculty. a person to knuw each professor and at least tnformally evaluate the per- formance of each member, in order to recommend actions. Finally. the College needs to be able to remedy any performance tt finds lacking. It cannot simply cast out an ailing faculty member; instead,the College coulrt grant a !caw with pay for study either to update a professor's knowledg£> or to satisfy a (ksire to publish rather than to teaeh Unwn has moved for long-range changes that will improve its acadt·•nH· standing; more ch mges are still undrr consideration about curriculum and arc inevitable in admissions. Newman, hmn•ver, m the belief that professors should lead. would hope fr1r changes to benefit the faculty as well. !PJ?lJRJENJ!~ r) WYJEJEJJKJEN}])) l)f&71 COMMENTARIES Fall Term Preregistration Procedures Preregistration materials (the \Pregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's office beginning Friday, May 15. Students should review the j:!ourse listing, consult with their advisers and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. To preregister, every student will be required to have their adviser s1gn their preregistration form. If their adviser is unavailable, a student should consult with the head of their adviser's department. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on Wednesday, May 20. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then should return ot the departments on Friday, May 22 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. In order to pick up a card you must have yeur preregistration form with you to be stamped by the department. You are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. No one will be allowed to preregister for a \list\ course without such a card. These are the only courses that require such cards. Preregistration for an in- dependent study or research requires completion of a form which is available in the Registrar's office. It must be signed by the supervising faculty member and his-her chairperson. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label affixed to the \Preregistration Course Request Form\. Students may not preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday, May 29. Additional co1:1rse changes may next be made during the Drep-Add period at the start of the fall tenn. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time pdnted on their \Preregistration Course ~equest Form\ (this form, ftlled out and signed by thdr adviser) must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their preregistration form. Then, th.ey should see a staff member who will preregister them. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except graduating seniors, must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the fall term. CARD COURSES New Procedures Beginning with this preregistration, each student will be allowed to pick up the cards for no ~ore than three (3) \li~t\ courses. After signing the lists for those courses in which they are mterested, students w1ll need to bring their preregistration form (which they pick up at the Registrar's Office in Silliman Hall) with them when they return to the departments to pick up their cards. These forms will be stamped by the departments when a card is issued. Once the form has been stamped three times. no additional cards will be issued to a student. Students should be aware that should they lose their preregistration form the replacement form that they will be issued will be prestamped and thus not usabl'e for securing course cards. DRAMA, ELEGANCE, ORATORY Richard Blatchford Oratorical Contest FINALS Friday, May 8, 1987 Old Chapel Dining Hall-7:00 p.m. Parents: _Keep up to date with the latest events at Union - Subscribe to Concordiensis: $24 a year Write to: Concordiensis Box 2577 Union College Schenectady, NY 12308 Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Editors-in Chief News Editor Associate News Editors Features EditCJrs Commentary Pa~e Editors birnsis David Gulliver. Lee Ann Schmidt Christine Hong Fiona Shukri, R. Reed Whidden Marjorie Hoffer, Cathy Markes Stuart Sands Lori Leon, Gary Steinbaum Arts Editors Nancy Grundman; Julie Steinberg Associate Arts Editors Jim MacLaughlin. Celia Mann campus Page Editors Jennifer Ash, Lisa Marzilli Sports Editor Chris Hinekley Associate Sports Editor Andrew Miller Science Editors John Bergeron~ Adam Helfand Advertising Editors Jacki Bell, Lisa Ordower Assistant Advertising Editors Jessica Adelson, Kathie Green, ..· . . . .. Lori Kaplan Business Managers Beth Goodsmith, l'iobln JaoobSun · Photo Editor Alan Klapper Subscription Editors John Bergeron, Robert McGowan Honorary Faculty Advisor C. William Huntley STAFF: Cathy Bednarik, Mickey Bradley. Marc Bulson, Lisa Brown, Mark Burton. Leela Chowdhury, Lauren Feuerman, llysse Feingold, Carol Haas. David Jones, Fred Kirschenheiter, Ezra Sherman, Rebecca Smith, Beth Tumey, Mark Zim~ merman. CONCORDIENSlS is published every 'l'hursday by the student'\ body of Union Colleg~ Sellenreta(Jy, New. ¥ork 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publication, Inc., Box 383, Sidney, New York 13838(6tl7)5634JIW8. Subscription rate: $24per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Coneordiensis subscribes to the IntercGllegiate Press (lP}. Office Telephone (518)37~155 . :··i·. ;(;,. ;.~;·:y':~;)~;:: \)~ (\ .... /,:.;· /.;.';,:,; ,·. ··••·· , .. ,, ¥•:•.•:•'b:,;<iP\eL::\~';)@X, '';:r;,;.

CONCORDIENSIS, May 7, 1987 Page l1 EL,ECTION STATEMENTS. Seniors! ·Jay M.Grossman As an active member of the . Union comnnmity, my four :. years here. have been both in- · · teresting and rewarding. I have been involved in many different · aspects of campus life and . woUld like to continue my in- volvement as an Alumni Council Representative. The · · input of the class of 1987 .is Micliael Reed Don't forget to vote Tuesday, ,May 12th for yo~r two {2) Alumni Council Representatives! - Elections wJH be held on Schaffer Library Plaza 9:00 a.m.-4:00p.m .. The rain location will be under the Schaffer l-ibrary colannades. . B'eing the class represen- tative to the Alumni Council i~ one way I hope to continue contributing to ·Union College. Through work in helping to organize Homecoming Events, I hope to help strengthen the • bonds between alumni and Union that are crucial to a small college like ours. . important and I would like to . bring our views back to the • adnlinistration. The Alumni Council · represenl;.ative serves the Class of 1987 by expressing its ideas to the Union College community. For most of. the past two years . as editor in chief of Con- cord.I(msl!l that ts e:lUlctly wbat I have b.eea doing! While covering; a wide range of campus topics including class • siZe, tuition, fraternity and . sorority issues, and cUl'i-iculwn · Scott Newntan matters, I have fostered ideas Hello Class of '87 - and di\s~ussion by gaining 8 . Believe it or not, we've all consensu:s of the opinions of the ·. made it! (provided nothing goes · student oody and then using the wrong in the next few weeks). vehicle o.f the campus. And yes, it's even time to-choose newspaper to act on these ideas. ' your Alumni Representative. I hope tllat in some ways that · Forthoseof you who don't know this· has made a better· Union me, myname.isScott Newman. College for students, faculty, · As an active member of our and adndnistrators. · · college community for the .past As ~1 umni Council- four years, I have developed representative, I'd like to . many close friendships and continlie to do many of these have learned a great deal from . tbings ellen .after graduation. I · my eXperiences. My activities believe tbat I have an extensive have included being an working Kn()Wledge of the way Orientation Advisor, a writer in which. the College operates for the Lampoon, and in- and ·g()V\erns itself and can . volvement with the remain in G()ntact with many . . Homecoming Committee and members of the administration Big Brothers-Big Sisters. and facmty to force positive Presently, I am holding the changes fat\· Union. I have a Office of Vice President of my sincer-e -desire to help Union fraternity. My commitment to College move forward. the College has enabled me to An alumni representative should be able to represent the class of '87 as well as un- derstand the views of future Union students. I think I can do this. Rachel Siegel I am running for the Alwnni Council representative for the Class of 1987. June 14 is just six weeks away and we're just six weeks away from becoming Union's newest ij}umni. Union must continue to strivt;l folf: · excellence. One . way to improve the program at Union is ·to have open channels of communication between alumni and the college administration. As:,an alumni representative, I will. actively follow Union issues and help to make suggestions and improvements where necessary. I will be available for input from other alumni who develop many bonds to both N . an.if\y·.Grun·dman. people and the campus itself. '-' These are ties that I will never forget, and if given the op-- Although you might have heard otherwise, I do not want your money. What I do want is to speak and act on behalf of our class to the Alumni Council. The Council functions as the governing board of Alumni by taking part in the decisions that affect the College and by financing Homecoming, ReUnion, and part of Graduation. I have been a very active member of the college com- munity during my four years here through my work as assistant editor of the Garnet, co-chair of FitzHugh Ludlow '%il portunity I will continue to ·. · '' · participate actively with Union share my concerns. · I have enjoyed being active during tny years at Un!on College and plan to keep active as an alllDllli. Judith Dimauro Are students still a part of campu:; life after they . graduatE? Well they should bem As Alumni Representative, I will be yollr liaison to Union, after y10u've graduated, anli tried to forget you were here. · · I've beoot an active participant in campus activities throughout my folli:' years. ~ost recently, · my work as editor on Concordy, and oil the committee for · Graduation does not mark the end ofoU'l' involvement in Union College and I feel that it is .important that our views and concerns be properly represented. I have had the pleasure of meeting an~:... working . with . many alunuu from various classes because I was the co-chairperson of Homecomftig '86 and have been . involved in homecoming and reWiion activities for several years• These experienc~s have shown me the benef1ts and rewards of having a strong, unified class. The Alumni Council truly is an active organiZation with a ves~ed interest in the future of Umon College. I hope that through my involvement in the Council otir class will · i>e strongly represented and be . able to maintain a sense of unity and class spirit. · planniilg Parents' Weekend, has put rne in contact with the is13ues; problems, and possible solution..s facing the future of the school. l W()uld like to continue to be in.volved. Gavin Morton College and its many facets! Please don't forget to vote. Thanks for your consideration. The Student Grounds Committee wants your suggestions, comments, and constructive criticisms C .ONJACT•. t.eata Jackson 6909 Seth Michaels 374·2228 Bill Hayes 4479 John Delconte 372-5897 Applications for the committee . are currently being accepted for the 87-88 school year in Mrs. Marra's office UNION COLI,.EGE Institute of Administration and Management MB.A COLLOQUIUM SPEAKERS: Dr. Hans Decker-President, Siemens Capital Corporation TOPIC: \The Global. Ecomony - The Challenge for Siemens\ · TIME: Thursday, May 7, 1987 at 3:45 PLACE: R,oom 312, Bailey Hall, Union College . . In addition to the challenges that every corp.orabon faces an creating and marketing products, international business ~ust also cope with cultural differences, currency exhange fluctuations and changing attitudes toward and regulation of international trade. Dr. Hans Decker has confronted these issues for 15 yearswith Siemens AG in the U.S. During that time Siemens sales have increase from approximately $15 million to n~arly $3 billion. Educated •in Europe, Dr. Decker now directs all of Siemens U:S. operqtions. Sh~mens Captial Corporation is the U.S. holdmg company for Siemens AG whose primary business Is in medical instruments and telecommunications. Dr. Decker has been involved in all of Sll'lmens'major U.S. acquisitions. His presentation will focus on Siemens' strategic need for global expanslc:m. Faculty, students and .interested 'public are invited to attend. Refreshments will be served. Day and as an R.A. I have alieady started working for our class by organizing the 100 Days 'til Graduation party last tenn. Basically, I love Union ru;td do not want my involvement to end when I leave the stage with my diploma. I would like to c<Jn· Unue to take part. in the decisions and issues that affect not only the College itself, but we as future alumni. Best of luck in your future endeavors. Thank you for your support. Bob Stenard The four years I have spent at · Union will be ones that I fondly remember. After graduation we will all pursue our different goals, but it is the past f()ur years that provide a common bond. We are Union alumni. As Alumni Representative I would like to help make your future with Union ancl each other grow stronger. Thank you. Kathleen Taylor My name is Kathleen Taylor. I would like to serve as the Alwnni Council Representative for the class of 1987. Throagh my years at Union, I have become involved in many ac- tivities including .sports and Greek life. As president of Sigma Delta Tau, I became familiar with several ad· ministrative aspects of the college. I have enjoyed this opportunity to learn about Union, and I woUld like to participate with. the colleg~ after my graduatwn. As Alunm1 Council Representative I could continue giving to this in· stitution which has given me a means to develop strength and confidence in my abilities. Wanted: Student Security Workers Contact Chris at x4106 or Michele at x4481

. Page 1~ CO!-J.,COR!};l,lf_!j~IS, May 7, ),987 ........ ~·· .'¥'·. . J . THE ARTS Jim and BUddy at The Movies By JIM MA<:L.AUGHLIN .HM AND BUDDY PRESENT THE FIDO'S At once Bucld~ and I wish to apologize for n{)ot having seen a new movie tills week. We ax·e deeply sorry an<i wis~ to report that we h()pe that this irresponsible· ileilavior does not occur again. Anyhow, we still had contractual: obligations. to fulfill and w~re required to produce a ICDlttrnn for this edition. After spending many long hard minates in closed- chamber deliberation, Buddy and I reacheod a solution as to how to fUl otu space in this paper with SIJrnething worth reading, an '~11wards\ column. Exactly what -every good Arts writer does armmd New Year's Eve whenth~y want to get out of the office an<! {>arty. But Buddy- was not one to just \whip up'~ a slipshod piece of writing-n() ~ay. She wanted to preserve our integrity by having real awards. After checking blt~r our treasury, we found we hadonly ten bucks, not quite en()ugh. to purchase the prestigiou:s trophy we had in mind. Aftel' trying to obtain financial backing from a few undisclosed sources, we took to desperate 111easures, all in the name of j()!umalism. I handed my little friend half of our worth to place :a bet on a hot tip at OTB. Ho'WEVer, Buddy got a little ambitious and tried to \box the q11inella\ on a few of her greyllollrld chwns. Needless to say we: ·llad enough money to purchase 11 box of Milk Bones and a can of gold spraypaint. Thus, the Fido's were made a reality. 'lhe following awards were prEsented after a full evening of difficult choices and Dominoe's Pizza. FUNNIEST CHARACTER FROM A MOVlE ... .A. close tie between \Mars\ the rapping B- boy froTJt Spike Lee's SHE'S GOTTA HAVE ITl and \Ed Rooney\ Ute hell bent principal from F :&RRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF. Both characters were insnunental in making ihe movies work and will stay in the mine! as ••classics.\ WORST USE OF GOOD COMEDY' STARS ... The casting of. John CJandy and Eugene Levy in the stupid film ARMED AND DANGE:JlOUS. BEST USE OF GOOD COMEDY STARS S ... Bette Midler and Shelly Long irt . the very fQJUly OUTRA(l EOUS FORTUNE. BEST CASTING OF SELF .. :Woody Allen was perfect irl the supporting role of ''the llY]l()chrondriac\ in his movie HANNAH AND HER SISTERS. BEST PSYCHOPATH ... Dennis Hopper in BLUE VELVET was enough to make your skin crawl. A close second goes to Christopher Walken as the chilled-out thief in AT CLOSE RANGE. . BEST USE OF GUNS AND BULLETS ... LETHAL WEAP- ON the all-out ''shoot 'em up and blow it up\ movie starring Mel Gibson and Danny Glover. WORST USE OF A THESAURUS ... To the critics and viewers who went crazy with the metaphor about the movie PLATOON. A good war movie, yes. But people, let's not hide behind celluloidal experiences in coping with real life shames such as Vietnam. You can't talk about it as if you were there unless you were-- remember that. BEST PERFORMANCE IN. A BAD MOVIE ... Mary Stuart Masterton for her splendid job in John Hughes' SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL. A close second goes to loony-tune Bobcat Goldwaith for being the only real funny thing in ONE CRAZV SUMMER. BEST LACK OF WAR- DROBE ... The steamy love scenes with Rob Lowe and Demi Moore in ABOUT LAST NIGHT were far better than any of those of more controversy. Furthermore, they were ac- tually good ( actingwise that is), in the film. DISCIPLINE COMMITTEE AWARD ... This goes to John Hughes for his blatant PRETTY IN PINK plagiarism titled SOME KIND OF WON- DERFUL. Apparently Hughes thinks he can release anything that hints of \teen-angst\ with rock soundtrack and make big bucks. BEST USE OF MTV ... TOP GUN wins this award hands down. lbe movie was nothing more than two hours of the sun glinting perfectly off Tom Cruise's helmet while music throbbed in the background. It's still raking in the dough though. SCENE STEALER AWARD ... • Maria Mastroantonio cops this award for averting eyes from Cruise and Newman in THE COLOR OF MONEY, no mean feat. BEST ACTOR, .. William Hurt for the movie CHILDREN OF A LESSER GOD. He spent most of the movie talking not only his lines, but everyone else's; and yet nothing was lost in the translation. Ah, but he already received his Oscar. BEST ACTRESS ... Chloe Webb steals this Fido only after months of heal'ing her cry \Sid Sid!\ wrack my brai,n from the movie SID AND NANCY. At first l thought she was overacting, but now realize she was playing the perfect pathetic junkie. BEST. COMEDY ... FE.RRIS BUELI.ER'S DAY OFF runs away with this prize. This .is one of those films that become funnier each time you watch it and is destined to take its place next to CADDYSHACK and THE BLUES BROTHERS on top .of the TV in videocassette. BEST MOVIE ... SID AND- NANCY, a blending of fact and fantasy that turned one of the · most sordid stories of late ·into one the audience could both cringe at and understand. Guitarist Mike Smiarowski Fusion Fires . Up Old Chapel ByFREDK~CHENHEITER and :FRIENDS On April 28, a small crowd of Uni()n College jazz enthusiasts were treated t(} a fine show by jazz fusion guitarist Mike · , Smiarowsky ill the Old Chapel. was written by Smiarowsky with inspiration from the Twilight Zone (you can figure it {)Ut). Next, pieces off his mo~t recent album. Island Fantasy, were featured. The tune \Off to China,\ used a jazz style Smiarowsky called \Chinese funk.'' This displayed the diversity of sounds that all present enjoyed. Especially interesting was the synth-like sound Manno achieved at one point with his bass. effects. ;.-· ··:- . Mike Smiarowsky has played · with Al DiMeola and has warmed up for Maynard Ferguson. Smiarowsky's band consists of Larry Manno on bass, and Malty Raymondo on · drums. The show got off to a late start at 8:4:5 instead of 8:00, but the crowtl enjoyed beers brought from home while waiting. (These were later ordered out of Old Chapel by a random auth()ritative figure ·in a 1lllifonn. ). The first two songs of the- evening were from his first album, Fusion. The second tune, \Atmospheric Illusions'' On the whole, tile show was good with the exc:eption of the few instances when the drummer · seemed lost. Smiarowsky carried on a good rapport with the crowd which generated a very jovial at- mosphere throughout the evening. Coupled 'With his guitar virtuosity, Sm ar()WSky is a jazz guitarist to be watched for in the .future. Students Needed For Advertising Contest Make a little money now and maybe more later. 1 Real Photographer (male or female) 1 Model French Chef (male) 1 Modeltifeguard or Gymnast (male) 1 ModefChe€rleader (female) will take only a few hours or less! F=or more information please call: Alan Ka.rey 374-9136, Room 356 Please leave if I'm n()t in. You mayBe· _· · .. here?\. Well, listen · ·· ·· ···. '<,: •• Top Adds · ''\ ,. .,,.aiplacemepts (LP}. Spear of Destiny Moe Tucker R.E.td. (LP} , , Adventure Piek fuzz Box .. ·-. .... , .. ,_,., .. i. ' l l I

Page 12 CONCORDJ~NSIS, May 7, 1987 THE ARTS Jim and Buddy at The Movies By JIM MACLAUGHLIN :~M AND BUDDY PRES~NT fHE FIDO'S At once Buddy and I wisl1 to apologizE for not having seell. a new mo-vie fuis week. WE are deeply S()rry and wish to reJJort that we hope that this irresponsible behavier doEs not occur again. Anyhow, WE still ha<.! contractual obligation:; to fulfill and were reY.uir ed to produce a collunn for this edition. After spending many long hard minutes in closed- rhambel· deliberation, Btlddy and 1 reached a solution as to how to fill our space in this paper w1th somethmg N()rth reading, an ··awards\ colllfl1I1. Exactly what every good Alts writer does aroWld New Y-ear's Eve wllen they want to get oat of the office and party. Bat Buddy was not one: to just \whip up\ a slipshod ~ieee of vvriting-no way. She Wll.nted to preserve our integrity by havi11g real awards. After checking into our treasl.iry, we found we had only ten bttcks, not quite enough to purch;ase the prestigious trophy w~ had in mind. After trying to obtain fina11cial backing frC>ID a few undisclosed sources, we took to desperate measures, .al1 in the name of journalism. I handed my little friend half of ()l.lr worth to place a bet on a llot tip at OTB. However, Buddy got a little ambitious and tried to \boox the quinella\ on e~ few of her greyhound chums. r:leedless to say we had enougll rnoney to purchase a box of Milk Bones and a can of gold S]Jraypaint. Thus, the Fido's were made a reality. The following awards were presented after a full evening of difficult choices and Dominoe's Pizza. FUNNIEST CHARACTER FROM A MOVIE ... A close tie between \Mars\ the rapping B- boy from Spike Lee's SHE'S GOTTA HAVE IT! ;and ''Ed RCJoney\ the hell bent principal from FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF. Both cllaracters were instrumental ill making thE movies work and will stay in the mind as \classics.\ WORST USE OF' GOOD COMEDY STARS ... '!be casting of John Candy and Eu~ene Levy in the stupid fihn AB!\mD AND DANGEROUS. BES'r USE OF GOOD COMEDY STARS S ... Bette Midler .and Shelly Long in the vEr-y funny OUTRAGEOUS FORTUNE. BEST CASTING OF SELF ... Woody .Allen was perfect in the supporting role of ·~the hypochrondria.c\ in his movie HANNAH AND HER SISTERS. BEST PSYCHOPATH ... Dennis Hopper in BLUE VELVET was enough to make your skin crawl. A close second gees to Christopher Walken as the chilled-out thief in AT CLOSE RANGE. BEST USE OF GUNS AND BULLETS ... LETHAL WEAP- ON the all-out ''shoot 'em ap and blow it up\ movie stardng Mel Gibson and Danny Glover. WORS1' USE OF A THESAURUS ... To the critics and viewers who went crazy with the metaphor about the movie PLATOON. A good war movie, yes. But people, let':; not hide behind celluloidal experiences in coping with real life shames such as Vietnam. You can't talk about it as if yoll were there unless you were- remember that. months of hearing her cry ''Sid, Sid! \ wrack my brain frem the movie SID AND NANCY. At fi,rst I thought she was overacting, but now realize she was playing the perfect pathetic junkie. BEST COMEDY ... FEHRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF runs away with this prize. This is one ef those films that bec9me funnier each time you watch it and is destined te take its place next to CADDYSHACK and THE BLUES BROTHERS on top of the TV in videocassette. BEST MOVIE. .. SID AND- NANCY, a blending of fact and fantasy that turned one of the most serdid stories of late into one the audience could both cringe at and tlllderstand. Guitarist Mike Smiarowski Fusion Fires Up Old Chapel By FRED KIRSCHENHEITER and FRIENDS :·r ·~,.. 0.·\\'' ;-..,...:.., t.,:, D•~l.,.:. •· .-- .-.~ !o ..... t•\ A···'if•(;l.:. d On April28, a small crowd of Union College jazz enthusiasts were treated to a fine show by jazz fusion guitarist Mike Smiarowsky in the Old Chapel. Mike Smiarowsky has played with Al DiMeola and has warmed up for Maynard Ferguson. Smiarowsky's band consists of Larry Manno on bass, and Marty Raymondo on drllnls. The show got off to a late start at 8:45 instead of 8:00, but the crowd enjoyed beers brought from home while waiting. (These were later ordered out of Old Chapel by a random authoritative figure in a UIJiform.) was written by Smiarowsky with inspiration from the Twiligllt Zone l you can figure it out), Next, pieces off his most recent album. Island Fantasy, were featured. The tune \Off to China,\ used a jazz style Smiarowsky called \Chinese funk.\ This displayed the diversity of sounds that all present enjoyed. Especially interesting was the synth-like sound Manno achieved at one point witll his bass effects. BEST PERFORMANCE IN A BAD MOVIE ... Mary Stu~rt Masterton for her splendid job in John Hughes' SOME KIND OF WONDERFUL. A cl<Jse second goes to loony-tune Bo beat Goldwaith for being the only real funny thing in ()NE CRAzy SUMMER. BEST LACK OF WAR- DROBE ... The steamy l~ve scenes with Rob Lowe and Demi Moore in ABOUT LAST NlGI-IT were far better than a11y of th()se of more controve.-:sy. Furthermore, they were ac- tually good ( actingwise that is), in the fihn. DISCIPLINE COMMI1'TEE AWARD ... This goes to John Hughes for his blatant PRE11'Y IN PINK _plagiarism titled SOME KIND OF WON- DERFUL. Apparently Hughes thinks he can release anything that hints of \teen-angst\ with rock soundtrack and make big bucks. BEST USE OF MTV .. .TOP GUN wins this award hands down. The movie was nothing more than two hours of thE sun glinting perfectly off Tom Cruise's helmet while music throbbed in the backgrolllld. It's still raking in the dough though. SCENE STEALER AWARD ... - Maria Mastroantonio cops this award for averting eyes from Cruise and Newman in THE COLOR OF MONEY, no mean feat. BEST ACTOR. .. William Hurt for the movie CHILDREN OF A LESSER GOD. He spent most of the movie talking not only his lines, but everyone else's; and yet nothing was lost i:n the translation. Ah, but he already received his Oscar. BEST ACTRESS ... Chloe Webb steals this Fido only after 1-SHIRT DESIG CONTEST Sponsored by the Homecoming '87 Committee Creat1ve Students, Facultf and Staff are welcome to The first two songs of the evening were from his first album, Fusion. The second tune, \Atmospheric Illusions\ On the whole, the show was good with the exception of the few instances when the drummer seemed lost. Smiarovvsky carried on a good rapport with the crowd which generated a very jovial at- mosphere throughout the evening. Coupled with his guitar virtuosity, Sm arowsky is a jazz guitarist to be watched for in the future. submit their ideas or drawings to Kerry or Sharon at the Alumni Office by May 29. Yourdesignmayhave up to four colors. A CASH prize will be awarded to the w~r:1ner. lhi~ Y~'u's theme Is: . \UNION A BIGGER and BmER U' Students Needed For Advertising Contest Make a little money now and maybe more later. 1 Real Photographer (male or fermle) 1 Model French Chef (male) 1 Model Lifeguard or Gymnast (male) 1 Model Cheerleader (ferrale) will take only a few hours or less! For more informatio.n please call: Alan Karey 374-9136, Room 356 Please leave message if I'm not in. ~ NEW 8.97 You may be askmg yourself, ~~Who are ~~They Might Be Giants .. and what are they doin here?\. Well. listen to the New 8~97 and find out! No. 1 2 $. 4 5 6 7 8 8.97 Artist Suzanne·Ve~a They Might Be Giants REM Replacements Cure Hoodoo Gtin.Js Smiths U2 Mlcroclisney Top Adds Replacaments (LP) Spear of Destiny Moe Tucker R.E.M.{LP) Adventure Pick Fuzz Box Prog.ramming Notes Album \Luka\, \Gyj:)Sy•12 They Mloht 8& Giants \Ages of\YflU\ ... 12 \The Ledgew • 12 ·wny Can't I Be You?• BloW YO\Jr Cool! louder Than Bombs The Joshua Tree Crooked Mile Lable A&M IRS Sire Sire Elektra Sire Island Vlrg1n Rich Chillout•s Dance Corner 1. \My Heart Gets AU The Brellks\ Monet 2. ftBaok and Forti'\\ Cameo 3. \Why You Treat Me So Bad\ Club Nouveau 4. \The Pleasure Principle\ Janet Jackson 5 ... Chicago Song~~ David Sanbom ADD/ \StU1 A Thrill\ Jodie Walley • Parents' WeekencJ Extravaganza! Saturday 2:30-3:30 The New 89.7 (Top recoJds for the .Year} is May 26.

'.: ·~~ -~----~ . - - ~--- -- ..... __ . - - -- ' -· - -- -- .. \- ---' - . i Waiti·ng for Godot ... ''A Family Affair'' By R.YSSEFEINGOLD jfl}a(B J,lJtt/rJ W (fJ 0~® fJ11!1lB $ T/JllJ,.a®TJJ !PrJJl.rre JJ(J,(irJ · · F()r those of you who read Maratto pair and tbe Cousineau-Brown pair are complementary couples. Since the bond between both these pairs is strong it re-emphasizes the extreme differeQ.ce between the Ticknor-Maratto relationship and the masochistic relationship eXisting between Cousineau and Brown. wondering howv . to show yo~ ,parents som~' ,()f tile college s ' best aspects 8Bi.also ,ke~pthern occupied, you snou!d. consider attending some of theSe ac· tivities. The Union College LAS/Gus pel Ens.emble/ Dance Ensemble Because this \Vee-kend is Parents' We~kend, many campus ()rganizations. will be participating in special . , Chamber <>rcllestra will be presenting a :f~ee concert on Sunday, May II) at 2:,0() .p.m. if1 Memorial Clla:pel, The group IS composed of ~ppr():l{imately forty students under . the direction .of FJ-ofessor Hilary • Tann. They spend several hours • practicing as~tgroup each week and presentthxee concerts each yeat. ReeentlS' they have spent · -ex:tra hours preparing for the lighting of a show . noticE~.\ Er11ce Pennypacker ·lS rlllll1mg · t)le light cues. from the board for · (}()DSPELL. There are ()Ver · 11iJ!ety cues for the sh()W 'SCJ he :must understand the Sh()w's <:()ncept and follow its progress carefully. The ligbts must hE set and hung before any boarov.rork can be arranged. T()day I watched Bruce dbrtb the scaffolding and bang the lights on the grid directly abo\Ve the stage. Different light~ are set ,for different effects, a ]o))not as easy as it might seem. . 'I'onight's rehearsal was the . first run..,through with lig-Jlt and a fUll band. The band consiSts of . a drwnmer, two guitarists~ and : a pianist. There was S()me · C·()nfusion among the band , members during the run- - programs. The goal of these functions is to entertai:n as well as to increase stt.t!lent and parent awareness of th:e groups' existence and i.rnporta11ee to the Union College, co:J:rllnUJJity. One such program will be spcm:sored by members of tlle Rlack and Latin Alliance of St11dents and will· ·include perf<>rmance by both the Gospel E:nsemble and the Dance Ensemhle. By joining forces, the groups hop.e to shoW the strength ,of cultural minorities on campus. The program will lle :p1esented on Saturday, :May 9 bet~een 4:00 and 5:00 .p.m. in tbe Arts Building. The J:>I()gram will consist of a poetry reading by Eddy -Rem:y; ~:series .of gospel and spiritual pieces sung by members of tlte Gospel Ensemble, Wlder tbe direction of Leata Jackson 11n<l Charles Moore, and several rCJutines by the members -()f tbe Dance Ensemble. In adcl1;ion, the Dance Elnsemble, llilder the direction of K:eisbaGadson, will be perrorrning interpretive moveme11t:s for a -few of the Gospel Ensenible\s oongs. · . Sunday aftel\n(lon con-cert. They will he playirJg £ow numbers including \Tile Italian Sym- phony\ by ·MendelS<Jn and a selection fiom ,.,,Secret Marriage'' by Jim Cimarosa. In additlon,· the:y will be per- . . tflrough because ~he drU!Ililler • ltad trouble hearmg what was (;oing on and the . guitarist ~!oUldn't hear the smgilrS so adjustments were made •. . forming two SJlecial pieces. The ·first is Hayde-ll'S \C()ncerto for . Trumpet'' wbi<ih will feature · Tom Cbristopller, a junior, on tl\umpet. The: final piece, en- titled '~Avanti,•' is particularly special because it was com- . posed by S<J()homore flutist Virginia G11iglaino as a requirement Eor an independent study course. Virginia is a pr.e- medicine Bi-obgy-Music major. . Tbe concer:-t promises to be . bot}! enjoy-able and en· tertaining, SOi (:om.e on Sunday and show them your support. God spell: Be.hind the ·seenes By JESSI CAt. L. ADELSON All of the groups involved in the perfo1·mance .are quit~ active on campus throughout the school year. Justl;ast Friday· evening, the Bla~k and Latin Alliance ,of Students presentee! Welcome Parents! This \Seven ·Bright Walkers\' · weekend Union College's written 'by James Huff and dramatl~ <>rganization, directed by Leata .Jllckson and . Momtebanks, :is presenting two Silvia Carey. The jprod~ction . ·productions,. GODSPELL and showed the au.-di.enc-~ the histo,ry WAITING FOR G()DOT~ A lot of blacks in the. United States · of hard worlt is p11t. into anY and highlighted so.me of their .theatrical pr11duction and often accomplisbments from the days the techies, slang for crew of col()nial sla'Very to tbe .events members, ace not recognized. of the eivU righ.ts m()vement. The produ<!tion of GOD• The Gospel Ens~mble 'Yas SPELL has been in progress started two years ago and . has .since· the beginning of winter steadily gained ·sl.lp.port · since · term. Nov.r a.s I si.t in' the Nott that time. They petfonn: a · only five da)'s before opening, variety .of gospel an.d spiritual people are .J)Ujjy at work com· music at ~riodic C;OI.lcerts ~n pletipg the set. steve Boone earn pus as~ well.as at about s1:x designed tile .set, . tile inscape of area churches~ file group ·. a wareb.ouse, .and With the help recently sponsored a Gospel · of the crew, the set is being E)dravaganza t() V!Yhich they constructed writll close attention i.rivited the membeFS of gospel paid.todetail.For eKample, last choirs associated with these week they blillt sllipping crates local chllfches as well as th.e and to mai(e the crates look gospel groups a.f nearby realistic, they carved stamps colleges such as Olleonta State. and inked them on the sides of They also participated in the . the crates. At this moment, Namrne Conventi()n which was · Steve is mi.U!Ig up paints to held at Union earlier this year. match the C()lor of brickface. 'The Dance 'Ensemble i$ a Then with different sizes of relatively new orgllnization at rectangular .spOnges he fills in Union 1111-d, therefme, has been the outlinei bricks that con- involved in ()aly a few stitute the w!llks of the set. prO.ductions. The groups. have Therearemmy spacesthat are been W()rking hard recently so · being fille<l. with doors and that everything will be ready windows imd signs, all of which for the upcoming perfot;mance. are baing blillt for the show ~Y TI1e show will cert.amly be students wb() work on the crew enjoyable, so conne support ' under Steve~s direction. When these three organizstions. the set is almost dDne the floor Orchestra Concert By MELISSA. STEW ART Because thls corning weekend is Parents' WeekeDd, various groups will be presenting performances t() show parents as wen as tneir . fellow st~dents what theY have be-en working on all year. If you have been . will be pai!lted to resemble concrete. Allofthis detail might not ·be noticed but it adds to the atmosphere\s authenticity. It helps the acbrs aJ'Id it helps the audience believe what is hap- . pening ~nd become a part ofthe • action. An important part . ()f any production Is the lighting. As · Donald JobllstJn once told me, \Nob()dy c()IJOm.ents o~ a show that has ~ood liglltmg, . only when mistaltes are made lS the The pieces are all staMrng to £311 together, as they .always seem to the last week before opening and the cast an<d, crew llave spent a . lot of t~e .preparing the theatre ftOr this extravaganza. Plus • o • ByJOYCYEUL The Arts Club is headed. by · Linda Fisher, who has been president since her sopb()tnore year. The club arrang~s for rnovies to be shown on c~pus, and will be sh()wing a film on Pllilip Gli~n today. This year's sh()W for. Parents~ Weekett<l will be very similal.\ to tile per- formance given last year. The · Arts Club will be getting together with the dumber music gl.\oup and have a per- formance in the Art Studio. This \'ill be directed by Pi..\ofessor Eilary Tahn. The performance \'ill be a combination ()f song · and music. Linda F'isher ctirrently has an art exllibition • en display in the Arts :Sllilding~ -which consists of both <Ira wings snd paintings. Her art bas won her the Bittlem.an Pri2:e. Dutch Pipers The Dutch Pipers an<l• the Garnet Minstrelles, led by Louis John Wertalik and Drina Webster respectively, will be performing · on Parent.s' .. Weekend. The petfonna:nce will take place in front of Sehaffer Library on Saturday, l\1ay 9 from 12:30 to 1: 3(). The songswhich will ~e .perf~rn:-aed will be from the Ftftles. SlldiES I as well as Barber Shop G;!uartet · type numbers. This promises to · he a very successful per- formance, and all are 11rged to attend. Jazz Ensemble The Jazz Ensemble is headed ; by Marc Slaga, and directed. by . ?rof. Keith Bushey. On A()rll II, the ensemble traveled to St. Rose to perform with e11sembles from several cli.fferent ,cCJlleges. F'or Parents' Weeke!ld, they . will perform on Saturd.ay, May 9 in Memorial Chapel·fr()m 4:0CI . ' to 4:45. 'I'hls will be thE final ! · perfonnance of the ye~r. The:Y· . ()rganize everything, . .a11d they ' are constantly looking f()r new • members. The mUSic \1\lill be ()f . tbe jazz variety, and sllollld be V\ery enjoyable. Samuel Beckett';s play ''Waiting for Godot\ and were bored by it and claiin that this play must bave repeated the line \we are vraitblgfor Godot'' at least forty times, then this rev-iew is for yeu . · What better weekend than Parents' Weekend to... impress y-cur parents with your SQphistication, knowledge and . a_ppreciation of good theate~­ Wlty not suggest that the fam1ly attend \Waiting for Go dot.\ This could ease the tension whiCh you might experience later when asking Dad for more m~ney. You could of course • claim that your finances have become tight because you have · been frequently going to · Mauntebanks' performances. Therefore, think before . rej ectmg the idea of seeing this Samuel Beckett play. On Sunday, May 3 at 2:00 p.m. . in Jackson's Gardens, I saw \Waiting for Godot. \ I was slightly perplexed that by 1 :57 nobody seemed interested in t()day's performance. As one mi.ght assume the audience did grow significantly by show time . The interesting thing · about tile .garden atmosphere was that · it exuded a casual air to the meaning of \going to theater.\ Students just. dropped by when and if they wanted. This can be distracting to the actors and a11dience when people are coming and going. Even two dogs attended. I do discourage you from. bringing ·your pets even though this performance is a family affair. . . 'The cast includes Kerrie 1 'l'iclmor as Vladimir, Michelle Maratto as Estragon, Claire C()llSineau as Po2zo, Steve Brown played Lucky and Jessica Adelson is the Child. 'lbe chemistry between the actresses and actors in this play is excellent. The Ticknor- The play draws upon some of life's basic themes. Some of Vladimir's responses to Estragon include, \Why do you always come crawling back?\ It's a simple question of will power.\ \I don't know what to think any more.\ As well as the serious moments, the play has its hwnorous parts too. The costuming is quite im- pressive. Miss Ticknor wears a fitted t1.1I'quoise leotard, red stretch pants and a magenta sequence beanie. In contrast to this promiscuous outfit, Miss Maratto dresses in an \earthy\ outfit. A tie-dyed skirt with a white embroidered dress over it and several colorful vests. This costume might even be an at- tention grabber in New York City. Hopefully you will not attend \Waiting for Godot\ for the wrong reasons such as to wit- ness the physically abusive treatment of a human being. However, if that is what brings you there then surely there is much more beside this scene that will keep your attention. Go! This play can be seen on campus 4-24 at 3:00p.m., 5-l at 3:00 p.:r;n., 5-3 at 2:00 p .. , 5-11 at 5:00p.m. in the gardens, 5-13 at 5:00p.m. At the flagpole on 5-29 at 3:30,6-13 at 1:00 p.m. During Parents' Weekend \Waiting for Godot\ will be performed 5-8 at 5:00p.m. and 5-9 at 1:00 p.m .. Both performances will be in Jackson's Gardens. One may also see the play on Jay Street in Schenectady on 5-16 at 1:30 p.m. May 19-23 Waiting For Godot in the Nott 8:00p.m.

if 1Ja (!) Jllf(f~ 'W (8 ~~ ® [HlJl!J ~ rtlro fl® ro JP(JJJtre oo(f~ BLAS/G I wondering how to show your . 0 s p e . parents some of the college's E bl I best aspects and also keep them ... nsem . e . occupied, you should consider D E emble attending some of these ac- . 3DCe DS tivities. The Union College By MELISSA STEWART Chamber Orcbestra will be Because this weekend is Parents' Weekend, many campus organizations will be participating in special programs. The goal of these functions is to entettain as well as to increase student and parent awareness of the groups' eJtistence and importance to the Union College community. One such program will be sponsored by members of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students and will include performance by both the Gospel Ensemble and the Dance Ensemble. By joining forces, the groups hope to show the strength of cultural minorities on campus. The program will be presented on Saturday, May 9 between 4:00 and 5:00 p.m. in the Arts Building. The program will consist of a poetry reading by Eddy Remy, a series of gospel and spiritual pieces sung by members of the Gospel Ensemble, under the direction of Leata Jackson and Charles Moore, and several routines by the members of the Dance Ensemble. ln addition, the Dance Ensemble, under the direction of Keisha Gadson, will be performing interpretive movements for a few of the Gospel Ensemble's songs. All of the groups involved in the performance are quite active on campus throughout the school year. Just last Friday evening, the Black and Latin Alliance of Students presented \Seven Bright Walkers\ written by James Huff and directed by Leata Jackson and Silvia Carey. The production showed the audience the history of blacks in the United States and highlighted some of their accomplishments from the days of colonial slavery to the events of the civil rights movement. The Gospel Ensemble was started two years ago and has steadily gained support since that time. They perform a variety of gospel and spiritual music at periodic concerts on campus as well as at about six area churches. The group recently sponsored a Gospel Extravaganza to which they in-vited the members of gospel choirs associated with these local churches as well as the gospel groups of nearby colleges such as Oneonta State. They also participated in the Namme Convention which was held at Union earlier this year. The Dance Ensemble is a relatively new organization at Union and, therefore, has been involved in only a few productions. The groups have been working bard recently so that everything will be ready for the upcoming performance. The show will certainly be enjoyable, so come support these three organizations. Orchestra Concert By MELISSA STEWART Because this coming weekend is Parents' Weeltend, vari~us groups will be presentmg performances to show parents as well as their fellow students what they have been working on all year. If you have been presenting a free concert ~n S1:Ulday, May Hl at 2 :00 p.m. m Memorial Chapel. The group is composed of a.ppreximately forty students under the direction of P.rofessor Hilary Tann. They spend several hours practicing as a group each week and present three concerts each year. Recently tbey have spent extra hours preparing for the Sunday afternoon concert. They will be playing four numbers including \The Italian Sym- phony\ by Mendelson and a selection hom \Secret Marriage\ by Jim Cimarosa. In addition, they will be per- forming two special pieces. The first is Hayden's \Concerto for Trumpet\ whie!h will feature Tom Christopher. a junior~ on trumpet. The fin.al piece, en- titled \Avanti is particularly special because it was corn- posed by sophomore fllltist Virginia Guiglaino as a requirement for an independent study course. Virginia is a pre- medicine Biology-Music major. The concert promises to be both enjoyable and en- tertaining, so come on Sunday and show them your support. Godspell: Behind the Scenes By JESSICA L. ADELSON Welcome Parents! This weekend Union College's dramatic ()r ganizatio n, Mountebanks, is presenting two productions, GODSPELL and WAITING FOR GO DOT. A lot of hard work is put into any theatrical production and often the techies, slang for crew members, are not recognized. The production of GOD- SPELL has been in progress since the beginning of winter term. Now as 1 sit in the Nott only five days before opening, people are busy at work com- pleting the set. Steve Boone designed the set, the inscape of a warehouse, and with the help of the crew, the set is being constructed with close attention paid to detail. For example, last week they built shipping crates and to make the crates look realistic, they carved .stamps and inked them on the sides of the crates. At this moment, Steve is mixing up paints to match the c<Jlor of brickface. Then with different sizes of rectangular S(>Onges he fills in the outlined bricks that con- stitute the \Valks of the set. There are many spaces that are being filled with doors and windows and signs, all of which are !><ling built for the show by students who work on the crew under Steve's direction. When the set is almost done the floor will be paillted to resemble concrete. All oft:his detail might not be noticed but it adds to the atmosphere's authenticity. It helps the actors and it helps the audience believe what is hap- pening and become a part of the action. An important part of any production is the lighting. As Donald Johnson once told me, \Nobody comments on a show that has gol)d lighting, . only when mistakes are made 1S the lighting of a show noticed.\ Bruce Pennypacker is rwming the light cues from the board for GODSPELL. There are over ninety cues for the show so he must Wlderstand the show's concept and follow its progress carefully. The lights must be set and hung before any board work can be arranged. Today I watched Bruce climb the scaffolding and hang the lights on the grid directly above the stage. Different lights are set for.different effects, a job not as easy as it might seem. Tonight's rehearsal was the first run-through with light and a full band. The band consists of a drummer, two guitarists, and a pianist. There was some confusion among the band members during the run- through because the drummer had trouble hearing what was going on and the guitarist couldn't hear the singers so adjustments were made .. The pieces are all startmg to fall together, as they always seem to the last week before opening and the cast and crew have spent a lot of t~e preparing the theatre for this extravaganza. Plus . \ . ByJOYCYBUL The Arts Club is headed by Linda Fisher, who has been president since her sophomore year. The club arranges for movies to be shown on campus, and will be showing a film on Philip Guson today. This year's show for Parents' Weekend will be very similar to the per- formance given last year. The Arts Club will be getting together with the chamber music group, and have a per- formance in the Art Studio. This will be directed by Professor Hilary Tahn. The performance will be a combination of song and music. Linda Fisher currently has an art exhibition on display in the Arts Building, which consists of both drawings and paintings. Her art has won her the Bittleman Prize. Dutch Pipers The Dutch Pipers and the Garnet Minstrelles, led by Louis John Wertalik and Drina Webster respectively, will be performing on Parents' Weekend. The performance will take place in front of Schaffer Library on Saturday, May 9 from 12:30 to 1:30. The songswhich will ~e .perf~r:n:ed will be from the Ftfbes, Stxttes, as well as Barber Shop Quartet type numbers. This promises to be a very successful per- formance, and all are urged to attend. Jazz Ensemble The Jazz Ensemble is headed by Marc Slaga, and directed by Prof. Keith Bushey. On AprilS, the ensemble traveled to St. Rose to perform with ensembles from several different colleges. For Parents' Weekend, they will perform on Saturday, May 9 in Memorial Chapel from 4:00 to 4:45. This will be the final performance of the year. They organize everything, and they are constantly looking for new members. The music will be of the jazz variety, and should be very enjoyable. -y-- - 2 THE ARTS Waiting for Godot ... ''A Family Affair'' By IL YSSE FEINGOLD For those of you who read Samuel Beckett's play \Waiting for Godot\ and were bored by it and claim that this play must have repeated the line \we are waiting for Godot\ at least forty tiJnes, then this review is for you. What better weekend than Parents' Weekend te impress your parents with your sophistication, knowledge and appreciation of good theater- Why not suggest that the family attend \Waiting for Godot.\ This could ease the tension which you might experience later when asking Dad for more money. You could of course claim that your finances have become tight because you have been frequently going to Mountebanks' performances. Therefore, think before rejecting the idea of seeing this Samuel Beckett play. On Sunday, May 3 at 2:00p.m. in Jackson's Gardens, I saw \Waiting for Godot.\ I was slightly perplexed that by 1:57 nobody seemed interested in today's performance. As one might assume the audience did grow significantly by show time. The interesting thing about the garden atmosphere was that it exuded a casual air t<l the meaning of \going to theater.\ Students just dropped by when and if they wanted. This can be distracting to the actors and audience when people are coming and going. Even two dogs attended. I do discourage you from bringing your pets even though this performance is a family affair. The cast includes Kerrie Ticknor as Vladimir, Michelle Maratto as Estragon, Claire Cousineau as Pozzo, Steve Brown played Lucky and Jessica Adelson is the Child. The chemistry between the actresses and actors in this play is excellent. The Ticknor- Maratto pair and the Cousineau-Brown pair are complementary couples. Since the bond between both these pairs is strong it re-emphasizes the extreme difference between the Ticknor-Maratto relationship and the masochistic relationship existing between Cousineau and Brown. The play dr avvs upon some of life's basic themes. Some of Vladimir's responses to Estragon include, \Why do you always come crawling back?\ It's a simple question of will power.\ \I don't know what to think any mor-e.\ As well as the serious moments, the play has its htunorous r>arts too. The costwning is quite im- pressive. Mis~ Ticknor wears a fitted turquoise leotard, red stretch pants and a magenta sequence beanie. In contrast to this promiscuous outfit, Miss Maratto dresses in an ··earthy\ outfit. A tie-dyed skirt with a white embroidered dress over it and several colorful vests. This costwne might even be an at- tention grabber in New York City. Hopefully you will not attend \Waiting for Godot\ for the wrong reasons such as to wit- ness the physically abusive treatment of a human being. However, if that is what brings you there then surely there is much more beside this scene that will keep your attention. Go! This play can be seen on campus 4-24 at 3:00 p.m., 5-l at 3:00p.m., 5-3 at 2:00 p .. , 5-11 at 5:00p.m. in the gardens, 5-13 at 5:00 p.m. At tile flagpole on 5-29 at 3:30, 6-13 at 1:00 p.m. During Parents' Weekend \Waiting for Godet\ will be performed 5-8 at 5:00p.m. and 5·9 at 1:00 p.m .. Both performances will be in Jackson's Gardens. One may also see the play on Jay Street in Schenectady on 5-16 at 1:30 p.m. May \19-23 Waiting For Godot in the Nott 8:00p.m. .. Art's Happenings May 7 On Campus: Godspell- Moontebanks production at f! p.nt. May 9 Off Campus; May. 10 Off Campus: May 12 On C~mpus: Off Campus: May 16 Off Campus May 26 On Campus: May 27th Off Campus Dance ~ Schenectady Co-mmunity College presents Mime and Dance at 3 p.m. Ft>r information ca11482-2886. Julio Iglesias at 1:30 p.m. at Glens Falls Civic Center. German Film - Vi-enna .. Pictures of a Thwn at 7 p.m. in HU014. Play~ . Camel()t at 8 p.m. at Proctor~s thru May 17. Play -Aladdin at 4 p.m. att_he Egg. Admissioll Free and wtll play through May 30. German Movie,! Der Sbrott Vorn Wege/A Step from the Right Pa1a at 7 p.m. in HU014. Concert~ REO 'S~wagon at Glens Falls Ci-vic Center at 7:30 p;m, For mfort~tation call 79S~ 0.20:L .. ......... :.-}:,;·:·.-.. : ...•. ·~ .... .

. Page 14 CONCOR[)IENSIS, May 7, 1987 THE ARTS Suzanne Vega Suzanne Vega Shocks Audience by Eating, A Live Rat! ByJIMMANLY Just kidding, but no one ever· reads these articles anyway. I guess that must of been tlie Beastie B()ys concert. As if playing ill Schenectady wasn't enough, S1.12anne Vega returned to the Capital District region on Friday, May 1 to the Troy Savings ·Bank Music Hall. Suzanne's appearance marked the first opporhmity for Union students to enjoy her live performance since her show in Memorial Chapel this past fall. Not surprisingly, those that ventured out to see the show were not let down, as Ms. Vega put on an excellent per- formance before a sold~out auditorium. Yet before Suzanne even reached th-e stage, a band from Jamestown, NY, called 10,000 Maniacs were busy putting on their own 'warm up' show. The five member band is all male, with the exception of the lead singer Natalie, who in essence held the show together for the rest of the players. Her inspired voice was coupled with a l.Ulique and provocative stage show, which succeeded in stealing the attention of an initially distracted crowd. Although their show was short, and their music ge11erally not familiar, the sheer spirit and talent of the lead singer brought the.crowd to a surprised state of enjoyment. The band, now about to release 'their second album, did, however, nave a few problems both in the coherence of the specific lyrics, and the players~ seeming attitude of in- difference. Yet these points are understandabl~ to a new band, and hopeflllly not permanent for such a wealth of young talents. 10,000 Maniacs are to be ap- plauded f()r their effort and Natalie's beautiful voice is one that could test the acoustics, as she did during the show, of any music hall. Once the opening band had finished tile crowd need only wait a short time for the ap- pearance of the main at- traction. Suzanne Vega came out to a huge crowd response worthy of her increasing suc- cess, Her figure, as she ap- proached the microphone, was not that of a conventional pop star, she looked almost frail and carried herself with a certain degree of timidity and nervousn~s. That impression was quicldy lost, however, when Suzanne's voice filled the auditorium with the SOWlds of her a capeUa song, 'Tom's Diner'. Stuanne then continued by playing a varil!!ty of material, including rn.any- new songs off her recently rslease(f album entitled \ Standing\. These ne'iV So()ogs, while certainly being a fine continuation of the mni(jue Suzanne Vega style, were noticeably less polislled tilan those from her successfn.ldeb11t album. Ms. Vega's laC'k uf confidence in these s()ngs resulted in an overplay-i~g by the band that pollt~ted her crystalline voice and a.co!Ult1c guitar. Despite this oc<!a~~;ioa al difficulty Suzanne's C!Jntr-ol over favorites, such a.s 'The Queen and the Soldie~r'., ul!i 'Marlene on the Wall', wel'e excellent, and respre:JI!!ntative of an emerging pr!Jfessiollal performer. Along with Jllaying from a variety of her 111.aterial, Suzanne included what he~s increasingly becorns the trademark of her Uv-e :per- formance.. her story tellillg. These funny and re-servEd anecdotes succeed not only in amusing the crowd, but aJS<l in allowing them to see al.:ittle bit of the person behind the t;uitar. Just as Ms.Vega has llotieei:ibly improved her stage Jlr-esence, her band also seem.ed IIl()re accomplished in fr()nt o:f a crowd than in their earliter-.sllow at Union. This is a goolll :sif!n for Ms.Vega who has just. started on 'World Tour' that ·~ (Ofi- tinue into the late fall. 'To .{li:ve an idea of her hectic scl!sliilLe ~~~ this tour, Suzanne ha<l to Jea.11e Troy soon after her <!On~ert to play ~ afternoon. show'thE 11ext day. The end result of tile rtighi's entertainment wa:; vety positive, as the croYVi ma.de clear in their final ~pp]ause. Suzanne seems to be weU O!lller way to becoming a bo11a fide 'pop star'. While one le:ft .the show in deep appreeiatiioD of Suzanne's immense tc:~lilllt, the words 'pop star' loom as ominous reminders to tlle dangers of corru:nercial sacrifice that her collttiilual success may require. In tliis way, both 10,000 Maniac:s and Suzanne Vega are to be:adJnit-ed for their origin all and progressive styles of rnusie and performance. It is exa.ct;lrtllese kind of unique and aJ1dsttc in· terpretations that ~erve tc enhance music and it;S ad- vancement. The fact th;~t the show was sold out is ~· positive sign for this kind of re(!()gmi.tioll, and one can only hope .til11t botb bands will keep up tb~ ge»od work that they have 'SBI1ed- .~. Saratoga P eiforming Arts Center· 1987 Seas,on New Yor~ City Ballet : Ttaursday Matinees Special Ticket Prices Reserved-seats for the New York·City Bailers ~~~~&dt~ :r~~~~~.e~~~~B~t1 f:~da~~~~7o~nd Cllizens Lawn admlssionls-$2.50 DAVID SANBORN !CI 8i5 PM TOBE In celebrating our 22nd performance se(JS()n. we would lille to acknowledge the continuing support of the Great Western AL JARREAU (F) 8•15PM TO 8~ AHNIIUNCED ()())]/)) S!PJEJLJL IS COMING . . . Elllllr Ol!YBII'I, Vloltn COLE PORTER Wf~~~g~~ ~u~·Bolcom) BARBER· VIolin Concedo DVORAK S}lmphrmy N~. 9, \From /he Nuw·World\ Matinee 2 PM\ 'ff:Zfe~~%achl Ba//9/ N9W Ballet Faufare Evenlr~g· .8.15 PM La Sannam~ula N~w Sa/Jet Brahms/Hands/ Prices) THE GALA EV!mlf'lg 8:15PM Sijuaro Dance Of;us t9/The Dreamer • Cllaconne The Laundry ,Room 2329 Uan U·rank:en RueB, Schenectady OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 7 A.M.-9 P.M. MON.-FRI. 8 A.M.-8 P.M. SAT. & SUN. PHONE 3~2-8566 * Featuring SPEED QUEEN washers & dryers For Your Convenience... PICK· UP SERVICE Available for Wash Dry & Fold

CONCORDlENSJ.S, Mqy 7, 1987. Page_ 15 • \ • > ' • I '' ~ --·--- . ' --·--·--- ~ Arts; Briefs German Film Der Schritt Vom Wegel•A Step from The Right P~th is Gustav Gruendgen's fUm · adaptation of Theodore Fon- tane's 1895 novel, Effie Briest. ·The story is about a woman who. . is unfulfilled and bored, and · gives in to seduction and • commits adultery. Later, her husband discovers this and kills . her former lover and divorces · his wife. The movie is a por- , trayal of the type of society in . . the late 19th century. It will be shown on Tuesday, May 26 in · Humanities 014 at 7:00p.m. ' ·\Fundamentals of P11 otography\ On Tuesday and Thursday evenings from 6 to 9 p.m. \Fundamentals of Photography;' will be offered beginning May 12. A six-week course in drawing and painting will be offered on Saturdays from 10-12 p.m. beginning May 16. A ten-week class in rughooking will be taught on Wednesday evenings from 7 to 9 p.m. Class size is limited and some scholarships are available. For further in- formation, call 346-1262. REO Speed wagon REO Speedwagon will be perfonning with special guests . Joan Jett and the· Blackhearts at the Glens Falls Civic Center on Wednesday, May 27 at 7.:30 p.m. Tickets for the concert are $15.00 for reserve and festival seating and are on sale now at the Ciric Center Box OfficeJ all Ticketron outlets, and Drome Sound. For more information and ticket reservations call 798- 0202. lmprov. Course --- The Onion College Arts Department has scheduled a ''Mini-course in Movement Improvisation\ to ·be held on three Mondays from 7:30 to 9:30 ' p.m. in the Performing Arts Studio in the Arts Building. The sessions take place May 11, 18 and JWle 1. The fee ·for :the course is $25.00. For m:ore in- formatl.on please call the Arts: Department at 371l-6201. Vienna Vienna- Pictures of a town is about Vienna as it is today. It portrays the culture, social life, ·architecture, art trea~ures, history and economy of this . unique city. It wUI be of interest . to all who have visited or plan to visit Vienna. The film is in English. It will be shown on · Tuesday, May 12 in Humanities .014 at 7 p.m. Andrew Calhou.n Co·ntin:ues Tradition of Americain Folk ;By MARC BULSON Once again, I was the privileged recipient of two tickets to see a performance at the Caffe lena in Saratoga and, again, I was. not disap- pointed. Fate, by the way of a telephone call, threw me into a car, threw me down the high- way and threw me into the presence of the gifted poet· guitarist, Andrew Calhol.Ul. Calhol.Ul's music embodies the tradition of American folk with a slightly hal.UlUng Scottish flavor and powerful . poetic verse filled with abstract imagery. He was equally im- pressive p_laying instrumentals as he was singing a capella. ·When\ instrument and valee were combined the effect_ was _ spellbinding. CalhoUn's deep, rich Scottish baritone filled me with its power and clarity. But this description is, perhaps, inadequate and might only succeed in giving the reader the impression that the show waa rather heavy, slow and repressive. That, however, is qot the case-far from it. Calhoun's voice was complimented by the swift, light picking on his acoustic guitar and carried on the wings of the intelligent, witty lyrics that constitute the sturdy framework of every song. Like all things that are worthwhile it . takes a bit of work and careful listening to overcome the poetic obscurity of some of the imagery and metaphor in order to fully appreciate the meaning of the_ verse. But, in all in- stances, the digging is rewarded with a jewel of in- sight. . Most of the evening's songs covered subjects ranging from relationships to personal in- trospection to the state of the modern world and its in- stitutions. There is plenty of reference made to childhood experience and lost innocen~e, but with the hope that this void can be replaced with something happy, fulfilling and meaningfUl. One song which particularly stands out in my mem~ry is called \Spit From The Sky.\ It's a story of a young boy growing up who doesn't quite fit in with the rest of his peers. It's actually quite sad but is crammed with bits of everyday imagery that hit close to home (everyone knew a kid like this in high school) and infUses i.t with a comic pitch. I'll just quote a bit for the flavor. \Making fun of the way I play, the. things I say-The way I walk, the way l talk- My scraggly hair, the clothes I wear- I wanna, I wanna, I wanna go home- Leave me, leave me, leave me alone- Wen, tlte kid's got a problem I suppose - I saw him the other dai pickin • his nose- He wears forty-year-old clothes- And aU heeats forluncllis.Oreos. Now I tealize that this passage defies the weighty description of his verse tha.t I have given thus far, but it does serve to illustrate the other witty, silly side of Calhoun. Although his most powerful and insightful songs make you examine yow·~elf, and Calhol.Ul has a cache full ()f these, it is the . comic familiarity of a song like this that mak~s one laugh and that succeeded ill picking up the pace of the show. .Another refreshing aspect of the evening's performance was Calhoun's warm yet at times, biting, sense ofhwnor. Between songs and while tuning his guitar told stories, jokes and one-liners. One song, \Folksingers Are Boring,\ fo11nd its inspirational muse those among the student body at Ge!leseo. Very few students had sllowed up for the show and~ these that had must have been drinking embalming fluid-- there was no sllow of emotion, let alene enthusiasm. Certainly the best way to learn more about this per- former is to go out and buy one (or both) of his two albwns. Calhoun's latest release is entitled \Walk Me To The War\\. I can't belp but feel that I've fallen far short of doing this talented musician justice, so do yourself a favor and check bim out. Southside Johnny 1 s- havin' a party - alo11el ·THE ARTS c: ro E .... 0 (.'J ·m Q) 0 >- .0 s 0 .s::: Q_ David Bowie Bowie: T--e Man, The Myth, The Legend By JULIE STEINBERG David Jones alias Ziggy Stard11st alias Thin White Duke. David Bowie has gone througb many stages, many names and many characters, and ()OCe again, like a chameleon, has changed his angle for his latest album, \Never Let Me Down.\ D~vid. Bowie lias been in the spotlight for the ]last twenty years during which he has released thirty- three albwns. The manner in which he has influenced the sound and look ofrock has made him a cult hero. In 198&,. Bowie went back into the st.udio with a menage of musicians both old and new. Included in this collaboration are Carl()s Alomar, Carmine Rojas, Erdal Kizilcay, Earl Gardner and Peter Frampton on lead. guitar. \Never Let Me DowB,\ Bowie's 17th studio album, is a funky 80's meets 60's colleeti<Jn of songs which can best be described as \rock 'n' roll 'n' SDul\. Seeing how David Bowie has always been guided by havrng one foot in the future, this is .a radical departure for him. From the first beat of \Day In, Day Out\ to the last echo of \Bang Bang\ Never Let Me Down incorporates the wide scope of David Bowie's musical explorations including the spoken word in the introduction to \Glass Spiders\ and the Beatlesque pop beat of the sixties· in \Zeroes.\ Bowie's seductive sound in \Glass Spiders\ is similar to that ot \Cat People\ from his 1983 commercial success, Let's Dance. \Zeroes\ is a song which brings back the flavor of the sixties. Bowie tried to do this by using phrases of the sixties as part of his lyrics, such as \ ... letting the love in.\ The title track, \Never Let Me Down\ was inspired more by Corinne \Coco\ Schwab, Bowie's personal assistant than anyone else. The first single to be released from Never Let Me Down is ''Day In, Day Out\. Bowie's first tour in four years will begin in Jl.Ule, and will cover 100 cities on six continents. As for details, the only thing to ex- pect is the unexpected, but David Bowie would \never let me down.\ · we·lcome Parents . For Your Shopping Convenience The Campus Store Campus Store Umon Collegp SchPnE·cta~v N Y '.•JOil will be opened Saturday from 10:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. LooK for savings of up to 50°/o on Selected Merchandise

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, May 7, 1981 SCHOLARSHIPS The Kappa Delta Sorority announces the 1987-88 Jean Quine Kappa Delta Scholarship competition. Those students who are direct ~escendants Newman Picnic-For Union . students, faculty, staff and families, Monday, May 18, 5-7 pm, Hale House~Court Yard\ In case of rain Hale House Lower Lounge. .Please RSVP by Friday, May 15 to Sr. Joan's . Office 370-6087-leave name and . number attending. (either male or female) of a Ordination'-Saturday, May Kappa Delta member (mother, · 23 at 1:30 p.m. in the Cathedral grandmother, etc.) may apply. · of the Immaculate Con~eption, Applicant,s must be fulltime · Eagle Street & Madison students at any postsecondary Avenue. Friar Paul Reinhardt institution in the U.S.A. will be· ordained by Most Undergraduates must be in Reverend Howard J. Hubbard. their sophomore ,or junior A buffet luncheon will follow at years, graduates must be BisbopMaginH.S.Allmembers matriculated in a graduate . · of the Union Conununity are . program by JUile 1, 1987. The . welcome to attend. Please selection of the ~cholarsnip RSVP to Sr. Joan by May 10 so . recipients will be based on ·. she can send a head count to the academic achievement and · Franciscan Friars at St. financial need. Awards may be . Anthony's-on-Hudson, Rens- for as much as $1,000. selaer and arrange tran~ Application deadline is June 1, sportation. 1987. For applications and more information contact KD . Scholarship Committee, c/01 · Folk. Group-All singers and Linda Klein Russell, 21 · musicians interested in being Carriage Road, Delmar, NY llart of the Music Ministry at the 2024. Telephone (518)439-6~52. · 7:.30 p.m. Liturgy at St. John's may meet with Friar Phil at CLUB NEWS The Campus Protestant Ministry of Union College will host a visiting preacher for the Chapel Service on Sunday,. May 10 at 10:15 a.m. in Memorial Chapel, as part of Parents Weekend at the College. That afternoon, Reverend Chakoian will lead an informal discussion on \Young Adults: 6:30 p.m. in the Church to · rehearse. Tutorial Program-Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten, Computer Math and Library Aides as well as tutors for Math and Reading on a one to one. Please contact Lisa Mercugliano Fox 252-268-4183. Shut-Ins-Any Union Student who wishes to visit a shut-in regularly during these spring days please contact Mark Slaga, South 102, 386-4480~ CLASSIFIEDS FOR SALE.: Medium-sized dresser pull-out couch, platfonn (three feet high) for double mattress. All in very good condition. Will take best offer. CALL NOW! l! 34G-5349. Professional Resume Ser- vice-writing plus typing cover letters, copies. FREE CON~ St1LTATION. 105 W()lf Road, Room No. 21, Tel. 439-9065. Furnished apartments to sublet· June 20to Aug 20. Upper Union St., 2 bedroom, garage, . $325 -month\ Mike 39a-:8191 after 4:30p.m. Stereo for sale • Realistic clarinet 98\ compact unit with working automatic turntable, AM-FM stereo radio, dust cover and 2 speakers. Built in cassette needs repair $60- Call Donna at 663f) days. 81' Honda Civic 2 dr. hat- chback. AM-FM stereo cassette. Very good condition. Priced to sell. Call 346-2711, evenings. LARGE 3 bdrm. apartment. 5 minute walk to campus. $350 per mo. plus util. 372-2723. Leave message if not borne. Fibn Committee presents: 5/8 thru 5/10 Crocodile Duildee at 7, 9, 11. 5/12 The Year of Living Dangerously at 7, 9, 11. Tickets are available at the Old . Chapel ticket boothfor$1.00 Anew film shoWing an ;:1ctual abortion and interviews with . fonner abortionists. A ne:w perspective on the abortion issue. · Thurs., May 21, at 7:30pm in SS016. Sponsored by the Union : College Pro#ve Forum .. mt.entnttlt' s <!rlenners & {{tailors 1fl.t~. • 1714 UN'IiQN STf~EET (518) 374-6647 0 ·'· \ I' \?.~ l\& c.~~ Specia.tizing in c,Jt.S~ ~\'l1~ Suede& Leather Cleaning o\St.O Shirts & B'louses Laundered ·zippers ~eplaced- Jeans Shortened C:har:ge Accounts Welcome Union College Dance Ensemble L presents J Spring Concert-Parent's Weekend Saturday, May 9-5:30; Sunday, May 1 0~:00 Performing Arts Studio/ Arts Building FREE ADMISSION Refreshments following Perfonnances . . . Who Are They and How Do They Relate To The \Church\ from 1:30-3 p.m. in Milano Lounge. All are invited to participate in this afternoon program. PEANU:TS@ by Charles M. S·chulz Patents' Weekend Masses at St. John's-Saturday Vigil at 4 pm, Sunday at 8:45, 10:00, 11:15 am. and 12:30 pm. Sr. Joan will be at the door to greet Union students and their families and all are invited to coffee hour in the school hall following Sunday morning Masses. GIMME A BREAK, MA'AM .. ASK .ME SOMETI-\ING I M1.6HT KNOW ... S\-ZO Ti-\!NK, MAAM! TI-\INK! ,. - I il }1 t

., ' 'l 'J l ,, CONCORDIENSIS, -·May 7, 198'! Pag.e 17 PERSOJVA:LS Since you DON'T play RUGBY, you don't need my JERSEY. I do. Please return, no questions asked to ADPhi (tonight would be soon enough). Women Ruggers,.,- Awesome game last . Satur• day. Get psyched to plar the Albany- \women.\-Juli:e and Oksana Space r want to talk to you about last night. Learn how to cradle like a girl. Dear Sis: Remember 2 things, incest is best and you cE;ID 't leave Montreal without coming there! ACROSS 1 Susan Saint James role 5 \L.A.~\ 8 Robert or Fran 12 Part of QED 13 \--- My Children•· '14 Style 15 NBA's Archibald 16 He's_ Sam Clegg II: init. 1·r A Stevens 18 Erwin or Whitman 19 Fear 21 Hoosier St. ~,;. ~ \ 22 Martin or Stuart ·· 24 Milburn Stone role 26 Derek or Hopkins 28 Italian preposition 29 Rory ~ 33 King or Arkm 35 Bill-paying time, Rallying Tallies as of Week Si~. . Spring term: Rockefeller - 5, · Sportney - 3 (one mental), Glynner training at one. There you go! P.S. Rockefeller, Jeanne Dixon You're not! Happy \4\ ping - ping. You're p~yched, Big Guy Love,B~ Hey drunken Irishman, who lives in the subway station, \Will you be my backdoor man.\ ! .BLM, Touby. Sorry I missed your bday. How many dead in Sri Lanka? -the guy acrossthe hall Debbie C- . . ELEPHANT that's what you So Italians are better huh? I'll · ··are! let you know- oh year- Mr. Mr. Wend,...Yes, please move in, I always wanted a rooii1Illate! Matt is: H-0-T· OKS Done much barking lately? -J Hey Pam, Julie G.-Heck of a throw, but could you leave your arm at- tached? Sam Donaldson says, \We Kate---.You academic animal! · can prevent Date Rape.'' That's right, you Kate Gaffney! But officer she said she was 19. But we love you anyway. for short 36 Alaina Reed role 37 Winston Reker! 56 Bard's river 57 Sgt., for one 58 Augury 8 White House .monogram 9 Baseball's Berra · 10 Arabian gulf . 11 Silly one 35 Ms. Sommer 38 Diana or Tracey 39 Ms. Farr~w ' rof~ . 39 M11e: abbr. .\:; ;:, •. ..,,,e: abbr. 4 'i 1\0rean soldier 42 Blair on \The Facts of Life\ 44 Dentists' org. 47 Alabama dty 49 John Larroquette role · 52 Jeff on \The Colbys·· 54 Not: pref1x 55 \Then - Bronson· 59 Relax 60 Bilk 61 Latin being · DOWN 1 Berry and Kercheval 2 Smell-- 3 Ryan's daughter 4 French summer 5 William Sanderson role 6 Toward shelter 7 He was Insp. Dan Delaney: init. 17 Billy~ 19 Joanne- 20 Davjd Canary rote 23 He's Lou Grant 25 Actor Conn~lly 26 Sheep sound 2,7 Aged 2.9 CoquettiSh 30 Hawaiian b1rd 31 Avat! 32 Rorem or Sparks 34 Commercial 42 Alphabetical sequenCe · 43 Julie or Maud 44 Partly open 45 Mr. Garroway 46 Andy's radio pal 48 \Life With ,...\ 50 She's Audrey Hardy 51 Hawaiian goose 53 .Insect study: abbr. 55 Iowa College 57 No good: abb~. Good looking, desperate Army cadet seeks correspondence from Union girls. Writeto: M.A. Ryan, Ilox: 4484,. West Point, NY 10997. The type to bring home to mother. Qualifications-: Boy Scout, alcoholic, honor student, pervert. To my trouble twin with a capital \T\, please get your hormones in gear because I can't handle it. I just got someone worried and won- dering, didn't I? To the Economical Man, Get horizontal. Try it, you'll like it! · To the Man with the \Master Plan\ (Flve-year of cow-se). Stop looking so proud--although both of us know you have reason to. To the only one with True Strength of Character (C.W.) Pat B.- Didn't realize we are losing you-Shootin the Boot W<ln 't be the same without you. D- Photon, What's in a name? Maybe ears are the real im- portance of a person. Keep smiling because Freshman is not the name of a disease. Luvya, Me Jeff, ltold J en not to put the rat , . poiso11 in with the vanilla shake, but she insisted on giving you an early birthday present. Happy 19tti· on 'Saturday!! It's been a whole year, Gamma Phi. Happy an- niversary! We're looking for- ward to the years to come. LoveinPKE Your new sisters Gamma Phi Beta class CJf 1987 Get psyched for senior celebratioi:J! If there's grass on the infield, play little league ball. KATHLEEN,_ Sorry about not leaving a note! You know I love you, you trou de balle~! Better late than never! -L AMK- I just wanted to say that I'm sorry about this week, and this term! I promise that the summer will be better! ILoveyou-E Howard-- Thanks for an amazing weekend- but where are you? I miss you! · Delta Upsilon- Thanks for the clean cars. Delta Gamma Since all of us have threatened to put in this personal, but no one has done it yet, I will. \We're comin' in late,. and we're comin' in loud!'' To the spontaneous road- trippers: \Precious and few are the moments we four can share.'' Happy free Radicle, Aoowa! I'm only 99 per<:ent sure who the owner of that mysterious blue tie was because with you there are no ob- viously's. frishy (she's not dead just in remission) _ P.S. What's that new hair color identification test to detect intoxication? We absolutely want to ravish you in those cute jogging shorts ·(Was that too forward of usi) To the 6-month piano wonder: Now that you're 19 and almost over the hill, we're not sure you can handle rumiing on Mondays and Fridays. P .S. We foW1d a mysterious blue tie. To our \freshman friends\ of lower lever: We feel your blushing ability has escalated to an all-time high; speaking of high, we think you should sit down, lean back, and ... ~~~~~ We an~ looking for students who want to earn some fun, easy money! Students who would like to work on ReUnron Weekend (June 12 & 13), please stop by the Alumni Off.ice or call Sharon or Kerry at 61 68. I ~ '' ;:o: ~: •' RANK GALLO & ~)~ SON FLORIST HOURS: M-Sat 9 am..;6 pm S~n. 9 am-'1 pm 346-6171 •' . 856 c·rane St. Schenectady WIRE SERVICE f.\ ''Wil\''' ...... '• ..

Page 18 CONCORDlENSIS, May 7, 1981 SPORTS TALK arnntnrbiertsis SPO R r-s . . . . Capture Capital District Cup Question: Who wou:ld you like to se Sugar Ray leonard fight next? Laxmen Win 3 in a Row Photographs and Interviews by Alan Klapper Steve Konlian ;87 \he should fight Hagler again. He took his title away so he has the obligation to give Hagler a chance!\ Char:Ue Slotnik '88 \Andre the Giant, because he is unquestionably the finest conditioned athlete in the world.\ By C.P .S.I.S. The Union College men's lacrosse team finally seems to bave settled down this season, and as a result have inslU'ed themselves of their third con·· secutive winning season by taking three games in a row. After coming off their ex- citing overtime victory over Hamilton last weekend, Union faced rival RPI for the Capital District Cup. lf the Dutchmen defeated RPI they would hold ()n to the cup won last year, by remaining undefeated in the Capital District area. This, indeed, was the case, as Union pouncedovet a lackluster RPI in RPrs last game of the season. The game started out qui.cly as Union pumped in four goals in the first half while shutting out RPI completely. This lead turned out to be the winning margin, as both Unio11 and RPI traded two goal~ apiece to cap the final score at 6-2. Although . a ~loppy game overall, it marked the second consecutive victory and solidified theit defense o'f the Capital District Cup. On offense for the lax:men, mi<Hielder Dave DeBerna.dinis and Tony DaRin, an attackman, both had,two goals apiece. Phil Horn had a goal and an assist1 Pete Cottier pUnched' in a goal, while Andrew Ross and Len LaMonica capped the scoring with tW<J assists each. Defensively, Jolm Thorne had another outstanding game, posting an impressive 88 save percentage. In front of him, Greg Leahey, Gary Cornick, Mark Leyton, Chuck Weber and Steve Garnett all had fine games .. To punctuate tbe vic- tory, Gary Cornick had a vicious bit at midfield. Union's next game was to prove to much more exciting. The louqnen faced a tqugh Colgat\' team at Colgate this past weekend. In another spectacular finish reminiscent of last Saturday's Hamilton victoty, the Dutchmen defeated the Red Raiders with 19 seconds remaining in the game to win 8- 7. Union, who at one point was down by six goals to three, pulled together as a team to · outscore Colgate 4-1 in the fourtb quarter for the victory. Once again leadi:pg the scoring was the team's co· scor.ing leader, Tony DaRin, as he pumped in tbree goals. LaMonica had two goal$ and an assist while Horn, &lss and CottiEr each tallied a score. Defe11sive stalwart Cornick also added a fine assist .. The entire defensive 1lrlit had an outstanding .game, shutting out the Raiders down the stretch. John Thorne, all· American candidate, posted a fantastic 70.8 save percentage. Union finishes up their season this week versus Hartwick on their home turf. The1axmen are looking forward to ending their season with five consecutive victories to finish at a respectable 7-4 record. Jay Grossman '87 \Jim Quinn!\ Amazing! Women's Rugby. Wins by Samuel Beckett .Y~oduc,.d ~~ 11.~ UUHitm ~o-~~~~e .__1/oun.leia\lr~ .9'1t~dncl ByH.W. Contrary to popular opinion, the women's rugby team does bave the ability to defeat other ~quads. This fact was proven as the ruggers troWlced a sociable Hamilton team by the score of 16-0. The entire team played up to its potential. The game on Saturday appeared to be the first really enjoyable match this season. The events of the game un- fDlded as follows. One minute into the match Kathy Hawke ran for 30 yards to score the first of Union's several tries. A~ the women continued to dominate, Kristin Nelson outran several defenders to earn a try. Partially into the second half,. Kathy H. scored again off a great pass from Leslie Rubin. Jen Wagner and Jackie were very successful in ............... .-.JfJ.-.JJ_._.....,_._._._._._._ ...................................... ~JJ ... • GRADUATING SENIORS SO NOW YOU'RE GONNA GO TO WORK - HERE'S HOW TO DRIVE NOW PAY.LATER! Prior Credit Historv NOT NECESSARY! $0 = MONEY DOWN! NO Payments Till_ August! SEE Salesman for Details CALL: 438-8461 ALBANY DODGE AT HOME OF THE 77 0 CENTRAL AVE. PROTECTION PLAN \THE TEAM THAT CAN'T BE BEAT' moving the ball upfield; both of them almost scored in the second half. Union continued to rule the game, although Hamilton came close to scoring. The final try of the match occurred when Union won a Hamilton scrwn-down. Kathy H. once again picked the ball up and touched it over the try line. Credit for the victory should not go. to one person but the entire team. Uni<ln will play its last game of the season on Saturday against the Albany \women\, a club team. Bring your parents to the game for an eyeo()pening experience. All and any support would be greatly appreciated as the girls' team attempts to win once again. SW.IMMING AND DIVING TEAM ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING Wednsday, May 13 at 5:30p.m . in the Pool Balcony Anyone interested in coming out for next year's Men's or Women's Swimming and Diving Teams should attend. If you cannot attend the meeting please contact Susan Bassett x6484 or drop by the pool office. GREEK WEEK MCMLXXXV/1 is coming - May 20 - 23 JOIN UNION CREW ~~e Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia, Saturday, May 9 Alumni Tent and a fullday of racing await you. Contact Ted Eveleth 377-9229 B R N c H A r~warding ., • 7 5 0 Sr. Citizens 4 95 Child: Under 12 Every Sunday, you can enjoy a dt\licious champagne brunch serw'd in the refreshing atmosphere of our Brass Lantern Restaurant. So rome and relax over brunch at our Ramada - when we've got a new world for you. RAMADA\ INN 450 Nott Str.eet, Schtnectady, NV Call for reservations (~IS) 370-7151.

Page 18 CONCORDlENSIS, May 7, 1987 SPO.RTS TALK ... Capture Capital District Cup Question: Who would ycu like to see Sugar Ray leonard fight next? Laxmen Win 3 in a Row Photographs and Interviews by Alan Klapper Steve Konlian ;~n \he should fight Hagler again. He took his title away so he Ius the obligation to give Hagler a chance!\ Charlie Slotnik • ~~~ \Andre the Giant, because he is unquestionably the finest conditi<med athlete in the world.\ By C.P .S.I.S. The Union CollegE men's lacrosse team finally seems to have settled down thi:; seasOn, and as ~ result have insured themsel:11es of their tlli.:rd con·· secutive winning se.ason by taking three games iill. a row. After coming off thoeir ex- citing o-vertime victory over Hamilton last weekend~ Union faced rival RPI for tb.te Capital District Cup. If the Dllichmen defeated RPI they would hold on to the cup won last y-ear, by remaining undefeated in the Capital District area. This, indeed, was the case, as Unionp()unced over a l-ackluster RPI in BPI's last game of the season. The game started out quicl:y as Union pumpetlln four goals ill the first half while shutting out RPI completely. This lead turned out i() be the winning margin, as botll Union and HPI traded ti'Vo goals apiece tCJ cap the final seore at S-2. Although a s_lop:py game overall, it marked the Second C()nsecutive victory and solidified their defense of the Capital District Cup. On offense for the laxmen, midfielder Dave DeBernadinis and Tony DaRin, an attackman, both had two goals apiece. Phil Horn had a goal and an assist, Pete Cottier punched in a goal, while Andrew Ross and Len LaMonica capped the scoring with two assists each. Defensively, John Thorne had another outstanding game, posting an impressive 88 save percentage. In front of him, Greg Leahey, Gary Cornick, Mark Leyton, Chuck Weber and Steve Garnett all had fine games. To punctuate the vic- tory, Gary Cornick had a vicious hit at midfield. Union's next game was to pr(!ve to much more exciting. The laJqnen faced a tough Colgati.\ team at Colgate this past weekend. In another spectacular finish reminiscent of last Saturday's Hamilton victory, the Dutclunen defeated the Red Raiders with 19 seconds remaining in the game to win 8- 7. Union, who at one point was down by six goals to three, pulled together as a team to outscore Colgate 4-1 in the fourth quarter for the victory. Once again leading tbe scoring was the team's co- scoring leader, Tony DaRin, as he pwnped in three goals. LaMonica had two goals and an assist while Horn, Ross and Cottier each tallied a score. Defensive stalwart Cornick also added a fine assist. The entire defensive unit had an outstanding game, shutting out the Raiders down the stretch. John Thorne, all- American candidate, posted a fantastic 70.8 save percentage. Union finishes up their season this week versus Hartwitk (In their home turf. The laxmen are looking forward to ending their season with five consecutive victories to finish at a respectable 7-4 record. Ja:y Grossman '87 \J irn Quin11!\ Amazing! Women's Rugby Wins by Samuel Beckett . t'wdur~d Jy fA,. .J.Univtt 'follt-fje , lloun/~Ja11l.::. /fltldntl rftamalir ('a.?anejalion ~--- ByH.W. Contrary to popular .opinion, the women's rugby team does have the ability to defeat other squads. This fact was pr()ven as the ruggers trounced a sociable Hamilton team by the score of 16~. The entire team played up to its potential. The ~arne on Saturday appeared to be the first really enjoyable match this season. The events of the game un- folded a:; follows. One minute into the match Kathy Hawke ran for 30 yards to SC()re the first of Union's several tries. A~ the w()men contillued to dominate, Kristin Nelson outran several defen!lers to earn a try. Partially into the second half, Kathy II, scored again off a great pass from Leslie Rubin. Jen Wa~Jner and Jackie were very successful in GRADUATING SENIORS SO NOW YOU'RE GONNA GO TO WORK- HERE'S HOW TO DRIVE NOW PAY LATER! Prior Credit Historv NOT NECESSARYI a MONEY DOWN! NO Payments Till August! SEE Salesman for Details CALL: 438-8461 ALBANY DODGE AT HOME OF THE 77 0 CENTRAL AVE. PROTECTION PLAN \THE TEAM THAT CAN'T BE BEAT\ moving the ball upfield; both of them almost scored in the second half. Union continued to rule the game, although Hamilton came close to scoring. The final try of the match occurred when Union won a Hamilton serum-down. Kathy H. once again picked the ball up and touched it over the try line. Credit for the victory should not go to one person but the entire team. Union will play its last game of the season on Sat11rday against the Albany \women\, a club team. Bring your parents to the game for an eye-opening experience. All and any support would be greatly appreciat~d as the girls' team attempts to win once again. SWIMMING AND DIVING TEAM ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING Wednsday, May 13 at 5:30p.m . in the Pool Balcony Anyone interested in coming out for next year's Men's or Women'~ Swimming and Diving Teams should attend. If you cannot attend the meetmg please contact Susan Bassett x6484 or drop by the pool office. GREEK WEEK MCMLXXXV/1 is coming - May 20 - 23 JOIN UNION CREW ~~e Dad Vail Regatta in Philadelphia, Saturday, May 9 Alumni Tent and a full day of racing await you. Contact Ted Eveleth 377-9229 B R N c H A rewarding a • 7 50 s ('\ . . r. ,JtiZens 4 95 Child. Vnder 12 Ewry Sunday, you can enjoy a delici ouH hampagne brunch sl'r\'t'd in the refreshing a tmosphert' of our Brass Lantern Restaurant. So come and relax over brun< h <It our Ramada - whnc \'l.'t'\r got ant'\\' world for you. RAMADA' INN 450 Nott Street, Schenectady, N'\' Call for reservations (518) 370-7151. ! .!

7, 1987 I' Page 19 Athlete of the Week .. This past weekend the (,Inion College Women'$ Track Team traveJled to SUNY Cortland to participate In the 1987 Div-ision D'I NYSWCAA outdoor track and field championships. The team did very well and placed 9th out of 15 teams. However, more exciting thant the team's performance was the individual performances of several. of Union's fem~le athletes. Jen Diorio, JuUe Anderson, .Efieen Brady, Julie Halpern, Clpire Glnsburg-Lytel and Jen. Lee all set Union College records with Diorio setting two. The per- formance .of ,these ladies has earned them the honor of \Athletes of .the Week\. Senior ·Jen · Dilorio led the scoring \for Union with her r~cord setting efforts in both the discus and. javelin. In the javelin Dilorio threw her spike 37.45 meters ·which was good enouglt to achieve second place and anew Union College record. Jen's discus throw also set a school record when it landed at the lo5'6\ mark, Julie Halpern, also a senior captured fourth place in the 400 meter hurdles and recorded a r.ecord time of 65.8 seconds. The mile-relay team of Hi\1pern, sophomores Julie Anderson and Claire Ginsburg-Lytle and junior Jen ~e joined forces. to take fourth place in the meet and set a Union record of 4:10.8. Fresh- man Eileen Brady didn't place in t e meet but rn;anaged to set a Union reoord · by rlUllling a 5:05.2 in the 1~0 meters. The efforts of this week's \Athletesofthe Week\ .have not only shone during the last week, but through() ut the whole season. The women's track team has once again had a winning season and this week's performance by the members of the team is a ,poerfect ending to an outstanding season. Mohlar, Reed Lead Dutchmen Runners By MEN'S TRACK TEAM The Union Men's Track Team completedits final preparations for its state meet last week, hosting the Union open last W~dnesday · and travelling to Worcester for the WPI relays on Saturday. Both meets r~u).ted in some outstanding per- formances. The Union Open was only supposed to be a development trackmeet, a lowkeytuneup for the atate meet. However, when the 800 meter field lined up at the starting line, it became much mor~ than that. Facing off were Union~s 1986 outdoor state ch;:impion Rob Mohlar and SUNY Albany's 1987 indoor national champ Vernon Viller. As expected, the two put c,m quite a show under the Ughts of the 'turf. Miller led the race from the gun,_ hitting the 400 meter mark in 56 second&, as he and Mohlar quickly pulled away from th rest of the field. Then, to shouts from the crowd and his team- mates, Mohlar pulled even and passed Miller with 200 meters to go. From there it was a spring for the finish line, with Moh}ar holding off Miller. all the way. Mohlar clocked a 1:53.0 time to Miller's 1:53.3. As exciting as the race was, it was not their last, ~s the two will probably match up again· this weeekend ·at the state meet. Although Mohlar's win was unquestionably the high point .of tne meet, several other athletes had excellent days. Junior Jim LeBrou's titne of 10:02 in the 3000. steeplechase led the way fer the Dutchmen. LeBrou won the even easily taking over a minute off his previous best which he ran as a freshman. Terry Rathwell continued his strong showing in the javelin, throwing it 51.46 meters to take second. Sophomore Steve Hayes also picked up a second place, running the 400 meter dash in 52.0. Spencer Warnick and Doug Tulley added strong thirdS in the 5000 meters (16:53.8) and 200 meter dash (24.9 seconds), reSJ?ectively. - Although most of the women's team skipped the Union Open to prepare for their state .met:t, several team members did ~ compete, and they· too fared quite well against their com- petition. Freshman Beth Jewett continued to shine in the weight events as she picked up two .first places. Jewett threw the shot 31 'feet 6 inches and then came back to take the discus by over 8 feet, tossing it 98 feet, 1 inch. Shirley Cagle also picked up a victory, as she led Union to a 1- 2-3 sweep of the 400 meter dash. Cagle clocked a time of 69.8 seconds, followed by Jen Regan's 74.6 and Danielle Farans' 76.8. ·Farans later added another third place, this time in the 200 meter dash, which she ran in 35.0 seconds. Union also swept the distance events with Sherry Cargile takingthe 3000 meters in 11 :55 and Martha Demany winning the 1500 easily in 5:42. The track team was not nearly as successful at the WPI relays, though once again several athletes turned in outstanding performances. Running against several of tl:J:e powers of the East again, the Dutchmen could only manage one third .pla~e, that coming in the .sprint moedley relay. That relay, however, had a phenomenal race, as each member ran ai or close to his best. Doug 'TEJ]ley and Steve HaY,es led off with. splits of 22.9 and 23;7 for the 200. Rob Mohlar followed with a 50.2 second split for the 400. M~blar then handed off to· Mike Ree:d, who anchored the relay with a.time of 1 :56.7 for 800 meters. R:e~d's.split for the relay was a !HJrsonal best by almost a second, and, even more incredibly, came only a couple of hours after he ran a 1:58.3 in the 3200 meter relay. Mohlar also ran on that relay, where he turned in a 1:56.6. Although ll() other relays placed for the' Dutchmen, all' ran quite con:1petitively. The 3200 meter rela:y, led by Mohlar and Reed, r3o a 8:11.1. The 4x100 meter .relay of Bill Craig, Hayes, Tu[Jey and Rich Pisciotta added a quick 46.09 second time. The 4x200 meter relay of Tulley, Pisciotta, Hayes and ,Jeff Simkins, rounded out Union's per- formance. Th&t relay, behind Hayes' 23.17 split and Pisciotta's 23.33 second split, turned in a fimal time of 1:36.8. The men'strack team will be looking to cap off their season this weekend at the state meet at Buffalo State. With Mohlar and Reed formidable threats in the 800 and. steeplechase· respectively,. and with an im- proved crew l)f sprinters, the team will be looking to do well. After the st3te meet, Union returns home to finish off the season at the Union Spring Classic. • WomenTracksters Shines at Div.III Championships By WOMEN'S TRACK TEAM The 1987 Division III NWSWCAA outdoor track and field· championship was held this past weekend at SUNY Cortland. The Union College womenfs track team sent eight women to this championship ineet;. wh'ich proved to be their most successful championship ever. Many personal bests and school records were recorded as ·uruon scored 17 points, pUtting them in the ninth position overall of the 15 teams com· peting .. Of thOse scoring for Union;· senior Jen Dilorio finished. in second place and set a new school record in the javelin, with a throw of 37.45 meters. Diorio also set a new $Chool record in the discus with a throw of 105'6\. Senior Julie Halpern set a new school record finishmg fourth in the 400 meter hutdles With a time of 65.8 seconds. Sophomore .Lorie Anderson went to finals in the 400 hurdles, running a time of 69.6 and finishing in sixth place. Anderson also ran a personal best in the semi-finals, with a time of 68.7. The final points · scored by ·the Union women were scored by the mile relay team. Halpern, Anderson, sophomore Claire Ginsberg Lytl~ and junior Jenny Lee ran a time of 4: 10~8, providing them with a new school record as well as the fourth position overall. Others who qualified for the meet but did not score points were: freshman Eileen Brady who reset the school record in the 1500 meters With a time of 5:05.2, ahd sophomore Maria Leonard whO ran her first 10,000 meter run· (Wildcard) and finished with a respectable time of 45:21. Lee also ran the 800 meters, in which She placed ninth. Special congratUlations go to an the members of the team as well as coach Russ Ebbets. all of Whom havevworked very liard over the years to make a mark in women's track and field. 1986-87 has pr()ven to be a highly successful yEar., for women's track. The t~am has reached new heights .as they have had two conse~utive winning seasons, and many runners have · qualified for the NYSWCAA and ECAC meets. This coming weekend,. I May 6 and 7th, the team travels to Bowdoin C()llege in Maine, where they wil1 compete in the ECAC's. . SU:P:PORT. UNION SPORTS <!Lnn,cnrllitttsis SPORTS Over the past fev· weeks there has been much di~ussion on the issue · of .paying a baseball player in excess of $2 million a year. Sports IDulitY-ated gave an itemized list of every player in the Major Leagues and his exact salary. In adtlition, it also Usted players wh~ are disabled, retired or traded and still receive some sollt of salary. However, these lists are misleading in the w~y that they make it look as if every team just gives away large contracts whenever they waJJt. This is not true. Let me first say that I believe that if a tEam wants to pay a player $1 million · or $2 million, that is tlleir right and fans should not get so upset that it is such a large amount of money. Take the 'l'im Raines situation, for ex:mple. Raines missed all of sprillg training and the beginning ~fthis season before rejoining tlu Montreal Expos last week:e11d when they played the Mets. ThE Expos are a typical, medioere team that floats around follrth or fifth place very year, occasionally making a surge t;() first place which usually onlylc:~sts about a week of so at the fni)St. Yet, this past week, Rahes signed a multi-year contract for ap- proximately $5 nlillion. In his first game back hE llad a triple, a single, a wall ltlld a game winning grand slam in the loth inning. The followillg day, he hit another homer. Tllis one oc· curred in the first inning and NOI IN THE: BOX SCORE Mark Zimme.rman .proved to be all the E:xpos would need as tlley again beat the Mets. Now, bow can you say he doesn;t deserve the money? Great players bring fans to the ballpark. The Expos are not going to win tile pennant, but just having Tim. Raines on the team is going t() bring fans to the ballpark, .!lome and away. The same is true for Don Mattingly, Gary Carter, Eddie Murray, Jim Ri€!e and all the other players wllo border on or around the $2; million mark. Let'.s face it, tile majority .()f people ·at Union College ·are probably here $ that they ean get an educatio.n find a job, and become filthy rich.. Now, sure, some of you are saying I just want to be happy and have rny health and family,. etc. But just think of how happy you could be with $2 million. Don .Mattingly deserves what lte makes (just under $2 mill). He has provEd himself to be ()ne of the best players in the g.arne of baseball .. If you were to compare a baseball team to a company, which in some ways it is, y()u would see the similarities. An employee in a company starts off at a base salary and as 1Ie becomes older Mid .more suc- cessful his salary increases steadily. The same applies t() baseball palye:l's. No matter what the reason for the owner of a team paying a player a large amount of morne:y, it is up t() them and it sho!!ldnot even buy an issue the wa.Y it has become recently. · SPORTSWEEK 5/7 - 5/t.t THURSDAY 5/7 Baseball at Williams Softball at Norttt Adams Women's Lacross.e vs. Williams Men's Tennis at Williams FRIDAY5/8 Baseball.at Ho~hester Men's Track. and Women's Track!ECAC Meet SATURDAY 5/9 Baseball at Hobart (2) Men's Lacrosse-vs. Alumni MONDAY 5/11 Baseball at RPI' 3:0() 3:30 4:0() 3:0() 3:00 5/8 and 5!9 . 1 :00 . 4:00 .

CONCORDIENSJS, May 7~ 1987 Page 19 Athlete of the Week .. 1bls lliiSt weekend the Union College 'Women's Track Team travelled ,to SUNY Cortland to partlejpa1e in the 1987 Division III NY\\SWCAA o11tdoor track a11d ne,III. champi~»nships. l'he team did very well and placed 9th ()tit .o:f 15 teams. However, m«JI\e e:Keiting tbant the team's peJfClE:'IIUB..lll!e was the individual perfm:man~es of several of Unlo~tJs female athletes. Jen Die~ri(}, J11Ue Andersoll, Eileen BI\acly Julie Halpern, Cla:ire Gbts&111:1g-Lytel and J en Lee all set llllillll College records with Di4lrb setting two. T:he per- fol1ID~nC!e of these ladies has ea,rned them the honor of \:Athletes of the Week\. Senior Jen Dilorio led the scoring for Union with her record setting efforts in both the discus antl javelin. In the javelin Dilorio threw her spike 37.45 meters which was good enough to achieve second place and a new Union College record. Jen's discus throw also set a school record when it landed at the 105'6\ mark. Julie Halpern, also a senior captured fourth place in the 400 meter hurdles and recorded a record time of 65 ;6 seconds. The mile-relay team of H~lpern, sophomores Julie Anderson and Claire Ginsburg-Lytle and junior Jen Lee joined forces to take fourth place in the meet and set a Union record of 4: 10.8. Fresh- man Eileen Brady didn't place in t e meet but managed to set a Union record by rWllling a 5:05.2 in the 1500 meters. The efforts of this week's \Athletes of the Week'' have U()t only shone during the last week, but throughout the who}e season. The women's track team has once again had a winning season and this week's performance by the membei\s of the team is a perfect ending to an outstanding season. Mohlar, Reed Lead Dutchmen Runners Ry BEN'S TRACK TEAM The trnionMen'sTrack Team com:pletedits finalpreparations for its st.ate meet last week, hostin£ the Union open last Werlnes(}ay and travelling to Worcesterfor the WPI relays on Satwday. Both meets resulted in soJDe outstanding per- foi.inaJ!Ce;S. 'Ihe llnivn Open was only supposed .to be a development trac:k :meet. a low key tune up for the statE meet. However, when the fl~~ meter field lined up at the ,sta.rtiag line, it became muell ll!l()J.le than that. Facing off -wer-e Union's 1986 outdoor stateeh~pion Ro~ Mohlar and SUN\¥\ AJbany's 1987 indoor natiollal cllamp Vernon Viller. As e~pEC!ted, the two put on quite~ ::sb.ow under the lights of the \tur:f. Miller led the race from the gun,..llitting the 400 meter mark in $ secollds, as he and Mohlar quield.y pulled away from th rest of tlte field. Then, to shouts from 1hie crowd and his team- mates, ]\{()hlar pulled even and passedniiller with ZOO meters to go. Fron there it was a spring for the :finish line, with Mohlar holdhg off Miller all the way. Molllar clocked a 1:53;0 time to MillEr's: 1:53.3. As exciting as the JJ!ICE was, it was n(lt their last,. as the two will probably matd1 mp again this weeekend at the !;tate meet. Altllo11gh Mohlar's win was unquest.ionably the high point of thernEet, several other athletes had exc:ellent days. Junior Jim LeBl()U\s time of 10:02 in the 3000 steeplEchase led the way f6r thE ])11tchmen. LeBrou won the even easily taking over a minute off his previous best which he ran as a freshman. Terry Rathwell continued his strong showing in the javelin, throwing it 51.46 meters to take second. Sophomore Steve Hayes also picked up a second place, running the 400 meter dash in 52.0. Spencer Warnick and Doug Tulley added strong thirds in the 5000 meters (16:53.8) and 200 meter dash (24.9 seconds), resi?ectively. - Although most of the women's team skipped the Union Open to prepare for their state meet, several team members did · compete, and they too fared quite well against their com- petition. Freshman Beth Jewett continued to shine in the weight events as she picked up two first places. Jewett threw the shot 31 feet 6 inches and then came back to take the discus by over 8 feet, tossing it 96 feet, 1 inch. Shirley Cagle also picked up a victory, as she led Union to a 1- 2-3 sweep of the 400 meter dash. Cagle clocked a time of 69.6 seconds, followed by Jen Regan's 74.6 and Danielle Farans' 76.8. Farans later added another third place, this time in the 200 meter dash, which she ran in 35.0 seconds. Union also swept the distance events with Sherry Cargile taking the 3000 meters in 11:55 and Martha Demany winning the 1500 easily in 5:42. The track team was not nearly as successful at the WPI relays, though once again several athletes turned in outstanding performances. Running against several of the powers of the East again, the Dutchmen could only manage one third place, that coming in the sprint medley relay. That relay, however, had a phenoinenal race, as each member ran at or close to his best. Doug Tulley and Steve Hayes led .off with splits of 22.9 and23~7 forthe200. Rob Mohlar followed with a 50.2 second split for the 400. Mohlar then handed off to Mike Reed, who anchored the relay with atime of 1:56.7 f(lr 800 meters. Reed's. split for the relay was a personal best by ahnost a second, and, even more incredibly, came only a couple of hours after he ran a 1 :58.3 in the 3200 meter relay. Mohlar also ran on that relay, where he turned in a 1:56.6. Although no other relays placed for the Dutchmen, all· ran quite competitively. The 3200 meter relay, led by Mohlar- and Reed, ran a 8:11.1. The 4x100 meter relay of Bill Craig, Hayes, Tulley and Rich Pisciotta added a quick ~.09 second time. The 4x200 meter- relay of Tulley, Pisciotta, Hayes and Jeff Simkins, rounded out Union's per- formance. That relay, behind Hayes' 23.17 split and Pisciotta's 23.33 second split, turned in a final time of 1 :36.8. The men's track team will be looking to cap off their season this weekend at the state meet at Buffalo State. With Mohlar and Reed formidable threats in the 800 and steeplechase · respectively, and with an im- proved crew of sprinters, the team will be looking to do well. After the state meet, Union returns home to finish off the season at the Union Spring Classic. · WomenTracksters Shines at Div.III Championships By ~()MEN'S TRACK TEAM Tlle 1987 Division III NWSVv:CAA outdoor track and field .e:hampionship was held tllis }last weekend at SUNY Cortlatld. The Union College W<lmen ;s track team sent eight W()men to this championship meet,. li\lllich proved to be their me~st s:uccessful championship ever; 'lwlany personal bests and sch()()l'Ce(!ords were recorded as Uml()n SCCJL\ed 17 points, putting th.ern in: the ninth position overall of the 15 teams com- petin~. Of tbo~e scoring for Union, senior Jell Diiorio finished in secvtld place and set a new schc()l ,rEcord in the javelin, with a tllrow of :J7.45 meters. Diori() als() set a new school rec()rd ill the discus with a th.row of 105'6\. Senior Julie H~LJ1el'l1 s~ a .new school record firlisltl!lg fourth in the 400 meter hurdes with a time of 65.6 se~omis. Sophomore Lorie Anderson went to finals in the 400 hw-dles, running a time of 69.6 and finishing in sixth place. Anderson also ran a personal best in the semi-finals, with a time of 66.7. The final points scored by the Union women were scored by the mile relay team. Halpern, Anderson, sophomore Claire Ginsberg Lytle and junior Jenny Lee ran a time of 4:10.8, providing them with a new school record as well as the fourth position overall. others who qualified for the meet but did not score points were: freshman Eileen Brady who reset the school record in the 1500 meters with a time of 5:05.2, and sophomore Maria Leonard who ran her first 10;000 meter run· (wildcard) and finished with a respectable time of 45:21. Lee also ran the 800 meters, in which she placed ninth. Special congratulations go to all the members of the team as well as coach Russ Ebbets. all of whom have worked very hard over the years to make a mark in women's track and field. 1986-87 has proven to be a highly successful year. for women's track. The team has reached new heights as they have had two consecutive winning seasons, and many rwmers have qualified for the NYSWCAA and ECAC meets. This coming weekend, l May 6 and 7th~ the team travels to Bowdoin College in Maine, where they will compete in the ECAC's. ·suPPORT UNION SPORTS a.tnnrnrbitnsis SPORTS Over the past few weeks there has been much discussion on the issue of paying a baseball player in excess of $2 mil'lion a year. Sports Wustrated gave an itemized list of every player in the Major Leagues and his exact salary. In addition, it also listed players who are disabled, retired or traded and still receive some sort of salary. However, these lists are misleading in the way that they make it look as if every team just gives away large contracts whenever they want. This is not true. Let me first say that I believe that if a team wants to pay a player $1 million or $2 million, that is their right and fans should not get so upset that it is such a large amount of money. Take the Tim Raines situation, for example. Raines missed all of spring training and the beginning of this season before rejoining the Montreal Expos last weekend when they played the Mets. The Expos are a typical, mediocre team that floats around fourth or fifth place very year, occasionally making a surge to first place which usually only lasts about a week of so at the most. Yet, this past week, Raines signed a multi-year contract for ap- proximately $5 million. In his first game back he had a triple, a single, a walk and a game winning grand slam in the loth inning. The following day, he hit another homer. This one oc- curred in the first inning and NOT IN THE BOX SCORE Mark Zimmerman proved to be all the Expos would need as they again beat the Mets. Now, how can you say he doesn't deserve the money? Great players bring fans to the ballpark. The Expos are not going to win the pennant, but just having Tim Raines on the team is going to bring fans to the ballpark, home and away. The same is true for Don Mattingly, Gary Carter, Eddie Murray, Jim Rice and all the other players who border on or around the $2 million mark. Let's face it, the majority of people at Union College are probably here so that they can get an education find a job, and become filthy rich. Now, sw-e, some of you are saying I just want to be happy and have my health and family, etc. But just think of how happy you could be with $2 million. Don Mattingly deserves what he makes (just under $2 mill). He has proved himself to be one of the best players in the game of baseball. If you were to compare a baseball team to a company, which in some ways it is, you would see the similarities. An employee in a company starts off at a base salary and as he becomes older and more suc- cessful his salary increases steadily. The same applies to baseball palyers. No matter what the reason for the owner of a team paying a player a large amoWlt of money, it is up to them and it should not even buy an issue the way it has become recently. \ ' !. ,. ... . ' . : ' . ' ' . . •. ~ \ · .. SCOREBOARD MEN·s lACROSSE RPI2 Colgata7 .... WOf\ltJEW~~ LA<>ROSSE . ~!~'tf:$,::, CornaU9 Cortland 13 PlU$$lJftSagfJ '5 RusseH SagEf-:'o .. .. Hatnilton4 .. Raehest.er 8 (1 f .innings) ).-- ' ,, Hartwick 4 Mrdd!ebtny 421 Utica 475 SPORTSWEEK 5/7 - 5/14 THURSDAY 5/7 Baseball at Williams Softball at North Adams Woman's Lacrosse vs. Williams Men's Tennis at Williams FRIDAY 5/8 Baseball .at Rochester Men's Track and Women's Track!ECAC Meet SATURDAY 5/9 Baseball at Hobart (2) Men's Lacrosse vs. Alumni MONDAY 5/11 Baseball at RPI 3:00 3:30 4:00 3:00 3:00 5/8 and 5/9 1:00 4:00 -

Page 2() ~: .. ~.~ ' li:WL '., .. ,.,/. ,,., ,·'.·•P•Mti•l'\.,,\'jll John Thorne., Unit>n's All-Am,eri:can? May7, 1987 .... Q) . c.. 0:. I'll ~ ict .6 0 0 ..c 0. Netmen Capture First Victory Curry College Sent Home Limpirig By ANDREW MILLER Oh, how sweet it is! It may not be comparable to winning Wimbledon ()r capturing tennis' Grand Slam~ but to tbe fighting Union college men's tennis tea:tn their first victory of the season means more to them then any championship. What it mea.ns is that the monkey is off of their backs. Union tennis went seven matches before putting things together to notch their first win, coming in the form of a 7-2 trouncing of Hartwick. \It was a complete victory,\ said coach Anna Means, ''the singles and doubles both out- played their opponents.\ Union came up with a ij-1 edge in the singles play, and wrapped up the match by taking two of three in the doubles contests. Doug Bank got things rolling in the right direction for the Netmen as the senior captain fought to the very end to secure a team point. Bank, who was nursing a swollen ankle. Showed no signs of ten- tativeness as he and Hartwick opponent Chuck Bolton im- mediately hooked up in a nailbiter. Bank pulled out the first set 7-6 in a dramatic tie- , braker. To his credit, Bolton battled back to tie the sets at one apiece with an impressive 6m 4 second set victory. The third set wavered back and forth with both players holding serve. Banks went ahead at 4-3 with a service break and never looked back. The wily veteran cap- tured the third set and the match 6-4. Union's Chad Levin, playing his best tennis all year. pushed the Dutchmen lead up to 2.0 with his convincing 6·2, 7-5 victory. Levin, who will be the backbone of the team next season, was too much for Hartwick's Dave Bassini to handle. Levin dominated the first set with his change of pace backhand and his powerful forehand. The second set saw Bassini force the play up tD net were he had temporary success. Levin tied the score at five apiece on serve in the second, and broke Bassini to go up 0-5. Serving for the match Levin was just too tough as he closed out the game and the match with two penetrating volley winners. The fourth singles match saw Jim O'Brien playing brilliant tennis, a comeback from a first set defeat to take the match. Hartwick's Tim Dempsey played strong enough tennis to pull out a 7-5 first set win. O'Brien came back with avengence to bagel Dempsey in the second 6-0. The third set was a close affair with O'Brien and Dempsey trading games. O'Brien went on top by a service break and held on to win 6-4. Dutchman Dan Elkeslassy was another Union player hooked up in a three set affair, Elkeslassy took the firsts~ on a early game service break 7-5. The second set was all Hartwick as Elkeslassy lost control of the match and the set &;2. The third· set was a real grind out dog fight. Hartwick's Peter Graves tried to force the play to net but Elkeslassy's groundstroke passing shOts turned the tide. Union took the match 7-5 in the third. The remaining two matches were both two set delights. Although Union's Dave Lesch lost his sixth singles match, the play nonetheless was exciting. Lesch ·battled Hartwick's Alec Callender for close to two hours of baseline tennis. When the dust had cleared Callender had squeeked out an· emotional 7-5, 7-6 victory. Jon Cunningham showed the crowd what they had missed in his six match absence. The wiry 6' 4\ senior totally overpowered his opponent. Cunningham's strong .baseline game and steady net play . propelled him to the victory. With the match sewn up the doubles teams could r.elax and play enjoyable tennis. Bank and Levin rocked and rolled to a hardknocked 6-4, 6-4 loss. Bank and Levin lost their intensity after the matches outcome had already been determined in the singles. Both the second doubles team of Jon Cunningham and Dan Elkeslassy and the third doubles squad of Jim O'Brien and Dave Lesch cruised to easy straight set victories s:.a, 6-1 and 6·2, 6~3 respectively. Finally the pieces seem to be coming together for Union tennis. The doubles and the singles are both playing strong while the role players have adjusted to their tasks well. The Dutchmen have only three matches remaining but they now take something into those matches that they never had before, a win under their belts, and most importantly, con·. fidence. By CHRIS SHERIDAN Union's Men's Rugby team has a reputation for beating . opponents by a large margin. Last Saturday's 50..0 shutout of Curry College wa:s no different. Senior prop Steve Lipsky put . Union on the board first after he PQunded the ball in for hi$ second try of the season-a feat rarely heard of from a player of his position. Lipsky missed his own conversion and Union was · ahead 4-0. Senior eight-man Jeff Albrecht gave Union four more after he scooped up the ball out of the serum and ran it in. He converted his own try for an . extra two and Union was ahead 10-0. Once again Albrecht scored, but missed the con- version - 14-0. Yet again, Albrecht found hiJ:nself a major part of a Union score, after he picked up the ball out of the serum, ran strong side, and . passed the ball behind his back to Senior Une-captain Steve Konlian who put the Line on the scoring chart for the first time of the game as he threaded Curry's \swiss cheese\ defense. \Albrecht played like a god,\ John Baker felt after the game. \The serum played great. (Curry's) serum was smaller than our line,\ he said. ScrUII1-half Larry ''The Natural\ Grob ran in for four, and he too converted it himself for an extra two - 24.0. The serum again scored when wing- forward Jodi Perkins <lUt·raced a Curry defender to a ball in the try-zone after a Josh.Derechin grubby. Perkins drop-kicked his o-w11 conversion to make it 30~. Albrecht again scored soon after, and once again, the scrummer hit his own con- version to end the first half with a 36-0 Union lead. Baker felt that Union's line, \worked well together. JoSh {Derechin) and Muzzi (Tom MUZzi.nigro) worked really well together.\ . Because Curry came with onlY one team, Union sub- stituted in players in the second half of the match. Tom Michael stiuied out Union's second half scoring: ''I kicked a grubby,\ he explained, \and it popped Up into my hands. I just ran it in around the fullback.\ His run was one of about 35 meters. Freshman Mo Kauff converted the try for an extra two. Freshman wing-forward Ed Vassallo also got lll.to the scoring when he ran in for his second tryo£ the seasoD. After a missed conversion, tile score stood at 46-0. Union's ·last four points came when 5()pl!omore Chris Sheridan, who ~11bstituted in for Albrecht at eigllt-man in the second half, pickedt)le ball out of the serum \Jef:f•.Aibrecht- style\ beat the defendE~s to the sideline, and ran t11e ball 80 meters for his secondtry of the season. His drop-:kicll: con- version attempt was vEry wide, and the final score recul50-0. \It was a good game,\ Michael said. \It si!O!wed our strength's well. 'Che :B-side ljne looked better than tlley nor- mally do.\ \I think we could ha\i'e played better,\ Albrecht saill. \We didn't play our best but we played welL\ Union's last game >()f the sekson is this coming Saturday at 1:00 against RPI on Library field in front of what b().]les to be a large Parents weekend crowd. The Union Huns' recCJ~d now stands at 6-3 for the sea:son. THIS WEEK IN · CONCORD·IENSIS SPORTS:

..,. •·.., «• II • ,.,. ' - N'

i,l I 1.' i ' \ t I I ~ I

'· L ••• _.. •. .., .... '·~ -I.L.•J••··· ... '•.:.._,.~, ... ,~-,,,~,--.,•,.,,.r, 5-7 p.m.-. REGISTRATION. Welcome to Union College! Pick UP information and a schedule of weekend events in the lobby of Old Chapel. light refresh- ments available. , ·) 5-7 p.m.-\W AITING FOR GO DOT\ will be .presented by Union's student theatre troupe, MoW)tebanks, in Jackson's' Garden. 7 p.m.-Witness the final round of the Blatchford Oratorical Contest sponsored by the Political Science Department. Old Chapel Dining Room. . 7, 9, 11 p.m.-. Take a trip\down under\ when the Film Committee presents CROCODILE DUNDEE in SS016. (no cigarettes or food, please! ) 8 p.m.-\The News Behind the Headlines.\ The Speakers Forum presents JACK ANDERSON in ~emorial Chapel. 8 p.m.-Prepare ye the way for Mountelilanks production of GODSPELL in· Nott Memorial. . . Tickets available in the box office in Old Chapel. Jack An· derson -$1.00; Crocodile Dundee· $1.00. . 9 a.m.-12 p.m.-REGISTRATION. Welcome. to.Ur.Uon College! ~ick up in- formation and a schedule of w~ekend event$· while enjoying a continental breakfa$t with faculty and staff. Old Chapel Dining Room. ·. · · 9 a.m.-12 p.m.-- Tfie Admissions staff WiU be o~ hand to interview interested sons and daughters of Union parents in the Admissions Office in Becker Hall. 9:15 a.m.-10:.45 a.m.-. PARENTS COMMITTEE MEETING in Hale House Lower Lounge. · · . 9:30 a.m.-11 a.m.-·The following acadernic.4epart,ments .will host open houses: BIOLOGY - S&E 8103; CHEMISl'~V - S.&E 3rd fipor; CIVIL ENQ-INEERING - BU 109; COMPUTER SCIE.NC~.- -C;Qmputer ~c,iepce ·Lab; COMPUTER SERVICES- Pes~hel Center, Steirime~;. PSYGIJQLOGY -Psych 204 . '· ' . ··10 a.m.-11 a.m.-HUMANITIES_.;. Hum:: FAG ,.Lo1:lllg~, 2ud · floor; MECHANICAL ENGINEERING- S&E :ti205. . . . . . . . 10 a.m.-12 p.m.-You are invited to tour the &necial CollectiQns of ·Schaffer Library. ~1~ you are there,:make sure to_see. th~.Phi_:Qe~.I~appa Room ... worthlooking mto. . :· . , . . · . · . . . , 10 a.m.-12 p.m.-Get those important questions-answered by the Financial ·Aid staff at the office in Becker Hall. 11 a.m . .;S: 30 p.m.-PHOTO EXHIBIT. Take a stroll and '!'iew the works of Union faculty, staff ~~d stuq~p~.-P,b9.togr~:RR$ wJ:ll,_be on Qjspl~y __ op ~bracy ~laza. ~n case ·of rmn ·or .. fligh. Winds,- phptps Will· be· on· qi§plar, m Nott Memorial. . .,. . , . , ... : .. r' .... ,.. . 11 a.m.-PRIZE DAY AWARD CEREMONY. Awards are presented. to students for · outstanding achievement and performance in · academics, --- --- .. * ...a__ L'l __ .......__,,..:. __ ~ \R.Jr'----.....!.-..1·rtt...---1 WEEKEND SEMINARS CONTINUED SESSION G: \Application of the Computer to Engineering Practice\; moderated by Professor Ted Schwarz. BU 204. SESSION D: \American-Chinese Relatians\ moderated QY Professor Don Thurston. Union students from the China temi abroad program and current Chinese exchange students will share their experinces:HU 019. 3:30p.m.-4:30p.m.-WEEKENDSEMINARSCONTINUE: SESSION E: \Some· Perspectives on Intercollegiate Athletics\ moderated. by Professor Ted Bick. SS 013. SESSION F: \Midwives Tigers, and Jazz\ moderated by Professor Doug Klein. Experience the adventures of the Union Watson Fellowship winners. HU115. SESSION G: \AIDS: Biological, Ethical, and Legal Questions''; moderated by Professor Bill Fairchild. SS 104. · SESSION H: \Living and, Learning in Japan: The Term .Abroad Ex- perience\ Social Sciences Faculty Lounge, 2nd floor~ . 4:00 p.m.-4:45p.m.-. Memorial Chapel will come alive with the music of the JAZZ ENSEMBLE of Union College. . . . 4;00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.-CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER OPEN HOUSE A chance to meet with Joanne Tobiessen, Director, and Pat Matteo, Associate Director, in the Career and Counseling Center. . . . 4:30 p.m.-5:·30 p.m.-THE PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION. President and . Mrs. Morris will be joined by Union faculty and staff in welcoming parents and students. Library Plaza. In case of rain, Achilles Rink . 5:30 p.m.-· CANDLELIGHT OINNEJt. with.entertamment provided by Jeff Preslaff, jazz musician. By reservation only. Hale House Dining Room. 5:30 p.m.-·The DANCE ENSEMBLE will be performing a program of modern pieces choreographed by students and Vera Or lock, instructor. Performing Arts Studio. . 7 p.m.-Men's Lacrosse Team vs. Alumni on astroturf field. 7, 9, 11 p.m.-. Take a trip \down under\ when the Film Committee presents CROCODILE DUNDEE in SS016. {no cigarettes or food, please!) 7:00 p.m.-DINNER THEATRE with STUDENT CABARE'J.' SHOW. See students perform their unique talents while enj.oying dinner. By reservation only. Old Cllapel Dining Room. 8:00p.m.-· The UNION COLLEGE CHOIR, under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, presents a special Parents' Weekend Concert. Memorial Chapel. 9:30 p.m.-Prepare ye the way fon Mmmtebanks production of GODSPELL in Nott Memorial. · 9:30 p.m.-1:30 a.m.-. ·Dance the night away to the music of the RON PAR- TCH·LEW PETTYS ORCHESTRA, with Union's own Vice President Tom ·D'Andrea on the drums. Cash bar and hors d'ouevres will be available. Tickets should be purchased in advance, but will beavailable at the door of the Ramada Inn. 10 p.m.-. CABARET ... the opportunity to see Union students display their talents as guitarists, pianists, song writers, and singers. Old Chapel Dining n\\'\' ~~nb1rino R~flkv Thaver. Jim Harvard, Wendy Richards; Dave I \'d ~ ~ t:J:5 ~ ~ ~~ <: .~ .. ~­ ..~ ~ ~ ~ •e\J \\i' ~

.t\ • I \' 11 a.m . .;S: 30 p.m.-PHOTO EXHIBIT. Take a stroll and. '!'iew ~he works of Union faculty, staff_a~d stucl~n~··fb.9.togr~;gqs w;i;:ij_be on QJ.spl::tY .. ~~ ~brary Plaza. In case ·of ratn 'O:r .. l)tg}l Wlftdsi ph9tps will ,be· on· (U~play, m Nott M 0 l ' emor1a . ... . . . · . . ... : .. 1 • · . ·,. • • 11 a.m.-PRIZE DAY AWARD CEREMONY. Awards are presented to students for - outstanding achievement and performance in · academics, athletics, and service to the College. MemorialChapel., . ! . . . . . . _ . . 11:30 a.m.-1: 30 p.m.-Not to be missed ... LUN~H! A picnic will be held on Library Plaza .. All proceeds will benefit the- U:nioll_l)ay-Care Center. . : 12 p.JJl.-\Fists of Fury\ will be demons~rC\ted:~Y the ~~rat~ Club in front of West College. _ . · · · . . · · 12 p.m.-2 p.m.- TOURS. of the. newest additions tq the Union College land~ scape will be conducted. Meet in front of' Alumni Gym. :_ · 12 p.m.•2 p.m.-PHOTO. EXIJIBIT on ·Italy by ~aflte $tec~er. M~et the · artist and view his work in Social Sciences-FacuJ;ty ~un:ge,:2nd:floor. 12:15 p.m.-1 :30 p.m.-~'Will Jews Go J;tepublican in '88?\ .A ,presentation by Terry Weiner, Associate Dean of F~culty and :Associate Professor. of Sociology. 88104. · . . 12:30- p.m.-1 :.30 p.m.-- The Union College DUTCH PIPERS and GARNET MINSTRELLES entertain a capella as thE!y sing:sQngs too good tQ bcHorgotten, including the Alma Mater. Memorial Chapel steps.. . . . · . · 1 p.m.- Men's Rugby takes on arch Iival RPI on Library Field. . . 1:30 p.m.-2:30 p.pt.-• \THE PRESIDENT'S HERITAGE SEMINAR\ Take a trip through the architectural history ofth,e College grounds .. :Pr~sident Morl_\is will preside over a $lide presentation and. panel discussion in SS016. Pr.esen.- ters: Ruth Anne Eyans, Gil Harlow andBiJl Hun~ley. . · l :30 p.m.-2 :30 p.m.-ALUMNI CAREER PANSL. Recent Uruon graduates will discuss theit aca\demic and co-curricqlar preparation as it relates to their current career fields. Sponsored by _the Career Deyelopm,ent C~nter inHU115. 2:30 p.m.-3:30 p.m.-WRl!C, Umon's own radio stat10n, Will host an open house in the station on the third floor of Old Chapel. This is your chance' to see student D.J. 's spin their favorite tunes. ALSO, enjoy an ice cream treat with Ben and Jerry in 'the Old Chapel courtyard. Spol;lsored by WRUC. . . · · · · 2:30 p.m.-ARTS CLUB SPRING PERFORMANCE wi:1l be a cornucopia of artistic delight in the Performing ArtsStudio. . · 3:00p.m.- Men'-s Rugby challenges the Alumni on. Library Field. 3:0D-4-:00 p.m.-The GOSPEL ENSEMBLE, DANCE CLUB, and the BLACK AND LATIN ALLIANCE_ OF STUDENTS (BLAS) synchronize to present a selection of poetry, song, dance, and festivity in Old Chapel dining room~ , 2:30 _p.m ... 3:30 p.m.-WEEKEND _SEMINARS: from moral dilemma through compv.t¢r application to the terms abroad experience. here's your chance to see Union faculty and students in action. SESSION A: \Moral Dilenunas Posed by Modem Technology\ moderated by Professor Linda Patrik. HU 117. SESSION B: \'A Student Look at Women and Work\ moderated by Professor Martha Huggins. HU 114. t TCH•LEW PETTYS ORCHESTRA, with Union's own VIce Torn · D'Andrea on the drums. Cash bar and hors d' ouevres will be available. Tickets should be purchased in advance, but will beavailable at the dpor of the Ramada Inn. 10 p.m.-- CABARET ... the opportunity to .see Union students display their talents as guitarists, pianists, song writers, and singers. Old Chapel Dining Room. Featliring Becky Thayer, Jinl Harvard, Wendy Richards; Dave Provost, and Steve Sanders $1.50 per person. Tickets available at the box office in Old Chapel * * Crocodile Dundee --$1.00 * * Cabaret (10 p.m. show- $1.50 * * DanceattheRamadainn-$2.00inadvance; $3.00atthedoor. I I:~:::::::I::::~r:~::::::I:::t::::::I:::::IIiJi:~·:;-:-:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:·:-:-:-:·:·:·: 9:00 a.m.-.A morning jog will be run by Professo~ Ted Bick. Meet in front of the Alumni Gym for a 3 mile wake-up. . . .. · 10:15 a.m.-INTERDENOMINATIONAL WORSHIP SERVICE. The Reverend Christine A. Chakoian, Associate Pastor, Fourth Presbyterian Church; Chicago, preaching in l.Vlemorial ChapeL . . . 10 a.m~-12 p.m. & 12 p.m.-2 p.m.-·_ MOTHER'S DAY BRUNCH. Treat Mom, to a feast in her horior, while Sharon Perkins, pianist, entertains. By reservation only. Old Chapel and Hale House Dining Rooms. . 12 p.m.,2 p.m.-MOTHER'S DAY BRUNCH sponsored_ by the Jewish Student Union. Brunch will be served in the Kosher Kitchen, West College. No reservations required! . · . 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m.-\ 'Life After College: What Is It Like Out There?\ A discussion with Reverend Christina Chakoian. Hale House Lower Lounge. 2:00 p.m.-UNION CHAMBER ORCHESTRA presents Cimarosa, Haydn, Mendelssohn, V. Guigliano, '89. The Chamber Orchestra,. now in its second season; will be premiering a new composition by Virginia Guigliano, class · of'89. Memorial Chapel. 3:00 p.m.-- The DANCE ENSEMBLE will be performing a progtain of modern pieces choreographed by students and Vera Orlock, instructor. Performing Arts Studio. ALUMNI GYM HOURS: Friday- Until9 p.m. Saturday -'410 a.m. to 9 p.m. Sunday- Noon to 11 p.m. Swimniing, nautilus, racquetball, squash and intramural equipment available. Call370-6119 for more information. ' BOOKSTORE HOURS: Saturday -10 a.m. to 4 p.m. BOX OFFICE HOURS: Frida· .. until midni tit - - . .. y -- . .. .. ... __ g Saturday- 9 a.m to 12 p.m. Sunday- 2 p.m.

PageD PARENTS' WEEKEND SECTION • ' ' FRONT STREET CAFE ft NIGHTLY SPECIALS RESER'\IA TIONS SUGGESTED specializing in Fresh Seafoo.d, Hand cut DINNER 5:oo-1o:oo Steaks and Veal 382-0286 Best Wishes to Union College students and parBnts for an enjoyable Parents Weekend. We would like to be a part 9f your weekend. Joins us i for dinner - only 15 : minutes from the Union ! ~ Campus 95q NEW LOUDON ROAD t • LATHAM, NEW Y.ORK 12110 • . : 518 785 3653 tt • • • • • • o • • • • o • 4 ....................... ._... • • • • • • • e e • • • • • • • • • t .J '- ~ ....... .,.. f.J): \A RISTORANTE . I l.UT\U.W.L'\.1 OF ALBANY · \The Place Where People Love To Eat\ The Marello . Family Invites You To A Pleasurable Dining Experience OUR MENU FEATURES FINE • Veal & Chops • Steaks • Seafood • Pasta 1553 Central Avenue, Colonie, N.Y. Phone: 869-0634 Open for Mother's Day brunch from 10 a.m. • • •• • Welcome Pa.re·nts Make sure to make your Mother's Day dinner reservations. ~. ''famous for Veal Parmigiana'' Open 1-10 p.m. Su~., May 10 -Reserve Early- 370-1514 CasaMia. also open Saturday fro lunch from 11:30 IREEC:ORES lOR &.LL MOTHERS ON MOTHER•s DAY · MAY 10th,1987 .ACCtP'I.AM.t PROOI' OF MOTHOUIDOD 1 You1' Khl(s) 4- Gf'ey Imif'.s 2 Photo of You!' Kid(5) 5 Vi.slbly f.J<.pectaot ;3 E>tf'th Ce:rti:fu:ate5 l1other5·6et Two! ·D T I l a n u l..i ta on co TI or I be U: cc fo in is C< 81 A w 8J a: n fc sl d ( a J

Nationally srn><Jicated journali'st Jack Anderson spoke in Memorial Chapelf()r this year's Parents' Weekertd. Alternative Education Pro-posal Revie-wed Outline of Both Plans Inside By D.B.GULLIVER .. The . ...CUtticl;1l.at:'!-- Alt~rnative . Committee -presente~ · its proposal Friday May Dafter ten weeks of Workw 'The proposal is markedly different . from the original GenEI:\al Education pl~n. as it delitteates specific courses required for incoming fe.shmen whEr:eas General Education allo:wts student choice among _specific ~ias. Outli11e of both plans p. 4 for jUl'liors that is in an ex- perb:nent~ fo1m now. There are three applied math., science a~d technologf clilirses- tnat a· stUdent may select from a group of colll\ses. Four courses are specifkall:y desjgned for this course anci are reqlli.red: Argument Hl; Emergence of the Modern W()r]d (a two term course), a11d the Freshman Writing Component (FWC). ' Argument is designed to \formulate and analyze arguments, primarily verbally, but also, t() some extent, symbolically.\ lt would be a 50- CoiltilluEd on page 3 '. 1877 Anderson Speaks at Memorial Chapel . . . Prominent Columnist Evaluates S.D.!., Hart Decision By EZRA SHERMAN Jack .Anderson, this year's parent's day guest speaker. talked iii Memorial Chapel l~st Saturday. Mr. Anderson's visit to Union was not his first as one of his nine children graduated from Union five years ago. Anderson touched base with three basic topics: Gary Hart's withdrawl, the Iran arms scandal, and S.D.I. . Mr. Anderson addressed Gary Hart'.s motivation for dropping out of a race which 'he had a gopd chance of winning. Anderson testified to two possible causes of a candidate's down·fall. First, candidates who get too far ahead of the pack too early in the race, become the target of all of the. rest of the candidate's criticism. Second, it .-is. i'impossible for _a can~date ·to survive alter he has been condemned.\ As. liart .sees it,' the Miami Herald acted as · judge and jury in condemning to him the stigma of being an adulterer. Anderson said tnat the Miami Herald was justified in its printing of the article abO'ut Hart's supposed relationship with Donna Rice because Hart had made ·his marital status an issue. He broughtthe publicity on himself by making a point of his role as a husband and father. The resifPtation of Hart opens upthe presidential race. to other candidates. From the democratic party, Anderson sees Joe Biden and Albert Gore as prime candidates. On the other hand, he does not see Mario Cuomo as contributing the element of freshness that the democrats need to stimulate . their. flagging support. The He (Hart) brought the publicity on himself by making a point of ·his role as a h!lsband and father. appealing candidates from the republican party are Bush, Dole and Kemp, though Bush is af- flicted with the same early lead that damaged Hart's chances. Anderson expects that next year's choice of candidates will save qim fro:q1 the Jate of the past couple of elections of having to \vote for the lesser of two evils.\ . With the Iranian bombing of ·the Marine barracks, Reagan's caution left and what Anderson describes as his Rambo side took over. May 14., 1987 Union Graduate Rebukes Unethical Politics Weintraub Speaks of Corruption in NYS Govt. By R. REED WHIDDEN Wednesday, May 6, Floyd Weintraub, Union graduate of 1970, gave a lecture on ethics in politics. He spoke of corruption in the New York State governw ment-corruption having to do with outside incomes. In Weintraub's eyes, since the rise of the technocrats (meaning those who can operate the system or those who can operate those who can operate the system) during the 70's, the . idea that \to be a success means to be able to. manipulate the system\ has infiltrated the political world. In this case, CQrruption is surfacing · once again. The General Eclucation plan, designed by tile subcouncil headed by Professors Sorum and Zwicker; V\lill g() into effect during the 19~9 school year unless a simple majority of the faculty vote in favor . of the alternative pr()posal at the JUne 1 meeting. Local 301 Walkout at G.E. Pla.nt Another issue of public concern has been the Iran arms scandal. Two secret Reagan guidelines suggest the reason for the Administration's in- volvement. In the first, Reagan is quoted as saying that \the most destabilizing thing that can ever happen in the world is that a superpower is without control/' In the second of these guidelines, he says that he is \sick and tired of puny nations · pushing the United States around and that he is prepared There are two kinds of corruption in the system: 1) corruption of the people and 2) corruption of the system itself. In the first type there is an illegality, a wrong that can be proved and blamed on one person. The second type. is a situation in which the system is used by people for their gain. In this case there is no illegality, but wrong still comes of it. An example of this corruption would be when a member of a legislative committee could testify as lawyer for a privaate client and then sit dovm again as a memfler of the committee. By influencing the other members of that committee, he gets what his client wants done and gets paid a good deal of The Altern;ative PropoS~,il requires a total o-1seven courses and a language-culture requirement that can be satisfied in vatYing ways, and a Contemporary -Jssues section By CHRI5'I'INEHONG . Last week. e~t the· General Electric ,pl~nt located in Schenectady, approximately 5,.000 empl()yees staged a walkout. Tile strike, which started Wednesday afternoon was to protest the \imprcper . placement\ cf many of the workers as a result of the reorganization mid layoffs that will go into ef1ed; next month,\ according t() Local 301 Business Agent Louis Valenti. The strike, which lasted four business days ended Monday. The strike • • • w~1s to protest flte \impropct placement\ of many of the workers. 1~~~~~i~~~~~ It is Said that projections of ... ·,A;::::::t~·)b=M::t=q~:<~l:U::;~(~;;q;;;;gnF%'=i;l· employee c11ts in the coming '''' • years also wt11rbed many of G.E.'s emplvyees. Russell Noll, turbine b11siness operation manager, saici that the 13,765 presently employed will be cut · down to 12,400 by the end of this year and that only lZ,OOO \V()uld . be employed by the Schenec- tady in 19!)9. The 5,00() e.mployees are members of tile Intematicnal Union of Electr()nic, Technic8J., Salaried, and Machine Worli:ers weal 301. The strike officially ended Monday, however, it did not achieve at gaining any negctiations- for the union. While lsst week Valenti com- mented that the ~trike \will continue until there is some resolution we can live -with,\ this week representatives fer . the llllion said that .the walkout t()Ok place to basically make a comment on; as well as pu,blicize, the reorganization policies. · G.E. officials did not make public statements; yet, in a · press release, it was noted that they were \disappointed'' that a strike tilok place stating ''all -affected employees are being . placed in strict accordance with the labor contract negotiated by the union and the company.\ The report also released that the company has taken · measures to form a conunittee to examine the issues t:ttat the workers are concerned with. However; Valenti has been quoted as saying that the committee \has just not worked.\ The release also urged the union to settle it's problems through \the informal grievance mechanism\. as established in the workers' contracts. Continued on page -2. Continued on page 3 Photo of the Week: Parents of Union students enjoy a barbeque in the sun. ..c .~ E (f) ~ u Q) .0 Q) a: ~ 0 0 .s:: a.

Page 2 CONCORDlENSIS, May 14,. 1987 Fraternities Face Increa:se L . . . . I . 1abthty nsurance • Ill \. By ALISON W.ILLIAMS McFarland, former president of · to McFarland, the college bas the Inter-FraternitY Council. not giv:en the fraternities Fraternity liability insura11ce Uability insurance covers· a financiJAl assistance but it has been a hot topic on campus. fraterntty in situations in- ·. helped the fraternities find Recently, rumors have heen volving alcohol related ac- insUrance companies. that will circulating the campus that the cldents. For example if a · cover them. \On«!e an in- insurance rate is increasing to fraternity serves someone · surance company hears the the point where some frat;er· alcohol and that person hurts word 'fraternity' they do not nities are having trou.ble himself or someone else, the . wanttohaveanythingto dowlth paying. Liability insurance bas fraternity, tmder law, is liable.,· us,\ said Jeff. Furthermore, the increased in the past few years \Not all situations involve college's own insurance carrier and in this past year it bas alcohol, but the· majority .of is hesitant if the fraternities are nearly doubled. \Most them do,\ said Jeff. not cQvereq. · · fraternities· have a milUon The question that arises isthe · Some fraternities may be dollar insur;ance policy which college doing anything to help · struggling now because their Last term, Vice-President John Hauser explained the reason for \tuition increase. What about nationwide? See article below. for some fraternities is paying the fraternities with their . insurance rate is Up ·and -tbey up to $5,0Cl0 a year,\ said .Jeff ' liability insurance? .According • are trYing to find an irJsurance \__ __________ __;;__......___. __ ....__........__________ :company that suits them. The V I • d • t f T ·• ~- • I D -b· t d.· ·insurance policy is based on · a 1 1 y o . Ul ton ncreases • e a e 1:.t~~~=t~:~~~ brothers in the house. UnhoUSed U.S. Secretary of .Education Oppos.es Increases in Higher Education Costs • · fraternities are also required to ·: pay liability insurance, ! • although it is significantly cheaper. By FIONA SHUKRI The New York Times, in their May 12 iRsue, ran an article addressing college tuition hikes. Secretary of Education William J. Bennet has been a prominent adversary against the .in- creases~ Some college officials have publicly criticized in- creased tuition rates on easily obtainable Federal student aid. Argues Bennet: \Higher education is not underfunded. It is tmderaccountable and un- derproductive.\ educational press 5o that they polled feel that tuitions are is labOr-intensive and therefore may justify their pricing . increasing so rapidly that lllarJ;Y more susceptible to. price in· systems. The National Institute families wi:ll soon be unable to creases. According to a study of Independent Colleges and afford· to send their children to conducted usin,g data gathered Universities has begun a college. States the Times.: \A from the._ Department of project to educate parents and spot check of several doz;en Education, the BUl'eau of Labor prospective students on various colleges and universities aeross Statistics, and the Department possible methods of financing the country indicates thatrnost of Commerce, there ha~ been an education at a private private institutions will be little change in the percentage college. raising their charges next year of income reqUired to meet by six to eight percent.\ education costs. One notable According to the United Tuition has been increasing at exception has been private States Census Committee the a rate significantly higher than colleges. However,. only 20 percentage. of high school inflation. Colleges have been .percent of college students are graduates that attend college · attempting to explain this rate enrolled at private .institutions. hasn't changed, but results by noting that higher education The Reagan administration from a survey conducted by the expenses did not rise as qllickly accepts the studies Q.gures, but Opinion Research Corporation as inflation in the late seventies notes that now: two people are this past December, indicate • and early eighties, and by required to produce the Economics Dept. Professor Will Present Lecture on Trade Deficit Today at 4:30 pm, the Faculty Colloqni'lllil Inaugural Address will take place in Social Sciences 016. Professor of Economics Dwight Phaup will be the guest speaker presenting a lecture on ''The Trade Deficit and U.S Economic Policy.'' With swelling tuitions, several universities have opted to offer seminars for • that 82 percent of the public stressing that higher edu<~ation required disposable income. -------------------=--__;_ _ _;__:._ _ __:. ___ .:::...:,__;_::::_ __ __;_.:.::.:....., Bennet. argues that the The lecture will focus on the future of the American economy in the face · of a growing trade deficit, Far Anders . on ·Commen.ts On Cu·rr·en.t availability of Federal Student · assistance contributes to the . Eastern competition, and new theories concerning the legitimacy of economic in- dicators. t • increasing cost of college. Issues to Parents Weekend Audience eouegeofficiatshavecriticized Bennet's accusations. Donald Profes~or . Phaup . is the Chatmcey H. Winters Professor of Economics at Union. He is a graduate of- Roanoke College and received a Ph.D. at the University of . Virginia in Charlottesville. Phaup joined the Union faculty in '1972. Continued from page 1 · tei take minimal risks to rectify the situation.\ With the Iranian b()mbing of the marine barracks, Reagan's caution left and what Anderson describes as his Rambo side, took over. One . . • this government was doing business with · Kbomeini; \perhaps the most evil man in the world today.\ of the preliminary steps in- volved in retaliation is a meeting with top advisers. At tllis point Reagan was advised ()f a couple of sobering facts. The Persian Gulf is our life- blood. If the flow is cut off, the West would be deprived of half of its oil. In addition, the Soviet's have a treaty with the· Iranians, pledging aid if they are attacked. And along the Soviet-Iranian border is 23 Soviet military units. Faced with the choice of either doing business with an abhorrent regime, or risking WWIII, Reagan decided to do business. He was told that the best way to influence the Iranians was to sell them arms and since the Israelis have the most backed channels, they were the logical intermediaries. Ander~on that, in time, Reagan lost sight of the global goals and became obsessed with getting the hostages out. The scenario, when Jack Anderson published the story exposing the deal with Iran, was that this government was doing business with Khomeini; \perhaps the most evil man in the world today/' Khomeini was the man responsible for alniost all terrorist induced Amel\ican deaths and for all terl\orist bombings. Yet, in the Administration's disinform- ation campaign against Quadaffi, Quadaffi was blamed for the terrorist actions. The third issue Anderson touched. on was Reagan's pursuit of S.D.I. Why did Reagan reject, at the Icelandic Peace Conference, \the best peace package to be offered to any president\? BecalUle ac- cepting it meant abandoning Routh, university director of financial aid at Yale states: ''If anYthing, it's the recent decrease in Federal funds, not the longterm increase, that has · contributed to tbe high tuition increases in recent years.\ S.D.!. Anderson claims that the Soviets have a ten year lead in space and would have us believe that the Soviets are ahead of us · in developing a Star Wars system. Anderson added that . \we won WWII because we controlled the ski.as\ ; implying t(}· this listener .that he believes that WWIII can be won by controlling space. Ironically, he closed his lecture supporting tile militarization of space, with the statement, \I believe peace is possible and the best years · are ahead .. \· FALL TERM PRE·REGISTRAT'ION ·PROCEDURES 1 Preregistration materials (the \Preregistration. ~ours~ Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday, May 15. Students should revjew the course listing. consult with their advisers. and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. To PREREGlSTER EVERY STUDENT WILL BE REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PREREGISTRATION FORM. IF THEIR ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDE:NT SHOULD CONSULT Wtrn THE HEAD OF THEIR ADVISER'S DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are: indicated on the course listing. by an asterisk. lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on Wed., May 20. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then should return to the depqrtments on Fri., May 22 to find out whether or not. they have been admitted. 1h()se admissted to a list coursae .must get a .r13servation card from thA department. ln order to pick up a card you must have your preregistration form with you to be stamped by the departme11t. You are not perm~tedto pick up no more than three· (3)cards. NO ONE WILL 6E Al.LOWEDTOPREREGISTER FOR A \LISr COURSE WITHOUT SUCH A CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for an independent study or research requires completion .of a form which is available· in the Registrar's Office. It must be signed by the supervi:Sing faculty member and his/her chairperson. · The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the lable affixed to the ~Preregistration Course ~equest Form.\ Students rnay not preregister prior to their as$igned time. Preregis1ration will conclude on Fri., MiilY .29. Additional course changes may next be made during the Drop/Add period at th& start of the fall term. . Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at tl'le time printed on their \Preregistration Course Request Fo~m\ (this form, filled out AND SIGNED BY THEIR ADVISER, must be brought to pretegis1ration~. Once in~ide they should verify that the courses they desire are not closed, If one or more courses are cbsed, they should selec.1 new ones and correct.their p[reregistration form. Then, tltey should see a ~taft me·mber who will preregister them. Students whO do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except graduating sdeniors, must give notice of their plans to tfle Dean of Students. Potential December graduates s!'lould inform the Office of the Registrar e>f their plans .to finish their studies at the end of the fall term ..

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, May 14, 1987 Last term, Vice-President John Hauser explained the reason for tuition increase. What about nationwide? See article below. Fraternities Face Increase Liability Insurance • Ill By ALIS0\N WILLIAMS Fraternity Uability insurance has been a hot topic on campus. Recently, rumors have been circulating the campus that the insurance rate is increasing to the point where some frater- nities are having trouble paying. Liability insurance has increased in the past fiew years and in this past year it has nearly doubLed. \Most fraternities have a million dollar insurance policy which for some fraternities is payin.g up to $5,000 ll year,\ said Jeff McFarland, former president of the Inter-Fraternity Council. Liability insurance covers a fraternity in situations in- volving alCohol related ac· cidents. For example if a fraternity serves someone alcohol and that person hurts himself or someone else, the fraternity, under law, is liable. \Not aU situations involve alcohol, but the majority of them do/' said Jeff. The question that arises isthe college doing anything to help the fraternities with their liability insurance? According to McFarland, the college has not given the fraternities financial assistance but it helped the fraternities find insurance companies that will cover them. ''Once an in- surance company hears the word 'fraternity' they do not want to have anything to do with us,\ said Jeff. Furthermore, the college's own insw-anee carrier is hesitant if the fraternities are not covered. Validity of Tuition Increases Debated Some fraternities may be struggling now because their insurance rate is up and they are trying to find an insurance company that suits them. The insw-ance policy is based on certain characteristics of the fraternity such as the number of brothers in the house. Unhoused fraternities are also required to pay liability insurance, although it is significantly cheaper. U.S. Secretary of Education Opposes Increases in Higher Education Costs By FIONA SHUKRI educational press so that they may justify their pricing systems. The National Institute of Independent Colleges and Universities has begun a project to educate parents and prospective students on various possible methuds of financing an education at a private college. polled feel that tuitions are is labor-intensive and therefore increasing so rapidly that many more susceptible to price in- families will soon be unable to creases. According to a study afford to send their children to conducted using data gathered college. States the Times: \A from the Department of spot check ()f several dozen Education, the Bureau of Labor colleges and universities across Statistics, and the Department the cotmtry indicates that most of Commerce, there has been private institutions will be little change in the percentage raising their charges next year of income required to meet Economics Dept. Professor Will Present Lecture on Trade Defi.cit The New York Times, in their May 12 i.<~.iue, ran an article addressing college tuition hikes. S.ecretary of Education William J. Bennet has been a prominent adversary against the in- c-reases. Some college officials h;ave publicly criticized in- c-reased tuition rates on easily O<btainable Federal student aid. A.rgues Bennet: ''Higher education is not underfunded. It is underaccountable and Wl- (ferproductive.\ by six to eight percent.\ education costs. One notable According to the United Tuition has been increasing at exception has been private Today at 4:30pm, the Faculty Colloquium Inaugural Address will take place in Social Sciences 016. Professor of Economics Dwight Pbaup will be the guest speaker presenting a lecture on \The Trade Deficit and U.S Economic Policy.\ States Ce11sus Committee the a rate signi.ficantly higher than colleges. However, only 20 percentage of high school inflation. Colleges have been percent of college students are graduates that attend college attempting to ex:plain this rate enrolled at private institutions. hasn't changed, but results by noting tha;t higher education The Reagan administration from a survey conducted by the expenses did not rise as quickly accepts the studies figures, but With swelling tuitions, several universities have opted t>O offer seminars for Opinion Research Corporation as inflation ill the late seventies notes that now two people are this past December, indicate and early eighties, and by required to produce the The lecture will focus on the future of the American economy in the face of a growing trade deficit, Far Eastern competition, and new theories concerning the legitimacy of economic in- dicators. that 82 percent of the public stressing that higher education required disposable income. ------------------------------~----------~--~~----~~~~------~~~ Bennet argues that the Anderson Comments On Current =~~~~~~y ~!nir~~~~:! ~~ud~~! I f W • increasing cost of college. ssues to Parents eekend Audtence eonegeofficials have criticized Bennet's accusations. Donald Professor Phaup is the Chauncey H. Winters Professor of Economics at Union. He is a graduate of Roanoke College and received a Ph.D. at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville. Phaup joined the Union faculty in 1!!72. Continued from page 1 to take minimal risks to rectify the situation.\ With the Iranian bombing of the marine barracks, Reagan's caution left and what Anderson describes as his Rambo side, took over. One . . . this government was doing business with Khomeini; \perhaps the most evil man in the world today.\ <Of the preliminary steps in- volved in retaliation is a meeting with top advisers. At this point Reagan was advised {)f a couple of sobering facts. The Persian Gulf is our life- blood. If the flow is cut off, the West would be deprived of half of its oil. In addition, the Soviet's have a treaty with the Iranians, pledging aid if they are attacked. And along the Soviet-Iranian border is 23 Soviet military units. Faced with the choice of either doing business with an abhorrent regime, or risking WWIII, Reagan decided to do business. lie was told that the best way to influence the Iranians wast() sell them arms and since the Israelis have the most backed. channels, they were the logical intermediaries. Anderson that, in time, Reagan lost sight of tile global goals and became obsessed with getting the hostages out. The scenario, when Jack .Anderson published the story exposing the deal with Iran, was that this government was doing business with Khomeini; \perhaps the most evil man in. the world today.\ Khomeini was the man responsible for almost all This Week's Events Thursday; May 14 3. :30 p.111. Psychology ll.ldg. 213. Psychology Colloquia: \Sex . Role Tr;,mscendence and Ps:ycbol1>gist Well Being.\ 3!45 p.m. Bailey. 312. M. IfA Colloquium: \New Approaches to Providing Health Care Insurante.\ 4:30 p.m. Steinmetz 106. Physics ColioqlliiUil. 4:3() P·lll· SS016. Fa~ully ~olloquium: \The Tra<le Deficit and U.S. :Economtc Poltcy.• 8:00 p.m. Nott Metfiorial. Mountebanks pe)rr<lmance: '00dspell\. 1 8:00 p.m. Hale House. Cabaret. .Frldayf May t5 . · 3:3Cl p.m. Hum. 213 Philsophy Colloquia:: \I~t Rationing By Age Just?\ 7, ·.~~ .· t;l P·'IIL SSO:l6 .. FUm:. Running Seated, . &~ pJ!j .. N1* ID,efitotial. l\4ountebants pt1ftimllanct: \Godspell' 1 ~lM p.m. t!ale EonJ~e. 21 Clab. Saturday~ May Ui .. . . t):OO p~m. Old Chapel. {'bt ?eta ~appa f:!OCI<t~ilsiDinner. 7,. 9,. 11 p.m. SSIJ16. Fllm. Runrung S~eli. 8:00 p.m. Nott Memorial. Mountel»lnks perf<Ori'lla'ilCe: HGodspen«. 9:00 p.m. Hate flouSf:., 21 Club. · Sunday. May 17 U :30 a.m. Hale House Cowtyard. RA picnic. 2:00 p.m. SS016. Fr\ Inquirers Letture. 3:00 p.1n. Memorial Chapel. Empire State Repertory Oreheslta. 1~ !)t ~~ J:Mrt. $0016 . Fibn~ B.unnrr.& Scared. terrorist in.duced American deaths and for all terrorist bombings. Yet, in the Administration's disinform- ation campaign against Quadaffi, Q11adaffi was blamed for the terro-rist actions. The third. issue Anderson touched 011 was Reagan's pursuit of S.D.I. Why did Reagan reject, at the Icelandic Peace Conference, \the best peace packa,ge to be offered to any president\? Because ac- cepting it meant abandoning Routh, university director of financial aid at Yale states: \If anything, it's the recent decrease in Federal funds, not the longterm increase, that has I contributed to the high tuition increases in recent years.\ S.D.I. Anderson claims that the Soviets have a ten year lead in space and would have us believe that the Soviets are ahead of us in developing a Star Wars system. Anderson added that \we won WWII because we controlled the skies\ ; implying to this listener that he believes that WWIII can be won by controlling space. Ironically, he closed his lecture supporting the militarization of space, with the statement, \I believe peace is possible and the best years are ahead.\ FALL TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES Preregistration materials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be availabje at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday, May 15. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students !() have additional choices in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. lo PREREGISTER EVERY STUDENT WILL BE REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PREREGISTRATION FORM. IF THEIR ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDENT SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE HEAD OF THEIR ADVISER'S DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ c0ourses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on Wed., May 20. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest arad then should return to the departments on Fri., May 22 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admissted to a list coursae must get a reservation card from th~ department. In order to pick up a card you must have your preregistration form with you to be stamped !)y the department. You are not permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. 1'10 ONE WILL BE MlOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT SUCH A CARD. IHESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for an independent study or research requires completion of a form which is available in the Registrar's Office. h must be signed by the supervising faculty member and his/her chairperson . The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the lable affixed to the \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students may not preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Fri., May 29. Additional course changes may ne><t be made during the Drop/A.dd period at the start of the fall term. Stud-ents will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their \Preregistration Course Request Form\ (this form, filled out AND SIGNED BY THEIR ADVISER, must be brought to preregistration). Once ir:tside they should verify that the courses they desire are not closed .. If one or more courses are closed, they should selec.:t new ones and correct their p[reregistration form. Then, they st:lould see a staff member who will preregister them. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except graduating sdeniors, must give notice .of their plans to the Dean of Students. Potential December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the fall term. . i

:l P~ge 3 . CONCORDIENSIS,- May 14, 1970 Union Graduate Speaks At Minerva Lecture Series Comments on Importance of Local Gov't. Issues Continued from pag~ 1 money as weU. This is con· sidered outside income, and the system allows for this to occur .. Weintraub also added that an additionalreason for corruption in polltics was the rise of &want\ rather that \need\. Weintraub said that \time and • · time again popular inD dividualism grows into self indulgence~\ These days people 11re just out for themselves and not ·for the corrun.Uility. - fice-as in the office of president, one is limited to only two consecutive terms in office · and strengthening the two party system ate two more solutions. Another is the media: Wein- traub believes that \all of us to be better informed about our local' govemment'' and· the media could do a better job. Finally, if it is possible we ·should \get to know the dtaracter of our public of· ficiaJ.s.u Weintraub is president and publisher of Empire State Report Magazine, Inc. This company produces Empire State Report, Garden State Report, and Golden State Report, three magazines that specialize in politics and government. After graduating from Union he spent 5 years in Europe where he earned his Ph.D in politicalphilo5ophy and at the same time gained a very different view of government andp()liticsinthe United States. English Professor Frank Gado contributed to the newly proopsed General Education Cirriculum. - One . of his political . activities included a march to the ·G.E. plant in the late ()O's • The speaker did offer some . solutions to this .pmblem.. For example, if public· official was paid. more he coUld not claim that his job (as a public official) is only part time so he needs his outside income, and he could be prohibited from representing clients before official bodies. Also, political campaigns could be financed by the state which would eliminate certain kinds of indirect; bribery. Limiting the time. one could remain in of- · Political Science Professor John C. Laursen coinmented that the best thing about Weintraub's. speech was :his local angle. W-eintraub relate(! a personal experience he had as a Union College student. One of his .political activities included a march to the G.E. Plant to protest G .E.'s production of war Alternative Includes Languag·e Requirement Both Plans Stress Civilization Importance • supplies in the late 1960's. The workers did not support the students. One shop fQreman told Weintraub: \If you students .had supported us in any way • during our last strike, even by bringing us coffee and doughnuts, I would have had all . the workers but supporting you.\ Alpha Epsilon Pi Refused· Housing on Seward Alpha· Epsilon Pi fraternity owned by fraternity members members attended a Board of · would aggravate the problem. Zoning Appeals . meeting on They also pointed out that part·· Wednesday, May 6, to support a ies running late into the night bid for the renovation of 203 would create an overabundance Seward · for 20 fraternity of noise. The deed for the house members. Many Seward Place is restricted ·by a -stipulation residents turned out to offer that the property may . only be objections to the biq as well. · · used by· one family and 20 . ... ~e residents were 'concerned. , people living ther.e would create with .parking, traffic, ·aesthetic a great deal of garbage. and noise· problems that fraternity might create. It was Despite their coat and tie pointed out that many cars were · appearance, the fraternity was already illegally parked on denied the house at 203 Seward Seward and the addition of cars by a vote of IH), Spanish Table (Mondays) Italian Table (Mondays) Frencb Table (Tuesdays) German Table (Fridays). ·M·eet in Hale House Lower Lounge at 12:30 p.m. Continued from page 1 55 person class, meeting twice weekly, one lecture lUld one discussion. Emergence of. the _Modern World (EMW) would \give freshmen an overview of five centuries .of modern history\ and demonstrate the ''inter- relationships among art, science, philosophy, economics, technology and politics.\ It wowd·serve as a basis for future c.ourses and \might stimulate intellectual discussion among st.udents outside the classroom.\ EMW, Wider 'Gel Time, would meet 30 times each term, with half the classes being lectures to the entire freshman class and half being 20-student recitations. FWC would \encourage students to regard writing as a standard. and important in- tellectual skill rather than as an occasional hurdle to be sur- mo.un:ted.\ It is an element of Argument; that is, while Argument meets twice weekly ··for one term, FWC meets once a week for an entire year. The class would consist of 15 students; although ''much of the instruction will come in con· ferences with the individual st11dent.'' Freshmen would, Wider the requirements of this plan, receive three course credits for the requirements; one for the SERVICING • REPAIR OVERHAUI.ING one term of Argument and the three terms of Writing and one more for each term of EMW. General Education has 15 course slots to fill from its organizing theme, as compared ' to seven plus language-culture and Contemporary Issues in the Alternative. However, Wider General Education the student selects whatever · courses he wants, while the Alternative m~es part of that choice for the student. General Education requires 1 Freshman Preceptorial, 2 Symbolic and Quantitative Reasoning courses, 2 Science courses, 1 Applied Science and Technology course, 1 Social Science course, a two~course · History sequence, 1 Civilization course, 2 Literature courses, and 3 additional courses outside the department and the major. A notable difference between the plans is the alternative's emphasis on foreign language- culture. Both emphasize the civilization background; General Education's method is through a linkage of one-term courses of a· student's choice (from an approved group); the Alternative's method is one detailed, longer, specifically required course. _ Currently every member of the faculty has a copy of the alternative proposal; students are encouraged to examine it and pass along their views. Both plans appear in abbreviated . form on p. 9. St$ Andrews Fellowship Recipient Announced The 1987-88 recipient of the St. Andrews Fellowship is Joshua · L. Waldman '89. Waldman, a Biology-History major, was chosen for the year abroad scholarship out of a group of four finalists. The St. Andrews Exchange is a reciprocal exchange program for students and faculty members with .the University at St. Andrews, Scotland's oldest university. The exchange was MERCEDES BENZ • BMW AUDI• V.W. • HONDA established in 1937 and is celebrating its 50th an- niversary. The scholarship awards tuition, room, and board. Josh conunented on his year abroad next year saying that he's looking forward to at- tending one of Scotland's most prestigious schools, as well as being able to play rugby with Scottish students. MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE Only News Makes the Front Page ... Join Concordiensis News MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (518) 377·2268 (24 HR. TOWING· 374-1067) 349 ANTHONY STREET SCHENECTADV.NV12308 Any Student Interested in having a booth for Fitzhugh Ludlow Day's Flea Market May 22 10:30 a.m.-4 p.m. Library Plaza please contact Pat at 372-0172 or Mrs. Marra at Student Activities at 370-6118

r: 1 ·, ,. Page J CONCORDIENSIS, May 14, 1987 1970 Union Graduate Speaks At Minerva Lecture Series Comments on Importance of Local Gov't. Issues Continaed from page 1 money- as well. This is con- sidered outside income, and the system allows for this to occur. Weimttaub also added that an additkm.al reason for corruption in politics was the rise of \want\'' rather that \need\. Weintraub said that \time and time .again popular in- dividu~sm grows into self indulg•e!lce.'' These days people are just out for themselves and not for the community. - - One of his political . acti-vities included a mardt to the G.E. plaomt in the late 60's • The speaker did offer some solution£ to this problem. For example, if public official was paid rnore he could not claim that his job (as a public ofncial) is only part time so he needs his outsidie income, and he could be prohibited from representing clients before official bodies. Also, \POlitical campaigns could be fin.anced by the state which wouldi eliminate certain kinds of indirect bribery. Limiting the time one could remain in of- flee-as in the office o.f president, one is limited to only two consecutive terms ill office and strengthening the t vro party system are two more S()]\ltions. Another is the media: Wein- traub believes that \aU()f us to be better informed a bo11t our iocat' gevernment\ and the media could do a better job. Finally, if it is possible we shoulcl \get to knOtw the character of our public of- ficials.'' Political Science Professor John C. Laursen co:mmented that the best thing about Weintraub's speech was his local angle. Weintraub related a personal experience he had as a Union College student. One of his political activities imcluded a march to the G .E. Plant to protest G .E.'s production of war supplies in the late 1960's. The workers did not sup()o(lrt the students. One shop fQre111an told Weintraub: \If you students had supported us in any way during our last strike, Even by bringing us coffee and doughnuts, I would have had all the workers but Sllp[)Orting you.\ Alpha Epsilon Pi Refused· Housing on Sewarcl AlJrlla Epsilon Pi fraternity mem!lers attended a Board of Zonin.g Appeals meeting on Wed!Lesday, May 6, to support a bid f10r the renovation of 203 Sew!l!rd for 20 fraternity mernibers. Many Seward Place reside11ts turned out to offer objections to the bid as well. Tile lesidents were concerned with parking, traffic, aesthetic and noise problems that fraternity might create. It was point.e[J out that many cars were alrefudy illegally parked on Seward and the addition of cars owned by fraternity lf1embers would aggravate the problem. They also pointed out that part- ies running late into the night would create an overabmdance of noise. The deed for tbe house is restricted by a stipulation that the property may only be used by one family and 20 people living the~ee would create a great deal of garbag.e. Despite their coat and tie appearance, the fraternity was denied the house at 203 Seward by a vote of 6-0. Spanish Table (Mondays) italian Table (Mondays) French Table (Tuesdays) German Table (Fridays) ·Meet in Hale House Lower Lounge at 12:30 p.m. Weintraub is president and publisher of Empire State Report Magazine, Inc. This company produces E!Ilpire State Report, Garden State Repert, and Golden State Report, three magazines that specialize in poHtics and government. After gradaating from Union he spent 5 years in Europe where he earned his Ph.D in political philosophy and at the same time gained a very different view of govern.ment and politics in the United !ltates. English Professor Frank Gada contributed to the newly proopsed General Education Cirriculum. Alternative Includes Language Requirement Both Plans Stress Civilization Importance C011Hnued from pagt! 1 5!i person class, meeting twice weekly, one lecture and one discussion. Emergence of the Modern World {EMW) would \give freshmen an overview ()f five ce11turies of modern history\ and demonstrate the ''inter- relationships among art, science, philosophy, economics, technology and politics.\ It would serve as a basis fc.r future courses and \might stimulate intellectual discussion among stadents outside the classroom.\ EMW, Wider Gel Time, would meet 30 times each term, with half the classes being lectures to the entire freshman class and half being 20-student recitations. FWC would \encourage st11dents to regard writing as a standard and important in- tellectual skill rather than as an occasional hurdle to be sur- mounted.\ It is an element of Argument; that is, while Argwnent meets twice weekly for' one term, FWC meets once a week for an entire year. The class would consist of 15 students, although \mu•Jh of the instruction will come in con- ferences with the individual student.\ Freshmen would, umler the requirements of this plan, receive three course credits for the requirements; one for the SERVICING • REPAIR OVERHAULING one term of Argument and the three terms of Writing and one more for each term. of EMW. General Education has 15 course sl()ts to fill from its . organizing theme, as compared ' to seven plus language-culture and Contemporary Issues in the Alternative. However, under General Education the student selects whatever courses he wants, while the Alternative makes part of that choice for the student. General Education requires 1 Freshman Preceptorial, 2 Symbolic and Quantitative Reasoning courses, 2 Science courses, 1 Applied Science and Technology course, 1 Social Science course, a two-course History sequence, 1 Civilization course, 2 Literature courses, and 3 additional courses outside the department and the major. A notable difference between the plans is the alternative's emphasis on foreign language- culture. Both emphasize the civilization background; General Education's method is through a linkage of one-term courses of a student's choice (from an approved group); the Alternative's method is one detailed, longer, specifically required course. Currently every member of the faculty has a copy of the alternative proposal; students are encouraged to examine it and pass along their views. Both plans appear in abbreviated form on p. 9. St. Andrews Fellowship Recipient Announced The 1987-88 recipient of the St. Andrews Fellowship is Joshua L, Waldman '89. Waldman, a Biology-History major, was chosen for the year abroad scholarship out of a group of four finalists. The St. Andrews Exchange is a reciprocal exchange program for students and faculty members with the University at St. Andrews, Scotland's oldest university. The exchange was MERCEDES BENZ • BMW AUDI • V.W. • HONDA established in 1937 and is celebrating its 50th an- niversary. The scholarship awards tuition, room, and board. Josh cornrnented on his year abroad next year saying that he's looking forward to at- tending one of Scotland's most prestigious schools, as well as being able to play rugby with Scottish students. MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE Only News Makes the Front Page ... Join Concordiensis News r.AICHAEL W. CVOYLO (518) 377-2268 (24 HR. TOWING· 37~-1067) 349 ANTHONY STREET SCHENECTADY, NY 123()8 Any Student Interested in having a booth for Fitzhugh Ludlow Day's Flea Market May 22 10:30 a.m.-4 p.m. Library Plaza please contact Pat at 372-0172 or Mrs. Marra at Student Activities at 370-6118

_Page 4 CONCORDlENSIS, May 14, 1'987 ·~ SO NOW YOU'RE GONNA GO TO WORK- HERE'S HOW TO DRIVE NOW PAYLATER! Prior Credit History NOT NECESSARY! $0 MONEY DOWN! NO Payments Till August! SEE Salesman for Details CALL: 438-8461 ALBANY DODGE AT HOME OF THE 7 70 CENlRALAVE. PROTECTION PLAN ''THE TEAM THATCAN7 BE BeAT' Place A Personal? Third Floor Old Chapel, 50 Cents TheJSU'S Friday Night Lecture Series PRESENTS America, Israel Prize.Day Academy of lmerican Poeto. Pri·z:e •..•.. • • •• ! • J<er?:\i~ M: T;t:knor Joy E. ~unyon William r. ·Allen E•say Prize ............ I S~rbara ·A. Pond Ronald' Amiraian .Hecori'al Prize ...... ·• •••• Steven L. Hartmm_n And..rew w. Archibald Prize •••. • •••.•. ·• .••• Sarl:lara A. Pond. Arnoldy, Bittlaman· Memorial Pr~-u ... ·• .•.. Linda Fiaher oavid Brind· Memorial Prize,~ .•..•.• · • • ••• .-J<t!'r.rie M. Tic;:knor Barber~ \/1\ •• ·POnd Joseph D. Doty Pri::e~···· .................. Fr~d(!:rick J .. _ sura · Louis. P. Tremante !tahs Ha inebach Memorial Prize in Gen~an Literature· ....................... Ellen P. Ruffing !ians Hainebach Memor,ial Prize in Judaica .•.•.••........••..•.•.•. , .•. , ••••. Ellen M. Horn samuel !'$. Hi!s1ron• Prize .....•••.•...•..•••.• Devin N. Wenig ·!tisp~nic Society ot Schenectady Priee ...... tprra·iil-e Thomaa :John Iwan·ik Pr!-zoe .................. '\ . • • .(:hrystina czerwinskyj Wi·Uiam ·8, Jatte Ar.t Award .................. Mitchell .:r. Stein 'Elia~ Peissner Prize ................ ,, .... ~ •. Srian Fo Huqhes Charles Alexander Richmond Prizes Musi·c ..... o ............ Virginia G1ugliano Fino Arts •.•.• , ....... Linda Fisher D8niO:l Shop]S.~t Pr i'tts ........................ Kerrie M. Ti~knor Freli:ng H .. ·smi-th Prille •.••••• ~ .............. Fred~~tric ·8. Sia1lan wesael Ten Droeck Van Orden Pri·ze. • , • ........ Ananth V. Hudqil Eugen~ 1. Yudis Prize ....................... Joy ~· Runyon uerican society of Civil Eng1ntu!Z'll'1lJ Avlrd' ................................ \ ••..••••••••• Micl\&11!!1;1. .J., Danl:>ez:\g saauei s. ireuer Prize .............. ·~ •.•.•••• ~lchard M. Marcus Robart H. ruller Prizeo ••• - ......... -- ••••• Steven N. Lipoky (or.) ·~~eni B. Wolf (aoph.) Bruce M. Ga~bor Prize ........... ~ ............ Kina ton o .. Bl:iss Shankar Gokbal~ Prize ••• .o ................... ~draw I. )fen~J.e Charloli 11. llurd Prize •••• • •• •· •• ,, •..•.•••• John D- Bole Inqvar IS'UJV&ra•on Prh:e ••••••.• •!· .......... Virgini'a ·E. Ct'ocker warner Xing Prite ~ .............................. Kenneth' c. Budka Ethel JUr•ch•n.balUI Mellorte:l Prize- ...• , •.••• Timothy P. l.o~ry Will i'a!ll :E. Lasn-i·k Prize ...•••.•...•.•.•.•• Joseph P. Damore John Levh Karch P%-ize ...... , ••••..•.•.•.•• Paige s. ~Perkit:~s Edi·th EW.ile• .MacCoy Pri·z.eo .......... , •••••• Scott B. ·Elkind · Patricia A. ·Merritt Charles · ~·. Moore The Moles Pri·ze ..................... - .......... Gary p., VanAlst-yne R. E. ttorqan M~aorial 'Awat'd .•. .;..- .•.•..... J'effrey A! Strickrot-t: P&i Chi .service A'!/'&1'11. .... • .... , ~.- .••..•.•. Dawn H. Ch~pay M•rtin Tarry Resc}J Prite .•..•.•.. - ..•....... cynthia. L. CUrtts Robelrt L. Royal Aveu·tl., .. - •••••••. - ..•••. ,,, •. 3ohJ1 L. Silvernail Mortiaer F. 'Sayr• Priz~ •.••••. ,,,.,, ,. ,, ..... Johns. Zuk Dt. Reuben SorJt-in Award tor Proficiency in Pre .. dical $tudies .•....... Charles E. Moore Ralph til. Stearne ·Pril:e .•.••••••. - .•.•. •··-·• .Brereton E. Bissell hthleen n. Browne Paul s. Chang Ira V. Heft an 'Hark A. HUtchins Don.l!ld P. Orofino KAry Ann'T, Schiazza J'i.mee. H•nry 'Nrnbul.l Prize,. , ••..•••.•.•• , Rebecca ·A. Koopman· , Sing-Yun t.e Lee an4 14illia~~ wrubel Na-.orial :Priz•- ..... !jar•ab T. Gun.aratnam· Delphic Hon~r Socioty A~rdo ~··!>avid ·A. ~·rcy •Ks.rga.ret ·K ... Boi.tano catoly~ 1!1, ·Cerrone t>avid ~. GuU·iv•i: GMri L. Mack'!'Y t.ee A. Sclullidt .;r. 9onra4 \i'mt<J!I tlsrk G •. 'Wehstet ~: J~Witl M .. Br~dl,illy StOphon M. 8urcban .Jay M. Gto•ll•an · Stophon· :~. Lipaky J•ftny ·M-~ McFarland Gavin }(. Morton Su&an·M. Neumann John s. Zuk· wendy Bern11tein: Mtilllloria-1 A'Wttrd· •••••• , .•• , • ,Jc15l1UD. L .. \Ja·ld]l!an. 'Alan Lake q,.~dsey C:ithen&hip Award· •.••.•.• ~teven G. Mt?&s Fred·~rick B. ttawlay, Jt• ·Memorial cup ..•.• .\Jeffrey M. :McFarland Heri tori·ou• Service ·Awards •••••••••• , •• 1 •• Kenneth C. Bud)':.a LiSe E ~· Kaplan Ju·iie E. Mounta-in Steven G. Moss orena K. w•bster John s. Zuk 'Olttste.ndtnq Reoid8ht Advt~ot Awards ..••.•• Renneth r;. 'Budk~ R~c:hol Siegel Panhe:llenic Awa~a . Acad•aic· Ai:::hieve1lant .. •-•, •• , ............ ,, •• Delta ~Ita Qttl:ta co-~unity service· ............... , ... ~ ...... IHtltiS G&D;ll1 . Ex~r-acurrieular ~ctivities ............ ! •• s_~qma 'Delta Tau outot~mdinq Gro•k Woman ................ Meredith 'A, ·McCarty Calvin G. Scbal:dt A¥11rd .................... tee A. Sclllli<lt S'ilver Plate ·Award·~,_ ....... , ................. Pater ·J o~ RaU~ovaky Davie! lfag•n-••1:1. Kt~~or!al Award ••••.• ~ ••• ,. •• stev•!\ K. Black Frat! w·. Br:uhn· ·Pr:i.te ............... , • , •••• ,,, .• Richarc! J. Bar~Osch -Eaate~ <;:oll~9e· Atl~letic Conferenc~ . Medal of Merit.,,.,. ........ ,,, ... - • •• , .Deborah L. Hedin FrtShD&n Athletic Prize .• ··~····•·;4,, .... John·M~ Qoquen w.itlietn ·e· .. Jaffe Ked~l •..••.••••..•..•..••• -~le.xa.nder :1 .. Rita Wil:lia= A .. Pike 'M\morial 'l'rophy ....... !·•· •• R.ic:}'lard H. Romer Ronald· r· .. 'PlUJlb 14eDo.rial Prize., •..•• !,, .. Stev.e L. A:lves .Robert B. Rid-ings Ava;-d ................... ·Elatne B .. Pick J?r-ep.id.~nt·•s. Cotami ~f?ie>n Prizes Senior \'hesis Prite .••• , •••.•. , • , ........ -susan c .• Knol'l .Athletic ·J?roiuise ~ward .................... LOra l-· Anderson Co~Lit\i ty SerVice Awl;lrd, ............. ! ... chery·l' A. Marinello ·s.nior .Athletic A'-'ard .................... -E~aine B. ~ick Senior Scholarly t.ctivi ty A>rft~d .•.•• , •• cyntn!a t.. CUrtis ........ Daniel ·F. Pullman Prizes Engiiteerinq •• - •• , .... , ••.•.•.••.•.. p ••• 1 •• Mary A 1 Etten HUJaan.iti•s ................ , • , ••••••• , ••.•. J'Of~rey M. Resnick Frances. \lravie Meaoricil Award ................ Patrlc)'; .H. illlbet\t ~oratio c. Warner Prize .•...•.•...•.•....•. Betsy L. Fredericks G~orge .lL Catlin Prize.- ..... , •• , ....... , ...... Ad.riene Sh~h ThOIIIS 8. Swan \'o•eph !):a;gttt prize .............. , ............. Ada~· L. ~o11~an !'rank kiley Prize ........ _ ••••••••• ., •••••. ~ ~John ·P. ctovac:co IN VIETNAM ancl Terrorism with Prof. Brian Klunl< iA the Kosher Kitchen Friday. May 15 dinner at 6 p.m. le<:ture at 7 p.m. THE WIND DOESN'T BLOW IT SUCKS Tile 1ectu re is free. ANNOUNCING A NEW COURSE \Co11stitutional Law and Society in Brazil and the U.S.\ SOCIOLOGY 160 This rourse examines the United States and Brazil from the 1960's through. tile 1980's by comparing their consHtuiil)ns and the status or civil liberties in each country. The C()llrse instructor, Dr. Ester Kosovski, is a Brazilian lawyer and Professor of Law at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. Dr. Kosovski will be a Fulbright Fello\1/-in-Residence at Union College in the Fall term. This rourse is recommended especially ror majors in the social sciences and for pre-law students. TIME: 12:5().2:30 Tuesdays and Thursdays (Gel time #4) Liberal learning category ·rr FULL STAR~ING WARNEH BRO~ PResemSlANUY KU8RIC~'S FULL MHALJ~tKH MAHHfW MOOINE ADAM BAl~WIN VINCENT lfDNOfRIO lff ERMfY DORIAN HAflfWOOD ARUSS HDWAR~ K~.VYN MA.mn HOWARD. ED 01lOSS SCREENPl:~ SlANm KUBRICK MICHA[UHR cusrAv HASfO~~ ffi~~~8~mijr~~ GUSTAV HASfDRD co PRODUCER PKiliP HOB~ ~ijWu~J~ JAN UAnt~N Pft%PR~~~~~~ SfANUY'~~BRI[K ......... ...,.,!!>'lo!!!!~~·~\'\\'\'

CONCORDIENSIS, May .14, 1987 Page 5 Ode ·to the Graduates ByWENDYZIMDERMAN Graduation: a· word of many meanfugs. Of course the basic one being the end of a period of education, or m1>ving to the . abstract, walkirlg do:Wn the aisle in a cap and gown, and ending one phase ,()f your life and beginning a!lcther. Being that J atn a j:unior, these definltions or pet\ceptions are onesthatlhaveayearto wait to experience. Presently though, this ominous word .h:as taken on a new meaning for me; a separation from friends. Living with seniors has definitely been an eJ(perience I will have .no choice but to remember. No:w don't misunderstand rn·e, the ex• perience has been. positive and anything but boring. You might even be able to get away with . saying that I am g!)fu.g to have two senior years at Union. I have been able to experience the putting together of resumes, getting interviews, receiving acceptances as well as rejec- tions, and have been able to see Union through a set of eyes other than my own. Coming to Union as a fresh- man you have a lot of ex- pectations; some you . try to fUlfill, and some are p!JShed aside. Moving through your sophomore and jUIIior years you. begin to take advantage of the things that a,re here for you: eXtracurriculars, good courses, social activities, and people that you've always wanted to know. It seems that senior year at ·Union, you pull together all the ;people· and information you've gathered over the past three years and put them to use. It's a time to concentrate on you, and what you want, regardless of bGw it appears tG others; to form a link among all seniors, and take advantage of thmgs you only have a short time to experience. Pushing aside the obvious bardships,.it's.atime .()f reflection, relaxmg and .feeling comfortable with who you are, deciding what you want to do and how you're going to do it, taking advantage of every opportunity, and unfortunately being separated from people that you really care about. Tbis is where 1 can talk. from firsthand experience. I cannot even say 'I'll miss my friends' because it goes way deeper than that. When you~re with people day in and day out, yoU share a lot: experiences, . thoughts, and feelings. You · establish a bond that cannot be expressed in words or even shown in eXpression. It is just something inexplicable. But explicable or not, it is . something that I will always have with them, hopefully not r~lying on where we all end up. From where I stand, being a senior is ahnost like a separate education from your first three years at l:Jnion, but one where you yourself are the professor. I hope- that every senior here has done everything they've wanted to do and not let anything pass them ·by. It's better to never have the chanc.e than to let it Ca~eer DeveiOi:Jment Ct:n 1 er Alumni Career ·Panel By CATHYEEDNARIK Parents' WeekeJJ.d presented the Union College community with a variety of activities in which to partake. A very in- teresting preseatation for parents and students was the Alumni Career Pat1el sponsored by the Career Development Center. Four graduates from the class of 1983 spoke about ·their experiences at Union, how Union helped tllem in their present job, -what each felt about ~he first year after graduation, and a variety of other topics. After the paneliSts bad finished speaking, the discussion was opened fl)t questions at wbicb time many . interesting points w~re spoken about which had not yet been brought . up by any of the panelists. Of tile four panelists, three were women~ and tbe last woman to speak, .Randi Red· mond, was by far the most captivating. Redmond graclWlted with an . Electrical Engineering degree in 1983, and no~ workS in the Aerospace and New Product\' Development Department of the G.E. international marketing group. She said, ''I knew . my engin.eering skills couldn't carry me in a career, but I stt1ck with the major. Union let me recognize that you can take a degree and expand it.\ Part of her job involves reading and. writing technical reports, so her engineering skills are used, but not as a means of deSigning new prOducts. She also gave some good advice to people headed out for. interviews. ''Don't turn down a job before you have it. Go in to every interview and make them think it's the best offer you've ever had. It's after you've been offered three or four jobs that you can be picky.\ The first speake.r was G.G. Gereau.Carroll. She graduated as a Bio-Psychology major, and went oil to graduat~ schOol for psychology. While at Union, she discovered, \Life has many opportunities and Union showed me how to <>pen doors. People here are open to starting new things. A few friends and I . saw how fraternities dominated the campus_ and decided Union needed sororities. I was one of the charter sisters of Delta Delta Delta. Union was also lac,ung in women's Soccer .and cheerleading which I also took part in founding.\ She also gave a good piece .of advice to the graduating senior. ''Don't be afraid to try new things. Your first job does not have to bethe one you have forever; it should be your first experience in deciding what you'd really like to do.\ Next to speak was Julie Ann Isgro, who was a Political Science major and after Union, went on to Albany Law School. She now practices in Schenectady, in a general full serVice law office. She had a very positive view of Union, both academically and non· academically. \I view Union as a life experience. I really learned to communicate here as well as obtaining a strong academic backgroWld.\ Her piece of advice to any student here was, ''You can do anything with your major. I was sure only Political Science maj9rs got into law schgol so I did not major in English. But I found that English n~11y have been more beneficial. Union taught · me to think and be confident; any education you can get here will be qualitY~\ The only male speaker was · Adam storke, an English major turned actor. He never intended ,t() go to · college but was per- suaded .by his father. He said: \Union was the best thing I've ever done. It was a place to find out what my ideals were. Most professors took time and patience to help out the student - Barry Smith especially-he introduced me. to the theater and because Union 'The La~ndry Room ~m:~;n~~~o~~~~todoalotof Overall, the four graduates 2329 Uan IJranlce n Oue~, Schenectady had only positive comments . about how Union had helped OPEN7 DAYS A WEEK them. It is true that because we 7 A.M.~9 p.M. MON.-FRI. a A.M ... 'S P.M. SAT. & SUN. are a small college, there are a PHOt-IE 382·8566· lot of opportunities available: all one really needs to do is look • Featt~ring SPEED (llJEEN washers & dryers for them. With a little effort and . K U . p· SERVI .. CE ingenuity, a Union education For Your ConveniEmce •• : PIC • · . · · worked positively for these four Available far Wa.sh. Dry & Fold people, and can work positively ~.- __ ........ _....._ ___________ ..__ ______ ...... for any student who cares to do til~ same. FEATURES A sam pi i111g of the graduates of 19~7 slip.awray. With everything I've seet12n!lexperienced this year 1 shn>uld have no problem han· dling meld year. I feel very fortu~u:ate to have this special infom.ation andi wouldn't have wa11ted it from anyone other th8JI tile people who allowed me to ~hare it, and they know who they are. Graduation is a mere 31 days away and I despet·ately llope that every senior who 'Walks up to get his diploma can look back at their f«JW' years at 1Jnion With good. memories and no regrets. -·-:: :: Get Involved Early With the- Freshman Class rh~s $uhime~tfnton J\ia~ni will be .. ': •· ._. _ spon:s-ot!n9 ~\get .. tg-gether$'~ for<the class of· ·1991 :~.·-w(a>are · lookh1g for students. . · inter$st,$:d in·particip~lingshoulo there be .. · an: event in their area.<: • . . Motlivate, }iridhelp.:ge·t ·the Freshman Class:psYch.ed tor u~~on! - - : . . '. . .; : . . . . . ; ;.: - - - - : = : .- If in.tei'ested please call .. :. -: ·_ ;: · ::·Kevin x4472 : .. Julie x4011 '87-'88 German Exchange Program t Iv.lleh.ael E . .Zeller, a Class of 1989 Modern Languages major at Ullliell College,· is studying in ·· Ger,ioany for the 1987.;8f1 acadaemic year under the Fedtt-rmtion of German- Am.eailcan Clubs Exchange Pl'l)gl'lllil. Zell~r is the son of Hans and Gert Zeller of 924 HillsdalE A 'Ven11~, Hillsdale, N.J. He is il 1985 ~ra.duate Df Pascack Hills mg:n S:chool. 'rlle Federation ExchangE allo.\Ws two students witl\ dEIIliJ!Uitrated competence i11 Gerooan to study in an:y disc:Lpline, · normally their majo1~ for the entire academic: y'tlar . They are placed iJJ v~tri()l~ German universities 8(C91'<1ing to ttaeir expresseti pref~rence, as Well as tB.4! F'ede!ration C()mmittee's view.()! whie:h university has tlte str()llg~st program in their ar~ of. interest. · Jeffrey J. Hurd., a Class ()f 1989 Political Science· Economics major at Union College,is studying in Germany for the 1987-&l academit year tmder the Federaticm of Ger· man-American Clubs Ex<!hange Program. Hurd is the son ()f Calvin and Sandra Hurd of 3078 Scar· borough, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He is a 1985 graduate of Cleveland Heights High School. J.S.U. Members Rem em be.r the Lag B'Omer Picnic · Sunday, May 17, in /acksolt'~ Gtzrden 5:00-6:30 p.m.

Page 6 · CONCORDIENSlS, May:. 14, l!JB1 Not More C,onstruction • • SUBMITTED By DAVE WASSER, ROBBIE BLINKOFl\ and MESERVE PLA'M' pl~aSing as possible, and we believe that the proposed changes are unnecessary. First of all, the ad- ministration's proposed access .rCJad Will definitely take away fr()m the beauty of Jackson's Garden. The noise and air pollution created by trucks constantly goingto and from the new college center will be damaging to the vegetation and detrimental to tlle beauty of would ·be left. THIS CAN EASILY MAKE UP FOR THE SPACES WlliCH WILL BE LOST DUE TO 'THE POSPOSED ADPITIONS TO THE COLLE.GE; We recognize the fact that some grass will be lost by expanding. the Richmond lot. However, it is not nearly as aesthetically pleasing as either of the two proposed areas. Also, it is a fraction of ~he space occUpied by the two areas presently proposed as parking spaces. · Dr. Avery ·of Rarvarc:i University On Monday afternoon, $ix wooden pegs appeared on the grassy .field between Wells House and McKean House. Upon inquiry~ it has been discovered that these pegs are marking out an area where a new parking lot is to be built within six months. The following . is an article which. was distributed .by the Student Environmental Alliance in 19114. · that area of the Garden. There are already two major road$ wl:licb give access to Carnegie Hall,. one. that go-es. along Alumni Gym and the other which goes betw~en the fieldhouse and the :hockey rink. Grante<l, these m~y have to be alte~ed for the increased use, but this seems to be a sniall .sacrifice · considering the potential damage to JacksQn's Garden. Int·eresUngly enough, the administration's main reason for building these parkirig lots is oneofconvenience. However, if the women wno life in Rich• mond,. who pay thousand$ of dollars to come to school at Union,. can walk from that. area to anywhere they have to go, there is no reason why school employees, visitors, and other students cannot walk from Woodrow Wilson -Fellow to Visit Union Dr. Mary Ellen A very, Thomas Morgan Rotch Professor at Harvard Medical School, will be at Union next Monday, Tuesday, and Wed- nesday, May 18-20, as a Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow. All interested students, faculty, and staff are en- couraged to attend the several classro()m and group sessions at which she will be a guest speaker. liberal arts to pre- professionalism. outside in- terests include travel, politics, developing countries, .and Eskimos. As a Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow, Dr. Avery is a part of a prestigious national program to ~elp student prepare to be productive citizens in both the public and private spheres. For more . than a decade, the program has striven to bring about closer relations between the academic and non- academic worlds, between campus and community. Distinguished Fellows to Union over the past few years have . included Jacqueline Trescott, reporter for th~ Washington Post; Alan Williams, Vice . President and Executive Editor of G.P. Putnam's Sons; and Harold E. Horan, Former Ambassador to .. Malawi and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State. Next fall the Union Community can look forward to a visit from Nora Sayre, nationally known writer and film critic. An Alternative Proposal For Chang_,s On Uillon Conege Campus . ' The members of the Student . Environmental Alliance are very concerned, about the proposed changes to the Union College Campus. Upon con· fronting the administration, we have uncovered many details concerning some of the changes that will damage the aesthetic beauty of the campus. These proposed changes consist of the following: 1) a road that would extend from the inteli'section of VanVranken Ave. and Nott St. through part of Jackson's Garden to the new campus center (see map for more details) 2) a parking lot bet· ween McKean House (KA) and Wells House 3) a parking lot by Garis Field. To many of the people here at Union, the school is. a haven fro.m the city life of Schenec- tady. The spacious lawns and beautiful gardens offer an escape from city streets and the hustle of city life. Yet, the ad· ministration is planning to dig up some of these areas and fill them in with unappealing pavement. We would like to keep Union as aesthetically Secondly there is the issue of tbe parking lots. From our estimates, the school will be lCJsing approximately 140 parking spaces with the e2dst;ing plans. This includes 60 parking. spaces lost by the extension of Alumni Gym, approximately 53 of the 106 spaces now existing adjacent to physical plant, and 27 spaces lost behind Carnegie Han when the new campus center is built. Because ·of the parking sp~ce loss, the ad~ ministration has proposed the two new parking lots. However, the administration seems to have forgotten the enormous parking lot behind Riclunond dorm. This spacious, yet ·seldomly used, lot can presently accommodate 130 spaces. With some work, we estimate that it co.uld accommodate 190 spaces. Based on our observations of a typical day at Union, about 40 spaces of this lot behind Rich- mond are used. With our proposed expansion, 150 spot~ there as weil. · · · . Recently, the administration removed a dumpster near Psi Upsilon because it was an eyesore, yet now they ate willing to pave over grass fields to make pavking lots. The groWlds of Union College, the gem of Schenectady, should not be paved over out of con- venience only. For abnost two hWI(ired years this college has existed, designed at its in- ception to have a classically pleasing aesthetic design, and. soon almost none of the original intent will be left. We urge the administration, students, and faculty of Union College to stop the~e prQposals from.. being carried out. Sincerely, The Student Environmental Alliance Since receiving her M.D. degree at Johns .Hopkins, Dr. Avery has held several post- doctoral fellowships and many academic and hospital ap- pointmilnts. She has been a research fellow at Harvard and Johns Hopkins, a Professor of Pediatrics at Johns Hopkins, McGill, and Harvard, and Physician-in-Chief at Montreal Children's Hospital and at The Children's Hospital, Boston. She has also received honorary degrees from many schools, amolll! them Michigan, Trinity, Radcliffe, Harvard, North- eastern, Russell Sage, and Albany Medical College, and has delivered over thirty named lectures at schools throughout the United States and Canada. She lists among her chief professional interests: premature birth and babies, the role of children's hospitals, pre- medical education, women in medicine, pre-medical education, and the relation of A New Addi(ion: International House DR. AVERY'S SCHEDULE Monday, May 18: 10:30-11:20 Talk/discussion on \Adventures in Research on the Deve!Dping Lung\ for Biology 154 in Butterfield 300. 4:00-5:00 Talk/discussion on \W<lmen in Medicine\ in Career Development Center; Tuesday, May 19: 1:30-3:20 Talk/discussion on \Motherhood and Infancy\ for Sociology 168 in Social Sciences 012. 7 :300pen discussion with Dean Willard Roth on \Pre-medical Education\ in Library Music Room. Wednesday, May 20: 1:30-2:20 Talk/discussion on \Newilord Infants, Premature Babies\ for Biology 11 in Bailey 106. - Wanted: Student Security Workers Contact Chris at x4106 or Michele· at x4481 ByCA1'HYMARKES 1987-88 will be the first year in which Union C.ollege will in- corporate an International House into its housing alter- natives for upperclass Union students. Recently, five students submitted the proposal for International House and this week, the Office of Residence Life approved their idea for housing this fall. The students who organized to write this irmovative proposal are Matteo Coveri-Abbondio, Nicholas Boch 1 Maggie Boitano, Jen Izzo and Chris Hartmann. It is their hope that International House will make Union a more internationally aware com- munity by allowing the bouse to be a center for international activities on campus. The \house\ will be located on the first floor of Webster House, which has a capacity of housing twenty-seven students. Half of the students living in International House will be American, and the other half will be foreign. Within this balance, it is hoped that mutual cross-cultural intera~ion and understanding can occur. The students who will be living there in 1987-88 are currently being selected by the student coor- dinators who are metnioned above. · One of the lounges of Inter-· national House will be open to the Union community, and will have for~ign newspapers and magazines available, as well as coffee. .In addition, the Inter- national House students will sponsor weekly dinners for. Union facUlty and students who express an interest, and fQreign films will be shQwn regularly. lt is also intended that all Term ATTENTION LADIES! Jj Gamet M;nstretJes will be h. olding auditionsF· for next year's group during 8th week. · Come hear us sing on the steps of Memorial Chapel, Sat. at 12:30 STAY TUNED FOR MORE AUDITION INFORMATION Abroad informational meetings may be held at International House each term. Overall, International House anticipates helping foreign students in adapting to a new environment, while educating .American students as to the cultural similarities and dif- ferences ·of people of other nations. With International House on campus next year, 1987-88 shoUld prove to be a year of renewed international ex- change not only for this select group of students, but .for the entire Union community. Since such a large proportion of students take advantage of Terms. Abroad, we now have somewhere on our own campus in which to continue to broaden our international experiences. R.ock-n-Roll PIJJ8 & Sub Shop wants YOUR opinion! *BrQwnies given while supplies last. 37o-~060 Participate in this survey.and receive a FREE Brownie! * ---·-~------------ 1 • :Name ------- • , What hew item would you like to see at thePIZZA PUB? What.item would you like to see go? -----------------~ ·.1 I·\ ' .. 1 :i '; ,I •l ~

I ~' ·; ,, '! I·\ ' \ ,J CONCORDIENSIS, May ~4, 1987 · Page 7 FEATURES Orphaned On Parents' Weekend By MARJORIE HOFFER On vlsiti.Qg day at my sum- mer camp, I felt sorry for those campers whose parents did 11ot come. The abandoned youngsters did not receive h~e packages of illegal things lile food, nor did they have the jCJy of seeing their Mom and Dad in 'between their eight weeks ,of isolation. Well, here I was this year, at college, facing the fact that I was to be Orphaned ()n Parents' Weekend. After two annual parents' weekends; II)Y ·parents had had it. I do not blame them. My parents do not enjoy the regular form, of entertainment. I may preface this by .stating t~at l have a very ;young,, younger sister. Last year, when rny parents came, we began O>Ui' weekend by dining at The Pati(). It turned out to be a bit too fonnal. My one and a half year old sister (at the time) enjoyEd ner Nachos. But with a face f11ll of tomato· sauce, she ran armrnd the tiny restaurant sticking Iter face in between the slots of tlle chair backs. Unfortunat·ely, there were other people sittmg in the chairs. We ended tlle evening at my parents' favorite store, Price Chopper. My mother is more excited in t]le bin food- section than I am. My father, immediately feeli11g more at home in the super· marketthan at his almu mater, grabbed a cart and .~gan ,his usual Saturday - · mor-nmg grocery shopping. So, while my friends were enjoying the usual evening's festivities at tlle speaker, or the cabaret, or at an elegant dinner, I was following my father through the paper· goods aisle, as he bought three weeks' worth of paper towels and toilet paper. One hundred dollars later,. -we left the store, and I listened tCJ my ·father's analysis of the inner workings of Price Chopper. It was nine at nigllt; bedtime for the folks, so tlley dropped me off at. school and they went to sleep. The nelet morning at eight o'clock, my parents deposited my little sister in my room, .kissed me a thank you for volunteering t() babysit (I did?) and began th:eir ·hour and half morning jog; '[')te major problem of the babysitting session was that my sister did not really recogni~e me too· well, and did not fEel very comfortable with me. I let her play with the phone, put on my makeup, and she played with my roommate's Mr. J?otat() Head. But nonetheless, after a little while she began to cry l()r my mother, and she woke up my suitemates. . _ . The highlight of the afternCJon was g~iing to my fa~h~t·s fratermty house, and fmdillg that the desk be had built in a closet was still there, even though his fraternity wasn't. Fortunately, my sister took a nap, and we were all in go()d spirits for the evening's ~l')er at Coco's, a very swtable .Attention Union Workers A man.dci.tory meeting of all student workers will beheld Thursday, May 2.1 ot 4:30 p.me in 55014 remaurant for little children. After. all, they have balloons. That night, while everyone else was Rocking the Ramada, I was upstairs .in the bathroom with my feet on the edge of tub, covering my toes with a wash· cloth, making ,my sister hysterical in her bath. 1 probably still had a better time than most people. So .that's why my parents did not feelli~e giving the wheels of the ol' station wagon a spin this year. But, it did not matter. I still spent som.e quality time with them by goipg home. My little sister now .knows who I . am, even though she thinks I go to schooHn England. Of course, instead of being wined .. and dined at S()rne half•way decent restaurant, [ ate cold pizza and caffeine-free Diet Coke. But be honest, how many of you ·are really thrilled wbep your parents come? Aren't you embarrassed that your Dad picked the wrong day to wear his polyester pants, and that your Mom came up in the ''latest thing from the Limited Express that only cost $9.99\? It is a lot more enjoyable to have all of your family quirks remain where they belong, AT HOME. . .'){ ·,;;. Parents and students listening to Minstrelles after Prize Day Prize Day By LORI RICHARD Amongtbis weekend's special events was the traditional Prize Day Ceremony, which took . place on SatUrday morning, Arpi19th. The ceremony, held in Memorial Chapel, marked the annual event which r<Ecognizes those Union students who have demonstrated superior ability in various fields. In particUlar, Prize Day honors Union College seniors who have achieved excellence in areas including academics, and athletics, as well as awards those students who have made significant contributions to the Union College community as a whole. As noted in a welcoming address, presented by William G. Butn~ ('~4), ~airman of the Union College Board of Trustees, Prize Day offers an opportunity not only ·to honor those individuals who have . shown growth and dedicated at Union, but also provides an opportunity to realize the aims of Union College to produce well-rounded successful in· dividuals who are well prepared for future challenges. The seventy awards included prizes in the Arts, Humanities, Natural Sciences, Psychology, Engineering, Foreign Language, Athletics, and Student Government and other activiti~s; and were presented (in the -following order) by Dr. Willlam J. Daniels, Associate Dean of Undergraduate .Studies; Dr. Willard J. Roth, AssoCiate Dean of Undergraduate Studies; Steven G. Moss, President of the Student Forum.; Joseph L. Mammola, Dean of Students; Richard Sakala, Director of Athletics; Sigrid Kellenter, Associate Professor of German and Co-chairman of President's Commission; and President John s. Morris. Congratulations to all the Prize Day recipients on their commendable work! Philosophy Forum on ... · Just an Education By CHIDSEY DICKSON When the Gado curriculwn was published in complete form I dtew a deep breath and wondered out loud if $16,000 was really enough money to com· pensate for the wondrous academic labyrinth Which promises to entangle, impinge, and frustrate the stude\-t beyond all accepted measures. 1 realize the Administration, in conjunction with the Dean of Students, the department heads, at1d the Registrar is under obligation of school policy to non·discriminately ad- ministrate to every matriculating student their share of ·aggravation and distress. I alSo realize that assigning one's courses is the next logical step in reducing the status of the student to that of the invalid, but, as long as I · have two healthy legs on which to stand and a brain with which to think, I would much prefer to reserve those freedoms. This much will not appear in the Admissions brochure because there you'll find only acceptance and warmth ~tm every slick page along With tidbits of rich U.C. history and progressive non-discrimination policies that welcome everyone. But to what? What kind of academic program calls on teachers to play the roles of T.A.'s, and students to . run . extensive formal logic routines before they can even walk through he subject matter to gain their proper·bearings? We won't have to worry about particulars if the Gado plan does not pass but still the larger questions re~ain: . Why the bureaucracy m adding, drop- ping; changing . cl\'s~e~-YJhY the absence of mmor diSCiplines and the presence of ineffect~ve interdisciplines-why the. brtck Wall, the shackles and the leash? Why does the College. so love a cage? To understand what tlie motivation behind restricting the student's freedom on whatever accotmt, be it with our example, the liberty of designing a curriculum suitable to their own needs and ple-asures, you must first consider the various roles in· volved: Role 1: student-admin.: this is essentially a· contract relationship between two equals where a fee rendered will entitle one to the terms hitherto agreed upon by the other with failure on either part constituting a dissolution of the contract and the end of a perfectly blind and disinterested liaison. (To defend what could be construed as an ungenerous interpretation of the Administration's attitude ·re: the student; I needlessly cite last year's veto override of Gel Time which vovokes m~ny to ask if the student body eXIsts at all since their opinion is given so little weight). Role 2: student-teacher: this is a nonexpert-expert relationship with the te.acher ,plaYing either a p~temistic or a fiduciary role 'depending upon their arrogance and .. or the irresponsibility and ineptitude of the student. It 'is believed by some that there also. or. instead exists a unspoken-unwritten contract in the classroom which bears the responsibilities of each to the other-a mode of conduct or a set of restrictions · that ensure good exchange and with any luck promote an en· tbusiasm for the subject. Role 3: teacher•admin.: this can only be seen as a contract relationship between .two equals and has little to ·do with ths question of freedom betore us now- I mention it only because I feel that it alone is emphasized in many decisions that effect more the other two roles. As a result, I .have grown to sus~ect more of a corroborative. possibly a sinister, relationship between adininistrational and educational ~perts and their adversarial partners in the whole learning process, the studepts. For those of you who think this is a bit far out, tJUnk about your own relation to your teachers and your college. One gets a grade from a teacher either by 'earning' it or by soliciting it or maybe a little of both. Regardless, the prevalent attitude vis-a-viz performance and grades is an attitude of give and take with little to nothing shared. The same prevails with the College which gives . you a degree for the doubly difficult price of both an intellectual and a financial expenditure. United We Stand: Given the three roles, it seems that what . we, as educators, ad- ministrators, students, or parents, have to concern our· sieves with over and above all else is how to provide the most conducive setting for exchange. Not a 'give n' take' kind of exchange where thing~ are merely traded--insights. ren· dere~ qp for notaracy re~ard or. • 1 participation ' and attendance· 'graded' on the mistaken basis of what it shuuld mean to be in class and be actively involved. Rather, an exchange that .comes of a contracted agreement on both parts to - - - work consistently towards some mutually beneficiary goal. Just as surely as there is a break- down in the process when teachers work primarily for pay, equal disaster ensues when the student works primarily for the grade. 'lbere are ways of down· playing the reward in hopes of saving the integrity of the proc-ess. One, of course, is to let . go those teachers who rely on the Grade as a motivational or disciplinary tool. Send them back to high school where their method is par for the course among ailing grandmothers, spinsters, and . part-time pedagogues. Anything you do to reduce the friction bet ween the roles will invariably facilitate the learnipg process. This might mean leaving the students to choose .the majority of their curriculwn. It might mean that the Administration and department heads treat of the students on an individual basis and dispel the myth of 'what's go(Jd for the student body is ... ' or phr~sed another way, \the school policy is the school's policy and cannot be yielded upon the oonsideration of the one when it is the whole that interests us.\ Neither of the quotes were taken directly from the mouths of the horses involved, but they all but evidence the feeling of the Experts to their suppliants. --. -- - NEED EXTRA CASH? -We are looking for students who \Vant to earn some fun, easy money! Students who would like to work on ReUnion Weekend (June 12 and 13) please stop by the Alumni Office or call Sharon or Kerry at 6163. -- - - - \0 ·e .r:; 0 rJJ c c < Q) CD ....J >. .c 0 0 .c 0:

Page 8 CONCORDlENSIS, May 14, 1987 ' . ~ - --- ---.- - LETTERS f'ounJni \' llnwn Col,. 18'!7 ------ _......._~ \--···- -. Film ·Fiasco Criticized To the Editor: . Combining Our F-oundation Through~ut 1)1)' ~ yem; . . ... • . . · . · here at Umon, Ihav~ seen m~y and I. We all waited patiently for about. hBlf an hour until it was realized that we· were juSt. wasting our tlme since the projectionist failed to show ~p. Figuring that somebody forgot to do his-her job, most of the same people who eXpected to see the 7 o'Clock; showing, returned at ·9 :00. At this time, probably .about three-.fourths of the ~uditorilUD was filled. ·Once again, we waited,. Ulltil' £inally one individual, Pete .Ralbovsky, took the initiative. Not on the film committee, he and a couple of his friends llllbinged the projection room door and got in. They also got the screen down without a key and eventually they projected the movie by 9:30. Pete shotild be com- mended for his. actions since the moVie•WIJluld not have been Sf:len Saturday, if it were not for him. I real.ketbat mistakes·can be made 81ld that people · can forget. :B.11t this mistake which occureed oil Parent's Week~nd was an embarrassment to the . school.. Perhaps two people instead ohne, should have been assigne~ projectionists. last weeketJ.d. ·Furthermore, the team lea:der of the film com- mittee f()rtheweek shoUld have double ·Checked to see ·that everyt~illg . was running smootbly. At least some measure sb.ollld be taken in the futlme .t() Pf~Vent one person's mistake from ruining many people's·chance to see a movie, W lthOur Fu. t-.u. ·r· .e ofthe~ampus~OVleS. The_film comnuttee, which runs all of the On June 1st the faculty will vote on a new curriculwn proposal. Currently there are two diverse proposals · which. must be carefully critiqued m the upcon:ung weeks. · The Union community now has the Curricular Alternative Committee's report, and it is an im- pressive result of ten weeks-of work by Professors Gado, Ta1111, Peak, Lewis, Snow, and student Cynthia Curtis '87. The report appears to be a return to traditional beliefs about education, a move that many believe is long overdue. · The Gerteral Education proposal presents a much different plan. It has been hailea by many faculty ~s the progressive stef forward ~hat Union academtcs need.. Genera Education also represents. much time and effort on the part of Professors Zwicker, Sorum and many, Ql811)' more. They should also be commended for their efforts to create a stronger and more cohesive educational ·program. The two plans represent the \Core Curriculum vs. Distribution Reguirements\ debate of Sep- tember 1~85. The Alternative proposal is a core curriculum,. with some variation, that holds that a few specific requirements . will best provide an intellectual basis that students today seem to need and sorely lack. On the other hand the General Education proposal is a distribution requirement, that requires more courses but allows for choice. It groups courses around a theme. For a more detailed description, see the article on page one this week, and last week, and numerous editorials We cannot emphasize enough how vital this decision is to Union's future. The next few weeks the faculty will discuss and debate and eventually decide which plan will go into ~ffect. Unless a majority of the faculty vote in favor of the alter- native, the General Education wilfbe in effect as of the 1988-89 school year. That would not necessarily be bad. General Education, after over a year and a half of work, is a strong and probably effective educational statement. But the faculty should not overlook the alternative. It addresses needs that all of us recognize-a need for a sound, common basis for future work, a need to understand the outside world that every day looms more important in our country's future. Union also needs to look into the future, however. It needs to make another resounding statement as it did with SAT's. Simply usin~ traditional ideas, no matter how sound tfiey are, Is not enough. Some of the sharpest, most innovative minds at Union devised General Education. A few more got together and produced the Alternative proposal. We should not ignore the effort~ of either group. As the faculty meet formally and mfonnally they should . attempt to combine the best ideas of both plans. students should encourage that discussion, m and out of class. Just by fostering an attitude of concern Students can aid in the decision, to say nothing of offering ideas. We at Concordiensis would hope to see some response in these pages in the next two weeks, as Professors Gado and Zwicker have begun this week. It is a waste of what Union has to offer if we do not somehow merge our strong tradition with our vision of the future to create an improved educational curriculwn. Alumni Representatives. '87 'Elected· Seniors Ben Budka and Gavin Morton have been elected . the class -of 1987's Alumni Council Representatives. Both candidates stressed the belief that alumni interest and participation is important to Union's continued advance- ment In his election statement Budka writes: \One way to improve the program at Union is to have open chan- nels of communication between alumni and the college . administration.\ Morton .echoes Budka's sentiments in his election statement: \The input of the class of 1987 is important and I would like to bring our viewsback to the administration.\ Congratulations are in {)rder to Ken and Gavin and tile entire class of 1987. movies, has done a very good job. They are on time, they change reels almost on- noticeably, and have sbown ·themselves to be a very responsible committee. However, lastSat'urday night on · Parent's Weekend, irrespon- sibility seemed more the word to describe the filln conunittee. At seven p.m. the movie \Crocodile Dundee\ was. supposed to be shown. About half of the auditiroum (88..016) filled up wjth parents and students· including my f~y Eric Fefferman '90 Projectionist Apologizes for Mishap · Dear Editor: I would like to apolqgize for the incidents of last Saturday . night's showing of \Crocodile Dundee~\ I was originally scheduled to be the projectionist that evening. D11e to my in- volvement with Godspell, I was not able to be there to Show the movie and unfortunately I misunderstood that another projectionist would be there to replace me. This led to a series of unfortmate incidents and I would like to elQ;end my sin~ cerest a~logies to those af- f~ed by thls. Sincerely, Rebekah Thayer Exceptional Prize Candidate's To the Editor, ConcordieDBis: On last Saturday, Prize Day, the George H. Catlin Prize was awarded to two seniors of great . promise, Tom Swan and Adrienne Shah. The Catlin Prize, decided by the Com- mittee on the Standing- of . Students, is given each year to a senior of high academic standing who plans a career in college teaching. Sometimes the available funds are divided, as they were this year. This year the Committee faced the very diffictilt problem of deciding among five truly outstanding candidate·s, nominated in strong letters by· their departments. The total list was Tom Swan (Psychology), Adrienne Shah {Classics), Cindy Curtis (Mathematics), Dawn Tamarkin (Biology), and Kerrie Ticknor (English). I write on behlf of the com- mittee to say that at no tinle, 1n the longest ·of our memories, have we seen such a truly im- pressiv:~ set . of candidates; supported with such warm lettersof tecommendation from ' their a<lmirers in the faculty. The selection was long and difficult, but it was a delightful difficulty- to choose from these impressive seniors. We left our meeting with a .glow of ad- miratio:n, wishing only that we could bave been equally ge.nerous .to all five nominees. . . So WE thought we'd telt'the world. Alan Nelson Department of English F~culty: Enthusiasm, Not Discord To the Editor: During the neld: three weeks, we expect much debate over the relative merits of the proposals issued by the Subcouncil on. the Curriculum and the Curricular Alternative Committee. The proposals are distinctly dif- ' Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial .. board of -- , .. _CO.IIC~rclien$iS Aft L1tten h ... Etlltor must .. typed tloullll .. spaced and suiHnltt•d lay 4 P·•· eacll Tues4ey laefan pftlcation. All · .. tten Milt\ ....... ., ..... :tlllll f• peo,le _. • writers ....,. . .,..w. thlr ...... IHt ..... .. .... ra.,.. t• ... ......_., •. ·letter. ..... ... . ..., ............... . ~n~~n•• ... ...... te ntect lettll'l - ............. IIIII ... .. to., ........ ...... ferent in underlying philosophy, and the decision will affect the direction of t!te college's future. We sho'uld take it as a good sign that positions are being ad- vanced with a. fervor that bespeaks vitality. Fervid commitment, however, should not develop into acrimony. We. \u-gethe campus to fix on the issues, and to be guided by concern for the enhancement of General Education. Sincerely, . Franlt Gado .. Bill Zwicker . ' I

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May 14, 1987 (Jlnmrbirnsis F~ at Umon Cell• Ill;'?' ---- -~----···- Combining Our Foundatio With Our Future On J1rne 1st the facmty wUl vote on a new curriculum proposal. Currently there are two diverse proposals which must be carefully critiqued m the upcoming weeks. The Union community now has the Curricular Alternative Conunittee's report, and it is an im- pressive result of ten weeks-of work by Professors Gado, Tann, Peak, Lewis, Snow, and student Cynthia Curtis '87. The report appears to be a return to traditional beliefs about education, a move that manr believe is long overdue. The Genera Education proposal presents a much different plan. It has been hailed by many faculty as the progressive ster forward that Union academics need. Genera EdtLcation also represents much time and effort on the part of Professors Zwicker, Sorum and man.y, many more. They should also be commended for their efforts to create a stronger and more cohesive educational program. The two plans represent the ~'Core Curriculum vs. Distribution Requirements\ debate of Sep- tember 1985. The Alternative prop{)sal is a core curriculum, with some variation, that holds that a few specific requirements will best provide an intellectual basis that students today seem to need and sorely lack. On the other hand the General Education proposal is a distribution requirement, that requires more courses but allows for choice. It groups courses around a theme. For a more detailed description, see the article on page one this week, and last week, and nwner()US editorials We cannot emphasize enough how vital this decision is to Union's future. The next few weeks the faculty will discuss and debate and eventually decide which plan will go into effect. Unless a majority of the faculty vote in favor of the alter- native, the General Education will be in effect as of the 1988-89 school year. That would not necessarily be bad. General Education, after over a year and a half of work, is a strong and probably effective educational statement. But the faculty should not overlook the alternative. It addresses needs tllat all of us recognize-a need for a sound, common basis for future work, a need to understand the outside world that every day looms more important in our collfltry's future. Union also needs to look into the future, however. It needs to make another resounding statement as it did with SAT's. Simply usin~ traditional ideas, no matter how sound they are, 1s not enough. Some of the sharpest, most innovative minds at Union devised General Education. A few more got together and produced theAlternativeproposal. We should not ignore the efforts of either group. As the faculty meet formally and informally they should attempt to combine the best ideas of both plans. students should encourage that discussion, m and out of cl.ass. Just by fostering an attitude of concern Students can aid in the dectsion, to say nothing of offering ideas. We at Concordiensis would hope to see some response in these pages in the next two weeks, as Professors Gado and Zwicker have begun this week. It is a waste of what Union has to offer if we do not somehow merge our strong tradition with our vision of the future to create an improved educational curriculum. Alumni Representatives '87 Elected Seniors Ben Budka and Gavin Morton have been elected the class of 1987's Alumni Council Representatives. Both candidates stressed the belief .that alumni interest and participation is important to Union's cont·inued advance- ment. In his election statement Budka wfites: \One way to improve the program at Union is to have open chan- nels of communication between alumni and the college administration.\ Morton echo.es Budka's sentiments .in his election statement: \The input o.f the class of 1987 is important and I would like to bring our viEwsback to the administration.\ Congratulations are in order to Ken and Gavin and the entire class of 1987. LETTERS Film Fiasco Criticized Te the Editor: Throughout my first year •. here at Union, I have seen many of the campus movies. The film committee, which runs all of the movies, has done a very good job. They are on time, they change reels almost on- noticeably, and have shown . themselves to be a very responsible committee. · However, last Saturday night on · Parent's Weekend, irrespon- sibility seemed :more the word to describe the film committee. At seven p.m. the movie ''Crocodile Dundee'' was supposed to be shown. .About half of the auditiroum (SS.fJ16) filled up with parents and students including my f~y and I. We all waited patiently for about half an hour until it was realized that we were just wasting our time since the projectionist failed to show up. Figuring that somebody forgot to do his-her job, most of the same people who expected to see the 7 o'clock showing, returned at 9:00. At this time, .probably .about three-fourths of the auditorium was filled. Once again, we waited, tmtil finally one individual, Pete Ralbovsky, took the initiative. Not on the film committee, be and a couple of his friends unhinged the projection room door and got in. They also got the screen down without a key and eventually ~hey projected the movie by 9:30. Pete should be com- mended for his actions since the movie W()uld not have been seen Saturday-, if it were not for him. I realiz;e tllat mistakes can be made Blld that people can forget. Sut this mistake which occureed on Parent's Weekend was an embarrassment to the school. Perhaps two people instead of one, should have been assign eel pro jectiontsts last weekend. Furthermore,. the team leader of the film com- mittee for the week shollld have double checked to see that everytilin~g was running smoothly. At least some measlll\e sho11ld be taken in the future to prevent one person's mistake from ruining many people's chance to see a movie. Eric Fefferman '90 Projectionist Apologizes for Mishap Dear Editor: I would like to apologize for the incidents of last Saturday night's showing of \Crocodile Dundee.\ I was originally scheduled to be the projectionist that evening. Due to my in- volvement with Godspell, I was not able to be there to show the movie and unfortunately I misunderstood that another projectionist would be there to replace me. This led to a series of unfortmate incidents and I would like to extend my sin- cerest apologies to those af- fected by this. Sincerely, Rebekah Thayer Exceptional Prize Candidates To the Editor, Concordiensis: On last Saturday, Prize Day, the George H. Catlin Prize was awarded to two seniors of great promise, Tom Swan and Adrienne Shah. The Catlin Prize, decided by the Com- mittee on the Standing of Students, is given each year to a senior of high academic standing who plans a career in college teaching. Sometimes the available funds are divided, as they were this year. This year the Committee faced the very difficult problem of deciding among five truly outstanding candidates, nominated in strong letters by their departments. The total list was Torn Swan (Psychology), Adrienne Shah (Classics), Cindy Cwtis (Mathematics), Dawn Tamarkin (Biology), and Kerrie Ticknor (English). I write on behlf of the com- mittee to say that at no time, in the longest of our memories, have we seen such a truly im- pressive set of candidates, supported with such warm letters of rec()rnmendation from their admirers in the faculty. The selection was long and difficult, but it was a delightful difficulty t() choose from these impressive seniors. We left our meeting with a glow of ad- miration, wishing only that we could have been equally generous to all five nominees. So we thought we'd tell the world. Alan Nelson Department of English Faculty: Enthusiasm, Not Discord To the Editor: During the next three weeks, we expect much debate over the relative merits of the proposals issued by the Subcouncil on the Curriculum and the Curricular Alternative Committee. The proposals are distinctly dif- Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis All letters to tU Editor must be tfped cloaltlea spaced and sulamltted by 4 p .... each Tuesday before publication. All lett1n ............. by 1110 IHI'fl ....... ,...... ..... writers 111Mhf provide ........ ,. ........... -••n for vMiflcetiGB of ... letter. ...... 1101'· ..ny will not 1M ......... . ~l'lllf'VIIfhe ...... to niKt lttttn tlllt ......... II' .. - ..,..to at•._.. If ..... ferent in underlying philosophy, and the decision will affect the direction of the college's future. We should take it as a good sign that positions are being ad- vanced with a fervor that bespeaks vitality. Fervid commitment, however, should not develDp into acrimony. We urge the campus to fix on the issu.es, and to be guided by concern for the enhancement of General Educ:ation. Sincerely, FrankGado Bill Zwicker '~ ' i ,. i 'i ) ., \ 'I ) \~ ,, I .,. ., ·' '.i ,. [ ! . • r 1-J .l l

.. CONCORDIENSIS, Mas 14, 1987 Page 9 LETTERS Vandalism of SSOL6.Inexcusable . . .. Massa Sends Regards To the Editors: The Audio-ViSual Staff sin- ~erely ·regrets · any in- vonvenience incurred by parents and students who planned to see the movie .in SS 016 on Saturday, May 9. Measures are being considered against the student who was scheduled to show the fihn so that similar incidents can be avoided in the future. However, amore seriow issue which callle 11p was the VliDdl.t.lisrn that occurred as a result of the e.ancellation of.themovie. A few students decided to break down the projection booth door and liSe equipment on which they had not been trained, resulting in costly damage to the fragile proJectors, the amplifiers, s.creen and the rented film. We fel that no amoWlt ·()f in- eonvenien(e justifies vantlalism and find this kind of. bebavior illex4:!usable. · · · To the Editors: olientatfon, prograJl1 • all ar.e sinill.ar. Belive it or' not, I am the consultant to a committee studying hazing because of a fraternity incident in March! All the Greeks are local here, so they have not had the benefit (?)of national adVice about one of my favorite topics. They may be sorry they asked! In con elusion, a special tllanks goes to RQbbie Blillkoff, wile mtselfishly came to the l\eseue to thow the later movie; lllld a special apology to Jerri Clark,. who otherwise organized 'a :perfect Parent's Weekend. Greetings from San Antonio and many thanks for my first two~subscriptions of Conc01rdy. Reading the issues was a mis:ed . blessing of sorts- I was happy to keep up with the news on the homefront~ but somewhat sad . that I was no longer a part of it. . ; Marika:Baksay w • . and Expensive as Well Indeed, I miss Union and its people quite a bit. I do hope to return to Union · for the College Center opening. To the Editors: I'd very much like to thank the ~udents who chose to remove·the door from its binges so that they could show the movie •. IttoQk a te~l initiatiye to show us that the projectors ate capable of eating the .first three scenes from the rented movie, \Crocodile l)undee,\ which only costs about $800. In ad- dition, we woUld like to thank them for showing us the in- feriority of the equipment by leavi[lg us with. two broken projectors (valued at a measly $2,100 each), a malfunctioning ampllfier, and a sereen with a key broken off in tbe lQck· that lowers it.lt will be a .pleasure to decide which piece of equip- ment can be fixed or replaced with an e~ensive Audio .. Visual budget (about $1,500 a year). I am also sure tbat the students who had to watch the movie SWlday on one projector and listen tCJ Paul llogan 's ~llstralian accent tluough a 3- ii:leh projector speaker io.stead ~f tile inferior sound system in SS016 thank you. And last, but !)y no means . least, the Film Committee will probably want t() extend a special thmks for tile damaged conditiDn of the :rented film. Myfamily and I are adjusting to life in Texas quite well and, altho ugh 1 still feel like an \outsider\, I know in a few monthsthat I will learn to be at home at Trinity. This i~l' a dynamic university, and I 'feel privileged to be a part of the moment1llll here. I am amazed, .though 1800 miles apart, at the similarities between . the ·two institllthns. Intelli.gent students, involved faculty, dedicated staff - even the In case I cannot, I want to wish the best to my special friends in the senior class, and good luck to the juniors who have now become the leaders of im- portant activities. I think about all of you often. Warm regards, RobertJ. Massa Associate Vice President Office of Academic Affairs Trinity University San Antonio, Texas 78284 Tllanks, guys. D.F;deman Excerpts From the Curricular Alternative Committee Report I. THE FRESHMAN CORE required of all freslunen in their first term at Union A. General Education 10: The Logic and Expression of Argument Objectives: 1) TQ encourage students to argue rationally. 2) In particular. to encourage sttulentsto argue rationally in their writing. 3) To review the rudiments of writing prerequisite to exp:r:essing an argument. 4) To stress the transdisciplinary-nature ofthe logic and expres$ion of argument. 5) To indicate tQ incoming students that they are expected to think more <:arefully and writemorethougbtfully 11t Unipn thanin high school. . Description.: Required of all freshmen in their first tetin at Union, the course is desig11ed as an in· traduction to the fundamentals ef argument. Students learn to formulate 11nd analyze arguments, priplarily verbally but also, to S()ffie extent, symbolically. The course consists of two compo11ents. Two (Gel Time} meetings per week (normally one lecture and one discussion) will foeus on effective logical argumentation. A tllird session, taught by a different instructor, will deal with the rudiments of writing-in J)ar1icular, the notion of a thesis. (See Freshman Writing Component.) · B. General Education 11 and 12 Eme:rgence ofthe Modern World Objectives: 1) To give freshmen an overview of 5 centu:r;'ies of \modern\ history; to acqtlaint them with some of the major movements, events, and figures inflaencmg the devel():prnent of that history; and to heighten awarenes~ <Jf the inter-relationships among art, scienc;e; philosophy, economics; technology, and politics. 2) To serve as a \core a reference for subsequent courses in various discip.llnes. 3) To provide a common base which might stimulate intellectual disctJ;lsion among students outside the classroom. Description: This two-course sequence, to be ta11ght in the winter and spring terms, begins with 1492 (marking the conquest of Granada .and the voyage of Colllffibus) and extends intCl the 20th century. Not a conventional history cClurse, it will instead focus on pivotal intdlectual and cultural changes which have forgedtlre modern mind. C. Freshman Writing Component Objectives: · 1) To improve student writing skills. 2} To encourage students to regard writing as a standard and important intellectuals1till rather than as an Qccasional burdle to be surmounted. Description': Freshman Writing fonns a significant component of the three freshman GEN ED cour- ses. This component will be scheduled as one class meeting per week during th:e entire year, with a section size,o£15. . Consistent with the ptin.ciples \am14lunced in the current catalogue descriptionof English 10, instruction will deal with \grlmliOar seQtence structure, sentence logic and development, paragraph structure and development, (and) qse of appropriate and adeqllate evidence to s1,1pport arguments,.a!lleading to the capability to write an expository essay.\ ll. APPLlED MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE, AND TECHNOLOGY Objectives: . 1) To show the intimate relationsllip between mathematics and the physical universe. nt2) To provide a rudimentarybackbtotlrldin the facts oftbe natural world. ~) To demonstrate what is meant by statistical reasoning. 4) 'ro give the student an opportunity to observe the power of analytical reasoning as . appliec to the solutillnof problems taken from everyday exptlrience. 5) T().give the student practice in converting word problems into symbolic and numeric form, l Description ofthe Requirements: T() fulfill this reqUirement, each student must take three courses. The first course seeks tClacquaint the student with the calculus through the concept of the int~gral. The requirement may be satisfied by taking MAT 12,MA'l' 21, or GEN ED 20, or by placetnent. {About 30 entering freshmen have sufficient expertise to beplaced in MAT 14 or higller .) Tile other two courses are intended to promote understanding of some aspects of the nataralw~rld at a reasonable level of sophistication. · 'I1lle second course must be ::~elected from BIO 16, CHM 10, GEO 10, PHY 11, or GEN ED 22. The tllird course must be either another of the previous five courses or a science or engineering course which has one of these five courses as a prerequisite. We propose that any co1JJ'se fulfilling the latter condition shall also be available for credit toward the major in the science ()r engineering departmerlt( s) with which it is most closely associated. TII.F()REIGN LANGUAGE AND CULTURE REQUIREMENT Obje()tives: 1) ']'() improvethe student's al>ility to communicate. 2) ']()provide a source of memtal discipline and to aid analytical thinking. 31 ']'()give students the practical advantages of language training. 4) '}'()help students understand other cultures. 5) ']'()enrich the study of histClry, literature, and other disciplines. Deseription: . AU students except engineering majors must satisfy a foreign language and culture requirement . .<We reluctantly e:xempt engineers because all but six of their courses are already committed; the value of their retaining some free electives outweighs the substantial . ad11antages ()f mandatory lang~ge study. Furthermore, the complexity of their curriculum poses.msunnountable schedulingdifficulties.) Sllldents will choose one ofthese alternatives: l) A 'Term Abroad in a non-E:nglish- speaking country which includes langlll:!ge study. This always requires at least one te:rm of language study, or equivalent proficiency, at Union, folloVIed by the Term Abroad itself. 2} Greek or Latin through the' '12\ level, followed 'by the Term Abroad in Greece. 3) ..At least one term of study in another language at a foreign university-for example, underour eurrent e1tchange with ETH in Switzerland. a.Acourse in \Mastering Written\ or \Mastering Spoken\ language (e.g., French 133 or lJ~); <>R ' b .. A literature course in the language; OR c . ..A course in another discipline in which the student would be required to use the language-e.g., by reading material in German as part of the wotkfor History 51. If .an appropriate cluster <Jf non-Western courses, including the study of language, literallue and culture, can be arranged, we favor its addition as a fifth alternative. Students demonstrating proficiency in a language through a .given level are thereby exempt frGm tile e()rresponding requirements.· Outline .o;f theGe~e.r~l Education Plan • • \\ ~ ,{ -:>' • ' ·- ~ ... • THe proposed General Education Curriculum ensfil'es ·both a' sbllfld· gi!aerai\ .2-:Cou~elfistorySequence: · · . . . , education and educational breadth. To achieve the first, the studentsselect eleven Ancient I and II; European rand II; Amer1can I and II; (possibly others) courses from a specified list of courses; to achieve the second, the S\tlldents select 1 CIY\Ilization cours~•: . . . . . . . . four courses restricted only by their major and division. Hist()ry o~ ~rt, rnus1c, Ideas ( econollllc t,h0ught), political thought, sc1entif1c _ thollght, religiOn) ; Non-western cultures; philosophy . REQUIREMENTS: 1 Freshman Preceptorial 2Symbolic and Quantitative Reasoning courses: see'cataloguedescription of4:!ul'rent \E\ category 2Science Courses Current \C\ catalogue description: knowledge of the physical environment based on the use of scientific methods as employed in biology, chemistry, geology, physics, and experimental psyehology. Courses fulfilling this requirement shall have at least occasional laboratories .. 1 AppUed Science and Technology Course: Courses appropriate. for the Applied SCience and Technology r~uirement in- clude courses on tbe application and the social and ethical implications of science and technology. The A.A. C. recommends that a variety of these co11l\ses be offered · in various departments and tbat prerequisites can be required wlen they will strengthen the course. 1 SOclalScienceCourse: · Anthropology10; Economics 12; Political Science 10, 11, 12, 13; Psychology 10; Sociology 10, 22; (PGssibly others) 2 Lltel\'atnre courses*: \'Of the 3 required Civillization/Literature courses, 2 must be associated with the tw()-<!()Urse History survey, olle with the first part. the other with the second. 3 addlti<Jnal C!ourses outside.ofthe division and department of the major: A. Divisions III and IV are considered as one for this requirement. Because of the rigidity of the number of their program requirements, Engineering students are;ex:CJepted: 1. fl\om one of the tw() required literature courses. The remaining literature course and the civilization C()urse must both be linked to the History Sequence co\lrSes; one to History I, the other tp History Il. 2. fr(}m the 3 extra-divisional course requirement. 13. I11terdepartmental majCJrs between two divisions (GermanaBiology, etc.) would IDake an arbitrary choice of their \Home\ division. They would have the advantage of automatically satisfying their extra-divisional distribution reqllirement. · C. Stililents who change majors between divisions would be able to use the coll:f'Ses already taken in expectation of completing their first major to satisfy the extemal division requirement, i.e., a Biology major with 4 science courses who shifted to Economics might use 2 of the science courses to ~tisfy the sCience reallil\ementand count the other 2 toward the extra~visional reeuirement.

' f i ,\ 'i ' l 'l ,' <' ·, CONCORDJENSJS, May 14, 1987 Page ·!J LETTERS V and ali sm of SSO L6. Inexcusable . • /0 Massa Sends Regards To the Editors: The Audio-Visual Staff sin- cerely regrets any in- vonvenience incurre(i by parents and students who planned to see the movie in SS 016 on Saturday, May 9. Measures are being considered against the student who was scheduled to show the filin so that similar Incidents can be avoided in the future. However, a more serious issue which came up was the vandalism that occurred as a result of the cancellation of the movie. A few students decided to break down the projection booth door and use equipment on which they had not been trained, resulting in costly damage to the fragile projectors, the amplifiers, screen and the rented film. We feel that no amount of in· convenience justifies vandalism and find this kind of behavior inexcusable. To the Editors: orientati()n program - all are similar~ Belive it or not, I am the con;SIIltant to a committee studying hazing because of a fraternirty incident in March ! All the Greeks are local here, so they have not had the benefit (?)of national advice about 01ne of :my favorite topics. They may be sorr:w they asked! In conclusion, a special thanks goes to Robbie Blinkoff, who Wlseifishly came to the rescue to thow the later movie; and a special apology te Jerri CJ:ark,. who otherwise organized a perfect Parent's Weekend. Greetings from San Antonio and many thanks for my first two· subscriptions of Concordy. Reading the iss11es was a mixed blessing of sorts - I was happy to keep up with the news an the homefront. bnt somewhat sad that I was no longer a part of it. Indeed, I Iniss Union and its people quite a bit . Marika Baksay • • • and Expensive as Well To the Editers: I'd very much like to thank the students who chose to remove the door from its hinges so that they could show the movie. It took a real initiative to show us that the projectors are capable of eating the first three scenes from the rented movie, \Crocodile Dundee,\ which only costs about $800. [n ad- dition, we would like to thank them for showing us the in- feriority of the equipment by leaving us with two broken projectors (valued at a measly $2,100 each), a malfunctioning amplifier, and a screen with a key broken off in the lock that lowers it. It will be a pleasure to decide which piece of equip- men.t can be fixed or replaced with an extensive Audio~Visual budget (about $1,500 a year). I am also sure that the students who had to watch the movie Sunday on one projector and listen to Paul Hogan's Australian accent through a 3- inch projector speaker instead of the inferior sound system in SS016 thank you. And last, but by no means least, the Film Committee will probably want to extend a special thanks for the damaged condition of the rented film. My family and I are adjusting to life in Texas quite well and, althaugh I still feel like an \outsider\, I know in a few :menths that I will learn te be at home at Trinity. This is a dynamic university, and I feel privileged to be a part of the momentwn here. I am amazed, though ~800 miles apart, at the similarities between the two institutions. Intelligent students, involved faculty, dedicated staff - even the I do llape to return to Union for the CoUege Center opening. In case I cannot, I want to wish the best to my special friend& in the senhm: class, and good 1t1ck to the juniors who have n~w become the leaders of im- portant activities. I think about all of you often. Warm regards, Robert J. Massa Associate Vice President Office of Academic Affa:.irs Trinity University San Antonio, Texas 78:J34 Thanks, guys. D. Friedman Excerpts From the Curricular Alternative Committee Report I. THE FRESHMAN CORE required of all freshmen in their first term at Union A. General Education 10 : The Logic and Expression of Argument Objectives: 1) To encourage stude11ts to argue rationally. 2) In particular, to enc-ourage students to argue rationally in their writing. 3) To review the rudiments of writing prerequisite to expressing an argument. 4) To stress the transd:isciplinary nature of the logic and expression of argument. 5) To indicate to incCJrning students that they are expected to think more carefully and write more thoughtfully at Union than in high school. Description: Required of all freshmen in their first term at Union, the course is designed as an in- troduction to the fundamentals of argument. Students learn to formulate and analyze arguments, primarily verbally but also, to some extent, symbolically. The course consists of tliVO components. Two (Gel Time) meetings per week (normally one lecture and one discussio;n) will focus on effective logical argumentation. A third session, taught by a different instructor, will deal with the rudiments of writing-in particular, the notion of a thesis. (See Freshman Writing Component.) B. General Education 11 and 12 Emergence of the Modern World Objectives: 1) To give freshmen an overview of 5 centuries of \modern\ history; to acquaint them with some of the major movements, events, and figures influencing the development of that history; and to heighten awareness of the inter-relationships among art, science, philosophy, economics, technology, an<d politics. 2) To serve as a \core a reference for subsequent courses in various disciplines. 3) To provide a common base which might stimulate intellectual discussion among students outside the classr-oom. Description: This two-course sequence, to be taught in the winter and spring terms, begins with 1492 (marking the conquest of Granada and the voyage of Columbus) and extends into the 20th century. Not a conventiollal history course, it will instead focus on pivotal intellectual and cultural changes which have forged the modern mind. C. Freshman Writing Component Objectives: 1) To improve student writing skills. 2) To encourage stude.nts to regard writing as a standard and important intellectual skill rather than as an occasion.all1urdle to be surmounted. Description: Freshman Writing forms a significant component of the three freshman GEN ED cour- ses. This component will be scheduled as one class meeting per week during the entire year, with a section size of 15. Consistent with the pr1nciples announced in the current catalogue description of English 10, instruction will deal with \grammar sentence structure, sentence logic and development, paragraph structure and development, (and) use of appropriate and adequate evidence to support arguments, all leading to the capability to write an expository essay.\ II. APPLIED MATHEMATICS, SCIENCE, AND TECHNOLOGY Objectives: 1) To show the intima toe relationship between mathematics and the physical universe. m2) To provide a rudimentary backbround in the facts of the na~ural world. 3) To demonstrate what is meant i>y statistical reasoning. 4) To give tile student an opportunity to observe the power of analytical reasoning as applieo to the solution of problems taken from everyday experience. 5) To give the student practice in converting word problems into symbolic and numeric form. Description of the Requirements: To fulfill this requirement, each student must take three courses. The first course seeks to acquaint the student with the calculus t:hrough the concept of the integral. The requirement may be satisfied by taking MAT 12,.MAT21, or GEN ED 20, or by placement. (About 30 entering freslunen have sufficient expertise to beplaced in MAT 14 or higher.) The other two courses are intended to promote understanding of some aspects of the natural world at a reasonable level of s<lphistication. The second course must be selected from BIO 16, CHM 10, GEO 1<0, PHY 11, or GEN ED 22. The third course must be either another of the previous five CIJUl'ses or a science or engineering course which has one of these five courses as a prerequisite. We propose that any course fulfilling tile latter condition shall also be available for credittll)ward the major in the science or engineering department ( s l with which it is most closely associated. III. FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND CULTURE REQUIREMENT Objectives: 1) To improve the student's ability to communicate. 2) To provide a source of mental discipline and to aid analytical thinking. 3) To give students the practical advantages of language training. 4) To help students understand other cultures. 5) To enrich the study of history, literature, and other disciplines. Description: All students except engineering majors must satisfy a foreign Banguage and culture requirement .(We reluctantly exempt engineers because all but six: of their courses are already committed; the value of their retaining some free electives outweighs the substantial advantages of mandatory language study. Furthermore, the complexity of their curriculwn poses insurmountable scheduling difficulties.) Students will choose one of these alternatives: 1) A Term Abroad in a non-English- speaking country which includes language study. This always requires at least one term of language study, or equivalent JProficiency, at Union, followed by the Term Abroad itself. 2) Greek or Latin through the \12\ level, followed by the TermAbr!Jadin Greece. 3) At least one term of study in another language at a foreign unl versity-for example, under our current exchange with ETH in Switzerland. a. A course in \Mastering Written\ or \Mastering Spoken\ languajge (e.g., French 133 or 134); OR b. A literature course in the language; OR c. A course in ;mother discipline in which the student would bE required to use the language-e.g., by reading material inGerman as part of the work for History 51. If an appropriate cluster of non-Western courses, including true study of language, literature and culture, can be arranged. we favor its addition as a fifthalternative. Students demonstrating proficiency in a language through a given leV'el are thereby exempt from the corresponding requirements. Outline of the General Education Plan The proposed General Education Curriculum ensures both a sound general education and educational breadth. To achieve the first, the students select eleven courses from a specified list of courses; to achieve the second, the students select four courses restricted only by their major and division. REQUIREMENTS: 1 Freshman Preceptorial 2 Symbolic and Quantitative Reasoning courses: see catalogue description of current \E\ category 2 Science Courses Current \C\ catalogue description: knowledge of the physical environment based on the use of scientific methods as employed in biology, chemistry, geology, physics, and experimental psychology. Courses fulfilling this requirement shall have at least occasional laboratories. 1 Applied Science andTechnology Course: Courses appropria1e for the Applied Science and Technology requirement in- clude courses on the ~pplication and the social and ethical implications of science and technology. The.A.A.C. reconunends that a variety of these courses be offered in various departmemts and that prerequisites can be required when they will strengthen the course. 1 Social Science Course: Anthropology 10; Economics 12; Political Science 10, 11, 12, 13; Psychology 10; Sociology 10, 22; ( pas:sibly others) 2-course History Sequence: Ancient I and 1I; European I and II; American I and II; (possibly others) 1 Civilization course•: History of art, music, ideas (economic thought), political thought, scientifiC\ thought, religion); Non-western cultures; philosophy 2 Literature courses*: *Of the 3 required Civillization/Literature courses, 2 must be associated with the two-course History survey, one with the first part, the other wit.h the second. 3 additional courses outside of the division and department of tbe major: A. Divisions III and IV are considered as one for this requirement. Because of the rigidity of the number of theii program requirements, Engineering students are excepted: 1. from one of the two required literature courses. The r,emaining literature course and the civilization course must both be linked to the History Sequence courses; one to History I, the other t9 History II. 2. from the~ extra-divisional course requirement. B. Interdepartmental majors between two divisions (Gecman-Biology, etc.) would make an arbitrary choice of their \Home\ division. T'hey would have the advantage of automatically satisfying their extra-divi.sional distribution requirement. C. Students who change rnajor.s between divisions would be able to use the courses already- taken in expectation of completing their first major to satisfy the external divisi()n requirement, i.e., a Biology major with 4 st(!ience courses who shifted to Econ<Jmics might u.se 2 of the science courses to satisfy the science reouirement and count the otber 2 toward the extra-divisionalreallirement.

IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular \day\ undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate &. Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in\Section 51 and 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Those who have three (3) examinations in one day and wish to seek relief may see Dean Daniels, Room S-100, Science and Engineering Building beofre June 1, 1987. It should be noted, however, that students are regularly expected to take two exams in a single day. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Adey in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday. May 29; 1987. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. listed below ns the code of the buildings to be used. · ARTS - Arts Bldg. BAIL- Bailey Hall BUTR - Butterfield Hall HUMN - Humanities Bldg. NWSE - No. Wing, Sci./Eng. Ctr. PYCH - Psychology Bldg. Monday, June 8 - 8:30-10:30 A.M. CHM 134- Organic Chemistry Ill - W. Martin- NWSE 222 EER 036 - System Theory II · Sec. 1 -C. Traver- BAIL 201 Sec. 2 - V. Fatic- NWSE 116 SSCI - Social Sciences Bldg. STZH- Steinmetz Hall tiST 053 - 1st Reich; Imp. Gerrnny 962-1806 - S. Sargent - SSCI 112 PHL 07S - Philosophy Of Law - R-Taylor .. HUMN 114 PHY 011 - Introduction to Phy~ic'~ I Sec. 1- G. Jones • BAIL 207 Sec. 2. C. Jones BAIL 207 PHY 013 .. lntorduction to Physics II · Sec. 1 . F. Titus - BUTR 204 Sec. 2. K. Schick- NWSE 012 Sec. 3. F. Titus- BUTR 204 SPN 011 -. Basic Spanish II - C. Qualtere -HUMN 112 Monday, June 8 - 11:.15·1:15 ARS 057 ~ Hist & Drama Of Modem Theater- M.C. Boone- ARTS 215. 810 158 -Plant Morphology - M. Frohlich ... BUTR 1 09 CER 150- Water Resources- P. Snow- BUTH 104 CHM016 -Inorganic Chemistry 1- C. Wieck- SSCI 010 CLS 043 - Classical Mythology- C. Sorum- HUMN 019 CSC 011, Soc. 2- Programming For Soc Sciences\ J, Castleberry- NWSE 014 ECO 033- Publi.c Pol & Americ;an Industry- D. Klein- SSCI112 . ECO 141 -Monetary Economics- E. Motahar ... SSCI110 EER 152 - Microprocessors - J. Gajjar '\ BUTR 1 06 EGL 010 -Fundamentals of Composition - M: Fleming - MUMN 1 15 ELL 012- HomesJ Bldgs, & Egr Principles - H. G. Harlow- BUTR 300 FRN 139 -Survey Of French Literature II - F. Coppay- ·HUMN 110 HST 025 - U.S. & the World: Early Years - M. Jonas - SSCI1 04 HST 042 - Renaissance Europe - S. Sargent - SSCI 1 03 HST 055 - The Soviet Period - S. Berk - SSCI 012 MER 040, Sec. 2 - Engineering Design I - M. Rivera - NWS!= .222 MTH 018 -lntro to Logic and Set Theory- K. Zimmermann.:. BAIL 102 MJ1i 1_0~, Sec. 2 -Advanced Calculus For Engrs- G. Ledder- BAIL 201 , P.H,Y 644: 'Introduction To Astronomy - L Saksay - STZH ·1 06 PHY.120- ~stronorny And Astrophysics- K. Schick- NWSE Q.16_ PSC 010- Introduction to Politics- J. C. Laursen- SSCl 016 PSY OtO, Sec. 2- A First Course in Psychology- H, Foley- PYCH 113 PSY 044 - Social Psychology - K. DeBono - PYCH 1 02 DCV nc:n - t:A .. ,..I!lltinn'!lll PC!\/t\hnlnnu •. , ~t~nhnnA - PVr.H ?1~ CSC 011, Sec. 1 - Programming For Soc Sciences - J .. Castleberry - NWSE 014 CSC 011, Sec. 1 - Programming For Soc Sciences - J. Castleberry - NWSE 014 EGL 078 - Engl Lang Struct: Linguistics- A. Nelson- HUMN 115 ESC 010, Sec. 2 - Mechanics I - G. Gifford - BUTH 300 ESC 020- Mechanics.ll- Y. K. Lee- BUTR 106 ESC 026- Thermodynamics & Heat Transfer- A. Burke- BAIL 106 FRN 146- Spec Topics In French lit- F. Coppay- HUMN 116 GEO 041 -Structural Geology- P. Ryberg- BUTR 201 GER 011 - Basic German II - S. Kellenter- HUMN 117 HST 010- Trad Civil-Emergence & Char- E. Hansen & R. Wells- SSCI 016 HST 048- Mod Brit: 1688 To The Present- J. Finkelstein- SSCI112 HST 068- Modem Japenese History- D. Thur!3ton- BAIL 207 LLR 025- Problem Solving- J. Barbanel- BAIL 205 MER 040, Sec. 1 - Engineering Design I - M. Rivera- NWSE 210 MTH 050- lntro To Applied Mathematics- W. Fairchild- BAIL 102 PHY 042 - Great Ideas Of Modern Physics - R. Magahi7: - STZH 106 PHY 054 - Statistical Thermodynamics - G. Reich - NWSE 016 PSC 032- American Political Thought- J. C. Laursen- SSCI103 PSY 020- Statistical Methods In Psycol- L. Stanhope- PYCH 213 PSY 036- Principles of Learning- B. Markiewicz- PYCH 113 SOC 010, Sec. 1 -Introduction To Sociology- J. Grigsby- SSCI 012 SOC 157 - Work, Occuptns & the Professns - S. lyng - SSCI 01 o Tue$dtly; Jun~ 9, 2:00-4:00 P.M. ACC 010 - Financial Accounting I - D. Arnold - BAIL 207 AGG 011 - Financial Accounting 11 - A. Hurley~ BAIL 2Q1 ANT 043 ~ Anthropology of Religion - S. Gmelch - SSCI 103 BIO 011 - Co.ntemporary Biology- M. Schadler- BAIL 106 910164 - Ethology - C. Georg·e - BAIL 205 CSC 010- Computers And Computing- G. Marten- NWSE 014 ECO 012, Sect. 1 -Introduction To Economics- D. Schaffer- SSCI104 ·EGO 031 - Mioroeco.nomic Ana1ysis -B. Reynolds- SSCil12 EGL 061 ~ Rise Of The Novel- J. McCord- HUMN 110 ESC 033 .. Fluid Systems Analysis- P. Ranganathan- NWSE 222 PHY 014 - Elements Of Modern Physics · Sec. 1 J. Newman- NWSE 116 Sec. 2 S. Maleki - NWSE 012 PSC 011, Sec. 1 - Contemporary American Politics ~C. Brown- SSCI 016 PSC 074- Political Campagn In America- C. Brown- SSGI 016 STA 111 - Intra Statistical Methods II - J. Schrnee - BAI4 312 Wednesday, June 10, 8:30-10:30 A.M. ARS 041- Introduction to Music, Part U- H. A. Wilson -ARTS 215 BIO 023 - Cell Biology- F. Lambert & G. Smith - SSCi 104 BIO 154- Chordate Embryology- R. Rappaport- BUTR 300 CER 035- Water Resources & Environment- P. snow~ BUTR 106 CER 129- Structures II- M. Mafi .. BUTR 104 CLS 023- History of Rome: The Empire- M. Toher ~ HUMN 019 CSC 037 - Structured Programming - D. Hannay- NWSE 014 ECO 042 - Macroeconomic Theory & Policy - E. Motahar- SSOI 014 EER 154- VLSI System Design- E. Hassib- BUlR 1'09 ESC 013 - HiQh Level Lang Programming .. L. Almstead - BAIL 2G5 FRN 134, Sec. 2 - Mastering Spoken Franch - W, Thomas .. HUMN 116 GEO 01 0 - Physical Geology - K. Hollocher - BUTR 204 HST 058- The. Holocaust-S. Berk- SSCI 016 MER 122 - Robotics .& Auto, Prod Sys & CAM - R. Guhtur - NWSE 210 MTH 021 - Math Methods For Soc Sci II- K. Zimmerman- BAIL1 04 \0 c.= (lQ ~ ~ c:::> ~ 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ til'l t:; \' ~ ~ ..... ~ ... .... 'o ~

lc ~ ... MTH 101, Sec. 2- Advanced Calculus For Engrs- G. Ledder- BAIL 201 PtiV o44: Introduction To Astronomy - L Saksay - STZH ·1 06 ' PHY 120- Astronomy And Astrophysics- K. Schick- NWSE Q:16. PSC 010 - Introduction to Politics- J. C. Laursen - SSCl 016 · PSY 010, Sec. 2- A First Course in Psychology- H. Foley- PYCH 113 .PSY 044 - Social Psychology - K. DeBono - PYCH 1 02 RSY 050- Ed4c.ation~l Psycholo.gy -.L Stanho~e - PYCH 213 ~SY 062 - Practtcum m Human Relattc;ms 1- J. Gtrdner- PYCH 204 SOG OlO. Sse. l • Introduction to BoCiology - T. W6iOer- 68CI 01\4 SOC 024 - Social Psychology .. K. DeBono - PYCH 102 , Mohday, June B - 2:00-4~00 P.M. BIO 130 - Comparativ~ Animal Physiology - F. Lambert • NWSE 222 CER 132- Reinforced Concrete Design- M. Mafi- BUTR 104 CER 142 - SOil Mechanics - H. G: Harlow - BUTR 300 . CHN 010- BasicChinese 1- W. H.Xu & H.J. Liu- HUMN.117 ~;co 146 .. Econ And Business Forecasting - T .. Kershner- SSCI112 ESC 010 , Sec. 1 - Mechanics ·I - R. Eisenstadt - NWSE 21 o ESC 042 - Signals & Systems · Seo. 1 G. Goodheart - BUrR 109 Sec. 2 E. Craig - BUTR 1 06 GER 012 -Intermediate German- Straif-Taylor- HUMN 213 GER.132- The Ger.man Novelle- S. Kallenter- HUMN 11S HST 045 - Second World War Era- E. Hanssn - SSCI1 04. HL 010 ·Basic Italian I · Sec. 1 M. Keyes- HUMN 114 sec. 2M. Keyes- HUMN 114 MTH 012 - Calculus II - A. Taylor - BAIL 1 04 Pt.il 018- Advanced lntroto Philosophy- F. Davis- HUMN 112 PHL 134 -Analytic Philosophy :- J. Ludwig - HUMN 113 PSY 01 o, Sec. 3 - A First Cours? in Psychology - C. W. Huntley - PYCH 1 02 PSY 031 ~Abnormal Psychology- R.M. Bagby- PYCH 113 SPN 012 -Intermediate Spanish- R. Vinick- HUMN 116 SPN 141- Voices Of Hispanic Women- P. Moyano- HUMN 1110 Tuesday, June 9 • 8:30·10:30 A.M. · ECO 034- lntro to Financial Analysis - B. Lewis - SSCI 1 03 MTH 014 • Calculus Ill Sec. 1 L. T atevossian - BUTR 21)4 Sec. 2 L. Tatevossian- BUTR 204 Sec. 3 A. Prindle • BAIL 1 04 MTH 030 - Ordin Differential Equations Sec. 1 E. Gillette w 8AIL 1 06 Sec. 2 J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 207 Sec. 3 J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 207 Sec. 4 J. Coffey - BAIL 1 08 MTH 101, Sec. 1 - Advanced Calculus For Engrs - T. Bick & A. Seiken - BAIL 201 MTH 170- Topology 1- J. Hefferon- BAIL 105 PHL 075 - Philosophy Of Mec;iicine - R. Baker - HUMN 112 PHL 136- Phenomenology & Existentialism- L. Patrik- HUMN 110 PHL 140- Knowledge & Scepticism-S. Kaminsky- HUMN 116 Tuesday, June 9 - 11:15-1:15 810 018 - Introduction to Biology II - G. Butterstein & M. Frohlich - SSCI 1 04 810 024- Genetics And Evolution- H. Butzel & K. Williams- BUTR 204 810 068- Genetics and the Law- H. Butzel- SSCI110 OHM 040 - Quantative Chemistry- T. Werner - NWSE 222 CHM 150 w Physical Chem~stry I· D. Hayes· BAIL 203 EER 154 - VLSI System Design - E. Hassib - BUTR 109- . ESC 013- Hi!Jh Level Lang Programming .. L. Almstead- ISAlf.:- ~@5 FRN 134, Sec. 2 - Mastering Spoken Franch - W, Thomas .. HUMN 116 GEO 01 0 - Physical Geology - K. Hollocher - BUTR 204 HST 058- The. Holocaust-S. Betk- SSCI 016 MER 122 - Robotics .& Auto, Prod Sys & CAM - R. Guntur - NWSE 210 MTH 021 - Math Methods For Soc Sci II- K. Zimmemian- BAIL 104 MTH 040 - Applied Linear Algebra .. A. .Sei~en - BAIL 207 MTH 105 -History Of Calculus .. w. Stone .. BAlL 203 MTH 119 -'Topics In biscrete Mathematics- W. :Zwicker~ 9AIL 1:0~ MTH 133 - Abstract Algebra II - T. Bick - BAIL 1 05 · MTH 134 ~ Differential Equations - J .. Coffey - BAIL 1 02 .PHL 021 \'SymboliC LogiC- J. Ludwig .. HUMN 117 PHL 078~- Technological Values~ S. Kamin$ky- HUMN 114 PHY 140 .. Quantum Mechanics ~ D. PeaK NWSE 0'16 PSC 012 - Contemporary lnternatnl Pol- B. Kfunk ~ SSCI 1 03 PSC 070 .. Civil Uberties - W. Daniels .. SSCI110 PSY 010, Sec. 1 ~A First Course in PsyctJology- D. Spring- PYCH 113 P.SY 042 - Psycho I Assessment & Testing - K DeBono- PYCH 102 RUS 012- Intermediate Russian l-N. Jemakoff- HUMN 110 Wednesday, June 10, 11:1.5-1:15 ARS 133- Modern Art, Part HI- C. N. DeVegvar- ARTS 215 OSC OG4 -Cobol & Information ProceQaing ~ T. Schwarz - BAIL 207 ECO 012, Sec. 2 -Introduction To .Economics· B. Reynolds- SSCI104 Eco·tss .. Competing Philos In Pol Econ - L. Sage - SSCI11 o b!GL 077 ~ Contemporary American Novel- ~- Glldo - HUMN 110 GER. 142- Romantik Und Realismus .. S Kellenter- HUMN 119 HEB 012 .. Intermediate Hebrew n- 0. HeCKelman .. HUMN 213 LAT 012 -Latin Heading- J. Marincola- HUMN 117 , LAT 138 - Lyric and Elegiac Poetry - J. Marincola -.HUMN 117 LLR 1'55 .. Health Care Technology - L:.. Hull & G. Smith -NWSE 116 PHL 146 - Social Philosophy - R. Baker - HUMN 112 PSC 011, Sec. 2 - Contemporary American Politics -C. Brown- SSCI 112 PSG 054- Chinese Foreign. Policy .. D. Thurston- SSCI 014 PSY 163 - Practicum In Human Helatns II - J. Girdner- PYCH 204 soc 038 -.sociology of Deviant Behavior., M. Huggins - SSCI1 03 Wednesday, June 10 1 2:00-4:00 P.M. CER 020 - Land Measurements:.Theo & Applic- C. Male- BUTR 106 CHM 010- Fundamental Chemistry I · Sec. 1 J. Anderson- BUTH 204 Sec. 2 D. Katahira - BUTR 204 · sec. 3 J. Anderson - BUTA 204 CHM 012 - Fundamental Chemistry II · Sec. 1 D. Hayes- BAIL 207 · ·Sec. 2 R. Schaeffer- BAIL 207 ESC 032 - Electrical Circuits & Devices n Sec. 1 J. Mallick - BAIL 203 Sec. 2 L. Hollander - BAIL 201 GRK 133- Greek Tragedy- C. Sorum- HUMN 110 HST 076 • Mahatma Gandhi & India's Hist - S. Hoffman • SSCI1 03 JPN 010- Basic Japenese I· T. Nakagawa- HiMN 116 · The Following courses have a common exam with the evening division. Monday, June 8, 4:30·6:30 P.M. CSC 077- Data Structures- L. Spallholz- $$CI104 GaG 144 .. Functional Programming- McLaugrmn- HUMN 019 '~ l ··.~ c ~ -~ ·c ~ 1;:1 til .~ ~ \' ~ ~ ..... ~ ·C; ~ ., Ill; a: ,.... '\\\

. . . . ~. I ·rage 12 CONCORD1ENSIS 1 May ~4~ 1987 JfHiARTS :, itilt Jim and Buddy's Summer P'review As tile so11g says, \S'wmner's here and the time is right for ... :c\drinking beer, catching rays, g~ing fishing, drinking more beer, ogling .the 0,pposite · sex at the beach, and seeing movies.\ Now I know what you're :saying, that the latter activity doesn't quite belong with the others, but one does seem to attend more movies in the summer months than usual. For fun and excitement there's no better way to waste away a summer's night than at the local :mall's Multi-Cinema. Yes, there·' s nothing q.uite like. cra~n:.~ping yourself into a car with 811 odd number of chums, waiting in a traffic j~ to enter the eldensive cinema parking (the torturous wait made bearable with the foresight to provide ample beverage sup• ply), and proceeding to take your spot in the mile-long line to IIIII!! get tickets. The trick at tne ticket line is give all. your money to one trusted friend and have him blend, (readthat cut h into the front of the line Wlder the guise that they're checking the film times. . Bu<,ldy , herself i~:; partial to Drive-Ins during the summer, remarking that if the mo\Vie is boring it's easier to .find other forms of amusement. Tbe problem is, however, that most REVENGE OF THE NERDS II (NERDS IN PARADISE) What would a summer be without a slew of sequals and leading the pack are the polyester lads from Jl Revenge of the Nerds.\ With most of original· cast, uNerds II\ stars R()bert Carradine as Lewis Skolnick, Timothy Busfield as Poindexter, Andrew Casseseas Wormser, curtis Armstrong as n Boeger\ and Larry Scott as Lamar. Directed by Joe Roth, II Nerds II' concerns a Spring Break sojourn to Florida by the Tri-Lambs to attend a united Fraternity Conference. There to greet them in sunny Ft. Lauderdale will be the beast of Alpha house, ogre (Donald Gibb). \Nerds II\ is sethr a July 10 releasing. HEARTS OF FIRE sure to be one of the more talked about movies of the summer, \Hearts of Fire'' stars Bob Dylan in his first mainstream role since 1973. Also in ~~e movie are rock singer Fiol'la and English actor Rupert Everett. The mov1e concerns the battle tot the love of Molly Maquire (Fiona) between reclusive rock musician Billy Par.ker (Dylan), and pop superstar James Colt (Everett). Directed by RI-chard Marqu.and, the movie features 22. origilla I songs. Four of the songs were written by Dylan himself; ar-1d Wang CtltJng contributed some work. \Hearts of Fi're\ will be out July 24. Orive-In fare is limited to ax murder movies. Further, tne Drive-In is slowly going tb,e way of the db1osaur, pushed· into extinction by the prefab-slab, 100 screen suburban mall bijous. Most of us probably owe our existence, in f!(>me form or another, to the Drive-In, but that's a .story for another day. Anyhow, getting to the matter at band, Buddy and I have been blessed with. some \inside poop'.' on a handful of movies set fer release in this summer of '87. It would be nice t9 contrive some fictional version of how came to acqUire such valued information: ESP, . Divine Providence, or secret source. But the truth is we foWld a press packet, laden with dates and photos in our mailbox. So, if you're hot and bothered with no place to go this summer, you can look for one of the foll~ing movies to pass the time .for you. BIG SHOTS \Big shots,\ which will be r.eleased <,:>n Au~ust 4, is a movie about an unlikely friendship between two young boys. Obie, a protected middle class white boy from the suburbs who is upset at the death of his father is one of the boys. The other is Scam, a street smart black who is also. struggling to get along without his dad. The two become joined ·in a search for a watch that belongs to Obie, finding friendship instead. The movie stars 12 year old Ricky Buster as Obie, and 10 y'ear old Darius McCrary as Scam. Supporting them in the cast is Paul Winfield. This is sure to be one of those cvte, heartwarming movies that are good to take date PREDATOR npr-edator\· .stars Arnold Schwanenegger as Major Alan Schaefer, a professional soldier. Arnie leads a rescue mission into a Latin American jungle to rescue some allies capture~ by guerrill~s. He and his team succeed easily .at ftrst, ~estroymg the guerilla camp and recovering their friends. But on the way out of the jungle a mysterious foe begins killing the men one by one. The mission becomes a battle for survival against an ene.my that blends _ into the jungle- and strikes with inhuman ferocity. The movie co-'stars Carl Weathers of \Rocky\ fame, and is slated for release on June 12 .. . [ lv. . will Sar thrt ·two • Ne1 · nm Ovt · the: whi ron son · upt an( wit art Tal 'Br< Da fo['j . :583 E ant isn . Caj Thl be . Fo1 0 will - Ler ho11 Caf an( of tee riv• ha~ dec 583· j the Tal wit mll ·wn wil 16-: an< Co1 ES: tim cal r J

CONCORDJENSIS, May . .J4, 1987 Page 13 ---~-·'--·---- -- --- _.:.._ _____ , ___________ __, ___ ,_. ~- ·----~\~..... .. ~--·~---- - Aztec Waiting M~ke swe you make it to ·the Music duo Aztec Two.Step Nott fo t the infamous · will perfor:in at Caffe Lena .ill production of Waiilng for Godot, · Saratoga .Springs Friday :by Samuel. Beckett. The next through SUilday, May 15-17 • The perfonn&{;c:es will be May 19-23 · two musician~, Rex Fowler and at 8 pm. Diane Sadak is the • Neal Shuhnan, adopted their ·director, lllld the primarily · name from a line from a poetn! female cast consists of Kerrie Over the cour11e of .their career Ticknor a~ Vladimir, Michelle · they have recorded five lll.bums Maratto as Estrogen, Claire · which.rangein•mUSic style from Cous.inea11 as Pozzo, .Steve romantic ballads and story- Brown as !Lucky, and Jessica . songs in the ·folk tradition to Adelson as tM Child. Sadak · upbeat songs witb a flair of pop says HThe message is in the . and jazz. They have performed meeting, ·md in the endless with wen known acts such as waiting f01rGodot, Whatever you Bruce Sprirlgsteen, America, may concelve.Godot to be. And Talkmg Heads, . J.ackson everyonebas their own version 'Browne, and Bill Cosby .and of Godot.',.Go to the production David · Brenner. For in· and fol'OI yc;mr own in- formation .. and: reservations call terpretation. For more in· · :583-0022. . · formation on tnis production,. . R .. a.mb.··.I.·I·. ·n·.. contact tlhe Public Relations Office at 370-61:72. · He'sthe~(lnOfWoodyGuthrie G' :0· .d·. sp·el .. l' and the father of Bob Dylan and · is making a rare appearan~e at Now is .:wour chance to see · Caffe Lena in Saratoga Srpmgs. Goclspell. 1t will be performing • The one-night .appearance will in the NottEro:m now throughout be tonight, Thursday, May 14. this .weekend. The per..: . For infonnation call· 583.0022. .formances;~re 8 pm and tickets I · d. are avaUabile in Old Chapel. · · ..~ege-n. ary . G . · .·. ·rec1an On May 22-~ Dave Van Ropk will ·be peFforming at Caffe This we-elkend, .May 16-17, is - Lena iJ1 Saratoga Springs in the 17th. anliU.!il Grecian honor of the 27th anniversary of Festival which will feature Caffe Lena. His sophisticated ethnic mu:s[c, food, and shops .. and dynamic and dramatic use _St. Sophla Greek Orthodox of vocal and instrumental . Church, 440 Whitehall R.d.,. techniques makes him a Albany. riveting performer of blues that has enchanted· audiences • •for decades. For inform.ation call 583..0022. , . Aladdin A new adventure begins for the legendary hero out of the Tales from the Arabian Nights with the world premiere of the musical AJJad:ln. The musical ·will be produced by ESIPA and will be playing at the Egg May 16-30. Ticket$ are $9 for students andean be obtained through the Community Box OOices or the . ESIPA box office. For show times and more information call 442-5111. EIJI On Saturday~ June 6 at a. pm; music direetor Eiji Oue and the . Empire Strute Youth Orchestra will concl11de their season with a gala coll(!<ert in the Memorial• Chapel. \'Iley will be per- forming . favorites . such as Rimsky·K()rsakov's \Scheh- erazade,\ Copland's Fanfare for the Common Man, and Barber's A!lf,lgio for strings and the Serenade for 13 WindS by· Strauss. Tlekets for the concert are $5-$3 and are available at Community Box Offices and at the door . For further in· formation eall ·438-8868. Jim and Buddy at The Movies By JIM MCLAUGHLIN HOT PURSUIT Starring John Cusack, Wendy Ga2elle and Robert Loggia ·Directed' by Steven Lisberger - Rated PG-13 Jobn Cusack is on~ of those actors who invari.ably will always be typecast as student of some sort. That in itself, for now, hasn't been t!)O bad for Cusack who has done a fine job · at the role in movies such as ''Sixteen Candles\ and \The Sure Thing. ''But those movies had a few .key qualities; good acting, funny script, originalitY etc .•. , qualities that are severely lacking .ill Cusack's · latest teen vehicle \Hot Pur- suit.\ Directed by Steven Lisberger (of \Tron\ frame), the movie is one ·of the most predictible movies this reviewer has ever sat through. Tbe movie concerns the (yawn) comedic misadventures of ()ne Dan Barlett, played by CliSaek, a level headed prep- ·scb.ooler on scholarship. · DB11 has a rich · · girlfriend named. Loti Croniberg (Wendy Gaze]le), who is of Olym- p~c ealibre at . the • 'com- ·biliatfon hair-flip giggle With a smil~'' routine. Lori's family nas illvlted Danto go on a cruise withthem for spring recess, b11t of colli:'se Dan has to flunk his Chemistry finaJ. and is forced 1() stay behind and take .a makeup test. Yet, throug]l some quitk ()f original script work, Dan's prof~sor waives the retest ·f()l\ the l<lvelorn student in order· t() allQw hkn to keep his vacation plans. intact. Thus, the t.itle of the movie is reeotnizecl. as Dart chases down the vaca~ioning GroJtlbergs; always coming up one aep s~ort. After flying down to the Cattibean to cate}t up with his beloved, he is waylaid by some rather lame episodes involving some hap- pily llrugged islanders, a bottle of rlllll, and a storm at r:;ea. The. movie ends up with one of the HE ARTS -,rl~·· A worst . plot twists in recent years, with Dan finally rescuing his girl.friend and family from some.murderous boat hijackers (ooooohl, scary isn~t it.). Cusack works hard, smiling all the way, in trying to make the ·pict11re somewhat in- teresting. But the inane script and story drown him in a sea of idiocy. Robert Loggia is in- tere$ting as a weird old salt, but for this film his appearance is a severe wasteoftalerit! The rest of the cast is a hodg&podge of vaguely recognizable TV faces who lend evidence as to why they aren't major stars (or ever will be). As far as directing goes, 'Lisbergerdeserves double the criticism because he also co- authored the movie, taking it seems divine inspiration from the \Gilligan's Island\ .notebook. Needless to say though, ''Hot Pursuit\ will undoubtedly live a long life on cS:ble and video, so use your five dollars on some more meaningful pursuit and wait on ''Hot Pursuit.\ FILM GRADE C- ... AttentioR Union College: It's your last chance to see God spell at the -Nott Memorial. Shows will be presented T.hJ..Jrsd~ay, May 14; Friday, May 15 and Saturday, May 16a Tickets are on sale for $3.00 for students $4.00· for faculty $5.00 for ge,neral public Don't Miss It! CROSSGATES MALL THEATER ·SCHEDULE The Union College ~ Arts Club PRESENTS Philip Guston A FREE FILM AB 215--9:00-10:00 . 456·5677 MOVIE RATING Aristocats G 12:25 2:30 Secret of My Success PG13 1:00 4:15 Blind Date PG13 1 :SS 4:45 Raising Arizona PG13. 12:10 3:40 Project :X PG 1:40 4:20 Extreme Prejudice R 1:25 4:~5 Gard~ns of 'Stone. R 1:30 4:10 Meatballs 3 R 1:20 4:05 The Gate PG13 Hot Pursuit PG13 12:40. 3:20 Creepshow 2 R 1:35 4:00 lshtar PG13 '12.:50 . ,' 3:40 Lethal w:eapon R 1·2:20 3:15 ' TIMES 4:35 7:05 9:55 7:10 9:50 6:25 9\:20 7:20 10.:15 7:30 10:20 7:00 9:45 7:50 10:20 6:35 9~10 6:40 9:25 6:20 6:55 9:45 6:15 8:50 FRI. SAT. 12:20 12:10 11:35 12:25 12:25 12:10 12:25' 11:15 11:40 10:55. 12·:15 11:10 t7lT. ' . . \!J,tenta.ttn s ~4l1etmers & 'Mai10rs1fiHt 111• UNION SlAEET 'o·~c.~~,.~ r Specializing in ,..,,\\ ~ou\1!t svede & Leather Cleaning o,sc.: Slllrts & Blouses Laundered ·zippers Replaced.· Jeans Shortened Cl'large Accounts Welcome

Pnge 14 ARTS Chaos For Roger Waters; Former Member of Pink Floyd .··REO Speed wagon · REO Speed wagon will be performing with special guests J oa11 Jett and the Blackhearts at the Glens Falls Civic Center on Wednesday, May 27 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets for the· concert are $15.00 for reserve and festival seating and are on s-ale :!low at the Civic Center Box Office, all Ticketron outlets, and Drome Sound. For more information and ticket reservations call 798-0202. (cold§suM) By CELIA MANN Fonne1· Pink Floyd leader Roger Waters has confirmed plans for a new album and tour. His new album is entitled Radio K.A.O.S. and is scheduled for worldwide release June 15 with the single \Radio Waves\ which is out now. Radio K.A.O.S. was written and recorded lly Waters and co-produced by . Roger and Ian Ritchie. Waters' \Bleeding Heart Band\ in· eludes musicians Jay Stapley, . Mel Collins, Graham Broad and Andy Fairweather Lowe, and · . are featured on the .a blum along with The Pontardulais Welsh Male Voice Choir and guest vocalist Paul Carrack. The album's title is based around a fictitious Southern · Californ1a radio station K.A.O.S • and explores · tile :.;:elationship abetween Jim, a renegade DJ fighting a losing battle against forma.t-controlleq radio programming, and Billy the \unusual\ phone-in listener The two characters, Billy and Jim, share the concern about tile increasing domination of market forces over everyday life. The album theme stems from Waters' concern over 41 The whole issue of the in· 1987 COMING ATTRACTIONS. Our spectacular 1987 Season is selling out fast! INNER CIRCLE CLtra .. NEMBERS are th~ first to know about NEW shows• AND· the· first to purchase tick~ts! HURRY, hckets go on. sale to the general public on Monday, May 27th! •••••••••o•oooooooo••••••••oooooooooooooooooooooooooo•••••••••••• •••••••••••••••OOono ooou ••••no no•••••.l••••••••uo.oao•o uoo•o••••••••••• oooo•ooonoo•u• BOBBY VINTON MAY 30 6 & 9:30 PM i $17.50 $3.50 $14.00 KENNY ROGERS JUNE 11 6 & 9:30. PM i $30.00 - $30.00 wii:i..i'itN'ECso·ii· ...................................... ····j·uNE·25··· ..... a:'3o'PM ..... l .... $29:sri\· .................... $29:5a··· DIAHANN CARROLLNIC DAMONE JUNE 26 8:30PM i $17.50 $1.75 $15.75 .......... ~ .................................... , ................................................................ >················ ................................. .. FRANKIE VALLI & THE FOUR SEASONS WITH THE FOUR TOPS JUNE 27 8:30PM ! $17.00 $1.70 $15.30 i<i'iis'i<\Fiisro.FE.Fiso·ii .................................. j'GNE.3o··· ·····a·:3o.PM .... j\'$'16:5a\· .... $1\.65\\\ .... $.14:85\·· KOOL & THE GANG . ,JUNE 29 8:30 PM : $23.50 · $23.50 • • o, ,., o o • o o o o 'o o • o o' o'o o o o o o•• o ••• o \' o oo o ooo o ooo o oo oo\ o o o ooo oo o o oo o o o o •,• '\ o oo• o ooo \'\ •\ o \o Oooo oooooo) ooo o ooo oooo ooooo ooooooooooooooooo oooooooeooo•oooo THE COMMODORES JULY 9 8:30PM $15.00 $1.50 $13.50 THEEVERLYBROTHERS JULY10 8:30PM l $17.50 $1.00 $16.50 . MAi'isi-iii.-.:·c·rii\ci<·~·iiio.uit:Aws·············· ····j·ucv·1·~···· ..... s.:3o.PM···r·$-1is·a· ....... $1\.35 ........ $.12:1·5··· PERRY COMO JULY 14 8:30 PM i $29.50 - $29.50 s·uoo·y-i:J.G:ci<·rn······-····························· ····\.iiiv··;;;···· ····s:3·;;·r:,-i.x····~· .. $;·a:sa··· ·····$1:ss···· ···$i\4.ss··· CHARLIE DANIELS BAND JULY 16 8:30PM $16.50 $1.65 $14.85 RICKY SKAGGS JULY 18 8:30PM $15.00 $1.50 $13.50 AIR SUPPLY JULY 19 8:30PM $17.50 $1.75 $15.75 ALABAMA JULY 20 6 & 9:30 PM·1 $32.50 - $;32.50 AMERICA & THREE DOG NIGHT JULY 24 8:30PM $15.00 $1.50 $13.50 JAY BLACK & THE AMERICANS JULY26 8:30PM • $13.50 $1.35 $12.15 ENGELBERT HUMPERDINCK JULY 26 8:30PM • $19.50 • $19.50 MICKEY GILLEY Jl.JL Y 29 8:30PM $16.50 $1.~5 $14.85 HARRY BLACKSTONE, JR. JULY 30 8:30PM $12.50 $1.00 $11,50 (Children): $8.50 $1.00 $7.50 oooooooonoooooooo•ooooooooooooooooooooooooouoo••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••• ._,,.,,.,,,,.,,,,,,,,,.,.,uouooOfOOO._.o oouooooouoooooo oooooooooo .. •ooo WAYNE NEWTON JULY 31 7 & 10 PM : $19.50 - $19,50 EDDY ARNOLD AUG .• 2 . 8:30PM l $17.50 $1.75 $15.75 e·ooi·E···Fi.t;a8ii1ii:o\uise ... MA\No·R·ELi:···· ..... .A:uG:·3····· ..... e.;3o\fiM···T\$'17:5·ii\' \\$i'.75\'\ .... $.15:75\\' LIVE PRO WRESTLING AUG. 8 7:30PM ! $12.50 $1.00 $11.50 ........................................................................................................... > ................................................ . (Children)! $8.50 $1.00 $7.50 WEIRD AL YANKOVIC AUG. 9 8:30PM . ! $14.50 $1.45 $13.05 roNv~·o·Fii:Ar:iooijose··Fei:ic'r'ii,No···· .. ·· ····AuG:·;·2 ......... 8.:3o\fiM .... ~ .. ·$:i7:5ri\' \\$i\.75\'\ .... $.15:75··· RIGHTEOUS BROTHERS AUG. 13 6:00PM ! $16.00 $3.20 $12.80 .................... , .............................................................................. ~ ....... ,. ................................................. . CLASSIC '60S SUPER FEST AUG. 14 7 & 10 PM ! $16.50 $1.65 $14.85 -READY FOR THE WORLD AUG. 16 8:30 ! $15.oo·· ... $1.50 $13.50 i'Al:il\i·N·i<ii\ ................................................ AuG:.·;·s\': ..... a.:3ii'PM .... l ... $17:5o\·· .... $1\.75\\ .... $.15:75··· GORDON C4GHTFOOT AUG. 19 8:30PM ! $17.50 $1.75 $15.75 liov··o'FifiisciN ...................... _ .................. ····A\uci.2o···· .... s:3·i;·ii;.; ..... r .. ·~;·4:sa··· ····$2:o-o···· ···$;·2·.5o··· TOM J9NE$ AUG. 21 8:30PM $19.50 - $19.50 JIM NABORS AUG. 2~ 8:30PM $15.00 $1.50 $13.50 JOAN RIVERS AUG. 23 6:00PM $18.50 - $18.50 LOU RI\WLS & ROBERTA FLACK AUG. 24 6 8 9:30 PM i $17.50 $3.50 $14.00 LEE GREENWOODfTAMMY WVNETTE AUG, 25 8:30PM $16.!;0 $1.65 $14.85 POLKA FESTIVAL AUG. 26 8:30PM $16.50 $8.25 $8.25 GEORGE' BEf\ISON AUG. 27 8:30 PM ! $22.~ $2.25 $20.25 JAY LENO AUG. 29 8:30PM $15.00 $1.50 $13.50 RAY CHARLES SEPT. 3 8l30 PM • $16.50 $3.30 $13.20 GEORGE STRAIT . SEPT. 5 7:00 PM i $17.50 $1.75 $15.75 .......................................................................................... - ................ ; ............................................... .. GOLDEN BOYS OF BANDSTAND SEPT. 10 8:30PM ! $17.60 $•1.16 $1-5.76 JERRY LEE LEWIS/GEORGE JONES SEPT. 11 8:30PM ! $18.50 - $18.50 iio(ie·R\·wiiiniii<en ................................. ···se\F>r ... 12··· ····a·:3ii\?r.:i ... T\.$\is:oo···· .... $1\.65 ........ $14:9;r·· YAi<OV ·SMIRtfOFF/JERRV SEINFELD SEPT. 19 8:30PM i $16.50 $1.65 . · $14.85 .... ., •• ,,. ... u••••••••i••••n•••n•ooo•u•u••••••••••••••••••\• ••••••••••u\''\'\'''~ .. ,,,..,,.., •• ._.,.,,.,)••••n•••••••••• oouoonoouu••• •••••uu••••n• PETER, PAUL & MARY OCT. 11 8:30PM $22.50 $2.25 $20.25 MIAMI SOUND MACHINE OCT. 23 8:30PM $15.00 $1.50 $13.50 - .. ., DATE CHANGES: ROGER WHIITAKER- ReScheduled from Sept. 18 to Sept .. 12 MIAMI SOUND MACHINE ~ Resc4edulcd from July 17 t0 Oct. 23 ALL TICKETS FOR THE .ABOVE SHOWS THAT IIAVE 'l\IIE OLD DATES WILL BE HONORED ON THE NEW DATES, creasing takeover of broad- casting by market research- based· progr8IIllllirig ... ,\ \lts effect isto dramatically change the face ()f radio. If ·you .are governed by the lowest com- mercial denominators, you end up with no KMET (a radio station in L.A. that recently was the center of national interest due to its change in format from rock and rpll to new age), only new age stations, no theatre, only soap opera, and . no or- dinary people, only Rambo.~' In fact, Waters' storyline for the albtlll1 is in the process of being transfored into a screenplay to be .out next year. Roger Waters, known .for his elaborate stage shows, has implemented new visuals that ·nave· ·been iii production over the past six months With the acclaimed · English television documentary made by ·David Monroe. A great de.al of Work has been put into the · Radio K.A.O.S tour which will com- mence in Europe in August, and · Waiting For God·ot continue in North America in September and ending in Australia in late December. In addition to his plans for the future tour and album, Roger Waters is in the middle of a legal battle against. David Gilmour and Nick Mason who· are releasing a new ·album and attempting to tour under the Pink ·Floyd name (who are scheduled to tour in the near future · in Toronto and L.A.). Roger Waters Was the major 110ngwriter and producer of the albums as well as the ,lead singer and creative force. The battle between Waters and the othet: members of Pink Fl()yd over the rights to the nam~, assets, . and stage effects is currently in the courts and probably will not btl resolved until 1988. W'l;lters h~s claimed he will never record: Qr perform with Dave Gilmour and Nick Mason under the name of Pink Floyd or under any oth~r Cir- cumstance. in the Nott May 19-23 8:00 p.m., The Department of the· Arts & The Jewish Student Union prese·ot: Dr. Vivian Mann-Curator of Judaica The Jewish Museum, New York, NY speaking on: A TALE OF TWO CITU;S A Comparison ·of Ashkenazi and Sephardi Jewish Ceremonial Art Tuesday, ·May 19-4:30 p.m. Arts 21s·

CONCORDJENSIS, Ma' 14, 1987 . Page 15 · . ·recipients wm· be based on academic achievemellt and A • F · financial.need. Awards may be ITofe~ional Resume Service- • -·_ · t ten tl on -_ · r Q_.· · t e_ rn itl•e· S · for as much as. $1,000. -Writing and Typing cover . . SCHOLARSHIPS 111!1111~-- ..... .._._....,__ . Application deadline is June 1 letters, copies. FREE CON· - d· · S . •t •· Til,~ Adolph Cqors Company ~967.Ji'Qrapplicationsandmor~ SUL'l'ATION. 105 Wolf Rd., an . - 0 fOrl le 8: annotmces its 1987 · Coors mformation contact KD Room No. 21. Tel. 489..0005. Veteransy Memorial Scholar- S~holarship Committee, c-0 G' re·· ek w 'k' ·a· 7 :n~~~~:.o:-~: =~e Kt:d, ~=: z# . s.!:'et~i~.::~ ~f~~~~J~ .. ·. · •. . . . . ·. . .. ·. ee: • U ~S. Armed Forces, the 2024 .. Telephone (518) 439-6552. Union St., .2 bedroom, garage, • - - scholarship Qf u.p to $5,900 will ~~!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ $325-month. Mike 393-8191 after IS May 20•2 ___ 3-. beaw-ardedtoa:nllnimum oflOO - · · · . - - 4:3() pm.. recipients. Applicants must be CLUB NEWS Wed., Thur. S t. C . • • 12 6 22 years old or younger f,IS of . Fri. . por s ompetltlons . li . p.m. July 1, 1987, have a cum. of :to ~----.. ....... ---- or better, have completed the NeWJDan Picllic-For 'Union Saturday Sp_ orts finals 12 .. 3 p.m. freslunen year but not their students,_ faculty, staff and senior year, and be a dependflnt . families, Monday, M~y 18, 5--7 at West, Richmond, Library Fields ' of a veteran. For more ih- . pm, Hai.e House Court Yard. In M · I C h ·1 F-1 formation and applications . case of rain Hale House Lower Tile Film Committee - . emona - ·ape .. ·. eld contact the Financial Aid Lounge. Please RSVP by presents:- •Hot Dog Eating Contest for Office. The appli,cation dead,line • Friday, May 15 to Sr. Joan's · 5-15- 5-17, Rwming Scared, at L k · Ch is Jtlly 1, 1987 for the 1981 Office 376-6087-leave name and 7, 9,. and 11. eu erma arity . 2 p.m •• competition. num:tJer attending. Tickets are available at Old •Keg Run 2:45 p.m. -·The Kappa Delta Sorority . ..\Eclipse of Reason/' a new Chapel for $l. •K-Man_ B.and 3.:30·6:30 -p.m. annoi.IIlces the 1987..00 Jean film which shows an actual . A d I Quine Kappa Delfa Scholarship . abortion, and. includes in- F·•·el·d' •. war S, tnc udmg GREEK competition. those ~udents who terviews with several former · · WEEK CUP 5:30 p.m. • ate dir~· descendants .(either abortionist_s. A new perspective ·H . I# •Barbeq·- ues 5\.30 .p.·m. male or female) of a Kappa on the aoortion issue. . 'OC_I\.ey· . Delta member (mother, Thurs.;May21,at7:30p.m.in All un· t d t . . d granllmother, etc.) may apply .. ssoc 1116. Sponsored by the Union . M.· ·e_. e·t··:n·. ·_ ·g • . . IOns ·u·. en s are InVIte Applicants must be fulltime · · 0 ege Pro-Life Forum. tO W8tCh Competitio·n·s· and students at any postsecondary W:a~~~::iuat~ ::st ~-~ . CLASSIFIEDS Monday, May 18 barbeque With the K .. Man Band their sophomore or junior ----~ ......... -- 4 30 •Gree. k Week T·-s·h ... rt. s S·re' on years, graduates must be . : p.m. matriculated in a graduate Hiring- Today! Top Pa)'! Work Sale fO.f $7.Q.Q· program by Jl.Ule 1, 1987. The . at Home. No experience Cl · sel~ion _of the scholarship needed. Write Cottage assroom m •Any ·questions ca· n· be answered SigSaw raised $600 for the Amer-ican· Cancer Society- 36 ·- h.ours- straight Industries, 1407% Jenkins Alumni Gym Norman, Oklahoma 73069. ' -- . - · · · by Tim Matthews 370-4956 PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz diY$1 ¢Sa NeH (florfTH l (fPrx.eTe, Wlh~j. ttl (;€ JhroWN aJT. rf #lfl SAFeTY of ~OJ(RTl~.\ ~\tl n~ve tv ~LLrR1\· J \-

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, May 14, 1987 PERSONALS ·.1 _Dear Steven, Get psyched for a great party - I .promise I'll be there on time! Inka-You'll thank us · M4 YPO--Ha.ppy 2lst~A ; Dr; Niclt,. later ... after t. he honeym. oon. ! : · LITTLE EARLY. WA~EYE- Ju~.thought I'd tell ya you're KNEE -P. g.reat! Yourfuturebridesmaids, · n 1 ·di·· Vortina ami Fifi Love you, Chris H.S.P., M.D.: Gray it is, honey. J. MeA., You cheap vodka woman, you- are you available to C<lnsume soon and can I see some i.d., .please? AK---You don't want to go to LA, they have lots of AIDS there, besides you'll miss all of the pretty snow. ·----~ Let's go \Kool-Aids\ - get psyched! G.]),-1 have MC's but no MP, and MTH, BT! This one is for you Michele. Now will you stop asking? Loveya, Usa Earn money $3 f~r 20 min. Be a subject in my S<1c. Psych. Exp. Call Chris 4094. Kev, Thanx to you the term • security officer has taken on a · new meaning for me. I am forever in your ()ustody~Prun­ Honikel Jess- I had the strangest dream · Saturday night! We'll have to put your anal:ytical mind to work. Tell me llonestly what Would Freud sayi Love, 11be Sleepwalker A Sig be is, A Sig he'll be, Just go out with him, you'll see. A Sig loves to drink, He'll deal at the bar,. You can be sure he'll take you far. · \Donna- do you wanna\: Bra? Beer? Hot- Italian freshman body? A Sig by day, But wait till night, He thinks his moves are all right. Fr;om us. to you: AMF's (-and if you don't know who you are, we do at least). ~ P.S. L-Don't worry about that winter term 2nd. year business! No primate at love, she is a . monkey sl-t! It was just like old . · . times (at the Fac)- You always cheer me up -But then You are the \nice:\ one!' Dear Jeff, I miss you a lot! Love, Tammy Dear Darrell, I hope it's not as bad as you said. Love, Meegan Hey Fi, Ever get a personal before i Nowyouhave ! Me Ljndsay, Thanx for the c}lat. We'Uhave to get toget1ler soon so you can get- some c~experience .. '' . . GJD . ' ' P . S~ Zoe, we want to know what Y<lU said. Lela Ben...., Happy 21st Birthday .. Love Cessy KURT MEYER-Still won .. dering who your Secret Admirer is? Call x4457 to solve the mystery. · ':\ ·,.' ........... -. ··QJ~ ........ ~-·. ,: . ·.\.· .· ·.·· . GARNET NEEDS PICTURES! ACROSS . ,,-'' -. ' .' • = .. - .... . I 1 Carol on . \Growing Pains\ 5 Houseguest for the Tanners CANDIDS, SPRING BREAK, CLU.BS, ETC. 8 Saundra Santiago role 2 Small ox -diem Interest of 26 Down: abbr. PLEASE TURN PICTURES INTO MRS. MARRA, TH·IRD FLOOR 5 Host Griffin \-for Two\ ·~- 222\ Ford or Pyle Delta Burke role ZsaZsa's sister Llitle Rock St. OLD CHAPEL. PICTURES CAN BE RETUR:NEQ. THANK YOU! Charlie ':>n \Head t-:=::-\+---1---t-- of the Class\ Richard......, Anderson Military address L..-...__-L-_,___ Tracking device The- of Aquarius A Turner \Search for -\ She's Krystle: init. Greek vowel \- Strangers\ Trumpeter Al's family Hebrew month Mr. Linkletter A Crosby Autry or Tierney Word 60 Biblical twin 61 Ms. Bagnold 62 \I -\ 63 Calendar abbr. DOWN 1 \The New Newlywed-\ 2 Unique one 3 Desolate 4 Peter or Lane 5 Liable 6 Remickand Marvin 32 Past 7 German title 33 Not used 8 He's Jake Rizzo 36 Tony Curtis role 9 Religious image on \Vega$\ 10 \High-\ 39 Mr. Hitchcock 11 Egyptian dancer 41 Ella - 19 Eternal 43 Engr. deg. 21 Arabic letter 45 Singer Patti 23 Latin ·Jesson word 46 Barbara or Mark 25 Mr. Holbrook 47 lnc;:llan princess 26 Environmental 48 Peggy or Mama grp. 49 Journey 27 Heir 5 i· Pete or Billy 28 Stir 5:2 Snare 29 Title 5:3 X- rated mate~ ial 31 Auricle 5El Attempt Beginning with this preregistration, each student will be allowed to pick up the cards for no more than three (3) \list\ coursesD After signing the lists for those courses in which th~y are interested, students will need to bring their preregistration form (which they pick up at the Registrar's Office in Silliman Hall) with them when they return to the departments to pick up their cards. These forms will be stamped by the departments when a card is issued. Once the form has been stamped three times, no additional cards will be issued to a student. Students should be aware that should they lose their preregistration form, the replacement form that the-y will be issued will be prestamped and thus not usuable for securing course cards. SENIORS Comrr\e~cement is fast approaching and if you are int~rested in ~peaking at · Graduation, please subllllt a 1-4 page draft (about5 mnutes) to either Box 1032 or Box 1079. The topic is yours to choose and the deadline for submission is · Friday, May 22. Also, please include your IDnurnber only on the speech and enclose a separate sheet of paper with your name; box number, phone. number, and ID numller. · ' If -you wish to sing the alma mater and the naHonahnthem, please send your name, b(}x number, and teleehone number to·either:Box 1032 or 1079 before Monday, May 18 and you will be notffied about an audition. S·QPEl ' Gj~l> l>'krz.'E ~ COLOR T.V. l>L~- .......,., .... Prlze--llTERE<>-fiADIO.OASSETTE (Boaln lio.i ~ndPrltHa,.~~~1~=-~U:HASH QAMERA (IIUll-.,..., ... ,®.001 . 31d Prlzt-UNIVEI$AI. TllEPIIONE · (nuoli81UinliTUmol$75.001 FOlDING DINOCI..\AR8to.,.;, -Wilo.- \\' PICK. liP FORMS AT THE EQUIPMENT CAGE - ALUMNIGYM .{ l ·. ,, ,,

( ·.! ·j •, CONCORDJEN.SlSt May 14, 1987 ~age 17 Union Athletes Honor'ed at Prize Da.y Marc Groguen -Alex Rita Rita, a graduate of Union Endicott where he was a· standout performer for the football and baseball team:s, won the William B. Jaffe Medal. The medal is present~d ·to the senior male athlete voted by the Athletic Department to be the outstanding athlete of tile year, taking into account · the character and motivation of the individual in additian to athletic excellence. Debbie Hodih In four years as a starting defensive back on Union's · a four-year starter for .the field nationally ranked football hockey, basketball, · and team, Rita earned 12 All· lacrosse teams. She was cap- American honors. The only tain of the field hockey and freshman to start on the· 1983 basketball teams this year, and team that went to the Amos • was voted the Most. Valuable Alonzo stagg Bowl (for the Player of the 1985 lacrosse Division Ill national cham- season. The field hockey team pionship}, Rita led the Dut- has participated in the eight- chmen with eight interceptions. . team New York State Tour- For his career, the 5-10, 185- nament each .of the last two pounder picked off 18 passes years while the lacrosse· team and led Union in punt return received its first-ever invitation yardage and average each ·of of the state tournament last the last four years. With Rita in season and was again invited to the backfield, Union has posted · the event this year; a fourmyear record of 36-6 and M G has been invited to the 16-team . . ~rc -roguen NCAA postseason.~tQumament., Go·guen;who was. a standout each. of the la~ four years. . hockey player for Thousand Aside from h1s ex~ellence on . Islands Secondary School, won the football team, R1ta has also . the Freshman Male Athlete .of been a standout for Union's · the Year Award. The award is ba~eball squad .. As .a .fres~an presented to a freshman male he led the team 1n h1ttm~ 'Ylth a for attitude, ability, par- , .426 average. He fm~s~ed ticipation, and achievement in second as a soph.omorei. h1ttmg intercollegiate sports. . .359, before a~am I.ea~~g the Goguen played in all2l games team as a j~1or With ~as .451 for the Skating Dutchmen and · average. -pus year R1ta has finished with 15 points on six h~lped Umon to a 15-4 record goa)s and. nine assists. He was With ~~e regular-season game the leading scorer among the · rernammg. . eight freshman forwards or Voted the team's Most defensementhat ·were on this Valuable Player as a jwlior, year's team. Rita was invited to start in · centerfield f()r the New York Rich Romer State Coaches' All-star game at Shea Stadium in May of 1985. Union, which won the ECAC Upstate New York title in 1986, has an overall tecord of 66·25 with Rita in the lineup. Elaine Pick Pick, a graduate of Dwight Englewood High School where she was a standout perf<Jrmer, won the Robert B. Ridings Award. The award is presented to the senior female athlete for: her attitude, ability, par- ticipation, and achievement in intercollegiate sports. During · her outstanding career at-Uni9n, Pick has been R~mer ,- a graduate of Columbia High where he was captain of the football team and an All-Area selection as a senior, won the William A. Pike · Memorial Trophy.The trophy is presented to a junior' male athlete for attitude, ability, participation, and achievement . in. intercollegiate sports. Romer is a two and a half · year starter at defensive end for Union's nation~lly ranked foQtball team. He has led the Dutchmen in quarterbac~ sacks in each of his~ first three years and has a career total of 34 for 251 yards. Thfs year he led the · temn ii} tackles with 48 first Als>e Rita Elaine Pick hits, 29 assists a11d 27 points. He was chosen .:as an Associated Press First Team Little AU- American, a District 1 CoSIDA Academic A.ll-American, an ECAG All-&tar, a First Team Pizza Hut ~li·American, and a First Team '~ootball News All· American. Union, whieh has .posted 9-().C) regular-seasons each of the last two years, is .27-4 since Romer joined the team in 1984. The Dutchmen. lla\Ve been invited to the 16-team rqcAA Tournament each of the ll111st four years and have hosted: the opening round each of the last three seasons. Steve Alves Alves, an All..state selection in both footb;all and wrestling while at We~;t Warwick High, won the Ran.ald F. Plwnb Memorial PrizE. The prize is presented aon.ually to the senior member of tile varsity football team who btest exemplifies the qualities a11cl the charac- teristics of R:onald F. Plwnb, Class of 1980; A three-:yecur letterwinner and twomyear starter for Union's nationally ranked football team, Alves finished second on the Dutchmen's tackle chart this year With 45 first hits, 27 assists and 72 points. The 5'10, 190-pound strong safety picked off seven passes during his career. He was a vital cog in Union's de'fense as the Dut- chmen posted back-to-hack 9~ regular season records the last two years. Union has been in• vited to the NCAA postseason · toumament each of the last four years. Rich Bartosch Bartosch, a fortfier standout at Cororan High, won the Fred W. Bruhn Award. The award is presented to the member of the varsity baseball team who has made the greatest contribution in terms of inspirational leadership, sportsmanship, team and college loyalty, and service as a player. A three-year letter winner for the Dutchmen's baseball team, Bartosch shows a career record of 14-3 including this year's 6-0 mark. Last year he was the ATTENTION SENIORS Get psyched for Senior Week!. ... Men's Track Impressive at State M~eet By MEN'S TRACK TEAM The men's track team took Buffalo by storm last weekend, going up against the rest :of the state ·at the NYSCT&F A meet. Despite taking only a small contingent, the Dutchmen nevertheless fared quite respectably against theicr competiton. Union's highest finish came from senior Mike Reed,. who took a third place in the steeplechase. Reed's time was a relatively slow 9:45.6, but it was outstanding considering· the weather conditions at the meet. The runners were hampere~by a strong wind which often gusted up to 40 MPH. These conditions made staying on the track, much less running qUick times, very difficult. H&wever, the wind didn't seem to bother Union's .freshman tri() of Terry Rathwell, Jeff Simkins and Chip Silver. Rathwell, throwing iilto the wind; tossed the javelin 171 feet 4 inches, only a few feet Short .of his best this yeal\. Rath· well took fifth in that event. Simkins appeared even less disturbed by the conditions as his time of 58,97 in the 400 hurdies was his best ofthe year. Simkins narrowly missed making the finals of the event and wound 11p ninth overall. Union's othel' points came from Silver, who· cleared 6 feet 3 inches in. the big11 jwnp. Silver's sixth place .!finish was par- ticularly satisfying in that he outleaped se-veral jumpers who had previously beaten him. Also running stre>ngly in a nDn- scoring perf.oltmance was Jim LeBrou, wh<n:an a gutsy 10:15 in the ste~ptechase to take fourth in his heat. The Dutclllnen were lacking the~ biggest fun, Rob Mohlar, at the meet. Mohlar, who would have ahnost certainly defended his state 800 meter title instead chose to attend an open meet in Massachusetts. Mohlar turned in a 1:53.2 time at the Boston College Open, good enough for a fourth place finish. Although disappointed in the result, · Mohlar has ne more tuneup race before the NCAA Division III meet. 'This Friday, Mohlar and the Dutchmen will host the Union Spring Classic under the lights. The Spring Classic is expected to be bigger and better than ever as several athletes from around the state will be making their final attempt to qualify for nationals. Rich Bartosch winning pitcher as Umon captured tlle ECAC Upstate New York championship with a 7-2 victory at Hartwick. The Dutchmen, 15-5 this year, are seeded third in the upcoming t()urnament and will play at second~seeded Albany State Thursday at 3 p.m. Deb Rodin Hodin, a foJ;'nier standoUt at. Lexington High School, won the Eastern College Athletic Conference Medal of Merit. The m-edal is presented to the junior female athlete who has com· billed .excellence on the fields of ~()mpetition with excellence in til~ classroom, or outstanding service to the College. ' Rodin is a three-year starter at midfield for the Lady Dut- ~llmen soccer team and has also started for the last three years for the women's lacrosse team. Slle was captain of this year's s~ccer squad, and recently c~ncluded her third year as a starter for the lax team. In three years on the lacrosse squad, she has tallied 41 points on 31 goals and 10 assists. Her c1mtributions have helped the Lady Dutchmen receive in· vitatlons to the New York State T()urnament each of the last two seasons. Summer Squash League Join some hard-core squash enthusiasts on a ladder which will be run <>verthe summer months at the new squash courts at the new gym. We shall be playing with the international ball during these warmer months. 11 there is a flash of interest, please call me, SANDY VOHR, at 377-2910, for more infomration, or sign up on the sheet pinned to the bulletin board across from the cage in the new gym, leaving your name and telephone number so that l might get in touch with you. ((J Treece lk Wcece!k D~ (C (I) lJl1l dllltt See Page 15 for Schedule of Events \

CONCORDlENSIS, May 14, 1987 Page 18 •• • 6 Destroy Engineers Huns Sh·ine in Homecoming· Victory By CHRIS SHERIDAN \They were in awe of us,\ fullback Pat DiCierbo said of RBI after the Union Men's Rugby team's victory last Saturday-a 34-0 destr11ction of the Engineers. Perry Levy scored· Union's first two tries. His first was a 15 meter run around the right side, the conversion successful by DiCierbo ·. His second was a scissors play-a dish-off from line•captain Steve IConlian. Levy cut to Konlian' s right untouched for his 15 meters before the try. Again, DiCierbo converted and Union was ahead, 12.0. Senior eight-man Jeff Albrecht scored yet an()ther try this season. He caught the ball off a short line-out and ran it in, dragging three RPI ruggers behind him. DiCierbo missed the following conversion, and soon after he barely missed a penalty kick for the Buns-however, Union still didn't slow down. Chris Sheridan, late in the first half, scooped up a loose ball, and ran it about 15 meters before making a blind pass to wing-forward Jody Perkins, who ran the extra 20 in for a try of his own. DiCierbo hit the crossbar on the conversion, and the first half ended. with Union ahead, 20.0. As usual, the big lead didn't make Union let up at all. Albrecht scored again...,Uving ovetthe .line after grabbing the ball out of a five-meter serum. \The Natural\ Larry Grob kicked the conversion through, and Union had another six. The next Union score was intitiated by a run by wing Steve Delane, who passed it off to Konlian, to Perkins, and finally to the other Wing Jeff Zorn who pushed it in for four more. Grob's kick was wide. Serum captain Rob Sharp missed sloring by about six feet When he was ~opped by four RPI ruggers. However, Union's next try was initiated by Sharp's effort. He pushed the ball close to the line, took the hit, and Sheridan scooped up the loose ball and ran in for Union's final try of the year. Prop Steve Lipsky missed the conversion and the final score was 34-0, Union's favor. \It was nice to play in front of . . . D'Iorio breaks her own record home town fans \ Zorn said ' . . ' after the game. \It pumped us up and we pominelled RPI.\ DiCierbo felt that 'eWe played well. We ·intimidated RPI as we have in past years.'' Another aspect of last Saturday's game, is that for many of the senior$, it is the last rugby game they will ever play. According to Tom Christiansen, he was thinking about the ·same · thing that the other seniors were thinking about, !'This is it,\ he felt, \the end. of our illustrious careers. We all wanted to .go out there and d,o well-not as individuals, but as .. 11 team. I think we ac- complished that.\ The Union KiUer B's, although they did nDt win their • . bame, .played excellent rugby. 'nte first half was ltighlighted by John Baker's try off a South Hampton play. Serum half Marty Buonoconti passed the ~ back to Tom Muzzinigro . who ran the ball weak side, made Tom Michael's man COillffiit to him and then passed off to Michael who ran the ball down field. After getting hit, Baker scooped up the ball, and plowed through foul\ defenders before diving in for the try. \I should have passed Spud (Dave Webb) the ball bt!-t I figured he'd drop it .so I didn't giye,it to him.\ DiCierbo missed the conversion_ and after the first half, Union was losing by a · score of 6-4-an impressive score, considering the fact that Union's :B's were playing against Albany Knicker- bocker's Men Club B side--a very good team. Albany's A side is perhaps tbe best rugby side in upstate New York. The second half, however, didn't go .so well. Substitutes for Union were put in :and the in- tesnity was lost. Union ended up . losing 24-10, their extra siX came when eight man Andy Sobel picked up a loose ball and dove it in for the try. The conversion was successful by way of DiCierbo's foot, and Union had 10 up on the board-,. not. enough for the win, but still an impressive showing against a good team . Women Tracksters Enjoy Trip to ECAC's · By TRACK TEAM Fasten your seatbelts and look out Maine. Ah YUP! Here they come. Five members of the Union College Women's track team guided by coach Larry Cottrell took off for the ECAC championships at Bowdoin College. The result a weekend adventure·neverto be f~rgotten. Yes, we went to Maine to compete and .we ran through rather wen. The higPiigbt of the competition for Union was senior Jen Diorio's record- breaking throw and .sixth place finish in the javelin. Onee again, Jen broke her own schol)l reco1·d with a throw of 37.83 meters. Jen also competed in the discus in which shethrewberdisc 104.8. meters, just short of qualifying for finals. Senior J.ulie Halpern gained a fourth place finish in the 400 meter hurdles with a time of 66.9 , and junil)r Jenny Lee ran a time of 2:24.8 in the BOO meters. The mile relay time also qualified to compete, however, luck was not on their side this weekend. The team headed up by Halpern who passes to Lorie Anderson to Clare Ginsberg Lytle to Lee was keeping up with the pack when they suffered the misfortune of dropping their baton. However, they still managed to run a time of 4:18.6. & we ran but we did so much more. Three days in Maine, hot~l and meals provided by Union we managed to have quite a good time. We took the scenic route along Route 1 stopping at the Nubble Lighthouse in York to take a few pictures as tourists do, finally arriVing at our destination in the early evening. Saturday after our grueling day of competition, we took a leisurely ride down the coast to Bailey's Island, where Jen Diorio and Julie Halpern reverted back to their childhood playing in the seaweed~ And fl\any on Sun- day, when it was time to head home and we thought the fun . was over, we all received a- · Mother's Day present. Lorie Anderson's mom cooked us a delicious dinner as we wined and dined on curried chicken and hot fudge sundaes at the Anderson residence. This completes the 1967 outdoor track season for the majority of the team. Our last meet is this coming Friday here at home. It should prove to be quite a good meet as many people look forward . to qualifying for Nationals, which will be held in . Chicago the following week. We look for· ward to· seeing you all there supporting Union Track in the last endeavor for the 1987 outdoor season. Baseball Makes ECAC's Union baseball ended the season with a record of t!H. Congratulations to Rich Bar- tosch who won the Fred W. Bruhn Award of $100. Come out and cheer on the team when they play Albany in the first round of the ECAG tournament at Albany on Thllrsday af-:- ternoon. Congratulat~ons again! Sports Talk Photos and Interviews by Alan Klapper Question: Will Boston (Celtics) rep·eat · as NBA Cham.pions and who do you thin:k will be MVP? Mark Decker '88 Boston w.ill win - McHale will beMVP. Charlie Stotkilc '88 .. No. This is the year of the Supersonics. They will defeat the Celtics in 7 games. Tom Chambers will be MVP. Robert Sharp '87 No. Boston won't repeat. The whole state of Mass. makes me nauseous! Bird will probably he MVP. Bob McGowan '88 Boston will repeat - Dermis. Johnson will be MVP. · · Chris Larsh '88 - Bird will he. the MVP. Celtics will w,in against the Lakers in game 7.

1987 l? / , . Athlete of the Week By CHitlS IJINCKLE¥ The men's baseball team at Union College il!! once .again putting the finishing toqches on a successful :Season. The nut .. chmen are the defending ECAC upstate champs, and are loQlting to repeat this year. Recently, the team has been on a tear, Friday they -defeated t}le University of I«Jchester and on Saturday, they swept a double- header from Hobart. In allthree· of these wins, one player's performance sto()d above the rest. His name is Anthony Amerante and he is this week's Athlete of the Week. · In the ao-10 destruction of the Univ.ersity of Rochester, Anthony accumulated an outstanding 11 rbi's. His five hits included a three run and a grand slam homer, a two run triple andtwo singles. lie went 5 for ,7 and left a powerful im- pression on the Rochester team. The next day tbe Dutchmen faced Hobart for a double header. In the first game, Anthony came off the bench to pinch hit with the Dutchmen down and about to lose. He answered the call with a twom run home run to give the Dut- chmen a 15-14win. Inthesecond game, the team won again by a score of 16-6 and Amerantewent 2 for 3. The team record as a result of the weekentl. victories stands at 15-5. Anthony transfe.n·ed from SUNY Albany last ::year and began his athletic ~career at Union by punting for the foot~ ball team. The 6,'0\ 190 lb. A1tlarenteis a civil engineer and a member of the class of 1989. He llails from · Bohemia, NY where he at- tended ST. An tho my's High School in SmithtoW!l. If Anthony's perfomance this week keeps up for tller~:est of the l?eason, and the rest()r the team ;performs. well, then the Dut- chmen should hav-e a good chan·ce of successltll post season play. · Men's Tennis: A Retrospect By ANDREW MILLER The men's tennis season is now over and it is time to look back and see what we have to look forward to. We definitely won't look forward to seeing another dismal 1-10 record. In fact, if '88 doesn't bring. at least a .500 season, we have a right to be a little disappointed. This is in no shape or finm meant to put pressure on first year coach, Anna M~s. For Means to put together a winning season after this year's difficulties would. be· a yeoman's task. The league is just too strong and the team will be too young. Dutchmen tennis '87 was a year of change. Anna M.eans replaced Al Bagnoli as Union's coach. Means, after suc- cessfully coaclling the women's team for years, took on the challenge to control all of Union's intercollegiate tennis activity. The big change in '87 came in the form of renewed enthusiasm. W:ith coach Means' . attempt to open up the sport to encourage new blood, the number · of c-andidates for varsity spots soared from close to twenty, in '85 to near forty in '87. Names and faces were on the move in '87. Out, in the form of transfers, went Union's Number One and Two players. In came a host of freshmen and sophomores, and emerging were two players finally given the spotlight. UniQn's nwnber one player, lacrosse ... Continued fr()m p.age 20 will not be easily filled in up- coming years. Peter AgriCola: Peter, a three year letter Winner, was un- fortunately plagued With in- juries during his senior cam• paign. Pete provided a much needed scoring punch his junior season, yet was IUlable to get out of the blocks this year. }>laying in Qnly a few gamesthis year, his presenee and leadership was sorely missed. Will Pierosol: Will, a senior attackman, was also plagued by injuries thl'oughout his lacrosse career. While playing in only two games thi$ Se8son, Will was a stabUizi,ng fac.tor behind the cage for the Laxrnen •. After Jlis promissing freShman' year, Will was elQ)ected to produce many goals &Qd assists this year for Union. Hislosswas another that severely hurt the Dutclunan offense in the 1987 season. . AlSo having strong seasons on offense for the Dutchmen were Sean Morton, .Andy Alb~rt. Doug Bank, will be sorely . · missed. Bank was a true team player. The co-captain was in top form and spirits for every match. Although hampered by a late season injury, . Ba11k managed to compile winning records in_ both the singles and doubles. The four year varsity letter winner was the backbone to the· team .. Bank will pass his teign at nwnber one ,over to junior·t<r-be Chad Levin. Levin, this year's nwnber two playerand co-captain, will have big shoes to fill. Levin closed the season playing nothing short -of spectacular tennis~ His game progressed steadily over ;the season to the point where he -was victorious in his last fotn\ out of five singles matches. Levin possesses an artillary of strokes tltat keep him in competiton with the best .of players. 1be to-be-missed category is headed by Jon Cunningham and Dave ·Lesch. Cunningham, wbo came back strong from a broken arm, was a towering force in both singles and doubles play. The wiry senior can . play you into the ground. May it be his·conSistent baseline stragegy ()r his ferocious n:et game, Cwminghlliil has the weapons to beat you and beat you at your owQ game. Dave Lesch,. Uni()n's steady doubles player; had a year plagued with injuril!s. Lesch . suffered a tailbone injpry in the Winter and was hampered by the nagging Chris Ramsay, Matt Arnold and Scott Daniels. On defense, Goalie John Thorne had a season that measured up to the pre-season predictions. Ending the season with his beSt save percentage of ;693, Thorny was one save away from that elusive 70 percellt save ratio. A .strong _candidate for All-American, John was indeed' an instrwnental part llf the Union squad. Also playing strong seasons for the laxmen :were starters Mark Leyton, Gary Cornick and Greg Leahey. COming off the bench in strong fashion were the always conD sistant Chuck Weber and Fresh .. man Steve Garnett. This solid unit was also helped out by Ramsay and Uccillini during the seaSon. In fact, it was tms defensive squad Which kept Union in the game early on in the season when their offense was struggnn,. Special_ credit goes to backup goalie Jeff Johnson who was able to take much of the strain off -of Thorne . Perhaps most sad about the last g~e -of the season is tlle -pain all season. His stunning voll~ys and steady basseline play Will be sorely missed. When :stlllliling volleys and steady baseline play .are the topic of conversa'ti~n, then Union's Dan Elk:eslas~y and Jim O'Brien are slll.'e to be .brought up. The D11tchmen's replacement for C11IJll.ingham and ~scb will fall -upon the shoulders of Elk:esl11ssy and O'Brien.. The Ncn·roccan born Elkeslassy w-as '87':s biggest surprise. Elkeslassy, without any previoii.S school tennis, played v.ery com- petitively in both r;iJigles and doubles. O'Brien, Cl' · transfer student, . brought witll him a rock solid tennis gatne and the free-spirited attitude tllat kept the team at ease. Senior Andre Le:;Pierre, a spot varsity player, ~ also be missed. LesPierre we~ a finesse player with volleys tllat would make anyone jealou~. AndyMiller,Joe V()9tiky, and Jamie Clark all pla:yed spot varsity matclles a11d will be looked to in .'IJB to fill the gaps left by graduation ~ith quality play._ . . The best bet for '8~1. comes in . the form of freslune11 students. Coach Means has been notified bY two top players ()f their in- tentions to attend Onion next year. These additi!Jn~ to the lineup should form a potent weapon for the '88 cai~paign. To the graduathg seniors, goodbye, good luck, ~rnd thanks for the memories. loss of the leadership and play of the seniors on •lle team. Graduating this ye21: will be attackman Will Pier:S!Jl, Mid- fielders Andrew RollS and Pete Agricola, and defenset.nan Mark Leyton. All players pla)teiiCi major roles in. the turn arolllld of Ute Union lacrosse telllil ill the last four years, as these, were the only players to wit11ess the 3-9 · season four years a~<J. For the first time in many yers, this · senior class is grad~ting wi~ an ov~rall winning record. Th!s is indeed a tribute .to their · abilities and contributions. atnntnr~ien.tii& SPORTS This week the NBA i~ the toj)lc of conversati~n. When you think of the NBA you probably th¥lk of the Celtics, Lakers or whatever your favorite team may be !if it is not one of these~ Well,. there is a reason for the fact that the first two names that pop into yoW' head are the Celtics and Lakers. Since 1959; 23 years ago tile Celtics bave participated in the ~BA Championship game an astoiUlding 17 times, while the takers have been iil it 14 times · of their own. Out of the 28 championships since then, either the Lakers, the Celtics or roth of them t()gether have participated in 22 (}f them. That is an unbelievable statistic. Although the Celti(!S have been considerably more successful thsn the Lakers, holding a 11).2 record compared With a ~-10 re<md for the !.akers, it is still an amazing feat to participate in the championship game so frequently. others may not look at this like I do, lrut I consider this a problem. Tbe same problem could be seen in the 12 Sure, oUter teams • ~ • h.ave won the title, but eventually the Celtics and Lakers come out on top. . years between 1964 and 1975 in NCAA basketball when UCLA won the title 10 times including a string of seven in a row. Streaks like this are not good for the sport.. Back t() the NBA excluding the Midwest, unless you're a fan of tile Celtics, Lakers, or Milwaukee, your team hasn't even won its division in at least six: years and probably . more like ten. Although the Sixers did Win the Atlantic division, and even- tually tile Title in 1983, they seem to be the classic example of the team that is consisteptly gQDd, yet never seems to be able to overcome the :playoffs, in other words, tile Celtics. Sure, other teams like the Knicks, Seattle and Washin~on, just to name ~a few, have won the title but eventually the Celtics .and Lakers seem to come out on top the next year, ending any · potential dynasties. 'I'he fault in this lies not in the Laker or Celtic organizations but in with the rest · of the NBA teams. When. a team becomes part of the NBA, it is their duty to try and put together a competitlve and wen\balanced team. When · teams such as Sacramento, Golde~ State, Indiana, New Jersey andthelike are satisfied with finishing last or close to last year after year, sometb.ing is wrong With the ideals of the entwe league. Wilen the league was set up, the objectives of it were to try and win the title. The teams that are perfonning laekadaisically t()wards that NOT IN 'THE BOX SCORE Marie Zimmerman goal are doing their city, the fans, and the entire NBA, a disservice. If teams could find \''better ways of recruiting and )}tlt up more money towards the organization, the 'wealth' of the NB.A would be spread out ~rt~:ttnd the entire league and not jt:JStin a llandful of select cities. 'I'.be same thing is happening in b()ckey as well. If you scan the list <If Stanley Cup Cham- pions since 1926, you will notice tbat tile name MONTREAL is pre~ent every two or three spa.ces s.m¢times for three, folll' or even five spaces in a row. Earlier, Toronto was a force, too, but in the last 30 years, Montreal has won the Cup m()re than half .the time. Teams such as Philadelphia, the Isbmders and more recently, the Oilers, have hacJ.,tbeir string ofyears as well, btlt. no o.ne has come close to doing what Montreal bas done 1!l the art of hockey. This is practically the same scenario as is llappening in tlle NBA. .A drnittedly, Canada is a ;(jomlnant force in the gcm~e of llocltey, but every team in the ::NJIL is dominated by Canadiens m itsh()u)dn:'t have anything to «b with where the team plays its l:t()me games. :Baseball and football on the ()t:ber llan<l, are quite the con- arar-y. No one has won a World Seri{)S in back-to-back years sine~ the Yankees of '77 and '78. Eaclt year it is race to tile finish ln ~ch division, usually with .totally different results from the :vear .before. Football, has mad somewhat the same .slitu~Jtion for the past few fecades with the exception of tile Steelers in the 1970's. - J.f other teams • • . don't improve ••. the Celtics and Lakers will s;plit tbe next 30 titles. Basketball is becoming a two ~t earn affair. If the other teams ill the NBA want to keep the lriterest of the fans as well as Improve tlleir chances of vic- t.ory ,they had better start doing something different or the Celtics and Lakers will split the mm .341 titles as well. The term ':pellllant rac:e' does not even l.\ellidely apply to basketball. AlthCJugh llockey is somewhat t:llesame, it is not as far gone as basketball. A baseball game I!Jlay be less exciting than a basketball game, but when you .r;pre~d the action . out over a ·r;eaSCJn, it is the NBA which !llses ,out in 1he long run. Play-ers like Michael Jordan mn<l Domillique Wi.lkins can llrillg fallS to the game ~liere-ver tlrey go. However, it t;ake~ alot more than a few ,IJlayErs t~ keep the fans in- t;er:-ested in a sport which is ·literaly dominated by a few :t.eams. - ..

\ P~ge 20 Union Lax ends colla:red season - May 14, 1987 Laxmen Finish with 4 Win Flurry Derby Days for Diamond Dutchmen ByCPSIS The Union College lacrosse team finished the season with f~ur straight impressive vic- t~ries to end the season at a respectable 7-4 record. During this four game win streak, the Lumen successfully defended the Capital District Cup, and put to rest all thoughts that the lax program had lost its will to win in the 1987 season. Much of this credit must go to ti:J.e Lacrosse coaching staff consisting of head coach Mike Toop, defensive coach Chuck Priore, and attack coach Dave &berts. Definitely the best coaching staff within memory, the Dutchmen were able to pull out tight games due to this superior guidance. Toop, in his tttird year as head coach, kept the winning attitude strong in his young squad. As defensive coach, Priore, just over from Albany State, proved t~ be an excellent coach and strategist. Also, coach Roberts, who was purely a volunteer, has to be commended for his loyalty as wEll as his coaching ability. The team itself ended this strong season by defeating Hartwick by a score of 9-6. The Dutclunen got off to a very slow start as Hartwick snuck in 3 quick goals in the first quarter. YEt in their last game, the la..nnen were not about to let down their graduating seniors with a loss in their final game. Coming back strong, the Mark leyton spoke softly and carried a big stick in '87. Dutcilinen evened the score at three apiece by half-time. In the re·ma.ining quarters, Union oui~><:ored Hartwick 6-3 in a gll!lr.le dominated by the Union sq11a!l. On offense for the Dutch~ rnm, Len LaMonica led the SC()r-hlg with 3 goals and 2 a~i:l~s. Phil Horn had 2 goals a~td an assist while Blake Flellclerson pumped in two g()als .. Finishing up the scoring VIas Dave DeBaradinis and Pete Cotier with a goal a piece. · Amb:ew Ross and Tony DaRin E~cllllad one assist. ()n(!e again .the defense had a stromg game as goalie John 'lbome posted an impressive 73 pe:ree11t save ratio. On defense, jtlllicll:.\ Chuck Weber had an eSIJecially strong game as he led the defense consisting of Gr'eg Leahey, Gary Cornick, StEve11 Garett, and senior Mark · Leyton. Fillishing off the year, LaM:oonica led the Dutchmen in sool\lng with a season comen- se:rate of his abilities. His 8 go.als and 19 assists gave him a on.e tM>int lead over junior Phil llorm who ended with 22 goals a11.d four assists. Just behind IIOI'Il in scoring was last year,s SC()r-jBg champ Tony DaRin, Vibo finished with an impressive 19 g0cals. and 6 assists. Other sc«ll\it:ag ·leaders were senior A!Jdrew Ross with 18 points, DeSo with 12 points, Cotier, Ele~k~ Ilen,derson, Pete Agricola an.d Nick Baratoff all having stt\ollg seasons. Also scoring \Vere freshman Sandy Hudson, Seni~r Will Piersol, Mike Uce-ellini, and defenseman Le:alley and Cornick. By CARA TABACK As the Union trio of Ken Horan, Dave Giordano and Steve Alves held Ham'ilton to only four runs, Glenn Kata went 2 for 2~ and Pat Secchiaroli went 2 for 4 on May first,. the starting gun signaled the beginning of the Kentucky Derby. This .was the first of two three-day baseball weekends. The Union players couJd not be seated in front of their televisions wat• ching the horserace-live; so, as if in retaliation they staged their own derby-a homerun derby, one weel~ later. Sunny May Day weekend Union traveled to Cooperstown to play Rochester in the second annual Hartwick Tournament. It took eleven innings plus Marty Hurley's move from DH to pitcher in the seventh inning for Union to finally defeat Rochester. Dave Anderson hit a three run homer in the seventh and scored the winning run in the elev.enth, both integral to the win. Hurley did not forfeit his role as DH as he drove in Anderson for the winning RBI to lift Union over Rochester 7-6. The next day in the finals of the tournaments, Abner Doubleday Field watched Rich Bartosch lead Union over Hartwick for the second time thiS year. In the first game of the season Hartwick lost to Union 10-3. The game was revisited; the final score 10-4. Union slaughtered Hartwick's ace pitcher Don Montgomery who ·started the game with an ERA of 0.58. Dave Anderson hit his second homer in twQ <lays and also smashed a double for 3 Seniors RBI's. Tony .Amarante and J\nclrew Ross: Andrew, a four · freshman Pat Secchiatoli each y~r letter winner, was most went 3 for 5. This was the first of defillitely a catalyst for the ~ two multi-game weekends. Uhi()n Laxmen. As face-off Anderson's two homeruns set !liM,. this four year starter was the precedent; only over- r.e:lp~>nsible for generating indulgent bats and excessive nimlerousfast break goals. The run-scoring could follow now. strongest member of the Dutch- Early Friday 111orning, three men. squad, Andrew proved to vans departed with the be a. versitile player on both combination of turkey and tuna offer~se and defense. This two · subs brought Union to the sit~ of ye~r captain will be sorely an enormous homerun shot off a rnissed in years to follow· · donnitory by Alex Rita two N2il\k Leyton: Mark, also a · years ago at the University of four rear letter winner, proved Rochester. to re~the backbone of the Dutch· . rnen defense this season. The . Nine innings, thirty runs and BeC()lld srongest member of the twenty-two hits. later, Union d., M k p vided stability players shook their heads in sqt1a ar ro · · . · · disbel1\ef at the scorebook w·· ht'ch anfi strong play throughout his fCJI.ll' rear career. A good stick resembled one blue blot of ink. llmcller, and perhaps Union's The final score was 3o-10; it was best one-on-one defenseman, · a batter's fantasy. iMarlt will also be a void that Union's nine-run fourth and twelve-run ninth, were merely typical. Sur~lp1 cllill ran up the spine of Red fux::: \Vade Bogg$ as third basern~a \Tony .Amarante followed Dav~ AllderSo11' s lead the week ll~fore.; .Amarante powered 1iiVo llomer:uns, a grandslam 1111da tllree l\llll shot, a triple and~·· single to rack up ten RBI's. :P:at Sec<!biaroli countered -witb ;a five for seven day, one do~~oble\ one triple and two singles. Aruly Mark()poulos, entering the g~rne in the top ·Of the ninth, walli:edonceandbit a three run b()IOer to l\ight field for 4 RBI's ib·ordy one irlaing of offense. Tim ()'{..eary hit his first double of the year .. Fresh- man Scott ltellorfano scored two runs in tlJe 11illth on a walk and a single. h:lltis first start of tne year, pL1eher Steve Alves pitched an a<lrllirable 4 and one third innings, ))ut relirlquished the win to Stlpllornore reliever Dave Giord!lllo. Two tJni()n p-itchers demonstratE(i their reverse ability to deahviti:J. the_b~seball. Mike Switze~ IValked andscored in his debut liS a hitter. Rich Bartosch, also ill his fir'm: plate appearance, came away with a batting a. Vtllt\a.ge almost equivalent to IlLs ERA of 0.98. He surpasse!l his respected ERA with a bwop single towards .right field. Grinning -widely at his mockingly ba})]lY teannna.tes as he ran doWn 11Je first l>ase line, he knew he ll'W()Iuld see the plate again, but ()lily from the pit- cher's' molJIS;d .. lie did end a successful batting career at Union, 1 .f<CJl\ l, hitting a thousand. The team stayred overnight in Canandaigua. to play · a <louble header agadmst H~bart the following de~r.IJ1H th()ugllt that they were fbcded with bets for the Kentuckl{l>er)ly; tl:Jey had nothing. Playel's. speculated on the number d ~IDlsUnion would score before tlile end of the weekend. GuEs:Ses ranged from 55 to 70; thE winllel\ ...... A:fidy Markopolllos ¥Vith a wise and moderate gue;s of 61. Union seor-ed nine rllllS the first inning ofthe HobaM game but ceased smiling as they found tbemselve:s tied at 14 by the end of tilE' sixth. They had been bitting. all day. Ever- dependable AJex Rita was 3 .for 3 with a double and a homerun and 5 R.Br,. Third baseman Tracy Valaclimvic had a fine day offensively- rand defellsively as be went 3 for ~- Catlter Bill Butcher joined Dave Amderson fortwohits antit\woRBrseach. Obviously &bart bats were tllmking tlle same thing. Bllt, comting on his hot bat, Uni()n br()ught Tony . Amarante in tD pineh hit in the seventh. Sure en()llgh his heavy hitting strEak pl(llughed on with a twCJ- · run shot to left which put Union up by one run. Steve Alves kept tbem hitleoss in the bottom of the inndng. l.Jil.ion !tad scored 34 runs in sixteen illnings, two games, with the second game of the do1.1bleb.ee~der to go. Union S<med.fivEin1he first after Rita walked, Bill Brundige doubled a:nd Steve. Alves ·homered. Co11se.cutive singles by Amarante, Dan Klinger and S.ecehiaroli followed by a Hlil'ley double, O'Leary walk and Scott Gold!lmith single scored five runs. Bill Brimdige loolced. fine at second base and went 3 for 4, scored three run13, stole one !lase and batted in one run. · Klinger's 'Darryl Str;~wberry..ofaa•day, 4 for 6 witll a homer to left and two RBJ'so11 tile day combined with three hits each, by Goldsmith (4 -RBJ's) andbyHurley (3 RBI's), to shoot lJnion over Hobart 16-6. Union had 21 hits. Tim V alachovic pitched a strong · game, lli:.s best game this sea:mn, as he pitched Ule entire sevcEn :iimi:ngS on his birthday. Union ended with a .321 team batting average; Rita only decimal JJlaces away from .500, Anderson, Amarante, Sec- chlarili and Hurley straddled aro'tlllcl tbe .400 mark and Klirlger m~ching for the .300 spot. · Tile derby ended victoriously for 1J11iCJn. For just as this week, in baseball history, com~ meme>rates stan Musiars five homers ln a double header aga:fusttll~ Giants in 1954, Astro Bob WatSCJn scoring the one millionth:. rtln against the Giants in 1!175 and Jhn Gentile's grand slam homeruns in the first and second inllings in 1961, Union made baseball derby history of their o\U. .. :s~up·po.RT UNION SPORTS

,ex No. 2,s Persian Gulf Incident U.S.S. Stark Hit By Iraqi Missile By FIONA SHUKRI Professor Dwight Phaup Faculty Lecture Limited Test Ban Treaty Topic of Minerva Lecture 411· ege 1877 Sunday night, M~Y. 17, 'dthde Ex. ?m.ines. u.s i U.S.S.Stark,anAmericangui e \- Lawrence Weiler, a By EZRA SHERMAN •• missile frigate, was attacked in r· ra.···. ·de n· , ef.l' .. cl' t professorial lecturer at George the Persian Gulf by an Iraqi Wastlington Universi~y who h~s aircraft. Official reports list 37 25 years experience .m crewmen dead. As of tbis. writing, · Fallac. ies C_ited, · neg()tiatiQns with the Sov1et Students protest the planned construction of a parking between McKean and Wells HousEs. the ship is being tQwed to the · Unioll on arms control, gave a Sti;lte of Bahrain., '85 miles south- a·o'tr:ernm.• ent Trade public 1.1ddresslast Wednesday on west of the site ()£the attack. The \' \The Current Status of Arms .. two main questionst() be resolved · B · C · t' · d Control Efforts.'' In his lecture, are why, exactly, the Iraqi air- . arners n lClZe . Weiler talked about the history of craft fired, and why the frigate, al'Ills control .• the threat of SDI, technologically capable of By CHIUSTINEHONG • andthe way the individual citizen detecting and incapacitatin.~ the • . . nts into the fight for arms con- mi~:~sile, did. mt defe,nd 1ts~lf. : \Thlde ~t'esenbteU.S .. ~raded~ef1ca1st . ti~Dl. -WaSlting:ton is postponmg. shou n t . . . V1ewe . · The Limited Test Ban Outer questioning -the· captain, omru.- ..... sha.meful,\ stated Professor Spaee Resolution of 1963, which Glenn R. Brindel, as to his Dwight Phaup at the Faculty Weiler says was the initial deciSion not to defend' the Stark . Colloquium Inaugural Address breakthrough in arms contr?l, or retaliate, reasoning that the this past Thursday. ~e eve~t, sheds light on the role of them- Students Set Up Camp to Protest -Parking Lot Construction Hope to Heighten Campus Awareness- . · a member of Kappa Alpha, aiJout ay D.B. GULLIVER • a week ago students noticed' that captain's pr.imary concern at this which took place m Social dividnal in curbing nuclear Protesting of proposed con- time is the stabilization and Sciences 016, attra~ted _an weapons production. When structi()n of a parking lot on what maintenance of the Ship. audienc~~;J .of nearly 100 mcluding scie!ltists in the Soviet Union and . is now a grassy field, several Following the attack, Pre!!ident Vice•Presidents D'Andrea. and the United States found nuclear Union students have pitched tents Reagan placed all forces m the Maranville and President fanont deposits in mother's milk and placed signs on the site to gulf area ~n a. state _of _hig~er Morris. from above ground nuclear tests, bring the issue to student at- alert in which aircraft mdicating \Trade barriet~s act as a American women became tention. hostile Intent will be fired upon kind of consumer . frtg~Wmed and wrote letters to Also see letter p. 11 unless they provide adequate the government. K~nn.edy was . . . notification of their intent. Iraq's censorship.\ ablE to act on the Lumted Test , Monday mght, May 18, was the president Sadarit Hussein sent a Ph a up, the Chauncey _H. • Ban Treaty because he had the first night that student~ camped formal letter of apology to . Winters Professor of Economics back:ing .of a powerful con· ou~. ~e students at f1rst were President Reagan within hours of at Union, presented his lecture stituency. As a proponent of arms prunar~y K~ppa Alpha members the State Department's demand \The Trade Deficit and U.S. contr-ol and a believer in the and th~rr friends; however, the that Hussein provide \a full Economic Policy\ in a two-part power of individual citizens, protest1snot sponsored by Kappa accounting and explanation\ of format: the first half was Weiler adds that arms controlis .a ~~ha. The };nembers ~r.es~, that the incident. Hussein states that · dedicated to a discussion of the fact «lf individual responsibility. It ts not a ~ou.se actiVItY but tne Iraqi planes had no intent~on economic explanations of the Weiler maintains that both the instead, acbon by .· conce_rned of striking any target belongmg trade deficit, the second half to Soviet Union and the United students. As of_ Tuesd~y ~Ight~ to any country ()thet than Iran. the actual problems that arise State~ have contributed to the several member~ of Chi ~SI had Hussein stressed that he did not when applying these ex- arms race in their own ways. By also e:xpressed mterest. m the want the \unintentional ac- planations as formulations for maill.taining an attitude of campo11~. . . cident\ to af.fect U .S.-Iraq solutions to the trade deficit. secrecy, the Soviets have con- The fteld ts approxn;nately 40 relations and expressed his Phaup's discussion of the tributed to the \can't trust the yar~ by 20 yar~s a~d IS locat_ed condolences to the families of the theoretical explanations to the :Russians\ mentality that many behmd the Cln Psi fratermty crew. Pentagon officials state present U.S. trade deficit brought Hawks use to justify U.S. house, between. Kappa Alpha that they believe that the. Iraqi him to talk of the two basic militarization. For its own part, ~ouse and Wells House: Th~ field aircraft did not know that the schools of thQught on the topic: the U:nited States has maintained 1s popular among Chi Psi and Stark was an American warship. the microeconomic aspect and the i!l:ea Of a technological fix for Kapl?a Alpha members for Naval experts assert that the · the macroeconomic aspect. The its defensive pr-oblems. The first playt~g ball, cookcmts, and Stark tracked the Iraqi plane by microeconomic aspect is what MIRV's where the brain child of loungmg.. , radar and sent two radio warn- Phaupreferredto as the bilateral Continued on page 3 According to Dave Wasser 87. ings identifying itself as an or sectorial view. This approach American vessel. As the war- basically assumes that the deficit nings were not acknowledged, it was a result of a ntis- remains uncertain whether the management of trade . policies messages were received and with the Far East, in particular, understood. They also said that with Japan. The macroeconomic Brindelreported a11 equipment to approach blames the deficit on be operational earlier that day, two reasons: the U.S.'s level of but that doesn't insure that the · spending, and where the spen- equipment was turned on or that ding has been focused. it didn't malfunction when the · The second half focused in on missile was actually fired. why· depending on these in- .c .. ~ E (/) g stakes had been placed ill tbe lawn, whichis adjacent t() the house. Rob Blinkoff, the president of the Kappa Al,llha society, went to Dean of Students Joseph Manunola, who infol'lli!ed Blinkoff that a parking was IJe:mg planned. However, the stales nave since been removed and Physical Plant administration had \no comment\ on tile situation at this time. Student objections lu~ve several bases. Foremost is tile idea of yet more grass on carnpllS being replaced with pavement. The field does receive rnueh recreational use that would be impossible on pavemeJJt. Seconclly, the lot would be m- sightly. It would be proximate to . student residence areas and to tlle fence around campus. J()hn Bergeron '87, a Chi Psi brothEr, 11oted that the campus ap- • pearance to passers-by would also be less appealing. Tile necessity of additional parking is also questioned. rile !()t, according to Wasser, womld Continued on page 2 · · ;:::::::·:).:~~:::I,::::r=ft.::::::t,liis ·· · · · · · · ·Issue: ,·. Fitzhugh • Ludlow 'special· p.g. 4 ... ': : .. ·. Travel Tips pg. 7 A IDS Survey pg. 9 Election Statements . pgs.. 12 & 13 . There is some haziness con- terpretations can. b7 ha~ul. cerning the Stark's mission in the Government retaliation, m the gUlf as normally t~e frigates are form of tariffs, should not be used as protectiOn for U.S. based em these principles, ac- merchant vessels and as a cording to Professor Phaup. display of military power, It is Firstly, s'Uch measures will only curtently unclear why the Stark escalate 'With a retaliation from was unaccompanied and fUrther the other nation. Secondly, a north than it normally should tariff on some imports will be have been. self-defeating in that many serve Z. Jim and Budd_y . ~ . . at the 1\<to·ries pg. f\' >- .D Iraq's ambassador to the as inputs to U.S. exports. Thirdly, United States has said that an reducing the competing nation's investigation of the· attack is income will simply not increase under way. Ccmtinued on page 2 Photo ofthF.I W~ek: Trees frame a picturesque view of field along the vvest side of the Nott. s 0 ..c:. Q. Crew Teams' Henley Regatta preview pg. 18

CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 Professor Frank Gado, English Department Phaup Presents Inaugural Addres~ Rises in C()nsumption and Value of U.S. do'llar Named Causes of Present Trade Def1c1t max;imize their incomes. It should not be viewed as a result of the irresponsible behavior of the government, as P}laup pointed out. He further noted tMt tbe conswner's individual inD clinations often contradicted the consumer's opmtt:ms when viewing the subject of the in- ternational tradin·g, This becomes apparent with an example of the citiZen who buys imports, such as foreign cars, yet is upset at the record trade deficit. Students Critique CAC.Report, Gen. Ed. Phaup concluded his rather in- depth examination of the trade deficit with a question and an- swer sessiorr-\:which touched on such subjects as the trade deficit's effect on U.S. labor force; Unein:ployment 9 and consumer behavior. ByD.B. GULLIVER Edi1ors' Note: This article is an analysis of problems . f()reseen in the two curriculum pro.posals currently under faculty consideration as noted io faculty and student discussion. The publir.ation of the Curricular Alternative Com- mittee (CAC) report in Con- col\diensis alongside the origi11al General Education (GenEd) proposal provoked discussion of the style of the two proposals but less discussion of content. Stlldents seem more im- pressed with the detail of the CAC; they believe that it is therefore a stronger proposal. That is an improper critierion. The CAC, in .an• effort to reduce the overall number of required · courses, designed its own to specifically fulfill its goals. By having specific courses tailored to its goals, mandatory for all students, the CAC woUld provide the general education in less time but with less freedom. GenEd does not require the · creation of specific courses (at least to the same extent) ; it would provide the gen()ral education through its linkage structure, grouping courses that for the most part currently exist or need some modification. Its effectiveness is in structure and theme, not necessarily in specific co.urse content. At the Student Forum meeting Monday May 18, Cindy Curtis, the representative on the CAC, discussed the proposal with students. Most concern centered on the Mathematics, Science, Technology requirement, the size of the EMW lecture (520 students), grading under the Writing Component, staffing, and the amount of student choice. The Student .For·um, by. next week, should publish their opinions, . but essentially, these are the ideas: that st:affing should be possible . if the College hires enough faculty; that the MST requirement might be too difficult for liberal arts students, but both plans require · some applied science; that the lecture would. be Wlfeasible and ineffective; that teachers could not effectively grade papers for subj.ects they did not Pro.p·osed Lot·. Losse·s. to specifically teach, and that although the CAC plan is c w }d Q t • h Q • \leading students by the hand,\ ampus . ou . u wetg ·atns ~~~~g~a~l~~p~~~~nt~t~1t~nil~ Continued from page 1 to make a difference in the linkages and number of be designated for faculty and problem. requirements. staff parking. However, with the The protest will continue The faculty should consider ope11ing of the College Center and throughout the week and possibly these issues md many more in the reshuffling of staff offices in longer. Students plan to make it a . their decision; again, students Whitaker and Lamont Houses sort of celebration with music should consider them as well, to some of the problem will be and cookouts, with the obvious Wlderstand t})e decision when it shifted to the other side of implications that lawn space is is made. campus, where the Richmond lot important to student life and that and up-campus lots have students should be aware and not available space. take it for granted. They enD \Making a lot (on the murage anyone to come over for proposed site) would the day-or the night. not provide enough parking spots to make a difference.\ U a@Ufi({Joo lfrnlbare is on Tuesdays not Mondays New Loan Payment Planned College costs are high and rising. Student loans are a help to those student who do go to college, but the loans them- . selves can become a .problem to students. After four years at college,. most students leave · with not only a diploma, but also a debt of 7 ,0()0.,.12;00()· dollars . The pressure: to find a good paying johto pay .off that debt is heavy and hard-felt. The Scnenectady Gazette quoted Joanne Tobiessen,. director of career develo.pment, as saying: \I think it does have an impact on students who have large loans to pay off. It could affect their choice of career .. to take the job that pays well, no matter what field it m1ght be in.\ The Reagan administration has come up with a new plan that would ease the payment of guaranteed student loans. SERVICING • REPAIR 0\IERHI\UI..ING \Students would be billed based on a percentage of their salary,\ according to the Scbnectady Gazette, instead of a flat payment fee. However, interest rates would increase the longer the term of payoff. Schenectady Cost- of-Living High The American Chamber Of Commerce Researchers Association conducted· a survey of 246 cities for the fourth quarter of the 1986 Cost of Living Index. The index, which measures intercity differences in costs of consumer goods and services, listed Schenectady as 9.6 percent above the national average for that .quarter. MERCEtJES BENZ • BMW AUOf • V.W. • HONOA NIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE MICHAEL W. CYOVLO 349 ANTHONY STREET \ SOHEHEC'fAJ)Y, NY 12308 The students are- not simply pmtesting; they claim to be willing to help look for an alternative solution. Wasser and Jeff Z>rn '87, cited ideas such as reorganizing and resurfacing the Richmond lot or enlarging cur·rent lots near the ad- ministrative offices instead of near residential areas. Malting a lot on that site, they add, would not prcwide enough .parking spots Student concern over the campus grounds is not unknown. Four years · ago, when preliminary planning for College Center construction was an- nounced, the SEA (Students Environmental Alliance) organiZed protests and a petition with over 500 names against plans to substantially reduce Jackson's Gardens and to place a road more directly through the Gardens. 1'heir efforts were successful then and current students hope for similar results. Tltis Week's Events ALL CAMPUS SHOT May 22, 1987 West Wall~ 3p.m. Be There! This year let's make ita hugh success 2100 PEOPLE Let's shoot for it! CARD COURSES New Procedures . '

CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 Phaup Presents Inaugural Addres~ Rises in Consumption and Value (),f U.S. dollar Named Causes of Present Trade Deftctt Continued from .page 2 . and imposes restrictions, it is the U.S.'s eKport sales in those · limiting the conswners' choices. naUons. \Trade barriers,\ Reasons cited for the cause of conunented Phaup, \act as a the trade deficit by Phaup were kind of consumer censorship. · • attributed to the extremely high Their burden falls on all of us.\ U.S. dollar abroad over the past He backed up his point by · several years. In late 1979, a drawing an analogy between change in the menetary policy international trade and inter· . from exceptional rates of growth regional trade. \Inter-regional : to moderate caused the U.S. trade is clearly seen as . dollar to appreciate significantly. beneficial. Its principle lies in . Moreover, the growing economy that we, the consumers, are able and national income allowed for to obtain goods otherwise not . an increase in the consumption of available to us or otherwise of- imports. Phaup also stated that maKimize their incomes. It should not be viewed as a result of the irresponsible behavior of the gove.rnment, as Phaup pointed out. He further noted that the consumer's individaal in- clinations often contradicted the consumer's op1mons when viewing the subject of the in- ternational trading. This becomes apparent with an example of the citizen wbo buys imports, such as foreign cars, yet is upset at the record trade deficit. Professor Frank Gado, English Depart~nent fered to us at a higher cost. the deficit was a resu1t of what he International trade is based on refers to as a phenomenon in this same principle.\ If the economics. Said he, \The trade government enforces barriers deficit involves the decision of millions of individuals doing tl:!e Students Critique CAC Report, Gene Ed. best they can with the resol:lfces they have.\ In other words, in- dividual consumers are being driven by their desire to Phaup concluded his rather in- depth examination of the trade deficit with a question and an- swer session ·which touched on such subjects as the trade deficit's effect on U.S. labor force, unemployment, and consumer behavior. By D.B. GULLIVER Editors' Note: This article is an analysis of problems foreseen in the two curriculum proposals currently under faculty consideration as noted in faculty and student discussion. The publiration of the Curricular Alternative Com- mittee (CAC) report in Con- cordiensis alongside the original General Education (GenEd) proposal provoked discussion of tlte style of the two proposals but less discussion of content. Students seem more im- pressed with the detail of the CAC; they believe that it is therefore a stronger proposal. That is an improper critierion. The CAC, in an effort to reduce the overall n1.lnlber of required courses, designed its own to specifically fulfill its goals. By having specific courses tailored to its goals, mandatory for all students, the CAC would provide the general education in less time but with less freedom. GenEd does nat require the creation of specific courses (at least to the same extent); it would provide the general education throllgh its linkage structure, grouping courses that for the most part currently exist or need some modification. Its effectiveness is in structure and theme, not necessarily in specific course content. At the Student Forum meeting Monday May 18, Cindy Proposed Lot: Losses to Campus Would Outweigh Gains CDntinued from page 1 be designated for faculty and staff parking. However, with the opemng of the College Center and the reshuffling of staff offices in Whitaker and Lamont Houses some of the problem will be shifted to the other side of campus, where the Richmond lot and up-campus lots have available space. \Making a lot (on the proposed site) would not provide enough parking spots to make a difference.\ The students are not simply protesting; they claim to be willing to help look for an alternative solution. Wasser and Jeff Zorn '87, cited ideas such as reorganizing and resurfacing the Richmond lot or enlarging current lots near the ad- ministrative offices instead of near residential areas. Making a lot on that site, they add, would not provide enough parking spots to make a difference in the problem. The protest will continue throughout the week and possibly longer. Students plan to make it a smt of celebration with music and cookouts, with the obvious implications that lawn space is important to student life and that students should be aware and not take it for granted. They en- courage anyone to come over for the day-or the night. Student collcern over the campus grounds is not unknown. Four years ago, when preliminary planning for College Center construction was an- nounced, the SEA (Students En vironm en tal Alliance) organized protests and a petition with over !iOO names against plans to substantially reduce Jackson's Gardens and to place a road more directly through the Gardens. Their efforts were successful then and current students hope for similar results. Tltis Week's Events Thursday, May 21 12:30 p.m. Hale House Luncheon Co!IO((Uium: \Women and Miracles in Medieval Bavaria.\ 4·:30 p.m. Steinmetz 106. Physics Colloquia: \Skywatchem of Ancient Mexico.\ 7;30 p.m. SS016 Pre> Life Forum 8:00 p.m. Nott MemoriaL Mountebanks Pe.rfonnance: \Waiting for Godot.\ 8:0(} p.m. Hale House. Cabaret Greek Week Festivities. Fr.iday 1 May 22 1:30 p.m. 3:~0 p .. m. West Field. Fit:clmgh Ludlow Day Events. Hum. 213. Philosophy Colloqu.ia:: \The Old Quartet Betweep. Art and Philosophy.\. 8:00 p.m. Nott Memorial. Mountebanks Performance: \Waiting forGodot\ 9:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. U:OO p.m. Hale House. 21 Club Library Pla:r.a. Film. 'Br.ing on the Night. Library Plaza. film: Stop Making Sense. Greek Week Festiviti~. Sa.turday 1 May 23 2:30 p.m. Memorial Chapel Field. K-Man B~tnd. 7, 9, 11 p.m. S$016. Film: Stop Making Sense. . ... 8:00 p.m. Nott Memorial· Mountebanks Performance: \Wa1t111g for Godot\ 9:00 p.m. S$016, Film: Bring on the Night. 9:00 p.m. Hale House. 21 Club. Greek Week Festivities. Sunday, May 24 7 1 9, 11 p.m. SS016 Film: Stop Making S~nse. 9 p.m. SS016 Film: Bring on the Night. Curtis, the representative on the CAC, discussed the propesal with students. Most concern centered on the Mathematics, Science, Technology requirement, the size of the EMW lecture (520 students), grading under the Writing Component, staffing, and the amotmt of student choice. The Student Forum, by neKt week, should publish their opinions, but essentially, these are the ideas: that staffing should l>e possible if the College hires enough faculty; that the MS T requirement might be bo difficult for liberal arts students, but both plans require some applied science; that the lecture would be tmfeasible and ineffective; that teachers could not effectively grade papers for subjects they did not specifically teach, and tbat although the CAC plan is \leading students by the hand,\ GenEd also pulls students through all departments with its linkages and number <Jf requirements. The faculty should consider these issues and many more in their decision; again, students should consider them as well, to understand the decision when it is finall made. New Loan Payment Planned College costs are high and rising. Student loans are a help to those student who do go to college, but the loans them· selves can become a problem to students. After four years at college, most students leave with not only a diploma, but also a debt of 7,000-12;000 dollars. The pressure to find a good paying job to pay off that debt is heavy and hard-felt. The Schenectady Gazette quoted Joanne Tobiessen, director of career development, as saying: \I think it does have an impact on students who have large loans to pay off. It could affect their choice of career .. to take the job that pays well, no matter what field it might be in.\ The Reagan administration has come up with a new plan that would ease the payment of guaranteed student loans. SERVICiNG • REPAIR OVERHAULING \Students would be billed based on a percentage of their salary,\ according to the Schnectady Gazette, instead of a flat payment fee. However, interest rates would increase the longer the term of payoff. Schenectady Cost- of-living High The American Chamber Of Commerce Researchers Association conducted a survey of 246 cities for the fomth quarter of the 1986 Cost of Living Index. The index, which measures intercity differences in costs of consumer goods and services, listed Schenectady as 9.6 percent above the national average for that quarter. IAERCEOES BENZ • BMW AUDI• V.W. • HONDA MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE MICHAEL W. CYOYLO (518)371·2~ (2' HR. TOWING - 374·1067) 349 ANTHONY STREET SCH£NECTADY, NY 12los ,. • ' 1_, • ', ~ .. , : . • { • • •· • • ·: • • • . • • .• ~ ALL CAMPUS SHOT May 22, 1987 West Wall 3p.m. Be There! 2100 PEOPLE :1:~1~ ::t. ::· :: ·: : ::: : : This year let's make ita hugh success Let's shoot for it! ~l~l r:j :· !~~ . .. ~~~~ t •' .. ., ·:;: ;:.:: :: :~·! : : CARD COURSES New Procedures Beginning with this pr€registration, each student will be allowed to pick up the cards for no more than three (3) ... list\ courses. After signing the lists for those courses in which they are interested, students will need to bring their preregistration form (which they pick up at the Registrar's Office in Silliman Hall) with them when they return to the departments to pick up their cards. These .forms will be stamped by the departments when a card is issued. Once the form has been stamped three times. no additional cards will be issued to a student. Students should be aware that should they lose their preregistration form. the replacement form that they wiH be issued will be prestamped and thus not usable for securing course cards. ,, }·

• ! CONCORDIENSJS~ May 21, 1987 Page 3 Stats Lab ·Opens In Social Sciences Lab Offers ;Better Facilities for . Eco., PolL Sci., Psych; History S.t.udents By ELIZABETH Statistics Lab was created. In . addit~onal fee, an~ all that LANDSIEDEL early 1986, ])wight Pbaup, remams to. be done ~~ t~ see a Pr()fessor of :Economics, and . consultant m the S~atl~Ics ~b A Statistics Laboratory has other members of the Union . or. Profes~r Schn~udt m Soctal opened on campus which is • College .Sloan Committee, in- . Sc.I~n.ces 211. . ~m~lly, when designed especiaUy for use by eluded, as part of a second utill.z~gthe Statistics Lab for students and faculty in the phase of the New Liberal Arts . statistiCal analyses of research,. Economics, History, Political • · Pmgram, a request to the . studen~s and f~culty sho~d be Science, and Sociology Alfred. P. Sloan Foundation for aw~rt: of which particul~r departments. The lab is also financial support. In addition, , stat1st1cal methods·. of analys~s suitable for research in areas of Tom Warger, Assistant to the . are. e~pected of research m psychology. The Statistics Lab Vice President for Academic their f1e~d. Soft~are pac~ages is located in Room 001 in the Affairs, requested and obtained are destgned Wit~. P!!l'tlcl;llar Social Science building's additional support from the · methods of ~aly,lls m mmd .. basement and Will be a com- Sloan F·oun(iation to help . Therefore, 1f ~t.udent.s and fortable hoine. purchase a .Digital' Equipment faculty are fam11iar Wlth the A senior fhesis student ta:king advantage of the newly opened There are several reaSons for .. Corporation MICROVAX com- . methods . n.eeded, a software the creation of the Statistics · puter. Total support from the package ~Ill .be chosen mucl! Lab. Students in the soeial . Sloan Foundation is . ap.. m~. ~or~e~e~a~sil~Y!:.·-------:::---- ........ -------::=----::------:::::---- sciences needed· consultants · U · M • . . L. T h Q Wh o were. trained to answer pr()x:i.mately $ 75 ':ooo. n~on • · ... 1nerva . ec· t· ·u· re · · OUC ·es ll statistics lab in school. College and other outside · · · · · · .. • ·questions regarding stati$ical . sou.rces are matcbing the Sloan · · · . · . · software ·packages, such as F d t' t Sh It S h A c 1 d Th t f S D I SPSS-X, TSP, Minitab, and ·. m~~ a;;~~~~: 'Pro~e:!r.~of. . rms · . ontro an . · .. rea 0 • a SAS, which are designed for the Economics, 1 s the Soc1al · social sciences .. However, the Sciences Consultant and Continued from page 1 consultants in Steinmetz's Statistics Lab Supervisor. · the United States and are one Peschel Computer Center's . Student consultants are Jen e:¥runple of our contribution to consulting office are primarily Ash,. Don Hernandez,. Anne the arms race. trained. to answer questions Hoban, Tma Hong, Stephanie Non-adherence to weapons pertaining to · computing Jaryna, Christine Marsching,. treaties also has not been totally languages such as Pascal and and Diane Zanfardino. · the fault of the Soviets. The FORTRAN. Another reason for The Statistics Lab has a · Chemical Weapons Treaty of 1977 creating the Stati$ics Lab was MICROVAX II; named STAT, · was terminated by the U.S. as to provide social science which has nine megabytes of was the Bilateral Anti-satellite fountain of youth-it is an ap- pealing wish.\ The Soviet stance has been that a nation cannot reduce its number of weapons when the other side is developing an ABM .system. However, as Weiler quoted John Abrams as saying, \tllere is no way a population protection can be effective without a limitation in the number of offensive weapons.\ The development of a star Wars system triggers the very reaction which makes the system ineffective. Leaving these thOughts to dance around in the minds of the audience, Weiler again reiterated that arms contml is not a spectator sport. \We will help to decide the future, if their is to be a future, of future generations.\ · students and faculty with a memory and three-hundred talks in 1978. When the Soviets facility which has an identity megabytes of disk storage. The put into practice a unilateral and location of its own. In the . applications software available moratorium on anti-satellite social sciences, data gathered on STAT are TSP and Minitab. testing, we responded by testing from surveys and historical There are thirteen a more advanced version of an records are used to test social microcomputers, twelve Pro anti-satellite weapon. In addition, science theories and simulate 32~'s and one Zenith IBM-PC Reagan has been wrong in saying the impact of public policies. compatible. The microcom- that the Soviets are undergoing Computers are needed to puters may be used like any their biggest military buildup. facilitate the process of analysis regular computer as terminals . According to Mr .. Weiler, NATO of enormous quantities of data. connected to the MICROVAX has outspent the Warsaw Pact in The statistical software and as terminals connected to · the last decade while the Soviets packages which tun . on the the v AX cluster. Presently, the have maintained a steady 2 computers include TSP, SPSS- PRO 325's use as a computer is percent increase each year. ons.~,i,M~¥·~., ·fb····, .. the Union College Chapter of X, SAS, Minitab, and BMDP. limited because there is not S.D.I. would be our most recent Research methods courses mu:ch software available for the contribution to the arms race. which use computers include: Pro 325. However, Professor . Weiler echoed Robert Bowman's Economics 20; Political Science S~hmidt anticipates the arrival assertion that Star Wars would 21,Sociology 60, Psychology 144, of new microcomputers with only be effective in conjunction along with Senior Thesis better software support in the with a first strike. Weiler also students. other social science future. maintains that the \system courses using computers in- Neither special permission places the initiation of war in dude Economics 29, 42; 145, 146, nor a specific major are hands of computers.\ Because 148; History 40; Political required in order to utilize the the activation of the .system Science 20, 64, 159; and Statistics Lab. However, would occur in the 2-4 minutes Sociology 62. The Statistics Lab students must Sign up for a v AX during boost phase, the reaction will enable Union's social account through the Office of to a Soviet missile launch would science students to be more . Computer Services in Peschel have to be immediate, leaving directly involved in research · Center. The account costs $20 \no time for human in- and analysis. pel'\ year. If a student already tervention.\ At the request of departments has a v AX account, there is no Weiler says that the idea of a in the social sciences, the protective umbrella is \like the The Statistics Lab is Open: Mondays- Thursdays: 2:30-4:30 P.M. and 7:00-11:00 P.M. Fridays: 10:30 A.M.-12:30 P.M. Sundays: 7:00 P.Mo-11:00 P.M. Student consultants will be available during these hours to answer questions regarding TSP, SPSS/X, Minitab, ilMDP, • Sibyl/Runner~ how to log on, anf the EDT editor. Are You Interested in &0®©~r.r©tli10® !NJ[JJ]~U& ~ Waiting For Godot in the Nott May 19-23 8:00p.m. ....... lei'YatloM Clift 6151 · · ·. · . · annual election meeting. cfl-\fifel~'·'il'<\l.h¥. were elected to int9 .the Society on synthesize~s, digital drum n1achines, ~tc. · or do you JUSt want to have fun makmg your own music? Good. Come to the · meeting of the Electronic Music Club on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in Social Sclence 014. Let's make ·music -together! Attention Fraternities and Sororities: . The. new sociology course Constitutional Law and·. So~iety in Brazil and the U.S. Sociotogy ~ 60 will be held from ·2:40 .. 4:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays . (gel time #6) . Not during gei time #4 (12:40 on Tuesdays and . Thursdays) The BrazUian Fulbrigh.f Fellow~ Dr. Ester Kosowski wDI teach this cc.urse. Greek Week '87 is May 20-23 Wed., 'fhur. Sports Competitions 12·6 p.m. Fri. Saturday Sports Finals 12·3 p.m. at West, Richmond, Library Fields Memorial Chapel Field •Hot Dog Eating Contest for Leukemia Charity 2 p.m. •Keg Run 2:45 p.m. •K-Man Band 3:30·6:30 p.m. •Awards, including GREEK WEEK ClJP 5:30 p.m. •Barbeques 5:30 p.m. • All Union students are invited to watch competitions and barbeque with the K-Man Band •Greek Week T-shirts are on sale for $7.00 •Any questions can be answered by Tim Matthews 370-4956

I ( ,. j• ,. :·; CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 Page 3 Stats Lab Opens In Social Sciences Lab Offers Better Facilities for Eco., Poll. Sci., Psych, History Students Statistics Lab was created. In additional fee, and all that By ELIZABETH LANDSIEDEL A Statistics Laboratory has opened on campus which is designed especia1ly for use by students and faculty in the Economics, History, PoHtical Science, and Socie,logy departments. The lab is also suitable for research in areas of psychology. The Statistics Lab is located in Room 001 in the Social Science building's basement and will be a com- fortable home. early 1986, Dwi:ght Phaup, remains t@ be done is to see a Professor of Economics, and consultant in the Statistics Lab other members of the Union · or Prefessor Schmidt in Social · Sciences 211. Finally, when · College Sloan Committee, m- utilizing the Statistics Lab for ' eluded, as part of a second statistical analyses of research, phase of the New Liberal Arts · students and faculty should be Program, a request to the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation for aware of which particular . . financial support. In addition, . statistical methods of analysis Tom Warger' Assistant to the are expected of research in Vice President for Academic their field. Software packages Affairs, requested and obtained are designed with particular additional support from the . methods of analy.)is in mind. Sloan Foundation to help Therefore, if students and There are several reasons for the creation of the Statistics Lab. Students in the social sciences needed consultants who were trained to answer questions regarding statistical software packages, such as SPSS-X, TSP, Minitab, and SAS, which are designed for the social sciences. However, the consultants in Steinmetz's Peschel Computer Center's consulting office are primarily trained to answer questions pertaining to computing languages such as Pascal and FORTRAN. Another reason for creating the Statistics Lab was to provide social science students and faculty with a facility which has an identity and location of its own. In the social sciences, data gathered from surveys and historical records are used to test social science theories and simulate the impact of public policies. Computers are needed to facilitate the process of analysis of enormous quantities of data. The statistical software packages which run on the computers include TSP, SPSS- X, SAS, Minitab, and BMDP. Research methods courses which use computers include: P urchase a Digital Equipment faculty are familiar with the methods needed, a software A senior thesis student taking advantage of the newly opened Corporation MICROVAX com- package will be chosen much I b · h I puter. Total support from the statistics a tn sc oo. Sfuu Fo~d~ioo is a~ ~m!·O!r!e~e!~!il~Y~·------~-------~=---~---~~---- proximately $75,000. Union M. a Lecture Touches O·tl College and other outside · . 1nerv · · · . sources are matching the Sloan ~~;,dal~~c1~~=t·tr~~~~~~c~f Arms Control and Threat of S.DGI Economics, is the Social Sciences Consultant and Statistics Lab Supervisor. student consultants are Jen Ash, Don Hernandez, Anne Hoban, Tina Hong, Stephanie Jaryna, Christine Marsching, Economics 20, Political Science 2l,Sociology 60, Psychelogy 144, along with Senior Thesis students. Other social science courses using computers in- clude Economics 29, 42, 145, 145, 148; History 40; Political Science 20, 64, 159; and Sociology 62. The Statistics Lab will enable Union's social science students to be more directly involved in research and analysis. At the request of departments in the social sciences, the and Diane Zanfardino. The Statistics Lab has a MICROVAX II, named STAT, which has nine megabytes of memory and three-hundred megabytes of disk storage. The applications software available on STAT are TSP and Minitab. There are thirteen microcomputers, twelve Pro 325's and one Zenith IBM-PC compatible. The microcom- puters may be used like any regular computer as terminals connected to the MICROV AX and as terminals connected to the VAX cluster. Presently, the PRO 325's use as a computer is limited because there is not much software available for the Pro 325. However, Professor Schmidt anticipates the arrival of new microcomputers with better software support in the future. Neither special permission nor a specific major are required in order to utilize the Statistics Lab. However, students must s1gn up for a VAX accotmt through the Office of Computer Services in Peschel Center. The account costs $20 per year. If a student already has a VAX accOlmt, there is no The Statistics Lab is Open: Mondays- Thursdays: 2:30-4:30 P.M. and 7:00-11:00 P.M. Fridays: I 0:30 A.M.-12:30 P.M. Sundays: 7:00 P.M.-11 :00 P.M. Student consultants will be available during these hours to answer questions regarding TSP, SPSS/X, Minitab, BMDP, Sibyl/Runner, how to log on, anf the EDT editor. Are You Interested in ~O®&afl®@/1& !flJJw@U& fl synthesizers, digital drum machines, etc. or do you just want to have fun making your own music? Good. Come to the meeting of the Electronic Music Club on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in Social Science 014. Let's make music together! The new sociology course Constitutional Law and Society in Brazil and the U.S. Sociology 160 will be held frotn 2:40 .. 4:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays (gel time #6) Not during gel time #4 (12:40 on Tuesdays and Thursdays) The Brazilian Fulbright Fellow, Dr. Ester Kosowski wDI teach this course. Continued from page 1 the United States and are one example of our contribution to the arms race. Non-adherence to weapons treaties also has not been totally the fault of the Soviets. The Chemical Weapons Treaty of 1977 was terminated by the U.S. as was the Bilateral Anti-satellite talks in 1978. When the Soviets put into practice a unilateral moratorium on anti-satellite testing, we responded by testing a more advanced version of an anti-satellite weapon. In addition, Reagan bas been wrong in saying that the Soviets are undergoing their biggest military buildup. According to Mr. Weiler, NATO has outspent the Warsaw Pact in the last decade while the Soviets have maintained a steady 2 percent increase each year. S.D.I. would be our most recent contribution to the arms race. Weiler echoed Robert Bowman's assertion that Star Wars would only be effective in conjunction with a first stri'k:e. Weiler also maintains that the ''system places the initiation of war in hands of computers.\ Because the activation of the system would occur in the 2-4 minutes during boost phase, the reaction to a Soviet missile launch would have to be immediate, leaving ''no time for human in- tervention.\ Weiler says that the idea of a protective umbrella is \like the Waiting For Godot in the Nott May 19-23 8:00 p.m. fer I'CIOWY8floM edJ 61Sl fountain of youth-it is an ap- pealing wish.\ The Soviet stance :has been that a nation cannot reduce its number of weapons when the other side is developing .an ABM system. However, as WEiler quoted John Abrams as .saying, \there is no way a :population protectiQn can be .effective without a limitation in \the number of offensive weapons.\ The development of a Star Wars system triggers the very reaction which makes the system ineffective. Leaving these thoughts to dance around in the minds of the audience, Weiler again reiterated that arms control is not a spectator sport. \We will help to decide the future, if their is to be a future, of future generations.'· Phi Beta Kappa Election Results On Monday, May 4, the Union College Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa held its annual election meeting. Twenty-eight seniors and four juniors were elected to membership. They will be initiated into the Society on Monday, May 25. The new members are: 1987 Phi Beta K.appa Election Class of 1987 Madoff, Rhonda Baer, Wendy Perkins, Paige Barbu, Richard Resnick, Jeffrey Baringer, Kathryn Rosman, Adam Barofsky, Jonathan Schop, Paul Boyce, Paul Shah, Adriene Cohen, Eric J. Sharp, Robert Curtis, Cynthia L. Stieglitz, Stacy E. Eveleth) Edward Swan, Thomas Frank, Stephen · Tamarkin, Dawn Gunaratnam, Naresh Tichnor, Kerrie · Hom, Ellen Wu, Christopher Horowitz, Alyssa Juniors Johnson, Donald Iaia, Alberto Klein, Jay Klapper~ Allan Knoll, Susan Silvers, Kimberly Lipsky, Stephen Szydlik, Stephen Members of the Class of 1987 elected last year Fredericks, Betsy Morre, Charles Lewis, David . Pond, Barbara Atte1ltion Fraternities and Sororities: Greek Week '87 is May 20-23 WedFrJhur. Sports Competitlon:S 12·6 p.m. Saturday Sports Finals 12·3 p.m. at West, Richmond. Ubrary Fields Memorial Chapel Field •Hot Dog Eating ContBst for Leukemia Charity 2 p.m. •Keg Run 2:45 p.m. •K·Man Band 3:3~·5:30 p.m. •Awards, including GREEK WEEK CUP 5:30 p.m. •Barbeques 5:30 p.m. • All Union students are invited to watch competitions and barbeque with the K-Man Band ·Greek Week T-shirts are on sale for $7.00 •Any questions can be answered by Tim Matthews 370-4956

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 May 22, 1 '987 Architect. o·f Union College Honors Joseph Jaques Ramee Westward Expansion! The ·H:i·story of Joseph Jacques Ramee and his A.rchitecture By JIM O'LOUGHLIN I11 January of 1813, Union College decided to move to its third horne in Schenectady. Witll this move, Dr. Eliphal~t Nott brought the French ar- chitect Joseph Jacques Ramee to tile college grounds to design the 11ew campus. This was the beginning of the Union CollegE) campus as we know it today. . Ramee was born in 1764 iii Charlemont in the Ardenne.s district of France. He acquired a reputation in Europe as a11 arcllitect with such designs a.s the Altar of the Civic Celbratioll of the Federation in Paris. Hoe was well known ad a landscap-e architect and was responsibl.e for many parks and gardens ()f Namburg. Ramee was brought to thoe United States in 1312 by one ()f his wealthy patrons. David Parish. a prominent social and financial figure in America was in !leed of an architect for bts . vast land investments. Parisll enli..s1ied Ramee's talents attd brotlght him to the Unitedtates. He was also responsible. f()r ihtrooduce Ramee and Nott. because Ramee needed naoney and Nott needed an architect. Nott commissioned Ramee to design the buildings and . 'pleasure grounds'; for his work he would be paid $1500. The plan was very different from any previous dollege. Dr. Nott wanted to give the feeling that the campus was open to all who wished to enter. Many of the other colleges had enclosed campuses which kept people out. The shape of the campus was designed as a horseshoe facing west to signify ex- . pansion. After Ramee finished his work in the United States, he returned to Europe. Very little is known about his later career. He worked in Belgium and Germany, and published his book, Pares et Jardins, in Paris. He died in Beaurains at the age of 78. ~~1J 8 1]]QJ[)[b f!UJdla®w ®cn)J T-Shirt on sale at the Flea . , Market for $5. Warm Up Band . lf!Jara @fl!Ju®!f . ®0@® llH;::::g:;t;,~~0Ft!!:lJt::ts~r:rz:::::::t:~r::':'::~:t, at the Nott 2 :00 MEAL CARD HOLDERS to eat free at the barbeque Y'i>U must bring your Meal Card and 10. If you're not on the meal plan Please N·ott North Side at 3:15 SCAVENGE HUNT ~· Li --~~-- Where can go have your pie and get It In 0 00 the face 1 ~LA~~ Nott 4:00 It's Nott History ByW.T.SMYTHE Ever since last year's debacle, Joy Runion has refused, to interview me, so rm off on my own. Rachel and Jim try to give you \the truth\ in other parts of the paper, but here is how it really happened. Joseph-Jacques Ramee never really existed, but was merely a figment of FitzHugh's fertile imagination. When Fitzijugh arrived at Union, there wete very few buildings: -the President's house, the Adi1linistration Building,. a stunning student center in Carnegie, and a gym featuring an eight-lane swimming pool . Students were housed in tents ·borrowed from KA and classes took place in professors' homes. My sybaritic uncle, Eustas Smythe, built Srriythe House t9 house himSelf, FitzHugh, and other friends with similar tastes. One night, FitzHpgh Outdoor AU Campus BRING ON THE NIGHT AND TRUE STORIES Library Plaza 9:00 decided that we needed an improved campus, and he created a pipedream of a plan called the Ramee campus. Unfortunately, the plan was blll'I1.ed in the same fire that almost destroyed the Ahna Mater. In the course of the fire, FitzHugh's steel bong rolled down the steps of Smythe House, continued along to the center of campus, and then exploded, formin,g a sixteen- . sided steel artnature·. At this point, things stopped. In 1977, · President Bonner, searching for a site for a hockey program, completed con- struction of the Nott Memarial. Eventually, measurements convinced him that the Nott was not big enough for a Divi:Sion I hockey program, so things stopped again. In the .spring o.f 19'79, President and .Mrs_. Morris. stepped onto campus, irt the middle of the fir~t .FitzH:tJgh Ludlow Day, as a matter of fact (this much is true). They were nothappyvwith our non-campus. In 1982, Eniid said: ''John, let's build a c11mpus.\ John, who IL_-tmtil then had-resisted the usual ~presidentiail edifice complex, replied: ''Smashing , idea, Enid.\ So all the tents came down and four years of' con- struction e!lsued. Finally, North and South were built. Enid wondered.: \But how can South be the oldest all-male dorm in the country itlt was ivst bQllt?\ John replied: \But Enid, there is no other·an-male dorm in the coWltry.'' .And so we created ·history. The best :part of the Ramee- . FitzHugh.Ludlowdesign for the . campus is a transparent shield that once a year spreads across the campos, from North to South, from KA to:OChi. That's why it never rains on FitzHugh Ludlow Da:y. More ne::x:t year. Enjoy· the Day •. Schedule for FHL Day Library Nott West-· Plaza North SiC::Je Beach 10 :30 Flea Market & elections 11:30 12:30 1:30 2:00 2:3D 3:00 3:15 3,;30 4:00 4:30 5!00 6:00 7:00 8:00 9!00 Water Balloons Jello Slide Pie in the Face Outdoor Movies \Bring on the Night\ and \True Stories\ All-Campus Photo Warm-up Band Barbeque. BLOTTO Scavenger Hunt In Honor of Fitzllflgh . Please No open Contrtiner1 or Kegs at 11ny of the events. ,, ; ,. . ,. 1· (' '' \' '! . :! 'j ,; ; .. .. ,\ ... ..

I .I,' ,, I I' _:: ., •' ,\ J ~. ... ,. ., ' CONCORDlENSIS, May 21, 1987 Page 5 .FEATURES 505 • • • Talk of. the Town Concordy recently asked: \What was the worst sum\tner job you. ever had?\ Marine Studies Photos and Interviews by Rebecca Smitlt By GAIL BLUMENFELD . H you were to ask the twelve students on the Marine Studies Pr(}gram what mopeds, field notebooks, snorkels,. pink beaches, road rash, rum switzels and wet suits have in common, their immediate ailswet would be Bermuda. After spending two and a half weeks on these beautiful islands all of us would gladly trade in our snowbeots and gloves for a moped helmet and a bottle of suntan oil. After all, doesn't everyone wish that they could go to school in Bermuda? The Marin~ Studies Term Abroad js not your typic:;al term nor is it abroad. This program is divided into four parts, each in a different climate and con• centrating on a different aspect of Marine Culture. After leaving Bermuda, we flew to .Beaufort, North Carolina where we are now.From North Carolina, we will board a 10 ft. Schooner for two and a half weeks' cruise and will then conclude the term by spending two weeks on an island in Maine. Our present location, Beaufort, N.C. is not a thriving metropolis. in fact, it is barely a town. We have become used to the Southern Twang present in everyone's speech, and have resigned ourselves to the fact that there is no night-life to be found here. But Beaufort has some good points as well. At least three days a Week we take a boat to nearby deserted island and have class on the beach. We have b~ome experts in identifying coastal birds and shells which have washed up on the shore~ Our assignments have included drawing a profile of Shackelford Island and collecting as many varieties ·of leaves and sllells- as possible. Although t:here is a definite absence of JJightlife here,, we· have mana~ed. to have our own fun. Nightly, wlleybaH games on the bea.cll involve everyone and we have hrd many parties. · We were vramed before the term, Marme Life is casual and we are get:titJg used to th~ in· formal .atmo~phere. Of course, nothirig C()uld ever compare to the life style iJl Berm.uda. Upon our arr-ival in Berm11da, we knew that we were. going to have a wil,d time. We lived at the Bermuda 'ELological St.ation in St. Ge()f.g~s but had access to the rest oft:beisland at any time on our moptJds. Now that we are off the islartd, Bermuda drivers can breathe ~· sigh of relief til at the Unio11 stu(lents are off of the roads. The :!lp~,ed limit of 20 mph did not aptply to our mo1Jeds, and we dr<Jve around passing cars and 2:oommg thr()ugh the winding narrmv streets. Also, speaking ~>f accidents, n~> one was hurt ill U1e great four cycle Union cras:h-up. Althougll mme :members of our group JCbose to. drive a half hour to th~ dty of Hamilt<Jn for College, CJr i1i that High School weeks, the r~st. of us remained in St. Ge~>rg~ and spent our time at tlle Fub on the Square. Hanging o1it at the Pub with the natives and servicemen from the neuby naval base was an experl-e[lee never to be forgotten. 'riley were ail so friendly,· a.nd were always · willing to let ~ertain members of the grQLI.p' gEt up and sing on the stage or .!latJce on the bar. The baiten!lct, Tommy, made ~azing llennuda Triangles for us regar()]ess of who paid for the drinks. 'Po be sure, many of the citizenS·CJf St. Georges now believe that Union College is the wildest school in the country. Did [ forget to mention the school work done in Bermuda? Of course we did work. We have an ortg()ing term project;. that involves interviewing fisher- men and our faces became familiar sights hanging out on the doc:ks. We also did a lot of . work on the coral reefs of the island and studied the for- mations underwater by means of masks. fins, and snorkel. The ()ther major part of our studies in Bermuda involved the examination of the water, electrica, and sewage systems of the island. We spent a lot of time visiting different plants amlsaw a side of Bermuda that the ave:r.age tourists never see. Thus far, this trip has been absolutely amazing. We are doing a lot of work in an in- formal setting, and must adapt oniselves to different en- vironments. In order for a tenn like thiB to be successful, you must have an enthusiastic group wllere everyone gets along. Since we have started our term, we have not only gained respect for one another, but we llave .gained a respect for the environment surrounding us. Lara Ancona '90 \Working at Arby's because I wound up with second degree burns on the left side of my body.\ Kellee Barnad '90: \The summer my mother punished me and I had to babysit my brother.\ \ ' William J. BaUo u I '87: \I've never work:ed a day in my life!\ Mark Webster '~8: \Being a Freihoffer bread delivery man.\ Conts to tits . The Devil-Dog7 Separation Maneuver llelta ctl:bi Chanlf~ <Jte TI~e Cabanef By CYNTHIA PANTAZIS and JEFFREY AUERBACH As we walked do:wn the aisles of Price Chopper, we were overwhelmed by · the vast display of products on the Hostess Tree. We all know Hostess manufactures those fine snack delicacies we en~ joyed in our youth. And this fine family of foods lives on. But how does one know which member of the Hostess family best suits his personal needs? In order to determine this, we found it neces::;ary to classify junk food· ·(chocolate) snacks into two basic categories: shape and manner of consumption. All snack foods come in two shapes: round like a hockey puc'k:, and cylindrical. · Ding Dongs, Ring Dings, and Big Wheels qualify as the former, While Ho Ho's Yodels, Little Debbie Swiss Roles represent the latter. In our opinion, neatness and convenience counts, therefore, we recom- mend the cylindrical Shaped GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE Every FRIDAY 12:30 • 1 t30 p.m. HALE HOUSE variety. 'rhe .chvcolate-pastry adhesion fact()r is much hi~her. Throug'h yEars ()f eXJ)eriEnee, one aeq11ires a certain technique ·c:if .ccnsumption. You can peel tlu ellocolate icing off and contiiltLE to separate the cake layer nom the cream layer. Yodelshave proven most satisfactory for this method since the:y a:re most condnci:ve to pastry l!l!l113velling. An~ther technique, . the Devil-Dog- Separati()n-rlt1aneuver enables one to rern(J:ve the top cake layer fronn tlle body of the pastry,. subsequently leaving two pieces,.·()ne with cream and one withollt. Enough s!iid. In conclasioll~ one must have a keen senSE of pre-processed pastry awa-eness. BecatlSe if you can saytt; you've gotit. Garnet Minstrelles Auditions Are TODAY May 21st 8:15-9:30 pm i·n the Arts Building For more into - call Sh<tron x4156 or Jennifer x416l Thursday, May 28 at\9:00 in the Old Chapel Proceeds to benefit the Schenectady Boy's Club $5.00 for Tie-Dyed Cabaret T -Shirt and show. Refreshments will be served Waiting for Godot In the Nott This Week Only M9Y 19- 23 Tickets $1.00 You've Never Seen Us Like This!

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 FEATURES What About Drug Testing? Greek Week'87 ByCATHYMARKES There's a new T-shict on campus this spring-yes, this week (Wednesday through Saturday) is GREEK WEEK '87. The shirts, sold at $7 apiece, can be the new addition to your Union t-shirt collection. This year, Greek Week is an all-out attempt to g-et Union's fraternities and sororities in- volved in the various activities ·of May 20-23. Sponsored by the IFC and Panhellenic Council, there are plenty of events in which Greek houses may participate to make Greek Week ,.87 a true success. will run to a house, where one will go inside and drink a beer or a .shot (whatever the house provides), after which another team member will take the drinker's place and so on to the finish line. Kegs will be awarded to the winners of this competition. The K-Man Band will play from 3:30-6:30 p.m. behind Memorial Chapel, and a bar- 1 becue will begin at 5:30 and last until dark. Also at 5:30, the trophies for winn.ers of any of the week's events will be presented, as well as the Greek Week Cup. This will probably be quitethe all-Greek gathering on Saturday, so make· sure to at- tend. (Actually, non-Greeks are welcome as well.) Best of luck to those teams participating and if you're a Greek: well, this is your week, GREEK WEEK '87. Be proud (i.e., wear your letters and we'll see you on Saturday). By ... KRlSTINE ROBINSON Last WedneSday night I had • n<lthing bette1• to do so I decided • topo()inon the Sigma Phi drug · talk. WeU, there weren't any • free samples or anything but. it ' turned out okay anyway. In fact, it was really pretty in- teresting. Thetwo speakers. who carne were very informative, i and they really got the. audience ' intrigued and mvolved. The , first speaker was Pa~ Magaril ! fr()m thE New York Chamber of . Coiillnerce and Industry. He is : an advocate of drug testing, explaining his position with the i following points. • t:The National Drug Abuse , Council has claimeq that drug liSe is the largest problem faced ' by illdllstry. +Upon .entering a job, 24 of : W()rkers have used drugs, 44 , percent have used drugs within . the year., and 10 .. 2:i· percent will . 11se tl:lem on the job. ' +Drllg users come in late three · times more ·(}ften miss work 2¥2 i to 3 times as .often; use more · medical benefits, ·have less ·• capacityt and are moreli~ely to : cause an accident and f1le for Worhn.en's Compensation. +Last year, drugs caused an estimated $60 billion injury to businESS. +Co11cern has been growing in tbetransportation industry with two J'ecent train accidents eaused by conductors under the .influence of drugs, and rumors of pilots who enjoy indulging. in \a couple of lines\ before flights. . +Wall Street is becoming. a further site of disaster., with mistakes costing cLients major dollars, and insider ·In- formation-drug exchanges · llig):J.ly Sllspected. +Busiil.esses feel they have the . right and the duty to test prospective as well as cw-rent employ-ees. +Our nation is based on eapital:.ism, and guarantees businesses the right to choose tbe way they wish their em- Each afternoon, softball games and ultimate fr-isbee matches will take place on Library, West and Riclunond Fields. Also during this time, Sigma Phi and Delta Phi will host volleyball games. Tug of War matches will take place on Friday afternoon at the flagpole. Winning teams will progress through a series. of elimination rounds, with the finals taking place on Satur-day afternoon. Saturday is definitely the focal point of the week, and sbould prove to be a great day of sun and fun for all those in- volved. At 2 pm, there is a hot dog eating contest which will be held behind Memorial Chapel. This is a competition in which each fraternity team will obtain at least l50 in sponsors, to benefit the Leukemia Society of America. Each team of .four men will race to eat fifty hot dogs, so this should be an en- tertaining event, to say the least. \Higher\ Education At Union Following the Hot Dog Eating Contest, the Keg Run will begin at 2:45 p.m., also behind Memorial Chapel. The course for this event includes stops at thirteen of Union's fraternities and sororities scattered around the perimeter of campus. Each fraternity will have an empty keg (preferably equipped with handles) and two people at a time will carry it. A team ()f two :By DANIELLE.POWELL While the majority of Americans during the mid·l800s were preparing for the Civil War, a Union College student was cultivating the seeds for the \grasslands\ of the 1960s. FitZhugh Ludlow (class of 1856), the son of a prominent abolitionist minister, was heavily schooled in Latin and Greek classical studies. He was noted as a ''highly imaginative and intelligent student with a decided taste for · philosophica1 speculation.\ In 1855, while browsing through one of the loc~l apothecary shops 111 Schenectady, Ludlow chanced upon a vial of Cannabis indica, The Laundry Room 2329 Uan IJrank:en Rue., Schenectady OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 7 A.M.-9 P.M. MON.~FRI. 8 A.M.-8 P.M. SAT. & SUN. PHONE 382-8566 • • Featuring SPEED QUEEN washers & dryers For Your Convenience... PICK .. UP S'ERVICE Available for Wasti Dry & Fold the resin of which is called '\hasi1ish.\ Recalling some earlier literature which discussed psychic phenomena in ass()ciation with the drug's use, L11dlow ingested a 10-grain oill and waited for its effects to take place. When nothing oc- curred~ he gradually increased his dosage to 30 gr~s and saddenly found · himself '~sto11ed. ~· He tben upped the dDse to 50 grains and proceeded· to \freak <Jut.\ This is how Sloman; in his text Reefer Madoess, describes Ludlow's experience. Furthermore, the allth!Jr credits Fitzhugh with being ''America's first (do c11mented) . recreational cannabis user.\ Altbo11gh .recorded as having taken ~'America's first bad trip,\ Ludlow did not suffer deleteiious effects from his experience; After graduation from lJnion College, with a degree in the Classics and succes~ful completion ofthe law bar, Fttzhugh Ludlow went on to l:lecornE a widely published jDumalist and critic of the time, as well as friend and .early sllpP<Jrter of Mark Twain. The results of his experimentation are discllSsed in his book, The Haslleesh Eater, published by Hal'J)er and Brothers in 1857. ployees to behaveiwithin the limits of discriminaUon. _ Businesses may be held legally negligent for employing drug users who cause harm to others. Mr. Magatil then ex~;>lained that the legislation he is currently attemptiJig to prevent would limit employer's <:ibility to control their businesses. One of the recently proposed bills would call for the need of em- ployers to.have probably cause in order to test a current em- ployee for the presence .of drugs. He claimed this would be a negative action, as probably cause would come too late to prevent an accident {\the train would have already crashed''),. Mr. Magaril concluded by stating that employers are not the \bad guy,\ thatthey want to keep workers under their employment, and. often will go to great lengths to help an addicted employee. \Businesses are doing (drug testing) properly, and for the right reasons.\ _ The second speaker presented another side to the drug testing issue. Dr. August Lumia; professor of psychology at Skidmore College~ i~ familiar with the biomedical techniques involved in drug testing, He explained tbat in oEder for these tests to be accurate, they must be performed by highly trained professionals. Business cannot afford to be as meticulous as accuracy requires. Dr. Lumia provided the foil() wing fa~s: +Every culture ever stud1ed has used drugs. The distinction between the legality or illegality of these is strictly arbitrary. There is no good or . bad drug. They all work in the same way: they make us feel good; provide a chemically induced high or buzz. . + 1 in 4 Americans use vali urn, a prescription drag. +The most commonly used drugs are alcohol, tobacco, and caffeine. +Prescription drugs are more likely to affect performance than ()ccasional recreational drug use during non-wotk hours. · +Accuracy requires that a sample be tested 6 or 7 times to prevent \outlyer. numbers'' or \false positives\ from per- manently soiling one's record. +No drug test can tell if one is impaired. They can only detect the presence of drugs. +Marijuana stays in the bloedstream for a minimum of 30 days. +Cocaine often does not register only 8 hours after use. +One can be comatose from PCP and not show on the tests. +There is ·a 40 percent chance that if you were to apply to a company and be given a drug test that it would be inaccurate. Dr. L'Uifiia is against \the indiscriminate use .of this seemingly simplistic solUtion to the problem.\ He claims that random drug testing will not work Wlless itis monitored as in · the army. The three qualities which must be upheld are frequency, randomness, and close observation. Good testing costs between85 and lO!ldollars ·per drug. Industry is simply not going to spendthat much money on mere tests. Dr. Lumia en- courages the legiSlation of strict guidelines for the laboratories which process drug test sam- ples. It is a waste of money and a risk to innocent people's records to do only a \half-job.\ These opening statements were followed by rebuttals by both speakers, and then by a sometimes heated question and answer period. The arbitration of morality versus true drug influence (i.e.: legal vs illegal) was discussed at length, as well as the apparent attention to athletes and blue collar workers with respect to professi()ns such as doctors and lawyers. So the evening . was t·eally qllite successful. I recovered from my disappointment that only juice and coffee were served to realize I'd actually learned some very useful in- formation. PICK UP FORMS AT THE EQUIPME,..T CAGE ALUMNI il)'M ? 1 <1<. \IP YQ~~t·S~ ~· ~ ~L.. m: <:oNTA<T T\'E L~I)IC.flMa.\ ~~~TY /1\f_ lf38 3!>83 \

CONCORDIENSJS, May 21, 1987 Page 7 Phlosoplty Forum ••• Corruption is Contagious ByJlMMANLY There are times in everyone's life where an attitude of despair can .become overwhelming. Just as one gets increasingly wet in the rain Ulltil they finally give in and trudge home soaking, one can feel more and more indifferent and despon- dent as things slowly fall to pieces around him. This con- dition,. where nothing seems worth trying for, is obviously dangerous, but atthe same time remarkable difficult to stop, since one's awareness is heightened to anything that can be interpreted as negative~ This self..;fulfilling prophecy of cynicism or indifference forces an attitude that can kill any movements for improvement. In tbis way, no news is cer- tainly bad news, because only truly gpod news will remove the . bitterness of the . existing situation, while the status quo onlyletsthecynicism fester. At the same time, scandals Uke insider trading, the Iran-Contra affair,. and Gary Hart's womanizing succeed in keeping a steady perception of corruption in society .. When our · President \takes liberties with the· truth,\ or successful businessmen get by on illegal activity, the citizen is not left ~naware. By digestjng this mformation he/she becomes increasingly callous. This at- titude can be seen clearly in the treatment of Gary Hart whose guilt was determined well before he could defend his actions. Scandals are con- tagious, and they do nothing but corrode the basic structure of society. In time, little to nothing is left sacred. Fatal diseases, like AIDS, implicate scandalous lifestyles, causing those who suffer to feel like criminals, avoiding disclosure until death. The vicious cycle leaves nothing untouched, and is bolstered by a society that tends to receive information from one or two similar sources. Thus the media, in whatever form, re- enforces public pei:ception by giving it exactly what it is cynically expecting to hear. From politicians who sleep · T -SHIRT DESIG ·CONTEST . · Sponsored by the Homecoming '87 Corrrnittee Creative Students, Faculty and Staff are welcome to submit their ideas or drawings to Kerry or Sharon at the Alumni Office by May 29. Your design may have up to four colors. A CASH prize will be awarded to the winner. , Thts yelll''' thtmt h: .,UNION A BIGGER and . 'ER around, to celebrities that die from AIDS, the press now relies on scandal to stay vital. Most recently, when a U.S. Navy boat · was shot at, the citizens and press ilnmediately look not to the culprits, but to the captain andbis.inability to act. Man can be a dangerous and vindictive animalifneed by, andcertainly if encouraged by his peers. Yet as bad as cynicism can be, it has happened before, and it has been cured. Unfor- tunately, the cure can be as bad as the disease. This is to say that President Reagan's jingoistic appeals to American patriotism did little t() improve Atnerican citizenry from the causti<! attitude it held after Viet Nam and Watergate. The true answer is a in a realization CJf reality, without searching for imrne!liate and easy con- d usions. This requires a philosophy of life that reco~izes the enormity of our ~()n<lit1on, and the env:ironment in which it takes place. It Is a rantl~m world we live in, where bad . things happen tel good people, and where blame cannot alw~ys be established. With this in ltllnd, it is each citize11' s duty to observe the world as im- pr-ovable. For change is not pr-ecluded by this randgmness, this is done by contagious mind- clos.ih_g that assumes the worst. It is each citizen's duty to avoid gi-ving up, or in the words of the famous philosopher Sting \\¥11en the world . is running down, you make the best of wl:u:~t' .s still around.\ New Teachers Education Program to Begin in Fall By LORI RICHARD In the Fall of 1988, Union plans .to introduce a teachers' edu~ation program designed for students who are interested in pursuing a career in secondary education. The teachers' education program, leading to a bachelor or arts degree in secondary· education, bas already been approved by the Union Academic Affairs Council, and will focus on sach areas of study as the philosophy of education, the psychology of teaching, the sociology of teaching, methods of teaching, and a student teaching in- ternship. For those students wishing to continue the study of secondary education, Union will also offer a five year program leading to a Master's of Science degree in secondary education. According to Terry Weiner, Assistant Dean of Faculty, the decision to establish a teachers' education program at Union we~s due m part to the contintLEd CL\'iticisms: by the Carnegie .Ass'«leiation and other critics of .Aineriean education that many cf America's teachers are poorly trained. In particular, eKisting teachers' education pl:'ograms, which are offered primarily at state universities, have been criticized for a lack (If content. Ifis believed that Union, as a pl:'ivate institution which offers a w~ll-rounded course of study, WI()Uld better prepare in- cilviduals- for careers in te.~ching .. The move will~ of CllQrSe, also benefit Union. 1\:s DElli! Weiner points out, the new pr-ogrc~m will provide students Wilo are interested .in the Hlllllanities with the additional cpti()n of being able to plan a career in education. In addition, asDean Weiner notes, the field CJf Education, due to a high dernlii!d for teachers, and in- cr-eased salaries, holds a great dea).()f opportunity for students. Senior Week- Trip to Great Escape Thurs., June 11 Tickets Go On Sale $15.30. includesadmi.ssions topark &_Bar-8-Q Starting Tues .• May 26 StiJcfent Actiwilies Mrs. Marra's c.ffice Underdassmenwekome League Join some hard-core squash enthusiasts on a ladder which will be run ov.er the summer months at the new squash courts atth.e new gym. We shatl be playing witllthe i nternationa 1 ball during these warmer month:S. H there is a flas-h of ,interest, please call me, sandy Vohr, a1 377-2910, for more i·nformation, or sign up on the sheet pinned to the bulletin board across from the cage in the .new gym; leaving your name and telephone number so that 1 might get in touc hwith you. FEATURES .r= :t::: E (J') C\1 ·U u Ql .0 Ql 0:: ~ 0 0 .r= 0. A new carbohydrate festival? Smart Food ByWENDYZ~ERMAN Some of you may not realize it, but there is a new item on the racks in the 'Skellar. The item that I am referring to is the popcorn iri the black bag: \Smartfood.\ As it is stated on the cover of the bag, \Kentucky Popcorn blll'sting with premium Cheddar Cheese.\ Now, · speaking from personal ex· perience, I find this new delicacy extremely satisfying. In other W()rds, I love to eat it; the only drawback being that excess cheese powder ac- cumulates tmder your nails, but it is white as opposed to orange. Also, girls.: there is a caloric content listed on the back. The Smartfood Company is run by a 23-yeaF old journalism graduate Ken Meyers. Meyers attributes his occasional bad ~rades on ' 'all that orange junk fQod (he) ate\ and encourages all Smartfood lo:vers to share tlleir secrets of success with him, to be rewarded with a case of .Srnartfood or a t-shirt. ca!r of ·smartfood or a t-shirt. 1ne company, located in Narlboro, MA, was founded in 1984 when \one of the Smart- food creators discovered the Smartfood recipe while trying t() discover in her kitchen.\ It was in October of that year that t:he company was formed and illcorporated. The first bag was sold in April of 1985, and by N()vember of 1986, Smartfood was the winner of the New York Gourmet Show and in Dec-ember, popped their billi<mth kernel. Presently, Srnartfood is available in New England, New York, New .Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and Bermuda. fUNKON CULLJ5GJ~. SJl!lJ~lli(EI~S FO!~U!Vl - prese11ts Jerry Seinfeld with Livingston Taylor Wednesday, May 27th, 1987 8:00PM Mem()rial Chapel Tickets: S2.00 ($1.00 with this advertisement) Available i'n Old Chapel-Box Office

Pa~e 8 CONCORDIENSTS, May 21, 1987 rr:: $! FEATURES ---------------------------~--------~------~--~~--~ Travel Tips By MARJORIE HOFFER Oh yes, all you J~uniors who did not go through room lottery, and did· not have to deal with pre-registration, you lucky people are going on your ... Term Abroad. I highly recommend Arthur Frommer's \Europe on 25 Dollars a Day\ for anyone who is going to do some pre-term travelling. However, let's be real, Arthur and Hope (Art's wife), try to help with some travel tips, and for the most part, do a swell job-BUT cm1· you honestly follow packing tips from fifty year olds'! Even ''Let's Go\ (written by college students and not nr.arly as good as 25 Dollars a nay), tells women to bring one outfit with them. True, light bags are better. But, look at yourself-are you one to go through Europe on one outfit? I'm not! I overpacked. Really, what you ought to bring are three pairs of pants. One of them should be jeans, and one a light pair of black cotton ones that you can use to go out in. Next, one or two pairs of long shorts, they don't take up much room, but I'd bring long shorts because Europeans do not wear shorts. Bring one skirt that won't get wrinkled. I'd pack a light sweat shirt, a cotton sweater, and some shirts. F<Jr toiletries, get travel size sample stuff. Bring soap and shampoo. (Your B&B wilt not supply you with little soaps like they do at the Hilton. ( Bring .Sea Breeze Towlettes, or even Handi-Wipes. You feel really gr()SS on trains, and will love to alleviate this. Also, stock up on deodorant, you won't he changing your clothes too often. AND my French representative noted that THEY DO NOT SELL DEODORANT IN . As far as shoes go, let's just say, even in my Tretorns I had horrendous blisters. Do not even bother to pack a pair of shoes that you'll need to break in. Money tips are as follow: Get your travelers checks in two types of denominations: lOO's and 20's. Use the 201s when you are hopping from cQuntry to country during your major travel periods. That way, you won't lose a ton of money. Everytime you exchange money you lose money. Every little country has its own currency. Try your hardest to exchange at a bank as opposed to an exchange place . because the rates are much better. But, if you are in the middle of no where, (ion 't bother searching for a bank, do what's easiest. When you are in your base country, cash a 100 on a good rate day. In England, they charged almost five dollars to cash travellers ehecks, so it was always better to do one 'huge transaction 1ma.:n a hunch of small ones. Illo st . importa11tly, do not even. tllink of leaving home withollt a charge card. (Even if yoll h11ve to swear tD your parents tbat you W()IJ.'t ever use it .j 'You never kn()W when you willl. get your bags stolen, ami n.eed extra casll. You never 'l~~ll()W when an emergency ()E any sort will occur. I st~g;gest bringing tw() charge cards ll.lldhide one from yourself wh(!ny()l! are settled in your \home\' abroad. Travel plaas : First off, calli a few travel agentsto see who will get you the bes;t xate to Eurl,lpe. A lot of stude11ts fly Air India to Europe. If y<()ta are not flying peak season, ::VOllshould be able to do well. .Also, I made my plane reservati()ns very early, and later on,. another flight was added comiilg ilome that W()uld have been a lot more con- veriiant. Do not think that you can fly standby if you are Coming bome anywhere near Christmas. It's better to pay more to get a flight. You might wind up spending the difference on a hotel room. ··As far as plan11ing your itinerary: some P._eo~le ilre very laid-back, and do just what comes to them when they feel like it. Other people make \Travelling will b1·ing mit qualitits you never tho11gh you had, like your seventh grade friend.\ schedules and want to adhere to thEm .strictly. Which is best? Neither. Just make sure that the people you are travelling with have similar life style$. If you had your heart set on alot of sigbtseeing, then don't travel with someone who is very lax. On the other hlll!d, if you\hate the id.ea of a schedule, then do not plan on spending a week with Julie McCoy .. Unless you are travelling in the middle of the summer, you really do not need to make hotel reser- vations. Yotir first night in, tho11gh, it might ·be nice to know just. where you are staying. Also, remember-do not count on anything! Train strikes .occur all of the time, especially in Italy. You just might find yourself in Vantemeglia at 4:00 in the· morning, when you had planned on being asleep in a Pensione in Florence. Remember, Europe may look small on a map, compared to the United States, but things are a l()t farther in real life. So, do not expect to flee everything in two weeks. You will get back again. Pd also advise taking an ·overnight tra·in with a couchette, instead of saving the money and trying to sleep in the car. You might wind up wasting a whole day asleep in your hotel room the next morning. Getting a couchette means making reservations Al!EAD of time. In order to be more comfortable, you sometimes have to give up spontaneity. · . BFing a \money bag\ thmg. anything .important in your h[)tel room. Speaking of Americans, European men thinll: that American women are sleazy and. easy. Not every guy y()ll' meet will be a pervert, but if you are female, just lteep in mind the stereotype that many m~les will have of y()u once you open your mouth. . If you are organiZed, while you are on your travel spurt, a g()od idea woUld be to pack yoqr main bag in a locker once you arrive at your stop, and in a smaller bag take your ne<lessities. This way, you won't have to schlE:Jp your stuff' and can ·avoid taking expensive taxis. If you do not have a place to keep your clothes that you neecl fot the entire term, then you have a problem. Think of anything to help YoU! Do you have a remote relative or pen pal, :at whose house you can dr~p your stu££? One friend stayed in a nice hotel her first night in, and was able to store her bags there. Shipping your bags over to Europe can be a re~l pam in the wazoo, ·and VERY expensive. Believe me. whe11 I .traveled for two weeks witll my \overnight\ bag, I thought my arm would fall off a zillion times. I would never ever have managed with all of my things. Of course (this goes witll<lut saying}, SAVE room fot . the g()odies. Hopefully, you will be able to satiate your shopping b11ds. (I did in Italy.) All that p!i.11!lpbanalia takes up room. A goCJci idea is to pack ·an extra duffle hag with you. Wllile you are traveling, NEVER let a friend hold you ba<:k:. If you wanted to see such an<l sach, and she-he wanted to go somewhere else-SPLIT UP! It's a great idea to travel with someone, it's a lot safer, but you will learn a lot more on your own. Spending just a day abne might be the best time you'll have. It feels great to be inEur()pe by yourself. You may not want to spend long periods of time away from your traveling partner, it may seem scary. But, two weeks are not so lon.g~ so make the most out of it, and do what YOU want. FRANCE. Bring your strongest anti-acne stuff. You will never have such oily skin as when you travel. Yuck, just thinking about it makes me queasy. Also get a blow dryer while you are away, or else buy a converter. The outlets are different in England, the United States, and the continent of Europe. Believe me, you WILL want a blow dryer, (even if you did ask Henri right before you left to give you a \easy-to-care-for 1-Jairstyle\ ). If you have room, pack a very lightweight towel. It is a lot better than the itsy- bitsy ·washcloths the hotel!; have. Throw in a bathing suit. You never know when you might need it, and it hardly takes up any room at all. Although ... if you are very French, you need not pack a top to your bikini-oo-la-la. Some travellers feel pepto-bismol is an important necessity. Some people wore pouches, little purses that could be stra-pped across their chests. Un£ortunately, l()ts of Eut<Jpeans think Americans are suckers. We are. Don't lose anything-your Eurail pass, passport, or travellers checks. Take photocopies of your passport page, your travellers check numbers and give them to your travel partner.It might save a lot of time in an eme~gency. Don't leave Traveling will bring out qualities that you never thought you had, (like your seventh grade French). You will inevitably come back with a lot m()re independence than you had wllen you left. It is probably the cheapest commodity available. Also, don't worry when things go wrong. They will. Just writing this makes me remember the mishaps I had on rny trip. They are honestly my fontiest mem()ries!. Have the best time, good luck, and don't forget to send us a few post~ cards. ALL CAMPUS .PHOTO Be at the West WaH at 3 p.m. on Friday (.Hable espanol? Use your Spanish and support an important t . I volunteer effort at the same 1 me. If you are interested in working with an Outreach Program for area Hispanic families contact: Prof. Camille M.C. Qualtere Dept. of Modern Lan~tJages H U 211-C, x6587 All are welcome! Men's & Women's Swimming and Diving Organizational Meeting Wednesday May 27 at 4:00 P .. M. l·n the Pool Ba I cony Anyone interested in next J.ecrr's ,tecrm staould attend. If ya11 are unable to attend please co11111et Susan Bassett x-6484 •. ·-

CONCORDJENSJS, May 21, · 1987 Page 9 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY U:ranus: Planet of Many Discoveries By KRISTANSMITH On March 13,- 1781 William Herschel made an important discovery. He was looking at the Gemini constellation, when he noticed .somethi,ng that looked larger than the reSt of the stars. After obserVirig the ''star\ for a long time it was foWld that it moved with respect to the backgro1.111d of stars. This is a characteristic of planets as the word \planet means \wan:. derer\ in Greek. Therefore William Herschel had not discovered a star but· th.e seventh planet - Uranus. . · Uranus has a mass of ahnost 15 times greater than that of the Earth and it has a radius four times lCU'ger. the planet looks like a light green sphere when seen· through a telescope. There are many .pecUliarities of Uranus .. One of them is its axis orientation. ·Every planet rotates around an a1d,s. Most planet's axis are perpendicular to their orbital · planes. For instance, the Earth's axis is 90 degrees tD the orbital plane. Uranus' axis, on the other hand, lies almost in the orbital plane. This makes the planet look as t])ough it is lying on its side. In other words the North Pole of Urarms is located where the equator is on the Earth. Another interesting feature about Uranus is its rings. These rings were .discovered ac- cidentally. They were seen when a NASA airphme was studying the occultation of a star near Uranus. Occultation, is when a planet travels between the Earth and a star. The star becomes dimmed when it is blocked by the planet. As the scientists were ob- serving Uranus' occultation they had a surprise. The star dimmed five times·:before it was scheduled to dim! Also, a half hour after this ~ing, the star dimmed five more times. The scientist realized that there must be something surrounding Uranus. They soon figured out ·- that it was the rings. Later on four more rings were ' disc()vered, making the total amount to be nine rings. Because Uranus is so far out into .space, little is knoWn· about it. The Voyager II travelled by Uranqs this January. It will be interesting to bear about what they discovered. Look for the · upc()ming articles and pictures. Yo:u Can See Your :fr.iends, Meet N,ew People, Listen to Music, a-nd Get .Paid at the Sam:e Time. Shifts Available at The Rathskellar Come see us, we are worth the experience. The. Society of Physics Students Presents a movie entitled ''The Master of Light'' a Biography of Albert A. Michelson Refreshments will be served Tuesday, May 26 .at 4:30. in Steinmetz 1 06 AIDS Survey · Here is an AIDS surv~y that was performed on 20 college campuses throughout the country. It indicates some illteresting trends. . 1. Are Y\'>ti concerned aboutthe f)OSsibility of contracting AIDS? Yesfi9% No31% · I 2. DQ you think that AIDS will significantly alter the sexual lifestyle of 1Ilany people in this country? Yes90% NolO% 3~ If I found out my roo mate had- AIDS, I woald: a. Move out 37% b. Ignore it 16% c. Report him or l::ler to campus health authorities 4 7% . . 4. Should students who are foun(l to have AIDS be asked to leave the umverstty? Yes13% No87% 5. Should there be mandatory AIDS testing for new students at your school? 6. Should t11ere be mandatory tracing and notifiCation of past sexual partners of AJDS victims? Yes23% No77% Yes75% No25% 7. Should we 9.l1arantine AIDS victims? B. Health officials have recomended mandatory AIDS testing for all hospital patients, couples applying for marriage lic;enses, those seeking prenatal care, and those who seek medical help forvenereal diseases. Do you agree? Yesl9% Yes83% Yes97% No81%' No17% No 3% 9. Do you believe there should be AIDS education in public sch()ols? 10. If so, when should it begin? . . . · a. Elementary school29% b. Jumor htgh school 53% c. High school17%. d. College 1%_ . , . . · 11. Do you ag~ee with the assertion that \AIDS 1s God s Judgment agamst an Yes 16% N 0 84% immoral nation?\ . . .. 12. Should education about AIDS take primarily a moral approach or a publtc safety approach? a. Moral'5% b. Public .safety 40% c. Both5~% ' Primer on Star Formation By ERICH MARZOLF On April 30, Professor Marc Kutner from RPI gave a talk on the formation of stars. More specifically on the problems facing astronomers in deriving mechanistic models that take itTto account experimental data, A brief theory on star for- mation goes like this: Throughout the universe are huge clouds composed of mostly cold molecular hydrogen and dust with densities up to 100 particles per cubic centimeter. For comparison purposes the Earth's atmosphere at sea level would have around 1 x E19 (a one with 19 zeros after) par- ticles per cubic centimeter. Professor Kutner surprised many in the audience by giving a list of many C()mmon organic compounds found in these clouds. Various forces such as gravity, magnetic fields, and pressure waves from stellar explosions acting on the cl()ud can cause some parts to con- tract. As the density increases the gravitational attraction in that ·location becomes greater pulling in even more matter. If enough matter is present, further gravitational con- traction raises the temperature enough to ignite hydrogen fusion. However there are some problems witb this model that Professor Kutner spoke at length about. One major problem is the distribution of angular momentum. Experimental data shows that just about all stars. including our sun rCltate about an axis. This tells us that as the particles in the cloud with their in- dividual of angular momenta contract the forces involved do not randomly cancel each other out as one would expect. As tbe cloud continues to C()ntract it rotates faster about an axis. This rotation tends to cause the particles to fly away from each other. This is analogous to an ice skater slowly rotating with his or her arms spread apart. As the person pulls his arms closer to his body he starts to rotate faster. Professor Kutner gave the example of a gaseous ball rotating around an ar- bitrary axis. Contraction could occur parallel to the axis of rotation leading to a pancake shaped cloud. As not being an expert in these matters I found professor Kutner's presentation very clear and infonnative. Every Thursday at 4:30 p.m. in Steinmetz 106 the Physics department sponsors its weekly colloquium. All are welcome to attend for an educational and relaxing time. The Campus ·. Store will be returning their Spring semester textbooks beginning May 18thc If you haven't purchased some of your books, this is the time to do it. Thank You CAMPUS STORE Physics Colloquia i.n Steinmetz 106,4:30 ,Refreshments, 4:451ecture May21 11 Skywatchers of Ancient Mexico\ Professor Anthony Aveni Department of Physics and Astronomy Colgate University June4 Professor stuart Vogel Department of Physics Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

Pa.ge 10 CONCORDIENSlS, May 21, 11J'87 FounJnj at lim«~ Coll~t 1877 ----- -~---------- Student Forum Election: Don't Gripe You Can Still Act The Student Forum elections are tomorrow; as always, we encourage you to vote, and vote wisely. N ore over, though, we encourage you to run!· 1<lok at the election statements on pages 12 and 13. For President, there are two people running. For the three Vice-President pgsitions of Administration, Academics and Finance, two candidates are running unopposed and therP is no one running for one position. There is one persun running for Junior Representative with three positions open, and all three Sophomore Representative candidates will be elected as well. Only Senior Representative appears to be a race, with seven people running for the three spots. This is not meant to be a reflection on the people running; many are quaU:fied and highly competent. Jlowever, the students do not have a fair .selection from -wllich to choose. The election was poorly publicized; the :F()rum did not publicize it and Concordiensis did not anticipate the problem. However, it is too late to cast blame. We should look for solutipns. There will be runoff elections next week to fill in positions. Although several key positions will have been filled, many more remain. In a time of massive change cncampus, the people in charge will havenmch room to ~ct and implement their ideas. The V.P. for Academics, facing General Education and Gel Time, will be a crucial :position. If you who are reading this, faculty or student, know someone concerned, capable, and willing to work, push that student to run. It will make a difference. Fortunately, we have some strong candidates. But n€xt year, a year when much can be and needs to be done, if the Forum disappoints you, remember that the opportunity was there. You could have made a dif- ference. And you still can, in the runoff elections. No Guts, No Glory Unless the school is willing to support its academic policies with concrete resources to enable them to fun.ction as they were intended, the quality of education at union will be compromised. Last year the College implemented a much needed course load reduction for professors. As a result of this the number of day classes offered has significantly decreased. There are approximately 15() full time professors at the College. Assuming each professor now teaches six classes instead of seven, there would be 15() fewer courses taught. In order to compensate for this loss the school would have had to hire twenty-five new full time professors. Simple mathematics, right? Other factors, however, influence this numJ:Jer. Some professors chose to temporarily maintain the original course load to ease the transition into this system, and there were also some temporary faculty positions created . These measures were only temporary, though, and hardly fill the gap. Since the reduction went into effect ap- proximately thirty classes llave been dropped. Last year during the Concordiensis State of the Union, Vice President for Academic Affairs, ThomasD' Andrea, stated that the school planned to fill between nine and eleven new full time positions over the course of the years. This number is less than one-half the number needed to compensate for the course load reduction. .f And, have they even filled those few positions?) In making their decision to limit the number of new positions the Administration must have been aware that this would increase class sizes. Either the introduction class would dramatically increase or the number of upper level speci~lty cou~ses w?uld de~rease and ~nly ~e offered on a cyclical basis. N e1ther of these solutwns 1s acceptable. Here's a novel idea: why not hire more professors .. The school ha~ the money for it. Ev~n if ~t doesn't, it would be adv1sable for them to fmd 1t S()mewhere. One of the main attractions that Union has to offer that not many other institutions can boast of is a relatively small class size. In th~ futur~ a~ ~oll~ge enrollment declines across the natwn, this distmctlon could be a great assistance for the C~Uege, not to rnention that it provides for a better educatiOn. Neither of the new curriculum proposals will be ef~ fecti ve if the College refuses to back these systems with ·the necessary resol}.rces to make them work. LETTERS: CAC. Freshman Core: F To the Editor: From May 3~, we attended a conference held by thE University of Chicago coa· cerning writing and thE curriculum which has direct implications for the discussion of General Education. The main fact this Cilnference aimed t~ explore was that pure Gom· position and Argument courses do not successfully train students to write colleg.e papers, but \W-courses\ in different disciplines do. Several explanations ·of the fact were offered, but 'it was generally agreed that a proper in· traduction to writing and reasoning should provide four things: 1. more knowledge ()£ information the field of study regards as important; 2, familiarity with the habits 9f thought in the field; 3. some acquaintatlce with the history of the field, so that the st11dent knows why certain questioas are being pursued; 4. mastery of the stylistic conventions of the particular field. As a result,. the person best qualified .to assign writing, teach writing, and grade writing is the professor within his/her own course. The proposal of the Curriculum Alternatives Conunittee (CAC) does not offer an approach to writing and argument that follows these guidelines. The Freslunan Core Composition and Argumellt coursesaimto do what has been shown to fail: to teach writing and reasoning as generic skills separated' from discussion of the text and transferable bet· ween all disciplines. Kn~wing how to write a .good paper for a ·course requires that one know what is sensible to say abo-ut a subject and what counts in that field as· a good argll.rilent; it has much less to do -with split in- finitives and thE undistributed middle in a sy:ll<Jgism. - The upper level writing requirement in the CAC proposal amounts to sophomores and juniors sub- mitting papers for eval~;~ation to a teacher who did not assign them, who may- oot know the subject, and who certainly does not know the dassroom context to which ·they are related. Not only is this likel:y to lead to unfair evaluations, but it substitutes evaluation for education. In this process, students do not learn how to write a - certain sort of argument; they just learn that in the opinion (if a professor not peculiarly qualified to know, their writing rates ap 'A,' ':S;' 'C,' or worse, The AAC Proposals on General Edu:cati()n and on Writing, on the other hand, are in keeping wit:h tbe current state of t:binking about education in wdting and reasoning. The AAC requirement that students select three courses from dif- ferent disciplines (history, literature, ~nd civilization), related by epoch and area, will introduce the stttdents to the habits of thougllt andthe base of knowledge tJf several disciplines. It v.rill encourage students to re-1J.ect on the fact that what is important to a literature teacher in Mon- taigne's Essays, and relevant to its interpretation, may not be what is .imp()rtant to the philosoph¥ professor or the professor of history. Or they may find that some knowledge of 16th century Pyrrhonism gained in a Philosophy class gives them:a great ad.vatltage in coming to a full literary ap- preciation .of Montaigne's work in a French class. In both cas~s, the student's experieitce of learning is enrich~d; - i:n the first, by a new awarenESS of how disciplines maintain . dif· ferent standards of fact, argument, and -truth; ,in_ the second, by a fuller sense of the dimensions of the subject. The proposal for Writing Across the Curriculum (Fresh· man Precept., W·C()urses, and Senior Thesis), not yet act;ed upon by the faculty; fits, easily with the AAC General Edl!cation Proposal.. It places writing firmly withiri the procEss of learning by requiring teachers in certain regUJ,ar cour-se of- fering to help students with writing, on the assumption that each teacher is pecllliarly qualified and individually responsible f()r teaciling Wf'iting in their field. · The CAC pr()posal on 'Writing, Argument, and the 'Western Civilization Core is a curriculum tried twenty to thirty years ago, and dropped as educationally unsuccessful (we do not extend the same criticisms to the CAC p:r~posals on Science and Fo~eign Languages). The AAC Pr()posal on Writing has been adapted by many colleges within tile last ten years, andhecauseit W()rks, is being adapted by m<Jre at present. The AAC General Education Proposal is an in- novation, but one based on best of what we learned at the Chicago Conference on Writing and the Curriculum. Sin()erely, FehnonDavis Adf'ian Frazier Cotrecti()ns to Spring Term Final Exam Schedule: Monday, June8-8:.3o-10:30 A.M. PHV ll~Both sections now in SSCI 016 Monday, Jnne 8-:-ll: 15-1:15 P.M. EGL 10 • HUMN 110 FRN 139- HUMN 115 Wednesday, Junel~S:30-10:30 A.M. Let.ters to the Editor and Commentari:es do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial . board o.f Concordiensis . All leHers to tbe Editor mul1 be typed ciOtJblt- spaced and submitted by • · · .p.m. each Tuesday ·IMfort. pultllcatian. All leHeri must IHt signed br no ,11101'4 than folir people ,nd all: writen should provW• tlllir fKidreSHI IIICI phOM ..... rt.for werlfialtiN Gf tilt litter. N•••• ltDr· ...., will not .......... . CGRCOnllentil reseneJ 1M rilhf• tG reJect lottera, tNt- .. .,. •lou• or clo, at . cOIIfOtW to at...., .t .-1: ..... CER 35- N()w in BUTR 204 EER 154 • BUTR 1()~ AND BUTR 106 Associate SJll1l'bl Editor. Sc~erule Edt1~r$. \ .. - Advertising !Editors __ .. Assistant Advertising Editors Jessica AdelsGn, Kllthie Gre{;}p, Business M;nag~rs. - .-._ BethGoods~th.Bo.br:1a~:C!::- -·. Photo Editor_ . Alan 1\lajlpe.r Assistant ~()'Editur ... _. . _ _ . :Rebecca &:U.lth subscripti~n _ ~tors John );ergeron; EtoberlMcGowatt Honorary F'aculty Advisor C. William Huntley STAFF: Cathy :6~narik, Mic:key :ar~dley, ~rc ijuJSOf1r:·Lisa Brown, Mark Burton, Leela Chowdhury, J'On Cohn, By-sse Feingold, Lauren Feuerman, Carol B.'aas, _ Del,)ra B .. H~llig, Davi~ Janes~ Atbena Lintl, __ Kell$y J?:ark. II~ri llticlliird;:·c~t~s Sheridan, Ezra_ Sherman, Michael S~~~rs'OOm, iiebecca SOil~, _ Cara: Tabatk:, 'Betn~Turney) ·Mtttk<3:imm.er~{Wertdy Zim~ merman. CONCORDIENBIS is publi$bed-\every Thursday by the stlld~11t body of Urdon . College, Schellectady. New York 123~a;. . Publlcati'()mt· Office: ·Susquehanna Publi<iation, ·ltlc:t Box :t8tf, -·· Sidney, N cw York 13838 (607)563,.8339. Subscription r.ate: $24per year, delivere!i anywhere in the United States. Cottc()r(liellSis subscribes tO; the Intercollegiate Press (lP?~ OJJpce Teleplloll~ . r 518.)370-61!i1i. . . . . · _ _ · . . , ,,_ , <... · .·. _ - '.!

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 Olnttnlrbirnsis F~ al l lmon Coll~t 187;' ----- ---·--·-·--··- Student Forum Election: Don't Gripe Yo·u Can Still Act The Student Fo1nm elections a1e tomorrow; as always, we enconrage you to V@te, and vote wisely. Mo1eover, thtmgh, we encourage you to run! Look at the eleeti<!m statements on pages 12 and 13. For President, there are two people running. For the three Vice-President positions of Administration, Academics and Finance, tw@ candidates are nmning unopposed and theF' is no one running for one position. There is one perstJ!l running for Junior Representative with three positions open, and aU three Sophomore Representative candidates will be elected as well. Only Senior Representative appears to be a race, with seven people running for the th.ree spots. This is not meant to be a reflection on the people running; many are qualified and highly competent. However, the students do not have a fair selection from which to choose. The election was poorly publicized; the Forum did not publicize it and Concordiensis did not anticipate the problem. However, it is too late to cast blame. We shouldleokfor solutions. There will be runoff elections next week to fill in positions. Although several key positions will have been filled, many more .remain. In a time of massive change on campus, the people in charge wiH have much room to act and implement their ideas. The V.P. for Academics, facing General Education and Gel Time, will be a crucial position. If you who are reading this, faculty or student, know someone concerned, capable, and willing to work, push that student to run. It will make a difference. Fortunately, we have some strong candidates. But next year, a yea1 when much can be and needs to be done, if the Forum disappoints you, remember that the opportunity was there. You could have made a dif- ference. And you still can, in the runoff elections. No Guts, No Glory Unless the school is willing to support its academic policies with concrete resources to enable them to function as they were intended, the quality of education at union will be compromised. Last year the College implemented a much needed course load redaction for professors. As a result of this the number of day classes offered has significantly decreased. There are approximately 150 full time professors at the College. Assuming each professor now teaches six classes instead of seven, there would be 150 fewer courses taught. In order to compensate. for this loss the school would have had to hire twenty-five new full time professors. Simple mathematics, right? Other factors, however, influence this number. Some professors chose to temporarily maintain the original course load to ease the transition into this system, and there were also some temporary faculty positions created . These measu1es were only temporary, though, and hardly fill the gap. Since the reduction went into effect ap- proximately thirty classes have been dropped. Last year during the Concordiensis State of the Union, Vice President for Academic Affairs, Thomas D'Andrea, stated that the school planned to fill between nine and eleven new full time positions over the course of the years. This number is less than one-half the number needed to compensate for the coarse load reduction. (And, have they even filled those few positions?) In making their decision to limit the number of new positions the Administratior:t must ?ave bee~ aware t~at this would increase class s1zes. Either the mtroductlon class would dramatically increase or the number of upper level specialty courses would decrease and only be offered on a cyclical basis. Neither of these solutions is acceptable. Here's a novel idea: why not hire more professors .. The school has the money for it. Ev~n if ~t doesn't, it wmdd be advisable for them to fmd 1t somewhere. One of the main attractions that Union has to offer that not many other institutions can boast of is a relatively small class size. In th~ futur~ a~ ~oll~ge enrollment declines across the nation, th1s d1stlnct10n could be a great assistance for the College, not to mention that it provides for a better education. Neither of the new curriculum proposals will be ef- fective if the College refuses to back these systems with the necessary resources to make them work. LETTERS CAC'. Freshman Core: F ------------------------ To the Editor: Fro:m May 3-6, we attended a conference held by the University of Chicago con- cerning writing and the ctlfriculum. which has direct implications for the discussion of General Education. The main fact this conference aimed to ex:plore was that pure Com- position and Argument courses do not successfulily train students to write college papers, but \W-courses\ in different disciplines do. Several ex:planations of the fact were offered, but it was generally agreed that a proper in- tr<>duction to writing and reasoning should provide four things: 1. more knowledge of information the field of study regards as important; 2. familiarity with the habits of th<>ught in the field; 3. some acquaintance with the history of the field, so that the student knows why certain questions are being pursued; 4. mastery of the stylistic conventions of the particular field. As a result, the person best qualified to assign writing, teach writing, and grade writing is the professor within his/her own course. The proposal of the Curri cui urn Alternatives Committee ( CA C) does not offer an approach to writing and argument that follows these guidelines. The Freshman Core Composition and Argument courses aim to do what has been shown to fail: to teach writing and reasoning as generic skills separated from discussion of the text and transferable bet- ween all disciplines. Knowing bow to write a good paper for a course requires that one know what is sensible to say about a subject and what counts in that ·field as a good argwnent; it has much less to do with split in- finitives and the undistributed middle in a syllogism. The upper level writing requhement in the CAC proposal amounts to sophomores and juniors sub- mitting papers for evaluation to a teacher who did not assign them, who may not know the subject, and who certainly does not know the classroom context to which they are related. Not only is this likely to lead to unfair evaluations, but it substitutes evaluation for educatioa. In this process, stuclents do not learn how to write a certain sort of argument; they just learn that in the opinion of a professor not peculiarly qualified to know, their writing rates a.n 'A,' 'B,' 'C,' or worse. The AAC Proposals on Ge11eral Education and on Writing, on the other hand, are in keeping with the current state of thinking about education in writing and reasoning. The AAC requirement that students select three courses from dif- ferent disciplines (history, literature, and civilization), related by epoch and area, will introduce the students to the habitsofthoughtandthe base of knowledge of several diseiplines. It will encourage students to reflect on the fact that what is important to a literature teacher in Mon- taigne's Essays, and relevant to its interpretation, may not be what is important to the phi!()sophy professor or the professor of history. Or they may find that some knowledge of 16th century Pyrrhonism gained in a Philosophy class gives them a gr;eat advantage in coming to a 15ull literary ap- preciation of Miontaigne's work in a French class. In both cases, the student's experience of learning is enriched; in the first, by a new awareness of how discipline:s maintain dif- ferent stand';ards of fact, argument, and truth; in the second, by a f.\lller sense of the dimensions of the subject. The proposal for Writing Across the Curriculum {Fresh- man Precept, W-Courses, and Senior Thesis) , not yet acted upon by the fa.eulty, fits easiily with the AAC ~eneral Education Proposal. It places writing firmly within the process of learning by re.quiring teachers in certain re~ular course of- fering to help students with writing, on the assumption that each teacher is peculiarly qualified anld individuaHy responsible for teaching writing in their field. · The CAC proposal on Writing, Argument, all.d the Western Civilization Core is a curriculum tlfied twenty to thirty years allo, and dropped as educationaJly WlSUccessful (we do not e::xtend the same criticisms to tile CAC proposals on Science and Foreign Languages). Tbe AAC Proposal on Writing has been adapted by many colleges; within the last ten years, and!Jecause it works, is being adapited by more at present. The AAC General Education Proposal is an in- novation, but o-ne based on best of what we learned at the Chicago Confel'ence on Writing and the Currie!ulum. Sincerely, Felmon Davis Adrian Frazier Corrections to Spring Term Final Exam Schedule: Monday, June 8-8:30-10:30 A..M. Monday, June 8-11:15-l:L5 P.M. EGLlO-HUMN 110 FRN 139- HUMN 115 PHY 11- Both sections now in SSCI 016 Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis All Letters te ft. Editor must be typed dOQbll- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All leHers must be signed by no more riMm four peoplt and all writen should previde tlleir addreues 1184 phone IIUIIIMn for vorlficcltiH of tilt letter. lllltHa nor- aally will not be wlthhkl. c~ reserves the right to retect letttn tllat .,.. •lou• or do Ht c:Hfora to ,......., of .. .... Wednesday, JWie 10-8:30-10:30 A.M. CEH35 -Now in BUTH204 EER 154- BUTR 109 AND BUTR 106 cnmtntr. ·· ..... ···· ... ·· . . . : - : : Editors .. inChie£ News .Editor AssGciate/News idttors FeatLires Editors Corrunentary Page Editors Arts Editors .Campus Page Editors Sports Editor Associate Sports Editor Science Editors Advertising Editors Assistant Advertising Editors Business Managers Photo Editor Assistant Photo Editor Subscription Editors Honorary Faculty Advisor ).• . 11lt1tlltS David Gulliver ~.-~e A:rm Selnnidt . . .. . . Obrtslline Hong lF'ionaSh'®tri, JR.,,t{~f:idWbidden Marjorie Hoft'et\ Cathy ~rkes · ···\ StuartSands Lori Leon~ Gary~tetttba~ · Jim MacLaugl'llin; CeliaMann ·Jennifer A~h~ Lisa Marzilli Chris Hinckley Andrew Miller John Berg~ron~A~Helfand Jaclti Ben. Lisa Ordower Jessica Adelsom, Kathie Green,. . Lori Kaplan Beth Goodsmitb:, Robin Jacobson Alan Klapper Rebecca Smith John Bergeron, Robert McGowan C. ~illiam Huntley STAFF: Cathy Bednarik, Mickey Bradley, Ma;rc Bulsont Lisa Bt'own, Mark Burton, Leela Chowdhury, Jo11 Cohn, llysse Feingold,. Lauren Feuerman,. Carol Haas, Debra B. Honig, David Jones, Athena Ling, Kelley .Park, Lori Richard, Chris Sheridan, 'Ezra Shermant Michael Silberstein, Rebecca Smith, Cara Taback, Beth Turney, Mark Zimmerman. Wendy Zitn· merman. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday- by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12303; Publicatit:ms Office: Susquehanna Publication, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607)a63..S339.Subscriptt.on rate: $24 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States~ Concotdiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone [516)37().6155.

CONCORD.JENSJS~ May 21, 1981. Page l1 To the Editor and tile entire Y:nion Community: T'he administration has decided to take the grass field located between McK.ean and Wellshouses and to make it into a parking lot. ThiS decision ootbers me a great <le.al, for a number of reasons. 'The first most ()bVious reason is that ·I feel that there is alreadf ample pat\ltip.g available Oil campus, and each year there seems to be 1ess and less grass. It seems the 11Jt is being built for the con- venieJice of a small n!IIllber of college employees wllo would prefer not to have to 'Walk from the Richmond parking lot to the place in Which they w,v~rk. The second reason that I am oothered by the decisj{lln is that I feel it was mad-e in a somewhat undel',hand.ed fasllion. !n 1984 the scb()ol was proposin•g a great deal ,of ccnstruction. The IJr()posals ia~luded building the new ac- cess road from Van Vr;anken, a new parking lot ne~r Garris fi.i!ld, · and a new parking lot between McKean an.<J Wells houses. .The Student Environmental Allianf;!e wrote up, a protest and alternative pr()posal at that time. A...nwnber of students spent weeks . Save the Grass colle>etfng hundreds of signatrul:'es on p.etitioqs, in· elurdir!g ,students, alumnl, and faclllty-, all opposed to the pr~p~:>Se<l changes·. I was president of Kappa Alpha So~ie:ty at the time and was also re!)rese11ting them in the Int~F'fraternity Council. The I.KC. wrote a letter agreeing tha:t ,th-ey as a whole were fully ~ISaiBsU:heproposed parking lot near lMcKean. The student F .OI:'·UJn a]S(J wrote to make clear tha:t th;eytoo backed the S.E.A. dull> :pro1Josal. ~ft er ·su:bmitting th.e proposal a11d petition to the ad• midistra:tiCJn, and after many hCJur,s ()f meetings and diS.:!IISSibn, we were told that the· eollege had decided not to h11iJd. tlie 11ew parking lot near Mc:Kean. A-lthough the Garris fiel-d: let and the access road wel'e goin.g to go thr()Ugh, -we felt somewhat victorious bEeanse we had succeeded on the- poiJtt personally most im- p(]ctaat to us, saving the Mcl{Ean field. On :Nunday afternoon, May 11.,, ()-f this year a number of wood:enfltakes appeared on the lai\';'11 weicll we had fpught so h~r-d to save. Since nothing had been said to us, we had to inq_11il'e about their pre~ence. We we1re t()ld that a parking lot was on the way, within six: months to a year. It seems they weren't going to announce this to us, rather they would just try to· go. :through with it. I guess they. felt that that way they could probably avoid tll.e olJ.. stacles that they ran into just three years before. I feel that this is a questionable way to make an administrative decisicm. I can't help wonder if they were just trying to appease u.s three years ago, figuringtbat we'd forget all about it in a couple of years. Well I just want tosaythat we haven't forgotten, and we are pr.otesting ft once again, as we will probably do in three more years if necessary. I doubt that there will ever be a time when students would · rather see asphalt than green grass. If we lose this battle and the field is converted to a parking lot we will be greatly disappointed, and perhaps the most disappointing thing will be the way the situation was handled. I don't think that student administration relations are as ·good as they should be, and the shoddy way in which decisions like this are made and announced only tends to make them worse. Tom Walsh '87 . Bring Beer Back To the Editor: · Rwnors abound as to the future of the Rathskellar. With the new student center available neld year~· many of the Rathskellar' s current services will . be dtaplicated. Th.er,e ar~ altern~tives to cl()sing it, however. re(}'pened at night to serve provide these students a place alcl)!lolic beverages (gasp). The to socialize. It would give 21 ~Lle;ge · shollld provide an on- Club a location and attract carnpu.s: lCJcation for students more students. Please don't tha.t are of age to gather and raise the liability is~me again. soc:iaJi:z~. Restricting them to What ofthe Skellar fund and the tb~ir rooms, houses, cr (sup- large surpluses that the College pCJsedly~ .invitation only parties, has rUn to accompany tuition dCJes not stJeiD practical. It also raises each year. The alumni d.CJes not seem safe to force would overwhelmingly ,rather stu.demts. t<l travel in their cars support the Skellar than see it to off campus drinking close. Let's be reasonable and e:3t.cibli:sbtnents. discuss this alternative sen- David Cope LETTERS Union Makes Video Dear Union College Com· munity: Since last September, we have been periodically wat- ching you through the electronic eye of a video camera. Over 20 hours of Union images fill four boxes magic-markered \orientation \fall \winter and \spring\ in our attic office. One empty box tumbled on top is marked \graduation-college center.\ In a phosphorescently lit room illuminated by a dozen television monitors, electronic devices labelled ''time base corrector\ and \downstream keyer'; passed judgment on the hours of video tape coursing through machines that sounded like the Rathskellar's pinball games. Time defied measurement in this Marshall McLuhan setting. We watched fast-forward through the months of Union life. Always mindfUl of an editing clock that read the video tape in in- crements of a thirtieth of a second, I chewed 011 the end of my thumb, my wife onher nails, while the editor pushed buttons and turned dials like \The Wizard of Oz.\ Twenty hours are now less than twenty minutes. Our Union story will be about the length of a piece on \60 Minutes.\ Here is what they do not tell you on network television. We have not produced a full and fair representation of all that goes on at Union in the course of a year. What we have tried to do is put together a subtle com~ mercia! about you and your school. In the tv news business, we call them \slices of life\: activities, classes, athletic events and interviews woven together without narration into a provocative electronic story. Starting this July, high school students applying to Union can request a copy of the . Union Video to view at home with their parents. High schools and alumni recruiters in every state and Canada will also receive copies. From our biased viewpoint, the video is com- pelling. We think it will attract adventurous applicants who live a long distance away from the college as well as close-in high school students who know little about Union, but want to attend a small highly regarded liberal arts college with a friendly atmosphere and op- portunities for personal initiative. The Admissions Department will most likely arrange for showings of the tape around campus as soon as it is com- pleted. In a real sense, you are the Union Video. Yoilr suggestions, patience and assistance made it an gel together. Still, we apolog,ize for invading your privacy, and moreso, for ex- cluding so much of what goes on at the college in the course of a year. However, we are proud of our production and hope you will be as well. In the final analysis, our success will be measured in the nmnbers aud quality of applicants to Union in the next few years from a shrinking college-age population. Finally, we have had a good deal of fun making the Union Video. This compliment comes from two somewhat jaded television news reporters who too rarely got to cover a good story. Union is a good story, and in thi~ age of scandal and deceit, an honest one. We will be back up in June to fill up the empty box. Best ofluck.to the Class of '87. Allan Eustis (Class of 1970) Molly McKitterick Producers - Union Video There are still some students at Union who remember the \old Skellar.\ Now that there will be an alternative gathering place for underage students perhaps the Skellal\ <:ould be, Op;eniEl~ the Skellar in the sibly. e~enings to 21 year old students seems a safe and logical way to Ju,niors Apply For A Watson Tips for the Theatre There will _be an informati()!nal meeting for aH students interested in appl,y:in9' .for the Watson Fellowship on : Monday, May !5 7:30P.M. , Room 104 Se»c. Sci. To the Editors: The Mountebanks would like to thank everyone who attended a performance of Godspell. We feel that the production was a success and we hope that you enjoyed watching it as much as we enjoyed performing it. In order to make future produc- tions an even better experience \Waiting for Godot\ is being · performed this week and \No Exit\ is being performed next week, an outline of theatre etiquette follows: 1) Arrive at least fifteen minutes before curtain 2) No .flash photography 3) No smoking 4) No food or drink 5) Do not go backstage before or after the performance or during intermission 6) Do not distract the per- formers by talking to neighbors or performers, making derogatory remarks, throwing items, unnecessary movement, making faces, or rustling programs 7) In the Nott, do not walk across the stage or touch anything on the stage 8) Please remain in your seat during the performance - LeAta Jackson Business Manager, Mountebanks If you don't know what the Watson is,. come and find out. s.umce it to say that ttle Thomas J, \lV . .at'Son Foundation wants to give you $11,000 to kciVel anywhere ill! the Vil!>rld yoiu want to go, no strings attached. Attention Reunion Workers!!! This yearwe hadtv.;o winners (Dan G•Orclon and Susan Knoll). Next year we are shiOoting for four. · A mandatory meeting of all student workers will be held Thursday, May 21 at 4:30p.m. in SS014. If you are interesied l:)ut cannot coi11·e t() the meeting, please contact Prof. Klein, x«\056, 109 Soc. Sd. .;..,· . -. . ·wff/ .$:\J. · \' 'Ll?lld; ~~rf'l.~~t.r:<:l credi:ts <:t~ring Qne of our $iX· r~,,; 1e~~~;~:~~;;:~·;~;·~;·~·~ .:····· ~\ .~., .. , ..... , .. \. ·''· .... ··s:t· .·. ,, · . t~t'mfl·: 'Jilf1~17JJufY28 · •• , • > .; · r-~rrnT!I.:'JUhe %2:~.lHi4v 31 . . .. . Term IV': Jl)IY 27~AIJ9vst28 .. C99f7t:~ 3:Jre. ~f,f~red bottl K.ii,Jrtng tb~ qqy .9nq irt th~ eveni.ng. Tuition per COt:lf'Sf!t$: · . . . \,Jnde.rg.raduate: .. . , Stieli{;t~ , .& . eEngineerfng 57'0() • , ......... L.J;b;~ral,Arl~ .. $540 ... . , ; . . . Mathematics $565 . S:lx .. vear Med. Ed. $l,2lS . Grduate: · · · S:¥Jenve & etl:giJteerlng · $~Si5. ; · Lib~raf Arb Be MMh $59\5 l.A...M. $515 rea·cher's Institute $.4DO ·\ • .< • -. · ReSf$ftat· rtf~ taking pt<~~e now at Wt!t.;:t.:S HOUSE. Drbp by tor a catatogt~e · ·Qr·¢;a~it: · · · :~~~~:.;.tfit~r:~J:r.F~rmn: :f'•t1n. ··· ·· · · · ***\********** tnlcnrh~ £rn Blill~ll®~~~®fJl on tile Class of 1991· T-Shirt Design for uorientation 87'' Theme: \A NEW TRADITION\ PRIZE FOR WINNER Bring Ideas to Student Activities c/o Jerri Clark

CONCORIJJENSIS, May 21, 1987 Page l1 To the Editor and the entire Union Community: The administration has decided to take the grass field lacated between McKean. and Wellsho1:1ses and to make it into a parking lot. This decision bothers rne a great deal, for a nwnber of reasons. The first most obvious reason is that I feel that there is already ample parking available on camp11s, and each year there seems to be less and. less grass. It seems the lot is being built for the con- venience of a small number of college employees who would prefer not to have to walk from the Richmond parking lot to the place in which they work. The second reason that I am bothered by the decision is that I feel it was made in a somewhat u.n derhanded fashion. In 1984 the school was proposin'g a great deal of construction. The proposals included building the new ac- cess road from VanVranken, a new parking lot near Garr-is field, and a new parking lot between McKean and Wells houses. The Student Environmental Alliance wrote up a protest and alternative proposal at that time. A number of students spent weeks Sav,e the Grass coUecting hundreds of signatures on petitions, in- cluding students, alumni, and faculty, all opposed to the proposed changes. I was president of Kappa Alpha Society at the time and was also representing them in the InterfraterNity Council. The I.F .C. wrote a letter agreeing that they as a whole were fully against the proposed parking lot near McKean. The student Foru.malso w:r:ote to make clear that they too backed the S.E.A. club proposal. After submitting the proposal and petition to the ad- ministration, and after many hours of meetings and discussion, we were told that the college had decided not to build the new parking lot near McKean. Although the Garris field lot and the access road were going to go through, ·we felt somewhat victorious beca11se we had succeeded on the point personally most im- portant to us, saving the McKean field. On Monday afternoon, May 11, ()f this year a number of wooden stakes appeared on the lawn which we had fought so hard to save. Since nothing had been said to us, we had to inquire about their presence. We were told that a parking lot was em the way, within six months to a year. It seems they weren 1 t going to annoW1ce this to us, rather they would just try to go through with it. I guess they felt that that way they could probably avoid the ob- stacles: that they ran into just three rears before. I feel that this is a questionable way to make an administrative decision. I can't help wonder- if they were just trying to appease us three years ago, figuring that we'd forget all about it in a · coupleof years. Well I just want to say that we haven't forgotten, and we are protesting ft once again, as we will probably do in three more years if necessary. I doubt tbat there will ever l:.Je a time v.vhen students would rather see asphalt than green grass. If we lose this battle and the fi~ld is converted to a parking lot we will be greatly disapp()inted, and perhaps the most disappointing thing will be the way the situation was handled. I don't think that stude:nt administration relatio!ls are as good as they should be, and the shoddy way in whiclh decisions like this are made amd announced only tends to make them worse. Tom Walsl! '87 Bring Beer Back To the Editor: Rumors abound as to the future of the Rathskellar. With the new student center available next year, many of the Rathskellar' s current services will be duplicated. There are alternatives to closing it, however. reopened at night to serve provide these students a place alcoholic beverages (gasp). The to socialize. It would give 21 College should provide an on- Club a location and attract campus location for students more students. Please don't that are of age to gather and raise the liability issue again. socialize. Restricting them to What of the Skellar fund and the their rooms, houses, or (sup- large surpluses that the College posedly) invitation only parties, has run to accompany tuition does not seem practical. It also raises .each year. 'The altUnni does not seem safe to force would overwhelmingly rather students to travel in their cars support the Skellar than see it to off campus drinking close. Let's be reasonable and establishments. discuss this alternative sen- Opening the Skellar in the sibly. David Cope LETTERS Union Makes Video Dear Union College Com- munity: Since last Septem~r, we have been periodically wat- ching you through the electronic eye of a video camera. Over 20 hour-s of Union images fill four boxes magic-markered \orientation \fall \winter and \spring\ in our attic office. One empty box ttUnbled on top is marked ''graduation-college center.\ In a phosphorescently lit room illuminated by a dozen television monitors, electronic devices labeLled \time base corrector\ and \downstream keyer\ passed judgment on the hours of video tape coursing through machines that sounded like the Rathskellar's pinball games. Time defied measurement in this Marshall McLuhan setting. We watched fast-forward through the months of Union life. AI ways mindful of an editing clock that read the video tape in in- crements of a thirtieth of a second, I chewed on the end of my thumb, my wife on her nails, while the editor pushed buttons and turned dials like ''The Wizard of Oz.\ Twenty hours are now less than twenty minutes. Our Union story will be about the length of a .piece on \60' Minutes.\ Here is what they do not tell you on network television. We have not produced a full and fair representation of all that goes on at Union in the course of a year. What we have tried to do is put together a subtle com- mercial about you and your school. In the tv news business, we call them \slices of life\: activities, classes, athletic events and interviews woven together without narration into a provocative electronic story. Starting this July, high school students applying to Union can request a copy of the Union Video to view at home with their parents. High schools and alumni recruiters in every state and Canada will also re!:!eive copies. From our biased viewpoint, the video is com- pelling. We think it will att1·act adventurous applicants who live a long distance away from the college as well as close-in high school students who know little about Union, but want to attend a small highly regarded liberal arts college with a friendly atmosphere and op- portunities for personal initiative. The Admissions Department will most likely arrange for showings of the tape amund campus as soon as it is <!Gm- pleted. In a real sense, you are the Union Video. Your suggesti(lns, patience and assistance made It all gel together. Still, we apologize for invading y~ur privacy, and moreso, for ex- cluding so much of what goes on at the college in the course of a year. However, we are proud of our production and hope you will be as well. In the final analysis, our success will be measured in the numbers aud quality- of applicants to Union in the next few years from a shrinking college-age population. F'inally, we have had a good deal of fW1 making the Union Video. This compliment comes from two somewhat jaded television news reporters who too rarely got to cover a good story. Union is a good story, and in thi~ age of scandal and deceit, an honest one. We will be back up in June to fill up the empty box. Best ofluckto the Class of '87. Allan Eustis (Class of 1970) Molly McKitterick Producers- Union Video There are still some students at Union who remember the \old Skellar.\ Now that there will be an alternative gathering place for W1derage students perhaps the Skellar could be evenings to 21 year old students seems a safe and logical way to Juniors Apply For A Watson Tips for the Theatre There will be an illformational meeting for all students interested in applying for the Watson Fellowship on: Monday, May 25 7:30P.M. Room 1 04 Soc. Sci. To the Editors: The Mountebanks would like to thank everyone who attended a perfom1ance of Godspell. We feel that the production was a success and we hope that you enjoyEd watching it as much as we enj•oyed performing it. In order to make future produc- tions ~n even better experience \Waiting for Godot\ is being perfor!l1ed this week and \No Exit\ is being performed next week, an outline of theatre etiquette follows: 1) Arrive at least fifteen minutes before curtain 2) No flash photography 3} No smoking 4) No food or drink 5) Do not go backstage before or after the performance or during intermission 6) Do not distract the per- formers by talking to neighbors or performers, mal~:ing derogatory remarks, throwing items, unnecessary movement, making faces, or rustling programs 7) In the Nott, do not walk across the stage or to11ch anything on the stage 8) Please remain in your seat during the performance LeAta J aclcson Business Manage1·, Mountebanks If you don't know what the Watson is, come and find out. Suffice it to say that the Thomas J. Watson Foundation wants to give you $11,000 to travel anywhere in the world yoiu want to go, no strings attached. Attention Reunion Workers!!! This year we had two winners (Dan GOrdon and Susan Knoll l. Next year weare shooting f()r four. f:!\ mandatory meeting of al'l student workers will be held Thursday, May 21 at4:30p.m. in 55014. If you are interested but cannot come to the meeting, please contact Prof. Klein, x6056, 1()9 Soc. Sci. study at Unhln This Summer Regist~r Now! Stay on campus this summer and earn extra credits durirJg on.e of our six· week terms, sessions are as fol-lows: Term I: June 15-July 24 Term II: June 17-July 28 Term fll: June22-July 31 Term IV: July 27·August 28 Courses are offered both during the day and in the evening. Tuition per course is: u noergraduate: Science & Engin~ering $700 Liberal Arts $540 Mathematics $565 Six-Year Med. Eel. $1,218 Grduate: Scierwe & Engineering $755 Libera I Arts & Math $595 l.A.M. $575 Teacher's Institute $40() Registration is taking place now at WELLS HOUSE. Drop by for a catalogue or call x 62BSfor more itiformMion. ***'********** \ lf.ilmrh@ ~ armrprl@~~~(!)[il on tile Class of 1991 T-Shirt Design for \Orientation 87\ Theme: ''A NEW TRADITION\ PRIZE FOR WINNER Bring Ideas to Student Activities c/o Jerri Clark

Page U C'()NCORJ)JENSIS, May 21 ,. 1'987 Student Forum Election 'Statements Forum President Junior Trustee . ·- .. >-, •• Wendy Endress Junior Representative to tbe Eoard cf Trustees is a two~year David 'Cop· e JIOSition which is often viewed ~s only a liaison between th.e My name is David Cope and I The system within Which th~ · trliStees and students. JUilior would like to represent you as Student Forum operates is a. : \Trustee is a position on th.e the next Student For11m very limiting one. Because oth~ ' F()rum as well as the Bo;,ird •()£ President. system is so confining, th~ · \J.lrustees. However, as a votin€ Union is about to enter a new Forum often has trouble dealing: · roard member, the positiQn Louis John Wertalik This is a call to the entire Union College student body to go out tomorrow and exercise your right to vote. era. The construction ar{)und with policies which students: ·>demands more than sirnpl:;r campus is almost complete. .generally deem unsuitable,. for . 'translating student opinions tt() My name is Louis John Although the building is nearly example, Gel time, Phone ~\tile Board. It is one in whicl1 Wertalik, and I am r~rming for finished in a physical sense, Policy, etc. As president, I will • illere exists the chance to· Ell· the position of Junior Union should continue tO> .im- guide the Forum so that it mar . press pertinent student C«J!l• Representative to the Board of prove itself in many aspects. be more than an organization ()f : cerns and act on them in order Trustees. This position requires Complacency sholl.ld not set in approval, but one of action. til create the most favorable · an awareness and knowledge of now. Next year the Student ForUJll ' carnpus community for all: the issues, a commitment to a I intend to inslll1e that student will be a major component ill : Board members and students clear representation of student input is taken into accoWlt in all the actual planning and irn- · bok to the Junior Trusteee as a feelings and concerns, and a of the College's decisi()ns plementing of .policy, a pclic~ : representing the Union stud(!nt genuine desire to serve the regarding its future. There. are which will reflect student in- · oody. Therefore the student interests of tile students and the important issues facing Union terests as well as those of tile · filling this position sh<FUld college. I !lave attended Forwn in the next year, ranging from administration. C()mmand the respect of tlte meetings and I know how they proposed curriculum changes to tr.I!Stees, administration, .a11d ate run. I he~ve an acute interest the future of the Skellar. Further along these lines, it .. the students. I believe iritegrity, in and awareness of the issues Student opinions on these issues will be my objective to establish ability, knowledge of current which concern the students and should be carefully consid.ered. a network whereby the students Issues, and a sincere com· the colle~e as a whole. 1 Wl- The Administration remains of this campus can effectively mitment would command this derstand the function of the fairly stable over the years, assert themselves as a viable rEspect. Board of 'l'rut;ees, and I believe while the students (some of force. With this in mind, the Through involvement b that I can serve as an effective them anyway) progress students' interests cannot be Orientation Committee for two liaison between the Tri.lstees through and out of Union, yet it ignored. years~ Gatesmen, as an and. the st11dents. Open com- is the students who sholl.ld executiveofficerofGamrnaFbi munl.cation between the continually mold and shape the . I offer you no pipe-dreams of Beta, and participation in students and the trustees is college. The role of the students massive student involvement or Homecoming and d()rm extremely important, and I feel in the evolution of the college student revolution. The ad~ government I have been 1 can facilitate this com- should never be relegated to a ministration will always be ,I responsible and interacted with :inunicatioll. distant second. there to assert their interests·. . ildministration. I believe I am I am aware ofthe con ems and What I do offer, however, is It : CJ.U3lified and ready for the J t.inior Trustee is a two-year the interests of the student.s at new opportunity to affect th~ : c:ommitment and challenges ()f position, andtheelection is open Union. I also have a good instutitions which govern our · tlle Junior Trustee positioll. to the entire campus-not just rapport with the admmistration living. Elect ·Michael Hiller :. Junior Trustee should be juniors. 1f you have any and faculty, which is essential Student Forum President. '' c:onunitted to the student oody questions or suggestions con- for this job. In my first three ' and to the best future for the cerning any issue, do not years at Union I have often seen : c:ollege. I believe I possess th-Bt hesitate to talk to me; I the students' opinions igne>red. commitment and the abilities to welcome your input. Again, do The Student Forum needs . support it. not forget t() vote! Tomorrow, V.P. F·inanc·e . Jean Matus Fir.st-hand experience is what • I can contribute to the office cf · Vice President of Finance. This year I am the junior representative to the finance · committee. I am aware of a £ew improvements needed in the · finan.cial workings of our student activities. The Vice President of · Finance acts as tlie chairman of the finance committee and your · finandal representati:ve to the · Student Fori.Ull. Thus, it Is a position responsible for the . implementation of changes necessary for a more efficient system; COMMUNICATION- How ~ many of you are involved in a clui:;J fm1ded by student ac- : tivities and have no idea how muc:.h money is in yo11r account? CommUnication is necessary and will be easily accomplished · throagh a more active com- mittee. BUDGETING· A progress rep()rt filled out by each club . before spririg budgeting will be an effective methOd. cf obtaining information needed to budget more efficiently. . FINANCIAL JIANDBOOK- The handbook distributed · to each organization needs to be revised. It was written during the '1}3-'84 school year and has long been outdated. Vote for Jean Matus this ,Friday. shaking up. David Cope for . Please exercise your right to Friday, May 22, ay Library ~P~r~es=id=e=n=t~·~~------------------------------------· 1 : _v_M_e_t_o_m_o~r_ro_w_! ______________ P_l_a_za_. ____ ~--~----~~·~· here at Union and hope to continue my involvement by taking on this responsibility of class representative. By undertaking the respon· sibility of Junior Class Representative I would be a liaisvn between the class of '89, the Student Forum and also the administration. I feel that communication is an important factor for the continuing suc· cess of our class. I enjoy talking to the members of my class and I qm eager to hear your suggestions on making our junior year the best it can be. V P campus and select toe members. Hi! My name is Kristin • • of the '88-'89 committees witb Nelson and I am rwming for the A . dm••n· ••stratl•on the help of the C.O.C. Presently,. position of Junior Class Geri lynn Mackey Hello, my name is Geri Lynn Mackey and I am running for Vice President of Administration of the Student Forum. I feel that in running for a position Uke this it is necessary lv understand the responsibilities of the position, to have the experience to get the job done right, and to have the enthusiasm to make <Jthers want to join in. V1ee President of Administration is a two part office. If elected, I will bE an executive member of the Student Forum and the Chainnan of the Committee on Committees (COC). As a member of the Student F()rum it would be my responsibility to bring any concerns or pmblems tof the student body to the Forum. As Chainnan of the C.O.C. it would be mY responsibility to monitor the operations of the clubs on I am a Junior Representative Oil Representative for the up- the Forum and an active cm:p.ing schml year. I feel this member of the C.O.C. I WI- job is an im:portantone because derstand the workings of the our class, the class of '89, is above two organizations very speeial. completely because of my in- I have bad experience in . volvement. In closing, I feel . dealing Vii1h the student body in that my enthusiastic per- the past. ln high school I was sonality will help to park an president of my class for four interest in others. I would truly consecutive years and also enjoy this position. Thank y()u representative to the student ror your support. Kristin Nelson senate wilich governs the entire school. 1, also was dorm representative at my previous So -phomore ·R· .epresent··at· 1 ve · college, which was triple the size of Union. I am very active Keith Bemis I have epxerience that I em utilize to continue to be ~· competent representative of oUJ' class. lhave been an officer of~· county-wide organization for nearly five years, includinfl nearlytwo years of leadin~ tiJi;s . organization, and I have at· tended New York State aniC! · National Leadership Seminars. Plus, during my freslnnan yea:r here at Union, I hav-e represented our class on .-tile ~tuaent .tc'orum and on the M~nu Committee, which produc:e~ . Jlroductive changes in F()od .Services. . Over my term as Fresbman Class Representative on the .Student Forrun, I have lleen fighting for the rights, con.- cerns,. and ideas of our cla:;s. 1 brought forth your opinio11s t() the Student Forum and fo11ght for your rights when ·the Housing Lottery Proposal carne before us. I · contnued t() represent you with other issues like the recent discussions on the Education Requirement Proposals. r ask you to re-elect m.e as yoW' class representative. 1 have the experience and the know-how to be an effective representative for our · clll$. Vote' for me, Keith Bemis, as Sophomore Class Repre$en· 1ative. With your help, the Class {)f 1990 will be the best represented class on the Student Forum! Peter· Costa I believe that the Student Forum should represent everyone. The Forum has been given the responsibility of helping tG determine Union's future. With all ()f the proposed curriculllrn changes, this job is more important than ever. I feel that I offer a different vieWpoint that would help to round out the Forum's views and make it work better for you. Tomorrow, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, is an important day for the future of our class. Remember to vote for Kristin Nelson for Junior Class Representative for a year you will never forget. Thank you. Chris Pike iii, for those of you that don't know me, my naJ:lle is Chris Pike. The reason I'm rwming for Sophomore Representative is because I feell can make an impact and also represent the needs of our class. I know I have the desire to make olll· class and Union the best they can be and I hope you will ~ive me that chance to make the difference. So,. please, vote for Pike on Friday.

CONCQRDlENSlS, lfay 21, 19!!7_ Page 13 Student Forum Election Statements Jennifer Scully Hi, my· name is Jennifer Scully and I would like to be'one of your Senior Representatives. I would like to be one .of the senior voices heard at the Student Forum meetings. Whether it be discussing matters as complicated and controversial as new curriculum proposals or tuition increases or simple matters of rush rules for Greek organizations or placement of parking lots. I would like the opportunity to speak out on behlf of the senior class. As seniors we have seen the changes at Union over the past three years and we would be wise to expect many more in the coming year. It is clear to me · that in the c«;Jming months communicaticm between the students, the faculty, and the Administration is going to be of the utmost importance. Important in making the ad- justment:;; to gel time and the confusion that will surround the opening of the new student center easier. Important in adjusting to ·the practices and policies of a new Dean of Students, and important in discussing which of the new curriculum proposals is best for all concerned. It will be im- portant for the Student Forum to keep the lines of com- munication open to be a strong and united group and to truly express the views of the student body. I know I can do just th~t. Vote on Friday, May 22, and when you do, vote for Jennifer Scully. Aaron Carrel At every corner people are approaching us in search of our signatures on their petitions- telling us that they, too, are running for an office. Many of us will vote on Friday, but even more will wonder six months from now \Who did We elect?\ and more importantly, ·\What have they done?'' • Last year I had the op- .portunity to serve as your representative to the Student Forum. I had no idea what I was - in for 1 and learned, slowly, that it was easy to bury yourself in the \bureaucratic inef~ fectiveness\ of committees and further subdivisions. Even~ tually, the Forum pulled itself together to form a much more effective group of students. Frustrated, I did not plan to continue with student govern- ment. Yet, recently I became aware -of some other very frustrated but enthusiastic students who· inspired this \campaign\. It is my belief that Senior Representatives too often the role of student government is unfutentionally overlooked and the voice of the • sutdents is distorted. It is exactly because of this that I chose to be involved again. An. effective student goverlliilent does not necessarily oppose Administrative opiuions, but it should. aggressively pursue to . represent feelings of the entire ~udent body. · Michelle A. VanPatten Hi, my name is Michele Van Patten and I am running for Senior Class Representative. I feel that a Senior Class Representative should be aware ·Of ·the students' ·values and should use this position to ef~ fectively present these views. It is a person concerned with student life and involvement and someone who is in- strumental in pojnting out these aspects to the administration. I am running for Senior Class Representative because I feel that I can fulfill all aspects of the position. I am involved in a . multiple of campus activities · including sports, a sorority, and . the fol'matjon of the German Club. R~cently, my in- volvement was expanded through my being selected as Orientation Advisor and Gatesm.an.· I have the experience, student contact, and\ qualities required to fulfill the position as Senior Class Representative. Colleen Adinolfi My name is Colleen Adinolfi and I am running for Senior Class Representative. 'Ibis year I have gained vaulable Student Forum experience having served as Secretary on the Forwn for Winter and Spring terms. I am familiar with and very concerned about the issues affecting studentsJ and I Wl· derstand the vital role ttie Student Forum plays on this campus. As a Resident Advisor at West College this year, I have acted as a liaison between students and administration. I know that conununication is vital in a · position where ·one person represents many. I will be committed to keeping the lines ofcommunication open between member'S of the senior cla$s and the Student Forwn. In addition, I Will make our seni()r year memorable by listenin,g to your suggestions and planning the programs and activities you want. Please cast your vote for Colleen Adinolfi on May 22. , Joanne Me. My name is Joanne McAndrews and I would !Jike to represent the senbr cl~ss on Student Forwn next yeax. As an active Union student, I have participated in many aspect;s of campus life sinee fresbrnan year. Some of thEse activities include Gatesrn~n, news writer for Concordiensis, the Residence Life Comrnitt ee, and NeWillan Club. In additi()n, this . year I am a Resid:tint Advisor and serve on the Student Affairs Co1111cil (SAC). My participation in these various organizations 11as allowed me tv becCJrne familiar with many. aspects of life at Union.Asamember oftheSAC, I have W()rked with the Administration and have learned more a.bout th.e bureaucratic process at Union, as well as learning how to ef· fectively convey student coli· cerns to the College. Wltile writing articles for Concordy I have researched topics sueh a:; the Board of Truste~s meetillgs and Gel Time class schedule. Direct contact withprospectLve students and their parents as a Gatseman required that I keep informed of cutrelit issues, construction updates, amd general information about the College. I am looking forward t() ac- cepting the responsibilities involved in being an effective representative for tile Class mf '88. l would appreciate yo-ur support! Please VOTE on .Friday, :May 22. David Cohen Tomorrow's election win be · one of our last opportunities to shape an important institution · in Union's community: the Student Forum. Look back over . the past three years and ask · yourselves :what the Foru.tn has done for you? How active has the Forum really been? What have our student leaders dcme to effectively convey student opinion? When was the last time the administration took student concerns seriously into ac- count? The implementation of Gel Time, the new curriculwn proposals, and the controversial road and parking construction on campus are a few examples :in which we have been ignored. The Student Forwn must be more than a forum of ideas and · passive resolutions; it must be a place of action. If elected, I promise you active and dedicated representation, to insure that our class is listened to. Since there are no candidates for the positions of V$P. of Academics, and only one candidate for .Junior Representative, the Student Forum will condlltt run-off elections. I want to be your class tepr~sentative • you, the Class of l!J88! DIUllng the past three years here .at Union, I have enjoyed beillg Bn active member of the camiJUS community. As an Exeeutive Member of the Social Committee, President of A.S.lf.E., and a Student Ma:nBger, I have successfully inter\~tcted with both fellow stud-ents and the faculty\ ad:m:inistration. Through pactlcipation in these activities; I lla-ve developed and demon- strated enthusiasm, respon- sibilhy and leadership. These skills . will help me be an ef- fecti'W/e class representative. T'h.ese, and all activities create a type of bond between the students and the faculty· administration. This bond needs to be strengthened. Because of the ctlanges here at Union, both past11nd fpture, we have many concerms and interests which need10t be expressed effectively to tile faculty and ad- ministration. In turn, their ideas and input need to be preseJJted to us. It is the func- tion ()ofthe class representative to listen to your ideas and repre:sent them in the Student Forum. As your class repre:sentative, I will strive to acconnplish this responsibility. Tomo.rr:-ow is the day to show your c01ncern, please come out and 1f()TE. Thank you. ...-----Student Loans-----. The only constant Jn this life is change!! New eligibility requirements and processing procedures will significantly impact the studelilt loan system as you know it. lmporiant items to consider: ELIGffiiLIT¥- ALL stt1dent borrowers must file a Financial Aid Form (F AF) and· submit <!Opies of Federal tax returns to be considered for a Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL). Eligibility is now determined utilizing family income and assets. . LOAN LIMITS- 1) Freslnnen and sophomores are entitled to borrow up to $2625. A!lthe loans carry a 5% origin~tion fee. If you borr01w $2625., your loan check wt.ll be !!lose to $2500. If you borrow $2500, your loan !!lteck will be about $2375. You will have to repay the face amount of the loan, 11o-t the amount you net in the check Remember, all GSL's are disbursed twice a year, so you will receive balfthtJ net amount, twice. '2) Juniors and seni()rs are entitled to borrow up to $4000. Keep in mind that the fee will reduce a $4000 loan to $3750 upon receipt ( disburse<l in two checks). APPLICATlON- If you filed' an F AF that had GSL questiOins on it, you will receive a pre~printed loan applicatiof!-, probably from New Yor~ State: If you have borrowed from New York State m the past, you may use thi~ applicatiOn. If you bave D()t b<Jrrowed from New York State before, obtam a loan ap- plication from a lender in your home state. It is advisable t.o remain with one lender tltrougllout your academic career, for ease of repayment. (New YoN\ State borrower-s m11st 'Stay with the same lender). . AID RECIPIENTS~ If you receive financial ~ssistance from the College, wait until you I'eceive your aid package in late June before submitting your loan applicati()n. Yllu can make a better detnnination of yo11r need to borrow after you know the details of your aid award. CAVEAT: Don't borrow more than you need! These loa11s must be repaid! Union is cormnitted tiQ trying to keep student loan burdens to a manageable lev:el. Every $1.000inGSL's borrowed at 8% interest represeiLtsa $12.14-month repayment (if repaid over 10years). For example, if you b()rrow $10,000 over four years, your m()ntqly repayment w~uld be $120per m()ILth •. beg!nni~g six months after completion of your studies. Be aware of tile unpbcatwns of borrowing Chan~e can c~use confusiop.. Please contact the F_inancial. Aid .Office for further mformation about the Impact of these changes m your situation.

·Page 14 May 21, 1987 l! : THE ARTS Speakers Forum Presents Music and Comedy Night 0• 0 0 ..c: 0.. .£ -~ :.0 ::J a.. Singer Livingston Tay.lor By CELIA MANN alblUlls, ''Livingston Taylor\ and \'Liv\. After touring ex- tensively on his own as well as being the,opening act for Jethro Tull, Linda Ronstadt, and America. He then went back to the stlldio and put out two hit records. The first 1i\o-as \Three Way Mirror'' which featured his biggest llit ''I 'Will Be In Love with You\ and \I'll Come Run11ing'', and the second \Man':;: Best Friend\ that conta ill ed the popular hit ''First Time L()ve.\ Now he is back again ancl playing his music on college earnpuses and the club circuit. have a routine about t:heir great escape from the dryer and how they make their way in the world, inching along the curb\ . An evening of comedy and music with singer-musician Livingston Taylor and comedian Jerry Seinfeld will be held in Memorial Chapel Wednesday, May 27th at 8:00 p.m. The Union College Speakers Fortun is presenting this spectacular event. The tickets are $2.00 and available in the box office. Livinston Taylor is the brother of the one and only James Taylor. He was born in 1950 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. When he was twelve, his brother James taught him how to pick a quitar. At sixteen he moved to Boston to finish his schooling. While in Boston, he built a fine reputation in the coffee houses and Universities. In 1968 he produced his first two Arts News Rock Benefit Rock and Roll Forever Concert at the Coliseum Theatre on JW1e 12 at 8:30. The proceeds got to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial committee for the construction of a memorial to be placed in Lafayette Park in front of Albany City Hall. Three legenr.lary perform~rs, Bo Diddley. Del Shannon and Little Anthony will be performing. The tickets are $14.50 and are on sale at the ColiseUm box office. For information call 785-3393. Arts Show The Schenectady Arts Council will sponsor an art show on Saturday, June 6, from 11 a.rn.-5 p.m., at the Cente1· City Arena, corner of State and Jay. For information call 374-3321. Photo Show Charles Steckler, an Associate Professor at Union, hus a one-person photography exhibit in the Faculty Lounge in Social Sciences. The pictures wen• made in 1980 on a tour he made through Italy. The exhibit is on display through June 30. Cafe Lena This weekend, May 22-23, Caffe Lena celebrates the 27th anniversaryof the coffeehouse which is the oldest continuously running coffeehouse in the coWJtry. The feature artist for the celebration weekend i:s Dave Van Ronk, who was one of the first artists to perform at Caffe Lena in the 60's. He is a well respected performer of folk and traditional blues. The performances will start at 8:30. For reservations and in· formation call 533-0022. .. \Sometimes you see one just lying there-.-it only seems to have made it a coupla blocks.\ Cornectian Jerry Seinfeld has and eye fen the little things in life tnat \Ve laugh about. One of his most popular acts is about what happens when socks disapJJear from the dryer. His comment about the routine, \I Seinfeld started tieveloping his knack for corn~:ldy at the early age of ten. Once be set out on his own he was an immediate success in the New York nightclubs. After several years he made an appeara11ce on the \Tonight Show\ a11d several appearances on \Late Night With David Letterman.\ He says his material is catered to the type of audience and as he comments \Every per- formance is a cust()m job.\ It will be exciting to see what he has prepared for the Union College audience. C.RQSSGATES MALL THEATER SCHEDULE MOVIE Secret of My Success Blind Date Project X Gardens of Stone Meatballs 3 The Gate Hot Pursuit Creepshov; 2 Ish tar LethaJ Weapon Earnes.1 Goes to Camp Chipnunk Adventure Beverlv Hills Cop 2 456-5677 PG13 PG13 PG A A PG13 PG13 A PG13 A PG G A RATING 1:00 4:15 1:55 4:45 1:40 4:20 1:30 4:10 1:25 4:25 12:40 3:20 1:35 4:00 12:50 3:40 12:20 3:15 1:10 4:05 12:25 3:30 12:40 3:30 TIME$ 7:05 9:55 7:10 9:30 7:20 10:15 7:00 9:50 6:35 9:10 7:40 10:2() 6:40 9:15 6:20 9:00 6:55 9:45 6:15 8:50 7:45 9:25 4:45 6:45 9:25 FRI. SAT. 12:15 12:10 12:25 12:10 11:15 12:20 11:20 11:05 12:15 11:10 12:30 12:05 J F • • R • azz · . u·s1on 1-n · . ev1ew By E_RIC GARDNER While on my way to Old Chapel several Tuesdays ago, I was not very much enthused about seeing a !(fusion\ guitarist. Being an avid fan of classic jazz and some styles of rock, I am not a follower of \fusion\. Seeing, however, that this free concert was one of the few culturalevents Union has to offer I decided to take ad- vantage of i~. From the moment I walked into Old Chapel I was captivated by Mike Smiarowski's Speed and fluidity with Which he played the guitar. I am a jazz disc jockey at WRUC and have seen many live performances in Manhattan including Mil~s Davis., Dizzy Gillespie and Joe Pass. I have . ob~erved many renowned guitarists and could confidently say Stniarowski cotild play with them ail. Smiarowski's technique combined with the emotion with which he played are a rarity. My attention was also drawn to the various shifts in styles which he displayed. The fast- paced dazzling guitar work of · \Spanish-Mexican Fantasy\ taken from his album entitled \Fusion\, is similar to the style of AI DiMeola's record called \Gypsy\. , Smiarowski' s piece, which also contains some melDdic passages, brilliantly displays his versatility when compared with the cut following it on the same album. This tune entitled \Mellow\ exemplifies Smiarowski's ability to cap- tivate the attention of the listener through the mood of his music. Rod Serling's television show \The Twilight Zone\ inspired Smiarowski's next piece which he named \Atmospheric Illusions\. This piece again showed his ver- satility in that it began with some intricate fast-paced guitar work, developed into slow blues and then returned to the upbeat tempo~ His set ·ktso included some funk which he worked wj.tQ-his bass player Larry Manno. 'During the performance, Smiarowski dropped a .brief p~ssage from Deep Purple's \Smoke on the Water\ and I ·could not help but reflect on his abilities ~ompared with the majority of rock guitarists~ As is the case with most jazz musicians, there is no com- parison. The energy and en- thusiasm which ·Mike Smiarowski displayed .are rare in these days of popular bands who tend to play the same songs year after year. The energy with which Mike played was felt by all who were at Old Chapel on the night of April 28. As Mike Smiarowski stated \the Union College crowd was the most receptive audience I've ever \The ·energy and enthusiasm, which Mike Smi.arowski displayed are rare in these days of popular bands who tend to play the same songs year after year.\ performed before. I came off the stage exhilarated\ and I k-now I left Old Chapel exhilarated. Smiarowski 1;1nd his band (Larry Manno on bass and Marty Raymondo on drums) have performed with such jazz greats as Al DiMeola and Maynard Ferguson. The band is based in Buffalo, NY ,and has performed at R.P.I., Syracuse, Oswego and as far away as Detroit. Currently, the band is looking for ~ major; recording contract; in the meantime, the band is receiving airtime on Schnectady public television Channel 16 and airplay on WCDB (SUNY Albany) and WRUC. The Union College concert will air on WRUC next Tuesday night. NEW 8.97 Some New Faces in faithfuls. No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 8.97 Programming Notes Lable A&M Sire I.R.S Sire ~nigma Chrysali Caroline -Sad that you missed Mike Smiarowski's concert? Don't fret! We will be airing the whole thi'ng Tuesday, May 26 starting at 1 :00 p.m. -Don't hold y.our breath until the New 8.97. It'll be her.e soon enough (next Tuesday starting at 6:00p.m.) -Having trouble waking up Thursday & Friday mornings? Tune in to WRUC for a little help. Broadcasts start at 7:00 a.m. Thrown together by , Bill Doid ' \ ev pe re an int yo .thl fol ·G~ 0 0 m: wt ha w~: Wl to te1 co B~ CO' ..c: 0. c: ro E ~ u ::J (/) ro '- ..... pe trE ga An m: en Spi r pu ml of Mi thE re; au on sor for Go bu mi No ere ale pa su; of Sh ou1 the w~ en an

·Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 THE ARTS Speakers Forum Presents Music and Comedy Night Cl) 0 0 .c 0.. a I~ ::0 :::J a.. Singer Livingston Taylor Comedian Jerry Seinfeld By CELIA MANN albums, \Livingston Taylor\ have a routine about their great and \Liv\. After touring ex~ escape fr01n the dryer and how An evening of comedy and music with singer-musician Livingsten Taylor and comedian Jerry Seinfeld will be held in Memorial Chapel Wednesday, May 27th at 8:00 p.m. The Union College Speakers Forwn is presenting this spectacular event. The tickets are $2.00 and available in the box office. Livinston Taylor is the brother of the one and only James Taylor. He was born in 1950 in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. When he was twelve, his brother James taught him hew to pick a quitar. At sixteen he moved to Boston to finish his schooling. While in Boston, be built a fine reputation in the coffee houses and Universities. In 1968 he produced his first two Arts News Rock Benefit Rock and Roll Forever Concert at the Coliseum Theatre on June 12 at 8:30. The proceeds got to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial committee for the construction of a memorial to be placed in Lafayette Park in front of Albany City Hall. Three legenrJ.ary performers, Bo Diddley. Del Shannon and Little Anthony will be performing. The tickets are $14.50 and are on sale at the Coliseum box office. For informo.tion call 785-3393. Arts Show The Schenectady Arts Council will sponsor an art show on Saturday, June 6, trom 11 a.m.-5 p.m., at the Center City Arena, corner of State and Jay. For information call 374-3321. Photo Show Charles Steckler, an Associate Professor at Union, has a one-person photography exhibit in the Faculty Lounge in Social Sciences. The pictures were made in 1980 on a tour he madl' through Italy. The exhibit is on display through June 30. Cafe Lena This weekend, May 22-23, Caffe Lena celebrates the 27th anniversaryof the coffeehouse which is the oldest continuously running coffeehouse in the country. The feature artist for the celebration weekend is Dave Van Ronk, who was one of the first artists to perform at Caffe Lena in the 60's. He is a well respected performer of folk and traditional blues. The performances will start at 8:30. For reservations and in- . formation call 583..0022. d ·~~~~Z!GE'~F'JiW')d..,;:. tensively on his own as well as they make their way in the being the opening act for Jethro world, inching along the curi:>\ . Tull, Linda Ronstadt, and America. He then went back to the studio and put out two hit records. The first was ''Three Way Mirror\ which featured his biggest hit \I 'Will Be In Love with You\ and \I'll Come Running'·, and the second \Man's Best Friend\ that contained the popular hit \First Time Love.\ Now he is back again and playrng his music on college campuses and the club circuit. .. ''Sometimes you see one just lying there-it only seems to have made it a coupla blocks.\ Comedian Jerry Seinfeld has and eye for the little things in life that we laugh about. One of his most popular acts is about what happens when socks disappear from the dryer. His comment about the routine, \I Seinfeld started developing his knack for comedy at the early age of ten. Once he set out on his OMl he was an immediate success in the New York nightclubs. After several years he made an appearance on the \Tonight Show\ and several appearances on \Late Night With David Letterman.\ He says his material is catered to the type of audience and as he comments ''Every per- formance is a custom job.\ It will be exciting to see what he bas prepared for the Union College audience. CROSSGATES MALL THEATER SCHEDULE MOVIE Secret of My Success Blind Date Project X Gardens of Stone Meatballs 3 The Gate Hot Pursuit Creepshow 2 Ish tar Lethal Weapon Earnest Goes to Camp Chipmunk Adventure Beverly Hills Cop 2 456-5677 PG13 PG13 PG R R PG13 PG13 R PG13 R PG G R RATING 1:00 4:15 1:55 4:45 1:40 4:20 1:30 4:10 1:25 4:25 12:40 3:20 1:35 4:00 12:50 3:40 12:20 3:15 1:10 4:05 12:25 3:30 12:40 3:30 TIMES 7:05 9:55 7:10 9:30 7:20 10:15 7:00 9:50 6:35 9:10 7:40 10:20 6:40 9.15 6:20 9.00 6:55 9:45 6:15 8:50 7:45 9:25 4:45 6:45 9:35 FRI. SAT. 12:15 12:10 12:25 12:10 11:15 12:20 11:20 11:05 12:15 11:10 12:30 12:05 By ERIC GARDNER While on my way to Old Chapel several Tuesdays ago~ I was not very much enthus~d about seeing a \fusil()n\ guitarist. Being an avid faiJ, of classic jazz and some style:s of rock, I am not a follower of \fusion\. Seeing, however, tllat this free concert was one <if fhe few cultural events Union has to offer I decided to take !ld- vantage of it. From the morn~nt I walked into Old Chapel I -w.as captivated by J\l],ke Smiarowski's speed and fluilfll1y with which he played the gui'i;ar. I am a jazz disc jockey at WRUC and have seen many live performances in Manhattan including Miles Davis, Diz2y Gillespie and Joe Pass. I h.ave observed many renowllled guitarists and could confide11tly say Smiarowski could play \\Yitll them all. Smiarowski 's technique combined with the emotion with which he played are a rarity. My attention was also drawn to the various shifts in stylEs which he displayed. The fCJst- paced dazzling guitar work ()f \Spanish-Mexican Fantasy\ taken from his album entitlecl \Fusion\, is similar to the style of AI DiMeola's record callecl \Gypsy\. Smiarowski's piec-e. which also contains so me melodic passages, brilliantly displays his versatility wllen compared with the cut followillg it on the same albwn. This tme entitled \Mellow\ exemplifies Srniarowski's ability to cap- tivate the attention of the listener through the mood of his music. Rod Serling's televisbn show \The Twilight Zo11e\ inspired Smiarowski's n-eKt piece which he named \Atmospheric Illusions\. T'his piece again showed his ver· satility in that it began wit.h some intricate fast-paced guit11r work, developed into slow blues and then returned to the upb-eat I tempo. His set aLsD included some fWlk which 'lle worked wj.tl}- -his bass player Larry Manno. During the pe:rformance, Smiarows'ki dropp-e!i a brief passage from Deepo Purple's \Smoke on the WatEr\ and I could not llelp but rEflect on his abilities compared with the majority of rock guitarists. As is the case with rnost jazz musicians, there is no com- parison. The energy and en- thusiasm which ·Mike Smiarowski displayed are rare in these days of popt:!lar bands who tend to play the same songs year after year. 'l11le energy with whic!J Mike .pla:yed was felt by all who were at ()I'd Chapel on the night of April 28. As Mike Smiarowski stated \the Union College crowd was tbe most receptive audience I've ever \The energ)' and enthusiasm whi ell Mike Smiarowski displayed are rare in tb.ese days of popular bands who tend t() play tlte same songs yEar after year.\ --~~~~~~--·~----- performeli before_ I came off the stage exhilar-ated'' and I know I left Old Chapel exhilarated. Smiarowski and ]lis band (Larry Manno on bass and Marty Raymondo on drums) have performed with such jazz greats as Al Dil\1-Eola and Maynard Fergus()n. 111e band is based in Buffalo, N? and has performed at R.P.I., Syracuse, Oswego and as fal' a way as Detroit. Currently, th.e band is looking for a major recording contract; in the rne.:antime, the band is receiving airtime on Schnectady public television Channel 16 and CJi:rplay on WCDB (SUNY Albany) and WRUC. The UniC)n College concert will air on WVEUC next Tuesday night. NEW 8.97 Some New Faces in fait.hfuls. No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 8.97 Programming Notes Lable A&M Sire I.R.S Sire Enigma Chrysali Caroline -Sad that you missed W1ike Smiarowski's concert 1 Don't fret! We will be airing th~ whole thing Tuesday. Nay 26 starting at 1 :00 p.m. -Don't hold your breath tJfltil the New 8.97. It'll be here soon enough (next Tuesday starting at 6:00p.m.) -Having trouble waking ll.lP Thursday & Friday mornings? Tune in to WRUC for a li tt!r: help. Broadcasts start at 7:00 a.m. Thrown together by Bill Doid ,. ji f. ) I ev pe re an in I yo th· foJ l G< m~ wt ha w~ WJ to te1 co B~ co 0 ..... 0 ..c 0. c al E ~ {.) :::J U) al -= pe tl'E ga An ffil en Spt . pu ffil of Mi thE re. au on sor for Go bu mi No cr< ale pa su: of Sh ou1 the we: en an

' \ - r I I ' CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 Page 15 :· • • ' • .JFF, \ ~'' '•! :'' ! •'• -• .-,•- • ~ • \•' ! • •'' •, < • ' THE ARTS GodspeUatTheNott Jim and Buddy at The Movies By RACHELSEIGAL Why wotild any Union College· event sell out? Why wollld people call days in advance to resene seats? Why would anyQ!le put themselves . on a11 incredi;bly long waiting list? If you di~ 't, you missed one of the most exciting snows .per- formed here in recent history. Umler the direction of R.andi · Gc;~ldstein, Mounteb!!nks 0 0 manafted to put on a show in which· everyone quite simply had fun. The traditional play was updated with the Oprah Winfr<ey Show discussing ways to get to heaven. Thi~ was in· terr1.1pted by a very hwn()rous commercial message f'Tom Bartles and James wine coolers. Then, later in the .c 0. c: ro E ~ u ::1 (/) ro '- ..... By JIM MacLAUGIILIN h1.111'lllled even a we13k later~ was Michael's and Bruce Osler's soft shoe tO: \All for the Best\. Who knew the two of them coUld dance'? -, The motion picture industry, After the intermission, the since it's beginnings, has crowd was treated to one ()f the always received more than it's funniest J»rtions of tbe show. I .snare of press coverage and Betsy Gillespie (red) had general conversation. everyone in hysterics with her Moviemaking and it's principle personal interpretation of \Turn characters; stars, d.h ... ectors, Back, 0 Man.'' She really in- and producers, have long volved the·audienee (or at ieast provided fans. and critks' with the male portion), and had hours worth of debatable more than a few people red material. However, this year a enough to match her dress! The .good deal of film argument has prettiest song in the show was 'been centered not on current performed by Andrea Mobilio films, but on. moVies cf old. In (green) and Melissa Bloom this day and age, where .a large (yelloW). The two com- portion of functional living is plemented each other perfectly made possible by computer, it on \By My Side!' All of the , was only a matter of time musical n ua1bers were ac- ' before the microchip became a companied' by band members part -of filmaking. In advancing the technology of new movies, I the computer can .perform miracles in such dimensions as Special effects. But tile com- pllterhas made a bigger impact : ill it's use to add color to old ' black & White films. The eoloring of classic blaek & white movies has touched off a legal debate over whether someone has the right to alter an ()riginal work of art. them. Turner believes that in coloring the old films, they become more accessible for television viewing. Hollywood filmakers have vehemently protested. the coloring. of their movies, claiming that such is tan- tamount to vandalism. . The argument between Hollywood and Tw-ner has now moved before· Congress with such luminaries as Woody Allen and Ging.er Rogers speaking before the House. The filmakers are seeking a ruling from Congress to stop the colorization, trying for protection under copyright laws. Claiming that their movies are \original works of art\ the fihnakers want them preserved and shown in original black & white form. reviewer has seen, the colors seem almost nauseating. In \Born On the Fourth of July\ the classic starring James Cagney as George Cuhan, the star was colored in a polyester blue suit that assaulted the eyes. Further, the backgrotmds seemed to be ignored in coloring, a mixture of washed- out yellows and browns that detract from the foregound. In the colorized version of ''Topper'' starring Cary Grant, the colo1s were uneven and switching, pulling the viewers attention away from the action. Also, the new color versions pay almost U() attention to the lighting and shadowing the original filmmakers in- corporate<! .. Mike Hiller and Bruce Osler in God spell The main protagonist in the battle is Ted Turner, owner of the Atlanta based cable TV ''superstation\ WTBS. TW'ner recently purchased the rights to Film producers and directors such as Frank C&;\pra, John Huston and Orson Welles Were masters at using light and dark Shadings to create atmosphere for their works. The movies were made in black & white, using charioscura to bring the movies to the big screen of the moviehouse. When the mQvies were filmed, they were not intended to be shown on television. Television, with it's fuzzy grays ami murky blacks, ruins a lot of the lighting and shading effects. But, the meditun is the message, and the movies were not made for the small screen medium. Ted Turner, in authorizing the CQloring, does so under the belief that the color allows the movies to be more enjoyable on TV. However, the coloring makes the mQvies almost un- watchable. Of the few that this One hopes that Capitol Hill will assert some judgment and pass a ruling protecting the mms from the colorization process. There is a legal-moral tightrope to be walked on the issue, over what rights does an owner have over another persons work. Turner does own the rights to the MGM library outright, but does that allow him to alter the art work. For example, if you payed millions of dollars for Van Gogh's \Starry Starry Night\ would you re-paint the colors you didn't lika. If you purchased the rights to Beatles song catalogue, would you rewrite \Yesterday\. One hopes not. performance, the audience was treated to everyone's favorite game show-Wheel of Fortune. Andy Livernois (light l>Iue) made a terrific Pat Sajak as he encolll'aged the contestants to spell the word \two''. The cast of ten were ve1y well put ttOgether and made the musical numbers the highlight of tne play for the audience. Michael Hiller, as Jesus, tied the p!Cly together by making a real effort to include the audience in what was occu:ring on stage. The most familiar song, ••nay by Day,\ was per- forme<! by freShman, Karen Goos(J>ink). She did a great jol>, but tile audience was not per- mitted to sit back and enjoy it. No, tlte actors flew up int() the crowd to encourage clapping alc:mg. Those reluctant to participate were quickly per- suadec·. Perhaps the best singer of the group, Leslie Shamilzadeh (orange), did an outstanding rendition of \Bless the Lord.;, Her wide voice range was o11e of the best parts of the entire play. A favorite number, and me that keeps getting Jennifer Lyon, , Kevin ~ the entire MGM film library, McDonald, Mare Howard and · and set to coloring a number of Becky Thayer who started classic black & white works working with the cast ollly a : · such as \It's A Wonder-fill Life'', week before the play opened. ''The Maltese Falct>n .,, , and They added a great deal to the ''Born On the Fourth of July\. show. (The barijo in All for the Claiming that because he owns Best\ was especially good!! ) tlle rights to the movie~, Turner Some·of the most memorable, defends his coloring by saying non-musical. portions of the he can do What he wislles with sho~ included angel Winston ,. ..... -...- .. ..------.------------------------• Bliss (dark blue) flitting about the stage to deliver someone to heaven. Steve Brown (purple) did a remarkably easy looking job of being a bratty kid during a \s.ehool\ performance. (Steve, by tile way, can be seen this week at the Nott in \Waiting for Godot\.) Finally, the most w.oving performance of the sho\lV has to belo11g to Michael Hiller. He did sU<!h a convincing job of dying t:bat he literally !tad ·the audience weeping in their seats. The entire cast and crew should be congratulated for putting together one of the most successful shows in Union history. If y()U missed Godspell, you missed a great play. May 22 On CamJlus:: • ·entngs Outdoor elonceJ:t Movies - Sting's Bring on the Night at 9 p.m .• Tapdng He~iii(St.o~Making Sense at 11 p~m. They will be shown m HUOl1l'' Oil'tfte 23rtt and2~th. t Ma:y 2~ . Oiii::;\Qiawj,u~~ _,;-~&.~~~an_4;Daye Van :&onk at Caffe Lena in Saratoga. He will also .. \ be tn¢re tile 23m - \'as:· _ Moyi~\\~Qettmm ~ihn~ Per Schri.tt vom;•p/A Step. from the Right - ,i~uthiwill ~~at7'!~m.,,in I:fU~14. \; '·· · ··the Blackhem·cs at 'are $15.00 For more ' m and Botani<!al at5;~>.m. For Cam,pus M.ovies Tl1iJ: ·week **** campus~~fhec!~~1:'vi~~ tf:o ~ii~tte~d~:si~~!c:!~~~!~~~,t~~~~~~t in.years. . · . : . I I I I I I ~~~ ~~- (;JJ r.r.~ · · o , \lim 1 iLIJir..\fJ:vToJ l~8·~w·~ **** BRING ON THE NIGHT ••. Starring Sting of the Policet the\J}lovie sf?~ws the makings of the 'Dream of the Blue Turtles' album and music. Detailing the make-up and construction of t~e ~lue Turtles, the ensemb~e that backed up ~he album, the film is both fascmattng and funny. It contains some great live music, ~specially Brandford Marsalis' version of 'Meet the Flintstones'. . '·\~·' , ... _,._,.. :··.::},,:;-.~:':~:::~·.-:~:;!,...:-.· ···-~:-:,_.~,,.-~,::=:,_._ .. ;:'·::·:;,. .. ---~::~ 'e;;:, ·\· . attta· · ·· · .. · this nrovie is . . .. .. . ma .e. t atl!QW viiwer to fully ex~ u~~~u10_ co_ n_ c·.·.e .. rt'. wi. __ th ... ·.P·····U··· t .. a·n.·ty .•. o .. ·.f t~e usual.g_auche ~o.ne_._.E;.rt · ·· · i$:'$lllf)ef@\Hl blS· Ji)ig ··· e J:,and lS qmte m~ru~n it ntk•~en~er stage o ·· . · to play some Tom . ·-:. ·'----~.- . ·-- _;.. -· The movies will· be presented \ -·. ~ • : ' ... 4• . ···· outdoors , 001 .!friday, . May; 22 at 9 and. lL . ·

.i CONCORD!ENSIS~ May 21, 1987 Page 15 Gods pell at The Nott 0 ..... By-RACHEL SEIGAL Why would any Union College event sell out? Why would people call days in advance to reserve seats? Why would anyone put themselves on an incredibly long waiting list? If you didn't, you missed one of the most exciting shows per- formed here in recent history. Under the direction of Randi Goldstein, Moun.tebqnks managed to put on a show in which everyone quite simply had fun. The traditional play was updated with the Oprah Winfrey Show discussing ways to get to heaven. This was in- terrupted by a very humorous commercial message from Bartles and James wine coolers. Then, later in the 0 ..c 0. c: Cl! E ~ (.) ::J C1) Cll -= h1l!ll1l1ed even a week later, was Michael's and Bruce Osler's soft shoe to \All for the Best\. Who knew the two of them could dance? After the intermission, the crowd was treated to one ·of the funniest portions of the show. Betsy Gillespie (red) had everyone in hysterics with her personal interpretation of ''Turn Back, 0 Man.\ She really in- volved the audience (or at least the male portion), and had more than a few people red em ugh to match her dress! The prettiest song in the show was performed by Andrea Mobilio (green) and Melissa Bloom (yeUow). The two com- plemented each other perfectly on \By My Side.\ All of the masical numbers were ac- · companied by band members Mike Hiller and Bruce Osier in Godspell performance, the audience was treated to everyone's favorite game show-Wheel of Fortune. Andy Livernois (light blue) made a terrific Pat Sajak as he en co urag.ed the contestants to spell the word \two\. The cast of ten were very well put together and made the musical numbers the highlight of the play for the audience. Michael Hiller, as Jesus, tied the play together by making a real effort to include the audience in what was occuring on stage. The most familiar song, \'Day by Day,\ was per- formed by freshman, Karen Goos(pink). She did a great job, but the audience was not per- mitted to sit back and enjoy it. No, the actors flew up into the crowd to encourage clapping along. T!lose reluctant to participate were quickly per- suaded. Perhaps the best singer of the group, Leslie Sharnilzadeh (orange) , did an outstanding rendition of \Bless the Lord.\ Her wide voice range was one of the best parts of the entire play. A favorite number, and one that keeps getting Jennifer Lyon, Kevin McDonald, Marc Howard and Becky Thayer who sta.rted working with the cast only a week before the play opened. They added a great deal to the show. (The banjo in All for the Best\ was especially good!!) S.ome of the most memorable, non-musical _ portions of the shepw included angel Winston Bliss (dark blue) flitting about the stage to deliver someone to heaven. Steve Brown (purple) did a remarkably easy lo()king job of being a bratty kid during a ''school\ performance. (Steve, by the way, can be seen this week at the Nott in \Waiting for Godot\.) Finally, the most moving performance of the show has to belong to Michael Hiller. He did such a convincing job of dying that he literally had the audience weeping in their seats. T'he entire cast and crew sh()uld be congratulated for putting together one of the most successful shows in Union history. If you missed Godspell, you missed a great play. ~tCABARE1t ' i I I : I **** THE ARTS Jim and Budl(y at The Movies By JU\1: MacLAUGHLIN The motion picture industry, since it's beginnings, has always received more than it's share of press coverage and g en e r a l c o n v e r sat ion . Moviemaking and it's JlDlnciple characters; stars, directors, and producers, have long provided fans and criti~s· with hours worth of deblatable material. However, this year a good deal of film argumEnt has been centered not on c11rrent films, but on movies o£ old. In this day and age, where ~ large portion ,of functional li~ing is made possible by compi!ter, it was only a matter of time before the microchip l>ecame a part of fllmaking. In adv-ancing the technology of new ,movies, the computer can perform miracles in such dimensions as special effects. But t1Je com- puter has made a bigger iinpact in ies use to add color to old black & white films. The coloring of classic black:& white movies has touched off ~ legal debate over whether s()meone has the right to alter an ()riginal work of art. The main protagonist in the battle is Ted Turner, o.vwner of the Atlanta based cable TV \superstation\, WTBS. \Turner recently purchased the Fights to the entire MG M film lil>rary, and set to coloring a number of classic black & whitE! works such as \It's A Wonderful Life\ \The Maltese Falcon\\, and \Born On the Fourth of July\. Claiming that because he owns the rights to the movies, 1'urner defends his coloring b:y saying he can do what he wislles with them. Turner believes that in coloring the old films, they become more accessible for television viewi:ng, Hollywood filrnakers have vehemently protested the coloring of their movies, claiming that such is tan- tamount to vandalism. The argument between Hollywood and Turner has now moved before Congress with s11ch luminaries as Vi/O{)dy Allen and Ginger Rogers speaking before the House. The filmakers are seeking a ruling; from Congress to stop the col()rization, trying for protection under copyright laws. Claimiag that their movies are \original works of art\ the fihnakers want them preserved and shown in original black & white fc)lJn. Film producers and directors such as Frank Capra, J()·bn Huston and Orson Welles were masters at using light and dark shadings to create atmosphere for their works. The movies were made in black & white, using charioscura to bring the movies to the big screen of .the moviehouse. When the movies were filmed, they were not intended to be shown on television. Television, with it's fuzzy grays and murky blacks, ruins a lot of the lighting and shading effects. But, the medium is the message, and the movies were not made for the small screen medium. Ted Turner, in authorizing t:he coloring, does s.o under the belief that the c=olor allows the movies to be more enjoyable on TV. However, the coloring makes the movies almost un- watchable. Of the few that this reviewer has seen, the colors seem almost nauseating. In \Born On the F'()urth of July\ the classic starring James Cagney as George Cuhan, the star was colored in a polyester bllle suit that assaulted the eyes. Further, tfie backgrounds s-eemed to be ignored in c<Jloring, a minure of washed- out yellows and browns that detract from the foregoun.d. In the colorized version of \Topper\ starring Cary Grant, the colors were uneven and switching, pulli:ng the viewers attention away from the action. Also, the new co]()r versions pay almost no attention to the lighting and shadowing the original fillnmakers in- corporated. One hopes tllat Capitol Hill will assert some judgment and pass a ruling protecting the films from the colorization pr()cess. There is a legal-moral tightrope to be walked on the issue, over what rights does an owner have over another persons work. Turner does own tile rights to the MGM library outright, but does that allow him to alter the art work. For e&ample, if you payed millions of dollars for Van Gogh's \Starry Starry Night\ would yo11 re-paint the colors you didn't likE~. If you purchased the rights to Beatles song catalogue, would you rewrite \Yesterday\. O!le hopes not. Arts Happenings May 22 On Camp us: Outdoor Concert M-<>vies • Sting\s Bring on the Night at 9 p.m.. T~king Heads' Stop M3king Se11se at ll p.m. They will be shown in HU014 on the 231d and 24th. May 22 Off Campons: Musician- Dave Van Ronkat Caffe Lena in Saratoga. He will also be there the 23rd. May 2:6 On Catllp,us: Movie~~German Film, Der Schritt vom Wege/A Step from the Right Path will show at 7 p.m. in HU()l4. May 27 Off Calllp-us: Concert· REO Speedwagon with Joan lett and the Blackhearts at Glens Falls Civic Center at 7:30p.m. Tickets are $15.0() For more information ca11798~02{)2. May 29 On Camp~us: CAMP UNION OUTDOOR MO'VIES- t() be ann(}unced. May 30 Off Camp- us: NY State Museum oour of the Brooklyn Museum and B<>tanical Garden. The tour leaves at 7 p.m. and returns- at 6 p.m. For information call4'74-5801. ;·.:. ... Campus Movies This: Week week, C()llrtesy of the Fizhugh Ludlow Day celebration, the Uni01. campus will be a})Je to view two of the better musk docwnentaries to come out in years. BRING ON THE NIGHT ••• Starring Sting of the Police) the -movie shows the makings of the 'Dream of the Blue Tlll'tles' .alb1.1m and music. Detailing the make-up and construction of the Blue Tu1tles, the ensemble that backed up the album, the film is both fascinating and funny. It contains some great live music, Qspeciall~ Brandford Marsalis\ version of 'Meet the Flintstones'. STOP MAKING SENSE .•• Directed by Jonathan 0€1nme, this movie is perhaps the best ~oncert movie ever made. It altows the viewer t() fully ex- perience ~ Talki11g ~eads COD;Cert, witll!JUt .any. of t~e usual gauche ~onc~rt foota~e chches. David Byrne ts superb m hts b1g su1t, and the band ts qmte surprising on its own when it takes center stage on its own to play si>me Tom Tom Club material. . · The movies will be presented outdoors . on Friday, May 22 at 9 and 11.

11 'Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, May 21., 1987 PERSONALS Honey Good luck! But I hope CIS : Patty you said you won't need it. Lo'!e : --over 31 flavors to choose E- Personals: always, from- Happy 8 months! Looking forward to many more with yoi.i. To all briddgge painters: Great job and admirable per- severance. To the girl who had her skirt +~Jslfs+ at the Delta Cafe. Nice view. 'Michael Best of luck tomorrow. You deserve it. Thanks again for Friday night - Saturday morning. I·feel much better. -R.S. 1D THE BAND: You guys are amazing! Godspell was a blast - let's jam sometime! And yes I have RHY.I'HM! LoveJen 'lbthe Godspell Cast: You guys bring a new meaning to the term \heavenly.\ Thanks for being you! Ah what memories! Love, Jen llurnpty ... Welcome back! We missed you, Love Dwnpty and the Wall 2Z Thank you for an outrageous :year! I never thought that we <!ould have this much fun. Thanks for sharing my hopes e1nd for being there When things <lidn't always work out. You are tile epitome of friendship. Loveya, Kath Hey you in the K-Mart Pdyester Pants This weekend will be amazing (You'll feel right at home without being able to shower!) D<>n't forget the ECONOMY P .ACK. You never know what might happen! -KC Hey ABC News Watcher What are Sam's suggestions? (Don't take a tour of the h()use!?) Kevin. Thanx to you the term security officer has taken on a nEW meaning for me. I am forever in your custody-Pam- llonikel TV ACROSS 1 Europeans 5 Friday's rank: ~bbr. 8 Burn 12 Mala- 13 Oo garden work 14 Marie Wilson 15 -,a bone ... 16 Before carte or mode 17 Claim: slang 18 Minnie Pearl's uncle 2() Singer Avalon 2:2 Small crow 24 \- Our Guest\ 25 Samantha on \Gimme a Break\ 3<l Baseball's Berra 34 Actress Arden 3.5 Hannibal Smith's group DOWN Dear Val: You really know h11wr to turn me on. Love Freddy The Eight ball: Watcb out for Episode 2 \The Return of Coyote Ugly.'' Dear Sis: You really know how to use those \J\ hands. LQvoe: . The Goy from Illinois Space: I'm really sorry it happened twice. I'm really sorry it happened twice. Mullowitz Jag-Dish, Krat: We really think you should work at the Charthouse tl:lis summer. You can live at Olll'\ house!! Think about it. The Woo's Happy 2nd Paula and Ken. Love Car a. Stay away Rummy Heads -The Girls Zagnuts and Pom-Pome Big ones! .X3/4-?- Billy Jim and Dave A PSI U threesome - Congratulations almost .•. l think! Love Mom Pam Koostas Do you feel the need?! -concerned ABC news-wat- chers Elsie · -The search continues- We're too picky- Men are slime- Oh he's kinda cute- What a geek are you out of yolll'\ mind?- Did you see his friend?- Third Floor Richmond :Still looking for a few good men. The MareS ClmiJ 28 Meadow 37 Afternoon social 3:8 \Soap'' family 4() Reggie on \Fame\ 42 ID lor Hartman 44 Stir ·1 Indo-Chinese people· 29 Tibetan monk 31 Hall of Farner, Mel 45 Phil or Troy S.O \Mr. Belvedere\ star ·&4 To me: Fr. !>5 Paulsen or ()'Brien !>7 Burl- !>~ French city !>9 Mao - tung &0 Examination 61 Mystery writer, Gardner ·&2 Popeye's Olive 53 Pony up 2 \Dr. Zhivago\ character 3 OPEC member 4 He's Fish 5 - Na Na 6 Arnie's game 7 Rend 8 Mr. Poi tier 9 He's Ponch 10 Both: comb. form 11 Level 19 Race place 21 Monogram for Burrows 23 \Life - Fattier\ 25 Allow 26 Another Gardner 27 Steep flax 32 Earth: comb. form 33 Author Fleming 36 Skirt length 39 Ms. May 41 Nabokov's book 43 Kuzak on \L.A. Law'': init. 45 Fish 46 Mr. Sharif 47 Christmas carol 48 \-- Paar\ · 49 Not difficult 51 All tied up 52 Aerie 53 Italian city 56 -Aviv -ARTIE PEEP · -8eerns like old times I love y()u- A · having you to talk with ... ... walk with ... do shots of SCHNAPPS with ... ARTIE I lost. a purple stx lacrosse stlck and a brine soccer ball at the D- Phi suitcase party. Please return I{ you took either. x4;1.55 Schtneff-your first personal ever .. From yolll' one true love (not Leslie}. Did you wash the polo yet? C. · Dearest Brothers Craig and Billy Jim and Dave Andrew,,. . AU 0'\11' th()ughts are with you ; as you Cilmmemorate yotir' 2oth anniversary, of being on this earth! Don't be such strangers! To the members of the I.G .S.F.: Godzilla Amphibian Lives! Take a 10-100 next time you bail out our fire escape. Another PSU threesome. Congratulations. almost ... I think! Love Mom Love Citizens .of C\lckoonogen Pebbles Buggies &Kissies, Lorraine & Kathleen ' Schmeff- Her·e's your first personal ... from you:r · one true love not Leslie -Did you clean the shirt? C Hope we go this weekend! Should be lots of flln! Jane l<Jves zagn uts belated birthday happy STD th .. (COLj§§U.M) 1987 COMING ATTRACTIONS Love, Bam-Bam O.ir spectacular· l!l87 Season is selling . out f:::tst! INNER CIRCLE· ct.UB MEMBERS are the first to know about NEW shows AND the first to purchase· tickets! HURRY, tickets go on sale to the general public on Monday, May 27th! : Regular Inner Circle .. _ ....... - ............. \A.ii;~~i;;;;;···· .. ············-.............. ii;;i;;······ ....... =ri;;;;·····r··-p;i;~····· ·oi~~~~~~- ·····;;;.~~···· ......................................................... , ........................................ , ........ ;- .......................... , ....... .,_.,_., ..... . : ·BOBBY VINTON MAY 30 6 & 9:30 PM i $17.50 $3.50 · $14;00 • KENNY ROGERS JUNE 11 . 6 & 9:30PM i $.30.00 - $30:00 : wii.:LiE'N'iii.:so'N'\ ........................................ jliNE.2s\' ... _.8.:3o'?M ... T .. $29:56 ........................ $29:sa··· i>IAHANN CARROLLNIC DAMONE JUNE 26 8:30PM ! $17.50 $1.75 $15.75 , u••••~•••••ooooooooonoooooooo.ooooo•ooonoouooooooo..,ououon ••,•••••••••••••••••u ••••••••ouoouo••••u}••••••••••••oou •••••••••u••••n ••u•••••••••••• · fRANKIE VALLI & THE FOUR . i . SEASONS WITH THE FOUR TOPS JUNE 27 8:30PM i $17.00 . $1.70 . $~5.30 ii.i=iis\i<R'is-Toi='E'Rso'r:i''\\'\\'· .......... _ .......... jliNE.3o\' .... '8\:3o.rM'···T .. $.16:56\'' .... $1\.65\ ...... $'14:as··· K00i. & THE GANG JUNE 29 8:30 PM ! $23.50 . $23.50 ......... ,_ ................... _ .. _,,_, .. ,_., ............................................................... ~ ................................................ . THE COMMODORES JULYS 8:30PM ! $t5.00 $1.50 $13.50 THE EVERLY BROTHERS JULY 10 8:30PM i $t7,5o $1.00 . $i6.50 MAR-sHA\l:c=ruci<'E.Fiio'uiiiiws .......... - ... ··-·:iucv-;·3··· ····:a·:3o.rM .. T .. $.1i5o~·· ····$;·_35 .... ····~12:rs--·· PERRY COMO JULY 14 8:30 PM i $29:50 - $29.50 ·a-uiin•r•iAci<·rn:····-···-····-···············-···-·· · ···Jii\Lv·15 .... ····a:3ci·r;M····r·$.iiiso··· .... $:1:65···· ···$;·4.as··· · CHARliE DANIELS BAND JULY 16 8:30PM $16.50 $1)35 $.14,B5 RICKY SKAGGS JULY 18 8:30 PM $15.00 $1.50 $13.50 AIR SUPPLY JULY 19 8:30PM $t7.50 $1.75 $15.75 A~ABAMA JULY 20 6 &. 9:30 PM,: .$3~.50 • $32.50 AMERICA & THREI:: DOG NIGHT JULY24 8:30PM . i $.t5.00 $1W $13:50 JAYBLACK&THEAMERICANS JULY~5 8:30PM • $t3.50 $1.35 $12.15 ENGELBERT HUMPERDINCK JULY 26 8:30 .PM -$19.50 • $19;50 MICKEY GILLEY JULY 29 8:30 PM l $16.50 $-1.65 $14.B5 HARRY BLACKSTONE, JR. JULY SO 8:30PM ! $12.50 $1;00 $11.50 . · (Children): $8.50 · $1.00 . $7.50 .. _ ....................................... - ............................................................... .,. ............ , ... ····-············ .......... - .... . WAYNE NEWTON JULY 3t 7 & 10 PM i .$t9;50 - $19.50 EDDY ARNOLD AUG. 2. 8:30PM i $t7.50 $1.75 $15.75 ·e·ooi'E'~iii\8Eii11ii:oiiis'E'\MA'No'REiT'\ ..... i\uC3:·a·.... .. .. 8.:3o.PM .... l\ .. $'17:5o'·· \\$1 •. 75\\ \\i'i5:75\. UVE PRO WRESTLING AUG. 8 7:30PM i $t2.50 $1.00 $11.50 ••••••••••••••••••u•••••••••••u•n••u••••••••••\•n•••• ... ·•••••• u••••••••••••••••••• ••••n•••••••••••••••)o•n••••••••••·•~ ••••••••••••••••• ••••••-o;•u•••••• (Children)! $8.50 $1.00 $7.50 WEIRD Al YANKOVIC AUG. 9 S:::io PM i $t4.50 . $1.45 . $13,05 . •••••• •••••-••• ••• •••••••••••• •••••••• •~••••'(•• •••• • \;•••\'• ••• ''\ •••••• •••• ••• •••\n• •• •••• ••••••••u••••:•••• ••• • •••••••• •uo ~~· •no•n•• o•n•!•••n•o••• o rDt,~Y· ORLANDO/JOSE FEt:ICIANO . AUG. 1.2 8:30PM .i $17.50 $1,75 $15.75 . RIGHTEOUS BROTHERS · AUG. 13 . 6:00PM i $t6.00 $3.20 _$12,BO. n••••••n•••••••••••••n••n••••••••n•••••••••••••u••n•••.-••• ••••••u••n•••••••• u•••n••n•n•••••.,>••na)t•1•••u•• t~oa\flili~•-.ln•iUi• •• ,.,..~··••••o.•iio CLASSIC '60S SUPERFEST AUG. 14 7.& 10 PM i $t6.50 $1.65 . $14.B5 READY FOR THE WORLD AUG. 16 8:30 i $15;00 $1.jiQ $13.50 i>.i\ul:.ANKA ............................................... ····;;mi\1'8\\' .... ii:3!Ff.iM''\!'\$:;:;:;io\'' \\$1'.15\\ \\$15.:75 ... . GORDON C~GHTFOOT . AUG. 19 8:30PM i $17.50 $1.75 $15.7!i ...... ~ .................... ~ ......... ~··· .. ·••!••····················· ···~··~··-;··········· .... , ................... > .. ·~············· ~····.~····,~··,·· ~\\'~···~·- .. ·~··· ROY OR~SON AUG. ?O 8:30-PM i $t4.50 $2.00 $12.50 .. TOM JONES AUG. 21 8:30 PM $19.50 - $'19.50 JIM NABORS AUG. 22 8:30PM .l $15.00 $1.50 $13.50 J_OAN ~IVERS AUG. 23 6:00PM ! $18 .. 50 ~ $18.50· LOU RAWLS· & ROBERJA FLACK AUG. ~4 6 & 9:30PM: $17.50 $3.50 $14,60 LEE GREENWOODrTAMMV WYNETTE AUG. 25 8:30PM $16.50 $1.65 '$14;85 POLKA FESTIVAL AUG. 26 8:30 PM $16.50 $.8.25 $8.25 ctEORGE BENSO.N AI,JG. 27 8:30 PM $22.50 $2;25 $20,25 JAY lENO AUG. 29 8:30PM $t5.00 $].50 $13.50 RAY CHARLES SEPT. 3 8:3d P~ $16.50 $:po $13.20 GEORGE STRAIT • SEPT. 5 7:00PM $t7.50 $1.75 . · $15.75 · •••• •••l\ ................................................. ~.. •••• ••• ••• • ......................................... ··> .......... •• ....... • ................ ~ .......... ~ ···~··· ... GOLDEN BOYS OF BAliDSTAND SEPT. 10 8:30PM l $17,50 $1.75 $15.75 JERRY LEE LEWIS/GEORGE JONES SEPT. 11 8:30PM ! $18.50 - . $18.50 .iioiieR\\wiiinA\i<Eil ............................. _ ... \'s'EP·;::·i2\' .... ii:3o.rM···T··$'16:5o\· .... $1\.65··-- .... $14:er·· YAKOV SMIRNOFF/JERRY SEINFELD SEPT. 19 8:30PM i $.16.50 $1.65 $14:85 ···~··.··\ ······~.-· .. ! ······~·~··· · .... •••• , .............. ......... ,. 0 ••••••••• ................. ·····~-- ........ 1' ............... 0 •• • .... • ........ ••• .. .............. . PETER, PAUl .& MARY . · OCT. 11 8:30 PM : $22.50 · $2.25 $20.2ji. MIAMI SOUND MA~HINE , OCT. 23 8:30PM • $t5.00 $1.50 $13:50 ***DATE CHANGES: ROGER WHITTAKER- Rescheduled from Sept. 18 to Sept. 12 MIAMI SOUND MACHINE - Rescheduled from July 17 t0 Oct. 23 ALL TICKETS FOR THE ABOVE SHOWS THAT HAVE THE OLD DATES WILL BE HONORED ON THE NEW DATES.

CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 :Page 1'7 !!!!!!!!!!!!!il!!!!!!!i!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!:!!!!!!!!!!!l!~ announ:ces, an essay contest to · celebrate. the Bicentennial of ·the U.S. C()nstitution. The topic is: \Do V{e need an equal rights for women amendment to the U.S. COnstitution?\ Contestants must he students enrolled in The Adolph Coors. c .. mpany announces its 1987 Cbor~ Veterans' Memorial Scholar· ship Fund Competition. Open t() dependents of veter~ms of the U.S. Armed Forces, the scholarship of up to $5,000 will be awarded to a minimum of 1011 recipients. Applicants must be 22 years old or younger as e:f July 1,1987, have a cum of 3.0 or better, have completed the .freshman year but not their -senior year and be. a ctependent of a veteran. For more in- formation and . applications contact the Financial Aid Office. The application deadline is Jlily 1, 1987 for the 1987' competition. The State Street Chapter .of the National Fed.eration. of Business and Professional Women's Clubs announces. tne availability of two $1,000 scholarf!hips to support women in career-related study during 1987-88. To be eligible ap- plic!}nts must be a woman 25 years of age or older and enrolled in a full or part-time program. Deadline for ap- plications .is June 30 1987. Contact the Financial Aid Office for, applications. The National Organization for Women (NOW) Foundatioo senior high, college, or con- . tinilillg ed.11cation. Winners will . be awarded scholarships starting at $1,000~ All entries · must be received by September 30, l!J87. Contact the Financial ··Aid Office or NOW Foundation , Essay Cuntest, 14Ql New York · Ave.t ' NW, Suite 800, ' Washingtcm, D.C. 20005 for .. more information and : guidelines. Professional Resume Ser- vice---Writing and tyPing cover . letters, C()pies. FREE CON- : SULTATlON. 105 Wolf Rd., . • Room. No. 21. Tel. 489.0605. Hiring '1'()day! Top Pay! Work at Rome. No experience .. needed. Write Cottage Industries~ 1407'12 Jenkins, : Norman, Oklahoma 73069. ·Student Clerical Ass.istants • needed fo:r week of , Sept. 8 • through 11 1987 to work in ' R~gistra.r 's Office, clipping · together registration packets, sorting student schedules and delivering materials around campus. }{()urs are 8:30a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Minimum Wage. 1fT· ' ~tCUlllltlt 6 I . ·(f[Ientiers & tiTailors11Jtb. 1714 UN.ION Sl AEET ( 518) 374-6647 ·,o •t• tl(l'( a.GfA: Specializing in c,pr.\l' · ou~~S Suede & leather Cleani~g o\SC . Shins.& Blouses Laundered Zippers Replaced. Jeans Shortened Charge ACCOUIIIS Welcome'· ANSWER TO LAST ISSUE'S PUZZLE PJE.IN THE FACE 4:00 AT THE NOTT Contact Mrs. Adey, Registrar's Furniture, 823 Eastern Ave., Office, Silliman Halt. · 374-77~5. F'ur-nished Apartment to s11blet-June 20-Aug. 20; Upper Union St., 2 bedr()orn, garage, $il25-mo. Mike 393~191 after 4:30p.m. EARN $3.00. Come to Rm. 102 iii Psychology Bldg at 7 p.m. Thurs. or Fri. Participate in a fun Psych. experim.ent! If you have to spend your summer in Scllenectady, consider a . 4 bedroom apart· menton University Ave.-cheap rent is guaranteed! ! Call x4375 OI:' ~4374 for more information as soon as possible. Wanted: Student help rigbt naw and for the surruner for various kinds of work in a fumiture store, Can be part tb::ne male and female. RAS Part~Time Student Help. Palnting and spring . clean .. up. $5.00 per hour. Working hours are flexible. Contact Margaret Sclladler ext. 6244 . Great loft for sale! 4'x8' fine plywood top on a frame of 5'5\· tall4-by-4 cedar legs and 2•by-6 boards. Matching 26\ by 6 '6\ counter fits perfectly un- demeath. Great for your single bedroom or apartment. David, .393-'5137 . CLUB NEWS Newman Picnic-For Union students, faculty, staff and fan:Jilies, Monday, May 18, 5-7 pm, Hale House Courtyard. In case c,f rain Hale House Lower Lounge. Please RSVP BY Friday,. May 15 to Sr. Joan's Office 370,6087 ·leave name and nwnber attending. omit above paragraph The Film Committee presents: · 5-23 · 5-24 7, 9, 11 p.m. True Stories. 9 p.m., Bring on the Night SS016. . \Eclipse of Reason,\ a new film which shows an actual abortion and includes in~ . terviews with several former abortior.•ists. A new·perspective on the abcrtion· issue. Thurs., May21 at 7:30p.m. in SS016. Sponsoroed by the Union College ho·Life Forum. Union College Film Committee presents: Fitzhugh Ludlow Day ~· Friday, May 22 Library Plaza ' .. ·~' ' 9:00 STING'S BRING ON THE NIG 10:30 TALKING HEADS TRUE STORIES Admission is free, but don't forget to bring a blanket. In case of rain, movies will be held in SS016 PE·ANUTS@ by Charles Ma Schulz 50 I WAS HANGING UPSIDE DOWN FROM THIS Ti<EE, SEE ... I WAS ON ONE SrDE OF THE TREE AND M'i KITE WAS ON THE OTHER .. ML OF A SUDDEN. r wow! YOIJ 1 VE f.IEARD THI5 AWFUL SEEN IT Al.L. CRUNCHING SOUND! TI-lE 14AVEN'T YOI!. 'fREi: WAS EATING MV . . . CHARLIE KITE! rr. \!lAS TERRIBLE!! BROWN., ,c.. . (,C.)

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, May 21., 1987 The Henley Royal ·Regatta gentlemen are clad in sport jackets emblazoned with schooi or club colors. Each insignia is neatly attached to the left breast pocket. Every tie bears team colors as does the band of each straw hat which is tipped slightly to the side. Formal wear is not only preferred but required in the Steward's Enclosure. Here, a brass band plays from a gazebo behind :the grandstand where champagne and Pimm's cups are the order of the day. s: Q) 0 By JOHN CIOVACCO Two days after com- mencement ceremonies marks the departure to Henley, England of Union's finest collection of oarsmen. Once there, they will have two weeks to prepare for the Henley Royal Regatta rowing's most prestigious and anticipated event. .(/) c Q) :E >- ,, ··. .0 0 0 -3.- ~?t There are more than 2,000 competitors who race in the folU' day event but what is even more impressive is the estimated 100,000 spectators. One can spend an entire day just watching those who have come to watch the races. From their style of dress those who com~ to Henley look as if they have stepped off the pages of an F. Scott Ritzgerald novel. The Meanwhile on the adjoining race course, two boats battle it out. The winner advances while the loser joins the crowds on the shore for the remaining days of racing. Union's Men's Varsity Heavyweight Eight will be racing in the extremely com- petitive Ladies Challenge Plate. This event encompasses any Division II varsity boats from the United States as well· as various junior varsity, fresh· man and llghtweight crews from the Ivy League. In ad- ·'dition, it is not uncommon to have to race against various foreign national teams in this event. The members of the Varsity that will travel to participate in the Henley Regatta. The Henley is the event that all crews aspire to. It is indeed the most prestigious event in the world of college rowing. To participate in the second biggest social event. in all England while members of the Royal Family look on is the highlight of many of these fine athletes' competitive careers. 1986-87 BLOCK U . 4 Year Letter Winners Alves, Steve Appleby, David Bajcer, Dale Bank, Douglas Brady, Barbara Brown, Jam~s Claveloux, Guy Crandall, Robert Crossley, Andrew Diemoz, Timothy Dilorio, Jennifer Duffy, Sean Fiedler, Howard Fitzsimmons, Julia Halpern, Julie Hartman, Steven Joyce, Duane Leyton, Mark Markopou.los, Andrew Baseball Ice Hockey Football Tennis Volleyball Football Soccer Soccer Swimming Golf Track Football Soccer Field Hockey Track Soccer Ice Hockey Lacrosse Baseball McCarty, Meredith Millett, Michael Mohlar, Robert Monks, James Pick, Elaine Tennis Swimming Track Soccer Field Hockey, Basketball, Lacrosse Ramundo, Timothy Football Reed, Michael Cross Country Ricks, Neal Cross Country Rita, Alexander Football, Ross, Andrew Stenard, Robert Tyree, Li II ian Walker, Todd Weisinger, Barbara Wilk, Douglas Baseball Lacrosse Cross Country, Track Field Hockey Football Basketbalf Soccer- .arnncnri)ieusis SPORTS Due to the fact ·that three quarters of all Yankee games are now available only on pay t.v. myself and three cohorts took it upon ourselves to avert this problem. Early last week we packed up the car for a road trip. Destination- Yankee Stadium. The Yanks would be playing the White Sox that . night. We arrived in the Bronx at about 6:45 and parked the car a ways from the Stadium. As we walked vendors everywhere, the smell of pretzels and hot dogs, one coUld not help but feel like this was opening day. As Union College is still in session during the opening few months of the season~ this would be our first game ofthe season until we got home for the swnmer. The night was a perfect one for baseball, warm and clearn not to mention the full m()on. By the time we got . into the park .. all thoughts of Union College were gone from our minds. Several hot dogs, peanuts; beverages and $50 later, we settled down to watch the game. We had fairly good seats, back off the third base line. The Yankees. had \By the time we got into the ballpark, thought of Union College had gone from our minds.\ been on a tear at home winning 11 of 12. Meanwhile, on the ,other side of the country, the Brewers were playing the A's and holding a 7 game losing streak as well. The result of a Yankee win and Brewer loss would be sole possession of first place. Apparently the rest of New York wasn't aware of this but the 20,000 fans who were there were in store for a great game. As for the game itself, Chicago scored first, but the Yanks got right back shortly thereafter on a two.run dinger by Gary Ward. After the Chicago pitcher served up a gopher ball to Pagliarulo the Yankees led 3..;1. Lou Pinella, not wanting to turn the game into a blowout brought in Dave Righetti to replace Joe Niekro who had been doing a fine job. Pinella got his wish. The third batter Righetti faced : ~· ,· ... ·N·OTIN ·TH.EBOX SCORE Mark Zimmerman was leftfielder Gary Redus. The irony bebind this is that throughout the game, the fans in left field unrelentlessly taunted Redus, making reference to his lineage and several specific parts of his body. Redus responded to the crowd bytying the .game with a t·wo run mot. At this point each and every fan in the entire park ex:pressed their own personal feelings on Righetti's pitching. ability. In case you're. :wong dering, a small, angry New York fans can make as much noise as the entire city of Chicago. It did not help the fact that fans were beginnwg to load up on beer, as they do not sell any after the seventh inning. By the eighth inning the fans were quite restless andasthe score of - the Milwaukee game was flashed on the board periodically (Brewers even- tually lost) many ·fans were getting e~nxious for a victo~y, The game went into extra in• nings. As it was a weekday many fans decided to leave, As we had just traveled about 180 miles, we were not about to go anywhere.Several seats opened up so we picked up our stuff and moved d()wn to the third base line. In our new seats Helt as if I was playing thirct base. In the meantime, several fans all around were getting restless, and as a result, security ejected many of them. The Yankees did eventually win the game on a rally in the thirteenth. You could feel a sense of togetherness as the crowd flowed out into the streets; I'm not even a die-hard Yankee fan and I still felt like part of a group that had just won Lc:ltto. As for Gary Redus the fans seemed to quiet down in the tenth inning, after he had just taken his last at bat, a single which put him at 3for 4 with two RBI's on the night. As we left the stadium we knew our 'Opening Day' had been wor- thwhile. :By the time Union gets out of school the season will still be in full swing, but for those of you who haven't been to your 'opening day' yet, make it a point to do so. The Union Women's Crew team practices some very Important arm and leg exercises. I ~ ... u (/) c I E i I i t ~ >- ..0 0 +- 0 .J:: 0. ] ( t t I I

p 18 CONCORDJENSIS, May 21, 1987 ;= (]) (j 1/J ·c Q) The Henley Royal Regatta By JOHN CHW ACC6 Two days after com- mencement cere:monies marks the departurt io Henley, England of U11ion's finest coUection of ()arsrnen. Once there, they will have two weeks to prepare for tlre Henley Royal Regatta rowing's most prestigious a11d anticipated event. Th-ere al.\'e more than 2;000 compe:tii()rs who race in the four day event but what is even morE impressive is the estimatetl 100,000 spectat()rs. One cam spend an entire day just w:alt~hing those who have come to 1\'lltch the races. From their st:yl-e of dress those who comet()! Henley look as tf they have Sie:p1Jed off the pages of an F. Smtt Ritzgerald novel. The gentlemen are clad in sp<Jrt jackets emblazoned with sch<Jol or club colors. Each insignia is neatly attached to the left breast pocket. Every tie bears team colors as does the band of each straw hat which is tipped slightly to the side. Formal wear is not only preferred but required in the Steward's Enclosure. Here, a brass band plays from a gazebo behind the grandstand where champagne and Pimm's cups are the order of the day. Meanwhile on the adjoining race course, two boats battle it out. The winner advances while the loser joins the crowds on the shore for the remaining days of racing. Union's Men's Varsity Heavyweight Eight will be racing in the extremely com- petitive Ladies Challenge Plate. This event encompasses any Division II varsity boats from the United States as well as various junior varsity, fresh- man and lightweight crews from the Ivy League. In ad- 1dition, it is not uncommon to have to race against various foreign national teams in this event. :?; The Henley is the event that all crews aspire to. It is indeed the most prestigious event in the world of college rowing. To participate in the second biggest social event in all England while members of the Royal Family look on is the highlight of many of these fine athletes' competitive careers. £ 0 0 -5.(f ·- The members of the Varsity that will 1r.av~l1o participate in the Henley Regatta. 1986-87 BLOCK U 4 Year Letter Winners Alves, Steve Appleby, David Ba jeer, Dale Bank, Douglas Brady, Barb a ra Brown, Jarn~s ClaveiO'UX, Guy Cranda II, R()bert Crossley, A.ndrew Diemoz, Timothy Dilorio, Jen11ifer Duffy, Sean Fiedler, HC>\Vard Fitzsimm ofls, Julia Halpern, Julie Hartman, St.even Joyce, Dva n.e Leyton, Marl< Markopoulosl Andrew Baseba II Ice Hoclce-y F 'oe:rttb-a II Te rmis Vollerl)a II F.O()f~a II S.occer $1()(JCer Sw ir:m rn:i n-g Golf lfra_,c k Footb-all Socce-r Field Hockey Track Socce-r Ice Hockey Lac ross.e Base·ba II Meta rty 1 Meredith Millett, Michael Mohlar, Robert Monks, James Pick, E Iaine Tennis Swimming Track Soccer Field Hockey, Basketball, Lacrosse Ramundo, Timothy Football Reed, Michael Cross Country Ricks, Neal Cross Country Rita, Alexander Football, Ross, Andrew Stenard, Robert Tyree, Lillian Walker, Todd Weisinger, Barbara Wilk, Douglas Baseball Lacrosse Cross Country, Track Field Hockey Football Basketball Soccer· Jo11e 1st ·is M·omecolllill!f lay ·~s''Hacltsavr'·Jim·luf$1111'· · · ,xc,., .• ;.·,r··' Returns t:~.Gl~mfalls Civi~.;(euter .· , . The W()rJct wre-stling Federa1i'K>Il returns to ·the Glens. Falls Civk center on Monday, June 1st at 7:30p.m. w:itlla spe~lal Hom~comlng Day for Glens FaHS 1 own \Hacl<scrwu Jim Duggan. . . · . .·· . The toea J favorite wHI tak;e t.o the :$qvar.ed circle hl one of the f?ature~, .. \.-. .. matche\s agCI.insthis arch~enemy\~Hco.l.ai .. Volk<>ff .. This is Ouggan'sfirstmatct1. in Glens Falls since his recent r€t~rntotneWWF.: Also schEduled to appear on June 1st; for the intercontinental Cham, p.ionshifl, Rl<i<Y 1 'The Dragon' I liteamboa:t puts. his title on the fine agai·nst Kamala\The Ugandan Headhlll1ter. 11 Other matd1es include: Koko s.. Ware vs. \Macho Milrgl\' Randy Savage Dick Stater vs. King Har.ter ~ace The lsl<tJ1der$ vs. Cowboy ~()b-Orton and Magnificent Muraco Outback Jack vs. The OutlctWI Roo Bass Sarn HQuston vs. Steve L.ornb1ndi . Tickets f()r- all the exciting CJc:tion of the WWF are $11, $1'0, and $8 and ar~ on sate now at the Civic Center ~()X OfficeL Ticketron, Commpnity Box Off1ces and Bodk King in Rutland. Verfll!()tr~t · For more i'fl'forrnati~n ortgqrct·e~r:tic~~t~ P')t fP1~()1l~.h.cp_hl_t~l~J 7~8:020'2. C!lnntor~iensis SP'OR TS Due to the .fact .that three qu~rters of all Ya11kee games are mow available ollly on pay t.v. myself and tb.ree cohorts took it upon ourselves to avert thb .problem. Early 'last week we;!)acked u:p the car for a road trip'. Destination· Yankee Stalllum. The Yanks would be play-Ing the White Sox that nigM. We arrived in the Bronx: at ~bout 6:45 and parked the car a wCAys from the Stadium. As we walked vendors Everywhere, the smell of pret~els and hot dogs; one could not help but feel like· t:his was opening day. As Unioll College is still in session dtuii:ng the opening few months of tiie season, this would be our first game ofthe season until we gotlhome for the summer. The lligh.t was a perfect one for baseball, warm and clearn not to 11Le11tion the full moon. By the time: we got into the park all . thollg:i!ts of Union College were gone from our minds. Several hot dogs, peanuts, beverages and:~50 later, we settled down to watch the game. We had fairly go()ffi seats, back off the third bas~ line. The Yankees had \B.Y the time we got in t·o the ballpark, th.tought of Union Ctnllege had gone from Olli minds.\ beem ()n a tear at home winning 11 ()E 12. Meanwhile~ on the ,other side oHhe country, the Brewers wer1e playing the A's and holding a 7 game !()sing streak as ~WelL The result of a Yankee will and Brewer bss would be sole possession of first place. App:arently the rest of New Ymlt wasn't aware of this but the :20,000 fans who were there were ill store for a great game. As for the game itself, Chicago sc()ll·ed first, but the Yanks got righi back shortly thereafter on a twro ,run <linger by Gary Ward. Aftei\ the Chicago pitcher sei'JJ\'ed up a gopher ball to PagJi.arulo the Yankees led 3-1. Lou Pinella, not wanting to turn the:game into a blowout brought in Deave Righetti to replace Joe Nieioti\o who had been doing a fine job. Pinella got his wish. The tllird batter Righetti faced NrQJ:I:N THE 1 BOX sco:R:E Mark Zimmerman was leftfielderG'ary Redus. The irony behind this is that throughout the garne, the fans in left fielc' unrelentlessly taunted :Redus, making reference to his lineage and several specific parts of his body. Red11s rEsponded to the crowd by tying the game with a two run shot. A.t this point each and every fan irlthe entire park expressed 1:llelr own personal feelings on Righetti's pitching ability. In ea~e you're won- dering, a srna'll, angry New York fans <!an make as much noise as the entire city of Chicago. It <lid .not help the fact that fans wer.ebeginning to load up on beer, as they do not sell any after the seventh inning. By the eighth itlnimg the fans were quite restless and as the score o.f the Milwaul~ee game was flashed (]n the board periodical:ly (:Brewers even- tually lost) many fans were getting anx:i() us for a victory. The game WEIIt into extra in- nings. As it '\\as a weekday many fans decided to leave. As we had just traveled about 180 miles, we were aot about to go anywhere. Several seats opened up so we picked. u.p our stuff and moved doWll til the third base line. In our 11ew seats I felt as if I was playing third base. In the meantime, several fans all around wer-e getting restless, and as a result, security ejected many of them. The Yankees did eventually -win the game on a rally in tlu thirteenth. You C()Uld feel a sense of togetherness as the crowd flowed out into tile streets. I'm not even a die-hard Yankee fall and I still felt like part of a group that had just won Lotto. As for Gary Redus the fans seemed to quiet down in the tenth inning, after he had just taken his last at bat, a single which put him at~ for 4 with two REI's on thE night. As we left the st~diu:m -we knew our 'Opening Dar' had been wor- thwhile. By the time Union gets out of school the season will still be in full swing, but for those of you who haven\t been to your 'opening day' yet, make it a point to do so. Ths Union Women~s Crew team practices some very important arm and leg exercises. l I ·! t l , I l ' : ~ ~ I l I l l • - tr P· R Ir h: fc R PI h: Cl rr ei fi a Cl rr fx tl w VI tt b: to hl a ~ ~ ~ I ~ > <:: :d v. 1.. u !!' c· v ~: \\! >- .0 0 - 0 .c Q. p fi b II Sl c: t1 fi n u u a r: G tl a ~ a ti p g OJ Ir v. e1 s G 0 f s a s

. . . Henle.y with,;n sigllt Crew M·ak·es Str:Q.ng Showing at Championships By MARK BURTON This past week the crew teru;n travelled to Phila.delpllia · to participate in the Dad Vail Regatta on the Schuykill River. In what can .only be termed a highly successful weekend, the foUr year old Union College Rowing Association ear:ned a position of respectability in the highly competitive world of college rowing. With both the men's and women's varsity eights qualifyfug for the semi- finals and petite finals as well as strong showings by all other crews, there was plenty for the _many attending parents and friends to cheer for during the three-day event. The highlight of the weekend was the performances of the varsity eights. The men started the action by defeating VMass by a comfortable seven seconds to take third in their qualUying heat. Although the heavies were a little frustrated by their wro:Iiked to their advantage. An iste:u:id next to tll.e course sllLelded the .Hoyas from a slr'()rig headwind in the last 500 10eters Which en~bled them to fLgllt off a charging Union boat b:y a mere three secu.nds. Although the heavies had IDi~sed the finals they were g.iwen a chance to prove themselves against traditional ri:v.als Trinity ami Itllaca in the P'etite Finals held later that aftErnoon. The rernainder of the f~ {l(d consisted of 'Cincinnati, lfit-g:inia and Lowell. With the e:=cce])tion of Trinity, the Dut- cllrnEn had defEated, eitber hEad to head or by time, all otller crews in the Petite Final. It a()peared that beating 'l'rinity wro11Ld be enough to wih the pEtites and capture at least. a seve11th place finisi:J overalL llowEver, a relaxed Ithaca boat ras away and hLd leaving the reSt of the field to fight it out for second place. With only 500 IO.I!!ters to go, the heavies were bEhind Trinity and Vi~:ginia by a Men's Varsity 8 pulls ahead o! C();mpetitors in last week·s championships. pedormanc~ they were only five seconds behind eventual bronze medalist Florida Institute of Technology and two seconds in back of Cincinnati, a crew they would defeat twice on the following day. The . semi- finals were held on Saturday morning. The other crews in Union's heat Were Purdue, UNH, Georgetown, Cmcinnati, and Lowell. As a part ()f pre-:- race strategy Cincinnati and Georgetown were targeted as the crews to beat for thir.g place and a spot in the Grand Finals. With Union and Cincinnati in adjacent lanes, it was · an- ticipated that the two would push each other hard enough to get past Georgetown wllo was on the opposite side in lane six. In a back and forth battle all the way down the course, Union edged out Cincinnati by 0.5 seconds. Unfortunately, Georgetown's lane draw ft:tlllength. As the str.()ke rating c=:~rne up for the sprint Union \l\a]k:ed back i throngh botb. C!'ews to finish in almo()st a deacl heat. With a sta:ggered finisll lillelt was hard to tell the order ofmish. The ann0run~er made it official. Union :had finishecl bu:rth, four seconds behind V]t:ginia and one sec()nd behind Trlmity. It should be.lloted that ille:Y did beat Georgetown's fiJ:lals. time, givin~. the Varsity H:tm .a more than 'respectable nin1ll .place finis:h overall. A satisfied coach Ciovacco had illis to say about l:lis crew;s pErf()rmance: ' 'It was hl- -val11able experien<le to compete on a level where evel'y race is decided by just a sec~nd or two. We lEarned a lot arout what it rea1l:y means to bean elite crew andiiow this can be used to help us better prepare for the ,(ballenges we'll face at Henley 1l'ais sllttln1er.\ After facing one t~11g11 -<Jrew after another during the- :r\Eglllar season the Women's \-'a.rsity Eight showed what ti:tey O()uld do by also qualifyin~ fol! tile semi•finals. In their first neat they finished third, sbt ~eeo11ds ahead of fourt11~pelace Charleston to earn the priv:ilege of competing again oa :latur- day. Faced with an ex:tremely tough semi.:final heat the lJni()n did not qualify for the fillals but did come in sixth in U.e poetite finals fora twelfth place OtVI(lrall finish in a field that ruri~inally consisted of 22 crews. The women's performance juaified, the confidence that C()acll '1o11y Corsello showed in his «Jrew throughout the season. \All along I knew that we 'W>ere rowing well and had a }l(lten- tially fast crew. They neVI(lJ:\ lost faith in themselves amd. 'W~re able to put e¥ery.tbing to~J~tl!er this weekend when it rEally counted.\ Corsello alf;o ~:x-' pressed. optimiSm for tile futlli\e ·of the women'l:i progtam. With four returning from the ~axsity and a strong novice pro.gllalll, he feels that next year-'f; ter-ew will be more competiti-ve than ever. With more pr~~rram stability and an entire season together under the same Cl()ach he feels that next year comltd be a big one for women's ;()J:'e11'\. Although the eights re1c~d ()ll Friday, the competitio11 a<:- tually began the previollS day With qualifying heats for the Men's Novice and 'V~ursity Fours. The varsity folll~ c~tught a bad break as a apitch .artn on one of the riggers· c!llTie< IO()f3e only 26 seconds into tlse J:\ace. This was especially fru.st.l·at.ing because there is a rllle tllat allows for equipment fClOwe but only up to 20 seconds aft-er the start of the race. Fol'ee;<i' t() continue under less thla11 fllll pressure, the four still man~ged to place third in their htat :by defeating Coast Gu!lrd, Ollio State. and Canisius. Tiler lJiere still in position to quali:fr l9Eter four of the seven heat~ h.adlbeen run. But fate struck ag<~iJJ a~tlle morning headwind died fer tile afternoon heats, allo-wirlg for much faster times. The Ntivice Four which had orll:y :been together for a week roweo<l' well enough to beat Marist I:Jllt also fell short of qualifyin~ fllr- tile semis. None-the-less. ,th>eir performance must be Cl'oEdited as they competed ill the heavyw~ight divisio.ll wb.ile three of the four oarsrueii ~Vere actually under the weitrllt limit for lightweights. In the Novice Eights, u either the men's nor the woDe:n's boats qualified but botl! seemed relatively Sl!tisfied witll their perfoqnances. The mEn 1 ~uek in a rugged heat that :mclllded eventual silver meda]sts :F'IT and bronze medalists 111i~mi, Fitne·ss Educator Prudden to Talk at Union Bonnie Prudden an individual who advocated planned fitness programs for people of all ages long before it was fashi()nable to do so, will be coming to Union College on Saturgay, J11ne 6 to discuss her ·work in fitness and health and lead particip!lnts in a few exercises. This opportunity to meet with one of the country's leading fitness educators and con- SUltants will take place from 10 a.mA p.m. in the Social Sciences Building Room 016. 'Dui fee for the course is $30 pl115 ·ll SZ fee and registration takes 'IJlaee through the Office of Hiaduate and Continuing .S:tutlies at Wells Ilouse. For ·!Ilor-e .information, call the Office at (518) 370~2ll8. . This non-credit course will l11clt1de a discussion em oo:yotherapy, a term, that Prudden uses to describe l:ler ooethod of erasing pain without :IISin!l drugs or fancy equip- '!Ilellt. Prudden bas trained a 'lllllllber of f?e()ple in this practice of pam erasiii'~ from her center in St()ckbiidge Massachusetts. Her t'W() btoDks, Pain Erasure and Myotb~l'apy, explain her techniques. · Durfug the lunch, a paiiel will describe how Prudtle:n 's methods and programs Cllll :be applied to various popul;at..i<Jns. For information on otller lion- credit courses avaita ble through the Office of Gradllate and Continuing Studie~ v-isit Wells House on Cain))US Clr- call 37~288 for a brochure~ . Alysheba. This11ame may not • mean mach to yo11, but to the horse raefug fan it takes on ail. historical aura. Alysheba, the courageous winner ·of both the Kentucky Derby- and the Preakness, has th>E chance to be the first horse sin.ce 19!11 to win horse racing's tn'()st coveted prize, the Triple Cmwn. Tbe first leg of the crown, the Kentucky Derby, may have :been one.of the Jn()St coarageous races run in rece11t memory. Alysheba sandwiched in the ' ' middle of a thick pack, caught a hoof around the one~half-mile mark and seemed destined for disaster. Joc'key Chris McCarron was llillged forward almost to a pare:Uel position with Alysheha's head. He managed to pull b~tck, right the stumbling horse, aod regain the pack. \It was ne!lr disaster,\ a shaken McCarroll said after the race, \I had 10 ]horses behind me. If we had fatien, I don't know ... I just thank God.\ To finish the race wt~uld have been .a feat in itself, butto c~me back and win it was downright amazing. After the n.ear tragedy, Alysheba found h-erself trailing the leader, Bet Tvvlce, by a five horse margin. McCarron pulle.d the possible lleir to the triple crown throne to the outside and began his run. Alysheba, responding like tile true athlete she is, pulled out and began to pull up to the leaders. It took three runs and a final length's charge to <lisl()dge Bet Twice from tile · lead sJjot. Wilen ·the dust had settled .AJysheba had emerged the winn>Er by a length and an llistorical f()otnote to one of the most exciting Derbys ever. As the scene shifted to Pilnlico, all were mt convinced by Alysheba's Derby per- formance. The odds on Alysheba, a sure 1-1 shot were inflated to 2;.1 after a slow morning workout. The experts thought that Alyslleba had her came .in third, eight seconds behind Miami. Unfortunately, this was not quit-e enough as only th~ first tw() boats from each heat went to the semi- finals. Bow man B.rett Bissell had this comment: \It was a tough }()ss, but \'\'ell fought.;, The Women's Novice Eight also was placed in a to11gh heat and failed to qualify. However, they posted their best :time of the season on the 2,000 meter\ course. As an indicator of the potential in this boat, coach Georgia Sullivan noted that their time was actually better than the times of some of the var\sity crews. With a year's experieace behind them and good technical ability, look for members of all the novice boats Track ..• Continued from page 20 place distance of 39.5 meters and missed quaLifying fol\ nationals by only lllinches. Also just missing nationa:l qualifying was senior Julie Halpern. 40(} hurdles, rUill!ling them sm<Jothly, in 57.5 sec:onds. That time easUy his best of the year, got him third in tbe event. The quality peiformances , were certainlynot lim.ited to the · men;s side. Senioi Jen Diiorio, in her flnalperforrtlCJ.nce for the lady nutchmen, broke her school record in tile javelin one more time, tllis time by five feet. Diiorio heavetl it a second . With a Perspective On Sports Andrew .Miller one great moment on the Churchill Downs stretch and would n()t be tough enough to repeat. Alysheba put on 35 to 40 pounds between the Derby and Pimlico 's Preakness. Most horses lose weight after the grueling Derby run. This was a horse primed and ready to prove the \experts\ wrong. Alysheba's main competition came from Derby hopeful, Bet Twice, hard \I uck horse Cryp- toclearance and Gulch, a 7-2 pre-race dark horse. As the horses paraded by the stands all attention had shifted back to Alysheba. The skeptical favorite trotted by the grand- stand with the bounce he showed on the Kentucky grass' at Churchill. He looked bigger and more powerful but at the same time hadthe aura of grace that all champion race horses possess. In a word, he was beautiful. As the gate qpened and the sea of color and dirt kicked up from the fast Pimlico clay, Alysheba was nowhere near the lead. After the first half mile the sire of two time champion Alydar looked as if she would not take leg two of the quest for the triple crown. Cryp- toclearance and Bet Twice ied the pack for close to the mile mark. Then McCarron pUshed Alysheba outside and began his run. \It was a real challenge to get away from the rail,\ said Mce'arron, ''There were three or four horses looking to push it outside.\ In the final quarter, Alysheba wa.s magnificent. Coming from sixth she pushed her way by a lQg-jam of would- be contenders to challenge the leaders. Stride for stride, Alysheba and Cryptoclearance · raced away from the pack. But when it came down to the serious running, Cryp- ~oclearance could not hold stride anp submitted to the athletic ability of the horse that may just be flirting with greatness. to make contributions to next year's crews. NOTES: This is not the last regatta that Union crews will be participating in this year. There will be both men's and women's boats racing at the Empire State Regatta June 14 at Albany. In addition, the Men's Varsity Heavyweight Eight will be leaving on June 16 for Great Britain to participate in the Henley Royal Regatta. Halpern went out aggressively in the 400 hurdles, but her third place time of 67.8 seconds was a couple of seconds off the 1:04 qualifying mark. Besides Halpern, other scores for Union in the meet included Chip Silver's double of six feet in the high jump (third place) and 16.5 seconds in the 110 hurdles (fifth place), Mike Reed's 9 :39 fifth place in the steeplechase and Chris Hamilton's 11.37 meter throw in the shot out (third place). Rob Mohlar and coach Russ ·Ebbets flew out to Illinois Tuesday foi' the national meet, where Rob ran the trials of the 800 meters last night. The entire team wishes him luck in his quest for All-American honors. ....

CONCORDIENSIS, May 21, 1987 Page 19 ... Henley within sight Crew Ma,ke:s 'Strong Showing at Championships By MARK BURTON This past week the crew terun travelled to Phill:\delphia to participate in the Dad Vail Regatta on the Schuykill Rive!\ .. In what can only be termed a highly successful weekend, the four year old Union College Rowing Association earned a position of respectability in the highly competitive world of college rowing. With both the men's and women's varsity eights qualifying for the semi- finals and petite finals as weB as strong showings by all other crews, there was plenty for the many attending parents andi friends to cheer for during the three-day event. The highlight of the weekend was the performances of the varsity eights. The men started the action by defeating UMass by a comfortable seven seconds to take third in their qualifying heat. Although the heavies were a little frustrated by their ::: QJ 1.. u !' c· Q) ~ > .0 ·'\' , ....... ,, 0 - 0 .c Q. worked to their advantage. An island next to the course shielded the Hoyas from a strong headwind in the last 500 meters which enabled them to fight off a charging Union boat by a mere three seconds. Although the heavies had missed the finals they were given . a chance to prove themsel-ves against traditional rivals Trinity and Ithaca in the Petite Finals held later that afternoon. The remainder of the field consisted of Cincinnati, Virginia and Lowell. With the exception of rrinity, the Dut- chmen had defeated, either head to head or by time, all other c1ews in the Petite Final. It appeared that beating Trinity would IJe enough to win the petites .and capture at least a seventh place finish overall. However, a relaxed Ithaca boat ran awe~y and hid leaving the rest of tbe field to fight it out for second place. With only 500 meters to go, the heavies were behind Trinity and Virginia by a Men's Varsity B pulls ahead of competitors in last week's championships. performance they were only five seconds behind eventual bronze medalist Florida Institute of Technology and two seconds in back of Cincinnati, a crew they would defeat twice on the following day. The semi- finals were held on Saturday morning. The other crews in Union's heat were Purdue, UNH, Georgetown, Cincinnati, and Lowell. As a part of pre- race strategy Cincinnati and Georgetown were targeted as the crews to beat for third place and a spot in the Grand Finals. With Union and Cincinnati in adjacent lanes, it was an- ticipated that the two would push each other hard enough to get past Georgetown who was on the opposite side in lane six:. In a back and forth battle all the way down the course, Union edged out Cincinnati by 0.5 seconds. Unfortunately, Georgetown's lane draw full iength. As the stroke rating came UIJ for the sprint Union walked back 'through both crews t() finish in almost a dead heat. With a staggered finish line it was hard to tell the order of finish_ The announcer made it official. Union had finished fourth, four seconds behind Virginia and one second behind Trinity. It shollld be noted that they did beat Georgetown's finals time, giving the Varsity Men a more than respectable ninth place finish overall. A satisfied. coach Ciovacco had this to say about his crew's performance: \It was in- valuable eX]Jerience to compete ()n a level where every race is decided by just a second or two. We lear11ed a lot about what it really means t() be an elite crew and now this can be used to help us better pre.pare for the challenges we'll face at Henley this summer.\ After facing one tough crew after another during the regular season the Women's Varsity Eight showed what they could do by also qualifying for the semi-finals. In their first heat they finished third, six seconds ahead of fourth-place Charleston to earn the privilege of competing again on Satur- day. Faced with an extremely tough semi-final heat the Uni()n did not qualify for the finals but did come in sixth in the petite finals for at welfth place overall finish in a field that originally consisted of 22 crews. The women's performance justified the confidence that coach Tony Corsello showed in his crew throughout the season. \All along I knew that we were rowing well and had a poten- tially fast crew. They never lost faith in themselves and were able to put everything together this weekend when it really counted.\ Corsello also ex- · pressed optimism for the future of the women's program. With four returning from the varsity aitd a strong novice program, he feels that next year's crew will be more competitive than ever. With more program stability and an entire seas()n together under the same coach he feels that next year could be a big one for women's crew. Although the eights raced ()n Friday, the competition ac- tually began the previous day with qualifying heats for the Men's Novice and Varsity Fours. The varsity four caught a bad break as a apitch arm on one of the riggers carne loose only 26 seconds into the race. This was especially frustrating because there is a rule that allows for equipment failure but only up to 20 seconds after the start of the race. Forced to continue under less than full pressure, the four still managed to place third in their hat by defeating Coast Guard, Ohio State.and Canisius. They were still in position to qualify after four of the seven heats had been run. But fate struck again as the morning headwind died for the afternoon heats, allowing for much faster times. The Novice Four which had only been together for a week rowed well enough to beat Marist but also fell short of qualifying for the semis. None-the-less their performance must be credited as they competed in the heavyw.aight division while three of the four oarsmen were actually under the weight limit for lightweights. In the Novice Eights, neither the men's nor the women's boats qualified but both seemed relatively satisfied with their performances. The men, stuck in a rugged heat that included eventual silver medalists FIT and bronze medalists Miami, Fitness Educator Prttdden to Talk at Union Bonnie Prudden an individual who advocated planned fitness. programs for people of all ages long before it was fashionable tCJ do so, will be coming to Unio11 College on Saturgay, June 6 tCJ discuss her work in fitness and health and lead participants in a few exercises. This opportunity to meet wit:h one of the coWltry's leading fitness educators and con· sultants will take place from 10 a.m.-1 p.m. in the Social Sciences Building Room 016. The fee for the course is $30 plus a $7 fee and registration takes place tllroagll the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies at Wells House. For more inf01·mation, call the Office at (518) 370-6288. This non-credit course will include a discussion on myotherapy, a term that Prudde11 uses to describe her method of erasing pain without using drugs or fancy equip- ment. Prudden has trained a numbn of people in this practice of pain erasure from her center in Stockbridge Massachusetts. Her two books, Pain Erasure and Myotherapy, explain her techniques. During the lunch, a panel will describe how Prudden 's methods and programs can be applied to various populations. For information on other non- credit courses available through the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies visit Wells House on campus or call 370-6286 for a brochure. illnncnrbiensfs SPORTS Alysheba. This name may not mean ~nuch to you, but to the horse racmg fan it takes on an historical aura. Alysheba, the courageous winner of both the Keittucky Derby and the Preakness, has the chance to be the first horse sin.ce 1981 to win horse racing's most coveted prize, the Triple Crown. The first leg of the crown, the Kentucky Derby, may have been oneofthemost courageous races run in recent memory. Alysheba, sandwiched in the middle of a thick pack, caught a hoof around the one-half-mile mark and seemed destined for disaster. Jockey Cht'is McCarron was ltmged forward almost to a parellel position with Alysheba's head. He managed to pull back, right the stumbling horse, and regain the pack. \It was near disaster,\ a shaken McCarron said after the race, \I had 10 horses behind me. If we had fallen, I don't know ... I just thank God.\ To finish the race would have been a feat in itself, but to come back and win it was downright amazing. After the near tragedy, Alysheba found herself trailing the leader, Bet Twice, by a five horse margin. McCarron pulled the p()ssible heir to the triple crown throne to the outside and began :his run. Alysheba, responding like the true athlete she is, pulled out and began to pull up to the leaders. It took three runs and a final length's charge to dislodge Bet Twice from the lead spot. When the dust had settled Alysheba had emerged the winner by a length and an historical footnote to one of the most exciting Derby:; ever. As the scene shifted to Pimlico, all were not convinced by Alysheba's Derby per- formance. The odds on Alysheba, a sure 1-1 shot were inflated to 2-1 after a slow morning workout. The experts thought that Alysheba had her came in third, eight seconds behind Miami. Unfortunately, this was not quite enough as only the first two boats from each heat went to the semi- finals. Bow man Brett Bissell had this comment: \It was a tough loss, but well fought.\ The W()men's Novice Eight also was placed in a tough heat and failed to qualify. However, they posted their best time of the season on the 2,000 meter course. As an indicator of the potential in this boat, coach Georgia Sullivan noted that their time was actually better than the times of some of the varsity crews. With a year·s experience behind them ahd good technical ability, look for members of all the novice boats Track .. • Continued from page 20 place distance of 39.5 meters and missed qualifying f()r nationals by only 16 inches. Also just missing national qualifying was senior Julie Halpern. 400 hurdles, running them smoothly, in 57.5 seconds. That time easily his best of the year, got him third in the event. The quality performances were certainly not limited to the men's side. Senior Jen Dilorio, in her final performance for the lady Dutchmen, broke her school record in the javelin one more time, this time by five feet. Dilorio heaved it a second .With a Perspective On Sports Andrew Miller one great moment on the Churchill Dawns stretch and would not be tough enough to repeat. Alysheba put on 35 to 40 pounds between the Derby aad Pimlico's Preakness. Most horses lose weight after the grueling Derby run. This was a horse primed and ready to prove the \experts\ wrong. Alysheba's main competition came from Derby hopeful, Bet Twice, hard-luck horse Cryp- toclearance and Gulch, a 7-2 pre-race dark horse. As the horses parad1.•d by the stands all attention had shifted back to Alysheba. The skeptical favorite trotted by the grand- stand with the bounce he showed on the Kentucky grass· at Churchill. He looked bigger and more powerful but at the same time had the aura of grace that all champion race horses possess. In a word, he was beautiful. As the gate opened and the sea of color and dirt kicked up from the fast Pimlico clay, Alysheba was nowhere near the lead. After the first half mile the sire of two time champion Alydar looked as if she would not take leg two of the quest for the triple crown. Cryp- toclearance and Bet Twice led the pack for close to the mile mark. Then McCarron pushed Alysheba outside and began his rtlll. \It was a real challenge to get away from the rail,\ said McCarron, \There were three or four horses looking to push it outside.\ In the final quarter, Alysheba was magnificent. Coming from sixth she pushed her way by a lag-jam of would- be contenders to challenge the leaders. Stride fur stride, Alysheba and Cryptoclearance raced away from the pack. But when it came down to the serious running, , Cryp- ~oclearance could not hold stride and submitted to the athletic ability of the horse that may just be flirting with greatness. to make contributions to next year's crews. NOTES: This is not the last regatta that Union crews will be participating in this year. There will be both men's and women's boats racing at the Empire State Regatta June 14 at Albany. In addition, the Men's Varsity Heavyweight Eight will be leaving on June 16 for Great Britain to participate in the Henley Royal Hegatta. Halpern went out aggressively in the 400 hurdles, but her third place time of 67.8 seconds was a couple of seconds off the 1 : 04 qualifying mark. Besides Halpern, other scores for Union in the meet included Chip Silver's double of six feet in the high jump (third place) and 16.5 seconds in the 110 hurdles (fifth place), Mike Reed's 9: 39 fifth place in the steeplechase and Chris Hamilton's 11.37 meter throw in the shot out (third place). Rob Mohlar and coach Russ Ebbets flew out to Illinois Tuesday for the national meet, where Rob ran the trials of the 800 meters last night. The entire team wishes him luck in his quest for All-American honors. ..

Page 20 CONCORDIBNSIS, May .21, 1987 >. . ..;._;;,~--~~-· :~ ~ -~. \\\\\'-; -a -.·,.;._' Baseball Ends Highlighted Season Oarsmen Prepare for Henley Royal Regatta May 21, {987 Basebal_l Auld lang Syne Mohlar, DiIorio Lead base percentage. Union voted .·.Track Team in Cl·assic By C:A:RATA:PACK It was th-e spring of the Celtics, comiJJg off a Red Sox- Mets World Series and a Giant Superbowl. A. fallen bridge and a fraternity eviction. A Gary Hart affair and a Brewers' winning streak. It was a year of seniors and I'Dokies, freshmen and veterans. The muffled sound of a Mets game escapirl~ from W alkman selection'' at RPI. Reentry rule. 92. Cocktails. Red Man. Fond recollections of a season. The players sadly suited up as a team for the last time, opposing RPI in the finals of the ECAC champimships. Only two days earliEr Dan Klinger broke a tenth inning tie as he drove in Tony Amarante ftom third, following Amarante's triple. Rich Bar- tosch struck oat eleven batters Jr. hurler Tim Valachovic delivers one of his many strikes in the past season. headphones at the back of the bus. American Tourister. \Sure I balked.\ Avenged North Adams. Displaced rookies on Wade Tours. \$4.98???!!!\ The Larries. A guest appearance fiy Vanna. O'L. at wuaams, keeping the scoreboard up-to- the-minute. Ponderosa. The invisible man at Hobart. Trapped ball? Heads up bench, scattered at discretion. The misplaced Med kit. Blonde trainers, an:d one from only three blocks away. A google of runs. Turkey and tuna, hold the napkins. S. AND L. Central Park. A tllesis presenter in North Carolina a.nd an unem- ployed engineer from upstate. Ominous TtJm Wood. Not so ominous Don Montgomery. Psi U box seats. A bus with locked breaks. More than one human question mark. Bob. BK milk- wholesome and coating. High- pitched encouragement from behind the dugout. A Padres scout. One ease of the chicken pox. Trip down south and the trek to Rochester. Big Bird. The morning after. A Diana Ross remake. The Olympic baseball team. Lengthy purple uniforms. Pink eye. ThrEatened \random and Union moved on· to its last game. The game was the sixth loss of the y'Car. Andy Markopoulas went out with a triple to right and a singze. Dan Klinger and Pat Secchiaroli also bad two hits apiece on the day. But the season was replete with much more than one final loss. No one will forget Steve Alves' unassisted double play, as he scrambled to unprotected homeplate to scuffle with the runner for the second out at RPI for instance. The year was filled with memorable events. The season started and the team searched out playing fields, trying to avoid the rain. Playing Albany at Siena. Meanwhile determined Alex Rita battled with the ;~00 mark. The whole team pulled for him, felt the breeze of every pitch to the player wearing Babe Ruth's No. 3, rooted for him and watched enviously as he managed to evade all opposing pitchers. His speed kept fielders beWildered. Furtherm()re,. he never struck out once during the season. He led the team starters with 7!> total bases and a .530 on~ him their athlete of the year and he Will play on a team made up of Division II and III players versus Division I on June 3 (with Rich Bartosch), as well as on a New York State team versus New Jersey. Coach Campinelli . 'got no respect'. He was replaced on every team roster by the name of an eK-coach. Combination player.s. Klingavic, Dan Klinger sporting Tim Valachavic's glasses the last inning in Rochester. Lazarante. a tenn coined at Cooperstown,· . Amarante wearing Dan Lazarek' s shirt, and more than making up for both players' hits. Amarante had a golden rookie year, finishing at .418. Rich Bartosch's height and dark sunglasses made him an intimidating sight on the mound. When batters saw him pitch, his intimidation turned to outright dominant ability. 5.9 strikeoats in 60 innings, 7.0 and a sub 1.00 ERA. Quotations of the year. As Bartosch faced the last batter with his no hitter going, a clueless onlooker on the bench, \Hey he hasn't given 11p any hits, has he?\ Then, eh route to Cooperstown, \Why'd they put the Hall of Fame here?\ \Baseball was founded here.\ \SO??\ And, one player to another, \It's awfully hard to speak to you when you have lettuce en your lens!'' Only versatility acQurately describes freshman Marty Hurley and junior Ken Horan. Whether at short, pitching or batting, they always came through (Hurley- .389 and Horan- .292 with a 2.67 ERA). Pat Secchiaroli's last name menaced newspapers and his bat menaced other teams. He and Bartosch made USA Today after the no•hitter and his name appeared in one of its various spellings. As he changed from pledge to brother in DU, his batting average seemed to rise and to stabilize in the .. aoo•s, to end the year at .367. Soph()more Dave Giordano verbally encollJ'aged the team, chirping, under Bartosch's and Lazarek's gui1es. Markopoulos's move from third to second. The gravel infield at Hamilton and Oneonta's high sloping pitching mollnd. Tim O'Leary scaled right field more than once at RPI and Dan Klinger glared at the hill that By MEN'S TRACJ( TEAM The Union ~pring · Oas$ic track meet is qllickly gaining a reputation for being one of the top Division III track meets in the state. Held last Friday pight mtder the lights at Union, the Spring Classic was the last chance for New York State athletes to qualify for the Division II nationals. . As a result, the winning per- formances were exceptional, most of them superior to ·the winning efforts at the men's and women's state meets held a week earlier. Among the athletes present were members of the Berrnuda Olympic team, one of whom won the triple jump with a leap of over 50 feet. Diana Richburg, a member of the U.S. Women'S Olympic team in 1984 was also there. She won the women'S 1500 in the phenomenal time of 4:09. What made her run even more amazing· was that she was running in a strong heat of all men, but she beat them all! The small Union team t'hat competed in the meet per- formed admirably against its formidable opponents. Leading the Dutcllman charge was Nationals-bound Rob Mohlar, who decisively defeatEd an impressive 800 meter field which included. 1987 Indoor National Champion Vernon Miller. Mohlar let Miller push ran along the first base line at Rochester. Coach Field was always ready with the NCAA Rule Book to catch illegal throat masks and lost designated hitters. Faithfully the Valachovics watched the team as did Mr. Butcher. Psi U and DU made afternoons of the games. Steve Alves' st()ries. Dave Anderson's multi run games. Fine but short• lived· pitching performances by Bill Weidman and Mike Switzer. Bill Brundige playing second and running in the pinch. Valachovic brothers. Glenn Kata's sunflower seeds. Rochester. Middlebury. Scott Perlman in relief. Calomine lotioned Chuck Hennekens and freshmen Bill Butcher and Scott Dellorfaneo behind the plate. Horan on the disabled list. Prospects of the Birling Center. Absent Aaron Root. A Dave Winfield leap by Jark Trudeau over Hobart's right field fence. Scott Goldsmith in backuv ·of the early pace, hitt'mg the 400 meter mark in 54 seconds. Then, as in an earlier race against Miller, Mohlar moved on the back stretch, .shooting to the front and never looking back. Mohlar .hit the tape in 1:52.7, Winning by OA seconds, but making it look easy. Although Mohlar prodl)ced the only victory for Union, other Senior standout Rob Mohlar Dutchmen turned in equally impressive performances. Freshman Jim Campoli qualified for TAG Junior Nationals in the 10,000 meter walk, as he easily met the 54 minute standard. Campoli race walked to a 50:48. second place. Also picking up a second place was- sophomore Mike Sirowich, who tossed the discus 35.07 meters. Freshman Jeff Simkins ran a great race in the Continued on page 19 Now teammates and fans anxio11:sly await the major league draft. Soon seniors Alex, Steve; Andy, Dan and Rich graduate.. This year the team tied the Union win record of 16, next year they will try to beat ·this. Next year there will be new and old faces, some of the same antics and more, but it will never, and can never, be the same. Without the five unique personalities and abilities of these unrelenting players, it will never be like it was this spring of 1987.

CXVI,- No. 2:6 .r::' .t:' E Cl) tcs 0 0 Q) Press Release on Afghanistan Analyzed Union Professors Question Accuracy of U.S~ 's Congressional TaskForce Report ]JyEZRASHEI\MAN Coneordlensis I'ecently .0 Q); a:. rel!eived a request by Press >- Sec11etary Devin Hagerty to .0 0 reprint verbatim a letter o written by Senator G()rdon J. \5. Humphrey, Chairman of the Photo of the Week: Greeks face-off during the tug-of-war event that took pface during this year's Greek Week. Weighing of Student Course Evaluations Investigated Dean, Professors Assess Role Ry FIONA SHUK.RI In the next week the academic. departments . will _ distribute the often·criticized studen-t course evaluation forms. Many students do not realize what an important factor fuese fonns are in the department's and Faculty Review Board's evaluation of a profeSSQ.r~ s teaching ability. The · fcnrns, in fact, play a decisivE role in detennining the future of both tenured and untenure(l professors. However, the validity of these fonns as well as their usages is questionable and controversial. evaluations. He also noted that while low grades may often restilt in a ]()W-scoring on the evaluation f()ons, .high grades do not seem to guarantee high · scores. However, more than one faculty member stated that · they knew of cases where professors have~inflated student grades with the hopes of im- . proving their evaluation scores, \It happens, but I don't know . that it wol\'ks '' said one · professor. Another professor's criticism of the importance given to the . evaluation fonns was that the profession was demeaned and eompromised by having to cater to tile students or 11 Clients\ ratl1er than by be.ing judged primarily by more · · qualified colleagues. Weiner feels that most professors remain \professional\ and do not succmnb to the crowd- Continued on page 2 Congressional Task F<>rce on Afgilanistan. In his letter, HU111phrey urges college stu-dents to get involved in the protest movement against Soviet atrocities in Afghanistan. Lik:e most emotional E\ppeals, HUinJ}hrey goes to enremes to try t<> jar the reader into sup- porting his cause. He says that Soviet violations ''include bumin'g civilians alive, bayonetting pregnant women, flinging the elderly from ·· h~UcQ..pt.ers.. _ b.ombi!l;g. , and shelling villages in- dis>eriminantly, and m<~iming of children by bombs disguised as toys.\ Hagerty prefaces Humphrey's paper with a cover letter on his own in which he says that ''40 per eent of Afghanistan's 1979 population has been killed or chased from the country.\ He ad.ds that \Soviet tactics in Afghanistan compare with those <if tile Nazis in World War II.\ Hagerty asks wh_y college students are so silent on huma11 rights violati()nS by the Sov.iets when they are usually so vocal about atrocities committed elsewb.ere. Humphrey ·w-ges the reader to take steps to correct the U.S. government's blind-eye stance toward the Soviets. Continued Qn page 3 Associate · Dean of Faculty Terry 'Weiner states that although the course evalu~;ttions are given much consideration, other measures of teaching skill are alS() used in evaluations of professors. Such measures include, • 'writing assignments, rigor, use of innovative or unusual teaching techniques, and gro11p teaching.\ The student course evaluati()ns are first reviewed by th..e chairman of· the respective department. They are then given to the professor for his e-xamination only after term grades have been distributed. AU untenured profeSSIHS are required to distribute the evaluations. Scoring well on course evaluatbns is crucial for any untenured professor hoping to obtain tenlll'ed status. Although tmtenured professors have the option.notto hand them out, any professor choosing not to may be · ltec:reasing his chances for merit- pay and or promotion. Political Satirist at Graduation To Speak Ceremonies By JON COHN The graduation ceremonies · for the class of 1987 will take place on June 14. The speaker (or graduation will be the political satirist Mark Russell, and there will bethree honorary degree recipients. Mr. Russell is well known for nis pian,()-accompanied repertoire, gea.red towards contemporary peUtics. His career began when he was a , piano player in a bar in Washington~ D.C. There he composed songs about the bar's notable customers. In the following years, Mr. Russell went on to !Jecome a popUlar resident l!omedian at the While recognizing some shortc()tnings and possible negative results of the form's relatively heavy weighting, Weine~ feels that they are useful; \Students have a right to participate in the process of · · professor evaluations.\ When asked whether he thought students were honest in their evaluations and not merely scoring co11tses well or not dependin.g on how difficult they are t<> receive a good grade in, Weiner responded that he felt students were mature in their Shoreham Hotel in Washington. · Today he writes columns for the nationally syndicated Los Angeles Times. Mr. Russell will recei~e .an Honorary · Doctorate of Letters Degree from Union. Also receiving honorary degrees will be Stephen R. Graubard, Rosabeth Moss Kanter, and Telford 'raylor. Stephen R. Graubard will receive a Doctorate o.f Humi:l.a~e Leiters~ Mr. Graubard, a professor of history at Brcown University, is an editor of tqe Brown University Press. He is also editor of DaedaltlS, the journal of the Ameri.can Academy of Arts and Sciences, R()sabeth Moss Ka!lter, class of 100() professor at the Harvard Bttsiness School, b!ls done pi~neering work in the field of or:ganizatioaal chan{le and cor{)orate entrepreneurship. She -will receive a D()ctorate of Civil Law. Telford Taylor is a lawyer and ~uthor of many ar1icles in tbe field. He was a chief nrosecutor of Nazis after WWII. He has a number of h()nelts from variollS col.Ultries. Mr. Taylor has taught law and now_ holds his own practice. 1\lr. Taylor will also receive a D()ctorate of Civil Law. .Tile College will aloo award 539 bachelor's degrees, 160 master,s degrees, !lnd one doctorate at graduati<ln. 1877 May 28, 198'7 Controversy Surrounding Campus Parki~g Continues ~a - Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations. 0 .c a. Recent Attention Initiates Parking Poll Student Grounds Committee Releases Results <By STUDENT GROUNDS COMMITTEE Member~ of the Student Grounds O.Ornmittee met with Dean of Students, Joseph Maliliilola, I>irector of Campus Stu. dents Agal .ns.t Operations, Jack Hill,· and Assistant Director of Campus Pav ·eme·nt Operations,.. Ken Relyea one week ago today. The primary p t topic of the meeting was the resen parking lot expansion con- Alternative troversy. The controversy stems frolll rumors indicating Parking Plans , that the ecXistmg parking lot between 'Wells House and By D. B. GULLIVER Kappa Alpha is to be expanded, The tents ·.are down, •but- the_ .. th\IS eliiQloating. a substantial Students Against Pavement portion · of a grass field. Members .of the Student (SAP) protest has at least in Grounds Committee im- part. achieved its objective. mediately ~()ught to ascertain l.eaders of the organization met . the facts and eliminate the . with President Morris yesterday and presented both speculativ<e rumors. In the their alternative proposals and process it became clear that the their petition with over 7 o 0 need for ad-ditional parking had signatures. SAP members originally lleen raised by the stress, however, that they are Staff Association which ready to return to the tents if primaril.y t•epresents the necessary. concerns ()f the clerical, SAP from the beginning said maintenaruce, and physical that their goal was to raise plant staff ()f Union College. The student awareness and that committee agreed that, if they would work to offer other possible, tile natural beauty of 1 · h k the campu.s should remain a S() ut1ons to t e par ing high fHitOrlty, and the problem. In a folll'-page letter elimination ·of campus greenery that they presented to President be avoided as much as possible Morris, they do indeed offer ideas that merit consideration, in seeking solutions to the · 1 ..1:- h f 11 · parking problem. me Uumg t e 0 . owmg: It was accepted that there is a Using College-owned vans to · t.~ a shuttle from larger lots to legitimate concern with parking administrative buildings. SAP at Union College. Solutions to the proi:)lem were then n()tes that most campuses that discussed. >One such solution is require much walking use a the possibLe reorganization d shuttle system of some sort. the existinc parlting lots. Thi~ Union already owns several ~ vansthatcouldbeused.forthat Continued on page 2 purpose in the mornings and idtetnoons, and dorms or other buildings near the larger parking lots where parking is available could be used as waiting areas for the shuttle buses. Specialized parking areas for certain employees. If parking is being built to accomodate the needs of \older\ or han· dicapped employees, those employees could be granted . special parking privileges near · their buildings. Reassigning student parking areas. This idea would require students in West, Richmond, and North to park on the north side of West or in the Richmond lot; students living in South, Fox, and Davidson would park in the Fox Davidson lot; this structuring would allow students in Alpha Delta Phi, Chi Psi, Sigma Phi, Kappa Alpha ~!nd Smith House to park in the Fox-Davidson lot as well. SAP rt:Jes not favor this plan as mucb Continued on page 3 · .lrt~:Tbis · · · .Issue ·. . . . Electi()ll ·statements ·.pg. 4: •. /, • 'Lett~~s·':to: the · Edit()r ~ ~.gs~ lF & 12 \ .· . ·. =· .· •· Ca~p ·Union . • =Pr~~iew pg. 13 ~~!:::~' :. '!TJ~, :f~o~k. ~f · ·. ~.~(. ·-: _!JreiJ=': pg~-:_:·~.o . : ... ·:. -:=:> .•• -. .-.· :-. : ·-:·;~=-- r: .- .·> .• . ::: .. : :: ·.• ·. . .;. . - .: .... ::· . . . .. - .•:• . .. . -.- _ .. :: .:;: <. . . -: . · ....... - .. <~::: ' ~~~~::: :~~~:1~ ::: ::~~:~~~\t~::; ~;~: }: ~ ~;:;·-~; ~:.:;~~;::~ ~;: ·f:~:::~:;_: ~itj:~ :;:~l~}\;Ji~f~J

Pa::ge 2 CONCORDllf,NSIS, May 28, 1987 ,Eva,uations Deemed lmporatant in Tenure, Promotion Decisions Faculty Amend Teaching Methods to Suit \5tudents Poll Indicates Students Are In Favor of Reorganization of Parking Areas C9ntinued from page 1 perclass parking congestion, reorganization might ·entail the particularly in the ·Fox- conversion of student parking · Davidson lots, yet still permit lots into faculty-staff parking freshmentohave cars at Union. C()ntinued from page 1 example of asking a freshman lots. Students' concerns were With these ideas ~ mind, the :Pl~asing 1nethod of teaching. He . in an intrQductory course raised by the Student Grounds Student Grounds Committee does ho\Wever admit that the whether the professor i's Committee members; in conducted a ·parki,ng poll on fm·ms may, unfortunately, knowledgeable of the subject. ,particular, where would the Friday, M~y 22., The parking di!;cotuCJ.ge professors from Generally, though, the forms dislocated stuclents park? It poll simply asked: taldng more risks in their .are considered valuable by both was discussed that students D{) you feel Union should: tea~bin,g methods, instead the professors and the ad- might be restricted to parkjng 1 a) Expand parking areas? m!lk.ing tbem opt for a more ministration in aiding of a on peripheral lots and freshmen b) Reorganize the C<lnservative technique. professors general evaluation. might be restricted to the Nott- availability of present parking One professor verifies Revised evaluation forms are Seward lot bellind Riclunond. area~'? (i.e .. student-faculty Weiner's assumption stating expected to appear by next fall. This would eliminate . up-. staff), that she was formerly out- r---~------.----------------------......._._.__.;;.--+ 2 .. a) Restrict freshman spoken()n feminism in class and . ·cam· p· us Elect I. 0 n parking: believes. that her outspokeness ·. · .• · • · . . · · b} Ban freshman parking? wrus• poorly received by students c} Not change freshman an the evaluation forms. She Res u Its In parking? ha~ sinee modified her approch · . . · · · · · . · . . · . . • · The results were as follows: in class as a result. While she (297 people participated) ,st!ltes that the students may Further Elections for 1. 7.\7 pet cent Expand halVe a ]JOint and believes that parking areas. theirodiscomfortrnayhavebeen Un~'illed Sp, ots Scheduled . 92.3 ,per cent Reorganize valid, she regrets .having to ';! 4 parking areas catter t() students predjudices. By STEPHANIE JARYNA Nelson, running unopposed, 2 .. 39.5 per cent Restrict fresh- When questioned about the captured 97 percent .of the vote · man parking existenee of continually low- Student Forum elections took· and will be one of three junior 33.7 per cent Ban freshman scmring professors, Weiner place on Friday, May 22, unde1• representatives to the Forwn parking. responded that there will . the Fitzhugh Ludlow Tent in next year. Sophomore . . . 26~8 per cent Do not change In addition to the poll,. com- . ments were solicited. · Responses varied;. though tl1ere . seemed t() be nwnerous replies suggestin:g that the Nott,.Seward · lot behind Richmond be. paved, • lined, and Ultuniilated to safely · • and efficiently accomodate more ears. ' The parking poll strongly . indicates that students are in · · favor of reorg;;tnizing . the . availability of present parking areas and that the issue of . freshmen having c.:ars n.eeds to be seriously addres~ed, (i.e., ' banned or restricted). With this : student input and a clear tin• . derstaruU:ng of all of. the issues involved, the Student Grounds · Conun:ittee will meet again .to ·; work out a plan that will' ·• bopefuUy be mutually beneficial for all involve~ parties. Your input is still'. welcome as it would be most helpful in solving this very controversial issue. Contact ~~ • · member ofthe Student Grounds Committee. Members are Jo!U1 . Delconte, Bill Hayes, LeAt~ Jackson, and Seth Michaels. inevitably be discrepancies. A Library Plaza. Judging by the :vepresentatives to the Forwn freshman parking. gomd professor may score low lack of voter turnout, one would will be Peter Costa, Keith .------------------------. be~ause he is a tough grader, suspect that the elections were Bemis and Chris Pike who BUDGET ALLOCATIONS 1987a88 for ex 1 amphle. ~t is dh~rd to say not a priority in most of the captured 61.4, 55.1, and 45.7 c L u..a. R.EQUESTE·D, ex;act Y w at 'goo · teaching Union· students' day. Only 462 percent of the vote, respec- . w · b k amnesty int. $1,050.00 IS., s;tates emer, · ut we now ballots were cast; many tively. Peter Costa, winning the wlnat \'bad\ teaching is. positions ran unopposed; there highest number of votes will arts club $2,750.00 Ther-efol'e a professor may be were no candidates for the also be president of the big bro $10,347.50 jU~!g.ed ~orthy because of var- position of vice-president of Sophomore Class. bio $2,310 .. 00 io11s quality he posseses that academics and only one can- According to Mark Webster, BLAS $15,735.00 students art not aware of, such didate for the three positions of J'unior trustee, ''Too many b $ 00 · h' ca··eret o.· as rigorous researc mg, junior representative. students are too quick to alth:ough he receives only Michae1Hiller,capturing66.7 criticize the actions of the cartrpunion $ 22 , 350 · 00 lukewann student evaluations. percent of the vote, defeated Forwn, but lack of voter tur- cheerleaders $3,000.00 The administration and review David Cope to win the position nout and the number of can- chem club $265.00 booarodsmust use their discretion · of Forwn president. Wendy didates who ran Wiopposed, choir $0.00 and judgEment in such cases. Endress defeated Louis John indicate that students are not circle k $3., 151.40 Weiner ·stated that nationally Wertalik by .20 votes to capture willing to give tile time to hold a 1· ff' $3 000 00 t . · f 'h easso 1cers , ·.·. pres lgl()llS pro essor s ave the two-year position of junior position or even vote. It is time be.en let go because of un- trustee. Jean Matus, running · for the entire student body to concert band $ 4 , 265 · 00 satisfae1my teaching methods, unopposed, is. the new vice- take action. The new Student concert comm $50,000.00 rn1>st IJotably a sociology president of finance. She won Forum invites everyone to con<:ordiensis $32,650.00 prlOfessm· a few years ago. 87.3 percent of the vote. The attendmeetings andvoicetheir crew $26,285.00 However. some diversity in position of vice-president of suggestions. This student in- dance club $0.00 preofessors is preferable, added administration was won by volvement can begin with better d bl · $4 326 00 W . . a nee ensem e . 1 · •. Emer • Gerilynn Mackey· who also ran . voter turnout at the run-off •m' · d · dutch pipers $845.00 ·\ emEr an varwus unopposed and captUI'ed 86.1 elections.\ pr<Dfessors feel that the present percent of the vote. The rtm-off.elections will take eco club $0 .. 00 evaluation forms may be Next year's senior place on Friday, May 30, in fencing club $3~317.35 ino.adeq11ate. Some criticisms representatives will be Jennifer Library Plaza. All students film comm $161250.00 hmve been that the questions do · Scully, David Cohen and should vote for a vice-president fitzugh $6 1 500.00 no;t aiCcurately assess a Colleen Adinolfi who won 51.6, of academics. and s.ophomores f h $1 322 00 \ ' t h\ b\lit d rene I •. pio~;.essor s. eac mg a 1 Y an 47 .6, and 44.8 percent . of the should vote for two additional · b $ 0 0 thoat tllC form may neglect vote, respectively. Kristen junior representatives. fns ee 11 20 · 0 various aspects of the gaming assoc $1,351.00 professor's proficiency. There E garnet $21,675.00 is also some discrepancy over . s.s·e ... n. e garnet minstrels $800.00 the validity of .some of the german $365.00 questions. Weiner ·Offers the 1· bl $1 010 00 gospe ensem . e , · . . Garnet Needs Pictures· Plee~se turn pictures int() Mrs. Marra, Third Floor Old Chapel. Pictures can IJe returned. \Mr. Wiseman has given the viewer a superb human cornedy-funnr, pathetic, touching, absurd, moving.\ Joh11 J. O'Connor, The NewYorkTimes. Frederick Wiseman's Award winning documentary about life in a benedictine monastery. Monday, June 1 - 7:00 P~M .• Free -Open To Campus Community -Sponsored by Department of Sociology! Anthropology and Campus Ministry. homecoming $2,443.00 idealist $7,300.00 idol $12,519.50 ire $4,545.50 isu $3,355.00 jazz ensemble $5,710.00 karate· $0.00 Lampoon $0.00 math dub $220.00 mens rugby $6,585.00 Mountebanks $11,080.00 outing $4,780.00 pep band $1,_910.00 philosophy $0.00 photo $710.00 physics $2,791.00 pre-health $0.00 pre-law $0 .. 00 psych $3,726.00 riding club $6,914.00 scuba $946.00 •. ski , $7,208.00 Social Alternatives $1-7,900.00 social comm $12,375.00 spanish club $100.00 speakers forvm $36,350 . .00 Sr. fling $2,,500.00 stoneboat $0.00 student activ $1.4,000.00 student forum $26,000.00 traveling club $100.00 video club $4,107.00 w2uc $2, 11s.o.o womens network $l, 100.00 womens rugby $2,823.00 WRUC $40,617.35 yoga $1,250.00 · ALLOCATED: $665.00 . $560.00 $7,072.00 $1,294.00 $2,480.00 $0.00 $19,000.00 $1,665.00 $185.00 $0.00 $1,235.00 $2,000.0Cl $1 ,962.0(] $26,000.00 $28,000. 0() ' $17,474.00 $0.00 $2,580.0() $595.0() $0.0() $2,977.0() $13,000,0() $6,000.0() $480.0(). $290.()() $485.0() $16,310.0() $330.0() $220.0() $81 0.()() $2,000.0() $5,000.0() $4,628.25 : $2,333.0() $3,355.()(). $2,940.0()· $0.0() $0.0(). $195.0() $3,860.0() $7,540.0(). $775.0(} $760.0()-: $0.0(} $320.00· $1,600.00. $0.00 $0.00! $2,461.00 $3,526.00. $845.00 $s, 13S,;.{)o $8,325.00. $4,001.00 $100.00 $100.00 $500.00 $0.00 $10 ,ooo .. oo .. $2,500.00 ; . $100.00. $2,823.00 $1,735.00. $795.00. $1,560.00 • $29,367.80; $525.00. ! I . ' ' :! ·.,. !· ' ~:~ ·-t ;, .; f• ~--. ·,_-1 t ,. i: ' •• ''i i 'i i · .. I ! .r· '•

Page 2 CONCORDIENSlS, May 28, 1987 Evaluations Deemed tmporatant in Tenure, Promotion Decisions Faculty Amend Teaching Methods to Suit ,5tudents Poll Indicates Students Are In Favor of Reorganization of Parking Areas Continued from page 1 pleasing method of teaching. He does however admit that the forms may, unfortunately, discourage professors from taking more risks in their teaching methods, instead making them opt for a more conservative technique. One professor verifies Weiner's assumption stating that she was formerly out- spoken on feminism in class and believes that her outspokeness was poorly received by students on the evaluation forms. She has since modified her approch in class as a result. While she states that the students may have a point and believes that their discomfort may have been valid, she regrets having to cater to students predjudices. When questioned about the existence of continually low- scoring professors, Weiner responded that there will inevitably be discrepancies. A good professor mC:ty score low because he is a tough grader, for example. It is hard to say exactly what \good\ teaching is, states Weiner, but we know what \bad\ teaching is. Therefore a professor may be judged worthy because of var- ious quality he posseses that students are not aware of, such as rigorous researching, although he receives only lukewarm student evaluations. The administration and review boards must use their discretion and judgement in such cases. Weiner stated that nationally prestigious professor's have been let go because of un- satisfactory teaching methods, most notably a sociology professor a few years ago. However, some diversity in professors is preferable, added Weiner. Weiner and various professors feel that the present evaluation forms may be inadequate. Some criticisms have been that the questions do not accurately assess a professor's teaching ability and that the form may neglect various aspects of the professor's proficiency. There 1s also some discrepancy over the validity of some of the questions. Weiner offers the Garnet Needs Pictures Please turn pictures into Mrs. Marra, Third Floor Old Chapel. Pictures can be returned. example of askiag a freshman in an introductory course \Whether the professor is knawledgeable of the subject. Generally, though, the forms are considered valuable by both the professors azad the ad- ministration in aiding <lf a jpr<lfessors general evaluation. Revised evaluation forms are ·expected to appear by next fall. Continued from page 1 reerganization might entail the conversion of student parking lots into faculty-staff parking lots. Students' concerns were raised by the Student Grmmds Committee members; in. pmiicular, where woUld the dislocated students park? It was discussed that stl:ldents might be restricted to parking on peripheral lots and freshmen might be restricted to the Nett- Seward lot behind Richmond. This would eliminate up- Campus Election Results In Further Elections for fJnfilled Spots Scheduled BySTEPHANIEJARYNA Student Forum elections took place on Friday, May 22, under the Fitzhugh Ludlow Tent in Library Plaza. Judgrng by the lack of voter turnout, one would suspect that the elections wer-e not a priority in most 0f the 1Union students' day. Only 482 ballots were cast; many :positions ran unopposed; there were no candidates for the :position of vice-president of .academics and only one can- didate for the three positions of j1lllior representative. Michael Hiller, capturing 66.7 percent of the vote, defeated David Cope to win the position of Forum president. Wendy Endress defeated Louis John Wertalik by 20 votes to capture the two-year position of junior trustee. Jean Matus, running ill1opposed, is the new vice- president of finance. She won 97.3 percent of the vote. The position of vice-president of administration was won by Gerilynn Mackey who also ran ill1opposed and captured 86.1 percent of the vote. Next year's senior representatives will be Jennifer Scully, David Cohen and Colleen Adinolfi who won 51.8, 47 .6, and 44.8 percent of the wote, respectively. Kristen Nelson, running unopposed, captured 97 percent of the vote and will be one of three junior representatives to the Forl:lffi next year. Sophomore representatives to the Forurn will be Peter Costa, Keith Bemis and Chris Pike who captured 61.4, 55.1, and 45.7 percent of the vote, respec- tively. Peter Costa, winning the highest number of votes will also be president of the Sophomore Class. According to Mark Webster, junior trustee, \Too many students are too quick to criticize the actions of the Forum, but lack of voter tur- nout and the number of can- didates who ran unopposed, indicate that students are not willing to give the time to hold a position or even vote. It is time for the entire student body to take action. The new Student Forum invites everyone to attend meetings and voice their suggestions. This student in- volvement can begin with better voter turnout at the run-off elections.\ The run-off elections will take place on Friday, May 30, in Library Plaza. All students should vote for a vice-president of academics and sophomores should vote for two additional junior representatives. Essene ··Mr. Wiseman has given the viewer a superb human comedy-funny, pathetic, touclung, absurd, moving.\ John J. O'Connor, The New York Times. Frederick Wiseman's Award winning documentary about I ife in a benedictine monastery. Monday, June 1 · 1:00 P·.M. -free -Open To Campus Community -Sponsored by Department of Sociology/ Anthropology and Campus Ministry. · ?'ialf.· p.:nv.v S:aturday, May 3U .. Cam:p tlni6n , U:JO a.m. We:stBe-ach.Barbeque. .. . . 12:t>O Notrn West Beach:. Bands: Able and Allen) Sm:.lt:ftereens. 9:00 p.m. Halt Hause. 21 Club. Sunday, May 31 6:30 p.m. College Center Senior Din11er. 7:00 p.m. Milano. Meditation For\WorldPeace. perclass parking eongestian, particularly in the Fox- Davidson lots, yet still permit freshmen to have cars at Union. With these ideas in mind, the Student Grounds Committee conducted a parking .poll on Friday, May 22.. The parking pol:l simply asked: Do you feel Union slilould: 1 a) Expand parking areas? b) Reorganize the availability of present parking areas? (i.e. student-faculty staff). 2. a) Restrict freshman parking: b) Ban freshman parking? c) Not change freshman parking? The results were as follows: (297 people participated) 1. 7.7 per cent Expand parking areas. 92.3 per cent Reorganize parking areas 2. 39.5 per cent R€strict fresh- man parking 33.7 per cent B.an freshman parking. 26.8 per cent D() not change freshman parking. In. addition to the poll, com- ments were solicited. Responses varied, tlilough there seemed to be numerous replies suggesting that the Nott..Seward lot behind Richmond be paved, Iin.ed, ami illwninated to safely and efficiently accomodate more cars. The parking poH strangly indicates that students are in favo·r of reorganizing the . availability of present parking areas and that the issue of freshmen having cars needs to be seriollSly addressed, (i.e., banned or restrk.'ted). With this student input and a clear un- derstanding of all of the issues involved, the Student GroWids Committee will meet again to work out a plan that will hopefully be mutually beneficial for all involved parties. Your input is still welcome as it would be most helpful in solving this very controversial issue. Contact a member ef the Student GroWids Committee. Members are John Delconte, Bill Hayes, LeAta Jackson, and Seth Michaels. BUDGET ALLOCATIONS 1987-88 CLUB REQUESTED ALLOCATED amnesty int. $1,050.00 $665.00 arts club $2,750.00 $560.00 big bro $10,347.50 $7,072.00 bio $2,310.00 $1,294.00 BLAS $15,735.00 $2,480.00 caberet $0.00 $0.00 camp union $22,350.00 $19,000.00 cheerleaders $3,000.00 $1,665.00 chem club $265.00 $185.00 choir $0.00 $0.00 circle k $3,151.40 $1,235.00 class officers $3,000.00 $2,000.00 concert band $4,265.00 $1,962.00 concert com m $50,000.00 $26,000.00 concordiensis $32,650.00 $28,000.00 crew $26,285.00 $17,474.00 dance club $0.00 $0.00 dance ensemble $4,326.00 $2,580.00 dutch pipers $845.00 $595.00 eco club $0.00 $0.00 fencing club $3,317.35 $2,977.00 film comm $16,250.00 $13,000.00 fitzugh $6,500.00 $6,000.00 french $1,322.00 $480.00 frisbee $1,020.00 $290.00 gaming assoc $1,351.00 $485.00 garnet $21,675.00 $16,310.00 garnet minstrels $800.00 $330.00 german $365.00 $220.00 gospel ensemble $1,010.00 $810.00 homecoming $2,443.00 $2,000.00 idealist $7,300.00 $5,000.00 idol $12,519.50 $4,628.25 ire $4,545.50 $2,333.00 isu $3,355.00 $3,355.00 i azz ensemble $5,710.00 $2,940.00 l<arate $0.00 $0.00 Lampoon $0.00 $0.00 math club $220.00 $195.00 mens rugby $6,585.00 $3,860.00 Mountebanks $11,080.00 $7,540.00 outing $4,780.00 $775.00 pep band $1,910.00 $760.00 philosophy $0.00 $0.00 photo $710.00 $320.00 physics $2,791.00 $1,600.00 pre-health $0.00 $0.00 pre-law $0.00 $0.00 psych $3,726.00 $2,461.00 riding club $6,914.00 $3,526.00 scuba $946.00 $845.00 ski $7,208.00 $5, l35e00 Social Alternatives $17,900.00 $8,325.00 social comm $12,375.00 $4,001.00 spanish club $100.00 $100.00 speakers forum $36,350.00 $100.00 Sr. fling $2,500.00 $500.00. stoneboat $0.00 $0.00 student activ $14,000.00 $10,000.00 student forum $26,000.00 $2,500.00 traveling club $100.00 $100.00 video club $4,107.00 $2,823.00 w2uc $2,115.00 $1,735.00 womens network $1 1100.00 $795.00 womens rugby $2,823.00 $1,560.00 WRUC $40,617.35 $29,367.80. yoga $1,250.00 $525.00

• < ' \ :'; l . .. ' ':I j I . ' l \ l< !' ,.j j' i' I '. ~ j ·! ! ,·l < :i i I l l I ' ' CONCORDIENSJS, May 28, 198\/. Page 3 Professors Sharlet and_ Huggins Comment On U.S·. Docttmentation on Afghanistan Admissions, Releases E:stimate:s On Incon1ing Freshmen Continued from page 1 Profe~sor Sharlet says that the Soviet violatio!lS while at the These steps inClude letter use of the disguised \toy\ bQmb · same time, having members writing tp. government officials, i~ well 9ocumented. ·It is · who favor aid to a group which fund raisers; and demon- questionable whether the is itself guilty {)If human rights strations in support of the bayonetting of women is a violations. Huggins says that if Afghan resistence. regular practice ot just an · she was in the Task Force's A little knowledge goes a long isolated incident. The dropping . position, She ~·would join By R. REED WHIDDEN ~peaking with Ann K. Fleming,. way in understanding the of people from helicopter:s and · Amnesty International to fight member of the admissions motivation and goal of .Senator the shooting of civilians is a human rights violations Change is something Uni<m is I:Joard, the freshman class of Humphrey in trying· to get his very possible occurrence; but • throughout the world.\ It is becoming accustomed to. One 1991 has many differences as letter published in school one which is a cornponent of a . · more important to attack the of the biggest changes Union \'ell. Fleming says that \this newspapers. Robert .Sharlet, war in. which the enemy is problem on an international · Will face this year as every '\Vas a funny year for ad- professor of political science, unidentifiable. Sharlet points · front. Anything less seemsto be year, is the graduation of the :missions.\ The yield of students said that we do support the out that we committed similar · motivated by pc:Jlitics not human senior class and the addition of applying was up 40 percent. Afg.hanrebelcause in the form atrocities in Vietnam. rights concernB. the new freshman class. On This year, there was an in~ of anns, which are funneled Martha Huggins, professor of ·f----------~------- ......... ----~-~------i.:' crease in applications and the through Pakistan. However, it sociology, questions why . SAP I S · 't f C • ', •t:fllality of applicants went up. Would not he in anyone's in- Senator Hfimphrey is so con- . . . . ' n . pIn . 0 . 0 m p r 0 m Is e ' : There are some rea.::ons for this. ter:est to let that fact be: lmt>Wn cerned with atrocities com- . · Either Union is getting a better Since the Pakistanians fear mitted by the Soviets but blind s t 0 .ps Protest' presents .p Ian s < pod of applicants, this new Soviet invasion. People also to civil liberties violations in , ·generation is just smart.er, or know very little a:bout events in Chile, El Salvador, and ator· Continued. from page 1 . ,: ~udents are applyin~ to more Afghanistan because . the cities committed by the Con· because it benefits staff at the and that the plans would reduce .: e!Olleges. There was also an Soviets do not e<llow Western tras. One of Humphrey's closing expense of students. the amount of .grass on a : 1 \ iEcrease of applicant3 from reporters to. roam around the statements, \(Afghanistan's) Disallowing freshmen to have campus that had already seen ·: .()utside a 300-mile radius (If the country. Unlike Western press · struggle for freedom is our cars. SAP does mt particularly considerable construction. · College. A broad estimate of the coverage.ofthe Vietnani war in struggle,\ is reminisGent of the favor this plan, either, because The campout began Sunday • number of applicants is 3,000, which people saw the battles on stance taken by Contra .sup- freslrn'len do n()t park in the .afternoon May 1.7; before the : tli:Je number accepted is ap- the six o'clock: news, the Soviets porters. As Professor Sharlet area needed by staff and this night was over, Security had . [lrox:irnately 1 ,500, and the are not about to show what is says, most of the Task Force woUld not do much to relieve the requested that the tents· come · 1111mber that will actually say going. on in the war. . members are, at the very least., . problem. down. The refusal was met with : ·~yes'' to Union is estimated to Senator Hwnphrey's claim of not against support for · the . Tennis court. relocation. The a fine, addressed to Kappa · be between 520 and 540. Fleming Soviet atrocities is .probably co.ntras. Professor Huggins tennis courts on the east side of Alpha, for the reasons that the ·, alsc commented that Union will founded but is also used as a tool finds a contradiction in the Kappa ' Alpha would be tents were put up witbout : accept a few from the wait-list. to g_ain support fDr his cause. committee's crying wolf over . relocated in tile northwest authorization and that the ·• .. --llllilii----.---------------. corner of campus~ behind Rich- stakes could damage un- · • Concerning next year's ad- THIS CAMP'S FOR [Jj} .. Cam:p Union T-Shirts on sale N·ow. Friday, M'ay 29 - Movies 8:30. ~.i __ brary Plaza Warner Brothers Cartoons Hepo Man Rocky Horror Picture Show Saturday, May 30 • Barbeque 11 :00 a.m. West College 1 :00 p.m. West Beach Ban·ds .- .West Beach Able and Allen- 12:00 p.m. Joan Jett and the Bfackhearts - 2:00 p.m. The Smithereens-. 3:45p.m. Student ID should be carried at all times CampUnioll lrrJ.Vq OF SPJUNG· mond, or near other athletic derground Wiring or pipelines. ·: tnission pr:ocess, Union hopes to facilities, In the northeast SAP member Tom Walsh ~87 ~j<Jy a 15 percent increase in corner of campus. The fonner said that \if we thought they • aJ)plications just as Bates has in courtswouldberepaved. Inthis (the tents) p<Jsed a safety tlle past. For classes to come, case, the total number of problem we would have taken tile admissions board would like parking spots wollld remain the them down.'' Kappa Alpha has b see an increase in the nwnber sa:rne, but par king where maintained tllat the protest is of women (which is up two needed (near administrative not a house activity; SAP is a percent)~ more geographical buildings) would increase. separate organization that diversity, while keeping the The Sit1.1ation\s History inclu,ies several members of percentage <Jf New York State Kappa Alpha but many other applicants at a healthy level, The students tllat eventually students as well. and an increase in minority formed SAP me11tion that one According to Walsh, the tents ~pplicants. · morning the found stakes came down not due to requests placed in the lawn near the or fmes, but as a sign that SAP Kappa Alpha !louse. Those is willing to listen to and WOI.\k · stakes, however,. were not in- with the administration; The ' dicative of immediate con- administration, he says, has struction; instead, they were also appeared to compromise. placed so that President Morris After initial disapproval of the would be able to better visualize protest, the C<illege bas dropped the amount of ai.\ea on~ parking .plans of a large parking lot proposal called for. · Dean ex:tension onto the lawn and is· Mammola, not .responsible for now considering a smaller 30- planning, checked with Mr. Hill foot extension. However, and told Rob Blinkoff that the perhaps SAP's proposals will site was one under con· halt all such plans. If not, Walsh sideration for f11ture lot con- adds, SAP \might well continue struction. their protest,\ an action that The students' conc.ems were received local television that construction was planned coverage which was limited at and that the plans were never SAP's, not the College's, announced to tile communit request. Another requirement ap- pUcants will face is that of an inierview. Fleming states that th<e personal interyiew really \Works well for the admissions 5tBff, \It gives us a chance to learn some personal in- formation and. it gives the student a chance to see Union.\ • FO.r those students who are too far\ away, Gavin Mort<Jn, who \ii\'ill be the Assistant Dean of Adrn i s s i o n ' s A 1 u m n i Allmissi()ns Coordinator, will set up alumni interviews for t.llem. Hopefully, this new :reqllirernent will not create a · ,IJral>lem in this area. Congratulations To The Facwlty Orientation Advisors For OrientatiCJI11987 ~~-------FOA----------- Janet Anderson Julius Barb.anel Suzanne Benack Ed Crai,g Kenneth DeBono Martha Huggins Hugh Foley Sigrid Kellenter Douglas Klein Bradley Lewis \ Jan Ludwig John Marincola Lawrence McGahey Joyce Ml:lckenfuss Byron Nichols Susan Niefield Dwight Phaup Camille Qualtere Willard Roth Steven Sargent '0A's Shelton Schmidt Ted Schwarz .Robert Sharlet Karl Zimmerman Linda Stanhope Christine Sorum Hilary Tann Leon Tatevossian _John Laursen Stanley Kaminsky Stacey Rosel')field ·Chris Chihlas Kim Hancock- And'! Friedrich Robin lsserles · M\ichael Hiller Lis a Tortorello· :Rich Gersten Kenya Lenoir· Bruce Hopkins Sue Shaffer- A lex Gardner · Michele Maratto- Brian Epstein IIana Hand · Darrih D' Agostino Gretchen Wirth· Carter Edgerton Michelle Van Patten· Tom Muzzonigro Nancy G<>u:ld · Beni Wolf Amy Rosellthal· Rich Capriola .:;wynne Richards· Cathy Markes Pam Conners- P·eter Scott Mary Ann ·Dunham· Derrick Berry Nanci Redman· Rick Crews Pam Dzikowicz · Conrad Tatge Linda Cava nna · Tim ·Matthews Lisa Ka.tz -Chris Sheridan Christine Donnelly· Brei Bissell Cathy Litvack- Pat Larkin Karen Wersten · ~hi I Hess Christine Hong· Jeff Berkowitz Judy Price· Lesllelv\orris Lisa Ordower · David Coh€n Mary Talar.ico ·Scott Russell Lisa Galati · Tod<l A<lelman Debra Dicker· Todd! Harder Geri Mack.ey · RooDanziger Beth Turney- Marty- Cepkauskas ---,...._---The 1987 Orientation CommitteE:------- Becky Whidden Julie Liebmann Kristen Ry.an .Mark Hutchins Kevin I rl and Helen Golightly StephaniE Jaryna·co chairman Wendy Endress Marjorie Hoffer Steve Rock Jane Kissel-co·chairman Kevin Decker Kath Nyhus

CONCORDJENSIS, May 28, 1987. Page 3 Professors Sharlet and Huggins Comment On U.S. Documentation on Afghanistan Continued from page 1 These steps include letter writing to government officials, fund raisers, and demon- strations in support of the Afghan resistence. Admissions Releases Estimates On Incoming Freshmen A 1ittle knowledge goes a long way in understanding the motivation and goal of Senator Humphrey in trying to get his letter published in school newspapers. Robert Sharlet, professor of political science, said that we do support the Afghan rebel cause in the form of arms, which are funneled through Pakistan. However, it would not be in anyone's in- terest to let that fact be known since the Paki:)tanians fear Soviet invasion. People also knGw very little about events in Afghanistan because the Soviets do not &llow Western reporters to roam arolUld the country. Unlike Western press coverage of the Vietnam war in which people saw the battles on the six o'clock news, the Soviets are not about to show what is going on in the war. . Senator Humphrey's claim of Soviet atrocities is probably founded but is also used as a tool to g_ain support for his cause. Professor Sharlet says that the use of tbe disguised \toy\ bomb is well docuooented. It is questionable whether the bayonettin;g of women is a regular .practice or just an isolated incident. The dropping of people from helicopters and the shooting of civilians is a very possible occurrence, but one which is a component of a war in w:hich the enemy is unidentifiable. Sharlet points out that we committed similar atrocities iJ1 Vietnam. Martha Huggins, professor of sociology, questions why Senator Humplwey is so con- cerned vvith atrocities com- mitted by the Soviets but blind to civil Ul>erties violations in Chile, El Salvador, and ator- cities committed by the Con- tras. One{)f Hmnphrey's closing statements, \ (Afghanistan's) struggle for freedom is our struggle,\ Ls reminiscent of the stance taken by Contra sup- porters. As Professor Sharlet says, most of the Task Force members are, at the very least, not against support for the contras. Professor Huggins finds a ~ontradiction in the committee's crying wolf over THIS CAMP'S FOR (Jj} Camp Union T-Shirts on sale Now. Friday, May 29 - Movies 8:30 Library Plaza Warner Brothers Cartoons Repo Man Rocky Horror Picture Show Saturday, May 30 - Barbeque 11 :00 a.m. West College 1:00 p.m. West Beach Bands.- West Beach Able and Allen - 12:00 p.m. Joan Jett and the Blackhearts - 2:00 p.m. The Smithereens-3:45p.m. Student ID should be carried at all times CampUnio1l J.rr:rv-G OF srft.1NG : Soviet violations w:hile at the same time, having members who favor aid to a gr()Up which is itself guilty of hll..Ir.Ian rights violations. Huggins :;ays that if she was in the l'a.sk Force's positior., she ''would join Amnesty Internati()n~J to fight human rights violations throughout the worl<l~\ It is more important to attack the problem on an in.ternational front. Anything less seems to be motivated by politics aot human rights concerns. ByR. REED WHIDDEN Change is something Union is becoming accustomed to. One of the biggest changes Union will face this year as every year, is the graduation of the senior class and the addition of the new freshman class. On SAP, In Spirit of Compromise, Stops Proiest, Presents Plans Continued from .p :1ge I becaase it benefits staff at the expense of students. Disallowing freshm.en to have cars. SAP does not particularly favor this plan, either, !)ecause freshmen do not pal'k in the area needed by staff .and this would not do much to relieve the problem. Tennis court relo~Cation. The tennis courts on the east side of Kappa Alpha wo11ld be relocated in the aorthwest corner of campus, behind Rich- mond, or near otller athletic facilities, in the n()rtheast corner of campus. The fonner courts would be repa VElcl In this case, the total n u:ml>er of parking spots would remain the same, but parking where needed {near admirli.strative buildings) would increa.se. The Situation's Hlstory The students that eventually formed SAP mention that one morning the foul!d stakes placed in the lawn near the Kappa Alpha house. Those stakes, however, WEr-e not in- dicative of immediate con- struction; instead, they were placed so that Preside11t Morris would be able to bettei visualize the amount of area one parking proposal called fol'. Dean Mammola, not respmsible for planning, checked with :Mr. Hill and told Rob Blink()ff that the site was one under con- sideration for futurE lot con- struction. The students' concerns were that construction was planned and that the plans were never announced to the mmmunity and that the plans would reduce the amoW1t of grass on a campus that had already seen considerable construction. The carnpout began Sunday afterRoon May 17; before the night was over, s'eclll·ity had requested that the tents come down. The refusal was met with a fine, addressed to Kappa Alpha. for the reasons that the tents were put up without authorization and that the stakes could damage un- derground wiring or pipelines. SAP member Tom Walsh '87 said that \if we thought they (the tents) posed a safety problem we would have taken them down.\ Kappa Alpha has maintained that the protest is not a house activity; SAP is a separate organization that inclu,ies several members of Kappa Alpha but many other students as well. According to Walsh, the tents came down not due to requests or fines, but as a sign that SAP is willing to listen to and work with the administration. The administration, he says, has also appeared to compromise. After initial disapproval of the protest, the College has dropped plans of a large parking lot extension onto the lawn and is now considering a smaller 30- foot extension. However, perhaps SAP's proposals will halt all such plans. If not, Walsh adds, SAP \might well continue their protest,\ an action that received local television coverage which was limited at SAP's, not the College's, reqllest. sp~aking with Ann K. Flemiitg, member of the admissiol1s bo~rd, the freshman class of 1991 has many differences as welL Fleming says that \tllis was a ftmny year for a<l- mission:;.\ The yield of student::> applying was up 40 percerc.t. T'his year, tbere was an il1- r••ease in applications and the .;, uality of appliccmts went up. T'here are some rea.~ons for this. Either Union is gettil:~ a better I><JO] of applicants, this new generation is just s:nar ter, or stttdents are applyin;~ to rwre edleges. There was also an increase of applicant~ fr<lJ n outside a 300-mile radius nf tlle College. A broad estim\te of tlu number of applicants iJ 3,(}()0, the munber accepted rs ap- proximately 1,500, and the n urn ber that will actually ~a_y \yes\ to Union is estimated l'l bE between 520 and 540. Fleming als() commented that Union will accept a few frorn the wait-list. {;()neerning next year's ad- mission process, Union hopes to e!ljoy a 15 percent increase in applications just as Bates has in thE past. For classes to come, the ad!nissions board would like to see an increase in the numbEr: of women (which is up tW() percent), more geographical diversity, while keeping the percentage of New York State applicants at a healthy level, and an increase in minority applicants. A11other requirement ap- plicants will face is that of all interview. Fleming states that the personal interview really W()rks well for the admissions staff, \It gives us a chance to learn some personal in· formation and it gives the student a chance t() see Union. \ For those students who are too far away, Gavin Morton, wh() will be the Assistant Dean of Admission's Alumni Admissions Coordinator, will set up alunmi interviews for them. Hopefully, this new requirement will not create a pro blern in this area. Congratulations To The Faculty Orientation Advisors for Orientation 1987 --------FOA-------- Janet Anderson Julius Barbane I Suzanne Benad: Ed Craig Kenneth DeBe>~o Martha Huggins Hugh Foley Sigrid Kellenter Doug.las Klein Bradley Lewis Jan Ludwig John Marinco!a Lawrence McGahey Joyce Muckenfuss Byron Nichols Susan Niefield Dwight Phaup Camille Qualtere Willard Roth Steven Sargent Shelton Schmidt Ted Schwarz Robert Sharlet !Carl Zimmerman Linda Stanhope Christine Sorum Hilary Tann l€on Tatevossian John Laursen Stan ley Kaminsky Stacey Rosenfield- Chris Chihlas Sue Shaffer- Aloe>< Gardner OA's Kim Hancock· Andy Friedrich Robin I sserles · Micnael Hiller Lisa Tortorello- Ric 11 Gersten Kenya Lenoir· Bruce 1-iopkins Michele Mara t,t-o ·Brian Epstein IIana Hand- Da rr-in D' Agostino Gretchen Wirth - Carter Edgerton Michelle Van Patten ·Tom Muzzonigro Nancy Gould- Be mi Wolf Amy Rosenthal - Rich Caprio Ia .:;wynne Richards- Cathy Markes Pam Conners- Peter Scott Mary Ann Dunh-arn - Derrick Berry Nanci Redman- Rick Crews Pam Dzikowicz ·Conrad Tatge Linda Cavanna- Y·im Matthews Lisa Katz· ChrisSheridan Christine Donnelly· Bret Bissell Cathy Litvack ·Pat Larkin Karen Wersten- Phil Hess Christine Hong- Jeff S.erkowitz Judy Price· Leslie Morris Lisa Ordower- David Cohen Mary Talarico· Scott Russell LisaGalati ToddAdelman Debra Dicker· Todd Harder Geri Mackey· Rob Damiger Beth Turney· Marty Cepkauskas --------The 19870rientation Committee:------- Becky Whidden Julie Liebmarnn Kristen Ryan Mark Hutchitls Kevin I rlanct Helen Golightly Stephanie Jaryna-co chairman Wendy Endress Marjvrie Hoffer Steve Rock Jane K issel-co-cha irman Kevin Decker Kath Nyhus

Page 4 CONCORD lENS IS, May 28, 1.987. Student- Forum Election Statements Vice P,resident of Academ·ic Affairs ( ~) Junior ·Represe~tative (3) Jeff Berkowitz: In search of sigQatures for my petition to become a candidate for the posit ion of Vice- President of Ac.curlemics, many fellow students were unaware of the fact that tb~re was to be another election, or who had even won last ~eek's election. I believe that lack of interest in the Student ForlUil stems from the lack of :faith students have in its pO>wer. Students' seemingly limitec role in ad- ministrative ded~ions such as Gel-Time and 11ew curriculum proposals give Union little reason to have faith in the Forwn that repre;gents them. It is frustrating, b11t it can change. There is no 1eeson that our student government need be a .passive organizi:ltion. In my three years at Union, I have come across many faculty members and administrators who are genuinely interested in student opinion .. If the Student Forum could mor·e competently and aggressively- express im- portant student positions, then · the faculty .a11d the ad- ministration just might have to take notice. I wollld like to play a part in conveying the im- portant student p()sitions on the issues that most affect us, especially in reference to academics. Nobody knows 'What we want out ofour four yEars here better than ourselves. The Student Forum is here f()r us, I sincerely belive that we c:a11 use it to our advantage. Aaron. Carrel Here we go agai.i\· •.. I may owe you an ex- planation, so let me make a short story long. Last week I aimed my efforts towards the positcon of senior represen- tative to the Student Forurh, to play a role in the up~oming year of new policies. This was until I learned. that no one had sub- mitted a petition to run for the office of . Vice President of Academic Affairs. I decided - this was a position· where ex- perience on the Forum would be a great advantage, and con- cluded that my experience s_hould be put to this better use. The next step was to pull from the ballot of representative and submit a petition for Vice President. However, it was too late to remove my statement from last week's Comcordiensis, so here we go agairl ... The approaching academic year will be one of new procedures for everyone .. The implementation of Gel-tm!-e, and the new gener-al education curriculwn will result in ex- tensive administrative and student review. I h()pe to see an assessment and evaluation that includes a great deal of student input. u a(flaar11ro 7r (fl[f)J re is on Tuesdays not Mondays MUSJCAL EXTRAVAGANZA COMMENCEMENT EVE ACTIVITY . The Law, Order and Justice Center of Schertectady ts sponsoring -the Northeast's .first Drum and Bugle Corps cometition of 1 987 featuring the: Buccaneer.s; Caballer?s; ·Hurricanes; Sk:yliners; and Sunris~rs. The ftv~ competmg corps combh€d have won the Nattonal Champ1onsh1p 6 of the last 10 years. . . . This \kick-off classic\ wtU be held Saturday, ~une .13, 8 p.m., at Heritage Park, Colonie, NY. Donation 1s $7 (Community Box Office .or Drome Sound). For further information, call. Dean Damels x6232. . ...... . Help Wanted Immediately: Program Manaper· to run refrigerator rental program at Union. Practical business experience with a national company. Please contact Steve Fischer at 301/699-9264. Call Collect!! FOR SALE 1968 FORD M!JSTANG (Black), 289 V-B; GT Hood, auto trans., -dual exhaust, power steering, AM-FM stereo cassettet with equalizer, alar'\ system. Runs excellent. 8()dy js in very good condition, no rust, aluminum wheals, raised lettered tires. Nust sell be.fore end of school. $1,700 or best clf~r. Call lC6835. Lisa aark The most important facet of life at Union is academics. The changes which· the Academic Affairs Council make affect what we take for classes, how we register for them; and even at what times they meet. The Vice President for Academic Affairs serves as a liaison between the student body, the StudeJlt Forum, and the Academic Affairs Council. As an effective member of both the council and the fortim, the vice president can voice your opinions and vote on such topics as Gel Time, preregistration, and academic dishonesty. I have served a year on the Academic Affairs Council and would like to continue to serve as the Vice PreSident of Academic Affairs. Many changes are being made on the academic life at Union. Studf,mt involvement in these changes is essential. Thank you for your support. No Exit By Jean-Paul Sartre 8:00P.M •.. Nott Memorial Theatre Tues. May 26th Fri. May 29th Free Mike Van 'tltrn My name is Mike Van H()l\''l and I am running for ~t:he office of Junior Class RepresEntativll. It will be my jcb .as y()mr. representative to comr:nll!lie:,ate your opinions and sugg:esticlis to the Student ·Forwn rEgai~d:ir!g important i~ues affe!!tfng ()!II' class. The new housing btteiy system, the p.arllin~ lot proposal, and the use cftlleue'!W College Center are a f~-vr major concerns of our class. This year I have been !Ill officer at my frater~ity~ a11d through this positiOll· I 'bawe learned to listen to poople a11d respect their opinions I thill:k I could do the S!lrne for tbe Junior Class. Not i:nany people rei:ilb;e it ds the jQb of the represe1.1t.atives to • budget money givenc. t() ille class. With this m«Jner we cllll plan activities for our class, a!ld I will work toward pla:l!ning i:IS many activities as pos.sLbLe f()l' th(l class of '89 A class representative's responsibilities are twof~l<l; lltJt only does he representthe -clar;s · on the Forum, bt1t al:s~; rue allocates money fer C!lass .ao· tivities. Vote for me, !11ike V'a.n Horn, and I will do my :!Jest to dlo the best job for you. JGe Voylicky Hi! My name is JiJseph Voytick:y. ant I am running for J unior'Oass :Representative for the '87;!88 school year. This positioll is iirnpol1tant because comm11nic~tion between the studentsaudthe Administration is Dne of :the t11most .importance. Since l have ·been at Union I have ·bee11 irlvolved with several sports teams and clubs. As a member ()t tbe various teams and clubs,. I have become very aware of all! student concerns. As our ·class representative I will sta:y ill close contact with my classmates and will be an effective re]Jr-esentative for the class of l!UJ!l.Remember to Vote Voyticky iit the upcoming electiOJt. Miclte.lle .Maratto All dar l(lllg today I have wandered ar~und West, Hale and Lit.rary :Plaza recognizing faces ancl asking, \You are a sophorn()r-E; aren't you? Will You Sign my .petition for can- didacy.? \ In ·doing this I came into contact with one hWldredof you,· and it struck me that ol.ll' class is a txu1y llnique and speCialgrGilp ()f people, one that I would bE ]Jroud to represent. As your-liaison, I will see to it that your illterests are ef· fectively l:lear-d and recogni~ed. Thank: y-()u, Michelle Maratto. Com,r-Dittee Appointments for 1987-88 Committee Appointmensts for 1987-88 Academic Affairs Council Todd Harder Gwen Wallace Keith Bemis Academic Computing Sub- couacn David Shinberg . Kristen Dawson Admissions UafSon Alysia Dashef Paul Levine Concert Committee Rich EngdMI, Chair Ian Cooke, Chair Diwakar Jagannath William Craig William Boyd Conduct Comtnittee Scott Klares, Chair Debbie Byer Lindsay Swenson · Donna Lanzendorf Lisa Galati David Orlando William Ennist Kevin Decker Committee on Committees Kevin Decker Filni Comtnittee Peter Leventhal, Chair Kelly Park,. Chair Jay McCarthy Pater Lambert Barbc:lra Statsny Atbletic Liaison E:velyn Sullivan Mark Zinttnerman Finance Committee Steve Rock Helen Teresa Golightly Kim Hancock Human Subjects Committee Ricbard Kinsella Resear~h andG~nt <Jommittee J!Ja.nne Mc.AnW'ews Pl amntng a11d Pri.:~rities . C~IDmittee Chr-is Rua Suz.anne Lacllelier lR~nd Moneleone S()lcbl t:ommitt~ !K:lm Quirk, C!J.air 1CI1uck McGavem, Chair .Arthur Beren~aU!Il. :N.ancy Weist 1\:ri:sta Nelson S~Jclal Alternatives ~tephanie Larios, Chair P,alll. Levine R.ita Clemerrt C~therine Forth Xristen Smith Stulleat Affairs (oiJJlcil C~rrie Cerr()nE Jlllie Liebman. R.icllard .Howa:rd Spe:akers Board J()!1 Gertsrnan., Clair Steve Klein, Chair Curl Nassa11 'rom Coleman .J11dith Irish ~llllldiilg of Studeiits IC.e'Vin Ramp~ 'J.eff .Berkowitz Wendy Zimrnernaa ~~affic -& Pet c~wt. Debbie Byer, <li111r &:!len Rapplerea 'riraa Scioccbetti 811ldeat Groumds (()llllDittee S.eth Michaels LeAta Jackson lJetll Deaner !Job Charlap .Jeff Klitz J olm Delcornte

CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 Page 5 * Those IntrePid Ludlowians By ALE:X ST,EPIIENS dulgence in heuo:ilism with beer, · grain punch and· what have you. · The thought~ II() d()ubt, at the back of everyone's mind is, gosb, didn't Ftt1Jlugh suffer for us' in order tllat we may be allowed to cO!lgtegate, without a permit, in :front ,of those defenders of U11hon .security and perpetrators .()f consistent · judicial blindness While they scan. the crowd'? 'The boys in blue patrol but no one really cares. They may break up a couple groping ill the dark~ but so what, this is a, Victori~n era of social more:s. FEATuRES j;, ~i Some 11::lings NEVER change It is Union's own indiginous · brand of celebrati()n, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, when the campus is (!ry and T-shirt sales soar and, as in the past few years, a band plays at West .Beach, followed by outdoor movies on Library Field. This year it was a true memorial tO> our old trn£t;ee and prohibition sym- pathizer with the s.:Jvering sound of Blotto and their plethor;;t of vivaciolls and thO>ug)lt.-ptovoking tlllles. The cr():wd's response to these Febels from Albany: sit on the W!lll by the flag pole or the field and let the .freaks or the groupies groove. to the metal Sollrld and piercing voice of . the lead singer, then yawn ami, perhaps, have a drink or a d~se .of other st·imuli. Then, suddenly; the crowd stirs, it is Blotto's: big hit, ''I Wanna Be a Life Guard.'' One dedicated Fitzh~ugh follower does a beer funnel under the t:ree!l. Soon, he is joined by an entourage of Ludlowians and they become entranc::.ed _ b<y a mystical oneness With Mm. \Fitzhugh where are yo11?\ They seem to · Flashback to ... Preregistration 1973 . \Help Me! Help Me!\ indeed. Th~ crowd wakes up into a terrible, maniacal frenzy , .imagining they're in the video ofthatarcane song. Sut, e~sepic r()ck and roll goes, tbe song is ovEr (as is the cr()V\d's en- thllsiasm) and th.e yawns continue. The Schenectady ni,ght covers the campus with a starless dark blanket. Good enoug:h t() show the movies on the frcmt of Scllaffer Library. In the past, certainly not the recent past but the past all the same, Fitzhugh Llldlow Day has been com• pletely dry, void of alcohol. In the past, fraternities 1.1sually waited unti112:0l a.m. to start the taps flowing that amber foamy libation and tbe serving U!) of the pastel colorecl punch from old trash cans (of course thEy did, wouldn't you?). But c(}mmittees proliferate, as us11al, and the time for alcohol allowance is pushed forward a few hours, say nine, or eight o'clock. £ting's face covers the win- d()WS of the Phi Beta Kappa room in the library · and his progpessive jazz ensemble re:b.earse for their Paris debut gig. The crowdhasm<>Ved to the gr-ass in front of the libra)'y for a g<lod vantage point of the st!l'een, sitting on the ground or C()UChes or tmder the small trEes. There's no gt()up par· ticipation, none is called for like th~ overtly lackluster dancing to the \Time Warp\ last Camp U11ion. There is simply in- DELTA CH,I TIE-DYE CABARET Ton:ight -·· 9:00p.m. Old Chapel · be asking· · in a sardonic but sincere way. Rowdy, ram- bunctious grliaps of males wrestle about ·()In t:he grass, a few scream dtstaste with fihn, but Sting's falsetto voice reso11ates meelkiy over the crowd with litt1e or no effect. It's ~mly a movie, after all, and not the real thimg. The evening rolls on. The crowd is content. Sort of a Union Student Be.,IIl with everyone doing their OWII! little thing in small groups, microcosms of a college social scene. David Byrne's face, shaded by a big cowb<ly hat, a~orns the screen and he talks abo11t a small town in Texas. Seenes of middle America flashes <Jn the screen with the soft intellectual, althollgh not overbearing, voice of Byrne accom}>anying it. The crowd begins.to tbin out with a few committed Ludlowians still practicing tlleir prand of celebration, :horuorihg the man. But ,it ends a!; peacefully as it began. The Cl\owd gets geared up for the ne:xt afternoon and evening. And still ah,ead, a short week away, )()oms the long awaited presen!Ce of a mere rock legend. A woman who needs no introdllction, only restre~int. Yes,. tndeed, we love Rock & Roll. By KIMBERLY HANCOCK Flies Have Dirty Feet .... In the depths of my imagination 1 couldn't im~gine what a course with that title could entail. Even more W1 believable was that 1 was holding a UNION COLLEGE registration listing and one of the courses was indeed titled Flies Have Dirty Feet. It is unnecessary to go tearing through your wastebasket in search of the most recent course selection sheet or go st()rming the Registrar's Office - It's ton late! You missed it l Flies Have Dirty F-eet is CLOSED (and has been for 13 years). If you're wondering how 1 : happened upon a 1973-74 course . listing, the story is as bizarre as . the courses offered that year; After many grueling hours at my desk, it wastirne for a study break and a new form ()f · procrastination was in ordEr. My head was swimming with facts about wage rates and as 1 stared at my desk, 1 remem- bered something that my fresh- man roommate and I had d()nE that year. While preparing to leave for the swnmer I pulled · my de.sk drawer too far and ottt it fell revealing quite a collection of papers and A Fitzhugh band. The Philosophy Forum In C()nnunction With The Union Philosophy Dept. Hosts Professors Wieck And Shumaker of R.P.I. For a Discussion on 11 Anarchism and Everyday Life~~ Tonight 7 P.M; Dav.idson Lounge All Are Invited. Refreshments Will Follow. paraphelUllia which had been sucked l!nder the drawer. Freshmm year, the prize find was a $10 bill and as I stared at my desk C which must be at least 25 years old) I decided once again to g-ive it a try. This time! discovere:d 14 years of in- teresting odds and ends, but disappoiniingly no ffi()ney. I began sldmming through the papers wllen Flies Have Dirty Fe~t jumped off the page at me. That is vrhen this story began. The titles of the courses were intriguing, prompting me to wonder if that Union College was the same one which I am presently attending. After all, Intelligen.i Life ~the Universe, Commw:liiies and Utopias, and ESP, spiri1s and Spontaneous Effects Sol:il1d quite a bit more entertainfng than anything I have take11.in three years at this Union OJiiege. Once again I referred to the title of the document to be sure it was Union College, as it turns out, it was, but e part of a seemingly different Chapter in the life of the college-the early 70's. As I W!covered through my research in the Union College archives, each incoming Fresh- man was required to take one Freshmam elective in Htunanitl.es-8ocial Sciences and on in Science and Engineering. . Sound$ li~e some early f()rm of . Liberal LEarning, right'?? Well, in effect it probably served that purpose, lrut current freshmen in search of a B or D credit did not have these choices: Fan- tasy, Seience Fiction and Future, Communities and Utopias, SeH, Sex and Civil Disobedie11ce, Uses of Past or Flies Ha\Ye Dirty Feet. In ad- dition, those seeking an F credit are without these choices: Lights anll Visions, Maps and Mapping,. Intelligent Life in the Universe or What is Science? After milch cross-referencing in the archives with help from ' Library Assistant Joanie McLoughJ!n, I was disappointed to find that the course descriptici11 of Flies Have Dirty Feet was: destined to remain a secret. It seems that de~cripa tions for the Freshmen Elec- . tives WEre handed out at Orientati(}n and were probably \tossed\ soon afterward. AU the facUlty to whom I have spoken clluckled when I men- tioned Files Have Dirty Feet and divutged that it was taught by the Dean of Students, but all . claim ig:norance of what the course actually entailed. I was,b()wever; able to obtain course descriptions of tbe more interestill~ courses offered that year. ESP, .S(lb-its and Spontaneous Effects: IIistorical and Critical examina.tion of purposed evidence f<>r both spontaneous and .eJtperimental para- psychological phenomena in· eluding telepathy, clair· voyance, psychokinesis, mediumship, poltergeists and related effects. How Thillgs Work: Devices and effects in the everyday world from lightbulbs to lasers and lightning. Emphasis on fundamental principles in- volved and direct experience with devices. An onions Americans: A study of beliefs, assumptions and concerns which have affected American life as reflected by popular art, family life, work experience- and technology. Effigies: A studio course in anthromoiphic sculptures, busts, robots, idols, puppets, snowmen, totems, scarecrows, masks, C()stumes and trans- formations of the hwnan likeness. Playgrounds.: A study of aesthetic designs ranging from a child's playground to how you arrange your room and home, reflecting your ideas of per· sonal comfort. To add to ·my discovery of such seemingly obscure cow-ses, I was also surprised to find the Modern Languages department had 7 pages full of course offerings, which in· eluded six classes offered in Chinese. The sizes of the class offerings from many depart- ments has fluctuated, but just as many tbings have changed many have remained the same. As I scanned the list of of· ferings, I repeatedly came across names of profess()rS which are familiar to me: Nelson, Hansen, Hartwig. Schick, Underwood, Ullman. Aubrey, Martin, Steckler Sorum, Phaup, Prosper. Kershner, Jonas, Berk, Thomas, Warde, Baker, Tid· march, Nichols, Board, Boyer, Gati, Board, Lambert, Rogh. Schaefer, Scaife, Weick, Hull, Werner, Zimmerman, Bick, Titus, Craig, Huntley, Calabria, Girdner, Panlilio, Shanebrook., Ketchum and probably many others that I have overlooked. Remaining along with many members <lf the faculty are numerous courses which we all look forward to taking during our four years here at Union. Two favorites: Sex and Sexuality and Fluid Dynamics of Turbomachinery have sur· vived thr()ugh 14 yeat·s of transition at Union College. .Almost making it to 15 years from 1973 was having classes from 8:30.1):20, 9:30-10:30 in the traditional manner-Gel Time. was probably never considered. All in all, I have learned a great deal about another era in the history of Union College and heartily suggest that everyone pull their drawers out and look f()r a bit () f history.

-,_ Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 FEATURES 0 -- 0 ..s:: a. 1ii (i) Passing- the lifesaver Dana Foundation Funds Internships By CATJ{Y BEDNARlK great hOnor to be awarded one. [t should be stressed that these are not research -internships :but a chance to worlt closely with professors and Department Heads asSisting with relevant criteria. Let the Games Begin! By MARJORIE-HOFFER The Dana Foundation has awarded Union C<JHege three s~parate .grants ~ach with a specific purpose. The first grant is used to provide scholarships to worthy students who receive financial aid. In order to obtai,n such a scholarship, one must be nominated by a professor after which the financial aid office makes· awards. The second Dana .gtant is used to provide students with a chance at doing summer research. This is a three year grant with the stipulation that Union will continue the program when the Dana money .is no longer The w.,.y the program works as follows, departments sup- plied information and job descfi.ptiQns to the Dana Committee Who .made the in- formathm available for students receiving financial aid. These stacients were sent ap- plications :and were asked to return completed applications With three preferred depart- ments to the Dana Committee by 5: 00 May 22, 1987. Selection is then conducted by specific departments. Appro~ately 45 students will receive these intern~hips. This was my very first time pal'ticipating in the Delta Gamma Olympics. At .first, I was especially looking forward to getting my shirt. However, as the time drew near, I began anticipating the rivalry bet- ween teams that would pull the true athletic qualities out of my noll-athletic system. It took our team quite some time to find a .team name. (We finally came to be the \Pain in the Necks!') And even though our banner had special personal qualities aoout it, we did not win the banner competition. Sad, but true. Alas, we took it in stride, and won the events that spc:~ke befit about the team. We cap- tured the Jello-eating contest, and bought -our way to the top, by selling all of our raffle tickets. We tried our hardest to pass Lifesavers quickly, squeeze a sponge hard,. six down fast, blli.ld a pyramid, and run an obstacle course in record time. And even though we were coached by Cathy Markes, ''The Pain in the Necks\ never captured more than a single Reese's Peanut Butter Cup. Boo Hoo. Instead, we lost to the Filmbusters, Skellar B.ig Adventure, and Alien Sex Fiends (whc, Imayadd,had the greatest team· song). It's OK, we did not need seven free pizzas from the pub. I would have preferred it I had won a manicure from at least one of all those raffle tickets I sold to myself! Our team was in the best of health, with one of our members even checking out at the chiroprilctor before at- tending the games. No, I did not slide down the Jello slide, but I had a good time anyway. With my pretty royal blue \Pain in the Neck\ team shirt, I won't The sisters of Delta Gamma would like to thank the following sponsors who contributed prizes to the raffle held on Friday, May 22 at the 9th Annual D .G. 0 lympics. Over $700 was raised to benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the B li11d. Thanks to al 1 who particpated to make this annual event such a hugh success! Stewarts D-B·A Langes' Pharmacy Hoi iday Health Polenz Sentry Hardware Northeast Savings Adirondack Balloon Flight Capital Cinema Corporation Status Quo Brandywine Diner • Golden Crust, Schenectady Gordons Jewelry 1 Ramada Inn 1 N'Y Bagel Co. Steaks Etc. . Union St. Lunch Dor.is Remis Flowers Dotti Gallo's Sweet Tooth Hoi iday ·Inn Ben& J erryts Blue Ribbon Restaurant Mr. B's Flowers Goodings Skin System Twins Motor lnn-1 Creations Athletes' Foot · Majestic Beauty Salon Biblomania Center State Deli Paisa Mis-er Gershon's Deli Anaconda Kaye Time Center Jewelers Manhattan Exchange Luigis 1 Restaurant Arby's Robin's Nest Sa Ia macks Wallace Armery Radio Shack Henry's Sport Center Time Warp Simons Men/sWear Fanny F<Jrmer Candies Sacketts The Exchange Hand& Heart Lou Planes/ Auto Woodlawns Hardware D&D Antiques Graubert& Sons Jewelers Boston Store Drome Sound Open Door P roctor 1 S· Sacketts Strawberry's Records The Laundry Room 2129 Uan Urank:en Hue., Schenectady OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 7 A.M.-9 P.M. MON.-FRI. 8 A.M.-8 P.M. SAT. & SUN. PHONE 382-8566 • Featuring SPEED QUEEN washers & dryers For Your Convenience .•. PICK-UP SERVICE Available for Wash Dry & Fold ever forget the D.G. Olympics. available. The third Dana I might add that .participation grant, also a three yee1r grant, is in the games makes Fitzhugh 1lsed to -fund the teaching and Ludlow Day a bit more special. . · program internships. Don't let four years go by The ~oal of the Teaching· without being on a team at least and Program Intemships is to once. And you need not be an \give those students eligible for athlete to win ... Our team only financial aid opportunities to came in fifth place; and we workoncampusatjobsthat will certainly were serious Olympic . be more challenging and material. Obtaining a spot for relevant to them -than the your team was the most dif- · typical· grant-in-aid jo.bs.\ ficult thing to do. I suggest you · A second goal of tile program capture a group ()f five males is to give students a chance to and five females to make · obtain, experience and teach certain that next year you too pOssible career choices. These will compete for the thrill of · internships are very com- v~ctory and the agony of defeat. petitive and it is considered a Adam and Rob: Students receiving these internships will be paid up to $5.00 per hour and will hold typical r.esponsibilities of teaching assistants. Since this is such a competitive program, students and professors whO partiCipate Will be evaluated each tenn and evaluations will be sent to tile Dana Foundation as part of their requirements for continued funding of the program. A Farewell to U By ADAM EMERSON and ROB BLEIFER Hi. We've returned for one last grandiose correspondence with the Union community. It'S obvious you've missed us, so we won't dwell on it. We urge you to enjoy this article, for the next time you see us in print you'll have to pay $19.95 for the soon to be published \Adam and Rob: Two Fats on a Hot Tar Roof.\ It's a riveting tale of the trials and tribulations of two young fats from the Bromc But enough of that, we've given away too much already. · Meanwhile back at the newly built ranch, A tint Martha hosed manure off her b<Jots after a long day of fertilizing. In case you're wondering who Aunt Martha is, don't because It's really none of yoU[' business. If we wanted to tell you, we already would have. Suffice it to say, she's a kindly woman who truly knows. that bigger really is better. Now we'd like to take time to get some things off .out chests and ask you some questions for a change. How do they set a perfect \m\ on every M&M? Why is Prof T all talk and ·no 9112 Weeks Has Been Reschedul,ed For Tuesday, June 2nd / At 71 9, ll in .S·SOl6 Admission $1.00 action? Why are our mothers so queasy about ants all over our kitchen? How long will it take before we're as fat as our fathers? Why is.Union College the only institution in America that's open on Mem9rial Day? Would you get wet if you parachuted through a cloud? Why are tllere bagpipes played at graduation? Why is this section of the article done? Meanwhile back at the ranch, after hosing manure off her boots, Aunt Martha slipped into a slinky silk negligee' an· ticipating tile arrival of her two house guest1l. Suddenl:v, Adam and Rob got really tired <lf writing. Rob said \Boy Adam, it's really getting late and this is going nowhere.\ Adam replied, \So true, Rob, and in fact, w~ really never did like writing. Tonight let's rap this up and go spy on the neigh- ' bors.\ - Meanwhile back at the ranch, sporting ber slinky negligee, Aunt Martha slowly led Adam and Rob to tile hot tub. Suddenly Aunt · Martha's. b-eautiful daughters appeared- naked in the doorway. Rob's eyes bulged, Adams~s jaw dropped and he ' said, \That b~ the butt Bob.\

CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 Page 7 FEAT'URES Summer at Union By LORI IUCH:AitD So, wh~t bappens to Union College after J,un~ 10? Everyone packs up to leave for the summer;. some of us return for the last great .party of the year • graduation · .But what then? Do.es Union Colleg.e become . a campus void of life and activity? The truth is just the opposite. What most students don't know is that a wide range, ef programs and activities are offered at Union during th~ swnmer. In addition teoffering a full program of day and evening courses at both the undergraduate · and graduate levels;. Union offers a variety of special programs for students age eight. to senior citizens over the age of 55. One · of the more unique programs. The College Experience,. is a six-week prograrni:or bigh school juniors and seniors,. designed to give talented students an · op· portunity to gain a hea<l start on college. Eighty students :from across tile · cl,>lmtry participate in the program, and take two coprses; Freshman Pr~cept 10 and another course Which they may choose from a number of Union's regularly .listed co1,1rses. Students participating in this program, whieh is of· fered during July' live m college dormitories, eat in campus dining halls, and have access to most buildings on campus. Two alternatives to the College Experience at Union, are the College Experience in Cambridge, developed in conjlln(ltion with Cambridge. University, England·; where students spend two weeks on the Union campus in Schenectady, and four weeks in Cambridge while eaming college Ct'edit; and a College EJ(perience program. in France where students spend two weeks at Union, and study for four weeks at the University of Tours and live with selected French families. Other summer events at Union· include a series of summer technology institutes for engineers, scientists, and educators. The. ·technology institutes, which take place in July, have been hosted at Union for two decades, and courses are taugbt by leading experts in their respective fields. N(Jn·credit courses for per· sonal or professional development are also offered at Unim over the swnmer. These inClude a nwnber of non-credit short courses and workshops whi<!h are offered to business professionals,teachers, and the general public. Courses are offered in Marketing, Management Develo.pment, Small B'usiness Management, Word .of Caution BY SAMANTHA BRODY and ALYSIA DASHEF \It was her first fraternity .party. The beer flowed freely and she h~dmuch more to drink than sl'Iehad planned. It was hot and crowded and the party spread ollt all over the house so that when three men asked her to go up5tairs, she went with them. They took her into ·.a bedroom, locked the door, and began to undress her. Groggy with alcohol, her feeble protests were ignored as the three men ra~d her; When they finished, · they ptit her in the . hallway, naked, }()eking her clothes in the bedroom... This incident oc- curred at a Sinall Eastern liberal arts college.\ This particular occurrence did not happ.en at Union College ... but it could have, for no institution or individual is inumme to rape. Rape, whether it occurs in a dark alley; on a date, or at a party is still a serious crime which is punishable by a jail sentence. The legal definition oJ rape is, \a victim having sexual in- tercourse against her will and without c-onsent.\ 'Although men are also vic- tims of this horrible crime, the main tar~ets are. women; and the probl-em seems to be over- whelJning at colleges and universities. Because of the increasin~ incidence of rape on the campus, it is important that all .stude11ts are aware of the severity of this problem. Unfortunately, mere awareness of the iss11e is not likely to have an effect on the problem. It is . imperative that the potential victim. be able to identify the signs of a possible impendin:g rape; but this in itself is not enough. The potential victim must also take responsibility for remaining in a state to be able to do so. Alcohol and other 'party' drugs dull one'£ senses, and make it more di:fficult to detect on- coming danger. Consumption of drugs or alcohol, however, is not an excuse for rape. A woman who is drUrikis not 'asking for it' any more than a nuuuvho i~ <!!'unk 'can't control his actions'. Rape is a violent crime, and should; be considered, such regardless of the circumstances. In a 1985 Ms. Foundation study, there were 7,000 female students polled at 35 colleges and universities. Of these 7,000 women; one quarter of them were victims of rape or at- tempted rape. Of these 1, 750: women, 9(). percent knew their assailant. Far worse than these statistics is one overwhelming fact which cannot be oveilooked. In approximately 80 percentof the·reported rapes, the man does not· think that he has commited a crime. In fact, many of these men place the blame on the woman. It .must be understood that when a woman says no to sex, she meansit. A forced violation of this decision is blatant, outright rape. Fortunately, there are many trained professionals who can help if a rape· is, in fact, com- mitted. In this area, there is a rape crisiS. center which can be reached 24 hours a day at 346- 2266'. If you are raped, you must get medical attention· ·im· mediately... the coWiselors at the rape crisis center can help you with information, or sup- port if you need it. Remember, if someone is raped, it is not something to be ashamed of. Rape is a. crime committed· against a vicmn, just the same as any other violent crime. It mllSt be stressed that rape cann()t go away if it is ignored. I..oolting the other way can only indirectly condone this crime. Be aw~e of the problem; and never forget that no one is ·in- vuJb.erable when it comes to rape. After reviewing this article, both Dean Mammola and the Panllellenic Council of Union College have endorsed its publication and have pledged their support for increasing campus a.wareness of this issue. Together, we plan to implement . a number of new programs concerning rape in the orien- tation pmgram for the Class of 1991. We encourage everyone's ~upport. Computers, Arts and Historic Crafts, Health and Fitness, and Excursions. In addition, for two weeks in August, Union offers a .senior seminar, which includes a variety of courses to senior citizens where participants live and study on campus. Also, tllis summer at Union, the I,.ogo Institute and Con- ference - a learning en- vironment for adults who wish to deepen :their knowledge of :Logo, a language for learning- will take :place from August 3- 16. The institute, designed for Logo\using educators, from beginners to experts, awards participants four graduate credits for their work. For ycunger children~ a program ~ailed Sununerskilll is offered at Union during the month of July. Designed for elementary stude:t;~ts in grades 4-9; the J)r,ogtam provides a combined experience of recreation and learning. The program, which runs for two one-week sessions, offers either a full or half day and studen~s may select courses from among choices such as: Rocketry, Robotics, Chemistry, Painting, Creative Writing, Acting, and many others. In August, also, a nwnber ()f sports camps are held at Union, which include a baseball clinic and football camp for boys and girls in grades 7-12. · Program Director Kenneth Blurne With all of these programs summer an•d with the addition taking place at Union during the of the new gym, he expects the IllOnths Clf July and August, the summer of '87 to be better than campus is far from quiet. In ever. Additional information on fact, as program director summer programs are Kenneth Blume states. there is available im Wells House, and often difficulty meeting all of Mr. Blume :(located on second the demands for housing and floor, Wells House) encourages other facilities during the anyone who· is interested in the swnmer months. Blume is very programs, or has any questions enthusiastic about the special to stop by and meet with him. programs offered at Union this The Modern Language Department And The German Club are pleased to announce A Lecture By the German Writer Walter Kolbenhoff Walter Kobenhoff, born 1908 in Berlin, spent many years in exile in Denmark !because he had belonged to the Communist Party when Hitler came into power. After the German invasion of Denm<Jrk in 1940, he fought in the undergr()und, since 1942 in Yugoslavia and lta.ly_l n 1944, he was captured by the Americans in ltaiy and sent as prisoner of war ~o the United States, where _he spent two years in various prison camps. He returned to Germany tn 1?,46 and bec~m\: very acttve in the literary life of postwar Germany as member of the \Gruppe 47 , an organ• zatton of young writers interested in the revival and furthering of German literature. WaIter Kolbenhoof will speak about hi.s experiences and in_volvementsifl ~'German Literary Life in Postwa.r Germany\ The talk, in German, followed by a discussion and a reception, will be Tuesday, June 2., at 1 :30 p.m. in Hu 119 \ All German speaking members of the community are cordially invited to patrticipate in this spec ia I event. Seminar for Seniors LLR-1'60: SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND MORAL CHOI:CE: THE DILEMMAS OF THE MODERN WORLD (Profesors Peter Heinegg and Bradley Lewis) The,course is a new seminar for seniors; the inaugural theme is \The Tragedy ()lf1he Commons: Technology, social Arrangements, and Prospects for Ecological Disaster. C<lin~ide;e~.\ T~e course will examine the views of both technoiogical optimists and technologtcal pessm~tsts (1.n eluding both scientists and those in other fields) concerning. the prospects for human soctety, and such current controversies as rain forest destruct-ion, acid ra~n, an.d population control. _Do solutions exist? Are they technolgical? S.ocial/poli.tical? Econom1c? Wil! man ernd by destr~ymg the earth? Class time will be split between discussion of common readt~gs an~ presentatton of indiVidual projects, which will require substantial iA~~pendentwork. T.he tnten! ~sthat tt:lestudent will emerge with an understanding of both the scient the and technologtc~l. rea It t.1ces of the modern world and .the moral implications of decisions to use, or not to use, spec1f1C compJonents of scten tific knowledge and particular technologies.Openonly to seniors, but no.restrictio11son major.

' ·Page 8 Concordiensls and WRUC would like to thank tne following businesses for their donations to Big Brothers/Big Siste·rs in support of our softbaU game, please return th€?it support • by patronizing thei~r . businesses. Come . watch the Qame tomorrow at 4.:00 on the Ubrary , Field! * 1125 BARRETT ST SCHENECTADY, NY 'I' I' ' t t., , 1 '' \• '' f\\f\.\\' • CONCORDlENSIS, May 2~, .1987 LUIGI'S RESTAURANT ;· OPEN NOOf\J~10:00 P.M. DAILY • CLOS EO TUESDAY . ~~ • ~ : .I I FINE ITALIAN-AMERICAN DINING : i * i! OVER 30 YEARS Telephone 382-5429 ·rJ·. ·.·.•rJ··_ .. ····.·.--.·•_:·~, -.· .. ~·- ·,' ' ' : ' - - : . .. ' ' ·: ' . - .: -, ' - . . - . ' ~ - The Qpen. Door w-G6~~ ~m J46-27l9 B.o·cllJ·~ Bllfs&Breefl~g Ca rda~Paxters The Cranberry Bog Resfaura.nt & Bar S>e·rving Union College for 3 generations with 3 Union g-rads in 1he family! Open 1 Days A Week 56 Wolf Road Colonie Hershel Walter .Maurice B 459-5110 JY\aUr:·IC· e B. Grauba·. rt .&. ·sf\\hc:' \Union's Jeweler For Three- 1...11 o 166 Jay st. Generations\ 1902 VanVranl<:en Ave. And Stephanie's Try Use •. You'll Notice The Difference! ! Schenectady, New york 12308 Decorated Cakes For All Occasions! Tuesday-Fr,iday 7-5 Saturday 7-4 SPORTING GOODS 121 N. BROADWAV, DOWNTOWN SCHENECTADY 382-2037 .• ~ m- Congratulations Graduates! Free Beachirr Bag with Vuarnet Sunglasses From Your Sports Headquarters itle JA,ftiiS · are'\ _Golf _Tennis _Fishing _.Camping _Trophies _Ski _Hockey _Swim _Water Ski RacketbaH _Squash Footwear _Exercise Purchase any pair of Vuarnet Skilynx, Nautilux:, PX-2000 or PX-5000 sunglasses and receive a FREE Vuarnet-France I..e Sac. ' This offer is good only as long as the supply of Le Sac la.sts. . : ' '' ' -:• ' ' ' •: I ' i i •I ' i I '' . .: -: aAsKIN ·noaa INs I:CE CREAM 1400 Altamont Avenue, R~tterdam Phone: { 518) 355-31:11 Open: 11 a.m. - 10 p.m. 7 Days a Week· 31 Flavors!~ • , and Tons of Specials! \1-++--f-+-+-.f-+-1-+-1 J OJlDERS· ~e GO ] .PIZZA • SPAGHETTI DINNERS BAKED LASAGNA • MANICOTTI . VEAL & ~GG PLANT .PARMIGIANO HOME Sl'YLE SAUCE S MEAT BALLS ITALIAN SAUSAGE- FRIED PEPPERS \ITALIAN STYLE CHICKEN\' SUBMARINE & TORPEDO SANDWICHES · C.ALZONE \PARTY & FAMILY PIZZA TRAYS\ COLD CUTS - SALADS BEER TO TAKE OUT . \FRESH BREAD & ROLLS DAILY\ ~~~~~ OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 10 A;ftll.-11 P.M.; MONDAY'S 11 A.M.-8 P.M. FRI. & SAT. TO MIDNITE \ASK ABOUT OUR PARTY SPECiAL$\ 372-7270 II Busy 370-3735 1007 VAN ANTWERP RD. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ( CQRNER OF ) UPPER UNION ST

I CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 Page 9 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Astronomer Visits Union The Rings of Saturn By DIANE STUBBINS Last Thursday Professo-r Anthony Aveni· of Colgate University was. the guest lec- turer at Union College's weekly physics colloquium. Dr. Aveni is an expert in .tbe field of an- cient American astronomy, and has written three books on the subject-two of which can be follnd in Schaffer Library. He became involved in this very specialized field after leading a student trip to Mexico 20 years ago. There he .saw firsthand the ruins of the ancient Mayan civilization. the visilbe position of Venus that had gone mmoticed by western astronomers. Aveni told the audience that the Mayan astronomy was closely tied to Mayan religion. All four of the Maym:t texts which remain intact are about astronomy and religion. In deciphering Mayan hieroglyphics, the symbol for the male god, Venus, appears frequently. The death and rebirth of the god are ap- parently patterned after the way Venus seems to disappear as it passes behind the sun and then emerges after eight days, Although the Mayan astronomy W<,~s religiously inspired, it was mathematically based and allowed the May to make ac- curate predictions of the motion of Venus. By ELLEN TAPLEY For over three hundred year$ the rings of Saturn have amazed and intrigued astronomers. The rln.gs have been the scurce of much mystery, and only recently, with the Voyager ex:plorations have astronomers been able to better understand t}Jis uni.que, spacial phenomenon. . The rings of Saturn were first foWld in July of 1610 by Bali! eo GaJilei, but were initially rrilstaken to be moons. Since tl1en, there have been various explanations for this \:;heet of disk-Hke matter\ that ac- G{)n'lpanies the planet. Finally after much deliberation, astronomers have cDi:lcluded tbat it is a conglomeration of r:in:gs that rotates about Saturn, With a rotation rate different from the planet itself. Observations have proved that there are seven major ring sections, ho·wever, as they are named in the order of their discovery, .their labels do not directly coincide with their relative positions. In and amongst these predominant rings, there exist thousands of individual ring~,. These rings stretch over 65,JOO kilometers, yet their thickness is known to be quite small in comparison- a few mere kilometers. Each ring pattern has tts own struc- ture, and within each of these structures there exist many different physical components. Besides size, mass, and density, the rings differ in that some have \spokes\ ( resulting from a possible cdrnbination of magnetic and electromagnetic forces); some concentric, or elliptical features;. and still others a \braided\ design, all of which combine to make the overall ring pattern. The exact origin of the rings is not known, however, most astronomers advocate the theory that at some point a satellite, orbiting too closely to Saturn was crushed into pieces; and thus, this remair.ing debris has since formed into the system of rings as we know them today. This accepted theory makes a great deal of sense, as the composition of the rings closely resembles that ·of the 17 existing satellites which continue to orbit Saturn. The material involved, is a water- ice combination, with the possibility of other additional substances. During the recent Voyager trip, this theory was furthered as radio waves were sent to test the composition. The results from these experiments which involved the in- In his introductory remarks, Aveni stressed that much can be learned by studying another culture and its approach to the sciences. The ancient Mayans lived on the Yucatan peninsula in Central America almost 2,000 years ago. When western ex- plorers first came upon the Mayans, they were repulsed by the Mayan practice of human sacrifice and cannibalism. However, the .Maya had ad- vanced knowledge in the fields of mathematics, architecture and astronomy. Biophysics Research At Union . vestigations of a scattering pattern of ring particles, Sllp- port all previous evidence of the rings' ice-like compositions. The focus of Mayan astronomy was tlle tracking of -· the planet Venus .. Using a base twenty nwnerical system, the Maya were able to record the period of day,s 584, for Venus to revolve around the Sun and re- align itself with respect to the Earth and Sun. The Maya, however, pres11mably were ignorant of the . planet's revolution and thought that tbe planet would disappear and cerned with the visible ~pattern of a recurring 5-year pattern in By ERICH MARZOLF Although many students consiqer Union to he primarily .a teaching school, most professors have ongoing research projects often in- volving students. Two such professors Jay Newman and Kenneth Schick of the physics department received a three year National Science Folln· dation grant of $125,000 this past fall. > Newman's and Schick's research involves studying the protein actin using laser light scattering techniques. A con- tinuous blue•green argon laser· is used to send light through a solution containing tbe sample of interest dissolved in water .. Stars .of the Local System By TOM SARTINI A fairly new technique has arisen within the past century for studying the distribution of stars that is little known about. It is believed that the nwnber of stars within the nEighborhood of the sun is about half the nwnber of stars thaf lie across the galactic plain at distances of around 3500 light years. This concept of greatEr amounts of stars and star clusters away from the sun's neighborhood is known as the local system. Before the local system was termed, there were many practicing astr()rtomers and · scientists who · had their own beliefs concerning the amount of stars and their locations in the galaxy. Sir William Her- schel believed tllat the Milky Way contained more stars than that of the outer regions of space because the stellar nebulae was n-ot :uniformly distributed over the sky, but was extended at both ends of the MilkY Way. It <lid not seem logical to him that these groupings of stars could be out any farther; Then a different approach was taken by J. C. Kepteyn; He counted groups of -. stars in manY,locations with the SWl as the center. His mappings were believed to have included the entire universe at the time. However, this theory was quickly ended when Harlow Shapley's work argued that the sun was to be nowhere near the center of the galactic system, . but that the center was foi\'Iled' of a heavy distribution oi blobular clusters. Finally, Bart Bok came along, and in 1937, he gave a different angle to the belief that stars appear to be greater in number near the sun but only since there is such a great amount of absorbtion. Evidence was formed to prcve that in- terstellar d11st existed and d.irruned the light of distant stars, making them haFder to find. This is especially so .at great distances · because the brightness is different from . stars closer to us. These dim-· , :mer stars, which are thought to be greater in number, were either overlooked or were just not visible at all. Bok, therefore, formedthetermlocal system as the outer groups of stars beyond the sun's neighborhOod of where stars are easier to see. Physics Department Colloquium Today in Steinmetz 106, 4:30 Refreshments, 4:45 Lecture \The Angular Momentum Problem in Star Formation\ Dr. Stuart Vogel Dudley Professors of Astronomy Department of Physics Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Fr~rn the scattering of the light tile size, sha})e, and molecular weight of the sample can be determined. This technique has tile advantage that the sample is not perturbed in any way. ~cth1 is not only found in mascle tissue but also m every cell, too. This biopllysieal research has great potential to . get information about cell cytoplasm such as how it can stFeam and what its consistency is. Results have been obtained on the monomer units that cowpose the protein. The next part of the projed, in collaboration with bioch.emists in Albany, will study the structure of the actin polymers and network that they can form. Three students will be working on the project through the summer. Already, the group has given a presentation in New Orleans this past February and a publication is in the works. Doing research at Union offers many benefits to students that are probably not available at a large in~itution for un- dergraduates. One gets valuable out-of-classroom experience involving a real problem. There are no lab manuals to baby your way through an experiment. You have an opportunity to call upon and use knowledge from other classes or situations. A benefit that research offers is that it can help one get int& a good job or graduate school but even more importantly, you will know what real science is like. Finally, the rings of Saturn are a unique system which astronomers hope to learn more about in the future. With the incredible successes from Voyager's recent journey, the possibilities seem endless. Support For The Space Program By SCOTT GQLDSMITH Advancement in space research and technology isn't only for the satisfaction of the curious scinetist. Today'~ space program plays an ~integral role in our government as wen as our personal lives. During each day, everyone interacts with the space program. Many television broadcasts are \via satellite\ and most weather conditions have been predicted by information gathered from satellites orbiting our planet. Most of the news we hear has been sent by satellite to aJl parts of tlle globe. Without a doubt, satellites have kept the job of relaying information an ex- tremely quick one. Satellits also help in the search and rescue of lost planes or ships in distress. The location can be pinpointed when their beacons emit a homing signal Which is received by the satellite. Communication by satellites also has a more secretive side which helps to keep the United States a safe place to live. High technological snooping is a very important function of satellites. From hundreds of miles into space they're able to. see most anything, even license plates. They can take a relatively clear photograph of individuals, too. Often their \eyes\ are watching military bases, missile sites, submarine activity, or con- struction areas. Tileir main goal is to inunediately detect The Death of A Star By CHARLES·OLIVIER B0CH Recently in the nigllt sky ab()>ve the Southern Hemisphere, in Chile, . a Cmadian scientist obsen'ed the explosion of a star in the Large M.agellenic Cloud, situated in a neighboring galaxy. Last time a phenomenon called a supernova olltburst, had been seen was in 161(J by K;epler. With modern eq.tlipment, we can c see s11pernova remnants (after the explosion happened), but never has any scientist witnessed the actual explosion. A few hours before the ex- tilcsion could be optically ob- • • • served, scientists in Japan, in the USA, in the USSR and in Italy recorded a very high level of neutrino emission (massless, chageless particles moving at the spped of light) from the region of the supernova. This event is regarded as the birth of neutrino astrophysics, a new area of astronomical research such as optical astronomy and radio astronomy. It may .seem sw:prising that light reached the Earth after neutrinos, light moving at the fastest speed in the universe. However, neutrinos have no mass, and, therefcre, can escape the core of the star any threat to national security. Satellites are an important part of life today. Collecting scientific information from other space probes, weather detection, communication, and defense are all functions of today's satellites. The high tech spying will hopefully help deter any thoughts of first strike warfare. The satellites of today will someday be obsolete; they'll need to be replaced by even better and more efficient structures. Support of the space program is essential for the advancement of science as well as the protection of peace. Space is the \final frontier\ and through the help of satellites maybe we'll discover ... Utopia. Live! faster than photons. There are two types of supernovae. Type I has a maximum luminosity of a billion times that of the Sun, and Tupe II of 600 million times that of the Sun. When the supernova in the Large Magellenic Cloud exploded, its luminosity did not reach that of Type I or II. Its luminosity declined rapidly. It is not understood what happened. However, on the whole, our theories on supernovae have been con- firmed by the explosion of the star of the Large Magellenic Cloud, even though a lot has still to be learned about supernovae.

Page 10 Olnllf]}rbirnsis Foundtd ot ( fmon- Coll~e 1/17:' ·---- -----.-···>- Images of '86-'87 This is our last issue ofthe year, and it's been quite a year at that. As Tuesday night fades into Wednesday morning, we're thinking of the year that's gone by and the images that seem like yesterday. The relief and satisfaction at the opening of Alumni Gym; president Morris' sw,in~ and. t~e infamous goggles; and some of our m1dmght v1s1ts before the opening ... our first swims a11d games of raquetball. .. Spectator sports: autumn on the turf: Rich Romer's crushing hits,. Cecil Bright and Matt Smith hauling in Tim Valachovic's tosses and Darrell Shepherd's running; in soccer, Tewks and LaDuke and Bryan Bakker, who some of us will never forget ... In arts: Suzanne Vega's elegance and Sam Kinison's crudity, Dennis. Miller and Blotto on the other extremes, and for a one day contrast, Saturday's Joan Jett and the Sm.ithereens ... on campus, we had \Waiting for Godot'' wandering insanely and hilariously around campus, jubilant \Godspell\ and \Seven Bright Walkers\ Jim Havard, Becky Thayer and the International Students at Cabaret. Greek social life: Octobermess, WWIII, Black and White, Taco and Tequila, Jungle Love, The Big Kahuna,Suitcase Party, Cocktail Club,Jate nights, Night Shift, and of course the formals ... and much more. Traditional Union: the Skellar, without hurdles but still without beer, and now without asbestos ... snow over our heads, especially when we dove in late at night, the library field wind tunnel, more all- nighters than ever with Jolt cola ... more sun here than we found in Florida on Spring Break. Wednesday's sunrise is close at hand, and .even Concordiensis editors have to sleep. We've m1ssed a lot here, but hit some· high notes. Maybe we stirred your memories; it was fun for us. Maybe, just maybe, we'll be back next week with even more fun ... ''Fahrenheit 451°'' We asked for extended library hours and got them, but good luck trying to study in there. ~f you stay in the library for more than a few mmutes your brain cells begin to melt in the tropical at- mosphere. Maybe they crossed the air conditioning in the library with the heat ducts in the pass~geways between the pool and the locker rooms. (This would explain the arctic conditions between the pool and the showers.) Or maybe the reconstruction p~ans for the Alumni Gym called for a sauna; and smce they couldn't extend the b~lili,ng any furth~r into Bailey Hall without demolishing the Alps 1t was decided that the library would be. an ideal sp~ce. Possibly, they've decided that smce there 1s a shortage of housing,people should be encouraged to sleep in the library. One question, where do they expect us to st~dy? If it is impossible to lower the temperature m the library, maybe classr?oms coul~ be left open ~s study areas. It is difficult to believe that ~he a1r conditioning is broken again. Every year 1t's the same story. When it warms up toward the ~nd of Spring Term, when we most need to use the library to study, the air conditioni?g breaks ~own co~,. pletely. Maybe it has allergtes. That still woul~n t explain why it so happens that every year followmg Commrnencement Exercises, the system ex- periences a miraculous recovery. This problem has been brought to t~e attention of the Administration, but as yet nothmg has been done to rectify the situation. Let's try to get something done about it. If by next Mof!day the library is still unbearably hot, ~tart by callmg Jack Hill the Director of the Physical Plant {x 6183), and,if that doesn't bring satisfa.c~ory r~sults, work your way on up the adrrnmstrattve ladder. CONCORDIENSIS, May z·s, 198'7 ~ LETTERS .. · ... : Coach ·at p·ault? To the Editor, I believe that Union College Athletics is really suffering when it allows coaches to discriminate against qualified players because of . their per· sonal differences. It is very disturbing for me, a member C»f two teams, to see varsity players and letter wirlners not asked back for the following season at the coach's discretion. What I am referring to is the selection process which the tennis coach, Anna Means, among others, bas instituted. Already, she has selected ten people who are to participate in the fall pre-season and ultimately will become the team. As related to me, only· freshmen will be able to challenge the ten and earn • · themselves a spot on the roster~ I realize that due to a team's budget there are limited .pre- season spaces avaUablet but shouldn't a coach invite all interested players or ·at lea$t hold some formal tryout thereby giving everyone a new and fair chance? It not only seems unfair to the individual but to the terun QIS a whole. Their season record ·will suffer because the coach has d·ecided that she has the authority to pick her team based on her conditions. In m~ opinion, the coach is not acting in the team's best interest. For example, how cart a team succeed with only ten team members? lf Coach Means has the same luck she did' with last yearts team, She will not even have enough to compete in a match. I am referring to the :monstrous loss in players due to the dissatisfaction with her coaching ability among other reasons. In short, I feel her decisitJn to select the team now is premature. She neglects to/take into consideration how mach one. :will improve over the summer. However, . in r.nost cases it is not the wea:kest pl~yer who was bwnped fl~om the squad. If .a coach has a problem dealing with a player's attitude she sho:uld try and vwork it out rather than avoid the situation by -cutting the gir'ls. Cuttirlg the qualified pla,ers creates more problems because· the team loses an experienced player and it hurts team Uillity which coaches should worlt to build; not destroy. I always hear coaches ~ay, · \Be on your best behavio~, you are a representative of U11ion College.\ SbQouldn't we, Ulllon, send our best representatives? I think so. Valei'ie Satwfu Another Parking Alternative To the Editor: After years of coping with the parking problem here on campus (no parking .for my-car, spending half of my working day dealing with requests from Security to find students or professors and ask them to move their cars, working on committees to solve parking, participating in surveys, etc., etc.) I am glad to see that the students are also trying to :find constructive solutions. I refer of course to \tent city\ next to Wells House and to signs suggesting that we build a parking lot on the President's lawn. However, I believe I have an even better suggestion. Why not ask the College to bur or build housing for Staff and Faculty within walking distance of the Collegei Those of us who are now taking up parking spaces could then walk to W-()rk each day which would leave plenty of space in the present parking lots fior students' Ntrs. . Sincel\ely Yvonne HUXIlold Schaffer Library- Extended Exam Hours Sunday, May 31 - Tuesday, June 9 The Library will be open from 11 P.M. to 1 A.M. For Studying Only No circulating ·or reserve materials will be char,ged out. No reference desk services. Please help us to keep food and drink restricted to the All Night Study area. Thank you. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board o.f . Concordiensis All Letters to the Editor must be typed double·scaced and sub- mitted J 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publi· cation. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normal- . ly will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect letters that do not con· form to stanclarcf cf good taste.

Page 10 Olnnrnrhirnsis F~J dl t:ra~Olll toll~t 187':' ·--- ---··-··-···· Images of '86-'87 This is our last issue of the year, and it's b·eten quite a year at that. As 'rllesday night fades iat(J Wednesday morning, we're thinking of the ye.ar that's gone by and the images that seem like yesterday. The relief and satisfaetion at the opening: @.f Alumni Gym; President Morris' sv:irD: and. t~e infamous goggles; and sorn~ of our m1dmght vt sits before the opening ... our flrst swims and game:s ()f raquetbalL. Spectator sports: autumn on the turf: Rid1 Romer's crushing hits, .Cecil Bright and Matt Smith hauling in Tim \l11lachovic's tosses .a11d Darrell Shepherd's runni11g; in soccer, Tewks and LaDuke and Bryan Bakk-er, who some of us will never forget. .. In arts: Suzanne Vega 's elegance and Sam Kinison's crudity, Dennis Miller and Blotto on tile other extremes~ and f ~:r a one day contratst, Saturday's Joan Jett and the Smithereens •.. ()n campus, we had \Waitin~ for Godot\ wandering insanely and hilariously C~round campus, jubilant \Godspell\ and \Seven 13right Walkers\ Jirn Havard, Becky Thayer .and the Internatiunal Students at Cabaret. Greek social life: Octob~rmess, WWIII, Bla<Cl\ and White, Taco and Tequila, Jungle Love, The Big Kahuna, Suitcase Party, C!loektail Club, late niglnts, Night Shift, ami of course the formals ... and mucl.1 more. Traditional Union: the Skellar, without hurdles but still without beer, and. now without asbestos ... snow over our heads, esp()cially when we dovte iii late at night, the library fielrl wind tunnel, more ali- nighters than ever with J-olt cola ... more sun here than we found in Florida on Spring Break. Wednesday's sunrise is close at hand, and eve11 Concordiensis editors havte to sleep. We've miss:e<l a lot here, but hit some lligh notes. Maybe we stirred your memories; it \Vas fun for us. Maybe, just maybe, we'll be ba~k next week with e-ve11 more fun ... ''Fahrenheit 451 o,, We asked f()r extended. library hours and g;ot them, but good lack trying: to study in there. ~f :V()U stay in the library f~r Ill()re th~n a few ~mutes your brain cells begm to nnelt m the tropical ata mosphere. Maybe they crossed the air conditioning in fh~ library with the heat dud;s in the pass~geways b€tween the pool and the }()c ker rooms. (This wol:llrl explain the arctic conditi()ns between the pool a11c:l the showers. ) Or maybe tile reconstruction p~an.s for the Alumni Gym calle<tl for a sauna, and s~ac~ they couldn't ~xtend the bll:ild~ng any furth~r 1nt{) Bailey Hall w1tllout demol1sh1ng the :t\.lps 1t was decided that the library v:vmtld be an Ideal space. Possibly, they've decided that since there is 2 shortage of housi.ng,people should be encouraged t() s1eep in the lihrary. One question,. where do they expect us to st~dy? If it is impossible to lower the temperature m tile library, maybe classrooms could be left open ~s study areas. It is difficult _to believe that ~~e air conditioning is broken agCI.m. Every year tt s the same story. When it warms up toward the end of Spring Term, when we mos:t need to use the 1i brary to study, the air conditioni!lg breaks ~own Cl)~­ pletely. Maybe it has allergies. That still wouli~n t explain why it so happens t~1at every year follo'A'Img Commmencem ent ExerceLses. the system .ex- periences a miraculous re cmvery. This problem has been brought to th_e attention of the Administration, but cas yet nothmg has been donl' to rectif:y the sitrna.tion. Let's try to ~et :-;{)rnt'lhmg dt)!ll? a bout i L If by next Mo~day ~he ~ 1bra ry is stlll un bearably h.ot, ~tart by callmg ~ack f!1!L the Din~etor of thf' JI'hys1eal Plant IX 6ll!t3 l, and 1f that do(·~n·t brin~ s;disfactory results, R'ot·k \ ilUr wa ,. , m up the .~administrative h·Hider. CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 LETTERS Coach at Fault? To the Editor, I believe th11t Union College Athletics is really suffering wnen it allows coaches to discrimmate against qualified players because of their per- sonal differences. It is very disturbing for- rne, a member of tw<l teams, to see varsity players and letter winners nat asked back f()r the following season at the C()ach's discretion. What I am r-ellerring to is the selectian process which the tennis coach. Anna Means, among others, has instituted. Already, she has selected ten pe(}ple who are to participate in the fall pre-season and ultimately will become the team. As related to me, only freshmen will be able to challenge the ten and earn themselves a spot on the roster. I realize that due to a team's budget there are limited pre- season spaces available, but shouldn't a coach iavite all interested players or at least hold some formal tryout thereby giving everyone a new and fair chance? It mt only seems unfair to the individual but to the team as a whole. Their season record will suffer because the coach has decided that she has the authority to pick her team based on her conditions. In my opini(m, the coach is not acting in the team's best interest. For example, how can a team succeed with only ten team members? If Coach Means has the same luck she did with last year's team, she will not even have ~nough to compete in a match. I am referring to the monstrous loss in players due to the dissatisfaction with her coaching ability among other reasons. ln short, I feel her decision to select the team now is pr,emature. She neglects to take int<J consideration how much one. Viill improve over the summer-. However, in most cases -it is not the weakest player- W~ho was bumped from the squ.oad. If a coach aas a p:ml>lem. dealing with a player• s attitude she should try and work it out ~rather thaR avoid the situati()D by cutting the girls. Cuttin!! the qualified players creates more problems because the te&ll loses an experie11ced player- and it hurts team unity which C'()aches should wor-k to build, not destroy. I al-ways hear coaches say, \:&e 011 your best behavior, you are a representative of Union CoUeg e . .,, Shouldn't we, Union, send o liL best representatives? I thillk so. Valerie Sarwin Another Parking Alternative To the Editar: After years of coping with the parking problem here on campus (no parking for my car, spEnding half of my working day dealing with requests from Security to find students or pr<Jfessors and ask them to move their cars, working on committees b solve parking, participating in surveys, etc., etc.) I am glad to see that the students are also trying to find constructive solutions. I refer of course to \tent city\ next to Wells House and to signs suggesting that we build a parking lot on the President's lawn. However, I believe I have an even better suggestion. Why not ask the College to buy or build h()using for Staff and Faculty within walking distance of the College? Those of us who are ao~ taking up parking spaces ~ould then walk to work each day which would leave plenty .of space in the present par'killg lots for students' cars. Sincerely, Yvonne Hux:hold Schaffer Library- Extended Exam HGurs Sunday, May 31- Tuesday, June~ The Library will be open from 11 P.M. to 1 A*M. For Studying Only No circulating or reserve materials will be charged out. No reference desk services. Please help us to keep food and drink restricted to the All Night Study area. Thank you. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis All Letters to the Editor m11st be typed double-sp11ced and sub· mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday llefore publi- cation. All letters must be signed by no more tllan four people and an writers sllould provide 1heir addresses and phone numbers for verificaiion of the letter. N~~Jmes normal- Ow will not be withheld. (@ncordif31l1sis resenres ~tea ri~ht to reiec'it 0@1tarl!; iltHE!~ do noi tO!i'i- J *orm ~e> $i«md~rd of good! t~ai·ta. L),~~'\\\\\\-·\\'\\\\'=ll

' CONCORDlENSIS, May. 28, 1987 . Page 11 Two Curricula Comp~ared To the Editor: 1. The· Message We Send Students The revised C.A~c. propo$w creates a signific~t number of General Education courses which ate clearly labeled: as being in a separate class from disCiplinary courses. This hasthe effect of identifying writing, critical thin~ing, historical perspective, etc. as being \what they make us do in Gen. Ed. courses.\ Fur- thernnore, these courses are di$proportionately. concentr- ated .in the freshJ;nan year, which means they will be viewed as a hurdle to be gotten past. The A.A;C. proposal is for a mix in which there are many more courses. which serve :simultaneously as disciplinary courses and in the Gen. Ed. program; this mix encourages the view that writing, critical thinking and nistorical ' per- spective are important in all courses. 2. Connections vr;. Content C.A.C. would attempt to tell students about connections between disciplines during their freshman year. Then the idea is dropped. It would be preferable to provide a solid base of con- tent in several disciplines, within a format t~at creates and sustains possibilities for cros~­ disciplinary perspectives. This is the intent of the History-Lit- Civ cluster in the A.A.C. proposal. . . \' .3. Beef One of the original goals .of Liberal Learning reform was increased exposure to the eontent of History, Literature, Art, Philos9phy, and the History of Ideas ·(Social Science, .Science, etc.). The A.A.C. prQP,sal has a five- intellectual base\ for all course .requirement in these ·students., while the A.A,C. areas, plus 'Preceptorial, plus a proposal has one. Neither requirement in the S()cial .system is a core. S · Th C A C r IWisal 6. Innova4-olon a·. nd lma.L.a.tion c1ences. . e · . . · . p o..,.v u gw has atwo-eourse requirememt in Well, I've never thought we History•Humanities content shottld choose a general (''E.M.W.''J. Neither the educationsystemonthebasis.o£- writing component nor the passion- tbose feelings of being Contemporary Issues colll'ses swept away are more aP\ appears to be content orieilted propriate for deciding on brief and there is no Social Scien«;e liaisons than they are for long requirement. term commitments. Still, we 4.F .P. vs. a Resuscitated Fr-esh~ were told that the alternative mtniEleeti'veSystem 'l'he C. .A. C.'s proposal would offer a grander, response to the criticism · more sweeping vision, yet the that th~re was an arUflcial result has been a curriculum $eparation between writing and based on required Freshman content in the original versiom of Comp and required Western Civ E.M.W.-Fresh:man Writing· has • hardly new. been to sever the connection entirely in their new version. It'shard to say exactly what the new C.T.W. is, but apparently· it would be a · different cotu:se depending on who teaches it. Splitting the content int() dif- ferent topics would lose the esprit de corps created. by weekly Preceptor's meetings and the many associated in- formal discussions about writing. In fact) F.P. was developed in part because .the system of Freshman Electlves which it replaced was dyin,g of \drift\ - a number of these Electives placed so little em- phasis on writing that they undermined the credibility of the requirement: The F.P. weekly meetings play a key :role in preventing a similar dxift; and many believe t!J.ese meetings would not be the same without the common content within which the discusdons take place. 5. Core vs. Distribution The C.A.C. proposal has two coUl'ses which· · .!!erve as a \con1mon Is there anything attractive in the G . .I\.C. proposal?. Per- sonally, I prefer the C.A.C. version of a science requirement (although it's misleading for them to use the word \Technology\ here), and I feel that a language requirement is worth looking tinto - I'd like to hear how schools similar to Union find a language requirement to work in practice. The rest of it suffers by comparison with our current liberal learning program, which recognizes that many students at Union change their major, and are often inspired by ex- posure to some disciplinary course originally taken to get some requirement \out of the way.\ The C.A.C. proposal does not require exposure to disciplinary courses in fields other than mathematics, science, and foreign language. Bill Zwicker Mathematics Department Reaffirm AAC Gen. Ed. To the Editor: Last week in a letter in these pages we offered a 'critici~ of the CAC proposals on wrttmg, argument; and the cirric~um. This week, in order to disann such criticisms, the CAC has issued new proposals, with the objective of preserving its Western Civ Great Books reading list. apparently at any cost. We would now like to assess those costs. The Composition course remains' a full-year course, meeting once a week, taught by faculty from any department each teacher still credited for one cow·se during the year. It has undergone a nominal ebange, by absorbing the title of the \Argument\ course (new title: \Critical Thinking and Writing\) but the ma~or change is that its conpect10n with the Western Civilization sequence has .become optional. This course may now turn out to be whatever the instructor wishes to make it, as long as it offers 2 ,papers and two con- ferences each tenn. ·The rationale for spreading one course over the entire year is that it makes writing gD on all the· time--an admirable ob- jective. ·But no move writing ~s done in this course than m Freshman Precept, and no writing is required in the rest of the Freshman Core. In the AAC proposal, the stud~nts will. ~ill have the intens1ve wr1tu~g experience currently offere~ m Freshman Precept--assign- mentsabout a core of readings, conferences, and reader· reports-but they will also write as part of the Literature and Civilization requirements of the General Education sequence. With 4 papers iri Freshman Precept, · and ordinarily 3 :papers in each of the 3 reqUil'ed Literature-Civilization cow.ses, students may write a .total <Jf 13 papers in the AAC Prowsal, as compared to tJ'le CAC total·.of ij papers. The CAC rationale for leaving the content of the Compa$Liion course to the teacher is that there is no consensus abOut llow to teach writing. A further rationale is doubtless that granting faculty control !Jver content will induce more faclll.ty to undertake a year-long C<llJl'Se for 1 teaching credit. Some sections will be allied to the Western Civ lectures and readings; others may o::ffer readings in the specialization of the instructor; others stlll may offer no readings at all. Such variation in the type and load of work in sections will lead to a perception by many students of unfairness, incoherence, and· .faculty uncertainty about how writing is to be taught. The variation in course .. content in the Freshman writing experience will have the additional consequence--a serious one-of breaking up the present community of teacbe~s of writing. Currently, faculty m FP meet once a week to discw;s how to make good assignmeJlts, how to design reader-rept)rts, how best to conduct con- ferences, etc. These discussions improve the teaching of writing both in Precept and in the r.est of the curriculmn. The CAC proposal would eliminate the only forum for faculty discussion of new methods of teaching writing. A set of common readings is the basis for the collaboration that produces the college's corp.s of experienced writing teachters. Whether the content belO>ngs to the Western Civilization syllabus or to a syllabus from the instmctor's specialization, there will not be enough tirnoe in a course that meets once a week both. to discuss the readings and to treat the problems of writing about them. The faculty member that chooses to teach the course responsibly-let us say, by attending the Western Civ lectures, doing the 4,000 pages of readings, meeting with the discussion leader of the Western Civ section, holding · classes on principles of com- position, and conducting con- ferences on individual papers- this teacher will be grossly undercredited. And those faculty members who do just that amotmt of work for which they are credited, will have chosen to teach the course irresponsibly. This places the instructor in an impossible position.. . Basically, the rev1sed CAC proposal is the . same as t_he unrevised, but w1th the proviso that faculty, if they will just agree to participate in it, may do anything they like with it. The CAC curriculum does not allow Freshmen time to ex- periment in diverse areas, and it does not guide upperclassmen to do so. No gUidance for the students; no guidance for the faculty. The AAC Gen Ed Proposal, however, not only insures large elements of coherence, it also provides breadth in the students' education. If the aim of curricular refonn is to strengthen general education, to moderate professional specialization, to attend to reading and writing skills, to provide a college education in history, then the faculty should reaffirm their support of the already approved AAC General Education Proposal. Sincerely, Felmon Davis Adrian. Frazier LETTERS Professors: Do Your Homework To the Editor: The letter by Messrs. Davis and Frazier consisted of in· correct, distorted, and spurious assertions that deserve stern rebuttal, but as I have little time available for that task this week, and as I'm certain that others wishing to exhibit their views on the curricular issue will be claiming their ration of space in your pages, I shall · limit myself to two general comments. 1. The notion that the judgment of writing depends wholly on relativistic criteria is dangerous nonsense. To be sure, every writer takes into consideration the interests and sophistication of the reade~ he imagines himself addressmg, but the rhetorical principles remain constant. The George Will who celebrates the splendla misery of being a Chicago Cubs fan and the George Will who writes about arms reduction use the same structures of language and argument. To depart from that recognition is to lead Wl· dergraduates into the marshes populated by Fachidioten wh_o breathe fog and pronounce 1t 'divine afflatus. Equally worrisome are the assumptions about knowledge and education that underlie the gospel conveyed by Davis and 'Frazier. In my view, the liberal arts college is meant to in!tiate students into the republic of intellect; in theirs, to have students pose as apprentices in contending guilds. Let us at least delay such .imposture until graduate school. 2. Da'\'is and Frazier state that the Western Civilization courses, among others in OW' proposals, reflect ua curricui:Ilm. tried twenty to thirty years ago, and dropped as educationally unsuccessful\; then, parenthetically, they add: \we do not extend the same criticisms to the CAC proposals on Science and Foreign Languages. \ In fact, the science ~nd foreign language requirements .of the kind our committee describes were part of that same curriculum washed ()Ut of too many colleges and univtersities in the late '60's and early '70's--a national debacle from which an ever growing portion of higher education is trying to recover. In partic:Jular respect to that terrible '\failure\ the Western Civ seq11ence: if Davis and Frazier had done their homework, · they might have discovered (a) that some of the great an<l abiding successes in the liber-d. arts business (such as Reed and Columbia) never abandonecl the concept; and, (b) that most institutional grants recently awarded by the NEB w~re to aid in the reestablishment .of such humaniti~s programs. Contral'yto what our returned voyagers to Chicago aver, the AAC General Education Proposal would once again (or still) plaee Union in the dernier- ' not ava.Jit·garde. FrankGado Get a Real Writing. Plan To the Editors: The comments of Professors Frazier and Davis last week, on the teaching of writing in both curriculum proposals, are an odd mix of only half-digested information and only half- sensible conclusions about the merits of the two plans for change in curriculum. At their conference in Chicago, Davis and Frazier became acquainted with \communities of discourse\ -a way of saying that historians, sociologists, and chemists write in different styles of thought and language. From this they conclude (or rather have ac- cepted the conclusions of others) that specialists have nothing important in conunon in their writing, and that a student must therefore be trained to write like a historian, or a sociologist, or a chemist. A course in just generic \good writing\ seemsto them a waste oftime. · But that's the half-digestion I mean. It is true enough that a~as of specialty develop their own jargon and rhetoric, and that the successful student learns to impress his mentors by \talking the lingo.''. But to conclUde from that that all \generic\ composition courses are therefore useless is to jump the logic right off the track. Yes, perceptive students do learn to \do\ the political science paper in a manner different · f1·om the way they \do'' the literature· paper. That is, when they move into another sub-community of academe, they learn from the writing they see there how the pros handle their prose. Less perceptive students don't catch on so quickly, and so the English major sometimes seems \unprofessional\ to the sociologist, and the sociology major seems \pretentious\ and \jargon r-Idden\ in the English class. Where Davis & Frazier jump the track, however, is in con- cluding that because there are some quite subtle differences in the cbmrnunities of discourse (and ther-e are), therefore the academic areas are SD isolated that a \gelleric writing\ course would be trivial. They were invited to present the lore from Chicago at a Friday meeting of interested faculty a oouple of weeks ago. Thev ·did an excellent job, I tho~ght. They · seemed energize~ l>y the new ideas they had hearcl, thougb they seemed unsure tlut they agreed with everything at Chicago. But now, in their letter last week, they draw some conclusions about the proposed curriculums that are only half•informed. And their half-information is mischievollS. Now they argue that the writing-component of the · \Gado\ proposal is apparently a good reaS()n for voting against it and for the \Zwicker\ plan. I tdo am not bappy with what the \Gado\ committee proposes (so far) for writing, but I want to point out that neither curricular plan bandies the writing well, and tbe reasons for votmg against \Gado'' ?old equally .for voting aganlst \Zwicker.\ Surely, for example, the Preceptorial (tau~ht by both Frazier and Dav1s, and con- tinued in the \Zwicker:· ~Ian) could not satisfy the prmctples they br()ught back from Chicago. The Precept has n1 \knowledg~ base\ of its own, and it certainly creates no \community of discourse\ at all - indeed, the student in FP- 10 is at th~ mercy of the naive and unc().nscious stylistic Continued on page 12 . '

CONCOllDIENSl.S, May 28, 1987 Page 11 Two Curricula Compared To the Editor: 1. The Message We Sen41 Students The revised C .A..;C, proposal creates a signific~nt number of General Educ~ti()ll courses which are clearly labeled as being in a separ:1te class from disciplinary collr>es. This has the effect of identifying writiHg, critical thiJJking, historical perspective, etc. .as being \what they make u.s ~() .i.iJ Gen. Ed. courses.\ F11r· thermote, these courses are disproportienately conC'er:~tr· ated in the freshman ye<~r-, which means they will .IMJ viewed as a hurdle to be gotte11 past. The A.A.C. proposal is for a mix rn which there are m~ny more courses. which sEr-ve simultaneously as disciplinary courses and in the Gen. Ed. program; this mix encolll'\ages the view that writing, crUi<!al thinking and historical per· spective are important ln all courses. 2. Connections vs. Cont«lmt C.A.C. would attempt to tell students about connecti()nS between disciplines duringth~ir freshman year. Then the idea is dropped. It would be preferallle to provide a solid base of con· tent in several disciplinEs, within a format that creates and sustains possibilities f<>r cr() ss- disciplinary perspectives. Tl!i~ is the intent of the History-Lit· Civ cluster in the A.A.C. proposal. \' .3. Beef One of the original goals of Liberal Learning reform was increased exposure t() thE content of History, LiteratUJ1e, Art, Philosophy, and thE History of Ideas (Social Science, Science, etc.). ThE A.A. C. pro!KJSal has a five· colU\'se requirement ill these areas, plus ·Preceptorial, plus a ;equiremen.t i:n the Social Scie11ces. The C.A.C. proposal lla:s atwo--course requirement in Bistory·Humanities c<Jntent { \E .M. W.''). NeiUer the writing component nor the Co11temporary Issues courses !lpJlears to he content <Jriented and there is no Social Science r eqllirernent. 4:.F.P.vs. a Resuscitated Fresh· man Elective System The C.A.C.'s rEsponse to the criticism tl1at there was an arUficial separation between wTiting and c:ontent in the original version of E.M .W.-FresJ:unan Writing has bee11 to sever the connection entirely i:n their new ver3ion. It's hard to say exactly what the n.e~ C.T.W. is, but apparently it would be a different course d.epending on who tea<:hes it. Splitting the content into dif- fErent topics would lose the esprit de c<>rps created by weekly Preceptor's meetings and the many associated in· f()rmal discussions a bout writing. In fact, F.P. was cleveloped in part because the system of Freshman Electives whJc:h it replaced was dying of \drift\ - a number ()f these Electives placed so little em- !)hasis on writing that they llnderrnined tile credibility of t.be requirement. The F.P. we-ekly meetirlgs play a key role in preventing a similar drift, a.nd many believe these meetings wclll.d not be the same with()ut the common content within which the discu.ssions t~ke place. 5. Core vs. Distributi~n The C.A.C. proposal has two courses wh.ic:h ~erve as a «common i11tellectua:l base\ for all students, whl<le the A.A.C. proposal has one. Neither system is a core. ; 6. lllJlovation md Imagination Well, I've 11evEr thought we should cho()se a general education systEm <Jn the basis of passion -those feelings Gf being swept away are more ap- propriate for deciding on brief liaisons than they are for long term commitn ents. Still, we were told that the alternative proposal would offer a grander, more sweepin~ vision, yet the result has been a curriculum based on required Freshm·an Ca:mpand reqllired Western Civ - hardly new. Is there an~l!ing attractive in the C.A.C. J)roposal? Per- sonally, I prEfer the C.A.C. version of a science requi·rernent (although it's misleading f()i t:hem to use the word \Technology\ here), and I feel that a language requirement i~ worth looking tinto - I'd like to hear how schools similar to Union find a language reqllirernent to work in practice. The r-est of it suffers by comparison with our current liberallearnmg pmgram, which recognizes that many students at Union cha11ge their major, and are often inspired by ex- posure ta sorn e disciplinary cou.rse originally taken to get some requirement \out of the way.\ The C.A.C. proposal does not require e:xposure to disciplinary coll!ses in fields other than mathematics, science, and foreign language. Bill Zwicker Mathematics Department Reaffirm AAC Gen. Ed. To the Editor: Last week in a letter in these pages we offered a criticism ()£ the CAC proposals on Wiitlng, argument, and the eirricuJ.IlJil. This week, in order to disarm such criticisms, the CAC ba~ issued new proposals, witb the objective of preserving it~ Western Civ Great ]()()k:; reading list, apparently at any cost. We would now like to assess those costs. The Composition cot~r-se remains a full-year course, meeting once a week, tau.ght by faculty from any department each teacher still credited fo1· one course during the year. It has undergone a nominal change, by absorbing the title of the \Argument\ course (nevv title: \Critical Thinking and Writing\) but the major change is that its connection with the Western Civilization sequence has become optionaL Thiscoursemaynowturn()ut to be whatever the instnctoi' wishes to make it, as long as it offers 2 papers and two con· ferences each term. The rationale for spreading one course over the entire year is that it makes writing go ()n aU the time--an admirable ol>- jective. But. no more writing ~s done in this course than 1r1 Freshman Precept, ami no writing is required in the rest ()f the Freshman Core. In the AAC proposal, the students will_ ~ill have the intensive wnt1ng experience currently offere~l in Freshman Precept--assign· rnents about a core of readings, conferences, and reader· reports-but they will also write as part of the Literature and Civilization requirements of the General Education sequen~ee. With 4 papers in Freslu!tall Precept, and ordinarily :l papers in each of the 3 required L.iterature-Civilization courses, stu-dents may write a total of 13 papers in the AAC Pmpc>sal, as C()rnpared to the CAC total of 6 papers. The CAC rationale for leaving the content o:f the ComJ>Osition C()llrse to the teacher is that there is no consensus aoout how to t~ach writing. A further r~tionale is doubtless that granting fac:ulty control over c(lntent will induce more faculty to undertake a year·long course for 1 teachmg credit. Some secti()ns will be allied to the Western Civ lectures and readings; others may offer readings in the specialization of the instructor; others still may offer no readings at all. Such variation in the type ami load of work: in sections will lead to a perception by many students of trnfaimess, incoherence, and faculty uncertainty aoout how writing is to be taught. The variation in course- C()DtEnt in the Freshman wrf.ting experience will have the a<ldiii<Jnal consequence--a serious one-of breaking up the present commllnity ·of teache~s of writing. Carrently, faculty m F'P meet once a week to discuss h()VV t() make good assignments, hm\' to design reader-reports, h-o\.-V best t<> conduct con- ferences, etc. These discussions improve the teaching of writing oot]l in Precept and in the rest of the curriculum. The CAC proposal would eliminate the o11l y forum far faculty cliscllssion of new methods of tea<ehing writing. A set of common readings is the basis for the collaboration that prO'duces the college's corps of experienced writing teachers. Whether the content belongs to tile Western Civilization S'~<lla bus Cll' to a syllabus from the anstruct.Jr's spec1aUzation, there will not be enough time in a cmuse that meets once a week both to discuss tile readings and to treat the problems of writing about them. T'he faculty member that chooses to teach the course resp<)nsibly-let us say, by attending the Western Civ lectures,. doing the 4,000 pages of readirlgs, meeting with the discussion leader of the Western Civ section, holding classes on priJJciples of com- position, and mnducting con· ferences on i11di:vidual papers- this teacher \IVill be grossly undercrediterl. And those faculty members who do just that amount d work for which they are credited, will have chosen to teach the course irresponsibly. This places the instructor in a.n impossible position. Basically, th.e revised CAC proposal is the . same as ~he unrevised, bat w1th the proviso that faculty, if tb.ey will just agree to participat~ in it~ m~y do anything tluy hke with 1t. The CAC cuiTiculurn does not allow Freshr:nen time to ex- periment in cliverse areas, and it does not guide upperclassmen to do so. No guidance for the students; no g11idance for the faculty. The AAC Gen Ed Proposal, however, not only insures large elements of C()herence, it also provides breadth in the students' educatlon. If the aim of curricular reform is to strengthen general education, to moderate professional specialization, to attend to read:ing and writing skills, to pro\Vi<le a college education in history, then the faculty should reaffirm their support of the already approved AAC General Education Proposal. Sincerely, Felmon Davis Adrian Frazier LETTERS Professors: Do Your Homework To the Editor: The letter by Messrs. Davis and Frazier consisted of in· correct, distorted, and spuri()US assertions that deserve stern rebuttal, but as r have little time available for that task this week, and as I'm certain that others wishing t() exhibit their views on the curricular issue will be claiming their ration of space in your pages, I shaU limit myself to two general comments. 1. The notiOon that the judgment of writing depends wholly on relativistic criteria is dangerous nonsense. To be sure, every writEr takes into consideration the interests and sophistication of the reader he imagines himself addressing, but the rhetoric:al princtples remain constant. The George Will who celebrates the splendlo misery of being a Chicago Cubs fan and the George Will who writes about arms reduction u.se the same structW'ES of language and argwnent. To depart from that recognition :is to lead un· dergraduates int() the marshes populated by Fachidioten who breathe fog and ()ronounce it divine afflatus. Equally worri&<>me are the assumptions abottt knowledge and education that underlie the gospel conveyed by Davis and 'Frazier. In my view, the liberal arts college is meant to initiate students into the republic of intellect; in theirs, to have students pose as apprentices in contending guilds. Let us at least delay such imposture until graduate scbool. 2. Davis and Frazier state that the Western Civilization courses, among others in our proposals, reflect \a curriculum tried twenty to thirty years ago, and dropped as educationally unsuccessful''; then, parenthetically, tl!ey add: \we do not extend the same criticisms to the CAC proposals on Science and Foreign Languages.\ In faoCt, the science and foreign l~nguage requirements of the kind our committee describes w-ere part of that same cu.rriculum washed out of too many colleges and universities in the late '60's and early '70's··a national debacle from which an ever growing portion of higher education is trying to recover. In particular respect to that terrible \failure\ the Western Civ sequence: if Davis and Frazier had done their homework, they rnigbt have discovered (a) that some of the great and abiding successes in the liberal arts business (such as Reed and Coltunbia) never abandoned the concept; and, (b) that most institutional grants recently awarde~ by the NEH were to aid in the reestablishment of such hwnanities programs. Contrary to what our returned voyagers to Chicago aver, the AAC General Education Proposal would once again (or still) place Union in the <lernier- ' not avant-garde. FrailkGado Get a Real Writing Plan To the Editors: The comments of Professors Frazier and Davis last week, on the teaching of writing in both curriculum proposals, are an odd mix of only half-digested information and only half- sensible conclusions about the merits of the t..vo plans for change in curric111um. At their conference in Chicago, Davis and Frazier became acquainted with \communities of discourse\ - a way of saying that historians, sociologists, and c:hemists write in different styles of thought and language. From this they conclude (or ratller have ac- cepted the conc:lusions of others) that specialists have nothing important in common in their writing, and that a student must therefore be trained to write like a historian, or a sociologist, or a chemist. A course in just generic \good wr.iting\ seems to them a waste of time. But that's the half-digestion I mean. It is true enough that areas of specialty develop their own jargon and rhetoric, and that the successful student learns to impress. his mentors by \talking the lillgo.\. But to conclude from tllat that all \generic\ composition courses are therefore useless is to jump the logic right off the track. Yes, perceptive students do learn to \do\ the political science paper in a manner different from the way they ''do\ the literature paper. That is, when they move into another sub·communit\· ()f academe, they learn frnm \the writing they see there how the pros handh' their prose. Less perceptiv .. !>i.udents don't catch on so quickly. and so the Engilsh maj0r :somet in1es ;,et·rn~ ··unprPfe;;sional' · to lht• soctologist. ~md t ht' '{l( ·toJogy major seems \pretentiollls\ and \jargon ridden\ in the English class. Where Davis & Frazier jwnp the track, however, is in con- cluding that because thEre are some quite subtle differences in the cbrnmunities of discourse (and there are), therefore the academic areas are so isolated that a \generic writing\ course would be trivial. They were invited to :present the lore from Chicago at a Friday meeting of h1t-er-ested faculty a couple of weelts ago. Thev did an excellent j<>b, I thoi.ght. They seemecl energizer by the new ideas the) had heard, though they seemed \lnsure that they agreed with everything at Chicago. But now, in their letter last week, they draw some conclusions abot:t the proposed curriculU!IIs that are only half-informed. And their half-information is mischievous. Now they argu.e that the writing-component of the \Gado\ proposal is apparently a good reason for voting against it and for the \Zwicker\ plan. I tdo am not happy with wllat the \Gado\ committee prGposcs (so far) for writing, but I want to point out that meither curricular plan handles the writing well, and the reasom for voting against \.Gado' · ~old equally for votmg a g:awst \Zwicker.\ Surely, for exampk. the Preceptorial rtaught by i>oth Frazier and Davis. an·d c·on· tinued in the \Zwtckt>r .. plan l could not satisfy tht> pn.-wlrlt~s thev hrought back frorn tnli'agn Tht' PreC'Ppt ha' 11 l \lmPwlrdg ,. ba SP\ n f it~ •>vm, and it cr>Ii<unly cre<ttl':-- no ··c.-mmumtv nf d!St't;Urse'' at all- i11deeti. the ~1udent 1n FP 1n 1~ :Jt tht• Tlll'fl'\' of t.h;:• r:;m·e ;mti Ll:ln·nsdo.us st .d ,,:tlL' Continul'd or, p.:::;<· I~

I Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 COMMENTARIES Vandalism at Union Johannesburg or Schenectady? Ry S'TUDENT GR:OUNDSCOMMITTEE Vandalism has been a recurring pro!Jlem at Union College wllich has been in~ creasing in frequency and severity. Almost all of the vandalism ()fl campus is done by Union students. This problem is important and needs to he addressed beca\;lSe OUR campus ·is ()ur home for the time that we are here. The beauty of the college grounds is something which every .student should appreciate and enjoy. However, OUR friends are trashing OUR campus. Vandalism comes in many forms and happens both on the inside and on the outside of buildings. Outside: Tho usamis of dollars have been spent this term to fix broken wiudows, screens and doors. The glass in and around doors to residen()e halls is perpetually broken. Jimmied and jammed locks are a nuisance. The en1ergency phones located aroWld campus have been vandalised or left off the hook since they were put up. Dozens CJf light poles and light fixtures are broken or damaged each term. 111 addition, the light fixtures are often broken or stolen. Many ears on campus have been sera tched or dented, antennae and windshield wipers have been bent or broken off. Students who paint the Idol use excess paint to decorate light poles, grass, sidewalks and assorted trees. Trash and newspapers strewn By CRAIG RIDEOUT_ over lawns is unsightly. Inside: Thousands of dollars were spent for the painting done in the dorms over the summer. Scratched walls, broken hall mirrors, broken ceiling tiles, and food, garbage and cigarette butts in halls make the residence halls look old and dilapidated. You are strolling along the road with some friends after nightfall, just talking and generally enjoying yc.urselves, when suddenly you see th,e spotlight glaring in rour eyes · -and the voice of thE officer saying, \May I see YOIU' identity Stopped-up toilets and · disgorge in )lalls and bathrooms are unhealthy for everyone concerned. ' Graffiti in the library, academic buildings, and dorm · room is distracting and ex- pensive to remove. And finally, st()Jen board pens are a trivial problem but very . annoying to students who are often out of their rooms and are · denied a line of communication. Many visitors remark on the · beauty and extensive green on our campus. Cooperation, consideration and good old peer • pressure on our friends can ga a· · long way to keeping it looking nice. '\Count to ten now or it will cost you $100 later.\ Before you break down that door or window 1 or trash that lounge, count to ten and consider your action; or it will cost you $100 in fines when you're caught later. ., ,. papers .... We sit here safe in our dorm or fraternity r:-ooms and ner- vously chuckle at this. scenario, smugly confident thaUilis can't happen here ... this is America, land of the free, etc ... However, it's alrEady hap- pened here, right on campus. Little did we know that by putting down ()Ur deposit and registering for courses at Union we were forfeiting our natural rights as American citizens. For 'bY doing so, we agreed to abide by the regulatio11s -of both the college commllnity and the residence halls (if you happen to be living there, of course). Little did we know t:hat within the Student Handboo~, in the section pertaining to Security and Safety Reglllatio:ns, can be found the following little gem: Failure or refusal t() present an ID card identifying you as a member of the Union com- munity will result in my or aU of the following: 1. Charges being filed before the conduct committee for failure or refusal to produce an ID card. 2. Criminal chargesfiled with the Schenectady :Police 0 0 • A Real Writing Plan Conti nu ec:l from page 11 preferences of whatever Preceptor he happens to have. (For ·confinnation of this, ask any Writillg Tutor.) But wnat Davis & Frazier count on is the development of a ''Writing-AcrossDthe-Gurric- ulurn\ (W.A..C.) program at Union- an arrangement not yet even proposed or debated, or, I think, s11ffieiently understood by the factilty, including Davis & Frazier. Now; W.A.C. is a powerful element in the teaching methods of many colleges, b11t it is an idea that Union has yet to discover. I too yearn for this development - but W.A.C. is fully as consistent with \G.ad~'' as it is -with \Zwicker. n Why Davis & · Frazier think W .A.C. is more compatible . . with . a \distribution'' plan than w1th a \core\ plm, I fail to see. Perhaps th.ey think that W.A.C. is suitable only for GenEd \distribution\ courses,- but not for others.· If that's what they think, they do have a lot to lEarn about W.JLC.! In fact, the importance of Writing-Aeross-the-Curricu.lum is less a :f()rrnal requirement of students tllan as a revolUtion in the way teachers conduct their classes. I;m not sure Frazier and Davis have quite un- derstood that yet, but they will if they kEep doing their homework. They will also discover tYYo basic truths about W.A.C.: (1) ThE purpose of Writing- Acr()ss-the-Curriculwn is no1 just the improvement of writing, as a merE ••skill.\ Its far richer possibility lies in the use of writing to learn in any subject area (inclu(iing sciences, math, etc.). Any discussion of W.A.C. as first of ell pr.omoting con·ect writing, ()r even mastering the conventions of specialized discourse that Davis and Frazier desire, just doesn't yet understand what these other colleges have been learning. (2) Therefore W.A.C. involves not just a change in requirements for students. (Changing requirements for students is something the faculty mandates most easily if it does not cbange faculty habits: note Liberal Learning or other ''distribution requirements'' proposed recently.) It involves much more: a re-education in faculty attitudes and teaching strategies that will require much more energy than a casual look will reveal. This kind of teaching, in- cidentally, can be done by any teacher in any class - there need not be a college-wide program. If Davis and Frazier want to, they can begin now, in their own classes. If they have, Iu haven't heard about it. To be successful as a college- wide program, ·however, Writing-Across-the-Curriculum requires the active par• ticipation (not just passive approval) of a very large portion of the faculty. At other colleges, that has meant a series of summers in which willing faculty engage in ad- ministration-supported wor- kshops to learn some important new ways o£ teaching their classes. As a program, it would mean some strenuous changes for all of us. It is certainly not something that can be \added on'' to make the Zwicker proposal (or any other) work a little better. If Frazier and Davis also favor this kind. of revolution, I for one welcome their energy and dedicati(m to the im- provement of teaching - of an subjects, not just writing. But I think it's naive of them to assume that these things will come more easily with the \Zwicker\ plan than with the \Gado\ plan. And when they reject the \Gado\ pr()posal for writing as \tried 20 t() 30 y.ears ago and dropped as educationally tU1SUC()essflll,\ I do not know what they mean - and I'm quite sure that they don't either. If we go back \20 to :10 years\ at this college, we fmd the old Freshman Electives - writing courses with a modest degree of \knowledge base,\ t.aught by various faculty who no doubt assumed the canons of good writing in their own \com· munities of discourse.\ {This plan, incidentally, is ·exactly What is presently used at Cvrnell.) The amusmg imny is that the Freshinan Electives, which Frazier &.Davis seem to know nothing aboat, came closest to what they say they learned at their Chicago meetings! It seems to me that before they make such confident claims about \the clll'l'ent state of thinking aoout education in writing and reading\'• Davis & Frazier need to do more homework, learn more about what has been tried (here and ·elsewhere), and have more facts about what has been \educationally \Ulstlccessful\: the demise of the Freslunan Electives, they would learn among other things~ had en- tirely other causes. Let me repeat: I to() am not much enamored by the things the \Gado\ plan pmposes for writing. But one thing the \Gado\ committee did: it at least faced a problem in the way writing has been handled (or non-handled) at Union. I happen Tllere are still Fitzhugh T .;Shirts left. If interested, see Mrs. Marra, 3rd Floor, Old Chapel. Oepartme11t under the ap- propriate section of the New York State penal law. 3. A $25 fine: What this means isthat we, as paying students of this college comnnmity, must carry around our ID cards as if we were in some sort of paramilitary authoritarian state while we are on campus .. Some defenders of this regulation will say, ''Don't be silly, as long as you can prove that y<Ju're a student they won't do anything ... \ WeU, the facts don't support this vieW! My roonu:nate was accosted by those men in the shiny blue Wliforms one night, and he didn't ·have his ID card; although, when asked for it by Security, he told them his nwnber ( which ahnost every upperclassrnan has comrnitted to memory merely through repetition) and they called it into the dispatcher and im- mediately began grilling him with sUch cl:assics as: ''What is your name'? .... Your Social Security number?... Your mother's maiden na:tne? ... etc ... \ All Otf Which he was, of course, able to answer correctly being that he :really was who he said he was. It was all to no avail... Dean Mamrnola fined him the $2;5· anyway, though even the good Dean called my roommate by his name (which, coincidently, was the same name that was on the incident report filed by Security at the time of the affair!). All of this brings me to the question, \Are we in Schenectady or Johan- not to agree with their solution . But the \Zwicker\ proposal just ignored the problem and simply continued tile Preceptorials as gQod-enougll writing courses, without more conisderation or study. We are left, I thbtk, with one plan which confronts the problem of writing but offers a wrong solution, and another plan whieh :neglects to see the problem at all. I therefor-e hate to see the interesting things Frazier & nesb~g? ... \ Over the last few years wheA the white mrnority · goveri'ln1ertt in Pretoria was cracking down ()n \coloretls\ who rfailed to carry their identity papers with them at all times, thete was an uproar of public sentiment against the government in Pretoria. Apparently the Security department feels it would he in our best interests fur us to have to ,carry our ''identity papers'' With us at aU times, too ... hrnmmmm.... not very democratic thoughts to have in a repre~entative · democracy .... Wny doesn't the Administration repllrase their by-laws (or whatever equivalent operating procedures they function un- der) so as to removt)this blatant paramilitary section and replace it with one allowing for a ··verbal ID upon request? (which, incidently, is inferred in Section IX of the Student Conduct Code~ but apparently is not the standard operating procedure) At least this way the Administration will be able to maintain their control over the security of the campus (which, in Schenectady, is definitely advisable, and something which I personally am not opposed to) and they'll also placate us by giving us a false sense of democracy which we can .smugly crawl under and hide within for the <luraion of our stay in Union .(not that I would ever accuse any segment, minori~y. ormajority, of the campus of APATHY ..... naw!) Davis brought back from Chicago used to argue a spurious superiority of one curricUlum over an~ther. With the energy of the new convert, they have misapplied the doctrines they weretaught. And they have cited \Writing Across the Curriculum\ as a future cure-all without understanding either its real power or its real difficulties of adoption by the faculty. -Alan Nelson Camp Union - May 30 Have .fun but please note: The College policy -prohibits the .. presence and use of alcohol at publtc outdoor events. In honor of Camp . Union, no open containers or kegs w1ll be allowed. ' Thank You Three Students Win in German E~say Contest wendy Baer, Cynthia L. Curtis, and Ellen Rut- • fing won recognition for their essays which Professor Kellenter submitted to this year's \Co.llege Term- Paper Contest\ sponsored by the ·Hudson Valley Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of German.Cynthia Curtis received a prize for her essay on the role ofco~flict in the writings of the German poet Oeert1e P · Potash-suhr; Ellen Ruffing for a comparison of three works by lngeborg Drewitz, lngeborg Bachmann, and Christa Wolf; and Wendy Baer for the interpretation of a Heinrich ·Boll noveL Many colleges in New York State participated In this · contest and the Modern Language Department is very proud that three of their students were so successfuL Congratulations on their tine work!

f r I j ! [' r I r I ~I ' 0 +- 0 .c Q. >, +- v :0 :> 0:. 0 0 .!:. Q. >- +- '[i .0 :::l fl. .. '',.. .. ,.l' ' ' CONCORDIENSIS, Ma, 2~, 1987 Page 13 THE ARTS Abel a~nd ggae The seven~person band is led by Jah Anthony Allen (Jah Tee), who was the bass player on a .#1 hit songin Jamaica !in 1980 and was also the harmony singer .for #1 Jamaican singer and artiste Beres Hammond. Abel and Allen met while playing in clubs in New York. Sonia Abel and Allen ar.e the lead singers, Hick Tarantella is the drummer, Wilham Victoria and Ralph Frazear on guitar. Together the Woodstock based group chants \a message of Love, Peave and Harmony among aU the People of the world.\ They have a 4S that has been released and are .currently working on a new LP~ Carol Haas Joan Jett and the Black. hearts Joan Jett began playing guitar at the age of 13. In 1975, she formed the Runaways, the .first all-female hard rack band. They released ~ix LP's and had five world tours before Joan Jett was even 21. Later she formed the Blackhearts with Gary Ryan on bass, Ricky Byrd on guitar and Lee Crystal playing the drums. In 1981, they released the Album \I Love Rock and Roll\ which was the #1 album for eight straight weeks. The album features the hit \Crimson and Clover.\ Her 1983 release altlum has two hit singles, \Fake Friends,\ and \Everyday Pe<:Jple.\ In addition to· music she co-starred with Michael J. Fo-'< i 11 the 1 98 7 movie ;'Light of Day\ where she sings --the title theme.song \Just Around the Corner to tile Light of Day,\ (written by Bru\e Springsteen). Her most .recer1t album \Gooa Music,\ features other songs from this movie and remakes of the Beach Boys. \Fun Fun, Fun\ Jonathan Richman's \Roadrunner\, arad \You Got Me Floatin'\ by Jim! Hendrix. A New Jersey based quartet, The Smithereens just entered into the music scene last year with one of the best debut albums ever; \Especially For You.\ The group began playing in small clubs along the East coast and includes the lead singer/guitarist Pat Dinizio, drummer Dennis Diken, bassist Mike Mesaros and guita~ist Jim Babjak.Quickly building a following, the band released an EP in 1983, \Beauty and Sadness,\ that was a #1 selling import in parts of Europe. Blending intelligent lyrics with an acoustic pop sound that smacks of the 60's, the Smithereens scored big with songs such as \Blood and Roses\ \Strangers\, \Wall o.f Sleep\ and \In a Private Place\ (a duet with Suzanne Vega). Recent VV<>rks on Paper and Canvas 31 May-· B June 1987 First Floor .. Arts Building Union College, Sc.henectady, New York Opening ReC:eption Sunday, 31 May 2:30-4:30 P.M. CROSSG·ATES MALL THEATER SCHEDULE No. Exit By Jean-Paul Sartre 8:00P.M. No1t Memorial. Theatre Tues. May 26th .. Fri. May 29th Free .Secret of My Success ~lind Date Project X Gardens of Stone · The Gate · Hot Pursuit . Creepshow 2 'lshtar Lethal Wea!)on Earnest Go~s to Camp Chipmunk Adventure Beverly HJIIs Cop 2 American tJinja II \ RATING PG13 PG13 PG R PG13 PG13 R PG13 R PG G R R 456-5677 S Ut-1.- THURS. TIMES 1:00 4:15 7:05 1:55 4:45 7:10 1:40 4:20 7:25 7:00 1:25 4:25 7:40 12:40 3:20 6:40 1:35 4:00 6:20 12:50 3:40 6:55 12:20 3:15 6:15 1 :1 0 4:05 7:45 12:~5 2:30 4:35 12:40 3:30 6:45 1 :30 4:20 7:.20 -·-- -· ·- 11:45 9:30 10:15 9:55 10:20 9:15 9:00 9:45 8:50 10:25 9:35 10:00 FRI. SAT. 9:55 11:55 12:20 12:10 12:20 11 :20 11:05 12:15 11:1 0 1 2:25 12 :i 0 1 i :55 0 .... 0 J: 0. >- +- .~ .D ::> 0:. ~.

·Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 \'THE ARTS Jim and Buddy at the Movi.es By UNDERDOG Rand: The Replacements Album: Pleased To Meet Me 'If he was frDm Venus would b.e meet us OH the moon? If he !lied in Memphis that'd be cool' ... whines Paul Westerberg, the firecracker of this Min- neapolis trio, in a joyful tribute to the band's adopted mentor, Alex Chilton. Originally a raw hardcote qumtet from Min- By JIM MacLAUGHLIN ISHTAR Starring Dustin Hoffman, Warren Beatty and Isabelle Adjani. Directed by Elaine May. At Mohawk Mall, Northway Mall, and Grossgates Mall cinemas. Rated PG-13 I . (h f H k D as · create a new sound by neapo IS, . orne o ·us er · u) k · · Forty mil-l1'on dollars. ·P1'cture W t b h . eepmg up w1th .a cutting guitar · ·. es er ·erg taug t himself sound. it and imagine all the worth- guitar by mimicking old Alhnan while things that one could Bms. records. Lately, this band Alth h h b accomplish with 40 m'llion, 1 and· ll t d · k · · o ug t e . ;:md is great, : as ·rna ure ·. mto rna mg ur t b probably· .still have m· oney l-eft t . 11 1... 'll' d b n es er · erg is truly the hero . erno 10na Y ~:.~rl · 1ant soun · s Y h A f over. 40 million dollars·. It was ·a f • • h' t d. ere. s a ollow-up to last . -. . nus mg sen ences an punc- , 11 figur.e that kept ha· .untm· g· Buddy t t . 1 · D , · · years co ·. ege•radio ''Tim\ this ua mg yr1cs. on t mterpret d · · and I as we sq.m·r· med m· our th t t P ul h ld recor IS surprisingly con- - · · a o mean· a as so out · seats, try·m· · g ·to endure· th· e b ~ · s1sten.t. Even the loss of · to e an U:nitator but rather that i . · mov1'·e, \lsht·ar\. Starr 1 ·.n·g W gu tar1st Bob Stinson hasn't set · esterberg is finally com- th · b Dustin Hoffman and w-arren· 1 t' h' h h e1r and back, a Sign that this P e mg lS t ollg ts. is a one-man show. Paul con- Beatty, the movie is the biggest Most appealing . about the tinues to display the uncanny waste of talent and money since ReplacemEmtsandthis record is knack for articulating the the '7,8 Boston Red Sox. its diversity. Wester berg plays confusion most of us feel bet- Hoffman and Beatty portray most of the guitars, some piano ween open acceptance ()[ the two incompentent singer- and a touch of llannonica. The world and frustrated, angry songwriters who accept a gig to record can be shockingly honest cynicism. Now, let's see if they play in Morocco. In Morocco, ('The Ledge') and raunchy can equal the sarcasm of their they :become entangled in, ( 'Silootjng Dirty Pool') and still last video which featured three (yawn) a rather predictable tl,ll'il around and play a tear- minutes of a stereo speaker plot of foreign intrigue and jerker (listen to the acoustic playing, 'Kiss Me On The Bus\. mystery that involves a make• to free the poverty stricken people of Ish tar. The movie is bare~y watch- able, looking as if it can't decide whetbet to be a poUtical- comedy or a Hope and Crosby type \road\ movie. What all the Qig stars and directors forgot to do wasmakethemovie funny. A few gags are attempted, but are so lame they insult the in- telligence. Hoffman and Beatty's characters are sup- pOsed to be bad singers, and the audience gets the joke within the first minute · of the film. What grates on the nerve.s is that they have the unmitigating gall to expect. the viewer to sit through long stretches of their horrendous crooning. It is as if in their bl~tant narcissism, they want the audience to see how good they are at being bad. Isabelle Adjani is one of the most striking actresses of today, but is wasted under large amounts of clothing tbat make her look like a boy. As the • I comicly ·detached CiA agent, Charles Grodin does his usual competent job, but his presence is too limited and W1derwritten . Hoffm~n and Beatty hog the screen without shame, being neither fru1ny nor convincing in their roles. As a director, Elaine May did a bang up job in the. low-budget ''Desperately Seeking Susan\ but m this movie, she ·appears to have left her originality at home. Most of the 'pre-release publicity concerning \Ishtar'' tried to create the image of a funny movie that also had something worthwhile to be · 1 said. Yet, rather than being the seconcl coming of \M.A.S.H.'' \Ishtar\ is a statement of another kind. There is something sadly ironic about a movie about poverty costing 40 million dollars. fiLM GRADE: F guitar in 'Skyway'). The horn believe country called Ishtar. . .. ·section deserves attention, too, The two \comic cut-ups·' are 1 e d · \\'''\\ .. '\'\··-,, .• L•·, ''''''\\''''¥~!Ji~\''WWl'\*\'~li&fqrNftt.~~kwt~''*\'\\'\''~·'·'·'\'~'·;:,::.r; 1 ~N 4 ~~\:t'~~:~~:%&t··+rA 1 ?*\\'t:·.t•i•'l r-------........------------------.,..._- astray from their artistic en- -._ , :ui;§i~tN91~1JiJPiAit:r!;:tn:<;;:t'iW'1£:,,f-!~%;;~~~#ztt; '~ ~=!~1~~a~~ b(~~;~~) le!~in~ ~' scurrm1y CIA agent (Charles 8:00P.M. Nott Memorial Theatre Tues. May 26th- Fri. May 29th FREE Grodin). The plot centers around some foolishness about Hoffman and Beatty being mistaken for two holy messengers that are supposed Tickets Go On Sale $15.30 indudes admissions to park.& Bar·B-Q As the broadcast year comes to a close, we reflect on the music year gone by with the NEW 8~.7, t~e 89 .. 7 most popular. albums which have made their_ way i·nto the WRUC stud1os s1nce September and 1nto the hearts. of our DJ's and Hsteners. The countdown is based on the weekly compilation of the most frequently played albums on WRUC's turntables known as the NEW 8.97: :fi 1. 2. s. 4. 5. e. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. so. 31. 32. 33. 34. 35. 36. 37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48. 49. 50. ARTIST-ALBUM Husker Du - Warehouse: Songs and Stories XTC -Skylarking New Johnny 5- Alternative Tactics Firehose - Ragin Full On R.E.M. - Life's Rich Pagent The Smiths- Louder Than Bombs General Public - Hand to Mouth The Smiths - The Queen is Dead The Smithereens- Especially for You Various Artists ·Athens, GA, Inside/Out Guadalcanal Diary- Jamboree Suzanne Vega- Solitude Standing R.E.M. - Dead Letter Office U2 -The Joshua Tree Waxing Poetics - Hermitage China Crisis- What Price Paradise Rave U~- These Wishes 12\ lABEl Warner. Geffen Arts' a Passion SST IRS Sire IRS Sire Enigma IRS Elektra A&M IRS Island Em ergo A&M Fun Stuff They M1ght Be Giants -They Might Be Giants Beat Rodeo- Home in the Heart·of the Beat IRS Hoodoo Gurus- Blow Your Cool Elektra The Cure - Why Can't I Be You 12\ . Elektra The Holisemartins- London 0 Hull4 Eleklra Game Theory -The Big Shot Chronicles Enigma The. Replacements - Pleased to Meet Me Sire Timbuk 3- Greetings from Timbuk 3 IRS Billy Bragg - Talking with the Taxman Elektra Screaming Blue Messiahs · Gun Shy Elektra Scruffy the Cat - High Octaine Revival Relativity Julian Cope- Saint Julian Island Bob Geldof -This is the World Calling Atlantic Meat Puppet$ - Mirage · SST Kate Bush -The Whole Story EMI U B40 • Rat in the Kitchen A & M Wild Seeds - Brave, Clean and Reverent Jungle Big Audio Dynamite - No. 1Q Upping Street Columbia Psychadelic Furs - Mionight to Midnight Columbia The Johnsons - Break Tomorrow's Day Restless The Blow Monkeys - She's Only the Grocer's . . . RCA Souxie and the Banshies- Wheels on Fire 12\ MCA Wire- The Ideal Copy Enigma The New Dylans • The New Dylans Caveat Fine Young Cannibals -Ever Fallen in Love 12\ MCA · The Saints- All Fools Day TVT Bob Marley - Rebel Music Island Microdisney - Crooked Mile Virgin Andy White - Rave On MCA The Chameleons UK- Tears 12\ Geffen Batfish Boys - Head Twilight Golden Palominos- Blast of Silence Celluloid Cactus World News -The Bridge 12\ MCA ,. 51. Half Man Half Biscuit- Back to the D.H.S.S. 52. The 3 O'Clock • Ever After 53. The Straw Dogs -We are not Amused 54.. Jean Loves Jezebelle - Heartache 12\ 55. Rc:>byn Hitchcock- Element of Light 56. Talk1ng Heads- True Stories 57. Concrete Blonde- Concrete Blonde 58. Scruffy the Cat - Maybeshe-sallrigllt 59. Uncle Bonsai- !joys want sex in the Moming 60. Swamp Thing - I'm a Believer 12\ 61. Wire Train-Ten Women 62. The Modem Lovers - The Modern Lovers 63. Pete Townshend - Deep End live 64. Bruce Cockburn -World of Wonders 65. The Colourfield - Deception 66. The Mightly Lemon Drops .. Happy Head 67. Shriekback- Big Night Music 68. The Splatcats- Sandy, Candy, and Hank 69. Doc and the Medics - Laughing at the Pieces 70. Killing Joke - Sanity 12\ 71. Rods and Cones- Rods and Cones 72. Flesh for Lulu - klol 12\ · 73. Oingo Boingo- Boi-ngo 7 4. Soundtrack - Sid and Nancy 75. T.S.O.L - Revenge 76. Frontier Theory -Atlantic 77. HuxtonCreepers -12 Days to Paris 78. Icicle Works - Undertsanding Jane 1'2\ 79. Thatcher On Acid- The Moondance 80. Suicidal Tendencies- Join· the Army 81. Beat Farmers - Glad .n' Greasy 82. Hipsway- Hipsway 83. Wednesday Week -What We Had 84. The Damned- Anything 85. Jason the the Scorchers -Still Standing 86. Durnptrook ·Secrets 12a 87. The LucyShow- Mania 88. Love and Rockets - Express 89. The Dead Milkmen - Eat Your Paisley 89; 7 Love Delegation- Spread the Word Probe Pills IRS Restless Gennen Relativity Sire IRS Relativity Freckle Flaming Pie Columbia Beserkley-Rhino A teo MCA Chrysalis Sire Island Moving Target IRS Virgin Beggars B MCA Ehigrna Big Time Beggars.B Madmen Caroline Demor:1 Columbia ~ima EMI Big lime Big Time Big Time Restless Moving Target All of us at WRUC would like to thank our listeners for their continued support over the past ten months. We look forward to another outstanding year in our new studio in the upcoming student center. Conrad Tatge \Fast\ Ed Koval, Bill Boyd General Manager Programming Manager Music Director

·Page 1+ CONCORDJENSIS, May 28, 1987 THE ARTS By UNDERDOG Band: The Replacements Album: Pleased To Meet Me 'If he was from Venus would he meet us on the moon? If he died in Memphis that'd be cool' ... whines Paul Westerberg, the firecracker of this Min- neapolis trio, in a joyful tribute to the band's adopted mentor, Alex Chilton. Originally a raw hardcore quartet from Min- neapolis, (home of Husker Du l Westerberg taught himself guitar by mimicking old Allman Bros. records. Lately, this @and has matured into making emotionally brilliant sounds by finishing sentences and pLI1lc- tuating lyrics. Don't interpret that to mean Paul has sold out to be an imitator but rather that Westerberg is finally com- pleting his thoughts. as they create a new sound by keeping up with 2 cutting guitar SCJllil d. Although the l>and is great, Westerberg is truLy the hero here. As a follow-up to last year's college-radi.() \Tim\, this record is surprisingly con- sistent. Even the loss of guitarist Bob Stinson hasn't set their band back, a sign that this is a one-man show. Paul con- tinues to display the uncanny knack for articulating the ctDnfusion most of us feel bet- ween open acceptance (l[ the world and frustrated, angry cynicism. Now, let's see if they can equal the sarcasm of their last video which featured three min11tes of a stereo speaker playing, 'Kiss Me On The Bus\. Jim and Buddy at the Movies By JIM MacLAUGHLIN ISHTAR Starring Dustin Hoffman, Warren B-eatty and Isabelle Adjani. Directed b~i Elaine May. At Moh.awk Mall, Northway Mall, a!ld Crossgates Mall cinemas. Rated PG-13 Forty million dollars. Picture it and imagine all the worth- while things that one could accomplish with 40 million, and probably still have money left over. 40 million dollars. It was a figure thet kept haunting Buddy and I as we squirmed in our seats, tii'ying to endure the movie, \Ishtar\. Starring Dustin Hoffman and Warren Beatty, tile movie is the biggest waste of ttalent and money since the '78 J3;.()Silon Red Sox. Hoffmru.n and Beatty portray two in~Qmpentent singer- songwritErs whe accept a gig to play in Morocco. In Morocco, they be ~orne entangled in, (yawri) a rather predictable plot of foreign intrigue and mystery that involves a make- believe country called Ishtar. to free the poverty stricken people of Ishtar. rhe movie is barely watch- able, looking as if it can't decide whether t0 be a political- comedy or a Hope and Crosby type \road\ movie. What aU the big stars and directors forgot to do was make the movie funny. A few gags are attempted, b1:1t are so lame they insult the in- telligence. Hoffman and Beatty's characters are sup- posed to be bad singers, and the audience gets the joke within the first minute of the film. Wllat grates on the nerves is that they have the unmitigating gall to expect the viewer to sit through long stretches of their horrendous crooning. It is as if in their blatant narcissism, they want the audience to see how good they are at being bad. Isabelle Adjani is one of the most striking actresses of toclay, but is wasted under large amounts of clothing that make her look like a boy. As the com.icly detaclled CIA agent, Charles Grodin does his usual competent j0b, but his presence is too limited and underwritten . Hoffman and Beatty hog the screea without shame, being neither funny nor convincing in th.eir r-oles. As a director, Elaine May did a bang up job in the low-b,udget \Desperately Seeking Susan\ but in this movie, she appears to have left her originality at home. Most of the pre-release publicity concerning \lshtar\ tried to create the image of a funny movie that also had something worthwhile to be 'said. Yet, rather than being the second coming of \M.A.S.H.\, \Ishtar\ is a statement of another kind. There is something sadly ironic abollt a movie about poverty costing 40 million dollars. FILM GRADE: F Most appealing about the Replacements and this record is its diversity. Westerberg plays most of the guitars, some piano and a touch of harmonica. The record can be shockingly honest ('The Ledge') and raunchy ('Shooting Dirty Pool' J and still turn around and play a tear- jerker (listen to the acoustic guitar in 'Skyway'). The horn section deserves attention, too, The two \comic cut-ups·· are led Senior Week Trip to Great Escape Thurs., June 11 Tickets Go On Sale $15.30 ,.--~--------------------------~ astray fii'om their artistic en- No Exit 8:00P.M. Nott Memorial Theatre Tues. May 26th· Fri. May 29th FREE deavors by beautiful left-wing reactionsry ( Adjani) and a scummy CIA agent (Charles Grodin). 'The plot centers around S;Ctme foolishness about Hoffman and Beatty being mistakem. for two holy messengErs that are supposed includes admissions to park& Bar-B-Q As the broadcast year comes to a close, we reflect on the music year gone· by with the NEW 8~ .7, t~e 89.7 most popular_ albums which have made their way into the WRUC stud1os s1nce September and 1nto the hearts of our DJ's and listeners. The countdown is based on the weekly compilation of the most frequently played albums on WRUC's turntables known as the NEW 8.97: # 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. 31. 32. 33. 34. 35. 36. 37. 38. 39. 40. 41. 42. 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 48. 49 50 ARTIST-ALB UIIJI Husker Du- Warehouse: Songs and Sto-ries XTC - Skylarking New Johnny 5 -Ait·ernative Tactics Firehose- Ragin FL:JII On R.E.M.- Life's Rictl Pagent The Smiths- Lot:~derThan Bombs General Public -Hand to Mouth The Smiths- The Queen is Dead The Smithereens· Especially for You Various Artists - Athells, GA, Inside/Out Guadalcanal Diary -Jamboree Suzanne Vega -Solitude Standing R.E.M.- Dead Letter Office U2- The Joshua Tree Waxing Poetics- H-ermitage China Crisis- What Price Paradise Rave Ups - These Wishes 12\ LABEL Wamer Geffen Arts' a Passion SST IRS Sire IRS Sire Enigma IRS Elektra A&M IRS Island Emergo A&M Fun Stuff They Might Be Giants- They Might Be Giants Beat Rodeo- Homi3 in the Heart of thE Beat IRS Hoodoo Gurus- Blew Your Cool Elektra The Cure- Why Can't I Be You 12\ Elektra The Housemartin:s- London 0 Hull 4 Elektra Game Theory- Tile Big Shot Chronic;les Enigma The Replacements - Pfeased to Meet Me Sire Timbuk 3 -Greetings from Timbuk 3 IRS Billy Bragg- Talking with the Taxmai'l Elektra Screaming Blue Mes:siahs- Gun Shy- Elektra Scruffy the Cat· Hig~1 Octaine Revival Relativity Julial'l Cope- Saint Julian Island Bob Geldof - This is 111e World Calling Atlantic Meat Puppets- Mirage SST Kate Bush -The \Nfn()le Story EMI U840 -Rat in the K.itchen A & M Wild Seeds- Braw, Clean and Reverent Jungle Big Audio Dynamite- No. 10 Upping Street Columbia Psycliladelic Furs · Midnight to Midnight Columbia The Johnsons- Break Tomorrow's Da)l Restless The Blow Monkeys · She's Only the Grocer's ... RCA Souxie and the B.ansilies- Wheels on Fire 12\ MCA Wire - The Ideal Co!fl)l Enigma The New Dylans- ne New Dylans Caveat Fine Young Camib.als- Ever Fallen in U.ve 12\ MCA The Saints- All FCJols Day 1VT Bob Marley- Rebel M~sic Island Microdisney- Crooke-d Mile Virgin Andy White - R.ave On MCA The Chameleons UiK- Tears 12\ Geffen Batfish Boys- Head Twilight Golden Palominos- Blast of Silence Celluloid Cactus World News- The Bridge 12\ MCA 51. Half Man Half Biscuit- Back to the D.H.S.S. 52. The 3 O'Clock- Ever After 53. The Straw Dogs- We are not Amused 54. Jean loves Jezebelle- Heartache 12\ 55. Robyn Hitchcock- Element of Light 56. Talkrng Heads -True Stories 57. Concrete Blonde - Concrete Blonde 58. Scruffy the Cat- Maybeshe-sallright 59. Uncle Bonsai - Boys want sex in the Morning 60. Swamp Thing- I'm a Believer 12\ 61. Wire Train- Ten Women 62. The Modem Lovers - The Modern Lovers 63. Pete Townshend - Deep End Uve 64. Bruce Cockburn -World of Wonders 65. The Colour~eld - Deception 66. The Mightly Lemon Drops - Happy Head 67. Shriekback- Big Night Music 68. The Splatcats -Sandy, Candy. and Hank 69. Doc and the Medics- laughing at the Pieces 70. Killing Joke- Sanity 12• 71. Rods and Cones - Rods and Cones 72. Flesh for Lulu - Idol 12\ 73. Oingo Boingo - Boi-ngo 74. Soundtrack- Sid and Nancy 75. T.S.O.L. - Revenge 76. Frontier Theory- Atlantic 77. Huxton Creepers - 12 Days to Paris 78. Icicle Works - Undertsanding Jane 12\ 79. Thatcher On Acid- The Moondance 80. Suicidal Tendencies- Join the Army 81. Beat Farmers - Glad n' Greasy 82. Hipsway - Hi psway 83. Wednesday Week - What We Had 84. The Damned- Anything 85. Jason the the Scorchers- Still Standing 86. Dumpb'uck- Secrets 12\ 87. The Lucy Show- Mania 88. Love and Rockets - Express 89. The Dead Milkmern- Eat Your Paisley 89.7 Love Delegation- Spread the Word Probe Plus IRS Restless Gennen Relativity Sire IRS Relativity Freckle Flaming Pie Columbia Beserkley-Rh ino Atco IVICA Chrysalis Sire Island Moving Target IRS Virgin Beggars B MCA Enigma Big Time BeggarsB Madmen Caroline Demon Columbia ~~ma EMI Big Time Big Time Big Time Restless Moving Target All of us at WRUC would like to thank our listeners for their continued support over the past ten months. We look forward to another outstanding year in our new studio in the upcoming student center. Conrad Tatge \Fast\ Ed Koval, Bill Boyd General Manager Programming Manager Music Director

' CONCORDIENSIS, · M 28, 1987 Page 15 Cabaret: Something Old, Something New 'IIY JULIE STEINBERG Callaret Thursday nigHt could be best described as \Bringing out the old, and bringing in the new!' The first act was made up. ef Jim Havard and Melanie Mast-erson. To those of us who will lbe graduating in sixteen fleeting days, . Jim has been a backllone performer .of Cabaret durhg his fo.ur years at Union. His -voice has· always made people feel comfortable as he has SI.Ulg the songs of James rayl«lr, The Eagles, The GratEful Dead, and even numer0ous ;pieces that he has written himself. He is talented not ()my on the guitar, but also 1m th:e piano and between the two instrlUllents, Jim is. able to boUilce back and forth from llpbeat songs like Pure Prairie Le!:l!glle's ''Arnie,\ to more mell()!W tWles like The Ecrgles' \Desperado\, a Cabaret classii.e. Jim nas often performed with Melanie Masterson and Wendy ';-'. Richards. · Both Melanie and Wendy have added a soft harmony to Jim's voice, but each has a tone Which makes her voice individual and distinct from the other. This week Melanie deliglited the audience with her rendition of Suzanne Vega's \The Princess and The Soldier.\ Melanie was a little hesitant as to whether she woUld remember all of the words, but lt was quite,.obvious by the audience's applause tliat she did- ern eJCemplary job. . Next to perform was Andy Gon~ales on tile piano. Although he initially seemed quite ner- vous, the crowd gave Andy a warm and welcome reception. His style is similar to that .of George Winston. andhistalentb also -comparable. Andy played several pieces that he wrote himself and his descriptions and explanations fit the pieces quite well. The final act of the night was a . group of llewcomers whieh consisted of Andy Maas ()n lJQOCtl 1 0Q' t4 E C ' guitar, Joel McKuin on piano, and Clayton Williams on the cell(). Alwnnus Scott Remalard played saxophone with the trio for several tunes. Andy and Joel opened their set with Simon and Garf'unkel's classic hit, \Me and Julio Down By ·the Schoolyard,\ and from that point on it was evident that there was talent amongst these two men. Joers lively piano pl:aying rejuvenated anyone that might have been dozing off under Hale House's dark lights. J:im and Melanie later came back on stage for \Brown Eyed Girl.\ In the same manner that Jim Havard has. found his niche in Cabaret, so have Joel, Andy, and Clayton. They performed with a style that kept the .audience well entertained, and :played songs. that were familiar to the crowd. The night~ once again, proved to be a success, and all should , be ~ngratulated for an out- :stancling performance. Looking Ahead in the World of Entertainment Fall Term at Proctors Classic Campus Comedy (Saturday, 'S.ept. 12) Sever:~L entertaining acts which include: Tom Deluca, a hypnotist/comedim who alos does collli.c magic tricks; Dan Riley a comic musical impressionist; and the J abberwocks, a six-lllan a cappella group that specializes in fifties music. Song and Dance (Tues.-Sun., Sept. 22-2-7) An exciting 11eVil musical starring Melissa Manchester. La Cage aux Folies (Fri.-$at., Oct. 2-4.) In the worcls of o.ne critic: \Based on Jean Poiret's long running French comedy about a pair of aging hornosexllallovers, it emerges as an old-fashioned family musical despite it's unorthodox premi.se.\ Circus Royal (Sun., Oct. 11) Proctor's brings a circus live to tlteir stage, complete with animals and acrobats in combination with magical acts -.Jfill us ion. Beehive (Wed., Nov. 18) \The music oftlle 60's.sealcd will1 a kiss.\ Waves (Thurs., Nov. 19) A fast paced performance that inco!Jlorates Jazz, breakdance, belly dance and roller skating, Student and Group (20+) Rates Available For more information call Mrs. Marra at 6118 _SEfl\IICING • REPAIR OVERHAULING (5UJ377·2268 (24HR. TOWING· 374-1067) MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE M.ICHAEl 'II. CVDYLO MERCEDES BENZ • BMW AUDI• V,W. • HONDA 349 ANTHONY STREET SCHENECTADY, NY 12308 T EARTS Hope Brings Humor to R.P.I. By ILMAR VANDERER On Friday, May 15, only 10 days before his 84th birthday celebration, legendary comedian Bob Hope visited nearby Troy and performed hi~ new Show at the R.P .I. Fieldhouse. Sponsored by St. Peter's Hospital, this program helped raise funds for a new addition to the South End Community Health Center, which provides vital health care services to residents of Albany's South End. Accompanied only by an orchestra, Hope was in peak form throughout this \one-man show\. He was greeted with a. standing . ovatio~, and began with one-liners about his air- plane trip, and his motel room in Troy. As llsual, Hope's unique brand of homor also included many topical themes, such as Reagan's policies, air pollution, sex therapy, television evangelists, and, of course, the latest about George Bums' love life. Later in a me:rr.orable · musical ntlnlber, Hope glided across the stage, dancing in . tune to a song from his clctssic film \Paleface\, as he recalled . comical highlights from his 60 year show Lusiness career. The ·spotlight also shifted to Hope's wife, Dolores, who sang \I Love You Just the Way You Are\ and ''On a Clear Day You Can See Ji'orever\ with a tenderness and sincerit7 in her voice which reflected the love and affectiJn she and her husband have shared during 52 years of marriage. As she left the stage, Hope fondly referl'ed to her numerous appearances on his shows as \steady work\. After Hope concluded his performance with a fast-paced monologue, the Religious Sisters o.f Mercy, sponsors of St. Peter's Hospital, presented Hope and his wife with awards to commemorate their generosity in support of the South End CommWiity Health Center. For me, it seemed that the evening had passed too quickly. 1'he following week had also passed quickly, as I awaited Hope's televised special celebrating his 84th birthday. Hope was joined on location, at an Air Force base in North Carolina by guests Don Johnson, Barbara Mandrell, Brooke Shields, Lucille Ball, Phylicia Rashad, Phyllis Diller and Alabama. As expected, his birthday show was a complete success, although in retrospect, I valued the occasion of wat- ching him in person even more . . Arts News

CONCORDIE!\'SJS, May 28, 1987 Page 15 - MAi? Cabaret: Something Old, Something New By JULIE STEINBERG Cabaret Thursday night eou]:d be best described as \Bringing out the old, and bringing in the new.\ The first act was made up of Jim Havard and Melanie Masterson. To those of us who will be graduating in sixteen fleeting days, J irn has been a backbone performer of Caharet during his four years at Uniofl. His voice has always made people feel comfortable as he has sung the songs of James Taylor, The Eagles, The Grateful Dead, and even numerous pieces that he has written himself. He is talented not only on the guitar, but also on the piano and between the two instrwnents, Jim is able to l>owlCe back and forth from apbeat songs like Pure Prairie League's \Arnie to more mellow tunes like The Eagles' \Desperado\, a Cabaret classic. Jim has often performed with Melanie Masterson and Wendy Richards. Both Melanie and Wendy have added a soft harmony to Jim's voice, but each has a tone which makes her voice individual and distinct from the other. This week Melanie delighted the audience with her rendition of Suzanne Vega's \The Princess and The Soldier.\ Melanie was a little hesitant as to whether she would remember al:l of the words, hut it was quite obvious by the audience's applause that she did an exemplary job. Next to perform was Andy Gonzales on the piano. Although he initially seemed quite ner- vous, the crowd gave Andy a warm and welcome reception. His style is similar to that ,of George Winston and his talent is also comparable. Andy played several pieces that he wrote himself and his descriptions and explanations fit the pieces quite well. The final act of the night was a group ef newcomers which consisted of Andy Maas on • guitar, Joel McKuin on piano, and Clayton Williams on the cello. Alumnus Scott Remalard played saxophone with the trio for several tunes. Andy and Joel opened their set with Simon and Garfunkel's classic hit, \Me and Julio Down By The Schoolyard,'' and from that point on it was evident that there was talent amongst these two men. Joel's lively piano playing rejuvenated anyone that might have been dozing off under Hale House's dark lights. Jim and Melanie later carne back on stage flor \Brown Eyed Girl.\ In the same manner that Jim Havard has found his niche in Cabaret, so have Joel, Andy, and Clayton. They perfonned with a style that kept the audience well entextained, and played songs that were familiar to the crowd. The night, once again, proved to be a success, and all should be congratulated for an out- standing performance. Looking Ahead in the World of Entertainment Fall Term at Proctors Classic Campus Comedy (Saturday, Sept. 12) Several entertaining acts which include: Tom Deluca, a hypnotisUcomedian who alos does comic magic tricks; Dan Riley a comic musical impressionist; and the Jabberwocks, a six-man a cappella group that specializes in fifties music. Song and Dance (Tues.-Sun., Sept. 22-27) An exciting new musical starring Melissa Manchester. La Cage aux Folies (Fri.-Sat., Oct. 2-4) In the words of one critic: \Based on Jean Poiret's long running French comedy about a pair of aging homosexual lovers. it emerges as an old-fashioned family musical despite it's unorthodox premise.\ Circus Royal (Sun .• Oct. 11) Proctor's brings a circus live to their stage, complete with animals and acrobats in combination with magical acts of illusion. Beehive (Wed., Nov. 18) \The music of the 60's sealed with a kiss.\ Waves (Thurs., Nov. 19) A fast paced performance that incorporates Jazz, brcakdance, belly dance and roller skating. SERVICING • REPAIR OVERHAULING (518) 377-2268 Student and Group (20+) Rates Available For more information call Mrs. Marra at 6118 MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE MiCHAEL W. CYOYLO MERCEDES BENZ • BMW ft.UOI• V.W '\HONDA (24 HR. TOWING • 37-t-1061) 349 ANTHONY STREET SCHENECTADY, NY 12308 THE ARTS Hope Brings Humor to R.P.I. By ILMAR VANDERER On Friday, May 15, only 10 days before his 84th birthday celebration, legendary comedian Bob Hope visited nearby Troy and performed his new show at the R.P.I. Fieldhouse. Sponsored by St. Peter's Hospital, this program helped raise ftmds for a new addition to the South End Community Health Center, which provides vital health care services te residents of Albany's South End. Accompanied only by an orchestra, Hope was in peak form throughout this \one-man show\. He was greeted with a standing ovation, and began with one-liners about his air- plane trip, and his motel roem in Troy. As usual, Hope's unique brand of homor also included many topical themes, such as Reagan's policies, air pollution, sex therapy, televisi()n evangelists, and, of course, the latest about George Burns' love life. Later in a men:.orable musical number, Hope glided across the stage, dancing in tune to a ~ong from his clc~ssic film \Paleface\, as he recalled comical highlights from his 50 year show Lusiness career. The spotlight also shifted to Hope's wife, Dolores, who sang \I Love You Just ttle Way You Are\ and \On a Clear Day You Can See Forever\ with a tenderness and sincerit'f in her voice which reflected tbe love and affectiJn she and her husband have shared during 52 years of marriage. As she left the stage, Hape fondly referred to her numerous appearances on his shows as \steady w0rk\. After Hope conch1ded his performance With a fast-paced monologue, the Religious Sisters of Mercy, sponsors of St. Peter's Hospital, presented Hope and his wife with awards to commemorate their generosity in suppert of the South End Community Health Center. For me, it seemed that the evening had passed too quickly. The following week had also passed quickly, as I awaited Hope's televised special celebrating his 84th birthday. Hope was joined on location, at an Air Force base in North Carelina by guests Don Johnson, Barbara Mandrell, Brooke Shields, Lucille Ball, Phylicia Rashad, Phyllis Diller and Alabama. As expected, his birthday show was a complete success, although in retrospect, I valued the occasion of wat- ching him in person even more. ~----------------------------------------~ .Arts News Caffe Lena This weekend\ Tony Bird and Morris Goldberg will be appearing at Caffe Lena in Saratoga Springs. The show starts at 8:30p.m. For reser~ vations call 583-0022. Tony Bird sings and plays an acoustic guitar. Morris Goldberg plays the har- moniea and the flute. He performs on Paul Simon's Grammy award winning album \Graceland\ and in the hit soag \You Can Call Me AI.'' Dr11m & Buule The . Law, Order, and Jusi{ee center of S~heneetad:y is sponsoring the northeast's first drum· W'td _bugH~ corps competiti()n featuring._ the; Bu{!caneerst .Oaballeras; Hurricanes; Sky1in:ers; and Sunrisers. The five eompetirig corps combined have won the national championshlp six times in the .past ten years. This competition will be held June 13 at 8 pm at Heritage Park in Colonie. The dQnation is $7. For further information call Dean Daniels X6232. , Albany Pro Musica \ Albany Pro Musiea-a chamber choral group based in the area, will perform works by Bacll, Bruckner, Mendelssohn, Dvorak, .Zaimont and Persichettt The performance is at B pm, May 30 at the Cathedral of All Saints in Albany. No Exit The play NO EXIT~ by French Existentialist Jean .. Paul Sart.re will be performed in the Nott May 26 .. 29 at 8 pm. The performance is FREE. The play is directed by Stephen M. Burdtnan and produced by the Union College Arts Department~ by special arrangement with Samael French, lne. We. ekend Movies . . This year's CAMP UNION movies will be ''Repo Mann and {'Rocky liorror Pietnre Sbow. H They wiU be shown in front or the libtary. at 9 pm Friday ·. n .... ll\'. ik+ . • ~ . ~~~tt.

· Page 16 PERSONALS US- It's been an amazing year. Looks like I made it (in a big way) .. Thanks for all your ad- vice. Looking forward to a great swnmer. -Lau Al, Thanksf()r a great year. Long rides to NYC, Friendly's, and various other extracurricular activities. Get psyched for firenza! -Lau Dear Sis: What's the difference bet- ween an Irishman and a Jew? Don't ask me, ask the boy from Troy. Love, MIC from the sticks Congratulations Donna, Carolyn, and Elena on your graduation. I'll miss you next year. Ann To Hals Pals: Don't we really know what turns Hal -:Jn? At least you all do! Hey Doozer, Happy birthday and happy graduation, a little early! Gina's friend, Love always, Me I want my Donald Duck picture back! Gina's roommate Allison, What else can you do with lolli-pops? Are the green ones really the best? -A Spectator BradD: Are you aware of your girlfriend's unfaithfulness? I hear the colU1t is at about eleven, wake up! -A friend Steve B. I heard it was a really ''HOT\ shower. -An intruder Allison & Shawna, How many times will we go back for more? Amy George- ! love you and always will. Here's thE personal you've wanted. It's your last one until January. HTSEOOTSMMT- ILYEIWBF +Wez To my key·less, clue-less roomie: I love you. It's been a great year (despite ow~ con- trasting views-1'11 make a great lawyer some day). See u at the Seaport- Messy KT -Get psyched for LSE- We're out of here! I love you- Me. . If anyone f()und a Mass. license plate No. 267DZJ outside of Sig. Chi late Thursday night please turn it in to Security. You will be rewarded. M. Caruso ALL OF THE PROCEEDS FROM LAST WEEK'S DDD SMOKE OUT WILL BE GOING TO THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY OF SCHENEC- TADY. THE SISTERS OF DELTA DELTA DELTA WOULD UKE TO THANK EVERYONE WHO DONATED THE \PRICE OF A PACK.\ CONCORDIENSJS, May 28, '1987 To my seni()r grad uatimg friends who made this year the sweetest . yet at Union- CONGRATULATIONS! Elenil', Donna, and Rich, thanks for all the great memories'! -\Little One\ . Lakshmi, Robin, Jessica, and Lorie, fall term just won't be tbe same Without you! I'll miss you guys-ENJOY! -Maria Ang-Thanx for all the · memorable moments here ar1d over there. Who am I going to \Nihongo o benkiy() shimasll\ with next year? You will truly be missed ... Love, Julie Michelle-Wehav~ come a long way these tl:lrEe years, and things won't be the same without your smiling face. Best of lucl!. with everything. 1. kno-w you'll be great! Love. yourfir::lt little sis' Dear Gang, I am going to miss all of you soooo much. Write me or else I'll ... I'll run away with Jean•Pierre and never come back. Lots of love, Jen Kat, What am I going to do without you·nex:t year. Come to Paris and be my roommt~tE; Have fun in Washington an.d Italy! Love, Mo i Scott Decker, Thanks for the vacation. Mom is no longer 'livid because I gave her Or eo cookies, Minnie Mouse earrings, and B11d as a pea<:e offering. -Alias J.C. Tony - Thanks for the ride home! Hope you had a goCJd time - I'll be rea]y impressed if you remember my name! Ape a Vic, Patti and Bret, Thar~ks br everything! A sick pea Wimmie-There are no w1nds to tell you how much yow friendship has meant to me these past two years. You're a true friend in every sense of tt1e word. Thanks ... Love, Pan!lrea Steve- Hove you dearly, but isn.'t it a · little early for whipped cream?! -love always, Cyndie Steve and. Rick- How'd you ex:pect me tl} be able to take on tw<J of yo11 at once?! .. .I'm ONtY a fresh· man!! Rachel: Thanks for showing us ho'\V being a thro~t pays off: Congratulations on getting tlu plaque! ... But Rach, let's not forget tlte lesson on getting out of tlte telephone b()oth and th.e meaning of Thursday nights.! ... seriously though,. We had a great year RacbeJ, THANK YOU! inFOXication, 1986-19!17 Quite the formal, eh Missa? Let's do it again shall we? Beck 3rd Floor Fox S. Thanks for making winter and spring tenn so much fun. You were a gre~t floor. Eilee11 J.D. You were the best co•RA I could have had. 'fulillx for bein,f5. there when I needed sorneone.to ·lean on. Ei Like WOW f'm a Valley Moron!! • ' .Joe Pomroy- Thanks for the CSN&Y in~ troduction! The fall and winter terms were .fun. Have a great sunnnner! · ~A.L. Coffee- Only 98 days to go! Now don't 'YOU forget to .bring the econo- :pak! Thanks for au the many memories! There are many more to come! Are you sure we didn't meet in a previous li:fe'? ! Love you lots! ZZ 'To Union Crew Seniors- - You're the greatest. It's been .a sick year. We'll miss you. D<Jn't lose that lovin' feeling. Rmmmate needed fall term - male or female 3 bdrm. apart• · :ment on Seward. Cheap but , dean and spacious. Call x418.8. ; :Dearest Patrick, · l Real friends never lose touch. 'You'll always have a place here \With us. We love you and we'll miss you! Kathy and Lorri Ren & Donna: Thanks for a , . great year. You guys are the . ilest. Ken - Best of luck next year. Donna - Hope you find :S11Illil1:er romance. Don & Hola Woman iley guys, It was a great year. Thanks for the memories. Next year might even be better. Hope I'm here to tell. DAN 13. Lorraine: Thanks for the belp with my 46 triple D cup on .Saturday. Don't forget the pizza • illlder the desk trick. No more · men in MY bed. Love, Ali Iv.r, This MARKS the end of a great year! Next year, more pizz;a, more beer and more . men! No more elephants, Love · · EH • , Uan-Woman, Bufster and Em- 1 miss, you dudes are the best. Thanks for your laughter and .fodd. There's too much to .Clluckle about - oh well, Love, Frankie Princess, Remember, I'll always be in yCJur heart! Your Captain Fr:ihcess, 'l'hanks for making my last two years the best!. I love you!! Eoi>by 'lbe past two years have been a blast working for you. Congratulations on your retirement. You'll truly be missed. Love, Danielle Erika- 'lbank you for the Mexican \experiences.'' Love, Manolo '\My Irish Child- Where are you lingering? At a tea party? Or how about br11nch? Is it Lo? mine's Ha?- . with or without shQes. AL-Thanks ·you saved me Shopping? -L To .FUTURE 253D: Let's do lunch. Gina, Happy Birthday! (You finally got a personal). Love, Chris :Dear Sis: :Retnembet· that when good things come in time, they must al:sD come t() an end. Dear Freddy: If you only knew how much those Calvins and that ,3€lO.SX really turn me on! · Love The Big \V\ To the Class of 1987 Who maximized their Fun Factor? Cancerstid: Only th~ good die young, so live life as if you were about to di ' e. DDD: Instead o·£ \Do you want to watch TV\ how about ''Would , ' ' you Uke to see ou.r refrigerat()t?\ Geri- . Thanks .for being a grEat co- R.A. and a good sport to(). Vice~ President: ls there nothing this 0 girl can't d~? Mick SHAWNA- When \'lbe fine man\ w~ars his MAmenican .flag shirt; ... Do it for your ~ountry! Lovoe,kE. Reeses Pieces, To the best roomie and great · friend~ Richmond :wasn't so bad, was it? Here's to .alUhe f11n times we shared - what about those Beta boys?! I'll miss you! lhve,Ali Unser & Jules, You mad.e Richmond mu(!b more bearable. Anyone for a late night talk or lounge i Good · luck fall term next year! I'll miss you! Lo-ve, Ali Amy s., All I have to say is: Th-e lines on the back of your .door, do in fact work; He•e-y-y! and .... what did we eat after smoking on Friday! Lauren F., Lvve, A.E. What can I say? You'11e tile beans! Here's to the past year and all the great times: to Florida; to our being 'in- terested' in best friends; to late night talks and 'ditzy' moments - there are too many to count! . and to om many \crushes.\ Gey psyclud £or next year in Italy! B.F .F., Love, .Alison 4 seniors are graduating and their apartment is available f()r evermore. For info. call 374- 3243. Sheri W., ·Po you have any more questions .Qn that subject? I guess11owyouknow it to the .full extent. I'll miss those talks- ·renu~mber the one we had in the library New section? I'll miss you. Love, AliPali Meesh\\'-You're the hesU Thanx f?r all the tnemories and great tnnesr I love you tons. VBH Muffy~ Test your S.A.T. capability with this (delayed) analogy Fluffy :Bobby::-..----.-- . A. pois<m .ivy :.leprosy B. SAturday: Wednesday C. Spr.int: jog D. Joy:Sprint Chris; These p_ast four years have been the greatest-all because of you. You're the best! · · Love you, Gina P.S. Kappy Birthday!! Gus- I'll miss you more than you'll know. Between Krakow & . WPshington, I wish you all the . luck in the world! ---,AM Oeuf- A. foreign country without you? I'm vat sure I can do it. Then again, I'll have s_onieone ( el~e .. .moi\e appreciative?) to wntetoeveryday. (ifthere was chill in the air,. I would tell you). Homme SOT Sisters, thank you for entertaining me! Y:ou did a great j«>b! Had a great time. Love and miss you all. Love, Heather Dear Steven Congratulations on your graduation. I am so proud of you. I will miss you so mucl1 next year ... I love you, --Chris A S.K.-thanks for the most inc1 edtble weekend ever! Lots of love, E. Pebbles To 3rd Floor West-Esp X, John, Shot, Jeff, Todd, Jen & Di, Keith & Larry, Jen & Kris, Kim & Karen, Pete & Brad, Robin, Mel, Virg, Elaine, Maria,. Cindy -thanks fora great year. Dave ~&lrJl[p GD~D®~ [fjja\)J ~® Have fun but please note: The College Policy prohibits the presence and use of alcohol at public outdoor events In honor of Camp Union no open containers or kegs will be aflowed. Thank you.

CONCORDIENSI!i, May 28,. 1987 Page ~7 hambam (ask) Did we pass? · We got an A from Mom & Dad! . Laurel & 'Hardy, white sands - touche. Do you love cats? I do! Can't wait for summer. Love- · Pebbles · Doug- Yes you! Wbere would Astronomy be without you? 'l'hat was the most enlightening presentation of the century. Warner Brothers should be • notified. I hope I live long enough to tell my grandchildren· · aoout this. But the suspense . really built up, waiting, an- ticipating that wonderful event. Lisa & Jason- llave a nice time in England! {postcards are pretty cool,. · aren't they?) · -Athena and Kelley PS-See you this summer! Bob- Have a nice time in Europel (P()stcards are very cpol, aren't they?) '\\\\\Athena . Linda C. Happy 21st birthday! Get · drunk and have a blast. Lisa Elissa, _ Happy 21st birthday! You're . legal & psyche~. Lisa Rebecca, strep throat or mono - NAH .•. Just allergies. Get well soon ...... Jimmy Kellee & Lara (Kids) ... It's been fun this year, most of the time! Have a great summer, just. think only 3 years to go ..... Morn & Dad DG Seniors, Contrats, you . survived 4 yrs. Enjoy your week! We'll miss you! PG Tag Hob, It's only a year. We'll be in touch. · Lisa Mere, Enjoy China! Don't forget the \ditu and chopsticks! · To all bathing beauties, (S, L, M, C, P) Enjoy fall '87 but don't forget about me here in Doidland. -C Rachel-check the l'ounge! Mary, -Shelia, Maria, Kate, Lisa:...Have a great fall term!-- Keep the post .cards coming. We'll miss you. DG Michele, Good luck next year! Just remember you'll always have a house to come back to. DG Kate and Lisa, Happy birthday! Celebrate - we know you bOth know how! 00 Thanks to everyone who par- . ti.cipated in the DG Olympics - making them the best ·ever! Ed Koval, Thanks for all your help. We appreciated it. 00 Yvonne, Donna, Woo, .Lisa, Lynne, Shari, Virginia, Pickles, · Hannia, Ingrid, Wendy, Carol, Wittie., Nora, Cathy, Drena, Cindy, Dawn,. Patty, and.Jen- You better come back and visit next year or else .... · Kate and Ellen aave .an amazing time in Italy this fall! Eat lots of Gelato and watch out for those Italian men. Chow! Your ex-next door . . NElGH;BOR: . Madamoiselles Kathleen & -Lorraine- You'll have the time of your life in France next fall, but you better be looking forward to · winter because we're going to have a lot to catch up on! I'm going' to really miss you two. Have a fantastic term, but try to · stay out of trouble! ~on Voyage! Loveya, EV GOOD-BYE FRIENDS: Have a great term abroad in France. Thanks for keeping in touch with me aU year! Have . some French mac-n-cheese for me. I'll love you forever! . Your best Friend, · Terri 2nd Floor Davidson North- Thanks for an unforgettable year! You're the best! --Judy Dear Heart Ph<lniom, Next year, wh-o's going to appreciate my ImUsic? Who's going to kiss y-omr kids good- night? And who'~g~·ingto be the best suitemate !l g'ir\l could ever have? I'll miss yo11! Amos,-Nothing could ever come between thE· world - not even graduation . Congrat- · ulations buddy! Tothe graduating seniors of Phi Sigma Kappa- Wishing you iifl the best of · luck in anything r~u may at- tempt. We'll miss you - Take care. Love · Yo1UL little sisters Scotty+Norton ~and I will be expecting you to keep in . touch ... and alw~:rs remember be thankful yom t~ngue isn't too · short to eat hard l:!Ungs .... Take care. · Pandrea- One of the ID~st difficult things about gr-aduation is leaving friends like you. l promise to write if y~u promise. to keep smiling- Love, Wimmie Bye-Bye Bubbles~ ... rm really going to miss YIJU~.~ .. U.C.C.D.C. Execl!tive Board meeting followed by the \Red Death.\ SUnday at .Hugh's--the tradition lives on! !! Pres. M.W. Dizzy (Pebbles). Had an amazoitlg. weekend- looking .forward t() many more with you! Lo~e, Bam Bam Di?;zy (Pebbles), Lpoking forwvard to an amazing summer with you! Can't wait! Hey Mannino- Love, Bam Bam You're gonna rniss me! ! ! ! LOST-Gold r()lpechain. Very special, very se11ti::m.ental. Any information call Cln·is x4094. Dear B.D.F.P., Well, one year clo'Wn. I hope you have a rewarcliag sununer DD. the garbage tru<:k. Love,. Crazy Union College Film Committee presents: Camp Union Friday, ay 29 Library Plaza ®IT®®®r;s lr:il®WO(]@ 9:00 WARNER BROS. CAFl.TOONS 10:00 REPO MAN 11:30 ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW Admission is free, but don't forget to bring a blanket. In case of rain, movies will be held in SS016 2nd Floor::- West: South will be very quiet. No more West College 700, but I sure will miss it. The hall spurts, the B.S., the 2nd Floor cr\ew ... Web The 3 M~s-T'banx for the \education\ yo11 guys have given me these past two term· s ... I never CCluld 'hav:e ,p1·edicted my future fun, I guess. we all got lucky · I'llmLss you ,guys! Love,. Y:<lur DeLta Suitemate ToMRMMLC You 'fi al w~y,s be my room· mate . arJd always he my best friend. Good !11ck always. . Love YRMMAM Hey Rick- How was :y()ur shower? The whipped cr-e~rn was pretty kinky, eh?! Laura (Noreen!'!) The insurance oooney for your Wilrt removal is ln & look no +!! ?-t- sores! We know yoU:'!:l miss us .because we'll1niss ;ro11. Love:IJ.s alwa:ys M-M ~Su:ah: and Kate) Chelby, Lester, :Lydi Mulest me, Beatly, Wags anliBlieker-Can you ·believ:e that ~e all made it without any of us tt'anferring! ! Cmgrats to aU! LcJ\'le, Kim by Hey! You Gran<ll.;~s! I may be just a chocolatecllipGJ!l raisin in your Granola Cllttster but someday I'll be a. Gr:anola too! Remember: 212 cal()ries. the sun is yellow an-<! :tl!e sky is blue (Was GarcJlCJ ,(!Oior blin- d!!), Deadheads do~~<'t match: H()tsesh-t r-~----------~~--~~------~-----------, The Statistics Lab is Open: Mondays- Thursdays: 2: 30-4:30 P.M~ and 7:00-lt:OO P.M. Fridays: 10:30 A.M.-12:30 P.M. Sandays: 7:00 P.M.-11:00 P.M. Stlldent consultants will be available during the~e ltou.rs to answer questions regarding TSP, SPSSIX. Minitab, B:MDP, i Sibyl/Runner,. how to log on, anf the EDT editor. ( CONGRATULATIOIS ) - to t-he staff and editors. of Concordiensis for making il a great year. Don't .forget the baseball game on Friday The new sociology course Cons1itutional law and Soci~ty in Bra~dl and the U.S. Sociology 160 wiU be held frorn 2':40 - 4:20 on Tuesdays and Thursdays (gel time #6) Not during gel time #4 (12:40 on Tuesd~ys and Thursdays) Tha BrazDiGn Fulbright Fellow, Dr. Ester Kosow~ wUI tee~ch t•is course. · ROCK-n-ROLL PIZZA & SUB SHOP WeekOt Specials Free Delivery on Campus - 3 70-60.6~0 ...

• Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 WANTED: Student help right . The American Poetry CLUB 1\.TDU7S now and for the summer for Ass~»ciation sponsors several . 1 ~ .n ,, j · various kinds of work in .a SCHOLARSHIPS J}(Jetry contests a year. Prizes furniture store. Can be part Tile Adolph Coors Company awarded total more than t·· 1 d f 1 RAS announces its 1987 Coors Pro-Life Forum: There will · une rna e an ema e. , · · . $1S,OOO, including Grand .Prizes . be a meetm· g on M·onda· y, .June. , . Furniture, 823 Eastern Ave., Veterans' Memorial Scholar- of$l,OOO. The current contest's 374 7785 sh~pFund COmpetition. Open to dEadline is June 30 . . 1, at 7:30 p.m. in SSOlO. Elec- - · · · dependents of veterans of the • Poets interested in entering tions ~or next year· U.S. Armed Forces, the . the contest should send three scholarship of up to $5,000 will }l«lems, each no more than 20 be awarded to a minimum of 100 lines, with their names and CLASSIFIEDS recipients. Applicants must be addresses on the top of each 22 years old or younger as of pc.age, to American Poetry · Furnished Apartment to sublei- June 20 ·Aug. 20- Upper Unirn Street, 2 bedroom, gar-age $325-month. Mike 393- 8191. July 1, 1987, have a cum of 3.0 or · A.ss()ciation, Dept. CN20, 250-A better, have completed the Potrero Street, P. 0. BOK 1803, · freslunan year but not their S:anta Cruz, CA 95061-1803. senior year, and be a dependent of a veteran. For more in- formation and applications contact the Financial Aid Office. The application deadline is July 1, 1987 for the 1987 competition. Congratulations: Meredith Au!Pn K·1m Bradford VaiBromberg Beth Churchill Claudia Dudack Trac i Farber llysseFeingold Ma.r'a Fisher Stephanie Gass Maria Gonzaga llseJenouri Andrea KapJ.an Sue Lindenberg Meredith McCartt Anita McMahon Jill Nadler M1>:helle PacKer Gina Padula Shari Ruoff Arlene s·ilverio Amy Sirkin Gail Tanke! Barbara WeiSinger -The Flowers (~!'the Soul are Nw·torcd With the Bonds •dLm·e -Love the Sisters Of Delta Delta Delta Wientnnn' s I : QII Clttt£rs & mailors 1li tn .. 171-4 UNION Sl AE.ET (518) 374-6647 '0 •/o tt\t'( .c.~ . ,. ,_,;t\ u \4\'{ s Specializing in Suede & Leather Cleaning ~ sc.o o\ ' Shirts·& B1ouses Laundered Zippers Replaced e Jeans Shortened Charge Accounts Welcome For Sale: 1968 Ford Mustang (black): 289 V-8, GT .hood, auto . trans., dual exhaust, power steering, AM FM cassette with equalizer, alarm. Engine is excellent, body is in verY good condition, no rust, aluminum wheels, raised letter tires. Must sell before end of school $1,700 or best offer. Call ~6835. Roomate needed (Female) . Inexpensive rent, close to campus (1.512 VanVranken), 2 seniors, 1. junior. Call386-4482 or 386-4481 {hard to get· hold of-keep trying.) Summer sublet · 4 bedroom (willing to sublet individually). +Inexpensive rent. Close to campus (1512 Van Vranken). Call 386-4481 or 386-4482. BMW 1978 528 i Excellent condition well maintained, runs great. 4- speed. 4-door, power windows, locks, steering and brakes, AC, alloy wheels, new Stahl he.ader and Bilstein shocks. New Alpine AM-FM cassette. 75,000 miles. Asking $11,500. 399·2725. PEANUTS@ by Charles M. Schulz. WATOHNG I{OUR BLANKET . TUMBLING Ar<.OlJND IN THE DfZ'i'ER IS SCAR'< ... ' WI4AT IF IT NEVER COMES OUT? WHAT IF IT'S DE5TR01'ED? I 5HOULDN 1 T BE WATCHING .. IT'S NOT Sl.IIIABLE VIEWING FOR CHILDil.EN .. DAMN. fuvr year~ ~0 $b0i)OO ~0 1~ tftf(b to ... f:IJit/6 To·· RoDmmate needed ·f()i next year - male or female. :J. bdrm. apartment {)n Seward ~be.apbut clean and spacious. Call x41~7. Hiring Tod~y! Top Pay!' \'fork . at Home. No experience . needed. Write C()ttage Industries, 1407¥2 JEnkins, Norman,. Oklahoma 730E9'. · Great loft for sale! 4'.:xB' fine plywood top on a frame of .lJ'S''- tall 4-by-4 cedar legs and~. by-6 boards. Matching 26'\ llr ~'6\ · counter fits perfectly un- . derneath. Great for Y<>lli' sir1gle bedroom or apartment. David, 393~5137. Film C!munittee J)resents: 5-29, Camp Union Ollltd()or Movies, Warner Bros. ~arto()ns, Repo Man and Rocky llllrror. 5-31, Camp Union's F'e~tlii\e SS016, 7, 9, 11. 6-5-7, Little Shop of Ilorr9rs, 7, 9, 11. Essene a film about daily life in a Benedictine monaster:y and the resolution of conflict bet- . ween pers.;mal needs and the institutional and org!lni:t!:ational priorities of the CODlDlllllity. Free and open. to thE !>'Ublic, Monday, June 1st at 7 Jl.lll; in SS016. ANSW-ER TO L.ASl ISS0£'5 PUZZLE • ·-

I: '\ CONCORDIENSIS, May 28, 1987 Page 19 The U·n>i·on ~College Outing Club is Sp:onso.ring 2 Tri.ps -sunday, May 31- · .. A ,canoe trip to the Sacandaga .River and Lake . . Meet at Wesit Kitchen (North End) 7 a.m. -Tu:esday \1.2:30 June 2- Wed., June 3 6:00p.m. - Av_aTanche Pass Overnight Everybody .is Welcome u:eeti·ngs 'Every Monday - 7:30 p .. m. Fox l.ou.nge Any q:uestions: Call Jeff 372-3863 or Molly 372- 9309. Whether you mderpizza, .subs, soda, snacks; popcorn, or anything else from the Rock 'n Roll Pizza PL1b, you're not :CJniy getting better prices than off-campus pizzerias, you're supporting student workers as well. Delivery is free, on or off-campus, from 1:30 p.m. until · 12.~00 a.m., 1:30 p.m . .untif f :3() a.m. on Friday and Saturday, throughout the school year. Keep in mind that :the mon63y generated by the Pizza Pub returns back and is forwarded towards student interests a11d Union College So please wisit us at 1st floor West College or call fnrdelivery. Our menu is as 1ollows: 8-cut Pizza- $5.t00 6-cut Pizza - $4.00 slices - sti !I on lyr • 80!! FuH.Sub- $2.75:; Half Sub- $1.75 (ham, turkey or roast be~f) Popcorn - .50; S()da - .50 Cookie - .50; Drake'-$ cakes - .50 Juice - .60; Freihoffer'sand more coming soc n. (Minimum $'!5:0c> order(or s:..cutpiua)for delivery, toppings subjectto ava::ilabfility. Toppings lnclt~<!e: . Pepperoni, mushrqoms, peppers, .. art1ons, olives, extra cheese, sausage, fJro~oli. Pizza -- Tfle Way You Like It! - Call .us at 370-6060 Senior Week June 10-12 Wednesday, June 10 Disorientation at the Girting Center from 4 p.m.-8 p.m. Food and beverages will be provided. Seniors only · van transporation only. NO CARS. Thursday, June 11 frip to Great Escape Underclassmen welcome - $15.30 includes admissio11 and BBQ. Tickets on sale in Mrs. Marra's Office. BBQ from 12 noon- 3 p.m. ?arty _at Nightshift 10 p.m.-2 a.m. Free munchies and cash bar. All are welcome- proper ID required. Friday, June 12 \·Bring Back the Skellar\ 9 p.m.-12 Proper ID required, all are welcome. Further information will be in the mail. Help Needed at Disorientation 880. Those interested call x4080 and 4078 as soon as possible. NEED 'HOUSING? . Looking for an ~ltemative to campus living? Want housing costs back after graduation? Consider purchaising a · condominium in lllUtlOI' hotncs Schenectady's STOCKADE '*Beautiful new units '*Fully applia,nced kitchens '*Wasb.er and dryer included in each unit '*IJuild equity and cash in on the possible ~ppreciation in 3-4 years '*.$1J~ ;900 ;, $94;900. 'For additic11al information contact Carol Marcella 372-1745 or 374·4272 (!rnntnri)·itnsis SPORTS AI Unser ~r ., who less than two weeks ago did. not even have a cat to ,race in, won the lndianapoli.s '500 this past Sunday. In cioing os be became only the sec€lnd person ever to win the race four times. This year's Indy, which is the most prestigious event in the sport, was especially intrig.uing. Unser, who had no car to drive prior to a vr~ek or so ago, had been seen riding his bike throughthegarage area looking for someone to hire him. Luck was on his side, though, as Roger pens~e's driver, Ongais, was injured in a crash during practice. As a result, Penske hired Under. · As for tile race itself, the early leader was Mario Andretti. Andretti'was trying to overcome a jinx that had resulted in his finishing the race · only twice since 1969. He led for 170 of the 21)() laps and with the exception CDf one other driver, Guerrero, who shadowed him the whole w·ay, he had lapped every other car and seemed as if he had thillgs in total control. ·vet, as his luck would have it, Andretti's C!ar seemed to die coming aroWld the final turn of the 180th lap. From h.ere, Guerrero t<Jok the lead. He, too, endured proglems. After stopping f()r a pit stop. Guerrero stalled his c:ar as it was being loweredfromthejack. This cost him ahnost a minute of. time and most definitely the race as he lost by only five seconds. From this p<Jint Unser took the lead and never looked back. For those of yoll who watched it live on TV, y()U saw what an emotional race it was for the whole Unset· family. One of the Unser brot:llers was in the hosptial with a broken leg, the other was the announcer for ABC televiston and Al Unser Jr. was driving in the race. Althougl! only ten cars finished the race out of a field of thirty-three, there were no serious crashes or injured N-OT IN TH·E BOX SCQ:R'E Mark Zimmerman drivers. However, for the first time since 1960, a spectator 'Has killed while watching the race from the grandstand. I tseems that a tire came off the car of Tony Bettenhause and was then hit by Guerrero's car. This shot the tire up into the crowd where it hit a spectator in the head. He died later at the hospital. The sport of racing is on the verge of some major changes in its structure. Over the past few weeks, there was an astronomical amount of ac- cidents in the time trails for the Indy as well as in other races. Recently, there has been a great deal of talk concerning ways to lower the chance of accidents. Speeds are in- creasing every year and more and as a result more injuries are occurring. I'm not in favor of accidents or deaths, but I think that it would be im- possible to try and lower the spped of the cars without hampering the·sport. The object of every rase is to win it. When these drivers enter the sport of auto racing they know the risks they take and are aware of the accidents that can happen. Trying to eliminate all ac~ cidents by lowering the power of the cars would be like changing the entire sport around. However, I do agree that the spectators need to be protected better from flying debris that goes .up into the crowd as happened this past weekend. We'll have to wait and see what the officials decide to do in both cases, but if the sport is to remain a quality event, the spped cannot be dramatically changed. As for this year's Indy, it was somewhat of a Cinderella story for Al Unser Sr. He went from having no car, no crew, and no chance to taking home his fourth fictory in his 22nd ap- pearance. This is a truly an accomplishment that should be recognize.d as one of the better sports stories of the year. ®~ 1}~/J THE BEGINNING OF THE BEST

Page 20 CONCORDIENSJS, May 28~ 1981 May 28, 1987 The Book of Ufe By ANDREW MILLER The Mac :Is Back . . . and: Better Than :Ever .. Old memoriesnever die. They may fade and become harder to t·emember but they are always there ... \I was here when be hit the last one'~ said a portly old man standing outside the special events locker room. \The last one\ he was referring to was Ted Williams last home rllll in his last at•bat of his glorious baseball career. The old man stood clutching two small books. His eyes were big and bright and his left foot was at a non-stop tapping pace. He was part of the crowd. The crowd was comprised of eight ~;>r nine men ofroughly the same age all clenching their small books. These were the books of a lifetime, a lifetime of baseball memories. \Here's Lou Gehrig, caught him walking out of a restaurant in Philly. I waited tw-o hours in the rain till he carne out. I looked pretty pathetic all wet and all. He collldn 't refuse me,\ my new friend informed me, The man's booklet was jammed with the names that made the game great the names from the heyday of pro-ball. stages throughout the U.S. And with their appearance brought our circle of friends,. the autograph-seeking generation of yesteryear. By CHRISTOPHER HINCKLEY John McEnroe, who up until two years ago was one of the top tennis players in the world, is currently in the middle of some familiar controversy con- cerning his chivalrous court etiquette. Last Sunday, in Dusselldorf, Germany, during the finals of the World Team Cup· McEnroe walked off the court in the third set· of his match with Misolav Mecir. His exit seemed to be prompted by a run-in with the chair wnpire, but later Mac :was quoted as saying, \I thought I had simply retired from the match.\ As a result of this action McEnroe is required to pay a $4;500 fine which puts his total for the year at $9;000. He also awaits a more important decision that could suspend him from tournament tennis for one year. The real Mac is obviously back but what is going .to happen if this year~long suspension goes through? Will the game of tennis suffer without the SuperBrat? It seems as though when the Mac was onhis leave of absence from the ·circuit, the MIPTC { M en ' s In t ern at ion a 1 Professional Tennis CowlCil) decided that they weren't going to take any m~;>re of the Mac's shenanigans when he got back. If that's the case, then shame on the MIPTC because without the Mac, pro tennis would have been a snoozer for the last six years. For i:ll.e last year :While the M1;1c was at home bemg a responsible fatber. the game of tennis sl,lffe;re!l. The qualitY of tennis may n~t have changed butthe excitement involved did. In professiomal sports these days, the faillE! are looking more and mor~C towards tile sideshows invrolved in sports. In basketball rand hockey tile fighting an.d .s-cuffles are sometimes In()re talked about than the fan~;y goals and snots. Fights, rivalries and une:x- pectedout.blll\sts are those extra elements !th.c~t seem to get people out t«l the events and keep them CJJJ the edge of their seats. In last y~r of tennis, you saw the li~es ()f the \Wunderkid\ Boris B;ec~er and IIis acrobatics. liou, as usual, saw the quiet ami boring Ivan Lendl cream opp·onents with his overpowerbt~ game but Becker wasn't consistent enough to .keep our ~:~ttention and Lendl frequently- !Choked. Although players 1ikethis probably made the job of tile (ieople on MIPTC easy, the gamE of tennis lost its piza~z. A playe1· who could keep people guessii.n.g with his style of play, anti-<!S, and reactions, could ex:cite fans and place tennis a steiJ above the normal head-swinging rallies of the last year. The plarer l speak of and nominate as the most exciting player of tl!e last decade is none other than. the SuperBrat himself, J()h:n McEnroe. In .top form, the Mac was ~stoppable. He sent ~he great BJorn Borg packmg for retirement -after a few years of back and forth :irtat'l3}les that caught the . attention of the entire world. SUl'\e be's got a bad temper but none of us is perfect. and who are we to judge. Who could forget the. overheads Mac would deliver on the extended microphones that were st.uck in his face as he would approach the wnpire's chair to dtsc_uss politics over tea and crumpets. Wilen some famous antics, induding Mac's famous, ''You a:teall the Pits,'' quote directed .at <111 audience· that is .often frequented by the . British royalty. Pe>ssibly, Mac's most famous shot in his career was the one he delivered to Thomas Smid when the called the Czech a !$$&+&!Commie. [n Mac's comel>ack attempt of the last year be has clearly been frustrated, Losing in qualifyers and early rounds of tournaments is a sme sign of this. If the Mac can do it, make a return to his past status in the tennis wgrld, it woul:d mean new life in today's pto tennis. However, the Mac is like the old rubbercanetrick to the tight old farts tunningtenn~today. He is .unpredictable and is guilty of adding too :much :life to a sport tnat despe@tely 11ee({s. it. IfthepeopleoftlleMIPTC are successful in ~l!~pending John MacEnroe for one year, then t:tiey are doing themselves and the game of termis a great disservice. Page by page the names of Ruth, Mantle, Ford, McCovey, and Aaron leaped out and grabbed the eye's attention. \You must have justabout all of the greats in there,\ I naively asked. \You can ne.ver have'm all son, you should know that! That's why I'm here,'' my new friend replied. And that is why the other men were here. In a remote corner of historic Fenway Park. this inner circle of starangers waited with bated breath for the emergence of their childhood heroes. A man walked out of a side door near the locker room wearing a button-down shirt and plain brown pants. He was holdiilg an athletic bag and appeared to me to be just another Bosox fan waiting for the start of the Red Sox game. To om inner circle of friends this was a magic moment, the opportllllity to meet a legend of their ewn time. The man oohind the button-down shirt was the once skinny, frecklefaced kid whobe fastball at one time had the bite of a Doberman. His name was Bob Feller, Cleveland's fireballing hero. The men crowded around their idol waiting and hoping he wculdtake the time to sign their books. Mr. Feller obliged all Qf the gentlemen, taking time to listen to each man's piece of Feller nostalgia that they were personally on hand to witness. As he finished his last signature, he picked up hiS bag and headed down the cmwded walkway to the cries of, \thank you, Mr. Feller.\ He stepped away from his crowd of admirers and stepped into the 80's, into a land of anonymity. As he walked off into the distance I noticed his bag. The big red, white and blue athletic bag was lettered with the name Bob Feller on the back, an 80's footnote to a generations hero. ESPN's Master of Moniker The occasion was the Equitable OldGTimers Game, honoring baseball's lege~ds. Williams, Doerr, Feller, T1ant, Fidgrich, the new and the old of baseball's golden memories all showed up to br-ing back the magic they once performed on By ANDREW MILLER ESPN, the late night sport jllllkies' daily fix, has a new feature attraction. No, it's not women's wrestling or mid- western roller-derby. It's not even a what. ESPN's latest reason to stay tuned after Letterman is Chris \Ethel Concordiensis and WRUC Benefit Softball Game By DAVID GULLIVER Kicking off the Camp Union weekend, Concordiensis and WRUG wili again square off on the softball diamond to benefit Big Brothers-Big Sisters of Schenectady. Mayor Karen Johnson will throw out the first pitch of the game, which will begin at 4:00 p.m. on Library F;eld. Several local businesses have ' pledged either money or goo~s to Big Brothers-Big Sisters m retmn for advertising in the paper and on WRUC. They are: Goldstock's Sporting GtJods, Homestyle Pizza, Baskins- Hobbins Ice Cream, Gra11barts and Sons Jewelers, luigi's Restaurant, Cranberry Bog Restaurant, and Eileen and Stephanie's Bakery, and the Open Door bookstore. The money raised from these donations currently totals nearly $300. In addition, the Concordiensis and WRUC staffs are selling \predict the score\ raffle tickets until Friday, with lunch List of Sponsors ofrtwo at the Cranberry Bog as the prize. Spectators at the game will be able to sample food donated by various sponsors as well. Most importantly,, spectators will witness softball played at its highest level, by some of the most extraordinary athletes in the Northeast. Pay close at· tention to \Slugging\ Lee Ann Schmidt and Chris . \Spike\ Hinckley at shortstop leading Concordy against the WRUC Compact Disc- Heads. Last year, the disc-heads won, 18-4. Goldstock's Sporting Goods Baskin-Robbins Ice Cream Home Style Pizza Cranberry Bog Restaurant Luigi's Restaurant Graubart and Sons Jewelers Eileen and Stephanie's Bakery· Open Door Bookstore Merman\ Berman, baseball'S nickname llla.dman. The quid-witted Berman has boosted thE vatings on ESPN' s Sports Center and brought life to the gr-a\Veyard shift, 2:30 a.m., sports update with bis relentless dtack of nickname nonsense. 11le monickers come in all shaP'eS md sizes and are anything b;ntpredictable. In one broadcast, Berman dubbed the Astro's Jose Cruz as Jose \can you see\ 0:-llZ. The sports up- date featured Jose \Won't you take me oli a sea\ Cruz, and the nightly wr-apup coined the Houston outfielder as Jose \and the pussyeats\ Cruz. ObviousLy t.he fans can't get . enough of Ruman's rapid fire tongue. Blct -w:hat do the players make of it 7 \The players have been great,' ' :Berman said. ''At the All-Sta!f ~ame last year they were asking;; for my autograph. Hey, they'!l'e baseball. fan~, too.'' Berman's office 1s 1iterally flCJ(J)tled with nickname suggestion.s fro:rn viewers and players alLkte. George Brett and Steve Sax ll!Dn.tinupuSly come up to him \ii\'iih nicknames for fellow maj or-league player~. To BeC\I'Ilan baseball 1s .sacred. liE would not heal' of making lllp nicknames for athletes Ln other sports. \Nicknames are a part .of baseball's llBst - The Babe, Joltin' J«>e and so forth,'' Berman said. \Besides I've got to givetbi::ttlting a rest. I can't do it 12 m!lnlUls of the year;\ Here is a llist. of some Berman classics: Doyle BrS!Ld:Y Alexander Bill Toasted Ahnon Joaquin Dog Andujar . Wally Taklmr Care of Busmess Backman Mark Beetle Bailey Scott Up and Down the Ban- nister Billy Bubble Batlle George Taco Bell Bruce Eggs Benedict Bert Be Hom¢ Blyleven Wade Granberry Bo:ggs Hubie Babbling ~ro()kS John USDA Butdler Rick Summer Camp Tom Cotton Candiotti. Ron Bofi'f in the US Cey Dave Vodka Collins Pat OK Corrales Chuck Welcome Back Cotter Henry Ava Cott£1 Bill Hello Dawley Jeff Dedmon Don't Wear Plaid Jim Two Silhouettes on Deshaies Rich 280Z Dots()n LaMarr Where :i:>oes It Hoyt Glenn Mother li11bbard Tom Ex Hurne Bob The Gar Please James Ron Ma and P!l Kettle Jeff Lahti Da Vance Common La:w Chet Bitter Lemon Dave Canta IAlpes Rick Innocent Lysander Oddibe Young Agaill McDowell Darryl Motley Crew Dave Parallel Parlcer Tony Jala Pena Eric Ker -Plunk Joe Actual Retail Pdce Kirby Union Gap Puckett Jaime Men at Quirk Tim Furple Raines Johnny Manta Ray Vern Golden Ruhle Billy Free Sample Butch Oil and Wynegar (TheS~day Observer~J)ispatch) · May 24 1 1987

