CXVII, No. 7 The remains of the sneaker and the microwave that burned it :J: t:: ~ {/) 1877 Y9rk Graduate Studies Explains Rationale Behind Union's Advertising t3 · ByDEBRAB.BONIG ads on Union's graduate, part- ~ . time undergraduate, non- ffi \When your degree says credit, and special programs. ·~ ·. Union, it's not met with in- Dean Krejci noted that ad- co. difference. People are more apt · vertisements for Unio'ns .(2 · to_ be impressed.\ Ifthatsounds ~ \College Experience'' for high · ~ Uke a biased statement, it is, ; school seniors have appeared in because these words appear in · the New York Times and advertisements which promote · Roll.iiig Stone magazine. In Union's Graduate and Con- ·: addition, Union often plugs tinuing Studies program. • special engineering seminars Fire in Microwave Fails to T'rigge-r Alarm Although Union's Graduate · on a worldwide level. School has advertised for years, . Dean Krejci explained that many undergraduate students : except for the campaign on the By R. REEU WHIDDEN . sneaker were confiscated and first became aware .of the · full-time MBA program, the ads News Editor take·n up to the Campus publicity when Spm1s · are necessary to draw A sneaker was placed ill a Operations Building. lllustrated ran an ad on Union's . prospective.students away from ml ·crowave and began to burn There are two issues here. MBA Program last year. Ac- · local competition. The push for -· f h di g to Joan KreJ'ci' · local · students exists becanse last Friday night at ~p- The first iS the act that t ere · cor n · , proximately 2: 30 a.m.. t'he was a microwave at all in the Associate Dean of Graduate the graduate population con- microwave was :in the lounge at lounge . .Apparently, it was put and Continuing Studies, Union . sists primarily of commuters. the. west end of the second fl(Jor there because room inspections · has indulged in maga2:ine, Krejci stated, \In this kind ()f · · - t :1.· 1 Th d · ne·wsp\'per radio an·d rec· entlv · \\\a:rket one. has to advertise, or (JfThRiec:eowndas~~eo~ered when ;~~in;~f~tu~:n~ecaug:~ah television ~dverti~ing prfmarily ;fue is left out.\ d ·t ·t tt ct people from the Unlike the und_ergradtulte students at the opposite end. of a microwave in a :Ol'illl ory o a · ra · the hall smelled the smoke freltn room will be fined $100~ They Capital District to its program. institution which attracts the burning· shoe. She Ua are illegal to have in dormitory The Times Union, the students through recruitment, b t 1 S henectady Gazette and the gra. duate school finds that it Hwniston was on her way do--wn rooms ecause, no on y are · c . . , the hall to investigate when she they a fire hazard but the waves Metroiand are just a few of the mu'!lt make use of the media. was met by Kristen Nelson lind _ ..:S:.:e:.:e:.....::A:.:l::::A::..R:.:;M::::,~·!:.p:..... -=2~----· _lo_ca_l_n_e_w....::sp;...a.,:..p_er ...... s_t_ha_t_o_ft_e_n_run ___ s_e_e_A __ D_s_,_P_·_2 ----- Shelly Pino. They, too, '\Vere . curious wllen they smened the · smoke on their way down frCJm . the fourth floor. The closer tqey came to the lounge, the thicker the smoke became. The·dool\ to the lounge was closed; up.on , opening the door the smolte \was like a thick fog\ ~c­ cording to Humiston. Immediately the studemts opened the Windows to ventil~te the room and the hallway. Tbey then went to the microwa-ve, opened it, and proceeded to take the flaming Tretorn Olll· Handling it with crepe pap.er, which ignited instantaneously, they threw the sneaker out the window. The resident advisor on the floor, Lisa Clark; ·was woken up by the students. She diScovered that no fire alarms of any ·kind were soundEd. · ,Around 3:15 a.m., when the security escort; Officer Jenk;ins arrived to take Nelson and Fino llome to Delta Gamma, he was informed ·Of the incident. Lat.-tr, the microwave and the By SANDRA ROTH While the stock market fell 50~!.32 points, or 22.62%, Mon- day, October 19, Union College's own Investment Club 'saved itself about $12,()()0 by pulling out from Wall Street the previous Friday. The Investment Club is comprised of faculty and students. Formed in September of 1986, the club began with $100,000 donated from an alumnus. Its purpose is to allow students to gain actual ex- perience as portfolio managers by investing in . the stock market.Currently the club has $HI6,000. This profit has been reinvested in cash or securities, Tne account just grows in values. As member Patrick Albert states, . the club is a \teaching tool\ and should be treated like a class. Your homework is checking .on the state ofthe stocks each.day, The faculty advisors are Professors Peter Prosper; E. · Dwight · Phaup, and Bradley Lewis. They noiminate stude1.1ts to take part in the club. Presently, there are ten ac~ve members. Three of these students are appointed to oversee the activities as directors. They are: Albert, Devin Wenig, and Robert Koch. Within the clUb,. there are divisions of specialization in- cluding money, and .growth income. The Investment Club sold $60,000 in stocks Friday, Oc- tober 16. The fonowing Monday, the market collapsed. The students' decision to sell is owed to luck and the comparison ·Of stock ·prices. The members found their stocks in the port- folio were overpriced from last year. This move saved them from losing an estimated $12,000. The club is now starting \(The) Investment Club saved itself about $12,0.00 by pulling out from Wall Street the previous Friday.\ anew. Over the next few days they will buy 200 shares of a natural gas utility. They also possess five bonds from Oxidental Petrolewn. The ~ . \ remaining money is in liqnid aash: · Seniors form the majority .of the club, but the club feels it would be advantageous to have ··more juniors join. Besides gaining experience to carry into the se.nior year, juniors can · oversee the fWlds in the swn- mer. Limits could be placed on stocks so if prices fall to a specific level, the stock would be sold. In order to become a member, you must take Economics 12, 34, and 36 as well as other economics courses a11d financial accounting. Those interested must complete an . application and essay. The . Inves~ent Cli.tb . provides actual experience with the stock market. For further information about this prestigious activity, inquire within the Economics Depart~ ment. Photo of th~ Week November 5, 1987 Board to Le·cture at University of Paris By JON.ATHAN COHN Joseph Board JR., the Robert Patterson Professor of · Government at Union, is spending an interesting term in Paris. Board, a Union professor since 1973, left recently for the University of Paris to par- ticipate in a graduate seminar on \Power Authority and Conflict.\ Board e:xpects good deal of i11terest fr~»m European students on how the legal amd political J)\rucesses in the (U.S.) work together. The pw·pose of the seminar will be to examine closely the way the U.S. C<Jnstitution wol\ks in light of . its bicentennial celebration. Oul.\ own ultimate legal document will be com~ pared with otller legal systems, such as those of England and France. Board started as a student of government at the University of Indiana and continued on to study law at Oxford University. His achievements include a Rhodes scholarship and a Fulbright fellowship and finally, doctoral degrees fr()m the University of Indiana. . With this kind of background, Board is a highly . qualified member of the Union faculty for this honor. Board said he ex- pects a good deal of interest from the European students on h_gw the legal .and political processes in the United States work together. \There is no other country where judges have such an impact as they do here,\ Board said in a recent Schenectady Gazette interview. With the defeat of the B()rk nomination andthe new Reagan nominee for the Supreme Court in the current news, the actual workings ()f tile U. S. Con- stitution caa be seen vividly. The Bork nommation brought into the publi(! eye the role of the supreme (!!»urls With social issues such as desegregation and abortion~ ''Judges do make public policy here,\ Board said. The nomination and subsequent hearings are a good example of how legal md political issu.es can run togetller in this countr\y. Board, a netive of Princeton, Indiana, speaks Freneh, Swedish, Spanish and \can get by\ in several other languages. The professor has been gtve11 a great opportunity to combine scholarly work with world travel. ·

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, November 5, 1987 Advertisement Meant to Attract Graduate Students from Capital District When your degree says Union, it's notmet with indifference. .People are more apt to be impressed. To ask how you kept up : with the war!<. Or wonder when you can·.rart. : That'sbecause, for nearly ZOO years, Union has earned a · · reputation for turning out the best-in computer. science, engmeering. busmess, science and humanities Union's graduate and part-time undergr·aduare degrees. Instead of Indifference. a difference. Rq:,striltion.bv mail or in·perc.nn Au~:u.'5t 17 ·Sc:ptcmht't\ 15. Srceiil.l ·E\\rn1nc:s ~11h Advnors: W~ds. & Thurs., Sc:rt. 9 &. 10, 61lS • 8:30 Pfll· For more information, call 370·62-SS. . T--~---~---~--~----------~ D' Please .send me a free catalog. II I I I I I \'m<· :( : I I I -- I \\'\c'\------s.-= .. =-,. ---,::z,P:--- I J..t:\,:To G1adua1e &.ConunuU'IB Studtes I L'nuln Ave Schenec1ady, NY lZJ08 T. -~-;'ffi.l·~~ 'Ydk~ I I I I I I I I, I I I C r:r.tlu:ltC'. (Jlft•lime undcrJ!~adu:r.tc and ntJ;'I·Crtdit J'lrOJI:rarru For the continuing pursuit of excellence. Continued from page 1 Director of Public Relations Peter Blankman said, \All colleges with graduate and continuing studies programs have to advertise ... They have to remind 1llan.y p~pple: tpat ]lave been out . of · school for years that · they can . come back.\ colleges for qualified un- dergraduates for its MBA, not the general public. You may get . a high turnout in the short-run . by running ads, but in the long- .. t'un, the ·best.way to: develop a Rrestigious reputation for ~e , . program is to be 'as· ~elective in admissions for graduates as it is for undergraduates.'' An advertising agency manages Union's account so that the information reaches the \right audience,\ according to Dean Krejci, Union's Graduate and Continuing Studies office decides to ad- vertise in \clusters\ of publications based on cir- culation counts and demographics. Dean Krejci indicates that the average Union graduate student is 29lh years -old, and is somebody that typically listens more to radio than reads a newspaper. Despite this effort toappealto the right audience, many un- dergrad~.~ate students that have seen or heard the ads are disturbed by the impUcations of such open publicity. Sophomore Andrew Reiken said, \It affects the way people look at the undergraduate school. They should try to build a reputation that's on par with the rest of the college and the university.\ Sophomore Phil Zaccheo agreed: \The school should be searching prestigious American . ,.- ' '\:.. ~ j . t . . ' ~ - ~ , ~ · Dean · Krejci and Mr. Blankman believe that the logo on the advertisments makes a clear distinction between the undergraduate and graduate prDgrams. She said, \We're careful about the image of the ad. We project the commitment to excellence that Union (as a wh()le) wants to project.\ According to Dean Krejci, Ivy League schools, such as Columbia, Harvard, and ·Yale often advertise special programs in the New York Times on Sundays. For this reason, she maintains that Union is not lowering its caliber. · She also said that the Sports mastrated display was a special, one-time campaign because the magazine· had offered a low rate to advertise on .a regional basis. Magazines often publish more than one version of each issue, consisting of the same articles, but dif- ferent advertisments from regional patrons. Witnesses Fe.el Alarm· Should Have. Been. Set Off By Heavy Smoke Security Tests Sensitivity ·of System Continued from page 1 from one may interrupt a pacemaker's· fllllctiolling. Also, the amount of current a microwave oven draws may be too much for the dortti's wiring to carry. Any()ne working in an area with a microwave, for example maintenance workers an<l housekeeping employees, would be endangered. The second issue is that of the fire a1arnis. · The fact that no alarms went ·dff when there was an actual fire worried some people. According to Victor Carmen, the fire safety officer an<\ Paul Mantica, assistant director of security, the fire was not at a point that would cause any alarms to sound. This is so, partly becawe the fire was contained within the microwave. Eo wever, Carmen stated that he would have \given it five more minutes, not even,\ to become a major problem. Still, witnesses to the incident Nelsmn•s Book Store 173 Jay Stree·t~ Schenectady Open: Monday tl1ru Saturday .11 am-5:30pm Thursday .evenings . 'til9pm · aU agreed that there was so much smoke that tbe alarms in · · the hall shollld. have €Oiie off. Nelson statecl. that~ \'lller~ was no possible way there was not enough smoketo set th.e alarms off.\ \It was enough t() make your eyes tear and YElll really couldn't breath in: the lounge,\ The smo'ke and stench were so intense that other ·students ali the floor woke · up and came ()Ut of their rooms. .commented Humiston. ·The · smoke and stench were so in- tense tllat other. students on the floor woke up and carne out of their rDoms. It was not the case that the system was malfUilctiolling, but security tested the alarms for sensitivity. However, tllis is not such a reassuring incid~nt at a time when false fire alarms are coming left and right. One bas to ask, at what point iS a fire call$e for alarm? In the lounge where this fire occurred there is only a beat-sensitive alarm. 'l'bis alarm needs 135 degrees of heat at the ceillng to activate· it. A smoke detector wolild be 1,1seless in the cooking area because it would be set off too frequently by smoke from food on the stove. Combination smoke and heat detectors have .recently been installed in West, Fox, and DavidSon dorms. The college plans to install Similar detectors in Richmondt North, and South Colleges in the near future. · As of now, Richmond second floor residents are wary of a \bQy who cried wolf,'' situation. Questions are still being asked. And as far as the sneaker and the microwave are concerned, both are destined for another world, SUPPORT GRO.UP FOR STUDENTS WITH DIVORCED OR SEPARATED PARENTS FEEL UKE YOU'RE THE ONLY ONE? TIRED OF BEING THE \ADULT\ FOR YOUR FAMILY? SEEMS LIKE NO ONE KNOWS WHAT Y.'P~'R GOING 1J~RqUG~?. ' If you feell,ike yo1).. could use an opportunity to talk and share support with people dealing with the same issues, come to this first meeting. WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 7:30 PM MOBIL LOUNGE, COLLEGE CENTER (Sponsoreci by the Religious Programs Office) UNION REVIEW OF BOOKS The American pattern of privatizing religion while at the same time allowing it some public functions has proven highly compatible with the. religious plurilism that Ius characterized America from the .colonial period and grown more and more pronounced. If tile primary contribution of religion to society is tlrrough the character and conduct of citi.zenst any religion, latge or small, familiar or ' stran~e, can be of equal value to any othet. The fact the most American religl.ons have been biblical and tllat most, though of course not all, Americans can agree on the term \God\ ·has ·certainly been helpful in dir:n:inshing religious antagonism. But diversity of practice has been seen as legitimate because religion is perceived as a matter of individual ch.oice, with the implicit qualification that the practices themselves accord with public decorum and the adherents abide by the moral standards of the community. (Habits, 225) ? ObJective: Monthly discussion open to the campus cornmunity-~fa.culty~ staff, & students--involving a book s.elected f<>r its visibility and potential interest to the community. Meeting dates are the second Wednesday of e:ach month throughout the academic school year from 1:00 to 2:00 p.m. at the College Center. Next Wednesday Robert N. Bellah, et all., Habits of the Heart: Individualism and Commitment in American Life (1985).0nsale at the Campus Store at a discount for $5.00. · Wednesday November 11, 1987 In the Cabuet College Ce11ter l:OOp.m.

CONCORDIENSIS, November 5, 1987 -Page 3 Bicentennial Committee Selected Prof Jan '-'udwig to Chair Intercollegiate News Sy,EZRASHERMAN President Morris bas named Jan LU.<lwig; .professor of philCJsopily~ to chair a bicen- tennial cCJnunittee, which Will begin in:C!king plans for the celebrati()n of Union's 2ooth Aniliversary in 1995. Also fu,. vited- to participate on the Committee were Tom D' An- drea., Ed Craig, Ruth Anne Eyans, Ellen ·Fladger, Fred Jonas,. Jack Maranville, Dave Peak, R{).bert' Rasmlll3sen; :r~en Relyea, Cln-istie SQrum,. Jim Underwo()d, and Hugh Wilson. AS the bicentennial com- mittee has not met yet, h«>fe:ssor .Ludwig prefaced his departments and how their discipline grew: with the school. · Coincidentally, the engineering department will be celebrating it$ 15oth anniversary also in 1995. Integral' to. the celebration is a sense of history. Planners of the bicentennial celebration are expected to · incorporate traditions from the other three 50· year · anniversaries. Professor Ludwig also said that 'Union might want to c~mmision an artist, composer, or sculptor to· do some pieces in k~eping. With the ~tmosphere of the school. Obvious to m.ost is the part a rehabilitated Nott Memorial could play in the celebration.· Pro~essor Ludwig said.that \it would be nice to see the Nott rest!lred by 1995, but it is not the responsibility of the Cottunittee to have it restored.'' Responsiblility for aUo.cation of funds does not fall on the Committee and must be resolved bythe people. in charge. of fund:-raising. Vic'e President of F:inance and Administration, John Hauser. Union's ·Value Endowment Decreases However Fare Well Relative to Dow Jones Index By STEVEN COLE ... Keene College Praised for General Education Project 8 Unlon,:NJ· (IP)-Kean College w of New Jersey iS achieving high ru marks for its humanities-based ~· gen. er. al · ed:ucation project ~ originally endowed by the b.. . National Fowdation for the :t Humanities and now an integral a. part of tb.e cw-riculum, reports Paul A. Stellhorn, assistant director of the New Jersey Committee for the Humanities. NEB awarded the college $243,872 ill .the fall of 1984 to cover a pilot project in im- proved . humanities program- ming. In tile fall of 1985 the college received the Governor's Challenge Grant funding of $3.9 million that allowed the college to expand the new curriculwn to all st11dents. 0 · Finally, the celebration is 0 . looked- upon as a way to draw . :x: national attention. to the school, ·~ Ludwig said that we \want to u:: maximize the importance (of ' niillio~ the per(!entage·losfl was . , 11 percent while the Dow Jones ' index dropped about 28 p~cent . ·' In his interview Hauser dd not . seem distraught, In faci:, he : · confidently stated, \It's gonna As the stock market plum- meted last month, so too did the value of ·union's endowment. Although a lot ·Of money was lost, Union .fared rather well relative to the Dow Jones index:; John Hauser, vic~president of .finance and:· administration, attributes ··this to the nature of the endowment portfolio. Such ' · come back,\ wbile ex()laining the long-range investment strategy relative to ty-pical market cycles. Such a market cycle usually lasts for ab()Ut NEH fun<ling and Challenge Grant dollars have un- derwrittenthedevelopment of a \core\ of r.equired courses and the selectiCJII of a variety of electives in various disciplines by a!l Jllators. . . . Kent State Memorial Grcup Warned Professor Jan Ludwig remarks by saying that his suggestrons have not been voi~Ced tCl tlle cottunittee and thWI are n()t official. Basically, \the ll;ey in a celebration of this sort is to d() it really well with some gpod: taste and distinc- tion.'' \Good taste and distineti()n\ are not components of. a celebration prepared in haste, and explain why the planning mllSt begin eight years before tbe fact. Of immediate concern Is Wring a historian who specializes in the history of American education to write on Union,.s growth and develoP'\ ment. [n. a narrower sense, professors from each depart- ment may want to research the history of their own respective the bicentennial) . as it only ocurs once.\ Taking this thought one step further, Vice President of Academic Affairs Tom D' .Andrea said he would like · to see us \p1 on an educational event of national reach.\ D'Andrea stresses the need to pat Uruon's.anniversary · in the context of world events; · how Union has .and wili be in- . fluenced by national. concerns and how it canmake an impact,· · especiallY on education. · On a final note,· Professor · Ludwig said that \students are welcome to make any suggestions on how we might celebrate the anniversary.\ especially as the big year draws . near. To the class of '95, whoever you are, you have a lot to look forward to. · an in!vestment fund is designed \It's gonna (!Ome back.\ -Vice President Hauser to achieve moderate growth while minimizing the risk of great depreciation in a down- turned market. The depreciation apparently won't seyerely affect. Union's ac- tivities. · · · . As of June 30, 1987, according to Hauser;. the endowment was worth approximately $90 million. He estimated its current value to be in the neigh- borhood of only $80 million. Although it is a difference of $10 The Typing Center 1409 Curry Road . ·Resumes- Papers- Theses- Gover Letters- Personalized Stationery GRADUATE STUDIES· IN BIOM·EDICAL RESEARCH E3asic Medical Science Department Active Research Programs Seeking Qualified Applicants' Tu~ion and Stipend Support Available For Further hl1ormation Contact: Graduate Committee Department of Physiology Albany Medical College Albany, N.Y. 12208 (518·445-5651) Call for an appointment • 355-3681 • REASONABLE RATES WINTER TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES Preregistration m~terials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be available~~ the Registrar's Office beginning Friday Oct $(). Students, should review .,the course listing, consult with their advi§eTs, and select the courses they wish. It wo.uld bR acjvisable for students to have additional choices in mind hi CE!Se o11e of ~eif first three choices becomes unavailable. TO PREREGI$TER EVERY STUDENT . W~Ll BE REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVIS~R. SIGN THEIR PREREGISTRAION FORM. IR THEIR ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDENT SHOULD CONSULTWITH THE HEAD OF THEIR ADVISER'S DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permissiort of the depar~ment. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated on the cours-e listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on Wed. Nov 4. Students should sign these lists to indicate. an interest and then should return to the departments on Fri. Nov. 6 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department In order to pick up a card you must have your prer(ffiistration form with you to be stamped by the department You are poermitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A \LI$T\ COURSE WITHOUT SUCH A CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration tor an independent study or research requires completion of a form which is available in the Registrar's Office. It must be signed by the supervi::;ing faculty member an~ his/her chairperson. The date and time for each studenrs appointment is printed on the label affixed to the \Preregistration Course Request Fot.m. • Students may not pr.er~;Jgister prior to their assigned time. Pregregistration will conclude on Fri. :Nov 13. Additional course changes may next be made during the Drop/Add period at the start of the winter term. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed or.~ their ~Preregistration Course Request Form• (this form, filled out AND SIGNED BY 1HEIRADVISER, must be brought to preregistraiton). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire are not closed. if one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their preregistration form. Then, they should see a staff member who will preregister them. Students who do not plan to r$tum to Union forth& winter term, except graduating seniors, must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Studenls. Potential December or March graduates should inform the Office of the RegiStrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the fall or winter terms. three to five years. Using three professional capital management firms Union's strategy includEs both investing in fixed income and equity investments. Ove fifty percent was invested ill fixed income securities. While !Javing little potential for outst1111ding growth these fixed in.come investments gave great stability. Reg~rding tbe equity side, the policy is to n(Jt. have more than five percent C)f the total PQrtf9Uo invested i3l. any one .stock .. The ··ruversiflcation aiso addS· stability as· :well as ' retarding the· growth potential. According th Hauser, t:he past three years have groWIJ about 16-17 percent annually. , Apparently the deprEciation should have little affed: on campus life. Thus, tu.:itions, scholarships, and finan<:ial aid will not be bothered. Sauser stated that it would have essentially no -effect bec!luse of the conservative nature of the administration's budgeting. Seniors Kent, OR (IP )- President · Michael Schwartz recently advj.sedtheMay 4 Task Force to beware of illdividuals seeking to \exploit\ tile group and the memory of the Kent State shootings. 'd'I'here are some who are nothing short of ruthless in th~ir willingness to exploit it (the memCJry) for their own purposes,\ he said \They have some killd of political ax to grind so they come to the campus.'' Schwartz told group members they sholllc! carefully examine the motives. of aU speakers they bring to eampus in order to avoid such exploitation. He said he believes the university has made considerable progress in its effCJrts to make it clear to the publicthat the May 4 memorial is intended to emphasize con- templation and healing, rather than to place the blame on or to praise anr~ne involved in the shootings. Have a grievance - IJSe tf1~ system contact your class representatives: . Thursday, . 11 a.m. 4:45 p.m. 8 p.m. Jennife:.rS cu{[y '!JatJuf Colien Coffeen 5l.£inolfi This Week's ·Events: . - November- 5 Colle~e Center Aud. Ttu:e !Minerva Hour pr&$ents Nora Sayre, reV'iewer, critic, and obs:erver .on \Writing of Memoirs: A Portrait of Edmu.nd Wilson.\' CoUege Center Aud. Ph)'sics and Philalsophy Colloquium vri.th R.P.I. Pr01!esscirs M.J. Zenzen, philosophy, and H:B .. Hollinger, chemiS-try, on \The Arrow of Tine and lrreversl ble Plays leal Process.\ College Center Aud~ SI{Jma XI lecture with Drev Hazelton, Senior engineer for ma1erlals at the lnterm agnetlcs General Co-:j). on ''Supereondu-ctlvity: \A Review of A. Technology In the .Limelight.\ Friday, November 6i • 7, 9, 11 p.m. College Center Aud. F1lm: Children of A Lesser God. Saturday, November 7 . 7, 9, 11 p.m. College Center Aud. Film·: Children of A Les~Jer God, 8 p.m. Meirt:orla! Chapel. Concert by the Pasqulet Trill with guest flutist, Shlgenorl Kudo, In an all-Mozart program. Sui\day, November II 1, 9, 11 p.m. Ce»IIC~ge Center Aud. Film: Children of A leseer God.

'Jhe Hair Studio LLR-160-SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND MORAL · CHOICE: THE DILEMMAS OF THE MODEM WORLD Professrn Peter Heinegg and Bradtey Lewis · The cowse is a new seminar for seniors; the inaugUI!ll· theme is \Th~ Tragedy of the commons: Technol<Jgy, Social Arrangements, and Prospects for Ecologicall)isaste~;C()nsidered\ The colll'se will examine the views of both techriological . · · optimists and technological pessimists (including b()tfu scientists · and those in other fields) concerning the prospects (()r human society, and such current controversies as rain forest d.oestruciton, · acid rain, and population control. Do solutions exi$0 be they technol~gical? Socia~}.poHtical? Economic? Will rn~n end by · destt'()ying the earili? Class time will be .split between discussion . ~of common readings and presentation of inclivi<luaJ projects, · which will require substantial in~ependent work. The i11tent is · that the student wiU eme~;ge with an understanding (Jf both the scientific and technological realities of the modern w0o.rl<l and the moral implicaitons of decisions to use, or not to. us.e, specific components of scientific knowledge and particulart¢h.nologies. Interest:ed juniors should talk with the-instructors. · Biology 138 · Modern Parasit&le>gy. · \ · Para.sitology wiU be offered dui-ing the winter Hair and Tanni~ng Studio term by 'Prof. Twitty Styles on M/WJF 10:15 - 11 :2{) in Bailey, room 205. Laborat~:ries are scheduled for Mondays and Tuesdays, 1:3()-4:30 p.m. The major objective of this course is to study the greatly neglected parasitic dis e.a:ses of manldnd. Th.e biology of specific rea;rasites endemic is the United States and the Third World. Developing countries will be coverecJ as well. Emphasis will focus on epidemiology, plt3'siology, imm11nology, zooPraph:y, path()~enesis, sytnpa.tology, -and m'odern techniqt1es for diagaosis and control of parasitic infecti()ns. C; Un:is.ex. Walk-Ins We·lcome_ 374-0351 JJe.[c.o~e Unlon Students! We wiU fJe open.· 8a.tu~d.a.y and Sund:ay frotn 11:00 am •tt,[ 1 :liD am. Let us rnafu2; youf' w~nli spe.cta.£11 ,If MflNHf\ fiN A.r& you an underclassman with qLJestions about classe~? What courseS dO 1 need~orhea1th prof~on graduata scll()C)Is?, To:assist you, each Friday in the College Center Pub the; officers - of Pre·Health will be available at 12:30 pm. i:~~IH~~i;~ Certainly please come If you are having any problems \'UI1 present ·classes or if youwould just like to know more abollt the Pre-Health Society. By all means bring comments ancl sLJggeslions. 605· Union Street 374-5930 JOINT PHILOSOPHY/PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM Union ca·llege ''Ttte Arrow of Time and Irreversible Physcial Processes\ Presanti ng · · · 'Professor M.J .. ~enzl~·n, J·r. , .. Department o.f Philo$ophy Rensselaer Polytechnic lns1itute '& ' ' Professor H .·B. Hollirige·r Department o1 Cllemistry Rensselaer PolytEchnic Institute Thursday, Novaember 5,1987 4:45P.M .. (Refreshments served at 4:30) College Cent~t Auditorium ... . ';' FRIDAY JoinUs!!! 12:30 PM COLLEGE CENTER PUB YOU GET H:UNGRY FRIDAY EVENINGS, DO·N 1 T YOU ? . -~· • • t-' + WHY SETTLE FOR .A HAMBURGER WHEN YOU CAN HAVE: • Prime Rib •Tenderloin Of .Beef · · · d ,., ·Shrimp Scampi . ·Chicken Cordon Bleu . FOR THE SAME MEAL PUNCH. DUTCHMA'N'S ·N·IGHT -DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT 5:00 & 7:00 PM 19 Meal Plan - 2/Month -- 14 Meal Pl·an - 1/Month 1 0 Meal Plan - 1/Month •.

. CQNCORDIENSJS, Ntnember 5, 191!7 Page 5 FEATURES Big Brothers/Big Sisters ... for Kids' Sake Talk of the Town Co:ncordy recently asked: \Where do you go when you want to escllpe from Union? · photos and interviews J?y Stan K.itzinger By FRANZ LITZ Most children ta.ke them for granted. At .the ag() of nine· or ten,. none of us st()pp~d to think how important ottt parents were to us -untildad went away for tbe weekend a.nd suddenly there was something missing. Depending on how long dad was away,. you lived with half ·the attention, bali the C()ffi'· pariionship, half tllelove. In the past two d.ecades there have been some r-eal changes in the structure of the American family. One out ·Of every two marriages ends in divorce. Teenage pregnancies . have increased, .;:tnd with tbem has come the rise of the siligle parent family. these tWQ· factors add to present a serious problem: there are too many children suffed11g from tbe \missing syndrome.'' It is difficult, for those of us who value their pa~ent~s _sup- port,supportthat's always been there; . to imagine what life wolJ}d have been like with ·Only one parent. Big BrotbersfBig Sisters is an Qrganization dedicated to getting these single•parent children the companionship they want and need. A big brother or big sister provides a child with more than just four hours a week away- from home. A big :tm;>ther /big sister provides a child with a role model and a reliable friend. BB/BS, like all volunteer organizations, can only be successful .if people volunteer. Each ye~r, according to case worker Donna Frigano, Union students, numberillg between 80-100 account for one-third of aU. Big Brotner-sf»ig SiSters. in Schenectady. While this figure is impressive, there is still a need for volunteers, especially from the male population. Many. boys wait months to a year to be matched with a big Qrother. Miss Frigano is optimistic about the future of BB/BS at Union College. \We look for· ward to Union, because together we could do a lot.'·' Union students who ·par· ticpate bave access to the college BB/BS car. This car ~· available on a reserve basis for periods of four hours. So transportation should not weigh in a student's dedsion to par• tipate. Any student wishing to become a big brother or big sister should call the Schenectady Collilty office at 3744523, and sign up to take part in the November .9th orientation in the Carnegie . auditorium. Any· student who signed up at the. ~activities' elqio in September will automatically b~ contacted by the office. Not. too far from campti$ for some companionship .. Why not makethe call ..• For Kid'sSake Bert and I road trip to . Montreal to do 'BLw J.;bs' in • bars.\ Ashley Edmonds '88 \I don't, Unio11's my life,\ DoDil!l~endorl '89 A Golden Opportunity! The Career Development · Almnni participants varies Center is curr~l!~ly arranging from year to year as do the it's biannual ·Career Ob-· career fields then'i.Selves, but servation Day program. The there are always .more tban progt:am is held: in the fall tenn enough participants to ac- and' in, the spring term of each commodate the students. Many year and consist$ of a stlldent of the students who have signed observing an alumni on and at up for the program in the past the job. The purpose of stlch a · hav.e. been seniors but .all un- prograJ;n is t() enable the derclassmen are · greatly en- . student t6·' 1 ga:ifi· -.lfffits1r~41anw · · comaged~ to 'Participate. What : knowledge . of various. career .better time to gain information .fields which he·or she-migbfn'ot · ·.about car-eer·fields,of possible otherwise have been able to interest? observe. Not only is the student In order to. participate, the afforded an inside look at a .student must visit the Career certain career field, but he is Development Center on put into direct C()ntact with a November 11th or 12th in order person who, ill addition to being to see what types of career a professional :iii the chosen fields. are represented in the field, has graduated from Union desired area and sign up for the College. An alUlll can more ones which interest him. The easily relate to, understand, time, length, aDd day of the and answer the questions a u.c. . _visi~ vary from alum to alum. student might have. The student also has input, for The program scheduled for once it is decided on a first the fall term involves alumni come fii.-~t serv_e basis which from the New York City and student will visit which alum, Boston areas and n<!eurs during the student is given the name, December break~ whereas the address and pchone number and program in the spring foolll!es is .responsible for initial con- on the Capital District. 'The fall tact. It is then that ·the two prograiil in 1985 had 26 student particpants decide . on the visits, the program more than details of the·Observation Day. 'doubled last year with a tDtal of Career Observation Days are 60, this year we h()pe even more a golden opporturrlty to in- students choose to take ad- vestigate fut\Jte options. After vantage of this. inval;uable eoUege, has ended and an in- opportunity. 'I'he number of dividual is still unclear of a This Thanksgiving, many of Schenectady's poor - will go hungry. · · You can help share the bounty o.f our natio'n ~ Donate either canned or dry food to the J.S:U~-Schenectady Inner City Food Drive • at the J.S.U. Reception Box by the . . .lnforma1ion Booth in the College Ceqter. . ,. Because· Leisure Rules I .. • !I' . . Bring ·aut your best in the Bathrobe Brunch at West. Be there . Saturday, November 7th at 12:30 (sbap on a rope~ teddy bears, etc. are optional.) career path the eh.ailces .of their spending on the job time with a concerned professional are slim. .Stop by the Career Development Center, inquiries \I take road trips to other \To Boston to see friends and . are encoW'aged, and take ad- colleges to visit my boyfriend, I do stuff there you can't do here, vantage ofth,is programforyou go to Plattsburh, party and do like going to thE Charles River will never be afforded such a no work all weekend!\ and the bars.\ effortless opporttlnity again. .~~=:;;=;~==~Jud;;y;B;ruhn:;;;;';89;:;;;;;;;;C;raig;;;W;o;rtman;;;;;';~~ Phone Home! Free Phone Call Anywhere! ·Come to the Fall Student Phonathon, Sunday, November a and Monday, November 9, for fun, prizes and a free call anywhere. Time: 5:36 • .9:30 .p.m. Place: Hale House Dining Room CALL 6142 TO SIGN UP! • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • i Write fior i • • i · ~eatures! i • • • • • • •• • • • • • : Ca([ Catlig at 43 71, : • • • • : :M.a.rjorie at 69G1 or : • • • n.a .f. • : ·.vvenuy at 3lf1-9089 : . .. • • ~·•••••••••••••••••••a••••• THE TYr!NG M.OM • THESES • DISSERTATIONS • MANUSCRIPTS • RI;SUMES • COVER LETTERS I REPORTS PROMPT SERVICE & REASONABLE RATES 377.a300

Pa~ 6 CONCORDIENSIS, November 5, 1987 .. 'Oi'i Alternatives .to Law School . · There's always something cooking at Kosher K~chen Beyond the Oo.or By SUE SHAFFER. In West, there is a door. This door, seen by all, is noticed by few. Beyond the door, is a room seen by even less than those who have noticed the door. Some notice the door and pay no mind to it, others notic-e the door and wonder what li.es in- side it. Those of us who have been beyond the door, realize that there lies more than just a room. Its purpose i1l fun- damental, but the reasons that people meet there are all in· dividually unique. Few realize the importance of what goes on in that room. Beyond the door which is seen by all and noticed by few lies Kosher Kitchen. This kitchen's main pllfpose is to provide meals which follow dietary restrictions place(iupon those who follow the laws of their culture. For those who keep kosher, it is a dedsion made by them, and im:portant for them to ·uphold. Therefore, they have an opportunity to eat in the Kosher Kitchell. The kitchen, which is otganired by Andy Kaplan, provides more than just meals. It pro-vides a family-type . atmosphere · in which everyone helps with the m~al'~ pp~paratio~ -~-n~ -~~t~up~ It provides a relaXlllg time m which students can eseape from their stressful college arudeties. In this way, it- is .also ap]JeaUng to those who do not keep 'kosher. . Others who may have diets similar to that of k:osher restrictions may also eat in the kitchen. This team four Malaysialls are eating in the kitchen. A new program, which has just been initiated this fall, is the twO' day a week meal plan. This is for the student who does not keep kosher but would like to support the kitchen and enjoys the kitchen's at- mosphere. This plan includes meals on Friday, along with meals on another weekday. Many st11deats participate in tbis piogr.arn for . it .includes Friday night dinners. . These dinners are traditional Sabbath dinners and include a four· course rneal. Following the meal, the Jewish Student Union presents a guest speaker. These dinners are also offered as a pay as you come meal. They start at &:00. One can also pay for entire term ()f friday din- ners at a reduced fee .. Due to past financial problems the kitchen has had to go thro11gh a reorganizing period~ In order for the kitchen to continue to offer its services it needs the support of the stu,dents. With a · newly hired cook, the newly established two day a week plan and the organi~ational skills of Andy Kapla11 the kitch~~. . wi~ .. hopefill:ly have a futUre at Union, :Feel free to stop by, the kitchell is the first door that one · sees ~. (straight · . ahead) upon entering West If you have any intereSt 1n. the kitchen please call Andyat386-4096. By DANA K. SAEWITZ 39,000 new students l>egin law school each year. Of these 39 1 000, how many are dedicated to becoming lawyers, and how many are simply there for lack of a better idea? Many lawyers and legal . educators would agree that the number of young people choosing law by default is too high. According to a recent article entitled \Aimless Associates\ in The American Lawyer magazine, editor Steven Brill points out that ''law school and lawyering have, indeed, become the province n()t necessarily ·Of desperately committed young lawyers but of the country's smartest young people who didn't want to be doctors. but knew they wanted to be something.\ Larry Richard, President of Lawgistics, a consulting firm to t:he legal profession, has devoted his entire career .to helping lawyers who have fallen into the trap desc~ibed above. \Law school in the 70's beaame a repository for people who didn't know what they wanted to do with their lives,\ says Richard. \Law school became tlte liberal arts of graduate ' .school.\ Today, many of these young lawyers come to Richard for career counseling. He · continually encounters lawyers who describe their care.ers with disillusionment. Many are unhappy w1th the constant adversarial nature of their jobs, and feel frustrated because they realize that their initial ideals about justice and helping . people were naive. They feel that their careers have been compromised; they have fallen into roles where all they do is work twelve hour days, research trivial details, write repetitive briefs, and .argue positions they may not truly believe in. How, then, can a young person decide whether or not to pursue a career as a fawyer? For both Editor Brill and Consultant Richard, tbe ideal solutioa is to gain some ex- perience working in a law firm., talking With lawyers, and. learning abo~Jt the law befol'e you make yoar commitment to law school. Brill even suggests that '':maybe law· schQols ought to make sure their applicants really wantto be lawyers bef01;e admitting them--by making each applica,nt first be a paralegal fQr a year.'' A paralegal, as the name implies, is 9ne who assists a. lawyer 1n pel.'fQrming ·his or her job tasks. According to a recent definition issued by the American Bar Association, a paralegal is one who '(per- forms), under ultimate direction amd supervisioD of an attorney, s!}ecificBlly delegated substantive legal work, which work • . . requires a sufficient lmowledge of legal concepts that, absent such assistaat, the attorney would perform the task.' In other words, a paralegal can do anyt!Ung an attorney can do, as long as the attorney is in charge. This definition illustrates the diverse opportunities available to paralegals-()pportunites which are· certain · to provide a valuable educational ex- perience which will help college graduates decide whether or not togo to law school. Philadelphia's Institute for Annual [ R S I N 0 N I G HT Nov. 20th Friday night at West College 9:00pm - 12:00 pm Need responsible volunteers to work as dealers, cashiers, runners, etc. Anyone interested in working one (or more) shifts, please reply to box 1403 as soon as possible. All proceeds for the night will benefit a charitable organization in the local area. It is aptuallylun!:!J ·; • ; ~ ·.-· .. 1.. , - · Any questions call Steffani x4265 Thank You! Sponsored by the Social Alternatives Committee Paralegal Training offers college· graduates a unique \Law School Transition Program\ which encourages them to explore . the legal profession by studying and then working as a paralegal. Cynthia Christopher, Director of_ Ad· missions at The Institute, describes this program en- thusiastically. ··~so many college .graduates rush into law school :becaue the career conveys an .impressive, professional image--hut the reality is th~t many. students are quickly disillusioned because of . unrealistic ex- pectations. We try to· encourage these graduates to slow down-and to educate them- selves-before they choose their life-long career. Students. at The Institute study law and its practical applicatiol). in a folU'-mOnth, . full-time progran:i~we offer specialty training in eight areas of law including International L~w, Administrative and P'!lblic Law, and the law of Employee Benefits. We then assist them in finding a job in a law firm or corporation in ·the .city of their choice. After our' graduates have had an opportunity to explore the legal profession, and if they are committed to the notion of attending law school, they· return to The Institute to meet with our pre-law advisors for counseling and guidance and we provide them with free LSAT independent study preparation m<!_terials. We fiad that our graduates who attend law school after several years ~f paraleg(.ll work .are more successful in Ia.w s~oo! anc:t are more . marketable · upon graduation than those people who entered law schOol directly from college.\ For more information on the Law School Transition Program, call1-800-222-4758 (in PA call (215) 567-4811) or write to The Institute for Paralegal Training, 1926 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103. WILL YOU HAVE ENOUGH MON~Y FOR (lfRISTMAS? . If the answer is questionable, now is the time to do something about it. Dutch Hollow Restaurant is accepting student applications for mo~t shifts. Apply in person 9-5 weekdays.

CONCORDIENSIS, November 5, 1987 Page 7 FEATURES Individual Tutorials: An Idea Whose Time Has Come WilliamstCJ'Nll, MA (IP).,. A proposal by 't.he Committe@. on Educational Policy would reqWJ:e WillLams students to take two ••,intensive teaching engagements,.' or tutorials, as part of. tlien regUlar cour- sework~ In a tutorial, according to a draft of tile proposal, two students WCJ11ld meet with a teacher to :wscuss an essay prepared b{olleof the students: The studen:ts come into the tutorial havillg read materials. the tutor has suggested. One student reads his ·essay, and aan intense :critical discussion follows.\ Under· the proposal each student would be required to take two t~t~rials out of 32 semester C()lll'Ses. The first hit-erial woUld be taken in thE' ~ophomore year. The second would be taken during the sertiGtyear as part of the major. 'lbe tutorials woUld be introduced' ~n a phased basiS, starting witlrthe senior tutorial in 19~9 and the sophomore tutorial the iiJill()Wing academic year. - It was genErally agreed by CEP memi:Jer:s that a tutorial would meet 12 times a semester, a11d each student would be reca\:lired to write and present six 11-to 12-page papers. Each week one of the two students in the tutorial would present an es~ay. According.to the draft, ''tile n.et addition to the faculty :for two tutorials woUld be apJlroximately 12.\ Economies Professor Richard Sa!)ot, one of the framers of the proposal, said that the tuto~ial \does .not aim at impartmg knowledge but rather at helping the student to think for hinl~elf.\ Dean of the- College, Stephen Fix, said tut()rials are desirable because proill!ssors are able to \Hold a single student to all the consequences; ()£ their ideas.\ Sabot said tllat the style of the tutorial depen>ds on -the student. \Sometimes as academics we go for the jugular. Not all students res]!Ond well to this.\ maintained that if the tutorial format is used only in the senior year, the educational institution as. a whole will not benefit. He asserted that if sophomore tutorials are implanted, \oral and' written skills will be better in subsequent ·courses. A sophomore is more open to change, and the senior tutorial 'W()Wd be more effective than it Gtlterwise woUld be.'' Toomajian suggested that sophomQre tutorials shoUld not co11nt towards fiillilling major requirements. He said that it woulddiscourage students from taking tutorials in heavily enrolled departments. Assistant History Professor Thomas Kohut !$aid that the tutorial pr~gram should stand on its m~rit as an educational tool. ''We shouldn't Use this as a redistribution method. We com,promise the educational value if we use it in a manipulative way.\ History professor William W~gner labeled the proposal c'ro.mantic and naive in the extreme,,· mairttaining that. -tutorials require t<>o great · a iime commitment from faculty and students. Wagner called iutorials \bloody hard work\ .and Said they would place \severe staffing constraints on the faculty.\ The Oxford system, which served as a rough model for the CEP draft, would be inadequate at Williams because, Wllike Oxford, tutorials here would be graded Wagner said. He added that \some students might not be .pleasant to teach in this format.\ CEP Chairman Thomas Jorling said that tutors in :the Williams-Oxford program have been grading students for a year and \the gracling aspect by tutors seems to be a pOSSibility.\ Philosophy professor Peter Lipton said that the tutorials offer an \extraordinary op- portunity . for intellectual in· timacy.\ Lipton said that he felt that the Workload for a tutorial would be the same as a nonnai coUl'se because the focus of a tutorial is a student's work. _So.me student$ have all the luck! Oh, I've Had Sleepless Nights By~ORIEHOFFER Features Editor The ultimate episode of \Family Ties\ was when Alex had insomnia. I could totally · relate. Being an eight hour person myself, I am often plagued with a severe case of the same illness. My room~ mates know this well. Fresh- man year was the worst. It's the year I acquired the disease. The people on my floor were no help, nor were the mean, mean boys who lived below. I would get in bed at an early.,.hour, and be about to drift off to sleep . . . when all of a sudden-the floor began to vibrate with head banging, subliminal message- filled demonic music! So, I would employ my allm time favorite RA, (future MD), to go down and ask the guys if they could lower the sound. She would reluctantly agree. However, they paid her no mind. Then, I tried to. use a hanuner and bang on the floor, But, my roo~ate, who could somehow sleep through the music, (although I don't really think she did), would wake up when I began to hit the floor. I made some serious enemies that year~ (but my roommate loves me). people, I have learned more gossip at two a.m. than I have in a year. I have tried almost every remedy in the book to fall asleep. But nothing works. I can combat my fatigue and exhaustion witll my awesome mental ability. Some good has resUlted from this horrible problem. For example, Gne night I was absolutely fed up with this insomnia business. It was three in the 1 moming. I got out of bed, went to my word pr!)cessor, and in one shot wrote an \A\ paper. I am also awake and alert for many late night fire drillS. And I can always distinguish the overnight visitors · from the regular inhabitants. Basically, insomnia is not worth even a medical sillgle returning .from a term abroad. I forfeit a night out in order to get some shut-eye and wind up being awake when my friends return from their evening af~ faits anyway! In fact, they usually are asleep before I am. College Registrar Charles Toomajian ·questioned the wisdom of the sophomore tutorial, pointing out that, in taking cours4!s in their wtential majors, Stlldents would be adding to the _ existing distribution lmbalance. Sabot Get Psyched for Turkey Day! The game at the end of the year was to see how long people could throw tennis balls against the wall to wake me up.· Nice friends I had! But the sad truth is I can hear everytldng at night. My nocturnal senses are terrific. Living next door to However, life is not witho11t justice. Despite the fact that I look horrifying with eyes the size of dimeslots--I can always wear my shades. r The. :))est 'Ln 'Ltattan & Gre~ 1\ooc£ ~ Pizza, C:l azones Pasta, Veal · Souvlaki~ Gyros Wine an.d Beer Eat in or take out 1.CWo discount with Union College l.D. CA8T:BLLO ·s · *Will Deliver- ' Pizza and Restaurant 1487 State Street Sche11ectady *Wi II Deliver 374-0581 ...,; SKIERS- DON'TBURN,_ l.mported from Switzerland. \Mountain Sun Cream:. Protective, effected from Sun ·and Dry climates · u·sed in Europe at ~major spki res<?rts Send $3.00 for generous sample to: · WALSH lnternational7 Bb~ 658~ Melrose, MA 021.76 The CROSSTALK Committee invites you to a discussion of the question: \WHO SHOULD .BE WEALTHY?\ November 11,1987 Sylvestor Stallone's income is in the millions, while school teachers and nurses routinely make less than $20,000 per year. CED's of Fortune 500 companies make 5 to 1 0 times the salary of the President of the United States. Members of the CROSSTALK committee live hand to mouth while Phil Donahue refuses to eat domestic figs. Is this as it should be? Pro.minent members of the Union Community will begin the discussion at 8.:00 PM on THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11 IN THE ATRIUM. Brin·g your sense of justice or outrage, your opinions and friends, and join in this lively discussion! ' ,, '

. - 41\ge 8 CONCORDIENSIS, November 5, 1987 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Politics • Ill B ... . rttatn Buddhist Speaks at Union ByLINA NGAMTRAKULPANIT Khenpo Karthar Rilipoche was born on Aug. 25, 1925 in Eastern Tibet. At the age of twelve, he began his formal education at Trangu Monastery. He w~s fully or- dained as a :monk in the Hinayana tradition and received the ordination of the Mahayana and Javrayana from Ven. Situ Rinpoche at the age of twenty. He spent the next five years devoted to an intensive meditation program. In 1959 Khenpo Rinpoche left Tibet for political reasons. In India, he helped establish the first seminary teaching .of Buddhism. Later:, Rinpoche became the Abbot (Khenpo) of Kanglung Monastery in Bhutan. The Internati()nal Student Union, The Philo;ophy For.um, and Karma Thegsum Choling Buddhist Center are .honored to present the venerable Kenpo (Abbot) Karthar Rinpoche in a public- talk on Thurs., Nov. 12, 7:30 p.m. in the College Auditorium. Topics discussed will include· an appropriate method in dealing with ·anxiety, pain and a way to resolve personal conflicts which will result in a ·:mature and a happy life. By JULIA.EASON and LORRAINE JARVIS The British system Qf government is a representative democracy, not too dissimilar to that of America. Our secondary house, being mainly of hereditary peers, is com- monly known as the Lords. Not every member is a hereditary peer however; some are life peers, given the honor ~ for servicesto their country .. These include noted poUtici~ns, businessmen, and trade union leaders, The house is divided along part;y lines with each political party having representatives among the Lords. In contrast. to the American Senate, which is made up entirely of . elected representatives, the House is divided along party lines with each political paJ'tY having representatives among the Lords. There are four major political parties in England; Con- servative, Labour~ Liberal, and ' Social Democrat. The Liberal • and Conservative Parties are the oldest, while the Labour and ! Social Democratic Parties were 'r-======:=--------, - - 1+1 -· ''Ni Hao'' from China Union's \Second Coming'' is alive and well (some more than others). Our resident advisor/mentor, \Uncle Bruce\Reynolds · can, by day, be found slurping the washed rice that is served for breakfast; by night, singing and drinking the local beer at the Jinling Hotel Lounge. (By default) Kal Patel (Ba Kai. - Triumphant Attempt) became our \group leader\ on that first groggy night in Shangai. He's bravely at- tempting to convert China over to capitalism, much to the dismay of the rest of the group. We hope that you caught a good glimpse of Joel McKuin (Man Jin Jiu - Gold Ancient) before he left, because there isn't much of him left (Leslie, send food! ) . Andy Mass (Ma An Lu - Peaceful 'Road) is steadfastly winning over the hearts of every Chinese with his rendition. of Country Rood (the only American song that the Chinese know). Meanwhile, the BMOC (Stephan Jaeger), Jie ~ai Feng - Peacful Peak), Wlth the combination o{ his prowess Oll the soccer field anif his pen- chant for wearing a drug/hippie helmet, has made him the campus stud. · · We don't knew the where- abouts of Dave Markenso11 (Ma Da Wei • Achieve Great- ness). We think he has set up· pennanent residenc.e in Ho~g Kong. You can wnte to him . there, c/o Pizza Hut. Keith Ireton, a.k.a. Daddy-o ( Ai Ji Si- Entrust thoughts) has been dazzling all with his knowledge of Manzi (Chinese characters). Not only does he talk like a middle-aged native, he looks 'like one as well, with his sweet new Chinese glasses and his proletari.an, blue Mao cap. Lisa Mercugliano (Mei Li Sha - Beautiful Sand) aspires to be the next great Chinese traditional painter. As she slaves over her peach and plwn blossom paintings hour after hour, she is told politely \nice attempt.\ By tbe way, next time you see Lisa on campus, hawk a big wad <Of phlegm for her; she'll love it. · Anne Mauboussin (Mao Xii:m An) has been ,described by Chinese students as walking softly ''like a white cloud.\ (No, not ,like the toile:t paper). Her name in Chinese means Celestial Peace \'hich is hardly the case when she practices her Erhu (2-string;ed Chinese violin). Ellen Ruffing (Lii Ai Lun - Love's Ethics), emerging after 3 weeks of catat~»nic sleep; has taken up water coler lessons; and drinking yogurt. What a goof! Ruth Anajovich (An Lu Si - Peaceful Silk Road) can deal with anything (staring, spitting, etc.) as .long as people keep buying her ice cream, ice water that is sold on the streets (definitely wortb the 8¢ that theycost). . It's no coincidence that Jeff Coleman (Ke ~n Jie .. Out- standing Man) ts last. As he · almost found out the hard way, buses leaving from Yellow Mountain do leaV!'e on time .. His only savior was a driver who succeeded in speeding down the winding road (James Bond style l to cut off our bus. Of course, he's never late for the Western-style brWlch at the JinlingHotel. In all seri()iusness, we are trying to int~grate as best we can . into· campus life here, in Nanjing. Some are taking painting lesscns, others calligraphy, others (Chinese) flute, and others still the Erhu. We learn a lot in our Chinese classes, but the.y are only · a support for the knowledge and experience we gain on the street. To date, we've travelled to Shangai, and Yellow Mountain (known for its jagged cliffs and ancient pines). It was well worth the effort of climbing the stairs to the 1800 meter summit, · where we left our mark, in the form of an engraved plaque with our. names, and that of Union College (look for it next time you are up tl).ere), Now we're .,n our way to Beijing, with a stoP<>ver in Qufu (the birth~ and death-place of Confucius). We will certainly see all the typieal tourist sites, and hopefully some. not-so- typical sites as well. After Ute term, we will be travelling en our own. Some .prospective plans are to Tibet (pending the political situation), Xi'an, Canton, Hong Kong, Japan, Hawaii, and San Francisco for a New Year's Eve date with Jerry and the boys. So, even though we have miS$ed Homecoming, snow in October, and ·beer at the Skellar (and the Head of the Ch~rles! ), China has proven to be more exciting and challenging than · any of us anticipated. See you in January ( ... maybe). P .s. Ellen wears corn bat boots. founded in the twentieth cen- tury, th~ Social Democrats being a product of the last decade. Today, -the two parties commanding majority support are t:h.e Conservatives, led by Margaret Thatcher, and Labour, led by Neil Kinnoch. Thetwo other parties are at this time diScussing a merger to fol1n a third major partY whicb would hopefully command enough support to be a serious contender for power. In general elections, ( elec:- tions to choose the government) /everyone over eighteen has the .right to vote. Vo~jhg takes place in small areas known as ,con .. stituencies, each constituency voting into power a single representative.. Whichever party gets the most representatives forms the government, and their leader takes the position of Minister of the Treasury otherwise known as Prime, MinisteJ;. The other parties form the opposition. It is, however, the monarchs' perogative to call for elections, ask the leader of the majority pe.rty to fotm a government, and to opel) parliamentary proceeclings. In England at the pr~sent time, tJ;w Conservative Party hold$ the majority and as such forms the gove~ept. At the moment, England has differing geographic party loyalties. The South is predominantly Con- servative, the N<lrth and Scotland voting primarily for Labour. This_ can be partially attributed to the prevailing . economic climate~ Scotland and northern England are still undergoing a recession, while the over.all view of the southern economy ·is bealthy, with the South' beconli:hg · increasingly prosperous. This \divided\ countr:y situation was under muc'b discussion during' the recent election campaignsi with the Conservatives denymg its exi$ence; whilst Labour tried to highlight the problem. One major difference bet;. ween our political .systems . is our constitUtions : . while .America;s is a written ~ocument, plainly stating what can and cannot be done, in England we have no written constitution. We instead relY upon an assortment of laws and · legislation, and a maze of :perogatives and precedents. 400 Blows ByAIMESIMON French director Francois Truffaut's films examine the way .peolJle live together:-His reputation rests on his abijity to pentrat.ingly explore relationships and the . role of love in those relationsbips. Unlike many filmmakers of the late 1950's, Truffaut's humanity is far more important than his intellect or his technique. Although incorporating ex· pressionist and nouvelle. vogue stylistic methods, be uses a dramatic format, . basing character development on action. Personality is revealed through small details and isolated meaningful incidents within the stream, of action. Truffaut's deta.tchment is key to his realistic portrayal of human relations. His camera remains on the outside, a neutral observer of society, creating no heroes or villains. His form also depends upon the art of surprise: \But I like everything which muddles the trail, everything which sows doubts . . . I enjoy unexpected details, things that prove nothing, things that show how vulnerable men are.\ The characters in his films· oft-en behave unpredictably or illogically so that the viewer is never fully prepared for the turn of,events, however well the evidence is presented. ''400 Blows\ is Truffaut's first fii.IIi. to receive significant rec9gnition. It is the story of a boy's . · early lost innocence caused by lack of love. The boy comes from an unstable family background. His mother was pregnant before . she was married, wanted an abOrtion, but was convinced to have the baby. Shortly afterward, she marries another man, and the child becomes an obviously unwanted intruder in their lives. As his mother's and step- father's relationsbipfalls apart, he is used as a pawn, as an instrument through which they attack and comfort each other. Because of the deteriorated home environment, he is continually getting in trouble at his authoritarian school and iS finally sent away unloved and rejected to .a refo11llatory. In the final scene, he is seen, after having run away, on a beach, standing with his feet in the water-trapped and alone with an empty sky and sea. The film ends as the boy stares directly · and hauntingly at the camera. ... ' It ll il 11 .I 'I .1 f :~ ,, ' :·,;· 1'· ,, / ' I \ (i '-t 1,· ~·. - .-

' ' \!J' ,,, '! i \ I ),1 \I 'i lc ' '' I '' '' I ~ : i' i I ' CONCORDJENSIS,, November 5, 1987 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES As~ pots l>xew; rain.Poor&.doVIII. and coastal Brit• winds blow.· We sit.in pu}>s and pood,et ovrz Wall Street and your snow. We wmde:r jfthe student.centcr will be given a 'real' name, and if\Skelbu\ Brew\ is rea]lytllere; and if it iastes·the~ sam~. We drink ~\U\ pints .and oo:der more: \a Foster7s pleaS!)~, and' fast,\ and read th!l whole C<111cordy- Jim wl>i\d through. to last. We, fight overthe'()Ci\SO!WIS and chug anotber half . \to P:tesmol For not sending us to Tehn!n instead of Bmth.\ We~ ofmissing Union- \You guys ain't so bad,\ and hape gel-time gives you a chance. to ~d wl;lat fQn we've had, Prof. Mutpl1ytc:aches verse, weltaveiams arid ~pundis down. The girls all \stare at\ Trends class taught by heart.thtob of the town.' 'Papa Murph' distributes mail- it~s forNancy G:.etch day. EV AN!You don!tJmow us all, but please send some our way! When we have no mail to·tead (hint-hfut) we resort to teasing Yin, who got lucky in the: Netherlands and sports a macho glin. Nancy C goes waterskiing- We think. she· likes to freeze, but \better to get pneumonia, Vin, than Venereal' Disease!\ Mary uses cat cBs to piCk up taXi-driving studs, and Trl8tan1s on a mission to eat•England out of ~uds. She comes ~gh whe!! out dining- a spakesWOmiiJl Witlrclout, but.bringCQI~:yifyQU w.ant to be t:lribuassed,orkicked out. Have you heard ofTiila and Steff's denial intO France? Unlike one Who sunb.athed nude there, who·could that be,.Nance7 ·Furtny says she's done \M stupid~ • thus far her claim ·stands :fiml, • butjust.mention the woroTinkle,.·and scetbepoor girl squiml. RoQin M. proclaims$hels been, a& jnn~tasFan, yet took off wi~ t1m:e guys to -whc:re else but Amsterdam! Kate's always being subway - smushed, .despite.hct life's persistence, but lest shelea:p~. sOOn., toL<JOK.LEf!', she'll be minus•one existence. Perhaps·she will swvive, to leam with Tri.st: \A scones ·a burt!\ We·al): knew that; but did you lmow that Rob I.,. mooned a nun? Yup, with~; offMt. Pilarur,after·hesatinpigeondl:op. • Have you heard Rob G. do .AlairFunt? ·He makes uslaugh.non-stop; 'till we.r¢callhe mamed·a dog, with tltc'tin:s·ofbis bike, but then fell three times, and laij\ hi!; llhliin, ontltat same short hike. Tlie O.RE.s weretaken, andw.e truly'hilpel?ete pasS!'(l .. Wewailthinl tQ move on in life· f!li' he:re~we'veall hem gassed. C~y and Hel¢nehavefound, tbe \pub 9fllwl\ quite a thriller but Lceni.e has outdone herself with Hatd Rock!s \Katma Killer,\ Corey was1eft sober, for·she's needed.hc:re .... God knows ... to tell us how to insert' Flinstoo.e's vitamin~. up our nose. Noel got lost in Loadon -II%0Und Westmirriste.r side and longed for Tony Wal~. our orange-cladded guide. \Papa Muwh\ getS worried:- counts the baddies- two by two. Craig says, \llost Noel on tbe tube, what was I to do? Craig is said to squeak tl1ese &ys, just like a rusty ciiT, but Larry will splutg!l fo.r Playbo~ - whateVer ·price they are, Dave's in chiii!le of Tudl}y Day - our elooted ]Uso!l, a decision \near unanimous\ - but IHIC vo~- his own. He's learning ballroom clancing, crushing English ladies' feets, While Kate haS chooen·slam-dance- in Central London!s streets. WemnernberHamdenPalacellll we drink our shots a11d ales Na,nce C. shocked the English g~mtry, said she'd slept with the Prillce ofWales We mnember all there was to see, as we \get piss~, .. iit the pubs, and how Fan and Coiey were obsessed with chomping on the sbtubs. They.saw them shaped like Hershey's Kiss- Chcxolate straight from home, but.now theJ wash!em doWn vrith pints and leave a 'stach~ of foam. We do the \Superior Dance\ tllroogh.Britain- as we \Yankee Mates\ explore led by T.J. who's in·sea:rCh of another- Revolutionary War. We was cornered by someBiits - and fo:ree9 to hear their.sennon, to wbich.he said, \IfnotforUS you'dallbespeakingGerman!\ 'Fay' has gifted us, with existentialistic views, as we scramble fo.r our Rover Cards while waiting on the queues; N() 1\lshforSteff and::fin.a, ~-h~~;v~ thel.f C@Ids out thjs dJI~, . • · • ·\ ·l:iecau$e 1ilteany other, ille bu8 wi,llp~ tb~ U1yway: And they'll show up !lite witlicNii:Ik, wb seeks his lateSt 3ow, with wanting-pim;ing eyes \md: deeply fimOwedbrow. Can iron's gentleman - calll!:l\ rings -each night- drunk- no.fail. And' she was \booied\ from. a taxi.-cab,herfriend.loolcingquitepale. Danielle makes a saci:ifice. each day -.about two qliid, to rightfully earn her title here- :Oath's own ''Toblerone-'K:i.d\ Sheri and :Marl live in tlu~ streets - things get rather ti_gbt, when evicted' from their hom~ iii bath, for flu& rung late atnight, Nancy C. \;Illites frantically, the poem's anxiously awaited, but finds the brain is slowing and \he motor nerves sedated. So ... she·chugs anoth.er pint (to help rollild out the poc;m), and With happy hopes but heavy hearts we say fuewell to home. And raise our pints to Ullion: \~heers!\ This place is a blast! We'll:see you soon, fo.r we have f<1und, the days fly by so ... quick1y. Brazilian Professor at Union By KEVIN HONIKEL As you may have noticed, there are many new faces among the faculty this tenn. · One of them is new even to this country, and her name is. Ester Kosovski. Professor Kosovski is a Visiting FUllbright Scholat from .the ·Fedral University of Rio de J1Uleiro in Brazil. She currently is teaching a sociology course entitled \Law Constitution and SocietY in Brazil and the United States,\ and . will be in tbe ·countzy until . December. D.uring her e~rien<;e here, Professor Kosovski feels that in additon to her. . teaching Americans about Brazil; she too is learning abclut our society. According. to ,her, it is ''a relaUonsbip in which we give eacb, othet something.\ She has followed' the Bork hearings closely alld says that it shows part of the way in · which democracy in the United States works. She is impressed by the attention Americans pay to trials, expecially on television, with many shows being devoted to the activities of policemen, . lawyers and judges. She feels that shows representing trials help , people. learn to think critically and ·to realize that nothing is ever simply \black\ or \white\ in the real world. At Union, Profess()~ Kosovski hopes. to help Americans realize the importance of Brazil and the South American continent to the world,. and to help Americans. understand the changes that are occuring in her C!ountry at this tbne. At almost the same time t4at our _ cD~tcy . is celebrating the two-hundredth birthday of its Constitution,. the various groups in Brazil are buzy drawing ~PP a new con· stitution, for .their country. The persons involved in making the new constitution, Professor Kosovski included, are hopeful that a type of dernreracy in Brazil will emerge frDm their efforts. Professor Kosovski admits this is no easy task due partly to the fact that a repressive governmental system had been in place there until very recent times. In the way in which such persons as Thomas Jefferson were considered ~'founding fathers,\ professor Kosovski sees herself as a ~'founding mother,\ in trying: to adapt some of the elements of· our democr~cy to Brazilian soCiety. THE FESTIVJt 1\ ,;{ \:\ •J . OF J -NAT~ Participants: • Argentina • Armenia • China \ F;rench Canada • Germany • Hungary • lrtc:lia • Indonesia • Ireland • Israel \' Lithuania • Pakistan • Poland • Russia· • S-<:omdinavia • Spain • Syria ~- Ukraine • United States 16th ANf.l!UAL FESTIVAL OF NATIONS SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1987 12::()0 Noon - 6:00 P. M. EMPIRE STATE PLAZ.A Albany, N.Y. GENERAL ADMISSION: PERFORMANCE e FOO[) • C~A~TS ADULTS $20() CHILDREN {5·151·51 00 Free Parking Mo11 'lay: Tue~day: W Cl(lttesday: Thursday: French table, 12:30 Itnlian table, 12:00 Spanisl1 table, 12:3() Gcnnan (able, 12:0() Lang02t;e tables will meet in the Pub at the Colle_ge Center; and all r:ne:l!lbers of the college community are welcome to attend .. She feels that tbe lack of trust between go'Vernment and the people, whiclt was fostered by the long l:lis;t()ry of repression, poses a potelltial threat to the democrat~mti:on of her country. Also, she likens the sudden end of repressioa in Brazil to a caged Qird.,'I.J~jng releas~d:after a life pf Cl()nfinement. The people of Rrazil, like a bird, · want to use tbeir freedom, but do not kno.-w how. Professor Kosq>~ski feoels, however, that the increasi::ng awareness and education of the people, along with the free press they now have, will b!lp overcome the difficulties. PrDfess~r ICososki also points out that in :maklng. th@ · con- stitution, all various groups are trying to. include every considerati~n possible into it, so it can aet!lally be useful in practice and will thus be respected, tnlike constitu.tions of the p11st. Many questions have ariseJt as to how to deal with variOoliS Il!ltional problems in the new (l~iJStitution. One o.f the problE!l1S that Professor Kosovski m1~11tions is that of tryi.Iig to r~dlstribute land from the rich l&J~a:lowners to the poor people tltat .make up ninety percent o-:f the population. At present, mu:y peasants trying to use the l!ind are killed by the landowners\ private forces. In dealing witt this problem and others, Jll'()fessor Kosovski feels that tile radicals on both sides of tile issue make resolution more difficult. In geneTal, bowever, the Bratilians are a very yot.lrlg, progressive people, wl1ich Professor Kosovski thinks sbould be a. good influence on the new constittltion. When Professor Kosovski does depart. Union Conege to . parttcipa te in the making of ller, coun1ry's constitution and to continue her law practice, she · willmiss her time here.Sbe has enjoyed tbe pleasant, peaceful, prod11ctive atmosphere here, and the well struetured acatlemic facilities of the schoe>l. She is grateful to the facltlty, especially Pr()fessor Huggins, for their- effects to increase . the opportunities available to people at Union College. Professor KCJsovski would also .like to thank the · students here for working with ller, and exclianging ideas :whieh c()uld benefit Americans andErazilians alike. I.S. U. TABLE Every Friday 12_:30-1 :30, DUTCH HOLLOW PUB Active Members diSCbiSS latest issues. CALL NICHOLAS X68260R UNA X4439

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS., November 5, 1987 C!t11mrhirnsis Working For You In the past we have been somewhat skeptical concerning the. effectiveness of the Student Forum. After having attentled last Sunday's Student Forum meeting, it became ;tpparent that this group deserves .more respect for the:ir work. One new element in the Forum's program is the introduction of \Office Hours.\ Forum members are. scheduled to have: regular hours when they are available to hear stmaent concerns. Although students have not taken full :advantage .of this time there have been concerns exiJressed. Complaints were made concerning the former security escort system. Forum representatives voiced these concerns at their meeting in the first week in October. The Forum drafted a letter which they sent to several Administrators and members of the secwity department requesting that the situation be impro-v~d. Security quickly responded to this issue, ex.pressip g interest in suggestions to update the escort service: Members of the Forum met with Jack Hill, Directo-r of Security and Safety~ Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, and several other administrators to solve the problem. As a result, security set up a !;eJarate p~one for escort calls, and publicized the esc01rt number and escort hours in a mailing to the students. At the most recent Forum meeting, the representatives pre:;ented informative reports on the efforts they were making OJ) their individual committees. A motion was passed to create a social impact survey C()Jl<:erning Gel- Time, club status reports were given, a..nd the possible development of a 24-hour crisis phone was discussed among other concerns. The Stadent Forum also expressed concern over the problem with student phone listings. A representative volunteered to write up a memo, as 6000 no longer gi v.e:s out student numbers. According to Mike Hiller, Student Forum president, these lists have been availabLe for administrative use since the second week of the term; Furthermor~, an· Ad-hoc committee oa Security has been established to research problems in breaking and vandalilsm to vehicles. Union's Faculty vs. Other Colleges: Underpaid and O-verworked Right now, Un~io11 administration is preparing its budget for the 198S:-g9 school year. Soon, we will no doubt hear of tuiti10n increases, as will every other private college student in the nation. In the past, UnL()n tuition increases have been reasonable, at least when compared to other colleges. T~e problem is i11 Il()W the increases are distributed. Union faculty are getting the short end of the stick. In a listing of 19S5-86 faculty compensation (salary and fringe benefits) for that now-famous group of 32 ''schools we like to compare ourselves to,:· Union full professors ranked 25th, associate professors ranked 15th, and assistant professors ranked 22nd. What's worse is nhat position has slipped from the year before, where Union faculty ranked 22nd, 11th, and llth, respectiv.ely. Union did raise its salaries an average· of 5.9% from 1984-85 to 85-86, but fell further behind the other colleges. Last year, the s.:hool budget included a special allocation of $17.5.,000 to begin to make up the· difference. But spre~d out over the approximately 150 faculty, that mone)' doesn't go far enough. If Union wants to appear as attractive to faculty (at least in monetary terms) a.s schools like Lehigh, Lafayette, Bucknell, Middlebmry, St. Lawrence, Hamilton, and Vassar, this year's blldget will have to go further. If not, we may lose ot:1t on future and even present faculty members. --· ' ' _,____ ' . --· ~--~-- ' LETTERS The Nott Musical Memorial Tothe Edit9r: The Nott Memorial is now receiving attention for possible .renovation, and ideas are being prQposed for its use. In light of this, I wish to cite one deficiency here at Union: There is nowhere for musicians to practice their instruments or receive instruction. We are all proud of ·the strides our · or- Chestra has made in just three years, a{ld we have an established jazz ensemble as · well as a fledgUng pep band. However, every~Jne who has ever played . a . note on any musical instrwnent knows that Jf you want . to lt!lve · even minimal success, you must practi<!e! There is not even one room on-campus that comes close to providing an aecoustica.l at- . mosphere conducive to .prac- tice. As a senior Gatesrnan I find this very hard to explain to freshinen or prospective students. Consequently, I would like to see Union utilize the space beneath the Nott, where the bOokstore used to be, for a nUIIlber of · accoustically ''dead'' practice;rooms. Professor Tann has written up a proposal calllng for - practice rooms in the basement of the Nott Memorial. I .strongly encourage ·all the students to rally . around this plan so that music Will continue to flourish atUnion. · Thomas Christopher · Theatre Fest a Success , To the campus community: The .MoW1tebanks considers Theatre Fest '87 a success. (And why Nott?! ?) The festival was the result of the hard work and the assistance and cooperation of many peoplle. We would like to thank Jan Gray of Dining Services and the staff of the upperclass dining room for their tremendous effort and cooperation with the dinner theatre. Jeri Clark was extremely helpful in every aspect of Theatre Fest and smoothed over many ad- ministrative details. Mrs. Marra, as always, was com- pletely supportive of our:plans. We woiuld also like to thank. the· judges of the Talent Show: Dean Roth, Professor Charles Steckler, Mrs. Marra and Karen Sapio for their time; Dave Provost .of Cabaret for his assistance; and the Schenec- tady City Mission for tne fUl\· niture used in The Bald Soprano . . Colicordiensi$ was very generous in supporting our pubUcity campaign. · · We gratefUlly acknowJedg~ the presence of many faculty at the dinner- theatre and we ap- preciate your continued sup- port Theatre Fest was a suc- cess because · of the entire campus community who got up and out as audience' to the Cabaret, the Dinner Theatre and the Talent Show. The Mountebanks b.Opes ·that you enjoyed Theatre Fest as much as we enjoyed presenting it for you. Again, many thanks to everyone for their 'help. Keep in mind . The Birds, opening Thursday, Nov.12 in the Nott. · The E~ecutive Board · of Mountebanks Randi Goldstein LeAta Jackson Michelle Maratto Andy -Livernois MikeCseh P.S. There are still 1 'Why Nott\ t-shitts available. Mountebanks Mounts Magnificent Masterpiece To the editor: Friday afternoon at 4 pm in the Atrium, \Long After LWlch\ performed and did a super job. Many, many thanks to the Mountebanks. It was a wonderful weekend. Your ef- forts in producing such fine entertainment, starting with the Cabaret on Thursday, coJl- tinuing with the Dinner Show on Friday and Saturday, and ending with the Talent Show on the Sunday. were greatly ap-- preciated. Your venture with the new concept of the Dinner Theater and the Talent Show -were well accepted. There was a great turnout-we hope to see · more of the great talents of the Mountebanks soon. Lorraine Marra Student Activities The headings WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER t - 11:15-1:15 and TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2- 8:30-10:30 should read TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1 and WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2 respectively. ELL 33 (Tuesday, Dec. 1 - 11 :15-1 :15) will be given in BU 109 and BU 106. PHL 30 (Wednesday, Dec 2- 11:15-1 :15) is given inHU 116. EEB. 33 (Wednesday, Dec. 2- 2:00-4:00) is given in.BH 207. HST 121 - Amer. Const. and Legal History- Jonas will now be given on Thursday, December 3 - 8:30-10:30 in room BH 207. {It was not listed 9t all.) ThanksDG To the Editor:· Last night, for the first time, · the International House was recognized by one of the Greek houses on campus. As soon as the international students walked into Delta Gamma, we were warmly welcomed by the sisters, who invited the guests to help themselves to the food that .had been prepared. While the dinner was taking place, both officers of Delta Gamma and the International House exchanged regards, thanks and signs of friendly gratitude. After dinner some of Delta Gamma's guests were shown around the house, while others enjoyed speaking with the amicable hosts. The students of the In- ternational House thank the sisters of Delta Gamma for their hospitality. We hope to be able to return their kindness in the future. The Members of International House CLJ.JB OFFlCERS Slatus Rep<>rts are due~ by 4:30 in Mrs. Marra's office. Additional forms areavliilable from Mts. Marn. Failure to comply will resuh in .a frozen budget!

. Page IG ClJNCORIJlENSIS., N'ovunber 5, l!i81 Working For. You I11 the past we have been somewhat skeptical concerning the effectiveness of the Student Forum. Aft~r having attended last Sunday's Student Forum meeting,. it became apparent that this group deserves m<>re respect for their work. · · One new element in the Forum's program is the introduction of \Office Hours.\ Forum members are. scheduled to have regular hours when they are available to hear student concerns. Although students hatve not taken full advantage .of this time there have bee11 concerns expressed, Complaints were made con~erning th.e .former security escort system. Forum representatives voiced these concerns at their meeting in the first week in October. The -Forum drafted a letter which they sent to several Administrators and members of the security department requesting that the situation be improved. Security quickly responded to thi:s issue, expressi~g interest in suggestions to update th:e escort service: Members of the Forum met :with Jac~ Hill, Director of Security and Safety, Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, and several other administrators to solve the problem. As a result, security set up a .separate p~one for escort calls, and publicized the escort number and escort hours in a mailing to the students. At the most recent Forum meeting~ the representatives presented infonnative reports on the efforts they were making OJ) their individual committees. A motion was passed to create a social impact survey concerning Gel- Time~ club status repor1s were given, and the possible development of a 24-hour crisis phone was discussed among other C()ncerns. The Student Forum also expressed concern over the problem with student phone listings. A representative volunteered to write up a memo, as 6()()() no longer gives out student numbers. According to Mike Hiller, Student Forum president, these lists ha:ve been available for administrative use since the second week of the term. Furthermor~, an· Ad-hoc committee on Security has been established to resear.ch problems in breaking and vandalilsm to vehicles. Union's Faculty vs. Other Colleges: Underpaid and Overworked Right now, Union administration is preparing its budget for the 1988-89 school year. Soon, we will no doubt hear of tuition increases, as will every other ptivate college student in the nation. In the past, Union tuition increases have been reasonable, at least when compared to other colleges. T!le problem is in how the increases are distributed. Union faculty are getting the short end of the stick h a listing of 1985-86 faculty compensation (salary a.ncl fringe benefits) for that now-famous group of 32 \schools we like to compare ourselves to,~· Union fun pr<>fessors ranked 25th, associate professors ranked 1 5th, and assistant professors ranked 22nd.. What's worse is that position has slipped from the year before, where Union faculty ranked 22nd, 11th, and 11th, tespectively. Union did raise its salaries an average· of 5.9% from 1984-85 to 85-86, but feH f'urt:her behind the other colleges. Last ye.ar, the school budg~t included a special allocation of $175,000 to begin to make up· the; difference. But spread out over the apptoximately 150 faculty, that money doesn't go far enough. If Union wants to appear as attractive to faculty (at least in rnonetary terms) as schools like Lehigh, Lafayette, Buck:nell 9 Middlebury, St. Lawrence,. Hamilton, and Vassar, this year's budget will have to go further. If not, we tnay lose out on future and even present faculty nt<~mbers. · . . LETTERS. The Nott Musical 'Me.morial . . · TotheEditor: The Nott Memorial is now receiving attention for possible renovation, and ideas a~ being prop<Jsed for its use. In light of this, I Wish to cite one deficiency here at Union: There is nowhere for musicians to practice their instruments Qr receive instructiQn. We are. all proud ()f the strides ·our or- chestra has made in just three years, a~d we have an established jazz ensemble as · vrell as a Uedgling pep band. However, evei'yQGe' who has ever played . a . note ()ll any musical iilstnnnent knows. that _if you want , to lJ;~.ve · everi mirumal suceeS!j, you must practice! . There is not even ()ne room on.ocamplJ$. that conies close to providi,ng an accoustical at .. · mo~phere conducive to prac- tice. As a $eni'4lr Gatesman I find this very :bard to explain to freshinen . or , prospective students~ Consequently, I wol,lld like to see Union utilize the · si>3ce beneath the NQtt, where the b®k$tore qged to be, for. a .number ()f · aecf.lustically \dea!J!' practice rooms. Professor Tarm :~s written up ll proposal caUing fQr - practice rooms in the·baSement ofthe Nqtt Memorial.lstrongly · encourage ·all the ··students t{) rally around this pl~ sQ that music will contiiltJe to floilrisb. at Union. Thoma:scCJ:ll'istopher Theatre Fest a Success T()the campus community: The Mot.mtebanks considers Theatre Fest '87 a success. .(.And why Nott?!?) The festival was the result of the hard work and the assistance and cooperation of many peop)le. We would like to thank Jan Gr~y of Dining Services and the . ~taff of the upperclass dining · t()om for their tremendous effort and cooperation vvith.tbe . , dinner theatre. Jeri Clark was . extremely .helpful in e:very . · .aspect of Theatre Fest and · smoothed over many ad- . miilistrative details. Mrs. · , Marra, as always, was com- ;pletely supportive·ofourplans. We woiuld also like to thank the judges of the Talent Show: Dean Roth, Professor Charles Steckler; Mrs. Marra and Karen Sapio for· their tm:ae; Dave Provost of Cabaret:for his . assistance; and the· Schenec- tady City· Mission for the fur- niture used in The B=Ud.Soprano .. ColiCQtdiensis was very generous ln ~supporting Ol.Jl' publieity campaign. · ~ We gratefully acknoivl~dge the·presence of many faculty at . the dinner theatre and w~ ap-. preciate your continued sup- port. Theatre Fest was a suc- r:!ess because - of the entire campus comiiiunity who got up and out as audience· to the Cabaret, the Dinner .Theat~ and the Talent Show. The Mountebanks hopes . tllat you enjoyed Theatre Fest as much as we enjoy~d presenting it for YQU. Again, many tba$s tcr eveeyone for their help. Keep: in mirld The Birds,, opening Thursday, N.ov.12 intheNott. · The Executive Board · of.Mountebanks RandiGoldstein Le:Ata JackSon Michelle Maratto Anciy-Livernoll! MikeCseh P .S. There are still \Why Nott\ t,;smrts available. Mountebanks Mounts Magnificent Masterpiece To the editor: Friday afternoon at 4 pm in the Atrium, ''Long After Lunch\ perfonned and did a super job. Many, many thanks to the Mountebanks. It was a wonderful weekend. Your ef- fllrts in . prod\Ucing .such fine entertainment, starting with the Cabaret on . 'Thursday, con• tinning with the Dinner Show on Friday and Saturday, and ending with the Talent Show on the Sunday were greatly ap.- :preciated. Your venture with the new concept of the Dinner Theater and the Talent Show ·were well accepted. 'There was, a great turnout-we hope to see · more of the great talents of tl:te Mountebanks soon. Lorraine Ma11ra Stude!ltActivities The headings WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 1 . -11:15-1:15 and TUESDAY, m;CE:MBER 2- 8:30~1 0:30 should read TUESD..AY, DECEMBER 1 and WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2 respectively. , ELL33 (Tuesday, Dec. t- 11:1'5,.1:15) will be given in BU 109 and.BU 106. PHL 30 (Wednesday, Dec 2 · 11:15-1 :15) is given inl::i!J 116. EEB. 33 (Wednesday, Dec. 2 · 2:00-4:00) is giveninatf 207. . HSi 121 - Amer. Const. and legal History - Jonas will now be given on Thursday, December 3 - a:30-t0:30in room BH 207. {It was not listed 9t all.). ThanksDG To the:Editor:· Last night, for the first time, the International House . was recognized. by one of the Greek houses on campus.· As soon as the international students walked into Delta Galllil1a, we were warmly welcomed by the sisters, who invited the guests to help themselves to the food that ,had. been prepared. While the dinner was taking place, both officers of Delta Gamma .and the International House exchanged regards, thanks and signs ()f friendly gratitude. After dinner some of Delta Gamma's guests were shown around the house, while others . enjoyed speaking With the amicable hosts. . The students of the In- ternational House thank the sisters of Delta Gamma for ' their hospitality. We hope to be able to return their kindness in the future. The Members of InternationalHouse CLIJB OFFICERS Status Reports are due~ by 4:30 in Mrs. Marra's office. Additional foJms are available from Mrs. Marra. Failure to ' · c»mply will result in a frozen blldgetl

CONC'ORDIENSIS;' November '5, 1987 \\ Big .$cience By ALAN DESU 'VI() Ron Reagan maie ano~qer one oftnose grandiose speeches a while ago, attem:Pting, I presumed, to disi)EL .bis lame ·duck Unllge:hY gimg ~eric_a another goal tq ~ri\e for. In the speech I'm ref.errlng :to he said we were committed to building the Superconducttmg Super., collider~ To some 11lis br.ought back shades of othEt grandiose speeches promisiJig R giant · .Space StaUon in ()Fbit by 1982 and making nucle!U' missiles obsolete with Star War$ by the end . of the twentieth century (both conveniently l@ng after he leaves office). C()ngress m.ay actually be convineedtbe SSC iS a workable idea, llowever whether they approve of an administration pt()}>(l~l or not seems to be· depe11de!lt on how much it costs (and (}()nsequently reduces what they CJa:n spend on their own constitueots). The sse . is supposed to cost $4 billion, the statiCJn #2. billion 3 and SDI $60 to $1{)1')() pillion, so theSSC is,a verita1»1e barg~in as far as flashy big seience goes. Of course, tll,e. Defense · Department won'tlleable to get involved in it (ri~bt?): so the money will have to co!lle out of the rest of the bud~Jet. Also, the· . sse . will have . i() be built somewhere in the U.S., which means everyone wiU want it in their district of their· state. The station and star WBI'f) orbit over everyone .equally (theoretically) so no one benefits ~at least, tbat must be .how Congress understands it). 'lbe q~:~estion now is whethe~ this monst~r ·is worth it. $4 .billi()ll isn't th~t m.Uch .(! ) when co~pared to otn' fiscal year '87 deficit of $150 billion, $290 billion Do~; several hundred. billion dollar social security program, . and especially our Utanic . yearly few hundred billion dollar interest payment on. our $2.5 trUlion totaldefieit .( ! ),. This is tlle same lu.dlcrous argument made .to the Secmity and Safety (){ficer when a $50 traffic ticket is·comparedt.().the college's $30 million· endl)wment our $15 thousand in tUition. B11t what about .the nation's .science budget?. NASA;s total budget is abo11t $10 billion, with . only $1.5 billion in space sc~:ence. Tb.e National Science Fo1md.ation. budget i5 $2~ billion at m(lst, and the Department of ·Energy, which woUld,. onerate the sse if it was. built, doesn't g~t more than $1i-billion a year. So Co~g;ress is •faced with .authorizing a ·project that is wildly out of the h.onnal range for science in. this country. Other big fecilities· in other countries, CERN for example in Earope, w~s jointly fund~d by Switzerland ami France. · I'm in no position to judge the ·sciEntific efficiency of' any of these gigantic projects. In fact, I support them all, believing the money spent -will generate good sCience that will eventually filter down into society as a whole, just like the space shots of the sixties did. We must face reality and the G-R 1aw and determine whether· such large scale pr~jects are feasible.·, PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM :IJNI ON CotilC:E ' Nov. 5 '\lhe Arrow of Time and Irreversible Physic41l Processes\ Professor WI. J. Zenzen, Department of Philosophy. Professor Hl3. Hollinger, Department df Chemistry, RensselaEr P'olyt~chnic Institute NQTE PLAOi·Gollage CentEr Allditorium NYS Health Dept. to Begin By DAVID GIJLLIVER Editor-iiL .. Chief Testing of 1~;0~0. state residents' anonyrnemsly drawn blood samples £()!' exposure to AIDS began this tYH)nth at the Wadsworth Lab()ratmy on the Concourse of the JI:mj)ii'e State Plaza, the Department of Health announc€d The testing wiil indicate how much and what dstribution of the state popula1ion has been exposed to the Alil)S virus. The study will use blood samples collected t·outinely at hospitals, clinics and health facilities statewide. Theealth Depart., ment is COil~cti.ng those facilities and arra!lging to have samples sent to All)an:r. The $3.4 miiU()n program. which the departln.~at Claims is the largest Qf its kind yet for AIDS in the coUiltcy, shoUld be completed in .sis months. Ac., cording to Healtli Department spokesperson Fattll Chot-- tenfeld, • a large part of that budget 1s for hir:fug additional technicians to conduct the · testing. .. Chottenfeld' · Si!ill that the st-udy will help prepare state health servic~sfor the expected gr'eater volume of AIDS cases _ in tl1e future. \You ean't wait until you have people that need ca1•e and then not have the mechanism l'eady for them,\ she said. \Right now, we're W-()rking with purely statistical pL~ojedions,\ whereas the testing would provide a better, more factual base to project the fliture number and types of cases. In additi<m to taking samples from hospitals and clinics, the study will ttse blood collected at family plaming, TB, and sexually transmitted disease clinics, drug treatment programs, and . samples from iiifants at hereditary disorder sereenings and imnates' prison admission physicals. The testing guat·antees. an()nynlity thtough a double· blind system often used in experiments. When the blood is collected, it bears the patient 's identity and other information. B:ut the patient's identity is removed before the sample is given to til~ Health Depart- ment,. so researchers con· - SC_IENCE & TECHNOLOGY ~(Somehow I was hoping genetic engineering woQJd take a difierent tum.\ Book Recommendation: \Blind Ambition\ Goes High Tech By PROFESSOR RICHARD MAGAEIIZ · Physics Dtepartment \Nobel Dreams: Power, Deceit, and the tntimate Ex., periment.\ Gacy Taubes, Random House,1986,261 pp. Money, greed, cutthrQat competition, ' · international politics, blotched-covet ups - they are . all in this book. The supject is not a scandal on Wall Street, nor misconduct in high places. in government, nor Hollywood, but what is commonly referred tCJ as \pure science,\ the business of basic research. What \The Do11ble Helix\ was to molecular lliology, \Nobel . Dreams\ is to high--energy particle phyisies. · The action centers around the career of Carl() Rubbia and the va_rious projects he has headed over the years, from the early experiments th:at tarnished his reputation, thro11ghthe battle to build the world\s most powerful AIDS Survey \ ducting the test will not know who provided the sample. The Healtb Department receives the location and identity of the facility. From that, they can s12e the amount of exposure within. a particular group. From the sample itself, researchers wi!l only be able to determine the gender and basic health of the pa-tient. The test pell'fonned on the samples will bef.or the presence of the mv (human im- munodeficiency virus infection) antibody, which indicates that the person has been exposed to the AIDS viriiS; according to Chottenfeld. Tile test does not necessarily indicate that the person has devEloped AIDS, she said. However\ mv in some people develops into AIDS. This testing cannot be used for diagnosis because of the double-.blind s~stem, but state and city health . departments provide free fJlV testing and counseling, whiell so far over 70,000 state residents have used. New York had 12,06Z reported cases of AIDS as of last August; over 10,000 we~e in New York City. accelerator and the detector to go with it, through the 'Work that eventually led to the highest award in science. The picture of Rubbia that dominates the first half of the book is not a very flattering one. In the book, Rubbia is described as \a high- energy physics animal,\ \a political being,\ and \a com- plete disaster\ by those who_ have worked with him. He appears,as a man driven by the need to be the first to discover and to recieve credit for the physics, even at the risk of being wrong. None of this is to deny the streak of brilliance that even his critics acknowledge. To write his book, Taubes interviewed Rubbia himself, the research scientists wbo have worked on his ex- periments, and the leading figures in the field of high • energy physics. He has also spent considerable time at the most famous of Rubbia's ex- periments getting a first-hand look at how the research was · carried ()Ut. In the second half of his book he gives a first-han(! view of how things can go wronli in such an. obessive en- vironment. Because of Rubbia' s stubborn insistence on leadinll aU others in his field data from his experiments were in· terpreted as confirming certaill \fashiopable\ theories that would herald a new era , in physics. Theoretical physicists who were certain that their theories were too beautiful to ~ wrong believed the rumors spread by Rubbia, and Willingly jumped on the bandwagon. Dozens of papers were published in the physics jotll\- nals before the reports of new phystcs were finally discredited. The author has done a good job of making the issues in- telligible to a reader who is willing to put up with some of the technical jargon; much of which is sununarized in a three page glossary. I find thisbook to be a fascinating collection of the kinds of stories physicists tell among themselves that most people never get to hear. Profile: Professors Baksay and Magahiz Receive NSF Grant The National Science Foundation has awarded a $70,000 grant to two Union College professors, Laszlo Baksay and Richard Magahiz, to support research in ex- perimental high energy physics. The research will take place b<Jth at Union and at one of the accelerators at the European Center for Nuclear Re~earch (CERN) in Geneva, SWitz:erland. The grant is the first stage of funding for the project by NSF which is expected to encompas~ an additional tw(b.years and a total of approximately $320,000. The setting for the research at an undergraduate college is uniq11e in the field ,of high energy physics. Virtually all other lligh energy physics groups in this country rely on large numbers of graduate students to do the work of producing such complicated pieces of equipment. Professors . Bak.say and Magahiz are training undergraduates to m: this role, providing them witl skills that will benefit t Jwn should thry decide to gf) nn t ,. graduate school. Professors Baksm· an<! Magahiz will be dr·n~ lop in~ essential calibration and monitoring systems for th~ massive L3 detector at CERN. In this project they are part of a collaboration of physicists of some thirteen nations and over thirty institutions. The 1976 Nobel laureate Samuel C.C. Ting of MIT heads the collaboration. Union College will provide support for the project in a. number of ways. including computer access, technica~l assistance, and laboratory facilities. Some of the prese11t high energy physics research work by professors Baksay and Magahiz is being funded by a Research Corporation grmt from earlier this year. •. l ..

.. B.ig .~ _ .. - ... · .. ·_ . ,' ' - ' : ,. . . .-, t.~ ' .- ' ' - - $ ' . ,C·Ience ibe q~esti«>n now ·U~· w~ther: •b,is lnonster' · is worth it. $4 Ron. R~aga~ made :another· 1iilli!l.n; isn't :that much f!); wben one of tJu'll!e grandiose speeches . · ~p~parecJ to our fiscal y~r '87 a while ago, ·attemptin~, · I '<llefieit of$1M biUion,-$290 tlillion pref$umed, t9 dl~,iipe~ · .trlS ·lame ])C)l),.7 several hundred IJillion ·duck imt~,_ge_ by .giving ~eric.a d«llla;r social $ecntity prosr\am~ anothergoaltq·~rive·for. IntJie. ·, ~Jld . especially our- titanic speecb I~m re(etring to .he said · . ~.Eato.ly few hundred. i)illion we were committe4 t~ .building dc>Uat intereat payment ()n our the Sup·ercoriducting .super- ~2.5trillion1otaldeficlt (!).'This collider~. To som~, tltis brought is.flle ~am~ ludicroU!J a~:gtm.ent back shades of other grandiose made to tbe.$~urityandSa'fety speeches ptomising· a .giant officer w)je:it a $50 traffic ii(ket · Space ·Station in orbit by 1982 is compare.Clto the college's $30 and making nuclear · missiles ~illion' · e-nd~wment oUl' $15 obsQlete ·With Star Wars· by tbe th~lp.laD4 in tilition. end of tbe twentieth. century Btlt what about the natl~n's (both conve.rrlently long a£terh~ S,oeience budget? NASA'~ total leaves office:). Congress may b<-udget is- abollt $10 biUi.oll,. witb actuanybe;conmcedtheSSCis ~cnly $1.5 billion in. $pace a workable idea, . bowever scji.ence ... The National. S«:lence whether they ~pprove of an F't>\ll'ldation budget is $2:1lillioJ} adrninistl'~ti.on propOsal Qi' ·not ·· &;1mo~t, and the Deparument ()f seems to be dependent oR how ID11etgy, . which .. woUld,. Ollerate mu,cn.itcost~ (andcot;tsequently tile SSCif it was ·built, (loe~'t n~duces .. wnat they c~ spend on ~~t more than '$5-billion a: year .. their O.Wll' ·coll$tttuents}. The .&o Co~gres$ is -~faced With \Somehow I Wtl8 hoping genetic engineering would take a different tum.\ S$C · iS supposed to cost $4 autlloriz.\ng a :project. tilat is billion, .. the station $32' billion,. \l'ildlY ou.t of the ~.orm.al range ~d:SDI $60.to UOOO pillion, so 'f«Jt scienee .'in this c~1111try ............ --\-----.....-.- ....... ---- ....... .----------------------------• the SSCis,averitablebarg::dnas Otber big facilities· in ·ather \ far as ·flashy big science goes~ e:ountries, CERN for enrople m , . Book Recommendation: Of course, the, · D'efense - l!:lll'ope, was jointly fun!l_eci by · · Department won't be able to get Switzerland and France. · involved in it. {right?) so the [fm in no position to judge the \B· ·1· .·d Am·b· . \G H. h .. T h ··•·· .. tn\·.··· .. ··.·······ltlon .oes•·· .. tg ·.ec• money w.Ulhav~ to come out of sdentiFj:e efficienCY.· of 1 any of . the rest of the budget .. AlSo, the·· tllese gi&antic projects. Ill :fact, · SSC . will have . to be built I Sllpport them all, believing. tne somewhere in the lJ.S., which !lloney spe11t will generatE· ~ood. By.:PROFESSOR. RICHARD MAGAillZ · Physics Department means everyone will want it in s:cience that. will · eventually _their district of their· state. The f:ilt¢r down . into society as. a · station and star wars orbit over \1Vhole, jllSt like the space Sh()ts · '\N!)bel Dreams: Power, Deceit, and the Ultimate Ex- periment.\ Gaty Taubes, Random H()use, 1986,261 pp. everyone e qua 11 y ()f the sixties did. We must .face (theoretically) so no <me r-eality and the G-R la\V and benefits (at least, that must be determine whether- such. large ,how .congr.ess understand$ it), scale, pl'\1jects are feasibt1ao, PHYSICS :UNI 00 ())UEGE Nov, 5 \The Arrow oi :Fime and Irreversible Physio~l f»re>ceues\ Professor M. J. Zenzen, 0Epa.rtrnentof PMosophy .. Professor H. B. Hollinger, D apartment of Chemistry, .Rensselaer Polytechnic lnslitute NQTE f?LAC.E::.College Center Al.lditorium Money, ~eeQ, cutthroat competition, · · - in~ernatjonal politics, blotched_ cover ups - they are . all in this book. The subj~ct is n()t a scandal on Wall Street, nor mi:scondt.tet in high places in government, nor Hollywood, but what is commonly referred .. to as \pme science,\ the business of basic research. What ''The DoUble HeliX\ was to molecular biology, \Nobel . Dreams 11 is to high-energy particle phyisics~ · The· action centers around the career of Carlo Rubbia and the v~rious projects he has headed over the years, from the early experiments that tarnished his reputation, through the battle to build the worl<l.'s· most powerful NYS Health Dept. to Begin AIDS Survey by U.A.VID GULLIVER :st'lldy will belp prepare state Editot·in·Chief . llealth senii.ces for the eJqJected ~reate:r volume o£ AIDS cases resting of 100,000, state , ill the futUI\e. \You ean't wait residents' anonymously drawn 11t1til you have people that need blood samples for exposure tO· tCare and then not have the AIDS began this month at the :mechanism ready for them/' Wadsworth Laboratory on the 1Slie said. ''Right now, we're Concourse of the Empire State \W()rk:ing with purely st'lrtistical Plaza, the Department of lJ!:'Ojecti'ons, '·' whereas the Health announced. \testing would provide a better, The testing will indicate how mol'e factual base to .project the much and what distribution of :f11ture nlliilber and tY]les of the state population 1\as been ~Cases. exposed to the AIDS virus. The In addition to taking samples study ·will use blood samples irom hospitals and clini-cs, the collected routinely at hospitals, ~t.udy will use blood coUeded at clinics and health facilities :family planning, TB, and statewide. Theealth Depart· ~ex:ually transmitted disease ment is C()ntacting those l()linics, drug tre~tment facilities and arranging to have programs, and samples .from samples sent to Albany. illfants at hereditary discrder Tlie. $3.4 million pr()gram, :Jcret;ni!Jgs and inmates' !)rison · which the department claimS is .admisslonpllysicals. the largest of its ldnd yet for The testing guar!Uitees AIDSln the cotJiltl')', $hould be .anonymity through a cllJuble- completed .in six months. Ac• · blind system often us~ in. cording to Health Department ~xperiments. When the bloo<l is $ll0kesperson Faith Chot- <Collected, it bears the paii.ent '$ tenfeld, a large part of that identity and otber infortllStion. budget is for hiring additiOIJ&l , .B11t the patient's idea1lty is teebnioians to· conduct tbe removed before . tlie salliPle is testing:. ·· · given to the Health .Depart- ... Cbottenfeld··· iid.d tbat· the ment,. so researchers .con· - \ ducting the test will not know who provided the sample. The Health Department receives the location and identity of the facility. From that, they can see the amount of exposure within a particular group. Frorn the sample itself, researchers will only be able to determine the gender and basic health of the patient. The test p;i!tformed on the samples will be for the presence of the HIV (human iro- munodeficiency virus infection) antibody, which indicates that the person has been exposed to the AIDS viru.s; according to Ch()ttenfeld. The test does not necessadly. indicate that the person has developed AIDS, .she said. However, mv in some people develops.int<i AIDS. Tbis testing carmot be used for diagnosis beeause of the do11ble-.blind system; but state an(l city healtll departments. proVide free HrV testing and counseling, which so far over 'lO;OOOstate resideats have used. New York. had 12,062 reported cases of .AIDS as of last August; over 10;.000 were in New Vorlt City. accelerator and the detector to go with it, through.the·work that eventu~lly led to the highest award in science. The picture of Rubbia that dominates the first half of the book is not a very flattering ()ne. In the book, Rubbia is described as \a high· energy physics animal,'' ·~a political: being,\ ~nd ''a com- plete disaster\ by those who_ have worked with .him. . He appears as a man driven by the need to be the first to discover and to recieve credit ·for the physics, even at the r'isk of being wrong. None of this i.s to deny the streak of brilliance that even his critics acknowledge. To write his book, Taubes intertiewed Rubbia himself, the research scientists who have worked on his ex- periments, . and the leading figures in the field of high - energy physics. He has also spent considerable time at the most famotls of Rubbia's ex- periments getting a first-hand look at how the research was . · carried out. In the second half of his bo.()k he gives a first-hand yiew of bow things can go wrong m such an. obessive en- vironmellt. Because of Rubbia's stubborn insistence on leading all others .iii his field data from his experiments were in- terpreted as confirming certain \fasbil)llable\ theories that would herald a new era · in physics. Theoretical physicists who wer-e certain that their theories were too beautiful to be wrong believed the rwnors spread by Rubbia, and willingly jumped on the bandwagon. Dozens of papers were published in the physics jour- nals before the reports of new phystcs were· finally discredited. 1rhe author has done a good job of making the issues in· teUigible to a reader who is willing to put up with some of the technical jargon, much of whicb is summarized in a three ,page glossary. I find this'-book to be a fascinating collection of the kinds of stories physicists tell among tllemselves that most people never g~t to hear. Profile: Professors Baksay and Magahiz Receive NSF Grant The National Science Foundation has awarded a $70,000 grant to two Union College professors, Laszlo Baksay and Richard Magahiz. to support research in ex- . perimental high energy physics. The research will take place b()th at Union and at one of the accelerators at the European Center for Nuclear Research C CERN) in Geneva Switzerland. ' The grant is the first stage of funding for the project by NSF, which is expected to encompass an additional tw~years and a total of approximately $320,000. The $ettil1g for the r.esearch at an undergraduate college is unique in the field _of high energy J?hJ~Sics. Virtually all other high energy physics groups in this country rely on laJ:ge numbers of graduate students ~ do the work .of produc~ such conaplicated pieces of eqliipment. Professors . Baksay ao.d MagabiZ are training undergraduates to fill this role, providing theih wi~h skills that will benefit tht'm should they decide to g~'~ on t0 graduate school. Professors Baksay and Magahiz will be. d('vrlopin~ essential ralibratidtl :!nd monitoring systems for the massive L3 detector at CERN. In this project they are part of a collab()ration of physicists of some tl:li.rteen nations and ovet: thirty institutions. The 1976 Nobel laureate Samuel C.C. Ting ()f MIT heads thE collabtJration. Union College will provide support for the pJ\oject in a nwnber of ways. inclutllilg computer access, technical assistance, and laboratory facilitiEs. Scme of the present high energy physics research work by professors Baksay and Magabiz is being funded by a Resear,elt . Corpo!'ation grant from earlier tJlis year. • l

I. Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, November 5, 1987 Talent Show Caps Theatre Fest '81 ByJOYCYBUL The First Annual All-Campus Talent Show took place last Sunday night in Memorial . Chapel. Five judges scored all acts on originality, showmanship, and en- tertainment. Tbe first act was · fresbman Jason Broome on the guitar. He sang the song 'Flowers in Love' while he played. The secondact was Tim Wynes, another freshman. He won third place (bookstore gift certificate) for his comedy act. His outfit surely played a part of his fine act~ tliX with gold tie, gold cumberbund, gold high tops, and Hawaiian shorts. The next act was Dwight Pierre, tap-dancer, another freshman. He won second place (two tickets to. Proctor's) wjtb his performance. All acts were introduced by Mark Webster and Michelle Martto, better known as Pat and Vanna. Freshman David Kohl sang and played two songs which he wrote himself on the piano. The first was entitled 'No More Tears,' and the second was 'Love-Long Distance.' The second song was dedicated to those in the audience with someone at another .school or back home. Jim Ostrove played the guitar and sang. He did his rendition of the Al Jolson song 'Rock-a .. bye Baby with a Dixie. Melodie.' Craig Summers performed his own in- \ terpretation of one of Pulitzer- Prize winner . Gwendolyn Brooks' .poems. This won Craig first place, which was $100 in cash. Ed Stevens did a comedy routine, then Andy Gonsales.' finished .off the show with three original pieces on the piano. Congratulatioll$ to all per- formers for a great show! Arts Happenings ON CAMPUS ... FILM ... \C.hildren of a Lesser God~\ Fri., Sat., & Sun. at 7, 9, 11 pm. Tickets $1, at CC Auditorium. CABARET ... Thurs., Nov. 5 at 10 pm ~t the CC Auditorium. Admission Free. MUSIC ... Friday, Nov. 6, concert with North-South Consonance cbamber ensemble. Featuring music by Hilary Tamm and Max Lifchitz. Admission is Free, at Performing Arts Studio in Arts Building. FILM ... Woody Allen's \Bananas.\ Tues. at 7, 9, 11 pm .. Admission $1, at CC Auditorium. OFF CAMPUS ... PROCfOR;S ... Ben Vereen on Thurs .• Nov. 5 at 8 pm. Tickets are $22, $18, & $13. WRUC NEW 8.97 The New 8.97 is a weekly compilation of the most frequently played records ()n the turntables of WRUC. The audio version may be heard Tuesday nights at 9:30 with \Fast\ ED at the controls. In this week's episode: North Carolinais The Connells achieved the highest rank with The D!lkes of Stratospear (a.d.a. XTC) in a close second. The Distyrbed are the underdogs of the week (no connection to the DJ) by defeating the likes of power house R.E.M. and former champions The Smiths. Here are· the results: No. _Band l The Connells 2 Dukes of Stratowhear 3 Dead Milkmen 4 Balancing Act 5 Mighty Lemon Drops 6 · 10,000 Maniacs 7 _ Screaming Trees '8 . Mercy Seat 8.97 · The DistmbOO Top Adds Daddy in his Deep Sleep Uncle Green P.f02fammin~ Notes Album Label Boylan Heights Psonic Psunspot Bucky Fellini 3 Squares and aRoof Out of HaneL In :My Tribe _ Even if and Especially When: TVT Geffen Enigma Primitive Man Sire Elektpt SST Slash Sleazetome The Mercy Seat Totalled Volvo Adventur~ Pick Long Mter Lunch WRUC swings full force into full schedule this week. \Static to Study By\ is even further reduced. Stuck here for Thanksgiving. weekend? Consider yourself lucky! The·WRUC Marathon Show with \Fast\ ED will grace the Schenectady airwaves during that weekend. So, stay up and study for 36 hours straight as \F.\ ED gees nuts for you! Catch all the exciting action of eacll and every football and hockey game as the Dutchmen Sports Network presents trhe play-by-play. Only on 89.7 FM, WRUC. : Classical Guitarist to Appear .at Union By BIFF HENDERSON Classic~l gu~tarist Lily Afshar will be performing a benefit concert at Memorial Chapel on Saturday November 14th. All procedes from the concert will go to The Union College Choir's 'Foreign Tour Fund' from whcih tours of Canada and Great Britian are likely. Ms. Afsher is currently a fellowship student at Florida State . University working towards her D.M.A. degree in Guitar Performance. In 1986 Ms. Afshar was one of twelve guitarists wh_O- were selected to play for Maestro Andres Sergovia and she has performed· widely throughout North America and Europe. Saturday's performance will include solos of works by Mozart Bach and Werner Henze and a possible duet with Professor Hugh Alan Wilson playing the Harpsichord. Tickets are available for $5 ticket booth at the CC and will also be available at the door on the night of perfonnance - Saturday November 14th at 8:00 pm, Memorial Chapel. ~...;;;:;:. =· ~~-$< ARTS & FILMS C()medy .n,.o of Abrams and · Anderson Coming tO' ·campus The comedy team of Abrams & Anderson will be performing on Friday, November 13 at 8:00 p.m. in the College Center Atrium. Their specialty is impr()visational comedy - a fun blend of voluntary audiem:;e suggestions and quick-witted perf()rmers. \The more challenging the suggestions, the morecreativethe humor,'' says Tom Anderson. Abrams & Anderson use the audience to create off-beat scenes by playfully fielding suggestions for TV shows, historical chal\acters current events, etc. Armed with this input . and chal\ged by their sharp wits, the duo act out an amazing..array of characters and dlspla'y an uncanny ability to play off each other. Abrams & Anderson have been delighting audiences in the USA and Canada since 1979. They enjoy performing over 150 dates a year including trade shows, comedy clubs and colleges. They bave appeared on \Entertainment Tonight\ Boston's \Evening Magazine\ and several specials for New England public television. When they are no.t en the road being funny they live in Por• tland, Maine. The Social Alternatives Corilmittee will. hold a pizza dinner before t}:Je Show, all are welcome. Tickets ~ordinner and the show are $UO, and Will be available starting on ·Monday, November 9;· rn front of the College Center. W ~ look for- ward to seeing you there. Camp Hollywood needs_a ROBIN lEACtl sound-alike Please call x6953 or x6893 for more inf.o PRIZE AWARDfDI \Sorry but I'm toing to ~e to ~ssu.e you o sum11Uins [or reckless p-iimmar fl.fUi . JrWifJg Without an apostrophe.' , --- \':\ .THE WRITING CENTER

) CONCORDlENSIS, November 5, 1987 Page 13 ~.······~·· ...... ::· . . ,.. - ·~··· .. ... . . WRUC~il R,ECORD REVI_EW ByCHIAPET BQyian Heights by the Connells on TVT Records and Video . Not many small guitar based bands that release polyvinyl chlol'ide slabs (i.e recordS) these> days· concentrate much on the quality of. the vocals. As a matter of fact, many of these bands look for a scru.ffled, scraggly drone only to fill the . .. ...... g.aps between j;munirt' guitar riffs. However this is not the case for The Connells, a five piece band from .North Carolina. On the contrary, the vocals. seem to .l>e the central element of the band's sound. Boylan Heights is their second release. TQ.e best example of the vocal dexterity of this band is in \S<:otty's Lament,\ the first song on side one. The subtle yet ''The ~assion of Ayn Rand'' By LEE ANN SCHMIDT ~ditor.;in..Chief Alice Rosenbaum (later to be known as Ayn Rand) grew up in Russia during the terror of the Communist Revolution; a time when her . family became im- poverished and starvation was not liDCommon to her. An in• tensive account of her life. is delivered by Barbara Branden in \Tb.e Pa$sion ofAyn RamV' F()r nineteen years Branden was one of Ayn Rand's closest -friends and colleagues. Her involvement _in Rand's life allowed Branden to report the progress of_ this incredible author in remarkable de4ill. The l>iograpby _ begins by ex- ploring Rand's formative years, depicting her·· isolated life as a child and the influence of this part of her life on her writing and her philosophies. It narrates -Rand's flight from Russia to America. It was upon inunigration into this country that she changed her .name from Alice Rosenbaum to Ay-n Rand. \Rand\ was a name she picked up from the brand name on her typewriter, pne of the few· possessions she brouf!ht With her. Following a chronological progression, Branden describes the birth and development of several of Rand~s more· ,popular novels, including \The Fountainhead,\ .and_ \Atlas S}ll'ugged.\ Rand began each work with a philosophical premise~ then developed characters to .sup- port this concept, and finally labored over tb.e plot, planning out each minute detail. After many years of work Aynhad to convinc~ pubUsners to accept her radical right wing theories. Once this was done, yet another battle occurred. Throughout her life Rand bad to fight to pre~erve her manus~pts _ in their pure form,. untarmshed by closd-minded editors. Ayn Rand won. Her books have sold more than twenty million copies, and her philosophies have had a powerful and continuing in- fluenceon our culture. Braden's biography af Rand 1 published by Doubleday, is a must for Rand enthusiasts. THE MUSIC COMPANY ORCHESTRA 11nd . BALLET REGENT pre~ent a benefit performance for LITERACY VOLUNTEERS OF SCHENEC;I' ADY THEM ' ., OF ~BALLET~ . A·GALA FOR F AMILIESI 3:00 PM, Sunday, November 15 at Proctor's Theatre 432 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 Femlring Hans Christian. AndeliCit ~~ \'l'lle Lillie Mall:h Girl\ An original full·letlgth IMIIet Cho_reoar•phy by ~~ Steele Wlilie by Emory Waters ' Reserved T~eket,s: SiO AdUlts, $5 Children• IU1d IJellior.> A vait.bic at Procaor'a Box Oftaee 346-G04, Community Box OffiCe~, Ill subu~ CArl COIIIJ*lY ~. ind Dn~me Sound . G\\'p Tickets: 355-l'l?l. Ha!Wlicapp:d Acceuiblc prominent tenor voice of vocalist Doug MacMillan seems to be the top layer of an in- strumental base constructed of the ringing (\jangilling 1f you will) guitars of Mike Connell and George Huntly (who oc• casionally · adds a touch of keyboards), and a solid rhythm section of drummer Peele Wimberly and bassb;t DaVid Connell. With backing vocals by Mike and production work by mastennind Mitch Easter (producer of ~Y a fine Americmt band), the final result is a deep picture of contrasts and complements overshadowed by a haunting theme that makes one feel .happy {and very haPPY at that). And.so it goes with most of the other songs on the album: lyrically, ·on the sad/depressing side; vocally, haunting; . in- strumentally; powerful; Aristophanes' \The Birds'' at Th,e Nott By GAIL BLUMENFELD The Union College Depart- ment of the Arts will be presenting Aristophanes ''The Birds\ on November 12-14 and November 17-21. No, this is not the stage vetsion of the Hit- . chcock film of the same name. This is a lavish play which presents a Utopia of ;birds ac- ting as a buffer between the gods and humans. - · The 35 member cast of men and wornen will move around the stage on a specially con- structed cast•iron grid. Director Barry Smith describes the setting as \a stage set for a glittery gam~ show, with every bit of paraphernalia one coUld add to impose falseness on what was once a pure environment.\ With music composed by Tom Ross combining rock; pop and strange .instruments, and Mrican dancing choreographed by Eddy Remy, the birds en- vironment is both unrealistic and extravagant. The action in the play is not heavy drama which is sometimes associated with the Greek plays. Rather, the play , will- be presented in a lively, almost slapstick manner. Director Smith sees the play as a metaphor foccontemporary society, in which the quest for a Utopia results in ridiculous-and dangerous situations. Tickets are $5.00 general and $3.00 students. They are available at the Nott Memorial. Theater Box Office by calling 370-6150, or they can be pur- chased at the door. For more information, call the Arts Dep~rtment at 370-62016. ARTS & FILMS Hock group \The Conne!ls\ overall~ly, incredible. If you ever had· the ex~ perience of attending a funeral on a clear, crisp. late autumn day at about noon, yet .smiled and felt cheery all the way through it, then you will probably enjoy this record for the same reasons I do. If yo11 haven't had this pleasure, you will still enjoy tl'iis album, just for a more tasteful reason. Arts Briefs The Pasquier Trio at UnioJJ, On Saturday, November7, the Pasquier Trio of Paris will perform at '3 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. The Trio is in · the United States on its first · American to:ur. Shigenori Kudo, the Japanese flute virtuoso, will be joining tbe trio in this all Mozart program. The concert will be the fourth production of the 1987~88 Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series. Tickets are $8 for adults and $4 for st11dents and can be purchased at the door, Com- munity Box Offices, Palace Theatre and Schenectady Museum. For more information call372-3651 (evenings). Biloxi Blues at University of Albany NeilSimon's Biloxi Blues will be presented on November 13-15 and 18-21 at the Main Theatre of the University of Albany P&rforming Arts Center. The play is presented by State U11iversity Theatre and will be directed by Albert Asermely. This will be the first large-stage area. production of the Tony Award 'winning comedy. All shvws begin at 8 p.m. and ad .. mission is $6 for adUlts and $4 f()r students and senior citizens. Tickets will be available at the door or for reservations call422- 3997. RPI Players present 'The Adding Machine' Elmer Rice's 'The Adding Machine' will be presented by the RPI Players on November 13-14 and 19-21. The Players will celebr~te their 58th season with this comedy-drama. 'The ADDing Machine' is the \story of a man's struggle with his own uaimportance.\ The play begins at 8. p.m. and tickets are $4. For reservations call the Playhouse at 276-6503. Homecoming T-Shirts size larg~ and extra large still available at the Alumni Office in Lamont House. Monday-Friday from 8:30am-4:30pm. These are heavyweight 100o/o cotton, preshrunk and best of all these shirts were made in the good old USA. On.ly $3.00 CRBRRET THURSDAY, 10:00 NOU. PM 5 COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM MELANIE 6' diM MASTERSON OSTROIJE FREE. RDMISSION

Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS, November 5, 1987 By ELIZABETH BERLINER This week, Union is fortunate ·to welcome Nora Sayre, a well renowned film critic for the New York 'fimes and a teacher at Columbia University· since 1981. She iS also the auth()r of s.everal novels including \Sixties Going on Seventies'' and \Running Time: Films of the Cold War.\ Ms. Saylle, a native New Yorker, began writing directly out of college for the New Statesman, a weekly publication in England dealing with politics and art. At the tjme, she w:as also reading American novels for MGM and reveiwing a series of American books. • In the late 60's, she became a correspondent for New Statesman in New York City. The inner turmoil of that period of American history was reflected in the literature,. and much of what she encountered dealt with the controversy of Wiiversity strikes, the battle for civil ·rights, and the women's movement. Reviewing books for the New York Tlines is indeed a very complicated ta!!k based on a large preliminary reading staff and weekly discussion meetings. that establish recom- mendations for both material and reviewers. Under normal circumstijpces, the reviewer will then receive 3-4 weeks to process a review, though there are urgent times when it has been done in a week. However, the aspect of criticizing someone else's work makes it difficult within itself. After all, the fatal words of a reviewer not only affect the artist's pride and self-esteem, but can make or break a career. · First and foremost, Ms. Sayre will never review a work of a friend because friendship is not worth the price of an honest review. This rule holds true when discussing books, film, or theater. She will also never leave a theater production in mid-act because \that does terrible dama&e to the ac- 3 tors ... they can feel it.\ With a chuckle she added, \That's what intermissions are for.\ Many people expect reviewers to place personal preferences aside when reviewing a work. However, when questioned on the source of her objectivity, she quickly responded \the old fashioned concept of objectivity went right out the window.'' All writers have to admit ... that we all have a point of view. If we adrnit that it frees us up. to be honest.~' After all, ti1e ·whole purpose of a review is to inform the public regarding the nature and quality of the work., and they deserve no less than the truth, even if honesty may damage the artis~. As M11. Sayre stated, \If you tbink it's ghastly, you can say that.\ Ms. Sayre's last event at Union will be M~erva Hour, Thursday at 11 in the .College Center Auditoriwn at which she will speak on \Writing of Memoirs: A Portrait ()f En- mund Wilson.\ THIS WEEK'S ON CAMPUS MOVIES . CHILDREN Of A LESSER GOD ... Excellent performances by William Hurt (Oscar Nominee) and Marlee Matlin (Oscar winner) highlight this sensitive drama. Hurt portrays a teacher of deaf children who struggles to teach, and eventually falls in love with the beautiful Matlin. Rated R. Fri., Sat., & Sun., at 7, 9, & 11 p.m. BANANA'S ... One of Woody Allen's funniest films. Concerns the misadventures of one Fielding Mellish (Allen), who accidentally become~ the president of a South American country. Look for Howard Cosell, Sylvester Stallone, and the classic \snakebite\ scene. Rated PG. Tues., at 7, 9 & 11 p.m. . All tickets are $1 for Union students with I D. All showings are at the ~College Center Auditorium. Please, no food or beverage. ARTS&FILMS ~-I ~,i~f a~ \\a Buddy at the Mo.vie·s ByJ.L.G. \Baby BOQrn\ Starring Diane Keaton and Sam Shepard · ·Directed-by Charles Sheyer At Mohawk and Crossgates MallCinemas · Rat-edPG . Diane Keaton a- corporate shark? In Baby Boom, Keaton plays the .role of cold driven career woman J. C. Wiatt. All ·.:JC'.s energy is ·geared to . climbing tbe corporate ladder. · . Her life is centered .around. w9rk until she is saddled with · · her recently deceased cousb;l's · toddler, Baby Elizabeth. . Gradually J Baby Elizabeth, · 1 :played by twins l{ristina and Michelle Kennedy, breaks ·through JC's stoic exterior and tips her biological clock. . . As JC adjusts to motherhood her life changes drastically. Her live.iin significant other, Harold Ramis, shQns the arrival of a third roommate and immediately moves . out. It is clear their relationship was based purely on their mutual desir'e to succeed on Wall Street and not much else. Tllis is apparent by the love making scene when the couple begins at 11:47 and finishes by the time the digital clock displays 11:49. Next, JC steps down completely from the corporate ladder. Motherhood then takes JC and Baby Elizabeth out of their sterile New York City apart- meqt to a huge farm house ill rural Vermont. Diane Keaton discards her- business attire and acquirEs that country look siinilar to hEir- usual Annie Hall style that we are all accustomed to. At first,. Mother and Daughter· find theit country life is not at .all whafit's . cracked up tQ be when a h.uge snow storm reveals their new home'S many faults. -Life dOE$ pick up-, though, when JCstarls making homemade baby fool while snowbound. JC. markets ~he· baby food,. falls in love W,:tll the local veterinarian {Sam; Shepard);· and .she and Baby- Elizabeth live happily evEr\ after. T~e movie was enhanced by the .fact I could ·view the entiie film without slouching ·in ll'lY s~;,tt while covering my eyes 41 contrast to the recent slew of suspence thrillers I ha'Ve viewed (\Suspect/' \Fatal Attraction~\ and \No Man's Land.\) \Baby Boom\ is ·a typical formula movie whi~h can be placed under the theme \You can have it all.\ JC adores motherhood, moves. to the country, makes it big in t:he baby food 'business-, and falls in love. What more could she ask for. The movie is predictable and at best can . be label~d \cute.\ Film Grade c. _ Abrams arid Anderson at Union Colle e mg o 1mprov1sa ona come y s ow a ge s everyone involved ... and the laughs are guaranteed. Open to All Students ... Pizza & Soda served with the faculty. Admission is $3.00 _ friday, November 13, 1987 7:00 Pizza 8;00 Show In the College Center Atrium Tickets will go on sale at the College Center. S onsored b the Social Aitern~tives Committee Crossgates Mall Cinema 83.lf~· @[JU OD(B. !fT\Jfffl$ 7b 1he AIR · [ R •v• U..eR C oo~Sl1i141>' J ; 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Dirty Dancing Suspect The Hidden Fatal Attraction Death Wish IV Hiding Out Prince of Darkness Baby Boom Less Than Zero Hello Again Princess Bride Fatal Beauty 2:05, 4:35, 7:50, 10:25 1:25, 4:30, 7:25, 10:15 1:20, 4:25, 7:30, 10:05 12:40. 3:45, 7:00 J 9:55 2:15,4:45, 7:20, 10:00 1 :00, 4:00, 7:.15, 9:40 1 :50, 4:20, 7:35, 1 0:20 12:30, 3:10, 6:50, 9:35 1 :35, 4:10, 6:45, 9:20 1 :20, 4:05, 6:40, 9:15 1:10, 3:40, 6:25, 9:05 12:50, 3:25, 6:15, 8:55 ifr----:~ ~~fA (_ 9) ~Fri. & Sat ONLY 12:30 12:35 12:05 12:25 12:05 . 11:50 12:35 11:45 11:40 11:25 11:15 11 :15 l01S aF 6/veMBSl fv~r«mi 7-2- A./fJ .. ·. '

CONCORDIE.NSJS, No_ve·mb~r S, 1987 Page 15 Karen Sapio, assistant Protestant Ch~plain. and Sr. Jo-an Vlaun 0. P. Catholic Q.haplain will address: ;'Contemporary Issues for Women in The Church'' Full & Part-time Sales Positions in beautiful flower shop needed immediately and during ·Christmas break ~ l<lr the!r respective .faiths at a Womert's. Commission Meeting Please call November 16, at 1.2:45p~m.:iln HU 119 . Emil Nagengast Florist Albany a 434-1125 ·Far A ·Li>m.ited Time ·Get A Free Pitc:her O·f Coke· With Every Large 'Pizza. ·Try Us- Yo:u'H Like Us!· Dutch Hollow Restaurant Mon,day ~htu Thursday Even~ings! , Call your mlUlll1ly. _ · You remember. She was · always there when you were frightened. And if you got burt, . she was standing by with bari:\ · dages. Wouldn't it feel good to t;llk to yqur motheragain righ.t now.? . · Calling over AT&T Long · Distance Service probably costs less than you think, too. And if you have any questions abo:ut AT&T rates or service, a customer service repre- sentative is always standing by to talk to you. Just call 1800 222-0300. Sl'tre; your schoolwork and your friends keep you busy. But call home and .find out what she's wrapped up in. AT&T T.he right choi·ce. ' .:l·._ '517 Van Vranken Ave· · 374-5193 DRY CLEANING 'AND TAILORING Dr. Thomas Kein From . General El.ectrlc's Research and Development Center Will Be Speaking On \The Engineering Applications Of Superconductivity\ . . -..: ' - ~ ~ · .. _ . : .. ~· . , ·~r , on ,·wetr:, ~. ·: . . ., ' No11ember, 11 At 8:00 P. M. 111 Hu 115 • The Social Science Statistical Lab Will Be _Offering Seminars In Several Di.fferent Statistical Packages. Sign-Up Sheets Will Be Posted On The Door Of The Statistical Lab- SS001 Nov. 8, 10, i2-TSP. Citibase. Valveline. Nov. 9- SAS, Minilab Nov. 11- SSPS ·' ''

L Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, November 5, 1987 CLASSIFIEDS Typing done for students or faculty. Please contact 372-3589 after 5:30 p.m. $10 - $660 weekly-up mailin~ circulars~ Rush self-addressed steampeci envelope Dept. AN- 7CC-F A, 9300 Wilshire, Suite 47, Beverly Hills,. CA 90212. SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS Hotel or Restaurant · Management, On Saturday, November 7, from 10 am-3· pm, · at the Grand Hyatt New York, , representatives from a . variety . of the Hotels will be available to di.~cuss career and internship The AmeFican Field Semvice . ·. opportWlities. For more in- (AFS), a11 organization ·. fom1ation; contact the CDC. dedicated to intercultural SKI JACKET for sale! Alpine Designs, GOOSE·.OOWN, worn only once (got !Another jacket). Khaki-tan, originally $110, willingtotake even $40. Athena, x:4084. learning thxough worldwide The Couortium for Graduate exchange ]Jrograms, is spo~- . Study in Management an- soring num.e:rous internsbl'P .. nounces its annual minority positions. Al;Jplicants should be. MBA fellowship program. familiar V~L1ll research and · · Minority candidates qualifying · · a d tni n is t r-at i v e work · · for ac:hnission at a consortium Application deadline: .school are automatically November 8, 1987. . considered for a merit-based Homeworkers wanted! Top pay! C.l., 121 24th Ave., N.W. Suite 222, Norman, Oklahoma 73069. Sharp, clean cut and am- bitious. Does this describe you? Our company has a full·t~e opening in our new 'local off1~e to · get· telephone orders m Capital District. Earn $1;200 monthly and dependable vehicle needed. Call Mr. O'Brien 756-3191 or apply in person at 33 Main St., Ravena, N.Y. Part Time - Home Mailing Program! Excellent income. Details, send sell-addressed, stamped enyelope. West, Box 5877, llillside, NJ 07205. TYPISTS--Hundreds weekly at home! Write: P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066. Leaf removal £ervice requires student help . f?r baggmg leaves. Contac) DaVl.d Mazzar~la ~t ~99·390a. _ R~te of. P ay~;OO-fu:.: ... ··:· :···· .... :- , . . . For ·Sale: '82 VW Rabbit. Power steering. 5 on the floor. Garnet color, call 372-7227. P-T or F-T Sales, in warehouse or jewelry dept. Rate $3.55 potential $4.80 Flex. brs. AM, PM, Weekends -Work till end of Jan. - reply Con- sumers Dist., Scott, Store Mgr. 393-3700. Typing done for students or faculty. Please contact 372-3477 after 5:30p.m. Location· Uppr. Union. ChinaaJapam Services { CJS) and the NatiQnal Search (NIS) are two Waslli.ngton D.C. base<l firms that specialize in \in· ternational jobs,\ and a database llf more than 15,000 internships md swnmer jobs. For more information, contact · the CDC. Overseas internships are . . available tbrough the Peace . Corps and Campus Compact. This progTam is designed so that undergraduate students can not ·ortlr provide short-time service in ~l <teveloping country, but also provide valuable assistance to the Peace Corps staff in the sixty-two coontries in which th~y serve. More in· · formation available upon request at the CDC. · fellowship that provides tuition, fees, and a stipend of $3,000 for the first year of study ($2,000 for the second year). For more information and. applications please check the Financial Aid bulletin board, first floor Becker Ball. . Application deadline is February 1, 1988. The Alba-.y Soroptimist Club announces the competition for its annual Training Award· of $300 for a woman aged 30 or more who plans to er1ter or return to paid employment. The TAP A~ard is for full or part- Lawren«!& ll~tspital and Sarah Lawrence c.nege are offering a Pre-MEO+Healthcare Pr<J- · gram that involves summer fieldwork f()r college students interestecl in careers in. . medicine md othel' healthcare · · fields. Applicati:an:s due: ·April,' · 1, 1988. The Alnerican-8candinaviBu Foundatiom provides in- ternational work opportunities for· interested students majoring in enginee~ing. Application deadllne: Decem bel' 15, 1987. The (!()n1ress of the United States, E()use of Represen- tatives is looking for students interested. in working for Congressman .Ho~ard . L. Berman (26th District; Calif.) as an iniern. The internships would be '(ll:erical and legislative Part-timers to do board operating work at WNY J Radio . , Station weekendS - Will tra!n, Hrs .. 6A..:Noon, Noon-6P, nud- 6AM Sat. & Sun., $5.5()-}lr. Please contact 869-4400. orientatecl. -Applications due : December 1, 1987. Hyatt B11tels and Resorts are looking for students. frC>m ~11 majors, wbo have an mterest m · . . . · . : annual competition ft»r ~· $1,000 time education or trarnmg to · · awarci .to ·assist a mature improve job prospec~s. · woman in obtaining ~training Applicants must show finanmal '' and entry or re-entry into the need, a specific goal, and a labor market. To be eligible a clear plan for reaching that woman: must ·be the single Mad goal. Application deadline is . of a· 'b.<~usehold, show financial Dec~mber 5; 1987. For ~ore need, be enrolled in \Vocation~l information and applicatlQnS · or teclmical trainillg or be contact: Marilyn Wiles, · complEting an undergraduate . AlERT, 31 ChapelSt~, Albany, degree, and be a resl((ent of ·. NY12210(463~2661). TheAI.bany Schenectady Coun.ty. .. winner will be automat~cally Application ~eadlirte is considered lor a Regtonal Decernl>~r 15, 1987. For more . award of $2,000. information and applications The Planetary Soeiety an· nounces competition for . five $1,000 awards to .. c~lle~e · students who are m~Jormg m engineering or science. A~ards : will be made on the bas1s of . scholastic achievement, a commitment to a career in planetary tela ted science, and a written essay on a relevant topic. For mC)re informatiln and applications consult the · Financial 1\.id Bulletin board, first floor Becker Hall. Application deadline is Apri115, 1988. Soroptomist lntema1ional .of Schenectady, ~'Y announces tts contad: J. Dillenback, 314 Fourth St., S_cotia, NY 12302. The Union College Phi Beta Kappa Chapter ·would like to annoUilce that mode$! financial help is available to students on the btUifl of merit and need for the prarpose of defraying costs necess!lryfor carry~g out their, own scllolarly res13arch. The Chapter has set aside a fund in the a[]lount of $500.00 and ·Will suppo~ individual projects to. a maximnm of .approximately • $50;00 e~ch. Please see Professor Kellenter (Modei!Il La!lguages, HU Ul) and submit a brief writte11 request. . 8-e#otJJ I PJ!? qcf(tS5 1fle ffcotvt, HiS· .eyes sf( R tl Mi FIJIR IYJnf/)tll. · · A/,(j)W . eef/uT?F()c, rtv;V6 woMAW - Hi> tiP.€ ~<: OIVt( fa-~· · H-e A~/1€5 f{f;1( AN[) Si1YS· · IY)e /0 fl?o-,ec-r you ( Jt fJJrrH A1 r GflV Bfi[E. · ,1'. • • • \ n p 7 Il p ( ] . ·•

~age 16 CLASSIFIEDS Typing done for studemts or faculty. Please contact 3'2~589 after 5:30 p.m. $10- $660 weekly-up mailing circulars. Bush self-addressed steamped envelope Dept. AN• 7CC-F A, 9300 Wilshire, Sllite 47, Beverly Hills, CA 90212. SKI JACKET for sale! . A.lpine Designs, GOOSE-DOWN', worn only once (got ~nother j.ack'Et). Khaki-tan, originally $110, willing to take even $40. Athen~. x4084. Homeworkers wanted! Top pay! C.I., 121 24th Ave~, ~;W. Suite 222, Norman, Oklalloma 73069. Sharp, clean cut and am- bitious. Does this describe you? Our company has a f'llll·time opening in our new local office ' to get ·· telephone ordel's in Capital District. Eam $1,200 monthly and depe!ld:able vehicle needed. Call Mr. O'Brien 756-3191 or a]lply in person at 33 Main St., Eavena, N.Y. Part 'rime - Home Mailing Program! Excellent illc()me. Details, send self-adclr'essed, stamped envelope. West; Box 5877, Hillside, NJ 07•. TYPISTs-Hundreds weekly at home! Write: P.O. Box 1'1, Clark, NJ 07066. Leaf removal service requires student hElp for bagging leaves. Conta<:t David Mazz;Ire~. at 399-3@3.. \Hl;l\e 9f pay $5.0~J:ir.-~ . · , · -; \' : · . ·. · .-- For Sale: '82 VW Rabbit. Power steering. 5 on the floor. Garnet color, call 372-~'$27. P-T or F-T SR!les, in warehouse or jeweli'r dept. Rate $3.55 potential $1.!10 Flex. brs. AM, PM, Weekenc:ls • Work till end of Jan. - r(l!})ly Con- sumers Dist., Scott, Store Mgr. 393-3700. Typing done for st11clents or faculty. Please contaet 372-3477 after 5:30p.m. Locatioll· Uppr. Union. CONCORDIENSIS, November S, 1987 SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS The American Field Service ( AFS), an organization declicated to intercultural learning thr()ugh worldwide exchange pilograms, is spon- soring numer()us internship positions. Applicants should be familiar with research and administrative work. Application deadline: November 8, 1987. China-Japan Services (CJS) and the National Search (NIS) · are two Washington D.C. based · . firms that specialize in \in- ternational jobs,\ and a · database of more than 15,000 internships and summer jobs. · For more information, contact the CDC. Overseas internships are av~ilable through the Peace C(}rps and Campus Compact. This program is designed so that undergraduate students can not ·only provide short-time service in a developing country, b11t also pr()vide valuable assistance to the Peaee Corps staff in the sixty-two countries in which they serve. More in- formation available upon request at the CDC. Lawrence Hospital and Sarah Lawrence College are offering a Pre-MED+ Healthcare Pro- gram that involves summer fieldwork for college students interested in careers in medicine and other healthcare Hotel or Restaurant time educatiOJ Management, On Saturday, improve jo November 7, from 10 am-3 pm, Applicants mu, at the Grand Hyatt New York, need, a speci representatives from a variety- clear plan fo of the Hotels Will be available b goal. ~pplica1 discuss career and intemsbiJ) December 5, opportunities. For more in· information c . formation, contact the CDC. contact: M ALERT,. 31 Ch The Consortium for Gradude NY 12210 (463-~ Study ln Management a11• winner will t nounces its annual minorit1 ' considered f · MBA. fellow~hip pro~ra.m. 1 award of $2,00 Minority candidates qualifying · for admission at a consortium The Planet school are a.utomatically nounces .com] considered for a merit-based $1,000 awar fellowship that provides tuitioil, student~ who fees, and a stipend ·of $3,000 for engineering 01 the first year of study ($2,000 :for will be made the second year). For m.,re scholastic ~ information and applicati()n;s commitment please check the FinanCial Aid planetary rela bulletin board, first fl()Ol' written essa3 Becker Hall. . Applicati:oll topic. For mm deadline is February 1, 19IUI. applications Financial Aic The Albany Soroptimist Ciuib first floor announces the competition f01r Application d• its annual Training Award .of 1988. $300 for a woman aged 30· ()f more who plans to enter ()f return to paid employment. Tile TAP A~ard is for full or part• Soroptomis1 Schenectady, · fields. Applicati&ns :due:· April.' , 1, 1988. The American-scandinavian Founda1ion provides in- ternational work opportunities for· interested students majoring in engineering. Application deadline: December 15, 1987. Part-timers to !lo board operating work at wr~rJ Ra~o . Station weekends - Will tram, Hrs. 6A.-Noon, Noon-6F ~ nlid- &AM Sat. & Sun., ~.50-br. Please contact 869-Mm. The Congress of the United S1ates, House of Represen- tatives is looking for students interested in working for Congressman Howard L. Berman (26th District; Calif.) as an intern. The internships would be clerical and legislative (}rientated. -Applications due: December 1, 1987. Hyatt Hotels and Resorts are looking for students from all majors, wh() have an interest in ..._ 8-ef/OU) I (of( fJC/((1.;5 1/fe ~M. HIS· .eyp<; 5P/ A Bf{/UTfF{/~ }it!N6 WOMA~ . ~ r/i5 tiFt Is 0#~( SCt!lGR. H~ Af{fitirf!es Hef( AND SAYS·· 0 tl M'l Fflrfl fYIR/{)ti! .. · Auotv me 1o f}(btecr yo(/ 1}1/rlf A~Jr 6!1V mre/

.. CLUB NEWS Folk Group+ All sing~rs an.d musicians interested in being part ofthe MusicMinistry at tbe 7:30 p.m. Sun4ay Liturgy may meet with FI'iar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. German ''Kaffeehaus ' 1 · sponsored by the German Club T~esday,· November 1~,. 8 p.m., College Center 302. . . Please come to ()ur first \Coffeehouse.\ We'll show off ' our talents in short skits, recitations, and songs. Participants and audience will also enjoy homemade cookies baked by Susanne Lemmer and other enthusiasts of German cuisine. Come and join~' even if your German is rusty or you are s.till a beginner. It will be a fun evenin.g for alll Mel'Wn Tapes 1988 will makr the 2oth anniverSary of Thomas Merton's death. An;r member ()f the Union Commuil.ity who , wishes to listen to and discuss one <Jf the Merton Tapes Fridays from no.on t~ one is invited to bring a brown bag luncheon to Sr. Joan\s Office 404B The College. Center. First meeting Friday; November 6. Oxfam · America-Demons- trate your concern for the world's hungry. Skip 11. meal, or fast for a day, and donate Yllut food money to· Oxfam Amer~ea to. fund self-help Dtil]~d;s aJid disaster relief- in -the· Third World. Hunger and (»verty are - not inevitable. Together, we can make a difference. Si.gn up for those on meal plans will take place Wednesday, November 11 · and Thursday, November 12 during lunch and dillller. Cash donations or checks to Oldam America will be accepted the day of the Fast, 'l'hursday, November 19 at the Skellar and Dutch \Hollow Restaurant from students, faculty and staff. Polish Variety Sh•w-Union students are invited to the Cabaret. Tuesday evening, November 10 at 7:30p.m. in St. John's Schcml Aud.itoriwn to help pbin -the PariSh Variety Showi,nFebruary. There will be entertainment and refresh- ments and the parish is eager to include Union's talent in this tribute to Father English. Solo Drl\matist Corging- Roberta Nobleman~ actress, teacher, author and spirited pilgrim, will. 1 appear at the Dominican Retreat House, 1945 Onion Street, on N()vember 9tb at 7:30p.m. Roberta will .por· tray four characters as she performs \All That 1 Am,\ a play by Irene Mahoney. In her performance she will highlight the lives of four women and their intimate relationships with the male clergy in their lives. Each -of her monologues wUlinclude the use of props and costumes. Tickets are $10 but student discoWltS are available through Sr. Joan 371»-6087. The Newman Club will attend as a group in place of tile weekly meeting. Tutorial Program--Union College students can be tJsed in tile following areas at St. John the EvangeliSt S<!hool: Kin- dergarten Aides, Comp11ter Math Aides, Library Aides .and Math and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contad Kristin Nelson, 3116-4364. CONCORDJENSIS, Noveml1er 5, 1987 Page 17 PERSONALS term? ... No inore Irish De1nthialyn posters on sale now diapers yo.u bibysitting Catholics! at the .bookstore. Come get · machine. MW!ing you from y()urs. Expensive, but worth it. amund the corner. BMS- Clean your ri)Om!! / Congrats, Lar.!. \lt's not that way, it\s ~v~r . - here!\ Thanks for a great show! -RG ·Thanks to Jean, Karen, · Michelle, Don, Kim~ and • everyone else who helped make . ''why Nott?\ a success! Same· time; next fall (let 1 s ·nopel) - . RG . Superberta- Twenty-one years of . ' being everything to everybody! N()w you're legal and dangeroul!! · Loveya,D Red--- Are your batteries still · JB- charged or what? Happy 21st! l Watch out Rita- Happy belated 21st! -MAD Rochelle-- Happy 21st babes Love, UJS1 Big Lar, Congrats on the Phi Pelt bid you animal. The Boser Rebellion is spreading. . The Millster Ron Chain my man, congrats on the bid ... I'm psyched we will be bro's. Stench- Your bud Voodoo N.Y.G.! -NEG Happy birthday Karl Love NEG Happy birthday Mark Webster. \We love you Webby\ -Lazar w. . R.I.A.-N~d two (2) quarters? Anything for a friend! 'To my favorite photographers- ! believe it's 99.9 percent. :Bird Have you watched Sesame . ~treet lately? To the sisters of oo- What were you at D-Phi? A Thanks for a great • football player ora blackboard? Jean Beatty, you're a wonderful P.R. person. Thanks for your bard work for Theatre Fest. Halloween! Y()U guys are· awesome:! The Pledges Bert-Just wait, one more month and then all thr~ of us can be together! Happy Birthday Roberta! ! Ashley- You're awesome too you know! Even if it's not your birthday, I love ya!l -D Delta Gamma- You guys are the most . thoughtful, supportive friends · Thank you for being you! D.L. lan - Kappa Beta Alpha • A. B'ert-Thanks for \pleasing the Beej'' this weekend for me. Ash-, Happy 21st earlyl Bert, I wish we could celebrate. in the beer hut. Aval, rna allasote! Ash- Bert ...... Only 4 more days 'till you're a gr()wn·up! can't wait. Love, Ash. ' Mesilla Sue-I'll try and keep the club bag clean tonight - Btlffy James-Let's not have another repeat of last .Thursday night, tonight unless the roles are reversed -Me SR- What are you goiUla d<> next Pledgelings- One night down-two m()re to go. Got . your maps of ~chenectady ready? Yoll might need them. You never know ... - The House Ruth- What were y()U at 0-Hhi? ... I didn't recognize you!! t'8 l How long is it now? Almost 1 months? Cave-- What's a matter didn't they take .showers ~ck in tbe st{)ne age?; Dina, Mole, ~aj and Bin- denberg, We'd like a 5-6 page report on Steak and Eggs ·or as much as you i'emember ... IJ-6 words! . Pi Alpha, Hope you had asmucb fun as we did, trick or treating. PC-Great job Oil the RetrEat. . Love, the sisters To two thirds of the Triplets: Thanks for understandJng and being there. You mean more to me than you know. Rallla F- l'm so happy that the RR track is clear now. L Love you Morty, Corny, Jimbo, & Chris. You guys rure MF Great! Canon who are you? Please co!lfess now. I gave him up to C. Is that hers or is it really mine? 'fe> CMB & JBT-Nice party! It was \awesome\ --Sincerely, Scoop & Pedro & Maria Josepha WH-8ay hi to Helen and the broc::coli trees. Send pictures. Cc:lngratulations to the new AAA pledges! Love your sisters in Japan, Kim and Leslie Melissa-one day late happy birthday-I managed to get ol'ganized long enough to do · tbls. Can you believe Wl Love, · Jen T.he sisters and pledges of Gamma Phi Beta would like to thank the sisters and pledges of Tri Delta for ari awesome party. We had a great time!!! Guys varsity soccer: Thanks for a great seasoB! Love from Ute groupies-Marni, Jacqueline. Courtney & Leslie L.auri- Bippo Birdie Two Ewe 1 Love, the old 3rd floor Rich- mond gang G Phi B. pledges get psyched. We are! We love you all! Love, the sisters. P.S. Look out - big sister is t ~l.:- . Ill wa I.;'IJJ.ug you ••. Bey Sparky, Think Hasenfuss · rou rebel. Time to change the '~I CAN.T FINt> GJNSB\JRG~S Pl\IN\S ANYWHERe. ' 1 . \ Voodoo Robert, Put y()ur arms around · me and we tumble to the ground andthen you slly ... I think we're alo11e nowl HeeHeeHee. · · Love~ Lina Ken and Joel,. Here's your personal! When's our wedding? · Your devoted wife, Lina Beta Class-We are so proud of you,. you guys .are the best! We an had lots of fun this weekend and we're lookillg forward to many wild: times. Keep up the spirit; it's incredible! Love in PICE. The sisters of Ganuna Phi Beta .. Demthial':yn posters available-Limited supply, Co11tact box 1!63 with a blank cheek. · · · To my other ltalf: Even thougll we ditched the costume (only to dance on stage, of course! ) we'll never be separated! D~thialyn forever. Hey you guys- I saw you an in Victoria Secrets and I tllink it has to stop! I'm- scared for anotber fun night out 011 this campus! W.L. T ., We have been very bad lately. Keep it up (excuse the pun). Thanks, for making my fan tenn get wanner as the weather got C()lder. Love, L.B. • S Bro~ers-What is one to do if one is one of two? What if one was you? To you a clue. Deja vu? -A 'Ladi' Webby- Happy birthday - again. Brother Sue-Congrat11lations on bec()ming the wildest DG ple()ge. Do you think I can wear the letters too. I prefer lingerie. Love,Sherm RoCJm 211: 01) you thin][ this weekend migl:tt be better? F. Rizzo-The moon orbits the earth every 27.32 days keeping the same face. Cn rare occasion it cannot be seen because it is the same color as the sky. This is lmown as a blue moon. Don't bother setting your watch; it will be obvious if it's. there, if it's there! ProE. Andrew Miller, Tllanks sweetlleartl When are yollr office hours? Lina Melissa-Missing you from West! Come visitl LoveLina ~~ :!. This ·week the Film Com- mittee presents: Cblldren of 11 Lesser God, 11-6, 11·'7, 11-8 at 7 pm, 9 pm~ l1 pm an II Ballanaa, 11-Hl at 7 pm, 9 pm, llpm. .CRUI'SE SHIPS NOW IIIRiMG. MIF Summer & career opportunities (will train), o~ecellent pa'Y plus world travel. Hawaii, Sahan~as. Caribbeor1, etc. c.1 HoWJ 21MP736-0715 ht.I.MF

1987 time education or training to improve job pr'().spec~s. Applicants must show fmancu11 need, a specific goal, and a clear plan for reacb:ing that goal. ~pplication d~adline is December 5, 1987. For more :; information and al!plicati'?ns contact: MarilYil Wiles, ALERT,. 31 Chapel St,. Albany, NY 12210 (463·2661). Tile Albany winner will be .aut~matically considered for a ·Begional 1 award of $2,000. ! The Planetary SCJeiety an~ nounces .competiti()n for five $1,000 awards to , c?lle~e students who are ma.Jormg m engineering or science. A ~ards will be made on tile bas1s of scholastic achiev~ment, a commitment to a eareer in planetary related science, and a written essay on a. relevant topic. FDr more inforiilatiln and applications CollSUlt the Financial Aid BullEtin board, first floor Becker Hall. Application deadline is Aprill5, 1988. e Soroptomist Intel\1l;ltional of Schenectady, NY allll'()UDces its :-· --- •. \\\$- ~ - . annual competition for a $1;000 ·. award to assist a mature woman in obtaining training and entry or re-entry into the labor market. To be eligible a woman must be the single head of a household, show financial need, be enrolled in vocational or technical training or be completing an undergraduate degree, and be a resident of Schenectady . County. . Application deadline is. · . December 15, 1987. For more · infotmation and applications contact: J. Dillenback, 314 Fourth St., ~cotia, NY 12302. The l)nion College Phi Beta Kappa Chapter would llk.e to announce that Inodest finanCial · help is available to students on the basis of merit and :need for the purpose of defraying cos~s necessar~for carryipg out tne1r. own scholarly research. The Chapter has set asi4e a fund Yt the amount of $500.00 and Will suppox:t; individual projects to a maximum of approximately . $50.00 each. Please see Professor Kellenter (Modern Languages, HU 211) and submit a brief written request. 0 CLUB NEWS PERSONALS BMS- Clean your room! ! Congrats, Lar! CONCORDIENSISJ November 5, 1987 term? ... No more Irish CatholiC!s ! .Red- D~mthialyn,poster: at the bookstore. yours. Expensive, Are your batteries still : JB- charged or what? Happy 21st!! N.Y.C.! Rita- Happy 'belated 21st! Folk Gro11p+All singers and musicians mterested in being part of the M:U$ic Ministry at the 7:30p.m. Sunday Liturgy may meet w.ith Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. \It's not that way, it's over · - here!\ -MAD Happy birthday K German \Kaffeehaus\ sponsored by the German Club Tuesday, November 10, 8 p;m., College Center 302. . Please come to our first \Coffeehouse.\ We'll show off · our talents in short .skits, recitations, and songs. Participants and audience will also enjoy homemade cookies baked by Susanne Lemmer and other enthusiasts of German cuisine, . Come and join u.s, even if YOl;ll' German is rllsty or you are .still a beginner. It will be a fun eve~g for all! Mertom Tapes 1988 will makr the 2oth anniversary of TQ.omas Merton's,death. AnY: member of the Union Community who wishes to listen to and discuss one of the Merton Tapes Fridays from noon tQ one is invited to bring a brown bag luncheon to Sr. Joan~s Office 404B 'l\'he College Cent.er. First meeting Friday, November 6. Oxfam ·-America-Demons- trate your concern for the world's hungry. Skip a meal, or fast for a daY, and donate your food money to O:xfam America to. func:l self-help proie¢$ _ap,l:l disaster relief- in -the' Third World. Hunger and poverty are ~ not inevitable. Together, we can malte a differ~nce. Sign up for · those on meal plans will take place Wednesday, November 11 and Thursday, November 12 during lunch and dinner. Cash donations ()r checks to Oxfam America will be accepted the day of the Fast, Thursday, November 19 at the Skellar and Dutch \Honow Restaurant from students,. faculty and staff. Polish Variety Show-Union students are invited to the Cabaret Tuesday evening,· NovemberlO at 7:30p.m. in St. John's School Auditorium to help plan the PariSh Variety ShowinFebruary. There will be entertainment and refresh· ments and the parish is eager to include Union's talent in this tribute to Father English. Solo Dr~ntatist CoJQ.ing- Roberta Nobleman, actress, teacher, author and spirited pilgrim; will: appear at the Dominican Retreat House, 1945 Union Street, on Nc;>vember 9th at 7:30 p.m. Roberta will por- tray four characters as she performs \All That I Am,\ a play by Irene Mahoney; In her performance she will highli~t the lives of four women and their intimate relationships with the male clergy in their lives. Each -of her monologues will include the use of ptQps and costumes. Tickets are $10 but student discotints are available through sr~ Joan 370-6087. The Newman Club will attend as a group in place of the weekly meeting. Tutorial Program-Union College students can be tlsed in the following areas at St. Jo!m the Evangelist School: Km· dergarten Aides, Computer Math Aides, Library Aides and Math and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Kristin Nelson, sm-4364. Thanks for a great show! · Rochelle- -RG Happy 21st babes ·Thanks to Jean, Karen, Michelle, Don, Kim, and everyone else who helped make \why Nott?\ a success! Same time, next fall (let's Jl()pe!) - RG Superberta....:Twenty-one years of . being everything to . everybody! Now you\re legal and dangerous! J,.oveya,D To the ,sisters of 00- Thanks for a great Halloween! You guys are · awesome! The Pledges Bert---Just wait, one more month and then all three of us can be together! Sappy Birthday Roberta! I Ashley- You're awesome too you.· lmow! Even. if it's n()t your birthday, I love ya! ! -D Delta Gamma- You guys are the most thoughtful, supportive .friends • Thank you for being you! ~ . D.L •. · Ian - Kappa Beta Alpha • A. Bert-Thanks for \pleasing the Beej\ this weekend for me. Ash-. Happy 21st early! Bert, I wish we could celebrate in the beer hut. Aval, ma allasote! Ash- Love, 1051 Big Lar, Congrats on .the Phi Delt bid you animal. The Boser Rebelli()n is spreading. The Millster Ron Chain my man, ~ongrats on the bid.,.I'm psyched we will be bro's. Yourb11d Voodoo Stench~ . What were you at D-Phi? A footbaUplayeror a blackboard? Pledgelings- One night down__;two more to go. Got your maps of ~chenectady ready? You might needtllem. You never know ... - The House Ruth- What were you at D-Hhi? .. .I didn't recognize you! ! t'8 1 How long is it now? Abnost 7 months? Cave-- What's a matter didn't they talte .~bowers tmck in the .stone age?· • Dina, Mole, Taj and Hin- denberg, We-'d like a 5-6 .page report on Steak and Eggs • or as much as you remember ... 5-6 words! Pi Alpha, Hope you had as much fun as we did, trick or treating. Bert-=- Only 4 more days 'till · you're a grown-up! Can't wait. PC-Great job on the Retreat. Love, Ash. _ . · . Love, the sisters .. Mesilla Sue--l'll try and keep the club bag clean tonight - Buffy James-Let's not have anotber repeat of last .Thursday night, tonight unless the roles are reversed -Me SR- What are you gonna do next To two thirds of the Triplets: Thanks for understanding and being there. You mean more to me than you know. Rallla F- I'm so happy that the RR track is clear now. L Love you Morty, Corny, Jimbo, & Cl!ris. You guys are MF Greatl ' . Happy birthday M \We love you Wet w. R.I.A.-Need two 1 Anything for a fd To my favorite phc I believe it's 99. Bird Have you . wat< Street lately? Jean Beatty, you'r P.R. persoa. Tha hard work for Thi Carson who are confess now. I gav' Is that hers, or is it To CMB & JBT-1 was ''awesome\ Scoop& Pedro & ~ VBH-Say hi to } brocc()li trees. S1 Congratlllations t<J pledges! Love yc Japan, Kim and I Melissa-One dal birthday-! man organized long E · this~ Can you beli Jen The sisters and Gamma Pbi Beta thank the sisters ~ Tri Delta for an av We had a great t1 Guys varsity so1 for a great seaso the groupit Jacqueline, Collli La uri- Hippo Birdie T· l.Dve, the old 3r mond gang G Phi B pledges We are! We love the sisters. P .S. Look out - watching you! ! ! Hey Sparky, Thi you rebel. Time ,, I CAN.T FIND 6JNS~'J~ G'S PRTN\S ANY WHERe.''

., Page 18 CONCORDIENSJS, November 5, 1987 Tennis '87: The Lady Dutchmen By AMYOLTCHICK and SCH.AltN ROBINSON The women's tennis team had many obsta~les to overcome this season. Ow· team was a young one. with some of the top players not returning because of graduating or participating _ in one of Union's term abroad programs. The veterans: Cynthia Pantazis (capt;), Sheri Weinstock (co-capt. ) 1 and Amy Oltchick belped: regroup this year's team and added more fire power to the Lady Dut- chmen. Furthennore, members of the team supported each other through every match. In fact, it was not uncommon for a player after completing her match to immediately .go over to another match to lend sup-- port to her fellow teammate. One of our top singles players was Sheri Weinstock, a second year varsit:v player. By hitting deep grotmd strokes from side to side she would get het op- ponent out of position thus enabling her to close off the point. Sheri also possessed two special tennis qualities- both patience . and good sport- manship. Moreover, Sheri also was both a. good winner and a good loser- always gracious in victory and defeat. As stated by coahc MeallS, \With a much improved forehand and moving to the net at the right times, she challenged and upset the confidnece of many opponents.'' Another veteran who led the team was Cynthia Pantazis, a three year player. Cyntbia was our most aggressive player always ll.sing her powerful strokes to overcome her op- ponents. Cynthia also dominated her opponents with the ability to change spins and pace during the match. In fact, it wasn't uncommon to find her finishing off an exchange of deep groUildstrokes by hitting a delicate drop shot. ller com- bination ()t powerful serves and volleying enabled her to produce a winning effort not only in singles but also with her doubles partner Sheri Wein- stock. As Coach Means states, \She d<Jes not make unforced errors and opponents were not happy when they lost matches by beatillg themselves.\ Amy ()ltchick, a three year player, also helped to contribute her efforts .to the Lady Dut- chmen. A solid baseliner, Amy would rely on her topspon forehand to close off points. Similar to Cynthia's aggressive style, Amy would combine her power with finesse- hitting deceiving drop shots at op- portUile moments and hitting topspin lobs over her bewildered opponent's face. As Coach Means states, \Amy's opponents feel that marathon running might be a gentler sport after she has finiShed with them.'' Amy played both singles and doubles. Ellen Beyda, a two year player, was our most improved player from last season. Ellen was our \John McEnroe\ of the net- wherever her opponents tried to pass her, Ellen was always there. Not only did she have good all around, court coverage but she also had the patience to withstand long rallies. As coach Means states, \She placed her volleys at will and was a real threat in doubles. play.\ Ellen played doubles and singles. Alysia Dashef could best be described by Coach Mean'S following statement, \Over the season she became an expert at rushing the net at doubles play. Her volleys found open spots or she zeroed in on her opponents; shoe tops. No onle liked to see a lob more than Alysia, as with whipping wrists she would move in.swiftly and zing it away for a winner.\ Emily Stenhouse also bad a fine season. As described by Coach Means she played in \Chris Everts fashion and liked to remain on the baseline and loop topspin forehands and backhands to the opponent's baseline daring them to do something foolish and. defeat themselves. Her mild looking serve was a 'wolf. wrapped in sheep clothing' as opponent after opponent proceeded to hit it out.\ Freshman Elissa Rosenzweig proved to be a great asset to the Lady Dutchmen throughout the season. Her ability to develop a game plan and execute it in order to win proved to all that she is a force to be reckoned with and will continue to be so in seasons to come. As Coach Means noted, ''Elissa has lots of topspin, the envy of many tennis players. She can wind up and send the ball high and deep, forcing her opponent into the fence. She wore her opponents down mentally, as well as with h·er offensive topspin. In doubles, she roamed the net, putting away sitters with crisp volleys.\ Julie Silberman, also a fresh· man, brought her game of patience and placement to the aid of the Lady Dutclunen. Julie, by consistently hitting the ball into her opponenVs weakness, would gain the upper hand in long rallies. Coach Means talked about Julie's game, ''JUlie, who also plays suqash 1 is a strategist. She takes the upper hand by moving the ball around, with a definite game plan in mind. She enjoys the net and is good at pouncing on floating balls putting them away with authority.\ Julie is expected to be a great asset in future seasons. The number one player f<Jr the Lady Dutchmen was also a newcomer, Scharn Robinson. The sophomore compensated for her lack of experience in college competition by executing a game of power, particularly aided by her topspin. forehand. Throughout the season, Scharn con- centrated on directing ber forehand to the weakness of the opponent. She used it as a· means together opponent out of position, opening the court for a winner. Coach Means com- mented on the game of the Nwnber One player, \Good tennis players ·all have one deadly weapon, and with Scharn. it is her whipping topo spin forehand. A sophomore playing at number one, she gave tennis her full com- mitment, practicing bardon her own and with the team. With the experience she gained at the tough number one spot, she w.pl be a bonus for the Union team during the next few years. Pam K ustas, also a sophomore, proved to be the most hardowrking member of the team. Very dedicated to the improvement of her game, she put in extra time, energy, and effort- gaining_ the respect . ofherfellowteammates. Pam'.s rapid improvement throughout the season was aided by her natural athletic ability. Her dedication was acknowledged by Coach Means, \Pam won the most improved player award. Her newness to- the game was compensated for by her con- centration, hard work, and extra .practice hours. At season's end, she was able to ke~p the ball deep, consistently and with pace, and was con- fident about coming to net for a winning volley.\ Robin Baskin, a sophomore, plays a mentally tough game of tennis. By concentrating on her own footwork and execution of strokes, she is unable to be out- psyched by any opponent. Coach Means counts Robin as one of her best strategists, \Robin has the fast, agile tennis footwork which enables her to set up and place the ball all over the court. She will shunt her opponent around like a good chess player.\ One of Lady Dutchmen's most energetic players is Michele Rosenthal. The promising fre·shman has aggressive ground strokes which force the opponent to hit weak and defensive shots. Coach Means believes Michele has a bright future in tennis, uMichele has admirable vigor and energy. She was one of the fastest on the team. All her Shots were for- cing. She can look forward to some good years ahead.\ Having a young team proved to be a struggle from the first match against Vassar to the last match against RPl. Although our overall record was 2-8, each member of the team gave their strongest effort dur~g each match. We are confident that next year's team will produce better results since most players will have gained the required experience and match toughness to overcome the Lady Dutchtnen~s current slump in past years' seasons. <!tnrtcnr.Oitnsis SPORTS And. a Good Time Was Had by All By TOM MU~ZONIGRO and,JOHNGOBRON <li.m.ension or plane .~J~f ex:isten~e. Much to their chagrin, the ruggers displayed a prowess Two weeke11d's ago, an during. the srimm.age wltie!ll unexp~cted t()rna·de . whipped baffled the linemen .and con- ''throUgh'' Itl1ac::a., NY. The fused the scrummers. storm began :t<> brew Wed- At 6:15, the Uni()n Roggers nesday night. .After a previous arrived at Pin~s practice in six-hour jourmey through force, proving tbeil\ natural Pennsylvania, lUngbamton and rugby talents far Ullurped those other regioiLs~ two Union of the Ithaca rug£ers. Beer, emissaries arrived at Itbaca's singing, merriment and women doorstep at'U:O~ a.m. abounded afterward, as the Their intenti()n': to meet with jolly :ruggers continued their the captains.,. players· and quest. That ni~llt, Union captain's girlfriend and discuss 1~uggers had run.;i.IJs. with every the Upcoming t()urnament. The aspect of Ithaca as lnuruillly gregarious Ithaca tournament. and extraterrestriall.Y possible. The gregariou. Ithaca players Two blonde rugge:r11 were ac- . welcomed the lJnion diplomats tually seen hovering high above with open arms amd full mugs. the .floor of tne Pi1us. One was Ithaca's amiabLe captain Brad seen doing winsprints, in an Heineken h~d already . effort to hone his rlttlning ability assembled a welcoming for the next day. 'Xhe .slow train committee ()f bodacious and his partner rehearsed hostesses to ei1SIU'e the safety -illegal blocks in anticipatiOil of and well being o:f the visiting a violent game. Inspired by the players. hoards of beautif-ul and willing Thrilled with the thought of a women many Uilion ruggers good night's .sleep, the Union were see,n filling out transfer Ruggets snored away in the forms. Matt and Dave were .so Arctic Tundra that is Ithaca, enthused that they deCided to NY. - · return the next weekend. Awakened b)' the tingling Owing that night many ruggers sensationoficiele formations on were stranded due to Pat their olfactpr)' organs, the Dicerbo'sjustifiaMe infatpation ruggers were me:xpectedly and with Ithaca Women.. unexplicably treated by their The next day t.egan with a c<Jnvival host'tlsses to· poached search for lost Union ruggers, eggs, burnt tCJast, cold orange last seen wanderi:ng aimlessly juice and warm siles. . about the town. TVi(). were f~und That aftern()on they. shaclded to one bost's bedposts scrummed witll, the Bombers, b · · · · h and carefully yet subtely in ern· arrassmg.posttions, \Vtt 1 d the foreign words NO NOT ana yze their· strengths .and EN1'ER and ONE WAY written weaknesses. Their mission that night: to on their globes .. Six of their study the opposing. ruggers faithful friends went and night habits ~nd habitats. Due retrieved them from their to their amiable dis- beautiful hosts. positions, the two lonely The games ·were violent ruggers wer>EJ welcomed that battles played ()n a pitched night with a greeting tin- terrain in the beau.tiful hills of matched in modern times. Buttermilk Park. The home Abandoned tllat · night by · team came out on fire .and teammates l'ibo would never quickly scored 12 points ill the show, the two ruggers searched first half. As tlleir hang<Jvers o11t and foun<l a multiplicity of subsided, the Union ruggers new friends in Ithaca. The two came back. late iii the game with loquacious ruggers were a few tries of tbefr own. The treated to a 1 plethora of shots first try was S~()red by John that night tllat resulted in a Gobron who picked up a loose state of inebriation physically ball and scampered 40 meters uncomparable. into the try zone. Minutes later Debilitated l>y their condition, Muzzy ran' from the fly balf and further llD!Lble to vocalize position all the Vlay to wing .and . their twisted, cloudy thoughts, then turned it upfield for tile ruggers abandoned con- another 40.nieter try. Chris versation a11<l began to move Sheridan and Pat Dicerl>o both towards other gathering places. converted numerous ptmalty Dislocated a!ld confused, the kicks· to keep Union's hopes two toppled, ~prawled and ' alive. Dave Austin in an un- nosedived in unison over and believable displ!ly of weakness Over a d asked to have himself taken out n over- ... They awoke that morning, of the intense game after spying ~nly in the seru~e of having their a beautifUl yowg lass on the. eyes opened and prepared to sidelines. He then lay prostrate welcome the iiJcoming ruggers. at her feet for the remainder of Tales wer.e aboWid, the next both games. day on the playing fields, when Despite aU, or perhaps, the Ithaca Bornbers feared that because of all, Union plans to their new-fotllld sidekicks had visit Ithaca again next year, if died and pas:sed on to a new they let us. . Women's X-Country Excels as Lee Qualifies for All State The Union Woman's cross- country team, led by senior Jenny lee, surprised several schools at the New York State meet last Saturday. Union finished 7th out of 18 teams .in the field, their best finish in . several years. Lee, rounding out a fine four year cross- country career, finished 14th in · the race and qualifying for All• State hClnors. She ran the 0000 meter race in 18:57, taking 30 secoods off her time from the previous week on the same Albany State course. Freshman Kara Merrill was the Lady Dutclunan's second finisher, coming across in 20:08 and finishing 42nd in the field of 106 competitors. Eileen Brady was a couple of steps behind Merill; as she finished 45th overall, just eight seconds behind Merrill. Freshman Lynette Neilsen also ran strongly, finishing 57th in 20:36, in only her second collegiate cross-country race. · Rounding out\ the small Union contigent were Jen Regan and Sherry Cargile,· who picked up 76th and, 80th place, running times of 21: 36 and 21: 50, respectively. The men's cross-country team alSo competed this weekend, though not nearly as successfully as the . women. Running on a somewhat soft course at the Schenectady Municipal Golf Course, Union dropped a 19-42 duel meet to Colgate University. Colgate took the top three places in the . five mile race, won by Andy Gerard in Z'7: 11. Union's top finisher, Jim LeBrou, was only 2 seconds away .from Gerard, but could onl;y manage a fourth .place finisll; as foUl' runners crossed the line in that span. Senior Steve Szy.dlik finisbed fifth overall and second for Union, nil1e seconds further back. Ullbn\s only other competitor· :m the top ten was Dave Defilippo, who was loth in 2&:Z9. Wayne K~tary and Dave Steen ran . stromg races for Union, finisbing14:th.and 16th in the race, with times of 23:&5 and 2!t:05J.respectively. The men will b~ hosting their state meet this Saturday over the same Schenectady Golf Course. The woman's team will have this week.4lnd off before joining the men's, team in Saratoga on N()vember 14 .for the NCAA qualif;yingmeet.

1 e s r f d. r s h y iS I• IS lt :g te :e )f s, to if n e If n d ir lr u lll re in ~r CONCORDIENSIS., November 5~ 1:98r Page 19 Athlete o:f th,e Wee:k By CHRIS HINCKLEY Sporis Editor The last meeting on the gridiron between Union and Williams College Qccurred last Saturday. Considering the problem of the Dutchmen squad to date; the Williams Ephmen were realistically looking t<> end it all with a victory. However, a victory .failed to materialize for them. Instead, the Dutchmen team of old too~ the field on Saturday and dealt Williams a traditional Union beating, 31·7. With the team back on tbe track the win seemed .easy and with the backfield producing yards, ~ the victory was assured. The -~ ~?; efforts of Parrell-Shepner(land o ,.,..,~!, ... , . .. ,, .. , ~# 1 m 1 i: Bryan Palumbo in the· backfield ti was the spark and explosion it that drove the Dutclunen to Darrell Shepherd victory. Therefore, this week, the Athlete of the Week award will take on a plural connotation ~nd be given to both Darrell Shepherd and Bryan Palumbo for their efforts on the gridiron . · •• the Dutchmen .of old took the field • • . and deait Williams a traditional beating. vs. Williams College. ~ Up until now both Shepherd 3: and Palumbo have failed to get o on track and as a result the ~· Dutchmen game plan switched :c almost totally to the air. ~ Shepherd, being the team's top ~ back, was only gaining 36 yards CJ per game and Palutnbo even ~ ···Jess. But·Saturdsy -was ·a dif- g- ~;,;;,.;o..., ferent story. Sbepherd gathered · ~ a career high 182 yards on 20 Bryan Palumbo carries and- Palumbo had 105 :yards on 14 carries giving both backs career days and a 287 :yard combined performance. With Saturday's performance; Shepherd raised his average per game to 5.7 yards . while Palumbo's is now 35.2. Although · these statistics seem W1im· pressive, you must remember that they include the totals from the years .previous games when the air attack was in effect and the offensive line . was han· dicapped with injuries. If the backfield stays on track and the team stays healthy the present statistics should rise to match 1he ability of the players. Darrell Shepherd is in his senior year at Union and majors in managerial economics. He hails from BUffalo, NY, where he attended Canisius High School. While playing ball at Canisius, Darrell was twice the All Catholic Conference running back. Bryan is a sophomore geology major and comes from Fall River,- MA. He attended Durfee High School and Choate . During Bryan'.s pre-college ·career, he gained notoriety by being named to the . Boston Globe and Boston Herald's All- Star teams. With Darrell finishing up his college career with style and Bryan coming on to the scene the Union College offense looks as though it will be well equipped for now and in the .future. Once again, congratulations to Darrell ShepJ:terd. an.d . Bryan Palumbo for a fme performance on Saturday and a sign of good t~gs to come. ... Norwich downs Union in final minutes The Skating (Fighting.?) D~tchrnen . By LARRY ROSEN'l11AL The theory that all pre-season hockey games are boring vvas quickly proven wrong last Saturday night when the Skating Dutchmen took to the ice against the Norwich University Cadets. Despite the 6-5loss, the Dutchmen showed a great deal of proxq.ise for the upcoming season, and for future seasons. The game was characterized by its hard-hitting and aggressive play, which resulted in many penaltiflB and a wild free-for-all at the end of the game. Before the altercation at the conclllSion of the game another incident occurred which resulted in the ejection of Union's Nelson Said and a Norwich player. Norwicb'S main source of offense came from senior Rick McCarthy who tallied twice in the first period, and ended the game with a total of four goals and one assist. The first goal occurred at 14:40 of the first period, when McCarthy received a pass twenty feet in front of sophomore goaltender Ron Kinghorn,_ and fired a low slap Shot to the right of the Union net-minder. Four minutes later, McCarthy struck again when he took a thirty-foot slapshot which flew over the fallen Kinghorn. There was some question as to whether the puck hit the post or if it actually did cross the red line, and the referee quickly decided on the latter. The second tally was the last shot which went past Kinghorn, who played extremely well in this pre-season opener. The Dutchmen mourited a quick comback at the beg~ of the second period, with tallies from freshmen John Mcintosh and Marke Spease. Mcintosh picked up the rebound of a shot from Gary Temush, and flipped the puck . over the. fallen Nor· wich goaltender. The second Union goal resUlted from a deflected shot from the stick of Mark Spease, which somehow ended up behind the shocked Norwich goalie. . At the halfway point of the game, Union head coach Charlie Morrison decided to replace·Kinghorn with another sophomore, Terry Rathwell. Although Rathwell allowed four goals, three of these occurred as the Dutchmen were short· handed. For the remainder of the game, he played wen, stopping sixteen of twenty Norwich shots. At 15:48 and 16:41 of the- second period, the Cadets put the puck past Rathwell, both times while on the power play~ While the Dutchmen were facetl with a two-man disadvantage~ Norwich's Harold Shaw skatetl out from behind the Union goal; and slid the puck behind Rath- well, who had been drawn away from the net. The fourth Nor- . wich goal occurred when the Dutchmen were at a one man disadvantage, as a loose puck in front ofthe net was picked up by Norwich's Ric)!; McCarthy, who shot it behind Rathwell. This was McCarthy's third goal of tbe night. By the end of the period, Union had been outshot 23~~ but were only down. by two goals. McCarthy scored his final tally when he opened the third ~ri:od scoring on a break-away at 7:56. Once again, Union started a comeback with goals by Gary Temush and Bill Sed~rgren:, within one minute of each other. 'I'hree minutes later, McCarthy again haunted the Dutchmen when he assisted on the sixth Norwich score. . The tension in Achille Rink mounted once again when, at 19:26 of the final stanza, Bill Snow pulled the Dutchmen to within one goal at 6-5. He recieved a pass from Scott Manely and fired a slapshot through a myriad of players, who1iad gathered in front of the Norwich net. The goal occurred after Rathwell had \been pulled by Coach Morrison in exchange for an extra attacker~ Unfor- tunately, the strategy did not cause lightning. to strike twice, as the Dutchmen's hope for a comeback victory ended with the final buzzer. However, the buzzer did not end the action. Dutchmen and Cadets gathered in the Norwich zone for the predictable con- clusion to a game marked by chippy play and bad blood. The melee lasted for approximately five minutes, and ended when the linesmen were able to control the players' tempers. One of the factors which decided the game was the number of Union penalties and ensuing Norwich scores. The Cadets were able to capitalize on three power•play situations and one delayed .penalty. The Dutchmen were also effective on the power play, scoring four times with the man advantage. Overall, Coach Morrison's team did show that they have the talent and desire to have a successful season. Hopefully, their hard-hitting and aggressive style of play will give the Dutchmen . a season filled with many wins. atnncnr~iensis SP·O RTS · By ZiMMERMAN Your head is pounding, your ears are attuned to the slightest so1.111d and your legs · are cramped from lying still for so long. You decide to make a run for a better vantage point. Immediately you are bom- barded with gun fire and a . distinct pain runs through your body. No, this is not Vietnam, this is The Survival Game . For some time now these simulated war games have been played throughout the cpuntry. It is as close to war as you can get without really killm.g someone. All of the warlike qualities are there, the clothing, the setting, the weapons and most of all the feeling you are not only hunting some~me, but are yourself being hunted as well. · During the past few weeks severa,l groups of people from Union have participated in this game. This. past weekend was n<J exception. Upon arrival at the site, the platoon of Union warriors were met by a motely crew of individuals that looked as if. they had not only been through Vietnam, but had ertioyed it to the fullest. When you first step out onto . the ~course yQur heart-is racing. Y ~u are sent into the middle of a very dence and rough jungle- type terrain with a kill or be killed feeling rampant through your head. Never before have you felt as hunted as you do now. The slightest \movement you make in any direction spurs a reaction. Once the initial scare and paranoia has worn off, however, you can begin to enjoy the game. This is when the fun begins. The game is played by two teams consisting of any number ofplayers but usually at least 10 participate on a team. Each person is equipped with a pistol and paint pellets which are the replacement for real bullets. Camouflage pants, shirts, and hats are the fashion norm. Some of the people even go so far as to make-up their faces. Tb.e rules of the game are quite simple: capture the other teams flag without getting killed (you are killed if you are hit anywhere on your body with a paint pellet.) Not .. ln the (Box ScOre ill Usually the .participants work in pairs. You'll have to· un- derstand my hesitation in using the word players for one simple reason. From the moment the game starts until the moment it ends, it is war. It is a matter of self-survival. Six, forty -five minute games are played during the course of a day. Due to the fact that you play the same team each time, you become familiar with your opponent. However ,each game brings out W1ique situations and involves different strategies. Getting shot is a bit traumatic .at first but as you realize that you are out for the remainder of the game the pain is im- mediately replaced by anger. With paint dripping down you go back to the safe station until the gaqte is over. The wound stings a bit ·but it is not ex- tremely painful. Covering the terrain is probably the toughest part of the game. There are many rocks, tx·ees and bushes. In addition, there is a fairly deep stream and two steep hills. Offensively, the game is quite exciting .. Trying to get across the entire piece of land without getting shot is tough enough. Yet once you get to the op- ponents' highly guarded flag, you still have to manage to get the flag and bring it all the way to your own side. Defensively, the game is even more exciting. Lying in wait for the opponent can be extremely fun as well as nerve wracking. There is no feeling like the one you get when you stand up right in front of someone and \kill\ them . The look on their face is worth .the price of admission. · If you haven't already tried the Survival Game you should with your floor, your friends or your fraternity or sorority. It's a great release for built up tension and aggression. If you've always wanted to know what combat is like and how people think in these type of situations this is the way to do it. But you'll never know unless you try it. The cost of a game ranges from $20-$25. This in· cludes admission, rental, and ammunition. So if you've want to try something new, play the Survival Game. S .... ···· ..... ··.··'\-- p-· o .. _._·r··--t·:·-. .·tiP>···.·.·.·· ... U ... · L~n1on Athletics

.•· . ' ·- •, Page 20 CONCQRDIENSIS, November $, 1987. ! ~ :r: u :c ~ CJ ~ 0 ~ 2 '·R:··· 0.. &,; f·:S'S~~%1\ Mike Gargiulo, in his start of the y·ear, Dutchmen to a 31-7 thrashing_ of Williams. ·:·,.,: ,·:l~tk'•:~ x. Union boot.ers drop heartbreaker to NovemberS, 1987 A GOod Old Fashioned BeDtilfgl ... Boaters tripped up by North Adams A Sour Note By ANDREW MILLER Sports Editor It was football, Dutchmen style. What a pleasure it was to sit back and watch the Union College football team beat up on the visiting Ephmen from Williams. In a season plagued by injuries and marked by inconsistencies, the Gridders 31-7 romp was oh, so sweet. The 100th anniversary of the Union-Wi.lij.ams rivalry was the last game the two teams would play in the forseeable future. Like many teams in the league, Williams will be dropping to the Small New England College Conference. Williams head coach Dick Farley wanted'to go out In style with a big win over nemesis Union in\ their final meeting. Unfortunately for the Ephmen the only thing they did was go down in defeat, sent back to Williamstown battere(i and bruised. Coming off last week's brUliant performance against Coast Guard, senior Mike Gargiulo· got the starting quarterback call f~m coa~h Al Bagnoli. With Jun Po1rier sidelined with a bruised back the decision to start Gargiulo was made easier. G~rgiulo had another superb outJng, going 9 for 12 on pass attempts, totalling 99 yards and- resulting in two touchdowns. '\But Gargiulo, last week's big story, h..ad to take a back seat to the elfQrts of Union's backfield. The day belonged to Darrell Sllepherd and Bryan Palumbo. 'rlle senior tailback and S()phomore fullback combined for 28~ yards and two scores. More importantly, the two c:ame up with big runs Qn key tl1ird down plays and later blroke open tbe game on an 80.. yrard Shepherd run. Tbe Dutchmen jumped all ()Ver Williams from the opening kickoff. Gargiulo drove the t•eam downfield and quickly p11shedthe ball into the end zone behind the strong running of Palwnbo. It would be a sign .of good things to come for tile sophomore who played the best game of his collegiate career. After a battle of p1mts, the Dutcl:unen were back on 1he move. Led by big Palurribo runs1 Union worked its way do\Vn to the Williams' 1& and waited for Gargiulo to do his thing. The senior signal caller avoided the rush, stepped up in the pocket and delivered a 1&- yard strike to the flanker Cecil Bright to put the Dutchmen up 1+0. Union was on the threshold of bloWing the game wide open in the second q1.1arter. From first and goal from the Williams 3, Union tried three thwarted over-the-top drives by a variety of backfield runners. The Eph- men closed down the line and forced the D11tchmen to ·settle for a field goaL With 2:46 ,left in the half Union fotilld themselves up 17-0. Williams roared back, fueled by the goal line stand, and drove 80 yards in 1 :25. The Ephmen picked on the left Side of the Union secondary. A pass in- terference can broaght Williams to the Dutchmen 13. One play later, Williams was to score their only t.d. of the gC\IIle on a 13-yard delay pass. The second half was all Union, as the fighting Dut- chmen took over the game and controlled the clock. A 10- minate, 91}-yard drive buried the Ephmen's cllances to get back in the .game. The gridders relentlessly drove the ball deep into Williams territory only to be pushed back time and again by countless penalties. At one point, the Dutchmen were a breath away from scoring. Holding and unsportsmen-like conduct calls · pushed Union back to the 36 where Gargiulo hit senior tight end Mark Stachowiak on the run. Stachowiak sbed two Ephmen tacklers and waltzed untouched into the end zone. With Union up, 24-7, and with most of tbe third quarter eaten up, Williams' hopes for a comeback were fading fast. . By CARL R. FRIEDRICH JR. The men's · soccer team completed their season this past weekend at home in a losing effort to North Adams. The 2-1 score and the game itself might represent what kind Qf season it was for the Dutchmen; close but not cigar. On a muddy Garis field, Union jumped to a 1-0lead when in the second half Rich Engdahl scored off a Dan Pittenger :flick- on header. The pretty goal was to be enjoyed for only a short time, though, as North Adams scored the equalizer and winner in a span of fifteen minutes. Overall the Dutchmen put out a very strong effort against· a touch squad whose size and skill had already earned them a playoffberth. Two days before the Adams game, Union defeated St. Lawrence 4-0, which gave the Dutchment a glimmer of hope for an ECAC playoff bid, but it was n(lt meant to be. The 7-7-1 squad was a young one, with only six seniors and four janiors.~Experience was often a key factor in many of the matches, and for Union this was a learning year. Injuries also hurt the squad, as players went down with peculiar frequency this year. A total of four players in the soccer program (j.v. and varsity) suffered season-ending injariClS throughout the fall. Often in what appears to be bad there is good. The squad learned. a tremendous amount, and truly laid the groundwork for a dominating team in 1988. In soccer, like many spo~, game e.xperience is invaluable. The team grew from the ex- perien.ce of a top n!(Jtf.lb Division III schedule, aliid that ex.- perience will tr-ansfer into excellence in the :ye11rs to come. The seniors ~n the squad provided the lead..ersl!ip which is asually thought of, bat rarely seen. Captain Dall Pittellger, Dave Cope, David i'ewksJ)ury, Jay Davis, Jeff Rarker-, and Eric La.uerwald. 'Ibese are not just names that iiVill fade into Union annals. Tlleir skill and personalities illElllenced the layers to perform i~ .jevels what many thought W-EL'e Impossible, and tbeir mem()ri~s Will earry this team even f11r-ther next year. Talent budded this seru:;on as well. Before ~etting hurt, . transfer studen1 Clu'is Avery ' and freshman !!:riC! Reaman were dominating oil ()ffense 1:1nd defense, respe<!tive-ly. Brian . Desmarias and David Hass, both freshman, c:racked the lineup by midsea.so!l. The J;v. sqaud provided _gt.'()wth as well. Coach Scott Davidson W()tked a diverse group int~'J>;~ true team, and saw playell's like Rob Kaulbach, Kim ()IJetmeyer; Ric Morton, and Fete Cowles develop into players that will crack the first sqJJad.'s ranks irt: '88, while .postin~ a 5-3-1 record. to date the bestof ally men's fan sport this year. Wbile it would be easy to state all of the mistako:~ the soccer squad made tbls seas~;an, one can also look Jlarder at what really took placE. lm1987 a mold was made and filled, and now must Sit and fom1. I eagerly await the un::veilfug of · the masterpiece in thE seasons to. .come. The next time· Union got tl}e ball, the Dutchmen needed just one play and 14 s.econds to cover 80 yards. Shepherd took the pitch and broke through the line untouched. Around the Williams' 40, he put on a move to the outside then outlegged the secondary en route to an 80- yard to\lchdown, the longest of his fine 3-year career. The rest of the. game was a . time for Union's second string to partake in the festivities and ·continue to shutdown Williams. When the final gun had sounded Union had amassed·421 yards on Support the Skating Dutchmen 68 offensiv.e plays. Defensively, the Dutchmen allowed 256 total yards, 140 rushing and 116 _ passing. The Williams troun- cing was by far Union's best overall game of.the season. At 4- 4, the grldders have a chance to save face for tbe season with two game.s ·remaining. The Dutchmen will travel to Middlebury. next week to take on the 4-2 Panthers. UNION vs. ~R.·P.I. Nov. 7,.1987 • 7:30 at R.P.t

CXVJI, No. 8 All the dining facilities will be closed except for the Dutch Hollow Restaurant - College Some Remain Alters Decision;- Facilities -Will Open Over Break By LEE ~NN SCHMIDT .Editor-in-Chief Due to student concern the College has decided that Schaffer Library, the computer center,. and the Dutch Hollow Restaurant will reopen Friday November 20. Originally these facilities were to be closed from the evening , of Wednesday, November 25 until Sunday, November 29. a.m. The Computer Center will be open from Friday on through finals week as well. Hiller was especially pleased that Mammola stated that the Humanities and Social SCiences buildings will also be open from Friday on. The Dut~h Hollow Restaurant will be open on those days also, on a cash only basis as usual. In order to provide the Ad- ministration with further in- formation concerning the students needs during this break, the Student Forum· has been polling students. This information is needed to demonstrate the extent of which these services are needed See FORUM, p. 3 Johnson Re-e'lected Mayor of Schenectady Comments on Unusual Three-Party Race ltyF,lONA SHUKRI News Editor Mayor Karen Johnson of Schenectady was elected to serve a second term in office Novembel\ 4,. 1987. Making this ·election so Interesting was the late annoliilcement by Henry l)elegge<Jfbisdecision to run as a tWr:--d c::andidate representing the Conservative Party. 1 Delegg~e lost the primary to Republican Frank Duci, who served as mayor of Schenectady prior to J-ohnson. He announced his intent to run as a third party in early October leaving him onlyonem<>nth to run an active <:ampaig11. When asked if she belie-vedi Delegge's running dre~ a Ilot of the Republican vote awa;y from Duci ultimately helping Johnson's campaign the mayor responded, \Who knows • what h~ dl'ew?\ However-, when questioned . a boat th,e validity of the Times Unio11' s speculation that Deleggi! ran at the request ()f the :p{)liC:e department in order to draw votes away from Duci J ohnso~r spoke more specificllll:y: \The Conservative party in Schenectady is mainly controlled by the police and fire departments. They went f()r Delegge in the primary.\ She went 011 to explain that the polici! department did not want her ·inoffice bec;~use she had not enacted a Poli<:e Benelovence Ass()ciation (PBA) contract, whkll is baSi<:a]:y unionization. Th~y also die Dot favor Duci, she stated. '''rtley (police and fire departmentS) wanted .to see wl1at mischief t:hey could do. Ttley wanted t<J show their own str-ength and tiley wanted to · bum.J) one ()f the Democratic asseml>lymel!;'' States Johnson some CJf theii1 are quite upset to see ller get re-El-ected to office, a11d some are :probably not. Wllat they s11cceeded in doing by aisplaying a.' high vote on their line is giving themselves credibility byt:he power of vote in il:le community. Johnson calls · this \sick.\ \They should work at t:be bargaining table. Their p.ower is tQ() tempting for politicians. Wba-:t are you going · to see is back-room deals rather tha11. the deJ>artments and pol iti dans barg a inin.g publicly.\ Johnson states that the ReptLblican and Democratic representati«m ·is fairly even in Schenectady. The poll turn-out was ~1 7 000 down 3,500 from last year: Jollnson feels that the major isstles in the campaign dealt wit1.1 turning around the eco11omy , and tile candidates' See JOHNSON, p. 3 This would have been a major inconvenience for those students who could not go home, or had planned on returning early during this \Tha·nksgiving Break.\ Finals begin the following week and students would have been 'unable to use any of th~se facilities during this crucial . week of studying. The Ad· ministration had not considered stude11t needs in its earlier decision to close these facilities. This information was brought to the att~ntion of the Student Forum, and they presented this problem to the Administration. Student F01:um President Michael Hiller met with Dean of Students Joseph Mammola several times early in the week and stated that \He was ex- tremely cooperative.\ Gorb~chev Using Revolution Anniversary to Adva~ce .Pe·restroika, Political Science Professors Say The outcome of these meetliigs was hopeful. A compromise was reached whereby facilities would be opened during part of the break. The library will be open m Friday arid Saturday from 9 a.m. lltltil 5 p.ll). Beginning on Sunday extended hours will go into effEct allowing students to use the library from noon untill In This Issue Intercollegiate News, p. 3 Honor Code Needed, p. 5 International Politics Series This Week:. Greece, p. 8 Hoop Preview p. 19 By TAMMY TIBBE'ITS November 7, 1987 marked the 70th anniversary of the Bolshevik Revolution. This day is celebrated every year, just like our Independence Day, but given special attention on the decennial celebration. This attention is often used by the leaders to gain support for their programs. In 1967, th~ 50th anni- versary, Brezhnev had been in power for only three years so he used the celebration to show how he was moving the state in the right direction. In 1977, the 6oth anniversary, a new constitution for the Soviet state was iSsued b;v Brezbnev. Now, General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev iS working for radical reform within the Soviet Union and can use this time to push his plans. According to Professor Charles Gati of Political Science, he is doing this in three ways: by using it to identify himself with himself with Stalin, and to resurrect Soviet non-persons, such as Bikhari.n, who politics were similar to Gorbachev's proposals~ Professor Robert Sharlet, also of Political Science, says that this is \an ideal time for Gorllac:hev, because his restructaring (Gor~achev's reformprogram) is grounded in Leninist legacy.\ As this is a celebration of Lenin's work,. whicl:l brought the Soviet systEm to life, all programs present-ed now must be tightly · and iJi'r efutably linked to Le11in's poolicies. Restl1lc~rillg, . the English name of Gor- bachevr's book, released in celebl'!Lti.()n on November 2, eKJ)Ialn.sbis plans for the future. They rest now on disannament and th•e shifting of resources from t.be military to places wbere it would allow for other 'needed development. For example, the · fact that the So\rietUnion, a vast country has to imp0ort wheat is an em- harassment that Gorbachev feels c.ollld be alleviated if the !Il()ney s:pent on weapons could be us:ed elesewhere, as in • agricullture. Road systems and e«Jrnm unications are other areas that also would benefit from Gorbachev's proposals. · Ac<lording to Professor Sharlet, tbis <:elebration will give '~impe:t11s to his program by · li!lkag:e. to the past.\ As Gorbachev's proposals could. greatly affect Soviet Unior1 foreign pdicy, especially intlle arms ra(le, it is important that the Un]ted States pay car-eful attention to his plan. It is fine to be \properly skep- tical,\ but \W'llefi Gorbachev e()rnes to tlle \U.S. in December . with his charisma and per- sllasive perso11ality, perhaps ()Ur country will accept his ch~Ue:p,ge. As for now, the military a11d civilian parades . will continue as the SoViet peClple celebrate what PrClfessor Sbt~rlet terms the ''wellspring of the Soviet system,\ thEir rev()lllticn of i.J)dependence. 'lbe Red Guard overthrew the m<Jderate lead.:ers in the Soviet Unim in what is now known as tile- Bolshevik Revolution :N()vember 7, 1917. The mCJderates ba;d only been in IJ()Wer si.llce February, when ttley overthre'W the Czar. The radicals, th<()ugh satisfied at . first, came t<J re1;1li2e that a more revolutionary govern- ment would be necessary to · make the (lhanges they desired. . Lenin and Tre>tsky, as capable leaders, were. able to motivate • the people ar~d quickly establish tfleir revolu:.tionary govern· ment, whiell has been in e:xistence e~e:r since. November 12, 198 'T Senator Gary Hart Gary Hart Booked For Parents' Weekend By DAVID GULLIVER Editor-in-Chief Gary Hart, forl!ler presidential candidate aul senator, is the scheduled speaker for Union's Parell!ts' Weekend, May 6, 1988. At this time, Hart's book:· ing agent and Unio11 have signed a contract; thoe contract next goes to Hart fO>r his approval. Hart will b-e making a number of speakin,g appearances in 1988, U!Uon being one stop on his circuit. · Union's Speakers' Forum is organizing the event. Chairmmn Steve Klein is pleased with tlleir success. but adds that at tills point, it is still a tentative booking,. \Nothing's a go Ulltil you're on stage,\ he saic:l. Hart's contract has an esc~pe clause through which he (!a~ still cancel his appearance. Hart is being paid $10,000 plms: first class travel for t\WI(). Speakers' Forum budget for tb~ school year is $28,170. Klein said that the Forlllll1's objective was to sign a few llig- name, intellectual speakers tllis ' Hart is being paid $10,000 plus first cl~ss travel for two. Speaker's Forum budget for tl.11~ school year is $28,170. year and to also run a series o:f lower-priced functions. So faif this year, Speakers Forum lla~ co-sponsored poet Gwend!()lYIJ Brooks and sponsor-eli comedian Emo Phillips amid musician Livingston Ta)ll«>r, and organized Professor Levwis' discussion of the etock market collapse. Klein hopes to bring in rn«>re pollticians this year, becaliS-e it is an election year, as well as the traditional comedians for homec<Jming and Camp U nio11 . Last year 's Parents' Week-end speaker was political colurnrii..st Jack Anderson; the Camp Unio11 comedian was Soam KiniS()n.

Page 2 tCONCORDIENSJS, No.wernber 12, 198.7 --------------------------~----------~~~~----~ Professor Bradley Lectures On Impact :of·. ·Qxfam to ·sponsor 'Fast For World Harvest' Stock Market Crash By STEVE COLE Will 'daddy' bE selling apples on Wall Street? During his last Wednesday lecture, Union's own Economics professor Bradley Lewis hedged probably not. He began explaining the mechanics of the market system, and then proceeded to give his own theory of what happened durmg the recent market devaluation. Men- tioning such factors as new automated trading technology, group psychology, and the national budget and trade deficit, Lewis explained his views of recent market mechanics. Alt:h()ugh markets all over the world sharply declined, Wall Street was the first pin to fall. ·· He first began by clearing up what he deemed as miscon- ceptions. \I don't really blame the new technology for this, in part, because we have had panics before vthen we didn't have the new technolcgy,\ Lewis said. \Programmed trading may have made a difference... but I think the sense of panic h11rt a lot,\ he. continued. Lewis emphasized when groups of investors sense nervousness, gossip starts, causing other investors to also become nerV()llS. The ner- vousness is cyclical and am- plified. by the gossip. He dismissed the pronou.mced roles that some market anaJysts put on the budget and tracle deficits. Lewis began tbLs l>y stating, ·~There is not muc:h good evidence that they ail'e to blame for it.\ By deunon- strating the present deficits in relation to America's pre-\World War One history, he conte=nded it was relativt>~Y normal, aad not nearly as malignanJ as others say. He continu~d to exp1ain that America act11ally had trade surpluses, and federal budget surpluses dllritlg· -much of the Great Depression. When labeling his views .ab()ut the deficit, Lewis said h~ was both in agreement a!ld disagreement with peopl-e all over the political spectrll!Jl. Due to the natural buS:iness cycles, after a five yf,lar economic eKpansion, he in- dicated, the U.S. Is proibal>ly due for a change. Whether it just be a small recessioiL or a larger crash depends upon policy. He stressed i:here doesn't have to be a Larger crash. Lewis claimed this crash was a reminder of how poJitical economics really is. ''It. (the solution) has to do with earning to terms with how to ke·ep an integrated world econorn~.\ ByKRIS BURNilAM It is a rare occurance when an opportunity may be .seized for an entire population to act as one. One such event .is the an- nual Fast For A Worl-d Harvest, which is sponsored hy Oxfam America. This Event is organized annually so that anyone who is interEsted may take a day out of his life to fast for world hunger. The premise is such that by giving up the money that it wouldt.ake to feed ourselves· for one day, and .symbolically fasting, an entire population can take a step to end world hunger. Traditionally., tl:le fasting takes place on the Thursday before Thanksgiving: Here at Union, we have been par- ticipating often on an aleter- native day because the nationwide date ·bas fallen during our eKams. This year, however, because our exam schedule has been cbanged, we can participate on tbe nation- wide date, November, the 19th. Sign ups will be co11ducted on the 11th and 12th of November for those students who are on the meal plan. B~ deciding which meals a student would like to give up, the Food Ser- vices can allocate the money -that would have been spent on the food and donatt{l it to the fund. Sister Joan mmmented that, \It would be ,difficult to Campus Liason Committee and Student Grounds -Committee · ·Ad.dress Campu~s Concerns :By SETH MICHAELS Many current and future concems regarding Union's buildings and grounds were discussed at a meeting between the Campus Liaison Committee, the . Student Grounds Com- mittee, and Mr. Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations. Foremost ()D the agenda was the closing of .AleKander Lane to automobiles. So far there has been little incident except for minor inconveni~nce. The plan to close the road to traffic to allow safer pedestrian use and to discourage people from using the road as a \short-cut\ seems to be effective. Mr. Hill in- formed those present that the only major incident to date was that some un.known person had cut the chain with a bolt cutter. Mr. Hill further stated that if these acts of ~an1dal:ism per:;rst, the college will resort to in- stalling a case hardened chain which is virtually imposs;ible to cut. Recent concerns brou;ght to light by an article two w~eks ago, regarding future pl.ans-to close South Lane off t() traffic, has prompted fmr'ther discussion by the Csmpus Liaison Committee, .Student Grounds Coirllriittee, arud Mr. Hill. The intended purp.ose of closing South Lane is to Jl'lrovide a safer environment for the campus pedestrians. Ccmerns regarding escort service:, · both by securgy and personali drop- offs, have been brought io Mr. Hill's attention. In response,Mr. Hill has indicated that he is more than- willing to worl:t oat a system where the road wrould be closed during the day an' d ()pen at night for security an,d !)er- sonal escorts and s~me simllarly convenient It should be understood that the prol)<lsal is to elimil\ate traffic and not to merely sl~~Jw it down. Therefore, sugge~tions for speed bumps are !being con- sidered to possibl:v work in conjunction with lin:ilted access • to South Lane. In regard to ti:Je college's policy on car towing, a request was made that 'the towing com}>any accept either checks or ,credit cards. It \'Vas, brought to Mr. Hill's attention tbat the company currently only accepts casll for the return of a vehicle ot it-s owner. Mr. Hill will look into the possibilitY of a more acceptable policy- from the towing company. As a result of t:he Campus Liaison Committee's concern for the cleanliness of students in the dormitilries, liquid soap See COMMITTEE, p. 4 PRE-HEALTH SOCIETY NOTICE . Are you an underclassman with questions aoout class-· es? What course!!; do I need for health profession grad- uate schools?To assist you, each Friday in tl\e College Center Pub the Clff.icers of Pre-Health will be available at 12:30tJm. Certianly please come if you W()Uid like to know more about · the Pre-Health Society. By all means bring comments and suggesiions. JOIN US!ll 12:30 PM FRI'DAY COLLEGE CENTER PUB include the' fulL e{,stof the meals because · that would include overhead costs and wag.es for the workers, wh() have to be on duty regardless.'' Those students not on the meal plan and faculty and staff members who wish to participate in some way may make donations at the SkeUar and the Dutch HoUow Pub on the day ofthe fast. In the spirit of the .day, one would donate the m()ney for a meal and then skip that ineal during the day. 'The use ~of fasting as a rion~ violent form of pr()test has been widely used. Many famous persons . incl11ding Mahatma Ghandi, Cesar Cllavez, Dorothy .Day, Charles Liteky have fasted in order to bring recognition to specific causes. Some of these causes have been greatly detached fromtbe.idea put forth by Oxfam. ThE issues fasted for. ,include: trying to draw at- tention to the restrictive soci:al structures in India, · and, protesting American in- volvement in Central America. Orlam does not wish to have a politieal message associated with the fast day, ¥J,stead, it is the hope of the organizers to bring a world consciousness alive to tbe plight of those less fortunate. By bringing the world comintmity togetheL\ a real attempt may be made to · better the lives of the e!ltire human race. A small donation of time, money and. a small sacrifice by ' · everyone can indeed make a distinct difference. The m()ney raiSed will go to work in various areas which include, Mozam- bique, where fresh water is a · rare · commodity, ·in the Ph,ilippinEs where economics · and prilitical problem~ leave the people hungry, in Central America where relief comes in the form of an agricultural · supply network, and in the Catiboean where educatio.It is greatly needed. So, you see, by giving up one meal on the 19th, yo11 may ooaJce a differencE! to the world. If YOll have any questions or concerns,. you may· contact the . religious }liJogtams office in the College Center. More in- formationls available there and in the form of a 20-minute video which is available for viewing. On the day of the fast, this video will be playing in the dining halls. TERMS ABROAD GROUP GREECE- 'S8 The final orientation meeting has been scheduled for MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16 AT 4:30PM IN HUMANITIES 110; Bring yourselves and any I ast minute questions. If you have not handed in all requested .. pl,ease bring these to the meeting. / See you therel Graduate. School of Education & Hum~n Development U'niversi.ty of Roch~ster A variety of graduaUf) programs are offered at the Masters and Doctoral level Certification programs ate also offered Financial Aid and Scholarships A vailabte For more :lnform.e.tion consu11 your Career Placement Ottice or write or call (co11ec1) Office of A<:adeQlic Senices Gre.<lua\e .School of E<'luce.tion and Hwnan Developmen.t 304 Lattimore He.11 UniV,ersity of Rochester. Rochester NY 14627 716Z.75 '3950 KINGS & QUEENS PHONE: 377-20n UNISEX SALON -~ Colleen Ca:pitumrid.no 2147 BROADWAY ~HENEOTADY, N.Y.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSJS, November 12, 1987 --------------------------------------------------------- Professor Bradley Lectures On Imp act of Stock Market Crash Oxfam to Sponsor 'Fast For World Harvest' By STEVE COLE Will 'daddy' be selling apples on Wall Street? During his last Wednesday lecture, Union's own Economics professor Bradley Lewis hedged probably not. He began explaining the mechanics of the market system, and then proceeded to give his own theory of what happened during the recent market devaluation. Men- tioning such factors as new automated trading technology, group psychology, and the national budget and trade deficit, Lewis explained his views of recent market mechanics. Although markets all over the world sharply declined, Wall Street was the first pin to fall. He first began by clearing up what he deemed as miscon- ceptions. \I don't really blame the new technology for this, in part, because we have had panics before when we didn't have the new technology,\ Lewis said. \Programmed trading may have made a difference... but I think the sense of panic hurt a lot,\ he. continued. Lewis emphasized when groups of investors sense nervousness, gossip starts, causing other investors to also become nervous. The ner- vousness is cyclical and am- plified by the gossip. He dismisseci the pronounced relesthat some market analysts put on the b11clget and trade deficits. Lewis began this by stati.J:Ig, \Ther~ is not much good evidence that they are to blame for it.\ By demon- strating the pr~sent deficits in relation to America's pre-World War One history, he contended it was relatiw!y normal, and not nearly as malignant as others say. He continued to explain that America actually had trade surpluses, and federal budget surpluses during much of the Great Depression. When labeling his views about the deficit, Lewis said he was both in agreement and disagreement with people all over the political spectrum. Due to the natural business cycles, after a five year economic expansion, he in- dicated, the U.S. Is probably due for a change. Whether it just be a small recession or a larger crash depends upon policy. He stressed there doesn't have to be a larger cr-ash. Lewis claimed this crash was a reminder of how political economics really is. \lt (the solution) hast() do with coming to terms with how to keep an integrated world economy.\ By KRlS BURNHAM It is a rare occurance when an opportunity may be seized for an entire populathm to act as one. One such event is the an- nual Fast For A World Harvest, which is sponsored by Oxfarn America. This event is organized annually so that anyone who is interested may take a day out of his life to fast for world hllnger. The premise is such that by giving up the money that it would take to feed ourselves for one day, and symbolically fasting, an entire population can take a step to end world hunger. Traditionally, the fasting takes place on the Thursday before Thanksgiving. Here at Union, we have been par- ticipating often on an aleter- native day because the nationwide date has fallen during our exams. This year, however, l>ecause our exam schedule has been changed, we , can participate on the nation- wide date, November, the 19th. Sign ups will be conducted on the 11th anci 12th of November for those students who are on the meal plan. By deciding which meals a student would like to give up, the Food Ser- vices can allocate the money that would have been spent on the food and donate it to the fund. Sister- Joan commented that, \It would be difficult to Campus Liason Committee and Student Grounds Committee Address Campus Concerns By SETH MICHAELS Many current and future concerns regarding Union's buildings and grounds were discussed at a meeting between the Campus Liaison Committee, the Student Grounds Com- mittee, and Mr. Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations. Foremost on the agenda was the closing of Alexander Lane to automobiles. So far there has been little incident except for minor inconvenience. The plan to close the road to traffic to allow safer pedestrian use and to discourage people from using the road as a \short-cut\ seems to be effective. Mr. Hill in- formed those present that the only major incident to date was thai some unknown person had cut the chain with a bolt cutter. Mr. Hill further stated that if these acts of vandalism persist, the college will resort to in- stalling a case hardened chain which is virtually impossible to cut. Recent con~erns brought to light by an article two weeks ago, regarding future plans to close South Lane off to traffic, has prompted further discussion by the Campus Liaison Committee, Student Grounds Committee, and Mr. Hill. The intended purpose of closing South Lane is to provide a safer environment for the campus pedestrians. Conerns regarding escort service, both by security and personal drop- offs, have been brought to Mr. Hill's attention. In response, Mr. Hill has indi~ated that he is more than willing to work out a system where the road would be closed during the day and open at night for security and per- sonal escor-ts and some -'--\~·-l-· convenient It should be understood that the proposal is to eliminate traffic and not to merely slow it down. Therefore, suggestions for speed bumps are being con- sidered to possibly work in conjunction with limited access to South Lane. In regar<l to the college's policy on car towing, a request was made that the towing company accept either checks or credit cards. It was brought to Mr. Hill\ s attention that the company ~1.urently only accepts cash for the return of a vehicle ot its owner. Mr. Hill will look into the p()ssibility of a more acceptable policy from the towing company. As a result of the Campus Liaison Committee's concern for the cleanliness of students in the dormibries, liquid soap See COMMITTEE, p. 4 PRE-HEALTH SOCIETY NOTICE Are you an underclassman with queslions about class- es? What courses do I need for health profession grad- uate schools?To assist you, each Fri.day in the College Center Pub the officers of Pre-Health will be available a112:30 pm. Certian ly please come if you would like to know more about .. the P~e-Health Society. By all means bring comments • and suggestions. JOIN US!!I 12:30 PM FRIDAY COLLEGE CENTER PUB 1. include the full cost of the meals because that would include overhead costs and wages for the workers, who have to be on duty regardless.\ Those students not on the meal plan and faculty and staff members who wish to participate in some way may make donations at the Skellar and the Dutch Hollow Pub on the day of the fast. In the spirit of the day, one would donate the money for a meal and then skip that meal during the day. The use of fasting as a non- violent form of protest has been widely used. Many famous persons including Mahatma Ghandi, Cesar Chavez, Dorothy Day, Charles Liteky have fasted in order to bring recognition to specific causes. Some of these causes have been greatly detached from the idea put forth by Oxfam. The issues fasted for include: trying to draw at- tention to the restrictive social structures in India, and protesting American in- volvement in Central America. Oxfam does not wish to have a political message associated with the fast day, instead, it is the hope of the organizers to bring a world consciousness alive to the plight of those less fortunate. By bringing the world conununity together, a real attempt may be made to better the lives of the entire human race. A small donation of time, money and a small sacrifice by everyone can indeed make a distinct difference. The money raised will go to work in various areas which include, Mozam- bique, where fresh water is a rare commodity, in the Philippines where economics and political problems leave the people hungry, in Central America where relief comes in the form of an agricultural supply network, and in the Caribbean where education is greatly needed. So, you see, by giving up one meal on the 19th, you may mal-\e a difference to the world. If you have any questions or concerns, you may contact the religious programs office in the College Center. More in- formation is available there and in the form of a 20-minute video which is available for viewing. On the day of the fast, this video will be playing in the dining halls. TERMS ABROAD GROUP GREECE- ~ga The final orientation meeting has been scheduled for MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16 AT 4:30PM IN HUMANITIES 110. Bring yourselves and any last minute questions. If you have not handed in all requested, please bring these to the meeting. See you there! Graduate School of Educati.on & Human Development University of Rochester A variety of graduate programs are offered at the Masters and Doctoral Level Certification programs are also offered Financial Aid and Scholarships Available Ior more information consult your Career Placement Office or vrite or call (collect) Office of Academic Ser'Vices Graduate School of Education and Human Development \304 Lattimore Hell University of Rochester, Rochester NY 14627 716 275 \3950 KINGS & QUEENS PHONE: 3n-20n UNISEX SALON ~ Colleen Capitttmmino 2147 BROADWAY SCHENECTADY, N.Y. ,. ' I I ; l

. CONCORDIENSIS, November 12_, 1987 Page 3 Ad;missio:ns. Refines Recruitment :a;nd General Education Board To Make Changes in Original Proposal .i Acce.ptance P . 1.. . o·. IC:IS'S ByTRACEY PRYLUCK :E ·S§ < Prof.essor Underwood By MELISSA LEV,INE Th~ admi-ssions office will be :~ selecting students for the ·w freshman class of 19~2 based on · a: their \quality of course , ~ . selection~ performance in . 5 honors and advanced courses, · :c performanc.e in the first -n. semester of the senior year, and evidence of intellectual curiosity . and commitment to learning b~yond that indicated The General Education Bo.ard has begun to hold meetings to determine what new General Education plan will eventually be put into effect. This Academic Affairs Committee ( AAC) subcouncil consists of five professors from different d:iscipli:nes: Professor by the ·academic record,\ ac- cording to the addendum to tbe 1987 Union College admissions application. Admissions policies at Union College have been the focus of ' national attention this year as a r~sult of the decision to make SAT scores optional for ap- plicants. Students are still : required to submit College Board Achievement Test Scores in English Composition and any ' two other subjects, or ACT test scores. SAT's are not optional . for Seven Year Med orSix Year Law students. . Underwood (Political Science) the Dean of Faculty as of January, Professor Berk ·(History), Professor Anderson certain aspects \f the Curricular Alternatives Committee proposal. The consensus seems to be that the concE!pts in the CAC proposal were good, but the structure was poor. Thus far, the General Education Board meetings have been based on discussion. One concern that llas arisen in tllese discussions is that Union may nCJt have the . staif needed to implement tile new .program. For example, one possibility is ' the history sequence. Each student would be required -to take .either Elli\opean History I and II, American History I and ' II, or ltoman History I and Il. This would result in the need for lip to seven more history profes:sors, and possibly more : : classics professors as well. Other suggested requirements include foreign languages and lab sciences, and there may no longer be an engineering requirement for liberal arts majors. In general, this would result in some sort of shifting Qf faculty. Johnson Concerned About Lack of Interaction Between Union Students and Community Continued from page 1 fiscal management skills. \Schenectady has eKperienced major job loss in the last year. G.E. alone laid off 4,0ll0.\ It (the G.E. workforce) is stabilization around 1,200, which is way down from when I first took office.\ While employment has been unstable, there has been no difficulty filling available Plans for development in- clude a fifteen~story office building with a 560-car garage, located behind Proctor's Theater. To compensate. for . the ab- sence of SAT scores in ad- ffilSSions evaluation procedures, the submission of salllples of secondary school work and examples of work displaying special or creative talents i~ strongly encouraged. (Chemistry), Professor Warde (Modern Languages), and Ptofessor Burke (Engineering). There .are two students on· the committee as well, James Sawyer, a senior and Melissa Stewart, a sophomore. Committee members were clfosen. by the Student Forum. · . The General Edu~ation plan that is now on the oooks was proposed last year by the AAC. However, because of dissent within the faculty' changes are bing made. These changes may The Board is hoping.to have a proposal by January, which will then be voted on by the AAC. Any problems can be evened out by the AAC during the winter term, which will allow the pla11 to be implemented sooner. Representatives from the AAC,. including students as well as faculty, have been sitting i:n Oil General Education ·Board meetings, keeping them in- formed throughout the entire decisi.Sion-making process. -housing, Johnson said.. \A lot of peopl~ have been coming to Schenectady to live, because it's a nice area, and it's cheaper than Albany or Troy_\ When asked what role Union plays in the future of Schenectady, Johnson voiced concern over the relatively non- existent interchange between Union students and the com- munity. \I have been trying very h.ard to work with Union students,\ stated .the mayor, citing snch examples as her appearance at chaity softball and basketban games as well as other activities. \And I'm very aware of Union's large par- ticipation in the Big Brother, Big SiSter program;'t_·But; ,She adds, ''compared to other college-towns, there i~ not ~uch student interaction with this town.\ The Admissions Office also has a new promotional film. This twenty minute video in- cludes scenes from virtually . every aspect of life at Union. The film opens with views of the Nott Memorial, and a message stating that it covers a \recen~ year in the life of a private university.\ The film begins with scenes from Orientation 1986 and concludes with Graduation 1987. Through the course of the film, classes in nearly all of the department on campus- are featured, with professors discussing their views on the rewards of the educational programs at Union, in general and as they relate specifically to their departments~ Inthe film,· Professor '{aylor of the mathematics department explains that the stu.dents at Union are \impressive people. They are comfortable with who they are and what they are doing.\ While he acknCJwledges that many of the students may not have a definite idea of exactly who they are or what they want to do, he believes they are comfortable with the process of discovering. The Admissions film, as well as the new Union College promotional brochure, etn- phazise the completion of the College Center and its promincence as a central meeting place on campus. DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1:517 Van Vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANING AN.D TAILOR lNG · include implementation of Student Forum . Subcommittees Getting to Work Continued from page 1 . during the week, especiany the dining facilities. Thus far a fair number of students . have responded that they will be on · campus during break. · Con- conDenses encourages students to respond to this search for information by answering the questionnaire located in the entrance to the \College Center\ Atrium, or by in- forming your class represen-- tative. The Student forum is busy with several other projects as well. The Ad Hoc Coi11Illittee on . Security, whose members in· elude Jen Scully, and Joe Voyticky .• is collecting evidence on the amount of damage and loss to fraternities and Synclironized Switn rrtam Come Swim 11-'itfi V.s sororities. Out of nine frater- nities polled thus far over $7,00El worth of damage has been , reported as having occurr~d in the past year and 1. They intend on gathering information concernting such damages and presenting it to the Ad- ministration in an effort to improve security on Campus. The ~tudent Forum is also planning on having a Gel Time Survey during registration 'to · research the impact of Ge:J Time. Student Formn President, Michael Hillel' stated that \The system has been working this year\ and i:f the decision to open the crucial facilities during break is .any indication, it seems this is true. Practices Tuesday & rtftursda!f 8:30-10:()() 9{p T-zyerience Nf.ctfec[ The mayor hopes to shift Schenectady's reliance on General Electric to \a whole bunch of other things, she sajd.\ \Schenectady has been a one- company town for so long, people have developed a mental paralysis. 'G.E. will hire me back,' 'We need more growth from G.E.' 'Let's ask G.E. to fund a community project.\' Although General Electric is the largest manufacturer in the Capital District, Johnson feels . that it is necessary to look lor alternative resources of em- ployment funding, and support. \Ws an image problem with the city, she said.' ' There is much the immediate area has to offer, states Johnson, but the question is \How do we kame this community appear to be as exciting as it is?\ Johnson hopes.to promote, in the future, what the area has to offer. Intercollegiate News Unht. of Utah to rank incoming freshmen Salt . Lake City, Utah- (I.P. )-The Academic Senat~ at the University of Utah recently moved one . step closer to a policy of selctive enrollment by unanimously approving in principle, a plan to use an academic index to rank and limit incoming freShmen, ef- fective fall 1989'. The selective admrssions plan, propased by the Credits and Admissions Committee, limits incoming freshmen to those who score lligh on an academic index. The index score is derived by combining a student's ACT score with his or her grade point average, . James Pappas; chair of the Cr~dits and Admissions Committee, said the proposal is a response to the . fact that a rapid increase in freshmen applicants is expected to ex:ceed university resolll'ces. Write for News Call Becky :x4416 or Fiona x4166. College Co- Sponsers Aids Conference Albany, New York-Dr. William F. Kahl, President of Russell Sage College, an- noun!!ed today that three local · institntio11s are joining forces to sp.onsCJr one of the largest conferences on AIDS ever held in this regi()n. Russell Sage College, A-lbany Medical Center, and the AIDS Council of Northeastern New York will co- sponsor The First Annual Conference on .AIDS Prevention and Education on December 10 and 11 at the Albany Hilton. The topic of the conference will be \Managing the AIDS Crisis: A Multi-Disciplinary Approach.'' \Keeping with our tradition of providing .qualitY health · education in the region, Russell Sate Cc>llege iS pleased to join our neighboring health orgmizations in presenting this program,\ Kahl said. \Through the shared resources and cooperative efforts of these three institutions, the greater Capital Region will benefit from a conference featuring some of· the most respected professionals working on tbe AIDS crisis today.\ •

l I I ; l CONCORDIENSIS, November 12, 1987 Page 3 Admissio·ns Refines Recruitment a·nd Acceptanc:e Policies :By TRACEY PRYLUCK ~ ~ 5 The admissiens effice will be u General Education Board To Make Changes in Original Proposal certain aspects of the Curricular Alternatives Committee proposal. The consensus seems to be that the concepts in the CAC proposal were good, but the structure was poor. ·~ selecting students for the ~ freshman class of 1992 based on > their \quality of c0urse al selection, performance in '·~ 0 Thus far, the General Education Board meetings have been based on discussion. One concern that has arisen in these discussions is that Union may not have the staff needed to implement the new program. For example, one possibility is the history sequence. Each student would be required to take either European History I and II, American History I and Il, or Roman History I and II. This would result in the need for up to seven more history professors, and possibly more classics proiiessors as well. other suggested requirements include foreign languages and lab sciences, and there may no longer be an engineering requirement for liberal arts majors. In general, this would result in some sort of shifting of faculty. honors and advanced courses, :x: ·C. perfermance in the fi!rst semester of the senior year, &nd evidence of intellectual curiesity and commitmellt to learning beyond that indicated by the academic record,\ ac- cording to the addendum to the 1987 Union College admissions application. Admissions policies at Union College have been the focus of national attention this year as a result of the decision to make SAT scores optional for ap- plicants. Students are still required to submit College Board Achievement Test .Scores in English Composition and any two other subjects, or ACT test scores. SAT's are not optional for Seven Year Med or Six 'Year Law students. To compensate for tile ab- sence of SAT scores in ad- mtsstons evaluation procedures, the submissiora of samples of secondary scnool work and examples of work displaying special or creative talents is strongly encouraged. The Admissions Office also has a new promotional film. This twenty minute video in- cludes scenes from virtually every aspect of life at Unfi.on. The film opens with views of the Nott Memorial, and a mess.age stating that it covers a ' 'recent year in the life of a priwa.te university.\ The film begins with scenes from Orientation 1986 and concludes with Graduation 1987. Through the course of the film, classes in nearly all of the department on campus are featured, with professors discussing their views on the rewards of the educational programs at Union, in general and as they relate specific:ally to their departments. Inthe film, Professor Taylor ()£ the mathematics department explains that the stud~nts at Union are \impressive pe()ple. They are comfortable with who they are and what they are doing.\ While he acknowledges that many of the students may not have a definite idea of exactly who they are or what they want to do, he believes they are comfortable with the process of discovering. The Admissions film, as well as the new Union C{)llege promotional brochure, em- phazise the completion of the College Center and its promincence as a central meeting place on campus. DAMBRO'SE CLEANERS 1517 van vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING Proie.ssor Underwood By MELISSA LEVINE The General Education Board has begtm to hold meetings to determin~ what new General Educatioil plan will eventually be put into effect. This Academic Affairs Committee (AAC) s:ubcouncil consists ef five professors from different disciplines: Professor Underwo()d (Political Science) the Dean of Faculty as of January, Professor Berk (History~, Professor Andersen (Chemistry), Professor Warde (Modem Languages), and Professor Burke (Engineerlng). There are two students on the committee as well, James Sawyer, a senior and Melissa Stewart, a sophonure. Committee members were chosen by the Student Forum. The General Education plan that is n.ow on the books was proposed. last year by the AAC. However, because of dissent -within the faculty, changes are bing made. These changes may include implementation of The Board is hoping to have a proposal by January, which will then be voted on by the AAC. Any problems can be evened out by the AAC during the winter term, which will allow the plan to be implemented sooner. Representatives from the AAC, including students as well as faculty, have been sitting in on General Education Board meetings, keeping them in- formed throughout the entire decisision-making process. Student Forum Subcommittees Getting to Work Continlled from page 1 during tlle week, especially the dining facilities. Thus far a fair number of students have responded that they will be on campus during break. Con- c«lrdienses encourages students to respomd to this search for information by answering the questiolln<:~ire located in the entrance to the \College Center,. Atrium, or by in- forming your class represen- tative. The Student forum is busy with several other projects as well. T11e Ad Hoc Committee on Security, whose members in- clude Jen Scully, and Joe Voyticky. is collecting evidence on the amount of damage and loss t~ fraternities and S ynclironi.zed Swint Team Come Swim Witfi rus sororities. Out of nine frater- nities polled thus far over $7,000 worth of damage has been reported as having occurred in the past year and 1. They intend on gathering information concernting such damages and presenting it to the Ad- ministration in an effort to improve security on Campus. The Student Forum is also planning on having a Gel Time Survey during registration 'to research the impact of Gel Time. Student Forum President, Michael Hiller stated that \The system has been working this year\ and if the decision to open the crucial facilities during break is any indication, it seems this is true. Practices 'Tuesaay & CJfrursday 8:30-10:00 :J{p 'Ezyerience :A&ctfec{ Mayor of Schenectady, Karen Johnson Johnson Concerned About Lack of Interaction Between Union Students and Community Continued from page 1 fiscal management skills. \Schenectady has experienced major job loss in the last year. G .E. alone laid off 4,000.'' It (the G .E. work force) is stabilization around 1 ,200, which is way down from when I first took office.\ While employment has been unstable, there has been no difficulty filling available housing, Johnson said. \A lot of people have been coming to Schenectady to live, because it's a nice area, and it's cheaper than Albany or Troy.\ The mayor hopes to shift Schenectady's reliance on General Electric to \a whole bunch of other things, she said.'' \Schenectady has been a one- company town for so long, people have developed a mental paralysis. 'G .E. will hire me back,' 'We need more growth from G.E.' 'Let's ask G.E. to fund a community project.\' Although General Electric is the largest manufacturer in the Capital District, Johnson feels that it is necessary to look ior alternative resources of em- ployment funding, and support. Plans for development in- clude a fifteen-story office building with a 560-car garage, located behind Proctor's Theater. When asked what role Union plays in the future of Schenectady, Johnson voiced concern over the relatively non- existent interchange between Union students and the com- munity. \I have been trying very hard to work with Union students,\ stated the mayor, citing such examples as her appearance at chaity softball and basketball games as well as other activities. \And I'm very aware of Union's large par- ticipation in the Big Brother, Big Sister program.'' But, she adds, ''compared to other college-towns, there is not much student interaction with this town.\ \It's an image problem with the city, she said.'' There is much the immediate area has to offer, states Johnson, but the question is \How do we kame this community appear to be as exciting as it is?\ Johnson hopes to promote, in the future, what the area has to offer. Intercollegiate News Univ. of Utah to rank incoming freshmen Salt Lake City, Utah- (I.P.)-The Academic Senate at the University of Utah recently moved one step closer to a policy of selctive enrollment by unanimously approving in principle, a plan to use an academic index to rank and limit incoming freshmen, ef- fective fall 1989. The selective admissions plan, proposed by the Credits and Admissions Committee, limits incoming freshmen to those who score high on an academic index. The index score is derived by combining a student's ACT score with his or her grade point average. James Pappas, chair of the Credits and Admissions Committee, said the proposal is a response to the fact that a rapid blcrease in fresh!nen applicants is expected to exceed university resoW'ces. Write for News Call Becky x4416 or Fionax4166 College Co- Sponsers Aids Conference Albany, New York-Dr. William F. Kahl, President of Russell Sage College, an- nounced today that three local institutions are joining forces to sponsor one of the largest conferences on AIDS ever held in this region. Russell Sage College, Albany Medical Center, and the AIDS Council of Northeastern New York will co- sponsor The First Annual Conference on AIDS Prevention and Education on December 10 andll at the Albany Hilton. The topic of the conference will be \Managing the AIDS Crisis: A Multi-Disciplinary Approach.'' \Keeping with 3Ur tradition of providing quality health education in the region, Russell Sate College is pleased to join our neighboring health organizations in presenting this program,\ Kahl said. \Through the shared resources and cooperative efforts of these three institutions, the greater Capital Region will benefit from a conference featuring some of the most respected professionals working on the AIDS crisis today.''

Page 4 CONCORDlENSlS~ November 12, 1987 Photo of the Week Profess·or Gati Named First Recipient of A ward Honoring · Soviet Stud.y The American Association for : public television and radio. the Advancement of Slavic · A member of the Union Studies awarded the Marshall : faculty since 1968, Gati is also Shulman Prize to Political : senior research Scholar, Science professor Charles Gati · Research Institute on Inter- for his . book HWlgary and the , national Change at Columbia Soviet Bloc. : University. Gati has lectured in Hungary and the Soviet Bloc : China, Japan, the Soviet Union, deals with Soviet goals and , and six East European conn- behavior toward Hungary and • tries this year. He has also been the rest of Ea.stern Europe since : a visiting professor at the end of World War II. The • Colombia, Yale, Indiana work draws on resources • University, and the University previously unavailable to : of Kansas. researchers. Such resources Gati served as a consultant to include Communist party ar· . the Department of State chives, interviews with par- · · preparing a report concerning ticipants, and unpublished • American foreign policy toward memoirs. Corrununist Eastern Europe. He Gati is also the author of advised the National Security Caging the Bear: Containment . Council on its East Europe and the Cold War and The : study in June 1980 and has Debate Over Detente (with co- · evaluated for Radio Free author Toby Trister Gati)., Europe, Ford Foundation, and among other works. He · the Rockefeller .Foundation. frequently c~ntributes to Gati is a native of Hungary. professional journals and other He was educated at Indiana · publications, including Foreign University, where he received a Affairs, The New York Times, Ph. D. in international relations Los Angeles Times, and The and a Russian area certificate. Washington Post, and is widely He is also a member of the interviewed on commercial and Council on Foreign Relations. ' Student Grounds and Cam,pus Liason Committees· D·iscuss Issues of Vandalism, Construction an,d Campus Roads with .Jack Hill Cont,inued from page 2 because of the enormous doors in the Social Science and dispensers will be installed on volumE . of trash generated by H u rna n iti e s buildings. an experimental basis. It was the College Center. The com- Apparently this problem had decided that third floor West pactot wm eUiciently contain occurredlast year as well. Mr. will have the dispensers un- aU of the College Center's trash Hill said it will be corrected. stalled sometime in the near for waste sel\Vice removal. -The re-<~ccurring vandalism future. If the students utilize the OII a more pleas;int note, of the courtyard lights between dispensers matureiy and work has begun on rather ex- Fox and Davidson. The Student responsibly, there is a strong tensive plans to ex;pand the Grounds C(>mmittee suggested possiblity that they will be in- brick terrace behind the College that the lights be mounted on stalled in all dormitory Center into the gardens. The the buildings and out of the way bathrooms. The soap dispensers plans effectively enhance the , of ordinary acts of vandalism. · will make routine cleanliness bea11ty of the gardens directly , · Mr. ,Hill accepted this easier and dormitories more behind the College Center and suggestion and further added sanitary. will permit greater use of the that the lights will be mounted In addition to soap dispen- area lilll'ing perio~s of clement in such a way as to not reflect sers, the installation of electric wea:thet. The plans will ·in- into dorm rooms: , hand dryers was discussed~ The tegtate exiStU:lg stone· work in -The construction ·of a paved · hand dryers will primarily the gardens with the new path from !the gate leading off replace the towel dispensers reqllirements of the imposing campus to University Place and throughout campus. The ob- College Center \\' building. Gillespie Street. Many off . vious advantage to the electric Members of the C~mpus . campus students have ~x- hand drying system is the Liaison ({ommittee were pressed a con~em that there is savings in p~per towel and somewhat concerned about the no clear passage leading across • maintenance costs. There are proeess of implementing the the street expecially when it currently some electric hand constrlLction plans. Mr. Hill rains and snows. Mr. Hill . dryers in bathrooms, There is explained that in a matter of inquired as to the number of no decision at the present time, about a week, plans were drawn students who would benefit but the conversion to electric up, bicls submitted and tbe from such a walkway and was hand dryers is under con- necessary funding was secured. informed that a substantial sideration. Tho ugh these plans are number of students reside in Mr. Hill talked about the generally aesthetically that area ~ff campus. current plans for the old Career pleasing, members· of the -The poor condition of SS016, and Counselling . Center CaJtl!)liS Liaison Committee are especially the ceiling where the building, otherwise known as 17 concerned about precedent- paint is peeling off. The Student South Lane. After some internal setting :administrative actions · Ground'S Committee was rehabilitation, certain offices of that could backfire in future concerned about the ap- Lamont House will move into 17 endeavors. pearance of the room since it is · South Lane. Long range plans Since the project will not be often used by guests for lee- call for a rehabilitation of completed until early to mid- tures, etc. Mr. Hill said that Lamont HollSe as well. The spril)g, members of the Student such upkeep· is very important importance Df such renovation Grollllds Conunittee voiced a and expects SS016 and other is vital to the future success of concern that an effort be made Social Sci~nce basement rooms Union College, since Lamont to progr·ess in a fashion that will to be painted as needed, over House operations are respon- ~e lea&t obtrusive to the func- · winter break. sible for the involvement of tlon and beauty of the College. -The mysterious disap. alumni in various ways. Center.Mr.Hillagreedandsaid · pearance of the Memorial The College Center is again he will pass our concern on to Chapel clock. Mr. Hill informed bustling with construction. This the a<iroinistration and project us that the clock remains fully time it is of a much Sm.aller supervisors. functional, but that the two scale. Work began last week on Wbile on the topic of con- clock faces have been sent out the east side of the building to straction, Mr. Hlll also said that to be r&finished with gold leaf install a gaxbage compactor. plans to replace the trailers that has :deteriorated with time. This was deemed necessary beside the Field House with a The clock should return to its perrn~nent structure were put fully functional state sometime on indefinite hold. Apparently, in the near future. Then get in on the ground ll.oor in olll !Flaroon Leaders Class progrnm for college freshmen, sophomores and juniors. You could s1art planning on a career like the men in lh!is ad have. And also bave some great advantages like: • Seniors and graduates C3ll be commissioned tbrougb the olilcer C:lndidate Class Program plans for the project were ap- The Campus Liaison · Com• proved and the college has the mittee, Student Grounds necessary funds, but there is a Committee, and Mr. mu meet growing concern amongst regularly the first Wednesday college administrators, and in of each month. Plans for a particlllar, President Morris,. second monthly meeting with that the college be given a rest the Student Grounds Com~· from ·C()nstruction. Though a mittee, Mr. Hill and Dean sincere and legitimate concern, Mammola, are currently being members of · the Student arranged. This schedule woUld Gr~1111ds Committee indicated · provide the Student Grounds that inrelation to the campus as Committee with two structured a wh~le, such a project is meetings per month with Mr. relatively minor. Furthermore; Hill, in addition to the access to hold off on campus im- Mr. Hill always provides on an provernents because of the informal basis. · • You C3ll take free c!villan llying lessons • You're coOilllissioned upon graduation • Earning $100 a month during the sdoolyear If you're looking to move up quicldy, look inlo the Marine Corps' BAsafreshmanorsophomore, you ·.---------------., commissionlngprogr:uns. You could' ~:gc:~~:::::;mg Him· · · tt.vm. 'Ove , =~~~~ ~·. sessions and earn more than $1200 . a year. during each session : • Juniors earn more than $2100 dur· , • .f .. f. I) ingoi1ete11-weeksummersession .tip (/lllCAJY /' Jti!lr!/ooldnghraiiwgoodmen. perceived. s~ntiment of being The . Student Grounds Com- \ tired.'' with campus con- mittee is working .for the stvuction may be unreasonable students. We need your con- if not outright wrong .. Fut1,1re tinued input; don't be sgy. Feel discussions with both Campas free to l!ontact any of the Liaison Committee and Student members with any concerns or Gmtmds Committee con- suggestion$. stitutents will hopefully shed new lLght 'on current campas concerns regarding future impr()vements. As. js the purpose of meetings witb Mr. Hill, the Student Gr()unds Committee ·informed Mr. Bill of various student co11cerns. The concerns in- clude: -The problem of noisy hallway l ' Beth Deaner Seth Michaels Bob Cbarlap LeAta. Jackson JeffK:Iitz 386-4354 374-0833 372-5064 3704964 374-1994 Schaffer Library will open at 12:00 noon on Su11day, November 29th following Thanksgiving Beginning that same day the Library wJII remain open for study only from 11:00 p.m. to 1 :00 a.m. Til ese extra exam study hours will be in ef.fect from Sunday, November 29th through Thursday, December 3rd. E B sp. ye tht Ur ''I' ab g,e st1 in th bll m UJ to CG Ot Tl cc pi Al a< a< ei ja a h~ C( st w fr aJ tl pi p1 v. Cl p '\\ e: p n s· s g u \1

CONCORDIENSJS,, No~ember 1Z)....._l987 Honor Code Nee.ded By CARL R. FRIEDRICH Jr. A tradition of excellence that · spans close to two hundred years. Stolen stereos. Among the finest institutions in the United States. Vandalism. ''Nobody says \so what?\ '' about a diploma here. Students g,etting beaten by ·· other students. This is Union College in 1987:.. the good, the ~bad, and the ugly. In a college with as much to boast as ours, there are too many blemishes. It is time for Union to take measures· towards adopting an honor code. . Honor Code\ and. simply sign their name. The conscience involved with writing this prevents any number of violations and allows a better, less suspicious attitude to exist between professor and student and student to student. This system .works so · well that prQfessors .there do not proctor exams. Washington and Lee University has a similar code. There students do not have locks on theirdorm doors and enjoy the confidence of -un- supervised exams as welL 1 o:Jo A./\t. - q.-oo '-fiJ,. MoN.- F ,RX. J . The infamous mail slot Page 5 FEATURES An honor code would enhance our institution tremendously. The biggest advantage of tile code would of course be to promote honesty, campuswide. Although many. would.not like to admit it, there is criminal activity here. Whether it be an engineer'S pencil, a leather - jacket, or a CD player, crime is a fact that is not going away. An honor code could greatly correct this problem. If students had an honor code which they could stand up in front of to protect themselves and their\ peers, more of our theft would result in ap• prehension, and in the long run prevent crime ln the future. An Honor Code, though, is not a system tnat ean be instituted overnight. The examples mentioned abo'Ve have. existed for generations and therefore are today accepted and respected · qualiti~s of the schools. At Union, therefore, perhaps a gradual one can be adopteq over time. . For example, begin a system of signing an honesty pledge at the end of exam papers. This is not a very difficult adaption and yet it can make a tremendous difference in the .performance .of students. The Mail Goes Where? Academic honesty . would vastly improve as well. Undera code of honor stuqents would pledge their honesty in writing which cons6ientiously would end such problems as, plagiarism, and its association, namely cheating. At schools such as Gettysburg, students simply write \I have neither given. nor recieved any unauthori;wd aid; nor-have I witnessed a violation· of the From there, each successive step would be easier, done over time. Over the relatively short · spar,t of five . t() seven years though, it can become a suc- cessful embodiment at Union. I believe this would make for a bigger and better U, and it could do nothing but . good. An Honor Code would not promote suspicion and' a militaristic environment, but ·rather a trusting and open one. I,n conclusion, with no pun intended, Why not? Union is a fantastic college, and deserves all of the good things it has. The bad can be improved, and Union can bec()me even better. FACTS ABO·UT RAPE By CATHY MARKES Everyone has pet peeves- come on,. admit it. Things that · generally make you say \Did you ever wonder ... \ You know, · things like why the shower drain is on the highest part of the bathroom .floor, so all the . water backs up around your ankles. Or why the shade either never goes up. as far as you want it to go, or catapults at the speed of light up to the top of the window. Something like why your favorite. team is never on . Monday night football. Why do these things happen? No one -~really knows, but they're enough to drive a person crazy. For example, I remember a time whE;ln I used to put all my outgoing stamped mail in a mailbox, conveniently located \, right outside Carnegie. Off to the right, out of the line of traffic, it had its place at the center ofthe·campus. OK, so the · mailroom moved for .awhile, and the blue mailbox disap.- peared. It seemed like no big deal since the \new\ Richmond mailroom bad a slot for mail, both outgoing ·and on-campns. We put everything in the same slot, and left it up to the mailroom staff to sort all our letters. That seemed·to work OK, but we accepted it as a temporary inconvenience, I think. After all, that dismal hallway in Rich- mond co~d barely fit two people side-by-side, and we took that sardine-style, elbowing over to the mail slot, in stride .. (If a mailbox had been placed outside that Richinond back entrance, l think it would have been lost. in the moat, anyway.) But now it's 1987, and the grand reopening of Carnegie is finally a reality. A new central gathering place, a place to grab a late-night cup of coffee, clean, carpeted lounges-what more could a mere college student desire? I hate to say it, but it's a mail box. Blunt, simple, to the point. In a building as spacious as it is, couldn't someone have the insight to think we'd need somewhere to put our outgoing mail? The baskets on the counter were all right, I thought. I could generally just reach over someone's shoulder in the inevitably long package line to mail my letters. But no, this procedure needed to be \·improved.\ . ' · · · · ·· ,, Now in orderto r.each t:Q.e slo,t_ .• for outgoi'ng mail, . locate(l . '. approximately two feet off the ground under the center-most part of the package window, I find myself fighting for survival day to day. Trying to simultaneously stuff a handful Rape Is A· Crime . Alcohol Or Drugs Are Not An Excuse For Sexual Abuse Rape Can :Happen Anywhere, Anytime. Rape Is Not The Victim's Fault. of correspondence amidst people's knees and duffle bags while attempting to roll open that maU slot if NOT fun. Out of all the places in the vicinity of the mail room, why was that , particular spot chosen? I've got to wonder ... Sexual Abusers, Incl-uding Gang Rapists, Could Pe .Anyone. So in closing, I'd just like to say: \Did you ever wonder why we just don't have a blue US mailbox in front of Carnegie anymore?\ HAVE YOU HAD PROBLEMS OF SECURITY ON CAMPUS? .. Has your car been broken into? The Student Forum Ad-hoc committee on security ~auld ·like to know. - Stop in to Student Forum hours-- Mon.-Thurs. 12:00 -4:00 or drop a note to Box 1318 Nelson's Boo.k Store 173 .d8y Street~ Schenectady Open: Monday thru Saturday 11 am,. 5:30pm Thursday evenings · •til9 pm S ttiaent Wor~rs ·tj{g.edea 'Dec. 28 -31st to put togetlier !l{r.gistration Pac/(r,ts for Winter iJ'erm Contact Penny !llaey at 6015 ~gistrar's Office. \ Tf\E. \))£,\Tl~ ~- Cl;.nTCL W\-hfAKt.f... ~ '!> 70 - '-OS~

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, ·November 12., 1987 Philosophy Forum On ••• the politics Of pot By JIM HANLY \I hope that thoe young people of this country, .including my own daughters~ will learn from my mistakes and heed . (the Reagans') mess11ge~\ pleade~ a disgruntled Judge Doug Gm- sburg at his final press cm- ference. Anyone who v..atched the case of Judge Ginsb!lrg unfold was certt inly strucJ.. by an over- ridir,g sense of hypocrisy surrounding till!! entire issue. Ronald B:eag!ln forced to quietly back a man who had broken a morat code that both the President .amd his wife had spent an entire adminis,tration setting up. Judge Gmsburg forced to resign llis nomination due to a practice that he ob- viously felt haiL. n() bearing on his legal abilities~ Finally, a whole coWltrr :slll'prised at an admission of drllg use from a high level ofiil!lal. Hypocrisy took no prisoners~ Ginsburg was gone in less tban a wee_k a~ter his Supreme Ct.urt nommat1on. The next ste(JJ in the process was to assess blame in an ad- ministration that has seeemed to be plagued by bad judgment and embarrassing $ituations of late. PQlicy, however, never took to the fore, the blame lied in personnel, or in lack of dutiful research. 'The War on Drugs' that the Re.agans began trns . past year was never put into question. Ironically~ it was this very policy that allowed savvy liberals to elinlinate a poten- tially radical conservative from the court. In this way, Reagan found that legislating morality is a trickier business than it appeared. Sanctim()nious policy must face the constant test of reality, and in this particular case, it mllSt wilt under it. , The reality of drug use is no more apparent than at a rather elite, private sch()()l such as Union. Judge Ginsburg's marijuana use was primarily in the college environment, as were tb.e recent admissions from two presidential can- didates. This .should raise a fundamental question to students who must face this serious contradiction in society every day. At one end we are confronted by national cam- paigns that warn us against drug abiiSe, and at the other we see conservatives buckling An Opportunity for Enlightenment By SUSAN D. SHAFFER -.\. .·E:uligbtenment. What a under at the very re~lities of their own moral line. Tile Reagans' message obviously lacks a real foothold on reality, and ignores some basic' facts of what has occurred on college campuses since the l~'s. Dr11g use is here at Union, and in that respect many of us here are law breakers. · This is the final question that must be addressed·, whether our community can tolerate such a line in such a continually hypocritical manner. Without the social pressures associated · with the real world many of us feel perfectly justified with: the use of drugs. However, as in the Ginsburg case, once we are entered into a highly judgemental and pressure-filled environment, we back away from these actions as regret~ table. There are two possible reasons for this change; either we are all fooled by drugs until we turn 24, or that our hypocrisy is as great as those that establish the .moral code . Morality is a difficult issue to legislate simply because there · are so many individual at- titudes that constitute the way people like to live. Laws, then, must be stablished on a very practical basis that will allow for the most feasible way to assure a peaceful, and productive society. Restraints on freedoms must be made (the right to kill-for example), but at the same time, they must en'.\ · sure that they are ,made in concert with the moral trends of the time. This is not an appeal for the legalization of m.arfjuana, lmt · rather a hope for an open discussion of the . issue as law and not morality. Had J.udge Ginsburg drank too much arid walked home on New Year's Eve, even Nancy could' have let that slide. The fact is that Ginsburg broke the law, and by doing so illuminated a nwnber of others who one would hesitiate to can criminals. Questions ·Of moral behavior can make any of us stray from the l3;w, and we as a nation are richer from this disobedience. Potis not racial segregation, but it is a societal reality that should be treated with more than reactionary policy. Openness is · the key to any issue, and this is- why the Reagans' attitude- backfired~ because it is closed. gl()rious thing: it is. This mor- ning I was e11lightened and my day was betterbecause of it. Of course, beiiJg the unselfish person that 1 am, I feel that I must share \i'Vi:th you, the Union community, what I myself have experienced. I must admit, however, that my intentions are not all unselfish. Recently I have noticed many long faces and sick souls roaming throughout .campus. These awry attitmies may be due to the sudden cbanges in the Schenectady -weather. This is always iL'\ritating having Mother Natme playing with our minds, and often leads to illness. These lllild moods may also have bee11 caused by the realization ()of it being the eighth week and that you are behind in your work by three weeks. There just is 110t enough time to be carefree_ 'These long faces that we see ta:ke away from everyone's day, so in order to benefit mys~lf. I share my story. Whatev-er the reasons for your Novemboer nap, hopefully they will not illterfere witll tbis opportunity foT Enlightenment. this p()wer, we often ~a~e miserable days. Feople wait m line in order to have contact with this source, yet until now no one llas been consciously aware of its affect on people. Today, several people were waiting in line, this made me uptight and angry since I did not want t() wait. However, upon realizing the powers of this being and that it was my chance, my time to know myself I became patient. We all look upto this source and forme it my own escape. I us~. this shared time to think on my own. Uninterrupted by the usual trivial anxienties, I am able t() set my priorities for the day~ sing a little song, empty my head and get myself together. The Roommate Game I have come to realize that there is a higher source of power with wllich we all, yes all, come in contact with daily. Some of u.s eKperience this being before retiring for bed, others experience it upon awakening. \Jhert: are even some who experience. this several times. a day. This morning I IJ~=id my enc()unter shortly after waking. It was this morning that I became ccm- scious of tllis power and its immense strength. It has the ability to c::hange people's moods, it is very much a cleanser andttoffers a time for self-realtzatioat. It has the ability to affeo(]t one's attitudes. We all unconsciously look up to this being. T'hrough ritual we are cleanse<! by it. The time spent with this source is so!ll- searching an!l allows us time to reflect on otlrselves. When we are unable t() ritll8lly meet with For you to be enlightened as I have been, you must bring this ritual into consciousness. Realize it as being your time for cleansing, self-realization and . to do with as you wish. Tomorrow when you are waiting in line for the shower, you will relax and patiently wait for your chance to look up to that higher being which will provide you with a time for' cleansing, warmth and peacefulness. Write for !features! Cal{ Ca.tfiy at 43 71, 9vfarjorie at 6961 or 71'enay at 381-9089 By FRANZ LITZ Bob Eubanks would have been proud had he been to Davidson last Wednesday nigbt for \The Roommate Game.\ If you were among those in .the audience, you were part of a night of laughs. If you were one of the Roommate Game con- testants, you were granted a chance to find out just how well you know the person who you've lived with over the past eight weeks. The Roommate Game is modeled directly after TV's \Tlle Newlywed Game.\ One roommate from each team is taken away, while the other is asked a series of questions concerning the absent ro()rn- mate. The team is tllen reunited. The 'ab$ent' room- mate, in order to win points, must correctly guess the an- swer his-her partner has given for eacll question. In the e11d, the team witn the most pDillts wins. Having signed up for the game ahead of time, rny roommate and I felt it necessa.,ry to \l)rief\ one another in advance. We had heard the prize to the winning roommate team was a stack of Friendly gift certificates. But more than the desire to eat a REAL mushroom burger motivated us: we were deter- mined to win. We scouted the competition. The guys down the ball had a strategy we con- sidered; to everr question, they planned to answer with \beer.\ We decided that plan wouldn't work for my roommate and I (my roonunate has a short memory). And so we contented OUf'selves with learning each other's favorite drinks, as well as a bunch of other information that soon became useless. Davidson lounge was trans- .formed into a semicircle of two ... man couches:- Though the mood was friendly at first, I sensed a certain 8IIlount of hostility in team-to-t-eam conversation. Eight weeks of food service makes a stack of Friendly gift certificates worth their weight in gold. My roommate was asked to leave tlle room. qur host, Davidson president ASIAN STUDIES CLUB MEETING· Monday, November 16th 8PM 853 Nott Street - New Members Welcome - , T'he Typing Center 1409 Curry Road REsumes - Papers -Theses - Cover letters- Personalized Stationery Call for an a-ppolntment-355-3681 REASONABLE RATES Shawn Mowry, asked the questions. \Question NO. 1: If yo11, were to bring back a member of the opposite sex to your room, where your roommate is already asleep, would. your roommate (a) let ·you have the room, (b) roll over, (c) make a pass at your date, or (d) sell tickets.\ This question was an easy two points: my roommate stands about 4 feet, 5 inche~, and weighs onl3t 110 pounds. The next question: \What drink bests describes your roommate? (a) beer, (b) milk, (c) Shirley Temple, (d) diet Coke, or, (e) Slow COM- FORTABLE Screw.\ For lack of a better answer, and remembering the answer- ''beer''-to-anything strategy, I chose answer (a). No points here. (Here's where his short mem()ry came into play.) We answered two out of three questions correctly in the first round. UnfortWlately, so did the co·ed team from first (and second) floor north. We were doing only, as well as two per- sons who weren't even living together. Unfortunately, things didn't get any better for m,y roommate and I. A girls team from second floor north tore Up the second round, answering questions like: ''What will your roommate say is your ugliest piece of clothing?\I guess I shouldhave paid more attention to what my. roonunate wore over the last eight weeks. All jeans and T-shirts have always looked the same to me. All in all, a good time was had by all who played the Room- mate Game. As for the Friendly's gift certificates, the· girls from second floor north have those. My roommate and I found another. way to get at them •.. but that's another story.

CQNCORDIENSIS, November 12 J 1987 Page ~ FEATURE·S Talk of The 'Town ·Concoriliensis asked: What. are the best and wors.t e.ating places off-campus? \succulent seafood'~ but .steer clear of the WonderBurg~r\ :Katie Hamili~tn '89 \The best is China Pavillion and Van Dyke is the worst because it's the only time I got food poisoning; it was the Chicken and Shrimp.\ \Slick~ is t:he best- Mike's \The best is Manhatten Dogs gets hollDrable mention Exchange and the worst is and the wor-sti:i.sFriendly's.\ Luigi's; I hate it, it's terrible.\ AndJ Upman '89 Nanci Redman '89 Lauri Adelstein '89 ~htos and interviews by Stan Kitzinger Behind the Scenes . .. at The Bookstore With Unearthing Restraint ByLISACHERANDE Who really chooses the grey and garnet sweatshirts sold at the bookstore? This question can be answered only after going behind the scenes at the bookstore with the temporary manager, Eli Majlaton. Majlaton took on the position in time for the recent move the bookstore underwent in Oc- tober. The move to the college center was authorized by the bookstore staff as a mov.~ necessary for convenience and a more modern facility. The bookstore employees felt that the central location of the college center and the new, spacious facility would allow them to serve students better with a larger variety and qualitity of supplies. Majlaton said that there has been a slight increase in business since the move to the college center due The to .a low stock supply prior to and a short time after the move, but expects a 20% increase in sales by the end of the year. He also said that the employees have been working hard since the move to achieve the more business-like environment with better product displays and an increase in staffing. For those wondering how grey and garnet sweatshirts are chosen, Majlaton explains the process. \The stock is selected by the employees representing various departments of the bookstore. Sales represen- tatives from different com- panies make recommendations on particUlar styles that have been selling well with other college bookstores,\ said Majlaton. By constantly monitoring product movement, the bookstore is also able to keep the shelves stocked with what the students desire most. Idol is now accepting poetry, artwork, . !lnd short stories . We will be accepting submissions all of Fall Tenn. Send original pieces to: . Joy Cybul, Box 542 - Seniors Have a grievance - use the system ' contact your class representatives.: Jennifer Scu{[y 'Davit£ Cofien Cofken .9ltfinolfi - -- - Nevertheless, the bookstorE employees hope that studen~. will feel free to come and voicE their opm1ons abotlt preferences in styles they ma;y have. The one product thE bookstore staff does not order ill text books. That task is left t<J.: the faculty of the vario~ departments. By MARK.HAUGHTON For .three weeks now I have watched the developing problems and ineffective solutions that have been applied to the resolution of the heating problems. Being a resident of Phi Sigma Kappa I suppose that I, along with my fellow :residents, have seen the brunt of the problem. As observation suggests, the slew of steam that powered its way through the manhole cover immediately outside of Phi Sig, , which rattled and jarred the cover creating ' a geyser of steam, indicated to those equally observant \Men of Maintenance\ that their skills were indeed needed. I suppose that the intention was to blow all that nasty team stuff right back into the earth. This revelation came to me after seeing that a large fan had been placed over the hole, after removing the cover of course, and activated full time. The results were mixed. Perhaps because of the In the past stadents have hem relative high density of the limited to paying by cash, checlt earth's crust the steam was or credit card. The. bookstorE refuted. Instead, the fan hopes to implement some form become a local play toy to those of an inhouse credit systeoo who passed by, whirling it about which would allow students t<J as ifit were a helicopter. make purchases without having 1 Obviously a more drastic to pay on the spot.. Inspired b~ solution needed t(} be applied. In the move to a more modern and comes the heavy artillery. A centerallocation, the bookstore i . 1967 Ford, rustic back hoe is looking forward to an ill:- moves in · for the kill. Its novative and pr<idUctive future.. operator was relentless as The bookstore staff hopes ~he \Man and His Machine'' dug students will make their· through the roots of a young opinions knowa to those wh() tree. Ripping up all in its way workbebind the scenes. this ~how of strength inspired a Undergraduate Review , Is For the Best Papers By JEA:N R. ]JEATY The Undergraduate Review is currently accepting papeTs written ab()ut topics in tile' Humanities and Social Scien- ces. Specifically, the Review publishes e}{pository writin~ - especially parts of theses. Creative writing, techni<!al writing and editorials are !lot published in this joul\'laL Submissions in a foreiilrt language are aecepted. Once a papei is submitted, the editorial board, con8isti11g of both students and professors, reviews the paper. They ded<ie if it is suitable for the Revle~V and if it meets ceita!tl predetermined standardS. If tlle submitted paper is approve<llly the editorial board, it is . recommended to the editor, Karen Lavarnway. Finally, she decides if the paper should be published. The Review is in its sixth year of publication. It is one of the few journals of its kind. Skid- more, Hamilton, and Swar- thmore colleges contribute to the Review, along with Union. Funding for the Review at Union comes from the office of Dr. · D'Andrea, Vice-President for Adademic Affairs. Without his support, and of course the worthy submissions of students, this unique publication could not exist Submit papers by Feb. 1st to Undergraduate Review through campus mail. false conscousness thiough the staff of those \Men of Main- tenance\. •• Aha!\ tlw operator declared, \I found the phone lines.\ I need not speak of the repair that followed that discovery. To follow such a show an equal show must follow. Oat came the eager teeth of the metal cutting cir- cular saw known in Schenec- tady county as \Unguarded Jaws\. Slicing its way through the sheath of steel in search of the troubled pipe. After the discovery of the troubled pipe the decision was made to replace an entire 'Section. This involved the weld.ing of. some elbows of pipe to some straight pieces of another pipe. The welder, wearing protective eye wear, proceeded with his task while :wrne curious onlookers watched at an unsafe distance. If something about visi<Jn safety remains unsettled in your stomach you are not alone. In fact, the question of safety now arises on a far larger scale. There now exists a U-shaped hole in the earth approximately ten feet deep surrounded by a over-burdened red slat fence which seems to be experiencing stretch marks at a very early age. This is an obvious hazard, one of which I would just love to see the resulting law suit. The fact remains that steam still poUrs out of the hole the tree which will die remains as a marker to the sight, and the hazard still exists. Peihaps the \Men of Maintenance\ .find this an attractive showing of their strength. More likely, this activity would suggest, to an enrolled or prospective student, the inability that the school has in dealing with a pert9nent problem. 'Nelson•s Book Store 173 J8y Street. Schenectot:ly ·Open: Monday thru Satt,Jrday 11 am· 5:30pm Thursday evenings 'til9 pm

Page 8 CONCORDIENSlSt November 12, 198'7 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Politics In G,reece The 1983 Florence Term Abroad group on a recent trip to Pisa, where they were shot by former Concordy photographer, Don Hammerma11, '76, now a freelancer working in New York City. By ANTHEE CARASSAV A.S and ANTHONY E. VRONDISSIS Editor's Note: This is tbe second article in a serjes on foreign politics. One of the most difficult tasks for a Greek is to talk objectively about the present political situation in Greece. The issue of political identity has become so vital and so extreme that the definition of a Greek has literally become tautological to that of one's political idealogy. Never in my life has_ I ever eJtpected that a country :Such as Greece, highly paridigmatic for · its ethnic unity and nationalism would find itself in a placenta of highly diversified political beliefs, and eventually give birth to a morbid creature; a society of total chaos in every · spectrum of life- The Pan- Hellenic Socialist Party (PASOK). After W.W. II, the political atmosphere in Gr-e.ece was colored by mutual suspicion, fear, and apathy as a result of world war tensions, a staggering civil war (1944-1949), and wide spread economic crisis. Because of the existing conflict between leftist and Swiss University Exchange By 'TRACEY PRYLUCK the winter and spring tempting to achieve a fairly semesters, as well as spending even distribution from the Dean's List science and 8-12 weeks at the Goetha In- engineering and science engineering majors seeking a stitute in Germany the summer departments. uniquely rewarding exchange before their exchange begins. ETH Exchange Students for the 19ll8-89 academic year German is spoken morning to receive free tuition and enough might wish to apply as an · ht t th G th In ft t \E.T.H.\ (Eidgenossiche mg a e oe a s 1 u e, money for room and board, Technische Hochsule-Swiss and students are given supper although it is up to them to find tickets to the local German lodging in Switzerland. In the Federal Institute of restaurants, but sent out alone, past. Arrangements were not Technology) ·Ex: change Scholar thereby forcing them to learn to made for Union exchange for 1988-ll9. Professor Bill order in German. The ETH has students' lodging, but the Martin of the Chemistry never expressed dissatisfaction building of \Student Houses\ Department is curently ac- with Union students' knowledge enables Union students to cepting applications for this of the German language upon reserve a room in the house for program. Union Exchange their arrival in Switzerland. the following year's excha11ge Scholars are selected by a This satisfaction is important student. committee consisting of because, as Professor Martin Exchange students have the Professor Robert Oldberg of the explained, language is very opportunity to tour Europe on Biology department, Professor important in Switzerland. the weekends and during their Eckram Hasid of the English Maturity is another factor month and a half inter-semester Department, Professor Gary considered in the selection break from March to April. This Reich of the Physics Depart- process. The committee is year's exchange student, Bob ment, Professor William looking for someone who won't Stoltz, wrote Professor Martin Thomas of the French write back, stating that he/she that he has already been to Department and Professor is unhappy and wants to come museums, two operas, and Andy Ward of the German home. While exchange students plays in Zurich. Bob took the Department, .in addition to often feel lonely during the German course at the Goethe Professor Martin. The ETH period spent in Europe prior to Institute, and he enjoys the scholar of the previous year · the arrival of the regular exchange program. also hassome input in the students on October 15 for the Students interested in the selection process. ta t f th · t t th · li t' In addition to the academic s r o e wm er erm, ey ETH can obtain app ca tons soon make friends and ab- and additional information requirements, knowledge of the solutely love the program by from·- Professor Martin in the German Jangllage is helpful, the end ofthe year. Science and Engineering but net required:·· Those The committee tries to Department, Room S339. Ap- students who are not fluent in achieve some sort of balance in plications are due the 17th or German must be prepared. to the selection procedure at- 18th of this month take a Gennan course durmg ' . · ~J\'J\.#\J\\..O\\..rJ:rJ\..r..r-'..#'\\-'J\'...IOO'\\. The Italian Club and The International House Present: Prof. Roberto Panizza Chairman of economics at the UNIVERSITA' DEAGLI STUDI DI TORINO, ITALY in a public talk: THE CRISIS OF THE INTERNATIONAL MARKET In The Music Room Of The Library FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13 AT 3:30PM For More Information Call Laura x 6824 Or Cristina x 4161 rightist factions,. Greece took tile epithet of a c()nstitut~cnal monarchy until 1973; tbe government was composed of a cabinet of ministers responsl>ile to the king, but dependent on the support of a ,popular elected parliament On April 21, 1967, extreme rightist army officers led by Colonel George Papadopoulas overthrew the government and suspended parliament. After an abortive c(}unter coup, King Constantine II was sent to exile in 1967 ; Papadopoulas became premier. The monarchy in 1973 was abolished and ·Constitutional amendments were enacted making Gre~ce a presidential parliamentary democracy, with Papadopoulos president. In November, 1973 he was ousted by an army coup led by General Phaidon Gizikas, who ,even- tually became president. Tile prevailing insta bi lit y characterizing the country .at that time advanced the Turks to invade Cyprus in 1974. Gi2ikas annoUllced that the government be returned to civilian control; to the hands of former premier Constantine Caramankis. In consequence, on August 1, 19.74, the restoration of the 1952 constitution was announced, civil rights were restored, and civilian control of the army was reasserted. At the end of 197 4, martial law, in effect since Ul()7, was lifted; · the first elections since 1964 were held on ·November 17, 1974, and finally, a new republican constitution was promulgated on Ju11e 11, 1975. With the overthrow o-f the harsh seven year dictatorship, political parties were again able to exist. Caramanlis, the \savior from the ax of Papadopoulos\ led the for- mation of the New Demcoratic Party (ND). His strategies of governing resembled those of we stern civilization. Individualism, privatism,, pluralism, co-existence bet- ween state, <:burch, and democracy were to become not only the basis of his policies so as to rehabilitate Greece, but the foUlldations of the evol~ing ND. After becoming president of the Greek Republic, the reins of ND ap.d the title of premier were placed upon one of the greatest politicians in the era of \metapolitics George Rallis. Although small in papulat·ity at the time, the Pan-Hellanic Socialistic movement (PASOK), lt~d by An(ireas Papandreou, started gaining political momentum towards the end of Caramanlis' tenure. The party advocated, as it still does today, the separation of church and state, equality of sexes, public ownerShip of m()nastery wealth, the credit system, the \basic unit of production\ 4 and the establish- ment of cooperative farms. The Greek Communist Party increased its popular·ity through its. first legali2ation since 1!t47. Important, however to n()te, is tbat the Communist Party was, and still is, split into two fac- tions. The \exterior\ faction (KKE-ex) which is· oriented towards Soviet policy, and the \interior\ faction which is western oriented and believes that the party should adopt the ideology of local conditions. The general secretary ·of the first is Florakis, wbile the latter's is Kirkos the most profound rhetoric speaker existing today, in my opinion. Elections 11'81: The duel between ND and PASOK .CCOCOOtlOCCit:IICIOOOOCI~COt:IIOCOOCCCOOOCIOCICICO\~COCOOOC begins. The Greek populace had had en()ugh of con~ervatism. The slogan for 'reform; was echoed all over Greece. Europe was ex;periencing a · change in politi<;al thought. Socialism had ·made its debut in France. In Greece the eve of Socialist reform signaled the eve of its utmost annihilation. Papan- dreou launched one of the biggest presidential campaigns .ever seen in Greece. His charismatic demagoguery led the Greeks .into a trance-like state. From .city to city, he went promising a better future, a flourisbing economy, the dismantlement of American bases stationed in Greece, an ''independence\ from the NATO aJ.liance, free hospitalization, increases in job opportunities, the \cut-off\ from the European Economic CoiiUhunity (EEC), etc. His so called \Contract with the masses'' was a success, a best seller for Greece. The color green quickly had eovered every surface of the country, like the plague. Riots were slowly starting to appear in the media. The Neo-Democratics were numb. Rallis' last words as premier to the populace was ''Beware of the difficult times that are to come.\ With the coming year, ND experienced rapid reform and restructure. Evangelos Averoff was elected as. leader of the party. After two years, PASOK statistics showed that its popularity had substantially decrea.sed; a dissatisfaction with policy making was more profound and evident among the major cities. Violent rioting surfaced among followers of both parties. The country was slowly ''partitioned\ ideologically. Eledtons 1985: Greece is in a state of ideotogical uproar. Papandreou raged again with his ambiguous dialect per- suading the populace that they are \passing through an ex- tremely tight stenopo\ and that the days of actual reform are \just around the corner.'; A veroff, Mitsotakis, and Stefanopoulos became the great rhetoric trio of the ND party. Facts, along with esemplified eloquence, became the weapons of the party. The existence of P ASOK was attacked through · peruasive materials, but Papandreou in \dead\ response initiated a war of insUlts. International media most corr~ctly characterized them as \infants in politicS\. Governmental projects were completed, new jobs were created, free hospitalization was increased, benefits to the fanners were given,. etc., all temporary facades to increase PASOK's popularity and event11ally win the election. The Pan~l:lellenic Socialist Party won again scarring the country of Greece for another four years. With. a total of seven gover- ning years, Premier Papan- dreou has simply proven to be one of the utmost suffists, and demagogues in Greece's era of modern politics. Through his speeches, which resembled the writing of Phidiu, he was able to confuse the people to such a degree; so that at one point, they stopped seeing P ASOK as a party of new ideological beliefs ... but instead as a single figure, Andreas Papandreou. In short, they became hypnotized by his elOquence in lying. As Kyriakos Mitsotakis, son of the present leader of ND and a Sea GREECE on next page ,

CON~QRDIENSIS, Novembe.r 12, 1987 Page 9 -INTERNATIONAL FEATURES • A Ye·ar Well Spent ID Germany . ' ~~-- :•. ·.::.:._ • > ·.I; \, By NICK PICCIRILLO . H[W. many o~ us . know that Berlm1s not the cap1talof West Germany or that it isn't even a part of Tb.e Federal Republic. Two years ago, i would have scored a 50 on the above qui,z. At that time I was taking German for the 'first time here at Union and applying to study for a year in Germany .. It was a dream cornetrue When sometime· later I found myself doing exactly that. Despite my knowledge abollt the location ofthe capital, I kl!ew I could still grow, and enrich my understanding of Gertnany and its pe()ple through this exp(lriehce. . · Tile German .American Club, which in association with Union College, sponsors this ex- change,. placed me into the University of Karlsruhe. However, with the excuSe of havillgto learn German,. I spent the.sununer ·Of 1986 in Germany as well. I was fascinated at first by tlle scenery of the medieval German town I was living in. Fm the first time I was entering bars and Clubs without showing an T.D. I had unlimited acces~ to \real\ beer, and I was ex- periEncing the.Autob2:lhn, where therE E~ist no speed limits, and a Mercedes-Benz is just another car. <Outing the summer, I met many people from all over the worl'd who were learning Germ.an, most of whom were in their 20's .. We understood each other great. After all, we all were there to enjoy being away from college or work and having no real outside pressures. Unfortunately, our collta:et .with Germans was min1mal. One could say we were from the outside looking in, enjoying the fine sights, .but not really understanding what Germany was all about. I did discover something through all this. Old ladies love to push ahead of people in long lines. Finally one day a German taught me to say, \Don't push! Retired people have time.\ Also, my friends and I were astonished to hear strangers sar \shitty' when asked \how are you.\ Germans are very direct,. unlike Americans who say it's going well even when shitty would be a more accurate description of their mood. 'rhe smnmer was quickly 'over, and I was faced with diffkult separations from friends; people whom I share memories of Berlin, Heidelbrug, Switzerland, and MIJ1lich with. I would later visit many of them in Paris, Oxford, Stofkholm, Brussels, and Milano. rn early October I arrived in the· city of Karlsruhe, where I W!Hlld spend ·the next ten months. Having had a great summer, I felt I would be the exception to all those talked ab<>ut culture shocks and homesickness. My stay got off to tile .right start as soon as I discovered the Burger_~ing and McDonald's in town. These are not too popular · among Ger- mans, who generally view Americans as fast food eaters. In addition, at crossroads, pedestrians. woul<l wait for the. gr.een light to cross, even if there was nothfug :in sight. Sidewalks had a certain color, one color was for bikes and another color was for pedestrians. I was fortunate enough to .be living in a dorm With lOB. students, most of whom were German. During the first week:s, I confidently took the initiative With others, but nobody seemed receptive. No one was that impressed at having an American on the floor. No pjty was given to me becasue of my not yet fluent German. Many students went home on weekends, and topies of conversati(n:i constantly were of.a serious nature. I thought to myself, these. people are most. insensitive and are under great pressures. At the University, I was down to a mere three courses by the third week. Lectures were usually heard by 300 students. There was no registration, no roll call, just a lot of theory and sometimes noise during the lecture. We as Americans would probably find these circumstances abominable at any university, as I did. Actually, it is quite effective. No one familiar with German production, for example, could make the claim that they need \a better educational system. The work load is actually less because the emphasis is placed on un- derstanding rather than analytical skills. Many aspects of the subjects I took in Ger- many, I could probably never have learned in the United · States, and vice versa. I not . only adapted to the educational system, but those heartless people in my dorm became the best people I bad ever met. They were very considerate, but also crazy sometimes, which balanced those many serious con- versations I was starteing to get more involved in. Parties became a weekly event, and not many people left on party weekend&. The occasional toast to the German-American friendship also contributed greatly to what were becoming genUine friendships. All my prejudices succumbed, and .so did theirs. In the second semester the other students chose me to be floor speaker and to be on The Dorm Com- mittee. In retrospect, these fourteen months were the most meaningful thus far in my life. Living in North America and in a country so big, we sometimes become isolated from other cultures and do not really develop an understanding of them. It is easy to put other customs and ways d()wn, especially if we haven't ex-· perienced them, as I did. Throughout Europe, .people are exposed to Americans, either as soldiers. or tourists, and they judge Americans. Many questio-n our way of life probably because it is different from theirs and they have never lived in America. Once you are forced to live with a different mentality, it not only becomes acceptable, · but it actually becomes part of yours. My experience is proof of this. I d() not remember going to Burger King or McDonald's after the first couple of months. By the way, the capital -of West Ger- many is Bonn and Berlin is still an. occupational zone of the WWII allies. Enjoy :By AIME SIMON Italian director Michelangelo Antonioni modified the neo- realistic style that emerged in the late 1940's. Although the neo-realists had focused on soCial problems and their effect on indi:viduals, they had to a great extent remained outside their characters. In contrast, Antonioni was able to penetrate the human conscience while still maintaining a realistic setting. For the most part, his films deal with individual motivations and relationships in the context of a social at- mosphere. The society he chooses to ex:amine is sick with distorted values and characters who are plagued by alienation, Nick amusing himself in-Germany • • • L'avventura idleness, and lack of com- mitment. His use of long slow moving scenes, highly evocative images, and ad- vances in sound tecl:mique, add irnmea•sllfably to the mood of his films. \L' Avventura\ (1960) is one of Antonioni's last great films. It is the story of three friends who are pleasurably exploring 3 small island. Anna, a beautiful but bored young .woman, disappears. Her friends begin to search the island, but incapable of becoming deeply involved and lacking all moral con- science, they soon lose interest. Instead Sandro, Anna's boy friends, and Claudia make love impulsively in an open field. After this moment of bliss, the newly found lovers immediately feel awkward and alienated from each other. The fragile balance has been disturbed, tension bUilds, boundaries are erected as the two sexes c<>me into conflict. Therefore, the search for Anna becomes a search for emtional balance. The dreary affair continues through endless parties, betrayals, and reconciliations, and leads to Sandro's ultimate debasement, unenjoyably making love to a starlet. Although the film presents an essentially pessimistic view of human relations, Antonioni leaves the viewer with a final image of hope. • • • Greece pres.ent the proble:ql ,to ·.t~e in- ternational court at Hague .. The Turks refused. Hence, the characterization of stub- bornness and unwillingness to resolve the omin()US problem between Greece and Turkey should not be placed, as is done by western media, upon t}le figure of Papandreou, but in- stead on Ozal. Continued from precding page prominent scholar at Harvard University, states ·~ ... The premier showed such in- consistency in his years of rule, that no clear objectives and intenti()ns of his policies could ever be depicted in any stage of his tenure. Specifically, he stated that the American bases in Greece be lifted by 1988. When meeting with American officials in 1983, in order to. discuss, as he characterized it, \the termination of American threat terror within Greece,\ he misled and lied to the people, telling them that PASOK's initial goal in .foreign policy was accomplished. The truth, however, as revealed later upon the ()Utcome of. th~ Greek~ American talks, was that the issue be simply \re-discussed\ in 19S8. No act of terminating the agreement was made clear. The same occurred with the issue in terminating Greek membership within the EEC. Up until today, the important and significant soUJ;ces of monetary help is the European Community. A sizeable amount of major project building that occurred within Greece during the last four years has simply been mere continuations of the balance\ of unempl()yment. In other words, he created in- stitutions and organizations of no importance whatsoever. He created job openings that required the minimwn amount of intellect and education; moreover, that acted as a negative influence on the prevailing economic crisis. One trivial but significant example of such job opportunities is that of the Larissa Forest depart- ment. Larissa is a city that has no forests, yet the percentage of socialist popularity within it is significant. Five people were appointed heads of this organization in an office which had only two desks. Orders came and since no more desks could be supplied, a rotating proced11re had to be worked o11t. While the two would stay at the office for limited time, the other three were ''stationed\ in the neighborhood cafe. The ac• tuality ()f the P ASOK govern- ment hardly differs from the ex:ample stated above. .International. Films L'awentura (1960)' Michelangelo Antonioni Nov. 18 at the College Center at 7:30p.m. 1/ ND party 1 s pre-planned en- terprises funded by. the EEC, · hat had been fulfilled during the conservative regime. Papan- dreou beautifully manipulated the situation, and the faUacy of In addition to the broad issue of unemployment, highly distinguished pers()nnel of the civil services were \layed off\ mainly due to the1r con- servative political beliefs and were replaced by lazy, less educated followers of P ASOK. In sllort, P ASOK did not pursue the elevation of the govern- ment•s civil services by hiring more experienced and educated personnel, but instead lowered the status and mQmentum of intellectuals and filled the government with incompetent rank and file. Total chaos. The nostalgic and inspfficient had folind resonance with P ASOK. One can go on for pages and pages analyzing an,d criticizing the present political situation of Greece. The fact of the matter is that PASOK was a self- imposed catastrophe of the Greek people. A re-awakening, however, and the learning for a figure of sa voir like Caraman us is now rehabilitated through t ;1e highly charismatic polNci.m Constantine Mitsota!ds His dedication and contri:mtion to the reorganization of ND has not only substantially increased its popularity, but also made it extremely difficult for the Socialist Party to exist. The question is will he make it in· the next elections, or will Papandreou pull more aces from his sleeve. Personally, I believe that Papandreou is . \enjoying\ the last breathof his leadership... so let the guy tool around as he is doing with is mistress. Let him \screw\ around with somebody else for a change. ... Seven years is already enough for the Greek society. I.S. U. TABLE Every Friday 12:30-1 :30, Trois Hommes et unCouffin Presented·bythe French Club Mond.ay, Nov. 16 at 7:15pm . in the basement of Webster. Asian Stu,dies Club 853 Nott .St. NEW MEMBERS WELCOME rapid short term ac- complishments became in· creased within the socialist populace's mind. The national .debt increased from ap- proximately 4.5 billion dollars in 1981 to 20 billion according to the 1981 figures. In responset unemployment, a non- problematic issue before 1981, increased approximately by 30 perc-ent. Papandereou's policy reflected a so called \.artificial The only credit that can be given to Papandreou is his strategies and tactics dealing with the issue of Turkey. With the long time disputes of the Aegean, Papandreou offered to DUTCH HOLLOW PUB Active Members discuss latest issues. CALL NICHOLAS X6826 OR UNA X4439 l· '

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, November 12, 1987 LETTERS .. (f!.JJliOlrbirnsis F'ouniln/ ilt ( in1011 Col/~ 1877 Rethink Alexander Lane_ Strategy Psychic Wars Three years ago during the pre-registration we found ourselves involved in a mob-scene, literally fighting to get into courses. This year we face another battle, that of \card courses.\ Cards are given out by each department according to their own criteria. Some cards are given out according to th.e infamous first-come-first-serve method (even though this method has supposedly been outlawed). Others have the \majors first, followed by need\ method and some prefer the seniority setup. There is also a new underclassmen priority system. Basically all these variations end up causing a lot of confusion. The economic and Political Science departments send mailings to students in their \majors\ indicating what the card course policy is. Thus eliminating some of the · confusion. This practice should be adapted by all of the departments. Prior to pre-registration card course information should be released explaining the policies for enrollment in various courses. ' Dear Editor: It has taken me four years to actually get out <Jf the personals and into the met~t and potatoes of our newspapef.!; the letters-to- the-editor section. However, I have not beel) sitting a~onnd idly wasting my tin). e. Ratner, I've been watching and waiting for the moment t() arrive for me to make my entrance. So, without further adieu, I'd just like to voice my opinion in this utilitarian utopia of ours and say that I think tlte CHAINS ON ALEXANDER LANE. STINK! There, I've done it; I feel so · much better no-w. But, I must g() ()n; for I would not be demonstrating the wise . philosophical skills I have picked up in the lt~st four years here, if J did n()t support my opinion with reason-s, of which I have two. First of all,. what about the effects these chains have on the ESCORT SEJ;t- VICE? It's not that the ·Escort Service had already been . fending, off complaints about tardiness. Now it's most traversed path has been shut off and according to my own ''unofficial\ IJOU of escort service drivers, it there:fore takes them twice as long to get anywhere; let alone their destination. My second ancl perhaps most crucial point is the detrimental effect these chains have on our campus security in general. Don't we all .feel safe to ltnow that most of our dQwn-camplis living residences are literally< locked out from our securitY\ forces? ! Because of these chains, in order to respond to a call from Davidson, Fox, South, and Webster, our security ca·rs, must tackle the streets of Schenectady. This: means thtiy may not use their emergen(y lights. They must obey afl traffic ·regulations, which in- cludes tow lights, and a thirty- roue an hour speed zone. Response time has been· in- creased by roughly 3-4 mi!lutes, according to another one nf .my \unofficial\ polls. An interesting twist to this if! the fact that these chains arE mysteriously opened from 4: ID· 5:30 p.m. every day. Another vicious rumor (they seem to bE running rampant arolln€1 campus, don't they) bas it ths_t this opening is to help with tilE traffic flow on campus. Well, thank God, the administratioll isntt inconvenienced on tllEir way home to their SAFE plac~ of residence. {It makes rnuc:h more $~nse to inconvenience tll.e security forces of· the ~mplls than our professors and od• ministrators.) 'l'he interestin.g twist gets evert \twistier\ i£ we, recall that the reason the chairls were put up in the first plac:e · was to deter unnecessary traffic by off-campus users. Havhg been a Schenectady resident, or something 'Similar. my whole life long (yes, r admit I'm ·a doid), I'm -cDnfident in saying that 4:00-5:.30.is the time of GE rush hour traffic. By opening the gates during these hours, we are only inviting that which we were in-itially · trying to deter .. .-rush hour traffic .from Schenectady on its way out to the suburbs via Van Vranken. This makes complete logical sense; wouldn't you agree Prof. Kaminsky? In conClusion, I would like to offer my words .of wisdom, which four years and tens of thousands of dollars have helped me formulate: HOW ABOU'l' SPEED BUMPS OR DIPS?! Oh no, there I go rambling utter nonsense again. There's obviously ho reason how speed bur.1ps of dips could serve the same purpose of eliminating unnecessary speed an!} traffic, while simultaneously preventing some ofthe hurdles our security and escort services are now fac::ing, .. or could they7 I leave you with this. final question to ponder, before I return to my \regular column\ in the per- sonals: How valuable is our safety: is it worth rethinking the present strategy of deterrence on Alex.11nder Lane? I think it is I Mary Ann Du.nham '88 At the end of last year the department chairmen decided to reserve a majority of seats in introductory level courses for freshmen. This decision was made because underclassmen were continually being shut out of introductory level courses. The Registrar's office reminded the department of this decision in a memo this fall. Apparently in some cases this decision was interpreted to the extreme and no seniors were allowed in several courses. Rape: Myths and Realities Upperclassmen who were cut out of introductory level courses as freshmen and sophmores, are left out in the cold once again. What happens to ail this encouragement about getting a well-rounded liberal learning education? How can you in this situation? Our first responsible is to fulfill the requirements for our majors and liberal learning. When we finally have free electives we get closed out of introductory classes. The archaic first-come-first-serve method of aquiri.ng cards must be eliminated. In the future the various policies for card courses should be advertised. Finally, the college must support a liberal learning education by insuring that upperclassmen can use their electives to receive a well-rounded education. (See letters page 11 ). ''Thank Yon for Your Support\ Concordiensis has recieved some kind favors recently, and we·· would like to take this opportunity to thank those who helped: Physical Plant for badly-needed renovations on our darkroom; the Computer Center for loaning us some tools at a critical time; the nighttime cleaning crew in the College Center for keeping this office decent; Mrs. Marra for help with billing and sending things our way; and Professor Schmidt for keeping our troublesome computers in line. We appreciate all your help immensely. Often it's the little things that keep us running. To the Editor: The following are excerpts from a paper entitled Campus Gang Rape: Pt~rty Games? by Julie K. Ehrhart and Bernice R. Sandler. MYTHS AND REAUTlES ABOUT RAPE \It wasn't rape because she didn't resist.\ Many people erroneously believe that a normal healthy woman can't be raped if she puts up a struggle. · It is common f(lr\ rape survivors to indicate that they fea11ed for their lives and were im- mobilized l>y that fear. Additionally, few women are trained either physically or mentally to defend themselves. In a gang ra}le situation, the sheer number of assaitants is enough to inhibit a woman's resistance. Often the woman's protest may not be seen as a All Letters to the Editor must be typ~d double-spaced and submitted l:>y 4 p.m .. each Tuesday be-fore publication. All letters must be signed by no more than f()ur people and all writers sflould provide their addresses a.nd phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensjs reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of. good taste. Letters to the Edit()r and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis protest, the erroneous belief that woman's \No\ is really a \Yes.\ The use of drugs ando()i alcohol by the attacker(s) ~nd. the victim may also confllSe tbe issue because the victim is- unconscious or unable to give informed consent; never- theless, it is still rape. \'!'here are many false reports about rape.\ Only abrut two percent of all rape :ami related sex charges are determined to be false, tile same percentage as for otil:el:' felonies. Although many cas:es are dropped because of in- sufficient evidence for con- viction, this should not · be confused with ·false reporting. These are two common misconceptions we wanted to clarify. Sincerely, Concerned Students Editor's Note: The students who submitted this editorial are members of the Ad-Hoc Committee Investigating Sexual Agression. - - Dear OUi watcl were inter' need4 highE spriri nece: tense but r in : prerE andJ · Th: .affec stUdE affec at U bavi.J over disct cour: Shut whic cour; To tl Wl reali few trim fact< fron so f~ sche ontl chal Af Nov' SUp( final thro fin a: Nee' is 1 mar oppc a sst Cbol is aJ in tl adn how stal to COD' and frm Sun not WltJ my sev, PrE For thif! tun sch E obs hor hol: Th< ati< I II '-

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, November 12, 1987 Psychic Wars Three years ago during the pre-registration we found ourselves invohed in a mob scene, literally fighting to get in tOo courses. This year we face another battle, that of \card courses.\ Cards are given out by each department according to their own criteria. Some cards are given out according to the infamous first-come-first-serve method (even though this method has supposedly been outlawed). Others have the \majors first~ followed by need\ method and some prefer the seniority setup. There is also a new underclassmen priority system. Basically all these variations end up causing a lot of confusion. The economic and Political Science departments send mailings to students in their \majors\ indicating what the card course policy is. Thus eliminating some of the confusion. This practice should be adapted by all of the departments. Prior to pre-registration card course information should be released explaining the policies for enrollment in various courses. At the end of last year the department chairmen decided to reserve a majority of seats in introductory level courses for freshmen. This decision was made because underclassmen were continually being shut out of introductory level courses. The Registrar's office reminded the department of this decision in a memo this fall. Apparently in some cases this decision was interpreted to the extreme and no seniors were allowed in several courses. Upperclassmen whc were cut out of introductory level courses as freshmen and sophmores, are left out in the cold once again. What happens to all this encouragement about getting a well-rounded liberal learning education?' How can you in this situation? Our first responsible is to fulfill the requirements for our majors and liberal learning. When we finally have free electives we get closed out of introductory classes. The archaic first-come-first-serve method of aquiring cards must be eliminated. In the future the various policies for card courses should be advertised. Finally, the college must support a liberal learning education by insuring that upperclassmen can use their electives to receive a well-rounded educiltion. (See letters page 11 ). ''Thank You for Your Support\ Concordiensis has recieved some kind favors recently, and we· would like to take this opportunity to thank those who helped: Physical Plant for badly -needed renovations on our darkroom; the Computer Center for loaning us some tools at a critical time; the nighttime cleaning crew in the College Center for keeping this office decent; Mrs. Marra for help with billing and sending things ollf way; and Professor Schmidt for keeping our trotJblesome computers in line. We appreciate all y()u.r help immensely. Often itts the little things that keep us running. LETTERS Rethink Alexander Lane Strategy Dear Editor: It has taken me four years to actuaUy get out of the personals and into the meat and potatoes of our newspaper, the letters-to- the-editor section. However, I have not l>eeiJ sitting around idly wasting my time. Rather, I've been watching and waiting for the moment to arrive for me to make my entrance. So, without further adieu, I'd just like to voice my opinion in this utilitarian utopia of ours and say that I think the CHAINS ON ALEXANDER LANE STINK! There, I've done it; I feel so much better now. But, I must go on; for I would not be demonstrating the wise philosophical skills I have picked up in the last four years here, if I did not support my opinion with reasons, of which I have two. First of all, w.hat about the effects these chains have on the ESCORT SER· VICE? It's not that the Escort Service had already been fending off complaints about tardiness. Now it's most traversed path has been shut off and according to my own \unofficial\ poll of escort service drivers, it therefore takes them twice as long to get anywhere, let alone their destination. My second and perhaps most crucial point is the detrimental effect these chains have on our campus security in general. Don't we all feel safe to know that most of our dewn-campus living residences are literally locked out from our security fo.rces? l Because ·of these chains, in order to respond to a cali from Davidson, Fox, South, and Webster, our security cars :tnust tackle the streets of Schenectady. This means they may not use their emergency lights. They must obey all traffic regulations, which in- cludes tow lights, and a thirty- mue an hour speed zone. Response time has been in- creased by ro1:1ghly 3-4 m~nutes, according to another one of my \tmofficial\ polls. An interesting twist to this is the fact that these chaiHs al'e mysteriously opened from 4:00- 5:30 p.m. every day. Another vicious rumor (they seem to be running rampant around campus, don't they) has it that this opening is to help with the traffic flow on campus. Well, thank God, the administratioH isn't inconvenienced on their way home to their SAFE place of residence. (It makes much more sense to inconvenience the security forces of the campus than our professors and ad- ministrators.) The interesting twist gets even \twistier\ if we recall that the reason the chains were put up in the first place was to deter unnecessary traffic by off-campus users. Having been a Schenectady resident, or something similar, my whole life long (yes, I admit I'm ·a doid), I'm confident in saying that 4:00-5:30 is the time of GE rush hour traffic. By opening the gates during these hours, we are only inviting that which we were initially trying to deter ... rush hour traffic from Schenectady on its way out to the suburbs via Van Vranken. This makes complete logical sense; wouldn't you agree Prof. Kaminsky? In conclusion, I W@Uld like to offer my words of wisdom, which four years and tens of thousands of dollars have helped me formulate: HOW ABOUT SPEED BUMPS OR DIPS?! Oh no, there I go rambling utter nonsense again. There's obviously no reason how speed bur.1ps of dips could serve the sarne purpose of eliminating unnecessary· speed and traffic, while simultaneoasly preventing some of the hurdles our security and escort services are now facing ... or could they? I leave you with this final question to ponder, before I return to my \regular column\ in the per- sonals: How valuable is our safety: is it worth rethinking the present strategy of deterrence on Alex1:1nder Lane? I think it is! Mary ABn Dunham '88 Rape: Myths and Realities To the Editor: The following are excerpts from a paper entitled Campus Gang Rape: Party Games? by Julie K. Ehrhart and Bernice R. Sandler. MYTHS AND REALITIES ABOUT RAPE \It wasn't rape because she didn't resist.\ Many people erroneously believe that a normal healthy woman can't be raped if she puts up a struggle. It is common for rape survivors to indicate that they feared for their lives and were im- mobilized by that fear. Additionally, few women are trained either physically or mentally to defend themselves. In a gang rape situation, the sheer number of assailants is enough to inhibit a woman's resistance. Often the woman's protest may not be seen as a. All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis protest, the erroneous belief that W()man's \No\ is really a \Yes.\ The use of drugs and-or alcohol by the attacker(s) ancl the victim may also confuse the issue because the victim is unconscious or unable to give informed consent; never- theless, it is still rape. \There are many false reports about rape.'' Only about two percent of all rape and related sex charges are determined to be false, tile same percentage as for other felonies. Although many cases are dropped because of in- sufficient evidence for con- viction, this should not be confused with false reporting. These are two common misconceptions we wanted to clarify. Sincerely, Concerned Students Editor's Note: The students who submitted this editorial are members of the Ad-Hoc Committee Investigating Sexual Agression. - Dear Du: watcl were in.ter1 need1 highE sprin nece~ tense but r in : prert and J Th: affec studE affec at U haviJ over disct cour: shut whic cour; To tl W1 reali few trim fact< frorr so fl sche on tl chal Af Nov, SUPI final thro fin a: Nee' is 1 mar oppc asst choc is a1 in tl adrr how sta) to COD' and frm Sun not unti my sev PrE For thi~ tur1 sch E obs hor hol Th: ati< II i_

CONCORDIENSIS, November 12, 1981 Page 11 LETTERS· Student Discontent With Preregistration Pre-Registration Publicity A Problem Pressured Profs Provoke Protest Dear Editor: During the past week, I have watched as many of my friends were shut out of courses which interested them or which they .... needed to enable them to take a higher level course during the spring semester. This was not necessarily caused by the in- -tense popularity of the courses, · but rather the lack of publicity in stating the dates or preregistration for card courses and for picking up cards. · This problem probably did not affect the maj9rity of the student body, but I know that it affected many of the freshmen at Union.· Were it not for my having the good fortune to. overhear · my suitemate discussing ~igning up for card course~, I too, might have been Shut out of the card courses which will comprise my entir-e course schedule ne~t semester. & Freshmen need to 'be clearly informed of the registration dates .for card courses. A single line in non~boldface tYJJe in the middle. of a page ·of instructions stating that November 4 was the day to .sign up .for ca}'d courses is not acceptable. Registration dates were reviewed by Residential and Orientation Advisers during Freshman Orientation, and appointments with academic advisers were pre-arranged. Freshmen should have been ·better informed of the d~tes for registration this term, or at least forewarned last term that they would be completely on their own in the future. Since freshmen are the last to preregister for. courses, they rely ,more heavily on card courses than other Union students in guaranteeing that they will get into the courses whi.ch most interest them during the subsequent semester. I believe that this college~s failure to consider freshmen ine:w.perience in not overly publicizing registration requirements was a grave error. I realize tl::tat many hardened, experienced upperclassmen, reading this letter will consider the problem I am describing an ·unfortunate learning ex- perience .for freshmen, but one which they should learn the bard way. However, I am sure that, upon careful recon- sideration, these students will adopt a more benevolent and understanding attitude toward the less experienced Union Dutchmen and support their request for greater advertising of preregistration dates in the future. Sincerely, Tracey Pryluck '91 Open C·ampus During Thanks giving To the Editor: situation. Sincerely, Debra B. Honig I aoo writing to express my extl'eme disappointrnen:t in the pre•JJegistration. syst.em in wlli<:b we are forced to ciJntend with each term. I have tro'lllble understanding why an :efficient system cannot be developed to replace the current process wlli~b continuously fail$ to meet the academic needs ofstudents and faculty alike. Tllroughout my experiell,ce at Union overthe past three years, I have been witness to the consistent failure t~ ac- conunodate for students in poJJular courses. Particularly, this creates unnetCessary aggravation when a st111ient is trying to fulfill Liberal Lear- ning credits required by the college. Another weakness 'is the ''.first come, first served\ systEm for distributi:Ilg cards, utibed by most departments. This system favors thiO~e who get up .the earliest. a11d not necessarily those who !lave a genuine interest in the dass. Finally, I feel this pc()cedure produces unneeded tension betV/een frustrated students andpressuredfaculty. We must remember that only through mutual cooperation will be be able to achieve our goals. I was prompted to write this letter because of my un- successfulattempts to acquire a card for Technological Values, a course that I was interested in. . as well as being a requirement in order for me to graduate after next term. Not only was it impossible to get on the list at 8:30 in the morning, but the .professor refused to speak with me about ·my situation. At the recom- mendation of others, I carefully wrote a letter outlining my reasons for wanting to take the course. Despite my efforts, I was still rudely turned away with no recourse available. As a result of the professor's attitude, I have since lost in- terest in Technological Values. However, I would hope that incidents such as these can be corrected for future students. Sincerely, Nilgun Vigit '8~ When I applied to Union, I realized that there were quite a few d-isadvantages to a trimester school. However; that factor did not discour~ge me. from coming here. I have found, so far, that I can adapt to the schedule. This term's schedule, on the other hand, poses quite a challenge. school finds it necessary to make this exception, the least it could do is not to closedown the whole campus for four days! Food service may operate on a per day basis, and therefore . exclude Wednesday through .Sunday in figuring out the cost of a meal plan. But under the Ode to Dean Wood After classes end on Tuesday, November 24, we have what is supposed to be preparation for final exanis from Wednesday through Sunday night, with finals on . Monday morning. Needless to say, Thanksgiving is Thursday night. No doubt, many students will take the opportunity to go home. Yet I assume that some students will choose to stay here, because it is an inconvenience to go home in the midst of everything. The administration did not realize, however, that the option of staying on campus would pose to be even more of an in- convenience if both food service and the library were closed from Wednesday through Sunday. (Many students were not even aware of the problem wttil this past week; however, my own complaint originated several weeks ago by tellingthe President of the Student Forum.) It seems atrocious that this academic institution would turn this already unattractive schedule into a no-win situation. Even more ridiculous is the observation that Union does not honor any other national holiday, but it is eager to treat Thanksgiving-finals prepar- ation week as a vacation. If the circumstances, there should be To the Editor; some provisions for the people staying here, and for the people I just thought a letter would who go horne yet return before be in order to express warmth Sunday. As for the library, I do . and undying appreciation to a not see what the obstacles are to man who has made my college extending hours. experience what it is tOdflY. Much to my surprise, I found Certainly, one of the basic out that this whole problem will human rights is, or should be, be prevented from happening the right to take a shower. again, because the · calendar However, Dean Wood has other system is .going to be changed. ideas ... At the beginning of the Dean Daniels and the year, students living in F'ox Registrar, Dwight Wolf, ex.~ lower level found that all the plained that as of next year, showers spewed hot scalding classes will always begin the water whenever a toilet was first Wednesday after Labor .flushed anywhere within the Day Weekend. Because we will building. A petition was drawn always start earlier, we will up protesting the situation and always finish finals before was signed by all the residents Thanksgiving. The school has of the lower level. The petition previously ·determined the was given to Dean Wood and starting date based on the sev:eral further protests were Jewish holidays, so that the first made by the R.A .. Despite these few days of class do not clash complaints, and a personal with the h<>lidays. This has invitati«m to Dean Wood to take meant starting school a shower there while residents somewhere between September flushed the toilets, he promptly 10 and 20. - ignored the situation. Upon a I believe that this modified third complaint, action was calendar system is milch more taken to correct the matter-on sensible than the present one. November 2, water tern- However I hope that the school perature was lowered so. that it will make things more con- was lukewarm, at best, and venient for the students under often there was no hot watel' at our present predicament, which all. This is still the present is only two weeks away. I hope statusinFoxNorth. that the school acts on thP- When the lottery system was proposals that are now under being debated last year, I consideration to ameliorate the assembled a group of twelve UNION COLLEGE STUDENT FORUM AGENDA FOR THURSDAY NOVEMBER 12, 1987 I. Committee reports: 1. Academic Affairs Council 5. Student Affairs Council 2. Committ(!e on Committees 6. l!lterfratemity Council 3. Finance Committee 7. Panhellenic 4. Trustees Reports IL Ad-Hoc Committee Reports: 1. Gel- Time Committee Members: Kristen Nelson, Jeffrey Berkowitz, Micheal Hiller. Discussion of Surveys on ''Effectiveness\ Publicity-How to Advertise Surveys. 2. Security Committee: Members: len Scully (chr), Joe Voyticky, Peter Costa, Mike Van Hom, Keith Bemis, Jeffrey Berkowitz. Damage arid Theft Chronology and Usting Security Problem areas 3. Rape Awareness Committee: Members: Wendy Endress (chr), Aaron Carrel, Jenn Scully,. Lou Schick Update :Progress of the Committee. 4. Committee on the Closing of Facilities during Break. Members: Geri Mackey, Mark Webster, Aaron Carrel (chr), Michael Hiller Update Progress . Letter to Administrators and Concordiensis Review of Student Survey ill. Old Business: 1. Administration's Phone Listing fot Students (David Cohen) 2 Grounds Committee Liason (Colleen Adinolfi) Report on Campus Lighting. 3. Legal Consultation\Will We Have A LaWyer On Cam'pus? · How Much Shall We Pay? IV. New Business: 1. \Student Forum on the Road'' MoVing for Meetings into Lounges of Residence Halls and Co-op's (Jean Matus). 2. Will invite Dean Mammola to Student Forum Meetings students and went t<> the Student Forum meeting to protest the suggested c:bange of holll3ing priorities (in !loubles ami .suites) from Senior-Junior- So()brnore to reverse. Dean Wo()d was in attendance at this meEting. After ninety minutes of debate, we were aOowed to voice our protest, altho·ugh both Dean Wood and th.e Student Forum, who are. sapp()sed to re!)Tesent the voice of the students, were unsympathetic to Ollr cause. At the conclusion oftlle meeting, a vote was taken on whether or not tm recom- mend the new policy to the Stlldent Affairs C<>unsel. Despite the fact that tllis was to b~ the place where the po()licy was. to be debated, in actuality, I believe the decis:ion had already beenmade. Sillce Union had already accepted ()Ver 540 sttalents and aarutidpated another large class, ad· mi11istration would -obviously· prefer the Seniors, rather tl:!an the Sophomores, be forced to get housing off campus. All , folll'teen present members of theStudentForum voted. for the change, but assured tbe tbir- teen of us that the change would not take place mtil 1990. Clearly this vote was not r-epresentative of tbe student body's views as I wGmld have brought two more pe01ple had I known it would hav:e made a difference. Dean Wooq sat tlrough most of this meeting and consented with Student F01rum's decision. As you may have noticed, the n~w poli~y takes effect in 1989, not 1990, pwvirtg that if you pa1•ticipate in these meetings, y()U are gtLaranteed a fair headJtg. In June of 1986, my Sllite was assesed a fine of $20 to repaint thE front door, alth•ollgh: the damage occured bdore I moved into the room. I was informed that I had tlle right to all appeal, which I took ad- vantage -of by sending a letter to Residence Life.!. Once again ·Dean Wood took swift action by disregarding my rigbt to appeal alld assessing the fio~ 0:n my fall term bill. Finally, housing Ina!ildenance hils been effectively Informed amd managed by Dean Wood. In Februrary of 1986, a snowball was thrown through the lounge window of my suite. This WII.S reported to our R.A., who in- formed maintenance who, in turn, boarded up the window the · ' following day. While this was appreciated, temperatures often dropped to sub-zero levels during this time and main- tenance was periodically in- formed of this. Finally, in late March, when my roommates had thawed, the window was replaced just in time for spring. Again, I would like to restate that maintenance is under direction of-Dean Wood in these matters. Further, this year I had reported a problem with my door lock. This request was made during the second week of school. Last week, (week seven), I received a phone call from the area coordinator asking me if I was still having problems with my lock. I responded in the affirmativf:', seeing how locks are not known for fixing themselves. The area coordinator alerted me that he would immediately inform maintenance and the problem • would be taken care of. Indeed, they did arrive the next day, and agreed that the lock was in fact not functioning properly. However, I was not there at the time of their arrival, and, as a result, the lock is still damaged. I am considering placing another maintenance Fequest, however, with Dean Wood's new efficient system, I. doubt the problem will be solved before my graduation. In closing, I would still like to make an offer to Dean Wood to spend one day in my shoes. A day that starts with no hot water until the toilet is flushed, a day wondering if there will be a place tg live next year, a day where fifteen minutes is spent locking the door, a day where another fifteen minutes is spent trying to reenter the room, a day where, when not in classes, the remainder of the time is spent making justified com· plaints that are never heard. Sincerely, Rick Roberts '89

CONCORDIENSIS, November 12, 1987 Page 11 S'tudent Discontent With Pre-Registration Publicity A Problem Dear Editor: During the past week, I have watched as many of rny friends were shut out of courses which interested them or wllicn they needed to enable them t() take a higher level course during the spring semester. This was not necessarily caused by the i.n- tense pepularity of the eourses, but rather the lack ()f publicity in stating the dates or preregistration for cardc()urses and for picking up cards. This problem probably did not affect the majority of the student body, but I k11ow that it affected many of the freshmen at Union. Were it llot (()r my having the good fortune to overhear my suitemate discussing signing up for card courses, I too, might nave been shut out of the card courses which will comprise my entire course schedule next semester. Freshmen need to be clearly informed of the registration dates for card courses. A single line in non-boldface type in the middle of a page of instructions stating that November 4 was the day to sign up for ca_rd courses is not acceptable. Registration dates were reviewed by Residential and Orientation Advisers during Freshman Orientation, and appointments with academic advisers were pre-arranged. Freshmen should have been better informed of the dates for registration this term, or at least forewarned last term that they would be completely on their own in the future. Since freshmen are the last to preregister for courses, they rely more heavily on card ceurses than other Union students in guaranteeing that they will get into the courses which most interest them during the sut:Jsequent semester. I believe that this college's failure to consider freshmen inexperience in not overly publicizing registration requirements was a grave error. I realize that many hardened, experienced upperclassmen, reading this letter will consider the problem I am describing an unfortunate learning ex- perience for freshmen, but one which they should learn the hard way. However, I am sure that, upon careful recon- sideration, these students will adopt a more benevolent and understanding attitude toward the less experienced Union Dutchmen and support their request for greater advertising of preregistration dates in the future. Sincerely, Tracey Pry luck '91 Open C·ampus During Thanksgiving To the Editor: situation. Sincerely, Debra B. Honig LETTERS Preregis.tration Pressured Profs Provoke Protest I am writing to expi\ess my ex:treme disappointmeat in the pre-registration system in which we are £orced to contend with each term. I have trouble understanding why an efficient system cannot be developed to replace the current process which continuously fails to meet the academic needs of students and faculty alike. Throughout my experience at Union over the past three years, I have been witness to the consistent failure tGl ac- commodate for students in popular courses. Particlliarly, this creates unnecessary aggravation when a student is trying to fulfill Liberal Lear- ning credits required by the college. Another weakness is the \first come, first served\ system for distributing cards, utilized by most departm~nts. This system favors those who get up the earliest, and not necessarily those who have a genuine interest in the C!la~s. Finally, I feel this pro-cedure produces unneeded toension between frustrated students and pressured faculty. We must remember that only through mutual cooperation will be be able to achieve our goals. I was prompted to write this letter because of my un• successful attempts to acquire a card for Technological Values, a course that I was interested in, as well as being a requirement in order for me to graduate after nex:t term. Not only was it impGssible to get on the llst at 8:30 in the morning, but the professor refused to speak with me about my situation. At the recom- mendation of others, I carefully wrote a letter outlining my reasons for wanting to take the course. Despite my efforts, I was still rudely turned away with no recourse available. As a result of the professor's attitude, I have since lost in- terest in Technological Values. However, I would hope that incidents such as these can be corrected for future students. Sincerely, Nilgun Vigit '88 When I applied to tJ nion, I realized that there were quite a few disadvantages to a trimester school. However, that factor did not discmarage me from coming here. I havE found, so far, that I can adapt to the schedule. This term's schedule, on the other hand, posEs quite a challenge. school finds it necessary to make this exception, the least it could do is not to close down the whole campus for four days! Food service may operate on a per day basis, and therefore exclude Wednesday through Sunday in figuring out the cost of a meal plan. But under the circumstances, there should be some provisions for the people staying here, and for the people who go home yet return before Sunday. As for the library, I do not see what the obstacles are to ex:tending hours. Ode to Dean Wood After classes end c.n Tuesday, November 24, we have what is supposed to be prej)aration for final exams from Wednesday through Sunday 11ight, with finals on Monday morning. Needless to say, Thanksgiving is Thursday night. No doubt, many students will take the opportunity to go horne. Yet I assume that some stadents will choose to stay here, because it is an inconvenience to go horne in the midst of everythi11g. The administration did not realize, however, that the option of staying on campus would pose to be even more of an in- convenience if both fo-od service and the library were closed from Wednesday through Sunday. (Many stlldEnts were not even aware of thE problem until this past week; however, my own complaint originated several weeks ago by telling the President of the Student Forum.) It seems atrol!ious that this academic institution would turn this already unattractive schedule into a no-win situation. Even more ridiculous is the observation that U11ion does not honor any other national holiday, but it is eage[\ to treat Thanksgiving-finals prepar- ation week as a vacation. If the Much to my surprise, I found out that this whole problem will be prevented from happening again, because the calendar system is going to be changed. Dean Daniels and the Registrar, Dwight Wolf, ex- plained that as of next year, classes will always begin the first Wednesday after Labor Day Weelcend. Because we will always start earlier, we will always finish finals before Thanksgiving. The school has previously determined the starting date based on the Jewish holidays, so that the first few days of class do not clash with the holidays. This has meant starting school somewhere between September 10 and 20. I believe that this modified calendar system is much more sensible than the present one. However I hope that the school will make things more con- venient for the students under our present predicament, which is only two weeks away. I hope that the school acts on thP. proposals that are now under consideration to ameliorate the To the Editor: I just thought a letter would be in order to express warmth and undying appreciation to a man who has made my college experience what it is today. Certainly, one of the basic human rights is, or should be, the right to take a shower. However, Dean Wood has other ideas ... At the beginning of the year, students living in F'ox lower level found that all the showers spewed hot scalding water whenever a toilet was flushed anywhere within the building. A petition was drawn up protesting the situation and was signed by all the residents of the lower level. The petition was given to Dean Wood and several further protests were made by the R.A .. Despite these complaints, and a personal invitation to Dean Wood to take a shower there while residents flushed the toilets, he promptly ignored the situation. Upon a third complaint, action was taken to correct the matter-on November 2, water tem- perature was lowered so that it was lukewarm, at best, and often there was no hot water at all. This is still the present status in Fox North. When the lottery system was being debated last year, I assembled a group of twelve UNION COLLEGE STUDENT FORUM AGENDA FOR THURSDAY NOVEMBER 12, 1987 I. Committee reports: 1. Academic Affair~; Council 5. Student Affairs Council 2. Committee on Committees 6. Interfraternity Council 3. Finance Committee 7. Panhellenic 4. Trustees Reports IJ. Ad-I !oc Committee Reports: I. Gel-Time Committee Members: Kristen Nelson, Jeffrey Berkowitz, Micheal Hiller. Discussion of Surveys on \Effectiveness\ Publicity-How to Advertise Surveys. 2. Security Comtnittee: Members: Jen Scully (chr), Joe Voyticky, Peter Costa, Mike Van Hom, Keith Bemis, Jeffrey Berkowitz. Damage !llld 1heft Chronology and Listing Security Problem areas 3. Rape A warene.ss C<ll11Il1ittee: Members: W mdy Endress (chr), Aaron Carrel, Jenn Scully, Lou Schick Update Progress of the Committee. 4. Committee on the Closing of Facilities during Break. Members: Geri Mackey, Mark Webster, Aaron Carrel (chr), Michael Hiller Update Progress Letter to Administrators and Concordiensls Review of Student SUivey III. Old Business: l. Administration's Phone Listing fot Students (David Cohen) 2. Grounds Committee Liason (Colleen Adinolfi) Report on Campus Lighting. 3. Legal Consultation-Will We Have A Lawyer On Campus? How Much Shall We Pay? IV. New Business: 1. \Student Forum on the Road\ Moving for Meetings into Lounges of Residence Halls and Co-op's (Jean Matus). 2. Will invite Dean Mammola to Student Forum Meetings students and went to the Student Forum meetLng to protest the suggested change of housing priorities (in doubles and suites) from Senior-Junior- Sophmore to reverse. Dean Wood was in attendance at this meeting. After ninety minutes of debate, we were allowed to voice our protest, although both Dean Wood and the Student Forum, who are supp()sed to represent the voice (){ the students, were unsympathetic to our cause. At the condusion of the meeting, a vote wa~ taken on whether or not to reoeom- mend the new policy to the Student Affairs Counsel. Despite the fact that this. was to be the place where the p()licy was to be debated, in ac-tuality, I believe the decisil?n had already beenmade. Since Union had already accepted o-ver 540 students and aanticipated another large class, ad- ministration would olwi()usly prefer the Seniors, rathoer than the Sophomores, be forced to get housing off campus. All fourteen present memiJers of the StudentForum votecl for the change. but assured the tbir· teen of us that the change would not take place unti1 19!JO. Clearly this vote was 110t representative of the stu-dent body's views as I would have brought two more people had I known it would have made a difference. Dean Wo-od sat through 1nost of this meeting and consented with Student Forum's decision. As y{)u may have noticed, the new policy takes effect in 1989, nollt 1990, proving that if you participate in these meetings, you are guaranteed a fair hearin;_g. In June of 1986, my suitE was assesed a fine of $20 to repaint the front door, although the damage occured be fore I moved into the room. I was informed that I had the right to an appeal, which I tool1 ad- vantage of by sending a 1etter to Residence Ufe. Once again Dean Wood took swift adi()n by disregarding my right to appeal and assessing the fine 011 my fall term bill. Finally, housing mailltena11ce has been effectively i11formed and managed by Dean Wood. In Februrary of 1986, a snowball was thrown through the lounge window of my suite. This was reported to our R.A., who in- formed maintenance who, in turn, boarded up the window the following day. While this was appreciated, temperatures often dropped to sub-zero levels during this time and main- tenance was pei\iodically in- formed of this. Finally, in late March, when my roommates had thawed, the window was rej)laced just in time for spring. Again, I would like to restate that maintenance is under direction of Dean Wood in these matters. Further, this year I had reported a problem with my door lock. This request was made during the second week of school. Last week, (week seven), I received a phone call from the area coordinator asking me if I was still having problems with my lock. I responded in the affirmativl. seeing how locks are not kno\m for fixing themselves. The area coordinator alerted me that he would immediatelv inform maintenance and the problem . would be taken care of. Indeed. they did arrive the next day. and agreed that the lock was in fact not functioning properly. However. I was not there at the time of their arrival. and. as a result, the lock is still damaged. I am considering placing another maintenance request. however, with Dean Wood's new efficient system, I doubt the problem will be solved before my graduation. In closing, I would still like to make an offer to Dean Wood to spend one day in my shoes. A day that starts with no hot water until the toilet is flushed, a day wondering if there will be a pla<.>e to live nex.t year, a da~ where fifteen mmutes is spent locking the door, a day when' another fifteen minutes is spent trying to reenter tlw room. a day where, when not in classes, the remainder of the time is spent making justified com- plaints that are never heard. Sincerely, Rick Roberts '89

'. Page 12 · CONCORDIENSlS, November 12, 1987 'THE lYJPliNG MOM Full & Part .. fime Sales Positions in beautiful flower shop. needed immediately • THESES • RESUMES • DISSERTATIONS • COVER LETTERS and during Christmas break • MANUSCRIFTS • REPORTS PROMPT SERViCE & REASONABLE RATES Please call ·Emil Nagengast.florist · Albany \' 434-1125 377-8300 FREE CO E! For A Limited Time Get A Free Pitcher Of C:oke With Every .Larg:e Pizza. Try Us~ You'll Uke Us! Dutch Hollow Restaurant Monday thru ThuJsday Eveni·ngs! Call your mummy. You remember. She was always there when you were frightened. And if you got hurt, she was standing by with ban- . dages. Wouldn't it feel good to talk to your mother again right now? Calling over AT&T Long. Distance Service probably costs less than you think, too. And if you have .any questions about AT&T rates or service, a customer service repre- sehtative is always standing · byto talk to you.Just call .1 8(:)0 222-0300. Sure, your schoolwork arid your friends keep you busy. Butcall home and find out what she's wrapped up in. - AT&T The right choice. I PLEASE SUPPORT BUSINESSES THAT ADVERTISE IN CONCORDIENSIS CRIIISE SHIPS NOW HIRING. MIF Summer & career oppurtunities (will train). excellenf pay plus world travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Carribbean, etc .. C1ll Now: 206-73 6·0775 Ext. 354F .................. u=vou WANT TO BE A ,. PHYSICIAN, WE'LL PAY FOR IT. If you're willing to invest your skills and knowledge as an Air Force medical officer, we'll invest in you and' pay your way through medical school. It's the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. It pays for: • Tuition; · • Books, supplies, equipment a lid lab fees; • Plus a monthly income of mare than $550 . Call ·~AI Gilgenbef911f 1·800-USA-USAF

CONCORDlENSIS, November 12,. 1987 Page 13 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY ' . / .. Solar Powered Cars Race Across Australia Th.e 1,950 mile race route for the Pen tax: World . Solar ChaliJ.enge ran from Darwin to Adel;aide, Australia on a two- lanE asphalt road. The race; whic:h started Sunday, November 1, 1987 in Darwin. feat11red some 20 solar-powered vehiCles from seven different coWJiries. 'Jhe race was ex- pected to last siX days or more. Corn11etitors were flagged away fronL DarwiiJ< l>egjiming a:t 9: 00 a.m .. on November 1, and drove . sufficient, carrying in its support vehicles all of the food, water, camping gear and maintenance equipment it wouldneed throughout the race. The race course extended ap- proximately the distance from Lake .~uperior in Minnesota to the mouth of the-Mississippi at New Orleaas, or from Moscow to Madrid. General Motors solar race car, the GM SUntaycer, was being designed and' built by a team that includes HugheS' Delco Remy Division, Chevrolet Motor Division, and AeroVironment, rnc. I a Monrovia, Califor·nia engineering and consulting firm. The-project was aimed at developing and demonstrating expertise in several .advanced technologies, including light- weight structure:S and materials, low-speed aerodynamics, high·effiCieacy batteries, light-weighlt electric motors, and solar ceUs and panels. \l tlliilk yo11 ahau!Cl be more explicit hete ili step two.\ from Sidney Harris' What's so· Funny About Science? Biology Professor Returns from Nether lands for eight holli.'s. On following days., racing reswnedat exactly a:OU:a.m. and£topped exactly at 5:0(): p.m. The-racing crews and obserrvers camped overnight whEcever thEy found them- selves at the end of the day's run. Each team had to ·be self· Aircraft Company, a subsidiary of GM Hughes Electronics; GM Research Laboratories; Gm's Design, Advanced Engineering, . and Current Engineering and Manufacturing Services staffs; Holden's Motor Company, the GM subsidiary in Australia; Car of the Future? By JENNIFERKOVE Science Edit01r Union College Pmfessor of Biology · Barbara Boyer has returned to the Biology Department after .a seven- month sabbatical leave in the Netherlands! Profess:or :Boyer is beginning her 15th year as a developmental bi()lagist at Union. She does resoearch on mollusk embryos. con- centrating primarily on the \mud snail\ (ilyanas:sa). This ~~·~· .. , ....... ,, .... ,,,,,,,, ................. ,P .. H\'Y\S\''i\C'S\''\'\\\\\\\'\\\'\\\'\\'\:\······~~ COLLOQUIUM UNION COLLEGE 4:30 P.M. \SUMMA-RY OF .EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS FROM THE MARK-J DETECTOR'' Dr. Gregor Hert~n Laboratory .for Nuclear Science Massachusetts Institute of Technology Cambridge, MA ~ . . ~ lilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll II 111111111 li 1111111111111 illlilllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllll 111111111111 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 !IIIIUUIIIIII past February ·she took :ad- vantage of an opportunity to j()in a team of biologists at :the University of Utrecht in rthe Netherlands. Tile group is known among ~these interes;ted in the developmental biology> of embryos as the most signific,:ant in the world. Professor Boyer was in- terested in investigating cytoplasm-gene interaction in tlte embryos. Sile wanted to learn the biologists' technig11e of micro-injection on mollusls. It has been diseovered that tile cytoplasm in l()wer organisms communicates with its nuclei and virtually tells. the .organi..sm how to develop. Cytopla~m differs from organism to organism but the nuclei are · identical in every cell. This trait is not seen in mammaliian embryos. Early in develmp- ment, molluscan embryos split into two cell regions that are morphogenetically significamt. However in the mammalian embryo there is no such in- formation in the cytoplasm during early cell division. T'he manner in which some gemes get information to develop a:Jld otbers don't is the most im- p()~tant aspect cf <!if£erent1al gepe ~ivity. This can be verifie~·by observing the ab- normalities that result from · removal of paMs of cytoplasl\(l. Replanting remov,cd cytoplasm has corrected the · ah- Mtmalities. The ,lllost manageable systems tQ WO!rk with are those with m~ny eg;gs because there are more trae- table questicns abo11t developemnt. Researchers have observed , that all the genetic iruormaion cm- centrated in the nucleus divides some cells in1o nerve cells, muscle cells, etc. · Boyer learned how to utll!i~e micro-injection.. She injected small amounts ofmaterials 1ht4> single cells of embryos duriing all stages of development. T'he dye of the material pushes between only certain eell junctions. This suggests that there is a communication (probably electrical) between cells. For instance the \foot•• ()r \shell\ genes~ :eells may alltQW th~ dye through. . There is a universality to this phenomena and the Netherlamd group wanted to use the fLat- worm for s1udy purpos:es. Barbara Boyer was sent to tile sllores of BelgilliD in search! of sllitable flatw()rms. She CIOn- Stilted with various experts in tile field but coLJ.ld not find ally specimens with large eggs or well-known reproduct:ive seasons. These factors WEre important for iler resear.ch. Another drawback was finding a flatworm. spedes that could be sustained out of its natural ocean e11vironment, since Utrecht is not on the water. Profess()! Boyer really en- joyed her leave and plans to revisit the Netherlands in the future. From Holland and the Belgium shore to Schenectady- quite a dramatic change! Professor Eoyer seems to have adapted well and in the meantime intends to continue her work with micro-injection on mollusks at Union. In ad- dition to her school time studies, PTofessor Boyer and her husband who is also a Biology Pr()fessor at Union, will continue experiments at Wood's Hole. Profess()r Boyer praised the facilities that shE was offered at Utrecht and is presently ap- plying for a grant which would give her access to money which she would use to purchase equipment needed for her ongoing work op micro- injection. Sh.e would love to be able to offer students a chance to learn tllis new technique in embryo analysis. With the funding sile wollld be blessed with a d11al opportunity to research and update students in the current method. Professor Barbara Boyer completed her undergraduate studies at the University of Rochester, received her PhD from the University of Michigan and her postdoc from the University of Chicago. She is now happily situated at Union College as a biology professor and is }(Joking forward to working on her project with the possible input of student researchers. This aspect of Union is special · to Professor Boyer. She enjoys working closely with students and teachlng is very important to her. The 'balance -of research and instrue!ti4>n offered at Union appeals greatly_ to ~ofessor Boyer. For the past four years she has taken st11dents with her over the smnmer on her Wood's Hole excursions. Some students have given talks alld one even collaborated ,with her to co- author a paper-to-be-published, as a result of her involvement. Barbara Boyer obviously loves her work and is willing to get involved. Her enthusiasm is contagious and she manages to infect her pupils as well. Her ambition and unselfish attitude combine toinspire those around her and strengthen the prevalent favorable outlook on the importance of research at Union.

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, November 12, 1987 - & Al~ TS .& FILMS 44. = By JIM MACLAUGHLIN Arts Editor HELLO AGAIN! Starring Shelly Long, Corbin Bersten, and Judith Ivey At Crossgates and· Mohawk Mall Cinemas . Rated PG 1980 Olympic Hockey coach Herb Brooks had a famous saying, \Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.\ The phrase is an apt one to describe the letdown this reviewer .felt after about a half- hour of \Hello Again! \ lt seems too often these days Hollywood studios are satisfied with putting together only enough material to cover a 2 minute preview .. Hence, what may appear to be a promising move- to-come, often turns out to be a low grade, \made-for-TV'' quality hash. \Hello Again!\ is such a film, appearing funny in Less Than Zero: Love and Hope and Sex and Despair By AMY GOLDSTEIN \11. ·and E'LIZABETH BERLINEE ' . ~ Life in the fast lane, drugs,. sex, and rock and roll. Life in Beverly Hills is just a rUIIJor, an image of relentless parties, glamorous clothes, . fast cars, and living on the edge-a worr:y- free existance beyond the touch. of reality. Controversy has. burst on the silver screen with the realse of \Less Than Zero~\ a movie revealing the initiation · of a new generation into the realm of adulthood. Enter Clay- (Andrew McCarthy), a freshman returning to llis Beverly Hills home fl()r Christmas break from .a comparitively quiet college in New Hampshire. At an 11ll- believeably elaborate party- given by an old friend, he im- mediately encounters his high. school sweetheart Blaire ( Jarni Gertz), who has since become involved with his best friend Julian (Robert Downey). In a ByCHIAP.ET andLFA Fishoone at the RPI McNei.l Room Fishbone has to be one of thE wildest bands around today. They simply never stop mO'Ving. All the band members jwni) around, do flips and boogiE while pumping out some craz, music. Their original mix ()f funk, reggae, and hardcore wa~ enough to get just abotit everyone· in attendance to at dense atmosphere of drugs and recreational sex, it becomes apparent that what appears to be such a glamorous life is in fact a very lonely and distur- bing ex:istence. Drug dealers aren't friends when the money runs low, and even friends aren't friends when the party's over. The whole crowd is on a path of self-destruction: cocaine-snorting girls giggling at sudden nosebleeds, relentless· dealers promoting homosexual prostitution, and addicts chasing an eternal higp. The parental scene isn't much cleaner, evident in a Christmas d\,nner scene at which the father bas both wife and girlfriend present, and another in which there is a barren lack of any family unity at all amidst diamond decorations. To be honest, the movie seems to lack any clearly determinable plot. In a series of disturbing scenes, it destroys the belief that money promotes least bop around, if not slam arnd dive off the stage. Pretty impressive considering the lethargic audience visible at many area shows. · . Their repertoire consisted of many songs off their new album (due out around Christmas time.) They did .play many of their \classic\ tunes such as \Ugly \Party at Ground Zero,\ \Lyin' Ass Bitch,\ (all off their first EP) and \Cholly\ (off theitln Your Face album). During the song \Shake Your Ass,\ the lead singer was able happiness and puts the viewer through an emotional wringer. Consequently, because of the shocking issues it entails, it is impossible to define whether the movie was \good\ or not, but it was definately an in· tensive viewing experience. \Less Than Zero\ is based on a novel of the same name by Brent Ellis Easton, a junior ai Bennington College from Los Angeles. Ironically, the movie is seemingly light-hearted in contrast to the book, which incorpiJrates further examples of bi-sexuality, bigamy, and substance addiction. The J!.lm version of Clay seems to learn something from his return home, while the book version of his character is perhaps disturbed by the plight of his friends, but essentially remains unchanged. In either case, \Less Than Zero\ makes an intensive and frightening social statement on the status of the young American society. Proctor's Presents : Beehive ·Nov. 18 Waves Nov. 19 Tickets on sale at Atrium Ticket Booth to persuade three female audience members to dance on the stage while rul>bing their mammary glands. Something even beyond The Hooters capability. If one could harness tile energy given off by these l>iK cats, he'd have enough power to light all the Christmas trees in California this year. l;m sur- prised none of the engineers in the auclience thought of this. Maybe they were having fun, too (God forbid). Jim and Buddy at the Movies the 'previews,' but being J- decidedly less so in actuality. The shame of it al!l is, this could have been a half decent comedy. What fails it thoUgh, is that its tendency to drift toward the syrupy and sentimental, rather than concentrate on being funny. Shelly Long plays a Long Island housewife whose life is seemingly in a tailspin. Her husband (Corbin Ilerstin of L.A. Law fame), is a gifted plastic surgeon whQse career iS moving him up into the monied people circles, a place sbe feels unwelcome. Feeling tllat her husband may dwnp her for the glamour and money of the Manhattan· crowd, she clumsily tries to improve herseli. All is lost though when, 01:1t of the blue, she chokes and dies on a giant Korean Cbicke11 Ball. After a few basic screnes of friends and family bei:ngviewed looking sad (with the oi>Jigatory sappy music), Long is brought back from the dead by her occult-crazed sister {played by Judith Ivey). What follows. is basic TV sitcom stuff, ruining any iota of entertainment that could have been derived from the movie. \Hello Again! \ as a film seems too ·ready to accept mediocrity, taking the easy way out in following up its story line. There are problems with the husband remarrying, people freaking ·out, etc .... (Didn't Doris Day and James Garner do this before?) that don't exactly tickle one's fum~y bone in any mariner. Too often, the film relies on the sentimental aspects of her return from death, rather than the comical. Thus, giving the pace of the film a disjointed, unorganized fee. In all, \Hello Again!\ is a shame because it, along with too many movies these days, could have . been a quality motion picture, but settled for being a few· funny scenes in a \preview.\ FILM GRADE ... C On Last Thursday night at 8:45p.m. Dana -Hagstrom won 89.7 records on WRUC. 1he college's radio station, which can be heard from as far away as Albany, still has plenty of records. t- shirts and concert Hel<ets to give away. Pictured here is the joyously triumphant Mr. Hagstrom and his \.7th\ record. ' Cross.gates Mall ·:Cin.ema Fri. & Sat .QM..Y 1 Dirty Danc1rlg 2:05, 4:35, 7:50, 10:30 12:35 2 Suspect 1:25, 4:30, 7:15, 10:15 12:35 3 The Hidden 1:40, 4:25, 7:30, 10:05 12:05 4 Fatal Attractioll 12:40, 3~45, 7:00, 9:55 12:25 5 Less Than Zero r 1 :35, 4:15, 7:40, 1 0:25 12:30 6 Hiding Out 2:15, 4:40. 7:10, 9:45 11:45 7 Baby Boom 1:20, 3:55, 7:05, 9:4(!) 11:55 8 No Man's Land 12:30., 3:10, 6:30, 9:05 11:~5 9 Hello Again 12:55, 3:25, 6:55, 9:30 11:40 10 Running Mar~ 1:10, 3:50, 6:40, 9:15 11:35 11 Death Wish IV 4:05, 8:50 12 Prince of Darkness 1:45, 6:20, 10:50 13 Princess Bride 12:45, 3:05, 6:2?, 8:55 11:20 .

.CONCO'RDIBNSTS Nove;nbu 12, 1987 ' ' Page 15 ·.,_- •· A.RTS & FILMS Union Cele·brates '~merican Music Week''' • ByJOYCWUL On Firday, Nuvembet 6, the North-south Consonance En- semble gave a . musical presentatic;m in tQ.e performing arts studio. The concert was directed by Max: Lifchitz. formed by Max Lifchitz and Tina Pelikan. The third piece performed was the ''Sonata for Clarinet and Piano,\ which was written by Leonard' Bernstein. Max Lifcbitz was on the pian() again, wblle Richard Goldsrriith played tbe clarinet. The first half . of the performa,nce was widely appreciated by the audience, and was followed by an· intermission. After the intermission, Max Lifchitz and ¥ ari Bond per• formed \Sonata for Cello and Piano,\ written by Claude Debussy. Tina Pelikan then followed with \Elegy for Viola Solo\ written by Igor ·Another WRUC (89.7) Record Review ByCHIAPET Lolita Nation by Game Theory on Enigma Records In 1982, the town of Davis, California was blessed with a miracle. No, it wasn't the Reagans dressed up as Sid. and Nancy, but the formation of a Theory. Not any theory, mind · you, but Game Theory, one of the neatest undiscovered pop bands of the Eighties. And in 1987, the world is blessed with their fourth album (.and a double at that), LolitaNation. The first piece was \Dop- pelganger'' which was written by Hilary Tann. It was per- formed by . Pola Baytelman. on the pjan<>. The second and third pie.ces were entitled ''Yellow Ribbons No. 1 and No. 22,\ both written l)y Max LifcJlitz. The first made use of the piano and the flute, performed by Max Lifchitz and Laura Weiss. \Yellow Ribbons No. 1\ is the first of an ongoing s.eries of works written as a homage to the former American Hostages in Iran. These works ar,e a way of celebrating the artistic and political freedom so often taken for granted in the West. \\Yellow Ribbon No. 22\ used the piano and the viola per- • Stravinsky. The final piece brought all of the instuments together in an amazing finale written by Hilary 'fann. HWinter Sun, Summer Rain\ made use of the .flute, clarinet, viola, cello, and celeste. Congratulations to all per- formersfor a great job! Singer Marshall Crenshaw .Marshall Cre.nshaw to ·Appear at Union Aristophanes \The Birds\ ... Thurs. --Sat., Nov. 12-14 8 pm at the Nott Memorial Theatre Abrams and Arlderson Comedy performance ... 8 pm in the College Ce11ter Aud. I By JIMMACLAUGHLlN Arts Editor On Wednesday, November 18th, Union College will play host to veteran singer- songwriter, Marshall Cren- shaw. Known for such songs as \Favorite Waste of Time,\ \Someday-someway and \Cynical Girls,\ Crenshaw plays a blend of snappy pop rhythms and intelligent lyrics that are reminescent of the late · Buddy Holly. In fact, Crenshaw recently portrayed Holly in the movie \La Bamba\ (Richie Valen's film biogt:aphy), and his version of the classic song \Crying Waiting, Hoping'' can be heard on the movie's soundtrack LP. The Detroit born singer has ·currently released a new album entitled Mary Jean & others, which has recieved good reviews from tlle likes of Rolling Stone Magazine. Crenshaw has three other albums to his credit; the .self- titled Marshall Crenshaw, Field Day, and Downtown. Tickets for Marshall Crenshaw .are $5, and can be purchased at the College Center Box: Office. Game Theory . Movie \Lethal Weapon\ ... Frl- Sun .. at 7,9, & 11 in The College Center Aud. Tickets $1. Abrams and Anderson Singer, songwriter, 'guitarist, and frontman Scott Miller (with the help of producer Mitch Easter) decided tQ try something a little different on this album. Although the previous albums contained some obscure blurbs here and there, this album is full of little kerpings and blonks. There are a few brief (8 second) tracks that are made up of segments of their older stuff. For instance, \Kenneth - What's Your Frequency?\ , , and . · \All Clockwork And No Bodily Fluids ... \ are made up of some of the introductions to their older tunes along with whirling wind, feedback and vacuum cleaner noises. at Uni·on Colle~e A mght ?i1mprovJsat1onal comedy show thai ges everyone mvolved ... and !he laughs are guaranteed. Open to All Students ... But don't worry, though. Classical Guitarist 'Lily Afshar ... Sat .• November 14 in Memorial Chapel. Tickets $5 at the door. Piz;za & Soda served with the faculty. Between these audio sneezes Admission Is $3.00 Friday, November 13, 1987 7:00 Pizza 8:00 Show · are songs that made Real Nighttime and Big Shot Chronicles so desirable. Tunes like \Chardonnay \One More For Saint Michael,\ \The Real Sheila,\ \We Love You Carol and Alison,\ and \Mammoth Gardens\ (just to name a few) contain the core elements of a whiny tenor uniquely har- monized with a soft soprano, cute keyboard parts, strum- ming acoustic and electric guitars, and steady drums and bass that make Scott Miller a pop mastermind and make you want to dance around and hug your grandmother. Request this album rnucho times on your ' In the College Center Atrium Tickets will go on sate at the College Center. S onsored b ihe Social Alternatives Committee WE NEED SUBMISSIONS! ~lease send art work, short stories and poetry to Joy Cybul, Box 542, . . - for publication in the IDOL WRUC NEW 8.97 \ Full schedule brings with it a new, more predictable look to our countdown. In this week's episode: REM, king of kollege radio, sit in the throne this week with The Connells seated off center. The underdog of the week is Mirade Legion. No. Bapd Album Label 1 R.E,.M. Document I.R.S. 2 The Connells Boylan Heights TVT 3 10;000 Maniacs In My Tribe Elektra 4 MercySeat The Mercy Seat Slash 5 The Alarm Eye of the Hurricane I.R.S. 6 Daddy in hls ~ep Sleep 7 Dead Milkmen Alone with Daddy Restless Bucky Fellini Enigma 8 Meat Puvvets \I Can't Be Counted On\ SST 8.97 Rough Trade Miracle Legion Surprise Surprise Surprise NEW ADDS ADvENTURE PICKS The Squalls Game Theory . Meat Puppets (LP) The Soup J?ragons PROGRAMMING NOTES Demand WRUC at your favorite dining halH!!! Listen to the ~amilton at Union football game Saturday af.temoon, The Marathon Show with \FAST\ Ed is quickly approaching. Don't forget your No-Dose!!! Write for Arts Call Jim at 346-3401 or Jan at 372- 1511 ' favorite RUCk show! THE MUSIC COMPANY ORCHESTRA · ind BALLET REGENT present a benefit performance for LITERACY VOLUNTEERS Of SCHENECTADY THE MAGIC OF ~BAL.LET' A GALA FOR FAMILIES 3:00PM, Sunday, November 15 at Proctor~s Theatre 432 State ~trtet, ScheneCtady, N.Y. 123Cl5 Faturilll HillS Chrilliam Andcrla 's .. 1'/tt Little M•ldt Gi.,.l'\ An Gri&inal fuii..Jcncth ballet Cllon!Os~phy by Midllel Sbde Willie by ~ Waun Rcac:ned T'ICUU: S 10 Adulu, SS ·childmt tlld -.ion A vailablc II Proctor' 1 Box Oft\'ICIII 3611 6»4, Community IJcla: orr..:a, ~IIUburt.n CNI c~.Stora. n Dromc 5IMid Cinup Ticku: 355-J.t91 Jian:d~ Moalible

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, November 12, 1987 \ I first flo<n __ ·Becker Hall. Application deadline is.Aptil15, . ' 1988. CLASSIFIEDS Sharp. clean cut and am- bitious. Does this describe you? Our company has a full-time opening in our new }()cal office to close telephoae orders in Capital District. !Darn $1,200 monthly and dependable vehicle · needed. ·Call Mr. O'Brien 756-3191 or apply in person at 33 Main St., Ravena, N.Y. For Sale: '82 VW Rabbit Power Steering. 5 on tile .floor. Garnet color, call 372-7327. TYPISTS-Hundreds weekly at home! Write: P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066. PART TIME~Home mailing program! .Excellent income! .- Details, send self-addressed, stamped. envelope. West, Box 5877, Hillside, NJ 07205. HOMEWORKEBS wanted! Top pay! C.I. 121 24th Ave., N.W. suite 222, Norman, Oklahoma. 73069. FREE- Trip to Daytona plus commission mo11ey. Going to Florida? Go for free. Take advantage of promoting the No. 1 Spring Break 'Trip. If in- terested call Designers of Travel 1-8 00-453-907 4 .... Immediately! $10 • $660 weekly-up mailing circulars. Rush self-addressed stamped envelope. Dept. AN- 7CC-f A, 11300 Wilshire, Sute 47, Beverly Hills,. CA tl()212 .• SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management an- nounces its annaal minority MBA Fellowship Program. Minority candidates qualifying for admission at a consortium school are alltomatically considered for a merit-based fellowship that provides tuition, fees, and a stipend of $3,000 for the first year of study ($2,000 for the second year). For more information and applications please check the Financial Aid bulletin board, first floor Becker Hall. Appl. deadline is Feb. 1, 1988. The Albany Soroptimist Club announces the competition for its annual Training Award for $300 for a woman aged 30 or more who plan:s to enter or return to paid employme11t. The TAP Award is for full- or part- tinle education or training to improve job prospects. Applicants must sbow financial need, a specific goal, and a clear plan for reaching that goal. Application deadline is December 5, 1!187. For more infonnation and applications contact: ·Marilyn Wiles, ALERT, 31 Chapel St., Albany~,~ ~ NY 12210. (463-2661). ' The Albany winner will be automatically c«losidered for a' Regional award of $2,00th . The PlaneUiry Society · an- nollilces competition for five $1,000 awards to college students who are majoring in engineering or science. Awards will be made on t~ basis of scholastic achievement~ a commitment to a career in planetary related s!!ience, and a written essay on a relevant topic. For more information and applications consult the Financaal Aid Bulletin board, Soroptomist Interllllti()Bal of Schenectaily, NY announces its annual competition for a $1;000 award to assist a mature woman in obtaining tl\aining and entry or re-entry iilto the labor market. To be eligible a woman mllst be the singLe head of a household, show financial need, be enr()lled in vocational or technical training or be completing an undergraduate degree, and be a resid.ent of Schene!!tady County. Application deadline is December U, 1987. For- more information and applications contact: J. Dillen back, 314 Fourth St., Scotia, NY' 12302. CLUB NEWS Folk Gr(Jup-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the · 7:30 p~m . .Smday Liturgy may meet witll Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Tutorial Progra·n-Union College students can be used in the followillg areas ~t St. Jolin the Evangelist Scho()l: King dergarten Aides, C()mputer Math Aides, Library Aides and Math and' Reading on a one-to- one. Please contad Kristin Nelson, 31l6-4a64. · Oxfam America-Demons- trate your concern for the world's hllDgry. Skip a meal, or fast for a day, and do11ate your food money to Oxfam America to fund self-help projects and disaster relief in the Third World. Hnng:er and IJ()Verty are not inevitable. Together, we can make a difference. Si~n up- for those on meal plans will take place Wedllesday, November 11 and Thursday, November 12 during lunch and dinner. Cash donations or checks to Oxfam America will be accepted the day of tbe Fast, Thursday, Novembei·19, at the Skellar and Dutch H()Jlow Restaurant from students, faculty and staff. Merton. Tapes 1988 will mark t}J.e 20th anniversary of Thomas Merton's death. Any member of the Union Community who wisHes to listen to and discuss one of the MertBn Tapes Fridays from noon t() one is invited to bring .a brown bag luncheon· to Sr. Joali's office, 404B The College Center. .PERSONALS Lina, . Time 10 make tb:e donuts! What will we do With your dirty mind. I don't get it; we know! Voodoo Hi Madn.ess. It's my turn. Love, Little Lisa Alison P. . Happy Birthday! You're the Beans. . Love, Little Lisa Herd Member Unite! You guys are the best - tlumks for everythiJJg. ILY. L2 - Do11't worry a:oo11t your b problerm:~ + I'U al\Vays go out with yo11. -Your Ex Lin a Didn't you knDW that the pledge pin makes you 5 inches shorter - so Little Lisa & Littler Lisa J?ebbles, · The term has been amazing so far. If there were oue thing more to want, it would be only to spend more time with you. Love you very much! BCililbam • MAD-'Oh to be ertergize_d!! -Red Robin: Even from Nairobi I will be available to talk ... at least write. So don't give up! Love in. PKE., Maia Paul and Tirn~Thanks for MAD~We hope this Jsn't your dinner Sat. night - next tiine · n1 f\ t '11 k oyus .... we · · coo some place with ' ~Red andStone more venjilation! Love, Nanc, . Mags, El, Mona., and KT H~ppy Birthday Ally!! -Love, Liz., Karen, Stephanie and Tanya . . James-Happy 21st. Have a fantastic weekend! Love, Taj LB You've had a happy one. Now just look forward to only good things t() come! (hal) I love you-WLT Sherm I didn't know you were into kinky stuff like that! LoveYa Sue ------~~-------- Manley~Do not fret, do not frown, Vel and CRO are back in town! Bob, May you end up on a plate next to scrambled eggs~ and an exceptionally small sausage link. B.K.-Did you think we forg()t''?lfsl!a Think the three little pigs • the last one went wee-wee-wee but was gunned down on his way home. These personals are com- pliments of the senior kifi.Koch committee. . P .S. Bob fight your own battles, this is between you and us. Ricer-We \hear\ you're not an atheist ... Oh God! Oh God! Witz, Jerry is good (great) .but how is DWEEBIE? ! ·~·I'll have to find out. This weekend was great -you're the best!!! BMS Bobbie- we hope to see you next turning on a spit over an open fire with an apple in your mouth, Bemer-Nobnuch time left as a · pledge. Congrats! Don't do . what we all expect on initiation night. Love, Your \iittle\ sis Hide your curly little tail, Bob, it's pig season. (Does the word bacm~ mean anything to you.?) Krochman, do.n't flatter yourself. Pasting Deltas on your chest is no way to get in good with the girls. To the Sisters of Gamma Phi: Friday was ... shocking!! Let'.s do it again sometime soon ...• this time less warm clothes and more money! ! Love in PKE, Betas · Go ahead Bob Koch, wallow in your mud. May it corrode your erogenous zones. · \fJ«n!· tht¢ #f/Ofl?lll!l f/Mn't ~he ~~And her ~p~e s y~f r J) ... \rr W£ \I AWl A GovERN MENT'ittKf . FUNCT\ONS 11-t Tit( 'BtST \'HTt:KESTS Of' • THE. Atf\E:R ICAf\ 'ftOVLE., T\t:~ '\Ue. ('f\NN51 AI.LO\J .AN~ PV~L\C br~\C.\1\\... To HAVE. uSE\) DRUGS tr-11\\E. ?As-r: ~/ .. · To the newest Delta~wanna~ . be.-You must stop hanging out with the· animals at the :t;oo. You've l)ecome a .fat pig. Stop · · eating those bananas. · Five Friends and Pledge~The journey has almost ended. I'm .proud of you guys, even my little brothers. Good luck and • event1,1al congrats.. · · The Eldest Ricer.-,..\Oh God~On God.\ At l~ast you could change your religion to say this .... Pm the right religion but nave no reason to utter such words ... ? . To those who }mow the La Granduka~ please get ready to have an informational meeting soon. Being out of touch is not \high\ on my list. Robin~ You say it's your bir- thday, well it's my birthday too. Let's get together & celebrate. Love, Me tst visi1 free 1st visit free When the BEACH is out of REACH Catch A Tan At . Tam's Tanning And Laundry Only 50¢ awash Great Prices On All TANNING MEMBERSHIPS You'll see results in just minutes 835 Eastern Phone: 393-4947 ' ··-----. ~ · '()tJ ANOT\tE:R FRDIVT~ . · rtf\ fROU\} TO .ANtllOUtlC.C. .. :st\AR \V.,R~ :DertOYlllENT IS orJ Sc\'t~:DULE.''

• I Q()at- Here's a math lesson: 25 + ; 2i>x equals. biddy 1:iquared. Hi SDT & PLEDGES Love, Little Lisa Bi, SD'l' & Pledges Love, Littler Lisa !Meg- Enjoyed the phoning muchly. ''fllanks for letting me out of the clOset! Love, Mom IBa,ppy Birthday Lia! ! U-HAULA. Roses are Red, viOlets are Blue, my undies may . be Pink but I'm one step ahead .of you. Web JJoe-I missed you at . dinner !Monday ... hope your papers turned out ok! Hang in there- - Mom CONCORDIENSIS, November 12, 19.!1.7 Page 17 Matthew Futterman, Hey sweetie~No more keeping me up til 4 in the a.m. .. Just kidding. Thanks for listening. Love,Lina Prof. Andrew Miller, Listen you! Now that I have a topicyoubesthookmeup! Let's · do brunch this weekend- Love, Lin a Bethie & Stanley, Wait .... sweetheart, is it time to stress yet or what? ! Love, Lina & Ladys· Maggie the Magpie, Listen, honey, don~t cry. Just think at least it was a plus! Hey Andrew! Love, Lina Chad-'Can we get together with the aesthesiometer? This time different body parts! · Lina Andrew Sobol, Hey Andrew, thanks for dinner. I guess not it's my turn huh? By the way ... what country is your brother in again? Kidding~Love, Lina OK,. I know yo11 said it, hut: \You're the best dog I've ever had!\ Anne- ! know, I know ... I have a spastic mailbox. Gladtobe your mom anyway! -C. Little, Little 'Lisa Brown- Although I'm only a pledge- I am taller! Love, Huge Lina Dear PHDGB, You really are allergic to everything! What else could account for your deformities except being hit by a Mack truck & living througll it. B()~P BOP, So, so sorrY it took 4 weeks ... Please forgive me I ATH from DGP. Hey, Ashley, I'd like to buy e VO}Vel! Ffej, I miss you lots but let's ge1 together the weekend before final5, OK? CJM Happy birthday Gwynne .& Sanely The Smith~ awesome party at tile Ramada last night. Kirby, Bowling with appl'e5 is the . rage in Macy's -aisles on Saturdays. Madonna-wanna-be: We make · the best welcoming C()rnmittee- . imagine our embal\'rassmentl You're the greates,i:-rhanks! JAWS To the brothers of ZB 'T: Thanks forsuch a great party- we all had an amazing timle! - The sisters ·Of Delta Delta: Delta Bench Bunch- Sue, Isn't this what y01u.'v:e been Have you activated your .. waiting for? Rookie njglJtis fast cheese yet?? Mohawk Dairy approaching ... but ~hen? Be W()uld love to help!! ready for it ... or be ()ne of the Maia- · jerks. C()ngratulations on an G-W-M seeks same .ffJr l()ve and kisses!! I'm a yourtg: available BLOOM COUNTY red haired man. Con.iact me, I live. in LL Davids()n. Only serious offers need a.pply. :: ' l I flfi€M. / ~----------~~ Hct Y(}(J GuY5 / me IMPfi~IV~ PI5PIAY OF 5VI?PcN /.flf!O!{ V/OteNC~ f!l(()fl(ffff ON 6Y l/NPB<- 5TIINIJIIIJ/.Y 5Tiffiii'(E/7 t!MortON5 WON'( FJe N€C65511RY.f/ I w,q5 WONPer?lfVfJ , Vl1 ... I 17fO(fiJ/fT YOII srru MtGfff ee Hlf?!Nfl ... OH,.. Ofl /6/(,, / Kathy, And for five do.Har• s ...... boxers, briefs, ()r oore? Zorro Shelly, Are you one of th(j)se 'neck' women too? A Dear Willie B & Willie A, Now that you're familiar with the ways of the 'br'ary-Just remember your motllers and always be wary. Fol\' a11y joke you could possibly do ·• you will undoubtedly feel tool · · · · , --sistem:s Blanche w.w. What a thing to have in common. The great weight has been lifted from our siloulders. Halleluja! Rita Question of the term-Will no escort come to a KS function. Answer- Yes and shE'll bring her hqusemates. -SM Morty & Jimbo- Looking forward to more whirling spoons in !Lpple pie. Next time with CornJV & HCB, too. Love you guys The FUm Committee Presents:· LETHAL WEAPON at 7,9,11 Nov. 13,14,1l5 UFEOFBRIAN at 7,9,i 1 Nov. 17 WILL YOU HAVE ~NOUG·H MO'NEY FOR CHRISTMAS? ·11 the answer is questionable, now is the time to do somethi:ng about it. Dutch Hollow Restaurant is accepting student appl,ications for most shifts. Apply in person 9-5 weekdays. ,..., ... ..

• Page 18 iJ1ie Intemationa£ Stulents Union ?:Fte Phi.Cosopfiy [forum antf 1\p.rma iJ'egs-um CfwBng 1Jutldliist Center present •- '<J\], r \'' .~·-. /~ !l: :;,::i CONCORDIENSIS, November .12, 1987 MQnday: Tuesday: Wednesday: Thursday: Thank You For Making The 1987 Student Phon-a•thon A Huge· Success! French table, 12:30 ltalian table, 12:00 Spanish table, 12:30 German table, 12:00 Participants: Language tables will meet ' in the Pu~ at the College Center, !lJld all members oflhe college c<unmunity are welcome to attend. We raised $58,000 Winning Teams Were: • Arger~tina • Armenia • China •:French Canada •·Germany • Htmgary \'india • Indonesia • Ireland •Israel •Lithuania • Pakistan o Poland • Russia • Scancjinavia • Spain • Syria ~Ukraine .. united States Tri-delta Kappa Sigma/ Karate Club Concordiensis Circle K 1S.thANNUA.L.FESTIVAL OF.NATIONS SUNDA.Y, NOVEMBER 15, 1987 1'2:()0 Noon - 6l00 ·P.M. EMPIRE STATE I'.L.AZA Albany, NY %e venera6Ce Xg.npc; ~rtfiar !l{f.mpocfu in a pu6Cic talk. \'1Jeali1tfJ witli Con.fusion,~ tJJe.sire ana !A1tfJer' . Look forward to the April Drive! GENERAL ADM!&S!ON PERFORMANCE e~FOOO·• CRAFTS 'ACUL TS·$200 ~'l.-.. ...... CHILDFlEN {5-15} $1 00 Tfi:urstfay. 9{ov.12 co&ee ?f.ru{itorium at 7:30pm 5it([ tWe{come In Celebration of Discovery Sunday, November 15, 1987 2:00 pm to 6:00 pm ~~~·~::::1ll: \<lfl4't{'i;.V '-i:~.: .. :· -~~\:~~econa ,ifoor o-~\ We6ster !Jlouse ~ )' j ') ,.~~ Foo·d Music .,..,....'.-.~ ;:;.·~.=-···· .. .-.·-,._ (Curtura{ 'Unity 1'loor) .::. ·:fr~··:v:~:\;:;.;:;:,~ .. ' :;; .. :c,· :~: ·;·~. Aft Slides UNION. COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITTEE c;proudly Presents AT THE ·MEMORIAL.CHA.PEL .. WEDNE.PAY, NOVEMB.ER·tSTH TICK'ETS $5 COLLEGE CENTER BOX OFFICE ' YOU GET HUNGRY FRIDAY EVENINGS, DON'T YOU ? WHY SEITLE FOR A HAMB:URGER WHEN YOU CAN HAVE: • Prime Rib •Tenderloin Of Beef ·Shrimp Scampi ·Chicken Cordon Bleu FOR THE SAME MEAL PUNCH. I)UTCHMAN'S NIGHT . DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT 5:00 I 7:00PM 19 Me.al P;lan- 2/Month 14 Meal Plan- 1/Month 10.Meal P'lan- 1/Mo.nth l l ·c • E p t. t: s n 1\ tJ ]\ l ~ \1 ~ fi n h L

CONCORDIENSIS, No-vember 12, 1.987 Page 19 ... Much is expected from a well rounded and experienced team Basketball Preview gy MARK VAN :BUREN Coach Bill Scanlon enters his 15th year as head coach faced with the possibility that this team could have the best finish of any of his previous ones. The 1987-88 edition of. the Union Cqllege men;s basketba11 team will try to match the NCAA thournament berth that the 1982-83 team re~Ceived. 'Scanlon's career winning performance of .601 ·(career record of 206-137) figures to he boosted by this season's per- formance. Coming off a 17·9 season in 1986-87., the Du.tchmen return eight .players, .including three starters- · seniors Tom Beck and Kurt Fox and jUnior Doug Gregory. Beck, this year's team cap- tain, averaged 10.4 . ppg and handed out 6.7 apg (174 assists) last year. He needs o11ly 173 assists this season to break the career assist record of 556 set by Joe Clinton. Fox:, who finished with 467 points· (1'7.9 ppg ), hitting on 53 percent of his shots, and 204 rebounds (7.8 rpg), will again be counted on to lead the Dutchmen in scoring and rebounding, as he has done for the past two seasons. Fox is currently ninth on the all-time scoring list with 937 points. He is looking to become only Ute ninth member of the illustrioU:s 1,000- point club, and has a very good chance to finish his career as the third leading scorer in Union College basketball history. Fox's load shOuld be eased by the contributions 6£ ·areg()ry senior Joe Romer and 6 '6\ freshman Dylan Kelltey. Gregory, who posted ~verages of9.3 ;ppg {on an accuracy of al percent) and ~:.2 rpg as a sophomore, will be looking. to· improve on those statistics. Romer, last year's sixth-man, will 'be cast into the starting small forward slot. As last season's super-sub,·· he ,posted the following figures- 12.4 ]l:pg, .51 FG percent, 4.5 rpg. Jurrior· Scott Gibbs (2.7 ppg in 24 games; rounds out the starting lineup as the o{f~guard. 'l'he other ret11tning veterans- seniorSteve DeBalso (2.0 ppg tn 23 games), junior Joe Scott (1.1 ppg), and sophomore Mark Trudeau (2~5 ppg) all figure to challenge for quality playing time. The new faces that will be wearing the gatnef and grey ar!e sophomore Steve Hayn and freshmen Dylan Kelley, Ste'Ve Khentigan and Bill Peck. Ilayn was forced to sit· out all of last season with a bad back. Tom Beck agrees with C()ach Scanlcn's feelings that this year's team has \a nice blend of experience and youth, as well as a .good d,eal of depth.'' Both feel \relatively optimistic\ abo11t this year's squad. One problem that the senior captain feels the team must overcome is \ ... our inability to win on the road consistently, as has been the case the last couple of seasons.\ The Dutchmen were 4-5 away from the freindly confines of Memorial Fieldhouse last year and have not had a winning road record in each of the previous four seasons, going 1-28 during that span. This would seem to be one of the greatest obstacles that the team faces this season since 16 of their 25 games are away from home. The Dut- chmen also face a challenging schedule that features nine games against teams that went to post-season sournaments a year ago, as well as Division II power LeMoyne College. · · Aside from the more obvious concerns, :Beck hopes this year's squad \will cause a little excitement, to cause an otherwise apathetic student body to become interested in the basketball program and turn out in mass for the games.\ The Dutchmen scrimmaged Oneonta State last Friday and host Eastern Copnecticut in another scrimmage this Sun- day. They open the season vs. Albany. State at RPI on Saturday, November 21 in the opening round of the Capital District Tournament. Cross Coun.try HostS State Meet This past Saturdayj unknown to most, Union College hosted the NYSCT&F A cross-country state championship meet. The meet, held at the Schenectady Municipal Golf Course, at- tracted 20 teams from across New York State. A powerful University of Rochester team won the meet, scoring 32 ])Dints, while Union placed 15th in field with 364 points. Union's top finisher was Jim LeBron, who missed qualifying for AU-State honors by only 6 places. LeBrou•s time of 27:10 over the 5 mile course. got him 33rd in t!te fieldof 128 runners. The overall winner of the race was St. Lawrence's Jukka Tammos~to, who captured his third i11- dividual title in the last fomr years. Union's second and thivd finishers were Steve Szydlik and Dave Defilippo, who finished 52nd and 39th with times of 27:33 and 28:3.3, respectively. Running an e:x- cellent race for the Dutchmen. was junior Wayne Kotary, whop improv:ed by almost a minute over his performance a week ago on the same course. Kotary clocked a time of 28:40 to pick up 92nd place in the field. Mike Martinez placed 101st with a time of 29: 14 in his first state . meet to round out Union's scoring. This weekend both the men's and the women's teams will be competing in their NCAA Division III qualifiers. The event will be held a't the Saratoga State Park, with the women's race· scheduled to begin at 11:00 and the men's race at noon. · 1987 Union College Football-Statistics 9 Game Totals Gms Darrell Sh~pherd 3 Ryan Mason 7 Brran P!lumbo 7 Ste~e Hayes 9 Chris puffy 6 Soan McLaughlin 3 Gf~t>rge i-k:Avoy 9 Mike G~rgiula 6 Jim Poltiet 7 o~rryl Tiggle 2 Tim V~l~chovic 6 Cecil Bright 9 Jim LaFrance 8 '•r-:a.m 9 Onlo~ Totals 9 Opponenta 9 1\tt 109 50 47 57 19 4 1 22 48 3 17 2 l 1 381 396 ROSlHNG Yds 431 269 164 1.53 89 22 13 6 3 2 -3'8 -18 l - 3 1092 -1339 PASSING ,Ji rn Po i c i e r t1i~·~ G.1C:jilll0 Tim V.?.l·'ICbovic r1ar k s tncbo~iak .Jason Krause 1'-lik€ Mul. tr:r.y Uni•m Tot-:~ls -,-.-.- Gms 1\ t t 7 134 I 6 96 6 30 9 2 9 1 l 1 Camp 69 45 17 0 0 0 9 264 131 9 171 90 Pet 51.5 46.9 56.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 49.6 52.6 ~vg 3.9 5.4 3.4 2.7 4.7 5.5 13.0 1 0.3 o·. 1 0.7 0.0 2.9 3.4 lCds 977 590 406 () () () 1773 1062 TD 6 2 l 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 10 15 TD 9 7 0 0 0 0 16 5 Con 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 D 0 a 0 0· 0 ·0 0 0 rnt. 10 5 l 2 0 0 18 8 Y<isPerGm 53.2 38.4 23.4 17.0 14.98 7.3 1.4 1.0 0.2 0.7 0.0 121. 1 148.8 V.dsP-?cGm 139.6 98.3 34.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 197.0 118.0 <!Inntnrb.itnsts ,SP.O R TS By MARK ZIMMERMAN At this point in the year there is somewhat of a lull in s;ports. , T'he b()ckey and basketball . seasons are just underway, the · baseball hoppla is over, the trade rumors have not started yet and the NFL is in the midst ()f a somewhat boring season. I ' llave decided to enlighten you with several important Cjuestl<lns that have recently been fl()ating around the sp()rts world. -What will happen to the NFL Jllayoffs when every team in the AFC East ends up with the SEIII1e record at the end C#f the · season? -When will Bo J ackscn admit tllat this whole football thing w.as ieally more than jlllSt a. bobby and that he intends to remain in the NFL? -Will Mike Tyson knock out Larry Holmes in the first rolllld, S!!!cond round, or on the way out . of the dressing room to .spare Eolmes the embarassment? -What day in February will th.e Devils clinch the Patrick Division'? -How did the Houston Oilers, N'ot ·In, the Box Score Indianapolis Colts and San Die~o Chargers get into first place? -Wbe11 will the New Orleans Saint::~ join: them? ~DDesanyone care! -H~vr many days will it take the K:llicks to take over sole pos::;ession of last place? -H()vr :can Eric Dickerson not be h.<~ppy with his new $5.6 million contract? •Wbe11 will Minnesota fans reaJj~e that their team is not · goin~:e to win the World Series next :year? -W.ill Billy Martin bring back his -winning ways to the Yatlk.ees? -HolV many statements will be m~de- by the NHL saying that theyaFe tr)Zing to curb fighting? -w:Ln· the NO. 1 ranked Syracuse Orangemen make it to the Fi!tal Four? -Wilm the NFL officially tell Brian ,Bosworth that they are not clla11ging the rules so he can weu his No. 44 jersey? An!l finally, the number one qUestion on everyone's mind: -Will Unjon hockey win as rna11y ge1rnes this season as RPI ;had ·~oals? TIVo Union ruggers already enjoying th~ off~season, but where's Ci:llris? Upcoming Sporting Events:· Football Finale vs.. Hamilton . Sat. 1:30 on the turf. Men's and women's ·Cross Country NCAA Qualifying Nov. 14th. . HocJtey ·vs. Babson Nov. 14th Men'·s Basketball at Capital District tournament Nov. 21st & Z2nd ·

The Skating Season The Killer 'B's End Perfect Season ~ 3 Field goals lead the way Out of the Mud· Comes a Wln By ANDREW MILLER Sports Editor It was not an artistic success! The game was not played out like you diagram it. on the blackboard. In the V ennont snow-covered sea of mud, that they elrumed was a football field, the fighting Dutchmen ground out a hard fought 9-7 victory over the Middlebury Panthers. The game lived up to its billing as a physical contest as the two teams slugged it out in the rich Vermont mud. All of Union's points came in the fonn of field goals by Jason Krause and Bob Anderson. The field goal bonanza marked the first time in this decade that the Dutchmen won a game without the benefit of a touchdown. In the game of musical quarterbacks this week's music ·stopped on senior signal caller Tim Valachovic. Valachovic came into the game after starter Mike Gargiulo suffered a leg injury in the second period. ln his best game this season, Valachovic went 12 for 15 for 13() yards, and engineered all three of Union's scoring drives. The Dutchmen drew first blood as Bob Anderson split the Uprights on a 26-yard field goal attempt with 3:03 left in the half. After a weak Panther punt the Dutchmen took over at the Valachovic the go ahead sign. Valachovic rolled left and hit running back Darrell Shepherd for a 5-yard pickup. The drive was then stuffed by the Pan- thers forcing the Anderson kick. With one second left in the half, · Bagnoli brought in his downtown foot specialist Jason Krause. Krause, who had missed on his only collegiate attempt earlier this year, was summoned to convert on a 38- yard attempt. Valachovic drove the Dutchmen from the Union 21 to the Middlebury 31 highlighted by 3 passes. that resulted 44 yards to set up the field goal . attempt. Playing on the ripped ap part of the field, the Dut- chrilen surprised Middlebury by going to the air deep in their Dwn territory late in the half. Krause, with the poise of a seasoned veteran, gained a .strong foothold and met the ball solidly. The kiCk sailed high above the crossbar and pat Union up 6-0 at the half. The Dutchmen lead didn't last long as Middlebllfy took a 7-6 edge behind a 42-yard touch- down run by fullback Frank Zecca. The see-saw battle conti11ued as Union came roaring b;:~ck to .go ap 9.7 on a 40- yard blast from KrallSe with 9: 03; left in the 3rd quarter. That was thE end of the ride for Mid.dtelltuy as the Dutchmen defen:£e came alive and played \let .me down\ With the Pan- thers, as the weight of Union's defe!U!e shut down any Mid- dlebuy attack. The Panthers wef'e literally forced back as Middlebury was unable to get the ball past mid-field the .entire 4th ,quarter. The Pantbers did have'<lne genuine attempt to win the ~altle late in the third quar-:ter, but the comeback lite:r1:1Jl~ fell short as a 37-yard fiel.d'~oal atempt failed. to reach the e:ross!)ar. !\hE lJnion victory pushed the Dutcllmen over the .a~O mark for Ute season with one game relilming. Next week Union will pla:y its final game, at home . agaiost · Hamilton. The Dut- chrllen hold a slim 42-37-12 adva.ntage in series play. The re~ord.ls among the closest, in teilll:S ()f won-lost record, at any level ()f college football. \The NCA...A ·lists the Hamilton-Union ganE as the 15th oldest series in teil!lS ()f when the rivalry beg!lll. The six scoreless ties, 12 over~n. are a college record at an:y level. Speaking of Sport~ By CAR•L R. FRIEDRICH JR. I was looking at the December issue ()f Powder Magaziite and could not believe that my leg is in a cast,. and w()rse, 1 will miss the entire ski season. ' 'Well, guys, I think I can cook ... \ • With ski season upon us, the Union ski bum finds himself in a position of greatness. There is not quite anything like the morning sun in your face and packed powder under your skis. Like surfing, skiing is not a sport, it is a way of life. This all reminds me of a day on the mountain last season, when the pressures of life were minimal and two good legs were at a maximwn. The morning was bright but cold, and you could smell the powder from a mile away. I had to be the first one on the hill. I usually ski alone, as my fa.mlly and friends were not quite ready for me, or should I say dumb enough? The first trip up the hill I was alone. I warmed up slow, taking some intermerrate trails cautiously to tr· J read the hill. Towards th, .1d of the run I tried out a little bwnp I knew, and right then I knew this day was mine. I could have not gotten to the lift any faster. The next time at the top, I thought of something my occasionally crazed brother-in-law once told me at this very peak. \Remember Carl\ he said, \if you're not wiping out, you're not skiing aggressively enough.\ He tore up the hill that day, and one can say, I ate his powder. It was my turn now. The day was the greatest day of my life on skis. Every run, I had speed, grace, style. In the moguls, I felt like I could do ~nythin~. People were watching me. Trails that I never survived bei()re were falling at my wake. At iurJ.Ch I looked at my edges to m~~e Sllre I hadn't dulled my ed.ges -with the show I was p11tt:in.g on. i'l!e afternoon was much like til~ IJi()rning, except I was C()Irn!)letely loose and churned up iile mountain. Every trail sk:iledwas just anotber notch in· m.y belt. Where once I 'did' the - Just Not in Cards By ANDREWMll..LER Sports Editor There is no need to be ex- tremely critical. Their play was . far from inspiring, but what more could you ask. Obviously overmatched and un- dermanned, the '87 edition of the .skating Dutcbmen kicked off their seasonal campaign by suffering a 13-0 thrashing at the hands of Division I rival RPI. The RPI Engineers came into Saturday night's contest with a pre-season national ranking of lOth. The Engineers, in their first game of the season, were looking to find the magic form that propelled them to a national championship in 1985. From all indications, the score of the game included, RPI will be a contender for the national crown. So where does that leave Union? The 13-0 defeat 'drops the Dutchmen to 0-1 in the young season, 0-0 in the aU important conference record. The RPI game waS' a David and Goliath match-up. The big Division I powerhouse pitted up against the small re.;building program of ECAC DiviSion II Union. From the opening face- off it was all RPI. \It didn't matter how hard we skated. RPI is just a better team. They, are bigger, stronger, and quicker than us,\ a realistic coach Charlie Morrison said in the post-game media interview. Nothing the Dutchmen could do seemed to work against the physical man to man, blue line t-o blue line, defense of the Engineers. Despite impressive play by goaltenders Ron Kinghorn and Terry Rathwell, the Dutchmen hill, today I skiied the moun- tain. Before I knew it, the event was over. On my last run, I was pretty tired, but decided that a tuck all the way could be done. By the time I was halfWay down, I was so compelled to look back, sure I had burnt tracks in the snow. I walked off the hill that day feeling on top of the world. What made it better was the fantastic dinner I had. But that's another story. Well, as I wake up and see that it's snowing in Schenec- tady, I am beating out the rhythm to some tune on my cast. Have a gt·eat season, everybody, and I hate you all! could not be spared from the worst loss in the history bet- ween the two schools. Although overwhehned bY the continuous Engineer pressure, the two combined to kickout 46 save$ and thwart 3 RPI bre(lkaways. The Dutchmen held tough in the first period, yielding only two scores behind 15 Kinghorn saves. Both RPI goals were· scored on power plays coming at 1:21 and 8: 12 respectively .. The Engineers came out aggressive, but missed many scoring bids. Offensively it was the Dutchmen's best quarter, putting 7 shots on goal, one caroming off the left post. The 2-0 first period score was deceiving, for the crewd of 4,000 knew very well it was just a matter of time before RPI broke out. The wait was a short one as the Eng~eers exploded for 7 second period goals, four coming in the span of 3:36 seconds. The RPI attack was led by No. 1() Bill ·Flanagan. Flanagan captured his .first career hat trick with a goal in the 2nd and two of RPI' s 4 scores in the third. The Enginee.rs were also boosted by freshman Tim Robert's 5 assists. · All in all the RPI game was not an unmitigated disaster. Kinghorn and Rathwell gained valuable net experience in a pressure situation. The team carne out in an encouraging aggressive style that manifested itself in an op- portunistic mc.de of play. There were no injuries in the game. The return of captain Scott Cyr and Nelson Said should also bolster the team offensively. The Dutchme11 will take on their first league ()pponent Elmira later this week. ln.side Sports: Hoop Preview Zim's Questions Harrier's at the State meet ( ...

CXVII~ No.9 e ii. ~ \HJ !!!\ ~ \~ \~ Assistant Se~retary of D&fense For lnter:11ational· Security Affaiss~ Paul Warnke. · Former Chief Arms Negotiator E~p:resses Optimism. About Arms Treaty at Minerva Hour Paul U; Warlike forrn'Er Qiret:tor of .th~ .United Stat~$ Arms Control and Dislll'- mament Agency and Chief · United States negotiator dmirlg the .Strategic Anns Limitatio11s Talks in 1977 and 1978; we1s ThUI\sday's Minerva lecturer~ Mr. Warnke's experience in arms control negotiation:s Is especially valuable in light of . the proposed DeceiJlber T1ll superpower talks aim,ed ~t reducfug intermediate nuclear weapons based in Europe. wlUch tlue£t-1enf;ltl deploYmeut of inte~mediate range nuclear weapons in tllree- years if SS-20 deployme11t was not cqntained. Beginn1ng ill 19M, in what was called the ''O:.option,\ the United State$ promi$ed not to deploy lntermediate ra11ge missiles in E11rope if the Soviets would scrap theirs. Our . • deplo)'Iilelit•IJf Cruise and MXII . missiles wa; a result of con- . tinned S()viet deployment of the S8-20. • With-G()rilachev's proposal to limit intErmediate range ' See WARNKE,. p. 3 1877 Change in Staff Responsible~For Delay of .Stud.ep_t Directory By MELISSA LEVINE Residence Life and the Dean. of Students have finally com- pleted The Union College Student Directory. Many students are wondering why there was a defay in publication. Another p~- zlement is tbe omission o{ the entire freshman class from the directory. Dean Woo!l.of Residence Life explained that the late arrivlil of the Student Directory was a result pf a chenge in staff in the offices of bclth the Dean ·Of Students and Residence Life. Approximately three-fourths of the staff in both of these · departments had left Union College last year, including aU of those responsible for p~Jblishin~ the Directory for the past few years. The new staff me~be~s co1J}d not-orgap~e tb,e publicat1on .of the ~ctory -~ quickly a~ was hope&. . As .for the (!lass of 1991, those in charge of ordering the Directories simply forgot to include them. The Directories were printed before the oni.ission was discovered. The mistake was remedied by the subsequent .printing of a Freshman Supplement to the Student Directory. According to Dean Wo!Hl, there were problems in tbe lines of com- munication among the new staff in charge of the Directory. :He also mentioned that the staff members who forgot to include the freshmen are \no longer here.;' When Union students re- turn. from Winter . Break, they will receive a new complete Winter/Spring Directory. Tbis is because approximately two- hundred students change residence between fall and winter tenns, due in part to returning and departing TemiS Abroad students. This large- scale residence changing renders ten percent of the Student Directory useless. 'The Winter/Spring Directory will solve this problem and will include all freshmen. In addition, the annual ZBT Directory was · Scheduled 1o have. been picked UP fl-om tbe printers . We~e~11iay, Nov- ember 18. It SboUltl be in all students' mallbo~es by ne~ Monday, November 23, tlle latest. This is not considerably later than last year, according to Geoffrey Schenkel, who is in . charge of the publication of the ZBT Directory. The in,. formation for this directory -is supplied for the most part lly the office of the Dean of Students. Mr. Schenkel says that this office was not entirely cooperative, hindering the publication process and resulting ina slight delay. The presence of U.S. misse in \Europe is · a recelit phenomenon. From 1960 to l!NS there were no U.S. intermedi~te range nuclear weapons ba$«1 ·· tbere, W~e said that durillg the SALT talks; Helinut Seh.- midt approached hfm alld v~iced concern about UrS. : • :sensitivity to · Europe's • vulnerability to nucleai\ attael: · · \What concerns us is that y(Jti andtheSoviet Union are talkiJ!g about weapons that can hit ea~h of y()u and ignore weapons. tllat . can hit Europe but. are not a. threat to the U.S.\ Specifically, Sehmi.dt wanted SS-20 limitations incorporated in SALT. Warnke said that it w.as utoo late in the game\ t() • COJ1M)rate Schmidt's prQposa. mstead we developed a protoctJl · Stuclent Forum and AAC Disagree ·on Timing of Gel- Time Survey By VlRGINlE MELlO What dD- you think of gel- time? 'l'llis is a question that seems to be coming up as the terlll co111es to an end .. Maay people likE the new system because they can organize- their time better; ~thers are con- fused abo~i the right nights to go out andp11rty. :aoth tile !;tudent Forum and the Acatlemic .Affairs Council are interested in the answer to this questio11, yet they .differ on . their opillims of when a survey should be taken. When the idea of a sUI\'Vey during winter term regist.ratiOII was brought to the ACC, tllej shot down the .proposal. N~bers . think that -students sh:ollld have more time to make a· jttdgement; they feel that a stmJey should be taken only after two years. They also • think that if .a survey is taken several Urnes JL year, students will stt1bbornly stick to their good or bacl views. In additi()n, faculty me!Ilbers do not want any info-rmation getting 'ex- pedition'' jll:St for the sake of getting da~. The ·idea was again brought:YP at an ACC meeting and tne committee came up with a CQmpromise to have one sur- vey, this year. During the spring term, the . A.CC would make a subCommittee to for- mulatequestifns for approval. Although Student Forum \~ruly respects the idea that they don't want to have a survey\ for the reason above, · they still intend t~ give one every term. The forum feels that most stlldents will be open . minded about gel·time and will express themselves if they do change their minds. Moreover, the survey will note progressive change in opillion. If throughout . the year, for elallilple; there is a higher percentage of academic warnings along with the questionnaires · saying that people have trouble organizing their time, tile Student Forwn can more clearly see the effects of gel-time. In addition the Student Forum cannot study and act on the results of the surveys if they are not given at the end of the year. .people have the \Winter blues\ and feel cooped up. In tile spring, however, people are happy to get outside and are looking forward to the summer. In giving t~e .surveys . these factQrs will be taken into ac~ count, and though the ACC may disregard the resUlts, the . questions may work in a . positive way in helping to bri11g out PQtehtial problems with gel~ time. November 19, 1987 AAC ·Consld.ers Future Writing Requirements By 1)-EBRA B. HONIG 'The Academic Affairs Council will start constructing a proposal this Wednesday for the iinplememtation of writing reqllirements int<» Union~s (lurriculum. When . drawing up the proposal, the AAC will consider the rec()mmendations of the Sabcouncil on Writing, and the advice of professors from other institntio11s with model writing ~tmiculums. Keith Bemis, a student member of the AAC, said., \What we're doing is looking at how we can promote Vlriting within the curriculum .. ~ \Ve are loolting at the spirit behilld it all to see if there is a needfor it.\ . . Il~mis . ,~W1ained ~~t althongb· ·students movr take . Fresbme11 Preceptorial, .and at times are engaged in a senior . thesi$, there may be a need for more significant writing ex- periences for the years in between. Therefore the AAC is considerillg retainir!g the Fresllmen Preceptorial, defining particular classes as \W\ credits to be taken before seniiJr year, and requiring a rneaningflll writing experience in . tl:le sellior year, suclt as a thesis or a .seminar. 'lhe Subcouncil on writing, wllich co11sisted of professors Manfred Jonas (chair), David Ee::~l, Adrian Frazier, Frank Milillio, Alan Nelson, and Thomas Werner, had made extensive suggestions to im- prove the. preceptorial class in its report to the AAC i111986. It recommemded \ ... introducing upgraded writing assignments; substitutillg student-reader reports for faculty-graded first drafts a11d/or reqllired con- ferences at some stage of the process; . reducing the nwnber · ·of required papers by sub- . stitutipg ()De longer for two of the shorter papers; and con- tinuing, in the selectioll of See- '\W\ CREDIT, p. 2 The St11den~ Forum, on the other han!l.,. feels that a slll'Vey shOuld ~ ~ken every term. The Forwn also brings out the important point tlult duriRg an te~ people have different . attitudes .. In winter term most Photo-of tha Week

( Page 2 .. CONCORDIENSIS, Novemb~r 19, 1987 Some Cross-Curricular ·Courses To Merit \W'' Credit Continued from page '1 readings for the C()Urse, to pay particu-lar attention to the relationship between the length, number, and diffi(!ulty of the wm~ks chosen and t:he goal of providing practice in writing and close reading.'~ _ se_ssions to assure a more successful program. :t'he AAC is also looking at the recommendation to pr~mote a senior writing experience, via theses, projects, seminars, and independent study, most preferably · in the student's major A representative from Bucknell University offered her opinion to the AAC yesterday, since Bucknell's new writing .program is similar to the one Union is considering .. Professor Nelson said that this representative did a great deal ofthe \political work\to get the faculty at Bucknell to buy the proposal. One such \W\ course that Bucknell .has is called \Classical and Modern Physics as an Introductory Writing Course.'' Stephen Becker, chairman of the physics department wrote, \Physics is lntercoUegiate News an eXIcellent subject for this approach to writing because the concElpts are difficult and call for great ·exactness of word chOice and sentence con- struction. And we believe the 'carryover' of these sentence skills from our course to others will be better than the usual ca11ryover from. English composition to science cour- ses.'' After the AAC finalizes its proposal, sometime next term, the council wHl present it to the faculty and the General Education Board. Bemis. noted that the writing .proposal is separate ~rom the · general education proposal, although the two are closely related. Regardless of the final decision, Bemis does not think thi:i'f the full writing process will be implemented within the next three to four years. College Awarded . Grant for Teacher Edu,~ation .Program Tl,u Fund for Improvement of : undergraduates. and a fifth year Po~t·Secondary Education Master of Science in Teaching (FIPS;E), a fund operated by , (M.S. T.) will begin in the fall of the DEpartment of Education, : · 1988. has ~_..,arded the college with a , $96;()00 grant to begin a new program for teacher education. · _ This IJrogram is designed to prepare undergraduate and gracl.~te students careers in teacllillg. Oat ()f 2,000 applicants, the Colleg:e was one of 75 in- . · Stituti()ns chosen to be given a grant by FIPSE. The College's grant 'Will be doled out over a 3- year period. Pr()gram coordinators Joan Krej.ci, associate dean of graduate and continuing studies and 1'erry Weiner, acting dean of f~tcuUy, state that an Educati<>nal StudiES . program with a. four-year option for The M.S.T. would certify- graduates to teach math, English, science, history.social studies, and foreign language in grades .7 throl).gh 1'2.. The .program is qpen to all students and is fleXible such that jllniors cfln apply in the middl~ a£ the year and seniors have the option of taking the fifth-year master's degree. In order to grad11ate, each student would have to complete six \W\ writing Ullits, where a \W-1\ counts as one unit, and a \W-3'' counts as tl!ree units. Each student musttilke at least one W-3. In a ]Ji-ece called ''What Can a 'W'' C()urse Be?\ Professor Nelson Elaborated, \Such courses are designated 'W' because they undertake to include a certain amount and kind Gf writing in them, For certification as 'W'\ any course will call for some rninirnurn of work in writing, but the minimum may be satisfied by a large variety of kind:s. A course does not qualify fora 'W' simply by injecting a long term paper due in the last week.'' A W-1 course could involve essays, journals, lab reports, logs, brief summarys, or short stories, and faculty feedback could be oral o1· ·written, and graded or upgraded. A W-3 course would also encourage. formal response, ex:.cept that it would entail-enough writing for tht) professor to re~!l'()nd at least three times. \This would hopefully promo1e revisions and deeper insigllt for future assignments. Bates Dean Discusses Discipline tor Date Rape Krejci adds, \We want tu establish a teacher education px:ogram within the context of this selective,. liberal arts college, as a model of the discipline-centered approach. We . will strive to graduate students who have .not ~mly developed the valuable education and communication skills that are necessary for them as classroom teaehers, 'but have also acquired a strong base of knowledge. in their particular field of study.'' . According to a survey that Union conducted, 23 percent of its graduate students are in- terested in such an M.S.T. program which would enable them to obtain teacher cer- tification while continuing study in the field. Lewiston ME (l.P~)- One in miscommunication. Sometimes five college women will be it is easier to educate a person victims of date rape. Does it w.ith.ou~ the\ ~hreat of happen here at Bates? \I think dtsclplmary action about that it is happening every bec()ming more sensitive to and weekend,\ says Cnris Tisdale picking up signals, from an()ther director of Health Services for pers()n.\ Bates College adding that Branham furtber commented \when you say that to a room on the diffuculty of taking full of freshmen women or criminal or disciplinary action sophomore or junior women saying that \it is a difficult they say, 'oh yes ... easily every process because the victim weekend.'\ \It is my conclusion that it feels immense arn()unts of guilt and tl!ey have to work through that. \They feel responsible for it whe11 they aren't. It is per· · sua<ling them that they are not resiJonsible, that is the difficult task.,, Tisdale feels that ''The bot- tom line is simply th?t any one partnEr' in a relationship has the rigllt t() say no at any point ' along the line. The Subcouncil said that the writing will be milced into the usual academic courses, and that the \W\ courses would not be strictly composition courses. This \writing across the curriculum\ would be, ac- cording to the repor:t, easier to adopt, and mor.e beneficial. does exist,\ says Associate Dean F. Celeste Branham. ''I'm not certain how prevalent it is, that is hard to find out... very few get reported to the Dean's office. To the extent that it exists at all, it is a problem.'' THANKSGIVING Mt:GA·SALt:! Aaron Carrell, the student vice president tor acactermc Affairs, believes that tile students' requirements would not really change, because the writing would be incor:pmated into already ex:isting ~ourses. He indicated that there is concern about how the changes would be implemented, although professors would be able to attend seminars and training Definitions of date rape vary. Tisdale defines date rape as being \physically or psychologically .coerced into having a sexual relationship against one's will by someone known to the victim.\ Asked if she would encourage someone to take disciplinary action in a c~se of date rape Dean Branham replied: \No not in all cases because in many cases, I think the issue is one of different exp_ectations and Graduate Scho<>l of Education & Human Development University .of Rochester A variety of graduate programs are offered at the Masters and Doctoral Level Certi:fi(ation programs ate also offered Financial Aid and Scholarships Available For more information consult your Career Placement Office or \ft'ite or call (collect) (lftice of Academic Services Graduate Scll.Clol of E<luc:ation and Hume:1 Development '304 Lattimore Hell . Oniversity·ot R.ocheS1e1\. Rochester NY 14627 716Z153950 PLt:NTY Of SAVINGS! UP$75·0ff TO. _ . Order Now·~ Pay in March! Gold Rings* JIRTfARVED® \( )CLASS RINGS Nov. 19- Dec. 1 Campus Store DATE TIME PLACE • . tit Dtpoait RtQuil'td. · · 9 198B ArtCarved Class Rings \Offer valid !lilly for lite puR:IIIIIt of At1Cinld CIIIIIIJI rinQI dlirlng dlllK ablll'l.

CONCORDIENSIS, Novemb~r 19,. 1987 Page 3 Warnke States A.rms Control is Our ''Mos·t Concern'' Elemental Continued .frcm page 1 nuclear missiles ill Europe the otiginal intent of our threatened deployment 1 we are now asking ()urselves whether we ' ':want to take 'yes' for an answer.'' Despite the ()pporti1Ility now to achieve. wh~t was our goa:l ahnost a decade ago, there is still a camp which says \no\ to clim.ate :between the two countri~ will influence the succES.~ of the talks. Profess()r Bllg~i11s wonders how suc- cessful ai'inS limitation talks will.b~ wllen, at the same time, the t T() Sup~rpowers are figlltjag e~ch other via covert fundin~ of warring military fol\'ceso It's hard to imagine nego.tiiltm·s sitting down in good fai1:lt ~heri other sectors of the t:w<l g()vernrnents are battiing it out Oil ()ther fronts. Though he peJ'S()~ally d()es not believe in u.s_ intervention in local co110icts, Warnke said that noth..illg should ip.terfere with stdet pursuit of arms contrt)l. \''rhe agreement not to blow ourselves off the face of the earth is our most elemental concern.\ Despite the apparent ob- stacles, Mr. Warnke believes that ''we are on the verge· of a treaty which would eliminate intermediate range rnissilt;Js.\ Part of this optimism comes from the .fact that Gorbachev, motivated by economic CDn- cerns,. seems sincere in his destre to eliminate the in- termediate range nllclear weapcms.. For olir part, ''We have to give up the illusioll that there is somethmg out there besides arms control wb.ich will decrease the chance of nuclear war.'~ Pre-Registration Task Force To Tackle Card Course Policy By TAMMY TIBBETTS ·- As pre-registration draws to a close, it . is a good time to question this process that calls for numerous trips to professors' offices and acquaints most everyone quite adequately with the Registrar's office. A Pre-Registration Task Force is being set up in order to best address this questioning. This task force has been established because of com- plaints about the system over · · the past two to three years made by the faculty and student bQdy. Its responsibility is to examine what possibilities exist for change and to report back to the Academic Affairs Com- m:ittee, which has the power to Associate Dean of Faculty, Terry Wiener. · the Soviet proposal. ThE crux of t]Jeir argument is that ''the eHmination :of (intermedi-ate range) nuclEar weapons would decrease the deterrent ·to conventional invasion by the U.S.S.R.'' In resP«JnSe, Warnke says that any location that can be hit with intermediate range nuclear weapons can also be hit by either submarine launched missiles or land·hased ICBM's. Secondly, \it makes fl() sense to think ·of nuclear weapons as ·a response to a Warsaw Pact invasion,'' Warnke said that with a nuclear respollSe, we could first expect tlle disap- - pearance of Germany and then attack on the United States .. Leichter Requests Reform of Legislature change the system. Terry Weiner, assistant dean of faculty and a member of the task f()rce, says that the two general options available are to buy completely new registration software or \fiddle with the current system.\ It will take a year or so to determine whicll option would suite Union's students better. The task force will be exammmg other schools' systems for registration as well as student opinion on campus. Dean Weiner states that students will have to choose what is more important to them: choice or time. Students can eitber be guaranteed one of their first three choices, their instructor, or the opportunity to know what courses they will take en the same day that they sign up for them. A survey of studemt attitudes will be distributed by the task force to help determine what students value most highly in pre- registration. Right now it ap- pears that the faculty ate most concErned with the students getting their courses. Students, on the other hand, are often more concerned about getting certain professors. U .. S. missile deployment in Europe also has to be p11t in the broader scQpe of the current U.S. deterrent strategy. The MX missile- a highly accurate but vulnera:ble to fir-st strike weapon, and the cruise missile- an undetectable and un- verifiablefirststrike weapon, in part mark United State~'s drift from the Mutually Assured Destruction strategy to tile idea of a strategic nuclear war embodied ·in \Counter£orce .. \ Mr.. Warnke says that, however regrettable, MAD is \the best we have been able to do.\ It acllieves the goal of ''neither side (having) any incentive to start a nuclear eKchange.\ He added t:hat \no rational leader would make the conscious decision to start a nuclear war.\ The pnly other possible cause would be desparation or fear. First strike weapons or star wars technology which can be used in conjunction with a first strike may lead to tl:lis climate .off ear. A feeling of mistrust also does nothing to alleviate tllis fear. Warnke said that unforti1Ilately \Gorbachev does not believe in the tooth fairy\ and does not believe thai we will sllare S.D.!. as Reagan promised at Reyk- javik and, in addition~ he will not allow tile Soviet Union to reduce its forces by ()0 percent, giving us a first strike capability. A question by professor Martha Huggins fO<ltiSed the discussion on how tb.e political &y D.A VID GULLIVER Editor-in-Chief (Reprinted from theLegislative G3;zette) .A()~Julwiedging that the Legislature \will have to be ?ragt;ed kicking and screaming m1o ·tile 2oth century,\ Sen. Fra.n:z Leichter called for refo.rr:ns of its \antiquated UildEIIlocratic,. secretive end o~en•to.:.abuse'' procedures~ Lelcbter called for reform at a !}ress conference where he ann.o11rrced a package of rebrDJ~ that he sent in a letter to every legislator in both hou:se:s. He stressed in both the leiter and the press conference tltat he is attacking \pl'Et!edtuest not individuals.\ \']mere is an enormous gap bet\OVeen the potential of the lllem. and women in the Legisla.ttlre and the quality of tl1e legislation they produce,\ he sai(l.. LEicllter, D-Manhattan, is not jli!Ilpin~ on .a bandwagon; he has voted against the legislative bud.get for each .of the .past 18 yeall's: in protest of how it is IIIade:. Tile budget was his primary tar~et. t..eichter called it . \symtbolic and e~pressive\ of tlte LW:Jgislature's abuses. ''It is essEmtially a blank check . pre:;~11ted to the speaker and majority lEader,\ he said~ \If tnat sort of budget was ap- pro'Ved for the governor (for e:xe-cl.ltive - programs), the LE~i~a1ure would be up iQ. ••••••••••••••••••••••• This Week's Events: Thursday, November 19 7-9 p.m. College Center 4()9.: S1udent Forum Sp.m .. 8-10 p.m. Me·eting .f\Jott Memorial \Jtle.atre: Aristophanes \The Birds\ C()llege Center A.urji1orium: Social . Committee Dating Game Fridav, November 20 7, 9, 11 p.m. College Center .AaJdltorium Film :\Tin Men~· 8 p.m. f\3()1t Memorial Ttnatre: Aristophanes \~he Birds\ · 9p.m .. Midnight West College: Casino Night · Saturday, November 21 7, 9, 11 p.m. College Center Auditorium Film: \Tin Men\ 8 p.m. N()tt memorialllle~tre. Aristophones \The B.irds.\ . , Sunday, Novernb~r 22 7, 9, 11 p.m. College Center \'ll<li1orium: Film: \Tin Men\ ••••••••••••••••••••••• arms.'' He proposed an itemized budget that weuld detail how much each member gets for staff, for mailings, and bow much goes to each committee. In addition, each committee should have separate allocations for the majority and minority. Lei.:hter said that \if we had a legislative budget that S]Jelled out duties of staff, we wollld not have had the charges of abase.\ He added that so far, only one senator, Howard Nolan, sup- ported this budget idea, but said that budget reform was the most likely of any ()f his proposals to carry. He also said that he does not support N()lan's part-time legislation idea, but appla11ded Nolan for !I1aking public the idea of legislators' workload. ' He said that 90 percent of · members would say they were · dissatisfied with the Legislature's workings, but \herd instinct\ and \fear of being punished of losing chairmanships, mailing or extra staff\ would cause !I1any to withhold support. Lekhter said that joint legislative commissions are the \hiding grounds\ for no·show jobs and should be eliminated. He said they were ineffective, and lie actually resigned from . the hazardous waste committee because it did \very littl$.\ Leichter _ also pmposed redistribution of power in the Legislature. \We must reduce the power of leaders,\ he said. The Senate majority leader's ~ H:GH ':·::===n , If YOU WANT TO BEA PHYSICIAN, WE'Ll PAY FOR n. If you're. willing to 1nvest your skills and knowleoge·aS an Air Force medical officer, we'll invest in you and pay your way through medical school. It's the Armed Forces Hedlth Professions Scholarship Program It pays for * Tuition; • Books, supplies. equipment and lob fees; • Plus a monthly income of more than $550. Cq.~ll CIIJJt AI GugmlH!rger I ·800-USA • tJS.l.f power to \star\ a bill, to mark it with a star declaring that it will not be voted on, is a symbol of that power. He also called for equal staffing for all members, except where extra staff is justified by a member's extra duties and for revision of the process of choosing committee chairs. Chairs are now selected by house leaders; Leichter proposed choosing them by party conferences or selecting them from senior legislators on the committee. . \Member items\ also need reform, Leichter said. \Some legisJators get up to $1.8 million to hand out to organizations in -their districts .... (while) those in the minority parties get only $100,000.\ He said that every member should get the same amount. Legislature procedures that lead to \bills falling on our desks like leaves in a fall storm\ should also be changed; a joint Senate-Assembly con- ference committee to' reach compromises would solve the · problem, he said. The Congress has a similar conunittee .. Spokesman for the Republican majority in the Senate said that Leichter had made such proposals in the past and they had not yet been ?qopted. Assembly Sepaker Mel Miller, currently in Taiwan, has been working on a package of . possible reforms since he came into office, spokesman Geoffrey Taylor said. The public can effect change through voting, but \just changing legislators ain't gonna do it,\ Leicnter said. \We have to change procedures.\ THE TYPING MOM •Theses •Dissertations • Manuscripts • Resumes •Cover Letters e Reports PROMPT SERVICE > & REASONABLE RATES ;~. . Thanks To our fall term news writers! See you in the Winter. ·Fiona and Becky . . , ....... Another issue being ad- dressed is that of card courses. Dean Weiner explains that right now it is a question of when to use card courses. For such departments as Political Scieace and Economics, where they are used eKtensively, he agrees that is a good idea because of the large mnnbers of students involved in those departments. .He also states, ''They make sense within the confines of the system, but they are not the best way.\ One juniO\r Political Science major speaks highly of the way the Political Science Department handles pre-registration: ''The reasoa it works for Political Science is because the depart- ment itself makes it work by adding work to the process. I'm referring to sending a descriptive memo to majors along with a pre-registration form, which are also available in the office for non-majors. They have a comprehensive system which I've never heard to be thought unfair.\ What is needed now is student input. The committee is com- prised of three faculty members and two upperclassmen, who have yet to be selected. If you are interested and are a junior or semior, contact Geri Mackey of the. Committee on Com• mittees. In order for this task forcE to be • completely suc- cessful, students must deter- minE what they want from pre- registration and make their voice heard. Dean Weiner says, \There's no college in the world, whether it be Harvard, Univ.ersity of California at Berkeley, or Union, where you'll get all the courses you want. \ That is a legitimate statment, . but perhaps a dif- ferent system or changes within the present one will make the · entil•-e process easier on everyone .

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, Nov-ember. 19, 1987 FEATURES Talk of the Town Concordy recently asked: What was the highlight of your fall term? photos and interviews by Stan Kitzinger .. \Mandatory lifting on Tuesdays and Thursdays.\ The unknown football player J[;_,: --~··· - ,_ .•... \Unquestionably -the auhllJ.lji';UL of my term was the Halloween costume party.'' BobKoch'88 ''Dinner at the Patio last Saturday night.'' Dina Golas '89 \Living in Potter with the Potter Pod.\ Heidi Gr.oener '91 \Pledging Delta Delta \ Leslie Kahn & Lis Sorkenn '91 ''Seeing Presmo in his goggles bathing suit every day; he's got a hot body. Learning how to roll akayak.\ Kate Idle Fall Term Remembered By EMILY SOOHOO Today ends another episode of the Fall Term mini-series at Union College. This issue of Concordiensis is the last one for the term, for 1987. The next copy of the school newspaper will have a new year on it. It will be telling about upcoming events during the winter term. The past ten weeks happenings will be history bound in black and white on an obscure shelf in Schaffer Library. All that we have experienced this term has accumulated to a peak, only to settle between two large hardcovers and flipped through by students who seek alter- natives to studying for exams. Perhaps this picture doesn't grasp your emotions. But for many seniors, this time represents the final Fall term at Union college. It's not merely the fact that it's the end of ten weeks of classes. What is relevant to us who have sura vived 3 and.l/3 years at Union, is the loss of .continuation in our collegiate lives. We have arrived at a terminus, not only in the year, but in a whole section of our existance. In an attempt to eliminate the gloom of this realizStion, readers are invited to reflect upon the \lasts'' at Union c(Jllege. Let's start talking about the end at the beginning. The initial event of fall term is. freshman orientation. For seniors, it wa~ the last op- pcrtunity to be OAs. It was the last chance to ,participate in the assimilation of a new class of Union students. For some seniors, freshman orientation symbolized the last time to tell tb()se awful jokes to the JJewcomers about going to the sauna on the fourth floor of Davidson Dol'lnitory or meeting Mel Gibson, president of Phi Sigma Kappa, 1969. Let's get one thing straight. There is absolutely no son·ow in the thought of taking Fall finals for the last time. However, it is somewhat sad to recall studying for Fall finals as a freshman. That certainly was a long, long time ago. The library was· the true social scene. Put on your best studying attire, drag all your boOks, and meet your friends· at the table in the President's room. I hesitate to elaborate on this subject for it's already been covered in a recent Coo.cordiensls. In any case, little did we know, that was the start of an intense competition: who could get the highest grades by studying the least? Making the most noise, ContinUed on page 6 Luck of the Draw BySUESHAFFJ!JR One's biggest fear upon en- tering college is :aot ene of leaving home, or ~he workload that awaits or eve11 the new responsibilities· that we all must take on but rather what one's roomate will bedike. Upon receiving onE's housing assignment, the realization that the day is not far wllen you will soon be face to facE 'With a total stranger, your roomate, sinks in. You try to reasslil'e yourself that even the worst can not be too bad, but YOl1 know that you are only fooling you['self. If you can't live with your sister who you are supposed t() love how can you be expected to live with a total stranger. Asyou begin to rationalize your fears, you remember the contract which you had signed. Tllree things would be taken into con- sideration but tlle actual selection process would be random. There .are times however when your choices do not matter. Asking for a coed suite left me in a single sex double. Luckily for you, however, that along with Concordiensis GENERAL MEET,ING FOR ALL ~ INTERESTED WRITERS • !I I See pg. 10 . Stuart's; Sat., 11 p~m. Seepage7 Tonight 9:00p.m. Soclal Committee Presents mift@ J])@~oow ~@ WJiltihl h cms1t: D<emm A~f~1rd Come see yoW\ fri-ends reaLize theirfa,te Thursday, 9:00p.m. Coll.ege Center Auditorium housing assignment is included the name and phone number of your roomate. By calling, you can prepare yourself for what to expect in September. There is oRly so much that you can read into a name and a voice. Your miml starts to pl~y games with you and your worst enemies come into view. Sure, you are. looking forward to meeting all sorts of new and different people but sharing the small confines of your room, your home with any odd type .is nathing to look forward to. What if she thinks your Poaky Bear is silly'? Every character type enters your mind. Will she be a jack, a jap, a hippie, a prep, etc.? As long as she is a nice person, you're set. All it takes is being considerate to one another's needs. You try to be open minded and hope for the best. Since selection is random, you place your self in the hands of fate and wait. The day arrives for you to come _face to face with this stranger whom you will be sharing your college experience with. You know that whatever she ·is like there is much to be learned from h~1'. There is always the security of knowing that you can change rooms if it becomes unbearable. Amazingly enough, Union's success rate is comparable to other schools Which utilize personality tests and lengthy questionaires. Through the consideration of just three factors, students are placed with roomates of similar values. People can be from anywhere, dress in any ~tyle, present themselves in any manner but if they · share similar values then they would make good roomates· and friends. · With Union's success rate with freshmen roomate selection being comparable to that of other schools., we must place our faith in the system. Although we feared that first day and other's will.share our fears in the future, we must remember that even the worst · · situations work themselves out and that the best situations won't be experienced unless we keep an open mind. From Green to Grey By MARK HAUGHTON Under certain conditions, current attitudes and concerns, our race exists and operates on a course which is leading us to self destruction. The unity of our brotherhood is gone. Our factions clash in war while our leaders dubiously promote civility. Every aspet;t of our society is infiltrated with in- dividualism and ·consumption. This article will radically object to the actions of our race as a whole, concentrating specifically on waste. We are the only animal who derives pleasure from self- inflicted aggression. The entire history of our race is scarred by war. Think of what animal you know exists and behaves with the intention of facilitating the destruction of its own kind. The human being is so consumed by pride that it has become im• possible for us to manage our existence on earth. We evolved from \lower\ forms of life and we will extinguish ourselves · from eltistence under the laws of evolution. We are so smart, so able to adapt, so creative and so intense. Yet, if our destruction were to occur within one million years we would have been the least successful life form to inhabit this planet. That seems all too likely. We would also have been the most damaging factor to all life forms. We study the stars in search of other life yet we neglect ours. We breed at such a rate that we over-crowd the planet. In the miniscule time that our species has inhabited the earth we already feel the restrictions imposed by the dissipation ()four resources. Often these resources are gone before we realize that they were ever in shortage. Clean water, clean air, clean earth; these no longer exist. The in- stances of pollution are on the rise. The effects seen on all life forms from this contamination are visible. Still we continue-to operate at an unyielding rate of consumption, oblivious to the destruction. Our race is not actively concerned with this destruction. We simply ignore the pertinence of this issue. And because this is just an issue, we choose to lower its priority on the governmental agenda. Well, I assure you that this issue will . surface with force and with tragedy. One would like to believe that if we concentrated on solving this problem as a race that, in fact, we could eradica,te it. Not so. The characteristics of the contamination disable our efforts to deal with the issue. We do not know how to \per- manently'' store nuclear waste bllt out production of it con- tinues to increase. The simple garbage that le1:1-ves our kitchen dlle to the packaged food age, is enormous and growing. Our landscape is dwindllng away from the construction of homes i)nd the search for resources. The forests of the Amazon are so depleted that their extinction affects the climate of the earth. What will it take to change the attitudes of these hwnans? Is it too late? Our learning has always been accomplished through trial - and error; however, the error of con- tamination on this scale seems too large to effectively curb. We will not be allowed the chance to learn from our mistakes. Instead, we will perish. Our entire anti~ partidipitory philosophy con- cerning the desire to eradicate this problem must be changed. The key is education. We must install in youth a sense of pride for life, pride for existence and pride for our environment. We have abandoned the desire for racial harmony. I write in hope that my children don't suffer from the effects of this destruction. I feel that I write in vain. (jreen Peace It's time to ~ r. . fl get tnvo~rveu~ I - !\! .. ! .i; ·• I, ,, !l I' ,, ·~' .,, \ ,•• f I .,. \ r 1 .. ;, \; .) ,. ;t ...... ~ ~I :!,1 :f \;: ·,Ill 'I ll ·'. -~ .\ ;~-: ) ·~ \ ·I Jl !i ;;'~ t '. ~ -~ '~. ~ :l j)

i ' CONCORDIENSIS, November· 19, 1987 Page 5 FEATURES Leg\l Brief lmprov Co.me·dy Editor's~·note: Legal brief will be appearing weekly for tbe rest of the school year~~ 'By TINA SCIOCCHETl'l How many of you came back t() :sehool and discovered that tile ''friends\ you sublet y<rur apar-tment to really weren't _fr-iends. after all? Does y{)ur apartment look like the athlete tba t stayed there this s11lll!ller de<cided to hold a pre-seas<Jn .scrimmage on your living ro()m nt~ (using your furnitlire as eqtiipment)? Or do you feel li:ke a welfare department wotker~ha:ving given out free housing for three months? Well, don't .send Uncle Vito to collect the money. It won't help. What win help is taking the timeto pnotect yourself . and your apartment against not·so- considerate sublettors and assignees. There are two meth()ds by wllich someone can assume the lise, privileges and respon- sillilities of another's le:ase. Thoey are assignment and subletting. An assignment is a conveyance by the original tenant to the assignee of all his interest in the apartment.· In other words, the original te11ant f'etains no right or interest in· that apartment. A sublease is a conveyance by the original tenant of a temporary or limited interested in 1he aJ)artment. The original ten<~nt may reclaim the interest and rigllt to the apartment after the spEcific term of the subl-ease · llas expired. Regardless of whethel' a lessee assigns or sublets, that Jlerson will nevertheless remain liable to the landlord under the tel'rns of the lease. That means t~at the lessee is responsible for both the rent and any damage >dorue to the apartment. lt is important to know that utlless tile su~tenant specifi<:ally assumes the lease of the tenant he is subletting frotn, he tl! aot liable to the landlord, \l'he sublettor ..J.s liable (by his agree!llent) only to the sobletting tenant. In other words, unless the sublettor assumes your lease, in writing, y()u as the lessee are liable for all rent owed and damage done. The sllblettor is then liable to youforthatamount. Under assignment, on the other hand, both the original tenant and the assignee remain liable . to the landlord. The · · landlord may ·go after either and both parties to collect for . back rent and damage done. As you can see, these are very complex and risky issues for students to handle. To help simplify them and to prevent any future problems you may com;ider ·taking the following steps as a precaution: A) WritteD Sublease. Before running off the Cape for the sUll1mer, you should make sure to draw 11p a sublease. Don't . write it up with your roonunate on the back of your ZBT Direct()ry. Have it drafted and reviewed b-y an attorney. B) · D~posit. W:ost students feel awkward about asking a friend for one or two monthS deposit, but it is better to have some type of security in case your sublettor decides to use rent money for a Christmas break. ticket\ to the Bahamas. The deposit could also be used to pay for any damage a sublettor may leave behind. C) Notify Landl~rd. It is advisable that you inform your landlord that there will be sublettors in the . apartment, unless it will cause problems with the landlord. Acce>rding to N.Y. State law, if you live in an apartment building with four or more units, your landlord may nat unreasonably allow you to sublet. but use your judgement here. Investiag a little time before assignipg or subletting your apartment could protect you from a lot of unnecessary costs and aggravation. With proper preparation it can allow you to safely defray the cost of maintaining your apartment while you are away. _ ~------ The a11thor welcomes legal questions of concern to students and £acuity. Questions may be addressed to: Box lSll.Legal advice by Paul V. Sciocchetti, Esq., Schehectad,y, N.Y. JLinnuac· . Casino g{jglit sponsorea 6y Socia{ Y'llternatives Committee At West College Dining Hall When: Friday, November 20, ~987. 9:00 prn -12:00: am Proceeds wilC go to a {oca{ cfiarity. See You %ere/ \ ~ By CATHY MARKES Features Editor Anyone who attended the comedy show last Friday was able to enjoy a great night of improvisational comedy at the Auditorium at The College Center. Sponsared by the Social Alternatives Committee. The evening began with pizza at 7 p.m., and the comedy began at 8. The performance revolved around the talents of Abrams and Anderson, yet included the comi~alideas of the audience as well. In the same way that Union's Court Gestures used to do, they relied heavily 011 quick: comments,· situational and double-entendre comedy. The night began with a skit situated at the top of a ferris wheel, with the two comedians having to introduce all the objects the audience had previollsly shouted out, into the act. It was humorous to see how they gradually incorporated all the ideas, no matter how strange, into the snappy dialogue. I'm still pondering how you'd .slowly drain a waterbed with an electric can opener at the top of a ferris wheel, but t}lat's a ffii!JOr detail The comedy continued as the pair progressed into new and different skits. In one of the better routines, Abrams sat in a chair with her arms behind her, while Anderson put his arms into a cardigan sweater which he then put over his partner. With the hilarious combination .of his arins and her facial ex· . pressioons, the ·two went through a list of about twenty- five ''things you do with your hands.\ Pe11haps the most amusing point of the evening came when Abrams made Anderson leave the room, and then created an identity for him to guess, along with a proverbial saying. She was the only person who could give him clues, and I couldn't stop laughing as he tried to THANK YOU TO ALL THE TEAMS WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE FALL STUDENT PHONATHON: Cheerleaders Circle K Concordy Davidson 1st Floor North Tri-Delt Delta Gamma Gamma Phi Beta Gatesmen Kappa Sigma Karate Club LLoyd Mushbaum Express 1 · SDT The Whalers 4th Floor West SUPER JOBII! YOU RAISED A RECORD NUMBER OF PLEDGESI!I LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING YOU AT THE SPRING PHONATHON IN APRIL! U'lr\B'~1J''D'11\1f'U'1f'tfUtf1rft'U'1r'lfr SPECIAL THANKS TO THE STUDENT PHONATHON COMMITTEE ·FOR ORGANIZING A SUCCESSFUL EVENT! Judy Bruhn Jill Deutsch S1eve Hall Marjorie Hoffer \ Dave Wachtel Gina Mancuio Brad Oren Ed Stevens Erika Rauscher Thanks To Stan and All ~,Features Writers!· Cathy, Marjorie & ·Wendy • guess that he was Pinocchio, and that what he had to say was ''No glove, no love.\ It took a bit of innovative conversation and convincing, but finally An- derson was able to figure both out. All-in-all, the evening was well-attended and a change of pace for a Friday night at Union. Even the lovely wooden wall sculpture was good for a laugh! Thanks to the Social Alternatives Committee for all their efforts to make the evening an enjoyable sqccess. Ylny Suggestions for fJ:a{l( of tfie lJ'own can 6e Ceft in tJie · features bo;r at . tJie Concorc£y office. The following clubs have until 4:30, Tuesday, Nov; 24 to hand in status .,reports: -Concert Committee -Idealist -Scuba Club -Men's Rugby -Women's Rugby -Amnesty International -WRUC -Chemistry Club -Garnet -Karate Club -Speaker's Forum After this time, it will be necessary to petition the Finance Committee before spending previously budgeted funds. Extra forms are available in Mrs. Marra's office. .

.Page 6 CONCORDIENSJS, November 1!},. 1987 . FEA 1.,Ul~ES Fall Term • • • Con1i11ll&cl from page 4 using the lemst mental activity, and coverin~ the most miles betwee11 the stacks were among the events. I don't remember exactly wh()won_ that game, but the loser didn't survive to see Winter term. Despite the e~­ citement df Freshman Fall fiilals, it is unanimous among seniors that this event will not ·be missed. Another last that we've faced is our last Union Homecoming as non·alutlini. If all you seniors failed to ~rtcipate in making that llomec:oming flCJat and cheerirlg ()n at that homeoomin~ .football game, you blew it. In the past, we've gone to bits and piec!es of the football game .. We went to a couple of receptions and spent those coU])le of days as if there were going to be an endless number . of h()meeomings. However, this year was ow· last homecoming as mder-;graduates and it had to be viewed a little differently. Some seniors really made the most of tile weekend. Everyone begins t'() amass the collection of Uni()n paraphernalia that wollld put the oookstore to shame· Union calen· ders,tu'ggage tags, stickers, t- sbirts, etc. They went to every recepti()n and dinner there was to offer. They screamed at the football .game until our voices were dissolved and the Dut- clmlan smred the last touch- down. If you're still tmnking about becoming part of the Greek system, it's a little late~ This faU term was alsc the last time senior girls, (oops, .senior women) could attend sorority rush. If you failed to invest your 3 dollars and sign up for rush, you're destined to an in• dependent for life. And for all the senior sisters who did pledge in the past, this was the last sorority rush at which to sing and costume and decorate. I guess for senicr guys, they can still pledge. informally,. but the major time has elapsed. But if you wait any longer, hell week · might interfere with your law school midterms. Did anycne notice that the last football game against Fall Term •.. almost over Hamilton was attended by more people than usual? And most of those cheering for Union were probably seniors. Those who were'nt were senior citizens. Regardless of your love of football, it was your duty as a senior to make an appearance at the last Union.football game of the season, of your enrollment at the school. How could anyone resist the op- portunity to learn that a cor- nerback should look into the recievers eyes and not hold so much? And that a touchdown, an extra point, and a field goal totallO points. If this was your first football game in four seasons at Union, it was your last chance to learn about football by watcbing your peers. There is an endless number of reasons for seniors as to why this fall tenn does is somewhat a~t:fpical. Our history at Union College has reached heights beyond our abilities only to be detained by Christmas vacation. However; the journey toward graduation contains many memorable moments which are eS$ential to the develoment oftheindividuals of the class of 1988. Students who used to be conscious.about their actions and appearance find that . , · they have actually outgrown this phase. The new feelings is not apathy, but a realization that it is more important to Some o1 the members of AWARE Are You· Aware- By MARJORIE HOLFER In ·response to a lack of concern for womeR's .issues at Union, a group of student:; have reformed the former '\Women 's Network,\ to a new group called AWARE. The decision to change the name of the .organization stems from many factors. Along with redirecting the goals of the group, the initiators of AWARE have been very successful in .changing the the topics discussed at the meetings have ranged from .improvmg health services and improving the .status of women's athletics, t() recognizing specific women 011 campus. States one member, . !'We are staying away from the W'{)rd feminist. WhateveJ: accept and to appreciate that which we have and have ear- ned. Okay, that's enough of ~t . · stereotype of a person involved • in a \women's organization.\ · AWARE accomplishes should help the entire campus. We are a group of students dealing with all sorts of issues.\ At this point, the group is planning on organizing a program for eating disorders during winter term. Also pending, are plans for making birth control available at Silliman. There's no doubt that certain aspects of fall term at Union College will sincerely be missed by students after graduation. Little things like picking out Winter classes for the last time and packing up to go home fer , . Winter recess are things that ' seniors overlooked the past '· three years, but take notice of now. This concludes the fall chapter of senior year in :: Schenectady. However, stay . tuned for the mini ... series of the· : special moments of Winter · term as a senior at Union College which resumes in 1988. In the future, Maia says she hopes AWARE will have a permanent base on campus where a woman can go for any type of problem. She also is hoping to eventually establish a career network with women alumnae. However, as all members of AWARE agree, the strength of the group depends upon the involvement of th(l underclassmen. They will become the backbone of the organization. · According to Maia, \Anything AWARE works on should be something (the underclassmen:) want, because it's their life at Union.~' rirave{ to (jermany ani Ita[y . .. turn tfie page to Internationaf :features The two majcr forces behind the scenes of this year's AWARE are Samantha Brody and Maia Enzer. Samantha explained tliat the impetus for her interest in a women's organization resulted from the cases of \date\ rape on campus last year. She was contacted byJoanne Tobeissen after writing an article for Cou- cordiensis along with Alisha Dashef. Maia stated that she has been very uniinpressed with the lack of facilities for women at Union especially compared with other colleges. Other active members are Christine Telesca, who worked extensively on Women's Week last year . and the recemtly elected .officers: Mary . Ann Dunham and Mary Beth Manning as co-chairs; Robin Denenberg, 11ice-president; Claire Metzler~ treasurer; and Cindy Silverio,. public relations. Although this year's gQals are not formally written, some of AWARE is well on its way to becoming a stable and func· tional organization at Union. Although the final meeting for AWARE was held this past Wednesday, anyone interested in joinimg is invited to attended the meetings beginning winter term. WRUC The Dutchman presents a double header. 89.7 Friday 7:15 vs. Queens College Sunday 2:15 vs. Concordia College And •.. Saturday- Union BasketbaU U11ion at Albany 1:00 / (finals will be broadcast if Union wins on Sunday at 3:00) Attentk»rl freshman: the only way to get areuna Winter term. - .. I ~ ., l

CONCORDlENSlS, November 29, 1987 Page 7 German Kaffeehaus By LYNN DUFFY Last Tuesday night the German Club sponsored an evening of fine food and diverse entertainment. Mary .Ann Dunha:m c()mmenced .the evening by reciting a German poem, Die Lorelei, by Heinrich Heine. Jose Andrade ad!led to the festivities with a sob pev- formance of German classical mU:sic.. Nick Pic(Jirillo enligbtend the audience with a description of ·his past ex- _ periences as a student abr10ad in Ka11lsruhe. Various skits were performed by the beginning and intermediate German c]asses which contributedtQ the o11erall joyous atmosphere. · ~hree .students who :par- ticpated on the term abr«>ad to Germany, . Missy :Seal, A:llen Foster, and Colin Inge:rsQl, shared .;;!in amusing lb:nrick translated into Germa:n by· Professor Kellenter. Missy, a junior German majcn~ was quoted SCiying, \It's great to see that til~ Germ11n Club is becomillg more active on ca:mplls and we hope to have a lot morE people participating next term.\ The students who spent a term in. Freiburg, West Ger- many ,performed a skit .por- traying one of their weekly , exeursi(')ns to German eathe!lrals. Eric Lauerwald did a fine job depicting the antics of the fun,.,loving terms abvoad leader, P.rofessor Warde. Refreshments were provided by Susanne Lemmer, Michelle Van Patten, Professor Kelle11ter and numerous Germa11 10 students. Various Gerri'lall cookies, punch, and hot coffee were just among a few of the irr-esistables served. Ethall Starr summed the evening up well,. \It was a g,reat time artdflin:was had by aU; the only thing missing was authentic German beer.'' ' INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Germa:rn sttJdent, Martina Moore, eatililg typical German fare. (co.ntinued from page 4} 708 U nio·n Street side door, third floor RSVP 374-1854 Politics In Italy By ·MATTEO COVERI AB- :BONDIO Italian EcOnomist Explains Market Crash Editor's Note: This is tbe third article in a series on :foreign politics. F<Jr those of you who do not know it, Italy's current President is Francesco Cossiga, and he i.s originally from a region known as Sardegna. Region? Yes, Italy is divided into regions and the regions (regioni) divided into provinces (provinci). Every provincia is divided into communes (comuni). Now, how many of more than one party. Now, Italy is ruled by a pentaparite government which means that five parties are ruling the country while the others form the opposition. How these parties can manage to work together is not a miracle for Italians; they know that it depends on a multitude of compromises. As a matter of fact, the first thing one must learn when growing up in Italy is how to make compromises. By.JASONMESIINI~K On Monday, October 19, 1987 the stock market saw its greatest loss ever. In all, the Dow .Jones lost appf()ximately 5{)0 points, many times more than during the previous \great ~f'asb\ of 1929. During. tile week f()~l,~w~ni(the. r~c·e~t, cra~h, many str:ange thmgs Jjegan to happen. Many people panicked because they lost huge sums or money. Within a few shorl days, an unfortunate stockbroker would lose his life at the hand of an obviously dissatisfied client. The market continued to be Ullstable. One minute it would be up one 'hundred points ()nly to fall two hundred within the next how-. To better und.eL\stand these occurrences ami to try to prevent their reoccurrence, many economists have started to study the crash. We now understand our predicament better, alth<lugh we Kr.e hardly \out of the woods.\ To try. and explain what happened, Italian economist · Roberto Panizza, ()f the Universita degli studi di Torino, came to Union. This ye:ar he is teaching economics at New York University. ,Accol'dihg to Prof. ?anizza, there were many causes .of the crash. First of all, we h:ave the \Yuppies/' as he likes to say. A common proced11re used by' those with money in the stockmarket is to put i1l .a stop-loss order. This term refers to giving a com- puter' lin order t<> sell a person's stoc~s . ~t. ·a preset yaJue_. For exatnJ)le, if IBM stocks rise to $200, a. sto-ckholder can tell his broker to sell if it drops to $150. When 1BM hits $150, the com- puter\ will sell. In theory, this is a pedect system. However, for every seller, there must be a buyer. If at $150, the market bas too few buyers, the com}luter wili automatically lower the selling price. In reality-, that $150 may end up as $1Hi. As a cure for this, Prof Pani2z:a suggests we cut down on our technology. The use ·Of cornpilters and their speed is one factor. that brought this prol>lem upon us: He hopes that by not usmg computers, or at least by limiting thier use, sto~~C)ss orders will have a less extreme effect upon the marltet. Wllile the \Yuppies\ did play a part in the crash, the private secte>l\' cannot be held totally StJsanne Lemmer, German T.A, responsible. It was simply nmt· big enough .. The real culprit was the \Twin Deficit,\ or tbe foreign trade deficit and tbe economic policy of deficit spending. The foreign trade deficit is a real problem. Because we import many mol'e- products than we ex.port, many- American dollars are floating around in foreign countries .. People ·have invested in .tfue dollar for many years becau::;e of its stability. Now, however, it. is a less popular investmemt. Instead of investing in it, they- are getting rid of it. · The other major problem is deficit spending, an econoll1lie poliey extremely overused by- the Reagan administration. Tlhe nation has become so far in debt that it has several hut. markets. October 19, 1987 was truly a terrible day. The nation lost tile equivalent to one-half of its Gross National Product. Robertci Panizza feels that tlie worst is not yet over. In bis words, \The final bill has yet to come.\ He does not predict when it will come, but says tilal; most likely the country is in for' a depression. German TA Susanne Lemmer, thE teaching assistant frc:m Dusseldorf, West Germany,bas been doing a wonderful job<t:hU! year at Union inspiring illl· terest in the German Langusg.e and culture. In addition to giving drill sessions to be~in· ning German classses, she brus been extremely helpful i:l1 cooJ:dinating activities for iile German Club. Forexample,:slle arranged a cookie-bald!lg session for last week's K:af· feellau.s. Susanne, along Viitb some German students, baked over three hundred cookies for the party. Every Thursday, 3'tJU can find her at the Gerll!llln table in the Cotlege Cemter giving Union students the op- pof'tunity to speak with an amiable German nativE: Susanne enjoys conversingwith stttdellts so take the time to say Tschus (hello).· · you could tell me the name of Italy's capital? Well; it is · Roma, which is in the middle of . the boot shaped country. ·The country happens to be a . relatively new republic. It had been a monarchy until the end · of WW II, even during the thirty years of fascist rule. In 1946, at the end of WW II, a referendum took place in Italy to let the Italians decide whether they wanted to live in a democratic country or if they wanted to continue living under the Savoia monarchy. The referendum showed that Italians wanted a republic. However today it is strongly believed that the result of the refErendum has been falsified because there was such a small margin determining the victory of the new born republlc over the defeated monarchy. After the referendum, the royal family was exiled forever; moreover the govemp1ent refused to grant exceptions even for a native burial. From 1946 to 1983 Italy has had forty-three different govermnents, demonstrating its immaturity to live the democratic experience. The last attempts to strongly jeopardize democracy during the 70's when the terrorists stained the country's main squares with the blood of in- nocent people in the attempt to destabilize the central power of the government. This year Italy is facing another dramatic situation. Due to its friendly relations with the Middle Eastern countries as well as with the U.S., Italy has become one of the favorite places for Eastern terrorists to make their point through violent strikes. One of the reasons that Italian governments are unable to swvive is due to the difficult co- ex~~nce betvw:een twenty-two pobhcal parties. Since one party does not usually get fifty- one percent of the votes, the new governments have to be formed by the cooperation of The Italian political spectrum is complete. You ·can find ex- treme leftist parties as well as a fascist party which sits on the extreme right of parliament. In between these two extremes, you can find a complete variety of big and small parties whose political intonations vary from red (left) to white (Christian Democrats who sit in the middle) to black (right). The fact that all these representatives sit in the same parliament does not mean that they share one common ideal. Sof:lle of these people would love to have a right wing dic- tatorship, others a left wing one, and a few of them want the . democracy to remain the way it is. Italians think that their politicians only common denominator is to gain power and wealth for themselves, caring little for the bettennent of the country. For someone who is aware of all these facts, it is easier to understand why Italy is known as the country of the miracle. In the years following WW II, despite the harsh politic~! climate, Italy was able to recover from the war's wounds at an incredible speed. Today, Italy is the sixth most in- dustrialized country in U1e world even if its political system is still very complex, intricate, and slow. After all, Italy was born as a nation only in 1861 after having been owned by the Spanish and French crowns who together with the Papal State exploited the indigenous populations. In 1860, a famous statment was made: \L'italia e fatta, ora bisogna fare ~li Italiani.\ (Italy is made, now the Italians have to be made.) This quote showed that a process of unification had to begin to make all Italians feel tied together through patriotism. In the 127 years that have gorle by, much has been done to create an Italian national character. However, this development is far from complete, because Italy still needs more \real\ Italians.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, November 19, lf!87 SCIENCE. & TECHNOLOGY Profile: Physics Whiz Kid· Ends Stay at Union Can Nuclear W eap~ons ·Be Outdated? By ALAN DE .SALVIO Leaving such character By JENNIFER KOVE Science Editor Most of you probably didn't realize that since early swnM mer, Union has been harboring one of Hungary's brightest physics students. Zoltan Egyed is a 20-year~ld student of Eotvos Lorand University in Hungary. He is known for his superior ability in the math and physics field, which he has proved· by capturing second place in the Physics Olympics- a very respectable international achievement 1 Zoltan is also one of the founding fathers of the International Society of Physics Students (lAPS). So why is Union blessed with the presence of this physics pioneer? Zoltan was working at the Hungarian Center or Research Institute for Physics when he~ first befriended Union College Professor of Physics, Laszlo Baksay. Professor Baksay was instrumental in arranging for Zoltan to come to the United States. Since he has been a student at Union College, Zoltan has done research on the double-sense wire current division drift chamber. At this time he is developing computer simulations with the high pressure proportional chamber. Despite the sluggishness of the VAX he has been making progress and expects even better results· with the aid of newly purchased double-sense wire from New York City. Physics takes up the majority of the young scientist's day though he also enjoys karate, reading, and diving at the pool. If you haven't seen him around perhaps he is the quiet student who walked into your physics or Don it Just Shop ... HAVE AN EXPERIENCE ... AT THE WORLD OF SCIENCE® ASTRONOMY: Books, Pos.ters, Star Charts, Telescopes BIOLOGY: Books, microscopes, and accessories, anatomy models and charts, dissecting instruments, slidemaking kits. EARTH SCIENCE: Rocks, minerals, fossils, books, charts, posters, authentic- dinosaur bones, insects in amber, bookends, geodes,amethyst. CHEMISTRY: ~ Glassware, books, · labware charts, balances ffr.U~l.O~O~O~II PHYSICS • ELECTRONICS: ·- Vacuum pumps, books, r:!!l.. llol:l .. , -~ .rockets, magnets, ~ compasses, meters, . _;;,, ~ stop watches. 200 page catalog available- Chemistry~Biology-.-Earth Science Physics-Optics-Solar Energy Come in and Browse THE WORLD OF SCIENCE® ®®@·@;~ Biology Astronomy Nature Earth Science Physics Chemistry Crossgates Mall 120 Washington Ave.Ext. Clifton Country Mall Clifton Pork, NY 12065 (518) 371-9634 Albany, Ny 12203 (518)456-5210 S ynclironizecf Swim 'Team Come Swim Witfi 'Us Practices 'Tuesday & rr'fiursaay 8:30-10:00 fJ{g 'Ezyerience t}.[f.ctCea math class 20 minutes late on exam day and left 10 minutes later as he turned in a perfect solation set! UnfQrtunately Zoltan will not be with us for much longer. He is · going to return to his homeland around Ghrist- mastime. In Hungary, Zoltan will resmne his studies at E()tvos Lorand University and will be continuillg his research with computer simulations and detector development. He plans to complete his college edacation perhaps to someday become a particle physicist. He has already been guaranteed a position at the Hungarian Research Institute for Physics. Whatever Zoltan decided to pul:'sue, rest assured he wiU be a success. Zoltan is a unique character and his absence in the physics department wi:ll surely be felt. The B,iology Department and Biology Club present U-LRICH RUDOFSKY Director of Monoclonal Antibody Lab ''Monoclonal Antibodies'' Wednesday, December A, t987- 4:30p.m .. Room 88112 Refreshments 4:15p.m. Nobody wants nuclear war. Nobody wants war, for that matter, 'but nuclear war is espe.cially hidEous since it can cause sucll widespread damage. The fallout from a single blast is dangerous, and the explosion itself can generate a firestorm of biblical proportions; but the real danger ·lies with Global Ther- monuclear Warfare, which would release so much par· ticulate mater {dust, smoke, etc.) it mLght produce a catastrophic change in the planet's climate,- killing ffi()St everything. \J'his is· aU con- j.ecture, since only two nukes have been dr01pped on cities, but several authorities have done studies usin~ the infamous Dresden fire:storm as source material and have produced a very convLncing \nuclear winter\ .simulation. But none of this is news. If you ask anyone, anyone at all, they would tell you that they would rather live in a world without nuclear weapons, but too bad, you undecstand, nuclear weapons are- necessary. They act as a deterrent to the other guys (notjustthe ''bad\ Soviets but also th.e \?\ Chinese), keeping them from A) atM tacking us with their own nuclear weapons and B) atM tacking us with conventional weapons (or by conventional means). The first situation is described hy the lovely acronym '\Matual Assured Destruction\\ and the second is basically \11nclear first use.\ The Soviets, by the way, have identical doiCtrines. They also believe in Madness? Anyway, 11nder these nuclear use strategies both the USA.and USSR ha\Ve · accmnulated enough nuclear warheads to kill the entire population of the earth several times over, which is ludicrous. Isn't it? Why, even the sickest military mind wouldn't wrunt to kill everyone twice. Tlte reason.. both superpowers have all of these weapons bs because their leaders have been homicidal maniacs and! or are being controlled b~ psychotic military men. Right:~ observ(!tions aside, nukes are also ex:pensive. Uranium is rare, tough to mine, refine and produce ·in fissionable form. Weapons- grade plutonium is also (iifficult to procure. Deuterium for thermonuclear weapons -is expensive, as is thetrititun extensively used in fission triggers. Missiles, aircraft, ships and submarines to carry and launch . the warheads created with these materials are .in most cases much more expensive than the warheads they are carrying. Krushchev almost (did?) ban~upted the USSR in his racetocatch and pass the US in ICBMs, and the present US administration . has been spending prodigious amounts to \mo~emize\ our strategic arsenal. $ There have always been attempts at nuclear arms control. Ever since about 1947 someo11e has been trying to either reduce ·the number of nukes or eliminate them altogether. But no reductions have occurred, until now (may be), although some agreements on numbers liiil;itations have been signed. But this insane seeming nuclear environment has lasted for 42 · years without a single nuclear weapon being dropped on any<Jne in anger, validating MAD, and there·ilasn't even been a major war between the superpowers (relegating Vietnam and Korea to Minor Police Action status), validating the deterrence doctrine. So why change anything? We can safely remove our Per- shings, because they were inM stalled. in response to similar Soviet missiles, with equivalent targets (Pershings threaten Moscow, SS 20s London and Paris) and the .Soviets are promising to dismantle those.Both sets of missiles are described as destabilizing anyway. But can we safely eliminate long range nuclear weapons? Would anyone actually use them? Are the Soviets seriously ocnsi<lering attacking central Europe.? · PRE-HEALTH SOCIETY NOTICE: To: From: All Students Applying To Medical School During The Summer Of 1988 Dr. Roth, Pre-health Advisor Dr. Roth will hold an addiiional important general advising session i~ order to discuss the procedures for applying to medical school. Personal and faculty recommendations and MCAT preparation Will also be 'discussed. The biogtaphy form will be handed out for you to work on over Winter break. This is the last meeting • .A:nyone who is thinking ·of applying to medical school this summer MUST attend .. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 4:45--6:00 PM BH, ROOM 108 - h< G N (l in $J w bj f1: K a d< v n v n i< n b

CONCORDlENSlS November 19, 1987 Page 9 SCIENCE- & TECHNOLOGY Chemistry Departm·ent · Purchase.s New NMR Instrument . The chemi~try department has recently obtained a Varian Gemini-200 Superconducting Nuclear M~gnetic Resonance (NMR) Spectrometer. This instrument, which cost about $130;000' to obtain and install, was purchased with a. com- binatioiJ of internal college funds and a grant from the Keck Foundation. . The NMR spectrometer uses a large magnetic field to determine .the chemical en~ vironment of nuclei with odd nucl~ar spins; from these en- vironments, chemists can infer much information about the identity ·and structure · of a molec\Qle. The technique is becoming · increasingly im- By JIM POIRIER Tbanks to DANA internship, I was offered the chance to do resear~h in physics last sum- mer. Under the guidance of Professor Laszlo Ball:say and the assistance ·Of Marcus Drew, a visiting student from Vassar, we attempted to eX])lore the operation of particle detectors at high pressure. Our goals were first to make Union's high pressure vessel safe · and operational, then to observe the operation of several particle detectors at extremely higll pressure. Urtion's high-pressure chamber is a long, tubular vessel with an internal volume of 60 liters and the capacity of withstanding over 500 at- portant in tne elucidation of large biocheir.lieai and polymer · structures. Tile ''heart' 'd the new NMR instrument is a• spe.cial magnet, whieh is imm.ersed in a bout 50 liters of liquid•lleli:mn (a liquid with a boiling p<Jillt only four degrees abov-e absolute •.zero). Tllis cold r:na~net becomes superconducti;ng•, thereby produCing a large magnetic field. NMR d:ata obtained with such large :fields are more readily intel'])retal>le than data obtained 1Wi.th <lonvent!onal small'· field rna~ets. Dataacqt1isitio11 is perfarmed with an on-'J).(Jard · computer using a fol.U'ier-transform technique·. 'l\llis teclmique represents r-adi<:ally new technology from tllat llSe.d for an eal'lier genEration ()f NMR i:nstrUJjlents. .rcr ex:ample, we . ! A rnospheres :o-f ()ressure (7 ,350 psi.). It is curl'entlythe only set- up ofit's tyl)e ill til() world! The vessel wa:s designed as a prototype of a High-Pressure Time Projec:ti()!l chamber (A three dimensio11al particle detector). Otir objective in the Physics Department is first· to observe the bellavior of a Proportional ldllamber under ex:trernely :i:Ji;gb pressure, then observe a dC'ift chamber, ~hd then, ultiln:ately., a Time Projection Caa:m.ber (TPC). The first tas.l\ of making the vessel safe an.d .operational at high pressrue tllrn-ed out to be a . tedious an.d tirne consuming job. At .eacbJEnd. o:f the main 60 liter volume , there is a tiny \purge\ v!Jl\l.lile, 1Whicll is kept under a veil'r high vacuu.'ll. ATTENTION All Full Time Faculty Staff & Students . .. Do you like games'? Have played you ever shuffleboard on ice? fun & excitingll! ·--- -- There wm be a curling rrieeiiii!;J en· Monday. · November 23; 1987 at 7:00 p.m. in the Warm Room of .Achi11es Rink for oil thos-e intere.sted! For further information coli: Dan 'Ftidgen - 370- 6134. Give lt~a· Whirl . .. Curl Caii37D-6134 call obtain useful data in minutes on samples that would have required many hours on older instruments. The cllemistry department is very proud to add this in- stnurnerttation to our already impressive . undergraduate chemistry .facilities. Only 15 instruments .of this type are now in operation in this country and most of these are in ·industrial labs. 'These \purge\vacuums are constantly monitered while the vessel is pressurized to insure that there are no leaks to the ou:tside. My lab partner and I worked on several vacuum ptnnps and the fittings in our vacuum system in an attempt to repair our elusive leaks. _ Once we thought the vessel was safe, we proceeded to make a ttial run to 50 atmospheres. At this pressure, our \purge\ vacuum had risen from 19 rnillitorrs to 47 mT, which, .according to professor Baksay, is not a safe value. Mter spending an additional week a11d a half in search of our \'.invisible'' leaks, we attempted a11other trial run, only to find the same discouraging results. ·Research! The High Energy Physics gmup is offering an opportunity for a dedicated student to work on a project in electronics. Research or other credit may . be arranged. Contact profs. Baksay (nn N327, x6053) or Magahiz (nnN313,x6374). SWIM MEET · Union vs. Utica 1:00 • Saturday At Home ~ ~\. \Take it from me and ~l)me back. is definitely on land,\ From Sidney Har.ris' What's So Funny About Sci&nce? At this point. becoming operational at high pressure seemed lilre an impossible summer task. Then, thanks to the aquisition of an \antique\ leak detector, our goals seemed within our reach. The operational component in a leak detector is a mass spectrometer that detects the presence of helium. At this point we were able to test our vacuum system to a leak rate sensitivity of 4.9 x 10(9) cubic feet per hour .. Then, it seemed, we were ready for high pressure. This time we cautiously proceeded in in- criments of 10 atmospheres all the way to 502 atmospheres - a new record! After this giant accomplishment, besides celebrating at Friendlys, we began to make plans for in- serting the ]:)roportional chamber into the vessel. Before making this step, h.4!wever, we decided that a little rnore leak detection should be done for safety purposes. 'I'Ilis, un- fortunately, was Ule end of our progress. Just as our leak probing was abollt to com- mence, our leak dEtEctor broke down. In the span d our final week, we could not rEpair it. We are now C()ntinuing this project into the scllool year have had more peo]lle join our High Energy research group. Hopefully, we 'II be i.llserting the proportional cbarn!:Jer soon. I enjoyed my work this swnmer and found that .a lot can be learned, even if :your goals aren't reached. Critical -Car·e Managemenl Union will host its third an· nual management seminar on Managing Critical Care Units this weekend at the Albany Hilto11. The seminar is co-sponsored by Union's MBA program in health systems administration and by Ellis Hospital Critical Care Center. The senlinar program resulted from a successful 1986 Brookings Institute conference on the rationing of medical care that was organized by Union associate professor Martin Strosberg and Alan Bein, M.D., director of the critical care center at Ellis. Since then, Strosberg and Fein have organized several other local confer-ene.es, where physicians, nurse~ and health administrators llavE discussed topics such as ethi.-:aJ:..legal case studies, new tec=llll()]ogy and how to evaluate it, stress and burnout amon~ health professionals, a11d the humanistic approaeh to critical 1 care unit managerneBt. Strosberg and ·~ein are co- editors of a ne'\V book from Aspen PublishErs . entitled \Managing the Cr.itical Care Unit.\ The .. book: llas 35 con- tributors, whose fields range from medical -ethics and hospital administration to nursing practices ~nd. law and health care. tllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 1111111111111111111111 i 1111111111 Jllllllllllllllllllllll 111 PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM 1111 3 w • .. \.-~' ~l .. J •• Nov. 19 Steinmetz 113 Union College 4:30Pm \C.osm.ology and Large Numbers\ Professor Ralpl1 Alpher . ~ . . Department of Physics ,,~~~ 1 1111UIIIIIIIIIIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll11111111111111111111111111111

. i ! J '· ' ' ~ J. :i. ' ~· •I . <. Fall Term in Review: What was and what should have been Fall term is over for Concordiensis, and it•s time for a review of what was achieved and what should have been achieved. Th~ largest area for irn:provement was in student life, and we made. the largest gains there. The reality of sexual assault on this campus finally came into the open, and there has beeri substantial effort to address the problem. The college took a step toward prevention with Dr. Parrot's lecture early in the year; it should become .a more frequent lecture topic. The formation of a student group like A WARE, (see story page 6) may help -change attitudes also. The expanded student escort service does not attack the problem, but is a sign of concern and may prevent some incidents. Student Forum now shows new life, compared with early in the tenn and more so when compared with last year. Their efforts were important to the escort service, and they now have an ad ... hoc committee on campus violence (see letter this page). We should see more from them next tenn as they take their show on the road, as we suggested, and all students will get more access to them. We still have far to go. Attitudes. toward sexual differences and alcohol use have to change more if we are to avoid incidents of violence like tlfose that occurred in the recent past. But we have started; we just have to keep the pressure on. Drunken driving didn't become taboo overnight; it took· years of campaigning by tnany groups to make drunk drivers uncool and social outcasts. There i,S still much to resolve; pre-registration was again troublesome and next term will show the effects. A change in the system should be a goal for students. The curriculum ~ebate will start to settle, determining Union's c6urse for years, and Gel-Time will be tested · again--in practice by students and by a Student Forurn survey. And next term will bring the budget; we will see if Union's faculty are catching up to their peer~ and we'll see what we're getting for our money. And now that the bugs are getting worked out, the College Center may get a real name. It deserves one. Missing the Mark: Remember when we were all in high school, madly seal'ching for that perfect college. Reputation was the key deciding factor for many of us. What image did the \dream schools\ project? Most of our information came from published materials. What are prospective Union students seeing today? . Union doesn't seem to be hitting the who's who lists of quality colleges as often as it should. This week in USA Today there was an article \Colleges majoring in choosiness\ and for the second straight year, of the 43 schools ranked as \the choosiest,\ Union was nowhere to be found. To make this list, schools must accept less than 50 percent of their applicants and must have a freshman SAT average of at least 1200. We failed. 5.5 million people read USA Today. How many were in influential positions with college bound students: parents, guidance counselors, and the· students themselves? Schools that made this list are not necessarily the best schools, merely the hardest to get into. Even though they can be misleading, studies such as these are a primary source of information for prospective students. TI1is also affects our lives; when prospective employers look at our resumes, if Union doesn't look good, neither do we. Time and time again these lists appear and Union isn't on them. What can be done about this? For starters, the Admissions and Public Relations Offices have to make sure that prospectives know that Union College is one of the best colleges around. Now that the campus is physically attractive with the \Campus Center\ and the Alumni Gym renovations we can and should tighten Admissions standards· and get Union back on these influential lists. LETTERS . Confronting Sexual Violence To tile Editor: SeJ;lll!l violence is a distur,. bing is&S\le. No one v.rishes to deal with disturbing ~s11es yet our ~llc<less. in ignoring this one has 'llliowed rape anll sexual intimi~tion to flourisll. The difficlllty of prosecution and hence Jtlle lack of convictions ·· may lead to a false sen~e of the prev11len.ce of this problem. Gang ~rape and date rape are naU~nal epidemics. The statisti<ls are staggering. We are talking about y~ur little sister or best <kinking b11ddy. It 'is everyone's respoJ).SLbility as members of the commoDity to be a'il'.'are of what is happen.ing and til :stop it! Let's look.at some facts.: College women are at rU!k- demographicaUy.. Acquaint- ilnce rape bap.pens most frequently among those women between the ages-oi 15 and 24 on the first, secondovtllirddate. In a study 'which llleasurec:i the incidence of acquaintance rape, over half the WC>rneo students SW'Veyed reported experiencing sexual aggression .... verbal tluel.lts, physical coercion or violence - fro!ll sC>meone they knew. One in . t1i~llt of those survey~d }lad been raped. In another .study ()f u~s. and Candian male co)l.-~ge stndents, 35 percent repo:rtell tb~t they -might commit rapeifthey could be certain they wouldn't be caught. Rape is morally abhorrent. Let us not delulie ourselves. Vnion is not special. We are, most ,probably, no better or worse than other colleges. The fact is., degrading acts of sexual violence occ~r and are ignored here. Tile victims are not at fault. Tiley are, unfortunately, not alllne. We must open our eyes. see the disgr!:lce and stop it; We must do this at Ullion, not becall!!e it is special but. because it is olir home. · We welcome · questions or comments on this issue! Please direct them to. tbe Student Forllll't box. Sincerely~ .Ad .. .Hoc Committee on Campus Violence Casino Night Benefits Rape Crisis Center . To tlte Editor: In .tn. effort to both educate · the <:ampus about the ba~ards of aequailltance rape and raise money to help sponsortlle Rape Crisi:s Center of Schenectady, The B.rothers of Phi Gamma Delta (FIJI) held its first an- nual Casino Night on. 'October 26. Tl\r;() staff member$ from the' Rape Crisis Center were on harill t() discuss rape and its consequence onboth the. victim and society as a whole With these in· attenwmee~ Approximately :&5() tickets were sold for the '&\Vent but due to the poor combination of weather and. midterms, 250 people actually- attended. Despite the poor turnout, the total money genel\ated was far from dissapomting - C>ver $500 was raised. The proceeds fHJm the night were donated this gast Monday by David. Provost, president of Phi Gamma Delta, to Susan Budreau of the Rape Crisis Center. The Brothers. of Phi Gamma Delta would like to thank ail those who participated in helping, this worthy cause. Pat Larkin '88 Corresponding·Secretary Phi Gamma Pelta · Errors On Gen.· Ed. Article To tb~ Editor: I write to correct some errors · in yo1llr November 12 story ''Gemeral Education :Board to Matte Changes in Original Poop~al\ and to make clear ·that 1 was not jntem!awed by the reporter who wrote the story. Running my pieture with · the artiCle implies tbat I was in · fact interviewed and that i$ not the Clase. E:rrors regarding the com- poSition of the Boal\d and its stat\15 are as follows: Professor Rildk:o, not Professoi.- Burke, is the E:ngineering mernber of the Board Professor NeJ;son serves as a11 ex officio. member of the B<~ar(\ by virtue of his .position as Director of the Writing · Concordiensis will have a gen.eral meeting of the edit- erial board, current 5taff, and anyone who wants to work <> n the newspaper. winter term on Wednesday, Jan. 6 at 7:00.~p.m. in the....- · newspaper Office. Everyone welcome; editors required to attend. Look for reminder notices next term. Questions Call 370·6155 Letters to the Editor and Commentari~s do not necessarily reflect 1he . opinions of the editorial bo~ rd of Concordlensls Center and f.rQfe.ssor Hull serves as an ex officio member by virtue of his position as the senior-at-large membell'\ of the FRB; the Boartl ls oot a sut;;. ~ouneii ·of tbe MC but does make its recoJIUllendations to the AAC .. Perhapg the !llO~ .$ignificant misstatement ill the story is that the :histo;ry sequences recommended ill the AA.C plan passed in the winter term of the academic year 198&-87 \would result in the need for up to seven more history professors... \ There is simply no basis for this Statement. Thete is one ad· diti.or~al, 'but minor, error re:gar-ding · the histroy sequene~ ':J.'he AAC plan calls .for.~e,:ieptJil~OlfY: J ,and II, not . Roman HiStory l\~ntl I~. Sincerely, JQmes E. Underwood Director of · General Education 1987 YEARBOOKS ARE FOR SALE In Mrs. Marra:'s Office For $~5

' I' ' .. \I ,. 1 ' ' l •, i ,, i.i 1r t ;I I :l ;! i ., . ! 'I 11 ... 1 l ··t .. . ;I .. \ . , Page 10 CONCORDlENSIS, November 19, 1987 Fou.ntiNI 111 limon Coli~ 1877 Fall Term in Review: What was and what should have been Fall term is over for Concordiensis, and it's time for a review of what was achieved and what should have been achieved. The largest area for improvement was in student life, and we made. the largest gains there. The reality of sexual assault on this campus finally came into the open, and there has been substantial effort to address the problem. The college took a step toward prevention with Dr. Parrot's lecture early in the year; it should become a more frequent lecture topic. The formation of a student group like AWARE, (see story page 6) may help change attitudes also. The expanded student escort service does not attack the problem, but is a sign of concern and may prevent some incidents. Student Forum n<>w shows new life, compared with early in the term and more so when compared with last year. Their efforts were important to the escort service, and they now have an ad-hoc committee on campus violence (see letter this page). We should see more from them next term as they take their show on the road, as we suggested, and all students will get more access to them. We still have far to go. Attitudes toward sexual differences and alcohol use have to change more if we are to avoid incidents of violence like those that occurred in the recent past. But we have started; we just have to keep the pressure on. Drunken driving didn't become taboo overnight; it took years of campaigning by many groups to make drunk drivers uncool and social outcasts. There is still much to resolve; pre-registration was again troublesome and next term will show the effects. A change in the s-ystem should be a goal for students. The curriculum debate will start to settle, determining Union's course for years, and Gel-Time will be tested again--in practice by students and by a Student Forum survey. And next term will bring the budget; we will see if Union's faculty are catching up to their peers, and we'll see what we're getting for our money . And now that the bugs are getting worked out, the College Center may get a real name. It deserves one . Missing the Mark: Remember when we were all in high school, madly searching for that perfect college. Reputation was the key deciding fact<>r for many of us. What image did the \dream schools\ project? Most of our information came from published materials. What are prospective Union students seeing today? Union doesn't seem to be hitting the who's who lists of quality colleges as often as it should. This week in USA Today there was an article \Colleges majoring in choosiness\ and for the second straight year, of the 43 schools ranked as \the choosiest,\ Union was nowhere to be found. To make this list, schools must accept less than 50 percent of their applicants and must have a freshman SAT average of at least 1200. We failed. 5.5 million people read USA Today. How many were in influential positions with college bound students: parents, guidance counselors, and the students themselves? Schools that made this list are not necessarily the best schools, merely the hardest to get into. Even though they can be misleading, studies such as these are a primary source of information for prospective students. This also affects our lives; when prospective employers look at our resumes, if Union doesn't look good, neither do we. Time and time again these lists appear and Union isn't on them. What can be done about this? For starters, the Admissions and Public Relations Offices have to make sure that prospectives know that Union College is one of the best colleges around. Now that the campus is physically attractive with the \Campus Center\ and the Alumni Gym renovations we can and should tighten Admissions standards and get Union back on these influential lists. LETTERS Confronting Sexual Violence To the Editor: Sexual violence is a distur- bing issue. No one wishes to deal with disturbing issues yet our success in ignoring this one has allowed rape and sexual intimidation to flourish. The difficulty of prosecution and hence the lack of convictions may lead to a false sense of the prevalence .of this problem. Gang rape and date rape are national epidemics. The statistics are staggering. We are talking about your little sister or best drinking bud<ily. It 'is everyone's responsibility as members of the community ta be a ware of what .is happening and to stop it! Let's look at some facts: College women are at risk demographically. AcQ. uaint- ance rape happens most freqaently am(mg those women between the ages of 15 and 24 on the first, secend or third date. In a study which measured the incidence of acquaintance rape, over half the women students surveyed reported experiencing sexual aggression - verbal threats, physical coercion <>r violence - fr()m someone they knew. One in eight of those surveyed had been raped. ln another study ()f U.S. and Candian male college students, 35 percent reported that they might conunitrapeifthey collld be certain they wouldn't be caught. Rape is merally abhorrent. Let us not delude ourselves. Union is not spet!ial. We are, most probably, no better or worse than other C()lleges. The fact is, degrading aets of sexual violence occur and are ignored here. The victims are not at fault. They are, \lllfortunately, not alone. We must open our eyes, see the disgrace and stop it. We must do this at Union, not because it is special but because it is our home. We welcome questions or cemments on this issue! Please direct them to the Student Forum box. Sincerely, Ad-Hoc Committee on Campus Vialence Casino Night Benefits Rape Crisis Center To the Editor: In an effort to b<lth educate the campus about the hazards of acquaintance rape and raise money to help sponsor the Rape Crisis Center of Schenectady, The Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta (FIJI) held its first an- nual Casino Night on October 26. Two staff members from the Rape Crisis Center were on hand to discuss rape and its consequence on b<lth the victim and society as a whole with those in atteBdance. Approximately :150 tickets were sold for the event, but due to the poor combination <>f weather and midtenns, 250 people actually attended. Despite the poor turnout, the total money generated was far from dissa~inting - over $500 was raised. The proceeds from the night were donated this ,past Monday by David ProV{)St, president of Phi Gamma Delta, to Susan Budreau of the Rape Crisis Center. The Brothers of Phi Gamma Delta would like to thank aU those who participated in helping this Wi>lihy cause. Pat Larkin '88 Correspmuling Secretary Phi. Gamma Delta Errors On Gen. Ed. Article To the Editor: I write to correct some errors in your November 12 story \General Education Board to Make Changes in Original Proposal'' and to make clear that I was not interviewed by the reporter who wrote the story. Running my picture with the article implies that I was in fact interviewed and that is not the case. Errors regarding the com- position of the Board and its status are as follows: Professor Rudk:o, not Professor Burke, is the Engineering member of the Board. Professor Nelson serves as an ex officio member of the Board by virtue of his position as Director of the Writing Concordiensis will have a general meeting of the edit- orial board, current staff, and anyone who wants to work on the newspaper. winter term on Wednesday, Jan. 6 at 7:00.'p.m. in th~ newspaper Office. Everyone welcome; editors required to attend. Look for reminder notices next term. Questions Call 370-6155 Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Center and Professor Hull senres as an ex officio member by virtue of his position as the seBior-at-large member ()f the FRB; the Board is not a sutr cotmcil of the AAC b11t (Joes make its recommendatiO>ns to the AAC. Perhaps the most $ignificant misstatement in the st«Jry is that the llistory seque11ces recommended in the AAC plan passed in tlle winter term of the academic year 1986--87 \w<>uld result in the need for up to seven more history pr{)fessors... \ There is simply no basis for this statement. There is one ad- ditional, but minor, error regarding the histroy sequences. The AAC plan calls for Ancie.U HistOTy I and II, not Roman History I and II. Sincerely, James E. Underwood Director of General Education 1987 YEARBOO~KS ARE FOR SALE In Mrs. Marra's Office For $25

CONCQRDlENSJS; '''N'l1venvbe'f'>'''P9;·,.I987 ; ' A~age 11 ·.LETT~ERS A Different View of Dean Wood ' • . . ' • t . . . . To the Editor: ln regard to \Ode to Dean Wood, '' publishe<t in Cordiensis, November 12, 1987. I feeL that letter wa$ an tmjust accusation aimed toward David Wood, AssiStant Dean of Residence Life. · · I am the R.A. of the· lower level Fox and therefore have a better understanding of what · goes on within the· residence staff. I alSo· have Imown Dean . Wood years prior to becetming an R.A. this year. · When I transferred bere two and a half years ago, I bad many complaints~ Durmg the transition from Carnegie to Whitaker HoUse, the Residence .Life Office bad lost a h()using · sheet for transfer students. Because t was number ()ne on that li$1:, I was more than '~pissed~off\ When I found out I didn't have housing. I took the initiative and found a vacant room. 1 approached botb Dean Wood and Area CoorcUnator Jay Bebb,. then, after the necessary paperwork, got the room. That wasn't all. Once the cold weather of November set it, my room· maintained. a hot 54 degree temperatur~. Well, there was no way I wo11ld pay $14;000.00 ~o treeze. After Jilany unsuccessful' phone calls tO' the Physical Plant I decided to see Dean Wood. I sat in his office until he would see me, of course 1 didn't mind waiting in his 75· degree office. Within two hours ofthetime I left his office, there were tnree workers in>my room installing triple--trac~ ~indows, placing plastic ovel' another inaccessable window, and fixing my radiator. I no longer . could . see my brea:th in my room, I'm not trying' tD say that Dean Wood is a god, bnt he does .have many positive r\esults to people's. problems. Addressing the pt\oblems _of the lower level Fox, it must be known that Dean Wo~dhas and is still trying his be~t to. solve them, It .js true\ that tlte showers ~pewed hot scalding \WElter when toilets were flushed. 1 notified Dean Wood. as well as Ken E.elyea, of'the Phy~iealPlant, of the matter immediately. They both agreed.to look into it. After several weeks CJf 11otification without definite results, a petition was dia wn up. However, this- petiti«Jn never made it to PhysicalPlant. After · thorough discussion with Dean Wood, l decided it best to let hiin handle the matter instead of ruffling feathers at Physical Plant. As it tmned out, the scalding stopped~ Tl:le mattel\ was never ignored. Around November 2, the water tem· perature had been lowered so that scalding wouldn't cccur. Soon enough, people com· . plained about not having enough hot water. Today, November 12, we have plenty of hot water. I wonder how that happened??? Students need to .realize that complaints have to be handled through channels. This may take awhile to happen, but it will. My views on maintenance and the Physical Plant are .not of the likeness of Dean Wood, but I'm sure they;re trying. It is my belief that Dean Wood is trYing his best to make living here as pleasant as .possible. If you're unhappy abciut certain conditions, I'm sure he wouldn't mind . some constructive criticism. You will learn that you are beard much better when you talk and don't shout. In closing, I would like to ex- tend to any student the offer to spend one clay in the shoes of Dean Wood. Wake up in the morning and listen to the complaints of two thousand students. I'm willing to bet that you won't make it to your lunch break. Sincerely, Charlie Campione '88 Psi U Tournament Unfair To the Editor: Recently .Psi Upsilon spon· soredapool tournament to.raise money for cbatity. Participants paid $10.00 to enter~ ~me of the .money was used for prizes. The ~mf\inm,g. :m,q:pe~. }Vas, dbnated to · cnaFity. · · Becau8e Psi tr charged a registration fee they had an ()bligation to tbe par• ticipaats•t,rrun. the tournament in a fair .niallller. We feel that this wa~' riot done. . . . The rules of the tolll\nament stated that the teams woul4 be notified of their next match thr'ough the campus Irulil. The teams then bad 48 hours to inform Psi U who the winner of the match was. In our case, we were never notified· of any games through Ute mail. We were forced to call Fsi U to see who our next oppDnent would b~. This was only a minor annoyance. On the afternoon. of Friday, Nov. ia; I was notified by Psi U that the remaining.matebes had to be played 'that even,ing. My partner, hOwever, wasunable t<J play that evening due to a Military Ball which ·he had Planned on atte!lding for several weeks. Sinee Psi U was insistent on com:pleting the tournament that e\ening I of· · fered them £everal alter· natives. I offered to play later that evening wben my partner had returned. I suggested that I play with another .partner, or even play alone. Psi U was completely tinwillingtO· allow llS to play, forcing us to fot'feit. Psi U completely disregarded the rules that 'they set f()rth by giving us leas than 12 hours notice instead of the 48 hours to which · their rules stated we were entitled: Because of tbist .. we were cheated . out' of our chance to win the tournament. We regret having to write this letter because the tournament w~s for a good cause. However, PSiU had. a re:;ponsibility to. the partiCipants to run a fair tournament which they failed to do. Sincerely, Michael Klinglesmith '90 (with Xavier Fernandez '88, partner) Gel Time Survey Approved To the Editor: As a competitive liberal arts college, Union is cetnstantly -improving its academic polic~es in an attempt to keep up With other top institutioas. This marks the first year in which a new schedule has been im- plented - that wbiell we af• fectjonately refer to as Gel- time. The new schedule is Bn attempt to make the material easier to grasp as well as relieving the academic pressure that ac- companies the ten-w:eek trisemestei' system. This we all know. But the. question still remains: is Gel-time fulfilling its proposed objectives? There are many lle\V features to this schedule - ~me positive and, unfortullately,- some negative. · Consequently, students have voi<!ed opinions and questions on this issue. The Student From wisb:esto address these with an inf()rmal survey during registratiDn upon ollr return to winter term, Schenectady, U.S.A. It is only- fair to mention that the AAC, the Academic .Affairs Council~ has already discussed this option, and for valid reasons. has decided to hold off a formal evaluation untiL the end of the year. Yet we fe~l that cir- cumstances wai\rallt an earlier evaluation. Furthermore, we feel we can only. be11efit in using this survey to W()rk within the COLGATE UNIVERSITY ... Invites You To Consider A Career In. Teaching· Colgate University offers the Masters of Arts in Teaching degree to liberal ·arts graduates interested in teaching high school science, mathematics, English, and social studies. Generous nnancial aid is available ro qualified students. For more information write to.: George E. DeBoer; Chai.rpe·rson, Department . of Educatiol), golgate University, Hamilton, NY . 13346/Phone: (315) 824-1000: .. ~ .. guidelines of Gel-time to im· prove the system, i.e., to deal with unforseen .probLems, or problems that vary from term to term. Therefore, we urge students to take a few moments during registration, tQ fill\ out the survey, S<> that we may obtain useful data with which we can suggest appropriate proposals to the AAC. Respectfully submitted, Aaron Carrell Vice President, Academic Affairs- Student Forum All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-s paced and submitted by 4 p.tn. eactl . Tuesday· before publication .. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and · all writers should provide their addresses and · phone numbers for verification of the letter. Nam~s normally will not be wit held. Concordia nsis reserves tile right to ·reject letters that are libelous or do not conform · to standard of good ·taste. A Fond Farewell To the students, faculty ·and staff of Union College: It is difficult to say good:.bye to Union College. I have spent ahnost seven years yere. This has aeen a wonderful working enviromnent and I've developed many special relationships. I've learned a lot from all of you, and I hope I've helped to make Union a better place. I will be leaving, Union in Dec~mber to 'take a position in Washington, DC with the Natiot.u~l Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU ). As Director for Financial Aid Policy,· I will be involved in the fight for student aid donars on the national level. Union has CJffered me the professional growth opportunities to make this move possible. Good luck to you all and thank you for making my tenure here so special. Peace, Ellen Fi'ishberg . Forum Addresses Preregistration To the Editor: A few concerned students have asked the Student Forwn to address several Preregistration ·problems. The F,orum· believes that the student's concerns a.re valid; however, we would like to see students take some initiative in finding an equitable solution to the problems. .. The Registrar's Task Force has been seeking two students (one junior and one senior) to investigate ways of improving · preregistration procedures. The Forum . posted .several signs, ran ads in Concordiensis and held information sessions, but, as of our 11·12-87 meeting NO ONE had applied or even shOwn .any interest. The Student Forum is cond cerneti with issues on campus that concern students. We have office hours Mon.· Thurs. 12-4 for students; our agenda for the coming meeting and a story aboutour pr~vious meeting. is in CoJlC(Il'dieJISi!:l each week, and our meetings . our open. if students have concerns there are many avenues of redress and the Forum Will take action. Some particulal\ issues brougfut to the F'orwn's at- tention on 11·12 were: 1) Elective courses were often dosed to the class of '88 and '89 when they were freshmen and sophomores. Now the 1·-egistrar has said that current freshmen and sophomores (class of '90 and '91) have priority for any in- troductory courses. Thus, current juniors and seniors have been closed out twice, and they may never be able to take these colirses of interest to them. 2.) ·.Science and engineering majors have a difficult time scheduling electivesdue to rigid class and lab requirements. When the students in these majors are closed out of.classes they often do not have the O(r portunityto take the courses the following term because either the courses are not offered then, or required major courses are offered only once a year. If these issues, or any other Preregistration issues concern you do something to change the system. Given the opportunity to gripe, everyone has a per· sonal story of how they were \screwed\ but people are lackadaisical about taking action. If the issue is your concern, then you can join the Registrar's Task Force, visit Forum representaties during office hours, come to open Student Forum meetings or call your representative or anyone on the forum any time. We will be responsive to your concerns, but you must show that they are concerns by sho~g tnat you care. In any event, the Forum realizes that students are having real problems with Preregistration and we would like to do something about them; however, because it is ninth week, the Forum simply would not be able to take any action until next term. Be assuredthat the Forum does plan to investigate this matter further next term. Colleen Adinolfi Senior Representative UNION COLLEGE STUDENT FORUM AGENDA FOR THURSDAY NOVEMBER 19TH MEETING #7 . I. Committee Reports: a)Academic Affairs Council b)Committee on Committees c)Finance Commitee d)Student Affairs Council e)lnter Fraterni-ty Council f~Pan Hellenic g)Trustees II. Ad-Hoc Commitee Reports: a) Security Commitee b)Committee on Sexual Aggression · c) Gel-Time Ill. Old Business: a)Campus Attorney b)Gei-Time c)Grounds Liason Committee d)Discussion of Pre-registration IV. New Business Student Forum on the Road.

CONCORDIENSJS, No11ernber 19, 1987 Page 11 LETTERS A Different View of Dean Wood To the Editor: In regard to \Ode to Dean Wood,\ published in Cordiensis, November 12, 1987. I feel that letter was an unjust accusation aimed toward David Wood, Assistant Dean of Residence Life. I am the R.A. of the lower level Fox and therefore have a better understanding of what goes on within the residence staff. I also have known Dean Wood years prior to becoming an R.A. this year. When I transferred here two and a ha'lf years ago, I had many complaints. During the transition from Carnegie to Whitaker Hou.se, the Residence Life Office had lost a housing sheet for transfer students. Because I was number one on that list, I was more than \pissed-off\ when I found out I didn't have housing. I took the initiative and found a vacant room. I approached both Dean Wood and Area Coordipator Jay Bebb, then, after the necessary paperwork, got the room. That wasn't all. Once the cold weather of November set it, my room maintained a hot 54 degree temperature. Well, there was no way I would pay $14,000.00 to freeze. After many unsuccessful phone calls to the Physical Plant I decided to see Dean Wood. I sat in his office until he would see me, of co1:1rse I didn't mind waiting in his 75- degree office. Within two hours of the time I left his office, there were three workers in my room installing triple-track windows, placing plastic over another inaccessable window, and fixing my radiator. I no longer could see my breath in my room. I'm not trying to say that Dean Wood is a god, but he does have many positive results to people's problems. Addressing the problems of the lower level Fox, it must be known that Dean Wood has and is still trying his best to solve them. It is true that the showers spewed hot scalding water when toilets were flushed. I notified Dean Wood as well as Ken Relyea, of the Physical Plant, of the matter immediately. They both agreed to look into it. After several weeks of notification without definite results, a petition was drawn up. However, this petition never made it to Physical Plant. After thorough discussion with Dean Wood, I decided it best to let him handle the matter instead of ruffling feathers at Physical Plant. As it turned out, the scalding stopped. The matter was never ignored. Aro1:1nd November 2, the water tem· perature had been lowered so that scalding wouldn't occur. Soon enough, people com· plained about not having enough h()t water. Today, November 12, we have plenty of hot water. I wonder how that happened??~ Students need to rea1ize that complaints have to be handled through channels. This may take awhile to happen, but .it will. My views on marntenance and the Physical Plant are not of the likeness of Dean Wood, but I'm sure they're trying. It is my belief that Dean Wood is trying his best to make living here as pleasant as possible. If you're unhappy about certain conditions, l'm sure he wouldn't mind some constructive criticism. You will learn that you are heard much better when yoa talk and don't shout. In closing, I would like to ex- tend to any student the offer to spend one day in the shoes of Dean Wood. Wake up in the morning and listen to the complaints of two thousand students. I'm willing to bet that you won't make it to your lunch break. Sincerely, Charlie Campione '88 Psi U Tournament Unfair To the Editor: Recently Psi Upsilon spon- sored a pool tournament to raise money for charity. Participants paid $10.00 to enter. Some of the money was used for prizes. The remaining money was donated to charity. Because Psi U charged a registration fee they had an obligation to the par- ticipantsto rWl the tournament in a fair manner. We feel that this was not done. The rules of the tournament stated that the teams would be notified of their next match through the campus mail. The teams then had 48 hours to inform Psi U who the winner of the match was. In olll' case, we were never notified of any games through the mail. We were forced to call Psi U to see who our next opponent would be. This was only a minor annoyance. On the afternoon of Friday, Nov. 13, I was notified by Psi U that the remaining-matches had to be played that evening. My partner, however, was unable to play that evening due to a Military Ball which he had planned on attending for several weeks. Since Psi U was insistent on completing the tournament that evening I of- fered them several alter- natives. I offered to play later that evening when my partner had returned. I suggested that I play with another partner, or even play alone. Psi U was completely unwilling to allow us to play, fDrcing us to forfeit. Psi U completely disregarded the rules that they set forth by giving as less than 12 hours notice instead of the 48 hours to which their rules stated we were entitled. Because of this, we were cheated out of our chance to win the tournament. We regret having to write this letter because the tournament was for a good cause. However, Psi U had a responsibility to the participants to run a fair tournament which they failed to do. Sincerely, Michael Klinglesmith '90 (with Xavier Fernandez '88, partner) Gel Time Survey Approved To the Editor: As a competitive liberal arts college, Union is constantly improving its academic policies in an attempt to keep up with other top institutions. This marks the first year in which a new schedule has been im· plented • that which we af- fectionately refer to as Gel· time. The new schedule is an attempt to make the material easier to grasp as well as relieving the academic pressure that ac- companies the ten-week trisemester system. This we all know. But the question still remains: is Gel-time fulfilling its proposed objectives? There are many new features to this schedule · some positive and, unfortunately, some negative. Consequently, students have voiced opinions and questions on this issue. The Student From wishes to address these with an informal survey during registration upon our return to winter term, Schenectady, U.S.A. It is only fair to mention that the AAC, the Academic Affairs Council, has already discussed this option, and for valid reasons, has decided to hold off a formal evaluation until the end of the year. Yet we feel that cir- cumstances warrant an earlier evaluation. Furthermore, we feel we can only benefit in using this survey to work within the COLGATE UNIVERSITY .. .Invites You To Consider A Career In Teaching Colgate University offers the Masters of Arts in Teaching degree to liberal arts graduates interested in teaching high school science, mathematics, English, and social studies. Generous financial aid is available to qualified students. For more information write to: George E. DeBoer, Chairperson, Department of Education, Colgate University, Hamilton, NY 13346/Phone: (315) 824-1000. guidelines of Gel-time to rrn· prove the system, i.e., to deal with unforseen problems, or problems that vary from term to term. Therefore, we urge students to take a few moments during registration, to fill , out the survey, so that we may obtain useful data with which we can suggest appropriate proposals to the AAC. Respectfully submitted, Aaron Carrell Vice President, Academic Affairs- Student Forum All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be .signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide the~ addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject lettt.'lrs that are libelous or do not conform · to standard of good taste. A Fond Farewell To the students, faculty ·and staff of Union College: It is difficult to say good-bye to Union CoNege. I have spent almost seven years yere. This has been a wonderful working environment and I've developed many special relati<mships. I've learned a lot from all of you, and I hope I've helped to make Union a better place. I will be leaving. Union in December to take a position In Washington, DC with the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities ( NAICU). As Director for Financial Aid PoUcy, I will be involved in the fight for student aid dollars on the national level. Union has offered me the professional growth oppertunities to make tl:Iis move possible. Good luck to you all and thank you for making my tenure here so special. Pea<!e, Ellen Frishberg Forum Addresses Preregistration To the Editor: A few concerned students have asked the Student Forum to address several Preregistration problems. The For-urn believes that the student's concerns are valid; however, we would like to see students take some initiative in finding an equitable solution to the problems. The Registrar's Task Force has been seeking two students (one junior and one senior) to investigate ways of improving preregistration procedures. The Forum posted several signs, ran ads ill Concordiensis and held information sessions, but, as of our 11-12-87 meeting NO ONE had applied or even shown any interest. The Student Forum is con· cerned with issues on campus that concern students. We have office hours Mon.-Thurs. 12-4 for students; our agenda for the coming meeting and a story about our previous meeting is in Concordiensis each week, and our meetings our open. if students have concerns there are many avenues of redress and the Forum will take action. Some particular issues brought to the Forum's at- tention on 11-12 were: 1) Elective courses were often closed to the class of '88 and '89 when they were freshmen and sophomores. Now the registrar has said that current freshmen and sophomores (class of '90 and '91) have priority for any in- troductory courses. Thus, current juniors and seniors have been closed out twice, and they may never be able to take these courses of interest i() them. 2) Science and engineerin~ majors have a difficult time scheduling electives due to rigid. class and lab requirements. When the students in these majors are closed out of classes they often do not have the ()p- portunity to take the courses the following term because either the courses are not offered then, or required major courses are offered only once a year. If these issues, or any other Preregistration issues concern you do something to chamge tile system. Given the opportunity to gripe, everyone has a per- sonal story of how they were \screwed'' but people are lackadaisical a bout taking action. If the issue is your concern, then you can join the Registrar's Task Force, visit Forum representaties during office hoUl's, come to open Student Forum m~tings or call your representative or anyonE on the forum any time. We will be responsive to your concerns,. but you must show that they are concerns by showing tllat you care. In any event, the Forwn realizes that students are having real problems with Preregistration and we would like to do something about them; however, because it is ninth week, the Forum simply would not be able to take any action until next term. Be assuredthat the Forum does plan to investigate this matter' further next term. Colleen Adinolfi Senior Representative UNION COLLEGE STUDENT FORUM AGENDA FOR THURSDAY NOVEMBER 19TH MEETING #7 I. Committee Reports: a)Academic Affairs Counci I b )Committee on Committees c)Finance Commitee d)Student Affairs Council e)lnter Fraternity Council f)Pan Hellenic g)Trustees ll Ad-Hoc Commitee Reports: a) Security Commitee b)Committee on Sexual Aggression c} Gel-Time Ill. Old Business: a)Campus Attorney b)Gei-Time c)Grounds Liason Committee d)Discussion o.f Pre-registration IV. New Business Student Forum on the Road. ' I

Page 12 CONCORDIENS!S, November 19, 198'7 ARTS & FILMS Rush Soars ,at r·he R.P.I Field.house By TONY SOT'rlL~ Thursday night's mck concert fEatured Rush and The McAuley Schenker Group at the RPI Fieldhouse. The McAuley Schenker Group :11rovided an overabundance of stale heavy metal riffs that ,iiJduced a sleepy state over the ·entire audience. This group proved that five men with in- sturments do not necessarily constitute a band. This group should adopt the name Loud- ness; unfortunately, the name is taken. The Schenker group w.ras so distant from the Rush musicalconcept that they might as well have been playing at the Clens Falls Civic Center. The Canadian band Rush boasts three incredible talents: Geddy Lee (bass guitar, vocals, synthesizer, bass pedal syn· thesizer), Alex Lifeson (electric and acoustic guitars, bass pedal synthesizer) and Neil Peart (drums and percussion). These men have managEd to syn- thesize orchestrated rock and ron music and pure thought like no other band in existence. Neil Peart's background {including a master's degree in English), has allowed him to write creative, insightful and prophetic lyrics~ the im· !)ortance of which may never .be fully realized. Peart's drum- mirig is unsurpassed. Like the jet pilot who approaches a state whereby HE is flying rather than · flying an airplane, Neil Peart has become one with his· drumset. Both Geddy Lee and Alex: Ufeson are masters of their instruments, complementing each other so well and having such a broad range of playing styles, the addition of another guitarist would be SUllerflll()US. The Rush sound filled the entire field house. ThEii' im- plementation of time and space concepts bordered on phJISlcal mastery. In contrast, The McAuley Schenker GrGliP t<Juld have brought a large r~diu on stage without compmJDi::~ing their sound. Bush opened the conc-ed 'fith \Big Money,\ one of their latest creations. They proce't!de<l to integrate both new a!ld old Rush, rendering classics such as ''Closer to the IIEart,\ ''Limelight'' and \Torn Sawyer.\ Their newet:m.aterial included \Time Starlds Still\ and \Big Bang,\ son~s fu:rther illustrating that Rus1l has continued to devel()Jp their creative touch. Tne Encore included \The Temple~ of Syrinx\ and \Overture: two £ongs amidst a host '()f many which have elevated ll\Ulh to legendary status. The stage setup aDd SIJecial effects were tastefnll5' or- chestrated as well. The ~rld did n()t attempt to hide :behind cluttered stage· props; they carne anned only witlll their guitars, a keyboe~rtl, syn- thesizer and a drum SEt. lis for the light show, Rw;h utilized laser and convention!tl 1i~hting to create an atmospllere that nearly hypnotized 'tile cr<Jwd. Many groups drown their music with lasers and e:XJlllosions; such technically brilliant displays should be resel'·\led for the Hayden Planetari.UJJL The timeless lyrf(:s and brilliantly compo~ed. music have .truly inspirEd Rush listeners. Rush wi11111l.d()ul>tedly continue on their pre~nt course as long as they hold ()TI to the dream. ARTS HAPPENINGS The Birds ... Thurs-Sat Nov. 19-21 8p.m. at the Nott Memorial Movie \Tin Men'' ..• Fri-Sun 7 ,9and 11 in The Colle~e Center Avd. Ticket $1 Union College Chamber Concert • Nov .2. at 3p.m. in Memorial Chapel • • Sp,vro Gyra at Palace ••. Fri. Dec. 4 at 8p.m. Tickets 11.50 and 13.50 call 465-4663 ' Vnion Co[fege • Cliamber Orcliestra *Concert* Sunaay 3:00 to 4:00 Memoria[ Cliape[ free admission Faculty ;B:ibliography The F~culty Bibliography Gro.up is preparing the next edition of the Union College FaclJity .Bibliography. This publication will include wo.rks published, performed and exhi- bited by Union College Faculty during tile period September 1, 1985 to August 31, 1987. Faclllty members who have not ~et submitted copies of the-ir .publications to the Group are asked to submit them to lngricla Dambergs or Ellen fladger at Schaffer Library as soon as possible. Electronic Music Concert 'This Sunday at 5p.m., in Room 215 of the Arts · Building will see a concert of pieces by students in Arts 43,. Composition With Tape. The·concert promises to be· lively and bizarre, wiih live performances on ·electric guitar, keysoards, drums, and voice, intermingling with tapes of the Electronic Music Studio's arsenal of sonar gadgets, as well as live performances on synthesizers, drum machines, and voice processors. Sunday at 5! Make sure you come! Oxfam .Amenca Demonstrate your concern forthe:world's hungry. Skip a meal, or fast for a day, and donate your food money to Oxfam America to fund self ... help projects and disaster relief in the Third World. Hunger and poverty are not inevitable. Together, we can make a difference. 573 students are giving .up 681 meals for the Oxfarn Fast, Thursday, November 19ltl. VolJ can sti II join In ths Fast by contributing cash donaUcns at ltle Skellar or the Dutch Hollow Res~urailt on the 19th~ Checks should be made out to Oxfam America. - :;;: . . ·'F . . * * * * * *ANOTHER * WRUC RECORD . . * REVIEW: * . ( . THE PROCLAIMERS This is.aStory Chrysalis Records - By BOB GOLDSTEIN The vocals on The Prodaimers' debut album mix so wellthat you might think that the two vocal line£ are done by one person, but the truth is that the Scettish duo are., in fact, a pair of twins. They resemble Billy Bragg in their acoustic sound and p~litically angry lyrlcs, and the Everly Br~thers in their vocal har- mony. and country twang-but their \spankin' guitar .style\ and ·recent albwn release d(lte surely classify them as a new music band. The brothers started off as a punk band called Black Flag (no relation to the American band of the same name) until they turned acoustic and became The Proclaimers in 19113. Last year one of their fans sent . a Pro claimers demo to Britsh pop stars The Housernartins, who made public radio appeals to contact the band. Tbe Housemartins invited the Reid Brothers to open for them 1n their Fall '86 tout. As a , result Chrysalis signed the Proclaimer.s to a . record centract. MIDI interfacing? The ·Proclairners know nothing of the sort. In fact, on their debut albwn they do . With011t elec- 4ridty ;lltogether, II).aking music using only an acoustic guitar, acoustic 'bass, some percussive toys, aud fine vocals. arottlers Craig and Charlie Reed, as wEllasplaying - all the instruments, harmonize beautifully, creating shades of contJ;ast between each vocal .line, the bass, and ~uitar. Their interesting rhythm lill:es are ilided b.y their alliterative and naturally syncopating lyrics: \I'm just gonna havet() learn to hesitate,\ and \He's been so sad I Since you said Ius accent was bad.\ In an age of syn- thetically reprod11ced sounds, The Proclaimers are a refreshing contrast-call WRUC at 370•6151 to request them. Students .needed to work in the College Book- store. Openings for now, Winter Break, Winter and Spring Terms. Contact Eli or George. THE WRITING CJ:NTER WILL BE CLOSED AFTER MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23 (REGULAR HOURS BEGIN AGAIN IN JANUARY) WRUC THE NEW 8.97 The last Ot;le for our abreviated term. boo- hoo! In this week's episode: nothing really that amazin_g. The Smiths pop up' for the under$fo g spot with their last album. No, Band 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 g . 8,97 R.E.M. Dead 'Milkmen The C<lnnells Game Theory Soup Dragons Balancing Act Miracle Legion 10,000 Maniacs The Smiths NEW ADDS , Aztec Camera Michael Hedges Album Label Document I.R.S. Bucky Fellini Enigma Boylan Heights TVT Lolita Nation 1 Enigma Hang Ten! SIRE 3 Squares andaRoof· PMRC Surprise Surprise Surprise Roagh Trade In My Tribe Elektra Strange Ways Here We Come SIRE ADVENTURE PICKS Eager Tones ;PRO.GRAMMING NOTES Listen for Dutchnien ·basketball and hockey this weekend. · ·we finish broadcasting on Monday, November 23. until January~ But the marathon · · show with i'Fast\ Ed next weekend,. mns from · • Saturday at 8.:00 a.m. until Sunday at 8:00 p.m.· Good luck on fmals!! ' ), \ t. I i .. t l ' ,. . ~· .. ' I i ~· ': 1

:; CON~ORDlENSlS, November 19, 1987 Page 13 I'd Ra er Cuckoo Land The Arts Department's production of Aristopbanes' The Birds is drawing to a close this week, with performances on Thursday, Friday,. and Saturday at the Nott Memorial at 8 pm. Last Saturday's sold-out, Scratching-room-only perfor- mance set a multitude of beaks a-snappin' and claws a-tappiri', with audience members joining the ·cast in the final Wedding Dance. We are urged to attend in bird-costume, and to be ready to participate with birdcalls.- Who IS Miss Universe, and where did they get that outrageous motorcycle on which the hero, Pisthetairos, roars away with her? Far from the formalized and remote ·effect one might expect fmm a 2400-year-old play, The Birds in this production is of the moment and for all time. Wacky,. surreal, moving, and hysterically· funny, this show (directed by Barry Smith, with sets by Charles Steckler, lights by John Miller, and m11sic by Tom Ross) has ARRIVED - don't miss it! The Idol By JIM MACLAUGHLIN Arts Editor HIDING OUT Starring JonCryer RatedPG-13 .At Crossroads and Moahwk Mall Cinemas As many faithful film fans know, the \High School\ movie is both one of the mast populous and overdone genres around, (ex:cept for maybe \slice and dice\ flicks). Thus, when yet another comes out concerning the very subject of, \pubescent education in a semi-humorous manner,\ it is met with, (and indeed it should be), a fair amount of groaning skepticism. Hiding Out meets the cynics apathy with a little imagination, but sadly that is all it delivers. The basic premise of Hiding Out is to place Jon Cryer in a high school setting; and have some funny events hapnen to b:im. Cryer, who was worth - ? ART'S & FILMS Jim ~nd Buddy at the Movies remembering as Ducky i.n Pretty in Pink, plays one of three stockbrokers who are tabbed as government wi:t· nesses against a mobster. 1'he Mob puts out a \hit\ on them, C!nd after the FBI fouls-uiJ, Cryer is forced to take refugE. After shaving his beard· a11d streaking his hair, he attempts to lay low in a small town high school. Unfortunately, that very portion is the most origin.al thinking that can be found in:. Hiding Out, as the rest is standard \High School\ movie fare. Once the plot is set, the fibn becomes tame and predictable. There are the usual scenes; of jocks, nerds, Driver-Ed, datirl.g~ ect. .. , and what high scboo! movie ·would be complete without a hotly contestEd election for Senior Class President. Cryer's characte~r gets to show-off his CornEll degree a few times and, of course, gets involved in a stic:ky situation with a nice girl. One fo1111y :moment does occur in a cia~s:room in whicll a right-wing pEtla~Ggue tears apart a stulient~s paper on Richard ~fi~o11, staunchly defending the former- President. But the rest of tlle movie doesn't offer amyrnl)re of that good comedy, stlcldJtg to that which is safe nldrnarketable. Cr::yer tries ha<d to make a good movie of it all, (which is a drniral>le because it is his \ vEJ:licle\ ) , but the lame 'S.cript~;Vriting drags him down. !his: character of the money :rnu[Jgry stockbroker is highly ,()off,ensive, leaving little sym- 1r-athy in the hearts. o.f thE arldience. Are we to thlllk.lt fan:ny when he rnns from a bit· t:1am carrying his client book 'lii.k ea football? I t:bink not. 'E-liding Out dissappoints in t:hat it displayed a few flashes rof brilliance, but that alone is 1101 emugh to last through a t:vro-hour movie. Better to save the $5 cinema cost, and instead, r-e11t the film on video for a buck or wo. FILM GRADE C. INTERESTED IN Writing for .9Lrts? is now accepting poetry, artwork, anc;l short stories. We will be accepting submissions all of Fall Term. Send original pieces to: Joy Cybul, Box 542 +he Qir Ut\fi \ ~oes off Of\ Mond~Ay, JQ\var . PLEASE CONTACT JAN 372-1511 Ot\' JIM 346-3401 The Live Report By CHIA PET andDUMFUG The Cucumbers at QE2, Sunday November15 \ ... and we smiled the whole time.\ How could we not? These four 'cucumis sativus\ from Hoboken, New Jersey, com- monly called the Cucumbers, put on quite a show last Sunday at Albany's QE2 (the place for late night procrastination spells). The Todd Nelson Band . (a local talent) opened the festivities. Due to the purpose of college, however, we had to miss them. Our loss. The Cukes opened up with \Don't Drop the Baby,\ one of the emphasized cuts on their latest self titled release on Profile Records. And from there the fun never ceased. The husband-wife combination of Deena Shoshkes ·and John Fried obviously are the mainforee behind the band, sharing the vocal and guitar work, but bassist/vocalist John Williams and drummer /vocalist Yeurgen Renner proved themselves invaluable as the ensemble jammed out some of the fun- niest \cinch. you'll ever find. Although the band relied heavily on the material off their new record,. they· remembered many of their~ Fake Doom releases which did · well on -college radio. Included. in these were \Who betrayes Me\ and \Love off their Who. Betrayes Me ·And Other Happier Songs album, and ''All Shook Up,\ their only cover. {really). They also did a funny song about · another Jersey rocker. It starts out, 'I want Bruce to sleep with me, /'cause I am from New Jersey.\ The Cukes did most . of the dancing since Sunday night tends to be a small, lazy a.udienc.e. But they didq't seem to mind, since they srriiled the whole show. And we did too. Union Ch·am·ber Orchestra to Perform The Union College Chamber Orchestra will be giving it's third performance on Sunday-, November 22nd, in Memorial Chapel. Concertmaster Ed Lim will be featured as a soloist im presenting the First Movement of Mendelssohn's Violin Com· certo in E minor. Lin is .a Chemistry major and a member of the class of 1989. Tile concert will begin at 3 p.m., and will consist of selections l>y Mozart and Haydn, as well as Mendelssohn. Union professor Hilary Tann will be conducting the Chamber Orchestra, comprised of musicians from the college community. Acl- II)ission to the concert is free. Here's a holiday gift idea that'.s practical and .very affordable. . Heavyweight, 1 00°/o cotton, preshrunk, oversized Homecoming T-shirts. Available at Lamont House, Monday-Fri~ay from 8:30 a.m. -4:30p.m. for only$3 .• 00. Large and X-Large. Crossgates Mall Clnema Fri. & Sat ; .QNl.Y: 1 Hiding Out PG13 t:55, 4:20, 8:00, 1():20 12:20 2 Suspect R 1•:35, 4-:30, 6:40, 9:25 11:55 3 Baby Boom PG 1::45, 4-:25, 7:40, 1 0:25 12:35 4 Nuts R ~ :2.0. 4:10, 7:10, 10:1.0 12:30 5 Less than Zero fl j 2:55, 4:00, 7:30, 1 0:00 12:55 6 Fatal Attraction fl ~ 2:4:(), 3:45, 6:45, 9:45 12:15 7 Cinderella 1 2 :20. 4:45, 7:05 8 The Hidden R 9:11& 11:30 9 Flowers in the Attic PG1.3 1.:(10, :3:35, 6:55, 9:35 11 :45 10 Hello Again P'GI 12:8(},3:25, 6:20, 8:55 11:20 11 Running Man R i: 10, 3:50, 6:30, 9:05 11:35 12 Teen Wolf II PG 12:\15 3:15, 6:25, 8:50 11 :10 13 Dirty Dancing PG12 1:2:45, 3:05, 6:35, 9:20 11:35 ~~ ~ '·

.Fage 14 CONCORDIENSIS, No.vember 19, 1987 Computer Services Hours during Thanksgiving The VAX Cluster will be • available 24 hours a day. The Rainbow Room and . .. :On Mqn., Nov. 30, the office of Computet Services will ·begin regular intersession hours Output is also available 24 the Graphics Lab have 24 hours a day from the Express · hour availability as well. . Mon.-Fri. 8:30-q:OO .p .. ni room facility. '* •••••••••·•••••••••••·••••••••••••••••e•••••·•·•••••••·••••••••• i The Idol **. ·~ Out Late Studying or Visiting i * * : This Wee],? Remember . . . : * is now accepting poetry, artwork, !lild short stories. * • · • ** We will be acceptl' ng_ 8 _. ubm 1 · 881 ·ons * ! The Student Escort Service is : * all of Fall Term. ~- E Available. i i · Send orioinal p. ieces to: : ~ 8 p.m.-1 a.ni. S.- Th. a11d 8 p.m. - ; * bA * . . '• • . ; * Joy Cybul, Box 542 :: ~ . . . 2 a.m. F.-Sat. . : *~-===P=L=E=._=A~S~E~S~U=P=-=P=O=R=T=_.==~L~L~~j CAREER THE ADVE:RTISERS .OPPORTUNITIES IN .·_ co··--·--N·_··c···--o·_ -,·RD\'·_.·-1-·E- NS ..... IS . $s.ootHr.·startins 1., wage ... depending upt>n · I!::::::S:::5:3:!1 ovoilabili1y & experience. · Jhe Hair Studio --- ----- --- --- -- -- -- -. $~29 .95 : for full set of sculptured I I nails with this coupon $10.00 Off any Nail • Se·rvice (except manicures) • --~---------------~ • A good place to start ... no experience nec- essary. • Professional approach to training ... to help you improve. • Flexible scheduling .. .leoving you time for fun. • Meal discounts ... for money in your pocket. Hair and Tanntn'g. Studio • Stylish uniforms.· •. to make you feel & look good. · · a Hospitality professionals are encouraged to apply. Unisex. Walk-Ins Welcome TANNING, SILK WRAPPING; MANICURES Student discount $5.00 off Hair SerVices all year!!! You'be be surpised at the opportunities . a.vailable at Wendy's! Please contact store that you seek employment. Callmur Manager between 2·& 7 P.M. 132 Erie Blvd., Sch'tly 374-3095 13JSc0entral Ate., Albany 459-4700 74111ew Loudon Rd., Lat~am 785·4700 3 fllift11rl Countrj Rd., CliftGn Pk. 311·4100 Tanning Spe.cial· $29.95 for 1, month Unli,mitad vlsit·s.· · '=-.\ • . _.,:,..., -\· 374-0351 - . B57 Nqtt St. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING. MIF Summer & career ()ppurtunities (will train). excelleilt pay plus world travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Carribbean, etc .. 206-736·0775 Ext. 354F DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1517 Van Vra11ken Ave 374~5193 DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING· The Typing Center 1409 Curry Road Resumes - Papers - Theses . - Cover Letters - Persoii.alized Sta.tio.nery Call £or appoint.ment 355-3681 :REASONABLE. RATES three-year and ·- .two-year schohirship_s wotit make coHege easier. Just easier to pay for. Even if you didn't start college on a scholarship, you could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRI\JNINC CORPS Classes for Army ROTC are now conducted at the Washington Avenue Armory in Schenectady, New York - fifteen minutes from the Union campus •. / For more information contact: Captain Russell Rosati at 783~2571 I / r 1 ,, ... •

CONCORDIENSlS., Novemb£r 19, 1987 Page 4.5 and Administration. Flor more · . information, contact tile CDC. offered at the Institute of Clinical training and Besearch of The Devereux: Foundation, a . SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS SteppenwoU Theatre Com- ,· pany offers intern:ships in -- ........ -----~-- theatre productto11 and ad- . • ,group of multidisciplinary residential and day treatment- spechll education and ministration to individuals • rehabilitation cente.rs in The Bellnont High School, a private boys' pr~eparatory school is offering a September- to-June immersion . for any student :anticipating their Bachelor's degree by June 1983. The school is especially in- terested. in candidates well prepared in English, Studio Art, History, or Mathematics. Fot: more information, contact the CDC. Research Scholarships are now being offered at the National University Df Singapore for any outstanding university .graduates who are interested in doing research which woUld lead. to a master's or doctor's degree in vario\18 discipline!!. For more in- formation, contact the CDC. The California. State Senate Fellowship Program is offering 12 college graduates the op- . port\Ulity to become Senate ~ Staff members for one year. Interested students should contact the CDC for additional information~ Smith CoDege is once again offering its annual summer .intern-teaching program .. They seek liberal arts college graduates who are preparing for a career in elementary or secondary. school education. More infonnation is available upon request at the CDC. The National And11bon Society is sponsoriqg internsllip positions at Aullwood Audubon Center and Farm, located near: Dayton, Ohio. students would · preparing . for a career in the theatre. The interns:hips give participant~ college credit and the opportuni~y t() · exercise prod11ction and ma:nag¢mell1 ' skills while working with with the nation's most · acclaimed · ensemble theatre eompanr~ More information c~n be fou.nd at the (.'DC. Tile Empire Statie )nEtitute . for 1be J»erforming Attlli .. (ESIPA), located ih Albany, · N.Y., has incotpol\ated an ill~ · ternship program · where students can learn more abo11t the Theatre. Activities involve crew work, classwork, in· dividual instruetion, per. fonnance, group activities, alld residencies. Mare informatbn concerning the spec(fics of this program. is available at the CDC. The Epftepsy Foodatioo. of America sponsors various research grants and stude11t fellowships each year. For more informatio11 on these . programs consult tbe Financial · Aid bulletin board, first floor · · Becker Hall. Advanced . undergraduates and graduating seniors are invited to apply for th!e · Pr~professional Researc:b- Professional Aide 'l'raineeships be involved in all aspects of 1 varied educational programs and should -have intentions in pursuing a care~r in en- vironmental educational or .a related field. For more in~ forn'la~ion, contact the CDC. mM of ~lbany will l.le hiring. 6-8 college students in. theil' junior year to fill the part time position o( a Marketing Support AssiStant. Students should have strong J;l ;C. skills, and be in- terested in the business ·side of computers. For more in· ·formation, and IBM qualifications, contact the CDC. DEER Deer Run Resort, located in Stamford, N.Y. is offering any qualified student the position ~.of Area Desk Supervisor. This entry-level management position would involve several - management and bll$iness orientated skills. Interested students should contact the CDC for more in- formation. · suburban Philadelphia. The Devereux PA Branch is iilC• credited by the APA for Predoctoral Internships in Clinical and Co11nseling Psychology, and as a sponsor of .continuing education in psychology. Contact CDC. The B11siness and Professional Women's Clubs of New York State, Inc. annually offers several fellowships .of $1,000 ead1 fDr one academic , yeat to women who are .graduate ·stUdents in colleges and universities. Candidates must be residents of New York State, U.S. citizens, tlold a bachelor's degree, be . registered full-time, and be within two years. of completing study in an advanced graduate , program in New York State. • Qualified candidates should submit a brief resume with a request for an application to: • Katherine E. Boland, Chair, 11 Lake Street, 5A, White Plains, NY 10603. Applications are available through January 31, 1988. Deadline for submission is February 28, 1988. CLUB NEWS Shearson Lehnlan Brothers, an American Express Com- pany, is offering several in- ternship programs to students who are interested in gaining some. work experience in the financial industry. More in- formation is available upon request at the CDC. HE.R (;AMES tNC.LvDE.P ,, ~a 1t s-.s- rtt-e F~ Ef.Jf 1 ' ·• N w H 'fbe NorthEast-MidWest ' - - ' PA~i\C..\P!tNT~ (Off\P£1£D TO S\Et. \JJHtl Cov.L\) B£N(}:t- -f'R ESf .A p tS T\tl:. MOSITtMES'' :Bishop' Walter F. Sulliva~ of Richmond and Mt~ Joseph J . Fahey of Manhattan College are keynote · speakers at . a November 22 workshoP: to be held at Rogel' Bacon Hall, Siena CoUege, Loudonville, from 1 .p.m. to 5 p.lll. \Militarism in Our Schools: A Chdstian Response\ .is .sponsored by • sev:eral deparj;ments of the Rvman Oath<llic Diocese of Albany, Pax. Christi and The Peace Studies Program of Siena Ccllege. Small group sessions will also ,be offered includilig one presented by Sister Loretta Cary, RDC ()f the Fordham- · NCEA Center for Education for · J-ustice and Peace. CL-ASSIFIEDS Gain EXPERIENCE and EARN mon.ey while working on · Fortune riO() C{)mpanies Marketing Programs on Campus! Flexible hollfs each week. Call 1-mo-821·15l3. Short on cash for winter term? Come to West College's · winter term meeting. Monday, November 2:3 at 8 p.m. Start ·. thinking about Spring Break now! Career Tl'ak ;88 is a College . Recruitment Conference for · graduating seniors to be.held on February 16~13 at the New York Penta Hotel in New York City. Salomon Brothers, !Barclays Ballk, Emest & Julio Gallo Winery, Connecticut Bank & Trust Co., Warnet-Lam·bert, XeroxCoJ;\P. US Spring, D' Arcy Masius B-ent\n & Bowles, Inc. are just a few of the companies who will be attending the conferenoee. Deadline for resumes is Deeember 15. Students that have been selected to attend Career Trak '88 will receive iavitations during J.anuary. For more information contact tbe CDC. The Minority Women's Network is taking a trip to the Salvation .Army on Nov. 21 at 1:3() p.m. If you are interested in coming with us ·to help out or ~ou have any clothes you would like to donate please call Tanya xCi838, Marisol. x6839 or Terry x4l77. Thank you.. TYPIS\l'S---Hundreds . weekly at home! Write: P.O. Box 17, · Clark, NJ 07066. PART TIME-Home Mailing Program! Excellent income! . Details, send self-addressed, stamped envelope, WEST, Box . 5877, Hillside, NJ 97205. Homeworkers wanted! Top pay! C.I. 121 24th Ave., N.W., .Suite 22:!, Norman, Oklahoma 73069. FREE-Trip to Daytona plus commission money. Going to Florida? Go for free. Take advantage of promoting the No. 1 Spring Break trip. If in- terested call Designers of Travell-300-453-0074. . · e. lfO'I'Jf,.U:ss,. Vf'l,mf'to\/£\) M oTtt£'R OF' TttltE.I: C,omW11£N'TED~ '' W e«E.Ifi-L S 0 'PRo\11> o·F \':7\'ACK. J:'s-r-lT rrTEKilF IC 1ftAT t+E.~S 'RE.'f'Rf'~ftJnJI(; vs 1 N 10WA A\'D W t: w ~A yr1.fS't\ tR~, 1l'ols:TehD OF ~US\ s ff\\N s .!tROVN\) IJI/ H~ W J\ Stt ll'lS\ft>rJ!j Institute, a private, non-profit policy research organization located in Washington D.C. is offering severai · internship opportunities. They are looking for ~ interns who are issue- orientated and interested in the types of 'policy decisions that guide the direction of legislation. The s~cific position titles are Human Resources and · Economic · Development, Energy! Nat~ral Resoul.\ces ~----~---- .. ~·----------~---------------------------------------------' '

Page 16 CONCORDl,'BNSlS, November 19, 1987 Sharp, clean cut and am- bitious. Does this describe y()u? 0111' compaay ha~;~ a full time opening in (JUt new local office to close telephone orders in Capital District. Earn $1,2()B monthly Dependable ve bicle neEded. Call Mr. O'Briem 756- 3191 or apply in person at 33 Main St., Ravena, N.Y. $10-$660 weekly-up mailing circulr. Rush ·Self-addrtessed stamped envelope, Dept. ANw 7CC~Fl\, 9300 Wilshire, Su:ioo 47, Beverly Hills, CA 90212. Discount air ticket :RotLnd trip Albany-Cleveland. LEave Albany 11-18 return 11·23. $149.00 or best offer. Call Vera 370-Q201. 1 Fan:lily home, 4 bedro()ms, $200 includes everythin~ near campus. 372-3565. 'Jllle Film Committee pl'esents 'l'in. Men, Fri...Sun., Nowrember 2()-22 at 7 pm, 9 pm, 11 J!Dl. The In-Laws, 'rues., November 24 at 7 pm, 9 pm, 11 pm. P$RSONALS Toithe Concordiensis E:dit()rs: · Congratulations and tllanks for a great job this term. Ge_t: · psyclled for w~ter! : !Dave & Lee Ann Merg says--Down -with management! Raise tlle. t.axes why don't 'cha? · · Japlan-Get back here quick- where you a:re is no place to party-We love yoU-,lVJ & D Good luck 011 finals. DThialyn. One more week: and we eat like there's no to.morr()W. Is ittoo early for Easter b~ead~ · Mauxa, You are the best. ne:xt door neightbor 2 \fresh \mea could ever have. We love ya- . Barb & Tricia Sylvester is hWigry. If he doesn't eat soon he'll shri\Vel up and die! Do you want that'? Nick and Link, Happy21st and 20th bilthday! Nick-you're legal onee ~gain. LovE, Hank & your fr'iends To the huggable, sque:ezabl() kissable teddy bear Jason Baternan~Thanks far letting me win the wrestling match ~ A .girl with a great right hook Fox 3rd floor south: You guys · are the greatest!! I 'If :be missing you all over break - especially in tho:~e early morning hours! ! ! Ro~mie, do I offead'? Love Elizabeth The one with the brac:es, are you frustrated? Yes. se:xually! 'Mickey P.S. My body and I miss you! Andrew, Jacket looks mighty hot on me, can I· have it fo-r kteeps? Lo'Ve, Lina BLOOM COUNTY AIVFIMAU.Yl 11 (.IJN£1.-Y CV6TlJMU?. 1 'I./atOM~/ HI. \ by Berke Breathed I lB3 ® ·CiJ cv· 5:30Am 'Roe- \ c~N~or Eeu~v.e : '{DUR StltL S\UD{IN6 f{)~ 1~ \S ftRM · }\OvJ ~ ~()\} vo t\f J jC\_\: I! •W~J 1»Z ~~~ s~ ~(fC(JNf of 5u&AR N!\! 1Vv~JC:e I 11lCCAffel~. ) R.D .-Pill really going to miss yo11! I better get tons of letters (or else ... )!· Love ya, · L.M. He:r Fella T- 1'11 miss you and all of DG. I ~ca11r't believe I'm finally gradua~ing! Now that I have my dil)loma~ I just need a jQb. Dear Mike V.H., l llo.pe you have a great Ctlristrnas break and you buy lo.is of presents for ''special\ pelJple (hint) Love, Crazy Maria and . .r, . Japan is great but l can't wait . to .get back,. I miss you guys! ' Take care and keep those let- ters eoming! Lots of love, Lorie T .A. COQS CROSSING- Illegally- I don't see the sign~ Put Y'OUr drink to your lips-Q, I love :va so qon't breakdown look at th:e list -A TroiLbh . • • Berard . . . Living conditions ·may have been.·tough, but it's been a great term. 1'11 miss you guys! Your · Do·nlla, No hard feelings. Love . otber roo:mmate. ~! . COLL To my favorite ex-roomies the MVs, Thanks .for all of the rides Ha]lp~ birthday Corny. I'll . to a11d from the airport. brftrug .the .strawberry cupcakes ' Love, Tina T'feld to managerial tomorrow, 'kayl Love you. . Hey y()u RAs from Doug's area, ---------- , You.:don't have a prayer! We'll Dear '?atti H., •(Jl:d Union won't be the same nelctterrn without you. I'll miss yo\1 - ,get excited for our last sprin.l\ term. Love. ya, Coll HteyCorny- . It's the big. 22 today. But 'WiherE':~ the 25? -Morty, M, Jimbo & HCB A particUlar professor on this . c:amJIUS is a \facetious old foolt\ ac<:ording to someone who really knows. Ha! Ha! BDFP D'slnger and Gino-need we say more? (hee bee bee). G'pa obnoxious'? Cast your vote rno;w and don't forget to buy YODR raffle ticket. '' Pe5Pc~!f'fft..Y SUKrN6 ., \ 11/filfT .'2' \ bowl you over. Love~ Sharon Amt.erson's bowling throats St~nley, 'l'llanks for dinner! Any time · yott want ro make a bet give me a call. Lvve Una · Mar.ni- You're the best lil' si~ Get prepared for a winter like D()Be other- I think I might need a shake from the Skellar Love, your big sis · Fr()m Angel to D(}vil, Try to identify yourself in the next CIJncordiensis issue. (Ruuu.rrr!) Dllde,,ya done a good job! from · Bill,. Kelley, Jared, Jim, Ed, Boob, Bruce, Karen, Rich, Alex:, · aitd the rest of the capital district's radio fans. • \ Y(JJ svRe VcAJ r:oVJ'r WANT OtY-e? To aU Delta • s le;:(;.ring U$ to fight the Schenectady winter alone- have fun-don't even th~k about being gpod-we'll miss you- Love, Dina & Missy · Mesilla ,Anne~Anot.her Saturday n~ght of en- tertainment? Thanks but I'll pass .... just joking:--it was a blast. -Love, Goldie Krochman~ The senior Kin Koch Committee has declared war - tune .in tomorrow for full details! New Kappa Sigs-Riob., Mark, Eric, Keith and Josh-- C()ngratulations in a big way- can't wait to party down with · you. brothers -A Lady and her friend To the X-C team: Greetings from Nih·on! btsuk.aresamadeshita! Love, Bob and Lorie Dave, They moved! They're · alive! Trex even took a bite out. of Brcmty's. tail. see you soon. Love, Beth LB-It was a close encounter · but we'll be w·armer · next month. Me too always, -WLT Dear Chuck E. Cheese Gang, Thanks for a great birthday. The games were great but being a pledge was the best. L()ve,Mom To Hickock House, Thanks for making my bir- thday the best. I'll miss you guys when I'm gone. Love, La uri Andrew Miller, Don't ever· forget our secret shake! Shhhh LoveLina Melissa· Have a fantastic 1u.nch! Love you-Green ·Elevator Person: Can I tell you?? Which button do you push? Do ReMiFaSolaLaLaLola!! Elevator Person ll To the illustrious Sisters, Have an awesome vacation- , Thaak God no more hazing! Just kidding! Love Pledge Lina Rich, Joe, Jeff, and Phil-Who am l going to w~tch play 'pitch' next term'? ! I'm gcing to miss you guys! Love ya, Leslie JED; Well it's that time already-have an .amazing time but be careful! No diseases ()kay!? Who istgoing to listen & laugh at all my problems? LoveLina Jed-Have a great time the .next 2 terms'(Boohoo l )-remember to keep in touch w-your floor- mates (especially your next door neighbors!) I'm going to miss you! Lvve yat Leslie Rocky, . Thanks for the rub. I'll return the favor any time, wear your new suit. The Word is Out: JJ is a party animal! 0. are you next? Karen~ I'm going to miss you! Don't swallow too much-you'll get fat. Have a great time. Write every day. Your MUN- ·cmaN Little Lina, I miss you too! And all our problems. Love ya, Cathy T.R.It's obvious ·the moon isn't blue and I don't foresee another 27.32 days. Best of luck with everything! A little girl I

CQNCORDIENSIS, November 19, 1987 Page 17 PflRSONALS David, You are so appreciated~you just don't understand. Love, Lina ' Patti- \ Don't forget to bring us back some Greek Gods! We're going to miss· you!! -G. & S. · . Hey Ceece, I love you babel! Chevi All the Smiths-especially my roomie, tbanks for everything this term. Parts were rough, and y()u were always there: Than~s again! Hav.e a great break! · --'G. Jen. Diwakar, Sweetheart, where's the ·dinner you owe me- Michael - Chad, I'll miss you guys-have an amazing time. Love , Lina Doug, I've had a terrific time. \Thanx. Have a fun winter. See you when the snow melts. -R. Screwballs-How about lunch in Siberia? · · Call me. We'll set a date. I'll bring the KGB, you bring the Geisha. Love Keith & Josh Happy.Monday birthday Penny.· ~Love, us!_ To the Harley-wanna-be's roommates, get that boy to shave, and watch out for speed bumps! See ya next year! K.K. and Rock, I'll miss you, but we aren't .through with Union yet. There is still the class of '92. See you in Athens - maybe. Love Tan ·TP I know it's been rough these last c()uple of weeks but things can only get better ~Ruffles. Pebbles and Bam-Bam I'm totally on to you guys. LoveLina K.K.-Jan 1st, starts . an amazing time. Maybe I'll borrow some of. your 3-month supply, please. -RMG To my old- friend; .The closer I get to you the more I realize that we've only just begun and just o11ce I hope you realize that l cau:'t go on WmO you. I need your body baby, always and forever! CTMA, Burger Jim~I know you take flack for these but .. .I ·had to do it anyway .... It was a .great fall term. Now for the winter - Don't get into too much trouble. Love,D Jqe, Jeff, Rich, & Phil Have an amazing time .guys- LoveLina The Crack Addict! Maura, Have an incredible 21st birthday. We love you! JM,CL ~BJ, MaryAnn, · I have missed you - (I swear). Let's do dinner again! Love Lina Nour ... (etc.) · Have a great time. Beware of that English version of Jungle . Love and let's do dinner when you get back! -Your Big Sis Spire I knew you'd eventually Go GREEK! Enjoy it.! K-K---K-Katie, We'll be saying our Thanksgiving prayers, all seven of them, for you! -MAD & RED Sulaw: Make. love not law review LA Law Wanted: 25 pages for a senior thesis. Topic of your choice. Turn into 1051 University. Reward of- fered! Stace, You have won the -prize behind door number one--a country full of eligible men! Be safe, enjoy! MAD Pledges, Don't forget your pii)s .. ovet;' break. You never know when you'll run into ... one of us! The House Ricer- Have a Merry Christmas or a Happy Hamikkah, which the case may be. -MAD .. , Lina-I guess I have to send you a personal- even though you do get (and send) more personals than anyone else! I'll miss you - call me! Your loving roomie!. Anne- A sweeter bird never sung! -MAD Michael Grauer, Better watch out .for those strange reflexes! Love Lina Dear My Friends SDT Have a blast of a break. , Love; Little Lisa Hi Advertising Staff You guys are amazing. Thanks for everything. Love, Lisa Cathy and Bonnie, Thanks for dinner - although it would .have been better.if my nanny cooked - Lo\!e Lina GRAND OPENlNG/GRAND OPENING . . '})ana'}] rjiftSfwp -403 Union Street -gifts to suit all tastes -· quali1y merchandise at reasonable price --within walking distance · from Union College -all Union College students .are welcome Monday thru Friday 9:30 arn to 6:00 pm Saturday 10 am to.5:00 pm Ken, I may have needed Robin, put look who you needed. The truth comes out. Remember it over vacation- We don't want a • ·deja vu. Love Cathy Fi---,Have a great time in : , Greece! We'Ihniss you at the • news desk! anti don't you dare write for I.J.i'.Jil Try-Schwetts-If you're having. problems being ''tight,\ try something with bananas., they'll he~p broaden you- To JKB-It 's g().ing to be no fun Steve- You better get me home SDT Pledges, It's been a great • getting QB witbollt you. in one ,piece. We're Maine- fall term looking forward to an A<li()s-Bon Voyage · bound !• -Beck amazing winter. Have a good vacation. The Sisters Spelling Bee Champ: The Romper Room will be lonely without you! Have a great time in Greece. I'll miss you. Love, the Scam Master There were 6 Gamma Phi's sitting at the bar ... Caroline, Kerry, Michele, Oksana, Maia & Karen, we hope you guys have a super term abroad. We'll be thinking of ¥OU & missing you. Love in PKE Wendy K. Congratulations for being the first pledge to spell it. Love in PKE. Tina S. Gamma Phi Beta wishes Jen and Kim, along with the entire cast of The Birds much luck with their final performances. To L.J., B.H. & C.B.-Even . though you are going to be in a · different country, one custom is still the same- Don't forget the pursuit of .plaid! Love A.E. Andy M. You are the Alfster! No problem! -HOW. Fresh- Those are some fresh fish! Maybe Lucky .will like them? -HOW AEPi Pledges- Good luck (you'll need it)! The fWl has just begun! -A Brother AEPi- Eleven is the lucky number. R.P. (Chain) YATCLBITWAIARHTHY P.S: Won the bet. Bruce-Happy birthday Buddy! -HOW Izzy-I love you. Howie Laura-I couldn't have done it without you! · Thanks for an amazing (yet peaceful) term. I love you and will miss you SO MUCH!!-Deb WANTED--S-F-P must have triangle wardrobe, like long sweatshirts with stuffing, ,enjoy bananas in various ex:ercises, and love staying late night at the zoo. Andrea, Union really does miss you, despite the amount of mail you get .. Love Mark Linds, Jul, Ris, \Hello hello again .. \ I think it's time to change ()Uf machine. Anyway, • ~ thanks f()r being great roomies. Little Jill, · · Have an awesome vacation! Hey Swe~tie-How was • Your roomie California? Yeti never filled me • · -~~-----­ in .... Lots of -1 Love, Little · Lina · Happy (early-j l>irthday to the . best leftfooted W<>men's soccer : · player-poli sci major. Love, · Scoop .--------------- 'Hey, I'll miss you lots and although I W()llldn 't be mad if you didn't comil toNI for New , Years', I thillk it would be a . fantastic memorable occasion! Michele, We'Jl :ooth get .out of here in 6 I1l()tlths with our . BSME, so de~n't W4)rry! I'll miss you next month- 3rd floor Dav:ids()n North- Thanks for heing the best floor ever!- Love TAJ Big HOW Looking fon\'iard to a great year .... Your little Bro, anything but zero. The sisters a11d pledges of · Gamma Phi BEta would like to thank all of. ()Ur guests for celebrating Fo11nQ.ers' Day with us and we ho)leyou had a blast! Jorge: \He1!> mel\ - The pineapple. WEd()n't buy the lies. Pay up or tile plant dies!! To L.J., B.H.,.& C.B.: Here's to all the go<Jcl times we've shared: From Watching'Days' to hanging-out; from Sun. night 'Food club' l() late nite talks. I'm going to JDiss all that, but most of all - I'm going to miss you. Have a Sll)ler time in Spain · & hurry back, Love, A.E. Ris, I had an awesome time with yo4-. Come visit some time. T.M. Kemo, Glad to see the stubble is growing in. s.w. Dave- 'fake a trip to VA and stop spreading rumors about you and my roonunate! -Beck Denny, You are the coolest person you know. Sheri FETCH! Find anything in- teresting iii the men's room?? ? Let's not try that again -O.K.? Rapps, If I were you, I'd be more careful when walking around a corner. You still didn't get me back. S.W. Ali, I'm sorry there were no 'Openings in Spain, but I'm glad you'll be here nex:t term! Have a great vacation. Sheri · Hope, Michele, Judh, Have an awesome time in Spain! I'm gonna miss you gusy. S.W. · Leslie, Believe me I can really do more than eat and sleep - honest! Have an amazing vacation - We'll do breakfast, lunch and dinner- LoveLina vVest College Dining Hall STUDENT WORKERS MEETING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1987 AT 8:00 PM All student, workers are asked to attend, as well as any student interested in working Winter Term. Finals week and next term schedules will be discussed. Please see a student manager if you are unable to attend.

' ·.: Page 18 CONCQRDIENSIS, Nq_vernber 19, 1987 LOST A JAC.KET, KEYS, GLASSES, .ETC? CHECK LOST & FOUND AT SEC'URlTY BEFORE LEAVING FOR WI·NTER BREAK ACTION PACKED WEEKEND OF HOCKEY FRIDAY: 11/20/87 __ -Union vs. Queens University (Kingston, Ontario) 7:30 pm Informational Meeting for Volunteers for Casino 9{jglit sponsored by Social Alternatives Co:mmittee Meeting ··will be: SATURDAY -11/21/87- Queens U. vs. Concordia University (Montreal) 2:30pm SUNDAY -11/22/87- Unionvs. Concordia University 2:30 prn Thursday, Nov. 19· - . 7:30 p.m. 4th floor lounge, Colleg·e Ctr. Tickets on Sale Now at the Achilles Rink- Box Office If you want to wor/0. !JOU ·must attena one meetingJ or ca{(~1265, ana ask,for $1.00 with Union College 1.0. Stefjani · • •• y., :· .,, ___ • •. . When;: NoV;~S&:::~::!::::::::::~:,:,.~· .. ,·.-\:····~c · .•.. ·'-·C•'\ .·\.?;>M.\i···;· ;w''·\''\\'\··l ' ... •\ .. - ., ···;~----. ·.-.-~,-·,~· ' '' ; • -.,.. ·- ,.,~·:_ .. ,. -~-· ···:-.-:\:·~- ..• ·- . ..:::- •.• , .... ·~·-'~-~·)'-!-•,· Where: The College BooksloRl ,· ·•··· .. -- . ·,- ., .• . {Colleg_e - Centerl ...... , - .. Hours: 9:30··- ,4,:00. - ~·\1 ... · 1/2 retail price f_or boOks. . . USE.D .next~ta.[m, .. ~-\-~'·\'-· H<.:\··-:··M-: ...... , .• ;;,,.bl .• ··. . .- ~' . ' . ,.:,.. . ...... -~.··. <<-~ . . . . ...... ;• · . . '-· -. ·All other book pt!iees · - · · ·· · - ··· · · .. - . -. \-- 't·~~·m·· ...•.. :a_~:n·::a·· ~~·~n~-··a·-/: .. 1. ·USE:Dffoolf···:·.·~ · · ~- · · ...• - I U - ,··a v· , . . . \··· . n·· .. , .. ,.,_ . .,.. • •... 0 , • ,, •. ·'·· ., •.• • ..• - • • ~ ,• . ,,- . ..- .-.· '·' . . . . ·c· ··o· m· -··· ··p•. ·-a· • ·-n-. 'Y··· ··• 's_:_ ·.w. ·····:-· ,h··· ...... :o· .. :. :;l:e. :,,..:s.\-- -a·:,,· ::l,e· :,':·,.:_:g.-· ·:u· ::· ·.·1·:~-e.··-~ :~ .··.· · - ·. ,, · .. · · . · • · ' •·• • •' a.... . •;\'.N·<i •• •;.\'\\•'··>Wo••••••.o.•·: · ,-,. '\•·<•\ •·'········· ,,.,, ..... ,oo\:,. ~ ; . . -· . - . .. . ' : . -· . ' -.. .;: '-- -- . ~ •\ ' . ~ /' r $

CONCORDIENSJS., November 19, .1987 . Page' l9 4-Salute to the· Football Seniors strength along with remarkable agility that a1lllws him to pull out in £ront of Sheperd on sweeps as wEll as keeping protection for his quarterback. By ALEXANDER H. GARDNER .. As a disappointing 1987 football season came to a close on Saturday against Hamilton, twelve familiar faces will no longer be wearing the Garnet uniforms that helped produce 23 victories in their three years as major contributors. . In the fall .of 1984, thiry.five htghly touted freshman came into a program that had just established itself as a national powerhouse with their 1983loss to A.11gustana in the Amos Stagg Bowl. Virtually the whple team returned for '84 campajgn, but once again the Dutchman where knocked out of the playoffs by 'tbe powerful Vikings. The 1985 season Mike Gargiulo presented Head Coach Al Bagnoli with many holes t~ fill, making it a necessity for the class ·Of '88 to be as talented on the field as they were on paper. In 1984, the freshman had led the Jl.lTiior· Varsity to an un- defeated season, but could they move up to the Varsity and keep the team in contention ·for a National Championship? Many of the thiry-five original recrlli.ts had been either frustrated by the amount of talent in the program or just could not adjust to the academic and social rigors of college life. Whatever the reason, by 1985 the thiry-five players who had started out eorge in'84 was now down in the low twentys. Was their still enough ·depth to keep the Dutchman on top? · The first whole to fill was a replacement of a Union legend. Mike Gargiulo won the starting job pre-season and would have to live up to the seemingly unreachable standards set by four year starter and All· American Dan Stewart. Gargiulo started off slowly,_ but as the team continued to win he ·gained confidence and in his first real test brought Union back from a 14-0 deficit against · Coast Guard, setting the all~ time Union single game .passing record with 351 yar¢1, tying tbe Cacu· Bright Union record of four TO passes. in a game. He finished the season with 1758 yards passing;,, anlt fifteen touchdown passe&, better statistics than lli=s legendary predecessor, as hE .finished his sophinore seaso11 the 30th ranked~, passer ill DiviSion III. Gargiulo seemed to have th.tl J•m LaFrance combination ()( speed, arm and intelligencE to enable him to break rec()rds for three years; but his j'uniorseason was cut off before it be~an as a broken foot in a scrimmage £inished his season. Although he does have a year of eligabilityr left, before co!Jl).ng back Mike will probably discuss ·!lis · futurE role with Coach Bagnoli anil find out where he stands for tile '88 season. '87 and '88 were supposed to be years where Gargiulo Ied the Dut- chman offense back to the heights it had reached his sophmore year: But through good times and bad, Gargh.tlo has stayed with the sport he loves, not letting his mouth or his ego get the better of his judgement. With the flashes of brilliance he showed in 87, highlighted by a 35 point out· burst in the second half at Coast Guard, Gargiulo, if he does stay on, gives Union one of the best pressure. passers and scram- blers in Division III. Darrell Shepherd The 1984team also graduated the top f(}ur wide recievers, so 1985 saw three soplunores, McAvoy, &right and LaFrance step int() starting roles. The three ha-d a combination ef speed, hands and guts allowing them to accumulate over 250 reception:S and over 3000yards in their ttuee years. Cecil Bright, after ex- perimentin,g at halfback his fteshmall year; moved outside to reciever for his ladder three where he eought 92 balls for 17 TO's and over 1000 yards. The four yea[\ letterman was Piz~a Tlm Valachovic Hut All-American Honorable Mention in his sopbmore year when he led the team in scoring. Jim LaFrance, an all-state ·performer in high school, for three ye:ars had been catching footballs in positions that most recievers don•t even attempt to get into, !lis courage and desire .to get th:e ball resembles a dolph~ repeatedly jumping in the a1r to eatch the all-elusive fish. His jumping ability~ hands and remarkable concentration has ~ade LaFrance the gQ guy on third down. His best season was hissophmore year when he led the team with ·550 yards on 35 catches despite missing two- and-a~haJf games. with an in- jury. In· .a sudden turn of events in his jllilior year, LaFrance was·notgetting what he felt was a fair. am'?unt. of playing time resultmg m him almost .quit- ting. But perseverence paid. off as he firlislled his career with c~ose t!J 1500 yards and 97 catches, 29 of them .coming this season, making LaFrance a candidate for post-seas~n honors. Georg~ McAvoY's precise patterns have been finding soft spots in zones for three years. The excitable native of Troy who was often getting the crowd excited with is towel waving antics, averaged over 14 yards a catch for 1106 yards in his Rich Romer career. He was never one to complain of his sometimes limited role, but his ability to block along with his soft hands has forced Bagnoli to find him playing time. In most situations only two of these three thouroughbreeds could play at a time. So at one time or another all three have had to take a back seat and swallow their egos while the others palyed. But as a group for three consecutive years, they along with Matt Smith, have been one of the most f~ared rec1evmg cores in Division III. Running back was the final skill position the Dutchman had to fill in '85. With the loss of John Johnson, Darrell Shepard who after grumbling in his first season where he played defensive back, was moved back to where he was best, tailback. In his career he has compiled just under a 5 yard average, gaining 1651 yards with 11 TD's. A captain in '87, Shepherd, who is fondly called Marc .Paguin \Jili.ce had his best season in 1986 when he recieved AP Honorable Mention, ad he gained 811 · yards. His elusiveness and cut-back ability reminds me of another number 32also knownas\Juice.\ .. · Tim Valachovic in his sophmore year was a wide reciever who, because of the terrific core in front of him, never got his chance. He could have easily remained a part time reciever, but he would make his name· throwing the ball in stead of catching it. In '86 with the second and third string quarterbacks, Jay Wood and Ed O'Day out of the picture, Valachovic, who played QB his freshman year was switched back to quar- terback. He originally was not thrilled about the move ,but Mark Staehowlal after Gargiulo's season ending injury, Valachovic suddenly had the pressure of living up to the expectations Dutchman fans had been acustomed to with GargiUlo and Stewart. Valachovic not only led the team to a 9-0 season but was selected the teams MVP as he throUgh for 1295 yards l:fld 11 TD's. Playing in seven ,~ames this season, Valachovkfinishes hi.s career with 99 completions andneatly 1500yardspassing. Defensively, the only two seniors who played Jor four years are, end Rich Rorner and linebacker Marc Paquin. Paquin earned four varsity letters in his career, as he was in over 84 tackles in hi~ three years as key participant in the linebacking core. Pagttir:t l:las been hampered by injuries this · season but his aggressive style along. with his strength had helped keep the llli!ldle of Union's defense solid. Captain Rich Romer !L,as such unbelievable statistics a!ld has won so many awards that its impossible to list them all. Romer finishes his career with .282 tackles and 42 1 /z sa!!ks both which are all-time Union records. Romer, who bas had Kevin Ramumlo twelve National Football League teams look at films of his play, was· selected last year as one of the top 25 playersin all of Division II and IlL Whether Sean McLaugh lin he continues on to the NFL or not the unassuming Romer's incredible talent, desire and leadership combine to make him one of the best players in Union football history. Leadership was also fot111d at the tight end positim. where Mark Stachowiak has com- bined, agility and pass catching ability with ferocious desire to block. Stachowiak carne in as a quarterback his freshman year Pat Cook and switched to tight .end his sohpmore year. Th.ere he quickly evolved into a protoype Union tight end as he ~as able to open holes for tlte back, capable of catching the tough ones over the middle a11d able to throw the ball on occe~.sions. A captain, Stachowiak filtishes his career with 244 yards .rer!ieving, four touchdown receptiags and one touchdown pass. The last of the twelvE seniors are the three offensive lineman, Kevin Ramundo, Sean McLaughlin and Pa:t Cook. Ram undo redshirted ia l 91l3, his initial season and ilas started ever since. Ram undo after playing tackle for tllree years showed his versatility by moving to guard this season. Ramundo is a four year letter winner, a c~ptain and a potential recipient ~f post· season honors~ McLaughlin, a tYVo year starter and three ye~r letter winner was switched fr()m linebacker to guard ~fter his freshman year. McLaughlin, who has not missed a game. in his three years as a varsity member, combine:s raw Matt Smith {1 year e llglblllty) . Sean has a year of eligility left and may be back in '88. The \sixth man\ on the of- fensive line this year has been Pat Cook. Cook who played center his freshman year, has ' three varsity letters to -his credit as an offensive guard. Despite the fact he .was never a full time playe~. his versatility, intelligence and quickness has made him an invaluable part of the line. Cook started four games this season and when he didn't start always managed to see action on the banged up offensive line. He saw action nine games this season while seeing time in a backup role previous season{i!. It is not easy to wait four years to get your chance to play. but if you really love the sport and you are committed to winning you stick with it, whether you play on Saturday or not. If all thiry-five players who where supposed to play their last game had made it through their senior season it is very possible the team record could have once more shown 9-0. Talented teams exclude talented players from their starting lineups. Many decide Craig Aaron (1 year eligibility) the sacrifice of waiting was not worth the price, but these twelve made tile committment and despite; lack of playing time, changes in position, the drudgery of f<Our pre-seasons and everyday after school practices amounUng to around 500 hours in four years, they have stuck with it and have been major contributors in the 23 wins Union ;has compiled in the last three seasons. They should all be proud of their accomplishments. Equestrians . . . Continued from p.20 home a green 6th place ribbon in the advanced W-T division. Senior Shann Panas also placed 6th in her Beg. W- T -C class. In the past two shows, the Union team has proven that size doesn't make the team and has had success 'by relying on team spirit and support; skill, and a little bit of luck. With two successful shows behind them, the Equestrian team has the potential to bring home more ribbons in the upcoming months. Their next show is 011 Saturday,. November 21. ~:~ponsored b)' RPI at Winter Glen Farms in Rotterdam, just 10 minutes from campus. The team members invite all whCJ are interested to come anll cheer them on. The Show runs from approximately 9 a.m. to fi p.m. and admission is free. Congrattllations to the team and GOod luelc at RPI! .... •

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS,. The Skating Dutchmen fall to 0-3 on the season after 3•2 loss to Babson .. · The Four Horsemen: Urdon•s d·efense S·tands tan. Nov~rnber 19, 1987 .•• Hamilton thumps Union 17-7 'Dutchmen End Season at Frustrating . · As Close As.Th_ey Com:e .500 · By LARRYROSENmAL Tom Acquaviva. Temush pulled the t\dgger at 15:41, and Union was'b~ck in the game, with thiS. By ANDREW MILLER Sports Editer The season is over. It was n()t a year to be immortalized on a commem()rative plaque. · The Dutchmen finished at an even .500 clip. They dropped five games off the last tw!> seasons' unbeaten records. The 5-S season snapped their string of two straight NCAA ap- pearances. Union's fifth loss of the season, a 17-7 downing at tbe hands of the Hamilton Colonials {6-2), summed up a frustrating season. The theme of the day was self- destruction. A combination of five turn()vers, and five sacks resulting in 66 negative yards, rendered Union's offensive attack impotent. The Datchmen were also struck down by costly and Wltimely penalties. The Dutchmen immediately banded the game reins to the Colonials. On the third play of the game, Darrell Shepherd coughed up the ball. The Colonials pounced on the bouncing pigskin, and quickly converted the turnover into a 40- yard John Knapp field goal. Down 3-41, the Union offense sputtered. \I expectad tbe . defense to come out sluggish,\ coach Al Bagnoli said, '~not the offense. 1 ' Bagnoli watched as his offensive line gave way to the Cclonial rush. The Hamilton pressure resulted in five sacks of quarterback Mike Garguilo, and forced many err!lnt p~s;. The senior signal caller had a stellar afternoon, passing f()r 223 yards. Gargulio's im· pressive stats are deceiving. Union's offense could not get on track all day. Fumbles and penalties, which have plagued Union an year, reared their ugly heads again this day. Hamilton's first touchdown drive typified Union's seaS()n woes. The Dutchmen stopped. the Colonials in their own territory, but a costly roughing- the--kicker call kept . tlte Hamilton drive alive. Union forced a third down situation around mid-field, but handed over another free first down with a facp mask fall. Hamilton quarterback Kiernan Clair took full advantage of Union's generosity and quickly hit wide receiver Fred Coleman with a 40 yard ·strike to push the Colonials lead to 1(}.(). Hamilton went up, 17·0, behind workhorse Rob Feishan ~ (138 yards). Feishan broke through the Union line and. scampered 34 yards for the third quarter score. From this point on, the Dutchmen defense controlled the game. They shut down the Colonials· for the remaining quarter and a half of footbalL This gave the Dut- chmen a cl' 11ce for a comeback. Gargulio . took control of the offense and marched the team downfield 'to the Hamilton 40. There he stepped up in the pocket, avoided the _rush, and hit Steve Hays on the fly. Ha,.ys broke to the outside and outlegged the Colonial secon· dary for Un~on's only score. With the Dutchmen defense supplying the offense with the ball the stage. was set for a Union comeback. But it. was not to be. The comeback never had any life breathed into it as Union turned over the ball three Despite a valiant eff()rt last Satbrday afternoon, the Skating Dutchmen were unable to achieve their first Win of the young season. The 3-~ loss to Babson dropped the skaters to-a record of 0 and 3, with previous losses to RPI and Elmh-a. The Dutchmen feU behind early, as Babson struck less than one minute i11to the opening stanza, Babson:'s Jim Friedman centered tbe puck to teammate Rob Berait, who qUickly put the Beavers on top. Thirte~n minutes later, Eabson went up by two goals wh~n Tim Bertscbmann put the pU()k past Union net-minder Ron Kinghorn. During tbe game, inghorn stopped 27 of Babson's 30 shots, putt!ng in a solid performance. Gary Terilush closed tile gap to one when he stole the puck at the blue line and broke in all alone on the Babson net·minder, short-handed goal. · Tlte · game winning goal for . Ballson came early in the third per'iod wben Dan.Hunter put the puck: past Kinghorn to give the Beavers a lead that they would never relinquish. Nelson Said· one~ again brought the Out- · chmen t{) within one goal when, at 8 :21~ he beaL Acquaviva during. a power play, to bring . tbe score to 3·2. Unfortunately, that is where the scoring ended,. as the Dutchmen found thelllselves on the down side of a thllee to two score. '!'his coming :weekend, the · Dutchmen will be the hosts to Concordia and Queens, for a miniature tournament in· vGlving tbese Canadian teams. HoPEfully, the Dutchmen will be able to get onto the winniilg traek over the weekend in order gaia momentum for the rest of the young season. · Men's and Women's Swimming & Diving Preview I ~ By TOM CHRISTOPHER . WThe ,198v'l·BB.t Me 8 n'~ ~nd omen s ars1 y WIIDII'Uiig ::t: and Diving teams will open · o their dual meet season at home ~ this Saturday at 1 p.m. against ..... Utica. With Union's s11perb new ~ pool, a. fine turnout Qf fresbmen ~ and upperclassmen swiJnmers, ~ . and the coaching effj()rts of o: assistant coach Susan Basset times as a result of in· · terceptions. The fourth quarter was a sloppy affair of turnovers and botched plays. \We. gave it all we had this day, they were the better team,\ a discouraged Rich Romer said after the game. The game culminated some out- standing careers for Dutclunen seniors. The accomplishinerits of the seniors in past seasons and this season should be looked upon with pride and a sense of accomplishment. and head coach Bob Mal!ee. the odds are very good to .start the se~111.with two wins (men and women). According t~J coach Basset, the Dutchmen. and women swilllmers _JVill \sur- prise\ a number of teams, if not an of them, tltis season. Heading the men's teilm are three senior 3-year letter winners: Larry Schac::t.er, Jeff Nolan, and Tom Chri:ltopher, and two sophomore lettermen: Lee Fraiji and Rob Dodge. Seniors · Craig Wrotni'an, Richard · Kinsella and Mark Abbey; . juniors Lo11is Jc>lm Wettalik and Steve Rock; sophomore Todd Kramer; . ahd freshmen J. Desmo~d Watd, Mike SkarbinSki, Joe Kowalski, Tom Kim, Gorgon Buchin, E. Jasen Broome, Marits B()()n, cmd Harold Allen bring this year's team to the critical m~ss nec:essary for some very fine SVIimming and divirig. The women's team bas only o11e returning letter winner, Matty Phipps, but with a strong nucleus of junior and sophomore letter-winners, the· team expects a winning dual meet season as well. Junior Jennifer Nolan, sophomores Wendy Sternberg, Lisa Piz- Equestrians Take On the ''Big Boy~'' Walk-Trot-Canter divisiCin. This .second win • in two shows qualifies Wood for the Advanced W-T•C division in the upcoming RPI show. . z11tto, Jami Lip$ber, Kathy Kavaney,. JoY Cybul, and Cindy Curtis ~n return as a winning varsity force. New members of tile '87 -88 . swimming Dut- Chwomen include seniors Kate Ide, Elinor Doty, and Beth Wi\ight; sophomores Jill Wolkstein and Mary Kelly; and freshmen Jackie Smith, Susan Torpie, Tara Thomas, Nina Sinilari, Ellen MatQff, Betil Fishbein, Nancy Conviser and Janice Aleieri. By SHARON PANAS Saturday, November 14th • 5 a.m.- A few remaining survivors of the campus night life stagger home. A group of stressed students with backpacks in band stwnble across libraey field from all-night study. And four dedicated members of the Union Equestrian Team pack boots, breeches, and hebnets into a car to begin a long day of competition at the Cazenovia College Intercollegiate Horse Show. Although lacking in size compared to the powerhouse riding schools of St. Lawrence; Skidmore, and Cazenovia, the team gave an excellent. showing and brought home the ribbons to prove it. The biggest triumph of the ~ay was the blue ribbon ride of Equestrian Club president Chris Wood in the Beginner· In their first IHSA show ever,. freshmen Stacy Papa. and Christina Calvi both tod-e well and placed in their classes. · Papa placed 5th in her B~g. W- T-C class and Calvi brought See EQUESTRIANS .. p. 18 or Saturday's opening meet in tlle Alumni Gymnasium Pool marks the staa:t .of a new tradition of excellence for Union Swimming ,..and Diving. The p~ssibilities are tremendota.s over the coming season and ill the seasons tQ com~.

