1877 - CXVI, No. 18 March 5 .. 1987 Sigma Phi A waiting Conduct Committee Findings; Decision Chang.e Possible Founders' Day Features Gould Speech \Individual or Fraternity\ Question May Le:ad To · Revisions By FIONA SiiUKRl Administrative Role ln Conduct Committee Disputed By LORI l.EON Conflicting opinions have Professors Schick, Peak Honored By D.B. GULLIVER arisen regarding both the The Febmary 25 Founders Pending meetings to be background and the im- Day Convocation, com- scheduled during this week,. a pli~ations of the Student Forum memo rating the 192 an- final deeisiofl will be niade by proposal to reduce the role of niversary of the· granting of Dean of .Students Joseph the C()nduct Committee's · . Dean of Stl,ldents Robert J. Massa, will be leaving his Union's charter, featured _a Mamtnola on whether or not principal investigator (i.e. office at Union tor an administrativeposition at Trinity University speech from illternationally- Sigma Phi wUl be :required to .administrative advisor). The in Sa11AnforHo, Texas. known scientist and writer leave their house for a· year. At AsSQciate DeM of Students Stephen Jay G()uld and the this tilne college has already serves as this adv'isor. Although . D. . ea.· .. n. . R. · ... O·bc .e· ·r· t M. . . ·.·a·. ·ssa t.o Leave presentation of endowed faculty asked the brothers to move out; the committee has· only hear.d chairs, Union's highest award butdependingontheoutcomeof • one ca.se this year, Forum in- .· u. · .. ·m.···.·.o·n·.· .. ··. N·.ext .. M· o.nth co· r. to a faculty member, to the future ·meetings· a .. ve!¢igations into the code. began 11 Professors Kenneth L. Schick modification of this proposed last year. The Student Affairs and DaVid Peak of the physics penalty is po'Ssible. According . Council received the pvoposal, ·p· .• ti. t'· 'Tr· ··m·ty· ·u· m·v department. to D.ean Mammola, any but w:ill probably not discuss. it .. ·. 'OSI ·. O·D a . . .. . . .. ··. . .. · ..• ·.· . • The well-attended ceremony modification would be a · intensely until next term~ .they . opened witll- bl;\ief addresses lessening in ~everity by ffiQst t\J,en send a recommendation to , By CijiUS'l'INE HONG .that he, .i$ going to miss Union· _ fr~ tbe @~~:!~am's marshal,. likely p¢natizipg the individual Pr~~JdentMo:r.t:is~~\ ·-~··: , _, --·, . mad tbnt,.,r-despitera;mnors, his Professor William - C; · Stone, or- mt;ti,vi:duttls' irivorve~ directly; : The code revisions were .i\6sociate Dean ·of Stud~nts <lecision had. \nothingto do With . Pres-ident J()hn S. Morrist moreseveteiy;wbile-plii¢ingth~ : brougbt tip a:t the o~ Sfud;ent Rhbert J. Massa is· leaving dissatl~faction at Union- faculty chai.,m~m Professor fraternity on._social probation . Fortiib. meeting last Wed- Union for the position .of whatsoever.~; Theodors Rick, Board of for a year inm-ead of eviction. · . ne$day. Conduct Committee Associate Vice President for- - Trustees Vice Cllairman Norton The issue -still of concern is chairman Scott K.lares was Academic Affairs at Trinity . ''I regretthe timing of all this Reamer, and Steven Moss, the degree of r.esponsibiUty tne present; though he had not been College in San Antonio, TeX!is~ • • • but we do have very · president of the Student F()rum . .fraternity as a whole stla.res for directly informed of the Massa, who_ has been at Unton capable people ••• to ease the In hia remarks, President What may have beenijie:actions proposal. As .of this past for seven years, including four- transition between my · Morris said that Founders Day of jllBt a . few or e:Ven one .in- Tuesday he still had not years in his present position, departure and the ap- is a \te$imony to our wish to dividual. Dean Mamniola states received. the potential changes Will be vacating bis office in pointment of my successor.\ keep~ touch with our history\ that · the college nitends to in writing from the Forwn. student .Affair$ early this April. Dean RobertJ. Massa and Mr. Reamer noted the determine whether in fact tbe Klaresd()eS not agree with their Massa antiCipates that he will changing nature of the world, violl:ttion was the act of one or suggesti()ns, nor does he feel begin his position at Trinity \on ·Massa, who was initially adding that the ceremonies few individuals. or a matter of .. influenced in any way by the or about April 8~\ While Massa recommended to Trinity by a were a means of \celebrating group. involvemt;Jnt. He points presence of an administrative is looking forward to the better · colleague from his first college our past\ while ''tbinking about out that although just one in- Continued·on.page3 po~ at Trmity, he commented · admin~trative job at Columbia the challenge of tbe future.\ diYidua1may be responsible for -...,...-----------------:::........;.-,-.,.,..._....._...:....:. ____ ____,_ University, became aware of In that sense, Dr. Gould's the cnm.e itself, the fraternity O 51 . d t f M ,. the possibility of his ap- remarks were intbe same vein. sbates. a \'corporate respon• . pen· ... U en . . orum . • .. e·e tng pointment to this position in Dr. G()uld; who is Professor of sibllity •. \ ·· d. C I • November, 1986. Massa Geology and Ale:xander Agassiz The college plans to provide a H' . ea· rs ·stu· . en· t om·p .• -~ tnts traveled to Trinity January 8 as Professor of Zoology at Bar- hearing in Wbich ''everyone ·. · < · · . • · . · · ·• • • .•. ; · · . · one ofthe three fblal candidates vard University,. was awarded involved has a chance to .state 0 l s· t c· h . . for the administrative post. an honorary degree as doctor of their case/' Dean Mammola ... n . ottery Y.· S· em. . . . ang.es Trinity offered the position to science. His speech, entitled said. Sigma Phi may choose Massa following which Massa \The Greening of the what form this hearing will ByDEBRAB.HONIG live off campus anyway. made a second trip to San Dinosaurs,\ began as a highly take, but is currently un- President of the Student Forum Antonio along with his wife. humol\'ous recounting of the decided. ·I'he house may decide The open Student Forum Steven Moss said that 100 Massa formally accepted the emerg1ng popularity of either to go before the Conduct · meeting February 27 in the Fox. seniors live on campus in· position on January 19. dinosaurs among both children Committee, Which is composed Lounge brought forth an eluding Re;:;iden~ AdVisors, and According to Massa, Trinity and scholars alike. After of nine students, or to state its assortment of opinions and added, ''The reason for the had wanted him to assUIIle his disc()unting the many myths case to Dean Massa. Mammola suggestions concerning the · propasal of the new system new office this past Monday; about dinosaurs; Dr. Gould likens the choice to \deciding Student Affairs CouncU's . woUld be the 13 senior males however, due to his respon- began to apply S()me of those Whether to go before a jury or a proposed changes in the lottery . and 3 senior females not in sibilities to Union concerning same myths about extinction to judge.'' Whichever th~ house system for housing. singles versus. a total of 44 ·pafents' Weekend and initial humankind. His analogy of decides, the final decision will The SAC's recommended sophomore males pushed off planning of Orientation 1987, evolution as a bush rather than be ultimately made by Dean modifications include that the campus.\ In addition, the , Massa negotiated a later a ladder, illustrated those ideas. Continued on page 3 priority order for singles and school would be in a better starting date for April. Com- He noted that the truly suc- CQnOP remain unchanged; that position to guarantee housing mented Massa on his rather cessful species spread out like the priority for all other in- for prospective .students. i abrupt departure, ~'This is a con1inuedonpage3 dependent housing change to Moss · concluded from the field where movement does sophom<»re, junioi'1 and senior; comnients ·generated at the · occur, and whenever an op- that students living off-campus · ·meetiijg that, \The debate is portunity develops, it seems qualify to participate . in the · one of tradition against ~me of 'short-sighted' not to accept the lottery for the 1987·1988 year; . emotional anxiety.'\ President challenge. Everyone wishes I that all fraternities and of the Inter-Fraternity Council could finish the academic year. SQrorities maintain a 95 percent Jeffrey McFariand believes, . . and, personally, I regret the occupancy rate in any given however, that . .personal . timing of all this, since I don't year; and that all of these . preference might interfere with like to leave something before I recommendations be im- · reasonable~ critical thinking finish it, but we d() have very pletnented spring term of 1988. · about the iSsues. He said, ''The capable people Qn .the Student The rationale for these changes • points that were brought up Affairs staff who will be able to revolves around the idea that about why sophomores shoUld . ease the transition between my sophomores, particularly • liveoncampusinsteadofoff are .. depatture and the appointment males, are subjected to· UQ~ legitimate concerns that aren't · of my successor.\ . necessary anxiety in :moving off being fairly addressed. That's . The successor for Massa's campus. According to th~ SAC, where the thoughts have to be. position has· nvt yet been seni()rS are more adept Ul ·finA · . It's not really who is going to get · decided. Massa, altbough un- ding off .. campus ho~ing than it, but what is better for the . willing to comment on any sophomores, and that the large · • whole., because if it goes into possible candidates., did say · · maj()rlty of seniors choose to Continued on pagd Continued on page 5 ·

Page2 CQNCORDIENSIS, MarchS, 1987 Union's Lenox Avenue Properties Regarded As Future Asset . By R. REED WHIIDDEN ·For most of us Union's campus has the boundaries of Lenox, Nott,. Seward, and Union Streets. However, the College, as an institution, owns more than just this campus for property. On Lenox Avenue located behind Fraternity Row-there are a few buildings and homes owned by Unian. houses on Lenox. Right now, . some of them are being leased to people employed by Union. For example, Dean Mammola lives in one of them. One is also occupied by , Professor Nydegger, and another by Mr; Robert Montana, Direetor of · Intramural Recreation and Physical E,:ducation and · prepare the coll~ge for f1tture growth, althougb thef'e no current plans for long~term development. Vic;.e Pre$ident J.ack Maranville comments on the college's realty on Lanox Avenue. One might wonder wh~t the college is doing with those assistant basketball coach. Some of the homes are rented to families having no connections with Uriion at all. The Dudley Observatory (a part of. Union University and owned by the College) is in that area, too. The holding of this l\<ind therefore,, is not .sheerly .for economical reasons; An(»ther reason is that the College would like to have, specifically, tl'te Dean of Students, on ornearthe campus. Maranville a1so,says it is nice to have that prQpert:y up there to act as a buffer 1() the rest of the community. \VVetry to follow a good neighbor policy, aQd this lets us do it.\ Student Forum Me·m·bers Support Proposed Changes. in Housi,ng :Lottery Most of the laad Union has ~;~.ttai.ned on Lenox were given to Union as gifts. One house that was formerly owned by the Golubs-the same family that One horne owner on Lenox:, Charles Elston, saidthat.hehas not had too many problems living next to Union. lie :Jays Union is, for the most' p-art, a good neighbor. He has lived there for · 26 years ancl is not · about to move, \The students haven't driven us out yet' ' ~ays Mr. Elston. Elven if the :music Continued from page 1 effect, sornebody's going to be stuck by it.\ Throughout the meeting, students made some suggestions to alleviate any controversy whatsoever over sophomore-senior priorities. These alternatives included an open lottery system, giving the few on-campus seniors first choice, establishing townhouses at Girling Center, building a new dormitory on-campus, improving already existing housing in Webster and Hickok, filling in rooms when students are on terms abroad, and trimming the size of the in- coming classes. Sophomore Rick Roberts said, \I feel that the program has some un- derlying issues that have not been brought in the light. The program wouldn't have been suggested had there not been a particularly large freshman class enrolled at Union . this year.\ Moss pointed out that the option of building a new. dor- mitory is not available now, because of a lack of funds. The Senior Trustee Julie Mountain disapproved of the idea· of townhouses, since it is not a priority at the moment. Finally, Dean of Residence Life David Wood explained that the few rooms that open up from term to term because of terms abroad are unlikely to be oc- cupied by a student who has already settled into an off- campus house, contracted for a full year. In addition; the empty rooms in the Greek houses, though available to in- dependents, are rarely at- tractive options for them. Many members of the student body emphasized the anxiety that freshmen experience when looking for housing for the following year. Junior Trustee Mark Webster, a Resident Ad~ visor, pointed out, \The sophomore year is probably one of the most difficult ones, especially for pre-meds and engineers,. and I think that the fact of just having the support network of aResidentAdvisor in a dorm setting is a lot easier · · owns the infamous Price . f • year was the year that I first C·h· op\\'r.-....:wa· s w· .illed ... ·to un· t'o.n. than having the amuety o t d tt' · 1 d · .t'\' · stare ge mg mvove m Th. ePar·kerRI'ce.ho.use·wasa·lso paying rent and going to the h' d 'f I 't 1· · . · t mgs, an· 1 · wasn 1vmg on- will·· ed to ·u· n1'o·n. Price Chopper.'' Mountam I uld b 1 t 1 , . . campus, wo · · e a 0 . · ess ·Both of ·thes· e homes· a· re confirmed Webster s opnnon, 1 d h 1 \ I : invo ve t an am now. n u·noc· cu·pl'ed. as 1't stand·s. by adding that as an Orientation · dd' · w b t 'd \A 1 t f Ad . • d a Itlon, e s er sai ' 0 0 However, the· Go·lub house 1's · from across the street is a little too loud, he can always as!\ \'the fellows\ as he puts it, to tUJ)n it · down.· One problem he fi.,nds, being a neighbor, is parkin{!. It seems everyQne llkes to :park on Lenox for .sporting. events. but the College is handling tlli~ as · v1sor, she saw how concerne h · think th t 't' th · · t e semors a ·1 s eir used t·o a· ccomodate ·g·uests both freshmen and parents t th • k' d f las year, so eyre m 0 (lect·ur. es a· nd ·the lik· ·e). to the were over housing, as early as b d th 1 d be d th the first week of the first term. ~yon e · aw' an · · yon · e college. The Par~er Rice house, Then various students rules and regulations of the although it is fully alarmed and 1 . d . · college.\ On the other hand~ . ch. ecked regularly ·by secur1\ty c aiiDe · that givmg semors ·1 st d t 1 · d th t severa u en s c aune a . is·not bern'· g used ·at t·hemornent, priority in housing is a logical · · f ' th · removmg semors rom e · .and. Jack Maranv1'll·e, Vice and reasonable request. uld d t t f · . campus wo · e rae rom Pr.· esident for Institutional well as they can, ~ According to junior, Lori Leon, 1 d h' R b rt 'd \I f· 1 d • · ea ers tp. o · e s sa1 , ee • Planning, says. ·that·. Union has. another R.A., \It has a lot to o h h · h t t · t · at t e semors · ave o se an no specif1'c plans .. for that ·house. Union does stretch Iurther than the average.student tili:nks. This stretch benefits n()t ()nly the College, but the rest ~f the community as well. with tradition . . . It would d I h\ k e:xample for others, an t lP · Maranville did say that the \The points that been . · that's a very important part of · • reason for owning the homes brought up about why C(Jllege life that would be and property on Lenox is to knocked out.\ · sophomores should live on · The proposal to increase the campus instead of off are fraternity occupancy to 95 legitimate concerns that percent, in order to maximize aren't being fail.\ly ad- space, . is one that several dressed.\ I.F .C. Pres. · fraternity members objected to, Jeff McFarland saying that Greek housing is a subject of its own. McFarland alienate seniors. After they;ve pointed out, ''The ad-. been here for so long, and ministration is very hurt QY an they've worked up from being · image of Greekbusters. So, if freshmen, and are comfortable you want to raise it to 95 per- and established in the system, cent, you're going to put some as far as housi.ilg, they're three or four more houses in getting pushed back down.\ A · jeopardy. That's taking it too number of students responded far.\ by reminding the group t~at Dean Wood explained the since the priority for singles possibility of the present Sigma would not change, and most Phi house becoming an seniors choose singles, very · academic, international, or little injustice would be done. . quiethousenextyear. Later on, According to the statistics, he described the present except for resident advisors, 13 • fraternity housing system by senior males and three senior . saying, \If you are presently females are not in singles this . living in a fraternity house, year. A handful of sophomore · y<>u're excluded from the lot- males., however, insisted that • tery system, and that's the only seniority should grant them as · real way we have of governing much leeway as possible in . it.'' So fratEJrnity members can making living arrangements. now acquire lottery numbers before moving into their house, but the proposed system would pr~eot them from doing so if their house were not full. Another controversial aspect involved the contributions of seniors to campus life. A number of upperclassmen claimed that come senior year, seniors are established in their activities, and continue to participate in them whether they live on or off campus. On the same note, they believe that the most crucial time for in- volvement is in the sophomore year. Junior Representative Geri Mackey said, \Sophomore Some students feel that this 85 percent places an unfair strain on fraternity members to have to live in their house. McFarland stated, \One of the things that a fraternity is, is a group of individuals, and each one of them should be able to do . his own thing-a term abroad, Continued on page 5 • • • \' Big Brothers/ Big Sisters has the support of Sigma Phi make a donation to any Sig Phi Brother or Pledge for the Big Brothers/Big Sisters · Bowl·a-thon OORE MOUNTAIN CAP IT· COLLEGE SPRING FROLIC Tuesday, March to, t98l $1 0 Lift Passes (with College ID) Outdoor Barbeque Vuarnet Ski Race Miss Gore Contest Great Prizes ·COCOA BUTTER OPEN • • • Saturday; ·March t4 $ I 4 Lift Passes Free Cocoa Butter Tanning Lotion (while supplies last) Bump Skiing Contest Skis awarded top male & female finishers Outdoor Barbeque Entertainment GORE MOUNTAIN SKI AREA NORTH CREEK, NY t28S:S • OlYMPIC AUTHORilY i . l. ·., ~ . ''I I(; I . I. , i :

Page2 CONCORDJENSIS, March5, 1987 Union's Lenox Avenue Properties F'uture Asset Regarded As 0 +- 0 ..c c. (!) IL Vice President Jack Maranvi lie comments on the coi'lege's realty on Lanox Avenue. By R. REED WHIDDEN For most of us Union's campus has the boundaries of Lenox, Nott, Seward, and Union Streets. However, the College, as an institution, owns move than just this campus for property. On Lenox Avenue located behind Fraternity Row-there are a few bui!ldings and homes owned by Union. One might wonder what the college is doing with those Student Forum Members Support Proposed Ch:anges in Housing Lottery Continued from page I effect, somebody's going to be stuck by it.\ Throughout the meeting, students made some suggestions to alleviate any controversy whatsoever over sophomore-senior priorities. These alternatives included an open lottery system, giving the few on-campus seniors first choice, establishing townhouses at Girling Center, building a new dormitory on-campus, improving already existing housing in Webster and Hickok, filling in rooms when students are on terms abroad, and trimming the size of the in- coming classes. Sophomore Rick Roberts said, \I feel that the program has some un- derlying issues that have not been brought in the light. The program wouldn't have been suggested had there not been a particularly large freshman class enrolled at Union this year.\ Moss pointed out that the option of building a new dor· mitory is not available now, because of a lack of funds. The Senior Trustee Julie Mountain disapproved of the idea of townhouses, since it is not a priority at the moment. Finally, Dean of Residence Life David Wood explained that the few rooms that open up from term to term because of terms abroad are unlikely to be oc- cupied by a student who has already settled into an off- campus house, contracted for a full year. In addition, the empty rooms in the Greek houses, though available to in- dependents, are rarely at· tractive options for them. Many members of the student body emphasized the anxiety that freshmen experience when looking for housing for the following year. Junior Trustee Mark Webster, a Resident Ad- visor, pointed out, \The sophomore year is probably one of the most difficult ones, especially for pre-meds and engineers, and I think that the fact of just having the support network of aResidentAdvisor in a donn setting is a lot easier than having the anxiety of paying rent and going to the Price Chopper.\ Mountain confirmed Webster's opinion, by adding that as aa Orientation Advisor, she saw how concerned both freshmen and parents were over housing, as early as the first week of the first term. Then various students claimed that giving seniors priority in housing is a logical and reasonable request. According to junior, Lori Leon, another R.A., \It has a lot to do with tradition . . . It would \The points that been brought up about why sophomores should live on campus instead of off are legitimate concerns that aren't being fairly ad- dressed.\ I.F.C. Pres. Jeff McFarland alienate seniors. After they've been here for so long, and they've worked up from being freshmen, and are comfortable and established in the system, as far as housing, they're getting pushed back down.\ A number of students responded by reminding the group that since the priority for singles would not change, and most seniors choose singles, very little injustice would be done. According to the statistics, except for resident advisors, 13 senior males and three senior females are not in singles this year. A handful of sophomore males, however, insisted that seniority should grant them as much leeway as possible in making living arrangements. Another controversial aspect involved the contributions of seniors to campus life. A number of upperclassmen claimed that come senior year, seniors are established in their activities, and continue to participate in them whether they live on or off campus. On the same note, they believe that the most crucial time for in- volvement is in the sophomore year. Junior Representative Geri Mackey said, ''Sophomore year was the year that I first started getti11g involved in things, and if I wasn't living on~ campus, I would be a lot less involved than I am now.\ In addition, Webster said, \A lot of the seniors thiRk that it's their last year, so they're kind of beyond the law, and beyond the rules and regulations of the college.\ On the other ha11d, several students claimed that removing seniors from the campus would detract from leadership. Roberts said, \I feel that the seniors have to set an example for others, and I think that's a very important part of college life that would be knocked out.'' The proposal to increase the fraternity occupancy to 95 percent, in order to maximize space, is one that several fraternity members objected to, saying that Greek housing is a subject of its own. McFarland pointed out, \The ad- ministration is very hurt by an image of Greekbusters. So, if you want to raise it to 95 per- cent, you're going to put some three or four more houses in jeopardy. That's taking it too far.\ Dean Wood explained the possibility of the present Sigma Phi house becoming an academic, international, or quiet house next year. Later on, he described the present fraternity housing system by saying, \If you are presently living in a fraternity house, you're excluded from the bt- tery system, and that's the only real way we have of governing it.\ So fraternity members can now acqUire lottery nwnbers before moving into their house, but the proposed system would preyent them from doing so if their house were not full. Some students feel that this 85 percent places an unfair strain on fraternity members to have to live in their house. McFarland stated, \One of the I things that a fraternity is, is a group of individuals, and each one of them should be able to do his own thing-a term abr?ad, Continued on page 5 This Week's Events Thursday, Marella Saturday, March? Sunday, March8 3:45p.m. Bailey 312. MBA Colloquium Speaker Michael C. Nahl. «Making Albany International Private'; . . . . · 7:30p.m.. Nott Memorial. Lucinda Childs Dance Company: lecture and Demon~ stration. . · - · tl: oo p.:m. Memorial Chapel; Polish Chamber Philharmunic Orctwstra with piam~t Alexander Pt!Skanov. 9:00, ll:OOp;.m. HaleHon..<:te,Cabaret. 3:00p.m. HUll!. 213. Philosophy QolloqUbFWilliamst Pro£e~~r .. ft HFerrunism. Pornography\ and th~ Future of S~xuality. H · .Wd N. · ... Professor Donald Vandeve~r. ''Cens.oringMisogynist Ptmtography,''' 7, 9 1 11 p.m. 85016. Movie: ~nd.\ly:MJe. . . .. . . ... .. . .. 3:00 p~m. Nott Mem()l'i~. The· Petislmble Theatre uf Providence RI tJerforms Chekhov's HTheThtt1eS:ISters/l · 9:00p.m.-2:0Ua.m. ~aleHouse. 21 Clup. ·... . .. . . . lOiOOp.m.-1 :00 a.m. Bale House. ''lOO.Day$ toGraduatlon 1 ~ party. 7, 9, 11 p.m. SS016. Mov~e: Stand By ;Me. 9:00p.m.~2:00 a.m. 21 Club. 3:OOp.m. Memorial Chapel. OetavosConcert. 1, 9,Up.m •. SS016. Movie: Stand By Me. houses on Lenax::. H~ght now, some of them are IJeing leased to people employed lly Union. For example, DeaJJ Mammola lives in one of them. ~One is also occupied by Professor Nydegger, and an()ther by Mr. Robert Montana~ Direct@r of Intramural Recr,eatiolil and Physical Educat illn and assistant basketllall coach. Some of the bomesare rentecl to families having no e<Jnnections with Union at all. Tile Dudley Observatory (a p11.111t of Union University and omhed hy the College) is in that area, tao. Mast of the la:nd Union has attained on Lenax: ~elle given to Union as gifts. One bouse that was formerly o'\I'Iled by the Golubs-the same family that owns the infalllo us Price Chopper-was wille(i to Union. The Parker Rice house was also willed to Union. Both of these h<ornes are unoccupied as it stands. However, the Gohub house is used to accomo<l.ate guests (lectures and the lii<e) to the college. The Parker-Rice house, although it is fully ali!rnJ.ed and checked regularly by security, is not being used at the moment, and Jack Maran ville, Vice President for lmstitutional Planning, says that Union has no specific plans for that house. MaranvHle did s.a31 that the reason for owning the homes and property on LenQX is to prepare the college for future growth, although there no current plans for long-term development. The holding of this land, therefore, is not sheerly for economical reasons. Another reason is that the College would like to have, specifically, the Dean of Stl:tdents, on or near the campi.IS. Maranville also says it is nice to have that property up there to act as a buffer to the rest of the community. \We try to follow a good neighbor policy, and this lets us do it.\ One home owner on Lenox, Charles Elston, said tl:iat he has not had toe many problems living Hext to Union. He says Union is, for the most part, a goocl neighbor. He has lived there for 26 years and is not about to move, \The students haven't driven us out yet\ says Mr. Elston. Even if the music from across the street is a little too loud, he can always ask \the fellows\ as he puts it, to turn it down. One problem he finds, being a neighbor, is parking. It seems everyone likes to park on Lenox for sporting events. but the College is handling this as well as they can. - Union does stretch further than the average student thinks. This stretch benefits not only the College, but the rest of the community as well. Big Brothers/ Big Sisters ,. • .. • * has the support of Sigma Phi make a donation to any Sig Phi Brother or Pledge for the Big Brothers/Big Sisters Bowl-a~thon GORE MOUNTAIN CAPlT COLLEGE SPRING FROLIC Tue:sday, March 10, 198! $1 0 Ltf-t Passes (w1th College ID) Outdoor Barbeque Vuarnet Ski Race Miss Goore Contest Great Pr1z:es COCOA BUTTER OPlN .. Saturday, March t4 $ 14 Uft Passes Free Cocoa Butter Tanning Lotion (wh1le su~pl1es. last) Bump S.ki ing Contest Sk1s av;arded top male & female fin1shers Outdb()r Barbeque Entert.a11J1ment GORE MOUNTAIN SKI AREA NORTH CREEKF M1' 1Ul53 * DIVMPIC AUTHORITY ·····\\\· 'i· i I I ,; l i i 1

' i ; : C.9!VCQRDlENSlS, Marc_h 5, /98? . Page3 Gould Criticiz·es ·Blind Faith in Technology Schick, Peak .·Name.d to Bailey Chairs Continued from. page 1 ,- the twigs on a bush; mankind weil. was not as successful because Professor Schick is a graduate he represents one isolated twig. of Columbia University and 'Dr. Gould called it \life's little · received his Ph.D. from joke\: that \we inappropriately' Rutgers University. He has focus on the ladder instead of . been a. member of the Union. the bush ... our twig should not . faculty since 1959 ·and . has be regarded as the to~ rung.'' • served as chairman of · the Standing teacher award, and in 1973 was named the Univer- sity's outstanding teacher. He has been at Union since 1975 and has been department chairman since 1984. He is a member of the Union BoardofTrustees and was a founding. member of the Council on Undergraduate Research in. Physics. He has been a visiting scientist at Princeton University and the Algonne National Laboratol'y and. is currently a research fellow at . the Goddard Space Flight\ Center. Peak has received research grants from the National Science Foun~ dation, the_ department of energy and NASA. Julie Mountain, Senior Student Trustee, comments on the .present Conduct Committee hearing policies and the proposed changes. .c +- E V) ttl u u Q} .0 Q} 0! >- .0 jE ·0 .s::. 0. Dr. Gould sees today s values • department and the Division of as part of the problem. Qur · Science. Outside of Union, he society believes that • has served as Chairman of the ''technology 'wiH be ()Ur , NYS section of the AJD.erican salvation ... .ihve can dream it • Associ:ation of Physics we can do it.'' With such ideas, • · Teachers, been a visiting we forget that we are a part of · · pr~fessor three times at tbe nature, as susceptible to lt as . Leiden University Medical any other creature. He used the · School in The Netherlands, and growing AIDS epidemic. as an has been a visiting f.ellow at the example: \Disease is a .part (If Weizmann Institute in Israel. the course ()f nature:' ~nd Professor .Schick. is noted at humans are proving to be Union for his work in optics and natural. Dr. Gould conclu.ded hh~ research has included such his intriguing talk, ~y:ing as 'various subjects as light- \! advocate the hard reality (If scattering, ion· flow and flue- recognizing what our situation · tuation phenomena and tbe is 'in nature,\ and that-we mtLSt · visual physiology and electrical realize that QUr intelligence, is • properties of frog nodes, and is our part of the twig and' 'has the • currently worl@g with a grant .poWer to find. the mechanism.\ · from the National Science Pro·posed Conduct Amendments Draws Conflicting Opinions From Committee Members We are part of uature, not F(lundation. superior to it, but capable ()f . working Within it. · Professor Peak received his Professors Schick and P~alt B.S.from SUNY New Paltz and were honored with their ap- ·.his Ph.D from SUNY AlbarJY. pointment to the Frank and While teaching at Albany for 5 Marie Louise Bailey Chair in years, he twice received the Physics at the ceremopy as · 1 physics department's out- C4Jntinued from page 1 figure,. as insinuated by them. lie . found it ·\insulting\ that such a presence during the · ccnduct committee's hearing or deliberations might affect the expression of his feelings. Student Forum President Steve Moss stated that the goal of the proposal was not to c(lrnpletely remove the. prin· Sigma Phi Decision Must Make Statement While Determinin~g Bounds of Responsibility Continued from .page 1 · future involvement in \service the line · when detenning a Mammola, as the· outcome of . oriented and philanthropic fraternity's degree. of either hearing will be merely a programs\ Mammola states responsibility for the actions of recommendation of appropriate that he is confident that the an ·individual or of some action. letter is sincere, but that there unrepresentative few. States While Mamm<>la points ont that he usually concurs with the Conduct Committee's decisions and feels it is likely that Sigilla Phi will therefore choose 'to· gv·, before it, he n()tes that \One's peers are often the hardest t(l fool.\ Also worthy of con- sideration is the fact that Sigrna Phi's new president, Scott Klares, happens to also .be the Chairman · of the Conduct Committee. In the event the fraternity does choose to be heard by the committee, Klares would be asked to \step aside during the proceedings. . In response to Sigma Pill's letter ·that appeared in last week's Concordiensis, proposing the fraternity's is still a complex and serious Mammola; \Presumably the matter at 'hand. Mammola fraternity sanctioned it.\ While doesn't recall the ad- he realizes that individuals ministration ever having to deal can't be asked to control each. with a similar problem of an other'S behavior, he wonders •• 1 • l ' : · • · where 'frahirrlities will draW'the.· . \The administration is as · much on trial as are the · sW,dents involved.\ · Dean Mammola entire fraternity being im~ . plicated in such a violation, and -feels that \The administration is as much on trial as are the students involved.\ The administration is now forced to · clairfy its stand on drugs, while also having to . deCide exactly where to draw line on, restricting each others' actions within the house if not at the production of drugs. Mammola hopes that whatever the administration does decide concerning Sigma Phi, the very emertence of the issue will help the members of Greek organizations feel more free · than before to take more initiative in controlling fellow members. His hope may be well . founded. As Klares states, \The entire issue certainly has been an eye-opening experience.~~ Your Business Or Computer Science Deg Is The Key To Success At Mass Mutual If you navean interestin.computersandyou are maintain a 1:1 programmerller.minal ratio. a goodproblem solver, this is your opportunity to Mass Mutual, a Fortune 100:Company with over enter atrufy exceptionaltralning program. During $16 billion dollars in assets, provides financial our 15•week, fully-paid .program, selected can·· security and protection for nearly 2.6 million didates Will be completely trained to be COBOL Americans. Salaries are competitive. Hours are programmers t;>n an Arndahl (IBM Compatible) flexible. We offer an exceptionally fine benefits mainframe or Hewlett .Pa'Okard 3000 or DEC program and a long list of on-site amenities that minicomputer. After you navecompletedthefor- can improve the quality of your life: fitness mal training program, you'll be assigned to an ap- center, cafeteria, store, credit union·, free parking plications programming department where we and more. Mail your resume, in confidence, to: William S. Terbush, Senior Personnel Recruiter. Mass Mutual~ Massachusetts Mutual Life lnsum,nce Company 1295 State Stree.t, Springfield, MA 01111 An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H cipai investigator, but to clarify the position and have a more a ut.onomous committee. · However, \some people ex- pressed some .skepticism so we are looking into this further he said later. Forum members Julie Mountain and Susan Neumann looked into the situation after an advisor to a student who had chosen the committee hearing (as opposed to a private ad- ministrative hearing) com- plained. ~ccording to Momttain, when committee members were approached they showed · concern abOut the principal investigator'.s role in the hearing. \Some committee members voiced concerns and so did ·members of the student body that were accused ... they felt that the principal in- vestigator could present the material in a. very biased fashion.\ ' In response to ·. this, Klares stated firmly ''I find no evidence of this.\ A former committee member said that Dean Massa \presents relevant facts . . . and has insights into peoples' characters and can tell . if a student just happened to be caught in the wrong place at the wrong time or if he or she will pose further problems for the campus.\ A third committee member declined to comment. The administrative role entails providing the chairman of the committee with pertinent information about the case once the student has chosen the committee hearing. He also answers any questions about procedure or previous cases. It is a minority of accused students. who choose the cotritnittee hearing, about 5 of 45 cases per year. When asked if . someone could influence the accused student's choice of disciplinary process, Massa replied \Yes if it means helping them make a decision .. . . . If I cannot sort out the evidence as an individual then I have to recommend to the accused that he or she go to the eonduct Committee.\ As far; as influencing the committee, he said \I would hope not, if, by inflUence you mean swaying their decision. '' But Mountain said \Accor- ding to some members of . the committee, the role that the Coming up this spring . administration plays can be abused and unfortunately it has been . . . It says that he' follows .the guidelines, but if he really followed the guidelines, why would we have complaints in the first place?\ \My general feelings are positive,\ she continued, \I'm not trying to point the finger at anyone ... as a Student Forum representative I feel that I have a responsibility to listen to comments and complaints by students . . . the role that the Conduct Committee plays is representative of a jury of your peers.\ Klares, however, does not understand exactly where these complaints are coming from, as it is difficult to pinpoint second or third hand sources. Massa believes the role of the principal investigator is \an important one.\ He said \I think that I'm helpful to the Conduct Committee and I don't, in all honesty get them to go in any direction. If the SAC and Student Forum feel a change is needed, I would welcome it as long as the Conduct Committee is not adversely affected.'' \Discipline he emphasized, \has to be educational. Unfortunately,sometimes it has to hurt.\ Students who have violated the standards of behavior expected from the college community must be aware that their actions were wrong. \If they do not un- derstand why those are violations, they must be educated ... \Ifi said to the committee that what the accused did was wrong and the committee should show they're repulsed by this ac- tion-! think this should help them in the hearing.\ Amidst the complicated violations the need for a stable and consistent conduct code is evident. It will be to the general benefit to clarify all procedures. While the members of the conduct committee, who have been selected carefully and trained to listen and sort through different versions of events, are responsible, the cohesiveness of working with an administration can continue to aid the student-Administration relationship. Making a disciplinary decision is difficult enough to do. INTE.RNATIONAL WEEKEND 1987 Sponsored by International Students Union r .. f

I I ,; I CONCORD!ENSJS, March 5, 1987 Page 3 Gould Criticizes Blind Faith in Technology· Schick, Peak Named to Bailey Chairs Continued from page 1 the twigs on a bush; mankind was not as successful because he represents one isolated twig. Dr~ Gould called it ''life's little . joke\: that \we inappropriately · focus on the ladder instead of the bush ... our twig should not be regarded as the top rung.\ I well. standing teacher award, and in 1973 was named the Univer- sity's outstaading teacher. He has been at Union since 1975 and has been department chairman since 1984. He is a member of the Union Board of Trustees and was a founding member of the Council on Undergra-duate Research in Physics. He :has been a visiting scientist at Princeton University and the Algonne Nati<mal Laboratory and is currently a research fellow at the Goddard Space Flight\ Center. Peak has received research grants from the National Science Foun- dation, the department of energy and NASA. Julie Mountain, Senior Student Trustee, comments on the present Conduct Commitiee hearing policies and the proposed changes. .c: - E tr) ttl u u CI.J .0 CI.J ~ >- .0 0 ...... . o ,.C !Cl. Dr. Gould sees today's values as pari of the problem. Our . society believes that \technology will be our salvation ... if we can dream it we can do it.\ With such ideas, we forget that we are a part of nature, as susceptible to it as any other creature. He used the growing AIDS epidemic as an example: \Disease is a part of the course of nature\ and humans are proving to be natural. Dr. Gould concluded his intriguing talk, saying \I advocate the hard reality of recognizing what our situation · is in nature,\ and that we must realize that our intelligence is . our part of the twig and ''has the power to find the mechanism.\ We are part of nature, not superior to it, but capable of working within it. Professor Schick is a gradu.ate of Colum.bia University and received his Ph.D. fr10m Rutgers University. He has been a member of the Urtion faculty since 1959 and .bas served as chairman of \the department and the Divisiom of Science. Outside of Union, he has served as Chairman ,~f the NYS section of the American Association of PhysJcs Teachers, been a visiH.ng professor three times at the Leiden University Medical School in The Netherlands, and has been a visiting fellow at the Weizmann Institute in Isi1CJel. Professor Schick is note<! at Union for his work in optics and his research has included swch as various subjects as lig:ht- scattering, ion flow and HllC- tuation phenomena and the visual physiology and elect.rie!al properties of frog nodes, a11cl is currently working with a grant from the National Scioe11ce Foundation. Proposed Conduct Amendments Draws Conflicting Opinions From Committee Members Professors Schick and Peak were honored with their ap- pointment to the Frank and Marie Louise Bailey Chair in Physics at the ceremony as Professor Peak receivEcl llis B.S. from SUNY New Paltz; and his Ph.D from SUNY Al!r.any. While teaching at Albany for 5 years, he twice receivecl the physics department's out- . Continued from page 1 figure, as insinuated by them. He found it \insulting\ that such a presence during the conduct committee's hearing or deliberations might affect the expression of his feelings. Student Forum President Steve Moss stated that the goal of the proposal was not to completely remove the. prin· Sigma Phi Decision Must Make Statement While Determining Bounds of Responsibility Continued from page 1 Mammola, as the outcome of either hearing will be merely a recommendation of appropriate action. While Mammola points out that he usually concurs with the Conduct Committee's decisions and feels it is likely that Sigma Phi will therefore choose to go before it, he notes that \One's peers are often the hardest to fool.\ Also worthy of con- sideration is the fact that Sigma Phi's new president, Scott Klares, happens to also be the Chairman of the Conduct Connnittee. In the event the fraternity does choose to be heard by the connnittee, Klares would be asked to step aside during the proceedings. In response to Sigma Phi's letter that appeared in last week's Concordiensis, proposing the fraternity's future involvement in \service oriented and philanthr-opic programs\ Mannnola states that he is confident that the letter is sincere, but that there is still a complex and serious matter at hand. Mamrnola doesn't recall the ad- ministration ever having to deal with a similar problem Q;f an ''The administration is as much on trial as are the students involved.\ Dean Mammola entire fraternity being im- plicated in such a violation, a11d feels that \The administraticm is as much on trial as are the students involved.\ The administration is I1~W forced to clairfy its stand on drugs, while also having to decide exactly where to dia!w the line when determing a fraternity's degree of responsibility for the actions of an individual or of some unrepresentative few. States Mannnola; \Presumably the fraternity sanctioned it.\ While he realizes that individuals can't be asked to control each other's behavior, he wonders where fraternities will draw the line on restricting each others' actions within the house if not at the production of drugs. Mammola hopes that whatever the administration does decide concerning Sigma Phi, the very emertence of the issue will help the members of Greek organizations feel more free than before to take more initiative in controlling fellow members. His hope may be well founded. As Klares states, \The entire issue certainly has been an eye-Gpening experience.\ SEND US YOUR RESUME IMMEDIATELY SO WE CAN ARRANGE AN APPOINTMENT! We will be conducting local inter- views BY APPOINTMENT ONLY on April 8 & 7 Hotel Syracuse Syracuse Sq., 500 S. Warrell St. • Syracuse, NY If you have an interest in computers and you are maintain a 1:1 programmer/terminal ratio. a good problem solver, this is your opportunity to Mass MutLaal, a Fortune 100 Company with over enter a truly exceptional training program. During $16 billion doOIIars in assets, provides financial our 15-week, fully-paid program, selected can- security amJ protection for nearly 2.6 million didates will be completely trained to be COBOL Americans. Salaries are competitive. Hours a~e programmers on an Amdahl (IBM Compatible) flexible. We coffer an exceptionally fine benefits mainframe or Hewlett Packard 3000 or DEC program ancl a long list of on-site amenities that minicomputer. After you have completed the for- can improve the quality of your life: fitness mal training program, you'll be assigned to an ap· center, cafEteria, store, credit union, free parking plications programming department where we and more. Mail your resume, in confidenceo, to: WilliamS. Terbush, Senior Personnel ilecruiter. Mass Mutual ~ Massachusetts Mutual Life lnsurancoe C()mpany 1295 State Street, Springfield, MA ().1\111 An Equai·Opportun1ty Employer M/FtH cipal investigator, but to clarify the position and have a more autonomous committee. However, \some people ex- pressed some skepticism so we are looking into this further he said later. Forum members Julie Mountain and Susan Newnann looked into the situation after an advisor to a student who had chosen the committee hearing (as opposed to a private ad- ministrative hearing) com- plained. According to Mountain, when connnittee members were approached they showed concern about the principal investigator's role in the hearing. \Some committee members voiced concerns and so did members of the student body that were accused ... they felt that the principal in· vestigator could present the material in a very biased fashion.'' In response to this, Klares stated firmly \I find no evidence of this.\ A former committee member said that Dean Massa \presents relevant facts . . . and has insights into peoples' characters and can tell if a student just happened to be caught in the wrong place at the wrong time or if he or she will pose further problems for the campus.\ A third committee member declined to comment. The administrative role entails providing the chairman of the committee with pertinent information about the case once the student has chosen the committee hearing. He also answers any questions about procedure or previous cases. It is a minority of accused students who choose the committee hearing, about 5 of 45 cases per year. When asked if someone could influence the accused student's choice of disciplinary process, Massa replied \Yes if it means helping them make a decision .. . . . If I cannot sort out the evidence as an individual then I have to recommend to the accused that he or she go to the Conduct Conunittee.\ As far as influencing the conunittee, he said \I would hope not, if, by influence you mean swaying their decision.\ But Mountain said \Accor- ding to some members of the connnittee, the r()le that the administration plays can be abused and unfortunately it has been ... It says that he follows the guidelines, but if he really followed the guidelines, why would we have complaints in the first place? \ \My general feelings are positive,\ she continued, \I'm not trying to point the finger at anyone ... as a Student Forum representative I feel that I have a responsibility to listen to comments and complaints by students . . . the role that the Conduct Committee plays is representative of a jury of your peers.\ Klares, however, does not understand exactly where these complaints are coming from, as it is difficult to pinpoint second or third hand sources. Massa believes the role of the principal investigator is \an important one.\ He said ''I think that I'm helpful to the Conduct Committee and I don't, in all honesty get them to go in any direction. rf the SAC and Student Forwn feel a change is needed, I would welcome it as long as the Conduct Committee is not adversely affected.\ \Discipline he emphasized, \has to be educational. Unfortunately,sometimes it has to hurt.\ Students who have violated the standards of behavior expected from the college community must be aware that their actions were wrong. \If they do not lUl- derstand why those are violations, t:l!ey must be educated ... ''If I said to the committee that what the accused did was wrong and the committee should show they're repulsed by this ac- tion-! think this should help them in the hearing.\ Amidst the complicated violations the need for a stable and consistent conduct code is evident. It will be to the general benefit to clarify all procedures. While the members of the conduct committee, who have been selected carefully and trained to listen and sort through different versions of events, are responsible, the cohesiveness of working with an administration can continue to aid the student-Administration relationship. Making a disciplinary decision is difficult enough to do. ' . . ' ~ . ' ' . ' . ' ~ ' . ' ' . . .~. ' . Coming up this spring INTERNATIONAL WEEKEND 1987 Sponsored by International Students Union , : . .. . . \ . '; ' ' . ~ ··- .

Page4 CONCORDJENSIS,Morch5, 1987 ---NOTEWORTHY NEWS--.-- -- NYS Celebrates U.S. Constitution Ratification New York State has already commenced on a three-year long eelebration of its ratification of the United States Constitution. This mmith will mark the unveiling of a poster in Albany picturing a life-size mural that was painted in 1937, depicting the ratification of the U.S Constitution by N~w York legislators at Poughkeepsie in 1788. A ceremony win be held for the unveiling. The celebration will continue through the end of 1989, and will include exhibits, educational, and special events. This past February, the state fuosted an exhibit or rare state documents from the State Archives, many of which are not planned to go on exhibit again. Particular interest was paid to this exhibit for that reason as well as Governor Cuomo's claim that New Yofk's early law:~; \set the pattern for the national Con- stitution.\ This coming May 1, Law Day, a display of rare books will be displayed iit the State Court of Appeals building in Albany emphasizing the period's legal writings in which the U.S Constitution was written. Keck Grant will Provide for Electron Microscope Union College has been awarded by the W~M. Keck Foundation of Los Angeles a grant of $125,000 to acquire equipment for the ehemistry, geology, and mechanical engineering departments. Planned for purchase are a scanning electron microscope (SEM) and a fourier transform nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer (NMR). The scanning electron microscope with the help of an x-ray energy . dispersive analysis system will allow for \new instructional avenues in the physical and material sciences at Union.\ The SEM directly visualizes the surface of specimens at high magnifications as well as specimens too small for a light microscope. · The nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer is used for the analysis of the structure of chemical compounds using computer-intensive technology. Bronx Museum 'Displays Union Professor's Work The Bronx Museum of the Arts in New York City is presently displaying Alex Markhoff's sculpture in wood and metal through March 29 in the Jerry Clifford Community Gallery. Markhoff, a visiting professor of the arts, has created a work that consists of two ·large constructions of painted wood, which are ac- tually half scale m!Jdels, and five vertical variations in welded stainless steel. The sculpture pieces meaiSure from five to ten feet tall. The wooden GERMAN LANGUAGE TABLE every Friday 12:30 - 1 :30 p.m. Hale House models are planned to be done in steel and concrete for a large outdoor project. $6.613 In Financial Aid Programs Goes Unclaimed $6.6 billion in scbolarships, · · fellowships, grants, and loans went unclaimed last year • because no one even knew about them. And contrary to ,popular belief, 80 .percent of these · awards from the private sector . do not require financial need as a basis. Dan Cassidy, founder of the ·. National Scholarship Research Service, suggests that students interested should simply talk to the Financial Aid Office. Most · applications for these private- sector financial aid programs · · require interviews and in~ · formation concerning academic and extracurricular activities. Palamountain Fore·sees ~'Vigoro11s Competition\ for Skidmore According to Skidmore College President Joseph C. Palamountain as a resUlt of the sharp decline in the number of lS..year ol<is across the United States competition among colleges ancf universities for students will become more vigorous. . . Skidmore preparing for the admissions' biittles is taking to heart George Keller's recent book Academic .Strategy: The Management Revolution in American Higher Education advises coneerrung new campus operations as well as ''in· ventive, competitive tactics.\ Palamountain, who Will be retiring at the end of this · academic y~ar, has overseen . what he calls Skidmore's climb up to the \big leagues. Nevertheless, he still feels that it is \the new kid on the block'' • · and has much further to go. · Under Palamountain' s leadership, Skidmore has seen . the additions of 46 buildings to the campus including the latest addition, the Bernhard Theatre. U.S.-Soviet Satellite Tele-Conference Slated for April Asatellite teleeonfer:ence with the Soviet Union, moderated · by Peter Jennings, iind a video taping examining the media and humiin ·rights in wartime, moderated by Robert MacNeil, will highlight the Center for · Comtnunication Spring 1987 • . program. In ad,dition, a full to meet leading communication professionals. Journalists in San Francisco and :Moscow will engage .in: a live dialogue via satellite during the \USA-USSR Spacebridge: The Role of the Media in Current Relations\ on April 8, The intercontinental satellite teleconference will· -be downlinked to 25 universities in the United States and will .be ' seen at various sites in the Soviet Union as well. The teleconference will allow leading journalists in the Soviet Union and the United States to discuss the· reporting of news events and government Policies in their respective countries and how their profession im- pacts . worldwide perceptions. • seminar and workshop scJ:ledule · · Elections.for. Editor in. will be sponsored by the Center • Chle_ f ·a. r_e .· b. e. in_g·. :he_ I. d over the next three months. The .. Center for Communication is a ' Tuesday; March 10th·· nonprofit organization that . at 430 P9M., lhird. provides opportunities f()r · Floor Old Chape~. nni'ilP.rl~ltv students and We'd rather tie you up for a couple of hours than see you tie yourself down to a bad career decision. That's why we're holding our Jordan Marsh Presentation-and why you owe it to yourself to stop by and find out more about New England's dominant department store._ Come get the inside story on our Executive Training Program, con- sidered·one of the finest in the country, and on how to become a successful executive in today's fast- paced, competitive retail industry. So whether you're a senior looking to start your career on the right track, or an underclassman tracking down a fuH-time, paid internship, do yourself a favor and check out the Jordan Marsh presentation. - ·lfs one evening you're bound to remember. TUESDAY. THE JORDAN MAR PRESENTATION MAheu ' u · ., . rr 10 riALE Hou LoJM_er L . . SE oun 6:30.PivJ .ge ,_! 1 ' j.:l •I -~

,, .. I j ,, •I I CONCORDIENSIS, Match 5~ 1987 - - ' . PageS WRUC Elections Usher In New Board· '· ' Tatge Retains G.M. P ·•t• os1~ ton ByMlCIIAEL Co SILBERSTEIN One of the headliners oc- cupying Carnegie Hall, once it is completed, will be our tremendm,Js radio ~tation, WR,UC. The · station will be moving fr~m. its current boxed- in headquarters in Old·Chapel to .a spacious, well equipped studio on the fom111 floor of Carnegie, overlooking the Science & Engineering Bullding. · a11d tapedeck for DJ,s to ree()rd albums at their leisure, .this is designed. to cut do:wn on rece>rd theft; a news room whiclt will • include. sections for an AP : machine ~:~nd .· IPiQ.r!J_phones; a · l()unge for DJ's and exec\ltive · hoard meetings; and execlitive offices with telephones for e\'ecutive board members. Amongthe .changes. in w;RUC, will be a few new faces ()Jl its · executive board. Elections for · the positions of · General WRUC 89.7 fm STEREO / . beat Rich Aguinaldo fe>r the · position of Technical DL:rector. By a similar .margin, Jared Blume surpassed Jay McCarthy for Business Manager. Blume . atteaded the Connecticut School · · af Br{)adcasting in 1985, knows a lot about broadcasting md how it operat~s, and he is co1:1fident he can 'fill the positi011 well. : It'inally, the offh:e of· Promotional Director will again be occupied by Kelley Pad:. She · . will work on WRUC' s: off· campus image more aad will try to make ·bwnper-spickers · available. Conrad Tatge '88, was re-elected General Manager ofWR UC atthe 'elec:.tion meeling Monday night Assoc. Dean Ro:bert Massa Comments On H'is Experiences At Union s:: .... E Cf) i'O v u (I) .0 (I) ~ ,... .0 ~ 0 s:: a. The move itself will not take Manager, Prog['am Manager, place until June or July. and Technical. Direc:tor, BusinEss according· to CQnrad Tatge, Manager~. and Promotional WRUC's General' Manager, · . Director were. held on Mo11day, . \the st<!tion V'Yill' hopefully :be on . March 2, and the results were as the air by tlle start of school · follows: In tile General next September.\ The station • Manager Department, in- will be located at its Cl!rrent . cum:bent Conrad Tatge headquarters until June and .. maintained his position by a 23- willremain Ollthe air Wltil then. ' 19 margin I()Ver :!\llton Students W.~ll package . S.:rdanovic. Tatge is curretttly everything upbu:t the moving of . • involved ' with t:be moving equipment and bo:Kes Will be · · process and will continue .lJis taken care <if by a hired m()ving . title with leadership. For company, tl1e mQney for wbich Program Manager. there 1vas a wiD come from the W:RUC three-way race between \Fast•• budget. . Ed Koval, Gary Cornick, llllc:l Coatlnued from page 1 that ''there is.a national: search .for a new assistant'~ who, Mas:~a added, will be evaluated and,chosenb;y Dean ofSt11dents, Joseph Marnmola. ''Hopefully, the -college can find someone who can assume the respon- sibility prior to the end of the 1986-1987 year,\ Massa added. · The position of Associate Vice President of Academic .Affairs was a position that was newly created for Massa. It eombines three areas of experience that Massa has had during his fowteen years as a college administrator. He w-ill be resttonslble for admissions, financial aid, orientatio:n~ 'and freshmen advising, alortg with other related programs.. Said Mas:;a, \Trinity lil£.e all colleges of its caliber, recognized the need fDr an in~ dividual who has had ex- perience as an admissions of- ficer, financial aid officer, and student affairs officer. My job will be to oversee a continuing three year process from the time a high school junior is beginning to think about college up to the time when they finish their freshman year.\ Massa went on to say that the purpose behind such a program is to promote admissions to the college as well as help freshmen through their first year of college, a time when the at· triti()fl rate is the highest for colleges. share~ What it was designed to do was in crease the management of fraternities and sororities by und~rgraduates in cooperation with their Greek alumni and the College. Orientation, while it has retained its cbar-acter of a fun time for new students, has also become more :academically oriented in the past several years.\ The new stlldio was designed incumbent John McCann. by a former .general manager Cornick was elilninated in ·the and accorditlg to Tatge, \He first rmmd. of votes and in the has done a v~ry- good job with run-off election, Koval became the planning.\ . the new Program Manager by a _InCluded ia WRUC's changes · 24~17 vote. He will try to are: Alphabetizing all records pl!blicize more the momwg instead of having- them listed sh()WS and lunchtime shows. By chronologically; a turntable .. ·. a wide .margin, Jim Circinciolle . . -- . Decision On Type of Lottert Sy:,stem Seen As Choice Between. ln1ust•ces Co11tinued fl'()m.page 2 or living off-campus his senior year with some .buys out of the house.'' In addition, Representati:ve to the Academic Affairs Comcil Gavin Morton posed . a case of a parent preferring that his son or daughter not live in the house. However, Seni()r ·Represen- . tative John Z:llk opposed this by. saying, ''Eefore a student, male or female, join:s a fraternal DrganiZation, a IQt of things have to be considered. A lot of decisim1s have to be made, and _this will have to be one .of the decisiO:ns .they'll have to weigh.\ . Discrepen~y li~s in the exact percentage ClCCllpaney should be raised, if it l!hoUld be _raised at all. A member· of Delta Chi PQinted out hC>w easy it .if!• for an · occupancy level to·dip bel<Jw the 95 percent level, because students go Atfuooad. . Se.veral students said thatJt is just tbat change . of pereentage, ,Qf Se:Veral $udents in (IRe 1JoUSe, multiplied by aU existing · houses, that collld solve the problem of independent housing. · \The .administration is very hurt' by an image as Greek · busters.\ Jeff McF'arland President of I.F.C. Each fraternity c~tlld get eager membersto live thEre:. or more actively recruit in· dependents to Uve in their h()use. Moss added, \I thinll: it's pretty safe to say, .becalUle I've been through this experiellce myself, and many of my friens . did, that in general you ~n find that most independents do not want to go Jive in a fraternity.\ A vote of the Student :Forum members of 11 \yes\ and three abstentions forwarded all of the points made at the meeting to the .SAC, and requested that it re-evaluate tile 95 per(ent oc- cupancy rate. Then a:nother vote, which excluded til~ clause ()n fraternities, reflected the students in favor of the proposal by 13 to 12. Mo~:~s reminded those present that this was D()t a fair representation of the &tudent body,. and that a poll ~ht be taken on campus in the ftrture. Concluding with what M01untain said, \It's more or less an evaluation, a weighing, <Jf which is dofug the greater injll:!ltice.\ \I have enjoyed Union • this college combines an intelligent and oftentimes vibrant student body with dedicated faculty and the financial resources to affect substantive cha~ge.\ ·--Dean Massa n[assa's career as a C()llege administrator includes working at three institutions, all within New York State: CollUilbia University in 1973, Colgate University in 1975, and Union in March of 1980 where has he has spent half of his career. Com- menting on his experience here, Massa said, \I have enjoyed UniDn the most so far in my career. This college combines what I consider to be an. in· telligent and oftentimes vibrant student body· with dedicated faculty and the financial resources to affect substantive change and improvement . . . I'm going to miss Union a lot. 1' i! like to think that I've made some contributions.'' Among some ot the contributions that Massa is particularly proud of are his work :On I.F~C. and his work on Orientation. 1 'The Strategic Plan that was adopted by the I.F.C. and the Greek AlUiruli in 1984 was an im- portant contribution that we all Massa added that he would like to thar1k tile students with whom he has worked: \Par- ticularly, I'd like to thank the students Wh() ha\Ve worked on orientation, and fraternity· and sorority leaders-the I.F.C. bears little resemblance to what it was five years ago. It's aggressive, val11a:ble training workshops are a success and really have taken .a system· wide approach t()l Greek life on campus.'' :Massa also com· mented on his gratitude to Concordiensis. '~Coneordiensis has been valuable to me. When I first came to Union, I was head of financial aid. When the first Reagan Administration was threatening cuts ill financial aid programs, I co11ld not have got a message out to the students regarding the seriousness of those threats, qUite honestly, without the help of Con- cordiensis. F11rthermore, in the last four years that I've oc- cupied this position, Con- cordiensls ltas lleen helpful publishing Parents' Weekend schedules, the Orientation issue, and ways to promote the image of Greelt life on cam- pus.\ Massa concluded, saying \I'm leaving Union with a lot of good feelings. And I'd like to add that I have promised myself that the ahrtost two years ·Of suffering along with everyone else on campus will not be in vain. I will be here for the opening ceremonies of the college center this coming fa,ll.'' This artfcle is !tie first in a ;eries of articles written to help you an~wer some of ~he ·q~esli<ms you may have regarding the con~ectiora of your personal cDmputer to the VAX Cluster via the dormrtory com·pu:ter network. We ~~><Ill talk abouttne equipmerat you Will need to hav~ and h<~w to set up 1hts equipment. In following ar.tlcles, We will give \'OU suggestions Oil how 1<? trovbleshoot your equipment, where and h.ow :to get 11elp wnen yo~r 1roubl.eshooting· efforts fall, and how to effectrveiY 1.,1se your personal computer a~· a VAX terminal with the help of thoe ap- -propriate tertl1'iflal ernul~tiorl software. \'oct Tap Converter .. t11e Mml Tap converter Is a device which will allow·you to connect your ·RS232 interface to the modular data line poa-t· (lhe one on yo~r wall). You can buy a Mod Tap Converter. at the Bo*stCJre ($9.50). Before you run down, however, cfleck your RS232 Interface 21nd see whether YQU have a Ill ale (25 pins) or.aJemale J25 mini-sockets) .fnlerface, If you have a male lllierlace, you'll need a-female Mod Tap; If you nave a female interface, you'll neecl a male Mod Tap. COULD Bl;: DISASTEROUS!!! YOU COULD SHORT OUT YOUR EQUIPMENT.) . THE EQUIPmENT . In addition to -your microcomputer, you w.lll neeclto rnake sure YOI1have thE!se three es.sential pieces of equipment befo;e you can connect to :the VAX c lustel\. oa staradar.tf RS232 25-pin communications potf.on your microc:ompu·ter oa Mod tap converter ocornmunlc.atons erminal emulation softwa~e RS232 25-pin cDii'l m unicatlons·port Not every. microcomputer 'has a built· in communiction~ port. !f you have such amachine, the first thing you will need to buy IS a ser1al In- terface aard. If you can, get a card with a 25·pin RS232 Interface. Your dealer .should. be able to give yqu advice on which card is best for your machine. · . 1 Many micrOtComputers, however, come with a built-hi commu~rca lens pr>rt. If yours.<ioes, you need to make sure that the communications i)>Ort (also reietrea to as the serial,por.t) is a standa~d RS232 25,pin port. In the event that you hav.e a communications port .which is not a \standard\ RS232 25-pln.port. (ex: Appple Mac, IBM AT, etc.h you'll have to pour- chase a cal:Jie (generallY a .modem table specific for your machlr.~e) Vihlch can piLJg Iii to your cortlmuflicatlon .port with one end and h&$ a RS232 25-plh lnlerfi'l!C:e on the other. Com municatlons/toerminal emulation software 'l'oor.f.inal piece of equipment is a communications/terminal emulation soflware package (unless you own .a micrJJc-omputer wiltl bui.lt-in ter· rninal emulation like the DEC Rainbow.) C(}rnmunlcations software induces your micrClcomputer to send 'data' to ,ffle communications port (aficl hence to .the VAX). The terminal emui<Jtion software translates the 110tHext information sent between the VAX a11d your microcom1nller so that both madhtries can efficiently talk: to each other. com· rnunications/termonal emulation packages.afEoften. Integrated into one l)ackage, and since the VAX is a widely used minicomputer, you should 11ot have too much trouble finding a commercial· or public domain (free) communicaiions/lerminal emulation package that runs on your 111acfline. Ask for a communication package ·witll a VT100 emulation. If you have an IBM PC (or clone) or an A!)ple Mac, and need a com rnunications package, you Ciln get a copy of. Ke~mit, a popular and prevaslve soflwai:e package that is in the pvb lie; domain. Just bring in a formatted blank d-iskEtte and ask for a copy irom the consultant at the Consultant's Desk in-the Office o.f Computer Se-rvices. Setting Up Your Equipment To physically .hcook UP your microcompLJter .to the data port in your r:oon'l, att.acli the R.S232 end Of the Mod Taptothe·RS232 communications inti!rlace on your microcomputer. Having d!line so, insert the mcdular j:Jiug attached t9 ·thE·other end of the Mod· Tall· into the data line pori (the bot!Dm modular j!tck .•• the top jack is for>llle telephone. Warning DO IIJOT PL.UG YOU~ MACHINE INTO THE lELEPHONE JACK, IT Now run your communications/termin;31 emulaliora package. and set up your communi<:atlons port to tr ansmlt with the follow ing·c haracter is tics' · Baud·rate: 4UOO Data Bits: 8 Parity: NCJrae Xon/Xoff: Enabled Stop Bits: ·1 Connecting To The VAX Once all of your equipment is setup, you are ready·tos.ign ora to the VAX Cluster. Hit ttie RETURN or ENTER key a few times. to signal that you are ready to start communicating with the VAX. Assurn;.ng everything Is working correctly, you should see something simi I ar to the following display on your screen; Port31590: No connection xtcommand: Respond to the XICommand prompt by typing: CC>i'JNECT TED to indicate that you want to be connected to TED on the Vl!l>.X Cluster. If you wan.t to .log on to another machine (eg. SY, G EN, GA.R. or ALl. you should, bf course, indicate.such at this point. Hit the RETURN .key several times until you see the following messages: Po~t:M687: connected toTED via 246751» THEODORE VAX.ll/705 Username: . ·After you respond to this last prompt by typing In your account nam~. you. will br prompted for your password. A correct response tlere w•ll allow you accesstotheVAX. . A copy of the \VAX ·Ciuster Handbook\ is avallal)le at the Bookstore for $3.25. 'rhis.hanclbook contalr'1s lnforniatiDn which should be helpful to ou in utilizing the VAX. Look for our article-on \Troubleshooting Your Equipment\ in the next issue.

Page (j FEATURES Presidential Memoirs By ALEX STEPHENS When it comes time for Ronald Reagan to write his memoirs, which he will inevitably do, how will he allude to the recent fiasco that has befallen his administration? There are a variety of ap- proaches he could takej he might say it was all for the preservation of democracy, flavored with his style of rhetoric, or he might stat\e that he was never really aware of the entire ordeal, which may not be far from the truth. Yet, he will probably use the Hollywood Wives style and this ex:cerpt could end up in the Iranscarn chapter: \Well it's about time I setthe record straight on the phenomenon that blasted my ship oat of the water. Of all the names it has been called, Iranscarn, Contragate,. the Ollie North mini-series, I think I like GipperGate the best, it just seems more me. Now, as far as I can remember ( \r~member\ will be italicized in the tex:t) the whole thing started when I mentioned that those boys in the NSC seemed to be getting a little bored with their jobs. Sure Lybia was fun and Greneda was one hell of a weekend but there was nothing long lasting that they could sink their little teeth into. And what's the point of having the thing anyway, if you're not going to use it. the Contras. You know I'm amazed he tbought of that. Or was it North? Don't ask me why those Iranians never realized they were overcharged, what they don't know won't hurt them. That was in November 1985, or was it Oetober? It was fall because I remember watching Monday Night Football with Frank GiffoJ.>d and AI Michaels. It was a great game, the Rams iJeat the Bears with a last .second field goal. Well, anyway, 1 sort of fargot about it, can you imagine, and the nex:t thing I remember Meese, who I thought was a loyal fan, started ranting and raving about the Constitution, of all things, and that I had broken the law. \I would just like to say that I had no idea who North was at the time. He always looked official so I .never bothered to ask why hE was sneaking around the White House at ungodly hours of the night and scaring Nancy out of her nightie. Well, to try and settle the whole thing I let the Tower Commission take over the in- vestigation, even though I had bad everything Wlder control. But I had no idea they were going to ask me to testify. Nancy told me one version and Regan anothEr so of course I was going to get flustered when the camera was on me it's not like making movies, but if they do make a mini-series out of it I'd love to play myself. That would be the tiltimate role, I think.\ CONCORDlENSIS, Mnrcch 5,_ I fJ&7 . Philosophy Foru~m: The :Philoso·phy of Pr,ivilege ByJlMMANLY What is a privilege.? Certainly tq g() to college is one. To be ai;Jle to '\think and act freely i~ another. Th.ese..,...a,re great privileges t<> be ·~ur.e~ there are not rnany eitiz-ens of·t~ world who can .enjoy them. How\lk> 'W~ justify this privilege? Is Uti/ im,possible? We (most of us at Union) were bor!l in the United States, and from-this part. of the largest and most influential cultural f()rce in the world today. Yet the U.l;. is ~largely a misundersto·od quantityto the .. rest of the wor-ld. This comes from both <»ox country's immaturity and it:; newly foWtd power; Since W.W\. II America has b~en desperately seelting its place as a sta,lwart of freedolll., democracy and opportunity- offering its llelp wherever tbese causes were in need of ()Ur powerful assistance both ,at home and abroad. What has this to do w~tb privilege? ln some ways very little, but in one. important and relevant way (namely the American college student~ tt says quite a bit. The Americ:an student finds him•herself in ae amazing position. We, due to an accepted, and not unique, feature of ()ur country's culture are to become tomorro1WS 'leaders', ()r eve-n 'opinion makers'. This is a privilege, no two ways about it, by the very definition of the word. To be 111 years old and to be handed a privilege of such high order for no more reason tha11 proficiehcy in high school, and living in an. environinent where college was a viabl'e op.- portunity, seems. both un- believably lud~y and Wlfair. Yet this is the system, right or wrong, as it appears ~o us as students of the 1980's. The next step in this con- ception of privilege, .after ac- cepting .its. very rear ex:istence in our lives, is what to do with this incredible boon of good forttme. It would appear that there are two options.: 1) To accept this privilege, and being very human~ and therefore .self interested, do all we can to hold on to it,. and ensure it for our children. ~} To squander the privilege. !11te second option is much more interesting, for . it takes many forms and . its results are much less clear than the fir~. If one .is to squander thjs privilege. they are to reject it and its sabsequent benefits. Thus by denying a system of privilege one denies h~ in- terests in obvious ways, and further cvmplicates the · structure of society. For if one is to not make use of a privilege, what is to be thought hut that he-she is a f(lol who interrupts the progression of his coWitry. It must be accepted that most people would see the benefits of , option No. l and the wastefulness of No. 2. Yet in any definitfon of privilege one must think that for any such pesitive quality there is a return cost. In other, more economic terms, \there is no such thing as a free lunch.\ To not pay this return cost is to. A forbidding campus. surprisingly, do th~t which turns out to be more vasteful and irresponsible th~n option No. 2. For nonpaYJilemt equals, ,in this case, ungratefll!hess to a society that has given JClU much cause for · thanks. Ungratefulness .is· to .faiiil to pay your society back for its gift of privilege; to deny ~its needs, concerns and in)prop:ri~ties. It is to become mor:ally and socially disin,terestetl, and to ignore that which rightfully stares you in the faco(), It is a great wrong to do IJiis, it is irresponsibility pcrsC)nified. What then is to btl d(Jne? Pay yonr·· s6.eiety back; CJare, get involved, understan.d~ tolerate and try to h~lp. . N!.la~e the privilege one. of {)l;Stinction Where 1;1ll may share IE it. Take your position of power .ct~d use it, not just for your e:t~d$; but for the enjoyment of t;lle world- don't be .selfish. In s]l()rt, im- prove conditions tbrCJugb ac- tiQns, we know we call, we're privileged. Letters ... Continued . from page 10 apply, that is their own prerogative. But, if students who truly want to g:() abroad cannot because other students undeservedly take primrity over them, then there may b~ a flaw in the system of selectL()ll• These juniors who have .. J>eett denied the chance to go ne~ year, ·simply said, will' never go because they will no i(HJger be here. The so]lb()Jllores, however, can reap1Jlr next year. We find this situatio11 to be v~ry distressing. We .ctre not criticizing the Terms Abroad program. Rather, it is the selection process that sEems to be exclusively unfair. If Union is going to continue tota:({e pride in this program and qiJh<>ld its claim of a:vaUabilit) tu Union students, then it appt!llars that the criteria for accept;:mce be clarified so that some: students (like the ones we ar~ familiar with) will not bother tCJ waste their time in applyin~ ()nly to get rejected on see:rnlngly in· valid grounds. Sirlcerely, Sarah Calderini lnf:li:\ld Koch nThen McFarlane suggested the idea of supplying arms to the Lybians by selling U.S. Bonds to the Iranians and . . . wait, tllat's not right. He said we should sell anns to the soviets in ex:change for ... No, maybe it was arms to the PLO, wait that couldn't be right. I know he said something about arms. Ob yeah, we should sell arms t<J the Iranians through Israel and with the profits we'd get we could clandestinely arm Watson Winners To Be An.n6unced The Botto111 ;Line Is Back The Watson Travelling Fellowship provides. graduating ~enior witb $11,000 to fund one year of structured tra rei anywhere. in the world (outside North America). Founded in 1961, as a trust by Mrs. Watson A performance of in honor e>f her late husband, A nton Chekhov's it's now in it$ 18th year, 1,230 fellowships have been awarded \The Three Sisters'' with stip.ends totalling · 10,202,634. The fellowship by the Perishable provides students with the Theatre will be held · · opportunity t() explore special at th .L\ Nott M· .. em· 0 . ri·aJ.. interests. Looking for integrity, \ leadership potential for on March 6, 1987 at creative achie.vement and excellence with a chosen field, 8:00 p.m .. Tickets judges award students from available at the fifty small liber-al arts colleges 0 d with the ()pportunity of a life ticket booth, l time. However, to make sure Cbapel 1st floor. the fellows do not treat their year as they would a term · Tickets for. Students abroad~ they are reqQired to are. $3.00 send quarterdly repostartst one ttheirn· progress an · a. em n o Otb re . $5 00 how tbey spent their money. · ers a • Good luck to Union's four Watson Fellowship finalists. They are David Friedman, Dan Gorden, Brian Hughes and .Susan Knoll;. · David is. a Political Sciellcc major, and has pr()posed to travel to Israel and Australia to meet and Interview children .o:f Hol()caust survivors. There has beeit a lot ()f attention paid to survivors themselves, but David would like to find <Jut what abQ'Ut the experience is being passed to futtLre generations. Dan, a Psychology maj10r, wants to see how culture ~ reflected in sport.ln particular-, he plans to travel to Japan amd · Cuba to observe the game o-i baseball. He wants to .see no-t only how the game is play~ll, but especially the way fan:s res}>(lnll to the game anll it~ pl~yets. Br-ian majors in Modern Languages~ and has alretuly lived in Germany. His plan is te travel through Europe a11d Soutll ASia· f-ollowing the f~t­ steps of ·Gil~ atJ.thor Her- mllllll Hesse. Along the way, he wUl read the works that Hesse wrote . in t}ach . location. In German,. of> course; · . Susan is-an Economics maj~Dr-, · and is particularly in\erested in the roles of women irt the labor force. She wants to visit developing. and developed nations· in the Far East to ex:amine roles of women workers there. She wants to see whether the women of Japan, China and Korea are foUowing the same patterns that Western women followed. :mach. year the Watson Foundation awards 70 Fellowships to graduates of approximately 50 small liberal arts schools. Union has been one of those schools since 1969, the first year the awards were made. In the years since then, Union has come up with 25 winners. Coragratulations to David, DaQ, Brian and Susan for being finalists, and. wish them Rll good l11ck in adding to Union's wintling total. By the way, Juniors, if you thirik you woiJ}d like to apply for a Watson, Jteep alert .. There will be an iilfonnational meeting sometime during. Spring term. .If you can't wait,. see Prof. Klein in the Economics Department. And Bette.r· .· Than Ever Ctl/1/n T11lk ,$low tr· ·~8·97-WRUC /

Page6 FEATURES ''6-u}, ~VI T~r..j(rJ :f w\.o. I :r .So·d -:r ~'-\ s I fv\e \\'+ ,-+ • Presidential Memoirs By ALEX STEPHENS When it comes time for Ronald Reagan to write his memoirs, which he will inevitably do, how will he allude to the recent fiasco that has befallen his administration? There are a variety of atr proaches he could take; he might say it was all for the preservation of democracy, flavored with his style of rhetoric, or he might stafe that he was never really aware of the entire ordeal, which may not be far from the truth. Yet, he will probably use the Hollywood Wives style and this excerpt could end up in the Iranscam chapter: \Well it's about time I set the record straight on the phenomenon that blasted my ship out of the water. Of all the names it has been called, Iranscam, Contragate, the Ollie North mini-series, I think I like GipperGate the best, it just seems more me. Now, as far as I can remember (\remember\ will be italicized in the text l the whole thing started when I mentioned that those boys in the NSC seemed to be getting a little bored with their jobs. Sure Lybia was fun and Greneda was one hell of a weekend but there was nothing long lasting that they could sink their little teeth into. And what's the point of having the thing anyway, if you're not going to use it. the Contras. You know I'm amazed he thought of that. Or was it North? Don't ask me why those Iranians never realized they were overcharged, what they don't know won't hurt them. That was in November 1985, or was it October? It was fall because I remember watching Monday Night Football with Frank Gifford and Al Michaels. It was a great game, the Rams beat the Bears with a last second field goal. Well, anyway, I sort of forgot about it, can you imagine, and the next thing I remember Meese, who I thought was a loyal fan, started ranting and raving about the Constitution, of all things, and that I had broken the law. \I would just like to say that I had no idea who North was at the time. He always looked official so I never bothered to ask why he was sneaking aroillld the White House at Wlgodly hours of the night and scaring Nancy out of her nightie. Well, to try and settle the whole thing I let the Tower Commission take over the in- vestigation, even though I had had everything W1der control. But I had no idea they were going to ask me to testify. Nancy told me one version and Regan another so of course I was going to get flustered when the camera was on me it's not like making movies, but if they do make a mini-series out of it I'd love to play myself. That would be the ultimate role, I think.\ CONCORDIENSIS, March 5, 1987 Philosophy Foru~m: The Philosophy of Privilege By J.IM MANLY What is a privilege? Certainly to. gg to college is me. To be able to ''think and act freely is anothet. These-,-.a,re great privileges to be ·sur.e, there are net many citizens of'~~ world who can enjoy thein. How~ we justify this privHege? Is thi~ impassible? We (most of us at Union) were born in the United States, and from this part of the largest and most influential cultural force in the world today. Yet the U.S. is largely a misundersteod quantity to the rest of the world. This comes froin· both our country's immaturity and its newly foWld power. Since W.W. II America has been desperately seeking its place as a stalwart of freedom, democracy and opportwlity- offering its help wherever these causes were in need of our powerful assistance both at home and abroad. What has this to do with privilege? In some ways very little, but in one important and relevant way (namely the American college student) it says quite a bit. The American student finds hirn·herself in an amazing position. We, due to an accepted, and not unique, feature of our country's culture are to become tomorrows 'leaders', or even 'opinion makers'. This is a privilege, no two ways about it, by the very definition of the word. To be 18 years old and to be handed a privilege of such high order for no more reason than proficiency in. high school, and living in an envirornnent Where college was a viable op- portunity, seems both una believably lucky and unfair. Yet this -is the sy-stern, right or ':vrong, as it appears to us as students of the 1980's. The next step in this con- ception of privilege, after ac- cepting its very real existence in our lives, is what to do with this incredible boan ,of good ~ortUile. It would appear that there are two options: 1) To accept this privilege, and being very human, and therefore self interested, do all we can to hold on to it, and ensure it for our children. 2) To squander the privilege. The second option ts much more interesting, for it takes many forms and its results are much less clear than the first. If one is to squander this privilege they are to reject it and its subsequent benefits. Thus by denying a system of privilege one denies his in- terests in obvious ways, and further complicates the structure of society. For if one is to not make use of a privilege, what is to be thought but that he-she is a fool who interrupts the progression of his country. It must be accepted that most people would see the benefits of option No. 1 and the wastefulness of No. 2. Yet in any definition of privilege one must think that for any such positive quality there is a return cost. In other, more economic terms, ''there is no such thing as a free lilllch.\ To not pay this return cost is to, A forbidding campus surprisingly, do that which turns out to be more wasteful and irresponsible than option No.2. For nonpayment equals, in this case, ungratefulness to a society that has given you much cause for thanks. Ungratefulness is to fail to pay your society back for its gift of privilege; to deny its needs, concerns and improprieties. It is to become morally and socially disinterested, and to ignore that which rightfully stares you in the face. It is a great wrong to do this, it is irresp<msibility personified. What then is to be done? Pay your society back; care, get involved, understand, tolerate and try to help. Make the privilege one of distinction where aU may share in it. Take your position of power and use it, not just for your ends, but for the enjoyment of the world- don't be selfish. In short, im- prove conditions through ac- tions, we know we can, we're privileged. Letters ... Contlnued from page 10 apply, that is their own prerogative. But, if students who truly want to go abroad cannot because other students Wldeservedly take priority over them, then there may be a flaw in the system of selection. These juniors who have been denied the chance to go next year, simply said, will never go because they will no longer be here. The sophomores, however, can reapply next year. We find this situation to be very distressing. We are not criticizing the Terms Abroad program. Rather, it is the selection process that seems to be exclusively unfair. If Union is going to continue to take pride in this program and uphold its claim of availability to Union students, then it appears that the criteria for acceptance be clarified so that some students (like the ones we are familiar with) will not bother to waste their time in applyin~ only to get rejected on seemingly in- valid grom1ds. Sincerely, Sarah Calderini Ingrid Koch \Then McFarlane suggested the idea of supplying arms to the Lybians by selling U.S. Bonds to the Iranians and . . . wait, that's not right. He said we should sell arms to the soviets in exchange for . . . No, maybe it was arms to the PLO, wait that couldn't be right. I know he said something about arms. Oh yeah, we should sell arms to the Iranians through Israel and with the profits we'd get we could clandestinely arm Watson Winners To Be Announ:ced The Bottom Line· Is Back A performance of Anton Chekhov's \The Three Sisters\ by the Perishable Theatre will be held at the Nott Memorial on March 6, 1987 at 8:00 p.m •• Tickets available at the ticket booth, Old Chapel 1st floor. Tickets for Students are $3.00 Others are $5.00 The Watson Travelling Fellowship provides graduating senior with $11,000 to fund one year of structured tra •el anywhere in the world (outside North America). FoW1ded in 1961, as a trust by Mrs. Watson in honor of her late husband, it's now in its 18th year, 1,230 fellowships have been awarded with stipends totalling 10,202,634. The fellowship provides students with the opportunity to explore special interests. Looking for integrity, leadership potential for creative achievement and excellence with a chosen field, judges award students from fifty small liberal arts colleges with the opportunity of a life time. However, to make sure the fellows do not treat their year as they would a tenn abroad, they are required to send quarterly reports on their progress and a statement on how they spent their money. Good luck io Union's four Watson Fellowship finalists. They are David Friedman, Dan Gorden, Brian Hughes and Susan Knoll. David is a Political Science major, and has proposed to travel to Israel and Australia to meet and interview children of Holocaust survivors. There has been a lot of attention paid to survivors themselves, but David would like to find out what about the experience is being passed to future generations. Dan, a Psych()logy major, wants to see how culture is reflected in sport. In particular, he plans to travel to Japan and Cuba to observe the game of baseball. He wants to see not only how the game is played, but especially the way fans respond to the game and its pl~yers. Brian majors in Modem Languages, and has already lived in Germany. His plan is to travel through Europe and South Asia following the foot- steps of German author Her- mann Hesse. Along the way, he will read the works that Hesse wrote in each location. In German, of course. Susan is an Economics major, and is particularly interested in the roles of women in the labor force. She wants to visit developing and developed nations in the Far East to examine roles of women workers there. She wants to see whether the women of Japan, China and Korea are following the same patterns that Western women followed. Each year the Watson Foundation awards 70 Fellowships to graduates of approximately 5() small liberal arts schools. Union has been one of those schools since 1969, the first year the awards were made. In the years since then, Union has come up with 25 winners. Congratulations to David, Dan, Brian and Susan for being finalists, and wish them all good luck in adding to Union's winning total. By the way, Juniors, if you think you would like to apply for a Watson, keep alert. There will be an informational meeting sometime during Spring term. If you can't wait,.see Prof. Klein in the Economics Department. And Better Than Ever CDIIIn Talk Show 1:r '897-WRUC I' ' I' ' i' ' 1 i , . . ,

/ CONCORDIENSJS, March 5, 1987 Page7 FEATURES Poet William Humphrey Speaks By MARJORIE HOFFER William Humphrey, the author of several novels and short stories, ·$poke last Thursday evening in the Humanities Lounge following a session earlier that .afternoon. A native Texan, Hmnphrey's southern accent gave both readings a homey feeling. Rather than the u~:~ual af· ternoon's questi()n and answer hour, Hwnphrey admitted that he rarely re-read his novels and confessed he probably would not be able to recall specific infotmation about \.Hostages to Fortune\ (the novel that most of the audience was familiar · with). Instead, Humphrey read C! ptepared speeth. Ironically, the speech was pl\()bably more interesting than an impromptu mon()louge would have been. He described W·riting as natural to bir:n, and felt that observing life closely, something he is critizedfor, is a benefit of being a writer. . Hin'p.phrey enjoys writing, he finds the agonizing aspects challenging, and modestly announced he wrote because he was \good at it\. A gifted author and specifically . a wonderful storyteller, Humphrey read a very short story about an Italian emmigrant Gina, whose character was based upon one of Humphrey's .housekeepers. The unhappy saga of this women's life in the United States was toucbingly Wt:,itten. Sometimes auth(}rS are more successful writing events they are familiar with, but Hum- phrey has the rare talent of being able to live vicariously and tell of people he has never come in contact with. Although when reading ''Hostages to Fortune\ it is clear Humphrey is a fisherman and many THE ASIAN STUDIES CLUB meets weekly forlwnch Friday 12:3.0 Hale House COMING. IN THE . SPRING ... ·.Waiting rt ~or t;jodot students who bad read the novel wondered if it was entirely biographical. The story of a man's reaction to his son's suicide was told so well that many were shocked to hear that Humphrey has no children. That even·ing, Humphrey .shared two more of his masterpieces; The first story he read, about a \human fly\ (a man climbing the walls of a building), was written in only four days. Humphrey said that he wrote the story in response to an ugly picture ofthe town hall in his Texan town. The next piece was · about a widowed woman who decided that she was going to strike it rich, ami hired a ~aff to dig up her back yard in search .for oil. A Captiv.ating Discussion on~ Founder,s Day QUite an entertainer, Hum- . phrey. underestimated his performance and offered those the chance to leave in between By EZRA SHERMAN would sit where I was sitting dinosaurs died off simply tales._ Whether· they were just and see a portrait of our current because their brains were too beingp61ite, or simply enjoying Last Wednesday, February president on the wall, and small for their bodies. This themselves, the audience 25, was the 192nd anniversary of wonder what he was like. concept fit J)erfectly with. the remained to hear all he bad to the founding of Union College. After the introduction by public's demand for simplicity. read. With his almost timid .As I sat in one of the pews, president Morris, guest lecturer As Professor Gould joked, his manner, listening t() Humphrey waiting for the Founders Day Stephen Jay Gould, of Harvard grade school textbook said that read was like hearing a .grand- Convocation to begin, I was University, spoke. He too is ''you can tell from the father read his grandchild taken with the sense of history taken with a sense of wonder at dinosaur's small head that it is bedtime stories. Humphrey was ot the school. On the walls of the transience of life. His lee- stupid.\ so skilled at his craft, that the Memorial chapel, portraits ture dealt with the myths that With more advanced one thing he would not have ·. hung of past Union college surround the extinction of palentological methods has been successful at was putting presidents. As I watched dinosaurs and the lessons to be come the disproving of these someone to sleep. On the other president Morris begin the learned from these myths. myths. Palentologists now hand, he doesn't have any opening ceremonies, I thought Twenty or thirty years ago, believe that dil'losaurs had the grandchildren anyway. - that someday another student J?aleontologists thought that right size brain for their bodies, _.....:._ .......... ~-· ..... ----~ ............... .:..:_ ____ ;:_ ______ _:;_ ___ ::--===:--.;__---,_that their body was constructed North and Poindexter: Book Two ~e~l~~~c~!:bl~o~~ ~: ByPAULSCHOP Earlier this term; M. Herman · Davis produced the definitive miniseries of 1987, That,. you may _recall, was ~orth and . Poindexter. Book one. While that miniseries was definitive, it still left more questions unanswered then it solved. Tha:t is why M. Herman }las returned to his VCR. By combining North and South: Book Two, with the NBC Nightly NeWS 3 he has solved those conundrtlii1S. The result is: North and Poin- dexter: Book Two. The miniseries opened in Nancy Reagan's White House office; The time was mid winter 1987. Former NBC director Robert McFarlane has been invited back to his old haunts for a visit with his ex- employer's current wife. ''Thanks for inviting me back, . Mrs. Reagan. And· thanks for this jar of Ron's jelly beans.\ \No problem, Bob. And please, call me Nancy.\ \OK he said as he sam.pled a jelly beap.. ''Yuk, these are horrible. :How can he stand eating these all day.\ \I don't know. I think they're better when you take twenty or thirty at a time.\ \I'll try that when I get home.\ The next day, the Washington Post's headline read that McFarlane had a~tempted, unsuccessfully, · to' · corinnit suicide. \0amn said Nancy after reading the headline. \I should have ordered those · purple ones that were. laced with cyanide.\ Nancy put down her newspaper. She turned to her desk,. where there was a .list of names. \Let's see. I've gotten rid of Casey, McFarlane, and nobody's talking to Poindexter these days. That . leaves only Regan and North.\ Just then the phone rang. It was former Chief of Staff Donald Regan. \Nancy I'm warning, you, for ~h~ last time, quit undermmmg my credibUity .\ \But Donald dear, I'm not doing that. ~ ou're doin,, such a good job of 1t yourself. . i'WllY you little . . • For two cents I'd ... \He thought better of describing what he would do for that impressive sum of money and hung up on the First Lady. Before he did, .though, the ~ound of a nickel hitting · a mahogany desk could have been :heard from his end of the line. \Why that little so and so. Well, that's it, he's out.\ She then reached into her desk and withdrew an 8\ x 10\ glossy of her husband and a letter. \Oh gee honey, you came by at a great moment. Would you mind changing the channel for me. I want to catch the last segment of Fame Fortune and Romance. Do you think that we could have Robin Leach over for dinner one night?'' said the President. \Sure dear. How about autographing tbis picture?\ \Well sure. It's great that my fans still love me.\ \And sign this letter that goes with it.\ She held the letter under-the picture, so as to hide what it said. \Oh you're such a good wife, and a publicist, too.\ \I know:\ ''Honey, what day is it?\ \Why it's Friday, dear.\ \Good. Do you think that we could watch Falcon Crest tonight. I saw a commercial for it this morning~\ \No\, said Nancy. \It's been pre-empted.\ . , \No(~gain.'IJlat'sJhe twenty ~eve'fitli rune tli'is season.- Row can anybody follow it?\ She took the picture and her letter and left the office. The picture was quickly discarded; The letter contained Regan's two-week notice. The scene then shifted. Instead of the White House, it was now some surreali$tic room. Oliver North was there, strapped to a polygraph machine. Seated next to him was John Tower, and a polygraph operator. North was already sweatipg, \OK Col. :North, Let's just answer a few questions to that establiSh a pattern.'' \All right, that . soWlds easy, I think.\ \Col. North, on what day of the month were. you born?'' \On on the fifth,\ he said as perspiration began to pour profusely down his forehead. \At the annual NSC father- . and-son day Olympics, what place did you and your son finish, overall?\. \We took fifth.'' · \I see a pattern,-colonel. Now for the tough questions. Did you ever rent offices, in the name of the contras, in Zurich?\ \Yes we rented a whole floor.'' \And which floor was that?\ \We took the fifth.\ By now, North's sweating had a serious affect on the machine. It shorted out, electrocuting North. He awoke to find himself at the Pearly Gates. St. Peter was waiting for him. \Ah Col. North. We've been reviewing the record of your temporal existence. We have decided to admit both you and Fawn Hall. You may live together, forever, in. physical bliss, if you come forth now and tell the truth about the Iran contra affair.'' \I ... I can't\ \Why not, my son?\ \I can't come fortli, because I have to take the fifth.\ At this, Oliver North bolted upright in his bed. He was drenched from a cold sweat, that had soaked all the way throUgh his mattress; into the box springs. He immediately got up, dressed, and drove to the • White House, where Nancy was · waiting for hiin. \I can't take it anymore. I · have to tell the truth.\ \Well if you feel you must, then you must. If you do, . though, I'll leak the 'Berkeley File' to the press. You know, the one with all the press clippings of you in your student radical days. I especially like the one with a picture of you burning an American flag.\ · . \Do it, nobody will believe you.\ \O~e you've reached a point now where whatever you say won't be believed, but whatever . the Post says about you will. n '\lbe Washibgton Post?'' \No the New York Post.\ With that thought, the show ended. It still left some questions unanswered, but at least now, we know why. lizards, and that their behavioral complexity might have been quite high. People find it hard to accept this new concept of the dinosaur. They ask, \why did mammals s\ll'Vive when the dinosaurs died off?\ The old myth provided the comforting theory that mammals have survived because they were superior to dinosaurs. The new theory suggests that, if the rise of the mammals did not cause the demise of the dinosaurs, then evolution is not a predic- table process. If it is not a pre.dictable process, than there is no guarantee that mammals, though the most intelligent of animals on earth, will be around forever. The AIDS epidemic has un- derscored the vulnerability of the human race. Professor Gould warned that simply trusting in the omnipotence of technicians, who have been wrong before, or believing that AIDS is a means of killing the unwanted element of the population, is the biggest threat to finding a cure to the disease. In closing, Professor Gould added that we must understand our position in nature and our subjection to its whims. AIDS is not a message of the way we should live, but a problem we must confront. If we use the intelligence that we are so proud of, than we can meet that threat.

i: ' l l ' ' ,• li ! j ' ' ,, i CONCORDIENSIS, Morch5, 1987 Page7 e FEATURES Poet William Humiphrey Speaks By MARJORIE HOFFER William Humphrey, the author of several novels and short steries, spoke last Thursday evening ~n the HllRlanities LoWlge following a session earlier that afternoon. A native Texan, Humphrey's .southern accent gave both readings a homey feeling. Rather than the usual af- ternoon's question and answer hour, Humphrey admitted that he rarely re-read his novels and confessed he probably would not be able to recall specific information about \Hestages to F()rtune\ {the novel that most of the audience was familiar with). Instead, Hwnphrey read a prepared speech. Ironically, the speech was probably more interesting tllan an impromptu rnonolouge would have been. He described writing as natural to him, and felt that oDserving life closely, something he is critized for, is a benefit of being a writer. Humphrey enjoys writing, he finds the .agonizing aspects challenging, and modestly amwunced he wrote because he was \good at it\. A gifted author and specifically a wonderful storyteller, Humphrey read a very short story about an Italian emmigrant Gina, whose character was based upon one of Humphrey's housekeepers. 'The unhappy saga of this women's life in the United States was touchingly written. Sometimes authors are more successful writing events they are familiar with, but Hum- phrey has the rare talent of being able to live vicariously and tell of people he has never come in contact with. Although when reading \Hostages to F ()rtune\ it is clear Humphrey is a fisherman and many THE ASIAN STUDIES CLUB meets weekly for lunch Friday 12:30 Hale House COMING IN THE SPRING .•.. Waiting !for (jodot students who had read the novel wondered ~f it was entirely biographical. The story of a man's reaction to his son's suicide was told' so well that many were shocked to hear that Humphrey has no children. That eveR.ing, Humphrey shared two more of his masterpieces. The first story he read, about a \human fly\ (a man climbing the walls of a buHding), was writteN in only four days. Humphrey said that he wrote the story in response to an ugly picture of the town. hall in his Texan toWR. The neKt piece was about a widowed woman who decided that she was going to strike it rich, anq hired a staff to dig up her back yard in search .·for oil. · . Quite an entertainer, Hum- . phrey underestimated his performance and offered those the chance to leave in between tales. Whether they were just being polite, or simply enjoying themselves, the audience remained to hear all he had to read. With his almost timid manner, listening to Hwnphrey read was like hearing a grand- father read his grandchild bedtime stories. Humphrey was so skilled at his craft, that the ene thing he would not have been. successful at was putting someone to sleep. On the other hand, he doesn't have any grandchildren anyway. - - '- '- QJ ~ - ro Cl. >- .0 0 +- 0 .c 0. A Captivating Discussion on Founder's Day By EZRA SHERMAN Last Wednesday, February 25, was the 192nd anniverselry af the founding of Union C()llege. As I sat in one of the pews, waiting for the Founders Day Convocation to begin, I was taken with the sense of history of the school. On the walls of Memorial chapel, portr-aits hung of past Union C()ilege presidents. As I watched president Morris begin the open.ing ceremonies, I tllought that someday another stlldent would sit where I was sitting and see a portrait of our current president on the wall, and wonder what he was like. After the introduction by president Morris, guest lecturer Stephen Jay Gould, of Harvard University, spoke. He too is taken with a sense of wonder at the transience of life. His lec- ture dealt with the myths that surround the extinction of dinosaurs and the lessons to be learned from these myths. Twenty or thirty years ago, paleontologists thought that dinosaurs died off simply because their brains were too small for their bodies. This concept fit i>erfectly with the public's demand for simplicity. As Professor Gould joked, his grade school textbook said that \you can tell from the dinosaur's small head that it is stupid.\ With more advanced North and Poindexter: Book Two palentological methods has come the disproving of these myths. Palentologists now believe that dinosaurs had the right size brain for their bodies, that their body was constructed in a practical fashion, that they were more warm-blooded than lizards, and that their behavioral complexity might have been quite high. ByPAULSCHOP Earlier this term, M. Herman Davis produced the definitive Ininiseries of 1987. That, you may recall, was North and Poindexter: Book One. While that miniseries was definitive, it still left more questions unanswered then it solved. That is why M. Herman has returned to his VCR. By combining North and South: Book Two, with the NBC Nightly News, he has solved those conundrums. The result is: North and Poin- dexter: Book Two. The miniseries opened in Nancy Reagan's White House office. The time was mid winter 1987. Former NBC director Robert McFarlane has been invited back to his old haunts for a visit with his ex- employer's current wife. \Thanks for inviting me back, Mrs. Reagan. And thanks for this jar of Ron's jelly beans.\ ''No problem, Bob. And please, call me Nancy.\ \OK he said as he sampled a jelly bean. \Yuk these are horrible. How can he stand eating these all day.\ \I don't know. I think they're better when you take twenty or thirty at a time.\ \I'll try that when I get home.\ The next day, the Washington Post's headline read that McFarlane had attempted, unsuccessfully, to commit suicide. \Danm said Nancy after reading the headline. \I should have ordered those purple ones that were laced with cyanide.\ Nancy put down her newspaper. She turned to her desk, where there was a list of names. \Let's see. I've gotten rid of Casey, McFarlane, and nobody's talking to Poindexter these days. That leaves only Regan and North.\ Just then the phone rang. It was former Chief of Staff Donald Regan. \Nancy I'm warning you, for the last time, quit undermining my credibility.\ ''But Donald dear, I'm not doing that. You're doing such a good job of it yourself.\ \Why you little . . . For two cents I'd ... \He thought better of describing what he would do for that impressive sum of money and hung up on the First Lady. Before he did, though:, the sound of a nickel hitting a mahogany desk could have been beard from his end of the line. \Why that little so and so. Well, that's it, he's out.\ She then reached into her desk and withdrew an 8\ x 10\ glossy of her husband and a letter. \Oh gee honey, you came by at a great moment. Would you mind changing the channel for me. I want to catch the last segment of Fame Fortune and Romance. Do you think that we could have Robin Leach over for dinner one night?\ said the President. \Sure dear. How about autographing this picture?\ \Well sure. It's great that my fans still love me.\ \And sign this letter that goes with it.\ She held the letter under the picture, so as to hide what it said. \Oh you're such a good wife, and a publicist, too.\ \I know.\ \Honey what day is it?\ \Why it's Friday, dear.\ \Good. Do you think tl!at we could watch Falcon Crest tonight. I saw a commercial for it this morning.\ \No\, said Nancy. \It's been pre-empted. \ \Not again. That's the t~enty seventh time this season. How can anybody follow it?\ She took the picture and her letter and left the offiC!e. The picture was quickly discarded. The letter contained Regan's two-week notice. The scene then shifted. Instead of the White Howe, it was now some surrealistic room. Oliver North was there, strapped to a polygraph machine. Seated next to him was John Tower, and a polygraph operator. North was already sweating. \OK Col. North, Let's just answer a few questions to establish a pattern.\ \All right, that . . . that sounds easy, I think.\ \Col. Nortb, on what day of the month were you born?\ \On on the fifth,\ he said as perspiration began to pour profusely down his forehead. \At the annual NSC father- and-son day Olympics, what place did you and your son finish, overall?\ \We took fifth.\ \I see a pattern, colonel. Now for the tough questions. Did you ever rent offices, in the name of the contras, in Zurich?\ \Yes we rented a whole floor.\ \And which floor was that?\ \We took the fifth.\ By now, North's sweating had a serious affect on the machine. It shorted out, electrocuting North. He awoke to find himself at the Pearly Gates. St. Peter was waiting for him. \Ah Col. North. We've been reviewing the record of your temporal existence. We have decided to admit both you and Fawn Hall. You may live together, forever, in physical bliss, if you come forth now and tell the truth about the Iran contra affair.\ \1. .. I can't\ \Why not, my son?\ \I can't come fortti, because I have to take the fifth.\ At this, Oliver North bolted upright in his bed. He was drenched from a cold sweat, that had soaked all the way through his mattress, into the box springs. He immediately got up, dressed, and drove to the , White House, where Nancy was waiting for him. \I can't take it anymore. I have to tell the truth.\ \Well if you feel you must, then you must. If you do, though, I'll leak the 'Berkeley File' to the press. You know, the one with all the press clippings of you in your student radical days. I especially like the one with a picture of you burning an American flag.'' \Do it, nobody will believe you.\ \Ollie you've reached a point now where whatever you say won't be believed, but whatever . the Post says about you will.\ \The Washington Post?\ \No the New York Post.\ With that thought, the show ended. It still left some questions unanswered, but at least now, we know why. People find it hard to accept this new concept of the dinosaur. They ask, \why did malllmals survive when the dinosaurs died off?\ The old myth provided the comforting theory that mammals have survived because they were superior to dinosaurs. The new theory sugge8ts that, if the rise of the mammals did not cause the demise of the dinosaurs, then evolution is not a predic- table process. If it is not a predictable process, than there is no guarantee that mammals, though the most intelligent of animals on earth, will be around forever. The AIDS epidemic has un- derscored the vulnerability of the human race. Professor Gould warned that simply trusting in the omnipotence of technicians, who have been wrong before, or believing that AIDS is a means of killing the unwanted element of the population, is the biggest threat to finding a cure to the disease. In closing, Professor Gould added that we must understand our position in nature and our subjection to its whims. AIDS is not a message of the way we should live, but a problem wE must confront. If we use the intelligence that we are so proud of, than we can meet that threat.

PageS CONCORDIENS!S, March$, 1987 - ·FEATURES Talk Of The Town Drin.ker's Exc,lusive The C()ncordy recently asked': ''Should there be condom ads on televisiou?'; By KRISTINE ROBINSON and KATHY POLZER blanket in Jackson's Gardens (unless you're a senior~and (or at least dre:;tming you are) you guys don't have to Worry Photos and interviews by A.l Klapper instead of in the classroom. So anyway}. Be thankful you're a:t ''It's good that c()ndoms prevent disease, but I don't thin~ there should be eondom ads onT. V .\ Rob Shapiro '90. ''I think there sh()uld be condom ads. It's o11ly fair · they show all the women's products. It's protection. If commercials are done properly, I see no reason why not!\ Lauri Adelstein '&9. \Yes because it's a com- modity like anything else - they have a rigtlt to ad- vertise.\ Steve Garnett '90. ''I don't think it's fair that they should advertise only women's personal pr(Jciucts. I think it's only fair tltat they advertise. Cond()m com- mercials are usuall:y timed to the audience that se~s tllem- I don't think it W()Uld be a problem showing these ads.\ Tanya Rodzianko 'S!l. Well, we've reached that we're. here to offer a suggestion a trimester schot>l. Okay, deciding time in the term when to WCI'rd off those post· hopefully you're in a more we are forced t<l choose .the preregistration blues. relaxed frame of mind by now. courses that we wjll be skipping · The depression caU$ed by this So it's time to sit back and all Spring. It's a very trying week's trauma may be par· completely clear your mind of time for all of us, especially ticularly hard-hitting, con.- preregistration worries before since all the cotuses you HAVE sidering it effects your life until yOU$tart tty.ing to catch up nine to take conflict with those you June. Nowthat you've· signed up week's work in your Winter WANT to take (if, irideed,. any for all those courses you don't classes. Get together with a few exist}. To top it all off, every want to take ... courses you friendS, relax, and. start an- course you need. for your major know you're boWld, to fail _(or ticipating Spring (now that meets twice a week in the .a.£- come awfully .close to), do not we've all agreed to do poorly ternoon, and you know gosh despair. You can always make and like. it). darn well that you'll be out on a it up next Fall and Winter A whole hugeness' of research ________________ ......_.....,....__.. _ __,...,......_~----. and effort went into this week'·s drink. It's · important that · it create insta!lt oblivion (there's Union Riding .aub By DAWN GERACI How many of you actually know that Union College has a riding club? Well, not only do we have a riding club, but a club that is.startingto become active in intercollegiate riding com- petion! Last term, on November 15, those club members interested in showing took a trip to Cazenovia College. Considering the fact that this was only the second intercollegiate com- petition, it was a good showing. Jodi Burgess, club president, took a sixth place in novice equitation over fences and a second in novice equitation on the flat. Kristin Dawson placed first in novice equitation over fences and. second in novice equitation on the flat. The third competitor, Chris Wood, (show committee chairperson) also rode well. The most recent competition took place at Skidmore on February 21. Ag;:~in, competing against much more experienced schools such as Skidmore, Cornell, and Syracuse, to name a few, the . riders did an ex· cellent job. Jodi Burgess placed third in novice equitation on the flat and fifth in novice equation over fences. Chris Wood placed fifth in beginner walk-trot, while Kristin Dawson took a third in novice eqUitation over fences. Kevin Honikel, making his showing debut, placed · not too rnuch time to spare before exams~ as well as be sweet and palatable. AND, we are proud to s~y that we have reached a breakthrough mix- ture that has been awarded the Leslie-Lab-ite· seal of approval for drinkability. Not only is it good-tasting and eff.ective, it is a practical c:trink made from everyday around the dorm · ingredients. In other words, upon completioll of this article you should. be quite prepared to consume a PREREG- . ISTRATION. First, make a mug of coffee or cocoa or, if you have it, Suisse Mocha. Don't ma:ke a full mug .. · Then pour in vodka to the top. There. You're all done. No line, no closeouts, no cards, . no hassles. The heat from the hot mixer makes the vodka taste invisible but you'll know it's there. We promise. '------------------------..a....-::---~-~-=~.......,.,.___,.-\\1 fourth in beginner walk-trot, Gett ···ng ·ro· The R···ght. Upcoming plans for the club Before we say goodbye we also wanted to point outthat the · drink quite resembles the. campus sidewalks lately. Just one more reason to love Spring. Stay caltn, and never take an exam sober. cdc Career Qevelopment C<.n•er By MA.GGIE BOITANO Getting 'l'o The Right Job, a guide fu undergraduates searching for a suitable career, has just been published by two top professionals with the combined experience of 2.0 years in leading job markets. It is a comprehensive analysis of how to ·decide not only the career !Mst suited for you but also it ellplains exactly how to direct yo11r efforts most ef· fectively in pursuit of these goals. Co-authors Paolo de Oliveira, currently Vice-President of Program Development for 'I'Ite Disney Channel, and Steve Cohen, Di.l'ector of World-Wide Affairs at1d Special Events for TIME Magazine; exhibit a wealth of valuable experience that is eirectively portrayetl in this recent new publication. ''There .i~ a big difference between getting a job and getting it.le right job,\ states Mr. de Oliveriera, while Ml'. Cohen g;OES on to explain, \If there's cl' single theme rttnlling SE,NIORS Essay The Essay (We Treasure Your Words) Check It Out . .•• Humanities 210 · : · · . · . ·. . . . . . include three shows in the b k R • future: SUNY at Morrisville on Jo : A Boo evleW March 7, Cornell University on · March 15, and Syracuse through our book, it i:; the need for good research.'\ Through personal experience of the co- authors as both job-see:kers and hiring managers, a t~nique and comprehensive pers:pective is given on how to get visible results from a job seatcb. \Getting the right job-· complete with great op- portrutities, and often, a great salary, takes a minjmum of 3 to 4 months effort.'' Getting To The Right Job begins with detailed exercises and role playing situations that assist the reader in determining the career path consistent with his- ber aspirations a11d talents. Once established, tile b()ok goes on to explain where useful in- formation can be oiltained on topics like going wages and benefits, how t() research in- dustries, how t() make the best reswne and cover letter, and finally and most importantly, how to interview for jobs in a successful and. convincing manner. \Reswnes .and cover letters are vital, but how an applicant interviews is the crucial factor in getting a job,\ stressed Mr. de Oliveriera. ~e conclusion of this very helpful guide deals with the negotiating strategies to achieve right salaries, benefits, and job titles once a job offer has been secured. For the Wl- dergraduate, this is a · good introduction to. the intricacies of the job market and how one can skillfully and successfully maneuvre aroWld them. University on March· 23. The club is alSo thinking of changing their name to the Union Equestrian Team, and pur- chasing . team jackets. Please support the Union Riding club in their upcoming show~, or be adventurous and try a riding lesson or two! Contact Jodi Burgess for more information. Congra-,ulation to David Lewis and · his teammates for winning The College Bowl. Seats available on a first come, 1i rst serve basis. RESERVE NOW with pay·ment be1ore March 9th. Contact ~rot Camille Qualtere, #6587, :Department of Modern languages. (Seats sun available to see \'theatre .performance o,f -'The Trickster of S.eville'' $8~00 per ticket) IJrrGJ® ®rr rJ(fla·&J@~ T F D D I am clueless about what career I want. D D I have a rough idea ·. of what career I want. D D I know exactly what career I want. · =' - = . :::: ·= • ~· =· : = ::, =· = = = If you answ~red true to any of the above questions, Career Observation Days just might be one of the best experiences of your college years. Sign Up on March 3, 4 or 5 ' at the Career Development • Center CAREER OBSERVATION . DAYS for the experience of a lifetime Aprll7, 8 and 9 In Schenectady Albany and Troy. - !! • I ,.

BySTUAaT ODELL,. Ruby's Diner it) a piece of Schenectady\·stradition; Jt is an example of a diner which nostalgics :tike to frequent to satisfy fits of longing fol\an art~ deco setting and greasy home- style food. I had the oppcrtunity of spending. 10 weeks taking photographs of Ruby's Diner for Union's Photo III art C()urse. I chose the dmer for its distinct melange of interesting: people and unique atmosphere. The diner has been ()n Erie Boulevard for nearly :&o years serv,ing customers .. ranging from .politicians to factory workers, from businessmen to truck drivers. Ruby'$ Diner looks very much the same as it did on opening .day. It is quite small, seating only 50 .people, which greatly adds . to · the fri-endly ambiance usually found 1n such diners. For the curious photographer, Ruby's Diner is a wealth of unusual faces which seem to come out .of a Dickens' tale. It .is a setting reminiscent of the Depression. era when .people gathered t<> spend a few.cents on a meal and' to share their day's hardships. When sjtting; at the counter of Ruby~s Diner in front of a .plate of eggs and has browns., one can picture the past from which tbis diner grew. The regulars at Ruby's Djner are those who still like to live in the past, even if only for one hour a day. It is this piece· of the pastandthe faces,of those who appreciate it which I tried tp capture in my ph<>tographs. CONCQRDIENSJS, March 5, 1987 Page9 FEATURES A PORTRAIT OF RUBY'S DINER Edit.or's Note:'fhis photoj_ournalistessay, by Stuart Odell, is part of an effort to improve the relationship between the Union College and Schenectady com- munities. Both groups could clearly b~nefit from a more symbiotic relation- By JERRY FERRELLI and ROBIN GOLD On March 7, 1987 Frontlash, the youth support group of the AFL-ClO will be sponsoring a statewide college conference on the Coors B'eer boycott. The national boycott was begun in 1977 when Brewery Workers Lo(!al 366 was forced to strike the Adolph Coors Brewery over issues of numan dignity. These · issues included forced search and seizure as well as man· datory lie detector tests in which questions such as \Have you ever had sex? What kind? How often?\ were asked; as well as questions on political and religious beliefs. 'This boycott is supported and has been endorsed by numerous stndent associations, civil rights,. women's and en· vironmental groups because of the political beliefs and ac- tivities of the Coors family. Joseph Coors is a major funder of organizations such as The Moral Majority, The Jolm Birch Society and Phyllis Scblaffly's Eagle Forum. Joseph Coors also helped establish the Heritage Fo.undation which recommends the abolition o~ vital federal student aid programs sucll as the National Guaranteed Student Loans, Pell Grants, and The Work Study Programs. The Heritage Foundation has also recom- mended the repeal of various affirmative action statutes. The Adolph Coors Company has a long history of discrimination on the basis of race and sex. Up until the 1975 suit filed by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) against Coors because they had \in· tentionally engaged in unlawful employment practices'' since July 2, 1965, representation of minorities and women was minimal. Employees were only 3 percent black, 6 percent Chicano, and 7 percent women, and it took the lawsuit to force Coors to change their hiring practices. William Coors actively fought against the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. He called a mandatory meeting of all company employees in which they were urged to contact public officials in opposition to the measure. In 1984 William Coors gave a speech before a group of minority businessmen in which he was quoted by the Rocky Mountain News as stating \They (blacks) lack the intellectual capacity to suc- ceed\ and also \one of the best things they (slave traders) did for you is to drag your ancestors over here in chains.\ The boycott was started in New York State because Coors has recently begun distribution here. College student par- ticipation on the boycott has been instrumental in ensuring its success. In California alone, the boycott was successful in reducing Coors' share of the market from 50 percent to 14 percent.

Page 10 CONCORDfENS:/S, March 5, 1987 Olnmrbirnsis LETTERS . . . Fo~P!Ckd Q( ( lmon Collegt 1877 --------~-- ~~--~ Message to Seniors Pre- Registration· Faulty· The following editorial is directed at Union seniors. If you do not fit into this category, there is no need to continue r0ading! As we approach the waning hours of our days here at Union it is time for. both reflection and looking forward to the effect Union College has and will have on our lives. For some of us the Union experience has been frustrating: the closing of the AlunmiGym and Student Center in addition to the rise in the drinking age had seriously changed the social life of the College for the past two years. Some felt the frustrations of being in classes that seemed to be growing in the number of students along with the preregistration problems of not finding courses of our choice. Although not contrary to this, for most of us, Union has offered a chance for us to grow tremendously through the education we have received here and the activities and groups we have been a part of. Although we will soon be physically separated from Union, we will still share in being part of the future of the College particularly in its next few critical years and even beyond. We must leave Schenectady with a \cast of the mind\ from the rigors of a College education, but also with a dedication to Union's future and a pride in its success. Seniors should feel confident that their colleagues will be concerned with the College in years to come, but should act as a \check\ to insure that the goals of the College are maintained. Throughout the past several years the College has maintained stability in most areas. For the immediate future Union must become an ambitious institution that will i~prove the quality of its education by strengthening its components in order to create a stronger whole. Union should want all of its departments to become top-notch. The College might also want to consider branching out with innovative educational programs such as the general education degree presently under consideration. Union must continue to add to its endowment and must set goals for surpassing other institutrons. Yes, as soon.,to be alumni, and we do have a responsibility to contriJ:mte to this as best we can. As Union alumni, many of us will make an impression as the field that we choose and should return some of this to our College. Hopefully the College will be able to excel and serve the working community. A few years from now we may be interviewing these students for positions in our firms and we should have an immediate common link; as well as liking towards them. Most importantly, although it may seem corny, w~ should look forward to the times when we come back to Un10n, get a chance to measure our successes against that of our college friends, and talk about old times. In short, we should be concerned about keeping in touch with Union. After all, we will forever be known as Union undergrads: for the 'future we should become Union loyalists. A Reason to Be Proud As Concordiensis elections for the positions of Editor-in- Chief approach we realize that a person who has p~ayed an essential role in the Concordy will not be returnmg next term. After having held the position of Editor-in-Chief for four terms, senior Jay Grossman is retiring from his position to go out into the \real world.\ . As Editor-in-Chief, he has influenced the paper m many ways. His aggressive attitude has set the tone for the paper during his time in office. He confronted many issues con- cerning the administration, and the student body as well. His involvement in last year's Condordy sponsored \State of the Union\ conference and his strong stand on issues regarding fraternities exemplify this point. Furthermore, he has expanded the role of the paper by strengthening many informative connections throughout the campus and by recruiting new members to work on the paper. This brings a greater depth and accuracy to the paper than it has held in the past. The format of the paper has also improved greatly. It has developed a professional style which is a result of his ef- forts in studying the layout and style of various publications and adapting many of their better attributes to Coneordiensis. To the Ec:iitCJJ:\: I write to ,ou to air the grievances. ol many Union College st11.11:iellts who must tolerate ·a. faulty pre- registration. s~tem. Now let's see,. Union. 'IWia~ founded in 1795 so that maJtes it one hWAdred and ninety·t~o y€ars old. If .one were to comshder how many pre- registrati()llS ~Wllich have gone on since then. (if 1 we always had trimesters, a!ld you consider the summer t~rm), then the Union RE!g;is;tra~' s Office has repeated tiJ,is process over seven hundre!d and fifty times. I would im.agbe somewhere along the liile it would have found out llo\W to do it right. The who1~ CJoncept is quite simple. 'The: school .offers a variety of CIDWses every term which are optett to virtually any student wll(j) wishes to take them. Bat t!J.el'e' s a catch. The enrollmeiit ill some of these courses is llnlited. Thus those courses in\OVhicll the anticipated demand ex .. ceeods the enrolhnent capacity are ·deemed \card courses.'~I:fu:n1e wishes to enroll in a carcl c~urse then that person rnu.st g() to the depart- ment office of that course and get the &p(lropriate ~ard to show the Re~istrar so he can enroll in tbl!t course. But there is another catch. The traditica11ai rule of thumb in . obtaining aea..:td has been first come, first serrved. This has had ·Go Greece Greetings fcom sunny Greece- Just a qlli~k note to let you folks at U11ioll k:now all is well in the Easter11 Mediteranean. Kadafi ,is at a. safe distance and all is quiet (Jn the Turkish .front. Weekend ex::ct~rsions have taken various p.eeple to Egypt, Istanbul, Js~:a:el, Crete and other assorted i::~lands in the sparkling A..egean. For all those intereste<l ir1 a great winter term ned year, look into the program. ill Athens, Greece. A special th:a11k;s to Bill Thomas, from aU a>f LIS in Athens. t'ell'IJJ.Abroad in Greece Impr<lper Selections for Terms Abroad To the Editor.: It has re:ce11tly come to our attention fl!at a few juniors (read: Ill€~ year's seniors), were not aecepted to the Terms Abroad pr.OigTam. We feel that this is unfair in light of the .fact that, in S()II!le of these cases, there were: 1) sophomores (read: 11~ year's jwtiors) were acirnitted to the programs and 2) S't11dents who have already beEt! on tenns abroad have been ;a~cepted for another term. We hope that when Jay looks back on the paper in days to come he will see his ideals in practice in combination with . those of the future members of the staff in C(;mtinuing to improve Concordiensis. In keeping ~th his past per- formances we expect to hear from Jay m the future con- tinuing to give his opinions as he always has in guiding the paper to a better future. Uniol1 ba.s' prided itself on its excellent foreign study program a11<1 always boasted of its availa\)ii!ity to all students ( especialllr tllose engineers who \plan ah.ead\). Why then should a sophomore take preceden~Ceover a junior? And, why in thE world should one student be allowed to take two terms albroa(J before another student t.a~e:.s even one? Students 'I'NIIo graduate from Union w:itll(Jllt taking a tenn abroad w:ill never take ad- vantage Otf the excellent o~ portunily '!le pt·ogram offer·s. Tf students Siliilply choose not to CIJn.tlrtued on page 8 the distinct impact upon the student body of turning them into a roaming band of marauders at eight in the morning, on the seventh Wednesday of every term. Aside from disturbing the delicate sleep patterns of Union students, this process disciminates those who cannot be at the desired departmental office on that Wednesday. Some dep.artments, heowever, alleviate this pro·blem by having signup sh.eets for courses, and deter:mihe a couple o£ days later who is admitted into. the course. Now, with all of these catches, it is obvious this is a complex system. But the card system has worked, more or less, suf- ficiently :in the past. It has proven itself to be far superior to the Registrar office's keen tactical planning of holding pre- registration in the old Alumni Gym (you underclassmen, asl't an upperclassman). Once again, however, it appears that the Registrar's office is trying to further the evolutionary development of pre- registration. This new development calls for cutting down on the number of card courses listed in the preliminary course listing. But to list those courses which are in reality card course on a black- board in Silliman Hall (Registrar's office building). How· are we suppoi;ed to know what is a list course and what isn't if it .isn't on the sheet. Now; I am sure great minds are at work here, and that this development has some far reaching effect which we students could never com- prehend. But I imagme that lt couldn't hurt if the Economics Department taught some of these rocket scientists the basic · law of s.llpply and demand. If a course !las traditionally had a higher demand for enrollment than space allocated, then it is logical for some sort of enrollment . control to be associated with that course before it is listed in the preliminary course listing. This is only fairto the student body, the faculty, and the depart- mental secretaries who often have to hear these gripes more than anyone else. In fairness, the Reglstrar's office should not carry all the blame. If a professor does not want to make his traditional card course, a· card course then that is fine. But if that non-card course. is suddenly changed in the middle of pr~registratioil to being a card course, then it is the Registrar's responsibility to notify the student body, by a mailing, rather than a black- board. Sincerely, Cb:ristopher W.P .. Nolan '87 Term Abroad in Greece ASS(JC. Sports Editor Science Editors , AdvertisingEQitors · , ,Assoe.;:A:dvertising,mmtor , , ... ,\ · ,, · BU$ines~l•nagers:, .. · .... <''· ''\·:'·:· ,., .. ,,p, ..... · <: , . ..,r·,, .. ·· hi1!13cl~at~at'l1S.QI),Ii;iOCllo''\'' Photo Editor

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, Marcil 5, 1987 ~nnrnrbtrnsis LETTERs Fourukcl at ( /mon Collq:~ 18 ;';' ------------- ---- Message to Seniors The following editorial is directed at Union seniors. If you do not fit into this category, there is no need to continue r0ading! As we approach the waning hours of our days here at Union it is time for both reflection and looking forward . to the effect Union College has and will have on our lives. For some of us the Union experience has been frustrating: the closing of the Alumni Gym and Student Center in addition to the rise in the drinking age had seriously changed the social life of the College for the past two years. Some felt the frustrations of being in classes that seemed to be growing in the number of students along with the preregistration problems of not finding courses of our choice. Although not contrary to this, for most of us, Union has offered a chance for us to grow tremendously through the education we have received here and the activities and groups we have been a part of. Although we will soon be physically separated from Union, we will still share in being part of the future of the College particularly in its next few critical years and even beyond. We must leave Schenectady with a \cast of the mind\ from the rigors of a College education, but also with a dedication to Union's future and a pride in its success. Seniors should feel confident that their colleagues will be concerned with the College in years to come, but should act as a \check\ to insure that the goals of the College are maintained. Throughout the past several years the College has maintained stability in most areas. For the immediate future, Union must become an ambitious institution that will improve the quality of its education by strengthening its components in order to create a stronger whole. Union should want all of its departments to become top-notch. The College might also want to consider branching out with innovative educational programs such as the general education degree presently under consideration. Union must continue to add to its endowment and must set goals for surpassing other institutions. Yes, as soon-to be alumni, and we do have a responsibility to contribute to this as best we can. As Union alumni, many of us will make an impression as the field that we choose and should return some of this to our College. Hopefully the College will be able to excel and serve the working community. A few years from now we may be interviewing these students for positions in our firms and we should have an immediate common link, as well as liking towards them. Most importantly, although it may seem corny, we should look forward to the times when we come back to Union, get a chance to measure our successes against that of our college friends, and talk about old times. In short, we should be concerned about keeping in touch with Union. After all, we will forever be known as Union undergrads: for the future we should become Union loyalists. A Reason to Be Proud As Concordiensis elections for the positions of Editor-in- Chief approach we realize that a person who has played an essential role in the Concordy will not be returning next term. After having held the position of Editor-in-Chief for four terms, senior Jay Grossman is retiring from his position to go out into the \real world.\ As Editor-in-Chief, he has influenced the paper in many ways. His aggressive attitude has set the tone for the paper during his time in office. He confronted many issues con- cerning the administration, and the student body as well. His involvement in last year's Condordy sponsored \State of the Union\ conference and his strong stand on issues regarding fraternities exemplify this point. Furthermore, he has expanded the role of the paper by strengthening many informative connections throughout the campus and by recruiting new members to work on the paper. This brings a greater depth and accuracy to the paper than it has held in the past. The format of the paper has also improved greatly. It has developed a professional style which is a result of his ef- forts in studying the layout and style of various publications and adapting many of their better attributes to Concordiensis. We hope that when Jay looks back on the paper in days to come he will see his ideals in practice in combination with those of the future members of the staff in continuing to improve Concordiensis. In keeping with his past per- formances we expect to hear from Jay in the future con- tinuing to give his opinions as he r~lways has in guiding thP paper to a better future. Pre .. Registration Faulty To the Editor: I write te you to air Ute grievances of many Union CGllege students who must tolerate a faulty pre- registration system. Now let's see, Union was founded in 1795 so that makes it one hundred and ninety-two years old. If one were to consider how many pre- registrations which have gone on since then (if ·we always had trimesters, and you consider the summer term), then the Union Registrar's Office has repeated this process over seven hundred and fifty times. I would imagine somewhere along the line it would have f0und out how to do it right. The whole concept is quite simple. The school offers a variety of courses every term which are open to virtually any student who wishes to take them. But there's a catch. The enrollment in some of these courses is limited. Thus those courses in which the anticipated demand exceeds the enrollment capacity are deemed \card courses.\ If one wishes to enroll in a card course then that person must go to the depart· ment office of that course and get the appropriate card to show the Registrar so he can enroll in that course. But there is another catch. The traditional rule of thumb in obtaining a card has been first come, first served. This has had Go Greece Greetings from sunny Greece- Just a quick note to let you folks at Union know all is well in the Eastern Mediteranean. Kadafi is at a safe distance and all is quiet on the Turkish front. Weekend excursions have taken various people to Egypt, Istanbul, Israel, Crete and other assorted islands in the sparkling Aegean. For all those interested in a great winter term next year, look into the program in Athens, Greece. A special thanks to Bill Thomas, from all of us in Athens. Term Abroad in Greece ltnproper Selections for Terms Abroad To the Editor: Ii has recently come to our attention that a few juniors (read: next year's seniors) , were not accepted to the Terms Abroad program. We feel that this is unfair in light of the .fact that, in some of these cases, there were: 1) sophomores (read: next year's jwtiors) were admitted to the programs and 2) students who have already been on terms abroad have been accepted for another term. Union has prided itself on its excellent foreign study program and always boasted of its availability to all students (especially those engineers who \plan ahead\). Why then should a sophomore take precedence over a junior? And, why in the world should one student be allowed to take two terms abroad before another student takes even one? Students who graduate from Union without taking a tenn abroad will never take ad- vantage of the excellent op- ~rtunity the prog1·am offers. 1f students simply choose not to Continued on page 6 the distinct impact upon the student body of tu:raing them inta a roaming ban.d of marauders at eig;ht in the morning, on t.he seventh Wednesday of eJTery term. Aside from disturbing the delicate sleep patter'ns of Union students, this process discirninates those wl!o cann0t be at the desired departmental office on that Weditesday. Some departments, how ever, alleviate this :problem by having signup slleets for courses, and detennine a couple of days later who is admitted into the course. Now, with all of 1llese catches, it is obvious this is a complex system. But the C!ard system has worked, morE Or' less, sllf- ficiently in the P'ast. It has proven itself to b~ far superior to the Registrar ()ffice's keen tactical planning of h()lding pre- registration in the ()lei Alumni Gym (you underclassmen, ask an upperclassrn an). Once again, however, it appears that the Registrar's office is trying to further the evolutionary development of pre- registration. '['h.is new development calls Eor cutting down on the number of card courses listed in the preliminary course Listing. But to list those courses which are in reality card cour~e on a black- board in SiUman Hall (Registrar's officE building) . How are we supposed to know what is a list course and what isn't if it isn't on the sheet. Now, I am .sure great minds are at work here, and that this development has some far reaching effect which we students could never con- prebend. But I imagine that it couldn't hurt if the Economics Department taught some of these rocket scientists the basic law of .supply and demand. If a course has traditionally had a higher demand for enrollment than space allocated, then it is logical for some sort of enrolllnent control to be associated with that course before it is listed in the preliminary course listing. This is only fair to the student body, the faculty, and the depart- mental secretaries who often l:lave to hear these gripes more than anyone else. In fairness, the Registrar's office should not carry all the blame. If a professor does n.<Jt want to make his traditional card course, a card course then that is fine. But if that non-card course is suddenly changed in the middle of pre-registration to beiNg a card course, then it is the Registrar's responsibility to notify the student body, by a mailing, rather than a black- board. Sincerely, Christopher W.P. Nolan '87 '0 ro 0 .... .c <t: Term Abroad in Greece Editors-in Chief News Editors Features Editor Commentary ?.age Editors Arts Editors Associate Arb!Edit()r Campus PageEdit()rS Sports Edito,. Assoc. SportsE:ditor Science Editors Advertising E::d.itors Assoc. Adver1ising Editor Business l\:lfar1agers Photo Editor Copy Editor Subscripti()!l Editors lttrnsis Jay Grossman, Lee Ann Schn:Udt Davtd Gulliver,. Christine Hong Mar-garet Boitano~ Alex. Stephelll! . Wendy Zimmermal'l Greg Fay. Stuart Sands Nancy Grundman, Julie Steinberg Jan Goldstein Jennifer Ash, Lisa Marzilii Douglas Lloyd Chris Hinckley John Bergeron, Adam Helfand Jacki Bell, Lisa Ordower JessicaAdelsO'n Lisa. Katz. Bob Koch Alan Klapper Lori Leon John Bergeron, BobertMcGowari . Honorary Fa.~ulty Advisor C. William Buritley STAFF: (!atll:v Bednarik, . . Kristine Burnham, Leela · · ChowdbUl'y, Mary Jo Conley; Joy Cybul, Jason Green, Carol Haas, Marj~JTte llvffer, Debra B. Honig, Cameron Kenny~ steve Konlian, Li~ Leidner, Cathy Markes, Gina Mancuso, Andl'ew Miller, GaVin l\4()rton, Owen Mudge, Kristine Rubinson, Paul Scbop, Milt~ Sheridan, . Mike Silberstein, Rebecca Smith~ Melissa Stew~, Conrad Tatge, Beth Tumey, Mark Van Buren., R. Reed Wllidde;n, Mark T. Zimmerman. CONCOl\.J)ll!lNSl$ is published every Thursday by the stud~nts body of Uniott College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publicati<>ns . .()fEice: Susquehanna Publications, Inc .• Box 3&a. Sidney, New'Y~r'k 13838 (607) 563..a88S .. Subscription rate: $24 per year, deliverett atwwhere in tbeUnited States. t;:oncordiensis subscribes t()tbe: Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone-(518) 37;0-6155 E ... (]) 1-

CONCORDIENSIS, March 5~ 1\98? Page 11 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Crunch-Rip-Tear By ADAM HELFAND and JOHN BERGERON It's going to be your be~t season ever. You can bench ~0, squat 650 and run .a 4.4, · 40. Game time, your adrenet!in is flowing, you're foaming at the mouth, you tear out onto the field, catch a cleat irt the turf and twist your knee; give me a break. If not the lmee, a shoulder on a tackle or check, an ankle cutting a turn, or a back after one too many military presses or a . never ending back-briqge. These four common areas of injury are the backbone of a multi billion dollar business deemed sports medicine. 'Everyone is familiar with .the injury plagued to ex- awesome teams such as the Jets and ){nicks,. but What about plain Jane who caught her sboe heel in a sewer grating? Well, at one time, she would have simply gone to a family 'doctor. If there were enoUgh damage, she. might be shuffled off to the local specialist, either a podiatrist or ortho-surgeon. Today she would have to choose from thousands of \sports medicine specialists\ and hundreds of LenoK Hill type specialty hospital~. One such facility is the $1tl.3 million, lOO~bed Hughston complex; in Georgia. This state- oHhe~art facility admitted 3,600 patients and had revenues of$20 million last year. Arthroscopic surgery, a high-tech medical procedure that has gained much popularity since 1980, is respomdble for much of this revenue. During an artbroscopy, small punctures are made on the sid.e of the sleeping patient's da:maged joint. The :surgeon then Inserts a pencil-thin metal rod contairiing a car;nera and fiber optic light source. This rod project::; a• picture of the joint's interior; the cartilage, ligaments and nerves onto a TV monitor. With this im;ide look the surgeon can thEm insert another rod that contains a rotor-like blade which can be used to cut away and .suck out fine chips or pieces of torn ligaments. It's a relatively .painless procedure and the patient can begin to walk again· within days. l know because I had it done over break. Arthroscopy has not only greatly improved the healing ti.nle of the patient, it has also given doctors a much better understanding of what happens in each injury. Arthroscopy allows the doctor to observe the damaged joint without-moving anything so that it may be understood how the joint was injured. Besides~ cutting recovery time in half, advances in sports medicine now allow doctors to taketendons from the other places in the body to rebuild the knee. It is even possible to use Velero to bind the knee together. Community Service SEMINAR ON ~~ RADIAL KERATOTOMY The Surgic~l Correction of Nearsightedness The free community st'mi nar wi'll gi,·e you the opportunity to learn more a-bout the history of the procedure, as wdl as. the risks and hcnefits of the surgery. The sell1inar will include a general discussion of the procedun·. fnlloweu hy a video presentation and quesHon and answer period. Rdreshrnent.s will he ~erv<'d Lee tu rer: Location: Date: Time: Alexander Filipp. M.D. Hale House. Union ·co!1ege March 9th 7·00 P.M. FOR MORE INFORMATION. OR TO REGTSTER, PLEASE CALL: 462-6441 Common Athletic Injuries -And Where They Strike Athletic injuries and.the spOrts In which they occur most frequently Skier's Thumb Strained ligament or ..-------- Concueaion dislocation from falls in which thumb gets stuck in pole --- .... _ Football and rugby _ ;.----.-.- .. Fractured ca,uarbt~J~nttl Torn Knee ___ _.,.~ Football and skiing, basketball, tennis ·s.hin Splints Jogging Football, rugby Torn Rotator Cuff, O.ther Muscle Tears Baseball pitchers, tennis, football quarterbacks Slipped. Disk Weightlifting, football, squash Pulled Hamstring Softball, baseball, football; also, runners who fail to warm-up properly Sprained Ankle Stress Fructure Jogging Football, soccer, Sports medicine has created a new industry which has at- tracted many companies to build machines to ex:ercise and measure the strength of the injured athlete. These physical therapy machines provide resistance as the patient flex:es his muscles and then measure the force exerted. This is used to Administrative And Engineers Systems Colloquium ~peekers: Dr. J. Finkelstein Professor of History, lAM Dr. D. Thurston, Profesor of History and Political Science Union College Topic: \The Pacific Rim N· Time: Thursday, March 12, 1987 at3:45 Place: Room 312, Bailey Hall Unioh College tennis determine how much the in- jured joint has recuperated. Because of the increased interest in exercise · by Americans, this new industry bas attracted many doctors and ;numerous therapists to the field. What results is many qualified profesionals along with frudUlent ones claiming to David Flat be sports medicine ex:perts. This has urged legitimate ex:- perts to call f<>r some type of certification of the professional before he may practice this field of medicine. The American Orthopedic Society has began a certification process which could lead to certifying exams by 1989. Keck Foundation Awards Grant to Union For Equipment The W.M. Keck Foundation of Los Angeles has awarded Union College a grant of $125,000 to acquire instrwnents for the chemistry, geology and mechanical engineering programs. The support from the foundation recognizes the need that a liberal arts and engineering college like Union has in keepmg up-to-date with rapid developments in technology which affect the study of science. With this grant, Union will be able to purchase a fourier transform nuclear magnetic resonance. spectrometer (NMR) and a scanning electron microscope ( SEM). The nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer utilizes the new, computer-intensive technology for the analysis of the structure of chemical compounds. The scanning electron microscope, along with an x-ray energy dispersive analysis system, will open new in- structional avenues in the at Union. The SEM is an ideal instructional tool · because it allows the student to visualize directly the surfaces of specimens at high magnifications, including those objects that are out of the reach of the light microscope and are unsuited for the transmission electron microscope. The W.M. Keck Foundation, one of the nation's largest foundations in terms of annual grants, was established in 1954 by the late William M. Keck, founder of the Superior Oil Company, who also created in his will the W.M. Keck Trust for the benefit of the foundation. The foundation's pirmary fe)cus ~ em grants to universities and colleges throughout the United States, witb particular em· phasis in the fields of earth sciences, engineering, and medicine. It also provides limited support, focused on programs serving Southern California, in the areas of community services, health care, precollegiate education, and the arts. FREE ·ass Eastern Ave 393-2829 :JJ:EL tV:ER.y 8pecia.t £vel'y ~onlfa.y Ni9ht SUN. 3 :DO 1 :O 0 24 Cu.t Cheese Pt.zza. $8. OOptustax ... · noN. 3:00 _ 1 :00 506 Of':F on a,ny Kot . TUES. . CLOSED . . o~ Cold: 8u& lJ:ED.. 3 :DO 1 :00 . r . . , TKUR. 3:00 1:00 Ca,.,zone Dt' :Dt.nn.e-r :FR.\. 3:.00 1 :00 St IV FO·O'J· 8\ 1.08 SAT. 3 :DO 1 :00 \' _ '-\D

CONCORDJENSIS, Marclz5, 1987 Page I 1 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Crunch-Rip-Tear Common Athletic Injuries - And Wbere They Strike Athletic injuries and the sports In which they occur most freqtJently By ADAM HELFAND and JOHN BERGERON surgery, a high-tech medical procedure that has gained much popularity since 1980, is responsible for much of this revenue. Skhu's Th11mb Stra:ir:u~d ligan•ent or L------- Concussion Football and rugby It's going to be your best seas@n ever. You can bench 420, squat 650 aml run a 4.4, 40. Game time, your adrenalin is flowing, you're foaming at the mouth, you teal.\ out o:nto the field, catch a cleat in the turf and twist your knee; give me a break. If not the knee, a shoulder on a tackle or check, an ankle cutting a turn., or a back after one too many military presses or a never ending back-bridge. These four common areas ef injury are the backbone ef a multi bi:llion dollar business deemed sports medicine. During an arthroscopy, small puNctures are made on the side atslocatton from falls in which tt1umb gets stuck in pole----- TflillliS Elbow Frort1 too much playing, or fr()musing a bad stroke with hs a\VIf racquet Rlinnelr's Knee lf1t'lammation of tendon . bathind knee<::ap: Torr~ Knee ------- fQ()tball and skiing. bas!l<etball, tennis Satin Splints Jog;ging Fractured CollarboE\'a Football, rugby Torn Rotator Cuff, Other Muscle Tears Baset>all pitchers, tennis, football quarterbacks Slipped Disk Weightlifting, football, squash Pulled Hamstring Softball, baseball. footba~l; also, runners who fail to warm-up properly Everyone is familiar with the injury plagued to ex- awesome teams such as the Jets and Knicks, but what about plain Jane who caught her shoe heel in a sewer grating? Well, at one time, she would have simply gone to a family doctor. If there were enough damage, she might be shuffled off to the local specialist, either a podiatrist or ortho·surgeon. Today she would have to choose from thousancls of \sports mediciHe specialists\ and hundreds of Lenox Hill type specialty hospitals. of the sleeping patient's damaged joint. The surgeon then inserts a peacil·thm metal rod containing a camera and fiber optic light source. This rod projects a picture of the joint's interior; the cartilage, ligaments and nerves onto a TV monitor. With this inside look the surgeon can then insert another rod that contains a rotor-like blade which can be used to cut away and suck out fine chips or pieces of torn ligaments. It's a relatively painless procedure and the patient can begin to walk again within days. I know because I had it done over break. Arthroscopy has not only greatly improved the healing time of the patient, it has also Sprained Ankle Football, baseball. soccer, basketball, squash, tennis Stress Frncture Joggirlg Dav1d Flal given doctors a much better ,Sports medicine has created a understanding of what happens new industry which has at- in each injury. Arthroscopy tr.acted many companies to allows the doctor to observe the buill.d machines to exercise and damaged joint without moving measure the strength of the anything so that it may be injared athlete. These physical understood how the joint was tlurapy machines provide injured. Besides, cutting r~sistance as the patient flexes recovery time in half, advances hLs muscles and then measure in sports medicine now allow th.e f()rce exerted. This is used to determine how much the in- jured joint has recuperated. Because of the increased interest in exercise by Americans, this new industry has attracted many doctors and numerous therapists to the field. What results is many qualified profesionals along with frudulent ones claiming to be sports medicine experts. This has urged legitimate ex- perts to call for some type of certificatiun of the professiorral before he may practice tllis field of medicine. The American Orthopedic Society has began a certification process which could lead to certifying exams by 1989. One such facility is the $18.3 million, 100-bed Hughston complex in Georgia. This state- of-the-art facility admitted 3,600 patients and had revenues of $20 million last year. Arthroscopic doctors to take tendons from the r other places in the body to rebuild the knee. It is even possible to use Velcro to bind the knee together. ------------ Administrative And Engineers Systems Colloquium Keck Foundation Awards Grant to Union Community Service SEMINAR For Equipment ON 00~ RADIAL KERATOTOMY The Surgical Correction of Nearsighted ness Tlw free· rnmnH111ity '>t'lllllldr wdl g1Yt' )'\\1 the \l'portunity ln learn lll<>rr· ilbont tilL' luo.,tnry ,f tlw pn>ccdurl'. ao., wr·ll a'> tiJ,· n~k~ and hcnd1h .,f thl' sur~l'ry Tht' ~l'llll!l.tr \'o.·lll includl' a gelll'fill discussi<>n rl[ tilL' prnn·dtllt' lnllowerl h)' a Vld<'<> prco.;entallnn nnd yuesflllll and olll~wl'r penod Kdreshnwnts will lw \''r\· Lecturer: Location: Date: Time: Hale House. Unwn Colfege March 9 1 h ;- oo P M FOR MOK.E 1:-.JFORMATION OR TO RE<~ISTER. PLEASE CALL 462-6441 Spe·aker!;,. Dr. J. Finkelstein Professor of History, lAM Dr. D. Thurston, Profesor of History and Political Science Union College Topic: \The Pacific RimH Time: fhursday.March 12. 1987 at 3:45 Place: !Room 31 2, Bailey Hall Union College TheW .M. Keck Foundation of Los Angeles has awarded Uni()n College a grant of $125,000 to acquire instruments for tile chemistry, geology and mechanical engineering programs. The support from the foundation recognizes the need that a liberal arts and engineering college like Uni(Jn has in keeping up-to-date with rapid developments in technology which affect the study of science. With this grant, Union will be able to purchase a fourier transform nuclear magnetic resonance spe ctrorn e ter (NMR) and a scanning electron microscope ( SEM). The nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer utilizes the new, computer-intensive technology for the analysis of the structure of chemical compounds. The scanning elect ron microscope, along with ail :x-ray energy dispersive analysis system, will open new in- structional avenues in the physical and material sciences at Union. The SEM is an id~al instructional tool because it allows the student to visualize directly the surfaces of specimens at high magnifications, including those objects that are out of the re<1ch of the light microscope and are unsuited for the transmission electron microscope. The W.M. Keck FoWldation, one of the nation's largest foundations in terms of annual grants, was established in 1954 by the late William M. Keck. founder of the Superior Oil Company, who also created in his will theW .M. Keck Trust for the benefit of the foWldation. The foundation's phmary foc-us is un grants to universities a:nd colleges throughout the United States, with particular em- phasis in the fields of earth sciences, engineering, and medicine. It also provides limited support, focused on programs serving Southern California, in the areas of community services, health care, precollegiate education, and the arts. :FREE 838 Eastern Ave 393-2829 D:EL '\.VERy Speci.a-1: :Every ':ond:a.y Ni9ht SUN. 3:00 1:00 24 c~t Ckeese PLZZO. rtON.. 3:00 1:00 50c O:f':t on. a.ny Hot 'JUES. CL08$1l or Cold: 8u& 'WE:D. ~:DO 1 :DO THU:R... ~ :00 1 :DO Caizon.e or Dtnner rR.t. 3:oo 1:oo c.»tl·x .r-ooT sutt~s 8A.T. 3:00 1:00 a., I .n • >

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Morch 5, 1987 THE ARTS Arts Briefs l.mprovisalio.n Series Ends Dance and Music Behind The Scenes of Alice In Wonderland Mikhail Baryshnikov Ballet star Mikhail Baryshnikov was recently honored as this year's choice for Harvard University's Hasty Pudding Theatricals 1987 Man of the Year. He was presented with a pink and white tutu as well as the traditional bronze pudding pot from two men dressed in drag. Past Man of the Year winners include Sean Connery, Robert Redford, Bill Cosby, and Bill Murray. lee Capades Danny Kaye Dies at 74 Actor. and comedian Danny Kaye died Tuesday morning in Los Angeles, 'California at the age of 74 due to complications of hepatitis. He was known for his versatile skills and his winning ways with children as well as bein~ involved in many charttable organizations. ·. ''Jupiter and Elsewhere\ A seven-member cast will bring Gram Slaton's \Jupiter ''Hooray for Ice.!\ will and Elsewhere's to the stage present nine performances at from Ma~ch 14 thru April12 at the RPI Field House beginning the Capital Theatre. Tickets Tuesday, March 24 until SWl- ran~e from $11 to $1~ .50 and are day, March 29. This season, Ice ava1lable at Cap1tal Rep's Capades will feature Canadian Market Theat~e Box_ Office ~nd Ice Dance Champions Lorna all Commumty Box Off1ce Wighton and John Doweling locations. For more information with World Professional and please call462-4534 .. Canadian Champion Ron Shaver as Master of · · Ceremonies. Ticke~s are on sale Pro~\essor Trachtm now and are available at the '.1' RPI Fiel.d House in Tr~y as well enbero Sneaks as all TlCketron locat10ns. For -=-~::---b~_..;:r;;._ __ _ more inform(}tion call 266-6262. P r o f e s s o r M a r v i n ell <1l \0 ro Q. ro u CJ u - 0 > C/l <1l .... '- ::J 0 \) Lorna Wighton and John DoWding The Three Sisters The Nott Memorial will be the site of a performance of \The Three Sisters\ on Friday, \-~arch 6 at 8 p.m. Tickets are f.3.00 for students and $5.00 for the general public and can be purchased at the Students Activities Box Office located on the first floor of Old Cbapel. For further infonnation call 370. 6156. George Carlin On Friday, March 6, Proc- tor's Theater will be proud to present comedian George Carlin at 8 p.m. TiClkets are $15.50 and $13.50 and are available at Proctor's Box Office, Community Box: Offices, all suburban Carl Co. stores and Drome SoW1d. • Trach1enburg will speak on \Interaction of Monument and Site at the P8lazzo Vecchio\ in Florence. His discussion will take place on March 9 at 4:30 in SS016. A reception will follow in the Arts Atrium. Marvin Trachtenburg Berkshire Ballet The Berkshire Ballet presents New Dimensions in Dance on Saturday, March 7 at 8 p.m. in Proctor's Theater. Tickets can be purchased· at ProCtor's Theater and fill Conununity Box Offic~ For more information, call 382-3884. Dance Company On Thursday,March 5, the Lucinda Childs Dance Company will be conducting a com- bination Dance Lecture- Demonstration. It will be held in the Nott Memorial Theater and will'begin at 7:30. Admission is; free. Union College Concert Committee and Proctor's Theatre present SQUffZf April 20, 1987 At Proctor's Theatre Tickets On Sale Soon ByJOYCYBUL Th.e fourth and finiil part of the Winter Improvisation Series was performed on Friday, February '27, in the Arts Building. The originally scheduled performer ministrel Donald Heller was not able to. make it because of a five-week engagement in Japan. They were replaced by Vera Orlock, a dance professor at Union. She has .been teaching at Union for one year, and also works in Manhattan with Matthiew Keisjer, who accompanied her on Friday night. The performance itself was ver-y unusual and enj<>yable. It was one long continuous im· provisation of dance and music portraying various themes varying from fishing to riding on a train. Vera Orlock's dancing was a cross between ballet and other forms of dance. She had a few great one-liners, such as, \Emily tllat's your cue,\ and, \Matthiew we already planned this,\ with respect to choreography. Matthiew is very talented, J;~nd displayed this talent when he took wooden blocks out of a canvas bag. These blocks had metal strips nailed on to them; he arranged them in such a way on the floor as to create a xylophone. An added touch to the train theme was a miniature wind-up train which circled the floor. Vera Orlock says of the performance, \I enjoy sharing the spirit of the noment with .the audience; I hope that they can find some of those moments satisfying.\ This series could not have been made possible without the dedicated effort of Prof. Hilary Tann. \Next year I'll most likely, he away on sabbatical, but the series will be arranged by another professor. The year after next, I'll be arranging it again,\ stated Professor Tann. ...: a. CJ 0 \' .... '- <( By JESSICA AD ;ELSON By the time this article is published the Art Department's production of Alice in Won· derland will have finished its week 'long run. The set will have been struck, the lighting dismantled, the costumes packed away, the dressing rooms cleaned and the. work for a new Spring production will have begWl. Although the cast and crew of Alice are saddened by its completion, they are proud,ofthe play's success. The final product was a culmination of hundreds .of working hours contributed bY dedicated ac- tors, technicians, artists, set builders, and of course the director. The Actors After interviewing each member of the cast and crew I was so overloaded with in- formation I didn't know where to begin this article about the work done behind the scenes of the production. The actors in Alice faced many unique challenges because the entire cast, with the exception of Alice, had to portray more th$ one character and the parts they played ranged from animals to chess pieces, to cards. n was also ·difficult to interpret the text and the book because the version of Alice they performed, written by Andre Gregory and created by the Manhattan Project, was created through two years of improvisational theatre. This cast only had 6 weeks to create and interpret their concept, that of Alice living a nightmare. · . What the audience e~p~rieneed was the cast's impression of the Maphatten Project's in- terpretation-of Louis Carroll's vision. The task of .all the actors in the play was to become a part of Alice's dream, not an easy task at that. Louis Carroll's imagination created a night- mare in whiCh Alice struggles to remain the same height, en- counters a mad tea party, a stoned caterpillar, Humpty Dumpty, ·the Queen of Hearts, the White Knight, . and many other bizarre creatures and situations.· The first hurdle the cast had to overcome was portraying fictional characters and animals. The actors first had to imitate the mannerisms of the animal that they became. Katie Boyd, who played the Caterpillar, the Dodo and the Dormouse, said that in order to play the Caterpillar she became aware.ofthe animal's fluidity in movement 'fhat, and the speech she chose to adopt, was the vehicle she used to impress i:; upon the audience the vision of a ~ · stoned caterpillar. Because the ~ Dodo is extinct, she used her v imagination to create its walk, and through hints in the script, and copying the jUmpy movements of a mou~;Je she was able to create one Who suffered from epileptic fits and bouts of drowsiness. Melissa Bloo~p watched a parrot to create the movements of the Lory ~nd Rachel mimicked the movements of a cat. Many of the act'?rs a_dapted the technique of playing _their char&cters like chUclren :trying to become them. Craig Ratner portrayed the duck like .a folll'• year old trying to act like a duck, and Michelle Marratto played the Dutchess as a young girl trying to act; like her mother. AU of the actors referred back to the original text, especially Kerrie Ticknor Who played· Alice, and through their reading they were more able to relate to their charac- ters better and understand their place in reference to the. entire plot. These tricks could be used by some .of the actors but Steve Brown had difficulties playing Lewis, a character invented by the Manhattan Project to represent Louis Carroll's psyche. The original text did not have sufficient information for him to base his character so he had to read books on Freudian _psychology that explored · the mind of Louis Carroll. Everyone who attended the performances was amazed at the swift]Jess and the agility of the actors to change both costume and character in a matter of minutes. Each actor has their owri technique for changing ~heir character during the course of the play, all requiring deep concentration. The dangf;lr faced by the actor playing mtt1tiple parts is the tendeilcY for the charaCters to appear similar to one another. There must be a large enough distinction made between each' part played by the actor so as not to confuse the audience. R;achel Elfenbein had to play both a mouse and a Cheshire cat. In order to make the change obvious to the audience and herself, she distinctly changed her facial expression. The mouse had a puckered mouth while the cat grinned from ear to ear. Melissa played both the Queen of Hearts and the Lory, two catty characters, and despite the different costuming, it was hard, at first, for her t<> distinguish between their characteristics. Once she began to concentrate on the animal mannerisms of the Lory, she was able to play her part.· · The cast worked together with Mary Boone, their director, to create a working co:Q.cept. Through long hours of dedication they became an ensemble. trusitng one another and helping each other to learn. The play required all of the actors to control their bodies. The movement and Continued on page 13 ·i ll 1'. ,, ·I ! 1\1 c E c 6 \ ,, IJ c

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, March 5, 1987 THE ARTS Arts Briefs Mikhail Baryshnikov Ballet star Mikhail Baryshnikov was recently honored as this year's choice for Harvard University's Hasty Pudding Theatricals 19S7 Man of the Year. He was presented with a pink and white tutu as . well as the traditional bronze pudding pot from twG men dressed in drag. Past Man @f the Year winners include Sean Connery, Robext Redford, Bill Cosby, and Bill Murray. lee Capades Danny Kaye Dies at 74 Actor. and comedian Danny Kaye died Tuesday morning in Los Angeles, California at the age of 74 due to complications .of hepatitis. He was known for his versatvle skills and his wirming ways with children as well as being involved in many charitable organizations. ''J.upiter and Elsewhere\ A seven-member cast will bring Gram Slaton's \Jupiter \Hooray for Ice!'' will and Elsewhere's to the stage present nine performances at from Ma~ch 14 thru April 12 at the RPI Field House beginning the Capital Theatre. Tickets Tuesday, March 24 lUltil Sun- ran~e from $11 to $1 ~.50 and are day, March 29. This season, Ice available at Capital Rep's Capades will feature Canadian Market Theatre Box Office and Ice Dam~e Champions Lorna all Community Box Office Wighton and John Doweling locations. For more information with World Professional and please call 462-4534. Canadian Champion Ron Shaver as Master of ----------- Ceremonies. Ticke~s are on sale Pro*essor Tracht- now and are available at the '.!\ RPI Fiel_d House in Tr~y as well enbero Sneaks as all Tlcketron locations. For _______ l:J __ r ___ _ more information call 266-6262. P r o f e s s o r M a r v i n <11 ClJ \0 ro c. ro u ClJ u - 0 > <11 Q) - ... :::J 0 u Lorna Wighton aAd John Dowding The Three Sisters The Nott Memorial will be the site of a performance of \'The Three Sisters\ on Friday, ll.!arch 6 at 8 p.m. Tickets are ~.3.00 for students and $5.00 for the general public an<l can be purchased at the Students Activities Box Office locate<! on the first floor of Old Chapel. For further infonnation call 370- 6156. George Carlin On Friday, March 6, Proc- tor's 'Theater will be proud to present comedian George Carlin at 8 p.m. Tickets are $15.50 and $13.50 and are available at Proctor's Box Office, Community Bo-x Offices, all suburban Carl Co. stores and Drome Sound. Trachtenburg will speak on \Interaction of Monument and Site at the Palazzo Vecchio\ in Florence. His discussion will take place on March 9 at 4: 30 in SS016. A reception will follow in the Arts Atriwn. Marvin Trachtenburg Berkshire Ballet The Berkshire Ballet presents New Dimensions in Dance on Saturday, March 7 at 8 p.m. in Proctor's Theater. Tickets can be purchased at Proctor's Theater and ~ill ConunWlity Box Offic~ For more infonnation, call 382-3884. Dance Company On Thurs<lay,March 5, the Lucinda Childs Dance Company will be conducting a com- bination Dance Lecture- Demonstration. It will be held in the Nott Memorial Theater and will begin at 7:30. Admission is free. present SQUEEZE April 20, 1987 At Proctor's Theatre Tickets On Sale Soon Improvisation Series End,s Dance and Music ByJOYCYBUL Tile fourth and final part of the Winter Improvisation Series was performed @n Friday, February 27, in. tile Arts Building. The originally scheduled performer ministrel Donald HeUer was not able to make it because of a five-week engagement in Japan. They were replaced by Vera Orlock, a dance professor at Union. She has been teaching at Union for one year, and also works in Manhattan with Matthiew Keisjer, who accompanied her on Friday night. The performance itself was very unusual and enjoyable. It was one long continuous im- provisation of dance and music portraying various themes varying from fishing to riding on a train. Vera Or lock's dancing was a cross between ballet and other forms of dance. She had a few great one-liners, such as, \Emily that's your cue,\ and, \Matthiew we already planned this,\ with respect to choreography. Matthiew is very talented, and displayed this talent when he took wooden blocks out of a canvas bag. These blocks had metal strips nailed on to them; he arranged them in such a way on the floor as to create a xylophone. An added touch to the train theme was a miniature wind-up train which circled the floor. Vera Orlock says of the performance, \I enjoy sharing the spirit of the moment with the audience; I hope that they can find some of those moments satisfying.\ This series could not have been made possible without the dedicated effort of Prof. Hilary Tann. \Next year I'll most likely be away on sabbatical, but the series will be arranged by another profess<Jr. The year after next, I'll be arranging it again,\ stated Professor Tann. ~l ti ·- Vera Orlock - c. ClJ 0 II> - ..... <( - 0 > II> ClJ +- ... :::J 0 u Behind The Scenes of Alice In Wonderland By JESSICA ADELSON By the time this article is published the Art Department's production of Alice in Won- derland will have finished its week long run. The set will have been struck, the lighting dismantled, the costumes packed away, the dressing rooms cleaned and the work for a new Spring production will have begun. Although the cast and crew of Alice are saddened by its completion, they are proud of the play's success. The final product was a culmination of hundreds of working hours contdbuted by dedicated ac- tors, technicians, artists, set builders, and of course the director. The Actors After interviewing each member of the cast and crew I was so overloaded with in- formation I didn't know where to begin this article about the work done behind the scenes of the production. The actors in Alice faced many unique challenges because the entire cast, with the exception of Alice, had to portray more than one character and the parts they played ranged from animals to chess pieces, to cards. It was also difficult to interpret the text and the book because the version of Alice they performed, written by Andre Gregory and created by the Manhattan Project, was created through two years of improvisational theatre. This cast only had 6 weeks to create and interpret their concept, that of Alice living a nightmare. What the audience experienced was the cast's impression of the Manhatten Project's in- terpretation of Louis Carroll's vision. The task of all the actors in the play was to become a part of Alice's dream, not an easy task at that. Louis Carroll's imagination created a night- mare in which Alice struggles to remain the same height, en- counters a mad tea party, a stoned caterpillar, Humpty Dumpty, the Queen of Hearts, the White Knight, . and many other bizarre creatures and situations. The first hurdle the cast had to overcome was portraying fictional characters and animals. The actors first had to imitate the mannerisms of the animal that they became. Katie Boyd, who played the Caterpillar, the Dodo and the Dormouse, said that in order to play the Caterpillar she became aware of the animal's fluidity in movement. That, and the speech she chose to adopt, was the vehicle she used to impress upon the audience the vision of a stoned caterpillar. Because the Dodo is e~iinct, she used her hnagination to create its walk, and through hints in the script, and copying the jumpy movements of a mouse she was able to create one who suffered fram epileptic fits and bouts of drowsiness. Melissa Bloom watched a parrot to create the movements of the Lory and Rachel mimicked the movements of a eat. Many of the actGrs adapted the technique of playing their eharaeters Uke children trying to become them. Craig Ratner portrayed the duck like a four- year old trying to act like a duck, and Michelle Marratto played the Dutchess as a yotmg girl trying to act like her mother. All Gf the actors referred back to the original text, especially Kerrie Ticknor who played Alice, and through their reading they were more able to relate to their charac- ters better and understand their place in reference to the entire plot. These tricks could be used by some of the actors but Steve Brown had difficulties playing Lewis, a character invented by the Manhattan Project to represent Louis Carroll's psyche. The original text did not have sufficient information for him to base his character so he had to read books on Freudian psychology that explored the mind of Louis Carroll. Everyone who attended the performances was amazed at the swiftness and the agility of the actors to change both costume and character in a matter of minutes. Each actor has their own technique for changing their character during the course of the play, all requiring deep concentration. The danger faced by the actor playing multiple parts is the tendency for the characters to appear similar to one another. There must be a large enough distinction made between each· part played by the actor so as not to confuse the audience. Rachel Elfenbein had to play both a mouse and a Cheshire cat. In order to make the change obvious to the audience and herself, she distinctly changed her facial expression. The mouse had a puckered mouth while the cat grinned from ear to ear. Melissa played both the Queen of Hearts and the Lory, two catty characters, and despite the different costuming, it was hard, at first, for her to distinguish between their characteristics. Once she began to concentrate on the animal mannerisms of the Lory, she was able to play her part. The cast worked together with Mary Boone, their director, to create a working con.cept. Through long hours of dedication they became an ensemble, trusitng one another and helping each other to learn. The play required all of the actors to control their bodies. The movement and Continued on page 13 Arts Happenings March$ On Campus: Play: Three Sisters at 8 p.m. in the Nott. For more informaticn can 37().. &150 > • George Catlinat&p.m. at Pr<lct.f}rs 1 March 7 Off campus~ Ballet: Bershire.Ballet presents New Dimensions in Dance at 8 p··· .m. at Proctors . 1 i ... Marcth 8 Off Campus! ~Big Band Gala of Stars at 7 p.m. at Proethrs on campus: · The tktav~ Cha:mberSmgers at3 p.m. iri Memorial Chapel. Mardt90n,Campl}s: . J~ctur~~·· f.>r'of.· ~~ . ..b· .. . ·. .. • J' andJslte at the V ~U:=· ~7~=·~AJ:~~.~me Play .... ~~Jupiter,tntd,Jillsewhev.eV ·a~'\the . . . .. · .. · • , .· . •• . . . ··. : ,f~~~}l·f4tlJ~2~~·,c<;':i<:'·'' iE·\· ,,.~\::·; ··0?~ ·;r)•>•y ··· < , c'•F ,, ., \ · ···•·· < t Mareh 1l Off CmntJo:: V:angmu:El~Albaay. .. sympttnnJ\a~3:P\iliJ•.1:\l·~~ \ ,

At Memorial Chapel fl •• A Perform,ance of End\les·s Propo:rtions ByJOYCYBUL The Dutch Pipers,. the G~rnet Minstre~, and the Williams College women's singing gr~up, Ephoria, held a concert in Old Chapel on Saturday night at 6:30. Ephoria opened with the song, '_'It's Alright-Ba·by's Comin' Back,\ and went through other favorites such as \Crocodile Rock\ and ''There's a Place for Us.'' . In between songs, fbey asked t}le audience questions such as, \Why is it that you drive on a parkway and .park in a driveway?\ One of the girls told us that she had asked a man on the street where she (lould get scrod {for those singers who were vegetarians) and he replied, \I've never beard anyone use the past pluperfect for that word before.'' Anyway, they sang beautifully, and received a very warm welcome from Union students. The second act was Union's Garnet Minstrels, the women's singing group~ This is their second year as a club and a majority of the club members are also part of the Conege Choir. They sang songs such as \Danny Boy,\ ''Shenandoah,\ and \Boy from New York City,\ complete with dark sunglasses. Their closing song really hit home with the Union College corrununity. With beer mugs in hand, the Minstrels sang their rendition of \What ShallWe Do With a Drunken Sailor? \ They also were very enjoyable to liSten to. Finally, the hosts (lf the evening, the Dutch Pipers,. came on. But not all at once- one at a time, the entire group came up on stage with varying excuses as to why they were late. These excuses varied from ''getting trashed\ to ''she lost the keys tCJ the handcuffs.\ Anyway, they Opened with \Barbara Ann\ and went on to that popular Latin tune,. \A Woa a Me (shame and scandal on the family}''. This was one favorite of the audience, but was soon topped off by \Under th.e Boardwalk.\ The guys wore sunglasses and at just the right moment dropped their slacks to reveal Hawaiian shorts. I think that I can safely say that .this was a favorite of the women in the audience. The Piper's closed with ''Goodnight Sweetheart,'' Sha-Na .. Na style, finishing off an outstanding performance by all. Ken Budka, '87, sums up the feelings of all of the singers-- simple, \We. be jammin'.'' CONCORDIENSIS, March 5, 1987 · • Alice In Wonderland • • • · Continued from page 12 choreography of each scene went smoothly because of the efforts of the cast to learn .gymnastics, exercise, and do aerobics before each rehearsal. Andre Gregory, tile· author of · the script said that Jn Alice's world is the world of a child the ·characters \play the way children play where the imagination and the things lying around the ho\lse are used to create a concrete world.\ So , the actors worked to do just that. They perform this play, not to teach a lesson or get a - point across., the .play's .single goal is to entertain. like circus performers, the actors take the audience on a fantastic journey using their imagination and the imagination of LeWis Carroll, and allowingthe audience to QSe their imagination as well. Tony Pallone, the Mad Hatter, the Crab, and the Frog Footman, said that the cast as a whole focused on the waking-dream concept. The most creative parts of the play occurred when they tried to adhere to this concept. For example, Alice falls down the rabbit hole like falling into a dream, into liD· . consciousness. The play begins with the same members of the cast playing real people in Alice's life Sitting on a boat made of other members of the cast. The boat disintegrates when Alice falls asleep but it re- emerges when she awakens at the end of the play. Creative energy, and improvisation, were major . forces behind the cast and their final production. Mandatory Investfflen't· Meeting Club Election For Offices For The Next Year Monday, March 9 7:30 p.m. SS105 .· · .. · . ··. -·· -;:-·- -:.-.·-::-. ;:_.::--·::::: .. · . . ··. . . •:.-. ~;~,}~~~¥!~,;;~:' •.. ,::·········· .. ··. .(.1.·.• :1-l :::c~:nl2~tii¥G!ISI· ... · .. :,·:·.······••····=··s9.7.,.FM=·;sTe•il~o•-;. '·'THE···FiRsT ...._ ..... _.. ...... _..··.·- ·.: · .. STATI6N'.lN.Tfi'I=···NATION~•· , . . ~ ::• .. :::::~·e.::·.·w.·,.:·::_···_.:·_.'··.::.:._:;:·a_:·.·=.t~g.:··.· : 1 _- _• ·_:: ..... ····Killing Joke'ha~1hitthea.97 iii it's· c.· ·.:= :: .. ·,;: .· '2'hr$t w~kof'rei~ase .. ~- .. ··. ·. • : . .. :· :. N~t·i··~i§.Y:~:·;~~~e. . .::·.·¥t8t. · · -· :: .. ·- ... , ....... ·: ·.La\l~l •. ·. ·· t•·oea(G'Cid···12'~ -.... · · ·.=· · _. ·•·• XTC · · ·::·:......... ·· •·<Geffen: ·. ''+ •. ,~~f::~\;f~~\fi\&~n~rrvw ,, ~;:n:~~u,,, •.. .. ~~et . <· >4~ 'A1hens; Ga>Jnside/dut , ':, VariotJ's.'Artlsts. ·. · IRS . s>What.Pilc'tParactis6 . . .. . < , ••• ChinciCrisis A & M· ..... : ... : .. ·.:,, •.. ·::.···:··•;:~:·:=~·~~~i~,~~l~a@::::;:·:::::•.:, .. ;;,., .•... ,·:.•·:-····:·:'····'·=············:·.:~·:;.:.•::;::::: .... : .. ::::.·~~di;~·::~,6~~6.§ •: ............ :: .•... a:t~3~d .· .......... . ·•··:•· '':'':'':''8:/'Santty; 12!1;,•\ x::::::•:::-··•····•··· ·: .:·=:::·=:: ,:: .·=·•:J<:III,i.ng .Joke= •··. · , · .... ·: ::Virgin .. ,; .. · . , ...... . . ·····8.97•<Aioornati~e tactics·..... . .··• . . . . : . N(:liN,.Johnny 5 ... · . ..Art's a passion. .. : :·tg~ AODS~<Cham~l$0nsUK. Wire Train, Mumbo Jumbo ADVENTUREPICK:Househunters. RICH CM1440V.]$ DANCp, COA~Efl;· .•1. \lean:.QO ·Me\-Ciub. Nouveau . .. . ·. . :~11i0~:··:;;;· :;;z:~ \:·~· \;:·ti.1£iq~:~ : : . ; : . . ' ... ·· • .. ,., · t·JNRVP. cqhgratul~tes;. .zar, Hl(;;~q,pek H~yse~ 1111p.,thf:l \F:u.?:iy N~t$.~ who were. the team .· .·- .. · . . •· ... , .... ,,,,,, .. winr)~rs for:Tri~ia. A.~er thr.~e. W~(l)~~ •• of ~x.ile~.th' ·e~~om.I,.Jpe.~ .will<r~turo lhi$ Sl.lnday .- . . ,'•··.··· ,,.,.,,.,~t~:.p.rp .• ~poti_•~NSh9W.J9.r.J~!~ 1At9E;l~)$~Mom~gg Maoiq,~.MQOQ&Y$from.8:30-t 0:$0 .. ·. · .... ,.~~'\' ;;·~~:~~~~;~.~;;~~~~-o/:L~~:~.~~,~~g~,~r£41;~~~ 0 ~ ... ····~···· Page 13 THE ARTS Arts Briefs Octavo Chamber Singers On SWlday, March 8~ the Octavo Chamber Singers will perform Thomas Savoy's \Predicabo Te Domine\ at 3 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. Also inCluded in this concert are Mozart's Requiem and a new cantata by Sissel Hunt entitled ''Listen to the Children.'' \Listen to the Children\ will be performed by the Octavo Youth Chorus. The Ba~d plus . .. On Saturday, March 14, the Palace Theatre in Albany will be ho~t to an unbelievable evening of entertainnientas the Band, Hot Tuna, and Roy . Buchanan will take the, stage. The concert will begin at 8 p.m. and is sponsored by Brian Alden. Tickets are available at all Ticketron Outlets, the Palace Box Office, Drome Sound, and Music Shack in Troy. For information call 465- 4663. Mini to Massive The final lecture in the NYS Museum's series will be entitled \From Mini to Massive.\ Exhibit specialist John Anson . will show the techniques needed to transform a miniature model into a lifesize animal. This slide- lecture will take place on Sunday, March 8 at 3 p.m. For more information please call 474-5842. Alex Markoff Sculptor Alex Markoff, visiting assistant professor of the arts at Union College, has a one-man show of recent sculpture in wood and metal now on display at the Bronx Musewn of the Arts in Bronx, New York. The show, which opened February 12 .and will run through March 29 is on display in the Jerry Clifford Com- munity Gallery. A reception for the artist and his work is set for March 12 from 5-8 p.m. The work consists of two large constructions of painted wood and five vertical variations in . welded stainless steel, that measure between five and ten feet tall. The wood con- structions are half scale models for large outdoor pieces to be . executed in steel and concrete. Markoff studied at the State Academy of Fine Arts in Berlin, Germany. He teaches courses in three-dimensional design and sculpture at Union College. I Union College Concert Series. The Polish Chamber Philharmonic Orchestra along. with Alexander Peskanov, on its first North American tour, will· perform as part of the Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series on Tbutsday, March 5 at 8 p.m. · Tickets for the concert at the Memorial Chapel are $10 at the door, $5 for students. They are available at the Schenectady Museum, an Commrutity Box Office locations, and the Palace Theatre. For more information please call 372-3651. Magic at the Palace Doug Henning will perform his magic as he takes the stage of Albany's Palace Theatre on March20. His show will begin at 8 p.m. and is sponsored by Brian Alden. Tic}tets are available at all Ticketron Outlets, the Palace Box office, Drome Sotmd, and Music Shack in Troy. For more information call 465-4663. Doug Henning Albany Symphony The second performance by Vanguard-Albany Symphony will take'place on March 15 at 3:00p.m. at the Palace Theater in Albany._ The concert is for listeners of all ages, but is especially for those from ()..12 years of age. The concert will offer music from the seven- teenth century to the present day. The audience Will par- ticipate during the presentation in order to assist them in learning bow music works. Gala of Stars On Sunday, March 8, Proc-. tor's Theatre will present a Big Band Gala of Stars with such greats as Johnnie Ray and the Four Lads. Tickets are $14, $12, and $8 and can be purchased at Proctor's Theatre and all community Box Offices. For more information, call 382-3884. 100 Days 'TI Graduation Party September 10, .1983 • the last time the class of '87 was together as a whole. Well it worked so well the first time, we thought we'd try It again. March 6, 1987 - 100 days til graduation. A celebration tor Seniors only. A chance to reminisce about the past three years. A chance to socialize and meet all the people you haven't met yet. In our attempt to satisfy your every need, the Senior class presents the titst annual \100 DAYS 'TIL GRADUATION palty\. A party given by the Seniors for the Seniors, On March 6,1987 at 10,:00 p.m. , Old Chapel. Be There!

CONCORDIENSJS, March 5, 1987 At Memorial Chapel .... Alice In Wonderland ••• Continued from page 12 choreography of each scene went smoothly because of tile efforts of the cast to learn gymnastics, exercise, and do aerobics before each rehearsal. A Performance of En,dless Proportions Andre Gregory, the author of the script said that in Alices world is the world of a child tlu characters \play the way children play where the imagination and the things lying around the house are used to create a concrete world.\ So the actors worked to do just that. They perform this play, not to teach a lesson or get a point across, the play's single goal is to entertain. Like circus performers, the actors take the audience on a fantastic journey using their imagination and the imagination of Lewis Carr-oll, and allowing the audience to use their imagination as well. T<>ny Pallone, the Mad Hatter, the Crab, and the Frog Faotman, said that the cast as a whole focused on the waking -dream concept. The most creative parts of the play occurred when they tried to adhere to tllis concept. For example, Alice falls down the rabbit hole like falling into a dream, into UJl- ByJOYCYBUL The Dutch Pipers, the Garnet Minstrels, and the Williams College women's singing group, Ephoria, held a concert in Old Chapel on Saturday night at 6:30. Ephoria opened with the .song, \It's Alright-Baby's Comin' Back,\ and went through other favorites such as \Crocodile Rock\ and \There's a Place for Us.\ In between songs, they asked the audience questions such. as, ''Why is it that you drive on a parkway and park in a driveway?\ One of the girls told us that she had asked a man on the street where she could get scrod (for those singers who were vegetarians) and he replied, \I've never heard anyone use the past pluperfect for that word before.\ Anyway, they sang beautifully, and received a very warm welcome from Union students. The second act was Union's Garnet Minstrels, the women's singing group. This is their second year as a club and a majority of the club members are also part of the College Choir. They sang songs such as \Danny Boy,\ \Shenandoah and \Boy from New York City,\ complete with dark sunglasses. Their closing s<mg really hit home with the Union C()Hege community. With beer mugs in hand, the Minstrels sang their rendition of \What ShaH We Do With a DrU!I.ken Sailor?\ They also were very enjoyable to listen to. Finally, the hosts of the evening, the Dutch Pipers, came on. But not all at once- one at a time, the entire groap came up on stage with varying excuses as to why they were late. These excuses varied from \getting trashed\ to \she lost the keys to the handcuffs.\ Anyway. they opened with \Barbara .Ann'' and went on to that popular Latin tune, ''A Woa a Me (shame and scandal on the family)\. This was one f<~vorite of the audience, but was soon topped off by \Under the Boardwalk.\ The guys wore sunglasses and at just the right moment dropped their slacks to reveal Hawaiian shorts. I think that I can safely say that this was a fav()rite of the women in the audience. The Pipers closed with \Goodnight Sweetheart,\ Sha-Na- N<~ style, finishing off an outstanding performance by all. Ken Budka, '87, swns up the feelings of all of the singers- simple, \We be janunin'.\ . consciousness. The play begins with the same members of the cast playing real people in Alice's life sitting on a boat made of other members of the cast. The boat disintegratEs when Alice falls asleep but it re- emerges when she awakens at the end of the play. Creative energy, and improvisation, were major forces behind the cast and their final production. Mandatory Investmen-t Meeting Club Election For Offices For The Next Year Monday, March 9 7:30 p.m. SS1 05 NEW 8.97 WRUC PLAYLIST 89m7 FM STEREO- \THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ Killing Joke 11as hit the 8.97 in .it's first w~k of release ... No.- Album Name Artist Label 1. Dear God 12\ XTC Geffen 2. Warehouse-Songs & Stories Husker Du Warner 3. Ragin' Full On Firehose SST 4. Athens, Ga.-lnside/Out Various Artists IRS 5. What Price Paradise China Crisis A & M 6. Hermitage Waxing Poetics Emergo 7. Blast of Silence Golden Palominos Celluloid 8. Sanity 12\ Killing J.oke Virgin 8.97 Alternative Tactics New Johnny 5 Art's a passion TOP ADDS: Chameleons UK, Wire Train, MumboJt~rnboADVENTURE PICK: Househunters RICH CHILLOUTS DANCE CORNER: t. \Lean on Me\-Ciub Nouveau . 2. \Candy\-Cameo $.\Hold M~\- Sheila E. 4. \Showing Out\ • Mel & Kim 5. \It's Tricky\- <Auf\ DMO WRUC congratulates ZBT, HickcockHouse, and the '\Fuzzy Nuts\ who were the team winoers for Trivia. After three weeks of exile, the .. Bott.om Une\ will return this Sunday al9 p.m. Spotlight Show for this week is \Morning Mania,\ Mondays from 8:30-10:30 a.111. with Seth Michaels. Compiled by \Fast\ Ed Koval. WRUC Music Library Director Page 13 THE ARTS Arts Briefs Octavo Chamber Singers On Sunday, March 8, the Octavo Chamber Singers will perform Thomas Savoy's \Predicabo Te Domine\ at 3 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. Also included in this coacert are Mozart's Requiem and a new cantata by Sissel Hunt entitled \Listen to the Children.\ \Listen to the Children\ will be performed by the Octavo Youth Chorus. The Band plus ... On Saturday, March 14, the Palace Theatre in Albany will be host to an unbelievable evening of entertainmentas the Band, Hot Tuna, and Roy Buchanan will take the stage. · The concert will begin at 8 p.m. and is sponsored by Brian · Alden. Tickets are available at all Ticketron Outlets, the Palace Box Office, Drome Sound, and Music Shack in Troy. For information call 465- 4663. Mini to Massive The final lecture in the NYS Museum's series will be entitled \From Mini to Massive.\ Exhibit specialist John Anson will show the teclmiques needed to transform a miniature model into a lifesize animal. This slide- lecture will take place on Sunday, March 8 at 3 p.m. For more information please call 474-5842. Alex Markoff Sculptor Alex Markoff, visiting assistant professor of the arts at Union College, has a one-man show of recent sculpture in wood and metal now on display at the Bronx Museum of the Arts in Bronx, New York. The show, which opened February 12 and will run through March 29 is on display in the Jerry Clifford Com- munity Gallery. A reception for the artist and his work is set for March 12 from 5-8 p.m. The work consists of two large constructions of painted wood and five vertical variations in welded stainless steel, that measure between five and ten feet tall. The wood con- structions are half scale models for large outdoor pieces to be executed in steel and concrete. Markoff studied at the State Academy of Fine Arts in Berlin, Germany. He teaches courses in three-dimensional design and sculpture at Union College. Union College Concert Series The Polish Chamber Philharmonic Orchestra along with Alexander Peskanov, on its first North American tour, will perform as part of the Schenectady Musewn-Union Cellege Concert Series on Thursday, March 5 at 8 p.m. Tickets for the concert at the Memorial Chapel are $10 at the door, $5 for students. They are available at the Schenectady Museum, all Community Box Office locations, and the Palace Theatre. For more information please call 372-3651. Magic at the Palace Doug Henning will perform his magic as he takes the stage ()f Albany's Palace Theatre on March 20. His show will begin at ~ p.m. and is sponsored by Brian Alden. Tickets are available at all 'ricketron Oatlets, the Palace Box Office, Drorne Som1d, and Music Shack in Troy. For more information call 46H663. Doug Henning Albany Symphony The second performance by Vanguard-Albany Symphony will take place on March 15 at 3:00p.m. at the Palace Theater in Albany. The concert is for listeners of all ages, but is especially for those from 6-12 years of age. The concert will offer music from the seven- tEenth century to the present day. The audience will par- ticipate during the presentation in order to assist them in lEarning how music works. Gala of Stars On Sunday, March 8, Proc- tor's Theatre will present a Big Band Gala of Stars with such greats as Johnnie Ray and the Four Lads. Tickets are $14, $12, and $8 and can be purchased at Proctor's Theatre and all -community Box Offices. For more information, call382-3884. 100 Days 'Til Graduation Party September 10, 1983 - the last time the class of '87 was together as a whole. WeT/ it worked so well the first time, we thought we'd try it again. March 6, 1987 - 100 days til graduation. A celebration for Seniors only. A chance to reminisce about the past three years. A chance to socialize and meet all the people you havell't met yet. In our attempt to satisfy your every need, the Senior class presents the first annual \100 DAYS \TIL GRADUATION party\. A party given by the Seniors for the Seniors, On March 6,1987 at 10:00 p.m. , Old Cllapel. Be There!

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, March5,_1987 THE ARTS Jan and B.uddy at The Movies Pat Metheny at The Pale~ce By JASON GREEN many of the evening's .songs Metheny's. popularity,. unlike were vv.ritten for the new album that. of more recent phenomena • Hoosiers' R-rated starring Gene .Hac::kman Mohawk Mall Cin.tlma order for Hoosiers' to be a hwnan drama and not just a sportS' drama, Pi.2z;o introduced the team's leader as a con- troversial figure. Gene Hackman plays the role of the controversial new coach who introduces tile boys to a unique style of play. Hackman's ideas on the gamtl of basketb~ do not coincide witb those of the fanatic townspeople. Therefore not only does Hackman have to· lead his team to victory but at the same time win the support of the town. Pizz() presents his story without succumbing to the addition of superficial marketing lures. He does not cut the basketball scenes short nor fill them with unrealistic dramatic events. While it appeared that the r-est of the world spent last Friday evening at Delta Delta Delta's Formal somewhet;e in Vermont {what happened to New York?} those in the know spent their evening mystified -bY the guitarwork of Pat Metheny at the Palace Theatre in Albany. As for me, well, Con- ·C()rdiensis got me two tickets. I · found a date (actually a friend) and I was equally amazed. Having spent very little time ever listening to Pat Metheny, I v.ras and still am a novice. But it tllrned out that fate~was on tny si-de .. Beginning bis show with . llis \Forward MarCh,\ Metheny · and his band members, gathered from a:round the {!lobe, spent nearly two and one- balf hours overwhelming the packed tneatre with a varied and for the most part untitled repertoire. Following a set in which Methen~ was featured on. electric and acoustic guitars and even on a sitar, Metheny . explained to the audience that . he and the band were preparing . to enter the studio to record · another group album, and that but remained untitled. 'That was like Ben Jovi, extends beyond fine for me, since I didn't know the upper reaches of puberty. any of the songs' titles to begin We $aw all kinds of people at the with. Despite my ignorance, concert: students, elderly, and there wasn't one piece played even a professor brou;ght by bis that didn't completely fuspire yoWlg, but attractive daughter~ · me and lift me from my seat. Sitting in .the acavernous From what colleagues have theatre, it was a pleasure to told me, Metheny played a attend a concert at which the ~eat number of songs from his audience didn't stand. and 'First Circle\ l;llbum, as well as scream, but rather listened and songs .fromhisown solo albums. enjoyed the talented. musicians The .powerful piano playing. 9£- on st;age. Interestingly, when Lyle Davis, and the percussion the band left the stage, the led by Armando, a native of standing ovation they received Brazil, were fascinating. was d~oid ofthe u$ual glow of Although they played only in- burning .lighters urging the strumental pieces, two new band to return .for an encore. additions to the band com- plemented the ricb textute of Metheny's mU$ic as they sang what sounded like African chants. In addition to the jazz pieces for which be is famous, Metheny also played a number of soft~ soulful ballads, alter- nating the pace of the show between his tight rhythmic pieces and the more open-ended modern electronic persussive pieces that left the audience stunned. At least it left us stunned. Speaking of the audience, . Wllile not any . way of . evaluating the skill of any verformer, our measur:e of the band's worth was in our desire to head stratght 'home. The show had been so tremendoUs that we felt nothing we could have done- would have added anything to our evening;s pleasure. When tlie Pat Metheny Group comes back to Albany, fmd a friend and get your tickets for a show that will totally consume you and leave you screaming for more. Oh not, not an,other basket:- ball movie where the underdog wins with a slow m()tion action shot in the last sec()nd. We can all be rest ass11red because Hoosiers' is not your typical sports flick. Screenwriter and co-producer Angelo Pizzo based his story on a trae event that occurred in 1954. Pizzo takes us to Indiana where basketball is a way of life and not just a sport. The actual event the film stems from is the 1954 In.diana State Basketball championship, in which the team frCJm the small town of Milan ruse against all odds to capture the state title. In I applaud Pizzo from straying. . , from that far to familiar theme of focusing on each player's ardent desire to \get out of this small town.\ Pizzo sticks to the storyline of small team working its way to the top. and does not upset the motif <lf the film. The audience is abha to vicariously join the team on its crusade to the top. The _viewer is not dependent on whether or not the team actually wins or loses instead the emphasis is on the natural progression of history. Pizzo has created a real heartwarming (a word I dislike using but must due to its ac- curacy) drama for both the sport enthusiast and the common folk. B+ SNL's Dennis Miller Comes To Union· The Unionaires are singing every Wednesday from 12:30 - 1:30 p.m. in the Arts Building, room 205. All singers are .welcome to join us. We are especiaBy in need of male singers. Come and try us out. Its fun and relaxing. For Further Information. Please Contact Marguerite Potochney at 370-6641 By LEE .ANN SCHMIDT Winter Photo Contest Winners The winners of the ·Wir1ter 1987 Photo Contest are as follows: Congratulations. to our winners and thank you to everyone who submitted prlnts;. Al$o,. anyone with a camera - start pr.eparihg for tile photo sl1ow during parent's we~kettct. ··,Topic: tJnion· \' A ·<plaee··to· Grow.· fro ON TURvl The fdt)e· · · ['V2 (:rOt ~oR¥­ \o \j)! Dennis Miller, \Comedy is not about appeasing club owners in Los Angeles or New York.\ He cautions, \It's about com- mitment to the art of being funny-and eventually things will fall your way.'' (The Philadelphia Inquirer May 24, 1986). Apparently this philosophy has worked for him. Mill~r' s dry style of comedy has carried him frl:lm ~and-up comedian in Los Angeles to the position of newscaster for the Saturday Night Live Show. On w 'SNL' Miller controls'the news ¥ desk, rereading his stylized o interpretation of the week's· t; news events. Most critics claim ~ Miller is the most talented u member of the new 'SNL' cast. ~ The Union COllege Speakers w Forum is bringing the comedy o of ·Dennis Miller to campus ;;;- during the first week of spring t term, on Wednesday Aprill, at 5 8 p.m. Tickets can be purchased u at the Old Chapel Box Office for $3. International Relations ·Club Important Meeting Anyone interested in going to the Harvard Model Senate.9-12 of April, Come to the. meeting. Thursday, March 5 at 7:30 in SS014 1hfN PuLL up 'd <SeAt\. . IW6AN :s &AND i~ ;;>I rna;+ · J oil/ . i ·[ I ,I

1 i . i ., ·i I ,! J ,\ .[ ! '\ \ II ' cmien1~1ttt' 9. ' QJ:lean,rs & iTJailors 1flt!t. ( 518) 374-6647 01 SpeCializing tA , 0 JO .\'( S'llifde & Leather Cle&~ning · .• e,..~tl . . Slllrts & Blouses Laundered . ,,_.,'t\ O\)tl1S Zipperrs; :Replaced - J.eans Shortened. 9 ,so C:luarge Accounts Welcome Wha+hilr you order piZZ'411- SIJII:ts, soda, snacks, popcorn, or anything else from the Rock. ''n' .ltull piz.za Pub, you're nG;Jt orily 'getting better prices t~an oif-·c:tmpus Pi:zzarias, you~re supporting stuilent workers as well~ ·oelirery is free, on or off-campus, during all 'ltusiness hours. We ire op111il J:dmys a w~ek from 1 :30-p.m. until l2:GO e~~.m., h30 .p.m. until H:31t a.m. an Friday and Saturday, thr~ughout the school yea.r. ilee!JI i11 mind that the money generated by the Piua ·Pub returns bacll a11d is forwgrded towirds student interests and Union· College .. :llm~: besides, it's good pizza! Honest! So please viJ•it us at lst flootdWes1 College or call for delivery. · Our menu is as follows • , • 8-c11t Piz~a $5.00 IOIPIIi~ts include: 6-cgfPiz~a $4.00 slices-still only· .80 IU full sub half sub $2.75 $1.75 popcorn ' .50 soda .50 cook.ie .SO Drakes's cakes .so juice .60 (lla111 . .,:turkey, •u·oeast beef) Freilloffer' s and more comingso·o~ • • . • •• pepperoni mushrooms peppers onions olives extra cheese sausage (minimum $5.00 order (or I··C!Jt pizza) for deliveryt. toppings subject to availability.) . PiZZII -· ~-= The W1y You Like ITI Call Us At 370-6060 'Union Co{{ege Spea~-rs ~orum Presents at 8:00p.m. Memoriml. Chapel [ . Tic~s $3.00 I Av•i:Jalale at ···Box Office CONCORIJIENSIS,.March ~' 198'\/·- Page 15 PARENTS WEEKEND. Coming! T -Shirt Design Contest for the weekend wi H run until March 12 All Designs should be submitted to student activities. For more information call Mrs. Marra or Miss Clark at student activities. Student Activities Van is now .available · · ··rJ~~ (.fifty Mile Radius) .:.'=,~>~~ ·;~.~-:·. ;), . ' For more information check in Student Activities Office or call 6129 Are you I FRESHMAN WRITERS The ·VAN ORDEN Prize is For YOU fi·nd out more in Humanities 210 Spanish Table Mondays. 12:30 p.m. . 1n Hole House interested in keeping in touch wit·h your classmates after graduati·on? Become an Associate Agent for The Annual Fund. Anyone who is interested please contact . Susan Neum.ann (387 -1195) ~ or . Naomi Mendel at Lamont House I I I I I I I I ' ' - ' ' ·f.

'•' I f Page 16 MISCELLANEOUS An Ad Hoc Tenure Committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Assistant Professor llene Kapl~ of <the Sociology Department. Members of the committee are: Prof. Martha Huggins,. Sociology; Prof. Kenneth Schick, Physics; Prof. Donald Thurston, History; and Prof Robert Baker, Phi.loso.pqy, Chair. Persons wishing to contribute oral or written testimony concerning Prof. ~~aplan's tenurability may .:onsult any of the committee members. Paid internships will be available in New England and New York State to students of history, design, journalism, anthropology, English and related fields of study as part of this summer's Yankee Intern Program. Forty students will be chosen to undertake on~site projects concerned with con- servation of the built. en- vironment. Receive a stipend, academic credit and bona fide work ex- perience in your field of in- terest-many internships have led to subsequent career op- portunities. For more information, contact your career counseling center, or call the National Trust at (617) 223~7754. Deadline to apply for ill~ temships beginning in June 1967 is March 15. CLASSIFIEDS For Sale: 19 inch color 'TV, TV~VCR stand, women's cross. country skis w-poles and bin~ dings, 3 bookcases, soft~ sculpture chair, wine rack cart, double bed, dresser, desk and chajr. Call 372~7496, leave message on machine if necessary. PERSONALS Gaul~It's anchors away for real! Bon voyage, we will miss y()u. so much. Just don't get sea5ick like Chester and have a blast! Love, Minnie Cher, and Waf's. Gem.....:Thanx for the Walkman; it keeps me peddling ... A, D, K, L, L, P-Thanks you guys. Love, Rachel Shelby- This time next week, think we'll be done? -Jen Shellus-Carve another arrow u1 that table! A nice gold medal for the cop! It's a y~what's-up~ mania kinda weekend. lA>ve, Fifi •· Jean us- You better be nice to me or I'll put another half-eaten lobster in your bed. And I am NOT and Woozer Monster! ! ! Love, Woous · Chrissy-Sorry I plowed you down on Saturday! Come and get your vodka already! Love, Mom Statistics show: RUNNERS MAKE BETTER LOVERS! Now's your chance for self~ improvement. Track practice daily at 3:40 in the field house. MareS •' CONCORDIENSIS, March 5, 1987 BJM Here's what yo11've been waiting for, but a little late. Happy B~day. KFS Happy 21st Birthday Pres-Mel! Love, the Sisters of Delta Gamma don't let H.W. eat any beans .... Brian and Adam We've seen your stuff and we are ready to take you on ... or off . the court! Your admirers Great Ski Trip ... Jean enjoyed the hospitality. Happy 21st M.V.P.! Nour ... (etc.) What can I say~I'm gonna miss our attempts at exciting dinners and stimUlating phone convos next term, but most of all, I'll miss you~ Good luck - MAD SDT Pledges, Looking forward to calling you \sisters\ when 1 return. Til then may you experience THE INSPIRATION! -MAD Yo Chest, looking huge! No wonder you can't keep the chicks off you! Big GeorgeTown! Please St. Rhonda and her x~ray eyes ~ Pray for us! M&M Alice cast: We made it! It's been brillig ... Hoopla, you know .. .love you all ... deal just deal ... WOW .•• egg toss ... sex ... ~ nose.· Love, Meow ... cough Hot Lips, Dirtball, and Twerp, Beware! The Prankst.er is <.:or .... ng! The Prankster is coming! Kappalappadingdong, If you di:m't get out of tile gym soon, we're gonna send in the NAVY to fish you. out of the pool! - Tweedledunham To the Biggest \L\ on campus, You are tbe best! I love you! The \L\ squared Members .of Doody Phi Mandatory meeting at the \house\ 2nd stall! I love you guys! SisterL. To the beautiful, rich, famous, thin, chic person named Michele ... Happy Birthday. I placed out of Intro to Hebrew at RPI, but plan on taking Advanced Pumpkin carving at Johns Hopkins over break. Mona, Let's go to Garcias. I hear that they have great tea there. Well on the other hand, maybe we should stick to Bloody Marys. Betsy and Tacy and Mor~ ningstar forever! Great job with the ski trip ... thanks. Now when are the parties ... Pledge ' Want a girl her name's Francine, finest thing you ever seen, and I love her she's all that I want, and I need her she's all that 1 need ~ PH Let's \Cruise\ to California SAM To the four Canuks: How about some pizza, honey, Chinese . food, a mutt and some American babes ~ we'd like to see our RCHA play beach volleyball. No more curfew! Popcorn Partyers: Slow down you're movin' too fast! Missy (Van the Man) & Martina (Ashley)- I'll miss you lots! Have a great term! -LB Well, I now know why B:MW is going bankrupt, and I know who is responsible! Neil-Sat. night was great ~ thanx: a lot for taking me. -L Dear daughter, Nice basketball . technique. But a much better .scavenge hunter, I should' say. Love, Mom spectacular season! · · Love, your fans &Capt.C GVs-,.-Alright, CG can wear it ... it'll give me SQmething to focus on <luring our races and we'll just have to get to practice early to dance on docks with · lifejackets in the rain. · · · 3rd floor .Fox North: PartYing · Ability -3; hospitality •5; . creativity -9; towel stealing -0; homines~ ~10. Thanks for a fun week, Darryl . MAD Woman~ I'll niiss ya next · term, but don't worrY I'll take over as Head Prankster while you're gone. Love, your favorite .& loudest hallmatel Why did you come to Union? . . Well, it seemed like the thing to do at the time. Flounder, Time to panie! 10 cases, 12 floor plans, .2 papers, and 6 thesis chapters due this • week! Hah, Mr. Big Congrats on. the job offer! 'Has · Macy's created the Woozer\ Monster? Coming soon to a. theater near you. Nance- everything worked out · amazing! Dad hoped~ we had fun .... you are the beans! Love You .. me. Smile 38D! Time t() get away ~ hot sun, blue skies, White sand~ and a Bain de Soleil tan. You'll be golden. Hey mon ~. think Barbados!!! Cp. N · Vicki, ·-Happy 21st! · ow we can Forget it! Deal's off loser! celebrate the right way. .Adam H.T. March 6-8, Stand By Me, at 7, 9, and 11 Hey- The blond one ~ Mindy?? Wet, bend, flip, .spray! Ooo~la-la~Baracuda!!! M. Goodbye Gail, Nora, Kristen, Hahn Have a great tenn! We'll miss you. Hawker- Love, the Sisters of Delta Gamma Hope you have an awesome Rugby season. Maryjane FAVORITE! We all.know that you are hot. There was no need to self~ MAD- ThanK for the campaigning! Did you know I won! It is not Alumni Gym any more, but Lori's Gym! SDT Sisters, There are things Worse than exile from your house ya know! A Plebe Glynnet & Sport ... I call spring tenn ... Say bye to the twinS. --,RSVP is now required.- Rtlekefeller H.W. · Listen to my stomach growl ... Imagine my embarrassment. Did you lmow Tri-Delt SUNY Binghamton was. having a St. Patty's Day bash? Everybody ignite! wants him! :The clothes store Princess .. Fifi, Do you hear music! (Boom, Boon Ball Boom Boom Boodoo Ba)l.Boom Boom Bah) way to kitchen table dive. · Leslie- I'm very proud of you! I will miss yoli, you hanger stealer. Love YBS, roomie and friend. Spam, Happy 2oth Birthday! Love Kat & Jen Are you ambidextrous, and what does that mean? SDT Pledges- Thanks for the VCRi Wee Wee ~ ClMM....Sim To Erris, falafel, v-day, coco's, late nights, parties, phone calls,- ~ day, disaster on a ski lift, a day w-e underware, the missing pearl, \all nerves,'' Mon· tgomery, hall conversations, 3 a.m. on a Friday night, bathing . suit piclures, and you ... Thanx! But you know, didn't do well on that sex test! I Bonecrusher! Looking forward to your Tues., March 10, Spring Break, at 7, 9, and 11. · March 13~15, Ruthless People; at 7, 9, and n. ELECTIONS FOR. ·E;DITORS . ' IN CH:IEF. WILl .. TAKE PLACE ON M~ARCH ll 4:30 .. 3rd Floor Olcl Cha.p~l Mrs. Marra must receive notic:e of can- didates' intentions by 4: 30 tomorrow. APAR'TMENT S FOR 1987-1988 3 Bedroom Apartment, 4 Bedroom Apartment 1 Bedroom House, 8 Bedroom- House _Includes: refridgerator, stove, w:asher & dryer~ w/w carpet, furniture & parking DEPOSIT REQUIRED BY APRIL 6th U 370-5498 after 5:30 p.m PEANUtS :by Charles M. Sc:hulz DO \{OU NEED HELP WITt\ \fOUR liOMEWORK? 1M 1 60017 AT WRITING TERM PAPERS .. DO YOU NeE!/ A~V AC'VICE ? 60 A~EAD •• A51( ME ANl(THING ... IS 11 6ET LO~T ''ONE WORD OR TWO? l \ l ' I r

CONCORDIENSIS, March5, 1987 fa~e17 1986·87 Spring term Registration Procedures Spring term classes Will tlegin at 8:30· a.m. on Monday,March JQ, Student schedules will be distributed to camp11s mailboxes prior to the beginning of·classes. Students who. do not receive a copy of their class\Schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Field House beginning at B:OO a.m. on the first day of classes. Formal registration and vaiidat.ioo of 1.0. cards will take Place in the ·Field House on Monday and ruesday, March 30 and 31. Students shOuld register according to the following schedule unless there is .a conflic.t with a . class: LastNarne Report A -E Monday morning8:30-11:30a.m. ·F- K Monday afternoon 1:00-4:00 p;m. L-R TuesdaymorningB:30-11:30a.m. S-Z Tuesday af-ternoon l:00-4:00p.m. A representative of the Business Offi'ce will be present at the Field House to handle late payment of term bills and to help resolve any bi llingproblems. Students are reminded that completion of formal registration procedures is required of all students regar- dless ·Of whether or .not a studen.t has .preregistered or paid tor the term. Fi'lilure to register may jeopardize financial aid awards and acQdemic credit. Registration after Wednesday Aprill will be considered LATE and a fee of $25 will be assessed. Schedule Changes In addition. to formal: registration, schedule change$ (the adding and or dropping of courses} may be done at the Field Hpuse on Mon.ac;~y .and Tuesday, March 30-31, and theree~fter at the Registrar'!? Office in Sillima11 Hall. The last day .fQr m<'Jking ·schedvle changes without 11 Special permission\ as well as the last da.y to declare \pass:fail\ ·intentions for a course; is Frida·y, April3. Any course dropped after that date will result in a grade of \W\ (Withdraw). OFFICE OF COMPUTER SERVICES 'INTRO' SEMINAR' SCHEDULE APRIL 1967 Moncloy 1liMdey . ~ ~ . fridaY :-----------l-- ... ------ --r-------- .. -r1-- -- --·--;- r ----------31 I • I I I ' I I : 1 : llilrO•to lhoVAX : I I D : I - I t : : I I .;.~-nqan I ,: ! I : :. SH1IO : : I : : : : _ I L_ ........ ---- ... - .-+·- -:·-- -- --·- ... -,---- --•-·~· \\1-~-,- ... -- ... - -- r -------- o:o-- ... J : 6 1 71 8·1 91 10: I I I t· I t• I I t I I I I I 1 1 I I 1 1 I I 1 I I I 1 I I I 1 I I I· I ·t : I 1: I ~----------r-~--------~----------J-----------L---------- : 13 I 14: 151 .• 16: 17 ' 1ntr0 to ttte v,;x .: : lntro to WPS-f'I.US: : I I 10:00ttm • 1I:OOIIn I' I I ·\\\\'- - ..,....,._ I I SHI1Q . I 'I ' 1 \'\\\\'\ ........... ' ~to Woulp•foc~ 1 I t!uwt. Q • I •I I I ~~~~~ l I 10:QOam ... 1t('IOem ~ I I I' , I : flllnb!!'Jw ~ •I 1 I I_,.,--:--------~------- .. --.,----------~---------.-- t- __ .. ________ , To register for these courses please stop by the OCS Office and sign-up with tile secretary or pl)one 37Cr6293. .If there Is a. course you would like offered by OCS, agl!iri, please stop DY or ·call and lea~e -the following information with the secretary and· sorooone will get in toucll with you; your name, phone# and the CQUrse you are interested In belrtg offered. ) , .I ) ) ) I , J - - - - CHUC & The Union CoUege Sloan Fund are pleased· to invite all faculty to a Sherry and CAl · Party Wednesday, April 1st from 3:'30-5:30 in the CHUC Room To see & explore the educa.tional polislbllltles of the VAX Demonstrations will be given of the Union College Interactive Blackboard and other 'techniques of • computer aided Instruction.· ·Interested faculty may also enroll In a CHUC-Sioan sponsored course that will run one evening a week during the .spring term. --- - -- - - ediType WORD PROClSSING SERVICE Resumes and Cover Letters Technical Typing Term Papers and Theses 1986 rates for first drafts received be.fore February 1, 1987 On-Campus delivery ~an be arrange-d - · DONJT- FO'RG ET 100 DAYS 'TILL GRAD'UATION Free FoOd . •· ·- . . ' \. - Tomorrow. Night Mafc,h 6,-10 p.m. O:ld Chapel . A.D. Phi needs waiters aud waitresses to serve food and wash dishes for fre~ food and salary. Call 382-9688 J Ask for Dave Weeks or leave message with your 9ft number. FRATERNITY CATAGORY: ZBT- 41 PHI NEAT GUYS - 40 '1 - DORMS: WCKOK- 27\ WEST- 26 I)AVIDSON- 7 INDEPENDENTS: FUzzy NUTS - 25 MAKES A NICE SANDWICH -18 NILG'ON YIGIT BOGOT~ FAN CLUB - 10 FOURPIAY-7 M &: M SOCIAL CLUB - 2 ? The foDowing had one point: Chris,, The Lonely Guys, Rich Chffiout Crew, Beaver St. Boys, Gus, Candy Company, Basement Boys, Fisher's Rent-a-Rug ·STUMPERS: 28 I I • Congratula.tions ~;-~;a~;m;• s~· ~~~i!\l\ii\~!)[\\.J

Page 18 This week's article will take a different approach in the topic of sports. I ·have chosen an ordinary Uni()u student to in- terview concerning llis views and feelings in the world of sports. The man I have chosen is John F. muller, an ordinary man with extracrdinary magnitude. MZ: Welcome, Jolln, it's a pleasure to have yoa. A little backgroand first, were y()u active in sports ,previous to your time at Union College? JM: Thank you. Well of course I was well rounded in the field of sports as you can tell from my waistline. MZ: Do you feel that the new gym has enhanced your athletic prowess? J.M: Well, I am proud to say that I have been to the gym every day since its inception. May I state that I am unin- timidated and undaunted in my d()gged quest fer the perfect oody. And may I add that there are not enough chicks at the gym. MZ: Do you feel that the new gym has had a great irnpact on JM: Of course geekl The psychological effects of intense physical exercise have cleared my mind from the rigoroas mental strains of Union's academic demands. MZ: Moving away from the Union College sports world to a larger spectrum, how does the new baseball season shape up in your mind? JM: Big story. The Yankees. World Champions, no doubt. The top offensive team in basexall will have no less than five regular- players in the lineup with at leam a .300 avg., 90 RBI's and 25 HR's each. In addition, there will be 4 fifteen game winners in their starting rotation. My surprise prediction CONCORDlENSlS, March 5, 1987 NOT IN ·rH:E BOX ,SCO·RE Mar.k Zimmerman is that the 'Yankees will pick up Phil Niekr() for the September stretch rm. MZ: ThEse are very bold predictions eonsidering that the Yankees haven't done diddly in recent yeaJ.!s. How do you feel about either the Mets or RdSox chances ()f regaining their titles? J·M: Pertaining to the American League,. Boston will be in fourth place come October ... MZ: Fol.U\th place, how can you possibly say that! ! ? JM: Clemens will be batting practice for the hitters. The Mets will repeat but lose to the Dodgers ·in the playoffs. M: I'm flabbergasted. Let's move away from professional sports, I don't think my readers can take much more of these predicthns. Let me ask you this, wlly is it that all-lmowing, all-athletic- -men such as yoarself d()n't play on a varsity or junior varsity team at Union? JM: Well guy, I tend not to be enthralled in a single sport. I am an enigmatic character and tend to dabble in many diverse areas ()f society. MZ: J()hn, Pd like to stay and talk to yoll but I think your Mom is calliii.g y()a. JM: Thaliks kid this was key. MZ: Wllere are you off to now? JM: I'm teaching a workoat seminar ill the gym entitled ''The Marshmallow Republic: Pizza a111l Beer Do Build Muscles.\ MZ: Well, that's all for this week, if you would like t() corresp<>nd with John on his new c<Jurse or any other topics of interest, feel free to write to him atB()'X No. 1574. I'm sure he will be able to assist you in any way. C!tnncnritiensis .SPORTS How They Matc:h Up 19b6-.U7 UNION COLLEGE VARSITY BASKETBALL RClSlER No. N arne Yr. Pos. Ht. Wt. 10 Tom Beck** Jr. G 5 I 10 V60 12 Jon Mapstone St. 13 Mike Arieta ft. c 6 1 5 ~20 G 6 1 0 180 15 M~rk Tru~eau Fr. F/G 6 1 3 175 20 Scott Gibbs So. G 6 I 2 185 22 Steve ~eBalso** Jt. G 6 I 3 i 80 23 Joe Scott So. F 6 I 2 190 24 Joe Romer* Jr. F 6 1 4 195' 31 Kurt fox** ·Jr. c 6 1 5 205 32 ~oug Greg~ry* So. F 6'5 1'95 33 Neil Winawer** Sr. F 6 I() 190 50 Ken Lerine** Sr, G 6'1 184 *indicates .number of Head Coach: Bill Scanlon vars.ity letters liOil. Ho1netown Brockport, NY Plattsburgh, NY Kingston., MA Ti col)derog.a, :NY Brockport, NY Sherrill, NY Hoosi.ck fls, NY Rensselaer, N•Y F atrport, NY Leeds., MA N,esconset, NV ~rdsley., NY H.igh School Brockport Plattsburgh Silver take Ticonderoga Hilton Vernon-Verona Hoosiek Falls Colum·bia Fairpqrt ~orthampt.on Smithtown E. Ardsley Assistants: Bob Montana. Bob Pe,zzano Captain: Ken levine Managers: M.ark Van Buren. Phil iaccheo Nickname: Dutchmen Division ll West FiliAL W L T' Pet Ov•rtll ~let!sburg~ 23 1 ~· .958 28 5 0 Hamilton IS 5 Q .750 17 6 0 ·01wego 20 ' 0 .619 20 9 0 FliT 13 ' 0 -~· 16 11 0 Elmlre II 8 0 .636 IS l 0 Canl~ius 13 9 C· .591 20 10 0 Gene~o I~ 13 0 .562 19 16 0 Union t 12 e .429 ' 15 0 Potsdam 11 IS 0 .423 11 IT 0 Brockp·orl 8 13 1 .3& 10 lA 1 Hotla rt I 16 0 .333 9 16 0 St Ilona 2 7 0 .222 16 10 0 Cortland 2 14 0 .125 I 17 0 Buffl!lto 2 19 1 .m 5 19 1 Oswego A, Elmir1 3 H~mllton 1•. Geneseo 1 Canisi\Js ~ RIT 0 Ctnlshn (21·1~) 81 Plattsburgh (28- Sl Osw{IO (21-t) at H3mlllon (IIW) rt Hoopsters· Saturday Night at the Field House- 8:00sharpl The Truth (VE Rl TASJ About Sports ByJAYM.GR()SSMAN I wa~ a stranger to this en- before retiring last year. After viromnent and my only links to he walked away, I kept an eye the past were the assistant .on him for the rest of the game. coaches behind the bench for The Harvard Security Officer both teams (Mark Morris for St. wouldn't allow him in the press Lawr.e11ee and Ronn Tomassoni box and there were no for Harvard) who had .autograph seekers this evening. prevbusly been assistants 'This intrigued me because I under Urii()n Coach Charlie -ltnew that if he were in any NHL Morrison. Also, the referee has artlaa and perhaps any other frequently donned the black and college arena, he would have white stripes at Union games been hoanded by those who and bas been known to me ()nly wanted his signature. J3ut at as ''Harry.\ Despite this, I Harvard, he was just another seemed. wor·lds away from standing room ticket\'holder ami Schenectady once the game was not recoguized. After allp began. how could he compete wit!J This weekend I ventured to Cambridge, Massachusetts for the final regl,llar season hockey game between Harvard and St. Lawrence. Formuch of the past two seasons, the Harvard team has exemplified what a college athletic program should stand for: the combination of the nation's top academic in- stitution with a nationally ranked team. Last year, Harvard went to the NCAA finals, only to lose to Michigan State (avg. SAT-970) and this season they have compiled a 22- 4 record overall. Harvard jumped out to a 2-0 Harvard alumni? Many of these lead early in the game. Since men (and women) were in the_ · they had only lost one other top echelon ()f our society, As I walked into the Bright Hockey Center just across the river from Harvard Square, I could feel the aura of the university. Unlike other schools, the list ()f major con~ tributors to its facilities in- cluded names such as RockefeUer, Kennedy, Bingham, Morgan, and Gan- nett. Harvard bas one of the finest college hockey arenas in the nation and its fans were very upright and elitist. I felt like I was watching a polo match in the cold. Only the Harvard freshmen in their maroon blazers and the few St. Lawrence fans were making any noise. ECA.C game all season long, I dominating government, figured this would . just be education, science, and the arts. another rout. Bat then, two The second period was a tight- goals in the last three minutes checking stanza, but neither of the first period tied the score team could manage a goal and and made the game more ex.. the teams moved into the final citing f()~ me although the fans period with .the score 2-2. did not seem too worried. Harvard came out flying in the As I \Was walking around the . third with agoal from Steve arena, I 'Walked into a familiar .Armstrong, a junior from. face: former New York Ithaca, New York. Again, it l$18llder Coach Al Arbour. l appeared that Harvard would inttodu<!ed myself and talked ~ain the upper hand, bat the hockey 'With him for a few tough St. Lawrence team.fougbt minutes. Coming from ·New back and· six minutes later York, I had . respected his Peter Lappin, the team's coa(hiiig abill:ty although I leading scorer tied the game disliked that he led the rival and forced the team int() Islanders to four Stanley Cups overtime. The Harvard fans were not flustered but the few St. Lawrence supporters were ecstatic. In front of me, I noticed a seven year~ld boy falling asleep on his .father's lap. He was dressed in a tweed blazer,. blue-striped oxford, and penny loafers. The game was even more thrilling when the overtime _began. I noticed Arbour looking · over the shoulders of the fans standing in froat of him. After being involved in over 2;000 NHL games as a player and > ..... 'iii I. (j) > ·c: ::) \C I. Ill > .I. Ill :r: > .c o· +- 0 J: 0. coach, I would have thollght that he would have left bng ago. Morris :was biting hiS mails and pacing frantically behincl the St. Lawrence bench. But, behind the Harvarq bene~, Tomassoni was calm. Then, f()ur minutes into the overtime, Dave Saunders cruised down. the left wing and blasted the .pllck past Harvard's Dickie Mc&voy. For Harvard, it appeared that not even the ghost of· T .S. Eliot C()Wd stop that last ·sllot. I I I .I

Page 18 This week's article will take a different approach in the tepic of sports. I have cl10sen an ordinary Union st11dent to in- terview concerning his views and feelings in th€ world of sports. The man I have chosen is John F. muller, a11 ordinary man with extraordinary magnitude. MZ: Welcome, John, it's a pleasure to have you. A little background first, were you active in sports previous to your time at Union College? JM: Thank yQu. Well of course I was well rounded in the field of sports as you can tell from my waistline. MZ: Do you feel that the new gym has enhanced y() ur athletic prowess? JM: Well, I am pr<Jud to say that I have been to the gym every day since its inception. May I state that I am unin- timidated and u:ndaunted in my dogged quest for the perfect body. And may I add that there are not enough chicks at the gym. MZ: Do you feel tllat the new gym has had a great impact on JM: Of course geek! The psychological effects of intense physical exercise ha. ve cleared my mind from thE rigorous mental strains of Union's academic demands. MZ: Moving away from the Union College sp()rts world to a larger spectrum, how does the new baseball season shape up in your mind? JM: Big story. ThE Yankees. World Champions, no doubt. The top offensive team in basexall will have ao less than five regular players in the lineup with at least a .300 avg., 90 RBI's and 25 HR's each. In addition, there will be 4 fifteen game winners in thEir starting rotation. My surprise prediction NOT IN THE BOX SCO,RE Mark Zi:mmerman is that the Yankees will pick up Phil Niekro for the SeptembEr stretch run. MZ: These are very b()ld predictions considering that the Yankees haven't done diddly in recent years. How do you feel a beut either the Mets or Rd Sox chances of regaining their titles? JM: Pertain.ing to tlle American League, Boston will be in fourth place come October ... MZ: Fourth place, how can you possibly say that! ! ? JM: Clemens will be batting practice for the hitters. The Mets will repeat but lose to the Dodgers in the playoffs. M: I'm flabbergasted. Let's move away from professional sports, I don't think my readers can take much more of these predictions. Let me ask y()U this, why is it that all-knowillg, all-athletic men such as yourself don't play on a varsity or junior varsity team at Union? JM: Well guy, I tend not to be enthralled in a single sport. I am an enigmatic character and tend to dabble in many diverse areas of society. MZ: John, I'd like to stay and talk to you but I think your M<Jm is calling you. JM: Thanks kid this was key. MZ: Where are you off to now? JM: I'm teaching a workout seminar in the gym entitled \The Marshmallow Republic: Pizza and Beer Do Build Muscles.\ MZ: Well, that's all for this week, if you would like to correspond with John on his new course or any other topics of interest, feel free to write to him at Box No. 1574. I'm sure he will be able to assist you in any way. CONCORDIENSJS, March 5, 1987 C!tnncnrbienliis SPORTS How They Match Up l9b6-I:S7 UNION COLLEGE VI\RSI TV BASKETB·ALL ROSTER No. Yr. Pos. Ht. Wt. Hometown 10 Tom Beck** Jr. G 5 I 10 160 Brockpo:r t, NY Brockport 1 2 J·on Maps tone So. c 6'5 220 Plat tsburg:h, NY Plattsburgh 1 3 Mike Ad eta Fr. G 6'0 180 Kingston, MA Silver Lake 1 5 Mark T r ud.e au Fr. F/G 6'3 175 Ticonderoga, NY Ticonderoga 20 Scott Gibbs So. G 6'2 1 85 Brockport, NY Hilton 22 Steve BeBalso** Jr. G 6'3 1 a:o Sherrill, NY Vernon-Verona 23 Joe Scott So. F 6'2 1 90 Hoosick F 1 s , NY Hoosick Fa 11 s 24 Joe Rom.er* Jr. F 6'4 195 Rensselaer, NY Columbia 3 1 Kurt Fox** Jr. c 6'5 205 Fairport, NY Fairport 32 Doug Greg.ory* So. F 6 '5 195 Leeds, MA Northampton 33 Nei 1 Winawer** Sr. F 6'() 190 Nesconset, NY Smithtown E. 50 Ken Levine** Sr. G 6' 1 184 A•r d s 1 e y. NY *ind1cates n urn ber of varsity letters won. Ards 1.ey Head Coach: B 1 1 1 Scanlon Assistants: Bob Montana, Bob Pezzano C~ptain: Ken Lev1ne Managers: Mark Van Btlren, phi 1 Zaccheo 'Nickname: Dutchmen lt8&-B7 Alfted University Men'' Basketball RO$ter No. Player Yr. Pos. Ht. Wt. Hometown High School l1 Sri an Andrews Sr. G 5 '1 0 Hi5 liornell, NY Hornell 15 Howard Dewy Fr. G 5. ll 160 Hoosick Fls, f(.Y Suffield Acad. 21 Mike Casseri 24 Sean Wilson 30 Oerrek Ji!C k ii-on 31 Robert Kr>rnaker 32 Paul liarding 33 Mike f.alowski 34 Mike ll.ing 41 tom Hall 50 Todd Prince 52 Chti s. Tighe Head c.(Ja·ch: Assistants: C ap.ta ins: Nickname; Division II West FINAL W L T Pet Platl•burqh 7l 1 0 .'158 Hamilton 15 5 0 . 750 Oswtgo 70 9 0 .M' fliT 13 6 0 684 !:lmln 14 1 0 .636 Cant.,us 13 9 0 .5'11 Genp~o 16 13 0 S62 UniOI! 9 12 G .429 Pot\darn 1\ 15 0 423 Bro<:t.oort I 13 I 386 Hobart 8 I' 0 333 St BoM 2 7 0 222 Cortland 2 U 0 .1~ Buffalo 2 1~ 1 11<1 Playofu Quarttrfinall Sal'llrda\\1 RIMYitl O'ltrlll 28 50 17 6 0 2() 9 0 16 11 0 15 8 0 20 lO 0 19 16 0 915 0 11 17 0 10 u 1 9 16 0 16 10 0 • 17 0 5 19 1 Oswe~ 4. Elm1r1 3 Hamllfon 14, GEn~ 1 Canmus 2. RIT 0 CenlsiU> (2\·1~1 al i>lattsburgh (:18- SI Oswego (li-t) at .._mllfon ( 1H1 J'r. G 5'10 165 Ruffalo, NY Kenmore w. Fr. f 6'4 190 E. Norwich, NY St. Dominies Fr. F 6'3 190 P lt ts ford, NY Sperry Fr. G/F 6'2 175 Rochester, NY Gates-Chili So. G 6'0 1 75 Wa11tagh, NY St. Dominies Fr. F 6'3 180 'tl ood s. 'ide, NY Bi sh. Molloy Sr. C/F 6'7 215 Brooklyn, NY Xaver ian Fr. c 6'8 190 Quaker Hill, CT St. Bernards So. F 6'5 215 llilt.on, NY Jr. F 6'5 200 W {)(ld.bur y, Ron Frederes Kevin ~norej Ernie Childers Mi•e Wing, Brian Andrews sa,ons Union Hockey FINAL Rttm t.UECA(,9.1Sevtl'd $coring Ntlson S&ill D~~an~ Joyce G11ry Tl!mush Scol! Cyr Hilton NY Syossette Pete Cotler 11 Q s Keith Robertson :13 I l To~d lWtlMQe II I 2 J~l ~rard 16 l 2 R o~ l<lnl)llo rn ~~ 0 l Se•n Norton 2'1 0 I Rick Rockett 7 I 0 Bi11St10W 19 1 0 Chip H9lmes I ll 0 Mark Porn~ 2 0 0 Mike R•ymon(f l 0 0 Pllll Ml!CL~vghlin 1 0 0 Jlm Maclaughlin • 0 0 John Nolan l 0 0 Toby o·arien 13 0 0 T~rry llathwell 2 0 0 Gqalttlldllll ~ • 3 3 3 1 I l 0 0 0 j) c 0 0 (l Oa¥t Appleby Marc \W5Ju&n Chri$ Hunt• ngton Clan Goulc:l Oanetl Gust~kon S<:ott Manley · Guy LQilan Gill G A 111' 23 13 Zl 34 ,, 12 17 19 23 ~~ 9 H 1l i' 9 \ 2G 3 l5 1l 24 $ u l6 23 7 7 14 24 3 I 11 24 3 1 10 24 s s 10 18 4 s 9 2l 2 s 7 13 :2 3 5 <Om Min Sv GA GAA 0'8rltn 13 6111 362' 5.i 4.61 14 635· 296 Nfc~ Baratoff Darren Stephens K.ingllom Rt1hw~ll 1 Sol 1211 sa 12 Support Hoopsters Saturday Night at the Field House- 8:00 sharp! uo 6.® The Truth (VERI TAS) About Sports ByJAYM.GROSSMAN I was a stranger to this en- before retiring last year. After vironment and my only links to he walked away, I kept an eye This weekend I ventured to Cambridge, Massachusetts for the final regular season hockey game between Hanard and St. Lawrence. For much ·of the past two seasons, the Harvard team has exemplified what a college athletic program sllould stand for: the combination of the nation's top academic in- stitution with a nationally ranked team. Last year, Harvard went t() the NCAA finals, only to lose to Michigan State ( avg. SA.T-'970) and this season they have C()rnpiled a 22- 4 record overall. As I walked intQ the Bright Hockey Centei just across the river from Harvard Square, I could feel the aura of the university. Unlike other schools, the list of major con· tributors to Us facilities in· eluded nan1es such as Rockefeller, Kennedy, Bingham, Morgan, and Gan· nett. Harvard has one of the finest college h()ckey arenas in the nation and its fans were very upright a11d elitist. I felt like I was watc:hing a polo match in the cold. Only the Harvard freshmen in their maroon blazer5 am! the few St. Lawrence falls \l'Vere making any noise. the past were the assistant on him for the rest of the game. coaches behind the bench for The Harvard Security Officer both teams (Mark Morris for St. wouldn't allow him in the press Lawrence and Ronn Tomassoni box and there were no for Harvard) who had autograph seekers this evening. previously been assistants This intrigued me because I under Union Coach Cllarlie knew that if he were in any NHL Morrison. Also, the referee has arena and perhaps any other frequently donned the black and college arena, he would have white stripes at Union games been hounded by those who and has been known to me only wanted his signature. But at as \Harry.\ Despite this, I Harvard, he was just another seemed worlds a way from standing room ticket-holder and Schenectady once the game was not recognized. After all, began. how could he compete with Harvard jumped out to a 2-0 Harvard alumni? Many of these lead early in the game. Since men (and women) were in the they had only lost one Qther top echelon of our society, ECAC game all season long, I dominating government, figured this would just be education, science, and the arts. another rout. But then, two The second period was a tight- goals in the last three minutes checking stanza, but neither of the first period tied the score team could manage a goal and and made the game moie ex- the teams moved into the final citing for me although the fans period with the score 2-2. did not seem too worried. Harvard came out flying in the As I was walking around the third with agoal from Steve arena, I walked into a familiar Armstrong, a junior from face: former New York Ithaca, New York. Again, it Islander Coach AI Arbour. I appeared that Harvard would introduced myself and talked gain the uppe1· hand, but the hockey with him for a few tough St. Lawrence team fought minutes. Coming from New back and six minutes later York, I had respected his Peter Lappin, the team's coaching ability although I leading scorer tied the game disliked that he led the rival and forced the team into Islanders to four Stanley Cups overtime. The Harvard fans > - \iii .... (!) > c ::> \tl .... 10 > ..... 10 :::c > .0 0 +- 0 .c 0.. hi arvard Captain Peter Chiarelli were not flustered but the few St. Lawrence supporters were ecstatic. In front of me, I noticed a seven year-old boy falling asleep on his father's lap. He was dressed in a tweed blazer, blue-striped oxford, and penny loafers. The game was even more thrilling when the overtime began. I noticed Arbour looking over the shoulders of the fans standing in front of him. After being involved in over 2,000 NHL games as a player and coach, I would have thought that he would have left long ago. Morris was biting his nails and pacing frantically behind the St. Lawrence bench. But, behind the Harvard bench, Tomassoni was cahn. Then, four minutes into the overtime, Dave SaWlders cruised down the left wing and blasted the puck past Harvard's Dickie McEvoy. For Harvard, it appeared that not even the ghost of· T .S. Eliot could stop that last shot.

I j LEIDEN, HOL~The ho~key caree;rs .for most Slating Putchmen end after tbeir last game in Garn~t a.nd Wbite. But for former Union players ·Gill Egan and John Mackenzie it s.eems as if their eareers could just b~ starting. Egan and Mackenzie left their llomes in Nepean, Ontario in the early fall for Assen, Holland to play professional ice hockey. Sihce then, the two former Union standouts have led their t,eam to the Northern Holland Division II championship. 'The ice hockey club of Assen led by Egan, Mackenzie. and three other Canadiens is carrently competing in the .. playoffs against the Divi.sion H champions from Belgi~ and two Division I Dutch teams. They are competing for the opportWlity to play in Holland's Division I next season. \When I left home I didn't lmow what to-ex:pect. But after a sho1't transition period this has been a great experience,\ said Mackenzie. · Egan, the former two time U11ion Captain and all~time Giii'E.gah Lady. Runners Do.Well at State Meet By WOMEN'S TRACK TEAM The Union women's track t.eam rubbed elbows with the finest athletes .in the state tbis past weekend, as they made tbe tri.p west to HamiltDn College to compete in the state <!hampionship meet. Although ()n}y a small contingent of women made the trip, those who competed represented Union 'Well. They set several school records and season bests. The lady Dutchmen scored three points to finish thirteenth out of fourteen teams in the field, but that figure is misleading. It was .obvious that the women's track program has made vast strides this· season. The University of Rochester captured the meet, as they piled up 127 points to easily outdistance second pla(,!e · Ithaca (113). Sophomore Lorie • Anderson continued to show her ver- satility as she captured fifth place in the pentathalon, a · grueling five event challenge. .AndersQn finished strong-ly, docking her best 800 meter time of the year to tally 2,190 points. Junior Jen Lee alSo shined for the la(ly Dutchmen as she lowered her own school record in the 800 meters, set previously this season. Lee ran 2:27.50 in the semifinals of that event, then came back torwr2:27.67 in the finals, good . enough for seventh place. Lee also teamed ·looking,.lf Sports By Charli'e Slotai·k Dutchmen leading goal scopeor, and Mackenzie, a four •y-ear varsity letterman are 'l'l() strangers to Winning.. :Bo()tlt played on Charlie Morritloll~s 1985 E.C.A.C. championsliip team and competed in tbe N.C.A.A. championships. · \Charlie had a winning llt- titude at Union, we've bro11gllt that same attitude QVer to Europe and it's worked,\ ad.led 0 Egan. 'Ei· Although it is the hockey that a initially brought the two ovel' io o HoUand, they have begU)l. io (/) appreciate Dutch life· and al'e enjoYing t:tte opportunity of living in a foreign coUJl<1ty. Moreover, they are taldng Dutch class twice a wee~ in order to learn the D11tch language. \Many things are diff'el'ent over here, from the food we eat to the television programs ~e watch, We've become ased,tC~it, but still occasionally ·miss 't:ile comforts of home, \ :sa.id Mackenzie. Furthermore, Egan. ~11d Mackenzie have volunteere.l to .c.oach a youth hockey tea!}rl· ·ill Asse,n, which has enabled tb~m to bewme even more visible in the community. . \It's a nice feeling to !Ileet · new people tbat have v~rY different backgrounds t.h:an Y.Qut own, but yet still si:Iaa·.e a common interest-hockey. It~s a nice way to make friends,\ said Egan. Both Mackenzie and FJg;an have been taking h()eltey seriously. But they admit tbat during the .. regu).ar season dueto some of the lopsided scores that they were winning by, tiley sometimes lost interest in the game by the third period. However, since the play01ffs have started the competiiti()n up with Julie Halpern, CLaire Ginsberg-Lytle, and Slierry Cargile to run a season's !Je:;t of 4:21.07 in the 4 x 400 relt~y, 'I'he women .finished sixth in the event to pick up Union's ()ither point. Lytle finished off 11 fine rookie season in track vwllll a 63.44 second timing in tl:le open 400 meter event. Lytle, wmo !tad never . competed in track prior to this season, lowered the school record which she :s13t at e-nzie has become much:rn()~e intense and the team is relyin~ on them to cavry much of tile scoring load. In a recent 11-:J win over Division I Eindhove11,.Egan had a bat trick and MadellZie had the game winning g(J~tJ. Thelr team finislled the regular season witll a 31-2-1 record, and their illdividual statistics are eq11a:Jly im- pressive. Eganhad..74'Jloals and 35 assists and Mackenzie's 61 points were the most p()ints for a defenseman on the team. Buf thus far in the four .tea.m round· robin playoff Assen CJllly boasts a 3-2-1 record, and ,ooust get on the winning trackif tltey are t<J make t}le jump ,to J)iV.ision I next year .. Regardless if Assen qualifies .for Division I or .not, it. appears that both Egan a11d lv.la.ckenzie will be on a Divisi()nU.earn next year as several telrnls have expressed interest iE tllem. Perhaps Egan strr:nmarized their- . reason for (.!CJilli.ng to Holland best, \The b()ckey is fun, the European eJqEr'ience is great, and it beats are~L jol> any day of the week.'' Charlie Slotnik isJ)resently in H ol/and on a tern1 illJroad. the Union Women'sinvitational last month. The filial school record of the day :J).eL{)nged to Julie Halpern. Halpern blazed to a 9.84 second timE in the 55 meter hurdles to flnisb. seventh, just ·out of the sco1.1ing. The women's trad~ team now begins their rest and tecovery period as they atuiously look forward to the arri-val of spring and fast performanc::es on the outdoor track. Pagel9 tnnntttrbiensis .SPORTS With a Perspective On Sports Andrew Miller Pt. 1'1 (Cont' d. from last week) . . Rally caps-out. What more . can l say? , . Tom Seaver couldn't agr.ee on · - a contra~ with the Red Sox, as · . a reslilt his glorious career · comes to an abrupt end. · Final!J.y the San Diego Chicken .is out. 'lhe Chicken belongs more at the half time show for Major In.door Soccer than pr<J baseball. Pro F()otbaU: the ten-minute ticker is \in.\ The network l~ventioil keeps the football junkeesup te date and everyone else from flipping stations to catch 11p ()fi scores. HBG is &'in\ for professional football. Get your subscriptions renewed for before you know it you will h.ave to pay to watch your fav()r-ite team play on TV. Prospeeted HBO-NFL game packages could come as early as 1989i. · Phil M<:Conkey, Mosi Tatupu, and Howie Long are in for87;.a8. \The Spaz,\ \The Battering Ram,\ a11d \The Eliminator\ are hot propelties and should continae to be crowd favorites. As for .outstanding talent, the quarterback class of 1983 is a must to headline the \in\ list. Eason, Marin(), Elway, and O'Brien are the class of the league and will continue to lead their teams into the playoffs. In the TV category the NBC NFL Today program with Bob Costas t<Jps tbe networks pre- game snows. Costas and Ahmad Rashad, with the additioll of the multi-talented Frank Deford, comprise an informatlve and humorous team. The \()lit\ column spans the spectrum of pro-football. The Bears and more specifically the \Fridg;e\ are out. The wave of the two ton appliance's popUlarlty was faster than the fall of Michael Jackson. Jimmy the Greek hit rock bottom in the '86-'87 season, and more than anyone deserves to be on .the' 'out\ list. The Gre.ek.'s predictims were simply awful. His fin<11l season percentage hedged around the 30 percent mark. Jimmy shoUld stick to selling cigars. The !)to bowl is out! Yawn. The wave and Brent Musberger seem tO. fit the same \out\ category. They are both bOring and get in the way of the fan who is really trying to watch the same~ Sorry Brent. The prClposed NFL strike is the epitome of where we hope it won't bei:n '87; The strike could be the most lengthy and costly of any professional sports strike in history-. Let's hope the action this year will be on the playing field and not at the bargaining table. Atlanta, Utah, Washington, and Indiana are the teams to watch on the \in\ list for pro hoops. 'The Jazz just may be the team to break the stranglehold the Lak:ers and Rockets have on the rights to . oppose the Celtics in the NBA .finals. Washington, Atlanta, and Indiana will give teams fits in the playoffs and will be around to challenge the Celtics for a finals spot in '88 .. The SLam Dunk and Three- point contests are ''in\ for the division <Jf pure entertainment, and so are the winners of these events. Michael Jordan and Larry llird Speaking of dunks, the ~A says goodbye to one of its best .slammer and playEr' ever to step on the court, Dr. J_ The good doctor will say goodbye to the game of basketball at the dose of the ~~? season. He will be missed. Spud Webb, Ralph SampS()J:l and Jack Nicholson highlight the N:BA \out\ list. We've jwt about seen enough of the \flyillg pigmee,\ \cry baby,'' a11d \cuckoos nest.\ College hoop finds Pitt, t:he surprise of the Big East, top- ping the \in'·' list. Pittsburt!h has ,surprised everyone this season and will continue thEir strong play right into the fiilaJ four. The Big East also shar~ billing with its top gun - Pitt. The Big East contains 5 of thoe nation's top 20 teams. St. Jolms,. Providence, Pitt, Syracuse, and Georgetown all have thoe capability, draw permitting, ()£ creating an all Big East Final Four or championship game. Rex Chapman, \MI:\. Downtown,\ and UNLV roun<l out the \in\ players and teams, Chapman, the three- oi11t specialist is part of the rising tide of downtown cylinder fillers. The Running Rebels C3f UNLV, the nation's No. 1 team with the No.1 school nickname, hasthe talent and depth to talce the national title. The non-playing \in\ list members consist of AI Maglliie and the Duke fans. MaguirE's debut on network TV was a ion~ time coming, he is insightful and excitable, to say the least. Cannnaroon Indoor Stadiwn, home of the Duke Blue Devils and their out of this world fans, is a IQust stop on any hmp enthusiast's tour. The \out\ list is self· ex:planatory-the sagging ACC, the decline of Louisville, N()Jth Carolina, and NC State, alolig with their coaches have to ·bE a shocker to pre-season poller:s. Hockey rounds out o11r evaluation of American Sport, or in this case Canadian. Tile U.S.-Soviet challenge, Rencle2• Vous87 was a windfall bonus fot· hockey fans. The game featuring the best NHL a11d Soviet hockey players was .. n ex:hibition in sportsmanship a11d superb hoc~ey. The team and playerto wa t<!h in the '87 NHL season is tlle Hartford Whalers and Mario Lemieux, Pittsburgh's talen:ted center. The Whalers are off to a fast start and will be able to successfully challen~e Edmonton for the Stanley Cu~. Lemieux is the bright spot on an otherwise dismal team. 1he Penguins center may not be tne ''Great One,\ but he could jllst be the nex:t best thing. Hockey's \out \list is simple. Please, Vancouver, change tile uniform and the name. Oran~e, yellow, and black is frightellillg. It lo()ks. more like a Halloween costtune than a hockey uniform. And the name, what is a Can- nuck? The Pathetic Nort\is division closes out where it is not in '87. It is sure not ill 5 teams with losing records. The Miscellaneous ColUillll IN: Wally Ball, Bo Jacltson, Philadelphia Eagles, DaNe Henderson, and Kevin CurrEn. OUT: Throwing fruit, the ·barnyard cheer, and B~ris \don't call me boom b<>om\ Becker. tiJ.. .... .....

0 .... 0 ..c a. D - VI LEJDEN, HOLLAND-The hockey careers for most Skating Dutchmen end after their last game in Garnet and White. But £or former Union players Gill Egan and John Mackenzie it seems as if their careers could just be starting. Egan and Mackenzie left their homes in Nepean, Ontario in the early fall for Assen, Holland to play professional ice hockey. Since then, the two former Union standouts have led their teaxn to the Northern Holland Divisioll II champi<mship. The ice hockey club of Assen led by Egan, Mackenzie and three other Canadiens is currently competing in the playoffs against the Division II chanpions from Belgium and two Division I Dutch teams. They are competing for the opportunity to play in Holland's Division I next season. \When I left home I didn't know what to expect. But after a short transition period this has been a great experience,\ said Mackenzie. Egan, the former two time Union Captain and all-time Gill Egan lady Runners Do Well at State Meet By WOMEN'S TRACK TEAM The Union women's track team rubbed elbows with the finest athletes in the state this past weekend, as they made the trip west to Hamilton College to compete in the state championship meet. Although only a small contingent of women made the trip, those who competed represented Union well. They set several school records and season bests. The lady Dutclunen scored three points to finish thirteenth out of fourteen teams in the field, but that figure is misleading. It was obvious that the women's track program has made vast strides this season. The University of Rochester captured the meet, as they piled up 127 points to easily outdistance second place Ithaca (113). Sophomore Lorie . Anderson continued to show her ver- satility as she captured fifth place in the pentathalon, a graeling five event challenge. Anderson finished strongly, clocking her best BOO meter time of the year to tally 2,190 points. Junior Jen Lee also shined for the lady Dutchmen as she lowered her own school record in the 800 meters, set previously this season. Lee ran 2: 27.50 in the semifinals of that event, then came back to run 2:27.67 in the finals, good enough for seventh place. Lee also teamed Loo:king At Sp·o·rts By Charlie S;lotnik Dutchmen leading goal scorer,. and Mackenzie, a four year vars~ty letterman are no strangers to winning. Both played on Char1ie Morrison's 1981> E.C.A.C. championship team and competed in the N.C.A.A. championships. \Charlie had a winning at- titude at Union, we've brought that same attitude over to Europe and it's worked,\ added 0 Egan. o Although it is the hockey that ~ initially brought the two over to e Holland, they have begun to VI appreciate Dutch life and are enjoying the opportunity of living in a foreign country. Moreover, they are taking Dutch class twice a week in order to learn the Dutch language. \Many things are different over here, from the food we eat to the television programs we watch. We've become used to it, but still occasionally miss the comforts of home,\ said Mackenzie. Furthermore, Egan and Mackenzie have volunteered to _ c,oach a youth hockey team in Ass~n, which has enabled them to become even more visible in the coxhmunity. \It's a nice feeling to meet new people that have very different backgrounds than X9tlr own, but yet still share a common interest-hockey. It's a nice way to make friends,\said Egan. Both Mackenzie and Egan have been taking hockey seriously. But they admit that during the regular season due to some of the lopsided scores that they were winning by, they sometimes lost interest in the game by the third period. However, since the playoffs have started the competition up with Julie Halpern, Claire Ginsberg-Lytle, and Sherry Cargile to run a season's best of 4: 21.07 in the 4 x 400 relay. The women finished sixth in the event to pick up Union's other point. Lytle finished off a fine rookie season in track with a 63.44 second timing in the open 400 meter event. Lytle, who had never competed in track prior to this season, lowered the school record which she set at Ma enzie has become much more intense and the team is relying on them to carry much of the scoring load. In a recen.t 11-9 win over Division I Eindhoven, Egan had a hat trick and Mackenzie had the game winning goal. Their team finished the regular season with a 31-2-1 record, and their individual statistics are equally im- pressive. Egan had 74 goals and 35 assists and Mackenzie's 61 points were the most points for a defenseman on the team. But thus far in the four team round- robin playoff Assen only boasts a 3-2-1 record, and must get on the winning track if they are t() make the jump to Division r next year. Regardless if Assen qualifies for Division I or not, it appears that both Egan and Mackenzie will be on a Division I team next year as several teams have expressed interest in them. Perhaps Egan summarized their reason for coming to Holland best, \The hockey is fun, the European experience is great, and it beats a real job any day of the week.\ Charlie Slotnik is presently i11 Holland on a term abroad. the Union Women's Invitational last month. The final school record of the day belonged to Julie Halpern. Halpern blazed to a 9.84 second time in the ~I> meter hurdles to finish seventh, just out of the scoring. The women's track team n()W begins their rest and recovery period as they anxiously look forward to the arrival of spring and fast performances on the outdoor track. Page 19 <llnncor~ i.ensis SPORTS With a Perspective On Sports Pt .. II (Cont'd. from last week) Rally caps-out. What more can I say? Tom Seaver couldn't agree on a contract with the Red Sox, as a result his glorious career comes to an abrupt end. Finally the San Diego Chicken is out. The Chicken belongs more at the half time show for Major Indoor Soccer than pro basebatl. Pro Football.: the ten-minute · ticker is \in.\ The network ;:-~vention keeps the football junkees up to date and everyone else from flipping stations to catch up on scores. HBO is \in\ for professional football. Get your subscriptions renewed for before you know it you will have to pay to watch your favorite team play on TV. Prospected HBO-NFL game packages could come as early as 1989. Phil McConkey, Mosi Tatupu, and Howie Long are in for 87-88. \The Spaz,\ \The Battering Ram,\ and \The Eliminator\ are hot properties and should continue to be crowd favorites. As for outstanding talent, the quarterback class of 1983 is a must to headline the \in\ list. Eason, Marino, Elway, and O'Brien are the class of the league and will continue to lead their teams into the playoffs. In the TV category the NBC NFL Today program with Bob Costas tops the networks pre- game shows. Costas and Ahmad Rashad, with the addition of the multi-talented Frank Deford, comprise an informative and humorous team. The \out\ column spans the spectrum of pro-football. The Bears and more specifically the \Fridge\ are out. Tile wave of the two ton appliance's popularity was faster than the fall of Michael Jackson. Jimmy the Greek hit rock bottom in the '86-'87 season, and more than anyone deserves to be em the \out\ list. The Greek's predictions were simply awful. His final season percentage hedged around the 30 percent mark. Jimmy should stick to selling cigars. The pro bowl is out! Yawn. The wave and Brent Musberger seem to fit the same \out\ category. They are both boring and get in the way of the fan who is really trying to watch the same. Sorry Brent. The proposed NFL strike is the epitome of where we hope it won't be in '87. The strike could be the most lengthy and costly of any professional sports strike in history. Let's hope the action this year will be on the playing field and not at the bargaining table. Atlanta, Utah, Washington, and Indiana are the teams to watch on the \in\ list for pro hoops. The Jazz just may be the team to break the stranglehold the Lakers and Rockets have on the rights to oppose the Celtics in the NBA finals. Washington, Atlanta, and Indiana will give teams fits in the playoffs and will be around to challenge the Celtics for a finals spot in '88. The Slam Dm1k and Three- point contests are \in\ for the division of pure entertainment, and so are the winners of these events, Michael Jordan and Larry Bird. Speaking of dunks, the NBA says goodbye to one of its best slammer and player ever to step on the court, Dr. J. The good doctor will say goodbye to the game of basketball at the close of the '87 season. He will be missed. Spud Webb, Ralph Sampson and Jack Nicholson highlight the NBA \out\ list. We've just about seen ~nough of the \flying pigmee,\ \cry baby,\ and \cuckoos nest.\ College hoop finds Pitt, the surprise of the Big East, top- ping the \in\ list. Pittsburgh has surprised everyone this season and will continue their strong play right into the final four. The Big East also shares billing with its top gun - Pitt. The Big East contains 5 of the nation's top 20 teams. St. Johns, Providence, Pitt, Syracuse, and Georgetown all have the capability, draw permitting, of creating an all Big East Final Four or championship game. Rex Chapman, \Mr. Downtown,\ and UNLV round out the \in\ players and teams. Chapman, the three- oint specialist is part of the rising tide of downtown cylinder fillers. The Running Rebels of UNLV, the nation's No. 1 team with the No. 1 school nickname, has the talent and depth to talte the national title. The non-playing \in\ list members consist of AI Maguire and the D!.ike fans. Maguire's debut on network TV was a long time coming, he is insightful and excitable, to say the least. Cammaroon Indoor Stadium, home of the Duke Blue Devils and their out of this world fans, is a must stop on any hoop enthusiast's tour. The \out\ list is self- explanatory-the sagging ACC, the decline of Louisville, North Carolina, and NC State, along with their coaches have to be a shocker to pre-season pollers. Hockey rounds out our evaluation of American Sport, or in this case Canadian. The U.S.-Soviet challenge, Rendez- Vous87 was a windfall bonus for hockey fans. The game featuring the best NHL and Soviet hockey players was an exhibition in sportsmanship and superb hockey. The team and player to watch in the '87 NHL season is the Hartford Whalers and Mario Lemieux, Pittsburgh's talented center. The Whalers are off to a fast start and will be able to successfully challenge Edmonton for the Stanley Cup. Lemieux is the bright spot on an otherwise dismal team. The Penguins center may not be the \Great One,\ but he could just be the next best thing. Hockey's \out \list is simple. Please, Vancouver, change the uniform and the name. Orange, yellow, and black is frightening. It looks more like a Halloween costume than a hockey uniform. And the name, what is a Can- nuck? The Pathetic Norris division closes out where it is not in '87. It is sure not in 5 teams with losing records. The Miscellaneous Column IN: Wally Ball, Bo Jackson, Philadelphia Eagles, Dave Henderson, and Kevin Curren. OUT: Throwing fruit, the barnyard cheel', and Boris \don't call me boom boom\ Becker. - ....

. ~-. . CONOORDIENSIS, March 5, /987 /~·· ~. -_-~· Swimmers Utilize New Pool Hoops will play host to Alfred St . . March 5, 1987 ' ..• receive ECAC bid _,., Skaters Finish Season With A Win, Dutchinen Top Norwich By GAVINMOR'I'ON The Union College Skating Dutclunen finished the 1986-87 season on a positive note with narrow 7-6 victory over the Middlebury Panthers. The game was played at Mid- dlebury, Vermont on Tuesday the 24th. From the start you could tell it was not going to be a typical game and by 1:36 of the first period, Union found themselves down 2.0 on goals by Charlie Burchard and Scott Farr. On the Dutchmen's first powerplay of the night, Nelson Said put Union on the board when he fired a slapshot from the top of the right face off circle past a helpless Tony Amara. The goal came at 5:22 of the first period and was the first of two for Saj:d in the game. frame, Chris Hopkins was called for playing with out a mouth guard. Without a goal being scored for all of 11 minutes, you would have thought you were wat- ching a different game, but Duane Joyce finally tied the game once .again at 9:33. With the Dutchmen on the power play, Joyce's shot from the point deflected off a Mid- dlebury defen.seman and slid-in between the legs of the new goaltender Steve West. Joyce also ·completed the scoring and gave the Dutcbmen tne lead for good. At 14:58 of the final period Joyce blasted a shot past West and gave th~ Dut- chmen the win in their final game of the year. Ron Kinghorn played solid in the third period for Union, stopping all seven shots directed his way. The Dutchmen finished the season with a record of 9-12 in Division II and~·15 overall. Said finiShed with 34 points for the D.utchmen followed by Joyce with 29. Temusll with 28 and Cyr By MARK VAN BUREN A week ago Tuesday night, the Union College men's basketball team beat Norwich University in overtime, 72-69. Norwich entered the game with a 19-3 record and ranked 20th in the nation among Div. III - teams. Union opened up a 15•10 le~:~d on Kurt Fox's'lay-up at the 13:21 mark. An ensuing 7-4 run put the Dutchmen on top by eight, 22-14, with 8:56 left in · the opening half. The Cadets came back to close the. gap to 24·19 when Basheer Dyas converted an offensive rebound into a basket. Scott Gibbs~ 16-foot jumpshot put Union in front 28- . 19 with 4: llleft before halftime.· The two teams traded hoops f<lr the rest of the half and as the period ended, the Dutchmen led 34-25. Union began the second period by going ahead 46-33 <ln Ken Levine's fast break lay-up at the 13:47 mark .. However, following a timeout, Norwich outscored the Dutchmen 2l·l2 in the next 7lh minutes, to cut its and Appleby tied with 18. Chris Huntington notted the score at 2·2 just 4 minutes later by batting a Nick Baratoff pass between the legs of Amara. The lead was to change hands four different times and at 17:13 of the first period the Dutchmen took their first lead. Mark Goguen was the marksman for ..------------_..:.-----------...., Union, and when his fanned ••• Stenard, Mohlar shine initial shot came directly off the boards back on to his stick, he Runners Tune Up for States easily beat a surprised Amara. Said's second goal of the night was another odd goal but it upped Uruon's lead tt> 4-2. At the :24 second mark of the second period, Said's tenacious for-. checking paid off as his ina tended pass to Temush deflected off the stick of the Middlebury goaltender and dropped over the goal line. Scott Manley topped off Union's five· goal outburst with his fifth goal of the season on a cross-ice pass feed from Dan Gould at 1:46 of the second period. With a 3 goal lead early in the · period, the Dutchmen seemed to relax and get lazy as six penalties and four goals later . they foWld themselves on the bottom side of a &.5 game. Toby O'Brien played the first two periods for the Dutchmen and although he did not have much help in his oWII end, he did not help himself too Dften either as he was replaced afterthe 2nd period with just 14 saves on 20 shots. Not to be outdone, the 3rd period started off whacky and . only 40 seconds into the final The Union Men's Track team tuned up for the state meet in fine fashion Saturday at the RPI Invitational. Despite having only 12 members present, the team finiShed 5th out of 10 teams. RPI won the meet with 151 points, while Union trailed with 60. Nearly everyone on the team rail well, and no one on the team finished lower than third in any race. · · Once again, senior Rob Mohlar led tile team, as he won two events. Mohlar ran a seemingly effortless 1:55.3 anchor leg of tile two mile relay, which clocked its best tiine of the season at 8:01.9. Mohlar later came back to win his specialty event, the 800 meters, leading from start to finish with a time of 1:57.5. Two other members of the victorious two mile relay teBJil al~o ran well in · their individual events. Mike Reed finished second in the 1000 meters with a time of 2:.39.3, while junior Jeff Barker also took a second, as he ran his best time in the 500 meters this season with a 68.1. Senior Dave Weeks ran the other leg on the two mile relay, turning in a gutsy 2:05 performance. l)nion's other victo~:y came from senior Bob Stenard, in the 5000 meters. Stenard ran an evenly paced race, then used an incredible kick to edge RPI's Jim Hackett by one-tenth of a second in 16:03.0. Stenard's win came on the heels of Jim LeBrou's third place- finish in the 3000 meters. LeBrou ran the second nille of his race faster than his first as he ran 9:D&.Z, taking 8 seconds off his personal best established earlier ill the season. The Distance . Medley Relay team of Wayne Kotary, Dan Vauglm, Steve Szydlik, and Dave Defillipo rounded out · Union's scoring, as they took a strong second place with a time of 11:08.2. The Dutchmen, who seem to· be peaking at exactly the right time, travel to the state meet at St. Lawrence University thi~ weekend. While several in· dividuais on the team will look to e~cel, all eyes will be on ()Ul' two-time defending chainpioil two mile relay team of Reed, LeBrou, Barker and Mohlar. deficit to four poin.ts, 58-54. Aftertwo Union misses and two turnovers, Kelvin Jenkins' lay- up tied the score 5fl~& with 5:06 left in .regulation .play. Joe Romer's short jumpsbot in the lane gave Union some breathing room, 62-58, with 3: 12 remaining in the C(Jntest The Cadets held ·union steGreless the rest of the way;. and when Jenkins' hit a sh()rt; jumper at the 1:48 markt tile score was tied at 62. Neither team would score for the test of :regulation play and they .!leaded for overtime deadlocke<i at 62. Kurt Fox gave Uni()n the first lead in overtime witll his ~2-foot jumper. Fox's offensive rebound basket at tfue 3':,02 mark :'put the Dutclunert allead 66-62. 'Two 15•foot · jumJ)shots, the second by Wentlell \\Moore at 2:04, tied the score: ,()6-66. Two free throws by K'.en Levine :gave Union a 68-60 lea<! l2 seconds rater. Kyle Green bit a 15-foot jUmper at the 1: l:J mark· and tied the score at 61Japiece. Kurt Fox then hit two fe>lll shots to give the Dutcbmell the lead for good, 70-68, with 0:5o6 remaining in.the overtime peri()d. Darwin LewiS hit one of two, free throws to cut Union~s lead t(J 70-69, Tom · Beck converted aa~Jther pair of free throws with 0:18 left, to put the Dutchmen aheatd, 72-69. This ended the scoring a:s Union Won for the 16th time this seas(ln, Kurt Fox led four double-figure scorersforUnion with 23 points. Joe Romer followed Fox with 12 points. Ken Levine and Neil Winawer added 11 and 10 points respectively. DUTCHMEN NOTES . . . The Dutchmen closed out the regular season with a 16-S record . . .. As expected~ they received an ECAC Upstate New York Tournament bid. The Putchmen are seeded No, 4 m the 8•teatn field. They will play- hom to No. 5 Alfred on Satur.day- Mareh 7th at' 8:·00 p.m. Hamilton; 20-4, No. 1 will host· No. 8 Oswego State, No. 2 Albany State, 19-4i, will host N(). 7 HartWick and No. 3 Platt- sburgh State, 18-'1, will host No. 6 Oneonta State . . . The w'innt:r of the Union~Alfred game will play the winner of the Hamilton- Oswego State game. This semi• · final encounter will take .pla~e at the court of the higher setW.ed team ... In the New York State Region of the NCAA Tour .. nament, defending Di.v, III champion, Potsdam State, ranked No~ 1 nationally, received the top seed. Also conipeUng will be , Nazareth College (16th . m the nation)~ ICAC winner Ithaca College and SUNY -stony Brook. -·

