CXVII, No.. 19 Concordiensis Wins C:olumbia Scholastic Press Award By KENNITHBERLACK. Concordiensis, Union CollegE)'s weekly newspaper, was awarded a First Place Certificate on March 31 by the Columbia Scholastic Press Association for schools within Union's size covering the Fall Term of1987. Concordiensis, evaluated by a single judge, received · favorable ratings in several , departments of the paper, with· a total score highest among competing schools in the 2,001- 5,000 population range. Con· coridensis' editors. for the Fall Term were David Gulliver and Lee Ami Schmj(it. . . Departments fared well in Coneordiensis includeu News, Features, opinions, ~nd sports. Arts received a perfect score of fprty out of forty possible points. The overall concept of. the newspaper was issued a score of 136 out .of 150 total points for that section which reflects. the judge's opinion of the overall design of the paper and its professional approach. \It's amazing that you could :put out a paper of this caliber without a journalism course on ~ampus,\ said the judge con- cerning the enttre critique. The prize will be awarded to the newspaper at Columbia U'niversity's sixty-fifth annual contest this November, 1988. In This Issue: -The Tawana Brawley Case p .. 9 -Easter in Greece p. 11 -\Leap to Faith\ p. 16 -Union Sports Springs into Action Will the Dutch HolloVI Restaurant Pub replace: the Skellar? Skellar Hours Return to Old - Almost By R.REED WHIDDEN News Editor Spring break had come to an end and students retUl'ned to find drastic changes made concerning the open bours of the :Ratl!s:kellar. Union College . Dining Services . found it . necessary to cut back on the hours of Skellar as well as the Pizza Pu.b and West College dining hall. Although the reasons were logical many found a problem witb giving up that many hours of the S:kellar. Originally, the Skellar was open from 8:.00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Monday-Friday, from noon to 8:00p.m. on Saturday, and noon to· 12:00 J:).m. on Sunday. Food Services cb.anged toese items to exclude break- fast and weekend days. 21 Club has also been eliminated. The grill, which was operated until 11 :00 p.m., n.ow closes at !l:OO p.m. The reasons for these changes are J)rimarily based 001 • the efficiency of the system. as Vlell as from a financial stand. point. Jan Gray, director of dilling.setvices, p()inted out that it was ineffident to be running · five different food facilities at the same time. This caused . these facilities to be !'un· derutilized,\ in effect diluting business, and at fixed labor costs it is a strain on the budget. Gray also commented that the Skellar can be \a healthy, driving part ()f our enterprises and in order f().r it .be be seen in this light changes have to be made.\ See DINING SERVICES, pg, 4 1877 April 7, 1'88 U,nion To Host· .. Soviet Exchange Stu,dents ByELISEFOODY Assocaite Ne\vs Editor After spending some time touring in the Soviet Union last year, three .American college presidents became interested in developing a Soviet Union - United States Exchange Program which would enable the two countries' students to study at participating universities. Olan Robinson, president Df Middlebury College, Alice llchman of Sarah Lawrence University and David Fraser of Swarthmore College discussed the idea with Soviet Education officials and were met with encouragement and enthusiasm. President Robinson wrote letters to twenty-three . Am~l'ican college presidents (including President Morris of Union) inviting them to take part in this historical event. President Morris · discussed Union's participation in the program with Vice President of Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea and both men agreed that Union W()uld benefit by participation in the program. On March 3 a fotmal signing of the agreement took place at Middlebury. Representing the Soviet Union were two officials from the Ministry of Education and three \rectors or presidents, of Soviet colleges. Also in attendance were varioqs representatives from American colleges including Vice President D'Andrea. Union expects to host two Soviet students beginning in the fall term. However, no American students will .be ready to attend' Soviet colleges until the fall of 1989. Vice President D'Andrea mentioned that there are some lTnion students being considered for the program and that these students may he required to attend a summer language session at Middlebury. Because: the exchange program has no time constraints, Union is also contacting high schools about their students future in- volvement in the program. Vice President D'Andrea. said that what ma.kes tbe program so unique is that \it istbe first time the Soviet Union has been Willing to send undergradtrates to study in America for one year without any Russian super- vision.\ To be eligible for the exchange, the students must be college undergraduates and under the age of twenty-tlll1ee. Mistakes in Budget Plamiing Cause Dining Service Hour Cuts The United States and the Soviet Union will have co!ltrol of wbich colleges the students will attend. There are fowteen Russian universities involved in the program. The S()viet students educated at Union Will be required to follow the Union curriculum and must take at least half of their courses outside 'their major. This will ensure that if a student de~ires to major in the Sciences he or she will also be exposed to a fair amount of liberal arts courses. By DAVID GULLIVER The recent change in dining · facilities' hours was made because Dining Serviee did not • expect to meet the revenue projection in the college's budget. That budget projeetion, ac· cording to Dining Services Director Jan Gray, was in· correct .because the new Dutch Hollow in the CollegE Center · \We've always been in the black or brealc even, but .this year there is a chance of being drastically in the red.\ has not pr{)duced the expected . amount of cash sales and . because the Rathskellar and the · Pizza Pub have also been taking large losses. The changes are intended to cut cost::; and t() · channel cash sales into the : Dutch Hollow. Gray also said that the last two colleg~ budgets ineluded the $80,000 in reve11ues that Dining SerVices recei:ved from alcohol sales each ye~r before · the change in the drinking age. Those revenues were included,: she said, believing that, the· same amoU.Ilt wotild be spent on, food purchases in the• Rathskellar, Pi:r;za Pub, and Du.tah HolloVt. The food service budget is, prepared by John Hauser; vice 1 president f~»r finance, and isi based on the budget from1 previous years, according to i Gray and Dean of Students' Joseph Mammola. Hauser said that the budget projections come through the dean of students' office and he integrates tl1em into the overall eollege bu.dglEt. Mammola said, \Jan (Gray) has protested that number (the revenue J)f()jection) every year.\ He added, however, that the failure t() meet the projections ' 4 is nobody's fault.\ • Mammola continued, \With the exceptio11 of one year in the last five, Di11ing .Services has . never met the revenue ~ projection.\ They have kept 1 within the b11dget, he said, \by i keepjng expe11ditures down.\ · Gray said, \We've always been in the black or brea~ . even.\ But tWs year there is a ehance of \being drastically in 1 tbered.\ . · According to the College's proposed budget for the 1987-88 fiscal year (JtJly 1, 1987 to Jwte 30, 1988) Dining Service's projected revenue was $2,297,699 and projected ex- penses were $2,134,699. Figures on expenses and revenues to date were unavailable. Dining Services\ is not in- tended to turn a profit, Mam~ mola said, but the difference between revenue and ex-- See CHANGE, p. 4 It is expected that ap- proximately fifty S()viet students will :begin arriving in the States in August for a month of orientation before beginning the school year at their respective colleges. The students• needs will be metfully · by the college at which they study and no government money will be used to support the program. Vice President D'Andrea believes the program See EXCHANGE, p. 3 Photo of the \Neak: \F1;1ith\ -an art exhibit by Adrienne Klein in the Arts Bldg. Atrium. 1 • . l .., ...

Page 2 CONC\Q:RDIENSIS April _1, 1988 One Way to Facilitate Your Presidential Selection - Reduce Then1 to Fairy Tale and Comic Book Characters By ALEX GARDNER In trying to get a handle on the major differences between Presidential can- didates-Democrat or -Republican-minor discrepan- cies often emerge. Discriminating between th~ candidates for some comes down to broad issue positlions: Who will and who won't :raise taxes? Who will keep ·our defense strong? However, no matter how much politiCians stress their differences from the pack on these subjects, real distinctions rarely emerge. So just for a moment consider what would happen if we \iql- Religious Repression in Ethiopia By CHAD LEVIN Though most Americans are aware of the serious and seemingly intractable problems confronting modern-day Ethiopia resulting from the ravages of famine and political unrest, far less know of the curre~t problem facing the large Ethiopian Jewish population. EthippianJews, you say? It is surprising to many that a considerable number of Ethiopians are Jewish and that these people face oppression from the Marxist government that rules this east-African coUiitry. Many of these Jews have already left Ethiopia for the sanctuary of Israel, but thousands still remain, unable to leave, yet wishing to do so. On Wednesday, March 3(), Dov H<1ch, an Ani.erican Jew who has been actively engaged in the campaign to bring Ethiopian jews to Israel, spoke at Union College. The talk was presented by the Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity as part of their program-to raise money for the · cause and make people aware of its existence. Having worked with the Ethiopians in the Israeli .inunigration depart· ment and traveled throughout Ethiopia, Hoch presents an insider's view of the situation. Ethiopian Jews face oppression from the Marxist regime that currently governs Ethiopia. Their activities are closely monitored and they are' not allowed to leave the country. Israel has opened its arms to these people and during the 1980's 16,000 have managed to escape to Israel against the will of the Ethiopian governme~t Along with the Israeli govern- ment, there are currently two major organizations that aid in the rescue of Ethiopian Jews: the American Association for Ethiopian Jews and the North American Conference on Ethiopian Jewry. Rescue ef- forts began in earnest duririg the 1980's and culminated in late 1984 when Operation Moses led by the Israeli goverrunent airlifted approximately_ 8000 people out of the Sudan Desert. Despite this success, rescue is difficult and complicated and since 1984, large-scale efforts have been impossible due to the unfriendly governments in both Ethiopia and Sudan. It is estimated that between 10 and 15,000 Jews remain in Ethiopia under the strict watch of the Ethiopian Marxist regiine. Many of these . people are separated from family mem- bers who have managed to escape to Israel. From his travels throughout Ethiopia, Hoch reported that the Ethiopian Jews are a people of ''great dignity\ _and tells the story of one man who after safely getting his family o11t of< Ethiopia by migrating to Sndan, was on his way back to get his wife's family when he was picked up by Communist troops. To explain what he was doing 200 miles away from his village, the man, ratl!er than revealing the fact that he was using a route of escape to ' Sudan, said he was a drug smuggler and, as a result,. has spentthe last two years in jail. It is important to note that .. these Jews in Ethiopia clo not suffer from the faminf' that plagues th.e rest of the country. As Hoch points out, tlle Jews live in the western province of Gonder, while the famine lays in the central provincoes . of Eritrea, Tigray, Wollo and Shewa and is caused not by a · desert environment, but by overworked, unarable far- mland which carmot support tlle population. Although .Hoch is not directly involved in famine relief, he did provide i:nsight into this extensive proble111. The Marxist regime is vew con- cerned and active in trying to end the famine, but soLutions are elusive. One might be to industrialize the tro11bled regions, b11t this, at leastn()w, is unfeasable. A second remedy involves the mass movement of people from the unfarmable regions in the Northeast to the arable land in the Southwest. To this end a ten-year pla11 was devised and the first initiative - set in motion in 1984. Du~ to the severity of the famine, the government attempted tl) move 700,000 peole, but over l!Ml,OOO died en route because of the difficulties inherent in s11ch a large move. As. a result, tbis plan has been abandon&d. The only current help. comes from the import ·Of food. and s11pplies, subsidized largely by the many world help orga~atioll&~. Even this is not easy, though, as the northern rebels in an attempt to diminish support for · the Marxist govermnent . often ambush and destroy supply trucks. Specifically~ Hoch learned of three recent in- stances (Dec. 18, 1987 ~ Jan. 17, 1988 and Feb. 21, 1988·) when supply trucks were mbushed and valuable supplies bUI'IIed. While Hoch sees no definite end to the flmline, he ~ mere optimistic abou~ the si.tuation with the Jews. Hoch has 'Worked closely with the Israeli government . to instWe the Sea Sj)EAKf;R, p. 3 NEWS . ANALYSIS bued the presidenital race with your favorite fairy tale ·and comic book ~characters. Would this make it easier for you to decide who to vote for oil April 19? As we delve deeply into the land of make believe, .first consider the comic book character tbat every candidate likens to be compared with. Yes, that man. of steel who just celebrated his 50th bit'hday. Supennan is a rare breed who routinely saves the world with endearing humility. He is q uintessentiaUy American, without tbe smugness. What. candidate would noUike to have x-ray vision enabling him to see for himself whether or not the · Russians are living up to their · end of the INF Treaty? In the current election,. there is a question of whether the candidates have any type of vision. As the candidates are compared to the most parallel fictional character obvious differences can. be found, but ByDANIELJ. KENmY Associate News Edit(lr The Supreme Court has declared a .portion of a 50-year old law imposing a :ban on embassy ·protesting in Washington, D.C. un· constitutional. The Court, in a ruling handed down March 22, examined two portions -of the law. The first prohibiting any ''flag, banner placard or device designed ... to ... bring into public odium (or disrepute} any foreign government,'~ and the persons from congregating within 500 feet of a foreign embassy. Activists from both the left and the right submitted amicus curiae briefs in favor of over-. turning the law. The State and Justice Departments weighed in in favor of the law. The Court struck down the first provision in a 5-3 vote, while it upheld the second in a unanimous decision. The case, Boos vs. Barry, arose out of thre~ members of the Young America's Foundation who protested ill 1984 in front of ·the- Soviet embassy about PJe Soviets continuing war in the similarities are surprisingly vivid. GEORGE BUSH - RICHIE RICH . First,. the likely Republican nominee, Vice President . George Bush. NQ matter how impressive his war record is nor how many tUnes he tells you he left llis wealthy Connecticut family ;to make it on his own in Texas, Bush still elicits visions of a rieh boy whO has gotten where he is today by virtue of politicaL plums-.not by winning electi()ns. In fact, Bush bas .not '!on an election in his own right SIIlCe lOOG when he served,in the U.S. Rouse of Representati'ves. Rieh ldd who seems to .de everythlng right, getting to the ·top without paying the price; how about Richj.e Rich. Sorry, George,. but it is the logical choice. . JESSE JACKSON ~ ROBIN HOO]) OR PIED PIPER Now on to the candidate who has· tcuched off a · political earthquake, shaking the ,. national· political elite of ac- - tivists, - .constituency- gr():tip leaders, and national m~di~ to ac~owledge him as a \real\ candid!lte. Jackson preac!l(!s a simple economic message. ' 1 Stop letting these evil cor- ,porations got;Jble up and spit out the little people who have no recourse but to go :ento welfare.\ Ja.ckson says he will wrest the power away frombig business and give it back totlle people. He will raise the tax:es on ·big business-giving the extra revenues to the down- trCJdden masses. - His . goals harken back to Robin Ho~d, a legend of the earlier times who took from the rich and gave to · thepoor.. However, no matter what his color, if he were truly seen as Robin Hood, many whites as well as blacks would vote for Jackson. So far besides Michigan, Vermont and Massachusetts he has rr·acked up the delegates because -.of the See .CAMPAIGt-1 88, 'P• 5 The Court Giveth and the Court Taketh Away Afghanistan. The foundation's even further in saying that the attorney's attacked the law on ban on hostile signs was indeed the grounds that both -offensive to the First Am~nd­ stiplllations violated the First ment. The court has ruled in Amenclment's Free Speech and case after case that \c()lltent Ftee Assembly clauses. A based\ restrictions on speech feder~l court dismissed their are unconstitutional. suit, cmd the Washington, D.C. And what of the 500-foot M!le? Court of Appeals upheld the The justices agreed that law. Then-Judge Robert H. authorities should have broad Bork wrote . the majority powers to di~perse dernon- opinioll. He argued that the strators. The people may C()ngress had the authority to demonstrate peacefully, but \define and punish ... offenses group demonstrations. are too against the Law of Nations\_ close to an embassy . may . and tbat under this power it disrupt the day-to-day actiVities could prohibit . non-violent . (If , the mission. .District of speech that foreign dignitaries Columbia police might W~Ilt to would find offensive. In Bork's break up a deJilonstration view, . the law upheld in- where, for example, the noise ternatinal law while ·it still level is so high that em~ssy protected individual First · employees cannot work or Amendment rights. In man- normal flow of individllals in dating that the American and out of- the building is people respect foreign disturbed. This makes sense- dignitaries, we should expect how can bureaucrats get t() and the same for ours overseas. from lunch with protestors This_ is a lovely ideal, but dif- lying do.w,n at their door? ficult to write into law. You This case saw Chief Ju:stice can't make people respect Rehnquist swing back t() the anything. The law, in the Cir- conservative wing of the Cotirt, cuit court's construction, struck of which he has been the anicebalance. · champion of since his ap- Justices White, BlackmWl pointment in 1971. Two and Rehnquist subscribed t(} decisions he had written earlier Bork's opinion this time around. in the term had Court watc:hers But Justice Sandra Day buzzing over his pos~ible O'Con11or skillfully rebutted, in ideological flip-flop. it was writing for the majority, saying quite an odd group tha:t voted that if we tried to protect a for overturning the law, with diplomats diginity it would O'Connor writing the majority require a legal test \so opinion and Associate Justices . inherently subjective that it Brennan, Marshall, Stevens, would be inconsistent with our and Scalia joining her. Jru;tice longstanding refusal to punish Kennedy did· not participa:te in speech (that) may have an the ruling as he was not on the adverse emotional impact on Court when the case was ar~ued the audience.'' O'Connor went lastfall. i l; l j . I I

j I I il . I I I ,, CQNCORDIENSIS, April 7,. 1988 Page 3 S'tude:nt .Forum Holds. First Meeting of Term Discussions Held on Student Lounge, Skellar Ho,urs, G.E.B., and Social Policy By Sl'EPHANIE J.ARYNA The Student ForiJin began their weekly meeUngs for the Spring tenn last week in Room 409 of the College Center. Aaron Cartel, Vice President of Academic .Affair's for the Forum, updated Forum on the recent progress the, Academic Affairs Council .is making with reg~rds to the General Education Board Proposal. The G.E.B~ proposal will be release4 to the camp\1$ com- munity in the near future in order to recehre general comments and. criticism. Open meetings will be scheduled in order to best inform those in· terested in the proposal of its guidelines and to entertain questions. The proposal will be formany presented to the entire faculty after which there will mostlikely be a voting means of approval from both the faculty and the Student Forum. Finally, the proposal will entertain A.A~c. approval. Marty Cepkauskas, President of the ·Inter Fraternity Council, reported to the Forwn that the administration has begun proceedings in order to im· pleme11tmanyof the requests of the Social Policy which was presented to the administration last term. - weekly basis in the College Center beginning Friday night. The I.F .c. is. still attempting to make arrang~ments with the a!lministi.\ation to return the · Skellar tCl an atmosphere in which it can be considered a basic .social alternative on campus to fraternity parties. Finany there is scheduled to be a. re-evaluation of the regulati<Jns of..party attendance taking into ,effect both fire regulations and occupancy regU}IIticns. 'The: Student Forum election board informed the .Forum of their plans to move up Student . Forwn Elections to the sixth week of this term in hopes of easing the transition of new offi,cers. · The board is also looking into changing election procedures in the upcoming year such that the Student Forum Presidential election will occur early in Spring term and the obligations of newly elected Forwn members will begin around the fifth week of Spring Term, following officer initiati()n. Micllael Hiller, President of the Stude11t Forum, reported on the recent conftict concerning tb.e weekend hours of the Skenar. The final result is that the Skellar will be open Mon- days tbrougb Fridays from 11 :00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. though the giill 'Will close at 8:00 p.m. On weekends, the Skellar will be ,open for JJilBiness from 12:30 p.m~ until 11:00 p.m .. and again thegrillwill,close at 8:00p.m. .. - ' ~ •. ~ - . \ FiJi Break-in Spurs Cam,pus II i ,, I• ! Security Awareness By MELISSA LEVINE Last Monday, March 29, there was a burglary at the Phi . Gamma Delta hoQ8e. Some ' time between 9:50 and 10:10 a.m., while one of the brothers . . was in the shower, a room on ·· the second floor was entered and . items were ta'ken. Apparently, no one else was in the house. at the time. In total, three rooms reported. losing items including radios, a Walk· manl watches, wallets and loose money. Some ofthe stolen items :' were later recovered in· the , : parking lot at the rear of Fiji. • According to Ken 'l'roubh, a brother at the house, the fi-ont door was unlocked and the thief could have entered that way. According to Paul Mantica of ' the Security and Safety • Department, it is possible that delivery people could have been responsible for the theft. This is because they have easy access to the Fiji house on a regular, routine basis, and would appear as if they belong. However, . · Security has come up with . · nothing positive. This is in part · due to the fact that there is no fixed pattern to the deliveries. Security has been . buckling · down lately, with stricter \sign- . in\ regulations in both North and Richmond, and extra men The Student Lounge, located on the third ·floor of the College Center, will be undergoing t:enovations in order to ensure that it be more accessible to · . -students arid prom()te a more comfortable atmosphere.'· This project is set to be Cl)mpleted by · the beginning of fall term, 1988, In addition, live ·en- tertainment is scheduled on a DAMBROSE CLEANERS~ · • during spring break resulting in ?nly . two reports of missing 1tems. Items were reported missing from the Theta Delta , In~addition,the 21 Club, which took place on Friday nights in the SkeDar dUi.\ing Winter term, has beeR abolished. However, food 'Set\vice has scheduled between four and six Senior · Nights which will take place in the Skellar. The next Senicr . Chi recreation room, as well as a room in mckock House, but neighbor involved forced entry. In fact, a key was apparently used in order to gail) entryto the . room in mckock. Mr. Mantic-a 1517 van Vranken Ave · Night is-tentatively scheduled to take:' plat!e on April·19. Finally, the Forum discussed itnplicaticns of the recent let· ters t() the editors published in · believes that two reports is not bad for a campus that is so wide open and easily accessible. See FORUM, p. 4 · · Mr. Mantica had several Get a clue. Get a11 opinion. .374-5193 Read CONCORDIENSIS News Analysis, p.2. DRY' CLEANING AND TAILORING THIS Thursday, 11 a,m. 8:00-p.m. WEEK'S EVENTS: April 7 Minerva Hour lecture, Charles Baltay, professor of physics at Columbia University. Topic to be announced. CC Au'l; Sky Watch lecture with Professor Steven Brush. \The Age of the Earth and the Creation-Evolution Controver~y.\ CC Alid. Friday, April 8 5-9:30 p.m. Dutchmen's Night CC Aud. 7, 9, & 11 p.m. Film: Witches of Eas1Wic:k. CC Aud. 8:00p.m. Neil Yetwin speakir1g Oil \The Life and Times ol suggestions to campus residents in light of the recent thefts. He stresses the necessity to keep front doors locked and not to prop them open. He also advises students to keep their own valuable property under lock and key, saying, \Individual residents should keep their rooms locked at all times.\ Mr. Mantica ad\IC.ocates the \Neighborhood Watch\ system, recommending that students keep an eye out for suspicious looking people and report them. He also suggests that students mark their stereo equipment, the items most likely to be stolen, with iden- tification of some Sort. This not only makes the item ~asier to retrieve, but it ()ften discourages would-be thieves. Basically, Mr. Mantica advises doing anything to make it more difficult for your own valuables to be stolen, because it could happen to you, too. ~;:;;;,. ,,.,. ·!, Dov Hoch stands with Ethiopian Jews. The woman wears a cross so as not to create discord with her Chris1ian neighbors. Speaker Details Plight of Ethiopian Jews Continued fro~ page 2 smooth absorption of the Ethiopians into an Israeli culture that is so (()reign to them that when the Israelis came to pick them up from the refugee ca01ps, they could not climb the stairs to the plane because they had never seen a staircase. semitism, physical destruction, enslavement and forced con- version decreased this number to 100,000 at the turn of the century . and to only 30;000 today. GUided by a literal in- terpretation of the Old Testament and an adherence to ancient Jewish laws, these people have come to share Thisintegrationhas been nothing amazingly similar religious short of miraculous. Hoch . beliefs and practices with Jews points out that the Israelis have in the rest of the world. Though taken in close t() 15,000 a unique history and culture Ethiopians in recent years, with neccessitates some major as many as 1,000 comiag in per spiritual differences, Ethiopian week during Operation Moses. Jews observe the traditional By comparison, the United high holy days and because of States takes in only 3,000 their strict adherence to the African refugees per year. word of the Old Testament Hoch has worked clo~ely with actually carry J ewisb ritual the Ethiopians at the Israeli and observance to a more Absorption Center where he has genuine level than even Or- . Qrganized reP,W:o~ events and thodox Jews. , help,ed the Ethiopians get in- Hoch, a 23 year-old resident of valved in a culture that is Westchester County. New York, completely new to them. Hoch graduated from the University says he is continually im· of Pennsylvania in 1986. Soon pressed by the intelligence and after, he went to Israel where, adaptability of the Ethiopians while working for the Ministry who have been able to learn of Absorption, he became in- Hebrew and English and . terested in the plight of the progress quickly thomgh the Ethiopian. Jews. Hoch draws Israeli school systems, many up parallels between the Ethiopian to a college level. situation and the Holocaust saying \I was impressed with The historical and an- the Holocaust as an epic where trhopological basis ofEthiopian the Jews fell to the vicissitudes Jewry is truly fascinating. of the world, yet at the same Folklore traces the origin of time it wasn't my epic.\ Six these people back to the million Jews died during the destruction of the temple in second World War because Jerusalem around 5SO B.C. \there was no sanctuary for when Solomon, the King and them.\ In the 1980's, Hoch is Judea, married Sheba, Prin- fighting to insure that op- cess of Ethiopia, creating a pressed Jews have a sanctuary. race which is believed to have He is currently traveling been one of the twelve tribes of around the east coast spreading Judea. After this separation, the word about Ethiopian Jewry the Ethiopian Jews evolved and raising money for this independently, drawing only on cause that is so close to his their ancient Jewish heritage. heart. He plans to return to Up until 500 years ago, there Israel in June to resume the were as many as .700,000 battle firsthand. Ethiopian Jews, but anti~ Soviet Exchang'e • • • Continued frpm page 1 is \an exciting opportunity to bring students togetller from very different worlds.'' Outside of Union, the other colleges participating in the program are Amherst. Bates, Bowdoin, Colby, Colgate, Connectieut, Hamilton, Haverford, Middlebury, Mt. Holyoke, Oberlin, St. Lawrence, Sarah Lawrence, Smith, Swarthmore, Trinity, University of Vermont, Vassar, Washington and Lee, Wellesley, Wesleyanand Williams. Major Morecai Myers: A Search for Sources.\ Schaffer lib. Music Rm,. . REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW FOR PROF. FATIC' 8:00p.m. 9:30p.m. Thursday Music Club concert. Memorial Chap. Rock Group .. The JCJnes'. CC Aud. Saturday, April 9 . 7, 9, & 11.p.m. Film: Witches of Eastwlck. CC Aud. 8.:00 p.m. Museum & College Concert,. Trio Deii'Arte. Memorial Chap. Su.,day, April 1 o 12:30-2:30 p.m. Spec. Olympics. Outdoor Track. 3:00 p.m. •Leap of Faith .. performance lneluding magic, dance, and gospel m1.1sic. Am Bldg. 7, 9, & 11 p.m. Film: Witehes ofEastwick. CC Aud. I · The Electrical Engineering/Computer Science Department is conducting a reaapointment review for Associate Professor Vuk Fatic'. All members of the · college community who have knowledge of Prot Fatic'S teaching, professional ·activities , or college service activities are encouraged to contribute either written or oral testimony to Prof. Edward Cr~ig, Prof. Ekram Hasslb, or Prof. Yu Chang. VuChang Chairman Electrical Engineering I '.

Page-4 ,.CONCORDlEMSIS, Apr:i-l--7,- 1988 - - Dining Services Suffer From Unplanned Fi:nancial losses , Student P:ressure L,eads to· Student Forum Looks to Fulfill Original Goals Change in Skellar Hours Cor:ttlnued: hom page 1 ,changes. Students would not Continued from page 1 penditure is supposed to cover the cost of Dining Services employees' benefits. The College will cover that cost, he said, even if Dining Services revenues do not :provide ~no ugh funds. and nighttime hours at the Rathskellar, as well as breakfasts there, and weekend service at West College and the Pizza Pub. Many wotlld, and did, argue· . that although the system could · be run mor~ efficiently :through ·change, changes could have been made., elsewhere. rhose · w:ho taught the alterations were . Mary Am Ounha1ll '88,. A.aron ' Carrel ~~, Chris Hartmann '88, and MichaeE.Hiller '88: - ·· The foremost problem these students had with the decision to reduce the hours of the Skellar was the new schedule, was implemented this spring. , There are facts to this qualm. mind walking the extra distance if necessary in the spring, to an alternate place to · Contlmuect from Jl&ge 3 eat. · ~egarding the student jobs, the March 10 .iSSlle of Cor~ the cut in shifts and pay would dlensls. On the whole; mem1Jers have be~n drastic~ Although, as of the ·Forum voicedthe concern Gray pomted out,. a demand' for that they boped tllat the at· student workers woUld increase titudes of the facUlty ,in general in the ather Uining ·SerVice were not as conclescending facilities. toward the student l:»dy as ,tQ.e Those perturbed. students ' letter fro:rp. ProfesS<>r Lewis made a change. Dunham, indiGated, Discussi():ll was held ' Hiller, and Carrel met With concerning how to r~spond: to · · Mamrtl<Jla and almost fully the letter. . restored the .Skellar to its Hiller announcei that the The Dining Services budget has also included $30;000 a year for the past three years to pay for the construction of the new kitchen in Hale House/Old Chapel, formerly the up- perclass dining hall for two years and now used for special functions. After a meeting between Gray, Marnmola, Mary Ann Dunham '88, and Student Forum members Michael Hiller '88 and Aaron Carrel '88., Gray reinstated weekend and night hours at the Rathskellar, until 11 p.m. on weeknights and 12:30 to 11:30 p.m. on weekends. The Dutch Hollow will also offer pizza delivery service on weekends.- The first as:pect is the fact :that students i!'eturned to find: thernsel ves, faced with a decisions made that directly affected them of wbicb they were totally uninformed. The second, a more minor side of the problem, is that the cut in hours mea11t that many student workers would take a noticeable,cutin pay. original bours. '('he new hours general direction .o'f the ForUm · . are U:OO a;rr'l; to 11:.00 p.m. · this term will be ~n ongoing weekdays and noon to 11:00 attempt to·see throllgh.:the long Other reasons for- decreased revenues are the loss of \a tremendous amount of business\ from the old banquet room in Carnegie and a greater than anticipated number of students on the meal plan, which Mammola believes may be because of the appeal of the new upperclassdiningroom. nwith the exception of one year in the last five, Dining Services has never met the revenue projection.\ The changer? represent what Gray .and tW() student managers in Dining Service called \more efficient bW!iness practices.\ Gray said, \It doesn't make sense to have crews at each of the three places offering the same services ... (when) none are operating cost efficiently.\ Initially, the changes had abolished all weekend hours With the new changes, Gray said, \the savings will be modest ... we would have been much better . off with the original changes.\ A major problem, however, is that cash sales in the College Center have been much less than anticipated .. Gray said that College \projected records from Carnegie to predict what the College Center would make in receipts.\ She added, \We thought that there would be a much brisker business here, and staffed for it.\ The effort to shift cash sales from other sites to the College Center is to increase use of \the most modern, best-equipped, best-looldn:g facility,\ Gray said. · Mammola and Gray agreed that the college was in a dif- ficult situation this year for planning its budget. \I honestly see it as a very typical result, when you have to plan for an untried situation.'' On thefirst aspect, Hartmann co:mmente<l that he fe1t ''the way the administration went a:bout (implementing tbe changes) was wrong.\ They .simply \handled it poorly. '' The administration could ha·ve been more communicative ab()ut .its plans to t)le- students. On this fact Joseph Mai:milola, dean of students~ agrees. Mary- Ann Duhham also felt that something of this nature-something that :is most felt by seni()rs-could have been put on h-old until the fall. Dunham felt that \the ad- ministrati!ln is teo far removed to realize that the Skellar means more to the students . than just a food service;'' , Mammola reasoned that they thought spring time would be a less harmf,JUl time to make these :Nuclear Test Ban Petition Drive Set for Next Week ByBILL:BOYD administration) has. made Wars\ program would be progress towards a com- · hindered. Also, ,current On Tuesday, Wednesday and prehe_nsive test ban, including · teclulology allows for the Thursday of next week (April the Limited Test Ban Treaty · verificati!ln of nuclear- tests 12, 13 and 14) from 11 :00 a.m. -1 under Kennedy and the anywhere in the world from p.m., a petition in favor of a Threshold Test Ban Treaty within the United States. Other U.S. Comprehensive Nuclear under Nixon. The Limited Test potential benefits from a test Test Ban Treaty will be Ban treaty moved all nuclear ban include the preve11tion of available in the College Center tests underground and the nuclear weapons development Atrium for the entire Union Threshold Test Ban Treaty, in Qther 11ations and increased Community to sign. The petition though never officially ratified, environmental and public is being. sponsored by the has limited each nuclear test to health .security~ A test ban will Commission on Peace and a maximum explosion force of not affect the reliablity or Justice of Albany_ and the 150 kilotons. The Reagan Ad- safety of the current nuclear completed petitions will be ministration refused to join the arsenal. given to Representive Sam moratorium the Soviet Union Mol.\e information will be Stratton to show the increased initiated in August 1985, thus available at the tables next public suppot1 of sucha treaty. forcing the Soviets to resume week, including the film \A The United State and· the testinginFebruary1987. Step Away From War,\ Soviet Union llave both claimed The Reagan Administration narrated by Paul Newman. to seek a comprehensive test refused to· join the Soviet's Additional information on a ban · a comp-lete ban on all moratorium because it was felt comprehensive nucleartestban nuclear tests, in any location - that such a test ban was un- can ll~ obtained from SANE, at since the late 1950s. Every- verifiable; that nuclear tests · 711 9'· St. SE, Washington DC administration since then {with ~dd to the national security and 20003 or FREEZE, at 220 I St. the exception of the currrent 'that the progress of the \Star NE, Wasmngton DC 20002. Wornen's Studies Film Series THE BIG PICTURE: WOMEN AND MEN IN OTHER CULTURES MAIDS' AND MADAMS: APARTHEID BEGINS AT HOM,E Mira H~mmermesh's pow~rful film, ~hot r~cently in South Africa, eloquently examines the tragedy of Apartheid through tlte emotional relat1onsh1p between a black household worker and white employer. This domestic situation is a microcosm of the racial issues dividing the coul'ltry. \Watch (this film) and you will reifch a fuller onderstanding (of Apartheid).\ The New Yotk Times · \A totally original, softly spoken and generally understated film abot1t the relationship between white employers and their black domestic servants in So~th Africa. It explained more clearly, more tr~thfully even than a hundred news items or a score of more conventional documentary reports hte plight of the black population.\ - Royal Television Society Awards Pro.gram, Londoll TUES,DAY, A:PRIL 12,1988 7:00 • 8:30 PM CAMPUS CENTER AUDITORIU:M .An informal discussion with Professor Martha Huggins will follow the film ·for interested students and visitiors. p.m.. weekends. Now only range goals the ,Forllm t()ok'on breakfast and 21 club have been in the fall. The pdmary goal eliminated. Originally, there being. to assert the idea of a were 112 different shifts filled -campus community mth great · by the students. With the first · effort to continue 1~ im,prove schedule cllange that nwnb:er both student•faeulty · and wa~ reduced to 45 ~hifts {this is student-administratiotl relat- based on a. average of 2. 75 or ions. In addition the 'F'orum will . · three shifts per worker). The continue ·to sll,pport the . new schedule allows for 85 initiative of the I.F.C. in ob- shifts. The !lurn:ber of workers taining a better soqial policy on . has gone from approXimately 40 cam,pus and keep a. dose eye on to 45 workers down to ap- the issues ·of Gel 'lime and·the · ,proximately 34 worker (student G.E.B. proposal. .As always, workers now may have a Student Fro.um members are ·. maximwn of 3 shifts). Ap- available to hear students' proximately six to ten workers opinions and suggestions and and 27 shifts have beeri lost. they encourage il'lvolvement. Theresa Viva, a manager at the The next Stut'ient Forum Skellar, pulled the afternoon meeting will be held tonight in shift to adjust to this schedule. Room 409 of the (A)llege Center. Her reasoning was that those TQe meeting shall begin at 7:00 shiftsJare the hardest to fill in p.m. and the . ent:ire campus the spring with the nice . conunWlity is. invited to attend. weather, the big events that take place in the spring, and that is one of the slowest times ill the Skellar. Hartmann is happy for the \workable compromise\ reached rather than the \drastic cut·back\ students were once faced with. Mammola · added that one must be careful when making cha!lg~s conc-erning the Sk~llar, \It's l1ke changing the -Mona Lisa or the Washitigton Monument.\ LISTEN TO 8~.7 FM FOR THE:· WRUC EDITORIAL MONDAV,WED~ESDAY ANDFRIDAY. EVENINGS Ar.I):OO PM II©& ©fiY~@Jji]il ~@®IF[g)®Jl3rb®.r?cll0 for a limited time le_e Cream Sundaes with 3 topping. bar! Build Your Own like Nobody Else Can! Wed., Thurs., Fri. Nights 8·10 p.m •. at your . friendl.y Dutch Hollow Restaurant University of Rochester Graduate School of Educa.tion & Human pevelopment We Matcb- Empire State Scholarships (full-time, matriculated students only) Apply today for admission for M.Ed. & MA'T leading to teacher certification Veadline for Completed Applicati<ln: July 1, 1988 Write or call (collect) Office ofAcademic Services, GSEHD 304 ~atti.tnore • University of Roche~te.r. R:ochester NY 14627 (716) 275-3950 .,

CONCORDIENSJS, April., 7, 1988 Page 5 tt> b ,....,, \'--''-\'- .~ e3 • Make Your Presidential Pick fro·m Cartoon Characters Continued from page 2 loyalty of his natural con- stituency. lt seems many of his supp~rters follow him blindly desp1te a lack of political record, and the e1cistence of 'damaging political baggage. So Jackson is also the Pied Piper. Is he really so altruistic or is it power that is his driving force? Is he going to lead his con- stituency down the garden path and into the river to drown? Will his constituency come to the harsh realization that Jackson's promises will not be fulfilled. Is he a true leader or a misleader? We will soon find out. ' ALBERT GORE - wiLE E. COYOTE AI Gore's appearance has often been ~ompared to that of Clark Kent. But the first-term Tennessee Senator has S() far been unable to metamorphosize into the \Man of Steel.\ Un- fortunately, for the man who aspires to be the youngest President ever elected, he drums up more images of Wile E. Coyote than a larger than life superhero. Wile E., the sneaky coyote with the elaborate plans to catch the Road Runner, ·fruitlessly tries to make dinner of the elusive bird, but no matter how intelligent his plans, he always· is outsmarted in the end. Gore seemed to outsmart his Democratic rivals as he ignored the Iowa Caucus Dr. Martin Holmes Senior Research Fellow Mansfield College Oxford University will give two lectures: MONDAY, APRIL 11 COLLEG~ CENTER AUDITORIUM . 4:30pm Churchill, The War Leader 6:00pm . The Thatcher Phenomenon .. Refreshments will follow the 8 pm lecture Sponsored by the Department of History and the Shelby Culom Davis Foundation :NEWS ANALYSIS and New Hainpshire Prmary instead deeming St1per Tuesday as the first \real\ test in the race for the nomination. ln addition, to increase his at- tractiveness ,to the nation as a whole, he switched some of his more conservative economic positions to appeal to the left wing of the party. Gore with llis intricate, well thought out plans, finished Super Tuesday with the most delegates and emerged as a serious contender for the nomination. However since then, nothing has gone right. As Wile E. chases Road Run• ner, Gore chases Jackson and Dukakis. He has consistently come in third or fourth place, and if he doesn't.fare well here in New York (where he is trying to woo Jewish voters) this could be his Presidential swan song. He has not yet fallen off the cliff, but he has uttle chance of catching up Vlithhis rivals. MICHAEL DUKAKIS- LINUS Few people question Massachusetts' Governor Michael Dukalds' intelligence or effectiveness, but Dukakis' flaws are apparent to all who have seen or .heard him speak. His wirining chemistry with Massachusetts' voters stems from a confidence in his in~ telligence and personal: in- tegrity~not from an emotional tie or a passionate feeling. When he was younger he probably had many similar traits to the Peanuts' character Linus. Linus, the only true friend of the \born loser\ Charlie Brown, was too smart f~r the other kids to play with. Lmus watched \Nova\ while the others watched wrestling .. As he campaigns for the Presidency, a precocious idealistic young Dukakis wh~ has always shunned any sort of confrontation is apparent. Dukakis refuses to challenge the other candidates' policies. He repeatedly listens to ad- visers who are now tellirig him to attack Jackson's record, and earlier in the race told him to attack Dick Gephardt and Paul Simon. But Dukakis has con• tinued to take the ''high road.'' Dukakis, who preached the inevitability of his capturing the party nomination after a strong .Super Tuesday showing, has not been able to put forth a clear national message or to stir up any excitement in the voters resulting in his loss of fron: trunner status. Linus even had trouble inspiring the easily reached Charlie Brown and Dukakis has the same problem. He is seen as a technocrat who pays attention to details but does not come across to the casual listener as · one .who really has a handle on the pulse of the American people. He says be won't be someone he is not. Like Linus he feels if he is true 66 Lessons To Be Learned From The Holocaust SPEAKER: Abe Anolik of Children of Holocaust Survivors Friday, April 8 6:00 pm Dinner 7:00 pm Talk Kosher Kitchen, West College Sponsored by J.S.U. t~l'l1imself, he will be successful in the long run. However, Linus never ran for election because lie knew he was n()t the type to attract a sizeable folloWing. Is Dtrlalds? His sectirity blanket .()f the Massachwetts miracle he professes to ha1fe· engineered can•only take him S'O far. G~PHARDT- PLASTIC MAN Although Missouri Congressman Dick Gephardt dx:opped out of the race a few weeks ago, I could not resist a eornparison. Gephardt at- tempted to stretch himself into something he wasn't. He sWitched hiS positions more .times than even his critics can eount. After a stunning opening round win in Iowa, his flip- flopping record was brought out extensively by the other can- cliclates. His claim to confound tlle·establislunent ran contrary to his work as part of the Washington power structure. Gephardt seemed to be as malleable as tbe superhero Plasticman who could make himself into anything he :wanted to~ Plasticmanchanged shape as ~often as Gephardt changed pllilosophies. BOB DOLE · INCREDIBLE HULK 'The hot-tempered Senator :Bob Dole, who dropped out of the race a couple of weeks ago, can be compared to the easily ex:citable Incredible Hulk. Dole showed Hulk's rapid mood swings when after a disap- p(»inting New Hampshire loss, on; national television he unlashed on George Bush, telling him to st<Jp lying about the Senator's rec~rd of raising taxes. Dole can bE easily turned from a mild mallllered, serene politician into an uncontrollable htnatic. Although we may not have a Sllperman, we seem to have two caDdidates who resemble Clark Kent's bland, tmexciting in- terior and one who seems to resemble tur.n exteriorly . Parenthetically, all the so called \Supermen\ of politics seem to be sitting this one out. Es::cept, of course, for former television-ev;:mgelist Pat Robertson who can change the co1.ll'se of hurricanes with a single breath. ATTENTION UNDERCLASSMEN (Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors) Committee members are being. appointed by the C.O.C. for the 1988-1989 school years. Applications are due on April 18, 1988 in Mrs. Marra's office at 4:30. The following committees are being selected. ~atte~s ~f co.ncerr·~ to the athletic program, 1ncludm~ 1ntercolteg1ate athletic program~. club sports, mtramural and recreational programs, women's programs, and instruction in athletic skills and sports; 2 positions available. spons~red for the student body; 2 Chairmen 3 execut1ve members. • 14 .. Social Alternatives Committee: Acts as an offsho()t of the social committee in providing another source of social~ activity for the campus; 1 Chairman and 4 executive members. 1. Academic Affairs Council: This committee works with students, faculty and t~e administration in monitoring the academic tlimate of the college; 3 positions available. · · 2. Academic Computing Subcouncll: This committee studies the needs of · students with regards. to computing and the needs of the Computer Center to better serve the students; 3 positions available. 3. Admissions Liason Committee: This committee works with the administration . and admissions of.fice in determining the College's policies on student admission; 2 positions available. 4. Conduct Committee: Handles all matters concerning Student Conduct on the campus; 1 Chairman and 7 Members .. 5. Concert Committee: . Decides which bands will play for campus w1de events, such as Winter Fest and Campus Union; 2 Chairmen and 3 executive members. 6; Athletic L.lason Committee: Advises the Director of Athletics on all 7. Committee on Committees: Monitors events and .actions of all college committees and clubs, performs the selection process for all student committees; 1 position available. 8. Film Committee: Plans and implements college film program during the school year; 2 Chairmen and 3 executive members. 9. Finance Comm'lttee: Responsible for distributing all student activities funds to college clubs and committees· 3 positions available. ' ~ ,to. Human Subjects Committee: Responsible .for determining whether research involving students as subjects be approved; 1 position available. 11-. Research and Grant Committee: Reviews all I EF application and decides who will receive the grants; 1 position available. 12. Planning and Priorities Committee: Long-range planning of the college .involving frnancial implications, .institutional changes and all non-academic issues; 3 positions available. 13. Social Committee: Plans and implements many of. the activities 15. Speakers Board: Responsible for sEJiecting and contracting speakers of all types for campus entcertainment and information; 2 Chairman and 3 executive members. 16. Student Affairs Council: Reviews and r&cornniends policies to Student Housing, Dining Services, the College Center, Health Services, the Counseling Services, Career CClunseling and Placement, Student Conduct, Fraternities and Sororities, and the Student Forum; 3 positions available. 17. Standing of Students Committee: Reviews the records of students earning less than a satisfactory ter.m average. This committee also deals with student petitions for readmission, graduation requirements, and academic standing in general; 3 positions available. · 18. Student Groullds Committee: Student commit1e.e to deal with concerns relating to residence halls, campus buildings, and the campus groulldS; 4 positions available. 19. Student Traffic Ap.peals Committee: This Committee ~llows students to contest, in front of peers. traf1ic violations; :l positions available. \'

. '. ~· \' r ' Page 6 CONCOfl.DlENSIS, April 7, 1988 FEATURES Talk of the Town Concordi-ensis recently asked: Photos and Interviews by Stan Kitzinger \Total eclipse.\ LeeAnn Schmidt '88 and Andy Miller '90. \I'm not, but I should be. I was in Matala Crete, but :I usedtoo much s·unscreen.\ .Fiona Shukri \89. \I went to Florida for a few days;\ Mary Ellen Wl11g '91. Searching for Alternative Lifestyles By LEE ANN SCHMIDT \Kill it's the first thought that comes to your mind at 4:30 a.m. as you stumble out of bed for' the third fire drill of the night. If it weren't so cold out and you weren't still half asleep ( 9r haH dnmk as the case may be) maybe it would seem more amusing to watch everyone from your dorm (and more than a few \guests\) standing around in their nightwear. without make up. and SJlorting most unusual hairstyles. But it somehow wasn't amusing. Neither was the fear that lottery would arrive and your number would leave you in a closet somewhere in the basement of a distant dorm. Guess what? The housing lot- tery is less than six weeks away. For doubles, triples, and suites the new priority system gives underclassmen tbe ad:.. A typical off-campus t;.;use vantage. Singles and Co-ops still fall under a seniority preference system. So where are you living next y~~ WHAT A;RE THE·OP~IONS? Off-campus housing provides one alternative. This year about 150 seniors, 85 juniors, and 110 sophomores opted to live off .. campus. The majority of these students live within a block or two from campus in apartments which house four students. Streets such as Seward Ave., Gillespie St., and University Place ()ffer a variety of living .. arrangements including boar- ding rooms at about $5() a week, single apartments which go for around $200 - $400 a month, doubles for about $400 a month, and quads for anywhere bet- ween $4SO and $800 a month. Prices vary with location (streets on the West side of campus are generally less expensive) and some include utility fees, but at any rate most off-campus apartments are cheaper than on-t;~mpus housmg. . One t\'eason students may be reluctant to move off-campus involves the myth of isolation. It is just that, a myth. University Place, C which is as close to the library and most classrooms as the dorms are) is Ilome for about 75 Union students. You are only as isolated as you want to be. WHAT TO LOOK FOR Certain conveniences mark the difference between slum- ming it and living in style. Here are soq~e things to consider when you're searching for your future apartment. Safety is a definiate priority. Look for smoke alanns and seclll'e locks. And abDut those conveniences ..• Does your prospective home have C<lnvenient parld.ng? If there isn't a driveway check out . the on-street parking Situation. The police in Scheneetady are extremely enthusiastic about their ticketing and towing policies. Modern conveniences such as a dishwasller and washiJlg macbine/diyer alse> make life a lot easier. BEFORE YOUSIGN A LEASE Talk to current resi<lents and find out. how they feel about the apartment and the landlord before you sign a lease. Then, find out what your rigllts are as a tenant. Get a copy olthe lease ~nd look it over caref1il.ly. If you feel uncomfortable with any of the terms you can find· out what your rights are ·as a tenant by caUing The United Tenants of Albany .at 346-8997 or by getting a copy <If a booklet of tenants' rights from Dean of Residence Life, Dave Wood. \Why are you tan?\' \I went to Barbados .for the break to lie in the sun all day.\ JaneU Haas '91. \You know how hot that tropical sun in Rochester can be\.\ Andy Lipman '89. Desmoid Tumors and Stockholm, Free of Charge ByAARONCARREL \Private liberal arts college- small ciasses.... personal relationships with profesSQrs .... contagious academic com- munity.'' Andjustlastfall I was able to add to what Union has already offered, with the possibilities provided by IEF. (It's nice to be able to ap- preciate what you have, before it's gone.) IEF, Internal Education Funds, are available for enhancing educational op- portunities, whether via in~ dividual student research projects, or for curricular changes by professors which indirectly enhances ()ur studies. Application is fairly .;easy. merely a proposal of your in- tended research and a budget p~pposal for IEF funding. With this opportunity, it is no longer as difficUlt to gain research experience at a small school because of smaller en- dowments, in comparison to the larger universities. This IEF funding allowed me to spend last wiriter term concentrating on my own research. My project was a contlt'luation of some previous cancer researoh at Roswell Park Memorial Institute, \quantifying the DNA content of desmoid tumors''·- an association often seen with inherited colon cancer. For me, the only way to incorporate my previous experience into . current independent .projects was through the IEF op- portunity. Such an opportunity, to establish a stronger foun• dation in-research, reflects well on botll the institution and the students. Not only do these experiences broaden Union's reputation for support of studen.i research, but they open the doors for increased student involvement. Hopefully, our findings may be useful for the treatment of desmoids, as a possible indicator of prognosis. Before you iump to conclusions of BORING research, it's im- portant to realize that this was carried out in Sweden, at the \cutting edge\ in this area .of research at the Karolinska Institate. The top labs in the world, for cancer pathology research, are here (in- cidentally, where the Nobel Prize is awarded) in Stockholm. Not only was the research fantasti<:, but traveling in Scandinavia was beautiful! The stories and the experiences, both in and out of the labs, added . something that the classroom cannot offer. The facilities and my tutors were extremely influential on my work as well as a focus for future plans. As well as a ''te:rnl abroad\ ~ also gained ex- perience through \independent research\. This independent endeavor has shown to be a tremendous asset to m,y · schoolh!g at Union. With this in mind, I can only hope that other students are encouraged to keep the IEF scholarships over- flowing with applications for next year's money ... SPRING TERM PHONATHON iT APRil17, 18,24,25 SIGN UP YOUR TEAM TODAY! CASH PRIZES PICK UP FORMS AT LAMONT HOUSE NOTICE AS OF MARCH 27,1988, ANY CARLEFT PARKED OR UNAITENDED IN A NON-DESIGNATED AREA (E.G. STUDENT\ CENTER CIRCLE, SKELLAR CIRCLE) WILL BE TICKETED REGARDLESS OF CONDITIONS. \Quick Errandso~. Mail/Package Pick~Up,'Short Meetings, Etc. Do not Constitute viable excuses. ' -THE STUDENT TRAFFIC APPEALS COMMITTEE

Page 6 CONCORDl£NSIS. April 7. 1988 FEATURES Talk of the Town Concordiensis recently asked: Photos and Interviews by Stan Kitzinger \Total eclipse.\ LeeAnn Schmidt '88 and Andy Miller '90. \I'm not, but I should be. I was in Matala Crete, but I used too much sunscreen.\ Fiona Shukrl '89. \I went to Florida for a few days.\ Mary Ellen Wing '91. Searching for Alternative Lifestyles By LEE ANN SCHMIDT \Kill it's the first thought that comes to your mind at 4:30 a.m. as you stumble out of bed for the third fire drill of the night. If it weren't so cold out and you weren't still half asleep (or half drunk as the case may be) maybe it would seem more amusing to watch everyone from your dorm (and more than a few \guests\) standing around in their nightwear, without make llp and sporting most unusual hairstyles. But it somehow wasn't amusing. Neither was the fear that lottery would arrive and your number would leave you in a closet somewhere in the basement of a distant dorm. Guess what? The housing lot- tery is less than six weeks away. For doubles, triples, and suites the new priority system gives underclassmen the ad- Quick, I nesd a place to live! I 1 A · 1oical ofl-r.ampus ~·,.;use vantage. Singles and Co-ops still fall under a seniority preference system. So where are you living next ye.9.r? WHAT ARE THE OPTIONS? Off-campus housing provides one altemative. This year about 150 seniors, 85 juniors, and 110 sophomores opted to live off- campus. The majority of these students live within a block or two from camplls in apartrnen ts which house four students. Streets such as Seward Ave., Gillespie St., and University Place offer a variety of living arraagements including boar- ding rooms at about $50 a week, single apartments which go for around $200 - $400 a month, doubles f<lr about $400 a month, and quads for anywhere bet- ween $450 and $BOO a mont:h. Prices vary with location (streets on the West side ()f campus are generally less expensive) and some include utility fees, but at any rate most off-camp11s apartments are cheaper than on-c.ampus housing. · ·. One re.ason .students may be reluctant to rnove off-campus involves the myth of isolation. It is just th.at, a myth. Universi1y Place, ( which is as close to the library a:nd rnost classrooms as the dorn1s are) is home f()r about 75 Union students. You are only as isolated as y·ou want to be. WHAT TO LOOK FOR Certain conveniences mar:k: the difference between slum- ming it and living in style. Here are somE things to consider when yoa're searching for your future apartment. Safety is a definiate priority. Look for smoke alarms and secure loc~s. And about those conveniences .. , Does yotlr prospective home have convenient parking? If there isn•t a driveway check O'ilt . the on-street parking situation. The police in Schenectady are extremely enthusiastic abo11t their ticketing and towing policies. Modern conveniences such as a dishwasher and washing machine/ dryer also make life a lot easier. BEFORE YOU SIGN A LEASE Talk to current residents and find out llow they feel about the apartment and the landlord before yo11 sign a lease. Then, find out what your rights are as a tenant. Get a eopy ()f the lease and look it over carefully. If yo11 feel uncomfortable with any ()f the terms you can find out what your rigllts are as a tenant by calling The United Tenants ()f Albany at 346-8997 or by getting a copy of a booklet of tenants' rights from Dean of Residence Life, Dave Wood. \Why are you tan?\ \I went to Barbados for the break to lie in the sun all day.\ JaneH Haas '91. \You know how hot that tropical sun in Rochester can be.\ Andy Lipman '89. Desmoid Tumors and Stockholm, Free of Charge By AARON CARREL \Private liberal arts college- small classes.... personal relationships with professors .... contagious academic com- mWlity.\ And just last fall I was able to add to what Union has already offered, with the possibilities provided by IEF. (It's nice to be able to ap- preciate what you have, before it's gone.) IEF, Internal Education Funds, are available for enhancing educational op- portunities, whether via in- dividual student research projects, or for curricular changes by professors which indirectly enhances our studies. Application is fairly easy, merely a proposal of your in- tended research and a budget proposal for IEF funding. With this opportunity, it is no longer as difficult to gain research experience at a small school because of smaller en- dowments, in comparison to the larger universities. This lEF funding allowed me to spend last winter term concentrating on my own research. My project was a continuation of some previous cancer research at Roswell Park Memorial Institute, \quantifying the DNA content of desmoid tumors''-- an association often seen with inherited colon cancer. For me, the only way to incorporate my previous experience into current independent projects was through the IEF op- portunity. Such an opportWlity, to establish a stronger foun- dation in research, reflects well on both the institution and the students. Not only do these experiences broaden Union's reputation for support of student research, but they open the doors for increased student involvement. Hopefully, our findings may be useful for the treatment of desmoids, as a possible indicator of prognosis. Before you itunl? to conclusions of BORING research, it's im- portant to realize that this was carried out in Sweden, at the \cutting edge\ in this area of research at the Karolinska Institute. The top labs in the world, for cancer pathology research, are here (in- cidentally, where the Nobel Prize is awarded) in Stockholm. Not only was the research fantastic, but traveling in Scandinavia was beautiful! The stories and the experiences, both in and out of the labs, added something that the classroom cannot offer. The facilities and my tutors were extremely influential on my work as well as a focus for future plans. As well as a \term abroad\. I also gained ex- perience through \independent research\. This independent endeavor has shown to be a tremendous asset to my schooling at Union. With this in mind, I can only hope that other students are enco11raged to keep the IEF scholarships over- flowing with applications for next year's money ... SPRING TERM PHONATHON ~ APRIL 17, 18,24,25 SIGN UP YOUR TEAM TODAY! CASH PRIZES PICK UP FORMS AT LAMONT HOUSE NOTICE AS OF MARCH 27.1988, ANY CAR LEFT PARKED OR UNATTENDED IN A NON-DESIGNATED AREA (E.G. STUDENT CENTER CIRCLE, SKELLAR CIRCLE) WILL BE TICKETED REGARDLESS OF CONDITIONS. \Quick Errands\ Mail/Package Pick-Up, Short Meetings, Etc. Do not Constitute viable excuses. -THE STUDENT TRAFFIC APPEALS COMMITTEE

CONCORDiENSIS, April 'l, 1988 Page 7 FEATURES The Magic of. Spring By SUSAN SHAFFER Refreshed .. Smiling? Whistling perhaps. '~'·:·w'·~;'F''~\?\cJI A bounce in every step. A song in every shower. A greeting for everyone. , Spring~ A new beginnirlg. Blossoms unfold and new growth is witnessed. This season will have a magical effect on our lives and it is not due to the fact that the Grateful Dead are on the east coast tllis season. These sudden wann feelings blew in with the spring air. As the sun shines upon Schenectday, a new attitude emerges within us all. For those who havejt!Sf; completed theses, survived the harsh winter, worked so hard they were unable to take a break-. now is their chance. .Spring term is their opportunity to .relax and overcome winter stress. One can study in the garden, take a deep breath and relax. For others who struggled for motivation, searched for some initiative and experienced mid- year crisis, spring term offers a new perspective. Spring gives us hope. Our old mistakes are forgotten and our Sins are forgiven. We are able to sit back, take a look at .&urselves and enjoy the \learning process' with which we a part, S . •t•· eniori·Is I especiaily see spring as a chance for a new beginning since my birthday falls on the first day of spring. I often take this time to reflect upon the past and to look towards the future. This term will hDld many welcome experiences, but I do not wait and. count the days for things to happen. During spring term one must take bold of every moment. The College Center recently displayed the number of days left until Camp Union and Conunencement. The .. numbers were wowuli:ng. We must not waste any time for those days will be upon us before we lmow it. The beach is mowed and ready. The frozen yogurt machine is working. Students have already been seen enhancing their spring break tans. This attitude of enjoying each moment, along with the swmy warm weather, gives Union a campy at- mosphere. Union, however, is more fWl than camp. Never in camp did we have this much freedom ·or such academic opportunities. Spring is a welcome relief to the struggles fron1 the work, woe and winters ByLEATAJACKSON Senioritis is a column designed to bring together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of '88. · If you ordered com- mencement announcements Winter Term, please see Mrs. Marra TODAY. If you hadn't ordered them, you still can, but do it soon. - Commencement • June 12, 1988. If you thought receiving no mail was bad when y\u were an underclassman, it's worse when you are a senior. Before, an empt;y mailbox meant your friends were too busy to write, or you bad no friends. Now, waiting for replies about graduate scho()ls or jobs, no mail means no one wants yo11 ... to be in their school or com- pany. People go to the mailroom with faGeS full of anticipation, and that hopeful look falls so quickly when there is nothing there ot· it's jwt bills. Some people check their mail once a day, some once an hour, son1e once every fHteen minutes. One senior says she doesn't even have to look now, her 'Wrists automatically flick to the right places for her com· bination. There are seniors who have worn out their locks and developed blisters · on the:ir fingers from opening their mailboxes so often. Of course, the day you ~ere supposed to ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • • . \ . i FRIDAY NITE LIVE!! i • • • • i CJ'J{f£JO i • • • : 9:30 - ? at the : • • : College Center Atrium \' i • • •• • . . . . . • • •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• KEEP THE CAINE Gil NAME .. ~ hear from that number one choice, it never fails that the · guy two rows down opens his letters to find two offers for $30,000~ . But there is a reason for all of this aggravation. The day is drawing near when that .fateful letter arrives and it will be your turn to grin from ear to ear like that guy two rows down. In the meantime, there are a few things yo!l can do to alleviate the empty mailbox problem. 1) Ask Mom (or Dad or your little sister) to send care packages. 2) Write letters to people who are too polite not to write back. 3) Join clubs so that you will receive announcements from them. And if all else fails, you can just check the mailbox less frequently. Do you realize we are the last class to remember: -when Senior Drunk Club was for seniors. - the Pub in Carnegie when it looked like a pub (and not a food court). - when the Gardens had more trees because there wasn't a road between Carnegie and Physical Plant leading to Nott street. Only 66 more days to duck the frisbees whizzing by in Library Plaza. Ideas and input for this column are welcome. Make the most of it because this IS it! You've thought about it. You've bied to imagine what it woU)d be like. of Schenectady. This is the last term of this year, cherish each moment and you will soon, if not already, find a bounce i:n every step a song in every shower, -and a greeting for everyone! Dr. Marti'n Holmes Speaks on \Churchill as a War Leader\ . For those of you wllo are history bllffs, you will be deli~ted to know that Dr. Martin Holmes, a Senior Research Fellow at Oxford University, will be coming to speakat UniononMonday, April 11. And for those ·Of you who aren't quite keen on your history facts, here is a chance to listen to one of Britain's historical experts! You know it would be exciting. And a challenge. And quite possibly the most rewarding; experience of your life •• ~ . Dr. Holmes will be speaking on two different subjects. on the eleventh. \Churchill as War Leader\ is the subject of the 4:30 lecture and \The Thatcher Phenomena\ is the focus of the 8:00 lecture. Both will be held in the College Center auditorium. Professor Berk, who took one of his courses at Oxford this past summer, highly reCDmmends · Dr. Holmes for his perspective on recent history. :~' Dr. Holmes is also known for his knowledge of twentieth century British history and has written several books and ar- ticles on the subject. His books include: Political Pressare and Economic Policy: British Gov.ernment 1970-1971, Tbe First Thateher GGvernment, The Labour Govemmemt, and Britlsll Security PoHcy ud the Atlantic ~ce •

CONCORDIENSJS, Aprif 7, 1988 Page 1 FEATURES . Just The Magic of Spring By HOWIE LAZAR Ask How enhance stability in highway lanes and emergency maneuvers. Let me ask you a ' question now~ what color was George Washington's white horse?. By SUSAN SHAFFER Refreshed. Smiting? Whistling peFhaps . A bounce in every step. A S<()ng in every shower. A greemg for everyone. , Spring. A new begin.ning. Blossoms unfold and mew growth is witnessed. 'rhis season will have a ma.gicai effect on our lives and it i~ not due to the fact that the Grateful Dead are on the east coast this season. These sudden 11\'llrm feelings blew iR with the spring air. As the sun shines upon Schenectday, a new attitude emerges within us all. For those who have just eornpleted theses, survived the harsh winter, worked so h.ard they were unable to take a break-- now is their chance. Spring tenn is their opportunity to relax and overcome winter stress. One can study in thE garden, take a deep breath and relax. For others who struggled for motivation, searched for some initiative and experienced mid- year crisis, spring term offers a new perspective. Spring gives us hope. Our old mistakes are All reasoBable questions·· from faShi()oll, food and drinkt stero and sp~Jrts, cars and life~ to etiquett~ and taste- will be C(>nsidered f<>'l' publicati-on. The most provoC!ative and pertinent questions will be represented in this column each week. Send all inquiries to Union Colli!'ge1 Box 1267. When Is it an right to wear my pemy·leafers without socks? - . L.M. Ac<»rding to fashion experts, myselr included, every good American citizen Should own at least two pairs of good loafers, one brown and one black. The brown()nes are most commonly worn casually and without socks while, · the black ones should be reserved for more auspicious occasions and should generally not to be worn with shorts. Nowadays, expecially during the warmer months~ it is always in good taste. to wear socks with your shoes • Remember though, if your feet are prone to perspiration and smell, please · dis_regard your sense of fashion fQr the sake of tbose who live an attend class. Senioritis Last weebnll, ! accidemally walked in •u my roll'mmate, who is · also one f.»f my best friends, in bed with the girl that I have beea seeing for nearly tbree month~. What skould I do? ·P~S. Because wnat yolll' roommate did was no easy task, fr<>m What . I hear about your ex he should . be congratlllated and como mended. Obviously, he must have good taste, at least in your eyes, otherwise he never wouldtve pi<:ked the same girl as you did. Don't lose a good friend over an insignificant incident like this one. Dump her, but not before you get baclt all the mat~ialistic trinkets you graci<rusly provided her with these past three months. The, lastest bigk·toob eraze m cars. seem& .to be foqr,.wheel steering. Wbat is it aud what does it do? -J.B. Four wheel steering means ~xaetlt Whitt .. its name impUest all four tirES move When the steering wlreel is t11rtum~ Both ends of the car are !tteered• partlY to make, tr tt1ot~ maneuverable ·at low speeds (i.e. parking, U.-tums)~ partlyto make it rn<Jte stable' at higher .. •·• For $killed di'iVWSt it &sn't inc.tease th\ tires~ tractiOn or make the car comer any narderor £a$ter. But it d<Jes deer~~ tl!e turning circle and . . with you. What Is the failure rate flf Cfln_doms? I've heard all sorts flf herror stories about rubbers bl'eakitlg one out of ten tillles ud needless to say, I am worried. • l.F. . The FDA regularly monit()rs ,· e()ndom manufacturing. Tlt:e bad news Izzy is that it allbws oondom'B with a leakage rate of four per 1000 to be distributed. ln. prattice, ·:condoms generally have a ten-percent failure ratce · as a m~hod of birth ·control. In ()ther words, during a year of ,use (no~thesameone of course) 1en··nntof~vecy100 women will beoome· pregnant. Maybe yott , $.1Quld go baelt on th~ pill. ByLEATAJACKSON Senioritis is a C()Jumn designed to bring tog ether cmnouncements of partie ular interest to members of the elass of '88. a If you ordered C(]Ill- mencement announcements Winter Term, please see Mrs. Marra TODAY. If you badn't ordered them, you still carJ, lmt do it soon. • Commencement- Jume 12, 1988. If you thought receiving no mail was bad when you were an underclassman, it's worse wllen you are a senior. Before, an empty mailbox meant rour friends were too busy to ~ite, or you had no friends. N\ ovv, waiting for replies ab.out graduate schools or jobs, no mail means no one wants :YOJU ... to be in their school or com· pany. People go to the mailroom with faces fitll of anticipation, and that ho]leful look falls so quickly ~hen there is nothing there orit'sjust bills. Some people check tbeir mail once a day, some once an hour, some once every iiitEen minutes. One senior says ~lle doesn't even have to look D()W, her wrists automatically flick to the right places for her (!Dill· bination. There are seniors 'r\Vb<J have worn out their locks and developed blisters on their Until next week, keep the fingers from opening their questi<lnseDming! mailboxes so often. Of collr'se, the day you were supposed tCJ .............................. , .................... . • • • • • • i FRIDAY NITE LIVE!! ! • • i rTJ{f£JO i • • • : 9:30 - ? at the : • • : College Center Atrium i • • • • • • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• KEEP TJ CARNEGIE NAME hear from that number one choice, it never fails that the guy two rows d()'Wll opens his letters to find two offers for $30,000. But there is a reason for all of this aggravatio()n. The day is drawing near wnen that fateful letter arrives and it will be your turn to grin from ear to ear like that guy two rows down. In the meantime, there are a few things you can do to alleviate the empty mailbox problem. 1) Ask Mom (or Dad or your little sister) to send care packages. 2) Write letters to people who are too polite not to write back. 3) Join clubs so that you will receive annoUI1cements from them. And if all else fails, you can just check the mailbox less frequently. Do you realize we are the last class to remember: ·when Senior Drunk Club was for seniors. ·the Pub in Carnegie when it looked like a pub (and not a food court). • when the Gardens had more trees because there wasn't a road between Carnegie and Physical Plant leading to Nott Street. Only 66 more days to duck the frisbees whizzin~ by in Library Plaza. Ideas and inpat for this column are welcome. Make the m()st of it because this IS it! You've t.bo11ght about it. You've tried to imagine what it wouid be like. You know it we>uld be exciting. Alld a challenge. i\nd quite possibly the most rewarding experience of your life ••. ,, .~ ! forgotten and our sins are forgiven. We are able to sit back, take a look at ourselves and enjoy the ''learni11g process' with which we a part. I es~ially see .spring as a chance f\'r a new beginnimg since RlY birthday falls on the first day Gf spring. I often talte this time to reflect upon the psst and to look towards the futW'e. This term will hold many welcome experiences, but I llo not wait and count the days f()r things to happen. During spring term one must take hold of every mCJment. The College Center recently displayed tile number- of days left until Camp Union ancl Conunencement. The numbers were woUllding. We must n()t waste any time f()r those days will be upon liS before we know it. The beach is mowed and ready. The frozen yogurt machine is working. Students have already been seen enhancing their spring break tans. This attitude of enjoying each moment, along with the sunny wann weather, gives Union a campy Bt· mosphere. Union, however, is more flJil than camp. Never in camp did we have this much freed()m or such academic opportunities. Spring is a welcome relief to the struggles from the work, woe and winters of Schenectady. This is the last term of this year, cherish eac.h moment and you will soon, if D()t already~ find a bounce in every step a song in every shower, a11d a greeting for everyone! Dr. Martin Holmes Speaks on \Churchill as a War Leader\ For t.h()se of you who are history buffs, you will be delighted to know that Dr. Martin Holmes, a SeniCJr:- Research Fellow at Oxfor!l University, will be coming t() speak at U11ion on Monday, AprU 11. And for those of you Wh() aren't q11ite keen on your history facts, here is a chance to listen to one of Britain's historica.l experts! Dr. Holmes will be speaking on two different subjects on the eleventh. \Churchill as War Leader\ is tile subject of the 4:30 lecture and \The Thatcher Phenomena\ is the focus of the 8:00 lecture. Both will be held in the College Center auditoriwn. Professor Berk, who took one or his courses at Oxford this past summer. highly recommends Dr. Holmes for his perspective on rece11t history. Dr. Holmes is also known for his knO<wledge of twentietll century British history and hae written several books and ar- ticles on the subject. His books include: Political Pressure awl Economic Polley: Britisll Government 1970·1974, The First '['hatcher Governmen4 The Lab41m Government, and Britlsll Se«!urlty Policy and the Atlantic Aillance •

Page 8 CONC(JRD.lENSIS, April '!, .. 1988 Why Help the Third World Hersh, Robear~d Dr. X at Scotti's. Out to Eat With Hersh&Robe By ANDREW HERSHOF1' a.nd BILL ROBBINS Scotti's Pizzeria Despite its proximity to Union, we were Wiaware of Scotti's until Tom Coleman recommended it. He opined• that it was a good and inexpe11sive Italian restaurant and our 'Vlsit bore this out. We arrived with our g:uest Doct()r X about 5:30, and foiU'Id the restaurant almost empty. Scotti's is a small (eleven tables), simple, and very cJean placE, with a friendly at- mosphere. The patrons who later filled the resta11rant seemed to know each other a:nd the ~aff, Our waitress was friendy, courteous, and en- thusiastic about the dishes on the menu. . Scotti's offers a fairly simple seleetion of Italian dishes,. in- cludi:llg pizza, calzones, hot sandwiches, and a variet::y ~>f ,pasta entrees. Veal was not among the choices. We all .split a lar~e sausage pizza and Bo be and 1 shared a meatball par- migiCIIla sandwich and an order of chicken cacciatore. The last was tbe special of the day and highly recommended by <»llr waitress. A basic, but satisf:Ying salad was included with the chicken, and we. enjoyed' the baskEt of hot bread. ThE pizza, at $7.25, had plenty of sausage, was fairly thin and was somewhat greasy. Althollgb Robe felt it was a bit too thiiJ. and salty, I enjoyed the crispy, thin crust and will dare say that it was the best pizza I've had in Schenectady. Doctor X enjoyed it, especially as it cooled and became less rWlny. Unfortunately, the meatball sandwich was .only a bit better. than mediocre. It was large, with a. generous amount of cheese (and definitely not a sandwich to be picked up), but the meatballs themselves were not the best. The chicken, however, was delicious. Per· fectly seasoned morsels of chicken, mixed with onions, mushrooms, and two types of peppers, sat on a bed of spaglletti. Our only complaint was tllat there could have been more chicken; this was a minor quibble, especially at $6.95. In sum, Scotti's offers good food, an unpretentious at· mosph€re, and commendable servicE, all at a reasonable price Based on our 1-10 point rating system, relative to other restall!'ants in the area and of com[!arable price. I gave Scotti\'s an 8, and Robe rated it a 7%. Scotti~s Pizzeria 1730 Union Street Schenectday 393-7440 No credit cards accepted Cost, with tax, before tip: $22.05 By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor I wanted to ask her what starving felt like. I could see her stomach stretched from that parUcular state of malnutrition. r wanted to ask her mother why she didn't kill herself in the face ·of such lifetime misery; for she knew that her life wouJ,d be jast that, misery. Instead, I hoped I would soon be home in the · comforts that I'm so used to. I could stand to see the ads on the television with Barbara Streisand; the MTV video of Michael Jackson's \Man in the Mirror\ and the musical ar- tists who supported USA For Africa. I couldn't bear to see the inflicted people. So why should we help? There are those who argue that assistance only prolongs the agony. They argue that it is a situation that is associated with the ov_erpopulation of a place The College Market Predictions for Spring Fashions Include a continuing emphasis on pastels· for both men and · women, according to the National Association of College Stores. Other forecasts: Women's skirt lengths will be anywhere from the ground up; men's jeans will be looser, with more thigh room. Fleece - now in shorts patterned with stripes, checks and plaids- will remain the top seller. Attention Certified Lifeguards: New Training Required By TOM CHRISTOPHEE The American Red Cross has totally revamped its water safety programs in an effOJrt to serve the public better. ..As a consequence of course revlsions in tile area of lifesaving a11d the wsr, many people who have served as lifeguards with Advanced Lifesaving and·or wsr in the past, will not be able to pErfonn as such in the rtear future. 'The course that. has replaced Advanced. Lifesllvin,g and has become the stan!lard certlfication is Lifeguard Training, and Union stmdents are fortunate to have thls course offered on-campus tbis term. 'Ibe Red Cross' LifegWlrd Training program . wUU be required for all New York State Lifeguards next year, and munldpalities ahd country clubs will be required to follow suit iii the near future. WSI's currently working as lifeguards under the certification of Advanced Lifesavin~ should realite that .after December 1988 tbey ·will no longer be able to teacb Advanced Lifesaving. WSI's will strictly teach swimming classes,. Beginner throllgh Advanced Swimmer. Life~11ard instructors have been certified to teach Lifeguard 'l'ra.illing. Mo5t of this information was delivered at the annual Water Safety Seminar hosted by the AibBny Area Chapter of the American Red Cross. Those who 'Were Wlable to attend are sur:p':_ised bout the new reviSions and people with Advanced Lifesaving d()n 't know where to turn. They should fegister for the Lifeguard Training course offered this terli1 Monday and Wednesday, 2;4 p.m., weeks 2-8. WSl's intent on becoming Lifeguard Instructors in the future should consider this opportWiity as well as any students whose Adanced Lifesaving card expires this year. The other alternative is the National Aquatic School run by the Red Cross at Silver Bay on Lake George, JWle 25-July 1. For more information on both of these, see Susan Bassett at the pool, or call Tom Christopher at x6991. This past term AWARE brought a variety of program~ to campus on issues of importance to students. We need your 1deas and involvement. Join usl Our Next meeting is· Wednesday, April 6th at 7 pm in Carnegie· room 203. with few reso.urces. This is difficult to deny. Yet,' most Americans feel guilt associated with the suffering of another people. I believe we Should .feel guilt. 'Ibis guilt should be associated with ow initial - involvement and intrusion of the previously stable environments of the third world. In Nigeria it was the peace--loving missionaries that broughtthechurchinto tri,bes to teach them how to worship god. Their culture and resources were exploited. What they · brought with them was a taste . of English education and the benefits for those who chose to follow. In return they received g()oW; and- African resources. Another a$pect of the English education they brought was that of in~vidualism. The previous tribal system was based on a first priority devotion to the tribe and its leaders. The English education revealed the \advantages\, · the greed, selfishness, and insensitivity associated with individualism. Chin11a Achebe, in his book, Thin£s FaU Apart, tells a story of a young .son, of high ranking tribal leader, who is led into the path of betrayal by the Engfish missionaries who visit the tribe. ms betrayal, and a later tribal sin and a trail before the tribal leader-s leads the tbeme of the book towards colliflict within the tribe and later their demise. Achebe'.s empnasis lies in the infiltration .of English thought · with the outcame of inter-tribal turmoil. Again the guilt should lie on those who contributed to the injustice. . . So why should we help? The situation has <Jonsumed us. It is too late to withdraw C()mpletely fro:tnthe region n()r could such a w-ithdrawal ever be im· plernented under · current political conditi()ns. Can we help? Our previous efforts suggest that we can't yet I doubt that we will cease to try. Perhaps we sh()uld ask those people of the thir4 world if they want our help. But they are so confused in their own inter· community · wars they are unable to act as a unified body. So we decide in the end whether or not to give assistance. The problem boils doWn to a broad based complex issue. The issue is whether humane moral policy should be upheld in a situation that has a 'difficult to obtain' solution which cannot be reached without the tragic . suffering of those affected. So why should we help? This remains Wlanswered. Food For Thought By LIZA CHERANDE With the holiday of Passover comesthereligious and cultural traditions that have been passed down since the days we left Egypt for the Promised Land. One of these traditions is to e.at matzah (unleavened' bread), for eight days as a rEminder of the haste with which ow: ancestors left Egypt in biblical times; it obviously took a longer time to cook bread. Beacuse our ancestors did not have time to wait for the bread to rise, they discovered by virtue of necessity, a new food; matzah. Today we still eat unleavened bread as a reminder of the bitter slavery as t() say, \We do not forget the sufferings of our people.\ . Maintaining this tradition has been especially difficult for me this year. The peanut butter and jelly sandwich, which never usually appeals to me at West (except as a last resort), for son1e reason has taken on an enticing appearance. Arid the pasta, normally a fateful choice, becomes an Italian culinary delight~ Why must I this week eat peanut butter and jelly on a dry, tastelss cracker- , like substance? Making matters worse, two- of my roonunates brought back their Easter baskets filled with chocolate covered eggs ~d jellybeans. I, of course, anticipated this, and br.ought back to school mom's Kosher for Passover brownies and cookies. My mom is a great ·cook~ but no one (not even Jlilia Child) can make Kosher for Passover desserts taste good without flour! When my roommates try my browni~s and cookies, tbey smile and pretend they like them, but then go intotheir room and unwrap a Cadbury Easter egg. They don't think I know they're eating from their Ea.ster baskets ... One final food for thought- a friend of mine just told me that the latest Pas~over food in vogue is (yes, you guessed it) chocolate covered matzah! Association for Computing Machinery Organizational Meeting Monday, April 11 7:00PM Steinmetz -203 lF®&tmtrilDlg: Free Pizza, Soda and Computer generated graphics W·e will discuss the requiremeats for membership and future Activities. Allll A.rr·®

. . . -:,~· ··--· -- ---~ _,.... - __ ., ---~ ~- Leg~l Brief '. _• I ..;· By TINA:SCI(JCCHETTI N(),Peaee, No Justice? On Sllilday night, I was watching the 11:00 news when the Rev. AI Sharpton, a spokesman for Tawana Brawley, appeared on the screen. Sharpton was saying that he would 'be in Albany the next day :With 1,000 protestors who would march and \shut down Albany.\ Sharpton and the other .protestors . were hoping that their appearance in Albany would call attention to the Tawana Brawley case and force Governor Cuomo to· change his appointment of state Attorney General Robert Abrams as special prosecutor tothecase, troopers ollitsid.e his office door insisted that he was not coming in that day), Diana (my sister) and I went.outside on the capitol ·steps and waited for. the protestors to show up. What ~really stoo~:i' out was the in- credible amotliit of press and · .police present. In addition to local media:, I saw cameras for CNN, Newsweek and many downstate stations and the capitol pqli(!e were assisted by Albany CotJnty Police officers, State Troo11ers and the Albany County Sheriffs Department. It was obvio11s that everyone expected something big to happen. By 12:00, a few protestors -.arrived witll folk singer Pete ·Seeger. I was b~ginning to think that this w,ouJd be a genuine sixties-style demonstration • folk singer· and all. The. press hounded Seeger for a while and then left alo11e, he led the crowd in a couple ~f Songs. By now, I was really getting into the demonstrating mood (or maybe I was deliri()us from the burning 70 degree weather • no thun- dershowers as predicted) and joined Pete in a hand·clapping version of ''[f I bad a hammer.'' Finally, at 2:00, two hours. late, the bu~es of demonstrators arrived, wit:il Sharpton aboard. The crowd had thickened and state workers filled the win- dows of the Capitol Building, the State Education Building and the Twin Towers (now I knew what Sharpton meant about ,closill'g dvwn three state agencies r) . . . what Martin Luther King would have ·had in inincl. If this was a protest to get Gov. Cuomo to change his decisions concerning Brawley's 'Case, then it was certainly sending out the wrong message. Diana and I stepped aside and let the ·rest of the group march on~ Being a par,t of M~nday's proceedings in Albany exposed me to many of the .concerns .of Brawley's supporters. It allowed .me to· understand their fe~lings and their demands from the Governor, infol'IJlation that the press·often has a way of tainting. H()wever, I cannot help but be disappointed in the manner in which the supporters are trying to get their demands for the case met. A hostile protest billed' to shut Albany clown didn't accompljsh anything but the arrest of its organizers and some par- tiCipants. In addition, if the Tawana Brawley case was the issue, then her caseshol:lld have been the only issue. There could have been other demonstrations conceming race relations in New York., South African problems, etc. 1 won't argue the merits of Brawley's claims, which many people are beginning to think were created by herself. That is fora jury to decide. I do believe, however, that Sharpton, Mason and Maddox's demands for a more representative grand jury and an attorney with more trial practice than Abrams are not unreasonable demands. Perhaps they could get them met in a different manner; with more organi~:ation and less eonvolution oftbe issue. Pearl: A ~pecial Lady By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. On .the eampus grounds, there are a few people who cap relate the Union College experience as well as Pearl Flanagan, the chef at Delta Phi fraternity. Pearl will be celebrating her thirtieth anniversary at Delta Phi this week. In and out of the kitchen, Pearl has combined a love of her work with a love of the men who have worn the Delta Phi badge. \They (the men) are all nice boys, and always have been,\ notes Pearl, \and I have never had a problem with any of them.\ In relation to the house, Pearl feels that it has remained relatively unchanged, ''except it's a lot cleaner\ she adds with a smile. In addition to her work at Delta Phi, Pearl has worked at times in West College and Hale House. From the day she arrived, she has felt that Union has not changed - \It has always been beautiful.\ The only time which Pearl believes things were uncomfortable were the flower power years, but fortunately for all of us, those difficulttimes are part of the past: Overwhelmingly, though, she thinks things at Union are \bigger and better.\ Pearl also noted, after one of her famous Bacon Cheeseburgers, of the days when there were few women on campus. Although those days were some years ago, she mentioned the days when Union men would venture to the campuses of Russell Sage and Skidmore for dates. Despite all of her knGwledge, Pearl's cooking is her greatest treat. Not only does she know that good food is a must for hungry men, but a lot of it as well. Seldom is . a brother or piedge late for ~ meal and even rarer is someone sent away feeling hungry or not satisfied. When a person in any discipline conquers such a milestone as Pearl has, recognition is certainly deserved. For Pearl, though, the rewards she bas already received are more than enough. \Everyone has always been so kind to me, it makes me so happy\ she adds, again, with the same smile, only a bit more sincere this time. Congratulations, Pearl, and may all the people of the next thirty years be as lucky as those of the last thirty to share with you all that you give us. Sailing Club Meeting Thursday, April 7th 8:00pm Room 203 College Center 'Big Boats to Windsurfing No Experience necessary For those of you who are unfamiliar with the case, here are tbe brief facts. Tawana Brawley is a sixteen-year-old black teenager who claims that she was kidnapped and sexually assaulted by six white men last November. After a four-day disappearance, she was fo~d lying in a road near her ho:!Jle m a garbage bag, with animal feces and scrawled racial epithets on her body. The Rev. Sharpton and two attorneys, C. Vernon Mason and Alton Maddox (who were all associated with the recent Howard Beach case) represent Miss Brawley. They have refused to cooperate with the state investigation in the case and refused to let Brawley speak to anyone about tile case. In addition, they have led several small demonstrations calling the removal of Abrams from the case · and the disbanding of the grand jury which they . feel is unrepresentative. The march on Albany promised to be the biggest show of support yet staged by Brawley supporters. It was- hard to move and the male prote.sto1s stood as a barrier bet'Nee11 the bus riders and the press. The people filed out of the bus into lines of four abreast. There were 'only about 200 of them, far sport of the 1,000 promised by Sharpton ~nd I wondered!how ihey were gomg to \shut Albany down\ with so few. My sister and I had earlier befriended one of the spokesmen for :the group and he invited us to join the march. yve stood with bim,two lines behind Sharpton, Seeger, Mason pnd King Remembered Thr9ugh Candlelight Vigil Being the socially-conscious college students that illy sister and I are, we headed for Albany on Monday., Mter following the story through the media for several weeks we wanted to talk with the people involved in the protest, find out what they were protesting about and what th~y hoped to gain from t~e1r demonstration. Most Im- portantly, we wanted to see what exactly a protest was. On the 20th anniversary of Martin Luter King's ;ssasination, film footage of . 1960 protests abounded television channels that day. To have something similar occur in Albany the very next day and not to go to learn from the demonstration would be a shame. So we headed for Albany, expecting our experience to be an education in politics and social movement that would make up for the two hours of class that we would miss. The first thingthat we noticed when we arrived at the capitol building at 11:00 was that there were no protesters. It seemed to be business as usual. However, we soon passed a conference room filled· with police officers who were sitting around a table with their crash helmets and billy clubs out in. front ·Of them. It looked .like they were ex• pecting trouble. We stopped to talk to them and found out that the protest\e':\s who were ex- pected at 10:00, had left N.Y. City at 9:00 and were not ex- pected to arrive at 12:30 .. we bad one and a halfhours.to k11l. After an unsuccesful try to meet Mario Cuomo (the 35 Maddox. .,.. While the protesters were lining up, I paid close at- tention to Sharpton. I was surprised by- the rude tone with which he ~ddressed reporters, even resp~nding to one reporter's question, \If I an- swered that, I'd be just as stupid as yoll.\ Some protesto~s carried po~ters of Martm Luther King which, said \He had a dream.\ Others waved South African flags and one carried a sign saying ''kill KKK scum.\ We began io circle the capital with chants of \No peace, no justice\ and \We're fired up, won't take no more\ being yelled. As we mar9hed it became .evident that this really was not a non-Violent demon- stration in suppart vf Tawana Brawley. In faet, if one line of proteste1s clid.JI~t carry a sig~ bearjng Bt.awley's name, . 1t would have been hard to tell just what tlte marchers were really protesting. Press for- cefully being p11Shed away from the .protest gr()up and some protesters jeered white onlookers. Then, one . group began to chant, ''Hey Cuomo have you heard, this is not J ohanl'lesburg'' and we. kney; that we did not belong m this march. Contrary to Sharpton's claim, I did notthink that this is By DENISE FEJNSOD The twentieth anniversary of Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination was on April 4, 1988, which was this past Tuesday. At 9 .p.m., a can- dlelig·ht vigil w.as held outside of the library in order· tbat this event could be remember~d. The vigil was sponsored by both BLAS (the Black and Latin Alliance of Students) and a new group which is being fo:rmed on campus, SPAA (Students for Political Awareness and Ac- tivism). Over 80 people were in attendance. A large circle was formed while a minute of silence was observed in remembrance of Dr. King. Anyone who wished was invited to step forward and comment. Various people took the op- portunity to offer and comments unity and peace. The group joined in singing some songs along the same themes. The vigil ended with- the thought that we should not only remember Martin Luther King's beliefs but we should take action to try to sight the wrongs we encounter in our daily lives, as did Martin Luther King Jr.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, April 7, 1?88 IN.TERN.ATIONAL FEATURES Israeli Policy In ConteXt The press potrayal of recent Israeli policy on the West Bank and Gaza strip presents a misleading picture of Pa!a stinian-Israeli .conflict in the area. The media has no memory. It has displayed images without presenting the historical context and has thus created an incomplete picture, conveying false conclusions. However, the televised view of Israel as a militarily aggressive, barbaric, racist nation can be shattered by examining the events which have ultimately led to the current state of unrest. The foundations of Arab- I.sraeli struggle lie in the 1930's under British rule. According to the Balfour. Declaration of . World War I, Britain had promised support for Zionist efforts to establish a Jewish homeland in Palestine. In addition, the Yishuv, the Jewish population, grew steadily due to the ascendancy of the Nazi regime in Germany and the rising tide of anti-semitism elsewhere. Between 1933 and 1939, 253,000 Jews arrived legally and thousands of others came by illegal means, thus establishing a substantial Jewish presence. The Arabs began to fear the growth in size, economic base and self-assurance of the Jewish community, and in 1936 rioted, striking for six months and leading an armed uprising in the countryside against British rule and the Zionist project . it protected. Violence would continue through 1937. However, in 1937, a proposal was presented by the British Royal Commission recommending that Palestine be partitioned into a small Jewish state in the coastal plain and Galilee and an Arab state in the remainder of the country. The Zionist movement tentatively accepted the plan, while the Arab leadership vehemently rejected it, demanding instead an in- dependent Arab state en- compassingall of Palestine. Mter further unsuccessful negotiations, in 1939 Britain issued a new 'white paper,' an official statement of policy. It limited considerably the extent of British support for creation of a Jewish homeland. At a time when Jews were being horrendously murdered in ·Europe and Palestine was being looked to as a haven of escape, the British restricted Jewish immigration to 10,000 a year for five years, and placed restrictions on land sales to Jews. In response, the Haganah, the Jewish army, launched a campaign to drive the British out of .Palestine. Finally in .February of 1947, Britain dec'ided to turn · the question-of Palestine over to the United ,., Nations. Following montbs of hearings, it was .recommended that the British mandate be tenninated and the country partitioned into Jewish and Arab states, with Jerusalem becoming an internaional city. Then, on November 19, 1947, with strong Soviet and US support, the UN General Assembly voted by a two-thirds majority to accept the Partition Plan. Of course, the Arab states had been noted in opposition. The day after the plan's initiation, May 15, 1948, Arab forces from the governments of Egypt, Transjordan, Syria, Iraq, and Lebanon entered Palestine. Poorly equipped and led because of rivalries among Arab commanders, the A:rabs fell to Israel's military strength. A peace was negatiated between February and July of 1949 under UN auspices, and Israel was admitted to the UN in May of 1949. Meanwhile during the hostilities, some 700,000 Palestinian Arabs, many from the upper classes, had fled the zones of violence, fearing the possibility of Israeli rule. They left much against the wishes of Arab leaders who desired their continued presence to use as political weaponry. In general, the Arab states refused to accept the consequences of their defeat in 1949, continued to regard the establishment of Israel as an injustice, and imposed· a political and economic boycott on the new state. Tensions rose along the.. . . J:lQrders as Palestinian refugees, in- dividually and in small groups, began to infiltrate Israel from the West Bank and Gaza at- tacking people and property. Naturally, Israel retaliated. Once again there was war in 1955 when Egypt attempted to annex the Suez Canal, an ex- tremely important in- ternational waterway. Israel, with the aid and support of the British and French troops, prevented this bold Arab play for control and also themselves won the Sinai. However, the Israelis promptly returned the land once peace was reestablished. The Arab states had long opposed Israeli projects to divert Jordan River waters, especially the completion of the National Water Carrier- in 1964. · In reaction, the Arab league sponsored the formation ()f the Palestinian . Liberation Organization (PLO). Tensions continued to mount and on May 15, 1967 Nassar of Egypt mobilized his army and sent forces into the Sinai Peninsula. A few . days later •Egypt requested and obtained the removal of the UN. Emergency Force stationed along the border since 1957 and then announced the closing of the Gulf of Aquaba to Israeli ships. These measures were ac· companied by virulently belicose rhetoric from several Arab nations. Israel launched a surprise attack and within six days had crippled the Egyptian and the Syrian air force and army. This became known as the Six Day War. Israel with- drew from most of the conquered territory in ac- cordance with UN Resolution 242 with the exception of the West Bank and GazaStrip. In the early 1970's, Palestinian guerilla organizations took over the leadership of the PLO. At this time, the Israeli economy was flourishing and the West Bank and Gaza were integrated into mainstream . policy. However, in October 1973 the Yom Kippur War would begin the. day of the most important Jewish holiday of the year. Egypt and Syria . hurled full scale military offensives against Israel. Itwas only with the help of the United States mass airlift of military equipment that Israeli forces survived and won the war by the end of the month. In the Camp David Accords of 1978, hosted by US president Jimmy Carter, Beg en and Sadat arranged a formal Israel- Egypt peace treaty, which included the return of the Sinai, an Israeli possession since the Yom Kippur War, ·held as a buffer zone. In addition the two countries were to later negotiate the autonomy of Palestinians on the West Bank and in Gaza, the new hope of the PLO. Unfortunately, Israel has not been able to formulate a plan for the achievement of these ends. Its government cannot negotiate with the PLO, which is essentially a terrorist organization led by .· Yassir Arafat~ still ain,ling at the destruction of the Jewish state. Further, the augmentation of\ PLO anti-Israel terrorist ac- tivity in the 1980's from Lebanese bases, makes agreement impossible. The confrontation has reached an impass. Adding to the com- plications, the Likkud, a right wing party led by Prime Minister Shamir, is today in a dominant position and supports a strong nationalist platform, advocating . Israel's tights· to 1 both banks of the Jordan River: It should now be obvious that the current violent situation in Israel isn't black and white. One cannot look at the tough Israeli policy including cur- fews, and strong s11ppression of riots as uncalled for aggressive action. As proved by history, the PLO and Arab nations to this day remain a threat to Israel's ~urtival.. Hi,story ·cannotbe'torgotten. · · , \' ~, This Week in the World By Nicolas Boch Russia - The Russian Orthodox church is celebrating its millennium this year with the blessing of the state~ Is it merely truce- or are the Soviet Union and Christianity moving-towards an historic compromise? Israel - Mr. Yitzhak Shamir's refusal of Mr. George ShUltz peace plan is not the end of relationships between Israel and the United States. Mr. Shultz, it seems, cannot take NO for an answer. He will return to Israel on April3rd. Hungary - A stormy meeting of the Hungarian communist party's Central Commltee last week failed to answer the main question·on its \iigenaa: should the party continue to exercise \leading role\ alone, or stand back and give others a say? The party knows that its dominance is already diluted by competition from yet-to-be-formed patties Whose shape is becoming clearer by the month. Source: The Economist E;uropean and A~e·rican Educational .D:ifferences: Vitality of Linguistic Skins BySHELLEY SZYMKO Taking a quick glance at the scant number of students who ate fluent in a language other than English makes language professors shudder-, and im- presses upon other natioas that Americans are reluctant to study other cultures. Despite the overwhelming • interest Union students have for the Terms Abroad programs offered,. few students ha:ve ever fully-developed a high lev~l of conunurucationinthelanguage skills for the language they are required to speak in that !term abroad. What has caused the lack of language proficiency in· American learning institutions? What are the differences bet- ween American and Eurqpean educational systems which enable European institutions to be so much more linguistically advanced? French Professor Camille LaParra commends the French Lycee (school) fo~ starting students with foreign language at an early age and requii'ing the continuation of this language. \In Europe, tl:!ere is the common market! Colll1tries are not isolated. There is an emphasis on the international importance of language.\ In addition, LaParra states, ''Parents feel it is important to elCcel in a language. People are willing to pay for it.\ PrOO:essor LaParra herself spent a summer in -England to improve her English skills. She says, '~There is a conunitrnent in learning a language. People (in America) are not as willing to go on and build it.\ When asked the questions, ''Whatdo you feel about the attitude many Americans hold that pe()ple of other nations will someday speak English?\ and \Why should we learn other languages?'' LaParra replied: \That's not trite. Language study is necessary to un- derstand the way the mind works.\ Native Italian Matteo Coveri- Abbondio, a sophomore at Union, addressed the difference between the European and American educational systems. He praises American univer- sities for .having greater acces$ to resources and information. Students are able to get to know professors well. Perhaps this is due to Union's small size. Professors in Italy play more .of a role as· \God and are dif- ficult to be reached. We m11St be more independent. American college students have less responsibilty. The American student does not want to put out the effort. to learn things. We are force fed our knowledge. American students lack oral skills and when asked to respond to a question, are often intimidated. College seems to be the last four years of life to be as irresponsible as one ean.'' An inside look at the Germ.an education system requires speaking with visiting Fulbright Scholar Susanne Lehmer and Professor Karin Hamm.;Ehsani. Lehmer stated that she had to leave her hometown of Dusseldorf to study at a university. She became more independent and was responsible for orgallizing her finances and living arrangments as there were no dormitory arrangements. She says, \There are ' no advisors. Usually a professor won't know your name. He's a scientist.\ In addition the average size Qf a university is twenty or . thirty thousand students. Lehmer places an impo~tance on language. . \In Europe, one can driYe three hours east and be ill France, three hours south and one is in Austria. Our (European) histories, too, are strong because we have needea to build up nationalism. to sur- vive.\ · Karin Hamm\\Ehsani.spoke of the education at the Gym- nasium. (The Gymnasium is similar to the Ameriean high school). Children begin their education at the Gymnasium at age ten. After eight years, students receive a General Certificate of Education upon passing a six hour written exam and a long oral examination. However, the first two years of the Gymnasium are equivalent to the first two years of an American university. Hamm- Ehsani says, \The standard of education in Germany is much higher than in America. Education is more highly regarded.'' She continues, \In America, students ar-e guided much more. This is the New World. We are concerned with what comes next. What is behind us does not seem to be very importaQt.\ Lehmer, also pointed out, \Americ<~ns have 300 years of history versus· Europe's 2000 years.\ Ch:ristoph Merk, a Swiss student who is a fre~bmen at Union, feels that the Swiss ed11cation system is much broader than ·the American. Eleven subjects are studied, including many langu<~ges such as German, Englisll, ·French arid· Latin. A comprehensive four hour exam and a twenty minute oral exam are taken at. the e:F.l.d. In Switzerland, only six percent of the population goes on to the university. These universities don't have enough space. Exams are nQt only difficult, but extremely picky, making room for other students. In his opuuon, the American high school system should be reviewed. There should be a minimum of one foreign language. Christoph believes, \It is very chauvenistic if one k11ows just his native tongue. If yoagrow up with them (languages) you would have a much better understanding of language at the college level.'' Our education can often be taken for granted as we hustle through a busy day wit!lin the walls of Union CollegE. It is understandable that we don't think about how difficult it is for a Swiss student to be accepted at a university. We are for- tunate to have excellent materials available to us and professors that will pr-ovide help when needed. At the university level we fltill have freedom to choose a liberal arts curriculum. However, it is important to be open-minded about European education. Europeans place a greater importance on language preparation, perhaps because ofgeographicallocati(ln. Yet, it is vital to the understanding of other cultures that we attempt to broaden our awareness of not only language but all aspects of education .. As bright a11drosy as living in America can be, it woUld be helpful for Am.eri~ans to develop better linguistic skills to maintain an<l facilitate our position as~ great pcwer. :j :.) i ..

:j ·I 1 ' CONCORDIENSI$ 1 April 7, 198/r Page 11 Israel·~ The Toughest Term You'll Ever Lov·e As most Socially agressive Union College students stumble back to their rom:ns at 6:30 in the. morning,. far .away at Kibbutz Gal-on an alapn clock rings and immediately gets shut off. At 6:3lt n.ine semi..OOnscious students bead. to class in their sleepwear 'to face Miriam, our teacher from the West end of Oz. After an hour anc:la half of \intense\ study of Isra·eli delights - mud . slide coffeet a loaf·· of bread per person with TelP1a, diverse cucumbers, seven liquid cheeses, weed lettuce and of course good ol' cream 'o wheat. Following this .:;ulin,ary -ex- travaganza, we travel to the factory where our work day begins.· Being the creme de la creme of American. youth, the management quickly trains us in the use of monkey machines and even allows us to box some fans. Our. progress is readily apparent as we are now skilled in the art of assembling fully automatic ... 3•sgeed, oscillating fans.· Outside of the factory, each of us had found nis ovm. area of entertainment. To some it's basketball... to others it is laying out in the SWl or picking fruit from the orChards. Our night life consists of several weekly .trE)k$ to the beer silo sit~t~ next to the heavily arom~tic milking cow p~stures-_ ., fear not the Union tradition is being upheld. 8300 miles away from hotne. Although the beer is net Bud, Goldstar- the beer of the Sinai- is keepin,g us warm ~(l cozy. Outside of the kibbutz, we have frequented lectures and seminars about problems in JerW!aletn and the West Bank- qmte conveniently close to the violence that our discussions are evaluating. As of yet, we have not seen the unrest fir- sthand, but the everpresent gunbarrel$ jabbing our backsides in every restaurant and disco remind us of the constant tension. And. as good 'ol Prof. Berk said, \We shall endUre all.;, Overall, it'S been an amazing experienc and a flippin' good time·! The stories we have accumulated Win provide for great party conversation. Lastly, we'll tell everyone at. home if you're thinking about coming to Israel, don't- just do it l S~alom! Lihitraot! International Issue by Aime Simon Do you feel that the Northern Irish Republic should have its independence? And- are the methods of the IRA acceptable? John Bynun (1990) Northern Ireland is a democracy, and as such the British Government has little choice but to bow to the wishes of the Protestant majority and remain. Obviously the violent methods of the IRA ~re totally unacceptable under· almost any circumstances. · Mathew Flltterman (1991) I'm not sure that it would be best for the people of Northern Ireland if their territory became completely independent. However, the present- situation in which the Protestants who make up one-third of the population are in ·complete· control of government is · unacceptable. The IRA needs to stop using · · terrorist methods if they are to show the rest , : of the\ world that they will behave responslbily in government. Robert Pearl (1990) The people of Northern Ireland are in an obvious que~t for independence - the main reason being the fact that British government has neglected thei~ present religious situation and moral rights. Obvi()usly, what is going on presently in Ireland, namely the violence is absurd. If independence is what they want, independence is what they should get. The methods which the IRA are presently employing are, without a doubt, unacceptable. ,. Prof. Murphy Yes, Ireland should have its independence. However, the problem of Ireland will never be solved until the British get out. Nobody approves of random and wanton violence anywhere, but until the British leave, random and wanton violence will continue. ·INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Easter In Greece By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS Coming from a country like Greece where modern society · . bas :become so conflicting in ' politics and heterogeneous in · ideology, it is to11ching, to ob- serve the impact of the spirit and sacredness of Easter upon · the nation as a whole. Pas-ha (Easter) is probably the most · celebrated holiday of the Greek Orthodox calendar. Its religious and sacred charlilcter has been preserved from the com- mercialistic cloak of the business~world. It is a holiday in which all members of soCiety,, from the youngest to the oldest, prepare themselves both physically and spiritually so as to properly participate, un- derstand and rejoice in the Symbolism and significance of Easter Sunday. The extra- ordinary sense of unity present during Holy week is · striking. Greek nationalism is spurred. Flags are hung from the houses, Corntnunists are for once at• tending church, servants are placed at the table of the house- .. keeper, and as in ancient Greece during the time af the Olympics where all wars and LANGUAG.E TABLES M:enday: FRENCH Tuesday: ITALIAN Wednesday: GERMAN SPANISH Friday: RUSSIAN Meet in the College ___ Center Dining Room at 12:30 p.m. (Russian starts at 12:45 p.m.) If you are interested in being an usher for Commencement '88, see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities , Office (4th floor College Center). r·~·· .• : •• ::•·., .... ·.:.··:·. ·~·fi~>.'PP~~t•• ;:,!1~f~f-~lilir• :.. .. ..... ·. m¢eting. to take . . -~· ::. ::: ;. ·:. :::: .: ' . . . . ... · . . . . . . -' .. ... :placelate:r this spnng I·. · · ~PP.ficait~ils :·are due ·.:·. .. ·. -· next 'Fall term. . . ·. For More lnfonnatlon See Prof. Klein In SS1 09 disputes among tribes were seized as to.engage in harmony, so is serenity prevalent in the rnv.dern Greek society during Pas,-ha. F·rom Palm .Sunday, Greeks attend church so as to receive blessed leaves of palm. The symbolism of the leaves is r-evealed by the fact that it was Pas-ha (Easter) is probably the most celebrated holiday of the Greek Orthodox calendar. tlle palms that Christ was greeted with by his followers in .:tlis entrance to Jerusalem. Hence, as blessed as sacred symbols the people take them llome so that their household may be graced. The following t:hr'ee Holy days reflect the beginning of strict fasting in which no meat and milk is all~wed to be consumed. The women usually clean the houses so tl!at no work will be done <luring fl()ly Thursday; the e.rueif.iction of Christ. The men aC<!()Idingly stop their work, ancl the butchers are not Tbe epitaph is brought o11t of the church and carried an around the neighborhood . . aU()wed to shed any blood; only on Holy Thursday when Christ's l>l<aodwas shed. During this day of mourning eggs are boiled and painted red. Eggs reflect life, tlte boiling symbolizes the tor'ttue Christ went through, and the color red, as mentioned above the shedding of His blood. The respective food prepared in m()st households is a soup made UJl by water and vinegar. Again the symbolism of the iiJgxedients reflect the sub- stallces with which Jesus was cleansed after he was brought down from the cross upon which he was crucified and taken into his tomb. The fasting, now, bec:()mes even stricter by not allowing any oil, butter and fish in addition to the ingredients already restricted as mentioned abo-ve. lt is during the night of Friday that the carrying of the Epitaph (the tomb) occurs. Y o1111g girls during the morning go and decorate the Epitaph in church and chant hymns. They cle!lns themselves with ·on and col()gne (myro) and prepare for the carrying of Christ's tomb. The Epitaph is brought out of the church and carried all ar~llild the neighborhood or district that the church resides German Film ;'THE BOAT IS FULL\ (1981) with Tina Engle, Kurt in so as to show that Christ is dead; to prove that he was taken into the tombt to con- tradict the idea that his body was stolen from the gqarded Epitaph. All day Saturday no one is allowed to eat anything besides drinking . water. Saturday night is the most touching and sacred nights of the Holy week. It is a time in which all people who have taken part in the ordeals of Christ during the week understand. In a pitch dark church where no sound is permitted besides that of the priest they, like Christ, enter Hades; death. At mid7 night a spectrum of light, a candle so .small yet lighting all the church with a vivid flame symbolizing a new life - the eternal life - is brought out by the priest. The people rush to light their candles, the men outside light fire crackers, and fire guns symbolizing the break of death into eternity. All day Sunday is a day of celebration. The traditional foods are lamb, and a special soup {magiritsa) • which most of us hate, along with other customary foods varying from region to region. The beverage of course is wine, which we all love!! The most tradition custom however is the breaking of eggs. Although many say that such a tradition has religious foundation others refer to it as just an ex:em- plificaion of the Greek gam- bling and competitive·nature. Within hours, however, all returns to its previous con- dition. Politicians will rage in debates and scandals; Papandreou will seem to have had more than enough wine therefore continuing to act like a drunkard in his policies; Uitsotakis .. the leader of the • • • and finally Florakis - the leader of the communist party - will inevitably still continue Greek Perestroika. Right hand party - will most probably be having dinner with our ex-King after the incredible gaffe he made; and finally Florakis - the leader of the Conununist party- for whom we would wish that a little time in church would have altered his mind and beliefs, will inevitably still continue to call upon a Greek Perestroika. Never- theless, though religiously extreme I may not be, I do have hope that at some point of the Greek nation's captivity within a Hades called Papandreou's Socialism - better known as PASOK - a \new life\ will come. Happy Pas-ha. Bois, Reate Steiger, Mathias Ganadinger Monday Aprll11 s:po pm cc 406 THE FIRS'T ·ORIENTATION MEETINGS ARE SCHEDULED FOR THE FOLLOWING TERM ABROAD P·ROGRAMS: JAPAN SOCMED CHINA FRANCE MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, APRIL11 Al 4:30 IN HU 112 APRIL12 AT 4:30 IN HU 112 APRil13 AT 4:30 IN HU 113 APRIL14 AT 4:30 IN HU 112 The other programs will be scheduled the folloyving y.v~ek and announced in the next Concordiensls. We will distribute handouts anc.f discuss matters pertaining to each program. These meetings are very important and for your benem, so plan to attend and bring your questions! Call The Terms Abroad Office at XEl002 if you have any questions.

' .. Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, April 7, 1988 OlDltfllfbirnsis LETTERS Founded at Union College 1877 Professor Probes Potential F ratemity Policies Student Needs Activitie·s Broader Awareness Over the past year, the student body has gradually awakened from its deep slumber finding itse:tf actively involved in campus issues and making tangible differences, Save the grass. The pornography debate. The Skellar issue. The action that students have initiated towards these three concerns has demonstrated that students do care. But, about what? Activism has permeated the campus grounds: starting with last spring's student initiative to protect the lawn between Wells an:d McKean house from the cruel fate of hot asphalt .. It has furth.er moved the stud:.ent body to debate over whether pornography belonged on the Union College campus. And it has driyen students to demand the return of the traditional Skellar hours. These enterprises that the students have undertaken all shar~ the same charateristic: they are aU particular to Union College. Student motivations have emanated from rather egocentric concerns that focus 1hemselves on how it affects their immediate lives. The activist movement at Union fails in that it doesn't lend itself to issues that extend beyond the boundaries .Of the College. This does not mean there are no l!edeeming charact~ristics of the initiatives that the students have made since their 'awakening;'· the valuable aspect of the surge of activism lies in the momentum that it can provide for more intensive and outwardly-aware campaigns. Use the impetus created from the prior movement to fuel movement back encompass notions of positive consequence outside of the realm of Union-notions that have been voiced throughout other campuses, for example: divestment, AIDS awareness, civil rights, Contra Aid: Use the precedence created by other campuses and take a.clvantage of the ripe environment now in existence at Union to make a new kind of difference. Trial and Error Is Expensive Since its opening this fall, the College Center seems to be perpetually inventing new gimmicks for attracting students. How can you miss the impressive stamp machine and state of the art juke-box? The Dutch Hollow is trying hard with events and specials seemingly every night. While the administration's efforts to make the College Center more attractive to students is commendable, their methods are questi<mable. For example, the room on the third floor that started as a study lounge is currently a game room, and by the next year will be again a student lounge -. only after knocking down a wall, thereby eliminating the reheaisal room. The Dutch Hollow opened with deterringly high prices which the management now has plans to lower. And now for a mere five dollars, you can play your favorite 45 songs on the new jukebox (but ()nly afier the faculty is done eating lunch). Why have trial and error methods been used rather than polling the students, or even better, directly consulting student represenati ves on various social committees? Since Carnegie's renovation, the new College Center has h:ad disappointing patronage. While this problem demands solutions, unguided change is hit and miss at best. This response is not only economically unsound, it pos.tpones the ~ollege Center's establishment as the stude11t's social center. To the Editor: My March 3rd letter on the deleterious effects of fraternity culture seemed to stir at least a flurry of student reaction. Some seemed to feel that l treated fraternities unfairly. Still, there are those of us in tile college community Who have concerns about fraternities at Union. I . would like to point out a couple of areas where some of the debate might usefully he focused. Clarification of these matters woUld go a long way to allaying ~uspicions and fears. 1. It would be interesting to know what arrangements fraternities have made· to ensure the safety and comfort of any woman within their precincts; e.g Are there guest rooms for overnigh.t stays? · 2. Organizati()nsof the coJlege are justified. by the con- tributions they make, directly or indirectly, to the coll,ege's educational mission. What contributions do fraternities make to educational quality, and how are these contributions manifested? 3. Recent court decisions have called, into question the legality of exclusive men's clubs which in fact tran:sact business. Fraternities often p.ride themselves on their ability to ''network\ contacts with alwnnl in the business and technical worlds. ls there anything fraternities can do .to allay the . suspicion ()f discrimination? rt woi.ild 'be · nice to see me)tlbers of fraternities and their associates and frien!IS discuss some of these question$ It wotlld be illUininating to slteptits such as myself. - One more question: Wh.y doll:Jt fraternities ( an:d so~orities) go \co-ed\? Felmon John Davi:;, Assistant Professor ofPhilosoplly Fraternities: A Front fot Evasion of Issue To the Editor: I suspect that Felmon Davis was on the right track in suggesting that a sex .. . segregated campus serves to compliacte the interaction between male and female 1 students here. And 1 need not listen to more than one fraternity member t()ast \ ... the women, the horses, and the men . who ride them... \ at a formal gathering of college men and women to feel that such a suspicion is justified. In Union's.effort to secure our liberal arts educatiCln, we in- corporated a \liberallearning\ prog,.-am into the academi..c curriculum. Ideally, such a program has less to do with a student's aggravation· in fulfilling that last credit outside of·her major, than it does witb coming to understand and appreciate a new area througb one's e~sure to it. In other words, Union requires students to graduate llaV'Jng a broader .perspective than we may nave had as freshmen. May I suggest that Union make a conscio'llS effort to adW:ess areas outside of academics with ·this same ideal in mi11d. Specifically, Union mllSt address the in· terplay which fraternities and sor<>rities and single sex: dorms nave in our success at providing a liberal Wlderstandi:rig of the oppoSite sex:. · ·Now, before lam confused. for one attacking the fraternity systen1 as the cause of seldSt attitudes at Union, let me make II1Y'$elf perfectly clear. Mine i$ the assumption that Unio11's maintainlng the ''fraternity c11lture\ is a good excuse for o11r mot attacking apparent seldsm. It is my. opinion that Union College need not settle for SliCh an excuse. Respectfully, Anne Carl '88 Writing Center Tutors Wanted To the Editor: The Writing Center, which enters its fifth year in 1988-89, is looking for students who are interested in becoming Writing Tutors next year. We will hope to hire 4 or 5 new people to join the present staff. Th.ey need not qualify for Work..Study em- ployment. Tutors work at the Writing Center about 8-10 hours each week, in the afternoons and evenings, working mainly with . other students and their . writing. They require orien- All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject • letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the oph1ions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis tation and training in the methods we use, and must .IJe available for meetings prior to the opening of fall term, and weekly during the year. We want tutors who write well themselves, of course. But more important is the ability to help other students, with()ut doing it for them .. A good tutor is not just a \corrector.\ A knowledge of mechanics and grammar is basic, but the tutor also needs patience, imagination, and tact to help ;.;~aother . wdt~r through the .process of composing. Interested students ShOruld obtain an application from the Writing Center in Whitaker Eouse between 2 and 4:30p.m., or from my office in Humanities 21 () in the mornings. Ap- plications should be submitted II(} later than Monday, May 2, · but we will welcome tlleiJ;l before that. Alan Nelson Writing Center Director

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, April 7, 1988 ~nnrnrbirnsts LETTERS Fo~nded at Union College 1877 Professor Probes Potential Fraternity Policies Student Needs Activities Broader Awareness Over the pa.st year, the student body has gradually awakened from its deep slumber finding itself actively involved in can1pus issues and making tangible differences. Save the grass. The pornography debate. The Skellar issue. The action that students have initiated towards these three concerns has demonstrated that students do care. But, about what? Activism has permeated the campus grounds starting with last spring's student initiative tu protect the lawn between Wells and McKean house from the cruel faLte of hot asphalt. It has further moved the student body to debate over whether pornography belonged on the Union College campus. And it has driven students to demand the return of the traditional Skellar hours. These enterprises that the students have undertaken all share the sar11e charateristic: they are all particular to Union Colleg-e. Student motivations have emanated from rather egocentric concems that focus themselves ()n how it affects their immediate lives. The activist movement at Union fails in that it doesn't lend itself to issues that extend beyond the boundaries of the College. This does not mean there are no redeeming characteristics of the initiatives that the students have made since their 'awakening;' the valuable aspect of the s.urge of activism lies in the momentum that it can provide for more intensive and outwardly-aware campaigns. Use the impetus created from the prior movement to ftllel movement back encompass notions of positive consequence outside of the realm of Union-notions that have been voiced throughout other campuses, for example: divestment, AlDS awareness, civil rights, Contra Aid. Use the precedence created by other campuses and take advantage of the ripe environment now in existence at Union to make a new kind of difference. Trial and Error Is Expensive Since its opening this fall, the College Center seems to be perpetually inventing new gimmicks for attracting stude11ts. How can you miss the impressive stamp machine and state of the art juke-box? Th.e Dutch Hollow is trying hard with events and specials seemingly every night. While the administration's efforts to make the College Center more attractive to students is commendable, their methods are questionable. For example, the room on the third floor that started as a study lounge is currently a game room, and by the next year will be 2gain a student lounge - only after knocking down a wall, thereby eliminating the rehearsal room. The Dutch Hollow opened with deterringly high prices which the management now has plans to lower. And now for a mere five dollars, you can play your favorite 45 songs on the new jukebox (but only after the faculty is done eating lunch). Why have trial and error methods been used rather than polling the students, or even better, directly consulting student represenatives on various social committees? Since Came,gie's renovation, the new College Center has had disappointing patronage. While this problem demands solutions, unguided change is hit and miss at best. This response is not only economically unsound, it postpones the College Center's establishment as the student's soci~tl center. To the Editor: My March 3rd letter on the deleterious effects of fraternity culture seemed to stir at least a flurry of student reaction. Some seemed to feel that I treated fraternities unfairly. Still, there are those of us in the college community who have concerns about fraternities at Union. I would like to point out a couple of areas where some of the debate might usefully be focused. Clarification of these matters would go a long way to allaying suspicions and fears. 1. It would be interesting to know what arrangements fraternities have made to ensure the safety and comfort of any waman within their precincts; e.g Are there guest rooms for overnight stays? 2. Organizations of the college are justified by tile can- tri:butions they make, directly or indirectly, ta the college's educational mission. What contributions do fraternities make to educational quality, and how are these contributions manifested? 3. Recent court decisions have called into question the legality of exclusive men's clubs which in fact transact business. Fraternities o·ften pride themselvEs on their ability te \netwar'k•' contacts with alwnni in the business and technica.l worlds. Is there anything fraternities can do to allay the suspicion of d.iscrirnirution? It WCJuld be nice to see members af fraternities and their as5()ciates and friends discuss some of these questioas. It would be illuminating to skeptics 5Uch as mysei£. One m()re question: Why don't fraternities (and sororities) go \co-ed\? Felmon John Davis, Assistant Professor of Philosophy Fraternities: A Front for Evasion of Issue To the Editor: I suspect that Felmon Davis was on the right track in suggesting that a sex- segregated campus serves to compliacte the interaction between male and female students here. And I need not listen to more than one fraternity member toast \ ... the women, the horses, and tile men who ride them... \ at a formal gathering of college men and women to feel that such a suspicion is justified. In Union's effort to secure our liberal arts education, we in- corporated a \liberal learning\ program into the academic curriculum. Ideally, such a program has less to do with a student's aggravation in fulfilling that last credit outside of her major, than it does with coming to understand and appreCiate a new area through one's exposure to it. In other words, Union requires students to graduate having a broader perspective than we may have had as freshmen. May I suggest that Union make a conscious effort to address areas outside of academics with this same ideal in mind. Specifically, Union must address the in- terplay which fraternities and sororities and single sex dorms have inolll' success at providing a liberal understanding of the opposite sex. Now, I:Jefore I am confused for one attacking the fraternity system as the cause of sexist attitude5 at Union, let me make myself perfectly clear. Mine is the assumption that Union's maintaining the \fraternity culture•' is a good excuse for our noi attacking apparent sexism. It is my opinion that Union College need not settle for such a11 excuse. Respectfully, Anne Carl '88 Writing Center Tutors Wanted To the Editor: The Writing Center, which enters its fifth year in 1988-89, is looking for students who are interested in becoming Writing Tutors next year. We will hope to hire 4 or 5 new people to join the present staff. They need not qualify for Work-study em- ployment. Tutors work at the Writing Center about 8-10 hours each week, in the afternoons and evenings, working mainly with other students and their writing. They require orien- All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than .four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. Letters to the Editor and Conunentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis tation and training in the methods we use, and must be available for meetings prior to the opening of fall term, and weekly during the year. We want tutors who write well themselves, of course. Bat more important is the ability to help other students, withoat doing it for them. A good tutor is not just a \corrector.\ A knowledge of mechanics and grammar is basic, but the tutor also needs patience, imagination, and tact to help another writ~r through the process of composing. Interested students should obtain an application from the Writing Center ill Whitaker House between 2 and 4:30p.m., or from my office in Hwnanities 210 in the mornings. Ap- plicatiOils should be submitted no later than Monday, May 2, but we will welcome them before that. Alan Nelson Writing Center Director

CONCORDlENSIS, April .7, 1988 Page 13 LETTERS AND COMMENT ARIES Student Objects to Reduced Skellar Hours To the Editor: l fear I once again :fiDd my~elf in the position of leaving my harrnontous po.sition in the pers()nalcolumnsto ventlli'e out into the wilds .of. the editorial page. I know I promised my sordid fans I wollld n()t leave the personal column once the chains on Ale~nder Lane werr rem()ved (and I am. happy· to note they have beell), but alas, my home away .from home, a_.k.a. the Skellar, calls. In order to infor:m the \unillformed\, I .shall begin my tale at the begirming. Over Spring break, food service, aka Jan. Gray, decided that in order to maximize efficiency it would make the folloWing chap.ges on campus: West Dining HallJ the P~za Pub andthe Skellar would be closed on weekends (the Skellar would .als.o be closed weeknights).; freshmen would be glven the opportunity to eat in the dining hall at Caroegie (whatever its name iS); and week~nd pizza delivery would be available from the Dutch H()llow Pub, Now, seeing as I'm. an upperclassman. living off .. campus not many . of the ~hanges really affected met but the one change did. the Skellar, really hit hard. rve worked at the Skellar for about 4 years now out of enjoyment as well as financial reasons. In a scary sort of ~ay, the Skellar really has gro'Wn into my horne away from home, and it really destroyed me to come back. for my last ten weeks at Union to find out that I was going to be locked out of my bome for two days a week ... the two days of theweek I have the most time tc ·just ''hang-.out\ in the SkeUar. So I did what any pissed-off, responsible-student would do. I complained about it for a day, dreamed boycotting and picketing the Dutch Hollew, and cried in my beer i:lt Slapshots with ·other disgruntled Skellar lovers. Finally the responsible part kicked in, and I found myself in Dean Mammola's office. The Dean and r had a heart• to-heart discussion. I left his office feeling no better, but at least knowing I had said my piece. Within 48 hours, I recejved a can from the Dean's office asking me to meet with him, Jan Gray, and Mike Hiller. The next day we had our little meeting, which Aaron Carrol also attended, and we laid our cards out on the table, In the course of the meej:ing, the stu<\ents presented the following issues to food service and the administration: a.) the Skellar is much more than a mini-market and a food service \satellite\, and therefore its usage by the student · body should not be determined only on a sales basis; b.) the 21 Clup was a pointless waste of money, beci:lUSe we, the students, just weren't taking advantage of it, c.) the number of workers used to staff the Skellar could be cut significantly at hours when the Skenar isn't in great 'food service demand (late night); d.) it was poor judgment to implement the decision to close the Skellar on weekends during the last ten weekS of. the year; and e.) many students ·were losing employment. The l:ldministratiQn's points for making the changes . were mainly financial. It is looking to ·conSQlidate its food service operations in Carnegie on weekends in order to cut costs ~Y reducing its li:lbor base. The ]o bs originally cut at the .Skellar, 67 shifts in all, were promised to Skellar, Pizza Pub, and West weekend workers elsewhere on campu~. (I'm still not quite sure wbere, but that was the assurance we were given when we. returned from spring break to find our shifts cut in half or· takea .a way all together.) Afte.r some serious negotiations, the following agreement was reached; The Skellar·. would· be reopened on weekends effective April 8. The hours would be from 12:30 to 11:00 at night. 21 Club would be justly abolished and breakfasts would no longer be served. Thus, the r,eg11lar week hours of the Skenar would be 11:0~11:00, with the grill closing at 8:00 . -- .p.m., as it aoes on weekends. When I left the meeting, I was given the impression that the deli would 'be left opened on a t~ial basis; however, I have smce been utformed that it is not. These compromises con- siSted of some heavy reductions in Skellar expenses as 21•Club and. breakfasts were discon- tin1led and the number of Shifts were reduced from last term. Fortunately for the students, these compromises did· allow us to reopen the Skellar on weekends for what we an like to do best in the Skellar ... just hang-out! For those of you. who have made it this far, I would like to know how to appreciative I am, and I think we an should be, to Dean Mammola. Although we might all consider the initial deciSion to close the Skellar on weekends a mistake in the first place, l would' just like to commendthe Dean for acting so quickly and in so doing making me · think that the Admiidstration might actually care about how the students feel. And with re:Jpect to this, I offer the Administration some advice. In the future, when such changes need tD be mi:lde, to avoid ticking-off the students, maybe you could let us know about them a]lead of time or at least in some official capi:lcity, like letters in <>Ur mailboxes ... after all we seem to get everything else in our boxes. My final suggestion is that such drastic changes be left to larger transitioa periods, such as summer vacation or winter break. Didyoutbinkthat after a wee\t off in the sun and fiUl we weren't going to really care about what happened during spring term? Speaking for many of the seniors, we're tired. We're tired of the changes. Graated, some of them were for the better, we're not saying that they weren't. It's just that for ten lousy weeks we'd just like to sit back and enjoy ourselves and not have to worry about who's writing the ne::x~ \Lett~r to the Editor.\ Mary Ann Dunham '88 ADULT CPR CERTIFICATION tJNION COLLEGE ARMY ROTC andthe 364th General Hospital, United States Army Reserve, will . <lffer an adult CPR certification opportunity to the faculty, staff and student body of Union College. Courses will be taught on April 9 and 10, 1988 in the Humanities Building (Room 019) from 9:00 am to 3:00pm \ A complete course will be taught each day. Each course is limited to 20 people. An Ameri'can Red Cross Certificati<m card will be mailed to all participants who successfully complete the course. For more details contact RUSS ROSATI at (518) 783-2571. I.E. F. DEADLINE · · · The dea(llin~ for proposals for the Internal Education Foundatic:m in two categories-· . · student -initiated research projects and ''educationally innovative projects\ ·is Friday, April 22nd. Proposals for studenHnitiated research projects must have the written· approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. the proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (S1 00, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available .there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S1 00). Guidelines with respect to the I.E. F. are available in the Dean~s Office. Inquiries about I.E.!=., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Dean Terry Weiner, Associate Dean o.f Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that P,er diem rates are normally limited to $50;00 per day. Transportation costs .should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. (Human Subject Forms. completed). Drop the Carnegie Name Tothe Editor: Now that I realize just how well constructed your plan iis, now that I .see the course you have mapped out for Union College as it pertains to st11dent life, I would like to join the fight. As a matter of fact, I would like to go on record as: a volUllteer to help drop the Carnegie name. Let's have a l<Jok at alL the other goodi\es first. I applaud, one .. handed, the decision to close the pizza pub 011 spring weekends. Locking the doors during the best business hours- will guarantee plenty of red ink to justify golng out of business, Jan, and no one loves a self-fulfilling prophecy lilcei do. Cloning the Skellar jukebox in the remarkably sterile Colle,ge Center is similarly brilliant. We · stadents don't mew our a*' * fr:om our atmosphere, and we shall never notice how hollow (no pun intended) the Skellar tunes solUld in a f:l.uorescent~lit fishbowl, so when the wooden booths and Ron Michelin get shorter hours and the 21 CltLb goes by the boards, we'll just hang out at the Union mall. My point is that none of you seems to give a damn. abo11t history. Whatever you decide to name that building, it stands on a Carnegie foundation. Ignore that; it is merely our .past, and the ability to reinvent the past so as to be more comfortable with the present is a fascinating (if ignoble) thing. So drop the Carnegie name. If. someone. writes a check to fix up the Nott, change that too. And choose your colors carefully when you decide that this place no longer needs or deserves to be called Union. IanCGoke '&9 U.S. Troops in Honduras: Right or Wrong? By BRUCE HAY, JR. Jmy action can be accepted two ways, logically and emotionally. The sending of US troops to Honduras, is one &uch action. Logically, the sendilng of US troops to Honduras made absolutely no sense. Supposedly the presence of .American troops in Honduras was to show the Nicaraguan gov~rnment that America was prepared to support the Hon- duran government. How~ver, the fact that the American troops, from the ·62ild Airborne and 7th Infantry Division, had no intention of being involved militarily negated all chanee of exerting any political influence. The media made a great effort to let this point be knoW!Il. I believe the media has every right to report news, but when it jeopardizes an issue ,chat requires security, it should wait to report after the event has occurred. Placing the troops over a hundred mlles away from the conflict at the Honduran border where a major supply centel!' for the Contras was located was not helpful either; the only weap<>ns that the Army faced were ·the cameras of the press. Adding · insult to injury was the very way in whicb the troops were summoned. American officials proposed military intervention to Honduran President Jose Azcona Hoyo. Wllen Hoyo later sent a wire for assist8llce through an ambassador, it made n() mention of troops; evidently the decision had been made prior to the receivillg of the wire. Later in the week, all troops were pulled out having accompl~ed little or nothing important except .to sllow again President Reagan's support of the Contras despite no backing from Cclngress and virtually no support from the people footing the bill, the .American public. Emotionally, one would think me to agree blindly with any United States military action because of my affiliation with Navy ROTC, but in aU actuality this action does not even get my approval. Surely the .Ameriean servicemen can dG better tbings with their time in Honduras than to collect mosquito bites and a suntan. CPR Knowledge Benefits All To the Editor: The movement toward establishing a campus-based rescue squad to \stabilize patients\ before the paramedics arrive is a ll'lisdirected eff()rt. A lot of time· and money will be wasted · because there will be no im- provement in the delivery ·Of effective emergency care. If anything, it may be argued that <Jverzealous student rescuers will hamper t11e well trained para-professionals of the Schenectady Fire Department. What the Union commumity needs is a campus .. widedrive to certify all students in CPR (Basic Life SuJ>port). This will provide the immediate care that is necessary to truly save lives. Whether it be a ch(Jlting victim in one of the dining halls, an electrical shock situation with resulting cardiac arrest· victim in one of the dormitories, or a professor that collapses during lecture in cardiac arrest, the spontaneous a~:tions· of students, faculty, or staff trained in CPR will save· their lives. The battle is already lost if bystanders rush to, the nearest phone to call for help before Basic Life Support techniques have been initiated. Red Cross, I have taught at least one course ech year on- campus in a donnitory. Each Adult CPR course is only six hours long, and it is very feasible to eventually reach all of the students on campus in one year's time. Each year after the initial certifications, three- fourths of the students wotrld he re-certs, leaving only the freshman class to receive full six·hour instruction. The ramifi~ations of this goal are astounding. Each student we certify at Union will go llome to be around family and friends. The oods are tremendous that a number <>f Union students will meet with a respiratory and!or circulatory arrest. Students we have cer- tified in CPR Will be able to start lifesaving teclmiques that will save llves. this should be a tremendous reflection on the Union education! I enc<>urage students, faculty. staff, and administrators to consider the benefits of living in a community where most of the people around yoa know how to provide the care necessar,y to save your life. '--------- ...... -------------------------------1 As a CPR Instructor f()r the Thomas Christopher ARC, CPR lnstrtLctor ..

CONCORDIENSU,. April 7, 1988 Page 13 LETTERS AND COMMENTARIES Student Objects to Reduced Skellar Hours To the Editor: I fear I once again find myself in the position of leaving my harmonious position in the personal colunms to venture out into the wilds of the editorial page. I know I promised my S<>rdid fan.s I wotlldnot leave the personal column once the chains on Alexander Lane werr removed (and I am happy to rJ.ote they have been), but alas, rny 'borne away from home, a.k.a. the Skellar, calls. In order to inform the \uninformed\, I shall begin my tale at the beginning. Over spring break, food service, aka Jan Gray, decided that in order to maximize efficiency it would make the follewing changes on campus: West Dining Hall, the Pizza Pub and the Skellar would be closed on weekends (the Skellar would also be closed weeknights); freshmen would be given the epportunity to eat in the dining hall at Carnegie (whatever its name is); and weekend pizza delivery would be available from the Dutch Hollow Pub. Now, seeing as I'm an upperclassman living off- campus not many of the changes really affected me, but the one change did, the Skellar, really hit hard. I've worked at the Skellar for about 4 years now out of enjoyment as well as ~inancial reasons. In a scary sort of way, the Skellar really has grown into my home away from home, and it really destroyed me to come back for my last ten weeks at Union to find out that I was going to be locked out of my home for two days a week ... the two days of the week I have the most time to just \hang-out\ in the Skellar. So I did what any pissed\'Off responsible student would do. I complained about it for a day, dreamed boycotting and picketing the Dutch Hollow, and cried in my beer at Slapshots with other disgruntled Skellar lovers. Finally the responsible part kicked in, and I found myself in Dean Mammola's office. The Dean and I had a heart- to-heart discussion. I left his office feeling no better, but at least knowing I had said my piece. Within 48 hours, I received a call from the Dean's offil(]e asking me to meet with him,. Jan Gray, and Mike Hiller. The next day we had our little meeting, which Aaron Carrol also attended, and we laid our cards out on the table. In. the coUl'se .of the meeting, the stu<lents presented the follillwing issues to food service an!~ the administration: a.) the Skenar is much more than a mini-market and a food service \satellite\, and therefore its usage by the student body slulluld not be determined only on e~ sales basis; b.) the 21 Club was a pointless waste of money, beeause we, tbe students, just weren't taking advantage of it, c.) the number of workers used t() staff the Skellar could be cut sigJJificantly at hours when the Skellar isn't in great food senrice demand (late night) ; d.) it was poor judgment to implement the decision to close the Skellar on weekends during the last ten weeks of the year; anll e.) many students were losing employment. The administration's points fol\ making the changes were mainly financial. It is looking to cor1solidate its food service operations in Carnegie on weekends in order to cut costs by reducing its labor base. The jobs originally cut at the SkEllar, 67 shifts in all, were promised to Skellar, Pizza Pub, and West weekend workers elsewhere on campus. (I'm still not quite sure where, but that was the assurance we were given when we returned from spl'ing break to find our shifts cu:t in half or taken away all to~ether.) .After some serious negotiations, the following agreement was reached. The Skellar would be reopened on weekends effective AprilS. The hou.rs would be from 12:30 to 11 :00 at night. 21 Uub would be jlLStly abolished and breakfasts WCJuld no longer be served. Thus, the regular week hours of th:e Skellar would be 11:00-11:00, with the grill closing at 8:00 p.m., as it does ttn weekends. When I left the :mEeting, I was given the impression that the deli would be left opened on a trial basis; howevEr, I have smce been mfolilleci that it is not. These compli'!)mises con- sisted of S0me hea\Vy reductions in Skellar expenses as 2l\Club and breakfasts '\\'ere discon- tinued and the n1111i1ber of shifts were reduced from last term. Fortunately .f<Jr tth e students, these compromise~ did allow us to reopen the Skellar on weekends for what we all like to do best in the SkEllar.. . just hang-out! For those of yl()u~ who have made it this far, I would like to know how to apprEciative I am and I think we all should be, t~ Dean Mammola. Although we might all considei the initial decision to close the Skellar on weekends a mista.ke in the .first place, I would jtlSt like to commend the DeiUI for acting so quickly and in S<l c:loing making me think that the Admi11istration might actually care about how the students feel. And with res()ect to this, I offer the Administration some advice. In the future, when such changes need to ile made, to avoid ticking-off t.he students, maybe you could let us know about them ahead ()f time or at least in some offjcial capacity, like letters in ollf mailboxes ... after all we seem to get everything else tn our boxes. My final sugg:estion is that such drastic chmges be left to larger transition periods, such as summer vacation or winter break. Did you th]Ilk that after a weelt off in the s1111 and fWl we weren't going t,o really care about what hap!)ened during spring term? Speaking for many of the seniors, we're tired. We're ;tired of the changeso Granied, some of them were for tile better, we're not saying that they weren't. It's just that for te11leusy weeks we'd just like tm sit back and enjoy ourselves md not have to worry about who's writing the next \Letter t() ille Editor.\ Mary A!ln DWlham '88 ADULT CPR CERTIFICATION UNION COLLEGE ARMY ROTC and the 364th General Hospital, United States Army !Reserve, will offer an adult CPR certification opportunity to the faculty, staff and student body of Union Coll8ge. Courses will be taught on April9 an<i 10, 1988 in the Humanities Building (Room 019) fr()m 9:00am to 3:00pm A complete course will be taught each day. Each course is limited to 20 people. An American Red Cross Certification card will be mailed to all participants who successfully complete the course. For more details contact RUSS ROSATI at (518) 783-2571. I.E. F. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals fo;- the Internal Education Foundation in two categories- . student -initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, April 22nd. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a · faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. the proposals shou Itt be , submitted to the Dean's office (S100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally inno'Jative\ · proposals should submit them 10 the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office ( S i 00). Guidelines with respect to the LE.F. are available in the Dean's Office. lncglliries about I. E. F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Deanlerry Weiner, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that ~er diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should also refl.ect the best rates available. Students who .are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already b~en made. (Human Subject Forms completed). Drop the Carnegie N arne To tlleEditor: No~ that I realize just how well cCJn:Structed your plan is, now th;at I see tlle course you have rnapped out for Union College- GIS it pertains to student ·. life, I would like to join the · iight. As a matter of fact, I woul(J Li)!a:e to go on record as a volunte-er to help drop the Carnegie name. Let's have a look ~t all the other goodies first. I apJ:llat!d, oae-handed, the decisio11 to close the pizza pub on spr]!lg weekends. Locking the (\ol)rs during the best businEss hours will guarantee plent~ ()f J_-ed ink to justify going out of bllsiness, Jan, and no one loves a self-fulfilling prophecy like I do(). Cloning the Skellar jukebox in the rErn~r\kably sterile College Center is similarly brilliant. We studen:ts don't know our a* * from o11r atmosphere, and we shall never notice how hollow (no pun intended) the SkeHar tunes soWld in a fiuorescent-lit fishbowl, so when the wooden beoths and Ron Michelin get shorter hours and the 21 Club goes by the boards, we'll just bang aut at the Union mall. My point is that none of you seems to give a damn about history. Whatever you decide to name that building, it stands oN a Carnegie foundation. Ignore that; i:t is merely our 1 Jast, and the ability to reinvent the past so as to be more comfortable with the present is a fascinating (if ignoble) thing. So drop the Carnegie name. If someone writes a check to fix up the Nott, change that too. And choose your colors carefully when you decide that this place no longer needs or deserves to be called Union. Ian Cooke '89 U.S. Troops in Honduras: Right or VVrong? EyERUCEHAY, JR. An'f action can be accepted tw() ~ays, logically and emo-tit()nGtlly. The sending of US trO()>J>S t() Honduras is one such actio11. Logically, the sending of US tio()ps to Honduras made absDlut~l.y no sense. Sllp]losedly the presence of Americ:m troops in Honduras was tto show the Nicaraguan go\erm:nent that America was prEpaxeli to support the Hon- dura!l ~overnment. However, the fad that the American tro()op:s, from the 82nd Airborne and 7'th Infantry Division, had no int~ntion of being involved m!Jliarily negated all chance of exertin.g any political infiuence. The me<lia made a great effort to let this point be known. I belie'J'e the media has every rigllt t()o report news, but when it je<Jpardizes an issue that re(juires security, it should wait to r-e:port after the event has OCCtll.\feti. Placin~ the troops over a hun'<irred miles away from the conllict at the Honduran border wherEamajorsupply center for the Gontl'as was located was not helpful either; the only weapons that the Army faced were the cameras of the press. Adding insult to injury was the very way in which the troops were swnmoned. American officials proposed military intervention to Honduran President Jose Azcona Hoyo. When Hoyo later sent a wire for assistance through an ambassador, it made no mention of troops; evidently the decision had been made prior to the receiving of the wire. Later in the week, all troops were pulled out having accomplished little or nothing important except to show again President Reagan's support of the Contras despite no backing from Congress and virtually no support from the people footing the bill, the American public. Emotionally, one would think me to agree blindly with any United States military action because of my affiliation with Navy ROTC, but in all actuality this action does not even get my approval. Surely the American servicemen can do better things with their time in Honduras than to collect mosquito bites and a suntan. CPR Knowledge Benefits All TothEEditor: il!e movement toward esta!J.li~hing a campus-based resc11e squad to \stabilize patiemts\ before the par:arnedics arrive is a mis:dir-ected effort A lot of time ami money will be wasted· bee atJse there will be no im- pro-vement in the <ielivery of effeci:i\ve emergency care. If anyrtbiiJg, it may be argued that ov~rzealous student rescuers will h.arnper the well trained para-~rofessionals of the Scl'!elle~tady Fire Department. 'Nbat the Union community need:s is a campus-wide drive to ceMiiyr all students in CPR (Bas:ic Life Support). This will prCJv1de the immediate care th~tt is necessary to truly save li\ves.. Wbether it be a choking vic tim. in one of the dining halls, a11 Electrical .Hhock situation with I'esulting cardiac arrest vic:ti.m in one ofthe dormitories, or a professor that collapses dUJ'iJJg lecture In cardiac arrest, the spontaneous actions oi stu<lents, faculty, or staff trained in CPR will save their liv ~s. The battle is already lost if lly:standers rush to the ne:are:st phone to call for help be~01re Basic Life Support tEcllniques have been initiated. Red Cross, I have taught at least one course ech year on- campus in a dormitory. Each Adult CPR course is only six hours long, and it is very feasible to eventually reach all of the students on campus in one year's time. Each year after the initial certifications, three- fourths of the students would be re-certs, leaving only the freshman class to receive full six-hour instruction. The ramifications of this goal are astounding. Each student we certify at Union will go home to be around family and friends. The odds are tremendous that a nmnber of Union students will meet with a respiratory and/or circulatory arrest. Students we have cer- tified in CPR will be able to start lifesaving techniques that will save lives. this should be a tremendous reflection on the Union education! I encourage students, faculty, staff, and administrators to consider the benefits of living in a community where most of the people around you know how to provide the care necessary to save your life. 1.---------------------~--------------1 J...s a CPR Instructor for the Thomas Christopher ARC, CPR Instructor . l

\ Page 14 CONCORJJLENSIS, April 7, 1988 LETTERS Tenure Process Qttestioned Forum President Clarifies Gel time· Report To the Editor: .As some of the mechanical engiaeering students are aware, I was denied tenurability by a recent deciSion (December 1987) of the Faculty Review Board (FRB ). Tenure decisions at Union College are based ·on ratings of the faculty member's scholarly activities and teaching. In my case, my scholarly activities were rated excellent, but the qualit;y of my teaching was judged not 1<> be sufficiently high to warrent tenure. For purposes of tenure review, quality of teaching .is deter- mined based on course evalWltion numbers and Ad Hoc Committee interviews with twenty-five randomly selected students who hadt.aken a course from the professor being reviewed. Thus, the teaching rating is based 100 percent on student input. Jt is my im- pression that the FRB considers a student evaluation of 4.2 or higher as an indication of high quality teaching. Student evaluations of my courses have generally improved over the six years I have been at Union College and for the last year or two, my student evaluations have been in the range 3.4-3.8. Unfortunately no one I have talked to on campus knows what the student evaluations measure an dhow the numerical val11e is related to the quality of the course cmd how much the students like the course, and how comfortable they are with the instructo1·'s style of teaching. My primary objective in teaching a course is to maximize how much the students learn. and to offer the students a high quality educational experience. The level of my courses is set such that the most serious students are challenged and that all students must work hard to attain a grade acceptable to them (that ls at least a B for most students). I work very hard in presenting my courses and expect the students to do likewise. Over the last several months I have discussed my teaching with a large nwnber of students who have been in my classes (past and present). All the students had a common reac- tioll to my courses - the level of the course was high; the work req'Uired was more than they desired, and the amount learned was greater than in most other courses they took. This assessment of my courses by the students is ·certainly consistent with my intent so I was not displeased by their comments. My engineering courses stress hands-on laooratory work, and the use of the computer (primarily the PCs) is integrated into most of the courses. I can attest to the fact that many students are not happy with the ad.ditio11al work that results ·from a serious lab component in a course of the use ofthe computer especially when all sections of a partic'Ular course do not have tllese requirements. My courses are intended to maximize what the studentslearn, not to maximi$e the student evaluation numbers at the end of the course. I have been involved With engineering for over thirty years - twenty years working in industrial research laboratories such as the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and the General Electirc Research Center, and ten years teaching (six years at Union and four years at Clarkson College). Based on that ex· perience, I feel I am in a good position to know what students should learn in .my courses-- and how .to relate the course material to the real world of engineering. In my recent discussions with students regarding the evaluation of teaching for tenllr'e review, most of them have seemed surprised that tlle course evaluation numbers are taken so seriously by the FRB and th1,1t relatively small variations in the numbers are treated as a meaningful in- dication of major differences in the quality of teaching between faculty members. The students I talked with felt that all Union students should be made- aware of the precision with which the course evaluation numbei.s are treated by the FRB with the hope that the students would take more time and care in preparing the course evalW1tion sheetsattheend of' each course. The students were also Slll'- prise<J-- to learn that for the tenure review, the only inputs for evaluation of teaching came from students, and that the department's assessme11t of the contribution of the person being reviewed to the department's program was largely ignored. In the last two years the FRB has <fecided negatively on the tenurability of faculty members from the Mechanical Engineering Department. Both were strongly supported by the department. In the last twenty years, only two M.E. faculty (Shanebrook and Milillo) have been granted tenure. It is dif- ficult for a department to function when it cannot r~place retiring tenured faculty with colleagues wliom they judge to be fully qualified. I hope that this letter will better acquaint the students witb the tenure review process ami the important part played in it by the course evaluation procedure. In addition, I wanted to discuss the dilennna faced by a faculty member who desires to maximize what the students learn in his-her course and at the same time faces the neeessity of attaining course evaluation numbers judged to be superior by the FRB. Andrew F. Burke Professor Mechanical Engineering REAPPOINTMENT REVIEWS The Mechanical Engineering Department is conducting reappointment reviews for Professor P. Ranganathan and Professor M. Rivera. Anyone wishing to contribute written or oral testimony. regarding either individual's teaching, professional activities, or college service is strongly encouraged to contact Professor Frank Milillo, Chair, Mechanical Engineering Department. To the Editor: Last t~rm, ·Concordiensis printed a letter from Bradley Lewis, Professor of Economics, which eC)mmel1ted on the Student F()rum's report on Gel- Time. Unf()rtunately, Professor Lewis's· satirical . essay was severly misdirected as he mistakenlly perceived the Student Forwn's initiative as · an opinion letter rather than a report. As. a result, Professor Lewis emded up constru~ting an argument which was both misleading and inaccurate. His letter, therefore necessitates a clarification so that the campus · co:rnmunity may trllly tm• • derstandtbe Forums' report. The teport based on its examination of Gel-Time on the new scheduling system's effectiveness in reali~ing its three original goals.: to create an envimnrnent more con- ·ductive. tostudy, to reduce mid- . week p;artying, and m relieve students of some of the academic pressure which ac- . comp:mies the tri-semester . system. · In addressing the first goal, the repo;rt C'oncluded, based on a survoey- (which incl11ded over 50% of the student-body), Gel- Time makes studying more difficult :for students. Although studen:ts felt they had more time to study, the new time slots exacted stringent time restraints on the students, particularly in the afternoons. As a resJJlt, students do not use this, Sillpposed \extra time\ to study. Professor Lewis, I believe, perceived this element of the re(lort to mean that, since the students feel that they have extra time to study, they are not studying, He, then, satirically commlfnted that students ought to be responsible enough to budget their time correctly. It is clear, however, that in making this :point~ Professor Lewis atta~ked an opinion that the Student Forum report did not assert at all. The F()rum does not dispute that students ought FtEA.PPOINTMENT REVIEW FOR PROFESSOR HUGH FOLEY In ihe next few weeks, a reappointment review wi:ll: be conducted for Hugh. Foley, Assistant Professor of Psychoi- O!JY. Alt students, fac- ulty. an.d other members of ttle community who would like ·to speak to the c.ommittee about Prof. Foley's teaching, sc:hoiarly work, or com-·. rnunity service are in-· vite>CI to contact Suzie t Benack, Psychologyr Department, x62:58. If you are interested i:n being an usher for Commencement · '88, see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office (4th floor College Center) to .be able to budget their time; however, the report does state that students generally believe that the time slots make studying more difficult. Therefore, the conclusiOJl that Gel-Time's first goal (to create an environment more con- ductive to .study) has .not been acheived,is not unfounded. In addressing the second gQal of Gel-Time, the report stated that the students ·polled over- whehningly concluded that Gel- Time has failed in this respect. Mid-week partying has in- creased under Gel- Time. Professor Lewis again sa1·castically suggested that students who are not respon- sible enough to budget their time effectively would then have to be treated like children with \reql.lired study-halls, etc.,\ Yet, this conunentary is wholly unnecessary, as the . Forum report merely specifies that the second goal of Gel- Time has been counter- productive. That's all. Mid- week partying has increased tremendously . In addressing the third goal of Gel~ Time, the report stated that students who were surveyed indicated that academic pressure has not been positively effected by the new schedule. Among the reasons students gave to explain for this were the above mentioned problems. with studying, exceedingly long classes, and lag-time between classes. In this attack on this section of the report, Professor Lewis continued to take the Forums' findings to an absurd extreme by p:1entioning the \next step\ which was seven- day /week classe$. My -oJJly responce to this approach is that, according to Professor Lewis's logic, we can naturally conclude that the ''next step'' in the implementation of Gel-Time . is that all all classes meet only on alternate Mondays for six hours and forty min11tes each, thus allowing for immense amoWlts of \Gelling.\ Ob- viously, this solution is ridiculous; nevertheless, it was this form of rhetoric which Bradley Lewi~ utilized in his relentless attack, not only on the Forwp report, but also on · . students .tbemselves - {the · Spuds Mackenzie · remark certain\y eom.es to mind). The report then mentioned several adjustment problems which were disclosed in the surveys, for example, 1~rofessors not showing up· ,on their off days .. Professor Lewis sarcastfcally suggested the idea of having professors carry 24 hour beepers. The problem with this approach is that the report did not state that Oel• .· Time ·cannot work at Union College because professors do not show up as often. In f~ct, the report did not even state that this phenomenon is necessarily bad; rather, it merely a~serts that students surveyed men- Honed this is something, which has become an imfedirtlent in their edueaticma pr(Jeess. Lewis'S comment was un- necessary . In conclusion, I am forced to reassert tny disappointment with Professor Lewis's nlisdir.ected attack. Had the Student Forum report been a group of :loosely connected, · baseless assertions in the 'fonn of an opihion letter, I might have been disposed to agree · with his approach. However, it is clear that the report was. based on a survey C)f oveJ M% of the student body, and statistics· froin the R~gistrar. It was a responsible initiative to examine an· unp~pular scheduling system whic'h has not· satisfied its main o~ jectives. I regret tl1at PrDfessor Lewis and·~ perhaps, others may have misunderstood the Forum report. And, I. hope that this letter will serve to allow the campus community to better understand both the Forwnrs initiative and.Qel-~ime. Michaeli:Iiller StudentForum President b rl n• pi a: a tl II 01 01 t' a tl tl l1 sl Vi a f·l y q b n ~ 0: g o· Sl q '\ B li tl h n a s· B

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS,. April 7, 1988 LETTERS Tenure Process Questioned To the Editor: As some of the mechanical engineering students are aware, I was denied tenura bility by a recent decision (December 1987) of the Faculty Review Board (FRB). Tenur.-e decisions at Union College are based on ratings of the faculty member'S scholarly activities and teaching. In my case, my scholarly activities were rated excellent, but the qualit:y of my teaching was judged not to be sufficiently high to warrent tenure. For purp()ses of tenure review, quality of teaching is deter- mined based on course evaluation numbers and Ad Hoc Co~nmitt ee interviews with twenty-five randomly selected students who had taken a course from the profess«lr being reviewed. Thus, the teaching rating is based 100 percent on stude11t input. .It is my im- pression that the FRB considers a stu.:tent evaluation of 4.2 or higher as an indication of high quality teaching. Student evaluations of my courses have gene!\ally improved over the six years I have been at Union College and for the last year or two, my student evaluations have been in the range 3.4-3.8. Unfortunately no one I have talked to on campus knows what the student evaluations measure and how the numerical value is related to the quality of the eourse and how much the students like the C«lurse, and how ()omfortable they are with the instructor's style of teaclling. My primary objective in teaching a course is to maximize how much the students learn and to offer the students a high quality educational experience. The level of my courses is set such that the most serious students are challenged and that all students must work hard to attai:n a grade acceptable to them (that is at least a B for most students). I work very hard in presenting my courses and expect the students to do likeMfle. Over the last several months I have discussed my teaching with a large nwnber of students who have been in my classes (pas:t and present). All the students had a common reac- tion to my courses -the level of the course was high; the work req11ired was more than they deslred, and the amount learned was greater than in most other courses they took. This assessment of my cow-ses by the students is certainly consistent with my intent so I was not displeased by their comments. My engineering cou.rses stress hands-on laboratory work, and the use of the computer (pr1marily the PCs) is integrated into most of the courses. I can attest to the fact that many students are not happy with the additional work that results from a serious lab component in a course of the use of the computer especialy when aU sections of a particular course do not have these requirements. My courses are intended to maximize what the students learn, not to maximize the student evaluatien numbers at the end ef the course. I aave been involved with engineering for over thirty years ~ twenty years working in industrial research laborateries such as the Jet Propulsion Laboratory and the General Electirc Research Center.-, and ten years teaching (six years at Union and four years at Clarkson College). Based on that ex- perience, I feel I am in a good position to know what students should learn in my courses- and how to relate the course material to the real world of engineering. In my recent discussions with students regarding the evaluation of teaching for tenure review, most of them have seemed surprised that the course evaluation numbers are taken so seriously by the FRB and that relatively small variations in the numbers are treated as a meaningful in- dication of major differences in the quality of teaching between faculty members. The students I talked with felt that all Union students should be xnade aware of the precision with which the course evaluation numbers are treated by the FRB with the hope that the students would take more time and care in preparing the course evaluation sheets at the end of each course. The students were also sur- prised to learn that for the tenure review, the only inputs for evaluation ()f teaching came from students, and that the department's assessment of the contribution of the person being reviewed to the department's program was largely ignored. In the last two years the FRB has decided negatively on the tenurability of faculty members from the Mechanical Engineering Department. Both were strongly supported by the department. In the last twenty years, only two M.E. faculty (Shanebrook and Milillo) have been granted tenure. It is dif- ficult for a department to function when it cannot replace retiring tenured faculty with colleagues whom they judge to be fully qualified. I hope that this letter will better acquaint the students with the tenure review process and the important part played in it by the cow-se evaluation procedw-e. In addition, I wanted to discuss the dilemma faced by a faculty member who desires to maximize what the students learn in his-her course and at the same time faces the necessity of attaining course evaluation numbers judged to be superior by the FRB. Andrew F. Burke Professor Mechanical Engineering REAPPOINTMENT REVIEWS The Mechanical Engineering Department is conducting reappointment reviews for Professor P. Ranganathan and Professor M. Rivera. Anyone wishing to contribute written or oral testimony regarding either individual's teachi~g, professional activities, or college service is strongly encouraged to contact Professor Frank Milillo, Chair, Mechanical Engineeri,ng Department. Forttm President Clarifies Gel time Report To the Editor: Last term, Concordiensis printed a letter from Bradley Lewis, Professor of Economics, which commented en the Student Farum's report on Gel- Time. Unfortunately, Professor Lewis's satirical essay was severly misdirected as he mistakenly perceived the Student Forum's initiative as an opinian letter rather than a report. As a result, Professor · Lewis ended up constructing an argument which was both misleading and inaccurate. His letter, therefore necessitates a clarification so that the campus community may truly un- derstand the Forums' report. The report based on its examination of Gel-Time on the new scheduling system's effectiveness in realizing its three original goals: to create an environment more con- ductive to study, to reduce mid• week partying, and to relieve students of some of the academic pressure which ac- companies the tri-semester system. In addressing the first goal, the report concluded, based on a survey (which included over 50% of the student-body), Gel- Time makes studying more difficult for students. Although students felt they had more time to study, the new time slots exacted stringent time · restraints on the students, particularly in the afternoons. As a result, students do not use this, supposed \extra time\ to study. Professor Lewis, I believe, perceived this element of the report to mean that, since the students feel that they have extra time to study, they are not studying. He, then, satirically commented that students ought to be responsible enough to budget their time correctly. It is clear, however, that in making this point, Professor Lewis attacked an opinion that the Student Forum report did not assert at all. 1'he Forwn does not dispute that students ought REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW FOR PROFESSOR HUGH FOLEY In the next few weeks, a reappointment review will be conducted for Hugh Foley, Assistant Professor of Psychol- ogy. All. students, fac- ulty, and other members of the community who would like to speak to the committee about Prof. Foley's teaching, scholarly work, or com-·. munity service are in-· vited to contact Suzie t Benack, Psychologyr Department, x6258. If you are interested in being an usher for Commencement '88, see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office (4th floor College Center) to be able to budget their time; however, the report d()es state that students generally believe that the time slots. make studying more difficult. Therefore, the conclusian that Gel-Time's first goal (t~ create an environment more con- ductive to study) has not been acheived, is nat uruounlled. In addressing the sec()nd goal of Gel-Time, the repot't stated that the students polled over- whelmingly cancluded that Gel- Time has failed in this respect. Mid-week partying has in- creased under Crel-Time. Professor Lewis again sarcastically suggested that students who are !lot respon- sible enough to bud~et their time effectively wo11ld then have to be treated like children with \required stl!dy-halls, etc.,'' Yet, this commentary is wholly unnecessary, as the Forum repart merely specifies that the second goal of Gel- Time has been counter- productive. That's ~H. Mid- week partying has increased tremendously. In addressing the third goal of Gel-Time, the report stated that students who were surveyed indicated that academic pressure has not been positively effected by the new schedule. Among the reasons students gave to explain for this we:re the above mentioned problems with studying, exceeding:ly long classes, and lag-time between classes. In this attac:k on this section of the report, Professor Lewis continued to take the Forums' findings to 11.n absurd extreme by mentioning the \next step\ which was seven- day/week classes. My -only respcmce to this approach is that, according to Professor Lewis's logic, we can natw-ally conclude that the \neg:t step\ in the implementation of Gel-Time is that all all classes meet only on alternate Mondars for six hours and forty minutes each, thus allowing for immense amounts of \Gelling.\ Ob- viously, this solution is ridiculous; nevertl:leless, it was this form of rhetoric which :Bradley Lewis utilized in his relentless attack, not only on the Farwn report, but also on . students themselves - (the Spuds Mackenzie remark certainly comes to mind). The report then mentioned several adjustment prablems which were disclosed in the surveys, for example, professors not showing up on their Gff days. ProfessGr Lewis sarcastically suggested the idea of having professors carry 24 hour beepers. The problem with this approach is that the report did not state that Gel- rime cannot work at Union College because professors do not showup as often. In fact, the report did not even state that this phenomenon is necessarily bad; rather, it merely asserts that students surveyed men- tianed this is something, which has become an impediment in t:heir educational process. Lewis's comment was un- necessary. In conclusion, I am forced to reassert my disappointment with Professor Lewis's misdirected attack. Had the Student Forwn report been a group of loosely connected, baseless assertions in the form of an opinion letter, I might have been disposed to agree with his approach. However, it is clear that the report was. based on a survey of over 50% of the student body, and statistics from the Registrar. It was a responsible initiative to examine an unpopular scheduling system which has not satisfied its main ob- jectives. I regret that Professor Lewis and, perhaps, others may have misunderstood the Forum report. And, I hope that this letter will serve to allow the campus community to better understand both the Forum's initiative and Gel-Time. Michael Hiller Student Forwn President . ~ ., I j \ .i i ' ., ' ,) i ' I 'i / I 'l l !!! b r n p a a t] n 0 0 t' a ti ti I s v a f y q t I1 il 0 g 0 s ~ v I I t t r s l t J

CONCORDtENSIS,. A,prtl 7, 1988 Page 15 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY A Tribute to :or. Richard ~eynman By ALANDESA.LVIO A Nqbel 'prize has always been a tremendous honor, recognizin~ the ex:ceptional nature of both a pers«>n and a person's work. It is usaally seen as the crowning achif3vement in a science career, recognizing the advancement of the com~ man good. Nobels are handed out in several disciplines, but only in physics in the l·ate twentieth century can y:ou take a course which starts ()Ut .listing the top ten ares of research with the possibility of winning one. It's quite easy in physics, simply .pick one of the ares in which the next discovery will alter our perception of the framework of existence,' and you have fertile Nobel territory. strring of physicists. He worked ()n the. Manhattan. Proj~ct with many of them, then served as a theoretical physicist at Cornell and, until his death, at the California Institute of 1!echnology. His work with Murray Gell•Mann culminated ill 1958 with an excellent ex- planation of one aspect of quant\Ull electrodynamics, specifically the wea)t in- teraction, which affects radioactive decay among other things, and they earned the Nobel prize for that work in 1965 .. Dr. Feyriman passed away this year, 1988, at the age of seventy. Genius has no meaning for me.I don't understand what makes a painter ·great, or a composer, or a · musician, although I can perceive much of the beauty they create. Bhysics shock. Then, on live TV, Dr. Feynman demonstrated just what had llappened and why by dipping a piece oi. the O·ring material (which he had removed from a model of the SRB joint himself) into the pitcher .of icewater in front of him and then easily snapping it in two. The superficial problem and its solution were thus displayed. This rather elegant display was . spontaneous, something Dr. Feynman had thougyht of the night before at his dinner table wi:th his glass of ic~water. But it was a product of the way his mind worked, and his . methods are made abundantly clear in his article in the February Physics Today about his part in the investigation into the accident. He always went to the source, talking directly to the engineers involved, and when he had all the in- formation, he saw the answer. This is clear throughout his article - he couldn't understand why no one else saw the answer. ·- . ' - \Now tzy to fulda few that look like a bear or a d<Jg or something.\ From What's So Funny About Science by Sidney Harris For several reasons the quantum revolution in the beginning of this century led to many Nobel prizes, and that era is awe inspiring for the nuniber of very bright .minds that gathered together and churned out an amazing· stream Qf stunning ideas. . Planck and quanta, Einstein and bis triple whammy Heisenberg, Dire, Bethe, Fermi, Pauli, etc. The list is tremendous, and.the work they did in quantum mechanics has led to ongoing research in nuclear, particle, sDlid state and high ~energy physics still sur:prising people today. I've brought all this up because their wollk is found under the history section of your physics text, and they are all gone, for the mos~ part. Einstein and his colleagues were revered but unfortunately misunderstood, and Einstein himsell aln,lost defied by this coun~lj: :EveiJ toiiayllfs name.fs . simult!l!leous)y synonymous with both genius and \absent- minded professor.'' is similar ~or nie. It's simply mathematics in a special · context, with the inherent beauty of mathematics. The \genius\ accl~imed ·some in- dividua'ls for their ability to understand and unravel the underlying \order\ or \method\ of nature is always simply a great understanding of tbe math involved, with the beauty of nature in many cases giving clues as to final answer. In most cases that excellent probing, piercing, perceiving · ' mind was not able to transfer its full potential to other preblems, · I Einstein is a case in point, his many quotations springing more · from his tremendous innate kindness than from any genius. Physics Has You Baffled? I PRNATE PHYSICS TUTORING ANTHONY VRONDISSIS 370-6831 STUARTPRA TT 377-6415 I Feynman 1 s death led me to recall- that startling incident in .1986 t\fter the Challenger ex- .plosiorf · when e'Ver~one was· ,_ running around pointing the finger at everyone else, looking for s<:apE)goats, bemoaning the failur~. of the U.S., etc. The entir~ country ~as ~n. a state Qf Group Rates Available · - ... Richard Feynman was another in this tremendous Space Capsule: Mars \A . fTh ·:· ge -o · .. e Earth\ Lecture at Dudley B~ DR. RALPH A.LPHER Dudley Observatory (which is one of the five parts of Union University, by the way) sponsors a series of Skywatch lectures in the Capitol District. The locale is rotated among Union, RPI, SUNY-Albany and ' from time-to-time the Schenectady or New York State museums. Dudley is sponsoring a lec- ture on Thursday, April 7, 1988 at 8:00 p.m. at the Union College Centr Auditorium, by Professor Stephen G. Brush, who is Professor in the Department of History and in the Institute for Physical Science and Tecllnology, of the University of M(lryland. ·Prof. Brush happens to be the winner of the 1981-19IUI Herbert C. Pollock Award of the Dudley Observatory, an annuM award given for studies in the history of astronomy or astrophysics, although winning an award from Dudley is not a prerequisite for our Skywatch lecturers. · Prof. Brush's topic will be \The Age of jhe Earth and the Creation-Evolution Con- troversy.'' The controversy continues to be a current and newsworthy topic; Prof. Brush has b~en one of the major participants in the ongoing debate, and has lectured and written extensively against the arguments of creationists. Prof. Brush is a distinguished scientist and historian of physics and astronomy, and I can personally attest to his being an excellent lecturer as well. The subject of his lecture should be of great interest to members of the Union College community. It will be at a level suitable for a general audience with no need for specialized knowledge in · history, astronomy or.physics. The talk is .open to the public, and there is no admission charge. By MARTY HECK The red planet has been a favorite of scientists and others for many years. Before iintense scrutiny by telescopes and landings by probes, Mars was the archetypical planet f.or alien life. H.G. Wells launched his invasion from tbispl~net; other • authors such as Edgar Rice Burroughs put friendly life on the planet. rn recent decdes exploration of the planet has eliminated peFceptions of little green men waiting to conquer the Earth; but there are still ' many other mysteries surrounding the planet. United States ex:ploration of the planet mars peaked in the mid-1970's, with the landing of Viking probes. The Viking photo-surveys, along with those of the earlier Mariner 9, provided great detail of por- tions of the Martian landscape. · America's future plans for exploring our sister planet ex:tend only to the \Mars Ob- server,\ an orbital e~loration craft scheduledfor 1992. However, American .scien- tists are working in conjunction with Soviet scientists to choose PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM \Quark Confinement- An Introduction\ P.rofessor Janos Polonyi Department of Physics arid Center for Theoretical Physics Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA Date: 4/7/88 Thurssday Place: Ste·inmetz Hall 106 Time: 4:45 p.m. Refreshments will be served at 4:30 p.m. a Soviet landing spot. The Soviets are planning extensive landings on Mars, culminating in a manned mission sometime at the beginning of the next century. First in 1994, they will land a robot probe .. It is the site of this landing that Soviet and American scientists were discussing at their meeting at Brown University two weeks ago~ One site being examined is the site of the Viking 1 lander, Chryse, a flat plain i:n the northern hemisphere of tlle planet. Another liltely site, Hellas, is a large southern basin in close proximity to highlands that could easily be examined by a roving probe. Both sites have advantages and disad- vantages. The Chryse site would be the safest, but provides limited terrain for study. The Hellas site provides more. ~versity, but would be more difficult to land in. Martian landings may reveal many things. Studies of ancient rock in eroded rivet beds could give the geological history of the planet. Lava from volcanoes could give insight to the dynamics of the planet. Samples of the polar ice caps, the only place that water is known t() exist on the planet's surface, could yield insight into the possibility of life, albeit very simple, on the planet. A polar landing would be the most difficult. However, there is evidence to suggest that Mars tipped 9() degrees on its polar axis. The north and south pole would then be at the equator. Whatever the final decision, the Soviet ex:ploration and landings will no doubt provide us with a great deal of infonnation and hopefully spur the U.S. into further explora~ion of Mars. MINERVA LECTURE April Ttb J1 11m 61/ege Center Auditorium 'CHARLES BAlTAV'' is a profeSSQr of physics at Columbia University.The author of several books and journal articles, his most · recent research has been In the areas of elementary particle physics and astro-physics. He was a Sloan fl!llow fro,n1966 to 1968~ He earned his B.S. from UNION ln1958and his MA and Ph.D. from Yale University. ...

I ,j I i i I ., ' ' ,, CONCORDIENSJS, April 7, 1988 Page 15 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY A Tri'bute to Ora Richard Feynman By ALAN DE S.ALVIO A Nobel ~rize has always been a tremendollS honor, recognizing . the exceptional nature of both a person and a person's work. It is usually seen as the crowning achievement in a science career, recognizing the advancement <lf the com- mon good. Nobels .are handed out in several disciplines, but only in physics i11 the late twentieth century c~n you take a course which starts out listing the top ten ares of research with the possibility of winning one. It's quite easy in physics simply pick one of the ares i~ which the next discovery will alter om perception of the framework of existence,· and you have fertile Nobel territory. strring of physicists. He worked on the Manllattan Project with many of them, then served as a theoretical physicist at Cornell and, until his death, at the CalHornia Institute of Technalogy. His work with Murray Gell-Mann culminated in 1958 with an excellent ex- planation of one aspect of quantum electrodynamics, specifically the weak in- teraction, which affects radioactive decay among other things, and they earned the Nobel prize for that work in 1965. Dr. Feynman passed away this year, 1988, at the age of seventy. shock. Then, on live TV, Dr. Feynman demonstrated just what had happened and why by dipping a piece of the 0-ring material (which he had removed from a model of the SRB jCiint him~elf) into the pitcher of icewater in front of hitn and then easily snapping it in two. The superficial problem and its solutiort were thus displayed. This rather elegant display was spontaneous, something Dr. Feynman had thougyht of the night before .at his dinner table with his glass of icewater. But it was a product of the way his mind worked, and his methods are macle abundantly clear in his article in the February Physics Today about his part in the investigation into the accident. He always went to the source, talking directly to the engineers i11volved, and when he had all the in- formation, he savv the answer. This is clear throughout his article - he couldn't understand why no one else saw the answer. \Now try to find a few that look like a bear or a dog or something.\ From What's So Funny About Science by Sidney Harris For several reasons the quantum revolution in the beginning of this ce:ntury led to many Nobel prizes, and that era is awe inspLring for the number of very bright minds that gathered together and churned out an amazing stream of stunning ideas. Planck and quanta, Einstein and his triple whammy Heisenberg, Dire, Bethe,_ Fermi, Pauli, etc. The list is tremendous, and the werk they did in quantum mechanics has led t() ongoing research in nuclear, particle, solid state and high energy physics still surprising people today. I've brought all this up because their work is found under the history section of your physics text, and they are all gone, for the most part. Einstein and his colleagues were revered but unfortunately misundersto()d, and Einstein himself almost defied by this country. Even today his name is simultaneously synonymous with both genius and \absent- minded professor.\ Genius has no meaning for me.I don't tmderstand what makes a painter great, or a composer, or a musician, although I can perceive much of the beauty they create. Physics is similar for me. It's simply mathematics in a special context, with the inherent beauty of mathematics. The \genius\ acclaimed S()me in- dividuals for thek ability to understand and unravel the underlying \order\ or \method\ of nature is always simply a great understanding of the math involved, with the beauty of nature in many cases giving clues as to final answer. In most cases that excellent probing, piercing, perceiving mind was not able to transfer its full potential to other problems, Einstein is a case in point, his many quotations springing more from his tremendous innate kindness than from any genius. Physics Has You Baffled? I PRNATE PHYSICS TUTORING ANTHONY VRONDISSIS 370-6831 / : ! STUARTPRATT317-64~ ! Feynman's death led me to recall that startling incident in 1986 after the Challenger ex- plosion when everyone was running around pointing the finger at everyone else, looking for scapegoats, bemoaning the failure of the U.S., etc. The entire country was in a state of ; i Group Rates Available I ! Richard Feynman was another in this tremendous Space Capsule: Mars \Age of The Earth\ Lecture at Dudley By DR. RALPHALPHER Dudley Observatory (which is one of the five parts of Union University, by the way) sponsors a series of Skywatch lectures in the Capitol District. The locale is r<ltated among Union. RPI. SUNY -Albany and from time-to-time the Schenectady or New York State museums. Dudley is sponsoring a lec- ture on Thursday, April 7, 1988 at 8:00 p.m. at the Unioll College Centr Auditoriwn, by Professor Stephen G. Brush, who is Professor in the Department of History and in the Institute fCir Physical Science and Tecltnology, of the University of Maryland. Prof. Brush happens to be the winner of the 1987-198S Herbert C. Poll{)ck Award of the Dudley Observatory, an ~nnual award given for studies in the history of astronomy or astrophysics, although winning an award f1·om Dudley is not a prerequisite for our Skywatch lecturers. Prof. Brush's topic will be \The Age of Jhe Earth and the Creation-Evolution Con- troversy.\ The controversy continues to be a current and newsworthy topic; Prof. Brush has been one of the major participants in the ongoing debate, and has lectured and written extensively against the arguments of creationists. Prof. Brush is a distinguished scientist and historian of physics and astronomy, and I can personally attest to his being an excellent lecturer as well. The subject of his lecture should be of great interest to members of the Union College community. It will be at a level suitable for a general audience with no need f()r specialized knowledge in history, astronomy or physics. The talk is open to the public, and there is no admission charge. By MARTY HECK The red planet has been a favorite of scientists and others for many years. Before imtense scrutiny by telescopes and landings by proi)es, Mars was the archetypicalplanet for alien life. H.G. Wells launched his invasion from this planet; other authors such as Edgar Rice Burroughs put £riendly life on the planet. In recent decdes exploration of the planet has eliminated perceJ)tions of little green men waiting to conquer the Earth, but there are still many other mysteries surrounding the })lanet. United States ~xploration of the planet mars peaked in the mid-1970's, with the landing of Viking probes. The Viking photo-surveys, alvng with those of the earlier Mariner 9, provided great <detail of pCir- tions of the Martian landscape. America's future plans for exploring our sister planet extend only t() the \Mars Ob- server,\ an orbital exploration craft scheduled for 1992. However, American scien- tists are workillg in conjunction with Soviet scie11tists to choose PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM ··a:uark Confinement- An Introduction\ Professor Janos Polonyi Department of Physics and Center for Theoretical Physics Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA Date: 4/7/88 Thurssday Place: Ste·inmetz Hall 106 Time: 4:45 p.m. Refreshments will be served at 4:30 p.m. a Soviet landing spot. The Soviets are planning extensive landings on Mars, culminating in a manned mission sometime at the beginning of the next century. First in 1994, they will land a robot probe. It is the site of this landing that Soviet and American scientists were discussing at their meeting at Brown University two weeks ago. One site being exarnlned is the site of the Viking 1 lander, Chryse, a flat plain in the northern hemisphere of the planet. Another likely site, Bellas, is a large southern basin in close proximity to highlands that could easily be examined by a roving probe. Both sites have advantages and disad- vantages. The Chryse site would be the safest, but provides limited terrain for study. The Bellas site provides more diversity, but would be more difficult to land in. Martian landings may reveal many things. Studies of ancient rock in eroded river beds could give the geological history of the planet. Lava from volcanoes could give insight to the dynamics of the planet. Samples of the polar ice caps, the only place that water is known to exist on the planet's surface, could yield insight into the possibility of life, albeit very simple, on the planet. A polar landing would be the most difficult. However, there is evidence to suggest that Mars tipped 90 degrees on its polar axis. The north and south pole would then be at the equator. Whatever the final decision, the Soviet exploration and landings will no doubt provide us with a great deal of information and hopefully spur the U.S. into further exploration of Mars. MINERVA LECTURE April Tth 11 Dm College Center Auditorium 'CHARLES BALTA Y'' is a professor of physics at Columbia University.The author of several books and journal articles, his most recent research has been In the areas of elementary particle physics and astro-physics. He was a Sloan fellow from 1966 to 1968. He earned his B.S. from UNION In 1958 and his MA and Ph.D. from Vale University.

ARTS. & FILMS leaps Of Faith By KATit BOYD · Arts Editor Fr<lm now until April 24 the Uni()n's Art Building is host to Adrlenne Klein's exposition \Leaps of.Faith.\ Yetthe.stage flatarcb of Faith, the eluminwn box/burning bush. and the new~paper clippings of sucb miracles ·as the parting of the Red. :Sea are but the inroducti()n to tbe arts program \Leaps of Faith.'' This program will be presented at the Union Campus Art~s Studio on Sunday April 10 at 3:00, admission is free. The program on Sunday will en· compass almost every art ve11ue. Though the sculputure, da11ce, magic, and music presented the artists intend t() exiJlbre, if not explain, leaps of faith both personal and general. Adrienne Klein's art pr~ject resembles a stage set and emphasizes the 'leaps of faith' required to suspend disbelief and our wHlingoess to due so~ when confined to the areana of fiction. Union dance instructor Vera Orlock and two· other dancers will use the medium of dance to examine the leaps of faith necessary- to find a sense of \belonging ... an affirmation of self'' in an often lonely world. The Union . College Gospel Ensemble will. also perf!mn. Their section of the program is titled No Doubt About It. Jan Gilligan and Robert Durlak haye created scenes for \Leaps of Faith\ both funny and though provoking. And, finally Jim Snack a local magician will perform. Faith is a :ne·cessity not only for religion. F'aith is an ab- stract, the belief necessary for truths that may not be 'real'. Every-day we invoke faith and use leaps of faith to bridge the Dancers VeraOr<lock.and Dan Borst} many uncertainties of dailv existence. The arts progr.am \Leaps of Faith\ recogruzes faith as an essential element of our lives. \Leaps of Faith\ also promises to be an exciting, entertaining, and stimulating show. See it on Sunday AprillO &t3:00inthe Arts Studio. Arts Briefs Nott Just Acting At the Egg ... Ballet Hisp~nico of New York will open Espia's Guest Festival on April8, at 8 p.m. Tickets are $7- $12. For reservations or information call443-5111. Friday April 9th at 8:00p.m. the Egg will host the · Modem Jazz Quartet. Tickets are $12, $10, $7, and $5 (for student rush tickets). Call 443-5111 for information. · At Skidmore College .•. Skidmore College presents three new one acts April8-10, and April13-17 at 8 p.m. Call584-5000 Ext. 2347 for more information. At Emma Willard School. .. Carter Brey, cellist and Barabra Weintraub . . . . ' pumst wtll perform in the Friends of Chamber ~usic's fourth concert on April12th at 8 p.m. T1ckets are $9-$6 and may be purchased by calling 273-8135. At Page ·Hall; Albany ... Percussion Orchestra of Capitol Chamber Artist will p_erform on Saturday, April 9th at 8 p.m. Page Hall 1s located on 135 Western Ave, for ticket information call 489-()507. By LEA T:A JACKSON :sets! Lights! Make·UIJ! Sound cl)eck! Curtain! Action! Actors, dancers, singers and musc:ians create aU the magic and panache ()f a show right? Wellll .... maybe after the cur- tain goes up but all those words leading up to\action' represent weeks of work by techies. Sometimes Illl)fe pe()ple · are behind the scenes than in front of them · building and moving sets and prOJlS, hanging and r11nning ligMs, buylng and making 'costwnes, hel]>ing the actors put on rnake·up. Tech work in the Nott is a lot of fun. It is,. in this writer's opini(m, the biggest case of party · while - you • work on campus. PeoJJle who work on Parts Still Available! All Welcome Rehearsal For The Dance Club's Spring Performance · ~Whose Side Are You On?\ Thursday,. April 7th forrn 7-9 pm In the. Exercise Room in the Alumni Gym call K~hia at 382-0359 (in the evening, if you cannot make it) THIS WEEK'S ON CAMPUS MOVIES IU llll.IH .II ll un l>Ef\;IRO IRONS I -_fill- MISSION THE Wll\CHES OF EASlWICK .. the stars provi<le the fun in this campy ac:laptation of the John Updike novel. · Fri, Sat and Sun. at 7~ 9, and 11. THE MISSION ... Robert Deniro and Jeremy lro11s star in this poweliul , . drama. Wed11esday at 7:30 and 10:00. ALL SHOWS ARE $1 TO UNION STUDENTS. ALL SHOWING IN THE COLLEGE CENTER AUD. PLEASE NO FOOD ORDRINK ALLOWED. the set and props always hav:e a good time sharing jokes and stories m: singing. Anyone who has ever worked on a car, .an arts project, or science project knows the sense of pride you get when you complete a good job or get something to 'run like a top.' Techies really feel like an integral part of the show when the lig)lts go up and their door opens perfectly and looks great or their kitchen scene has running water or their paper- mache tree looks real at first glanee. . . Most of the set and props use in the productions in the N ott were made in the worksh()p in the theatre. The revolving stage in Tile Birds, the crates, water cooler, and canes in Godspell, the large red and white blocks in Alice In Wonderland were all created in the house. And then everything on stage must be pa,inted. In addition, dedicated people had to go out and buy costumes and makeup. There were also people backstage during peL\formances helping with makeup, helping actors quick .costume changes, setting out props, running lighting, sound and videO. eqUipment, taking tickets, etc. Anyone can be a carpenter, a painter, a make·up artist- for a day. There are always things to do in order to prepar-e for a production. If you· would be interested in helping out and having fun and have some time free, talk to any Mountebank or come by the Nott Monday, Wednesday or Friday af- ternoons or Tuesday or Thur- sday after :2: 30. WRUC THE NEW -8.97 'The first one for Spring Term '88 and boy, are we excited! The Capital District's leading club band, Mambo-X, has made it to the top spot after only one week, proving that the Schenectady· music sci:m~ isn't completely hopeless. More well-known bands, including, OMD, The Talking Heads, and The Smithereens also make a strong showing our first week back. No. 1 2 3 4 5 e: 7 8 8.97 Artist Mambo- X OMD Talking Heads Mighty.Lemon Drops The Church Smithereens Bears the Other Kids Primitive Pleasure TOP ADDS Album Machines of Eden Best of Naked World wro End Starlish Greenfisn \ Rise & Snine Happy Home Jupiter Remote Oivinyls, Naked Roygun, Miracle Legi<>n ADVENTURE PICKS ·Allee Donut PROGRAMMING NOTES Label Trust A&M Sire Sire Artista Capitol Carb · Boat Citadel WRUC would like to welcome Tam's Tanning Salon as an underwriter for \Elephant Radio\ on Wednesday evenings at 8:00p.m. WRUC will air a special interview with Billy Bragg this evening at 10:00 p.m. on \The vinyl Bar·B-Q. Tune in to win Billy Bragg tickets and his new LP Help ·Save t,he Youth of America .. Uve & Dubious. Catch his show.in Troy on April 13th. !

[ •· r~ CQNCORDIENSIS.,. .. April 7, 1988 Page 17 Trio Dell'Arte To· ·Perform at Union By JIM MACLAUGHLIN Arts Editor When· B~ethoven originally scored the musiC for his Trio in B Flat Major, he wrote it for the clarinet, cello and piano. However, the corp.poser later changed the instrumentation, replacing the clarinet with violin. to widen its appeal and improve sale. That is exactly the manner in which the Trio Dell' Arte will perform the work in its concert h~re at Union College on Saturday, April 9, at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. · The Beethoven piece is a lively work that lends 1tself to spontaneity, and iS enjoyed mostly for its charm; Finishing off the evening . program will be the Dvorak Trio in 3, Op. 90> and the \Durnky\ and the Trioin C, Op. 87 by Brahms. The trio is comprised of violinist Dpnna Tecco, cellist David Szepessy ·and pianist Grace McFarlane~ Contrast is a key element .of the group's perfQrmance, yet Without in- terfering with the delicate mix of musical elements in the works they play. The New York Times described their SOWld as being \ ... both transparent and poetic - a hard .balance to bring off.\ Founded in 1979, the Trio dell'Artehasperformed.in such renowned places as Merkin Hall in New York, and the Banff Festival in Alberta, as well as Boston, Los Angeles, Seattle and Washington, DC. Violinist Tecco will perform on a Stradivarius and Szepessy on a 1720 Gofriller. Tickets are $8 for adults and $4 for students. They are available at the door and all Community Box Offices. ~~~e~s.-7) . ·1· H·. ·E. P .. •0· ·.G U ES Record Review • . By BOB GOLDSTEIN The Pogues \If I Should Fall From Grace With God\ Island Records Irish folk music never sotinded so aggressive 'imtil the Pogues had their way with it. The· eight men play, ap- proximately 20 different in- struments on the ·album, from guitar and drums, to accordian, banjo, and tin whistle.· Shane MacGowan's grainy voice contrasts with the various in- struments to brighten their unmistakably Irish sound, making tbe Pogues quite ac- cessible to audiophiles who would not ordinarily be shaken by Irish folk music. Written largely by MacGowan, the 13 songs on the album include one in- strumental, one medley of traditional Irish .folk songs, and the ever-popular \worms crawl in, worms crawl out\ song. Most of the tunes have a relentless, punk feel, making the boys sound like the \Clancy Brothers\ on acid. Best of all, the Pogues sound like they.'re having a gr.eat time playing their oym style of ethnic,thrash. Spring Lecture Series This spring the Arts Department will play bost to a series of weekly talks by guest artists on campus. The program will be free and open to the public, taking place on Wed· nesday evenings at 8 p.m. in the Arts building. Exact room locations may vary. The schedule of guests is as follows: April 13· Photographer Sally Mann April 20- Watercolorist Sondra Freck.leton · April 27..,. Photographer to be determined May 4- Painter Jack Beal May 18- Painter- Printmaker Daniel Dallman More information can be obtained from the Arts Department between 9 a:m. and 4:30 p.m. at 370-6201. · Crossgates Mall Cinema 1 Vice Versa 2 D.O.A. 3 Johnny Be.Good 4 Beetlejuice · 5 Biloxi Blues 6 Seventh Sign 7 1.8 Again 8 The Fox & The Hound Masquerade 9 Bright Lights, Big City 10 Bad Dreams 11 Good Morning Vietnam Stand & Deliver 12 Three Man & A Baby Fri. & Sat. ONLY 1:10, 4:00,7:15, 9:50 12:10 1:20, 4:10, 7:20, 10:05 12:20 2:00, 4:35, 7:55, 10:25 12:25 1:25,4:15,.7:40,10:15 12:30 1 :35, 4:25, 7:25, 10:10 12:25 1 :45, 4:50, 7:50, 10:30 . 1 :00, 3:55, 6:35, 9:15 12:00, 2:35, 5:05, 7:00 9:05 12:55, 3:40, 6:50, 9:45 12:40, 3:35, 7:05, 9:35 12:35, 3:25, 6:25, 9:25 sat. 6:45 instead of 6:25 .. 9:00 sat. only 12:20, 3:10. 6:15, 8:50 12:35 11:45 11:55 12:15 11:50 12:05 11:20 . • • *If you go to the 6:45 Good Mor.ning Vietnam on Sat nite, you get I 7!!! ART'S & FILMS . ~ .0 ty.s wi ~~ .. ,<.\ ., -IO.Ct 0 Dan Griffin Productions IN ASSOCIATION WITH BuZz Magazine - WRUC - WCDB - WRPI - WVCR PROODL Y PRESENT A MUSICAL Eftll WITH SPECIAL GUESTS: ~:[CHELLE SHOCKED ' At The Troy saviftts Bank t.Ausit Flail Wednesday Aprii1Sth at 7:50 PJ.t Reserted seat TiCkets Available At The Music Hall Box Office (5t8) ~7s~ooaa All Locations Of strawberri~ -• .. - HAHBD ·X Tile ti.4tlsie ShaCk. Central A¥e.. AIIJany 151111 45-4581 The Shack. Ri•er st. troy (518) ~78-1400 to see Stand & DeliVer ~at 9:00 for free. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~·-~--·-~-·-~-·-·-~-·-·--·,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ..

Page 18 CONCORDJENSIS, April 7, 1988 The Coors Veteran's Memorial Scholarship Fund Announces its 1988 competition. Applicants muSI be under 22 years of age as ()! JLJiy t, 1988, have a GPA ot 3.0 or better., have completed * * * their freshman year but not yet begun their senior year, and be a dependent of ~.-;<'~~ an Honorably Discharged American n-qr :\\'~veteran, or a dependent of Actille Dul)', Guard or Reserve military personal. Award amounts mal( vary b~:~t a minimum of 100 scholarships with a maximum val - ue of $5,000 will be awarded. Application deadline is July 1., 1988. For more information and applications contact the · Financial Aid Office, 2nd Floor, Becker Castello·s R~staurant Eat in or toke out 10% discount with Union College LD. THE BEST IN IT ALlAN & GREEK FOOD Pizza, Calzones, Pasta, Veal Souvlaki, Gyros, Wine and. Beer ' Veal Parmesan with spaghetti and salad $8.50 $4.95 Baked lasagna with cheese and salad Castello's Pizza & Restaurant 1487 State St., Schenectady ·wm Deliver 374-05.81 *Wash,· Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men ~-~a~~ing -~ ~-----.--~ 1 1st Visit Free Spec1al Special Sculptured Nails & Tips Special I Tanm_ng Tanning . Weekly 50 Visits 100 Visits $24.95 6 Visits $?S.OO $6.95 $49.95 with Unioni.D. reg. 35.oo '---------' '---- .....__ __ __, Walk-Ins We/caine'· *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. 1307 Nott St. 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady Big ~·stop 370-4630 Rath~ellor betw$(fh ·12-3'.~0 pm Monday~Fridoy ririif,,,r4i!)ilfe-F<Wif;h- the mo~J~Stin sJftd -~·,. . e . ':: • • • · K' ~~\i* JHE~,; · · , .. ,, .. ,,~:·',\1\., ,G.Q;O;o:~;WOR- SPAA STUDENTS SOMETHING NEW IS HAPPENlNG! The April 1988 Union CoJ!Iege Bloodmobiles will be held in the brand new Self-Contained Unit, \Blood Vessel,\ which will be parked in front of the Campus Center fot donor convenience. Each day's bloodmobile wi.U be sponson!d by a fraternity or sorority. The following fraternities have agreed to sponsor th.e April bloodmobiles: Wednesday, April20, 1988 Sponsored by SIGMA CHI Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. GOAL: 60 Units of blood For appointment call Vice Pres. Brad Close tel. 386-4153 or AmericanRedCross, tel. 393-3606 Thursday, April21, 1988 GOAL: 60 units of blood Sponsored by PHI GAMMA DELTA Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. For appointment call President Perry Levy, tel. 386-4153 or American Red Cross, tel. 393-3606 Friday, April22, 'i988· GOAL: 60 . Sponsored by PSI UPSILON unitsofblood Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. For appointment call P:Fe~ident ChuckMcGavern; tel. 386-4305 or American Red Cross, tel. 393- 3606 GUARANTEED FINANCI:NG t . QUALIFIED BUYE MINIMAL FROM FORD TO ASSIST WITH YOUR PURCIIASE!*, :DOWN· PAYMENT. GIVE YOURSELF A NEW FORD :fOR GRADUATION. YOU WORKED HllRD, YOU DESERVE IT! *With Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DETAILS: 199 CENlRAL AVE. ALBAnY, NY 122q& 489-5414 :· .. II • Je~ noun~ COIDIJ are 1 need, a chic: .to: J terin~ resid Rens rang. a cad aree Ap C!lllil (518) dead Tb Prof offei

Page 18 CONCORDIENSlS~ April 7, 1988 The Coors Ve'ieran'll Memorial Scholarship Fund Announces its 198B competition. Appltcants \11USt be undsr 22 years of age as Q( July 1, 1988, have a GP A of 3.0 or better. nave completed * the1r freshman year but not yet begun * * their semor year, ar:~d be a depsndent of tat:::: an Honorably D1scharged Amencan l• --~~~~,·~-:\'\ ;'\':''!<1'!-' veteran, or a dependent of Achve Duty. 111111 Guard or Reserve military personal. 1988 Award amounts may vary but a mimmum of 100 scholarshipS with a max1mum val - ue of $5,000 will be awarded. Application deadline is July 1, 1988. For more infonnation and applications contact the Financial Aid Office, 2nd Floor, Boeker Hall. Castello·s Restaurant Eat in or take out 10% discount with Union College I.D. THE BEST IN ITALIAN & GREEK FOOD Pizzo, Calzones, Pasta, Veal Souvlaki. Gyros, Wine and Beer Veal Parmesan with spaghetti and salad $8.50 Ba~ed lasagna with cheese and salad $4.95 Castello ·s Pizza & Restaurant 1487 State St., Schenectady 'Will Deliver 3 7 4-0581 . *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men Tanning Tanning Tanning Sculptured Special 1st Visit Free Special Spec1al Nails & Tips Weekly 50 Visits 100 Visits $24.95 6 Visits $75.00 $6.95 $49.95 reg. 35. 00 with Union 1.0 .. .._ .. Walk-Ins welcome· *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. 1 307 Nott St. 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady 370-4630 To all Union College Students who volunteer their valuabl• time to be a Big Brother-Big S,isfer: we at the Djning Services Salute Youl. To show our support for your effort, the Rathskeller is offering a free meal for your Jittle brother or sister. lf you are a Big Brother-Big Sister, stop by the Rathskeller between 12-3:30 pm Monday-Frlday and register with the manqgE?r and ... KEEP UP THE GOOD ·,WORKI STUDENTS for POLITICAL AWARENESS and ACTIVISM invites you to an open . General Meeting WEDNESDAY 4/13/88 9PM COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM ~----,---------------------------~ SOMETHING NEW IS HAPPENING! The A.pril 1988 Union College Bloodmobiles will be held in the brand new Self-Contained Unit, \Blood Vessel,\ which will be parked in front of the Campus Center for donor convemence. Each day's bloodmobile will be sponsored by a fraternity or sorority. The following fraternities have agreed to sponsor the April bLoodmobiles: Wednesday, April20, 1988 GOAL: 60 Sponsored by SIGMA CHI Units of blood Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. For appointment call Vice Pres. Brad Close tel. 386-4153 or American Red Cross, teL 393-3606 Thursday, April 21, 1988 GOAL: 60 units of blood Sponsored by PHI GAMMA DELTA Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. For appointment call President Perry Levy, tet 386-4153 or American Red Cross, tel. 393-3606 Friday, April 22, 1988 GOAL: 60 Sponsored by PSI UPSILON units of blood Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. For appointment call President Chuck McGavern, teL 386-4305 or American Red Cross, tel. 393- 3606 GUARANTEED NANCING t QUALIFIED BUYERS!~* FROM FORD TO MINIMAL ASSIST WITH YOUR DOWN PAYMENT. GIVE YOURSELF A NEW FORD FOR GRADUATION~ YOU WORKED HARD, YOU DESERVE IT! *With Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DETAilS: 799 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, NY 12206 489-5414 . DUTO~~~~~IGHT will now be served Sat & Sun. Evenings 5:00-7:30 pm A tun course meal s~rvi:ld by our talented waitstaff, . allfo.r just a m~afcard punch, M'a'ke reservations with meal card at Dutch Hollow Restaurant by 3:00 on the previous Thursday. 19 rri&al plan- 2/rno. t+ meat plafl.-1!mo. H) ~al pla.n--1 tmo. Choice of Entree: cnorooof Vegetable: Assonett Dutchman's M,enu Cream of Mu&hroom soup Chilled Mixed Fruit Cup Garden Greens Mixed Salad with Hou~e Dress;lng Rib Eye St&ak Baked HaddocK Oreganato Bat<ed Stuffed Shrimp Cheese Tortellini with Marinara Sauce Baked Potato or Rice Piedmontese Green Beans Almondine Assorted Rolls & Butter DQSert: Assorted Cakes ()r Ice Cream Choice of Beverage: Coffee, Tea or Soda Je nour com are neec a chi to: terin resi1 Ren ran! aca1 are AJ call (518 de a Tl Pro offe

CONCORDJENSlS, .April 7, 1988 Page 19 popular game ''Pictionary. '' :r.eturning to college to purs11e· a degree program. To be eligible the . applicant must-;be a Schenectady · County · resident .resuming un- dergraduate or graduate studies that ha~e been interrupted. The need for financial assistance will be .given strong consil:lerati:on. · interest meeting tonight, April 7, Phone call refundable. (602) 838- . 8:00p.m., rm. 203 C1>llege Center .. · 8835ex:t. 7090. Overnight Retreat.-.5 p.m. . No experience necessary. Friday, April 15 until 5 p.m .• Earn $50-100/day marketing :. credit cards to students on your ; campus. Work full time or part time. Call1..S00-932-Q528. Jewish ·Family Services an- nounces its annual scholarship competttion for 1988..a9 .. Awards are based primarily on financial need, as well as scholastic achievement. Eligibility is limited to: Jewish students who are· en- tering or attending college and are , residents of either Albany or Rensselaer Counties. Scholarships range from $200 to $1000 for the academic year, and past recipients, are encouragedto re-apply. · Applications may be obtained by calling Jewish Family Services at (518) 482-8856. . Application deadline is May 20, 1988. Applications are avaHable in the Financial Aid Office, second .floor Becker Hall. Deadline is Aprill5, 1988. . Saturday, April16 at 5 p.m. at St. Anthony-on-Hudson, Rensselaer. The theme is ''The Many Paths to Prayer.\ Cost is $5 when you . register withSr. Joan. Tutoring Program-Union College .students can be used' in the · following are.as at St. John the Visit Glendale Nursing Home- . Evangelist Sehool: Kindergarten, Saturday, April 9 any student who Compuer Math &. Library Aides as is interested in visiting well as tutoring Math & Reading <>n parishioners of St. John the a one to one. Please contact Lisa Evangelist at Glendale Nursi.n.g Mercugliano, 386-6968. Home, Scotia, please meet Sr. -Folk. Group-Meets Sunday Joan at The College Center at 2 • evenings with Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. · · p.m. in St. John the Evangelist · . Pictionary-Monday, AprU 11 at 7 The Schenectady Business and ·p.m. in 410 of College Center at 7 Professional Women's Club, Inc. is p.m. all are invited to join the offering scholarships for women ·Newman Club .in playing the · Church to prepare for 7:30 p.m. · Liturgy. New members are always welcome. Sailors bave .more fun! General ' . ?art-time summer jobs. Men's Summer jobs $8-10/hr. or •. locker house Bartenders - Mohawk cozmriission. Advertising sales, No • Golf Club Corner of Halltown & experience necessary. We will Unian. Call 374-9121 between 9 & 3 train. Work lo~ally. ~ar recorn- and ask for Wayne Cable, Locker mended. Call BtU DavLs (800) 344- , House Manager 6766 for details and ap- · ' plication.Metro Marketing Group, • Need student to do yard work, Ltd. . mowing, tree trimming, etc. • Location Rexford. Please contact Moving? $30/hr. f1>r small scale , . 39~-044:7. regional moves. Call VST Movers. . 462-0748. Hiring! Federal government· jobs in your area and' overseas.: Many immediate openings without. waiting list or test. .$15 - 68,000. • Students interested in telemarketing for Spencer's ~~ Wfrh~ Business Institute, 200 State Street - 1 block from bus station - Hrs. M- Tllurs. 5:30-8:30 p.m. or 6-9 p.m. Full time or part time during those hours. Please contact Cathy at 734- 7619 from 3:30 - 8:30 p.m. Mon. - Thurs.- $5.00/hr. plus bonus. Student who lives locally to do restaurant duties. For further info call 393-o707 and ask for Antoinette Calucci at the Carlton Restaurant, Beclter Street. TOP 10 THINGS WE DID OVER SPRING BREAK 10. Sat around with Fritos and Kogl Aid and talked about Nietzsche 9. Found qut O.J. Simpson really does run. through airports 8. Got six fillings and a new perm . 7. Chased fal;lulqu~ ba,bes at th,e local K-'Mart . 6. Explained to the parents that an active social life 1s more importanJ than a grade point average. 5. S~mg th~ Sfar Spangled Banner at Street fights 4. Made obscene gestures behind Julie Brown on MTV coverage of \Live from Daytona Beach.\ 3, Figured out what S.D.T .. reail~ stands for 2. Ran nude through the Vatican. 1. Watched \teen week\ on Wheel of Fortune ~~ CoLl£0~ seNtO\{a · srr11f'l6 ~RcfJND vvtltf NoTHI/b TO Do? we NeeD fo R0LLY. ~·. )' B9ginning duck BEYOND QUACK \ Vii fe GO~NG To N£6/ UGtlleR fLUID roo. Student Off Campus Positions Student needed to babysit 2 children age 1 and 4, Mon. & Thurs. morning 8 to 12. Close to college. $3.1)0 per hour. Contact Joanne at 372-8314. Housesitter wanted. Job includes child sitting for 10 and 14 year old boys. Apri12 thru 9. Boys will be at school during normal ·dasstj.me hours. Graduate student preferred. Will consider mature · undergraduate student. $35.00 a day. Contact: Mary Ann Teed at 393-8149. Lost: Gold wrist bracelet. Gone since beginning of last term. Reward. Contact x4131, Dutch Colonial - for sale by owner. 1092 Brierwood Blvd. 4 bedroom llh bath. Fireplace, formal screened porch, family room, brick patio, beautiful crystal chandelier w/wooden valances and cr(}wnmoldings in dining room. Many amenities. $13(),000. Walking distance to Union. Please call 377- 0006. A very special home! ·German film \'THE BOAT IS 'rULL\ (1981) with Tina Engle, Kurt Bois, Reate Steiger, Mathias Ganadinger Monday April11 s:oo pm cc 4()6 Proctor's Theater Tickets for the followii1g shows will be available inthe College Center Information booth: April21 May 5 May13 South Pacific Momix: Canadian Brass· 8pm 8pm 8pm

CONCORDIENSJSt April 7, 1988 Page 19 ···\rr::?'r:t;;. 17 .1(W.·p .. ,u c ·- ... ~•ut·-l:'t · ·v . :· :·:< .''::: ~- . . , . ··: .. ,:. :':... . . : . . . . ' : =\;pJ· ;: ... : : ,· .. ·· .. :·· . ... ':• 0'711S··· .:: -=:·.: ~ LV '- . ·:·:. returaing to college to purs11e a degree program. To be eligible the applicant must be a Schenectady County resident resuming un· dergraduate or graduate studies that have been interrupted. The need for financial assistance will be given strong consideration. popular game '' Pictionary. ·' Overnight Retreat-5 p.m. interest meeting tonight, April 7. Phone call refundable. t602l 838- 8:00p.m .• rm. 203 College Center. 8885 ext. 7090. Jewish Family Services an- nounces its artnual scholarship competition for 1988-89. Awards are based primarily on financial need, as well as scholastic achievemeat. Eligibility is limited to: J.ewish students who are en- tering or attending college and are residents of either Alhany or Rensselaer Counties. Scholarships range from $200 to $1000 for the academic year, and past recipients are encouraged to re-apply. Applications may be obtained by calling Jewish Family Services at ( 518) 482-8856. Application deadline is May 20, 1988. The Schenectady Business and Professional W~men's Club, Inc. is offering scholarships for women Applications are available in the Financial Aid Office, second floor Becker Hall. Deadline is April 15, 1988. Visit Glendale Nursing Home- Saturday, April 9 any student who is interested in visiting parishieners of St. John the Evangelist at Glendale Nursing Home, Scotia, please meet Sr. Joan at The College Center at 2 p.m. Pidionary-Monday, Aprilll at 7 p.m. in 410 of College Center at 7 p.m. all are invited to join the Newman Club in playing the TOP 10 THINGS WE DID OVER SPRIN~G BREAK 10. Sat around with Fritos and Kool Aid and talked about Nietzsche 9. Found out O.J. Simpson really does run through airports 8. Got six fillings and a new perm 7. Chased fabulous babes at the local K-Mart 6. Explained to the parents that an active social life is more important than a grade point average. 5. Sang the Star Spangled Banner at Street fights 4. Made obscene gestures behind Julie Brown on MTV coverage of \Live from Daytona Beach.\ 3. Figured out what S.D.T. really stands for 2. Ran nude through the Vatican 1. Watched \teen week\ on Wheel of Fortune \N\-\\1\ CoU.eb~ seNtD{B · srrntJb ~ftJJND w1rri NoJHfJ\b 76 Do? we NeeD To R0LLY. - &'-'\\ ..---. ) Friday, April 15 until 5 p.m. Saturday, Aprill6 at 5 p.m. at St. Anthony-on-Hudson, Rensselaer. The theme is \The Many Paths to Prayer.\ Cost is $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. Tutoring Program-Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kindergarten, Compuer Math & Library Aides as well as tutoring Math & Reading on a one to one. Pleas-e contact Lisa Mercugiiano, 386-6958. Folk Group-Meets Sllilday evenings with Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in St. Johll the Evangelist Church to prepare for 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members are always welcome. Sailors have more fun! General No experience necessary. Summer jobs $8~10/hr. or conunission. Advertising sales. No experience necessary. We will train. Work locaHy. Car recom- mended. Call Bill Davis (800) 344- 6766 for details and ap- plication.Metro Markebng Group, Ltd. Moving? $30/hr. for small scale regional moves. Call VST Movers. 462..()748. Hiring! Federal government jobs in your area and overseas. Many immediate openings without waiting list or test. $15 - 68,00(). aeginning duck BEYOND (( .. QUACK wire ED~NG to N£fV UG\i1eR WJID roo. I I AND CW\1\?cAL- i fCR ·mrr ~- \ ( Eara $50-100/day marketing credit cards to students on your campus. Work full time or part time. Calll-80()-932-0528. Part-time swnmer jobs. Men's locker house Bartenders - Mohawk Golf Club, Corner of Balltown & Union. Call 37<1-9121 between 9 & 3 and ask for Wayne Cable, Locker House Manager. Need student to do yard work, mowing, tree trimming, etc. Location Rexford. Please contact 399-0447. Students interested in teletnarketing for Spencer's Business Institute, 200 State Street - 1 block from bus station- Hrs. M- Thurs. 5:30-8:30p.m. or6 -9p.m. Full time or part time during those hours. Please contact Cathy at 734- 7619 from 3:3()- 8:30p.m. Mon. - Thm·s. - $5.00/hr. plus bonus. Student wh() lives locally to do restaurant duties. For further info call393..Q707 and ask for Antoinette Calucci at the Carlton Restaurant, Becker Street. Student Off Campus Positions Student needed to babysit 2 children age 1 and 4, Mon. & Thurs. morning 8 to 12. Close to college. $3.50 per ho11r. Contact Joanne at 372-8314. Housesitter wanted. Job includes child sitting for 10 and 14 year old boys. April2 thru 9. Boys will be at school during normal · classtime hours. Graduate student preferred. Will consider mature undergraduate student. $35.00 a day. Contact: Mary Ann Teed at 393-8149. Lost: Gold wrist bracelet. Gone since beginning of last term. Reward. Contact x413l, Dutch Colonial - for sale by owner. 1092 Brierwood Blvd. 4 bedroom 1 1 12 bath. Fireplace, formal screened porch, family room, brick patio, beautiful crystal chandelier w/wooden valances and crownmoldings in dining room. Many amenities. $130,000. Walking distance to Union. Please call 377- 0006. A very special home! German Film \THE BOAT IS FULL\ ( 1981) with Tina Engle, Kurt Bois, Reate Steiger, Mathias Ganadinger Monday April 11 8:00 pm CC 406 Proctor's Theater Tickets for the followiilQ shows will be available inthe College Center Information booth: April21 South Pacific Bpm May 5 Momlx Spm Ly13 Canadian Brass· 8pm ticket booth

Page 20 Lina, Break out the ruler bab~t Postage rates go up this week. Jill, IAJve~ The Mailman My best friend Antoinette (the rnaid) offers me a job at the Pl81za Caribedelivering towels- CONCORDIEUSIS, April 7, 1'988 No need for s1.111 protection.! We want to be Vr'Orshippers of· Zinc I Oxide! · . Lina and Cathy, · Dearests- Where's the black bag and . I love you very much .. FL'-s }()SS, where's tile pink comb? Good thing my gain. Montreal, 'here we come- we're or~anized! Love, Jill Forever and !llways, Me Dirt ball- Put some sock:s on! ,Love, your Female!R;ihkRats · Heychickies, . favorite roomie . . \Get :!)syehed ~· dirty dancin's Thanks for . understanding . · · · comin\ (} 11 ess who! Give up _ awesome roomies you are. N~ N . Mr. Smooth You are the fondu because I am fondofyou. . Love, Pussycat 'Patricks• and K thanks! luv S112e . Sta~ tralning, the DG Olymics are COming! Bertha: 5284796 6477 968 5687 .. 52766'7, 3229'7, l>26:3T . 2663, 246265283-4 226~B 9248 !' 5683 968, Scarface, Killer,. ~orget the rest, go for 73872. (Wanda's delivery service) Jill and I understand the peeling Budwetser! Love, Little Twerp! . Tilt- Dino a11d:.Pebbles: Remember t<O I part ... but what's underneath the drop your shirts and check cmat i 20th layer? Stupe, J)isco & GaRg _ You look · Hang loose and aloha, what'llit be what-IF ANY'l'HING-is under I eleven. It's the bow inmy hair. Mr. · · .. moose or ski machine -.stay a:vvay those sexy grass skirts. Love, the: ' Congrats to Jelly & Logie on your · Pelvic 1hr1lst (our fool by the pool) from high bumbers- Island Hopper .. \captainship.\ To~orr()W the: rules change, so 1 luvSuze Mom dectde. Bupkiss at the casino. Augustus· Have you seen your S()n: I --------- Thanksatot. -Tiiiny Wiiiny . Wanted: 2 girls with lets of hair. Andrew 'Mailman' Miller You're! awesome. I guess size doesn't matter! I lnve you. Hi Ben! Hope you had a happy birthday, a!llda great week. M- Kirsten- Glad to have you back. New how abouttha.tdinner? Lisa S - I decide that seven is a couple. M&C . Jen !lnd .Sue-We still love you and miss.}\'oUalotllVI&G · Stup- Imissyou. SE Phil Caesar and his estranged \WitE ' To the girl with the hottest (1 mean Management .of C()co's inCa!lcun Caesar Salad hanging around'? . reddest)· legs and feet in Cancun- So yuh: would like to press eharges. Henesalld Toad- Word has it. he tossed her fon: ~· · what happenedto you? I still love Happy- 2 1stbirthday! Wawawawemissyou! M&C more magnetic tape. W. Keene you. Soviet Little Sis, Glad bag Don't forget to calL Dad. If yoa try Hap:py birthday, Robin. Yo Pa: Rumor has it that a nnan called Hercules found Did.o 1 s lost \1\ and became the hero Hercules. How's that for myth? -R, L, C :and 0 Cindy-Lou & Leather: Ri~llie Cunningham is the supe['ior, spiritllal, synthetic, sexwally satifying substitute. -Mary B:.eth Hey Deero-Gone to town to blow any bucks lately? Or are youg·dirlg stag these days? -Doe-o Joe - Do you have any -fake relatives who think that they- are tall? Fred Rob, 1li sweetie, welcome bal!k to the U.S.A. It's time we got back into party mode. Come by for a visit sometime. The girl you used to know. Robby D., Miracles do happen. You are back from Israel -wlill no strings attached. Let's make this a very good spring. A good friend. Rob D. Welmme back! I have heard through the grapevine that youaresinglenow. You don't know me yet, but yDu will soon.. A Freshman Fan. I'll buff and I'll puff and I'll b1rn your room down. 6 clueless ones in Cancun - IJext time sunblock600000000- LittleLina Sara, Get out from behind the bar! We're not at Chi Psi. Love, Jill amd Lina If you want to work on next year's Freshman Rec()rd, leave 3'0ur name, phone number an!li box nwnber in box.: 1182. Jill Lopez, Hooking up with the loc.als - hmmm Squirt Dina, You win 'Queen of the Limbo' and subtle slime award · wllo wins first prize? _ Lina Litvack, Don't you missCa!IIctm'?- The walls of the hotel room! 00\l~.Jill Mole dog, I'm psyched! I.ove,Jill cathy and Little Jill (my :favorite roomies), We didn't go to Cancun, 'IWe were at Plaza Caribe Rm. 2ltl .. ~still I bad.an awesome time! In.termatinal Operator .anyone? Dlez Mfnuwa-lt's very difficult! ! Lauren hard enough you m.ay get tile car. Dirt, Where ~re all the men with Otherwise you may have to visit It's 2:30 a.rn., sorry Chris and fuzzydkewhenyouneedthem? · me and Sam inNJ. Tri Delta Pledge Class 1988, We ·love you. M& C Dina, You're the best. I love ya! Dan! See ya! It's been Ra11dom. · Tilt Love. Twerp Big :Bro. An ad hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Karl Zimmerman, assistant . p~o1essor of mathematics. Members of the college community who have knowledge of Professor Ztmmerman's teaching, rese~rch or college service activities are encouraged tocontribute either written or oral testimony to any committe member. They are Professors O_avid Peak, Physics; Micllael Frohlich, Biology; Brenda Wineapple, English; and William Zwicker~ Mathematics. . BLOOM COUNTY 1H~f<r3'S A COIIIPI-WY fN ftfJfllPA 1HflT WfU. FI.€£Z€~111(y WK per. \ wHffTfl \ 0/f, ·~Y 1H~ f3Y, .. POKrNOY KICK€() OFf tA5r N/t!JHT, 50 ~~~~HAP HIM fl?£€~e-Pt?IIJP ~riP f(j( ()(1/ me MIIN1lfL.. I 7HIIT W115 liMe-AN ANP 1/fa/&/f!l.£55 1HINP/ YOtl Ilia MfiKINfJ Ml T11fNK PORTNOY HIIP fJeF!N f~-PK/fJP.,. I ~----------------~ 1fifYU. COfVI€3 OV£R fii{.(J 111K£ HIM n~YfOr< PR.Ote561N& fiFJe:Kife C(()A/(,5. \ &00{} HffAVffN5. \ M€~N, 1}{0f/6f(f(.£6tf l1NP IMMOKI/t.. N!tff lt?efl ... YOV CAN p(ff f/110 (JPON mt MffNTel FOr<. f:mf(N/TY. \ .,8fff WHfiT 50!<1 OF MOr<flt~ 5ff()()/.P A f~UtJW eJ<P~cr ovr or A PriMB, 5HoKr PeK50N / \. Me

Page 20 Lina, Break out the ruler babe! Postage rates go up this week. Jill, Love, The Mailman My best friend Antoinette (the maid) offers me a job at the Plaza Caribe delivering towels- nino and Pebbles: Remember to drop your shirts and check out what-IF ANYTHING-is Ullder those sexy grass skirts. Love, the Island H()pper Augustus - Have you seen your son Phil Caesar and his estranged wife Caesar Salad hanging around? Word has it he tossed her for a more magnetic tape. W. Keene Yo Pa: Ru..\llor has it that a man called Hercules found Dido's lost \I\ and became the hero Hercales. How's that for myth? -R, L, C and 0 Cindy-Lou & Leather: Richie Cunningham is the superior, spiritual, synthetic, sexually satifying substitute. -Mary Beth Hey Deero-Gone to town to blow any bucks lately? Or are you going stag these days? -Doe-o Joe - Do you have any fake relatives who think that they are tall? Fred Rob, Hi sweetie, welcome 'oack to the U.S.A. It's time we got back into party mode. Come by for a visit sometime. The girl you used to know. Robby D., Miracles do happen. You are back from Israe] with no strings attached. Let's make this a very good spring. A good friend. Rob D. Welcome back! I have heard through the grapevine that you are single now. You d~n 't know me yet, but you will S()on. A Freshman Fan. I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll burn your room down. 6 clutJless ones in Cancun - next time sun block 6(}()()()()()()0- Little Lina Sara, Get out from behind the bar! We're not at Chi Psi. Love, Jill and Lina If you want to work on next year's Freshman Record, leave your name, phone nwnber and box number in box 1182. Jill Lopez, Hooking up with the locals - hmmrn Squirt Dina, You win 'Queen of the Limbo' and subtle slime award - wbo wins first prize? Lina Litvack, Don't you missCancun? - The walls of the hotel r~om! Love, Jill Mole dog, I'm psyched! Love, Jill Cathy and Little Jill (:my favorite roomies), We didn't go toCancun, we were at Plaza Caribe Rm. 210 ... still I hadan awesome time! Internatinal OperatGr anyone? DieE M.tnutos- it's very difficult 1 ! CONCORDIENSIS, April 7, 1988 No need for sun .protection! 'W·e want to be wershippers of Zinc Oxide! Dirtball- Put some socks on! Love, y()llr favorite roomie Mr. Smooth You are the fondu because I ~rn fond of you. Love, P1.1S.sy-c:at Scarface, Jill and I understand the peeling, part ... but what's underne.at:h the 20th layer? Congrats to Jelly & Logie on yo11r \captainship.\ W'lc.m ---------------- To the girl with the hottest (! ne;an reddest) legs and feet tn Cancll!ll- what happened to you? I still Jove you. Gl~db.ag Dirt, It's 2:30 a.m., sorry Chris a.nd Dan! See ya! It's been Ran<iDJrl. Love, '1'\.'\'erp Lina and Cathy, Where' s the black bag and where's the pink comb? Goad thing we're organized! Love, Jill Female Rink Rats, \Get psyched - dirty dancin's comin\ Guess who! Give up - 'Patrick S'' Start training, the DG Olymies are coming! Killer,. Forget the rest, go for Budwetser! Love, Little Twerp! Stupe, Disco & Gang - You look eleven. It's the bow in my hair. Mr. Pelvic Thrust (our fool by the pool) Tomorrow the rules change, so I decide. Bupkiss at the casino. Thanks a lot. - Tiiiny Wiiiny Soyuh: Happy 21st birthday! Soviet Lauren Where are all the men with fuzzydice when you need them~ Tilt . Dearests- I love yeu very much. FL's loss my gain. Montreal, here we come -' Forever and always, Me Hey chickies, Thanks for understanding - awesome roomies you are. N, N and K thanks! luv Suze Bertha: 5284796 6477 968 5687. 52766'7, 8229'7, 5263T 2663, 246265283-4 226'8 9248! 5683 968, 73872. (Wanda's de1i:very service) · Tilt- Hang loose and aloha, what'll it be -moose or ski machine -stay away from high bumbers- luv Suze Wanted: 2 girls with lots of hair. Management of Coco's inC ancun would like to press charges. Little Sis, Don't forget to call Dad. If you try hard enough you may get the car. Otherwise you may have to visit me and Sam in NJ. Big Bro. Andrew 'Mailman' Miner You're awesome. I guess size doesn't matter! I love you. Hi Ben! Hope you had a happy bkthday, and a great week. M- Kirsten- Glad to have you back. Now how a bout that dinner? Lisa S - I decide that seven is a couple. M&C Jen and Sue-We still love you and miss y0u a lot! M & C Stu p- I miss you. SE Henes and Toad- Wawawa we miss you! M & C Happy birthday, Robin. Tri Delta Pledge Class 1988, We love you. M & C Dina, You're the best. I love ya! Me An ad hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Karl Zimmerman, assistant professor of mathematics. Members of the college community who have knowledge of Professor Zimmerman's tea<CilLng, research or college service activities are encouraged tocontribute either written or oral tesiimony to any committe member. They are Professors David Peak, Physics; Michael Frohlich, Biology; Brenda Wineapple, English; and William Zwicker, Mathematics. BLOOM ~OUNTY mef?t'S 11 COMPANY fN ftf}RIPA 171/IT WIU. ff(ffZIS -flf<Y Y()(JR PffT. v!HMr! \ \ 011. BY me BY. .. PO!lflf<J'f' KtCKttl? oFF t.Asr ~IG-Jft, 5o we Hfll? Ht/'11 FKf3eZe-I?Rfef? fiNP P(ff ON me Mflttrr:: t-. . I 711/!T WA5 11 Mffltt liN!? 1H(J(Jomt.e5o THIN& YO(J Ilia ~MI<~8 Me THINK flOrmiOY /fliP ~eN fRt?Ete-Jllilt:f.fl;,. I ~--------------~ meY'U.- coMe OVER fiNP f!IK€ HIM AWAY fOP. f'!<.OCt5SIN& AfTER He CR.OilKS. /2: &OOP HOIV€NJ. \ Me:AN, 77fO()&fflU3:f:f IINi? fMMOf?/1(. . by Berke Breathed ~----------------~ N!Ct? we!J ... YO(J CIIN P(Jf FIPO 1/P ON TH~ MP.rvret- FOK eTetrNfTY. \ Hfl/ f!A _I ~n-n\.-..1w. WHRT il f{(J~! 1HPPFT/ --tf J 6 .,13<ff Wlff/T Xf<T Or IYJ(}I(flt5 5H(J(Jt.f1 11 F~uow expecr Our Of II PUMB, 5H(}f<r PER50N / \ mANP If 1?1~ WO!?€ I WilKe .. t.O!(fJ, fiJf( CRYIN' O(Jr t.O(JP,,. rRie:NJ?ff Cf/N If€ 5VCH fl Ml'tt/1 Bt.£55/N&. . '· ~ .. I fiRfiCK mmv: MR. /..8. STf/88lff<5, Pr<e5faNT OF THe ''f/trl€K/C!lN NON- Tlltt-. PeK50N5 Pf?OTeC170N t.eliGtJe. \ 'i' ,,

size M- how is a you SE We Me • 4-· ~ • ' -~ . '•' CO'NCORDIENSIS, April 7 '· _1988 Call for Entries Call for Entries for the 10th Annual Photography .Regional at the Albany CentEH Galleries. Thi.s year's juro[ is internation - ally renowned photo - · · grapher Ralph Gibson. Open to photographers living Within 100 miles .of the Capital Distrist. Dead - line for entry is May 8. Details en entry proced · · · ure's available at the Albany Center Galleries, af the corner of Chapel and Monroe Street in downtown Albany or by calling the Gallery at 51;8-462-4775. 1he exhibition, cospon- . son:id by Rennsselaer · County . Council for the · Arts, Will' open May 22 and run through June 10. ''Mom says the . house just istit the saine without me, even though its a lot cleaner.'' Educational Studies Program Student Information Meetings :. Tuesday, April 26th 7:00pm College Center Room 410 Union College students who are considering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in English, modem or classic languages, · mathematics, science (biology, chemistry, earth . science, physics or general science) or social studies should attend. Information will be given regarding the undergraduate~ graduate, and five-year combined degree programs which will begin at ·• Union next f:atl. Just because your Mom is faraway, doesn't mean you can't be close. You <;:an still share the love and laughter on AT&T Long Distance Service. -Itcosts less. than you thinktohear that she likes the peace and quiet, but she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a call. You can clean your room later. Reach out and touch someone~ lJ>. ATa.T· The right choice. I Page 21 Next fall, THE WRITING CENTER will need some new Tutors who are: LitERATe IMAGINATIVE RELIABLE SENSIBLE FLEXIBLE 'TACTFUL SUPPORTIVE PATIENT FRIENDLY & NICE Does that describe YOU? Ask for an application at THE WRITING CENTER or from Prof. Nelson in Humanities 210. PHARMACISTS Full time pharmacist needed in Pawling, New York. Current state license required. Computerized pharmacy, attractive salary, excellent benefits. Call for interview Monday-Friday 9 am - 4:30 pm. MR. JOHN FAY PHARMACY SUPERVISOR 914.:855-.1322 OR 201-794-2039 GRAND UNION Equal Opportunity Employer / ,.· ••

size LPPY I M- how is a tl l&C :i I. ., \ you i J j l SE ! : ,., v , We Me MODERN CANGtJAGES AND ~THE GERMAN CLUB · Sprin.g Term GERMAN FILM SERIES AU films. iOt. German cc with English subtitles &:QO p.m .. M~;.~~!.· . :l);. . ··~' ·(<' .<; ·. Videci · ~ ' ' . . . , drre~red by M:nkmt\ lmllnof, with Tut'a Ehjt.\l.ft.·Cuttlloi$,···~me· Ste:ig.er,oM;'Il;tthias Gna4ing~r). This is .ii lhi!ilntlbg· ~tuey (jf' :a: Jj!Oilp of t¢fugees who att$;pt. ·to {l$1iJaW-,P9XI'l Nll:zi~eml#l\)l.by:·.see.~Wtg ~sylutn w ~~~r\and. · Sin® t$~tllr:s ~tiill\d a .b~tler cb.~>:.~ ~han · ~~etlwr str<~r~:&~S~ !JI~ little ~d; tcl¢~ 1JJ Jli'>tfe as.!,\ . ... ... 's'Qcin the villa~ m :<Wl*Mi t!iey' ~re btd~g W~es. aware. of tbei\r true identiti~ai¥Ji1\iijrd•*ion· sll»m~•i.mlninenti Ai~®ntrovers.ial. flhn ,~t . . . . Jif#i Th•Boot I$ .Fvll . Witt®wem!IO S~ent c9U1tt.li'' \l':A'if 4eclat¢d \\ full ·· . . .. . . t'ihltose~r.ha :Sooghtf~UQm fol';vbettet life ls ~1¢red•W1 depth. <l'fid etmlp;mimt, c~~ a fikn th:at • will stily Witli )'i)d(\\ag a~tit ill bV.er, Monday.Apri125: . . .. · .... ·. . .. . . FUm ··'l\h~ Sp~JJ .. (t9S3, d~t~J~)''\V¢-lf.&JJ.II8J!!Pm the play i>y .Karl Stm:ll)einl, 'Viti\ KW.U$Mari~,.~ran4iw~r. Jt~~~ennent)A TV pro(iu,.ctiQtL ~ Stemhei~'s: f~ol!s pl*Y;, s~ in 1910 Bedin .. wbh an i.Ul~$l\f9a.~t .~ ~tlig:ht iJtoduetionvalues, ·\' Monday,May9: · ' · ' · ·· Video The American Friend. (t977, directed by Wim~Wenders, with Detmis Hopper, Brum~ Chtnz, Nicholas Ray, Sam Fuller). Thf.l German dkootor Wim WeJtders dh'®led lmm a stylish thriller set in Nt::w Yolk and Hambu.rg telling of the encouuter between an AmerielAA COtl artist (l)eru:li:s Hopper) and a German craftsman (Bruno Ganz). At fust the two different t:ultures clash but in me end the Aw()rlmn gets to lib his German friend. An extremely well crafted film with eatrowdiruey photography. Monday, May 23: Film Hunger Y~ars ht a Riel• O)\nty (1979, directed by Jutta Bruckner}. This film deals with the love·hate relationship of a mother and daughter in pl!Stwar Gennany. The conflict is brought onP)I !.be. g~pcfatlop gl~JJ Qf two different eras. CONCORDIENSIS, April 7, 1988 Call for Entries Call for Entries for the 1Oth Ann~.:~al Photography Reg,ional at the Albany Center Gal'leries. This year's juror is internation - ally renowned photo - · grapher Ralph Gibson. Open to photog rap hers living within 100 miles of the Capital Distrist. Dead - l,ine for entry is May B. Details on entry procad - ures available at the Albany Center Galleries, at the corner of Chapel and Monroe Street in downtown Albany o.r by calling the Gallery at 518-462-4775. The exhibition, cosp6n - sored by Rennsselaer County Council for the Arts, will open May 22 and run through June 10. Educational Studies Program Sfu.dent Information Meetings Tuesday, April 26th 7:00 pro College Center Room 410 Union College students who are considering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in English, modern or classic languag~.=s, mathematics, science (biology, chemistry, earth science, physics or general science) or social studies should attend. Information will be given regarding the undergraduate. graduate, and five-year combined degree programs which will begin at Union next fall. Friday Night 9:30 Come Dance To The Tunes Of THE JONESlS ... and enjoy 50¢ pizza and 19¢ hot wings Where the cool rule ... Dutch Hollow~ Restaurant ''Mom says the house just isrit the same without me, even though its a lot cleaner.'' Just because \OUr Mom is br awav. Joesn ·r mean wm can't he do~e. You can ~till share the lo\'e and laughter on AT&T Long Distance Ser;ice. It costs less. than vou think to hear that she likes the peace and quiet, hut she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a call. You can clean your room later. Reach out and touch someone~ AlaT The right choice. Page 21 Next fall, THE WRITING CENTER wil:l need some new Tutors who are: LITERATE IMAGINATIVE RELIABLE SENSIBLE FLEXIBLE TACTFUL SUPPORTIVE PATIENT FRIENDLY & NICE Does that describe YOU? Ask for an application at THE WRITING CENTER or from Prof. Nelson in Humanities 210. -~~~ ~~~ ~ .. 1<->Q PHARMACISTS Full time pharmacist needed in Pawling, New York. Current state license required. Computerized pharmacy, attractive salary, excellent benefits. Call for interview Monday-Friday 9 am - 4:30 pm. MR. JOHN FAY PHARMACY SUPERVISOR 914-855-1322 OR 201-794-2039 GRAND UNION Equal Opportunity Employer RICHARD BLATCHFORD ORATORICAL CONTEST FlNAL COMPETITION FRIDAY MAY 6 ORATORY AT UNION COLLEGE RK::HARD 8t.ATCHFORO ORATORICAL CONTEST Rui$S 1. Final C:ontes1 wi II be held on Friday, May 6, 1988 at 7:00p.m .. 2. Contestants participcating at that time wm be selected from preliminary screening rotmds. $. PnJimlnary Rounds: Week ot May 2nd. 4. Appro.pr.iate materials will be 1amous speeches (or portions thereof) by histofical persons selecte(;i by participating $tudents. 5. · Sp!'ieches of S to & minutes may be memorized or one may refer to text. 6. Crtterla for .EvalUt~llan A. Communication-ability to articulate ideas clearly B. lnterpretation~sanse of .understanding l)f material C. Sl}'l._sense of presence 7. Cash Prizes First fl~ $200.00 Second Plaoe $100.00 Third'Pia~ $$0.00 s. $4.1e O&an Daniels tot fur1hel' Details - Applications Available (t) S<;ience &,Engr. BuildillQ Roam Si 00; (2) libtary Glrculatitm De$it; • . (3} Stut!Mt AfiWt$ Olfiee. ....

Page 22 CONCORDlENSIS, April 1, 1988 Athlete of the Week. By DAVE MORRISON Associate Sports Editor The Women's Lacrosse team won their first game of the season on Monday by the score of liH against Skidmore. With flowers coming into full bloom so are the prospects of this ,experienced 1988 team. Hopes are rwming high and so they should with a decisive victory such as Monday's. This is the step that every team needs in their opening game, and leading the way was this week's \Athlete of the 9 Week,\ Courtney Lynch by ui scoring four goaL'!. in the win ~ over Skidmore. Lynch is a o junior, English - Political b :I: Science major from Pelham a. N.Y. out of Pelham Memorial High School where she was on the All-County Lax team. Lynch is a two year varsity starter for the team and has been a very explosive scorer in the past. She led the team in scoring last season and second in scoring her freshman year. Lynch nearly broke the school record for most goals scored in a season ( 44 set by Holly Howard~ last year with 41. She is als() within reach of breaking the scllool record, of most goals scored ·in a career of 147 by Howard, Lynchhas 67. Besides demonstrating outstanding play in lacrosse, Lyncll is also an exceptional field hockey player. She has been a varsity starter and letter winner for three seasons in field hockey. .Cour1ney Lynch has proven well . deserving of this recogllition and we wish her congratulations. Of course this award not only reflects her own personal play, but also is credit to her teammates. We extend our best wishes of success in the remainder of the season to Courtney, her teammates and coaches. We will be waiting for yet another successful season. GOOD LUCK! Baseball Splits Home Opener On a Double Day By SPORTS STAFF Saturday's baseball lineup had fans seeing double; an Anderson hitting first, an An· derson hitting sixth; a Valachovic at third, one on the mound; and two strong right· handed Marks in relief. As seen last weekend these three pairs will be quite valuable to the team for the rest of the season. Saturday, a day of double headers, double plays, double names, and doubly interesting and indedsive umpires, started Union off at 1 and 1, in their home-openers. In the first game Dave An· derson, who bit in Alex Rita's old lead-off spot, pounded two hits and ran out the long throw from third to first for three hits. A strong shot into center got him two bases. Tony Amarante defied St. Lawrence outfielders by slamming two hits to op- - posite sides of the field. Union bats, though, could not over- come St. Lawrence's 10 runs; Ken Horan pitched three quick innings of one hit baseball but fell victim to an outbreak of hits in the fourth. Second basemen Bill Brun· dige and Bob Anderson of- fensively dominated the second game. In the first ·inning Brundige hit safely to tight, advanced to second on a passed ball and was sacrificed to third by freshman Joe ;Mauro. Tony Amarante walked and in this lineup of triple power in spots 4,5, and 6, Pat Secchiaroli smashed a double to left to score Brundige. Not to be outdone by his two other roommates Bob Anderson singled to center to score both Amarante and Secchiaroli. He went on to collect three RBI's for the day in this second of his rookie season. Brundige started off the fourth witll a shot to left center but was thrown out running to third. The roommate com- bination then struck again for the winning run. Tim Valachovic pitched 6 innings of 4 hit ball and Union defeated St. Lawrence 5-3, Brother Tracy shined defen- sively at thrid with some hustling heads-up play. In relief, in the first game, MaFk Trudeau showed im- provement from last year as he relillquished only 2 hits in 3 . inni11gs. . Another Mark, freshmen Mark Callahan struck out his first collegiate batter in the second game and im- pressively racked up a save to begin his tenure at Union. The next game is Thursday, away, at Hartwick and then Saturday, April 9th at home, Central Park, against Oneonta. Union Softball: Spirit and Skill By SUSAN KERSCH The softball team this season is an enthusiastic combination of talented new players and Btrong experienced members. In the season opener against New Paltz, Union hit strongly. Colleen Dundon had four singles and a double. Kathy Lawliss and Julie Gallo had a pair of . singles each. The bats didn't comp-ensate for the errors. Several innings of compowuling errors made the difference in the 14-13 loss. New Paltz covered almost 20 more total bases than Union. Coach Charlie Roberts believes this statistic to be the best indicator of the team's comparative perfonnance and one we should watch as the season progresses. For the team, the season had really begun ·earlier. Softball spent a week in Myrtle Beach where they faced different and tougher competition. In · ad- dition to improving the team's defensive game, Roberts feels the exr.:rlence gained by the trip 'wqrked out mental errors\ the team had been making, and aDo wed the chance for \individuals to come,o\lt of . tbelr lbelli ad· prove them;. aetree.\ The team began their games with a poor .showing against East Stroudsburg. Although Lawliss batted 2 for 2, the team had batting problems and suffered a loss to Wheaton. Union faced a neighboring school, Russell Sage, and lost in a close (1-0) game. Gallow had an outstanding performance both at bat and in the field. That afternoon brought another close loss with Mt. Holyoke (1-0). Becl(y Thayer bad an ex- ceptional outing behind the plate catching pitcher Susan Kersch who threw 14 straight innings that day. Union lost the next day to Grand Rapids (Michigan), ~7. They then · compounded Rutgers' errors with. goo(l hitting and came back on the 7th for the first victory of their season (4-3). Unlon lost .their last game to the large Smith team. 'J.'iu'oughout the week, Shelly Pino m118cled· some towm big league plays and made them look easy. Kim Keller has really come into her own at first base. Jean Manaco has continued her steac:ly glove behind the plate, catclling for pitchers Khris Tierney and Susan Kersch who are.confident and.relaxed on the moWld. Both Michelle Mon· toney and Missy Hladik have · been consistently improving their play while pitching when needed. J en Kove hopes t-o be working the infield coming back from an injury and Joyce Wbitted is showing a new confidence in the 'outfield. Roberts believes the team has made major improvements by increasing their ability to play anywhere on the field. She feels they are a good team with great fWidamentals and if .they learn to ·use. them· all the time and impre>ve- their mental ap- pr()ach: ''We will be a team that kn()WS how to play the game and play it strong.\ · . Support . Union College Spring Athletics <!Lona:~rllirnsis .. s:po R TS Men's Lax Splits First 4 Matches By EDGAR SCOTrEMERSON The Union · College men's lacrosse team had had four games to date, and thus far has tallied a 2-2 record. The team's · first match was ill sunny Florida, where thy played Trinity College. The Dutchmen . went down by the score of 9-5 .. The game was marked by the . squad's poor showing in the groundball department, as well : as facing a Trinity team which • fed the crease a great· deal, :which tbe Dutchmen had trouDle covering. In . the first game; Dave ' DeBerard.inis led Union witll two goals, and broke his hand as • well. Blake Henderson, John , Keller, and Jason Albert added . goals wllile senior captain · John Tborne was outstanding . in the net. The team lost senior Tony DaRin to tendons in his wrist in a freak accident. His goalscoring ability was .greatly missed. The much traveled team then journeyed to Rochester where they t()yed with the Yellowjackets, beating them by a lo-3 margin. In this contest the Dutchmen did much of what they failed to do in the opener, control the groundballs. Once again Thorne was great in goal, while Keller (3 goals, 0 assists), Phil Horn· (3,0), Captain. Len Lamoniea (1,5), Nich Baratoff (2,;0}, added the scoring. Great ·games w~re also played by defensemem and captain Greg Lehey, Pat Lawson, and Pete Cotier. Last 'Wednesday Union · ventured back to Rochester to take on hi~hly touted R.I. T. The geeks at lt.I.T. were not on the lacrosse field that day, as was evidenced by their t6-5 rout of the Dutchmen. The score was not the full story, as Union hustled all day witll RIT, and bad no regrets, only goals in thier heads .by the end of the ganne. . On .Saturday, Union. played Genese() io:its home opener. the Dutchl'ne11and the Blue Knights fought a hard, seesaw battle, which needed two overtimes for Union t() ,\)e declared victors, by an 8-7. Union tr.ailed at halftime bY a 4-3 smre, but got a .strong job on faceoffs .from Henerson and Mike Uccwlllili, who was hurt in the game and is questionable for the remainder of the season. The gamewas decided Early in the second O.T., · when DeBerardinis scored <lff asweep, cast on his armanda:ll. The Union laxters will take to the field again this Saturday at Albany at 4:00p.m. leU<emia· society or lll!leliea, nc. Crew \87: Where the' boys arel \

' CONCORDIENSIS; 7, 1'988 The start ofthe 1988.baseball season has been breWing for some time now. Several major trades. and free-agent $igrlings were done .in the off-season by many teams. . The biggest moves were made by tbe Oakland A's. They acqllited. Don Baylor and Dave Parker both respecte<l veterans. who will be,expected to take over the leadership of the te~. The A's ~so traded for two pitcbers Matt Younganci Bob Welch. Tbe combination of these four new players and some of the other movesthey made makes the A's a very strong team. A starting lineup that , includes . Mark McGuire, Jose Canseco, Baylor and Parker is nothing to laugh at. These four could combine to hit as many as 120 home runs if aU stay healthy. However the A's are n.ot a perfect tecun. Their starting shortstop, Walt Weiss, is a ·rookie and their s~ondbaseman, MUte Gallego has had some defensive problems. Last year the A's had an atrocious 142 errors. If they don't man4ige to contror that they could be in trouble. Tile acquisition of Bob Welch from the Dodgers may have been their .biggest move. Welch is· definitely an experienced and successful pitcher. He could be the key to their success. The Twins will not be in it becaliSe ·they lost five veterans and added no starting pitchers. Although the Royals could be strong contenders due to the fact that they have great pit- ching, their outfielders are net ver¥ strong at the plate, tbey ·Jlave several aging players and the A's are more balanced. . . The AL East is always .the hardest divis~on to pick. This year three teams look quite strong, the Yankees the Red Sox and the Blue Jays. The Red SoX acquired Lee Smith in the ()ff- season. This may have been the biggest move in the majors considering they gave up Calvin Schiraldi, who may be missed, and AI Nipper whose departure was practically celebr.ated. The Sox have some serious p()wer in the bats of Mike Greenwell, Ellis Burks, Sam Horn and the veterans, Evan, Boggs, and Rice. Pitching will be the main factor. Oil Can Boyd is healthy and Qemens will be making a bid for his third straight Cy Young, b11t the rest of the at;aff remains to be seen. Bean Not ~iln ' Th·e Box Score I ! ~lly M·ark· Zimmerman ' ' The YllJlkees made SCIIDe strong mDves of their o'Wll, grabbing rack Clark and Rafael Santana nDt to mention a n:eiV- old. manager, Billy Marti:n. Clark will be the DH when .he gets over IU:s first injury cf the season. Two new pitchers, J\ om Candelaria· and Ricll Dclt~n, will be very welcomed especially since R(ln GUidry is .presently on the diiJabled JiSt. As usual t:he Yankees willllave tremendollS amount of power behind R~derson, Mattingly, Ward, Wmfield and Patgliarulo. Lou Pinella, now the gen.eral manager, made some good trades which brought him a new catCher, a new shortstop and a new DH. However, their pit- ching is as unpredictable as Georg~ . Steinbrenner. Rick Rhoden lo()()ks to be good; but Guidry is. hurt, Tommy Jolul is 45 years old, and · Charles Hudson ·ts not consisten.t.. The key to the rotation may be rookie A! Leiter. NQw that Billy's back, you never ko.ow how that may affect the team. The Blue Jays will put aU their troubles behind them ·and try · to win the divisi-on, sotnethin,:g they literally hancied to the Tigerslast year. The .I:ays made vmtually no ch~nge$ in the off-s~on. They have tllree of the best players ill Jesse Barfield,. lloyd ;Moseby and George Bell. None of the~ are even thirty years e>ld yet. Howevel', much of the carnara!lerie is gone from the team beC!ause Bell will now be the DH, a position he abhl()rs. Also, Tony Fernandez is coining off a baci elbOw injury, but he has already prcven himself :as a great shortstop. The new seeond baseman, Nelson Liriano looks to be a g()od addition.. Yet, like any team, the key is pitching. If the Jays .. hit ~me of their im- minent slides early it colll.d be over before it starts. This division is just too close to make a pre-season pJ.'ediction ()11. It will most definitely come <IQwn to who h.as the least injuries. and the mo:st consistent pite!bing. The National Leag11e West should s:ee the Giants on t()p but the Red.s may cause Jll70blems. The Reids have placed see!ond three years in a row, f:l11t finally theytra.ded for some pitchillg in the .off·:season. They now have newly acquired Danny Jackson, Jose Rijo and D~nnis RasmllSsen. If manager Pete Rose pl:ays Bo Diaz a bit less at. cathcer a blt less, he should. be more productive. In addition, Buddy Bell, Eric Davis and Kal · Daniels will hold tog~her the offense. But they have had several injuries· to their regulars in the past. The Gaints seem powerful. They have proven veterans at every position and. a very strong pitching staff. The ·infield is ov:erloaded with talent as Jeffrey Leonard, Mike Aldrette, Brett Butler and Candy Maldonaro look to fight for .three place$ with Aldrette the odd man out as of now. The pitching of .Krukow, Reushal, and Dravecky looks to be quite consistent as well. The Gaints just have more depth. than any other team in the West. Last year they were only 9ne game away from the World Series, this year the only thing stopping them should be the winner of the NL East. The NL East looks to be an easy pick according to St. Lollis manager Whitey Herzog. Herzog, in. a teleVision in- terview said, \The Mets are heavily fav()red and rightly so.\ The Mets are back this year with almost the same team that they used to Win the World Series two years ago. All of their pitchers are healthy, the infi~ of Hernandez, Teufel, Elster and Johnson. looks to be solid and the outfield of ·McReynoldS, Dykstra, Wilson and Strawberry also looks to be qtlite patent. Part of the reason the Mets should win it is d11e to lack of competition. As Whitey Hetz()g said, \You can't con- tinue to lose quality players and not replace them and still ex:- pect to win, which is what we have done. Without Jack Clark for 162 games we'll be lucky to play 500 ball.\ This may be a · slight exaggeration but it is · true. Although the Cards did sign Bob Horner, other problems are still present. Several players are just getting over serious injuries and operationl3 They do still have their speed and pitching, but their power hitting is not that strong. Their pitching should be just as g()od as anyone's, but . they don't have the depth that they need. \ It looks like the 1988 season will be a mirror image of the 1973 season when the NY Mets faced Oakland in the World Series. Applications due Friday, t1fJzrffff ~ ~ Pick up applicatior.s in the Dean of Student's Office 3rd Floor 9ollege Center And don't forget to sign up for ar. Interview time! 0 0 C!rnn.tnr~itnsis SPORTS With A Perspective On Sports By ANDREW :WJ.I.ER Sports Editor O.K., it'strue, I admit it,. I am .a Red Sox fan! Since the heralded days of '75 when the names of Yaz, Carbo, and 'I'iant graced the sports pages, I have been a &Sox die-hard. For the PaBt 13 baseball seasons I have beet), saying about this ·time every year that, \This season will belong to the Sox.\ So as I make my m.a&ired pre-season pick, I ask :fur your forgiveness. In '88 we wm be seeing Red. The Sox demise in '87 was a blessing m diBgm8e. After that infam(}:US June night in which the Red Box watebed an 11-run lead vanish to the dreaded Yankees~ with the Sox ace Roger Clemens on the mound, the '87 campaign was all but The Sox demise in '87 was a blessing in disguise. over. The beat writers ripped into manager Jon MacNamara, and the rest of the Sox organization. They clamored for new blood, and a new at ... titude. Within weeks; the Pawtucket boys arrived. The likes of Ellis Burks, Mike Greenwell, Sam Horn, and Todd Benzinger'· aU made the tE'ip up from Rhode · Isalnd to shoot some new Red into thetired veins of the BoSox Old Guard By August it was clear that there would be no pennant run in '87, yet the Fens was constantly. packed, and attendance records set in the '86 world . series .season were shattered. It was a youth movement, and it took Boston by stonn. Life in the big leagues was nothing to fear for the Pawtucket bOys. When the '87 season had ended, Burks had found himself with a starting centerfield role, not to menticn 20 homers and 27 stolen bases. He was the epitome of the new look Sox. Greenwell, not to be outdone, literally tore the league apart. His · .328 batting average, 19 homers, earned him a third place finish in the baseball wirters' Rookie of the Year voting. Horn single- handedly packed the park with his exploSive bat. Not since the days of Ted Williams had a big lefty captured the heats, and imaginations of Sox fans everywhere. Horn was larger than life, beth literally and figuritively. In '87, between Fenway and Pawtucket, Horn smashed a whopping 44 home runs. BenZinger was classified as a back-up player whe11 they broke into the majors. After injuries to Rice and Gedman the backaup playes took center stage. Benzinger's hot bat and \Charlie Hustle'' style cf- play made him an integral part of the Red Sox outfield shake--up. That was then, this is now. TJle Pawtucket boys are back, and seasoned. They are joined by the us~ Sox cast of characters. American League batting champio~ Wa<te Boggs will be heard from (nothing more needs to be said). Oiwght Evans ('87· .305, 34 homers, 123 RBI's), considered by Detroit skipper Sparky Anderson as the consistently best all-round player in the maj'ors, has vowed to improve. on his '87 mmbers. Don't forget Mr. Rice; After making pre-season waves in the press, Rice has clammed up and has decided to let his bat do the talking. 1986 World Series MVP Marty Barret is still around. The critics say Barret has lost a step in the hole at second. After a flawless spring training, which included a quiet .340 batting average, the critics don't seem to be picking on little Marty anymore. The Red Sox have the best starting pitching staff in baseball. Clemens, Boyd, Hurst and Sellars all have 20.ganne winning pt>tential. Qemens is in search of his third consecutive Cy Young, while the ether three are battling to step out of the Rocket Man's large shadow. Relief. Oh, What a relief it was to hear about the Sox' big winter Meeting deal. The Sox sent AI Nipper, still lookillg for his fastball, and Calvin Schiraldi, still looking at his pitches wind up in the screen over the Green Monster, to Chicago for Mr. Rolaids himself, Lee Smith. ·Smith is simply overpowering. 'lbe mainstay of the Chicago bullpen is now the hope of the Sox. Smith comes in and throws smoke. He is quick:, efficient, and a proven winner. Red Sox fans everywhere are hoping \Smith Magic\ will do for After making pre-season waves in tbe press, Rice has clammed up and has decided to let his bat do the talking. Boston what Jeff Reardon did for tbe World Champion Min- nesota Twins last year. This year's crop of new talent includes rookie phenom Brady Anderson. Anderson blew into Winter Haven shollldering the optimism of management which calls him \the next great Red Sox: left fielder.\ Anderson ended the spring batting .338. His All-American face and name have made him a media darling, and an early, very early, pick for Rookie of the Year. · The Sox in '87? With what Dwight Evans calls, ''the most talented team he has ever played on,\ how can you go wrong? You can call it wishful thinking, and it may be from a biased source, but if it looks like it can happen, and if it does, this is one Sox fan who won't be shy to disclose his pre-season pick. Let the games begin! Support Union College Spring · Athl-etics

52 ~ ~ a: :r: 0 fa a: Cl ·~ 0 ..,., .~ ... 0.. Union Women's Lax face off against Skidmore In a Scrumdowns the old·fashlol'led way ... down and dirty. 16-4 win. Union Ruggers Begin Long Road to N.Y.S. Upstate Tourney By DAVE MORRISON Sports Editor Last weekend the Uni0on \Huns\ R11gby club kicked off their Spring '88 season bty mauling the Ithaca Bltae Bombers 1 '7-0. It was a game that would set the team's to11e for the remainder of the seascn Coming off ·()f a 1-5 Fall seas()ln and a mediocre showing in a recent tolliTlament in North Carolina the team needed a -win to prove to themselves they were more talented then previous otltings suggested. The club had been geari11g themselves for a possibly greuling but most assuredly successful season early with hard winter .p1•actices both <~Jn and off the .field. It showed la~t Saturday when they beat Ithe~ea not only because of g()o(i physical conditioning but a:ls() the team seemed to be a lCJt more mentally prepared than in past seasons under the direction of captains Chris Sheridan and Tom Muzzonigr(). Early in the first half Union went on the board with a penalty kick from Chris Sheridan from about 25 meters out. The score was 3-{). Union W()uld again score after a heads up play by T()m Muzzonigro wben he rushed the ball forward on a penalty play, catching the Itllaca scrwn off guard. Sheridan could not convert the extra points kick and the score was 7-0. With 5 minutes ieft in the first half Union out-ruked and maUled Ithaca and gained control of the ball. On a tremendous team effort the ball was dished off to· Dan Gilbert frcm Dave Webb and Gilbert ran it in for the try. Sheridan converted the kick and. the score was now 13..0. In the second he~lf it seemed both teams could not establish any offense until late in the game. Josh Derechin booted a kick downfield and was in- tercepted by Ithaca. The Ithaca player tried to kick it back but it was blocked by J(Jhn Baker who ran into to the try zone and touched the ball down for the final score, it ended at 17-o. Overall, the whole team played extremely well. · The Union Huns proved their point and not only beat them on the field; but also in a post-game rematch held in the vacinity of a stray keg. The Union rookies delivered a crushing blow to Ithaca deminishing them to the verg~ of tears. We wait with trel!lendous anticipation, hopmg to see that Union Rugby can reclaim its ()ld reputation as a rugby SUPERPOWER! Fresh From Florida Men's Tennis Prepares for Battle By ELISA ROSENZWEIG The mens tennis team, after having spent their spring break in Florida, has returned mDre enthusiastic than ever and are h()ping to impr()ve their record toat least .500, if not better. Nine members of the twelve rnan squad spent their break in Delray Beach at the Geralitus Tennis Center with coach Anna Means. The men that went include Rob Ackerman, Jon Artz, John Conti, Andy Gon- zales, Pat Guy, Jim O'Brien, J()hn Pallozzi, Keil Scl:nnid, and JCJe Voyticky. Stephen Baker, Daniel Elkeslassy, and captain Chad Levin did not go for various reasons. Each morning the team arose at 8:30a.m. and practiced untll 11:00 a.m. Every afterno()n they played matches . against various · FIDrida colleges. (Of course they caught a few hours of sun at the beach during their lunch hour). Their first match was against Pahn Beach Junior Cclllege. Anna Means said they were a very, very strong team arid that . they had been close match. Although he lost coach Means said · she wa~ impressed with the way he played. She said he had a great variety of shots: serving and vollying, a forCing serve, a chipped backhand, and a top- spin lob. He plays \a very sophisticated game.\ The 3rd doubles team of Joe Voyticky and John Conti also lost in a very close three set · matchagainstidentical twins. Union's second match was against Florida Atlantic State College. Rob Ackerman had a close match and Jim O'Brien, playing second singles, had a very strong second set losing 7· 5. . . 6 recruited first for tennis and it then for academics, Freshman ·~ Rob Ackel\llWI played #1 . ii: singles and bad a very long and Under the circumstances that Florida teams play all year roWld and our team had only practiced a few weeks, coach Means thought the men played extremely well. She also said the men's games were raised through playing the stronger teams. The team appears to be more enthusiastic and spirited about tennis. The men are obviously more dedicated to their games. Given an end of the week chQice to lounge on the beach or work on their strokes, most chose the extra play. If this isn't dedication, whatis? Women's Lax Nets Seaso.n Opener By FIONASHUKRI The Woments Lacrosse team kicked·Off th~ir 1986 season with a win agaillst Skidmore this past Monday-. Despite losing some of la~t year's players, including starter Erin Sheehan; to injuries, Union made a strong showing, beatir!g Skidmore 17-4. Katie Hamilton '89 began the barrage,. sc<>ring four minutes into the game. Union dominated the rest ·()f the first half finishing with a 10-1 lead. cO: captain, Cowtney Lynch '89led the scoring with four goals • Jane Barkin '88 and Anna Alle~ '90 fired in two goals each and Megan Kenlledy '90 scored with an assist from Barkin. Sophomore goalie Linda Hines played well with eight saves. Union lost some of its in- te!lsity in the second half, but still managed to rack up six more points while forfeiting only three t<l Skidmore. Sarah Shaw '88 and Hamilton each fired in two; Allen, Kennedy and Barkin each scored one: Defenders Danielle Lavign '89 and co-captain Carolyn Zutell '88 had strong performances, Zutell earning one· assist. Freshman goalie Sheila Conway, saw .some time at the end of the second half and also played well. · · Union showed its. strength and depth against Skidmore and is looking to qualify for states. Coach Martha Morrison said after the game, ''l !mew the women's lacrosse team was going to be strong. The attack did some nice things today and looked stronger than I had expected actually, the defense was eKcellent as well. The team is defmitely capable of a .500 or better seasQn. Rochester and Hamilton will be tight games, but I exp.ect us to be in every ball game we play.'' The junior varsity alsD picked up a win on Monday~ beating Skidmore seventy-six. For many players,. this game was their first. They · oatpl.ayed a more experienced Skidmore team, ending the first half :with a 5-2 lead. In the second half Skidmore was able to,tie up the score at six-all, but freshman Meghan Carlin fired in the winni11g goal wlth a little over six minutes left on the elock. Megan Kennedy prepares .to unload a shot against Skldmor.e goalie, she had two goals. · '·

~ .. - ... CXVII, No. 20 Vice President Bush Campaigns in Schenectady for New York Primary Qy DAWIEL J. KENffiY how to solve problems. .Asse~ciate News Editor . Republican philosophy is not to Vice President George B.ush ' turn to the federal government hosted a .fundraiser breakfast to solve problems. ·Republican bere · in Schenectady on philosophy .is the com- Tuesday,. April 12. The passionate'philos()phy.'' an<t called tlleidhemes \gloom and doom · tax and spend •.. a diagnosis .of malaise that they offered in 1~8(), again in 1984 - it's. like 'deja vu all over again.\ Bush cited statistics of the See BUSH, p. 3 !: :> 'J) ::c .u ~ ! ~ C/). GrowJng Awareness of Nat'ion's ·Ed:ucatlon System Yields Increased Funding_ By VIRGINIEMELIO ~ For the first time in eight :c. years the Reagan Ad- c. ministration h:t:ts requested an increase in funds for the U.S. Department of Education. This increase represents a 4.2% augmentation in the 1989 fiscal ~ear as opposed to the average 15% requested cuts in the past seven years. This turnaround· in the Ad- ministration's policy towards · education allocations seems to have arrived on the crest of a growing (!W~reness towards the nation's educational system. The proposal increases the See ·EDUCATION, p. 4 April 14, 1~38 Campus Mourn~s Loss of Two Prominent Members Henry Butzel, 63 Charles Morrison, 51 The flags fly at llaif mast as the campus community moUI'IlS the loss of two of its longtime members. Friday April B, Professor of Biochemical Genetics, Henry M. Butzel, Jr-. and Director of AIChilles Rink and retired Head Coach M Hockey, Charles N. Morrison died .. Professsor Butzel taught at Union for 35 years. He will be remembered for his dedication and contributions to his students, the department, an(J the loeal community. Charlie ~orrison. coachef Union Hockey for ten years and virtually rebuilt the faltering team. He will be remembered. for demanding one hundred percent from his players and. giving them the samE in return. Profes$or Butzel, See p. 1~ Charlie Morrison, see p. 23 Jiepubfi~;m · . Qandid.a,t~ . for , • J~ysh: ,stm~S.se~ unity in tlle President spoke a,t..the:'Ramad.a Republi:~afi ·party;· callifig the Inn· ~n Nott Street on llis . Republican debates earlier in economic policy and on defense . . the year ''cruel and inhuman issues. The vice president was punishment,\ He thinks that the invited to campaign here by Democrats will eventually \get Vito C. Caruso, ChairmanCJfthe their act together\ and will be Schenectady CCJI.Ulty united bebind one candidate. Republican Committee. The vice president said that he Admissions Office Reports 12% Increase in Union Applicants Schenectady Countywas one of still needs votes for the New the first to publicly endorse York State Republican ptimary Bushfor,J?resident. on April 19, (Although Caruso A handful of protest()rS . announced . before the speech ( approxii:!lately 10,.15) gathered · that all ~he, Kemp delegates had outsi-de the Ramada c~lling for turned to Eush). the indictment anQ.Ior im- Bush criticized the peachmentof George Bush. Democratic campaign message Bush began his speech by that it's \midnight in America\ stating, \Schenectady county· By ELJSEFOODY Associate News Editor Finalized plans are being made in the Admissions Office for the UnioaClass of 1992. This isthe time of year when anxious students receive the final word on admission fr<Jm colleges to which they have applied. Applications to Union for next a place with a name as long as my resume.\ He noted that the pace of his campaign has slowed since the Iowa causes and th.e New Hampshire primary, though he said he will campaign up until the end o:f the primary season. Student Survey of Capital District Finds He eictolled the Republican governmental philosophy of Dukakis Stron:g \ what he termed, \grass- By ALEX GARDNER roots .. .two . way com• munication.\ Power should be In light of the April 19 New placed in the hands of the York presidential primary, elected representatives of the visiting political science localities. They, according to · professor Thomas Holbrook- Bush, \have a better corner Dn · Provow's social data analysis class conducted a random sample poll of 500 Capital District Residents. The poll, which surveyed people from Albany, Ren- sselaer, Schenectady, Saratoga and Columbia counties, found that local voters would give Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis a Democratic .primary victory and woUld choo$e him for president if he ran against Vice President George Bush. The survey indicated that 52 percent of Democrats will vote for Dukakis in the New York Primary on Tuesday. Jesse Jackson should receive 16 percent and AI Gore only 5 percent. When those swveyed were asked who they Would choose if Bush faces Dukakis in the November election, 62 percent named Dukakis and 33 percent said Bush. Dukakis, the poll showed, was the only Democrat still in the primaries who eould beat the vice president in the general election. \Capital :Pistrict voters seem to be much 'more pro-Dukakis than do voters nationally,\ Holbrook-Provow felt it was the general dissatisfaction of Capital District voters with Ronald Reag;m and their un- willingness. t() vote for more of the same with his vice president. The 26.students who worked 5- 9 .p;m. Monday through Thursday of last week were reptesented by Jaimie Lipsher '90 and Keith Bemis '90 at a conference on Monday. They along with Prof. Holbrook~ Provow told r\eporters and TV cameras about their findings. Both students found the C!illers receptive and overall pretty willing to answer the 54 question poll. Prof. Holbrook-Provow said students will follow up on the poll by condueting one again in late September to c<Jillpare results. year's class have increased 12.5 college. percent over last year. Mr. A final and most interesting Kenneth Nourse, Dean of Ad- reason for the increase in ap- missions and Financial Aid plicatjons is the fact that Union believes there are three reasons has made submitting a for the increase. student's SAT scores optional. One reason :fcJr the increase in Out of 3440 applications made to applications is the completion - Union, approximately 23 per- of the construction on the · cent did not submit thEir scores. College Center and Alumni; Union still requires st11dents to Gymnasium. Eoth buildings are submit their ACT £eores or vital to coU~ge community three Achievement Test scores. activities and tllis year's ap- Nourse stated that the class plicants while touring th.e ranks and grade point averages campus were the fit\St to see the of the 23 percent who did not buildings in use. submit their scores were just as Another reason applications strong as their competitors as to Union have illcreased,Nourse well as the scores received in believes, is tllat Union now. past years. _ requires an on-campus in- Since 1979, Nourse bas been terview for applicants who live reviewing prospective students' within 300 miles of the college. applications and he stated that There have been 3825 in- the class of 1992 has been the terviews ori campus this year most selective year he has compared to 2775 last year. experienced. Union has Malting the interview required received more applications this brings the students to the year and must accept fewer campus and is instrumental in students than they did last year. their decision to attend the See APPLICANTS, p. 3 Photo of the Wflqk: Protesters stage demonstration at Ramada Inn during Vice President Bush's visit to Schenectady. ! . ', i \ I : ~

Page Z CONCORDJENSIS,, Ap_ril 11,. 1988 ~ The Case of Jesse Jackson's So-Called Damaging Political Baggage - And How It Will Affect NY Voters By ALEX G!RDNER Four·years ago Jesse Jackson came into the New Y()rk Primary haunted by his now infamous \hymietown\ remarks and his association with the anti-semitic Louis Farrakahan. If this year is consistent with past New Yi»rk primaries, 22 percent of .the voters on April 19 will be Jewish. In other words, Jackscn, who got 26 percent of the vote in the 1984 New York primary, will have to appease these Jews. if he is to record an upset over neighboring governor, Michael Dukakis. Besides. alienating Jews in 1984, Jackson'S methods of foreign relations caused many to discount his candidacy. Can people forget these incidents? Here is a look at some of the \Jackson actions\ of the past that have caused such a stir, along with what he has done to rectify his past indiscreti()ns. Jackson's personal Civil Rights and Civil Wrongs :By ADAM GAHTAN President Reagan recently vetoed a civil-dghts bill con- cerned particularly with the discrimination practices of federally supported learning institutions. Apparently, the President's arguments con•· vinced nobody, and the Senate and House of Representatives have already overriden the veto. The bill, now a law, serves to coWlteract the 1984 'Grove City' decisi()n, in whicb the Supreme Court ruled that only the specific program within a university, or other instituti(ln, need comply with federal aDti· bias statutes in order to receive aid. Now' however, after fC>ur years of lobbying by members of the education community, in order for any part of an in· stitutuion to receive federal monies, all its departments must conform to the sex- discrimination laws in question. President Reagan feels that the law interferes with the practices of the private sector Syria Still ·Harboring Nazi War Crirllinal ByDA VID K. JUDEI.SOHN Al()is Brunner, who is presently being provided protection and sanctuary by Syria, heads the list of most wanted Nazi war criminals still at large .. Brunner was a key aide ;:md close associate of Adolf Eicbman, the Nazi official charged , with masterminding the \Final Solution.\ Brwmer at first worked as secretary to Eichman . in the Jewish Arrairs Department. Soon after being praised by Eicbniann as \my best man\ Brunner became director {)f hte Naza Central Office for Jewish Imigration. Alois Brunner was cllarac- terizedas ''the SS' roving mass- murder expert.\ By 1943b'~ had depl)rted some 48,000 Austrian Jews to concentration camps. He was next called to Berlin to blan the deportation of Jews living there. His most sigl'lificant and devasting destruction took place at Sal.()nika, Greece, one {)f the oldest Jewish co nun unities in Europe. Brunner organi2ed the mass evacuation of some 46,000 Jews in February 1943 to Auschwitz-Birkenau, where all were gassed to death. He was next transfeiTed to Frmce and latl't' to Czechoslovakia. By the · end of the war in 1945, Brunner was responsible for organizing tbe roundup and mass· murder the NaZi death camps of more tbim 135,000 Jews from .Austria, G:.«many, Greece, Fr8IIce and Czechoslovakia. Although Brunner was arrested and interned by American and British authorities after the war, h' . wemt unrecognized due to the ;.· , . :: use of an alias : Alois Sch- maldienst) and the absence of the telltale SS blood-type tattoo. After being condemned to death in absentia by Franc.e in $954, Brunner fled Europe t() Egypt and then to Syria. Uqder an alias, Brunner ran a trading company and acted as a representative for West Ger .. man firms. In 1960 his true identity was revealed to Syrian authorities when he was arrested by the secret police on sospicion of drug smuggling. He was immediately accepted by Syrian officials whQ sub- sequently enlisted his aid. He served as a security advisor to the Syrian government, trained security police in interrogation methods, and was a security advisor to the brother of Syrian President Hafez Assad. · Many efforts by many nations, such as Austria, West Germany, and Israel, llave proved unsuccessful in the attempt to extradite Brunner. Syria in 1960 gave Brll11Iler protection as a means of up- setting Jews and Israel, and to incorporate his· knowledge in their gove~ent. This has upset many nations and has caused problems in Syria's foreign relation. Syria has realized it has made a mistake and is in an embarrassing situation which it cannot amend. If Syria gives Brunner to international authorities it is acbnitting its error, but by holding on to him Syria is hurting its t~es with ether nations. While many groups are working to promote ~ctions leading to· Brunner's ap· prebenslon, Syria will most likely protect Brunner lllitU his death. , .. \\· .. -~ ... •.. •·! .• .. . . NEWS ANALYSIS diplomacy ~8$ seen h.im 'emm brace notorl{)llS terrorist, PLO leader Yassir Arafat, calling him a \true heto\ whose \commitment to justice is an absolute one.\ Jackson has also urged followers of Fidel Castro to keep fighting, \Your struggle is Cl~ struggle.\ He .~as shouted ·~:~~ Havana, \Long Uve Cuba, l.c:Jilg live Fidel Castro.\ There is great concern . about what \Jackson action\ as he likes to say' would, really mean in practice, especially in foreign policy. . . . However, the question lS~ should we judge Jackson ',s current race for the ,presidency on some isolated incidents that took place when Jackson was in his 30's. Is he doing Sllb- stantially better in '84 becallSe of the weak competition or because he, at age 46, has shed bis radical image. One thing is for sure, he has improved his position with the electorate ·immensely through the C()urse and state governments, and is threatening to the free practice of religion. The Reverend Jerry Falwell whole-heartedly agreed with the President, thus no doubt lending divine credibility to the claims of the bill's op- ponents. · Presidential hopeful Geroge Bush, ever trying to solidify his gelatinous poSitions, supported the President's veto, citing the bill's 'imperfections'. It is easy to understand the Vice President's conce111considering the flawlessness of the ciJl'rent administration's last seven years of policy-making. Why ruin a good thing, after all, especially over something as controversial as government backed sex-discrimination? of the primaries. In the :New York Times- CBS poll tillten before the Michigan caucwu, Jackson's rating 1\litb Democrats reached its bi~est levelever: 44 percent favoraille and only 29 percent un~ favorable. Jackson wcn11 as much as 40 percent of Michigan '.s, 23 _percent of. Wisconsin's, and 20 perce11t of Connecticut's white vote. Attention .now turns to the !few York Primary, where 11lCJl'e than a quarter of t:h.e ele(!j;cr.ate is likely to be black. \What Dukakis loses to Jackson .in the passio'll · departmeilt, l)e gains. ill \expe-rience\.\ . Many commentators }lave deemed this a must~vtin situation for Dukakis bectt:use New York is in his baclcyard; Dukakis is certainly not the campaigner Jackson is~ iind.his failure to develop a compelling message accoWits for''hiS.L\()Iler .. And even though his election seems imminent already., lte is clearly taking no chi:lil<!eS hy, say, alienaUng the female voters~ During the time between the 'Grove City' decision ami passage of the bill. of the smne name, some 800 bias complaints have been dropped after filing. Civil-rights activists pesit a calisal relationship betwe:enthe 1984 declsion and droppini of the suits, because <Jf t:he nattowing parameters lilldet which one may file set ilr the court in 1984. Some of :tJ1ese complaints will MW be reviewed, though none of the decisions will be retro::a~i:ve. Wappingers Falls: Sleepy rown Turns Into Racial Hot· Spot By BRUCE HAY ,.JR.. Consider your typical all- American town, a place where there is no crime, no other malady of life to think about. Wappingers Falls . is a step above ttlat, they have McDonalds, Burger King, shopping rnallst schools and lill the other niceties of life, courtesy of IBM who is the major employer in D11tchess County. Since November 1987, they alSQ have racial problems. A few days before Thanksgiving, Ta.wa'na Brawley, a Wappingers Falls teenager, skipped school t() see her boyfriend in Newburgh. Four days later she was foUnd in a garbage bag, degraded by six white men who just dropped her off and left. '' Be~ause of the scrawlin~s on her body, initially the attack was supposed to be racially motivated, six white men kidnap and rape a black· · teenage girl andthen dliJI),p her off in a trash bag cover!(!(! whth animal feces and racial :slurs. Immediately, Rev. Al Sllatpt()n and two attorneys steppoell in to aid this poor girl in see&::illg her assaUants. Under their oC()imeU, she has not muttered a word about what happened t() her Witil her attorneys can secure a new special prosecutor. Since that time a lot of bizarriEl1himgs have cotne to light in th~ case. Firstly, when ''ll'il.wana skipped school to see her boyfriend, it was at a jail where her boyfriend is serving a sentence for drugs. OnE, l'wnor circUlating in Dutchess County •coaster ride as the front. runn~r. However, what I)Ukakis loses to Jackson in the passion department, . he gains in ex- .perience, Will the New York voters take a risk 011 the un.- proven Jackson7 Jackson is as passionate and controversial as Dukakis is consistent and predictible. Witness Jackson's recent c&n~paign which was hardly flawless.. Writing privately to Gen. Manuel Noriega of Panama was .reckless and invited critics to reeall his .past contacts With other unsavory foreign figures. But still the .Jackson supporters are now fully aware that their ballots might be interpreted not as protest votes, but as true expressions of their preference for the White House. He has changed the question from, what does Jesse. want instead 9f the presidency, to what be wants to do as pre~lident. His success has forced his colleagues to stop worrying about his race, and to start scrutinizing his platforms. One legitimate. concern is that passage of the bUl will leadto an explosion in the number of civil- rights cases. which fall under the jurisdiction of the Depart· ment of Education. However, activists believe that it is better to have more people fiUng than to have people iiJ.timidated by the narrowness of the Supreme Court's decision. One illegitimate concern is Jerry Falwell's: that religious institutions could be forced to \hire a practicing, active, homosexual drug-addict with ·AIDS to be a teacher or youth .pastor.\ For those of YQU with an these particular qualifications and career ambitions,. the line forms to the left. is that a drug deal fell through and since the people involved could not get at Tawana's _boyfriend, they instead abused Tawana to make a point. Secondly, just recently, a case very similar to Tawana's was reviewed. A classmate of Tawana's about a year and a half ago hall a story ahno$1: identical to that which Tawana is claiming. Apparently, Tawana was well aware of the story. Her friend was later shown to have been lying. Ta:wana was reported by a few to have been seen in places that her friend had also been seen in during the time she was·. sup· posedly abducted. Also, a few of the students at the schQol Tawana. :attends were on a talk show in New York City. One of • the girls who said that Tawana was ·lying was beaten up badly in school the next qay. ll~our of the men who were supposedly involved in the sexual abuse were prov:en to have been in Connecticut for much .of the time that Tawana was ab- ducted. :School books t:Qat were See BRAWLEY, p. 4 Copy this petition form as needed. Send signed. petition to: Commission on Peace and Justice,. 39 Phili!) St. Albany, NY 12207 or to Religious Life Office,' College CGnter·. Room 404 -through l.ntra-campus· · mall~ Please send befn• .~prll ·20 ;, . · \ ] ,J Col ME ve: in t~ De R~ St1 fir be ha ac p~ ve du 'PO th se fit pr di a th hE A: C( t~ Cl SE ci tE fi fi tl u

.. North C·ollege 'Fires Spur S.ecurity Consciousness on· Campus By TRACEY PRYLUCK, A series of .fires at North Colle.ge during the month .of March have prompted an m~ vestigation .. by .campus security,\ in cooperation with North residents and resident adv,isors, Dean Wood of the Office of Residence Life, and Dean of Sttulents_joseph Mattunola. The. fires, of which there have not been more than five o<;cassions, have all been minor incidents, according to Head of Sec~ty Paul Mantica., The m- vestigation has been prompted due to the presence ()f all, but ·possibly one occassion, of signs that the fires were deliberately set. The circumstances of tbese fires, in which flammable paper products were found. at the different locations, has created a· feeling of uneasiness among the involved parties. A motive has not yet beem determined. As Mantica explained, the concern stems primarily from the possiblity that if the fires continue, \it may create a serious incident caused ac- cidentally. It may not be. in- tended, but you cannot control fire·. If people are playing with ffre, it could be dangerous.\ . Measur~s have be~n and are being . taken to identifY. 1he . party/parties involved m. an . attempt to put an end to these · incidents. It· is hoped that the instigator(S) wHl be identified so astolnsurethat the fires are pertmmetly ended. ·surveillance techniques such ·as surveillance cameras are . being used, at North College. · The kitchenettes have. ~en closed down, and security has · been increased to .monitor the dorm. There is now a 24.-hour . sign in, carefully identifying · people who come in and whom they are visiting.\ According to Dean Wood, inte'rviews . o£ the residents of the second noor, , where the majority .of the in- cidents occured, have been completed, and other residents . . are 'being in,terviewed as well. Floor meetings have been held · discussing the incidents, and the residents are on tl:te lookout · for strangers they notice in the dorm. Residents have been advised to report suspicious characters to theit RA's, or to .security. Bronnet House, the cooperative situated next door to North, has been asked to keep 'its doors locked .. Both Mantica and Dean Wood See. SECURITY, p. 4 :I: !7l, a: Ul X: :2:. ~· ::l• Page 3 Applicants Being Finalized for the Class of 1992 <n Continued fro~Jt page 1 ?Xi ~ ~ Vice President Bush discusses issues with supporters . at 'breakfast. Bush Favors Line Item \ Veto, Strong Defense, in Speech at Ramada Continued from page 1 1980's ''longest peacetime expansion- 65 months:\ 15 and a half million new jobs, one-half million every 4 months, two- thirds of jobs in higher skill and 90% full time, Unemployment in New York is less than .. one- half of what it waf! in 198(). Bush wants to provide ''incentives'' for economic growth. He favors a \capital gains differential\ which win stimulate growth. He wants to balance the bud~et by ''holding the line on spepding.'' He reiterated his promise not to raise taxes and said he would push the people .and the Congress for a line-item veto to cut spending. He repeated that he wanted to be known as the \Education President.\ He advocates the Workers Readjustment' Prograr:n, where people who become wtem- ployed because of technological advances in industcy can be retrained. They are accepting about 37 percent of 3440 applicants. Nourse said, \Union has had to deny a lot ()f good kids ad- mission.\ Early decision applications were also on the increase this year. Out of 262 applications, 163 were accepted. From those accepted, 82 were men and 81 were women. Nourse looks forward to narr()wing the male- female ratio to about 55:45 for the incomilig etas~. The ratio for the present freshman Class is about 6().:40. This year the number of W()tnen applying to Union has increased 22 percent which Nourse attributes to the SAT not being required. National stutlies have shown that on the average, women tend to score ·60 points lower than men on the standardized tests. · The class o!)jective for in- coming frestunen is set at 510. Union Will aCJcept 1288 students and expects to hear p()sitive Mantica further stressed that the incidents are not being taken as a prank or a joke. CSR Students Bu;rn - Tuition Bills Dur;in.g Rally Vice President Bush briefly touched on · defense issues, stressing the importance of the United States to have a strong , , defense and to therefore be able to speak for \freedom and .democracy - and human rights.\ ·decisions from.about 535. Then in what is knoW!l as the \summer melt,\ Uni()n expects to lose about 25 students thus reaching their goal of 510 for the fresh- man class. DAM·BROSE CLEAN'ERS 1517 .. VaQ yrant.en .. fJ.Vf# .. 374-51·93 DRY CLEAN'ING AND TAILORING Ry CHRISTINE HONG College of Saint Rose students held a rally protesting the 10% increase in tuition for the 1988- 19~9, ac~uJep:li~ year by purmug their tUition biUs tbis past Monday: · · - · · . · The rally, billed \Fight for Student Rights '88,\ was designed. to protest the college's decision to raise its tuition level as well as make three demands on the CSR Administration. Inscape, ' , their student n~wpaper, reported that the three demands were: one, \that a student 'serve as a full voting member of the Board of Trustees; two, that tuition not be raised higher than the an· ·.SOMETHING NEW IS· HAPPENING! The April 1988 Union College Bloodmobiles will be held in Fox Lounge. · Each day's bloodmobile will be sponsored by a fraternity and soro~ity. The following frater- nitit~s have agreed to sponsor the April blood- . mobiles: ·Wednesday, April20, 1988 Sponsored by S'IGMA CHI Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. GOAL: 60 Units of ~lood · F:or appointment call Vice Pres. Brad Close tel. . ·386-4153 or American Red Crosss, tel. ~93-3606 . Thursday, April21, 1988 GQAL: 60 Umts of Blood Sponsored by PHI GAMMA DELTA . Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. · For appointment call President Perry Levy, tel. 386-4153 or American Red Cross, teL 393-3606 Friday, April 22, 1988 ~n~fo~~~~~ . Sponsored by PSl UPSILON . Hours: 11 a.m. to 5 p.mm For appointment call Presdient Chuck McGavern. tel 386-430S or American . Red Cross, tel. 393-3606 'I nual increase in finanCial aid; and tl:tree, that all future ex- pansion of college facilities · receive .approval by the Student Assembly.\ . All .. ilidependent gl,'oup· . of studen(s · has been soliciting signatures for petitions con- cerning the tuition increase and other issues that they feel haven't been addressed properly, such . as security, parking, the alcohol policy, and . a unified grading system. The rally included speakers from Inscape, the Executive Board of the Student AssoCiation, students affiliated with ·the petition drive, and· a professor t~ offer facu1ty See CSR, p. 4 the writing center Bush. noted that if the West had accepted the Nuclear Freeze movement of 1983 and '84, instead of ~ policy directed toward the INF-··agreement, ''we would have had 1,000 Soviet missles aiiiled at the Allies and 0 aimed back for the Allies. 1 ' · Instead, he asserted, we were able to sit down with the Soviets and negotiate from a position of strengtlt. \We were able to say to the young people that our administration banned an entire class of nuclear weapons - this is better hope for their future.\ Vice President Bush closed with a description of his trip to Poland last year. He met with the- \communist master\ . Jaruzelski and with SDlidarity leader Lech Walesa. Bush called on Americans to \hold the banner of freedom we sometimes take for granted.\ He urged ,us to have faith in the USA .. \generous the fairest, most decent country on the face of the earth.\ Bush · is the first acting member of the White House to visit Schenectady since Franklin D. Roosevelt. Union has a 40 percent yield ( 4 out of evecy 10 students accepted actually attend Union) which Nourse is ex- tremely pleased about. Colleges such as Harvard have a 72-75 p~rc~nt Yield. and the next closest yield falls ill the lower 60 percent range. Nourse said that many reputable colleges have 20 or 30 percent yields. Union's 40 percent yield is impressive because of all the outside op- tions available to Union ap- plicants. With the increase in the number of applications and campus visits to Union as well as the appearance of the campus, the Admissions Committee has been required to make more selective deCisions. Nourse stated, \the more difficult you make it to come to Union, the m()re ~tudents want to come here.'' There were, he said, about 1,750 students clearly admissable but that n1imber had to. be cut t.o 1,288. And while these fac!s are certainly etlcouragi,ng 'for the College, Nciurse cited one disadvantage, \The flip-side to success is that turning away students from admission is not a fun thing todo.\ THIS WEEK'S EVENTS: · Thursday, 11 a.m . April 14 . . , . Minerva Hour lecture. Connor Cru1se 0 Bnan speaking on •Israel and the Quest for Peace.\ CCAud. 9:00p.m. Friday, April 3:00p.m. 3:30p.m. 5-9:30 p,m. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. 8.:30 p.m. Cabatet. CC Aud. \ 15 . Professor Miles Wolpin on '\[)issenting Amencan Military Officers.\ CC Rm. 003, Professor Samuel Assefa oi Williams College on HFrom Reason to Community: Reflections on Recent Social Philosophy.\ Hum. 213. Dutchmen's Nighl CC AtriliJTI. Film: My Ufe as a Dog. CC Alld. Speaker's Forum presents 'The Comedy Laff-Oif. Memorial Chap. Saturday, Aprli 16 7, 9 & 11 p.m. Film: My Ufe as a DQS. CC Aud. sunday, April 17 3:30·9:30 p.m. Student Phonathon. Hale House. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. Film: My Ufe as a Dog. CC 1\Ud • ; ' I , \ I ' . ' ' i \ ,, ' I : } i \ i ,.

Page 4 CONCORDJEJVSIS, April 14, 1988 Mantica Assumes New Job As Director of Security By MELISSA LEVINE Paul Mantica, who has been serving as Assistant Director of Security & Safety since August of 1987, is now Director of Security & Safety (effective 6 1:! ~- -I 0 (!) >· ~ ~ ~ ' ; it \; ':i Paul Mantica taking ov~r for Cliff Wood April 1). Previous director of Security & Safety, Cliff Wood, will be working on special projects, including new safety programs, until his retirement in July~ Mr. Mantica was for- merly the Rotterdam Chief of Police. He served with the Rotterdam police department for over twenty years before retiring to become Assistant Director of Security & Safety for Union College. Mr. Mantica's job will-differ now in that he is now directly responsible for the operation of the Security/Safety. Depart- ment. Prior to the change, he was responsible for carrying out the plans of the director. Policy and procedure win now be decided by Mr. Mantica, working with the college COIIlii1Unity. . As Director- of Security & Safety, Mr. Mantica plans to take a good look at the needs ()f the campus and see how these needs are being met, as well as examining available resources. He intends to identify areas where positive changes can be made, and to carry out those changes. He would like to establish an \open door'' policy with the college community, meeting with faculty, staff, and students to discuss problems in order to better -resolve issues. First hand interaction, along with openness, are most im- portant to Mr. Mantica, who encourages. the campus to feel free to contact and call on the department. He feels that there is somewhat of a reluctance to deal with the Security Department, and would like to break down whatever barriers may exist in that sense. One way to do this will be to develop a closer relationship with various student groups. Specific issues that Mr. Mantica plans to deal with include, \as always,\ parking problems. Furthermore, the staff in the S~curity · Depart- ment will be reassessed, and some duties may be reassigned, \in ·Order to better serve the campus.\ Mr. Mantica would like to point out that since August, he has enjoyed the campus and the people at Union College. He finds. it a \pleasant place to be'\ and is pleased that people are responding well to his efforts. He is looking forward to a long and enjoyable career here. EducaUon Fundlng Increase; First Time.in 8 Years Continued from page 1 if the proposal is passed. . fellowships . arid \enrichment budget $860 million to 2L2 For Health Profession activities for talented high billion offsetting the . one-third Education the Administration · schGolers.\ redu~t~on ~hat tbe Rea.gan is requesti~g $40 million for the Elementary and seco!lda:~y ~dmm1stration ha~ made sm~e 1989 fiscal year, 81% (:$172 ~chools ar~ also effected if this It entered the White House m million) lower than the present pr-oposal 1s ena~ted. Mag!let 19~0. . year's budget. To make up for schools . (not tmplementmg Accor;ding to _the Ad- this loss the Administration desegregatiOn_ programs) ministratio!l,_sever~l prog.ra~s proposes' to increase the new wo11ld have. a_ 60% increase; ar;e to rece1ye spec~al at~ention private loan program to , d:~g educati?n programs, w1t~ l~rge mcreases !I'Oite the graduate students (the Health , bilingu~l, vocational, and adult maJonty would remam at the Education Assistance Loan . . educatiOn programs would each 1988 fiscal level. Significantly, program by $100;00.0 million. In receive increasesbetwe~n 5·.5% 35. . .pro~rams would be . additian, $17 million will be set and_ 28.2% Yet, approximately elmunated. , aside fQr default . programs. lf) elementa~y and s_ec,?ndary The P~ll Grant pr?gyam s Questions of the pressure of pro15r~rns Wlll b.e ellmmated, budget W1Ugrow$751Imlllon, or debts on graduate students 1ncludmg educat10~. programs 17A6% under the requested have been raised as a result. f()r homeless children. The increase. 39,300 additional · Chapter One Program, which stt1dents in New York State will The National .·Science serv.es these .and other disad~ be able to obtain grants. Fur- Foundation's budget would vantaged children doing poorly tbermore, College Work Study increase 12%, from $139.2 in school, helps 5.7 million _and Supplemental Educatian tni:llion to $15S million. This children, 1.3 million less than in \Opportunity Grants will have includes an increase for un- 1!)80.. Fonner . Educat~on an extra $20 million slotted for dergraudates~ who would have Secretary Terril Eell calls on New York. The Perkins Loans $4.5 million more for science, tile government to allot $20 and Student Incentive engineering and mathematics billion ill- the progtam alone. .pFograms are two of the education. Yet, the proposal · This is the app11oximate amount programs scheduled for would decrease research · tbat the Administration is in- elimination; New York wllllose funding hy $:3 million which vesting in all of education in the $24 million from these two cuts provides· graduate research 1989fiscalyeai. News Analysis: Sharpton Exploiting Tawana ·Brawley Case For P·ersonal Gain Continued from page 2 and I Didn't ])() It,\ and more happened to Tawana Brawley Tawlma's mysteriously showed recently, \I'm Not From and. what she said happened are up in a locker at school, nearly Dutchess County and I Didn't two very different things, brand new, after they became Do It Either.'' Rev. AI Sharpton especially since I live in Out- part of the evidence needed to has caused co11ntless cases of chess;. County and am more support Tawana's claim. unrest to draw attention to this familiar with the issue, but I do · case which is becoming less feel rorry for her. She is being Regardless of whether or not credible by the moment. His ex:ploited to enhance the Tawana is lying, the real abuse . methods have done little to help car.eers of Rev. AlSharpton and tltat is .happening is to the the case, and if anything at all, her attorneys. Ifthemedia were residents of Dutchess County. hurt Tawana's chance at to totally ignore Rev. Sharpton, News media who nave ab- seeking justice. The protests led thell this case would come to a solutely no idea what Dutchess by Sharpton have included c~nclusion a lot sooner. C<lunty is like have paralleled it · · mostly New York City residents Racially motivated violence is to the ·south in the sixties. because no o11e in Dutchess totally unacceptable, but even Blllllper stickers have been County will support him. this rnust be solved -through selling like hot cakes that say, normal legal channels if we can 'I'm from Dutchess County I tend to think that what ever expect an end. •. Security Seeks to Catch Fire Fiend ·· -CSR Students· .Protest 1 0°/o Tuition Increase · Continued from page 3 commended the residents and residential advisors of North College. Dean Wood \can 1 t sav enough\ about the cooperation of North College occupants. The RA's \have been doing a fan- tastic job working with . the residents. It's been very dif- ficult for them these past few weeks .and they have responded tremendously,\ Dean Wood explained. the fires. Paul Mantica believes that security has succeeded in determining the writer, and this individual is not directly associated with the incidents. Mantica was upset about the ad, obviously intended as a prank to make light of the situation, claiming that it just creates more confusion and further uneasiness. Mantica further stated that the ad was not fair to the students at North. and the inhabitants of North College are not amused. Some suspects are presently b~ing investigated, and Mantica has asked that any student with information which might prove useful to the on-going in- vestigation contact security. Those with information are free tC) talk openly or anonymously. The entire campus is also asked to be careful about who they admit into their dorms, and to r-eport suspicious individuals who do not -appear to belong in tl!e dorms to their RA's of to security Continued f.rom .page 3 grievances. students ar:e enrolled at CSR. All community members were invited to attend, and students were asked to miss class for the rally, unless they had a major assignment due or if there was an exam that day. F.aculty were asked not to penalize those students who did IIliss class. Richard Olshak, Inscape's editor-in-chief, was reported saying, ''We have had talks with several faculty mem- bers· ... Althought we may not have full faculty support. I do feel that we are offering the faculty a number of ways to support us, and I believe we'll see an excelle11t response.\ · A personal ad which ap- peared in last week's Con- cordiensis was suspected as being linked to the instigator of While there is a possibility that the fires were merely a prank, Mantica, Dean Wood, Approximately 200 students attended the rally Monday which was held from 2:.30 to 5:30 p.m. on the CSR .campus in downtown Close to 1,500 Today and tomorrow the Union. College's Board of Tmstees will be meeting to pass :the ,finalized IJroposed budget which calls for an.ll %increase ill tuition and a 10.5% increase overall (tuition, room, and ATTENTION- UNDERCLASSMEN (Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors) Committee members are being appointed by the C.O.C. for the 1988-1989 school years. Applica1ions are due on April 18, 1988 in Mrs. Marra's office at 4:30. The following committees are being selected. 1. Academic Affalts Council: matters &f concern to the athletic program, including intercollegiate athletic programs, club sports, intramural and recreational programs, women's programs, and instruction in athletic skills and sports; 2 positions available. 7~ Committee on Committees: Monitors events and actions of all college committees and clubs, performs the selection process tor all student committees; 1 position available. · .,. This committee works with· students, faculty and the administration in monitoring the · 8. 'Film Com'!llttee: . . . academic climate of the college; 3 positions . Plans and tmplements college_ film program available. dunng. the school year; 2 Cha1rmen and 3 executtve. rrrembers. 2. Academic Computing Sub-council: This committee studies the needs of students with regards to computing and the needs of the Computer Center to better serve the students; 3 positions available. · 3. Admissions Llason Committee: This committee works with the administration and admissions office in determining the College~s policies on student admission; 2 positions available. 4. Conduct Committee: Handles all matters concerning Student Conduct on the campus; 1 Chairman and 7 Members. 5. Concert Committee: Decides which bands will play for campus wide events, such as Winter Fest· and Campus Union; 2 Chairmen and ~ executive members. 9. Finance Committee: Responsible for distributing all student activ.ilies funds to college clubs and committees; 3 positions available. 10. Human Subjects ·committee: Responsible for determining whether researcll .involving students as subjects be approve<l; 1 position available. - 11. Research and Grant Committee: Reviews all IEF application and decides who will receive the grants; 1 position available. 12. P.lanrilng and Priorities Committee: Long-range planning of the college involving financial implications, institutional changes and aU non-academic issues; 3 positions available. 6. Athletic Llason Committee: 13. Social Comm.lttee: of the actlvilies the Director of Athletics on all · Plans and 1 '\'\'''...,\ 1 C! sponsored for the student body; 2 Chairmen, 3 executive members. 14. Social Alternatives Committee: Acts as an ·offshoot of the social committee in prov'id ing another source of social activity for the campus: 1 Chairman and 4 executive members. 15. S.peakers Board: Responsible for selecting alld contracting speakers of all types for campus entertainment and information; 2 Chairmar1 and 3 executive members. 16. Student Affairs Council: Reviews and recommends policies to Student Housing, Dining Serv.ices, the College Center., Health Services, the Counseling Services, Career Counseling alld Placement, Student Conduct, Fraternities and Sororities, and the Student Forum; 3 positions available. 17. Stanc;llng af Students Committee: Reviews the records of students .earning Jess than a satisfactory term av~rage. This committee also deals with. student·peiitions for readmission, graduation requirements, and academic standing in general; 3 positions availabl(!. 18.. Student Grounds · eomrn lttee: Student committee to deal with concerns relating 10 residence halls, campos buildings, and the campus grounds; 4positions avail~ble. 19. Student Traff-Ic Appeals Committee: ihis Committee allows students to contest, in front of peers, traffic vlolatlonsj 3 positions •

• CONCORDIENSIS, A.f'ri1 14, 1988' Page S Talk. -of the Town Ph()tos and Interviews by Stan Kitzinger \Probably Dukakis, hopefuly Cuomo, if ·net Bosh will blow Dukakis out of the water. But I hate George Bu$1\1 ~uld all Republicans;\ Robert Koonce, Assi.stant Oean of Admissions, Class of '86~ \I think it'll be Sara Shaw. Because ·Of· her ball-handling skills .. She could definately sink George Bush.\ Mary O'Sullivan '88 Pay No Attention To This · By JIM MANLEY Chances are )'C>U will not even read this article, just getting this far .puts y()U, the reader, in the vast minority of the people who pick. up tllis ,paper. In fact the only article I can ever remember having any sizable comment on was when I used the headline, ''Suzanne Vega eats a live rat on stage,\ and even then people got no further than the first few lines. While this may appear to be a per- sonal gripe ~eoltlll1n, which I. think I'm entitled to anyway, my point is something far more disconcerting. As Ameticalls we like to think that ·.we are very informed about the worl~ around us. Satellite hookllps · and live television bringtlle whole world into our livillg room with a simple flip of a switch. In ad- dition, we have a free press that allows us to purvey magazines and articles fr()rn every side of the political and ideological spectrum. These are great advantages to be sure, and one .can see the reason why my puny little articles are continually passed over. In fact, if this abundance of information were responsible for my anonymity I would not feel compelled to write. However, I do not see tbe connection. 'rhe problem is quite the rev4:!rse, Americans have no pati-ence, and as a country we dEV()Ur a piece of every pie without ever taking a l()Ok at what remains. Images flash across the te · wision screen,Jaminated photo .. fill tbe pages of slick. magazines, and our 'national11ewspaper' slaps stories together so as to leave room for Don Johnson's latest fling .. These criticisms are not new, but at the same time there is n() evidence ·Of improvement. In order to chastise such · a pop culture or ethic requires a medium -from which to address your· grievances. Small magazines; or college newspapers for that matter, hardly seem an .effective yehicle to effect large scale change, and s1> the . vtcious circle grows. 'Wi,t~ no checks on itself our media ·forces news- makers to u\te . or die by the ~~me standard that they have adopted. To .see· this· one need look no further than the current pt=esidential ·campaign. Mug shots with pigs and funny hats are the norm for the candidates, as they leok for any opportunity to gain the all important feature of 'name recognition.; Even debates regress i_nto a series of one liners and quips intended for use on a three minute evening news segment. The days of policy and conviction are being replaced by personal image and tbe current tide of popularity. Americans have · ·been watching an exciting horse race for the past few months, and each new primary opens up new speculation. It is absolutely remarkable that it seems necessary to remind the voting public that the 'winner' of this race will lead our nation into the '90s. In writing this article I know I am as guilty. of some of these same short cuts to information as anyone. The cause of it seems to stem from a general lack of inte[\est in our own a£- r fairs. Americans seem bored by issues of budget deficits and trade figures ·no matter how disastrous their results may be. A national ennui coupled with a media that ls more than happy to accommodate this type of attitude looms as a real danger to the future of this country. Conviction is not something to be picked up in a day, nor is it something that can be forced on another. It is, instead, .an at- titude that evidences an interest in the human struggle and a desire for the world to be a tolerable place to raise children in. How then is it possible to revitalize. a .static culture? The media obvi()usly has a role to play in taking in depth looks at problems of our times, and translating their importance to us as citizens of the world. Education is another means, by creating all attitude of im- portance i11 the outside en- vironment, and · encouraging detailed, analysis of tbe events we take in.every day. The whole concept takes effort, and a proof that it is necessa.ry before any changes WiU take place. Let's hope that this .proof is not too painful, and the 'effort' not too :great. [ mean if you can make it through. this article, nothing canbe that bad. FEATURES . . . Concordi~n~is recently asked: Wha: do you think will get the Democ.ratie nomination and what are his/her realistic chances against Bush? \It'll be Dukakis. Jesse wouldn't make 'it through the ,first year. But ,jf it were between Bush and t:he Dole, . l~d just as soon VC>te for Mickey Mouse.\ Je.ff Berkowitz. '88 \Dukakis will win the Democratic race, but we don't. think he has a chance :against Bush.\ Jackie Czech, '89 Marla Leonard, '89 West College Ce II Block 755 - Living In West BySUSANMNNEL Editors Note: · Over the· follo,ving weeks Concordiensis will be,reviewing the donns in order to'il.elp make your selection ~sier. Good Luck. We asked West residents what they thought about living In West. Here's what they liked: \The convenienc~ of having the dining hall anc:l the Pub downstairs so you c~11 just roll out of bed and go eat.\ \the furniture's all new and there are rugs ... tlle walls don't look grungy.\ \As. an uppercla~smen, it has helped me to g:et to know freshmen who l otherwise wouldn't have met.\ \I like the social life West offers. When I havE tQ study the noise makes it ha.rcl to con- centrate but I'd r·ather put up with the noise thanha-ve a dead floor.\ ''I like when the flUYS rugby teams runs througll. \ \It's more than ju.st a place to sleep .. .there's a re~l sense of family here.'' \It's co-ed\ \Sex Drugs and Rock and Roll.\ \I think West is the dorm to (.,V\ 'fll~f 'o~~ t>~ iau1. li\7e ill if you wish to observe th;at man is esentially a social al!imal. The atmosphere is friendly, energetic and open. Th~re is always S()mething hc-J>pneing, someone blowing. off wmrk in the hall. Laughter s~ems to be rule for enjoying life here.\ \it's THE PLACE to live.\ \Having my boyfriend live ri~ht upstairs.'' 'But here'-s what they didn't like: \I lived off campus last year a11d vnce you get a taste of freedcm, you want it all the time. West is too re,~trictive.\ ~~west does tend to get a little wild, and it isn't just as con- dmsivoe to accomplishing any · w-CJrk. Vandalism, also, is · cmstant and disturbing.\ '~The room next to the kitchen ve11ts smell SO BAD.\ \I don't like having the area COI)rd.inator right downstairs, so she can break up 'small gatherings'.\ ''\Doing eveything in the same · to~m,I like suites better. •• ''\By Sunday night the bathrooms are disgusting.\ '\There is a really smelly guy W'h«> lives right across the hall.\ \Since Paul Simon dropped out I th1nk my choice would • be Art Garfunkel and maybe Dukak~is as an outside .. possibility.\ Mike Weiss, '89 A Gift from The Heart ByLORILESHER In Fox Lounge, betwi!en April 2Q-22, there won't be anyone watching Days of Our Lives or General Hospital, not even Oprah; April 20 -22 is Union's Spring Term Blood Drive. The Re~ CrQSS will be using the lounge during the hours of 11: 00 a.m. to ~: 00 p.m. for donor convenie11ce. Human blood has no sub- stitute; every donation helps to save lives. That should be reason enough to consider giving bl()od. If you are between the ages of 17-65, weigh at least 110 lbs., and are in good health, you can donate blood. People over 65 y:rs. old are evaluated by a nurse to see if they may donate. For those of you w~o still need s<lrne convincing, here are some facts to elear up any miscon- ceptions y-ou might stillhaave: -·\I d·on't have the time.\ The total process (from '~registration through refreshments\) takes only an hour. If there is a group of people going at the same time, the wait might be a little longer. - \I donated last time, so I can't donate again for awhile.\ You may donate as often as every 8 weeks, and, you guessed it, the last blood drive was over 8 :weeks qgo! - \I have too much to do tr be weak all day.\ After donating blood and having \something to drink to replace the fluid lost,\ you can go about your normal activities. - \Wbat about AID8-\ You cannot get AIDS, or any other infectious disease through donating blood. For each donor, a new, sterile needle is used. Giving bltOod is a perfectly safe pr()cedure. There, you're all convinced, rights! Trus blood drive is being sp()nsord by the brothers of S1gma Chi, Phi Ganuna Delta. and Psi Upsilon, and by the women of Bronner House. If you would like to make an ap- pointme!lt you can call the appropriate fraternity representative or drop in when you have smile free time. TUNE IN TO 89.7 FM FOR THE: WRlJC EDITORIAL MONDAY, WEDNESDAY AND FRIDAY EVENINGS \ ' ' ' '' '' \' \ ·, \• \' 'i I '. '• \ . 1 i I . ' I : .i ' ! f . I {. ''

Page. 6 FEATUR.ES. CONCORDJENSJS, April 14, 1?88 Phi Sigma Kappa Paints the ~ . Schenectady Day Care Center 1 1 ~ s: • • By MARK HAUGH'rON • ~ •. Features Editor ~ • • The brothers and pledges of ~ . Phi: Sigma Kappa painted and ~ refurbished the · interior of the • ·• Schenectady Day Care Center fn ; on Saturday April 9th. 'The task S • · consisted of spackling and ~ • • painting three f_loors of the Out to Eat With Hersh and Robe :. center. The ent1~e day was snent with hard work and goad fun. Soon the center was to be inspected by tbe State of New Yo,rk. They would definately not passed the inspection if there had b~en paint chips throughout the building. If the inspection was failed the center would have been required to Close at the loss to the children. There a1·e no paint chips left and the center looks great. By ANDIREW HERSHAFTand B:ILLROBBINS China P'a\Vilion Restaurant For a change of pace, we dedde<l to try a Chinese restaurant this week. We had heard tihat the China Pavilion, located Gin. the Wolf Road ex- tension• fin Latham, has ex .. cellentffooOd. It was also reputed . to hav~· :an especially nice at- mospher.e. Upl)n entering, it is obvious that tn e decor of the China Pavilion is unlike that found in most Clll nese restaurants. It is large ( seating 160} and elegar:i!Jy-:decorated, with a sort of pea cti1 coloring and soft lighting;. Thoughtful touches about~.Lnllluding especially nice carpets., decorative plates with matchlmg tea kettles, and lovely wood ,fllrniture imported from Tennes:see. The owner, who also has tW'o restaurants in Con- necticut, obviously paid great attentimn. to detail and spent a lot oE.,srne. and .. money In con .. verting ,~hat was once a diner to .its Jl! ... e;sentform. · _. The Pavilion's menu, con- sisting primarily of Hunan and Szecilw-a11 dishes, with some Cant!Jiltese, is both extensive · and orrrg;inal. All the familiar Chinese dishes are offered, as well as pleri~y for the daring to ex:perirntmt with. For appetizers, we shared boiled dmmplings and teriyaki beef :;tjekes, at $4.25 and $3.75 respectiwely. The six dumplings were large and tender, and definitel::y better than usual. The fi)Ut pfteees of beef, each served on a srtill({ with pineapple and cherry., ;were simply ex:cellent. The 'WCJDderful teriyaki flavor went a.ll the way through the meat, and heating them on the burner tllat came with the dish brouglttthds out even further. ·We ·'r\VLshM we had a larger group in cm:ler to sample more from the menu. After some haggling,, we decided on Sun Shien Sizzling-.Worba ( $13.95 }, a Cantonese dish, and crispy Sesame Beef, far $11:95. The first dish was a mixture of shrimp, roast pork and chicken, with garden greens and sizzling rice in a hot pan. It wa~ plen- tiful, delicious and perfectly flavored, without being too spicy. Our second choice, described in the menu as \a delicate and remarkable Hunan dish,\ consisted of prime beef dipped in \lotus flour,\ fried and cooked in sesame sauce. The morsels of beef, covered · with sesame seeds, had a unique sweet taste. This flavor, which we enjoyed at first, later seemed almost too sweet, even syrupy, I felt. Served with the dish was a beautiful radish garnishment in the shape of a flower. The China Pavilion has a special chef who sole purpose is for creating such decorations. We .finished our meals with fortune· .codkies..' . .and .orange sherbet, the ~mly flavor: offered; , both were rather ordinary; The service was generally quick and efficient, with a few small lapses, perhaps caused by mix- ups between the two people attending us. The China Pavilion is a class act, yet somewhat expensive. Based on our 1-10 point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave it an 8 1/2 and Hersh rateditan 8. China Pavilion Restaurant 256 Wolf Road Latham, NY 8694624 869-4625 Maj'or credit cards accepted Reservations suggested price, with tax, before tip: $41.55 Brothers Zambias1, P paint. . The Brothers gather around the Sche:nectady Oay Care Center. j' SPRING TERM PHONATHON Talk on the Phone ... Dinner Provided ... Cash Prizes .•• What Could-Be Better? Enter your team today! Sheets at .Info. Booth DATES: APRIL-17-18 APRIL24-25 Hall House Dining Room 5:30 - 9:30 ptn Skiing On Grass ByC\?NTHIA P ANTAZIS & 'NARK HAUGHTON Tile ..vee)tend of April 1st, apJlrQ(Priately April Fools Day, we sell; m1.1t to utilize the last of the 11at:ural snow skiing. Our destination was the Wl- pretelltlous slopes of Mad River Glen im n<lrthern Vermont. You may h:a11e seen the bumper sti~kel' . del<ning \SKI IT IF YOU CAN.\ Mad River is better k:n!()wn to those Vermont We~ who Freek(quently) desc~nll its slopes. Many of tllese Vermonters are telenu:u~kers or telemarketers as the:y a:re known by the local clan all«i have a high opinion of the dlfflcnl.ty of the arta,and are more th!an willing to- warn those wllo llo ·not take Mad River's advertising Uterany. . By the way, Al)ril is mud season! As vre cased out the con- d.iti()llS :from afar we noticed a, few bare spots that stood out but in general the trails seemed skiable; so we ·began our ascent. There were no lines, perhaps an early warning, so we found a comfortable seat on the rustic, wooden, 1949 single chair lift on it's way to the summit. Our attention was diverted from the trails, par- tially by the solitude of the lift and partially by the beauty of the mountains. If one could bare to stretch their necks in an owl like fashion they would see the \hump\ of Camel's Hump, the back side of Stowe, and through the haze the high peaks of the Presidentials. Twelve and a half minutes later our single shuttles deposited us at the top where we gazed west -over lake Cham- plain at the Adirondacks. It was time to descend. As everyone knows, it is the object of most skiers to reach the bottom i1J one piece; this held true for one of us. The first half of our first run was snow ccvered and successful. However, a couple of shushes later we suffered form premonitioiiS cf severe and possibly fatal catastrophe. Our experiment of frictional coefficients was in ftill swing. The ski~snow .coefficient of friction was detetmilled to be far lower than the Ski-r.ock, dirt, grass, streams, cliffs, closed trail signs, Uft tower, other skiers, coefficient of frictwn. Understanding that there were far too many variables in our experiment we ''ski\' scientists\ must learn to adapt to such conditions; easier said than done. \GO STRAIGHT, .iUST GO STRAIGHT!!\ I stood anxiously awaiting the moans and curses that ac- companied the fitst disaster. \A tremor begatl oo develop in my legs as my :Speed in- creased. My ~kies went into a fiat spin . while tbe slush swallowed first my skies then bindings, boots, ankles and that was it. My remaining body was then whipped face first into snow, commmily known as a whopper face plant,. and I proceeded toskid further away from the point of impact. All along I was examining the new variable in our experiment the face-snow c<fefficient of fric- tion. This was one of those ski- ripping, hat snatching, face grinding crashes that one might see in a Warren Miller Film. As my better half descended to the rescue I noticed tnat the thick venire of slush overlaid a thicker venire of rock. For me my (Jecision :was made, T~ LODGE!! Not aU was lost for It was a sunny $eventy degree day .in which one could grab many rays if not many l'WlS.\ Stories . Continued on next page

Page 6 FEATURES Legal Brief 2.8 million given to NYU School of Law A $2.8 million anonymous gift to the New York Univeristy School of Law will establish the nation•s first program fucu1;1ing solely on Philanthropy and the law. The gift, announced by Norman Redlich, Dean of the School of Law, is tne largest ever received by the school for program development. The new seven~year grant is the Gutcome of a recently completed tw{) year, $100~000 Study on Law and Philanthropy at the School of Law, funded by the same anonymous donor, and directed by Profesor Harvey P. Dale, who will also direct the new program. · \The C()ncept of private giving ·is a deeply rooted American tradition,\ said NYU President John Brademas. ·'This extremely generous gift will permit the New York University Law School to bring its special expertise to bear on the range .of legal issues af~ fecting philanthropy in tills country. We are grateful to our anony:rn~ms benefactor for creating this landmark progranJ,.\ Accprding to Dean Redlich: \While a number qf university¥ based programs and centers study and teach about phUantbropyt .. New York University 1 s will be the first in the country to fneus entirely on the legal aspects of philan,. tbropy!' The $2.8 million gift will suppm\t activities. in five areas: 1) Research .. inJ;:~l:uding_grants . to NYU law faculty, memberS for scholarly research~ ·funds for -·research aS&istantsi · . fellowships forothe:b[!chobu'.s~ · 2)- The· establishment' al' the ·law sehoul liblilry of a com .. prehensive collecUon of .books and periodicals dealing with philanthropy and the law. 3) Conferences and symposia to diseuss critical legal issues affecting the non-profit sector, 4) Pu:blieations, including the preparation ot a n~wsletter. 5) Curriculum developement, including oourse offerings the School of Law and preparation and publication of ma~erials for teaching Law · · ·· Pbilaintflropy, · \The laW$ governing the · profit sector hiive inct~singly e.,.u· m. e.·. under. >·th·e···s· ·ern. , thl·\ ... Y·. · ·o···f·Ia·· w.·••. · makers and legal Stllialarsl\ Pr-ofessor Dale$id.· ••Qaestmns about the · · · ·. role CONCORDIENSJS, April 14, 1988 ~ ]~ !L ~ ~ ~ 8 >- CD 0 0 ·~ 5: Out to Eat With Hersh and Rob·e By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS China Pavilion Restaurant For a change of pace, we decided to try a Chinese restaurant this week, We had heard that the China Pavilion, located on the Wolf Road ex- tension in Latham, has ex- cellent food. It was also reputed to have- an especially nice at- mosphere. Upon entering, it is obvious that the decor of the China Pavilion is unlike that found in most Chinese restaurants. It is large ( seating 160) and elegantly decorated, with a sort of peach coloring and soft lighting. Thoughtful touches about, including especially nice carpets, decorative plates with matching tea kettles, and lovely wood furniture imported from Tennessee. The owner, who also has two restaurants in Con- necticut, obviously paid great attention to detail and spent a lot of time and money in con- verting what was once a diner to Hs present form. The Pavilion's menu, con- sisting primarily of Hunan and Szechwan dishes, with some Cantonese, is both extensive and original. All the familiar Chinese dishes are offered, as well as plerity for the daring to experiment with. For appetizers, we shared boiled dumplings and teriyaki beef stickes, at $4.25 and $3.75 respectively. The six dumplings were large and tender, and definitely better than usuaL The four pieces of beef, each served on a stick with pineapple and cherry, were simply excellent. The wonderful teriyaki flavor went aU the way through the meat, and heating them on the burner that came with the dish brought this out even further. We wished we had a larger group in order to sample more from the menu. After some haggling, we decided on Sun Shien Sizzling Worba ~ $13.951, a Cantonese dish, and crispy Sesame Beef, for $11,95. The first dish was a mixture of shrimp, roast pork and chicken, with garden greens and sizzling rice in a hot pan. It was plen- tiful, delicious and perfectly flavored, without being too spicy. Our second choice, described in the menu as \a delicate and remarkable Hunan dish,\ consisted of prime beef dipped in ''lotus flour,\ fried and cooked in sesame sauce. The morsels of beef, covered with sesame seeds, had a unique sweet taste. This flavor, which we enjoyed at first, later seemed almost too sweet, even syrupy, I felt. Served with the dish was a beautiful radish garnishment in the shape of a flower. The China Pavilion has a special chef who sole purpose is for creating such decorations. We finished our meals with fortune cookies and orange sherbet, the only flavor offered; both were rather ordinary. The service was generally quick and efficient, with a few small lapses, perhaps caused by mix- ups between the two people attending us. The China Pavilion is a class act, yet somewhat expensive. Based on our 1-10 point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave it an 8 1/2 and Hersh rated it an 8. China Pavilion Restaurant 256 Wolf Road Latham, NY 369-4624 369-4625 Major credit cards accepted Reservations suggest~d price, with tax, before tip: $41.55 Phi Sigma Kappa Paints the Schenectady Day Care Center Ry MARK HAUGHT()N Features Editor Tile brothers and pleciges of Ptli Sigma Kappa painteci and refurllished the interior of the Scho€nectady Day Care Cemter on Saturday April 9th. The task consisted of spackling and painting three floors of the ceflter. The entire day was SLleJnt with hard wor]~ and good fun. Soon the center was to be inspected by the State of New York. They would definately not passed the j,nspection if there had been paint chips throughout the building, If the inspection was failed tae center would have been required to close at the loss to the children. There are no paint chips left and the center looks great. l:lrothers Zambiasi, Pledge Curry, and Alum Cassidy spread the §:Jain!. BE Brothers gather around the Schenectady Day Care Center. SPRING TERM PHONATHON Talk on the Phone ... Dinner Provided ... Cash Prizes ... What Could Be Better? Enter your team today! Sheets at Info. Booth DATES: APRIL 17-18 APRIL 24-25 Hall House Dining Room 5:30- 9:30 pm Skiing On Grass By CYNTHIA PANTAZIS & MARK HAUGHTON The weekend of April 1st, appropriately April Fools Day, we set out to utilize the last of the natural snow skiing. Our destination was the un- pretentious slopes of Mad River Glen in northern Vermont. You may have seen the bumper sticker delaring \SKI IT IF YOU CAN.\ Mad River is better known to those Vermont hicks who Freek( quently) descend its slopes. Many of these Vermonters are telemarket·s or telemarketers as they are known by the local clan and have a high opinion of the difficulty of the area and are more than willing to warn those who do not take Mad River's advertising literally. By the way, April is mud season! As we cased out the con· ditions from afar we noticed a few bare spots that st()od out but in general the trails seemed skiable; so we began our ascent. There were no lines, perhaps an early warning, so we found a comfortable seat on the rustic, wooden, 1949 single chair lift on it's way to the summit. Our attention was diverted from the trails, par- tially by the solitude of the lift and partially by the beauty of the mountains. If one could bare to stretch their necks in an owl like fashion they would see the \hump\ of Camel's Bump, the back side of Stowe, and through the haze the high peaks of the Presidentials. Twelve and a half minutes later our single shuttles deposited us at the top where we gazed west over lake Cham- plain at the Adirondacks. It was time to descend. As everyone knows, it is the object of most skiers to reach the bottom in o11epiece; this held true for one of 1.1s. The first half of our first rm was snow colfered and sl!ccessful. However, a couple of shushes later we suffered For:m premonitions ()f severe a11d IJOssibly fatal catastrophe. ()ur experiment ()f frictional Cl()e£ficients was in fttll swing. 'rhe ski-snow coefficient of friction was detenni11ed to be far lower than the sk.i-rock, dirt, grass, streams, cliffs, closed tra]! signs, lift tower, other sidEis, coefficient of friction. lJn<lerstanding th~t there were far too many variables in Olli experiment ,we ''ski- scie!ltists\ must leam ro adapt to s11ch conditions; easier said tha.n done. \GO STRAIGHT, J11JBT GO STRAIGHT! ! \ I sto()[J anxiously awaiting the moe~ns and curses that ac- CflOOpanied the first disaster. '\A tremor began to develop in Illy legs as my speed in- creased. My skies went into a flat spin while the slush swallowed first my skies then bindings, boots, ankles and that was it. My remaining body was then whipped face first into snow, comrncnly known as a whopper face plant, and I proceeded to skid further away from the point of impact. All along I was examining the new variable in our experiment the face-snow coefficient of fric- tion. Tbis was one of those ski- ripping, hat snatching, face grinding crashes that one might see in a Warren Miller Film. As my better half descended to the rescue I noticed that the thick venire of slu.'!h overlaid a thicker venire of rock. For me my decision was made, THE LODGE! ! N()t all was lost for it was a sunny seventy degree day in which one could grab many rays if not many runs.\ Stories Contlnuad on next page N 1- ~ ::.:: a: w CD >- w a: u.. LL w ' 1Ii 8 Q 0:::

CONCORDIENSISJ April 14 1988 . . . .. , Page.7 Get Up 3nd Get Out of Bed By SUSAN SHAFFER Features Editcr In ail the years that I have hadto wake tip early for class, I 'have yet to come in contact with five people who have no problems getting out of bed. My roommates these past two years and myself have often found this to be one of the most difficUlt tasks of the day. School is just not conducive to getting the ,proper amount of sleep and this is what makes morning wake up seem. so harsh. Last term l was plagued with 9;00 classes every day. Rarely did . I g~t up when the alarm. went off. Bless the person who invented the snooze ala.rm; just after nne whack on the magic bar one is left with ten minutes of blissful sleep. Usually, however, one will whack it six times before panicking over a preswned _ rp:issed class. Six whacks will make one an hour late .fer those of you who are too tired to figure that out. For those who think they're clever, they will set their alarm to go off an hour earlier than usual. This plan often leads to twelve whacks and another late start. A known trick for getting out of bed is to place the clock ()n the other side of the room. Another $1:rategy that belps me _is to increase the volwne · of the alann. This shakes .one up, however, and it leads to an unhealthy heart rate. One's biological clock allows {()f a pleasant wake-up, :however, one is not equipped with a biological snooze alarm. ln ·order to set your biolO'gical clcck you just have to picture the present time on your dock in your mind, then three times ilpagine the clock changing to tile time in which you wi.:sh to wake up while repeat-ing to yourself, \I will wake up at- :()0.\ Amazingly enough you should wake up at that time and it is a lot less agitating than a loud buzzer. The best answer for an easy 'Wl!ke up is, of course, getting more sleep. However, that is an idealistic view for the college student. Even when we are able t() fulfill our responsibilities by an early hour, the only time one bas for themselves is after midnight. We would sacrifice this time in order to sleep, but ... yawn ... well, maybe. ~hot- 15 0 ?iCI<. hOUndS kwon\-e. c.:Jnn~:, ? f\OH!<RB 1 II. tot I . I _ _£, T Cr 5 U E L G- OJf/JlfQL_] Skiing On Grass Continued from page 6 to follow from the better half. I, the other I, hooked up with some old time friends, one of which was now a fighter pilot, the \Top Gun\ type, and we ascended .for some torturous runs on the upper half of the moguled mountain. I should have be-en warned of the mentality that fol' 'WS the fighter pilot type. The Shoot; one of the mogul lined, steep trails that descends directly under the. lift arid directly through the lift towers was the trail to ski. Ample snow cover, soft topped moguls and many crazed maniacs ac- counted for the composition of the traiL On my second run down I had .a close encounter with. ()De of the unyielding green lift towers. From my per- spective my recovery was impressive, from my fighter pilot friend's perspective, I should try agairi but try to get more of that green paint to rub off on my back. I'd had it by now and was ready to go to the bottom and pick up my rested halffor one last mellow run. The last \mellow\ run· ha . . , ' we should have known. Two .face plants later, a brush with a tree and a brush with some brush and that was alL My rested half was threw, no pun intended. I would meet her later back at the house as I was in- structed. So I grabbed the camera and headed for the top to capture some of the .beauty,of a trail entitled Paradise before the sunset. Later we would laugh at the events of the day .as we have done while writing this article. Remember, spring skiing is fun! ! ... FEATUR.ES Standing l-R: Maur,fce Kauff, Jennifer Vachon; Bruce Hopkins, Steven Rock, Kevin Ireland Kath Ny~us, R. Reed Whidden, Jay Rechtweg, Mary Jo Connelly. ' S1~t1n.g l-R: ~ate Kaplan, Stephanie Jaryna; Kristen Ryan, Kevin Decker, Wendy Endress. Mlssm~: Cra1g Summers Getting Ready for U By MARJORIEHOFFER Features E!litor Although Union's class of 1992 is not completely decided upon, the Orientation Committee is already making su:re that next year's class will start off at Union on the right track. With many pl'Ojects well under way the committee's workhasjust begWJ. The fifteen members of Orientation Conimittee are responsible for making slll'e every aspect of Orientati()n runs smoothly. The Conunittee is engaged in_ ac- tivities that rang~ ·from in- terviewing .and selecting the 60 Orientation advisors; to making certain that all 550 freshman packets are complete with the Courses Bring Writing and Literature to Life SCHENECTADY, NY - Writing and literature are timeless arts and can greatly enrich our lives, whether we're making a contribution through our own writing, or enjoying someone else~s work. Non-credit courses this spring at Union College will explore ways to make y-()ur writing creative, vivid and moving. Whether you intend to begin writing a memoir, or wish to hone your skills as a freelance writer, Union's non•credit program will give a, full discussion of the techniques you'll need for SU(!cess. A literature course titled \Literary Passion: The Language of Love\ will show · through great work:s of Western literature that love is not a permanent part uf the hwnan condition, but a highly con- ventional cultural <Jreation that began in· literatur.e. The course will also raise questions about the survival of love in modem times, especially in the face of feminist criticism. The non-credit courses will coincide with the Writihg and Literature Lecture Series this spring by Union professors. The on-campus lectures will offer participants the opportunity to ask questions and discuss ideas with the professors. - 'Students who complete eight courses in the pr()gram will be awarded the ·lit-erature Cer· tificate, but partieipation is not limited to those enrolled in the certificate. program. For fwther information on the Writing and Literature programs; C()ntact Union's Office of Graduate and Con• tinuing Studies, Wells House xfi638. correct box number and registration card; an~ that e~ch name tag has the rigllt spelling; and even to other fine details such <;~s obtaining helilllll for the balloons. However, one of the most difficult tasks is· coming up with a schedule for Orien- tation that will be as com- . prehensive as possible towards fUlfilling the goals of Orien- tation. According to ·Stephanie Jarnya, '89, the co-chair of the Orientation Committee for the secend year, the plli'pose of Orientation is \to push the fxcesbman in the right direction at Union. We want thE freshman to reali2e how much is available to them at Union. We welcome them to become involved. Also, it's important that tile freshmen are exposed to Union's requirements, an~ that they begin to think about long range goals. Naturally, the freshmen are not expected to know everything by th-e end of Orientation, but we hope that towards the end of fcur days that they feel comf~rtable.\ . It's difficult to imagine the amount of time and energy the Conunittee puts into Orien- tation. These are a group of people who know wh~t it is like to labor on Labor Day. But, the time is all well spent. For Kevin Decker '90, the new co-chair of · Ol\'ientation Collllllittee, states that ''Planning Orientation is a lot of hard work. But people really appreciate it. During Odentation, you feel a sense of accomplis.hmen t when everyone is enjoying them- selves.. It's great to see everything coming true.\ Although the members of Or'ientation Committee are working hard securing the detailsfot0rientation1992, a lot of success d Orientation depends upon th& commitment of the Orientation Advisors. Ethusiastic .OA's are in:- strumental in. encouraging freshmen participation in the activities. For~ as .the chairmen agree, ··'we C()llld plan the best scbeduleever, b11tif a freshman jliSt sits in his ()r her donn room all the time, then Orientation is not a success.'' Beth Stephanie an-d Kevin encCJurage anyone wi1h a sincere interest in Orientation to apply for the pomtion of Orientation Advisor. They are looldng forward to a lar-ge and diverse .applicant polll. Kevin and Stephanie also state that the oonunittee is very receptive t«l everyone's input and ideas. Meanwhile, to the future. class of 1!192 ... You don't know what's waiting for you! Students record shopping on Tuesday. MACY*S OF COLONIE PR:ESENTS BENEFIT SHOPPING DAY! Macy•s is closing their store to the public on Tuesday, May 24, from 9am-9 prn and opening it to those who vvi II help Cerebral Paley of Schenectady and other lil<ln·profit orgar~izations by pur- chasing a ticket to t.he event. Ticket's are only $5.00 ~ach which · will entitle you to an exciting day of entertainment, contests, refreshments special gifts, special sales, and two discount cou- pons (20% and 10%) off any single items purchased on that day. If you have any <Juestions or would like to help, please contact Kristine Beebe or Christine Glynn 37()-1822. ., ,I '\ : '~ ', t

CONCORDIENSIS, April 14, 1988 Page 7 : == Get Up and Get Out of Bed By SUSAN SHAFFER Features Editor In all the years that I have had to wake up early for class, I have yet to come in contact with five people who have no problems getting out of bed. My roommates these past two years and myself have l'>ften found this to be one of the most difficult tasks of the day. School is just not conducive to getting the proper amount of sleep and this is what makes morning wake up seem so harsh. Last term I was plagued with 9:00 classes every day. Rarely did I get up when the alarm went off. Bless the person who invented the snooze alarm; just after one whack on the magic bar one is left with ten minutes of blissful sleep. Usually, however, one will whack it six times before panicking over a presumed missed class. Six whacks will make one an hour late for those of you who are to·o tired to figure that out. For those who think they're clever, they will set their alarm to go off an hour earlier than usual. This plan often leads to twelve whacks and another late start. A known trick for getting out of f --1 ----- .. ·--·· L ___ j _l__[ bed is to place the clock on the other side of the room. Another strategy that helps me is to increase the volume of the alarm. This shakes one up, however, and it leads to an unhealthy heart rate. One's biological clock allows for a pleasant wake-up, however, one is not equipped with a biological snooze alarm. ln order to set your biological clock you just have to picture the present fime on your clock in yaur mind, then three times imagine the clock changing to the time in which you wish to wake up while repeating to yoarself, \I will wake up at - :00.\ Amazingly enough you should wake up at that time and it is a lot less agitating than a loud buzzer. The best answer for an easy wake up is, of course, getting more sleep. However, that is an idealistic view for the college student. Even when we are able to fulfill oar responsibilities hy an early hour, the only time one has for themselves is after midnight. We would sacrifice this time in order to sleep, but ... yawn ... well, maybe. __ R !_ G- 5 ll E L G- O'IL .. .J -- _j_j __ _/0/ _j I~ 1-\ :;, .-.£U:t -r: c IQ __ /Qj __ ·- l.- I f I A I r-&- T E._ 1 1 ur 1ol Skiing On Grass Continued from page 6 to follow from the better half. I, the other I, hooked up with some old time friends, one of which was now a fighter pilot, the \Top Gun\ type, and we ascended for some torturous runs on the upper half of the moguled mountain. I should have been warned of the mentality that foP 'WS the fighter pilot type. The Shoot; one of the mogul lined, steep trails that descends directly under the lift and directly through the lift towers was the trail to ski. Ample snow cover, soft topped moguls and many crazed maniacs ac- counted for the composition l'>f the trail. On my second run down I had a close encounter with one of the unyielding green lift towers. From my per- spective my recovery was impressive, from my fighter pil()t friend's perspective, I should try again but try to get more of that green paint to rub off on my back. I'd had it by now and was ready to go to the bottom and pick up my rested half for one last mellow run. The last \mellow\ run; ha, we should have known. Two face plants later, a brush with a tree and a brush with some brush and that was all. My rested half was threw, no pun intended. I would meet her later back at the house as I was in- structed. So I grabbed the camera and headed for the top to capture some of the beauty of a trail entitled Paradise before the sunset. Later we would laugh atthe events of the day as we have done while writing this article. Remember, spring skiing is fun! ! . rn=r wnm#!£jjjj I@ @ !!!$!$' \' \\' FEATURES t '~ ' .... \. Standing L-R: Maurice Kauff, Jenniler Vachon, Bruce Hopkins, Steven Rock, Kevin Ireland Kath Ny~us, R. Reed Whidden, Jay Rechtweg, Mary Jo Connelly. ' S1:t1n.g L-R: ~ate Kaplan, Stephanie Jaryna, Kristen Ryan, Kevin Decker, Wendy Endress. M1ss1ng: Cra1g Summers Getting Ready for U By MARJORIE HOFFER Features Editor Although Unien's class of 1992 is not completely decided upon, the Orientation Committee is already making sure that next year's class will start off at Union on the right track. With many projects well under way the committee's work has just begun. The fifteen members of Orientation Committee are responsible for making sure every aspect of Orientation runs smootllly. The Committee is engage<! in ac- tivities that range from in- terviewing and selecting the 60 Orientation advisors; to making certain that all 550 freshman packets are complete with the Courses Bring Writing and Literature to Life SCHENECTADYt NY - Writing and literature are timeless arts and can greatly enrich our lives, whether we're making a contribution through our own writingt or enjoying someone else's work. Non-credit courses this spring at Uniou College will explore ways to make your writing creative, vivid and moving. Whether you intend to begin writing a memoir, or wish to hone your skills as a freelance writer, Union's noll-credit program will give a, full discussion of the techniques you'll need for success. A literature course titled \Literary Passion: The Language of Love\ will show through great works of Western literature that love is not a permanent part of the human condition, but a highly con- ventional cultural creation that began in literature. The course will also raise questioas about the survival of love in modern times, especially in the face of feminist criticism. correct box number and registration card, and that each name tag has the right spelling; and even to other fine details such as obtaining helium for the balloons. However, one of the most difficult tasks is coming up with a schedule for Orien· tation that will be as com· prehensive as possible towards fulfilling the goals of Orien· tation. According to Stephanie Jarnya, '89, the co-chair of the Orientation Committee for the second year, the purpose of Orientation is \to push tbe freshman in the right direction at Union. We want the freshman to realize how much is available to them at Union. We welcome them to become involved. Also, it's important that the freshmen are exposed to Union's requirements, and that they begin to think about long range goals. Naturally, the freshmen are not expected to know everything by the end of Orientation, but we hope that towards the end of four days that they feel comfortable.\ It's difficult to imagine the amoWlt of time and energy the Conunittee puts into Orien· tation. These are a group of people who know what it is like to labor on Labor Day. But, the time is all well spent. For Kevin 17(\ . ' ..., ' I i ':' J 7. ~ ~: - ' ' 1 .. Decker '90, the new co-chair of Orientation Committee, states that \Planning Orientation is a lot of hard work. But people really appreciate it. During Orientation, you feel a sense ot accomplishment when everyone is enjoying them- selves. It's great to see everything coming true.\ Although the members of Orientation Committee are working hard securing the details for Or-ientation 1992. a lot of success of Orientation depends upon the commitment of the Orientation Advisors. Ethusiastic OA's are in- strumental in encouraging freshmen participation in the activities. F()r, as the chainnen agree, \We could plan the best schedule ever, but if a freshman just sits in his or her dorm room all the time, then Orientation is not a success.\ Both Stephanie and Kevin encourage anyone with a sincere interest in Orientation to apply for the position of Orientation Advisor. They are loo-king forward to a large and diverse applicant pool. Kevin and Stephanie also state that the committee is very receptive to everyone's input and ideas. Meanwhile, to the future class of 1992 ... You don't know what's waiting for you! .'{?!1&'1~ ~ Students record shopping on Tuesday. >- ::J ..J ::.:: ,.. ro 0 9 0:: The non-credit coruses will coincide with the Writing and Literature Lecture Series this spring by Union professors. The on-campus lectures will offer partidpants the opportunity to ask questions and disc11ss ideas with the professors. MACY*S OF COLONIE PRESENTS BENEFIT SHOPPING DAY! Students who complete eight courses in the program will be awarded the Literatllre Cer- tificate, but participation is not limited to those enrolled in the certificate program. For further information on the Writing and Literature programs; contact Union's Office of Graduate and Con- tinuing Studies, Wells House x6638. Macy*s is closing their store to the publican Tuesday. May 24. from 9am-9 pm and opening it to those who will help Cerebr.JI Palsy of Schenectady and other non-profit organizations by pur- chasing a ticket to the event.Tickets are only $5.00 gael, whiCh will entitle you to an excitiilg day of entertainment, contests, refreshments special gifts, special sales, and two discount cou· pons (20% and 1 0%) off any single items purchased on that day. If you have any questions or would like to halp, please co(ltact Kristine Beebe or Christine Glynn 370-1822.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, April 14, 1988 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Is There a-Solution to Terror? 'By JE~NNE DALEY In recent years, terrorism, or 5 · more appropriately, the threat V'J of terrorism, has increased ~· dramatically. In order to Und a · solution to the problem of ~ terrorism, it is necessary . to .5l understand its bows and whys. fii One might begin with a o . definition such as-- · the in .. o discriminate use of force and S: violence against innocent people as a protest against a political weapon or policy, or a means of securing a political end. Attacks are sudden, and highly publicized. Because of the so-called in~ Union Watson. Winners . crease in terrorism there has also been an increase in the attention which the issue has received and a more intense On March 14, the Thomas J. W .atson Foundation named seniors Vince Nieotina and Eddy Remy as 1!};81S Watson Fellowship recipients. FQr their efforts, they eacll received .$13,000 to travel anywhere in the world (outside North America) and do anything which interests them! Vince plans to visit Sicily and countries ringjng the Mediterranean in search of the roots of Sicilian folk mllSic. In addition to his interest in music, b.e is concerned ~Y the speed with which cultural traditions, including folk music, are being fer gotten. Eddy's proposal is in some ways similar to Vince's, with the medium of da11ce, and the NoV~riS: thlHime to be: ···· t1lafihin9' vriou t - · .. ------:·.·.:.:··· .' :· . ·.;-:.:··· .· ... .. . ···.·w4t$Qfl.· .... PROPOSAL···· ·. • . ,.niorm.ati~~~f . ··. •. ··· me~tlri~;{tb i~.R$.... · : :place Jat~?Jt:il~.'$prlrg . ·.: .appitc~it9h.s:·alr~?Y~. nexfFail'terl1t · .. - .· . :-· . ·. . .. -.·· :· . · .. For Ni.Ore tnk>nriation . . See Prof. Klefn lr\SS109 . :-... . : ~: .. - : . - . - . . . : ' . :. ;. ·-:. ···:···.·-: setting of West Africa. Rather than seeking the roots of traditional African dance, hOwever, Eddy is intere$ed in seeing the reverse: how is Western dance, and Western interpretations.of African dance received among dancers still in the traditional mold? By the way, one oflast year's winners, Dan Gordon, recently reported that after six exciting (and expensive) months at ... tending baseball games in Japan, he is now making the rounds of Latin American leagues. He ·has just left the Dominican Republic for Cuba, and plans to travel (financial and political conditions per- mitting) to Nicaragua before his year is up. pursuit of·a solution. Since the hostage-taking at the American embassy in Tehtan, terrorism has adopted a crisis status. · Rather than diminishing the problem, this has only served to inflame it. The efforts have been geared towards finding a straight-forward solution to an issue which cannot ev.en be straight-forwardly understood. This sort {)f attitude will lead to nowhere. Perhaps in de~ling with terrorism it should be asked what, if any, interests are at stake, and if they are in any way threatened. Tlie failure to find a \solution\ has emphasized the crisis and provided the terrorists with the publicity which they seek. In operating on the assumption that each act of JAPANESE LANGUAGE AND CULTURE AT SUSQUEHANNA From July 28 Lo August 19, Susquehanna University, at · Selinsgrove, PA, will offer an intensive program in Japanese j language and culture. Ninety hours of insLruction will consist ~ of five hours of language class daily, taught by native Japanese instructors, using progressive, dynaQlic methods and materials. Students will earn four transferable semester hours of credit. American Sllldcnts will share a residence with twenty -four . Japanese students from Tokyo's Senshu University. A fee of $1400 includes 90 hours of instruction. lodging in a dormitory, three meals a day and two overnight trips. Contact Dr. Susan Johnson, Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, PA 17870, Tel. (717) 374-0101 for- application forms. and information. applications are due by July 1, 1988 . ~· Discover one of Schenectady's Best kept secrets and Help us Celebrate our 6th year with our annual INTER- NATIONAL WEEKEND COMING UP! Anni'versary Sale THE SHOPPE Neat Clothing,Jcwclry, And Accessories For Women With Real Style Off All Merchandise (Including Sale Items!) Sale runs Thursday April14 thruough Saturday Aprill6 JUST S MINUTE WALK FROM CAMPUS 133 C:1nal SquMe, Schenectady, NY 12305 518-370-4288 APR.IL 22-24· BRINGING THE WORLD TO terrorism is .a threat, is a respense which has allowed the terrorists to gain the ad- vantage. The public is now allowed to feel the sense of uncertainty; that terrorists oollld strike at will, the media has given them the sense that they ar;e par- ticipants and they develop an identification with the victims. Terrorism is now being equated with war. The question now becomes what shall we do about it. If indeed, terrorism is a fonn of war, then do we answer the question with a military response? It is impossible to give this answer to each case of terrorism. The many different methods and goals prevent th.s. What c~n be done instead is to come to terms with terrorism, to accept it for what it is. The first step might be· an attempt to understand the terrorist, .for what he is, the enemy, and take into ·consideration his motives and capabilities without overly exaggerating them. The second step is to realize that there may not ever be a question of ex- ting:uishing terrorism but rather one of diminshing its damages. Ways in which to do this may indeed include military action, or, economic sanctions or diplomatic pressure may be utilized. Perhaps the :most promising is the coopeJ.lation among nations to aid in the · prev.ention of terrorist actions. Above all, it is important to gauge each response to terrorism -in relation to the particmar circumstances and interests involved. Maybe, someday, these things will come togetber and the crisis, ,ff not the existence, of terrorism wm end. THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCH Panarna - The United States sent 1,3000 troops in order to \enhance the security\ of US facilities. Panama's president considers this a provocation of the American Government. Afghanistan: The Soviets have begun preparations for the withdrawal of 115,000 · Red Army troops. However~ US officials said that peace talks in Geneva are at an impass. [f these peace talks are successful, the Soviet pullout would start on May 15. Afghan rebels shot down a Soviet civilian jetliner, killing all 29 aboard. India: A judge in India ordered Union Carbride Corp., to pay $192 million in interin1 relief for victims of the 1984 Bhopal poison-gas leak. Kuwa-it: Arab hijackers comandeered a· Kuwait Airways jumbo jet, forced it to land in northeastern Iran and threatened to blow it up unless Kuwait released 17 pro-Iranian prisoners. Hijackers offered to trade passengers for jetliner fuel in Cyprus. They have killed two passengers and are threatening a slow and quiet 1nassacre. Spain: A court in Barcelona convicted an Arr1erican photographer of trafficking cocaine. C. Owen, 23, was sentenced to six · years in prison. FRENCH CLUB MOVI.E \TCHAO PANTIN\ On Monday, 4/18/88 at 8:00pm CC .Mobile Lounge 406

C()NCORDIBNSIS, April 14, 1988 Page 9 .;INT·ERNA TIONAL FEATURES: . The, Lonely Island of Europe ay CHRISTOPHER MERK Switzerland~ one of the smallest ·countries in the world, is kn()wn worldwide for its peacefulness and uneven:t- fulness. There must be a reason for :this misconception. Officially Switzerland has been neutral for more than one hl!Pdred years towards other collntries.Jt managed not to get directly involved in two world wars and several revolutions. This makes_ Switzerland special for many people ·Wo-rldwide. Our politicians · noticed this, and they wanted to maintain the cowitry's good reputation. So they decided to be -very conservative politically which is ·.continued to this day. This Would not be .possjble in ~!)st other countries, but as Swit~erl$d is not a member of any international community or pact, they can act like an island in the middle of modern Europe. · · 'The direct democracy which we have chosen for our political system is working rather well •. Ho-wever, it could work better if the :people would .participate m()re an,d take advantage of tbei.r rights, but the folk are oftEn too naive to see what is going on. Before I give some examples of what our politics arelike, I want you to know that the structure of our parliameni was originally taken over from the United States and was then m()difled. Our president is elected for one single year and can be re- elected then. This is usually not tlle Ci!Se as the president is one of the seven secretaries who creat;e thee laws. · The congress andtlte parliament more \or les·s debate and approve or disap- prove thjllaws. :rhe folk cannot make. laws but it would be desirable if they could do so. MhTcl-\lr·I'G FUN1)S 1 {'I\~'!\C.H1 NG furJPS, N•LLiof')S of POLI.ARJ? .. Right now, anyone who collects 100,000 signatures, forces the parliament to change the constitution after a vote by the folk. The parliament protects itself against laws it does n()t like- it may offer' the folk another solution which sounds almost Uke the one which was already proposed. If there should be a change in the constitUtion, either the new version or the version of the parliament .or neither (just vote no for both) must .get 50 percent or tnor~. This makes the Swiss constitutiona huge collection of articles which usually don't appear in a constitUtion. In Switzerland the people can interfere with a decision which has -been accepted in parliament by collecting 50,000 signatures.. Then t·he parliament must ask the folk .if they really want this law or not by voting •. This can lead to very strange situations. For example, five years ago .the parliament decided. to build the Autobahn from Lucerne to Zurich-· something which . should have been done years ago. Some people who lived in this area decided not to have it and they collected signatures. One year later, the entire folk were asked if they wanted five miles of Autobahn in the State of ZUI\ich. The folk said no, but the vote showed· that the people who live in the neighborhood of the Autobahn wanted it. It took the parliament another two years to inake the decision to build the autobahn. This is Wlbelievable to me. First there was a. vote ruidthen the parliament made a decision which is contrary to the outcome of the pOpular· vote. Often the parliament is more concerned about itself than about the democ:r.atic system. As an example, I will give you a M J LL 1 o ~'~S' of\ rHr:.-J;iYf-1y, . ODLLA RS', .. '\CEo~Ge BliSh • . HAS\f>E UEYuVIICMI NDiw\\ N.I!T\0~ ' t..ac. K,;; p· u.f_l \\ vote which was taken last year. The folk dec.ided by 52 percent not to h<1ve a 47th army mWiition d1lmp. The parliament was shocked by the result because Switzerland is a country in which the army is a very important economical factor and a strong political .power. The reaction the parliamellt had was over· whelming .. They started to build the 47th rnunitton dump just aeross the street from the original plan within 24 hours .aiter the vote was taken. 'TecbnicaUy, the vote only ob- jected to th.e location. Of course, you could ask yourself, nobody. protested. ActuaHy, a few · people did, but nobody listened to th.em. :ne majority 9f the people saM that if Bern (the capital) makes such important decisions which concern the security of the country:, it would then be aeceptable. .Another interesting aspect is the number of political parties..-; or should I say the political party? We have Socialists, Communists,. Conservatives, Liberals,_ National Action ( • Nazis} and some other small parties. Socialists, Con· servatives (two conservative parties) a!!d Liberals have held over 66 percent in the parliament for the last 30 years and, most importantly, they worked together. They call the · cooper~tion the ''magic for· mula\ in whlch each party gets two secretaries and one spot is left for the socialists .. Switze.rland breaks the human rights. YES! Swit· zerland does not respect all of the human rights. Not all people are equal. Until three years ago, women were not allowetlto vote at all. Now they may vote· · in many- but still not all- states. AND: The freedom of individuali.&n is not entirely given andtlierefore the freedom of religion is not guaranteedJ Each male person mu~t serve m .the army till the age of 50. There is no civil servi-ce for people who cannot handle arms for any reason (.psychological, religious etc.). I hope to have shown that even in the best functioning democracy, all people have to participate and speak up whenever one is bothered by the :politics. I alSo hope that you now view Switzerland dif· ferently. Margaret Thatcher International Issue by Aime Simon What do you think of Pdme Minister Ma:a:garet Thatcher's economic poliey? Prof. Jonas • I think that Mrs. Thatcl1er's economic pdlicies, like Reagan's .policies in the United_ States, have been helpful in Britain in restoring a degree of prosperity to the nation. They lla.ve aided in modernizing the British economy. However, on the wit<>le, they have created an underclass of people, maintaining lru-ge groaps who will remain constantly unemployed. In the long r.un, by promoting the economy, by promoting the top echelon. those polici.es will create serious social problems. Prof. Finkelstein • I have lived, studied, and taugh. t in England. Ten ycais ago I didn't think that the British economy conld he turned around, and indeed that is what has happened. For appro:xirnately 80%- 85% of !he English people, Mrs. Thatcher has served tlhem well. For approximately 10%-15% in the old industrial areas in the North and Midlands and in Wales and parts ofSootland there is p·eat distress. r give her the higltcst marks for restoring an old e'conomy,.however she is not a very empathic person. But I 'hope that the ne1tt government in Britain will deal more humanely with thcsebi-passed inciividual areas. Chidsey Dickson • To my mind, th.e greatest thing 11.bout England besides the literary traditiO!lS was their economic: policy that Partitioned tlle wealth of th.e country- half to the sta.:te, half to the private sector. Now that it is slowly and surely being sO>lcl to investors at the highest price, the wealth will no longer be distrib11ted among the people. Mat~eo Co.veri:-.Al}..bondlo - his always very easy to judge others ·for their deeds especially if they do not perfectly c~>in:cide with our hopes and desires. lhou,gh tile Iron Lady's policy has b~n harsh ~n the lower classes in the UK since 1979, I think that :sh.e has to be admired for having succeeded in balancing the kindgom:s: budget. After many years in which the British economy has n,ot been to prosperous, now, thanks to Mrs. Thatcher, the economic situation in Great .Britain is proceeding to the pink road again. From what I c1111 see, Prime Minister 1hatcher has successfully tried to get some money into GB' government's .accounts before it could be spent, for the people's good. Unfortunately, noi too many leaders have seemed o~r seem to be capable of ~rsuing this type of eeonorii.ic policy. ISU TABLE. , Friday College Center at 12:3() To Discuss International Weekend ' - ~xpan~--· v~~r- \'~r~~.~-\s wi.th Union's Dinner Adventures A member oi Union's Faculty or staff or a friend, native about that culture with slides. or video OATE.S: tapes. Dinner~ include several dishes from that culture. ENGLAND Wed. April27,6:30 pm JAPAN Wed. May 11, 6:30pm GERMANY Wed. May 2~, 6:30pm COST: 1 DINNNER: $17 3 DINNNERS: $45 For Registration ln:fo Call _ . \.\ JD\.Hal~J:~.t()use .. IHE FI:RSTQRIENTATION MEETINGS ARE SCHEDULED FOR THE FOLLOWING TERM ABROAD PROGRAMS: . BATH-YORK MONDAY, APRIL 18 AT 4:30 lN HU 112 FLORENCE. MONDAY, APRIL 19 AT 4:30 IN HU 112 We will distribute handouts and discuss : matters pertaining to ea~h program. · . These meetings are very important and for your benefit, so plan to attend and bring your questions! Call the Terms Abroad Offi:ce at X 6002 if you have any questions. 370~6638 LANGUAGE TABlES Monday: FRENCH Tuesday: ITALIAN Wednesday: GERMAN SPANISH Friday: RUSSIAN Meet in th~ College Center Oinin~ Room at 12:30 p.m. (Russian starts at 12 :45 p.m.) ) ' '. \~ i ,, I ' I

t Page 10 J'/ ~ T'al ~ l5 CONCORDlEN$1S, April 14~ 19,*8 .. ; . ~ . ·~ : . ' - - . SCIEN.CE· AND -TE·Clt.NOL/O·GY Hop:e· Fq·r Ozone ' . Ey ALAN DE S.AL\7:10 That corresponds to an 18~s% .· r '' 80% ,by 1993, andin.palf.by.l\9.98. Unfortunately, only tne US and' Me:x:ic() · have .. t~tified .. that trE:t:tty. · · Sunscreen $took · may ·be · a goo(!Unvestment. · · We bave been made aw:are of the danger imposed on our futures by the widespread use of chl()roflourocarbOns, iu:tmely wides()read deaths by skin eaneer, Australia and' South America · · rendered . total· drop in the amount of ., ozone in eight ye~rs~ . In .· 20 ' years, 30% gone: By 2020~ ·o.ver 50%. destroyed, This (lssul;n;es a · constant ·2.~% reduction each year, .. but halocarbOns· thalons and cbloroflourocarbons:) can . . last for roo rears or more in :the ' · . · lower atmosphe~e, .slowly Henry Butz,el ·In -:Memoriam uninhabitable by int~se <:tiff using up ·.into the : By PA'Tfl'IIOUMIEL . \Oh for Pete's sake,let~s just get some ozone and send it back up there!\ · ultta:violtJt radiation, and, ·worst of alL ,oo more spring breakto a sunny climate. I · was dirtily aware of the risk imposed hy 1 it knew the ,findings were disputed, that the growing ozone 'hole over the Arttartic may be a recurring natural fea~llne, .etc ... But of course the overriding belief that a~ows us all t() hlith,ely expose 90% of oirr skin to those intense solar rays was our confidence in .Big Business. We .know Big Business would never do anytlling to, hl:ll't us (and if tlley did, they would settle out of courtand the person in question would ·end up very rich anyway). Right'? strato~phere, w:here __ they ~an dissociate and dotheir damag.e. This m,eans the. lower . at- mosphere contains a h.uge amount of halocarbons working . their way up, leading to a gradual fitture increase in the damage to the. ozone. Studies have· determined tbat the ozone will not tiegin to recover from the present total atmospheric poisioni,ng · lintH the 22nd cen .. tury, which is four generations from now. · He~ry M •. :B.utzel Jr. prof~sSQr l)f Bioch~ieal Genetics . ~t Uniun. died; Friday ~fter a ·brief illness at · 'the age. of · 65. Professor But~el t.aught at · Union for.~~ year~. ~· . Butzel· was bt>rri 'in Detroit, . Michigan~ He grad\late_d with ' . honots'.from Williamfl College in From What's So .Funny About Science by Sidney Hapris Cjasi Sp·eaks About Physics as Art By ·BECKY KOOPMANN Attila Cjasi, internationally known tor his work with laSer's and holography, spoke at the joint colloquium of the Society of Physics Students, the Physics Departments, and the Arts Department on Thursday, March 31, in the College Center. Originally scheduled for March 3, the talk was postponed due to the speaker's illness. Fellow at the Center for Ad- vanced Visual Studies at MIT and the Museum of IJolography in New York. His work is currently oil display in B~ston and will soon be moving to Philidelphia. The Arts Department and tbe Society of Physics Students were protld to sponsor Csaji and gratefal to him for coming. SPS would alsu. like to thank Professor Baksay for arranging the colloqll.iwn and the Arts and Pbysics Departments for their cooperation. Als(), the semi-analytical portion of our colledve con'\ science always kicked in and we1 realized the damage to that gigantic ozone layer (planet wide} could only be tiny, after all, how much of these chemicals can poor little Homo SapiEns generate every year? Here are a few. tidbits or in• formation. From 1978 to 1 '985, globa! levels of stratospheric ozonE dropped on average 2.5%. Industry worldwide in 1986 consumed 2.5 billion pounds of halocarbons, and is Proje(!ted to be using over 3 billion pounds by the turn of the century. The United States lives up to it's top consumer image by using one forth.o£ that figure. However, there is hope, for the future. Du Pont, the world's leading producer of CFC's, announced it would. ph~se out CFC ptod11ction by the year 2000, And the US recently signed a treaty with 31 other nations seeking to cut CFC's to · 1943, · enter~d Iticliaha Graduate School in 1948,. and ·receiv:ed his doctorate in ,cyt()genetics. He . was published, JlBrticu1arlY in . the implications. of hUman . :genetics on pablic policy decision making': hislatest book entitled \Gen~tics in the Colll1;s\. Professor Butzel was very, active in commUllity affairs. He · was a fQrmer preSident of the Schenectady Museum, and served on the board of directors of the museum., Schenectady Planned Parent:hood, and the George Landis Ar'boritur:n. Professor But:zel was a vital member of the ·· biology Professor Walter Hatke of tlle Arts Department introduced Csaji, commenting on the role of the Arts in science. Csaji, whose accomplishments in- clucle the first laser symphony and the design of a laser crater· light dock in Budapest's air· port,. showed slides of his work and a series of three hologralrul. (Holograms are .three• dimensional pictures. They are exposed by shining laser light on an· object, which reflects light to a photographic plate, interfering constructively or destructively with light frorn a reference beam. When the plate is developed. and placed in ligllt, a virtual image is visible and can be ex:amined from all angles, much· as the original three-dimensional! object could be). One of Csaji's in- terests is in.changing how space is perceived by tbe audience~ His techniques have even been used in stage productions to dramatize certain scenes. His holograms consisted of three images of the same subject, differing in spacial percepti()n. The first contained a mask with a spring ill front, casting its shadow on the mask. The middle appeared as art inverted mask with the spring within, and the tmrd was a super- position of the two, appearing to actually sit outside the plate~ The effect was uncanny, ancl the hologram series was definately the highlight,of the talk. ·.space Capsules -Solar Peaks · department; always overseeing department activities, helping with the mail ~It and visitors. He was a familiar face to all who frequented the \biology . department. A deJilanding professor, he expected the bestfrom all of his students and was willing to spend the time needed with them to help them achieve their Casji is a Soros Foundation MINERVA LECTURE ·· Thursday; Apri/21 11 am . College Center Auditorium HAROLD HASTir.IGS lu maflemaHclon ..t.ooeY«>Ik has e><lend8d inb the !old ol arlllc:iallnlo~g;enee and ' brain mod<Jiin~. PI'Oi&soaql malhomatiesilv1d' dopa. rtmMI eharmon at Hols~a Univor&llv hO> ala<!. has work8d exlensively n rnallemaicaf~ formon~mod<li& Yohi<!lstudy lheeftectscl i>eid rain~~ \\'lain ecoay&lom&. He \'1mll!l his B.S.,t0011 'VIlle, . and hia J.lA, \\d Ph D. 1rom Prnc.lan. Hiallllk Is Dlled \Cornputon; and the Brain.\ PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM , \The International High School Physics Olympiad\ Dr. Arthur Eisenkraft fox Lane High School Bedford, NY Thursday, Aprll14,1988 · , . Steinmetz Hall 4:45 pm • · llalreshmonta ~ a.. ~ N. 4:30 Pm By MARTYHECK The dynamic forces of the.Sun operate in approximately eleven year cycles, ranging ip . this time period from extremely active and highly magnetic periods during which the Sun gives off intense solar radiation, . to periods of relative calm. The . last period of minimum solar activity was in 1986. Today, however, the Sun seems to be . entering a period of extreme activity. The upcoming cycle may mark a period of ex:• ceptionally high activity, · perhaps the greatest activity yet recorded by scientists. The previous high occurred in 1957. This intense activity, especially in the foriD of ultraviolet rays, bombar<!S the · atmosphere of the Earth and warms it up: 'The density in the upper atJ:nosphere is increased greatly. The increase iil the upper atmosphere density can cause the premature decay of some satellites in orbit. Tile satellites most ar risk are those in low-earth orbit at a level of 200-300 miles. Communicafions· satellites and most of the other · most· vital satellites ·are generally · orbiting in. geosyn .. ·Chronoll$ patns ·at- 22,300 miles, Will not be affected. Many research satellites and other satellites that rely on maintenance by the Space Shuttle are highly at rtsk •. One of the satellites most at risk is the key U.S. satellite studyillg the solar activity that may, ira fact, cause its destruction. This satellite is the Solar Maximum Mission satellite. The satellite~ launched at a cost of well ·over $200 million, has already . greatly.· contributed · t() scien- tists'. knowledge of solar emisSions, including X- and g~a ra)% light waves, ~d radio waves. 'lbe scientists ill · charge of the satellite hope that a Shuttle mission can add fuel to the boosters. of the. satellite, enabling it to fire its rockets and save itself during the decay caused by the solar activity. This would allow the satellite to gain .information of the efl.~ects of a solar peak. Scientists are urgmg NASA to hurry because calculations show that the satellite will start tumbling in about 11 months as its orbit beglns to decay. At this point, it will no longer be approachable by Shuttle crews. Scientists have examples backing their desire for an quick mission. ln 1979, Skyl~b was knocked from the sky by -a solar maximwn. Scientists had warned of this occurence year~ in advance, much . like the scientists of today. It is very likely that pieces of large satellites, or even the Soviet space station which is also at risk,. could land in sizable chunks on Earth if knocked from orbit .. The possibility of injury or property damage is very unlikely, however; · potential. To 'llis research assistants he wai3 a mentor .. He was genuinely interested. in the affairs of his advisors and assistants and readily helped them with ac~demic and per- sonal pursuits. To those who knew him well, his fatherly advice and caring gestures will always be rememb_ered. An asset to Union,. he will b~ greatly missed · by all. Union to Advance Science Educ,ation If there was ever a time in whicll education was making fro11t page news,this could be it. 1b& SA1's have come under attack as biased against W()men and minorities. High schools are considering extending the length of· the academic year while politicians find that education is a fashionable issue to\boost. .And colleges and universities are ()Dserving a disturbing . trend: the kiminisbing n11Illbers of students that study ~Cience Md mathell,latics at the un· der~ra4.luate and. graduate level. To - coUfiter that · trend, ·a major :initiative has beeo un\' dertaken by five clusters of colleges and universities across the country, which have jointly received $7.4 million from The Pew Charitable Trusts t~ im· · p.rove under-graduate ed11cation in the sciences and math~matics. Udoo CoUege Js part of a cluster of seveil New York in· stltutlons wllich have been awa~ed $1.08 million io launch a 1bree-year . collaborative prGjec:t lneluding new clusroom and laboratory coaraes, equlpmellt, and traimlug . programs for edDCiltf>rs. Participating with Union are st.x liberal arts institutions- Barnard, Hamilton and Manhattan colleges and· Colgate and St. Lawrence universities- and a major research in- stitution, Cornell University. Union College President Jo.hn Morris says of this unique collaborative venture, ''The.' Pew initiative will bring the research resources of great ' universities in touch With the teaching expertise of the liberal arts college. Together they will accomplish more than they ever could aJ.one.\ · One of the first programs to take place is a major .sym- posium on \Science Curdculum and· Pedagogy\ at Cornell University fron~. June 14 .. 17. Featured will be Cornell astronomer Carl Sagan, Har• . vard biologist Steph~n Jay GoUld and California Institute of Technology historian Daniel Kevles. \The c:olleges and univer- sities participating in the Pew Science Program have ex- ceptionally strong track records ill .undergraduate education,\ said Dr. Thomas W. Langfitt, president of The Pew Charitable Trusts. \We hope tnat this opportwlity to pool resources and· exchange i~eas Will lead to the development of innovative models of collaboration that can be shared with the larger · ed11cational community.'' . Data from the National Research CoUiicll ranks Union fifth among 867 (lrivate, un- dergraduate UJIJ,eges iJ1 .the number of· grad11ates who went on to earn 1lte Ph.D. in Chelllistry frolll 1~20-80. Union . ranks fourth ill tile production of graduates who llave obtained a Ph.D. degree iD Physics. · Still, it is evident from. data of · the Bureau of La:bor Statistics, that civilian employment of scientists ancl engineers may grow by as mucb. as 40 percent over the next decade- on the~ orderof700,000·bythe year 2010. The institutions chosen by The Pew Charitable Trust will addreSS this ·prDblem. in COnm crete ways. Direct student involvement in faculty researeh and student• initiated researeb is a strong component e>f the :un- dergraduate pr()gram at Umon. With the Pew grant comes the opportunity to further strengthen the research op- portunities here while. bringing new and .. vital eXperiences to students in tlte classroom through comp.llter networks aeross camp11ses and new courses that will stimulate fioeshmen stude11ts. j l ' A I ' ~' ., ,, ... ·' 1,; ., '• ' '~

.i l '• , .. I ,, ' i ' I, I ... ~'. ~ ..... 1 •-;•\ :· ''1 '.~ .• --~·, . CONCORDJENSJS, April 14, 1988 Page 11 ORIENTATION ADVISORS . . ' ·WANTED:· Like meeting new people . . . Like moving tables . . . Like beillg social . . . ·Like introducing new students to college life ... Like fl!earing th~ same T-shirt 4 days in a row?? THEN APPLY TODAY!!! · Applications available in the Dean of Students' Office (3rd Floor, C~Jilege Center). Applicati.ons due Friday, April 22. \It was a fun time ... I enjoyed showing people what UniC>n is all about. Everyone who's anyone should apply!!\ Peter Scott, '88. \Orientati()n is so much fun. Meeting the ·new students, th~ social ev~nts; the deck show· Everything about it was great\ Chris Sheridan., '88 Enjoy Orientation with the New Students in 1988 \The opportunity to meet new students and getting to know other Union students is something that is fun to be a part of and .it is really great to work with other dedicated and enthusiastic students.\ Chris Donnelly, '8S . \lt\iiVaS quite an exciting experience to meet the new stu.Qents. Orientating and introducing them to the Coalege was a worthwhile commitment.\ Amy Rosenthal, '88 \It's the toughest job you'll everlov~. especially if your O.A. partner .is amaz:i11g .\ Mary Aim Dunham, '88

Page 12 CONCOIUJIENSIS, April 14, 1988 C!Ll11tfJlrbirnsis --------------Founrled fll /Jnion College 1877 ------ Where Do We Go? ·The last two freshman classes have been two of the largest, which has strained existing facilities. While admissions has taken measures to ensure that next year's freshman class is a more manageable size, strained facilities wiU continue to be a problem. Parking is nearly impossible; there is a ltousing crunch; study ·space is at a minimum; and the library needs expanding. The trouble is, our campus is surrounded by residential area. Where can we build these needed additions on a campus already limited for spac~? The choices seem to be, building up, which would be aesthetically atrocious, or building out. As we are surrounded by residential area we can't expand, or can we? Union owns many of the houses bordering campus. Some are unoccupied and others perform minimal services. Although possible uses are restricted by local zoning requirements, it seems a waste for a campus in need of space to own property that is not being maximized. Can this property be more efficiently utilized? Union, undoubtedly, has some pull in the community; can't more lenient stipulations be agreed upon? The college is expanding .the library onto the existing tennis courts and moving them behind Richmond. This 'juggling' approach can't be used again; there just isn't that much extra ground. It would be interesting to know, if the college intends to solve problems demanding space, how they plan to do so. Eillighten Us Both criticism and praise have been directed towards the General Education Board's efforts; however~ the heart of the issue has, as of yet, neither been questioned nor addressed. And before true debate over the efficiency of the proposal can commence, the m-otivation behind it must be elucidated. Why have faculty and administrators been moved by the General Education Curriculum proposal? Controversy over its implementation at Union is rooted in the magnitude of its influence; it will enormously affect the direction of the College upon its installation. But, with all of the G.E.B.'s flag waving and numerous revisions, the proposal fails to provide the community with why we should accept it; they haven't provided us with the underlying goal. This is the closest they come to supplying us with it (in one of the· 'rationales' of their latest revised edition, February 12, 1988):- \We all agree that our students need to gain a deeper understanding of their own heritage.\ They all agree. All nine members of this college community agree. That appears to be all the reasoning necessary to support their proposal. lf they were evaluating their own work, the word, 'elaborate,' would be scratched in on the margin because they've left the remaining 2,991 members of the community in the dark as to what made them agree? Have they taken E.D. Hirsch's and Allan Bloom's sensational bedtime reading too much to heart (particularly after President Morris's r()using Opening Convocatlon speech)? Has the G.E.:B. been inspired by other prestigious colleges and these colleges' recent iniatives to cultivate its students? If so, General Education Board, avoid the hassles of dealing with course scheduling and distribution requirements; attack the heart of your underlying goal by simply requiring professors to use Dr. Hirsch's \What Literate Americans Know\ as a checklist of what they should be teaching in the classroom. That way we all can be assured that no student slips through the system without being able to competently play Trivial Pursuit. · If not, enlighten us, G.E.B., with the true purpose of your proposal. Provide the community with the 'core' of your initiative, and, from there, we can begin to debate its potency. LETTERS Student Theft Runs Rampant T()the Editor: Last week's article regarding the theft from Phi Gamma Delta and widespread campus concern about burglaries really hit llome last weekend at Delta Gamma. On Saturday, AprillO, at 4 a.m., a male student in semi-formal attire was seen passing from Delta Gamma to Potter carrying stolen food. This .marks. the third occasion within the past Six weeks that our sorority h()use bas been ·broken into, resulting in the loss of a microwave andfo(ld. While fraterriities, sororities and. individuals should be concerned fortlleir possessions, the general sa:fety of resident students should als() be ad- dressed. The tbr~esororities on campus are not protected from forced entranee. on the ground levels and aren()t provided with the amount of security that exists in b()th North. . and Richmond~ Preventive mea- sllfes on behalf of both, the students .and the college, could llelp avoid fur:tner and' perhaps more extreme incidents. It is unfortunate that there .are students at Union who feel the necessity to act in such an immoral fashion against their own peers, but in no way should 1ibese actions be accepted. Gwendolyn. Wallace '89 Delta Gamma Healthy Consciousness Raising· To the Editor: I would like to reiterate last . weEk's editoriaL It is .hear- telling to see that the Uniom College Student Body can get.its nose out of the booze and tbe boook::s long enough to address 1!1 coonnon concern. The success .o,f Save-The-Grass, · Students Al{ainst Pornography, the Shades of Gray presentation an.t the senior campaign to sa-ve tbe Skellar to at least spul' students to discussion is a positive start to a more cari-ng atmosphere on this campu$. 111 this same vein, during eigltth week, Mountebanks ana;l B.L.A.S, will present Eugene O'Neill's play- \All God's ChiHun Got Wings.\ The play, directed by Michelle Maratto '89 explores the alienation experienced by a yollllg inter- racial couplebt the early 1900's. Michelle, in dEfending. the play which contain~ harsh language and tense em'()tional scenes, said that if sbe <eould just make some people think, the con- troversy it nright. cau,se would be worth it. 1'he production gives students, black and white, an opportunityto work together and hopefully a.n opportunity to learn about ·each other and about their own .particular stereotypes and prejudices. B.L.A.S. and I.S.U. have continually coordinated ac- tivities that highlight other . cultures. Other groups, academic departments and ' individuals have tried to en- courage political and cultural awareness among Union students. I only hope that this movement continues to grow, and that the students and ad- ministration · continue to respond favorably. We as community would like only to be better for it. Leata R. Jackson '88 F.R.B.· Clarifies Tenure Process To the Editor: \The f<Jllowing statement frcm thE Faculty Review Board may be ef interest to the Colleg;e Coliliilunity. ln evaluating the· teaching t~f cartilldates for tenurability th:e Faculty Review Board and its Ad Hoc Committees consider inf()rrnation from at least all.mf tiLe following sources: Interviews and written r.esponses from approximate!)', iwenty..:five randomly-selected ()n.campus students; Letters from randornl;w- selected alwnnae/i; ~esiimony from depar-t- mental colleagues and other ftlculty members with relevant Knowledge; Letters from student5, faculty, and administrators sut»mitted in response to solicitations in Concordiensis JJBd the Chronicle; Course syllabi, hand-outs, ~s:aminations, etc. supplied by tbe candidate; The candidate's invited written statement on teaching; :Earlier Departmental reviews of the candidate·'s teaching; End-of-term student course . e:valuations; Course grade lists from the ()ffice of the Registrar. ~ In all tenurability cases, tbe . g:reatest weight is placed on tlhe e-vidence derived from ra.n- tlomly-selected students and allliilili, and from colleagutes .· with first-hand experience of . ·tile candidate's teaching. 1 B.ut all of the above information is . . eonsidered including the ~ritten course evaluatior:lS, wllich typically are used to :eotroborate findings based o0n i~terview testimony and letters. TIJ.e FRB tries to see the pat1em . CJf te~ching performance whitCb . emerges from the total body of · ,evidence. In particular, the FRB d()eS riot place undue emphasis. o0n Letters to the Editor and Comme.ntaries do not necessarily~ reflect th·e opinions of the Editorial Board_ of Concordiensis the quantitative results with respect questions on the written course eva-Illations, and does not have in min.<!- bef<Jre the fact some \tbresl!old value\ for very good toex<!ellent teaching. Indeed, we look at all quan- titative arui open-ended responses on questions. Our primary con<:ern is With the quality and challenge of the material prese-nted to students by teachers, a~; well as w:ith the manner of its delivery. In reaching its judgment as to the quality of a candidate's teaching, the FRB considers all relevant available evidence and weights this against a college- wide $tandard of very good (or better) t~acbing; to do any Jess would be .a disservice to the candidate, students, and the College .. Yourstruly, Jan K. Ludwig Chair, Faculty Review Board Professor of Philo~ophy

Page 12 CONCORDJENSJS, April 14, 1988 ~nnrnrbtrnsis LETTERS --'-------Founded al Union College 1877 --------- Where Do We Go? The last two freshman classes have been two of the largest, which has strained existing facilities. While admissions has taken measures to ensure that next year's freshman class is a more manageable size, strained facilities will continue to be a problem. Parking is nearly impossible; there is a housing crunch; study space is at a minimum; and the library needs expanding. The trouble is, our campus is surrounded by residential area. Where can we build these needed additions on a campus already limited for space? The choices seem to be, building up, which would be aesthetically atrocious, or building out. As we are surrounded by residential area we can't expand, or can we? Union owns many of the houses bordering campus. Some are unoccupied and others perform minimal services. Although possible uses are restricted by local zoning requirements, it seems a waste for a campus in need of space to own property that is not being maximized. Can this property be more efficiently utilized? Union, undoubtedly, has some pull in the community; can't more lenient stipulations be agreed upon? The college is expanding the library onto the existing tennis courts and moving them behind Richmond. This 'juggling' approach can't be used again; there just isn't that much extra ground. It would be interesting to know, if the college intends to solve problems demanding space, how they plan to do so. Enlighten Us Both criticism and praise have been directed towards the General Education Board's efforts; however, the heart of the issue has, as of yet, neither been questioned nor addressed. And before true debate over the efficiency of the proposal can commence, the motivation behind it must be elucidated. Why have faculty and administrators been moved by the General Education Curriculum proposal? Controversy ovt!r its implementation at Union is rooted in the magnitude of its influence; it will enormously affect the direction of the College upon its installation. But, with all of the G.E.B.'s flag waving and numerous revisions, the proposal fails to provide the community with why we should accept it; they haven't provided us with the underlying goal. This is the closest they come to supplying us with it (in one of the 'rationales' of their latest revised edition, February 12, 1988): \We all agree that our students need to gain a deeper understanding of their own heritage.\ They all agree. All nine members of this college community agree. That appears to be all the reasoning necessary to support their proposal. If they were evaluating their own work, the word, 'elaborate,' would be scratched in on the margin because they've left the remaining 2,991 members of the community in the dark as to what made them agree? Have they taken E.D. Hirsch's and Allan Bloom's sensational bedtime reading too much to heart (particularly after President Morris's rousing Opening Convocation speech)? Has the G.E.B. been inspired by other prestigious colleges and these colleges' recent iniatives to cultivate its students? If so, General Education Board, avoid the hassles of dealing with course scheduling and distribution requirements; attack the heart of your underlying goal by simply requiring professors to use Dr. Hirsch's \What Literate Americans Know\ as a checklist of what they should be teaching in the classroom. That way we all can be assured that no student slips through the system without being able to competently play Trivial Pursuit. If not, enlighten us, G.E.B., with the true purpose of your proposal. Provide the community with the 'core' of your initiative, and, from there, we can begin to debate its potency. Student Theft Runs Rampant To th~ Editor: Last week's article regarding the theft from Phi Gamma Delta and widespread campus . concern about burglaries really hit home last weekend at Delta . Gamma. On Saturday, AprillO, . at 4 a.m., a male student in . semi -formal atttre was seen : passing from Delta Gamma to · Potter carrying stolen food. This marks the third occasion within the past six weeks that our sorority fuouse has been braken into, resulting in the loss of a microwave and f!)od. While fraternities, .sororities and individuals sh()uld be concerned' for their possessions, the genera!l safety ~Jf resident students should als<> be ad- dressed. The three sororities on campus are not proteeted from forced entrance on the ground tevels and are not provided with the amount of security that exists in both N ol\th. and Richmond. PreventiiVe mea- sures on behaif of both, the students aad the college, could help avoid further and perhaps more extreme incidents. It is unfortunate tihat there are students at Union who feel the necessity to act in such an immoral fashion against their own peers, but in no way shou!l.d these actions be accepted. Gwendolyn W aUace '89 Delta Gamma Healthy Consciousness Raising To the Editor: I would like to reiterate last week's editoriaL It is hear- tening to see that the UnioN College Student Body can get its nose out of the booze and the books long enough to address a cornn1on C()ncern. The success of Save-'The-Grass, Students Against Porm>graphy, the Shades of Gray presentation and the senior campaign to save the Skellar to at least spur students to discussion is a positive start to a more caring atmosphere on this campus. In this same vein, during eighth week, Mountebanks and B.L.A.S. will present Eugene O'Neill's play \All God's Chillun Got Wings.\ Tile play, directed by Michelle Maratto '89 explores the alienation experienced by a young inter- racial couple in the earlv 1900's. Michelle, in defending the play which contains harsh language and tense emotional scenes, said that if she could just make some people think, the con- troversy it might cause would be worth it. The pmduction gives students, black: and white, an opportunity to work t<lgether and hopefully an opport11nity to learn about each other and about their own particuLar stereotypes and prejudices. B.L.A.S. and LS.U. have continually coordinated ac- tivities that highlight other cultures. other groups, academic departments and individuals have tried to en- courage politica~ and cultural awareness among Union students. I only hope that this movement continues to grow, and that the students and ad- ministration · continue to respond favara:bly. We as community would like only to be better for it. Leata R Jackson '88 F.R.B. Clarifies Tenure Process 'To the Editor: The following statement from the Faculty Review Board may be of interest to the College Community. In evaluating the teaching of candidates for tenurability the Faculty Review Board and its Ad Hoc Committees consider information from at least all of the following sources: Interviews and written responses from approximately, twenty-five randomly-selected on-campus students; Letters from randomly- selected alurrmae/i; Testimony from depart- mental colleagues and other faculty members with relevant knowledge; Letters from students, faculty, and administrators submitted in response to solicitations in Concordiensis and the Chronicle; Course syllabi, hand-outs, examinations. etc. supplied by the candidate; The candidate's invited written statement on teaching; Earlier Departmental reviews of the candidate's teaching; End-of-term student course evaluations; Course grade lists from the Office of the Registrar. · In all tenurability cases, the greatest weight is placed on the evidence derived from ran- domly-selected students and alurrmi, and from colleagues with first-hand experience of the candidate's teaching. But all of the above information is considered including the written course evaluations, which typically are used to corroborate findings based on interview testimony and letters. The FRBtries to see the pattern of teaching performance which emerges from the total body of evidence. In particular, the FRB does not place undue emphasis on Letters to the Editor anct Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis the quantitative results with respect questions on the written course evaluations, arrd does not have in mind before the fact some \threshold value\ for very good to excellent teaching. Indeed, we look at all quan- titative and open-ended responses on questions. Our primary concern is with the quality and challenge of the material presented to students by teachers, as well as with the manner of its delivery. In · ··· Iklttors~mr<:lilel' News l'tditoi . . Assogiatc News Edlturs Features Editors . . .. ~- . reaching its judgment as to the quality of a candidate's teaching, the FRB considers all relevant available evidence and weights this against a college- wide standard of very good (or better) teaching; to do any less would be a disservice to the candidate, students, and the College. Yours truly, Jar:t K. Ludwig Chair, Faculty Review Board Professor of Philosophy ::t _; ,-: .. · .. ~E?~ ' ·. ··.l#~ii :a~~.~:i';:r! ..... . Le&lieMortis.t Li$:P¢rko:w~~' · \ .B~~Tt,tp1ey .. Bellv0otJds:mi1h.. R®ht JWt(l)'b!Wil: ··.B:fuUMonds¢he'bl;.~mt· Sltno.:t\$ c. Wllil~'J!tuntley ' Bill ittldldht . Jott c . m. At.an · • · (j~thi.n, A,l~x Gardner. .®;. B:tU!fc lll\J, ljt,;· Mntty ·· ~ta Jacksgn, $~ph~e . ~ ky l<oop;tttart J~er .. . . · Levine. Jim· Manley. Yitgtnie Melia, (.l'lristc· .. . .. ():tt}fit\, Cyntm~;,Pantlltis. ·.Qat;y .P.ttsti~~. J:t:~~:~l~gltf . .... . .. b~~ ~bnn- S\}hfn~4t Tina . Sti(l~¢'~tir ShQ:ltE}Y ~ ~g.ytn~~·· .C~~c'r:;il>ac.~, C~ntad. Tat~•~· Mw:k ' ~irtttti~{lh . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . ·. fH6T06RAtPfiltttS~

CONCORDJENSIS, April 14, 1988 Page 13 Sexism and Fraternities: Separate Issues . . . . . ,.r . .. . . . ''\ Tothe Editor: The fraternal culture has existed ~ince 1825, Since its genesi~. tbere have been those who fci.IIDd it theif place to be critical ()f its institlltion. Looking- from the outside in, dime store philosophers have histoiical!y picked, snickered and :sm~ered at the im- perfecti!()r:IS embodied. within the System. · Like ;ltlY institution, that of frater11ity suffer-s from negative by.pro<lucts, but to concentrate on the negative aspect of the struchtrle seems trivial. To question in any way the validity of the fraternity as a positive prQdllctive entity seems unfair. The efforts of the collective fraternal body. are continuously exhibited within and outside of Union:'s ca!]lpus. To hope for solutions to sexist. issuEs (and others .which have been presented by Felmon and Anne) in the modification of the frater:nity is unreasonable. The problems~issues. to which we seek solutions ate not cured at this 1evel. They run much deepe:r and are implanted long before we know the meaning of 'fraternity.' It is my sus~icion that the fraternal system as it stands today is repugnant to only a select few malcantents, The fraternity at Union is strong and healthy and a positive .in· tegral element of Union life. It's really sad that we are all suf- fering the discomfort of shallow, neut~red and often invalid accusations and digs by members of the student \lody, faculty and administration alike. Patrick A. DiCerbo Fraternity Proponent Fraternal Functions c;ontribute to Sociery To the :I£d:itor: Last ttime I checked, me and Union CA!llege were both in Amerie~. The last time I checked, being in America meant IJeing free to peacefiJ.lly asseml>;le, without outside in- dividua.Js or groups ... who possess 'the same freedoms-- interf~r-ing with that right. The last tinle I checked a fraternity or s()r:Or'ity was a pe:.cful asseml>ly- of individuals volunta-rily choosing to live and interact as a. group. It seems to me that a fraternity or sorority is an el(pression, indeed a prod\.lct, of some of the fun- damenta3 freedoms that Amerii::ans possess. Fratemilies, the cry of the French; Revolution not- withstancling, are a uniquely Amer'ieall phenomenon. A study of American history shows that they aro~e from a time known · hfhistCJnans today as the \Age of Or~anization\-.the 1820s, 30s, and 40s. Americans of all walks of life, male and female, young and ()]d., joined together in literally thousands of societies, each ()f which existed for the maintenance or protectLon of something or things which were of · mt~tual interest to their member-s. This also was a uniquely- American pheno()rnenon. Foreign ob- servers marvelled at the civic conscid11sness of Americans, nearli all of whom were in- volved. .in at least one, and often severaJ) such organizations. Alexis de Tocqueville, in his classic :ltudy of America and Amel'iocans, Democracy in Amel'i~a - written after a lengtli:::v visit to America in 18.31 - CO[]C:htd.ed that it was these privatE organizations which proteC!'ted the people's freedom in a democracy, and since in a dem11eracy it is the people thems~Clves who must ensure their evwn freedom, tlie people thems.el-ves must therefore also be civiccrlly conscious - at both a local and national level. To be sure, fraternities at the time ~ere a very small part of the -total nu· 1ber of or,ganizations. ff( rever, all org_a11i:lations, from the Knitting Club to the League of Whig Votel's, had an equally im- porUint role in fosterin& public awaremEss and public ac- counta~ility. The League of Whi!l Voters surely discussed mor~. than the evils of Andrew Jacks~n and the Knitting Club surel~ talked about more than just the best new needles of the day. My point is that ft:ater- nities and sororities serve nume:rous functions. Anne Carl's letter (of April 7) makes fraternities sound like no more than comedy dubs (which, incidentally, those radically anti\S:exist people must also want. eradicated since some humo-r is l>ased in large part on the degradation of the opposite sex). I wonder if Anne Carl realiz:es the thousands of dollars and man/women hours which frater'nities and sororities around the country donate to their local communities. Within the s.ame edition of Concordy that Felmon Davis and Anne Carl question the value of the fraternity and sorority system is a..n announcement of a fraternity organized blood drive w-ith a goal of sixty pints. Regardless of the faults of the G-reek system, this is evidence that that system does actively contribute to both the campus andtbe community at large. I wonder still further if Anne Carl :realizes the social benefits whicll fraternities and sororities contribute to the Uniom College campus. Fraternities and Sororities may not .be the end-all in campus social life now or when I was an undergraduate but they- are nonetheless primary (and generous) sources of diverse social interaction open to all without discrimination. We in the Greek system see our housces as both symbolic of our group .unity and as gathering places for ourselves and our frie11::ds• both male and female. I do not deny that sexism exists on this campus; un- dou\)tedly it rears its ugly though usually innocuous little hea<l iil both fraternities and soroJ\ities. But does it not also exist on campuses which do not have these organizations and even: on .campuses where these organizations are co-ed? Those wM feel the integration of these organizations wil somehow eliminate sexism miss the forest for the trees. Those who feel it will reduce sexism - truly an .a1dmirable desire - infringe on the freedom of others for what is, in effect, a band-aid cure. Sexism'willnot go away if fraternities and sororites are abolished or integrated. In response to Assistant Professor Davis' question: 'Why don't fraternities (and sororities) go 'co-ed!?, · the answer is quite simple -because they don't want to. Some people call th~ fraternity and sorority system's refusal to· admit members of the opposite sex discriminatory, yet (as a friend and I were discussing re- cently) it's actually more differentiation than discrimin- ation. I feel like I've been forced to state the obvious,· but men and women are dif- ferent and regardless. of the existence of a Greek system, the overwhelming majority will still choose to live separately. Fraternities and sororities are just organized groups of in- dividuals who have made this decision and have enough in common that reasonably large nw:nbers of them can live together without going crazy (since the tendency seems to be toward smaller groups). In a sense, they are quite rational reactions to this natural ten- dency. To those who feel that fraternities and sororities propagate sexism, I challenge them to prove it - like they would in a court of law. Prove to me and the college community that these organizations are merely excuses for ·the degradation of the opposite gender. However, don't show .me · individual organization member's activities because they are just that- individual's actions. When a fraternity or sorority is .found whose charter or covenant expresses senw timent which serves the degradation of the opposite sex, then I will be first in line seeking its abolition. However, you can't legislate morality nor can you eradicate what is in the eyes of some a moral problem by simply abolishing in- stitutions. These issues are imbedded into our society and Olli' culture; yes, we should attempt to find a solution but one which doesn't infringe on oth'ers' rights and which does more than scratch the surface of the problem it's trying to solve. Until that time I will be first in line defending in- stitutions which propagate civic awareness. community service, and, yes, provide all the free beer you can drink on a Friday or Saturday night. Sincerely irritated at intolerance Robert Wilder 1986 Psychology Cub and Psi Chi P·SYCH:OLOGY CAR'EER DAY 12--1:30: Hale House- lull cheon and Keynote Ma1c E. W C}:re, Creighton University speaker, Saturday, April 30 1:3Q-5: Old Chapel Career Information Session Brothers Benefit Community To the Editor: I would like to express my gratitude and sincere thanks to the brothers and pledges of Phi Sigma Kappa at Union College. This past Satqrday they donated their time and energy to .refurbish the Scheneetady Day Nursery. Over 400 man .. hours were volunteered and our · facility hasn~ver looked better. At a time when fratemities are under fire it is reassuring to witness these fine gentlemen contribute to the beneficence of the community. I again com- mend their actions and en- courage other Greek organizations to follow the lead of Phi Sigma Kappa. Sincerely, Marie D. Burke Executive Director Schenectady Day Nursery Popularity Proved by Parties TotheEditor: · In the past weeks, several cheap shots have been taken against fraternities with regard to sexist attitudes. Fraternities have been at Union since 1825, primarily as literary societies. They served the purpose .of allowing males of similar in- teres.ts and attitudes to get together and exchange ideas. In addition, fraternities are a means by which to organize many events including sports and charitable causes such as blood drives and Big Brother programs. As they exist today, fraternities also provide a social atmosphere where friends, men and women alike, can congregate. Lately, however, a few people have taken the view that fraternities are inherently sexist. This view seems to be shared by a few people who seem to .feel that Union males are ''aut to get them.\ I tell these people to relax. and enjoy the company. Regardless of sisterhood, the vast majority of females at this campus feel comfortable in a fraternity. The proof is in any given fraternal social gathering. Unfortunately, not all feel this natural, and ac- cusing fraternities of sexism is a sign of their insecurity and nothing else. Admittedly, oc- casional isolated incidents occur where chauvinistic remarks are made; however, claiming that sexism and the \fraternity culture\ are so intertwined is preposterous. I urge everyone, men and women alike, to feel free to come over and look.into the Greek system. As for those who don't care to partake, kindly do not impose your dismay on the rest of us. Sincerely, Marc H. Blatt '89 Fraternal Bonds Endure To the Editor: Assistant Professor Felmon Davis has written two letters over the past month which have so far received no significant rebuttal. Although I have many problems with Davis' ac- cusations, I will restrict myself to clarifying those matters which he addressed in his letter ofApril7. Felmon Davis' first question pertains to the comfort and safety of female guests at fraternities. To answer: his- direct question, no there are no guest rooms for overnight stays, in most cases. However, I may also suggest that there are very few, if any, guest rooms in any of the housi.ng facilities on this campus. Moreover, I have yet to hear of any complaints from guests about sllitable quarterings in either the dorms or the other houses on this campus. (I have however, heard complaints from permanent residents in both cases. ) As for ensuring the safety of our guests, both male and female, we rely upon the judgment of the members of our society which is qUite sound, though not infallible. Awareness of our responsibility to do this is constantly reinforced during house meetings and through actions of the Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC), such as the recent distribution of an alcohol awareness contract, very similar to that of Students Against Drunk Driving (SADD), but even more far reaching in its intents. As one of our alwnni stated to an audience of twenty-eight active. brothers and fjfty some odd alumni, \We do not need to justify our existence\ to the community. However, to satisfy Professor Davis' second question, I would like to remark on the contributions of fraternities to the quality of one's education at Union. Union is a sheltered society. One of the · many benefits of fraternal life is the expansion of this society. The Greek organizations upon this campus provide more leadership opportunities and chances for personal expansion than the rest df the organizations combined. This experience is invaluable after emerging from the gates of Union upon graduation and even before this during the job search. This brings me directly to the question of networking contacts with alumni, introduced by Professor Davis. I am afraid, Professor Davis, that the networking does not go much further than to f1rst interviews in the job search, if this is what you are referring to, and I might also add that the school's \networking\ system is even more extensive and effective than that of any Greek organization. As most Greek organizations are not-for-profit an<l not business-oriented, the comparison that you have made t() \exclusive men's clubs which in fact transact business\ is effectively moot. As for myself, I find ft·ater- nity life a challenging and rewarding experience, and I cherish the many close friend- shipsthat I have developed as a direct result of said life. This, in itseU is enough for me and most Greeks to \jllStify\ the Greek system. It was the friendships that evolved and not the educational input of our society that convinced fifty brothers to return to our house last weekend from as far away as Alabama, and I assure you that · I plan to do the same for each of the next twenty plus years. S. Bradford Doyle '89 Keep the Carnegie Name ] ··~

CONCORDIENSIS~ April 14, 1988 Page 13 LET1~ERS Sexism and Fraternities: Separate Issues To the Editor: The fraternal culture has existed siace 1825. Since its genesis, there have been those who found it their place to be critical ef its insUtution. Looking from the outside in, dime store philosophers have historically picked, snickered and sneered at the im- perfections embodied within the system. Like any institution, that of fraternity suffers fr0rn negative byproducts, but to concentrate on the negative aspect of the structure seems trivial. To ...- question in any way the validity of the fraternity as a positive procluctive entity seems unfair. The efforts of the collective fraternal body are continuously exhibitecl within and oetside of U . , mons campus. TG hope for solutians to sexist issues (and others which have been presented by Felmon and Anne) in the modification ef the fraternity is unreasonable. The problems-issues to which we seek solutions are not cured at this level. They run much deeper ana are implanted long before we know the meaning of 'fraternity. • It is my suspicion that the fraternal system as it stands teday is repugnant to only a select few malcontents. The fraternity at Union is strong and healthy and a positive in- tegral element of Union life. It's reaUy sad that we are aH suf- fering the discomfort of shallow, neutered and often imvalid accusations and digs by members of the student body, faculty and administration alike. Patrick A. DiCerbo Fraternity Proponent Fraternal Functions Contribute to Socie~y To the Editor: Last time I checked, me and Union College were both in America. The last time I checked, being in America meant being free te peacefully assemble, without outsicle in- dividuals or groups-who possess the same freedoms- interfering with that right. The last time I checked a fraternity or sorority was a pe:tcful assembly of individuals voluntarily choosing to live and interact as a group. It seems to me that a fraternity or sorority is an expression, indeed a product, of some of the fun- damental freedoms that Americans possess. Fraternities, the cry of the French Revolution not- withstanding, are a uniquely American phenomenon. A study of American history shows that they arose from a time known by historians today as the \Age of Organization\-the 1820s, 30s, and 40s. Americans of all walks of life, male and female, young and old, joined together in literally thousands of societies, each of which existed for the maintenance or protection of something or things which were of mutual interest to their members. This also was a uniquely American phenomenon. Foreign ob- servers marvelled at the civic consci.ousness of Americans, nearly all of whom were in- volved in at least one, and often several, such organizations. Alexis de Tocqueville, in his classic study of America and Americans, Democracy in America - written after a lengthy visit to America in 1831 - concluded that it was these private organizations which protected the people's freedom in a democracy, and since in a democracy it is the people themselves who must ensure their own freedom, the people themselves must therefore also be civically conscious- at both a local and national level. To be sure, fraternities at the time were a very small part of the total nu· 1ber of organizations. Ht 1ever, all organizations, from the Knitting Club to the League of Whig Voters, had an equally im- portant role in fostering public awareness and public ac- countability. The League of Whig Voters surely discussed more than the evils of Andrew ,Jackson afld the Knitting Club surely talked about more than just the best new needles of the day. My point is that frater- nities and sororities serve numerous functions. Anne Carl's letter (of April 7) makes fraternities sound like no more than comedy clubs (which, incidentally, those radically anti-sexist people must also want eradicated since some humor is based in large part on the degradation of the opposite sex). I wonder if Anne Carl realizes the thousands of dollars and man/women hours which fraternities and sororities around the country donate to their local communities. Within the san1e edition of Concordy that Felmon Davis and Anne Carl (iuestion the value of the fraternity and sorority system is an announcement of a fraternity organized blood drive with a goal of sixty pints. Regardless of the faults of the Greek system, this is evidence that that system does actively contribute to both the campus and the community at large. I wonder still further if Anne Carl realizes the social benefits which fraternities and sororities contribute to the Union College campus. Fraternities and Sororities may not be the end-all in campus social life now or when I was an undergraduate but they . are nonetheless primary (and generous) sources of diverse social interaction open to all without discrimination. We in the Greek system see our houses as both symbolic of our group unity and as gathering places for ourselves and our friends· both male and female. I do n()t deny that sexism exists on this campus; un- doubtedly it rears its ugly though usually innocuous little head in both fraternities and sororities. But does it not also exist on campuses which do not have these organizations and even on campuses where these organizati<Jns are co-ed? Those who feel the integration of these organizations wil somehow eliminate sexism miss the forest for the trees. Those who feel it will reduce sexism - truly an admirable desire - infringe on the freedom of others for what is, in effect, a band-aid cure. Sexism will not go away if fraternities and sororites are abolished or integrated. In response to Assistant Professor Davis' question: 'Why don't fraternities (and sororities) go 'co-ed'?, the answer is quite simple- because they don't want to. Some people can the fraternity and sorority system's refusal to admit members of the opposite sex discriminatory, yet (as a friend and I were discussing re- cently) it's actually more differeatiation than discrimin- ation. I feel like I've been forced to state the obvious, but men and women are dif- ferent and regardless of the existence of a Greek system, the overwhelming majority wi11 still choose to live separately. Fraternities and sororities are just organized groups of in- dividuals who have made this decision and have enough in common that reasonably large numbers of them can live together without going crazy (since the tendency seems to be toward smaller groups). In a sense, they are quite rational reactions to this natural ten- dency. To those who feel that fraternities and sororities propagate sexism, I challenge them to prove it - like they would in a court ofla w. Prove to me and the college community that these organizations are merely excuses for the degradation of the opposite gender. However, don't show me individual organization member's activities because they are just that - individual's actions. When a fraternity or sorority is found whose charter or covenant expresses sen· timent which serves the degradatioA of the opposite sex, then I will be first in line seeking its abolition. However, you can't legislate morality nor can you eradicate what is in the eyes of some a moral problem by simply abolishing in- stitutions. These issues are imbedded into our society and our culture; yes, we should attempt to find a solution but one which doesn't infringe on others' rights and which does more than scratch the surface of the problem it's trying to solve. Until that time I will be first in line defending in- stitutions which propagate civic awareness, community service, and, yes, provide all the free beer you can drink on a Friday or Saturday night. Sincerely irritated at intolerance Robert Wilder 1986 Psychology Club and Psi Chi PSYCHOLOGY CAREER DAY 12-1:30: Hale House- luncheon and Keynote speaker, Marc Eo Ware, Creighton University Saturday, April 3,0 1:30-5: Old Chapel Career Information Session Brothers Benefit Community To the Editor: I would lik:e to express my gratitude and sincere thanks ta the brothers and pledges of Phi Sigma Kappa at UnionCoUege. This past Saturday they donated their time and energy to refurbish the Schenectady Day Nursery. Over 400 man- hours were volllllteered and our facility has ne\Ver looked better. At a time 'When fraternities are under fire it is reassaring to w~tness these fine gentlemen contribute to the beneficence of the cammunity. I again com- meRd their actions an.d en- courage other Greek organizations to follow the lead of Phi Sigma Kappa. Sincerely, Marie D. Burke Executive Director Schenectady Day Nursery Popularity Proved by Parties To the Editor : In the past weeks, several cheap shots have been taken againstfrate:rnities with regard to sexist attitudes. Fraternities have been at Union since 1825, primarily as literary societies. They served the purpose of allowing males of similar in- teres.ts and attitudes to get together and exchange ideas. In addition, fr-aternities are a means by which to organize many events including sports and charitable causes such as blood drives and Big Brother programs. All they exist today, fraternities also provide a social atmosphere where friends, men and women alike, can congregate. Lately, however, a few people have taken the view that fraternities are inherently sexist. This view seems to be shared by a few people who seem to feel that Union males are \out to get them.\ I teH these people to relax and enjGy the company. Regardless of sisterhood, the vast maj@rity of females at this campus feel comfortable in a fraternity. The proof is in any given fraternal social gathering. Unfortunately, not aU feel thls natural, and ac- cusing fraternities of sexism is a sign of their insecurity and nothing else. Admittedly, oc- casional isolated incidents occur where chauvinistic remarks are made; however, claiming that sexism and the \fraterntty culture\ are so intertwined is preposterous. I urge everyoae, men and women alike, to feel free to come over and look into the Greek system. As for those who don't care to partake, kindly do not impose your dismay on the rest of us. Sincerely, Marc H. Blatt '8() Fraternal Bonds Endure To the Editor: Assistant Professor Felmon Davis has written two letters over the past month which have so far recei-ved no significant rebuttal. Although I have many problems \?lith Davis' ac- cusations, I will restrict myself to clarifyin~ those matters which he addressed in his letter ofApril7. Fehnon Davis' first question pertains to the comfort and safety of female guests at fraterqities. To answer his direct questi~n, no there are no guest rooms for overnight stays, in most cases. However, I may also su~gest that there are vPry few, if any, guest ro<Jms in any of the huusing facilities on this campus. Moreover, I have yet to hear of any complaints from guest~ about suitable quarterings in either the dorms or the other houses on this campus. (I have however, heard complaints from pem1anent residents in both cases.) As for ensuring t!J.e safety of our guests, both male and female, we rely upo-n the judgment of the members of our society which is quite sound, though not infallible. Awareness of our responsibilit:y to do this is constantly reinforced during house meetings and through actions of tbe Inter-Fraternity Council .( IFC), such as the recent distribution of an alcohol awareness contract, very similar to that of Students Against Drunk Driving (SADD), but even more far reaching in Us intents. As one of o11r alumni stated to an audience of twenty-eight active. brothers and fifty some odd alumni, \We do not need to justify our existence\ to the community_ However, to satisfy Professor Davis' second question, I ~ould like to remark on the contributions of fraternities to the quality of one's education at Union. Union is a shelter-ed society. One of the many benefits of fraternal life is the expansion of this society. The Greek organizations upon this campus provide more leadership opportunities and chances for personal ex:pansion than the rest of the organizations combined. This experience is invaluable after emerging from the gates of Union upon graduation and even before this d!.!ring the job search. This brings me directly to the question of networking contacts with alumni, introduced by Professor Davis. I am afraid, Professor Davis, that the networking does not go much further tl:lan to flrst interviews in the job search, if this is what you are ref,:;rring to, and I might also add that the school's \networking\ system is even more extensive and effective than that of any Greek organization. As most Greek organizations are not-for-profit and not business-oriented, thr comparison that you have madl' to \exclusive men's clubs which in fact transact business\ i~ effectively moot. As for myself, I find frater- nity life a c.:hallenging and rewarding experience, ana I cherish the many close friend- ships that I have developed as a direct result of said life. This, in itself is enough for me and most Greeks to \justify\ the Greek system. It was the friendships that evolved and not the educational input of our society that convinced fifty brothers to return to our house last weekend from as far away as Alabama, and I assure you that I plan to do the same for each of the next twenty plus years. S. Bradford Doyle '89 [ Keep the Carnegie Natne

Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS, AprU 14, 1988 Support Group Lends an E.ar To the Editor: This winter tenn I worked with the Religous Programs Office to form a support group for students who have recently been confronted by the death of someone close to them. The group was s11ccessful and we met for seven weeks discussing and sharing our o'wn ex- periences with death. It was helpful to other people on campus who had faced similar problems and as a group we were able t() help each ether along. Presently I am working with the chapiains on campus to start anothel\ support group which· will meet at 8:00 on Tuesday nights in the Religous Programs Office this term. If you recently experienced the loss of a close family member or friend, a support group of this nature is an ideal outlet to express your griefs ·frustrations and questions. It helps to know that there are other people around campus wh~ have similar experiences with death. These people may have gone through many . of tbe .same experiences and can ther~fore listen and understand m a special way. . I urge you to attend the first meeting on Tuesday night if you have recently or not so recently experienced· a loss. It can only help. Thank you, Gail L. Blumenfeld '88 (Box 91 or 386-4144) Discrimination Against Men To the Editor: There I was, doing my wash, minding my own business, when what to my wondering eyes did appear, but another sign degrading my gender, as indirect as it may have ap- peared. The sign on the wall was an add for the Womens' Studies program, advertising a new movie it had brought upon our grounds. While I am sure it was not intended to be an attack on males, I C()Uld not help to become annoyed at the fact that such an organization could exist. Imagine if the sign had read, \Men's Studies t , . t d? pre sen s... 1ns ea . Men appear to be evil as a whole, wh() are typically chauvinistic. Th.erefore, they are unneccessarily controlled both by females and even their own. Who. I wonder, said Father-son dinners are wrong? What about failure to employ males for the sole reason that they (businesses) must fulfill gender quotas? Hell, while you're at it; lets abolish the Boy Scouts, fraternities, and Men's rooms as well. Male groups should be exclusive for the same reasons female ones should be as well. There is nothing wrong with it, and to prevent them from existing is truly discriminatory. Many groups may feel threatened by men, and have the notion that they are at- tempting to hold them back. Perhaps tllis is a root of discrimination againstmen. An inferiority complex exlsts only in the mind of the inferior-no one is trying to hold women back. In the year of our Lord, 1988, this notion is ridiculous. There is no reason to believe that women can a!ld have equaled and surpassed the achievement of men. [f this is true, which it is, why ~re men being subdued all over society, in an act of pure discrimination? Please do not misinterpret the writer, especially female readers. I have nothing against women, especially the women's studies groups, but If they (females, in general) are at all offended by discriiili.nation, sexist, of belittling behavior directed at their sex, perhaps they can better understan~ the feelings and subsequent viewpoint I maintain today. It does exist- male discrimination I return to my opening garble, if, in 1988, a poster advertising a male studies groups were to appear, it would be met with tremendous npposition (perhaps - like the ridiculous accusations the fraternal system must deal witb today), and probably would have. to realign itself, as not to ''of- fend.\ But yet it is \o.l~.\ for women. Do I see a double standard somewhere? How about discrimination\? Sound familiar? Where can I purchase an \Up With Men!\ button? Carl R. FriedrLch Jr. '91 Smith House in Danger Dear Editor, Recently, there has been a great deal of controversy regarding the co-op housing options on campus. Traditionally, Smith House and Bronner House have been available as housing privileges ~or groups of upp~rclassmen awarded on a pomt system basis: seni()rs (4), juniors (3), and sophmores (2). The S.A.C. is considering the elimination of current co-op in favor of granting these houses to special interest gr()ups. It is imperative that they lJnderstand the im• portance ()f this co-op program for the upperclassmen and for the college community. Due to the new lottery system effective for next month's lottery seniors no longer have priority for doubles and suites. If the co-()p option is taken away, realistically speaking, singles will be the sole option. As a result, nearly all seniors will move off campus. Then, where will the leadership be? In order for students to be active in the college community, it is important t() have them living on campus. In the past, co-op members have diverse interests:md have made substantial contl'ibutions to Union in their own tight. Naturally, special interest groups can benefit the college, however this should not be at the cost of other attributing students. It is unfair that a student belonging to ~ special interest group h11ve the privilege to live in the co-op for several years, as opposed to others who would earn this right through their class status. Next year's seniors, especially, will finish their years at Union without the chance to have seniority in the housing lottery. Although Greek liie is in- digenous to Union College, it is not a lifestyle for everyone. Other opportunities silould exist for upperclassmen to live with their classmates in groups, yet remain on campus. Furthermore, tile un- timeliness of this proposal is disconcerting to students organizing co-op gro\lps, whose efforts may be prove!l fruitless due to the possible elimination of co-ops. With the housing lottery a few weeks away, it is inconsiderate to make last minute changes as to the ', LETTERS Student Suggests College Center ·Compromise To the:Editor: Sir, I would like to make a public appeal to the Uilion College community and Ad;. ministration. My name is W.R. Hardy and I am · a multi- billionaire. I would like to donate 5 million ·dollars to Union College on the conditions that it 'be used to renovate the Nott Memorial and that U be renamed the Hardy Memorial. Will you. accept my proposal? My point here is that the renaming of Carnegie Hall after the donors who helped pay for the renovations of the afore mentioned building, or to rename the College Center, is wrong. The foLUldation of that building is still C3J,\llegie Hall. The front of that building is still Camegie HaJL The building should remai11 carnegie Ball. It i~ llllfortunate for the students and advantageous for the Administration that the majority 'f)f tile students on ·this campus don•t remember or never had toe «;Jxperience of what Carnegie Hall was .like before tbe rEnovati()ns. Thus the majority of stude11ts on this campus don't seem to really care about the.J.\enaming. Union College is ba~ed on traditions and ideals. 'l'o rename a building 'be<Jause ·' someone donated money to re11ovate and put on an addition is to go back '()n those traditions and ideals. I woUld like to urge people to fight the pr()posal to .change the name of Cargenie to. something else. I want to see Carnegie Hall written on the front of the building once again. I .appeal to you juniors and seniors who remember Carnegie as it really was to stand up and' give your opinions. · A possible proposal to the .Administration would be to put Carnegie on the front of the building and pula plaque in the atrium thanking the family for the donation, so the college could build the atrium. I cer- tainly feel that this is a reasonable :proposal. William H. Hardy Jr. pnion College Corporation Criticized To the Editor: Many of the administrators at Union College, here on referred to as the Company, have made it known that the major driving force behind their actions has been to increase short term profits. lbis action has taken place despite the fact that it lowers Company standards by increasing the average calss size, decreases student productivity by influencing work hours, and creates a general feeling of Wiease within the Company. Nevetheless, as a student here, I feel obliged to aid Union in its quest. Con- sequently, I have come up with the following suggestions that should help the . Union College · Corp. buy out Donald Trump after only two years of im- plementing my ideas. MyfU;st idea, Gel-Pay, shoUla provide the Company with a great . deal of money while providing much amusement for the student body and faculty alike. The Gel-Pay plan requires that administration get paid half their present salary and work for fifteen hours straight on Fridays and Saturdays. This would mean they would be working only thirty hours a week· as opposed to forty. The irony to this, of course, is that many of the administrators work at doing nothing, so by doing less, they will actually be working more. The method of enacting it is crucial to ·its success. First a questionnaire asking the ad- ministrators what they think of the Gel-Pay proposal should be passed around.. Then, the responses should be carefully reviewd, statistically analysed, and decisively ignored. Finally, the plan should be nlaced in effect ()n atwoDyear trial period. When the two years are up, the Gel-Pay system Shollld be kept and everyoll.e· should have a good lau;gh and say tllat Hitler was supJX>sed to have a finite term in ()fn.ce as W\lll. Presently, stud.ents are charged for the meals they do not eat. Undet- my new plan, students would not only be charged a .fiJCed rate for dining services as tb~y presently are, but an additi()nal charge for the food they do eat would be in:- curred. Fol.\ instance, if a student were to eat at the Skellar, he -woul!l have to present llis me.al card and then have to pay the cost of the food ordered. N·ext, since stu.ctents are required to J>uy books for theil\ classes and there is only one place to purl!hase :them, the already olltrageo.us prices shOuld be doubled. Fur- thermore, sillce.no one would be able to afford:t:be bo()ks, a Union College Mortgage Rank should be estalllisheci With rates only slightly abo:ve the prime to enable stude11ts to buy their course boob. AlSI}., to really rake in the dough, when the books for the coUJ.\se are not available .(wllich ha:.s never :not happen eel to me), the student should be ch~tged.e:xtra for the special order; Tuiti()ns are already too high and ha:ve priced ()>Ut .a lot of eunslispecting students who naively believ-e that to be their . major cost here. Fllrtherm()re, with the tuitions as high as they are Uni<m mi~ht be placed on Spy me~ga2ine's \Colleges for the Dum Rich\ list which would mean bad pu!)licity. Ultfmately, lowering tU.itions (not too much! ) collld mean mol.\e money. InBtead, efforts should be placed at accepting more students. Everyone who applies should be ac(!epted. This will ensure democratic equality for aU (provided, of course, that they can. pay). The financial aid program should he eliminated, and since Union was Un· successful in their attempt to make a par-king lot near Kappa Alpha when they camped out, the administration should ereci permanent tents there so that they can house fifty or _more freshmen. Then, they should get security to give them parkQ!g tickets every morning claiming the place iS in fact a parking lQt. While, Security and Safety has always been quite adept . at generating income with parking tickets, if the charges were increased (since the frequency -at which they are given can· not!) there would undoubtedly be.violentrepercussions and the lives of many security officers ~would be in jeop!lrdy. Finally, the administration should put a halt to the flyers and other forms of related jWlk- mail that accumulate in the garbages near the mailboxes. The photocopying costs for one semester alone must be astronomical. A rough est4Date shows this to be true. There are 2,000 students; multiply that with 30 weeks in a year and five mailing da~s in a week times .8 (the average nlliilber of pages of college junk mail per day) and you will get 240,000. Multiply this by .10 and you will see that it costs $24,000 to rpoduce all the mail that few, if any, ever read. Furthermore, it seems contrary to ad· ministrations's ideology to keep students informed. In con- clusion, I am sure that the administl\lition has already considered these proposals anyway. (Except possibly for Gel-Pay). Cevin Soling THE JEWISH-CHRISTIAN DIALOGUE COMMIT1'EE PRESENTS: .. THE SIGNIFICANCE OF ISRAEL Following the program there· will be a reception in roan 409 cc. SPOOSORED BY THE RELIGIOUS PROGRAMS OFFICE liND TilE: J$'1Sll{OOOS'l'J:..At'l· ·oiALCGUE C\CMMITi'EE. GUEST PANELlSTS: Professor !-lartin Edelman : Chair of Department oE Polit:i·cal Science, ,stJNY Albany Professor George Irani : Viniting Professor of Mi.ddle Eastern Studies, College of st. Rose Professor Conor Cruise O'Brien ; Visiting Lamont Professor., Union College I'DDERA'IOR : Professor Stephen i3erk, Department of Histo:ry 1 Uni6~ CX>llege WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 1988 8:00 P.M. COLLEGE CENTER 410 existen~e of co-op housing while students have been counting on this important option. KEEP THE Sincerely, Lorie Anderson '89 Jessica Eisenberg '89 Maria Kapogiannis '89 Lakshmi Vadlamudi '89 :CARNEGIE NAME

CONCORDIENSJS~ April 14, 1988 Page 15 ··:_...,_.. ... ~, ·. · Students Defend Endeavor to Edueate '-. -· . \ -. - . \ . \ - -- - . - - .· . - ._ . -- . - - - ' ' - ,. · T<> the Editor.: We are writbtg in response to. the slanderous · letter to the editpr that .aypeared in last week's Comc~tdiensis (April 7, 1~88) . ,']homas Christopher wrote a lEtt~r. entitled \CPR KnGwled!leBenefits All.'' While rom's 1,1rtiele attempts to \inspire'' much of the college populatioll: to take his courses hi CPR and. thus help the com- munity, llis.article also belittles the first aid training given by the New York State Emergency Medical S~rvice ;(EMS)., and the American Red Cross {ARC). Please bave it be known that we feel tile more people that know CPR the. better. This letter is' no way trying to ~·lessen the importance of CPR. Attempting to educate the entire college community may be a s1i~btly large endeavor, however ii it comes to pass that the. whole community does learn CPR, Union will benefit in more waysthan one, We would like to direct the readers' attention to the le~ter Tom. wrote. The portion of the· article th~t we would considet ''slanderous\ is the first paragraplt 'Tom, your article may have taken more .root in. tile cotmntmity if you had done some very minor research concerning the \overzealous student rescuers.\ We would have been mote than happy to discuss the proposals subrnitted to the administration con~ cerning the emergency health care at Union, of which we shall now do. The proposal th~t Dave Markenson and I have , sub- mitted t() the administration is not simply. a request for .per\ mission to use first aid on campus. We are, in fact, trying to supply a service in the un- fortunate case of an accident. We are tr~ining students, faculty lllld staff in first aid and CPR. Alld we have an ad- ditional task, which is to not only serve the . Union com- munity, bttt also the community within .Schenectady. This will . be done in a variety of ways. We have .a permanent seat on the American Red Cross Com- mittee on Safety and Health Education in Schenectady, we volurttE:Jer serviCes to Eed Cross sponsored events, and we are active ~in the corrimunity tea~hi~~t.the QeCe$S~ry COlll\Se~ to pr·omote safety; This last pointis:done in conjtrn.ction with. Union C()llege so tha't Union and the eity Qf Schen~ctady can become more unified and work . together in public safety. Unfortunately, your letter boasts a grossly warped .per- ception of thl ''student rescuers.\ '11om .mentioned that ,, .. ,it may be argued that overzealous student rescuers wili .ham,per the. well' tt-ained para-professionals of the Schenectady Fire 'D~part­ ment.\ We are \well trained Para-Professionals'' and. so are a lot of · other E.M.T ;s (~mergeney Medical Techl;licians), First Respon· ders, etc. currently atteJ:Jding Union .. Many of them have als() volunteered their services to the Union College \student_ .rescuers.\ Any student wh.o is not an E.M.T. and is par- ticipating on this. squad is . required to be at least a New York :St'ate First ReSp()nder andlor ·have certification in Amel'ican Red Cross Advanced First Aid (ARC AFA) ... 1Jhese .students will always be ac,. ·companied by an E.M.T. if an emergency Should occur. The level of training that both of these courses offer allows them to be recognized as Pre-E.M. T. courses, Currently there are· 21 people (both tJ nion students 11nd Staff) enrolled in a New York State First Responder <lOtll'Se; taught i>Y Darrin D' Agostino, through ContinUing Education here at Union. This· course jointty certifies those students in .ARC AF A and .CPR ( cer- tification by Dave Markenson): The .. course is given for two reasons. First, because the Union comm1.1Ility (ani! any community for that matter) does need people wbo can provide · immediate care or · Basic Life Support (BLS} in · case of an emergency situation. Second, because many of the students plan on becoming initial members of the · emergency first · aid squad being proposed to tbe ad- ministration. Thes.e students truly wisb to help in the ease of an emergency; and understand that they would not be able to unless properly trained. Finally, I- would like to ·mention that the proposal that Dave Markenson and I have submitted to the adniinistration . . was drafted under the guidance .of the American Red Cross (Peggy Anderson),, ·the N.Y. State Department of Health (John Clair) and the Schenectady Fire Department (Deputy Fire Chief 'Stephen Spink). We are in constant contact with tbe above· men~ · tioned adviso:r:y groups, and have received their permission to begin such an endeavor. The system proposed' would be a student BLS squad that woUld be the first EMS response. One of the first steps in any crisis situatin is to activate the local EMS. EMS includes the Schenectady Fire .Dep~rtment, Mohawk ambul:ance service, or even a student run BI.S unit. If Advanced Life Support ( ALS) is needed, it is called by the Bl.S unit. We feel that a College based unit would decrease the amount of time it would take an <>ff campus. unit to respond. I would like to mention at this time thatStephen Spink has told us that such a squad would '':',.take some of the burden off of an overburdened system .. :; and that \ ... anyone who is trained to -deliver. HIS, can deliver BI.S.'' In .other words a volunteer {or student) E.M.T. or First Responder or Paramedic is just as qualified as one who wonld be paid, Tom; if you are an advocate of helping people as your artiCle sugges~, don't attempt to bad mouth others who are at- tempting to do the same. You are certified' to teach by the American Red Cross, I ,know for a fact they are constantly trying to unite all efforts of Emergency Care, and this includes First Aid, CPR, E.M.T., and many more. CPR is only one small piece of the entire picture. Do not . un- derestimate the other crucial aspects of Basic Life Support. Darrin D' Agnostino NYSE.M.T. NYS EMS FirstResponder Instructor Supervising Director UCEMS Dave Markenson ARCCPRand First Aid Instructor Schenectady ARC Health and Safety Committee member Fire Medic~ I Chief of operations UCEMS ORIGlNAL AND RECERTIFICATION WHEN:· WEDNESDAY, AP:RIL 20, 23 ' TIME: 2-6 PM PLACE: HUMANITIES 01 g lNF0 · COt~TACT DAVIDfv1AR.KENSON 370-691_3 or BOX 137'1 ALL MATERIALS WILL BE GIVEN O·UT AT FIRST CLASS.·· i'- PEOPLE WISHING RECERTIFICATION SHOULD BRING .EXPIRED CPR CARD (lF POSSIBLE) IF YOU CAN NOT BE AT CLASS BY 2PM EITHER CONTACT DAVID MARKBNSON OR SHOW UP AT FIRST WEON:ESDAY CLASS BEFORE 6PM LENGTH OF CLASS DEPENDS ON NUMBER OF STUDENTS. StUUENTS·PROGRESS AND KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT LETTERS Dogs Display Model B'ehavior To the Editor: My parents had a dog before tbey bad me .. Throughout my life, we have had a family dog. Dogs bave ;been a part of many people~s lives, and it's likely that you know a few people who own dogs. Many works of literature make mention of, or directly involve dogs, including the Bible, Chaucer's \Can- terbury Tales,'' Arthur Conan Doyle's The H~und of the Baskervilles .('hound' is a synonym for 'dog'), · and Milton's \Paradise Lost.'' (Well, I've never checked, but a poem that long must have the word •dog' in it somewhere.) Representations of dogs can be f()und in many famous works of art, such as .. , such as .. , the RCA label!!. And, of ceurse, many proverbs, parables, and words of wisdom concern dogs- ''Only mad dogs and Englishmen .go out in the midday sun:\- \It's a dog's life\ - \a dog is man's best friend\ - \I wc:~uldn't feed that to my dog! \ - . and so on. Yet, despite the wealth of evidence supporting the major role of dogs in the life of mankind, dogs are blatantly discriminated against on Union's grounds. . I am an atumnus of this school, and so is my dog. He lived heJ,'e for an entire year, under an. assumed name, of course. When I came back for Homecoming, he was visibly more excited to be back than was I~ He was thrilled with the new College- Center, which I was not, because many of his cld friends hang out there, and mine do not, and· because he and his friends are colorblind, and mine are not. My dog runs around, chases squirre1s, and does his bit to \save the grass\ and make it greener. Basil is quite an attractive mutt, and receives flattering remarks from admirers of all sexes, ages~ races, and academic majors, In this way, he .serves to bring together the members of thjs community, breaking down barriers of prejudice and racism. He has slept through lectures in the Humanities Department, has sat quietly through musical and theatrical performances in the Arts Building, has frequented parties at D •Chi, barbeques at Chi•Psi, has fought over. members of tile opposite sex, and otherwise conducted himself like any other student here. , Only in a few particulars has Basil not imitated the behavior of his human neighbors. He's never left th~ kitchen a mess; never littered his sleeping quarters with clothes and debris; never drank ·himself sick; never forced anyone else to drink himself sick; never stolen a stere() or microwave oven; never broken a street light or yanked out a parking sign; never sexually harassed or raped a woman; and has never shown a selfish disregard for ,his neighb()rs' feelings by insisting on brillging .p()rn ·films to campus. He was bit by a car Qn campus, right in front of his house, but bas never sought revenge by driving. at break- neckspeed tllrough the campus. The point is, there are many issues more pressing than the presence of dogs. on campus which demand the attention of both the st11dent body and the administration - issues which involving people hurting other people. There are those at this school who bave committed offenses that I think would merit expulsion, but, for some reason, are still seen in classes, at parties, and participating in school spOilS() Fed. activities. I'm sure that if we were as doggedly determined not to tolerate disruptive individuals on this campus, as some have been to keep the dogs out, we would be moving forward to establish an 'atmosphere of academic integrity, mutual respect, and openmindedness. Let sleeping dogs lie, and don't kick a dog when he's down. Peace arid carrots, Dave Wasser '87 The Student Support Group will meet on Tuesday, A.pril 19 at 8 ·p.m. in the Religious 'Programs Office. Fo.r More Information, Call Gail At X4144 . SPRING TERM · · Statistical Lab Hours SS-001 Sunday thru Thursday 7 pm-11 pm Tuesday and Thursday 2:30 pm-4:30 pm Wednesday and Friday 3:15 pm-5:15 pm The Ivy League Year in New York Qualified upperclassmen are irtvited to applr for admlssiPn t(' Columbia College as visiting students beginning in September 1988. Full atcess to housi_ng. library re5C1Urtes, and upper din sion courses. For further information and an .applicatiPn. writl' or call: Columbia College Admi:;sicms Ottice 212 HamHton Hall :\\ew York. ~e\\' YNk l00~7 12}21 280-25~1

· Page 16 .. rp~[Rl~.~r~~ WlElErK~fMlO) CONCORDIENSIS, Ap~il 14, 19·88. GU-ARANTEED . -lNG. q:UALIFIED BUY·ERS!* . F r i' d.a y through .lMJ£W .® Sunday· ~~~w ·~J FROM FORD 10 MINIMAt. ASSIST WITH YOIJR · DO·WN P.AYME'NT. ~incC .9LccomocCations for :Your Parents 'J\{pw! GIVE YQ'U:RSELF A NEW FORD FOR GRADUATION. YOU W'ORKED HARD, YOU DESERV:E IT! *With Pr.operQllalificatfons. CALL FOR DETAILS: 799 CENTRAL AVE. AL8ANY, NY'12206 489-5414 RESE.RVE OI'I'ICERS' TRAINING CORPS Olnnrnrb i.ensia Urges The Student Body and Community Members to Make a Difference. YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS TIE ONE YOU COlJLD TAKE THIS SUMMER. Army-ROTC Camp Challenge. It's·exciting and itmay be your last opportunity to grad- uate with an Army Officer's commission. ~~ , . Find Out More Contact: VOTE THIS NOVEMBER __ AIMY_····-· _· _B_O_Tc_· __ Cpt. Russell A~ Rosati THE SMARTEST COLlEGE · (518) 783-2571 COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. CLASS OF 'BB· YOU'RE INVITED TO ATTEND : A COMMENCEMENT EXERCISE . If you've graduated, or will grad- uate, with a Bachelor's or advanced degree between October 1. 1987 and January 31, 1989, you're invited to attend a commencement exercise at Jack Byrne . You · may qualify tor $400 from Ford and pre-approved credit from Ford Motor Credit Company. To qualify for pre-appr~>Ved credit, you need: (1) verifiable employment begin- ning within 120 days after your vehicle purchas.e; (2) a salary sufficient to cover normal living expenses plus a car payment; and (3) if you have a credit record. it ~i c.OLLec;: must indicate payment made c.,'V ~ c as agreed. · ~ :-r The $400 from Ford is yours ·~ ~ whether you finance or not. Keep n ~ · ;;: or apply ·itto t~e purchase or lease S ;:;:. - .of an eligible Ford or Mercury ~ vehicle. <+~' For all the details, contact us or Sf p~o 0 call Program Headquarters, toll free, at 1-800-'321-1536. But hurry. This limited time. offer is only available between March 1 and December 31 ;1'988. So take advantage of the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program now~ JACK BYRNE FORD & MERCURY WHEN: MARCH 1, 19B8..:DECEMBER 31, 1988 FOR: • PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREIJIT • $400 CASH BONUS FROM FORD JACK BYRNE F'ORD· & MERCURY JCT. RTS. 4 & 32, MECHANICVILlt, NY12118 PH 664-\9841 I-lOURS: MON. THUR THURS. 9 AM.- 9 PM; FRI. 9 AM- SPM; SAT. 9 AM- SPM / I I ! . I I

· Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, April 14, 1988 GUARANTEE,D FINANCING QUALIF,ED BUYE:RS!~* Friday 1~li\Y through Sunday FROM FORD TO ASSIST WITH YOUR PURCHASE!* 6 1~1~\\Y J3 MINIMAl DOWN PAYMENT .. :,rind _91_ccomodations for 'Your Parents tj{pw! GIVE YOURSELF A NEW F~ORD FOR GRADUATION~. YOU WORKED HARD, YOU DESERV·E IT! *With Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DETAILS: 799 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, NY 122D6 489-5414 RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS a.tnntnrl1 i.enllill Urges The Student Body and Community Members to Make a Difference. YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS THE ONE YOU COULD TAKE THIS SUMMER. Army ROTC Camp Challenge. It's·exciting and it may be your last opportunity to grad- uate with an Army Officer's corrunission. --- Find Out More Contact: VOTE THIS NOVEMBER __ ARMY __ R_O_TC __ Cpt. Russell A. Rosati THE SMARTEST COLLEGE (518) 783 2571 COURSE YOU tAN TAKE. • CLASS OF '88 YOU'RE INVITED TO AITEND A COMMENCEMENT EXERCISE If you've graduated. or will grad- uate. with a Bachelor's or advanced degree between October 1. 1987 and January 31. 1989, you're invited to attend a commencement exercise at Jack Byrne . You may qualify tor $400 from Ford and pre-approved credit from Ford Motor Credit Company. To qualify for pre-approved credit, you need: (1) verifiable employment begin- ning within 120 days after your vehicle purchase; (2) a salary sufficient to cover normal living expenses plus a car payment: and (3) if you have a credit record. it '• . ' -'~,, must indicate payment made as agreed. The $400 from Ford is yours whether you finance or not. Keep it or apply it to the purchase or lease of an eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle. For all the details, contact us or call Program Headquarters, toll free. at 1-800-321-1536. But hurry. This limited time offer is only available between March 1 and December 31.1988. So take advantage of the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program now. JACK BYRNE FORD & MERCURY WHEN: MARCH 1, 1988-.::DECEMBER 31, 1988 FOR: • PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT • $400 CASH BONUS FROM FORD JACK BYRNE F'ORD & MERCURY JCT. RTS. 4 & 32, MECHANICVILLE, NY12118 PH. 664-9841 HOURS: MON. THUR THURS. 9 AM- 9 PM; FRI. 9 AM- 6PM; SAT. 9 AM- 5PM !! I '

I CONCORDIENSIS, April ~4, 1988 Page 17 • -=: ..... · ... ··. ·. 'jq ' ' --·' ,, ' .'F . '. ... .: ~ ' ' ~ ..... . . ' •, The ·_Dt~:t~h Pipers Myth or Reality By TONY MOI.tONE For those of you who are unfamiliar with this old Union· College tradition, ·the Dutch Piper$· are a four part men's siriging group- · With tuxedos! The Pipers first arose in the 1930's,.40's,. and continued singing until the group dissolved in the late 60's. They re-formed in the mid to late 70's, and are 'still going strong today. The elections for 19~9 were held at the end of winter tertn. The_ new officers are: Director• 1\ndy Livernois, Manger- Tony Morone, Assistant Manager- Dave Sherman. other munbers include: Jeff Hirschman, Mike Convertino, Bruce Oster, Mark Hutchins, Marc Howard, Wil ShieldS, and· Dave Kohl. Since Septen1ber, the Pipers have performed. at Lamont House for Homecoming Weeknd, par ... ticipated in several Cabatets ~t the College 'Ce11ter, and also • _offered a concert In con- junction with the Garnet . MinstreUes in tl:te Arts Atriwn. Spring term looks to be an . active one. The Pipers per- formed at Wells 'College last weekend and wilL participate in variorur Ca_barets throughout the term. You can also catch them in concert during Parents Weekend. If you're unsure about this group, listen to what the critics say: - \OutrageotJS a work of art ! \ - Rolling Stone - \If only Mozart could hear what theytve done to music.\ - Billboard - \Mark Hutchili.s is a comic of immeasurable capacity. He truly brings some <!olor to this bunch of shower room street comer singers.' ' - Time -\De£! Too <leffor words!\- Beat Magazine _ · WANTED: TECHNICAL SUPPORT FOR PIPPlN Any Amount Of Ti.me I Anytime M,WJ 1:30-5:30 T, TH 2:30- 5:30 . -- ASK FOR JOHN OR MIKE.AT 370-6158 ' 2 ARTS & FILMS An Ice Review By GARY P ASTIZZO Students who were fortunate to be on campus during tile weekend of March 25 and Zfi had the opportunity to see \Ice Fantasies 1988\. This Sllow was presented by the .Achilles Figure Skating Chtb, and sancti()ned by the United States Figure Skating Associatian. The theme of the show \Bac~ in Time\ was centered aroWld a time traveler who t()()k a trip through time from the Dark Ages to the future, making stops at different time periods in- clUding the 1770's, 1920's, and 1950's. The· role of the time traveler was skate.:&, by Gary Pastizzo. Pastizzo; a Sl)phomore pre-medical student here at Union, has skated 'With the Acilles Figure Skating Club for two years.. He is an active competitor, recently taking home a silver medal from tbe Empire Stat-e Games this past February in Lake Placid. Four other medal winners also participated in the show as soloists.: Eric Marshall, Michael Healey, Megan Ken- ney, and Vikki Parker. Another Union student, Karen Schaeffer, also skated in a feature number of the show. She performed as a majorette, skating a series of precision moves choreographed to a selection of marching music, Schaeffer,a freshman at Union, is a computer science major. This was the skating club's 11th annual show. The· club is one of the largest qn the East Coast, with over one hundred skaters perfonning in their annual show, including this year's guest star Jon DePaz of Boston, Massachusetts. The skaters in the club range in ability from novice to ad- vanced. Everyone in the club is asked to participate in the annual show, which is em- bellished with props and lighting effects to make for an entertaining evening. This year's show finished with an exciting tribute to the 1988 Olympics. The cast from the second half of the show carried flags of the colors which form the five rings of the Olympic flag. Next spring break, if you are in the ar~, come and see some exciting skating performed by local area skaters and Union students. ****WIN**** TWO THEATRE TICKETS . Raffles are held on Fridays in the Dutch Hollow Restaurant between 11 :45 am and 12:45 pm. Winners are drawn at 12:45 pm and must be present to win. Chances are free with any purchase in the Dutch Hollow or can be purchased for 5()¢ at the Information Booth. You need only be here to win. Raffle/ Orawing.Date April 15 April 29 May6 Theatre Production Proctor's Theatre \South Pacific\ Performance Date Thu., Apr. 21 8:00pm Proctor's Theatre \ Momix\ Thu., May 5 8:00pm Proctor's Theatre Canadian Brass Fri., May 13 8:00pm Institute Continues With Noontime Presentations By ELIZABETH BERLINER. The Albany Institute of Ernrtory and JUt continues tts series of Noontime Presen- tations throughout May with an examination of 19th century Japanese Art and its correlation to the art of the West. These lectures serve as further enhancement of the museum's three new exhibits: The Art of ~apan, Japan the Fad, and Impressions of a New Civilization: The Lincoln Kirstein Collection of Japanese Prints, 1860-1912. These will be on display from mid-April to July. On 'l'hursdar., May 5, Julia Meech·Pek.arik from the Metropolitan Musewn of Art will initiate the lecture series by exploring the topic of the World of Meiji Print. Two weeks later, on Thurs- day, May 19, Steven Kern from the Museum of Fine Arts in Springield, MA will discuss Japonism: The Influence of Japanese Art on the West. Concluding this educational trilogy will be speaker J. Thomas Rimer from the University of Maryland. He will examine the topic of Paris in Japan: The Japanese Encounter with European Painting. The Noontime Presentations are free to t}le public and have been made posSible by funding from the New York State Jounc11 on Arts, the Worn~ 's CoWlcil of the Albany and the Travelers Companies Fowtdation. The performances are held in the auditorium at the Institute in downtown Albany at 125 Washington Avenue, Thur- sdays, beginning at12:10p.m. THIS WEE·K'S ON CAMPUS MOVIES CAMP 'HOLLYWOOD MEETI.NG A.PRlL 15-17 7, 9, AND 11 PM \IT SHOULDN'T BE ·MISSED.\ -Cioriotlne Moold, ML\111 H£RALD \DEUmf; WAGGISH FUN!' -hollui-.VUN:~m FROM. RUSSIA WITH LOVE StARRINGSEANCONNERV APRIL20th AT 7, 9,AND11 ALL SHOWS ARE $1 TO UNION ST\JDENTS. ALL SHOWING IN THE COLLEGE CENTER AUO. PLEASE NO FOOO·OR DRINK ALLOWED. 7:30 P.M. TONIGHT 2nd Floor Haskins Lab Behind Arts Building Anyone interested in f~lming, acting or editing is welcome. No .. expertence \ ~ecessary. •..

I CONCORDIENSIS 1 A.JHil 14 1 1988 Page 17 ••• •• ·'It' - ~- The Dutch Pipers Myth or Reality By TONY MORON·E For those ef you who are unfamiliar with this old Union College tradition, the Dutch Piper~ are a four part men's singing group- with tuxedos! The Pipers first arese in the 1930's-40's, and continued singing until the group dissolved in the late 60's. They re-formed in the mid to late 70's, and are still going strong today. The elections for 1988-89 were held at the end of winter term. The new officers are: Director- Andy Livernois, Manger- Tony Morone, Assistant Manager- Dave Sherman. Other numbers include: Jeff Hirschman, Mike Convertino, Bruce Osler, Mark Hutchins, Marc Howard, Wil Shields, and Dave Kehl. Since September, the Pipers have performed at Lamont House for Homecoming W eeknd, par- ticipated in several Cabarets at the College Cen.ter, and also offered a concert in con- junctitm with the Garnet Minstrel'les in the Arts Atrium. Spring tenn looks to be an active one. The Pipers per- formed at Wells 'College last weekend and will participate in various Cabarets throughout the term. You can also catch them in concert during Parents Weekend. If you're mtsure about this group, listen to what the critics say: - \Outrageous a work of art!\ - Rolling Stone - \If only Mozart could hear what they've done to music.\ - Billboard - \Mark Hutchins is a comic of immeasurable capacity. He truly brings some color to this bunch of shower room street corner singers.\ - Time - \Def! Too def for words!\- Beat Magazine WAN'TED: TECHNICAL SUPPORT FOR PIPPIN Any Amount Of Time~ Anytime M,W,F 1:30-5:30 T, TH 2:30-5:30 ASK FOR JOHN O;R MIKE AT 370-6158 !£! ARTS & FILMS An Ice Review By GARY PASTLZZO Students who were fortunate to be on campus during the weekend of March ~ and 26 had the opportunity to see \Ice Fantasies 1988\. This show was presented by the Achilles Figure Skating Club, and sanctioned by the United States Figure Skating Association. The theme of the show \Back in Time\ was centered around a time traveler who took a trip through time from the Dark Ages to the future, making stops at different tinle periods in- cluding the 177()'s, 1920's, and 1950's. The role of the time traveler was skated. by Gary Pastizzo. Pastizzg; a sophomore pre-medical student here at UBion, has sk:ated with the Acilles Figure Sltatmg Club for two years. He is an active competitor, recently taking home a silver medal from the Empire State Games this past February in Lake Placid. Four other medal winners also participated in the show as soloists: Eric Marshall, Michael Healey, Megan Ken· Bey, and Vikki Parker. Another Union student, Karen Schaeffer, also skated in a feature number of the show. She performed as a majorette, skating a series of precision moves choreographed to a selection of marching music. Schaeffer,a freshman at Union, is a computer science major. This was the skating club's 11th annual show. The club is one of the largest qn the East Coast, with over one hundred skaters performing in their annual show, incl11diJng thLs year's guest star Jon J)ePaz of Boston, Massachusetts. The skaters in the club range in ability from novice to ad- vanced. Everyone in the club is asked to participate in the annual show, which is em- bellished with pro!)S and lighting effects to make for an entertaining evening. This year's show finished with an exciting tribute to the 198.8 Olympics. The cast from the second half of th>e show carried flags of the colors which form the five rings of the Olympic flag. Next spring break, if you are in the area, come and see some exciting skating performed by local area skaters and Union students. ****WIN**** TWO THEATRE TICKETS Raffles are held on Fridays in the Dutch Hollow Restaurant between 11 :45 am and 12:45 pm. Winners are drawn at 12:45 pm and must be present to win. Chances are free with any purchase in the Dutch Hollow or can be purchased for 50¢ at the Information Booth. You need only be here to win. Raffle/ Drawing Date April 15 April 29 May 6 Theatre Production Proctor's Theatre \South Pacific\ Performance Date Thu., Apr. 21 8:00pm Proctor's Theatre \ Momix\ Thu., May 5 8:00pm Proctor's Theatre Canadian Brass Fri., May 13 8:00pm Institute Continues With Noontime Presentations By ELIZABETH BERLINER The Albany Institute of History and Art continues its series of Noontime Presen- tations throughout May with an examination of 19th century Japanese Art and its correlation to the art of the West. These lectures serve as further enhancement of the musewn's three new exhibits: The Art of Japan, Japan the Fad, and Impressbns of a New Civilization: The Lincoln Kirstein Collection of Japanese Prints, 1860-1912. These will be on display from mid-April to July. On Thursday, May 5, Julia Meech-Pekarik from the Metropolitan Musewn of Art will initiate the lecture series by exploring the topic of the World of Meiji Print. Two weeks later, on Thurs- day, May 19, Steven Kern from the Museum of Fine Arts in Springield, MA will discuss Japonism: The Influence of Japanese Art on the West. Concluding this edu<!ational trilogy will be speaker J. Thomas Rimer from the University of Maryland. He will examine the topic of Paris in Japan: The Japanese Encounter with European Painting. The Noontime Presentations are free to tP.e public 831d have been made possible by funding from the New York State ~uncil on Arts, the Women's Council of the Albany and the Travelers Companies Foundati()n. The performances are held in the auditorium at the Institute in downtown Albany at 1Z5 Washington Avenue, Thur- sdays, beginniHg at 12:10 p.m. THIS WEEK'S ON CAMPUS MOVIES CAMP HOLL VWOOD MEETING APRIL 15-17 7, 9, AND 11 PM \IT SHOULDN'T BE MISSED.\ -om..;,., Amold, IIIAMIH.EIL\I.D \DEUCATE WAGGISH FUN.'' -htJ,i~YliJ...\(,lj;l'OQ FROM RUSSIA WITH LOVE STARRING SEAN CONNERY APRIL 20th AT 7, 9, AND i 1 ALL SHOWS ARE $1 TO UNION STUDENTS. ALL SHOWING IN THE COLLEGE CENTER AUD. PLEASE NO FOOD OR DRINK ALLOWED. 7:30 P.M. TONIGHT 2nd Floor Haskins Lab Behind Arts Building Anyone interested in filming, acting or editing is welcome. No • experience necessary.

Page 1S CONCORDIENSJS, April 14, 1988 A_R_T_S_&_· F_I_·LM_._s ____ ·--=- .____ .. -------_...a,;·· j:f~ Faithful Performance By KATIE BOYD Uaion's Vera Orlock began Sunday's performance of \Leap of Faith\ dancing· to an over- flowing audience. Unfor- twlately, I wa5 one in the overflow section,... banished with a crowd of others to . the shoe scattered hall. s~rry ... no room at the Studio. Stuck in the hall I found my vision severely restricted, but what I could see I appreciated as 'leaps of faith' in human relationships. Orlock's movements, and those of the two other dancers expressed birth, awakening, a joining together of individuals, and their eventual separation. Craig Smnmers, a junior lucky enough to have fotlr1d a seat, commented, while hedidnot understand the dance he found it \mesmerizing.\ Fortunately for the next act le5s space was needed and the overflow crowd found seats- ori the floor. Magician Jim Snack began his act by announcing he was a fraud. ''No you;te not,\ a five year old chUd shouted. A hush fell on the audience (consisting of adults, students, and many younger children) as we pondered the idea of honest magic. ' Finally the five year old cleared up the issue, \You are not a frog,.1J you're a man!\ This opening was terrific as was the rest of this magical per- formance. Snack included the . audience in his. magic; from little Morgan tapping on the silver cups to discover lemons underneath, are two· adults with the same birthday who picked the same card out of two different decks. The kids were not alone in their open-mouthed amazement, everyone seemed enchanted, amazed, Sculptor/Painter to Lecture at Union Ry ELIZABETH BERLINER In sync with the ever- changing fashion tren~ and media modes, the art world ml!St also experience· change and evolution. Sculptor and artist Sondra Freckelton has been active for the past 25 years in utilizing these changing art styles in the content of her work as an American artist. On Wednesday, ·April 20, she will ~ examine the topic of \The Abstract and the Real\· in a presentation at the Arts b-uilding bere on campus. Freckelton is originally from Michigan, and studied at the School of the Art Institute and the Univt'lrsity in Chicago. Fabulous exhibitions of her recent sculptures have been seen at the Museum of Fine aarts in aoston, and in 1979, she toak part in a. display of .band- colored prints in the Brooke Alexander Gallery. From then ort, her interest in. prints and watercolors flourished. She received several invitations to display her work in numerous private galleries throughout the ·united States, including such cities as New York, San Francisco, Chicago, and Washington, DC. . ARTS BRIEFS AT CAFI<'E LENA THEATRE ••• .. bewildered, and delighted. Snack kept reminding the audience that he _was merely a conjourer- the audience t~ok the essential leap of faith to see the magic. The next 'event' was Galligan's and Durlak's per- formance~ This double slide show (accompanied by music associated with and containing the word faith) was great·ly hindered by the limitations of the Art's building. While two screens of slides were shoV\'Il less than half the audience saw both and I hadto struggle to see one screen well. The· hall used was stuffy and cramped, the floor where we were to sit was cold and hard. And the frustrations created. by these surroundings tainted the per- formance and may have been a reason why I found the barrage of images and scratchy· recording of the music un· comfortably confounding rather than pleasantly puzzling. I just did not know wbat message bad been presented .regarding leaps of faith. Yet, when the artists called for question, I was silent. I was not interested in unravelling the performanee. I wanted to leave, to escape 1rom it. I blame the surroundings only for my impatience, not my overwhelming confusion. Her latest produc.tions ar ·part of a travelling exhibition. entitled,. \Prints by C()n- temporary American Women Artists,\ and \The Food Show\ at the Bronx Museum. The lecture will begin at 11:00 in a room of the Arts building t() be, posted tbat evening. 'The program is free and all are welcome. \Theatre H~use\ a theme residence on the Skidmore Campus will present Clifford OdeLS'1920's dnuna Gold~ Boy at 8 p.m. on April Jgth- 21st Golden Doy will be lh.: groups second off-campus perl'onnanc:e. For resexvations and information call SSJ-0()22. On Friday and Saturday, April 15th and 16th, Cafe Lena will present highly acclaimed folk anist Oscar Brand. The shows will b<lth b~ at 8:30, please call for reservations. · AT SUNY'S l)AGE HALL ... Empire State black Arts and Cultural Festival presents Amateur Night Auditions arc on April23rd and 30th from 2 p.m. - 4 p.m. at the Albany's Boys Club. Youth, young adult and adult categories. The final production willtdke place al Slllly on. May 31st at 7 p.m. and adnrusion is $5. AT UNIVERSITY 01<, ALBANY UPTOWN CAMPUS ••• Poets Don Dyrd and Susan Fantl Spivack, and fiction writer Elizabeth Adams will participate in a readi~g to benefit the litcr:ary jt!umal GRQUNPSWELL. The reading will begin at 7 p.m. Friday, April 29th, in room 354 of the Humanities Euilding on the Upto.wn Camfus. Admission is by donation: $3 fot subscribers and $5 for non-subscribers. A reception follows the reading. · ~.....a-.o..,.._~-D~~-~,...~~- Rensselaer Union · Calendar of Events APRIL 1988 fW Staines Yod/ler extraordinaire April71h - 91h at 8:30PM in MaUler's Wme .Emporium · Free/RPI, $Z/Other Randef( Robinson speaks on Aoaflheid The P.soffery vocal ARCHIE & MEHITABEl CP/qyl Hypnotist Craig Karaes Eorrenheit \real'r ock 'n roll Sunday, AprD 1Oth at 6PM lrt CC308 $1/RPI, $2/0iher Ap0114-16 at 8:30PM in Mo1her's.Wine Bnporium · Fnie/RPI, $1/0!i1er Aprl115titll. 16th at SPM In the RPI Playhouse Friday, April 15th at 9PM in the Mc!llell Room SaturtlayApril16that9PM in the McNeil Room · M'A ·s·w- Aa Insiders View with Lorry LinviUe Mug Night wilb THE HfA@ANQ ARCHIE & MEHf[A BEl CP/qy) Sunday, Apr!\ 17th at aPMin Cc;308 $2/RPI, $410ther Monday, Apnl18!h at 9PM in the McNeil Roam April 21·23 al BPM in th~ RPLPiayho~se Watch for . Pippin Union Coll€lge Gospel Ensemble Back to the Arts Studei, somewhat sedated by the ex- perience of Galligan · and Durlak''s performance the drowd had diminished from that of 105 Jbin.utes earlier and everyone got a seat. The Union College Gospel Ensemble, a student activity in its thi.J;d year, gave an impressive mini- concert. The singers, under the direction of Leata Jackson, and president Stephanie ,Woodard, highlighted the leaps of faith necessary for religious beliefs. Tony Holston's solo of \Swing Low, Sweet Chariot\ was moving in its silllplicity. I was grateftil f()r the certainty of the gospel .singers. Their recognition and commitment to theleaps,of faith was·refreshing as a concrete statement after a torrent of abstracts. · Last week I wrote \L~aps of Faith'' promised to be an ex- citing, entertaining and stimulatiiig show. It fulfilled this pr()mise. . All God's · ChiiJun Got Wings·············~~··~~~-······· .A story. of unforgivable desire *Wash,· Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men . \ I . . j• I i Tanning 1 : ; ~ 1 Special ' . Tanning- I . Tanning i Sculptured . :1st Visit Free j j Special · I Special : : Nails & Tips : ! Wei!J~Iy :!I 50 Visits ! ! 100 Visits i l $24 95 i 6 Vtstls I, . i I $75.00 ' I reg. ;S,QO l __ $6.95 J i $49.95 •j ~~l!~-~~i~!:!_h~-i Walk-Ins Welcome *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad: 1307 Nott St.. 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady 370-4630 AILEEN & EtKIN THOMAS Texas iti Troy ' April21 23 at 8:30PM in Mothers Wme Emporilihl, FreeiRPl, $1/0lher IN CONCERT ' April 22 Concert Dale· Time and L~tion TBA Ann Dodson superb vocals April 28th -30th at 1!:30PM in Mothe~s Wine Emporium Free/RPI, $1/0iher 71Je f3ooeans rock 'a ron concert Friday, April291h at 9PM in lllll McNelt-Ro?m Admission: SliRPi 10, $310ther Coliege, $6/General Puonc WINNER OF THE 'BAITLE OF THE BA{VDS': PARANOIQ . . Oplming tor Paranoid: D~nled and Beaten Saturday, April.301h at BPM in the McNeil Room UPAC SHELNUTT GALLERY presents: 'FABLES FOR THE EIGHTIES' by Jellnlfer Childress llormon Shpl'l rnns: 4/1 Ht13 Receotjoo: 4112 @7PM in the Shelnutt Gallery Gallery hours Monday·Friday 1()AM·3PM GlllAND MAilSliiA~ WDllBIC APRIL 15-22 I SUNDAY, APRIL 24, 1988 AT 7 PM at Cong-regation Agudat Aehim 715-Union St., SCh~BJectady, NY Student Tickets $6.00 Reservations: Call Dave 372-9224 \ ¢ B.ENEFIT FOR YOUTH S.CHOLAR.SHIP ¢

CONCOll.DlEN.SlS,. April 14, 1988 Page 19 a 0 ARTS & FILMS ALL GOD'S CHILLUN . - ··GOT WINGS ... A Story Of Forbidden· :Love JQ .. JN THE UNION COLLEG.E for an afternoon of music 3:00 pm in the Memorial Chapel · Sunday, April 24th There Will Be A Reception Following The Concert ··' UNION COLLEGE CONTINUES Popular Film Series All films are shown in College Center Auditorium or in Social Sciences, Room 016. Admission is $1.00 except Tuesdays are free. · ' From Russia With Love April20 at 7, 9 & 11 p.m., CC Aud. Dirty Dancing April22 at 7, 9 & 11 p.m., CC Aud. E.T~ April 27 aL 7, 9 & l ~ p.,m.,. CC Aud. Th.row Momma From the Train Am:il29 at 7, 9 & 11 p.m., CC Aud. Mash May 3 at 9 & 1~1 p.m., SS 016 The Good, the Bad and the Ugly May 4 at 7 & 10 p.m., SS 016 Three Men and a Baby May 6 at 7, 9 & 11 p·:m., CC Aud. T:be Secret Policeman's Other Ball May 11 at 7, 9 & 11 p.m., CC Aud. Fatal Attraclion May 13 at 7, 9 & 11 p.m., CC. Aud. Witness May 17 at9 & 11 p.m., SS 016 The Wall May 1.8 at 7,9 & 11 p.m., SS 016 Good Morning Vie'tnam May 20 at 7, 9 & 11 p.m., CC Aud. J umpin' Jack Flash May 25 at 7 ~ 9 & 11 p.m., CC Aud. · Annie Hall May 31 at 9 & 11 p.m., SS 016 Angel Heart June 1 at 7, 9 & 11 p.m., CC Aud. Wall Street June 3 at 7, 9 & 11 p.m., CC Aud. . ' ~ ,. -_, - --:.. . \'. '' ~ ~G~T REf\.DY FOR THE PARTY· OF YOUR .LIFE Crossgates TH DOLLA THE. ULTIMATE PARTY 1 . . . . . Saturday, Apri130 ·Sunday, May 1, 1988 Fortune Air, Schenectady County Airport MICKEY THOMAS • CRAIG CHAQUICO • PETE SEARS • DONNY BALDWIN \. Mall Cinema Fri. &·Sat., ONLY 1 The Fox & The Hound 12:15, 2:30, 4:55 18 Again 7:20, 10:00 12:~0 2 Johnny Be Good 1 :55, 4:40, 7:55, 10:25 12:30 3 D.O.A. 1 :50, 4:45, 7:30, 10:05 12:20 4 Beetleju ice 1:25, 4:45, 7:30, 10:05 12:15. 5 Seventh Sign 1:30,4:30, 7:50, 10:3·0 12:35 6 Biloxi Blues 1:35, 4:20, 7:35, 10:15 12:30 7 Snowy River Part II 1:15, 4:10, 6:55,9:20 11:45 8 Bad Dreams 9 Bright Lights, Big City 1 0 Stand & Deliver 11 School Daze 12 Good Morning; Vietnam 12:40, 3:35, 7:05, 9:35 11 :50 12:55,3:40, 6:50,9:45 12:15 1 :00, 3:50, 6:45, 9:30 12:00 12:20 J 3:1 0, 6:15, 9:0011 :30 12:30, 3:25. 6:20, 9:10 11:50 Battles,- Barbarous and Bloody PIPPIN Coming Soon to the Nott Memo.rial Theatre ' ' ~-- ··'

~~- Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, April 14, 1988 . . - . .. . I : . . . . Moving? $3() per hr. for small scale regional moves. 462..;()743. Looking for 2 students - 1 lifeguarding, 1 water safety instructor. For further in- fol;lllation please call 374-9136 between 8:30 am -4:30 pm YMCA, State Street, Schenectady. NY. Looking for a couple of students to do manual labor - digging/landscaping. Niskay- una area. Please call Mr. Tatroat374U30ln the a.m .. Cleaning of dental offices & upstairs apartment on weekends. If interested call 346- 4111 - $4.50/hr. between 3 & 5 hrs. Part-:time summer job. Men's locker house Bartenders - Mohawk Golf Club, Corner .of Balltown & Union. Call 374-91Z1 between 9 s9 3, ask for Wayne Cable, Locker House Manager. Need student to do yard work, mowing, tree trimming,. etc. - Location Rexford - Please contact 39!!..()-147. Students interested in telemarketing for Spencer's Business Institute, 200 State Street - 1 bl(Jck from bus station - Hrs. M.-Thars. 5:30- 8:3~p.m. or 6 - 9 p.m. Full time or part time during those hours·. Please contact Cathy at 734-7619 .from 3:30 - 8:30 p.m. Mon. - Thurs. $5.00/hr. & bonus. Spring clean-up work - near campus. Yar-d & garden detail - $5.50/hr. Please contact Sam Ullmann at :170-3322 (h) or 37o- 6209 (w). Student who lives locally to do restaurant daties. For further info call 393-0707 and ask for Antoinette Calucci at the Carlton Restaurant, Becker Street, Schenectady. Summer college prvgram announced by the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, Westchester Division. Applications are now being accepted. A Man's Gotta Do WbatAMan's GottaDo All young men have one responsibil~ty in common. They have to register with. Selective Service within 30 days of · their 18th birthday. It :S quick. Its easy. And its the law. A puhlic scr ... ·ice.rnessage of.thjs pub- licati~>n and .Selective Service System 1092 Brierwood · Blvd'. 4 , bedroom 1Y2 bath. Many amenities. $130,090. Please call . 377-0006. Ushers needed for graduation June 12, 1988. Please see Mrs. Marra 408CC. Earn $50 - $100 per day marketing credit cards to students on your campus. Work FIT or PIT. Calll-300-932..()528. Volunteers ill Christian · ' • Service-Monday, April1!&, at 7 p .. m. in COHO Sr. M~rgaret Althisar, O.P., an Amityville Dominican, will speak to the Newman Club on \Being a Volunteer.\ Deaconate Ordination Saturday, April 23, at 11 a.m. Friar Phil . Daley- will be or- dained a deacon at St. Anthony- on-Hudson, Rennselaer. Any student who wishes to attend and needs transportation please contact Sr. Joan. Tutoring Program - Union College students <C!an be used in the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten, Computer Math & Library Aides as well as tutoring Math & Reading on a one to one. Please contact Lisa Mercugliano, 386-6968. Folk Group - Meets Sunday evenings with Friar Phil at 6:30 · p.m. in St. John the Evangelist Church to prepare. for 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members are always welcome. Orientation Advisor Application wHI be due on Friday, Aprll 22, 1988 The Orientation Comm:ittee acknowledges an error in the due date on some of the Orientation Advisor Applications. We apolo- gize for any problems or mis- understandings this may have caused. 11©@ .©r:iYffJ@ff.i[! ~f.fffil@fJWiJJ~l};®1J'@l!J \\(1'\\\.eo. lee Cream Sundaes \ox e.u\i\e with 3 topping bar! Build Your Own like Nobody Else Can! Wed., Thurs., Fri. Nights 8•10 p,m. at your friendly Dutch Hollow R*lstaurl;lnt. What fs TheM . . . What Is A Moral Code? · eaning Of Life? I . '1 Can M What Is Rea 1ty · · · · achines Think? IF QUESTIONS LIKE THESE INTEREST YOU; JOIN US AT THE PH J~o£'0phJ7 tABLE Wednesdays, 12:30- 1:30 at the College Center Community Table For further info contact Lesley at 346-8434, TOP 10 THlNGS SECU'RITY DO·ES by OJK and TMW 1 O.Piay \rock-scissors\paper'' to see who shuts off fire alarms 9.Make passes at secretaries in Physical Plant 8. Play the lotto at A+ 7. Listen to WAUC and think i'what a bunch of geeks ... \ . 6. Go undercover as cleaning ladies 5. Confiscate contraband water balloons 4.Deliver drunken toasts to \those cute babes up in DG\ 3. Issue parkiing tickets to every third car and all BMW's I . 2. Ponder the implications of Lenin's IMPERIALISM 1 . Read dirty books in the Richmond parking lot · You ARe Now A BonN AGAIN · BA RBe0L£R··· A.s <])ON AS '(ov AN/Sf( Trt:fe FOJR Cf:1[e)l'l)JJAL +-PT [)06S/ Ok J;W. No WAY FOflse-r 1r THArn ToD MuQ-1. BVf SHe WAS GoiNG 1D 21{ow us ;; New S#/8-lrt?RiB . !?e:tpe./

Jill, Squirt thrusts and JoDking hideous (all your fault) I'll always remember ... Revenge! Lin a Lorie, Jess, & Maria You guys are so incredible! To Lori, the letters page has looked s~J gt>od since winter term. What happened? Keep up , tbe good work. . · · P,S. TellJasonhe'sawesome. Burlap, . \I always grind- it's a habit of • mine'' Lo.ve fellow pledglings · To the illustrious pledges, Here's to a week of hell. Remember: Trust your sisters and Ricer is your friend. Steph, Tara, Court, Marni, Beth, Jqlie .. I decide that\l miss yon! See · you soon (I hope). Shoe maker-::I'm missing you . and everyone else already. Tbis is the best thing for my · situation! Shoesizer rT'S A CIIMPAf6N CONTT<IIJI./TlON ff(OM '' TlfU UNIT6/J CfJCIJfN~ 5M()&r-JL£R5, l'f/5H!R5 1111/J flffttJflmP 5CVM.:: (/H OH. I I CONCORDIENSIS, April 14, 1988 .. To tny suite and fourth roommate, I miss you guys .and I'll see youso'on. · Love, Laurie Lori L, JP, AJDS, & Betb..- Thanks for the cheap vodka Mon. PM. I had a .great time! J MeA Happy 22nd birthday Lori Leon! ! ! -from a fellow CVW Jane, You are looking mighty ugly ... Wait, so am n HWil! Rum! . Willy and Wally - I love you. Lisa-i decided that since you can't talk to me I would leave you a personal! Good • luck - have fun. I hope AT and T cuts yousome slack. LoveMarni To the Tti Delta Pledge Class - Congratulations! We made it! Love., Marni & Courtney Lizbabes . Imissyou ..... Leslie No.1 Davidson, Ellenand Ray, No more-. games in the study room ... then again.,.if it's going to come out anyway. : Brtan, although I'm not around · now I'll always be ,there .for you. Taj · To the infamous eight, though two of the family . members are gone stay crazy and wild. Love and . Jamanda Aaron- FINALLY!!! Love, your little sisters ofT. P.r. Mike Mig., ' It sure is nice to have a man in the House! Love, 301 Deer-o, D! Pa, Did little Laura get out of the . cellar o~k.? Do ycu often put people in water wheels? Inquiring minds want to know. L.&C.L. . Congratulations,. Delta . Delta Delta. New initiates, you weren't sure you'd make it through the week bnt. .. you did! Yea! Love, TheQneen :Marnilla, Congratulations li1' sister- the week wasn't aU that bad- and now you're sporting a sister pin! You're great! Love, D. . BLOOM COUNTY .. IUA~lJCCBPr ntl5 5MIIU. 6/f'T 70 fill? 'f()(Jf? .£FffJR1511JNfltrP 'lft11Jf<Y JN N0Veif18€R / .. I ,;.. . 5/GII. MY Cfl(r1ff//&t/ 15 IN 1lJ111L. Jll5fl!?KI1Y. I \ ... _ Leslie, all this time arui' I never knew you were a poet! Co()ngrats and I miss you t~o. lAJV'e, Lina Sara, I miss you lots - keep _the •. presents aQd letters coming l Be good_and no stories-Lima To the bell tower man: f don't know about Washingi:()n or Texas, butt knowi'U mi:ss tb()se blue eyes. Love· the libr:arian Mr. Butterlly- Sorry if I was harsh. I tlo still care. Ms. Clipper To 114 (whoops, I fori!ot you . guys moved - I mean R ): Park: • · Thanx for tbe salad dresSing & Club Gnat - we'll be over to vacumtbi.s week (mayb-e). Love, L, B, ~. J, & L . Start getting your team · together. The DG OlYJ)).pics are May-20th. Matthew and Dave Haven't been doing tile nasty- . -possibly because I'm ]O.()king so · gross! Love, Me .-. Page 2l Body language and manual conununication? Hmm? Sorry I was such a -ch the other night. Truce? Son, You have got a beer-gut . Love, Leon Say something! J.P. I'm glad we talked. To the pledges of Phi Sigma Kappa - Hang in there guys, you;re doing great. Just think, you'll soon-hopefully-be full- fledged brothers!! Love, the little sisters Courtney - Congratulations on your initiation! I love you! Your big sister Little Sis, Hope you had as good a time Saturday as I did and your legs, shoulder, and thumb are all right. Big Bro. BW - for a first date, it was okay but next day, you buy the popcorn! -LM L- I don't like havuig a single- Imissyou! L Little Sister Maggie: Keep up the good work. You're almost done. Congratulations!! Love, your BigSister Brand - Can I borrow your green sarong with the paint on it? I want to blend in with my date.. Should I get it now or later? -Dirtball · Dot- Where did all the messages on my desk, notes, et cetera come from?? -Myron Pooh Bear - Spring term is it! Speak now or forever hold your peace! s. Carolyn - Get psyched for this weekend. You're the best and I loveya! -Jackie Dingy I c(,mldn't find a squeegee but I did find a Quickie Wet Mop you could borrow. \Be My Lady\ ... C.S.N. Love that blue eyed girl U.M. It's your life H ... Love ya, Big Little Hey Buffalo Chip & Ethiopian God Payback's a·BH! Bionic Woman Many thanks to .the two unidentified people who ''rescued'' me Friday night and to Security. Fred, Your experiences with Mr. Cunningham and Fonzy sounded intriguing. You frightened us all. Is that what you do for fun in the Stone Age? D&B.R. Wisconsin is well known for its dairy industry. How lucky you are to be going to a place with so many cows I Jaclti Anguangrui Here's your firstptrsonal. LeiDaDe Andy-I hope you make it thru the week because you owe me a tennis date. Cheer up, I miss you even if F. has her mind on L! . I

Page .22 CONCORDIENSIS, .April 14, l!i8B Dutch Hollow Restaurant Presents- Saturday~ Ylpri£ 16tli 5-9pm · · Vinner ·'Dance · . witli tlie souncfs of '~pture\ ('R .. /B, Sou{ & Jazz) Featuring: Darrell Shephard -. vocal Carmella Creech- vocal Tony Halston -. keyboard Michael Stewart ......... Bass Don Dukes - Drums Wiljon Beltre -· Guitar Come join us for our buffet dinner and enjoy the sounds of Rapture . ' . ICE.CREAM· SMiJRGASJJOlUJ! For A A Limited Time lee Cream SuntfCJes With FREE TOPPINGS BAR! BUILD YOUR OWN· LIKE NOBODY ELSE CAN.! WED., THURS. FRI. NIGHTS 8-10 PM AT YOUR FRIENDLY DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT SPEND $5 AND ENJOY A SUNDAE .. FREE! Buffet featuring: Standing Rib Roast, Seafood Newburg, Stuffed· Shrimp · Announcing .The Merger Of 2 Great Institutions! Rock-n-Roll Pizza will now be making pizza pies at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant Friday, Saturday, Sunday evenings. SAME PHONE NU:M·BERS, SAME DELIVERlES! Sandwiches and subs also available for free delivery these evenings ''No matter how bad they are, Grandrila loves to hear the latest jokes.'' You miss her sparkling sense ofhlimor. She misses you and your jokes. E\ 7 en the bad ones. That's one good reason to can long distance. AT & T Long Distance Service is another good reaS(n Be- cause it costs less than ymi think to hear your grand· mother start to giggle be- fore you even get to tile punchJine. · So wheneyer you miss. her laughter, bring a smile ' toherfacewithAT&t Reach o,utaadtouchsorneon~~ Ifyou'd like to know more about AT&T products. and · services, like the AT&T Card, call us at 1800 222\0300. AT&T The ri9ht choice.

CONCORDIENSlS, 1988 Page 23 ______ .:...,__ . -· -- ~ -- - -- - .l(ftnntiltltltniis ·-·~SPORTS Charlie Morrison Reme·mbered By JIM MacLAUGHLIN _Longtime Union hockey .coach Charles N. Morrison 'passed away suddenly Fri<h\y of a . massive heart attack. Morrisol), who had just recently retired from his post as head coach, was in Ottawa, Ontaril> on a recruiting trip with assistant coach Dan Fridgen at the time• Coach Morrison was 51 years old. .Morrison was recently diagnosed as having MUltipl~ Sclerosis, a debilitating (ijsease . that led .him to decide to step down from head coach of the Union hockey program. He.was, . howevet\ to ·remain in his position as director of Achilles Rink. . BQrn in Summerside, PEI, Canada, Morrison began his coaching career at Albany Academy in 1968. He then held positi<Jns as hockey coach at Mount Allison Unversity in New. BrWtSwick, and Lake Forest· College in lllinois before coming to Union. At Union he was given the formidable task of rebuilding the hockey ,program after the infamous Ned aarkness scandals. His achievements as Union's coacn are. remark~ble, with 122 victories in ten years as .head coach. He led tile Skating Dutchmen to their first ECAC ·Western Division title in 1985, m,aking four appearances in the ECAC's in five years. Also, Morrison took his teams to t)lree NCM. 'tournament berths, finiShing in the .finarfo11r twice: 1984 and. 1~85. ChJtrlie was,.. well, Charlie, and. any attempts to .fonn a definition out of platitudes would do his memory a tremendous disservi<le. Fond of telling his players, ''my wal(. or the high :way,\ Charlie pulled no punches when it came to members of histeams. If he was going to give all of himself to win, then they were too, or else. Coach Morrison's teams were well versed i.r;l fundamentals, conditioning, and, more im• portantly, commitment. Pla~ers that gave less than a 100 percent effort, (\It's all that's possible,\ Charlie would say) or expected breaks, were quickly dealt with by MoDrison. Those who tried to make ex- cuses would quickly heoilr one o.f. the coach's favorite quotes, Former Head Hockey Coach Charlie Morrison ''reasons ate eXCIISeS and eX· cuses are for losers,'' for Charlie Morrison was not one to accept anything less than a full effort. Mo~ of an, Charlie Morri$0n recognized thatho~key was just a game, and that as coach he had to bear the greater responsibility 9f preparing his team members 'for their lives after Union College. Freshman players on their first day of school quickly ·had. their priorities set by Charlie? \your family, then your . schoolwork, and hockey is dead last,\ although few would believe that during the height ()f the season. Hockey is a stra11ge fraternity in itself; coaches. and players alike through their . years of dedication to tbe ,game speak a ~ different language and lead a ~ different life, ear.rying the a. affections for the sport in their !:1 blood. Charlie Morrison was an u:: eminent member of that fraternity, and yesterday at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church in Schenectady, numerous members of that group, as well :as family and friends, paid respects to one of their own. Many former Union greats such as Gil Egan, John Macl{enzie, Tom Hodgins, Wayne Mc- Dougall and Jaime Knight returned to remember their old coach, trading the stories and quotes that will come to define the legend of Charlie Morrison. ''lf you had to write a script,\ said Dan Fridgen, \this would be how you would end it.\ Charlie passed on in a way that few of us will be fortunate ' enough to do, doing the job he loved most. Hockey, quite simply, was Charlie Mattison's passion; it fed him, and yet at the same time, it consumed him. A Charlie Morrison Scholarship fund has been established in his honor, and will not be related to hockey. Donations can be sent to the fund at Union College, Achilles Rink, Schenectady, 12308. Uriion Ultimate: A fo·rce to Be Re,ckoned With Union Lax Shut Down by Albany Danes By GREG GOETZ • :By JOSEPH CORRIGAN Union College's ultimate . frisbee team, alais 'The Crispy Critters,' were sUpposed to participate in ~ tournament at .SUNY Albany . this past weekend. However, due to lack of available field space, the tournament was not held as planned. Instead, Union travell~d to Albany for psuedo- tournament play on Sunday. Four teams were present, in- cluding two Albany teams (Loc<Jrnotion and Scam), one Syracus.e team and ourselves. Although some team mem- bers were not there, the cere of Uni()n's entourage was present and was prepared to play some disc. It was a blustery day on the SUNY campus and theref<Jre not the ·best conditions for ultimate. Upon scrim· maging against a combination of L<J.comotion and Scam players, Union realized that thiS was going to be a difficult day . The best strategy was short quick passes. Union's first match was against the physi~l Syracuse team. Ultimate is considered a gentleman's·sport with all .fouls, ete.·betng ca11edl>Y the ·players: However, Syracuse repeatedly demonstrated .un.gentleman • like conduct tlu'oughout the match. Cool heads and calm hands prevailed however, as Union came away victorious with a score of 15-12. Union then proceeded to wait for its nett opponent who was still in the process of its match. A half-later later Union was pitted against Scam of Albany. Scam's reputation led us to believe we would probably be beaten, but we were psyched to give them a good gane. lt soon became apparent, however, that Scam was quite exhausted from its previous match, and Union was up 8-3 atthe half. We . ~.· Rock-n-Roll f ~-~ ~ . :f:l-, ' ~ ~ '1.1:2.. ' Now being served at th~ Dutch Hollow Restaurant on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday from s.-12 p.m. vowed to continue our tenacious defense wbilst exhausting them on offense with speed and quick cuts. Scam proved to be much tougher in the second half, and as the score reached 13-13, we knew we · were tired. as· well. Then, with the windto our bacKs we moved quickly downfield with a series of short passes and scored. It was 14-13, game point for·Union, but we were throwing off to them and we had the wind in our face!il. Scam made a quick mistake at their end and it was Union's disc. While everyone was lilhouting, \Take your time!\ the disc went up and Union came down with the disc in the end zone. Union was victorious, 15-13! H some of the terms used hete confuse you and you. want to know more about Union ultimate and the game in general, please feel free to join us any_ afternoon at 3:30 on Richmond beach for .practice. Newcomers are always welcome. Last Saturday, the Union College men's lacrosse team travelled to Alba11y to face the then winless Great Danes. The Dutchmen's record dropped to 2-3 after the .8-4i loss. Union outshot Albany, but the Albany goalie played what must be the game of his life, turning back over 30 shots with much help from the goal posts. The scoring operred quickly as Blake Henderson took the initial face-off, charged the cage and netted the first goal in 1() seconds. But this lead did not last as the Danes knotted the score before the end of the first minute. It was downhill from there for the injury-plagued Dutclunen. While they were behind for the rest of the con- test, Union did not relent. They played a physical game only to be frustrated by theclock running out on a secopd balf comeback which saw them outscore Albany. John Keller l·edthe Dutchmen with a hat trick, and the scoring was rounded out by HenderSOQ, Dave Debardinis and Nick Baratoff with one goal each. Senior captain Len LaMonica chipped in with an assist. The defense was led by Greg Leahey and Pat Lawson. _ This· Monday· afternoon, the Dutchmen went north to Sraatoga to regain some con- fidence as they shelled Skid- more, 11-3. This brings them back to the .500 mark with a 3-3 record. John Thome was great in goal and the defense con- tributed to the offense as defensemen Leahey and Lawson each contributed an assist. Union again played a physical match, dominating groundballs and face-offs. The trio of Henderson, Baratoff, and Carl Friedrich won virtually every fac~ff. Union scoring was led by captain LaMonica (1,4), Phil Horn (4,0), Keller (2,2), DeBardinis (2,0), Jason Albert (1,2), and Friedrich (1,1) . Union Softball Demonstrates \Natural\ Winning Potential :By SUSAN KERSCH The Union softball team emerged .from the second week of their season with an un- fortunate injury, wet shoes and a couple of . wins under their belts. Union faced the newly formed Hartwick club April5 and came away with a comfortable 9-5 victory. Susan KerSch opened the game with a slow start on the mound. Chris Tierney subbed in with a change · in momentum which carried over to the Albany game two days later. wasn't until the tenth inning when the stalemate was broken lind Union came out on top 4-2. Tierney and Jean Monaco formed a dynamic pitcher catcher combination. Tierney had siJr strikeouts including the last out of the game. It was an important . win for Union. Assistant~ Coach Kim Mangino said, ''Albany State has always been an archrival for us.\ Union's total bases out- numbered its opponent's. Both Kim Keller and Jlllie Gallo hit singles. Kathy Lawless hit a hard double but unfortunately seriously injured· her ankle in a hard slide at second base. Lawless will be sorely missed both in the field and at the plate. She is hoping to be active again in two weeks. and defeated Skidmore 19-8. With Missy Hladik debuting at shortstop, the team combined strong defense With aggressive bats. Colleen Dundon had two singles and Joyce Whitted came up with key hits. Shelly Pino and Gallo each nailed a double. Theresa Sanchez drove in some runs to give Union more than a solid lead. Sanchez has settled down on defense also and is playing an aggressive third · base. Mangino says with her natural talent, .Sanchez should be one of the cornerstones of Union's team in the future. We are open Monday thru Thurs- • day at West at 1 :dO for ·soda, candy, popcorn, .and cookies -Pizza served after 5:00. Don't forget our ~ings;....$2 .• 5~/dozent Come visit us While we are stlll here to serve you. The away game against Albany started on an abrupt upbeat note with Union crossing the plate in the first inning for an early lead. Not until the ! . bottom of the seventh inning was Albany able to tie it up. It Amidst heavy downpour, Union overcame the conditions The last few games have not only demonstrated that Union can cut out many of the mental and technicai errors they have faced, but that they are capable of playing up to their natural potential. X6060 Support Union CoJlege Spring Athletie,s .. .

I .. Freshman Mike MarUnez stretches , It out in the steeplechase race. Scott Deii'Orfan.o pounds out ().ne of Union's. many hits ag.alnst Hartwick. ' April 14. 1988 Rochester R~evi·sited: Union Baseball On the· Rampage By-CARA TABACK Tbe Hartwick Warriors showed no resemblan:ce to the 601l0glala Sioux, who, under the· leadership of 'Crazy Horse,' massacred General Custer and his three thousand men at Little Big Horn in 1876. Rather, Hartwick resembled the Cleveland Indians in the 1954 World Series as they stood in disbElief and awe of \The Catch\' by Willie Mays .. With his backte> homeplate Mays sped to right center field to catch a shot by Vic Wertz that would have scCJred the two men on base to pull the Indians allead. In an()ther ball park the ball would have been over the wall. But this was the Polo Gr()unds and this was Willie Mays in center. ThE Giants went on to beat their fav()red opponents in 4 games. Ullion's fate went much the same way as the Gian.ts'. From the first inning to the last, April 7, Union artillery soundly defeated Hartwick by a score of 23-11. The chartered bus assaulted the foothills of Oneonta to reach the battlefield whicl1 was the same as it has always been these past few year13. The trains rattle by first. The green and white Reinhardt-And.rllS sign in center brings a fond smile to all who remeber good old # 1- Reinhardt Walker. This day, tho11gh, the sun permeated the sky, Ulilike the blizzard game a few years before. Some of the names are the same, .some are not. Dav.e Anderson started things off brilliantly with a sinlge to left, one of three hits on the day. He stole his first of two bases and scored on a Bill Brundige shot down the third base line. Ct~tcher Pat Seccbiaroli, who has warmed the hearts off all Union fans by bringin.g his third roommate Buddy t() b()megames, jumped on the second strike for a double and an 'RBI. Freshmen Deke Lin- coln pulled the ban to center for his first single, 7 runs (2 of which were Dave Andersons) later, found 'Tim Valachovic vrit}j a strong lead after only half an inning. His ERA dropped to 1.80 as he allowed only 4 hits tb.rough five innings. Valachovic's teammates rallied behind him, and then they rallied above and beyond. Ex:tra base hits abounded. The batting order batted around twice. Joe Mauro went 2 for 3 on the day and fellow freshmen Matt Hoover adeptly and p()werfully drove in 3 runs. &rundige, who seems to be taking his Babe Ruth # 3 Ulliforrn seriously, was 3 for 5 with a double and a triple. By this time even Glenn Kata forgot about recruiting S()meone to \talk t() food ser· vices about gettting devil dogs in the bag lunches.'' . In the top of the ninth, Mark Callhan showed how much of an an.:.around player he really is; on his first pitch . as a Union batter, he smashed the ball over the fence in left field for added insurance runs 22 and 23. Mark Trudeau and Mike Switzer split four fine innings of relief. A word of praise also goes out to starting catcher Scott Dell'Orfano who has played attentively at the plate as well as behind it. He went 2 for 3 against Albany, with 2 RBis. In a 7-3 Union loss to Oneonta on Saturday he powered a drive to leftfor 3 bases. In the second game against Oneonta, Mark Callahan gave up only 4 hits to right handedly deliver their first ·loss of the year. He struck out 8 batters as his ERA stayed sub 2.00. Joe Pepitone of the New York Yankees once said, \In center field, you've got too much time to think about everything but baseball.'' Willie Mays gloriously defied Pepitone. Mays won 11 Gold Gloves awards, and set major league records for career putouts and total chances in the outfield, aside from being the first man to hit 300 homeruns and steal 300 bases. Union at 3-3, will try to follow in the direction that Mays led his Giants as they host RPI on Thursday and Norwich for a .double header on Satur- day. Rugby Tripped Up at Albany lnvy Tournament By ROB DODGE The Union ruggers travelled to Albany this weekend with ho()Cs of capturing the cham· pionship in the Albany In- vitational tournament. HClwever, all hopes were destrCJyed by a crushing loss in the first game - Southern Connecticut 22 Uni()n 6. The first half of the game looked very hopeful when sophomore S~ve Bordonaro saved a try by pl()wing an enemy rugger out of the Union try zone before set· ting the ball down. However, So11thern Conn regained U10se lost points on a questionable obs.tmction penalty call The G()nversion was missed, leaving the score 4-0. Urrion finally soeored late in the half on a diving pass . from Tom Muz· zinegro to Dave Austin who streamrolled over two defen- ders and ran in for the try. Chris Sheridan converted and Union was up 6-4 at the halftime. The second half started off poorly with a try by S()utllern Conn. Worsened from there as they ~ored try after try on a mentally crushed team. The · final score was 22-tJ. The rugger's second game was against Rutgers who was a stiff competitor but not intense enough for the vengefw Union Huns. Tile first .and only try was· scored by Muzzinegro who danced around Rutgers for 4 points. Chris Sheridan kicked a powerful two point conversion making the score 6-0. The .score remained the same for the rest of the game. An outstanding effort award goes to freshmen prop Big Vinny Ditoli for playing most of the game without a right. knee and to Matt \The Terminator\ Taylor who nearly killed several Rutgers ruggers with Cl'\l.Shing bone breakillg tacklE!s. Union looks forward to playing Vassar next weekend at home with one of Vassar's own; Marcus \th~ Vasshole\ Drew, playing for VI)ion. Tracksters Edged Out By Strong RPI Finish By MEN TRACKTEAM The Union .:men 1 s track team took on cr()sstown rival RPI last Saturday in hopes of avenging a two point loss to the Elngineers during the indoor season. However, dispite holding a42-30 edge in the field events, the Dutchmen dropped an 84-77 decision. Union's weakness was clearly in the running events as the team had winers in only three of the eleven events. With the disappointing defeat, Union fell to 1-2 on the season, as they had split a meet with Hamilton and Middlebury earlier in. the week. Rookie Art Broga led the way for Union, as he was a d()uble winner for the second time this season. Broga leaped to vietory in the triple jump, where he covered 42 feet 6 inches, and in the long jump, where he leaped an impressive 21 feet 4 inches winning by oyer two feet. Senior Andy McMahon threw sir()ngly in the weight ev.ents, winning the hammer throw with a t()SS of 32.92 meters and. picking up second in. the discus. Union actually swept the discus throw, as freshmen Dan Randolph got his first win with a 38.7 meter heave while Mike Siro:wich picked up third in the event. Sophomore Terry Rathwell remained undefeated in his specialty, the javelin throw, as his 50.98 meter toss won that event /by almost three meters. Captain Chip Silver also picked up first place for the Dutcllmen, as he won the high jump at six feet. Jeff Simkins was impressive in the hurdle races on Saturaay. In the 110 meter hurdle event, Simkins won a close race in 15.9 seconds. In the l<mger race, the 400 intermediate hurdles, Simkins came back to run a 60 .. 7 time, good enough for a second place. Simkins also chipped in a thi'rd place in the high jump; where he leaped stx feet. Union's other two wins in the running events came from the distance corps. Senior Jim LeBron took the 3000. meter steeplechase with a time of 9;54.3. Le Brou pulled away from RPI ace Jim Hackett early in the race, then held for the victory as he qualified for the state meet in the grueling event. Senior Steve Szydlik added first in the meter run (16.;25.3) to his earlier second. place in the 1500 meters. Several other athletes bad impressive non-winning per- formances in the tough loss. Steve Hayes captured two second place finishes, running 22.9 seconds for the 200 dash and 51.7 seconds for the 400. Freshmen Mike Martinez knocked 20 seconds off his previous best in the steeplechase as his 10:38 tilne got him third in that event behind LeBron. Zack Gobel and Bob Lindyberg, finished second and third, respectively, in the 800 meters, while Doug Mar- tocci took a strong third in the 400 intermediate hurdles in his first try at the event.

r· ;-~~'IT·h~~t~~ t Freshman Mike Martinez steeplechase race. stretches It out In the Scott DeH'Orfano pounds out one of Union's many hits ag.alnst Hartwick. Aprii1A,, '1988 Rochester Revisited: Union Baseball On the Rampage By CARA TABACK The Hartwick Warriors showed no resemblance to the 600 Oglala Sioux, who, under the leadership of 'Crazy Horse,' massacred General Custer and his three thousand men at Little Big Horn in 1876. Rather, Hartwick resembled the Cleveland Indians in the 1954 World Series as they stood in disbelief and awe of \The Catch\ by Willie Mays. With his back to homeplate Mays sped to right center field to catch a shot by Vic Wertz that would have scored the two men on base to pull the Indians ahead. In another ball park the ball would have been over the wall. But this was the Polo Grounds and this was Willie Mays in center. The Giants went on to beat their favored opponents in 4 games. Union's fate went much the same way as the Giants'. From the first inning to the last, April 7, Union artillery soundly defeated Hartwick by a score of 23-11. The chartered bus assaulted the foothills of Oneonta to reach the battlefield which was the same as it has always been these past few years. The trains rattle by first. The green and white Reinhardt-Andrus sign in center brings a fond smile to all who remeber good old # 1- Reinhardt Walker. This day, though, the sun permeated the sky, unlike the blizzard game a few years before. Some of the names are the same, some are not. Dave Anderson started things off brilliantly with a sinlge to left, one of three hits on the day. He stole his first of two bases and scored on a Bill Bt\undige shot down the third base line. Catcher Pat Secchiaroli, who has warmed the hearts off all Union fans by bringing his third roommate Buddy to homegames, jumped on the second strike for a double and an RBI. Freshmen Deke Lin- coln pulled the ball to center for his first single, 7 runs (2 of which were Dave Andersons) later, found Tim Valachovic witH a strong lead after only half an inning. His ERA dropped to 1.80 as he allowed only 4 hits through five innings. Valachovic's teammates rallied behind him, and then they rallied above and beyond. Extra base hits abounded. The batting order batted around twice. Joe Mauro went 2 for 3 on the day and fellow freshmen Matt Hoover adeptly and powerfully drove in 3 runs. Brundige, who seems to be taking his Babe Ruth # 3 uniform seriously, was 3 for 5 with a double and a triple. By this time even Glenn Kata forgot about recruiting someone to \talk to food ser- vices about gettting devil dogs in the bag lunches.\ In the top of the ninth, Mark Callhan showed how much of an all-around player he really is; on his first pitch as a Union batter, he smashed the ball over the fence in left field for added insurance runs 22 and 23. Mark Trudeau and Mike Switzer split four fine innings of relief. A word of praise also goes out to starting catchet\ Scott Dell'Orfano who has played attentively at the plate as well as behind it. He went 2 for 3 against Albany, with 2 RBis. In a 7-3 Union loss to Oneonta on Saturday he powered a drive to left for 3 bases. In the second game against Oneonta, Mark Callahan gave up only 4 hits to right handedly deliver their first loss of the year. He struck out 8 batters as his ERA stayed sub 2.00. Joe Pepitone of the New York Yankees once said, \In center field, you've got too much time to think about everything but baseball.\ Willie Mays gloriously defied Pepitone. Mays won 11 Gold Gloves awards, and set major league records for career putouts and total chances in the outfield, aside from being the first man to hit 300 homeruns and steal 300 bases. Union at 3-3, will try to follow in the direction that Mays led his Giants as they host RPI on Thursday and Norwich for a double header on Satur- day. Rugby Tripped Up at Albany lnvy Tournament By ROB DODGE The Union ruggers travelled to Albany this weekend with hopes of capturing the cham- pionship in the Albany In- vitational tournament. However, all hopes were destroyed by a crushing loss in the first game - Southern Connecticut 22 Union 6. The first half of the game looked very hopeful when sophomore Steve Bordonaro saved a try by plowing an enemy rugger out of the Union try zone before set- ting the ball down. However, Southern Conn regained those lost points on a questionable obstruction penalty call. The conversion was missed, leaving the score 4-0. Union finally scored late in the half on a diving pass from Tom Muz- zinegro to Dave Austin who streamrolled over two defen- ders and ran in for the try. Chris Sheridan converted and Union was up 6-4 at the halftime. The second half started off poorly with a try by Southern Conn. VVorsened frona tllere as they scored try after try on a mentally crushed team. The final score was 22-6. The rugger's second game was against Rutgers wilo was a stiff competitor but not intense enough for the vengeful Union Huns. The first and only try was· scored by Muzzinegro who danced around Rutgers for 4 points. Chris Sheridan kicked a powerful two point conversion making the score 6-0. The score remained the same for the rest of the game. An outstanding effort award goes to freshmen prop Big Vinny Ditoli for playing most of the game without a right knee and to Matt \The Terminator\ Taylor who nearly killed several Rutgers ruggers with crushing bone breaking tackles. Union looks forward to playing Vassar next weekend at home with one of Vassar's own, Marcus \the Vasshole\ Drew, playing for Union. Tracksters Edged Out By Strong RPI Finish By MEN TRACK TEAM The Union men's track team took on crosstown rival RPI last Saturday in hopes of avenging a two point loss to the Engineers during the indoor season. However, dispite holding a 42·30 edge in the field events, the Dutchmen dropped an 84·77 decision. Union's weakness was clearly in the running events as the team had winers in o11ly three of the eleven events. With the disappointing defeat, Union fell to 1-2 on the season, as they had split a meet with Hamilton and Middlebury earlier in the week. Rookie Art Broga led the way for Union, as he was a double winner for the second time this season. Broga leaped to victory in the triple jump, where he covered 42 feet 6 inches, and in the long jump, where he leaped an impressive 21 feet 4 inches winning by over two feet. Senior Andy McMahon threw strongly in the weight events, winning the hammer throw with a toss of 32.92 meters and picking up second in the discus. Union actually swept the discus throw, as freshmen Dan Randolph got his first win with a 38.7 meter heave while Mike Sirowich picked up third in the event. Sophomore Terry Rathwell remained undefeated in his specialty, the javelin throw, as his 50.98 meter toss won that event by ahnost three meters. Captain Chip Silver also picked up first place for the Dutchmen, as he wan the high jump at six feet. Jeff Simkins was impressive in the hurdle races on Saturday. In the 110 meter hurdle event, Simkins won a close race in 15.9 seconds. In the longer race, the 400 intermediate hurdles, Simkins came hack to run a 60.7 time, good enough for a second place. Simkins also chipped in a third place in the high jump, where he leaped six teet. Union's other two wins in the running events came from the distance corps. Senior Jim LeBrou took the 3000 meter steeplechase with a time of 9:54.3. Le Brou pulled away from RPI ace Jim Hackett early in the race, then held for the victory as he qualified for the state meet in the grueling event. Senior Steve Szydlik added first in the meter run (16:25.3) to his earlier second place in the 1500 meters. Several other athletes had impressive non-winning per- formances in the tough loss. Steve Hayes captured two second place finishes, running 22.9 seconds for the 200 dash and 51.7 seconds for the 400. Freshmen Mike Martinez knocked 20 seconds off his previous best in the steeplechase as ills 10:38 time got him third in that event behind LeBrou. Zack Gobel and Bob Lindyberg, finished second and third, respectively, in the BOO meters, while Doug Mar- tocci took a strong third in the 400 intermediate hurdles in his first try at the event. .I lJ' '· !

. ~-- _,.. . - . ·-· \' . .,._ ~ \. 1877 CXVII, No. 21. York J a·ckson and Dukakis Hit _Aiba_ny In_ Preparation of Super Tuesday General Education, Schaffer Library Extension, . ' ' . Dukakis Camp·aigns In Albany By DAVIDGULLIVER They acted more like college pals than state governors at the podium last F'riday, as New. York's Mario Cuomo predicted the outcome of Tuesday's primary-whi<!h he may have influenced. Dukakis W()i1 the New York State primary 'l'uesday with 51 percent of, the vote, with Jackson receiving 37 percent aml Gore with 12 percent. Dukakis added \164 deleg;:ttes to his 'otal toward the nqm!p~tion. -~·.·:--·,r-~· ~·-·;- >P>:·· -.-·:·t \If be (Dp.k..akis) becomes· tlte candidate, be will be mperb . • • a.nd a- winner in November and· a great president.\ -Iv-1at lo Cuomo Cuomo had. nothing but praise, smiles and back-slaps for fellow governor and Democratic presidential hopeful Mike Dukakis, as Cu<lmo came doser than ever to endorsing a ca11didate. Introducing Dukakist Cuomo said, \He will very likely be the winner (of TtJe5day's primary) and therefore the frontrunner for tl1e nomination.\ Cuomo has refused to end10rse any of the candidates, saying that it is in the best interests of the Democratic party to be im,. partial. . Cuomo said, '\If he (Dukakis) becomes the candidate, he will Democratic presidential candidates Dukakis and Jackson be superb ... and a winner in J k November, and a great . · ac ·· S 0 n President.\ Dukakis was in Albany last. Ra· llie.s Friday on a campaign stop, where he staged a campaign S { j rally in the Empire State Pla~a UP' n,o r a and met tile press in the Capitol 1:' building. Empz·re Duka~s's rally was an ob- · . . · ·.· · vious attempt to appeal to the parents and . <Us~el his s· tate p· · ·la· -za· t~chnQcrat, ''wo:rd priJc:e~sor\ . • · · · · · . ' · · . · · image. He tackled- -<the · emotibfial;. ' family-ori~hted issue of drugs and· youth in America. Dukakis cited experiences he learned of while in New York Cicy: a gjt-tshot on the street by dtug dealers, a policeman slain. dUring a·. drug bust---\Aild Reagan says we're mnning the w:at agailist ·drugs ... we- all wish that were ttuEi. We'-ve bately begun to fight. 1 ' . ''The greatest threat (to Arne rica) is' not San- dinistas-it's the avalanche of See CANDIDA'rES, p. 3 BY -OM4~:Et.J.KENlRY Assoell\teN.ews Editor Jackson entered the break- fast room to a wildly en- th~iastic crowd of supporters, who had paid $100 for the ticket (the same as the Vice- President's breakfast the day before). Mayor Thomas Whalen of Albany intr4Jduced Jackson, noting that five Presidents in history were from Albany-, so \the quick route to the White House is to establish residency See- JACKSON, p. .3 Student Minority Ratio Addressed at Trustee Meeting By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-In-Chief \E:x;pand and explore,, Dean of Faculty James Underwood reiterated to the Board of · Trustees during tbe first day of · their annual spring meetings April14. The on-campus meetings which took place April14 and 15 saw a full agenda for the The Trustees' meeting convened April 14 and lS . to discuss plaJis for the expansi(:)n of the Library, graduation speaker, and · tbe- endowment. Trustees who beard reports from approximately seven committees, one of which was a report from the A.A. C. (Academic Affairs Committee) which included a presentati()n from Underwood on the General Education program. He pressed the issue that the Union ex- perience for incoming freslunen should provide a mntiuwn from high school to college preparing them for the 'breadth and See TRUSTEES5 p. 5 Dukakis Wins New York State Prin1ary; 011e. Step Closer To Democratic Non1inatio11 By ALEX GARDNER The New York primary, which has often come too late to make much difference in Presidential races, has made Governor Michael Dukakis the irtarguable frontrUnner with a . convincing victory on Tuesday. Dukakis won by a 2-1 margin over Jesse Jackson as he captured 51 percent of the vote. Jackson received 37 percent and Senator Al Gore 12 percent. Dukakis captured 164: delegates, assuring party leaders and the electorate that he is the strongest of the Democratic candidates and setting him on a march to the nomination at the Democratic National Con- vention in Atlanta tllis July. Many D~akis supporters worried that the white vote would be split by their can- didate and Senator Al Gore, while Jackson would take all of . the blacks who make up an estjmated 25 percent of the electorate. However, Dukakis managed to offset the black vote with a Clear win with Catholics and Jews. Jackson easily won New York City · _ where many of the blacks' reside but l~st badly in tl_le suburbs and upstate. Gore, who bas not won a primary since Super Tuesday six weeks ago, appears til be dropping out, but because of his southern ·. roats remains a logical choice as a running mate for Duka:kis. In the next few weeks, Dukakis' pri.Inary prospects appear bright. New York ()ffers Jackson an unusually high percentage of black voters tbat won't be available to him in upcoming states. And without Gore to fight with for the white vote_, the upcoming primaries should allow Dukakis to· pull away from Jackson in the delegate count. Ori tbe Republican Side. Vice President George Bush,. who ran Wiopposed, is steadily closing in on the 1,139 delegates neededto secure his nomiilatiori at the Republican convention in August. Fortunately for the GOP, they could Ullite while their rivals fought it out in a politically divisive campaign where even Democratic _Mayor Ed Koch kept attacking Jackson to the last moment, adding he would work against Jackson at the national convention if the nomination were still up for grabs then. But now, as it seems Jacks()n on the top of the ticket ls unlikely, the question is what will be his role at the conventi()n in JUly? Will he wait until then to concede and unite with a party that has been greatly divided by the long primary season? April 21, 1988 Nuclear Test Ban Petition Receives Campus Support By MELISSA STEWART A petition advocating a ban on nuclear testing received approximately 500 signatures over a three day period. Signees included students, faculty, administrators and other college employees. The effort was initiated by tbe Religious Programs Office and im- mediately gained the support of students, especially members of SPAA (Students for Political Awareness and Activity). It is a newly formed group which is drawing the attention of many students who have been in search of an outlet for their political ideas, Many students consider their fellow students to be politically apathetic; however, this view is beginning to change as a result of several movements . this year con- cerning · such issues. as por- nography, restoration of the Nott Memorial, .and, now, nuclear testing. The petition is being cir- culated throughout the Capital District by the Commission for Justice and Peace and the Justice. of Albany in Association with the Catholic Church. Eventually, completed petitions will be presented to Representative Sam Stratton by Bishop Howard J. Hubbard of Albany. The petition was first distributed to area churches during the lenten season. The pet!tion states, \I call upon the President to immediately halt all nuclear testing and resume negotiations for a Com- prehensive Test Ban Treaty as a next step toward reversing . the arms race. I also call upon · the Senators and Represen- tatives of New York to support legislation that would enact a moratorium on nuclear testing as long as the Soviets do not , test.'' The Summit meeting between President Reagan and General Secretary Gorbachev and the See Tt;ST BAN, p. 4 . ' '' ) : .I ' j f, L ' .

I il' '· ! lege 1877 CXVII, No. 21 Scheneda(ij~'\ New York April 21, 1988 Jackson and Dukakis Hit Albany In Preparation of Super Tuesday General Education, Schaffer Library E.rtension, Stude1zt Minority Ratio Addressed at Trustee Meeting Nuclear Test Ban Petition Receives Campus Support Dukakis Campaigns In Albany By DAVID GULLIVER They acted more like college pals than state governors at the podium last Friday, as New York's Mario Cuomo predicted the outcome of Tuesday's primary-which he may have influenced. Dukakis won the New York State primary Tuesday with 51 percent of the vote, with Jackson receiving 37 percent and Go•·e with 12 percent. Dukakis added 164 delegates to his total toward the nomination. \If he (Dukakis) becomes the candidate, be will be superb •.• and a winner in November and a great president.\ -Mario Cuomo Cuomo had nothing but praise, smiles and back-slaps for fellow governor and Democratic presidential hopeful Mike Dukakis, as Cuomo came closer than ever to endorsing a candidate. Introducing Dukakis, Cuomo said, \He will very likely be the winner (of Tuesday's primary) and therefore the frontrunner for the nomination.\ C11ornohas refused to endorse any of the candidates, saying that it is in the best interests of the Democratic party to be im- partial. C11omo said, \If he (Dukakis) becomes the candidate, he will I (.) (f) a: \i z h- ·/'<; ,, / ¢ .,....~ .. t-'3. ~'1. -~· ( t~· 1 Democratic presidential candidates Dukakis and Jackson be superb ... and a winner in November, and a great President.\ Dukakis was in Albany last Friday on a campaign stop, where he staged a campaign rally in the Empire State Plaza and met the press in the Capitol building. Dukakis's rally was an ob- vious attempt to appeal to the parents and dispel his technocrat, \word processor\ image. He tackled the emotional, family-oriented issue of drugs and youth in America. Dukakis cited experiences he learned of while in New York City: a girl shot on the street by drug dealers, a policeman slain during a drug bust-\ And Reagan says we're winning the war against drugs ... we all wish that were true. We've barely begun to fight.\ \The greatest threat (to America) is not San- dinistas-it's the avalanche of See CANDIDATES, p. 3 Jackson Rallies Support at Empire State Plaza By DANIEL J. KENmY Associate News Editor Jackson entered the break- fast room to a wildly en- thusiastic crowd of supporters, who had paid $100 for the ticket (the same as the Vice- President's breakfast the day before). Mayor Thomas Whalen of Albany introduced Jackson, noting that five Presidents in history were from Albany, so \the quick route to the White House is to establish residency See JACKSON, p. 3 ~ ::> (f) >- ID (f) § I 0... By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-llll·Chief \Expand and explore,\ Dean of Faculty James Underwood reiterated to tile Board of Trustees during the first day of their annual spring meetings April14. The on-campus meetings which took place .Apri114 and 15 saw a full agenda for the The Trustees' meeting convened April 14 and 15 to dis(uss plalls f\or the expansion ()f :tbe Library, graduation sveaker, and the endowme11t. Trustees who ileard reports from approximately seven committees, one o()f which was a report from the A.A.C. (Academic Affairs Committee) which includEd e1 presentation from Underwood on the General Education program. He pressed the issue that the Union ex- perience for incoming freshmen should provide a c::o11tiuwn from high school to college preparing them for the 'breadth and See TRUSTEES, p. 5 By MELISSA SFEWAitT A petition adv()c-ating a ban on nuclear testing received approximately 50() signatures over a three day pe~riod. Signees included stude11ts, faculty, administrators and other college employees. The effort was initiated by the ReligioU:s Programs Office and im- mediately gained the support (Df students, especialLy members of SPAA (Students for Political Awareness and Adjvity). It is a newly formed gro1.1p which is drawing the attenbon of many students who have been in search of an outl-et for their political ideas. Many students consider their felloiV students to be politically apatheti~; however, this view is beginnirug to change as a reswt of several movements this year con- cerning such iS;SIIes a1'l por- nography, restoration (Jf the Nott Memorial, and, now, nuclear testing. Dukakis Wins New York Slate Prin1ary; 011e Step Closer To Democratic Non1inatio11 The petition is being cir- culated through()llt the Capital District by the Commission for Justice and Peaee and the Justice of Albany in Association with the CathCJlic Churcll. Eventually, completed petitions will be pres ented t() Representative Sam Stratton by Bishop Howard J. Hu[)barrl of Albany. The petition was firsot distributed to are-a churches during the lenten season. The petition states, \I eall upo11 the President to imme-diately halt all nuclear testin~ and resume negotiations for a Com· prehensive Test Ban Treaty as a next step tow~rd reversing the arms race. I atiso ca 11 upo,n the Senators aJul Represen- tatives of New Y ()ik to support legislation that w<Juld enact a moratorium on nuclear testing as long as the Soviets do not test.\ By ALEX GARDNER The New York primary, wllich has often come too late to make much difference in Presidential races, has made Governor Michael Dukakis the inarguable frontrunner with a convincing victory on T11esday. Dukakis won by a 2-1 margin over Jesse Jackson as he captured 51 percent of the vote. Jackson received 37 percent and Senator AI Gore 12 percent. Dukakis captured 164 delegates,' assllring party leaders and the electorate that he is the strongest of the Democratic candidates and setting him on a march to the nomination at the Democratic National Con- vention in Atlanta this July. Many Dukakis supporters worried that the white vote would be split by their can- didate and Senator AI Gore, while Jackson would take aU of the blacks who make up an estimated 25 percent of the electorate. However, Dukakis managed to offset the black vote with a clear win with Catholics and Jews. Jackson easily won New York City _ where many of the blacks' reside but lost badly in tbe suburbs and upstate. Gore, who has not won a primary since Super Tuesday six weeks ago, appears to be dropping out, but because of his southern roots remains a logical choice as a running mate for Dukakis. In the next few weeks, Dukakis' primary prospects appear bright. New York offers Jackson an unusually high percentage of black voters that won't be available to him in upcoming states. And without Gore to fight with for the white vote, the upcoming primaries should allow Dukakis to pull away from Jackson in the delegate count. On the Republican side, Vice President George Bush, who ran unopposed, is steadily closing in on the 1,139 delegates needed to secure his nomination at the Republican convention in August. Fortunately for the GOP, they could unite while their rivals fought it out in a politically divisive campaign where even Democratic _Mayor Ed Koch kept attacking Jackson to the last moment, adding he would work against Jackson at the national convention if the nomination wer.e still up for grabs then. But now, as it seems Jackson on the top of the ticket is unlikely, the question is what will be his role at the convention in July\? Will he -wait until then to concede and unite with a party that has been greatly divided by the long primary season! The Summit meeting between President Reaga11 and General Secretary Gorbachev and th.e See TEST BAtJ, p. 4 '# ~ ~ \ill,.~ ...... Photo of the Week: Jackson supporters reveal the 1r plan for America.

Page 2 By NEIL GARROD Visiting Associate Professor of Management The greatest curse of the Thatcher administration has been the wedge which they have driven between the 'haves' and 'have nots' in British society. Ever since the earliest days of Plato's Academy dis- agreements have been the very stuff on which academic development has been based; as Kuhn would say, the 'essential tension'. What faced the audience of 'The Thatcher Phenomenon' lecture, on Monday, April 11 at Union College given by Dr. Martin Holmes, however, was un- supported rhetoric espousing the personal and ideological values of Mrs. Thatcher. A scientific, economic .analysis of their impact on an oil rich Britain was replaced by claim after claim that her .philosophies had been proven correct; by whom and in what context was not made clear. Let us consider some of the 'messaged' assertions made by E>r. Holmes and evaluate them in the light of full knowledge. 1. Hobnes claimed that the monetarist policies of the Thatcher government had defeated double figure inflation. The simplest and broadest definition of a 'monetarist economic p.olicy.' is. the .contJ;ol C>f the . economy through the regulation ,of the amount of money in circulation. Early administrations in the Thatcher era religiously forecast that they would limit any growth in the money supply to control the By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-in-Chief Peace is the ideal political condition. However, many feel it is impossible to attain in todais international turmoil, particularly with the eJtistance of nuclear weapons. Such an immense potential of destruction looms over the head of each individual on this earth - yet the removal of these weapons is feasibly un- desirable. Their excision from a nation-state's military arsenal cannot and should not be ex- pected; their presence is fixed in the international scene. Thus, since true peace is not likely, to come as close to this ideal is the next step. Nuclear weapons are the instruments through which to reach this goal. Although this seems a paradox, threatening the destruction of the w:orld in order to preserve and promote peace, the logicality of this policy has been historically proven. No other time in history since the birth of the modem nation-state (marked by the Treaty of , Westphalia in 1648) has there been an absence of a m'ajor world war in forty consecutive years. This claim can be at- tributed to the existence of nuclear weapons. They are effective deterrents of war. The nations that belong to the ·n.~clear . club' . realize their ,.t ' .... CONCORD! EN SiS,' April'. 21, ·1988 NEWS ANALYSIS Dr. Holmes on Thatcher: Propaganda or Academics? level of inflation. ~qually religiously those limits were ex:ceeded. Exceeded to such an ex:tent, indeed, that the control of the money supply has quietly been dropped from the anm nounced program of the government in recent years; and even Professor Milton Friedman stated publicy that he didn't consider Thatcher economics to be monetarist. It is perfectly true that the level of price inflation in Britain, as Holmes explained, has fallen significantly since the first Thatcher Administration in 1979. However, it is equally clear that this has not been brought about by monetarist economic policy. 2. Another tenet of Holmes' lecture was that Mrs. Thatcher had 'turned around' the British economy and that a balanced national budget, taxation cuts and high rate of growth in the economy were all indicators of this. Let us consider these in- dicators of British economic strength individually: i) A balanced budget: Dr. Holmes told us that Mrs. Thatcher finally achieved this goal earlier this year. Given the huge revenue generated from North Sea oil and the series of recent privatisations this is . hardly .surprising. Keynsi(!n economists, ·however, would · still. arg.ue _ ·that a . b.al,apce~ budget, whilst. a commendable personal attribute, is not an exemplary goal for govermnent because of the detrimental social implications which may ensue. ii) Taxation cuts: these are clearly beneficial to tax payers but the low paid, unemployed and elderly receive no: benefit from such fiscal policies. At a social level the distribution of those tax cuts must be con~ sidered. The lion's share of all the tax cuts introduced since 1979 have gon~ to the better-off and the relative standard of living of the least well-off has consistently fallen. iii) Growth ih the economy: at the present time the rate of growth of the British economy is greater than any other large industrialized co~tcy in the Western World. The decimation of manufacturing industry in the early Thatcher years had led a good porHon of the current growth rate to be related to the lowly starting value of the current growth denominator. Dr. Holmes presented these three factors as copclusive proof that the British economy was now in better shape than .it had been since the Second World War, thanks to Margaret Thatcher. The yardsticks he uses, however, are all disputable; so how is the message conclusive? What are the signs issuing ·from the London Stock Market about the health of the British economy? Following the worldwide stock market crash of last October the recovery of the London market has not been markedly different from that of Wall Street and yet the' American economy continues to have massive government borrowing, little opportunity for tax cuts and a sluggish level of growth: If these factors are considered to be sigllificant by market participants one might expect to see the LQndon ex- change recover from the cr~sh. at a significantly faster rate than New York, Tbis has· .not happened. This, · largely pro- Thatcher, indicator of financial success, then , is slow to en- dorse the economic miracle which Dr. Holmes would have us believe has been wrought by Mrs. Thatcher and her Nuclear Weapons: A Necessary Deterrent to· War position and do not dare flirt with the prospect of a nuclear crisis. The often unspoken policies of first and second strike capabilities are for political power games sinre assuming such a stance brings diplomatic validity of their hearts. (Lacking such a willingness to resort to the use of nuclear weapons, a nation's claims are valid). This demonstrates the nuclear clubs' responsibility towards the possession of nuclear arms. Although this occurred , well after the-- birth of the nuclear age, it wasn't allowed to escalate to a nuclear level. · This tendency to avoid nuclear confrontation can be .further explained by the simple Darwinian theory --- the will to survive. A nation and its leader, whether super-power or third worltl, have the instinctual desire to live. They understand the ramifications of sending off a nuclear missle;. ultimately, such an action will ensure reciprocation. What makes deterrence work is that nation-states do not have to agree to follow the doctrine; they must follow it for the reasons stated: the will to survive is a concept that precedes all cultural and political differences. It comes down to a que13tionof whether or not one-weighs frequent and destructive conventional wars heavier than the slim possibility -.of a nuclear war that comes with nuclear deterrence. After viewing the success .of nuclear deterrence in the past half century, it seems that the escalation of global conflicts to an unlimited warfare level can be avoided through the responsible possession of nuclear arms. ministers. 3. Hojmes also told us that .privitization of nationali?;ea Industries had seen the biggest growth in share ownership ever and had been the greatest tran~fer of wealth to the British 'PeQple ever. Proponents of ·privitization asse:tt, in line with good socialist (sic) thinking, that a broadening of ownersliip of the wealth and means of production ,of a country can only have a positive social impact! Implicit in Holmes' argument was that the last 50 years or so have seen a declining number of in- dividuals holding their in· vestments in the fonn of marketable securties. The truth is that as security markets, and the economy in general, have grown :and become more sophisticated so has the in- frastructure ()f institutions serving that market eco- nomy. Two major forces can be isolated which disguise the 'true' investors: i) The vagaries implicit In share ownership can be rnil)ixnized by investment in a range of different secudties rather tban concentrating in a few selected stocks. Managaement of these port- folios is both difficult and time constiiiling so organizations have sprung up which will undertake these tasks for their client. Thus there h3 a natural movement away from · in- . dividual shareholders and towards institutional Sharehoiders, · as they are called. · ii) The second phenomenon which has oceured in the last thirty years or so is tlte growth in private pension schemes. Many large firms and most civil service and nationalized in- dustries established private pension schemes for thier employees. The size and im- portance of these pension See THATCHER, p. 4 ' Gorbechev Enrolls the · Soviets in Reform School By BRYCE HAY, JR. The SoViet Union is going to reform ·school and Mikhail Gorbachev is the teacher. U'.nc;ler the; Soviet.'s new t~~ch~r they will see the pullout . of troops. t-ro,m A~hanistan,. removal of intermediate range missiles from Europe, and tremendous economic ·and political reforms including joint ventures wit:h American en• terpl\ises. Change does not ·Come easily, though, Gorbachev is meeting quite a bit of resistance from the Government and Com- munist Party. When such things acS decentralizipg the economy are discussed, the Stalin era members of the Party are a bit worried. Not only is tbe economy at stake, but so is the GC>vernment as well. Gor- bacl:lev wants to bring in younger .people to help change the imag.e, to gain support, much like the way American .presidents dq with key ap- pointments like the Supreme Court, etc. Probably the biggest obstacle to Soviet reform is the United States. When · the pullout of troops in Afghanistan was proposed, the United States tried to go for even more. Congress has been slow to endorse the INF treaty. Prominent .. ·soviet : · '1eaders probably feel like the~ ar~ being exploited the small, bu.t positive efforts being made to promote peace are meeting more resistance from the Un;ited States than from the Com· munist Party itself. I have a feeling that President Reagan has a fair amount of desire to promote peace, but inside says that even thougp they are carrying the fig. leaf, Russians are Russians. The cortgress probably has the same feeling, or worse by pushing .for more, some congressmen are looking to enhance their careers, this is the kind of thing that Woul<l definitely get votes. I might add that the Soviet Union is not the only world power to break treaties and act 'un- - democratic'. I advise caution, but this set of reforms is too good to let pass, come on, Anierica, get off the stick and see Gorbachev as the man he is, a reformer. Cc in a~ Al fo .pr dt Tl A, fe G, fil C( p: a1 II a1 H h: a1 hi a: cl a1 is 't~ u p st q c, h Il h n Sl tl p b a F il f t c

Jackson Aims to \Keep America Stron·g, Make America Better'' c:b-tU:ORD'lE:NSI S; iirpril' 21, . 1988 Continued from page 1 Jackson closed by saying that in Albany.\ Jackson graciously \we must pay for the dream.\ agreed to move in . .;,. • _ The way out of. the hole created by the military budget is to Jesse Jackson campaigned in \come out the way we came in- Albany on Wednesday, April13 reverse Reaganomics.'' for the New York State Several key proposals were primary. He hosted a fun- advanced at the end als9: dl'aiser breakfast at the raising minimum wage, a Thruway House on Washington comparable worth for women Avenue, held a press con.. amen<bnent, a Labor Relations, ference with New York Board for strike mediation. Governor Mario Cuomo, and investment in Head Start and finally led a rally in the Con- Day care, peace in Latin course of the Empire State America, genuine peace in the Plaza. Middle East and a free South Jackson began hls speech by Africa. attempting to ''define our -In the brief press conference mission - keep America strong with Jackson and Cuomo at the Page 3 ' D·em·ocratic Candidate Meets With Cuomo Visit Focuses On Enzotional F anzily-Oriented Issues Continued from page 1 drugs .. .if I am elected President, we are going to wage a real war on drugs. and not a phony war,\ Dukakis said. He cited Regan Administration • cutbacks in Coast Guard and : 'law enforcement spending as reasons why the U.S., to date, \can't win\ the war against . drugs. and to make America better.\ capital, the Governor called He' described whatis been Jackson \a singularly happening in his campaign charismatic candidate for the across the country: \there's Presidency.\ He furtber said hope reborn, people have come that \Jesse is addressing ideas alive, peoples lives are I and many Americans are changing about themselves and interested in.\ Cuomo stopped about their neighbors. Healing short .of endorsing Jackson as ''I know whatittakes-tough, :r: unrelenting law enforcement, g but as law enforcement officials ffi . will tell you, it's not worth a ~ . plug nickel w-ithout doing (3 something about demand,\ 5 Dukakiscontinued. is going on, reaching out is his candidate for President. taking place, and expansion is -Jesse spoke briefly on his taking place.'' plan for the· nation. He Jackson attacked the ex- reiterated his cotnmitment to perience issue in his campaign, reinvesting in America's in- stating that the only two frastruct!lfe, and proposed to qualifications are that \you're freeze the military budget for constitutionally old enough, you five years. In doing this, ac· have to be American enough.\ cording to Jackson, we will save He said that the President·does· · 6 billion a year. Cuomo com- have certain qualifications: he mentedthathethoughtJackson must know and respect the law, could win the nomination. In set a moral tone, set direction of candidates\ \You people (the Cuomo gre'i)ted OlJkakis and Jackson during their visits to t~e state capital a11d ~eemed to favor Dukakis as the Democrat1c Presidential_candidate. ~ (/) 0. 0 :r: c.. the nation, and establish press) will take care of the - priorities and\get the nation negatives - w:hat you don't the . beyond war.\ Reagan's first Republicanswilltakecareof.\ Student Forum Reflects On Finances~ G.E.B. Amendment and College Dining Hours By STEPHANIEJARYNA Forum that there has been an adjustment concerning t·he science requi.rement in the G.E.B. proposal. Under the original scienc~ req~ement it was mandatory . for an un- dergradl:late -· student. -to. · ta.~ce · both': a · science ··class ·with ·a minimum of ten lab hours and a second class in the sciences which had a math requirement. acts as President were to \bust The press gingerly questioned PATCO, abandon ERA, was Jackson on Cuomo's strategy of invade Grenada.'' . . . non~endorsement, on the. -.: .:laakson 1 -_ ·prropo~<'~h f·, , ·.hi~ 'fawarr~ Br'awley · ~a:s~i: (which·· mf!issaa:.e. for. New .York:. ·~.stop Jackson Jiefqsed to comment drugs;:\sa:v.e. jobs~· invest'in •our oft) · ~chid' <oit Martin ISrilheY children, comparable worth for King's.ihfllienceon bini. · women, reinvest in America, At the r-ally, attended largely and clean up our environment.\ by curious state employees, Jackson says that in the drug passers-by;· and Jackson sup- war narcotics officials and Ed porters, · -Jesse delivered Meese are ''the . bonafide essentially the same speech as sergeants - I am the General.\ at trre'b:teakfa'st. He compared He hopes to stop drugs a:t their pi:ltti}ig 1 'Iii~ . ql>alitio11' together source. This would entai1 like· ·putting' together a quilt. nieeting ·with. 'foreign le~'ders, There are· .. 'patches • of black, ne-goti{ltbig _: th~· . $'pecUU: whitei r~d\ yellc>_w.:.p~ng t~e_m relationships, . . · : . ' a~d ta.getner .lrke ihe q\li1t.'.' He str:engthening our borders: ·For spoke .. of\ reviving' faitli and drugs, ·Jackson said, \I want to spirit and of a \power in the cut the supply - the people must room Qf hope, love, and cut the demand.\ heaTing ... \ He wants to re-invest money He once again assai~ed the from defense (Star Wars, etc.) charge that his is not ex- to infrastructure. Jackson perienced enough to _ be claims that the U.S. has 13 President. He emphasized his Though just over half of the Student Forum members were , pl;'~sent at la$ week's meetiJlg, , ; the-ForUil1.is stili -<!DntinUing its ·. dr·Lve, ·to impr~ve. stadent\ faculty · ·. ·,and · · student.- administration relations in the college commllllity~ After the minutes of the previous meeting were passed Aaron Carrel reported on the activities of the Academic Mfairs Council • .According to · Carrel the A.A.C, bas approved the General 8ducation Board . Proposal and the pr~posal will - be available t() ~he co}.lege · community for· coiiliDents and approval in the~ near future. · Carrel also expl!riD-ed to . the The revision in the science requirement requires one science class with a minimwn of ten lab hours and then a se- cond class 'in the sciences.' The Student Forwn discussed this amendment and voted against .tbe revision with the reasoning that th~ purpose of the G.E;.B. proposal was to indUce a more . . See ·FQRUM, p.S Pi Sigma Alpha Announces Essay Contest aircraft carriers and the leadership skills. The Con- Pi Sigma Alplla, the Union no later than 4:30p.m. on May 9, 1988; contestants must use their ID munber, and not their Russians have }. There's ''false stitution only requires a College Political Science Honor security - misplaced priorities. President to be 40 years old and Society, is . holding an essay 42 years after the war we're American. According to contest as part of its series on spending 150 billion a year Jackson, \some officeholdt>rs Ethics in Government. The · mime, on the submitted essay. Prizes will be awarded in the defending Europe apd Japan. are not leaders -some leaders essays shou1dc~v:er an aspect of We must shift some priorities.\ are not officeholders.\ ' ethics in political life. The rules · form of gift eertificates to the , bookstore, ill the amounts of .$100, $50~ ood· $25 for first, second, and·third places. --------- ..... ~~~-::-:~:\:\=::\:::\----, of the contest are as follows: TH .I-S W. ·~E.K'S EVEN-TS· The essay may be original or Thursday, April 21: 11 :00-5:00 pm: 9 :oo prn: Friday, .April 22: l1 :00•5:00 pm: 1:00 pm.: 4:00 pm: 5-9:30 pm: 7, 9, & 11 pm: Saturday, April 23: 2 pm-1 am: 5-7:30 pm: 7, 9, & 11. pm: Sunday, April 24: 12:30-2:30 pm: 2-6:00 pm: 3:00 pm: 5:30·~:30 pm: 5·7:30 .pm: 7, 9, & 11 pm: ~::. . - • one that has been ·written for a If r.ou have any questions about the \eSsay contest, contact . Kevin at 386-4324, or Marty at Bloodmobile. Outside College Center. Protestant Minstry Cabaret. CC Atrium. Bloodmobile. Outside College Center. Women's Studies lecture. be bra Barbezat of Amherst College on \Gender Differences in the Academic Structure.\ $oc. Sci. lounge. Philosophy Dept. colloquium. Prof. Christine Korsgaard on \Personal Identity and the Unity of Mency: A KantianResponse to Parfit.\ Hum. 213. Dutchmen's Night. CO Atrium. Film: Dirty Dancing. cc Aud. International Student Union lnternati,enal Weekend. Old Chap. Dutchmen's Ni,ght. CC Aud. Film: Dirty Dancing. CC Aud. Spec .. Olympics. Outdoor track. International Student Union Event CC Aud. UC Concert Band Performance. Memorial Chap. · Student phonathon. Hale !'louse. Dutchmen's Night. CC Atrium. Film: Dirty .Dancing. cc Au d. - . '' I ,1 class; essays must be no more than 3,000 words .( 1() ,pages) ; all essays must be s11brnitted to the Political .Science Department 381-1914. . The Political Science Department is span- soring a public lecture by Prof. Bernard Harvith of Albany Law School on ''AIDS, Politics in the Law- The Present Situation and ·Predictio.ns for the Future\ Tuesday, April 26 at 4:00, College Center, Room 410. ., ' He promised \a permanent co:rrmiitment\ to drug education programs, \starting · in the first, second and third grade, in every school in this land/' Dukakis also promised greater support for ·drug treatment programs and . facilities. \The stakes are clear. I want to lead that battle,\ Dukakis said. \I want to work with you to make this the best America,\ Pukakis concluded, \and the · best America is yet to come.' 1 The tense atmosphere of the rally contrasted vividly with the geniaJ.~ .rela~(:ld m9Qd, at the press conference. · Cuofno arunfttedthat DtikakiS'. was his senior •. and ''preceded him both in time and in level of success.\ As northeast governors, they have been friends for several years. That was obvious in some of their · responses to reporters. Wheri asked if he was con- sidering Cuomo for a post in his administration if elected, Oukakis said he was only working on the Democratic nomination fol' · now-but Cuomo interrupted and said, . \Can we set a date? Mrs. Cuomo's always wanted to see me on the Supreme Court!'' ~ On the more serious side, Cuomo also defended Dukakis on the issue of his lack of foreign policy experience. Cuomo said that the necessary qualities were intelligence, integrity, and decisiveness, all qualities that a _ governor develops in office. Cuomo said that there was \no question\ that Dukakis had those qualities..-\he's one of the most intelligent men in the country\ and would be superb in the foreign policy field. DAM,BROSE CLEANERS 1517 van vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING '. \ '- I: . :

t· Page 4 CONCORDIENSI~, Api'i~ 21, .1988 tc IJ.J 0 z N 1::: .:.:: z ~ (/) >- Ol 0 ·f,- 0 J: n.. ... ,.if\ 1 Members of SP-AA soliolt signatures lor a nuclear test b~m which received much attention from stud-ents faculty a~d administrators. I • 1 Comprehen-sive Test· Ban Treaty Aims To R.eveJse . Nuclear Arms Rac:e :; Continued from page 1 res!llting IiNF (Int~rmediate Nuclear Forces) treaty offers hope that future agre:ements limiting nuclear weapons ate possible. The Summil Js the Reagan Administration:' s only major effort to control the build up of nuclear arms. In fact, .in August of 1985. the Soviet Union unilaterally stopped all nuclear testing. It urged tM United States to jQin its m<Jtatorium and negotiate a permanent end to nqclear testing, but the United States refused. The Soviets resumed testing in February of 1987. advances have been n'lad~ over the ye~rs. l. n . 1963, the. Li~. ited Test Ban Treaty was stgtied. It ended atmospheric ' t~stirtg. Te&ts are now conduCted un- dergroun .. d .. ·.. Figu. res show that since l945, between 1600 and 1700 tests have been conducted in six nations (the United States, the USSR, France, Great Britain, China, and. In- dia). Of these, approximately 1150 have been conducted un- derground. . ln · 1974, · the Threshold Test Ban Treaty was signed, H set a limit on the magnitude of explosive , fc:>rce that canbe used in testing, One fear that many Collect Calls Slip . ·Through Loopholes . .. ' } lll Telecoinmunicati9ns .. Syston1··· ' I By LORI LEON I Union donn residents have accepted over ten tlloU8and . dollar~ worth of international ; <!ollect phone calls ·despite the . College's programming. to prevent it. · · ·· When , planning the' OJimtllrbtttlSlS· INEWS . ANALYSIS . Th-atcher's P.hiiosphies · ·N.ot · Ne-cessa.rily C_o.rrect- CQiitinued. from pag~ 2 : ave;age ®emplQytnent rate of schemes as investment bodies · 9·.4% d]:sguises serlous regional has grown incessantly. , : vliriations. UnempioYPient in These two phenomena '.Wales, Northern Ireland and disguise therefore the true · Scotland is muceb nearer to 20% investors · in British finns.: th~n to 10% and, in· localised Names appearing on lists .of areas, ua.n reaJih lletween 30% shareholders rilRy be those ·of to 40% ~ Eve1:r England shows large financial institutions or wide discrepancieSr with an pension funds but the suppliers affluent south east having a · telecommunications · system, Union pro.gtammed their of those investment .funds ar.e rate 'almost ·malf that of the members of British society. To · · industra)ized n~rth. Secondly · say, as H.olmes did; · that Dr. Hohnes matte ·tiO m•:mtiop of ·. database· so that no collect .calls · · · ·. would' go through. However, ·screehin'g for collect call$ only works on· a national basis. When a collect · caU is· requested the operator cheeks a databas-e to see if' the ·phone being called is a pay phone or a · phonethatshotild not be able to acc~pt· ·cnarg~s. Irlternational operator.s and operators in some small towns do not have access to this databci~e, and so - The Te·lecorn m·~Jnka.tions office discove·red· the proble·nt with coUec:t pho:ne calls . . • ~u~ no tech.nol.(,~ical sol~,tt~.()n exists. to· rem~dy the sHtfation. . prevatization has extended that the fifteen (()!.\ so} . changes •leyel .. of ' owner~hip .. is whiCh have been made in· 'the rmsleadmg. Furthermore calculation <if unemployment . finance .theory wo~d ·~uggest figures since the first days of that to: allure uns()pbisticated '' Mrs, Th~tcher's premiership. • in,ves.tprs : into . oper~ting Changes have occured in both , . d~rectly. m securty .. markets . · toe definition of ·.an 'unem- . ·could be. extremely damaging • · ployed;' p¢rson . and the 'total . to them, ·lt is quite: dear-, that · • .l<;ibour ~orc.e'. For ~xamph~; if · had· th.e. s.tock. mat~~t cra~h <Jf ... , you 9-re. P.u.t. ·9~ . w~r~ for more last year cQme 18-2:t months .. than .a specifiEd tune., you are · earlier, the priiratisation • no. longer ()Onsidered em- sohemes wmild have. led ta the ployable · and• thus ... excluded These two·Ph~nomena disguise from the figurEs, or if you work . therefore the true investors in for just one bou:r per week you • Britis~ firms. Names appearing are no longer in chided in the · on lists of snareholders may be · unemployed .totaL WJ'lil~t the . those . ' l.)f large financial· in:\ total wor.kforcoe figure ba~ peen I stitutii)pS or' pension funds .but expanded or including 'the the suppliers. of those· in- al'med forc:es and the self vestment funds aremembers of employed w.illo were both they.p~Jt tliroughthe(Jollect~aU. · Briti.sh society. To, SaY; .as prev.iously e4cluded. As a The Teleco.xnmunications . Homes ·did, that privatisati()n. recent · editiiJI! of The Lloy«;ls Office discovered the . campus . ha$ ~xtended that · level' ·Of B~k- Revie:W politely stated; .problem with collect phoneca'lls ownership is misleading. ' 1 ... the bistGty of. · unem- in September, · but · no · Furthermore, finance •theory ployment (inBr.iti~nJ ::Iince 1981 technologic;;~l .solution e;ldsts to . would suggest that to alllll'e . . has· become hard to follow ·remedy the situation. . unsophisticated investors into because of ft~qilent .ch(,Ulgesin: Eacl,l month the Telecom.. · operating (ijrectly iiJ $ecurty the .w;ry in which the statistics 1Illitii~ations Office receives a markets , could be extremely na<ve: been cal(:!tfiated.'' Who can listing {rom AT&T that .shows -damaging .to thern. It is quite say wh!it is th.e true trend· in the lQUg diStance calls made on clear, that had the stock market British unempol()ymenttod;;~y? . .campUS, and then the dOllar • crash ·Of last year come 18.;24 The sam~ .article estimates , · am punt . that AT&T would months· earlier, the that 400.,000 luav.e been removed . , cnar:g~ for the c.a)l. ~eiecQ:m\ privatization schemes wotild , from the unem!)lo:vment lists by - ml.mications director Diane b.;:tvejed to the greatest. loss ot . ~ea,ns . .()f statistical . Winkler then proce.sses · the 'Y~_alth to ;t)J.e ;Bp~i~h .:PeoP,le redefinitions and a . further infottnation, applying discounts. ever~een, ' . . ' ; ·. 4001000 by otller special, tern- to th:e AT&T rates. ; lnter., 4. Fin~lly lJQlmes told us that · . porary training schem~s in- na.tional · cans · ~re · not , unemployment, · whil~t' :on~ Df trodueed ;by -FllatcMr gov~tn- • disCoupted. Students are then · · th~ ·· gr~atest faiilll'es' to tile , ments. If . 1;ltese additil:mal billed through · · their · Thatcher administration and .. 800;000 PeoplE are taken . .tnto autMriZation codes. · · still high, was now f~IJing and ·con~idera:Uon. then the unem.· The idea.of a ban on. nuclear testmg is not new. During his administration, President Kennedy said that a;n end to nuclea-r testing \wo\l]d check the spiraling arms race In one of its most dangerous areas.\ In direct contradicti()II with Reagan who feels that testing· : ensures security, Kennedy said, \It (a testing ban) would in- crease our security - it would decre~se the ptofipects of war.\' Since 1945, the arms race has become a matter of designing more acctirate, invulnerable and deadly weapons. The United States and Soviet Union have both shown an interest in reaching an agreement to end nuclear testing completely since the 1950's. Although no treaty has resulted; several . Americans have is that while . the . United States may pphold the treaty, there is no guarimtee that tn~ Soviets Will do the same. ll:<Jwever, satellites and seismic monitoring can detect nuclear tests; A test ban; would help stop the spread of nuclear we<;1pons to other cp_~ntries because it would show that the supet powers are seriously committed to slowing the arms race. Jt would also penefjt . . public health and tli.e en- . B11t when collect· calls are destined to ·fall fUrther: as '·. ployment rate jumps to ~round accepted; they .are not.reeQ:rded eviden,ced by an · irlcreased · • 12.5%. One I)e~son out of ~very · vironment and save taxpayers' money. Without nucleattesting, the ~rrns race ·will necessarily decelerate since testing weapons possessing new technological developements would be impossible. by author~atioll number (as the nti.Itl.ber of job vacanCies·, eight is \lP.able to find WQrk in per~on did not make an. Several points need to ·be 1Britiantoday~ . outgoing call), but by phone ·. made here. Firstly, a national The unfLll~d' vacancies see coLLECT CALLS, P• 5 mentioned b~ Dr. Holmes are · .. ,· Counseling Center Deems -Union -Students \'M. • t . · \' ·, a1ns ream .comprised la::l'gely .of seasonal hotel type wo;rk: or positions for ski:lled teclrni«Jians of some kind. · ~ the· dematld· for which the reshaped Th;atcher . education. . system is laltlentably failing to ·.meet. · · Alumni Council Discusses Variety Of Can1pus Issues ByR.JtEEDWHIIJDEN director of .the Qounseling .. NewsEditor Center and ·assistant prof{;lS&;lr· Furtber e:xarnples of ob- fuscation ab01und in the text .of Dr. Holirtes' address, Those I have highlighted. provide · a Recently t a \report on the of psychology, suggests that psychological health of students perh~ps this is because women By DEBRA B. HONIG Association. The Garnet Guard at Stanford Univer!ility in Paio may be mor~ irtclin:ed to ·discuss consists of alumni who have Alto, Califo~ia was compiled their problems. Dr. Spring also The Alumni Council, With graduated at least 50 yeal,'s ago. by· the Cowell Student Health commented that students here members ranging from Chris J The group, with chairman Center 011 the campus; A survey are ''mainstream.\ Students Hartmann and David L. Cohen Charli~ Van Wormer 1 36,. iS . was taken -concerning the usually go, to the Counseling oftbe. Class of '88 to Joe Donnan planning a dinner for ReUnion aspects of social, academic, and Center to deal with growth or ofthe Class of '72, met Saturday Weekend for about. 150 to 200 personal clia'nenges. Forty-.two changes in their ·lives. They to discuss a variety of campus people. percent oftnose polled said they don't visit the counselors for issues. Mr. Itieschick then discussed had eX:perienced \something negativ~ or bad thing~ only. The President of the Alumni the Student Alwnni.Association, really .bad, upsettii;l~, or \By and large,\ Dr~ Spring CoWlcil Peter Smith '70 began whos.e main goal is ''to foster as trawnabc that was difficult to commented,· ''concerns run the by mentioning the opportunity much interaction between the handle.\ · whole gambit.\ The Counseling alumni will have to get involved students and alumni as Stanford reported a higher Center is alSQ helpful in that . with the Bi-Centennial ap- possible.\ One of· the 15 un- pet•cent of women than men student$ are able to talk about. proa.ching. President John dergraduate members, Dave having such experiences and their emotions with \a neutral Morris then spoke about the loss Wachtel '90, spoke about his they \are most often related to party-it won't get: out ail over of Professor Henry Butzel, a experience at the SAA Con~ intimate relationships.'; The campus\ which can be a member of the biology terence at Towson State in researchers 'alSo reported that problem at a college this size. department, and Charlie Maryland. 1 'in general, women students Dr .. Spring· adde«l that the Morrison, director of Achilles In addition, Mr. Rieschick report a higher level of number of students who come. to Rink .and the Field House and announ<!ed pians to publisb an psychological distress than the Counseling Center iS about fonner hockey coach. He also updated Alumni Directory by men.\ equal from each class .. FreSh~ spoke of the plans tD restore the January '89. The last com- At the Counseling Center men will come in to talk about Nott Memorial, the adaptation . ptehensive directory appeared located on the thitd floor of such things as- homesickness or to the College Center, and the in 1979. Silliman Hall on · Union's other pressures and seniors new teaching program. Karen Huggins '77 spoke .campus, the statistics .al'e a bit tnay .come in to di$cuss, President Morris is also en- about the 76th Annual Fund on 4Hferent. The Freshman perhaps,· anxiety about the thuslastic about the new · l)ehalf of N~tional Chairman Survey taken during orientation f'-'ture~ On ln average the flavour. of the deception fostered by- the ' Thatcher, government. The saddest aspect, is thatt these deceptions 1;1pparently aJe now considered sufficiently eutrenched to be recited by al2ademics as facts . and, as such, material which . may.._ be ptresented in an . acadeinie- enviropment. It is . dear that <1 long hard road awaits if \l'hakl)erism has pervaded even the sanctum of academe. Russian .exchange program, John Temple 67. The total as of : ·indicates that women students Center sees approximately 150 which will involve 35--48 students AprU 11 is $1,561,020 compared are on an average healthier to ~ students a year. And, the . natlon~y. to $1,603,936 as of Apr~.? 191)7. ·. than male students. HQwever, Center b,as the 1 'luxury'! of not liU W-RITING . CENTER ·,, Dlr~or of Alumni Affairs · ~he.noted in her report . Tiu~nQ .. th., Counseling ._:Cent~r~ in having to .report to any .cJtle. ·· P,aUl'Rlescnick reported tg : \Q~eEoutstTandln 1 g ~ 6 e,!!dfiiN ... , ~ ~'.f , general ·seeunore }V.' 9 men th. an They do nQf; ·~.· mplle dft~ other · ,, -< i! OIYUnd\ on the pro~~ ox, . ·, · ..-Qa.n .. • emp e 't~,at~on~ , meb. il'b.e. tati(') ·is'. \'•if•· · tl}Bn the·· Sif.ellltnarl ~;~u.rvey~ • · , \'•1t' Gne,v·;Panr .. ogdr!~'· ... ~~.·.:t. ~~:-.·.n .. e~t ·. C~t;rmah, the 'T5t ·~ftP'~Jll .rfll)imatelr ~-~•~t)9~.10 .,~They are,?:tather, 8,\. wttt~ .. uard: u~ s.INVI!~ IUUIPII!I Ste CAMPUS, p. ~· ··.·· ter.tent. Dr. Donald E. S~Jnng,:;-. model fot tbe -studentf!.i. ~. ' ·•W:..\-··· .............. .......;..---- ........... ~~ ' -, ' ' ,' ' ·t' ' . '· !\-«'\ ' .

CONCORDIENSJS, Aprll 21, 1988 Page S Trustees~ Meetin.g ,Face Full Agenda Campus Renovations, Funding lor the Nott, Admissions' Offices' Expectations, Options for Library Expansion to .See More Attention at June Meeting . Finances ~ong Topics D1scussed by Alumni Council Continued from page 1 depth' required from them in an institution of higher education, as repor.ted by Junior. and Senior Student Trustees Wendy Endress and MClrk Webster. . General Education, Underwood continued, would .actively assist in this goaT by expanding and ex:ploririg. The theme of expand and ex:plore seemed to pervade the two days of .meetings. Plans for the extension df Schaffer Library entered its preliminary phase as the Trustees moved to fo'rm a committee to look into the options for expansion and its funding. Discussiol1 of campus expansion also Included an update on the Blue Gate im- provements. (located at the >intersection of Nott Terrace and Union Street ), landscaping in the area of Jackson's Gardens behind the College Center, the renovations in Lamont House, and the additi!»ns to the Memorial Field House which wHl start this sumrner. As for the restoration of the Nett Memorial, the Trustees discussed their initiatives to receive local, state, and/or federal funding. The first phase of restoratio11 of the Nott will concentrate on the strl.lctural restoration o~ the landmark, as opposed t(); its interior · restoration. Dean of Students .Joseph Mammola re}lorted on behalf of The endowment recouped losses froM the October market crash. the S.A.C. '(Student Affairs Committee} mentioning the • concerns higll on students minds this past winter term. Among them, he listed Gel · Time and Geileral Education as student coneerns. Mamrnola 's presentatiol) , also centered . around the ;increase in the · number of minority students · that are in ;attendance at the · College. He C()rninented that the College has accomplished a lot of headway insetting a wave for . the future alld sighted a goal of . a 30% minority percentage, a figure comparable to colleges of : Union's size. Kenneth l'lourse, dean of admissions, presented the Trustees with statistics of the . - ' ' - . . . - . Studcritl1otising and 'Club Fundina. · · · Discussed by Student Forum o Continued from· page 3 the S.A.C. fol' Bronner House. Liberal Learning Education at The S.A.C. will be looking into Union. The cllange in the· the proposals c()f.each group and science requirement makes it will eventually make a possible for students to take •gut recommendatbn to Residence courses' in order to fulfill the Life as to wllich groups they requirements not in their major believe shouldlive in the houses . and this does not fulfill the :in the. upco~in.g. ~chool year. pilrpose of th_e ~.E .. :B: proposaL · Under• n1ll'i ··business 'the· incoming freshmen {class of 1992.) . He reported that the applicant pool incre.ased from 3004last year to 344() this year .. The acceptances sent out by the admissions office was. down by approximately 300, and he estimates that 40% of those accepted will chose to attend. Overall, Admissions expects that their yield will greatly increase due to the rise in ap- plicants compounded with the decrease in acceptances sent out by admissions. •. Continued from page 4 FWld maintains an excellent pace (after all - we kicked off six months ago!} The figures . · (still ahnost $200,000 more at ·. this time than two years ago) . reflect that some donors have · changed the timing of their .gift, • not their willingness to give.\ Some 5.6-57 percent of the , alumni contribute to the fWld · about every year which places · Union in the top 1-2 percent in the . country in participation according to Mr. Rieschick. This ReUnion Weekend, all . major events will take place on · . . campus, said Gail Goodinan The graduation spEaker was · also officially announced at the meetings. J. Peter Grace is .schedUled as the guest speake~ on June 12 and will receive an : · honorary degree from tbe .· · College. ; · Snitkoff '74, co-.chair for the · event with Dr. Arthur Salvatore . JR. '62. Alumni will therefore . have an opportunity to enjoy the :. new College Center, and to The Finance Committee announced that they recouped all the losses incurred from the October market crash. They Junior Trustee elections scbeduled for June 6 fttrther reported tllat the en· downment earning~ are in· • creasing at a relatively steady rate, a rate compa~;able to the S & P 500 (Standard ilnd 'PQor), The· finalized budget proposal was passed at th~ meeti11g without ~my changes officially establishing the 10.5'% increase in tuition and rooms and boatd, according to Endress a11d Webster. relive memories of the West College Be~ch grounds. For Homecoming '88, coD chairs Kathryn Mullaney '74 . and Robert Bruhn '69; and student co-chairs Laura • Cassidy '89 and Maria Kapogiannis '89, are planning to · implement three new events. The events are a Sat·urday . evening nightclub with live entertainment, a Saturday night dinner hosted by the Student Alumni Association,. and a Homecoming Tailgate tent with quality food during the football game. A number of liaison representatives tben reported to the council, beginning with an overview of the current ad- missions process from Dean of Admissions Kenneth Nourse. The next Trustees meeting is scheduled for grad11ation, tile weekend of Friday, June 11. Elections for Junior Trustee ln a report from the Buildings and Grounds Committee, William Bener '58 described the . ( cl~s~ r,f 19~0) are sc·h~duled f()r. $1 million construction project . Fr1d~y, May 6~ Stuclent Forurn to add locker rooltis and a ei~r;;tton~ ar¢_~lso ~<;i!e~~Jed fQr .· .tr~irling .. r()om·.to. the .. Field this date. · House. According to the· report, this ex:tension will be on the south .side of the Field Ho11Se, and will replace the temporary trailer and the access road. The construction, scbeduled to st:art this summer, will add some 40 feet to the Field H()use . Moreover, the refurbishment of JackS<m's Gardens should be completed this swnmer. The College Finances Liaison Report, submitted by Judson Escalante '53, projects that Union's ranking among 46 colleges for tuition, room, and board will not change ·~ap­ preciably\ for 1988-1989. Union is thirty-second for 1987-19118. In terms of financial aid,. Union will make a $550,000 increase for the upcoming year. His report on compensation and benefits reads, \For 1988-89 the budget proposes an average wage adjustment at 5 percent, plus dollars for perfcrmance rewards. In addition benefits costs will increase by 12 ier- cent ... \ The college is also planning to add ten new faculty positions. The Liaison Representative for Faculty and Academic Programs, Anton Warde '64, outlined the General Education Board's proposal to begin with the Class of 1993. Joseph Zolner '76, Uaison Representative of Student Life, swnmarized a handful of iss11es, such as Black History Mcnth, the AIDS conference, the pronography issue, financial support for students, and Concordiensis's recognition by the Columbia School of Jour- nalism. In a written report he said, \Over the past few months, the campus has hosted a number of activities ad- ·dressing important societal i~sue~ that span well beyond the 'brook'that 'botmds'J' J.eap IV1~tus, reporling· for the' Fortfrh discussed'~heir pi~~ for Finance Committee relayed to . the Faculty Panel D1scussion the Forum the recent request and LlUlcheon they will be from adxpinistrators that·. the . hosting on Tuesday. Issues to be Forum reconsider their position 1 disc]!ssed on 'tile panel are Gel on financing ooth Crew and · Time artd . the General Cheerleaders. During the ·Education Bo;ard Proposal. Any winter term Forum voted not to stUdent interested in the is~ues fund the clubs because they ·to be discusse~~nd wouldlike to were member exclusive. After attend the p:anel discussion Most Students Accept Responsibility for Collect Calls; Difficulties Persist . discussion among the Forum should contact Michael Hiller. rrie;rp.bers . p1:~sent ~ com• Finally, thE Student Forwn . promise was reacb,ed in ~hich discussed the problems which the Forum would agree to fund. the student body has en- the operating e.x:penses of the countered as<~ result in the new Crew club and the Athletic Food Service 'h()urS started this Department would. secure and ·term. Cornpl.aints included finance a coach for the club. discontent vrith the over· The decision was also made to crowded atmosphere in the fund the Cheerleaders for at · College Center on the weekend, least the upcoming school·year .. also the fact tllat the Deli has Jennifer Scully reported to not been opell in the Skellar past the Forwn that the Social eight o'Clodc in the eve11ings Continued from page 4 number. When the Telecom· munications Office receives their monthly listfng .from AT&T, the collect «:ails are listed by phone numl>er and so the st11dent must be tracked down. This is done tlu:ough the listings of campus room and corresponding phone nwnbers. This process can be time consllining, as the office must contact each person living in that rooin. It is also difficult because residencies in rooms change, in addition to some students unwilling to admit to accepting collect calls. through the process of collec- : ting payments from the students. Last year'.s charges were paid for from the · telecommunications budget, which is authorized by the finance and admmnistration • of~ice. When the Telecom- \It's a little dif'fkult on our end and this term we're ho(>ing the students have the intt>gritJ . to pay for what thcv',·c used \ . - . -- Alternatives Collllli.ittee would and the grUl has not been ()pen be investigating that request of . J>ast eight o 'd()ck in the College sp.~cial interest housing to live . Center. Pla11s were made to in Bronner and Srnith House. As · contact ajppropriate ad· of last week, both BLAS and ministrators to voice the International House have · discontent of tile Forum. petitioned for Smith House The Forum will be meeting along with tv.r() additional tonight at 7:100 p.m. in the groups of stude11ts. Quly one College Center., all are welcome group of girls has petitioned to to attend. 1n January, the Telecom- ' munications Office began mrutications Office receives the billing students for t:he collect AT&T bill, they pay AT&T and calls~ St11dents are being billed · • then collect pa:Yrnent from the for this academic ye.ar, as the students. Tile College is thus chargesfromlast year were not paying up front on the substantial enough to go . guarantee that the students will reimburse it. UNION COLLEGE PRESENTS A WRITING AND LITERATURE LECTURE SERIES May 9,t 0, 11 , 13 WRITING AS REHEARSAL: USING LANGUAGE TO SHAPE OUR IMPRESSIONS . Monday, May 9- Alan Nelson- Room 409 HARD READING (OBSCURITIES IN MODERN POETRY) TtJesday, May 10- WilLiam Hathaway- Room 409 THE CREATIVE PROCESS: THE PO,ET AND THE TEX.T Wednesday, May 11- Jordan Smith--- Room 203 AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL WRITING: THE FICITON OF TRUTH Friday, May 13--- Ftank Gado- Room 409 FREE TO THE PUBLIC 11:00 ·1:2:00 NOON UNION: COLLEGE CENTER Piease Preregister at the Office of Gra<II.Jate and Continuing Studies, Wells HOuse, Schenectady,NY t2308, (518) 370-6638 Winkler has had some dif- , ficulties collecting payment . . from students .for these in- , ternational Collect phone calls. For example, S(Jme students feel that tlley should not be responsible for the acceptance of the collect calls because there is no written contract detailing telecommlUlication charges. · \It's a problem, but we're . working on how to best solve it,'' Winkler said. She does not . want to \tighten controls, but . rely on kids to have integrity .. and honesty.\ She haS had no problems with most of the students, but is still working with 20 percent of the students who accepted international ,phone calls. Winkler was pleased that most students have had the honesty .to accept responsibility for the charges. \It's a little difficult on our end and this term we're hoping the students have the integrity to pay for what they've used.\ She has discussed the matter with Wood, Hauser, Mammola, and they are planning to put something in writing for next year. Other colleges have been known to turn .off their phone systems, but that is not a top option here, according to Winkler. She believes that at least incoming freshmen should be able to speak to their parents at the beginning of the year. On a more. positive note, the Telecommunications Office has been able to trace obscene phone calls originating on campus. \In some cases we have been able to turn over viable information to the Residence Life Office, and they in turn deal with the parties.'·' There have been about six cases wh:ere students have asked for · help regarding obscene calls. Overall, Winkler is pleased with the system : • 'I think the system itself works well ... there was not one case of a vandalized phone. I'm really happy about that.\ '. ' \.

Page 6 CONCOR.DJEN.SIS,. April 21, .rf988 FEATURES T.alk o.f the Town Concordiensls recently asked: ''What do you want to get o:ut of Union College this spr{ng term?'' \Plenty of \Gel Time\ for those mid week parties.\ Frank litz '91 \At least 36 holes of golf each week, and catch all of the Mats games on the tube. .. Time permitting maybe even write a theses.\ Jo.hn Commings '88 Photos and Interviews by Sue Kersch · \Looking for the eternal buzz.\ Julie Gallo '89 Missy Hlac;iik '90 nl want to be a brother.\ Todd Ade-lman '90 \I'm n search of the bottomless drink ... of coke that is .... Kathy .Lawliss ~91 Life In Richmond By SUZANNE SHAKER and MELISSA LEVINE During the month of August, about- fifty prospective Union College freshmen women are notified through the mail that they will be living in Richmond House, an all female dorm. Cries and screams resound throughout Long Island and Westchester County. On this campus Richmond is regarded as a boring, quiet, chaste, an- tisocial,subdued and generally lame place to live, especially during the formative freshman year. These characteristics have led to its most popular nickname, \The Nunnery;\ AlthotJgh not the social center of Union's campus Richmond is a place of many misconceptions. Let us reinforce the truths and dispel the myths about this donn. We intend to focus more on the positive aspects since you have probably already heard _the negative ones. It is true that studying does exist inside the walls of Rich· mond. In general Richmond residents, unlike residents of most other dorms need not find alternate places of study. In fact, Richmond is one of the only donns fortunate enough to possess study cubicles. Not only are they private, but the graffiti on the walls provide a con· venient and entertaining study break diversion. For claustrophobics~ however, the cubicles are not a viable alternative. Life in Richmond is not all studying. The lights do not go out by eleven every night. Although girls in general are not as loud and rowdy as guys we are still able tD have fun in each other's company. Rich- mond is definitely not a \party palace,\ but our doors are always open and hallway ac- tivity does exist. Believe it or not we even socialize among ourselves in the absence of our male companions. Most agree, one of the most positive aspects of Richmond life is the sense of female comraderie. Without a doubt the opposite, in all their greatness is a distraction. We Richmondites have the advantage of being with guys, you wonderful creatures, when ritualistic group sessions are heard through the thin cin- derblock walls and ancient heater vents. Although waking up three times in one night, in the middle of February and tumbling downstairs after passing out in just a T-shirt can be an awesome experience we think we can speak on behalf of all Richmond residents: We.st, Fox, Davidson, etc. keep your fire drills. We are plenty satisfied with our one \drill\ a month. They enable us to check out the conspicious ('un)lucky overnight guests of the male persuasion. .And last but not least our bathrooms ar~ im· maculate compared to most of the others on this campus, free from Friday and Saturday night dinner. Of course, living in Riclunond is not all fWl and diet coke, Richmond is downright ugly. The narrow, dimly lit hallways, obnoxious ceilings, cinderblock walls, ancient furniture and linoleum floors contribute to its understated elegance. But rumor has it that Richmond wilJ be renovated for the 1988-89 school year. Being in one of the only two dorms with nightly security check-in can be both a curse and a blessing. Your boyfriend cannot romantically stop by for a surprise visit in the middle of the night. Then again, it is unlikely that a strange Doid in a drug induced stupor will uninvitedly sit at the foot of your bed and hwn Led Zepplin tWies. (As happened to me last year living in one of the less secure dorms.) Although every student living on this campus has had the privilege of pearing the assorted fraternity songs, chants and llinericks all-girl Richmond seems to be one of . the central serenading targets we want to and \throwing\ you out When we-'ve had enough. ~ Because we have the option of > d :::l leavingthemen, an. the parties <l: behind, coming home to Rich- (/) mond feels more like coming ~ w \borne.\ :!: of the initiation weelcs. Richmond is truly unique in being the only dorm to have its ·own formal dinner-dance. We must admit that the Riclunond extravaganza was more fun · th~m we had anticipated, and ~ hopefully set a precedent. ~ Although the Richmond social -' life started out a bit slowly in ~ A the fall, we have been u:l pleasantly surprised that most ~ of the harsh rumors about Rich- 1;i mond are false and the true o ones do not seem all that im- 5 ~ J 'T ' portant. c: . \Dis' certainly ain't the party room!\ Fox Davidson: The Suite life By LISA CIIERANDE The housing lottery for next year is coming up soon. Time to think about the inevitable -time to think ab,out fall term while · still in the spring term. Must we deal with a low lottery number when we do not really have to face the consequences of our decisions (or mly alternatives for some unlucky sophomores) until next year.'! I say deal now bef()re it becomes too late, and you become an unwanted third person in a double that only accommodatestwo! Living in a Fox Suite, I have become slightly biased, but never- theless am g()ing to tell you about that resici.ence option you really ought to consider for next year. Last year as an inco_ming freshman, I chose the \suite option\ as my housing preference, but seeond to a co· ed dorm of course. I had no clue as to what a suite entailed, or even how many people lived in one. I chose the suite because it sounded more interesting than a generic coHeg.e double. Unfortunately I was to regret that decision all summer as my' worried mother nagged me about how I might get stuck living in a room with eight or ten people! Then she proceeded to tell me how I was never going to be able to sleep or study with such a large group of people. In August, much to my parents' relief, I received only three names for my soon-to-be roommates. Day one of orientation, may family and I entered this strange thing. called a suite to find a beautifully, spacious room with a large window and a couch. Exploring the room I found two bedrooms adjoined t'o the suite, both with bWtkbeds and a desk. My parents left still ap- prehensive that I was never going to get any sleep -or studying all semester, but relieved that the rooms were not the infamous shoeboxes they had when they were in college. roommates has quite a few benefits. If one roommate is studying, you still have the other two to make popcorn with, and the living room to hang out in while you make the popcorn. Our extra room also allows us to have numerous guests on the occasion of a small gathering, a.k.a. a party. In addition, we found the living room just large enough for our own version of \hall sports.\ It is quite the perfect place to entertain, and far preferable to entertaining in the small, cramped double. The down side of having a suite is that my life has revolved around my suitemates so~much that when alone in the room for just a few hours I experience withdrawal. I have become so used to always having at least one of my roommates around ·that I was totally unprepared · when all three of my room· mates, for a mixtlire of cir- cwnstances, went away for the weekend last term. How lonely it was coming home to an empty room! My sUitemates have become rny family. Living in a sUite has been a lot of fun. I have not regretted that blind decision I made last year as a prospective freshman though I suspect my parents still think I never get any sleep with aU those people in my room. Editors' Note: . Over the following weeks Concordiensis will be reviewing the dorms in order to help rnal<e your selection easier. Good L4Jck Coming home to Richmond is ~ also when the fun of sharing o juicy, gossip .filled stories ~ begins. The stories that are not o.. made public during the Climbing the wall& in Richmond. As the school year was to proceed I .found Uving in a suite quite a wonderful experience. I loved having three roonunates because it provided me with three automatic friends who were always to be there for me when I needed them. You must understand I was blessed with three of the best roommates a freshman could ever want! My mother so kindly warned me the previous silrtune1· that I could get stuck with three people whom I absolutely . detested. Life would not have been as pleasant! Having three

Page 6 CONCORIJIENSIS, April 21, 1988 FEATURES Talk of the Town Concordiensis recently asked: \What do you want to get out of Union College this spring term?\ \Pie nty of \Ge I Time\ for those mid week parties.\ Frank Litz '91 \At least 36 holes of golf each wee!<, and catch all of the Mets games on the tube. ~ Time permitting maybe even write a theses.\ John Commings '88 Photos and Interviews by Sue Kerscln \Looking for the eternal buzz.\ Julie Gallo '89 Missy Hladik '90 \\mllff!Jiff!W ·<\'~ ~,, «<'\ ·::~ \I want to be a brother.\ Todd Adelman '90 ,, \I'm in search of the bottomless drink ... of coke that is. R Kathy lawliss '91 Life In Richmond BySUZA.NNESHAKER and MEUSSA LEVINE During the month of August, about fifty prospective Union College freslunen women are notified through the mail that they will be living in Richmond House, an all female dorm. Cries and screams resound throughout Long Island and Westchester County. On this campus Richmond is regarded as a boring. quiet, chaste, an- tisocial,subdued and generally lame place to live, especially during the formative freshman year. These characteristics have led to its most popular nickname, \The Nunnery.\ Although not the social center of Union's campus Richmond is a place of many misconceptions. Let us reinforce the truths and dispel the myths about this dorm. We intend to focus more on the positive aspects since you have probably already heard the negative ones. It is true that studying does exist inside the walls of Rich- mond. In general Richmond residents, unlike residents of most other dorms need not find alternate places of study. In fact, Richmond is one of the only dorms fortunate enough to possess study cubicles. Not only are they private, but the graffiti on the walls provide a con- venient and entertaining study break diversion. For claustropho bics, however, the cubicles are not a viable alternative. Life in Richmond is not all studying. The lights do not go out by eleven every night. Although girls in general are not as loud and rowdy as guys we are still able to have fun in each other's company. Rich- mond is definitely not a \paity palace,\ but our doors are always open and hallway ac- tivity does exist. Believe it or not we even socialize among ourselves in the absence of our male companions. Most agree, one of the most positive aspects of Richmond life is the sense of female comraderie. Without a doubt the opposite, in all their greatness is a distraction. We Riclunondites have the advantage of being with guys, you wonderful creatures, when we want to and \throwing\ you ritualistic group sessions are heard through the thin cin- derblock walls and ancient heater vents. Although waking up three times in one night, in the middle of February and tumbling downstairs after passing out in just a T-shirt can be an awesome experience we think we can speak on behalf of all Richmond residents: West, Fox, Davidson, etc. keep your fire drills. We are plenty satisfied with our one \drill\ a month. They enable us to check out the conspicious (un)lucky overnight guests of the male persuasion. And last but not least our bathrooms are im- maculate compared to most of the others on this campus, free from Friday and Saturday night dinner. Of course, living in Richmond is not all fun and diet coke, Richmond is downright ugly. The narrow, dimly lit hallways, obnoxious ceilings, cinderblock walls, ancient furniture and linole.um floors contribute to its understated elegance. But rumor has it that Richmond wiH be renovated for the 1988-89 school year. Being in one of the only two dorms with nighti;: security check-in can be both a curse and a blessing. Your boyfriend cannot romantically stop by for a surprise visit in the middle of the night. Then again, it is unlikely that a strange Doid in a drug induced stupor will Wlinvitedly sit at the foot of yow· bed and hwn Led Zepplin tunes. (As happened to me last year living in one of the less secure dorms.) Although every student living on this campus has had the privilege of hearing the assorted fraternity songs, chants and limericks all-girl Richmond seems to be one of the central serenading targets out when we!ve had enough. ~ Because we have the option of ~ leaving the men, and the parties ~ behind, corning home to Rich· ~ mond feels more like coming ...1 ...! \home.'' ::!: '\ u ~-.; ~~, t'{<, fj%& of the initiation weeks. Richmond is truly unique in being the only dorm to have its own formal dinner-dance. We must admit that the Richmond eKtravaganza was more run than we had anticipated, and ~ hopefully set a precedent. ~ Although the Richmond social :;:: life started out a bit slowly in ~ the fall, we have been ::J pleasantly surprised that most ~ of the harsh rwnors about Rich- fii 1r mond are false and the true o h\.· ones do not seem all that im- Q , portant. o::. \Dis' certainly a1n't the party room!\ f X h Davi so Suite life ByLISACHERAN:OE T'ne housing lottery for next year is coming up soon. Time to think about the inevitable- time to think about fall term whilt still in the spring term. Must we I deal with a low lottery number I when we do not really have to I face the consequences of our I decisions tor only alternatives I for some unluclty sophomoi\eS 1 I until next year'? I say deal now before it becomes too late, and you become an unwanted third person in a double that only accommodates two! Living in a Fox Suite, I have become slightly biased, but never- theless am going to tell you about that residence option you really ought to consider for next year. Last year as an incop1ing freshman, I chose the \suite option\ as my housing preference, but second to a co- ed dorm of course. I had no clue as to what a suite entailed, or even how many people lived in one. I chose the suite because it sounded more interesting than a generic college double. Unfortunately I was to regret that decision all summer as my· worried mother nagged me about how I might get stuck living in a room with eight or ten people: Then she proceeded to tell me how I was never going to be able to sleep or study with such a large group of people. In August, much to my parents' relief, I received only three names for my soon-to-be roommates. Day one of orientation, may family and I entered this strange thing called a suite to find a beautifully, spacious room with a large window and a couch. Exploring the room I found two bedrooms adjoined to the suite, both with bunkbeds and a desk. My parents left still ap- prehensive that I was never going to get any sleep or studying all semester, but relieved that the rooms were not the infamous shoeboxes they had when they were in college. roommates has quite a few benefits. If one roommate is studying, you still have the other two to make popcorn with, and the living room to hang out in while you make the popcorn. Our extra room also allows us to have numerous gue&s on the occasion of a small gathering, a.lt.a. a party. In addition, we found the living room just large enough for our own version of \hall sports.\ It is quite the perfect place to entertain, and far preferable to entertaining in the small, cramped double. The down side of having a suite is that my life has revolved around my suitemates so much that when alone in the room for just a few hours I experience withdrawal. I have become so used to always having at least one of my roommates around that I was totally unprepared when all three of my room- mates, for a mixture of cir- cumstances, went away for the weekend last term. How lonely it was coming home to an empty room! My suitemates have become my family. Living in a sUite has been a lot of fun. I have not regretted that blind decision I made last year as a prospective freshman though I suspect my parents still think I never get any sleep with all those people in my room. Editors' Note, Over the followrng woeks Concorrdlens is w:r: be reviewing the dorms m ordr?• ro halp make your s<Ji,}Oron ea;,,e:. Good Luck Coming home to Richmond is ~ also when the fun of sharing o juicy, gossip filled stories ~ begins. The stories that are not a.. made public during the Climbing the wall~ in Richmond. As the school year was to proceed I found living in a suite quite a wonderful experience. I loved having three roommates because it provided me with three automatic friends who were always to be there for me when I needed them. You must understand I was blessed with three of the best roonunates a freshman could ever want! My mother so kindly warned me the previous summer that I could get stuck with three people whom I absolutely detested. Life would not have been as pleasant! Having three i J l l .. . ! ,,

CONCORD1ENSIS, April 21, 1988 Page 7 .FEATURES ·on Auto Pilot? Take Control! By SUSAN SHAFFER Features Editor Leave! Go away this weekend. Pack your bags and depart quickly. While at Union we become so busy in our ac- tivities that we have no time to stvp and think about what we are doing. It seems as if we ave on autopilot until the end of the term, then at that time we realize how our life was affected by this nonSt()p hustle. We. can catch oursel:ves however. This past weekend I had the op- portunity to go on a retreat with my ·sorority. Living in a cabin on the lake waswhat I needed to gain a new perspective on my life at Union. It was as if the . mountain air actually stimulated my thinking proc~ss. I was able to review how my time at school is being spent and h()W it has affected my life to date~ It is easier to set one's priorities if one is removed from the pressures foUnd on campus. Now back·on camp~s, I real~e all that I can be doing,. One cannot be in- volved in everything yet everyone sbould be contributing to this community of which we are a part. If we are members of this community which prides itself in being an institution of higher learning then we mll:;Jt all contribute. This will not jllSt benefit Union but it will be most beneficial to ow•selves. While at college we are given opportunities that may never be offered again. We mtlst take advantage of the time that we haveheteat Union. With only24 hours in the day, however, it is often <lifficult to do all that ()ne wishes~. Once our priorities are set we can then devote the time required cf us. No one on campus should have to sit around with nothing to do, there is much that can be done. Besides our course work, tbe innumerable stude11t organizations, various team sports, lectures and films which Union offers, time can also be spent exploring the library, J-ackson's gardens or even Schenectady. While away from the stresses found at Union it did enter my mind to abandon the tension I find at school and stay at the lake. However, I believe that we all have a responsib!lity to our society, We cannot abandon our peers and leave them with the responsibilities. It is imfair for anyone to not contribute to Union. Contributions can be made through an immense amount of ways yet we all need to take part. We can make a difference! We need to take control of our lives and work, for those who have-keep up the good work, and for those who need that little or big push-here it is! Hersh and Robe ponder the aesthetic value of the Patio's \finger foods.\ Out to Eat With Hersh and Robe By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS The Patio This week we sought a good and inexpensive sandwich and appetizer type restaurant; we hoped the Patio Restaurant and Pub would be such a place. It offers a menu similar to the Ground Round, with the ad- dition of pizza and several Italian dishes. Burgers and grill items are the mainstay of the menu, and there is a variety of \finger foods\ such as wings, nachos, and potato skins. Soups and salads are also among the- choices at The Patio. Along with our guest Oscar, for -appetizers we shared chicken sticks and nachos. I was going to try the chili, but our waitress warned that it was extremely hot. She offered to bring a small sample, but it never arrived. Our order of nachos was of average size, with plenty of tomato chunks and olives, though not enough meat for my taste. The cheese, which imparted a nice zing to the dish, had a pasty texture unliJte that found on most nachos. The seven large chi~ken sticks came with a zesty barbeque sauce and some ratiler watery tomato sauce. Breaded and fried, the chicken was crispy on the outside and tasty. Oscar chose the Aspen, a lar.ge hamburger with mushrooms and sour cream on a toasted sesame-seed bun. After much prodding, he told us that he enjoyed it and that it was \done right.\ Robe had the Sicilian, consisting of pastrami, bacon and melted mozzarella cheese on a large roll. The pastumi was very lean and he enjocyed the sandwich a great deaL Unfortunately, the ac- companying french fries, which looked thin and crispy, were actually thin and soggy. Senioritis Afier appetiZers, the rest of my meal went downhill; my main course served long after Robe'S' and Oscar's. Our waitress explained that the chef had burnt it, and had to do it over. Even when my Barclay (a roast beef, peppers, onions, mWlhrooms and mel ted cheese sandwich) arrived, I was none too tllrilled. The sandwich was somewhat greasy, and the cheese was not cheddar as the menu stated. It was clear that the french fries were rushed- they were undercooked and thor()ughly greasy. :ByLEATAJACKSON Seni()ritis is a column designed to bring together announcements of .particular interest to members of the class of '88. -The last bloodrnobile·1Vill be on campus today and tomorrow. - Please support the serlior class gift. Do you realize that we are the last class to remember painting the idol behind the library? Decisions, dec.isions, decisions. One of the more sobering aspects of senior year is making decisions that could affect a good part of the rest of our lives. The first question to deal with is graduate school or the world of work. Next question is where to go. Should we stay at home? Should we go to a big city? a sman city? If we want to get a job, where? how to go about finding one? when to start looking, when to start the fir$ day? what. kind of job to look for? Nowadays, too, em- ployers like to see advanced degrees. So that means mor~ decisions. Do we go ·at night·~ Do we work a few years then go back to school? Where should we go? On the other hand, if graduate school is the thing to do right out of college, where is the money to come from? And grad school doesn't last forever. All of the pains and questioning about employment will have to be faced eventually. Sometimes, it seems the more options we have, the harder it is to make a decision. . People deal with decision- making in different ways. You can ask Mom and Dad but if they are like mine, they say \That's nice, dear. What did you decide?\ Big help, right? Some people drink, some cry to their best friend, others just put off the decision until later. The CDC is a good place for in- formation. Your advisor may be able to help also. Perhaps a list of pros and cons would allow a logical decision to come to light. Whatever you do, don't panic. Everyone else is wondering what to do too. Only 52 more days to enjoy going to the movies for only a buck. On the whole, the service at The Patio was shaky. Our waitxess seemed a little distracted, and thanksto Oscar, we 11oticed that she had over- charged us several dollars. AlthCJugh the Patio was a pleasant place to eat, we were b<Jthered by a draft at our table. The restaurant also has a large nice looking bar. Bued on our 1·10 point rating system, relative to other rest11urants in the area and of comparable price, I gave The Patio a 5 (which is average on our ~cale). Robe's experience was more enjoyable, and he rated it a 61f.a. The Patio Restaurant and Pub 408 Rosa Road Schenectady, N.Y. 377-9\154 All major credit cards ac- cepted.- . Price~ for three, with tax before tip: $2S.51. DlD YOU KNOW THAT THERE IS NO LONGER AN ENVIRONMENTAL ALLIANCE AT UNION ? If interested in preserving the environment and getting . involved on campus, come to an organizational meeting regarding a celbration of EARTH DAY. Join us today at 5:00pm in the College Center. I I

CONCON.DIENSIS, April 21, 19.88 Page 7 FEATURES On Auto Pilot? Take Control! i'SySUS.AN SHAFFER Features Editor Leave! Go away this weekend. Pack your bags and depart quickly. While at Union we become so busy in our ac- tivities that we have no time to stop and think about what we are doing. It seems a::. if we are on autopilot until the end of the term, then at that time we realize how our life was affected by this nonstop hustle. We can catch ourselves however. This past weekend I had the op- [-lort unity to go on a retreat with my sorority. Living in a cabin on the lake was what I needed to gain a new perspective on my life at Union. It was as if the mountain air actually stimulated my thinking process. I was able to review how my time at school is being spent and llow it has affected my life to date. It is easier to set one's priorities if one is removed from the pressures I·\\' -·f I ' . io1:1.11d on campus. Now back on campus, I realize aU that I can be doing. One cannot be in- volved in everything yet everyone should be contributing to this community of which we are a part. If we are members of this community which p:rides itself in being an institution tlf higher learning then we must all contribute. This will net just benefit Union but it will be most beneficial to ourselves. While at college we are g1ven opporttmities that may never be offered again. We must take advantage of the time that we have here at Union. With only 24 hours in the day, however, 1t is often difficult to do all that one wishes. Once our priorities are set we can then devote the time required of us. No one on campus should have to sit around with nothing to do, there is much that can be done. Besides our course work, the innumerable student organizations, various t earn A v · Sn . ,·· ·.. . . :;:: ~-· ,:;. -,.- . ~- By· HOWlE LAZAR All r-ea:soll;(ble qufiSti&ns•ft()fP 1 tisbJ»nt J'ulld ~nd drinf4 :stcereo at~d . spq~t>'! ~r$ 1 • s~ ~nd i:hiting; .. to' tashi· ailif: ~t'iiJ:JJette-will be c~nsider'lld t'Ot ppJ!'U'lt~~loji,:. · 'i'h~'. ·•ru.ost prov~il:atlve} pertilient inqnirills, \viR b;i,l P'~'ASttttl,!.!il ht this c{)f.illnn ·•eaelj wook. Send an problerns to Unionr CoUege .Bmr 1~6!:7. · lfu.w d{t y~u kli{):W wJum 'l!nougb is enough?4l.H~ Lwill as~tmf'C :IP.r the ~a'!>¢: of simpliCity 1h~!ty()U aw. refcrtinj},t;() alcohol and not tG ~ ot 'B1t'fOOS: ~·e.oougb 1 ''h·a wlati:veterm, :ami' each person bas hi~ Qwn point oftt'C · return• As· :a rule of thumb thoush, when your stomach is banging out of y(lur mmnh whUu you are pt1kiug y>Our guts up, it is almost abollllimc to stop. lf yott arc ludy enough to be one cl those pe.<>ple who passes oot after imbibing lactg:e quatHities of ldcohel, you needn't wo.:try because yottt body in:stmetivelyknows )Vncn you've bad enough. Aleohot,like any drug, can be dangerous if ~huscd; hey, but once in a while yo!l've got to say what th-e %*&$!f. Wu-uld S$0,00(1 be ()QU~gb. U,Qaey tg induce yo.- tu take .a loyal, healthy pet tu the vet be put to Sl!i\ep?·M.J. lt¢.\1 yeah! .. . ·•· . 1· fla\e SC\\Iltal qucstimts .pC:ttakitng to a geDtlcm.en•s wearing nf rings. Firhi, shuuld. a rhtg such as a conege ring be worn on tbe left t~r thil · right balidt See~nd; shnuld such a ring's <words ~iid dC'Sfgll be t'trll1wtud so that tttey ean be read by tbe wearer' w SOih'eone sittlllg >41pfH'ISU~ fiiiU?•T.C. There are ito f!\l.luS guvcmillg the hand on whidt a gentleman should wear a college dng. Weat it on the linger on which it feels most cood'ortable. l'formally. thi! desigtl is nwant to be seen by the wearer, rather than sOOteono sitting oppo-.site him. }{ow e~~ J ~onvlnc~ tny gtrlftiGnd, in a tactful an4 non.foreeful ~nannll:f\ iv perform perverse and t.tsteless sex11al acts?· B.S. I will asswn..c that you want Lhis s<Klalled ~irlfriend loperlonn these lude acts on yoo and Qflly you, rigbJ'l'the gol~n MA rule is ddinitely in effect fw these types {)( sitW~uons. Th~l b the Mooetary Alc~hol rule. When llll else fails. and you don't waitt to come right oLit and have your desires known, buy ller an Cli!penilfw g i.ft md then get her dtutik.. This clim inates the fear of having io ask hf}r while slie is ~>ohenmt and the. idea of giving her a gift makes her feel deep doWtt that she i)Wes yoo smMtlling in retum. Whatever you do though, make sure it is ·le11al in New YOik State or else you'll find yourself whft deeper trrublcs lflan just suppl~!ng alcohol to minors. Flll m.aklllg dhmtr fvr PlY boyfrhmd 'next Wi.lek . and want t~ serve :ll ~~t:tte c,f wh1e With the meal. 1't~U m(l, what. kln4 uf wine shfJillit I ser~e?.\ t teaJly kti~w itttl~ ab'O'ut f:he silbjed.* M .. B.. \=-\::;.; ____ ; _ The gene¥ai tu1e for winea, alth!J~&h this. doosn'talyJays ~Wlf:, is that~· n-.d wi!te ·fs' ilel:vt:\t w:iat me<M aij,d h.US:'iierftu~als, wmie wllim wines are reserved fot fbll and P<Jllltcy •. :trndtbcJ; of theSIMPiifkyour it!t¢mst, a ~dells a catch all and: can be ~Ned wtib Afiythirig, Y6ur ~t bet: would be to gt~t, if the situation calls forb,. a 19tH SQvingieon Blanc fr<>m California-or a 1984 Chardotlrla)! fl'<ltn Bot~. 'l'hese wet•e both ~~llent ywi and the wine b abund11.11t IU'ld ine!ltpe:n~ivc. Jun Uime:mber, unless. you:. are c~l'ebrating,- do not setve l.lhamt~tigtte wi.tb your mtlal. This alccllol should: be_ reserved for before dimer or ~uiHin'IIPtlttlf' a.tid ifwnitdib¢ !h~rlaste Q:;~.sertie it·ui hlble' wine. ; . ·.·• tl'~~'~lf ,~~e~t;, ~lith ~i'~p t'ns~ q~ji~Q~I)!f .~~lrtg! sports, lectures and fihns which Unian offers, time can also be spent exploring the library, Jackson's gardens or even Schenectady. While away from the stresses foWJd at Union it did enter my mind to abandon the tension I find at school and stay at the lake. However, I believe that we all have a responsibility to our society. We cannot abandon our peers and leave them with the :-esponsibilities. It is unfair for anyone to not contribute to Union. Contributions can be made through an immense amount of ways yet we all need to take pan. We can make a difference l We need to take control of our lives and work, for those who have-keep up the good work, and for those who need that little or big push-here it is! ··' ' f # ?w· >'\\''- ';. ' \ + Hersh and Robe ponuer the aesthetic value of the Pat1o's \finger foods.\ Out to Eat With Hersh and Robe lBy ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS The Patio This week we sought a good and inexpensive sandwich and appetizer type restaurant; we hoped the Patio Restaurant and Pub would be such a place. It offers a menu similar t() the Ground Round, with the ad- dition of pizza and several Italian dishes. Burgers and grill items are the mainstay of the menu, and there is a variety of \finger foods\ such as wings, nachos, and potato skins. Soups and salads are also among the choices at The Patio . Along with our guest Oscar, for appetizers we shared chicken sticks and nachos. I was going to try the chili, but our waitress warned that it was eKtremely hot. She offered to bring a small sample, but it never arrived. Our order of nachos was of average size, with plenty of tomato chunks and olives, though not enough meat for my taste. The cheese, which imparted a nice zing to the dish, had a pasty texture unlike that found on most nachos. The seven large chicken sticks came with a zesty barbeque sauce and some rather watery tomato sauce. Breaded and fried, the chicken was crispy on the outside and tasty. Oscar chose the Aspen, a large hamburger with mushrooms and sour cream on a toasted sesame-seed bun. After much predding, he told us that he enjoyed it and that it was \done right.\ Robe had the Sicilian, consisting of pastrami, bacon and melted mozzarella cheese on a large roll. The pastrami was very lean and he enjoyed the sandwich a great deal. Unfortunately, the ac- companying french fries, which looked thin and crispy, were actually thin and soggy. Senioritis After appetizers, the rest of my meal went downhill; my main course served long after Robe's and Oscar's. Our waitress explained that the chef had burnt it, and had to do it over. Even when my Barclay (a roast beef, peppers, onions, mushrooms and melted cheese sandwich) arrived, I was none too thrilled. The sandwich was somewhat greasy, and the cheese was not cheddar as the menu stated. It was clear that the french fries were rushed~ they were undercooked and thoroughly greasy. ByLEATAJACKSON Senioriti s is a column designed to bring together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of '88. - The last bloodmobile will be on campus today and tomorrow. - Please support the seriior class gift. Do you realize that we are the last class to remember painting the idol behind the library? Decisions, decisions, decisions. One of the more sobering aspects of senior year is making decisions that could affect a good part of the rest of our lives. The first question to deal with is graduate school or the world of work. Next question is where to go. Should we stay at home? Should we go to a big city? a small city? If we want to get a job, where? how to go about finding one? when to start looking, when to start the first day? what kind of job to look for? Nowadays, too, em- ployers like to see advanced degrees. So that means morE? decisions. Do we go ·at night'! Do we work a few years then go back to school? Where should we go? On the other hand., if graduate school is the thing to do right out of college, where is the money to come from? And grad school doesn't last forever. All of the pains and questioning about employment will have to be faced eventually. Sometimes, it seems the more options we have, the harder it is to make a decision. People deal with decision- making in different ways. You can ask Mom and Dad b11t if they are like mine, they say \That's nice, dear. What did you decide?\ Big help, right? Some people drink, some cry to their best friend, others just put off the decision until later. The CDC is a good place for in- formation. Your advisor may be able to help also. Perhaps a list of pros and cons would allow a logical decision to come to light. Whatever you do, don't panic. Everyone else is wonder-ing what to do too. Only 52 more days to e!ljoy going to the movies for only a buck. On the whole, the service at The Patio was shaky. Our waitress seemed a little distracted, and thanks to Oscar, we noticed that she had over- charged us several dollars. Although the Patio was a pleasant place to eat, we were bothered by a draft at our table. The restaurant also has a large nice looking bar. Based on our 1-10 point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave The Patio a 5 (which is average on our scale). Robe's experience was more enjoyable, and he rated it a 61r2. The Patio Restaurant and Pub 408 Rosa Road Schenectady, N.Y. 377-6754 All major credit cards ac- cepted. Price, for three, with tax before tip: $29.51. DID YOU KNOW THAT THERE IS NO LONGER AN ENVIRONMENTAL ALLIANCE AT UNION ? If interested in preserving the environment and getting involved on can1pus, come to an organizational meeting regarding a celbration of EARTH DAY. Join us today at 5:00 pm in the College Center. w co 0 a: 0 z <1: :r: (/] a: ~ a >- (/] '\-l 1-- ;J; c (.) ..., '-' ~ .- ':::: -·

Page 8 FEATURES surrounded presidential ·prima\y I thought that readers might eujoy learning a bit about New York State election law.· Some of the provisions in the law are quite mterestin.g and m~ come in handy t(ff those E.E.-coolttail party conversation dry· spells. For ex11:mplet Section ·IH104 provides tllat the·M.n~l'i~anJi!Mg must b~_kept dif\p1ayeq af ~ach polling place thrilu;gh&i:l<t the ... election (1 guess this is to remind those voters who might momentarily forget, that they're not voting in the Iranian national cl.ebti<.m.) ln additiOJ'h in the City, qf .New ¥: Ol\lt; :Qij•iR· primary ·e'l~etiQn$~ pollee officer:· for · ·· · TUNE IN TO 89.7 FM FOR THE: WRUC EDITORIAL MONDAY, WEDNESDAY ANOFRIDAY EVENINGS CONCORDIEI\'SIS, April 21, 1988 Are you aware ... e • Cotltmunication is a Difficult Task Do you ever have trouble speaking up in class? Is it hard sometimes to tell a roonunate friend or someone you are romantically involved with what yGu are thinking 01r felling? Do you find yourself agreeing to do things because you can't say m? Do you kee(:J your real feelings hidden t~>l avoid an argument'' Learning to mmmunicate our real feelings, both positive ana:! negative, is a difficult task. It's difficult becattse we are tauglllt from childhood not to hurt people's feelings. It's difficull.t because we don't want to \cause problems\ in relationships tilat are importa11t to us. It's difficult because many times w:e are not sure .of what our real feelings are, so ]t becomes imp()ssiole to e\press them. It's difficult becaus;e many of us feel that we don 't know enough or understatEd enough to have an opinioo. Expressing our thoughts a11d feelings is difficult because we d(m't do it very often and we don't know to do it effectively. Learning to communicate effectively and assertively does not mean learning to be aggressive, nor does it me.an always getting our way. What it does mean is expressing feelings in ways that are non- threatening, specific and beneficial to both eurselves and our relationships. How many times have you walked away from a situation thinking, \If I'd only this?\ The damage we do to ourselves by not learning to communicate effectively is both serious and unnecessary. Keeping feelings inside affects our work., our health, our relationships, and perhaps worst of all, our self-esteem and self-confidence. None of this is to say that honest and effective com· munication isn't risky. Any type of personal growth is risky .becau,se it changes who we are. Changing who we are ulHmately changes our relationships with others. However, developing the ability to be assertive in our relationships does not always mean choosing to act in !'In assertive manner. Having the skill, knowing. how and when to use it, and balancing our needs with the needs of others are aU key elements in .effective commtmication. Aw a:re will sponsor a presehtat ion by Maria L. · - Bottini entitled \Speal~ing Up: Expressing YOURSELF More Easily'' on Tuesday, April 26 8:00-9:30. Her presentation will be a lively, hmnorous look at some o.f the interpersonal \mix ups\ we get ourselves into, and tips for communicating more easily with friends and family. Aware hopes. you will take advantage of this unique opportun1ty. A Ride Down Memory Lane By R. HEED WHIDDEN News Editor For as !on:g as I can remember it has been there. I leave Richmond on my way to classes or to dinner and it is always there. It may move a few inches this way or a foot or S<J that way, but it is as faithful as man's best friend. A bicycle, through rain, snow, sunshine, ·· summer, winter, spdng and · fall, remains parked outside of Richmond. Old and wilted as it is, that two wheeler is a familiar comforting sight. I remember wondering to whom that bicycle did belong, and if they wollld ever come and get it. No one ever did. Its presence e~lways raises questions in my mind. Who abandoned tllat bicycle and why? Was it abaondoned llr simply forgotten? Who couJd forget a bicycle?. It is one ()f those bicycle a kid in fifth grade pines and whines for, the kind th~t ~~es the top of the blr- thday llst that year, that step up after training wheels. It's a red Columbia Sports II with three speeds and hand brakes. It's the same kind of bike I think every one in my neighborhood had way back when our biggest aspiration was learning how to master the art of riding a bike. It's that bike that raced down the street in the afternoons when school was out. It's that bike that every mother was afraid would cause the death of her child: It is the one she damns when her ten year old comes in with scraped up knees from a nasty spill caused by whizzing aroW1d a corner and hitting a patch of sand at the wrong moment. The other day my friend Kevin. and I were supposed to do lii lunch. I was rWllling late so ~ Kevin waited for me. To occupy 0 himself he browsed through an ··• ~·; ·~ old yearbook. The 1965 Garnet 1- was his interest at the moment '· . ~:· ~ and a particular page grabbed ~ his attention. Apparently there ~ had been an awful ice storm 5 that year. Everything as far as o the eye could see was slicked by o a sheer glaze of ice- tr:ees, cars, ~ sidewalkS, everything. Even- a.. someone's bicycle was covered , ~i~ .'r·:;· ¢ . . ' by the cold transparency. Kevin showed me the picture of the bicycle and it looked vaguely familiar. I thought, \Could it be? Could it be the bike outside Richmond? No. No, there's just no way that these two bicycles could be one in the same. No bike could withstand the elements for 23 years. But, it would be kind of neat to think the bike outside of Richmond is the •one in the yearbook. Perhaps it is.\ There it is, chained to the bike rack, waiting as if someone will come for it one day. The seat has long since disappeared, the fenders and wheels are bent, and rust is slowly eating away at the one constancy I have known at Union. I hope no one ever does take that bike away. For me, the bike is a symbol of Union. It is as natural in the view out my window as is the Nott, West College, the flag . pole, the grass and the trees. As one great mind put it once, \It fits~'. I will always remember it when I think of my days at Union and living in Richmond; And, I will always want to believe that it has passed the test of time, and. it is a 23-year- old fifth grader's bike. t i ·' . t ,. I I I 'I IJ 1 aJ tE w b1 st o! t< F. o: 0 p E r d b n 0 0 I ·1.' i: '! 1 i { l l I

rage 8 CONCORDJI~,'\'SIS, April 21, 1988 FEATURE.S Legal Brief By TINA SCIOCCHETTl With all of the hoopla that surrounded Tuesday's presidenti&l primary, I thollght that readers might en joy learning a bit about New Yc,rk State election law. Some ()f the ! p:·ovision!:i m tlll' taw are quite ! ~nLei.e~'t.jnt;.· and. m~Y, corn~ .. ill I rwnu,.- tor tho~e E E.-cocktail I p<.nt.l . t:vl.lv~rsatio. u .dr·y spells .. For example, Section S-104 provides ~hat the American flflg 1 must bt:: l~ept displayed at each polling plac~ throughout the election t 1 guess lhi:; is to , rt'In.ind those voters who might ·. nwmentarily fGrget, that they're not vuting in the lr~mian . 'lational eleQti-on.) In addition, · in the City of New York, d1,1ri.ng primary elections, at least one police officer must be assi~ned for duty . polling places throughout the elections. (You know hnw vi€Jlent those NY <::ity Bush supporters can get!} employee shall be allowed time of£ for voting only at the beginning or end of his-her shift unless otherwise mutually agreed upon by employer and 1 j emp oyee. ~ J.f the employee requires time r off for voting, he-she must ! notify the empbyer between t two · and ten working (bys before the dav of the delUor.. In addition, not less thar. ten working days before every election, every employer must post conspcuously i.n the work l plaee where it cmn be seen as 1 employees come or got to their f place of work, a 'flotice in- .~ forming employees of their , voting rights. Thls notice must •. ,:~·- .. •.· be kept posted until the close of the polls on election day. S<>~ let's see, the law allows you to get two p3yed hours to votce~ but you're Qnly allowed up to five minutes to do it. That adds up to one hour and fifty· five minutes of payed free time. Isn't America groot? ! ! Are you aware .. ~ . Cot111nunication is a Difficult Task Do vou ever have trouble speaking up m class'' b it hard sometimes to tell a roommate friend or someone you are rom ant tcally tnvoived with wtJa· \iiU an ttnnkmg or fellm•.:.,. l J(• ~ou fUJc! yourseH ~H!rN•:n~· \!• O•• t_rnm!s oecau!>•· .'·''L t·aJ.'' ~~\ n- · ! ),, ~ .. t: kPer v ttl;· ,,_,,,: lf_•eiln~~-. (~H~dei. ' ;~,:qH: ;{~ (i';t', tlTt)t: 1 !J' .l.earmm.: t• c·trllm!lmcatt.' our n·al i-:elmgs, both pn:;iu Vt' an 0 ncr~m!r_. ;;--; H diff!('u!t tasl~. 1: ·.- difficuit be<\aus we are lc-:ug!J• fn til· ehi!db1•o<i :we u · n ur~ peoni~·\ ieelings. I:':-; diffJcuh becaus(- WP liol'i · wan·. Lt· \cause problems\ 1r: relatlunshios that are I.ITloortan: tCI us. I{s difficult because man\' times we are not sure of what our real feelings are, so i~ becomes impossiole to express them. It's difficult because many of us feel that we don't know enough or understand enough to have an opinion. Expressing our thoughts and feelings is difficult because we don't do it very often and we don't know to do it effectively. Learning tc• communicaie effectively and assertively does not me<w learmng to be aggressn·'t' nu~· dues 1t me1:m always 2.t'tttng r>u; wa\·. W!1H: t: dot>:-; rLt'Cii l~ ;;:xp:-<•::,:;inl.' teelm!!~ tr: way.- u,a: ar•_· nl~r-­ . \•rf•a• \1'ini \>Pl'<'Iic anr) beneficial \1.: ix•tll .llllfSeive:; anu our relau(lm>llms. How man\ times ;,ave voti walked awa~. fron: a sit uauon thinking, . -i. I'd only this\\ The damage Wl: do to ourselves b~ no~ lt>armng t(! commw1icate effecuvel\· t.s both serious and wmecessan. Keepmg feelings inside affects our WLH\k our health, our relationships. and perhaps worst of all, our self-esteem and self-confidence. None of this is to say that honest and effective com- munication isn't risky. Any type of personal growth is risky because it changes who we are. Changing who we are ultimately changes our relationship~ with others. However, developing the ability to be assertive tn our relationships does not alway~ mean chousrng l\ act m ar assert!\'~· manne:· Hanng thl· skill, Knowrng illtW and when\(· ust t:. ann br-ua!tl'lii~ our need~ with the need:. of others are all key elemtnts ll' effectJVL' commwucation. Av.arc Wlll sponsor a presentation oy Mana L. Bottini emitl ed ··Speaking '(j p: Expressing )'OURSELF More Easily\ on Tuesday, April 2ii 8:00-9:30. Her presentation will be a lively, htunorous look at some of the interpersonal .. mix ups'' we get ourselves into, and tips for corrununicating more easily with friends and family. Aware hopes you will take advantage of this unique opportunity. For the indecisive voter who can often hold up llnes of im~ patiently w-aiting voters. SeeM tion 8-300 warns that no v-oter shall remain wl.thln the V()ting machine long>er than three minutes (lr a V()ting booth longer than five minutes. If the voter shall refuse t<l leave after the lapse of such time, he-she can get booted Gut by the inspectors present at the polls. And thanks to Section 8-132, we can all rest- assured that all voting lloatbs will be supplied with pencils having black lead only! This secti<~n alsc spares us from walking into a polling place and being gNeted by inspoct()rs sporting ~~up with hope, down with dope., buttons. No Oil* speetors or clerks are allcwed to wear any butt<>ns, badges, emblenu., ete. Gthe!i' than their designated proper iden- tifieati<l'n. A Ride Down Memory Lane I hope Y<lU didn't go to the polls on Tuesday expecting to get some last minute literature on candidates in order t() help you decide who to vote fc:lr. If you did,. :you were m.~bably . disappointed. New York State electi(ln law stipulates that wbile the pt~lls are open, no person shall do any elee- tioneeriag within the p()lling pJace, ()r in any public street Within a 100 ft. radial ·t>f the polling place entrance. In ad\ ditio:n} n(} political b,aJmer, button, poster or placard Vii.ll be allowed in or upon the polling place within the 100 ft. radial. So, it's best to- decide who you will vote f{)r before you .get to the polls. Finally,. it is importa11t that . every employee know Ws·her employer's legal obligation concerning elections.. If a registered vnter does n(}t have . four consecutive hours o;utside · of his-her working hoW's in . which to vote} he-she is allowed • by law to take off so much working time as will, when added to the employees' voting time oatside work, add up to foW' oours. The employee can do this without loss of pay for up By R. REED WHIDDEN News Editor For as long; as I can remember it has been there. I leave Richmond on my way to classes or to <ii.nner and it is always there. It may move a few inches this way or a foot or so that way, but it is as faithful as man's best friend. A bicycle, through rain, snow, sunshine, swnmer, winter, spring and fall, remains parked outside of Richmond. Old and wilted as it · to two hours. The fo'llt' con~ · s.eeutive b()urs have to be either between the Gpening of the polls and the beginning ()f the working shift, ur betw~en the end of the \V()tking Shift and the closing of tlte po~s. That ist the TUNE IN TO 89.7 FM FOR THE: WRUC EDITORIAL MONDA'Y, WEDNESDAY AND FRIDAY EVENINGS is, that two wheeler is a familiar comforting sight. I remember wondering to whom that bicycle did belong, and if they would ever come and get it. No one ever did. Its presence always raises questions in my mind. Who abandoned that bicycle and why? Was it abaondoned or simply forgotten? Who could forget a bicycle? It is one of those bicycle a kid in fifth grade pines and whines for, the kind th~t ~akes the top of the bir- ·~ t· f 4, .. ·~ ...... ~ thaay list that year, that step up after training wheels. It's a red Columbia Sports II with three speeds and hand brakes. It's the same kind of bike I think every one in my neighborhood had way back when our biggest aspiration was learning how to master the art of riding a bike. It's that bike that raced down the street in the afternoons when school was out. It's that bike that every mother was afraid would cause the death of her child. It is the one she damns when her ten year old comes in with scraped up knees from a nasty spill caused by whizzing around a corner and hitting a patch of sand at the wrong moment. The other day my friend Kevin and I were supposed to do tu lunch. I was running late so ~ Kevin waited for me. To occupy (3 himself he browsed through an w old yearbook. The 1965 Garnet i!: was his interest at the moment ~ and a particular page grabbed 1Ji his attention. Apparently there ·~ had been an awful ice storm :J that year. Everything as far as 8 the eye could see was slicked by a a sheer glaze of ice- trees, cars, ~ sidewalks, everything. Even- o.. someone's bicycle was covered --.<:~·, ;:. by the cold transparency. Kevin showed me the picture of the bicycle and it looked vaguely familiar. I thotlght, \Could it be? Could it be the bike outside Richmond? No. No, there's just no way that these two bicycles could be one in the same. No bike could withstand the elements for 23 years. But, it would be kind of neat to think the bike outside of Richmond is the one in the yearbook. Perhaps it is.\ There it is, chained to the bike rack, waiting as if someone will come for it one day. The seat has long since disappeared, the fenders and wheels are bent, and rust is slowly eating away at the one constancy I have known at Union. I hope no one ever does take that bike away. For me, the bike is a symbel of Union. It is as natural in the view out my window as is the Nott, West College, the flag pole, the grass and the trees. As one great mind put it once, \It fits\. I will always remember it when I think: of my days at Union and living in Richmond. And, I will always want to believe that it has passed the test of time, and it is a 23-year- old fifth grader's bike. - ~ a: w :.::: z C7i ~ >- OJ 0 f-- Q 0::: ~ I ! I }I 1: l] 1 ar te w bl st ol tc I:-l OJ ol p B r; d b n 0 0 I: r iJ v t iJ (] li I l

Page 9 INTERNAT.ION~L ·FEATURES The· Wo.rld . According to Moses By CONRAD TATGE! The following is ~n account of an experience from the Union term abroad in Barbados. It was not part of. the cmricuJ;wn but was pursued by a few Union students during spare time.- The most vivid pieture I have of Moses is from our approach to the camp for the second time. He had been attencUng to a fire on a _rook when he saw the five of us treking across the steep pastures of the East coast of Barbados. When l saw him; I raised mY arm in salutation. He did the same, and I was struck by the prehistoric imagery: a naked black man With a full set of dr,eadlocks standing up high on a rock with a fire at his feet. In the three minutes inook us td' reacn the camp, 1 can <:~nly imagine what JllY four friends were thinking. I had met Moses the week before and had been intrigued enough to return. They are Ras. Tafatians living on their own in the deserted, mountainaus East coast of Barbados.· Although t1wre were but five of them there when we went; as. many· as twelve claimed the land as their home. They are gatherers, growing all of their own food. Somewhat different than the Jamaican Rastas, they are not overly- aware of skin color as they had recently allowed a young white mart to enter their ranks. -Based on the fuUilbnent of the biblical prophesy relating Hailai Selasy's leadership of Ethiopia to an obscure biblical verse, they preach the word of the Lord. Their lifestyle is the pinnaCle of simplicity. They asoociate anything ofthe Earth as' being good and anything of thehands of men as evil. They are outwardly Urihappy with the state of affairs in our world and refuse to bring new children in until something is done to remedy the situation. The sanctuary (.see illustration) as they call their home is reached by a ten- minute footpath from the village of Boscobelle. The patl1 ends at the top of a steep hill which overlooks the r.ougll eastern Barbados coastline. From bere, no houses or people are visible. Almost none of the evil created by man interrupts their daily activity. Alarge rock provides the backbone for a wooden frame box whjch can only be described as Robinson Caruso-like. On the othet side of the rock is a lean-to type house with canvas artd plastic tar- paulinS across the top. At foot level is the opening to a small cave under the rock Which they sleep in. Also of interest was the \sanctuary room\ next to the lean-to. Here, branches with leaves provide just enough protection from the hot sun to allow a cool breeze to cire!.UatE. Enjoying the pleasant temp- erature and DnarveUling at their inspiring view, one quickly understands ti;leir choice of a living pl~ce. The rest of the Uving area is opepnpir. An impressive display of rock and pebble laYing provides a. hard surface with va-rious paths. -running aoout the floor. The center of the living· space is dominated by a l~rge cooking area built of larger and flatter rocks·. The stove allows a fire t() be built in the lower £ireplace area .as .pots are heated above. Across from the stove is a bench made. of large rocks upon which we sat. The Ra$ta.s spend tnost of their daytime tending t() planting, harvesting, cooking and building. They ,have a fUll her:b garden in · whi.ch th~y spend a lot of time. While we were there, we c(illected c;lose to fifty differept herbs for wl1i<lh Moses knew each herb's name and effect a:!! well as o.ur name for it They e:xperiment. with different herbs on themselves before recommending them to anyone else. Moses also pointed out that the herbs wer.e only effective in a \faith healing' contex:i. Prayer w;as also necessary for full recovery. They applaud the use of marijuana for its ,general physical be11efits as well as its ability to elevate one's thought process. The need to balance its use with otller herbs was also stressed. Wben called Upon, the Rastas will wear burlap clothes and set out into the rest of Barbados t() heal people with simple ailments. When asked about the thirty-five cent bu.s fare they explained that friends· were usually good enough te pay for them. One .humorous moment ·arose when a friend queried Mo~es to the benefits of a certain herb and Moses replied that it was a cure for AIDS. On both visits, I was served a dinner of bread.fruit and coconut. BreafrUit is a fruit somewhat like a green pum- pkin. lt has a thin, hard ,(and edible) outer shell with a bready white inside. The taste is quite good, aimost yeasty. It is eaten by dipping the fruit in a green hot sauce with same ferocity of a buffalo wing. Drinking water is discouraged during the meal as it kills the taste. Instead, the tops of gl'een coconuts are removed providing a natural cup for the coconut 'milk' within. The breadfruit is cooked for a couple of hours directly in the fire. other cooking utensils include pots made of a fruit shell and forks cut from coconut shards. For dessert we were given some tasty herb tea and the hard white coconut from the more mature shells. Most of ()ur time spent with Moses and his disc~ples was spent listening to Moses preach of his beliefs. He is about six feet tall and very tean and mus- cular. He has di'eadlocks past his shoulders from his scalp and beard. He told us he was more than forty years old, but looked about thirty. He speaks ISU TABLE Colleqe C&nter at 12:30 the native Bajan tongue which is English With a thick accent often putting emphasis on syllables which are · foreign to American&. He speaks very intelligibly with a broad vocabulary. He is charisn1atic which draws the listener in. In the eight to ten hours I spent with .him, l heard ,something close to the following on these sutijects: On Modem Medicines: The medicine sold . In stores are all bad chemicals - th~y will n<Jt help you. A man sllould be his own doctor. On Alcehol: Alcohol is bad for your church (body). Your chmch needs to be cleansed with proper food and Iife~yle. On Religion: We worship J ah. He is the same God that other religions worship. Marijuana opens up a path of communication with Jab. On Women: Won1en are to serve and please\~heir men. On the 'Sun: 1 can look into the Sun and gain power. On Sexual Relations.: I could not bring a child into this world in the state it is in now. Contraception is · not a natlll'al thing. I could never have sex with someone unless '( was hoping to have a child. Losing !!perrn is a weakness to a man. On The United States: America is a serious country. I have lived there (in New Jersey). On Technology: Cameras give off radiation which causes cancer. Bob Marley died from being photographed so much. Air conditioning is bad for you. Don't drink from plastic cups either. I made two visits to see Moses. The first was with a female friend and the second was with four other males. Only on the second v:isit ·were at- titudes toward won1en and seK revealed. However, theyspoke in hfgh regard of my female friend after her visit. Barbadian - women tend to be less educated and more subservient than . Ainerican women, and I think that this is what was impressing them. Features of their lifestyle which struck me were Moses' objectivity and empathy. He knew that we were college students plainly curious how 'the other half lives'. We had no intention of going native, n()r were we able to easily digest all of his preaching on anti- development. Instead; he provided us with a glimpse of a simpler, .more natural lifestyle which I don't think any of us will soon forget. At one point in the long af- ternoon, a 747 interrupted us across the beautiful blue sky. Moses paused to look up at the steel beast and .shook his head. I;ve never heard a louder air- plane than that day. Even- tually, we n1anaged to break away and leave our friendS on the mountain. Despite the pleadings of the new white guy .for us to remain there, we left ·Moses and bis disciples. Moses asked me if I would bring any of all of this back to the states. I told him that I would. Moses poses Moses' sanctuary :~~}::,:m[I:~:,~,Q··.,:·.~···~;;.E,E~::~:,,IN· ·,· ~: ,::<·i\··-J C ,-:·:·,···· ,_<'~<::-;:::; . w~·:·:·::· .-;:.~._::' ~·: . .;;:-, ;·'v~··: · ;.· • ~ \·''' , .. • ,· .,.,, , •· :.:::,:··:~~~RE\'':W'QR:t ,., .. ital,y ~:,(.c,Mt,,bomb' exploded~out?,jde a .USO club in Naples, kilt~ug .fwe 'JlOOPle a!ld- ~injuring ,at least 17 ~ Qn~ of_ the dead wa~ ~ US sailor, as were four of the wounded. Algeria ~ Hijackers of the Kuwait Airline jumbo jet 747 freed another hostage after resuming negotiations in Algeiia. An independent Kuwait newspaper ·said that one of the hijackers was responsible for the kidnapping in Lebanon of US journalist Terry Anderson·. Israel - Israe1i troops shot and killed three gun-men trying to_infiltrate from Lebanon, and an elderly Palestinian woman died after inhaling tear gas during a clash in the Gaza Strip. A UN doctor who worked in the West Bank said Israeli troops are using new type of ami-riot gases that are proving deadly and causing miscarriages. Panama .. · )j. US Marine sentry was killed when fellow Atne1ican. guards opened fire near the edge of Howard Ait'FO:tce BJiSe. , C,·Qip~'·•r ,Li .Pellt . .~~~l\~J: to counter the perception ·,,!that he. is mOlfe;.,e.auti:ous about refQrm than his \ S.S'f:Yt, Zh•;. .ayang. In his first n~ws .~ . · · · ~in~~. becoJl}in;g .pren1iert Li portrayed / ·himself-~li&Ma tecknocrat wtrose views reflect the e0)1sens\t$. ~~fcetrtrulleadership, a~d made tl'O new '.·: ~:· . . .. , . , .... , ..... .;\J1l~ttl~a· Stattts~ accepted a .. plan OiVlJ~t·st~rOOJ;Js~i·,t\ear§a<JJ· called the a~.tJila-et·· , :accepted>by the ·li):o 1 vret:s~ the Afghan government and German Film Monday, April 25 THE SNOB (1983, directed by Wolfgang from the play by Karl Sternheim, with Klaus Maria Brandauer, Heinz Bennent) A TV production of Sternheim's famous play set in 191 o Berlin with an all-star cast and top-flight production values.

1: CO,\'CON/Jli~SSIS, April 21, 1988 P.1gt: 9 ------------·-------------------------------~----------------------------------- INTERN A 1,IONAL FEATURES The World According to Moses By CONRAD TATGE The following is an accoWlt of an experience from the Union term abroad in Barbados. It was not part of the curriculum. but was pursued by a few Unio11 students during spare time.- The most vivid picture I have of Moses is from our approacl:l to the camp for the second time. He had been attending to a fire on a rock when he saw the five of us treking across the steep pastures of the East coast of Barbados. When I saw him, I raised my arm in salutation. He did the same, and 1 was struck by the prehistoric imagery: a naked black man with a full set of dreadlocks staHding up higb on a rock with a fire at his feet. In the three minutes it took us tcf reach the camp, I can only imagine what my four friend£ were thinking. I had met Moses the week before and had bee11 intrigued enough to return. They are Ras Tafarians living on their own in the deserte~, mountainous East coast ()£ Barbados. Although there were but five of them there when w~ went, as many as twelve claimed the land as their home. They are gatherers, growing all of their own food. Somewhat different than the Jamaican Rastas, they are not overly aware of skin color as they had recently allowed a young white man to enter their ranks. Based on the fulfillment of tile biblical prophesy relating Hailai Selasy's leadership of Ethiopia to an obscure biblical verse, they preach the word of the Lord. Their lifestyle is the pinnacle of simplicity. They associate anything of the Earth as being good and anything ()f the hands of men as evil. They are outwardly unhappy with the state of affairs in our world and refuse to bring new children in until something is done to remedy the situation. The sanctuary (see illustration) as they call their home is reached by a ten- minute footpath from tbe village of Boscobelle. The path ends at the top of a steep hiU which overlooks the rough eastern Barbados coastline. From here, no houses or people are visible. Almost none of the evil created by man interrupts their daily activity. A large ro-ck provides the backbone for a wooden frame box which can only be described as Robinson Caruso-like. On the other side of the rock is a lean-to type hollse with canvas and plastic tar- paulins across the top. At foot level is the opening to a small cave under the rock which tlley sleep in. Also of interest was the \sanctuary room\ nex:t to the lean-to. Here, branches with leaves provide just enough protection from the hot sun to allow a cool breeze to circulate. Enjoying the pleasant temp- erature and marvelling at their inspiring view, one quickly understands their choice of a living place. The rest of t:be living area is open-air. An impressive display of rock and pebble laying provides a hard surface with various paths running about the floor. The center of the living space is dominated by a large cooking area built of larger and flatter rocks. The stove aUows a fire to be built in the lower fireplace area as pots are heated above. Across from the stove is a bench made of large rocks upon which we sat. The Rastas spend most of their daytime tending to planting, harvesting, cooking and building. They have a full herb gardelil. in wfuich they spend a lot of time. While we were there, we collected close to fifty different herbs for which Moses knew each herb's name and effect as well as our name for it. They experiment with different herbs on themselves before recommending them to anyone else. Moses also pointed out that the herbs were only effective in a 'faith healing' context. Prayer was also necessary for full recovery. They applaud the use of marijuana for its general physical benefits as well as its ability to elevate one's thought process. The need to balance its use with other herbs was also stressed. When called upon, the Rastas will wear burlap clothes and set out into the rest of Barbados to heal people with simple ailments. When asked about the thirty-five cent bus fare they explained that friends were usually good enough to pay for them. One humorous moment arose when a friend queried Moses to the benefits of a certain herb and Moses replied that it was a cure for AIDS. On both visits, I was served a dinner of breadfruit and coconut. Breafruit is a fruit somewhat like a green pum- pkin. It has a thin, hard (and edible) outer shell with a bready white inside. The taste is quite good, almost yeasty. It is eaten by dipping the fruit in a green hot sauce with same ferocity of a buffalo wing. Drinking water is discouraged during the meal as it kills the taste. Instead, the tops of green coconuts are removed providing a natural cup for the coconut 'milk' within. The breadfruit is cooked for a couple of hours directly in the fire. other cooking utensils include pots made of a fruit shell and forks cut from coconut shards. For dessert we were given some tasty herb tea and th€ hard white coconut from the more mature shells. Most of our time spent with Moses and his disciples was spent listening to Moses preach of his beliefs. He is about six feet taU and very tean and mus- cular. He has dreadlocks past his shoulders from his scalp and beard. He told us he was more than forty years old but looked about thirty. He speaks ISU TABLE To Di.scuss 1nwrnatwna! W~end the native Bajan tongue which is English with a thick accent often putting emphasis on syllables which are foreign to Americans. He speaks very intelligibly with a broad vocabulary. He is charismatic which draws the listener in. In the eight to ten hours I spent with him, I heard something close to the following on these subjects: On Modern Medicines: The medicine sold in stores are all bad chemicals -they will not help you. A man should be his own doctor. · On Alcohol: Alcohol is bad for your church (body). Your church needs to be cleansed with proper food and life~yle. On Religion: We worship Jab. He is the same God that other religions worship. Marijuana opens up a path of communication with Jah. On Women: Women are to serve and please· their men. On the Sun: I can look into the Sun and gain power. On Sexual Relations: I could nat bring a child into this world in the state it is in now. Contraception is not a natural thing. I could never have sex: with someone unless I was hoping to have a child. Losing sperm is a weakness to a man. On The United States: America is a serious country. I have lived there (in New Jersey). On Technology: Cameras give off radiation which causes cancer. Bob Marley died from being photographed so much. Air conditioning is bad for you. Don't drink from plastic cups either. I made two visits to see Moses. The first was with a female friend and the second was with four other males. Only on the second visit were at- titudes toward women and sex revealed. However, they spoke in high regard of my female friend after her visit. Barbadian women tend to be less educated and more subservient than American women, and I think that this is what was impressing them. Features of their lifestyle which struck me were Moses' objectivity and empathy. He knew that we were college students plainly curious fiow 'the other half lives'. We had no intention of going native, nor were we able to easily digest all of his preaching on anti- development. Instead, he provided us with a glimpse of a simpler, more natural lifestyle which I don't think any of us will soon forget. At one point in the long af- ternoon, a 7 47 interrupted us across the beautiful blue sky. Moses paused ta look up at the steel beast and shook his head. I've never heard a louder air- plane than that day. Even· tually, we managed to break away and leave our friends on the mountain. Despite the pleadings of the new white guy for us to remain there, we left Moses and his disciples. Moses asked me if I would bring any of all of this back to the states. I told him that I would. Moses poses Moses' sanctuary THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCH Italy- A car bomb exploded outside a USO dub in Naples, killing five people and injuring at least 17. One of the dead was a US sailor, as were four of the wounded. Algeria- Hijackers of the Kuwait Airline jumbo jet 747 freed another hostage after resuming negotiations in Algeria. An independent Kuwait newspaper said that one of the hijackers was responsible for the kidnapping in Lebanon of US journalist Terry Anderson. Israel- Israeli .troops shot and killed three gurs:-men trying to infiltrute from Lebanon, and an etderly Palestinian woman died after inhaling tear gas durit1g a dash in the Gaza Strip. A UN doctor who worked in the West Bank said Israeli troops are using new type of anti-riot gases that arc proving deadly and causing miscarriages. Panama .. A US Marine sentry was killed when fellow American guards opened tlre near the edge of Howard Air Force Base. Cbina .. Li Peng sought to counter the perception that he is more cautious about reform than his predecessor) Zhao Ziyang. In his first news conference since becoming premier, Li portrayed himself as a technocrat whose views reflect the consensus of central leadership, and made no new policy statements. · Afghanistan .. The United States accepted [1. plan for withdrawal .of Soviet troops, Reagan called the agreement a \triumph.u The pact was accepted by the Americans, the Soviets, the Afghan government and Pakistan. (Source: Wall Street Journal 4/12-15.) German Film Monday, April 25 THE SNOB (1983, directed by Wolfgang from the play l!r kc1rl Sternheim, with Klaus Maria Brandauer, Heinz Bennenl: A TV production of Sternheim's famous play set m 1910 Berln Ailll an all-star cast and top-flight production values

Page 10 CONCORDIEiVSIS; April 21, 1988 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES z ~ a: IJJ 0 IJJ c.. Q a: 0 IJJ (.) z 5 -, >- OJ ·0 \~ Students in Greece; winter 1988 Greece: A 'Thavma' Time By JOHN CEDRIC PEDERSEN and PATRICIA HOUMIEL the time we had learned the eyes were an attraction for the streets and back streets of Greeks, not to mention her Kolonaki, our neighborhood, enthusiasm at tile Reggae A then's. crowdedness and conc.ert. Our first day in Greece pollution had been wearing us Besides all her burn-outs, seemed to be indicative of olll' down and we began to spread Patti will best be remembered ten week stay in Athens; a out. by the Greeks because of her terrible inconveneince we could On weekend field trips and tambourine lessons. all laugh at and enjoy, with individually-created excursions Cameron surprised ar- problems we never imagined to islands we discovered the chaeologists with her theories living through and the most real Greek life. Real Greek life abo11t Cycladic figurines. enriching experience we could lies outside of Athens in small Fi()na and Marc gave some possibly share. villages where Ouzo plays even interesting swimrrlirig lessons Most of us arrived on January a bigger role in socializing. on Crete. 12 after either flying into the Trips included sites dating J(}e trained for a waiter's job airport (notorious for its from 3,000 B.C. to the nineteenth at Kostas's. bombings) or after sailing into century~ . Among them were Scott uncovered the best Pat~as. ~n the. boat from Hell. Franchthi ~a~e, a 3000 B.C. Reggae bar in the city, while (B.rmdisi) to disco~er that trun cav~ dwell~g, Mycenae a!ld Phil our Diseo King seemed to drtvers were on strike. Some of Tyrms; Eptd.auros; Olympia, ' . . ' . us had to get. rides to our Greek the san~uary to Zeus~~ere the pr~!d tro~.?:J~~aTiyDn~~h~ the college offlc~ from ~reek Olympic games or1gmated? dress he bought. produce men, J~t happenmgto Delp~l, the temple to. Ap_ollo,_ Annette somehow managed to have trucks big enoug~ for Soumon, a temple to Posetdon, knock over the stove in heii group~ of confused Americans and.. a . Greek Orth9-dox: . .J.'t..:t. . : • .· , , • ,~ .. , \' .• • who Fl.rivefi'f ~rl:utiteteit l~ r. fnbnasfe'ry .~Osios Lucas, vJhtch .~ ~,...~ 1 - '?''en.\\' . ' .~~ 1 ~ f ' · , ~ · ~ ~ English language beyond, \You is still inhabited today. Sites KathyandRockylearned that are beautiful.\ It was an in- like these showed us the real bat-bashing in the Plaka was convenience that we, the Greek life of the past; whereas, fun at the time, butthe next day ingenious and (to the Greeks, small villages on the Greek: proved to be painful. rich) overcame. islands are typical of modern KTistine, with her ''Thavma\ After we were finally settled Greek culture. and \Po Po!\ taught Greek in our apartments-or our hotels On these islands-not only did children American profanities. as the case may be-some of us the Greeks entertain and in- discovered that heat and hot struct us but more accurately, water were limited, that we also did some entertaining of basement apartments are cold, our own, some that Greeks who and most disheartening, tl1at met us will never foraet. \convenience stores\ are not Melanie for insurance, was convenient and not on every hit at the Rainbow Club, a local corner and rarely open at that. piano bar, where after a What any wise American would ''thavma'' performance she do and what we were forced to treated herself to a bowl of do perhaps too frequently was Mozzarella cheese at For- laugh. So with our sense of tofino's. · hwnors at hand, we bravely set Kath seemed to be forth into the streets of Athens auditioning for a part as a to see how backwards and moving target in the streets of confusing Greece could be. Athens to make things even Athens is a maze. Findirig more confusing. class was our cheese, our Feta Jeff was caught asleep at the Without a doubt, Jon looked better without the earring. And J.P. became an unof- ficial of 32 Deinokra.tous. · In the midst of all our antics, however, we werE able to see Greek culture and ourselves at their finest. In· Athens, ~ throughout the countryside, and on the islands, we rim into a '~plethora\ of mishaps which allowed us to laugh and mostly to remember the idiosyncracie~ which are typically Greek:. b :r: c.. Go Watson· for A 'Wandetjahr' Prof. Doug Klein of the Economics Department has announced that the Spring informational meeting for juniors interested in applying for a Watson Travelling Fellowsliip will be on Monday, May 2 at 7:30pm in SS 112. Freshmen and sophomores interested in.applying in the futllte yeats are also welcome. While formal applications are n.ot due _until the beginning of Fall term, the time to begin is now. If you cannot attend the meeting, please contact .Prof .. Klein in SS 109. Th~ fellowship and the qua!ification? for winning are descnbcd by the Watson Foundation as. follows: The Thomas J. Watson Foundation in 1968 inaugrated a fellowship program whichenahles college graduates of unusual promise to engage in a year of independent study travel abroad following graduation. Administrered in cooperation with fifty-four outstanding private colleges and universities throughout the United States, the Watson Fellowship provides a grant of $13,000 to each recipient. Married Fellows who will be accompanied by and will support a spouse or dependent during their year abroad are eligible for a grant for $18,000. Thefoundation hopes to provide Fellows an opportunity for a focused and disciplined Wanderjallr of their own devising- time in which they might explore with thoroughness a particular .interest, test their aspirations and abiliti13s, view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and con-comitantly, develop a more infonried sense ·of international concern. In the selection of Watson Fellows, we are most conc.er,ned with such qualities as integrity, intelligence, the capacity for leadership and potential for creative achievement and excellence within a chose field. A candidate's academic importance, ls considered together with .those extracurricular activities which reflect both initiative and a commitment to his or her particular area of interest. The candidate's proposed project is especially important. It should involve investigation. in to an area of demQnstrated concern and personal commitment. Furthermore, because the year's experience should not involve extended formal study at _f.qrej~n .!fnir:~.~~it)J 1 t~,l}, P.r.f!iect sholfl-4 :~§. J21Jf/ ·wb~c}% may (b:e pursued with great.indepemience and adaptability.: In short, the project· should be imaginative, feasible, and personally significant. All Fellows are required to maintain contact with the Foundation during their period abroad. In addltion.to quarterly progress reports, they must submit a final evaluation of their Fellowship year and an accouting of.the Fellowship funds. All graduating seniors at participating institutions - regardle.ss of sex, age, race, nationality, wulergraduate program, or previous foreign experience- are eUgiQ.le for conSi(ferq_t~on · . by their institurionjor nOmination: · . . ·· . . · · · · Write for International Features Call: Jeanne -4232. Nicolas -6826 so to speak, and while some of bars of more than one disco. us arrived late to them because Christin became known as the we lived twenty minutes away,- tsatsiki queen with a toothpick others were late because in her nose. hairdryers and curling irons Oksana entertained the don't stay plugged in foreign Greeks on the dance floor of a outlets, and a few simply Bazooki. couldn't find where we inet. Rich was seen smoking super (Cameron learned that in cigarettes whUe workirfg on his Greece, one does not throw ideas for the purpose of Am~tel rocks at the window when one is labels. GUARANTEED INANBING t QJ)ALIFIED BUYERS!~* late and the door is locked.) By Kirsten's blond hair and blue MINIMAL . FROM FORD TO ASSIST WITH YOUR DOWN PAYMENT. ISU PRESENTS: SPEAKEH.S: • H.cvcrcnd Donna l·Ieinhard on Uangladcsa, India and Nepal • Prof. Martin On Peace In The World SUNDAY, APRIL 24th 3:0,0 pm CC Auditorium GIV·E YOURSELF A NEW FQR.D FOR GRADUATION. YOU WORKED HARD·, YOU DES,ERVE IT! • With Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DETAILS: 199 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, NY 12206 489-5414 ]

.. CONCORDIENSIS, A,pril 21, 1988 Page 11 Ro.ughing· It ''American S 1 tyle '' Prelllier.tour: le • duel a trois • % 45L---~----------~~--~-- By LEE ANN SCHMII)T Orientation at Union is ..J:hallenging enough for st11deilts who have had· almost t~eilty years to learn about tibe: Ameri<:an language, cli.ltmce, and educational system; imagine how di(ficult it is .f.or foreign students who don't llarve this experience. What additional concer11s do foreign students face? Stlld~eots expressed that it can bediffrrcillt · to \a<ljust to the Amevic;an cultu:re'' especially relatin~ to personal friendships and t:be · social life ''American styl-E. \ In many foreign high .s¢1lo1Jls students are riot given the course electiVes and som-E fLnd it hard \to choose comses ~sa -freshman.\ The probl~rn in- volved with ''urtderstartdill_~ .l:he adfniliistrative details,\ slich as completing forms at registration, are aLiso frustrating. There are more thaT JQO foreign students at Uni()11 llnd with the recent expansion. o:fthe exchange programs with ~hina and the u .S.S.R. this nwn!Fel:' is increasing. Union prides Lts;elf on ·having large and succe:s:;ful foreign exchange program-s ;an_d it is important to our s·cbo·oh to encourage cultural di:vEc-sity. Yet, despite the fact ·tllat students, as well as faculir and staff members, have ex- pressed the need for a t:Jilined expert who would fulfill tf:le! t\Ole of ''International Advisor'' the College still has not filled this .position. ~- _ . Currently,. the role. ,of. m- terrtational advisor falls. under the job description of Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies W .J.. Daniels, (along with numerous other time con- suming jobs). Several In· terested faculty members have also devoted time to in· ternational students as advisors to the International Student Onion. The I.S.U Is primarily a student club which plans ac- tiVities to bring the foreign students tog~ther a11d promote international awareness throughout the c()mmtlility. The International House in Webster Is another organization which has been beneficial to in- ternational students, as well as the Campus C()IDmlinity, by providb1g an important area.for cultural gathering. Yet, none· of these organizations provide enough .support for international students. They need someone who is readily availqble to . explain the administrative forms, course selection, and can help them adjust to Am~rican culture (and ID()re specifically to Union clll.ture }. Fur- thermore, an advisor could help organize . events -which would benefit the entire college. The Administration recogniz~s the need for an international ad-- visor, but their search has been A Chinese Storyteller Hits Campus Thjs Cotning Tuesday By PROFESSOR Blt11~E REYNOLDS Students who : pass Lillrary Plaza on their way bact from · class next Tuesday raO<ming will e11counter .something more than the usual mixtwe. of frisbees and - fundrat:sers: they'll be able to .pa~e! . and enjoy the. unique .Chinesil! E?lk- art of streetSide storytellmg~ Starting at roughly 10:~01, Mr. Jin SbeJ1gbo will be presedillg a com binatio'l lecture·de!mon- stration to the camptu! eom- munity. , · Mr. -Jin will stop at Onlom in the raid.dle of a tbreerniQnth tour which is taking hira to more ·tban twenty U;S .. cam- puses, including Collg~t~, Oberlin and Harvard. :14r .• Jm s visit to America along ...vitb bis son Jin Shaobo (aLso: a storyteller), was arrang;eirl by Prof. Susan :alader who tamght Chinese at Union in the 1970s· before moving to her pr~sent position at Dartml)uth College .. Of Mr. Jin~s. performance; Prof.. Blader ~ays, \He can move every inch -of .his face in whatever direction. be choases to; I have witnessed displays of this talent many times. He is, in short, a stl10ning performer, and. even those _who do not understand Suz.bo11 dialect are swept away by his artistry.'' Mr. Jin also has a keen theoretical understanding of hls art, and explains brilliantly why he tells his stories in a certain way. His demonstration will be followed by a !ectllre-workshop on storytelling. This vjsit to Union is · spl)n- sored by the Departments of Arts, History and English,. and is being • arranged by Prof. Bruce Reynolds. Jn case of rain, the event will move inside the lAbrary. · J.:UNIORS - WIN A WATSON AND SEE T:HE WORLD lnformatlo.nal MeetJng: Monda~ May 2, 1988 112 Social Sciences Buifding 7:30p.m. Don't Fo1.get The Spring Term BLOOD DRIVE Today &1: Tornorrow in Fox · Lounge :~ . ,~· 11 am .to S:30 .. pm · &ilve A it:.ft. O•:f 'fh~.,~~il~t·tf· , .. _,_;,,~ ,: stunted by problems such as diverging opinions on what type of position should· be created . Some would suggest, for example, that it should be an administrative post in the Dean of Students Office which could also encompass the work of the term abroad. office, while others believe a trained Resident Advisor for the International House is the answer. The issue has seemed tp reach a stalemate. Next fall Dean Daniels will be with Union students in Japan and the international students will be left without even an offical advisor. Time is running short. The first step is to establish a policy which will determine what the students' needs are and how they can best be fulfilled. The process of building such a policy was one of the topics discussed at a recent con• .ference of the National Association of Foreign Student Affairs (N.A.F.S.A.). Marika Baksay, the Assistant in the Terms Abroad Office, attended this conference and brought back several ideas on where to start. N.A.F.S.A. suggest bringing in a consultant service for a professional outside view of what policy would be best for the College. If the College is, as it should be, committed to enhancing cultural exchange and en- couraging diversity, this is a .good place to start. International lssu'e's By AIME:SIMON Who do you fav()r in the French presidential elections of May 1988? Why? What do you .predict as the outcome? Prl)f. Thomas - Mitterand, because he is the: best for France. I don't like Chirac due to his flirtations with the ex- treme right. Barre is a good manager, but he is lll() vision. I feel that Mitter and will win in the second round. Charles Boch ( 1988) - I would favor Barre. He is' the best economist among the can- didates. He's an honest person. Right now f.r_ance needs a go.od economist becallSe of the m- . tegration into tile EEC in 1992. I . think that Mitterand will win, although Chirac has a slight chance. Prof. Day · Mitterand will win, and that is fine with me. I'm vaguely sympathetic with his socialist views. He's tried to break down a stultifying bureaucracy that has been in existence in France for decades. Natalie Rambault - I prefer Barre since he is a good economist. l believe that Chi rae will win because he has the advantage of having been the Prime Minister for the last few years. Prof. Cbris Laursen- I favor Mitterand because he reminds me of my uncle. Further, I feel that Mitterland will win. L.ANGUAG·E TABLES: .. -· ' 'MON-DAY: FRENCH TUESDAY:lTALIAN WEDNESDAY: GERM.AN SPANISH FRIDAY: RUSSIAN Meet in the College Center Dining Roon1 at 12:30 p.m. (Russian Starts at 12:45 p.~n.) .... \ APRIL .l.l-24 F'fiday, April 22: ·Travel With The lS:U; No Visa Rcq11ircd •.. . ~.:'. Brief presentations onthe cultures, Ltaditions.and pollc1-:s of: Fr;tnce, Puerto Rico, Greece. Sweden and Cllma. food anJ Refreshments wHl follow. College Center 410, 7:00PM. ' - -· ~ Sat\·rday April 23: Bringing The W()rld To U·Intertutional Cabar~t. .\ Music, Dances, Ttilditional Fashion Show, (htncdy und l\ 1uch More!!! Old Chapel; 8:00 P~. Attentlance is free ,j CIJatg'B -. • • ' ' ~-~. ' • . ' ,., f. '. • . . .. . . . . . .. .. '

Page 12 COKCORIJI t:xs J,o,;, · April· 21, 1988 -------Founded al llnian College 1877 --------- Stop Passing 'The Buck ln last week's issue of Concordiensis and this issue as weH, many letters appear from students defending themselves and their organizations from accusations of sexism. While we respect any feelings of anger at being unjustly portrayed, and the right to defend oneself in the public eye,. it is interesting that the debate of current campus interests has bccom,c one over the ro]e of fratcrn.ities, rather t.han the larger, more widely relovant issue of prejullicc, speci fica II y scx.isrn. The problct n of sexism is a larger issue than we have given it credit. It concerns more people than fraternity 1ncmbcrs, sorority members, or even Union students in general. We are doing the issue anc.l ourselves an injustice by reducing it to such narrow attacks and defenses. Like the pornography debate, we arc overlooking four important ideas: The important social issue, the campuses acceptance of it, its manifestations and implications, ~md our responsibilities to resolve it. Must every social issue raised be confined to our own minute campus and its immediate activities'? Is a complex idea and issue that deserves our attention, regardless of whether it appears in fratcmities, sororities, academics, attitudes, the administration or elsewhere. We admit that sexism exists on this campus and yet seck only to defend our immediate selves. This is a small campus, and is merely an extension of our individual beliefs. If sexism truly docs cxi st, thet1 none of us has a defense. If we arc too apathetic to deal with it, and instead preoccupy ourselves with passing the buck, we all inevitably look bad. On a campus this small, the buck can't go very far. The important issue at hand is not who is blaming whom for what, nor is it the pros and cons of Greek life - the issue is sexism. It is worthy and deserving of our full intellectual attention and consideration. A Clarification We regret that the last week's Top Ten list offended any member of the college campus. The attention Gf the Top Ten· list, as is much of the journalism in this paper, is to provide cntertaimnent and is not intended to be malicious in any way. We hope that the attention generated by the Top Ten list carries over to other issues more pertinent to the welfare of the college community and our nation as a whole. Concordiensis is a student run newspaper, published every Thursday. and funded by the student body. The general content, direction, board and staff of the paper are managed by the Editors-ln-Ch.icf. The paper is independent of the administration and trustees of the Union .College. Its purpose is to serve the college community with affirmative as well as entertaining journalism and provide a medium for the community through which to express their opinions in the form of letters to the editor and commentaries. Cone ord icnsis asks that in the future any (omplaints cnncerning the content of the paper he directed to the editors through the forms of ktters or p.:-rsonal staten\ents during office hours. LETTERS Racist Jokes Offensive To the Editor: groups. organization, the College should take responsibility for the Comedian's .offensive co~ents. ln the future, the college ought to inform per- fanners that not only are racial joke:s insulting, but they also promote prejudice and should be omitted from the Comedian'S material while at Union. The Speakers 'Forum usually This .past Friday I attended does an excellent job bringing the Comediaas' perf()l'ltl<mce in speakers and comedians to the the College Center. Unfor- campus. I am sure that they dj.d tWlately, what coulcl have been not anticipate that the an enjoyable evening was Comedians' performance would hindered by the uncalled for be so· appalling. However, racist jokes and comments that Union College should .try to two out of the three Comedians decrease the amount of .racial made. In ord~t for a comedian and ethnic prejudice on earn- to be funny, be or sbe does not'· pus. Because these Comedians have to rnalte fun l()f minority were sponsored by a campus Sincerely, Marjorie Hoffer '88 CPR Training Beneficial to All · To the Editor: remark in print or in a personal letter. I encourage students to review the letter in question and to consider the definition of I am very 5()rry if the student initiators. of the Umion College Emergency Medi(lal Service · felt sl~ndeFed by the lettf;lr to the editor printed two weeks ago in ConcordiellSis ( CXVII, 19) regarding the benefits of initiating a campus-wide training pmgram in CPR (Basic. Life Supp<irt) over that of establishing ~ cM!lpus rescue unit. I am responsible for this letter, and 1 1 woul<l like to thank Darrin and Dave for giving us all an explanation of their en- deavors to improve emergency medical care on eampus. This information should have been disseminated some time before (Concordiensis CXVII, 20 ). - .slander from Web_ster' $ 9th New Collegiate Dictionary: · maintain a r~scue squad. The need .is simply not there con- sidering our size and the nearness of S.chenecta<ly rescue units. Again, as a volunteer in- structor for the American Eed Cross .Safety Serv'ices, 1 see dramatic benefits from directing our .. energies toward CPR certification for all Students and faculty (Con- cordiensis GXVII 1 19}. Fur- thermore, these benefits may be realized With relatively small fiscal outlays, and they may indirectly save a number of our lives. However, I wollld never in- tentionally pen a slanderous \The ·utterance of false charges or misrepreseutations which defame and damage another's reputation.'' The views I have previously presented are not Slander, and it disturbs me tQ think that they may have been perceived that way. · Union College ·pays Schenectady County taxes to provide Emergency Medical Services such as Paramedic and other Basic Life Support Units. The College Should not be· forced into substantial fiscal outlays to establish, certify, and Yours in safety, ·rom Christopher American Red Cross Safety Services Instructor Gen. Ed. Provides Healthy Balanc~ To the Editor: The General Education Board's curriculwn carefully Concordiensis' .editorial of balances a number of pairs of Apri115 (''Enlighten Us\) gives elements: ( 1) the different me a good opportunity to offer a values inherent in the original few thoughts on the new proposals offered by the AAC curriculwn prop-osed by the and the CAC, (2) Union's General Education Board. traditions within and society's The umler.lying goal of the needs without, (3) freedom of Board's- CIJITicilli1Ii:t is simpiy ' 'choice and constraint lo'ch'oase,' this: to add substantially to the and (4) depth of learning and knowledge carried forth by breadth of learning. program of writing across the curriculum--not only merits acceptance as the right and reasonable distillate of four years of discussion; it also deserves our enthusiastic support as the framework for Union's General Education program in the 1990's:.· ~ ... ' ' ~ . : ~ . . . each Uni()n gradllating class. In my view, the proposed Starting with the class of 1993, model-in combination with a Sincerely yours, Anton Warde Director, General Education Associate Professor of German students will leave with at least the beginnings ()f . a coherent understanlliing of the Western tradition, gained through the associated study of history, literatllre, and civilization. They willllave acquired a basic knowledge of th!e language of science {mathematics), and they will have had the firsthand · experienc:!e ()f conducting inquiry within tbe natural and applied sc:iences. They will have been i11troduced to the social or behavior ~1 sciences. In the context of having been required to gain knowle!lge outside the area of tlleir major, many more students than now do so will have !!bosen to pursue knowledge of a foreign cultl.ll\e in some depth, wllether through study abr-oad, study of a foreign language~ or study of non- Western (!ultures. These aims have their origin squarely witbi:n the . c()llege itself, reflecting the values most favored by the FacUlty in the AAC's ·sm-vey ;of their views; but they also ha.ppen -to address concerns expressed on the · national level,. e.g., in the Bennett Rep()rt on Higher Education andthe Report of the President's Commission on Foreign Languages and International Stlldies. To meet its aims with ef- ficiency (to botTow a word from Concordiensis), tbe proposed program will foster students' self-motivation by presenting them mth optitOns from Which, with proper a!lvising,. they will select their own most ap- . propriate route through the : requirement. Aild the program will keep most courses rooted in established dlsciplines, thus honorillg.a stromg Uaion College traditioll and taldng advantage of the strengtbls that reside in these disciplilles. Editors•in-Chicf News Editor Associate News Editors Features Editors - . Christine Hong, Fiona Shukri R. Reed Whidd..:n Elise Foody, Daniel Kenil)' I\Iark H..1ughton, l\Iarjoric Hoffer, Susan Shatfcr International Features Editors Aimc Simon, Gary Stcinbaum Associate International Fcutur..:s Editors Nicolas Boch, Jeanne Daley Commentary Page Editors Lori Leon; Jason Mcslmick Arts Editors Katie Boyd, Jan Goldstein, Jim MacLaughlin Science Editor Anthony Efstahios Vrondissis Campus p·<.i):;C Editors Lisa Marzilli, Kelley Park · Sports Editors Andrew. Miller. Dave Morrison Photograpl1y Editur Susan Kersch Advertising Editors Lisa Brown, Lori Kaplan Associate J\dvcrtising Editors Leslie Mon·is, Liz Perkowski, Business .1\lanagcrs Subscriptions 1\!an:tgers Honorary Faculty Advisor Bc:h Tumey Beth Good smith, Robin Jacobson Brad 1\ton~lscllCin, Karen Simons c. William Huntley STAFF: Ken Bcrlack, EliztLb<.:Lh Berliner, Bill Boyd, Anthiklia Cara~savas, Lisa Ch~rand~. ·Toh1 Christopher, Joe Corrigan, Alan DcSalvio, Rob Dougc, Carl Frtcdrich, Adam Gahtan, Alex Gardner, Greg Godz, Dave Gulliver, Paincla Habet', .Bruce H:.w. Jr., Marty Heck, Andrew Hcrscha[t, Debra Honig, LcAta Jackson, Stephanie Jaryna, D:tvid K. Judelsolm, Stlsan Kannel, Becky Kooprrum, Jennifer Kovc, Ho1vic Lazar., Virginic Mclio, Christoph Mcrk, T<my Morot\c, Cynthi<t Pnilta:.:is, Gary Pastizzo, Tracey Ptyluck, Bill Robbins;. LccAnn Schmidt, Timt Sl'iocchclli, Shelley Szyrnko, Cara Taback, Conrad Tat,gc, Mmk Zimmerman t•HOTOGRAPHERS: Greg Chronowski, Todd Cocorikis, Richard Crocker, Fred Fitzgerald, Amy Goldstein, Amin .Kahn;_StanKitzinger, Gary Lambert, Steve Litzswan, luis Lynch, KateNutmn ADVERTISING StAFF: Michell~ Alfano, Robin Baskin, Jill Deutsch, Lauren Fcuctman, KlJthy Greene, Dina Golas, Una Leung, Martin~ Moore · · CONCORI)[E]\;SIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York l230S;·Publications Office; Susquehanna Publicat:iort, Inc., Box 388, Sidney. New York 13838 (607) 563,-8339. Subscription rate: $24 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Concordlensls subscribes to the .. Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (518) 370~6155._ .

{' .... , •. CONCO'RDIENS18, · Ajuif 'Z I, 1988 re~ge 13 Carnegie: Not an Advocate of Higher Education To the Editor.:. ',fhere ~eerns to be a move afoot to restore the name Carnegie to the College Center. Evidently Carnegie or his heirs gave some money to the College to help erect the building. Orgfnally the building was for the Civil Engineering Depart- ment, which occupied all but , what is now the tltird floor. Carnegie also gave money to the College to make the Nott Memorial into a library. When I was a freshman in 1941 the building was called the Civil Engineering Building. When mechanical engineering was offered it became the General Engineering Building. Not until about 197.0 was ·it called Carnegie Hall, and we - assumed that this was: because engineering no longer occupied the building . and President Martin wanted to change the names of all our buildings to those of men. (I don't think any are named after a women). Chemistry became Butterfiled, Electrical Engineering became Steinmetz:, and the dorll1i.tories were named after past pr.esidents of Union. Andrew Carnegie was hardly the most lovable of men. He ran some of the worst sweat shQps in America in the late 19th century as he assumed in- credible wealth ($2G in 1900 dollars in the steei industry). (By the way 'G' means 1 giga', or a billion in la:Yman's terms. I'm trying to push the SI units.). Not .being a college graduate himself, he had a particular loathing for col:leges, univer- sitiesand their graduates. At sometime in his mid .. fifties he eventually had feelings of guilt about the mmiey he ac- cumulated.fromthe sweat of his employees. It is as if he wanted to at()ne for his ruthless (but legal) actions of the past. llating colleges, he decided to build libraries. He built them everywhere, in the big cities and in the small towris. He wrote in tbe North American Re\iew in 1889 .(age 54). that ''The man who dies ... rich dies disgraced.\ He had made similar statements earlier in his life: \Amassing wealth is one of the worst species of idolatzy,\ he is credited as saying when he was 33. One can asstliDe that he was an atheist. He did manage to get 11id of $0.35G before he died, but that was only about 16% of what he _ha(l. I guess he must have died disgraced. He finally did give money to higher education. but only after he reacheq the age of 65. And then it was to establish The Carnegie Institution of Technology, hardly a liberal arts institution. My guess is that the money he gave Union for the College was to use it for engineering. So why would you want to name a building after a robber baron who hated higher education, especially tne liberal arts·; after one .who was trying desperately to undo the evil he inflicted on others? Why in- deed! But frankly, I would just as soon have the name returned to that hallowed hall. Why? Because many years ago when the day care center was trying to raise money I was asked to perform there:. I played my trumpet and the piano several times in the Cabaret. You cap.not appreciate the humor in this if you ha:ve never been fortunate ·enough to hear me play: I can always boast that I have performed in Carnegie Hall! E.J. Craig Electrical Engineering The Security and Safety Depa·rtment receives calls concerning the safety of students who sit on the roof tops of prJvate and college owned fraternity houses. While it is understandable that warm weather encourages sun bathing, the concern is that students are risking physical injurya Many times after parties the roof tops become the scene of push,ing and general, 'horslng aroti.hd. In- the· past, students.- have fallen sustaining serious physical :injury. Private fraternities could inCllf_ civil liability should a person fall from their building. Private fraternities,. (under terms of their contract or lease with Union College) will bear the liability for any injuries Qr fatalities which may result from accidents due to the practice of roof sitting. The Security and Safety Department is authorized to issue ,fines to, students and/or organizations who ignore. this long ·standing College policy. In the int:e,rest of campus safety we request your cooperation in avoiding the use of roof tops. Any quesUons may be directed to the Director of Security and Safety~ LETTERS Realistic. Ratio11ale T th Edit acknowledge that violence does o . e · or: exist and 2. discounting any I woLild like to re~pond to connection between the two three of the articles that were phenomena of all male societies • offered last week by proponents and sexist attitudes. of the fraternity system at True, the popularity of the · Union College. I leave off fraternities is., as Blatt says, responding to the letter by \proved by (good attendance ! Patrick DiCerbo since it is a at) Parties;\ however, the feckless personal attack on legitimacy of having in- Prof. Davis (alluding to him as stitutions which undeniably a ''dime store phil()sopher'' and have been the setting for Violent claiming his .April 7th' letter if acts against women (it doesn't full of \shallow neutered, and matter how many) on an often invalid. propositions\ academic campus is not proven withoutonce evidencing how he by popularity. reached his conclusions or, The historical survey ·.of even, what ·neutered' fraternities in America offered proposition might be) and, so, by Robert Wilder places male does not deserve a reply. societies {league of Whig •--~ · voters) and female societies lVlarc Blatt suggests that \the (Knitting club) side by side to vast majority of females on illustrate that fraternities are a this campus feel comfortable in right bestowed to the citizens of a fraternity\ and offers as America and docwnented in the \proof\ of this \any .given constitution as the right to frate.rnal social gathering\ peaceably assemble. seeming to ignore those specific No doubt, Wilder is speaking instances of a fraternal social truthfully when he cites the gathering that resulted in date many community services that rape and gang rape. Blatt says fraternities perform. H()wever, further that for those in- to say that fraternities- dividuals who feel vulnerable in sororities are \sources of the late night fraternity setting diverse social interaction open are egregiously mistaken. to all without discrimination,\ ~espite the very. reality. of is 1 believe absolutely violent act~ connmtted agamst. ridiculous. As he says in the last women (Without consequence) line of his article, they do that occ_urred and, fo~ lack ?f -provide \all the free beer you any .senous undertakmg, Will can drink on a Friday and c?nt1!1ue to occur. Blatt Saturday night,\ but it takes a d.Is_mlsses th~se fears ~s great effort of self-delusion to r~diculous p~ob1as-he s~ys-. a imagine that beer-pong, pool, sign .of their ('Yomen s~, m- foos ball, and loud music secunty and nothmg else. provide anything but .(albeit It is really amazing that the drunken and sometimes only violence against women pleasan~) . monoton1--a!ld that Blatt acknowledges is hardly diverse soCial m- \occasional isolated incidents\ teraction.\ · of \chauvinistic remarks.\ Secondly, in my experience, While this is contestable in its very, very few minorities at- own right, I eil1phasize · here tend these par,ties despite their that Blatt evidently believes pledge pohcy of non- that Prof. Davis' letter was discrimination. I explain this wrong-headed because 1. it is phenomenon as.~ result of the written from an outsider's point fact that fratermtles are larg~ly of view and 2. it is homogeneous groups wtth \preposterous to claim that share~ socio-econorni.c sexism and. the •fraternity assocations rather than, as If culture' are intertwined.\ It often claimed, shared \in- seems that Blatt, himself, terests.\ discredits anything he has to ~s in the letter. from Blat~, I say towards the issue by 1. am very surprised to fmd exhibiting a staunch refusal to Continued on page 14 (jet2L C{ue reacf Concordiensis 'l{fws · f4na{ysis page .2 .91_({ are we{come to attentf an open meeting of tlie (jenera{ ~ducation 'Board in !/(9om 410 of tlie Co[[ege Center, j'ritfay, .9f_pri£22ntf at 3:30pm, to- discuss witfi tfie SPRING BIO-SEMINAR SCIIEDULE Goard its purposed curricu{um. April 27 May 4 May 11 May 18\' May 25 Dr. John Uoyer, Union College \Stl)chasth: Models. of Niche Displacement With l'l'l!dator Satiatiun\ Stutlen t Sen1il1ars (Report on Second National Conference on Und.£rgraduat.: Rcan:h) Dr. Jo Ann Rendt!r, Hamilt<m College \f>()lar Lobes and Eq11al Clca\·age In Mud Snail Embryos\ HOST: B.Bo)cr Dr. David R. Rockewell, Ellis Hospital \Tile Biology and Epidemiology of Human lmmunodeficicn(-~ (.\IllS! \ in1'.'' HOST: K. Williams Dawn Tamarkin, University of Arizona (fiUc to be announced) HOST: R. Olbcrg S~MI:'\ARS AT 4:30 IS UAILE\' lfJ8 Rl~I~RESH:\-tENTS AT 4:15 *Dr. Rockwell's seminar in Butterfield 204

Page 14 LETTERS Sorority Sister Urges Public to Pinpoint Problem To the Editor: Though ·encouraged by student participation in last week's editorials, I couldn't help but feel that as a a part of the Greek Society, I bad something t~ say about the recent Frate mal uproar~ Once again, we are aware of the benefits of Greek organizations: we've con- tributed money to various charitable causes, heightened awareness through lecture sponsorship, volunteered in the community like everyone else etc., etc., etc ... Theoretically we look great on paper, and so do we often lO()k greatin reality. But there are weak spots, and as a highly visible socia:l congregation, we are in a position to influence, and yes, even promote a change in the negative social situation:! that are, without an argument, part of life at Union. As a part of the system (both socially and academically), we cannot, and should not, avoid responsibility at least in part, for those problems that plague us: alcohol abuse,. male/female issues, security abuses,. discrimination, vandalism (to name a few). I feel that the situation could readily improve if all students made it a priority; but we, as Greek member C()uld have an in- strwnental role in this change. True, the issues do indeed run deepJ and merely disbanding our org~ations woutd not eliminate the . pt0blem. However. like a filter, we serve to l~ssen or to magnify the effects these issues have on our campus. , Let.· us not be comf\(}rtable wit~ our own orgamzation that we disregard the concerns and perceptions of those. around us including Greeks as well as independents. We do have a responsibilty within this college community - a shiired duty to recognize both the pluses and the minuses on our campus, and take a step . to rectify the negative. For those blasting all criticisms of fraternal life and those .only able to find .fault with Greek life; come down off your moral horse. None of us are so righteous as to have the op- portunity to pass blame. Take a look at what people are saying: keep the valid points as food for thought, and consider the exaggerations a mere ex- pression of the frustration we all feel. These arguments are useful, if only to question our attitudes. Perhaps our academic com- munity is wondering if the discrimination and the disregard for ene another is perpetuated by small, ex- clusive, fraternal groups. Wouldn't it be more con- structive on our part to work towards finding a solution, or at least improve the situation, than to sit behind our doors and deny any correlation? Talk is cheap. If you can be confident in your contribution, you really have nothing to hide. If you are silent when you witness an injustice, then you condone it just as surely as if you were the perpetrator. Until we all are ready to do that much ~ it's a grim forcast for progress. Bickering as to blame blinds us in brainstorming for an-answer. Donna Lanzendorf '87 CO.NCORDJE!\'SIS, April 21, 19-S~ '·' No s,olution Foolproof Against Discrimination . Continued from page 13 Wild~r saying that while seXism exists on campus, it \rear$ its ugly though usually innocuous little head\ in. both sororities · and fraternities with, I believe we are to take it, eqUal instances occurring in each. To imagine, with Wilder, that sexism ha~ an innocuous form is, I guess; to admit that while rape will-not be : tolerated, sexist attitudes will ·: since they, when they seldom · occur, really have no con- sequences-thus their \small heads.\ And now, I, .like Wilder professes in his article, feel like I am forced to state the obvious. When Wilder says that \men and women are different (and I guess he is speaking biologically and not oii- tologically} and regardless of the Greek system, the over· Whelming majority will choose to live separately,\ l have to disagree on the grounds that if there can be said to . be a \natural tendency\ for cohabitation between the sexes, it is certainly to live together. rather t}lan, as Wilder directly claims, to live with their own. Finally, I agree with what I think is Wilder's assertion that fraternities do not exi~ (in order) to degrade women. This is true but not very significant since many institutions (i.e., slavery) do not exist to degrade, demean or denom~ce · but for other (sometimes vir- tuous) reasons; it just ends up that in ~me instances, in- stitutions turn out to· be depersonalizing and motally repugnant. As Wilder points out ' in the beginning of his article, · most Societies are formed by . · individuals who w[sh to pursue · :mutual interests. I do not believe that every such group is, by virtue of its havirtg a , requir~ent for membership necessarily racist and-or sexist. aowever., when institutions turn ():Ut in practice to be sexist and~ or racist even if they have no ))olicy that incriminates themselves as such {which would be foolish anyway), then we must repudiate those in· stitUtions. · · S. Bradford Doyle quotes one of his brothers as saying something very ridiclllous in regardto ·the recent awl!I'eness -that there tnight be a problem in the way women and minorities are treated on this campus which, none can argue, is largely affected by the fraternity system. He .quotes: \ 'We do not need to justify our ·eldstence'-to the community.\ I would be interested to know if this Alumnus feels that Oliver :North and Gen. Poindexter owe this country E!. justification of their actions· or whether their organizat~on is likewise exempt from the public criticism. I do not mean to be facetious here, because I believe there has already been enough flippant talk, and it only distracts from the important issues at hand. In the ·first place, I am not sure why Doyle promises to 1Jive a (the first) \significant rebuttal\ to Davis' first and second letter since I understood each to making questions and not accusations but, I ·confess, this might be attributable to my severe reading of !'questions.\ In response to Doyle's cOn- tentions: if the networking of fratemities \only\ goes as far .as the first interview, it is still suspect to violating non~ · discriminatory laws (look it up). If fraternities do provide many chances for leaderhip training and individual growth, then we can conclude only that fraternities do some good. llowever, we s}lould not allow the fact that they do some good obsc1,11'e the fact th~t they also do some bad. Ho:wever,it is not, th~n a 9uestion of weighing ~he good Wlth the b~d to detemune where the scale will tip. What is being. balanced is, on the one side, the unfair and sometimes violent treatment of women and tnlnorities on this-campus ~d, on the other, the merits that could, as I Will suggest, be as easily had by groups living together without wearing emblems and fostering mysterious and sometimes «lehumanizing rituals of • 'brotherhood~'' While admirably doing a fine turn for the community and-or C!haritable causes now and then, what now exist as fraternities C!ould be dissolved into houses wheve. individuals of both sexes and all races and religions. coUld live together and contribute in these same ways without also . <!arrying t'he enigma of discrimination. If this suggeStion is accepted, 1) there· is no guarantee that men or women or blacks or cbicanos or orientals or whites will never congregate to defame and demean other gvoups on this campus. 2)·there· is no guarantee that sexual violence in its various .forms will disappear frmn this campus. 3)there is no guarantee that the files of old tests and papers that many fraternities possess to 'help out' their brothers will cease to eXist. However, if you think that these are real problems at Union and would like to see tbem confronted sefiously, and if you think that fraternities are not innocent as institutions- simply exi$ting to enjoy the fraternal bonciS to be had by living together under a name, an oath, a secret handshake, then it shouldn't both~r you to forgo the free beer that is to be had on Friday and Satlll'day nights. Sincerely, Chidsey Dickson Student Fo·tum ,Elections~ Friday May 6 1 1988 Pick up petitions in Mrs. Marra's office,· 'Thursday April21, 1988. . - Petitions due in Mrs. Marra's office Mon.day May 2,1988. Student Forum President V.P. Administration V .P. Finance .1 V.P. Academic Affairs ~...y.Junior Representative to the Board of ~ Trustees ( · SophQn;tor~ 1 J~nior, Seni~r ~lass · ·· '·· ,:.· ·r{~pr.e·seD:tat~ves .· . . . , I I

CONCORDl/!'1\'SIS, A'pril 11, 1988 Page lS ORIENTATION ADVISORS WANTED: ~ . Like 1neeting new people ... Like tnoving tables . o .. · Like being social . . . Like· introducing new students .to co.llege life ... ,. Like wearing the same T-shirt 4 days in a row?? THEN APPLY TODAY!!! Applications available .in the Dean of Students' Office (3rd Floor, College Center). Applications due Friday, April 22. • : f ! , I 1 J . • : :-. ! ; ~ , ~ - I 1 \It was a fun time •.. I ·enjoyed showihg people what Union is all about. Everyone who's ?nyone should apply!!\ Peter Scott, ·as. \Orientation is so much fun. Meeting the new students, the social events, the deck show- everything about it was great.\ Chris Sheridan, '88 • > .V .. :1 .... EnJoy: i ·, ·• · Orientation ' with the New Students· in 1988 . ' '. If you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact either Wendy Endres 386-4461, Bruce Hopkins, 377- 0765 or Kathy Nyus, 393-9421. \The opportunity to meet new students and getting to · ·know other Union students is something. that is fun to be a part of and it is really great to work with other dedicated and enthusiastic students.\ Chris Donnelly, '88 \It was quite an exciting experience to meet the new stuqents. Orientating and introducing them to the College was a worthwhile commitment.\ Amy Rosenthal, ·sa \It's the tougl)est job you'll ever love, especially if your O.A. partner is amazing.\ Mary Ann Dunham, '88

Page 16 ' Title: Falling·Giass, {1983) Photogra_pher Zeke Berman to L.e·cture By E~lZABETHBERLINER has participated in large displays, including shows at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. MacDowell Colony residencY and Guggenheim fellowship, and has been positively reviewedin''Photography~ The State of the Art'~ 1988. Exam- ples of his work are present in numerous private collections, and several fabulous museums such as the Musellm of-_Modern . · Art (NYC), the Metropdlitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Fine Arts and the Art Institute · : . -·r ·AR.T·S &. FILMS ',i ' ·, J' •:, > , , '•,_' '- : ' • ... ' , I 0 t' .Fantastic Folk By KATIE :BOYJ> Caffe -Lena this Sunday will host the man bebind.sucb songs as ''The Marvelous· To.y\ \Whose Garden Was_This,\ and ''The Last Thmg:On My Mind\. songs whlch migl1t _ bring- memories of ·Peter, Paul and Mary, Joan Baez, or · John Denver. The man is Tom Paxton. He will be perfom}ing on Sunday, Apl\il 24,' at six and ninep.rrt Tom Paxton began writing songs as an undergraduate of the -University of Oklahoma. Years· later,. after a stint in the army, Paxton moved to New York's Greenwich Village. He performed in coffee houses. While there, he published some of his .songs in such magazines as Broadside and Sing Out. Back in New York,· Paxton, · recently interviewed, sta.'ted ''I still love mymusic. I still love to feel that one of my sopg~ d()es matter to some~:>ne ... '' Paxton, a-,giant of the folk muster genre, has accepted the first . chair- manship of the Board for the World Folk Music Association. For fans of ,folk, this is a must see .. By courtesy of an In- ternational Education Foun- dation Grant awarded to the Union Arts Department, the renowned photographer 'Zeke Berman will be a visiting lec- turer ·on April 27. His -lecture will be the first of a spring series of arts lectures. Every lecture will include slides of the artists' work. A New York. City resident, Berman has had solo exhibit:s at the Cleveland Museum ot Art, the Art Institute of Chicago, and Berman first made a trip to Union in 1980, and since that experience, has actively pur- sued a teaching career at the School of Visual Arts and Fordham University at Lincoln Center. In addition to photography, he instructs classes in drawing, 2D design, ~d graphic design, .all of which· can be witneSsed in· his photography. of Chicago. \ · Berman is a recipient of the The lectilre . will be held· Wednesday, April27 at 8 p.m. in Room 215 of the Arts Building and is open to ths public. JOIN THE UNION COLLEGE CONCE.RT BAND for an afternoon of music 3:00 pm in the Memorial Chapel Sunday, April 24th There Will Be A Reception Following The Concert Camp Holywood Presents A Mountebank Production .of God spell Tuesday; April26 Room406 in the CoHege Center at 7:00 and 9:00 All are welcome. Refreshments wilt be served.' . DIRTY DANCING • I • Fri. Sat & Sun. at 7,9 & 11 pm · ·. · · · · . · · . d at 7 9 & 11pm E.T ....••.. I ........... Wed~es ay . . , / ALL SHOWINGS AT THE COLLEGE GENTER AUDITORIUM $1 FOR ALL SHOWS. PLEASE, NO FOOD OR BEVERAGE ALLOWED '~ SLEEPER. The do\''\U in this 1/itk is as thrilling· as any in a decode.\ Darld EJtiJ11ln, RDLLING STONE \DIRTY DANCING earns a place as one of the top te\ pop mllsit'party movies. Right up there with SATURDAY NIGHT FEVE~ FLASHOANCE unci FOOTLOOSE.\ 0ap/lllf0arll, EttE MAGAliliE

COlVCUH/JlE.\Sl.'i, April 21, 1988 Title: Falling Glass, (1983) Photographer Zeke Bern1an to Lecture By ELIZABETIIBERLINER By courtesy of an In- temational Education Foun- datim Grant awarded to the Union Arts Department, the renowned photographer Zeke Berman will be a visiting lec- turer on April 27. His lecture will be the first of a spring series of arts lectures. Every lecture will include slides of the artists' work. A.. New York. City resident, Berman has had solo exhibits at the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Art Institute of Chicago, and has participated in large displays, including shows at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. Berman first made a trip to Union in 1980, and since that experience, has actively pur- sued a teaching career at the School of Visual Arts and Fordham University at Lincoln Center. In addition to photography, he instructs classes in draw:ing, 20 design, and graphic design, all of which can be witnessed in his photography. Berman is a recipient of the MacDowell Colony residency and Guggenheim fellowship, and has been positively reviewed in \Photography: The State of the Art\ 1988. Exam- ples of his work are present in numerous private collections, and several fabulous museums such as the Museum of Modern Art (NYC), the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Fine Arts and the Art Institute · of Chicago. The lecture will be held Wednesday, April27 at 8 p.m. in Room 215 of the Arts Building and is open to ths public. JOIN THE UNION COLLEGE CONCERT BAND for an afternoon of music 3:00 pm in the Memorial Chapel Sunday, April 24th There Will Be A Reception Following The Concert ARTS & FILMS Fantastic Folk By KATIE BOYD Caffe Lena this Sunday wHl host Ute man behind such songs as \The Marvela us Toy\ \Whose Garden Was This,\ and ''The Last Thing .On My Mind'', songs which might bring memories of Peter, Paul and Mary, Joan Baez, or John Denver. The man is Tom Paxton. He will be performing on Sunday, April 24, at six and nine p.m. Tam Paxton began writing songs as an undergraduate of the University of Oklafiorna. Years later, after a stint in the army, Paxton moved to New York's Greenwich Village. He performed in coffee houses. While there, he published some of his songs m such magazines as Broadside and Sing Out. Back in New York, Paxton, recently interviewed, stated \I still love my music. I still love to feel that one of my songs does matter to someone ... \ Paxton, a giant of the folk music genre, has accepted the first chair- manship of the Board for the World Folk Music Association. For fans of folk, this is a must see. · BI..AS and t;noun~Qba,*Jk~,,..re pro(!(~., to o.f:fer. a preview pe.rtor:manQe of; ... : .·.-,. ON PARENT'S WEEKEND Friday, May 6 and Satu:rday, May 7 7 :00· pm Old Chapel Hall Because this is a preview performance tickets will be free of charge. Reservations MUST be made. Nott Memorial Theatre Box Office 370-6158 Camp Ho!ywood Presents A Mountebank Production of THIS WEEK'S ON CAMPUS MOVIES Godspell Tuesday, April 26 Room 406 in the College Center at 7:0() and 9:00 All are welcome. Ref res hme nts will be served. '--••-•a•o __ , ____ ........... DIRTY DANCING . • . Fri. Sat. & Sun. at 7,9 & 11 pm E.T ..... · .........•.... Wednesday at 7,9 & 11 pm ALL SHOWINGS AT THE COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM $1 FOR ALL SHOWS. PLEASE, NO FOOD OR BEVERAGE ALLOWED \A SLEEPER. rhe dancing in this flick is as thrilfing os any in o decade.\ Oo\d Edt/\'\ ~OWNG STONE \DIRTY DANCfNG earns o place os one of the top ten 'pop music' party movies. Right up there with SAfURDAY N/GHf FEVER, FLASH DANCE and FOOTLOOSE.\ . Ooph.,. o,,.. EHE MAGAJINE r I I I

CONCOROJENSIS, April 21, 1988 Page 17 .......... < ..... ~ . 'P . \'\' ;;;I . ' ....... WRUC THE NEW~ 8.97 \f At first· there was nothing, abso·lutely nothing. And then God said \let there be sound.\ And there was sound, almost like static that was interrupted once in a while by the words\ ... This is 89.7 WRUC, Schenectady ... \ Then I cranked it No. Artist Album Label 1 Mighty Lemon Dr;ops World w/o End Sire 2 Mambo-X Machines o.f Eden Trust 3 OMD Best of . A & M 4 Talking Heads Naked Sire 5 Rods-n-Cones New Breed Invasion 6 Smithereens Greenfish Capitol 7 The Church Starfish Artista 8 Miracle Legion Glad Rough Trade 8.97 Naked Hoyguli Jettison Carol TOP ADDS X, lsm, The Lights ADVENTURE PICKS Hyaa! The Co61ies, Young Caucasians we·re Planning an By JIM MacLAUGHLIN Arts Editor SCHOOL DAZE Starred, written and directed by Spike Lee. Rated R At Crossgates. Mall Cinema At least one thing can be said about the multi-talented Spike Lee: he's not the easiest artist to put into words. After the bare-bones brashness t)f She's Gotta Have It, Lee's next picture was eagerly awa:ited.· with an- ticipation of another does of his highly original sense of humor. With School Daze, a comedy- musical, he provides the laughs, but not without making the viewer think about what is. fUIU1y and what is not. School Dazetakes.place at the fictional, all black, Mission College. As a cinematic in- stitute of higher- learning, Mission is fairly standard on first appearance; fraternity pledges going through EARTH DAY A Compus .. wide ce'lebration of our existence on this planet.Featuring TolksJ Arts and Crafts, Songs, Gomes, Food and other Earth conscious activities. If you're ~ interested please attend an organiaztional meeting of~ th.e first annual Union CoTiege celebration of Earth Day. 1t. ;--:-fo.. ~;) ~' THURSDAY APRIL 21AT 5:00PM '\~~ ... ~OLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM ./'--) ( . :1 DO SOMETHING NICE· FOR YOUR PLANEr·-m:~ . - \ ' / \.. . / • ..J Get a <.'luc. Get an opin~on. Read \ Concordiensis News Analysis Page Two. k ARTS &· FILMS Jim and Buddy at the Movies initiation, sorority sisters bickering about fashion and boyfriends, radicals. protesting, and corny hoopla surrow1eiing Homecoming weekend. But rest easy, Spike Lee qUickly dispels any audience fears of \going Disney\~ Rather, Lee spices School Daze with characters and issues that· continuously argue, throughout the film, about what should be normal, and acceptable, for an all-black college and its students. As in She's Gotta Have It, Lee is never one to pull a punch with a scene, and so it is in School Daze. He gives both sides of the issues attacked in the fibn full voice, allowing the characters who stand on each side to fully vent their spleens. When the campus protest leader for a \Divest from South Africa\ movement voices displeasure at his friends' apathy to the cause, they tell him that they don't think the protest is worth get- ting expelled for. Also, the female students are divided into factions, hurling vicious epithets\' at each other over those who wear their hair in the tradition Afro and those who straighten it. · Lee reserves the most star- tling scenes in the movie for the fraternities, showing them as highly degrading in their initiation practices. As ''Half- Pint,\ Lee portrays one of the pledges of the ''Ganunas,\ and for his troubles )le is made to wear a dog collar and chain while he is paraded around campus. The initiation rites are not shown as being the light- hearted, fun and games stuff of most \college\ movies. Instead, Lee depicts a stressful, humiliating experience that gives \Half-Pint\ a rather dubious reward. As a film, School Daze is thought provoking, funny, and stimulating. Spike Lee shows a genuine flair for capturing on film both the seriousness of a situation, and its inherent humor. FilmGradeB+ ARTS BRIEFS AT CAFFE LENA THEATRE Three concerts: Anita Sihert on April 22 at 8:30, Andrew Calhoun on April 23 at 8:30, and Tom Paxton on April24 at 6 & 9. AT THE ALBANY INSTITUTE OF HISTORY AND ART \Japan Day\ featuring woodblock printing demonstration, puppetry, origami, and four short Japanese films. Sunday, May 22 from 12-5 p.m. AT SUNY ALBANY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Five senior recitals April 22, 23, 25 and May 1. Admission is free. For further information call Alton McCloud at 442-3995. AT EMMA WILLARD'S KIGGINS THEATER Premier of Andrea I~sacs and Moving Images Dance Co. on May 6 and 7 at 8:00p.m. Tickets are $8 for students and $7 for senior citizens. For infonnation or reservations call274-4440. AT BOGIE'S IN ALBANY \Rox against Rcaganomx\ concert featuring Picture This and E. Plemnista to benefit the \People's Pinxtcrday Festival.\ Show begins at 10 p.m. on May 12 and admission is $3. AT CAPITAL REP THEATER IN ALBANY \The Nerd\ - Larry Shucs hilarious and romantic comedy from Broadway. Runs May 1 -June 12: Tuesday -Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 4:30p.m. & 9 p.m., and Sunday at 2:30p.m. Tickets arc $12 - $19. IN: CONCERT SUNDAY, APRIL24, 1988 AT 7 PM at Congregation p.gudat Achim 2117 Union St., Schenectady, NY SOLD AT DOOR Discount Price Student Tickets $6.00 Reservations: Call Dave 372·9224 For Advance Tickets ¢ BENEFIT FOR YOUTH SCHOLARSHIP ¢

' ,. ' r' I I i I ' .: :l 'I ~~ ',6 ' j :I J i J I :j ,I \{ '· ,j ,I I . I i J CONCORDJENSJS, April 21, 1988 Page 17 WRUC THE NEW 8.97 At f!rst there was nothing. absolutely I notnmg. And then God said \let there be I sound.'' And there was sound, almost like !'. static that was interrupted once in a while by the words\ ... This is 89.7 WRUC. 1 1 Sch·snectaov .. \ Then I cranked it. f SCHUOJ, IJAZE Stan·ec. writter: and dire<.tec by Spike ~-'='~ Rated l{ At Cross~ates Mall Cmemc: No. Artis'; Aibum b.aQei ' Mignty Lemon Drops World wio End Sire ' 2 Mambo>: Machines of Eden Trust 3 OMD Best o; A&M <i Talking Heads Naked Sire ,... Rods-n-Conos New Breed Invasion ::' 6 Sm1therocrb Greenfish Capito! ..., The Churct1 Starfish Artista I 8 Miracle Legion Glad Rough Trade 8.97 Naked Roygun Jettison Carol TOP ADDS X, Ism, The Lights ADVENTURE PICKS Hyaa! The Coolies, Young Caucasians We're Planning an i I At iea:,t un (' thmg can be sa1d abom the :multi-taiented Spike Lee: he's not the easiest artist tu put tnt(' words. After the bare-bones brashness of She's Gotta Havr It. Lee's next picture ' was eagerly awaited with an· ticipation of another does of his highly original sense of hwnor. With School Daze, a comedy- musical, he provides the laughs, but not without making the viewer think about what is funny and what is not. School Daze takes place at the fictional, all black, Mission College. As a cinematic in- stitute of higher learning, Mission is fairly standard on first appearance; fraternity pledges going through EARTH DAY A Campus-wide celebration of our existence on this planet. Featuring Talks, Arts ond Crafts, Songs, Gomes, Food and other Earth conscious activities. If you're ~ inter~sted please .attend an organiazt!onol meeting of Q;ijJ the f1rst annual Un1on College celebration of Earth Day. .~ · •).:_• N:J 1 2 3 4 5 jd THURSDAY APRIL 2lAT 5:00PM ~~;:_, _COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM 1 DO SOMETHING NICE FOR YOUR PLANET ::1 Cross.gates Mall. C ...• .· .. tnem.a. Bad Dreams 1 =50, 4:55, 7:55·. Bright Lights., Big City 7:~5, 10:()5 Man from Snowy River Partll 1:45, 4:40 Permanent Record 1:40, 4;30, 1:40, Blood Sport 1:35,4:25, 1:35, Fri. & Sat QNL'Y 1'0:25 12:30 12:25 10:30 12:3!). 10:15 12:2() Get a clue. Get an opinion. Read Concordiensis News Analysis Pa~c Two. '- 6 The Fox & The Hound 1 ;25 7 Seventh Sign == ARTS & FILMS Jim and Buddy at the Movies initiation, sororit v sisl ers bickering abotlt fashion and boyfriends, radicals protesting, and corny hoopla surrounding Homecoming weekend. But resl easy, Spike Lee quickly dispeis any audience f€an:; of .. gc)L!1~' Disney\. Hather, Lc~ ::mice: School !Jaze 1\.'ttr character~ and issues tha~ contmuousl\ argue, througli(IU: th~ flirT.. ai:.lout what .:mo ilia be norma_. and acceptable. for an all-black college and its students As in She's G~tta Have It. Lee is neve!\ one tO> pull a punch with a scene. and Sll' 1t ts m Sd1oo1 Daze. He gives both sides of the issues attacked in the film full voice, allowing the characters who stand on each side to fullY vent their spleens. When th~ campus protest leader for a \Divest from South Africa\ movement voices displeasure at his friends' !3-!>athy to the cause, tlley tell hun that they don't tllink the protest is worth get- ting expelled for. Also, the female students are divided into factions. hurling vicious epithets at each other over those who wear their hair m the tradition Afro and those whc• straighten it. Lee reserves the most sta~­ tlL'1g scenes in tlw movie iur- tht' fraternities. showing thern a:: highly degradinf m tne:: initiation practic:es. As \Half· Pint.\ Lee portrays one of trk pleaf:!es of thP \(;amma:..\ anci fur his troubles '1e IS made '', wear a dog colla:- and chaw while he is paraded arollllcl campus. The initiatwn rites ar~· not shown as being tht ligh:- hearted, fun and games stuff of most ··college\ movw.::: Instead, Lee depicts a stressfuJ. humiliating experience tha: gives \Half-Pint\ a rather dubious reward. As a film, Schooi Daze is thought provoking, funny, and stimulating. Spike Lee shows a genuine flair for capturing on film both the seriousness of a situation, and its inherent humor. FilmGradeB-r ARTS BR.IEFS AT CAFFE LENA THEATRE Three concerts: Anita Silvcrt on April 22 at 8:30, Andrew Calhoun on April 23 at 8:30, and Tom Paxton on April24 at 6 & 9. AT THE ALBANY INSTITUTE OF HISTORY AND ART \Japa.n Day\ featuring woodblock printing demonstration, puppetry, origami, and four short Japanese films. Sunday, May 22 from 12-5 p.m. AT SUNY ALBANY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. Five senior recitals April 22, 23, 25 and May 1. Admission is free. For further information call Alton McCloud at 442-3995 . AT EMMA WILLARD'S KIGGINS THEATER Premier of Andrea Is sacs and Moving Images Dance Co. on May 6 and 7 at 8:00 p.m. Tickets arc $8 for students and $7 for senior citizens. For infonnation or reservations call 274-4440. AT BOGIE'S IN ALBANY \Rox against Rcaganomx\ concert featuring Picture This and E. Plemnista to benefit the \People's Pinxtcrday Festival.\ Show begins at 10 p.m. on May 12 and admission is $3. AT CAPITAL REP THEATER IN ALBANY \The Nerd\ - Larry Shucs hila1ious and romantic comedy from Broadway. Runs May 1 -June 12: Tuesday - Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 4:30p.m. & 9 p.m .. and Sunday at 2:30p.m. 'Tickets arc $12- $19. 8 Above The Law 9 The Unholy 10 School Daze 4:05, 7:10,9:50 12:05 1:20, 4:1{), 7:20, 10:00. 12:15 IN CONCERT SUNDAY, APRIL 24, 1988 AT 7 PM at Congregation Agudat Achim SOLD AT DOOR 11 Seetlejuice 21; 7 Union St., Schenectady, NY Discount Price Student Tickets $6.00 12 Casual $e'x ' 13 Biloxi 131oes i4 Stand & Deliver 1:10, 3:50; 7:00, 9:40 12:40., 3:30, 6:35, 9:20 12:50, 3:25~.6:251 9':05 1 :00, 3:4(), $~80, '9:30 12 .. 3r= ..., .•. r~n. ·.~ .• :iwin. n,,flfil· ·· •. ·~f (llii~tJ• w.,~v\ ··~-~~\1 12:00 11:50 11:35 11:40 11:20 Reservations: Call Dave 372-9224 For Advance Tickets ¢ BENEFIT FOR YOUTH SCHOLARSHIP x):

• •' It • \ \ r ' ~ ~ • • .,.... • ~ '\ Page 18 CONCOR.QIENSIS, April 21, 19/UJ ()~~.· .. u~fp3. LAI\~ AFEWCHOICESEATSSTILLAVAILABLEFOR :5tt~~f{; / . . . *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men Tanning Special 1st Visit Free Weekly 6 Visits $6.95 Tanning Special 50 Visits $49.95 Tarom1ng Sculptured Special Na1ls & Tips 100 Visits $24.95 ~- $75.00 reg. 35oo with Union I.D . • Walk-Ins Welcome *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. 1307 Nott St. 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady ILLUSION, FANTASY TO STUDY PIPPIN May 5,6~7- 11 1 121 13114 at the Nott Memorial Theatre Make reseNations right this minute! DELTA GAMMA OLYPICS COMING SOON! NEXT SPRING 0989) ' MARINE STUDIES TERM ABROAD BERMUDA CAPE COD SCHOONER EXPEDITION GULF OF MAINE Con act: Professor Kaplan Sociology Or Term Abroad Office 370-4630 DUTCHMAN'S NIGHTS SATU.RDAYS & SUN:DAYS ,, \- 5:00 7:30 P·M Why wait in line? It's still only 1 meal card punch Make reservations at Dutch Hollow Restaurant before Thursday at.3:00 pm '' Dad~s right. You get wliat you pay for.~~ More people choose AT&T over any other long distance service. Because, with AT&T, it costs less than you think to get the service you expect, like clearer connections, 24- hour AT & T operator assistance, instant crediJ on wrong numbers. And the assurance that we can put virtually every one of your calls through the • · first time. That's the genius of the AT&TWorldwicle - , Intelligent Network. So when it's time to make a choice, remember, it pays to choose AT & T. If vou'd like to know more about our products or services, like the AT & T Card, call us at 1800 222-0300. AT•T· The right choice.

CONCORDIENSJS, April 21, 198.8 Page_ 19 S,CIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY DuPont Takes Action On Aerosols By J. STUARTPRA:Tl' In 1974, E.L. DuPont de Nemours & Co. pledged that if chlorofluomcarbons (CFCs) were a threat to public health, DuPont wQuld ·stop production of those chemicals. They did this because there was a theory presented at tht time that CFCs would deplete the ozone in the. upper at- mosphere. In 1978, the gover~ nment banned the use .of CFCs ih aerosol cans. Then, in 1985, British scientists in Antartica observed a hole in the ozone layer. Another hole was. then found over the. Artie. Studies were published that p~rtially blamed CFCs for . a global thinning ,of the ozone layer. In Montreal, t\nder the auspices of the United Nations En- vironmental Program, a treaty was produced, · to cut the production of CFCs by 50 percent •by 1999. The Montreal treaty limits five CFCs and three Halons, a related sub- stance. The treaty will take effect when the 11 nations that consume two-thirds of the world's CFCs have signed it. So far only the Uriited States and Mexico have ratified it. On March 15, the NASA-sponsored Ozone Trends Panel released its .analysts of all existing data. The panel reported a 1. 7 to 3 percent depletion of the year- round global ozone. Finally DuPont reacted. · They an- nounced that they would phase out the production of CFCs. Last year, DuPont had CFC sales of $600 million, only 2 percent of their total revenues. DuPont has been developing substitutes, spending $30 million over the last 10 years, including $10 miJHon in 1987 ahme. Of their findings so far, four substitutes have been disqualified due to toxicity, three are in production, and more are pending. . CFCs are presently used .for · producing foams for insulation arid cushi(ms, as refrigerants in air . conditioning and refrigeration, to sterilize- medical instruments, and in the manufacturing of printed circuit boards. Halon is used in fire ·e~tinguishers and fire extinguishing systems. CFCs . a1·e nontoxic, nonflammable, noncorrosive, and extremely stable. What is wrong with them is that they accumulate in the · upper atmosphere and destroy ozone. Ozone shields the earth from ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Mild UV radiation is what causes you to tan, but too much of it can cause skin cancer. While CFCs are ex .. tremely stable in the lower atmosphere, having a lifetime of more than 100 years, when they reach the upper at- mosphere they are broken down by the strong UV radiation. Then the components react with the ozone, breaking it apart. Halons, although used less than CFCs, are more destructive to the ozone. GFCs are also thought to contribute to the greenhouse effect.- $135 billion worth of products are made every year with CFCs, using 2.5 billion pounds of CFCs. The greatest user was the United States, who used '700 million pounds. The short-term answer is recycling or diluting of CFCs, but the long term · answer is alternatives. The CFC producers and users should have been working on alternatives as soon as there was a strong suspicion of CFCs destructive possibilities, They are now rushing to find ac- ceptable substitutes, which should be on the mar~et within five years. Although they wre also slow, DuPont should be commended for their actions in finally phasing out CFCs, and everyone should follow their example. \AH HAl.\ Ffom What's So Funny About Science by Sidney Harris The Minerva Hour Ttle Minerva Committee of Union College presents April 28 SARA MACK is associate professor of classics at Univershy of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She earned her B.A .. from Smhh College and her M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard University. She has received the H.J. Reynolds Junior Faculty Development Award and fellowships from the National Humanities Center and the Mary Ingraham Bunting Institute of Radcliffe. Thursdays, 11 a.m. All lectures are in tlte Union College Center Auditorium All are welcome. Admission free. For information: (518) 37Q..650S. Union Represented At Roc·hester Symposium ~pace Capsule - Future Astronauts By BECKY KOOPMANN On Saturday, April 9, a group of Union College physics students traveled to the University of Rochester to attend the 8th annual Rochester Symposium sponsored by the national Society of Physics Students. · The purpose of the sym- posium is to provide un- dergraduates in physics with the opportunity to present research papers at a meeting similar to those of professional societies. The symposium consisted of a series of talks, beginning at 9: 00 a.m. and continuing in parallel sessions until 2:50 p.m. (with ~ lunch break). Five Union students, Marcus Drew, Marc Jaffrey, Stuart Pratt, Egyed Zoltan, and Becky Koopmann, gave talks: Chad Hall, Sing- Yuri Lee, Nick Mrozka, Miki Nomura, and Professor S. Maleki (the faculty advisor) also attended. Many other schools were represented, but few had as large a contingent as Union. Mter the talks, the students were given tours of the University of . Rochester facilities. The highlight had to be the 'tour of the Laboratory for Laser • ~-n~rgetics an(~: . tlw Nuclear · · structure·- Research· Laboratory. Scientists . use the terawatt laser in the LLE in the search for controlled fusion power (cf. SCience News, April 2, 1988) and. in other studies of high-power laser beam in- teractions with matter. The NSRL contains a 15-million volt tandem Van de Graaf ac- celerator which is used in various areas of experimental nuclearphysics,. This trip gave the opportunity not only to ·obtain valuable experience in presenting research papers, but also to meet and talk with physics students from other universities and colleges. A special thank-yo1,1 goes to Professor Maleki without whose help and accompaniment the trip would have been im-. possible. By MARTY HECK Where do astronauts come from? If your younger brother or sister asks you this, now you can tell them. The answer is the Future Astronauts Training Program. The F ATP is a program • . based . in Hutchinson Kansas that gives seventh to ninth graders a glimpse of what beconring an astronaut is like. One of the great space centers in the United States is the Kansas Cosmosphere and Space Center, which houses space artifacts and equipment valued weU over 200 million dollars. In addition, the Space Center sponsors the F A:TP. . Each week from May 29 to August 5, groups of thirty teenagers attend the school. Level l of the program is designed to familiarize youngsters with some aspects of astronaut traii}ing. Students begin Day ·1 with · lectures and demonstrations emphasizing the extremely harsh conditions of. space in which astronauts are forced t& work. They are placed in.. a space craft simulator and required to perform various tasks while biological tests are performed, comparing their heart rate, lung capacity, blood pressure, etc. to the minimum levels required by real astronauts. Tlle second day is more physical testing. After learning ab9~t propulsion,_,stuqents are . tested for mobility fn .space suits and given stress tests. One test is a pitch black chamber in which tne student must respond to a series of lights simultat- neollsly. Another simulator mimics the expericene of flight. Day three is a continuation of day two, but at this point the stud~nts begin planning their own shuttle missions. Day four consists of launch Control, Mission control, and Flight Crew training. : Tbe experience culminates on Day five with two simulated Shuttle missions. Experiments are conducted, satellites are laurtched and students are given a glimpse of what being an astronaut is like. In the af· tern()on, graduation ceremonies are held, and each student is presented with astronauts wings. Students may then enter one of the Level II sessions in ' Comprehensive Test Ban By ALAN DE SALVIO I've seen a few fliers, signs, booths, videos, etc., espousing a Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban covering both the US and the USSR, and the rest of the world. It is fairly common knowledge that the saintly Soviets are presently (or up until recently were) honoring a test ban of their own, and that we awful Imperialist Yankees are· not~ instead furthering the causes of death and destruction by testing our weapons under Ne:vada. My initial response to such anti-testing paraphenalia is probably similar to that of most laymen in the field - I'm not aware of all the facts, and therefore not equipped to judge. Presumably those who sign petitions, make signs, etc., are. Why would anyone want a nuclear test ban? Non- proliferation is the most im- portant reason .. If no one can test any weapons, then the only way Khaddafi, for example, can get a reljable nuclear weapon is through the superpowers, hopefully a tightly regulated area of trade. Weapons testing also applies to the \arms race,\ for three. reasons. Nuclear weapons are constructed out of chenlically active and highly radioactive materials, which steadily un- dergo changes that can ad .. · versely affect their per- formance. First, regular tests are considered necessary to ensure these devices are still functional (presently, only 80% of our total strategic weapon delivery systems are expected to fllnction adequately). Second, constant testing . is required to maintain the country's cadre of weapons design e:xperts in the national laboratories. Third, testing is needed to build safer and more secure weapons, to optimize weapons for new delivery systems and to further the science of nuclear explosions. A test ban would be easy to verify with present seismographic and satellite- based gamma ray observation nuclear detonation technology, unlike most arms limitation or eradication treaties, all of which are extremely difficult to check. All of the above reasons supporting a test ban are valid only in support of a nuclear-free · world. Eliminate the nuclear weapons, and the test ban becomes another tool in en- suring they never return. But if nuclear weapons are seen as a necessary deterrent, then a way must be found to circumvent the problems testing ·is used to solve. r think the question of a comprehensive test ban has been understandable, and correctly, overshadowed b,y the possiblility of a START treaty at the arms control talks in Geneva. However, the recent- as yet unratified - INF treaty should not be allowed to generate some sort of \treaty hysteria.'' At the present. state of US nuclear weapon design and delivery technology, which is behind the Soviet Union's in most areas, a test ban is not in the US's. best interests. On the other hand, the question of a verifiable strategic nuclear weapon reduction treaty is. The text of this article is based for the most part on an aMicle by one of the founders of both .nuclear · weapon technology and control, Herbert Y()rk, in the April Physics Tcday. late July and August. Any adult wishing he or she had a glimpse of space can experience a three-day adult space camp in Huntsville, Alabama. Many tests and ac- tivites are similar to those of the F ATP. The most demanding test of the adult camp, the multi-axis trainer, consists of three rings, one inside the other. Each ring spins on a different axis. The subject is exposed to a few minutes of random tumbling, the worst of which is when the axes line up and send the person spinning at a high rate of speed and forcing all the blood to the brain. In the future, it is likely that thousands of people may be working in space. With NASA concentrating on exploration, it is possible that programs like these may be training all astronauts in the future. Anyone desiring information on either of these programs can contact me at Box #78ft -Correction- The April 7th Richard Feynman article erroneously shared Dr. Feynmans 1986 \Nobel Prize for Quantum Eletrodynamics with Murray Gell-mann Concordiensis regrets the error PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM \Picnic Hydrogen Atoms- formation, decay and use in chemistry\ Dr. Dezso Horvath Division for Particle and Nuclear Physics Central Physics Research Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Budapest and Brookhaven National Laboratory Date: Thursday, April 21, 1988 Place: Steinmetz Hall Time: 4:45 p.m.

' - Pagt! 20 Deaconate OrdiuatiGn- Saturday, April 23, at 11 a.m. Friar Phil Daley will\ be or- dained a deacon at St. Anthony- on-Hudson, Rennselaer. Any student who wishes to attend and needs transportation .please contact Sr. Joan. Reception-SUilday, April 24 · immediately following the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy there will be a reception in the Rectory for the Union CQtnmunity. Hispanics, Church and Society-Monday, April 25 at 7 p.m. in CC 410 Father Phil Cioppa, Executive Director of the Spanish Apostolate for the Diocese of Albany will be the speaker for the Newman Club. All are welcome. Visit Shut-Ins-Any Union student who wishes to visit a homebound parishioner of St. John's on a regular basis dW'ing these spring months please contact Gerri Borne 372-3381. Tutoring Program-Union College students can be used in · the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten, Computer Math & Library Aides as well as tutoring Math & Reading on a one to one. Please contact Lisa Mercugliano, 386...,986 .. Folk · GroU}J-\\Meets SWlday evenings with Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in St. John the Evangelist Church to prepare for 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members are always welcome. Mountebanks meetings on Tuesdays at 4:30. Everyone is welcome. Earn $50 to $100 per day marketing credit cards to students on campus. work F-T or P-T. 1-80Q-932-0528. Students needed tv help others in their homes PT-FT, flexible hours, call U.S. Care. 382-0298 ($4.25 to start) Interested in politics? Make it pay with citizen action. We are now hiring canvassers to work on environmental and con- sumer campaigns. 2·10 p.m. $190 - $250 per week. Pay training. Part time · full time. Call John at 465-4600. Dutch Colonial; For Sale by Owner. 1092 Brierwood Blvd. 4 bedroom, 1V2 bath. Walking distance to Union. $130,000; Call 377-0006. Moving? $30 per hr. f()r small scale regional moves. 462-0748. Camp Counselors Needed. Girls resident camp in the Adiron- dacks seeks general cowtselors, program specialists, waterfront staff to work with campers aged 6-17. June 27 - August 23. Program included aquatics, creative arts, outdoor living skills, nature and ecDlogy, a ropes course and wilderness trips. Hudson V a.Uey Girl Scout Council - .aD-4936. CONCORDJEJ\:SIS, Apr:il 21, 1988 To the Arabian slut, the faggy clown and the little Armenian - we REALLY have to start partying! -Lori Oreo Kevin ·(who's not a country!) Happy birthday a day late. Admit it, this is better than a postcar(i. Farty seniors rule! ! ! It isn't snowing snow you know, it's saowing vi-o-lets. Congratulations to all the new G-Phi-B sisters! Have a yaba doo time!!! My favorite number ... Sixxxxxx ... To tile Amazing Beta's - You are the 8-B-beans and we love you very much! P .S. Who brought that keg anyway- you lu-lu-:Iu-lu-lush! The sisters- No atlas, no axis ... no sacrum I call it spineless. Christina, we always save the bestfor last, get psyched for the weeks to come. We love you. G- PHI-13 Epsilon and Lambda My life as a dog? How about save the dog or the barefeet executive? Let's rent a jeep and termrrize D Phi highway. Why haven't we driven past choosy foods?. I love us Delta . Mr. Pie-Graph: 39.5 percent of your time, huh? Hey, when am I entitled to the big 100 percent? To my little spring bunny .... or is it my little honey dove? Just for the record, no we did not fall down the hill! Congratulations Heather and Leslie!!! You finally made it. Love, your Big Sisters Dr.B- Warning: Fanny May and Goosie will strike again soon. AA meetings start next week- we'll meet you after for happy hour. lli3rBIPU ';J) ~otl WAVlT 1D jO\VI OJ1\ cRoo~r ct-v B en~ y.esl I PI£~~· } Sue-We are sorry that this is late but we wanted to wish you a· · \Happy Birthday.'' We . celebrated at the Hilton but it wasn't the same without you - Minnesota Twins Pledge Willie, I figured it out: it's the other Willies that give you night- mares! The-4th roomie MikeW, Hey, Leon! I hear ''The closets\ are playing on University tonight, .. and Sun- day! Love, Sue Marj-I think you are right-I need something new to think a bout. I'm tived of the same old stuff.- Yourdedicatedphoner D, DJ, Don, Good luck, maybe you'll be my inspiration. 5 yrs- 2 yrs, what's the difference? G I Dave-nice guys always finish last - or do they even reach the finish line? That's one thing you and I have in common.- Beck Dave, What Becky said is not true, you're not last, you're second. Becky, Although it's all over I'm still curious - what's the fourth one? Lina Gretch - What I said is true-1 know from my own personal experience. Believe me. - Becky Maryann, Thanks for the inspiration - I'm psyched and I'll never forget the don't ever change - wink! wink! almond eyes Congratulations Kimberly Ann Strauchon. I miss you! JenE Sister Mole and killer Thanks for the presents and the 'experience.' Lina and Jane Kristin R. Great job! We love you- Steve- Friends f()rever, okay!?! Love you, Meg Hallie what? N-E~U ... all that trouble, Ned better be worth it otherwise next year, it's just a card. Lina \Partir c'est mourir un peu\ Let's keep searching for those incredible romantics! I'm glad you're now a sister, Lauten. Love, Jennifer John, don't be envious of my date on Tuesday. You are still my main man! Love, J. · Hey \Squirt\ Marchescbi - CQngrats! I'm so proud you're a G .. Phi-B! Love Big Sis- \Mom\ Real .friends are hard to come by I guess. To. go past a first dimensional level takes time and energy. I'm glad we talked · ·. and I hope that we can be 3~d friends, Wendy - Congratulations. I'm re~llly excited that you're a sister. Love, Beth New initiates - what's your favorite number? SIX! . Nancy, If you can't control your Hey la de la de la de Hey la de ·. laughter at least try to control !Jade loWe know abunchofnew . your bladder. sisters. Hey lade lade lo... -----~---- We've made it through· the VLEB ... need I say more? You big stud, take me to bed or toughest part, it only gets better after this! Gamma Phi Beta has severalnewsisters! Yeah!, lose me forever! Guess who! Pat, We love you! Congratulations to our new Cheryl - No more wonder · alumni advisor! pledge! A Cheryl, an Ellen, a · Carolyn, a Jo and a Valeri. KingDoink~ Take us for a ride and solve our What's your favorite number? · problem. Love M and K SIX! I'm in a chi psi, I said I'm in a Chi Psi -If I don't get a beer, I think I'm gonna die. How do you feel Jolvai? I feel RANDOM! Deb- _ C<m't wait till we meet again. Love you, T33 Kim- Congratulations ... You S.D. LoveMandK Top 10 Ideas ForA Thesis by DJK and TMW 10. x-ray detraction throug·h a thermo-lithium membrane 9. Historical parallels between Melmac and Krypton 8. Literary parallels of Hunter s. Thompson and William F. Buckley 7. Luke Skywalker's indecision in \Star Wars·· 6. What is an octopus plug? 5. Influence of mushrooms in the political philosophy of Students fo.r Politcal Actionism and Awareness 4. Literature of. comic books 3. Realism and morality as underlying themes in \Insatiable II\ 2 .. Difference in clothing patterns between Political Science professors and Politicans 1. How many times has the Idol been painted? \\W~ At{YoV\Q cM\e To SH cw 111e co~\\eLA\wN f;e'H#eevt Cftl4~t\ ClVlO B/1(JMCtvb ABittt«?

\ .. '}·. ···.·:·.··- ···:····:· .· ,·· .. ·'•.•., .. • .•.·· ' . weeken4. Let's hope they can't : p~rty as hard as the physics . geeks, llOO·a.m. wastoomuch! ,. .. . Stillman, . You. made it that much more special! I love you! · Presmo's · watching- Gamma Phis-What a great weekend. You make me proud to be a Gamma Phi. B,etharu!Callil~ · F'<ilind: Gold necklace - See We didn't. fo. rg~t yoq .... We love ', cashier. at Dutch HQllow. . . Cliristina Colozzo We love you:! youtoo ! L.L, Hang in there. ·. WV4~ -----~.,.,.........~- To Glowacki, Balzano, Festa and other Yankee fools'-Cleveland 11~2. Chief Wahoo r1,1les! Jamandaand:Fers ·. '\Life sucks ... Love We missed you! Glad you're ·. stinks ... W}lat else is there?\ back t~ answer the 'phone and · · Wh:lndng in Worcester ~nterta.la K.D. Love you both L.L: . · , Bam,.B'()o: Augustus,personified ' · · is the autocrfatic Deer<r! But Becky,: Leslie and Fran ' Thank you so much . for everything·! I love . you aU siJ ~u~?-! 1 !! Love, Your youngest f~nlLly member-Meg J~ne You ~~~ awesome ... w~t, so am I. 'I love you! Mere's ·to good ti11.1es ... oh well. ' ~Perpetu.ar Pledge Lindsay oris it Dave'? I would never take you for grimteij:,I apologize! Lina B, go a, way · . Te~I'E. I never want to see him again. r want everyone to be happy. Thanks for ybur help. Sand:D.Me · To the women: Get ready a did hE have VIRTUS? The Bimbo Leather:: Paul Simon (not the Democrat) plus Gil.ligan .. equals the Inpabitant.of the 'Sea. Pa, Are. you hiding Russell un~er your bed? Or did h~ die .twice with the Bolschiveks? - -'· .. l:ley Caligul~'s. horse,. wer.e yo~ squealing when Drucilla ate th~ pizza spaceship? Deero and Doe-o - 'To tbeConcordyteatn! Thanks, . l.et'sdo itagainthisweekenct. · Cary . ...... . Did you ·nave . fun :sco()pbig Frid~ynight? more West Point n).en tllis ' ' Battles, Barbarous and Bloody PIPPIN Coming Soon to the Nott M'emo ri aJ .. Theatre BLOOM COUNTY. · To all the oew Gamma Phis ~ Hey C minus iie:rd. Dean Martin, I can.'ttell a lie. You are Mr. Whipple. Happy rockets. Love,.A minus · Congratulations. I'm so psyched t() have 23 new sisters! An Alpha All G:od's Chlllun · Got Wings. ~··. A sto.ry of unforgivable de·sire LEA:RN THE BASICS OF· SAILING 3:30 Thursday April 21st Rm 203 College Center ~~~ ·~·... ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ --~~ ~a~~.~~~ AWARE. CROSStALK . \ Is the white male the new/· m-inority? Wednesday, Apdl27 at 8:00 · Carnegie Atrium by Berke Breat)\ed fJOP Ktr0?/5, ICH8(!5H /Jt.ACK PG\Of'l£. .} . 1lJAf./ 5Pt!IK/NO fO(( BtACK~ WfJI?tP WIPe-, W~ PtJNt'HtUe Y()f}/ ... 1?)11 . ) · SDTNewinitiates: We hope you aU feel ''in- . spired''mrw-major congratu- lations. Love, the Sisters . Fijipledges, Lo9king nice ~md hugel Nice day for a .run but maybe a little chilly huh? Thanks for the thrill. Taj'-- . Congrats ()n SDT P .s. StQp fooling around in cell or die. L.uv,B T . 1 \Where's the bim • ... Tct Geek, Bird,.Bimbo, what next? . Luv;LB Ruggets t Good lutk .at the upstate tournamept : this wee~end,l Sicely. and Marlin: Live Long and :P.r~sper. Na Nil Na. Nu. Peace. FromScbarn For sale: One tOOIIlillate, easily abused. C()mes complete .with allhisstl,lff. Call Mandl( ~Uil in tlJe Sun~ . Fitzhugh Ludlow Day May 2oth! Get psyched! B.B. . Thanks for the best ~ffer .I've had an week but if you REALLY loved me yoU:'d <1ffer me Dad's. L.S. Sue~ I'm sony I wasn't bel'.e to ,take you ou.t to dinner ;fur .. your . birthday_ You can . · still celebrate with s.s. Foam - Love, :Shane. · · · P.S. M;y next homerun is for you! I . · : :Hey new si15ters! Congratr!lations! Get psyched. I am! Hapefully next year you all ,will be able to sleep wi.thout beiltime stories or lullabie::; so I can get some sleep! Fletchel'~ ~tobnox:ious, Hom~Raping guys in the elevator is just toQ sick to handle! · To the sisters of Gamma Phi Beta-(Jld and new --...the spring has just begun it's time to Party; Party, P?rty! Robin and Maia Winger-Woman, hey sis, Jack Straw from Whichita had an intense sunshine daydream. Wanna join him? Love, Robin andMaia To Beta of the Betas: You did it! And I'm so proud of you! We'll 111ake this last term the best. Keepsmiling. Your pres and B.S .. Caroly!l-Well Woman you finally made it! Now after 3 yrs. your not only my roommate and my sister. I know I'm corny but .... Heather, Next time try the bathrooms inFox-Lina Terri, · . Getme a beer! Just kidding. 'Love you One word of advice: Bladder contl'ol is essential. We know wh~? yoi;q are! ! ! I '

Pllge 22 CONCORDlENSJS, April 21, 1988 PART TIME POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR STUDENT WORKERS MON. ,TUES., WED. 8:00PM- 12:30!\M ', SAT.~ SUN. ll:OO;AM- 4:00PM APPLY IN PERSO·N DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT WHERE THE HIP HANG! ANNOUNCING EXPRESSO AND CAPPUCCIN,Q AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT! .f• ' Special .Promotion Wednesday And Thursday Evenings 8:00- 10:00 PM Relax in a continental way __ with expresso and Italian pateries. -1>• ·- ·-- -...-.4: •• ARMY/NAVY SALE Date: April 25& 26 location: OLJtside Student Center Time: 9:00am to 5:30 pm Genuine U.S. and European surplus U.S. Canadian Colton Khaki Shirts, Shorts and Pants 5- $10 Genuine Issue Como Oe;,ert Tiger and Black Six-Pocket Pants________ __.,$20·27 Full-length Raincoats and trenchcoats______ ___$6- $15 U.S., British, Frenc;h and Italian Cotton Sorts_____ ...$4-$8 · Heavy Cotton West German and ' Dutch Six-Pocket Field Pants ___ , __________ $7--$15 Down feather Mummy Sleeping Bags $25-$30 World Flags, Bandannas, Hats, Cotton Tank Tops, Bags, and lots, lots morel! I leLKemia· O!lciety d ...,..;.,a, inc. ATTENTION CLU'B OFFICERS: Budget Proposals · for the 19 88-89 year ate due APRll 29 by 4:00 in Mrs. Marra's office ( C408) Contact your Finance Rep. lor the correct forms. Extras are available in Mrs. Marra's office. .·' .. Become Famous Arnong The New Students Next Year ..• Draw The Oesign for ORIENTATION T-SHIRTS The theme for Orientation '88 is \That's What I like About U\ Entlres are to be submitted to Box 1029 by May 4,1988 A prize will be awarded to the winner and the design will appear on approximately 125 T-shirtsl Sp0nsored by the Orientation Committee. BLATClirORDFHATRCHFORD BLATCHFORO BLATCHFORD BLATCHFORD . ORATORIAL ORATORICI\L ORATORiCAL ORATORICAL . CO}.'TEST COl\TEST COhiEST CO~'TE:S BLATCHFORD ORATORICAL CONTEST PRELIMINARY ROUNDS WEEK C)F MAY 2ND !!!!SIGN UP TOJ)AY!!! Display Your SkilJ At Oral Expression Friday, May 6- i pm 01d Chapel Applications are available at: 1) Science and Enbr:ineering Building, Room S-100 2) Library Circulation Desk 3) Student Affairs Office- College Center 711.e Time Is Now AND THE. CREDIT YOU·· D-ESERVE! $400 CASH FROM FORD AND PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT. - At Jack Byrne Ford and Mere. we know how hard~'ls tO get started finan- cially. So heres what we offer. If you've graduated, or will graduate. with a Bachelor's or advanced degree between October 1, 1987 arid Janu- ary 31, ,gag, you may qualify for $400 .from Fotdand pre-approved credit from Ford Motor Credit Com- pany. To qualify for pre-approved credit, you need: .(1) verifiable employment begilfling within 120 days afteryourvehicle purchase: · Ford Motor . (2) a salary sufficient to cover normal liVing el<penses plus a car payment: JACK BY Credit Company FORD & M,ERCUfiV and t3) if you have a credit record, it must indicate payment made as agreed. The $400 from Ford is yours whether you finance or not Ke;eP it or . apply it to the purchase o~ lease of an eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle. For all the details, contact us or call Program Headquarters,. toll free. at 1-800,321·1536. But hurry. This limited time offer is only available between March 1 and December 31. 1988. So take advan- tage of the Fbrd/Mercury College Grad~ate Purchase Program now. JCT. RTS. 4 & 32, MECHANICVILLE, NY'12118 PH. 664-9841 HOURS: MON. THUA THURS. 9 AM- 9 PM; FRI. 9 AM- 6PM; SAT. 9 AM- 5PM '! . .• .

CONCORDIENSJS, April 21, 1988 Page 23 Athlete of the Wee·k 'By DAVE MORIUSON Associate Sports Ellitor '-...._ 'Ibis week the Union College Lacrosse tea:m was on .a roller coaster ride when 1!lley won two games and lost two, making their present season record 4-5. They suffered their two losses at the hands of .nationally ranked teams in St. Lawrence (11 to 1) and Middlebury {8 to 6). Altbough losing those two games,-they beatSiena (14to 1) and Skidmore (11 to 3) playing quite impressively. much higher calibre such as · Middlebury, where he had three goals and an assist, and against . St. Lawrence where he had the lone goal of the game for Union. · Phil Horn is a seni:or Industrial Economics major from Bright Waters, N.Y. out of Bay Shore High ~chool. Horn has been an excepti()nal player ands.eorer thrc;~ughollt his Union career. lie has received star- ting nonors and a varsity letter in lacr()sse since he was a fresh~ miU!, and was named \Athlete oftbe Week\ in 1937. Hom also. spent two years .on the Union football team before dedicating himself to lacrosse. We commend and This week's \Athlete of the Week'', Phil Horn, demon- strated outstanding abilitY in all fourgarnes bys~oring a total of 12 gGals and 6 assists with an average of 3 goals per game on the week. More noteworthy is the ·fact that Hom should be recognized for his abilitY to p-roduce results for Union againSt teams that are of a Phil HerA #45 congratulate Phil Horn on his success and ability With Union lacrosse. We hope to see .him continue his success. In ad- dition, we wish Phil, and the · rest .of the lax players and coaches a ·great season. Shell Line ups Varsity Men's Heavyweight (4) Coach: Matt Hopkins , Cox: Meg Gorman Stroke: Stephen Listzwan Three: John Lovisolo Two: Cl=lris Wright Bow: Steve Hnat Varsity Men's Lightwf:ight {8) Coach: Matt Hopkins · Cox: Jade May Stroke:-Rob Stoppacher Three: Brett Bisset Two: Curt Butler · Bow: Mike Malik Women is Lightweight (8) Coach: Dave Gascoyne Cox: Chris Calvi Stroke: Julie Pattison Seven: Heather Feeley Six: Pam Kustas Five: Jeannie Haller Four: Tara Thomas Three: Tammy Tibbetts Two: Jill Reidy Bow: Teresa Sibenr ·ATTENTION: .Novice Men's Heavyweight (4) Coaclil: Chuck Lane Cox: A1:1in Khan Stro.ke: Evan Grace Thre~;~: Joe Byrne Two: colin Ingersoll . Bow: Tim German •• ;.;..;, \'7 •• Novice ~n·s Lightweight@) Coach: Chuck Lane Cox: Nancy Gonviser · Stroke: Mark Tillil'lghast Seven: Doug Cohen Six.: Mark Richter Five: Jordan Weiner Four: Mark Hojnowski Three: Dave lJrell Two: Ananth Mudgil Bow: Allen Foster worr~en's Varsity (4). Coach: Dave Gascoyne Cox: Paummi Heeder Stroke:Lynn Weinbaum Three: Anne Maubaussin Two: Laura Calvi Bow: Lisa Clark \ UNION EQUESTRIAN CLUB -, Old & New Members Great REDUCED· RATES for spring lesso.ns being offered< NOW! I CALL Chris '(4460) or Sharon (4281) for rate information CALL Peg Cannell at Ballybay Farm (861-8718) For Lesson Times <Enntnrll.tensis SPORTS W .t .. h A I , , · .. Perspective OnS:ports By ANDREW MILLER Sports Editor It's anyone's baby? 19R8 may just be the demise of the dynasties, and the rise of the rest. The NBA. has. turned into a run and gun free-for-all. The Lakers and Celtics, the perennial class of the league, are tottering on the edge of a downfall. Are the Celts and Ullters losing it, or iS the rest ·of the league finany improving? In the big picture it appears to be a little of bOth. But if you take a close look at the East coast- West coast leaders you find one team trying to hold onto the glory years, and another caught in the aftermath of a glorious. year. The Celtics (51)..22) are getting old! It is no secret that Parish is getting along in years and his playing days are limited. McHale has been hampered with injuries for the p.ast two seasons. He has Wldergone numerous operations on his ankles, and doctors feel another blow to his ri.ght ankle might jeopardize his ·playing career. Bird is hotter than ever! It seems the only thing that will take Larry Rird away from the game is Lar.ry Bird. The Bird- man feels lie has just about \done it all\ in the NBA. Money is no longer a concern. More than once this season Bird has hinted at a 1990 retirem&nt date, the year his contract expires. - So take a· look at the Green Machine. How many years are left for the Celtics to dominate the Eastern Conference? Ainge has many good years left in. his playground play, but you have to wonder if Auerbach has the magic to pull a new team out of thin air. i'h.e Celtics have always been a team to play for the present and plan for the future simultaneously. Len Bias was the Celtic of the future, the man to replace Larry Bird and carry on the tradition of the Green. But Bias, and the hopes -of Celtics fans everywhere went up in a puff of smoke one night shortly after he was drafted. Who will rise above the cluster of mediocre teams in the East to dethrone the Celtics? . Detroit always plays the Celtics tough. Without the home court advantage t:he bad boys from Motor ToWil bave an upward hill to climb. The ~ons, second in the East, seem to be the logical pick to upset the Celtics. Detroit has depth, spirit and is well c<lached. Last yearis 7·game thriller seems destined to be repeated. Will the outcome be the same? Only time will telL The rest of the East is a melee of medio.cre, one-dimensional teams. Don't get me wrong, Chicago, Atlanta and Milwaukee all h~ve possibility. It woUld take one of these teams to get hot, together, at the end of the ~eason and to roar into the playoffs with high confidence to tackle the rough playoff road ahead. As for the Knicks, I hope they live up to the bloated ex- pectations of their victory- starved fans. The Knick's are improving, shall we dare call them good, ·but they are not yet ready to compete in a 7-game series with the rest of the league. Now to the World Champion Los Angeles Lakers. What is happening to the run and gun, glamour and glitz boys from 'Tinseltown. The Lakers have · lost five in a row. They are slowly pulling then1selves down . and out of ·home court ad- . vantage for the entire playoffs. The Lakers are hurting. Magic is coming off an injury and appears tentative. Jabbar is 41 years old. The living legend is still a force but is slowing down considerably. Jabbar has droppped down in scoring output this season and is noticably absent in the Lakers' fast break, or follow-up attack. Michael Cooper was sidelined for 20 games. His return, April 5, was marked with erratic play and a loss of form from '87's championship year. Laker coach Pat Riley feels that, \The injuries gave the opponents the · sense that they can beat us. We've lost that aura of- in- vincibility.\ The Lakers are .playing in the shadow of the ''no-l'epeat curse.\ They play with the burden of having to prove themselves to every team each night. Everyone is gunning for L.A. Dallas, Denver, Portland, · Houston, Utah, and Seattle have all clinched .playoff bids. Dallas and Denver have played tough ballall season and are deserved of their mid ;600 records. But don't forget about Portland and Houston. Portland has given the Lakers fits allseason and shows signs of being a class team with depth. Houston has turned around after Ralph Sampson's departure and is putting together a coherent team. Olujuwan is playing with confidence and coach Bill Finch has the Rockets believing in themselves . .Although Portland and Houston could conceivably do battle in the first round it might just be the challenge one of the two teams has been ,waiting for to prove their worth. As the 'lUI regular season comes to a close, I leave with some words of advice. Don't be surprised to see a new name, or two, in the finals, and DON'T take roUnd one or two of the playoffs for granted. These will be ·the rounds where a true champion will emerge. Su,p.port U • n1on Sports -

,· I I I •'• ,,,,.. ~~~i .. \'\'\·'\\v.'·\Fo;;v,~>:•>:,':'\\-~ v i:\.'\'\-'~:~~'l( Kris Tierney leads the charge against Siena. Steady single hitting propelled the Lady Dra.gons to the 10-3 win. Union Lax on the m()ve: \After a 'tough fight, the 'Dutchmen bowed to Middlebtu~, 8-6. April 21·, 1988 Fan-tastic Feats and Facts By CARA TABACK Why, certainly I'd like to have a fellow who hits horne runs every time at bat, who strikes out every opposing batter when he's pitching, and'who is always thinking about two innings ahead. The only trouble is to get him to put down his cup of beer, come down out of tile stands and do those things. Da111ly Murtaugh · Pittsburgh Pirates manager Fan attendance is skyrocketing this year. Neither wicked wind, bitter cold nor gritty· dust storms can keep Union-faithfuls away. Huddled together they cheer loudly, flag down foul balls (hoping their cars are· far enough away), offer W1S01icited ideas to op- posing teams. This past week there was quite a bit to cbeer about as Union handed Skid- more their tenth loss of the year and RPI their first. Back to back home runs by senior Dave Anderson and Tim O'Leary, their first of the year, o highlighted the fourth inning ~ and led to a fifth inning full of c. LlJ run~ d single to center and a triple to right and catcher Rich Wolfe, with strong right-handed power to left, hita single and a double. Ken Horan pitched six of the quickest innings Union has seen all year, which also proved to be his own finest innings. He allowed only three hits, no walks, and one run in a most conunendable performance; the final score 22-2. The only puzzled one was the Starters Dave Anderson, Tim u. O'Leary, Tony Amarante little boy in the stands who (batting clean-u.P with 4 and 2 could not decide who to root for doubles), Scott Goldsmith - red or green, the colors of the racked up ten · hits and then two uniforms being his two passed the bat to pinch hitters favorite colors. who came through equally as Thursday, Central Park strong. looked lilte the wild west. Dust Freshman Matt Hoover's and dirt swirled around in triple to straight away center annoying circles. But the scored 2 runs. Evereready dynamic pitching combination Mark Callahan was 2 for 2, also of Tim Valachovic and Mark with 2 RBIS. Outfielder Ed Callahan led Union to a 14-5 win Whenlan came ill to poke a over undeafed RPI. Callahan .... · .... :, brought an abrapt halt to the lengthy game as he struck out 5 of the 6 batters he faced in reier, bringing his total to 17 strikeouts in 12 innings, and an ERAof1.33. Dave Anderson was, and continues to be unstoppable at the plate. He was 3 for 4 on the day as his average hovered around .540. Tony Amarante smacked a triple. to center, stole a base and batted in 5 runs. Ken Horan came alive. at 2 for 'l, with a shot to right for 2 bases. UTICA CLUB NOTES: First baseman Dan Klinger has withstood more than his fail- . share of being hit by pitches. In his frist appearances at the plate, on the first pitches he saw in both games, lle was beaned. Obviously opposing pitchers fail to realize that thls is out of $tyle this year in the major leagues~ havi,ng given way to the ubiquitous balk. (At this .rate, 1702 balks will be called this season as opposed to the 356 called last year) ... Norwich rained/snowed out last Saturday has not been rescheduled yet ... Union team batting average is .336, 56 points higher than our opponent's .•. Hitters over .400 include Tony ~arante, Tra(:!y Valachovic, Bill Brundige, Matt Hoover euid Dave Anderson ... Team ERA·is 4.19 versus opponent's 8.53 .•. Noticeably absent at these past two games, Buddy, was rwnored to be at tennis practice Middlebury away on Saturday ... All welcome at Central Park Tuesday as Union faces Division r Siena at 4:00 and Hamilton at home the 28tll, at3:00. ~\;<.· ~:· •'• . . ~ Siena Indian #20 \tomahawked\ first baser Kim Keller on a play that broke her arm last Thursday. The Lady Dutchmen, sent them back to the reservation, winning 1 0\;3 and avenging the injury. 'laxmen Bow to Nation's Top Ranked B.J! GR;EG GOOTZ The Union College me-.ll\ s lacrosse team faced tw-o nationally ranked teams l~st week &suffered two losses. l'hE Dutchiilen first bested Mi!l- dlebury, vrho must have play-ed a poor .gamE because they did not app~l\' to be the 7th rank:ed squad in tile nation in DiVision III - lacl\'.OSSE. A psched lip Union 1eam jlimped outrto a 2'-0 lead bef()l\'e Middlebury posted score~ The D1lt.()bmen fought hard to maintain a 4--3 led at halftirne. In the second half, · · Mid~ dleburyt s ()Verall depth WCJie Union dow11. The loss was ver:y dishearter~ing to the sq!]acd which plaJed so well and vritll such enthtJsiasm. In goal, J.olm Thorne· was outstanding arul registeretl 21 tough saves. Tile scoring vras led by Phil H€lill (3,1), Jolln Keller (2,0), P<Ete Cotier (1,~), Blake HendersO<n (0,1), Nick Baraoff (0,1), an...t Dave DeB~rdinis (0,1). On Sa1t.trday, the Dutchmen travelled far north to wintry St. Lawrence. H()wever, this highly-touted team plflyed up to its billing and <tefeated the weary Dutchmen 11-1. Horn contributed Union's only goal on an assist.fromKeller. Monday night, Union hosted Siena Colle~e on the wind· blasted turf, and the Dutchmen played their potential as the tcounced the hapless Indians 14-4. It WflS not a bust night for goalie .Jobrl Thome~ who turned away 4 out of onlY~ sho.ts by Siena. Phil Horn was a force . with 4 goals and. 5 assists te> pace Dutchmen. The defense hounded the Indians and was led by seniQr Greg Leahey, Gary Ceornick and Chuck Weber, and undErclassman Pat Lawson. The scoring was rounded out by a11 unselfish Len LaMonica (0,4), Keller (2,1) , Cotier (2,0), Baratoff (2,0), DeBardinis. (2,0), Henderson (1,1), and rookie Jon Garguile> (1,0). The Dutclunen's record now stands at 4--5 after a tough week. Roller Coaster . Week for Softball EySUSAN KERSCH - If anyone hasn't seen the softball team in action, Frl€1ay afternoon will .be a great OJ>- portunlty_ - This ;years team has corD· bined t;ast paced play with pwerful ·llffense. Coach Charlie Roberts ·said the team's hittiog as a unit is excellent and \'i1ii11l it wE can overcome my defense ,and weak umpires, ~rul any op!)osing team.\ The !)ast weeks games ea~ily demon::;hte this str.engtb. They st~u-ted with a 16-2 victoi'y over Siell!a. One ·team member said Ute score was the result .of \steady small, singles- thatall came at one time.\ Kl\'is Tiernay certainly helped .the:m out. Slle pitched a . conststant game alld'placed 4 strikeouts in the book. Altbou~h Kris Tierney cane thtoUgb with another str~ng showing; (.5 ERA) and the team turned ill a most memorabt1e triple pial, they lost 3-9. Errors and a .sJuiffling of the team did not help tile effort. Mter Kim Keller's UJl- fortunate injury at first, Joyce Witted has moved in from right to fill the void. The team has also (as much as they don •t want to admit it) missed Shelly Pino's natural ability and en· thusiam at second. The hitting was still there throughout. Missy madik doubled and Theresa Sanchez. tripled. Saturday, witil snow falling around them, Ullion faced RIT in a doubelheader. Losing the first game 5-cl, Union then regained . control to Win the second 8-6. Again their hitting rang . true. Becky Thayer and Kris Tierney hit2 for 3. Tierney alSo had 4 strikeouts. Colleen Dundon hit a triple in addition to her outstanding diving eaten in left. Julie Gallo led the team in stealing. Although se~eral players such as Jean Monaco and Kim Keller have almost perfect defensive averages ( .969 each); as a whale, tile team is suf- fereing defensively. If the team can stay away from defensive problems, Robert$ believes that \if we just keep, our bats going we can do anything.\

' i l • 1877 CXVIJ, No. 22 April 28, 1988 Unlon Students · TraveJ to Asheville for . . Und·erg.raduate . Research Conference Former CIA Director Scheduled to Speak for Parents' Weekend By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. By SCOTT ADAMS This past weekend, 20 Union students travelE!d with / . P~nelists .Professor Lewis, Aaron .carrel .• Professor Hayes, Michael H1ller and Professor Warde d1scuss 1ssues .of Gel-Time. Adin.iral Stansfield Turner, the former Naval officer and director of the Central In- telligence Agency, has been secured as the major speaker for Parents' We.ekend Thur- sday, May 6, 7, and 8. Turner plans to discuss \Trends in Wor-ld Affairs\ in his May 6 Professors Dwight Phaup and David Peak to the University of North Carolina, Asheville to give presentations on their work at the second National Conference on Undergraduate Research. · The 20 students who went this year ·were Dave Gascoyne, Dave t;;reenlaw, Sing-Yun Lee, Alan DeSalvio, Jospeh Jordan, Andrew Livernois, Stuart Pratt, Nicholas Mroczka, Deborah Hermance, Louis Schick, Maura Carta, Robert Luntz, Kate Kaufman, Zoltan Egyed, Marc The Conference served as a great opportunity for them to gain recognition for projects they had spent many hours of work on. Gel-.Time Debated at Faculty Panel Discussion By STEPHANIE JARYNA schools which implemented the trimester system he believes · The issue primarily discussed that Gel Time is a logical was Gel Time when ap- change for Union. proximately thirty members of However, Hiller was qUick to the college collllnunity attended add that, ''Gel 'i'ime does not the Student Faculty Panel . fulfill· goals intend~d for the Discussion hosted by the students (to promoie an at- address. · ~ Turner served in the Navy upon graduation from An· napolis in 1946. His career was interrupted only when he at- tended Oxford University as a · Rh()des Scholar, and when he assumed his duties at the CIA in 1977. In the Navy, Turner Turner plans to discuss 'Trends in World Affairs' in his May 6 address. Student Forum on Tuesday. mosplle:re conducive to · A paneh>ttwo·Studen:t-ForUITi. . aeademi.:a); !' he . .credited ~-the--. . ~erved . .a~. a,. ReA~ Awrural members, Aaron Carrel and system as being counter Co.llliilander of a Carrier Task MichaelHillerandthreefaculty productive in the way in which Group (in the Mediterran.e~), members Professor LewiS, study time is organized and President of the Naval War Professor Warde and Professor cited statistics of the. Student College, and in 1975, · upon Hayes fielded questions and Forwn-Gel Time survey of the promotion to Admiral, was prompted disscusion for an students in the Winter Term to named Commander-in..cbief of hour as the students and.faculty · back up. his argument. the NATO Southern Flank, members present had an op- David Cohen, Student_ Forum based in Naples, Italy. portnnityto voice what they felt member, questioned if the The Admiral headed the was the \base\ of the Gel Time combination of Gel Time and Intelligence Community and Drew, Jim Poirer, John disco-ntent among the College the new General Education the CIA under the Jimmy Glliilillings, Kim Silvers, Beth Community. Proposal to he implemented to Carter administration. He held Friere, andJonne McAndrews. Professor Lewis began with the incoming classes would his post there from March of rhe conference, which had the opening, \I think Gel Time result in pandemonium with the · 1977 until January, 1981, at 500 representatives from 130 for the most part is a good transition. Professor Warde, which point President Carter schoo.ls last year., e:q~anded tWng.\ Having been at three See STUD.ENT FORUM, p. 3 presentedhimwiththeNational dralliatically this year as J100 _____ ,...,.. ___________________ _;__.;____ Security Medal. students from 180 Schools were . s U· NYA s.t·u·.d·e· n· ·t-·.P:J·e·d.· ·g· .·.e· Turner is also a published on hand. While the majority of author. His book, Secrecy and the presentations concerned Democracy (Houghton-Mifflin, research in the sciences, the Kt\ ·1·1·ed . 1 ·n. F r•ate r n ity Stu nt 1985 ), discusses the problems conference is open to students in all fields of study. For the Union students who went, the conference served as a great opportunity for them to See CONFERENCE, pg. 3 ..Qy ELISE F'OODY and the Albany Co'iinty coroner As~;~ociate News Editor arrived on the scene within fi\\,e College fraternities nationwide · . minutes, but their efforts to have been receiving save him were in vain. The two discouraging. media attention students who initia:Qy tried to concerning various pledge help Higgins were identified as activities. Last week a tragic Scott Payne and Vincent incident hit close to home. Mancino, and were listed in ld B · Hi · stable condition. University Twenty-year 0 · nan · ggms, officials declined to confirm a sophomore pledge at a · fraternity at the state that the three belonged to a University at Albany was fraternity, although local press electrocuted during a fraternity sourc.es reported that the three exploit. were affiliated with Tau Kappa Higgins was urged by Epsilon. The electric current in members of the fraternity at the pond is believed to have emanated from a .university- ·. This in.cident is the ·second Greek-oriented · incident a·t SUNY•Aibany this term. which he was a pledge to wade into a campus pond known as · Indian Pond at about 6:15last Thursday evening. Un- beknownst tQ Higgins and his friends, there was an electric . current running through the icy, concrete-bottomed pond. operated electrically powered pumphouse. Physical plant employees at the school have indicated that there .appeared to have been no . clear malfunction and campus . security have been guarding the pond overnight. To date, no charges have.been filed; against the university. This incident is the second Greek-oriented incident at SUNY Albany this term. the intelligence .agency must confr()nt in an open society. Turner is on the Editorial board for the International Security and Naval forces .Magazines as Admir. Stansfield Turner to speak during Parents' Weekend. well. Tickets for Turner's speech will cost three dDllars each, and are on sale at the Campus Center box office. The speech will be held in Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. In addition to Turner, the Forwn plans to bring John Stockwell, a former top-level CIA of(icer and a critic of the agency's activities, to Union on May 17,-at 7:30, with a tentative location in the Campus Center. The securing of Turner for Parents' Weekend marks the end of a long, hard road of work for the Speaker's Forum. This year has been a particularly difficult one for the group, as they have had to deal with several cancellations and, therefore, had to work con- tinually on short notice. ·co ·0 '\\·tl ~ Despite attempts by two friends to revitalize him, Higgins was pronounced dead on arrival at Memorial Hospital at around 7:30. Campus police · Allegedly, a hazing incident took place at Sigma Delta Tau Sorority that involved a pledge from a Union CoRege frater- nity. The SDT house was sub- seqilently removed from campus for not complying with the investigation . Phcto of the Week: The Idol assumes tile character of a Bengal tiger· as Rich Romer heads for Cincinatti. See article p. 20. ,• •• ,J ',1 J J • • • •• • ' ... ,. ... ~ ~\ ... 4~:.,·_·_._, ·' ~-l )··,' ~ l.)l ')·~·}· •• # ·, •• ,. ..... _ I.

. I Page 2 CONCORDIENSis, Aiirii 28; I!J~8 0~ ·~· ··.~· ··@ Dukakis vs. ·Bush- It Could Be .a Pretty Dull Campaign By ALEX GARDNER What comes to mind when you hear the names Dukaltis and Bush? To many observers the words d111l, boring, blah, uninspiring and passionless are instant reauions. Dukakis and Bush-. have continuously been told to liven up their acts, particularly at the times wtu~n their respective stronghQlds on the nominations were in dcn.lbt. Goerge Bush, in the eight days between Iowa and New Hampshire, was criticized for saying nothing interesting (except for gaffes) while Michael Dukakis in. the 10 ·days between Michigan and Wi,scon&in, was urged anguishedly to inject some emotion in his Speeches. Their handlers. put them in places designed to suggest passion: Bush in the driver's seat of an lS..wheeler in a New Hampshire truck stop and Dukakis in s'outh Milwaukee's home of wedding and bowling, Serb Hall. But the fact is that these are dull guys. In the Pl~yful Pandas on Tour NEWS ANALYSIS clutch in New Hampslute and Wisconsin they had the good sense to stay dull. They seem to understand that the voters are not lot)king .for a great savitlur w:ho will change American society and the world, but for a guy who will fix the small problems that arise without changing the $tatus .quo. Doesthis mean that no longer are the voters lo{)king for a p!lssionate, emotional can- didate? There . is ,strong evidence that the people want someone re.asonably competent to attend to the bormg and distasteful business of running the government. It no longer seems as important to look and act presidential. In fact, the voters have chosen the man who will threaten the status .quo the least. The next President of the United States -may not stir excitement in the audiences, but he will be one whose em~ phasized experience arid managerial $kills have offered the voters a man who they would choose to manage th~ir American relations is fuzzily termed \panda diplomacy.\ company, if not to star in their favorite movie. Today the passionate oratQry of .Jesse Jackson and even the shetlpish-grin cadences. of . P~t Robert$0n arouse fear in more Americans than enthusiasm. Jackson and RObertsOn can get their enthusiastic supporters to It is certain that our next President wiU not resemble a pr~acher Qr an actor in his rhetoric or · in his style. caucuses in large nUI'nbevs and Win. startling victories there. But in primaries, Where turnout is larger and more represen- tative of the total population, Robertson had little success and Jackson has had less . success than he has had in caucuses. If nothing else it is c_ertain that our next president will not resemble a preacher or an actor ·in his rhetoric or in his style. Governor Michael Dukakis hqpes · his reasonabl~sounding talk about partnerships among gQvernJP,ent, business and labor- a kind -of technocracy with a human face- has appeal to enough of the voters. Vice President Bush is hoping the country Will make a simpler calculation: that they are doing well enough to vote for four more years 9f Republicanism. 'l'hat, in fact, ~ill be the real ground of the election for all groups. Virtually all the poll$ suggest a country tom between a sense of modest, though not universal, comfort with the present and anxiety about the future. It wants change but not '.risk. . After eight years with an elderly former actor as our President, it seems we yearn for one who may not always make us feel good but will be unquestioningly competent at his job of rwming our govern:- ment. panda population did not sur• Wildlife Fund and the Inter- vive. national Union for the Con- The issue in the diplomacy of . servation of Nature .. These pandas is the loaning of them to groups argue th~t China has not U.S. zoos by the Chinese taken adequate measures to government. WaShington, DC, insure ·the ·survival of the Mexico City, and Tokyo each pandas. They point out that have exhibits of \permanent having pandas '~on tour\ hin· pandas.\ The National ders the breeding and research ZoologicaJ. Park in Washington programs going on in China. houses the two pandas given to Sbme claim that the panda the U.S. following Nixon's trip, population has definitely Qy DANIELJ. KENIRY Associate News Editor First it was the phrase ''ping- pong diploma«!y\ that described the United states relationship The last census of giant pandas (nobody' s that excited about red, or lesser, pandas ... they don't look as good on postcards and the kids probably think they're ugly) was-taken in the mid 1970's. It concluded. the total number in the world at approximately 1,000. Giant pandas live primarily in South- western China and Eastern with China. This refered to the Tibet (in Chinese government only contact· Americans had control). The real problem, with Mao-tse Tung's China though, is not who controls the prior to President Nixon's territory where the pandaf! live, opening in 1972- professional for they are generally apolitical ping-pong players. Now the new creatures, and th:us, hospitable. issue e:merging in Sino- The problem is their fussy diet; --------------------------- . · they-preferonly-two Species of·· Ling-Ling and Ching-Ching. declined, and the Chinese Other cities' zoos receive the program of bredding the bears on loan from China, with creatures is deficient. (This last the Chinese receiving a nice argument is easily disproved, little stipend of $300,000 for a 3- see above discussion of panda month loan. New York City, San diet.) · Diego, and Tampa each The Calgary Zoo, attempting recently had loans. . to get, a pair of pandas for the -No-big deal;. Fight? American, •.Olympic-$,·· -enco:unte.::ed a kids have their breath taken situatio.n that exemplifies the away- by·:tb~ <;uddly creature$;:·: ·~pr-:Qblem: Calgary )Vps.told they Democrats· ,.Party in the Truest Sense By ADAMGAHTAN The Democratic Party is not over quite yet but only few remain in the room, sitting at · the bar, talking over the evening's e~ents .. · . This year's Party was· a blowout. Unfortunately for some in attendance, that ad jective might describe their perfonnance as well. , There is talk among some that perllaps too many in· vitations were mailed this year. Some were here who just weren't ready to Party. They hung around, trying desperately to fit in, and generally sl()wing things down. Faux pas aboWided. Senator Simon sported a bowtie, clearly overlookingtlle evening's dress- code. · Senator Hart, who wiU be remembered from the last Party, showed Up with his wife, And a date. The hosts did not tolerate this and he was pressured into _leaving the Party early. He was also reminded that the caterers decide the menu, and Rice was not on it this year. ' Hart's early exit was a great relief to many,. Quite possibly the ice-breaker. People began to loosen up, to talk mo~;e openly. However, most had nothing new to say and merely echoe<i the sentiments and concerns of the past. This was especially true of Senator Biden. However, he echoed the sentiments and concerns of somebody else's past. For this, he., too, was asked to leave, and is now bidin' his time elsewhere. A knock at the door. Senator Hart is sorry he .offended, and · could he please come back in? This raised a few eyebrows, but, after all, who were they to deny him. Meanwhile, Governor Michael Dukakis had drawn a respectable · crowd to himself, and they listened intently to stories of his adventures· and successes m The Bay State. The Reverend Jesse Jackson was doing divinely. Some were amazed with his aura and presence. Some were amazed JOIN US1AT THE 'HJL0£0Phl7 tABLE Come have lunch with students, professors, and ·others interested in phi.losophy on Wednesdays ·. at 12:30 at the College Center Community Table. You can use your meal card. We'll talk about ... whatever. · bamboo. But every one hWidred . years or·®, the-bamboo plants pr()duce seeds and then die. It then takes several years for more plants to grow. This horrific event (for pandas, at least) took place in the 1970's. Chinese scientists estimated in 1980 that one-quarter of the they never- forget the ex- would receive. an' 11 year old pedence, and the Chinese have female and a 14 year old male. a little experiment · in The zoo objected to this, ap- capitalism. Further, there is parently saying that they would publicity for the plight of the rather hav~ younger pandas panda, encoure~ging do~ations. who had not yet reached sexual Not so, according to the Wodd maturity and were therefore · Wlable to breed. The Chinese ---------------------....------...... responded t}lat these particular simply that he was present. His 'lbe :New York Prim4I'Y was ~. animals had never reproduced name dropping last Party had full of Gore. Unfortunately for and were sunply non-breeders~ lost him a few supporter~, the the Senator from the South, the The Calgary Zoo continued its comon consen:sus being that results proVided plenty of it for protest ana China gave in, while politics does. in fact, him as well. . sendine two immature females. breed .strange· bedfellows, the So, as the band fades out witn The issue still remains up in ··likes of Farrakhan, Castro and ''Hail to the Chief,\ two men sit the air. Are these pandas better Arafat ought not to make it at the bar, squeezing whatever off in China or better off en~ through the front door. they can from the last bottle of tertaining the schoolchildren of The life of the Party was America? Compromise on a:ll slowly dying out. i~ very Hart sides is in order. The Chinese would be by-passed once again should consider their com- this year. It had gotten a little Conversation shifted to · mitment to the continuance of late for Babbitt, Simon and the Empire State and in · the species. American zoos can Gepbardt, and they politely was remarked that its . consider other ways to gain thanked the hosts andheaded to Governor bad refused his · publicity for themselves and for their respectiYe homes. They invitation. · pandas. And the pandas should left before the main course; just consider their diets sex lives not hungry .enough~ and where they want to live. Conversation shifted to the Empire State and it was remarked) again, that its governor had ·refused his in- vitation. Rumor stilFhad it that he might crash tile Party late, but the candidates hoped he would conform to the accepted social graces. Delegate-lulce, eact1 trying to drink the other under the table. One man will make it to the floor (of the convention), the other wUl collapse on it. For the latter, well: It's your Party; you may cry if yQu want to. · rfe. f'U st. tCA N PoS\'SIIlLY ltiE ·NtxT Lt..,UE.-R ·OF' THE FREa Wor:l~ A MA w'\:rl\ AN IM?ftt:SS 1\Je. RiS'vM\ t:XPER!Et-rcE\ IN G oVERto~EriT, Only News makes the .Front Page Write .for the News Desk - Call Beck, x4416; Elise, X4405; Dan, X4484. t11'lt> .. _ .. AM\ ~ESt A LO:V.L. ~~-......._-..,--.:..,..-..--l . ,.PR'ES.\ oEr·iTIAl- I~N!...:=D~M...,!_:Il..:..,N;_E.-=£:..:...:· ·..!...:· ._,__,_. • ~l:'-'-\-\W-\...1<0.,~--_,li ... w lrHoVfwH oM ..... ~- E ~ \I t a s ( i, r t i; t t r t t . b 1: Il 6 Il 1 a n s t:

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, April 28, 1988 ~ ........_..,--\'- ~ gj Dukakis vs. Bush- It Could Be a Pretty Dull Campaign By ALEX GARDNER What comes to mind when you hear the 11ames Dukakis and Bush? To many observers the words dull, boring, blah, uninspiring .and passionless are instant reactions. Dukakis and Bush have continuously been told to liven up their acts, particularly at the times whe!l their respective strongholds on the nominatioas were in do11bt. Goerge Bush, in the eight days between Iowa and New Hampshire, was By DANIEL J. KENIRY Associate News Editor Fil\st it w~s the phrase \ping- pong diplomacy'' that described the United States relationship criticized for saying nothing interesting (except for gaffes) while Michael Dukakis in the 10 days between Michigan and Wisconsin, was urged anguishedly to inject some emotion in his speeches. Their handlers put them in places designed to suggest passion: Bush in the driver's seat of an 18-wheeler in a New Hampshire truck stop and Dukakis in 8outh Milwaukee's home of wedding and bowling, Serb Hall. But the fact is that these are dull guys. In the Playful Pandas on Tour with China. This refered to the only contact Americans had with Mao-tse Tung's China prior to President Nixon's opening in 1972- professional ping-pong players. Now the new issue emerging in Sino- Democrats \Party in the Truest Sense By ADAM GAHTAN The Dem()cratic Party is not over quite yet but only few remain in the room, sitting at the bar, talking over the evening's events. This year's Party was a blowout. Unfortunately for some in attendance, that ad jective might describe their performance as well. There is talk among some that perhaps too many in- vitations were mailed this year. Some we!\e here who just weren't ready to Party. They hung around, trying desperately to fit in, and generally slowing things down. Faux pas abounded. Senator Simon spor-ted a bowtie, clearly overlooking the evening's dress- code. Senator Hart, who will be remembered from the last Party, showed up with his wife. And a date. The hosts did not tolerate this and he was pressured into leaving the Party early. He was also reminded that the caterers decide the menu, and Rice was not on it this year. Hart's early exit was a great relief to many. Quite possibly the ice-breaker. People began to loosen up, to talk more openly. However, most had nothing new to say and merely echoed the sentiments and concerns of the past. This was especially true of Senator Biden. However, he echoed the sentiments and concerns of somebody else's past. For this, he, too, was asked to leave, and is now bidin' his time elsewhere. A knock at the door. Senator Hart is sorry he offended, and could he please come back in? This raised a few eyebrows, but, after all, who were they to deny him. Meanwhile, Governor Michael Dukakis had drawn a respectable crowd to himself, and they listened intently to stories of his adventures and successes in The Bay State. The Reverend Jesse Jackson was doing divinely. Some were amazed with his aura and presence. Some were amazed JOIN US AT THE tABLE Come have lunch with students, professors, and others interested in philosophy on Wednesdays at 12 :30 at the College Center Community Table. You can use your meal card. We'll talk about ... whatever. NEWS ANALYSIS clutch in New Hampslure and Wisconsin they had the good sense to stay dull. They seem to understand that the voters are not looking for a great saviour who wHl change American society and the world, but for a guy who will fix the small problems that arise without changing the status quo. Does this mean that no longer- are the vaters looking for a passionate, emotional can- didate? There is strong evidence that the people want someone reasenably competent to attend ta the boring and. distasteful business of running the government. It no longer- seems as important to look and act presideatial. In fact, the voters have chosen the man WhD will threaten the status quo the least. The next President of the United States -may not stil\ excitement in the audiences, but he will be one wllose em- phasized experience and managerial skills have offered the voters a man who they would choose lo manage their- American relations is fuzzily termed \panda diplomacy.\ The last census of giant pandas (nobody's that excited about red, or lesser, pandas ... they don't look as good on postcards and the kids probably think they're ugly) was taken in the mid 1970's. It concluded the total number in the world at approximately 1,000. Giant pandas live primarily in South- western China and Eastern Tibet (in Chinese government control). The real problem, though, is not who controls the territory where the pandas live, for they are genei.\ally apolitical creatures, and thus, hospitable. The problem is their fussy diet; they prefer only two species of bamboo. But every one hundred years or so·, the bamboo plants produce seeds and then die. It then takes several years for more plants to grow. This horrific event (for pandas, at least) took place in the 1970's. Chinese scientists estimated in 1980 that one-quarter of the simply that he was present. His 11ame dropping last Party had lost him a few supporters, the comon consensus being that while politics does, in fact, breed strange bedfellows, the likes of Farrakhan, Castro and AI.\afat ought not to make it through the front door. The life of the Party was slowly dying out. its very Hart would be by-passed once again this year. It had gotten a little late for Babbitt, Simon and Gephardt, and they politely thanked the hosts and headed to their respective homes. They left beforethemain course; just not hungry enough. Conversation shifted to the Empire State and it was I.\emarked again, that its governor had refused his in· vltation. Rwnor stilfhad it that he might crash the Party late, but the candidates hoped he would conform to the accepted social graces. company, if not to star in their favorite movie. Today the passionate oratory of Jesse Jackson and even the sheepish-grin cadences of Pat Robertson arouse fear in more Americans than enthusiasm. Jackson and Robertson can get their enthusiastic supporters to It is certain that our next President wHI not resemble a preacher or an actor in his rhetoric or · in his style. caucuses in large numbers and win startling victories there. But in primaries, where turnout is larger and more represen- tative of the total population, Robertson had little success and Jackson has had less success than he has had in caucuses. If nothing else it is certain that our next president will not panda population did aot sur- vive. The issue in the diplomacy of pandas is the loaning of them to U.S. zoos by the Chinese government. Washington, DC, Mexico City, and Tokyo each have exhibits of \permanent pandas.\ The National Zoological Park in Washington houses the two pandas given to the U.S. following Nixon's trip, Ling-Ling and Ching-Ching. Other cities' zoos receive the bears on loan from China, with the Chinese receiving a nice little stipend of $300,000 for a 3- monthloan. New York City, San Diego, and Tampa each recently had loans. No big deal, right? American kids have their breath taken away by the cuddly creatures, they never forget the ex- perience, and the Chinese have a little experiment in capitalism. Further, there is publicity for the plight of the panda, encouraging donations. Not so, according to the World The New York Primary was full of Gore. Unfortunately for the Senator from the South, the results provided plenty of it for him as well. So. as the band fades out with \Hail to the Chief,\ two men sit at the bar, squeezing whatever they can from the last bottle of Conversation shifted to the Empire State and in was remarked that its Governor had refused his invitation. Delegate-juice, each trying to drink the other under the table. One man will make it to the floor (of the convention), the other will collapse on it. For the latter, well: It's your Party, you may cry if you want to. resemble a preacher or an actor in his rhetoric or in his style. Governor Michael Dukakis hopes his reasonable-sounding talk about partnerships among government, business and labor- a kind of technocracy with a human .face- has appeal to enough of the voters. Vice President Bush is heping the country will make a simpler calculation: that they are deing well enough to vote fer four more years ef Republicanism. That, in fact, will be the real ground af the election for all groups. Virtually all the polls suggest a country torn between a sense of modest, though not universal, comfort with the present and anxiety about the future. It wants change but not risk. After eight years with an elderly former actor as our President, it seems we yearn for one who may not always make us feel good but will be unquestioningly competent at his job of rwming oW' govern- ment. Wildlife FWld and the Inter- natienal Union for the Con- servation of Nature. These groups argue that China has not taken adequate measures to insure the survival of tile pandas. They point out that having pandas \on tour\ hin- ders the breeding and research programs going on in China. SOme claim that the panda population has definitely declined, and the Chinese program of bredding the creatures is deficient. (This last argument is easily disproved, see above discussion of panda diet.) The Calgary Zoo, attempting to get, a pair of pandas for the . Olympics, encountered a situation that exemplifies the problem. Calgary was told they would receive an 11 year old female and a 14 year old male. The zoo objected to this, ap- parently saying that they would rather have yoWiger pandas who had not yet reached sexual maturity and were therefore unable to breed. The Chinese responded that these particular animals had never reproduced and were simply non-breeders. The Calgary Zoo continued its protest and- China gave in, sendine two immature females. The issue still remains up in the air. Are these pandas better off in China or better off en- tertaining the schoolchildren of America? Compromise on all sides is in order. The Chinese should consider their com- mitment to the continuance of the species. American zoos can consider other ways to gain publicity for themselves and for pandas. And the pandas should consider their diets sex lives and where they want to live. Only News makes the Front Page Write for the News Desk - Call Beck, x4416; Elise, x4405; Dan, x4484. r:X'Pff{IEt-JcF 1N G oVcRMtriT, Awi) .... AA\\ Yes!, A Lo'V.L. fi'E~VsUCAN -r-----------1· PRE5l DENT!AL tNE

CONCORDIE.NSJS, April 28, 198.8 Page 3 Student Forum Meeting Opens Lines of Student- Faculty Communication C~lltlnued .from page 1 Chairman of the Academic Affairs Council answered that thE ;transition would probably .re:sult .in minimal 'side effects' C()nsideringthat the newG.E.B. pr-oposal would only effec:t 25% o£ the stu~ent body and tllat the p~Coposal is four years in the working!jl . and .therefore, all predictable problems .sbould be irmed aut. Pernaps one of the most elllightening comments of the afternoon came from Aaron Carrel, Stud€mt Forum Vice Pre:sident of Academic Affairs. Carrel attempted to portray the idea to those present tllat Gel Time problems result from perscmal problems with ·cnan,ge and •()f one's opinion of change. \ He encouraged all to strive to\Var'd looking at Gel 'l'i.me in an - llbjective ratber tllan a subjective nuumet. . Pr.Gfessor Nichols broke tlle. Gel Time situation into two issu.es. One of an academic n~ture, concerned with how the teaching and learning process is faring and a second iss11e- of how the students use theii' free time. Overall, Professor Nichols found the new sclledule to bE. beneficial to the f<»rmat of his p()litical sciences classes. A question was raised as to . how classes are split into. bloc:ks. Which ones fair lletter meeting three times a w~ek: for 65lnlntues and which fair !Jetter meeting only twice a week for 100 n'i.intues? Professor Hayes aclmowledged tba:t there are not enough short slots in tbe syst-Em and this lead to tlle poiJlt that it is the belief of some that • ·.·• - . I ' Gel Time is: better time schedule for some subjects, especially those in the Humanities and the SoCial Sciences. Professor Klein questioned, \'Why is there such strong resistance'' to Gel Time. Is it perhaps because students' grades are falling,. or is it that they are concerned that the amount of learning material lessening, or a resistance due to the Joss over the midweek weekend. In closing, Professor Lewis encouraged everyone to shift toward an academic at- mosphere •Gel Time is not a crucial issue. Professor Hayes stated that the A.A.C. \con· sciously .put Gel Time on the back burner,\ due to the other pressing aeadentic issues currently going on at Union. He anticipates there will be a thorough review of Gel Time on the 1988-89 school year from the A.A.C. One must applaud the effort of the StudentForumto improve the student..;faculty relations through open lines of' com- munication. The panel discussion evidently was an example that open lines of communications do exist between faculty and students; however, one must question if those present were intent on listening to the points and opinions of others as readily as they were to express th~ir own. One must sincerely doubt that . anyone left the panel having · changed his or her beliefs of tlle attributes and disadvantages of Gel Time. Student Forum Elections Frid.ay May 6, 1988 Pick up petiti-ons, in Mrs. Marra's office, Tbu.rsday Apr_il21, 1988. Petitions du.e in M·l'S. Marra's office Mo11day M'ay 2, 1988. · Student Forum Ptesident . V.P. Administration V.P. Finance · V.P. Academic Affairs :Kepreserttative .to' the Board of Trustees di~~~~~~:.=:'l=~.::;ol'hoimor·e,Junior, Senior Class Representatives Advisor- Advisee System if ~ Faces Mixed ~ .·~· Reviews . 0. ·t;. :r By TAMRA 'l'mBETI'S a,. Will the tennis courts possibly seca<le ·to the expansion of the library? In a random survey on the faculty-advisor . system, comments ranged from, \It's a waste,\ to, \I love my advisor; I don't know what I'd do. without College Prepares for Future ·campus ·Construction and Renovation By ELIZABETH BERLINER • her.\ Advice which may help make the most of the college . years seem limited by the luck of the draw. which promn.ted the recent The system itself has few change to compact shelving in problems. It is based on the idea Rumors have been cir- the basement. Finally, con- that every professor knows, culating throughout the campus sultation with library con- when hired, that advising ' thiit tennis buffs. may be served sultants and planning ar- students is part of the workload. a great injustice as Schaffer chitects will finish ou.t the Incoming freshmen are · Library seeks area for ex- process. The end result from all assigned advisors by the pansion. To further complicate research will be compiled in a chairman of the department in • the issue, oth~rs go on to report document consisting of their designated interest • that the parking lot behind diagrams, site plans, and Changing advisors is a simplt Richmond will be converted to ultimate recommendations. process both within a depart- the new tennis courts, resulting ment and among others. in a worsening of the already One strongly supported option Registrar Dwight Wolf said, cramped parking situation. But has been to combine the ser- \Ideally there wouldn't be befqre the wrath of Union vices of the library with those of uninterested faculty,'' but there students becomes too incensed, tile audio-visual department are professors. who are more perhaps a clearer explanation and the computer center. The interested in their field of study ofthe facts is in order. inclusion of all of these services than in spending time witll their Dr. D'Andrea is chairman of into a \Learning Resource advisees. the Program Planning Com- Center\ would increase student A concern that has been mittee, designed to investigate usage and allow easier access raised at other college cam- means for increasing the fttr interacting benefits. This puses like Union's according to functional capacity of the would also allow for un- the Intercollegiate Press, is the library. At this time, several - derground expansion in that faculty's awareness of the suggestions have been s11.ch equipment functions technical aspects of a<;lvising. evaluated as to where the better in an environment that Procedures such as the facility may expand, but it is has an easily controlled at- pass/fail option withdrawal, vital to note that all of these are rnosphere. and pre-registration are only in the preliminary stage. The committee hopes to be complicated and hinge on The cotnmittee is composed finished with its document of deadlines; situations where a of faculty, students, ad- recommendation directly after student's choices are restricted .mjll_i~trators, an.d .. Uprarians C()mmenc-ement. This will allow · by limited advice is a problem and is presently conducting a Pr-esident Morliis sufficient that the faculty, here, are .at- . ·needs1a~e8$ment.of the library time~fio ~onsld~r its options ~na · \::tempting ~ ·.~to; · ci.rcUII)vent. in search of the' -best possible employ 4 ail architectual' firm ' Fac.ulty have .flee~ sent t~ ~he functional arrangement to. be before fall term. Therefore, it National Acaderruc Advtsmg utilized in the available space. appears that, once again, Union Conference in an attempt to The Schaffer staff has alse done will be continuing its trend of educate f~llow facult,r mem- extended studies regarding its eternal construction and hers. Notices of policy and ow11 special needs, some of · renovation. changes in policy are constantly ------------------------- brought to the advisor's at- Students Gain Recognition at Southern Research Conference Continued from page 1 gain recognition for projects they had spent many hours of work on-work that in many cases was not for college credit. According to Professor Peak, \the point of the conference is to encourage research and presentations .of research from all fields of undergraduate study.\ · The students involved- are split up according to their discipline of study and met in small sessions, giving 10-15 mi11ute talks each. Peak was impressed with the quantity and quality of Union. stude!its involved in the event. The Umon group was the second largest on band and was particularly smooth in their verbal skills. While last year the presen- tations were judged, this year they were not. According to · · Maura Carla, that turned out to 'be an advantage that made the conference more successful. '\It's a lot better because it transfers the emphasis. Instead of being pressure-filled, the presentations were more relaxed. They were done not for the sake of competition, but for the sake of the research itself.\ Professor Peak hopes that interest in the conference will remain strong. Indeed be has every right to; in 1990, it's debut in the northeast will take place right here at Union. Next year it will be held at Trinity College in San Antonio, Texas. Attention Club Officers: Budget Pr.oposals are due This Friday April 29 . by 4:00 in Rm. 408 c.c. Extra forms are available in Mrs. Marra's office tention. A solution offered at other colleges has been to only have those· faculty interested in advising become advisors. · Nevertheless, an obvious problem in numbers exists; there are approximately 150 faculty and more· than 2000 students in attendance. · · 'I'he two year old procedure of requiring the advisor's signature on a pre-registration form was established by the faculty in an effort to make sure students consult their advisors about courses. The purpose of this procedure is to bring faculty and students together. Associate Dean of Un- dergraduate Studies William Daniels admits, ''These meetings are not a p~nace~,\ but they are a starting pomt which can lead to an important relationship. Assistant Professor Ruth Stevenson said, \Any personal contact is beneficial to both students and facUlty.\ She added that it serves as a backup to the advising system in that ~t pushes students to see the1r advisors. Certainly there are loopholes and all papers are not signed, but it is entirely to the student's benefit to establish contact. Professor Peter Tobiessen commented that it can he an enjoyable experience for the professor if the student is serious and allows the faculty member to broaden bis or her background by suggesting courses which reach across the wide range of curriculum. For a good relationship, both parties must involve themselves with the other.

CONCORDIENSIS, April 28, 1988 Student Forum Meeting Opens Lines of Student- Faculty Communication Continued from page 1 Chairman of the Academic Affairs Counci:l answered that the transition would probably result in minimal 'side effects' considering that the 11ew G .E.B. proposal would only effect 25% of the student body alld that the proposal is four years in the working~ and therefore, all predictable problems should be ironed out. Perhaps one of the most enHghtening comments of the afternoon came from Aaron Carrel, Student Forwn Vice President of Academic Mfairs. Ca:rrel attempted to portray the idea to those present that Gel Time problems result frem personal problems with change and of ()ne's opinion of change. He enC()uraged an to strive toward 'looking at Gel Time in an objective rather than a subjective manner. Professor Nichols broke the Gel Time situation into two issues. One of an academic nature, concerned with how the teaching and learniag process is faring and a second issue of how the students use their free time. Overall, Professor Nichols found the new schedule to be beneficial to the fermat of his political sciences classes. A question was raised as to how classes are split into blocks. Which ones fair better meeting three times a week for 65 mintues and which fair better meeting only twice a week for 100 niintues? Professor Hayes acknowledged that there are not enongh short slots in the system and this lead to the point that it is the belief of some that Gel Time is better time schedule for some subjects, especially those in the Humanities and the Social Sciences. Professor Klein questione~, \Why is there such strong resistance\ to Gel Time. Is it perhaps because students' grades are falling, or is it that they are concerned that tJ:Je amount of leaming material lessening, or a resistance due to the loss over the midweek weekend. In closing, Professor Lewis encouraged everyone to shift toward an academic at- mosphere -Gel Time is not a crucial issue. Professor Hayes stated that the A.A.C. \con- sciously put Gel Time on the back bumer,\ due to the other pressing academic issues currently goiag on at Union. He anticipates there will be a thorough review of Gel Time on the 1988-89 school year from t.he A.A. C. One must applaud the effort of the Student Forum to improve the student-faculty relations through opeH lines of · com- munication. The panel discussion evidelltly was an example tbat open lines of cmrununications do exist between faculty and students; however, one must question if those present were intent on listening to the points and opinions of others as readily as they were to express their own. One must sincerely doubt that anyone left the panel having changed his or her beliefs of the attributes and disadvantages of Gel Time. · Calling all ~ttdent9! Student Forum Elections Friday May 6, 1988 Pick up petitions in Mrs. Marra's office, Thursday April21, 1988. Petihons due in Mrs. Marra's office Monday May2, 1988. Student Forum Ptesident . V.P. Administration V.P. Finance · V.P. Academic Affairs I<epresentative to'the Board of Trustees Cit::::lt:::X:::::G.--c::::::;;-..'--\.1:3> Sophomore, Junior, Senior Class Representatives Will the tennis courts possibly secede to the expansion of the library? College Prepares for Future Campus Construction and Renovation By ELIZABETH BERLINER Rwnors have been cir- culating throughout the campus that tennis buffs may be served a great injustice as Schaffer Library seeks area for ex- pansion. To further complicate the issue, others go on to report that the parking lot behind Richmond will be converted to the new tennis courts, resulting in a worsening of the already cramped parking situation. But before the wrath of Union students becomes too incensed, perhaps a clearer ex:planation of the facts is in order. Dr. D'Andrea is chairman of the Program Planning Com- mittee, designed to investigate means for increasing the functional capacity of the library. At this time, several suggestions have been evaluated as to where the facility may expand, but it is vital to note that all of these are only in the preliminary stage. The committee is composed of faculty, students, ad- ministrators, and librarians and is presently conducting a needs assessm~nt of the library in search of the best possible functional arrangement to be utilized in the available space. The Schaffer staff has also done extended studies regarding its own special needs, some of which promgJed the receRt change to compact shelving in the basemeat. Finally, co!l- sultation with library con- sultants and planning ar- chitects will finish out the process. The end result from aU research will be compiled in a docwnent consisting of diagrams, site plans, and ultimate recommendations. One strongly supported option has been to combine the ser- vices of the library with those of the audio-visual department and the computer center. The inclusion of all of these services into a \Learning Resource Center\ would increase student usage and allow easier access for interacting benefits. This would also allow for un- derground expansion in that such equipment functions better in an environment that has an easily controlled at- mosphere. The committee hopes to be finished with its docwnent of recommendation directly after commencement. This will allow President Morris sufficient tinie to consider its options and employ an architectual firm before fall term. Therefore, it appears that, once again, Union will be continuing its trend of eternal construction and renovation. Students Gain Recognition at Southern Research Conference Continued from page 1 gain recognition for projects they had spent many hours of work on-work that in many cases was not for college credit. According to Professor Peak, \the point of the conference is to encourage research and presentations of research from all fields of undergraduate study.\ The students involve<t are split up according to their discipline of study and met in small sessions, giving 10-15 minute talks each. Peak was impressed with the quantity and quality of Union students involved in the event. The Union group was the second largest on hand and was particularly smooth in their verbal skills. While last year the presen- tations were judged, this year they were not. According to Maura Carta, that turned out to be an advantage that made the conference more successful. \It's a lot better because it transfers the emphasis. Instead of being pressure-filled, the presentations were more relaxed. They were done not for the sake of competition, but for the sake of the research itself.\ Professor Peak hopes that interest in the conference will remain strong. Indeed he has every right to; in 1990, it's debut in the northeast will take place right here at Union. Next year it will be held at Trinity College in San Antonio, Texas. Attention Club Officers: Budget Proposals are due This Friday April 29 by 4:00 in Rm. 408 C.C. Extra forms are available in Mrs. Marra's office Page 3 Advisor- Advisee System Faces Mixed Reviews By TAMRA TIBBETI'S In a random survey on the faculty-advisor system, comments ranged from, \It's a waste,\ to, \I love my advis<Jr; I don't know what I'd do with()ut her.\ Advice which may help make the most of the college years seem limited by the luck of the draw. The system itself has few problems. It is based on the idea that every professor knows, when hired, that advising students is part of the workload. Incoming freshmen are assigned advisors by the chairman of the department in their designated interes' Changing advisors is a simph process both within a depart- ment and among others. Registrar Dwight Wolf said, \Ideally there wouldn't be uninterested faculty,'' but there are professors who are more interested in their field of study than in spending time with their advisees. A concern that has been raised at other college cam- puses like Union's according to the Intercollegiate Press, is the faculty's awareness of the technical aspects of advising. Procedures such as the pass/fail option withdrawal, and pre-registration are complicated and hinge on deadlines; situations where a student's choices are restricted by limited advice is a problem that the faculty, here, are at- tempting · to· circumvent. Faculty have been sent to the National Academic Advising Conference in an attempt to educate fellow faculty mem- bers. Notices of policy and changes in policy are constantly brought to the advisor's at- tention. A solution offered at other colleges J:Jas been to only have those faculty interested in advising become advisors. Nevertheless, an obvious problem in numbers exists; there are approximately 150 faculty and more than 2000 students in attendance. The two year old procedure of requiring the advisor's signature on a pre-registration form was established by the faculty in an effort to make sure students consult their advisors about courses. The purpose of this procedure is to bring faculty and students together. Associate Dean of Un- dergraduate Studies William Daniels admits, ''These meetings are not a panacea,\ but they are a starting point which can lead to an important relationship. Assistant Professor Ruth Stevenson said, ·'Any personal contact is beneficial to both students and faculty.\ Slle added that it serves as a backup to the advising system in that it pushes students to see their advisors. Certainly there are loopholes and all papers are not signed, but it is entirely to the student's benefit to establish contact. Professor Peter Tobiessen conunented that it can be an enjoyable experience for the professor if the student is serious and allows the faculty member to broaden his or her background by suggesting courses which reach across the wide range of curriculwn. For a good relationship, both parties must involve themselves with the other.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS., A..pril 28, 1988 FEATURES Talk of The- Town Attention Sophomores SCholarship selection i$ based Concordiensis recently asked: \How would yozz justify the tu·ition increase?\ By STAN DO BART Need a SCHOLARSHIP to pay for that outrageous increase in tUition? Tired of the same boring summer joo? You can attend Cadet Basic Camp for 6 weeks this summer With no obligation to the Army and have a chance to win .a scholarship. on . camp performance, · academic achievement and potential and demonstrated leadership ability. Photos and interviews by Francis Fitzgerald Basic Camp is deSigned for the coUege level man and worn.an t~ better acql.Ulint them witt) the .Anny. The emphasis of instruction at basic CSJ'P.P is to develop the :college student into a leader who Will take charge of a job or situation, and complete or solve the mission; with successful results. - \To pay for Jan Grey's new raise.\ Jen England '90 '' . \We couldn't even begin to justify it.\ Seth Rosenberg _'91 & Nlnl Mehta '90 .. : ·'· .. : . . . . . ·. . .. ~ . ·., -:.- :-·-:.::.··::··::::·-:..- . · .. -:-.·: . < -~- ::.:. ·'-,-·:: . ·::· .. : ,~~-~~~-~;· :·l.uCIIo\9·:·•:<··. . ,.'.· .. ·o::.···.· ... · .··.:,:. ··:,.·.· .... .-,·. GJI$.·. Coming··· ,Last summer over three hW\dred ·two-year scholarships were awarded, and I won one. Benefits of \the scholarship inlcude payuient of 80 pe[!cent tUition, allowance for books, supplies and equipment and a It was an adventurous, and subsistence al·lowance of challenging, experience being $100.00 a month. . . . . . . in direct competition with peers Some of the. expef!:. trauung . , from colleges and .unive[!sities cadets rece1ve ts land all over the nation. I learned n~vig~tion, first. aid, nuclear, how to take charge of people, biological, cheiDical, weapons and I also learned' what it takes training, rappelling, .stream to be a good follower. Most of crosing, water slll'Vival, con- all I learned about my personal fidence course, and of course strengths and weaknesses, and rigorous physicaltraining. was able to identify with and \To raise money to p1:1t more dangerous tiles in Carnegie.\ Greg Angus '90 \You cannot justify it, because. the school has plenty of money.\ Marlette Tyler '91 Union Students Take a Stand By DENISE FEINSOD find workshops taking place. camping out on the state capital 11 steps all weekend, drawing This past weekend, the North A ra ·y wa.s scheduled for attention to the fact that there is Ea$tem !O!tudent Action Net.. Monday but on Saturday we · 1 . \ . · P · were tmable to find any student. no ow income uousmg work {NESAN). I!Jponsored a act!'on·taking pla\'e.· Resi'gned:to available to them, and that they convent;on and demonst.ration \ are t m· elude..~ re·levant \' a da. Y ·ofsightse· em· .g, a £.ew· . of us no u on in Boston. This orga.n~ation committees. We decided to fonned as a result of the headed for Harvard Square. h · rt e t.h b Spottm . galarge'c\\'.Wd.ofpeople s ow our suppo a.or . es.e · y National Student Convention ~\ · ludin th · .. ,.,... t as in front of Au Bo11 Pam' , we we· nt' me g ell' enc .... upmen which was held in February at a stop on Monday's m· arch to investigate. and realiz. ed th. a. t · · · · Rutgers. Union's newly formed We went to lend our moral group, Students for PQlitieal w~t h~~sfo;:n~'wo~~unp~eiJ:rtaiollny. support to the homeless .people. Awareness and Activism ..... u We learned a lot aswehelped·by staged t.o dr. aw atte. ntion t'o the· - · (SPAA), also fonned-as a result holding up signs and banners Of that .convent!' on, whl\ch nm' e main action to take place on · ... d · . . ·. · f. d .. . M da · Le fl · · be' · an servmg oo , as well as students from Union attended. . on. Y· 8 ets ,~ere · mg talking with the people. that This weekend, 12 SPAA distribut~d to ex.plam to aU the were liVing there. Many ofthese correct them in actual leadership situatlonl!. CurrentlY we have twelve students enrolled in the Army ROTC program. Presently, five students hold scholarships with · four more ·expected recipi~nts this year. For more infomiation call Stan Dobert; 386-4310. Interested in are-- . \ warding CI;Jr'OOr in Jewish Conununel Service? Work in var· · • ious areas ofmanage- . menton an exective . level in Jewish Feder-! ati.ons nationally and . abroad Find- out· more . · \· · _ m~~M tr.a!eled ~o ~~a~ -~o · · i~ues:.l:!emg .f9c)J$e~ · upo~ .. ·'f>b~. ~ . p~ople have jobs, bllt ·they <are · see· What- -tlie . Northeastern · ~1rst-eon~ern was~ end to u.s. low paving jobs and the people groups were doing, and to mv?lvem~nt, specifically iC·!·A· cSnnol+~fotd ;te._nt.\~ '!fhey: ··said·~ : participate in their rally. actions, m Central America. tliey w~uid rather pay a two to ,;:.a.~oul'ike: FBRE~ Program We heard about the con- Also. addressed, were . the th.ree hUndred dollar per month vention via a flyer which was problems 0 ~ r~el~,. se~s~, rent than cost the state eighty to sent to us with only the dates ~d economlc discrunmat~on.m ninetydollatsanight by staying and the fact that it was taking thls country. We marched Wlth in a shelter. After staying in · place \in Boston.\ We arrived the group around Harvard front of the capital for a few Friday evening with a nice Square and ~earned, e~ route, hours, some of us.headed home place to stay (Thanks Julie and that the mam convention was while the rest went back to George), provisions for the taking place at M.~.T. M.I.T. wbere we partipipated in weekend, and high hopes of . On Sunday, ~e JOurneyed to training for the riext day'S civil participating in the convention. M.I. T. to fmd that the disobedience. . After an interesting evening ~or~sh?PS were already 0 \:er · The next morning, the five of (some of us having spent the Sittmg .mona plen~ry sesslo~, us still remaining went into the night at sea), we headed for the we . learned that certam city to participate in the march Coinmons where we hoped to homeless people had been and demonstration. After talking for a while with the Scholatshl\'p money a,vailable. For more details, sign up in Re.ligious programs office RM 404 at College Center to meet with· Represent~tive of . program. How many people can you ,remember from vo-uR orientation group? homeless, we went to City Hall where approximately 800 people eventually gathered. We heard speakers on such diverse issues as raci'sm in America, apar- theidinSouth Africa, the C.I.A., the U.S. role in Central America, economic .problems in the U.S., the continuing strike against United Paper Company, and the importance of our existence as a united student group. Signs were distributed, the route was explained, and the march began. •Senior with most complete listing wins a pizza party for that senior's freshman orientation groupU! ·Submit list by May 9 to Dean of Students ' Office, 3rd floor College Cener . . ~-- We marched through the city, staying mostly on the sidewalks so as not to give the police an excuse to arrest us. Our first stop was the National Security Agency (N.S.A.) building. The N.S.A. is a top secret organization concerned with monitoring U.S. citizens to assure internal national security. It does not have to report officially :to anyone. After chanting some ap- propriate chants, and smiling for the cameras which we figured were taking our pic· tures, we moved ()n. Next we stopped at tl,te Bank of Boston, .. whiCh has con~ neetions with . United Paper Company, which refuses to i negotiate with their workers' union. There was a political theater presentation, ~~nd fake money was dlstribu.ted to an. Continued on. pg. 6 ··. oaY:sJ=tea_ IVIarkef ·: ::.:!: ::::<r-·::tJ,l,}r2o .· · · .· .. ·.jt~~~;~~~ ' .pleaae:contact Ptit .. : ·.-;:. ·. :: .... -. · .. -' ::. ' :::::: -:: :=: _:;: :~_:: .. ; :: ::::~::: .. : .. ' : : -.:: . . -. . : . . . : -... 72'0r.':.: '• l - 1 thi e:J: ne .of COl se1 tal tUJ COl Th wil lie hu la< im re~ se tei th~ do' fo1 ci\ to1 po: rei mt th< -e ,. -

CONCORDIENSIS, April .28, ·1988 Page 5 ------------....,. .~~--- . -~ . ' . ~ .. , ... FEATURES . By MARK HAUGIIT()N :Featutes Editor other$ and 'U$e their religious bellefs as an excuse for their .~ act~ons• 'Mines that are placed in the Persian Gulf are representative of militant activities directed at every and all nations that participate in tbe trade of oil and other Mideastern goods. Outwa.rd Bound Understand that my Views on this controversial issue are e~remely subjective and do not ne~essarily repre::Jent the views .of the members of the Cott- cordlemd~ board. As You can see, Pve learned to cover my taU. Enough already. ' Iran and· Iraq. are countries in turmoil. Interior and exterior conflict eXist in both societies. This is true in varying degrees with all societies. The problem lies in the religious beliefs and humanistic philosophies, or the lack of such philosophies, that inspire the individuals of their respeetive countries to act in self-interested, militant, terrorist ways. Simply stated, the actions of either country does not jive with tlte respect for others that the other ciVilizations of the world adhere to in varying degrees: There is a point at which freedom of religion and political activity must be taken; taken from those who ~inflict _damage upon So let's sell arms to, them to keep them fighting, to reduce the clu~nces of them organizing their hatred for the United , states in the fonn of an oil' embargo~ and at the same time forcefully object to their military actions m the gulf. To me, thi~ is q'Ui.te contradictory. I would like to see us reduce aur reliance on the oil.of the Middle East cmd in time take a stance ·on the actions of Iraq and Iran. F.urthennore, the nations of the world that are directly affected by the flow of oil in the Gulf should organize economic and military actions to cease the fighting in tpe international waters ofthe Gulf. If this means military action against the involved countries, it should be mutually ~~~pported by the US and the USSR. IF YOU'VE NEVER DONE IT, DO IT NOW ••• What 10th Annual Delta: Gamma Olympics When Friday, May 20 at 1:00PM Where Library Field Why To Benefit Sight Conservation and Aid to the Blind . By SUZANNE SHAKER AssGeiate Features Editor · ~iking, sailing, canoeing, ~kiing,, . c~cling, snowshoeing, Ice clllJlbmg, deep cave ex- ploration; dog. sledding . . . stop, stop please, enough. They all sound wonderful, incredibly exciting, adventurcn1S, risky, dangeroqs and only for the most athlet-ic, daredevil, carefree spirits .. Well that leaves me out, or so I thought. Self-discovery, personal growth, cooperation, . teamwork. .. that I can handle. The \outdoor challenge;\ \the natural experience,\ \learning by doing\ (in the wilderness), now I'm skeptical. I do not live . dangeroiiSly, although I would lo~ .t?· say I do. High risk acti:v.Itles are not my forte. My physical endurance level leaves much to be desired, but the curiosity, interest and spirit are ever present~ So where does this leave me? O:t better yet where does this leave all of you who are in the same position, and question their capabilities and limits. . As ~he saying goes, be open to new Ideas and experiences, try something new, live dangerously, live on the edge. I'm not ready to engage in any death defying, life threatening stunts, no climbing the'Empire State Building for me, thank you, but perhaps Outward Bound .is not so far out of my league, or yours. And fGr those .of you natural athletes Outward Bound is with()ut a doubt right up your alley. Ten teams of 5 men and 5 women are eligible to compete in Olympic games like you've never seen them before! An.entry fee of $7 per team member covers the cost of a tee-.shirt, g. ames an9 pri;zes. One team member must register you team at REGISTRATION ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 4 AT 12:45 IN CARNEGIE. Bring team ; entry f~~ Qf :~70, Rag~s.t\*ti9~. is~ o(La first cq!lle, first serve ba!iis, . . Outward Botind is not a . progranrfor only highly skilled · ekperietn:~~d a~li~tes, oil the·· · . : Atflj: IF: YOU'VE ·D.ONE~IT, YOU ·KNOW HOW·. GOOD IT IS ! I I ' . ·- DAMBRO.SE CLEANERS 1517 Van Vranken Ave 374 .. 5193 Senioritis ByLEA.TAJACKSON Senioritis is a column designed to bri~g together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of 1 88. +Watch your mail! If you ordered commencement an- noUncements, they should be here soon. + Have you been to the Registrar to fill out any necessary forms? Are all of your credits and classes in order'! . \\ . ~ DRY CLEAN'ING AND TAILORING + Parents' Weekend isnext weekend. J;'iow all you have to do . · is decide what to do with them for the weekend. From the excitement of sailing to the ... contrary it is for anyone with average physical abilities, your firs! excuse j.!JSlt w~nt down th. e dram, as did tmne. As the brochure says · the only reqtdrer.nentsare conarnitnlent and the willingness to try, and we are all capable of that. Outward Bound is described as both physically and mentally challen,ging. The experience goes beyond building one's physical strength and en- durance. There are the rewards of increased self-esteem and s~lfmconfidence, enhanced leadership qualities, learning to rely on others and discovering that \nothing is beyond yoW' reach,\ if you set your mind to it. It m~ be mentioned that Out war~ Bound is not a survival .. ,: course,. bllt rather a course in learning, how to live com- fortably and safely in the Wilderness. . : There are · five Outward BoWld; schools tbrollghout the country lleadqllartered in Mai11e, California, North Caroli11a, Minnesota and Colorad.D. The programs offered range from canoeing and white water r. afting in Maine to dogsledding, skiing and winter eampirlg in the - Rockies to mountain,climbingin .Arizona to sailing and sea kayaking in the Florida Keyes to name a few. Each program has a minimwn age requirement, it falls somewbere betwe~n 14-18 fol\ most prGgrams. The length of the excursions range anywhere from f-30. days •. Also available is a sPeCial Nepal climb and l'rek in the Khumbu Area, Mera Peak which runs for 25 days at a hefty $3,000, Although financial aid is available the cost is a definite drawback. The prices for Olltward Bound courses start at $450 for some four-day tripS a11d steadily increase to $2,00jt for some of the .longer progra_ms. Outward Bound, althougb probably worth the cost is WI expensive way to have fun. make new friends, learn more about yoW'self and the environment and gain valuable survival and athletic skills. EARTH DAY! Orientation, Winter Fest, TheatreFest, Fiji Basketball Marathon, TrimD~lt RWI, 00 Olympics, Women's Week, Parents' Weekend, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, Greek Week, Camp Union, and the ruckus of an those spring flings. . . . tranquility of cross-country skiing. Outward Bound course of- feringsrun througbout the year. Many co.lleges, in fact, grant credit for specific Outward Bo1md coW'ses. If iilterested check o11t Union's policy on this. \To receive more information includ.iag a course schedule call toll free,\ (800) 243-8520, in CT )203) 661..0797 or write: Outward Bound USA, 364 Field pt. Rd., GreenWich, CT. 06B30 . May 21st THE GARDENS riEECOREI rOB ALL MOTHER& ON MOTHER'S DAY . :May 8tb.,1988 A~<:eptable Ptoof of Mothe:rhood 1 Your l'M(s) 2Photoot' Your' Kid(.~) 3 f>if'tl'l Certlficel:e 1\o Grey Hai1'3 5 '1h.sll:lly ~r!nt Oetl'wo! Wbat do all these Union traditions have in conunon? For just $5 each, you can buy a T- sbirt commemorating these events. So the typical senior has a drawer full of Union T+sbirts and sweatshirts~ Alld what to do with them all after graduation when most of us join the suit- and~tie world? · Well, you can always wearthe shirts (on the . weekend, the occasional holic:Uty) until they wear out. Most of the shirts are 50-50 or 100 percent cotton so they would make good waxing rags for that first Buick (BMW?) They are good for other household chores as well. If you're the pack rat tY;Pe, you can pack thetn away m yGur footlocker with old Concordy' s and the Freshm~ Record _and ·other mementos of these college years. You can give them to your little sister for sleepwear. Grandma may be able to do amazing thihgs with them in a quilt. If it was a particularly good memory, you could have them framed. l sort of like the idea of sewing up the bottom, top and sleeves, stuffing them and using them as throw pillows .in my first apartment. There is .still time and op- portunity to add to the collec- tion! Don't miss your chance this term! Only $5 (usually). Get 'ern while they're hot! I TUNE IN TO 89.7 FM FOR THE: WRUC EDITORIAL MONDA~ WEDNESDAY AND FRIDAY EVENINGS ~~~,f\,f\ li 1 P~i-Emi's weekend 1 · •1' Concert ;r. -:-I\ ·UnionCollegeCham~rOrohestxa -r\. ~~ Union College Choir -~ 4i - Performanc~. will include: fl - .. ···•.f\: Beethoven) Rossinit Elgar, ·I\. eJI~: .. · . ., . ·. •·. Vivaldi, Handel •-- ~.. · ... :::f~tu:rM· · .. day~ ~alyC7ba·thatl8~ ~ .Jl) ·. emoti · · pe •- ~ ~~,i~;~pglt ~n WUson. Conductor 1 lfl;fi\,f\,r.,f\~~~-1

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, 1PrU .28, 1988 ___ :.. 0 -·-· ' • 0 • • ~ ' 0 -, \>< 0 ~ ~ 0 • • --- • ' ' 0 w'...-;~ __ ..__ . FEATUR.ES. ' Legal Brief ByTINA SCIOCCHE'ITI discrimination either. In fact., any ,policy that does not Dear Legal Brief, discr:iminate bas·ed on race, Recently, I drove twenty color, creed, ~national origin or minutes to Stuyve11ant Plaza to sex is generally acceptable. Age ea.t dinner at T. G .I. Friday's is not a category included in the . only to be told at the door that I discr'ilnination clauses of the · could not ·eat dinner there A.B.C~ Codes. · because it was after 8:00 p.m. Most alcohol serving and I am not 21. The woman at establishments that have age- the door told me that you must l!lpecific policies ..:use Section havetwo forms of identification 106.6- of the A.B. C. Codes as- • . to enter the restaurant after defense when these policies are 8:00 p.m. unless .accompanied chaDenged. This section says . by a parent, even .if you. just generally that all licensees want to eat there and do not must protect against Robe, Grandpa Munster and Hersh Out to Eat with Her,sb and Robe plan to order any dliinks. My disorderly premises.'' roommate had a similar ex- Therefore a bar could argue perience at a local bar which that admitting anyone 21 and will not admit women under 23 over would crowd their and men Wlder 25 even though establishment and lead to the drinking age here is 21. disorderly premises. For These policies .seeJil to be a example, T.G.I. ~J,'iday's could , . form of discrimination based on argue that on Friday night 376 By i\NDREW ~RSHAFI' and pizza were inCluded. ·A Spendini . di Polio, ( $0.95) age. Are they? people come to thefr door and and BILL ROBBINS thoughtful touch . is the num- breasts of chicken rollatini, According to $11 investigator that their establishment can \' bering .of each dish, for'those sauteed in white wine and at the New York State Liquor only hold 250 people. Therefore · Grampa's who dread pronouncing. ltalian mushroom sauce .. Although not Authority, these establislunents they mll$t screen customers words.. the most exciting ·dis.b, it was are .acting within their rights· and limit admittance to those The man in the picture is Al 'U.pon entering, we were done perfectly. Like all the up~er the law. As li_c~ns~es, a over 21 in order to ensure an Lewis, bett;er known to those greeted by Grampa, who was other entrees (except the high pena).tyis.placedon them, orderly premises. A bar could · who grew up with \the Mun- · hugging one of his cHefs. manicotti), it was served with a not on the purchasers of alcohol, also argue that. they have had a ster11\ as Grampa. We found· Bubbling with enthusiasm, he tasty side order of zucchini. when a violation of the liquor prO<blem with customers . ourselves in his restaurant in mtrcduced us to ;a.jrio, Letizia, Gambe~i. aUa Grampa, for codes occurs. Policies that limit misrepresenting theil' age (i.e. Greenwich Village last whom he claimed i~ tbe best $12.95 was my choice for the the age. of ·Customers are at- fake i.d.'s) and that by weekend, and in light of his Italian chef in America. evening. It was listed as tempts to screen out problems restricting. the age to those over . presence, we felt we just had to Gr:~pa was serious enough Grampa.'s favorite, and with wiich might lead to violations. 23 or 25, the licensees are en· do a review. · about hiS restaurant' to go to Italy good reason. The fou_r ex- Alcohol Beverage Control suring that all customers will be · Wit)l oW' dates Sister Sledge and handpick his chefs, en- tremely large shrimp were (A.B.C.) Codes do not specify at least 21. This would again and Madame Butterfly, we trusing. them with his secret rolled in prosciutto and dipped that public accommodations protect them against liability. were met by a long line. While pasta recipe. in a delicious egg batter and licensed for ttte sale of alcoholic According to the investigator tbe two lovely ladies and I tried The restaurant is a simple, cognac sauce. It was a beverages can keep people out from tbe State Liquor , to steal glimpses of Grampa fresh and modern place, with a memorable dish. of their establishments based on Authority, bars~~ restaurants· through the windows, H~rsh festive air about it. Although it For dessert, we shared a their age, but the codes also do c811 basically do anything tc> · went in to give our names. He iscrowdedandsomewhat.noisy, piece of triple-layer chocolate not make it illegal for them to keep their premises from · returned very excited, with a the overall impression is cake and a slice of cheesecake, do so. becoming disordedy (within the · big grin on his face, as he had carefre.e, casual and cheerful. the only two choices on the Policies that restrict people limits of the other codes). The just met one of his after-school : . The ...sight of Grampa mov~g :q1enu:. .Although the chocQlate under a certain age fr.om en- Liquor Authority does not TV heroes. about, and mingling . with his _ C::~~ was rieh and very .good, it tering an establishment are not consider policies that restrict Together we browsed through gueSts added to the air of- ex-· ' was overshadowed by the considered forms of age discriminatory or illegal. . the menu in the window. It citement, ~uperb, creamy cheesecake . ...._ _____________________ ....,;~ offered an interesting variety of For starters, the four of. us Along with coffee and cap- Union Students Take ·a Stand pasta, chicken and veal dishes, decided to share two orders of pucino, they were the perfect all at reasonable prices. In the Tortellini Special ($9.95 .closing to an outstanding meal. addition, hot and cold ~tipasti a piece), which were actually Our bill came to $92JI5, which offered as entrees. Even may seem expensive. Con- divided in ha1f, the portions sider.ing the caliber of its food wel,'e ample. The tortellini, andits New !'ork. City locat~on stuffed with mushrooms, were (not to mentlQn Its endearmg light andsavory. Coveringthem host), Grampa's is actually was a·delightful tomato sauce, quite a bargain. Furthermore, accented with bits of ham. the service was excellent; our Continued from page 4 We then headed. for the armed forces recrulting center. At this stop a \die-in\ was staged; after a countdown, we all \di;cdpt to show our disagreement with the ·death which the armed forces is in- volved with. OUr last stop was the state capital. We first went to the front of the building and demonstrated ~ur support for the demands of the homeleSs people. We then went to a side door and attempted to enter this public building .. The police blccked our way and req.sed to allow us to enter. Many people involved in the march sat down- and continued the chants, risking possible arrest for refliSing to disperse. We did not seethe point of getting arrested, and deciding that ou!\·\\in- volvement was over, we headed home. We learned about many issues, concentrating mostly on the situation of the homeless. We also had the experience ·of participating , in a very in- teresting march and demon- stration. We have a videotape of most of the weekend, and urge anybody who is interested to stop by SPAA's table in Car- negie on Friday, talk to us, and check out the video. LAST PAY FRIDAY, APRIL 29 RICHARD BLATCHFORD ORATORICAL CONTEST PRELIMINARY ROUNDS Tuesday, Wednesday . May 3-4 'PICK UP APPLICATIONS AT: Library Circulation Desk · Student Affairs S&E, Room S100 Parents Weekend Showdown Friday, May 6-. 7 pm Social Sciences 016 coM•NG soou WRUC L•rf'Yu F•~ rr I . • Sister Sledge chose a. simple waiter was fast, courteous and manicotti dinner, for $7.95. Like very infonnatiye. Since our most.of Gram:pa's dishes, it was rating system is based Solely on light and delicious, and .came Ca~ital District restaurants, we with a great tomato sauce. The dec1ded not to rate Gampa's. Chicken an4 Shrimp Special,. at · We do suggest, however, that $14.95, was Madame ·ButterO.y's anyone in the Village try it. choice. Everythl.ng about it, Grampa's · from tbe mozzarella, crabmeat 252 Bleeker St. and spinach stuffing, to the New York,~NY yellow pepper garnisJrment, '212) .627·9119 was superb. She raved about credit cards not accepted; how light and delicious the dish reservations not accepted; was, especially the cr.eam ~rice for four, with tax. before sauce. Hersh selected the tlp: $92.85. ANNOUNCING EXPRESSO AND CAPPUCCINO AT THE DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT! Special Promotion Wedn~day And ThursdQ.y Evenings · 8:00-lO:OOPM Relax: in a continental way with ,expresso and Italian patenes. .. ..

CONCORDIENSJS, April '2Q, 1988 Page 7 new stages of performance. . Paul Zaloo.m THEATER OF TRASH ' April 29, 7:30arid 10:00 April :30, 8:02p.m. $7.50 Qeneral admission $5.00with i.d. Available by phone at 346e204 or in person at the Proctor's Box Office, Proctor's Arcade, 432State Street, Schenectady, Mon.-Fri. 1().6, Sat. 10.S.1ickets are also available at the door, one hour before performance. This season at Proctor's Too .... ,Z-at_,o..,...om-. -s-its_w ..... ,-_th_t_h_e -be_s.,....t-. is presented in cooperation oftheguestlistat that with overtumedtableof ~ American surrealist - t-IE!ii~I.AN' humor.\ THE VILLAGER 266 Broadway, Sch'dy Where You Can > Distinguish Yourself This Summer Summer Session I (May 31-July I) Anatomy & Physiology I *Field Botany Chemistry & Health Fundamentals of Chemistry Public Speaking Comparative Political Cultures *Introdt!ction to Early Childhood Educatiorr lntennediate French Review American Dreams & Nightmares: An. Exploration of the 1960s . · · .. ''' _\ · · · .. ·. · · ·.'Jn,rod42ti~n to Cotl_eM Atge!Sra: ' ·· :. ~· • - · · · ··- · ' Eleineritar Staristiq' '' · -~ ·: · · · ., .. ··•·• •. Y' •. ,,, · Computer Science II · · - lntennediate and College Algebra Morality and Sexuality *The Cinema and Society Summer Session II (July 5-August 5) · - *Innovative Explorations in Landscape Drawin'g *Innovative Explorations in Landscape Painting Anatomy & Physiology II Computers & Applications *Curriculum Design for Early . Childhood Education . Introduction to College Algebra II Elementary Statistics American National Government Summer Session III (May 31--August 5) *Pre-Med. Pre-Health Professions Extemship introdm:tion to Organic and Physiological Chemistry Internship in Communication Arts .. D~1lelopm,I!Qtal Psychology . · A6nol1llal·Psychologr · ·' · · · .. .s~~ial :~e!tare Policy . ~ . ~ ·~ ... Special Course Offerings *Jose Campeche at the MetroPOlitan Museum (July 7..:8) . *Experimental Raku Workshop: Focus on Nature Forms (August 8-19) *Reduced tuition: $140 per credit Registration: Sessions I & III- Through May 20 (Late registration May 23-27. 31) Session II- Thmugh June l7 (Late registration June 27-29, July 5) ·' ... ,.. .... _ CoUegeof Netv RocheUe \ School of Arts &: Sciences • School of Nursing • School of New Resources • Graduate School C()Jlcgc of New Rochelle, New Rnchc.Uc. NY 10805~ 1914) 654-524S CLASS Of. '88 YOU'RE INVITED TO ATIEND A COMMENCEMENT EXERCISE · If you've graduated, or will grad- uate.'with a Bachelor.:s or advanced degree between October 1. 1987 and Janoary 31. 1989, you're invited to attend a commencement exercise.at Jack Byrne . You rnay qualify tor $400 from Ford and - pre•approved credit from Ford Motor Credit Company. To qualify for pre-approved credit, you need: (1) verifiable employment begiry~ ning within 120 days after your vehiqle purchase; (2) a salary sufficient to cover normal living expenses plus a car payment; and (3) if you have a credit record, it ATTENTION STUDENTS: Thank you . for_ your overwhelming response to the PARENT'S WEEKEND BRUNCH! The brunch in upperclassmen's dining hall has sold out. Dutch Hollow Restaurant will be open for cash sales and . . . West College Welcomes aU Parents to Mother's Day Brunch on Sunday, May 8th. No Reservations Needed. Continental Will be from 10:00~ 10:30 and the fantastic West Brunch will be served from 10:30-1 :00. Below is a convenient schedule for the rest of the term. Sat.May7 Sun!lay May 8 May14&15 May20 May21-22 May2S.th May 29th June 4&5 West ·College closed UCbH will serve both brunch and dinner · Both West College & UCDH wil1 serve Brunch & Dinner UCDH will serve both lunch & Dinner. W!l1lt College is Closed. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day. All Units Closed for Dinner , UCDH open for brunch & dinner. West College is Closed Camp Union.All Units Closed Both West Coll~e &b UCDH Open for Brunch & Dinner Both West College & UCDH will be open for Brunch & Dinner Caberet Week-end at 'Dutch Hollow! Come in and relax- our menu will feature pizza, chicken wings, burgers, fried mozzerella sticks, and morel MEAL CARD CREDIT FROM 5:30-7:30 Then listen to the Sound of \Spirit\ 10 pm- 1 am Saturday Come join your friends for a fun time! ALL AT THE COLLEGE CENTER SATURDAY AND SUNDAY .. ~0 ~ T0B Charity Volleyball Marathon Saturday,·April30· Sam- 8 pll1 To raise money for local boy needing kidney dialysis nonations Appreciated Call 3'86 .. 4300 or 4311 must indicate payment made asagreed. . - ·The $400 from ,Ford is yours whether you-finance or not.:.K~p it or apply 1t to the purchase or tease of an eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle. For all the details, contact us or call Program Headquarters, toll free. at 1·800,.321-1536. · But hurry. This limited time offer is only available between March 1 and December 31, 1988. So take advantage of the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program now. JACK BYRNE F:ORD & MERCURY WHEN;. MARCH 1, 1988-DECEMBER 31, 1988 FOR: • PRE-APPROVED' CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT • $400 CASH BONUS FROM FORD JACK BYRNE FORD & MERCURY JCT. RTS. 4 & 32, MECHANICVILLE, NY12118 PH. 664-9841 I HOURS: MON. THUR THURS. 9 AM-9 PM; FRI. 9AM-6PM; SAT. 9AM-5PM Jt -

Page 8 CONCORDJENSIS, April 28, 1988 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Conor Cruise O'Brien Visits Union a: w ··~ ByAIMESIMON As the visiting Lamont Professor, Connor Cruise O'Brien gave the Minerva lecture Thursday, April 14, addressing the Palestinian- Israeli question, and has taught several sessions of Prof.- Frazier's class, Literature of the Irish RenaiSsance, in ad- dition to Prof. Marten's Con· temporary Irish Poetry Seminar. Our distinguished guest is both an influential writer and a politician. Author -of over a dozen books and the plays 'Murderous Angels' and- 'King Herod Explains', he has been in. successio,n,, Special Representative of the UN Secretary General to ~~ga. · Albert Schweitzer Prof. of Humanities in NY University, a member of the Irish Parliament, Irish Labour P~y spokeiDD~. and editor of the magazine, The Observer. The passion in Cruise O'Brien's work stems from his Catholic backgroUnd and childhood in Ireland, in examining the interactiDn between religion and nationalism. He comes from a political family; his maternal grandfather was a member of the British Parliament and a supporter of Charles Parnell (1891), leader of the Irish Home Rule movement, seeking Irish independence from England. Early in life, Connor got a taste of the tension in Irebind bet- ween Protestants and Catholics and especially between warring factions of sentiment within the Catholic population. At five years of age he heard boomings and sat listening to the' shelling of Four Courts in Dublin. This historic event in· 1922, marked the beginning of the civil war between moderate Catholics who accepted the division of Ireland into northern and southern states, and the Irish Republicans (future supporters of the IRA) who rejected the partition treaty and resolved to continue the crusade for a united independent Ireland. Cruise O'Brien had an uncle on each side ofthedebate. Francis Sheehy Shetfington was taken as a hostage during the 1916 Easter Rebellion and was executed. On the other hand, uncle Thomas Kettle was killed fighting in the British army. Thus, the puzzle and frightening reality of the political phenomenon in his homeland effected him deeply as a yo\lng man and would .become Ute focus directly or indirectly of a great portion ·of. his life's work. Dr. O'Brien believes. that through. ,one's · own e~J;i?n~e one becomes curious about certain questions. The pUI'pose of the writing and lecturing i$ to explain the ~ue to yoilrseU. as yoll explain 1t to others, and to hear their reaction. Ind~. . :~: ' . •.' above all, in interpretation and description, he is a realist. He has witnessed the complexity of · history first hand. Ireland will not, cannot, have peace in the .near future is his thesis; for today even .if the British withM drew from Northern Ireland, the possibility of an Ulster Protestant vs. Catholic civil war is strong. Although this is not a popular opinion, Connor is not afraid to boldly and. openly express. bis views even in the face of heavy opposition. :For example, in October 1971, as a leader of the Labour Party, which advocated a coalition not forcing the Northern Protestants into United Ireland at gunpoint, he critized in public debate the IRA, character~ing the organ~ation as a military elitist movement. § ~ :Z Havlng spent a large portion . ,j5 of his time in the ·United States, 0 . . . > teaching at such !ID~versttles as ·~ Dartmouth, Wdhams, and ...,. NYU, he is nonetheless proud to ~ confirm that he ·has never - c.. stayed in Amerlca for an entire year. He feels the need to .reside at least .part of the year at his house ten miles from Dublin. Ireland is his homeland and he has no desire to ever per- manently move to the U.S. However, America offers many more financial opportunities, as well as the feasibility to .offer highly specialized classes departing from the traditional curriculwn. While the students· · · in U.S. colleges seem to have less specific knowledge about literature and historythan-tbeir Irish counterparts, .he finds that they absorb new information quickly and react in' a refreshing ihterestiiig way. At this . stage in .his life, Connor Cruise O'Brien no longer · applies for positions. Interested parties who require his precise expertise based on international reputation, come to him. \I ani asked to do things, and I do them,\ he modestly asserted. In the future, he envisions the com- pletion of his project on Edmund Burke, and looks forwardtoteaching next year at the University of Pennsylvania. Mr .. J 'brings the ancient art of storytelling to Union. Mr. Jin ls ln'for Storytelling By JASON MESIINlCK At 10:00, two hours before I normally start my day, I awoke, running to the shower in. ex- citement. He was coming today I I quickly got dressed and ran to\ .library plaza where, seated at a small table, was Mr. Jin. His full name is Jin Shengbo--.~d his art is, that· of Chinese Suzhou Pinghua storytelling. He ·has come to us through Prof. Reynolds and brought along, as interpreter, Professor Susan Blader of Dartmouth's Chinese depart- ment. and other prominent statesmen tried to persuade die emperors to accept their theories usually by telling . stories first; The storytelling varies from place to place in.its· comumes iP}d props. But the .unique featrwe of this storytelling is that . the per .. former would tell it in any open place· With just what he could carry on his shoulders; Those who make a living by this profession must be .good because most of the stories are old. A good performer is able to· take the original plot and change it each night, thus, a different story. Also, there are q_o microphones an-d only one opportunity to make an im· pression; no second takes. Mr. Jin is such a performer. - · Because of his courageous declaration he was termed a \danm reactionary\ and was threatened with assassination. His integrity · and . pursuit of truth in its absolute fomi can be illuStrated ·in his choice of resignation from UN service in 1961. He wanted to tell the story of UN Secretary Hammarskjold and black prime minister Lamamba in Katanga, which was being suppressed. The decision was painful and the consequences drastic, in surrendering an extremely sought after and .influential position. However, he felt that the price of remaining was too great. Since he knew that the released UN official version was untrue, he could not con· tinue in bls role by aquiesing to something that he knew to be a blatant lie. Thus he opted to \jump out of the sinking ship.\ During his visit to Union, Connor's heroic pragmatism was noted. In his Minerva lecture, based on his research for his book The Siege, he A small group of students and faculty gatllered to hear Mr. Jin explain his art and tell us a story. He has been telling stories in the Suzhou dialext for 30 years, and although there is another dialect every ten iniles, Mr. Jin is popular in other parts of China. This is largely because of his abilityto contort U>ok for his new book w6ich his face into any position he was just published last week by chooses. A good time was had by all who attended. We thank Mr. Jin for coming to Union and bringing a .piece of Chinese cultureto us. Also to be thanked for a fine job of interpretation is Prof, Blader., who actually · belpedtomakeMr. Jin'svisitto the U.S. poSSiple. Lastly, our appreciation goes out to Professor Reynolds, who arrahged today~s assembly. Harvard University Press, - Chinese storytelling dates entitled \The Massey Lectures: '· back to thousands of years ago, God, Land, Religion, and when there were still nearly 100 Nationalism\. city-states in China. Confucius Finland: The Forgotten Country declared the current By CHARLES OLIVIER BOCH Palestinian Israeli problem as unsolvable, comparing the If someone asked you where religious and nationalist conflict Finland is, you may be able to in the middle-East to the locate it in Northern Europe, predicament in Ireland. The but would you know that the historical roots of conflict are capital and largest city of too firmly fixed to enable a Finland is Helsinki? Perhaps. quick and easy solution; ac- YQU might also- know the word cordingly, fightirlg will continue \Finlandisation\ which refers without either side triwnphing. to its political system. However, In the college Center with the exception of those with auditorium, Cruise O'Brien's · · a special. interest in Finland, · pessimistic forecast was . few would know much more greeted with great hostility by about this distant country. several members of the FinlandispartofScandinavia audience who had anticipated a but has several significant plausible proposal of resolution. differences from its neighbors. In the heat of all this con- troversy, he does not consider hi$ private life negatively in- fluenced by his public career. HIS Wife :fs sympathetic to, his·· political outlook, and is, in her own right, an'importantforce in, literature 8$ the leading poet of· th~Gaeliclanguage in the world today. First, the Finnish language originates fr()m a different linguistic family than those of its European neighbors. Its origins are tr~ced back to the Ural.r~gion. ·se~ondly, ·this language( differe~c'e ·'leadS '\to cultural .isolation. lndee_d, Finnish art is virtually unknown · abroad. Finally, Finl~md has special ties with the Soviet Union, which are not Shared by other Scandinavian. countties. Some . common features t~ .. t Finland shares Wltft o~ner Scandinavian co,\U,ltries ~re~ the welfare statej. th~ va.st~es.s. of the lands; the lqw pop\llatlPD (less than five million people); and the rigorous . climate.,_ ... F4llan4, )l~vil,lg .be~n,o~~,,.of the J)ooreSt ooutitr.iea .in.,Europe - the beghming .of th~ century, ~came,. in a few decades, one of the- richest in· Europe, and in the world. Its mensive welfare ~Ystem protects ·its eitizens ~om the .hardships of ·cllm~te, t!iOO~~, ana· . WJeznploymf!nt. Howevlfr,- its eeonomic-- ~em· ia buoo on C&pita.J.ist principle!~. Its political infrastructure portant role in Shaping the reflects influence from San· mentality of the Finns. In the dina via, Western Europe and northern part of the country, the the United States. Only in sun totally disappears for six ' foreign .policy is FinlanQ (a weeks. In the southern parts of neutral state) bound to the the country the sun is up only Soviet Union, which wa-s the for a few hours. The winter is, _ price it had to -pay for its therefore characterized by freedom; it is obliged to back · darkness, cold temperatures the USSR on international and ice. High rates of suicide, issues. On a recent trip to depression, alcoholism and, Moscow, I mentioned the ironically, insomnia are direct Russian-Finnish treaty of consequences of the harsh freindship to a few Finns, an~ winter climate. In .contrast, the that received a long ant1- . · shf?rt s.ummer bnngs a . great comnumist speech. They told ·· . relief to ~he popUI~t~on. People me that I, like an foreigners, did try to enJOY every mmute of the not fully understand the sun, which is up, in th~ nox:th, 24 situation. Their major concern hour~ a day. In Scanc:JinaVla the was that Finland had to face the sun lS almost worshipped. The Soviet Union on an BOO-mile fair swnmer w~ather allows the border. Finland. a country With ~ple ~o practt~e:m~y outdoor a mere five million people, has &ctivi~leS .. Fmns,. like all reasons to fe&·r . R.ussia, . a Sc~ndmavtans, . are natU:re - · · ··-- ' ·· · ·t·h· '2liO'·.~·:m · lovers and are very concerned superpower WI . 1uuuon .. b . . .. . . h . people_. In addition, most FinnS a o'lit protectmg t etr en- speak English and one or two vironment. other Western languages Finland, is therefore, a fluently but few speak RU$Sian~ unique . cowttry f~r cultural, They h~ve not forgotten .that . P91iticB:l, 1111J. ·S()!!lal rea59ns. during World War H, the Films. . lbe,_ extren:J.e lpti~ess .of £he. (ought a bloody war against the people coUl~ not dif\.lppomt ~Y Soviet aggressor~ 'l'herefolle,,.jt- . visitor,~.Jtas .. cett;amly an. m- . appears ·that ·_Finlls are V'e;:oy . 'terestmg. re~on of ~he world to much an.ti-c()nununist. , . . . . , . · • j 'vj_sit ~d ~Qrth ~~ttmg to know. The climate plpyec:t -an .. ,un~ · :, 1\.~ . -·.. ,,, ._,. · STU·DE·N··T\\c El:::··e C·l'~CiN :, ... _ ...... · · · . ·- ~ . .,CAN:DlDA-TES-:- · · .. o:. if you want .,to hav~. ~tatament~~ h;L nexttwe~~·a..paper I· please bring,yot.:~r eleetio!'. s~ernents·'(no~mer~ than 1 doubl~~spaced, Jypf).q_p~g,etMop.)¥1ay 2n.d _at ? .o.o p.m. A photo.gfapffer· wUrtake ·your pho.,to, Me.et in the CQJieg.e .. Center Atrium, .; .... · . . ~,i!' ,~. ',l;;(f ~ ··, ' ··-:&· •. (. : .. - .. . . ~---, .. .. · .. ~ . ThaRk you~ ·· . \'-::' ., - .... l li w t< N N ol Ol ol II t( r• ll c t; Cl li A N P' tl h: sl tl n p e d h :d n s: r J - '

··· 'CONCORDJENSIS, April. 281 1988 .. Page~ :INTERNATIONAL FEATURES - . . Friday .night ..• Bringing the World to \U\ By GARYSTEINBAUM lnternatiollalFeatures Editor International weekend was a large success entertaining all who attended the events which took place last weekend. Nicolas Boch and Lina Ngamtrakulpanit; the co-chairs . of International Student Union, organized a fantastic program of events which enabled the international students of Union to share their talents with the rest of. tl)e campus. International weekend began last Friday night at the College Center where various students talked about their homelands or countries in which they have lived. Dana Hagstrom, an American who spent a year in Norw.ay, talked about his ex• perience as well as discussing 'the country. He accompanied his talk with a beautiful array of slides showing the many pic- turesque views.of the land of the midnight sun. An interesting point of his presentation was· in explaining that Norway is in darkness much of the year, only having three hours o~ sunlight..a day. However, during two months of summer, there is· sunlight at all times which revitalizes its deni'l:ens. Mthough one would think that ~- .. this would inhibit economic prosperity, this is far from the truth. Norway has the second highest standard of living in the world. Puerto Rico was the next topic which wa$ presented by Edgar Letriz,. a native Puerto Rican and secretary of the ISU . He reminded everyone that Puerto Rico is a commonwealth of the United States. Puerto Rico has its own governor as well as its own set of laws. flo wever, President Reagan is the president, and they must abide by his decisions. Some of the people are in favor of having. Puerto Rico become a state, yet others do not want this in fear of over industrialization. Edgar also discussed the people and customs of his homeland and ended his talk by inviting everyone to vislt sunny Puerto Rico. Nicolas Boch, a Union student .from 'France and Patrick Peri'Vier, the French teaching assistant,. took the audience through France with an in- depth slide presentation of the country. One was able to travel from the top of the Eiffel Tower to the chateaux of the Loire valley. The slides of . Mont Saint Michel proved to be one ·of the highlights of the tallt, for many people were ready to take off to Brittany. The avid skier was quite tempted to fly to the Alps to ski the slopes of Val d'Isere which happens to be the ·site of the 1992 Winter Olympics. Nicolas and Patrick whisked one · through France giving everyone a .strong desire to visit. A passionate presentation . of Greek politics was given by Anthiklias Carassavas. Anthee, being a native Greek, is very knowledgable abollt the subject and has strong political ideals. She explained . the Greek political system by presenting the political parties. Fur- thermore, she explained the current problems in Greece which she feel stem from the socialist government headed by Papandreao.u. Everyone ·became quite informed on this matter. · After the speakers, everyone shared their ideas md thoughts about international relations at the r~ception which followed. The night was suceessful, and everyone who attended walked away having been entertained and educated. ISU students perform traditior:~al Fart Dance Saturday night: International Cabaret By GARY STEINBAUM Interimtional Features Editor The festivities continued Saturday night with an in• temational cabaret held at the Old Chapel. the ISU members united in order to entertain the campus using their diverse and numerous talents. Alberto Iaia, an active organizer of the weekend, was the Master of Ceremonies .for the evening. His quick wit and funny jokes kept the en- tertainment flowing smoothly, for he kept the audience en- tertained. He shared many of his problems and experiences · about adjusting to a new culture . and language which enabled . one to understand the problems a foreign student faces. voice. Laura next sang a love song by herself. in Italian. Laura captivated and moved the listeners with her powerful rendition of the song. · Cristina rejoined her sister, and the two sang a song in their own dialect. The melody was very fast and kept increasing which promp- ted the au~ence to clap and become a part of their upliftlng tune. The current advisor for foreign stuclents, Professor Barry Smith, continued the entertainment by sharing a story very dear to him. Through his dramatic portrayal of the story, he shared a lesson he learned while in Thailand. Professor Smith enabled the audience to realize that one should \go anywhere,. have fun,\ a transalation of the ·Thai expression. Linb Diep, Linh Duong, Lilla Ngamtrakulpanit, Hanh Nguyen, Ngoc Le continued the Saturday's International Fashion S~ow The night began with the Charlie Chaplin film, \The Immigrant''. It was a comical representation of the boat ride to the land of opportunity as well as the problems the im- migrant faced. It enabled one to remember that America is made up of many people of all nationalities. . evening with a spectacular fan dance. The fan dance, an Oriental tradition, was per· formed in unison. The dance was beautiful because of the grace of the dancers and the obvious many hours of practice. The dance mesmerized the audience with the precision of the performance. The pink and blue feathers appeared and disappeared with perfect timing making the dance a wonderful treat to the ey~. - ' ' THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCK Iran • The US attacked Iranian oil facilities and vessels in· the Pema,n Gulf. The Pentagon said US forces destroyed two of Iran's oil platfonns, sank or damaged three attack boats and a gunship, and disabled two frigateS that fired missiles at American planes. Th~ Navy ended its search for the missing helicopter and its two cn:.w members. Denmark • The piime.ministet called an election for May 10 and asked voteiS \to take a stand\ on Copenhagen's full paii!iemhip in NATO. Algeria • End of the hijacking of the Kuwait Airline jumbo jet. The Shiite Moslem gunmen, who had' held 31 hostages aboaxd a Kuwaiti jetliner for more than two week!;, agieed to free the captives ~ as&Uiliiices by Algerian officials of safe passage to either :Beirut or Tehran. South Africa • Botha said he would push for black participation in Cabinet level policy making and in the electoralcoilege that selects the president. The PfOPOSal, outlined 1>y the president in an address to Parliament; fel: short .of black demands for full voting rights and to e~~d apartheid. France• Mitterand led the fust round of presidential balloting in France. Winning about 35% of the vote, the Socialist emerged as a strong favorite for .reelections and will face conservative Premier Chinle, who finished a I!U%prisingly weak second with ju~ under 20%; in the May 8 nm off. Elttreme_ right-wing candidate Jean-Marie Le Pen attracted a lllliplisingly large number of votes, about 14.5%. WATSON TRAVELLING FELLOWSHIP WHAT HOW MUCH: WHO HOW Information The Watson Fellowshlp_offers students a year of international travel in the year following their college graduatiQn. You must follow some (non- academic) plan during the year, and spl)nd the year outside North America. $13,000 (OR $18,000 IF YOU ARE MARRIED). the competition is open to any graduating senior at Union, and approximateiy SO other small liberal arts colleges. Submit a 4-s page essay de$criblng yo\Jrself and your propc;sed project two tetters of recommendation, and a transcript. Six to eight UniOn students will be interviewed by .Unloii'a a61ectlon CQIJlfnittee, · and tour will be nominated to the nationaiWatson Foundation. In ~ach of the !Sst two years, Union has had two Watson winners. - 'MEN: ApPJicatlons are due In ea 1 rty Octobe~~!e~ ~~~Y 0 Y.,:o 198 u n 9 eed to atart plaiuiinsu~w.. Wii'li'KII'iVfH be annou• ......,,n Mill'\ • · . · 'MN · · ·If you ne&d ask, maybe you •houldh't, aJ)ply. Altem~YB!f, you could wr4:~~£tLOWSHIP .INFORMATION~L MEETING .... ·JIIel!n(lar. '\'' ·.z, 1111 • nz. s~1111 Selene• . . ' . ·1:30·ptll . ' . . ·ar'ld . .-.e ... ~ .- ~· ~lciadna. _Un~cMt. ~ wlmtfa.lf you .. - . ~·eM Iii~ W·aurtltlihl h·IJ1IMiici ·.-:PrOt.~'\' SS 10t •. e.dl ofthe - . . . --~Otilit1,hiflr-4:~~o;_· ' ,, ' ._ ' . •' :- :~·· :· ·'· • ~·-- , .. > . -- •. . r.., = . . International Issue by Aime Simon How do you envision the world in the year 2000? Eddy Remy ('S6) • Every society will revert to a state of nature. All creatures will patronize it for its magnificence and power. Marlette Tyler ('91) · If the present state of affairs continues in government, then by the year 2000 the world may be on the verge of collapse. Eesides that, tapes would have been totally replaced by the compact disc\ David Gascoyne ('88) • My picture of the world in the year 2000 is not much different from life today. I imagine problex:ns like world hunger, th:reat of war, energy crisis, AIDS ... will be worse. I would lile to think that our technology will continue to grow and combat these problems. More than technology's growth we need people to think, caJC, and take aption to makelife beuet in 2000AD.· Heather Feele;y ('91) - Computers ancl robots will control all aspeCts oflife. .KeUey Mooney ('91) • The world in the year 2000 will be one with increased conflict . between the US and Soviet Union. Automatizalim will also l inc~se, butl think we will.have · tQ walt until th~ year 3000 for a true to life appearance of the \Iet~<m:\ · · · Notm:an · Hale {'S~) . • I en\lisi'oll a woddd milldlet~o jelly filh praylnJ tO televuion aliil w~f¥wml 'the president and apiritualleAckr, ~aVid Leuerman. ~ere wiitbe no w•r oniolence of any. kinct The mind of .nwa wil11Je dull-*1 illto lllbmiukm by au endlesi :bur~ae· of ~Aiemw' .... ~ .. , . . The program continued with a belly dancer. Meridea with her exotic dancing gave one a touch of Middle Eastern culture. She was entertaining and lifted the audience's spirit. · Nadia Duvilaier then en- tertafued with her powerful, moving voice. She sang three songs, two in French and one in I her native, Creole, language. · , Nadia enchanted the audience · . with her meaningful in- terpretation of the French songs. Moreover, Nadia sang without musical ace companiement and remained melodious throughout her pe~formance. Nadia's final song electrified the audience, enticing it to accompany her singing with clapping. An intermission followed., During this time,. one was able to mingle and partake in the many. refreshments provided for the event. Laura and Cristina CalVi, sisters from Italy, began the second half of the program. Laura and Cristina started their· perfonnance by singing a duet. m an Italian dialect. Laura played the guitar while singing which blended harmonio11$ly wi~ the sisters' sweet, forceful The evening culminated witll an international fashion show. The costwnes included typical dress of many countries as wen as period qress of countries throughout the ages. Fur· thermore, each costume was modeled to the ac· companiament of music which fit the origin .of the costume enabling one to get a true feel of the outfit. This added tme drama to the event and en· tertained the audience im· mensely. \Bringing The World To tr,\ the theme of the weekend, was truly accomplished. The ISU · entertained the Union com· munity and added to diver- sifying the campus with cultural eEChange • .All who took part in the weekend should be congratulated on an excellent job, especially Nicolas and LiJia who gUided and organized the weekend. J.ANGUAGE TABLES: M.ONDAY: FRENCH TUESDAY: ITALIAN . WEDNESDAY: GERMAN SPANISH Fntl;Av: Fl·usstAN Meet br the College Center Dining Room at l2;)o p:ni; (ll~ui'an stan. at 12:45 p.m.) ·.

Page 10 ; . ' CONCORDlE:NStS;' 'A5prit 28, J988 ---------Founded at Union Collt!(Je 1877 ------ Deeds, Not Word.s Independent Alternative Encampment has hit the Hamilton campus. Acting as antagonists. to Greek organizations in a debate over the existence of fraternities and sororities, I.A.E. has gained attention by holding a student protest on AI Ham Day,-a day-long eventthat focuses on. Greek organizations and their sponsored events. They have also used the student paper, The Spectator, as a medium for expressing their opinions. Hamiltonts Greek organizations have responded to the attacks in the paper as well-· something similar to what is. presently the topic of discussion on this campus. Bowdoin College is also the site .of heated discussion on this topic. This evidence shows that this issue is not unique to our community. Fraternities are under attack, at Union and abroad. What sets Union off from the rest is that the other campuses' level of debate has not reached a plateau as high as ours in both prominence and profundity; other campuses have not yet reached the general consensus that sexism exists on the college campus and is a problem that merits attention. This editoriaL is directed to fraternities. Opponents of the present Greek system, like Hamilton's l.A.E., are pointing their finger at you. They are basing their arguments on the premise that fraternities are entrenched in a mode of thought. Respond to their criticisms not through words but through action, and prove them wrong, Dismayed as you may be at the crossfire you've found yourselves in, take advantage of this opportunity by making the first move in tackling the issue of sexism and thereby rise above the debate by setting a precedent for the rest of the campus (and collegiate community) to follow. Don't Forum Give Student Offices A way The Student Forum is an influential organization with potential to make significant changes and decisions directly concerning the student body. Interestingly enough, few people ran for office during last year's election. Only two people ran for president. Last year, candidates for vice president of finance, and administration ran unopposed. No one ran for two of the three junior representative spots or for vice-president of academic affairs, necessitating a run-off election. Are you pleased with this year's Forum's accomplishments, or would you like a change of diiection in the future? Either way, you owe it to yourself and the campus to insure that the organization that is meant to represent you does just that. The opportunity is there. Every Student Forum office is open for election. · They include president, the three vice-president positions listed above, junior representative to the Board of Trustees, and three representatives each for the sophomore, junior, and senior classes. Petitions for election are available in the student activities office and are due this Monday, May 2. Elections for such prominent offices should be highly competitive. We encourage you to run and make these positions as prestigious, as they are meartt to be .. All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for ve:rification of the. letter. Names normally w1ll not be w1theld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. LETTERS New Budget Date Inconveniences Clubs To the Edit()l'S: We, the undersigned, would like to qu.estion the recent ad- vancemellt of the due date for club budget proposals to April 29, 1988. ' During. fall tenn, each club was reqllired to send a repre.sents~ive bJ a Fipanc;:e Committee meeting conducted by Geri L:vnn Mackey and Jean Matus. A:.1 this meeting each ,club was given 3· pamphlet entitled \ College Student Governmellt Club and Com- mittee Handbook,\ which contains on page 3 the following: \Spring TerJD ·. Friday of Seventh W~k-Budget Proposals Due.\ If we are riot mistaken, May 13;, 1988 is that date, while April 29 1 1988 is the Friday of fifth week. We would like to know the rationale behind this change Since it has forced our clubs to reschedule our plans for the tenn, inclUding elections of:new officers, and ·planning of budgets. How are we, club of· ficers, supposed. to submit well planned and organized budget proposals (so that we can get a share ofthelimited fUnds} when w:e are only given a week and a half notice of the new date? . we hold that Ql the future the Finance UJIJUIJ1ttee will adhere to their original deadlines so as not to cause inconvenience to -- ·U,S~ Lisa Clark PresideilkChemistry Club .· :EllissaSmilowitz President, Psychology Club Richard Kinsella Secretary-Treasurer., Chemistry Club; Vice President P:sychology Club Student Gets to Heart of Carnegie Conflict To the Editor: I couldnot help but CO!iffient on the deilate over the name of that building that was recently reconstructed. A very large number ·()f students advocate calling thE building ''Car- negie.\ This includes the editorial board of Concordiensis who print~· plea in abnost all of the issues to \Keep the Car- negie Name.\ Even at the school radio station, WRUC, there is a sign posted reminding the Disc Jockeys to announce that the bllilding they are in is called , .. Carnegie.\ Many students argue that the groWlds for this d~bate are historical. The validity of this argument is somewhat d:ubiousasE.J. Craig explains in his letter which states that the building was not named \Carnegie Hall\ until 1970. The !teart of the conflict lies .in the Administration's choice f~»r a name for the SENIORS Commencement is fast ap - proaGhing and if you are interested in speaking at Gradua1ion, please submit a. 1-4 page draft (about 5 minutes) to Mrs. Marra CC- 408. Ttle topic is yours to choose and the deadline for submission is Friday, May 13. Also please include your 10 number only on the speech and enclose a separate sheet of paper with your name, box number, phone number, and ID number. If you wish to sing the alma mater a11d the National An - them, please send your name, box niJrnber and telephone · number to Mrs. Marra CC-408 before Monday, May 16 and you will be notified about an audition .. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis A reappointment review is belng conducted for Assistmt Professor Kurt Holloc:her of the Geology Departinent. Anyone who would like to comment on Professor Hollocher's teaching, scholarly activity or college service is invited to provide written or or!ll testimony to the review committee, which consim of Professor T ~c. Werner (Chemistry), Pro- fessor Phil Snow (Civil Engineering) and Professor John Bayer (Biology). building, that being \The College Center.\ The fact is that for some reason, students see themselves as being apar.t from \The College.'' This is rather curious an<l a problem that administration should address, but won't since the reason for the student alienation is a direct result of their inactions. In so calling the building ''Carnegie Hall,\ stude.nts are really calling it \The ·-Administration Cares Very Little About What Students Think or Feel and Seem Intent on Turning Union ,College into a Business Where Capital Expenditures are Only Made to Increase Revenue Building.\ . Since \Carnegie\ is not the true historical name, and, as E.J. Craigpointsout,he was not a particularly admirable man, students should look for a new name- for the building. The following is a top ten list a la Dave Letterman, but they are by no · means the only possibilities.. .(Maybe Con- cordiensis can use this question for \Talk of the To'Nil\). 1) \The BUilding with the Clean Bathrooms\ 2) '!The Place Where You Need an Executive Order to Post a Sign\ 3) ''The Mail Room and A Whole Lot More\ · 4) \The Building Where You Take Your Life in Your Hands If You Walk Through the Front lioor During The Winter'' 5) \The Mall Without Stores'{ 6) ~'The Place With the Cool Neon Signs' • 7) \'The Place Where Jan Gray Wants Everyone To Eat\ 8) \The Building Where They Thank You For Not Smoking': 9) \Home of The $51.00 Sweatshirt\ 10) \The Building for Upper- classmen Only\ Sincerely, CevmSoling

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, April 28, 1988 Founded al Union College 1877 ------ Deeds, Not Words Independent Alternative Encampment has hit the Hamilton campus. Acting as antagonists to Greek organizations in a debate over the existence of fraternities and sororities, I.A.E. has gained attention by holding a student protest on AI Ham Day, a day-long event th:at focuses on Greek organizations and their sponsored events. They have also used the student paper, The Spectator, as a medium for expressing their opinions. Hamilton's Greek organizations have responded to the attacks in the paper as well- something similar to what is presently the topic of discussion on this campus. Bowdoin College is also the site of heated discussion on this topic. This evidence shows that this issue is not unique to our community. Fraternities are under attack, at Union and abroad. What sets Union off from the rest is that the other campuses' level of debate has not reached a plateau as high as ours in both prominence and profundity; other campuses have not yet reached the general consensus that sexism exists on the college campus and is a problem that merits attention. This editorial is directed to fraternities. Opponents of the present Greek system, like Hamilton's I.A.E., are pointing their finger at you. They are basing their arguments on the premise that fraternities are entrenched in a mode of thought. Respond to their critic isms not through words but through action, and prove them wrong. Dismayed as you may be at the crossfire you've found yourselves m, take advantage of this opportunity by making the first move in tackling the issue of sexism and thereby rise above the debate by setting a precedent for the rest of the campus (and collegiate community) to follow. Don't Forum Give Student Offices A way The Student Forum is an inf1 uential organization with potential to make significant changes and decisions directly concerning the student body. Interestingly enough, few people ran for office during last year's election. Only two people ran for president. Last year, candidates for vice president of finance, and administration ran unopposed. No one ran for two of the three junior representative spots or for vice-president of academic affairs, necessitating a run-off election. Are you pleased with this year's Forum's accomplishments, or would you like a change of direction in the .future? Either way, you owe it to yourself and the campus to insure that the organization that is meant to represent you does just that. The opportunity is there. Every Student Forum office is open for election. They include president, the three vice-president positions listed above, junior representative to the Board of Trustees, and three representatives each for the sophomore, junior, and senior classes. Petitions for election are available in the student activities office and are due this Monday, May 2. Elections for such prominent offices should be highly competitive. We encourage you to run and make these positions as prestigious, as they are meant to be. All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. LETTERS New Budget Date Inconveniences Clubs To the Editcrs: We, the undersigned, would like to question the recent ad- , vancement of the due date for club budget proposals to April 29, 1988. During fan term, each club was required to send a representative to a Finance CoMmittee meeting conducted by Geri Lynn Mackey and Jean Matus. At this meeting each club was given a pamphlet entitled \Union College Student Government Club and Com- mittee Handbook,\ which ' --------------------------~------~---- contains on page 3 the following: ''Spring Term · Friday of Seventh Week-Budget Proposals Due.\ If we are not mistaken, May 13, 1988 is that date, while AprH 29, 1988 is the Friday of fifth week. We would: like to know the rationale behind this change since it has forced our clubs to resc'hedule our plans for the term, including elections of new officers, and planning of budgets. How are we, club of· £icers, supposed to submit well planned and organized budget preposals (so tbat we can get a share of the limited fWlds) when we are only given a week and a half notice ef the new date? We hold that in the future the Finance Colmni.ttee will adhere to their original deadlines so as not to cause incenvenience to us. Lisa Clark President, ChemistryClub Elissa Smilo witz President, PsychologyClub Richard Kinsella Secretary-Treasurer, Chemistry Club; Vice President Psychology Club Student Gets to Heart of Carnegie Conflict To the Editor: I could n<>t belli but co~ent on the debate over the name of that building that was recently reconstructed. A very large number ef students advocate calling the building \Car- negie.\ 1'his includes the editorial board of Concordiensis who print a plea in ahnost all ef the issues to \Keep the Car- negie Name.\ Even at the · school radio station, WRUC, there is a sign posted reminding the Disc Jockeys to announce that the building they are in is called \Carnegie.\ Many students argue that the grounds for this debate are historical. The validity of this argument is somewhat dubious asE.J. Craig explains in his letter which states that the building was not named \Carnegie Hall\ until 1970. The beart of the conflict lies in the Administration's choice for a name for the SENIORS Commencement is fast ap - proaGhing and if you are interested in speaking at Graduation, please submit a 1-4 page draft (about 5 minutes) to Mrs. Marra CC- 408. The topic is yours to choose and the deadline for submission is Friday, May 13. Also please include your ID number only on the speech and enclose a separate sheet of paper with your name, box number, phone number, and ID number. If you wish to sing the alma mater and the National An - them, please send your name, box number and telephone number to Mrs. Marra CC-408 before Monday, May 16 and you will be notified about an audition. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis A reappointxnent review is being conducted for Assistant Professor Kurt Hollocher of the Geology Department. Anyone who would like to comment on Professor Hollocher's teaching. scholarly activity or col:lege service is invited to provide written or oral testimony to the review committee, which consists of Professor T.C. Werner (Chemistry), Pro- fessor Phil Snow (Civil Engineering) and Professor John Boyer (Biology). building, that being \The College Center.\ The fact is that for some reason, students see themselves as being apart from \The College.\ This is rather curious and a problem that administration should address, but won't since the reason for the student alienation is a direct result of their inactions. In so calling the building \Carnegie Hall,\ students are really calling it \The Administration Cares Very little About What Students Think or Feel and Seem Intent on Turning Union College into a Business Where Capital Expenditures are Only Made to Increase Revenue Building.\ Since \Carnegie\ is not the true historical name, and, as E.J. Craig points out, he was not a particularly admirable man, students should look for a new name for the building. The following is a top ten list a la Dave Letterman, but they are Editots·in-Chief News Editor Associate News Editors Feature% Editors by no means the only possibilities. (Maybe Con- cordiensis can use this question for \Talk: of the Town\). 1) \The Building with the Clean Bathrooms\ 2) \The Place Where You Need an Executive Order to Post a Sign\ 3) \The Mail Room and A Whole Lot More\ 4) \The Building Where You Take Your Life in Your Hands If You Walk Through the Front Ji)oor During The Winter\ 5) \The Mall Without Stores\ 6) \The Place With the Cool Neon Signs\ 7) \The Place Where Jan Gray Wants Everyone To Eat\ 8) \The Building Where They Thank You For Not Smoking\ 9) \Home of The $51.00 Sweatshirt\ 10) \The Building for Upper- classmen Only\ Sincerely, Cevi.n Soling Christine Hong. Fi(,)lla Shukrl R. Reed Whidden ·· .. B1ise Food}>\ baniel~nity · Mark H~ughton, Ua$rle Hpffw., \' .· Susan.Sbaf!e-x- · Associate Features Editor Suzanne Shaker .. lntemation.al F~es .Bdltor,s.. . .· Aitne Simon, G~Steinbau:rn Assoc.iate lnte:rn-ati.onal Feamres-,Editors Nic~>1as:Rocl1; iea'l'l:n.e IDaley' ~etttaty P~e.lEdit<:m Lott>:fueon~Ja~n Mesh!.lleki · r~ ... -~·:::;& ·P

~ . . (:ONCORDIE'NSIS~ '. April: ~28, 1988 Page 11 Discrimination Basic to.System, Not Individuals To the Editor: · I .attended a fraternity party on Thursday night .after the· pUblication of the April 21 Con'\ cordiensis and was blankly accused by one brother of being a ltypocrite. I say \blankly\ becaus.e that was hi$ eXJ)re$ion when I asked to be shown the incl;)nsistency between my .beliefs. and actions. He would have only wi$hed that I felt !'very uncomfortable\ for at~ tending a fraternity party after ha.ving written ''atrocious'' tbings about them. He asked me to leave a few times and. finally I did. Untili hear something to the contrary, I will respect his wisb as the expresse<l wiSh of the othei'r brothers of that fraternity who, ·throughout the incident, seemed to condone their brother's behavior by throwing loathsOme stares of their own my way. However., I have a question for him and the other fraternity brothers of this campus: are only those individuals who share yo_ur (individual and group) ideas welcome at your houses? If this is so {and from the response I have gQtten so far, it· is), then anyone who maintains that fraternities welcome anyone and everyon~ to their gatherings is simply mistaken. It seems the spirit of McCarthy is bred into the fraternity system. If someone criticizes an in- stitution .(fraternity, govern- ment, administration), then they sliould be interned or expelled -or, at the very least, made to feel \very un- . comfortable\ (i.e., unwanted). As McCarthy breathed, only .Americans (rE'ad: the voices of Conservatism) are guaranteed free speech wder the Con- stitution. Any advocates of radical changes are, at worse, ~nemies of the majority and, at best, unpatriotic (loathsome). If I clafin that the fraternity system is a se:iQst and racist institution, it does not mean that I find any of its members morally corrupt. Just th~ contrary: I find that the system has a corrosive effect on the individuals. However, I will not retract my criticisp1 of the fraternity system sii:nply bec~Juse I believe that there are good people-without sexist and- or racist attitudes, personable, even generous--who live at fraternity houses. In this letter, I will offer my own argUments (not opinions) for the assertion that the fraternity syst;em on C8:PlpUS is sexist and racist and provides a setting for possible violence against women. I invite everyone to decide for himself whether these claims are--in partorin whole---justified. For the sake of clarity, I have posed several questions that seem to address the major criticisms of my article and; more importantly, the larger issue of racism•sexism on campus. ·1. Are fratemlties racist? In policy, no. In practice, yes. The process of becoming a brother involves pledges to undergo a ritual test of allegiance and desire. llowever, in my_ ex- perience, the selection process has more to do with who the would be brothers are than on the degree of eothUSiasin they exhibit. Each .frat is after a general. image of \material\ that iS characteJ:ized by a (limited) range of a person's style of dress an <I: .comportment. I think this is obvious; the q.uestion is : is it discriminatory? I findthat it is discriminatory since anyone 'Who does not conform to these conventions is discouraged from joining or even considering to join these groups. In practiee, fratemi,ties do not jUst ''pick who they want to live with,~' they discriminate. Fraternities discaurage the \otber''- .. be it Hispanics. blacks, Jews or whites-from P.1edging if they do not \fit in.\ Application procedure aside, as they exist on U1:is campus as resident houses, fraternities segregate the student population into White-Jew- black-Hispanic divisions. Exactly how much the fraternity system contributes to segregation at Union is debatable. 2.. Are fraternities sexist? \Being male'' is a requirement for_ enjoying the bonds of friendship to be had in a fraternity. In policy and practice, this is sexism. Selection process aside, it seems to me that wherever males congregate together and women are expl~citly excluded, the circumstance is one in which all present may, if they so wish, exercise the \freedom of defamation.\ They are free to hold morally reprehensible positions, make chauvinistic remarks, and generally defame members Gf the opposite sex without having to answer for their views. O.K., people will do and say what they want . regardless of where or with whom they live. However, if you have lived in a co-ed dorm or shared an apartment with women, then you know that there is a certafu awareness (i.e., of a woman's right to. be considered an equal among men) that is forced into male consciousness if not by the protests than by th.e very presence of women. 3. Do fraternities provide a settblg for potential harm to women? In any enclosed space whiCh has a few kegs on tap, there is a danger that violence could occur- .. to anyone. However, when this violence happens in a fraternity, I believe there is a great likelihood that it will go un- punished by the resident tribunal or by the Dean of Students. The reason violence occurs is because individuals feel relatively safe within the en- clost;ld corridors of their house- more than that--within the company of people who. have pledge their unqualified sup- pOrt. 'lbe reason violence goes unpunished is because, quite simply, individuals in a fraternity find-it eaaier to sway one another into agreement (inte tUrning their heads the other way) by invoking group allegiances. When an individual acts with the confidence of a large group, I believe s-he acts with the confidence (or backing) of that group. Brothers will prot~ct and even support brothers in order to assure the survival of the group even If this comes at the great cost of their honesty and integrity. In effect, without an institution in 1place, there are only individuals acting on their own. When a fraternity is somehow involved, it gets tricky. If a good service is rendered on the part of the fraternity by some of !ts members, then we shouldcreditthe fraternity (one point in favor). If something basi happens (date rape, gang rape, accidental death), then it is no longer the fault of the fraternity but the individuals involved-\bad apples\ we are told (another point in favor). ResponsibUity for action of indiViduals (good and bad) is t}lus accepted or deflected. 4. Do you really believe what you are sa~g or are you just trying to 'agitate'? My ob- servations of the fraternity system do not come from a ,bad personal experience of them. I have enjoyed them for the good things they offer; however, I am not blind to what is, to me, a major cause of segregation at Union. The reason that the largely homogeneous student population on this campus becomes segregated is because whites and non-whites are separated at the beginning of the four years-Channeled ·into this and that fraternity- sorority--and henceforth are removed from the each other's circulation. From the word \freshman the student population at U.C. begins to divide; both minorities and 'the majority' contain themselves to small groups. There are so many fraternities on this campus all with relatively small mem- berships (compared to Hamilton, Hobart) that people are easily sealed . off from the rest of the population. There is no occasion, save for classes, for the two groups to interact socially. If you object to this claim-saying that the fault lies in the original ad- missions process (which at- tracts so few minorities at U.C. to begin with), when it seems this only pushes the question back. The reason why U.C. is not attractive to minorities is perhaps because the campus is so segregated. Unless I heard wrong; U.C. accepts more_ qualified minority students than qualified minority accept Union. 5. Is it fair to criticize the fraternity when you are not a prt of it-when you have never felt what it is like to have a fraternal bond for life? A cult can easily justify its existence to itself by reference to the great experience to be had by being a member. This should not serve as a justification of its ills (The clan of Jim Jones withstanding). 6. Po your ·arguments apply to sororities as well? Absolutely. Sincerely, Chidsey Dickson '88 Ushers Needed For Commenc.ement JUN~ 12, ~9ss Preascsc~~08 Marra ~LETTERS ·Tolerate All Attitudes To the Editor: studies be done (or found if already done) • or that a Well, I Checked again and yes; sexismometer be invented. me and Union College are still Dickson adds that I ap- in America (although I still parently tolerate sex:ist at~ don't feel safe emough to go very titudes, ~lieving them to have long without ehecking). And no consequences. Let me state yes, the fraternity-sorority for the record that again he has system--that veritable distorted the intention of my scapegoat...,is still under attack, words and that I do not believe this time by a, knight atop a sexist attitudes ·to be con· neutered zebra-~Chidsey sequence-free. However, since I Dickson. am in America and an Although I believe many of American, I will defend to the Chidsey's conclusions (in his . death an individual's right to letter of April21) to be based on freely hold and epxress' his-her \voodoo'' reasoning, I am attitudes-even if I .disagree happy to respond, since with them. When people start ignoring beliefs because of defining the opinions and at- disagreement with content and titudes of others as intolerable analytic process (like Dickson's and thus, ·beliefs· to be decision to disregard Pat eradicated, Who's going to hold DiCerbo's letter) is like plan- their ·beliefs accowtable? -I ting a seed from which only don't agree with what neo-Nazis intolerance can grow. I write have to say, for example, but this letter solely to defend the I'll be damned if I'm going to sit fratemtiy-sorority system. by while others, believing With regard to Chidsey's themselves more righteous, deny them their freedom to comments on my letter of April bell h t th h 11 th 14, let· me first of all state that I eve w a ever e e ey bell h h ft . k want to. So, yes, Chidsey, I eve e · as o en msta. en believe we should tolerate the fact for .his own personal sexist and every other attitude opinion· He believes my except one-that which says we statement that fraternities and should stop tolerating certain sororities are \sources of attitudes. It is education and diverse social interaction\ to be persuasion, not intolerance, \absolutely ridiculous\ since that is the answer to this ''beer-pong, pool, foos ball, and problem. · loud music provide anything Dickson's concluding· but ... 'diverse social in·. suggestion that fraternities and teraction' ·\ Well, Chidsey, the sororities be integrated so as to last time I cheeked fraternities include members of both sexes, and sororities provided an all races, and religions sounds awful lot more than just beer like a case of acute pong, foos, pool, and loud dreamlariditis. Though not music. I suppose not, but would fatal, this affliction has been you call Lobster Bakes, Clam known to lead to the Bakes, Suitcase parties, for- dissemination of wildly mals, top-shelf jazz parties, unrealistic propositions. To innumerable band and theme suggest that the Greek system parties, as well as formal as we now know it to be dinners (invitation only) abolished for reasons of sexism examples of diverse social and racism, yet to acknowledge interaction? Even with this that the causes of its dissolution anything-but-exhaustive list, could very well still exist and with my admission that despite its abolition is absurd. fratel!lities and sororities we~e When does the abolition train certamly n~t . t~e e!ld-~ m stop Chidsey? Probably not campus soCLal life, ~t 1~ ap- with the end of sexism since you parent that. y~ur claun 1s the . appear not to know whi<!_h in- absolutely ndiculous one. stitutions will effect that goal Dickson als.o claims that anyway. You· can't simply start fraternities practice a policy of abolishing institutions as if subtle discrim..ination against you're in some sort of trial-and- minorities with regard to ad- error experiment. If the Greek mission to their functions. He system was the source from fails to state whether he which all sexism in this world believes sororities also stemmed, then the abolition of it discriminate in this fashion. He would be proper; yet the roots writes: ·~ ... very, very few of sexism run so much deeper minorities attend these parties that to call for the abolition of despite their (fraternities') the Greek system reeks of pledge policy of non- personal vindictiveness and discrimination/' Well, Chidsey, extreme myopia. maybe that's because very, To conclude, it seems that very few .minorities attend Dickson doesn't \think that Union College; I suggest you these are real problems at take this problem up with the Union\ nor wants them admis.sions department. \confronted seriously,\ since he Furthermore, the last time I himself is not willing \to forgo checked, women were con- the free beer that is to be had,\ . sidered a mino-rity group, and and still attends fraternity there usually is no shortage of functions. I find this most them at your average frater- hypocritical-or were you at- nity-sorority ftmction. tempting to make inroads to At this time I would. like to moderate elements? Maybe you clarify my statement as to the ~?und yourself drawn ~,o ~ur existence of sexism on this mor~Uy repugnant In- campus. I stat-ed that sexism stitu~IOn.s for some de~~r­ occurs in \both fraternities and sonalizat10n and monotony to- . . . '' go\? soront1es · ; I made no · statement or implication as to the degree to which it existed in either (as Dickson's essay suggests). I do not believe that sexism occurs -equally irt both, . but I also believe the point to be moot; what sexism that occurs in eaCh is not the result of the institution. Dickson con· veniently disregards the fact that seXUm occurs in co-ed campus organi2ations .and ev-en on campuses which do not have a Gteek system. 'lb.e degree to whicb. it exists on these cam- puses or in co-ed institutions I do not know; I suggest that Still Irritated at Intolerance · Robert Wilder Get a clue. Get an opinion. Read Concordiensis News Analysis Page Two. J ..

CONCORDIENSfS, April 28, 1988 Page 11 Discrimination Basic to System, Not Individuals To the Editor: I attended a fraternity party on Thursday night after the publication of the April 21 'Con· cordlensls and was blankly accused by one brother of being a hypacrite. I say \blan~y\ becaus,e that was his expression when I asked to be shown the inconsistency between my beliefs and actions. He wollld have enly wished that I felt \very uncomfortable\ for at- tending a fraternity party after having written \atrocious\ things about them. He asked me to leave a few times and finally I did. Until I hear something to the contrary, I will respect his wish as the expressed wish of the other brothers of that fraternity who, throughout the incident, seemed to condone their brother's behavior by throwing loathsome stares of their own my way. However, I have a question for him and the other fraternity brothers of this campus: are only those individuals who share your (individual and group) ideas welcome at your houses? If this is so (and from the response I have gotten so far, it is), then anyone who maintains that fraternities welcome anyone and everyon~ to their gatherings is simply mistaken. It seems the spirit of McCarthy is bred into the fraternity system. If someone criticizes an in- stitution (fraternity, govern- ment, administration), then they should be interned or ex:}Jelled -or, at the very least, made to feel \very un- - comfortable\ (i.e., unwanted). As McCarthy breathed, <Jnly Americans (re>ad: the voices of Conservatism) are guaranteed free speech under the Con- stitution. Any advocates of radical changes are, at worse, enemies of the majority and, at best, unpatriotic (loathsome). If I claim that the fraternity system is a sexist and racist institution, it does not mean that I find any of its members morally corrupt. Just the contrary: I find that the system has a corrosive effect on the individuals. However, I will not retract my criticiSPI of the fraternity systeni simply because I believe that there are good people-without sexist and- or racist attitudes, personable, even generous--who live at fraternity houses. In this letter, I will offer my own arguments (not opiniQns) for the assertion that the fraternity system on campus is sexist and racist and provides a setting for possible violence against women. I invite everyone to decide for himself whether these claims are-in part or in whole-justified. For the sake of clarity, I have posed several questions that seem to address the major criticisms of my article and, more importantly, the larger issue of racism-sexism on campus. 1. Are fraternities racist\/ In policy, no. In practice, yes. The process of becoming a brother involves pledges to Wldergo a ritual test of allegiance and desire. However, in my ex- perience, tne selection process has more to do with who the would be brothers are than on the degree of enthusiasm they exhibit. Each frat is after a general image of \material\ that is characterized by a (limited) range of a person's sty-le of dress aad comportment. I think this is obvious; the question is: is tt discriminatory? I find that it is discriminatory since anyone who does not conform to these conventions is discouraged from joining or even considering to join these groups. In practice, fratemities do not just ''pick who they want to live with,\ they discriminate. Fraternities discourage the \other\ --be it Hispanics, blacks, Jews or whites-from pledging if they do not \fit in.\ Application procedure aside, as they exist on this campus as resident heuses, fraternities segregate the student population into white-Jew- black-Hispanic divisions. Exactly how much the fraternity system contributes to segregation at Union is debatable. 2. Are fraternities sexist? \Being male\ is a requirement for enjoying the bonds of friendship to be had in a fraternity. In policy and practice, this is sexism. Selection process aside, it seems to me that wherever males congregate together and women are explicitly excluded, the circumstance is one in which all present may, if they so wish, exercise the \freedom of defamation.\ They are free to hold morally reprehensible positions, make chauvinistic remarks, and generally defame members c.f the opposite sex: without having to answer for their views. O.K., people will do and say what they want regardless of where or with whom they live. However, if you have lived in a co-ed dorm or shared an apartment with women, then you know that there is a certain awareness (i.e., of a woman's right to be considered an equal among men) that is forced into male consciousness if not by the protests than by the very presence of women. 3. Do fraternities provide a setting for potential harm to women? In any enclosed space which has a few kegs on tap, there is a danger that violence could occur--to anyone. However, when this violence happens in a fraternity, I believe there is a great likelihood that it will go un- punished by the resident tribunal or by the Dean of Students. The reason violence occurs is because individuals feel relatively safe within the en- closed corridors of their house- more than that--within the company of people who have pledge their unqualified sup- port. The reason violence goes unpWIIshed is because, quite simply, individuals in a fraternity find it easier to sway one another into agreement (into tUrning their heads the other way) by invoking group allegiances. When an individual acts with the confidence of a large group, I believe s-he acts with the confidence (or backing) of that group. Brothers will protect and even support brothers in order to assure the survival of the group even If this comes at the great cost of their honesty and integrity. In effect, without an institution in place, there are only individuals acting on their own. When a fraternity- is somehow involved, it g~ts tricky. If a good service is rendered on the part of the fraternity by some of its members, then we should credit the fraternity ( ane point in favor). If something ba$1 happens (date rape, gang rape, accidental death), then it is no Ienger the fault of the fraternity but the individuals involved-\bad apples\ we are told (anether point in favor). Responsibility for action of individuals (good and bad) is thus accepted or deflected. 4. Do you really believe what you are saying or are you just trying to 'agitate'? My ob- servations of the fraternity system do not come from a bad personal eKperience of them. I have enjoyed them for the good things they- offer; however, I am not blind to what is, to me, a major cause of segregation at Union. The reason that the largely homogeneous student population on this campus becomes segregated is because whites and non-whites are separated at the beginning of the four years-channeled into this and that fraternity- sorority--and henceforth are removed from the each other's circulation. From the word \freshman the student population at U.C. begins to divide; both minorities and 'the majority' contain themselves to small groups. There are so many fraternities on this campus all with relatively small mem- berships (compared to Hamilton, Hobart) that people are easily sealed off from the rest of the population. There is no occasion, save for classes, for the two groups to interact socially. If you object to this claim-saying that the fault lies in the original ad- missions process (which at- tracts so few minorities at U.C. to begin with), when it seems this only pushes the question back. The reason why U.C. is not attractive to minorities is perhaps because the campus is so segregated. Unless I heard wrong, U.C. accepts more qualified minority students than qualified minority accept Union. 5. Is it fair to criticize the fraternity when you are not a part of it-wllen you have never felt what it is like to have a fraternal bond for life? A cult can easily justify its existence to itself by reference to the great experience to be had by being a member. This should not serve as a justification of its ills (The clan of Jim Jones withstanding). 6. Do your argwnents apply to sororities as well? Absolutely. Sincerely, Chidsey Dickson '88 Ushers Needed For Commencement JUNE 12 , 1988 Please See Mrs. Marra ~- CC-408 LETTERS ' -- Tolerate All Attitudes To the Editor: Well, I checked again and yes, me and Union College are still in America (although r still don't feel safe enough to go very long without checking). And yes, the fraternity-sorQrity system--that veritable scapegoat-is still under attack, this time by a knight atop a neutered zebra--Chidsey Dickson. Although I believe many of Chidsey's conclusions (in his letter of April 21) to be based on \voodoo\ reasoning, I am happy to respond, since ignoring beliefs because of disagreement with content and analytic process (like Dickson's decision to disregard Pat DiCerbe's letter) is like plan- ting a seed from which only intolerance can grow. I write this letter solely to defend the fraterntiy-sorority system. With regard to Chidsey's cemments on my letter of April 14, let me first of all state that I believe he has often mistaken fact for his own personal opinion. He believes my statement that fraternities and sororities are ''sources of diverse social interaction'' to be \absolutely ridiculous\ since \beer-pong pool, foos ball, and loud music provide anything but. .. ' diverse social in- teraction'.\ Well, Chidsey, the last time I checked fraternities and sororities provided an awful lot more than just beer pong, foos, pool, and loud music. I suppose not, but would you call Lobster Bakes, Clam Bakes, Suitcase parties, for- mals, top-shelf jazz parties, innumerable band and theme parties, as well as formal dinners (invitation only) examples of diverse social interaction? Even with this anything-but-exhaustive list, and ·with my admission that fraternities and sororities were certainly not the end·all in campus social life, it is ap- parent that your claim is the absolutely ridiculous one. Dickson also claims that fraternities practice a policy of subtle discrimination against minorities with regard to ad- mission to their functions. He fails to state whether he believes sororities also discriminate in this fashion. He writes: \ ... very, very few minorities attend these parties despite their (fraternities') pledge policy of non- discrimination.\ Well, Chidsey, maybe that's because very, very few minorities attend Union College; I suggest you take this problem up with the admissions department. Furthermore, the last time I checked, women were con- sidered a minority group, and there usually is no shortage of them at your average frater- nity-sorority fWlction. At this time I would like to clarify my statement as to the existence of sexism on this campus. I stated that sexism occurs in \both fraternities and sororities\; I made no statement or implication as to the degree to which it existed in either (as Dickson's essay suggests). I do not believe that sexism occurs equally in both, but I also believe the point to be moot; what sexism that occurs in each is not the result of the institution. Dickson con- veniently disregards the fact that seXism occurs in co-ed campus organizations and even on campuses which do not have a Greek system. The degree to which it exists on these cam- puses or in co-ed instit\ltions I do not know; I suggest that studies be done (or found if already done), or that a sexisrn()meter be invented. Dickson adds that I ap· parently tolerate sexist at· titude.s, believing them to have no conseqaences; Let me state for the record that again he has distorted the intention of my words rutd that I do not believe sexist attitudes to be con- sequence-free. However, since I am in America and an American, I will defend to the death an individual's right to freely llold and epx:ress his-her attitudes-even if I disagree with tllem. When people start defining the opinions and at- titudes ef others as intolerable and thus, beliefs to be eradicated, who's going to hold their beliefs accountable? 1 don't agree with what neo-Nazis have to say, for example, but I'll be damned if I'm going to sit by wlli:le others, believing themselves more righteous, deny them their freedom to believe whatever the hell they want to. So, yes, Chidsey, I believe we should tolerate the sexist and every other attitude except one-that which says we should stop tolerating certain attitudes. It is education and persuasion, not intolerance, that is the answer to this problem. Dickson's concluding suggestion that fraternities and sororities be integrated so as to include members of both sexes, all races, and religions sounds like a case of acute dreamlarlditis. Though not fatal, this affliction has been known to lead to the dissemination of wildly unrealistic propositions. To suggest that the Greek system as we now know it to be abolished for reasons of sexism and racism, yet to acknowledge that the causes of its dissolution could very well still exist despite its abolition is absurd. When does the abolition train stop Chidsey? Probably not with the end of sexism since you appear not to know whi~h in- stituti()ns will effect that goal anyway. You can't simply start abolisl1ing institutions as if you're in some sort of trial-and- error experiment. If the Greek system was the source from which sll sexism in this world stemmed, then the abolition of it would I:Je proper; yet the roots of seXism run so much deeper that to call for the abolition of the Greek system reeks of perso!lal vindictiveness and extreme myopia. To ~onclude, it seems that Dick~n doesn't \think that these are real problems at Union•• nor wants them \confr()nted seriously,\ since he himself is not willing \to forgo the free beer that is to be had,\ and still attends fraternity functi<»ns. I find this most hypocr-itical-or were you at- temptillg to make inroads to moderate elements? Maybe you found yourself dravm to our \mot·ally repugnant\ in- stitutions for some deper- sonalization and monotony \to- go\? Still Irritated at Intolerance Robert Wilder Get a clue. Get an opinion. Read Concordiensis News Analysis Page Two.

Page 12 CONCORDlENSIS, April 28, 1988 LETTERS Removal of Column Applauded Need for Women's Studies Clarified To the Editor: In a time when sexism and mal~female relationships are being examined Closely as to hoW they relate to the Union community, the column, ''Just Ask How,\ has chosen to take a backward leap in furthering awareness of this problem. The column not only attacks the efforts of concerned students to prevent seXiSm, but calls into question its appropriateness as a component of Concordiensis. In the column, remarks by Howie Lazar, its author, con- 'cerning the performing of \tasteless and. perverse\ sexual acts warrants his swift and permanent removal from the staff ·of ConcorcliellSis. Mr. Lazar has· taken a position of complete vulgarity, stupidity, and irresponsibility, in com- plete disagreement with all efforts · of the college com- munity to educate students about and to further improve sexist attitudes on campus. Mr. Lazar should consider this. Soft rape a~:~ defined by Dr. Andrea Parrott of Cornell University is \coercion used to engage a victim in intercourse against his-her will.\ From this definition, is not Mr. Lazar promoting soft rape? Does he realize the implications of promoting soft rape? Through its Residence Life programs, Student Affairs ·To the Editors: prog·rams, and Greek organizations, the college is I wish to address some diligently working toward : questions raised in the April 14 improved attitudes and · letter from Carl Friedrich, who awareness on campus. In fact, is annoyed at the existence of a Concordlensis has devoted program like Women's Studies. much space toward open It is true., as )le writes, that discussion of the problem. It is Women's Studies is not intended in this spirit of quality jour- as an attack on men, but his nalism and an open forum of . letter may otherWise .spread expression that ConcordieDBis some confusion about the actual was awarded a very pretigious . ~myoses of Women's Studies at award just rec~ntly.. . mon. Although I initially The .film series to which' he questioned how a blatantly objects was . supported. by a abhorred article could be Ford Foundation grant to published and do not support gender-balance the curriculwn this decision, I am encour.aged at formerly all .. male in· by the efforts of the Con· stitutions. U~ion is a recipient cordlensls Editors to take swift along with Yale,. Princeton, and appropriate measures to Colgate, Dartmouth, Amherst, prevent a reoccWTence of this and Williams. All .of these in- situation. The Editors have stitutions have Women's shown great concern in studies programs. They were protecting the integrity of the organized because faculty C8Jlle paper which unfortunately was . to be. concerned over the last 15 compromised by this collUllD. . years about lacWlae and biases in traditional learning, which was that as taught much of the hunfanities and social sciences were .already implicitly \men's studies,'' Thus,. for example, ip psychology, prevailing theories of moral development were based on st~dj.es of male sample populations. New studies that focused on women's ex- periences called the ·original theories into question. SimUarly, in American history, accounts of antebellum reform or the progressive era that neglected the crucial r<>les played by women. came to be seen as jpcomplete. The new scholarship invQlves an exciting process of re-examining assumptions and sometimes literally re-visi()lung the map Df knowledge.·. . · Women's Studies at Union is designed to help faculty ·in· corporate this new material into existing courses, to add new courses that deal specifically with women, an_d to encourage students to join in the .process of analysis and learning. Perhaps when · the study of women and gender have been thoroughly integraied into the main body of . scholarship, W.om. en's Studies. ·pro. ~grams will ,no longer be needed and will wither away. But right now· they are much needed, and events and courses sponsored by Women's Studies can be a .good forum in. which to consider Some · of tht;J questions Carl Friedrich seems to be troubled about. For example, under what circumstances and by what legal reasoning may single-se\ organi2ations be deemed· discriminatory? ·This issue has been discussed in my History 111 and will be discussed in Political Science 89. Men are welcome in these classes.and.at the film series, where a nwnber of lively exchiUlges · have oc- curred. I hope I have helped to clear up any misconceptions about Women''s Studies at Union. Anyone · who has questions or comments should feel free to contact me. FayeDudden · History Department Since the Editors of Con- was, until then, ahnost ex- cordiensis wish to maintain this elusively the study of men, and standard of excellence,· I ap- . • white men at that. The problem plaud their decision to per- ________ _:_: ______ -'-----;\\'-------.....- ......... ------------ manently remove the column Progressing. Roles Warrant Serious. Attention \Just Ask How\ from the paper. The student body does not condone any attitude or expression thereof that promotes rape and sexism. MarkG. Webster'88 To the Editor: In the April 14 is~ue of Con· cordlensls, Carl Friedrich, Jr. Comment Counterproductive · questioned the legitimacy of the Women's Studies program. His .. attack no doubt reflected the opinion of man;v members of the campus commWlity who are unfamiliar with the real dif. ferences in the quality of life for men and women in American society today. But this Wl· derstanding is a necessary first step if women are to achieve. equity in our homes, schools, the work place and Wider the law. tr~ditional male-female roles that, for them at least, it · is optimal. However women are at far greater risk than men if the agreement is broken. Because she, the ex-homemaker, hasn't been an active participant in the paid labor force, a lack of marketable skills constrarns her options to a few low-paying occupations. As more marital agreements fail and divorce rates rise, so do the number o:f impoverished women and childr~n. In 1983.~ 48 percent o:f mothers maintining female- · headed households had incomes below the · poverty lecel. Demographers estimate that 41! percent - 50 percent of this year's marriages will end in divorce. Such statistics raise a variety of issues for legislatures, taxpayers and the courts. The problems will not be solved easily, or withoUt careflll study . nigher paying occupations, earn significantly more than women. T~is does not surprise an · economist. But the persistence of a male-female wage dif- ferential, after an measurable productivity differences have been accounted for, fuels women's clmms that they are subjects of discrimination in the 'labor market. To the Editor: The Student Forum was appalled by the comments made by Howie Lazar in the April 21 issue of Concordiensis The Student Forwn as well as the Student Affairs Council, Academic Affairs Council, Residence Life Office, Dean of Students Office and concerned students groups have tried to bnprove relationships between men and women. In addition, the groups have tried to discourage sexism and· all forms of hwnan degradation, as well as alcohol abuse here at Union College. We believe that the connnent: \When all else fails ... buy her an expensive gift and then get her drunk\ in response to the reader's question, \How can I convince my girlfriend .•. to perform perVerse and tasteless sexual acts,\ is not only irresponsible but also detrimental to all of the positive goals the aforementioned campus organizations have tried to accomplish. The Student Forum members how a comment that nnplies date rape as the answer to a man's .problem could have been approved by the Features Editor and also the Editors-in .. Chief. What is the responsibility of an editor if not to ensure that tasteless and harmful matter does not get printed in Con· cordiensis? · . The Student Forum strongly recommendS that the editorial board review this serious matter and take appropriate action. We think HJust Ask How'' should be terminated. We understand that .this was in· tended as a joke, but we do not believe rape to be fwmy, and we hope Colicordiensls feels the same way. Sincerely, Colleen Adinolfi '88j Senior Representative student Forum ColumnReflectedCampusA.ttitude To the Editor: Last week's colwnn by Howie Lazar has apparently stirted up some .controversy. I agree· that one section of the piece was offensive to some and, not particularly humorous. The critics, however, should remember that the majority of Coneorclleull' audience and the majority of the Student Forum approved, by their silence if not by their votes, the showing of a pornographic film last. tenn. Tbat film decidedly not an attempt at humor. Mr. Lazar's ·column wu an attempt at hWilOI', not meant to be taken seriously, and unfortunately seems to correspond with a prevalent attitude at Union. As a .former news editor and editor-in:.ehief, I know how new editors are a bit overwhelmed · at first, which the critics ·might not understand. 'lhe current editorial board of Concordiensil is the youngest in many years and bas the potential to be the best ever. If they ~e a few mistakes in the beginning because of their youth, they will learn from them and in tum, the pa~r will be strong for the nut few years. David Glliliver'88 PhilosoPhY Forum Presentalon Friday, Aprll29 at 3:30 In Humanities 117 IIOW CAN COMPUTERS CBAIIGE tHEIR MINDS? ... ByAIHL••n ·. \ ~ ltrt1l We.t• a.-~~rcll Cllfter .Ablhctaav .. lebll·lnthlphl~~~· . For ffllftlnfctirMIIDn Clll$14-1884·\ , • • • ,-_ T Labor economist Barbara Bergmann notes that homemaking, an almost Wliversally female occupation, is the single largest occupation in America. Bergmann also groups homemaking among the riskiest of American oc- . cupations-both physically and financially. Spouse abuse is the chief source of physical risk, and a legitimate gender issue, affecting four million women ·annually, based on one recent Justice· Department estimate. The need for both aiding the victims and reducing the rate of abuse is clear, but enduring solutions require an un- _derstanding of the causes of abuse. The traditional (in our lifetimes) family unit includes a husband-breadwinner, wife- homemaker and children. The arrangement amounts to an agreement that he will provide the financial resources, and she will provide the services required to maintain a com .. fortable home environment. If the couple stays together:, this division of labor is a sensible one. Indeed, the couple reveals through their choice of The homemaker's financial well being remains at risk even in retirement. Consider tile Social Security system. if he is qualified to receive $400 per month~ the 50 percent spoWie- benefit rule brings their family entitlement up to $600 per month. He is at no financial risk if the marriage · dissolves. lie can always claim his $400 benefit. If he remarries, he wid his new wife are entitled to tile, full $600 benefit. The ex-wife, meanwhile, is entitled ollly to the 50 percent benefit, or $200 per month. Many women today are choosing careers in · com· bination with, or in place ()f, families. And many economists have examined the labor market behavior of men and women, Men, with more educati~n, experience and ~~~ater representation irt Declining fertility rates may have contributed to, as well as been affected by, dramatic increases in the number of married women · entex\ing tbe labor market .. The rapid entry of women into the labor force On combination with the influx of baby-boomers); changed the shape of the U.S. labor force from an older and more ex- perienced, to a younger and less experienced force. 'As a result of this extraordinarily rapid growth in the U.S. labor force (compared to growth in the stQC~ of capital), real wage and productivity growth stagnated. Sluggish wage and productivity growth may therefore have less to do with a loss in the U.s~ technological advantage, and more to do with transitory demographic changes in the U ;S. labor force. Moreover the prDpensity of married women to stay in the labor force has created a child- care issuethat has attracted the attention of 1988 presidential hopefuls. It appear!! that the changing behavior of women is not only creating legitimate gender issues that are worthy of examination by academics, but issues of- profound soCial, political and economic im- portance. Lilicfa Cavalluzzo Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics \Critiqu~ Out of Line\ tc;~::~e:::,:~~l~!ed;~~ h .~ G ... _ · ali is names in print? Do you really To the Editor: t . at we ree- are ~e · believe that fraternities ac- between 11 pm and 6 am on - Friday and saturday while y- 011 tually warp people into In thbeene past few Weeks, there are .beret, T... reality, we· live ehauvinisti~, sex~crand have ·. several articles in .... , a· 1· ., Th j.,h t Colle. · Ordleoiis. with regard to here, eat here, and function in . m n acs o ose \' a ·. al'e, u....... 1 ck m. 811 v. wavs like a lar.ge family... alreadywerewhenthey arrived the· .uaaa; or · a thereOf, bet- obvio\· •• ,.: , h at ·Union. I definitelY do not ween fraternities and sexism. It . · W>&J; you peopae • a'Ve, coJUI!)ne their actlontJ, but being Is very ~terestlng to note tbat very little idea what tbe in a. fratemit. . , h. 8fJ nothin. . g tu.lo . ·r .. - ~ · .... t~ ..... that tb fraternity \System is abo~,tt o \ o \\\\ &ew are~ . ere In.. A--dellts>wbo choo.H to< live Witb it. Stop atta.;kin& .the is a ccmneetion; none of them 1 __ fr.,... -\ui ..a:.a Greek ~)'Stem so recklesslY or ~tbreetbat I have in mincl, you \\ atcnlalOI.tlB are a wuerQLt take. Yom: ~Cl9U8.\111id·jgnor .. t . inow who they are) are story, b.ut tllere'i!l no way l'D rematbeJie'Wbere. Believe · ·· UIOciatid with any Gre~dc·· have ~~ ~'groUpS. lMng -iJoVemYt,....-.u.. · a:h.en.· ·.:J'. a· _ z=:on· To them 1..., the · toa~ In ·1111. home · ... ,. 1ct moN' ti.u'r._ ~ 10 u ..:.r:~~= l~=.lrf: ··== .... tor_~ fOU,, ·M't llitlM~theoaij'tJale· -A,..:~~Jttl, ·Jilarc~·

CONCORDIENSIS,. April '28, 1988 Page 13 .SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Space Capsule - Space Tourism J3y·MARTYBECK Vacatteu at Dls•ey . Space World, eae week ·family package o:Qly $10,000. That sign may be seen as early as 2000;In ontr . 30 years, many people believe tllat the world .of spt;lce tt·avel will be open .:to miUioils of people. TrW!sports Will carry families into orbit to view the wotld from above for as little as about $2B per· poWld, an amount not that ·much greater than flying the Concord· to Europe~ Test flights on the vehiclethat will provide low .cost. orbital flight rn~y begin as. early as 1995. Th~ project is known as X- 30 or NatiQ!nal Aerospace Plane, a~d. is . being jointly ad- mmlstered by the Defense Department and NASA. President lleagan introduced the project to the American public in 1986. Reagan tollted the vehicle as a supersonic rocket that eould cut ·trans- pacific flights to only three hours. The :Pfoject calls for a space com.-pantes depenQ. on quick ''plane~'tbatcouldreach speeds delivery, and could benefit of U.p to Mach 25, Qr .25 time11 thl' greatly from the great travel ~d of sound. There wo1ild :be speed. three different types. A Colll- mercial plane that would travel The technolilgy is :rtill some wen above the ozone at · o11er distance off, ,but there will. 100,~ feet, at speeds of up t~ surely be low-eost launches for Mach 6, a military plane that tourists early in the next cen· wollld travel at Milch 12, Blld a tury. However, the theme park, single stag.e orbital launeh as well as the hotels in space plane that could reach Macll2:5. that have been. promised' by the The vehicles would be reusable chairman qf Hilton, are quite a and able to- make up to tluee ways off. Building these would flights per week because of the require large structures, most little work that would be likely in geosynchrono..s orbit required to prep for 1aunc}l. At (permanently stationed over present, the military model is one ~pot of Earth), and lots of recf;living the most funding, in ~hielding to protect tourists part. 8$· an element of t,he Stat from the barrage of radiation Wars program. Tbe otller , such a building and its oc- vehicles represent how im- · cupant:;~ would receive. The portant trickle-down technology most ,likely project- would in.,. from the strategic Defense volve materials mined from the In:itiative may be. moon, But, when a pernument Moon-base may be in place as Commercial airlines find this. early as 2020 or 2030, the project plane attractive ~d compani.,s is not impossible. Indeed, With such as Federal Express have the gains the space program shown interest. Fedellal has made .in the last 30 or so E:xpress and other transpH.t years, m~thing is impossible. ·The Minerva Hour The Minerva Committee of Union College Presents:. AMY GUTMANN is a poli1ical theorist an<! professor of politics at Princeton University. She earned a RockeJeller Fellowship, which she served at University of Maryland. She has Justfinished her second book,,- Democratic Education , which considers who has the authority to shape the educaiton of citizens in, a democracy. She earned her Ph.D. at Harvard University. . Thursdays 11 am Alll~ctur:es are in the Union College Center Aud,itorium.AII are welcome. Admission free. For informatioll:~(518} 370-6508. · SOCIETY OF PHYSICS STUDENTS MEETING \ MAY 4,1988 N303 4:30P.M .. MOVIE: \PHYSICS.IN THE 1990'S . AND BEYOND'' cHAPTER ·ELECTIONS ' . RE:F'RESHNlENTS WILL BE .r- .. ' . :;~~- ~>SERVED. - '\:· :..\'\''' From What's S.o Funny About Science by Sidney Harris. ...... --------'l()lltnlEDt\'~':f\. _____ ....,. ____ Io :.;; -~, w '1 ~ i/..1, 0 i. ! r:, ~. ~ 0 0 'c,.-l L ~,. ~~CTAD'C·,O.· PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM \The Solar Corona: a Theorist Confronts Reality\ Professor Richard Wolfson Department of Physics Middlebury College . Place: STEINMETZ HALL ROOM 106 ·Time: THURSDAY, APRIL 28, 1988 4:45 P.M. Refreshments will be served at 4:30 -Note From The Editor~ In order for the Science and Tech no logy page to better cover an different areas of Science we need more participation from all the Engineering and Science Departments. If anyone is interested in writing about recent Scientific Develop- ments in their re~pective areas they sho.u ld contact the Science editor of the Concordiens is: ~r , AnthonyVrondissis 37 0-68,31 ., . · · ··'B·ox-# 2242 · ,,.;, .. NEED PHYSics· .· :T··RAlNlNG?. c'a:ll·. . .. Anthony ~·e ... Vrond_issls. ' '. . ~r. ~ ·: ' ... ~ . ... •. ' · ·· · '!:) ~·o··· ... s· :'a· · 31· ·· a~ \'CJI ,. ' • ' : F<?r .f~i_()f~$1 ... I~ ·.·• ·'~''· ~··i~:~~~:Z~~=~-j1 ' . \

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, April 28, 1988 W .,, ~., · .. - . ~- - .. . . ' 7 Days. Countdown to . ~ . Pippin Bv KATIE BOYD Arts Editor Pippin, this spring's major Montebank's production, opens next Thursday, May 1 at the Nott Memorial Theatre, Pippin, music and lyrics by ·Stephen Schwartz, book by Roger 0. Hirson, is a light musical comedy about the life of Charlemagne's son. Feeling ''empty and vacant\ Pippin searches for fulfillment. His search results in various ad .. ventures and nnsadventures including; fighting in wars, participating in orgies, and falling in love. Pippin ends with a great bang of a climatic anti- climax. Pippin is an extremely am- bitious project for Montebanks·. Theamount.of work involvedin .putting on a mU$ical is in- credible. The cast of Pippin;, 19 Union students, has been in rehearsal for eight weks. Director Handi Goldstein, director of bast year's Godspell, has. been organizing and making preparations for Pippin since October. Still this final week of rehearsal will find the production 11taff swamped with final details. Andy Livernois, the music director, will finiSh work with the band and actors and actresses. Mike Cseh will rush to finish the set, as Vera Orlock will put the finishing touches on the dances she has choreographed especially for Pippin. In this next week the set wiU be ·completed, the actors and actresses will polish the last of the rough spots, the lighting will be set, and costumes sown. Finally on Thu_rs~ay Pippin will open. P1ppm should play to a full' American Realist Jack Beat to Lecture By JAN GOLDSTEIN Arts Editor Union College is fortunate to present Jack Beal, American Realist, to lecture on May fourth at the College Center. The lecture will begin at 8 p.m. Beal' s paintings can be viewed in galleries throughout the United States. Professor Walter Hatke, Head · of VisuaVStudio Arts at Union feels \Jack :Seal is one of the more · important American artists of today.\ He· also disclosed that according to a survey taken two yers ago by the American Academy and Institute of Arts & Letters, Jack Beal is the artist whose work is most sought after by museums and galleries in America. In 1965 Beal had his .first one- man exhibition at the Allan Frumkin Gallery. Currently Owenasl<ed his friend Larry for a small favor:. Self portrait Jack Seal Beal's wo;k is being displayed at the Frumkin I Adams Gallery and contained in the collections of the National Gallery in Washington D.C., the Whitney Museum of Modern Art in New York, and the· Art Institute of Chicago. The lecture is free and open to the public. This Week's On Campus Movies ThrowMommaFromTheTrain Fri., Sat., Sun. 7, 9,11 Mash Tuesday 9, 11 Good ,the Bad and the Ugly Wednesday7&10 \A COCKEYED MASTERPIECE!\ -Joseph Morgenstern. Newsweek An lngo .Preminger Production c. olo.r by ~E LUXEs o{Rl Pa~avlswn® Become Famous Among The New Students Next Year ... MALE CAMP COUNSELORS, WANTED Draw The Design For ORIENTATION T-SHIRTS ? • The theme fQI\ Orientation '8818 ''That's What I Like About U\ Entlres ar~ to be submitted to Box 1 ozg by May 4, 1988 A prize will be awarded to the winner and the design will appaar on approximately 125 T-shirtsl Sponsored by the Orientation Committee. R.I. Co-Ed Overn~ght Camp For More Information CALL ANDREA . X.4209 ARTS & FILMS The cast of Pippin house •. Don't miss out, see it! Go opening night. Go on a weekday mght. Go on the weekend. When the Ught;&.. go up the work will pay off and all of Union should be at the Nott to enjoy the performance~ Oates of Performances; May 5, 6 7 & May 11, 12, 13, 14 at 8:00 (9:30 on May 7th). Something New and Amazing in Schenectady: Proctor's Too ByCHIAPET As Proctor's Theatre battles bankruptcy with their Million Dollar Marathon, they a:re expanding in a new direction. Using a grant from the New York State Council of the Arts and funding from Northeast Savings, Proctor's has · con- v~rted a 80 year old warehouse on Broadway (behind Proctors) . .into a. 120 seat studio theatre. The new theatre, Proc.tor's Too, is embarking on a four week trial seasop of bringing new and innovative performers to the Capital Region. The first performance of this trial season was nothing ·less than amazing. Mitchell Rose and Diane Eptstein are a dance duo who take modern dance and bend it enough to create an exhilarating and hilarious performance. The seven dances of the show were choreographed by Mr. Rose, who also created the four \Entr'actes\ between num· bers. There was hardly a moment that the audience was sitting still; as the antics of Mr. Rose and Ms. Epstein kept them on the edge of their seats laughing. The more notable numbers of the evening included Pas de Proletariat,· a dance. depicting a working class couple and their daily grind. This was per- formed to music by Rossini (the title of the piece was unknown}. Also outstanding was Opera Nuova. Created with a grant from the National Endownment for the Arts, this dance presents \a less static presentation ()f the aria.\ Using music by Verdi, Mr. Rose and Ms. Ep- stein made quirky motions and unusual ge~tutes to reduce tbe \pomposity of grand opera\ a notch or two. The highlight of ttf'e evening was· Son of Walk· people. Created by Mr. Rose with a grant from the New York State Council on the Arts, this dance uses four \volunteers\ from the audience. Each volunteer is given a walkman which contains a tape of in· struetions for the volunteer to follow.,, These. tn~tructions tell the; volunte~r where te move to on the stage, what\. body gestures to do, and so forth. It was the funniest thing to see these volunteers prance about the stage while Mr. Rose and Ms. Epstein performed among them. It was truly a sight to be seen-! Future performances at Proctor's Too include Paul Zaloon on April 29 and 30th, David Cale on May 13 and 14 and the Theatre de la Jeune Lune on May 20 and 21. At this next performance, Paul Zaloon brings his Theatre of Trash to the stage where he will use trash and junk to repres~nt \a vision of a nation being con- sumed by its own refuse.\ ·All performance . begin at 8:00p.m. {with the exception ()f April29, which has two shows: one at 7:30 and one at 10:00 ptm.) Tickets are $7.50 or $5.00 with a student !.D. and are available at the Proctor's Box Office or at. the door. These performances are entertainmg to all walks of life, not just connoisseurs· of theatre (the writer of this article doesn't know a thing about dance, yet had the time of his life). Only ·a ten minute stroll from campus, Proctor's: Too is definitely the best entertainment to be foUild .anywhere in the Capital Region. Battles, Barbarous and Bloody PIPPIN Coming Soon. to the Nott Memorial Theatre All God's C·hillun Got Wlng.s ... A story of unforgivable desire

CONCORDIEN$IS, April ·28, 1988 Page 15 • 1JJJ.· ~ .· _;_. _·_·. .· _·_. ~-_, :· - .. 1-• ' ' . : ~ ,• ·.p - ..... ' ,, . • _,·. ' 'i -~ .. )., . . . . - . · c·· · c· ··r b Lawton · -~•v•c ._ -··- u ._ · Hosts V oc·al .Spectacular By LEATA JACJ{SON The Maria C. Lawton Civic and Cultural Club of Albaliy dedicated its spring event to, among other groups, the UnioCJn College Gospel Ensemble a11d the Union College STEP program. The M~C. Lawt()n Club \was organized April1919, for the purpose of ptomotiJ!g community servic~. educational advancement, race relatiopships and self- development.'' The club has a special interest in the presentation of cultural events in t}le Capital _ District. The other groups included were the M.C~ Lawton Girls ·and B()ys Clqb; Albany Girl~ Club, Dreamers; Area Church. SU!l- day Schools, NAACP Yoath Chapter, andUBA. . This year's event was held at the New Yor~ State. Musetliil Auditorium this past . Sunday evening~ 'l'wo · first-year Masters students at the JulliaFd School in Manhattan · were featured. Greta Jordan, a mezzo-soprano from Freep()rt, Texas and Baylor University, had a beautiful, well-controlled voice: She is a second place winner of · the Nationa.1 Association of Teachers of ·Singers, Texoma Region and a recipient of a scholarship to Graz, Austria for Summer Opera · Program. Stacey Robinson, a bass baritQne fvom Hodges, S.C. who graduated from Moorehouse College, ·llad a wonderful rich voice, and an engaging stage presence. He is · · · a · · 'winnei\ · · • of the· · Natiomal Association of Teachers of Singing Vocal Competition, a WRUC featured soloist with the University of'S. C. Concert Choir in Sejoug Cultural Center in Seoul, Korea, and he appeared on Th?= Cosby Show in April 1987. The ·first half of the concelit was classical, wfth the singers performing vocal works of Handel~ Brahms, Debussy, Dizet and Mozart. The singers finely articUlated the works in Latin, English, German, Frenchandltalian. · The second half consisted of more modern- pieces. Mr. Robinscn sang three Songs ·of Travel which were poems by Robert Stevenson put to music of Ralph Vaughn Williams. Ms. Jordan followed with Four Songs - poems · by Langston Hughes put to music by Jean Berger. These fine musicians both delighted and moved the audience. Mr. Robinson returned to the stage with four -spirituals which ·• had the audience applauding even before \e finished the .. songs. To the audience's delight, Ms. Jordan and Mr. RobinsoQ_ closed the program with George Gershwin's duet Bess You Is MyWoman. t .These y;~mng artists -showed strong W.ent. The audienc.e, which filled two-thirds of the auditorium, gave them a standing· ovation and three curtain calls. The M.C. Lawton Club presented both of ·them With $1000 scholarships for their study at Julliard. The eight members of the Gospel En- . semble· Who ··:attended came home. with lifted· spirits and good iD,usic in their ears. THE NEW 8.97 A winclblown version iihds WRUC with a listing that has some. sweepting- changes. Rather thankfully, OMD has gone th-e way of fallen leaves. No. Artist Album . Label 1 Boom Crash Opera ·Boom Cr~h Opera Warner 2 X Whiskey A G()·Go Elektra 3· Drivin' & Cryin' Whisper- Tames the Lion Island 4 Prefab Sprout .From Langley Park to Memphis Epic 5 TalkingHeads Naked Sire 6 Mighty Lemon Drops World w/o End Sire 7 The Bears . :Rise and Shir\'8 Primitive Man a Morrissey Viva Hate Sire 8.97 Naked Raygun Jettison Caroline TOP ADDS Thomas Dolby, Zarkon!;, Stump ADVl:NTUBE PICKS Dickies, E\I-EH-0 The Other Kids Another WRUC · 89.7 FM Record: Review ByCHIAPET Thomas Dolby . Aliens Ate My B'q!ck . EMI- Manhattan l!eco~ds Thomas Dolby c;an do no wrong. ' Aliens Ate My Buick, his· third solo effort, combines. the finer elements of pop from his first album (Th~ Golden 'Age of Wireless) with the musical dexterity he exhibited on bis second effort (The Flat Earth). Funk plays a larger part on this album. than his earlier efforts as inspired 'by Dolby's work with funk master George Clinton (in a project called \Dolby's Cube.\) . Dolby leads his hand of LOst 'lroy people through seven of the most inspirational songs released in a good while. ''Key To Her Ferrari\ is a jazzy ef- fort describing his desire to obtain car keys from a near perfect woman (since his Buick was eaten by aliens} . \Hot Sauce;• is one of the funkier tunes on the album - mostly since it is a George Clinton c!'miposition. \My Brain Is Like A Sieve\ is a ska-isb tribute to a forgotton love. Although Dolby is a master of electronically-synthesized mu- sic, he tastefully combines it with standard instruments and embelishes the result with unique and unsaturated production techniques (he is also a master in the production field). He doesn't use monotonous and overbearing electric drones that many so- called \musicians\ insist on using. There is true talent on Aliens ate My Buick, not programmed product. Buick lovers everywhere, unite! Join forces with Thomas Dolby. Help the Lost Toy People in their endless effort battling the alien .monsters from outer space. Buy this record. You'll be eternally grateful to the powers thatbe. L------------------------.--.--.--.--.--.- .. -.--.--.--.~--.~ •••..... \ .•.. Romance, sex presented pastorally Unclon College Montebanks Presents PIPPIN at the Nett Memorial Theatre May5,6,7- 11,12, 13,14 Tickets: - $3 for students $4 for staff $5 for public CBII'theNott MemOriEll Box Office at 37H153,.. 1-5pftl Weekdays for reseMitlons and tickets.. •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Crossgates Mall Cinema Fri. & Sat. Qf:l.Y 1 The Fox ~The Hound 1 :55 2 Seventh Sign 4:40, 7:45, 10:25 12:25 3 Permanent Record 1:35,4:00, 7:00, 9:35 11:45 4 Stand & Deliver 1 :20 '5 The Unholy 4:25, 7:35, 10:30 12:35 6 Colors 1 :00, 4:05, 7:05, 10:00 12:30 7 Milagro War 12:55, 3:50, 6:55, 9:50 12:15 8 Sunset • 1~45, 4:35, 7:25, 10:20 12:30 9 Blood Sport 1 :15, 4:15, 7:15, 9:45 11:50 10 Above The law 1:10, 3:45, 6:40,. 9:15 11:35 11 Beetli~juice - 12:35, 3:25, 6:50 11 :40 12 Casual Sex 12:50, 3:35, 6:30, 9:00 11 :20 13 Biloxi Blues 12:40, 3:10, 6:20, 8:50 11:25 \' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • 14 SChool Daze • ••••••••••••••••••••••• • 12:30, 3:20, 6:15,9:05 11:50 ARTS & FILM,~ ALL GOD'S CHI·LLUN GOT. WINGS . .. A LOVE STORY Pa-rent's Weekend Call the Nott Memorial Theatre Ticket Office for· reservations 370-6158 By JIMMACLAUGHLJN Arts Editor PERMANENT RECORD Starring Alan Boyce and Keanu Reeves Directed by MarisaSU.ver RatedPG-13 Jim and Buddy at The Movies cllaracter comes out of the shadows, we ca11 easily see that he is bothered by the loads of l\esponsibility that his senior year carries. David tries to shelve off writing a song for his band, directing arrangements fol\ the school play, and even has to work up emotion when he is accepted to the college of his choice. David's friends, especially Chris Townsend (Reeves), are The advertisements and seen expecting David to handle previews for this movie has the major tasks perfectly, not probably drawn a couple of taking any noti(e to his sudden desei\ving reactions from reluctance. Thus, when he does potential viewers; either it has die, (they first think it's an lured them in with sen· accident), their shock puts sationalism, or it has scared them all at a tremendous loss; them away from, ''yet another\ not only of their friend, but also teens-in-trouble movie. The of what they are to do in his actual reality: of Permanent absence. Thus, as the fihn Record is an affecting, realistic continues after his death, it is drama that portrays high interesting to watch as some of school students in a manner in them seem to be careening to a few movies have been able to · similar fate, while. at the same achieve. time other:s seem to emerge Be warned, these are not the from the shadows that David nicely dressed, perfectly cast . coiffed, nice-car ieens Permanent Record is, above speaking in \yearbook quotes\ all, a ~erious diversion from that seem to populate most rnost·moVies tbat deal with high films. Instead, director Marisa school student. .problems. The Silver has -filled her fihn with a film deals with the issue of dozen or so easily belie.vable .. adolescent .suicide in. a marmer characters, and unpretentious that is both frank, and· dialogue. frightening. It offers the Permanent Record concerns audience no sol11tion or pat an- the suprising suicide of David sw-ers, allowing the characters Sinclair (Boyce), a student wilo are basket cases at the end regarded as one of the more to remain as such. In no way promising in his class. At the does the movie allow the beginning of the film the tension audience to accept the situation is obvious, but understated, at hand lightly, mUing the simply letting the audie~ce unpredictability of it all seem become acquainted with the all the more critical. FILM cast of students. As David's GRADE: A Write for .9Lrts ,. V .

\\ > • Page 16 , .. Confirtnation--saturday, A- pril 30 Bishop Howard J. Hubbard will confer the Sacrament of Confirmation during the 5:30 liturgy ·at St. John the Evangelist· Church. Congratulations to Ethuella Flood, David Gulliver, Stephanie Jaryna, Michelle Maratto and Ellen Nichols who will be among the Con- firmandi. ':fhe Folk Group will provide the music and all are invited to attend this special liturgy. Prison Ministry~Monday, May 2 at 7 p.m. in CC41() Father Rick Shaw, Chaplain at Albany, Rensselaer, and Schenectady County jails will speak to the Newman Club about his ministry and entertain questions. All are welcome. Visit Shut-Ins-Any Union student who wishes t& visit a homebound parishoner of St. John's on aregular basis during these spring months please contact Gerri Borne 34'2-3381. - Tutoring Program-Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten, Computer Math· & Library Aides· as well as tutoring Math & Reading on a one to one. Please contact Usa Mercugliano, 370-6986. interested in an opportunity in the investment industry to attend an informational seminar to become;acquainted with our organization. and the pasitions we have available · here in Albany. Contact Mutray • Leonardsonat45~11>. . Paid Summer Internship. · . Short-term residential treat- • ~ent center for emotionally disturbed youth seeks live-in counselors for boys, ages 6 ... Ul. · Training and clinical super- vision included, no previous experience required. Ern- '(>loyment: June 2'7- Aug. 26. For info contact: Wediko Children\s Services (617) 536-2747 BostoD, MA Ride needed to Penn State any time! . (weekend~ or weekdays) Will share .ex- penses. Call Joanne 382-7860. Dutch Colonial - for sale by owner. 4 bedroom, llfz baths. Walking distance to Union. $130;000. Please call377-0006. House sitting situation wanted. Older returning student; single. Please contact John McGuire c/o Civil Engineering Dept. Call · Ext. 6262 A.S.A.P. Goggles, I can't wait until this summer and the cape. D- 1'11 trade you my uncle's numberfor dinner. Yes Qrno? Me Fer Do what you think is best, but be careful. I know you will make the right decision, if not, have a lot offun being wrong. Burger Alli, Happy 20th b-day!! Love, Tina & Kate Lori, Yes-,someone did write you a personal! Thanks for the advice on traveling alone in foreign countries!-K - K.K. Hope to see you at the Psy~hology Career Day, Festlval-Extravag~Inza. This Saturday 12 .. 5:00 a tOld Chapel. Rich · Get a clue ~ find out what you can do -. Psychology Career Day this Saturday - 12 - 5:00 Old Chapel - it's not just for psych·majors. I see a red door and I want it painted black. · . Get psyched ~ this Saturday - Old Chapel12-5:00. Be there.· Kling Shut up and talk! Just don't · hang ~p - I'll change the message- I promise~ A Berkowitz and Cohen I know this is a little late ... but it's never too late to .. . . · Folk Group-Meets Sunday evenings with Friar Phil at 7:30 p.m. in St. John the Evangelist Church to .prepare for 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members are always welcome. Curt, Youaresuchatoughguy! . GETPSYCHED ... Mountebanks meetings at 4:30 p.m. on Tuesdays. Everyone is welcome. Interested in politics? Make it pay with citizen action. We are now hiring canvassers, to work on environment and consumer campaigns. 2 - 10 p.m. $190 to $250 per week pay training. PTIFT Call John at 465-4600. First Investors Corporation, established since 11!30, invites all Capital District residents CASH? We are looking for students who want to earn some fun, easy money! Students who would like to work on ReUnion Weekend (June 12 & 13), please stop by the Alumni Office or call Sharon or Kerry at 6168. · Pen Pal {for spring term) ~------------~-- Suzanne (jetYI.C{ue read Concordiensis 9\[gws :Jlna[ysis page 2 MAM Life is f- amazing and no matter where 1 am I will be close. Brad, Although I don't remember one hand on the ---, g,uess yoa got pretty lucky! · l!nion new answer to the party hne, diall-8()()..386 .. KARP. Luvya, Tree and Tilt --------------~--} Paula, You sexy wild beast you! Look outfor jungleiov:eandWB's (?) Tilt and Tree- ILLUSION , , , FANTASY TO STUDY- PIPPIN May 5,6,7---. 11 '12,.13,14 at the Nott Memorial Theatre :llllake resetvatlons right this minute! ,• ·~ :i ·'· t i. 1· I \

Page 16 Conf.irmation-8aturday, A· pril 30 Bishop Howard J. Hubbard wiH confer the Sacrament of Confirmation during the 5:30 liturgy at St. John the Evangelist Church. Congratulations te Emuella Flood, David Gulliver, Stephanie Jaryna, Michelle Maratto and Ellen Nichols who will be among the Con- fi.rmandi. The Folk Group will provide the music and all are invited to attend this special liturgy. Prison Ministry-Monday, May 2 at 7 p.m. in CC410 Father Rick Shaw, Chaplain at Albany, Rensselaer, and Schenectady County jails will speak to the N ewrnan Club about his Ininistry and entertain questions. All are welcome. Visit Shut-Ins-Any Union student who wishes to visit a homebound parishoner of St. John's on a regular basis daring these spring months please contact Gerri Borne 372-3381. Tutoring Program-Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten, Computer Math· & Library Aides· as well as tutoring Math & Reading on a one to one. Please contact Usa Mercugliano, 370-6986. Folk Group-Meets Sllllday evenings with -Friar Phil at 7:30 p.m. in St. Jolm the Evangelist Church to prepare for 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members are always welcome. Mountebanks meetings at 4:30 p.m. on Tuesdays. Everyone is welcome. Interested in politics'? Make it pay with citizen action. We are now hiring canvassers to work on environment and consumer campaigns. 2 - 10 p.m. $190 to $250 per week pay training. PT/FT Call John at 465-4600. First Investors Corporation, established since 1930, invites all Capital District residents CASH? We are 1 ooking for students who want to earn some fun, easy money! Students who would like to work on ReUnion Weekend (June 12 & 13), please stop by the AI umni Office or call Sharon or Kerry at 6168. CONCORDJENSJS, April 28, 1988 interestea in an opportunity in the investment indru;try to attend an informational seminar to become acquainted with our organization and the positions we have available here in Albany. Contact Murray Leonardson at 459-5415. Paid Summer Internship. Short-term residential treat- ment center for emotionally disturbed youth seeks live-in counselors for boys, ages 6 - 18. Training and clinical super- vision included, no previous experience required. Em- ployment: June 27- Aug. 26. For 1nfo contact: Wediko Children's Services (617) 536-274:7 Boston, MA Ride needed to Penn State any time! (weekends or weekdays) Will share ex- penses. Call Joanne 382-7860. Dutch Colonial - for sale by owner. 4 bedroom, ll/2 baths. Walking distance to Union. $130,000. Please call377-0006. House sitting situation wanted. Older returning student, single. Please contact John McGuire c/o Civil Engineering Dept. Call · Ext. 6262 A.S.A.P. Goggles, I can't wait tllltil this summer and the cape. Curt, You are such a tough guy! Pen Pal D- 1'11 trade you my uncle's number for dinner. Yes or no? Me Fer Do what you think is best, but be careful. I know you will make the right decision, if not, have a lot of fun being wrong. Burger Alli, Happy 20th b-day! ! Love, Tina & Kate Lori, Yes-someone did write you a personal! Thanks for the advice on traveling alone in foreign countries!-K K.K. Hope to see you at the Psyc.hology Career Day, Festival-Extravaganza. This Saturday 12- 5:00 at Old Chapel. Rich Get a clue - find out what yoa can do - Psychology Career Day this Saturday - 12 - 5:0() Old Chapel - it's not just for psyrh majors. I see a red door and I want it painted black. Get psyched - this Saturday - Old Chapel12- 5:00. Be there. Kling Shut up and talk! Just don't hang up - I'll change the message -I promise. A Berkowitz and Cohen I know this is a little late ... out it's never too late to .... GET PSYCHED ... (for spring term) Suzanne (jet5l C{ue read Concordiensis ~ws .9Lnafysis page 2 MAM Life is f- amazing and no matter where I am I will be close. Brad, Although I don't remember one hand on the -, guess you got pretty lucky! Union new answer to the party line, diall-800.386-KARP. Paula, Luvya, Tree and Tilt You sexy wild beast you! Look out for jungle love and WB 's ( '?) Tilt and Tree ILLUSION, FANTASY TO STUDY PIPPIN May 5,6,7- 11,12,13,14 at the Nott Memorial Theatre JI/Jake reseNations right this minute! to lr1!M!l @rtd' idK 1 0. Too manY' tyf)oS~ · · · ·· · 9~ Not en()dg:h, mlt~;ri:al aJ;l~tJ~' $1Yd~Ji~'e~rom, ,· / . .·:-. ·, .. _.- - -':· : -~\ . ; ___ : '·''· .' : \: .-:::· '- ·-: - '·:''\•:' ~::{ -: . 1h .. I· !

\~ :i ,. 1 .. t ·SDT- \Seilior Baquet! \ Those two •. wordssayitall! Larry, Worcnester: Round 2! Girls. Yeah, but you've got a great let's make Pap~ Wikki proud. ·: a-! LW8 Remember the fat lady · KeepSmilin' M. hasn't sung! The short billed loon is a very rare, special, and exotic bird. Lina, Whatever you do, just remember whose doors you're singing in front of during RUSH next year. DearLesh: Your eyes are as deep as my affection for you. ' Sincerely, Me JUilgle love ... Could that mean the 2nd coming of KIMBA? Betty Congrats!! It's the time of your life; spring term. Lo:ve you lots, s .. poops Toto-. Nice grass stains! L'ilSiS, Kitty ...... Congratulations ~n , · making itpast the ·salad. Inspector 15---Hope you had a great time. Too bad you didn't take the dress off sooner than •• youdid. r don't mean to accuse you or . anything - BUT. DID YOU . SPIT ORANGE POLAR DRY :SODA.... .. . , To my Chi Psi Vice President .. Rootntnate, Only 2 days to, go! 'Please, bear with me -you are . the best I Love, ---.K (P .S. I know it's really Psi Chi!!) WID. Mary 0. throw her support · behind the Duke now that:Sarah Shaw and Jackson.appear out of , the race? The world awaits her decision! Three little devils all dressed in black .. * Leslie-:May I suggest Emily Post for advice on living room etiquette! Boots: Congr:ats on Psi Chi. When you read tllis remind me about the lottery. · Your Boxing Brother Michele Tobin for the Greek of the Week - You're. probably ~overqualilfied for that too, hull?! O.K. I miss you too: We'll talk one of tllese days- I promise! B.J. T .P. Hi! Just a short note to say Thank Y oufor .being my friend. BJ , 251 Davidson South, Excuse me sir, is this the DELTA House? ... Sure, come .on in. J. Benushi? WA! WAJ WA! How about that set of tools? I bet it works great. I'll take a rain check. Ha! Ha! Ha! T.F.T. EAT SPAM, IT PA, YS. Look for Back tc the Wombnnertia .of Mud's new album ~ \Lemon! Lemon! Lemon! Lemon! Lemon!\ Back to the Womb/Inertia of Mud - the year's best phone band. About tbe other-night, rm glad we ... hey, we didn't do anything! What? The movie started 15 minutes ago! Hey, the key doesn't work. Is this tile right car? $330 a week, $1,000 a. term. Got a job, yet1 Ruth Allen for Campus Felon! You can run and you can :hide, but officer Van H()rn will eventually track you down! Fact: I have the best times when I'm With you! The -deadline for team registration for the DG Olympics isMay 4. It's better to have a good time and not a fast time. E;vil One-- Tony the tiger says they're great. . SP AM ISGOOD FOOD. \Baby we were born to nm!\ CN accompanying BS, Wor- . cester, 2125/88. BLOOM COUNTY PVT 1111/'T PIJWN/ 111A1'4 NOT YDVI{ /fi(JFfiN / . I M/t.{)/ WfiAT f#11ie . VIJRtP /If((£ W() /lOIN& r \ 5fflTNG ()(/[ 50Me fl(J/lllfflt; fOr< MI{,.Of)t10/15T, txiK H()(/5~ , toCI<RfJIJCH. .. ___ ___ A~fl WHAT fJIJIJUJ'Ve IW5PIKW YOfJ TO flO 11/RT?I / ,, ·~- by Berke .Breathed HI£ &1/IJKY 1/~/MIU. 5PAT flf15 lift/ B!)(IAt. fN MY f<f6Hr 1IJ /.tVe , .. : OVAJ:Tfj\ W~. rk'fftlf~J'/,f c.er Ht~ ee. / WilY PON'T YOV &0 trJ W(Jf(f< ? PO &Okll-nf/N6 MOR~ M£3fldfNGff/t. THfiN . . Jwr J?f3Pfl.Of1fJCfN& ,. / 50MemtN&'5 fiM/56. • I YIJ55!Kl \!JIIftt!r/Qt: ~cucarocfla:. YO(Jf{ t!Jit.IJ r11Jf1fl}l fl(/6M/J I .. COCKROIICH66 . ARG Ol/R FKIEII/?6. ~-'/fiN/? we- t1K6 5HIIRIN& \PfJPPB<!Pf£ fll/(ff( cooxr&& Mm (){If< fKialtJo / Page 17 Becky- We're still waiting for the fourth, but if I were you I'd plead the fifth! By the way, Congrats! DGSisters, . Get p~yched for the Olympics·! ! Only 22 more days until the DG Olyinpics! ! DU Brotqers, . . When the \Hell\ is in~iration week? · Insipient Scum Co.urtB Let's dot each other with pudding and you can guess what would cQme next. Picasso \Can you say Love Puppy\ \LuhPuh\ -941.944 FSB, This year is almost over. Let's -make the best of what is left. To \B\ best friends is good enough for ·me, how about you? The Prince C.D. Hi Gorgeous - What's up? Don't say the ceiling. There I love you. -BJ \I could have been diving up in Maine; instsead I made a little splash.\ Jack A.J./B.J./A.S.A.P./O.K/S.A.G. Rudolph-It's not as bad as y()U think. Plus, plastic surgery could fix it, perhaps a tat .. too-about the weekend, congrats! No fights this time around. I know this great little place in North. Carolina ... The Swamp Fox Inn. Meet me at the Schenectady bus station. Kitty-About Friday nig~t behind the bar ... pick on someone your own size. H;omegirl, Want to go to churchSunday? Homeboy '\I bought a calendar.\ V.P. A puppy in one hand and a 6 meat, 3 cheese pizza in the other. I'm content. Best friends goin<5 out with brothers. How cute Excuse me, Mi~s, may I take your jacket? \Grass d()n't grow on a playgrotmd, Jack\ - 93'7. ''Well grass also don't grow on an infertile field, g'red.\ 938 and 941 Catholics are still on top and the loft is still shaking. Hey. Joe was this worth :$mOO? Sure as hell was, :Eel JUST KIDDING SCOTT Hey Joe, can I borrow your car andabout$20? S.G. P .S. How do you get to Crossgates. Rapunzel, let down your hair. Ride 'em cowboy. Puppylove- Barkforme. Homeless Satclunoe \I got my hard hat and goggles. I'm ready for diving.\ -Scoche The big question: Will there be a new shrine? ··- \'

j, f CONCORDIENSIS, April. 28, 1988 Worchester: Round 2! Girls let's make Papa Wikki proud. LW8 Remember the fat lady hasn'tsung! The short billed looa is a very ra·re, special, and exotic bird. Lina, Whatever you do, just remember whose doors you're singing in front of during RUSH next year. DearLesh: Your eyes are as deep as my affection for you. Sincerely, Me Jungle love ... Could that mean the 2nd coming of KIMBA? Betty Congrats!! It's the time of your life; spring tenn. Love you lots, S-poops Toto- Nice grass stains! L'ilSis, It's better to have a good time andnota fasttime. SDT- \Senior Baquet!,. Those two words say itall! Larry, Yeah, but you've got a great a-! Keep Smilin' M. Kitty-Congratulations on making it past the salad. Inspector 15-H@pe you had a great time. Too bad you didn't take the dress off sooner than you did. I don't mean to accuse you or anything - BUT DID YOU SPIT ORANGE POLAR DRY SODA ... To my Chi Psi Vice President Roommate, Only 2 days to go! Please, bear with me -you are the best! Love, -K (P.S. I know it's really Psi Chi!!) Will Mary 0. throw her support behind the Duke now that Sarah Shaw and Jackson appear out of . the race? The world awaits her decision! Evil One- Tony the tiger says they're great. BLOOM COUNTY OPt/5// MI!IT'R& YOU f?()(N(7 ?/ 5!1100611/N& fl COC/(/{0/ICH. \ PVT 1HIIT !?tJWN/ iHAr'O NOT YOV~ /t1(/Ff!N / I t-OOK AT 'f(}(l/?5a-f. }1J{)~G\ UNC(Jf.1f/lff!P fiNP !300N6. 1/NP YO(} i/Ve Off Of O!HeK5 ... / ANrJ WHAT WOtJUl'V£ INSPIRW YO(J TO {}0 11/IIT .7! / )\ ._. Three little devils all dressed in black ... Leslie-May I suggest Emily Post for advice on living room etiquette! Boots: Congrats on Psi Chi. When you read this remind me about the lottery. Your Boxing Bratller Michele Tobin for the Greek of the Week - You're probably overqualilfied for that too, huh?! D.K. I miss you too. We'll talk one of these days - I promise! B.J. T.P. Hi! Just a short note to say Thank Yo a for being my friend. BJ 251 Davidson South, Excuse me sir, is this the DELTA House? ... Sure, come on in. J. Bellushi? WA!WA!WA! How about that set of tools? I bet it works great. I'll take a rain check. Ha! Ha! Hal T.F.T. SPAM IS GOOD FOOD. EAT SP AM, IT PAYS. Look for Back to the Womb/Inertia of Mud's new album - \Lemon! Lemon! Lemon r Lemon! Lemon!'' Back to the Womb/Inertia of Mud - the year's best phone band. About the other night, I'm glad we ... hey, we didn't do anythlng! What? The movie started 15 minutes ago! Hey, the key doesn't work. Is this the right car? $330 a week, $1,000 a term. Got a job, yet\? Ruth Allen for Campus Felon! You can r-un and you can hide, but off.icer Van Horn will eventually track you down! Fact: I have the best times when I'm with you! The deadline for team registration for the DG Olympics is May 4 . \Baby we were born to run! \ CN accompanying BS, Wor- cester, 2/25/88. by Berke .Breathed H€ 5PAT IN MY OVAI-1/N6. &V6K'I llN/MfJt.. HAfi 11ft/ €7)(/f/L. 1?16Hr 10 C.IV~ , .. NO Mf117'€1? me 5?6C!I1'5. N&W t.&TH!Me£. \ ) WHY fJON'T YOU &0 W WOI?K? PO 50tW51H/Nf7 MOR€ MF3fW!NGffJt.. 1HIIN . JrnT R£f'ROflUCff.l(; ... / Y€55/K/ ''tMrttidCle IN Flft1; Jf/Sr r;er rJvr ~r tftY HOI/56.(!' I SOUN/?5 C.!K& CH!IR£6o AN!J Of. \ )I Page 17 Becky- We're still waiting for the fourth, but if I were you I'd plead the fifth! By the way, Congrats! DGSisters, Get p~yched for tile Olympics! ! Only 22 more days until the 00 Olympics!! DU Brothers, When the \Hell\ is in~iration week? Insipient Scum CourtB Let's dot each other with pudding and you can guess what would come next. Picasso \Can you say Love Puppy\ \LuhPuh\ -941.944 FSB, This year is almost over. Let's- make the best of what is left. To \B\ best friends is good enough for me, how about you? The Prince C.D. Hi Gorgeous - What's up? Don't say the ceiling. There I love you. -BJ \I could have been diving up in Maine; instsead I made a little splash.\ Jack A.J./B.J./ A.S.A.P./O.K/S.A.G. Rudolph-It's not as bad as you think. Plus, plastic surgery could fix it, perhaps a tat- too-about the weekend, congrats! No fights this time around. I know this great little place in North Carolina ... The Swamp Fox Inn. Meet me at the Schenectady bus station. Kitty-About Friday night behind the bar ... pick on someone your own size. Homegirl, Want to go to church Sunday? Homeboy \I bought a calendar.\ V.P. A puppy in one hand and a 6 meat, 3 cheese pina in the other. I'm content. Best friends goin~ out with brothers. How cute Excuse me, Mi~ s, may I take your jacket? \Grass don't grow on a playground, Jack\ - 937. \Well grass also don't grow on an infertile field, <'red.'' 938 and 941 Catholics are stil on top and the loft is still shaking. Hey, Joe was this worth ·$10.00? Sure as hell was, .Eel JUST KIDDING SCOTI' Hey Joe, can I borrow your car andabout$20? S.G. P .S. How do you get to Crossgates. Rapunzel, let down your hair. Ride 'em cowboy. Puppy love- Bark forme. Homeless Satclunoe \I got my hard hat and goggles. l'mreadyfordiving.\ -Scoche The big questio11: Will there be a new shrine? ..

Page 18 CONCORDIENSJS, April 28, 1988 *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men ; . I ' II I I Tanning i . ; i . . 1 / Special ; 1 TaruH.ng ~-~· Tannmg 1 , S~ulptur~d 1 · 1st Visit· Free 1 Spec1al . Spec1al I' Na1ls & T1ps 1 1 We~~ly 50 Visits 11 O_ 0 Visits $24· 95 6 VISitS . • I I $6.95 _ $49.95 I ,$75:00 I reg. 3s.oo I I . • ,With U~tOQ_I.£?. Walk-Ins Welcome *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. 1307 Nott St 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital 370 _ 4630 Schenectady THE BOOK STORE UNION COLLEGE OPEN Monday- Friday 8:45- 4:30 Saturday 11:00- 3:00 370-6188 ORDERS FOR CAP,S AND GOWNS WILL BE TAKEN AT THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE THURSDAY, APRIL 28--- FRIDAY MAY 13 BE SURE TO ORDER EARLY! D'ue to the wondedul· response t~ Parents W~kend, both seatings far Mothers day Brunch are filled. However, West College will be open. There are still apace• available for Dutchmens Dinner on Saturday at .. 8:0() p.m. Call 370-6379 for. : reservatl~na. Thank \'ou. · ·Oift\\ of S~ont Ac-llt'M Applications for oositlon of. WRITING CENTER TUTOfl . are due no later than · MOimAY MAY 2. # # # . APPLICATIONS MAY BE OB· · TAINED FROM . The Writing Center, ln Wh ltaker House · Or from :Professor Nel,. : son ·In Humanities 210. · Need Extra Cash SP.BING TERM? Student Security .Now · . Hiring Call . • Josh · or ·Michele 4122 - 377'--7058· IIAVt Yt>U TIIOUGIIT AB;OUT A CAREER IN PSYCHOLOGY? · Uyou\~c .unc~ain abou~·what to do · ~ grad\l~tion;)1~d·~ou;ha~11 ~n interest · m psycJti,Jlogr,, he¢~s yo11r. chance to explore lhc • opportunitle{l &V;I~labie tO you. The Psychology Club, in · COlnjuncti~>n with Psi Chi, is ~ponsoring a Car.eer Day in P~ychology on April · 30, 198~ from l~S p.m. in Hale House/Old Chapel. There wi:ll be representatives from a variety of C;Jreer fields and ,graduate .schopi programs present t() _sp~k with you about their professions. Dr. Mark E. Ware froJ;II Creighton· University will speak about career opportunities in psychology. FROM FORD TO MINlMAL' ASSIST WITH YOUR DOW·N PAYMENT. GIVE YOURSELF A NEW FORD FOR GRADUATION. YOU WORKED HARD, YOU DESERV·E IT! * Wifh Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DETAILS: 799 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, NY 12206 489~5414 · graduation The. Proudest Moment Of All! Bachelor (Complete Ou~fit) $14.95 Master (Complete Outfit) Doctor (Complete Outfit) $16.fJ5 . $18.9.5 ' .

CONCORDIENSIS, April. 28, 198·8 Page 19 C!tnncnr'-itnsis SPORTS .Athlete of the Week Ruggers ~ontinue Their Quest By DAVE MORRISON Si»rtsEdltor · . Although the Union 'College Softball team is .not having .. by any means a remarkable season, there are a few players who contin11e to play very wen. This week's \Athlete Of The Week'' is possibly the. brightest star of this hard .. working . and determined team. Kris Tierney out of Ganton High School, Cantari, MA,.has proved to be a standout player both on. the ~ound and at the plate.. Thus far Kris has posted an incredible 0·.972 ERA only. allowir,lg 10 runs · in 72 inning~ pitched. Even though her season recDrd of 5 Wins and 3 losses may not indicate out- standing play, her statistics Will have to speak for themselves. Kris has thrown 38 strikeouts (3K's per game} six of which Kris Tierney were against RPI on Tuesday where she pitched a one-hitter in a 7-0 win. At the plate she is do~g an exception11l jQb. Kris' batting average is P'tesently at .419, helped out by a 2 for 3 shoWing ~the RPI .game. Her on-base percentage is also excellent, as Kris has averaged six bases a game and leads the team in total bases covered. Kris has also demonstrated speed and ,intelligence running the bases, by having 7 stolen ba$es in ·R attempts. Krls' coach, Charlene Roberts, says that Kris is one of her top players and she could be By TOMMUZZOI\TIGRO April 16: 'I'he visiting Vassar ruggers learned a valuable yet p.ainfullesson in proto(lol on this uy. First, never expect a pleasant spring rugby game on Union turf .. Rather, prepare for war in the sub-zero trenches that pass for library field. On this day the 15 Union Rugby warriors yearned not only for the victory that improved their record to 3-1, but :tC:J extract bl()od from their ()pponents. Vassar C8Jile out stro11g,. as did Uaion, but their will was quickly s)lattered a3 they ~aliZed that the ruggers truly a potential MVP this season. \Kris is a solid .player, she found her niche as a baserun- ner 1 batter and pitcher- KriS iS there,\ says coach Roberts. • · wished to terminate their in- significant maggot-life esistences. At this critical point, Union turned it on to sbDW that Congratulations go out to Kris Tierney for outstancllilg efforts. We Wish her, the coaches and players Df the Softeball Team · continue!l success. · they could and W()ul.d score plethorically at will. Eoth the A and B sides scored at will Muzzy who ran a 3 draw 4 and lobbed a Fiji Island pass to Goby for the try, Unfortunately thekickfailedandUnon led, 7-0. Final: Union 7, R.I. T. 3. In game two, Union faced Cortland in Highlands. The game was one of kicking. Union's defense again was tight and big tackles from the two sets of twins, Te~ators 1 & 2 Up and Down Week for Men's Lax r-ecording two shut-ollts. In the traditional post-g:ame en- counter the already reduced Vassar Ruggers: verging on tears, were unable to lift their mugs of plenty in th.e boat race, · (AU$tin and Taylor) with Andy Sobol and Ed Vassalo put the fear of God into many a rugger's eye. T1 laid out a rugger on a .glorious wing forward play and the Aryan twins (Sheridan and Muzzy) possibly shattered the ribs of a jumping ftCrummer. Steve Neiditz had a try which was unfairly called back while a Union player was called for an unlikely penalty. Dan Gilbert with a tear in his knee sold out for the team, while Steve Silberman played like the Uberty Bell, with his head constantly ringing. Cortland dove in for the loose ball and the victory late in the game, 4-0. By GREG. GOETZ Last week, the Union COllege men's lacrosse teaxn faced two intense rivals. First, they traveled to Williams College to meet tl)e Epbmen. It took .a while for the Dutchmen to · loosen up after the bus ride, and · they fell behind, 4.;1, before the end- of the first quarter. In the second quarter, the Union at- tack struck immediately with three goals inside. of. two minutes. Williams may have enjoyed an unusual home field advantage as the Dutc.hmen faced possibly questionable officiating which cog.tributed to early Ephmen goals as the Dutchmen were forced t() play down a man. With the halftime score .5-4, both teams tightened up defensivelyand'traded scores in BRING YOUR PARENTS to THE ,,SLAUGHTER\ .. Union Men's Rugby Shall Decimate Hamilton .Ruglty On ~aJ 6~1~ 1:00 pm Library Field Parent's We~ekend the third period. In .the fourth period, the Dutchmen could not catch the Ephmen though they . beat them physically and outshot them. The final score was ·8.6 and brought the team's record to 4-6. Scoring was led by Pete Cotier (2-0), ·NickBaratoff (2·9), .Phil _Horn 0-(1), Dave · De~ardinis (1-0), Blake Hen- derson (0-1), and Sean Morton (0-1). _ . 0D Saturday, they continUed theJradition qf a close Jj.valry with the -Continentals of Hamilt~m College. Hamilton assumed an early lead which they never relinquised. The Dutchmen were behind, 4-3, at halftime and. maY have been confused by the large hailStones which f¢lllike lacrosse balls in the first quarter. Union seems to become more aggressive :when . they f:all behind and p~ts~ a great deal of UNION BASEBALL SCHEDULE Thursday, home, vs. Hamilton, 3:00 Fri~ay, horne, vs. Alpany, 3:00 Tuesday, May 3, home, vs. . Hartwick, .3: oo Wednesday, May 4, away, vs. RPI,. 3:00 . pressure on their opponents, but ptltting their very manhood in the clock will run out on their . gtlestion. The Vassar Ruggers comeback attempts. This game oemanded with quivering proved this to be true and the · V()ices that Union halt its final tally showed the Dut- traditional rendition of that ode ehmen on the downside, losing to women, Rugby Qaeen. s .. ;;-, At the Upstates, Union's high The Dutchmen were paced by aspirations were partially Hom (2.:0), Keller (2-0), Hen- · · fulfilled in the first round. de.rson (1.0), and captain Len Against a dirty R.r:r. team, Union came out on fire and LaMonica (0-3). Fine games Chris Sheridan quickly put a 3- were also played by captain point. penalty kick. through the Greg Leahey and Pat Lawson uprights~ Union's defense was on defense. impenetrable as the wall for-. There are two home games med by the backs was sup- left this season as Colgate visits ported and reinforced by the this Saturday evening and t.ough, quick scrummers. Late :Hartwick ~ext Wednesday iJ1 the half, on a quick o11t from a afternoon. set serum, Derechin passed to The Union killer massacre B's went 1-1 as they marched over Syracuse. The first score came on a gorgeous wishbone pass to Matt Futts. Then Tim Matthews lowered his head breaking the aose of ·his potential tackler and dished off to Futts for. another try. They ·converted the kick from 90 meters out. A Nis Fitz try put the icing on the cake as Mat- thews put the kick through. In the second game, Union came out strong against a big Buffalo State team. Again, congrats to many players for their bone-crushing hits. Unfortunately, UnionB'slost, 0- 15. Union Track Survives Colgate Open • ~ By THE TRACK TEAM ~ The Union College track teams have got to be wondering when spring will arrive. For the third time in as many weeks, the Dutc:hmen were forced to compete in wretched con· ditions, this time at Hamilton, New York. Running in the Colgate'Open, the athletes were forced to deal with 35 degree weather, wind, and sleet with freezing rain. Nevertheless, Union had a pretty impressive day, placing in nearly every event. No team scores were kept. Terri Thomas had Union's only individual victo:ry, as she raced to a 27.6 se~ond time in the 200 meter dash. That quick time was made even more iropres~ive by the faet that rnQre than half the raf:!e was run directly into the wind. Thomas also finished third in the 100 meter dash, running it in 13.3 seconds, again into the head- wind. Union had several second place finishes in the meet, which attracted some .of New York States top s~hoDls, in~ eluding St. Lawrence and Division I Niagara a11d Colgate. Terry Rathwell tbrew the javelin 166 feet incpes to gain a second in that event. In another field event, Andy McMahon took second in tile · discus, throwing it 122 feet 11 inches, -while Mike Sirowich added · a fourth in that event (113 fe~t 9 inches). Liz Dobbs C;CJvered the 100 meter hurdles 'in 17.7 seconds, while Lynette Nielsen ,;an the 400 intermediate bur· dles in 75.7 seconds. Both finished second in their respective events. Chipping· in thirds for Union were freshmen Meg Parsons and Bob Lin- dyberg in the 400 .Dieter dash, Parsons running a 62.6 and Lindyberg a 54.2. Another freslunan, Guy Burman, took a third in the pole vault as he cleared 12 feet 6 inches. Also picking up a third was Clare Ginsberg-Lytle in the 800 meter run, finishing in 2:37.8 in her first try at that event. Jeff Simkins placed in two hurdle events for the Dutchmen, taking sixth in the 110 high hurdles, and fourth in the 400 \intermediate hurdles. Art · Broga finished fifth in the long jwnp, clearing 21 feet 2 inches against tough competition. The Union track teams will continue their 1988 Northeast Tour this weekend. On Satur- day, they travel to Worchester to- compete in a quadrangular meet with WPI, Norwich, and Southeastern Massachusetts . . . · The Dutchmen Sports ·Network Presents: : gni.on Dutchmen Baseball. · Thurs. April 28th at 2:30pm vs .. Hamilton FridaY. April 29th at 2:30pm vs. Albany Tuesday May ~rd at 2:3b· pm vs. Hartwick . . ~ : •. I . ' ~· • •. Tune in for all t-he exciting Dutchmen Baseball action live from Central Park ONLY ON 19.7 WRUC ..

;· 5 ·~ ...I LIJ· ~­ t;· c: ~ ~· 0 b· .. · .. \\ ...... ··~ ....... .- .... , .. ''·· -~~ it . '\'. ·~-~ . Chad Levin· typifies the Netmen's twisted season. Union has ridden the roller coaster to a 2-·s mark. Ruggers lose their way on road to U.pstates. April28, 1988 Rich Romer: A Storybook Ending By ANDREW MILLER Sports Editor It was no ordinary breakfast. On. a sleepy Sunday morning the dreams of a hometown. boy became a reality. Ricb Romer, the most honored foot ball player in schDol history, was chosen in the 7th roWld, 168th pick overall, by the Cincinnati Bengals of the National Foot- ball League in its annual spring draft. ''I was just sitting around starting to cook breafast when they called,\ Romer said. The voice on the other end of the phone was that of a secretary from the Bengals organization. \I thought it was sDmebody fooling around at first, somebody from school,'~ Romer joked. The voice on the other end of the phone got to the .point, and got to it quick. \This is so- and-so from the Cinei11nati Bengals, do you kno:w we just o drafted you?\ Rich's reply, b \No·!\ Thus the it professional career of Union's ~ Future Bengal: Rich Romer beSt football player ever was born. Romer breaks all the mDlds of the stereotypical .co:llege draftee •. First and foremost, it is a tremendous acccomplisllment lot Romer, and the 1Jnion football program in ge11eral, to be drafted for tile prCif s ollt of a small Division ID conege. The DiviSion Ill athlete is automatically handicapped. 'lbe scouts are relllct8Jlt to \buy'' the numbers of a Division ID ~layer. Lack of \pro·caUber' competition dealpatea a standolltl!i acM comDlllbmeatl in tile .:'little ma 1 ' d!vlalon to the 1111tested u. category. The Division III athlete does not get the national media attention that is \required\ for pro scout recognition. Romer broke through the division barrier and let his achievements stand for themselves. Fresh out of East Greenbush, New York, Rich. captain of his high school team, was named All-Area by all four of the Capital District's major newspapers. Romer made a big splash as a freshman for the Dutchmen gathering, a t.eam- Romer in action. The 6'3\ 220 pound linebacker is, by NFL linebacking standards, small. Bengal's linebacker coach Dick Selcer was very excited to pick up Romer in the seventh round, \Rich has a great attitude, and if he competes on this level as intensely as he competed on that level, he'll be just as successful.\ Selcer's one reservation about Romer, ~'Be's too light.\ Selcer im· mediately put Romer on a weight training program with the intention of beefing up the game-smart Dutchman. The Bengals hope to push Romer up to 228 lbs. by the start of tr~ing camp. Maybe the most unusual thing about Union's first pro football draftee is his intellect. Romer is not your typical college-pro football player. Romer did not go to the big school and take the easy ride. His education was not handed to him. Romer is a Mechanical Engineer with a 3.56 grade point average. He was a two-time Academic All· American inclucUng - being named to the GTEwCoSlDA National Academic All· American Team, the first Union football recipient ever, of the award. Romer was named one of the six NCAA Postgraduate Scholarship awards presented to DivJston U and m athletes. Romer has the tools, including the ;dl-;valoable mental ones, to be an all-around player. leading 7 quarterback sacks, an~ earning recognition as ~mon. and Capital District Rookie of the Year.\ As the . season piled up so did the honors. By the end of his senior season, Romer had amassed 176 tackles, 3 blocked plUlts, and a college record of 42% sacks for a. net negative yardage gain of 314 yards. These numbers, along with his aggressive play, natural instincts and leadership qualities, earned Romer ovel' 22 national awards including Kodak All-American, Pizza Hut All-American (first team) and the Football News first team All-American. The Rich Romer story is a fairytale come true. It sounds corny but it makes you feel good , inside. Romer is the small town boy who had a dream to play football. He never put his athletics ahead of academics. He got to where he is now through hard work and determination. If you had a son or daughter who was an aspiring athlete, Rich Romer would be the role-model you would want your kid to look up to. The Unicm community ex- tends their best wishes to Rich. It will be a pleasure to look up on television screens - across America and seethe name Rich Romer/Union College in big black and orange letters. '1'hiQ just may be the start of something bJg. The Waiting's the· .Ha.rdest Part ByCARATABACK The waiting ended this week for Rich Romer and for ·AWl· . dray Bruce as both were picked up in the NFL draft. Meanwhile Dave Winfield continues to await trade rumors. {The latest has Winfield among th.e American League's top tbree in home runs, RBis and batting averages, exchanged for Toronto's Jesse Barfield?!?) . The . Orioles also stand· by waitingj waiting with Winfield and with Union baseball. Baltimore awaits their first Win of the season; Union awaits justice- fair weather and fair umpires. Last Tuesday night's weather report was bleak-· tem- peratures dipping into the 20's with a chance ()f flurries. Nevertheless the blue and tan vans set out for Bleecker Stadium in Albany. Facing a lefty from the . College of Saint Rose, Union started off with s,run first and second innings. Dave .Anderson walked and stole second to start the game. Shortstop Pat Sec· chiaroli walked and both run· ners advanced on a pass ball. Strong right-handed Tony Amarante, hitting .44:7, hit a shot to left to score Anderson. Tim O'Leary, with base bits in. abundance, singled in Sec- chiaroli and Amarante. In the second . inning, Sec• chiaroli's double down the right field line batted in Dan Klinger. Amarante then scored room· mates Bob Anderson and Seccbiaroli. Da11gerously skirting the corner af a tr~ck in left center, Dave Anderson and •rony Amarante fleet·footedl.y split nine putouts in the outfield. O'Leary; in right, escaped dealing with the track and in· stead gave St. Rose, who eventually won, 11-8, something to think about. His homer in the eighth made him two for three on the day with 4 RBI's. Two days later the baseball team traded in the variS for a bus and the city of Albany for the mCIWitains .of North Adams. The cold stayed Ellld jpined some snow which made for a \dangerous infield'~. Disap• pointed, the team. headed back to Schenectady after only bit-· ting batting pra~ice. With visions of. poodle skirts, jeans, and white t-shirts, the team .traveled to the Green Momttains of Vermont for a double header at Middlebury. UniOn lost, 8-6, in a rough game where underclassmen bats .and a controversial call in the sixth took center stage. In the sixth, Union was down by two runs. Designated hitter Matt Hoover singled Bill Brundige_ to seC()nd. With two . outs, Amarante ·singled to. center. Coach Reynolds waved Brundige past third for home. BrUndige nev.er realized tt.ere would be a play at the plate. The Middlebury catcher kneeled __ with his knee parallel· to · homeplate leaving Brundige with· 1ittle room to touch the bag. Had he had the ball~ the catcher woul<l have ·had the right to block the plate. The question was did he have the ball or not? Did Brundige toucl'l the corner. of t)le plate? All extremely delayed call by the wnpire called Brundig~ out on a rally which might have tied the score. · After that play, the spirits Qf the team diminished eXponentially. Not onlY was the call a bad one, but the umpire did not invite faith by apologizing for the call later on. Bill Weidman started off pitching strongly ln the- second grupe but Union fell behind, 9-5, in the fifth. Scott Goldsmith and Bob Anderson singles followed a Mark Callahan walk for .one rWl. Then with two outs, Pat Secchiaroli singled in Gold~ smith and Anderson. Tim O'~ary looked as though he were swinging for Chris Brush ~s house beyond the trees in the outfield, as he drove two doubles- to right and to center. The wnpires had already given the word that no more than seven innings would be played, due to the darkness that was beginning to encroach 011 the bitter cold and rain. As long as Union tied Middlebury in the seveath and held off any more r~s in the bottom of the inning, Unwn could break even. Marlt Trudeau started the inning with a doubl~ to left. He was followed by first baseman Dan Klingerj who had been hitting the ball hard to 1eft all day. In his last at-bat he powered tbe ball again r to left, this time for the tyitlg rWl of the game as Ken Horan held off Middlebury in Ute bottom of the seventh. Maybe. Onion will see scme decent weather and some decisive, fair umpires before the ~ason ends in mid-May. Maybe by the time this iS in p'rint the Brllins will have beaten the Canadians for the first time in 45 years. .And, maybe the Cleveland Indian.s will grant Sperts .mustratett's 1987 prediction tc finish f~ ln the .American League. Maylle.

