. . ~ CXV~I, No. 1.' Scbenectady, N.Y. STATI:STlCS ON 'TH.E CLASS OF 1992· Class ()f 1.992 528 Olass Size· Male:Female Ratio ·Number of Applications 50:50 3436 Class Qf 1.991 550 58:42· 3062 Restore The Nott Committee Prepares for Upcqming Aca.demic·Year .Applications: · · . Mate Female Applicants Aecepted Number- .of Interviews 2134 1302 39% 4000+ (predicted) 2006. 1056 48 6 k 3800+ By KEITH BEMlS After · ending a very successful term last· spring, Restore The No:tt Student Initiative .is about to begin a very important term for their Cl · · . f 1 9 9. ·2· Ad. d. . group. At their informational . · .. ass 0 • . . .· · .. ·. · .· •.. S . · meeting last Thursday, much ~ · · was discussed in what had Ne·w. S:trength ·to Union. ·happened since the end of , - spring term. By KEVIN W. IRLAND revamped. One issue of importance is that of fraternity In light of recent· admission and sorority membership. policy changes and the Some fraternities may find it additions of the College Center difficult to sustain their and Alumni Gymnasium, · memberships, while there is a many people have been asking, . possibility that new colonies \What effect has this had·on of national sororities may be the Class of 1992?\ added to the Union ca~tms. Both. bean of Students ·One highlight of the influx. of Joseph Manunola and Senior . . women, Mammola stated, is Assistant Dean of Admissions that as. women move into more Dianne <Jozier a~ee that the pronrlnent leadership positions, most visible effect has been on 'the College will hopefully the ma1e to female ratio. The ' become more attuned to the Class o( .1992. is the first issues affecting women, and Union class to have a ratio of this can only help to enhance 50:50. This ratio reflects a relationships both at the drastic change from the Class College and in professional of 1991, which· only had a life. . male to female ratio ·Of 58·:42. Aside from the male . to Though the effects of this female· ratio, there .are some change may not be felt for other very interesting aspects soine years, the possibility for about the Class of 1992. As in Keith Bemis, founder and preside.nt of the student initiative, reported that the. class of '88's gift fund was given to the Nott Memorial Restoration Fund. Also, he reported that through correspondence over the summer, Vice Preside.nt · • Rasmussen still wouldn't allow an article to be placed in alumni publications about the group or about the N ott Memorial. He mentioned that much information has been sent to the Department of Interior and they have expressed interest in this cause. Also, he reported that a request to be placed on the agenda of the Board of Trustees.· at their October meeting was sent out. That request has been answered with a meting with the chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Trustees. A basic outline of the restoration plans that the group supports was stated at the meeting. These plans were developed ftom the ideas conveyed during spring term. · The plan is as follows: Second and Third Floors-- Exhibit areas for the college museum First Floor-- . Meeting/reception -hall for meetings, rec-eptions, exhibits by various clubs and de'{Jartments, educ~tional lectures, debates, and discussion; Basement~-Conference room, music director's office, and curatorial space for future exhibits It was stated that Restore The Nott supports the view that th_e theater should stay on campus despite the move out of the Nott Memorial and should be given a pennanent home. The group states that the theater was placed there as a temporary home over twenty years ago and should have a permanent home in a liberal arts college. The group is planning to hold a rally -next Thursday at the Nott Memorial at noon to continue the raising of awareness on campus as well as off campus. They will hold a meeting on Sunday in the Atrium at Carnegie at 2 p.m. to discuss the rally and other items. . the nature of the campus to the past, the geographic change fs ~ distinct possibility· distribution of the new class is state.Mammola. a possible area about the same as that of recent of impact may qe ·housing years. The College received patterns, especially in light of 54% of its freshmen class fiom the College;s policy of New York and 29% from New guaranteeing housing · to · England;. with Massachusetts freshme~ · and sophomores. accounting for the second Areas of course offerings, . highest enrollment. In addition, athletic offeringsf and security 15% of tlie student body came policies may also have to be from the Middle Atlantic, Un.ion .. Rec.ipient of Three New Grants . . Central, Southern, and Western portions of the United States. The final·two percent of the Class of 1992 is made up of .. international students representing a ~ide range .of . countries. This figure does not . represent the twenty fotinal . exchange students that are . attending the College for the · .1988..\89 academic year. Crozier added that while all of these .. figures· have remained constant for the past few years, there has been a slight rise in students from the West and Mid-West due to increased College efforts in those areas. By JAY FREELAND News Editor Three scholarship foundations -have awarded Union with grants to begin the 1988-89. school year. The Biology Department, .the Latin American Studies Program and the Financial Aid Office have received funds for their use. The largest of these is a $900,000 grant from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Bethesda, Md. The fund is intended to improve teaching in the biological sciences and to increase the number of minority professors in this field . . Biology professor Peter Tobiessen will direct the allocation of the new funds. He stated in the Times Union on May 28 of this year that the funds will be used to recruit · New York City. Tobiessen also stated in the article that fewer students are choosing ta enter the sciences . causing a shortage of researchers and faculty · members. This program will Continued on page 3 September 22, 1988 CS·PA Awards Concordiensis With Another First Place By CATllERINE TQOMPSON Concordiensis was submitted in the Spring 'of 1988 for the Columbian Press Association Awards and Annual Review, along with 1500 other schools. The paper was awarded a first place rating . · The Columbia Scholastic Press Association, a department of Columbia University in the city of New York, was established in 1924 to help improve student · publications. The awards given are based primarily on overall excellence, considering the major cqmponents of Contents, Presentation and General Operation. For many years excellence of a college news.paper was based upon writing, reporting, . photography and design. In the last decade with the rapid advancement of new technology, college newspapers . began emulating the commercial press in every sphere. The standard for excellence now encompasses . more components--more closely mirroring the professional press. For a publication to be ' eligible for a first place rating it must obtain an overall numerical score of 850-924 · points out of a possible 1000 points. ConconUensis was awarded 873 points therefore making it eligible for a first place grading; achieving particularly high scoring in Overall Content 91% and for Depth Reporting a perfect score. The main theme to the critique published by the Columbia Scholastic Press Association was that Concordiensis consistently achieved a high level of professional journalistic Continued on page 3 The area where the statistics are most surprising is the area. · of acceptances versus yield. Yield refers to the percentage of students who accept Union's acceptance. For the Class of 1991, Union accepted 48% of . all applicants. Of that 48%, 39% decided to· attend Union .. · Continued on page 3 minority students from the · · Photo of the Week: Construction and confusion greeted students Capital District area as well as upon their arriva~ to campus.

CXVII, No. 1 STATISTICS ON THE CLASS OF 1992 Class of 1992 528 50:50 3436 Class of 1991 Class Size Male:Female Ratio Number of Applications Applications: Male Female Applicants Accepted Number of Interviews 2134 1302 39% 4000+ (predicted) 550 58:42· 3062 2006 1056 48% 3800+ Class of 1992 Adds New Strength to Union By KEVIN W. IRLAND In light of recent admission policy changes and the additions of the College Center and Alumni Gymnasium, many people have been asking, \What effect has this had on the Class of 1992?\ Both Dean of Students Joseph Mammola and Senior Assistant Dean of Admissions Dianne Crozier agree that the most visible effect has been on the male to female ratio. The Class of 1992 is the first Union class to have a ratio of 50:50. This ratio reflects a drastic change from the Class of 1991, which only had a male to female ratio of 58:42. Though the effects of this change may not be felt for some years, the possibility for the nature of the campus to change is a distinct possibility state Mammola, a possible area of impact may be housing patterns, especially in light of the College's policy of guaranteeing housing to freshmen· and sophomores. Areas of course offerings, athletic offerings, and security policies may also have to be revamped. One issue of importance is that of fraternity and sorority membership. Some fraternities may find it difficult to sustain their memberships, while there is a possibility that new colonies of national sororities may be added to the Union campus. One highlight of the influx of women, Mammola stated, is that as women move into more prominent leadership positions, the College will hopefully become more attuned to the issues affecting women, and this can only help to enhance relationships both at the College and in professional life. Aside from the male to female· ratio, there are some other very interesting aspects about the Class of 1992. As in the past, the geographic distribution of the new class is about the same as that of recent years. The College received 54% of its freshmen class from New York and 29% from New England, with Massachusetts accounting for the second highest enrollment. In addition, 15% of the student body came from the Middle Atlantic, Central, Southern, and Western portions of the United States. The final ·two percent of the Class of 1992 is made up of international students representing a wide range of countries. This figure does not represent the twenty formal exchange students that are attending the College for the 1988-89 academic year. Crozier added that while all of these figures have remained constant for the past few years, there has been a slight rise in students from the West and Mid-West due to increased College efforts in those areas. The area where the statistics are most surprising is the area of acceptances versus yield. Yield refers to the percentage of students who accept Union's acceptance. For the Class of 1991, Union accepted 48% of all applicants. Of that 48%, 39% decided to attend Union .. Continued on page 3 Schenectady, N.Y. Restore The Nott Committee Prepares for Upcoming Academic Year By KEITH BEMIS After ending a very successful term last spring, Restore The Nott Student Initiative is about to begin a very important term for their group. At their informational meeting last Thursday, much was discussed in what had happened since the end of spring term. Keith Bemis, founder and president of the student initiative, reported that the class of '88's gift fund was given to the Nott Memorial Restoration Fund. Also, he reported that through correspondence over the summer, Vice President Rasmussen still wouldn't allow an article to be placed in alumni publications about the group or about the Nott Memorial. He mentioned that much information has been sent to the Department of Interior and they have expressed interest in this cause. Also, he reported that a request to be placed on the agenda of the Board of Trustees at their October meeting was sent out. That request has been answered with a meting with the chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Trustees. A basic outline of the restoration plans that the group supports was stated at the meeting. These plans were developed from the ideas conveyed during spring term. The plan is as follows: Second and Third Floors-- Exhibit areas for the college museum First Floor-- Meeting/reception hall for meetings, receptions, exhibits by various clubs and departments, educational lectures, debates, and discussion; Basement--Conference room, music director's office, and curatorial space for future exhibits It was stated that Restore The Nott supports the view that the theater should stay on campus despite the move out of the Nott Memorial and should be given a permanent home. The group states that the theater was placed there as a temporary home over twenty years ago and should have a permanent home in a liberal arts college. The group is planning to hold a rally next Thursday at the Nott Memorial at noon to continue the raising of awareness on campus as well as off campus. They will hold a meeting on Sunday in the Atrium at Carnegie at 2 p.m. to discuss the rally and other items. Union Recipient of Three New Grants By JAY FREELAND News Editor Three scholarship foundations -have awarded Union with grants to begin the 1988-89 school year. The Biology Department, the Latin American Studies Program and the Financial Aid Office have received funds for their use. The largest of these is a $900,000 grant from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Bethesda, Md. The fund is intended to improve teaching in the biological sciences and to increase the number of minority professors in this field. New York City. Tobiessen also stated in the article that fewer students are choosing to enter the sciences causing a shortage of researchers and faculty members. This program will Continued on page 3 September 22, 1988 CSPA Awards Concordiensis With Another First Place By CATHERINE THOMPSON Concord i ens is was submitted in the Spring of 1988 for the Columbian Press Association Awards and Annual Review, along with 1500 other schools. The paper was awarded a first place rating. The Columbia Scholastic Press Association, a department of Columbia University in the city of New York, was established in 1924 to help improve student publications. The awards given are bast'd primarily on overall excellence, considering the major components of Contents, Presentation and General Operation. For many years excellence of a college newspap-:-r was based upon writing, reporting, photography and design. In the last decade with the rapid advancement of new technology, college newspapers began emulating the commercial press in every sphere. The standard for excellence now encompasses more components--more closely mirroring the professional press. For a publication to be eligible for a first place rating it must obtain an overall numerical score of 850-924 points out of a possible 1000 points. Concordiensis was awarded 873 points therefore making it eligible for a first place grading, achieving particularly high scoring in Overall Content 91% and for Depth Reporting a perfect score. The main theme to the critique published by the Columbia Scholastic Press Association was that Concordiensis consistently achieved a high level of professional journalistic Continued on page 3 Biology professor Peter Tobiessen will direct the allocation of the new funds. He stated in the Times Union on May 28 of this year that the funds will be used to recruit minority students from the Capital District area as well as Photo of the Week: Construction and confusion greeted students upon their arrival to campus.

I eage 2 CONCORDlENSlS, September i2, 1988 NEWS ANALYSIS The Presidential Candidates: The Men Behind the Masks • Campus P;o:Htlcal Group See,ks Student Support By JED FERDINAND The 1988 ,presidential campaign has been remarkable for an of the wrong reasons. This election has been a model for the downslide of contemporary American .politics: rhetoric has replaced substailce,. and personal attacks have replaced issues. Furthermore,. the candidates are promoting their own agenda by promising solutions withoUt sacrifice. For years the American public has suffered through campaigns with lofty promises; the time has come for the candidates to deal'with political reality. Since the two convenlions, . both parties have managed to take the focus of the election .away from the issues by engaging in fierce attacks on the opposing candidate's personal character. The· Democratic National Convention was a carefully • orchestrated affair, devojd of any discussion of substantial • issues, With abundant cries of \where was Ge0rge\ the· Democrats managed to divert attention away from their inadequate ,platform; and unpatriotic. Should such importance be placed on the fact that Michael Dukakis supperted a prison furlough program, or that he had disdain for m.aking ,the Pledge of Allegiance mandatory in public schools? Why not address tbe . _real problems facing \'Both parties . • . have engaged in fier.ce ~tta·cks on the opposing candidate's persooal character~\ The Democrats are,obviously astute students of political histery, as their convention emulated that of the Republicans • in 19SO. Th·ey played it safe by keeping their platform brief, and managed to associate George Bush with all of the Reagan administration . • difficulties (as the Republicans ----------- did successfully in 1980 to . Jimmy Carter). Thus, the· De·mocrats successfully bolstered their own image of competence and managed to make a mockery of Goorge Bush. The Republicans have not fared much better. They have inflated the importance of minor issues to make Mjchael Dukakis appear soft on crime Americans: the farm crisis, the trade and budget deficits. These manueverings have caused the political metamorphosis of George Bush: from.a political joke to a self-assured agressor. Yet, they have alsO: furth>ered the campaign's degradation. The campaign has sunk to a . position whereby each party uses scurrilous attacks on the GE Open House. For toiDorrowS . business leaders .. If you're at the top of your class, chances are you're set for an interview with GE. Our Open House \\ill let you make the most of that interview. How? By-giving you an inside look at the GE businesses that 'Will tie on campus. So you can sign up to interdew the one that best suits your interests and goals. Use the Open House to explore us. So you can use your interview time to talk about you! GE Open House Date: September 27, 1988 Time: 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. Place: Old Chapel (at Union) . Disciplines: ME,. EE, Civil Eng., ,. Chemistry, Comp. Scie~ce, Mathematics GE Businesses: Aerospace, Corporate Research and Development, Knolls Atomic Power Laborntory, Machinery Apparatus Operation,. turbine 'Raining Programs: Manu:fucturing Management Program, 'lechnical Sales Progiam • ·The mark of a leader. . .opposition a~ a basis for tbeb: · . own legitimacy. . AnQther factor fostering the ·taint~ strategy of .this election is the fact that many Alnerican • voters stilt do not 'have a true · .perception of the candidates, or • what they represent. The fault . By DENISE FEINSOD . aJtd MELANIE MASTERSON li~s with tile candidates ·· We would like to draw your themselves. whose messages .. attentioll to .a newly formed . have been inconsistent and • . organization on campus, contradictory. Rather .than act • ·. SP AA. SP AA is the Students . in a straightforward manner, . for Political Awareness and the candidates have hidden · . Action. It. is a group which - behind a Ca•refully . seeks to promote ·camp\lS manufactur~ electable image. • awareness of social . and Through an incredible . political is~ues. Acc<>rd.ing to. di,splay of cam})'aign their constitution, SPAA's contradiction, George Hush has , purpose is: 1. To. e~am:ine attempted to win over two · issu~: international,. domestic, important constituencies, tile or within this CDUege, which new-right and the Rea·gan affect us as Union College Democrats~ To.the new;.right, students. and 2. To :bring ~b.e bas ple<lged himself as a true · education and ·awareness of conservative, swearing to stop • these issues to the Union the senseless murder of unborn College CQlllmunity. babies,, to p.ut prayers in Last spring, on the twentieth schools, and· to never raise anniversary of the ~st.ooting of taxes ... To the Reagan,' P,r. Martin Luther. King. ·Democrats~ ·BuSh has sounded. S:PAA co-~.pon:sored a like a progressive, fighting for · candlelight vigil in his honor education and' for the \little ·. with BLAS, the Black and guy\. Yet, Bush is neither me ··Latin Alli,ance of Students. On darling, of the right nor the May 26, SPAA sponsored defender of the .common man. Latin America Day. This He is an eastem establishment program, which was not funded moderate, who needs these two by the Union College Student groups to ensure an electoral Forum, consisted of aJI day victory. educational and fun activities. Th.e Democrats are not above · There was Andean music by a this deception either, pledging . Chil~an musical group, a Michael Dukakis as a. \teach-in\ involving professors \Many American voters still do not ·have a true perception of the candidates, or what they :represent.\ · speaking on many diverse topics, a discussion with . · Hispanic 1 U11ion students. a • slide-snow about Nicaragua, and a Benefit Concert in the · evening. SPM also provided a · forum for . the discussions ·surrounding dissatisfaction moderate, when he bas always • with 1 as r year's exhibited liberal views. This · Comme11cement spealeer, Peter past week, Michael Dukakis ·Grace. intimated that ... he would This year, SP AA has· many consider further fundingfor the projects plan ned.' On Star Wars program if it proved September 26, 'American feasible. This. comment was Pictures is coming to Union. spoken from a man who,. in the · This is a well-renowned slide- . p~t. supported a unilateral show depictin·g . American disarmament 9f nuclear culture~ On September 28, weapons. SP AA is spo11soring the These inconsistencies are an . League of Women's Voters, alar_ming aspect of this year's who- will be on campus with presidential ·carnivaL The voter registration material. candidates have made . it SP AA is planning to sponsor increasingly diffic11lt t() ·educational forums every two distinguish. beiween perception weeks on various political, and reality. We formulate our . social, aad environmental oninions based on character issues. · · attacks and false images. We 1 SPAA ~sa gro11p concerned elect the candidate based on· · with appealing to the diversity unrealistic campaign promises~ · ~f s~udents on this 'campus. . Then, once elected, we become . 'thejr meetings t3ke place disillusioned aS the candidate is • Sunday nights at 8:30 pm in U!'able to meet our · r~om 410 of the College expectat~ons. Such · is the Center. All are enco1ll'aged to . American elecwrai cycle. ~ttend. · ./ Gala Glasnost Evening · . On October 3rd the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Corporatio~ announces a Gala . · ·Fund- Raiser. The night, will feature a . concert by · the Buffalo Philhannonic Orchestra under th·e direction of Russian born Semyon Bychkov at 8:00p.m. The Zakuski Buffet featuri;ng Russian Hors o~oeuvres Witt take place from 5:30-7:30 p.m~ in the lobby. For. more information, call . the Troy Music Box office at (518) 273-0038. . . ' '. ( ,,.

•• New Ad ·.. . . . IDlS:SlOnS P . . .1. \ . 0 lCleS Yield Po·sitive Results Con.tlnuad from page 1 While the yield for the Class ()f 1292 remained the same, 39%, · the number of applicants that were accepted by the College fell to 39% from the• previous year~s 48%. In other words~ the College accepted ·fewer students and .retained its tate of yield. This translates into a far more selective cla$S, especially in light of ·the fact that applications ros.e roughly . . eleven percent from the pre~ous year. One issue which is of great importance and on which the data is inconclusive, is the fact that the Class. of 1992 is the first that was not required to s11bmit SAT scores. The College does know that 2.5% of tbe applicants did not choose to submit scores. Beyond that, Crozier says that· the College has compiled academic data on submitters and non-submitters .. This and other data is being · compiled and a formal study is being conducted by Assistant Dean of Undergraduate Studies Terry Weiner~ But the impact of the SAT decision won't be known for some time, says Crozier. Both Mammola and Crozier express similar sentiments when asked 'about the Class of 1992. Mammola senses that the Class of 1992 is happy to be at Union and that Union · was its first choice. Backing ~is statement up, Mammola states that when he arrived six y.ears ago many students expressed openly that. Union wa;s · their s·econd choice. Crozier, as well as Mammola, believe·· that the physical- appearance of the camplls has played an important role in the manner thatj:>eople view the College. · The ·physical attributes of the College, _ Crozier states, create a sunny picture of and for Union. The Admissions Office has received many positive comments -on the Gatesmen, the campus, and most importantly, people saying that they are having good e,xpetiences while at Union. Based on the statistics from the Clas_s of 1992 and the favorable comments from families visiting Union, it appears that the changes .tbat have been made are paying off for Union and hopes for cont,inued success are high; Award. • • Continued from page 1 output. This qualification can be substantiated by comparing last year's award grade when Concordiensis again -earned a first place slot, that time· with me:Rt. In the words of the Judge•s· summary-\¥ ou 'redoing a great job,\ · CONCORJ)IBNSJS·~ Sopteml.Jer Jl, 1988 Pilge 3 College to Take Advantage of Scholarship Acquisitions ·continued from page 1 attempt to steer more students i:tl' the direction of science- . oriented programs . . The U.S. Department of Education awarded a grant ·Of $57,.325 to Union's Latin American Studies Program. This grant will be used for the development ·Of three new • • courses concentrating on the Latin American country of Brazil. --- . In a Union College News' Release, Associate Professor of , Soc:iology ·Martha · Huggins · stated that ''Brazil is crucial to :. United State$ foreign policy. . Proud members of Delta Upsilon pose in front of newly acquired house. · and economic prosperity. For the present, at least, it is Latin America's largest democracy. 1 ' Profess()r Huggins, wbo is Delta Upsilon Celebrates New Charter And New Honse On lSOth Anniversary By STEPHANIE. JARYNA III, Union '47 and a Delta Upsllom Quarterly, July 1988, the Union Sesquecentennial Celebration was !eallY an event to celebrate the fraternity's re-activated chapter ·status and their new the- director of the project, attended a Sloan Foundation .. Workshop on Appropriate 1 Technology~ Huggins intends : to include the concepts from. this seminar- as hands-on · components of the new . c()urses. The third scholarship received by Union is from the UPS Founc:lation, the main charity of the United Parcel Service. Thirty-one independent colleges and universities in New York received $60,450 each from a $18.8 million The 1988-89 academic year · Upsilon alum. Wallace's is already proving successftll · speech touched on Delta for Delta Upsilon. This month Upsilon's past and future. He has seen its 150th anniversary . addressed the long history of celebration; its return to aclive . the fraternity at Union as well chapter status, and the foma1 · as at .the other colleges. He inltiation of 25 of its continued by juxtaposing its members. On September 30, · ~istoty with the prospects of the fraternity will also close ' Delta Upsilon and its the purchase of their new house · ~upcoming responsibilities as at 740 Union Street. :an active chapter. Delta · house. which is pres~ntly undergoing renovations, as well as the 150th anniversary . Along with fraternity president . Tom Conqolly and fraternity · officers., Delta Upsilon Cotporatt()n Trustee and alum Ralph Fisher had an active hand ·in organizing' the The Union chapter, Delta's Upsilon had been on \alumni Upsilon's oldest chapter in the reconstructive\ status after the nation, was the honoree of the · fraternity lost their on-campus Union Sesquec.entennia1 housin~ in the fall of 1986. · anniversary event at Union. · func.l. · The grant will be used primarily for student aid and scholarships. The func:ls are being distributed through the Independent College Fund of New-York,. Inc. of which Union is a member. In nine years the UPS Foundation has · · provided over $7 million for scholarships and student aid. With the start of a new school year, aU of these grants · and scholarships will prove to be both helpful and rewarding for the Union College edllcational environment celebration this past September 10. Delta Upsilon ·alumni, trustees, and nation ·officers were present at the event along with the brothers and their family members. Also am~ng • the guests were Dean of • · Students Joseph Mammola, · Interfraternity Council ' President Chuck McGavem, . and President Jobn Morris. The . · eveni:tig long celebration . • included a reception in Hale House followed by a dinner in · Old Chapel. Union graduate ('44) and Delta Upsilon alum, ·Rex Moon, served as master of cer~monies. The keynote speaker was William Wallace Treasurer of Union's Upsilon chapter Sandy Hudson '90 commented on the 150th anniversary in light of their new housing. \Although we've gathered in celebration of 150 years of past, it is the dedication ()f the present brothers which we must also salute. If it wasn't for the desire of all these brothers to keep D.U. alive and strong throughoat the two years of hardship, there would not be a D.U. at Union today. I think we've done a great job in the last two years. considering the circumstances.\ According to the Delta Delta Upsilon was founded at · Union i11 1837. Originally the beta chapter, Union's Delta . Upsilon has become recognized as the (Jldest chapter in the fraternity after the alpha chapter was dissolved at Williams College. Delta Upsilon's · Union-·-chapter is also one of the oldest members of the · National Interfraternity Council. Delta Upsilon of Union boosts a history as a leader in the break-away from the former underhanded politics of early secret societies and still remains as the only non- secret fraternity on campus. 1987-88 Dean's ·List Members: Javad Sedehi Robert P. Selkin Jill F. ShBllebrook Michael L. Silbentein Aime J, Simon Wendy E. Smith Keith S. Sul100 Elizabeth L. Tan Kimberly B. Tillotron Beth E. Waldman Laum D. Weissbacb DavidJ. Whimey Dawn M. Willetts Guye A. Willison Kathryn A. Joscelyn Suzanne M. judson Laurn C. Justus CLASS OF 1989 I.auri M. Adelstein Raud K. Alamin: L~l'lll,..Andt;rSOl\ 'l1ti!resa ·P . .Aquino Matthew H. Arnold Jonathan E. Artz Amy·L. Babolf Stephen E. l!arki!ulf Melissa.A. J!eal Marlaina G. Bonnes Diane M. Brusdtetti Sheri L. Burger .Angela M. Bllrke Kevin. M. Buttigieg LawaOmi(ly Daniel R. Clapper Rita A. Clement Ruth A. Cohen Tho~ G. Coimolly Kathleen CuJiinlln Marcie Daniels James J. nesldano Debra M. Pkker Hobert J. Donohue Ricbtrd E. Durbin Eric Dykstra Alison C. EpStein Mark S. FoJ'Chilli C..tberiDe M. Forth Hope R. l!recdman Kat.beclne j. Galtocy Kevin ll. Gardner Oui!topber w. Geib Timothy F. Getman Cnig S. GOO!mm ltat.berioe G. Green David C. G=nlaw Paul B. Hal.ligail ~M.Heukind Philip S. He;s Anne M. Hoban Bruce E. Hopkins Robin S. jacobson Stephan T. J~eger Edwl!d J.]ohnSOI! jennifer A. J~n r- SaXt A. ]ones David L. Kasow Matymargatet Keniry. Bry~.\e D. i<inl . J(y!c;G. King claudine M. Klein IIana L. Klein Rebecca A. Koopmann Kathryn A. Kurtz Mark Landrio :K.rcn M. Larsen Dina B. Lee SingY. Lee Chad s, Levin Paul J. Levine Andn:w D. Lipmait Andrew B. Livernois Kristine A. LoP\lro Ptter M. M!lll~ Jolm A. McQueen Robin L. Miller Michael D. Moore Michele Monleno Gcorg~P. Motyka Mary A. MtJXpby Kenneth JJ. Newman Tuan A. Nguyen Lisa R. Ni=ia Midlcllc A. :Nus1baum LeslleA.Omer John C. PedeiSen Jlrlldlcy R. Peters Diane A. PiltOCdd Tristan A. Pivacek. Allan B. R.apjJleyea Palricia L. Reilly Tammy M. Richardson- Richard H. Roberts Ellen M. Rosner Srevm fl. Scheichet Mary Arui T. Schiaua Scott D. Segal Ezra G. Shmnan David A. Shinbccg Ingrid J. Short Sharoo B. Slotnkk Jeff~ W. Smith lllia L.Sotsky Barbara A. Stastny RiChard John Sorbero Steele J cruilier A. Stolz Evelyn R. Sullivan KIUell Laree Taylor Eugene A. Terwilliger Debby Tung Lakshmi Vadlamudi Tmcy G. Valachnvic Joseph F. Voyticlty Robert N. Waxman Ronald L. WiUson Beni B. Wolf David J. Wyrocky Pbilip J. Zoccheo CLASS OF 1990 Mohamad Knsim Abdu!Jalil Janet Agoglia Carolee ·R. Allen Marl\ T. Allen Kristin A. Allison LoraJean Anrona Deborah E. Atwood Kclkc A. Barnard Amanda.P, Bernhard Darren T. Binder Me!iSsll A. Bloom NicM!as F. Boch ]OOllJIC I. Jlomotein Jeanne A. Bouclwd Lillda C. Brod<man Lisa M. Brown Curtis A. Butler Cs.ndy L .. Butts Sbirley M, Cagle Laura Calvi Antbiklia·Canssavas Lisa M. Carlson Wtlliain F. Case John P. Ciardullo Mary Jo Conley Nal!cy A. Conway Bl'ianJ. Cossaboom Peter R. Comt Jeanne M. l)aley Kristin S. Dawson Robili.L. Denenberg •Jill T, Deutsch MaoDinh S. Bradford Doyle •Daniel J. Elkesllls5)' .Marc j. lllkowitz Tonia L. Ellsworth Jennifer E. England Lori A. Estes Lawrence T. Festa Karen A. Flahive Andrea I. Freifeld Andrea E. Goldberg .Anne E. Gould Christopher F. Grimaldi Karl S. Hartmann Robert T . .Harvey Susanne M. Hoff Debra B. Honig Kevin C. Honikel David K. Jude1sohn George E. Kenny Michael T. Klinglcsmirh Erris Langer MelisSa B. Levine Jeffrey A. Liberman Rhonda P. Loner Sbarlyn J. Luby Robert Maciag Kerry M. Mcltibbin joel L. McKuin Denning R. McTague Andn:w D. Mill\' Candace Mills~Gmz Therlin Montgomery MicheUe M. Mmitoruoy Laura-Eve Moss Ananth V. Mudgil Ann C. Mulvany MichaelS. Norwalk Enior P. Olschwang Douglas L. Pie= James L. Poirier . Gina M. Prokosch Gretchen Reineke S~atty A. Renner Lawreru::c D. Roseathnl Nancy S. Rothbeqj Jamaludin Snat CLASS OF 1991 Veronica A. Albanese Nancy L. Beck Mark W. Becket Elizabeth A. Berliner Eugene J. Bernard Mauri!$ S. Boon Jennifer J. Charlap Catherine K. Chiu Stephanie A. Cuccaro Amy L.. Damarjian Laurie S, Davidson Kimberly M. Davis James D. DQkt::tte Alan F. Eisenberg Petra V. En2ien MamiJ. Ezra Gregory A. Falcigno Tracy A. Fay Diane A. Ferran Michael M. Fonte Deborah A. Freem1111 Tracy A. Furn~y Neha J. Gajjar Eli\' A. Galliven Lisa M. Ghcnoiu Josh A. Glassman John A. Goncalves Samh J. G\\'nwald lm A. Gurland Marthew F. Guyette Chadlee D. Hall Joseph R. Hayes Laum A. Heffernan Julia A . .Ho&ran LynnA. Hyde Bruce J. llr.elheimer Susan.B. Kannel Aaron S. Katz Peter N. Katz Kathll'ell C. Kaufman Daniel ]. Keniry Susan R. Kerich !)avid C .. Lai Rebert P. Landin Kathleen M. Lawliss Cathy c. Lee Franz T. Litz Kristina M. Lynch Matthew J, Malatesta E.llen T. Matloff Sheila E. McCabe Cbristine M. McCarthy Martin W. McKee Eric B. Miller Kelly A. Mooney iohfl E. Murphy ~ynette D. Nielsen Kimberley L. Olmsted Patricia L. Pacem Joseph R. Paskowski Lisa M. P,lomik )ames P. Powers T~y I. Pryluck Ituaia S. Qureshi Jill 0. Reidy Kimberly J. Reynolds Mark G. Richter J~M.Rivers Melissa A. Rogers MI!Illaret B. Rosenberg Edmund M. Rothellbe<g Natnlie M. Rudko Ahmad Kamal Shamsuri 'feresa M. Sibeni Michael M. Skarbinski Michael P. StroUa Erika B. Studint Hairec Sunaaidi David J. Sussman Todd B. Swanz Beth Taylor Tamra L. Tibbetts Jcrdan S. Weiner Scott R. Weisberg RichardT. Werdmm Chrlsropher E. Willey

Page 4 FEATURES By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor Save these dates and times, Thursday, September 29 2-'6 p.m., Friday, September 30 7- 11 p.m. and Saturday, October 1, 12-4 p.m. and come to the College Center \To Get Plastered\·. That's right, literally - \Get Plastered\. No, it doesn't involve alcohol or the unpleasant after effects of excessive consumption. It's better, it's creative original a.nd a good time, no sacrifices necessary. This may be a once in a life time opportunity to reproduce your own face. All of you are invited and encouraged to participate in the unique ptOcess of making plaster masks of your faces. Now you tefl me · the last time an , opportunity like this came your way. ·CONCOll.DlENSlS, S~1Jtember 22\ 1988 . \Get Plastered'' accommodated so reserve your place September 27-29 from 12 noon to 12 midnight at the Informa~ion booth in the College Center or they'll be_ gene before you. know it. Ms. S:hermar1 wiU be discussing th.e ,mask making project Thursday, Septmeber 29 at Minerva H-ol,ll\ U .a.m. in the CoUeg.e Center Auditorium. Come and leam about what your \getting yourself' into\. Corne and \Get Plastered';. WHALE WATCH '88 . September 23,24 Provincetown. Cape Cod Prese·nted by the Biology Club - Biology De,pa:rtrnent ''Getting Plastered\ is more than a creative method in which to express yourself, flex your muscles and reveal the true artist in you, it is the perfect chance to meet other students and faculty outside of the traditional academic and social campus settings. Just so you don't accidently plaster yo1.1r entire body · Maggie Sherman, a visual artist from Montgomery, Vermont will guide the three mask making sessions. Maggie has successfully conducted similar mask .. making workshops on other college campuses, in her hometown where about 400 of the town's 600 residents participated on the project and in Tennessee where masks of twenty-five notable Tennesseeans were created. This Fit of Mine There's more! It doesn't end here. The masks wiH be displayed on campus from October 11 to November 23. The opening party will be October 11 4-6 p.m. The exhibit entitled \Faces Off At Union\ will travel to the Rice Gallery of the Albany Institute of History and Art for three months this summer. Only 250 individuals can be Write for CONCORDIENSIS. x6155 By MARK HAUGHTON Featu1•es Eciitor So, we're back::. Cleverly disguised as Seniors, we wonder the campus knowing just were to go, just when to be where and when not to be anywhere. We lack the confusion, the bewilderment, and the ignoraace of scene. Sounds like no fun. The only new terrain are those f'():x holes designed to let tiS: know that by the time we graduate there will l>e a functional J1eatingsystem. It is all sort of sad but forgone a.nd expected. We have heard f<>ur years of Senior st<>ries. It is not as if we didn't know. So, we're back. The parttes are no longer awesome. We hate crowded spots. We seek solitude. We count days. We wanted a single but got stuck with the same friends that we have lived with for tllree years; and what a witty lottery system that was! So,. we're back. Back to run away. It is the last year of our lives that we will ever experience a summer. vacation, winter break, or spring break. By the way, what are you doing this spring break? Are you going to the Bahamas.? Are you going skiing in Colorado, or has your dad decided the family will take a trip to Club Med this year. \Be sure to invite a friend dear.\ Perhaps you are slumming it in Florida. I didn't think so. I know; your finishing up . your application to Med school, you mean you missed the MCAT! I see you took the LSAT instead. No. You are ambitious. Yoa have been on top of your deadlines and are at home chewing off the last bit of nails on your fingers. You chewed your thumb off two · days ago when your safety said, \yeh right\ Oh, what a spring break we'll have this year. · I . just tried to help a Freshman log on the computer and he didn't have an account. God. what a fool. See what I mean. What is left to know? Unfortunately, we as Seniors, have been equally endowed with the answer to .that question. I'm struck hard with the reaH:z;ation that I'm supposably ready for the :real wo:dd. Don't forget to vote.' So next time your a sen~or, · approximately' 44 years from now in the year 2032, remember what you can and seek that solitude that one can only find at the end .of the ~ tainbow. · So, we're back. .:..•*******************************************•*******· • • ~ . . ~ . ~ Red. Cross Raffles New York Giants Tickets ! ~ The Albany Area Chapter of +: ~ the American Red Cross is t ~ raffling four great prizes iC ~ tickets to see New York Giants +: ~ play at the New Jersey ! ...- Meadowlands. Raffle tickets are +: ~ $1.00 or 6 chances for $~.00. • · _, Drawing for the prizes will be t _, October 7. +: t The games to be raffled are: t ~ . * 4 tickets to the Detroit +: t L10ns game, October 16, at 1 +: ~~n . t _, * 4 tickets to the Dallas • t Cowboys game, November 6, • _, at 1 p.m. t ~ * · 4 tickets to the • REGISTRATION BY MAIL t Philadelphia Eagles game, • ENos· Tu· ES OCT.· 11· ·~ November 20 at4 p.m. . i' · · ., s .. • * 4 tickets to the New York t Sponsored l)y Your New York $tate Board of Elections ~ · ~**************************************************~ Jets game, December 18, at 1 · p.m. All seats ~e reserved and under cover. Tickets are available at many local t;avems and restaurants, or by calling the Albany. Chapter at 462- 7461, extension 257. All proceeds of the'taffle go to support the ongoing services of .the· Albany Area Chapter of the American Red Cross. The Albany Area Chapter provjdes many services to the community including services to victims of disaster~ health and safety education, youth services, b1ood services ·and service to military families and veterans.

.. ~ CQNCORDlENSl~, September 22,. )988 P~ge S FEATURES Talk· of .the Town Photos and. 'Interviews by Susan Kersch Concordiensis recently asked nev1 students: \What is the most embarrasing thing that _has happened to you since you arrived at Union?'' \\'« \Aft$r commenting that most Russian workers are shot when tt.ley stfike, ·I was .informed that '\it was not like that anymore,\ I inquired whete he was from· ... .the Soviet Union.\ Paul l,zblck~ '91 \I· walked in to get my laundry and some guy was taking my underwear out of the dryer and checking. it out.\ Roxanna We'lnsteln. '9·2 D . · o t· w· · .6)·t·t· . tntng . . u . .·. ·.. 1· · 1 Ollie & Morris By STEVEN COLE and BRETT MALOFSKY :fie>:, . ·• .. 1 sleep in the top bunk, and one night I was really trashed, I tossed over the side of tne bed and landed one right on my room ate. Steve Hartman '92 \Having all of West waiti,:,g outside during a fire alarm, while I was carried outside- Liz haddisappeared and lhave no memory of it,\ · Liz MacArthur & _ Debbie Danforth :X: ~ ,c: ~ \I ·fell in a 1 hole and over the West wall some assistance was required.\ Ins-urances Pulled By TOM SARTINI z Eleven Union College ~ · fraternities are presently facing iti the loss of liability insurance. . o As of October 1, 1988. the · 6 New Hampshire Insurance ~ Group will no longer offer We. welcome you to the column of culinary delights, cheap dives, and if we can .get jobs on· campus, fine dining. I This should also eventually · include an extensive survey of the area. 1 S. Chinese r.estau.rants. Unfortunately, this week's restaurant of choice was not open at the late Sunday hour that we had chosen as our frrst rep.ort. No problem. R~ght? Ol~ie quickly rattled off some of his favorite :fast food restaurants, which included the Coloners. We both laughed when we realized our first review of the year should be a fine, respectable place with appetizers, French wine, or at least ·metal silverware:-oh well. Ollie and Morris coverage to those houses. ·Liability in·surauc e on Woodworking, RiJman·ce, ·and Budgets are Part of Unio·n's Non-credit Offerings this Fall . . We entered Kentucky Fried Chicken ·On State Street, and SCHENECTADy, N.y. were greeted by the atmosphere (September 2)--Union · which consisted of beige College's \Leisure Learning\ plastic~ earth tone tile, and real program of non-credit courses uncared-for plants. There was offers Capital District residents · · rio line and the help was not a choice of 12 different classes · only courteous, but also thi~ fall, beginning September bubbly and genuinely ·warm. 19. Area business peopl~ and Morris went with the Colonel's educators provide ·the original recipe chicken dinner instruction for these courses, including cole slaw, whipped which vary in time and length. potatoes, and a southern Union's Professor Peter I biscuit. Ollie followed suit, 1 ! but opted for the extra crispy lieinegg, a regular contributor to the s chen e ·C tad y chicken and a Dr. Pepper Gazette, will offer \Great 1 (becausehe's a pepper). · Book~ T1te Evolution . of We both found the whipped Romantic Love\ on six potatoes to be drowned in a Tuesday evenings, beginning strange brown .sauce. Gravy, October 4. we assumed. They seemed to Other · courses include be Whipped v~ry smooth~ but creative writing, writing had a clinical, and almost · mysteries, career alternatives, hospital, flavor. The other historic preservation, figure vegetable of the meal, cole drawing, chamber music slaw, was only sampled by discussions, and faq~.ily Morris as Ollie was taken back budgeting. by its watery appearance. The Office of Graduate and Morris was pleasantly surprised to find the cole slaw extremely f1'esh tasting and crunchy as he dug in. . Now for the main course: Chicken. We have yet to decide if the primary ingredient in Morris' original recipe was oil or chicken. As he picked up his ~ thigh, the chicken that is, his hand immediately glistened with grease. No crunch was to be foand at all, and the breading seemed to have the consistency of a sponge. There was a genuine fried chicken flav()r but little more can be said. Ollie's experience was considerably more enjoyable and he reco~ends the extra crispy to those who venture to KFC. The extra crispy was, however, still very greasy and was heavy on the ,salt The best part of out meal was by far the biscuit. We both agree, and found our.s to be crunehy and flaky on the outside and moist on the inside as a biscllit should be. There was a nice buttery flavor which was a definite plus and Morris used the Qiscuit to tetrieve some - of the potatoes. (Incidentally, the biscuit served us as well as the near famous plastic Spork provided at Continuing Studies is again ~--A-A·-· .. E-, -. -y\\\'·o-.u-. - 1 -N-. T· - .. E-R-:E-- .-S. -T-E-.D-IN--.., offering a series of Dinner Adventures. taking place on COMMUNITY SERVICE? Wednesday , evenings. beginning September 28. ·· DO YOU WANT. TO GET These are opportunities to ·INVOLVED WlTHI-.N THE enjoy a. fine meal, representing · · · · · ·. · a cuisine from anothereountry, SCHENECTADY COMMUNITY? and hear an infOrmal s1ide talk C · by an individual who. has The Career Development . enter IS tr.avelledor lived extensively in developing a community service program that country. The Pinner . \Yhich incorporates 40 agencies with volunteer Adventures will focus. on the jobs within the Schenectady/Albany area. We Soviet Union,. Ghana and need people to participate on the community Spain. They are $19 each or Service committee for ideas on guidelines and three for $50~ · · f h For more information about advertiSing Or .t. e program. the Leisure Learning program If interested; come to the Interest at Union College, contact the Meeting - Thursday, September 29, Office of Graduate and continuing studies, wens 4 PM Career Development Center House,. or call the office at • Old Chapel Third Floor. (518) 370-~638. ~ KFC). Dessert consisted of individual servings of \Little Backet Parfaits.\ We.shared the Lemon Creme and Strawberry parfaits for a double consensus. Peeling back the foil cover was a breeze and things were looking up. Both were cool, sweet and creamy, but we still found mixed results. The lemon creme tasted like a lemon meringue pie and had a fresh taste, while the strawberry shortcake was overbearing and not natural tasting. A disgusted Morris threw his parfait back into the meal box and moments later Ollie fmished. We chose not to rate this restaurant on any particular scale, however we can generally say it was far too greasy for our tastes. We don't care for sporks nor did we appreciate the cash register constantly beeping from errors. If you do visit the Colonel's it seems you should demand clean wipes on the way out (It's · finger wiping good). We invite you to read us weekly as we hopefully move on to better things. Mom, please send money. · average is- of one million dollar coverage. which is a Union College minimum requirement of the fraternities. Generally, liability covers bodily injury and property damage. Coverage is for injury to persons or damage tv others on or off the premises of each cl!apter. 1t also covers the .fraterluly when it is responsible for damage through alcohol consumption when not sold or not for profit. House employees, such as cooks and volunteers ate covered in the event of an accident or injury. In addition to these, many other items may be covered depending on the policy. The insurance was apparently . pulled on account of housekeeping details posed to be a life-safety risk. An inspection last spring gave the insurance company ample justification to pull the policy. The problems may not seem major to the members of the houses; however the insurance company- takes the position that for the two tllousand dollars or so each hoase pays annually for coverage that everything sl)ould be perfect. .continued c>n page 3 This past weekend tne Union Outing Club took a trip into the vast wilderness of the Adirondacks. We spent an enjoyable day hiking, spelunking 1 and rock climbing. This week's photos ara of a chasm that we discovered and explored.

. Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, Septemb~r ZZ, 1988- FEATURES •ESTABLISH JOB CONTACTS •INVESliGAT:E CAREER OPTIONS · •MEET GRAD SCHOOL REPRESENTATIVES •.LEARN ABOUT INTERNSHIPS · ·: Freshman through sroduofes welcome! For more informotio11 call the WEDN:ESDAY OCT. 5 . . . .. . ' 12-SPM· IN THE FIEtO HOUSE Career D~velopment Center ..• 370-6176. Big Brothers/B,ig Sisters.: Alive an,d _well at U!nion By MARK J. CARUSO Since 1980, students at Union CGllege have participated in the llig Brother/Big Sisters Program {!)f Schenectady County.. Participation in the prognm includes going through a .screening process witll the agency and then selecting o11e of three \tittles\ which tile· ag~ncy· feels are good. match'(ls for you. All Iittles are betw:een the ages of nine and fourtee:11. Student volunteers are ~xpectecl to designate approximately f'o:ur to six hours a week to spericl with their littles. Voluntee1s .are seen as caring students WbC> like kids and like. to have a lot of filn. If you have four ta s:iJC: hours available each week and are willing to commit at least a year of your time, you ue eligible to begin the process of becoming a big brother or big sister. Some of the events tile Union Bigs participated in. last year we're the annual bowl-a- · then, various get togethers, and visiti11g the Riverside Arnu~ement Park. Several ideas are in :tbe works for the) Fall term including a- picnic on October lst and a Halloween party at the end of October. This year, B.B/B..S. · have designated Karen McGann as the full-time Union College · caseworker. She will solely be the caseworker in charge of all the Uni()n College Bigs and plans t~ develop a close working relationship with the Corne experi er~ce · a.+ ' Uni{)n volunteers .. · We are also looking fo three or [()ur Bigs who are interested in j:().ini:ng the Executive coancil. As a member,. you will be asked to help in p.~anning events, attend mel:ltbly meetings, and keep in Colltact with approximately six ot,h~r Union Bigs. If any student is intetested in hec<Jming a member of the Executive Council or has any questions at all abou,:t th~ program, please contact Mark Caruso at 337-9110~ 0. . :.·' THE -STUDENT· FORUM NEEDS PEOPLE! If you are interested in apply·irrg ·for the following positions, contact Mrs. Marra in room 408, the College~ Center. •Student Forum Secretary ·s·enior Representative- petitions available T.hurs. Sept. 22 •General Education Board - •Mi·nerva Comf!l_ittee to he~lp coordinate programs for Mi·nerva Hour •Publicity C_ommitte~e- to advertise .for Student Forum activities. Pick up applicati'o.n in room 408, Col·lege Center I

Page 6 FEATURES Dear Legal Btie:t . I recently had intercourse with an individaa.l who was infected witll the AIDS virus. This individual did not inform me of his condition prior to our sexual encounter. I have contracted the disease from my partner. . . Faced with this trauma~ my family and I would like to bring legal action against this individual for failing to warn me of his condition and transmitting the disease to me. However, I was distr~ught to learn from a frhend that according to N~Y.S. L~w I have oot right tp.fi)e f(lr.a law ·suit, and my Pl.l~n~r :.d:id not have a legal obligation to warn. me of his· cQlli'ditiQ.p;.. ls this ttue? ' CONCORDIENSIS, September 22, 1988 .................. test. ... ,,... . . You m~y· ,~1}~~1;~·~ · ~o . that th~ ltl{ijy~~~9'l'/tS n~ttlg medically. tt:~J.t~ a$ an ·n;U;..r..:~ patient. How:ev.@.~~ under the same law, a. phy.&ic,ian is. required to ke!!p the condition of an .AIDS patient confidential .. If that physician vi<>lates .the confidentially, be will be subjected to criminal penalties. . S<>, un.f()rtunately,. ui:tless you get your partner to openly admit to a court of law that he is a victim of the AIDS virus~ and he willingly su.bjec.ts himself·to .. an AlDS. te&t'uln•t;;,·• times <.tlle: am<lttll:t re,Q~'il'~ .. prove· defjnJt• Jn~cti,Q~~.' •ESTABLISH JOB CONTACTS •INVESTIGATE CAREER OPTIONS • MEET GRAD SCHOOL REPRESENTA liVES •LEARN ABOUT INTEIU.ISHIPS WEDNESDAY, OCT. 5 12-5 PM Freshman through Graduates welcome! For more information call the IN THE FIELD HOUSE Career Development Center ... 370-6176. Big Brothers/Big Sisters: Alive and well at Union By MARK J, CARUSO Since 1980, students at Union College have participated in the Big Brother/Big Sisters Program of Schenectady County. Participation in the program includes going through a screening process with the agency and then selecting one of three \Iittles\ which the agency feels are good matches for you. All Iittles are between the ages of nine and fourteen. Student volunteers are expected to designate approximately four to six hours a week to spend with their littles. Volunteers are seen as caring stLidents who like kids and like to have a lot of fun. If you have four to six hours available each week and are willing to commit at least a year of your time, you are eligible to begin the .process of becoming a big brother or big sister. Some of the events the Union Bigs participated in last yea.r were the annual bowl-a- then, various get togethers, and visiting the Riverside Amusement Park. Several ideas are in the works for the Fall term including a picnic on October 1st and a HaHoween party at the end of October. This year, B.B/B.S. have designated Karen McGann as the full-time Union College caseworker. She will solely be the caseworker in charge of all the Union College Bigs and plans to deve1op a close working relationship with the (orne experience a.t Union volunteers. We are also looking fo three or four Bigs who are interested in joining the Executive counciL As a metnber, you will be asked to help in planning events, attead monthly meetings, and keep in contact with approximately six o~her Union Bigs. If any student is interested in becoming a member of the Executive Council or has any questions at all about the program, please coatact Mark Caruso at 337-9110. 0... .... THE STUDENT FORUM NEEDS PEOPLE! If you are interested in applying for the following positions, contact Mrs. Marra in room 408, the College_ Center. •Student Forum Secretary •Senior Representative- petitions available Thurs. Sept. 22 •General Education Board •Minerva Committee to help coordinate programs for Minerva Hour •Publicity Committee to advertise for Student Forum . activities. Pick up application in room 408, College Center . ' -.~ '.1 i

·I • .. I CONCORDJEJVSJS, September 22, 1988 Page 7 FEATURES Schaffer Library will hold a booksale om ttle fOllowing dates: · Fall Term September 28 October 19 November9 Reserve Officer Training Corps An Adve.nture In ~Leadership By MAJOR RJCHARD A.. VARGUS No sale in December- Winter Term. January 18 February 15 Spring Term March~ April26 May.24 During the course of your college studies, here at Union,~ , you may have seen unifonned personnel from time ta time : • walking throughout campus. The sale will run from 12:00 ... 4:00 pm on eacll of these days in the main lobby of Schaffer Library. Please save this schedule for your convenience. You probably have wondered what and who these strange · · looking ]>eQple were. Well they are members of the Army Reserve Officer Training i · Corps. These students, like ·: ·yourselves, are members of the Union Student Body, but ·nave Omeg,a An upside down horseshoe? No .. .It's \Omega Union's very own chapter of a nationally operated Greek honor society. Yes, it's a newly established organization here at Union, but a well known club across th.e country. The purpose of Omega is first: to reco;gnize those students who have attained a high standard of leadership in inter-fraternity activities, andte inspire others to strive for similar achievement. Secondly, Omega brings. together the most representative fraternity and sorority members in an organization that addres:ses local and intercollegiate affairs. Finally, we atte~pt tQ unite faculty, alumni, and .students on a basis of mutual interest; understanding, ~d helpfulness. Once again, we will be accepting applications for pQtential Omega members, with initiation scheduled for this fall term. Each fraternity/sorority will receive a notice expla·ining about . Omega~ asking for house nominations for our selection process. · The deadline for applications is Thursday, Oct. 6. So, keep' an eye out for OMEGA--maybe even you can be a member! Despite last Saturday's rain, lark Street was :filled with shopkeepers, entertainers and college students for Larkfest '88. Homecoming Colning - 3 Weeks ~====~============~~ Nn\.J I \<NOLJ T}l!S l$ '(O'J ~ fl~S~ 1\\Mt.; f'f(E$~Mf\N ~ l$\1 I DOt/1\ WOt\~Y I LIS p,g.:R.f\EC.4'i y SAF&l . . .. ;- ~ T ;' ~.·. /F. ~.~~.~'j'il ~ ' ' -:~''\')) \\_ '! ~~i!r opted to joill ROTC to accept a ·either in business, industry or of the classroom. Union challenging and rewaiding in governmental service. The students military science opportunity to enhanc~ their ROTC program allows a small courses are geared around your ·leadership ski:lls, as weLl as percentage of its graduating mandatory academic schedules. learn basic organizational · s~niors to compete for to insure that your courses of concepts about the United appointments in the regular study are not interrupted States Army. Army, but the numbers of All students will be issued ROTC is designed to train qualified personnel, and those free course materials, as well as young men and women to be desiring to pursue an active an issue of camouflage leaders. Many people do not duty commitment are small. fatigues, commonly known as realize or understand that our The main concern in our the BatHe Dress Uniform program places the majority of program is to help mold our (BDU). Participation in field its graduates into the US Army students into leaders. To train training exercises will place the Reserve or into .Ute Army them to be able to accept the cadet under a limited stressful National Guard~ where they challenges of the future and to environment, in realistic serve \in their hometowns, deal, analyze and make tough conditions. Do you think you while pursuing civilian careers, decisions, regardless of whether can meet this type of ______ __..._ ........... _____ I they are in the military or in challenge? Union Offers the civilian sector. As an Of the ROTC student body · Assistant Professor of Military here at Union, over 90% of Ways T~ Manage Science my .position is to mold those students are currently Yourself And and guide a student to be able receiving ROTC Scholarships. Your Business to achieve success, in any The scholarship provides 80% endeavor. By placing our tuition, expenses for books, students into leadership and a $100 a month stipend. positions within our With the majority of Union SCHENECTADY, N.Y. (August 28)-·0ne way to gain further training in managing people, conflicts on the job, and difficult workloads, is by continuing your education out of the workplace. organizational structure, they students entering school from ·~ receiv.e.hands. on experience as the top 10% of their high J managers, while learning how schools, the prospect for · to manage time and people. receiving a scholarship is Capital District residents can get that training through the non-credit courses offered by the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies at Union College. Individual courses can be taken, as well as sequences v of courses which lead . to certificates. in such areas as Management, Marketing, and Microcomputer Skills. Tuition varies per course and classes are sched~led in the · evenings, to accommodate people with busy schedules. For those people specifically inte.r;:ested in computer skllls, ·there is a wide variety of · courses at different levels, and involving various computer languages, All of the computer courses are held at the . Microcomputer Learning Center in Canal Square, downtown Schenectady. Classes vary in length and duration. The first course offered this fall begins on September 22. Others start on different d~tes. For registration . · and information, contact the Office of Graduate and • Continuing Studies, Wells . · I House on the Union campus. . Or.Call the office at (518) 370- .6638. . ROTC offers these challenges, excellent. Considering the cost which will better equip of colle·ge, the ROTC students for challenges outside Scholarship is a viable option of college; Our program not to repayment of ever increasing only provides a mental student loans. ,challenge, but a physical one Whether you wish to be in as well. For those whc the military or not, ROTC continue on and wish to does not force you to continue become Army Officers, the after your sophomore year. required advance camp places · You may be surprised to see you under physical stress, as that you do like the you rappel .down towers, challenging environment you co~struct 'and negotiate one are placed in. You may also be rope bridges, fire a myriad of s u r p ri s e d a t the Army weapons and develop accomplishments, both mental your bodies into the best and physical that you never physical shape of your lives. thought you could achieve. Our I'm sure that the majority of own surveys of major students think that by joining businesses within the capitol the ·ROTC that you are district have confirmed, that incurring a mandatory due to the leadership and commitment.. This is not the 'managerial training and case. The initial freshman (MS experience received during the 11 & MS 12) and sophomore students' ROTC participation, (MS 21 & MS 22) courses are that they would employ an conducted with no obligation ROTC graduate more rapidly to the student. Gommitments than a student with r.J formal are incurred when an individual leadership training. receives an ROTC Scholarship, The decision is yours. You or upon entering their junior are in the process of developing year of college. The first two your future careers. We in years are geared towards ROTC can help with valuable introductory courses which are training which will follow you required for all army personnel!. throughout your lives. If you Our MS 21 and 22 courses are are interested, please contact us solely directed to leadership and at 783-2565. You'll be glad management, both in and out you did. \ . Write for Concordy you Illeterate Youths Visit the Gardens ••• Bring a Friend

~ ' r! .I I CONCORDJENSIS, September 22, 1988 Page 7 FEATURES Schaffer Library will hold a booksale on the followimg dates: Reserve Officer Training Corps FaH Term September 28 October 19 November9 A:n. Adventure In leade,rsh i p No sale in December Winter Term January 18 February 15 Sp,ring Term March29 Apj:jl26 May24 The sale will run from 12:00-4:00 pm on each of these days in the main lobby of Schaffer Library. Please save this schedule for your convenience. By MAJOR RICHARD A. VARGUS During the course of your college studies, here at Union, 4 you may have seen uniformed personnel from time to time walking throughout campus. You probably have wonaered what and who these str,ange looking people were. Well they cue members of the Army Reserve Officer Training Corps. These students, like yourselves, are members of tile Union Student Body, but have Omega An upside down horseshoe? No .. Jt's Omega, Union's very own chapter of a nationally operated Greek honor society. Yes, it's a newly established organization here at Union, but a well known club across the country. The purpose of Omega is first: to recognize those students who have attained a high standard of leadership in inter-fraternity activities, and to inspire others to strive for similar achievement. Secondly, Omega brings. together the most representative fraternity and sorority members in an organization that addresses local and intercollegiate affairs. Finally, we attempt to unite faculty, alumni, and students on a basis of mutual interest, understanding, and helpfulness. Once again, we wi]!l be accepting applications for potential Omega members, with initiation scheduled. for this fall term. Each fraternity/sorority will receive a notice explaining about Omega, asking for house nominations for our selection process. The deadline for applications is Thursday, Oct. 6. So, keep an eye out for OMEGA--maybe even yoa can be a member! Despite last Saturday's rain, lark Street was filled with shopkeepers, entertainers and college students for Larkfest '88. Homecoming Coming -3 Weeks Nf)W I I \<NOW 11-ll$ IS YO\J~ fiRST 11('1\£.. f'KESI~I\\.1\.N - 8u I D0N 1 1 WO(l..~Y j I IS Pfi.fZF\E:C'Tt. '(' sl__ SAf~! ~ ~- ~'> T I,'-~~\ ;1-~~011 '\ _/ I • • >l ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ opted to join ROTC to accept a either in business, industry Ol' challenging and rewarding in governmental service. The opportunity to enhance their ROTC pre:gram allows a small leadership skills, as well as percentage of its graduating learn basic organizational seniors to compete for concepts about the United appointments in the regular States Army. Army, bu.t the numbers of ROTC is designed to train qualified personnel, and those young men and women to be desiring to pursue an active leaders. Many people do not duty coii11ll:it.ment are small. realize or understand that our The lllaill concern in our program. places the majority of program is to help mold our its graduates into the US Army students illto leaders. To traill Reserve or into the Army them to be able to accept the National Guard, where they challenges of dle future and t<l serve in their hometowns, deal, analy-ze and make tougll while pursuing civilian careers, decisions~ regardless of whether ----------- I they are in tile military or i11. Union Offers the civilian sector. As a11 W Assistant Pfofessor of Military ays To Manage Science my position is to mold yourself And and guide .a student to be able Y B · to achieve success, in any · our USiness endeavor. By placing our SCHENECTADY, N.Y. students ir..to leadership (August 28)--0ne way to gain positions within our further training in managing organizatiorul structure, they people, conflicts on the job, receive hands on experience as and difficult workloads, is by managers, wh.ile learning how · continuing your education out to manage time and people. of the workplace. ROTC offers these challenges., Capital District residents can which -w iU better equip get that training through the students f()r challenges outside non-credit courses offered by of college. Our program nol the Office of Graduate and only prQvides a mental Continuing Studies at Union .challenge, l:tut a physical one College. Individual courses can as well. For those whc be taken, as well as sequences continue <>n and wish to of courses which lead to become Army Officers, the certificates in such areas as required advance camp places Management, Marketing, and you under physical stress, as Microcomputer Skills. you rappel down towers, Tuition varies per course and construct ·alld negotiate one classes are scheduled in the rope bridg~s. fire a myriad of evenings, to accommodate Army w~apons and develop people with busy schedules. your bod.ies into the best For those people specifically physical5b.ape of your lives. interested in computer skills, I'm sure t11at the majority <Jf there is a wide variety of students thiuk that by joining courses at different levels, and the ROTC that you are involving various computer incurring. a mandatory- languages, All of the computer commitment. This is not the courses are held at the case. The initial freshman (MS Microcomputer Learning 11 & MS 12) and sophomore Center in Canal Square, (MS 21 & MS 22) courses are downtown Schenectady. conducted with no obligation Classes vary in length and to the stu<lent. Commitments duration. The first course are incurre-d when an individua3 offered this fall begins on receives m ROTC Scholarship, September 22. Others start on or upon entering their junior different dates. For registration year of C()llege. The first two and information, contact the years are geared towards Office of Graduate and introductory courses which are Continuing Studies, Wells required t()r all army personnel. House on the Union campus. Our MS 21 and 22 courses are Or call the office at (518) 370- solely directed to leadership and 6638. management, both in and out <>f the classroom. Union students military science courses are geared around your mandatoJ\¥ academic schedules. to insure that your courses of study are not interrupted. All students will be issued free course materials, as well as a,n issue of camouflage fatigues, commonly known as tile Battle Dress Uniform (BDU). Participation in field training e:xercises will place the cadet under a limited stressful environment, in realistic conditions. Do you think you can meet this type of challenge? Of the ROTC student body here at Union, over 90% of those st11dents are currently Feceiving ROTC Scholarships. The scholarship provides 80% tuition, expenses for books, and a $100 a month stipend. With the majority of Union students entering school from the top 10% of their high schools, the pros peel for receiving a scholarship is excellent. Considering the cost of college, the ROTC Scholarsllip is a viable option to repayment of ever increasing student loans. Whether you wish to be in the military or uot, ROTC does not force you to continue after your sophomore year. You may be surprised to see that y()a do like the challengtng environment you are placed in. You may aiso be surprised at the accomplishments, both mental and physical that you never thought yoll could achieve. Our own surveys of major businesses within the capitol district nave confirmed, that due to the leadership and managerial training and ex.perience received during the students' ROTC participation, that they would employ an ROTC graduate more rapidly than a stu<lent with £:) formal leadership training. The decision is yours. You are in the process of developing your futu. re careers. We in ROTC can help with valuable training which will follow you tbroughou t your lives. If you are interested, please contact us at 783-2565. You'll be glad you did. Write for Concordy you Illeterate Youths Visit the Gardens ••• Bring a Friend

. Page 8 CQNCORDIENSlS, Septe1tal1er 22, 1988 - ...... ''I dotit want a lot of hype. ·I just want& something I can count on . .,., Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you reatly want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just What you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a cost that's a lot less than you · think You can expect low · long distance rates, 24-hour · operator assistance, clear · connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. · And the assurance that virtilally all of your calls will . go through the first time. ,, That's th~ genius of the AT~TWorldwide Intelligent Network. When it's time to choose, forget the gimmicks and make the intelligent choice- AT&T. · If youi:llike to know more about our products or services, like Ifitemational Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1 800 222~0300. ATilT The ri.ght choice.

.cONCQRDl]lNSlS, September ~2,. 1988' Page 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY ~ · .. . . . . s···· .. Women In··. ·•·Clence By JEN ~OVE Union was vi~ited by RPI Profes~or, Belen B.ayly, this past Tues.day~ Site spoke at the 'Colloquiutn spollSorecl 'l)y the Society of Ph:ysies .Students (SPS) about tlte shift in attitude and ·r<~le <>f women in ;society. She. :specifically- addressed the t():pic of, ··women in, Science: Ha.,.e Conditions Cbanged : (ro111 Sputnik to Superconductivity?\ · She· questic;>l!ed 'tb.e actual progtess wome11 h~ve· made in the maJe ... domioitted. math and science field and ~lsoin society in general .. Ms. :Bayly discussed ~ the segregated -early educatiort she has re<Jei ved in bet . Australian ·sclto~Gi, The .girls w.ere trained ill Lati~, French, and ~ewing, wfuereas the boys were trained -:ilt math and science. Ii may :S~Ill absurd to the modem .SttJdent that this \ ' ' ~ was ever the c~e; but 1lS Helen Bayly· experiemed 'the search for Gne of tile few female bathrooms in Union's Science and Engineerin£ B.nilding, she wondered if ntu<Jb had really changed. A st:nall point, but perhaps a true reflection on the n~ed for change that is still present. Perhaps soci~ty's attitude and treatment of women hasn't changed as m-uclt as we would like te think .. :Rveri today there is debate and legal action trying to resolve the u11eq_ual tenure situation at RPI and other universities. W'()men are still a minority in th.-e · math and science fields. Professor Bayly warned us to be careful for a regression in tile pr(X;ess that has been mad.e· since the Sputnik was launched in 19S7. Sbe commented., \Eternal vigilance is · the -price of lib~rty. 1 ' . Some interesting questions arose during he lecture. Professor Bayly was asked if ~he thought the manner in. wb.ich science is taught should be changed to interest wome11. Sherespondedwith ~·definitive \yeS'' It is her belief that we are· trained as scieptists to coocentrate on s·e,perate problems a·nd not enough e~p.h asis is placed on significanyglobal issues su.ch as quality of the air, drinking water, the gr.eenhouse effect. She tblnks it is wrong to gear students towm:d the defense as women don;t tend to embrace the creation of \phallic\ weapons. . This brought up a11: interesting query. Is there an inherent ·biochemical difference in women that cannot be compensated .for that makes a difference in women's · conttibu.tion to the fielQ; of science:? Studies have show women are less likely to use a computer and are more l:ilcely to branch out from the bud sciences ·after training ami apply their discipline to more humani~ed topics. Professor BayJy. seems to think this is true and encourages women to broaden their horizons. She tells us, \You have ta ,go 011 with a lifetime of learning.' · Professw Bayly is a mother of several childr.:m, a member of numerou', committees including: Tre New York State Safe Drink:ng Water Advisory Committee of . which she is Chair, the United Natio'!}S Association to Promote Education of which she is a board member, and the League of Women Voters. She has been involved in the YWCA and educating fellow citizens .. For .example, Bayly is the founder of medical and general information newspapers and volunteered to. direct eight years of Pu.blic Affairs Television . .- ' . programs. ~,!\_:~ .;These days et:nythiilg i~ :higher.'\ HeleJl Bayly is very !nterested in students inpu.t on the topic. of improvement 'Of scientific curricula and is a strong advocate of the individual's right to act and. r -------~-------------- ...... contribute. If anyone has any . Sophomore Science or Engineering. Dean's U§l students ! qu.estion$ or suggestions, she (an<l ju11ior 2-degree-5 year enginaers)··Apply for the ETHScholar Cl!.n be contacted through RP1 Exchang~ 1 ltlformation meeting a:t Room S-339 (Chemistry/science or a ~roy phone listing. center)·on Thursday, 22 September,tSBS. One (possibly 2) students may Interested in Writing for The Science & Technology Page? For information please contact Anthony Vrondissis Box2242 X4217 be acceptecJ for 1989-90 for a whole year of studies on your owl) at · Europe's .. M.t T. • German is the ranguage, but many have started German in theirwihte.rterm of the sophomore year, and attended in ·the following summer a st~mrner Goethe Institute language school (at their own · · expens~). ar1d subseqi,Jently made out well at the ETH. It is a unique and wonderflll e><perience, with the honor of it in your official records at , Union; There is no tuition to pay here, and a stipend sufficient to cover roam an<l board is given to the exchange. scholar; the only expenses are those of tr~nsportation and, if needed: the Goether Institute course. Cometo the meeting and talk with Bob Stoltz (last year's ElH Exchange Scholat) .andBenedikt 61unschi, the Swiss chap here at Union for this year. C-STEP Seeks Studen}s If you are majoring or intend to major in scie~ce, technology or health, and are a minorii:y or · member o£ a group traditionally underrepresented, you should se:dously consider Union College's Collegiate Science and Technology Pt()gyam CC-STEP}. With employment in these areas expected to grow faster than the average furoqgh the 1990's, C-STEP serVices are desi,gned to increase students' chances of successfully complEting their those field (Science, Math, Engineering) through the following: tutorial assistance, spEcial activities, ca,reet information, faculty advisement, financial support and much more. · David Hayes, Associate Professo:r.\f Chemistry will start the fall seminar series on Tuesday, September 27,4:30 P.M. in Room 5219 in il'le Science and Engineering Building. Topic: Flames and ;Explosions, a lecture and demonstrati()n. Lab size is limited to 15. Ensure a seat with a call to Ms. David, G:STEP Coordinator at Ext. 6404 or visit the office in Bailey Hall~ Room 101. MySummet ·1:n The USA Mandelbrot To Deliver Steinmetz Lecture At Union Colle~e By E.J. CRAIG fraCtltls and fractal geometry, California Institute of on.e <>f the most important · Technology. he has also been By ANDRAS CSER I've spe.n t almost two months here and. :have only ten more days in the O.S .. Now is a .good time tc loo:k back for a moment. ·My name i~ Andras Cser. I am a physi~s student from Eotvos Lora11d University, Budapest. How did 1 get to Union? Professcr Baksay - from the Department of Physics - h~s initiated all exchange pt:ogr.ammer for physics stude111:8 at Union and mu university. that's why together witll .my friend, Karoly Banict we've joined the High Energy .'Pbysics Group for the summer~ At the time two. American stlldents had the oppottuni ty to work in :au.dapest. I don't want to bother the reader with a detailed description or my summer research. Let me Just mention that I*ve made electronics for ,the. big~est putie:le detector ever b~ilt, wltich will be used at the Euro~a11 Center for Nuclear Researc:b (CERN) m Geneva, Switzedlllld. Here are u:m.e of my personal.impressions. it was a . The 56th Steinmetz Lecture really great experience to visit will be delivered by Dr. Benoit a foreign college. I've met a B. Mandelbrot at 8:00 P.M. number of students, it was a Wednesday~ Sept. 28, at the .real pleasure. talking to them. Union · College Memorial Some of them even became my • Chapel. The lecture is free .and friends. I was very surprised to . open to the pu.blic. develoJments in twentieth- honored six times with the cel1tllr)' mathematics. His Doctor of Science degree. concept has crea.ted Mandelbrot's positions prior compllterized shapes a~ to joining IBM were with the comp-licated as the galaxies and National Center for Scientific a familiar as a mountain range. Research (CNRS) in Paris, Frac~ were used in the Star Phillips Electronics, MIT, the run into two electronic Mandelbrot, an IBM engineering students from the . Research Fellow, will speak on . Soviet Union. they told me \Fractals: From Geometry to they will spend the whole year Physics, and on to Art\ The at Union. · ·lecture is sponsored by the I hope that our visit and tbeir Institute ·of Electrical and stay wjU help to create 11 . · Electronic Engineers (IEEE) systematic student excha11ge . and Union College. programme between Union ancl . The program h.9nors the our universities. · · · ·memory of· Charles Proteus . Of course, I didn't work: all Steinmetz and his tile time. With Karoly we : contributions to electrical bottowed a 12 years old Pin:to · engineering, the engineering Wars filru to produce special and travelled through U.S.: 0 profession; and the City of effects Jamdscapes. NYC-Florida-Grand Cany~ll- Schenectady. Steinmetz served Mantdelbrot was born in Chicago-and.back. it was great, . as a member of the Polantl ill 1924. He was we had lots of fun. l 1 Schenectady board of Education educ11ted principally in France, Indeed, i have enjoyed my 1 and initiated many innovative culminatin.g in the Ph.D degree few weeks here very much .. I ; improvements and e~pansion from tile University of Paris, bope and believe that tllis ·' of .th.e school system. altho11glt he also received tow -connection wi1l.stay alive, and J Mandelbrot is the inventor of .. . graduitte degrees . from the more studentS - both American \Percolation theory . and Its: ·Applications\ and Hungarians .. can visit tile Professor Gabor F()i'gacs ()titer's country. this ver1 Department of Physics important in scientific and Clarkson Univers.it)' l:pltutal education. s be 23 1988 ;Finally, thanks to everybodu Date: Friday eptem · · r · , , Place: Steinmetz Hall~ Room 106 who helped .us to spend tbls -r: 3 30 d rful U , tme: : p.m. won e summer at nion. Refreshments will be served at 3:15p.m. institute for Advanced Study, .the University of Geneva, the University of Lille and Ecole Polytechniqu.e. On leave from IBM, he was an Institute Lecturer at MIT; a Visiting Professor at Harvard University, first in Economics, then in Applied Mathematics, and finally in Mathematics; Professor of Engineering at Yale University; Professor of Physiology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine; and Professor of Mathematics at the Universite de Paris-Sud. RESEARCH!!! There is an immediate opportunity for a dedicated student of science or engineering to participate in a project .in the area of electrolysis applied to waste water treatment. Contact Prof. Baksay, Physics, Science and · Engineering Bldllg, Room N327. Ext. 60S3.

Page 10 CONCORJ)IENSIS, September 22, 1988 --'------Founded al Union Co/Jege 1877 ----------- P·roctor's - Great Entertainment.· at Our Doorstep A common complaint heard among Union students is the lack of available off-campus activities. It is, however, an unfounded complaint. Schenectady has more to offer than its proximity to Albany and Saratoga. Schenectady boasts fine restaurants, clubs, museums and a terrific theater. Proctor's Theater, located on State Street, downtown, has in the past offered a variety of entertainment and provided discounts for . students. However, the theater has not been highly patronized, and is now suffering a deficit. This year, The Albany League of Arts is undertaking a new project designed to increase ticket sales in area theaters, in'cluding Proctor's. Half-price, day-of- performance tickets will be available at Proctor's and other local theaters. We urge students and faculty to take advantage of this program. For its 1988-1989 season Proctor's will be hosting 45 djfferent shows with various lengths of stay, including: plays, concerts, dance ensembles, opera, symphony, mime, and stand-up comedians. Proctor's offers an amazing number and variety of critically acclaimed performances, all financially feasible and within walking distance. Do yourself a favor, and check some of them out! To The Freshmen . Welcome to Union College. As the second week of your Union experience closes, Concordiensis would like to offer you, the class of 1992, some advice on the upcoming four years at Union. As with any incoming freshman class, you are unique. Now is the time to start your conqust of the college community and leave a lasting and positive mark on these hallowed halls. Although it might be hard to visualize your graduation in June of 1992, it will inevitably hit you before you understand 'its implications. But your advantage is that you have more time than any other student here at Union to achieve. Achievement is always stemmed in academic success; however, there are numerous other ways. that you can achieve and thereby fulfill the unwritten requirements of a liberal arts experience. Extra-curriculars offer that outlet. Enthusiasm and active participation will get you started in that direction. Activitie~, like Concordien.sis, are always receptive to students who show the .initiative to get involved! The key to maximizing your education is to take advantage of what's offered to you. Concordiensis says do exactly that. It's not too late. It's not too early. It's time. ·LE'TTERS Professor Comments on Faculty Meeting To the Editor: students were more widely read. Counc~l statistics show that of What bothers· me about the the 867 ,private, liberal arts I found the opening faculty remark i$ the inescapable colleges in America, Union meeting on Wednesday, implication that students from ranks 2nd in ·producing September 7 notworthy for the Center I am more inclined to eventual recipients of the Ph.D stem tone of some of the venture out of their c·enter. Can -degree in one of the physical presentations and for a new one demonstrate that with hard sciences and 9th overall for any sense of activism within the data? lt is certianly . the science ot mathematics. Our faculty leadership. President impression of many faculty alumni include a winner of tbe Morris outlined in dear and that, except for the students Nobel Prize; I know of only soibering language the wbo, after some time here,, two other liberal arts colleges budgetary problems with which .switch majors from Center U · that can make a sinilar claim. we have to continue in the near to I (:the net flux being According to data collected by future; Dean Underwood oven¥·helming in th·at the Council and Undergraduate exhorted the faculty to provide direct:ion), such an implied Research Union's Physics greater challenge ·to ·our charge is incorrect. If the ·Department ranked 4th among students and to examine the author of this remakr intended 60 elite private Uber~l arts legitimacy of our grading it as a plea for all of our colleges during a :recent five standards; Chair of the Faculty srudents to be, better rounded, I year period .in total research Tidmarch challenged the think the:re can be no p.roductivity. Union was administration to more fully arguement. To single out aomong the ftrst ten colleges involve the faculty in the Center II students for .their in the nation to be selected to - operation of the institution and special narrowness -- in the participate in the Sloan the faculty t() •more. closely absence of real supporting Foundation's New Liberal Arts unite in a campaign for evidence-- unnecessarily raises Program. We are among a improvement. I applaud the the specter of provincialism, handful of small, private directness of these orations and however. scbools to suc.cessfuUy concuno a great extent in what The second remark which compete for a Hughes Medical , was said. warrants someclairfication was Institute grant {$900,000. and Despite my generally the suggestion that Union no, Williams didn't get one). I positive response to what was ranks \neat the bottom of the could go on, but I won't try the said at this meeting, I feel that top 50.\ I'm sure the read.er's patience further. two remarks made there bear commen\8 ill which this phrase Smugness over past glory is a closer scrutiny. was immersed reflect the foolhardy ·approach to the The first was an assertion frustration I often share that future. Of course we should be that students of Center II are Union isn•t ·mentioned in the struggling to strengthen. our especially disinclined to take same breath as Williams, programs. But let's not. glibly courses outside of their center. Amherst, Carleton, Oberlin, undervalue some ofour honest- Perhaps that claim would stand and Reed in the public media. to-God schievements in our firm when compared to some But what are the actual facts? fevor improvement. absol~ standard; ind~. many -- Unfotunately. I can only speak David Peak of us m Center H do WlSb our-- with some authority for the Bailey PrOfessor - - sciences. National Research and Chair of Physics ~niorsintenested in running, for Senior Representative to the Student Forum •.. Petitions are available in the Student Activities Office. The election for one Senior Representative will be held Friday, Sept. 30, 1988 from 9-4 in the College Center. HOMECOMlNG '88 Al)yone intersted in helping with Homecoming , · Promotional Day and/or the Homecoming,· Parade, come to either or both of these meetings. ·· Promotional Day Meeting Monday. Sepember 26 4:00pm Parade Meeting Wednesday, September 28 4:00pm Both· meetings are in College Center Room 205. ~ Corne experience 0. .... (

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Septernber 22, 1938 <!rllltfllrbirnsis ------Foundul at Union College 1877------ Proctor's - Great Entertainment at Our Doorstep A common complaint heard among Union students is the lack of available off-campus activities. It is, however, an unfounded complaint. Schenectady has more to offer than its proximity to Albany and Saratoga. Schenectady boasts fine restaurants, clubs, museums and a terrific theater. Proctor's Theater, located on State Street, downtown, has in the past offered a variety of entertainment and provided discounts for students. However, the theater has not been highly patronized, and is now suffering a deficit. This year, The Albany League of Arts is undertaking a new project designed to increase ticket sales in area theaters, including Proctor's. Half-price, day-of- performance tickets will be available at Proctor's and other local theaters. We urge students and faculty to take advantage of this program. For its 1988-1989 season Proctor's will be hosting 45 djfferent shows with various lengths of stay, including: plays, concerts, dance ensembles, opera, symphony, mime, and stand-up comedians. Proctor's offers an amazing number and variety of critically acclaimed performances, all financially feasible and within walking distance. Do yourself a favor, and check some of them out! To The Freshnten Welcome to Union College. As the second week of your Union experience closes, Concordiensis would like to offer you, the class of 1992, some advice on the upcoming four years at Union. As with any incoming freshman class, you are unique. Now is the time to start your conqust of the college community and leave a lasting and positive mark on these hallowed halls. Although it might be hard to visualize your graduation in June of 1992, it will inevitably hit you before you understand its implications. But your advantage is that you have more time than any other student here at Union to achieve. Achievement is always stemmed in academic success; however, there are numerous other ways that you can achieve and thereby fulfill the unwritten requirements of a liberal arts experience. Extra-curriculars offer that outlet. Enthusiasm and active participation will get you started in that direction. Activities, like Concordiensis, are always receptive to students who show the initiative to get involved! The key to maximizing your education is to take advantage of what's offered to you. Concordiensis says do exactly that. It's not too late. It's not too early. It's time. ·LETTERS Professor Comments on Faculty Meeting To the Editor: I found the opening faculty meeting on Wednesday, September 7 notworthy for the stem tone of some of the presentations and for a new sense of activism within the faculty leadership. President Morris outlined in cl'ear and soibering language the budgetary problems with which we have to continue in the near future; Dean Underwood exhorted the faculty to provide greater challenge to our students and to examine the legitimacy of our grading standards; Chair of the Faculty Tidmarch challenged the administration to more fully involve the faculty in the operation of the institution and the faculty to mote closely unite in a campaign for improvement. I applaud the directness of these orations and concur to a great extent in what wa~ saki Despite my generally positive response to what was said at this meeting, I feel that two remarks made there bear closer scrutiny. The first was an assertion that students of Center II are especially disinclined to take courses outside of their center. Perhaps that claim would stand firm when compared to some absolute standard; indeed, many of us in Center II do wish our Seniors interested in running for Senior Representative to the Student Forum I I. Petitions are available in the Student Activities Office. The election for one Senior Representative will be held Friday, Sept. 30, 1988 from 9-4 in the College Center. HOMECOMING ·as Anyone intersted in helping with Homecoming Promotional Day and/or the Homecoming Parade, come to either or both of these meetings. Promotional Day Meeting Monday, Sepember 26 4:00pm Parad~ Meeting Wednesday, September 28 4:00pm Both meetings are in College Center Room 205. students were more widely read. What bothers me about the remark is the inescapable implication that students from Center I am more inclined t() venture out of their center. Cm one demonstrate that with hard data? It is certianly the impression of many faculty that, except for ~he students who, after some time here~ switch majors from Center II to I (the net flux being overwhelming in that direction), such an implied charge is incorrect. If the author of this remakr intended it as a plea for all of our students to be better rounded, I think there can be n(} arguement. To single out Center II students for tlleir special narrowness -- in the absence of real supporting evidence -- unnecessarily raises the specter of provincialism, however. The second JJemark which warrants some clairfication was the suggestion that Union ranks \near the bottom of the t()p 50.\ I'm sure the comments in which this pluase was immersed reflect the frustration I often share that Union isn't mentioned in the same breath as Williams., Amherst, Carleton, Oberlin., and Reed in the public media. But what are the actual facts'? Unfotunately, I can only speak with some authority for the sciences. National Researcl! ~ (orne experier.ce Council statistics show that of the 867 private, liberal arts colleges in America, Union ranks 2nd in producing eventual recipients of the Ph.D degree in one of the physical sciences and 9th overall for any science ot mathematics. Our alumni include a winner of the Nobel Prize; I know of only two other liberal arts colleges that can make a sinilar claim. Accordiag to data collected by the Council and Undergraduate Research Union's Physics Department ranked 4th among 60 elite private liberal arts colleges during a recent five year period in total research productivity. Union was aomong the first ten colleges in the nation to be selected to participate in the Sloan Foundation's New Liberal Arts Program. We are among a handful of small, private schools to successfully compete for a Hughes Medical . Institute grant ($900,000 and no, Williams didn't get one). I could go on, but I won't try the reader's patience further. Smugness over past glory is a foolhardy approach to the future. Of course we should be struggling to strengthen_ our programs. But let's not glibly undervalue some of our honest- to-God schievements in our fevor improvement. ()._ .. \ David Peak Bailey Professor and Chair of Physics (

CONCORTJTENSJS, 1988 Page 11 WANT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF_ , AIR FORCE ROTC! Not all colleges and univer- . sities (1('-Er Air Force ROTC If }00 wa'nt the ~dvantages d. Air Force R01'C :and }tlllr SChool cbesn't h~ the program, you still may be able topar,ticipate. Ask about the \cr:osstown\ program '\bu may be able to take Air F'Qil;e ROTC at another college in )Ullr area. Vk have bur- and two-~ program~ that lead to an Air Force commission. '\bu may also apply for a scholarship that pays some college expenses, plus $100 tax free per academ• ic month~ Contact: · CAPT ROBERT KELLER. IV 51 8..;276-6236 7Hf WRl11 NG CENTER OPENS Graduating seniors please note that applications for the 1989 Marshall . Scholarship competition are due on October 15, 1988. The British Marshall scholarsh. ips, funded by the British Government, were The writing Center has opened for its fifth year of service, it was ann.ounced this week by Professor . established m 19 53 as a national: gesture of thanks to the united States Alan Nelson' director of the center. Establishea in for aid Under the Marshall Plan .. Up·. to thirty· college graduates, men · · the fall of l984, the Writing Center is now located on the second floor of Whitaker House, above the and women under 26, are selected annually to work as British Marshall Registrar's office. Scholars for two year·s for further degrees at 45 British Universities in a The Center is h~aded by Prof. Nelson and Mrs. . . . Sandra Longley, and staffed by ten undergraduate wide range of subjects (including the sciences and hnmanities). As the tutors experienced tn helping students and other • • Marshall Committee explains: \~· . . there is no such· thing as a m~mbers of the community with thei:r writing. . .. · 'We were espec:taUy pleased with the work of our stereotypical M'\rshall Scholar. While the Marshall Scholarsh~pS have tutors last year,\ said Prof. Nelson, \and we think a high reputation for intellectual excellence which we wish to retain, we'!e assembled an equally strong group for 1988- - d th th. · th L · ·· B 89. · The tutors this year include four students there has been ten·· ency to assume · · at . ·. IS lS . e SO e Cntena. ·. ecause contfnuifig from last year.: seniors Deborah Byer of the minimum require:d GPA (3.7 or A-), it is, o~ course, assumed and Karen Taylor. andjuniors Carolyn Dunn and th 11 d .. d · h d 11 · h · d · d. · Melissa Bloom. New tutors selected this year at a can. 't • ates · ave · · one very we . tn t .· etr aca emtc stu te.s. include seniors Kirsten Arnhold. and Suzanne (Students with very strong academic records that may fall just short of • Lachelier, Juniors David Adinolfi and Lori Estes · 3.7 are still urged to apply.) Within this fr!:\ffiework; the selection ·. · 1-~t:t~;~omores EliZabeth Berliner and Tamer~ committ~es are looking for additional qualities that distinguish the The Writing Center is open Monday through Marshall Scholars from others. Potent~al Marshall Scholars usually Friday afternoons, 2:00-4:30, and on Sunday , · through Thursday evenings from 7:00-10:00. No . have a wide range of personal interests and achievements, but above all · appointments are necessary. Brief questions can • display a wide sense of adventure, enthusiasm, originality,·· ~be::h::ancll:=::ed~=~·=·:=a::t::Ex:t=:·=:=::-=====! individuality' and a potential for leadership. The committees are particulE.rlY interested in tho·se candidate who a.re likely to make a · practical as wen as a:n intellectual contribution to public life or . international affairs- in the USA whatever their chosen careers, whether . in bu§iness, public service, politi~s, journalism, science, industry, education or academics.\. • For applications and further information contact Prof. Marten, English D~pt. (ext. 6052Y. ··American: Pictures is ••• ,.r S1unning; photographs and a narrative of a Dane•s personal journey through American Culture. Through Jacob Holdt's photos, tales, and . accompanying music, we are given a unique opportunity to see an important insight in to our own culture.' Don•t miss this opportunity!! ··Admission is Free 1 Sponsored by SPAA (Students for Political Awareness and .Action) Septmeber 26, Monday 7:~~ pm CoUege Center luditorium FoUow·~P seminar with Jacob Boldt, the Producers Tuesday 8-11 am 6 q 1)b v: () p, dd & f~JJ:sp(!\5~ ~: !J 6 }J 2:30 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29TH LIBRARY PLAZA -Guess how many water balloons 3 sisters can catch In 1 minute! -Guesses at 5()¢ a piece! .,:....winger gets .. dinner for· 2 at Michele's -All proceeds go to sight conservation and aid to the blind The Social Sciences Statistics Lab is O-pen for business., The lab is equipped with IBM- compatible microcomputers. Software ,i ncl ud·es: Lotu s-1 23, . TSP, SPSS as well as Hermit · for connecting to the V,AX. Hours: 3-11 pm Monday-Thursday 7-11 pm Sunday Consultant on duty at all times.

CONCORDIENSIS, September 22, 1988 Page ll Graduating seniors please note that applications for the 1989 Marshall Scholarship competition are due on October 15, 1988. The British Marshall scholarships, funded by the British Government, were established m 1953 as a national gesture of thanks to the United States for aid under the Marshall Plan. Up to thirty college graduates, men. and women under 26, are selected annually to work as British Marshall Scholars for two years for further degrees at 45 British Universities in a wide range of subjects (including the sciences and humanities). As the Marshall Committee explains: \. . . there is no such thing as a stereotypical Marshall Scholar. While the Marshall Scholarships have a high reputation for intellectual excellence which we wish to retain, there has been tendency to assume that this is the sole criteria. Because of the minimum required GPA (3.7 or A-), it is, of course, assumed that all candidates have done very well in their academic studies. (Students with very strong academic records that may fall just short of 3.7 are still urged to apply.) Within this framework, the selection committees are looking for additional qualities that distinguish the Marshall Scholars from others. Potential Marshall Scholars usually have a wide range of personal interests and achievements, but above all display a wide sense of adventure, enthusiasm, originality, individuality· and a potential for leadership. The committees are particularly interested in those candidate who are likely to make a practical as well as an intellectual contribution to public life or international affairs in the USA whatever their chosen careers, whether in bu~iness, public service, politics, journalism, science, industry, education or academics.\ For applications and further information contact Prof. Marten, English Dept. (ext. 6052). American Pictures is • • • Stunning photographs and a narrative of a Dane's personal journey through American Culture. Through Jacob Heldt's photos, tales, and accompanying music, we are given a unique opportunity to see an important insight in to our own culture. Don't miss this opportunity!! Admission is Free ~ Sponsored by SPAA (Students for Political Awareness and Action) . Septmeber 26, Mond'ay 7:00pm College Center Auditorium Follow-up seminar with Jacob Holdt, the Producer, Tuesday 8-11 am WANT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF AIR FORCE ROTC? Not all colleges and unm- sities offer Air Force HOfC. If }'Qll want the advantages of Air Force ROTC and )Wr school doosn't have the program, you still m~ be able to participate. Ask about the \crosstown\ progmm. You may be able to take Air Force ROTC at another cdlege in )UUr area VVe have four- and t\ID-year programs that lead to an Air Force commission. fuJ may also awfy for a scholarship that pays some college expenses, plus $100 tax free .per academ- ic month. Contact: CAPT HOBERT KELLER. IV 518-276-6236 Leadership E.llrellence Starts Here THE WRITING CENTER. OPENS The writing Center has opened for its fifth year of service, it was announced this week by Professor Alan Nelson, director of the center. Established in the fall of 1984, the Writing Center is now located on the second floor of Whitaker House, above the Registrar's office. The Center is headed by Prof. Nelson and Mrs. Sandra Longley, and staffed by ten undergraduate tutors experienced in helping students and other members of the community with their writing. \We were especially pleased with the work of our tu~ors last year,\ said Prof. Nelson, \and we think weve assembled an equally strong group for 1988- 89.\ The tutors this year include four students continuing from last year: seniors Deborah Byer and Karen Taylor, and juniors Carolyn Dunn and Melissa Bloom. New tutors selected this year include seniors Kirsten Arnhold and Suzanne Lachelier, juniors David Adinolfi and Lori Estes, and sophomores Elizabeth Berliner and Tamera Tibbetts. The Writing Center is open Monday through Friday aftemoons, 2:00-4:30, and on Sunday through Thursday evenings from 7:00-10:00. No appointments are necessary. Brief questions can be handled by telephone, at Ext. 6058. 2:30 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 29TH LIBRARY PLAZA -Guess how many water balloons 3 sisters can catch In 1 minute! -Guesses at 50¢ a piece! -Winger gets, dinner for 2 at Michele's -All proceeds go to sight conservation and aid to the blind The Social Sciences Statistics lab is Open for bus,iness. The lab is equipped with IBM- compatible microcomputers. Software includes: Lotus-123, TSP, SPSS as well as Hermit for connecting to the VAX. Hours: 3-11 pm Monday- Thursday 7-11 pm Sunday Consultant on duty at all times.

I \ ' Page l2 CONCORDIENSIS, Septemb(!r 22, 1988 INTER-NATIONAL - .. .. . . . . . FEAT'URES Papandreou Searches Sovi:et•Am·erlc·an .. ,. - for \Speedy R~covery\ c h:i:t-C·h·at By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS About two weeks ago the \beloved\ Prime minister of Greece, Andreas Papandreou, suddenly entered into a leading \public\ hospital because his heart among other things, was not functioning propedy. In this so called \mid~nightcheck­ up\ it was diagnosed that ;be was \suffering'\ from stenosis of the aorta. Within a days decision the socialist leader decided to seek .medical attention in England rather than in the chootic conditions of the hospitals that hav~ eroded since the implimentation of \socialised Medicine\ in Greece. His discrete departure from the country and his lack .of official responsibiHty to infonn the populace as well as his dynasty of ministers about his condition, created an unacceptable situation of turmoil. Like wretched human beings 'Of a- totalitarian system the populace was to be left uninformed for days, like the people of the Soviet Union in pre-Glasnost eras. Reporters fled by the dozens to England in an, attempt to scavenger Papandreou. And so they did ..• He was taking an afternoon walk with his \companion\ - as he initially called her - Dimitta Liani. \His discrete departure .from the country ••• created an unacceptable situati()li . of tur,..oil\ When asking to make a statem(lnt to the Greek people be replied about the weather and among other things that the y()ung. lady accompanying him was to become the \first Lady No. ·2.\ Though my intentions are not to project a writing style similar to that of the .. National Enquirer,\ I must state that this woman is \ k n o w n '' f o r her ... \ge11erousity.\ She is an air stewardess of Olympic Airways and has exhibited her \generousity\ to almost every pilot other than to the \auto pilot\' The reality, however, of this whole situation, is that while our \dearest\ prime- minister is indulging in his NOTlCE TO WINTER 1989 TERM AB·ROAD STUDENTS . . . $200 deposits to hold and confirm your place in a particular term abroad this winter are due on FRIDAY, ' SEPTEMBER 23, 1988 for Mexico and Greece, and FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7,1988 for Israel. Your check or cash should be paid at .the Cashier's Office in the Administration Building, and the receipt you receive · . should then be brought to the Terms Abroad Office, HU211. Thank you. LANGUAGE TABLES FRENCH-· Monday 12:45-·. 1:45 SPANISH- Tuesday 11:45-. 1~:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN-Wednesday 12:45-1:45 ITALIAN- Thursday 11:45-12:45 JAPANESE-Monday 12:45-1:45 All Language Tables will. be in the College Center Upperclassmen's Dining Hall. Anyone not on t~e f!leal plan can buy lunch downstairs .in the Pub and ~nng it up or \brown-bag\ it. THE NEW lOCI· & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW HOURS: 4-12 EVERYDAY Come visit us at the College Center or Call for free delivery ... 370-6060 $5.00 minimum or a small pizza attempt to rejuvinate himself, political unrest prevails back home. Statistics constantly show that the Socialist party's appea,l h.as decreased tremendously. Critics believe that this facade will serve as a means for Papandreou to · \neatly\ leave the sword for the upcoming elections to another Socialist'for the reason that he has indeed acknowledged that the catastrophic days of Socialism are over. In the mean time the right hand party, led by :k. Mitsotakjs, is pushing for early election since a statement was made yesterday that the prime minister will ,be operated on in approximately two weeks. However antiethical one might be toward this present era ·Of Papandreou Socialism,. the Madame of the bordello of Greek politics, as I like to call it concern and ';compassion\ does arise. It indeed would ,be cruel and inhumane to desire a fatal consequence ... but not a \fatal attraction.\ What a guy ... 69 years old and going strong~ By Michael Greenberg attd A.vto Gigineisbvili . USSR? Oll yea, what ltind ·of music do you like? You've heard of Led Zeppelin, but prefer Seoul, Korea. the Summer· Simon and Garfunkel!Y I didn't · Games. Patties. Inte:m.ati.onal know that Soviets listen to competion. Parties. World American music. Baclc in records. Parties. Hey ... Los America, mmm ... well, I don't , Angeles .is a nice place, but Ulink too many people are VP wouldn't you rathe:r go to Korea . OU'' Soviet sounds~ Bot, hey, than to Califomia? . with Perestroika, you' never \Let's de Se<>ol, g1.1ys! Yea .• I .know! Well, we have ·a team know we're here ·to run -the meeting at twelve, so I'll see fastest, throw the farthest,. swim you around~ What did you say? · the quickest, punch the hardest. 'P~?'Oh, goodbye. Paka. - and sink the. most~ but, come Hey, ·what's up? Oh, you on, whenyou're.·halfway around don't understand? 1 asked, How . the wQrld, you should take in ~· are you? Yea, it was nice . much as you can. Besides, don't talking with you last night. you think we've practiced . Those . are nice shoes. · enough\ Let's hit the bars!\ Hey .. ~those are N~es! I. thought I'll~e a Budweiser~.and you? Soviets wore Soviet made Doesn't that have vodka in it? sh~s. Guess Nikes are popular 'Wait, I'll have what s~e's allovertheworld. Wbatdidyou having, say? Really ... everyorte in the Nice bar, eh? How do you Soviet UD;ion says it like Mike? . like Seoul? Yea, I think it's Hey ... tbat's funny. It;s not Nike · · pretty coot Where are you as in Mike, it~s Nike as in · . from? The Soviet ·union! So, hockey. By the way, do you .• what is your event? Gymnastics. remember when the United is not bad~ I play on the United States beat Ute Evil Empite -I States Volleyball Team. Ate we mean, Soviet,s in hockey in , good? Of course! 19801 Lucky'! No .. I don't think So how's life .. back in the so. INTERNATIONAL ISSUE By AIME SIMON Who. do you feel will win the US presidential elections and who do you favor? Why? A vto G~ghaeishvili - (Soviet Union, Georgia) - G~rge Bush: I think ~hat he, would ·get more votes because people believe that he has more expenence. lie !'as the vtce president und~ Ronald Reagan. ;Reagan has showed himself to be.a goo.d prest~ent. He ht!S made certam improvements in the economy as well as advancements m foreign relations ~the Reagan ~orbachev summit and nuClear arms talks). There are not too many people agamst the pohcy of the Republicans. _ . An thee Carassavas - (Greece) - If the presidential nee attains the character of a co~petiti?n' . between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party then I believe that the RepubltciD;ls wtll win. If on the other hand it evolves intO a struggle between the f1.gutes of Bush and Dukakis then Dukakis will wiri. Daniel Elkeslassy(Morocco) . I think that Al11ericans are tired of the Reagan administratiqn after eight years of presidency: I feel that B~sh is a little f?O clos~ .W. Reagan to be elec!ed~ On ~e other hand, Oukakis gives .the tmage of a qw.et bard-working pollti<?tan who w~ts ~o gtve back to the states all its glory. Being mere liberal than conservative, I bQpe that Dukakis wtll be elected. Lorraine' Jar-vis (England) .. Dnk~s: Due to the image projected by Bush and his inadequacies both as a presidential candidate and dUring his period as vice president I would prefer it if Dukakis would win. However, I really don't consider that there is a choice. Both candidates lack something essentially needed to. be president and Dukakis appears in my opinion to be the lesser of two evilS. '· - - - s ( ~ s .t t ~l . i 1 ( ~ i 1 l . ( ~ f i l I ] t ( . ]

· Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, September 21, 1988 INTERNATIONAL Ff~A'\fURES Papandreou Searches Soviet-American Chit-Chat d R '' for \Spee y · ecovery By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS About two weeks ago the \beloved\ Prime minister of Greece, Andreas Papandreou, suddenly entered into a leading \public\ hospital because his heart among other things, was not functioning properly. In this so called \mid-night check- up\ it was diagnosed that he was \suffering\ from stenosis of the aorta. Within a days decision the socialist leader decided to seek medical attention in England mther than in the chaotic conditions of tbe hospitals that have eroded since the implimentation of \socialised Medicine\ in Greece. His discrete departure from the country and his lack of official responsibility to infoirn the populace as well as his dynasty of ministers about his condition, created an unacceptable situation of turmoil. Like wretched human beings of a· totalitarian system the populace was to be left uninformed for days, like the people of the Soviet Union in pre-Glasnost eras. Reporters fled by the dozens to England in an attempt to scavenger Papandreou. And so they did ... He was taking an afternoon walk with his \companion\ - as he initial,ly called her - Dimitra Liani. \His discrete departure from the country •.• created an unacceptable situation of turJDoil\ When asking to make a statement to the Greek poople he replied about the weather and among other things that the young lady accompanying him was to become the \first Lady No. 2. II Though my intentions are not to project a writing style similar to that of the \National Enquirer,\ I must state that this woman is \ k n o w n 11 f o r her ... \generousity.\ She is an air stewardess of Olympic Airways and has exhibited her \generousity\ to almost every pilot other than to the \auto pilot.\ The reality, however, of this whole situation, is that while our \dearest\ prime- minister is indulging in his NOTICE TO WINTER 1989 TERM ABROAD STUDENTS $200 deposits to hold and confirm your place in a particular term abroad this winter are due on FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1988 for Mexico and Greece, and FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7,1988 for Israel. Your check or cash should be paid at the Cashier's Office in the Administration Building, and the receipt you receive should then be brought to the Terms Abroad Office, HU211. Thank you. LANGUAGE TABLES FRENCH-Monday 12:45- 1 :45 SPAN ISH- Tuesday \11 :45-12:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN- Wednesday 12:45-1 :45 ITALIAN- Thursday 11 :45-12:45 JAPANESE-Monday 12:45-1:45 Ail Language Tables will be in the College Center Upperclassmen's Dining Hall. Anyone not on the ~eal plan can buy lunch downstairs in the Pub and bring it up or \brown-bag\ it. THE NEW ROCK & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW HOURS: 4-12 EVERYDAY Come visit us at the College Center or Call for free delivery ... 370-6060 $5.00 minimum or a small pizza attempt to rej.uvinate himself, political unrest prevails back home. Statistics constantly show that the Socialist party's appeal bas decreased, tFememdously. Critics beliieve that tltis facade will serve as a means for Papandreou to \neatly\ leave the sword for the upcoming elections to another Socialist for the reason that he has indeed acknowledged that the catastrophic days of Socialism are over. In the mean time the right band party, led by K. Mitsotakis, is pushing for early election since a statement was made yesterday that t:be prime minister will be operated on in applioximatel y two weeks. However antiethical one might be toward tllis present era of Papandreou Socialism, the Madame of the bordello of Greek politics, as I like to call it C(;)ncern and \compassion\ does arise. It indeed wmlld be cruel and inhumane w desire a fatal consequence ... but not a \fatal attraction.\ What a guy .•. 69 years old and going stro11g. By Michael Greenberg and A vto GigineishviU Seoul, Korea The Summer Games. Parties. International competion. Parties. World records. Parties. Hey ... Los Angeies is a nice place, but wouldn't you rather go to Korea than to California? \Let's do Seoul, guys! Yea, I know we're here to run the fastest, throw the farthest, swim the quickest, punch the hardest, and sink the most; but, come on, when you're half way around the world, you should take in as . much as you can. Besides. don't you think we've practiced enough\ Let's hit the bars!\ I'll take a Budweiser .. and you? Doesn't that have vodka in it? Wait, I'll have what she's having. Nice bar, eh? How do you like Seoul? Yea, I think it's pretty cool. Where are you from? The Soviet Union! So, what is your event? Gymnastics is not bad. I play on the United States Volleyball Team. Are we good? Of course! So how's life back in the USSR? Oh yea, what kind of music do you like? You've heard of Led Zeppelin, but prefer Simon and Garfunkel!? I didn't know that Soviets listen to American music. Back in America, mmm ... well, I don't think too maHy people are up on Soviet sounds. But, hey, with Perestroika, you never know! Well, we have a team meeting at twelve, so I'll see you around. What did you say? 'Paka?' Oh, goodbye. Paka. Hey, what's up? Oh, you don't understand? I asked, How are you? Yea, it was nice talking whh you last night. Those are nice shoes. Hey ... those are Nikes! I thought Soviets wore Soviet made shoes. Guess Nikes are popular aU over the world. What did you say? Really ... everyone in the Soviet Union says it like Mike? Hey ... that's funny. It's not Nike as in Mike, it's Nike as in hockey. By the way, do you remember when the United States beat the Evil Empire- I mean, Soviets in hockey in 1980? Lucky? No . .l don't think so. INTERNATIONAL ISSUE By AIME SIMON Who do you feel will win the US presidential elections and who do y()u favor? Why1 A vto Gigimeishvili - (Soviet Union, Georgia) - Ge~rge Bush: 1 think ~hat he. would get more votes because people believe that he has more expenence. He _was the vtce prestdent und~r Ronald Reagan. Reagan has showed himself to be . a goo~ prest~ent. He has made certam improvements in the economy as well as advancements m fore1gn relations (the Reagan Gorbachev summit and n.uclear arms talks). There are not too many people against the policy of the Republicans. Anthee Carassa-vas- (Greece)- If the presidential race attains ~e character of a co~petiti~n between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party then I believe that the Repubhc~s wtll win. If on the other hand it evolves into a struggle between the figures of Bush and Dukakts then Dukakis will win. Daniel Elleslass)'(Morocco)- I think that Americans are tired of the Reagan administration after eight years of presidency. I feel that B~sh is a little~ clos~ -~Reagan to be elec~. On the other hand, Dukakis gives the image of a qu~et hard-wor~ng pohtictan who wa_nts ~o gtve back to the states all its glory. Being more liberal than conservative, I hope that Dukakls wtll be elected. Lorraine Jarvis (England) - Dukakis: Due to the image projected by Bush and his inadequacies both as a presidential candidate and during his period as vice president I would prefer it if Dukakis would win. However, I really don't consider that there is a choice. Both candidates lack sometbin.g essentially needed to be president and Dukakis appears in my opinjon to be the lesser of two evils. ' ' j - 1 1 J

' l l l .. \ s r s e CQNCQRDIENSIS, S~ptemb~r 22, 1988. Page 13 INTERNATIONAL Portrait of th·e Week: A vtO Gi_gineishvili -~ By NICOLAS BOCH There are about fifty Soviet swdents in all America. Two of them currently are enrolled · at Union College and will be staying ·in the country for less .thafl· a year. It is only recently 1hat students from the Soviet ~Union have become allowed to study at American colleges, and - if is tlte first time that Union hosts .some of them. . Avto Gigineishvili is one of our two Sov_iet eX:change students. Avto learned English in the most unusual way. At 15, after having spent 6 years learning the language in high : school, he left his teacher and statted to improve his English all by himself. He translated the \Encyclopedia of Rock\ into Russian from cover to Cover. As well, his love of American and English music brought him to translate .most of the songs of the greatest rockstars .. Among them, Pink Floyd, Genesis, Led. Zeppelin, Velvet UndergrQ\Ufld and Jimi :Hendrix are his favorites~ Most sutprising is tb.at all these records are av-ailable in the Soviet Union. . Avto 'is not Russian but Georgian .. Russia and Georgia are two distinct republics of the Soviet Union. He studied electrical engineering at the Georgian Polytechnical Institute. He loves to play soccer and admires Union for ~· its· great. sport facilities. !±! WRUC is his most beloved ~ p-lace on campus and he might ~ well hav~ his own show very ~­ soon. He had never seen such a I great collectimr of records before. He enjoys social life at U11ion very ntuch. He feels· that people know each other very welt Fraternity parties are -different than what he is used to at home. _ ;ny the way horne must seem really far away for him. He is 21 years ald and has been married for almost a year. By chance he gets to speak: to his . w'ife once a week with 9 hours of diff~nce between them. - .-,:;::.j' . Need'S of · lntefnational Students Addressed By AIME SIMON A special International student orientation was . organized, as a sign of .the growing administrative concern for the social and academic integration of the international student mto the mainstream of Union campus life. The program was spearheaded by Kevin Irland who had Proposed the idea to the orientation ·committee in April. Kevin - participated in the Union tetm abroad to Japan las~ year and was deeply effected by the experience. He acknowledg~ ~t s~ying in a foreign land involves certain adjustment problems. And he felt that his . individualistic orientation was extremely helpful in allowing him to effectively meet the challenge of confronting a new culture. Upon returning, he began to question the absence of such a system of support services at Union. Working closely with Professor Thomas from the Terms Abroad office, Kevin Irland made the necessity a reality. · The first international student session took place on Sunday September 4th in the Milano lounge. At this rneyting the foreign students met their \buddies\. Buddies are Union co-eds who have gone- on a term abroad and went through a special training in order to aid in the adjustment of the newcomers to college life in America. Two irttemational students were assigned to each ·~buddy' who~ role included giving a tour of the campus, help in choosing classes and getting settled in the dormitory, as well as being a general informational resource, and .most importantly a friend to be counted on in an \alien\ environment. During the next t;bree aays, sessions were held to address such issues as fiUing out immigration papers, setting up bank accou!lts and registering for classes. On Tuesday evening the International Student Union spc:msored a reception to give everyone a c'hance to - meet the international 'students. Amidst the cheese and Perrier, many profvssors, freshmen, and ISU stu,dents ex.changed introductions and ideas. - Kevin Irlartd's committee plans to continue the international focus on campus throughout _the year by sponsoring lect\Jl'eS, films, lLJncheons and discussion groups, and by working closely with ISU and International House on promoting cross cultural exchange and through arranging field trips for the foreign students. The administration has ~eemingly increased its rec()gnition of the importance of international students by appointing Dea11 Alford as international student advisor. Dean Alford has a good background in the field as in the pas~ he has set up summer programs for high school students abroad - friendship camps - and was instrumental in establishing one of 'the first exchanges in Cllina in 1980 when the open d()Or policy was initiated. Dean Alford views himself in the positiop of an integrater of various services for international students bringing together disparat~ programs to a celtter, including !he directorship ()f budgetary 1ssues. Characterizing Write For International Features Call X6884 international students as role models and the educational opportunities at the college. Since i~ is his ftrst year in this capacity, Dean Alford intends to listen to the students themselves to detennine what further steps should be taken · by sitting at the international table on Fridays at 12:45 in the college center, attending ISU meetings, and through informal dining room conversation. This year Union bas a new addition to ,the international community - two Russian undergradnate exchange students. Union was chosen by the President of Middleburry -college as one -of the small liberal arts colleges to participate in the exchange. The exchange is special in that .the Russians are unaccompanied and are given the freedom of regular Union students. ISU TABLE Friday 12:30 to 1:30. Akir.a Kurosawa's RASH OM ON will be shown on September 27 at the Main Albany Public Library-161 Washin.gton Ave., Albany ./This Week lnTheWotld By NICOLAS BOCH Source: The Wall Stteet Journal (09/13-09/19) Lebanon: Shiite .Moslem kidnappers freed a West German hostage in Beirut after declaring that they were ending the 55- year-old businessman's 20 months in captivity in response to- Syrian and Iranian intervention. Separately, an American engineer who was abducted in Lebanon escaped from his captors with the aid of Syrian troops. B angladesb: President Ershad appealed >for additonal foreign aid to feed more than 30 million people left homeless -by floods, and doctors tried to halt an epidemic of diarrhea caused by tainted drinldng water. South Africa: Three prominent apartheid foes fled a Johannesburg ho.spital and took refuge at the U.S. consulate. An embassy official said the U.S. wouldn't force them to leave against their will. South Korea: Students hurled firebombs at runners carrying the Olympic torch, and police said at least 16 troopers fighting to disperse the protesters were injured. Israel: Prime Min1ster Shamir ended talks with officials in Budapest and Said Hungary had agreed to renew full diplomatic ties with Israel after a 21•year break. The two-day visit by Shamir was the ftrst to an East European nation by an Israeli premier. Burma: A military group described as supporting former leader Ne Win ousted Bunna's civilian president, and thousands of citizens armed with homemade · weapons poured into Rangoon's streets to reject the regime, tile fourth in two months. Haiti: A former aide to Duvalier declared himself president -of Haiti after a coup by military officers overthrew the government of Lt, Gen. Henry Namphy. The ousted leader was sent to the neighboring Dominican Republic, which granted him asylum. ISU MEETING TONIGHT 8:00 ·PM 2nd floor \'Vebster House BETHER61 GERMAN FILM SERIES BEGINS MONDAY SEPT. 26 AT 7:30PM IN tHE COLLEGE CENTER RM. 406 . Sept. 26-- MARIA MORZECK {1976) Maria Morzeck. is a coy and progressive young girl in East Berlin. Her brother's involvement in ,broadcasting a taped Adenauer speech on a factory's announcement system results in his conviction, a 4-year prison. term and Naria's prohibition to attend university. As a waitress she meets Paul Dreister, married and the judge who had sentence<! her brother. He admires her and even though she inwardly despises him she plays albng in hopes of obtaining a reduced prison term for her brother. Producer: Forst Flick.

' l l 1 1 t1 e 0 s :r lS lC CONCORDIENSIS, September 22, 1988 Page 13 INTERNATIONAL Portrait of the Week: A vto Gigineishvili ~ z By NICOLAS BOCH There are about fifty Soviet students in all America. Two of them currently are enrolled at Union College and will be staying in the country for less than a year. It is only recently that students from the Soviet . Union have become allowed to study at American colleges, and it is the first time that Union hosts some of them. A vto Gigineishvili is one of our two Soviet exchange students. Avto learned English in the most unusual way. At 15, after having spent 6 years learning the language in high school, he left his teacher and started to improve his English aH by himself. He translated the \Encyclopedia of Rock\ into Russian from cover to cover. As well, his love of American and English music brought him to translate most of the songs of the greatest rockstars. Among them, Pink Floyd, Genesis, Led Zeppelin, Velvet Underground and Jimi Hendrix are his favorites. Most surprising is that all these records are available in the Soviet Union. Avto is not Russian but Georgian. Russia and Georgia are two distinct republics .of the Soviet Union. He studied electrical engineering at the Georgian Polytechnical Institute. He loves to play soccer and ad.nrires Union for its great sport facilities. !=! WRUC is his most beloved ~ place on campus and he might fa well have his own show very ~ soon. He had never seen such a ~ great collection of records before. He enjoys social life at Union very much. He feels that people know each other very welL Fraternity parties are .different than what he is used to at home. By the way home must seem really far away for him. He is 21 years old and has been married for almost a year. By chance he gets to speak to his wife once a week with 9 hours of difference between them. Needs of International Students Addressed By AIME SIMON A special In-ternational student orientation was organized, as a sign of the growing administrative concern for the social and academic integration of the international student into the mainstream of Union campus life. The program was spearheaded by Kevin Irland who had proposed the idea to the orientation committee in April. Kevin participated in the Union term abroad to Japan last year and was deeply effected by the experience. He acknowledged that studying in a foreign land involves certain adjustment problems. And he felt that his individualistic orientation was extremely helpful in allowing him to effectively meet the challenge of confronting a new culture. Upon returning, he began to question the absence of such a system of support services at Union Working closely with Professor Thomas from the Terms Abroad office, Kevin Irland made the necessity a reality. The first international student session took place on Sunday September 4th in the Milano lounge. At this meeting the foreign students met their \buddies\. Buddies are Union co-eds who have gone on a term abroad and went through a special training in order to aid in the adjustment of the newcomers to college life in America. Two international students were assigned to each \buddy' whose role included giving a tour of the campus, help in choosing classes and getting settled in the dormitory. as well as being a general informational resource, and most importantly a friend to be counted on in an \alien\ environment. During the next three aays, sessions were held to address such issues as filling out immigration papers, setting up bank accounts and registering for classes. On Tuesday evening the International Student Union sponsored a reception to give everyone a chance to meet the international students. Amidst the cheese and Perrier, many professors, freshmen, and ISU students exchanged introductions and ideas. · Kevin Irland's committee plans to continue the international focus on campus throughout the year by sponsoring lectures, films, luncheons and discussion groups, and by working closely with ISU and International House on promoting cross cultural exchange and through arranging field trips for the foreign students. The administration has seemingly increased its recognition of the importance of international students by appointing Dean Alford as international student advisor. Dean Alford has a good background in the field as in the past he has set up summer programs for high school students abroad - friendship camps - and was instrumental in establishing one of the ftrst exchanges in China in 1980 when the open door policy was initiated. Dean Alford views himself in the position of an integrater of various services for international students, bringing together disparate programs to a center, including the directorship of budgetary issues. Characterizing Write For International Features Call X6834 international students as role models and the educational opportunities at the college. Since it is his first year in this capacity, Dean Alford intends to listen to the students themselves to determine what further steps should be taken by sitting at the international table on Fridays at 12:45 in the college center, attending ISU meetings, and through informal dining room conversation. This year Union has a new addition to the international community - two Russian undergraduate exchange students. Union was chosen by the President of Middleburry college as one of the small liberal arts colleges to participate in the exchange. The exchange is special in that .the Russians are unaccompanied and are given the freedom of regular Union students. ISU TABLE Friday 12:30 to 1:30. Akira Kurosawa's RASHOMON will be shown on September 27 at the Main Albany Public Library-161 Washington Ave., Albany Thi·sWeek l:n The World By NICOLAS BOCH Source: The Wall Street Journal (09/13-09/19) Lebanon: Shiite Moslem kidnappers freed a West German hostage in Beirut after declaring that they were ending the 55- year-old businessman's 20 months in captivity in resJJGnse to Syrian and Iranian intervention. Separately, an American engineer who was abducted in Lebanon escaped from his captors with the aid of Syrian troops. Bangladesh: President Ershad appealed for additonal foreign aid to feed more than 30 million people left homeless by floods, and doctors tried to halt an epidemic of diarrhea caused by tainted drinking water. South Africa: Three prominent apartheid foes ned a Johannesburg hospital and took refuge at the U.S. co11sulate. An embassy official said the U.S. wouldn't force them to leave against their will. South Korea: Students hurled firebombs at runners carrying the Olympic torch, and police said at least 16 troopers fighting to disperse the protesters were injured. Israel: Prime Minister Sharnir ended talks with officials in Budapest and said Hungary had agreed to renew full diplomatic ties with Israel after a 21·year break. The two-day visit by Shamir was the first to an East European nation by an Israeli premier. Burma: A military group described as supportin~ former leader Ne Win ousted Butma's civilian president, and th<lusands of citizens armed with homemade weapons poured into Rangoon's streets to reject the regime, the fourth in two months. Haiti: A former aide to Duvalier declared himself president of Haiti after a coup by military officers overtllrew the government ofLt, Gen. Henry Namphy. The ousted learler was sent to the neighboring Dominican Republic, which granted him asylum. ISU MEETING TONIGHT 8:00PM 2nd floor Vlebster House BE THERE! GERMAN FILM SERIES BEGINS MONDAY SEPT. 26 AT 7:30 PM IN THE COLLEGE CENTER RM. 406 Sept. 26- MARIA MORZECK (1976) Maria Morzeck is a coy and progressive young girl in East Berlin. Her brother's involvement in _broadcasting a taped Adenauer speech on a factory's announcement system results in his conviction, a 4-year prison term and Maria's prohibition to attend university. As a waitress she meets Pau I Dreister, married and the judge Who had sentenced her l>rcther. He admires her and even though she inwardly despises him she plays along in hopes of obtaining a reduced prisont~rm for her brother. Producer: Forst Flick. \ - \ ..

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Se11te.m.ber 22, 1988 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT American :Pictures Is ••• By JANE HACKETT and DERBJE LUCEY America,n Pictures is a look into American culture. It is a journey through our own country as seen through the eyes of a foreigner. Jacob Holdt, a native of Denmark, spent five years during the 1970s traveling throughout the country. Hitchhiking from one state to the next, selling blood plasma for film, and living with all types of people ranging from heroin addicts to the affluent Rock;efellers, Holdt photographed some of the nation's wealthiest and poorest people. The product of Holdt's journey and photographs is a . narrated slide show set to music that shows American culture in a sensational way. It is a rare opportunity to see such a comprehensive and powerful picture of our own culture. American Pictures provides valuable insight into life in America. lllllla, 89.7 im STEREO • •Ttl£ FIRST STATION IN THE ·NATION\ No. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. NEW 8.97 It's back!! The only countdown in America that has both Scott Shannon and Shadoe Stevens saying, \But l've<never heard of these artists \ These are the 8.97 most frequently played new albums on the WRUC turntables during the first week of broadcasting. Artist Sugarcubes · Soundtrack Primitives Big Audio Dynamite Sit>uxsie & The Banshees Billy Bragg 12\ Title Life!s Too Great Married to the Mob Lovely Tighten Up Vol. 88 PeepShow \Waiting fof the Great Leap. Forward\ Lable Elektra Reprise RCA Columbia Geffen Elektra 7. Ramones Mania Sire 8. Feelies Only Ute A&M 8.97 Drivin & Cryin Scared But Smarter fsland Top Adds: Tow Wait, Oingo Boingo, Billy Bragg. WRUC is back on a full time schedule from 7 AMN 2 AM. The NEW' 8.97 can be heard each Tuesday night at 9:30 p.m. Jacob Holdt has lleell' to~ng the country with Acmerican Pic·tures for ovel' six years. The show is higlll)' acclaimed for its stunning ph()tog:raphy and eye opening tllernes.. It has · been shown at lll<lllJ c<>lleges including Harv:ard, Yale, Princeton, Williams, Georgetown, and 1(;2 others. Due to overwhelming student and faculty res·:pollse the presentation has vftell been brought back fo.- repeated showings. UniversJty <>f CA, B.A.D. Blows Up In '88 Let's Active: Beware of Dog By JOHN S. MORGAN Where music is concerned, good, bad and in between are as subjective as Whitney Houston is predictable. Albums are rarely accepted on their own terms: Combat Rock is a · good record, but Never Mind t h e B u II o c k s is unquestionably a better one. In this vein, summer releases by Big Audio Dynamite and Camp Union performer Let's Active will herein be categorized as \disappointments.\ Joe Strummer fired Mick Jones from The Clash in 1983 and continued on with a band that was The Clash in name only. Jones started Big Audio Dynamite (B.A.D.) and the \New Clash\ picked up where London CaiHng left off. The music of B.A.D. has a mainstream taste with a rock solid edge and a flourish of be- bop-rap-reggae, Jones growls and plays guitar in a five piece band that includes two Rastafarians. This is Big Audio Dynam.ite proved to be an impressive debut effort, jumping off turntables bigger than life. Reports that Jones was still bitter towards Strummer were quelled when Joe imd Mick collaborated on several songs for B.A.D.'s second record, No. 10, Upping St., which Strummer produced in 1986. Former Clash bassist Paul Simonon, who stayed on with Strun1lller in tile perversion of The Clash, .contributes a fabulously striking cover painting to Tighten Up Vol. '88 - leaving Topper Headon as the only original Clash member who has not participated in Big Audio Dynamite in one form or another. Big Audio Dynamite is not a band of angry young punks, but there is plenty of energy in \Rock Non Stop (All Night Long)/' \Champagne\ and most notably \Mr. Walker Said.\ These are the highlights from a, 12 track record that Jacks the consistency of direction that This is ••• displayed. Of the artists mentioned above, B.A.D. distinguished themselves the most this summer, but Tighten Up ••• delivers few tracks that stand up to repeated listening. ., Mitch Easter is many things in the world of rock music, and, in effect, he is the band Let's Active. Easter is a producer of almost legendary proportion; his credits include R.E.M.'s first three records~ numerous Game Theory albums, The Connells' 1ast effort and \Luka\ by Suzanne Vega. When there is time in his busy sc~edule, he enters his \Drive-In Studio\ with the most recent incarnation ofLet's Active and cuts an album. Prior to Every . Dog Has His Day, each of these occasions were noteworthy - particularly Big Plans for Everybody. Easter readily admits his infatuation with the music of Led Zeppelin, and the feelin~ is mutual. In an interview this spring, Robert Plant commented that hce would \rather mow Mit<;h Easter's lawn than sing like Steve Perry (of Journey).\ Rather unfortunately, tbi£ leaves one with the , impreuiol! that everything -from F:vEry Dog ••• is a derivative of a previous decade. Standing out fr<>m the other 12 songs .h '\I Feel Funny,'\ which is ac<:ellted in a lively way - thouglt the guitar progressions are si.mpl~, it is the only track on ~lticlt what Easter assemb-led t() be a \rockin' band\ is a!l()wed to kick it out. Let's Active has always featured Easter's current girlfriend; Faye Hurtter was the band's original bassist ltlld now Angie Carlson plays keyboards and guitar. Unfortu11ately, she sings too - her vo~;als orr Horizon bring the :m:alaise of The Motels to mind. \Sweepstakes W:i1111e1'' would have fit into Big Pl~ns ••• , . and it might have ~een more effective there- i11a.time when Let's Active was a ccllectiqn of bit players assembled about. Mitch Easter's musical and production ta:Ients. ENDORSED (SUMMER) \VIN\'L: UB 40: UB40 RAM ONES: RAMONESMANlA THE FEELIES: ()NLY LIFE THE PRIMITIVES: LOVELY NEXT WEEK BULYBR.AOO MICHELLE SHOCKED Berkeley bas shown it 17 ti11,1es since it beg an , tottring . At Dartmouth College all freshmen are required to see if. SP AA, Students for Political Awarelless and Action, is sp.Qnsorin.g Am:e:rica:n Pictures, Monday, Sept. 26 at 7:00 ,p.m. in the College Center Au.4itorium. A~ssion iS' free, There will be a follow- up seminar cqnducted by Anurican Pict u.r,e 's Pf()Clutce:r,. Jaceb Holdt; the · seminar wil~ be held in the College Center Au.ditorium from 8:30a.m·. to 11:00 a.m., Sept. 27 for discussion. and quesHons · with tb.e photographer himself. Due to the co,mprehensiveness and value of A m e r i c a n Pictu,res.t many div·ers.e organizations and departments of Union· College ,have aided SP AA in bringing Union students and faculty the opportunity to see and feel Orchestra The conductor of the Union College (~hamber Orchestra,. Hilary Tann, reports 11tat the orchestra is looking g()Od this fall. So _good, in fact, that she is cha11gi11g the repert<lry to include .a complete performance of Beethoven's Fourth Symphony. As usu.al, the concert will be the tllird weeke11d of Winter Term. Rehearsals are held 7:0()-9:00 each Tlursday in Mem01ial Chapel. All are welc()me to try out a. few rehearsals before deciding to stay for the concert. Practic11rn courSe creditis 110w available; details may be obtained from Ann Tll()mast AB 214. If you've been hesitating about joining, now's the time. lf you haven't brought your instrument, the Arts Department will probably be able to loan you one. It's a great experience to play music 1i ve. Think about it. Any questions? -.. contact Hilary Tann, AB 320 .. CROSSGATESMALL CINEMA Fri. It Sat. Only ROGER RABBIT PG 12:50 3:25 7:05 9:45 12:50,3:25 7:05,9i45 11:55 YOUNG GUNS R 1:4.0 4:25 7:25 10:1()- 1:40,4:25 7:25, 10:10 12:50 NIGI:rTWARE ON ElM ST.'IV R 12:30 3:00 5:05 7:50 10:35 12:30;3:00 5:05, 7;50 10:35, 12:30 DEAD RINGER R 1:30 4:45 7:35 10:20 1:50,4:45 7:35,10:20 ·12:35 BETRAYED R 1:25 4:15 7:10 tO:OS 1:25,4:15 7:10,10:05 12:35 A FISJ-! cALLED WANDA R 2::00 4:55 7:4~ 10:30 2:00,4:55 7:45,10:30 12:40 PAm HEARST R 1 ;3() 4:35 7:20 9!55 1:30,4:35 7:20,9:55 12:00 COCKTAIL R 1:2() 4:05 6:35 9!00 1:30,4:35 6:35,9:00 11:15 MooNOIJER 1:10,3:45 PARb.DOR PG13 ·1:00 3:45 6:45 9:20 6:45,9:20 11:30 KANSAS R 1:,10 3:55 6:55 9:30 1!10, 3:55 6:55,9:30 11:40 DIEHARD R 1~:2() 3:10 6:15 9:1.0 12:20, a:to ·, 6:15,9:10 11:45 BIG PG 1:2!$ 3:20 6:20 8:50 12:35,3:20 6:20,8:50 11:10 --

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, September 22, 1988 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT A,merican By JANE HACKETT and DEBBIE LUCEY Amedcan Pictures is a look into American culture. It is a joumey through our own country as seen through the eyes of a foreigner. Jacob Holdt, a native of Denmark, spent five years during the 1970s traveling throughout the country. Hitchh1king from one state to the next, selling blood plasma for film, and living with all types of people ranging from heroin addicts to Pictures the affluent Rockefellers, Holdt photographed some of the nation's wealthiest and poorest people. Tbe product of Heldt's journey and photographs is a narrated slide show set to music that shows American culture in a sensational way. It is a rare opportunity to see such a comprehensive and powerful picture ·Of our own culture. American Pictures provides valuable insight into life in America. WRUC - PLA YLIST No. 1.. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 89,7 fm STEREO • •THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ NEW 8.97 It's back!! The only countdown in America that has both Scott Shannon and Shadoe Stevens saying, \But I've never heard of these artists \ These are the 8.97 most frequently played new albums on the WRUC turntables during the first week of broadcasting. Artist Sugarcubes Soundtrack Primitives Big Audio Dynamite Siouxsie & The Banshees Billy Bragg 12\ Title Life's Too Great Married to the Mob Lovely Tighten Up Vol. 88 Peep Show Lab!e Elektra Reprise RCA Columbia Geffen Elektra 7. Ramones \Waiting for the Great Leap Forward\ Mania Sire A&M fsland 8. r-:eelies 8.97 Drivin & Cryin Top Adds: Tow Bragg. Only Life Scared But Smarter Wait, Oing.o Boingo, Billy WR UC is back on a full time schedule from 7 AM~ 2 AM. The NEW' 8.97 can be heard each Tuesday night at 9:30p.m. Is ••• Jacob Holdt has been touring the country with American Pictures for over six years. The show is high:ly acclaimed for its stunning photography and eye opening themes. It has been shown at many colleges including Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Williams, Georgetown, and 162 others. Due to overwhelming student and faculty response the presentation has often been brought back for repeated showings. University of CA, B.A.D. Blows Up In '88 Let's Active: Beware of Dog By JOHN S. MORGAN Where music is concerned, good, bad and in between are as subjective as Whitney Houston is predictable. Albums are rarely accepted on their own terms: Combat Rock is a good record, but Never Mind the Bullocks is unquestionably a be.tter one. In this vein, summer releases by Big Audio Dynamite and Camp Union performer Let's Active will herein be categorized as \disappointments.\ Joe Strummer fired Mick Jones from The Clash in 1983 and continued on with a band that was The Clash in name only. Jones started Big Audio Dynamite (B.A.D.) and the \New Clash\ picked up where London Call!:1g left off. The rnusic of B.A.D. has a mainstream taste with a rock solid edge and a flourish of be- bop-rap-reggae, Jones growls and plays guitar in a five piece band that includes two Rastafarians. This is Big Audio Dynamite proved to be an impressive debut effort, jumping off turntables bigger than life. Reports that Jones was still bitter towards Strummer were quelled when Joe and Mick collaborated on several songs for B.A.D.'s second record, No. 10, Upping St., which Strummer produced in 1986. Former Clash bassist Paul Simonon, who stayed on with Strummer in the perversion of The Clash, contributes a fabulously striking cover painting to Tighten Up Vol. '88 - leaving Topper Headon as the only original Clash member who has not participated in Big Audio Dynamite in one form or another. Big Audio Dynamite is not a band of angry young punks, but there is plenty of energy in \Rock Non Stop (All Night Long),\ \Champagne\ and most notably \Mr. Walker Said.\ These are the highlights from a 12 track record that lacks the consistency of direction that This is .•. displayed. Of the artists mentioned above, B.A.D. distinguished themselves the most this summer, but Tighten Up •.. delivers few tracks that stand up to repeated listening. . Mitch Easter is many things in the world of rock music, and, in effect, he is the band Let's Active. Easter is a producer of almost legendary proportion; his credits include R.E .M.'s first three records, numerous Game Theory albums, The Connells' last effort and \Luka\ by Suzanne Vega. When there is time in his busy schedule, he enters his \Drive-In Studio\ with the most recent incarnation of Let's Active and cuts an album. Prior to Every Dog Has His Day, each of these occasions were noteworthy - particularly Big Plans for Everybody. Easter readily admits his infatuation with the music of Led Zeppelin, and the feeling is mutual. In an interview this spring, Robert Plant commented that he would \rather mow Mitch Easter's lawn than sing like Steve Perry (of Journey).\ Rather unfortunately, this leaves one with the impression that everything from Every Dog ••• is a derivative of a previous decade. Standing out from the other 12 songs is \I Feel Funny,\ which is accented in a lively way · though the guitar progressions are simple, it is the only track on which what Easter assembled to be a \rockin' band\ is allowed to kick it out. Let's Active has always featured Easter's current girlfriend; Faye Hunter was the band's original bassist and now Angie Carlson plays keyboards and guitar. Unfortunately, she sings too - her vocals on Horizon bring the malaise of The Motels to mind. \Sweepstakes Winner\ would have fit into Big Plans .•• , and it might have been more effective there - in a time when Let's Active was a collection of bit players assembled about Mitch Easter's musical and production talents. ENDORSED (SUMMER) VINYL: UB 40: UB40 RAM ONES: RAMONESMANIA THE FEELIES: ONLY LIFE THE PRIMITIVES: LOVELY NEXT WEEK BILLY BRAGG MICHELLE SHOCKED Berkeley has shown it 17 times since it began touring. At Dartmouth College all freshmen are required to see it. SPAA, Students for Political Awareness and Actioa, is sponsoring American Pictures, Monday, Sept. 26 at 7:00 p.m. in the CoHege Center Auditorium. Admission is free. There will be a follow- up seminar conducted by American Picture's producer, Jacob Holdt, the f morning~ This · seminar will be held in the College Center Auditorium from 8:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m., Sept. 27 for discussion and questions with the photographer himself. Due to the comprehensiveness and value of A m e r i c a n Pictures, many diverse organizations and departments of Union College have aided SPAA in bringing Union students and faculty the opportunity to see and feel American Pictures. Union Orchestra The conductor of the Union College Chamber Orchestra, Hilary Tann, reports that the orchestra is looking good this fall. So good, in fact, that she is changing the repertory to include a complete performance of Beethoven's Fourth Symphony. As usual, the concert will be the third weekend of Winter Term. Rehearsals are held 7:00-9:00 each Thursday in Memorial Chapel. All are welcome to try out a few rehearsals before deciding to stay for the concert. Practicum course credit is now available; details may be obtained from Ann Thomas, AB 214. If you've been hesitating about joining, now's the time. If you haven't brought your instrument, the Arts Department will probably be able to loan you one. It's a great experience to play music live. Think about it. Any questions? -- contact Hilary Tann, AB 320. CROSSGATES MALL CINEMA Fri. & Sat. Only ROGER RABBIT PG 12:50 3:25 7:05 9:45 12:50,3:25 7:05,9:45 11:55 YOUNGGUI\IS R 1:40 4:25 7:25 10:10 1:40,4:25 NIGHTMARE ON ELM ST. IV R 12:30 3:00 DEAD RINGER R 1:30 4:45 BETRAYED R 1:25 4:15 A FISH CALLED WANDA R 2:00 4:55 PATTI HEARST R 1:30 4:35 COCKTAIL R 1:20 4:05 MOON OVER PARADOR PG13 1:00 3:45 KANSAS R 1:10 3:55 DIEHARD R 12:20 3:10 BIG PG 12:35 3:20 5:05 7:50 10:35 7:35 10:20 7:10 10:05 7:45 10:30 7:20 9:55 6:35 9:00 6:45 9:20 6:55 9:30 6:15 9:10 6:20 8:50 7:25, 10:10 12:50 12:30,3:00 5:05,7:50 1 0:35, 12:30 1:50,4:45 7:35, 10:20 12:35 1:25,4:15 7:10, 10:05 12:35 2:00,4:55 7:45, 10:30 '12:40 1:30,4:35 7:20,9:55 12:00 1:30,4:35 6:35,9:00 11:15 1:10,3:45 6:45,9:20 11:30 1:10,3:55 6:55,9:30 11:40 12:20,3:10 6:15,9:10 11:45 12:35,3:20 6:20,8:50 11:10

r - he 1m n., nd l:e to lld n se Its ~d >n te el ;. . ' CONCORDIENSlS, September 22, 1988 Page 15 ~RTS .. & .·ENTERTAINMENT • Ill • ~ Betrayed Yeah .U· I • • By CAMERON KENNY Associate Arts Editor The film \Betrayed\; stairirtg Tom Berenger and Debra Winger, explores violent bigotry and racism in a rural area outside Chicago. Winger ph~ys a J ustiee Depatttnent official investigating the recent murd¢r of a controversial radio talk show host, while Berenger, a deeorated Vietnam. veteran, heads a militant he (.8eringer) believes his ,mercUess racism is justified and acceptabJ'e, · organization dedicated to the eradication of Jews and the \nigger cops\ who support them. \Betrayed\ paints a picture of a seemingly normal ljttle farm community that just Jlappens_ to hunt blacks at night and camp with· tlie Ku · Klux Klan ·on ~eekends. As riveting as this plot would appear to be however, the movie itself falls short .of expectation: it is too long, and the ending iS· anti-climatic and inconclu.sive~ Another problem is that the viewer never really develops enougli feeling for Winger's character. Her only interesting moment is when she realizes that she has been made-a pawn by :men who are litde better than the ohcs she has been investigating. . For all its faults however, \Betrayed\ . makes some interesting points. The most. im,portant of these is the fact . that the \'good guys\ very often . become indiscernible from the \bad guys\. Berenger's attitude after murdering a black is frighteningly similar to that of the black Justice official when, asked how he felt after killing one of the \bad guys\ replies · \Terrific ... like wiping ·something off my shoe\. In other words, a complete disdain .for life and insensitivity is evident on both sides. · Another · interesting point made by the film is tlfat it is possible to be a genuinely caring and sensitive person, slich as Berenger's character is, wlliie at the same time be driven by an ir.J;ational hatted· and violence. Berenger is in many respects innocent, and his love for his family in pa-rticular is - simple and unshakeable, Yet h~ also believes that his merciless racism is justified and acceptable, and this disturbing C()mplexity of his character is perhaps the movie's saving grace. He never reflects, or .questions . his motives.; his . wodd consists of blacks and whites, li~rally. . By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor You are so lucky! Being a student at a small liberal arts coUege in upstate New York you have a plethora of artistic opp<:>rtunities vying for your attention. bo you write, paint, sing, dance, act, make jello sculptures, design gerbil cages, or pursue other such artistic ventures? If so, you are in luck. You are at Union. Some hardened embittered students may accuse me of being facetious or naive. I here assert, regarding this one issue only, I am neither. Below I have Usted the existing Union College art organizations and people to whom interested artists s~ould respond. I find it a bit absurd to demand of artists but..,BE CREATIVE! If Union College does not offer a club, program, or organization which fulfills y.our artistic niche do something about it! Talk with Mrs. Matta, the director .of .student activities; she encourages new ideas. Union College is a small school and while that size may limit already exisiting .organizations it in no way limits the Acting Art Music Perfonnance Video Writing Court Gestures; .. Del> Byer Mountebanks, .. Andy Livemois Photo Club ... Todd Cocorikis ChoirS .. .Jennifer Lyon Concert Band .. Jocelyn Sillger Dutch Pipers ... Tony Mmone Garnet Minstrels ... Katie Kaufman Gospel Singers ... Sharon Prescott Jazz Ensemble ... Ctuiis ?ike Orchestra ... Ed Lynne WRUC .. .Jim Cirincione Dance Club ... Keshia Ga<lson cabaret .. Becky Thayer Club Hollywood ... Mike Kutny Concordiensis {Arts) ... Katie .B:oyd Gamet Y earbook ... Richard Crocker The Idealist ... Michael Weiss Idol Magazine ... Katie Boyd Union SentineL.Dan Ke11iry . On the whole, \Betrayed\ could have been better than it was. More insight into Winger's character, particularly with respect to ber feelings tQward ·:aerenger, would have s:ubstantialiy.aided the m9vie's effectiveness, -and better , possibilities. direction would not have hurt _ either. \Betrayed\ is worth seeing, but wait until it comes outon video. ·B- Union College's Answer To lmptov. Comedy the co,urt gestures are holding group audtions sept. 22 at 7:00 .pm in the Nott Mountebanks SENIORS By ANDREW LIVERNOIS The ·Mountebanks is a student-run· organization dedicated to the promotion of theatre on campus. We are involved in all aspects of theatre production, from lighting and costumes, to acting and 'directing. As a group we usually perform at least one production a term. We also sponsor outside performers who come to Union. Our repertoire is as diverse as our membership,. and we produce all t)':pes of shows.,· from serious dramas to musicals. In the past several years our successes have included mucials like \Pippin\ ami. \Godspell\, along with sericuspieces such as \Waiting for Godot\ and \Crimes of the H~\. This coming term we are planning to produce the second annual Theatre-Fest, a four day atts festival intended to get ·a many people involved in the ruis at Union, either as active participants or as audience members. If will be an exciting term.. full of activity and energy. We invite anyone interested to get involved in theatre at Union. Experience is never prerequisite for getting involved, and there are so many varied things. which go into ...----- ........ ---------..;-------····----........;,.-_,...__ ....... _..__......,....., Pure & Simple ' .. Nutrition Center \Every Good Thing Comes From Above\ 1609 Union. Street 377-8971 M-F 9:30-6:00 ·SAT 9:30-5:00 ··Nourish your brain and body with safe and natural vlatmins, herbs, foods ... 1 Oo/o discount to all U;nion Students with this ad and your tO. producing theatr-e there is sure to be something for everyone to do regardless of your particular talents. Costumes have to be made, sets built, publicity organized, lights hung, and a hundred other things aleng with the actual performing. If you want to get involved, we are located in the Nott Memorial building, our meetings are at 4:00 on Tuesdays, and you are welcome to stop by any time. AUDITI~ONS For the Mountebanks production uovertones 11 , on Mon. & Tues., Sept. 26 & 27, 7:00-9:00 in the No1t Memorial. Cast calls for 4 females. Formal pictures September 26-30 Sign up in Room 408 in the CoUege -Center Sign up early to get bes1 sitting. Don't miss out. Boo,ks will 'be on sale for $25.00, payable cash check. •· 1n or \S .... .. .. ..

r - 1e m 1., ld e to td 1 e ts d n e ~· CONCORDIENSIS, September 22, 1988 Page 15 A_R_T_S_· _& __ E_N_T_E_R_T_A_I_N_M_E __ N_T ___________________ ~~·~~~ Betrayed Yeah U! By CAMERON KENNY Associa,te Arts Editor The film \Betrayed\, starring Tom Berenger and Debra Winger, explores violent bigotry and racism in a rural area outside Chicago. Winger plays a Justice Department official investigating the recent murder of a controversial radio talk show host, whHe Berenger, a decorated Vietnam veteran, heads a militant he (Beringer) believes his merdless racism is justified and acceptable. organization dedicated to the eradication of Jews and the \nigger cops\ who support them. \Betrayed\ paints a picture of a seemingly normal little farm community thatjust happens to hunt blacks at night and camp with the Ku Klux Klan on weekends. As riveting as this plot would appear to be however, the movie itself falls short of expectation: it is too long, and the ending is anti-climatic and inconclusive. Another problem is that the viewer never really develops enough feeling for Winger's character. Her only interesting moment is when she realizes that she has been made a pawn by men who are little better than the ones she has been investigating. For all its faults however, \Betrayed\ makes some interesting points. The most important of these is the fact that the \good guys\ very often become indiscernible from the \bad guys\. Berenger's attitude after murdering a black is frighteningly similar to that of the black Justice official when, asked how he felt after killing one of the \bad guys\ replies \Terrific .. .Iike wiping something off my shoe\. In other words, a complete disdain for life and insensitivity is evident on both sides. Another ·interesting point made by the film is that it is possible to be a genuinely caring and sensitive person, such as Berenger's character is, while at the same time be driven by an irrational hatred and violence. Berenger is in many respects innocent, and his love for his family in particular is simple and unshakeable. Yet he also believes that his merciless racism is justified and acceptable, and this disturbing complexity of his character is perhaps the movie's saving grace. He never reflects, or questions his motives; his world consists of blacks and whites, literally. On the whole, \Betrayed\ could have been better than it was. More insight into Winger's character, particularly with respect to her feelings toward Eerenger, would have substantially aided the movie's effectiveness, and better direction would not have hurt either. \Betrayed\ is worth seeing, but wait until it comes out on video. B- By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor You are so lucky! Being a student at a small liberal arts college in upstate New York you have a plethora of artistic opportunities vying for your attention. Do you write, paint, sing, dance, act, make jello sculptures, design gerbil cages, or pursue other such artistic ventures? If so, you are in luck. You are at Union. Some hardened embittered students may accuse me of being facetious or naive. I here assert, regarding this one issue only, I am neither. Below I have listed the existing Union College art organizations and people to whom interested artists should respond. I find it a bit absurd to demand of artists but. .. BE CREATIVE! If Union College does not offer a club, program, or organization which fulfills your artistic niche do something about it! Talk with Mrs. Marra, the director of student activities; she encourages new ideas. Union College is a small school and while that size may limit already exisiting organizations it in no way limits the . possibilities. Acting Art Music Performance Video Writing Court Gestures ... Dcb Byer Mountebanks .. .Andy Livernois Photo Club ... Todd Cocorik.is Choirs ... Jennifer Lyon Concert Band .. .Jocelyn Singer Dutch Pipers ... Tony Moronc Garnet Minstrcls .. .Katic Kaufman Gospel Singers ... Sharon Prescott Jazz Ensemble ... Chris Pike Orchestra ... Ed Lynne WRUC .. .Jim Cirincione Dance Club ... Keshia Gadson Cabaret... Becky Thayer Club Hollywood ... Mike Kutny Concordiensis (Arts) ... Katie Boyd Garnet Y earbook ... Richard Crocker The ldealist ... Michael Weiss Idol Magazine ... Katie Boyd Union Sentinei...Dan Keniry Union College's Answer To lmprov. Comedy the court gestures are holding group audtions sept. 22 at 7:00pm in the Nott Mountebanks SENIORS By ANDREW LIVERNOIS The Mountebanks is a student-run organization dedicated to the promotion of theatre on campus. We are involved in all aspects of theatre production, from lighting and costumes, to acting and directing. As a group we usually perform at least one production a term. We also sponsor outside performers who come to Union. Our repertoire is as diverse as our membership, and we produce all types of shows, from serious dramas to musicals. In the past several years our successes have included mucials like \Pippin'' and \Godspell\, along with serious pieces such as \Waiting for Godot\ and \Crimes of the Heart\. This coming term we are planning to produce the second annual Theatre-Fest, a four day arts festival intended to get ·a many people involved in the arts at Union, either as active participants or as audience members. If will be an exciting term, full of activity and energy. We invite anyone interested to get involved in theatre at Union. Experience is never prerequisite for getting involved, and there are so many varied things which go into Pure & Simple Nutrition Center M-F 9:30-6:00 SAT 9:30-5:00 \Every Good Thing Comes From Above· 1609 Union Street 377-8971 .. Nourish your brain and body with safe and natural viatmins, herbs, foods.~~ 1 0°/o discount to all Union Students with this ad and your I.D. producing theatre there is sure to be something for everyone to do regardless of your particular talents. Costumes have to be made, sets built, publicity organized, lights hung, and a hundred other things along with the actual performing. If you want to get involved, we are located in the Nott Memorial building, our meetings are at 4:00 on Tuesdays, and you are welcome to stop by any time. AUDITIONS For the Mountebanks production ~~overtones II, on Mon. & Tues., Sept. 26 & 27, 7:00-9:00 in the Nott Memorial. Cast calls for 4 females. Formal pictures September 26-30 Sign up in Room 408 in the College Center Sign up early to get best sitting. Don't miss out . Books will be on sale for $25.00, payable cash check. I 1n or • i

Page 1() CONCORDIENSIS~ September 22, 1988 FINSERV 'COMPUTER CORPORATION Eighteen year old' Schenectady based Service Bureau has expanded to the Telemarketing Industry to meet the needs of our clients'. WE NEED 15 PHONE AGENTS 'To contact our clients' ~already existing customers and members to explain and to offer new services available. •walking distance f:rom campus • paid training • no cold cal'ling • advancement opportunities •morning/evening hours •friendly nonpress-u:red environment If you have a clear speaking voice and a professional attitude · tQward business, call Lori at 374-3051 for interview. .'ME:DITATION -STUDY GROUP Instruction for beginners and practice in silent, sitting med.itation Every Monday at 5 pm College Center 302 WATSON REMINDER Applications are due to Prof. Klein by Monday, Oct. 3 Applications consist of: . 4-6:essay 2 letters of reference 1 transcript For more informatiqn, ·contact Prof. KieHn in SS109 or on x6056 TUTORS NEEDED Do you feel qualified enough to :futor others and eam $$$$$$ whil.e doiAgit? :r so, the AOP lt:roring Service f\!eeds You!! Applications are now being accepted for ALL subject areas. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE SEE:' AOPOFFICE Bailey Hall Room 101 GOlDEN IMAG:E. B·EAUTY ANI;)., TANNiiN:G SALO'N. . 'SPECIAL UNION COLLEGE DAYS\ MONDAY & WEDNESDAY BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 10 AM.--- \LATP . ' .~eaJrchnlg· through the jungle lenders a student loan? Discover Educaid, the student loan speciali$t, and unearth a treasure trove of options and services, Call Gary 374-4367 ' . . . ' .. ~Extra savings on interest forEDUCAID supplemental loans (SLS) · \· ta. A lend.er who woxks ·· as. hard.as youdo.

-CONCORDIENSIS, S:ep.tember 22, 1988 rage 17 CAMPUS NEWS Vocatio·n· AwatenesS' · · Day • Sunday, October 2nd · I from: 1 ,.4 p~m.. at 'Madonna Newman Club ActiVities.· Lake, Grafton, NY - Cost: Merton Tapes • Friday,· · Fr~. Lunch will be provided. A time of information .and sharing on the call to religious life/priesthood. Sponsored by . . ~ ' • For ·Sale: HP-4lCX Calculator; printer, wand, and . numer01,1s modules. Manuals . . and receipts available .. · .. Everything for $5.50.00 or . negotiate separate items. (518) 1371-5661. Lucious Lindsay, Too many late nights makes for a hung-over Freshman. Too ' bad you're a Jun~or! - Love, Jill · September 23rd at noon all are invited to bring brown luncb and listen to a Merton Tapes .in CC404B. Discussion follows. · · the Vocation Awareness Team · · · · . ·· · · .. . .. . . .. I. C_ ....... ·g, TI·m· ·, and Rob: . in collaboration with the • P.ERSON.AI.,s •<U St. John the . Evan.gelist , . Campus Ministry · of the i · ·-~----------- · Th~ks for building our loft Bazaar .. Union students are · AlblUly Diocese';· Any .student : T 3 rd Floor west spont.aneous and for the late night! Ha! Ha! invited to lielp Sr. Joan at '. from Union who is interested . hall meeting tonight?!!! You're · Love, SDT room 151 Union's Newman Club Booth.- . , .please contact . Sr. Joan· the Greatest. W iltgs and , Fries F:dday, · ·: CC404B (3.?_0:_6087). _ September 23rd,. ·6-1.0 and Saturday,. September 24th and • · Campus Protestant S~nday, September 25th ftorn Mi:n.istry A~tivities 2-11. Please sign up in CC404B or call 370-6087. .. Sunday Nigh.~ Su.pper - .·. - weeklY Sunday evening worship. 6/6:45 PM, 4th floor lQtmge of QC. Fellowship time follows. · - Daily morning prayer, weekdays. 8: 15-8:35 AM, ~eplac~. September 25th any Union • students (Ftosh hrcluded) ' wishing to eat as a group before the.7:30 p.m. Ml\sS just get on fOod line· and bring tray to CC2~3 from 5:45-7:().() p.~. Cash customers are also invited .... Bible study and discussion. '!Thursdays, 11:30-12:4,5. Lunch ·•: provided for .those on the meal to participate, Brown Ba:1g Lunch & plan .. Bible Study • Tuesday : . OSeptember 27th. in Colleg~ , i - w,~?eldy ~unday morning Center Room 204 front 11:30 , church - hoppmg as a group: - a.m. to 12:50 .p.m. Please give Sunday~. 9/25: Trinity United meal card num~r to Sr. Joan; . Methodist Church. Meet in beforeHand or bring yollf own -~front of the CC at 9:30 AM. lunch. Tutoring • ,union Coll~ge Writers· and Artists students can. be used in the . Oatmeal Studios Greeting following areas at St. John's · Card. Company needs your school: Kindergarten Aides, · ~unmest and most original Ct'>filputer Math Aides, and ; jid~as !. Send SASE for ~:faf.l] and Reading on a one-to- 1 . gmdeltnes: Oatmeal Studios, one •. Please. contact Kristin I Box 138JN, Rochester, VTT Nelson (386-4354) or Sheila , ~5767. . . l Herihigan(386-4353). · ·· Folk Group • All singers and musiCians interested in being part · of the Music \· Ministry at the 7:30 p.;m •. Sunday Mass please meet at \' 6:30 p.m. in tlie . Church to reh~. · · CL4SSIFIEDS FOR SALE: Sensational' posters! Mind-boggling art. Free catalog. T.E. Breitenbach ·p~o.Box 538A, Altamont, NY 12009. Attn: Professors and RaRa · To Ben and Mike: Thanks again for putting our FUg down!! We'll have to drink · again together.!! love; Jen and Laurie Little Lina, It's the Delta Chi Lobster . . Bake, but what fraternity is he ·from:? · LQve, Little Jill Linds, J\Jst kidding all around - now I'm not going to say it _anymore, Lina. Robbie D, Thanks for always listening to me ramble on - · Love The Only 'L' Left Whati$ House Unity? .. Oops! Lin a Clandestine Star Wars meeting in Suite 265. All interested please attend. To th~ Deltas in Rm. 265: Remem'!Jer tractors, cows. & lots of hay, not to mention the 'stop' on the way home! Love, Little Willy. Ted,. Wie(iehts? Ich woll nur hallo zu sagen! Nadja Ian, How long do I have to put up with this. You're a pain in the butt! I miss your smile. Mikey, Happy, Happy Birthday Sweetie! When is your birthday. you don't know?! Lina Leslie Morris - · Hope the Badgerline Miniline Bus is taking you where you want to go ... Say hi to Muriel. Last year's occupants of 14 Raby Place, Bath. Sue, I no longer fight for the Features desk; Suzanne takes it! The 'othe:r' Features Editor. Beckdudel Hope Firenze is treating you well. The flowers from dinner are still slitting_ in the pseudo- vase~ .. Write! The chief without that invisible \extra part\ Eucharistic . Minister.s Students: Are you bored of & Lectors ~ Any Union cleaning your house? If you are Becky - CB, Just remember .. .it's your tine that's on the butt! IDS, . . (Or is it MJF?) One year · .ater and I still do believe the f)Olar bear story. To my exroommates: You · guys are still the craziest. roommates I'll ever have!! Remember, don't do anything I wouldn't do and let's: -age this weekend!! Love, Laurie. To Jappy Jen: You are the jappiest ·roommate I could ever have e:ren though our rug is still . duty! !! Too . many late · nights??'!? · Guys~ Thanks for the cake, carrots . and fot being such good friends. Love Me. , To Claire & Katie - Next time send him U.P.S. F. To the members of the Delta · Constructiol) Crew: . Nice job remodeling! Maybe the next job can be a chapter house! The real question is: Where do we draw the line? SAFETY! lilly- Have. fun living in PH2. Don't forget to repent on W ednesooy! I love you tons! . Becky. student who wishes to become lo<>kin~ for someone to help, · Hey Cav:e- Hope you're having a great a Eucharistic Minister or a can 393.:9703 references Do you always, put time in Italy. Lookjng forward F- L~tot please contact Sr. Joan available upon request . whipcream on everything you ·to seeing you back at the news Happy #1! We sprang from a (370-6087} or at CC404B_ bake? ·desk soon! random ililffiber and now .. .it's ----~~~--~~~--...--~--=================-~--~===:=:::::::::~--~------------ ..... ~E~l~ise~: sogo00robeb~kwith! 1 . · ILY,L. BLOOM .COUNTY Berke Breathed M;J.tthew, Friends? Forever? I guess that's pushing it? Thanks for diru,Ier - now we're even. Lina. Dear \Viner, Happy 21st B'day! I'm surprised you made it through the night on Monday witlhout 'losing your way' - You're the best & don't eve~ forget that. Love, Ali. M.A., N.G., N. B. -I swear I didn't flush the fish down the toilet; it's been k!dnapped!!! IGck. J ... How are you? Nothing like the long distance personal! · Dot. Dear Betty- We love you from your he3d down to your potatoes! .l_~~!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1:~;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~::::::J_J Room265

,.., rage IH Mrr, Structural Engineering. University of Virginia, Fi· Uc Santa Cruz, Marine Bioi- A University of Michigan, MD Analyzing and designing nance. StudiBs fluctuating ogy. Studies behavior ()f blue· candidate. Assisted on p ric· bridges. Developed working stock and money mark·et whales and effect of environ- ing p:mjects for GM. The HP- m~el of a double spandrela~ch trends. Assisted head trader ment on distribution of mar- 17B offers easy algebraic en try. bridge. The HP-28S helps him in Yen at Chicago Mercantile ine mammals. The new, easy Plus time value of money, ca sh analyze structural stress and Exchange. The HP-12C with to use HP- 22S has a built -in flows and linear regression to • geometry. It's the only calcu- RPNletshimanalyzeprices,. equation librarywiths~l:ver, analyzebudgetsandforecasts. latorthatletshimdobothsym- New Achl·e~~ers II n HPSolveletsherenterherown bohc algebra and calculus. : V 1 formulas and solve for any Heavy Metal, ing Blues matrixmatha~dgraphicscap- an· d Motow· n Packard'scalculatorsarebuilt It features variable. powerful Hewlett- abilities. And HP Solve lets him 1 for. your success. Look {or t~em solve custom formulas without programming. With more than 1500 functions, 32K RAM and both RPN and algebraic entry, the HP-28S is the ultimate sci .. entific calculator. HP-288 SCIENTIFIC CALCULATOR ratios, net present value and internal rate of return. He can even create his own custom programs. The HP-12C is the established standard in fi- nancial calculators. HP-120 FINANCIAL CALCULATOR giving her access to the most commonly used scien- tific equations. Statistics with linear regression. And algebraic entry. The ideal student science calculator HP-22S SCIENTIFIC CALCULATOR . at your campus bookstore. Or call1-800-752-0900, Ext. 65 BE, for your nearest dealer. We neuer stop asking '~What if ... ~il HEW LET T PACKAR D J?e12807

'· CONCORDI£NSI$. 22, 1988 Page 19 • ByDAV~MORRISUN \, Sports'Editor The Union College. soccer team began their se~son with two wins in as many :tries by defeati·ng Cort:Jiand and Skidmore 3-1 and 1-0, respectively. As the team is quite you11g, bav.ing only two seniors and three juniors, one might not expect the .team to have much success. Howevet, so far the· team has shown . some strong tx>tential for the season. This week's Athlete of the Week is one reason for the team's success th'J.s far. Chris Avery, a sopbomore forward .from Ventura High School, · Thousand Oaks, CA; was responsible for the only three goats. scored by Union in the game .against Cortland. Chris · is coming off a very disappolnting rookie'year when be· was injure<!, in the third game of the •. season With a broken .arm and was forced to miss the entire season. He seems to :be well rehabilitated and ready to win games, CIJ,ris. ' . . one of several underclassmen, will be .looked to as the future of Union. Soccer. But, maybe the fu,ture is now! The , soccer team still has a lot of $eason left and many tough opponents yet ·tb come~ However~ with players like A very and through hard work from the entire team, the results of this year may be a pleasant surprise; Good luck to Chris, the team and the coaching staff during the remainder of the season. Ruggers 'Reign' On _Albany State By JEFF ALBRECHT caJ:led a 22 meter drop kick, and Sheridan. The ball w~s 'looped is a free kick. However,. the over an Albany players head to · Last Saturday the Uniop. . referee rul7d the ball ':\as a live fullback J?hn Gob ron who rugby team took on SUNY ball. In_ tlus c~se limon could scampered mto the f!Y zon~ to A1bany in their first match of rush upon it and try to scar~. score. ~he convers1?n faded the season. Led by co-captains Realizing this, front men Chns and the score was 10-0. Chris Sheridan and . Dave · Sheridan and Dave Morrison Albany would get their only Webb, the 'Huns' .won a very rushed the baiL c.arrier as he score minutes. later on a physical game. Coming off the nonc~alantly carne~ the ball. penalty kick fro?l about 30 field was difficult considering Mornson knocked tt free as meters .out. The final score ef that the team only had one Sheridan scooped it up and 10-3 gave Union the win'. week of practice and the wet touc~ed it down for .the sc~re. .. The whole team played well. weather made the play sloppy Shend~ made the .conversmn The serum was strong and the and therefore their play was -and Umon was up 6 .. 0. . . line executed some very prone to mistakes. In the secon? half! UniOn dazzling plays. Steve The first half began with kep~ . up. the .. mtensity and Silberman turned in many high intensity. Both teams pers1sted m fodt~g a1;1y Albany impressive runs against tried to intimidate the other and attempts at sconng. Th~ game Albany. Part-time coach Acox set the·tone with hard hitting as one observer saw l;t, was said, \We played well enough and tackling. Back and forth won when Alba~y ~ushed:.the to beat them, but after a week , hard nosed rugby would eat up ball down to Umon s try h?e. of practice there's still more we most of the clock in the first It . was here that the Umon can improve on.\ Chris half~ Neither team seemed to defense shut down Albany from Sheridan commented, \Both 9ominate the half. With about scoring a try. . Matt Taylor and Dave Austin 5 minutes left in the first half, The second Umon try came mauled as well as I've seen in Union made a heads up play. · on a gre~t play that was any match.\ And Phil Hom had On a missed penalty kick by executed like clockwork. \-!'he a tremendous game for his flrst Union, the ball seemed to roll ball was won by the Umo~ A..;side match. out of the end zone and seemed serum and senior prop Phd The Union men's rugby team to be a dead ball according to Hom scooped up the ball and looks forward to playing the Albany players ig which ran over many Albany play~rs; SUNY Oneonta this Saturday case they can run Jhe ball out be passed the ball to B~tan at home at 1:00 p.m. and up the field. This kick is Spring who i~ turn passed tt to . Union Rugger line prepares to charge deep into Albany's tettltory. Q1:uncor~itn&is SPORTS Soccer Opens With T·wo Wins By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, Jr. The men's sc;>ccer squad opened their 1988 season with two victories this week, defeating Cortland State (3-1). last Wednesday and Skidmore .(1-0)on Sunday. In their first matc·h, coach Magee's troops did not look like the team that trained through the rigorous preseason . In th.e first half, the Dutchmen were unsettled, failing to put togeth.er . any type of consistency in any phase of the gam-e. Cortland, the then number two ranked teani in the state, capitalized on the Union mistakes early, scoring a goal off Denny McTaigue when the defenders failed to clear a ball played into Union's penalty .area .. The re·st of the half progressed in similar fashion, and without McTaigue's brilliant goalkeeping, the Dutch-q1en's deficit would have been far greater. In fact, the team's performance could be summed up by Bret Miller, who, while em;oute to the halftime meeting, kick~d a ball at the then vacant goal. The ball hit the post and -bounced out. Tlte talk must have helped; thmtgh;, because in the second period, the Dutchmen picked up the pace considerably, playing with the excitement and fluidity of a Big Audio Dynamite remix. The, second effort was exemplified through no one more than Chris Avery, who after a season ending arm injury last year, returned with a bang. Avery scored all three of Union 1 s goals at equal intervals throughout the palf. During Avery's spree, the rest of the team came together. The defense, led by Eric SPORTS Reamen, Brian Desmaris, and Mark N aedu denied Cortland thieats, while the midfield tightened up with Rob Kaulbach and David Hass winning tackles and headballs continually. On Sunday, the Dutchmen traveled to nearby Skidmore College where they were expecting a walk, but were in for a shock from the feisty Skidmore boys. \They (Skidmore) played their hearts out, and 1 must admit, I was disappointed with our performance,\ commented coach Magee. The team carried none of the magic it conjured up in the Cortland match, and this time, tbe lax effort almost cost the team. Enter McTaigue again, who saved the Dutchmen time and time again .throughout the game, including two one-on-one saves. \Denny won the game for us,\ added Magee. Efforts, or lack thereof, were good enough though, as Union scored the game's lone goal late in the first half when freshman Eric Gural connected on a cross ,from Terry Campbell for the winner. In the upcoming days, the Dutchmen will have to clean up whatever kinks they have, or as many as an undefeated (going into Wednesday's away game at Hamilton) team might have. From ·there the Dutchmen will face a major test, as they will play four games in eight days, alJ of which are home, but are against major rivals including Binghamton, Albany, and Middlebury. On the J.V. side of things, coach Dan Pittenger's team opened their season against .Skidmore, and beat them 1-0 <tt llloni.e, on a goal by Peter P.I. Cowles, th~, Connecticut Flash. WEEK Friday 9/23 Fie~d Hockey at Rochester Wo.men's Soccer at Mt. Holyoke 4:00pm 3:30pm Saturday 9/24 varsity Football vs. Hobart · Men'$ Soccer vs. Binghamton JV Men's Socce.r vs. Binghamton , Men's Rugby vs. SUNY Oneonta . Sunday 9/25 JV Football vs Williams Monday 9/26 Women's Soccer vs. Vassar Men's Soccer vs. Albany Ill;. Wednesday 9/28 JV Men's Soccer vs. Middlebury Men's Soccer vs. Middlebury Women's Soccer vs. Hamilton Field Hockey vs. Oneonta JV Field Hpckey vs. Oneonta 1:30 12:00 12:00 1:00 2:00 7:00 3:30 3:30 3:30 3:30 3:30 5:00 ..... - ....

1 . Th~. wornen·s~field hockey team ol)ened t~eir season 3-·o, Se_ptember 22, t~5B ·u · G. ·dd ·- c ··- , · nton r1 .... ··. · ers · ont1nu-e By ANDREW SEEWALD The fighting Dutchmen were in Rochester iast Saturday, but it. seemed as if they left the first half of their nickname in Schenectady. The University of Rochester thumped the Union squad 38-3. The loss dropped Coach Al .Bagnoli's squad to 0 and 2 for the 1988 season. Last week at Frank Bailey Field the Franklin & Marshall Diplomats turned back the Dutchmen 17-6. Frequent and untimely penalties as well as an ineffective offense once again were at the heart of the team's demise. In the first half alone, Yellowjacket drives were preserved when Union was called for a roughing the kicker penalty on one punt and a defensive holding penalty on another p\lllt. Both drives ended in touchdowns enabling Rochester to build a 21-0 margin at the half. When the teams came back out for the second half, Mark Callahan took over for junior starter Jim Poirier at quarterback. The results were hardty any better, however. Poirier was 2 for 6 for 6 yards passing, Callahan 2 for 7 for 20 yards and two interceptions to Struggle before giving way to freshman Brett Russ in the fourth quarter when the game had already been decided Noticeably absent from the Union attack was senior :I: (.) Ul 0: UJ ~ UJ ~ •·. . >- ·' co b b it receiver Matt Smith, who caught 6 passes against F & M but now is probably lost fo( the season with a shoulder injury. For the second straight week, kicker Jason Krause accounted for all of the Union points. He connected on a 37 yard .field goal earir in the third ~arterto pull Umon to 21-3, Sut tile Dutchmen were unable t(} add to the scoring~ \'** Union will be at horne ()R ~~-!1':::-Q ~:~ ~ .. :. 0, :r~:- -.· ... Saturday vs, Hobart, kick-off at 1:30pm .. Saturday's gam~, as .. well- as the remaindet of the . · schedule, will be broadca>t on WRUC 89.7 FM. WRUC was on hand at last Saturday's g~e at Rochester, but was un!lblMo broadcast the game due. 10 a problem with the pho11e line connection from the pres~ I:Jox:. 1 ·. ·In Search of the . . Hood Ornament By QRYCE KIM As the parking.l()t of SUNY Potsdam filled with more than half a dozen buses, .each carrying a grouJ> of highly skilled athletes, the minds of the · Dutchmen Varsity Volleyball team were intently on the H.O. The H.O, (hood. oranment, as named by Jane Racket), the first place prize trophy, has never been won by the Union volleyball team in its short history. Through the guidance of Coach Gehling., the fouteeen memebers of tile volleyball team were trained and ready for the two day tournament ahead. Their bodies and their minds fatigued by the trip, spirit and desire led the Dutchmen to their destiny. The team · matchups were set. The cowts and nets were J?Olished and raised. The battle for the HD. was about to commence. Led by team captains, Anne Hoban and Rocky Ghezzi, the unity of the team was sensed by many .. The starters, the bench and tile coach, worked; together in .precision like a treasured Swiss watch. Every -point, side-out and block was praised by the bench vehemently. Furthermore, An.ne Hoban and Sarah Duzic, tlre offensive punch to a defensive tea~: spiked the ball down against the rivals leaving an imprint of \Tachikani; on the opposition's foreheads. However, the price ·they paid for·the first place seed in thier pool was high. In the second game of the second match, an errant set resulted in a head-on collision between two Union players. While the collision was foreseen, the severity of it was not. Jane Racket was hospitalized. Fortunately after a few hours of questions and examinations, she was released. The mixed emotions of victory· and the score of the injury were soon to change for the better. Jane rejoined the team and attention was focused on the fmal matb.es to be held the next ~y. . Union won the semi.final,s in three games and at this point were guaranteed at least a .second place finish 'of the field of eight. Unfortunately, the Hood Ornament slipped through Union's fingers. But, you can be sure there will be other H.O. 's to be won in the near future. The team's unity, pride, and desire motivated them to the best finish in Union volleyball history', Anne; Rocky, Mel, Debbie, Maggie, Sarah, Kim; Lisa; Lisa ll, Jen. Susie, Kris, Alix and eSpecially Jane, I'm proud of you guys. · So tell me guys, how bad did we want it?!?! Hciooooho ... SCOREBOARD Football UnionS Rochester 38 · Field Hockey -Union 6 RPIO UnionS Skidmore 1 Union2 Osw&go 1 Women'•· Soccer Union 1 NewPattz2 UnionO Binghamton 2 Woman•• Tennis Union1 Albany St. 8 Uniono Vassar9 UnionS . M•n•• .So¢cer· Cortlancl1 tlnion 1 SkidmoreO Unlon2 Volleyball tJiarlstO Union 1 Siana2 Union2 Plattsburgh 1 Union2 St. John Fischer 1 Union2 Potsdamo Union2 St. Mikes 1 '·

I (.) (j) a: tu :>:::: ll.J V5 10 § I 0.. Rochester slips tnrough the Dutchmen's grasp. ThEt women's f.ield hockey team. o.pened their season 3-0. September 22, 1988 Union Gridders Continue to Struggle By ANDREW SEEWALD The fighting Dutchmen were in Rochester last Saturday. but it seemed as_ if they left the first half of their nickname in Schenectady. The University of Rochester thumped the Union squad 38-3. The loss dropped Coach AI Bagnoli's squad to 0 and 2 for the 1988 season. Last week at Frank Bailey Field the Franklin & Marshall Diplomats turned back the Dutchmen 17-6. Frequent and untimely penalties as well as an ineffective offense once again were at the heart of the team's demise. In the first half alone, Yellowjacket drives were preserved when Union was called for a roughing the kicker penalty on one punt and a defensive holding penally on another punt. Both drives ended in touchdowns enabling Rochester to build a 21-0 margin at the half. When the teams came back out for the second half. Mark Callahan took over for junior starter Jim Poirier at quarterback. The results were har~ any better. however. Poirier was 2 for 6 for 6 yards passing, Callahan 2 for 7 for 20 yards and two interceptions before giving way to freshman Brett Russ in the fourth quarter when the game ha<l already been decided Noticeably absent from the Union attack was senior I ~ a: ll.J :>:::: ll.J :::::> (I) >- CO· 0 s EE receiver Matt Smith. who caught 6 passes against F & M but now is probably lost fox: the season with a shoulder injury. For the second str$ght week. kicker Jason Krause accounted for all of the Union points. He connected on a 37 yard field goal early in the third quarter to pull Union to 21-3, but the Dutchmen were unable to add to the scoring. '*'** Union will be at home on Saturday vs. Hobart, kickoff at 1:30 pm. Saturday's game. as well as the remainder of the schedule. will be broadcast on WRUC 89.7 FM. WRUC was on hand at last Saturday's game at Rochester, but was unable to broadcast the game due to a problem with the phone line connection from the press box. 1 In Search of the Hood Ornament By BRYCE KIM As the parking lot of SUNY Potsdam filled with more than half a dozen buses, each carrying a group of highly skilled athletes, the minds of the Dutchmen Varsity Volleyball team were intently on the H.O. The H.O. (hood oranment, as named by Jane Hacket), the first place prize trophy, has never been won by the Union volleyball team in its short history. Through the guidance of Coach Gehling, the fouteeen memebers of the volleyball team were trained and ready for the two day tournament ahead. Their bodies and their minds fatigued by the trip, spirit and desire led the Dutchmen to their destiny. The team matchups were set. The courts and nets were polished and raised. The battle for the H.O. was about to commence. Led by team captains, Anne Hoban and Rocky Ghezzi, the unity of the team was sensed by many. The starters, the bench and the coach, worked. together in precision like a treasured Swiss watch. Every point, side-out and block was praised by the bench vehemently. Furthermore, Anne Hoban and Sarah Duzic, the offensive punch to a defensive tea~: spiked the ball down against the rivals leaving an imprint of \Tachikara\ on the opposition's foreheads. However, the price they paid for the first place seed in thier pool was high. In the second game of the second match, an errant set resulted in a head-on collision between two Union players. While the collision was foreseen, the severity of it was not. Jane Racket was hospitalized. Fortunately after a few hours of questions and examinations. she was released. The mixed emotions of victory and the score of the injury were soon to change for the better. Jane rejoined the team and attention was focused on the fmal mathes to be held the next daY· Union won the semi-finals in three games and at this point were guaranteed at least a second place finish of the field of eight. Unfortunately, the Hood Ornament slipped through Union's fingers. But. you can be sure there will be other H.O.'s to be won in the near future. The team's unity, pride, and desire motivated them to the best finish in Union volleyball history. Anne, Rocky, Mel, Debbie, Maggie, Sarah, Kim, Lisa, Lisa II, Jen, Susie, Kris, Alix and especially .lane, I'm proud of you guys. So tell me guys, how bad did we want it?!?! Ho'ooooho ... SCOREBOARD Football Union3 Union 6 Union3 Union2 Union 1 UnionO Union 1 UnionO Union 3 Union 1 Union2 Union 1 Union2 Union2 Union2 Union2 Field Hockey Women's Soccer Women's Tennis Men's Soccer Volleyball Rochester 38 RPIO Skidmore 1 Oswego 1 New Paltz 2 Binghamton 2 Albany St. a Vassar9 Cortland 1 Skidmore 0 MaristO Siena 2 Plattsburgh 1 St. John Fis¢her 1 Potsdam 0 St. Mikes 1

. ' '· . . Founded CXVII, No. 2 Schenectady, New York September 29, ~988 College App,oints . New ·Associate Dean For Undergraduate :Studies Student Forum Proposes Increase In Activities Fee By ELISE FOODY News· Editor For Margaret Schadler, the school year officially began on _the fifteehth of August. It was on this date that the Research Associate Professor of Biology was nam.ed·Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs. She replaced William Daniels,· who Ieft the college ·l~st year to become Dean of the CoU¢ge of Liberal ·Arts· at Roches.ter Institute of Technology. Dean Schadler's new position · will en/compass many • •.-. < •' • ('wbich is cun:ently working on . By BRAD MONDSCHEIN tbe . Writing Across · the Curricu:lu:m project}. S'he is also a member ofthe Academic Affairs Council, and th.e Committee on tbe Standing of Students. These duties are just a sampling. of what the CoUege~s newest dean m11St undertake. Her office will also approve inner-collegiate budg_ets and be responsible for £illing several currently empty positions The Student Forum, passed a · . proposal last week to raise the Student Activities Fee. The Student Forum will send the • proposal to Dean Mammola to raise the fee, which is presently $138, to $150. Next, Dean Marnm.ola will send the · . proposal to the. Board of Trustees, who will make the final decision to raise the fee. Dean Mammola calls the proposal a \reasonable increase\ that has not been done fof two years. within the · College Administration. As well as fulfilling these. obligations, Dean Schadler will also be, teaching a bi()lo-gy course winter term and remains · · · attively involved in the field of The Student Forum either had to raise the fee . : or the money would . research. There are se-veral specific . g<>als. ·nean. S.chadl~r ' wil:i · b.e c.oncentratmg ·on {).uring the ensuing school year. She I · come out of. next years : \ total bu~_ge.t for: .a.!~ t}le~ . clubs would like to see Union adopt · The increase was brought a system designed to offer about due to a deficit that was graduate .school advising. One incurred by student clubs over way to 1 achieve ·tbis would be · the summer. The bills that were to require eaclt ,academic accumulated over the summer department t(:) have one. · totalled over $2~000 in debt. professor res:pc)llsib le for The Student Forum either had to . fO ad.vising students interested in raise the fee or the money would .2 graduate school. come out of next years total .tesponsibilities. Essentially, she is responsible for all of the College's . undergraduate progra~ps. More specifically, she is the coordinator of Freshman }?receptorial . and a liaison to the ·Writing .Board :t . DE?an Schadler is alsc · . budget for all the clubs which is ~ reviewing the p()ssibility of . approximately $289,800. The formulating a procedure tc increase will result in an teach English as a second increase of about $25,000 with language here a:t Union. Doing . the extra money going to the so · would assist \foreign · club budget. , students and foreign-bo111 students who ltave difficulties with the Englisch language.\ She also me11tioned that because Unio11 is. currently involved in s:e-veral formal Exchange Prograros, the need for such a program is Tb:e Senior Representatiave elections are on this Friday and the Student Forum will announce the winner on the following Monday, October 3. becoming more apparent. . · In another area, the Student Another area Dean· Schadler · Forum decided to run a survey would like to examine is the on the students' reaction 'to the possibility of receiving funding new .time system of classes for \improving. the equipment known as \gel time\. Tire for teaching andresearch in the . survey results will help decide if science departme11L\ the Student Forum should try to Finally, DeanSchadlerhopes have the school retum to the to \.research wllat needs to be . past way of timing classes. The done to make t11e freshman year Senior Representative elections successful.\ Sfle stressed the are on this Friday and the , importance of improving Student Forum will announce various aspects M the freshman the winner on the following year such as crientation and Monday, October 3. As well, faculty advising procedures. · the .Student Forum heard from Union's new A.ssociate Dean representatives of the IFC of Undergradl.late Programs ·regarding the school's decision certainly has a busy year ahead ·to stop the pledge meal plan. of her. But Dean Schadler ·The Student Forum told the IFC looks forward t{) confronting rept:-esentatives that it would the challenges that confront stand behind a reasonable her. She has t,.een with the proposal from the Inter- College sine:~ 1968 and Fraternity Council. As of yet, believes that Union is \a great tlie JFC has not offered a pla¢~, and that achieving (her) proposal to the Student Forum. goals will make it even . Therefore, the Student Forum better ... if that's ,possible.;, 1 can take no action. I • Campus, Construction To Be Com.pleted Within the .Next Week By ~ICHAEL C. SILBERSTEIN Orange plastic fences. giant piles of dirt, and makeshift wooden bridges are all sights everyone bas been living with . since the start of school. This · ·enormous mess is aU part of a · project which will eliminate · those annoying blasts of steam from around the Old Chapel · area which occur every winter. In case you aren't familiar with Union winters, coupled : with sub-freezing cold and · mountains Gf snpw, bellowing clouds of steam mysteriously rise from .the Old Chapel area. Along with this, swatches of green grass cut across campus on othefV(ise frozen, snow- .. covered ground. The reasons for this; to evel)1one~s surprise. are leaky and faulty underground steam pipes. In the past, one . leak would be repaired and then another wGuld occur someplace \this week and in another ten . days all work should be completed,\ according to Jack Hill. head of Physical Plant operations. Hopefully this · steam-heat saga will end once and for all. This is not, however, the only construction work being done on campus. Other . endeavors include updating the Field House by adding more showers and. lockers and : creating a new equipment-issue room. This is estimated to be completed by April or May of 1989. In addition, upgrading of Bailey Hall and the Math i Department, shifting of · classrooms and laboratories in Science & Engineering, and rebuilding of bleachers at the 1Jajf of the project is being worked on· now, and the se.cond phase will take place next year. . else. Upon examination the piping line was found to need replacing altogether. Half of the project is being worked on now and tlie second phase will soccer field are other projects take place next year. cm;rently taking place on Since July · 1 this project · campus. (headed by Eckert Mechanical As of yet there are no plans Contracting) has co?tinued •. but · · in .the immediate future for the workhas dragged on a little cons true tion and/or . longer than planned. The · refurbishing elsewhere on material needed was made-to- campus, but there are always order and was not produced fast long -term goalS ahead and the enough [()r the ~project to be : Campus' changing needs are completed before the school ·always in consideration. For year .began. However, an end is now. though, alleviating the · in sight n<>w. Those gaping steam problem is of immediate · trenches should be filled in concern. Photo .of the Week: \Hey! That pizza took mo~e than thirty ·minutes!\

l i. ' l i • CXVII, No. 2 Schenectady, New York September 29, ~988 College Appoints New Dean For Associate Undergraduate Studies By ELISE FOODY News Editor For Margatet Schadler, the school year officially began on the fifteenth of August. It was on this date that the Research Associate Professor of Biology was named Associate Dean for Undergraduate Programs. She replaced William Daniels, who left the college last year to become Dean of the College of Liberal Arts at Rochester Institute of Technology. Dean Schadler's new position will encompass many (which is currently working on the Writing Across the Curriculum project). She is also a member of the Academic Affairs Council, and the Committee on the Standing of Students. These duties are just a sampling of what the College's newest dean must undertake. Her office will also approve inner-collegiate budgets and be responsible for filling several currently empty positions within the College Administration. As well as fulfilling these obligatfons, Dean Schadler will also be, teaching a biology course winter term and remains actively involved in the field of research. There are several specific goals Dean Schadler will be concentrating on during the ' ensuing school year. She would like to see Union adopt a system designed to offer graduate school advising. One way to achieve this would be to require each academic department to have one professor responsible for , 0 advising students interested in § graduate school. ' c. Dean Schadler is also .~ ~ reviewing the possibility of formulating a procedure to teach English as a second language here at Union. Doing so would assist \foreign students and foreign-born students who have difficulties with the English language.\ She also mentioned that because Union is currently involved in several formal Exchange Programs, the need for such a program is becoming more apparent. responsibilities. Essentially, she is responsible for all of the College's undergraduate programs. More specifically, she is the coordinator of Freshman preceptorial and a liaison to the Writing Board Another area Dean Schadler would like to examine is the possibility of receiving funding for \improving the equipment for teaching and research in the science department.\ Finally, Dean Schadler hopes to \research what needs to be done to make the freshman year successful.\ She stressed the importance of improving various aspects of the freshman year such as orientation and faculty ad • ising procedures. Union'& 1ew Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs certainly has a busy year ahead of her. But Dean Schadler looks forward to confronting the challenges that confront her. She has been with the College since 1968 and believes that Union is \a great place, and that achieving (her) goals will make it even better .. .if that's possible.\ Student Forum Proposes Increase In Activities Fee By BRAD MONDSCHEIN The Student Forum passed a proposal last week to raise the Student Activities Fee. The Student Forum will send the proposal to Dean Mammola to raise the fee, which is presently $138, to $150. Next, Dean Mammola will send the proposal to the Board of Trustees, who will make the final decision to raise the fee. Dean Mammola calls the proposal a \reasonable increase\ that has not been done for two years. The Student Forum either bad to raise the fee . or the money would : come out of next years : total budget for all the :clubs The increase was brought about due to a deficit that was incurred by student clubs over the summer. The bills that were accumulated over the summer totalled over $2,000 in debt. The Student Forum either bad to raise the fee or the money would come out of next years total budget for all the clubs which is approximately $289,800. The increase will result in an increase of about $25,000 with the extra money going to the club budget. The Senior Representatiave elections are on this Friday and the Student Forum will announce the winner on the following Monday, October 3. In another area, the Student Forum decided to run a survey on the students' reaction to the new time system of classes known as \gel time\. The survey results will help decide if the Student Forum should try to have the school return to the past way of timing classes. The Senior Representative elections are on this Friday and the Student Forum will announce the winner on the following Monday, October 3. As well, the Student Forum heard from representatives of the IFC regarding the school's decision ·to stop the pledge meal plan. The Student Forum told the IFC representatives that it would stand behind a reasonable proposal from the Inter- Fraternity Council. As of yet, the IFC has not offered a proposal to the Student Forum. Therefore. the Student Forum can take no action. Campus Construction To Be Completed Within the Next Week By MICHAEL C. SILBERSTEIN Orange plastic fences, giant piles of dirt, and makeshift wooden bridges are all sights everyone has been living with since the start of school. This enormous mess is all part of a project which will eliminate those annoying blasts of steam from around the Old Chapel area which occur every winter. In case you aren't familiar with Union winters, coupled with sub-freezing cold and mountains of snow, bellowing clouds of steam mysteriously rise from the Old Chapel area. Along with this, swatches of green grass cut across campus on otherwise frozen, snow- covered ground. The reasons for this, to everyone's surprise, are leaky and faulty underground steam pipes. In the past, one leak would be repaired and then another would occur someplace . else. Upon examination the piping line was found to need replacing altogether. Half of the project is being worked on now and the second phase will take place next year. Since July 1 this project (headed by Eckert Mechanical Contracting) has continued, but the work has dragged on a little longer than planned. The material needed was made-to· order and was not produced fast enough for the ·project to be completed before the school year .began. However, an end is in sight now. Those gaping trenches should be filled in ,.-.,.~$* §c\' ''<:.~! ~t,i>:' ' ~·~ \this week and in another ten days all work should be completed,\ according to Jack Hill, head of Physical Plant operations. Hopefully this steam-heat saga will end once and for all. This is not, however, the only construction work being done on campus. Other endeavors include updating the Field House by adding more showers and lockers and · creating a new equipment-issue room. This is estimated to be completed by April or May of 1989. In addition, upgrading of Bailey Hall and the Math , Department, shifting of classrooms and laboratories in Science & Engineering, and rebuilding of bleachers at the Half of the project is being worked on now, and the second phase will take place next year. soccer field are other projects currently taking place on campus. As of yet there are no plans in the immediate future for construction and/or refurbishing elsewhere on campus, but there are always long-term goals ahead and the · campus' changing needs are ,always in consideration. For now, though, alleviating the steam problem is of immediate concern. / / Photo of the Week: \Heyl That pizza took more than thirty minutes!\ 0 0 :c a.. UJ =' \.0...

\ Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS September 29, 1988 ,., ,·; Will It Work Fo·r the Democrats In November? 1 workers, and Sout~~rn whites._ favor of Jackson, the electorate · . 'The blacks and liberals have • w.as not able to fQrmulate ~ clear :: proven to be' the voters most p1cture of · the Democratic •, loyal: to the party, while the -presidential nominee. This tactic ·Southern white.s. the appears to have .hurt the , · · conservative wing of the patty, : · Democrats in .th.e. long run, as · : have proven vulnerable to ·, support for Dukakis lessened · . • Republican ideology. It was the . when the Republicans attacked · AWARE· ' . . at Union ' - •, - -· By AMY BABOFF ·Southern whites who· deserted· his character. · · - · · · AWARE· was started in the · the party in 1980 and 1984 by In _contras_ t to. th_e :F>em·- a· crats· · , _·.. . f 1 · · · by JE'D FERDINAND The Democr:ttic .Party is numerically superi01; to the Repuhlican Par~y in voter registration, in C()ngress, and at most levels of state and local governments. Despite this numerical advantage, the Dern()ctats have been· soundly defeated in four of the last five general elections, Why is it so d'i.ffkult for the · Democrats t() win a Presidential election? The Dem()cratic Party appears to be faeed with one of the great ironies in Ameri.can politics: their size has lessened the party's unity. If partisanship were the basis by which: th.e American electorate determined their vot~, then the Dem<>cratic Patty would easily dominate electoral politics. Yet, much to the dismay of the Democrats, the nature of political parties has changed considerably. The role of the political party in voting. for Ronald Reagan. The u a ;l of 1987 by a group of . determining an individual's v0te • main· Democratic objective in . the Republicans achieved unity · · . concerned s·tudents to discuss • has been greatly diminished. _ this campaign has been to try · i behind George Bush as fat back social issues on campus. The , The American electorate is now _and solidify the_ party by, • · as Super Tuesday; go,al of this organization is to · mo\e m· dependent an· d as s· een m' f ·· rais· e s· t.u-:len'· -t cons·ciousness· · · · • · - · - · · • . · · · satisfying. ·each o these rnajo! . While the Democrats were . Q · 1980 and 1984 when. rnany groups .. stru,gglin~te acquire a sense<of ! th~oug'h recogniZing, · Democrats voted for Ronald · · · • . • unity, the Repllblican.s had . • identifying, and understanding ·Reagan, more likely to vote for The Democrats have taken the already taHi,ed behind a __ ·. strictly problems that affect both men the Opp . osi'ti\on•s· cand- 1 \d·ate neces. sary_ ·steps to u_nify. ·t·be ·and 4 \ome·n· · · · · · - · · · · · · •, conservative ideolog· y. The · \ · P arty· a11d appease their maJ· or.· · Indeed ta· st y· ·ear· AW. · AR- E. the past twenty yeats have · Republican Party is by nature a · ' · · · .· · · · · - - . constituellcies. The Democrats h b, h · sponsared many successful proven that the Democratic h Ll d B h . muc -more sta · .Le, · . omogenous , party can no longer rely on their · c · ose ' oy ' entsen as t · err entity than the Democratic ·. programs. During the heated . • ·a1· d vice-presidential nominee toPar_ t·y·. 'T····.h·us,. w·· he·n-. que· stt'o·· ns· i ·.pornography·· debate that tore numenc · a vantage toguara11tee - . . -. . -. . electoral .success. Differences please the conservative wfug of arose conceniingthe,credentiats . - apart the. college community, between the liberal \nd the pa~ty,. and allowed Jesse of t>an Quayle, the ! . AWARE took the initiative to \' · Jackson t() control the first half h film. · h' h · d conservative wing· s have catised ; _ conservatives were quick to : 8 ow a -· · w tc remame · of the convention to satisfy the neu\\'at· p~ese· nti'n· g· a ~ · d. a rift in a party that on·ce · J·_ ttmp to his defense, clabning· · · · • \' · , .. · J·atr an · . black voters. The Democrats did ace t · · ture f b th · 'de. · f displayed great unity. The party · u. nfair treatment by-the press. . • ·· · ura e pte . · o o .. St . s. o . . appear 11nified at their the c_·_onfrontation __ . A worksho· ,n 1s no longer driven towards one • · · · r convention.. but sacrificed a The Democrats have rn. -ade , on communication s .. kill.s w. as ideology a() it was in the 19(i0's • dealb do' · · · b h . great · · Y· mg so~ .. g· teat stride.s towards unifying . offered and a speaker lectured • e · 111d John Kennedy and ·. Lyndon Johnson. The: crux of The focas throu-ghout the the party 'behind Mich-ael. ori alc,:ohol abuse. A strong the problem ties with the convention should have been Dukakis. The outcome in ' focus was placed on violence in , difficulty of the Democrats to . Michael Dl.ikalds and his role as November will prove if their •. relationships as well, including satisfy their major vQting the \savior\ -of the party. efforts were successful, or 'Such tapics as. date. rape, sexual groups. Center-stag~ .was instead given simply too little too late. Vet, · harassment in the workplace, to Jesse J~ckson, who was if the Republicans w:in the . • and sexuality in. the media. The Democratic party is angered at the selection of a Q:pcoming · election, the ease : · In addition, \'CrQsstalks · basically comprised of four conservative as vice president. · with which they achieve· • panel discussions where traditional constituencies: By diverting critical media unification must be seen as a members of the audience are liberals, blacks, blue-collar attention _away from Dukakis in major factor in theit victory:. , · continued on page 3 ,. __ ....,. ____ ... _____ ... __ .... ________ ._ -----~ ...... _.;.. ________ ._ ................ ,- ... I . . --- --- ·- . -. . I Please enter my subscription to The New York Times as checked. Rates a.re ?O% below •. 1 the daily newsstand rate, th.at's only 25¢ per copy •. Delt_very for the. Fall te}'Dl will :1 I start on Monday, Sept. 26, 19-88 and en<i on Friday, Nov. 18, 1988 at any of the . 1· I following locations: · ·1· I· Check one { ) Do or-to-])o or (On c:ampus) ( ) Library (Lock Box) 1· . I ( ) F/\41 TERM ( ) FULL YEAR I I ( ) Weekdays (Mon-Fri) $10.00 $32.50 I 1 ( ) Weekdays (Mon-Sa t) 11. 7 5 3~ • 25 I ' I ( ) Weekdays & Sunday 22•25 72.75 ·• ()Sunday only 10.50 34.50 · _I Please enclose payment arid make cl:tecks payable te: Ron Ki11ghorn. I . f Delivery for the Winter term begins Mo.nday, Jan. 9, 1989 and ends Friday, March lOth. _ I Get with The Times. I · I I I NAME PHONE. I I I I .AJ)DRESS . CLASS YEAR I I (Detach he:re and insert ~n envelope) - l l _....._.. __ ..... ___ ... __ ..,. ........ ....._ ---..... ····------------------1· ,,

CONCORIJlENSIS September 29~ 1988 - Page 3 Tenth Ani1ual Career- Fe$tival Scheduled for Octo_ber 5th By DEBRA M. DICKES The tenth annual Union College Career Festival;y,~hich -· will be 'held in the Field House on Wednesday, October 5, 1988, ftom 12:00-5:00 p.m.,. will provide a unique and . valuable opportunity for ALL students to discuss care~r ·options and graduate school possibilities with corporate recmiter.s and professionals :firom a variety of fields .. The info,rmational atmosphere of the festival · facilitates discussion between .students and professionals. to provide specific company information or general career direction. Make contacts and con.duct informational interviews with representatives from AT&T, Prudential, IBM, Merrill Dow, and the Peace Corps. These are only a Jew af over thirty fmns which will be represented Gaing to grad school? Come meet representatives from top· .. law, medical, business, ·engineering, and public .affairs programs. Not sure about your futirre? Discuss opportunities with repres_entatives from a variety of professional areas including . . h commumcatton,s, _ uman services_, financial services, · engineering and advertising. Interested in an internship? Come meet witt. representatives fromJptemship programs to discuss the possibility of gaining work experience while yo11 a:re still in college. To make the most of your time at th:e Career Festival, - why not .prepare questions to ask the participants beforehand? · _ The CDC has handouts on · informational interviewing -avail!lb le to help you ask insigh-tful and helpflll questions throughout the day. ~heck with y()ur depart:ment TODAY to see the list of employers who are speCifically interested in-students with your academic background or stop by the Career Development Center. Use your -precious dme wisely~ come to the most infounative Career Festival so · far! For more details. contact ·. Nanc:y Ellennann, Career · Festival Coordinator 1 ·at 370- 6176. CDC NEWS Sept. 28-30 Mock lnterv.lews . - Take advantage. of -this -.opportunity to pracUce and improve your interviewing skills through a private video.taped session with a CDC staff member. A shari interview is- followed by evaluation and diScussion. Sept. 30 Posting of Results for On•Campus Rec:nlitlng 'Oct 3 Closed Slgn•Ups for On-Campus Recr~ltilig Oct. 3 Interviewing Skills • Learn to identify yolir strong points and to prepare for and present yourself effectively in a personal inte.rview. Oct. 4 Open Sign-Ups for On.Campus RecrUltiilg. The -followi\g .companies have openings: •AT & T Bell Labs .•Coopers & Lybrand _ •Continental Telephone - •Digital Equipment - •Gordon Day- Teaching in Private Schools •Rome Air D&velopment . •International Paper -Oct 5 Career Festival •New England Power •Naval LJnderwater System •Northwe.stem Mutual •Philade£phia Electric •US Department of Energy •USAF Civilian Personnel Management •Up jolt n Representatives of national and loca.l businesses,' government agencies, career areas and graduate schools w111 be on !land .to discuss career opportunities in their organizations and fields. I.NTERNSHIPIFEtLOWSHIPS For more lnformt~tion· contact the Career Development Center Herbert. _ Seo.vl!le. Peace Fenowshi~ provides &lUdents with the opportunity .to work in Washmgton, D.C. for disarmament, 11uc:le~r arms control and peace organizations. Application Deadline: October 15, 1988; • Inc. Magazine is iooking for editorial interns to work- full or part time durii')IJ the month of January. • Yo11nger Scholars Award is -available for inclividlnlls who want to conduct research and writing ~roje¢!S in humanities diJfiflg the summer of 1989. Freshmen, :Sophomores and Juniors are encourage~ to ~ply, Deadlln$: November 1, 1 988. . . • U.S. Department of State is once again sponsoring student interns Interested in gaining American foreign affairs experience. Deadline for- application: November 1, 1988 • Cpplial' District Automobile Dealers Association located in Albany, offers fall and spring internships in Public Relations and Mediation/Management • Washington Post is offering a summer lnternslllp program for students interested in journalil;m. Deadline for application: November 15, 1988. • UCLA is offering a variety of :graduate fellowships for minorities ancl women. · · • Dow Jones Newspaper Fund, Inc, located in 'Princeton, New Jersey, has. openings available for newspaper editing intems. Application deadline: Ncvember 15, 1.988. • !he Office of Management and Productivity, llicated in Alb~ny, is - mterested In having a paid intern to assist lh reQord management proj~ct. • Colo~ie Senior. Sen! ice Centers, Inc., lo~ted 111 latham, has Internship opemngs available .for students Interested In the 11uman service field. • Howard Hughes Medical Institute is awarding do~oral fellowships in · Blol~lcal Sciences for M.l time study toward a Ph.D. or Sc, ·o. Application deadhne: November 14, 1988. . - GRADUATE SCHOOL$ The, following graduate schools will be on campus tills term. Please, sign· up ln- .. the CDC for lnt~rvlews. - Boston University • 9128188 . Columbia University • 1 011.2/aa Pace ,University • 91291~8 State Collage of Optqmetry ~ Uf19/88 Wuhington & lea Law School - 11/2.188 . . RE_$UME REFERRAL PROGRAM SEA Consultants ~ ce, ME, EE-Deadlln& for resumes 1114/SS. Island Riicteationai-Any Major. RestJrnes due 11/14188. President Speaks at Alumni .Council Meeting By FIONA SHUKRI Editcr-in-Cb!ef This past Saturday, roughly 100 a-lumni gathered in the College Center Auditorium at j :00 a .. Jtl. for· the annual fall Cambridge Professor Speaks at M •. 1,nerva L.ectur-e BY KELLY McGOWAN Alumni Council Meeting. In There has been a- new face in · between tbeir greetings to one the English department lately. · . Writing.\ Professor Tanner used excerpts from Herman Melville, Hugo Von Hoffmansal and Jean Paul Sartre to show the fascination so many writers have had with · another~ many of the older Tony Tanner,. a reader in the alumnie*pressed surprise over faculty of English at the class of 1992's\ first ever Cambridge University, has the city of Venice. · The focus of his faculty 50~ 50 male to female ratio. come to Unioll as a Thomas After the approval of their Lamont Visitin,g Professor of spring meeting's minutes, Literature. He has been on Peter K. Smith, President of campus for two weeks the Alumni Council, st:a:m:ed off de'liverin,g leectures and · • the meeting by expressing · conducting seminars. regret over the fact that a small · Professor Fa.nner is an ' - - 1 proportion of students would accomplished literary critic. He ··.·know that Old Chapel was is the author of several books . built a,s. a memorial to faculty of crittcism, including The · and students killed in World Reign o.f Wonder: : , War IL He stated that he does Naivety aRCI ReaHty in .: not blame -the students for their American Literature, ignorance, however, because · Henry Jame~: The Writer the college has placed a screen and His Wo r:k, City of. in front ofthe commemorative Words and Aclltltery in the plaque. Novel. ' 1 He stated that \It is a poor The Lamont Visiting seqanar centered on selected reflection on our values as a Professor Ptogr4!rn b:rings two novels by Joseph Conrad. The community when the storage internationally ]mown writers novels Professor Tanner was Qffolding chairs is valued more or literary criti-<Js,, such as Tony , mainly concerned with were than a memorial to members Tanner, toUni<m College each Victory, Heart of killed in the war.\ year; All of the arrangements · Darkness, Under Western · Smith then introduced and the.schedulingof events for Eyes and The Secret President John Morris. the stay of visiting professors 11\gent. This seminar was mentioning the president's is handled l>y tile English conducted over several upcoming trip to China and Department. afternoons during Professor Japan. While on CaJilpus, Professor Tanner's two week stay. Morris began his comments _ Tanner gave a Minerva Lecture Professor Tanner spent his by announcing that the college • 1 and. conducte~ a faculty - . r~n:~ining ti~e on campus year has begun in \good 1 semmar. The topic of his : vis tUng English classes and fashion\ noting that the 1 Minerva lect 11 re was \Desire !talking individually with admissions office had aimed for · \ and the City:. Venice. and · .interested students: an incoming class of 520, and .r ....... - ...... ~-'\':'-. ;;...,_..,.._ ,;.,. __ ...;,_~ ... _.;..,;;, ;;.;_~_ ....::::.::=..-L---------~- ~~~~~edo~2~~~~~:u~~n~esn1~: iAWAR,E P'ans Upcoming Events - scores an \experiment\ and • ~Continued frC>m page 2 · AWARE further hopes to tram reported that about 25% of · 1 provoked to S-]Jeak out! ~ere · members and other interested applicants chose not to have ~ell attended and gave mst~ht ·students to lead discussion those scores considered. mto heated and co~troverstal . groups at various campus Althongh he stated it wa~ matter.s. For ex~mple, the • locations, such as dorm too early to have a sense of V,?la.tt~e . subject ~f . lminges or the College Center. discnnunatton was tackled m what this year's freshman class the session entitled \Is the A bi-weekly column in looks like, judging from c · wh~te male the new minority?\ oncord1ensis will give external fac~ors it looiss · dd' · 1 · f · \enthusiastic. delighted to be at , AWARE has various plans ; ~ ltmna 1_n _ ~rmattou on Union. and full of great for the coming academic year. ·11ssues and actJ.vtties. expectatiQn.\ !Among these are a workshop AWARE meets Monday The president informed the· on eating disorders- and · nights at 7:00 p.m. in the meeting of some significant nutrition, a panel <>n sexually 'college Center, and new continued on page 4 . transmitted diseases, .and two membership, as well as !Crosstalks--the first between -participation in programs, is WATSON REMINDER A.p·p ncations are due to Proi. Klein by Monday, Oct. ·3 Applications consist of: 4-6 Page essays 2letters of reference 1 transcript Fo·r more information, contact Prof. Kleln in SS019 or on x6056 Planned Pa:ren thood !highly encouraged, If you have , representatives a11d a Right to any questions, contact Alysia iL_ife co:rtuni.tteeand the second :at x4074, Robin at x448l, or ; on the proposecl institution of · Joanne Tobiessen, AWARE's the honor code at Union. J advisor, at CDC. UNION REVIEW OF BOOKS- BELOVED Toni Morrison \Beloved\ is Toni Morrison's fifth novel, and another triumph. lnde~d. Ms. Morrison's versatility and tectmical and emotion~! rage appear to know no bounds. If there were any doubts about her stature as a pre-eminent American novelist, of her own or anY! other genration, \Be.loved\ Will put them to rest. In tt'\ree words or less, it's . a hair-raiser:'p -Margaret Atwood New York Times Book Review Objective: Monthly discussion open to the campus commuinty- faculty , staff, and students-. involving a book selectecd for its visibility and potential interest to the community . Meeting dates are the second Wednesdyay of eabh m~11th throughout the academic school y·ear from 1 :00 .t<l 2:00 pm at the College Center. FIRST SELECTION FOR 1988-89 BELOVED: A Novel. On sale at 1he Campus Store at a discount of 50%. WEDt4ESDAY, OCTOBER 19,1988 IN THE COLLEGE CENTER 1:00 .. 2:00 P.M.

Page 4 CONCORDJBNSIS September 29, 1988 Union Welcomes Twenty-two New Faculty Members By LIZ SEWARD and gender, while Professor As you arrived on campus Loseke has pablished on this fall, you may have noticed battered women and family , more than a few new faces in . violence. Stephen Chris Zehr, your classes. In addition ~o the· who joins the staff as a Class of 1992, the CoHege was. visiting instructor. arrives from also joined by many new Indiana University. His ' faculty members. They are teaching areas and interests sp.read all over tJ1e campus and inch.Jde the sociology of will sufely add a new facet to science and technology, your college careers. poJ..hical sociology and the The AFts Department and the sociology of religion. Sociology/Anthropology The English Department Department can claim the most · welcomed Bonney MacDonald new faculty, with four apiece. · and Bruce Mciver to Union t11is Joining the Arts Department fall. Professor MacDonald are Michael Bach, a· earned . her Master's in photographer, as an adjunct American studies from Yale assistant professor; Annette Univers-ity and Nottingham Dixon, art historian; and Chris University in England. Duncan, sculptor, both visiting 1 Visiting Assistant Professor assistant professors, and Wende . Mel ver was most recently a Garton, who is joining Union· lecturer at the Universi~y of as an adjunct instructor of Santa Barbara, and a Senior rl..,n,~. Fulbright Lecturer in American ln the Suciotogy and literature at the Univerze Anthropology Department, Edvarda Kardelja in Virginia Jonas Dersch tau.ght :yugoslavi~. most recently at Colby · In the Geology :Department, College, and joins the faculty ·George Hamill Shaw accepted as a vislUng assistant · the position of the ,John and professor, as does Tamar Jane Wold Professor of Gordon ·and Donileen R. Geology. Since 1974, Loseke. Professor Gordon Professor Shaw has been at the SP,ecializes in the anthropology School of Earth Sciences at the of religion, sociolinguistics, · University of Minnesota, most Warde Praises Gen Ed at Council Meeting Continued _from page 3 administrative changes. Vice- President Thomas D'Andrea has left on a leave of absence and will return at the end of the year to teach in the psychology department. He has been replaced by James Underwood who will become the college's chief academic officer. He also mentioned the implementation of General Education. ~ .. torris will be leaving for Japan at the end of October. Union's sister school, Kansai Gaidai, is celebrating its anniversary and has extended an invitation to attend. He will then travel to China to sign another three year contract with Union's sister school in China, Nanjing. He commented that \It is import~mt to have our students understand something about the· movement of thought and openness. and the general power of China, and Asia in general.\ After the Annual Fund report was given, Director of Alumni Affairs, Paul Reischick spoke about the College considering legacies in a more competitive manner and plans for educational seminars on reunion weekend. He stated that · a report on whether Reunion 1 Weekend should remain I scheduled for Commencement 1 . Weekend in the future ~has been requested, A treasurer's report was then given. followed by reports from various committees . including o~e from Faculty and Academic Programs. Anton Warde, Director of General Education spoke about the effects he expects the new curriculum to have on students' education. He states that classes departing with the new curriculum will have: a deeper and broader knowledge of their heritage (including non- . western), more knowledge of foreign languages. a better understanding of the methodolo.gy of social , sciences. and keener experience in the natural sciences. Much of the meeting was consumed by repQrts ·Of the financial and project status of various college committees. The attending alumni, who appeared remarkably concerned and in tune with the college's current affairs ajoumed around noon to attend the dedication of , the artificial turf. The ad hoc committee considering the tenurability of Professor Harold Fried will welcome testimony on the candidate's teaching, scholarship I research, and college service. If you wish to contribute, either in : writing or orally., to the process of evalutation' please contact Professor Jonas, Depar~ment, of History, at extension 6072. Professors Hans Freund, James Kenney, Karl Zimmermann, and chairing ·u, Manfred Jonas were appointed to serve on the committee. · recently as the associate ~ead. The new chair ~as endowed by John ('38) and Jane Wold. Robert Pfl,trick Reed is a visiting professor of history; who eaniled both master's and Ph.D. in American history from Cornell University. His teaching experience includes · · appointments at the University of Redlands, California State University, Hobart and William Smith Colleges. and Cornell. Tn tb~ ~.lf~th~m~ti<r,s Department, Shelton Perera joins the staff as a visiting assistant professor. He earned his Ph.D. at SUNY Albany, w.}lere he recently held the same · position. Three new faculty members · joined the \Mechanical Engineering Department this term. They are: Harvey I. Lyons, Associate Professor of .Mechanical Engineering, who comes to Union from Alfred -university; Subba Reddy, Assoc.iate Professor; who recently served as Department Chairman of Mechanical Engineering at SUNY Utica; and Frank Wicks, Visiting . Associate professor of Mechanical Engineering. who comes to Union after teaching psychology, was recenHy ,a nuclear engineering atRPI. · . teaching as:sistan t in· Ra:fika Merini and Maria psyc!)Q.pl1armacology and a · guest lectarer in medical Cecilia Ruiz are the newest psychology at the Uniformed members of the Modern Services.· University of .the Language Department. u lth s · · B h d . ,,nea c1ences m · . et es a; Professor Merini is a visiting MD. Her most recent research instructor of Frenc·h, pursuing ha8\been in the area of human a doctorate from SUNY stress and illness, Binghamton, while Professor . . environmental determinants of . Ruiz is an assist;mt p..rofessor behavior and health, and of Spanish, who specializes in psychoneuroimmunology~ medieval Spanish literature and contemporary Sp·anisfi. novelists. The Political Science Department gained a new faculty member in the person · · of Darius M. Rejali, a visiting The Physics Departnl.ent has· : •. assistant professor, whose been joined by Allen Anderson~ . teaching, and-research interests -a visiting instructor wbo has in~lude''early modem political been teaching as an adjunct th · lf prefessGr here ·since 1984 and eoty and :p •·tlosophies .of law since 1985· as an assistant and punishment. professor ,of engineering at Overall, it is an impressive · Fulton-Montgomery gtoup of·llew fac1,rlty; one that . is sure to bring new views of Cotnmun:i,ty College. Roset the world, our past and our •. Khosropeur has also joined the future to the campus. Just as depart-ment as a visiting the Class of 1992 allows the assista·nt professor, Her rest of the school to :receive a teaching experience irtclu.des fresh vie~ of the school and Hamilton College, Ce:triell campus,, so do these new University, UCLA and H:oward facuity members. Stop by and University. introduce yourself--you might Carol Silvia Weiss.e; a gain more than .a \hello\ from visiting instructor of theencourtter! ~-~· ~~============~================~' ERRATA This information appeared incorrectly in last week's· edition of Concordiensis. B~low appears the correct version; We apologize for any inconv~nience caused by this error. STATISTICS ON THE CLASS OF 1992 Class of 1992. Class Size Mal.e:Fe·male Ratio Number of Applications Applications: Male· Fe mare Applicants Accepted 528 50:50 3436\ 2134 1302 39o/o Cia•• of 1991 550 58:42 3062 2006 1056 \480/o Number of lnter\tiews: For the Class of 1991. there were 277s-on- campus interviews. For the Class of 1992 there were 3,800+ and it is predicted that 4,0.00+ interviews will be conducted for the Class of 1993, . C:ROSSTALX would' panel disc~~ sian on' institut.ing an honor code with an undergraduate honor committee at Union College: If you are· interested in the cross-talk please contact: to sponsor a Professor Tidmarch in the Political • Sc~ence Dept or Alysia x4074 i ! I ; I . .

. . ·' I' r CONCORDl_ENSJS September 29, 1988 Page 5 Talk· of the. Town Photos and Interviews by Susan Kersch \Why are all of the Talk of the' Town pk:tures mug shots.?\ Jay fr.ee'lanc;l '91 , \What · images of s ett- rnutilation and emo-t io rial deflation come to mlnd w.hen you hear the shrie:k of a rP:bbit?\ Mark Haughton. '89 FEATURES Concordiensis recently asked its editors \What should th_e Talk of the Town question be? \Are you a freshman or a six• year med?\ Dave Morrison '89 ' \What the heck does \Concordiensis\ mean?\ Mark T. Zimmerman '90 \Who took the roll of film that the real \Talk of the Town\ was on?\ fiona Shukri '89 ******************* ~ * ~ * ~ * Whalewatch By MARK HAUGH'J,\QN Features Editor Forty Unio~ College . students experienced a unique visit to the waters off Provincetown, MA. Approximately thitty different Whales were sighted, heard $d smelled in what proved to be a moving day. · It was a six. hour bus ride to Provincetown. We were bored yet eager, cramped and uncomfortable. Some - were even irritable, (believe it, or not). There was· an explosion of restless energy when -we were finally released from the bus. There was a liquor store across the street which quenchec;l the Friday night thirst. In packs of th.ree 'to five· we scouted the streets of Previncetown in search of just the right restaurant. Everyone appeared to be successful. It would be an ea:rly morning for all, so most found a suitable res.ting spot in our more than adequate hotel relatively early. At nine a small breakfast was had by most at a small Portuguese b~ery. There was a tep. knot breeze, and rough seas in Cape Cod bay. As most knew~ the ocean would be worse. Forewarned, we boarded Dolphin V in search of whales. It took approximately _one hour to reach the spot in which whales had previously been seen. There was little searching about two miles <Jff of the southeas~ shore of tile cape spouts from seve:tal species of whales were visible. By law Jwo whale watching vessels are not permitted to view the same whale(s) at oae time. When we reached tlte spot there were already two vessels :viewing th:e whales. However, it was little problem: for us considering the plethor~ (nice word) of whales in tile area. We first visited a pair of Humpbacks probably fifty feet long each. They were calm, composed and certainly gentle. They were massive. The entire boat was awe struck by their presence. Their speed through the water was deceptive. A whale might dive ten feet to the port of th~ boat and surface a football field away off to starboard. One of the first ol>servations made by everyone on the boat was the stench of the whales breath. This is caused not by what they eat but by parasites that inhabit tlte whales lungs. Remember that they are mammals. We all appreciated the clean, stiff breeze. We were fortunate enougll to witness two of the whales characteristic behaviors. At first the humpbacks were calmly out for an early mornirlg swim but because of the high concentta11on of tb.eir food source each quickly \Old Faithful\.ls Capped By LISA CH.ERA.NDE & STEVEN COLE Steam pipe work is. not a new sight on the Union College campus, but is is not a sigbt we expect to see when we returned back just a few weeks ago in balmy 80 degree ,weather. Upon return the collllilunity was greeted with a prov~rbial moat around the N ott Memorial, and grounds near Old Chapel. What are those clever diggers up, to? They are trying to eliminate the \Old Faithfnl\ .effect of yesteryear when the heating system. emulated Saratoga S-prings during the winter · months. As the ground swelled with muddy steam the college · was unnecessarily wasting energy, mo'ney and creating an obstacle course for pedestria11s. · The construction is supposed to 1lleviate the problem by installing new pipes from-Fo.~t to the Nott. The pipes in the Old Chapel area were s.o · cld ~that the school was .\Patching Patches\. according to Ken :Relyea, the Assistant Director of Campus. Operations. This week the maintenance crew will be insulating the pipes. 1'he entire project should be completed in two or three weeks in time for the return of the alumni on their Homecoming Weekend. de-yeloped an appetite. They, --tc * began to feed on small fish. ......,. ..t.. calLed sand eels. The \\ ,...- humpbacks like the Fin and -¥ * Minke llfe all baleen. These are ~ Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation Jt toothless whales. They feed by --t! · 712 Jackson Place, NW, Washington, DC 2006 * collecting small fish at some Telephone 202-395-4831 varying depth in the water -tc lt-- ~olumn in their' large pelican --t( Union College * like mouth. The upper, smaller k ......_ J ·aw o .. pens the net an. d the lower ~ . Uni?n College sophomores Interested in a career In government ~ ~- service at the federal .. state or local level are inVited to apply for a jaw retains the catch. During 'Y'- 1989 Harry s. Truman Schdlarshlp. Jt- this process many sea gulls bid k ......._ 11 . fi ~ Established by Congress in. 1975, the Hany S. Truman Scholarship ,...- attempts at CO ecting. lSh from k Foundation operates an ongoing educatlonai.Jscholarship program ..t. the mouth of the whale. We \J' (lestgr1ed to. provide opportunities ror outstanc!lng u.s. students w1U1 .....- watched one gull stay too_ long • ~:~~~-a! leadership ability lo prepare for careers in governmeal * for d.inJ1er and become locked in iC * the whales mouth to either In Aprll 1989, the foundation will award 105 Scholarships drown or be swalloWed in • nationally. The DEADLINE for all 1989 applications Js * ·· ~ 'h b' ~ Decemeber 1, 1989 ......_ preparation .~;or t e next 1te ~ . ..,.- The whale does not int~nd to - ~ Union College can nl)mlnate three students for the 1989 competition* eat the gulls. This feeding ..,..._ . . . . . . . . . . . k The Scholarship award covers expenses up to $7,000 per year for ..L process IS Called an Open l\ the junior. the senioF, and two years of graduate study. ..,.- mOuth lunge .. Wh~n it is over iC Jt the whale wrll dive to lunge .~ To be el!glabl~. a student must be a full-lline sophomore working ......_ again. Each scoop collects \\ toward or planning to pursue a baccalaureate degree. have a \B\ ..,.- thousands of the small fish .. average or equivalent, stand in the upper fourth of the class. and be * d . th . h. l ak . ' -~ a U.S. citizen or U.S. nallonal heading toward a career In government......_ an · . e w a e m es many \J' ,...- lunges each day. The sh~res of • Interested students should submit a letter of application, a * th .. e cape were the prim. ary • · statement of ca:feer plan$, a list of past public-service acUv!Hes or -,L_ feeding grounds of the whales i' oU1er leadership positions, a ,current traascript, and a 600-word ....- and are essential .to their ~ essay <;liscussJng a public policy issue of U1elr choice to . ........_ · ~ Prof. Charles 'Tidmarch. ..,.- existence. They have migrated -iC ........_ here On their way SOUth to the . . Truman Scholarship Faculty Representative ....... Caribbean for the winter and to iC 1 · Soc. Sci. 216. by Novemember 10. lt breed.- '!he whales ~orne. from ~ * many dtfferentloc~tionsm the.~*************. ****......._ north. In the Canbbean they '\l\ · · · · ~ will fast for three months and choose mates. Therefore, it is urgent that they feed heavily for their trip. Not long after seeing the _two humpbacks our guide from the Center for Marine Research _ pointed out a Fin crossing the bow from left to right. It . passed immediately inder the bqw displaying its characteristic gray and white swirls as it rolled .through the water. The Fin whale is . beautiful; and this one was big. .. Out guide estimated its length . at flfty feet. ·That was as close to a whale as we could possibly get without actually hitting it. The whales seemed to know just where we were . and which direction we were ·headed Soon the feeding process was widespread. Whale spouts sprung from the water in many · directions. In the distance a whale leaped completely out of ; the water; its massive body : displacing large quantities of water when gravity finally dragged it beneath the surface~ A nearby Minke whale swam quickly past us. The Minke Whales are known for their size and speed. They are the smallest of the baleen whales and consequently the fastest and most elusive. This one dove to port, went under the boat, and surfaced to starboard. At the height of the feeding approximately a hundred whi~ sided dolphins popped in and out of the water. They were explosiv~, powerful and graceful. A mother and her baby swam parallel to our boat to receive the ooh'sand.ah's ef the crowd. At the close of our visit with the whales a: humpback surfaced with a wide opened mouth, almost smiling, then after realigning its jaws, succumbed again to the deep. The Dolphin V left the whales as they found them while etching the hearts of the passengers. It is important to note that whale watching is a gamble; one which is often lost. These are endangered species. In fact the North Atlantic Right whale is down to an estimated 100 individuals. They are not expected to survive. A petition to act on the behalf of the whales by U.S. boycotts of certain export goods to those countries still slaughtering d1e whales was signed by most of the · watchers. Good feelings were · abundant.We fellow whale watchers thank the Biology ~ club for their organization, the Center for Marine Research for /their knowledge and skill, 1 Professor Butterstein for his .. assistance and most importantly we thank the whales. So when you are at the next fraternity gathering, dedicate a toast to the whales. SAVE THE WHALES!

Page 6 CONCORD18NSIS September 29,, 1988 . - FEATURES / \ The Adventures of the Food Rangers Adult ·children of Alcoholics· By WENDY HALPERIN & JOHN .JADiiON By LINDA FRYE CUTLER,. ACSW always looked for some way cope with cnsts. And they· around the problems of worked, Wi.thout them, the blaming the client. for· his child wo\lld have ''di,;;d\ in There has been .a growing psychopathology.·Psychiatrists some way. With them, the awareness in the mental health traditionally place blame t)n child survived. ·Fairly profession over the. past 10 brain chemistry alterations. predictably, some_ of the' years that some clusters of Psychoanalysts blamed the· following ·problems fallow problems. symptoms and .parents, social workers looked children· -of alcoholics into psychodynamics _ result not to environmental suess; adulthood. So you'.ce sick of West, low only from the individup.l's behaviorists to conditioned A skewed sense of what on cash and don't have a car. psychological world, but from responses, etc. Still, .the client is n.ormal.. In the fami.1y, What do you do? Well, A) you specific, on-going, traumatic had. serious emotional secrecy led. to a belief that could starve B) resort to crime situations in one's, family of problems--regardless ,of bow crisis situations and abusive or C) go to Geppetto's. origin. This is not necessarily he/she·got them. beh.avior were n<mnal. It was Personally, we .suggest the last surprising. Family -therapy has AEOAs also have serious normal for Father to yell -or choice. somewhat successfully problems. They have a great hit; it was normal to be always If you have never been to attempted to shift the onus of deal of psychic pain that other afraid; it was normal to listen Geppetto's don't let its outside psychopa!hology, from a people usually don't know to fights every night; normal appearance fool you. Inside one causal, individual ·perspective aboyt.. They, too, are caught in to have a parent who k:ep.: finds a pleasant, relaxing to a systemic one. Problems, repeating patterns of responses changing_ from nice to mean; atmosphere. This little att§Jllpted solutions and that leave them lonely, anxious normal to, h.ide out, hoping not hideaway can be described flS changes are seen as reliant on and depressed. However, these to be· noticed. It was normal to being \just like Grandma's.\ interpersonal family input. people are seen as having do things other 7 year olds After we wefe seated by the • Family therapists have been adapted and coped with an on;;: don't have to do, like listen to hostess we had time to view looking closely at what going family crisis- .. the crisis a d,runken.Iecture on getting a the wide selection of entrees · happened at home at the same of alcoholism. Their 95 instead of a 90 Oil' the next available, all of which were in time that the psychoanalytic symptoms and problems are - -~x;;unJ•t~s~h90l. our price range. John ordered people were studying trauma viewed with agreement (!) Later,. ACOAs often tolerate Veal Parmigiana accompanied and the behaviorists and among me.ntal health high levels, of crisis in their with a .side of spagheui while cognitive . people were professionals as having arisen lives--even need these crises to Wendy opted for the Fettucini · recognizing the power of in the first place as a functional feel normal Many also try to Alfredo. repeated, learned behavior. and adaptive behavioral function at levels that are The antic_ipation grew as we · Still,. the enormous natural response tp a chronic, superior and therefore· immune watched tray after tray of grassroots ,group ·therapy and traumatic situation. (The idea from criticism. delicious food passing us. After education movement for Adult of functionality is not new; the Secret y • A child in . an only a few short minutes our , Children · of Alcoholics agreement among professionals alcoholic family is trained to .salads arrived. They were large · (A CO As) is seen as .perhaps is.) In other words, the specific keep the outside world and even and filled with obviously fresh . ushering in: a new age for problems of the ACOA were each other fmm acknowledging vegetables. But one word of , psychotherapy. 'Therapists have original attempts to master o~ the truth. Family members warning, stay clear of the . :_: __ ...,....:::..:_..___.:_ ___ -.,. _____ __,_...._ _ __,...-,....,.,..~avoid the words \drunk;\ cheddar cheese dressing. Wendy . \passed out,\ ~d \alcoholic.\ was less than impressed with · Father protects Mother by this heavy mayonnaise calling her in sick at work. concoction. Son will help carry Father to When the meals finally bed. arrived we were both surprised As a grown\up however, the by the generous portions that ACOA continues to keep secret we received. Wendy's Fettucini . all his/her pain: insecurities, Alfredo was delicious, but a :fears and worries,.mistakes and little too heavy for her taste. _ failures cannot be openly and John, on the other hand; was · comfortably shared. Secrecy is impressed with the Veal ' a way of life. Parmigiana. It was not Psychic numbing. processed but rather, real strips CbiJdren in. alcoholic homes of tender veal. must learn to change moods Geppetto's is a great place to fast in order to · become ctine out with friends, a date or invisible to the dtunken parent your family. Whether you are . who -might tum on a child in the mood for a light snack . be/she ,noticed. Better 'to not or quick dinner Geppetto's has OLitlng Club Photo of the Week show you are angry or everything from pizza and On the descent of Mt. Colden, Steve Barrett and Kevin · frust:Fated--or even sad or scared. wings to steak and pasta. For Gardner pause for a reflective moment and a sweaty, \Help\ could consist of getting the price you pay and the embrace. (notice the trees killed by acid rain). screamed at, criticized or even Later, the ACOA h!U'dly ev~ feels· the~e emotions,. ~ardly stops to look. A life. of;cht~nic victimi,zation ot d,eprivation Jn1tyresult because if You don't know whit(: you feel• you d<m't :know what you need. and· you continue the previoll'sly f11nctional habits which were s.uccessful earlier. Feeling is replaced by thinking, analyzing and daydreaming. W11iting for the other shoe·. Children of alcoholics arm themselve,s against' the random. crises of family fights by S<>me .kind of mental preparedness, · a state of expectancy ac.companied by the knowledge that something bad can: happen at any minute. And it can. It did, This the child could trust: someone he loved would unpredictably tum ag-ainst or withdraw from him/her. The non:&-inking parent often withdraws from children out of an intense need to deal with his/her own frustration, fear or anger. The drin:ldng parent is subject to rapid chal}ges in mood and behavior. ACOAs have difficulty having fun, relaxing, doing nothing or even just living. They know too well that happiness can be replaced by abuse and they feel helpless to protect or defend themselves. Need for approval. Children inevitably blame themselves and think they were the cause of an alcoholic parent's rejection, criticism or withdrawal. They fear driving the parent even farther away. Tney fear for the nort-alcoholic paren~. watching that person's sadness, loneliness, helplessness and failure to fix the drinking, or even· abuse. Often they step in during adolescence to relieve that par~nt of family responsibilities, beconiing a pseudoparent themselves. There are many variations ·on this _ theme. the offshoot being that the child cannot reject the parents,. even in normal ways, witho11t feeliJ1_g anxiety and guilt. This leads to an· intense amount you receive it is 1------------------------------ .......... -beaten. definitely a bargain. For only ----=--------..--=::-\-\\\::=:-:===-==~/=::-------------------- $18.70 we received soda, coffee - -C~- 5 .- - ~,- E. P' continued on page 7 and two complete ditmers. All · · - • .. · in all Geppetto's gets a double Don't forget: \ ·_ . • , _ • • · .• _ thumbs-up. From Union; we are the Food Rangers. . Cycling Club at Union There is a meeting for all interested cyclists today Thursday, .Sept. 29'in ro?m 409in the College Center at 5:00pm. All cyclists welcome. PROMOTIONAL DAY is Thursday, October 6. Homecoming T -Shirts will debut in the :College Center · all day long, along with free • buttons and popcorn for everyone! The Collegiate Science and Technology Entry Program(C~ STEP) at Union College and Albany Medical College: is designed to assts.t undergraduate, graauate and medical students who are minorities traditionally· underrepresented or economically disadvantaged to complete their college training with stronger academic records and to ~ gain admission to. graduate and professional schools in the science or health professions. . WHATWEDO With employment in the science and health professions expected to grow faster tban average. C-STEP prepares students to meet the challenge with service provided i'n the following areas: - a six-week summer residential program with structured · pr.eliminary educational enrichment for future medical 'and graduate Students - an academic year r~tenaon program at Albany Medical College campus w~th weekly review sessions~ for require4 courses, tatoring, test-taking preparation, counseling ifld advisinl! on ~areers · ~ a series of. decelerated undergradaa.te courses on the Union College campus, and ....:. a· structured preparation and review course for the MCAT, DATandGRE. . · Other services provutea: include mini-cou:nes, worksbops· and field trips focusing on topics of interest to science and technology students, and job search strategies. WHYC-STEP? C-STEP, the Collegiate Science and Technology Entry Program, is an initiative of the New York State Department of Education. It was created to increase access to careers of science; technology, and health for eoon<>rnically disadvantaged students or 'members ()f groups traditionally underrepresented in higher education. - HOWTOAPPLY For :further information andlot. application to apply, call the C-STBP office at (518) 370-6404, or write to: . C-:STEP •· Union College Bailey Hall, Room 101 Schenectady, N.Y.1230S •

CONCORDIENSIS September 2!J,. 1988 Page 7 ' ' By MARl' HAUGHTON. Features Editor I wanted .to_write .my feelings down before they were lost. · This will ramble. much like :my . thoughts·did tonight It will be honest, I was not surprised to see the . rnan which presented this work to me. I say \to me\ because I .felt ,as ifl were the only one · that was listening. Jacob Holdt delivered the .opening in a soft tone. His au:ra was real, not doctored. I suspected that. the show to follow was .equally real. He introduced' the snow, and the typical low :mutmurs of the audience followed. Quiclcly, it was subdued. · It was not difficult for me to watch the slides. Nor did I doubt that this ·extensive poverty existed. I have never seen it. I don't have an overwhelming · desire · to understand it, unlike Jacob Holdt. However, I was glad to see the show. Even now I feel as if I have no right to address a ;~topic that I have been shelt~red_ from. I may still abandon· this if I feel that I ;breach too many boundaries of ignorance. I would hope that by being open with my thoughts that those who read this could relate to them. · At first I was angry that . ~ ·--,- . :. someone was trying to· mold my· thinkin.g. The idea of submitting to oppressian brought about my first wave of thot.Jghts that I wi:ll call the ' 1 dOn 1 t push this stuff on me\ phase, as if I were the cause of their misery. Then I tho11gllt that l knew better. I was not the caus~ but just a participant ' I was guilty by association • When this p'hase left me I never again felt guilty. Ac~ually I W;,iS surprised to see how non-.guilty I felt. I knew then that I was just as much a product of this society as they were~ I had a different niche to fill. Thank God.. Then I became the student; . seeking to know more about' tlte unfortunate. I became · thoroughly involved in the · existence of these people;. ·I wanted to know names, I wanted to see them suffering in their natural habitat, and I wanted to k:now what had 'been the cause of· the suffering. I thought of an article I had written for Ccncordiensis two years .ago. It was called Negative Eugenics. For what I had seen I thought that I had captured this conce_pt well It made sense that the youth became scarred by the hate that they grow into. It made sense · that it was hereditary, and The.Medieval Faire at the ' Cathedral of All Saints · Bleating sheep, flaming swords, magic · rings and roasting meats will be among the sounds, sights; and smells at the Medieval Faire at the Cathedral of All Saints, South Swan at Elk Street, Albany, on Friday, October 14 from 4-9 and Saturday, October 15 from 10-5. Fairgoers will mingle with singers, dancers. artisans and vendors in this annual re- creation of a ptatket day of the Middle Ages. Unlike other~ medieval and renaissance fairs, tltis is held right in the Gothic nave of the Cathedral as it might originally have been. Admission will be $3.50 for adul~, $2.50 for senior citizens Welcome to Whitaker House Mort.~Fri. 2-4:30 Stl.n.-Thurs.7-10 370-6058 and students 12 and up, and $1 . for children 3-12. Parking is free after office hours and on . Saturday at the state lot on Elk Street at S. Swan. On Friday night, by advance reservation, a limited number of participants at a medieval meal will help to solve a murder with a Welsh theme \Murder at ~lantwit Abbey.\ On Saturday, a boy bishop will be installed in a solemn prQCession and rite according to the custom at medi~val choir schools. Both snacks and full meals · will be available on both days and tours of the Cathedral will be conducted every half hour. I No appoi~tment necessary unavoidable. Then I lost interest. I felt that I had heard' enough · and that when intermission came I would leave unscarred myself. Jacob Holdt had told me that I would be, oppressed,. well forget that I was -beyond the oppression for this was a learning· .experience. I was not wrong; in fact I teamed When I left the show I avoided conversation with anyone. I did not want to be asked how I felt or how 1 thought. I really wanted to decide alone. People I knew became the people that I least wanted to interact with. I did not want to walk out. looking sorry for· the people in the show, nor did I want to look hurt. But I was not happy and I · think a stem expression kept most of my interaction away. So I ended up here writing about my feelings still trying to decide whether or not I had the right or the nerve to allow this to go to print. Then I realized that I was not thinking about the suffering at aH but instead about myself. Now I feel selfis4, actually sorry for myself for having to deal with these statements about poverty atld injustice, Life is unfair, right? .... {FEATURES T\~aRG'~ NDTIIiiVCJo t:.J'I(If t\ntf IASrG OF A J<;ID I!WTtiJr,- .4 . H E.·l!.!lliG'... ei\.11.. I • . ~ Children of Al'caholics ••• Continued from page 6 need to protect themselves by not annoying people. Later, this pattern leads to social isolation and damaged self- esteem. Low se If- este.e m. Children qf alcoholics are more focused on important others in their family than they are on . themselves. \Reading\ reactions and moods are essential if they are to perform along appropriate lines. If Mother is \asleep\ after school, Son will have to stay home and watch. Younger Sister and the ballgame is off for today, and maybe tomorrow. If Fa.tller comes home ill a bad moOO., Daughter will turn off the rv amd slip quietly into the kitchen to help Mo'ther with dinner. Bllf i.n all this reactiveness to unpredictable others, there is little room f<Jr a secure sense of self or a growing knowledge and ·The Greatest Action Anyon·e Can Take experimentation as an individua'l self. ·Self-image is sometimes distorted; especially body image. Later, amid the successes an ACOA e:xperiences there is a lingering emptiness and doubt about his worth and whether she is good enough. There are many other possible consequences of ltaving grown ILP with one or more alcoholics in the family, 110t the least <>f which is an illcreased risk t{) the ACOA to also become alcoholic. By JANE llACKETT SP AA (Students for Political Awareness and Action) would . ! like the students of Union College to be aware of one astounding fact. Only one our of every five people between the ages of 18 and 25 is registered to vote. One of the more startling aspects of this fact is that 70,000,000 young • people who have their entire futllfe ahead of them are not playing a role in shaping the . government policies that they will have to live under. As registered voters our opinions . are heard on job creation, scholarships, finanCial aid~ health care, minimum wage, taxation, draft registration, crime and safety, and much more. The upcoming residential election is especially vital, as the winner will either continue ot turn away from the economic, domestic, and international trends of the past eight years. Whichever candidate becomes elected will be shaping the taxes, the job markei:, and housing possibilities we will face upon graduation. Voting is a chance to be heard and counted. Together we can shape the kind of opportunities we want created in the future. If you do not believe that an individual vote counts, think about these facts. One vote: Decided that Americans speak English rather than German. (1776) Kept Aaron Burr;, later charged with treason, from becoming President ( 1800) Made Texas a part of the United States. (1845) Saved President Andrew Johnson from removal from office. (1868). Admitted California, Idaho~ and Oregon to the Union. (1850, 1859, 1889, 1890) A more recent account of how an individual vote does count is the Presidential election where I ohn F. Kennedy won by an average of less than one vote per election district., The Counseling Center is <>ffering a six-week Sllpport/eclucation group for · ACOAs. An organizational 1 meeting will be held at 11:00 . a.m. Friday, Sept. 30 in I . Silliman Hall, 3rd Floor. .[f :you. can't attend the meeting, , ln1t still wollld like to joi11, call the Counseling Center at 370-6161. Are you interested. ill the Power of· the Supreme Court t() Affect th Rights of Each Individual'! If you missed the League of Women Voters on Wednesday in the College Center; you can . ,!·1 call 1-800-FOR-VOTES or i !I contact any SPAA member for more information on how to register. The registration deadlilne for the upcoming November election is October !Does the Conservative slant ()f . : · the U.S. Legal s:ystem interest · you? If so, join us at Albany Law School for an Open Forum about the upcoming Rehearsing By the Supreme Court of tb.e landmark Runyon -vs. McLeary Case ~r 1968. Thursday, Oct. 6 at 4 p.m. : Sp>nsored by the National Lawyers (lllid. 11. Register, vote and b.e heard. Your vote counts. S~_niors interested in running for Senior Represent~ve to the Studen f Forum ... Petitions are available in the Student Activities Office. The election for one Senior Representative will be held Friday, Sept. 30, 1988 from 9-4 in the College Center. ·

Page 8. CONCORDIENSIS September 29~ 1988 CA~EE~ FESTIVAL Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. Central Hudson Gas & Electric Co. Edscalional :Reso\urce Group NY State Electri.c & Gas Co~ Living Resources Corp. Albany Medical Cetne.r Pfizer, Inc. Metropolitan Life Northwestern Mutual Wyeth.,Aye:rst Labs Continental Tefephone Naval Under\1\iater Systems • Beekman Assoc. -· Empire Blue Cross & Blue Shield !! Peace Corps. Northeast Savings Nestle' Foods NCR Corp. Merrell Dow Marine Midland ·IBM Gordon Day Assoc. FBI . General Dynamics Con Ed AT&T Bell Labs Northeastern The Ad C.lub Dear Student: As you begin the academic year, many of you will turn your. tho.ughts towards the future. Seni·ors will begin a ti-me- consuming job search and underclassmen will ·also beg]n to evaluate their career optioli·s. · The Union College Career Festival is a golden opportunity tor all students to speak personally with professionals from a variety of firms about potential career paths. and to make valuable contacts within the job market The participants of the 198'8 Career Festival have been carefully selected. They encompass a variety of . disciplines ranging from computer technology to · advertising. This page includes a list of aH the representatives attending the event this year. We hope that you, as students, will take advantage of this opportunity and utilize the 1988 Career Festival as an essential tool in building your futures. Sincerely,, The Career Development Center Our Town TV Albany-Law .Clarkson Columbia Dartmouth Hofstra L.aw NYU SUNY .Albany Binghamton Sy·racuse Union College Widener Law Prudential ClA Norstar Bank Prentice Hall Legal & Financial Services Sterling Winthrop NY State Assembly Western New England Case Western Reserve Law NY State Commission on Cable TV Woodrow Wilson Schenectady Trust Co. Schenectady Municipal Housing Authority-- Schenectady Dept. .of Engineering ·, Statewide Youth Advocacy . ' . Reside~tial Opportunities; Jnc. NY State Dept. of Transport. WE[)~ES[)A )', OCTO~E~ (ith ~2-ti.pm at the FIEL.[) tlOUSE • r

j CONCORDIENSJS September 29, 1988 Page 9 --- --- --'--·---...---- SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY My· Summer Six Thousand Mll,es.-Fro.m Home ' Finally, after being awake for twenty- four hours I arrived in Schene<;tady. Th~ fust .thiug that impressed me was. the campus. lt was 'love at first · sight.' 1'he parks with the birds .. sq uil'rels and flowers, the old and -modem buildings are beautiful. I joined the High Energy Physics Group led by ,Pro'f. Laszlo Baksay. and Prof. Richud. Magahi~. I did computer wprk and continued the research into a n~w type .of · particle detector, the Double Sense Wire Cun:ent Division Drift Chamber. I tbink it is really great that undergraduate students at Union have the possibility to do experimental res~arch. This is a very important part of the education of scientists. In the Eotvos University in Budapest, where! am a phu.sics major and the emphasis is on· theory, so we have to take more courses. Now that I came here I could enjoy the benefits of both education systems. Although ther~ were not too many students on the campus during the summer, I still amde a lot of fri~nds. !-will never forget the motorboating on the. Lake George with Marc Webster, the 'tunneling' with Hector Leon and the others, the evenings . stretching nearly till dawn that I spent w)th Wanseob or .Ed· Lin talkiq.g about studentS, education, etc. in different countries. . At the end of August we left for Florida with a 12 years ol<l Ford,. Pinto ... We. were not quite sure that Pinto 'could do it, but somehow if worked. First it broke down in the middle of Manhattan, and later broke down several times in various places~ The ~cat was rather tight fpr_ four people to sleep in BIOLOGY N.EWS. '\, . .. . Whale ·watch·_ · · '88 Report 22 Humpback Whales 2 Fin Whales 3-Minke Whales 220-250 White-sided Dolphins 46 Excited Union, Whale Watchers For . the Biol-ogy Club .Prof. George Butter stein . UNION COLLEGE THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT PROF. \PEHR TQBIESSEN UNION COLLEGE \THE FORESTS, FISHERIES and FO~KS of ALA§KA\ ,WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1988 4:40P.M. ·Room BH 106 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 ·1 :. Marine Studies Term Abroad Spring Term Bermuda ·cepe ~cod Shooner Exed.ition Gulf of Maine ' Information MfG - Tues. Oct. 11 7:30PM ~ s.s. 012 Applications -Available in Terms Abroad Office or Contact: Profs. Kaplan, B. Boyer or P. Weiss -Applications are due in Terms Abroad OfficebyWed., Oct. 19 (sometimes, especially at night even the driver was sleeping ... ), but the experience we got was worth everything. Finally we traveled around half of the U.S.A. We were in New Orleans, Dallas, El Paso, Flagstaff, Grand Canyon and Chicago. I would Hke ~hank Union College and especially the members of the High Energy Physics Grou.p for malting this unforgettable summer experience possible. \Our problem, on~ solar energy is in operation, is to 4ind a way to have the citizens whose homes are Ilea ted by the sun contitiue to pay us every month.\ . The deadline for proposals for :the Inter,national Education Foundation in two cate·gories - student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Monday, October 3rd. Proposals for student-initiated research projects. must have the written approval of a faculty ad-visor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (SlOO~ Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College Community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit .them to the same office on forms available. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (SlOO). .. · · ~uidelines with respect to th,? I.E.F. are available in the Dean.'s Office. ' Inquiries about I.E.F ., the gUidelines, or the proposal deadline should he directed to Dean Terry Weiner, Acting Dean of Faculty. When :preparing budgets,. please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transpo:r;ation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students . who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have· already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE The Sul,lcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications are available in Dean Weiner's O.ffice (8100-S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is Monday, October 3rd. Questions concerning the faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that :per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. 'Transportation costs should also reflect the be.st rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the ptopos·al must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research · · Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncilon Research and Grants. ' An ·ad hoc committee has been f o rm e d to . co n s ide r t h e · ~en u rabi I ity of ... _Prof ... Lar{y . Me-G a hey of the Chemistry Department. The Com·mittee invites anyone who would like to I pr\esent either oral or written testirrony·, bearing on Prof. · McGahey's teaching, research or college service, to contact any · committee member: Profs. Bruce : Reynolds, Chair (Economics; i extens~on 6217); Janet Ander~on 1 (Ch~mastry); Yu Chang {Electncal 1 Engtneenng).; Seth Greenberg I (Psycholog-y). PHYSICS COLLOQUIU,M \High Pressure Experimentation- Windows on Planetary lllter.iors\ Professor Geroge H Shaw Department of Geology Union College September 30,1988 Steinmetz Hall, Room 106 3:45 pm Refreshmen1s will be served beginnillg at 3:3opm ALL ARE WELCOME!

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS September 29, 1988 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES 'Hitting the Town' . G In .·.·reec.e By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS Religion Breaks From Tradition i,n Italy There is .a saying irt Greece that most typifies the prevailing night life mentality: ,;The night begins at midnight.\ Rich or poor, the above statement echoes within every echelon of society. But one may justly ask, \What does stratification have to do with enjoying one's night?\ In Greece, where yau party reflects what element of society you represent. Though this. statement mew seem peculiar and awkward at first, it is without doubt a reality which exists in every nation. By LAURA CAL VI \There is no religion any m<Jre!\ In Italy, you often hear this expression from people wlio disapprove of this dunging society that rejects tradition. It seems very StJI]lrising to see how linked religion and tradition are in .~is most common expression. Moreover, Italians have come t() assume that these two collcepts can substitute for one another. The substitution has happened because this religion has been the same for more than ninety percent of the Italian population and for almost two thousand years. Roman Catholicism has played a crucial role in the history of the country. It was the official religion of the riiost influential state in the Italian peninsula. The Pope was one of the most powerful monarchs of the. known world as well. Wllenever the nation had looked for its identity, whether as a monarchy or a republic, religion had always been the most prominent factor. Italy's most vehement patriot and miaister once said: \Free ch:urch in a free State.\ 1'lle nation certainly became independent, but it was only vezy recently that Catholicism lost the privilege of bein2 Italy's official religion. A C(}uple of years ago, Prime Mi11ister Bettina Craxi and a representative of the Vatican signed an official agreement stating that the notion of a religion of state no longer belonged in the Italian co11stitution. However, this change did not have much effect on the role played by the Church. Long ag<>. the moral standings and doctrine of the Roman Catholic Cltu:rch were accepted as part of everyday life. They have been part of Italian tradition for a long time and. they became the country's cultural back;ground. Today, this identity is so· str-<>ngly felt that for some pe()ple, religion and tradition are hard to differentiate. Th~refore, for these individuals, rejecting tradition means rejecting religion. A consequence of this attitude was that atheism, the most popular alternative to Catholicism,. spread in some areas of Italy where the Pontificate State had properties. In ·response to this crisiS; the Church changed after the second Vatican Council, led by Pope Jolin XXIII, who understood the problems that arose in Italian contemporary society. The Church is now trying to move away from its traditional role. Religion should not be forced on a nation. It is a belief and should therefore be the consequence of a personal choice. By renouncing to its privilege cf religion of state, the Catholic Church is getting a chance to break from tradition. This shift will primarily attract the young generation who considers the freedom of choice as a key issue in religion. Many of you, I am .sure, depict the s tereotypic Greek as one who sits in the local . tavern, sips on his ouzo, plays with a \koboloi\ in one hand while in the other he indulges in a strong cigarette. Times, however, have changed and the cities, towns and villages have undergone such a metamorphosis that our so- called attempts to modemize or become more westernized have led to negative extremes of hyper-moderni~ation and westemization. Nevertheless, the festive nature of the Gree:k of all ages still remains. The planning of the night begins around eight. For the girls who have fixed dates, This Week Wor.Id • Ill the By NICOLAS BOCH Source: The Wall Street Journal (09/20-09/26) Poland: The resignation of Prime minister Zbigniew Messner and alll9 members ofhis cabinet was announced to Warsaw's parliament, which has blamed the government for failing t~ effectively . implement Poland's program of eco?o~c chan_ges. l'Srael: Israel launched a test satellite mto orb1t that reportedly carried surveillance equipment to m<?nitor its Arab enemies. Israel has become the eighth nation to palee a satellite into space. . . . Soviet Union: Moscow imposed a curfew 1n a disputed region following a. wave of _violence. the · • official Tass news agency said the Nagomo-Karab.kh territory has been placed on \special status,\ with curfews imposed on the regional capital o'f Stepanakert and a district of Azerbaijan just outside the area. Japan: Crown Prince Akihito has assumed ~l ~is father's duties while 87 -year-old Emperor Hiroh1to remains bedridden with a serious illness. Thousands of pilgrims gathered outside the imperial Palace in Tokyo. . . . . . · Lebanon: Gemayel named an mterun regtme as factional fighting flared. The Lebanese president, minutes before his term expired, appointed a six:~ ·member military government, with anny conunander Gen. Michel Aoun as prime minister. PLANNING MEETING FOR THE ANNUAL OXFAM FAST Bring Wed .. , 10/5, 6 PM, CC 204 . Your Dinner in from the Dining Room or Brown- bag it. however, preparation with the . c·olorful wings, .as they tty to hair salon and the boutiques -of lure weaitP.y yaung h~s bands- Kolonaki start early ~n the to-be. The popular ~nks are morning. The evening' begins vodk~ Seven-Up, whiskey; .and with either dinner theater or a most af all, champagne. . . movie. Otherwi~e, tne 'cars As the time ar~proaches 2;30 start . moving from the a.m. the pe~ple :start to depart - driveways at around 12:30 a.m. from . their centres of By 1:00 a.m. everybody is entertam~.ent. Others ·go where he should be; the worker h?rne, wh1le others· ~eek a js in his local tavern, the different n~st to slee:P !n. T~e people of new money are in the worker wrll 1eave wtth h1s (}reek night clubs breaking S~oda,. the fat wealt~y Gree~ hundreds of plates and \raining\ with h~s Mercedes- .. Vlaxos th:e singers with their crisp collectton, and pf cours! th; dollar bills and the member of the 'better cl:tqu~ fas·hionable, the Westerners, will drive o~f like·~· m~mac tn tb.e \better'' clique is at the Acropolls 500, In ·?ts black Papagaio, the \in\ place to be. 325 BMW convertible. By. The worker win feast himself 4:00 e~eryone,. even the lucky in songs of the proletariat as o!les, ts tuck~d away .. The his mind becames numb from v1brant and roarmg hours of the t1i.e overwhelming alcohol. country are now cov:e~ed by a Unfortunately, only then does b~a11ket of tranquthty and he enter into his utopia. The s1l~nce. Wh.o would ever fat wealthy Greek, which has beheve that JUSt a couple of come from the \new world\ hour~ ago the whole. country with dollars and dollars, will be w~s m a st~te of P~ty? In the dancing his heart out on the mtds_t .of th~s .seremty, ~e fi!st table,. while proclaiming call ~shear~; the mommg bud 11 Viva, Papandreou!!\ as the b.eg1n_s hts op_era, thus Prime Minister himself sits at stgnahng the breaking of dawn; a nearby table with his The workman's heavy boots are mistress consuminu his share heard as he gets ready to le~ve of alcoh~l and coll~ting some for work. The young executr':e dollars so as to decrease the is awakened by the calls of .h1s country's deficit. And last but Philippine .and/or Turkish not least, the girls of the maid, for h~s freshly b&~ed \better\ clique walk around in chocolate crmssants are getting · the .. in\ clubs like peacocks, cold. And last ~ut.not leilst, tt:te extending and, \wiggling\ their fat we~ thy socultst Greek sull sleeps. LAN:GUAGE TABLES FRENCH-· Monday 12:45-1:45 SPANISH- Tuesday 11:45-12:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN-· Wednesday 12:45-1 :45 ITALIAN-· Thursday 11:45-12:45 JAPANESE-Monday 12:45-1:45 All Language Tables will be in the College Center Uppefclassmen's Dining Hall. Anyone not on t~e ~eal . plan can buy lunch downstairs in the Pub an1d bnng it up · or ''brown-bag\ .it. ISU TABLE Friday 12:30 to 1 :30 The Department of Political Scien.ce in conjunction with Political Science 48 (East European Politics & · Justice) Presents: 11 The c.on.fession II Starring Yves M ontand in the College Center Auditorium Tuesday, October 4th 7:00 pm '.Frencli '.Fi{m Vivement dimarnche/CtJnjidentially Yours - Francois Trujfaut Monday, October 3rd 7:30p.m. in Mobile Lounge ( 406) in College Center ....... SPONSORED BY FRENCH CLUB - '

' • C()NCORDIENSIS September· 29, 1988 Page 11 .. INTE-RNATIONAL F-EATURES LyriC Poetry to Be Re.ad at Union Portrait of the Week: C·atharin:e Tho,mpson The· Modern languages Department is sponsoring a lecture on Wednesday,. October 5 at 4:30 .p.m.. by Anatoly Naiman · entitled: \Reminiscences of Anna Akhmatova.\ The lecture will take. place in the Music Room of Schaffer Library. Anatoly Naiman is ·a Soviet poet, translator and essayist currently on a one-month visit to the United States through the invitation of' Wellesley C0llege. He is known in the Soviet Union for his translations of French medieval poetry (Songs of· the . Troubadours. 1979·; Flamenka, 198\3). A native of Leningrad, Naiman has spent the last 20 years in Moscow. Trained as an engineer, he became a protesstonal translator--\out of necessity,\ says his good friend the poet Iosif Brodsky--and began writing poetry while still a student at the Technical Institute. During the 1960s Anatoly Naiman belonged to the ·so-called \Leningrad school\ of poe tty which lasted roughly from1960 to 1970 .and comprised a total of four talented young poets, ainong' them Naiman and the now Nobel Laureat Iosif Brodsky. Their mentor ·and idol was Anna Ak:hmatov~.. one of the greatest Russian poet$ of this By NICOLAS ]lOCH centtJry, Akhmatova referred to . Every year, Union organi~es her young proteges as th~ . , , an exchange program with \magic choir,\ and it is during I York, England. It usually that period, from the early 60s · ·· involves six students from until Ak:hmatova 1 s death in · _! both countries. Catharine · 1966~ that Anatoly Naiman •- Thompson, 19, js one of this was her literary secretary. 1 year's British students. She Brod:sk.y describes Naiman as ::will be staying here for one a lydc poet and a: highly :1 term. · taLented crafts man whose · America has .always been her ·poetry is \predominantly :~principal interest. When meditative-eligiac in tone, •: Catharine was still in high shunning open pathos and · .· .school she became vety fond of often colored by sardonic ! the 1960s. It was tile heroic irony.'' Ifowev:er, for all . time of John F. Kennedy and practical purposes, ;Naiman's .· the first man on the moon. ·poems remain unknown in the , : This peried symbolized a way Soviet Union and .exist mainly •, of life .and charm thatCatharine · in manuscript form. At the end · .greatly .enjoys. of this year. the American When she entered college, publishing house \Hermitage\ ·. she decided that her major . (New Jersey) will come out • would-be American Studies. with the first collection of . She went to St. John's College Naiman's poetry for which . ; in York mainly because of its Iosif Brodsky wrote the . 1 exchange program with Union. afterword. It is noteworthy that · She has studied American almost simultaneously, in politics ·as well as the history 1989, on the one-hundredth . and the culture of this country. anniversary of Anna Here at Union, she is currently Akhmatova's birth, Novyi taking classes in contemporary mir, the ·well known. Soviet • • American politics, electoral literary publication, is . : politics and the Mexican scheduled to publish Naiman's history. A phone survey will memoirs about Akhmatova and . ·be done in her efectoral politics her literary circle of the 1960s. ; course~ She thinks it is a great It is on these memoirs that Mr. · way to approach the .subject, Naiman's October 5 lectu.Te b1,1t that it would never be done will be based. Jn England. By AIME SIMON How do you feel about tfie '88 Olympic games in Seoul? .Jolin Ya·ger-The Olympiss this year are interesting, but they are overcovered. Having a camera pointing at ·everyone all the time detracts from the overall excitement of the games. Kevin Honikel· (90') - I think that the summer Olympics this year have been successful in general and I was very impressed with the opening ceremonies. I feel-however, that the threat of possible terrorisrp and the resulting military presence has cast a dark shadow over the games. Wilbur RankinM (91 ') - Eric Fefferman (90') - It seems to be running smoothly - There is great SportSman$hip between athletes from different countries. There is good TV coverage. Yet, · • they should be held in August when the summer really lives. Tim Hl!dynch- (90') - The Olympics are greatt' It gives me a good reason to blow off werk! Paul J. Levine- (89') - As. an ideal, the Olympics are commendable. However, the political . r~fications detract from the true essence of the games. Maurice J. Kauff. (90') -The commies are killing us! \ Chris Sheridan• (89')- I think the AIIleric~ swim team should wear white-suits. • Dave Webb· (89') -Why Sit in the ring to protest? I sugg~st to the Korean natienal team that they stage a _full scale hunger strike ... until they become the Ethiopian national team. -- At St. Jehn's College, Cathanne lives on the campus just like llere. Actu~lly, her room is currently occupied ·by· one of tile American exchange students_ She enjoys life on campus ·so much that she almost 11ever goes home during the course of the year, even though her home in Birmingtum is only two and a half hours aw~y from Y otk. \ had to carry an 11mbrella every time it rained they would have no blood left in their hands. C~tharine finds York a great town to study in. It is q~Iiet · comprued to Birmingham, her hometown, which is the second largest city in England. As well, there are enough pubs in the area to try a different one every night of the year! Not bad for a relatively small town. Those on the River Ouse attract a lot of people to their lovely location. Moreover, York: is a town that welcomes many Americans, since many colleges in the United States have exchange programs with St. John's. Catharine met various \Yanks\ (U.S. students} and she noticed that small groups usually mix better with the local population. Her experience in America started three weeks ago in Schenectady. It has not been the glamerous life she expected when thinking about the United States while in England. Catharine realizes that Schenectady represents a better picture of American life than a Over the summer, she 1 larger city would. Being in a worked in a re'staurant near her small town allows her to more school. Tile place was packed closely analyze the cultural and with American tourists,.. as social life. She encounters many visit her college town at slight culture shock with the that time of the year. They language problem. She still were easily recognizable by feels like a foreigner, though their cbecked pants and the sbe speaks English fluently. bright colors of their shirts. As The other day at the Mohawk well, most of them were Deli she asked for twenty wearing baseball caps and cigarettes. The guy at the carrying heavy cameras on thei· · countvr started to pick up chests.\ The funny thing she twenty packs. These are the noticed was that they were all sort of things to expect when · asking her for tbe same experiencing culture shock. directions, as if they Catharine hopes to live and instinctively knew what to see. learn a lot of exciting things When it was raining, the only while staying at Union. The umbrellas that co111d be seen first article she wrote was were tllose of the American printed on the front page of last tourists. York inhabitants week's Concordiensis. And know onlv too well that if they its j~st a heg~nning:... Gala Glasnost Evening On October 3rd the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Corporation announces a Gala Fund Raiser. The night will feature a concert by the Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra under the direction of Russian born Semyon Bychkov at 8:00 p.m. The Zakuski Buffet featuring Russian Hors D'Oeuvres will take place from 5:30-7:30 p.m .. in the lobby. For more information. call the Troy Music Box office at (518) 273-0038. LET ME WIN, Please join us for Friday Night Dinner folloiv?d by a talk witJ Professor Barbanel of the Mathematics Department on his recent sabbatical in Israel BUT IF I CANNOT WIN, LET ME BE BRAVE IN THE ATIEMPT. ,· Friday, September 30 • 6:00 p.m. dinner; 7:00 speaker at the Kosher Kitchen Call Ira for info. ext. 6820 or 6677 ***If you want to eat dinner firing your meal cards with you**:+ Come·ce{e6rate Simliai 'l'orafi l with the JSU on Monday, October 3rd- for info call Dara or Lisa ext. 6929 . - Circle K Is sponsoring the opening ceremon - les for the Special Olympics October 7, 1988 7-9 pm ln the fieldhouse.

·Page 12 CONCORDIENS.IS September 29, 1988 r I ----~-------·Founded al Union College 1877 _,_....._..,. __ _,_ ..... ..,...\ Tolerance Not Ellough Upion and Holidays-- Like·Oil and Water Jacob Holdt, the Danish photographer who brought his presentation \American Pictures\ to campus · · Moday evening, claims that Americans are raised to · be racists. If he ~s correct, then we have our work cut out for us. To the Editor: Holdt asks us to examine our own biases and to overcome our racist tendencies. Certainly there can · • be· no better environment to do this than an academic one. Seldom will we encounter as ideal an opportunity to challenge our preconceptions, exchange ideas, and learn from others as we do every day in college. Ever since I came to Union College last year I have been very disturbed with the administration here. It seems odd that the students do not even know who to speak to if tllere is a problem with the way things are run here. It is very upsetting to think that the only way to express an opinion around here is to wiite to the Concordiensis. I was very agitated by the way this year's schedule was planned and as a matter of fact last year's too. When I left Union last year I was under the The college is working hard to promote cultural diversity in its student body. There are students from many different cultural, economic, and ethnic backgrounds at Union. We need no longer take a term abroad to learn about other countries; for we have many International Students in our classrooms, dining halls, and dormitories. We must learn not only to \take advantage\ of their knowledge, but to actively strive to realize and break down our own prejudices. Of couse we stand to gain personally · from this, but its effe9ts could be felt on the campus community as a whole. Holdt believes that awareness of racism and prejudice is the· first step towards fighting them. Feelings of guilt and helplessness will not change anything. Don't be frightened into inertia, and don't be afraid to ·acknowledge prejudice when it arises. Awareness may be the only way we have to combat it. We ask you not only to. be more tolerant and open,. but also to not ignore the reality that Holdt presents. Prejudice is prevalent in America .. . impression that classes were starting on Wednesday, · -September 7. It was only when I arrived that I found out thai: classes were statting on Thursday, Now you migbt ask why I am making a big deal over this. Well it is clearly simple-- there are many students here that do not live in the northeast. I for one am from Florida and as anyone knows travel arrangements for this time of the year must be made in advance. I do not even think ·the school cares or· thought about those people living far away from this area. My friends and I now have to change our travel plans because the school for whatever reason . .could not notify its students over the summer. Even more upsetting, is the re as,on for . the change. Supposedly .the fact~lty wanted · labor day off and tllat is when the schedule was alteted. Now to me it seems odd .that after havin.g three mon.ti)s off they wmted an extra day. In my eyes it seems that the faculty can :llave. a day off when ever they want, yet if we d~cid.e to take a day off we can ~t have it legally. A speCific example I llave has to do witb. the recent Jewish holidays. ], did not attel1d classes on. these days because my religiotl means a lot to- me .. B11t while I was observing these llolidays, in the back of my llliBd I was\' thinking about all the work I had to . do for missing cl~s. This work load totally affects <>ne's observance ()fa holiday and almost makes it as though there was never .a 1\oliday or IJetter yet that religion does not. even exist. The one tiring that I cannot understand is that at· almost every other school in the country the stttde11ts are off for most religious l!Olidays and those which. are llationally Qbserve. I thpught ~ollege was supposed to be a. tirne when one grows up and learns about different people C!n<i cultures. lnstead last year w. 11en it was Wasllington's Birtbday, Martin Lritller King Day, or Memorial Day we; t.ts students, attended class. I felt that instead of my · horiz(iJnS being expa:nded I was · losi11g some of my patriotism for our country. 1he c<>ll~ge by not giving us tbese d~ys off is · making it seem as though these ~olidays mean nothing and · tbere is nc reason for observing them. I strongly_ feel that the sch.ool is totally wrong with this attitude, Last year 1 was told by a member of tlte college community that the reason we do ilot get these days off is beca11se we are on a. trimester systell). Now to. me that is just a lame excuse tllat the college is using to cover up for their lack of proper planning. . Looldng again at our $Chedule, this year spri.ng l)reak ends on Easter Sunday. I find this upsetting even though 1 do not observe the holiday. Why should students .have to travel on this family~holiday? Now maybe to the faculty it does .not make a difference because they five locally, but to same stud.ents it does.. I would appreciate it if the cofle,ge would think more logically ·when planning the sc11ool year in tile future. I also feel tha:t the students should have someone they could talk to about their eancems and that we shou]d be able to vote in matters that affect our futtile. If there is someone that is · · ava:ilabale to speak with, can you please le~ me· and the rest of the college community know who yo11 are. · ~ S:cott Weisberg '91 Learn To Earn? Read News ·Analysis Every Week Page Two Is pre-professionalism running rampant at Union? The mad rush is already on for recommendations, job interviews, applications, resumes ... Frenzied seniors are anxiously awaiting test dates for the GMATs, MCATs, and LSATs. The Career Development Center is already knee-deep in work with upperclassmen taking advantage of its resources. Evidence at Union offers a resounding \yes.\ But the question that really needs to be asked is \Is pre-professionalism harmful?\ The situation here is not unique to Union's confines. And although this alone does not make pre-professionalism 'acceptable,' one must recognize this fact as significant in the search for an answer to the second question. From the student's point of view (however short range his view might be), pre- professionalism is not harmful; this can be inferred from the trend across the country on college campuses. Critics of pre-professionalism draw attention to its supposed ·conflict of interests with higher institutions of education, primarily liberal arts colleges. The ideals of these colleges and universities push the value of a classical education: education as an end in itself. While the beauty of this philosophy must be appreciated and remembered, the harsh reality is that that alone is wrong. Pre-professionalism need not be detrimental to the liberal arts framework. Concern for a constructive profession after college and the honored ideals of education can be complements. Each ta.Ken alone can be harmful. Fair shares of each can be rewarding. · Is there an issue yot+ are concerned . about on campus? Then ... come to the AWARE meeting. Monday at 2:00 in the career development center Schaffer Library will hold a booksale on the following dates: Fall Term September 28 October 19 November9 No sale in December Winter· Term January 18 February 15 S.prlng Term March 29 Aprii2El May24 The sale will run from . 12:00-4:00 pm on each' Of these days in · the . main lobby ot Schaffer Library. Please save this. schedule for your . convenience.

·Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS September 29, 1988 aLnnrnrbirnsis \ I --'-------Founded al Union College 1877 ------ 1 Tolerance Not Enough Jacob Holdt, the Danish photographer who brought his presentation \American Pictures\ to campus Moday evening, claims that Americans are raised to be racists. If he is correct, then we have our work cut out for us. Holdt asks us t() examine our own biases and to overcome our racist tendencies. Certainly there can be no better environment to do this than an academic one. Seldom will we encounter as ideal an opportunity to challenge our preconceptions, exchange ideas, and learn from others as we do every day in college. The college is working hard to promote cultural diversity in its student body. There are students from many different cultural, economic, and ethnic backgrounds at Union. We need no longer take a term abroad to learn about other countries, for we have many International Students in our classrooms, dining halls, and dormitories. We must learn not only to \take advantage\ of their knowledge, but to actively strive to realize and break down our own prejudices. Of couse we stand to gain personally from this, but its effects could be felt on the campus community as a whole. Holdt believes that awareness of racism and prejudice is the ·first step towards fighting them. Feelings of guilt and helplessness will not change anything. Don't be frightened into inertia, and don't be afraid to acknowledge prejudice when it arises. Awareness may be the only way we have to combat it. We ask you not only to be more tolerant and open,. but also to not ignore the reality that Holdt presents. Prejudice is prevalent in Amenca. Learn To Earn? Is pre-professionalism running rampant at Union? The mad rush is already on for recommendations, job interviews, applications, resumes... Frenzied seniors are anxiously awaiting test dates for the G MATs, MCA Ts. and LSA Ts. The Career Development Center is already knee-deep in work with upperclassmen taking advantage of its resources. Evidence at Union offers a resounding \yes.\ But the question that really needs to be asked is \Is pre-professionalism harmful?\ The situation here is not unique to Union's confines. And although this alone does not make pre-professionalism 'acceptable,' one must recognize this fact as significant in the search for an answer to the second question. From the student's point of view (however sh()rt range his view might be), pre- professionalism is not harmful; this can be inferred from the trend across the country on college campuses. Critics of pre-professionalism draw attention to its supposed conflict of interests with higher institutions of education, primarily liberal arts colleges. The ideals of these colleges and universities push the value of a classical education: education as an end in itself. While the beauty of this philosophy must be appreciated and remembered, the harsh reality is that that alone is wrong. Pre-professionalism need not be detrimental to the liberal arts framework. Concern for a constructive profession after college and the honored ideals of education can be complements. Each ta.Ken alone can be hannful. Fair shares of each can be rewarding. LETT'ERS Union and Holidays - Like Oil and Water To the Editor: Ever siAce I came to Union College last year I have been very disturbed with the administration here. It seems odd that the students do not even know who to speak to if there is a problem with the way things are run here. It is very upsetting to think that the only way to express an opinion around here is to write to the Concordiensis. I was very agitated by the way this year's schedule was planned and as a matter of fact last year's too. When I left Union last year I was under the impression that classes were starting on Wednesday, September 7. It was only wlien, I arrived that I found out that classes were starting on Thursday. Now you might ask why I am making a big deal over this. Well it is clearly simple-- there are many students here that do not live in the northeast. I for one am from Florida and as anyone knows travel arrangements for this time of the year must be made in advance. I do not even think the school cares or thought about those people living far away from this area. My friends and I now have to change our travel plans because the school for whatever reason could not notify its students over the summer. Even more upsetting, is the reason for the change. Supposedly tl!e faculty wanted labor day off and llhat is when the schedule was altered. Now to me it seems odd that after having tluee months off they wanted an extra day. In my eyes it seems that the faculty can have a d.ay off when ever they want, yet if we decide to take a day off we can't have it lega:lly. A. specific example I have has tC> do with the :recent Jewish holidays. I did not attend classes on these days because my feligion means a lot to me. nut while I was observing these holidays, in the back of my mind I was thinking about all the work I had to do for missing class. This work load totally affects one's observance of a holiday and almost makes it as though there was never a holiday or better yet that religion does not. even exist. The one thing that I cannot understand is that at almost every other school in the country the students are off for most religious holidays and those which are nationally observe. I thought college was supposed to be a time when one grows 11p and learns about different people and cultures. Instead last year when it was Washingt<Jn's Birthday, Martin Luther King Day, or Memorial Day we, as students, attended class. I felt that instead of my horizons l:Jeing expanded I was losing some of my patriotism for our country. The college by not giving us these days off is making it seem as though these holidays mean nothing and tliere is no 11ea.son for observing them. I strongly feel that the school is total:ly wrong with this attitude. Last year I was told by a member of the coUege comtnunity that the reason we do not get these days off is because we are on a trimester system. Now to me that is just a lame excuse that the college is using to cover up :for their lack of proper pianning. Looking again at our schedule, this year spring break ends on Easter Sunday. I find this upsetting even though I do not observe the ho1iday. Why sllould students have tC> travel on this family holiday? Now maybe to the faculty it does not make a difference because they live locally, but to some students it does. I_ would appreciate it if the college would think more logically when planning the school year in the futlU'e. I also feel that the students should have someone they could talk to about their concerns and that we should be able to vote in matters that affect Gur future. If there is someone that is availabale to speak with, can you please let me and the rest of the college community know who you are. Scott Weisberg '91 Read News Analysis Every Week Page Two Is there an issue you are concerned about on campus? Then ... come to the AWARE meeting. Monday at 2:00 in the career development center Schaffer Library will hold a booksale on the following dates: Fall Term September 28 October 19 November9 No sale in December Winter Term January 18 February 15 Spring Term March 29 April26 May24 The sale will run from 12:00-4:00 pm on each of these days in the· main lobby of Schaff.er Library. Please save this schedule for your convenience. Lisa . . . . . · . · .· F~rn~oif, J{!:tl FerdinatJd:. . }?rie{lcloh~ .. . •.... · .. . . . . . .. . . .·. . . · . G<>¢t;z, ·Pamela . Haber: :&t11ce Ea•u.. r~ ·. ·M·. ·:tti'fu, \'~\\\'· 1 ~•·· , f!.~•vt'n·· ·. \'t .l .. rl·a .... d ' _,- . ~ '·\ -· ·. ' ; J~., J~ .... ,. -~·~.q· ~- ~~.\;;!::&!~ ·. 1.:~ -'f~ .--.'!IV~:.. . - .u' , Steph!lnie J aryna, Be.cky Jln, . Chad Levin~, Melissa Levine, Melanie Masterson~ .· McOowan,VirgJnie Mello, Tracy Pry luck~ l>iana Scioccnetti, Arulrew Seewald, Catharine Thomrtson, Dun Valerio. Nancy Wolfe~ Tim Wymes~ PHOTOGRAPHERS; Heather A1my\ Janice AltierL; Leslie Ross, 'fc.dd eocorJ:k:as, Chris Williams~ Amy DillealJack. CONCORDIENSIS is puhlisllerl every Thursday by the student body of Unkn College,. Schenectady, Ne'ilV York 12308; Pttblications Office; S'usqaehanna Publications, Inc., • :Box: .;,8,2;-. .Siclney;. N.ew York 13838 (6G7) ;563.-il39. bUI)$Cj~~t:l.()U. rate: $3/l p¢r . d~livered anywhere in the the

CONCORJ)JBNSIS September 29, 1988 rage 13 . . . ~: THE WRITING CE NTE.R OPENS ! • The writing Center has opened for its fW:h year of · • servic~. it_was announced this week by PFof~ssor , Alan. ~elsoP;, ·director of the Cellter. Estal>l!Shed in ·. • the fall of ~9!34\ .the Writlrtg Center Is !).OW located • o:u the second floor of Whi~t House, above the · . Registrar's otnce, · · · ·. The ·Center ls headed •by Prof. Nelson and Mrs . . , Sandm Lo~le,y, and staffed by ten undergra,(luate · .tutors ~ertenced Jn helping students and. other · lll~mbets ofthe commufiity: With j:heir writing• · . We were especlally J;llease!;l, With the work of our · tutors la$t ye~,\ said Prof, Nelson, \imd we thitlk : we've assembled ari equi'l.lly strong group for 198e· .. 8$•\ The tutC)rs this yeat Include (ol.Jr students . · contQ:J.l:l~ from last year; serilorS Deborah Byer- ' all-d. l{aren Taylor •. and jun,to:r$ Carolyn Dunn and • · _Melissa Blooin. New tutors selected this year ; lncl~de seniors Kirsten Arnhold and Suzimne · • Lacheller, juruors I>aYid .Acl:lnolfi and Lori Estes; , ~d sQphomotes Elizabeth Berliner al).d :ramera • Tibbetts. · The ·WtiUng Center is open Monday through Fnday afternoons, 2:00-4:30, · and on Sunday through Thursqay erenillgs frc;>m '7:00-10:00. No appol,ntments are necessary. Brief Questions can .. l)e handled by telephop.e, ,at EXt. 6056.~ · . FINSERV COMPUTER CORPORATION . Eighteen year old -Schenectady based Service Bureau ' has expanded to the Telemarketing Industry to meet · the need-s of our.clients'. WE l'IEiro 15 PHONE AGENTS . To contact our clients\' already existing customers and ·members to explain and to offer new services available. · · $6/BR GUARANTEED • walking _distance from campus • paid training •no cold calling •advancement opportunities •morning/evening hours •friendlr nonpressuted environment . If you nave a clear speaking voice and a professional attitude tow~d business, call Lori at 374-3051 for interview. GET THE EDGE ON THE COMPETITION \bu're \\Ui'king hard m )Qllr cOllege degree Bllt at graduation, ·)UU may be ooe of many ·people com- peting for the ·few •really-~ ~gs. Get the most froll). )OUr degree Air Farce ROTC is one wiij to help }UU get started: Our train- ing program gives }'OU the management and leader&:tip skills )00 ileed to succeed As an Air Force office~; )OO'll put }Otlreducation to 'M>rk in a responsible positiOn from the verybeginning. . - Itt a great opportunit}! wey settle iJr anything less? CAPT ROBERT KELLER, IV . 518·276·6236 . \To be effective, le!Jal education must be-~ sha.red-enter.prlse.\ ~\':\\'\\'-...-.;-::--\'\1 Jamee W. Gordon Professor oflaw J:O. University of Kentucky Ph.D. University oiKantucky 1981 . Professor Gordon .joined !he Westom New England .f!ICUIIy in 1981 a~er completing his doctoral dissertation, entitled \laviyars. in Politics: Mid-Nineteenth Cenl\Jry Kentucky as a Case Study; • Professor Gordon received his law degree from the University of he was a slaff mam~r of the KentuCky Law Journal. He practiced law for two years with the L~uisville .firm of Lyn«;h, Sharman & Fowler;Hisareas of professional interest include c<mstitutional and le al histo a~ lha Uniform Prolla!e Code. Meet with Professor Gordon to learn mote about our Law Schoof, where 1aculty and students work together toward a comrnon goal. Career Festival, Wednesday, October 5, 1968 fr()m 12:00 - 5:00 p.m., Unipn College Field House WeJnvlle applications from all persons regardle$s of race, gender, or handicap. ·em·· .· $chool ori.aw .. Ulestern Dew England eellege . . . • . 12rs Wilbraham-~d Springfield, MA 01119 413-782·1406 .The LAST Homecoming Meeting- Thi_s ls when ALL of the detaiJs are ironed. out and specific responsibilities assigned. We hope to see the same gang and any interested newcomers on Wednesday,. October 5 at 4:00 pm in room. ~ 1· 0 of the College Genter. laura Cassidy '89, Maria Kapogiannis '89 Home·co.niing '88 Co-Chairpersons and · Kristen Santos· '89 .Promotional Day Chairperson Beth Deaner '89 Parade Chairperson . / Graduating seniors please note that applications for the 1989 Marshall . Scholarship competition are due on October 15, 1988. The British Marshall scholarships, funded by the . British Government, were established in 1953 as a national gesture of thanks to the United States for aid under the Marshall Plan. Up to thirty college graduates, men and women under 26, are selected annually to work as British Marshall Scholars for two years for further degrees at 45 British Universities in a· Wide range of subjects (including the sciences and humanities). As the Marshall Committee explains: .\. . . there_ is no such thing as '!. stereotypical Marshall Scholar. While the Marshall Scholarships have a high reputation for intellectual excellence which we wish to retain, there has been tendency to assume that this is the sole criteria. Because . of the mini~Um. required GPA (3.7 or A-), it is, of course, assumed tha~ all candidates have done very well in their academic studies. (Students with very strong academic records that may fall just short of 3.7 are still urged to apply~) Within this framework, the selection committees are ldoking for additional qualities that distinguish the Marshall Scholars from others. Potential Marshall Scholars usually have a wide range of personal interests and achievements, but above all. display a wide sense of adventure, enthusiasm, originality, individuality and a potential for leadership. The committees are particularly interested in those candidate who are likely to rriake a . practical ·as well as an intellectual contribution to public life or · international affairs in the USA whatever their chosen careers! whether in· business, public service, politics, journalism, science, industry, I education or academics.'' • 1 Fo~ applications and further infonnation conta:ct Prof. Marten, English ' ; Dept. (ext. 6052). r·HANKS, UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS, FOR CARING The Self-Contained Unit which is a customized bus specifically designed to serve as a _ \bloodmobile\ will be parked in front of the College Center from 10:30 am to 5 pm each day on Wed., Oct .. 5; Thurs. , Oct. 6; and Fri., Oct. 7, 1988. The following fraternities and sorority will be sponsors: Phi Gamma Delta on Wednesday, October 5,Hlll8. For appointment c<>ntact: George Stffian Tel. 372-0172. Goal: 65 Units Delta Gamma on Thursday, October 6, 1988. For appointment contact: Anne Gould Tel. 386-4348. Goal: 65 Units. Alpha Epsilon Pi on Friday, October 7, 1988. For appointment contact: David Kohl Tel. 386-4209. Goal: 65 uRits. Blood has been crucially low this summer and we are hoping to collect the needed blood this fall to ade'quately supply the area hospitals. Please help by si.gning up. It only takes and hour to go through the entire process. ln order to make the bloodmobiles run as smoothly as poccible, please sign up ahead of time with the appropriate contact people.

CONCORDIENSIS September 29~ 1988 Page 13 iHE WRITING CEN7ER OPENS The writing Center has opened for Its fifth year of service, It was announced this week by Professor Alan Nelson., director of the center. Established In the fall of 1984, the Writing Center Is now located on the second floor of Whitaker House, above the Registrar's office. The Center Is headed by Prof. Nelson and Mrs. Saildra Longley, and staffed by ten undergraduate tutors experienced In helping students and other members af the community With tllelr writing. 'We were especially pleased. With the work of our tutors last year,\ said Prof. Nelson. \atJ.d we think we've assembled an equally strong ,group for 1988- 89.\ The tutors this year include fo~r students continuing from last year: seniors Deborah Byer ami. Kar:en Taylor, and juniors Carolyn Dunn and · Melissa Bloom. New tutors selected this year Include seniors Kirsten Arnhold and Suzanne Lacheller, juniors DaVid Adinolfi aEd Lori Estes, and sophomores Elizabeth Berliner and Tamera Tibbetts. ' The Writing Center Is open Mo:nday through Friday afternoons, 2:00-4:30, and on Sunday through Thursday evenings from 7:00·10:00. No appointments are necessary. Brtef questions can be handled by telephone, at Ext. 6058.- · FINSERV COMPUTER CORPORATION · Eighteen year old Schenectady based Se:rvice Bureau has expanded to the Telemarketing Industry to meet the needs of our clients'. WE NEED 15 PHONE AGENTS To contact eur clients' already existing customers and members to explain and to offer new services available. $6/HR GUARANTEED •walking distance from campus • paid training •no cold calling • advancement opportunities •morning/evening hours •friendly nonpressured environment If yoa have a clear speaking voice and a professional attitude toward business, call Lori at 374-3051 for interview. GET THE EDGE ON THE COMPETITION You're working hard for )Qllr college degree. But at graduation, you may be one of many people com- peting for the few really good openings. Get the most from }Ulr degree Air Force ROTC is one way to help )00 get started. Our train- ing program gi\eS you the management and leadership skills you need to succeed. As an Air Force officer, ~11 put )OOr education to work in a responsible position from the very beginning. Its a great opportunity. Why settle for anything less? CAPT ROBERT KELLER, IV 518-276-6236 ... - ,. - ... ................. = ~\\'=\\ =-=- Leadership Fx:ellence Starts Here \To be effective, legal education must be a shareaenterprise.\ .--:----c---~ Jamoe W. Gordon Professor of Law J,D, University of Kentucky Ph.D. University of Kentucky 1981 Professor Gordon joined the Westam New England faculty In 1981 after completing his doctoral dissarta~on, antided \lawyers in Politics: Mid-Nineteenth Century Kentucky as a Case Study.· Professor Gordon received his law degree from the University of he was a staff memoor of the Kentucky Law Joumal. practiced law for two years with the Louisville firm of Lynch, Sherman & Fowler. His areas of professionafinterest include constitutional and le al histo and the Uniform Probate Code. Meet with Professor Gordon to learn more about our law School, where faculty and students work together toward a common goal. Career Festival, Wednesday, October 5, 1988 from 12:00 ·5:00p.m., Unipn College Field House We invito applications from all persons regardless of race, gender, or handicap. School ttf l.aw We stem Dew England College 1215 Wilbraham Road Springfield, MA 01119 413-.782·1406 The LAST Homecoming Meeting This is when ALL of the details are ironed out and specific responsibiHties assigned. We hope to see the same gang and any interested newcomers on Wednesday, October 5 at 4:00 pm in room ~ 10 of the College Center. Laura Cassidy '89, Maria Kapogiannis '89 Homecoming '88 Co-Chairpersons and Kristen Santos '89 Promotional Day Chairperson Beth Deaner '89 Parade Chairperson Graduating senio;s please note that applications for the 1989 Marshall Scholarship competition are due on October 15, 1988. The British Marshall scholarships, funded by the British Government, were established in 1953 as a national gesture of thanks to the United States for aid under the Marshall Plan. Up to thirty college graduates, men and women under 26, are selected annually to work as British Marshall Scholars for two years for further degrees at 45 British Universities in a wide range of subjects (including the sciences and humanities). As the Marshall Committee explains: .\ ... there is no such thing as a stereotypical Marshall Scholar. While the Marshall Scholarships have a high reputation for intellectual excellence which we wish to retain, there has been tendency to assume that this is the sole criteria. Because of the minimum required GPA (3.7 or A-), it is, of course, assumed that all candidates have done very well in their academic studies. (Students with very strong academic records that may fall just short of 3.7 are still urged to apply.) Within this framework, the selection committees are looking for additional qualities that distinguish the Marshall Scholars from others. Potential Marshall Scholars usually have a wide range of personal interests and achievements, but above all display a wide sense of adventure, enthusiasm, originality, individuality and a potential for leadership. The committees are particularly interested in those candidate who are likely to make a practical as well as an intellectual contribution to public life or international affairs in the USA whatever their chosen careers, whether in business, public service, politics, journalism, science, industry, I education or academics.\ · For applications and further information contact Prof. Marten, English . Dept. (ext. 6052). THANKS, UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS, FOR CARING The Self-Contained Unit which is a customized bus specifically designed to serve as a \bloodmobile\ will be parked in front of the College Center from 10:30 am to 5 pm each day on Wed., Oct. 5; Thurs. , Oct. 6; and Fri., Oct. 7, 1988. The following fraternities and sorority will be sponsors: Phi Gamma Delta on Wednesday, October 5,1988. For appointment contact: George Stffian Tel. 372-0172. Goal: 65 Units Delta Gamma on Thursday, October 6, 1988. For appointment contact: Anne Gould Tel. 386-4348. Goal: 65 Units Alpha Epsilon Pi on Friday, October 7, 1988. For appointment contact: David Kohl Tel. 386-4209. Goal: 65 units. Blood has been crucially low this summer and we are hoping to collect the needed blood this fall to adequately supply the area hospitals. Please help by signing up. It only takes and hour to go through the entire process. In order to make the bloodmobiles run as smoothly as poccible, please sign up ahead of time with the appropriate contact people. . ' -· \ .....

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS September 29, 1988 _: 23 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Billy Bragg: \mixing Pop 'n Politics\. ARTS BRIEFS Caffe Lena -Saratoga Springs, 583-0022 Tonight 8:30: Open Mike Night Fri., Sat,. 8:30: i:ain Mackintosh: Irish, British, and Scottish Songs and Humor Proctor's - Schenectady, 346-6204 Sept. 29 - Oct. 1 \Mystery ofEdwin Drood.\ Call for tickets and prices < ~-\ '!',__ • Brewing W.ith Billy ~s.ragg By JOHN S. MORGAN Englishman Billy Bragg and supplanted Texan Michelle Shocked have recently provided albums for the educated ear that put forth an eloquent argument for minimalism in music, notwithstanding the fact that W~rkers Playtime and Short Sharp Shoc,ked. are the artists' most technologically embellished works to date. Where Big Audio Dynamite and others use more electronic gadgetry in their music than the average electrical engineer would feel .comfortable with, Bragg, Shocked and, in a most critically acclaimed fashion .• Tracy Chapman leave nary a trace of dubbing or drum machines in their music - music that is as crisp as Carl Heidrich's sports articles are wont to be. \The Short Answer;, is my favorite tune, on which Bragg 1 is credited with \Electric gUitar. electric bass, ttiangle~· - recordi.ng. must have required more than one take. The album is ·first single, \Waiting For The Great Leap Forwards,\ features drums,· whereas a rate tambourine rattle constituted full percussion accompaniment up to the time of Taxm~n·~ release. Other noteworthy cuts include \Valentine's Day Is Over,'' \She's Got A New Spell\ and the acapella ;'Tender Comrade. Workers Playtime is far less political· from start to finish than many of the songs on his first release - 1983's L.ife's A R,iot With Spy V s. Spy. Several tunes have. the familiar bite of \Levi Stubbs' Tears\ (Taxman), but the song about the girl who got away, Mary in \The Short Answer,\· contains the most compelling lyrics. universaiity ·is certain: with each li:ste,ning the craftsmanship of Britain's casual guitar hero amazes and mesmerizes. :Michelle Shocked is quite a • different st?ry· Short Sharp Shocked 1s bet verv first Studio album; T:he Texas ca,m'pfire Tapes were recorded live to a Walkman at a folk festival - complete with crickets. Her . music is more ·charming .than overwhelming, - but it should be noted that Shocked ha$ charmed quite a few record buyers. lately. Her beautiful voice rings tli{ough on Short Sharp; at~hough keyboard parts prove disl;racting at sevemlpoints on the album. New York State Museum, Albany, 474-5877 Opening Oct 1, \Sound and Fury\ Workers Playtime i~ Bragg's second studio effort for Blektra records, and it is justas brilliant an effort as his lalst: Talking To The Taxman About Poetry. In the way .of contrast to his previous six records (one of which is the double album compilation 'Back to Basics), Playtime sticks out as Bragg's slickest record to date. \Like a bully boy in a Benetton shop, None ofthe songs on Sbor t Sharp Shocked jump out at the listener as singularly memorable, · but the consistency of excellence mirrors that of the Union. \Huns.\ 'The album is more accurately divided into ten stories - as· opposed to ten songs. Shocked's lyrics weave personal tales of a most interesting youth in East Texas that aim to entert.ain and amuse. \When I grow up I want to be I an old woman\ is· - the line which opens the record. Not listed on the jacket, sleeve or label, a punk rendition of \Fogtown\ (from the Campfire Tapes) is the record's last cut and features Millions -of Dead . Cops as Shocked's baclting band ,.lively describes this one well. A Music Video exhibition Admission Free Albany Public Library, Albany, 449-3380 Beginning Oct. 4, 2:00, 7:30 p.m. Hitchcock Film Festival: \The Lady Vanishes\ Admission Free Union· College, College Center Auditorium Friday-Sunday: 7, 9, 11 \Animation 19th Tournee\ VVednesday:7,9; 11 \Fr?m the Hip\ The Egg- Albany. 443-5222 Oct. 1 - 14 \Once Upon a Mattress\ A Musical comedy $9 for students T.HE NEW ROC &ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW Of all of his earlier albums, production sophistication was measured by the presence. or tack thereof, of another electric guitar player. On Playtime, a full half of the tracks feature Cara Tivey on keyboards .,. a Hammond organ is even employed on· the melodic \Must I Paint You A Picture.\ HOURS: 4-12 EVERYDAY Come visit us at the College Center or Call for free delivery ... 370-6060 - $5.00 minimum or a small p:izza · You're never happy with what you've got Until what you've got has gone 'Sorry Mary.\ Not to worry: Bragg - a Socialist active in the politically~conscious pop coalition Red Wedge - is still unlikely to turn up as a contributor to the Unio:n Sentinel. It is revealing that \Great Leap Forwards\ is the first single, being the most political song. warning that \the Third World is just around . the comer.\ Valentine~s Day Is Over\ centers on Bragg's perception of the Thatcher era as economically and personally brutal. · It is difficult to distinguisli between the brilliance displayed on Bragg's last two full records. One point of Reminiscent of Joa11 Baez, Shocked is not without her political cenvic·tions. The album cover of Shurt Sharp . Shocked features a San Francisco Examiner photo of her arrest at the ·1984 Republican National Convention, where she was demonstrating on behalf of squatters' rights. Next Week: Patti sm;th ·IDOL Meeting Thursday (TODAY) 8:00 • ID Humanities • t j I

t ! ' . CONCORDIENSIS . September ~9, 1988 22 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Americ.a The Racist By KATIE BOYD. Arts .Editor Images captured by a Dane traveling through American ... A mother. sobbing over the coffm of her fow year old son. A sick wife watching her 78 ye!U' old husband plow .their dry· field. Two heroine addicts shooting up in a-dilapidated room with a view of the gold domed capitaL The cribs of emaciated children. The mother of a murdered man refusing to wash the dried blood from tbe floor bacause it's \all she has left of her · boy.\ A burning Cf()SS and angry white faces peeping out from white hoods. The picture of a 17 ye~ ald boy :hanging from a. ·tree, .the victim of a 19&3 -lynching . party. - All American Pictures Some .startling ~nclusions ... All white protestant heterosexual males ate racist, _sexist, an.ti~semitic, and homophobic .. Slavery is alive and well in the USA ()f the 1980's. The segregation of urban blacks. hispanic$ and other minorities is COrt1J)arable only to the situation itt South Africa. Proposed . \liberal\ t:eforms to help this underclass are not only limited but patronizing and hypocritical. The oppression of the m:tderclass is worse now than in the 1970's. The United States..- imp.otence in confronting and defeating, this oppression is suicidal. American Pictures is an evening of oppression. American Pictures is fotir hours of slides, taped dialogues, and music recording the suff~ring of America's underclass. This underclass is removed from main~treani America and feels unable to advance because, different from the lowerclass, the underclass \ ... next to your greatest technological triumphs are· your greatest human failings.\ is \no where near the social ladder.'' Jacob Holdt, creator of American Pictures, claims that slavery exists today both in the historical sense and with perverse :modern twists. The first two hours of his show do(,':ument the Qnderclass' perilous position in the southern states .of the USA. The cotton and tobaco sharecroppers live in conditions similar if not identical to those of the slaves. Some of these sharecroppers live in former slavequarters, others in newer and often smaller shacks: Almost all live without electricity or running water, With a salary averaging around $40 a month, most are in tremendous debt to the \white owner\\ --the owner of the big white house., the owner of the fields where they work, the owner .of the company store where they buy basic goods at more than 30% over retail price. The children are malnourished and often unable to attend school as famili~s are dependent on their wages. While this world seems so very alien, Holdt personalized southern underclass oppression by involving the audience in the personal tragedies of the people photographed. Ten year old Linda's excitement over :receiving kerosene for the family's lamp, her enthusiasm for books, her hope, and her love for her family made the debilitating circumstances of her childhood all the more tragic. The second half of the presentation moved the focus from the otherworldliness of southern rural oppression to Our north eastern urban backdoor. ·Tony Harris, a workshop leader for American Pictures, reiterated the necessity to avoid ---------------------------- blaming the victims for their Som·~body's WrC?ng misfortunes. He warned against the temptation to believe \the best information available\ when in fact that information By DEB LUCEY & JANE HA C;KETT On Tuesday morning there was a mini-American Picture- workshop that dealt with the issues and emotions raised by the preceding frlm presentation. The basic premj.se for the workshop was that racism is the fault of white Americans. The audiences attempted to label black people as sharing the responsibility for racism. Yet only the whites have the social power to fuel and institutionaliZe prejudice into racism. The workshop was a process. It was progressive in the sense that it began by working through one's ignorance of her '\ own prejudice ro accepting that prejudice. By the end of the workshop not one person .could raise her hand ro Tony Harris's question, \Wilo here is not prejudiced?\ Harris brought us through confronta~ions, demonstrations, and arguments, making the audience understand · how much more dangerous white prejudice is than black prejudice. Blaclc prejudice causes daily feat, distress~ and rationalizatiOll in whites' reactions towards blacks. However, wbite prejudice against blacks affects blacks daily in the form of jobs,' education; housing, the justice systems, and social services.lt does not make much difference to whites opportunity and life what blacks think of them. Blacks do not have the power · is insensitive to others. He · explained how cities enslave the underclass by the segregation caused by ghettos, i by the vicious cycle of anger- to be at fault in racism. One demonstration thaJ Tony Harris performed while the audience was still wavering on the role of blacks in the racism problem dealt with the oppressor/victim relationship. Harris called up a girl from the audience. He asked. her to put ~c oen on the top of ·her head balance on one foot, and sing \Twinkle Twinkle Little Stat.\ The girl proceeded to do so tottering and stumbling over - ...... ,.,--~,, the words and the audience laughed at her. We were then asked what we just saw. A fool, stupid, funny, humiliated, · and embarassed were some of the responses. Harris then pointed out that these were all responses analyzing the victim. No one said he should net have made her look like a fool •. No one looked at ·what .put her in that situation. This is what we are doing in the black/white relationship. There exists a victim/eppressor relation in racism. The victims perform only under conditions dictated by the oppressor, . The process used in this workshop was personal and hostility, and by the brutality and \necessity\ of crime. His conclusion that \next to your greatest technological triumps are your greatest human fairings\ was supported by the following two hours of slides. These slides showed the tremendous separation of the underclass: next to marble castle banks were beggars, underneath highway ramps were families living in cars, below signs bragging about the USA's high standard of living were lines of the underclass waiting for food. The mental anguish caused by oppression, explained Holdt, often follows an anger- hostility pattern. Not able to fit in or advance along \normal\ channels, the underc1ass often resorts to crime. Twelve of the friends Holdt met during his travels were killed, more simply disappeared, and m~y were imprisaned. As Holdt explained the behavior of tlp-ee men who first attacked him and then later invited him to their home, they felt they had a choice to either victimize or remain a victim. But the anguish of oppression attacks not only the underclass · but the res~ of society as well. The motivations. of KKK members can be construed as their desperation to prove their own self worth. The \poor white trash'\s hostile reactions against blacks and other minorities is often an attempt to find a scapegoat for their misfortunes. Those within the effective, making individuals realize their own prejudice. Harris left us with a successful feeling of responsibility. Harris and Jacob Holdt strongly believe that we are all basically good and ethical people. Harris encouraged whites to promote Page 15 ·1- 0 g Cl . 0 . ~ social and economic mai~tream are also victims of this · American disease of oppression. Holt told the audience that \the slave holder cannot be happy.\ And, while we remain citizens in a country of oppression we wi11 stay cripple·d by our guilt-fear pattern. Certainly American Pictures has limitations. While recognizing these few qualifications, however, one should not dismiss the subject. Generalizations are never totally accurate. The description of heroine addicts as \supersensitive individuals unable to conform to the wolf- like life of the US\ seems dangerous in its romanticism of a pathetic escape. The dismissal of ' 1 liberal reforms\ as hypocritical talk because of a refusal to absolutely reject the status quo unfairly belittles actions which. could help. And to scorn this help as bourgeois guilt meant to make the ·· underclass comfortable in its oppression works to retard involvement in the battle against oppression. Recognize the limitations of one travelers recollection of his travels. But more importantly recognize that oppression not only exists but is getting worse in our country! The situation is extreme. Respect for humanity and hope of economic survival demands that we change the desperate destruction of underclass opppression. the awareness of racism within their own race. The question often asked to Harris and Holdt is 11 What can we do?\ Their response was not an answer but a plea for us to see our own realization of prejudice as a beginning of hope. for us all. \') iii ~ § a. • l.

I . /_ .. Page 16 CONCORD!ENSlS September 2!J,. 1988 ' /.' .. ART.S & ENTERTAINMENT Life of a 'Puppet' Dictator • H • :il By CAMERON KENNY Associate Arts Editor Richard Dreyfuss, Raul Julia, arld Sonja Braga star in \Moon 'Over Parados,\ Paul Mazursky's Latest comedy about dictatorship in Parador. On the wli.ole, \Moon Over Parador\ isn't hysterical, but it has charm and enough funny moments to keep it entertaining. Dreyfuss is funny as the egocentric, neurotic actor, and :Braga is great as the sexy and smart mistress. Most of the clnracters, in fact, are engaging, and the pl<lt is fairly well organized. The only problem in fact is that the movie just isn't that funny. The film opens in New Y orlc. where Dreyfuss .. who has just. returned from Parador, talks to some friends about his experience as he waits to audition for a production of Richard the IIt Dreyfuss was filming in Parador and was -forced to accept the role of dictator after the true dictator · died. The comments made about the dictatorship,, and about the nature of dictatorship in general, are amusing. For instance, two posters of the dictatcr are placed side by side,. yet one of them says \Blue\ and one says \White\; and two policemen stand in front of the posters trying to decide what color to vote for. Dreyfuss' infataation with himself as an actor. is -also pretty funny, as he cannot resis(either flattery or a challenging ·role. Ironically, however, the dictatorship, his greatest acting feat, is the one whi.ch no au.dience will ever be able to appreciate, and consequently he is bored by it. \Moon Over P!Uadot'' is also clever becaU:se it is fill~d with. subtle .references to oth€lr movies, \th.e Goodbye (}itl\ and '•casablanca\ amon.g others. Julia instructs tbe police · to \roundup· the usaal suspects. 11 and Dreyfuss .says to Julia, \What axe you, a critic?;'• · the same· qllestion h.e asked of Marsha Mason in \The Goodbye Girt'! Also the part he\s auditionillg for in New York, Richard the III, is the same one he played in tltat movie. These and other references to different films are placed througho\Lt the movie and are generally pretty funny.· The p()i:t,lt that a dictator is just a puppet, easily replaceable, and pulled by a. number of different strings~ als.o has funny connotations. All in all, if you're a Dreyfu!;s fan and don't mind seeing him play the self- obsessed n~urot:ic yer again, or if you really liked \DOw~ and Out in Beverly Hills;\ tl,en you'll probably like \Moon Over Parador\ a lot. Otherwis.e, see it if you're in the mood fot a light farce, but don't go too far ·out of your way. B . There.' s· N-othing Like A • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • BIG· CR-OSSGATES MALL CIN:EMA • t2:10 • By JOHN POMEROY The Madison Square Garden security guard surely didn't understand when a concert-goer strutting by, wide-eyed and bushy tailed', exclaimed, \Hey great Dew,. huh?\ Yes, in fact, last Wednesday the Grateful Dead did perform \Morning Dew\ exquisitely. It's a si:Iame that they did not open the sbow as well. \Good Times Roll\ certainly was not the energetic .. opener . one expects fmm the first night of the Dead's nine-show stay in New YorJc City. It seemed as if they were just going through the motions. \Alabama Getaway\' and \Greatest Story\ certainly didn't help things, with tech.nicians constantly fiddling with Bren(s keyboards and Garcia's vocals fading in and out. However. the Grateful Dead are not ones to disappoint their audience. A quick and energetic stroll through \Stagger Lee,\ \Watkin Blues,\ \Must llave Been the Roses,\ \Queen Jane,\' and \Ramble on Rose\ made amends for the ·tess than satisfactory opening. This burst of energy was completely reflected in the audience's reaction. Everyolle was spurred into joyous dance. This incredible atmosp.here was intensified by a memorable rendition of \Let it Grow\· the perfect end to the revitalized first set. Of course the intermission was filled with tile usual frolicking, hacking, and , wandering. When Phil Lesh walked on the stage again, a huge smile taking up his whole face, it was obvious that something special was in store. \Box of Rain,\ and one of Garcia's new tunes, \Foolish Heart,\ continued the good feelings generated by the end of the first set. Yet, Weir's new song \Victim or the Crime:\ sandVliched between \Box\ and \Foolish Heart,\ threatened that positive mood. As usual', \LoDks Like Rain\ and \He's Gone\ were the crowd pleasers. Tile drUm solos and \Space Jam\ were short, yet much. work. and talent were packed into them. \I Need a Miracle'\ was :Performed for the frrst time· since Sept. 8 in Philadelphia. \Gimmie Some Lovin\' was a nice surprise and proved to be quite a wann-up for the mind blowing \Morning Dew,\ a song recorded on the Grateful Dead's first album in 1966. Tlle jams were ,intense and extended as a result of the band's often-praised unity. Although they spent quite a hit of time backstage, the Grateful Dead perfonned \Black Muddy River\ for an encore. They .played it seriously and almost to perfection. Of course Deadheads don't go to shows for perfection, but it is_nice:, sometimes, -· • MJQNQVEil PARADOR • • COCKTAIL • GORILlAS lf\1 e THEMIST ··DIEHARD • • AFISI'I • CALLED WANDA • • CROSSINGi • DELANCEY e HEARTBREAK • HOTEL • KANSAS • e DEAD RINGER e BETRA.YED PG 1:4(} 4:45 7.:30 10:05 PG13 t10 4.:15 7;40 10:15 R 1:50 4.:25 8:00 10:30 PG13 12:55 4.:00 7:00 10:00 R 12:25 3:40 7:10 Hl:10 R 2:10 4:50 7:45 ·10:25 ' PG 2:00 4:40 7:20 9:50 PG tSO ·4:tQ 6:40 9:05 R R R 1:05 3:45 6:50 9:25 12:¢5 3:30 6:30 9;40 12:2() 3:15 ' 6:15 9:15 • t2:3Q • •· 12:25 • • .12:30 • 1\2:35 • 12:35 11:55 H:lO • • • • •• • • • 11:3$ · .• • 12:00 • 11:5Q. • e WHOFRAMED • _e ROGERRABBIT PG 12:35 3:25 .· 6:20 , 8:55 11:05, • .............. - ........... ~ the Meditati·on Study Gtoup _ . will meet Wednesdays at S:OO pm in the Co liege Center 302 IDOL MEETING TONIGHT There w111l?e Lnstruction for beginners arid two 20 rn inute sessions of sitting meditation. Everypne is invited 8:00 Huma.nities FOR MORE INFORMATION PHONE37D-6240 OR 370-6300 .LECTURE The Modern Language Dept. invites the college community to attend a lecture entitled \Heminlscences of Anna ~ Akhmatova.\ The J~,gtyr~· will be held on/· Wednesday, October 5 at 4:30 PM in the Music Roo~ of Schaffer Library. · ··\'rent Graphics Art and Poster ·Events Pl.ace: The College Center Dates; Sept. 29 & 30 Tirrle: 1 o -: 5 p.m. The price is right Be there!! ~------------------~, .. ~ ~~~§ WRU·c - P,LA YLIST 89.7 fni Sl'ER£1),. \THE FIRST ST.n'ICIN Iii THE NATI.~tl\ J Top 8 .. 97 . While the Tasmanian Devils mating dance .anourad the Nott Memorial has left numerous earthworms homeless, WRUC has been cranking out the best & hippest new music Jo r two week now. ND.. Artist Album Label 1. 2. 3, 4. 5. 6. 7. B. .8;97 Let's Active Ev9<ry0og Has His Day Billy Bragg Workers Playtime Sugar Cubes life's Too Great Psychedelic Furs AUof This And 1\fothing Primitives lovely Big Auto Dynamic lighten Up Vol. SB Fishbone Truth And Sou I Drivin' n• Cryin' Scared But Smarter Lloyd Cole& The Commotions 12~ \My Bag\ TDp Adds IRS Elktra Elektra Columbia RCA Columbia Columbia 1 Island Capitol Antipop, 'til things are brighter, Waxing. Poetics, Blood Brothers . · Programming Notes: . Union vs. SUNY Albany game will be broadcasUfle ~aturday · · LIVE (as oppesed to dead, lgiJess). WRU.C T·shirtCohtest is a cool thing to enter, prizes, free sex & philosophical·enlightment wlll'be awarded. CONTEB'I are you an artist? Do you like to play· with crayons? Wou:ld you like your artwork to be on the backs (and fronts too) of collegf:l students? thera DESIGN IHE NEW· ·wauc I-SHIRII. -Send entries to Karen Schaefer, Box 1896. --- Must be rec;eived by October 1 0, 1:988. T~shirt designs shQuld include the s-tation's cedi. letters and frequency (WRUC 89.7 FM}. The winning artist win receive gift certificates to area restaurants arad lots of vinyt (Along With campus-w.l~e fame.) . '

. \ COl{CORDIENSIS Septena~er 29, 1.988 Page 17 Pure & Si.m·p·le · :Nutriti~on Cent~r \Every Good Thlr;~g Comes From Above\ M-F 9:30-6;00 ~AT 9 :30-5:0() 1609 Unio:n Street . . 377--8971 · ~~Nourish your brain and body with safe and:· · natural viatmins, herbs, foods:~~ : • · 10°/o -discount to aU Union Students .. with .this ad and your l.D. . viSage j{air anlf 'Ianning studio ' 557NottSt. 374-0351 _ -Specials of fhe Man th: aU p.erms are $1().00 off :nail tips with acrylicare $10.00 off high lighting is $15.00 off · as((for . •Joann ~'Betli •.(jeitt ALL YEAR •.t:.gnn Haircuts are $5.00 off Body Wraps a~e $10.00 off TANNING 100 visits for $79.00 can be shared waxing is also available • CHUC 'THE CHUG ROOMS ARE OPEN FOR WORD PROCESSING . ' ' -· ,, · • STUDENT CONSULTANTS TO HELP YOU • CLASSES IN WORDPE.RFECT • FREE! • FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT US IN THE HUMAN'ITIES BASEMENT ... TUTORS NE.EDED Do you feel qualified · enough to tutor others and · earn SSSSSS while doing it? · If so. the AOPTutorlng Service Needs Youll Applications are now being acc~pted for ALL subject areas. FO.R FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE SEE: AOPOFFICE Bailey Hall Room 101 DRY RUSH EVENTS Thursday, September 29 - SIGMA CHI - 6:00pm - BBQ. • Football, Whiffle Ball, Frisb.ee . Friday, September 30 .., THE,TA DELTA CHI- 6:00 pm Cookout - Outdoor Activities Sunday, October .2 - CHJ PSl - 12:00 Noon- Barbeque at the Girling Genter, Meet at Chi Psi Monday, October 3 - PHI DELTA THETA - 7:00pm- Wing.s, Clams .and Monday . Night Football - Wide-screen TV Monday, O:ctober 3 ... PSI UPSILON • 6:30pm- 8:00pm- Wings and Football Thursday, October 6 m SI-GMA CHI - 7:30'pm - Comedian night- Live . , . comedian, Wings, Pizza and· Soda Thursday, October 6 • THETA DELTA CHI • 6:30 pm - Semi-formal steak dinner Corne exper1ence Q_ ,, ••

I • . Pnge l8 CONCORDlltNSIS September 29; 1988 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS Newman Club Activities Over-Night · Retreat- 6 Jobs avaih:ible in .Student · • PM Friday, October 21st - 6 . Secu.t~.ty & Safety. If ·PM Saturday, October 22nd at interested please c;;tll Jim at · 1630 Nott Street. Theme: \The : 386-4131. · Matni (gri,lled cheese) Ezra, P,8RSO!NALS Marni (grilled· cheese) Ezra,, ----------~ Marni (grilled ¥heese) Ezra, Attention Students: To .I 1 Marni (grilled.cheese) Ezra. . : submit .personals, one should Many Paths To Prayer\. Merton Ta:pes • Friday, ·Donation of $5 when you September 30th ~t noon all are register with Sr. Joan. invited to bring brown lunch· Catholic Worker House- and listen to a Merton Tapes in · Sunday, October 23rd any · CC404B .. Discussion follows. Union students who wish to . . visit a Catholic Worker House • For Sale: S'enational Posters! . Mind-boggling art. Free catalog. T .E; Breitenbach, P:O.Box 538A,. AltamOnt NY 12009. • get the forms. from the ·: information desk. The price is · • 50 cents for personals less than ·' 28wordsl '' - . Beto- . Don;t worry aboat runs in · your stockings - The Delta House. Vocation Awareness :in Syracuse- House of STUDENTFORUMSTILL Day- October 211d from .1-4 :Hospitality for the Poor - ·. NEEDS PEOPLE!! · . . What ever happened ·to ·; p.m. at Madon11a Lake, Grafton, , contact Sr. Joan 370c6087 .. We· There are two positions NY - Cost: Free. Lunch will be · will attend nt>on Mass, serve available for the Academic provided. A time of information . and eat dinner and .help . with , • Affairs Committee Writing and sharing ()II the call to · cle~ up. Transportation will be . · Board. If interested, pick up an religious life/priesthood. provtded. , application in the Student • · Senior Drunk Club at lJnion ·• College? Has a -new traditien ; started with Freshman Drunk , Club?. - 1oin the campaign to : Save Drunk Club. ' Sponsored by itbe Vocation · ·. Activities office, fourth floor, Jenny Wee Wee- Awareness Tea.m in · 1 • College Center. collaboration with 1he Campus· CLASSIFIEDS 1 Martial Arts class strut next · :week- Are you interested? Ministry of the Albany Diocese. Any student frorn Union who is interested please contact Sr. Joan CC404B (37()06087). I . For Sale: HP-41CX 1 , calculator, printer, wand, and , numerous modules. Manuals and receipts available. Sunday Ni~Jlt Supper • Everyth1ng for $550;00 or, October 2nd any- Union students negotiate separate items. (518) (Frosh include.<!) wishing to eat . 371-5661. as a group before the 7:30 p.m. ARE YOU INTERESTED IN COMMUNITY SERVICE? Wi111ng to volunteer a Phi Sig. I've missed you. . . couple of hours to nonprofit • Sorry I've been sooo busy. and profit organizat4ons? If , Love Susan. interested, come to an interest 1 . meeting in the Career~· . Development Ce.nter, · QUirk- . Thursday, Sept. 29 at -:J.:OO • The anger has subslded ... you , . p.m. • ate forgiven,. I I VB. Mass just get on food line arid ·• Attn: Professors and bring tray to CC203 from 5:45- students! Are you bored of 7:00 p.m. Cash customers ate . cleaning your house? If you are also invited to:participate. _·looking for someone to help, , For Sale: Apple Mcintosh . 512K. Excellent Conditon. 'Included: 5l2K Mcintosh CaroB - call 393-9703. References Brown Jl~g Lunch & · available upon request Bible Study · Tuesday, October 4th in CoUege Center Couch For Sale: Room 204 fmm 11:30 a.m. to · Comfortable couch suitable for 12:50 p.m. Please give meal any dorm room or apartment. card number to. Sr. Joan For information call386-4125. beforehand or bring your own lunch. For Sale: HP-41 CX calculator, printer, wand, and numerous modules. Manuals and receipts available. Everything for $550:00 or negotiate separate items. (518) 371-5661. . Computet, mouse, 800K disk Welcome to the world of · drive, image writeF, 2 printers, , party oriented feminine hygiene . keyboard, programs. Contact . · products. Greg Mishkin 370-6330. Will · .· consider all offers. Death Row prisoner, caucasian male, aged 42, desires correspondence with any cellege student. Wants :to form friendly relationship and exchange experiences and ideas. If interested, write to Jim Jeffers, P.O.' Box B-38604, Florence, Arizona 85232. Dear Lauren- Great job with the dreaded 5K! . Delta Delta Delta. ' .. Mami! · Have you been putting subliminal. messages in the · • peanut butter??? VB. To all the Deltas facing the · LSATsl Best of Luck! Its fi!13Ily over! Love always - Your Sisters. Steve H& MikeS: B.est of luck this season! Can't waino hear about· it A Japanese Admirer. Courtney and Danielle, The ' survivors o.f the class of '89. . Have. a super season - wish I were there. KriS. Seth, T.hanx for the 'northstar' : comment Monday morning. What a way to start tbe week!! · JenC Hook.meup! Franz and Joe, How would you like some fresh fruit with that? Ali- Are y.ou sure its the same thing that they put in your tooth paste? Chem-15. Tutoring • Union College students can :l>e used in the following areas' at St. John's school: Kindergarten Aides, Computer Mat!t Aides, and Math and Reacirtg on a one-to- one. Please contact 'Kristin Nelson (386-4354} or Sheila Hennigan (386-4353). ·BLOOM COUNTY Berke Breathed Folk Group - All singers and musicians intersted in being part of the M11sic Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Campus Protestant Ministry Activities . -Morning Prayer, weekday mornings, 8:15.;8:35, 4th floor lounge CC. -Bible study & discussion, Thurs. 11:30- 12:45. CC2()5. Lunch is provided for those on the mealplan; others please byo. -Weekly church- hopping. S11Ii. Oct. 2: St. George's Episcopal. Meet in. front of the CC at 9:30. -Joint communion with RPI and Sage for World Communion Sua. on Oct. 2 at RPI Potluck dinner follows. Leave from tile side door of the t . CC at 6:15 PM. Bring food to share. Workshop for Eucbaris tic MinistErS• Thursday,· October 6th from 7-9 in St.· John's School Library. Any: Union student 'Wishing to serve . at St. John's ~lease contact Sr. Joan 370-6081. Commissioning· will take place October 9th at: the 7:30 PM Mass. Visiting Sllut-Ins- Any Union student who wishes to visit a Shut-Ill. on a regular basis please co11tact Sr. Joan's sister, Gerri :B()me 372-3381.

., CONCORDIENSIS September 29, 1988 Page 19 · WARNING.: Beware of . : · L u~. Beck. Psyc~otic Mutant! . . . , . Jen c, R.ec~ntly . wscap(fd . fr<;>m . What the .hell is a one cheek sanitanum. Last seen weanng · sneak? · · · · blue bathrobe and Hanes ' stocking over ·head. Armed with . • socket . wrench •. :will attack if · . Tuan proveked. Answers to the name : . The US . is .getting tb.e better of Beto. · ·end of the deal! Congratulations. Love Michele. 'L · ,.~,. · 3 ·oo · \Kn. k. · · · mw.ay- : a.m., oc , Knock!\ Food? Whete is it? Let. Ted, . me int (Just a ~orsel).. Du bist am besten. Thanks . . . . Love, Z18PHH. ·J for be. ingthere. P.S. Afe you mad? No We · ~--· ,.,.-,..__.----.._.,....,.,........._,.. AreNdt! .1 Robin & Cathy, Much better! Love,. Jill: Mel and Rob!n. Have I got .stories. Miss you! . -S.E;C. .I .... sending e.skimos and : butterflies to a very special guy. Kill, . G~ood luck 011 Sat.! Get • psych-ed for PH Party & of 1 Congratulations Christina on course - Chi PsH! ' being initiated. Hope you had · RobandMel, Miss you guys like crazy. Write me. Lina. To the SDT Sisters who live ' in alphabetical order, · Have fun in that triple for . n()w because you may have a fourth in the spring! Love, Jill,. I miss you very, very~much­ will I see you soon??! Love Dot.. Little Jill, No more .Bagels! UC Field hockey,, Found a substitute for preseason -- climbing Mt. Fuji. Still with you in spirit! Krist. 1 Love. The Snoozer. ·fun at your first real meeting. . Missa, Gretchen, Ann, · We're psyched to have you as /Mamie, Beth, Julie, Jaime, our sister. · I Vicki: · Jen Friedman, Love, gamma phi beta. Miss you all tons. Stay out If you don~t want to say it, Fine! But don't expect me to say· itanymore .. Lori, Lina, Dchi, Delli, DcnL Those Laurie- .. Stanley Kaplan sessions at 9 ii1. • the AM is tough .... Lit.tle of trouble. Write me. Love Kristen. Beck- The gid with the singing vcice says .hi and dares you to gc Capri. CAMPUS NEWS G-Phi-B: Welcome back. · Thln.king of you all. Hope rush · g'Qes well and is successful. Love Robin, Kristen & , Jackie. ( Theatrefest is coming - WHY N01TI Good Luck tonight Ragin' Richmond! Toni & Sarah - Don't be Julie - I need a roomate over . · worried about the bed bugs her~ - How about it? · biting, you have even better Kris. • things crawling into your room! C.B.- I miss my ex-roomate. Don't forget I'm always here for you. U.C. Field Hockey. RA Another wild week at the home front! Good job West 3 rd floor! ! You're still the best. RARA Unfortunately ther.e is no field . hockey in Japan. Obwell. Good Little Twerp- Good Friends! luck .this season. Bad Roomates? Hot, Cold, Kris and Kristen. i Snooze Alarm. ·I Love you. Kill . 110 Davidson, Excuse me sir, is this the Moles- Fun travelling? Delta house? Or do some · Tongue up to knees? Cigarettes? Indians live here? Coffee stains in cafe? TV? K- . Birthday? Happy Birthday! To The New SDT Stewards, Y au losers need a public approval of your job! Actually, you're amazingl Love the old stewards .. La uri A, no more Jim . Dandy's with my boyfriend. Hi to Steve. Miss you tons. . - Love Kristen. We Love You! Lori & Jill. Katie Jane - Good Show in · Class! No AIDS for you. \I do everything right. I b.ave no fear.\ Love, Lori. Dave W: Thanks so much for listening! You're the Best! If I'm the jappiest roommate that you could have then you're \well you know'\. Have .fun·. Linds, without me this weekend. But · The rhuuum needs to be r 1 \Only like you, there's no Cathy, I can't talk now, I I love involved. · have to .go and-----call rne back From, None other than ... not too inuch! . · cleaned '\'-... . Una.· Andy 'Sports Is My Life' Miller, . ' I · Little Lina in five minutes. Those of us up .here Tuesday Leslie Morris _ · nights tho1.1ght you'd like to Big Dave, Here's some Bath advice: Matthew., O.C, tho1,1ght of you all in My move was the movie.· early September. Hope know that Boston is heading for · Wanna come see my loft? My If M · the Pennant. new CS player? . unel is still .servin~ Next move is yours to make. ··orientation was \f11n and · Lina. ·.successful. l want lots of· pheasant, watch out for the . • buckshot ... Read Walter Bagehot for Dr. Eatwell ... Don't sit in the · pictures, aT -shirt and a record .. Lin<ls\~- Robbie D, Oh, it was you in the shower. What comes after rambling Kevin I. Janey B. and Amanda: You One word: Amazing! Write .guys are amazing! Can't wait me. Love The Little One. back of the Badgerbus at 5 . p.m ..... and ·always carry 20p for hot tea. More to come next week. Good thing !.didn't talk to you. on? Clue me in. Lina.·· L. Howard Hughes. Medical Institute Do£torial Fellowships in Biological Sciences 1989 Competition Kristen The_ Howard Hughes Medical Institute will award 60 fellowships for fulltnne s~dy ~oward the·Ph.D. or Sc.D. Degree in Cell/Biology and Regulatton, hnmunology, Genetics, Neproscience, and Structural Biology of Macromolecules. Eligibility: At or near the beginning of graduate study. No citizenship requirements. U.S. citizens m_;ty study abroad; others must study in the U.S. Medical, Dental, and Veterinary students or professionals are eligible if they are at or neat the . beginning of PILD. or: Sc.D. degree studies. . Smdents ~eceiving full tuiton ·via M.D./Ph.D. programs are not eligible. Fellowship Awards:. Three year awards, with option to extend to five years. $12.300 annual stipend. $10,700 annual cost of education allowance to the fellowship institution. Deadlines: November 14; 1988, application deadline Awards announced by early Aprill989. Fellowship tenure must begin by January 1990. For information call:, 202-334-2872 or write: Hughes Doctoral Fellowships, The Fellowship Office, National , Research Council; 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 204-18 • Th~ Howard Hughes Medical Institute welcomes. all qualified applicants and encourages women and members of mii).ority groups to apply. \ Graduate Study in Engineering Dartmouth College Students with backgrounds in Engineering, Mathematics, Computer Sciences or the Physical Sciences are invited to apply for Masters or Doctoral Programs. Fellowships covering full tuition and monthly stipend are available. Contact CDC for further information or attend the Career Festival, October 5, 1988 from 12 p .. m. to 5 porn. ' . ,. ......

·rag~ 10 CONCORDIENSIS S~ptember 29, JJ88 . - - - . - .. - . Try a Macintosh today-you may win a Sony Discman. Get a Macintosh® computer to help with your homework And if that isn~t enough reason to look at a Macintosh today, here's another: So come in and get your hands on a Macintosh. - Now that a new school year is underway, we have an idea that'll make both you and your parents feel a bit more confident come finals time: Then you'll never have to spend anotl1er all-nighter retyping a paper just to purge a few typos and dangling modifiers. You'll be able to Right now, y()u have three chances to win .one of Sony's Discman™ CDplayers-. inducling the exciting Sony Pocket Discman, which alsoplays the new 3-inch CDs. And even if you miss out on the tD player, you may still win one of 15 Apple T-shirts. No strings attached-just fill out . lf not for yourself, do it for your folks. . crank out assignments that look as though you bribed a friend in art school. And with an amazing new program called HyperCard®-which just happens to come packaged with every Macintosh -you can easily store, organize, and cross- reference research notes to your heart's content. The power to be your besfM a registration .form at the location listed below. Enter: September 14th-October 5th. Stop at the Coilege Bookstor~ or the Office of Computing Services for information on purchasing a Mac Apple. tht\ Applt' logo. llvptrComl, ~nt.l M:mntuc;h art reAI~Iercd lradrm:ilfk.li. and \The pc•wr.rln he ynur be~f' ~~a ind('mark. Clf Apple Computer;lnc Sony 01scman IS~ 1rademuk ofSmiyCOrporation No purdusene<essary~ Odds deptnd on number Of entrants See.yow camptJS·Apple rt5r11er for romplete rontt'st drtails Prizes· may vary from proch,u.1 shown Please enter the drawing for the Compact Discs and the Macintosh T-Shirts i.n the Campus Store. The drawings will be held in the College Cente.r. First Floor at the f.ollowing times: · Friday Wednesday • Septemb-er 30th at 3p'm October 5th at 3pm NOTE: You must be present to win any of the prizes. • /

/ CONCORDIENSIS Septe.mber 29, 1988 Page 21 <lrnncnrbiensis SPORTS Rugby Rips Oneonta; Remains Undefeated ByLES MCFLY appearing to stand over the b·all panting Hk:e a dog in exhaustion. We really know It was Saturday, around 3:0() that Chris was far from tired on a sunny afternoon. AU and merely using the advantage seemed good in the world. of surprise. Sheridan also made Maybe that is why the Oneonta the conversion on both ·of the Rugby team was smiling and scores. When the half-time gun cheerful when they arrived on went off, Union led 12 _ 0 _ . t~e Uni.on ·campus that d~y. The half opened up witil a Ltttle did they know that the large number of mistakes by . next eighty minutes would be the Union R.G.B. Cox. comparable to a living helL. Oneonta seemed to be pushing The Union \R.G.B. Cox\ deep into Union territory. This took the field in their usual was to be the calm before the energ.etic fashion. Maybe storm, and led to the utter Oneonta had been out partyi11g, demoralizing of Oneonta both hut the Union team members physically and mentally. Hang gliding teal)l sport~ its Wings. were all tucked into their wa:rrn Unionsecoad row Dave \Slo Th 0 I · · bods by 9 ' 00 p.m. that night. Mo' Morrison won a line <>ut .· · · •· e · · · .. ·. n y Way ·To · Fly f~~:i~~?£~·~g;.~~h~ ~~::;.~~~:;~F~:~:~ By ADAM GAHTAN . · · · re&t.\ This was probably llis who in:stead of kicking to Had -Icarus visited -the all of whom are accomplished Members of the Icarus Club :knowledge that the game wotlld touch kept his kick in bounds Susq··uehanna. Flig .. ht Park :bu.t pil<rts. It is imp·· ossib1e ·to·. incl.ude: be won by the narrowest .of and the hall was recovered s.. marg. ins. . .· · · · · · · uy once for an introdUctory lesson, acCIIrately describe the feeling Lany Jacobs Speed Steve Silberman. Union he would surely have made it of ·leaving the ground ·under Patrice Prusco The first blow to Oneotn~ pushed the ball down field, across tJte Aegean incident-free. yooc own power. it is at once Adam Gahtan came about when Dan Gilbert seemingly at will, until Perry As legend has it, he flew too disorienting and incredibly Andy 8eewald made a run that looked . more Levy broke tl~rough and popped close to the sun and melted his exciting; knowing what to do Chris Nikolis like a power sweep in foot!> all the pill to a <lashing Gobr<>n win~s. But after this ·past once airborne proved for most . Rick Ahl than a proper rugby run. The who put the ball down for a Sunday, fifteen Union College to be the trickiest part. But Mike Moore end result, however, was a 50 try. Sheridan was good on the daredevils now know better. patient instructiOJ;l and intrepid Mike Forte meter solo try by the young conversion making it 18-0. After all, what did Icarus know dete.:nni.nation eventually paid Ray Ashly sophomore. From here on in Union of the pitch, roll, and -yaw off for all in the form of Laura Justice The next score came when played perfect rugby with the axes? Whatofgroundwork and adre.nalirt-pumping, albeit Will Stevens serum captain (and spiritual serum and tlte line working flaring? Of lift' and drag? short, flight. · George Bruins advisor) Chris Sheridan daslled together like a well oiled Indeed, he ·.p· r· o·bably· d. t\d ·not Landings ranged· fr· om· ·.the Dreww· .ard· · into the try zone on a penalty machine However 'd .. play· Chris seemed to catch the . · · ' mr way eve:rt perform a hang-check most awkward plummets to the Eugene through the second half Union b e · t e .• 1 hd Oneonta team off g~ard by · · etore · catapulting· himself mos grace,w touc · owns~ And . . . . . . . . . . Continl1ed on page 23 · recldessly. and arnateurisbly, wtrite everybody incurred the · A. AJ' · · · · · p • · · · . · · · into a flight of at least Hang m inevitable bump a:rtd bruise, the ,··: ·. . s . .· ways ' . . Itching Name 0 f G· am. ·€. or Hang IV difficulty. wont of the damage wa8 to a But, r forget, I am Wtitihg .kite, the result of one of the By ANDREW SEEWALD for the lay people, a& yet less dextrous landings. uninitiated into the E~~ry member of the group exhilirating, cballenging, hasex:pressed a desire to retllm beautiful sport of Hang- fo.; thenext level of instruction ' Gliding. Sunday, September .(perhaps a hop off the 60ft. 25, 1988, saw the advent of the training hill?), and Union College Hang-Gliding arrangements are being made Club, as fifteen of us rose at for tilis coming Sunday. In 7:30 a·.m. to conquer · the other words, we're hooked. If it airspace in the hills and valleys were possible to recreate .the of Cooperstown, New York. sensation accurately on paper, Initial disappointment at you too would understand the leam~g that, atleast that day •. enthusiasm we now have. For we would not be soaring with inf{)tmation about joining us the eagles, was· quickly replaced on our next flight of fancy, with detei1nination to master . contact John Meyers, junior, the groundwork and experience RA; at Potter House. even the briefest moments of Whoever said man wasn't flight. We were delighted with meant to fly ought to stop by the relatively short time this the Susquehanna-Flight Park. took, and before long were And. by the way, .although we logg~ng flights of up to eight were not specifically warned or ntne seconds . at dizzylng against flyitlg too near the sun, altitudes of ten to fifteen feet.. saf~ty is stressed above all else, The basics were covered in .~~whatever anxiety we may an infonnal classroom setting, tmtially have felt gave way to and we were introduced to confidence in the gliders; .staff, some cursory technical as:pects . ~d~w: ow.n rapidly developing of the sport by the instructors, pllQt s msunct. Up we go ... !laseball is like rock, paper, sctssors. ln baseball, pitcl'!.ing beats hitting, hitting beats goad managing, and good managing beats--well, maybe w~ not quite like rock, paper, SCiSSOrs. The only team with more, and better pitching . than the Dodgers is, of course, the NY Mets. \ In any case, the best teams h~ve ~on or are on the verge of wmmng their divisions. That is, the tealllS with the best pitching in ·their division have won. The ()ld axiom tbat baseball is ~0% pitching has never been as true as it is this . ye~. Just look at the Dodgers. The Cincinnati Reds have far better hitting than Los Angeles. S<> do the San Francisco ~iants. But, led by Orel Hershtser and his league- leading victory and shutout .Listen to the UNION - ALBANY GAME on 89.7 WRUC Sat. at 7:00PM , ,, totals, the Dodgers have handily held down their challengers. And earlier in tlte season when it looked like tlte Dodgers were going to be caught, they acquired John Tudor from the Cardinals wlto , . , is second in the league in ERA. The· only team with m<Jre and better pitching than tile Dodgers is, of course, the New York Mets. Last year, injuries decimated the Mets' p~tch.ing staff, so they finished in second .place to last year's mastermhtd Whitey Herzog and the St. Louis Cardinals. Meanwhile, healthy again this year, tlte Mets' staff is even better titan it was two years ago. David Cone, 19-3, is the National League leader in ERA and a prime Cy Young Aw~rd candidate; and he isn't even the Mets' ace. Dwight Gooden v.rill ·start game 1 of the playoffs. Bob Ojeda's hedgeclipping accident means that Sid Fernandez, who would be the ace of some staffs, will finally get a chance to start a .game. Fernandez, famous for being cverweight, is also famous f()r his outsta:rtding performance against the Boston Red Sox. in the 1986 World Series. He may have the opportunity to repeat the performance, provided that the Mets beat the Dodgers and Boston defeats the mighty Oakland Athletics. The Red Sox solidified their pitching staff with .the mid- season .acquisition of sta:itet Mike Boddicker. Boddi~;ker joined· Bruce Hurst, Wes ·Gardner and two-time C~ Young winner Roger Clemens to form the best rotation in the AL East. Sure, the Red Sox are known for tlleir hitting, and stars Wade Boggs. Mike Greenwell, Dwight Evans and Ellis .Burks, among others, are hav.ing outstanding years. But it is no coincidence that the Red Sox did not take over flrst place until the arrival of Boddicker. It is also 110t coincidental that the Tigers, despite certified genius Sparky Anderson at the helm, swoo11ed when ace Jeff Robinson was lost for the season to injury. The Red Sox solidified their pitching staff with. the acquisition of Mike Boddicker • • • to form the best r()tation in the AL East. The Boston staff will have to be at its sharpest against the Athletics. Jose Canseco, Mark McGwire, Dave Henderson and others form a powerful lineup, but as is the case with the other three division winners, pitching is tile backbone of Oakland. Dave Stewart, Storm Davis and Bob Welch bead a solid rotation; and reliever Dennis Eckersley is about to break the maj()r league record for saves. When you watch the playoffs next week, l()ok for several shutouts in th:e Mets-Dodgers series, and j11.st slightly m()re offense in the Red Sox- Athletics series. As is almost always the case, pitching. wili once again decide the winners and then. the world champions.

I.e'· Page 22 CONCORDIENSTS September .29, 1988 And the Wins Keep Coming By THE VICTORY EXPRESS The Union College Field Hockey team returned to campus this weekend after successfully maintaining their undefeated record. Boasting a 4- 0 record before leaving, the Lady Dutchmen fought fora 1- 0 romp over Wells College. The victory over Wells was the team's fourth shutout of the season. Sophomore forward Heidi Groener led the Dutchmen to victory. when early in the first half she scored the only goal against the previously unbeaten Rochester team. Union's strong defensive play led by iunior goalie Jen Lyon was able to shutdown Roche$ter's aggressive offense. Lyon recorded 9 spectacular saves in this important win for Union.· After a celebration at Coco's followed by .a relaxing night at the Jtoliday Inn (note:not Stouffer's) the team traveled to Wells for their second matchup of the weekend. Union·;s offense had their chance to shine when senior co-captain Courtney Lynch provided 3 goals and 3 assists. The remaining 6 goals were scored by Alison Pallotta, Ann Mulvany, Roselle Eisma, Marybeth Bohl, and Mary Hayes (2). \ .. •; .• -~-~~,~~·•c~•<•~• -'{·''''•'-->· ,,,,',~,: •• ,~,.~.;,;.- ..• v-.o.••• This weekend was just an example of the fine plays· Union has been exhibiting all fall. Close to half-way throa~h the season the Dutcltmen have posted victories over RPI, Skidmore, Oswego, and Hamilton. ·The team has been inspired by Coacll Charlie Robert's profound words \Inch by inch it's been a cinch, game by game is our claim to fame.\ The winning team looks forward to seeing lots of fans at their home game against Vassar on Saturday, October 1st at 1:00 p.m. Snow your Union pride and support the women who know· how to score. The field Hockey team has been a torce to be reckoned With. Union Cross-Country Travels to Williams By MONEEKA ZAMAN As we were still sleeping, the Union men's and women's cross country teams piled into a bus to challenge other teams to a run through the birch ttees at the Williams Invitational. The course at Williams College is supposedly the toughest that the runners have to face each year. This year, it also happened to b~ the first meet. Despite grueling practices on everything from flat roads to sand hills, not all team members felt ready to run. Senior captain Jen Regan, one· of the strongest runners, was· injured, as were three other: team members. The lack of experience in the 1 team puts Union cross country · at a .disadvantage. With only two senior women, one junior. woman, and no senior men on the roster of twenty-five, the team is looking youthful. The men were divided into . . fres.hman and varsity groups. Both Rich Zembeck and Tom Frisbie ran their freshmen 5 kilometers (3. 1 miles) in under twenty minutes. In the varsity race, Mike -Martinez, a .sophomore and captain, placed 54 out of about 160 with a time of 29 .41 in the 8 . ldlometer (5 miles) race. Dave Steen, also a sophomore~ placed 63 with a time of 30.29. Other varsity team members, Doug Martocci (captain), Ed Rothenberg, Bob Lindyberg, Jim Campoli (captain) and Hans Schwartz, placed with strong finishes following. closely after the first tow 1 Union men. Only five women , from Union ran. SophomOFe K.ara Merrill, the best returning runner, won a ribbon for her 19· place finish in a 5 kilometer run with a time of 20.20. Freshman Sandy Anselment ran a 21.17 to place 37. Senior captain Sherri Gargile placed 64. Tracy Reynolds and Sue Lyon, both sopltomores •. followed closely behind. Overall, the women's team placed ninth out of fourteen. Plagued with injuries and lack of experience. Union ran well considering the circumstances. Kara summed up the meet when she said, \It was the toughest course w~ would have all year. Not all our team members were there, so we expect to do better next time\. Hopefully, as the team gains experience and strength. better races are ahead. for Union cross country •. The team will be running in Hamilton on Saturday. Lack of Offeiicse Foils- Men's Soc~cer By CARL R. FRIEJJRI CH,. JR. The men's soccer team entered the wee~ with the hope of solving their problems, . wilile at the same time coming away victorious. U11fortunately, the Dutchmen have made a habit ·of readi11g their own press releases and this time it cost them~ The Dutchmen entered the· week standing tall w:ith a Z·O record wheri their travels brought them to. Hamilton. The Dutchmen played a horrible match against a tea:rn they should have beaten. They were disorg<!);lized, and at times it aJlpeared that they just did not care. The lone Union goal vias scored by four-year letterwinn¢r Rich Engdahl, and the ga:llle ended at 1-1. Union then hosted .bigbJy tout€ld arch-rival Binghamton. The squad played t:l:le game <>n the defensJve almost co11tinuall}i, with Binghamton conuolling the midfield and pounding goalie Denny ·M()Taig ue with shots con:.tinu.ally. Without McTaigue, the Dutchmen, as it is becoming ritual to say. would have been in setiolls tron ble. Union's lone goal came when Binghamton put it in their own goal. It. was the best offense tile Dutchmen showed all day. -The game ended in a 1-1 draw. Despite the effort, the Dlltchmen were still undefeated and ranl<ed eighth in the state. The 11ext test for the Dutchmen came last Monday, when Albany,...State came to town. Albany was 5-0 going into the mat~h. allowing only one goal in th()se games. The Dqtchmen did little to soil their perfection, or their own unif()l'll1S. In the first half the ·Dutchmen held the it own, p11;nch for punclt with the tough Albany side. In fact. at times tb.e team dominated, especially in midfield, where Dave Haas, Terry Campbell, Mike. \Droopy\ Kij ack. and Engdahl played well together. Arron Epstein played a fine half.. as well, and subsequently was one of the few remaining · \players\ in the second half.. The problem, which is no longer a hush~h:ush topic, is the Dutc:hmen 1 s inability to · score. The half ended 0-0, and tlie second half proved to be the Dutchmen's undoing, as the. roof feU in from the onset. Disorganization was back, and at the 5:53 mark Albany struck, when a State forward beat three Union defenders on the left, and drilled the ball past a helples·s McTaigue from twelve· yards out . 'The Dutchmen then staged a short rally •: putting .together two chances before they- fell apart. At 17:58 Albany ~truck again, this time the striker beating a trio of defenders from the right side, before scoring with a low shot off the near post It was from that point on that the Dutchmen ~ppeared to have lost the desire to win. Balls were kicked away, tackles missed, and the offensive third of the field might have not existed, because the Dutchmen never saw it. Their misery soon (but not soon enough) ended, and the Dutchmen were handed their ftrst defeat of the season •. 2-0. The'road'was a rough one this past week, and the season is a long one, but perhaps the Dutchmen have to re-evaluate themselves and pull together from within or the season will not only be long, but eternal. Binghamton defense stops D.J. Hodson's attack . SUPPORT . . UNION . ' SPORTS

CON CORDI Athlete of the Week· ByDAwrrMORRI$0N Sp~ris ~Elllitor The field hockey team· is .off to an incredible start this season with a record of 6-0 .. Th~ team :Ita~ ()Utscored their oppone:nts 23;2 and it seems there is •llO ·stopJ?lng them. This· start ~taMisbes the team with a re~ol'd for most consecative wins at the· start of the seasort ()ne of the key ingredients t-o. this fantastic stan is this week's \Athlete of the Weelc''~ COUitJ:ley Lynch. · Courtney is a senior · English/P()t Sci. major out of J;>elham Big-11 School, Pelham . Courtn$y lynch N.Y. She is a four yeax: varsity player and a three year letter winner. Being co~.captain. Courtney is relied upon for leadership and oatpu.t, of which she has shown much thus. far. S.he was responsible for J goals and 3 assists in a 9.;0 rout .over Wells College and played well in a 1-0 win over , Rochester this week. She is the 'leading scorer 6f the team with 6 goals and 10 points. This is not the first time Courtney has received this honorable distinction,. as she :has been named \Athleteofthe Week': 4 times in 4 years. This is just a sign of how oonsistently she plays and how important she has been to Union Athletics .. Crittur's Play Crisp ·Disc by BILL HARDY·~ Th.e Crispy Critturs, Union's Ultiina~ Frisllee Team. played in its first tournamenl Saturday, September 25, at Barel Coll:ege, Annondale-on- Hudson, N.Y. Paxticipating for the Crlttul's wel'e Brad Doyle, Jordan ·s()nmer, Keven Dorrian, Mike. Emmi, Andy Rick:, · Art l?:()bbins, Alex Kroptkin, .&, ill Hardy and alumnus Edcly Remey. Five teams·· pl.a:yed in the tournament: Bard,. SUNY Albany {SCAM). SUNY New Paltz (GUNK),. SUNY Binghamtoa (EINGO), and Union (CRISPY CRITTURS.) The CrittU!s first draw came . Sommers. plays immaculate defense. aQainst Hobbins. against Bard. Union's team taCtics, good cuts, and crisp encinrance and speed. Uniori quickly fo'i,Jn!l ()9t they were pas_ses coald win a game. The played very well against one of playing a team with much Umon team won by a score of the sections ranked teams but better spe(;dl.llldendurai].ce. The • 15 ... 5. . . lost 11 ... 6. According to the first half etlcLed with the It was then Miller Ttme. The teams captain, Brad Doyle, the Critturs 'be11iud 8 .,2, In the team headed back to centerfield team did well and shows a lot second half ~J;nion showed its to watch the SCAM-BINGO of potential. but needs to get in strength with ·~ood passing and match and partake in the shape. The Critturs are looking good• cuts. Yet the Critturs festivities offered by th~ Bard forward to two more could not Itlatc:h the ~peed and team; several kegs of beer and a teurnaments before the fall endurance of tile Bard team. lh:e band. sectionals in late October. The The fi11al score ended 15-9. The last match. of the day team does need additional Union's se(;.ond draw was was Union vs. BINGO. The players. If anyone is interested· against GUNK. The Critturs captains agreed to pJay a short practices are held every day· in were playing on a much game to 11, Once again Union front of Richmond, at 3:30. smaller field atld snowed how found itself mismatched in Beginners are welcome. Union 21 Union 1 Union 9 Union 0 Union t Union 1 Union o Union 0 Union 7 Union 1 Union 0 Union 3S ·.Union o • Union 2 . . SCOREBOAR:D FOOTBALL FIELD . HOCKEY WOM.EN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S TENNIS MEN'S SOCCER MEN'S RUGBY VOLLEYBALL Hobart 7 Rochester 0 Wells 0 Mt. Holyoke 1 VassarO Albany 8 Vassar9 Middlebury 9 _/North Adams 2 Binghamton 1 Albany 2 Oneonta 0 Vassar 2 Skidmore 0 1.988 P~ge 23 <Hnncnrbimsis SPORTS SPORTS ACCORD.ING TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ The Summer Olympics in Seoull!ave provided the kind of exciterneat and controversy one would expect. The most eagerly awaited clash of the Games, f<>r title for the world's fastest man between American Carl Lewis and Canadian Ben J ohnscn, lived up to its expectati()ns, but also provided the greatest scandal in Olympic history. Johnson shattered his own world record and four sprinters finished under ten seconds for the I1rst time ever. However, Johnson has been stripped of his gold medal after steroids were detected in his urine. 'There have been rumors thathe was framed by a planted water bottle, that wann Seoul .afternoon,. :but official reports have stated thatJohnson shows a histmy ()f steroid use. This will aUow Lewis the opport~:~nity to repeat his four gold medal performance of the L.A. G~mes in '84. These Olympics will be viewed as a success. Security problerns have not arisen .as feared, md several' world records hav~ been set already. Yet, there have been occurances which· will stick in people's memories and tarnish the reputation of the Games. Boxing has provided more thrills after bouts have been decided. A partisan South Korean crowd threw chairs into . the ring and the referee and officials were assaulted by the coaches of a South Korean Rugby ••• Continued from p. 21 was forced to play only 14 men when prop Brian Spring was ejected fmm the match for . attempting to make his elbow one with a11 Oneonta rugger's face. boxer who had lost a dose decision. Two gold medal winning· American switnmers were sent home after pulling off what closely resembled a fraternity prank. While celebra.ting th.eir accomplishments the ·pair stole a small marble lion ftom the lobby of the hotel w.here they were staying. They were · arrested in Seoul's red light · district where they llad been carousing with the statue. These are not examples of the good will and sportsmailship which are supposedly fostered at this honored event The inspirati~nal performance of the Games goes to diver Greg Louganis. During the springboard competition, he cracked his head open ()fl the diving board and required four stitches to close the wound. With little time to recuperate, and still suffering from shock, Louganis needed near perfection to avoid being eliminated from the pteliminary ronnel. He rebounded and was eventually able to capture the gold medal as expected. His courage_ .and determination to persevere should act as a reminder of what the Olympic spirit should do: bring out the admirable, competitive qualities in athletes. opposition lagging prostrate on the ground. John \Weaponhead\ Baker dished the ball off to Sheridan who skipped into the try z.one unscathed for his second and Union's fifth try. The g~rne ended in perfect fashion wllen Union rookie Tom Pearl, playing in his first A-!lide scored the final try of the garne with no time left on the clock. Pearl, in a post game interView at a local restaarant, was qu:oted Spring's ejection didn't faze Union at all, though, Union continued to drive and pleas for mercy were heard emitting from the Oneonta team. \Mercy is for losers\ said Union wing forward terminator Dave Austill, who proceeded to carry 3 Oiteori.ta ruggers and the ball across the try zone for Union's fotLrth try. The other· half of the Terminator Twins, Matt Tayl()t, was quoted as saying, \He should have passed.\ · · as saying, \Boy am I happ)'.\ twenty-two poirits weren't enough· for the R.G.B. ·Cox though and they just kept eomin.g, leaving their He was in fact speaking for the whole team. Union continues on their quest for Upstate domination when they face Siena College away on Saturday. Kickoff is at 1:00 and all are encouraged to go witness history in the making. SHOW YOUR ATHLETIC ABILITY: PLAY IN·TRA-MURALS - ..

•'>\. - .. (/) cc :c (.) >- .co Horace Griffin helps bury Hobart with· 25 carries .for 107 yards.· September 29., 1988 Fewer Mistakes ·Spell . Victory for Gridders . By ANDREW SEEWALD cornerback Elliott Reese, the defense did not have to be on Coming off two mistake~ filled games, Union Coach A1 Bagnoli looked to minimize mistakes and the results were positive as- the Dutchmen collected their first victory of the season last Saturday. \When it comes down to it, football is a game of percentages. We made less mistakes. We had much better field position and fewer penalties,\ Coach Bagnoli said. On Union's fltst possession of the game, Ryan Mason plowed over the left side of the line and into the end zone to score Union's first touchdown of the season and point the D11 tchrnen toward · a 21-7 victory over the visiting Hobart Statesmen (0-2). The run capped an impressive drive that featured a mix of Mason's running and freshman quarterback Brett Russ's passing, inCluding a big gainer to halfback Mason. Starting in place .of injured junior Jim Poirier, Russ was 11 for 21 for 159 yards and one touchdown. Russ did yield two interceptions, b~th to Hobart first of which accounted for the the field as much as in only Hobart tally of the day. previous weeks, and responded After Reese's touchdown tied by sackil1,g Hobart quarterback the score, Russ and the rest of Rob Cunningham 6 times and the Union team were forcing the Statesmen to .net impressive in bouncing right minus 42 yards on 32 cairies back. After Mason went out for the day. Tile big star .among with a pulled hamstring, senior many on the defense was end . tailback Horace Griffin filled in Greg Hallas who bad 5 1/2 of : to the tune of 107 yards. on 25 the 6 sacks. . carries for the game, including * * * a 9 yard dash to put the Dutchmen ahead by 14-7. The run enabled Union to capitalize on what was an impressive 72 yard drive highlighted by a 26 yard pass play to tight end . Mario DiLoreto on third and long. DiLoreto finished the day with 4 receptions for 75 yards. Among his 4 catches was a 22 yard touchdown play late in the fourth quarter, Russ's first touchdown pass at the collegiate level. As it turned out, the Dutchmen defense, after allowing 38 poi~ts to Rochester the previous week, did not permit even as much as a a field goal to Hobart after the interception retU1n. Thanks to an offense that managed .17 first downs, the Union (1-2) ·travels to Albany State on Saturday for the only night game on the schedule. Kickoff is at 7 p.m. The Great Danes (2\1) defeated RPI 20-16 last week. The WRUC Mobile Unit (WMU) will be on hand with the pregame show at 6 p.m. and play-by-play at 7. - UNION-HOBART BOX SCORE Hobart 0 7 0 0- 7 · Union 7 7 o 7-21 . First: U-Mas0l'l14 run (l<rause kick). Second: H-Reese 48 int return (Milmore kick); ·u-Griffin 9 run (Krause kick) Fourth: U-Diloreto 22 pass from Russ (Krause kick) Hobart · First Downs 12 Rushes-yards 32-(-42) Passing yards 151 Passes 14-31-1 Fumbles-lost o-o Penalties-yards 5-45 Union 17 46-183 159 11-21-2 3-1 7-85 OPENI:NG CEREMONIES FOR SPECIAL OLYMPICS TO BE HELD IN TH·E FIELDHOUSE Circle K is sponsoring the opening ceremonies for the special olympi:cs on Friday, Octover 7, 1988 from .7,- 9 pm in the field house. Volunteers are needed in setting up an dorganizing the event for this program. If you are in terested in working with Circle-K and Special Olympics please· contact Jeanne Bouchard at 381-3933. Homecoming '88 October 14, 15, 16 SUPPORT UNION ATHLETICS Women's Soccer Posts First w·in· By MARK ZIMMERMAN goal. w,here Karen Mattsson Associate Spotts Editor was waiting. In heavy As a·partisan crowd of 60 +, coverage, Mattsson put the ball including President Morris and into the net for the only score his wife, watched . on, the of the game. Union played the Women's soccer team posted remainder of the half weH and their first win in five attempts went to halftime in the lead. this. past Monday night, In the second half, the against a Vassar squad which superior conditioned Union went into the game with a teani. came on strong and wore much more successful :record of .down the Vassar squad, taking 5-3. The only score of the control of the game. Union's game came just after the offense pressured Vassar halfway point in the first half. consistently and the defense The goal was .scored by Karen turll~d away all Vassar drives. Matteson. on an outstanding Vassar did .have one good pass from Julie Gano. It was chance at scoring early. in the only Union's seco11d goal of second period, but a nice save the season. was turned in by freshman Neither team dominated play goalie Jill Gershuny. The during the ftrst half but Vassar defense, on the whole, played pressured more consistently. quite well and full~ack ~im· Vass·ar moved the ball well,. yet S~ed bad an ~utstan~g game. the Union defense cleared it ' Missa Blake also had a standout away when it counted. On the perfor~ance as she. played a other side of the field, Union's very aggressive striker role. offense was not having much Along with Cyntl_lia Bl1tler, the. success. They did pressure the. right wing, both 13:lake and she Vassar defense fo:r 5 long pressured Vassar's defense a minutes midway through the ~reat deahnore in the second period, but came away empty~ J:ialf and wore down the With 19:J7 left in the frrst opponents. period, Julie Gallo· too::k a pass Union's t:ecord is now 1-4 from Meghan Carlin on the · (Wednesday's results not right sideline at mid-field. available). The next home Gallo took the ball down into game for the Dutchmen is on the right corner where she frred Monday at 3:30 against a pass dire~tly in front of the · Skidmore. SPORTSWEEK SATURDAY 1 0/1 Football vs. Albany JV Soccer vs. Oneonta Field Hockey vs. Vassar Volleyball vs. Plattsburgh Tourney Rugby vs. Siena MO.N'DAY 10/3 JV Football vs. Hamilton Women's Soccer vs. Skidmore Tuesday 10/4 Field Hockey vs. Hartwick JV Field Hockey vs. Hartwick Volleyball -vs. St. Rose Wednesday 10/5 Men's Soccer vs. Vassar 7:00 Away 11:00Away 1:00Home· Away 1:00Away 4:00Home 3:30 Home 4:00Away' 5:30Away 7:00Away 3:30Home

••• . - Horace Griffin helps bury Hobart with 25 carries for 107 yards .. Terry Campbell scampe:rs b·y the Binghamton de.fense. September 29, 1988 Fewer Mistakes Spell Victory for Gridders By ANDREW SEEWALD cornerback Elliott Reese, the defense did not have to be on Coming off two mistake- filled games, Union Coach Al Bagnoli looked to minimize mistakes and the results were positive as the Dutchmen collected their first victory of the season last Saturday. \When it comes down to it, football is a game of percentages. We made less mistakes. We had much better field position and fewer penalties,\ Coach Bagnoli said. On Union's first possession of the game, Ryan Mason plowed over the left side of the line and into the end zone to score Union's first touchdown of the season and point the Dutchmen toward a 21-7 victory over the visiting Hobart Statesmen (0-2). The run capped an impressive drive that featured a mix of Mason's running and freshman quarterback Brett Russ's passing, including a big gainer to halfback Mason. Starting in place of injured junior Jim Poirier, Russ was 11 for 21 for 159 yards and one touc.hdown. Russ did yield two interceptions, both to Hobart first of which accounted for the the field as much as in only Hobart tally of the day. previous weeks, and responded After Reese's touchdown tied by sacking Hobart quarterback the scme, Russ and the rest of Rob Cunningham 6 times and the Union team were forcing the Statesmen to net impressive in bouncing right minus 42 yards on 32 carries back. After Mason went out for the day. The big star among with a pulled hamstring, senior many on the defense was end tailback Horace Griffin filled in Greg Hallas who had 5 1/2 of to the tune of 107 yards on 25 the 6 sacks. carries for the game, inciuding a 9 yard dash to put the Dutchmen ahead by 14-7. The run enabled Union to capitalize on what was an impressive 72 yard drive highlighted by a 26 yard pass play to tight end Mario DiLoreto on third and long. DiLoreto finished the day with 4 receptions for 75 yards. Among his 4 catches was a 22 yard touchdown play late in the fourth quarter, Russ's first touchdown pass at the collegiate level. As it turned out, the Dutchmen defense, after allowing 38 points to Rochester the previous week, did not permit even as much as a a field goal to Hobart after the interception return. Thanks to an offense that managed 17 first downs, the * * * Union (1-2) travels to Albany State on Saturday for the only night game on the schedule. Kickoff is at 7 p.m. The Great Danes (2-1) defeated RPI 20-16 last week. The WRUC Mobile Unit (WMU) will be on hand with the pregame show at 6 p.m. and play-by-play at 7. UNION-HOBART BOX SCORE Hobart 0 7 0 0- 7 Union 7 7 0 7- 21 First: U-Mason 14 run (Krause kick). Second: H-Reese 48 int return (Milmore kick); U-Griffin 9 run (Krause kick) Fourth: U-lJiLoreto 22 pass from Russ (Krause kick) First Downs Rushes-yards Passing yards Passes Fumbles-lost Penalties-yards Hobart 12 32-(·42) 151 14-31-1 0-0 5-45 Union 17 46·183 159 11·21-2 3·1 7-85 OPENING CEREMONIES FOR SPECIAL OLYMPICS TO BE HELD IN THE FIELDHOUSE Circle K is sponsoring the opening ceremonies for the special olympics on Friday, Octover 7, 1988 from 7 - 9 pm in the field house. Volunteers are needed in setting up an dorganizing the event for this program. If you are in terested in working with Circle-K and Special Olympics please contact Jeanne Bouchard at 381-3933. Homecoming '88 October 14, 15, 16 SUPPORT UNION ATHLETICS Women's Soccer Posts First Win· By MARK ZIMMERMAN goal, where Karen Mattsson Associate Sports Editor was waiting. In heavy As a partisan crowd of 60 +, coverage, Mattsson put the ball including President Morris and into the net for the only score of the game. Union played the his wife, watched on. the remainder of the half well and Women's soccer team posted went to halftime in the lead. their first win in five attempts this past Monday night, In the second half, the against a Vassar squad which superior conditioned Union went into tile game with a team came on strong and wore much more successful record of down the Vassar squad, taking 5-3. The only score of the control of the game. Union's game came just after the offense pressured Vassar halfway point in the first half. consistently and the defense The goal was scored by Karen turned away all Vassar drives. Matteson on an outstanding Vassar did have one good pass from Julie Gallo. It was chance at scoring early in the only Union's second goal of second period, but a nice save the season. was turned in by freshman Neither team dominated play goalie Jill Gershuny. The during the firSt half but vassar defense. on the whole, played pressured more consistently. quite well and fullb.ack Kim Vassar moved the ball well, yet S~ed had an outstanding game. the Union defense cleared it ' Missa Blake also had a standout away when it counted. On the performance _as she. played a other side of the field, Union's very aggresstve striker role. offense was not having much Along with Cynthia Butler, the success. They did pressure the right wing, both Blake and she Vassar defense for 5 long pressured Vassar's defense a minutes midway through the great deal more in the second period, but came away empty. half and wore down the With 19:37 left in the first opponents. period, Julie Gallo took a pass Union's record is now 1-4 from Meghan Carlin on the (Wednesday's results not right sideline at mid-field. available). The next home Gallo took the ball down into game for the Dutchmen is on the right comer where she frred Monday at 3:30 against a pass dire~tly in front of the Skidmore. SPORTSWEEK SATURDAY 10/1 Football vs. Albany JV Soccer vs. Oneonta Field Hockey vs. Vassar Volleyball vs. Plattsburgh Tourney Rugby vs. Siena MONDAY 10/3 JV Football vs. Hamilton Women is Soccer vs. Skidmore Tuesday 10/4 Field Hockey vs. Hartwick JV Field Hockey vs. Hartwick Volleyball vs. St. Rose Wednesday 10/5 Men's Soccer vs. Vassar 7:00 Away 11:00 Away 1:00 Home Away 1:00 Away 4:00Home 3:30Home 4:00Away· 5:30Away 7:00Away 3:30 Home

