- .... - ....... --. _., ...:;:.... College 1877 CXVII, No. 13 Schenectady~ New York February 4, 1988 Schenectady firemen on alert outside the :College Center Monday. The near•disasterwas c~usedby smoldering insulation. Mond~y's \Fire\ Puts College Center on Alert By CHRISTINE HONG and R. REED WHIDDEN News Editors The source for the two fire alarms this past Monday at the College Center has been pin· pointed to a · small area of smoldering insulation faU!ld in the Cel).ter'S attic, according to the official Schenectady fire department report issued earlier this week. The first reporting of the smell of smoke occurred at 11:53 p.m., with the subsequent pulling of the alarm at 11:54 p.m. Upon the arri.vql of the Schenectady fire trucks, ap- proximately fifteen firemen thoroughly checked the building for the source of the odgr. At that time, no evidence .of the fire could be found, and the smell- had dissipated. The building was then deemed safe forre·entry. · At approximately 1:30 p.m. later that afternoon, the co!ltrol center operator received · a telephone call from the College Bookstore, located on the first and second floors of the College Center. The caller notified security that there was a noticeable odor of sm()ke coming from the air vents. Physical Plant's utilities manager Dick Johnston, responded to the call, and, with assistance made a systematic search of the premises a~ain. Upon search of the attic, \a hazy atmosphere in the southeast corner- of the building,\ according to the official fire tlepartment's: report. Upon further examination, smoldering em:l;Jers were disc()vered embedded in the insulation. The flre alarm wa·s pulled for the secmd time at 1: 46 p.m. The Scheilectady fire department responded to the call-this time knowing the . origin of the smoke. They · pr-oceeded to remove the smoldering insulation and, then, wet down tlte area twelve inches in diameter. Other pr-ecautions made were t~ establish a fire watch for the following 24 hour period, once every hour. · The cause of the smoldering insulation was the direct con- tact of a lead light used by an electrician, confirmed the fire report. T-he elect1~i<!ian stated that the portable lig:ht bad.been secured above the insulation while he was working; yet, it had !Jeen in contad with the insulated layer for a brief length of time. The electrician had been subcontracted by a r'Oofing firm whicll had been hiTed by the College to install the electric~! supply-for heating coils located along the edge of the roof of the College Center. The system was hooked up in an effort to prevent incidents Stich as last week~s heavy snow falls and icicle formations around the roof. International ·Porn Movie Scre·ening •• AIDS :Summit Held In Pending Open London Meeting, Student Poll Prev~·ntion, Film Committee to Make Educat-ion, and Retatdation Final Decision Discussed By R. REEDWHIDDEN New-s :Editor On Monday, January 25, the Scllenectady <ra:zette reported on an upcomi11g international AIDS StmliJJit. For the following tlrree days, 145 nations gathertl!d ill London to discuss the to(lk ()£ AIDS. This was the largest a~semblance of government ministers ever held that focused ()U j:ust one health problem. Attre11ding the con- ference wei\e 131 health ministers, a!ld 14 other government advis()rs. The conferen~e had certain stated aims. rh·tl first, to draw up World Heailt:h Organization · (WHO) guidEUnes for the prevention andc()ntrol of AIDS. The second, to ,give an update on the global .AIDS situation, with AIDS' e!fcects on the economy and the · soci:ety. Lastl:y, the par- ticipators of tJlE conference would review n~tional policies concerning thE retardation of the spread of &IDS, including public educ::ltion of the epidemic. \WHO had n~carded 75,392 AIDS cases in l::JO countries as of January l:t. But (it is See NEEDLES, pg. 2 By DAVE GULLIVER Editor-in-Cirlef .For now, the. Film Corn- mittee•s pornographic filin is f;till planned for Feb. 24., though ;~ctions next week may change tllat. The film had been cancelled ·· .Jest Tuesday as a result of an il!lformal meeting between the F'ilm C()lnmittee chairpersons, Pete Leventhal and· Kelley Park, .and Stephanie Hirnak and Denise Feins.od, . rEpresentatives of the Students A.gainst Pornography group. That decision was overturned at last week's Student Forum meeting. The Forwn declared that the decision was \null and VqJt<l\ because only two of the fi-ve Film Committee members voted on the issue. Forum pr-esident Michael Hiller said tllat he wants to \emphasize tlliat the decision (to overturn tlte original decision) was stTictly on procedural gr-ounds.\ Tlle Forwn passed a recommendation that the Film Committee conduct a student pall and sponsor an open m-eeting where concerned parties could give their opinion. After that, the Film Committee m;ust take a new, formal vote of all five members. Forum members stressed . that the student poll should not necessarily dictate the Film Cvmmittee's vote. Geri Mackey, Forum vice president fj)r administration, said after the recommendation that the student poll was only to give the Committee a sense of student opinion. Junior Trustee Wendy Endress noted that the poll will take pressure off the Film Committee by giving them a basis for their decision. \[the issue is] not censorship or the First Amendment, it's Union using its money and facilities for the showing or a pornographic film.'' Leventhal was present at the Forwn meeting and readily agreed with the recom- mEndations. He said, \Perhaps we were too hasty and not going by the rules of the game.\ On Mcnday, he announced plans to have a formal open meeting 8 p.m. Tuesday . Feb. 9 in the College Center Atrium and to conduct the poll during the following days. The Film Committee will vote the following Monday. Leventhal said that his goal See PORN, pg. 2 and editorial on pg. 10 Delta Phi \Irresponsibility\ Discipli.ned For Towards Pledge Class By DAVE GULLIVER ' .EditCJr•in.·Chief Delta Phi fi:\a'ternity's pledge class inductioll has been in- definitely suspEnded and the house has heED. placed on in- definite social probation as a result of what .A:Ssistant Dean of Students Freel L'\lfvrd calls the fraternity's ' 'il'responsibility\ in handling its pledges and the social atrnospl!er~ of the house. The deci:si•on. released Tuesday, was b.ased on a report fr«lrn the Safety and Security Department and reports from the resident advisors of two of th.e fraternity's pledges, See editorial page IO One instance involved a p[edge who slept through a fire . alarm in his dormitory last w<eek; the resident advisors discovered him and judged that he was drunk. Residence Life St<lff had expressed concern ab(Hit him and another pledge o11a different floor. There's also a case of a student, whom Alford did not identify as a member of Delta Phi, who fell a11d received injuries requiring stitches while in the house d11ring the first week of the teYrn. He said that his punishment was \treating symptoms\ of the larger problem: that houses tend to glorify drinking exploits and the pledges therefore view drinking as the key to ac- ceptability in the house. According to Alford's decision, the present pledge class cannot be inducted into the fraternity until such time as the house can \demonstrate that they had a pledge program that was philosophically sound and... fits into an acceptable developmental scheme.'' The social probation was a result of the ''inability to monitor social life in the house in the way the College expects.'' He will be meeting with Delta Phi President Douglas Tulley bi- weekly to review pledge ac- tivities. Tulley said that he will keep records of those activities. He had no comment on the decision early Tuesday night. Delta Phi was planning to discuss the decision at a house meeting lat-er that night. .Alford said that both in- :t cidents were the result of the - h()use serving alcohol to ~ . minors. He also said that the d inddents were not hazing but al raiher an example of i:l:! \[rresponsibility\ that the ~· . brothers in the house did not set g a proper social tone. ~ Student Forum Photo of the Week: President Morris and his wife, Er.id, enjoy last week's Freshman. Dinner. 'Freshman Elections Tomorrow VOTE! (I ~ \ .' 'I .

. ' 1 ~ I l • ·1 1 fage 2 CONCORDIENSIS, :P-ebr~tar~ 4, 1988 NEWS ANALYSIS CAMPAIGN '88: PART THREE TOP TEN . NICKNAMES if08 DAN BATHER THE ) > IOWA \. . ... THE PRESS ... \CAUCUSESJ .. As far as Gary Hart's ~Laim that because of the sensatiQilal press we have put image over substance in our choice of government officials, I fell Olle man's bad luch does mit cellfor a swift generalization amut tlle misgivings of the p1:•ess. Particularly since Watergate, the press has established :itself as a fourth branch of. govern- ment who wi'l bring to the filre insightful .nuances · tb:at otherwise would be missed by the .pUblic. By: Daniel J. Keniry 10. Howly-Jowly 9. Ulti'mate Truth · · a. The Grinch ByALEXGARI)NER In the last 20 years, the media has become the principal linkage between candidates and voters in national campaigns,. and voters have grown to rely- on the media for an w- terpretation of, as well as ill- formation about, the political campaigns. In the process, the meida, by identifying whicll iss\les are important and the likelihood of 'Success for the candidates, has become nClt only reporters of the news but also important actors in the electoral process. . Does the media hold too mucl:l power over the way the can- didates are viewed by the public? And more importantly~ are the presidential races .offhe last decade or so, pro.ducillg inore celebrities than statesmen? The .1988 Presidential CSil· didates certainly have had an unprecedented amount of media scrutiny. With Gary HaM and Senator Joe Biden irreparably damaged, and with the astounding publicity. given to the confrontation between Dan Rather and Vice Presiden:t George Bush, it is very BIJ- parent how television can alter the direction of a campaign with breathtaking speed. As former Senator Gary HaM said recently, ''We have created a media filter that tives tU reality short and sweet- ~ sweet as possible. The filter let~ tbrough simplicity, tactics and personality. It resists com~ plexity, strategic thought ancl genuine character.\ Issues like Iran-Contra tbat pique the p11blic's inter~st a11:d don't call for explanation are a reporter's dream. This scandal will haunt Geerge Bush ootil he satisfactorily explains his role to the American people. In the infamous interview, which was held last Monday on the CBS Evening News, Rather for ten minutes agr~~sively tried to nail down the Vice President's role in the Iran;, Contra affair. Up to now, ·Mr. Bush has hardly been con- vincing about what he did or did not know. Gary Hart complams that the media has chosen it more im- portant to fly six reporters a thousand miles to hide in a candidate's bushes and peek in his windows than to ask the President why he l~t 250 marines lose their lives in a barracks in Beirut. Joe Biden also was 'hit like wildfire with a press onslaught about his plagarizing speeches from British Labour leader Neil Kinnock that resulted in his pulling out of the race. So, the question is: What is wrong with the intense scrutiny modern campaigns are going through? Doesn't the American public have the right to know whether Bush knew that the Administration was selling arms to Iran in retW'n for American hostages, and sen- ding the profits illegally to the Nicaraguan rebels? The an- swers could tell much about his fitness to be President. Mr. Rather had every right to press the matter, and Mr. Bush had every reason to believe it would be raised- however of- fended he pretended to be on TV. Although the public say tlley want the ne~works to ill<!lllde ideas and new policies illt() their nightly news, bu the time Jleople turn on the news after vrCJrlting all day, they prefer to be called .from reality, not made t() face it. There is a limit tlpon the attention the public is yullJing t() devote to politics. This \Vould be true even if television fulfilled its functions to the utmost. The f!act of the matter is jllSt b~canse a former actor, d~pite his often misguided policies, - 'lS managed to instill spirit and loyalty in the American people and win the last tWQ electi()IlS does not mean that Qllr n.e~ president and future presidents will be solely masters a11d manipulaters of the video .. There is still more to the · . process than that. People are aware, e~pecially after Reagan, of politicians who manipulate the press and George Bush 0r Garr Hart or any candidate who triesto leave a stone unturned will most likely find the move fatal. Although this may wee<! out some potentially q11alified candidates, it also will make sure the candidates' put faux pas and inconsisten.ciEs are brought to the pllblic's atten.ti<>n before they gain p<>wer, I really · think that bY and large today's. voter probably is as \Well in- formed as he's ever bee11. And, I think the. candidates pmbably are better than they lutve been, and in spite of the concern over the last five presidents beillg unpopular, I doubt tlley're really much worse than they · were historically. Rescheduled Porn Movie Remains Topic of Debaie Continued from page 1 group's organizers, said the were saying, 'what can I do, was to be as objective as table's purpose _is to inform where can I siLfi?'~' . possible in the meeting and ill people on the 1ssue of POfm At ~ast week s Stude~t F Clr:um the poll question. ,10graphy before neld: week s mee?ng, Jeff BerkoWitz, ~ce- . . . poll. prestdent for ac:adellll~, The meeting J,S now sched~ed There is also a statement to questioned the validity ()f the to be a formal pre~entati~n, sign at the table which reads: Students Against Pom()grapbr where the gr:~ups ?neither Sl!le ''We, the tmdersigned, believe group; they h~dnotappearedat of the q!lestion will each ha\:e that Union College money and Forum meetmgs and bad n()t tfn:e~ mmutes to p~esent tbe•r facilities should not be \lSed for presented a list of members. opUllon, two ~nutes f<Jr the shoWing of a pornographic Hirnak said Mo11day, however, reb!.!ttal and a ~ute f~r ~ film, and ask that the Film that the group now has an ac- closmg statement. Hiller wil;l·t.e Committee cancel the film tuallist of about 25 members. the moderator at the meeting, scheduled to be shown on Leventhal said. February 24, 1988.\ This week, the Students Feiilsod said that after the Against Pornography groQp has first day at the table, the sponsored a discussion table ill statment had 130 signatures. the College Center. Stephallie She said that they had not Hirnak and Denise Feinsod, th~ planned a. petition, \but peo~le THIS WEEK'S EVENTS: Thursday, February .4 . 11 :00 a.m.: College Cente-r Aud. The Min!m'B Hour presents harry Edwards, U.D. Berkele)l sociologist •. on \Issues in Modern American Sports. • 4:45p.m. ·Steinmetz Hall, ltoom 106. Physics Dept. talk: Dr. Arthur Eisankraft on \The lntematlonal Physics Olympiad. • 9-11 p;m. College Center 1\ud. \Make Me Laugh\ Contest. Prizes awarded. 10 p.m.-Mir::lnight. College ~nter pub. Cabaret. Friday, February 5 ·· 3:30 p.m. HUM., Roorn 213. Phil. Dept. colloquia: Professor Elizabeth Kirk on \Dame J11lian of Noewich•s 'Unkllowing': Doubt and Discourse.\ 5-9.:30 p.m. College Center .Atrium. Dotchmen's Night. 7, 9, 11 p.m. College Center Aud. ·Film; Believers. 8-10 p,m. College Center; Public Speaking Competition . Saturday, February ti 7, 9, 11 p,m. College Cen18f'Aud. Film: Believers Sunday, February 7 . 2 p.m._Colklge Center Aucl. Film: BelieWrl (also 9, 11 p.m.) 3 p.m; Memorial Ohipel. Union ~lOMe Club \People have to reali2e wllat the issue is,\ Feinsodsaid. ''It's not censorship or the First .Afrl~r.;:hnent, it's Union. using its money and facilities for the sh()wing of a pornographic film.\ The Mgdla & Sexualitv: Wednesday, ·February 1 Oth at 8 p.m. in Old Chapel Sponsored by AWA·RE, Sigma· Chi a11d Panhellenic Council 7. High School debating team champion, twq years in a row a 6. \·Mr. Vice-.President! Mr. Vice:..Presi- dent!'' 5. Dan \Wish I could be on Letterman\ Rather 4. Dead-Air Dan 3. Dan Blather 2. That guy on CBS with the funny ey~­ brows and the toupee 1 . The de-wimpiflcator Controversy Over Distribution of Clean Needles. Deliberated ·Continued from page 1 estimated) that the acutal worldwide toll is twice that, because many cas.es are not reported\ (Schenectady Gazette): In the United States alone there are 51,361 cases ot AIDS as of January 4. ,From the United States, fo\lr different health officials attended the conference. Second in com- mand at the · Depattment of Health and Human Services Dr. Robert E. Windom, Dr. Gary Noble, deputy ·director of the Atlanta-hased Centers for Disease Control in charge of AIDS activity, Dr. Peter J. Fischinger, AIDS coordinator for the Public Health Service, and the S\lrgeon General C. Everett Koop were those at the Summit. One issue the Surgeon General hit on at the conference was testing. The officials are planning to test for AIDS at a major university this spring. Which university it will be, as of yet, is undetermined. It will most likely be one in a large city with about 25,000 students. On a more local note, plans are in the works for the slowing An AIDS Map of New York Numo~r of AlbS cases per 16.000 peop1e. oy commun1ty board~ N~w York Ctft ;.eaUh o~fic:a1s estmale 1hat there are several times as many AIDS· ~ t~l~tes~unesses_ana·manr:more res1den1s wnohave teen mlec1ed but are not vet show•ng SyMptons D· 60· tos.cases of AIDS per 10,000 people ti)45·59 ~ 30·44 EJ 15·29 IE H4 o- Unpo~ ulared areas of the spread .of the virus. In Albany, Governor Cuomo and his administration decided to allow New Y ()rk City to give clean needles to hundreds .of addicts. TI!is is an experiment to help stop the spread of AIDS. Since it is the use of dirty needles that promotes the AIDS virus, it is hClped that giving addicts clean needles will help eliminate this AIDS medium. However, this action has been deliberated <Jver seriously, due to the ethical and. moral con- troversy ofthisissue. The New Vo:r:k City Depart- ment of Healtl\ has.l.\eveloped a map showing.1he pattern of t_he .concentration of AIDS;' ·with education and !)lans like the one of the clean needles, perhaps this map can .change. Union is doing its part with education. In addition to the experts coming to spea}t at the·()ne day seminar on AIDS ()Il February 18, two movies will lle shown on the topic of AIDS. The first is \AIDS: Red11cing the Risks;'' and the sec<md is \AIDS: Everything You and Your Family Needt{) Know But Were Afraid to Ask.\ · SrNI(\ iJe,a10f?fO llY ~'lfC'\-~~~\ .. ~ Eau S..1/l AIDS Sttv'n ((Otltlnd/Or lrQm Nf:'olr :·)1,. Cti-Y Ctc>itlrr-_,~,.-.,:1 keMh d.ttotol(td Hlttr.dte-t The ·undergraduate Review has ex1ended jts deadline to EEB. 8th Sut>mit your social sciences and: humanities papers · to Bc>:ac 953 : ~~ ·' j. ) I I ·i 1 ~1, !\i :~r r,:, I ~· ! ' i : t i' ~ 1 ~ : f . I . ' i (~ J I all I po ! I R1 I m wJ ':;! C< ,. t; be co . .. m Ot th Ju l'; th ' de •j '·\ _so ·I ca :j C< ·i .. ::1: ;i r f ~ \ 2 w I a: ....J ~ a: ' ~ .. 1 w l :a: I J:: I \ i 0 ' z w )· F I ~ l u. z ! ~· ~ ; I 1/J I ~ I ' ~ I ; f Q.. !· :. 1( H L H ... l r ! u ll u ' il '· r II . j ·S J c f ·., ( (] I r ' ! ~ 3 \. ( ~~j ( li E .. f .. 1 J ,. I ,. ! ; .. , :~ r: ,, ... '·I ·'I ' ·:. ··I i.' ~ ! ti·: r I ~ r.

. ,. ' ' ., ' ' j I ,, '• ~ l I I 1 .'' 1., ? ! '·! I i . I 1.' •! Page J; Alumni Representative\ Statements for the. Class of '88 Pam Conners Hi, my name is Pam Conners and -I am running for the position of Alumni Council Representative. I promise to make no flashy speech as to why I should be your Alumni Council Representative .. I have been involved with a variety of college fUllctions from Ad- missions and . Freshman Orientation straight through to the AlUilllli ReU.nion held each June. Remember this position that requires responsible, dedicated and energetic people, _so vote for the best qualified candidate ()D Friday. Vote PAM CONNERS. Thank you. David Cohen It's hard to believe that our undergraduate days are almost over; tomorrow we will have an opportunity to shape Union's future. The Alumni Council tepresents.allof Union's classes and serves. as an advisory body to the college. We have seen much turmoil these past four . years; I promise you that I will actively represent the Class of- 1988 to insure our voice in decisions that will be made in the years to come. *VOTE* Nott News By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Editor-in-chief \Replacement of the ~ntire roof is a matter of utmost · · \ \Furth d 1· • urgency... . er e ay m undertaking repairs will result in greater damage and restoration costs... \ (The Nott Memorial Report: A Historic ·Structure Report) These statements reflect the conclusions of the architectural firm of Mendel, Mesick, and Cohen concerning the condition of the Nott Memorial as reported in 1973. To date; 15 years later, the repairs have not yet begWl and each year the condition of the Nott deteriorates visibly. Growing concern lias been expressed over the decay of this structure. The Trustees .have been presented with a report which Keith Bemis compiled; and the administration is also well aware of the w-gency of this problem. No concrete plans for restoration of the Nott have been made. As a result of their concern, several students: Keith Bemis, David Wachtel and Christopher Pike, have established an in- dependent group, the Restore the Nott Committee, to ad- vocate the restoration of this historical building. The primary gcals o£ this organization include: educating the community about the Nott and its present conditionf examining possibilities for potential 'ilsage, and raising funds for the restoration and renovation of this building. The Restore The Nott Coinmittee will hold a . press conference today at 3:00 p~m. in SS016 for anyone \'ho is interested in more information. · · · ··1s&•E Jh:e Hair Studio Ethan ·Starr After spendi11g almost four Of the most important years of my · life being educ.ated at Union, I have observed' rnany facets of student life and college operations. As one . of your Alumni Council Represen- tatives, I feel :r can serve my . fellow classmates well .by worki!)g with the· Alumni Office and the Administration to make sure that the· Class of 19~B has an active voice in the · many important decisions that the College will face after we gl.\'aduate in hme. Within the next five years planning will begin on the expa11sion of Shaffer Library, restoration of the Nott 1Mernorial, and . celebration of the College's bi<!entennial. Additiollal con- cerns in the future include buildings and grounds, dor- mitory spacer ,and futher im- pl\'ovement of academic, athletic, and recl\'eational facilities such as the C()mputer center and the Girting Center. As a student I have worked with both f!lCulty and ad- ministration .on two com- mittees, the Campus Operations C~mmittee during ·my J univi\ year, and this year on the Miuerva Committee. For both my Sophomore and Jmrior · years, and fhe summer in between, r w()rked as a Student Consultant at the Mfice of Computer Services. I am a Pvlitical Science major and make an effort to keep up with current events. by reading The New York Times every day and Concordiensi.S. each week. I wvuld very much like to represent ou:r class after graduation, a11d will greatly appreciateyou:r support. Please remember to exercise your right to vote tomorrow in the College Centel' from 9 to 4. Tllank yo11 very much. StaUstical Lab Hours ss 001' Sunday thru \Thursday 7:00·11 :00 p.m. Tuesday 2:3()-4:30 p.m. Wednesday and Friday 3:1£,..5:15 p.m. ·374~:0351 557 Nott St. Hair and Tanning Studio PERM SPECIAL $40.00. WitH .fREE MANICURE . - Unisex, Walk-Ins Welcome TANNING 100 Visits For $79.00 NAIL TIPS Regularly $45.00 Now $29.95 TANNING CAN BE SKARED BV TWO PEOPLE ~ j •• • ' k' ' . t,,.,_ ... Chris Hartmann ¥ :-, ' ~ -~ -~ .. The Alumni Council is an important part of the ·campus because of the work it does in improving and upgrading the campus facilities. I would like to urge all the seniors to get out to vote this year because strong representation on the part of our class in this body could be very important in directing its efforts. We .are the last graduating class that remembers the old Dutch Hollow Pub, the Skellar as it used to be, and Carnegie when it used to be primarily for · the students. Because of this, we are the first and only class able to compare student life as it was then to the way it is now . The class of 1988 attended Union during a period of great change. Because of this I think we all realize the tremendous impact which altunni can have on the campus, and therefore student life. I ~ running for our class's alumni council position because I think that I will be able to effectively convey the lessons learned bv the class of 1988 to our fell()w almnus. During my four years Bt · Union I have been involved in a wide range of activities which have allowed me to view tbe student-fa~ulty-adminstration relationship on a number of levels. As a memeber of .a fraternity and a soccer player I understand the importance of the athletic department and the greek system to the campus. As a tour guide I learned the im- portance of having adequate and well-kept facilities to support the continued strength of the college. Finally, thro11gh . my invovlement in the founding and operation of the In- ternational House I have learned the. importance of having a variety of well sup- ported and active student ac- tivities on the campus. I thihk that my broad range of ac- tivities at Union have allowed me to get a true sense of the pulse of Union College, and especially its students. I offer you no promises except those .of memory, vision and sincere interest. Thank you for your time and for four good years together. KEEP THE CARN'EGIE NAME Tom Christopher Hi fellow seniors! I am Tom Christopher, and I would like you to consider voting for me as a representative to the Alutnni Council. With plans of con- tinuing my education in New York State, I'm sure that I will be .able to serve as an active representativefor the class .of 1988. As you may know, in my four years I have worked very in a number of academic, athletic; and musical areas. It has been my fortune to play a key role in the rebirth of the music department through the in- ception of our Pep Band and Chamber Orchestra. In ad- dition, it has been my intention to support our varsity swim team through two seasons without a pool, and now, as you . can imagine, the rewards are . tremendous with our new facility. Throughout both these ex-· periences, I have learned a lot about what makes Union 'tick.' We see, as students, professors, department charimen, and administrators on a more or less daily basis. Their actions · and decisions, we presume, are methodical and follow a set pattern; day to day, term to term. This, however, is not the case. If we remember back to the construction the last two years, this campus is changing aU the time, and our various administrators have been adapting and reconsidering our physical campus plans and our · academic curriculum con- tinuously. A vital and com- pelling force in this dynamic institution is the Alumni Council. I have interacted, sometimes, only briefly, with various alumni in establishing and planning for our Pep Band, and in christening our pool last Jwte with the Re-UnionSwimMeet. I have learned that as alumni of Union, we are able to contribute to the continued development of this fine instition for many multiples of the years we spencl as undergraduates. The Alumn: council . must be ready to act wholeheartedly in an effort to continually improve Union's reputation as a small liberal arts college with fine engineering and science programs. As we approach our bicentennial year, I can forset many challenges and respon sibilitieS for the Alumn .. Council. I am prepared to givt it my all while representing thl Class of '88 for the first five year position .. Thank you for the support of your vote! MHXaMJI IOp6atieB Union Review of Books February Sessions Wednesday, February 10,1988 College Center Atrlum 1:00pm Moderators: Professors Char.les Gati. Polittcal Science and Robert Sharl~;~t, Political Science 'Gorbachev's PERESTROIICA now on sale at the campus booi<stora March Selection: . Cha<>s: Making a. New Science by James Gleik (1987). l ~fttU:.e ........................... ~ L1SZ!tili<i1»&li JQUIU!!1 111:, us:;we::.;:o.'('llK'~~,-~::cp Qi;US~~J

Page 4 CONCORDlENSlS, February 4, I 988 Freshmen Representative Stateme,nts . , r' Mark Richter It would be a privilege to re!)l'esent the Class of 1991 in tl\iliS year'~ Student Forum. · alumni gymnasiwn. The space is. there and funds could easily be raiSed through a daiquiri and margarita' fund raising party. Don't you deserve an all year tan thrown in for fJ:~ee .in next year's $18,000 Schenectady Winter Survival Package? After all, a fifty below wind chill doesn't seem as bad if you're tanned. These proposals are only a few of the many diverse ideas which I have for the betterment of your stay at this fine institution of higher education. New ideology and new ideas are what freshmen have to offer and I have just that. Peter Katz As Freshman representati\e · to the St11dent Forwn I PetEr Katz, plm to do exactly as mp Community, but we need a unifying force. In our past sb( months.at Union, I have come to know many of you. I have had much experience in student government in the past and feel that I am qualified to be a strong link between the class of Hl91 and the administration. I am willing to spend the time needed to insure 'that your four years at Union C()llege are as a<)ademicaUy and·· socially fulfilling as possillle~ We are Union College and together we can achieve oW' g()als. Vote for me - MICHELE MARTIN • for Freshman Representative. · Jobanna White The Student Government performs a vital fupction on -our campus. It allows students representation in ad- ministrative decisions con- cerning them. J'ust recently, our · Student Forum has been in .. volved in the debate over. G,el ~~~r student government e~perience includes junior, setli() r and permanent class presldent of a student body of . 3!10 stadents. !!V.'Iy- objective is to com- tntinicate ' with those I Feporesent, know their opinions o11: <lev eloping issues and insure tba:t their viewpoints are fully C«J!I$idered by the Forwn. A r~i»J!esentative must reach out to 1lle class on issues and be cEMain that its concerns and Cc:lllSEnStlB become the major fa~()r in Forum decisions. title -will state-represent tile class of Ul91 in all facets on tile Student Forum. I will make decisions based on the in- formati()n you, my classmates~ give to me. My goal is to make Union the best .possible place for all of us,. not to win a popularit;v contest. If you care for the well-· bemg ofou.r school as much a:s,I -. do, I kllow you will make t:he right choice. And remember, you c~n help Union tomorro?V · Rosalyn Morse · .. time and the poi:'nographic . moviescheduledinFebruary. It i~ necessary to have a voicethat will l\'epresent you. Your representative must be open- minded, aware of your needs, and wilJingtospeak out. I would like to assume such a respon- sibfiity. As a qlass, we have only been together for a short time, yet our inv-olvement in the Student Government is crucial. The Gi-vn the opportunity to rEpresent the Class of 1991, I will make every effort to fulfill :tllese responsibilities. Suzanne Shaker ILet me first introduce myself, Hell(), my name is Suzanne Sh;aker. Next let me ask all you fresbmen to come oat and vote Pii!lay, February 5, for YOUR Eresllman representative. Each a11d every one of your votes is VeTY important in this election, a~td so are your ideas and o))inicms regarding school plldes and campus activities. thoe Student Forum is the pl;~ce to voice your concerns, · tr!~m.plaints and suggestions. If I ;aw elected to the student forwn ;:~1!11 a freshman representative I a:n determined to bring your id.\Eas and concerns to the at- telltion of the F()rwn. We have ibee11 here for five months and mow it is time for the freshmen '(()! become more involved in .eampus decisions. By voting for :ne I can assure you that your -voice will be heard. Hans Schwarz Ellen Nichols As a candidate for Freshman Representative, I am not going to make any promises that I might not be able to keep but, if elected, I do promise to try my best to improve situations we as students are not satisfied with. I am not happy with the check cashing hours, for instance, and would like to see them ex- tended, If any student on campus is not comfortable with check cashing or any other service, please feel free to let me know. I would like to thank all of the Freshmen who signed my petittion enabling me to be placed on the ballot. THANK YOU!! Sue Porell What our Freshman class needs is someone who is committed, enthusiastic, and determined. My name is Sue Porell and I am all those things. I am willing to sacrifice my time and effort for the needs of my class and I want to hear what you have to say . As a new class, we need someone with leadership qualities to represent us. I have experience in dealing with faculty and students because in high school I was a student council representative and I was delegatedthe .responsibility of being a liaison for my class. As co-editor of the yearbook, I reached the entire student body which was approximately the same size as our class. I have several ideas which by voting for Peter Katz today-. John Meier My name is John Meier aBd I'm running for Freshman Repre:sentative. The Student Forum has established m~ay objectives this year that nEed the input and participation ofan active representative. My objective, as your Fresl:i- man Representative is to voice the attitudes, complaints, and. interests of the Freshman Class. I will do this by com- munic~ting on a regular basis with the members of the CLa:ss of 19!l1. Naturally, the views ~f the freshmen class must lle amassed and channelled in an orgaiJi.2ed manner in order for the class·of 1991 to be effectively represented. My hope is for each member of the Freshman . Class to survey the field ()f candidates and vote JOHN MEIER tomorrow. · Michele Martin Tired of winter in Schenec- tady. As your freshman Student li'orum representative, I will :qJonsor legislation to move the eampus during the winter term t«l St. Croix. If my colleagues fefeat this, my alternate plan ealls for doming the campus, k:eeping out not only snow, but lllso the Doids. If my prior two j»lans are deemed· fiscally un- fliasible, I will push for the llltJtanation of tanning beds to · eomplement our new iXJOl in the will help the freslunan class My name is Michele Martin become more recognized. These and I aJl1 running for Freshman include concerns of Representative to the Stu.~ent registration, gel-time, housing For11Ill. Our four years at Union and social life. I would also like College can be the most i:Jn. to put our freshman class fund portant and memorable years · to good use and with new ad- of o11rlives. In these four years • ditions such as the College we will be faced with many Center and the Alumni Gym we · contro-versies and milny can facilitate this need. I am decisions will have to be made, willing to listen to any decisions that affect each (){ us. suggestionsorcriticismsto help .We~ ~s a class may aJ.S() .en· ; our class become more unified. counter problems that Ileed · Remember on Friday, sol11tions or we may want to ' February 5, vote for Sue Porell. propose an idea to the rest\ ~ftlie I guarantee to make your fresh- student body. In any case, ,good man year more exciting and representation is needed. memorable. ·. EvEry member of the fresh· . . Vote for me and I can make man class has something to the class of '91 work for 'U'. contribute to the Union Co]ege Hello, My name is :RosalYn Morse and I'm rwming for freshman class representative. The reason I'm running for this position is beca11se th~ fresh- man class is usually viewed as G. non voice on campus and 1 want to help make otlr class of 19!)1 \the voice on <!ampus!\ My main objective is to keep the freshman class informed on what's going on. Just remember: NEEDED: Freshman Candidate ROSALYN MOa8E Julie Davis If elected, I will represent, to the best of my ability, the in· terests of the freshmen class. I will not be afraid to take a stand for what we d.eSeJ:Ve. Keeping this in mind, V()te for Julie Davis on February 5. Dan Waible Many students don't realize the effectiveness ·Of a strong Student Forum representatiye. I have witnessed' the potency of our Student Forum on current issues and long-term policy plaMing and know that my contributions to the 'Forum would intensify their com· mitment to the issues and make their · accompli.shments noticeable and significant. I don't plan on r~volutionizing the Forum yet as your rep,.-esen- tative I would support our class's position with the en- thusiasm and. desire needed to maintain and better the academic and S()Cial conditions at Union. Dan Waible wants to be your freshman represen\ tative. · regulations e.stablished this year will affect us for the rest of . our ,time here. I have many ideas, as I'm sure you do, about how to improve Union. Together we can: achieve them. Michelle Lerner ~ My name is Michele Lerner and I am running for the positio·n of Freshman llepresentative of the Student Government Association (SGA), in order to continue my work to improve Union College. The SGA is a vital part of Union College.Jt is the. student '.s voice, · on campus. Since the beginning of the school year I have become involved with the SGA. Weekly I attend the Student Forllnl meetings and have become an active member of discussions that lead to decisions made about our colle_ge. I have also joined the Rt:gistrar's Task Force, a committee which will work to alleviate some of the chaos that occurs during registration. I , have been worl~ing with Janet . Gray, the head of Dining Ser- vices,. in order to make needed changes. I will also be working on tlle Menu Committee with Richard Baia, the assistant director of Dining Services. · I am highly qualified for the job. In high school I was a .representative to the Student Senate, treasurer of Students · Against Dr~ving Drunk an,d I was tlie Cha1rmanof the Hwnan Relations Committee. I also was chosen by the ad- mmistration to represent the students in writing a \Rules and Regulations\ handbook that had to be submitted to the Board of Regents of New York. I hope after reading this you will see that not only am I the right candidate for the job but I also care. Being a part of the SGAis important to me because it will help me continue to work for a better Union. I want to work :for you to dothe best job . possible. Please vote for me, Michele Lemar. Thank you. l ': .( <\ l~t: 'ft '· l ,I· I ~~ ~' fr~ 1 ~ \\' f;. \ It ,. .. ·' ., j. ' I l: I. ~ l I 4 ·~

' \; :~ r ,, '' \ l 'l '' ; 1 I THE COLLEGE BOO:KSTORE COLlEGE CENTER HOURS: MON.-FRI. 8:45AM- 4.:30 PM SAT. 1l AM- 3~00 PM Price Blow Out 'IK ... .Ai£ • L :;.~witrJ The Best In Record·ed Rock,. J·azz & Cl:assical M·usic Cassettes · · $3.;99 to $4.99 Knowledge and ambition. Now you're ready to join a company that shares those values. And that company is Singer. Singer can take you from your campus to the forefront of discovery. In navigation and guidance systems. Communications. Signal processing. Fiber optics. And in disciplines that exist now only at the farthest reaches of the imagination. Only $3.99 'Jlafe-ntine 's Cards, c}ifts, t£tc. As a U.S. citizenwlthan EE, ME, CS or Ptlysics . degree, you can develop new realities dlJri ng an exciting. period of growth at one of our Advancecl Engineering Centers in New Jersey. To l.earn more about the re\Nards yo.u'll ,cfis- cover here .• contact your Placement Office, or write: Ms. Karen DeChino, The Si11ger Company, Mail CodE 07A02, 1225 McBride Avenue, Little Falls, NJ 0.7424. We are an equal opportunity employer, m/1, who creates opportunities. SINGER See us on campus February 24 Dynamicron 1/IDEO AECOROm .\NO PL.:).YBACK ENfiEG!STR!:MENl'EtT,lECTURE VIDEO IVHSI WORK IN JAPAN Individuals with a degree and/or experience in: electronics & electrical enginee~ing, TESOL, linguistics, pharmacy, · securities/finance, business mangernent, real estate, engineering, advertising, telecommunications, education, elementary education and the travel industry interested in teaching English for one year· in Japan to employees of major corporations/ government ministries should write to: International Education Services Shin Taiso Bldg .• 10-7, Dogenzaka 2-chome Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150, Japan Information on the position will be sentafter receiving a detailed resume and photo- graph. Interviews will be held in spring. Albany Saratoga . Sc:heJi8c:tady' \. \\~~'14t'

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, February 4 1 1988 FEATURES Talk of the Town Concordiensis recently asked~· ''What do yo.u think of the College Center'' 1 tnlnK it's great because it provides a place for both faculty and students to interact in a social setting.\ - Rob Goldman '89 :PJlotos and Interviews by Stan Kitzinger I love it. It's like a s.econd home, but the price of ooffee is too high. - Tim Matthews '89 I really like how bright and sunny it is. It's great to see people using. it so frequently. I wish there were a lounge area with comfortable chairs on the first floor. ~ Prof. l. Stanhope I think it's more of a f,aculty center than a college center. Gail Blumenfeld 'BB I think we need a .college center, but I think it should be callEd Carnegie arld by the wal(, where are the steps? - Chrls Telesca \88 Class of '91 Gets Their Gla,ss Views On Super Sunday By LISA CHERANDE There are certain traditions at Union College that will never be broken ... singing the alma Mater to the President during Freshman Orientation, Fit- zhugh Ludlow Day, Homecoming football games, pledge pins. and painting the idol. One tradition that deserves rank amongst these most elite and long-standing traditions is the annual President's dinner for the current freshman ciass. This year the class of 1991 was the first to enjoy the President's dinner party at the new College Center. Among those present were President and Mrs. Morris, representatives of the Alumni Council, members of the Class of 1941, the Student Forum, and for entertainment - the Dutch Pipers and the Garnet Min- strelles. President Morris began the evening with a few words of welcome. Then Dean Mammola spoke with an ex- planation for the evening's event. The dinner was chosen to be held in the winter term because it is not until then that freshman are fully ingrained to college life. The Class of 1941 was invited to the dinner as a symbolic gesture of the bridge between the past and present at Union College, and to solidify a relationship between the two half a century apart classes. In four years, it will be the Class of '41 who will be waiting to offer congratulationsto the Class of '91 upon their graduation. President is quite differe11t than that of dinner at 'West College Dining Hall. Tablecl()ths, menus, primerib com- plimentary glasses wL tb the President's Dinner illsignia, and a toast to the Class ()f '91 all added a touch of sophlsticati{)n to the gala occasion. During dessert, Presi(Jellt of Student Forum, Michaellliller explalned the upcoming Student Forwn elections and the Head of the Alurrmi Council S]JOk.e of openings for students on its committee. Entertaimnent by the Pipers and Minstre~les and a rendition of the Alma Mater ended the evening on a musical note. Overall, the dinner was a great success and enj~yEd py all those who attended. For some, maintaining tra<liti.ons is a sign of not being opell to new and innovative ideas, J)ut here at Union traditions are anim- portant means of contirJUing a part of our history, am( should thP.rPforP nnt hP frrrunth>TI By EMILY SOOHOO This is the week that millions of women look forward to; the week after Super Bowl Sunday; Every weekend since Sep· tember, these women become repulsed by fhe vision of their fathers, brothers, boyfriends, husbands, etc. sitting in front of the wide screen television with beer cans and various football snacks. During the course of the - program, the cans become crushed and the fool ends up all· over the floor because viewers insist on screaming at the teLevision with their mouths full. The sight of crumbs falling onto the carpet and fists waving into the light of the TV is enough to send anyone and their wallet out of the house and to Loeb- mans. A close friend who is also a dedicated football fan tells me that that is the significance of Super Bowl Sunday to his mother and sister. My fondness for him does not diminsh despite the fact that he is one among the footbali audience While traditions were im- portant to some, for others the highlight of the evening was the dinner and the entertainment. The ambience of dinner with the Freshmen elljoying the \traditional\ evening. Beta Chapter of Phi Sigma Kappa Celebrates 100 Years· of Brotherhood ByMARKMAUGHTON In the spirit of the fraternity system Beta Chapter of Phi Sigma Kappa is celebrating it's 1ooth anniversary. The chapter was founded by six young men on February 2 1888; one .hun- dred years ago at Albany Medical College. The Chapter then moved to the Union College campus in 1922. Since 1922 Beta Chapter has established itself in several locations currently residing in the south side Ot Fo:s:, Tbe celebraUon will begin February sixth at the Ramada Inn in Schenectad!7. 'Die Chapter extends invitation to an· active brothers, alwnni, President Morris, Dean Mammola, Dean Alfretl., and all. of the officers of the ~ational Fraternity of Phi Sig. Tltis Gala banquet will feature live en- tertairunent, the prese11.tationof a centennial plaque~ and speeches from botll the President Bagwell and President Morris. GoocJ eheer, good will, and good friends are sure to elevate the spirit of the Fraternity to it's llighest- morale. DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1517 van Vranken Ave 374 .. 5193 DRY CLEANING AN~ TAILOR lNG who becomes engrossed in the scene of men running around a large, green field, chasing and juniping on top of each other. It doesn't paint a very pretty picture;. does it? Nevertheless, some of the most respectable, intelligent members of the Union College community become victims of this football addiction. Football is claimed to be part of the American tradition. It is composed of weel~ly Sunday games until some time in December. Then there are the playoffs to decide .who will partake in the infamous Super Bowl. The Super Bowl comes two weeks after the playoffs. One might think that this means there will finally be a break from Sunday for one weekend. Actually, this means two weeks of football news leading- up to the Super B.owl. For two agonizing weeks, the media, press, and radio are devoted to advertising the American tradition. ABC got to broadcast this year's Super Bowl. The network was busy choosing the lucky sportscasters . and collecting .fees for advertising time during the game. USA Today reported that 51 half:. minute corrunercial spots were av~Uabh~. Ad rates for pregame were $200,000 to $450,000 per half minute and during the game rates were $600,000 to $675,000 per half minute. Expected revenue was $50 million. Wow! Radio stations were endlessly discussing the game. Even music stations had their disc jockeys talking about the Super Bowl. That's where I heard that scalped Super. Bowl tickets were selling f~r $750 for the inexpensive seats! The better seats were well over $1 1 000. Magazines were pUblishing special editions of hw1<lreds of pages about the Super Bowl. Super Bowl publicity doesn't stop there. A walk through the mall will: reveal football shirts, posters, mugs, pennants, and a myriad of other football paraphernalia. Price Chopper was selling cakes iced with Denver and Washington helniets. There was also an assortment of prepackaged Super Bowl goodies. SUper Bowl parties certainly have come a long way. The usual Super Bowl feast was simply beer and piz~a. Nowadays, we start off with some Super Bowl hors d'oeuvres dllring pregame programming. A wise choice would be jumbo shrimp With a tangy, red cocktail sauce. This was especially fitting for Super Bowl XXII, for the red sauce symboliZed the host's accurate forecasting of the Washington Redskins' victory. Pate-filled, football-shaped puff. pastr~~s are also delightM pregame finger foods. Thes€ ~re slowly finisbed off duing the first quarter along with some Super Bowl cocktails. Excitement and hunger are built up during -the second quarter. At half time, there's finally a moment to serve tbe pizza. But this is no longer the usual pizza. The sophisticated football viewer orders a deep. dish pCJ.n pi~:za topped with everything. This is accompanie{} by an expensive, imported beer. Traditionalists may choose to adhere to a quality American beel\ without damaging the savor ofthe pizza. The seasoned football party host displays his pretentious wisd<>rn by simUltaneously devouring his pizza and beer with<Jut staining his jersey. Other feats he must perform within the brief half- time intermission include in- telligently predicting events for the second half of the game, making tasteful :~omments aoout the dancing girls, and politely ignoring his -wife. The second half of the game does not go by in the absence ·of readily accessible snacks. Various munchiEs ·are strategically situated in con- venient locations to ensure that the guests need n~t rise from the couch for fear of missing an imp()rtant pasS:.. Fostgame festivities include cake, ice cream, and a bro!id selection of Stlper Bowl pastries. It is im- perative that at least ()ne of the desserts incorporates the Super Bowl theme. Lastly, the host mtJSt bear in n:Un:d ,emergen- cies. For example, the event of a sudden death (a tie .score at the end of the four quarters) unaccompanied by sufficient comestibles cculd be detrimental to the host's reputation. This oould also pose some doubt concel\'ling next year's Super Bowl affair. The majority of Super Bowl hosts will not econl)ltlize on this occasion. On· the C()ntrary, they will tend tQ be quite liberal and gellerous in their e:xpenditures. This is on~ of the times during the year when .one mllSt keep in mind that-the tax: rtnurn check Will be arriving. in jllSt a few months or the Wife ean. survive With one less birthday gift. . The economics of the Super &wl introduces a oomplicated analysis which eztends beyond tbe scope of this article •. Continued on page 7 ,, i '· l f· I

I l i ( 'l ., \ i .. I f· I CONCORDlENSJS, February 4, J988 'Page 7 Blcmck History Month Brief . \Mr. NAACP\ Roy Wilkins August 30, 1901 - September 8, 1981 By CRAIG SUMMERS Give Us A Break! By SUSAN SHAFFER Associate Features Editl)r Hours. Not minutes nor seconds but entire hours. To do nothing but enjoy for days. Not one or two but more just to play. Seem like a dream? It's just weeks away! SPRING BHEAK Thousands of students from across the nation flock to the beaches of Florida, New Mexico · and the Carribean over spring · break. I can think of nothing better than lying on the beach with friends, sipping margueritas. No worries, the one · time that you have, to totally relax without the con- strictions of your own society. There is something wonderfully hypnotic about the cahft of the waves and water. Coming from Pennsylvania, traveling to the beach is always a major ami special production for Qle. For . those from near the beach, it is · easy to become dependant on the ocean. · Spring Break is a thriving industry for all resorts and towel afterwards. Spring Break is not always that much fun; things can and will go wrong. Plane delays and misfiled reservations are often just the beginning of a jinxed vacation. Lost hotel reser- vations and missing luggage cannot top arriving at your luxury hotel to find the only piece of furniture is the bed, roach m()tels house your roomates in every corner and some type of green life form is growing in your bathroom. Another common complaint comes from those who an- Beacnsrde or ... CIRCI E K One can hardly think of the National Associatioll for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) without thinking of Hoy Wilkins. His association with .the organization hegap when ·he was a student at the Uni-irersity of Minnesgtain 1923~ and spanned more than SO years until his retirement as executive secreta·ry in 19.77. Being totally con:unitted to the rightness of its aims and the ur.gent 'need for its existence, Wilkins held ji,lSt about every position in the organization, from investigative reporter to editor of the Crisis Magazine. As a Eecturer, ftmd raiser and membership drive chairman, he had no peer. Under his leadership, the orgallization saw its most .fruitful years. TPe period of Mr. Wilkins' .direction was fraught with constant chang.e. He had the foresight, expertise, and tenacity to take advantage of f;lvezy possible opportunity to gain more rights for Black people and: to improve their economic lot. More civil rights. legislation W3S passed, more Black awareness was evidenced, more mass in- volvement and direct con- frontations were witnessed during his tenure than at any other time in history. . anything can be arranged for the travel-oriented. Any trip is easily planned for an in- dividual's personal taste. For those of you who are like me - you can go to a beautiful beach with room enough to spread out your blanket and calffi enough to sip your dacquid without getting too much sand 'in your glass. For the more ad- venturous, one can hit the bars on a Florida boardwalk, have sand kicked in their face; be bombarded by runaway frisbees and volleyballs, get stepped on by all sorts and never enter the water for fear of never being able to find your Poolside?! FLOWER SALE' FEB. 8-ll The N.A.A.C.P. under his guidance, became the un- disputed internationally ac- claimed leader of all rights organizations. U tllat~ JMouutain ~kt ~tta: · BAG THE BOOKS AND HIT THE SLOPES!!! WILLARD OFFERS: 2 for 1 Ticket Prices Mon. - Sat. 6-10 pm Buy One Get One Free For Further Info. Call 6.92-7337 ti~ipate getting a gre;:lt tan and are faced with 5 days of rain. If these things do not top your worst nightmares there are always th()se who fall asleep on the beach and awake with sun poisoning. Still however, do not fret! Most likely you will return with a golden brown tan, many wonderful packages and even better stories! If thL,gs don't turn out as' planned and there is nothing left to do but smile, smile, smile think back to the brutal Schenectady winter and you'll realize that your vacation is going to be enjoyable even if it leads you to insanity. It is a wonderful week when no one's a geek, where we alllaugh & play 'cause we're glad we're away FOR SPRING BREAK! ! ! ! ! Seniors - Get Ready for the Real World. Support the Annual Fund Friday, 12:40, CC406 . . . A Spectator's Experience Conttnue.~ from page 6 However, there is no argument that a great deal of money is invoEved in this anqual event. For spectators, it is one of the biggest betting days of the year. For participants, .the fruits of victory amount to $36,000 awarded to each player. The \losers\ receive $18,000. The title of losers is questionable when it concerns $18,000 for about four hours of work. Perhaps President .Reagan and his cabinet could find a way to win Su.per Bowl XXIII and if Chairman Alan Greenspan could manage network cover~ge of the game, then all those Washington statisticians and f<1recasters could take the revenue gained by Reagan and Greenspan and place it into a sure bet. The U ;S. trade and budget deficit W()uld definitely be shocked into a significant tw'Tlaround. A good deal of the American pOpUlation rates the Super Bowl as .America's biggest sporting event of the year. As a twenty- one year citizen of the United States, if I didn't join the army, I thought it was- at ·least my patriotic duty to watch a SuJ)er Bowl game. Upon the en- couragement of some giJ()d friends, I decided to accept the kind invitation to a Super B()wl party. The affair was not hosted by the usual football fan, but by Mr. and Mrs. P, the parents of a Union College quarterback~ I was advised to wear an oraage shirt to demonstrate favoritism for the Denver Broncos. For- tunately, my fashion sense was against this suggestion. The outcome of the game was a fiasco for the orange team, not to mention that the host was an avid Washington Redskins fan. I viewed this as a good op- portunity to find out whether those football stereotypes were truth or myth. I decided to attend the Super Bowl get. together with a broad, objective mind. Hence I comprorrlised between red and orange and wore an impartial pink sweater. I walked into Mr. and Mrs. P's house carrying a. six pack ·of beer. Sure enough, the large, color television could quickly be spotted upon entrance into the room. Resting on top of the TV \ was a prominent Washington Redskins cap. _ AS we settled down, we engaged in some pregame munchies and chatted about the upcoming events of the game. The rest of the evening was devoted to viewing the Super Bowl and eating the appropriate foods. During those million dollar commercials, Mr. P recoWtted some of his past f()otball experiences. The event lived up to my expectations of beer, pizza and jumbo shrimp. At halftime, the Super Bowl _ audience was entertained by an awesome piano perfonnance. Fats Domino appeared singing the \Super Bowl TWist.\ 'rben the Rockettes came kicking onto the field. By this time I was Wlimpressed by the show of glitter and was prepared to witness a more brutal exhibition by Doug Williams and his teammates. By the third quarter, the RedSkins were many points ahead of the Broncos. One of my friends sat back, resting his belly, mour- ning the inevitable loss of the Broncos. Another one of my Airborne School and Army ROTC, A Cadet's View Ry JEFFREY H. KLITZ Airh9rne. A group of in· div]duals trained in the techniques of parachuting. Over ·the Christmas break I was ; given an opportunity to join the · rank5 of this elite group of in- dividuals. I am an Army ROTC student atteruling Union College while taking ROTC classes through Siena College. I was awarded a three-year scholarship this past summer. When I arrived on campus in the fall I thought tbat I W()uld be traveling to Siena to take my ROTC classes. But tha:nks to the officers at Siena, the classes are being held locally at the Schenectady Armory. This has several benefits. First, the time spent in traJJsit is considerably lessened. Sec()ndly, the classes are smaller ·and therefore there is a closer interaction with the in· str11ctors. Finally, the Annory offers a wide array of resources that the class is able to tap. Drle of the several advantagss of tile ROTC program was the opportunity to become a military parachutist. The Army Airoorne school is located at Fol't Benning, Georgia, which is abo11t an hour from Atlanta. The school lasted three weeks, and culminated in a final week, called jwnp week. In this week 5tl0men and women jumped out of C-130 and 0.141 military aircraft and floated down to earth. The experience of jumping out of an aircraft flying at 140 knots and 1250 feet above the earth was thrilling, to say . the least. :Now I am back at Union, we~ing my Airborne wings and getting used to civilian life again. Later this year I will again be out in the field with the pe41ple at Siena. The ROTC staff at Siena have planned several friends was busy tabulating his winnings from a football pool, which ultimately amounted to zero. By the time we left Mr. and Mrs. P's house, I never did see crllShed beer cans or remnants of football foods lying on the carpet like a shroud. On the C()Dtrary, I enjoyed myself ~spite the fact that I had just · outings at which they will be 1eaching basic military techniques, such as small unit tactics and how to rWl patrols. Anny ROTC does not em- phasize book learning as much as the sister services do, but the actual field experience which is much more exciting. If you have any questions about the ROTC program, Airborne school, or how you can become a part of a worthwhile experience,. fell free to call me. Jeff Klitz 374-1994 If you have thought of joining the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC), but were turned off by the travel involved to and from RPI or Siena College, we have .a solution. Anny ROTC is offered just ten minutes away from Union College in Schenectady, New York. Union College Army ROTC cadets are instructed at the New York State Armory on Washington Avenue (across from. Schenectady ConunWlity College) . Transportation is also avaUableto students Who need a reide to and from class. Union College has 11 students enrolled in Anny ROTC and the program is continually growing. In addition to scholarship .opportunities, Army ROTC provides ~udents with unique leadership training, along with practical experience. It also helps develop many of the ·qualities basic to success in the Anny, or in a civilian career. ROTC also provides a valuable opportunity to build for the future by enabling young men and women to earn a college degree and an officer's com- 'J<1ission at the same time. For further details about the program, contact Captain Russ .Rosati at (518) 783-2571. sat through four hours of football. The game was also not as boring as expected. nor that difficult to follow. Nevertheless, I managed · to refrain. from suggesting that instead of pizza and beer next year, perhaps qlliche and Perrier would be served at my Super Bowl XXIII feast. ·

Page 8 CONCORDJENSlS, Pebruar1 4, 1988 ' ' ' . . . . . ' ' --.--------:.. -~--- _.___ --- ~--·< - -- ~ -- -- __ .. _- --.-·-- _, FEATURES And Y·ou Thought Th.ere Was Only One ~ ....... ~, .; - ... ..,-. Out To Eat with Hersh and Robe By AND~EW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBlNS \Makes a nice sandwich, a nice sandwich.\ As we found out this week, it is possible to find a \nice sandwich\ in Schenectady. In fact, we found several. Our first stop was Gershon's Delicatessen, located on Union Street. We began our review with some petty criticisms; we were net crazy about ()U pickles, the water tasted like chalk, my apple danish was mediocre, and my vegetable soup was not hot enough. On the petty but positive side, the seiTice was quick, and Robe's apple strudel was excellent. Such minor details are not important; it is the sandwich that makes Gershon's what it is. Robe and I both had triple- decker sandwiches· which measured close to flve inches thick. Robe chose the \B\, made of ham turkey, swiss cheese, lettuce, tomato, and Russian dressing on rye bread. rhad the \E made with roast beef instead of bam, but otherwise the same. Included with the sandwiches was a choice of homemade salads. I had p()tato salad and Robe tried the creamy cole slaw; both were quite good. If the sand~ wiches were net so good, there might be more to say. They were made with quality ingredients, and were simply as delicious as they were huge. It is the sandwich that matters at . Gershon's, and you will be hard pressed to find a better. Another quality sandwich can be found at Home Style Pizza, a family rtm take-out d~li located on the corner of Union Street and Van Antwerp Road. Hom~style otters a variety of Italian dishes, including pasta dinners, hot and cold sand- wiches, calzones, and of course, pizza. Since we were looking for sandwiches this week, we skipped over the pizza and dinners, and shared a meatball parmigiana sandwich (wedge, sub, hoagie, grinder, hero, etc . .), and a ham, turkey, swiss cheese, lettuce~ tomato, and Russian dressing sandwich (wedge, sub, boagie, grinder, hero, etc.) While waiting for our sand- wiches, we munched on homemade bread sticks, which were very go()d and chewy enough to litevany hurt your jaw. Home Style makes all its own breads and it shows. Although Robe was not con- vinced, I felt that it was the rolls that made the sandwiches good. The meatball parmigiana was smothered with melted cheese, and, on the whole, very good. The actual meatballs were lacking quantity, and a little too salty, buHhe bread and cheese made up for this. The cold sandwich was also a case of the whole being greater than the sum of its part. Although nlQne of the ingredients, except the roll, were outstanding when tasted separately, our overall im- pression was ex:cellent. It was large (11 inches long), well made (Robe called it \ora derly\) and g'tlnerously filled. We also tried a cannoli at Home Style, wldch was fair at best. This did not lower our opinions of Home Style Pizza as a great sandwich place. Based on our t-1() point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable pl'ice, I rated Home Style an 8¥..! a11d Gershon's a 9. Robe gave Gershon's a 9¥2 and Home Style an 8. Gershon's Delicatessen 1600 Union St., Schenectady, NY 393...()617 Price, with tax, before tip: $12.35 Home Style Pizza Corner Union St. and Van Antwerp Rd. Schenectady, NY 37lH27G or 37Q-3735 Price, with tax: $9.60 By MARJORIE HOFFER Features Editor \We have arrived!\ cheered one of my companions upon our arival at the brand new \PRICE CHOPPER SUPER CENTER\ located on Central Avenue in Albany. With its neon sign, you can hardly miss it. This Price ChQpper was so space-aged and sapersonic that my poor friend from the city (who was floored by the original Chopper) almost fainted when we entered the newest and best addition to the Price Chopper family: Nwnber 104! The floor was shiny clean· as we easily rolled our carts oil the white tile. We wondered where the food was after entering the complex and paBsing a travel agency, a film developer (that sold electronics), and a branch of Key Bank. A quarter of a mile into the_ Super Chopper we·~ thought perhaps th()se red dots ahead might he apples. And not to 1M: disappointed, the produce sectron was beautifully arranged so that ~u the food looked like it was just picked off the tree, or out of the ground. Now, at first we were so awed by the experience that we did not know where to begin. But, all the information we needed was supplied by millions of neon signs above indicating, \Fruits \Vegetables or in the frozen food section, \Entrees\ and ''Shrimp.\ In fact, this store was just so U+- E huge, that they .h:ad little red information phones available just in case you became com- pletely disoriented and could not find a specific. item. RoWlding each corner led to tmexpected surprises, The vast array of food sp:read out, the . . . . .. • UNioN: TRIVIA . . L Gi~\ t~~ full .ei~mes:.~f. · tfiq~J,;.Un.toii prt$ldeni$ · itl~r.: . . wlich tile. twin .donils.are nilmecL . . . ·. . .· .. ·.· ·. ··.·· . 1 · Wells house ifailci\bowri ·ta$: ·· · _..::. ~ · · · · ~~ · Nci.me:·tlle six finterl'natioiial tratemities'·'t&tlt''weilf'' >>•. founded. h:tte at Uriioft.: · · . • .. • .... , ·, :,;.>.· ••••. 4 Of th L . . • . h\ fi ed. ... \Un. T c; -.~,: • · .. · ~: 11~.'>'-e ;$IX,. w. ·~ ~9mP..Q.J ::la«t '· Bon ••. ne~~:./1 s~ This·wee~tnd5oa~c~rnpu•m~~fe:will11e :'·_·· '•·· : .. ·..:~·: ··· · '· · Which':\!)emocrmtlc'>. ·reSidential candictate·::w .. s··~~:······ar~k · J&~· Wh~· is. ib~·=.-.•tb~f ;.fQnio•'•:::Aimg IAiat'*? · ·.: ..... :: ,::.::.-: .... :· . ATTENTION SKIIERS: The cross country ski tlip planned for February 7 will be to BERESFORD, DUANSEBURG, NY. If interested, sign up by Friday in the Student Activities Office. Van will leav~ from.the . East entrance of the College Center at 1 :00 pm and arrive back at Union by 5:00 pm. Tranportatioll is free, if needed, purchase traU tickets upon arrival. . Are You Aware? By MARY BETH MANNING Anonymous Guest Columnist Comments on SUper Bowl XXII Also see Views on Super Bowl Sunday, Pg. 6 How do songs, books, television and movies affect our sexuality? To find out the an- swer to this question, and to increase your awareness of the · power of the media, attend AWARE's next program on Wednsday, February lOth. This· informative and entertaining discussion, which is also being sponsored by Sigma Chi and Panhellenic Council, is entitled \The Media and Sexuality\. . Jay Friedman, an educator for Planned Partentho<Jd in Ithaca, New York, and a disc jockey who hosts a weekly radio show \Sex Without Getting Screwed\ is a fascinating speaker. Friedman is also the program -coordinator of ''How To Be a Better Lover\ a male sexuality peer education program at Cornell University. Friedman's program uses music, videos, literature, television, advertising, and movies to ex:amine the impact the media has ~n females, males, and sexuality. He will address such topi<!s as asser- tiveness, intimacy, acquain- tance rape, and sexual ex- pectations. He also intends to lead a Donahue-like audience discussion. By SHAWN MORTON (San Diego) When I saw John Elway drop back to throw a 57- yard t()uchdown pass to Ricky Nattie! on Denver's first play from scrimmage, I said to myself, ''Oh my Goodness! This game is going to be a blow out!'' But it soon appeared that the joke was on the Bron<!oS for the Redskins came storming back with 35 points in the second half, which happened to be exactly the nt~mber of shrimp I ate. Du.rin\'{ hh)Jlti.rn~,;!, Pl:li1: Dominr- sang while drEssed in a stun- ning blouse ancl interesting sboes. And the Rockettes (did you know that they came all the way from Radio() City Music Hall in the Big Apple'? Really!) did a very cute dance. I don't :really reme:mbel' the second half, because we had cake, and somebody kept talking about being chased off the sidelines and having their teeth knocked out - scary! ! Anyhow, I guess that the team in red was win- ning, because they all kept w:rvm~ to the1r rnothere - it was heartrending. My mother doesn't even. watch football, so I guess I would have to wave to my brother if I was on T.V. -although I guess, if I was in the Super Bowl, she would have friends over .for football snacks (watercress sandwirhe2 and croissants) and milk. Anyway, after the game, I rear ·felt that · I had swallowlld a football; thank God we didn't 1 1ve to .go · swimming in that foe i;ball pool · that everybooy ke&:'t talking about. because I wouldn't be able to stay afl()at - whoosh! FUght to th<? bot.t.•:JI1'1! See you there next Wed- nesday at 8 PM in Old Chapel. AWARE will hold it's weekly meeting at-7 PM that pight in room 203 of the Coilege Center. Join us before heading over the progran1. · special fish dealer and tile massive gourmet food secti~tll' made us feel at last we were' part of the .21st century. Ev~11 the Chopper restaurant wheie normally we ate used to seeing green uniformed Chopper· employees sitting on gree11 benches smoking cigarettes was a pleasant $urprise. It WllS closed. But still, the super modern chrome look had in· fluenced the stools, and tlte· counter top-making it appear uncondemnable. by the board of health. The bulk food was encased in· clear plastic tubs. Tubs that. y()u couldn't bear to put your hartd into to snit(!h a couple -.of maltballs or raisinets. And tlte medicine,. toothpast, shamp()o· aisle was no aisle-all it needed was a few four way stop signs, and it would have n1ade up a city block. This Price Chopper eve.11 catered to the dieter. FlJr example, I was grocery shopping with someone wlto actually bought boxe.s of cookies, and various other carbohydrates-well, I did not need to drool through the -CO()kie section. No sir, not in this Chopper. I went to the large· hook section and picked up oll.e of tbe latest best sellers and read it in hardcover. Then r walked through \home fur- nishings\ and got apartment ideas for next year. Because the aisles were so big and wide, my friends and I dld not experience . that ,annoying situation as in other super· markets: the trl:lffic jam of tlte cans. I~ fact it was a very social affair as the three of liS walked abreast through tlte · store pushing our carts, and chatting all the way. The adventure, sadly, must come to an end. We debated: which one of 24 cheekollt counter-s (one for each hour tl1e store was open) to go through. But not all were open, so we dLd not have much of a choiee· anyway. Not to be outdone by anything else, right at the end of the checkout was a sparklirtg clean restroom! That is definitely something many supermarkets lack. For as m.y astute friend pointed out, \Y0;u can spend as much time in Price Chopper as you do in· Blooming dales.\ (Blooming· dales has quite a few facilities. ) We left with parcels of edibles from the Super Price Chopper, and waved goodbye to the l~>go. On the w~y home, we pondere:d whether · or not this excutsi0<11 would always be worth the drive up State Street. We concluded that although an evening at Chopper was a rare treat intQ a different time zone, it just wasn't worth the trip if yow· goals is to raid the bulk bins. 'E?(press ',Your Opinions on Pornography Student :Forum Meeting, 8:00, S mitfi House ... Il - 1 p.l't ki:l 8()1 on UOI by by ha sc: sy El g~ M th Ki Vl to PI PQ be] fit m1 Si( ru re frc pr 10 th

'l ;l l I I I, CONCORDlENSIS, February 4, i988 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Th • ·p· .1 • • . . Gl .. 0 lfiCS ByLINA NGAM\lRAKULPANIT Thailand is a co\Ultry of op- proximately · 514,000 sq. kilometers located in the southeast of Asia. It is bordered on the west by Burnl.a, on the northeast by Laos, on the east by Cambodia, and on the south by Malasia. Today, Thailand has a po,pulation of 52 million scattered ()Ver 72,provinces. Thailand has a gov~rnment system similar to that of England, a democratic government with a Prime Minister (llSually appointed by th.e King). Tile present day King, King Bhtllllibol (Rama vnii) has led the country toward economic growth and prosperity for over 40 years:· It is not very easy· to be a I>Qlitician ·m- Thailand. Besides being occupationally and financially secure, maturity must also· be taken into con- sideration. The first step is to run for a position as· a · representative of the people from one's own province. Each province can have 2, 3, or up to 10 representatives depending on the size of the population within that province. There .are, however, aminim.umnwnberof votes each cB)ldidate must get whether he wins the election or not. The House of Represen- tatives of the People represents a variety of political parties. The new formation of a government is usually formed by the triumphant party and the party leader is generally given the title Prime Minister. The formation of a govern- ment composed of one· single party requires that the elected PartY most gain at least 50 percent of all V(ltes. Because of the political unstabilities and the number11 of <lifferent political parties present, no one party is able to win over 50 perceiJt of the votes. Theref!)re, the formation of the govern- ment consi.st of not one, but .two parties, o1· commonly known as the ''M~ed GDvernment''. The members of the parties will consult after the election to determine the cabinet position; i.e. Minister of Education, Minister.of Foreign Affairs, etc. Tile Prime Minister, in the case of the Mixed Government will be appointed by the King; thils the King play a crucial role in directing the ·government. TERMS ABROAD ANNOUNCEMENTS A general information. meeting on the term abroad programs will be held on Monday, February 8 at 4:30 in the following locatioos: CHJNA JAPAN ISRAEL ENGLAND (Bath) ITALY FRANCE GREECE MEXICO SOCIAIJZED MEDICINE. GERMANY Social Sciences 105 Social Sciences 112 Social Sciences 110 Humanities 114 Humanities 019 Humanities 116 Humanities 117 Humanities 119 Humanities 112 Humanities 113 Thesday. February 9, .at4:30 YORK Humanities 112 These meetings will ·be attended by faculty-in-resid,ence as well as students who have .preViously been op the pr<>gram and can answer your questions in depth. lnfortnation from these participants has proven to be very helpful to 21tudents plannirig their tenns abroad, so if the tenn abroad experience is in your pl~s and you have the time, join us. · APPLICATION DEADLINE DATE IS MONDAY. FEBRUARY 15, 1988 FOR T.HE FOLLOWING TERMS ABROAD: SUMMER 1988 - SOCIALIZED MEDICINE (ENGLAND, SWEDEN'. HUNGARY) FALL 1988 - CHINA JAPAN FRANCE~ ITALY BA'IH. ENGLAND YORK, ENGLAND I{ you have any questions, please call Terms Abroad at :x 6002. French Club presents JEUX INTERDITS .. Thailand survived many political crises during WWII. After the war, the Thai Con- stitgtion wa:; maintained' but the real power belonged. to the army. From this time on the govel'llnient program contained an anti-Commmnist stand. Because .of the strong influence of the Army, the King often aPPOinted the Prime Minister who is rank General in the am1y. Each Prime Minister serve~ one term (four years) before an election is held. If, however, tbe Prime Minister does not Wish to leave bis office, he has the authority to dissolve the Parliment and select a new government. Despite the complexity of Thai politics, the King is the symbol of centrality, the stronghold and the Faith of all Thai citizens. llis Royal Highness dedicated himself to improVing the living conditions of those living especially in the rural areas. Because Thailand is mainly a rice cultivating comttry, there is a strong dependence on water. King Bhumibol has encouraged the construction of reservoirs, and irrigat~on systems which im- prove Thai agriculture tremendously. Jules :and Jim (1961), Francois Truffaut Truffaut's study of the deep and enduring friendship beiween two students, and their complicated relationship w.ith a liberated young woman who loves them both, established him as the leader of the French New Wove. Although Jules and Jim evokes the romantic nostagia of the period preceding World War L the film Illuminates a modern woman for whom no commitment is forever and only death is final. Tuesday, Feb. 9 7:30 College Center Auditorium · ·(Forbidden Games) . Produced by Rene' Clement A~E YOU INTERESTED IN LIVING IN INTERNATIONAL HOUSE? . Won the Oscar for best foreign film of 1952 English Subtitles And Wide Selection of recent · French magazines ( fashion, politics, arts, adventrue) at your disposal before & after the movie • Monday, February 8 . College Center Raom 406 8:00pm For mQre information call x6825 (Matteo) by .=:eb. 15 Monday: French Table, 12:30 Tuesday: Italian table. 12:00 Wednesday: Spanish table. 12:30 Tttursday: Grerman table. 12:00 L.anguaga tables will moot in the Pub at the College Center, and all members of the oollege community are welcome to attend. \ . I THIS WEEK IN THE. WORLD MIDDLE I;AST - The U.S. is sponspring a new peace initiative in the West Bank and Gaza strip. The plan provides for elections for 1 PaJestian sen government. It is hoped that temporary agreement I will be reached within a few weeks, a conferencewilltake place to establish a permanent agreement in a few months. USSR -Georgi Malenkov .is dead at age 86. Af1er Stalins death, Malenkov became a top political figure. He was Prime Minister for two years, in addition to serving as head of the Communist party. Many of his ideas, as Kruschev's doctrine of peaceful co• existance became important in Russian foreign pOlicy. CosTA RIC~ - lsfael Galeano Cornejo, after eight months of continuoos combat had finally granted an interview. The 27 year old is perhaps the best commander the Nicaraguan Freedom Fighters have ever had. Galeano says that the Sandinistas have \never fulfilled a promise\ and he believes that they will fail to democratize Nicaragua. Galeano has sworn to fight to the death even without US aid. SoiJTH KoRE~ - Korea's 1irst popularly elected President,. Roh Tae Woo, is pr~paring to take office in a month. He seems to have much support with the poeple as shown by a public meeting whiclil he presided over Feb. 1, Mr. Roh is intent on keeping his campaign pelicy of being a \common man\. The information given in this article is taken from the New York Times. Robert Collins, Director of Inter-Study Programmes, will visit Union on Thursday, February 11th. Students interested in Inter-Study programs, particularly those in London, can speak with him in the Humanities Faculty Lounge between 4-5 pm. Capital Djstrict ·International Club Meets every Friday night at 7 p.m. at the Albany Art Gallery 226 Jefferson St Albany Tel: 463-7774 1 block from Delaware and Madison Ave. corner, just off Delaware Ave. We meet in a unique cabaret atmosphere in a gallery setting; weekly international entertainment, travel logs, slida shows, dance, song of your own country. _ Come join us, and speak your language, every Friday night at 7 p.m., a home away from your home. Thinking of a trip to some foreign land? Come be in1>pired by our weekly artists and our warm social club gatherings. Promotioll' of UNITY IN DIVERSITY is our goal, bridging the gap of foreignness through friendship is our hope. SCHEDULE OF EVENTS; Feb. 5 Bess Hailer, past and present culture of the Shinnecock tribe; video, talk and audience participa6on, followed by a spaghetti dinner. 12 Turkish film, or video, Gr. dancing by Fred Pashosky 19 Hank Hazelton, slide show and talk on the Hopi-Navajo tribe of the So. Western United States. *26 Veena Chandra, disciple of a disciple of Ravishankar will play citar, sing, and a group of Indian Classical dancers will offer a dance recital in native costumes; video or movie on India is also planned. Mar. 4 Irish lecture, slide show, live music and dance recital in native costumes ... lreland in the capital district is a planned topic, offered by Dr. Lyden. *11 Balcan night, dance-singing in costumJGs of Blacan lands offered by Silvia Cornell ... audience participation and teaching of the dances is scheduled. *18 Mexiro.RI r.mthropologist gives talk on the ancient cultures of the Maya and Aztec peoples; mo.vie/vidao planned; dance in native costumes. *25 Sun Rhee, offers us Korean night with talk, video/movie, song with native instruments and dress, dance is also planned. For further information contact Michael Marro, 272-3176, director of activities. Seattle ... In an endeavor to provide students advanced _ exposure to Japan's culture and society; International Internship Programs (liP) announces a seminar to be held in Tokyo, Japan for university students and graduates. From June 17 to July 29, 1988, participants will study Japan by experiencing it \Business and Society in Japan\ aims to heighten students' awareness, understanding and appreciation of Japan's business practices, and its culture and society through firsthand education.. · Opportunities of liP's business seminar include: study of Japan's business and management techniq11es, observation of government agencies and various businesses,. homestay with a Japaneses host family, sutvival Japanese language study, cultural touts, and an optional Hcnk Kong trip. Program benefits consist of pre..,departure arrangements, orientation, living arrangements plus most meals, program-related transportation, instruction and materials, medical/accidental insurance., and 'administrative support. Optional credit and financial aid avaihible. Students are encouraged to register by March 1, 1988. For further details on how to apply, contact International Internship Programs, 406 Colman Building~ 1st A venue, Seattle, Washington 98104. Or call (206) 623-5539.

Page 10 CONCORDf.~lfSlS,. February 4, 1988 Cllnnrnrbirnsis ------~· t,~UIJI/M at l!n•on Coll'lff ttrr:------ Pornography, Censorship, Students, and the College The pomography issue is dominating college ,conversation- -and. the next few pages. As a forum ofcampus discussion, and an interested party in any issue that may involve the idea of censorship, we also have our own view. One argument against the showing of the film is that the College's funds and facilities should not be t~sed for a pornographic movie. We believe that those funds are taken from the .students and set aside for the students, through the Forum and its subcommittees like the Film C()mmittee, to use as they see fit. The College does not nonnally concern itself with individual clubs' actions, and sho11Jd not do so now. Look at the student activities budget. D<:Jzens of clubs receive funding although a majority of students do not participate in them, or even approve of them. Democrats on campus might disapprove oftbe Young Republicans' views and actions. But the Republicans still deserve·their funding. The Film Committee still deserves their funding if they choose to show the film. The questiQn follows that who should decide which movies the Film Committee will be allowed to show? One group~s objection sh()lJld not prevent them from showing a movie. The Film Committee makes every decision on the basis of what they believe students want to see. We wculd also like to note that any student concerned with .the movie selection of the committee could have applied to joim the committee last year, and can do so again this spnng. They are considering student opinion. In this controversial case, they must be certain to hear the valid arguments on both sides. And they must consider the question of censorsllip. Too many groups in this country advocate the banning of books, movies, and music on the grounds of immorality. Union College is a commullity of educated students with a high regard for each others' rights. We are capable of deciding what is best for our community and what will not hurt each other. We cannot allow the decision to be made on the basis of what group y~lls loudest. Wh.etller we decide to show the movie or not, the decision mtlst be based on information from all students. If not we are setting a precedent that any group that objects strongly enough can make a decision for the rest of us on any campus issue-- movies or music, plays or publications. Th~ decision must be ours to make. Any interference in the Film Committee's final decision would be a statement that Union students were incapable of making decisions about their own lives. If the Film C()Inmittee, after listening to all students and learning how the campus feels, still decides to show the movie, the Colle1J;e could simply disassociate itself from the decision by saying that it was the students' decision and does not necessarily reflect the College's view. Alternative To Punishing Fraternities This week Delta Phi was placed on social probation and the induction of their pledge class was indefinitely suspended as a result of several incidents. We alllmow that this type of incident is not isolated to this fraternity. They were the ones who got caught, but this is not necessarily an indication that this fraternity is the worst cffendet. This indicates a flaw in the judgement system. Another problem with the enforcement .()f tbe College discipline is that it penalizes a wide variety of infractions with the same general punishment, \social probation,'' which is utilized in infractions ranging frcm date rape to serving minors. The Administration disciplines frateqrities to teach them better social responsibility. Is this the most effective way to promote social responsibility? The Administration has takel'l the approach that negative reinforcement is the most constructive method of enoouraging social Iest>Onsibility. The Administration could use the metbod of positive reinforcement. It could reward fraternities that -practice dry rush and developmental pledge programs with funding for social events and house improvements. The Administration could help fraternities bear the burden of supporting our social :~tmosphere by offering financial support for fraternities that wished to hire professional bouncers or bartenders for parties. They could also fund the non- alcoholic aspects of parties including decorations, food, musical entertainment. .. This would promote the social alternative to alcohol that they've long been pushing fo:r, and reward social responsibility. ----------- ---~~ --~ - - -·· :_ --~------· --------.-- - LETTERS ··- - . . College Resources Should Not Support Pornography· Tothe EO:tor: In respol'!se to the scheduling of a pommgraphic fihn by the film C()lllnJittee to be shown on- February. 24,. 1988, a group of concemed men and women have gotte11 together to work towar<l t1Je cancellation of this fi.liil. 'l\\b~s is not an objection to pornog~aphy .in · general. · ObvioW!ly, everybody has the right tc. see whatever they would l:ilte to see, . including pornographic films. We are not as~g tllat this right be taken away. R.ather, we feel that it is not Unl<()n College's place to provicle .a. pornographic film for the fC>llo•wing reasons: the hyprocris:y of the College in suppodin~ the showing of the film, a:nd the possibility of violenCJe ()t' negative attitudes toward 'Women as a result of the film. Pm·n<Ography portrays women; as sexual objects and reinfo1c:es the attitude tha:t women never really mean \no\~ U!ti()n College has taken great rn~suxes to address the issue of · ma'le-.female relaticntships on this campus. Durir:Jg l>rientation, freshmen Professor Opposes Porn Profit To tile ::FMi.tor: OnE CJf my biggest objections to allo'IIJI'ing Union College Stude11i .A-ctivities dollars to be spen.t l'enting a so-called \pornll\ .film is that it helps line the p()ckets of those reprellensible individuals who pJ;od.11pe and market such films, The .argument that these movie:s are \all in good fun\ overloCJks the lives which are ruined ill their malting. I would hate tl() see the College as an insti111itiCln in any way support this truly sick industry. Indi~i«lllals are, of course, free to foll\()W their O}Vll conscience. Doug Klein, Associate Professar Economics Get aclu~~ Ge:t an opinion. React Concordiensis Nfe:ws Analysis. All Letters to the Editor must be typed do ut>9e-spaced and subr11i1ted by 4 p.m. each TlJe~day before publication. All letters mu&1 be signed by no more tllan four people and all vwriters should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Namas. norrn~lly will not be witl1eld. Concordiensis reser:ves the right to reject . letters that are libelous or do not conform to stan(Jard of good taste. L-~~--------~----------·- Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not 'necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis. ~~--------------~~. must a'tte~d cert'in prograiils, such a$ the discussion led by Dr. Andrea Parrot this fall, which deal with this subject. Pther programs are, also offered throughout the academic year. Clearly, the college is con- cerned about the issue and wishes to promote a healthy atmosphere for the student body. And yet they do not l'ecognize . the showtng of a pornographic film,. sanctioned and supported by the college, a.s a· hindrance tothese,efforts. The college is giving a mixed message by supporting tbe presen:tation of such a film. One· of the prima~y respon- sibilities cf the college is the Sl;lfety of th.e students. Obviollsly, Union must recogrJize the potential .danger of negative beliefs anc;l attitudes betwee11 the men and women on this campus. Many studies have been done in the last twenty years co11cerning connections between both violence and negative ·attitudes toward wome11. and pornog~raphy (in- cllldiag \non-aggressive'' porn()gi:-aphy as well as hard· core), There have been studies whicb both do an.d do not find correlatio,n between por· nography- and violence against women. The most eXhaustive study co11aucted recently was, the one completed by the Attorney General's Commission on Porno!Crapby in 1986. This study found a causal relationship between the vieWing of · \non-violent\ PQr· nograp]l~ and both negative attitudes and violent behavior toward women. While chances may be :small that the showing of this film will induce vi()lence against women, the· negative - attitude!;. iinYoked by movies such asth~e are in themselves extremely' detrimental. In a sr:nan community such as Union,. fhe issues discussed above Sr)()uld be recognized and appropr.lately acted.. upon. Should Union College money and pul»ll:c ·facilities be ·wed for the sho~g of a pornographic film.7 'W~ believe that they should 11ot. RespedfUlly, AnneCar1~88 R~presentative of Student~ Again$! Pornography Campus Women Request Cancellation . To the Editor: An open letter to the Film Comtnittee and the Student Forum: The President's Commission on tbe Status of Women, con· sisting of women facUlty, staff, adm:irtistrators and . students, would like to state its support for the Students against Por- nography.We believe that using U11icm College funds and facilities to screen por- nographl~ films violates ideals the College seeks to pr()mote- those ()f sexual equaliiy and respect fe>r all- members of o11r COIIUilllllity. We, therefore a,sk the F itm Committee and Student Forum to cancel the sho:wilig of pornographic films. Christina Sorim & Marianne Snowden, Co-Chairs for the President's Commission on the States .of Women ! l :J Tc l\E m c< PI 0 b~ m sc m D K v~ tt Cl ol b: ill 01 N c ll f4 0 ll b 0 v ( ~ t: r f 1: c ~ r I t

Page 1() CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1988 ----------f\()wadt-J at lin1tN1 C!N/~~ Nl':'-:'-~---- Pornography, Censorship, Students, and the College The pornography issue is dorninatin.g college conversation- -and the next few pages. As a forum of campus discussion, and an interested party in any issue 1ha.t may involve the idea of censorship, we also have our OWll view. One argument against fue showing of the film is that the College's funds and facilities should not be used for a pomograp.hic movie. We believe that fuose funds are takea from the students and set aside ·for the students, through the Forum and its subcommittees like tlle Film Committoee. to use as they see fit. The College does not normally C()ncent itself wi lh individual clubs' actions, and should not d.o so now. Look a.t the student activities budget. Dozens of clubs receive funding although a majority of students do not participate in them, or even approve {)f them. Democrats on campus might disapprove of the Young Republicans' views and actions. But the Republicans still deserve their fumding. The Film Committee still deserves tlleir funding if they choose to show the film. The questton follows that who should decide which movies the Filin Committee will be allowed L<> show? One group's objection should not p•revent them from showing a movie. The Film Committee makes every clecision on the b2sis of what they believe swdents want to see. We would also like to note th.at any student concerned vtitll the movie seilecti.on of the committee could have applied to join the committee last year, and can do so again this spring. They are considering student opinion. In this coRtroversial cas.e~ they must be certain to hear the valid a.rgwnents on both sides. And they must consider the question of censorship. Too many grm1ps in this country advocate the banning of bo()ks, movies, and music on the grounds of immorality. Union C<>llege is a community of educated students with a high regard for each others' rights. We are capable of deciding what is best for our community and what will not hurt each other. We cannot allow the decision to be made on the basis of what group yells lou<iesL Whether we decide to show the movie or not, the decision must be based on information from all students. If not we are setting a precedent that any group that objects strongly enowg;h can make a decision for the rest of us on any campus issue-- movies or music, plays or publications. The decision must be ours to mak.e. Any interference in the Film Committee's final decision would be a st:..tement that U11ion students were incapable of making de~isions about their own lives. If the Film Committee, after listening to all students and learning how the campl!s feels, still decides to show the movie, the College could simply disassociate itself from the decision by saying that it was the srudents' decision and does not necessarily reflect the College's view. Alternative To Punishing Fraternities This week Delta Phi was placed on social probati<m and the induction of their pledge class was indefinitely suspended as a result of several incidents. We alllrnowthat this type of incident is not isolated to this fraternit)'. They were the ones who got caught, but tllis is not necessarily an indication that this fraternity is the worst offender. This indicates a flaw in the judgement system. Another problem with the enforcement of the College discipline is that it penalizes a wide variety of infractions with the same general punishment, \social probta.tion,\ which is utiHzed in infractions ran£i.ng from date rape to serving minors. The Administration disciplines fraternities to teach them better social responsibility. Is this lhe most effecti-ve way to promote social responsibility? The Administration has ta.ke1'1 the approach that negative reinforcement is tile most constructive method of encouraging social responsibility. The Administration could use the method of J)()Sitive reinforcement. It could reward fraternities that prac:tice dry rush and developmental pledge programs with funding for social events and house improvements. The Adminu!;tra.tion C(JUid help fraternities bear the burden of supporting our social atmosphere by offering financial suppDrt for fraternities that wished to hire prrofcssional boull1(;Crs or bartenders for parties. They co11ld also fund the non- alcoholic aspects or parties indu:ding dccoratiorn~. rood, musical entertainment... This would promote th.e social allc'-nati'.'C tO ~lcohol that they've long been pushlmg for, '\' \! .,.,_,, ~r,; ·'O'';.;\J '\\''iP•\)\H'thJ.lir. >-I • i •-' 1.,_, I _! ~- > j , ... ' f,h. .!! \.-~- ._, '• ' < ~· • LETTERS College Resources Should Not Support Pornography To the Editor: In response to the scheduling of a pornographic film by the film committee to be shown on February 24, 1988, a group of concerned men and women have gotten together to work toward the cancellation of this film. This is not an objection to pornography i:n general. Obviously, everybody has the right to see whatever they would like to see, in'cluding pornographic films. We are not asking that this right be take!l away. Rataer, we feel taat it is · not Union College's place to provide a pornographic film for the following reasons: the hyprocrisy of the College in supporting the showing of the film, and the possibility of violence or negative attitudes toward women as a result of the film. I Pornography portrays women as sexual objects and reinforces the attitude that women never really mean \n<:~\. Union College has taken great measures to address the issue of male-female relationships on this campus. During orientation, freshmen Professor Opposes Porn Profit To the Editor: One of my biggest objections to allowing Union College Student Activities dollars to be spent renting a so-called \porno\ film is that it helps line the pockets of those reprehensible individuals who produce and market such films. The argument that these movies are \all in good fun\ overlooks the lives which are ruined in their making. I would hate to see the College as an institution in any w11y support this truly sick industry. Individuals are, of course, free to follow their own conscience. Doug Klein, Associate Professor Economics Get a clue. Get an opinion. Read Concordiensis News Analysis. All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. ~------------------------- letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of fg_nco.r.c:U~nsi~: must attend certain programs, such as the discussion led by Dr. Andrea Par:rot this fall, which deal with this subject. Other programs are also offered throughout the academic year. Clearly, the college is con~ cerned about the issue and wishes to promote a healthy atmosphere for the student body. And yet they do not recognize the showing of a pornographic film, sanctioned and supported by the college, as a·hindranceto these·efforts. The college is giving a mixed message by supporting the presentatiDn of such a film. One of the primary respon- sibilities of the college is the safety of the students. Obviously, Uni<:~n must recognize tile potential danger of negative beliefs and attitudes between the men and women on this campllS. Many studies have been done in the last twenty years concerning connections between both violence and negative attitudes toward women and pornography (in- cluding ''non-aggressive'' pornograpby as well as hard- core). There have been studies which both do and do not find correlation between por- nography and violence against women. The most exhaustive study conducted recently was the one completed by the Attorney General's Commission <:~n Pornography in 1986. This study f<:~und a causal relationship between the viewing of \non-violent\ par- nography and both negative attitudes and violent behavior toward women. While chances may be small that the showing of this film will induce violence against women, the negative attitudes invoked by movies such as these are in themselves extremely detrimental. In a small community such as Union, the issues discussed above should be recognized and appropriately acted upon. Should Union College money and public facilities be used for the showing of a pornographic film? We believe that they should not. Respectfully, AnneCarl'88 Representative of Students Against Pornography Campus Women Request Cancellation To the Editor: An open letter to the Film Committee and the Student Forum: The President's Commission on the Status of Women, con- sisting of women faculty, staff, administrators and students, would like to state its support for the Students against Por- nography. We believe that using Union College funds and facilities to screen por- nographic films violates ideals the College seeks to promote- those of sexual equality and respect for all members of our community. We, therefore ask the I<'ilm Committee and Student Forum to cancel the showing of pornographic films. Christina Sorum & Marianne Snowden, Co-Chairs for the President's Commission on the States of Women D._vid;:Guttiv'ef,.Lee Am Sclulu'dt Ediwrs-i:n.~Cb:ief News Editots Feature~ Editors · &soclau:Pe~ !diOOts Intem!tti\(Y.flal Fe~s EditQrs ~taey Page ll&iot · Christine lln~t~· ~tk!en .~Jo;: .W'· '.'~ Arts Edltoi$ ·science Editor ·C$!6pu$ l?~gl) Bditora\ ·Sport$ E(iitors AssOQi~~ Sportsiklitor PhotoEditor' Advtrtising Edin.m; Aw · · 'id .. : Ad . .....t,...O · · l:'l.>l~...,. ~SOC!\'\\ · v.>.wmg t;;wwi Busint~.s Mana~ Honoratr Faculty AdVisor Ainte S'itmm Gfi;y Steibb . · · . ' ., ., .. ·• >: ·>: · 'Lorlit: Jan OokiSte~ Jim Mti¢ \ •. I~ei;. Lisa}AarziW. K:eJley P~k ~ Jlinoldey~ ~Ql'«w Miller Dav~ }4()])]$Qn. \·· '•• . '. 'th LisaB~ .. ·· Lauren Feuennan,l{ith)l Green lJethTumey Brad Mondscheini Karen Simons C. Willi®t Hrantley STAFFt F.Jizab¢tlt Berliner, Otdl IHumenfel~ Laura Catvi, Prabir Chakrabcarty, Lisa Cherande, Greg Chronowski,, Joy Cybut, Alan OeSatvio, Chidsey Dickson,. Amy Elizabeth;. Jennifer &gland, Brian Ferguso11. Elise Foody; Carl Friedrii)h, Alex Gardner, Robert Ooldma:t!. Chris ·~ Martin Heck. Jennifer Holmes, Debra Ht>nig, Alberto Iaia. Stephafiie Jaryna, Daniel J. Keniey, Michele Letrtet, Melissa Levine •. Bd Lin. Franz Litz1 Mary Beth Manning, Cathy Marbs, Tim Mattll:ews, Jason Meshnick, Vitgine Mello, Martina Moure, Lin Ngamttakulpanit, Lisa Otdowet. Stacey Papa, Patrick Ferivier. Tracey Pry luck, Jacqueline Randall, Dave Reisman, Kristen Santos, Suzanne Shatter, 1illian Shanebrook, Michael Silberstei:n, Ezra Shennan, Ellen Tapley~ Conrad Tatge, Mark Van Buren. Mark Zimmerman. ADVEit'f1SlNG STAFF: Michelle Alfano, Robin Baskin, Missy Beal. Jill Deutsch, Helene De Vries, Dina Golas, Lina Leung, Martina Moorr~ [,eslie Morris. Liz Perkowski. PHOTOGRAPHERS: Amy Goldstein, Stan Kitzinger. CONCORDIENSIS is published every 'I1mrsday by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publicaiton, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. Subsctiption rate: $24 per year, delivered anywh-ere in the United States. Concordienslt:> subscribes to the lnteroollegiate Press (IP). Office Telephone (51 R) 370-61~6 rE m Cl pl 0 b~ m S( m D K VI tt Cl ol hi 01 01 rv fl a Sl b r1 s! ll 1 VI c n fl 0 u b 0 v c ~ t r f t ( ! ~ I

i 1 ,j I ,l CONCORDIENSIS, F·ebruary 4, 1988 Page 11 Potential Censorship of Porn is Countered To the Editor: · I .feel compelled to write in response to· the Film. Com· mittee' s recent decision to cancel the showing of a pronographic film at Union Goliege. I am qUite distressed by the way in which the com~ mittee allowed their film schedUle to be censored by a minority group of extremists. Doubtless Stalin, Lenin, Khomeini and Castro would be very pleased, after all, they are the masters of censorship. Apparently the m~tion that censorship is many times more offensive and infinitely more hannful to society than por- nography coQld never have occurred to Miss Feinsod and Miss Hitnak. Aside from the ·fact that ~ censorship is abominable in all cases, unless something which is false is being presented as fact, the reasons given for why the fihn should not be shown are ludicrous and weak at best. 1) \Pbrnography portrays wome~ as sexual objects\ Although I am hardly a connoisseur of pornography, in my experience if there is a female portrayed as a sexual object on the screen, tbere is usually also a male with h.er being portrayed as a sexual object as wen. In· fact, the woman is frequently the corninant character. 2.) \Pornography ... reinforces the attitude that women never really mean 'no'.\ In none of the pornographic films which I have ever seen has a rape of any type ever occurred. The fact is,. unless you get into the really hardcore stuff found in the inner cities, rape is far more common in regular \R\ rated movies which are shown in theaters everywhere, including this campus, without protest. In addition, the student body of this school can generally be de]Jended upon to have at least an iota of intelligence despite the college's increasirigly lower admission standards. I feel that_ one can safely assume that a student at this school could' watcll a pot:nogr:aphic film and not c{)me out of it believing that what he--she just saw was an accurate representation of real life. Pornographic fihns are :fiction and are U()t intendEd to be interpreted as being representative .of real life any more .than JJamiJi was intended to be~ Should we ban Bambi in order to prevent our children from growing up believing that animals can speak? 3) \ ... the Attol.'1ley General's , Commission on Por- nography .•. found a causal relationsh~p between viewing 'non-violent' portlography and both negative attitucles and viole:nt behav:i.or ag,ainst women.\· . The authors ()f the above statement themselves disco·unted the likeliness of violence again~t women being caused by the viewing of this film on our campus. I assume they did this because they consi.>der the student body of our college intelligent and ed11cated enough as to be inunWle to such irrational behavior. What they seem to have ign()red, however, is tbat the st:udents of this college are equally WllikEly to develop a negative attitude towards women for the very same reasons that they are unliltely to act violently towards them. Apparently the authors of \Pu:rpose · Against Por- nogr:apht' have very seLective memories, i>therwise they would have .included the fact that the people who were found to be affected in the ways they suggested wer-e, on the average, below the poverty level and generally uneducated. The members of the student body of this college are quite likely to be abo'J'e the pover:ty level Bfter havtng attended this scb()ol and can;quite defini.t~y be assumed to be well ed11cated. Using only half the. truth to promote your owlli. interest,s is unwise, unethical and altogether unfair to those who do not shar-e your beliefs. Although Meese, who is not educated enough in the ap~r()priate fields to make such a judgment, declared that pornography cUd cause negative traits to appear in certain in- dividuals, the commission was far from being in agreement on this matter. Commission member Deanne Tilton was quoted as saing in The Washington Post, \Watching this material for a year did not cr!:>ate deviant bel1avior on the r\'::t of .the commissioners. At least I don't know of any of the commissioners being arrested for sex crimes. I certainly haven't been.\ So girls where's your case? This whole issue is really quite absurd .. A few radical feminists get all riled up aoout something as inconsequential as the possible philosophical im· plications of a pornographic film being shown on our campus and the Film Ccmmittee lets their schedule be compromised. The fact is that there would· be no long term effect on the psyche of the student body caused by the sb()wfug of one pornographic film a. year, as evidenced by the fact that they have been Shown before and there have been no directly connected incidents. The only things that cancelling this film accomplishes are 1) the Film Committee loses their most profitable event of the year and 2) the Film Committee con- dones censorship and gives an extremist minority group some. degree of creQibility on this campus. If you are interested in having a screening of a film of this sort, write me at Box 907 and, as a matter of principle, I will make arrangements on my own to have one, on campus, if there is enough interest, free of charge. Sincerely, Christopher D. Horn '89 P .S. Apparently ()ur Student Forum has some common sense and has decided to put this ~tter to a vote. If by some miracle the film is again rejected I will still have a screening, if there is enough interest. Male Student Change.s His Opinion T~theEditor:· Mter reading the letter in the January 28 issue of Con· cordlensis titled \Plll\JlOSe Against Pornography'', I was outraged. I asked myself how a small group of feminist liberals were going to dictate their views over everyone else's and deny me the right of seeing this filnl. I saw the film last year, and would probably go see it if it is shown this year. It's funny and no one takes it seriously I don't disapprove of por- nography. Recently, I have talked with the committee against the showing of a pornographic film spGnsored by Union College and I am now in complete support of their fight. The reasons for my drastic change of opinion are as follows. First I cried censorship. This argument is fallacious when yotL consider Union College. We are not a free and liberal country (if we ·were, would we have gt> 1 time?). We area self contai[~:..u institiution for th pur:pose of intellectual growth. When we, the students) elect to caJtcel the film, this does not in artr way constitute censorship. If the administration had balllled the film, that wollld be ceM()rship and should be severely criticized. Secondly, tile issue over pornographic movies causing Violence may or mal 11ot be true. But if an incident does occur followillg the showing of the movie, n()t only will the victim be hurt b11t the rest of the collEge comnlunity will suffer as a whole. I will agree that most of the people at Union Colli.ege will not have their views influenced in any way by this movie, but if Dan the doid fronn· across tlle street gets in with. his fourteen year old son, I hope the women on the campus will use the escort service thatnight. The issue here is not whether we approve or disapprove of pornographic films. The issue is, if we as a college community ' are willing to sacrifice the safety of the W()men on this campus for the benefit of one nights entertainment. Union College as a whole;should not support an action that will be detrimental to the whole campus. Give up the movie, it just might be your life you're saving. Besides, if you want to see a. porn movie that badly, get ten of your friendS together and go rent Wendy Wants Wanda and a VCR for seven dollars. Tfult way you have three dollars left over for a twelve pack of Meister Brau. · RaymondJ. Holst '90 The Film Committee will held an Open Forum, Monday, February 8, from 8:00•9:00 The Issue: Whether or not the Film Committee should offer an X-rated 1ilm ini its schedule. . Both sides will have three miniJtes to spe:ak, two minutes for rebuttal and one minute for a closing statement. The floorwill then be ()pen for questions and opinions. All interested parties who want to participate as spokespersons for or against should contact the moderator, Mike Hiller at 38&4191. lhe Film Committee is interested in knowing how the campus feels on this matter. We ~rge everyone's partiCipation. LETTERS Females Don't Favor Film Removal Tothe Editor: We are tiredofpeople looking at us like we are crazy when we refuse to sign a petition to prevent the · showing of the pornographic film. People assume that just because we are women that we will gladly put our signatures down. Although we are not interested in seeing this. movie personally, we do not think it· should be cancellled. Because we are women in our third year at Union we have first . hand unde~:standing that this movie is .not the \root .of all evil,, as certain studies would have us believe. Let's invite the authors of these cited studies to a Union College party where theywould be offered unlimited quantities of free· alcohol while . mingling witba group of people virtually uneducated by their college about just how likely it is that later that evening they could be the next victim or perpatrator of~ rape. it seems to usthat llle heart of the acquaintancE ·rape problem, does not lie ln the showing of this film. Tllis issue is obviously perpetuated :by the above mentioned p.roblems of alcohol abuse and a lack of thorough education on tllesllbject. Isn't your Cl()llege experience supposed to J)r~pare you for the real world.? By uselessly sheltering <Ollr~elves from a movie, we axe :hiding from the harsh realities. of what rape really is. Time and effort in- vested in ()re:venting the showing of Ulis movie could be better spent on a freshmen orientation eommittee ex- pressly l'es.ponsible for . educating . Fill incoming fresfunen a llCJut acquamtance rape. Let's wake up and deal wit~ the real·i~saes. :!Mi.C'llelle Maratto '89 :Marcie Daniels '89 A Defense of Pornography To the Edjtor: . I promise tllat there are many · other students in this country . that shared my misconception about college - I used to . beli~ve that one of the major goals of higher education was to foster the development of minds that were capable of analytic reasoning and reception to new ideas. I recently learned, rather, was.t()1d, that there are certain ideas that no one should ever be exposed to. These ideas are certain ideas that can be likened to the Satanical · Necronomicon., in which the reader gra~ually becomes completely insane with each passing page. If you are like I was, you probably do know which the daBgerous ideas are - the ones that will turn you from a diligent college student into a depraved madman. Fortunately for use, ·we go to school with the philosophers Denise Feinsod and Stephanie Hirnak. They have freed themselves fr()m the chains of the cave and have seen the light. They have enlightened us to the fact that pornography will destory olll' minds if we are exposed to it. I cite the prophets from thelast sennon in which they insist that there is a ''potential danger of negative beliefs ... \ and \the negative attitudes are extremely detrimental.\ Thus, being exposed to certain ideas iB harmful. What's worse we arE told, is that \the college is giving a mixed m£-ssage to students\ by holding discussions at orientation while still sanctic.ning the por· nographic film. God forbid one of us should have to think on our own and make up our own min<' about the validity of tht. criticisms cf pornography. In the first of the two scrip- tures, \Pornographic Film Protested', (Jan. 14), they cited the Attorney General's Com- mission on Pornography and Dr. Paula J.Kaplanin defense of their enlightened despotic view. .Althmagh I was aware that Edwin Meese's report contradicted the 1970 Presidential· commission on pOrnography ·that found no casual link between por- nography and. violence, 81ld I was aware that there was no scientifi~ research sponsored by Meese's commission, and I was aware that the committee based its co11cl11Sions primarily on first pel.\'sCJn testimonies of victims of s:e~ual abuse, and I was aware tll_at the Society for the Scientific: St11dy of Sex lashed out 11t the report saying its findings i\'ere \incomplete and inadeqtDa:te1' and would be harmfu. ~o f11ture research in that area, a11d l was aware that some of th~ J:\esearchers who testified satcl: tbat their work on pornograph:v had been misinterpre-te!l since they believed tllat depictions of violence, nCJt pornography, is harmful, a11d I was aware that the Institlltfoli of Criminal Justice in Co:penhagen found that in E;mropean countries where porno(!;r;aphy restrictions were abolislle~, incidence of rape actu.:all)' declined or remained ICO!lstant over the past 10 to. ~0 years, and I was aware that io .Arabic countries where 1Pt9rnography is outlawed, 'W!'Olllen do not have a partirularlyr admirable position in so~·'ety, 1111d I was aware that, historie:ally, violence and sexisn~ hnE persisted and thrived de11p1~ illiteracy and lack of ptll'll()graphy, I had faith. I wculid not fall prey to those who bELieve, like I did, that besides: advocating and censorship; the anti-porn movement is dangerous in that it turns atte11tion ~way from real causes: of violence .against women and ~revents us from finding teail ~olutions. Who can believe paltcy facts when the Students· A.ll;ai.nst Pornography had the film .committee on their side? WhOo c;an believe jour· nalist Mal.\'cia Pally, whom I owe credit fCJr much of the previous, whlen she suggested in a speech dElivered to the American I..ibracy Association in 1986 that the anti-porn stance is \a quic!;; £ix that kidS us into thinking true sdution to. abus.e is just a matter of bannmg dirty pictures?,. My praise ultimately .lies with the film conunittee- si11ce I believe that the ones ~Ito take action are morally r.es!)Onsible for their actions. Des.]lite several lengthy articles o))P'(lsing censorship in Concerdleuls, the film com- mittee hal e11ough courage and wisdom tfJ :see when the FirSt Amendmeilll was rubbish and where tht!! itleal, however ab- surd BJld wtfGunded it might be, should triiiiElpb. Bravo!

,. ,,. ' CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1988 Page 11 Potential Censorship of Porn is Countered To the Editor: I feel compelled to writoe in response to the Film Com- mittee's recent decision to cancel the showing of a pronographi.c fUm at Union College. I am quite d.istre;Ssed by the way in which the com- mittee aUowed their !film schedule to be censared by a min.ority group of extremists. Doubtless Stalin, L~ni.n, Khomeini and Castro woultd be very pleased, after all, theyr are the masters of censorship. Apparently the nqtion that censorship is many times more offensive and infinitely more harmful to society than por- nography could never I:Jave occurred to Miss Feinsod and Miss Himak. Aside from the fact that censorship is abominable in all cases, uoless something which is falsoe is being presented as fact, the reasons given far why the film should not be shown are ludicrous and weak at bes:t. 1) \P()rnography portl'ays women as sexual objects\ Although I am har<ILy a connoisseur of pornograph.y, in my experience if there is a female portrayed as a sex:ual object on the screen, thell'e is usually also a male with! her being p<>rtrayed as a sex:ual object as well. In fact, the woman is frequently the cominant character. 2.) \P<>rnegraphy ... reinfarces the attitude that women never really mean 'no'.\ In none of the pornographic films which I have ever seen has a rape of any type ever occurred. The fact is, unles.s you get into the really hardcore stuff found in the inner c:ities, rape is far more common in regular \R\ rated rnClvies which are shown in theoaters everywhere, including this campus, without protest. In addition, the student body of this school can. generally be depended upon to have at least an iota of intelligence despite the college's increasingly ]ower admissi~n standards. I fe~l that one can safely assume that a student at this school could watch a pornographic film and not come out .of it believing that what he-she just saw was an accurate representation of real Hfe. Pornographic films are fiction and are nat intended to be interpreted as being representative of real life any more than Bambi was intended to be. Should we ban Bambi in order to prevent our chHdren from growing up believing that animals can speak? 3) ·• ... the Attorney General's Commission on Por- nography ... found a causal relationship between viewing 'non-violent' pornography and both negative attitudes and violent behavior against women.\ The authors of the above s t at em e nt t h ems e 1 v e s discounted the likeliness of violence against women being caused by the viewing of this film on our campus. I assume they did this because they consider the student body of our college intelligent and educated enough as to be immune to such irrational behavior. What they seem to have ignored, however, is that the students of this college are equally unlikely to develop a negative attitude towards women for the very same reasons that they are unlikely to act violently towards them. Apparently the authors of \Purpose Against Por- nography\ have very selective memories, otherwise they would have included the fact that the people who were found to be affected in the ways they suggested were, on the average, below the poverty level and generally uneducated. The members of the student body of this college are quite likely to be above the poverty level after having attended this school and can quite definitely be assumed to be well educated. Using only half the truth to promote your own interests is unwise, unethical and altogether unfair to those who do not share your beliefs. Although Meese, who is not educated enough in the appropriate fields to make such a judgment, declared that pornography did cause negative traits to appear in certain in- dividuals, the connnissio11 was far from being in agreement on this matter. Commission member Deanne Tilton was quoted as saing in The Washington Post, ''Watching this material for a year did not cr~ate deviant behavior on the rr~ of the commissioners. At least I don't know of aay of the commissioners being arrested for sex crimes. I certainly haven't been.\ So girls wnere's your case? This whole issue is really quite absurd. A few radical feminists get all riled up about something as inconsequential as the possible philesophical im- plications of a pornographic film being shown on our campus and the Film Committee lets their schedule be compromised. The fact is that there would be no long term effect on the psyche of the student body caused by the showing of one pornographic film a year, as evidenced by the fact that they have been shown before and there have been no directly connected incidents. The only things that cancelling this film accomplishes are 1) the Film Committee loses their most profitable event of the year and 2) the Film Committee con- dones censorship and gives an extremist minority group some degree of credibility an this campus. If you are interested in having a screening of a film of this sort, write me at Box 907 and, as a matter of principle, I will make arrangements on my own to have one, on campus, if there is enough interest, free of charge. Sincerely, Christopher D. Horn '89 P.S. Apparently our Student Forum has some common sense and has decided to put this matter to a vote. If by some miracle the film is again rejected I will still have a screening, if there is enough interest. Male Student Change.s His Opinion To the Editer:. After reading the letter in the January 28 issue of Con- cordieuis titled ''Pwrpose Against Pornography\ I was outraged. I asked myself ilow a small gro11p of feminist liberals were gDing to dictate their views over everyone else\s and deny me the right of seei~g this film. I saw the film last year, and would probably go se~ it if it is shown this year. It's funny and no Dne takes it serio11Sly I don~t disapprove of por- nography. Recently, I have talked with the committee against the showing of a pornographic film sponsored by Union College and I am now in complete support of their fight. The reasons f.or my drastic change of opinion ,are as follows. First I cried censorship. This argument is fallacious when you consider Union College. We are not a free and liberal country (if we were, would we have gE>' time?). We are a self contai:.-~..., institiution for th purpose of intellectual growth. When we, the students, elect to cancel the film, this does not in any way constitute censorship. If the administration had banned the film, that would be censorship and should be severely criticized. Secondly, the issue over pornograpbic movies causing violence may or may not be true. But if an incident does occur following the showing of the movie, not only will the victim be hurt but the rest of the college community will suffer as a whole. I will agree that most of the people at Union College will not have their views influenced in any way by this movie, but if Dan the doid from acmss the street gets in with his fourteen year old son, I hope the W()men on the campus will use the escort service thatnight. The issue here is not whether we approve or disapprove of pornographic films. The issue is, if we as a college community · are willing to sacrifice the safety of the women on this campus for the benefit of one nights entertainment. Union College as a whole,should not support an action that will be detrimental to the whole campus. Give up the movie, it just might be yeur life you're saving. Besides, if you want. to see a porn movie that badly, get ten of your friends together and go rent Wendy Wants Wanda and a VCR for seven dollars. That way you have three dollars left over for a twelve pack of Meister Brau. Raymond J .. Holst '90 The Film Committee will hold an Open Forum, Mo~nday, February 8, from 8:00-9:00 Tile Issue: Whet1liler or not the Film Committee should offer an X-rated film ini its schedule. Both sides will ha\e three minutes to speak, two minutes for rebuttal and one minute for a closing statement.. The floor will then be open for questions and opinions. AU interested parties who want to participate as spokespersons for or against should con1act the moderator, Mike Hiller at 386-4191. The Film Committee is interested .in knowing how the carmpus feels on this matter. We urge everyone's participation. LETTERS Females Don't Favor FHm Removal To the E!litor: We are tired of people laoking at us like we are crazy when we refuse to sign a petition to prevent the showing ef the pornographic film. People assume that just because we are worne11 that we will gladly put our signatures down. Altheug:h we are not interested in seeing tllis movie personally, we do not think it should be cancellJ.ed. Becawe we are women in our third year at Union we have fkst hand understanding that this moviE is not the ''root of all evil,\ as certain studies would have us b<tllieve. Let's invite the authors of these cited studies to a Union College party where theywould be offered unlimited quantities of free alcohol whiie mingling with a group of people virtually uneducated by their college a bout just how likely it is that later that evening they could be the next victim or perpatrator of a rape. it seems to ustha t the heart of the acquaintance rape problem does not lie in the showing of this film. This issue is obviously perpetuated by the above mentioned problems of alcohol abuse and a lack of thorough education on the subject. Isn't your colege experience supposed to prepare you for the real world? By uselessly sheltering ourselves from a movie, we are hiding from the harsh realities of what rape really is. Time and effart in- vested ia preventing the showing of this movie could be better spen.t en a freshmen orientation committee ex- pressly responsible for educating all incoming freshmen abaut acquaintance rape. Let's wake up and deal with the real issues. Michelle Maratto '89 Marcie Daniels '89 A Defense of Pornography To the Editor: I promise that there are many other stuldents in this country that shaifed my misconception about c>Ollege - I used to believe that one of the major goals of higher education was to foster the development of minds that were capable of analytic reasonin,g and reception to new ideas. I recently learned, rather, was told, that there are certain iodeas that no one should ever be ex:posed to. These ideas are cert-ain ideas that can be likened to the Satanical Necromomicon, in which the reader gradually becomes completely insane with each passing page. It you are like I was, y~u probably do know which t!J.e dangerous ideas are - the ones that will turn you from a diligent college student into a depraved madman. Fortunately for use, we go to school 1With the philosophers Denise Feinsod and Stephanie Hirnak. They have freed themselves from the chains of the cavE and have seen the light. They have enlightened us to the Eact that pornography will destvry our minds if we are expose<! t() it. I cite the prophets from tllelast sennon in which they lnsist that there is a \potenti.c~l danger of negative beliefs ..• \ and \the negative attitudes are extremely detrime11tal.\ Thus, being exposed to certain ideas is harmfuL What's worse we are told, ls that \the college is giving a mixed mtssage to students\ by holding discussi1011s at orientation while still s;anctioning the por- nograpllic film. God forbid one of us should have to think on om own an(i make up our own mim about the validity of tht criti.cisrns of pornography. In the first of the two scrip- tures, \Pornographic Film Protested\ (Jan.l4), they cited the Attorney General's Com- missioll on Pornography and Dr. Paula J. Kaplan in defense of theilr enlightened despotic view. Although I was aware that Edwin Meese's report contra<licted the 1970 Presid~ntial commission on porno,graphy that found no casual link between por- nograplly and violence, and I was a\lVare that there was no scientifie research spcmsored by Meese's commission, and I was aware that the committee based its conclusions primarily on first person testimonies of victims of sexual abuse, and I was aware that the Society for the Scientific Study of Sex lashed out at the report saying its findings were \incomplete and inadequate\ and would be harmfu. :o future research in that area, and I was aware that some of the researchers who testified said that their work on pornography had been misinterpreted since they believed that depictions of violence, not pornography, is harmful, and I was aware that the Institution of Criminal Justice in Copenhagen found that in European countries where pornography restrictions were abolished, incidence of rape actually declined or remained constant over the past 10 to 20 years, and I was aware that in Arabic countries where pornography is outlawed, women do not have a partkclarly admirable position in s• ·~· ety, and I was aware that, historically, violence and sexisn. havE: persisted and thrived desptte illiteracy and lack of pornography, I had faith. I would not fall prey to those who believe, like I did, that besides advocating and censorship, the anti-porn movement is dangerous in that it turns attention away from real causes of violence against women and prevents us from finding real solutions. Who can believe paltry facts when the Students Against Pornography had the film conunittee on their side? Who can believe jour- nalist Marcia Pally, whom I owe credit for much of the previous, when she suggested in a speech delivered to the American Library Association in 1936 that the anti-porn stance is \a quick fix that kids us into thinking the solution to abuse is just a matter of banning dirty pictures?\ My praise ultimately lies with the film committee since I believe that the ones who take action are morally responsible for their actions. Despite several lengthy articles opposing censorship in Coocordiensis, the film com· mittee bad enough courage and wisdom to see when the First Amendment was rubbish and where the ideal, however ab- surd and unfoWlded it might be, should triumph. Bravo! Cevin Soling '18

·' • ••• . .!- .:•: .... .:.......:.:~~.:....:.:.·.::._ -·· .. ~· .. .: . ...:~ ··--··.::.:...:.:..:: .. :·~~~---:::~-.:·:-:;· =-:-:--: . - ......... ·--·---#>····· ·' ....... ......_;_ .. ·-· .~· .... !\··· ··- J,.O.' '\-'\\'--··-J···~ .......... .. FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Winter Term - 1987-88 · IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular \day\ Wldergraduates courses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced. and students in \Section 51 and 52\ comses should be alert for the announcement of thee~ time fot those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Adey in the Office of the Registrar, Whitaker House, no later than march 4, 1988. · Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed ~low is the code of the bpildings to be used. ARTS - Arts Building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR. - Butterfield Hall HUMN- Humanities Building NWSE - North Wing, Sci./Eng. Ctr. PYCH - P~ychology Laboratory MONPAY. MA&CH 14-9:00-11:00 A.M. BI0-066 - Sex & Sexuality Sec. 1 - F. Lambert- SSCI 016 Sec. 2 - F. Lambert - SSCI 016 MTH-010 - Calculus I Sec. 1 - T. Prindle - BAIL 201 Sec. 2 - T. Prindle- BAIL 201 MTH-012- Calculus n Sec. 1 - E. Gillette - BAIL 205 Sec. 3 - M. Frame - BUTR 106 Sec. 4 - J. Coffey- BUTR 300 Sec. 5- J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 207 Sec. 6 .,. J. Muckenfuss - BAIL 207 MI'H-014- Calculus m . Sec. 1- A. Seiken- BAIL 108 Sec. 3 - B. Zwicker -BAIL 106 Sec. 4- W. Stone- BAIL 203 Sec. 5- L. Tatevossian- BUTR 109 MTII-020- Math Methods for·Soc. Sci. I Sec. 1- J. Hefferon- BAIL 104 Sec. 2- J. Hefferon- BAIL 104 Sec. 3 • K. Zimmermann - BAIL 102 MONDAY. MARCH 14 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. SSCI - Social Science Bldg. STZH - Steinmetz Hall BIO-Q18·01 • mtroduction to Biology IT - 0. ButterStein/M. Frohlich - SSCI 016 BI0-138-01 ·Modem Parasitology- T. Styles- BAIL 205 BI0-160-01- Histology &Organology- W. Roth- BAIL 207 CSC-040..02 - Machine & Assembly Language -F. Federighi - NWSE 014 EC0-012-02 - Introduction To Economics - L. Sage - SSCI 112 EC0-020-01- Intro To Statistical Analysis- S. Schmidt- SSCl 014 EC0-039-01 .. Public Finance a T. McCarty -BAIL 106 EER-124-01- Intro to Probabilistic Systems- E. Craig- NWSE 116 EGL-020-01 -Major English Authors II - A. Frazier- HUMN 014 EGL-020-02 -Major English Authors II - J. McCord - HUMN 115 . ELL-049-01 - Nuclear Technology - J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 f/RN-011-02 -Basic French II - S. DeTaisne- HUMN 114 GE0-031-01 -Mineralogy- K. Holloclier- BUTR 202 GER-133-01 - Mastering Written German - D. Lund- HUMN 116 GRK.-011-01 - Principles of Greek TI .. C. Sorum - HUMN 119 HST-051·01 • MOdem Germany 1815·1939 ·E. HanSen • SSCI 104 HST -9()9-01 - Model1J.J~WJ..le~ ffi~tpry - D. Thurston - BAIL 104 HST-072-01- The Early History Of 'The Jews- S. Berk- SSCI 103 JPN-012-01 - Intermediate Japanese- Nakagawa- HUMN 110 ... MER-030-01 -Dynamics OfLmear Systems- R. Guntur- NWSE 210 · MTH•018-01 - Intro to Logic and Set Theory - S. Niefiel(l- BAIL 102 MTH-060-01 -Topics In Mathematical Pol Sci- A. Taylor- BAIL203 PHL-020-01 .. Classical Logic - S. Kaminsky - HUMN 019 PHY-013-02- Introduction to Physics II- D. Peak- NWSE012 PHY -OSZ-61 - Clt\fim~id M.~tlmdc~-- S.. M~- NWS-E. 303 .. PSC-011-01- ContemiJSrary A,.mertcan POlitics • T. Holbrook- &SCI 01~ PSC-023-01 - Topics 1n Mathematical Pol Sci - A. Taylor - BAIL 203 · PSY -010-01 - A First Course in Psychology - D. Spring - PYCH 113 PSY-036-01- Principles of Learning- B. Moore- PYCH 102 _._.. ....... \'\P''O. ~. ,7 ..... \' ...... ,...TT 1 ~ o .. .,n 1 n.~n A \l..f EER-144- Communication Systems I Sec. 1 - M. Rudko - BU1R 204 Sec. 2 - M. Rudko - BU'I'Q. 204 GER-144·01- Special Topic In 20rh Century .. S. Kellentet -.HUMN 117· ITL-012-01 -Intermediate Italian- Keyes- HUMN 110 MTH-136-01- Real Variable Theory I- M. Frame- BAR.. 201 PHL-078--01- Technological Values- S. Kaminsky- HUMN 115 PHY -013-04 .- Introduction to Physics II - A. Ander$0n - NWSE 012 . PHY -042-01 - Great Ideas Of Modem Physics - R. Magahiz- STZH 106 PSG-053-01 - Internatl Pol In East Asia - D. Thurston - SSCI112 PSY -010-04 - A First Course in Psychology - B. Moore - PYCH 113 RUS-134-01 -Intermediate Russian III- N. Jetnakoff- HUMN 014 SOC-169-01- Women & Work: Cross Cultrl Persp- D. Walczak- SSCI 105 SPN-133-01- Mastering Written Spanish- R. Vinick- HUMN 116 WEDNESDAY. MARCH 16- 2:Q0-4:00 P.M. BI0-150-01- Evolutionary Biology- J. Boyer .. PYCH 102 C:ER-128-01- Structural Analysis- M. Mafi- BUTR 104 CER-131-01 -Structural Steel- P. Weiss- BU1R 300 CHM-154-01 -Physical Chemistry III- D. Hayes- NWSE 016 CLS-022-01- History of Rome: The Republic- J. Marincola- HUMN 019 CSC-011-01 - Programming For Soc Sciences - J. Castleberry - NWSE 014 EC0-031-01- Microeconomic Analysis- L. Sage- SSCI 112 EC0-054-01 -Law And Econoll)ics - L. McCarthy - SSCI 012 EER-133-01- Communication Circuits .. E. Hassib- BUTR 109 EGL-052-01 - Literamre Of The Middle Ages -A. Scott .. HUMN 112 ESC-022-02 - Science of Engin Materials - L. Peterson - BU1R 204 ESC-026-02 - Thermodynamics - W. Aubrey .. NWSE 222 ESC-033-01- Fluid Systems Analysis- R. Ranganathan- NWSE 210 FRN-133-01 -Mastering Written French- S. Hash- HUMN 014 FRN-134-01- Mastering Spoken French- C. Laparra- HUMN 110 HST-014-01- HistofU.S. Since Civil War- F. Dudderi- SSCI 104 HST-036-01- History Of Europe II- S. Berk- SSCI 016 HST -041-01 - Medieval Europe - S. Sargent - SSCI 014 MTH-040-01 - Applied Linear Algebra - A. Seiken - BAD., 207 MTH-130-01- Complex Analysis- L. Tatevossian- BAIL 102 PHL-070-01 - Hist & Philo Of Science I - J. LudWig - HUMN 113 PHY-011-03- Introduction to Physics I- D. Peak,. STZU 106 PHY-134-01- Physical Optics- J. Newman- NWSE 303 PSC-047-01- Law & Public Policy- J. Board .. SSCl103 PSY -020-01 - Statistical Methods In Psychol- H. Foley - PYCH 213 PSY -062-01 - Practicum in Human Relations I \' J. Girdner - PYCH 204 RUS-011-01- Basic Russian II- N. Jemakoff- HUMN 116 SOC-163-01 - Hist Of Sociological Thought -D. Walczak\' SSCI 110 WEDNESDAY. MARCH 16- 6:30-8:20 P.M; CSC-034-01 - Cobol & Information Processing • S. Chadwick - BAll.. 201 THURSDAY. MARCH 17 ,. 8:30-10:30 A.M. EC0-020-02 - Intro To Statistical Analysis - L. Cavalluzzo - SSCI 112 HST-085-01 -History Of MOdem Science -.M. Walker- SSCI 213 PSY -010-03 • A First Course in Ps;ychology - K. DeBono - PYCH 113 THURSDAY. MARCH 17 - 11:15-1:1~ PHY -011 - Introduction to Physics I Sec. 1 -D. Johnson - BUTR 204 Sec. 2 - K. Patton-Hall M BUTR 204 PHY -013 - Introduction to Physics II. Sec. 1 - G. Reich- BAIL 207 Sec. 3 .. G. Reich- BAIL 2fJ7,· THURSDAY. MARCH 17- ~;004;00 P.Mi CHM-010- Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1 - J. Anderson - BAIL 201 Sec. 2- D. Hayes- BAlL W7 Sec. 3 - D. Hayes -BAIL 207 < \tl D:l\ O'Q , ·~ ..... N ~ c ~ c ~ ti; ~ ~ \ ~ Cb '=\ ... =: Q ~ ...,rf:4. ,.,.,. !

~ . ., ·, . .t\.t:l Y ·Ul-'·U..!.- illUUU.Ul.:UUil W ruy;su,;:s .u. • JV •. ~~ • :o--.. n ..,....., \\'\\\\ PHY -osz .. ot - Cl~~i(,i@l M~h\mic~-- S.. :M~- NWS~303 , PSC-011-01 - contempo::rary 4ID.efican Politics • T~ Holbrook- 5SCI OlZ PSC-023-01 - Topics 1n Mathematical Pol Sci - A. Tl\yloJi - BAIL 203 · PSY -010.:01 - A First Course in Psychology • D. Spring • PYCH 113 PSY ·036-01 • Principles of Learning .. B. Moore - PYCH 102 :TIJESDAY. MARCH 15., 8:~0-10:30 A.M._ · ARS-()76-01 - Hist of Cbine'se & Japanese Art- D. Thurston- ARTS 215 CSC-118-01 • Logical Dsgn Of Digital Comp -C. Traver-- BAIL 108 EC0-012-03 - Introduction To. Economics - D. Phaup - SSCI 104 EC0-042-02 .. Macroeconomic Theory & Policy .. E. Motahar - SSCI 104 EER-118-01- Logical Dsgn Of :Digital Comp .. C. Traver ... BAlL 108 EER-163-01- Electromagnetic Engineering li- J. Mallick- NWSE 1~6 FRN .. 149-01 - The Twentieth Century Novel-L. Day- HtJMN'l12 GE0-050-01 -Environmental Geology..() P. Ryberg- BUTR 204 HST-066-01 - Hist OfChinese & Japanese Art- D. Thurston-· ARTS 215 LAT-137-01- Latin Epic- C. Soruin- HUMN 213 MIH-101.01 ·Advanced Calculus For :Sngrs- K. ZimmennanJt- BAIL 201 M1H 140-01 -Linear Algebra-S. Niefield- BAR. 102 PHL-32A-01 -Modem Philo~Descartes-Leibniz - J. Ludwig· HUMN 119 PHY-119-01- Relativity, Gravitation, & Cosmolgy- R. Alpher- STZH 106 PSC-0 12-02 - Contemporary International Pol - C. Gati - SSCI Hl3 PSY-048-01- Psychotherapy I-T. Dowling- PYC!f 113 STA-110-01- Intro to Statistical Methods I -1. Lambrinos- BAIL 205 :rtJESDAY. MARCH 15-11:15-1:15 · · ARS ()4() -lntrodnctlon to M~ic, Pari I Sec. 1 - H. Wilson - ARTS 210 & 215 Sec. 2 - H. Wilson • ARTS 210 & 215 'TI1ESDAY. MARCH 15 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. BI0-016-01 - Introducdon To Biology 1- P. Tobiessen - SSCI 016 BI0-024-01 - Genetics. And Evolution - J. Beyer/H. Butzel • BAIL 207 BI0-162-0 1 - Intro To Neurobiology ~ F. Lambett/R. Olberg - BAn. 205 CER-143-01- Foundations & Construction- G. Gifford- BUIR 104 CHM-142-01 -Chemical Instrumentation- T. Werner- NWSE 014 CSC-012-01 -Programming For Natrl Sciences - L. Almstead- NWSE 016 EC0-012-01 -Introduction To Economics • L. Mccarthy - SSCI 010 EC0-040-01- Labor Economics- P. Prosper- SSClll2 EGL-019-01 - Major English Authors I - R. Stevenson - HUMN 114 EGL-:027-01 - Comedy - P. Heinegg • HUMN 019 ELL-012-01 - Homes, Bldgs, & Egr Principle5 - G. Harlow - BUTR 109 ESC-010-0l - Mechanics I - M. Mafi - BUTR 300 ESC-022-01 - Science of Engin Materials - F. Milillo·- NWSE 210 ESC-026-01 - Thermodynamics - P. Ranganathan- NWSE 222 FRN-010-01 - Basic French I- L. Day- HUMN 112 PRN-0 114l1 - Dame French ll - C. Laparra \ HUMN 116 GBR.·OIO·Ol • Basic German I· D. Limd - HUMN 110 OER-011-01 - Basic German ll- K. Hamm-Ensani- HUMN 117] HST-035-01- History ofEurope I- E. Hansen- SSCI 104 LAT -011-01 - Principles of Latin II - J. Marincola - HUMN 119 MTH-030-01 - Ordin Differential Equations - w. Stone- BAIL 201 PHY -132-01 • Electromagnetism ll - W. Titus • NWSE 303 PSC-012-01- Contemporary International Politics .. W. Clinton ... SSCI 014 PSY-162-Ql- Intro To N~urohiology- F. Lambert- BAIL 205 SOC-010-01- Intro to Sociology· J. Harttnan- SSCI 104 SPN-011-01- Basic Spanish ll ~ T. Toscano- HUMN 115 WEDNESDAY. MAACH 16 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. ARS-133-01 -Modem Art, Part ll- D. Robbins- ARTS 210 EC0-031-02- Microeconomic Analysis- D. Klein- SSCI 112 EC0-034-01 - Intro to Financial Analysis - B. Lewis • SSCI 104 t' - ~ Sec. 3 .. G. Reich - BAlL 201,· TifiJRSDAY. MARCH 17- ~;00-4;00 P.M. CHM-010- Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1 - J. Anderson - BAIL 201 Sec. 2 - D. Hayes - BAll. 207 Sec. 3 - D. Hayes ·BAIL W7 CHM-032 -Fundamental Chemistry U Sec. 1 - W. Martin- BUTR 204 Sec. 2 - L. Hull - BUTR 204 · . CHN-012-01 - Inrtermediate Chinese- Z. D. Zhu- HUMN 116 ESC-031- Electrical Circuits & Pevices I Sec. 1 - L. Hollander - SSCI 016 Sec. 2 - L. Hollander - SSCI 016 ESC-048 - Semiconductor Devices & Cit Sec. 1 - E. Hassib - NWSE 116 Sec. 2- Y. Chang- BAll.. 108 GRK-135-01 -Plato .. G. Meltzer- HUMN 213 MTH;~ 127-01 - Npmerical Analysig - W. Fairchild - BAll.. 102 PSY -015-01 - Intro To Experilllental Psychol • H. Foley • PYCII 213 FRIDAY. MARCH 18- 9:0Q-,ll:OQ A.M. ACC-010-01 -Financial Accounting I - J. Lippitt .. BAIL 207 BI0-062-01 -World Agriculture- P. Tpbiessen/M. Schadler- BAlL 106· BI0-170-01- Endocrinology- G. Butterstein- HUMN019 CSC-010·0-1 - Computers And Computiqg - G. Marten - NWSB 014 2CO-Q42-01 - ~rqe¢onomic 'I'heot'f. & Policy - ll. Fried - HUMN 114 , EC0-051-01 -Environmental Economics- J, Kenney .. SSCI 012 EER-148-01·- Digital Circuits- J. Gajjar- BAIL 201 EGL-076-01 -Mode. m Am. erican Novel- F. Gado- HUMN 117 ' .- . ESC-0 13 - High :Level Lang Programming S~. 1 ~ N. Mazur - BUTR 204 Sec. 2 - N. Mazur- BUTR 204 ESC-018,01 - Intro To Digital Computers - C. Traver - BAH.. 102 ESC-020-01 -Mechanics ll- Y. Lee- BUTR 106 . . . . . _ ESG-030-01 - Mechanics Of Deformable Solids - D. Bunk - NWSE 22Z.. . . . .•... · · Esc:o33-o2 - Fluid Systems Analysis - T. Jewell ., BUTR. 300. ~ · HST-046-01 -Contemporary Europe,.. M. Walker- SSCI 010 PSC-0.72-01 - Envnlmnt, Energy & Amer Poltcs .. E. WOOdhouse - SSCI 105 PSC-077-01- Constitutional.Law- J. Laursen- HUMN 112 PSY-010·02 ·A First Course in Psychology- S. Benack- PYCH 102 PSY -024·02 - Social Psychology - D. Morier - PYCH 213 . PSY-031-01- Abnormal Psychology- G. Atlas .. PYCH 113 SOC-024-02 - Socjal Psychology .. D. Morier - PYCH 213 FRIDAY. MARCH 18- 2;00-4;00P.M ... CHM-012- Fundamental Chemistry ll sec. 1 - c. Scaife - BUTR 204 Sec. ~ - R. Schaeffer - BUTR 204 Sec. 3 - C. Weick - BUTR 204 MTH-028 - Probability Sec. 1 • T. Bick - BAIL 207 Sec. 2 - T. Bick - BAIL 207 THE FOLLQWING COQRSES HAVE COf4MONEXAMS WITH THE EyENING fiMSION: 'TIJ];SDA-Y. MARCH 15 - 4;30-6;30 P.M. CSC 135 ·Operating Systems- G. Williams- SSCI 104 THQRSDAY. MARCH 17 - 4:30 .. 6:30 P.M. CSC 140 - Theory of Computing - D. Hannay - HUMN 115 ' ~- 0 ~ ~ Sj ~ ln ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ loooo ~

\ Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Felm1ary 4, 1988 LETTERS New York Avenged Faculty Salary Scale Clarified To the Editor: As a native New Yorker, I f~el it is my duty to respond to Marjorie Hoffer's impassioned January 21 attack on my city. I must confess that my first in- clination was to apologize for the improprieties Ms. Hoffer suffered at the hands of eight million inconsiderate, resentful New Yorkers, so moved was 1 by her account of my hometown and the behavior of Us inhabitants. However, upon a second, more thorough examination ·of her hournalistic crucifixion, and upon the reclamation of my better judgment and pride in my city, I have decided to forego an apologetic tone in favor of a retaliatory, defensive one. First, I will examine Ms. Hoffer's fantastic notion (one that until her recent visit she still entertained) that the bums, vagrants, and other unsavories decorating Manhattan's streets were there t() provide comic relief, as it were, to the high society, silk-stocking class that dominates the city's population (a dream in itself). And here I was thinking all this time that they were just people without a place to live or food to eat. Silly me. You can imagine the shock, then, that Ms. Hoffer en- countered when the ·homeless shed their guises and exposed. her to the truth: that they are, in fact, exactly what they ap- pear to be. The audacity! How dare they destroy the picture- postcard images that had once been Marjorie Hoffer's vision of New York City. Not to mention ruin her whole weekend. Please try to understand, Ms. Hoffer, about the noose to which you seem to have been per- sonally subjected. Knowing, as you do, how we \thrive on the noise, the cars, the bonking and the fast pacl!,\ you can accept that we occasionally get carried away. I assure you, it was a lamentably misdirected cacaphOny, and we have since been directed to be more sen- sitive to your aural likes and dislikes. After condemning the city for the outrageous prices of its tuna-fish sandwiches, the author of \New York? No Way I\ takes the inevitable job at the collective characters of the city's denizens, referring, though not in these words, to their hurried, impatient and oblivious demeanor. Did it ever occur to you that maybe, just maybe, not every New Yorker comes complete with a working knowledge of every subway line? And that perhaps those nicely dressed. people whom you approached for directions were whizzing by not because of the contempt they develcped on seeing you approach them but because there was someplace in par- ticular whither they were whizzing? Hnun? . On then, finally, to the weekend's entertainment: a night at the movies. From the colorful descriptive detail Ms. Hoffer exhaustively supplied, I can asswne that the show in · question was a sold-out pern formance,. and therefore am not surprised that there were many people in attendance. The two facts share somewhat of a causal relationship, and yet our much maligned moviegoer considered this, too, a personal insult. In her last paragraph, Ms. Hoffer declares, \Give me • Schenectady.\ You don't have to twist my ann, it's yours. If New York is a City that \reeks of Sophistication,\ then Schenectady is one that just plain reeks. Adam Gahtan '91 WALKING ESCORT SERVICE A walking escort service will be provided from the library area (library, college center, class rooms) at 11 :00 pm Sunday to Thursday night: -All women wanting to be escorted back to their dorms should me~t inside the library between 1 0:50 pm to 11 :00 pm -Escorts will be given on request. -.The escorts will be waiting inside the library's front entrance. They wiil be wearing orange vests. Sponsored by the fraternities and the IFC To the Editor: l feel certain that all mem· bers of the faculty appreciate your continuing editorial support of efforts to .improve faculty salaries at Union. Your editorial of 28 January does, however, contain a number of errors which need to be corrected, in order that no one be misled. The Faculty Rev·iew Board )las the responsibility for recommending annual faculty salary and compensation in- creases to the President. Last year we recommended, and the President approved, a three- year plan for the imp11ovement of faculty salaries; this plan involves special allocations to faculty over and above an across-the-board ( \cost-of-li- ving'') increase each year. The first-year allocation, applied during the current 1987J\8 year, was $175,000, as you.re})l '. Our recommended allocatio., for next year, again reported correctly, is $210,000.; this amoWlt has been incorporated . irito the preliminary budget for 1988-89 app~.:oved .by the Board of Trustees last month. It is a stated policy of the FRB that each rank of the faculty will receive some portion of each special allocation. Of the $175,000 allocated for this year, . approximately 60 percent went to Assistant ProfesS!lrs, the rank on which first-year at- tention was focused; Associate Professors and full Professors received only small additional increments. According to the three-year plan, Associate and full Professors are due to receive a large proportion of the $210,000 allocated for next year, but Assistant Professors will also receive some additional increment. (In fact, the FRB has not yet made specific reconunendations as to how the total of $210,000 should be distributed among the various faculty ranks.) In discussing· matters of faculty salary, it is crucial to distinguish between salaries and total compensation, that is, salary plus an fringe benefits. (Fringe benefits for faculty at Union average 28 percent of salary.) The fundamental error in your editorial is that an the figilres you report as average salaries are in fact average compensation figures .for the academic year 1986·87. (Incidentally, there appears to be a transposition error in your statement about average. compensation of Associate ProfeSSors from 1985-86 to 1986- 87; the correct figures are The Faculty Review Board (FRB) ha$ formed an ad hoc Subcommittee on the-Evaluation of Teaching. The Subcommittee is charged to: . a. review the literatw'e on ways to evaluate teaching and make recommendations to FRB on useful ways to do that, b. examine our use of the college wide questionnaire for teaching evaluation {and how if affects teaching), and, c. if appropriate, mollify our current questionnaire or construct a new questionnaire (or questionnaires) that could be used for the evaluation of teaching. The Subcommittee membership is Prof. Hull (Chair), Dean Weiner, Prof. Stanhope, Prof. Hannay and Prof. Benjamin. The Subcommittee. wishes to in~ite memb.ers of the College community to submit comments on ways we could Improve teachmg evaluations and.the college .wide use of the end-of-term questionnaire. The submissions can be made to the Chru:r or to any member of the Subcommittee. Union College Speaker Forum Presents: SENATOR JOSE,P.H IlDEN, JR. Topic: The Arms Race Monday, Fe.ruary 8 8:00 PM Memorial Chapel TICketS Available at StUdent Center Box Office $3ot $2 With Union ID $45,200 to $46,300, no.t $42,QOO to $46,300.) Thus the dollar averages you report for Associate and full Pmfessors pmvide. a mstorted pietllre of faculty salaries in those ranks. Moreover, the ratillgs yo11 state relative to the .other 32 schools reflect our position with regard to total com,pensati()n pri()r to this year's special allocation of $175,000; in fact, since .. salary and compensation figures nationally are not pablished until the spring of each year, we can at this time only estimate our posiUon relative to these other schools for tbe current year. The FRB has of collrse made these estimates to the best of its ability, b11t wetend to focus on faculty salaries rather than on total com}Jensation. For. the record, the following are the average 'salaries of Union faculty by rank for the years in question: .Professor, $45,760 for 191W~7, $48;356 for 1987-88, 5.'7 uercent increase; ASsociat~ Professor;_ $35,336 for 1986-87, $36,9~2 for 1987-88, 4.5 perce11t inCl'ease'; Assistant Professor~ $26,519 for 1986-87, $29,349 for 1987-MI, 10.7 percent increase. For further clarification here is a table of our stllllding when our average salary by rank is compared with tlte otller 32 schools: Professor, 26oo33 for H!B6.;87, 29-33 for 1987-88 (estimated); Associate Professor, 21-33 for 1986-87, 24-33 f(Jr 1987-88 (estimated); Assistant Professor, 27-33 for 191J6~7, 19- 33 for 1987-88 (estimated). It is apparent from these tables that only tile salaries of Assistant Profe~sors have improved as a result of the first year of our three-year plan; the comparative stamling of our Associate and full Professors has probably declined this year. Thus, it is esJlecially ap- propriate to fix oW' attention oil the tipper ranks fol' next year. But our standing in all ranks relative to the comparison schools shows clearly why the improvement of .faculty salaries must be a high priority in Union's current and future budget ,planning. Predlcting the effects of a given allocation to salaries ()n our standi,ng in the liSt of 33 next year is a very difficult business; the FRB has spent many hours trying to do this, assuming various scenarios for both Union and the other 32 schools. We believe our standing will improve under the $210,000 allocation for 1988--89. But .it is almost certain that our full professors will not move into thetop half of the list of 32; even if the entire $210,000 wellt to the full profe~sors- and of course it will not, it is unlikely that such dramatic improvement would OCCUI\. Thanks for your continuing support and for this Qpportunity to clarify some of the matters relating to our current program to improve faculty salaries here at Union. As you point out, our strength and our improvement as an academic institution rests in large part on our capacity to attract and retain high quality faculty members. Respectfully yours, Jan K. Ludwig Professor of Philosophy Chair, Faculty Review Board EDITOR'S NOTE. In discussion wl.th Vice Presidents · Hauser and Maranvnle, the terms \salary\ and \com pensatlo n\ were i.nterchanged. The 1988-89 Preliminary Budget correctly Identifies the figures used last week as \compensation.\ Concordlensls regrets the error. CDC NEWS INTERVIEWING SKILLS WORKSHOP L.earn how to prepare for and present yourself effectively in an employment intervie\11/. CDC, Seminar Room, Tuesday, February 9 - 7:30pm. CHOOSING A MAJOR WORKSHOP Learn to assess y()ur interests, skills and values as well as identify· valuable resources that will assist you in choosing a major and future career. CDC, Seminar Room, Thursday, February II - 4:30pm. The fQllowing companies will have open sign-ups beginning February 9, 19880 . *Brewer & Lamont • CE for Assistant Project Engineer *Connecticut Dept. of Transportation - CE for Engineer intern *Con Tel - EC or IE for Associate Engineer *Goodyear -.Any major for retail. sales management '\KieWit Eastern · CE for entry level engineer positions \O'Brien & Ga:re · OE for' Design Engineer *OBG Labs - Chern istry majors for chemist positions *Sherwood C;apital - Any major for Registered Rep. position. •·singer/Kearfbot Division - EE major::o *Upjohrl ~ Biology and Chemistry majors for sales position *Peace Corp - Any major · *Sterling-Winthrop - Chemistry majors for Ch&mist positions *Thomas J. Upton - Any major for sales position *Geary Corp-.Any major with ability to program~ There will be a general info session of 2/16/88. Open sign-ups on 219/88. •Mitre will be returning to campus on 2/26l88 to interview CS majors. Ope11 sign-ups start 219/68. Resumes and transcripts required. *New York University School of. Public Administration will be on campus on 3/2188. Anyone interested should sign up in th~ CDC. '

CONCORDlENSlS, Febrll.tJry 4, 19S8 Ifa2e 15 \ LETTERS AND COMMENTARIES Principles ,of Freedom Exclude Expurgation Former Concordiensis Editor Advocates Autonomy of Press To the Editor: Censorship. The interests of the state are the interests of the people. F~eedpm of assembly. Freedom of speech. Freedom of expression. Which of these do not belong? C~nsorship is only a tool, a means to an end, but it is a tool which. i~ opposed to all of the principles Which need to thrive if. a true democracy is to sur .. vtve. There are few in America who wotild argue that to con- done censorship could even- tually lead to severe tests of democracy. ijow can we guarantee ,an of the rights that we like to say are necessary for the pursuit of happiness it somebody, somewhere, Ms the powerto say, \Well that really isn't the dght thtng to say- do· see, because it offends· me ..• \ It seems harmless enough on the surface, pornography IS of- fensive to many, many people, but on a deeper level it opens wide a Pandl)ra:'s box. Who are we goin·g to entrust with this power of moral-building?; this power of idea control? .•. Do we give it. to a born-again Christian preacher., a Jewish Rabbi, the Pope, a Buddhist monk, . the Dal . ·Lam ?'?? ·D · . 't a1 . a. .. .•• o we g1ve 1 to . the Grand Wizard of the KKK? On that last suggestion, thank G-d, we'd have near unanimous objections, but what of the other options? Power corrupts lllld absolute power corrupts alllollltely, and cen· sorship IS j!IISt such !ill absolute power. 01:1r- system works because all ~f jts. members are guarPQteed '!I woice, whether it is listened tm ()r .not, and that voice also tnllnifests itself in the free market ~:ystem. We have the freedom of choice to buy :or not buy vir111a]ly any. products we wish. 'lbe government already h~s the power to declare whmteJJer ;it so desires as illegal,. :Ito we now really want to .give :tllem the right to also declal\'e 'iiNhat we can or cannot thhk'? There are those who will s11y\ \Don't worry about it, w&'I~e a democracy, we're .A:medca (fanfare 1 . ) Yl' pease ... The regime of Adolph Hitler came to .po1Ner initially through free electi()nE in a democracy ~ alb~it n«<t a democracy Identical to ollrS) and he ·got there by sa.ying the ''right\ thing at the 1 \right\ time to the \Right'' peoplte... Hardly what we would eaJl a Noble CaJJSe! Th~ PQint ~. that censorship is an mstrume!lt()f repre~ion and control in Its t~11e and \purest.\ form. No IP!Itter what \noble\ purpose it is applied tQ, it will eventually ()()JTIIpt that which it operates llf.IOil! This may seem like an und11e amount of con- cern, after- an, what's 2,000. people in a :i!mall Northeast liberal arts .coDege got do do Intl!rnational PQlitics Commenttli'J' with, a, threat to democracy? We hav& got everything to do with it. WE are this countr,y. Our To the Editor: actioms as an aggregate detemrlne the \mood\ of the While the recent Supreme coWLtry, and it's these \moods'' . Court decision, Hazelwood that our duly elect,d School DiStrict v. K\lhlmeiet, representatives (supposedly) No. 86-836 is des·fg,ned to respo:Qd to. Stoppin:g por• • broaden the :power of public nogvaphy may be a noble end, schools in limiting the but before we rush blindly ,down dissemination •of infonnation by into· the abyss of high school newspapers, the totalitarianism, STOP! and logic used by the high court consitler the e(fects of decisb;ms could easily be applied to Uke this on our ~ystem ill the newspapers on .private college long run. Democracy is so campuses th~oughout the diffi~ult to preserve a!ld the · United States. .path of least resistance has alw~ys been towards cen- ConcQrdieusls bas had a long t r a. 1 i z a t i o n a n d · and well documented history of authoritarianism. Once we start disseminating · information to doWJI that path, the momentum the Union campus that is on- may prove too great tOo over- tainted, and is in no way af. come. fected by the· college ad- ''Neither blindness nor ministration. Prof. Huntley in · the preface to his book entitled ignorance corrupts people and · \Thirty years in the Life of a . governments. They soon realize College\ states: \In the ac-- where the path they 'have taken count which follows, the reader is leading them. But there is an . may be impressed, as 1 was at impulse within them, favored how often the editorials and by their natures and reinforced letters to the editor urged by tlteir habits, which they do changes in college policies and not l1esist; it continues to propel procedures that were later to be them forward as long as they adopted. Sometimes it was as have a remnant of stre11gth. He much as a decade before the who overcomes himself is college acted in the directions divine. Most see their ruin ·urged by CollcGrdy.\ More beforetheir eyes, but they go on recently, the Morris ad- iritiJit.\ .Leopoldv<JraRanke ministration has given 100 Craig W. Rideout , 88 . .percent unqualified support to free speech by the college paper. As a recent editor in chief, I remember President Morris commenting after a Byron R. White stated that the court would approve. any of- ficial censorship of school new~papers that could be related to ''legitimate ~dagogical concerns.\ Would ConcCJrdieusis editors be .happy to have to censor everything that did not correspond with what was being taught .in the classtoom? Moreover, he wrote: \A school must also retain the authority to refuse to sponsor student spee(!h that might reasonably be perceived to advocate drug or alcohol abuse, irrespmsible sex or conduct otherWise inconsistent with the shared values of a ciVilized social order.\ Certainly one would not respect Concordlensis for suggesting that students abuse drugs or alcohol, but would it have been so out of touch for an editor in the late 1960's or early 1970's to ad· vocate the legalization of marijuana? Is homosexual behavior considered in- consistent with \the shared · values of a civilized social or- der?\ These \shared\ assumptions that lead to cen- sorship destroys the living dimension of a .school newspaper: its ability to ap- proaeh the margin to forge new ideas and trends throughollt the campus. Tell It Like It .Is rather unfavorable review of administration actions, that he would do nothing to limit the freedom of students to print what they wanted. Con- cordlensls is published by the Student Forum, as represen- tative of the student body. In conclusion, it is necessary for Co11cordiensis to remain separate and uncensored by the college administration. An editor of the paper should never be compensated (either monetarily or by academic credit) by the academic ad-- ministration for fear that leverage could affect the words of the printed page. In short, freedom ·Of the press must be By ROB WAXMAN It is very distressing wat- ching the news and seeing its portrayal of events in Israel. Television has had a field day for the past two months in focusing in on the violence in GazaandtheWest Bank. This is because television laves action whether it be civil violence or sports. However, sports and civil violence are two very different thing!i; while select highlights can make up the truth in sporting events it does not work the same way in the West Bank and Gaza riots. Television has distorted the events occuring in Israel by focusing on the images of the violence rather than the background and history behind it. The media .show Israel soldiers shooting and swinging clubs at rioters be·cause that is what attractS\ audiences. These images startle the viewers. Some go even further by drawing parallels between Israel's policies With those of South Africa. · In addition, television con- tinually presents the events from the perspective 'of the Palestinians. TheY give graphic descriptions and pictures of Arabs llefmg taunted and beaten. HI)\'Vever, they never give the poerspective of the Israelis. Wblyi Maybe because it involv~s t!!lo much history and analysis. ISI'!Iel was forced to occupy the \l'~st Bank and Gaza as a result ~f tile Six Day War in which her .Al'ab neighbors tried to wipe ·hEl\ off the map. Meanwhile Arab and Palestinim lEaders refuse to negotiate an.d they dream about \sweeping ille . Jews into the sea.\ Isr~el c~nnot negotiate on those kind of.terms. Israel must come do'Wil. h~rd on the-rioters because tile~ l'epresent a direct security tmeat to her existence. Therefore 1he news media does not. C::l)nvey the entire situation i'ibeJJ it suggests that Isreael sll.omlci compromise or - relinquish · -control of the territories dlle to its harsh . treatm'ent mf the Palestinians. Israel clillrlOit relinquish the territories; because not only wo11ld theyi:le!a launch point for attacks into Israel but it would also dest11b-ilize the whole region. Isra>eL does not want to, but is colllJlelledto rule overthe Palestiniams because of the contin~ed illtransigence of the Many thanks to the following: for making Winteriest '88 a succe.ss: Concert Committee Film Committee Sociai·Aiternatives Social Committee IFC Pan hellenic A lot of. planning, advertising; caring, tmcl1ogetherness Is What It .Is all about. Five these groups a 11andand let's cootltme the gOOd work. LMarra Arab leaders. Israel cannot seem to avoid criticism no matter what it does. What is Israel expected to do In response to these riots? First world pressure said they could, only use non-lethal means to disperse the riots. Now they are ~ondemned for beating Arab rioters. As Defense Minister Yitzhak RabiiJ. said, \They will always complain unless Israel speaks to tlie demonstrators nicely over a cup of coffee.\ Israel cannot sit back and allow the the Arabs to throw rocks, assalllt soldiers, halt com- mereial life and destroy property. In contrast, the news media never mentions the fact that Israethas tried to improve Arab domestic life. Palestinians have mu.cb better living conditions, edllcation and income now t~an tlley ever had under Jordanian rule. Th.e media should avoid this irrEsponsible coverage of events because they promote bitterness towards Isra.el and suggest that there are simple sollltions to a very .difficult and connplex problem. However, the editors of the newspaper (present and future) must always be wary of trends at the college as well as nation· . wide. Writing for the majority in the court decision, Justice . revered and maintained by the Union College newspaper. Sincerely yours, Jay M. Grossman '87 Wrong to Restrict Indiyidual Choice To the Editor: A few weeks ago there was an editorial about the Supreme Court decisiCln which allow schools to censor their school newspaper. You asked if we, the Union College community, would fall under the scrutiny of this decision. While thiS remains to be seen, we are already being censored. 'I'hiS is evident in the fact that the school is considering the notion to cancel the scheduled showing of a pornographic movie. The views of a small group of students, Students Against Pornography (S.AP), caused the cancellation, thl!S forcing their views on us. What is next for this group? The books we read? Should we be allowed to read such books as ParadiSe Lost by John Milton? In this poem, Milton depicts Eve, the first woman, as a Inindless person put in Eden only to satisfy Adam's sexual desires. Isn't this what SAP cited as the reason that the pornography movie should not be shown. Shouldn't this book be banned? According to the standards set forth by SAP it should. . My point is this: ·In a society whose basis is inherent in the belief of freedom of choice, shouldn't we be aUowed to choose what we watch and don't watch? Before the movie was cancelled, everyone had the choice to go to the movie or~ not. No one was forcing the mem- bers of SAP, or anyone else for that matter, to see the movie. But now if it is cancelled, the rest Clf us are being forced not to watch the movie. Is this cen- sorship? You be the judge. Andrew Reiken '89 WINTERFEST ·SNOW SCULPTURE WINNERS FIRST PLAC'E- Phi· Delta Theta (Couch Potato) Sigma Chi (Dragon) SECOND PLACE- Chi Psi (Vodka Bottle) SPONSORED BY THE IFC

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1,88 ByKATIEBOD The BoDeans will be at Union on Wed., Feb. 1 0 piece mov;ed farther from ballet. Its strong, stri~ing position and . acrobatic feats were fantastically modern. Laurie Anderson's music furthered the idea of modern. The third act was WRUC Record Review and ·Concert f!pdate: Friday night I ~oent to Proctors' Theatre aml. saw the Alvin Ailey dance ~Company perform. Trying to write a review of this pel;'for~n~.ance is like trying to describe a :favorite painting. The Ch()reo~r:aphers' (Alvin Ailey, Ralph. Vaughan Williams, Elise Momte, and Ulysses Dove) exploitation of the twnety-nine <Lancers' physical p.erfection was: framed by brilliant costumes. llighting, and set. Instead of alienlitiillg the audience, as some modern dance companies <lo with shocking, unconventional movement Alvin Ailey's American Dance The~er began the performance wiitll ballet- choroogTaphed by the com· pany' s. founder Alvin Ailey, Titled ''Cavema Magica\ the program states. ''This ballet is dedicatedto tP.e memory of Ron Bundt\ and is \An Ailey love rituaL that focuses on a high priestess who instructs two initiates in this amorous art.\ The music by Andreas Vollenweider, the earth tones of the costwnes and set .. promoted ·an andent middle eastern The BoDeans Indian feeling. The principal dancers were strilting·-the female soloist dressed in By DANA HAGSTROM I like an albwn that answers its own question. Slash recor- ding artists the BuDeans open \ ••• if you are a fan of diversity, the11 the BoDeans are a dream come true. their newest alblliil with the question \Ain't this what dreams are made of?\ and by the albwn's conclusion I was convinced th~t if you are a fan of diversity then the BoDeans are a dream come true. Tbe variety of strengths exhibited on \Outside Looking In\ makes it difficult to pigeonhole the band. The first· sound I thought to associate them with was R.E.M., another band with its roots in the down to earth legacy of American rock and roll. But the music of the BoDeans is less abstract- you get what you'd expect from a band that hails from Wisconsin: direct, down to earth music with a recurring love, or lost love, theme. ARTS BRIEFS CONCERT AT UNION Wednesday, Feb. 10 at 8 pm, the BoDeans will be performing in Memorial Chapel. Tickets are on sale at the Information Booth for $5. For more info call370- 6351. WRITER-IN-RESIDENCE William Hathaway, former creative writing director at Union. will conduct free weekly writing classes in poetry and fiction. Classes will begin Tues. Mar. 8 at 7 pm at the Courthouse Gallery in Lake George. If you are interested, call668-2616 to register. BENEFIT CABARET \All That Jazz\ will be performed at the Eba Theater in Albany, Sat. Mat. 12 at 8 pm. Proceeds go to benefit the theater. For info call465-9916. YOUTH CONCERT Sun., Mar. 6 at Memorial Chapel, The Octive Singers, Chamber Singers, and Youth Chorus will perform at 3 pm. This is their second joint concert at Union. Tickets can be purchased at the door: $8 for adults, $5 for students. For more info call381-9444. PROCTORS \Big River\ wiU be performed at Proctors Theater Feb. 11-14. Ticket prices range from $25 to $12. For general information call382-1083. For ticket info call346-6204. Cover Contest The IDOL is having a cover contest! send two-color (black & white, red & white, etc.) art work to box 1282 on 8x11 paper .. Questions? call Joy at 372-0890. $25 PRIZE TO WINNER I Deadline-Feb. 22nd. Poetrey & short stories deadline is also Feb. 22nd- send to box #1282 The BoDeans first albwn, '; windily entitled \Love and · Hope and Sex and Dreams,\ . was a cult favorite on campus, · · but their new release shows the : band in a new and I think more . interesting light. MTV can l\ant • about the cUI\rent single \It's : . Only Love,\ but they'll never; catch the James Brownian~ : whiskey soaked soul of \Don't Be Lonely,\ which should suit the underground just fine. The BoDeans will be playing at Union's Memorial Chapel on Wednesday, February 10~ Opening for them will be campus band The Other Side. For $5, you can't go wrong. Winners of the Panhellenic Cabaret Contest: First The Jonses Second Dave Provost and Jeff Winters Third Becky Thayer Thank You to .all who came, the proceeds are being given to the Schenectady Rape Crisis Center UNION LAMPOON Next Meeting Monday, Feb. 8th 7:00 3rd Floor College Center BRING IDEAS! Carl Bailey performs litllyses' Doves \Bad Blood\ like pieces titled c''lbe Lark Ascending.\ The alldience was captivated by tltis fil\st movement. The soft lighting and costumes combined with the classical llliLSic met audience expectatioms of dance and yet promised ID~Jre, it was beyond ballet. Asidle from the obnoxious crinldHng of cellophane (some~me eating candy behind me) tllere were few distractions. HoV~Vever, one cowdnofhelp but wisll for a live orchestra as thoe stereo's distortion was noticeable. Also the use of a spot~llt seemed intrusive and turn~d out to be the only flaw of 311. otherwise l;leautitully light delli;gn. The first act en.ded with a stunning duet by Carl Bailey, and Deborah MaJllling. The skintone costumes; gave the illusion that the da!lcers were naked allowing total attention on these two perf~ly defined muscular bodies. The dance was .playful, innocemt, sincere, erotic, and loving . \It's like perfect sex,'' llll.Y friend whispel\ed.- The second act was Dove's 1986 . piece \Bad Bl11od.\ This flowing white gown stood out for her absolute grace and majestic presence. The' couple of this 'ballet'. was also exceptional often performing the same combinations as the rest of the ensemble only distinguishmg themselves witb a pause, a delay so their movements ex- tended above the rest. Carol Vollet Garner's costumes allowed the movements of the dancers to paint images for the audience. A unique touch was the pendant worn by the pJ;in- cipal male, .invisible until light hit it when its brilliance suggested diamonds. The whole performance was incredible. Bodies logi!!ally shotlldn't be able to move like that but -they did and so beautifully too. \What you find · in tbe best videos perfomed live\ was one comment I made to my friend but it doesn't .say enough, nothing can. Like a favorite painting to understand the grace, physical prowess, inno·V ati ve ch{) reo graph:v, brilliant lighting, and costwnes all I can say is go see the Alyi.n,.. Ailey American Dance Theater yourself. THUR:SDA Y FEB. 4 ~ ·~~) . . '~ ~ We can • . • l' .. , Make You Laugh! c!c If we can't .•• we'll .give you $25.00 ( ~ :YES! I'll be a contestant! ...~ NAME: ~ 'I J ; ,J

CONCORDlENS\lS Februt~.ry ·4, 1988 Page 17 at Proctors': The Barber of Sevitl:-e By CAROLYNOUNN This past Monday evening Proctor's hosted the prestigious New Y()rk City Opera National Compally for a performance of the \~B~rber of Seville,\ the comic opera by Gioacchine Rossini. Their performance here in ~chenectady is just one along a nation-wide six-week tour. . \The Barber,\ an opera in three acts, was superbly executed dramatically as well as musi«!ally .. The stage set was colorfully adorned in .pastel shj;l.des,. contrasted by the bold, but bea:utiful costumes ·of the characters. 'l'he performances of Ricbatd Byrne (Figaro)., Stella Zimbalis (Rosina) and Robert _ Swensen (Count Almavi\7a), were particularly noteworthy, as they excellently portrayetl Rossini's engaging characters. Briefly, the .story is that of a The Mountebanks will be presentiag \Shades of Grey,\ an original production designed to deal with socially relevant problems facing the students of Union. The subjects to be ad- dress,.ed include, W.scr.iminatio~. . AIDS, social-fraternat life, substan:ee abuse, financial witty jack-of-the-trades barber {F'igaro)who succeeds in thwarting the plans of old Dr. Bartol.:>~ and through his clever intrig1,1e~, brings about the lliarr:iage of the lovers Rosina and Allnaviva,. although not witha11t hUlll()rous con- sequence, .often at the expense of &a.rblo, who is Rosina's stod~r IJldguardian. FolloVVin:g the celebrated overtue~ the .fil'st act was off to a ca:p.iivating start with the sere11ades of Count A:lmaviva, the eblllli.ent duet of F~igaro and Al.mllv-iva, and Figaro's famous \Larg«l al FaebtUll}\ (Make way f()r the 'factotum}; his . charming. self-indUlgent aria. The last two acts were equally entei1aill:illg, highlighted by Rosina's defiant aria, Dr. Bartol.:>'s bombasts, the drarilatie cuhnination of the secoJ][I act, . and the. intense musi()al accompaniment to the jubilant fill~~ o.f the opera. . differen.~es, and date rape. The topic~ will be presEnted through shoit vignettes that demon- strate tl!e related miscon- cepti~ms and ignorances. The sketehes will be followed hy an op~n · dis<!ussion : lead• by a -· faculiy- :member of the PsycllolCJgydepartment. The NYC Nathnal Opera Co. employed ~supertitling' for their prodllcticm of Ros~ini's comic masterJliEce. Supertitles are sirnul~neollS visual translations proje~ted onto a small narrot.V screen suspended above the stage. 1hey succeed in clarifying the action on stage while preserv1ng the integrity of - the '()riginal language -libretto~ Altho11gh some serious opera-goers: may find the supertitles irritating and in- trusive, t.bis tecllnique may The production dates are scheduled for Febmary 8, 9, 10, and 11th. \Shac:les of Grey\ will be staged in Fox:, P()tter House, and Davids()Jl IDun~es and the College Cemter Cabaret respectively. All-shows begin at 7:30PM. Pleas1! come to watch listen, and shal\e your views. ' THE DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH invit~ tlu submission of entries in the following writing competitions. Deadline for submtiss1on is WEDNESDAY. MA.RCH :}0; 088 (first week of spring tem.) 1. THE ALLEN ESSAY PRIZE: aw-;arded oo·a senicr in any department for a non-fiction essay. 2. . ACADEMY OF AMERICAN POETS PRlZE: an. anuual award, spollsored by the Acade!Dy. forthe best poem by a Union undergraduate. 3. THE SHOCK:ET PRIZE IN ~.A 1'IVE WRITING: for excellence in poetry, fictiorr,,()r infomal (i.e., non- academic) essay. · . 4. THE VAN ORDENPRlZE: for.fl'e.slmrn (any deparlment) excelling in English composition. 5. THE '{UDIS PRIZE: for prose ficti()!Il' Fuller atu1ouncements; including directions for :smbmission, will be posted on campus. Students with.questiom should visit Professor Nelson in Humanities 210, or call hiiil.at 6207. . ~~~---------------------------- ~ {p.e s'Q SATURDAY. F€bruao/ <J, 1988 at 8 PM t\.1-,e. CO.? THE SCHENECTADY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA AT PROCTOR'S SCHENECTADY PROGRAM Nick:. ~rignola \Tht> master sox blaster redlfy has no peers:· Ftrebtrd SUJte igor Stravinsky Syraphony No. 4 Henry Cowell lndi•>dUal ucl>e1s on Idle dl Prcx:lo.r; Bux Oflice C1l0 Ouilets. Drome Sound <1nd dll oubutl>un Cdtl l:111:1()1Jil~ btcincheo. Tocl>ets - ~Q 00 tor <idLJh> ~4 oo lnr qudel11< ft~r ~r,Up wes please call :n2 QSOO Smart Dress Required ARTS & FILMS serve to make foreign opera less intiniidating and more inviting to potential opera~ goers. Over a hundred years since its original debut, Rossini's comic work continues to attract and amuse audiences with its various colorful characters and clever plot. Unfortunately, this production visited Schenectady for one night only. IDOL TALK Idol Talk is a weekly forum for Union College's community of creative writers. Submissions from all writers are welcome, please contact Suzanne 386-4424 if you would like to see your work pulblished in the Concordensis. And, watch the Idol Talk for announcements about all club activities. Important dates coming up include: Februay 22-deadline for submissions for the spring edition of the Idol magazine, Union's annual literary magazine. Submissions should be addressed to Box 1282. The Idol is also sponsoring a reading .by student poets February 10, 8:00 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge. Hostage His fingers drummed the concrete floor; Until he·felt their weight and stopped. As months before he had abandoned push-ups, conjugating french and latin verbs, and hope. · His muscles slack, hair and beard knotted, his temples numb where the gun presses so often, Sometimes the trigger pulled. Now he finds the hollow click far from reassuring. Uncertain whether day or night treads on outside he lies down out of habit. Last night· was it last night? He dreamt his execution and when he woke wondered if it was a nightmare or not. Katie Boyd Friday, Feb. 5, 1988 Upperclassman Dining Hall at the College Center, 8:00 p.mQ ...

Page 18 CONCORDIENSfS, Febr~tary 4, 1988 ARTS & FILMS Panhellenic./IFC Cabare.t Is a Winner By ELIZABETH BERLINER In the tradition of great night- time entertainment, a special Cabaret sponsored by the Panhellenic and Interfraternity Councils took place on Thur- sday, January 28. All proceeds went to benefit the Rape Crisis Center of Schenectady. Rumors of nearly twenty-five acts were quickly dismissed when it was announced that, after a barrage of last minute :ancellations, five acts were left to perform. But these five talented performances did not disappoint. Freshmen and first-time Cabaret performers Jocelyn Singer and Meg' Rosenberg opened with a collection of excellent duets, including \Everyday\ and \the Circle· Song.\ Veteran Becky Thayer accompanied them on the guitar, and then continued on to do several solo performances, and a rendition of Wham's \Careless Whisper\ with Jen Lyon on the piano. Becky ultimately received third place: $15 cash and 2 Proctor's tickets. Picking up the pace a little, another long-time Cabaret performer, Dave Provost, was RUC THE NEW 8.97 Smoke Damage Clearance Edition- these slabs are so hot, it took 5 Schenectaland fire trucks two times to cool them down. Posjtjon Band 1 Robyn Hitchcock 2 TheNils 3 House of Freaks 4 Sinead O'Connor 5 Camper Van Beethoven 6 Scruffy the Cat 7 Public Image Limited 8 The Contras 8.97 Beatnik Beatch NEW ADDS Album \Balloon Man\ The Nils Monkey on a Chain Gang The Lion & The Cobra Vampire Can Mating Oven Boom Boom Boom Bingo Happy? Ciphers in the Snow At the Zula Pool A&M Rock Hotel Rhino Chrysalis Pitch-A- Tent Relativity Virgin Whinier Industrial It's Raining, Robyn Hitchcock (LP), Mission of Burma, Pogues. Jazz Butcher, Pato Banton, Wild Seeds, Jello Biafra, Red Lorry Yell ow lorry, Secret Service. ADYENTURE PICKS It's Raining, Beatnik Beatch, House of Freaks, Jonathan Richman · PROGRAMMING NOTES Trivia is the Word • TIME: 8:00 p.m. Jan. 14, 21, 28 PLACE: 89.7 FM MOTION: GET YOUR TEAMS READY \IT'S GOT GROOVE, IT'S GOT FEELING.\ joined by Jeff Winter in playing several guitar classics for over · 30 minutes. They finished off · with an· excellent performance of \Ashes Ashes\ by the Grateful Dead. They won second place and walked away with $25 cas~ and dinner for two at The Manhattan Exchange. Andy GoJWales impulsively volunteered to perform and played two piano pieces, one of . -which was an original com- position. Finally, a band named the 'Joneses\ stepped on stage. Playing a variety of music, including Steve Miller and Jimi THE COLONIAL PETAL \Lift S11meone's Spirits . with BALLOONS for an occasions $2 9 e~ Downtown Schenectady • Canal Square •377-6648 So you think you)e funny!!?? Audition for Eugene O'Neil's 'ALL GOD'S~HILLUN GOT WIN,GS\ ••. Here's your chance to prove it! In the Court Gestures a Comedy/lmprov group. Auditions This Sunday Feb. 7th Time: 7:30 pm Place: HU 019 Free Pretzels .NRITING CENT / THE WRITING . R ,.. THE WRIT .. ER •• THf -fNTER ;~ 11.n., .(JTING CENTER u TI-l. HE WRITING CENTER •• ~ u THE WRITING CENTEF :NTER •• THE WRITING Cf \~NTER u THE WRITir' •G CENTER .. THY ·~ t:ENT§Y\'\ A BLAS/Mountebank production will begin on Feb. 15. For more info. contact Michelle Maratto at x4209 Hendri!C, tlley swept the audie11ce literally off of their feet. A small crpwd gathered to the fmnt left and formed what the lead singer .referred to as \Soul 1'rain.\ They~ were \getting down\ for well over 45 minates, and even after the awards were announced, the band contnued to. play to a welcoming crowd.'They earned first place: $50 cash and $40 worth of bookstore credit. O.I:'Iginal setting. The modern College center atrium seems to detract from the overall feeling of the show and the enjoyment of Hs traditional performances. Many were also disgruntled at a Man:y commented on the appr<lpriate atmosphere that Old Chapel lent to a show such as Cabaret and su,pported' returning the weekly show to its . large section of the audience that seemed to lack respect for the perfol'Iilers, reflected in the loud chatter and laughter that emanated from the side of the ro~m and · disturbed the audience and performers as well. Otherwise, the show pr()ved to be a relaxing and el1]Qybable evening for all in- vol-ved. s THEBELIEVERS Feb. 5-7 ·.'Fri.- Sun. 7, 9, 11 Martin Sheen The mo•st violent\ ancf graphic occult thriller since THE EXORCIST,· delves into the bizarre rituals, unearthly j)OWers and Afr:ican rriysticism. MaHin Sheen stars as a psychologist wl'lose treatment of a disturbed polic::~ officer leads him to the darkest corners of East Harlem's slum. ther~. he uncovers deadly secrets that draw him into the horrifying world of THE BELIEVERS. ALLDF ME Feb. 10 Wed. 7, 9, 11 Steve:Martin and Lily Tomlin Edwina Cutwater (Lily Tomlin) is dying and wants her soul transferred into tile body of a healthy young woman. But things go awry when Edwina winds up occupying half of her reluctant lawyer's (Steve Martin) body. Martin tries to straighten everything <OUt before Tomlin ruins his life comploetely. , All showings at thoe College C~nt~n Aud. · All tickets are $1.. No food or bever~ge allowed. Crossgates Mall Cinema Fri. & Sat. ONLY 1 Fatal Attraction 1:35, 4:3(), 7:30, 10:20 (not Sat. nite) 12:35 Sneoak Pre: Shoot to Kill 9:40 (Sat. nite only) 2 Wall Street 3 For Keeps 12:15, 3:35, S:45, 9:4.0 1:30,4:25, 7::25, 10:15 4 l'he Last Emperor 12:10,3:25,6:40, 10:00 5 fvloonstruck 1:45, 4:35, 7:15, 9:45 6 lilroadcast News 12:40, 3:4~, 7:00, 10:05 7 l'he Serpent & lhe Rainbow 2:05, 4:45, 7:40, 10:25 8 l'hree Men & a Baby 1 :05, 3:50, 6:35, 9:10 9 :She's having a Baby 12:50, 4:00,6:50, 9:25 10 Good Morning Vietnam 11 :COuch Trip 11:10 12 Throw fv'l$nma From the Train Eddie Murphy RAW 12:25, 3:20,6:25,9:35 12:35, 3:40,6:15 8:55 12:15 12:25 11:55 12;30 12:30 11:25 11:50 12:05 12:30, 3:10, 6:20, 9:00 ' 11:05 Casteu,o·s Resta,urant Eat in or take out lOo/o discount with Union College I. D. THE BEST IN ITAUTAN & GREEK FOOD Pizza, Calzones, Pasta, Veal Souvlaki, Gyros, Wine and Beer Veal Parmesan with spagh&tti and sdlad Baked lasagna with cheese and salad $8.50 $4.95 Casteno·s Pizza & Restaura,nt 1487 State St .. , Schenectady *Will Deliver 374·0581

Page 18 t:ONCORDIENSJS, February 4, 1988 Panhellenic/IFC Cabaret Is 3 Winner By ELIZABETH BERLINER Fre$hmen and first•:ticrJle joined by Jeff Winter.in playing- Hendrbt, . they swept the Cabaret perf()trners Joeel:rn several guitar <;lassies for over audience literally off of .their o.l\iginal settiog. The modern . College center atrium seems to detract from the overall feeling of the show and the enjoyment ofits traditional performances. Many were also disgruntled at a In the tradition of great night· Singer and Meg Rose1tb1:1rg · 30 minutes. They .finished off · feet. A small cr!)wd gathered to time entertainment, a special opened with a collectio11 l()f with an· excellent nerformance the front left and formed 'what Cabaret spons()red by the ·excellent dllets. incllld:ill.g of ''Ashes, Ashes\ by the the lead singer referred to as Panhellenic and Interfraternity ''Everyday\ and \the Cir'Cle · Grateful Dead. 'I'hey won \Soul Train.\ They~ were Councils took pla<!e on Thur- Song.\ Veteran Becky Tlla:Yer secondplace and walked away •·•getting down\ for well ovet 45 sday, January 21l. All proceeds accompanied them on the wit~ $25' cash and dinner for two minutes, and even after tne .large section of the audience that seemed to lack respect for the performers, reflected in the loud chatter and laughter that emanated from the side of the room and disturbed' the audience and performers as well. Otherwise, the show proved to be a relaxing and enjoybable' evening for aU in- volved. went to benefit the Ra.pe Crisis guitar., and tb.en continued onto at 'l'he Manhattan Exchange. awards were anno.u11ced, the Center of Scheneetady. do several solo performailces, Andy Gonzales impulsively band contnued to play to a Rumors of ne~rly twenty-five and a rendition of Wh-am's volunteered to perform. and welcoming crowd'.'They eamed acts were quickly dismissed ''Careless Whisper\ with. Jen played two piano pii:!ces, one of first place: . $50 cash and $40 when it was altll()unced that;. Lyon ()D the piano. ReiCky which was an otiginal com- worthofbookstore credit. after a barrage ()f last minute ultimatelyreceivedthirdpJ&ce: position, Many commented on the :ancellations, :five acts were $15 cash and 2Proctor'.s ticltets. Finally, a band named the appropriate atmosphere that left to perform. But these five Picki11g up the pace a llittle, 'Joneses\ stepped on .stage. Qld Chapel lent to a show such talented perfonnances did not another long-time Ca~~:u:·et Playing · a variety of music, as Cabaret and supported disappoint. perfon:n.er, Dave Provost,. w.r;as including Steve Miller and Jimi returning tne weekly show to its ,_....-----....--;..._----- .............. _,__-.:... .......... ---~~~=-==-=~=--o~· · N~ .. _\\\:C::-!A~M::P::oU:-::· S~· -::\:'::~::'::\1 RUC THE NEW 8.9'7 ·smoke Damage Clearance Edition- these slabs are so hot, it took 5 Schenectalan~ fire trucks two times to . ' · cool th.emd()wn. Position llaqd·_ 1 Robyn Hitchcock 2 TheNils 3 Howe of Freaks · 4 Sinead (}'Connor 5 Camper Van Beethoven 6 Scruffy the Cat 7 Public: Image Limited 8 TheC<>ntras 8.97 Beataik Beatch NEW AD.DS Album \Balloon Man\ TheN'ds' Monkey on~· Chain. Gang The Lion & The Cobra Vampire Can Mating Oven Boom Bocm Boom Bingo Happy? Ciphers in the Snow At the Zu1a Pool .A kM ·· Rock H«el Rruno Ctirysalis · Pitcb-A..·Te:nt Rcliilti<vity • \ilgin. mtnier Jndmstrlal It's Raining, Robyn }Iitchcock (LP), Mission ()f Burma. P()gaes~ Jazz Butcher, Pato Banton, Wild Seeds~ Jello Biafra, Red ~rry Yellow lorry) Secret Service. ADYENTIJS.E PICKS It's Raining, Beatnik Beatch, House of Freaks. Jonlltllan Richman . PROGRAMMING NOTES Trivia is the W(:)rd - TIME: 8:00p.m. Jan~ 14, 21, 28 PLACE: 89.7 FM MOTION: GET YOUR TEAMS READY \IT'S GOT GROOVE, IT'S GOT FEELING.\ TBECOLONIAL PETAL \Lift Someone's Spirits . witb BALLOONS fOI' an occasions $2 9 e~ llDWlltOWII Schenectady· Canal Square '377-6648 So you think you~ funny!!?? Audition for Eugene O'Neil's 'ALL GO·D'S{;HILLU'N GOT WINGS\ ••• Here's your chance to \tl ,prove 1. . In the Court Gestures a Comedy!lmprov group. Audition~ This Sunday Feb. 7th lime: 7;30 pm Place: HU 019 Free Pretzels JJRIT1NG CENT . / THE WRITING· .... R •• THE WRIT •ER •• THI: .-eN\rER ;;. ~-tt., ..<ITING <ENTER •• Th. HE WiU:tii.JG CENTER •• · ~ •• THE WRITING CENTEF :NTER • • THE WRITING Ci \~NTER •• THE WRrrti •G CE:MTER • • n-iy ·--: CENT§f/ A BLAS/Mo untebank production will begin an Feb. 15. For more info. contact Michelle M.aratto at x4209 THE BEliEV~RS Feb. 5-'l - 'Fri .. - .S.un. 7, ·g, 11 Martin Sheen The nio'st violent' ancr graphic occ!Jitlhriller sinc.e THE EXORCIST, - delves .into the bizarre rituals, unearthly powers and .African iriysticism. Martin Sheen s~rs as a psychologist whose trea1ment of a disturbed police officer lead$ him to the, darkest corners df East,. Harlem's slum. There, he uncovers deadly secrets that draw him intt> the horrifying . world of THE BELI~\iERS. ALL OF ME. Feb.10 WecJ. 7, 9, 11 Steve Martin an(! Lily Tomlin · EdWina Cutwater (Lily Tomlin) is dying and wall•s her so.ul transferred into the body of a healthy young woman .. But tnings go awry when Edwina winds up occupying half Clf her reluctant .lawyer's (Steve Martin) be>Qy. Martin tries to straighten everything oot before Tomlin ruins his lif~ completely. • All llhowlngs at the Colllige Center Aud• · All tickets are $f. No food or beverage allowed. Crossgates Mall 'Ci.nema Fri. & Sat. 'QM.,Y 1 Fatal Attraction 1:35, ':30, 7:30, 10:~0 (not Sat. nite) 12:35 Sneak Pre: Shoot to Kill 9:40 (Sat.nite only) 2 Wall Street 12:15, 3:35, 6:45, 9:40 3 For Keeps 1:30, (:25, 7:25, 10:15 4 The Last Emperor 12:10, 3:~5. 6:40, 10:()0 5 Moonstruck 1:45:. 4:35, 7:15, 9:45 6 Broadcast News 12:40, 3:46, 7:00, 10:()5 ' 7 The Serpent & The Rainbow 2:05.4:45, 7:40, 10:25 8 l'hree Men & a 6aby 1.:05, 8:50, 6:35, 9:10 9 She's having a Baby . 12:50, 4:00,6:50,9:25 12:15 12:~5 11:55 12:30 . 12:30 11:25 . 11:50 10 Oood Moming Vietnam . 11 Couch Trip 11:10 12:25, 3:20, 6:25, 9:35 12:05 12:30, 3:10, 6:20; 9:00 · 12 Throw ~ma t=rom 1he Train Eddie Murphy RAW 12:35. 3:40, 6:15 8:55 11:05 Cgsteuo· s .. Restaurant Eat in or take out 10% discount with Union College I.D. THE BEST INn AUT:AN & GREEK FOOD Pizza, Calzones, Pasta, Veal Souvlaki; Gyros, Wine and Beer · • Vedl Parmesan with spaghetti and salad · Baked lasagna wi1h cheese and salad ' $8.50. $4.95 Casteno·s Pizza & Restaura.nt ·1487 State St., Schenectady *WiJI Deliver 37 4 .. 0581

CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1988 Page 19 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Su··mmer Undergraduate Research Fellow·ships ~ By JENNIFER KOVE Science Editor For about three years, Union Collegets IEF fund has been supp()rting _ student-faculty cooperative research for the summer. The goals of this program are. multiple. Students are given the opportunity to acquire hands-Qn experience in theil\ field of interest, and faculty advisors reap. the benefits of having assistance with. their project. Also, as the program grows in size, it should heigJ:Jten the intellectual level of the campus, making it con- ducive to encouraging a stimulating, exchange of crt:tative ideas and problems between students and, faculty. AU Union· College graduates are eligible to apply for tlre grants, The general procedure is that a professor selects one superior tllldergraduate he or shee feels would be an ap- propriate assistant; and the student applies if intere$ted. However, any student may ~pply as long as the application is s11pported- by a faculty sponsor.~n previous years there have been 18, then 48 Fellows. This year, 41 students will be selected. The recipients of the award will all live together on campus while they work in various fields. Exceptions have been made in the past where a Fell()W has been allowed to condu.ct research off-campus in such locales as Boston, New York City, and the Barbadoes! These are rare cases, however, and it is expected that field work will be re~ricted to the · Union campus. There are three. separate sources of .funds for this program. The college has an ongoing compilation. of funds from which it will award several .stipends of $1,250. In addition, funds ($1,250 also) come from an endowment from a grant from the Surdna Foundation and the Dana Foundation. The Dana grant is $2,000 but only available to financial aid students .. Seeing as this would be a swmner job, $1,000 is expected to be saved for educational expenses. A student may want to receive for work on his or her project in which case he or she will need approval from the sponsor and department chairman. The person would have to pay tuition for the summer course, · and the sponsor would be eligible for compensation from the Office of Continuing Studies. HowToApply Prof. Peter Tobiessen in STMZ 324 or Prof. Bradley Lewis of 211E SS are distributing applications. You may pick one up beginning Wednesday, February 3. Each completed form must be ac- companied by supporting let- Space Capsule: Election \88 By MARTY HECK The 1988 Presidential election in the space column? Is this a misplaced political com- ment.c~ry? No, in f~ct, the 1988 Presidential election holds great importance for the future of America's space program. In 1987, the United States govern- -ment spent · over $30 billion dollars in space related projects. NASA accounted for more than half of the ex- pen.ditures, and the Defense Department used the rest for research and development of military projects relating to space, The election of 1988 will decide how funds will be allocatedlnthe future as well as the amcunt of the federal budget that 'will_be dedicated to space programs. The Presidential candidates differ greatly on the amount of time and money they feel the United \States government sbollld contribute. to the space program. Democratic can- didates Richard Gephardt and Michael Dukakis have claimed to support some . space programs, but believe that .in times of such large economic troubles, the government should use its fWlds elsewhere. Gore iS the only Democratic candidate who has expressed a strong pro-space attitude, but this could change because not all candidates have taken a position. Republicans are generally much more~tnclined towards a large space budget andtbe election of a Republican ,would abnost certainly assure a strong space program in the futm-e. A blgday for the future of the spaee program is 'Space' Tuesday as proponents of spacd spending call it, though most of ·us know it as Super Tuesday. On this day, a large number of primaries take place in the ·south, which is generally very supportive of a high budget. The US space program could be assured a generous budget if candidates favoring space projects are elected. Behind the scenes, advocates of a large space budget try to guide federal spending through the use .of political action committees or PACs. Three such organizations are the National Space Society, SPACE CAUSE, and SPACEPAC. The NSS con- centrates on educating people about important space related projects, and SPACECAUSE is In charge of lobby,ing. The group diligently working the '88 election is SPACEP AC, a sister- PAC to .SPACECAUSE. SPACEPAC is working to in- form candidates about the importance space will hold in our future. SPACEPAC will then work with candidates supporting a continuation of . a extensive space program in hope they will be elected and thus guarantee a secure future for the US space program. SPACEPAC is also working to place a large $pace program as a high . priority on both the Republican and Democratic party platforms. Anyone interested in helping - ensure the United States government remain§ devoted to a strong space program may write to: SPACEPAC 2801 B Ocean Park Blvd. SUiteS Santa Monica; C.A 90405 SPS Meeting! The Society of Physics Students will meet on Tues- day, the 9th in Steinmetz 1 06 at 4:30. A Nova repeat will be aired and refre$hments served! ters from sponsors and sub- mitted to Prof. 'l'o biesseri by Monday of the ninth. week of winter term (2-29). Awards will be announced during the last week of the term in order that unsuccessf.Ul applicants will still have ample time to find alternative summer earnings. The program is an excellent opportunity to gain experience in your field of interest and aid in deciding whether .or not you will enjoy a research. ex• perience. The only requirement is that a final report be sub- mitted. Completed final evaluation forms for the prQgram must accompany the final report. If the stu~ent fails to fulfill this requirement he will not receive his final pay. A synopsis of the siUllmer is a small price to pay for such a promising and rewarding ex- perience. If only we were always paid to go to school! ----~- \Oh for .Pete's sake, let's just get some ozone and send it back up t~ere!\ from What•s So Funny About Science by Sidney Harris High Speed Colloquium Fallout By ALAN DeSALVI~ Last week's Physics Department colloquim dealt with the aeronautics of flight at high Mach number, meaning the Mach 4 to 35 vegime. At these speeds the air tem- perature reaches the vicinity of 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit. including wind chill. Such conditions are u.sual!y en- countered only by meteors and re-entering spacecraft but an exciting project NASA is working on will brealt all speed records by operating routinely at such incredible velocities. What's the big problem with . spaceflight today'! It's too expensive to lift a payload into orbit. ·Right now lifting a kilogramlnto orbit on the Space Shuttle costs around $3,000. This figure is approximately the same f()r all laanchers, regardless. of nationality, despite what the Soviets promise with their Proton booster. The Shuttle's proponents promised lower launching costs due to reusable components, etc., but the real costs of a rocket system are inescapable. Something like 99, percent of what lifts off the launching pad is deadweight, completely worthless as far as the final objective of the lift is concerned. It's all fuel, fuel containment and fuel burning systems. Unfortunately, the horribly inefficient rocket is the only method we have to get into orbit, or, equivalently, it's the only way we have to achieve orbital veolcity, which is about 36,000 miles per hour tor Mach 25) in low earth orbit. By comparison, the fastest aircraft, the SR-71, tops out at Mach 3. The limitation on any aircraft's speed turns out to be whether it can bw-n its fuel while it is still inside the engine, where it can provide thrust. The SR-71 operates at the limit for hydrococarbon fUel, and at Mach 3 it goes to .some amazing lengths just to keep the airflow slow enougli within the engine for cumbustion to occur. Methane provides the next step. burning fast enough to allow flight in the Mach 4;6 range, but even that is a frac- tion of orbital speed. The tn- termediate aircraft has been callecl the orient express, since it will drastically cut down the travel time for those long trans- pacifk flights. I1ydrogen is the fastest burniing material available, and burning it in an advanced version of the ramjet called a scramjet will allow travel at Mach 25. Extensive research i.:: prese11tly going on under the auspirr:es of NASA and DARPA to design such an aircraft, presently called the national aerospace plane. La101ching costs with this type ()f vehicle will be much lower than with a rocket for two reaS<Jns : one, it has to carrv half the fuel a rocket does- the oxidant is available in the air, and two, by its very nature the whole aircraft is totally reusable- meaning there are no n'lassl ve one-time launcher buys. Last week's speaker closed with promise of New York to Tokyo in a couple of hours. How about l'lew York to orbit in a few hours? \Our cruising altitude will be 200 miles... \ Union's Hidden Mathematical Masterpieces ByPRABIRCHAKRABARTY Deep in the recesses of the Science and Engineering building lies one of the hidden treasmes of Union College. I have many times rushed by this enclave on the way to Biology lab without a passing glance. Yet, in tbis dark corridor lie some of the most beautiful structures to be foliild at this school. The bookshelf there houses exquisite geometric models. At first sight, one marvels at the tecmical detail of the models, as their long strings twist and turn into amazing shapes. Then one wonden who built these structures, and with what purpose were they ''-uilt? These models were created by Professor Theodore Olivier between 1&10 and 1845. He was a professor of descriptive geometry . at the C<lt1Servatoire National des Arts et Metiers in Paris, Francs. 'These models were originally created as a means of three-dimensionally depicting intersections of curves. Mental visualization of curves is (ln extremely tough process. The greatest asset of these models was that one could study the curves from any angle, and amazingly ·enough, adjust them. Union acquired these original models from Prof. Olivier's widow in 1853. They were purchased by William M. Gillepsie, a professor of civil engineering and graphics. The original set consisted of 49 models, while today, approximately 43 or 44 remain. The models have recently been restored by Professor William Stone, lillld a crack team of students. Stone is a professor of · mathematics at Union. College. Professor Stone used the models when he was a student at Union College. So~ he wanted the models to be displayed for the current Union student body. These models still have a special significance, even in these da,ys of computer ·animation. These geometric structures are as much works of art as they are mathematical masterpieces. I urge every Unioa student to take a few m.in11tes out between classes and e-:xperience the elegance of these structures for themselves. Ph.ysi~s Colloquium ••rt:Je lnterna.tlonal Plryslcs Olympiad\ Dr. Arthur Eisenkraft, Fox Lane High School Bedford, NY Steinmetz 106 .Refreshments 4:30, tafk begins at 4 :45 Private Physics Tutoring S1uart Pratt 377-6415 Tony Vrondissis 370-6831 GROUP RATES AVAILABLE Physics Tutoring For Aop Students M,W, TH 7-10 p.m. Humn 014 ·• ..

CONCORDfENSJS, February 4, 1988 Page 19 SCIENCE AN'D TECHNOLOGY Su·mm_e{ Under.graduate Research · Fello,wships ByJENNIF~RKOVE · Seien~e Editor For abaut three y~ars, Union College's IEF fund has been sup.porting _ student .. facultY couperative research. for the SUilliRer. The goals of this program are multiple. Students are given the opportWiity to acquire hands-on experience in their field of interest, and faculty advisors reap. the benefits of having . assistance with their project. Al$o,. as the program grows in size, it should heighten the intellectual 'level of the campuS; makiQg it con-. du<!'ive to , encouraging a sthnulatin,g, exchange · of cre_ative ideas and problems between students and, faculty. These are l'are cases, boW¢ver, and it .is expected tllat field work will •J)(l restricted to the · Unil:m Caitli>US~ There BJ:\e . tt:nee. separate sources ()t fu.nds flH this program. Tile college has an ongoing compilation of fWids from whieb it will award several .stipends of $l~250. In addition, funds ($1,250 a'l~) come from an endowment from a · grant E.rom the Surdna Foundatio!l and the Dana Foundation. The Dana grant is $Z,OOO but ,()Ii}y available to financial ai!i:students. Seeing as this would be a summer job, $1;000 is. eX}lected to be saved for educati()nal el!:pen::~es. ters irorn sponso~s and .sub- mitte<l t() Prof. 'robie$Seri by Mon<ia,- of the ninfh week of wint~t -term {2~29 ) .. Awards will be a!Jfiounced durillg the last week of the. tenn in order that unsuc~e:flsful appli~ants will still illlVE ample time to find alterna.tlve SllllUller earnings. The J>rogram is a11 excellent opporttmity to gain experience in yotU~ field of interest and aid in dediding whether or not you Will enjoy a rese(lrch. ex .. periemee. The only requirement is that ~ final rep()rt. be sub- mitted:.. Completed final evalu!lltlon for.ms for the pr9g1\'8Jll must accompany the final!ep()rt. If the student fails to fu:Jfiill this reqllirement be Will Bot receive hls final pay. A synops:is of tbe sllllliiler is a $111all(lt\'ice to . pay for such a prom:i;ill:g and rew-arding el!- periellce.. I( only we were alwa]'fi paid to go to school! J''/ .\ 1~5 \Oh Pete's sake, let•s just get some ozone and se11d it. back up there!\ from What's So Funny About Science by Sidney Harris All Union· College graduates aJ.1e eligible to apply for the grants. The .general procedure is t4at a professor selects one superior undergraduate he or Shee feels woUld be an ap .. proprlate assistant;. and the student applies if interested. However, any student may apply as long as the application is supported- .by a faculty sponsor .. ln previous years there have been 18, then 48 Fellows. This year, 41 students will be selected. The recipients. of the award will aD live together on campus whiie they work in various fields. Exceptions have been made in the past where a Fellow has been allowed to conduct research off-campus in such locales as Boston, New York City, and the l3arbadoes! A student may w~nt .to receive for vork on llis ar her project in which case be or she will need approval from. the Sponsor ~nd department chail'man. The person wouid have to· pay tuition for the summer cotus·e, · and the sponsor \\\()llld be eligible for compensation from theOffice of Continuing Studies. High Speed Colloquium Fallout li~v To Apply Prof. Peter Tobiessen in STMZ 324 or Prof. Bradley Lewis of 211E SS c;re distributing ~pplications. You may pioJ;;: one. up beginning Wednesday, February 3, Each completed f()nn must be ac- companied \)y supporting let~ Space Capsule: Election '88 By MARTYJIECK The 1988 Presidential election in the space Column? Is this a misplaced political .. com· mentary? No. in fact, the 1988 Presidential election h.old·s great importance for the future of America's space program. In 1987, the United States govern· Tuesday as :propone11tsaf spacd spending calt it, tho 11gb most of us know it ~sSuperTuesday. On this day, a large number of primaries take place in the ·-south, which is generally very supportive ()fa high budget. The US space program (ould be assured a ~enero.us b11dget if candidates favoring space projects are elected. B.y ..ALAN DeSA:LVI~ Last week's Physics Depar:ament col'loquim dealt with tiLe aeronautics of flight at high l'A!lch number, meaning the Macll 4 to 35 regime. At · these speeds t.he air tem- perat uce reaches the vicinity of 10,0000 degre.es Fahrenheit. inclu.dan.g wind ()hill. Such cond!itiio;ns are usually en- countet:'eti only by meteors and re\ente rii:lg spacecraft but an excitimg project NASA is workin~ ()n Will brealt all speed recor-<18 by operating routinely at suu:ln incredible velocities. Wh~l's the big problem with . spacef1ight today? It's too expensivE to lift a :payload into orbit. \Right now lifting a kilogr:a:m. into orbit ()n the Space Shuttle costs aroUlld$3,000. This figure is approXimately the same - f()r all launchers, regartless of nationality, despite what tilt:! Soviets promise with tneir Proton boosteno, The Shuttle's proponrents promised lower launc!JLng costs due to reusable com~ne11ts~ etc., but the real costs 01f a rocket system are inescapable. Something like 99. percent of what lifts off the launching pad i,s deadweigpt, completely worthless as far as the final objective of the lift is concerned. It's all fuel, fuel containment and fuel burning systems. Unfortunately, the horribly inefficient rocket is the only method we have to get into orbit, or, equivaiently, it's the only way we have to achieve orbital veolcity, which is about 36,000 miles per hour (or Mach 25) in low earth orbit. By comparison, the fastest aircraft, the SR-71, tops out at Mach 3. The limitation on any aircraft's speed tllrns out to be whether it can burn its fuel while it is still insi:dethe engine, where it can provide thrust. The SR-71 operates at the limit f(}r hydrococarbon fuel, and at Mach 3 it goes to ,some amazing lengths just to keep the airflow slow enough within the engine for cumbustion to occur. Methane provides the next step. burning fast enough to allow flight in the Mach 4; 6 range, but even that is a £rae· tion of orbjtal speed. The in· termemate aircraft has been called the orient express, since it will drastically cut down the travel time for those long trans- pacific flights. Hydrogen is the fastest burning material available, and burning it in an advanced version of the ramjet called a scramjet will allow travel at Mach 25. Extensive research is presently going on under the auspices of NASA and DARPA to design such an aircraft, presently called the national aerospace plane. LaWiching costs with this type of vehicle will be much lower than with a rocket for two reasons: one, it has to carrv 1iaJI the fuel a rocket does- the oxidant is available in the air, and, two, by its very nature the whole aircraft is totally reusable- meaning there are no massive one .. time launcher buys. Last week's speaker. closed with promise of New York to Tokyo in a couple of hours. How about New York to orbit in a fevv hours? \Our cruising altitude will be 200 miles ... \ ~ment spent · over $30 · billion dollars in space related pr()jects. NASA accounted for more than half ef the eX:· penditures,. and the Defense Department used the rest for research and development of military projects relating to space.- The election of 1988 will decide how funds will be allocated in the future as wen as -the amount of the . federal :budget tf1at 'will_be dedicated to space programs. The Presidential candidates differ gre~tly on the amoUnt of time and money they feel the United· \'States government shoUld contribute. to the space program. Democratic can- didates Richard Gephardt and MiChael Dukakis have claimed to support so~e space programs, but believe that in times of such large economic troubles, the government Should use its funds, elsewhere. Gore is the only Deinocratic candidate who has expressed a strong pro-space attitude; but this could change because not an c81ididates have taken a pDsition. Republicans are generally much morEdnclined toward$ a large .space budget and the election of a Republican ,would almost certainly assure a strong space program in the future. Behind Ue scenes, advocates of a large S!)ace budget try to guide federal spending through the use ~f political action committees or PACs. Three .such orga11izations are the National Spa.ce Society, S P A C E CA U S E , an d SPACEPAC. The NSS con- centrates oil educating people about inlportant space related projects, artd SPACECAUSE is in charge of lobbyjng. The group diligently workiDg. the '88 election is SPt\.CEPA.C, a sister~ PAC t() SPAGECAUSE. SPACEPAC is workiDg to in- form candidates abo11t the importance 'Space will hold in our fut'ilr'e. SPACEPAC will then wor:k with ci:indidates supporting a continuation of a extensive space program in hope they \Vill be elected and thus guarantee a secure future Union's Hidd~n Mathematical Masterpieces A big day for the flltlll\e of the space prDgram. is 'Space' · for tile . l:T~ space program. SPACEPAC is also working to place a large space pt\ogram as a high priority . 011 beth the Rep\Ublican and Democratic party pl~tforms. . Anyone interested bt helping - : ensure tl..e United States governmentremaiil!ii devoted to · a strong space program :may 'Write to: SPACEEAC 2801 B Ocean Park Blvd. SUites Santa M{)nica, CA. ·90400 . . .. . . - . SPS Meetin·g! . The Society of Physics Students will meet oil Tues~ · day, the 9:th ln Steinmetz 10& at 4:30. A Nova re~JE~at will be aired and r$ft&$11ments served! \ ByPRl\.BmCQAKRABARTY De:Elp in the recesses of the Sciemce and Engineering buUtlhlg lies one of the hidden treaslll:'es of Union College. I have 10a.ny times .. Mished by this enclavre on the way to Biology lab Wli.iltout a passing glance. Yet, h:t this dark corridor lie some of the most beautiful struettJtes to be folllld at ·this school.. 'I'he bOokshelf there hous,es exquisite geometric models. At first sight, one marveJ3 at the technical detail of tlJe tnodel.s, as their long strin1111 twist and turn into ama:d:ng shapes. Then one wondll!rs Who built these st·ruc.t1!re$~ and with what pUl\pplse were they built? Thme models were created by Profe!JS()r Theo~re Olivier betwEet~1830 and l&fi. He was a protes:sor of ·descriptive geometr, at the Conservatoire Nation-aL des Arts Clt Metiers in Paris, Frmce. These modeJs were cmrjg:inally created as a means of three-dimensionallY depiet.i~g interseetions of curves. Mental visualization of curves is ~ extremely to11gh process. The greatest asset of these models was that one could study the curves from any angle, and amazingly \Cn.~ugh adjust them. U11ion acquired these original models from Prof. Olivier's Widow in 18a3. They were pllrchased by William M. Gillepsie, a professor of civll: engineering and grapJ:ifcs. The original set consisted of 49 1nodels~ wbile today, appro:::idm~tely 43 or 44 remain. The models have recently beeri restored by ProfeSSor William Stone, !lnd a crack team of students. Stone is a pnfessor of mathematies at Union. College .. ProfessoT Stone used the models -when he wss a student at. Union College. So, he wanted the models to be displayed for the current Uni()n student body. These models still haV'e a speelal significance, even in these days . of com1'uter animation. These geometl\'ic structures are, as ml1Ch works of art as they are mathematical masterpieces. I utge lWery Union student to take a few minutes out between classes and experience the elegance oE these structures for themselves. Ph.ysics Colloquium \TI;Je International Physics Olympiad\ Dr. Arthur Eisenkraft, Fox lane High School Bedford, NY Steinmetz 106 Refreshments 4:30, talk begins at 4:45 Private Physics Tutoring Stuart Pratt 377-641 5 Tony Vrondissis 370-6831 GROUP RATES AVAII.ABLE Physics Tutoring For Aop Students M,W, TH 7-10 p.m. Humn 014 ....

· Page 20 CONCORDIENSJS, February 4, 1988 Evangelist Church. Following SCHOlARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS . ' the Mass there will be a reception f~r the Bishop on the Union Campus in Upperclass Dining Hall 2nd floor of the ~ Folk Group,--All singers and musicians interested in being part of the :Music Ministry at the 7.:30 p.m. Liturgy may meet with Friar Phil at 6: 30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. For Sale: Used pull-out couch, reclining chair, and . coffee tables available Feb. 17. Looking f<>r best offer. Call 393- 6142. Stud~nt t() work in Audio- Visual Depactrnent. Must be available lv.lomday, Wednesday or Friday tmorni:ng. Contact Margaret Wadenrz, HumanitieS :Bldg. 013, or phone :x;6438. John Hopkins Universi1y, the Center for the Advancement of Academically Talented Youth, is now recrUiting faculty and . staff members for their sum- mer, 1 988 Residential Programs. For ·more in- fonnati.m, contact the CDC. The NY State College of Veterin~ry Medicine is offering a special .summer employment opportunity program for minority students. The pl.\ogram will offer opportunities for learning about the profession of veterinary medicine as well as gaining veterinar-y medical animal related experiences. For more information, contact · the CDC. Roswell Park Memorial Institute is once again offering its summer research program open to those students in- terested in the sciences. More information is available upon request at the CDC. CLUB NEWS Welcome Bishop Hubbard- Sunday, February7 at 7.:30 p.m. Bishop Howard Hubbard, D.D., Bishop of Albany has accepted the invitation of the Newman Club to be celebrant and to preach at St. John the Thanks To All The . Students Who Were So Generous With Their Time In Helping Me For My Study Of \Development Of Language\ The CD winners are: First prize of $6() to #3252869 G) Second prize of $40 to #3252849 ® Third Prize of $2() to #3252855 Please call Erol Kandil to pick up your prize. 377-9596 (8-10 pm) All other participants win receive variou:s other prizes mailed to their mailboxes. College Center for the Union 1 Community, -their families and' friends. Guest Speaker-Monday, Februru:y 8 at 7 :00 p.m. in 410 College Center, Fr. Bill Ryan Chaplain at SUNY Cobleskill and the N. Y :S. Correctional Institute and formerly Chaplain at SUNY Albany will speak on \Homosexuality\ and entertain any questions students may have. All are welcome. Confirmation-Saturday, April 30 at 5:30 p.m. Bishop Hubbard will administer Confirmation at St. John the Evangelist Church. Sister Joan will condllct classes for Union students Mondays 3-4.:30 p.m. in Room 4.04B College Center: Female looking for off- campus housing $pring terrn. Please <:all 370-6972 or drop a note to Box 1092. Earn really .easy $$$! Only 5 minutes of y-our time. Fresh- men especially for survey. Call x6961. Shut-ms-Any Union Co]lege student · who wishes to visit a shut-in of St. John's parish regularly during these winter months is asked to contact Sr. Joan's sister, Gerri Borne at 372-3381. T11torial PrDgram-Union students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten Aides, Library Aides, and Math and Reading ()n a o~:te to one. Please contact Kristin Nelson (386- 4364). Feb. 8, 15,. 22, 29, Mal.\ch 7, 28, April 4, 11, 18. If a Union student wishes to be Confirmed and cann()t make this time please call Sr. Joan 6067 or stop by her office. · CLASSIFIEDS Earn easy $$$. Participate in student independent study (freshman preferred). Call Marjorie 370-6961. · Typist-resumes, term papers, misc. Fast service. 382--8326. Collegiate Typing. Nassau/Paradise Island ~ &\' ... ~ C,ANCUN, MEXICO~\'~ ~ -~ ~~~ ~· SPI?/Nt; ONEill< \ ~011> ?- FEBRVARY 27 -APRil 10, 1988 . .. ... ; . -' ' : :, : . ~ ••• ill< ' ~ .• :..~· ~I' '• ....... ..,..::r- • • \ • -SCULPTORS WANTED FOR SNow SculPTuRE C!lf\JTEST 5,~1liR{)AY 1 F£6.13l'H AT SKa WJNDHAM OUR!N6 SKI FEST~88 SPoNSORED BY SK! t\J\6~2! NE fO~ M~R~ lNfDRMATION CALL ELA-INE CARROLL SKI WlNfiHAM 5l9 -T34- 1.}\300 PRIZES WEEKLY DEPARTURES FROM $ 2 7 9. 0 0 COHPLE·I E P~CK~GE INCLUDES 1 * ·noU,.DTiUP .1\JR FROM NEW ~ORR, PHII.:ADELPHlA AND SOSIOI< TO NASSAU/ PI'IRi\DlSE ISLI>ND AND CANCIJN; MEXICO. OTHER CITIES AIIAILABLE. * ROU .. DTRIP TR~NSFERS FROH AIRPORT TO HOTEL • AN INTERNSHIP IN LONDON COULD HELP YOUR CAREER PROSPECTS W)Jy not go this Spring or Summer Quarter ~tf' . :198~ dates:- Spring - A.pril t1-June 19 ~ 7 N[GHTS HOTEL ACCOHMDOAflONS. * WElCOME RU~ S~IZZLE AT flOST HOTELS (NASSAU). * ONE HOUR RUll (NASSAU) OR TEOUZLI\ (CANCUN) PARH. • ·THRE'E HOUR CR\JlSE WITH tJ~LIHliED RUH PUNCH ~NO Otl BOARD ENTE.R 11\ IUHE.Nf (NASSI>U\FARADISE lSLAH~)- * THREE llEl<ICH ·PARTIES (O~E HUH FREE LUNCH) ~USIC ~HO ACTIVU lES (IIASSnU) * E)(CLUSIVE FJIEE ADMISSION TO THE PALACE, t-IAIERLOO AND HIE DRUtteEAr CLUB (tlASSI'IU). * COLLEGE I\EEK PROGRAMS SY THE BAHAHAS TOURIST OFF ICE. * ON LQCATl~ PROFESSIONAL TOUR ESCORT. \ FOR MORE HIFORMATION CONTACT: AMEFIICAN TRAVEL SERVICES, INC. 456 GLENBROOK: FIOAD STAMFORD, CT. 06906 1-aoo-231-0113 or l2031967-3330 t:;;.,J ~ ;,tl ORGANIZE A SMALL GROUP AND EARN A FREE TRIPI! ~IS&' f'/o vJA~ .St..ilrPY 11( M;/!if .II ..,- ll E\ .4-o!-l ll>l I S11l. ;.fio/\1 r s I/' 4 ButJc ~I or 7r'llliLY \R1c.Wrtovs 1iuDrs/' (~~~/.4o-Y 0&1/IOV.IU' p.;-r • 11 Lo'T or 1fur ~t!.J . \,~:.·· •li.foUbH\'~ lf'/.f<l <_;r;:--rHF\: ·•. ·. \J ~M \(tJ7AtL '( f..>s'lo./~ i> V\IJ'fr..t 7H~ ~<SUl iS So \<\A\R. .$umrner- June 1~Aug. 9 Fa!Q - Sept. 5-Dec. 11 Places available in: BUSINESS, POLITICS, LAW FIRMS, MUSEUMS, RESEARCH LABS, SOCIAL SERVICES, HEALTH CARE, TOW~ PLAN~ING, EDUCATION Fees from $2,230 (inc. board & lodgh1!1) + credit + air far~ furllhAr details and credit arrangements contact: EPA USA Office, lha ~tudy Abroad Office Marymount College, · on Camp11s Tarrytown, NY 10591 (9141 631-3200 'I ·'I Sene{ a Canc(yrjram\ for o/a{entine's Vay During. the we.ek of february 8-13, A E P.i will be selling Candy Grams at Carneg:ie and West . .It's o:hly $1 allld all p.roceeds go· to charity. A -fotrS~ -To ··nToS\f-R<{~!f516lf:' Fo~ Get-\f•t-1€\. ?o \71/of:£ PeoPu W\-JO Cfi~E:jl {5(1/.a(}(Jf{ -10 .Su-i<DIIlt . Ct.~'~'~~ ARcivr-~!) qv~ P\'R-rvrrl& Just give us the name and campus address of Your Valentine ;plus a brief note and we'll do J1CV 7>VPES 1 '7\\1115 7okr:$ . · toR YoiA/'/ ~~ :w the rest. ~.,~ !for On{g $1 it's a (jreat fiift for a (jreat Cause ••...•• .., .

CONCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1988. Page %1 PERSONALS MMB +2nd floor, Thanks fer a wonderful birth- day! I love you all! Shelley Eileen, Happy 2oth birthday! The blender Is ready! ! ! The Dutch Hollo.w Restaurant is now accepting applications for part-time employment. Lun- chtime, evenings~ and weekends. Apply in person. Twerp-We're in for an insect raid, but keep the extert.njnator away! Fans of the A-2 show stay tWled for the special \J'm So in- fatuated. with Neil\ hour. Who says radio shows are boring? To ·carl George Whom r hold in great respect Apologies for indiscretion that became misrepresentation. _:Edlin DAP- You're a hard person to win. -Perplexed! To my dear friends who ap- preciate the art of slicing rqtten . bananas into a \fruit'' salad- yeah babe! Need a woman? Send yoUP name, phone number and a brief description of yourself to Box 1898. Help me celebrate my birthday!! Shelly-mom, Thanks for the early morning v.isit but next time let's try before 3!! Your loving daughter Chris, · Thanks for the show. Let's do it again sometime. Maybe next time we'll PllYUIQI!e. Your GDI pledges and little ~ister Lisa and KarEll, Should I forward my calls to your room? Sue .• To the sisters ()£ Delta Gamma · We loved the spaghetti-but · the utensils left SQmething to be : desired. The Pledges , By tlte way, wllat is an octopus t plug? · -Second story psychos of South ; Welcome back L!yssa PK and : Sleazly. I cali't believe you : came back to yolll' home! I've missed you! · Ellen & Gayle, I've been : supersonictied b¥ Price , : Chopper? How 'rout you? : Anyone, anyone? J .H. Just wanted tolet you know , . I was thinking about you. Thanx · · for letting me use your com- puter ... again. C()ngrats & good luck at Bell Labs. L,et's do EMAG sometime! ! Happy 19th birthday Kimmo! Super! Lo:ve, Lisa ·· Jen Lyon, her little sis!! I'm · psyched, now aJJ011t you? Too bad you don't kn()W Who I am, · · but you'll get to know me real well, real soo11. With love in GPB AJ:ld.ition for a comedy Improv . group call~d the Court Gestures-sunclay Feb. 7th at 7:30 in HU019. Tracy Fay, Thinking of Y()U! WITH LOVE, Your Beta Sigma To BETA of tile BETAS, Don't wo:rry, I ~was a cheerleader once, too! Love, BLOOM COUNTY ffJI?T/t/OY, _ ... _~...=!.!!!! your Pi Mom & Dad Poirier- Thanks for a great time. Yay, Redskins. --Jim, Emily, Shawn, Gary Ding, Ding-What a familiar sound on the North side of Fox- well there's always hope in becoming a pong pro. Steph.! Thanks for being my personal . psychologist! Love, Becky Mr. Politics, How does your garden grow? • RS-Thanx for everything last week! -Luv, Snowflake · Killer & Miller- I think you left · a pair ·of wet pink pants. in Rich- mond bathroom and the security desk is looking dusty- Better blow on it! Mole & Ed Are you funny? Join the Court Gestures-auditions this Sunday (Feb. 7) at 7:30 in HU019. So you want to learn standard, eh? OK. She certainly was · surprised, wasn't she? It's · great to finally be a junior! Thanx - The token freshman ED, Glad you could make it in one piece. PC Happy Birthday Val, Cathy and Amy! You all age so well!! Women& Men: Come party and ski at Rochester and Clarkson with the x-co~try ski team. All ability skiers welcome. Interested? Call 4377. Mom, Happy B' day. Ya ole woman. Your daughter Lisa, 2 weeks left and then, .. REST UP! But ~irst, put on -your shades and have another Molson Golden, I mixed it myself. ~DIDI Larry, I left you with a H- and a H- M. The answer to Union's housing crWlch! Let juniors sleep in Memorial Fieldhouse! ' birthd~y-! Love, The Madame of . the Br.mthel Pledge:s9 Hope you passed your exam. I-Week is coming soon! KS, ThaiLks.for Friday's bash! We had a great time. DG DQug :(.Acfuned), ShavE and a haircut, im~ mediatEly! Len-1 should have believed ·, Dave, ])'ave, Dave and Dave, him when he said my life was .. Nice meeting you Friday! \based on alcohol.\ -Henn. DI The three founding sisters . . . Barb, Kelly Garret, Jill Monroe and ! The tojlet paper incident has Sabrina Dunc'an · not been forgotten! PC Two hol:lSe managers, a match in physical plant. Suddenly, Mrs. Rupsi knows our majors ... Roommate .solidarity. Suddenly takes on new meaning ... L.S. ·Happy Birthday! You're a year older and a year wiSer! Now on to bigger and better things. M.B. Aruba here we come! Get psyched. Greenberg, what fun this weekend was - thanks! You'll have to keep working for that senior status ... extra brownie points for teaching me to drive a standard! Eileen, . I hope you ~ad an awesome Ua, Cong:rats; you wonder whiz! (Kinda Uke cheez whiz.) CD, I lovoe you. Meg, f'oiCelyn & Beeky, Great job at Cabaret! ! CAB Happr birthday, babe! KM Love -Yo()l.lr Acorn-Eating Rodent Chica! Con~tats. You're a bio wondet:\! Tracy .w~d Kim- Breai:kfast in bed was great! Can't be!Leve I almost missed it! Hov;rstupid can I be? Thanks ! ! LovE in PKE, Michelle International F:asFJion Show Saturday, Feb. 12 at 7 p.m. in the Co]lege Center by Berke Breathed ~--------------------~ NO WO/IJ11NfZfNfl, FeOft£, I t=eflf?. Of/R OPT10N5 f()R A M€11f7(}W PA!if'f PKt5/PffN77A/.. CfiNPI/JIIre' f1/!e 115 Gill€ M€ II CORRGNT SCRNPAt. K€'PrJKr ON 8/U. -nl€ NO .. fti1Gif1K/ZING, NO M11R!JVANP.51ZfN&, NO ANT!-5cMITICIZ!NG, AN!l NO 6TfJPI/?IC!Z!N& FOK liT t.£A5T llf H£'5' Bee-N KezPIN' lOW? ffiQfJIC.A lJrJMfl. It.L. &0 (}(j~y 116 (/6()11{.. ... / I f?ONT WANT 7rJ €C.ECT li COMATOJf CAN/l/Ofr!e:. HOW ar<uce BflB/3trr r CI1T. \ Ct£1/AI A5 A IM9Y'5 I?eH!N/7. .. · ' Mlf11!1NK5 YOU OV&I?UJOK Of/f<. Cf/NfJI/?IIT/5\5 UNfQ(}8 1/Pfe-!lt . .,, \ \ MONTHS. \ !NffreAP Of II f?f?C5/P&Nr WHO ;5 f/5(££? We' CI/N HIW£' ON£ Pf/5'5e(J Offf t!Tti<AUY/ NO WONJJ€RJN&. FfJU PJ5Ct!JXK€/ \~~ \ PfiEt!. HfM OfF -nrE f3flntfo:JM · ft.OOR.. \ ··~\\'

\ '. l Page 22 CQNCORDIENSIS, February 4, 1988 T:HE. COLLEGE BOOKSTORE COLLEGE GENTER HOURS: MON.-FRI. 8:45 AM - 4:30 PM SAT. 11 AM-3:00PM . LARGE ASSORTMENT 99¢.$2.99 UNION COLLEGE COLLEGIRTE CLOTHING SRLE LARGE ASSORTMENT 25% off· 50% off BACK PR'CKS Plush animmls 25% offm 500/o off ' LOOK WHAT'S NEW· I~N T~HE DUT'CH H'OLLOW RESTAURANT A FULL LINE OF GOURMET . 'CANDIES . ~ Imported Gummy Bears, Sour Patch Kids, Gum D.rops, Nuts, Exoti·c Imported Chocolates Like Champagne Truffles, Handm.ade Fudge BEN & JERRY'S ICE CREAM TREATS Now Selling 1/2 pints for take-out also- Just $1 .95, Dove bars $1 .:65, All Natural Frozen Fruit Bars $1 .00, Brownie bars $1 .65 PEPPERIDGE FARM COOKIES Many hew and exciting treats will be available. Come Join us at the Dutch Hollow. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • • • : NOW. EVENINGS SUNDAY- THURSDAY : - : BEN & JERRY'S WILL DELIVER : : ON CAMPUS. : • • • SEE SAMPLE MENU BELOW. • : CLIP & SAVE. ORDER TONIGHT. : • • : ®l:LD! ® JJ~OO!lliW'~ !ID~!kH\9lli:OO~ ~ : e @'!\o/!;illlilLID®l~ == @J~~@ !¥>\1001\ tt • • : ~'1~ !!!JINJO@'N) ®'il'OO!lllll'TI' : '. e M~~ e • {QJ~fQ[f~ @i~&!@lb01NJ[g4~®@J ~.,[M]., • • IMI~IN~IMlUIVJ OIRIDER $~0.00 _. • • • • • IPRIEIPAC_!<IEID P~!NlTS $2.50 • • BUTTER PECAN _NEW YO~K SUPER FUDGE • • -· CHERRY GARCIA _OREOMINT • • CHOCOLATE _· STRAWBERRY : _COFFEE HEATH BAR --~VANillA • • :J'CE ©JJ~,:M) ~O.~ili:® = ®J!Rl'fl}!Jmi!\'Y'/ @~ [7.l[bC\~OO __ DASTARDLY MASH _VANILLA CHOCOLATE CHUNK .:3~%~@ @@@@® • • SPECIAl ORDERS REQUIRE 48 HOU:Fts ADVANCE NOTICE _HEATH BAR CRUt-..CH _WHitE RUSSIAN • • SERVES 4 T . .,., 6 BBQWNIES $1.25 •.. __ SMALL $10.00 ...., • MEDIUM $15.00 SERVES 10 TO 12 BLONDE HEATH BAR • --LARGE $22.00 SERVES 16 T02\2 ,'-'J;:;:rro '?~'Ci}:~'E~ [J!l'JIJifM ®~o®® 9 @QDL!!}_rj'J~ ~®.®f$ =BLONDE REESES CUP • _CHOCOLATECHIP • @It CH0C. COINTREAU ORANGE CREAMSICLE _.FUDGE • ~ COOKIE DOUGH -PEANUT BUTTER CHOC CHUNK FUDGE HEATH BAR • , r_; ~ G.FJ~~.Ml .fJ!O'ld._g1 J j£i:3 °. CHOC FUDGE BROWNIE . ____ PISTACHIO NUT =FUDGE REESES CUP ~ CfiOC HEATH BAR BUTTER PECAN • ~ _ _CHO.C RASPBERRY PRALINE PECAN • 'CfJ CHOCOLATE COATED ICE CREAN BARS $2.00 CHOC SWISS ALMOND RACHEL'S BROWNIES COO_lilES $.50 CD. ·-coFFEE _-=_RAsPaERRY e ® HEAtH..BAR·CRUNCH · _N~W''fORK SUPER FUDGE -GEORGIA PEACH _SWEET CBEAMOREO CHOCOlATE CHIP • '@il WHITE RUSSIAN \/,1\NULI!.A -- KAHLUA AMARETTO VANILLA !KIT KAT MACAROON ALMOND CHOCOLATE CHIP ~ -MAPLE WALNUT -VANILLA lM&M • • BROWNIE lpE CFf~AM SANDytiCH il.Zll MOCHA SWISS ALMOND _.P,EANUT BUTTER CHOCOLATE CHUNK • ....................................................

. CONCORDJENSIS, February 4, 1988 Page 23 Olnncnrbitn.&is SPORTS Men's Swimming and Diving Defeat~ Vassar and PlaHsburgh Ski Tea·m ,Quick Out ·Of Blocks nyTOM CHRmTOPHER With two strong wins last week ;;1gainst Vassar and Blattsburgh,, the men's ·swQn. ming· and diving teams have improved their record to 3-3. This term's competition began, however, against a traditionally t()ugh Trinity team. There were some fast .performances for the Dutchmen, whiCh pl'ovided incentive for continnt,d im- provement leading t<:l this past week's success. Against Trinity, Lee Fraiji took 1st place in the l,OOOFreestyle, and the 200 Breast. Freshman Tom Kim broke out with strong wins in the 40 and 100 Free, and the team of Joe Kowalski, Jeff . Nolan,. Fraiji, . and Kim took first in the 400 Free Relay with a time of 3:41.61. Traveling to Hartwick on the 21st, the team met with good competiti!)n and bad luck. The opening 400 Medley Relay team of Mark Abbey, Lee Fraiji, Jeff Nolan, and Tom Kim was disqualified after a winning finish because of an early start by Fraiji. When the final relay ~ ~ ~ a: J: 0 (!J ·W c: (!J 6:i 0 ' b ' ·s: was over, with another win for Union, it turned out that the Swinuning Dutchmen had lost by 8 points; the value of the mis~ing 1st in the opening relay. After training bard on Friday in preparation for Norwich on Saturday, Jan. 23, the ·swim- By COLIN INGERSOLL The Union College Men's Ski Team continued their way to the Eastems by taking fifth .place at th~ Colgate Invitational Ski Meet foll()wed by the W()men'S mers and divers did very well against this strong opponent. Fraiji and Christopher took first and third. in the 1,000 Free, whiTe Kim won the 50 Free. After Jason Broome and Craig Wortman took first and. third in the 1M Required Diving, Unlon was up, 50-46. However, after grabbing first place in the 200 Fly, 200 Back; 200 Breast, l:M: . team finishing in sixth place for the weekend. Optional Diving, and the 4()() Free Relay, Norwich had .put up enough points to go over Union, 95-114. Everyone swam strongly against both- Vassar and . · Plattsburg, and most sWim- mers are seeing their times drop steadily. This is important because five difficult meets lie ahead with EPI on Wednesday, · Hamilton on Saturday and Albany on Wenesday the loth. Hobart and Middlebur,y round · ()Ut the dual meet season on Saturday, Feb. 13 and Tuesday, Feb. 16. All these meets are home, except for Middlebury. The fine ~pectator turnouts have helped all the swimmers and divers do their best, and with any luck those attending any of the remaining home meets should see the Swimming and Diving Dutchmen finish this season well over .500. . The men's and women's Alpine team travelled west to Hamilton,. New York to compete in their second meet of the season at Colgate University's own ski hill. The small hill proved not to be a test of a skier's own ability due to the very small and flat slope. As a ·result, many of the racer's times were bunched very close together making it a very close .race for the top six competitive teams in both the men's and women's teams. in 19th place and senior John Fox in 2oth place, the second and third finishers for Union. Clarkson domillated the day by· taking fll'st, second· and third plcaes. Union women's top finiShers were junior Robin Raff who took an incredible 12th place out of 70 racers. Finishing close behind Robin for the women were freshman Leslie Ross in 19til place and sophomore Amy Kraeger with a 24th place finish. The Union women's team ended up finishing in sixth place in the Slalom. How Do Fast Women Really Score? Following a fourth place finish in the Slalom race and a fifth place finish in the Giant Slalom,. the men's team still wound up in a three-way tie for third place with the University of Buffalo and RPI. Clarkson took first place followed by Syracuse University taking second place for the weekend. After figllring out of place point finishes, the men's team finished behind Buffalo and RPI taking a fifth place finish which still keeps them in contenti()n for the Easterns. With barely any snow on the ground the Slalom race was held on Saturday with freshman Pat Rowe leading the men's team by taking 14th place, giving an excellent per- formance. Followed by Pat was junior Mark Haughton finishing Following al()ng night of snow making by Colgate, they were able to hold the Giant Slalom race. Coming out strong on SWlday was sen.ior Chris \Big Guy\ Hurcomb, who on Satnrday had a disappointing day when his skis pre-released. Chris finished eighth place followed close by, for Uni()n, junior Blake Henderson in 16th place, senior John Fox in 28th place and Mark Haughton in 29th place. Union women's top finishers were Robin Raff in 11th place, junior Erin Sheehan in 22nd place and Amy Kraeger taking 30th pla(!e. Finishing also for the women were senior Celia Mann in 37th place and fresh- man Beth S\Vaggert in 39th place. The women's team finished on SWlday in fifth place giving them a sixth place finish for the weekend. Next week, Union Men's and Women's Alpille Ski Team will travel to Magic MoWltain where they will host the race along with RPI and Albany State University. ByJ.A.L.L. Once again tne Union Women's track team emerged yictorious from Friday night's massacre. Union, Hartwick, .Siena, Potsdam, and Houghton met head to head on our home The .girls proved strong ·,and talented as they seized seven first place titles. turf. Although in the end it was close, the women walked away with a 81-72 victory over: second place team Hartwick. The girls proved strong and talented a§ 1hey seized seven first place titles in the various events. One of the first place honors was . snared . by Stephanie Woodard as she hurled the shot put 10.69 meters. Her im- pressive throw maintained her season-long winning streak. Sherri Cargile had a fine finish in the---1000m run as she nabbed the 1st place position with a time of 3:28.3. Jen Regan followed closely to take second place. The girls ran well together, manifesting team- work, and racing strategy. Jen Regan also scored 3rd i,n the high jump with a personal best of 4'6\ ·a. ~inch improvement over last week's performance. Once again, Terri Thomas continued her undefeated season . of high jumping, by takmg first place honor, Overcoming a menacing knee problem, Eileen Brady powerfully strode to. an easy victory in the 1500m run with a keen time of 5: 19.4. Maria Leonard also ran a strong race, knocking nine seconds off last week's time, and finished an important third. Union showed depth in the 400m dash as two of the girls scored. Freshmen M~g Parsons and Denise McMillan finished 3rd (65. 7) and 4th (67 .3) respectively. These girls fur- ther demonstrated their skill in other events. Meg brought home a 5th in the 200m while Denise took a 4th in the 50m dash. In her first season of track, freshman Roslyn Morse also made her way to the finals in the ~Om dash, where slle snagged the: 5th place pcsitim. Plagued by illne~, J en Lee <fidn't succomb to personal suffering. Leaving all com· petitors almost a whQle lap in her wake, Jen crossed tbe line triumphant with a sharp time of 2:27 in the 800m run, fracturing yet another school record. Lorie . Anderson, almost an entire team in herself, demonstrated her versatility as she scored well in five events. lo'rie began her day with a victory in the 50m hurdles, followed by a 5th iil the shot put, two 3rds in the long jump and triple jwnp, and capped the day off with a strong 3rd in the 500m run with a time of 1:21.1. Also running well in the 500m was Clare Ginsberg- Lytle. She gave the tough competition a run for it as she sped to a close 2nd with a time of 1:26.11. Clare also scored points in the 200m, where she took home a 4th place finish. Lynette Nielsen 'took care of business' in the 3000m rlin as she brought in the Victory with a time of 12:14. This event proved crucial in Union's victory over Hartwick. The mile relay team, consisting of Brady, Cargile,. Regan, and Leonard, finished up a successful day with a ·second place. The team's victory brought their record to an excellent 6-1. The next few weeks will bring increased competition, but judging from several of the performances in this meet, the ladies will rise to the occasion. You will have aliQther chance to see them run this Friday, as Union hosts the Capital District Meet._ SUPPORT UNION SPORTSI Women's H~lop: Realizing Their Potential! By ELLEN TAPLEY Every coach's dream is to witness th9ir particular team reach its overan PQtential. Very often these fantasies fall short, as for one reason or another a t~ might never realize this goal. This, however, is not the case with Bonnie Gehling and her squad of women basketball players. For, in the last three weeks, the team. has rebounded after an initially slow st~ immediately folloWing break, into what is perhaps the strongest unit of players in w~en's basketball history at Union. Winning the last three ·Of siX games, juat; a ..wt part of the . team's. overall success, has been due to the overwhelmillg effort that each player has made in contributing to a five- person unit which functions as one. Individual success, although prevalent, has been undermined by the more prominent play of the entire team. Andin playing such rival teams as Middlebury, WiJ.liamS. and RPI, the team showed its true colors as a team to be taken seriously. Individual achievement can be seen on an parts of the court. Guards Gwen Stevens and Gina Prokoscll continue to use their incredible shooting talents from the outsJde (especially iil the . three-point area);. while Julie Gallo has sparked the team with her speed, u seen in \peatecl fut breaks and d~ensive pl.iy. Colleen Dundon, Karen Haynes, Michele Van Patten, and Kate Kaufman have all shared in making Union a rebOunding teiUil- snatching crucial con· versions into their favor. Besides this facet, Dundon has excelled as an offensive player With power moves to the basket as especially noted in the Skidmore and R.I. T. games. Kate has proved herself to be a valuable center with her con- sistent ability to score in the inside (twenty points in a recent cont~st); while Karen has perfected her mid-key .shot helping the offense dramatically. Ttl-captain Michele VanPatten had a brilliant performance - in Saturday'.s game against R,J?.I., as 11\.e aunt aeveral key_ baskets in the ·~ai minutes of play. Players 'l'eri Boni and Linda Hynes continue to sup- port the team in a variety of ways, most noticeably when they enter the game with the determination t9 do their job correctly. All in all the team has proven itself as a viable threat in the league and is looking to further this premiSe on both the in· diVidual and unit levels. Suc- cess should oontinue to follow the team, as they have gone beyond many coaches' aspirations in that they are persistently lCJOkin8 to better their \best!\ Tile team's nut home game is Saturday, February6 at 2:00p.m. againlt ..~ton.

X•Country Team Begins lnde.pendent S.eason February 4, 1988 ••• Defeat Kings Point Cagers lose Close Contest to Will\iams By MARK VAN BUREN The Union College men's basketball team, for the second week in a row, split a pair of games. Only this time, they should have come away with two victor-ies. The Dutchmen lost to Williams College, 99-97, in overtime and came back two nights later to defeat Kings Senior Tom Peck Point, 94-83. Williams jumped out to a quick 10-5 lead, four and a half minutes into the game. Four minutes later, Tom Beck's three-point field goal pnt Union ahead 16·13- its first lead of the game. Mark Trudeau's jwnper at 7:43 gave Union a six point lead, 22-16. The Dutchmen still held a five point lead , 24-19, with 5: 361eft in the first half. At this point~ they went on to outscore Wi:lliams 19-11 - aided by 7 points from Steve Khen- tigan and 4 each from Dylan Kelley and Elgin Rhodes - to take a 43-30 halftime lead. The second half started out well for Uni·on. Doug Gregory's two free throws, 5: 20 into the period, gave the Dutchmen a 55- 46 advantage. In three minutes, the margin was increased to fifteen points, 67-52, after Dylan Kelley converted a three-point play. It was at this time that Union's demise began. Six turnovers on their next nine possessions saw the Dut- chmen's lead fall to 10 p()ints, 73-63. Steve DeBalso's three- point play boosted Union's advantage to 78-67 with just5:39 remaining. The bottom fell out on the Dutchmen after thls. By the 4:21 mark the lead was cut to 80-75, after Garcia Major scored five straight points. With 54 seconds left, Union still maintained an 83-81 lead when Doug Gregory converted one of two free throws. Dylan Kelley's two free throws gave Union an 85-81 lead with 30 seconds left. But, a three-point goal and Garcia Major's foul shot with 2 seonds remaining sent the game into overtime. Two Bill Peck free throws knotted the score at 91-all with 2:03 to play in the extra session. Dylan Kelley's three-point play at the 1:44 mark gave Union a 94-93 lead, its last of the game. Garcia Major's short jumper put Williams ahead 97-94 with 53 seconds left. Joe Romer tied the game wit.h two free throws with 8 seconds left. Jim Williams' lay-up with 0:01 showing on the clock handed Union its .ninth loss of the season. The story of this game was the fact that Union had 18 second half turnovers which _Williams converted intc 19 points, while Union dicl not capitalize at all on Williams' five turnovers. Dylan Kelley led Union with 28 points, while Joe Romer added 27. Two nights later, Union grabbed an early lead again and held for its fifth win, 94-83. From a 4-4 tie , Union went on a 15-0 run to open up a 19-4 lead just six. minutes into the game. ·With 9:36 left before halftime, Doug Gregory's jumper upped Union's lead to 33-14. The Dutchmen were still ahead by 17 points, 41-24, with 4:47left in the half. Kings Point outscored Union 15-7 the rest of the half, but the Dutchmen still lead 48- 39 at the intermission. The second half began ex.· catly as the first half. Union ran off a 21-8 spurt to open up a 69-47 lead. When Steve Khentigan hit a three-point field goal, the Dutchmen held their largest lead of the game, 25 points, 72- 47. Union cruised from here to an easy victory, 94-83. Joe Romer led Union with 26 points. Dylan Kelley followed Romer with 21 points, while Doug Gregory added 12 points. DUTCHMEN NOTES..... The next Dutchmen home game is Saturday, February 6 vs. Hamilton College. Game time is 8:00 .... Prior to the game vs. Albany State yesterday, Union held a record of 5-9, with 5 of the losses coming by 5 points or less.... Dylan Kelley leads the Dutchmen in scoring, averaging 18.7 ppg. He is followed by Joe Romer at 18.2 ppg ..... Despite their record, the Dutchmen are outscoring their opponents, 76.7 ppg to 75.8 ppg. Cross Country Team Hits The Trails By SUSAN KERSCH Chances are good that most students are unaware that Union has a Cross Country Ski Team. This new club, previously a part of the Alpine team, has recently become independent. The Nordic team is actively looking for new participants, but the small group, consisting mostly of freshmen and sophomores, is certainly holding its own on the $lopes. Com- peting in the Mideast Collegiate Ski Conference, Union faces · strong teams such as Clarkson, Syracuse, Yale and Colgate. Union's Cross Country team has been extremely com- petitive, especially considering the depth of talent and ex- perience of the opposing teams. At the Colgate : :~eet, sophomore Steve Listman broke into the top ten, and led Union's men to a startling comeback in tile lOK relay. Making up over- two minutes, he skied past Yale's racer within the sight of the finish. At West Point, Union was again battling the Yale skiers for 6th place. This time Union defeated Yale with a very comfortable lead in all events, dispite nearly impossible skiing conditions. Only half of the schools that have· competitive men's teams also .support women's teams. Union is proud to be one of these. All the women skiing this year have had no previous racing experien(e. At the army meet, the Union team slid past Rochester, beating them by one point. They hope to broaden this margin in Upcoming races. The women's team also have their sights set on overcoming a not to distant Syracuse team. This weekend the Nordic team heads out to Rochester. Anyone .at all interested in joining the team either for practices or meets is very welcome. These people are urged to call SUflan at 4377. It's a fun and exciting sport in which Union skiers have ~uickly become not only par- ticipants, but energetic and co!!!petitive ones. Rathwell Saves the Day By ANDREW SALEM After previously beating the North Adams Mohawks 6-4 in · the Achilles rink just .three short weeks ago, the Union Skating Dutchmen barely escaped the North Adams' rink with a 2-2 tie last Thursday. Union played. the first periods ()f hockey much like that of the Canisius contest - completely flat. It appeared that the team failed to get off the bus, falling (J.Uickly behind 1-0 on a North Adams goal by freshman Steve DeMaio at 4:09. After losing the face-of£ in their own end the Dutchmen failed to pick up tbeir men and DeMaio was able to pump a quick shot off, beating Union goaltender Terry Rathwell. The Dutchmen had a hard time . adjusting to the small North Adams ice surface, and arena much like that of AIC where Union was defeated in a terrible showing 7-3 back in early December. The Dut- chmen were unable to get their breakout and mid-ice play going against the . average North Adams squad. They were ()Utshotin the period 10-7. Although the Garnet managed to kill an early trip- ping penalty they gave up their second goal of the evening shortly after 3:32. North Adams' Jim Couturier capitalized on Union's inability to break the puck out. The Dutchmen hustle was present as always but they could not get tbeir systems rolling and were ()Utshot in the period 15-8. In- credible netminding by Rathwell kept the Dutchmen in thegame. . In the third period the Dut- chmen finally decided to wake up and give North Adams both barrels. Perhaps some stern words of wisdom from head coach Charlie Morrison provoked the switch, but nonetheless the Dutchmen were fired up. The extra adrenalin aided Union in finally getting on the board at 2:01. Dan Gould was able to capitalize on a loose puck in front of the Mohawks net and slapped the biscuit passed goalie Mike Pasic narrowing the North Adams ·· lead to 2-1. The goal was assisted by Mark Spease and Scott Manley. Three minutes later Nelson Said tied the game at two .on a powerplay assisted by Gary Temush and Scott Manley again. The boring game quickly became intense. North Adams failed to give up outshooting the Dutchmen once again 16-7. Spectacular saves by Rathwell pushed the contest into over- time .. . The· Dutchmen had their best ten minutes of play in the overtime period but could not put the puck in the net. A brief scuffle which lead to numerous roughing penalties created an exciting three on three situation for four minutes of tile period. Although Union carried the play in OT, both teams had five shots · on goal, making a game total of forty two for North Adams and twenty two for Uniort. The game ended as a disappointing 2-2 tie, moving the Dntrhmen record to 6-8-1 (l..(i-6 road record). Terry Rathwell cer- tainly receives my vote for player of the week for his outstanding performance (95% save percentage). UNION. HOCKE-Y Friday Vs~ Bowdo,in-7:30 Saturday Vs« · Colb.y--1 :oo .. ···

CXVII, No. 14 \The Atrium was the sig11t .for the open forum on pornography last Tuesday night. Pro: Matthews and Wenig. Five Professors Granted· Tenure Approved by Trustees This Past January By ELIZABETH BERLINEit Tuesday's Open Forum Tackles Porn Issue Over 200 Assemble to Hear Pros and Cons In tradition of outstanding faculty here at Union, five professors have recently been gra11ted tenure. Tile first is Professor George Gm-elch of the Antbropology department. He received his BA in 1968 from Stanford Uni-versity and his MA and Ph.D. fron the University of California in Santa Barbara. He has been at Union since 1982 and teaches Peoples and Cultures of the Caribbean and Field Methods in Anthropology. By CHRISTINE HONG News Editor Close to 200 students and faculty crowded into thE College Center atrium to listen and to participate in tl,le Film Com- mittees's open forum on the Feb. 24 screening of a x-rated movie th~s Tuesd;:ly nignt. Student Forum President Michael. IlilJer moderated the twelVe minute panel discussion which was fiolfowed by a open question and answer session. The panel included representatives from both sides of the debate: seniors Artne Carl and Stephanie Hirnak on behalf of those against the screening, See editorial on page 12 and senior Devin WEnig and junior Tim Mattews Oil behalf of those for the screening. Hiller. offered an opening comment reminding those on the panel and in the audience that the purpose of the forum is to examine \whether we as students want to see the movie and thereby choose t() restrict ourselves ... (and not t() confuse it with) ... the isslles of restricting porn()graphic movies in general.\ .Anne Carl gave the opening statement addressing the .ap- propriateness of a pornographic movie on the Uriion College campus. She stated that the platform she represe11ted is not necessarily against por- nography. The issue it is con~ cerned with is that the College's facilities and funds sllould not be used to show a pornographic film. She referred to the 1973 ruling that such scree:nihgs are up to the discretion of the municipality and/or com- Participate in the Poll on Pornography Today and Friday 11·1 in · the College Center munity. What Students Against Pornography is calling for. Carl added, is that the campus community exercise that right by participating in a poll that tackles thatissue. The second half of her opening attacked the general notion of pornography. 1 'Por- nography ·supports organized crime, prostitution, · - clilld pornography.'' She continued by asking whaf do these Effects of pornography say abOut'' ... us as a campus when we decide to play this movie? These movies are discriminatory .and degrading, not only to women, but to men and relations in general.\ She added by citing the Meese Report which sup• ports. th~ link between por- . nography and violence. Carl ended her . statement by referring to the College's promotion of a \healthy and caring atmosphere'' concluding that pornographic films ar'e not conducive to such an en- vironment. Devin Wenig provided. the opening statement from the other half of the debate. He noted that pornographic films have been shown at Uni()n for the past seven years. Futher- more, he added. that the movie in question is a legal fihn. Proclaiming Union's hist()ry as a liberal arts learning in- stitution, this film is a form of expression, stressed Weilig. It has been connsistently pr.pular among students. Moreover, he pointed out that Ivy League schools and .schools of the same caliber as Union are shewing pornographicfilms. The heart of Wenig's argwnent was concerned with the issue of censorship. He asked that students make . up their own minds and not allow those opposed to the screening to decide. Run-Off Elections Friday for Alumni Freshman Reps. 8:J0 .. 4 VOTE! Following tllese opening statements, reb:uttals came from both sid~. Ste:phanie Hirnak confronted the issue of censorship which Wenig had raised. She affirmed that they are not censoring nor at- tempting to do ~o. What they are doing is .asking the student body to take t11e poll. She tackled Wenig's ·IJ()int ()n Union being a liberal arts collEge See PORN, P!l- 4 Pf{)fessor Shm;on Gmelah has bee11 a member of the An- Su TENURE, pg. 4 Joe Biden Reschedules Union Appearance Cancelled first Date Due to Illness By DA VIDGULLIVER . Editor·ill-Chief Senator Joseph Eiden rescheduled !'lis Union speaking appearance f()L\ Mopday night, February 15. He cancelled his date Monday !light because he had a pinched 11:erve in his le.g. Eiden's age11t notified the College Frida:y and shortly thereafter tile ticket booth halted sales. Speakers Forwn co-chairman S1eve Kleib. said that they opte<l. to res<!hedule Biden since they and the school had already made a major 'effort to publid.2e the lecture. \We're leaL\'li11g <~ur lessons,\ Klein said, \)tcause booking political figurefl with Ullreliable schedules had now led. to two cancellations. Gary Hart cancelled his P~rents' Weekend to go hack intctlte campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination. Klein said earlier thai the Forum had been trying to sign political figures because 19821 is an election year. Biden was scheduled to speak on \The Arms Race\ and give an hour-long press conference bef'()re speech. Those plans ha\7e not changed. Riden has served on several Senate · committees concerned with arms reduction and was chairman of the SALT- II delcegation. He was also the chairman of the Senate con- firmation hearings on Judge Bork last year. Klein added tha.t the Forwn is a]s'() looking for more suggestions for speakers for this season and people in· te~sted in the Speakers Forum · should contact him or watch for · announcements of meetings. Photo of the Week: Campus maintenance tends to the icicle formations off tna College Center. February 11, 1988 Freshman Rep. and Alumni Rep. Elected Run-Offs Yet to Come By STEPHANIE JARYNA The freshman class liad a strong showing in the Fresh- man Elections Friday, February 5, when just l.lllder 48% of the freshman class turned out to cast their votes for thier Freshman Represen- tative. John Meier, capturing exactly 40% of the votes of his classmates, captured the position of Fresbman Representative. He will be a voting member of the student Forum beginning today. A run- off election between Michelle Lerner and Dan Waibel who won., . 22% and 20% oil the freshman · votes respectively will occur in.Friday. Cris Hartmann, witmi1Jg a great majority of the votes, bas . been offically elected as one fo the two Alumni Represen- tatives. A second election between Pam Conners and David Cohen will occur on Friday to determine the second elected Alumni Representative. Two votes separated the two candidates and a decision from Paul Riesehick, Director of · Alunmi Affairs, results in a run- off election on Friday. Since there was not a can- didate for Junior Repiesen- tative the junior class will only cast two votes at the remaining Student Forum meetings, ac- cording to the election bylaws. The election board, Mark Webster, Wendy Endress, Colleen Adinolfi, and Jen Scully, was generally pleased with the turn-out of voters and encourages the freslunan and seniors to get out and vote .again on Friday. .. . I. ! .·1

Page 2 CONCORDlENSIS, February 11, 1988 NEWS ANALYSIS Union Can't Help South Africa By Divesting ByDANIELJ.l~ENIRY . The South African question seems to ebb and flow on college ·campu!;!es literally with, the weather; back into prominence with warm spells, and into virtual obscurity with the chilly arctic winds as students retire to their (sometimes too) warm dorm rooms. However, a group of RPI divestniks were able to brave the cold two weekends ago to protest their college's investments in South Africa. (Their protest was held indoors, though.) This begs the question, at least for a reporter, of Union College's investment. As of June, 1986, the College's .position on the issue has changed little. In JW1e of 1985 the Student Forum requested that the Board of Trustees fcrm an ad hoc committee \to evaluate the College's financial policies in dealing with com- panies that have investments in South Africa,\ according to a letter from then Student Forum president, Steven I. Benson. The faculty adopted a resolution commending the students. The committee submitted its report Spring Term of 1986. From the committee's report: \As an investor, Union will urge companies in which it is a shareholder to work against apartheid or withdraw from South Africa. The College had decided, at this time; against CAMPAIGN '88: PART FOUR total vilsotrnent, however, on the gr0ound!B tlnat such a policy would b.e: i~effective in producinll ()lJnstructive change in Soutl! ..Afric.:a, might increase the risk. cof' eo!lowment loss, and Would be a. political tactic inapproplfi~t.e .for this College to employr.'\ V'\ioe President for Instit11.ti oolll Planning Jack MaranYJille CJalled the decision \charact.erietic of the College. It was a vEry careful and reason ell .!Ap:prQach to a serious questiOon,... a still rising but at least for now answered questi()n ... \' ~ice President for Finan~e :aJiiL Administration, John Ha use:r., also commented sayin~ tlhalt in this issue, \Govem:ument action is ap- propriate;. C'()llege action is not approJ>riatE ·especially from endo'Willtemt funds which are the life-bltJod odE the College.\ This issue df ~hether college divestE:t11re is appropriate was brought owt im the committee's report ~BJlec.ially. It was stres~ed tn.:at Union is an educati01nml institution. It was create-d ill -eiucate. It would be highly irnJlL-oper for the college to dhrestt with a political motivatio~~a in mind. Vice Presi!lent Maranville echoed these sarJile concerns, saying, \It's ara .abhorrent policy (apartheid)', and it's especially difficlllt 1l:lt!1CaUSe we're dealing with r a~e relations-- and bigotrJ', illut -we're also dealing with a foreign nation.\ A .. . foreign power, at that. Another important point about the committee is that there was not much interest in it among the students on campus. For some reason, this isn't surprising. Vice Presidents Hauser and Maranville made clear that if there had been any discussion of it, and if there still is today, a response will be given. However. n() guarantee of policy changes can be made. The College, through its in- vestments (and one hopes its leverage) in Soutll Africa seeks change in South Africa. One method, reconarnended by the Trustee's committee, is letters to Sullivan Prindple non., signatories. These companies, wh<l do not abide by Leon Sullivan's Principles for business operations in South Africa, should be subject to divestitw-e. Union~s portfolio of June 1986 contained no firms doing a majority o()f business·in Soutb Africa, and according to Vice President .liauser, this is probably the case today. The administration did not .give an explicit message to its money managers. to search for th.ese companies and immediately ascertain their S()uth African business practices. You ask, does the College kmw for sure if there are businesses using Union's money there? It frankly does not know. Is the portfolio of companies available for in- spection? Yes, indeed, but be prepared for some serious reading. Apartheid in S()uth Africa is among the \Top Ten Forms of Government in History to Hate.\ (It's up there _ with Stalinist Russia, Pol P~t's Cambodia and the State of Massachusetts.) It's sick, and how it can be defended is beyond comprehension. Bllt, it THE people who are saying they '. wanted to restore the greatness The Grand l .. DillllO<rllts, Roman CatbJ!k:s . I OW A \ of America thto~gb moral · • · ' strength.\ Fmale·\cAucusEsj · Toa~eextmt. Roberts<!n'• .. .. campatgn org.amzatwn produced the ·~silent army\ Stunning Robertson V'ictory Over Bush in Caucus Sb-o c:ks Experts What Contributed to Roj,e-r:tson's Success and Bush's Devastati-,~· Deficit? that was the subject of great speculation. &bertson cam- paigners in Iowa consistently promised to demonstrate greater strength thap. they were credited with in public opinion polls. The Virginian demon- strated here that he could pull into the Republican party thousands of voters who bad never taken part in caucliSes before and thousands more who had considered themselves Democrats. By ALEXGARDNER DES MOINES, IOWA Scoring a major upset Monday, political newcomer Pat Robertson demonstrated wide and deep support across Iowa by finishing second in Republican precinct caucus voting and inflicting severe political wounds on vice- president George Bush. Robertson's strong showipg provides the first definitive answer to the question that has hovered over the GOP presidential campaign since he first began campaigning in Iowa in August, 1986. Is Robertson for real? Many people feel his .second place finish here was a fluke as two essential questions remain: Will Robertson's success in Iowa contmue throughout the rest of the country? And what happened to George Bush. Bush's surprisingly feeble showing raised insistent questions about his chances of winning the nomination. Some say his third place finish could be a fatal wound since almost every politician had been describing him for months as the favorite. It will be hard for Bush to describe why he, arguably the nation's second best known politician after the president and the candidate who has essentially been eampaiglling to be tbe :Sllc~Cessor to Ronald Reagen f10rthe last nine years, could 11olt wrin the support of even:an•e!!OtJt of five of his fellow Repuilliicetls in Iowa. But , e:-ve11 before Tuesday night\'s !Wil:!alt showing Bush's lead lo.osed very shaky. NatimnaJ. Satl'veys have shown that a. Jug~ share of his sup- portei'S a:re still not committed to him 3rad 111ight easily shift to Bob ))lole- Dole's campaign belielle:stnis 'Victory here will be enou~h to dislodge many of those w.ratve=ing Bush backers, espeC!ia!ll~ .iir Dole can present himself as nte Republican best positione•d. tll stop Mr. Robert- son's cbt-ve. Wltat. a stadden change in the politLcaJr atlllosphere as Dole is now c!!llin~ himself the can- didate th11t can stop Pat Rohe!rt:Sllln- How does a man whoba:s:meV\er held public office and ,\Wllos~ last occupation was a tel ~·E11J,allg e list cured ~ \beleLv~ers\ of lockjaw, hemor!!lloid.S and other rare diseases., emerge as a threat to the t-wosu::pll()Sed fnnt rWlners, Vice Plesid.i!nt Bush and Senate MinorttJ¥ leader Bob Dole. &-berttSo~Jo, founder of the Chri:stia11. 13roadcast Network and a for:~~~er Baptist minister who resigraed before entering the r:al!e! aop.oke of his victory in Iowa. \We; re;ached out to a broad coalit~tOra mE people- traditional Such a triumph of insurgency may be harder to achieve in the primary states, where organization and motivation coWlt less than they do in I()wa, but Mr. Robertson is clearly a powerful new force within the Republican party, even if his role is imperfectly understood: To the regular.s he is a malign figure. They are convinced. that he cannot win the nomination and fear that be will disrupt their party. But to his sup]Jorters, largely peQple who are 1ired of J»litics as usual, he. is a hero. Most l()wans who backed Robertson cited his honesty and his ad- vocacy of traditional .moral values. But New England and the mid-West are vastly diff11rent political spheres; Many of the affluent Republicans of New Hampshire are liberal on social issues and thw not likely to support Robertson in- his crusade to \restore America's moral strength.\ On March ll in the south, however, where there are >10 primaries· and caucuses,- the former television evailgelist will be on .home ground ideologically Slid stylisticaRy. · is important t() no1let the sheer emotion of thoE issue cloud rational thinki.l!t~ about it. In the black,..s .attempt to gain political power\ they need some sort of power \)a:~e to work irom. Thi::; power ;~J~a~e is labor. American invesiments in South Africa only e<~11stit11te 18 per- cent of the Cl)luntry's foreign investment. (L'\od beSides, how profitable is !I'U.S. investment in South Africa today? ) They generate 90 pe-rce11t ,of their own capital, and c::xpo:rts to boot. They maintai.l!: rigorous trade practices, e;p~ciaHy with Israel. They 11re the world's greatest produe.er of gold, and a major exporter .of diamonds, uranium, chrllrne, manganese, and other miillerals.. U.S. in· fluence, . el:ollomically, is minimal. If a fill divestiture took place, \Wit:b complete economic saJICitions from · both the U.S. and .Uthei countries, a collapse there may ensue. And if a collapse rloesn't ensue, it will certainly make a lot of Afrikaaners. ll,pset at their treatment br ille world com- munity, and .the repression of blacks becoiDes even greater. It is also .OOfficult to com- prehend the lCJgic behind divestiture. Mly. not, while involved in Sl)metbing, stay in it and use your influence to effect poSitive, gradlllal, and peaceful change?· There are many coWltries Wb()Se policies are unpleasant ;t()l American in- terests and i()eoals, but the same thinking isn't being applied to them. With rE~ard tQ the Soviet Union, in foact, divestnik- liberals offer .quite a different approach. GcC'Y Hart's foreign policy rallyimg cry is something called ''enlightened engagement' ' :witl! the Soviets. If the formUla being applied to South Africa vwexet<J be applied acros::; the board, not discriminating between far right and far left .regimes, America would find herself on a pseudo~i8olationist course for disaster. In the Soviet Union and .East Bloc~ a form of the \pass laws'' for all citizens still exists. (The hated Pass Laws have been phased out of existence in S.outh Africa.) There is still prejudice and discrimination of races and religions, incfuding Moslems, Catholics in Ltthuania and Poiand, and Jews throllghout theSoviet Union. Otherfonns of ciyil liberties are still ignored as a matter of standard policy. And dissenters are routinely sentenced tQ psychiatric hospitals for \antbsodal\ behavior. But the answer here {for ·divest-liberal) is to remain in close contact with, and even o11 friendly term-s with t}Jem, in order to somehow overcome the differences. The U.S. government should push, in. diplomatic channels and business circles, for more reforms from the Whites. South African whites should make good on their supposed com- mitment to freedom and equality for the blacks, a11d fast. If gradual and peaceful reforms aren't accepted, the obvious answer is the one suggested by the Mrican National Congress- - \big time reforms,~· i.e. revolution. The ANC says it owes nothing to Mosc()w in return for the gracious ship- ment of weaponry. I'm sure the Kremlin feels diffeiently. Hatred, confusion, and fac- tionalism exist in South African politics in almost co:medic prQportions. The U.S.. has the duty to urge the elimination of the status quo, while av~iding blop~hed. . · , . . . . , , . , Ethics In Politics Last Mond~y, Tuesday, and Wednesday members of Pi Sigma Alph!ll;(N ational Political Science Ho11or Society) con- ducted a &UJJ.Vey within the . College Center on tbe subject of ethics in polf:ti()S. The survey was intende-d to() introduce the · Union studellt IJody to a paneT discussion tfl!lt will begin Feb. 16. The res-ults <Jf the survey were as follows: median sample: 224 (1) TM pmblic bas the right to know everrthing about a political CaJldti<iate's public and private life that may be relevant t() performance in office. agree .(60 !)ercent); not sure (11 percemt}; disagree (29 percent). (2) Candi<lates for President should be lleld to - tougher standards o:f ethical and moral conduct th~o candidates for lower officll (Congress, state legislature, eie.). agree (30 percent); not sure (17 percent}; disagree (63 percent) (3) Some]le{)ple say that only a few politician~ are ever ac- tually dish()llest ()r unethical. Other people say that most politicians are dishonest or unethical at some point in their careers. W'hi8t ·do you think? Iowa ha~ hilrt prominent candidates b smne years and catapulted .tile obscure in tithers. At lea st among the Republican:s, it did both this year. Bus!¥ left the state net dead by 11 bng~hot, but, in words of ol:lil' of llis tacticians, \hurting badly.':P Pat Robertson left as a plle:nomenon. (Choose one) (a) Only a few politicians are actually evern dishonest or Wlethical. (14 percent) (b) A considerable number (but not most) are actually- ever dishonest or l.Ulethical ai some point in their career. (ti8 per- cent) (c) Most politicians are dishonest or unethical at some .point in their career. (28 per~ cent) (4) Does the news media intrude too much into the private lives of politicians by reporting on such matters as marital infidelity, ~College plagiarism, and personal financial irresponsibility? He's too much (43 percent); Depends on the case· ( 46 per- cent); No, not too much (10 percent) (5) How would you charac- terize your response. when you heard that Gary Hart (pence) was re-entering the presidential campaign? Pleased (20 percent); Displeased (29 petcent); Neither pleased not:__displeased, but surprise. ( 34 percent) ; Uninterested in Gary Hart (16 percent) (6) Is Yo\lf confidence in government affected negatively when you hear or read about unethical or immoral behavior by public .officials? Yes, it is affected (62 per- cent); No, it is not affected {38 percent) (7) Please circle ()ne can- didate from the folloWing as your choice for tile next President of the United States. See ETHICS, pg. 4 ,, '

'I CONCOJ,lDJQNSIS.,. F:el1ruary 11, 1988 Page 3 Student Forum at S~mith House Issues Addressed: Pornography, I.F.C. Social Policy, Parking · ,. By STEPliANIE JARYNA alcoholic beverages being Anne Carl, a11d Denise served 1m the College Center Feins()d, repL\\.e:Se·nting the· 'Thursday's Student Forlllli during both alumni and faculty Students Against .Pornography, meeting, hosted at SmUh functions. A motion was :made, addressed questions 'fl'om tile House;· drew a crowd of 35 . whicll ()a:ssed unanimously, that Student Fo~ :and students students. Durmg the meeting, stated that, \The Student present. They stated that the weekly officer reports revealed Forum supports the Inter purpose of their group is to the fonowing activity. Fraternity .Council initiative to prevent Union . ~llege money Jen Scully reported em the investig:ate problems with and public facilities from being activities of the Students Affairs · existmg ~ocial policy.'' used .for tbe soowing of a por· Committee relayi.ng to those · Jean Matus, Vice President nographic film. They also present the SAC's v1ew on the for Firlance for the Forum, statedthat they atthethne had pornographic film issue.. . addressed the issue of club over 200 signatur.es :Df students Though the committee could not fun (ling f~r the Crew Club. It iS who supported th~ir cause. agree on any one opinion of th~ • · possiblE in upcom.lng years the When asked lly David Cohen,· showing of the film, it was · salary«Jfthecrew coach willno Senior RepreseDtative, Denise voiced that the admblistration longer !)e .funded by Students Feinsod answered that :if the did not have intentioDs of Activities. Hopefully, this Film Committee did not deCide 'stepping in' and making a. funding will be taken over by to cancel the ~ll.o'Wing of the decision on whether the fihn the Athletic Department. pornographic film, their would be shown or not. Concern . Mark Webster, Serlior organization W()Wd ultimately was voiced that if. the ad;. Trustee,. had the election .by- bring their cawe back to the ministration did step ill this laws pllssed . ~rQund for ap- Student Forum.. lheir hope is once, where wo\IM 'iri·· · proXim.ately 15 minutes, after that if the Film Committee terference' end. Faculty which they were unanimously doesn't decide to cancel the members ofthe SAC hoped that passed.. _ fiJm, tl:ie Student Forum, as the students on campus would New 'business began with a overseer of the Fi.hn Committee actively voice their opinions · discus~hn of the parking will cancel the 'l>llowing of the concerning the film and that the· · problem on campus. Concerns film. Film· Committee would act were expressed about the According to tile Student accordingly. lackad~isical plowing job Government S.ook, Article 5, The Students Affairs Com- being dt)]l:e on campus this tenn Section 40, • 'All legislative mittee also discussed the and the general lack of parking power conferr~d upon Student College Center accessabilityto spaces. Further discussion led Government Mlsociation shall students. Discussion of the to . reealling of a previously be vested in Stilldent Forwn. College Center continued when voiced solution to the lack of The legislative function of the Marty Cepkauskas, giving the parkin~ space. The solution Student Forum ~hall include but IFC report, cited details of the proposed that freshmen with not belimited to the authority to New Social Policy dx:aWil up by cars would be given specially oversee policy, operation ami the Inter Fraternity Council. In colored registration stickers adQlinistration, of all student an open discussion concerning and 1iV()u1d be required to park in committees.\ .Article 11, Sec- the social alternatives on only the overflow lot behind tion 6, Subsecti()ll tB states that campus, discontent was voiced Richmolid House. the Film Committee is one of about the lack of lounging areas Geti ~Lynn Mackey, Vice. several Stan din~ Committees on the first floor of the College PresideJ~t .of Administration for under the juriscliction. .of the Center and also the questions . the F()~um, is currently com- Student Forum. arose about why the game room piling a memorandum regar- Michael Hiller ended the must be on the· third floor. ding tbe parking proposal. 'Qle discussion statillg, \I have a General cbnsehsus·was that the prop()~al specifies· that the feeling that it .may come down first noor of the college center is overflow l()t behind Richmond to us .... we may~ 'have to make merely Jan Grey's domain, not House lle used for . freslunen the choice.\ The construction continues -.outside the College Center. ,plans for Jacksor~'s Garden in the works. Jackson's Garden's C:onstruction to Be Completed in May By DEBRA B. HONIG Jackson'~~ Garden is covered with snow now, but by May, it will be tlloroughly refurbished both to improve its appearance and to e$tablish a better drainage system. Accordimg to John Litynski, Director of Planning, the gardening work will be ''in the same spirit oft he entry we did a few years ago,\ with three acres of f()rmal and informal plantings and five acres of open meadow and woodlot. The formal garden will be ac- cessible tllrough the College Center because of a brick terrace, which will \wed the garden with the building.\ Within the garden, there will be annual, he-I'b, begonia, and fern arrangements, in addition to a lawn colltained by a circular stone wan. A stone mason is presently constructing the wan beneath a tent. The Schaffer Foundaition has provided the . funds f()r this \Jackson Garden Terrace at the College Center,'' which mmes to an estimated $7,800. The school is seeking donatioms to cover the rest of the work; that estimated cost was not available. Further into the gardens, workers will restore the pergola, perennial, annual, and gazebo arrangements, and will recreatE what was once a rose garden .. In this section, they will upgradethe walks, bridges, and sitting <~reas to reduce further maintemance and to improve appearance. to be invaded by students just parkiag beginning in the school ~------------------------- wanting to play pool. year 1!!88~1989. Mackey has To p~.event serious erosion of the vef!etation, they plan to raise the entire area by two or three f.eet. M.R Litynski said that the garden has been sub- jected t() fluctuating surges of stonn water in the past. A final observation was. noted intentio11s of presenting the that t)Je College·Center seems to proposal to both Security and be dry only for students, and · Safety- and Physical Plant. some students recalled seeing Frnally, Stephanie Hirnak, From The People Who Brought \Pot and Porn\ Crosstalk Presents a discussion on: -AlDS AT UNION! What should we do? When? Wednesday, Februa~ 24th College Center Atrium 8:00 p.m. Refreshments will be served *A follow up regarding the AIDS conference of February 18th THIS WEEK'S EVENTS:~ Thursday, February· 11 11 a.m. College Center Aud. the Minerva Hour presents Prof. Laurence Thomas, Oberlin College, speaking on \Frl&lldshiJ>.\ 4:45 p.m. Steinmetz Hall, Room 106. Physics. Dept. colloquia: Prof. George Pallr!lfld on \Physics and Public Knowledge-:High Tech Modules: 7:30-9:30 p.m. Davidl5on. Mountebanks. 10 p.m.-Midnight. Dutch Hollow Restaurant.·Cabaret. Friday, February 12 Noon- f p.m. College ~nter 4048. Merton I apes discussion with Sr. Joan. 11 :45 a.m.-12:45 p.m. Dutch Hollow. Raifle.ftOr Proctor's tickets. 12:30 p.m. HUM. Women's Studies lectur.&: Prof. Michelle Barale on Pornography as Romance.\ 3:30 p.m. Humanities 213. Philosophlf Da.~t. colloquia: Pro!. Laurence Thomas on \Liberalism and the.Holooaust: .An Essay on Blacks and Jews.\ &;9:30p.m. College Center Atrium. Dutchmen's Night. 7, 9, 11 p.m. CcllegeCenter Aud. Film: Hoi!Jywood Shuffle (also 2113 and 2114). 7:30p.m. Perf. Arts studio. Winter lmprov.:.V'\Iorld Music and Jazz. 9!30..1 :30 a.m. biJtchHollow Restaurant.Va~ntine~s Dance. Saturday, February 13 . ltal. Club and ISl:J Fashion Show, CCCalla1e\t1 7•10 p.m. Film- Hollywood Sll1Jffle, cc AUd. 7, 9~ 11pn1. Sunday, Februarv 14 Aim- Hollywood Shuffle, CCAud. 7, 9, 11 p,rn. 1st Annual WRUC Trivia Contest, 89.7 onradlo dial, 8 p.m. Valentine's Dayl . . · Dr. E.rnest Drucker to Highlight AIDS Conference By R. REED WHIDDEN News: Editor In conjunction with the AIDS conference on Feluuary 1.3, ~the Minerva Hour lecture will be given by AIDS researcher Dr. Ernest Drucker. r>r. Drucker is one of the leading spokesper- sons on this fatal disease that plagues the Onitecl Stated as well as many oiller countries. Dr; Drucker is director of the Division of C()mununity Health of Montefiore Medical Center. At the Albert ll:instein College of Medicine.,. Drucker is on the faculty of the Department 'Of Epidemiology, .and Social Medicine. Dr. Dr11ckerhas been a member of the national board of Educators for Social Responsibility and chairman of SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 11:00 - Mernculal Chapel Keynote Speaker Ernest DruckiH, Ph. D Prof. of Epidemiolo{JY/~ocial Medicine Albert. Ein:steih College of Medicine \Epi<!Emiology of AIQS: Personal Risk and Social Conse(iuences\ . SEMtNARS (College Center) ·1 :00•2:00:, A-uditorium Roy Stevens, Ph.D Director Laboratory for Diagnostic lmmtJnology ~. Y.S. Dept. of Health \The AIDS Virus: .Biology &Serology\ 1 :00..;2:00, Room 409 Charles Eisn~lJgle Director :NYC Office of AIDS Discrimination Issues NY$ DiVision of Human Rights ~AIDS Discrimination in the Monte:fiore Symposium on AIDS. He bas also been serving on the AIDS and Hwnan Rights Project at MedecinsDu Monde. Drucker~s lecture on AIDS focuses on \Epidemiology of AIDS: Personal Risks and Social Consequences.'' In a previous Concordiensis article on AIDS, a statement was made concerniilg testing at the Colleale. Sandy Mosher, director ()f Health Services, corrects: \We do not perform (the mv ~ntibody) test at the Health Seivice. Colleges have been advised by the American College Health Association and the AIDS Council not to un- dertake tbis screening test.\ However', information on educatio11, as well as lodll sources for testing is available. Employ-ment, Housing, Public Accommodations, Education, and :Disability Provisions\ and Jean OtJarrier, Esq. Assistant CounseiN.Y;S~ Dept. of health \AIDS & Public Health Legal Issues\ 1 :IJ(l-2:0.0, Room 410 Thomas R. Davis, D.Min., Ph.D Chapfain and Asst. Prot. of Religiort Skidmore College \AIDS and Ethical Issues\ and David M. Liebers,. MD Infectious Disease Physician Ellis Hospital \Treating AIDS Patients\ 2:()0e~:OO, Room 302 James Lambrinos, Ph.D Director Healtll ~ystems Administration G.M.I., Union College \AIDS and Economic Issues\ The ]>lans also include the establishment of a new main- tenance center, which will in- clude a greenhouse, and the restormion of the evergreen wildflower, and shrub gardens. Captain Isaac Jackson, a Math a!ld Natural Philosophy professor at Union, first developed the garden in 1830 as a ther:apeutic measure. This was a recommendation from Dr. Nott for . the · then ailing Captaln Jackson. A study conducted about two years ago, reported that the .school sched11led 84 functions ac- commmdating about 7,000 people within a four month period. Moreover, d11ring the peak season, an average of 1,000 people per week come to see the annual and perennial arrangement~. and David H. Shippee Program Administrator AIDS Treatment Center Albany Medical Center \A Designated AlDS Treatment Center: An Administrative Perspective\ 2:00-3:00, Room 409 Cbarles Eisnaugle 2:110·3:00, Room 410 Thomas Davis David liebers 2:0()·3:00, Auditorium Roy Stevens 3:1J0-4:00, Audllorlum Panel Discussion 4:00·5:00 Rece:ption College Center Atrium I r ,.

g a: \!::! z ~( (J); fa· Board of Trustees OfHci ally Completes Tenure Process for Five Professors Arts, Anthropology Gain Two Each 0 t; Continued from paga 1 At Tuesday's Open Forum, one of the questions fielded .from the floor came from Edd·ie Remy, who drew comparisons between Apartheid alld pornography at Union. 5: thropology department since 1981. She received her BA in 1969, her MA in 1971; and her Ph. D. in 1974 from the University of .Southern Califorinia at Santa Barbara. She instructs a class in People and the Cultures of the Pornography Issue Heightens Campus Awareness Continued from page 1 rebutting tl1at she doubted whether s11cb an institution is dedicated to promoting child pornography or rape.. She further added that there are reputable collilges that have cancelled pornqgraphic films from its movie schedules - for example George Washington, Albany, and :Michigan State. In rebuttal to Himak's and Carl's statements, Tim Mat- thews returned to address the topic of what is fact and what isn't. He noted that the por- nographic film had been con- sistently sh()wn the past seven years sincE students have supported it consistently. \Moreover there is no con- clusive proof that these movies perpetuate the myth of the 'women who can't say no.\ He discredited the Meese report, which Carl had mentioned in her opening statement, directing the audiences at- tention to two 'contributors' to the Meese repent who, following its publication, refuted the report's final conclusion. Matthew's con- cluded by . parenthetically asking any()ne to cite one in- cident that's come out of Union showing a pornographic movies these past soeven years. Closing comments came from both sides summarizing the inner issues that the panel had touched upon. They were im- mediately followed by questions from the floor. The questions and comments fielded fmm the floor added several new dimensions to the . debate. A total of ap- proximately twenty of those in attendance were a:ble to par- ticipate in the discussion by posing questions to the panelists and offering their own com- ments. While at one point of the session Michael Hiller com- mented that most of the questions were directed at Carl and Hirnak, the range of questions were varied. Significant aspects brought up were: the campus's overall increase awareness as a result of the pornography film's in- petus to initiate discussion and create a dialogue; the possibility of using the por- nographic film for educational . purposes; censorship and its relation to the recent Supreme Court decision concerning high school newspapers; the threat that these films impose on women versus the threat of censorship; pornographic films as a possible source of violence versus other sources as parties and excessive drinking; and the issue of whether or not rape occurs on the Union College campus and its relation to pornography. _ The poll will be held today and Friday from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on the first floor of the College Center. The results of the-poll will be taken as a strong recommemdation by the Film Committee; however, regar- dless of poll results, the ultimate decision rests in the Film Committee's vote next week. Ethics ... Continued from page 2 Caribbean and, spring term, explores the topic of Race and Ethnic Relations. l'bere are also two newly tenured professors in the Arts department. Professor Martin Benjamin came to Union in 1979 after earning his BA in 1971 at the Sate University of Alabny. He insturcts both beginning and advanced · classes in photography. Professor Hilary Tann, also of Arts, became a vital addition to the music department in 1980 after first attending the the music department in 1980 after first attending the University of Wales and ultimately earning her Ph.D. from Princeton University. She teaches Rudiments of Music and Elementary Counterpoint, as well as leading the Union College Chamber Orchestra. Finally, Professor Steven Sargent of the history depart- ment has also been granted tenure in 1987. He joined the Union faculty in 1982 after earning his BA and MAin 1975 at the University of Massachusetts and his Ph.D. in 1982 from the University of Pennsylvania. He teaches courses on Medieval Europe and English History in 1688. The concept of tenure in- cludes that the college extends a lifetime contract to a faculty member of exeepti()nal stan- ding. Therefore, barring crisis of the college, a drastic change in the curriculum, ()f an in- fringement on moral or ethical standards by that faculty member, the individual is guaranteed a permanent position of the Union College staff. This protects the academic freedom of the Interfraternity ·council Addresses Problems With Social Lure By TA-t\ TIBBETfS Have y()lu ever wondered what other ;1Jmi<Jn students do on a typical Friday or Saturday night? Prollallly not. Chances are that rna.l!y<Jf youare among those ' whCI venture out to fraternity !Parties every weekend. After all, how many times can a :Sane person watcb . the same mo'Vie over a period of . three dayS'? A recen1 proposal by the Interfraternity Council (IFC) . addresses tim :problem.. Due to · legal restrletions and campus reconstruetll()n 1 . social life· at Union has ICbanged. The Skellar is no longer- ;a place where aU can hang tntlt and meet people, with the 21 eltib on. weekends. The College Center has become a place fol' tb.e administration, lacking a.n infornial at- mosphere ·~llere students can relax with friends. Therefore, the tende11c;yr for students to spend tb.eir weekends somewhere where they can meet peo(ll'€~ talk, dance, and enjoy thlemselves is being sought, amd is found in fraternity pa:rties. This results in overcr·oiVding, breaking in, and ge11erally unbearable conditions a:t many of thesE. parties. \Though the ad· ministratfi.o.n attempts to alleviate this problem by putting a 1irnit on the nwnber of people· VW:llo may be let in, crowding isstill a problem. Another problem results from those whto eannot tolerate the above no:ted circumstances but are of leg~tl.age to drink. These people oftea travel to bars in. Saratoga . ;and Albany for the evening. Some· drive- home while intox;:icated. ' With these in mind, the IFC has propOtsed some solutions. . The first is to place pool tables, ping-pon~ tables and videe» machines.in the College Center. Not only would these attract students to the building, but videomachines would also yield a profit. The second idea is to use the atrium as a 'late night dance club on weekends, With dim lights, a semi-formal dress code,. and music provided. by a ; Marty Cepkauskas, IFC · President. · DJ, .students would find a ge.nial environment, and would lift some of the burden off the Greek system. Alcoholic beverages could be served, with hired personnel to check IDs and to handstan1p those old enough to drink. With a similar · drinking policy, the Skellar could again be open to all Union students. This would allow people the .opportunity to socialize at places other than fraternity parties. This proposal has been presented to the adl:ninistration for their consideration. The IFC's initiative to investigate the problems of the present social policy has been sup- ported by the Student Forum. Students and the administration . must work together to promote a social enviroiuriimt · ac- . ceptable to all. If you have any ideas or comments, please contact Marty Cepkauskas, president of the IFC, Evan Pic~us, chairman of the Social Policy Committee, or an IFC representative. I Melinda Phillips, Watson Winner, to Speak on \Political Theater\ Dem4!crats Bruce Babbitt ( 1 percent) Michael Dukakis (17 percent) Richard Gephardt (3 percent) AI GQre ( 1 percent) Republican George Bush (18 percent) Pierre Dupont U[ (2 percent) AI Haig (0.6 percent) professor, and insures a quality . institution. Melind~ Phillips, '86 will bE on c.ampus Wednesday, February 17 to discuss her experien~es during her Watson Fellowsi!Lp year. Her Watsoll proposal 'vas titled \Political Theater-: Mexico, Argentina, ColUiilbiia.,. Peru.\ She will also speak of 11er year at 8:00on tb:e 17th. Susan Knoll is currently in Thailand living and working with women textile workers, and Dan Gordon has been in Japan, and is now in Cuba learning about cultural variatons in the game of baseball. This years finalists from Union are Sarah Bit- tleman, Maggie Boitano, Vince Nicotina and Eddy Remy. This year's winners will be an- nounced by the Foundation next month. Gary Hart (3 percent) Jesse Jadson (2 percent) Paul Sirnm (6 percent) Mario Cu()roo (2 percent) Sam NW111 (0.6 percent) Robert Dole (20 percent) Jack Kemp (1 percent) Pat Robertson ((),6 percent) Don't Know (22 percent) Thanks to all who par· ticipated!!! Nassau/Paradise Island 9.~ ~\~ CANCUN, ME·XICO ~~-~-,., ~ ~ \'~~ \SPRING BR.EIIK II ~~~,(> llBIUJAI(Y 27 - APRil /0, 198 8 ~ WEEKLY DEPARTURES FRoM $ 2 7 9. 0 0 COHPLEIE PACKAGE INCLUDES< * .POlJfltHRIP AI'R FROt1 .NEW YORK, PHILADELPHIA AND SOSfOU TO NASSAU/ PAI1nD!SE: ISLAND 1\HD CANCUN, HEKICO. OTiiER CITIES AVAILI'I8LE. • RO~~DTR!P TRANSFERS FROH AIRPORT TO HOTEL. ~ 1 ~!GHIB HOtEL ACCCHHOOATIONS. '\ tlELCOHE R\111 SWIZZLE AT HOST HOTELS (NASSAU). * 'Oil£ tlOVR RIJH (NI'>SBAU) OR lEClUlLA \l:AHCUtl) PARTV, • lH~E!! ,J-iOUR CnUt9E HITH UNL!t1~·1ED R\J11 PUNCH AND CN DOARD. ENTERJAJ1'111ENT (~~99AU\PARADISE ISLAND). * ltt•EE BERCH PARTIES (ONE WITH FREE LUNCH) HIJSIC A>IO AO TIVITIES (IIASSAU) * EKCLUSlVE FREE ADt119SlON fD lHE PALACE, WAI.ERLDO AND lt1E DRmtBEAI CL ~B ( tiASSI\U) • Nomination for tenure is a long and involved process, beginning with a six~month probationary period of teaching at Union, a department evaluation, and appointment of an ad hoc committee to gather student opinions and read the published materials of the candidate. This data is then reported to the Faculty Review Board who will make a recommendation t() President Morris and the Board of Trustees, the two ultimately deciding factors in who will receive this honor. Watson. Fellowships are awardel(l to graduates from approX!Lmately 50 small liberal arts colileges by the Thomas J. Watson !J.ii'Otundation (fmmder ()f IBM). EaC:ll award is for $13,00G to fund a full year of trav-el anywhere outside North Amel\i<!a to .pursue any pro jed or idea- ·Tvvo rnen1bers ~f Union's (!}ass. of 1987 wo11: Jhe Hair Studio Melinda's talk would. be .of particular interest to any Junior (·or Sophomore or Freshman) who trunks that shE ot he ·would like to apply. The application process begins in the Spring of your Junior year. 374-0351 557 Nott St. * C~lLEGE HEE~ PROGRAMS SV THE BAHI'>HAS TOURIST OFFICE. • O~·LQCATlO~ PROFESSIONAL lOUR ESCORT, FOR MORE INFORMATION OONTACTI Hair and Tanning Studio AI.'IERICAN TRAVEL SERVICES, INC. 456 GLE~BROOK ROAD STAMFORD, CT. 06906 H10CJ.·231-D113 or 12031987-3330 \.,~~~ORGANIZE A SMALL GROuP AND EARN A FRE£ TAIPII PERM SPECIAL $40.00 WITH' FREE MANICURE. Unisex, Walk-1 n,s Welcorna TAN,NING 100 Visits For $79.00 I' NAIL TIPS·- Regularly $45,00 Now $2~ .. 95 tANNING CAJ'tl:f;IIE SHAREP.$Y TWO. PEOPLE · , I

CONCORDIENSIS, February 11~ 1988 Talk of the Town Concortliensis recently asked: ''Do you think students wilt benefit from tuition increases?\ Pbotos and Interviews bJ Stan Kitzinger \F()r $18,000, movies should b& tree.\ Lavren Karp '91 They've been raising tuition for all four years I've been here and· aU I've gotten is Carnegie Mall.\ Diwakar Jagannath '88 . . . For an extra· $2,000 they should put the. narne Carnegie back an tile front of the building. Zoe Fete.rson '90· Share & .Share Alike :BySUS~NSHAFFER Ass()ciate Features Editor Li\ling off-campus must. have its advantages b~tt it can't CQrnplete with the ~eonvenience ofli\7ing in the dorm. Sure, one canfind housing close enough to carnpus and·· m.ost enjoy the waJk: but how can :people sur- viY\e without the more-than- willing•to-help-you neighbors wllieh inhabit a dormitory flOI()l'\? V()U wake up one morning with an awful hangover only to fin.d ·Dut you nor any of your rooll1lllates has any asprm, so you trek across the .hall to be offered your choice of Ty-lenol, Advil, Bayer, Excedrin an(! even Atka-seltzer. You bOJrl'\ow two tylenol with the hopes that you will soon feel better when you realize that your stomach is also bothering you, so once more you go across the hall and are offered Pepto- Bismo, Exlax, and Turns. You opt for the Turns and as the day goes by and your symptoms do not clearup, this is when you realize that you have the premenstrual blues. Once more you meekly ask for help and are offeredmot:rin. Finally, you feel better! Upon feeling okay, you begin to crave popcorn and tea however, your hotpot has deposits in it and you used your last tea bag yesterday, Next door you know that you can borrow a hot pot and down the hall someone will have tea bags.. Easy enough, you have your own popcorn popper which you lent however to someone Albany_ Catholic Bishop Delivers Homily, Appears· As Guest of Newman Club By DAVID GULLIVER Editor-in·Chief The young adult generation's a:p;atll.y toward others in need wa:s one theme to11ched on last SUllday; the Speaker was Bishop of the Albany Diocese, - H~ward Hubbard. The Bishop was the guest of Union's ·Newman Club last Sllnday and delivered the l:aomily . at St. John the Evangelist Churcl1' s 7,30 mass. He was speaking on the larger theme of the roles of sE!rvice and pr.ayer in the Chri..stian religion. He said that it was not a rne~tter of- \either or; but in· stead, both and.'' In his homily, be recalled the g()spel reading, iVbere Jesus spem time helping people and then Tetreated into t:h.e desert to pra:Y- The Bishop cited a recent study where under 50 percent of college graduates believed they had \any responsibility to reach out to those in need.\ He added that there was a kind of , \dissatisfaction with causes\ and a tendency toward the \pursuit of personal goals solely.\ \We haye become a nation of spectators,\ he said; \content to let others bear the responsibility we should take ourselves.'' In discussion at the Newman Club reception, Bishop Hubbard said that young adults' at- tachments to causes was of a fleeting nature; he noted events like Live Aid that worked as a temporacy measure but were quickly gorgotten. He added, however, that he was optimistic despite the trends revealed in recent studies. Public Speaking Review By CYNTHIAPANTAZIS The annual Union College P11blic Speaking contest was J!'riday Feb. 5, i.n the College <!enter dining hall. There were 1welve finalists in this years <(!On.test; eleven were male, one female. Each con:testant drew a quote and was then given thirty seconds to formulate ideas. Tiley were then given three minates to speak:. The panel of judges was composed of two students and two ad- Ininistrators. Elach contestant was evaluated in four c;ategories including creativity, sllbstance, · coherence, and d:.~livery. ' ' All of th'e speakers were c:reative, how'ev-er, many felt tllat the succ'!ess of each s.:peaker's delivel')i' depended on llumor rather .than substance - ~ and coherence. Each ·speaker must be given credit for the ability to speak spontaneously and clearly in a short time and before a large audience. At the end of the evening Dean of Students Joseph Mammola was provided With an opportunity. to enlighten the audience with his Public Speaking Ability. This enabled students to see the lighter side of one of the more influential administrators. Ultimately the winner was announced. Charlie Slotnik ('89), won $150 for first place, followed by Tiin Mat- thews ('89), who won $100 for seond place. In third, winning a $75 dollar gift certificate to our campus store, was Tom Coleman. This was the third year of the Public Speaking Contest and it was quite suc- cessful. C()IW the hall. ITherfore when y()ll go to ask for it bac:!k you e~lso tale one of their bo'll'ls. Al3 you we~J:k back to your room you trunk to yourself ''Wow, What a friendly group we hilve on our haUl\ No one appears to;lle a mooch si:nce the motto .is. always - share and shar:'e .alike! E-veryone !Contributes something, wbetber it be t~ewriters, irons~ p()pcorn · poppers and cCJmpmters, these are iust some of the appliances that are borrcwed and lent. Selt, coffee,tea and milk are easily lent and ·Other foods are easily taken. Pain relievers, vitamins, antacid, and Band- aids are eomrnonlly needed. T'b.ose with foutons rarely see tilem, for they are constantly l>·eing lent to neig-ltbors with g;uests. In rooms where long clistance relationsllips thrive, tile phone i$ C()nstllntly in use tllerefore roommates use the ptb.ones of neighbors. There are tllose who came to school prepated for everyt.:bing, so you kn.ow where to go to borrow a hammer, nails, batteries and a needle and thread. most people· will have tape, scissors and ather school pr()ducts but thlngs do run out. Nothing is worse than running out c:f toothpaste in the morning or even sham- poo, but if you live in a dorm these things are easily ac- cessable. Getting stack in your apartment wit.ll a wet head and a blown out hairdl'yer -can be wery frustrating, b11t not if you liive in a dorm. So tile ne:xt time tllat you need to borrow something, either smile at the . thought that you c:!an go next cdoor or stamp yottr feet with frustration. 'The choice is :YOurs!!! Sena a Ctuu{y(jram · for o/a{entine 's ']) ay During the \Week <If · February 8-13, ft. E Pi will be selling Cand;J Grams at Carnegie and West. It's only $1 and all proceeds go to charity. ·I Just give us tile name 'and camp-.Js a(.ldress of · Your Valentine pi\IS a ; . brief note ami. we'll do the rest. ••• !For e>rt(y $1 ies a great fjlft for a (jreat Ca:use •• ., ••• No., it's tea much to go here anyway. A $16,.000 vacation is plenty. Bob & Jef-f '90 Yes, we can now print up another order of T-shirtt:>.; \18 dollars all you c.an drink\. Mara Berger 'i!O Welcome Uniori's Future By MARY BETH MANNING It's senior year in high school, you've received ·information from every college in the country, and you've applied to your favorites. Now how do you decide where to Spend the next · four years of your life? The only way to really learn about any college is to experience it first hand. You must meet the professors, talk to students, eat the food and read the college newspaper. That is what fifty prospective students arriving today are here to do. The Scholar's Program, which was set up by Susan Hartley and Ann Fleming of the Admissions Office and a committee of Union students, offers promising Union ap- plicants a chance to spend two days on campus. Each visitor will be assigned a host who'll act as their guide and provide a place for them to spread their sleeping bags. Today, the students will at- tend a panel discussion entiUed ''Academic Opportunities at Union.\ Professors Sc.:itt, Nichols, Taylor, and Craig will discuss their perceptioiLS df liberal arts at Union. Tollight, the perspective students will attend informal presentati()ns by various student activitiesin the College Center. Later, they'll attend Ca!Jaret, featuring campus talent, in- cluding the infamous foUl\ !)art men's singing group (with tuxedos! ) , the Dutch Pipers. Friday, the students will be able to attend classes of theil\ clloice and will have the afternoonfl!ee to go to lab~ & talk to professors &students. On behalf of the Con- cordiensis staff, I'd like to welcome the prospec-tive students. We hope they ~njoy their college experience and realize how much Union ha:s to offer. English Dept. Announces Writing Contests Writing at Union can be profitable for winners of.. con- tests announced this week by the English Department. Posted aroli!ld campus are details for five writing com- petitions which wiU award prizes ranging from $100 to $1,000 at Prize Day _in May. \A Prize like that can raise your spirits and bolster your bank account,\ said Professor Alan Nelson, who is in charge of administering the contests and arranging the committees of judges. \We hope that students with possible entries will get into action, so we urge faculty and friends to encourg:;~e them to send their work.\ One of the competitions was started only last year, but all the others are long-established traditions at Union. Three of them emphasize \Creative\ writing -fiction, poetry, or the informal essay. These a:re the Yudis Prize, for the best ])rose fiction; the prize for J)oetry awarded each year at Ulli~n by the Academy if .American Poets; and the Shocket ?rize, for excellence in cree~tive writing. Two awards are made for non-fiction wrirting: th-e Van Orden Prize is for \the fl'esh- man student who exc-els in English composition,\ and the Allen Essay Prize is me.ant for the senior who writes tbe best non-fiction essay. \Writing often comes from work done for classes, said Prof. Nelsoin, \but it certainly need not.\ He added tllat some students assume that the contests are meant for English majors, but that \winners come from all parts of the ca:mpus.\ The money for pri2es is sometimes divided, t() allow recognition of secCJnd:. place winners. He said. that hE hoped the faculty would urge tlleir students to submit their work. \And sometimes a roommate gives a helpful push,\ he added. The deadline for subllli~sions is Wednesday, March 31J, which is the first day of the Spring term. All entries must beturned in with a pseudonym, ac- companied by a sealed envelope revealing the writer \s real name. Further details may be had from Prof. NelS()Il in Hurnanitites 210, or by pllone at Ext. 6207. · I ' ., ,,

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS; Febru.(lrJ 11, 1~88 Out To Eat with Hersh & Robe By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS Luigi's Resta11l'ant Two years ago, our good friend Craig Ratner recom- mended Luigi's· as a good Italian restaurant. Frankly, we were unimpressed. Now, as re~aurant critics with open mmds, we have decided to give it another chance. was dry and cramy on top and the ricotta cheese was very pasty. Hersh tried it, and referring to the cheese, said, ''I would expect window caulking to taSte like that.\ At least tbe portion was generous. By the time ()llr plates were cleared, we were very full, but unsatisfied. Hersh summed: it up by asking, \We don't have to have dessert, do we?\ The service at Luigi's left nothing to complain about, our waitress was quick and cour- teous. Based on our 1~10 point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave Luigi's a 4% and Hersh rated it a 4. Luigi's Restaurant 1125 Barret Street Schenectady, New York 382-5429 Price, with tax, before tip: $26.00 FEATURES Attention Seniors By LISA CHEilANDE Seniors, aren't you beginnin,g to think about graduation? Even worse, ar·en~t you beginning to think aooilt what you are going to do after graduation? Now is the time to start planning for the future·! But now is also the time for a little retrospection- a quick glance back at the past three and a half years of your life. The first image that probab~y ·comes to mind is the 103 weekends you spent here so blasted that all you remember is :that awful hangover you had when you woke up on Sunday afternoon. Despite popular belief, the past three and a half years have been more than. one big PAR- TY, they have been all \educational\ ex:perience yoa will never forget (and I don't mean an education in the ~generic sense of the word.) Classes are an important part of a college education, but face it, there is a lot more that comprises our · education than the three classes we take ·a semester! The \college experience\ lit;S in the professors · who Spend elrtra hours. after class explainmg a calculus problem, the ex• citement in the stands of Achilles Rink when the Skating Dutchmen are ahead by one goal, the friends. we make, and the activities we participate in. So, now I ask you seniors to think about, in Abraham Lin· coln's words, not wbat your College owes you, but what you owe your college. This year, for the first time ever, the senior class is getting together to organize a senior class gift. It is not the first time ,~:o:,. _·_~:~.:~,~~ ·_;. $· The Class Gift Committee Luigi's is located on Barret Street, only a few blocks from Union. We found the at- mosphere at Luigi's difficult to pin down, as we sat in the middle of a large room with two different halves. One side, decorated with pictures of tigers and dogs, and with top- forty music in the background, was basically tacky. The other side, which may have been an addition to the restaurant, was decorated ~much more tastefully, except for its gaudy red curtains. Luigi's also has a separate barroom and a downstairs dining room. We were pleased with our bread, which was hot and plentiful. Unfortunately, the garlic bread we later ordered was not as good; Hersh felt it was overly greasy, and I thought it left a bad taste in my mouth, even for garlic bread. The salads, which were in· eluded with our l:!ntrees, were also disappointing. They were fairly small, Hersh's Italian dressing was extremely salty, and my Rocquefort tasted like little more than mayonnaise. Violence In Relationships the senior class has given a gift to the college, but it is the first time the class has .organized a structure for how they' are going about doing so. . Under the direction of Carl Scribner, the Director of Student and Young Alumni Programs, the planning of tbe Senior Class Gift Fund is already under· way. Four chairmen have been chosen by the Development Office to represent the class on the· drive committee: Marjorie Hoffer, ,Steve Klein, Gina Mancuso, and Erika Rauscher. They, in turn,. have selected eight team captains who will each choose six or sev:en class leaders to be on their recruiting team. This sounds like an ex:tremely complex hierarchy, but the theory behind this organization is simple. Each of the team members asks four or five seniors to make a small donatton of five dollars or more to the fund until every ·member of the class is solicited. •This form of person·to-person communication is far more personable and preferable to a mass mailing asking for a donation. The kick-off'date for the drive is February 16 and will run until March 4. With a donation of five dollars or more, you can receive a senior class t- shirt. In fact, an alumni has donated enough money to cover the cost of the t-shirts. All proceeds. then, will go to the annual fund. The ultimate goal of the drive is to obtain 100 percent participation of the senior Class. Though the money donated will 'be given to the Annual Fund, a fund which is used towards scholarship money, books, lab equipment and across the board expenses, the chairmen are not looking to raise money. Chairperson Marjorie Hoffer summed up the drive best, \We hope to get the e~tire senior class donating for the sole purpose of building class unity.\ Five dollars is not asking for very much when you take into retrospect how much money is donated by the al~i every year to guarantee scholarship money and to maintain student services like -the· library, housing, and the gym. . Luigi's offers a wide selection of Italian dishes, as well as hot sandwiches and steaks. Hersh chose the veal parmigiana with a side order of spaghetti with tomato sauce. Although both were very large, they were, again, a letdown. The spaghetti, which was actually linguini, was little better than that served at Union. The veal was of low quality, under cooked, and tough. There was also way too much breading and not enough tomato sauce. The chee~Ie was okay, though. I ordered lasagna and had sausage at extra cost. The two links of sausage were tasty, with the hint of spice that I like. On the other hand, the lasagna THE TYPING PLACE •Professional •Experienced •Timely THE PLACE TO TAKE ALL YOUR T'fPING NEEDS 399-0980 STATE OF THE ART EQUIPMENT 10o/o DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD! By vm.GINIA MELlO Last Wednesday, February 3, Val Fahey, counselor at SUNY · Albany and Liz Marcolini, Assistant Director of Residence Life at SUNY A presented a colloquium on \'Violence in Relationships''. During the program some very important and surprising facts surfaced, many of which the student body should be aware. Dating violence, the violation of your physical integrity by a dating partner, is barely recognized and is becoming an increasing problem. Research indicates that up to one half of college students experience dating violence. Further, only one half of these students ter- minate the relationship and most continue to have an .average. of three of these relationships throughout college, and have the same sort of relationship with their spouse. What are S()me signs of dating violenc~'? First, poor com- munication skills or pmblem solving skills. Many people assume that as a n()rmal mature individual one can sit down and solve problemS. This is far from the truth. Failure to express yourself can lead to constant misunderstandings and a lack of knowledge an how to negotiate and talk throUgh problems. Secondly, you and your partner may depend on each other socially, emotionally, physically, and economicany up to a point of the exclusion of others. This can lead to possessiveness and ex:cessive jealousy. Stress is another factor, an.d quite often the use of alcohd and drugs goes hand in hand, catalysing the use ~f violencE. As mentioned before, some people go on after their ex- periences in Gollege to a marital relationship including violence. Children resulting from tb.ese marriages ·use their parents as role models. Finally, if one pers()n dominates the relationship in every way withoUt considering his or her partner's feeling$, feelings of resentment, fol.\' example, can ex:plode inti:> a violent conflict. What can you do if you see this happening~ First and foremost,. if the fiflbt becomes violent or looks potentially violent, don't get involved. Get help. Distract their attention. If you are in a position of authority, identify ·y-ourself a11d ask them to leave. If you are in a dorm ask them to keep it cbwn because you are studying or sleeping. Slam a d«>or, hell, just don't intervene directly. Domg this may result in anotller beating later on for the persoll you are trying t«> help beca'US~ their partner thill.ks that be ot~ she has been humiliated. Further, if you d() try to talk t<t someone with this problEm., don't tell him that he has a problem. Talk abollt the relation!lbip, ask if tht!Y' are satisfied with the way tbiaMs are going; be understanding but make the person think about what he wants from his partner. This iS a sensitive subject to talksabout because some people do equate violence with love. \We're only fighting because we care, we love each other.\ The longer tbe relationship has lasted; the less likely people are to get out of it and the more cyclical the violence. If you see this happening to your friends, or to yourself, do something about it. Talk to your friends, talk to a counselor, but don't ignore it. Thanks to A WARE and Phi Gamma Delta for sponsoring this program. The chairmen are hoping seniors will donate $5-$10 of their freshman deposit. Seniors, this your chance, as a class, to show your appreciation to the school. If Union has meant more than one big party to you (even if it hasn't) give to the Senior Q.ass Gift Fund. Don't let future classes miss out on the same \college experience\ .you had. Black History Month By'CRAIG SUMMERS \Perfection Personified\ Paul Robeson (April 9, 1898- January 23, 1976) If you were to judge by the news media of the 1920's and 30's, the United States was a totally white supremacy. The 'Negro' race was hardly recognized as a vital part of society. Just about the only time a 'Negro' was mentioned was when he dangled high and lifelessly at the end of a rope. Ttiis news accompanied by photographs of Black bodies being mutilated while cheering White crowds watched;. aps peared all too often. This was their form of degradation to the Black race. But one sta1· shone so brightly that the entire world had to recognize bini, and pay homage to him. The shining light was Paul Robeson, a man \:ho excelled in everything be did. He was an All~American football player, alwyer, scholar, orator, classical baritone, a Shakespearean actor, linguist and statesman. . As he rose higher and higher m status and became idolized by the world, he never forgot his oppressed Black brethren. He made their interest and welfare first in life. Robeson refused to perform before segregated audiences, and turned down lucrative filin offers when he felt they denigrated the Black image. He became a labor activist and walked on their picket lines. He championed Black culture and its ties to Africa at a time when most Black artists rejected it. He suffered at the bands· of the United states government when it effectively blocked all .. avenues for ·him to perfonn. ·' 'I

CONCORDIENSJS, .February 11, 1988 ·Page 7 A Legal Brief for Valentine's Day By TlNASCIOCCHElTTI It's almost Valentine's Day. A day for lovers and romance. Well, this legal brief is about what happens when love goes sour. We all know the scenario: Two people meet, they fall in love, they decide to get married, they become engaged,· he buys her· a ring (this is the important part) and everything seems great. 'rhings aren't always so great thQugh, and your first engagement isn't always long lasting. The lovers have an arg!11llent, they decide that they aren't right for each other, they wonder what they colil.d ever possi:bly have seen in the other person,. and the engagement is off. Now the big question is .. ;does the girl get to keep the ring? You know, that one and a half caret beauty. She's grown attached to it, can't part with it (and realizes its value) and he doesn't want her to have something that he gave her only because they were going to get married (and realizes its value). Guess what girls, contrary to popular belief, the ring is not a gift given to a girl that becomes hers to keep forever. According to N.Y. State law. an engagement ring or a gift, given in consideration for a promise . to marry, is a conditional gift which transfers property as a pledge based on the condition subsequent of the marriage. Tile law stipulates. that in the ev~nt the engagement is br(}ken, \ th~11 any property pledged ·as an engagement present must be ·returned. This must be done .regardless of who is responsible for the break-up. So, when your engagement Is br<!ken, if your boyfriend has given out a ring or any other gift given in consideration for a promise to :marry, you must ret:urn it. If youreally can't part with the ring/gift or you've lost it, rui.ned it (per :haps in anger), given it to your cat as a new toy, ordriven over it 'a few thousand times, you must repay your ex- the value of the property. He has a cause of actjon for in eitller conversion (the value of the property), or replevin (the return of the property). It is important to realize that this law does not apply only to W()J}len and only to engagement riags. The law encompasses any gift, by either party, given in consideration for a promise to marry. You could possibly avl()id having · to return the property by asking your fiancee to put in writing that the gift is really being giv-en as a gift and no::t iri contemplation of marriage (kind of a pre- Betrothal agreement). Howe\\er, ·this is not a @Larantee that you'll get to keep the property and it might even take the romance out of an e!lgagement and possibly make y();;ur boy-/ girl-friend reconsider their request. · Another exception to the rule . oc-curs when one of the parties to the engagement is presently rn~rried, (e.g. separated but n~t divorced). T}).e courts will treat this as an illegal contract a11d will call 'for the forfeiture of the engagement property by the married donor leaving the parties where they- lie. That means she gets the ring and he gets.zippo. So if you're really on thoe look . out for some fre.ebies, . g() after . the married one.s: .. However, this too may be. a bit .. ffir()rally teprehe_asible. . Well, you kno.w the facts. I'll leave engagements and bieakups Up to you. If you want my opinion, stick with the r~mance and boot the legal riffraff on this one. Have a good Valentine's Day! Philosophy Forum • • . Trouble With (Prof.] Eve: A Look at Union Faculty By CHIDSEY DICKSON It is or should be plain to any student at Union College that, by and large, the faculty here is seriously dedi<;ated to teaching ancl very w~ll qualified to do just that. However, I have noticed that there is, a general feeling among teachers at this school that the students are unserious in their studies and unmannered in the elassroom. Their complaint, as I have heard it articulated by several different professors, directly concerns only a few individuals thDligh, in their .behavior, it is brought to bear on all stu.dents-regardless of whether they are deserving. While I acknowledge that this 'sort of thing' happens everywhere at all universities and in all fields, I (selfishly) believe that it should be in .. tolerable at Union. Sll.l'ely, I. have been in class wlten students disrupt the lecture or discussion by in· cessant chitoOChat; this is rude and inexcusable. College students have many of the responsibilities of adulthood and shoUld act accordingly. However;. I have been in class where it is the teacher who exhibits a very. unpl,'ofessional attitude towardS some in· dividuals who are,_let's say, not . ill good favor. My point in bringing these occurances to li~t is not to state the obvious: that uncooth Jlersons can be fotuld in all age and oc- cllpational groups but, rather, tbat something more than or- dimary is expected by those who b.;{)la degrees-not to mention many years of elq)erience. Iexpectthatmyteachersvrill treat me and my classmates \With respect .in-so-much as we ((:ollege students) are no longer in 1Jigh school which, everyone MJ.l remember, was intolerable ·because it is too highly struc- ~\Ured. Our relationsbip to our t-eachers is not one. of sibling to parent as it was with Mrs. Gruber-the . proverbial rnadanme.. ·Of 11th grade English. My appeal is thus: teachers should not :take the res~nsibility for learning away from studeot regardless of how th~y may feel how effective .their program. To give an example: Mrs. Y, Fhd. feels he:r students need to 1Je prodded into doing work since the nature of her subject demands ,that homework be done on a day-to-day basis. Mrs. Y, Phd. feels justified in llotulding her fledgings . to Jlrodace evidence of their servitude and allegiance because it is consistent with her See 'HIGH SCHOOL, ·pg. 8 •ANSWERS TO LAST' WEEKS' \TRIVIA:\ By Scott Russell · 1 . Dixon Ryan and Carter Davidson; 2. Graduate and Continuing. 8tudies;3 .. Kappa Alpha, Delta Phi, Sigma Phi, Theta Delta Chi, Psi Upsilon, Chi Psi; 4. Kappa Alpha, Delta Phi, Sigma Phi; 5 .Believers; 6. Gary Hart; 7 Raymond House; 8. 372-4441; 9. 1:00am-2:00am: 10 Fitzhugh Ludlow; 11. W.P.L ; 12. Fred Alford; 13 Enid; 14 $1.50 pitchers and $.50 chili dogs; 15. The Birds . Ranking: 1~You've been here too long 13,14- Alumnus 11,12- Senior 9,10- .Junior 7,8· Sophtnore 5;6· Freshman Below 5- Get a clue! ' .. ~---~-----~---~-- --- _...::, ' ~ FEATURES lfhe Outing Club The Outing Club Goes Skiing By \BWANA\ It is amazing how mucll fun novice skiers can have falling down, getting, up, and f;alling again. Two weeks ag~ the outing club (alive and (ioing quite well) . sponsored a crossccmntry Skiing safari to S.P.A.C. With Lou Schick and Jeff Shoemate as 0111 C!rash course ·instructors, we :ven. tured into a day filled with eiJdless possibilities of fun. N-adine \Novice\ Johnson, \Bwana\ Eckly Remy, and Na.dia Duvilaire \Komenichi\ were · first timers on the fjeld/slooes. The skiers at S.P.A.C. tb~t day were fortunate to have seen the natural clown act of Nadia trying desperately to get back on her feet while laugbin~ with that high pitch voice that those who know her have c<J!Ile to recognize. Nadine, not quite on top of skiing wear, entertained us with her blue hat that turned everything she touched blue. There were two lovebirds on our safari who served as scouts in the land of snow, warning the caravan of upcoming bunny slopes. Like most scouts they eventually gave up being nice and led us to a most ice covered thrilling slope. Wow! What excitement! The fear of kissing the trees, or hugging that protruding bolder, brain first, was all worth it. Ketrina Knuff, the crosscountry skiing woman, wanted to risk her life again, but the less courageous ones declined the offer, in particul~r me! It's In the Fridge How was I to know that this exposure to winter follies would lead me to try downhill sking the next day, and then ice- climbing a week later? Well maybe there's no answer to this question, but then again Columbus did discover that the world was and still is \round\; St. Augustine did conclude that · he rather lust for the flesh a while longer before converting to Christianity; Bomb! What bomb? Who bomb? Why bomb? They bomb, we bomb, By GAIL BLUMENFELD Refrigerator. Does this word bring to mind Tupperware containers filled with lun- chmeats, a half eaten homemade blueberry pie, or an unspoiled gallon of skim milk? If it doe~, then you are ob- viously thinking of the icebox, filled lovingly by mom at home, instead of the brown cube, which looks like a safe, and is found in most dorm rooms. These small refrigerators which are advertised as \ideal for student use\ don;t even deserve to be put in the same category as the Amana \old faithful\ at home. For one thing, they 7 re too small and all of the good food does not appear on their shelves by magic it must be bought by you. These cold storage safes vrithout combinations also make gurgling sounds all night and will freeze foods even when programmed on the lowest setting. And so you might ask why do we repeatedly rent or buy these machines? My personal theory on this matter has to do with the fact that student refrigerators can be used in c()njQPction with a diet to help you to lose weight. We all know that any food stored in a dorm refrigerator will be eaten immediately, so most people refuse to store anything fattening in them. ln a recent snoop, the items most commonly kept in these refrigerators were water, juice and ftuit. Beer was fowc:l.~ but its OWilers claimed that iti71'as to aid 9igestion and nothing Else. I believe them ... do you? Uppe.-classmen tended to be creative with the contents of their refrigerators witll some interesting choices stu~h as wine, applesauce, plckles, whitefish and meunster cllee~e. I'm not sure of the nutiMional value of these foods, but they certainly are not junk foods. Leftover Chinese food c~n be found immediately ·after a person has returned from the restaurant. However, once the person bas returned hollle and is feeling hungry latel', the cardboard carton will soon be empty. It is almost impossible to keep anything reaDy ,~ood in a dorm refrigerator f()r more than 24 ho~. Just try it. At this point you may be asking yourself abo\l't the purpose of this article. i\s.Far as refrigerators go, I miss mine from home with . thte ice dispenser in the door. Itdoesn't wake me up at night or freeze my cream cheese. However, on the othei hand, my ice box, the size of Berbie's Dream House is all mille. No one can yell at me for eating my sister's organic yogurt. And if by chance I receive 11 good grade, I can take a mag11et and display my A, or maybe B or C paper on the door for ev.eryone to see. That's what refrigerators are for aren't they? · everybody bomb! Well in case you're still reading this article, I took off on a tangent there, but I'm back on the subject now! Umh:. oh yeah! If anyone is _ interested in having a sporting · good time outdoors there is still p1enty of time this term. Come to the outing club meeting, which is usually on Tuesday's 7:30 P.M. in Fox lounge. Changes in this scheduled meeting will be announced by fliers. You will suddenly feel a ton of paper products dropped on your head ... LAST DAY TO WITH- DRAW FROM COURSES FRIDAY 2/12

Page g CONCORDIENSlS, February 11 1 1988 FEATURES Jeff and Alex Go To Iowa By JEFF BERKOWITZ Oes Moines, Iowa - This past weekend, Des Moines Iowa became a veritable who's who Is ·of journalists, politicians, ~ media personalities, and u concerned political scientists 1/l like Alex and myself. These eli fij 0 5 I .c.. World Agriculture .. ~ . Takes On the Fa:rm By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Editor-in..Chief They don't have cows in zoos. You won't fincl many farmers on campus available for questioning. In fact, we live in a pretty isolated world. It doesn't have to be that way. Several weeks ago our World Agriculutre cLass found our- selves exported to the Van Vorst Dairy Farm. There we were, snickering at the smell of manure and silage. When nearly 80 cows stood up and proc.eeded to eKcrete in unison, the whole class nearly lost it. We learned about the con- venience of modern technology when conveyor belts behind the cows hauled·out the manure. So much for \Farmer Brown\ needing a pitchfork. Have you ever spoken to a cow? Let's confess, by the time we left eveyone in the class must have at least said hello. One classmate observed \That cow growled at me.\ What about that one male student (who will remain nameless for the sake of what's left of his reputation) who tried to make friends with the cow with the big udder. Artificial in- semination doesn't sound like too :much fun. In one brief hour we learned more about the dairy cattle business than woUld have ever been possible througb. lectures or by suffering through endless hours <if skim reading. Mr. Van Vorst explained the complex system of government sub- sid.ies, the inputs and ~utputs of his fann, and the life eycle of a dairy cow (from birth to Eurger King). This excursion was only one element in the curriculrn of World Agriculture. Other highlights include, trips to the Gifford Corn Fann, tlle Jewett Chicken Farm, and a grain elevator. This \team taught\ course incorporates various educational techniques which make it by far one of the most involving courses offered. As well as having a variety of field trips the course offers a com- bination of involvirng class debates, lectures, and guest speakers. There's 11n extra bonus too, it's one of those valuable \C\ creditcourses. ... We're Not In High School Anymore Continued from page 7 general attitude that students it plainly clear, though, that this here are lazy and in need of attitade does exist in more \disciplinary academics.\ If cases than the one that has \Iron-fist Academics\ is not a t11rned me in disfavor of phraseology in current use, it acadmia and, sadly, Union should be henceforth en- College. My,... complaint con- stated-that is,until such a time cerni.ng one teacher sbocld be of in the future when, with great no lasting consequence (if relief, we can retire it.\ Fur- permanent emotional trawna is tiler, she feels justified in using disregarded as consequential in every available device to this case )-what is imp(}rtant is persuade a11d coaxs her that we be aware <1f the mutual students to d() their work. She responsibilities and respect that can: should exist in the classroom. l. check homework More than awareness, I hope 2. require attendance that my fellow stllde!lts will not 3. openly praise/condemn only be mature and r.asponsible students for their com- as stadents demand that the pliance/ disregard of her set of same be required of their rules professors. It has been called by and, the worst of all she can one of my professors an \im- andprobably wll do J.)lict contract\ between student 4. she can play at psychology a.nd teacher in whicll the latter and instill you enough guilt and ;!)rovides tu.t{)rsbip and embarrassment so that you will guidance and tl:le former at- sooner die than disappoint. tentiveness and active par- No doubt our learned lady has ticipation. As for respect, as is acquired her skillful waus while well known, it is a two-way teaching high school students. street. Everyone remembers those · Attention! Displaced high · high school teachers who made school teachers with degrees, i11dividuals l()ok foolish or you know who you are. Poor, people were brought together for one reason; to find out who people in elementary schools, churches, and civic centers would support as President of the United States. So much emphasis lies on the final numbers that each candidate receives thal the intrcacies and nuances of the caucuces and the activity that surrounds them are often missed. Iowa is more than the nwnbers it produces. We arrived on Saturday evening and headed to the lobby of the Sav()y Hotel, a famous political hotspot for anybody who is somebody at caucas time. The lobby was jam· packed with candidates, sup- porters, and press discussing and fighting their way througb the issues that have presented themselves in Iowa. Two old women who knew more about the caucuses than any political science major were eager to defend their candidates and introduce us to everyone in the room, including NBC news correspondents Roger Mudd and Connie Chung. Sunday folilld us at the Des Moines Convention center where we connived our way into press credentials. Armed with press passes, we stopped at all the candidates campaign headquarters, which left us With many campaign buttons and a good laugh at Gary Hart's headquarters which was a little more than a shack held up by a few vehement supporters. A good old fashioned rally for Paul Simon put an end to our evening to the tune of \Happy Days are Here Again.\ Monday, causus day was finally upon us. Through con- tacts at CBS news we gained access to the candidates caucus day agenda and proceeded to case them around Iowa. We found Babbitt bowling in 501 Levi's, Robertson saying \amen\ at the Trade Center, Dole condescending to high school kids, Dukakis being slightly more real to the same kids, Kemp asking if he could shake people's. hands, Simon offering a bow-tie joke at every opportunity, Gephardt being \anti-establislunent\ in a navy ByLEATAJACKSON Senioritis is a colUmn designed to bring together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of '88. If you don't read any of the other announcements, ads, reminders, schedules of calandars in Concordiensis, possibly skimming this column will keep you abreast of im- portant dates up to and in- cluding Commencement. stupid in class so as to ''make pitiable Modern Language an example e>f them.\ Some scape goat who mnst take her . · were darn good at their place with the legendary Mrs. • Run..off elections for Alwnni Representative are Friday, February 12 (tomorrow) from 9-4 in Carnegie. sport-at making you feel like Gruber in the Hall of the the dregs <If Bwnanity for not Defamed but (pos!Jibly) well- · complying to standards of their intentioned, I inVite you to method of instruction. explain your attit11des and your . And so on. rn make no more cprofessional\ ways. of this ·'hypothetical' case Sincerely (though not without . because, for al1my tack (hal), I some sarcasm) think you must realize it is a the lit'l ingrate real life affair. I say this to (whodoesn't-Jmow-what's- collfess my own disappointment good•for·'im) at that time in my Union Chidsey Dickson Colleae Career. I wish to make \' Please suppart the senior class gift. It's an oppartunity to give back a little for what you may bavereeeived here. * Even if you are going to graduate school, you should see a CDC counselor about yotil' resume. • Order commencemeot aooouncements in Mrs. pin-stripe suit, and Bush making an early get-away sensing eminent doom. All this dubious activity finally gave way to caucus time; that moment when all the press and candidates stop, giving way to average citizens discussing issues and choosing a candidate who may end up in the White House next January. We attended· a caucus site where both the Republicans and Democrats would be meeting; Granger Elementary school precinct number 89. Neighbors who have known each other for years passed through the halls with tempers already .flairing. The Republican caususer's met in third gradecreading class and numbered approximately 50. · They began with two minute speeches given by supporters on behalf of the republican candidates, then they simply voted. At Granger, Robertson came out on top defeating Dole by five votes. Delegates for the county convention were then selected. Across the hall in the school's gymnasium the Democrats were discussing resolutions to go on their party platform ranging frorights of the aged to the banning of SDI. The democratic caucus goers split up into various corners of the room forming groups . that would support specific can- didates. At a democratic caucus a candidate must have fifteen percent of the voters support to be viable for one delegate to the county conventions. At Granger their were 137 attendees giving viability to any candidate who had 21 supporters. After determining the number necessary for viability Marra's office by February 22. * €OMMEN CEMENT- JUNE 12, 1988 10:00 A.M. If you have not made reservations yet for family and friends to stay in local hotels, you should do it today. Many are already full for that weekend. the · r Iowan's _qUickly disseminated into groups representing each of the can~ didates. Simon, Gephardt, and Dukakis all had the support necessary to receive at least one delegate to the county convention. Jackson, Hart, and Babbitt did not have enough support to attain viability. Backers of these candidates had ten qrinutes to join the ranks of viable groups, or coax people into their ranks, ·thus rnakingthemviable. The room broke out into utter chaos. One Dukakis supporter offered a six pack of beer to a Babbitt sup- porter if he would join their camp. One employer threatened to fire one of his waitresses if she did not join him in supporting Gephardt. When all was said and done the- volatile democratic contest at Granger Elementary ended with an equally distribated alliance between , Gephardt, Dukakis, and Simon all of whom will have three delegates from Granger at the next step in Iowa, the county conventions. Witnessing the. grass-roots activity and finding out the results at the Granger Elementary school made us eager to find out how the can- didates fared in the other 2,487 caucus sites around Iowa, so we were off to Des Moines and the final tabulation centers. The tabulation centers with their telethon type tote boards, and scores of press and T.V. crews quickly tallied the numbers from all across the ~tate. The numbers were finally m. Months of debate and con- cern of typical Iowans with names like Wanda and Jed were converted into the numbersthat . the entire country had been waiting to hear. When the tabulations were · tallied and the winners an- ' nounced, all of the classiest ' hotels-in Des Moines seemed to · turn into one big fraternity party, ·with beer flowing and _kegs kicking. Like the true political scientists we are, Alex and I fairly examined- each of . the parties for objectivity's • sake. Do you realize we are the last class to remember: The cheap plastic chairs in Sitting in O'Hare waiting for West Dining Hall oqr flight to Schenectady~ we The little old lady, Fresh Kid, pondered whether what we had who served in West Dining Hall. · been through was the biggest (\!need! I need!\) inost overblown media event The bomb scare in Butterfield we've ever seen or a shining the morning of Chern 10 exam example of ~the American ourfreslunanyear. . democratic process. _in 1.;\Ction. Only 121 more days to enjoy The Iowa Caucus was definitely the lovely Schenecta .. gray an elaborately choreographed weather. media event, complete with Ideas and input for this . . sa~ellite dishes ani:t. dodging column are welcome. Please repo-:ters, but one c~nnot help forward them to Box 843 or 88 : ·• thinking that people lik~ Wanda JACKSONL (computer mail). and Jed put a lot. of tim~ •. ef· \Did you ever wonder why fort, and thought. mto deciding they call it Commencement?\ who they wanted to lead our _country.

COl'lCORDIENSIS, February Jl, 1988 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Israel's Palestinian PrOblem International Is sue ' ' Q.uestion: Wllat do you :titink about lsrtlel's policy on the West Bank and G.az~, strip? By DOUG PIERCE Israel stirs the hearts· of men the world over, evoking passionate ptide and pity, detetmined hope and ruthless hate. What are the images Israel conjures in your mind? Abraham tending his flocks in the mountains of Judah or Sabras greening a desert kib- butz? Perhaps rioting Palestinians in the Israeli administered territories of Gaza, Judah and Samaria (the iast two are also referred t.o as the West Bank of Jordan)? Isreal is all of this and more. Physically, Israel defines an area roughly the size of New Jersey at the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea. · The climate is akin to souther California, with a pastoral North and a barren South. The land is flat along the coast, rising quickly to steep hills and mountains in the East. On the eastem border lies the Great Rift Valley and in it the lowest point on Earth, the Dead (or Salt) Sea. Most would argue, however, that it is not Israel'S land, but · its civilization and culture which are the out- standing features. Consider Israel's name, Yisrael, wllich is a Hebrew compound meaning \He who struggles (or wrestles) with GOD.\ Indeed, Israel not only struggles with GOD, but also with her conscience and her Arab neighbors. Brief History Why is this the case? The answer is obviously not simple or the Arab-Israeli conflict would have been settled before it .began. In my opinion, the event which has had the greatest import on con- ' temporary circumstances occurred in 70 C.E. In that year, the Roman Empire storrned the walls of Jerusalem and crushed the final Jewish rebellion against Rome. Jews were scattered like dust in the wind, finally settling in the lands of the Golab, or the Dispersion. The land of Israel was esSEil· tially void of inhabitants, until the Arab conquests of the eigbtll ~entury, when large numbers,()£ Arabs migrated to Israel, ThE conflict began in the nineteentll centUry when nationalism was in vogl!e in Europe and pogroms. were sweeping Russia. Man:v Jews thought seriously abG11t r~turng to Israel. A fine idoeli, except for one major problelll; Israel had been inhabited ,b:v Arabs for over five hundrced years. Enter the modern era, Arter the Nazis murdered six million Jews, the survivors decide·d that nationalism and statehoo<l; were necessary . tor the very survival of t'he Jewish p~ple .. Concurrenly, Palestinian i\ralls began to feel the first sparks of nationalSim from the fires then raging in Europe. Both grollps wanted Israel for themselves. The League of Nations, an· ticipating these dual demmds,. decided to partititon Isra~l leaving half for the Arabs artd half for the Jews. Later, the State of Israel was born in 194ll. The day after her Declaratio11df Independence, the sw·ro1111<iillg Arab nations attacked Isr~el, refusiJ:lg to recognize her right to enst. They attacked her again in 1967 and in l~T.:i. Against this backgrouncl the current unrest in the ad- ministered lerrirotires, a11d Israel's response to it, bec:ornes more understandable. Roots of Unrest in the Administered Terri~riE; Why the Arabs attac:ked Israel in 1948, 1967, and 19'73 is: a complex: question. Suffice li to· say that these attacks we1e a result ()f historical mlsper- ceptions and conflicting cla.i!11s of legitimacy. The hist()rieal mispereeptions are too l;letailEd for a just analysis here. however the conflicting c:ladms of legitimacy do merit eorn- mentary. Legitimacy is used lly each gi'()Up to lay claim b all of Israel. Each side is bound btne land by stro~g historical ties. PHI BETA KAPPA supported by Terms Abroad and ISU is sponsoring a PANEL DISCUSSION on '\INTELLECTUAL AND EMOTIONAL CHALLENGES OF A CROSS-CULTURAL EXPERIENCE\ All students who have been on a Term Abroad or are planning to go abroad, and all foreign students on a campus are· cordially invited t.o participate in this discussion about preparations to live in another culture, cultural awareness, ·cultural: disorientation, adjustment experiences, inter-cultural communication, re•entry into one's 0\111'1 culture, and more. Panelists: Byron Nichols, Barr.y Smith, William l!hom;as, Nicolas Boch,May Cheung; Nicola Piccirillo Commentator: Helene Smith Sigrid Kellenter Moderator: MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 4:30 P.M. COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM · Great Decisions-1988 ·· · This week begins the Great Decisions-19&8series. Sponsored by iJ:le Foreign Policy Association. the series featutes one dis~ussion perweek on an importal').t issue: of American foreign policy. Following the discussion, participants mark their ballots in an ()pinion survey to be tabu1ated and released nationally. Brief backgrol;ind analyses of all the issues will be available at the first session, which will be held at 7:3() p.m. Tuesday, January 19, in the Milano Lounge of Hale House. Feb. 16-Mexico and the U.S. Agenda ·sa In July 1988 MEx::ic:o .elects a new President. · Tuesday, Jan. 19 7:~o p.m. Milano Lounge: Hale Hol!se For further .information call qave Cope at 372-35€6 or -David Clinton at 370-6069 .• The Jewish people have lived · there for two and a half millenium; it is the cradle of Jewish civilization, with its immense impact on Western culture. Likewise, the land has been called . home . by Palestin[an Arabs for five · h.undred · years. Islam, the crowning achievement of. Arab civilization, glorifies Jerusalem with the Dome of the Rock. Whose right to the land is more legitimate? I do not think such a , 'question can be, or more im- portantly, should be answered by ,men: Who has the right to judge nations ot compare cultures? Leave this to GOD. In my opinion, the tragedy ,of the Arab-Israeli conflict is that both sides are \right.'; Nevertheless, the drama continues. Israel's victories in the Arab.Israeli conflict have brought her a measure of tranquility, though they have not solved any .of the underlying issues which obstruct the road to peace. In point of fact, Israel's victory in the Six-Day War burdened her with a host of new problems. When the smoke cleared in 1967, Israel found herself in possession of the territories partitioned to the Palestinian Arabs. At first glance, it appeared as though the dispute over the land of Israel was at last finished, with theJewish state being the victor and the Palestinians the vanquished. Life is not so simple. Israel could neither annex its new territory nor give it back to the Palestinians. The reasons for this are fourfold. First, Israel defines itself as a Jewish state and a democracy. (In both respects it is an anomaly in the political land- scape of the Middle East.) These definitions demand that Israel always have a Jewish majority. Therefore, were the Government of Israel to annex the administered territories, it would according to its own laws, have to extend citizenship to the Palestinians. Israel would no . Continued on following page By Am:mSIMON Question: What do you think about Israel's policy on the West Bank and Gaza strip? Prof. Berk: !think that what's happening on the'Gaza strip and West Bank is tragic. The basic problem is, as it has been for some time, the difficulty in reconciling the national aspirations of the Palestinians with the security needs of Israel. As far as specific Israeli policies are concerned, the apparently indiscriminate· beatings of Palestinians are deplorable. On the other hand, there should be no illusions as to what is occurring in. the con- frontation. This is not Kent State, nor Berkeley, nor Selma,. Alabama. Israeli soldiers are statements of Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza strip expressing a desire not only for an end to Israeli ()e!CUpation and a state of their ovvn, but also the dismantling of tl!e ·state vf Israel. Hopefully, the events of the la~ two montbs will. bring hard-lmers and extremists on both sides to tbe negotiating table. Chtis Hartmallll ( '81{)-Even though I sympathize with Israel's need to keep tight contr~l over their :country and OCCUpied lands, I think it should try to integrate the Palestinians into society. This near• sightedness on the part of the lsraeli government has caused uprisings among the second generation of Palestinians, those who most resent the l ·.w ~,.,. \ j Professor Steven Berk liable to be attacked and killed control the Israelis have over andtherefore the resort to fore~ their lands and livelihood. on their part is understandable, Art Spalding('IUI)-I believe both But again, indiscriminate people have a right to a beatings are ,il'ltolerable. I think homeland, and peaceful co- that in the presentation of existence is the best solution. events by the media, there is a The selfish attitude which exists tendency to believe that history in the Middle East is self- begins only 5 minutes before the peFpetuating and destructive. c:urrent crisis. The roots of the Why does everyoody over there c:onflict are in the un· think that Israel is their willingness, going back 60 homeland and 110 one else's? years, of the leadership of the Most western religions have a Arab world in general, and the claim to the lands of Israel, but Palestinian Arabs in particular only a limited n l1Il1ber of people t() accept the idea of a sovereign can rule it. With cooperation Jewish state in even a smaU these people can include both Intern ati on a I part of Palestine. After all, the Israelis and Palestinians r·t · S Arabs rejected the Peel Par· Elizabeth Wright ( '68)-I think 'r-1 m eries tititon'Plan of 1937 and the U.N Israel's policy is morally Presents: Partitition Plan of 1947. Had justificable because their ac- they not done so, there would tions benefit and preserve the La Dolce Vita (1961) now be an independent entire Israeli state. The Israeli directed by Federico Fellini. Palestinian State. Today, the government hasan obligation to fundamental question is its citizens to carry out Fellini's oscar-winning. whether the PLO has truly whatever actions are necessary ··.film exposes the decadent abandoned its stated desire to to maintain its existence. side of Roman Society as destroy the state of Israel and Ken Newman ( '88)-Israel · · se(}n through the eyes ofa therefore is, from the Israeli should be more tolerant of the cynical joUrnalist who at- point of view, a suitable individual rights of te · ten:dsendlessroundsofpart- · negotiatingpartner. Thereisn() Palestinians in the occupied question that the PLO' zones and should now focus. on ies in search of items for his represents the Will of the negotiations with the oppostion. scandal sheet. overwhelming majority of the However, I feel that there Feb. 16 at 8:00p.m. Phaletsthinianthsl bput oit is not cleat- stshotuld ~oh~ bie a Palestinean w e . er e L . and large .a e w1t m · sraeli territory, in theColleg.e Center numbers of Palestinians are becausethiswouldonly serve to . Auditorium prepared to eo .. exist with Israel~ further e\acerbatethesituation . .· . .. I am concerned about the · in the Middle East. ·~========~------~~. DEAD.LINE DATE FOR SUMMER AND FALL TERMS ABROAD Robert Collins, Direc- tor of ll'lter-Study Programmes, will visit Unhm on Thursu day; Fel>ruary 11th. Students interested in lnter·Study pro grams, particularly those In London, can speak w1th him In the Human· FRANCE ITALY JAPAN BATH, ENGLAND CHINA YORK, ENGLAND SOCIALIZE.D MEDICINE (ENGLAND, SWEDEN AND HUNGARY) IS FEBRUARY 15, 1988 ltles Faculty Lounge betw€3en 4·5 p.m.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1988 · INTERNATIONAL FEA.TURES This Week in the World The European Economic C~ommu~ity C?nada • T~is Saturday marks the start of the 15th Olympic wmter games 111 Calgary, Alberta, Canada. US.SR • Russian youths are abandoning the traditional routes to power. The Komsomol, a communit:Y party youth group, which gav~ Gorbachev his start, is gaining. less and less favor with its future possible members. Many youlbs have started their own, unofficial grol!ps. Jordan- The Jordanians are now feeling much happiness mixed with anxiety over the recent happenirrgs in Israel. Jordan openly· supports the demonstrators in Sou them and Eastern Israel although . they are unsure ()f future happenings. West Germ=tny - Nukem, a manufacturer of nuclear fuels, has' come under public scrutiny due to a series of misdeeds. Nul}em has·. been charged with bribery in the industry and it has been said that ; bomb-grade fuels have been shipped to Libya and Pakistan. Panama - Friday, Gen. Manuel Ant()nio Noriega was indicted on . drug trafficki11g and racketeering. It is expected that this will make : a peaceful departure from office less probable. Those in protest. against Noriega's rule have used this to prove his corruption. · (this infm:mation was taken from the New York Tirnes.) Israel • • • Continued from page 9 longer be a Jewish state. If Israel were to annex the territories without extending citizenship, it would be pursuing a policy similar to that of South Africa, abhorrent in the eyes of most Israelis. The Palestinians and their Arab brethren have not done an:ything to alleviate the situation. No Arab state wants the West Bank or the Gaza strip. IGng Hussein once ruled the West Bank, but his monarchy was alnwst over- thrown ·by tb.E PaleStinians in 1971. Egypt,. for her part, already has too many mouths to feed without the added burden of the Gaza Strip (with a growth rate of 3.1 percent). Fur- thermore, Arab nations view the Palestinian claims as legitimate. Therefore, offering the Palestinians citizenship in an Arab C()Uiltry would un- dermine the whole Palestinian struggle. The territories cannot be returned to the Palestinians because the Palestinians have vowed to keep on- fighting until all ~f the Israel is theirs. What is Israel to do? Israel's Response to tbe Palestinian Problem Israel has been forced to administer the territories of Judah, Samaria, and Gaza until the, day comes when the PaJestinians agree to let Israel live in peace. This ad- ministrationhas problems of its own. Young Palestinians hate the Israeli occupation, and Israel has been ostracized in the W()rld community_ for a problem it did not create. The occupation has also meant economic ;ha:rdsh~p for the Palestinians, despite the massive investment Israel has made in improving the standard of living in the territories. Why does violence co11tinue to fester in the ad- ministered territories? Much of it is frustration with the stalled international peace process, in which the Palestinians, being stateless, have little direct say. Anger is also directed against By PATRICK PERIVIER When one is a foreigner in ' America, one of the things that is puzzling is the· excessive use af acronyms. On the other hand, in twelve Western European countries, there is only one acronym well known, although its initials may vary from EEC, CEE., to EOK in Greek. It is part of our daily political news and we are affected more and rriore by its presence. The European· Economic Community was formally established on March 25, 1957 by the Treaty -of Rome. President DeGaulle of France and Chancellor Adenauer of the Federal Republic of Germany were the signers of the Treaty, which also involved representatives of Belgium, Luxembourg, Italy, and the Netherlands. The treaty established the idea of a Common Market, that is the gradual development of a the settlements of ultra- nationalist Jews in the occupied lands. The remainder of Palestinian anger results from their poverty (relative to Israel). The only solution to the Palestinian problem will be in the long run to give the Palestinians their own state. However, this necessitates a Palestinian willingness to negotiate with Israel. This is unlikely. The P.L.O. refuses to recognize Israel or give up terrorism. Any non-P.L.O. Palestinians who try to negotiate with the Israelis are assas,sinated by the P.L.O. This means that negotiations must take place between Israel and other parties . representing the Palestinians, for example the Jordanians, or an international conference of selected Arab and Western states. In the mean- time the violence will continue and Israel will be forced to restrain the Palestinians with force. The lost Honor of Katharina Blum (1975), video Directed by Vol~er Schlondorff and Margarethe von Trotta. a<lapted from Heinrich Boll\s Noble prize winning novel, with Angela Winkler, Mario-Ad.orf. This political thriller, from tile director of The Tin Drum and his wile, is about the systematic victimization of a proud young We>lllan. In a period of several days, Katharina's privacy and particularly, her honor are destroyed, first by the police, who terrorize her. and then by the yellow press, which creat€S in her name the image of a politicized Bonnie Parker. VC~Iuable insights Into women's Issues rarely broached by contemporary films. A film about modern woman·about the ways in which a woman becomes.rnost vunerable when she tries to \go it alone\. Monday, Feb. 15 'IIie . ~asfiion Time: 8 p.m. ·Place: College Center 406 K A L E Sliow Sponsored by JSU International House Clothing from: Cohoes filene's Benetton The Gap Casual Corner Chess King Car~n Charles Hoffman's I D 0 s c 0 Models Featuring Beatrix Kandif Mailette Tyler Craig Summers Amy Cuccaro Melissa Putnam Teresa Siberi Patrick Perivier Claudine Klein Phi/Chang Lindsay Feingold Kenya l.:enoir This Saturday ·g p.m. College Center The Atrium p E MC: Matteo Coverl Abbondlo Customs Union, the removal ()f all barriers to the fre~ movement of Capital, Labour~ and Service$, and the establish- ment of corrunon agriculturaL and transport policies. betweem the member cotmtries. The institutions of the Community kept on being perfected. In 1962, a Co:mrno11 _ Agricultural Policy that guarantees common internal price levels was adopted. lf1 1972, following an attempt to ctl- ordinate its economic and. monetaFY .policies, the Com- munity introduced the European Currency Sna-ke which n~rrowed the margin of exchange rate flu(Jtuations between· members' currencies. In 1979, the Ew-opean MonetarJ Symem was introduced as a ·means to increase the moneta1~y co-operation and stability in the · Community. As a resUlt a Euro.pean currency wa:s created. Each national currency is convertible, al>- stractly, into a certain amoun.i of ECCs. Although not printecl yet, it is being used often in all economic exchanges betwee11 the member countries. But ·over the years, the EEC grew larger. In 1973, Denmark, the Irish Republic and th.e· United Kingdom, signed th•e Treaty of Brussels or the Treaty of Accession. Greece joined im 1982, Spain and Portu.gal in 1986. Originally start~d with si:x members, the Community noW! includes twelve countries. Its institutions grew mor·e sophisticated and complicate(! too. Brussels is the Communit:y , capital city. This means that it is not only the place where a]! the EEC offices are, but also . where all the delegations meet. The presidency of the Com~ munity is assumed alterr· natively by the leader of eaeh member country for about three months. The other fc:1ctor in~ volv~d in the decision-making process is the Europearn Parliament which is per· manently located in.Strasbom!5, France. One of the main points .of discordance is the Community, Budget. The EEC raises funds from member countries to finance communal programs. · Payments come from diverse sources. On the revenue side, the system is said to discriminate against, tb!e countries with a high import rate from non-member cotltl- tries. On the expenditure side, jt is said to- -·favor the Comm()n Agricultural Program, whieh means that is favors tile traditionally agricultural, southern countries. When Margaret Thatcher, the Britisb. Prime Minister, came int() power, she argued that her country was bei11g discriminated against as far as the budget was concerned: tine UK has a lot of imports coming from third world countries belonging to the CommonwealtiitJ. and its agricu1tw-al system js not as quantitatively productive as countries like France, Italy or Spain. One can, therefor-e, remember a very strong anti- comm~nity spirit in Gre~t Britain. However, a rece11t survey showed that a majority of British people were now .in favor of the EEC and would n.ot want their count~;y to seced!e. The advantages of the Common Market are now widely !Lc- cepted and recognized; even though in such a period of economic recession every country seems to lack cor:n- munity spirit and only thinks of its own interests. It is, howevet, interesting to note that when .tile member countries , work together on industrial or hi~h technological programs, it is En 1 ~87, Arizona lance Ia Satillit~ TV ·Sat. 7 usually an economic success; the most aecepted ac- complishments include the Airbus ind11stry, which seems to have the fav()ur of some American airline companies, Ariane, the Ellropean rocket, which allows the Community not only to be in<lependf.m~ from the United States anli Japan, but also to launch some foreign satellites. More(Jver, the most intriguing pben()menon is that many E,11ropean .political leaders now thin~ that the only future for every single member country is in the Community. Under the impulse of the two most active countrie:s. France and Germany, the twelve countries, have accepted the idea of a mor-e united com- munity. In additiooi to European flag and anthem; the European passport and driving license are starting to be disttibu.ted. The member eomtries are working on a system to hannonize school and university diplomas as well as the woF-11: q11alifications so that the free m()vement of labor clause can , be .effective. The Chunnel (Cha!l11el Tunnel) is being buUt and should be one of the most efficient factors leading the free trade. Indeed in 1992, the tra.de barriers between the 12 E Ul'opean Community countries are to he eliminated. This new step will create a wide open marketplace of some 320 million consumer's. Many large companies are now preparing for this event: eompany leaders are talking about their European plans. Renault, the French car-bUilder, for example, has most of its fac- tories located outside France. DeBenedetti, an Italian in- dustrialist, got contml of the largest Belgian company, LaGenerale. Furthermore~ the European leaders, thanks to French President Mitterra11d, have started t() thlnk of a Ew-opean Defense. His idea Qf a Ew-opean space shuttle is, at the present time, agreed upon. France and Germany, apart from con- ducting mutual defense manoeuvres, are together gathering ,tecbnology to build a high performance helicopter. One could probably find many more examples of this_ part- nership. It proves that Europe has started to think of itself as more independent, and has begun to realize that whenever it achieves true unity, its power inthe world will be tremendous. Moreover, o11e has to una derstand that although it is difficult , even for the riewer generations, to think of themselves as Europeans, in a few decades this idea will probably be well accepted ... After an, isn't the concept formulated by the former French President Valery Giscard d Estaing of electing a European president becoming more popular itself?

• < CO.f'ICORDIENSJS,. Ftbrttary 11~ 1988 ! Page 11 Thurs. 11. Fri. 12 ·Sat. 13 , Sun. 14 Tue. t6 ·Wed. 17 Thurs. t8 Fri. 19 - Sat. 20 .Sun. 21 H t • t t t t • t t t t t t • • t • •• • • Sc·he·dule .of Events Feb 11-Feb 21, 1988 11·:00am 10:00pm 11:45-12:45 .pm 7,9,11; pm 7,9,11 pm 8:00am 7:00pm 7,9,11 pm 7:30pm 11 :00am•5 ;OOpm 7,9,1 ~ pm 11:00 am 11 :ooarrl-'5 :OOpm 10:00pm 1 t:45am~12:45pm 11 :45am-5:00pm 7,9,11 pm 7,9,11 pm 1 :00pm 7 4:00pm 7,9,11 pm Minerva Hour: Laurence Thomas CABARET Haffl'e: BIG RIVER Tickets Film: HOLLYWOOD SHUFFLE Film: HOLLYWOOD SHUFFLE Ski Trip I GORE Proctor's Presents: BIG RIVER i=Um: HOLLYWOOD SHUFFLE International Film: LA DOLCE VITA Bloodmobile Film: THE VERDICT Miner-Va Hour: Dr. Ernest Drucker Bloodmobile CABARET Raffle: MUMMENSCHANZ Tickets Bloodmobile · Film: NO WAY OUT Film: NOWAY OUT . Cross Country Ski trip to SARATOGA Film: NO WAY OUT CC Auditorium Dutch Hollow DutchHOIIow - CC Auditorium CC Auditarium CC East Entr.ance _ Proctor's Theatre CC Auditorium OG Auditoriurn Old Chapel SS016 CC Auditorium Old Chapel DutchHo.llow Dutch Hollow Old Chapel CC Auditoriun:t CC Auditorium CC East Entr.ar:~ce CC Auditoriurn Off the Erie Boulevard Opposite Wendy'_s presents D-R. DIRT JO.HN VALBY On ·Tuesday Nigh,t, Feb. 16th Advance Tickets $9 At Door $10 For Info.: 346-0906 Mustbe21 Peace Corps On-Campus Interviews MARCH 1,- 9AM to SPM t Your first job after graduation should offer you more than just a t paycheck. In science, education, agriculture, forestry, home t economics, industrial arts and· other areas, Peace Corps volunte~rs l are putting their degrees to work where it's needed most while gaining t the experience of a lifetime: t . - t • • • t l t • t • • • • • Currently 34 graduate schools across the country reserve scholarships and assistantships specifically for former P-eace Corps memqers. Many graduate schools offer academic credit for Peace Corps service • • Quality work experience recognized by employers. • Non-competitive e.ligibility for U.S. Government jobs. • Language skills. • Postponement of educational loans. • $4,200 completion-of-service allowance. • Opportunity to travel and to· experience new cultures. • And much more. Contact your Placement Office for an interview appointment today.-, Union Mathematics Cl'ub The f~sl meeting of .the winter term will be on WEDMESDAY , FEBRUARY 3 AT . 4:30PM IN BAILEY HAUL203~ Leon Tatevossian will give a talk enUited MFERMAT'&LASTTHEOREM AT AGEaso· ProfessorS. Maleki of the ·Physics Department will speak next term on \THE MOMENT INVERSION: TECHNIQUE IN MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS\ The PROBLEM SEMINAR: Returns:by popular demand! The first meeting is luesday, February 2. Suggestions are· Welcome. Contact PieterDecker (Box 1551·), .Jonathan Hinckley i(Box 892) or Stephen Young (Box 2275) WANTED Volunteer ttJ.tors to ass:ist adult women in attaining their high school equivalency diplomas. Any major, any year-Flexible hours. For info can Nancy at 377-'9232 or Cheryl. at 374-3394. , DAM BROSE ClEANERS 1517 VaR Vranken Ave 374-5193 DAY CLEAN!_NG AND TAILORING C?C?c::?C?C?c::?C?C? C?C?(?C?OC?C?C? IS. V. .. Co-rdial(g inv_ites you to a Mardi (jras Part Co.stume part:J Sat. :Je6. 20tn 8:30pm Pfease Wear .91. Costume .9/.naCottU IJ)ancing With 1.1s ...... __ ·_:_.· -·~-- .. ··. · .. Petal :Florist has everythJnq your heart cCesires 1~~ Valentine's :Day, Sunday, February 14th Select /ram Ule traditionaldozefllong stemm~lfmses to balloon Bocruets . Delivery to 'f(}Uf Sweetheart available and we11'be open S'illnclay for the Last minute gift givers. ·Located withJit walking distance from Campus ·Behind Proctois Theatre Arcade in canal Square. We are yourlJawntown Schenectadjy Florist- Alw.cJys pleasant and wil!irJg to help !)IOU chooser that special gift. Wire seMce awiiilable lor your out-of·town orders, Fraternity and SrtJority quantity disoun.ts given upon requesil.f.or ali your special events. To use your major credit card just gFve us a ca/1377-6648 . Call (518) 370-6176 Applications must be completed prio·r to interviews. \\ :J{appy '1/a{entine s 'lJay'l.,

I j I, . Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1988 dLDltfJ)rbirttsis -------1-ounthl .ar fituOII CoJiq:t /877------ Fight For Worthy Causes Finally, students turned out to support a cause they believed in. Tuesday night an impressive crowd gathered at the Open Forum Meeting on pornography. Students were well prepared to defend their beliefs concerning the issue of showing pornographic films on campus. This concern demonstrates that Union students are capable of fighting for the issues that provoke them. We aren't completely complacent. So, what are we going to do about the other issues that will be influencing our lives? Wllat about the planned tuition increase of 105%? How do you feel about Gel-Time? Will th'e proposed General Education curriculm provide Union students with a sound education? How about working to ensure the best faculty get tenure? , These topics are complex and by no means easy to evaluate or criticize, but they're not beyond our intellectual capacity. The pornograp4y issue has shown us that the student community has substantial energy and intelligence; now let's tum those abilities toward more significant problems that this campus faces. Look at the ideas that 20(}0 people can generate in pornography -- and imagine what ~hey could do with other issues. We'll never know if we don't try. Keep the Carnegie Name .... Or Change History The College Center bad become a focal point for activities now that winter had arrived, and it further impresses on us that the building still has a generic name -- though it may not for long. It is widely- speculated on campus that the College Center will be renamed for a: particularly generous donor. The building that seniors know as Carnegie will bear a new name. We beUeve that a new name would obliterate a distinctive, prestigious title that is part of Union's heritage. The philanthropist Andrew Carnegie donated over $350 million to various charities, including over $20 million to small colleges. His donation in 1910 of $100,000 (that's 100,000 1910 dollars!) allowed Union's engineering department, a rarity at liberal arts schools, to be housed in frrst-rate facilities. Carnegie was a true American, who worked his way from virtually nothing to selling what became U.S. Steel for $350 million, then giving all that money back to his country. Union sliould be honored to be part of that legacy, and we should not simply erase his name from the campus. Today's College Center is still mostly the original Carnegie structure, even three-quarters of a century later. His original contribution is stilt here, and his name belongs on it. The Carnegie name carries a special renown that should stay on the building. Yes, we can recognize the donations made to renovate Carnegie's building. But it should not replace Carnegie, as renovations to any otller building should not dismiss the contributions made by those before. We would eventually lose the memories of past presidents Carter Davidson, Dixon Rayan Fcx, and God forbid, · the Nott Memorial. Do we change a fundamental part of Union history whenever someone coughs up money? And what about the alumni that died in wars and were honored with the Alumni Gym and Memorial Chapel (World War I} and the Memorial Fie.ld House {World War II) -- do we wipe out our memory of their contributions? We didn't with the Alumni Gym. LETTERS Don't Waste Your Bre~th on Pornography To the Editor: Returning to the infamously docile undergraduate com- . munity from which I have been briefly absent, .I recently fo.und an embattled Union student body ...... but over a matter of import!. Indeed; yet por- nography is the inconsequential adjunct of the true polemic issue. The concept of censorship is the tanta.motmt concern. Those who contend that pornography exploits women are correct, as are those who maintain that men are just as readily used as objects in the pornographic media. It is clear that the human being is ex- ploited here, yet to those feminists who adamantly believe that the woman is the predominant object of ex- ploitation you may continue to do so. That issue is unimportant in the argument at hand, so stop wasting your breath and our time. Undoubtedly you Will realize that our wonderful Shaffer Library ~ontains many volumes of works documenting humanity's sordid history of · exploitation - included among which are writings of the Marquis de Sa de himself. Was it not Union that purchased such documents? Is it not Union which offers these works.. ill- sufferable as they may j)e, uninhibited and uncensored 1o its students? Society's. reprobation of such tastes and principles is irrelevant here. What is germane, however, is. that the wl'itings of sucb_ thinkers as Immanuel Kant ;as well as those of the MarqUis de Sjide must be, and ar-e,. -available to the student. If, ~r chance, a student wants a bo()k,. bet it righteous or repugnant,. that is not on Shafferts hallowel shelves, Union will surely shipt it jn (while of course footing tile bill). It actually behooves Unit011 as a nonsectarian u.n .. dergraduate liberal arts in- st_itution to manifest any and every facet of the universe i11 which we exist, no matter bow deplorable that view may 'be, to its mature intellectual com- munity. In such a settin~. In()re reprehensive than the subjeet matter itself would be Ute censorship thereof~ Is that not what .you S.A.P;s intend to achieve? Your holy crusade against injustice is in fact praiseworthy, but when it involves precluding the rights. of . others it is downright selfish. If you don~t wish to see tl:le movie, don't .go. If you don't wish others to see the movie, tell them.so. Do not. dare, however, attempt to take :away the rights of others simply because they · are inconsistent witb your own moral convictions ...... especially in an institution insuring tl:lose very rightS. Furthermore, S.A.P.s, have you the.right to Qictate what one does in privacy? If the movie was to be shown in the library courtyard, your objections woUld surely be noted and well founded. However the auditorium possesses these fantastic wonders of carpentry magic; we call them doors. It would be so very simple just to .close them. If necessary, big signs reading \Warning: The Material Shown; Herem May Be Hazardous To Your Virtue, Integrity, and Morality'' can be posted, deterring any ac- cidental entry. No, it is not necessary for the c-olleage to condone the presentation of- X-rated fili:ns, but it is indeed Union's responsibility to ensure- the freedom of its students to ex- perience them. Adam Ross Kolker '88 \Shades of Gray\ Increases Awareness To the Editor: \Shades of Grey,\ the new Mountebanks production, was a highly educational one that presented its ideas in a cap- tivating, witty, and painless manner. The various topics ranged from discrimination of all types to the heated issue of date rape. Mter the per- . formance, a group discussion was lead by a faculty member who served as a moderator. Here, audience participation was enthusiastic especailly when on the subject of the discrimination of women. Quickly the group worked its way into a lively debate on date rape the faults and respon- sibilities of the involved parties. During the course of this discussion a joke was made about printing a list of rules for men and women to follow in such circumstances. The following guidelines · are the result. First!.._ when a person says Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordlensis. All Letters to the Editor tnust be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tue.sday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide · their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Narnes normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject · letters that are libelous or · do not conform to standard of good taste. \no\ to another's advances, their words should be taken at face value. Secondly, people should mean .exactly what th~y say, be it yes or no, to avoid giving conflicting signals during such moments. It was also proposed that to reduce t.11.e risk of date rape, both parties should state just how far tlley are willing to go before getting into compromising positions. . These simple guidelines, in conjunction ·with mutual respect, should lesson the dangers of date rape here at Union. \Shades of Grey\ is a worthy experience not :to be missed. If you have yet to see it, you can catch Thursday's performance and discussion.at 7:30P.M. in Davidson Lounge. . Steve Cole '89 i Ken Orosz '89

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1988 <llDttfllrbirnsis -------1-ou.ndt-d iJI {:mOll Collq:r /8;' ... ------ Fight For Worthy Causes Finally, students turned out to support a cause they believed in. Tuesday night an impressive crowd gathered at the Open Forum Meeting on pornography. Students were well prepared to defend their beliefs concerning the issue of showing pornographic films on campus. This concern demonstrates that Union students are capable of fighting for the issues that provoke them. We aren't completely complacent. So, what are we going to do about the other issues that will be influencing our lives? What about the planned tuition increase of 10.5%? How do you feel about Gel-Time? Will the proposed General Education curriculm provide Union students with a sound education? How about working to ensure the best faculty get tenure? These topics are complex and by no means easy to evaluate or criticize, but they're not beyond our intellectual capacity. The pornography issue has shown us that the student community has substantial energy and intelligence; now let's turn those abilities toward more significant problems that this campus faces. Look at the ideas that 2000 people can generate in pornography -- and imagine what they could do with other issues. We'll never know if we don't try. Keep the Carnegie Name -- Or Change History The College Center had become a focal point for activities now that winter had arrived, and it further impresses on us that the building still has a generic name -- though it may not for long. It is widely speculated on campus that the College Center will be renamed for a particularly generous donor. The building that seniors know as Carnegie will bear a new name. We believe that a new name would obliterate a distinctive, prestigious title that is part of Union's heritage. The philanthropist Andrew Carnegie donated over $350 million to various charities, including over $20 million to small colleges. His donation in 1910 of $100,000 (that's 100,000 1910 dollars!) allowed Union's engineering department, a rarity at liberal arts schools, to be housed in first-rate facilities. Carnegie was a true American, who worked his way from virtually nothing to selling what became U.S. Steel for $350 million, then giving all that money back to his country. Union should be honored to be part of that legacy, and we should not simply erase his name from the campus. Today's College Center is still mostly the original Carnegie structure, even three-quarters of a century later. His original contribution is still here, and his name belongs on it. The Carnegie name carries a special renown that should stay on the building. Yes, we can recognize the donations made to renovate Carnegie's building. But it should not replace Carnegie, as renovations to any other building should not dismiss the contributions made by those before. We would eventually lose the memories of past presidents Carter Davidson, Dixon Rayan Fox, and God forbid, the Nott Memorial. Do we change a fundamental part of Union history whenever someone coughs up money? And what about the alumni that died in wars and were honored with the Alumni Gym and Memorial Chapel (World War I) and the Memorial Field House (World War II)-- do we wipe out our memory of their contributions? We didn't with the Alumni Gym. LETTERS Don't Waste Your Breath on Pornography To the Editor: Returning to the infamously docile undergraduate com- munity from which I have been briefly absent, I recently foWld an embattled Union student body -- but ever a matter of import? Indeed; yet por- nography is the inconsequential adjWlct of the true polemic issue. The concept of censorship is the tantaxnotmt concern. Those who contend that pornography exploits women are correct, as are those who maintain that men are just as readily used as objects iA the pornographic media. Jt is clear that the human being is ex- ploited here, yet to those feminists who adamantly believe that the woman is the predominant object of ex- ploitation you may continue to do so. That issue is unimportant in the argument at hand, so stop wasting your breath and our time. Undoubtedly you w1H realize that our wonderful Shaffer Library contains many volumes of works documenting humanity's sordid history of exploitation - included among which are writings of the Marquis de Sade himself. Was it not Union that purchased such docwnents? Is it not Union which offers these works, in- sufferable as they may be, uninhibited and uncensored to its students? Society's reprobation of such tastes and principles is irrelevant here. What is germane, however,. is that the writings of su:ch thinkers as Immanuel Kant as well as those of the Marquis de Sade must be, and are, available to th.e student. If, per chance, a student wants a book, bet it righteous or repugnant, that is not on Shaffer's hallowed shelves, Union wiU surely ship it in (whiie of course footing the btll). It actually behooves Union as a nonsectarian un- dergraduate liberal arts in- stitution to mani£est any and every facet of the Wliverse in which we exist, no matter how deplorable that view may be, to its mature intellectual com- mWlity. In such a setting, more reprehensive than the subject matter itself would be the censorship th.ereo£. Is that not what you S.A.P.s mtend to achieve'? Your holy crusade against injustice is in fact praiseworthy, but when it involves precluding the rights of others it is downright selfish. If you don't wish to see the movie, don't go. If you don't wish others to see the movie, tell them so. Do not dare, however, attempt to take away the rights of others simply because they are inconsistent with your own moral convictions - especially in Wl institution insuring those very rights. Furthermore, S.A.P.s, have you the right to dictate what one does in privacy? If the movie was to be shown in the library courtyard, your obj.ections would surely be noted and well founded. However th.e auditorium possesses these fantastic wonders of carpentry magic; we call them doars. It would be so very simple just to close them. lf necessary, big signs reading \Warning: The Material Shown. Herein May Be Hazardous To Your Virtue, Integrity, and MaralUy\ can be posted, deterring any ac- cidental entry. No, it is not necessary for the colleage to condone the presentation of X-rated films, but it is indeed Union's responsibility to ensure the freedom of its students to ex- perience them. Adam Ross Kolker '88 \Shades of Gray\ Increases Awareness To the Editor: \Shades of Grey,\ the n'ew Mountebanks production, was a highly educational one that presented its ideas in a cap- tivating, witty, and painless manner. The various topics ranged from discrimination of all types to the heated issue of date rape. After the per- formance, a group discussion was lead by a faculty member who served as a moderator. Here, audience participation was enthusiastic especailly when on the subject of the discrimination of women. Quickly the group worked its way into a lively debate on date rape the faults and respon- sibilities of the involved parties. During the course of this discussion a joke was made about printing a list of rules for men and women to follow in such circumstances. The following guidelines are the result. First, when a person says letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis. All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all write.rs should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of tiTe letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. \no\ to another's advances, their words should be taken at face value. Secondly, people should mean exactly what they say, be it yes or no, to avoid giving conflicting signals during such moments. It was also proposed that to reduce the risk of date rape, both parties should state just how far they are willing to go before getting into compromising positions. These simple guidelines, in conjunction with mutual respect, should lesson the dangers of date rape here at Union. \Shades of Grey\ is a worthy experience not to be missed. If you have yet to see it, you can catch Thursday's performance and discussion at 7:30 P.M. in Davidson Lounge. Steve Cole '89 Ken Orosz '89

CONCORDIENSI~, February 11, 1988 Page 13 LETTERS Separate Schenectady Fa~t From Fiction Forum Member Shown Negligent To the Editor: To the Editor: We would like to respond to Ra:Ymond J. Holst's letter in the F'e1;>ruary 4 issue of Con- cerdiensis. Specifically, ~on­ cerning his comment regarding .the so-called Dan the Doid. We realize that almo.st. every eoliege , in the United States ' routinely maligns tbe town or eity in which that college is located and e$pecially the eitizens.ofthat community,. We, b.owever, take offense to Mr. ·Fl()lst's ~ssumption that a Schenectadian is somehow without the- morals or self- eontrolthat the exalted students ~f Union possess. To suggest that vi~wing a pornographic fi:lm would somehow im· mediately transform ban ·and !lis son into two depraved, salivating rapists~ does not say mneh about Mr. Holst's knowledge about Schenectady or about his fellow human beiings in general. Although .stereotypes pervade olll' ·society, we should be able to illustrates the :problems which Union has had throughout the years wnen relating to the city of Schenectady .. The students of Union have ty;pically had an insular and narrow view of Schenectady. These attitudes are most likely caused by the fact that Union students seldom venture out of the capus and its surrounding environs, except to return to their own hometowns. We understand that. most students' perceptions of Schenectady are baseil on trips to· the downtown area and are also based on the people seen there. Most students im• mediately assume that everything and everyone in Schenectady must be just like the downtown area and its inhabitants wuile totally discounting the fact that almost any downtown inner city area in the United· States is going to show signs of age and disrepair given the trend toward suburban malls, etc. Another fact which is discounted is that cities are composed of much more than downtown areas. A city can also contain parks, The Student Forum has · · sought to conduct itself with of y~ur \Letters Page,.\ .you include a discl.aimer reserving the Tight tG ·!\ej:ect libelous letters or lette!l's which do not conf~rm to stamdards of good taste: Mr. Ho 1st's letter and specifically bi;s· passage con· cerning Dan tfue Doid is indeed libelous to the ~CLiy and citizens of Schenectady- !lnd it is also in the very deptbs of bad taste. The .bigotrf Cltllltained in Mr .. · Holst's letter is 11ot an isolated incident. In tile very same issue (Feb. 4), the statements of the Freshman :Representative candidates contain a section by Mr. Hans Schw11rz in which he proposes a dome in which to keep out the :snow and the \doid$.\ We are willing to excuse the imm.aturity of the candidate b11l this type of thinking further illustrates the hostile view ,loward Schenec- tadians. student who had initially made the suggestion. Mr. Bemis said that he had brought the suggestion to the attention of the Student Forwn, and went on to say that tbe ~uggestion was responded to negatively by the Student Forwn.ln simple tenns Mr. Bemis has outright lied to a student he is supposed to be representing. This is no longer a matter of negligence, but of misconduct. Mr; Bemis lied not only in his own name, but also in the position of a representative to the Student Forum. . separate fact from fiction. The C()ncordiensis routinely runs satires concerning Schenectady and Schenectadians. When taken .as satire .they are an amusing break from the rigors of· campus life. However, when students begin taking this fiction as truth it starts a dangerous precedent. The word ''doid\ itself · residential1 sections and com• munity centers. Schenectady possesses all these things but we wonder how many Union students .have bothered to find them?· Finally, we would like to address the editorial staff of the Concordiensis. Near the bottom Concordiemils, in the past has been . extreme-lyr sensitive to libelous and Ullfair attacks on different gro:up&. We are sur- prised that thoe editorial staff would not ex:tend the same courtesy to· the people of Schenectady, c::t»nsidering that the students ()E Union live with Schenectadiar.s most of the year for better- or for worse. Sincerely, James W. Wood '88 P~ter A. Scott '88 · Robert li'. Lindyberg '91 See Events For _What They Are To; the Editor: In response to \Tell It Like It Is~. '\I do not wish to attempt to defend the sensational U.S. media. However, I feel it iS important to respo11d to several comments made in the article. Media coverage of the violence taking place in the West Bank a11d Gaza Strip is indeed \;tartling\ to viewers. However coverage of \ .. ,Israeli soldiers shooting and swinging clubs at rioters\ is not shown because it attracts an audience, rather because of the \star- tling'' nature of a violent con· flict which involveS one of the world's best trained militaries versus a group predominately made up of teenagers with ro-cks and an oceasiohal fire bJmb. · The focus on violence could perhaps be explained by tbe concerns of many related to recent events in the occupied territories. The response of the Israeli government security forces to demonstrations by Palestinians in the occupied territories has resluted in over forty deaths, hundreds of in· juries and thousands of arrests. This violence should raise many concerns to all those who believe in the basic human rights of individuals, and ~ the imparti~ application of a single standard of human rights to every country in the world. The specific concerns raised are: 1) The arbitrary arrest of large numbers of Palestinians, including children. 2) Incommunicado detention without access to family or lawyers. 3) Unfair military trials. 4) Killings, beatings and the excessive use of force during . demo~strations. 5) : Dep01rtations Palestinians to Lebanon. of As a person w.ho is aware of the \~ackgroUild and history\ behind the Arab-Israeli conflict I feel that it is :important to see recent events fo~ what they are. I feel that Isr-aoeL has a right to exist and am mt»t hitter to the state of Israel. Yet I also believe that the Palestinians have a right to be r.ecagnized as a people and gi v~m the autonomy of which they 'are 4eserving. It is most definitre tnat there are no facile solutions to tbis very complex probll~m. I do not condone violenc~ yet I hope that perhaps recent events can serve as an impetus t{) generate a creative solutltOn which would lead to peace for both Jews and Arabs in this. r-egion. Fraces M. Czajka '88 Political Science Dept. Pre-Registrati·on' The Political Science Dept. wishes to remind non-majors interested in taking one of its ' courses that every course except PS 10 is a card/list course. If you wish tO: ~e one o! . more P.S. courses, you must complete and submit a preference form that Will be avail- able in the Political Science office (SS 216) ~n Friday, Febru~ry 19. The complete~ forms should be returned by 4:30p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 24. ~1s~s of those a.c()epte~ m~ courses will be posted on Friday morning, Feb. 26. PermiSSion cards Will be d1stn- . buted on 2/26 and Monday 2/29. PS 10 (Introduction to P~litic&), a course that 'bears no departmental credit for Political Science majors, is a first-come, first serve~ course with a firm enrollment limit of 50. You should not ~\l.b.m1~ the preference form if this is the course you want. Just wait. \lllbl your pre-registration appointment with the Registrar_ MBA COLLOQUIUM WINTER 1988 Bailey Hall, Ro6m 312 Thursdays, 3:45pm FEBRUARY 11 -\How lo Get People to Send Money to a Post Office in Albany, Ne'N York' Debra Bevier, President and Chief f)(ecutive Officer Key Bank, lJSA, NA FEBRUARY 18-- \The VA System: Centralized Health Care That Works\ Clark Graning!:!r,, Medic.al Center Director Veteran's Admm1nlstration Hospital· Albany Get a clue. Get an e • op1mon. R:EfiD C 0 N Cll RD I ENS I S · News Analysis, Page.2 · professionalism and to increase contact with the student body. This direction is .a credit to the officers and the majority of members.of the Student Forum. Unfortunately, one member of the Student Forum has chosen not to follow this example, sophomore representative · . Keith Bemis. Mr. Bemis has not only been negligent in his duty, but he is also guilty of misconduct. A member of the sophomore class asked Mr. Bemis to present a suggestion to the .Student Forwn. Mr. Bemis readily agreed to present the suggestion at the ne:xt Student Forum meeting. At this writing three Student Forwn meetings have passed and Mr. Bemis has not yet presented the suggestion. J,Vlr. Bemis has therefore been negligent in the perforinance of his duty as a representative to the Student Forum. Following this Mr . Bemis chose, for unknown reasons, to report back to the I encourage the Student Forum to take appropriate action against Mr. Bemis. The reputation of .the entire Student Forum has been undermined by this unfortWlate incident. Sincerely, Kevin Decker '90 Editor's Note: As confirmed by Student Porum President Michael Hiller, the suggestion was to install ph011es on the outside of donns. This issue has not yet been presented to the Student Porum. ·,: :The:·PilbHc:'Speakiri'tlCommittee would :: ,like to cohgratut~tefthe winners of ·. · · . ·· .. ·,:Friday's cOmpetition: .. I·· .. •·•· · • ·• ,~istPiaoo:C~lie Siotoik , .2fid Phic(;i.Tiht Matthews. • :< · ·· · · 3td :Pliic.e:t()m Coleman · w~>V'i6Utd :atso·:nkefo:extend: a special.··: :< ·-thanks tO the Dutch\ Pipers and all those· · ·: whh qontrtbuted to the success of the competition. Usa (3alati, Nilgun Yigit · · :Scott :oavis · Corrections for the Finals Schedule MONPAY. MARCH 14 • 2;00-4:00 P.M. . CSC-040-01 -Machine&. Assembly Language· F. Fedelighi • NWSE 014 PSY -037 - Psychology through Literature - Calabria · P¥Cll 2()4 PSY -050 - Educational Psychology - Stanhope · PYCH 213 SPN-010-01 -Basic Spanish I- Vini.ck- HUMN 117 SPN 010-02- Basic Spanish 1 ·Noel-Gosh • BUTR 106 TUESDAY. MARCH 15 - 8:30-10:30 A.M. EC0-042-02 -Macroeconomic Theory & Policy • E. Motahar · SSCI 112 TUESDAY. MARCH 15 · 2:00-4:00 P.M. SOC-010-01 - Intro to Sociology· J. Hartman· SSCI 1()3 THURSDAY. MARCH 17 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. PSY -024-01 - Social Psychology • K. DeBono - PYCH 113 . THE FOLLOWING COURSES. HAVE COMMON EXAMS WITH THE EVENING DMSION: CSC 135 - Operating Systems - G. Williams · E:xam will he given TIIURSDAY,MARCH 17 -·4:30~:30 in room HUMN 115 CSC 140 - TheoJY of Computing - D. Hannay · Exam will be given TUESPA Y, MARCH 15 - 4:30-6:30 in room SSCI 105 The Bloodmobile will be held Feb. 17,18, and 19 in Old Chapel 11 a~· 5pm Call x6118 for an appointment • I .. -

CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1988 Page 13 Separate Schenectady Fact From Fiction To the Editor: We would like to respond to Raymond J. Holst's letter in the February 4 issue of Con- cordiensis. Specifically, con- cerning his conunent regarding the so-called Dan tile Doid. We realize that almost every college in the Unit-ed States routiaely maligns the town or city in which that college is located and especialtly the citizens of that comnnmity. We, however, take offense to Mr. Holst's assumption that a Schenectadian is somehow without the morals or self- control that the exalted students of Union possess. To suggest that viewing a pvrnograpllic film would somelmw im- mediately transform Dan and his son into two depraved, salivating rapists, d~es not say much about Mr. Holst's knowledge about Sehenectady or about his fello-w human beings in general. Although stereotypes pervade our society, we should be able to separate fact from fiction. The Concordiensis routinely runs satires concerning Schenectady and Schenectadians. When taken as satire they are an amusing break from the rigors of campus life. However, when students begin t a :king this fiction as truth it starts a dangerous precedent. The word \doiod\ itself illustrates the problems which Union has had. throughout the years when relating to tbe city of Scbenectady. The students ef Union have typically had an insular and narrow view of Schenectady. These attit11des are most likely caused by the fact that Union stadents seldom venture out ofthe capus and its surrounding environs, except to return to their <>wn hometowns. We understand that most students' pel:\ceptions of Schenectady ar'e based on trips to the downtoV'Vll area and are also based on the people seen there. Most students im- mediately assume that everything a11d everyone in Schenectady m11st be just like the downtown area and its rnhabitants whHe totally discounting the fact that almost any downtown inner city area in the United States is going to show signs <1f age and disrepair given the trend toward suburban malls, etc. An()ther fact which is cliscounted is that cities are composed of much more than clowntown areas. A city can also ~ontain parks, residential sections and <:om- rnunity centers. Schenectady possesses all tllese things but we wonder how many Union students have lx>thered to find them? Finally, we would like to address the editorial staff of the Concordiensis. Near the bottom of y(>ur \Letters Page,\ you include a discla·imer reserving the Tight to reject libelous letters er letters which do not confqrm to standards of good taste~ Mr. Holst's letter and specifically his passage con- cerning Dan the Deid is indeed libelous to the city and citizens of Schenectady and it is also in the very depths of baa taste. The :bigotr:y- contained in Mr. . Holst's letter is not an isolated incident. In the very same issue (Feb. 4), the statements of the Freshman Representative candidates contain a section by Mr. Hans Schwarz in which he proposes a dome in which to keep out the snow and the \doids.\ We are willing to excuse the immaturity of the candidate but this type of thinking further illustrates the hostile view toward Schenec- tadians. Concordiensis, in the past has been extremely sensitive to libelous and unfair attacks on different groups. We are sur- prised that the editorial staff would not extend the same courtesy to the people of Schenectady, considering that the students of Union live with Schenectadians most of the year for better or for worse. Sincerely, JamesW. Wood'88 Peter A. Scott '88 Robert F. Lindyberg '91 See Events For What They Are To the Editor: In response to \Tell It Like It Is, ''I do not wish to attempt to defend the sensational U.S. media. However, I feel it is important to respond to several comments made in the article. Media coverage of the violence taking place in the West Bank and Gaza Strip is indeed \startling\ to viewers. However coverage of \ .. .Israeli soldiers shooting and swinging clubs at rioters\ is not shown because it attracts an audience, rather because of the \star- tling\ nature of a violent con- flict which involves one of the world's best trained militaries versus a group predominately made up of teenagers with rocks and an occasional fire bomb. The focus on violEnce could perhaps be explained by the concerns of rnany related to recent events in the occupied territories. The response of the Israeli government security forces to demonstrations by Palestinians in the occupied territories has resluted in over forty deaths, hundreds of in- juries and thousands of arrests. This violence sbould raise many concerns to all those who believe in tile basic human rights of individuals, and in the impartial application of a single standard of hwnan rights to every country in the world. The specific concerns raised are : 1) The arbitrary arrest of large nwnbers of Palestinians, including children. 2) Incomm1111icado detention without access to family or lawyers. 3) Unfair military trials. 4) Killings, beatings and the excessive use of force d11ring demonstrations. 5) Deportations of Palestinians to Lebanon. As a person who is aware of the \~ackground and history\ behind the Arab-Israeli conflict I feel that it is important to see recent events for what they are. I feel that Israel has a right to exist and am not bitter to the state of Israel. Yet I also believe that the Palestinians have a right to be recognized as a people and given the autonomy of which they are deserving. It is most definite that there are no facile solutions to this very complex problem. I do not condone violence yet I hope that perhaps recent events can serve as an impetus to generate a creative solution which would lead to peace for both Jews and Arabs in this region. Frances M. Czajka '88 p~o~l~itui~ca~l~.~s~c~i~e~n~c~e~D~e~p~t~--P~re~-~R~e~g~is~t~r~a~ti~o~n' The PoliticalSeience Dept. wishes to remind non-majors interested in taking one of its courses that every course ex:cept PS 10 is a card/list course. If you wish to ~ke one o~ more P.S. courses, you must complete and submit a preference form that Will be avail- able in the Political Science office CSS 216) on Friday, February 19. The complete~ forms should be returned by 4:30p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 24. ~is~s of those a.c<:epte~ m~ courses will be posted o:n Friday morning, Feb. 26. PermiSSion cards will be distn- buted on 2/26 and Monday 2/29. PS 10 (Introduction to Politics-), a course tbat·bears no departmental credit for Politkal Science majors, is a first-come, first served course with a firm enrollment limit of 50. You should not submit the preference form if this is the course you want. Just wait until your pre-registration aJ)pointment with the Registrar. MBA COLLOQUIUM WINIE'R 1981 Bai,ley Hall, Room 312 Thursdays, 3:45 pm FEBRUARY 11-\H()W to Get People to Send Money to a Pos,t Office in Albany, New York\ Debra· Bevier, President and Chief E)(ecutive OHicer Key Bank, USA, NA FEBRUARY 18- '1he VA System: Centralized Health Caro That Works\ Clark Graninger, Medical Center Director Veteran's Admministration Hospital· Albany Get a clue. Get an • • op1n1on. READ CON C 0 R D I ENS I S News Analysis, Page. 2 LETTERS Forum Member Shown Negligent T() the Editor: The Student Forum has so11ght to conduct itself with professionalism and to increase contact with the student bocly. This direction is a credit to the officers and the majority of members of the Student Forum. Unfortunately, one member of the Student Forum has chosen not to follow this example, sophomore representative Keith Bemis. Mr. Bemis bas not only been negligent in his duty, but he is also guilty of miscanduct. A member of the sophomore class asked Mr. Bemis to present a suggestion to the Student Forum. Mr. Bemis readi:ly agreed to present the suggestion at the next Student Forwn meeting. At this writing three Student Forum meetings have passed and Mr. Bemis has not yet presented the suggestion. Mr. Bemis has therefore been negligent in the performance of his duty as a representative to the Student F()rum. Following this Mr. Bemis chose, for unknown reasons, to report back to the student who had initially made the suggestion. Mr. Bemis said that he had brought the suggestion to the attention of the Student Forwn, and went on to say that the suggestion was responded to negatively by the Student Forum. In simple terms Mr. Bemis has outright lied to a student he is supposed to be representing. This is no longer a tnatter of negligence, but of misconduct. Mr. Bemis lied not only in his own name, but also in the position of a representative to the Student Forwn. I encourage the Student Forum to take appropriate action against Mr. Bemis. The reputation of the enUre Student Forwn has beeR Wldermined by this unfortunate incident. Editor's Note: Sincerely, Kevin Decker '90 As confirmed by Student Forum President Michael Hiller, the suggestion was to install phones on the outside of dorms. This issue has not yet been presented to the Student Forum, The Public Speaking Committee would like to congratulate the winners of Friday's competition: 1st Place: Charlie Slotnik 2nd Place: Tim Matthews 3rd Place: Tom Coleman We would also like to extend a special thanks to the Dutch Pipers and all those who contributed to the success of the competition. Lisa Galati, Nilgun Yigit, Scott Davis Corrections for the Finals Schedule MONPA Y. MARCH 14- 2:00-4:00 P.M. CSC-040-01- Machine & Assembly Language· F. Federighi- NWSE 014 PSY -037 - Psychology through Literature - Calabria - PYCII 204 PSY -050 - Educational Psychology - Stanhope - PYCH 213 SPN-010-01- Basic Spanish I- Vinick- HUMN 117 SPN 010-02- Basic Spanish I- Noel-Gosh- BUTR 106 TUESDAY. MARCH 15- 8:30-10:30 A.M. EC0-042-02 -Macroeconomic Theory & Policy- E. Motahar- SSCI 112 TUESDAY, MARCH 15- 2:00-4:00 P.M. SOC-010-01 - Intro to Sociology - J. Hartman - SSCI 103 THURSDAY MARCH 17 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. PSY -024-01 - Social Psychology - K. DeBono - PYCH 113 THE FOLLOWING COURSES HAVE CO~MQN EXAMS WITH THE EVENING DIVISION: esc 135 - Operating Systems - G. Williams I E:xam will be given TIIURSDAY, MARCH 17-4:30-6:30 in room HUMN 115 CSC 140 - Theory of Computing - D. Hannay - Exam will be given TUESDAY, MARCH 15- 4:30-6:30 in room SSCI 105 The Bloodmobile will be held Feb. 17,18, and 19 in Old Chapel 11 am· 5pm Call x6118 for an appointment

. P11ge 14 -· .'\.A.I 0 . ~·--··''\\\\'·· - ~+ .lhJZ. u:ords rtgh+ ., ., ., •.• THE WRITING CENTER A-J CONCORDIENSIS, F ~IJruary 11, 1988 I MOHAWK SOARIN'G CLUB lhe MOHAWKSOARING CLUB announces its 1988 Ground School Course for anyone interested in soaring flight. The course will oonsist of 10 lectures, two hours each, with the FAA Written Examination adrtlinistered at the· concluding session. 111\lllectures will be presented by FM Certified Flight Instructors (Glider). The Groul'ld School is · open to the public free.of charge as a public service. The schedule of clao;ses .follows: ' .MIE .IQElQ , ' Feb.16 Performance Considerations Flight Instruments Meterology Launching of Gliders Soaring Techniques Feb.23 Mar.1 Mar. a Mar.15 Mar. 22 AprilS ! ' April12 FederaiAir Regulations/Medical Factors General Airman Safety Contest Flying/Flight Badges April19 Official FAA Written Test 1 Place: Rensselaer F!oly1echnic Institute room 5312, Jonsson Engineering Center Troy, N:V i 1 • .,. 7:00-6:45 p.rn_ : :, '• Cos. .Charge Instructors.: the course is under the supervision of FAA Certified Fliahtlnstructors. 'The 8uppo~t amu.p for- G.rLevi.n.tJ :Students wtq meet J\w. 16 ' g;t B:oh in tfae , : :ltdiAJious Pw-ol:f•c;Jms Offwe. 'Lf you. f\We.n.tJ:y Wst someone cCose. t.o y()u-, WE wou:Cc! l:ikEro hcl:p. Union College BLACK HISTORY MONTH Program of Events \EYES ON THE PRIZE\ Film Series onthe History Qf·lhe Civil Rights Movement 1954~1965 Tuesdays, :February 9·16·23 College Genter 406, 7:00pm· \THURGOOD MARSHALL: THE MAN'' Taped Interview with Carl Rowan, comme~tary by Professor William J. Daniels Thursday, February 11 WRUC TRIVIA College Center 410, 7:00pm ASSEMBLYMAN ARTHUR EVE \Minorities in American Education\ • Monday, February 22 begins Sunday, 8 p.m. Tune into 89a7 Sunday at 8 p.m. College <:;enter Auditorium, 7:00 pm \DANCE MUSIC WORDS IN LIFE\' CABARET Thursday, February 25 College Center, 1 0:00 pm to play TRIVIA '88. 90 questions wilt be asked this Sunday, and 70 on each of the following two Sunday nights, at the same time. The 1lrst caller to get through wins a prize for him/herself and a point for his/her team.The t~op teams ln each cate- gory win some pretty serious prizes. (. - · P· C' ''I r. c·>u·J 7.· .)u.l >Jt\ c. ,..._·. · .._ Please take a moment to answer the following questions: 1. Are you clueless about what you want to do with the rest of your life? Y_ N_ ;2. Do you think an internship would help you get expe~ience, and therefore help you get a better job? • Y_ N __ · 3. Have you ever wanted to help the community, blJt didn't know who to contact? Y_ N_ . 4. Are you so busy, you feel as though you can't doevote much time to an internship? Y_ N_ 5. Afraid to apply ft>r an -internship because they're too competitive? Y_ N_ If you checked NO to all of the above, then don't read any further. If you checked YES, then check out the VOLUNTEER INTERNSHIP BINDER at the Career Development CEnter. Teams may be· formed in each of the following 3 categories: Dormitory, Independent (Genera·lly a floor), and Fraternity/Sorority/Literary Society. Total prizes value over $2,000. Organize your teams today and get your phones and ra-dios ready Sunday night! The internships NOW available are diverse. Here is a sampling: Administrative Associate Peer Covnselor Legislative Analyst News Ecfltor TV Traffic Assistant Teacher's Aide PR Project Coordinator ComputerProgrammer A typical Internship Project... • lasts 5 to 10 weeks • requires 4 to 1 0 hours per week .• is within walking distance • requires no prior experience All projects were created expressly for Union Students, in conjunction with the Schenectady Human Services Planning Council. Internships are located in human service agencies. If you're interested in an internship project, contact the CDC at 370-6176 to make an appointment with TerrilL Or contact Terrill directly at 382 ·TSfiO. DUTCHMAN'S DINNER Every Friday Evening / I Reserve Early, so not to be disappointed Reservations accepted till 5:00 p.m .. on Thursday. Mea:l cards must be punched befo.rehand to insure your reservation. WE HAVE TWO SEATINGS FOR YOUR CON'VENIENCE - 5:30 AND 7:00 P.M. So stop by The Dutch ~_-follow early in the ·week - Upcoming menu will feature many of your favorites .I i l \ I l l

.I \ \ ! CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1988 Page 15 SCIENCE AND TECHNOL.OGY Sp11ce Capsule: . . Big Dumb Booster BY MARTY HECK A$ mentioned in this colwnn in the January 21, 1988 edition of Concordiensis, the history of the · United States' space program is one of •large p~ojecfs at a very high tec}malogical level. Some research may be moving in the other direction, such as the mini-space stations and mini· probes discussed in the article, but the U.S. space program still concentrates mainly on ad- vanced technology. As a result, when Shuttle flights resume this August,. hopefully, the cost of launching a pound into orbit will be well :over $6,000. Projected amounts for Shuttle launch costs at the inception of. the program in 1972 were $260 per pound, in 1987 dollars. The Soviets new Energia system is currently launching satellites into orbit for approxiJ:nately $300 per pound. The depen<ience of the United ·States on high technology space launching systems. drives the NASA and Pentagon launch budgets through the roof. There is a solution. The U.S. could shift. some of its funds to a project known as the Big Dwnb Booster. The idea is not new. In the early 60's a project called ·BAMBI, the progenitor of today's Strategic Defense Initiative, called for orbital based interceptors to destroy enemy missiles. The problem was the inrmense weight of such systems, and the expense required to launch them. Researc-h turned to ex- perimenting with huge, s4P,ple liquid fueled rockets that could launch large payloads v~ry inexpensively. The engines designed were powered by fuels that could be stored and burned at or near room temperature, and could be simply mixed and upon lucrative contracts from burned. In contrast, the 'Shuttle the federal government and has uses liquid hycirog~n; a very no desire to seek cheaper means difficult fuel to work with and and: lose funding. Then, in 1972, uses intricate turbo. pumps to the decision t~> power the Shuttle burn the fuel. The Big Dumb by solid fuel ~..-ather than liquid Booster would. use fuels .such as boosters killed all hope for the kerosene or similar simple fuels Big Di.Uilb &ester and other with no tutbines. Researchers simple, liquid fueled rockets. found that there was virtually Today, however, the project no limit to the size and power of is bejng · examined again. The these simple engines. high cost of launches) the Simple, liqUid fueled rockets Shuttle disastet', and the Soviets are also vastly safer than solid lead in space have led to the fueled engines such as the rebirth of the idea for a launch Shuttle uses. Though they tak:e system that can laWich large longer to start up, liquid fueled payloads inexpensiv.ely. engines may be easily shut Perhaps most importantly, the down at any sign of--danger by __ Strategic Defense Initiative, shutting o~f the pumps that mix: much like the BAMBI program and send the liquids to the of the 1960'-s, will .require huge combustion chamber. Solid payloads that can be launched fuels start easier, but are im- very cheapl~. 'rhe U.S. possible to shut down once they government allocated $93 are burning. The Shuttle did not million tothe Pentagon ~or have danger signals in the solid research. However, the original boosters because nothing could goal of the program was have been done anyWay. Even overlooked·. Secretary of the new escape plan included in . Defense Casper Weinberger the new Shuttle design is changed the name of the relatively worthless because it program from a \heavy lifter\ can only be used in urtique to \Advanced\ laWlch system. circumstances. not including Ideas being discussed call for any time the engines are firing launch systems more advance which is, by far, the most and more expensive than dangerous part of the launch present launch .systems. sequence. Once a solid epgine Until the federal government starts, it doesn't stop, and the and the aerospace industry Shuttle astronauts cannot realize that the emphasis on escape during this phase, so in high technology is strangling the event of another problem the U.S. space program, there is with the solid boosters, disaster not much hope for change. The is almost certain. Shuttle could continue to play The success of the research an important role in our space for large liquid fueled rockets in program, b-ut should not the 1960's was not greeted with monopolize it. Without a launch open ,arms by NASA, the . system li\te;., the. :B.ig Dumb. Pentagon, and the aerospace<~ Booster it seEims impossible for industry. Many were.suspicious the United States to achieve its at the idea of using anything goals in space and compete With that did not represent the the Soviet Union in the ex- pinnacle of technology. The ploration and utilization of the aerospace industry depends frontiers of space. Nuclear Failure By MARK HAUGHTON Nwnerous pressures, both on the financial and the moral side of the nuclear poWer issue, have diluted the success of nuclear power projects in the U.S. Although some stations have operated successfUlly, others have resulted in fiascoes or probleml,ltic operation. I will first ex:amine the detrimental pressul'ies due to the finance related constraints then con· elude with the underlying moral dilemma. The construction of nuclear power plants is a costly en· deavor. Grants, loans, and other state, national, and private funding must be tapped in order to finance such a project. Sites for construction must be approved, regulations met; and objectives and proposals clearly defined. Budgets are . developed that estimate time and costs in· volved in the construction. When all is ready to roll it is time for the internal and ex- ternal pressures to start deforming and diluting the original goals. The results are in the form of delayed con- struction, exorbitant budgetary increases, rising cost of materials, depleted support for the cause, and mor;tl con- troversy. All of these detrimental effects strain the most important elements af the construction and operations of nuclear power plants by reducing the effectiveness of safety regulations and precautions, eliminating previously predicted power outputs, and lengthening the task of the regulating agency. Unfortunately these setbacks cost more money. The inherent nature of the nuclear power safety threat demands extensive review of the projects both in and out of operation. In a sense, con- structing and operating a nuclear power station is similar to balancing the national budget. In each, objectives can be clearly stated and accurately comprised but due to an- predictable shortcomings and outside pressures, an emi result will never b~ obtained. Environmental groups at- tempt to restrain the con- struction of nuclear power plants while corporate in· dustries pmmote their com· 'pletion and operation. This creates a battle related to the two essential ingredients that humans base their existence on:. health and profit. There exists no resolution to this battle when we \Build machines that we- can't control and bury the waste in a great . big hole.;., (Sting: Dream of the Blll(l Turtles) And so the courts are laden with. the responsibility of resolving the issue. Suits from public and private concerns flow steadily in jamming the judicial system. The tools that are used to assure safety are usually what i:s in questiQn; this means regulating _the regulations ·that regulate safety. Again . tile result is a lengthy mess of pseudo ob- jective decisions that are supposed to be immune to the pressures of the system. Whether t-hey are or not remains a mystery. Blood ••• A gift from the Heart! The Red Cross needs our help now more than ever. In response to their plea, the Student Activities Office will be sponsoring a Red Cross Bloodmobile on the following dates: WEDNESDAY, FEB. 17 - FRIDAY, 'FEB. 19, 1988 All Bloodmobiles will be held from 11 am to 5 pm ill Old Chapel, 1st floor. Remember, there is no subslitue for human blood! Please take a few minutes to donate once again. Vie rely on our previous donors to continue their support. Call extension 6118 and make your appointment. . Thankyou in advance for your continuing participation. A timely note- there is absolutely NO WAY you can oontract AIDS from donating blood. · . . We know this is a major concern these days. \ ... and in 1/10,000 of a second, it can compound the programmer's error 87,500 times!\ from What's So Funny ·About Science by Sidney Harris Kindling of the Mind? By PRABm CJ[AKRABARTY Mental illnesses have existed throughout history. Our methods of dealing with them have become more advanced. We have learned much about the inner workings of the mind. Yet, many mysteries of the psyche remain. Dr. Robert Post and his associates have come close to solving another question relating to mental Hlness. Post's theory involves kind.lip;g• Kindling :occurs w}len a stimuli applied many times until the responses by the mind occur with no apparent reason. Kindling is :m extremely varied mental disfunction ac- companying health problems like drug abuse, epilepsy, and manic-depressive illness. The scientific .explanation of kindling involves electrical stimulation of the brain. If these stimulations are given over a prolonged period of time they permanently affect cells deep in the brain. This has been proven in the laboratory through ex· periments with lab animals. If animals are given enough electrical doses they will ex- perience seizures spon- taneously, with no apparent brain damage. Post has shown through his research that kindling's effects can be The safety strategies inadequate, effect is most likely not the significant downfall of the design. More likely it is the implementation of the strategies that is the cause of controversy. Recently I visited the Milestone Three nuclear power plant that is on hold while its budget is reconstructed. The amount of information that the safety commission must analyze is enormous, suggesting that it is an im- possibility to successfully manage the amount of material and therefore the safety precautions in ·general. Moral issues· are intrinsically difficult to resolve. A lack of safety and reliability admits the · possible catastrophic oc\ currence of a nuclear meltdown or radiation leak. These become the ingredients of this major moral dilemma. This dilemma is inflated by the existing public ignorance. These moral issues tendtosurface-and reside as the media sheds its light on nuclear related events. We all tend to forget the importance of the issue until the media reminds us. prod11ced by prolonged use of drugs lik;e alcohol and cocaine. Post's illstitute had reported an amaz;ing case of kindling a few years agl(). It involves a cocaine user, whC> took cocaine daily for three y~rs. The man did not experieruce any bad effects, until suddenly one day when he experienced profound anxiety effects. and terror with no apparent cause. The k:irtdling effect, is also seen in manically depressed ippividu~ls. ~~rtain patients have severe·. attacks o.f depression, and then go into remissi()n. They wiH then suddenly experience massive, rhytluni(! mania again, without reason. Post's theory may be particularly applicable to manic-depressives, because it may be able to predict the depressil()n cycles. With this knowledJ!e certain drugs can be given dlUI'ing light phases of mania· to prevent major at- tacks. The()retically, the most im- portant factor about kindling is its 1ecomciliation of two ap- parently- conflicting concepts. These· a1re the traditional view of menlltl illness due to earth· shattering life experiences versus the theory of mental illness lleing an acquired, or heredit!lry, trait. Private Physics Tutoring Stllart Pratt 377-6415 Tony 'Vrondissis 370-6831 GROUP HATES AVAILABLE Physics Tutoring For AOP Students M,W, TH 7-tO p.m. Humn 014 PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM Feb. 11,1988 Professor George Pallrano Department of Physics Ftlltgers University R~freshments: 4:30 Begins: 4:45 Room: Steinmetz 106

Page 16 CONCORDJENSIS, February 11, 191M A_R_T_S __ &_· _FI_L_M_s __________ ~-----··----------~~···~~ St_anding 'Ovation for Soprano Sylvania McNair By JENNIFER ENGLAND Tuesd~y, February 2, at 8. p.m., American Soprano Sylvia McNair performed in the eighth of 13 concerts in the Schenec- tady Museum Unimt College concert series. Joining her on stage was pianist Ted Taylor. Born in Ohio, McNair studied violin until her sophomore year in college, at which point she began voice lessons. She has since received a G.rammy nomination for her recording of Poulenc's \Gloria\ with the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra conducted by Robert Shaw. She has appeared in the Berlin Opera's \Magic Flute,\ \Poppea\ in Santa Fe, and in \ldo:meneo\ · in Saint Louis. James Roos of the Miami Herald called her ''that rarest .of recital treasures, a superb artist with a voice as beautiful in quality as it is comprehensive in style.\ In her concert in Memorial Chapel she performed nine pieces opening with Mozart's \Exllltate Jubilate\ and closing with a collection by Benjamin Britten called \Cabaret Songs.\ The audience was provided with the words to the songs as well as their English translations. Exultate Jubilate which varied from upbeat to peaceful was a good way to begin the show. It served as a vehicle for her outstanding talent and provided a glimpse of what was to come. One was quickly aware of her dedication to the music as her whole person was transformed during a song. Not only was her voice used to express the emotions of the song but her face and body were as well. This ex- 1 ,,,\.·'\\td pressiveness helped to un- . 1 ,,,{;;·~.,.,~ .•• ,., de:rstand the song even without the use of the words. Levity was added to the concert by several songs from the group by Poulenc and several from the group by Britten. The highlight .of which was probably \Tell Me the Truth About Love\ from a poem by W. H. Auden. During this song the audience was promp- ted to laugh out loud. The pianiSt did a terrific job of accompanying McNair in all of her songs. He spe.cifically stood out during \Er 1st's,\ to which he played a beautiful introduction and during \Lied vom Win de.\ Both of these were part of the set by Hugo Wolf. The audience was comprised largely of distinguished faculty and local residents with a few students in attendance as well. Miss McNair was encouraged to come back for an encore and received a standing ovation from several zealous viewers. PHOTO CLUB MEETING Mon. Feb. 8 7:30pm College Center 203 ARTS BRIEFS WORLD MUSIC AND JAZZ The third concert of Union's 1988 Improvisational Series will be a jazz repertory on Feb. 12 at 7:30 Jl.m. in the Ferfo:tming Arts Studio of the Art's Building. Tom Ross, Jeff Fuller, and Frank Bennett are the nmsicians. These concerts are free and open to the public. For more information, call 370\6201. ORCHESTRA TO PLAY AT UNION The Polish Radio Chamber Orchestra will be performing at Memorial chapel on Tuesday, February 16 at 8:00 p.m. tickets are avai.J.able at St. Adalbert's Church (393-7578); the Schenectady Museum; and at the do<Jr at 7:00 p.m. They are $10 a:ncl $5 for students. This is the ninth C<)flcert in the Schenectady Museum- UnionColleJleConcert Series. DELMAR PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST Delmar Publishers Inc. is sponsoring a photo contest for \ students 18 and over. Childhood Emotions 1s the theme of the contest and all subjects must be children under 6 in school or at play. Five Savings Bond!; wilt be .awarded to the winners. Entries must be received by April 30. 1988 and can be in color or black and white. Entry blanks and other info are available by 'Yfiting: DELMAR PUBLISHERS INC. Two computer Drive West, Box 15015, Albany, NY 12212-5015, Attn: editorial Department - Lynn. NEW MUSIC FESTIVAL '<88 SUNY Albany department of Music presents the \New Music Festival '88.\ It is under the direction of composer/pianist Max Lif~hitz Thurs. - Sat., Feb. 1&-29 at 8:00 p.m. in the University Performing Arts' Center. Tickets are $5 and $3 for students, available at the door. For info call442-3995 weekdays between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Concert Review:, Sting Dazzles J at RPI Fieldhouse · By JIM MACLAUGHLIN Arts Editor Sting, formerly of the Polic.e, played his first live venue in the Capital District in ·nine years last Saturday at the RPI Fieldhouse .in Troy. Though originally one of the founding members of the rock \minimalist'' movement of the e~rly Eighties, · Sting has branched out into a wealth of musical styles and genres, incorporating them all into his repetoire. The concert began with ''the La2arus Heart,'' which is the first song on Sting's new album .•. Nothing Like the Sun (borrowed from Shakespeare's sonnet, \My Mistress' eyes are n<Jthing like the sun.\). From that strong beginning the band, well powered and endowed, lallllched into a rousing version of''Too Much Information'' and 'the dance toss-away \We'll Be Together,\ then Sting lightened the mood with the swingy \Englislunan in New York.\ The remainder of the first set fl<rwed like fine beer from a tap as the songs came in sequed pairs. The band washed \History Will Teach Us N()thing;, into Bob Marley's \Get Up, Stand Up,\ followed b:y the set closing mutation of \Bring On the Night'' with \When the World is Running ])()wn.\ Sting was in fine vocal command as the musical styles ranged rom ice-cool jazz to I'eggae. Similarly, the band, Sf;()cltpiled Witb· talent such as Branford Marsalis on sax and Kenny Kirland on keyboards, were as smooth as a baby's. bottom as they jwnped aroWid · the musical range. The second set was a tad on the disjointed side compared to the first, but no Iess.pleasing to tile. sweaty crowd: Sting began '- with the mournful \They Dance Alone,\ a commentary on the tortuf'e of prisoners in Chile. The Jimi Hendrix tribute was stunning, not for the obligatory guitar solo, but rather for Marsalis' UI!Canny saxaphone improv that trailed. For the encore portion of the show, Sting provided old favoi\ites \Roxanne\ and \Message in a Bottle,\ but not · without complaining that he has to sing the former \Every bloody night of my life.\ The performance finished in for- ceful form with ''Fortress Around Your Heart.\ Sting was, in all manners, a master showman upon the stage. Only one element was excE!ssive, and that was the continuous freeze-frames of Sting's sweat glistened puss that remained on the large vide() screen after each song (thollgh a female party, who shall remain nameless, screamed \Ooooh! Look at Himl \). The band displayed consumate• professional skills and proficiency, . playing reggae, pop, hot-house jazz, be- .bop, and rock without any loss of power. Due special praise is the performance of Branford Marsalis, wh()se multiple- voiced hornwork adds that extri:l,. intangible \something that pushes the r:oncert past the excellent realm into the sublime.. His sax places distinguishable accents on the musi<:. especially in \Roxanne\ where it accompanies Sting's long guitar. Marsalis' .playi.ng add$ what the late Boston Globe colllmnist George Frazier called \duende\; .an· un- defillable measure of class and awe. Stillg left the crowd a · breathless; perspiring mass of humanity •. One hopes. that it won'Uake nine yea.t$ .f~r him to return to this area.

CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1988 Page 17 • . . ·. . . ' ~ ·. . . ' : .. 'F . . -· ;:;~·· ' \\ .. ' StiCk. With· Nick Anoth.er WRUC (89.7) Record Review By JOliN L YTELL (Nick Brignola Quartet with Schenectady Symphony Orchestra Sat. Feb. 6, 1988) The · Saturday show- at . Proctors' Theater f~atured a two-part .program. Troy saxophone native Nick Brignola shared ·a full stage with the Schenectady Symphony. Charles Schneider, Musical Director and Conductor, opened the orchestral portion of the unusual program with \Short Symphony\ NO. 4 by the American composer, Henry Cowell. As with eaeh com- position to follow, the \Short Symphony\ challenged the Schenectady concert com- munity. Based on Eighteenth Century ''Primitive'' works, the 1941 composition straddles the tonal non-tonal issue in a series of movements cornplete with a Cowell IriSh jig in the second movement. Schneider continued with \Firebird Suite\ Stravinsky's first commission which premiered in · 1910. Mor.e raucous and dissonant the moody piece opened with a rumble in the douOle bass. The ingenious textures, groupings, and rhythms shocked the audience at the 1910 premiere, but Stravinsky's incredible influence on the compositions of movie and then TV soundtracks !Ilade a ·familiar and con- temporary conclusion to the first program. Reeds master Brignola took the rearranged stage in a bluesy improvisational build up that included the theme of \Blue Monk''. The staggered ap- pearance of Kevin Hays (piano), Dave Santoro (bass), Dave Calarco (drums) worked as an appropriate transition from orhestral to the interesting dialogs of the accompanied quartet format. The lush arrangement by Chuck Esposito allowed the quartet to float over the or- chestra in \Just Friends\ by Klemmer-Lewis and in Antonio Carlos Jobim's \Once I Loved\. The complex \Times Lie\ by Chick Corea was deftly handled by a sensitive inferplay of percUSsionist Calarco and Mr. Schneider's timekeeping. Brignola's playing seemed especially lyrical during tht! evening as he switched ef- fortlessly from flute to alto to tenor to. baritone and back. Even Gershwin's \Sum- mertime\ was somehow fresh in the contrasting tempi on the Rayburn Wright scoring. Only an impromptu round of Charlie Parker's \Donna Lee\ by Nick and the band alone would satisfy the symphony goers' request for an encore num~er. ByCHIAPET Jonathan Richman And The Modem Lovers ~odernLovers '88 RoWldet Records Sometimes I like to suck my thumb when filing my tax reforms. I also enjoy playing Cowboys & Indians on Friday nights. Simple, child-like games are. a great way to maintc:lin a positive attitude in a society where the pressures of adult life can drag one down. Jonathan Richman and his band of Modern Lovers have be·en portrayers of youthful optimism for the last 15 years, and con- tinue to on their latest release, Modem Lovers '88. ''Gonna ride my bike past the rootbeer stand- Purple squirt gun in my hand\ are the opening lines of \I Have Come Out To Pl~y\ a song describing how a little boy rushes through dinner so be can go out and play some more before the sWI· goes down. This epitomizes the Rieh- m ani an approach to song writing.: take a youthful activity or a story to tell, embellish it with \Oooh\ and \Doo-wops\, then throw a guitar and a drwn or two in to top it off. Nothing fancy, just simple Mr. Rogers- style entertainment. Other ·THE VERDICT FEB.12~14 FRL· SUN. 7,9,11 ROaERT TOWNSEND FEB. 17 WED. 7,9,11 Robert Townsend portrays Bobby Taylor, a PAUL NEWMAN Paul Newman stars as a down-and-out, amulance chasing attorney who b~omes involved in a controversial lawsuit. struggling young actor. through a series of comic vignettes and with a great cast of young. actors and comedians, Townsend depticts the dreams, sacrifices and misadventures of a typical young Winning is Newman's last chance for black actor. redemption. WRUC 'fHE NEW 8.97 With the Iowa Caucus Results in, The New 8.97 finishes second to skin grafting procedures. When asked to comment, WRUC's music director said that, as embarrassing as it is, ~e did beat dog walking and sensory deperv~tion tanks, two close contenders. (I don't get either) Position Band 1 Robyn Hitchc:Ock 2 TheNils 3 OimperVanBeethoven 4 Jonathan Richman 5 Smead O'Connor 6 Cindy l.ee Beyryhill 7 Bealnik BeJtch 8 The Proclaimers 8.~7 The Contras ADYENTURE PICKS Mission of Burma Album Globe of Frogs The Nils Vampire Can Mating Oven Modem Lovers '88 The Lion & The Cobra Who's G9nna Sav:e The World At The Zula Pool This is The Story Ciphers in The Snow NEW .. AI>QS J,abel , A&M RockHotel . Pitch-A-Tent Rounder Chrysalis Rhino Industrial Chrysalis Whittier Slammin' Watusis, Balaam & The Angel, Nova PRQGRAMMIN(i NQTES _ . the athletes of the world will be .participating in WRUC's Trivia - .so,¢all you! It starts thas Sunday at 8:00p.m. Floor teams,.greek te~sor indepen~ent group~ of friends rna~ enter. No registration or purchase necessary JUSt tune •to 89.7 FM Th1s Sunday mght! MEGA .pnzcs (better ihan Christmas!) ARTS & FILMS Johathan R-ichman and the Modem Lovers: \Mode·rn Lovers '88'·' songs on this album describe the angels praising Harpo Marx' harp playing, a party in the desert complete with pack- rats, ara:nch called Circle I, and even a S()ng describing a new kind of 11eighborhood. In terms of his previous work, this album is different in many ways. The main difference is the overall setting of the songs. Since 1971 (the year when the original Modern Lovers gained slight recognition)., Richman has written mostly about New England. Massachusetts and Boston, his home town for many years. S()ngs like \Government Center\ . \Roadrunner\ and ' ' .. ' \The Fenway\ describe his love for the city and all it has to offer. This latest albl.Ul'l must of followed the SWlset, because it is all aoout California and its climate. I'm not sure if Rich- man moved or what, but this album :was recorded in Grass Valley and the songs are about his new love for hot nights, parties in the desert and late night dancing amidst the smell of Californian de'licacies. Maybe the song \New Kind of Neighborhood\ describes his move out west. Musically, this album can sound empty at times. With only two guitars and a drum, it's hard to fill all the audio gaps in a song. This, however 1 may be the new style Richman enjoys, since his previous record (It's Time For, on Upside Records) is very similar. It fits into the very idealism of his music- simple and imperfect just like a smiling, gapped-tooth boy playing in the park. So, the next time you become overwhelmed by the world and all its complexities and demands, don't reach for the bottle or the gun. Grab your bike and purple squirt gun, ride down to the park and play with all the youthful energy of a yoW1g lad who just got a new baseball glove. And, listen to Jonathan Richman's Modern Lovers '88 record, if just to remind you of your youth. Crossgates Mall Cinema 1 Broadcast News 2 Three Men & a Baby 3 The Last Emperor 4 Ironweed 5 Saiisfaction 6 Moonstruck 7 Shoot to Kill 8 G()od Morning Vietnam 9 Action Jackson 10 Serpent & The Rainbow 11 She's Having A Baby 12 F aial Attraction . ' Fri. & Sat. 12:40, 3:25, 6:30,9:50 1:50, 4:20,. 7:30, 10:00 12:1~. 3:20,6:40, 10:10 12:20, 3:30, 6:45, 9:55 2:10, 4:45, 7:50, 10:20 1:55, 4:30, 7:15, 10:30 1 :20, 4:10, 7:00, 9:45 12:30, 3:25, 6:25, 9.:20 12:45, 3:40, 6:35, 9:05 1 :30, 4:05, 6:55, 9:30 1:00, 3:35, 6:15, 8:50 12:25, 3:05, 6:15, 9:00 Monday , February 15th at 7:30 Behind the Arts Building (Haskins Lab) Our goal is to make weekly campus videos and ,present th~m In the CQII~ge Center. We need filmers and editors If you can pick up a camera, you're qualified! Any Questions C311 Pete atx6953 ONLY 12:25 12:10 12:30 12:25 12:30 12:00 11:50 11:30 11:45 11:00 11:30

I Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1!i81l WHO IS MEGA BELLY? Announclng the 1st Annua·l Union College Intramural· . Pizza Eating Cootest! Pick Your Champion and put- him or her against the rest. All Greek organizations invited. T'hurs. Evening, Feb. 18th - ·· 8 p.m. Dutch Hollow Restaurant Come Cheer on Your Favorite Mega Belly! The Prize: A Month's Free Pizza Compliments oi, Food Service .. See posting of rules in Dutc.t1 Hollow Restaurant The Jewish Student Union Invites All Students For Shabbat Dinner At The Kosher Kitchen On Friday Evening. Services Begin At 5 And Dinner At 6. The Biology Department and Biology Club Present: George Butterstein \lmmuniiQgical· Infertility\ WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1988 4:30PM ROOMSS104 REFRESHMENTS 4:15 PM FILM COMMITTEE MEETING When: February 23 at 4:30 Where: Room 410 College Center Topic: Select the films for next semester All Are Welcome • J .-' '. ~ • ' • - ~! ' < ' • • • ·-· '.. • ' • When you break away . . do \t with style. Your College Week in Bermuda is more than just sun, sand and surf. Right from the first outrageous \College Bash\ at Elbow Beach, it's a week of unrelenting pleasure. Spectacular seaside buffet luncheons. A calypso and limbo festival like none other. Smashing dance- til-you-drop beach parties, featuring Bermuda's top rock, steel and calypso bands. Even a \Party Cruise:' All compliments of the Bermuda Department of Tourism. Bermuda is all of this-· and mud1, much more. It's touring the island on our breezy mopeds. .. (Do remember to keep left!) It's joggingoq. quiet country roads-including an early morning 2-k \Fun Run',; from Horseshoe Bay. Ifs exploringthe treasures in our international shops, playing golfon eight great courses, and tennis on over 100 island-wide courts. But most of all, it's the feeling you get on a tiny, flower-bedecked island, separated from everywhere and everything by600 miles of sea. This year, break away with style. See your Cam- pus Travel Representative or'Travel Agent for details. •college Weeks packages not available week ofAprill0-16. REDMAN SPORT &TRAVEL 208 West 260th Street P.O. Box 1322, Riverdale, NY 10471 1 (800) 237-7465 In N.Y State call collect: (212) 796-6646 /

/ CONCORDIElVSlS, February 11, . 1988 Page 19 . . -.._,..._..,.._ ----·- ...... 'f'l :J{appy o/aCentine 's fJJay'l'l SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS Honeyw-ell's Futurist Coni• petition to reward ten college visionaries with $3 ;000 .for prtldictions about the year 2,013. If you are a full-tim«f college student and know something about today',s technology -- transport yoU:rself 25 .. years into the future and write an essay on what you will find. . The 1988 contest .is open to all full-time undergraduate or graduate students at. any ac- eredited u.s. . college or university. Students are asked t() devote the first half of the 2,000 word ess&Y. to one of the following areas': aerospa·ce appHca tions, air craft capabilitief!, control systems for coinmercial buildings, control . systems for homes, industria~ automation and control,- and microelectronic devices. The second part of the essay should renect the societal impact of the predicted changed. · Joan's sister, Gerri Borne at .. 372-3381. Tutorlal P.rogram-Union students can be used in the following areas at St. Jolm's . School.; Kindergarten Aides, · Library Aides, and Math and Reading on a one to one. Please . ·contact Kristin Nelson (386~ . . ~364). . Folk Group-,--AU singers and musicians interested in being . part oUhe Music Ministry at the · '1:30 p~m. Liturgy may meet with Friar Phil af 6:30p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Cop.firination-Saturday, April 30 at 5:30 p.m. Bishop Hubbard' will administer Confirmation at St. John the Evangelist Church. Sister Joan will conduct classes for Union students Mondays 3-4:30 p.m. in Room 404B College Center: Feb, 8, la, 22; 29, March 7, 28, April4, 11, 18. If a Union student wishes to be confirmed and cannot make this time please call Sr. Joan 6087 or stop by her office. To obtain registration .in- . · !!!!!!!!!~il!ii'l!=i!!=l!!!!!!'!!!!!'!!!!!!!!i!!!! formation write: Honeywell FuturiSt A.wards Competition, Box: 524, Minneapolis, MN 55440 • · CLASSIFlEDS or call toll fr€e 1-BG0-328-5111,· ----------- ex:tension 1581. CLUB NEWS Valentine Visit to Nursing Homes-Anyone who wishes to visit parishioners of St. John's· at Silver. Haven and Halbnark Nursing Homes to bring them .· candy and flowers for Valen- tine's Day may meet Sr. Joan at The College Center, Saturday, February 13 at 2 p.m. or call 6()87 for further information. . Homeworkers want~! Top pay! C.I. 121 24th Ave., N.W. Suite 222, Norman, OK 73069. Attention Union students! Join the \Capital District Students for Gary Hart.\ We need leaders and helpers. ·call · Debbie: 783-0734 paid for by \The Friends of Gary Hart.'' WAKE-N-BAKE: Negril Jamaica. Spring break $479 includes air, 7 nights, parties & taxes. Discounts for groups B+. Call 1-800-426-7710. '1¥ :J{appy 'lla{entine's ']Jay~¥ Typing· done by executive secretary. Professional results. $1.25-page. Call 399~383. For Sale: Cube Refrigerator (available March 11) $50.; B&W 13\ T.V., $25; AM-FM Cassette Walkman, $2Q. Call Lory 386- 4417. Wanted: Volunteer tutors to assist adult women in attaining their high school equivalency diplom~s. Any major, any year ·- flexible hours. For info call Nancy at 377~92~2 or Cheryl at 37~394. $1.00-page! Typing for students and professors. Experienced in all typing in- cluding medical terminology, thesis work. Call 355-3239. PERSONALS West'- You have \my undying death defying .love for you.\ Lee Ann Where are my retainers and alarm clock? That's okay, I'll just hang out with thelb. Puppy . (D.B.) Unemployed Friday night? .Drinkers, dancers,. bs' ers needed. Apply in' person, 1079 Wendell Ave .. after 9.:00 p.m .. Rugs, Hope you aced your first pledge test. YourBigBro THE WATSONS ARE COMING THE WATSONS ARE COMING JUNIORS SOPHOMORES freshmen If you are interested in winning $13,000 to travel anywhere and do anything for a year, then it•s a Watson you want. Come listen to someone who won o:r:e., and hear how you can win, too. Who: Melinda Phillips, Watson winner from Union, Class of 1986 What: A slide-lecture on her Watson year, \Political Theater: Mexico, Argentina, Columbia, Peru 11 Where: Room 410 College Center When: 8:00pm, Wednesday, February 17, 1987 Row: Any way you can Why: Are you kidding? P.S. Seniors.can come too, but it•s too late for you to apply! l LISTEN TO ... ... AND I r mnKeS fr!e I N/e I a.-Jic1\ WRUC's new bumper stickers--on sale today for 50¢, which will be donated to the United Way. Newman Club-Monday, February 15 from 7-8 p.m. The Newman Clu:b will host a conversation-social with Faculty, staffand their spouses. All welcome to attend. College Center Room 410. ·BLOOM COUNTY Shut-Ins-Any Unio~ College student who wishes to visit a shut-in of St. John's parish regularly during these winter months is asked to contact Sr . ...... ., •••• ., •• ··~··· CAP1i'1tN/ P~efitf P&f<tfON JletUJ llflelll? / ~71JNI?IM6 /JY 70 flKe/ I WHII-- WHflr HIT Me'! I HE-'S WWN A&llfN. CfiU 17-1€ MOK&f/§. / ..

..• Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1988 PERSONALS Mon, I love you. Lee Dear B-M: Happy V.alentine's Day - This year you're not 3,000 miles away- Love, Scoop Blue Triple: Three-ring circus, much? Sat. night - ROTATE! And on the floor too? Say • wanna buy your lover roses? Low on cash? Earn $$$ fast; 5 minutes. Psych. building 7-9 any time tonight 2nd fl. Psych. Matthew, BathrClom situation not good! So if I start to smell ...... L Marnilla, I hope you didn't think I forgot about you because of my secret v. Hope yours is a happy one as well. Love, Nilla Ricer, With your Floridian Fashion Flair, can you advise us on what we should be lookillg for in the ultimate DP dress? Is 100 percent cotton still in this year? Ro- Chhim, Are you blushing? Don't be so shy! Friedmonster - Rumon has it you're pledging another house ... one with a ''ski resort?\ -Your \neighbor\ GD Less tilan 24 hours. Forget the boy in the tree - you won't get him down in time! It's time to ask anything with 2 legs and a deep voice! Becky Cornen's was out of chablis on Sunday, can you believe that? Hope you had as mach fun as I did .. . tromping through the snow. 1051 EMERGENCY! Forget \Cheers\ - It's the dishes tonight at 9: 00. Be there! Streisan<I.- Watch out for those slow dances to Bee Gee songs with rifle-bearing soldiers. I miss ya like crazy. MAD Hope-- The binders for the con- · stitution came in. I thought it might make your day to know. Holding down the fort - get back soon! Hey Mr. Nice Guy- \Who can turn the world on with her smile? Who can take a nothing day, and suddenly make it seem all worthwhile? To Sheri, Jenn, Christine, and ~ura, Happy Valentine's Day from your favorite fan!. Love, Diane A.S.K.-This past year has been the most amazing ever! Let's do it. again! Kisses-KL. Munchkin & Dina: I just wanted to know what the hairspray supply is lookin' like. Cathy, hold all my calls, you know wnat to tell my public. Miss you guys a lot! Love ya, Karen Christine DesJardins: Happy Valentine's Day. We'll have a blast at the formal. Happy 14th. Delta Love: Secret Valentine Hi Dr. \J\: No more erotic personals - just want you to know I love you - even with the \weight gain\- and will always. \0\ \Wise Men Say ... \Or are wise men wrong? Definitely not! Too bad we can't stay in bed all day this 14th- maybe the ski slopes will be opportune? Mr. Politics+ Are there gar- dens in Iowa? - Dear \Ladies do you really think that your mockings of my facial ·expressions could parallel my intelligent, hand- somely sculpted pll$s. \ ... and joined the British ar- my.\ Rob L.++Never will forget your natural look hairdo when at the hostel in Dublin. Bag the mousse! Love, T & S NYHUS- We're beserk without you. Come back so we can jump through the top of yotir trunk! You know who Dllck! Look out! Cupid is a potentially dangerous fellow. Happy Valentine's Day. Love, Sunshine To our beloved B.I.A.- Bird-out! ! L2: We'll have none of that! But where were you when I needed a · · chair, hair spray, sunglasses, and S. W.? -stanley Stanley, Sawa, ~athy, Dina and little Jill 6 clueless ones roaming aroWld cancun! -little Una No chocolate this year? -or just none to eat, the \items\ in the frig would be great· with :!hocolate I Or maybe we'll C()mpromise: Love you always Becky Hannock--1 wanted you t<l know I've been admiring you from afar and now more than ever I want to let you know. Happy Valentine's Day· Your secret admirer You! Bring your friends. Earn easy money$$$ in five Iriinutes! Tonight from 7-9 any time! Psych Building 2nd fl. S-W-sDT seeks attractive man for date to formal. Must have table manners, possess social skills and be an able dancer. Please send color photo Box 258 Robin & Jen, Congrats to our . thrivLng thespians. we are · proud' of you and can't wait to see y0ou tonight. Love in G-PHI- B Stephanie B-A hidden clue from your secret valentine. · Read between the lines and you have tlle key to my identity. Do you know who i am yet? M- Revenge is sweet, but not as sweet as cookies and ice cream. . -snuffles · C.C.-l'm psyched you're my little &is & I'm looking forward to many fun times. LoveinGPillB s.s. Sir Im-Have a good day- the PET SHOP BOYS' song is only a Willie Nelson · remake anyway-Your Rick Astley fan- Lady('?) L. Gail, Long live your fraternity cocktail hour in College Park! Seniors-Next week a kick off for our class. Selected leaders, prove yourselves! Andrew, Exclamation points, comma, question marks and (squirm sweetie) period! Lin a Red I~ Thanks for three great weeks. Happy Valentine's Day! I M Ellen Frozen Yogurt Rossner. You had your chance for _free lima bean soup forever! · Long live Amel.\ican Health! Browne- Whet\e is my scarf? Thanks for tlhe many hours of discussion. I Wish you were going. R.B. Buddy Pledlin.gs-- . Mucilas gracias for the partee. Unfortunately you can't· kill us that easily. But, we did have fllll and you did us proud! -'l'he House With 14 weeks of life left please cherish every moment. -me. Daughter Sue, When you said before 3, you meant before 3 . p.m. of the next day, right? By the way, when are we. going to break :in our not-so~new shot glasses? Mom Baskin RobiD:, Now, we · can actually cllagncsis our own disorders! Chill sweetie! dinner at Gor- don's Lina .,'11-[appy o/a{entine's .'1Jay'l'l Look! Sting's taking off his jacket! And we were there ... Be Still My Beating Heart! Jenny, Remember •.. never pop those things! Yucky spiders- oozing out! I've missed you! Lina · Big little Sister Lisa, dinner and ice cream one night? · Love, little little sisterLina To R.C.N: the 2nd- I'd like to get to know yo11 better. Call me. S.P. Pebbles, how about a three o'clock spaghetti dinner· for one? Happy V-day, but who cares? -Bird . Kara Christ, You are my favorite deity in - the whole world from Vermont. Love, J. TBB, Yo, fellow buddies! I neve1~ · see you any more! Let's get together and do some English Beat, Mon. B•Eob Stan- You big ROTC meathead. I heard my crazy mop turns you on. Let's make another trip to your barracks. Love, Dina Hey you Blonde chic! Have a groovy Valentines! Love, Mar ... Steph, Well go throu.gh anything together! -Glad you're my roommate! Love--M. Happy Valentine's Day, Jen! We love you! 224 R. Alberto, complimentoni x John . Hopkins, Yale, UPenn e tutta la · · lunga lista. Su proprio forte. Love Mickey K.R. Friends, friends, friends .. We will always be! Love, your little sis Jen Rat--Maybe it is slimy, but it isn't worth .passing out over. Killer Happy Valentine's Day to you 3rd floor South guys-+ l! · -Marina Weezy~hugs and dog licks for Valentines-hm hm hm, Buddy and Muffin It's worse to step down than to not step at all! I'm waiting·for a step up. It won't be too tough. Strip Mexican at Chi ·Psi sw, • . Yes, we're waiting for the worm to turn ... it won't be long now. DDA Feb. 13- Happy half birthday, L. LoveM.B.

I II I l' t •'ffl{app!J i!a[entine's tJJaY'f'l Stillman- Dirt is·gettingloilely. We need puppy back .ABA'?! · Love, the Double-T·riple My Darling Bean, , 'ello,. Pet. Happy Valentine's Day, sweetie! -Je t' aime, ma cherie! L(Jve, Bob EVAN AND Sandy You got a ]Jersonal! Jeff, Rich EL ' ' Hope this Saturday is j1lSt .tile · beginning of many rnore to come! Love you very rnllcb.l· Lo-ve,AK Sorry I misse.d the Big No. 22 Leslie, Thanks for the help this • but did you e11joy the ~sundae? weekend. Sorry about your . rocky mad. .....;Mushugee Lfua, ooop. Say no :to the P- word! • Andayo Fresh, you are the man! Amigo 1 Dave, David, Wiki, Life as a coach may be . harder, but it's a lot safer than being a bowman. Despite what · yo11 think, you're doing a great · job. · Leslie, I think we both Vt'i:n best shopper awards for th..ose amazing sweatshirts! Love;,Lina C.A.F.D. Happy Valentine's Day. J love you. BMS ' Tort,. Let the good time!; roll. The countdown contin:ues. I'm sleeping RIGHT HERE,. d()ids, free drinks- Good t:hi:n€. 1st impressions don't last. L()ve ya, · Gleekon Jtos~~~w.-e. ~~d~. YJolets IU'e blue. Friendship-is sweet, aJJd :SD are you! It has been said, 'I always am true, to friendship a11:d life. Dav~, I love you! Fwzr little fore1gner Bush woman-I beard -Women's Crew Pat-Happy long distance Valentine's Day~ Miss ya! F. somewhere that .pigs :fl~ .•. does ~ that mean you're headin:i5 So11th ~ and. leaving me a ''stuffy !.l ·£! single? l!. Shrub ~ ~ . @ ~ ~ ij ~ ~@ ~ ·~ _&..~~ ®~ Scammaster Only 4 more weekstCl i'()Ck the ;-, Romper Room. Let tile party begin! ! Love yo11r -ex:·mighbor Jon and Steve, Dinner next week or aie you guys going to blow me off again? L Andrew, Eonk! Oop! and tile secret shake lives! LCJve:,.Lina Aru1-How about a q11ick game of strip Mexican? Congratulations to all Gamma Phi Big and Little ~i.Sters ! Sisters; bow about th!>'se Eetas. Aren't they the greatest'? You better believe it ! ! ! · Happy V~day to tile man that's \ours\! Hey Grey People- Bravo! Well done! -Melissa .an!! Craig Kirby_, Tea for two and two for tea And I'm Outta'' there! I Thanks for a good time! !' Love, The girls at 1049 University Wasserman, divoree proceedings in effect! Heard you're cheatillg on me in New York.. Love, Una Giggles & Sporto, K.K. to C.C. & we'll all meet back at H.B. L, H.B~ My 'personal' tutor, All Hail King Craig! l:Alng live · -.mudying and many trips to the King!: AmPm1 Thanks! -M Love, Lina Stanley, Nanny confessed to ~11 her crimes. Shel\eturned my money and underwear; Gladys Mama putthE coines in my eyes because I do11 1 t belive what I'm seei.,ng! Suddenly, btu:- dancing creates mystery holE~» in people's jeans~ . Freize, I've missed you! Love, me Clump! Clwnp! Clump! I said I'd be like a loaf of bread! Clump, Cllllllp, Clump! The 4 Aml,gos dde again-Oy Jill man, How's that laugh push-button you've got m your head? (Val • don't you jllst hate when that happens1) Sara, You jur;t can't take me anywhere! Klepto Page 21 .,., :J-{appy o/a{entine 's 'DaY'f¥ UC Track Team, Thanks for the thoughts. Szyd Little Chiwawa: Bet you thought I'd forget again but how could I possibly conceal this burning passion within my heart. Love always, Dork Dave's one day sale! Jackets and sweaters at low costs- Little Lina Gee, I'm bummin' like the dean. Are you looking for some kind of special vegetable dip? Come on! It's for my African zucchini plant! : M, Working on the night move T SMC, A rose is a rose is a rose- but dinner is another story. Happy Valentine's Day . Love, CAB Jeff, Studying with you has enlightened me! My salts, Love Yoar little Chucster I'm so happy we're together this VD-I LOVE YOU. Here's to a future filled w- many more special moments. Michele, Michele, Michele, Happy Valentine's Day! Let's get this business school & job stuff over already so we can have some fun!

'! '' Page 22 CONCORDJENSIS, P,e[)ruary 11, 1988 1 '\.-IE t'\vfT ST\Of \l.tct1l'lfi\NG' 2 \t~Hoc:EIT Ci+JL\>RFN 11 11 / T'he KaHah is here. The what? The Kallah. [t's an exciting retreat for Jewish students fre2lm Union College, S .. U.N.Y.A., R.P.F., Russel Sage, and others at Silver . Bay on Lake George. Sponsored by the J.S.U. Come join us. We're going places. CDC NEWS The School for Field Studies !Have. you ever consiaereo stuayH'Ig giraffes· lh Kenya, tropical r Ish in :A.'Ustra'i'J a, or grizzly bears In Alaska? You could have that opportuni·ty w l.th t~e School of Field Studies [SFS). SFS has launched more than 1 oo st:udent research teams throughout the w.orld, lmmerslna ·students a1rectly lr. . .the eco·system they are studying. Want more il'lformatton? Come t<l an informational session on February. 2::lrd·at I 1:00am at the CDC Semimr:Room. Cboos1ng a Mator Workshop Learn to assess yo\Jr Interests. skills and. values as well as 1dentHy valuable resources tl:lat .W111 assist you In choosing a majorJfuture career. :february 11 at 4:30pm.•.orFebruary 1·7at 7:30pm In CDC Seminar Room. 3 \~we Mvs-r StOP PE:sTRO'/rNG' T\t E fA~\ L·~/ \ ! l 11 \'\Je'Mvsl.fET ouR Anv11S'TO 4 Rf.\H-\Jr:LP Ttt-E Mo~ (ot>JSQ&l'(f- An you Interested In A Tea~htog Career? 'NeiV Y<>rk State Board or 'Regents ~nl10\JQces The Empire State Cha!l'enger Scholarships and Fellowships for 'J:.eachers and The Pau.l Do!Jglas Scholarships for Teacners. Application deadline: postmark~d March· 1 1. Uck up your application now at th~ CDC! / 0 r .ttMfRIOt L~! J /) · · 5 THE DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT is now accepting applications for part-tme employment. All shifts available. Apply in person Dutch Hollow Restaurant 9-5 C)Qsed S tgo-uos ror Companl es RecCI:ftiog ln Week G ~ February 15 Gom S!gp~Ups for Cortmanjes f3eqrult! ng In Week G- February 16 l!)tery!ew!ng Skills Workshop learn how to prepare ror ana preseot yourself effectively tn a11 .enlf}loyment interview. February 24 at 7.30pm. in CDC Seminar Room. ~!be f()Jiow Jog comoanles haye ooenln!JS st!JI available. They wl 11 be on a fi rst-(;orne, rtrst served basis. · · ·81astaod: & Bouck- 2/16- BS/MS1I'lrCE · ·Geary Corp- 2/17 • Any major with ability to program. ;Httre Corp- 2126 • cs majors ·New 'York Public Interest Research. Group- Any major 'New 'York State Dept. or Transportation- 2112- BS/MS m CE ·Brewer & Lamont- 2/23 BS In CE ·Connecticut Dept or Transportation- 2/25- BS In CE ·Gon Tel - 2/22- BA/BS In EC or IE 'Goodyear Tire & Rubb~r- 2/24 -·Any major ·!<lew It- 2/25 -85 In CE ·D 1 Brlen & Gere - 2/23- BS In CE ·06G Lat>s - 2/23- BS/MS InCH ·Sherwood Capital -2125- Any major ·Sfll'!Jer-Kearfott Dtvi~Lon • 2/24 - BS in EE ·111pJ ohn - 2126 - BS In Bl or CH cPeace Corps - 3/ I -Any major ·Sterl1ng-Winthrop • 312- BS/MS InCH -nomas J. Lipton.- 3/'4 ~Any major ·LJ:S. A lr Force Clv1llan Personnel l\'gm t. Center- 417 - BS tnEE or ME ·Polycast Technologies- 3!30- BS In 'HE ·E<il.f.Caotlonal Resources Group wm b~back on 318 rtrst-come. first-serve s1g11 up, Resume and transcript re(iulred. -5rafjuate·School: ,New York l:ln1vers1ty or Public Admll)lstra\1()1)- 3.(2 .. . ' Looking for a·change? Perhaps in what. you eat? C~me j.oin us in THE KOSHER KITCHEN and enjoy home cooked, kosbe·r meals. For Full-Time members, THE KOSHER KITCHEN meal plan costs less than the 19 Meal Plan. Consider us. THE I<OSHER KITCHEN Something Different . ..,..,..,..,..,..,._.. \\ .,.,.,.._,..,._,.._, ... .., .,. .,. .,. .., .., _.. ..,. .., ._.. .,. \' HOT SOUP DAILY Now At The Rathskellar Gan~t stay? Have it to Go! · All deli & grill items made to order. While you're there, register to win a beautiful box of candy for your fa.vorite Valentine!! Drawing will he held Feb. 14, 1988. And if you haven't tasted our homemade breads, come by for a sample. Ham & Cheese, Pepperoni~ Sausage & Broccoli ., .., ._,. ~ .., . .., . .., \' .., .., \' .., .,..,.._. ... ~.__,. ._,.,..,.,. • .,._. ...... i

CONCORDIENSIS, February 11, 1988 Page 2.3 By DAVID MORRISON Many times great athletes tend to get overlooked because their team is not havirlg a championship or .great season. Although the Union swim team is t1ot having a banner season aU ·of its members are con:- tinuously striving for greatness and .excellence~ · Leading the Men's Swim Team in this effort is thts week's n.Athlete of the Week\ freshman Tom Kim. Tom is an economics major 'from Pleasantville, · NY. Hackley School, yrhere he was an All-Section Swimmer in ;86~'87. This past weekend Tom · put himself into the Union record books by setting a new school record in the 200 meter free-style. 'Tom br,oke the . old record by Kyle Cotagno with a Five seconds or ·five inches. That is what Union track coach Russ Ebbets said could -make the difference in last Fripay's Capital District meet. Those words turned out to be prophetic as host Union ff.nished second out of the five teams entered. The Dutchmen's 84 points put them only 2.5 points behind victorious RPI. Defending champion Albany State was third with 74.5 ·points. It was impossible to find a · Union athlete who performed poorly on Friday night, as ·everyone understood the im- portance of the meet. Senior Jim LeBron came of age Friday night, as his double Win was clearly the highlight of the meet. LeBron won the 1500 meters for Union in a personal best 4:09.0, then came back to set another personal best in the grueling 3000 meters, . with a gutsy kick cacryi:ng him to Hocke,y ••• Continued from page 24 into third period· as if not con- tent with the three goal lead, managing to kill a shy in- terference call on Scott Cyr midway through the final twenty minute interval. Although the Dutchmen's play continued to·· be above. par, especially noting Guy Logan's strong efforts in the Colby slot, Kinghorn's shutoat would not last. With just over five minutes remaining in the contest the Mules' Matt Elders was able to stuff the puck past Kinghorn during a pileup in front of the net, cutting the Dutchmen lead to3-1. · In a last chance effort to close the. gap, Colby coach Mickey Goulet opted to yank goaltender Jim Reduto .and - freshmen wonder Terry Campell was able to ram home an open net goal with twenty four seconds remaining, making the Uni~n lead 4•1. Campell's goal, his tenth of the year, was assisted byTemush and Logan. · AthJete of the Week· Tom Kim time of 1 :50~58. Torn is given this distinction not only due to his new record, but he also · remains undeated in au of the events he has entered with the exception of the relays, with a record of 16 wins in as many • • victory in 9:00.2. LeBrou's performance w.as certainly not the only strong one for Union, however. Junior Steve Hayes was another double winner for the Dutchmen, picking up first in the 400 with a time of 53.3, then coming back to run an ex:cellent leadoff leg for the victorious 4x400 relay team. Sophomore Chip Silver an- chored that relay team, while adding places in the high jump; triple jump, and 400 meter dash over the course of a busy night. Freshman Tom Lombardoni turned in a clutch performance in the pole vault, clearing12 feet to earn a victory in that event. Sophomore Mike Tremante also tries. Tom is also on the verge of setti!lg other school recor<ts, including the 100 and 500 fre-e- style, both of which his best is wjthin fottr-tenths of asecond·()f breaking. Union swim coach Bob McGee has a lot of faith in llis rookie s:wimmer. He feels that he coUld ,place Tom in any type of race,. and Tom would win. It is due to this versatility in the sport th~t makes Tom an ollt- standin(l athlete. Tom J:tas qualifie!l for the States wbicll will be hEld at Colgate February 24-27. T«Jm and coacil McGee are hopeful that he will swim well enDugh to make tbe Nationa:ls. We extend ()Ur congratll).ations to Tom Kim f~>r his outstanding efforts~ and we wish Tom, bis teammates «:1nd Coach JMcGee success in tbe remainder of their season. . so·close! picked 11p a key win for Unioll, leaping l3.09 meters to win the triple jwnp. Andy McMahoa's 12;08 tos~ in the 35 point weigl!t gave hlm another Win th!it event. M~:Mahon added' a 12:1ill meter tilrow in the shot put to pick up «:1 fourth in that eve11t. Strong performances we!l\e also tumed in by the freshmaa conUngellit of Zak Go bel, Mik:e Martine~, Doug Martocci, Bol> Lindyberg, Dave Shepard, G11y Burman, and Will Allen. With injuries to key athletes J e:ff Barker 21nd Jeff Simkins, the team knew that it would need its best periortnances to elate to have a chance at winning. Obviousl::y, it got them. ·~_ ... ··>: Overall a fine win from a solid ~ performance backed by wall- o like goaltending on Kinghorn's ~ part (25 saves, 96% save per- tl.. centage). A brief reminder that fourth ranked Hamilton travels to Schenectady torught for a 7:30 prn game against · the Dut- chmen. Hamilton beat Union 6-4 in a heartbreaking loss three weeks ago, Shelling Kinghorn With ORANGES after scoring their first goal. Will Section Q retaliate? Junior Dafenseman Scott Manley winds up to send a cannonball at the Colby net. <trnncnrbitnsis SPORTS Speaking of Sports By CARL R. FRIEDRICH JR. With all the talk of how bad the world of sports is behaving itself these days, it is easy to generate a biased opinion of sport in general. College .sports have taken on a bad rap as well, it charged' witb either paying its athletes ()r letting them slip by · in the cl~ssroom. This is too bad, and mostly wrong- college sports are one of the greatest things aoout college itself. College sports are a tremend()us asset to its com- munity. One of the biggest things they do is generate in- volvement within the campus. Athletes and non-.athletes alike can share in the ex:citement and intensity '()I a collegian sparting event. This mutual sharing expands even further when one considers the wide variety of athletic opportunity available. For example, at Union alone, there a~e 21 intercollegiate sports and over 60 intramural sports. These numbers alone might indicate that sports _are the number one activity on campus. College sports epitomize the theory .of a sound mind, SoWld body. Athletics, of course, are a key to good health, but especially in college, they are even rrt()re important. At college it is easy to slip into that ''Freshman (or any year) fif· teen\ ordare I say \forty\? In grade school, athletics are required, here they are not. Without athletics, a person can easily d() serious damage to themselves- maybe not today, but in the long run- not 'to mention social abuse from peers. While a \jock\ should not spend all of his time on the athletic field, a less inclined person should not spend all his time in the library, turning into a mass-at worthless carbon, to speak on their terms. College athletics also generate money and attention from the outside. Television contracts from football gBfiOeS built a new library at the University of Michigan in 1986. \While a 'jock' should not spend all of his time on the athletic field, a less inclined person should not spend all of his time in the library.\ The publicity a college team can generate is enormous. On the Division Three level, which is Union's, sports draw top athlete-scholars from all over the country. Their desire to attain a fine education while pursuing their athletic disciplines can only raise higher the reputation of Union. Exposure in sports also sup- ports another idea, that being how important .it is for an ex:- posed program to also be a successful one, not a per- petually \rebuilding\ or \bad breaks\ one. Because of its popularity, if anything, collee sports are vital for what kind of image they can have on future generations of student athletes. It is obvious that almost all athletes will not achieve professional status, but almost all will have an education which is the ultimate goal. A positive athletic example can make the dif- ference for an impressionable youngster, and that makes the whole idea of college sports worth it. Union's All-Time Hockey Scoring Leaders (30 or more points) *Active Players Name Gls Asts Pts Year Varsity Tod Fobare 65 102 167 1 83 4 G i 11 Egan 83 64 147 1 85 4 Kip Cht.Jrchill 60 72 132 1 79 3 Joe Caruso 60 61 121 1 84 4 Curt C0le 51 68 119 1 86 4 Tom H od.IJ i n s 43 71 11 4 1 86 4 Grant JiJdd 55 56 111 I 79 3 Doll Marshall 52 53 105 I 79 3 Don Beall 44 54 98 1 83 4 Jamie \rri ght 49 46 95 1 85 4 NELSON SAID* 46 48 94 1 88 4 GARY TEMUSH* 48 46 94 1 88 4 Mark Jenkins 31 61 92 I 79 3 John Mact<enzie 20 68 88 1 86 4 Bill Mason 41 41 82 I 81 4 Ke\'in Kardos 34 43 77 I 7 9 3 Duane Joyce 31 43 74 1 87 4 Brad Hinterberger 23 47 70 I 79 3 Dave Appleby 13 55 68 '87 4 Dan 0 \~e i 11 31 34 65 I tJ3 4 SCOH CYR* 33 29 62 '88 4 Mark Hilley Jf 30 61 I 7 9 3 Jim JoS-ephson 18 42 60 ' 1 81 4 Scott Fitz~erald 9 46 55 1 83 3 Brad Nicholson 22 33 55 '83 4 Todd F.lanigan 23 31 54 '86 4 M i ck.ey P err a s 24 28 52 '83 4 T.J. Ry.an 10 38 48 1 85 4 J a c.k Ran k i n 7 40 47 '79 3 B i 1l W·er neck e 22 25 47 1 85 3 B i 11 Wall 10 34 44 '82 4 T om P a!} h il 1 18 24 42 '79 3 Mike 0 1 Connell 18 24 42 1 79 3 Brian ~hea 19 23 42 '82 4 Mike Ro-zzi 14 19 33 1 85 2 SCOTT MAtiLEY* · 11 21 32 1 89 3 Mario ;iallonardo 5 26 ' 3 1 I 78 1 Mark B(}n 12 19 3 1 I 7 3 3 Dave Weiss 8 22 3U 1 86 3 , Ntandatory Rugby . M,eting for Vets & ··· Newcomers Thurs. 4:30 Rugby Room Re: trip to North Carolina -if you want sweats, I bring checkbooks .... _

' \ l Kinghorn Heroics lead Dutchmen Coach McGee':s swimmers stroke on February 11, 1988: ... Lose two in overtime .•. Anxiously await Hamilton tonight Dutchmen Hoo.psters Fail to Connect Dutchmen Battle Back By MARK VAN BUREN As has been the case all season, the Union College men's basketball team was involved in three close games this past week. The Dutchmen twice went into overtime, losing to Albany State, 75-73 in 2 OT, losing to Hamilton, 94-87 in OT, and beating RPI, 75-74. In a very slow-paced contest, Union opened up a 15-9 lead over Albany State, after 13 minutes of play had expired, on Dylan Kelley's basket. The Dutchmen held a 30-21lead- the largest by either team in the game • after Dylan Kelley converted two free throws at the 1:28 mark of the first period. A 3-point play by Matt McClure brought Albany State to within six, 30-24, as the half ended. The t~ams began the second half evenly, with Union upping its lead to 7 points, 40-33, after Steve Khentigan hit a lay-up at the 14:07 mark. From here, in the next 8 minutes, the Great Danes outscored the Dutchmen 14-4 to take a 47-44lead. After a Joe Romer basket, Bill Peck's two free throws with 4:24 remaining, gave Union a 48-47 advantage. Joe Romer's free throw with 1:07 left tied the score at 53. After Russ Teagure missed two foul shots, Union had a chance· for the victory. However, two Dutchmen missed shots in the last 10 seconds leading to ~he first overtime. Six straight points from Bill Peck gave Union a 59-53 lead with 3:42 to play. Tom Beck's free throw at the 1:12 mark put Union ahead 64-59. Following an. Albany State basket, Union still led 64-61 with 50 seconds left to play. Missed hoops by bOth teams, gave Union the ball with 25 seconds to play and a three point lead. However, the Dutchmen took an ill-advised shot which went astray and after a defensive mistake, Steve Sauers buried a three-point field goal to send the game into its second overtime. Tom Beck's two free throws at the 1:45 mark, gave Union a 7o-68 lead. Matt McClure's three-pointer gave Albany State a 71-70 lead 29 seconds later. Following a Union turnover, John Carmello hit 2 free throws for a 73-70 Great Dane ad- vantage with 0:27 left. Joe Romer's three-pointer tied the score 73-73 with 0:08 left. Another defensive miscue allowed Steve Jermyn to hit an uncontested lay-up with 0:02 remaining to hand the Dut- chmen a 75-73 loss. JQe Romer paced Union with 22 points. Dylan Kelley added 18 points and 14 rebounds and Bill Peck chipped in with 17 points. Three nights later, the Dutchmen found themselves in a similar situation, but instead of leading throughout the game, they came from behind, only to see a four point lead evaporate in the closing minutes of . regulation play. This eventually led to their 11th set-back of the season. Hamilton raced out to an early five point lead and maintained it for the first ten minutes of the opening h~lf. Mark Trudeau's tllree-point field goal at the 7:19 mark tied the score at 28. Hamilton regained the lead, 32-3C, and The Dutchmen • • • came from behind, only ·to see a four point lead evaporate. then outscored Union the rest of the half 12-5, to take a 44·35 halftime lead. Four and a half minutes into the second period, Hamilton had increased its lead to 11, 54- 43. The Dutchmen, in the next 3 minutes, went on a 12-3 run to close the gap to 57-55 on Dylan Kelley's short jumper. Hamilton came back with 8 straight points to go ahead 67- 55. Union responded to the challenge of having to come back and with 6:28 to play, had tied the score 69-69 on Steve DeBalso's jwnper. Joe Romer's three-point play at the 3:15 mark put Union up 79·75. Hamilton scored the last 4 points of regulation to send the game into overtime. In the overtime period, Hamilton opened up a quick lead and increased it to 5 points, 88-83, with 1 : 13 left to play. Romer added 18 and Tom Beck had 11 for the Dutchmen. Monday night the Dutchmen played RPI in what head coach Bill Scanlon termed as \ ... our worst game of the season.\ On this night. though, Union got a few breaks and was able to hold on for its 6th win of the year. Union grabbed its first lead of Bill Scanlon termed if as \Our worst game of the season.\ Union could not overcome this deficit,. as it was forced to foul and watched as Hamilton converted 15 of 19 free throws for a final score of 94-87. Dylan Kelley's 24 points led Union. Joe the game, 12-11 1 on Joe Romer's free throw, 7:05 into the contest. The Dutchmen went ahead 17-12 on Dylan Kelley's lay-up two minutes later. RPI scored 10 straight points to go ahead 22-17 with 9:11left in the half. Union turned things right around and went on an 8-0 run to regain the lead 25-22, after Steve Khen- tigan hit 2 foul shots at the 4:29 mark. Union left the floor at halftime clinging to a · 32-30 1 advantage. The Dutchmen opened up a seven-point lead, 49-42, 6 : 32· into the second half . after a Joe Romer jumper. RPI closed the gap to 56-54 on a John Walsh free throw at the 8:45 mark. RPI moved to within one point. 64-63, with 5:13 remaining, but baskets by Bill Peck and Joe Romer gave Union a 68-63 advantage. Doug Gregory's 2 free throws with 0: 43 left to play put the Dut- chmen ahead 74-68. From here. Union held on Jor a 75-74 vic- t()ry, despite hitting just 1 of 4 free throws in the last 28 seconds. Joe Romer led Union with 27 points, while Dylan Kelley added 23 points. After Bowdoin D·efeat to Conquer Colby By ANDREW SALEM After a disappointing 6-3 loss to the Bowdoin Polar Bears on Friday night, the Union Skating Dutchmen valiantly over- powered the tenth ranked Division Two East Colby Mules 4-1 in the ,Saturday matinee at the Achilles Arena. Colby, who at one point in their season dropped seven straight, had won six of their last seven in- cluding a victory over fourth ranked Hamilton the night before. The win evens up Union's Division Two record at 7-7-1 (8-10-1 overall) and puts them in the heat of the playoff race in eighth plaee. The teams appeared to be very evenly matched in the opening fifteen minutes of the first period but Union slowly began to stand out. Two Colby penalties gave the Dutchmen a two man advantage and they were able to capitalize. Guy Logan broke the ice on the powerplay to give Union a 1-0 lead by tipping in a Bill Sedergren (2 gls, 14 assts, 16 pts) blasts from the point after h·e received the puck from Gary Temush (6-12-18). Loagan's goal, coming at tbe 17:40 mark, was his twelfth ofthe year. Although Union bad struggled on the powerplay throughout the year (17 for 81 in league play) they managed to work their rotations quite effectively for a plethora of shots against Colby. Gary Temush carried the momentum into the second period tallying his seventh goal at the 1:06 mark. After receiving a pass from Terry Campell (9-10-19) on the Union blue line Temush managed to thread the needle between two Colby defensemen and gun the puck past the S'llrprised Mule goaltender. Lackluster beginnings of periods plagued the Dutchmen against Bowdoin, but the Seniors made sure things changed for the Colby game. Great hustle by Temush, Cyr, and Said pumped the team np for twenty minutes of solid hockey. · Sophomore Phil MacLaughlin, in his third .ap- pearance after being brought up from the junior varsity, was .able to make it 3-0 in· Union's favor five minutes into the period. ·scott Cyr (8-9-17) cranked a quick shot on net after winning a face-off in the Colby end and MacLaughlin was in perfect position for the rebound. l'he second period was a fine one for Union in all aspects . of the game from the .flawless goaltending of Ron Kinghorn to the penalty-killing· of Cyr, Said, Temush, and Campen. , Union carried the intensity Continued on page 23 f.:. f, I I I ,. l . ''

i. I I CXVII, No. 15 . AAC ·Bre,aks 2 Year· ·Clau,~se ·Revisions Made· By VIR.GINIE MELlO The Academic Affairs Council · met, . and passed a revision (for fall '88) on Gel Time last Tuesday, February· · Hl. . One revision includes a fourth 85 minute session on Mondays, Wednesdays,· and Fridays. This would .allow for more flexibility in scheduling of mathrnatics courses, and decrease the scheduling con- flicts that have occurred in the faB and winter terms of this year. As a result, the math- rna tics courses will run from A.A.C. has opened the door • . . Studetd Forum or a student on [A.A:c.] for example, can now I:Jring up proposals for limited and significant changes. 8:30 to 9:55, 10!05 to 11:30 (the new slot), 11 :40to 1:05, and 1:40 to 3:.05. The normal65 minute periods will also change. Instead of running at 9:00, 10:15, 11:30, 2: 00, and 3: 15, the courses will take place from 8:50 to 9:55, 10:15 to 11:20~ 11:40 to 12:45, 2:.00 to 3:05, and 3:15 to 4:20. 'l\'he time between classes will change from lOto 20 minutes: Even if the revision wasn't passed, the AAC's move to consider a revision is _significant. Previously,· the Gel Time program was not going to be reviewed for two years. Now the AAC has opened the door for more suggestions of improving Gel Time. Student Forum {through the Vice President of Academic Affairs) or a student on the Academic Affairs Council for exampl~, can now bring up ,proposals for limited and significant changes. ·College 1877 ~· York February 18, 1988 Union·'s Donations Prove Unaffected by Oc:f. Market··Crash ·, Nation·wide Studies Show Similar Trend as in Ptrst Years What Happens to' Givlng When Market Falls Change in giving J: Surgery Prevents Biden Appearance at Union Third Cllncelllltion for Spe11ker's Forum This Term Student ·· Forum On the Road Examines I.F.C·. &l + 4.6<rc. ffi By JENNIFER ENGLAND Proposal, Special Group Housing ~--------------------- ~. + 7.1 ~ The Union College Speakers ~-----~-~~---- ~ Forum's e11gagement of + 1.1 cn. Senator Joseph Biden has been ---~----~----- i?c cancelled. Originally scheduled BySTEPHANIEJARYNA + 5.0 ~ . for Monday, ·February 8, the ----~-~-~------- ~ lecture on \The Arms Race\ In the atriuni of the College + 5.0 c. was cancelled by his agent due Center, the Student Forum -------------- :i Robert Rasmussen, vice to a pinched nerve in his leg. began last week's meeting with ? :' p:r e side n t for co II eg e The talk was then rescheduled an informal diseussion of the Source: Lawrence B. Undse'y, Harvard u. resources. for the following Monday, 'bad press' sophomore By ELISE FOODY The plunge of the stoclt market in mid-October of last year has led to concern nationwide about the status of personal giving to our country's coHeg~s and universities. Every year since 1955 donatiol)s to these institutions have in- . creased, but many college financial officers are now · speculating about whether this trend will be interrupted by the decline in the stock market. Mr. Hobert Rasmussen, Vice- President for College Resources here at Union sp()ke with me about h()W the school is faring as a result of the rapid five hundred point drop in the market. Because the decline had very little effect on per- sonal income, annual giving to Union is as stror1g and positive as ever. The C8llege's En- •' dowment giving has remained unaffected and Mr. Rasmussen is optimistic that overall gifts to Union Will increase as they have over the past thirty years. Aside from annual giving, ~mother influence on the C<»llege Budget is capital gifts. These are given for permanent use at the school and are eKemplified in buildings, scholarships or professorships. They are larger than annual gifts and may be one time gifts to the College that can never be repeated or replaced. There remains strong, solid support for Union and the most notable outcome of the market plunge is that people are planning more carefully what types of gifts they will contribute to the College and when tney will See DONATIONS, pg_ 4 February 15, On the preceding representative, Keith Bemis Friday, February 12, his agent received in a letter published in again notified the College that last week's Concordiensis. due to hospitalization Senator Discussion of .the accusation Bidan would be unable to make that Bemis has been negligent his engagement. in his duties and guilty of Over the weekend it was misconduct prompted announced that the Senator had · suggestions by Forum mem- undergone surgery on Friday bers that studenfsuggestions to for an aneurysm \n an artery to the Forum, suc.b as the in- his brain. The aneurysm, a sac stallation of phones outside · formed at a weak .spot en an doors, should be handled in a artery wall, if untreated could much more professional and burst; shutting off the flow of detailed manner. Tile basic blood to the brain. . response Bemis had to the letter Senator Biden who served as was ~hat he did relay the Chairman of the SALT II suggestion to tile Campus delegation and Chairman of the Grounds Committee, thinking Senate Confirmation hearings that was the proper channel to on Judge Bork was listed in follow. It was concluded that seriously ill condition but is there was a communication expected to recover satisfac- problem between himself and torily, without significant after the sophomore who made the effects. suggestion. According to For students holding tickets, . Michael Hiller, Forum refunds will be provided. · president, the discussion had ..,..,_...._ ___ ...;._·~---.,..------------__,...------. -------- '~orne up at a :meeting in- Film Comm·ittee Votes to Keep _Porn Movie :ormallybetweenfourofthel7 members. . After the minutes were Poll Results Show 2 to 1 in Favor of Screening passed, the committee reports began with a report by Bemis of the activities ()f the Academic Affairs Council. Bemis reported that the council is pondering what they termed emergency revisions in Gel Time. The basic By CHRISTINE HONG News Editor The controversy over the Feb. 24 screening of the · scheduled. pornographic film seems to have reached an end. \ movie to play as scheduled.\ She affirmed that their decision would not change. . However, according to the Student Forum Handbook, the Student Forum has the right to repeal the Film Connnittee's decision; moreover. it has the right to cancel the co~tee's funding. Michael Hiller, Student Forum president, was . quoted as stating at the , February 4 Student Forum meeting at Smith House that the likelihood of such action CC»ming from the Forum would be small. As of this Monday, the Film , · Committee stood by its origiaal · decision to play the x-rated: movie to the college campus- After hosting an Open Forwa last week as well as conducting a student poll, the Committee concluded, from the .input from both of these initiatives as well as other sources, that the Results of Film Committee Poll: 21 o/o of student body participated~ with a 2 to 1 ~atio in favor of the screening. reasons to cancel the movi~ were not as strong enough to ·• remove the movie from theil' · original schedule. Kelley Park, co-chairtnan <»f the Film Cominittee, commented, ''We had the Forum; we had the poll;, we've take11 a lot into · (:onsideration. We reached 41 group decision allowing the The results of the student poll conducted last Thursday and Friday are as follows. Ac- cording to the Film Committee, approximately one-third of those who participated voted against the screening while the remaining .two-thirds voted for its screening. However.. only 21% of the students voted between the two days. Actual figures stand as 300 for and 164 against for a total of 464 par- ticipating. Park stated that the Film Committee counted the votes which only took about half an hour to go thr.ough. The movie; which is scheduled to be shown in SS016 at 7, 9, 11, is titled In· satible II. Tickets go on sale at the ticket booth in the College Center Wednesday morning. In the p~st, tickets for all three show1ngs of the pornographic movie have been sold out by 5: 00 p.m., several hours before the ~irst showing. Tuesday night at 9 p.m. Students Against Pornography See. S.A.P., pg. 4 · revision proposed by the council is a response to a math slot problem in which an 85 minute class spot may be added each .week. Members of the Forum readily . noticed that the See RUN Q,fF, pg. 4 Photo of the Week: The campus was covered in a blanket of snow this past weekend.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 18, 1988 NEWS ANALYSIS By EZRA SHERMAN Two years ago, th~ House wow~ not have. tb.ought of blocking a major Reagan proposal. Somewhere along the way, the authority .hasg()ne out of Reagan's requests .. So it is witb disappointment that Reagan saw his 34.2 11lillion in proposed aid voteddo.WJJ219-211 in the House two weeks agQ. But while Reagan was sulking,. the Nicaraguan people were celebrating. Despite the victory,. an eight point edge is so small, as President Daniel Ortega pointed out in Friday's Washington Post, it is doubtful . An Impression of Contra Aid · whether long range U.S. policy toward Nic!lragua will change, or tbat \president Reagan would be willing to become a man of peace.\ Reagan responds by saying that the defeat of the aid package \undercuts the efforts of. those men and. women fighting for freedom and democracy in Nicaragua at a critical juncture in the Central American peace process.\ \Peace\ and \democracy\ are words that are thrown around a lot these days by both sides to gain support for their cause. Somewhere along the line, a person has to step back and separate the facts from the fiction and take a good look at who is being true to the meaning of those two words Americans are so fond of, and who is desecrating them. Polly Dickson's lecture at Union Feb. 9, hit h()rrie that the image of the United States as a nation which olds peace and human rights in highest regard is often a myth not applicable where communism is seen as a potential threat. Mrs. Dickson came to Union to share insight only gained through personal eKperience. As a member of Witness For Peace- a religious organization whose members travel to Nicaragua in the hopes of better understanding the conflict there. she .provides .an outlook not presented by the U.S. government. On February 3, The New York Times reported eight dead, including three children and a mother and father, after a contra attack on a farm cooperative 80 miles fr.om -Managua. One of the missions of Witness For Peace, is to document such attacr.s. In one of the towns Mrs. Dickson visited, 15 women had been C.I.A., F.B.I. and K.G.B . cominunists (almost like a PAC in America). This group was outlawed in 1963 by the Brazilian government for being · what it was, foreign supported. Despite all this, the KGB has been at work in Brazil sup- porting leftist movements with l$irge amotmts of money. To credit the CIA with the over- throw of the Goulart regime is In The C.C. ( At U.C. . --, By DANIEL J. K.ENIRY · Bring · yourself· back to Wednesday, Febr11ary 10. You're coming in any door at th~ College Center. Hold it, what's this? Not a KcU.eidescope poster, nor an \It's Like This\ placard nor even an advert for Minerva lecturers. It's a very strange sort of postillg .(that has recently appeared. in the Library also). After more time, y{)U see that it's a full page memo denouncing the Central Intelligence Agency-, and its right to recruit students bere at Union. The feeling at the onset is, the less said the better. Let tbese people hang their cute little signs anonymously and nGbody will pay attention to them. But an attack lias been made (no matter hrw silly the form) and ideas l:lave been disseminated. Tile Union College students have the right to bear all sides of CIIl issue. Raising the issue of to give them much more credit documente.d . that the CIA ·has th th d PI been involved in the overthrow · n:er ;ge:,e ue •. · ease,.you· of · several Q.emo<;ratioally . . Chile. I will not ·justify or· elected governments ... \ The attempt to defend what hap- three cited are: Guatemala, pened in Chile. But I am 1954; Brazil, 1964; and Chile, skeptical when a memo quotes 1973. \Well documented.\ huh? sources that are \well In the case of Guatemala documented\ and ''well Colonel Castillo Annas (the known\. In the above cases, man who led the coup d'etat simply apply the Kirkpatrick against Jacobo Arbanz) Doctrine. Guatemala and Brazil escaped from prison in 1951 and have come around to Drganized an army of his own. democracy (Chile still has a (By the way, my \documen- ways to go) after the decades of tation\ is the 1987 International \right wing military rule\ as Yearbook and Statesmen's Who the poster says. Who.). Various military juntas The memo goes on to charge ruled Guatemala until .a new the CIA with being a drug• constitution in 1965. Constituent detiling agency. It says that as elections were held in 1984, and far aback as the Vietnam War, presidential elections in 1985. the Agency has shipped drugs to There are nwnerous political the U.S. and sold them for a parties, all with repres~tation. profit. I again ask for evidence. In 1983, Guatemala's aid from Come now, there are no secrets the U.S. was cut off for human in Washington anymore. Every rights violations, but was reporter hears CIA in ~is sleep reinstated in 1986 and 1986. looking for a conspiracy, and Sounds like· a sound policy to looking for the conspiracy me. that'll·be the next Watergate. In case of Brazil~ I ask the (Iran-Contra was disclosed by same question. According to a the U.S. government, not book by Robert Wesson, \the reporters). The memo mentions question of the responsibility of General Noriega; the man is the ~.S. an_d the propriety of its doubtless a beast. However,the pohc~ w1ll proba_bly, long anti-CIA poster implies Noriega rem!'ll!l co'?trovers1al. : The \'as paid his 200.000 d()llar ~dmmistr!ltton of Joao Goull;lrt stipend for drug running. No attacked as they were taking a walk to visit their sons: 10 were kllled, and the rest raped and injured. Passing near the scene of the attack, a villager dug up an Israeli-made shell and ·said, ''Here is where your 100 million in aid went.\ The obvious q~esUon is why would the Contras kill civilians, knowi,ng tbat such acts· will, if anything, unite tbe country against them?- The obvious question is why would the contras kill civilians knowing that such acts will, U anything, unite . the country against them? Mrs. Dickson said that it seems that the contras .want to ''break the spirit of the population and (thereby) undermine support for the .Sandinista govern· ment.\ Incidentally,· many Contras are ex-National Guardsmen of the Samoza regime, who would like to see the previous heirarchy return, where the majority of the wealth was concentrated in the publicly yet. Apparently, he was paid monthly for infotming . · the CIA on Cuban a~airs. The third point the memo makes is that William Webster, who is now the Director of Central Intelligence, was the Director of the FBI when the surveillance of certain U.S. political organizations opposed to the Fresident'.s policy in Central America took place. The author of the poster is right. The Director authorized . the legitimate and legal in- vestigation into organizations · inside the U.S. for possible criminal wrongdoing. The in- vestigation also looked into right-wing groups for violating the Neutrality Act in their support of the Nicaraguan resistance. A bomb had ex- ploded at the Army War College in Fort McNair, Washington. DC, and. those who claimed responsibiity said they were ''in solidarity with the people of El Salvador.\ The FBI then legitimately looked into the Committee in Solidarity with the People of El Salvador (CISPES). TheBureaucame up empty-handed and dtopped the investigation. As a footnote (if the FBI's critics are suggesting political motivation) the Center . · for Constitutional Rights, the group that released the in- formation obtained the files over two months ago. They waited until two weeks bef()re the vote in • the House of Representatives. on Contra~Aid to release the material to the press. hands of the very few. From what she ·saw, . instead of democracy, the counterveiling interest ·of the Contras is \freedom .for the upperclass to · oppress the loWer class.\ . Having both Reagan and Mrs. Dickson tell it, one would think they' were describing two dif- .ferent wars in two different cOWltries. In this case, sin• cerity, acting . and warnip,gs don't a convincing argument make. For all .of Reagan's chann, something is missing. Maybe he could follow Mrs. Dickson's ·lead, and try to see past the ideologies into the people that make up the con:- flict. Until then, his a~guments just sound like a broken record spinning aroWld and round~ . never covering new groWld. · Get a. clue. Get-an opinion Read Con cordi en sis News Analysis cowboy days of the CIA are over. William Webster has a reputation for strictly upholding the law. He offered, at h:is confirmation hearings, for the position of DCI to not be a cabinet officer. With Iran- Contra there is further restriction .placed on the Agency concerning notification of Congress of a covert activity. I support these restrictions. The - CIA was established by law to' gather and report intelligen(!e to the President. This is · its primary work today, and sholl1d continue to .be. It's got nothi11g to do with a CIA\KGB war, it's simple gathering of infonnatU!n to be used in the making of U.S. foreign policy. The poster finally askes, \I:s it SOWld for our tax dollars to pay for the illegal surveillance of law abiding citizens?\ If it were ·true, no. Ourtax dollars pay for the lawful investigation of Americans who may be par- ticipating in illegal activity or dealing with a foreign power. If the Left is investigated for planting bombs in oppositi{m, the Right should be investigated for doing too much in support. That's what the FBI does; uphOld the law regardless of political belief. I· urge the authors of the poster to make public tlleir opposition, in a letter to Con· cordiensis. Those of you who authored the memo,. do you fear investigation by the FBI? And woul'd that investigation be entirely legal and legiti:ln.ate in your case'f Participate in the American, · democratic ex- change of ideas and opinion.s. recruitment is a blatant at· tempt to exclude ideas for the reason of an ide()bgic~l bias. The CIA is a business, and has the right to recruit on a campus jllst like any other business. They also have tile right to express their ideas o0n campus, whether any group .agrees with '.hem or not. The most deplo:rable aspect of this is the anonymity. If the facts, reasoning, and conclusion are so positively Slife, why not affix one's name to it? Two weeks ago an anti-CIA protest led to trespassing charges for eight SUNY Albany students. At least they had tl:te cbutzpah to make their dissent public. And I find it hypocritical to attempt to fight something you believe is so hidden and se~l\etive with a covert act of terrorism yourself. m . ~razll held ext~emtst one has made· that charge positions and was \erratic''. In ,_.--------~---~----------------- ......... -------------~----, appointments, he favored The poster charges that the CIA is outside the checks and balances in America. 'lbe The poster's first .point is that ( oh, ~is is grand) \It is well personal friends and leftists over pro·U.S. people. By the time of his overthrow, his government was infiltrated with communists. (according to Mr. Wesson) The CIA had acted in Brazil unsuccessfully. It had formed a group ,called the American Institute for Free Labor Development, conceived to promote labor unions. It W!':lS. not successful. The Agency also formed the Brazilian Institute for DeiQ.ocratic Action, a group to provide funds to anti- ONLY NEWS MAKES THE FRONT PAGE. JOIN CONCORDIENSIS NEWS. CALL TINA X68SO or BECK x4416 Keep the -Carnegie Name ~:: ;,

~·; CONCORDIENSIS, Fe~ruary 18, 1988 Page 3 l iF .Cs Propos,al Summarized Three Initiatives Highlighted. Focused on Creating Social Alternatives in College Center By CHRISTINE HONG News Editor second initiative asks for an increased use of the Atrium possibly through live en.- tertainment offered weekly. 'rJrursday' s relelease of the ·· completed l.F. C. proposal was pre~edented with the full acanowledgment of the Adr)linistration and the Student Forwn. • The third initiative calls for the establishment of a ''dance club,\ according to Pickus. · · Open for ~U students, the club Evan Pickus, Social Policy Committee Chairman, stated tbat the three page report is ajrned at aUeviating the ;pressures placed on caU}pus fratE;Jrnities for providing social activities. Hopes for the success of this aim are outlined in the prtJposal through three basic initiatives all focusing on crteating more .of a student · oriented atmosphere at . the College Center. The first pl\oposal pushes for the establishing of a student lounge berond the third floor pool room in the . College Center. This Vl()uld serve· as a place where st11dents could gather, possibly in. an area larger than that presen.tly allocated. Pickus added that this initiative also suggests the addition of vending machines, video games, and a few more pool tables. The · (most probably set in the Skellar) would rely on the hand• stamping system to allow for underage and ov:er .. 21 students to enter together. yet allow those over 21 to purchase alcohol. As ·for whether these proposals are being considered by the .Administration, Pickus feels that this proposal and its suggestions are being con- sidered as ''a viable option.\ Pickus, along with Marty Cepkauskas, I 1 F.C. President, and Tim Matthews, I.F .C. Vice President, met with Dean Mammola Monday afternoon to discuss the propl,lsal. Exact details weren't cited, but feedback from a mass mailing of the pr()posal to the Admin- stration seems positive. The proposal submitted to Con- cordiensis by the I.F .C. SCHEDULE OF EVENTS FOR TODAY 11 :00 - Memorial Chapel Keynote Speaker Ernest Drucker, Ph.D Prof. of Epidemiology/Social Medicine Albert \. , ~ir:pJ~i~. 9?11~We: ?,f 'Y1~?isqj~f: ;· 1 EcpidemioJogy .?s\~1 DS :P.e~$onal ~isk .an~ • : r ,,. . . • . oc1a onsequen ce . . ' SEMINARS (College Center) -· '., 1:00-2:00, AudH•;:>rium Roy Stevens, Ph.D Director Laboratory for Diagnostic Immunology N.Y.S. Dept. of Health \The AIDS Virus: Biology & Serology\ 1 :00·2:00, Room 409 Charl.es Eisnaugle Director NYC Office of AIDS Discrimination Issues NYS Division of Human Rights \AIDS Discrimination in Employn'lent, Housing, Public Accommodations, Education, and Disability ProVi$ions\ qnd Jean Quarrier, Esq. Assistant Counsel N.Y.S. Dept. of health \AlPS & Public Health Legal Issues\ 1:00·2:00, Room 410 Thomas R. Davis, D.Min., Ph.D Chaplain and Asst. Prof. of Religion Skidmore College \AIDS and Ethical Issues\ and David M. Liebers, MD Infectious Disease Physician Ellis Hospital \Treating AIDS Patients\ 2:00·3:00, Room 302 James Lam brines, Ph.D Direct()r Health SystemsACiministration G.M.I., Union Co.llege \AIDS and Economic Issues\ and David H. Shippee Program Administrator AIDS Treatment Center Albany Medical Center \A Designated AIDS Treatment Center: An Administrative Per$pective\ 2:00-3:00, Room 409 Charles Eisnaugle 2:00·3:00, Room 410 Thomas Davis David Liebers 2:00·3:.00, Auditorium Roy Stevens 3:00·4:00, Auditorium Panel Discussion 4:00-5:00 Reception College Center Atrium I.F .C.'s Social Life Proposal with the younger students on a social basis. When one visited the old Pub or Skellar, one was sure to see friends and meet We, the members of the Inter., Fraternity Council of Union College, find that current legal restrictions and recent campus r&-eonstructions have caused ,great changes in the social life at Union College, and shifted the responsibility for providing this social life to the campus' 18 fraternities. At present, we find · conditions Wlacceptable, and offer the following proposal to rectify the situation. It is not demanded that the entire proposal set forth below be enacted. However, it is requested that the proposal receive hasty and proper consideration. · new friends on a regular basis. 1. Problems A. lt seems as though the recent renovations of ''Car- negie'' have shifted the main use of the building fl·om the students to the Administration and ·the Trustees. The old Carnegie was a building where students could meet and soCialize during the day, as well as night. The pool tables, video machines, and pub have been removeq and replaced with administrative offices and conference rooms. . The once informal atmosphere enjoyed by the student body .bas been removed, resulting in the loss of a central · meeting place for students. Although we do recognizethe need for providing space for the administration, ..w.e cannot accept the fact that the students of Union College no longer have any campus oriented or campus sponsored social life. B. Due to recent changes in law, coupled with the above stated renovations, a new responsibility has been placed upon the Greek system, namely · the Union College social life. Due to lack of alternatives, the parties sponsored ·by frater- nities become larg~ly over- crowded. . 'The . administration has placed a cap on the amount of people allowed in a house for a party, and has asked Greeks to issue invitations for these parties. However, it always seems that more invitations show up than were issued. As well, those without invitations attempt to enter these parties through windows, through back doors, and up fire escapes. This abundance of students leads to unbearably crowded conditions. Students find that even those with invitations cannot enter due to the overabundance of · · people. Those outside waiting to enter are dispersed· by security. Consequently, students have begun to leave the campus on weekends. Mi:tny studens drive to bars in Albanyand.Saratoga; some drive home While in- toxicated. , C. Older students at Union do not have a chance to cohabitate In order to fonn \a more perfect Union,' 1 it is important that Union students have the ability to interact on not only an academic lievel, but on a social level as well. 2. Solutions A. The first issue is easily dealt with. The college must place additional pool tables, ping pong tables and video machines in a more accessible location in the College Center,. attractions which will draw students to the building. As well, accommodations must be made for students who wish to take a late night study break. There is no reason for the campus to close down at 11 p.m.; we are a college com- mWlity, not a nursing home. B. The second issue is not as easily dealt with. We realize that the college has certain legal - considerations, and we must be succinct in stating that we do not wish the college to override any such obligations. However, if· the administrati<>n is willing to institute a program such as the one described below, it might save the lives of Union College students driving home while intoxicated from off~campus locations. 1. The atril1Il1 of the College Center would be conducive to a late night dance club for students on weekends. Dim lights, a semi-formal dress code, and music provided by a DJ-Live entertainers could entice students to come joiii their friends to soCialize. Students go to fraternity parties for thr~e main reasons: to see friends, to hear music and dance, and to drink. This type of environment 'Would help alleviate some of ·tile · resJ>on· sibility presently placed on the Greek system. 2. Hired personnel could check IDs at the door,. and bandstamp these old enough to conswne alcoholic beverages. As well, bartenders wculd check handstamps, and serve only those of legal age. This system has proved acceptable and satisfactory for many bars and clubs in the area, who stand an even greater liability, due to the fact that most of their customers drive to their locations. The students frequenting this club WDuld most probably only be wallting across campus and back. Soft drinks would be provided for- those under age. Unlike the · t.~urrent Skellar, this will allow students both ()Ver 21 and undEr to cohabitate, and enjoy the atmosphere tolether. Students could dance, play pool, play video games, and releast some of the tension which builds up in .lil competitive academic en- '\!ir.onment such as ours. 3. Similarly, the Skellar sbollld be open to all Union 5t udents. The college would stamp the hands of those old enough to drink alcoholic . beverages; as wen as admit t!Jose under age. Once again, tllis will allow students to co- ltabitate, and remove some of tile burden from the Union C()llege Greek System to · prDvide an ample social life for the students. 4. Fraternities would then again begin to have frequent parties as less peo.ple would frequent those parties, lowering · liabilities and costs. C. Party attendance rules should .be gauged according to .the maximum occupancy · regulations of the Schenectady Fire Department. By limiting t:he number of guests to a function of the number of brothers. houses with smaller memberships are forced to have much smaller parties than • the larger houses. · · 3. Conclusion . A. By enstating the proposals described above, Union College · can expect a great financial return. Vending machines, such as video games, can bring in profit. By re-creating a \Pub the. college can gain on drink mark-ups. Similarly, food services in the College Center will thrive, as students would be able to purchase food items during Pub hours. B. We once again should like to reiterate that we do not ex· pect every provision of this entire proposal to become exacted. We want to work with the administration to devise a solution which will be satisfactory to all parties in· volved. · C. We think that if the ·above stated measures are put into effect, the social life here at Union College will improve greatly, especially through greater interaction between students. It is hoped that the adminis~ration will carefully consider this proposal and hastily proceed. After all, the College Community consists of Administration and Students. In order for the community to co- exist successfully, it · is necessary to cater to both ~Sides. Respectfully submitted, Marty Cepkauskas, IFC President Evan Pickus, Social Policy Committee Chairman Tim Matthews Sandy Hudson Adam Hoffman Greg Zambiazi Jeff Smith Chris Marmo THIS WEE.K'S EVENTS: Thursday, February 18 · 11 a.m. Memorial Chapel. The Minerva Hour presents Dr. Erne!;t Drucker speaking on \Epidemiology of AIDS.\ 11 a.m.-5 p.m. Old Chapel. Bloodmobile. Noon-4 p.m. College Center. AIDS Conference. . 3:45p.m. Bailey Room 312. MBA colloquium: Clark Graningeron \The VA System: Centralized Health 4:30p.m. Great 4:45p.m. a.9:30 p.m, 8p.m. ; 10 p.m.- Care That Works.\ College Center Aud. Faculty Colloquium with Prof. :Peter Heinegg on \Clarence King - A American Failure.\ Steinmetz Hall Room 106. Physics Department colloquia: Robert Neff of Suffern High School. Hickok. Student forum meeting. College Center Aud. Discussion on racism with the student group, MASS. Midnight Dutch Hollow Pub. Cabaret. Friday, F=ebruary 19 11 a.m.-5 p.m_ Old Chapel. Bloodmobile. 3:30p.m. HUM. 213. Philosophy Dept. colloquia: Professor Jaegwon Kim, on \Why Does an Event Have Only One Correct Explanation?\ 5-9:30 p.m. College Center Atrium. Dutchmen's night. 7, 9, 11 p.m. Co!lege Center Aud. Film: No Way Out. (also 2/20 and 2/21) Saturday, February 20 9 p.m.-2 am. Old Chapel. Black History Month party. Sunday, -February 21 3 p.m. Memorial Chapel. UCIWPI Choir concert . . . . . . . ~ ~ ..... · ..... ~.-~ .... ·

Page 4 Run Off :Results ln By STEPHANIE JARYNA Only 24 percent of the fresh- man class turned out to elect Dan Waible as their second Freshman Representative. A run-off election between W aible and Michelle Lerner took place on February 12. W aible captured 55.5 percent of the votes cast while Lerner came short drawing 44.5 .per- cent. David Cohen, winning 59 percent of the votes has been officially elected as the second · Alumni Representative. Twenty-six percent of the senior class turned out to vote for their second Alumni Representative. Pam Conners, the candidate opposing Cohen for the position, received 41 percent of the votes. The election · board voiced discontent with the low number of voters but also indicated understanding that both the weather and \chaotic\ voting atmosphere in the College Center were possible excuses · for the lact of voting ambition. The first elections saw John Meier win Freshman Representative and Christopher Hartmann secure the position of Alumni Representative. CONCORDIENSIS, February 18, 1988 What S.A.P. Plans Further Action Tuesday Night to Take at Meeting Continued from page 1 held a meeting to discuss as to what extent they should take • action as a result of the decision to screen the movie. Eleven , members of S.A.P. were in attendance to debate and for- · mulate a plan of action. Denise Feinsod commented at the onset of the informal gathering that there were \a lGt of dif· ferent ideas floating around.\ Three particular motions were in general approval by all members and will be acted upon within this corning week. First, S.A.P. is planning to privately view the scheduled movie in advance. By doing so, they will be able to point out the harmful images that the movie conveys and warn those who plan to attend in advance. They also plan to write a letter to Concordiensis using misrepresentations of women and sex to support their original points against pornographic showings at Union. Second, they plan to set up a desk near the ticket booth on Wednesday in hopes of educating those who . come to purchase tickets to the · pornographic film as well as · achieving their thi.rd gClal of supporting the A.W.A.R.E. Group and The Women's Commission's \Not a Love Story\ that is being shown Feb. 23 at 7 p .. m. in SS016, one day prior to the pornographic movie. This documentary explores ''the extent and growth of pornography.'' S.A.P.'s overall push will be on advertisements and posters around campus and outside SS016 the night of the S.A.P.'s overall push will be on advertisements and posters around campus outside SS016. screenings. Feinsod stated, \We will put up posters outside the auditorium between screenings, if need be.\ Discussion of a possible counter-program scheduled during the pornographic film also occured; however, the lack '.>f time and funds seems to make this possibility highly unlikely. Union Sees Donations . . In Other Forms Besides Dollars Continued from page 1 contribute them. Mr. Rasmussen stated that, ''In- stead of stocks, benefactors are donating real estate, life in- sarance policies and virtually any capital asset that is worth more now than at the time of acquisiton.\ He went on to say that no one bas talked of can .. ceiling their commitment but that some are reviewing exactly when is the best time to giveto the College. Donors want to give the market time to ad]:ust after the decline and some . are . spreading their donations out over time to take advantage of certain tax in- centives. Union's first comprehensive fund,. raising campaign ( 1980- . 1985) set out to double the College's annual gifts. and the Endowment. We ha-ve sur~ passed both goals aRd are now planning for our BicentenniaL Mr. Rasmussen stated that Union needs support and is seeking it aggressively. Although gifts to the College have increased, Union must consult and work with its donors., choosing plans that are best for both parties. The ''fuel'' to donating stems from the fact that Uniori is one of the nation's most prestigious colleges and aims to compare favorably to our . competitors in both academic and financial set- tings. Nine Union Students Attend National Student Convention at Rutgers the convention we were all sick and tired of the propaganda. I College Center Atrium Site of Latest Student Forum Meeting By CHRISTOPHER AVERY During the weekend of February 6 and 7, history was in the making at Rutgers University. There convened a National Student Convention organized solely in an attempt to bring together the activists around the natton. U.C. Berkeley, u~c. Santa B~rbara, · became so alienated With the ·Communist Youth Brigade calling for .the immediate overtbrow of the U~ted States govemment, I confronted one of their mem,bersand told him, \If you ever try and execute .wbat you propose, I will be the first in line t() kick yoW' ass!\ \Emergency Revisions\ on Gel Time Discussed Continued from page \1 . Academic Affairs Council seems to be breaching their two year promise not to touch Gel Time until the two year ex- perimental period passed at which time evaluations would begin. The Forum also noted that this would also be an in- vitaion for the Forum, as the voice of the student body, to suggest revisions. · When discussed later in the meeting as new business it was announced that the Gel Time Committee would formulate pertinent suggestions and relay those suggestions to Bemis and Jeffrey Berkowitz, Forum members of the Academic Affairs ColUlcil. Many of these suggestions will come from the suggestions made by students in response to the Gel Time survey administered at Winter term registration. Geri Lynn Mackey, reporting on the activities of the Com- mittee on Committees, made a motion that the recently sub- mitted constitution of the Signing Club be passed with fWlding. Though certain members - of the Forum questioned the need of such a club on campus the final vote lead to the motion being passed with only one opposing vote. Jennifer Scully, reporting on · activities of the Student Affairs Committee first brought up the recent request by the In- ternational House to be reviewed this term so as to be better prepared for . housing perspectives in the Fall. Scully reported that anyonewho is interested in a special 'group housing contract' should appeal to the S.A.C. as soon as possible. This also includes those in- terested in living in co-op situations next year. The S.A.C also discussed the new Inter Fraternity Council social policy and has planned to meet with the I.F .C. to further discuss the proposal. Finally, in plans to in- vestigate the Academic Honesty Policy at Union College the S.A.C. is planning to survey the students in the near future about the degree of cheating presently going on at Union College. Marty Cepkauskas, president of the Inter Fraternity Council made a report which defended that the I.F .C. is pursuing their policy through the correct channels. The Social Policy :Pad been distributed to President Morris, Dean Mammola, Dean Alford, Mrs. Marra, and the Social Alternatives Committee with the idea that the Student Forum, \supports the I.F.C.'s initiative to investigate problems with existing social policy.\ Cepkauskas also announced that the walking escort service provided on campus by members of the fraternities has been terminated due to lack of · interest on behalf of the student body. The Gel Time committee reported that the data from the Gel Time survey administered at registration will be correlated and ready for presentation at tonight's Student Forum meeting. Old business involved a report by Geri Lynn Mackey that the parking memorandmn she is currently compiling . should also be ready by tonight's meeting. Finally, new business in~ volved further discussion of the revisions to Gel Time and the Forums plan to address the Academic Affairs Council in response to their 'breach of contract' and to make · suggestions for revisions in Gel Time. . Tonight's Student Forum meeting· will take place at Hickok House and shall begin at 8:00 p.m. Among the topics to be discussed will be the por- nography results, Gel Time revisions and the parking proposal ,Harvard and Union were among the over 130 schools represented. Nine of us from Union College made our radical-debut at the CClnvention. I went with the hope . that as a national student movement we could change some of the more destructive policies our country pursues; i.e. acid rain and Central. American terrorism. I ·came back to campus a moderate liberal scared and sick of the more radical left. Needless to say, none of the far left radicals were students at any university. Some said they were, but later on were found not to be. In my view, they acted as instigators and made me feel as if lwanted to join the Young Republicans and the N .R.A. They disrupted the convention, and nothing was worked out because of the in- house fighting. . I did get the chance to hear Little Steven talk about how we shoUld shed ourselves of labels and work togethr as a unit for As we arrived for registration peace and progress. I also we were bombarded With . cornered the famous rebel propaganda from both the Abbey Hoffman for twenty Communi~ Youth Brigade and minutes. He and I agreed that the Proletarian Workers. Since ·nothing would get done until I had grown up in L.A., I was someone somewhere . was used to alniost anything. What I willing to be wrong. was not prepared for was the I learned three important oatright righteousness of the far things at the National Stu(\ent left in Arr1erica. Convention: I love this country · · Over the course of the and what it stands for, I still weekend we were harassed by disagree with a few govern· sach gro.ups as the CP.L.O, the mental policies, and Anita from Democratic Socialists, the Pennsylvania University's Communist Youth Brigade, the . address and phone nwnber. Sparticists, and the Young Anarchist Bowling League. At first, most of us readily took whatever was handed us. Eventually, towards the end of Get a clue. Get a·n opinion. Read News Analysis ''NOT A LOVE STORY'' A ALM ABOUT PORNOGRAPHY Produced by the National Film B-oard of Canada A thought provoking docun1entary which explores the extent and growth of pornography. The film offers insights andperspectives from men and women both inside and outside the \business\. With annual sales in excess of five billion dollars, pornography is no longer an isolated phenonmenon, but a pervasiv:~ part of our culture. The first film of its kind., ' 1 Not a Love Story\ is an inquiry :into porno- graphy for people to consider how their lives are affected by it in the most subtle and obvious ways. Film will be show on tuesday, February 23, 1968 at 7:00 p.m. Social Sciences Room 016 Dlscus.slon to fOllow, led -by ,Professor DeBono of thePsychology Departmen1 Sponsored by the A WARE Group and The Women's · Commission · , .. ·~.:;.!. ., ·~' ' i :•, l_ ~ ,, j I 1 I I I f .'j ,. r ,. '·

r l ·i \ j ·: ,) ,, CONCORDIENSTSJ February 18, 1988 1987 .. 88 SPRING TERM P,REREGIST.RATION PROCEDURES The procedures for spring preregistration will be the same as those usetifor winter term. · Pr.eregistration will occur in whitaker House and each student .has been assigned a specific time to preregister. . Preregistration materials will be available at the Registrar's Office t>eginning Friday .~ebruary t9th. Students should review the course listing, consult with tlleir advisers, and_ select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students. to have a fourth and fifth choice .in mind in case one o.f their first three choices becomes 11nava:ilalble. TO . PREREGISTER EVERY STUDENT WILL BE REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PREREGISTRATION FORM. IF THEIR ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDENT • SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CH:AIHMAN.QF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. . Some courses are avaialable o·nly with the permission of the department These are · referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated o.n the course listing. by an asterisk(').~ for thesi courses will be postfid by the departments on W~dnesday. Fet>nuary 24th. Students should sign these lists to indicate an .interest and then should return to the departments on Fridpy. February 26th. to find out wether or not they havl€ been admitted. Those admitted to a.list course L!11J..S1get a reservation card from the depar:tment. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWEDTO PRER~GISTER FOR A \LIST'' COURSE WITHOUfSUCH A CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for an independent study or internship will require written permission of the sta:pervising faculty member and department chairman on the form availalbe at the Registrar's Office. 1lle date and time for e~ch student's appointment is printed on the lal:>el aHixed to the \Preregistratiom Course Request Form.\ Students may not preregister .Jil!l.Qr to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday March 4th. Additional course changes may be made during the Drop/Add period at the start of the spr'iflg terr:f1. Siudents will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their \Preregistration Co~::~rse· Request Form'' (this fo.rm, filled out AND SIGNED BY THEIR ADVISER, must be brought to prere.gistration).. Once inside they should verify that the courses they· des.ire . are not closed. If one or more course are closed, ~hey should select new ones and correct · their preregistratio.n form. Then they should see a staff member who wilt :preregister them. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, e:xcept graduating seniors, must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. Potential March graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar immediately oHh.eir rrlc:ms to finish their studies at the end of the winter term, if they have not already done so. You've thought about it. You've tried to imagine what it would ·be like. You know it would be exciting. And a challenge. And quite possibly the most rewarding experience of your life .•• Three Americans overseas in Asia, Africa and South America speak frankly on what . Peace Corps life is like for them. It isn't easy and it isn't for everyone-they'll tell you that up front. But if you've ever considered going overseas in the Peace Corps, then now is your chance to see and hear for yourself what could be \the toughest job you'll ever love.\ Note: Former Peace Corps volunteers will be on hand to answer questions following the 25 minute film. And it's free! FEBRUARY 29th, 7:00PM CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFFICE For further information please call Career Placement at 370-6176. U.S. Peace Corps Tbe Movie 11 1be Toughest Job You'll fver Love\ \ Page 5 DUTCHMAN'S DINNER EVERY FRIDAY EV'ENING Reservations accepted till s~oa prn on Thursday. Meal cards must be punched beforehand to insure your reservation. WE HAVE TWOSEATINGSFOR YOUR CONVENIENCE -5:30AND 7:00PM SO STOP BY THE DUTCH HOLLOW EARLY IN THE WEEK Upcoming Menu Will F~ature Many Of Your Favorite?. . University of Rochester Gr·aduate School of Education & Human Devel4>pment We Match Empire State Scholarships (full-time~ matriculated students only) Apply today for admission for M.Ed. & MAT leading to teacher certification Deadline for Completed Application: . July 1, 1988 Write or call (collect) Office. of Academic Services, GSEHD 304 Lattimore • University of Rochester Rochester NY 14627 (716) 275 .. 3950 i j . I . I

. Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, February 18, 1988 FEATURES Out to Eat With Hersh and 'Robe By ANDREWHERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS Sutter's Mill and Mining Co. If you enjoy burgers, cheese fries, chicken . wings and such in a bar and grill atmosphere, Sutter's Mill and Mining Co. may be worth the trip. Located on Western Avenue, across from SUNY Albany, Sutter's is a .popular spot and deservedly so. Inside Sutter's there is a good- sized bar, a semi-open kitchen and plenty of seating. Sutter's interior is presently being renovated; the walls are a mix of frewh wood paneling and, as yet-uncovered insulation. The new treatment, making the restaurant seem light and airy, looks very promising. Several vide.o games and a jukebox complete the main room; there is also a back dining room that offers waitress service and a slightly more extensive menu. Sutter's offers a variety of sandwiches, such as pastrami, French dip and tWla, in addition to grillep and fried items. The system at Sutter's is similar to Union's Rathskellar; you place your order at the bar and wait for your number to be called. I ordered a hamburger with lettuce and tomato, and Robe chose a chicken teriyaki sand- wich. We also shared- a large order of cheese fries and twenty-five mild chicken wings. We both had cokes, which we~e commendably large, and not just ice. ~Y hamburger, served on a poppy-seed roll, was large and delicious. The \charbroiled'!> meat was very tasty and cooked exactly as I had ordered. The roll was much better than that found on most burgers. Robe did not enjey his chicken, which was also.served on a poppy-seed, roll, quite as much. The teriyalti was flavorful, but somehow the taste was overshadowed by the large roll. While certainlY not bad, the chicken was a little too thin and dry. Robe felt it was a good sandwich, but at $3.95 with no extras, not a great one. I agreed that the piece of chicken was too small, but I liked its taste more than Robe did. The French fries, thin and golden brown and topped with excellent melted cheddar cheese, were amazing. They were crispy and had plenty of cheese-but not enough to make them soggy. I felt they were the best I had ever tasted, while Robe said that, short of some he had had in Philadelphia, they were his favorite. On the whole, we really en• joyed the chicken wings, although they could have been meatier. They were served with chunky bleU cheese dre~sing, and plenty of carrots and celery. The sauce was very good; it was not sweet like some mild sauces, but seasoned perfectly and just spicy enough. As an added bonus, Sutter's had ten cent wings on Wednesday nights. The bartenders and cooks at Sutter's are quick and very friendly. Based on our 1-10 point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave Sutter's_Mill and Mining Co. an Blh. Robe agreed. Sutter's Mill and Mining Co. 1200 Western Avenue Albany, NY 489-4910 Price, with tax: $16.50 Philosophy Forum By CHIDSEY DICKSON Let's say that you are a. responsible adult who acts maturely in social situatiorts. who has a friendly relationshi() with the people you come ill contact with at work or school, who has a mother who thinks the world of you, who has pet who depends on you for love an(! affeCtion and the occassiortal bowl of food, however. you take some illicit drugs in the privacy of your own home on the ac- cassion of your free-time. Let us say, then, that ycu cannot get a job with Genet\al Electric and other companies with similiar mandatory dr11g testing requisites for their employees (this includes many of the New York Investment Banking firms: Goldman Saks): Is this testing a violation of your right to privacy (one ofthe rights you claim as fact of your U.S. citizenship}? Is it an attempt by the private sector to dictate morality? Is it not either of these transgressions but, rather, simply ''rude\ of these com- panies te insist that I submit myself to their doctor's in- strt.UDents if only for the pur- poses of assuring their moral expectations of their em- ployees? Regardless, mandatory drug testing is a policy that is gaining popularity among private businesses. Come! To a Panel discussion of this highly relevant issue on Tuesday, Feb. 23, 1988 at 7:30 P.M. inHumanities 114. That's this Tuesday, so mark your calendars. lt's like this: A Room of One's Own By MARJORIE HOFFER Features Editor After two years of living in a single, and two years of living in a double, fran fully appreciate both arrangements. During seventh week syndrome when you feel like killing your roommate because you hate the smell of his or her deoderant, remember living alone is not always the most desireable position. However,. it does have its pro's: First, you can do WHAT you want WHEN you want and with WHO you want - all the time - nobody knows. You can sleep whenever you want. No other alarm will wake you up, and if you take a nap during the day; nobody will stop you. Also, if you get insomnia during the night, you can turn on the lights and read a book. always be f(lr you, lmt so will ALL the phone calls, :and best of • aU, you ALWAYS nave your own private phone. But, sometimes a roommate comes in handy. For the following reasons, I do ap- preciate the two y~ars that I · spent with two of tile greatest people on campus: You have twice as many clothes with a roomillate. You don't have to worry if you run out of toothpaste, your roommate will havE some to lend. You can look forward to the times when your roornate goes out for Chinese and bf'ings you back the left overs; and when your roomates' moiher sends up her amazing chooeolate chip banana cake. If the room is mes-sy and you want to impress. someone, you can always blame it on your Sometimes living together has its benefits. You can keep your room messy or as neat as you like and no one will call you a slob - or . think you are caught in the anal stage. You can decorate your room the way you like. If you have an aversion to those \cute\ posters of animals sticking their head out from a shoe saying, \its been a rough day\ - you don't have to put them up. If you are in a bad mood you can go into YOUR room, shut YOUR door and nobody will bother you. The people who come to visit you will be YOUR friends. If you hate your roonunates' latest romantic fling, or other set of friends, don't worry, they won't bother you in a single. The 2:00 am phone calls will roomate. When you come borne from a . boring night out, you have someone to gpssip witll. at night. Your phone will ring twice as often and you wiU feel more · · popular. _ You know twicoe as much gossip. You have an iJlstant friend. who will always listen to you complain, and agvee that if you . do badly on a test tbatit was the Professor's faUlt. When your roomate's parents come to visit, they also take you out for dinner. There is somecme on the campus who- Ulll!Oilditionally appreciates the real you. And finally, w!J.o better to reminisce with in :!0 years than your roomate? Congratul~tions to the ski team for finishing third in their league and making the -Eastern Championship_ ASEMBLYMAN ARTHUR 0. EVE Monday, February 22, 1988 7:00pm College Center/ Auditorium The Black and Latin Studer~t · Alliance and the Career Development Center are sponsoring a speaker for all students interested in hearing about the EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM AND ITS IMPACT ON CAREER OPTIONS FOR MINORITIES. Refreshments Will Be Serlfed I Professor Frances Anderson of Albany Law School, An as yet Unnamed Representative from The General Electric company, and two student Philosophy Fort.UD members will be giving, in turn, three ten-minute talks on relevant aspects of madatory testing. Discussion will follow. ATTE'NTION -SENIORS The General and Interested Public is Welcome. It concerns you in important ways, so at• tend, listen and talk. Or just attend-it'll get you free Coke and Brie Cheese! ! ! ! ! THESKELLAR The Way It Was Will Be Again Saturday, Feb. 20th BE THERE! !!

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, February Jfj, 1988 FEATURES Out to Eat With Hersh and Robe By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS Sutter's Mill and Mining Co. If you enjoy burgers, cheese fries, chicken wings and such in a bar and grill atmosphere, Sutter's Mill and Mining Co. may be worth the trip. Ulcated on Western A venue, across from SUNY Albany, Sutter's is a popular spot and deservedly so. Inside Sutter's there is a good- sized bar, a semi-open kitchen and plenty of seating. Sutter's interior is presently being renovated; the walls are a mix of frewh wood paneling and, as yet-Wlcovered insulation. The new treatment, making the restaurant seem light and airy, looks very promising. Several video games and a jukebox complete the main room; there is also a back dining room that offers waitress service and a slightly more extensive menu. Sutter's offers a variety of sandwiches, such as pastrami, French dip and tuna, in addition to grilled and fried items. The system at Sutter's is similar to Union's Rathskellar; you place your order at the bar and wait for your number to be called. I ordered a hamburger with lettuce and tomato, and Robe chose a chicken teriyaki sand- wich. We also shared a large order of cheese fries and twenty-five mild chicken wings. We both had cokes, which were commendably large, and not just ice. ~Y hamburger, served on a poppy-seed roll, was large and delicious. The \charbroiled\ meat was very tasty and cooked exactly as I had ordered. The roll was much better than that found on most burgers. Robe did not enjoy his chicken, which was also served on a poppy-seed roll, quite as much. The teriyaki was flavorful, but somehow the taste was overshadowed by the large roll. While certainly not bad, the chicken was a little too thin and dry. Robe felt it was a good sandwich, but at $3.95 with no extras, not a great one. I agreed that the piece of chicken was too small, but I liked its taste more than Robe did. The French fries, thin and golden brown and topped with excellent melted cheddar cheese, were amazing. They were crispy and had plenty of cheese--but not enough to make them soggy. I felt they were the best I had ever tasted, while Robe said that, short of some he had had in Philadelphia, they were his favorite. On the whole, we really en- joyed the chicken wings, although they could have been meatier. They were served with ' chunky bleu cheese dressing, and plenty of carrots and celery. The sauce was very good; it was not sweet like some mild sauces, but seasoned perfectly and just spicy enough. As an added bonus, Sutter's had ten cent wings on Wednesday nights. 'The bartenders and cooks at Sutter's are quick and very friendly. Based on our 1-10 point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave Sutter's Mill and Mining Co. an 8~. Robe agreed. Sutter's Mill and Mining Co. 1200 Western Avenue Albany, NY 489-4910 Price, with tax: $16.50 Philosophy Forum By CHIDSEY DICKSON Let's say that you are a responsible adult who acts maturely in social situations, who has a friendly relationship with the people you come in contact with at work or school, who has a mother who thinks the world of you, who has pet who depends on you for love and affection and the occassional bowl of food, however, you take some illicit drugs in the privacy of your own home on the oc- cassion of your free-time. Let us say, then, that you cannot get a job with General Electric and other companies with similiar mandatory drug testing requisites for their employees tthis includes many of the New York Investment Banking firms: Goldman Saksl: Is this testing a violation of your right to privacy (one of the rights you claim as fact of your U.S. citizenship)? Is it an attempt by the private sector to dictate morality? Is it not either of these transgressions but, rather, simply \rude\ of these com- panies to insist that I submit myself to their doctor's in- struments if only for the pur- poses of assuring their nnoral expectations of their em- ployees? Regardless, mandatory drug testing is a policy that is gaining popularity among private businesses. Come! To a Panel discussion of this highly relevant issue on Tuesday, Feb. 23, 19&8 at 7:30 P.M. in Humaruties lH. That's this Tuesday, so mark your calendars. It's lllie this: A Room of One's Own By MARJORIE HOFFER Features Editor always be for you, l>ut so will ALL the phone calls, and best of aU, you ALWAYS have your own private phone. After two years of living irt a single, and two years of Hviag in a double, !'can fully appreciate both arrangements. During seventh week syndrome when you feel like killing your roommate because you hate the smell of his or her deoderallt, remember living alone is not always the most desircable position. However, it does ha\'e its pro's: But, sometimes a roommate comes in handy. For the following reasoFis, I do ap- preciate the two years that I Iii!!~§~~!§§§ spent with two of the greatest people on campus: You have twice as many clothes with a roommate. You don't have to W()rry if you run out of toothpaste, your roommate will have some to lend. First, you can do WHAT f@U want WHE~ you want and with WHO you want · all the tinle · nobody knows. You can sleep whenever you want. No other alarm wiH wake you up, and if you take a nap during the day, nobody will stop you. Also, if you get insonmia during the night, you can turn on the lights and read a book You can look forward to the times when your ro@mate goes out for Chinese and brings yau back the left overs, and when your roomates' mother sends up her amazing chocolate chip banana cake. If the room is messy and you want to impress someone, you can always blame it on your Sometimes living together has its benefits. You can keep your room messy or as neat as you like and no one will call you a slob - or think you are caught in the anal stage. You can decorate your r\oom the way you like. If you have an aversion to those \cute\ posters of animals sticking their head out from a shoe saying, ''its been a rough day\ - you don't have to put them up. If you are in a bad mood. you can go into YOUR room, shut YOUR door and nobody will bother you. The people who come to visit you will be YOUR friends. If you hate your roommates' latest romantic fling, or other set of friends, don't worry, they won't bother you in a single. The 2:00 am phone calls will roomate. When you come hCJme from a boring night out, you have someone to gossip with at night. Your phone will ring twice as often and you will feel more popular. You know twice as much gossip. You have an instant friend who will always listen to you complain, and agree that if you do badly on a test that it was the Professor's fault. When your roomate's parents come to visit, they also take you out for dinner. There is someone Oil the campus who unconditionally appreciates the real you. And finally, who better to reminisce with in 20 years than your roomate? Congratul~tions to the ski team for finishing third in their league and making the Eastern Championship ASEMBLYMAN ARTHUR 0. EVE Monday, February 22, 1988 7:00pm College Center/ Auditorium The Black and Latin Student Alliance and the Career Development Center are sponsoring a speaker for all students interested in hearing about the EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM AND ITS IMPACT ON CAREER OPTIONS FOR MINORITIES. Refreshments Will Be Served Professor Frances Anderson of Albany Law School, An as yet Unnamed Representative from The General Electric company, and two student Philosophy Forwn members will be giving, in turn, three ten-minute talks on relevant aspects of madatory testing. Discu.ssion will follow. A JJ:ENTION SENIORS The General and Inter-ested Public is Welc~me. It concerns you in important ways, so at- tend, listen and talk. Or just attend-it'll get you fie~ Coke and Brie Cheese! ! ! ! ! THESKELLAR The Way It Was Will Be Again Saturday, Feb. 20th BE THERE! ' . ' l ~. ! i

I I' CONCORDJENSIS, February 18, 1988 Page 7 WRUC TRIVIA Here are the standings after the first week of TRIVIA! DORMS Hikock 17 West 5 ·Fox 1 · INDEPENDENTS Wasted Goats 12 Floyd 7 S-1-W's 4 . Killer Squirrels From Hell a· Express 1 GREEKS Phi Neat Guys 22 ZBT 11 Kappa Alpha 2 There were three stumpers and 2 points were removed due to protests. This week's bonus question: Before evolving to it's current can l·etters, \W-R-U-C\, Unio.n's station had 5 previous sets of call letters. Name each set. ROUND 2•SUNDA Y AT 8 PM ON WRUC 89.7 FM FEATURES A Study .. \Abroad\ Program in New York City?? Nearly 200 students from all corners of the Unjted States (39 states), and even as far away as Japan, have participated in a very special \stUdy . abroad\ experience. It's called the Junior Year in New York (JYNY} Program and was initiated .by Hunter College of the City University of New York in the fall of 1982. The rich diversity of cultural, ethnic, educational, and profe,s,sional resources available in NYC make it an incomparable learning site for inquisitive minds and ambitious spirits. The JYNY is designed to allow college students to benefit fully from spending a year in one .of the world's major cities. Another benefit of the program is the opportunity students have to develop close friendships with students from other parts of the U.S. as well as from around the world. _ JYNY students engage in three main activities while they're at Hunter College( 1) two semesters of academic course work which enables them to continue earning credits toward their degrees; 2) internships in organizations S • • • en1or1t1s By LEATA JACKSON Senioritis is a column designed to bring together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of '88. Why we should be concerned about policies that will affect Union after we leave. Many times, I have heard seniors say, \Yeah but we'll be gone by then.\ There is a very good reason for being con- cerned about what will happen to Union after we leave. Scenario: The time- 1993. The person- you. The place- a job or graduate school interview. The interviewer asks you about your undergraduate education. Of course, you say you graduated from Union College in Schenectady; New York. Everyone's heard of Union, right?!! But the interviewer will think of the reputation Union has in 1993, not· what it was between 1984 and 1988. We have a vested interest in the fnture of Union - the level of achievement of the students, the reputation of the school, t~e physical ''improvements,'' tHe education and admissions policies- because (1) we have invested four years here and hopefully we are leaving a mark on Union that we can be proud of, and (2) we want pe.Jple to still be impressed when we say \I went to Union College.\ A NEW SEMINAR ON: \The Military and Militarism'' Sqclology 65 Course Instructor· Professor John Hartman .Iil:!la;_9 - 10:40 AM Tuesdays and Thursdays Covrsfl! descr(pt!oo- The centrality of militarism to modern society makes it a question of- major public and sociological concern. The end of detente, escalating military budgets, the increased domestic use of armed forces, and the ·prevalence of war made n ari urgent political question. This class provides some background to the various aspect& of · militarism and suggests possible frameworks for understanding it. We proceed by first looking at U.S. military Institutions, examining questions of cohesion, motivation, economics and Ideology. We then turn to the rola of tha ml!ltar.y in developing countries, examl11ing how the military comes to power and how 'II acts when it Is In power. We will also look at pol!tico·mllltary relations. addressing questions of covert action, Insurgency, military assistance and citizenship. if tlrrie permits, wa will attempt to compare civil mllhary relations Think about it. -Please support the senior class gift. It's an opportWlity to give back a little for what you may have received here; -Even if you are going . to graduate school, yoti shoUld see a CDC cqunselor about your resume. -Order commencement annoWlcements in Mrs . .Marra's office by February 22. -COMMENCEMENT JUNE 12, 1988. Do you realize we a.re the last class to remember: The longest, steepest flight of stairs in Schenectady that used to lead up to the front door of Carnegie. Fox and Davidson loUnges without the trees. In your three-and-one-half years here how many of these have you participated in? Bloodm<lbiles Cabarets WRUC trivia This is your last chance ... Only 121 more days to be awakened by the beep from garbage trucks, maintenance trucks, plows and construction equipment backing up at 7 a.m. Ideas and input for this column are welcome. Pray for sunshine on graduation day; I can't see commencing from the rink. East and W$SI. See Professor Hartman for further information. Social Science Building 2~5A • Open to students who have taken Introductory Sociology or Anthropology. othBf students by perinlsslon of lnstr!lctor. - AGAit4 OFFERING: The Sociology of 09Ve!Qping Countries Socjo!pgv 137 !LL category Dl Course jnstrUQIQ[; Professor Martha Huggins ~Tuesdays and Thursdays .2:40-4:20 PM An analysis of th!3 patterns of economic, social and political change In dEveloping countries, through case studies of different development strategies In Latin America, Africa and the Caribbean. This course will be of particular Interest tO students of Anthropology, International AHairs, Political Science, Sociology and Ecology. I especially welcome students who haVEr studied and/or traveled abroad. Your course term paper may examine any region of the developing world. throughout the city in which students acquire practical experience in their field of in- terest; .3) a cultural events \laboratory\ eourse entitled \The Arts in New York City\ which exposes program par- ticipants to the wide range of cultural and artistic traditions and trends which are unique to NYC. Through this cultural events course many students are introduced to a wide variety of the performing and visual arts for the first time. The course unites direct experience of the arts with classroom lecture and discussions. What some of last year's students had to say about the JYNY: ~\Taking part in the JYNY Program was the wisest college decision I made. Not only did it give me the opportunity to work with top professionals in my field of study, but it also enabled me to experience a different college, live in New York, and learn about so many different cultures. Even if you don't intend to live in New York, taking part in the· JYNY program would not be a mistake. Things you learn from living and working in New York are things you couldn't learn anywhere else.\ Elise Frankovitz, Cormnunications major, University of Indiana, Bloomington, IN. -\JYNY is a program that every college student should do because it really helps you to understand the real world by working in internships and living in New York.\ Christine Sanders, Music major, UniversitY .. of Hartford, West Hartford CT. . -\You're. going to disco:ver more about yourself than you ever imagined; take it in stride, you're not the only one that ever experienced such a transition.\ Tom Caughlin, .Jr., Com- munications major, Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, MI. -\Students want to come to New YQrk because they have big dreams. Through the JYNY Program, you'll find your dreams· realized through in- ternships and living in NYC.\ Minerva FinJdey, Film major, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA. Each student is assigned a faculty advisor in their major who helps select courses that will fulfill the requirements of the home college. The visiting students are housed in single rooxns at the Hunter College dormitory, which is a con- venient conunute away from the main campus. The cost (tuition, special program fee, and room) comes out to be less than $5,000 for the year. For more information call the Junior Year in New York Program at 212-772-5005 or write to JYNY . Program, Hunter College, P.O. Box 361, 695 Park Ave., NY, NY 10021. A NEW COURSE: Medical Anthropol~y Antbrapplogy 13 • This Introductory course will explore the interrelationships between biology, culture, and ecology in the causation ol huma11 disease. The central theme of the course IS that the diseases which affect a given population are determined by that population's ecology. Its adaptation to the environment, the nature of the biotic an abiotic environments, and the interactions between these systems. The course Will develop an ecological approach to the understanding of the distflbution of human disease over time and 1n ddlerent geographical contexts. Spec1fic topics to be covered include I) a historic overv1ew of the major causes of human mortal1ty and morbidity; 2) the effects of culture contact and culture change on human health; 3) patterns of nur11110n at varying levels of cultural complexitY and their effects on human heahh, and 4) the role of stret.s in human d1soase. EthnographiC examples as well as data from archeology. paleopathology. and public hoahh will be ut1!ized to Illustrate the4& t cs.

' ,, . '. , ' ' l .. CONCORDJENSIS, February 18, 1988 Page 7 WRUC TRIVIA Here are the stalld ings after the first week of TRIVIA! DORMS Hikock 17 West Fox GREEKS 5 1 Phi Neat Guys 22 ZBT 11 Kappa Alpha 2 INDEPENDENTS Wasted Goats 1 2 Floyd 7 S-1-W's 4 Killer Squirrels From Hell 3 Express 1 There were tllree stumpers and 2 points were removed due to protests. This week's bonus question: Before evolving to it's current call letters, \W·R-U-C\, Union's station had 5 previous sets of call letters. Name each set. ROUND 2-SUNDAY AT 8 PM ON WRUC 89.7 FM FEATURES; A Study \Abroad\ Program in New York City?? Nearly 200 students from aU corners of the United States ( 39 states), and even as far a way as Japan, have participated in a very special \study a broad\ experience. It's called the JWlior Year in New York (JYNY) Program and was initiated by Hunter College of t~e City URiversity of New York in the fall of 1982. The rich diversity 11f cllltural, ethnic, educational, and professional resources available in NYC make it an incomparable learning stte for inquisitive minds a11d ambitious spirits. The JYNY is desig11ed to allew college students to ben~fit fully from spending a year in one of the world's major cities. Another benefit of the program. is the opportunity students have to develop close friendships with students from other parts of the U.S. as well as from aroWld the world. JYNY students engage in three main activities while they're at Hunter College( lJ two semesters of academic course work which enables them to continue earning credits toward their degrees; 2) internships in organizations Senioritis By LEATA JACKSON Senioritis is a column designed to bring together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of '88. Why we should be cmcerned about policies that will affect l ;nion after we leave. :Ylan:v times. I he-we heard seniors say, \Yeah but we·u be gone by then.\ There is a very good reason for being con- cerned about what will happe!l to Union after we leave_ Scenario: The time- 19m. The person- you. The place ·a job or graduate school interview. The interviewer asks you arout your undergraduate educati()n. Of colll'se, you say you graduated from Union Coll~ge in Schenectady, New York. Everyone's heard of Union, right~!? But the interviewer will think of the r~putation Union has in 1993, not· what it was between 1984 and 1988. We have a vested interest in the future of Union - tb.e level of achievement of the students, the reputation of the school, t~e physical \improvements the education and admissions policies - because (1) we have invested four years llere and hopefully we are leavin~ a mark on Union that we can l>e proud of, and (2) we want people to still be impressed when we say \I went to Union College.\ A NEW SEMINAR ON: \'fhc Military and Mili1arlsrn•• Socjo!ogy 65 Course instructor· Professor John Hartman .IiJm..;._9 . 10:40 AM Tuesdays and Thursdays Course description· The centrality of militarism to modern society makes it a question of major public and sociological concern. The end of detente, escalating military budgets, the increased domestic usE of armed forces, and the prevalence of \liar made rt an urgent polit,cal question. This c1ass provides some bacKground to ttle varioui> aspects ol militansm and suggests possible frameworks for under~> tanding >t. We proceed oy 1 1 rst looKing at U.S. mlitary institutions, examm1ng quest1ons of cohes1on. t'lOtivat>on, economrcs and ideology. Wo then turn to lhtl role of the military rn develop1ng c;ountnes, examining t-ow the military comes to power and how 11 acts when it is 1n power. We will also look at polii>Co·milltary relations, addressing q ueosttons of covert act1on, insurgency, military assistance. and citizenship. il time permns, we will attempt to compare civil military relations Think about it. -Please support the senior class gift. It's an opportWlity to give back ~ little for what you may have received here. -Even if y0u are going to graduate school, you should see a CDC counselor about your resume. -Order co nun ~nee men t announcements m Mrs. J..1ar ra· s office by February 22. -COMMENCEMENT JUNE 12, 1988. Do you realize we are the last class to remember: The longest. steepest flight of stairs in Schenectady that used to lead up to the front door of Carnegie. Fox and Davidson lounges without the trees. In your three-and-one-half years here how many of these have you participated in? Bloodmobiles Cabarets WRUC trivia This is your last chance ... Only 121 more days t~ be awakened by the beep from garbage trucks, maintenance trucks, plows and construction equipment backing up at 7 a.m. Ideas and input for this ::!olurnn are welcome. Pray for sunshine on graduation day; I can't see corrunencing from the rink. East and West. See Professor Hartman for furti1er information. Social Scleonce Building 2 t 5A • Open to students who have taken Introductory Sociology or Anthropology. oth81 students by permission of Instructor. AGAIN OFFERING: The Sociology of Peveloping Countries Sociology 137 ILL categor~ D.l Course wstructoc Prolessor J.ilartha Huggins ~Tuesdays and Thursdays 2:40-4.20 PM An analysis ol the patterns of economiC. SOCial and ooh11cal change m devs1opong countrieS, through case stud><l& ol d1fferent development strategoes >n Laton AmeriCa, Alnca and the Caribbean. This course Will be ol partiCu~r inteor~sl to students of Anthropology, lrltarnal>onal Affairs, Political sc,encs. Soc>ology and Ecology. I especially welcome st udants who haveo stud1ed andlor traveled abroad. Your course term paper rnay e<amne any reg10n of the develop1ng M>rld. throughout the city in which students acquire practical experience in their field of in- terest; 3 J a cult ural events \laboratory\ course entitled \The Arts in New York City\ which exposes program par- ticipants to the wide range of cultural and artistic traditions and trends which are unique to NYC. Through this cultural events course many students are intraduced to a wide variety of the performing and visual arts for the first time. The course unites direct experience of the arts with classroom lecture and discussions. What some of last year's students had to say about the JYNY: 'T<tl<.mg p<d i:, ·Jt.' .TY\'Y Prugrar11 l~i.l:-, lL• ,,;;,c·:-~ , , :Jq;:• decision 1 made \' ot \n ly f\irl it giv..: :J,t 'J;1· ''PP\r'. ·:r;:t; •, ·.,·,rk 1\i~L '-\P jJro.fbsi1,:1ab ;L :11\· fi•_•ld oJfstudy, but il als(, mabled me to experience a dtfferent college. ltve 111 :\L•I\ Yu1k a11d Jearn about S!l wanv dtfferen: cultures. Even if ·you don't intend to live in New York, taking part in the JY:\:Y program would nut be a mistake Thing~ y uu learn fwm livmg and wurkUtg 1n ;.;ew Yurk are things yuu L·,,uldn ·: !eum am 1\ here ds t:. · · !·~ :1 se Frankovitz, Cornrn unications major, University of Indiana, Bloomington, IN. -\JYNY is a program that every college student should do because it really helps you to Wlderstand the real world by working in internships and living in New York.\ Christine Sanders, Music major, University of Hartford, West Hartford CT. -\You're going to discover more about yourself than you ever imagined; take it in stride, you're not the only vne that ever experienced such <t tr<lnsition.\ Tom Caughlin, .Jr., Com- munications major, Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, MI. -\Studems want to come to New Y()rk because they have big dreams. Through the JYNY Program, you'll find your dreams realized through in- ternships and living in NYC.\ Minerva Finkley, Film major, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA. Each student is assigned a faculty advisor in their major who helps select courses that will fulfill the requirements of the home college. The visiting students are hollSed in single rooms at the Hunter College dormitory, which is a con- venient commute a way from the main campus. The cost (tuition, special program fee, and room) comes out to be less than $5,000 for the year. For more information call the Junior Year in New York Program at 212-772-5005 or write to JYNY Program, Hunter College, P.O. Box: 361, 695 Park Ave., NY, NY 10021. A NEW COlJRSE: Medjcal Anthrooology Aothrooologv 13' Th1s introductory course Will explore the mterrelatlonsh,ps between b1o1ogy. culture. and ecotogy 1n the causat•on of human d1sease. The central·theme ol the course Is that the drseases WhtCh af1oct a g1ven populatiOn are determ1nad by that populatiOn's ecology. 1ts adapt alton to the anv1ronmanl, 1he nature of the bro1tC an abtOtrc envrrorments. ard the Jnteract•ons between these systems. The course w>11 oeveloo an ecorog,cal approach to the understandrng oi !he d str·bubofl of human d1seass over ltf119 and '\' drflerent geograph>cal contexts Spec·f•c too•cs 10 be covered tndude 11 t3 t'11S1or ~ overvtev. of H1e ma,ar ca·1ses ol t1urnan fTl0:'1ahty and fTKJfbtdrty. 21 tt')e sf•octs of CLo11urs contact and Cu'fure c:\af'ge Ol\l '\\vrnan hearth, 31 patterr-5 or rut'•t•on at vA'Y·~\~g revels ol C\Jitural compiS'X•l'f' are! 'hQH affects on ,,v.....,a..., ~e<l\\'· arrt 4' '\'A •o•e ol stress 1n \'u'\ld' d·s.eclSe ttt·nog,apr.c axamp1es as well as cl~' a rro,., archeology pa1aopa1ho1ogy and pr,bhc health wtll be utd,zed lo 11tustrato t'-e I Cjl

Page s· CONCORDIENSIS» February 18, 1988 ~ - .• ._-.- INTERNATIONAL FEATURE.S The Cross-Cultural Experience Life On a Sm_all Planet By GARY STEINBAUM International Features Editor What does it mean to have a cross-cultaral experience? This was the topic discussed at an informati()nal meeting to help clarify what the term abroad experience should be like and the problems one might en- counter when immersing oneself in another culture for an extended period of time. Sigrid Kellenter, head of the Modern Languages Department, served as moder-ator for this panel discussion. Both students and faculty were represented on the panel, and each one contributed his ideas and experiences relating to the cross cultural situation. Professor Kellenter opened up the discussion by talking about culture, and how one can experience cultural differences within one's own country by living with people from other religious groups or social classes, as well as immersing oneself in another country where a different language is spoken. She then questioned why one would want to place themselves in a different culture and make life more difficult. Professor Kellenter answered this rhetor-ical question with the statement that one might want to be in a situation where they have to behave in a. new fashion, in order to enbance their un- derstanding of themselves and the world around them. She also discussed how the trivial things that one takes fi>r granted in their own country become very important when the:,.· no longer are available in the new culture. On a term abroad, one should take time to evaluate both the emotional and intellectual matters that are occurring during the cross cultural experience. She commented that we have to be aware of what is happening to us in the new cultural situation. The program then progressed York Minster to the panel of speakers, Nicolas Boch, a student from Paris at Union, spoke about life at a college in America. Nicolas spoke on how being in another culture is a very emotional experience. Although Nicolas had learned English in France and studied American culture in depth through magazi11es, newspapers, books, movies, and radio, he felt that although he knew a lot about the country, he had no opportunity to \feel\ the country. For the first three months that he was here, Nicolas felt like a voyeur, making his experience very superficial, \watching from the outside.\ After a While he became accustomed to life at Union. His dreams about-life in Americ<l faded, and he ex- perienced real life situations which changed his precon- ceptions of the American culture. He realized that, like at home, there were good and bad sides of life at Union, and \you learnt() live and acceptit.\ May Cheugg, a senior biology major, just returned from the term abroad in China. She was apprehensive about · talking about the Chinese people bec~use she did not want to stereotype them. May found the Chinese to be tremendously open. She f()und that this made communication much easier. She shared with the audience some· fwmy anecdotes of in- cidents, in China. Though one, she discovered that the Chinese have false generalizations of Americans, and therefore, one should be careful about stereotypes. 'Her advice to someone going on a term abroad is to \not be passive, find a good friend to help y()u explore the culture and get insight into the culture. Don't just laugh at it. Ponder it, z then look back on it. The ex- > perie11ce is precious.\ ~ Professor Byron Nichols, ~ professor of political science, fri spoke about the definition of o cultur-e. Be explained that o cultur-e is patterns of human it behavior and patterns of doing and interacting. He then e~­ plained where culture comes Yor '87 By JASON FEINGOLD and LISA MARZILLI As students returning from our term abroad in York (of coarse) we thought we'd share some of our observations with you. While students are much alike around the world, there are some interesting differ- ences that one encounters. They certainly party as hard as Uni()n does, but they do it all earlier than we do. For them, pubs close at 11 o'clock. When we are thinking about going out they are coming in. It was traumatic and disappointing to be in a pub and hear the call for last orders at' 10:50. We lear- ned to start early. After dinners is a good time. It handily eliminates that hiatus between dinner and partying through which we suffer. It's more time efficient. York is the only pr()gram that offers the opportunity to live in dorms. Everbody gets a single room. They also have cleaning ladies (never say maids) that can clean up each person's room, but you have to clean up for them because they won't clean if it's really bad. Mine was. You do, however, meet a lot of people in the dorms. Its just like being a regular student there. Many nights are spent drinking gallons of coffee and tea after the pubs close. The British students were baffled by the idea of fraternity parties. Their partying centers around the sports teams and clubs. They really encourage students to participate in as many activities as possible. Their sports were all coached by upperclassmen which allowed for a more relaxed atmosphere.Instead of stopping at McDonalds after a game, it was the general practice to stop at the pub for a pint of lager (two pints if you won!). The students there also tend to be a lot more into drama and the arts. The students l»'!t on many plays as part of their classes. Some of them are even pottery majors. Pretty good deal, hllh? How about human movement as a major? They . call it sport for short. From a political standpoint, · the students really enjoy debating the issues of the day over a pint of lager. They were at ease to make .satirical comments about their own government. This could be shown by the weekly show called Spitting Image~ In this show, political figures were charicatured by . puppets making fun of their appearence and their actions. (They had a field day with Reagan, to say theleast). Term aproad in York was an excellent experience.It was a rare opportunity to liv\ just like the students there do. The food was actually sometil' ~s worse than it is here, but 1at's not what matters anyv ay. The atmosphere, however, was unbeatable. It needs to be ex~ perienced. · from. It comes from the material environment, meaning resources and weather. This determines the type of clothing that will be worn, the food that will be prepared; and more. The second component of culture comes from the ideas the human brain develops. With the in- teraction of these things the culture is fonnulated. When a new technology is introduced, the patterns will change. Professor Nichols believes that developing a'n un- det·standing of the language of the culture is very important to becoming part of that culture. Also, body language of a people tells a lot about the patterns of human relationships amongst the culture. Finally, physical objects have different meanings that vary from culture to culture for example, the shower and telephone are not always used as much in other cultures. Nick· Piccirillo then spoke about his year abroad in Carlsruhe, West Germany. He found the university in Calsruhe to be more politically oriented than it is here. Also, Americans are not very dif- ferent and are not a rarity in Germany, so at first meeting people and making friends was · difficult. The university's system varied also. The engineering lectures were based on theory and practical problems were not discussed. Moreover, there was only one final exam given and that determined the final grade. Nick feels you must \live anfl hear a culture out.\ Slowly the \differences adapt into one's personality. l3y the end of the epxerience you are living the differences and the pecularities are no longer realized.\ However, the \realization comes into being when one returns home~·'' His advice to other Americans going on a term abroad is to realize that you are rept~esenting your country and to show Americans to be friendly and acceptable people. Also he says \people are people and prejudices will succwnb.\ Barry Smith, associate professor of drama and the advisor for foreign students, talked about how one should relax and read the cues that are right before one's eyes\ when in another culture and not to let the fear of making a mistake get in the way of true in- teraction. He also expressed the fact that one should not look at the culture shock in purely negative terms. One should be ready for it and experience it, but realize that afterwards when one is adjusted, there will be a whole new dimension of experiences. Also, Americans have the tendency to want to accomplish a certain agenda when going into another cultural eJ{perience. Professor Smith said that at times trying to accomplish something gets into the way of what really is going on. He exemplified this with a story of an experience of his in Thailand ~ing Thai saying as adviee .for a cross cultural eiq)erience: \Go anyWhere, have fun.\ Associate Professor Bill Thomas, diredo1· of the terms abroad progr<~rns, spoke about cultural 'non,sh<Jck.' He feels one usually encounters a certain culture first through movies and color photos, so when one arrives in tlris culture, things look like thtlY are supposed to look. This gives the feeling that one is not re<~lly in a different culture, so one does not try to adapt or understand. He says that the key words to a cross cultural eq>erience are \hearing and seeing.'' One should start to learn how to - see and hear bef-ore going· into another culture. Also, one should talk t<l others who have already experienced a different culture and ask what was dif- ferent for thern. Talk to foreign students an<! find out thier reactions to· Americans and American culture. This will give one a11 id.ea of what to expect in a!lother culture. The cross cultural experience \will hurt at times, but eventually in a pleasant w<~y ,'' Helene Smith, who works at the International Center of the Capital District, concluded the panel. She went through the stages that Q!!Cur When one is in another cultll[·e for an extended period of time. The first stage is the prelimi11ary stage when one has many doubts and questions. _She suggests not to try to an~ swer these questions, but to take a \leap of faith., and go on with the experie!lce. The next stage is the ob- . servation stage where one does not penetra:te the culture or evoke a response. One should then increase participation in the culture and try to interact. This is a dangerous stage: this is When one sees major dif- ferences between the cultures and has a tendency to judge the culture i,rJ: ignorance. One should try to avoid judging before ()ne inderstands the culture. One mllSt com- municate; then life will become easier. The ne:xt problem is culture shock, which ca!l lead to depression and sadness. This becomes a time of great challenge. 'Withdrawal from the culture is ·one solution, but then you must ask what will happen if one goes beyond culture shock to aceultlll'ation. allowing oneself to feel comfortable in the culture. The final stage is going home again to one's own culture. It is difficult to readjust when returning, for one will find that people will not be fully able to understand your experience, or they will 11ot show true interest. However, ''the experience is yours.\ At this point you may be a very ·different person, for you went thTough the whole cross cultural experience. \Don't stagnate along the road.;\ accept and become a periencmg. She concluded, \prepare yourself for life on a small planet.\ KEEP THE CARNEGIE NAME t l 1 . j ' I j .. . , ., i

I 1 ,, ., ' f ,, :· ,/ ., ·., 'I I I, .j ( ~: ,, CONCORDIENSIS; February 18, 1988 P'age 9 - -~~--- ' ' --.-- ' ~---- ,.,...J-- ---~------- .,... ____ -·----;:- • INTERNATIO·NAL FEATURES The Cross~Cultural Experience ' ·oh! You Speak German ByARTSPALDING The first thing an American learns when he travels to Germany as a student;ishow to respond to the question, \Oh! You speak German?\ Although one may speak German quite well, one never says so. Most Austrians or West Germans our age have had at least eight years of English in ·school. This means that .for most of us we .speak a little of their language. To say that YoU. speak well to a European implies the same meaning as if you had said~ \I speak fluently\ to an American. There are ·several changes I noticed when I stayed in Ger~ many. The first was the pain in my legs. I found the designated meeting place at about 7 p.m. after around eight hours on a plane and another 'four split between two trains only to discover that everyone else was hungry. So, we walked and walked and after two trips around the stattmitte, we settled on an Italian restaurant. I later considered this a short walk compared to the hours that I would spend finding places to buy groceries. One place for meats; breads, cheeses, wines, fruits, and one for cereals and vegetables. There are large grocery stores (in the bottom of kaufhauses), but many people still . do ·their shopping at in- dividual retailers. I also started sampling every beer I could .get .my hands on in Germany {the walking works it off). This part of German culture cannot be overlooked -they drink with all major meals and students often gather over a couple of beers (with social drinking not always excessive as it is here). Almost every little dorf has its very own unique pilsner. Many are truly great beers. Anotherpart of my own experience was the culinary culture and white wines from the Rhine valley. I had never been off the North American continent and ·wanted to try everything. 1 attended cooking classes, bought books, · and traveled every .single weekend. Two of the mDre in~ teresting .trips were to· other German speaking cultures (Austria, and the German part of Switzerland). 1 had a won~ derful time tasting the great food and me.eting friendly people. There were Germans in our dorm. One of whom I got to know. I realized thro11gh speaking with her, that there is an intense family bond wllich is much strong.er tha11 the American counterpart. (There are differences in religious beliefs in their piousness.) They also enjoy sports, bUt most are played at city clubs and rec centers, not school teams. Without a doubt, one of the most enjoyable parts ilf my European trip was the train travel. Each trip I met in- teresting people who weFe very willing to speak to me even though I fumbled through their language. They were in~ formative about their cUltures and proud to share them with me. I found from one Swiiss man that Switzerland near the Rhine makes some great wines, but not in quantity. The Swiss drink them all, leaving none to export. I traded jokes on the way to England. A woman told me about the cathedrals throughout southern and ~Q.inelalld · Ger~. many on. the way to Mllllchen; since her brother. a11d father were both Lutheran ministers, she knew quite a bit. I also learned about the dlfferent education systems in the dif~ ferent countries on board the train. On the way to East Germany, older people (the majority allowed to travel from tbe East) told about how they felt. This was one of the most intriguing groups to listen to si1tce they had lived 'Wider the Third Reicb, under socialism imposed by the U.S.S.R., and also, been able to see the changes in West Germany from the Marshall plan. There are still deep emotions about the splitting of Germany, and the pain can be felt as they describe the changes. They are acutely aware of their common bond and see the separation as only physical. Tbe people are stiU the same-- just living in dif~ ferent governments. The East presented an entirely different way of life. One that is con~ trolled· and restricted where the party speak£ for the people, and the people watch what they say. 'f!Ie culture was still there, especially,. as we toured Dresden and heard the magnificent boys' choir there. Our guide stayed near us at all times, and we were able to feel some of wbat the people live with every day. As I tried to talk with others in the cities, She would fall back with us or hurry me along. At a 'student dinner' . professors who were party members joined us, and I with two of the students left to speak in the lavatory. I still correspond with one of the students today. To give you an idea of life behind the Iron Curtain~ he said that to say he did not like Soviet troops in East Germany would get him ex- pelled from school within two weeks. . Then, I was back in the States and forgetting German the minute I arrived. It took me a while to start thinking in American terms again and not to be impatient with our travel schedules after the German punctuality. I also have a deep desire to return; there is still much to see there, and I want to keep up U1Y German which is extremely clifficult to do in the United States. I I ,, ' A Parisian in Schenectady By NICOLASBOCH Leaving Paris to study in Schenectady is not something one decides on a Sunday morning. Nor is it something one is forced to do since the perspective of landing, in the middle of nowhere, would scare to death one's ancestors quietly resting in their graves. So, it has to be a deliberate choice; choice of a crazy person, some might say. But as any ad- venture calls for some sacrifices, so does the leaving of Paris for Schenectady. In any case, it certainly is a ehallenge, tbe tough · challenge of a very rross-cultural experience. Spending four years of one~s . life in a foreign C()untry will change you from A tluough Z. It forces you to think about yourself more than most . ex~ periences. It needs a lot of courage and tolerance to break the .borders .of your own world. Being in a foreign country reqUires from you that you watch and listen m<lre than you speak at least until yoa adjust to the new cult11re. And it is really a lot of fun to watcll all these weird people around you. Trust me, landing on a keg of beer in a fraternity house makes you quiet and very drunk. In any case, I certainly did not impose my rules. We did not start drinking champagne mr sing \La Marseillaise\ ; we stayed with the beer and . played Mexican. One year spent at Union College would have been equivalent to .five years spent at home, in terms of un- derstanding of the world and of myself~ I realized that as I came back to France when everything appeared so dif- ferently. I gave everything a second look, even the Eiffel Tower. I noticed that my friends also gave me a second lDok. So, something must have happened in the meantime. A year spent in a foreign country gives you so mueh more than a year at home. It would be sad to waste such an op- portu:nity since it is still offered to you. There is a whole world o11t tllere, behind the bilge and imposing walls of the American cllstoms. So go for it! Break the wall! ISU TABLE Every Friday 12:30- 1:30, Dutch Hollow Pub Active Members Discuss Latest Issues Call Nicolas x6826 or Una x4439 Chivalry .Still Exis_ts Only in Great Britain INTERNATIONAL FILM SERIES ' Pier Paolo Passolini, THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO ST. . MATTHEW (1964) . . . Shot in the impoverishe~ villages of so~t.~ern Italy and cast entirely with nonprofess1onals1 Passohn1 s unorth()dox interpretation of Matthew's Gospel is on~ of the. most rewarding of all the films made about Chnst . Tht.s controversial film portrays an activist Christ who ts profoundly spiritual but full of violent contradictions By CHRISTINE HONG and STEPHANIE JARYNA \ ... I went. to London and I, I booked myself in at the Y .•• W.C.A. I said: 'I Uke it here - can I stay?\' \ And we did stay for three inc-redible months. Not actually IN London, (or at thE; YWCA), but you get the picture ... Bath: The City Bath, situated in the south- west of England, has a long history that starts as early as the establishment of the Roman E!llpire m the British Isles. The Romans primarily built the city as a home away from home for the Roman troops since there were nattll\al hot Springs in that valley. The city, which is of- ficially referred to as Bath Spa, reveals its original (and still existent) attribute. During the Victorian Period of English history, the city experienced a revival becoming one ofthemore desirable places to vacation. Today, this Vic~ torian influence can still be seen juxtaposed with suggestions of its Roman occupation through its notable landmarks and High Victorian architecture. Over• tones of 1be city's glorious past still exist as the city still plays host to the wealthy, the artistic, and the pleasure seeking. Its affluence can be readily seen in the shops' windows on any of the main shopping streets down- town or to~rated hotels and restaurants; however, good value for our Ameti<!an dollars could easily be achieved with a little legwork. The Pubs: Perhaps the best use of a · British pound (their form of currency) is in the pubs that are located on every street. Our favorites were ones which the Bath students frequented. The Boater is probably the most frequented of tilese pubs. Located on Pulteney Bridge, The Boater is a two-floor pub with a patio that ran along the Avon River. Tile Crystal Palace, named for the ar- chitectural precursor of the skyscraper built by English architect W. Paxton, is another pub that draws in tlle university students. This larger pub has two separate pub rooms con~ nected by the main bar and also bad a patio that l()oked out on the city's oldest bllilding, Sally Lunn's pastry shop. The Huntsman is a pub just around the comer from The Crystal Palace, and is perhaps one of the largest in Bath. Particularly fun is the bar area in the basement that is definitely rerndniscent of ~nne frater- nities here at Union. Tlleir pub food was also an excellent value and generally ·pleasing for Someone with a hungry ap- petite. Other pubs that deserve mention are The Grapes, Bloomers ( a little more ex- pensive since located in the theatre district but attracts some well-to-do British if you want to rub elbows), The Hottub (a more 'active' crowd), and Bath University's own student union pub Which is definitely worthwhile to take advantage of- particularly between lec- tures. But, by all means, avoid The Rummer (just ask any student who went abroad with us this past fall to find out why). The Nightclubs: Nightclubs are not as abundant in Bath as .in other major cities, but there is a spectrum to appeal to all tastes. Here are three examples. We particularly appreciated the first nightclub called Moles. This somewhat exclusive (member only) club gives ture meaning to the term 'un· derground'. Moles offered an appealing venue of groups each week Which included un· derground bands like The Corn Dollies, lOPOOO Violins, The Jack Rubles, and Hothouse Flowers in an atmosphere lit by ccan~ dles, packed with people, and Continued on page 10

Page 'tl) CONCORDIENSIS, February 18; 1988 . - INrl\ERNATIONAL FEATURES The Cross-Cultural Experience Term Abroad Conti11 ued f·rom page 9 primed for watching 'the local color'. On ihe other end of· the spectrum is Rumours, a discothequE that gears itself with attl'\acting a younger crowd. Get ready to listen to the English T~·P Forty if you dare to pay the entry fee. Somewhere in the middle is The Island Club. This nightclub, which was originall?\ the city's public bathr()oms, is small, hut suf- ficient for .a group of students. Entry charge is low and the musicenjbyable; moreover, the club is .more conducive for conversing and meeting universitr students. We thought we should also mention The Theater }t()yal since we enjoyed going there so much. It is a promineni theater in :England, both for Lis architectural value as well a:s for its reputation as the 'testing grounds' for producti()lns before they go on to Lond()n. The Wednesday af- ternoon performances are a good deal if you don't have classes (with the two pounds you save, you can buy yourself a glass of dry white wine before the show); otherwise, the evening performances are usually lOVell filled with Bath's elite- it is well known that the Prince amd Princess of Wales like to come to The Theater Royal a:s well as Her Royal Highness' sister, ·Princess Marg~u:et. U~ing Arrangements: ·. · As for our living with several of the professors from the university, we also were introduced to a B.B.C. producer, a laywer from Manchester, several authors and artists, and a Lon- donnmagazine. editor. That night we sensed the affluence and culture that Bath has in- • 10 Bath • • • academics was important. -None of us will forget our class in British trends and the ten- page paper we all wrote in the last few days, and when we say write,: we mean hand write because the University may have had a .great library but it was not equipped with the VAX go out far outweighed the ambition to study btit we all managed to get everything. done and learn a thing or two along the way. Our Shake~peare course included a visit to Stratford, birthplace of William Shakespeare and his family. With an efficient tour guide and lots of information from Professor Murphy, the trip was both enjoyable and informative. We visited the homes of Mary Arden, The Halls, William Shakespeare and Anne Hathaway and also visited Trinity Churcb where William Shakespeare is buried, Unfortunately time did not permit us to view a .play per· formed by the original Shakespeare com.pany, but we did see, at the Theater Royal in Bath, a performance of Hen~y IV, Part I which reinforced the reading of the play which we did earlier in the term. Our British Trends class gave us a taste of the political, economic, welfare and prison systems in the United Kingdom as well as giving us a 'run down' of the operation of the National Health Service (no pun in- tended). There was quite a bit <lf outside reading for this class, but the fact that we were lec- tured to by six: different University professors kept it interesting. ~ For our third course, our fi: elected class, we got brave and . ~ decided ~o; take a co:rnparativ~ w econom1cs class. The class z requires two handwritten ~ o. papers and an oral presentati<ln ~ and as typical of Bath University, coursed a sab- fii stantial amount of outside @ reading. We managed to make ::J: it through this class (our 0. professor was quite un· der$tanding) and though we faced._ corn@laints about tl}e American Capitalist system the seminars. and discussions proved to be quite informative. Overall the academics were not the highlight of the trip; (honestly in a foreign country do you want to spend all of your time studying'?) and term abroad to Bath was certainly not a G.P.A. booster but there were tolerable. Probably the downfall of the trip was having to ride the Badger Line buses up to the University and around town. We were in a great location, the bus stop was right outside our house. The only problem was that the bus never stopped to pick us up. Well, we cannot really say never ~ just on those Thursday mornings when we had a 9:00 a.m. class and always seemed to arrive a bit late. After four weeks we realized that 9:00 a.m. was the time that everyone in the city of Bath needed to get up Bathwick Hill and the buses were just too crowded to fit in two more passengers. We must also criticize the buses when at 5:00 p.m. we were anxious to get back down the hill for dinner and this also was a prominent· bus riding time, so needless to say we had to wait quite a While to get on the bus.'· Rob· Lichten <;laim$ if it was· ·a Badger Line bu~ driver (his life ambition) he could have made the rWls in much better time. \Bath continues next week; Environs, Group Efforts ~mel :Exclusions and London: A Quick Run Down. arrangements in Bath, we were assigne!lto a Bed and Breakfast that was located at the foot of BatbwiC'k Hill. We were able to walk out.of our door and be up at the Uni-versity in about three minute:s. Muriel, our host mother was exceptional comparted to some of the other hosts that our fellow students were w:ith. She always had us engaged in,, interesting con- versations over amazing din- ners (like pheasant, multitudes of pasta dishes, coco-van, etc.) that sine would invite us to reglllarly. The fact that we stayed in a small B&B (as the Britisll refer to them) made for lively c.onversations in the mornin.gs as well. Over a true English breakfast of eggs, ham and sausage, muesli, fruits, toast md cakes, and lots of good Englislntea, we woke up to meet guests that were from Ireland, Scotland, Gennany, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand- not tiD mention those from aroun<l England, as wen as the United. States. This photo was taken at Glastonbury Abbey, the heart of Arthurian legend. The ruins were fascinating to roam through. We _could also see Tor from the grounds, which according to some legends is the gateway to the underworld. spired over the centuries. Another highlight was af- ternoon tea (or high tea) which we usually shared with Muriel once we · returned from our lectures. This was a time of relaxation. Also extremely relaxing was_ watching the television. Although we are slightly embarrassed to admit it, we watched more television there than we ever do here. The purpose we mention this is because we did learn a lot from the TV, particularly the humorous commercials. T.V. addicts beware though; there are only four stations in England, two of which are rarely on the air ... system. Pick up your Preregistration packets tomorrow Honestly, the academics were .a bit strenuous and we must admit the desire to travel and at Whitaker House. An Off Broadway Show Higlllights of our stay _at Mllrie:l's B&B were the Christmas Political Party bash that she had just before we left for home. We not only mingled The Academics: We feel a bit must be said about the work load, since La Federation Franco Americaine du New York is sponsoring a CONCERT OF NORTH AMERICAN FRENCH SONGS wit] Josee Vachon; Singer-Guitarist from Massachusetts at the Cdonie Town Library on Sunday, February 28 at 2:00pm . Admission is Free C()ntact Ronald Lagassee, Schenectady County Public Library (518) 382-3543 or Prof. Eloise Briere (518) 442-4100. MONDAY French Table, 12:3o· WEQNESDAY Spanish Table, 12:30 MONDAY Japanese Table, 12:~0 THURSDAY German Table, 12:00 ByMATrEO COVERI ABBONDIO As soon as I got to Union, it did n6t ta}te me long to decide that I was in love with this school and with this country; For the whole three months of my first term, I felt great. Everyone I would meet- would give me much attention that by the end of the term I convinced myself that I was the first star in a slightly off Broadway show. Unfortunately winter came and by then everyone seemed to have already seen my show. Very few people were now willing to spend time with me. I guess it did not take them long to satisfy their curiosity about what a European is like. TUESDAY Italian Table, 1.2:00 Language tables will meet in the Pub at the College Center, and all members of the college communit are welcome to attend. But how well enough can you get to know someone in less than three months? Very soon I became cynical and negative about my ex- perience, probably because I was putting too much emphasis on how lonely I was feeling. But then the snow, the ice, ancl the gloomy weather gradually disappeared, allowing spring to come along. Spring break was a very nice occasion for my system to release all my anger while skiing .in Colorado. When I came back the snow was -gone, flowers were in bloom, and every one seem~d to be high. Spring term went by very fast. Actually, it went by so fast that I did not realize whether I was bappy or deeply depressed. It was n<lt until summer term in July that I was definitely adjusted. I stayed here for sununer school until the end of July and by staying. alone I was able to get used to the American lifestyle. This meant not eating breakfast, telling people I was fine when I was not, and learning how toshop at Price Chopper. I even learned what being harrassed by the local police is like. That summer I decided that I would definitely enjoy ·my years to come at Onion. I understood that I could cope with the positive, as well as the negative aspects, in America jllSt off Broadway. Feb.22 College Center FRE:NCH CLUB Room406 8 P.M. ·Presents Film Je Vous Aime !

/ .. r ,. - -, -~ - • '{ ' • • , , • ' .. , CONCORDIENSIS; February 18,. 1988 P~ge 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES The Cross-Cultural Experience, Faces of Jap,an China ·By JEANNE DALEY Japan. Th~ JapEmese people call it Nihon. Either way it is just a name for ao ·experience which cannot be conveyed in any word. In saying Japan the mind is met with myths, questions and expectations; all intangible, a step outside of our comfortable reality. Then, suddenly, it was reality. For a couple .of hundred college students from several different countries reality started !n August 1987 at Kansai Gaidai University in Japan. My first glitnpse of Japan was in Osaka. International Airport. I had left my family and-friends on a Sunday afternoon and was greeted. in Osaka with a nearly Tuesday and a wall of faces which distinguished themselves in lilY mind by being purely and consistently Japanese face. In those first few minutes they all looked the same. There was an overwhelming similarity between their faces, their ex- pressions, and their clothing. Months later I triE:d to recap- ture that 'sameness' in a photograph to bring home with me. I was unable to find it. My familiarity had made each Japanese so individllal that they no longer looked \Japanese.'' The looked like people, people who, incidentally, ' see all Americans, as well as Europeans as looking alike. These same people can easily distinguish between Korean and Chinese and Vietnamese people, something which few Americans are able to do. The first impact of Japan upon myself was to change the way I see. I had only been in Japan for four days when I was given ~o my family. Given is the most appropriate word, although lo()king back I feel that they were .given to me. That first day with my family was probably the most difficult of the entire four months~ I knew .how to· say \What time is it?\ and \This is a bo()k.'' My fa:rilily spoke no English. What do you say to two complete strangers who ~re taking you int(J their home but cannot communicate with you in your own language? I learned not to be afraid to make mistakes. I ·spoke on a second grade level but I was for the most part understood. Sometimes .they would just laugh at me, I spent a few weeks being laughed at for asking for what I th()ught was the · Japanese equivalent of hot water.llearned much later that the Japanese have a special word for cold , water and a completelydlfferent and just as special word for hot water. In literally translating ''hot water\ I was asking for hot cold :water. Is it any wonder they laughed? Aside from learning Japanese and teaching them .a bit of English (by the time I left they could say \I oo like burnt toast\ and \See you in the morning.\ I also learned many other languages. I learned to speak in a language of gestures and expressions and pictmes and feeling. Before I could ever speak a word of J apMese to my family I had ceased to be a guest in their borne, I was a part of the family .. I learned to appreciate communication and began to wonder why in America, where everyonespeaksmylanguageit was so difficult to be close, to have a conversation or to be Understood There were tfrnes when I thought, \What am I doing here?\ Those doubts were answered by two little girls in Hiroshima who, giving no second tho~ghtl! to where we INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLU~ ·PRESENTS Professor Kenneth E. Bauzon to speak on the Philippines I 1986 ''PEOPLE POWER REVOLUTION'' Includes-videotape on the events surrounding the overthrow of Ferdinand Marcoso . Monday, Feb. 22 7:30 p.m. College Genter · For Further Information, Co.ntact Andrew · Marein or Professor Clinton I .s. 'll. .. cortfia{{g invites you to a· Mardi t;;ras Party 'fri., 'feb. 19 8:30pm-2:00am ola CliapeC PktUe Wear Jtl CostultU fJlnd · Comt !Dancin9 Witli Us One of the most intense were or Who l was, simply images I have collected in my 21 wanted to talk to me. It seemed years is the scene outside the that everywhere we went the Shangbai Airport in China. The people were curious. They only thing that I could think of wanted to talk to us and have whas that I bad, walked -into a their pictures taken With us. World War H film. The streets, They were so excited to have us dimly lit, had a grainy quality, learn about their language and · much like an old black and country and would listen white movie; there were groups patiently as we struggled to of men, hanging _out, talking piece tQgether one sentence. (even though it was the middle I think in all, it wasn!t about of the night) and the noises were any one coWltry. It was about strange, and somehow muffled. the way people think and feel. Looking back, I'm not sure how Not just people from other much of this image was real, countries, but people who, · and how much of it w;:~s my under other circumstances, groggy, jetlagged,perception at would. never meet, never talk, the time. Either way, the probably never become friends. feeling evoked was the same. People from so many different I have spent time in Europe; backgrounds, different worlds, it's barely comparable. After together, sharing an experience one week in Paris, French which would change the way people approached me and they feel about themselves and asked for directions. in China every other experience they'd · · this is not possible. From the had. We · left shortly before moment we landed in China, we Christmas and a group of us were outsiders. Physically, we went to the home of our were different and were professor. We lit candles on the therefore.obviouslyout of place. .:!apanese Christmas Cake and · Because the Chinese people Sang 'Silent Night.' First, in haven't been . exposed to English, then our professor foreigners that much, if at all, sang it in Japanese and finally, they perceive nationality as a in otherwise complete silence, black or white issue: Chinese or two Danish students sang it in not. Never· in China could we their language. We spent so · have sat on a bus and just much time looking for dif- \blended in,\ or walked down a ferences. In all those voices quiet street and not caused a there was a coming together of neighborhood gathering. The people. novelty of always being the They prepared us for a center of attention wore off fast, culture shock when we left for and it led to a great deal of Japan. The true culture shock is frustration, but, for the most .found when you return to . part, we d~lt with it. America. We expected Japan to The attention we received ·be different. We came home because we were foreigners was changed. We no longer think the often much appreciated, espec;ially when we were invited into family homes. The Chinese people are extremely war- mhearted. Several times, we just met people on tile street, and they invited us int() their homes, to share their lunch, their tea, their candy, and their liquor. Piercing the initial barrier was sometimes a problem, bat curiosity\ often got the-best of the Chinese people around us, and the questions would start r()lling in. Although it took awhile to differentiate those who wanted a real friendship from those who just wanted an English lesson, once we foWldthe former, the results were worth the wait. It is hard to wrap up my three months in China; I want to evoke in every reader the feelings I had there, and that's impossible. To be honest, I'm not sure why I went: interest and an inex:plicable attraction, I guess. I wasn't sure what to expect. I never W()uld have predicted the myriad of emotions that were in store for me: frustration to the point of anger, or tears (in train stations, f<1r example) , hap- piness to the point of being on a real high (forgetting language barriers, and rowing in Nan- jipg). I grew up a lot in those three months. I was forced to evaluate, and sometimes justify, my5elf as an ..American, and my presence in Chlna. Any term abroad will reshape a student's perspective, in varying degrees. Cllina will take a student's outlook, turn it upside down and shake it. Hard. same. We are more aware of r---------------.___-------,1 what we see. It is impossible to · just fit back in where you were before· you left. I did find a similar experience to that \sameness\ I experienced in Japan. Open your Freshman Record to any page. IF YOU HAVE ANY ARTICLES OR COMMENTS PERTAINING TO THE THEME OF THE CROSS CULTURAL EXPERIENCE, PLEASE CALL: -Gary x6825 Bo~ 387 -Aime x6823 Coming to America ByLINA NGAMTRAKULPANIT I was ten years old when I experienced my first cul- tural shock. I remember the thrill, the excitement I felt- when the wheel of the plane touched the runway. \I am actually in America I\ I said to myself. I dreamed of the day I would visit the Statue of liberty, the Twin Towers and look around the world famous shopping area Fifth Avenue. It aml.lZed. me Jiow: the people seemed to be going toward the same direction as I. Yet., if I didn't step out of th~ir way quickly, I could be sure that I, would end up in some place other than school. My sister and I went to a boarding school. It was a trying year for both of us. America is nothing similar to what we had imagined it would be. The language, the food, the people, even the school system was a stranger to us. We were not used to the way the people Uved and the way they eXpressed themselves. I was used to being with a quiet, shy and reserved group of friendS, unlike the forward, seemingly extroverted feHow classmates. I was not used to the school system and could ·not wulerstand wby t)le stu.dents <Ud not mow respeet toward their teachers the same way they do in Thailand. In Thailand the student acknowledges the teacher by standing up when he or she enters · and by making a respectful bow and saying thank you when the teach~r leaves. 1 was not certain of how to approach my classmates; I could barely speak the language. I missed my friends, I missed home. The fun, the excitement, the sense of ad- . venture were gone. I ahnost regrettedJ~9miJ:Ig to study in the United States. The following few months were better. 1 was able to cotnmWiicate a little better. One by ·one I began to make more friends. However, there were a lot of things I did not understand; ·such as the American way of dating and what was tile expected behavior froma girlfriend or a ooyfriend. 'I h~d a more difficult time trying to maintain friendships since my perspective in such a situation is different due to the differences in culture. [t was a real challenge for a ten year old girl and ber el~ven year old 'sister. Now that I look batk, I am grateful I did not give up and g(l home. The longer I stay, the more I learn abzyut the American people arid their culture. I have seen the negative aspects as well as the positive aspects of this Wlique culture. In doing tllis I have been able to incorj)(lrate the positiv.e aspects of the American culture into my own Thai heritage. The Kallah is here. The what? The Kallah. It's an exciting retreat for Jewish students from Union College, S.U.N.Y.A., R.P.F ., Russel· Sage, and others at Silver Bay on Lake George. Sponsored by the J.S.U. Com.e join us. We're going places.

' \ \' ' ·Page 12 CONC~ORDIENSIS, February 18, 1988 OlD1lCllrbitnsis --------l'nunJtJ tJt t in:011 COli~~ ltll'!-..--...---- Revised So,cial And Alcohol Policy Needed Just what are the problems with our social life., and now how do they compare with those facing other colleges? Bemis Not Guilty of Negligence To the Editor: It is regrettable . that this incident may have tarnished As sophomore class Keith's reputati<m. Keith is president, I would like to serving in hi$ second year as respond to Kevin Decker's class representative and is-one LETTERS Film Stays As _ Schedul~d; Future Uncertain . . To the Editor: \ accusations last week that of the most dedicated members ' sophomore representative of the Forum. In addition to his Taking int4J ronsider.ation the The Inter-Fraternity Council has presented a social policy proposal this week that addresses what they see as the problems with the U:nion social life. By looking at their ideas, and how other colleges handle their problems, w~ can get a better idea of what to do here. Keith Bemis was negligent in normal duties, he has also dOne . -results of the campus PQll and . his duty. Mr. Decker stated that extensive work in his efforts to the issues disc:ussed in the open • he had asked Keith to bring up-a retorethe Nott Memorial, I only • · forum, we bavll decided to leave Hamilton, a school much like Union, has also had its administration crack down on its fraternities. Their houses are not supposed to serve anyone under 21; as with Union, after incidents of injury or irresponsible drinking, the houses responsible were disciplined. The most common punishment is social probation for a term, although at least one house was closed·down. · concern ~of his at a Student hope that Mr. Decker reads this ·: the pornographic film on the . · Forum meeting. Mr. Decker letter and realizes how hard · winter term. schedule. We ' went on to say that Keith never Keith and the rest of the Student • recognize and agre~ with the : brought up the subject although Forum works for this college.. ! concerns eK.pressed by mem- • ; Keith later claimed to have · bers of the college commutlity. · done so. Sincerely, However,. we felt that tllese At this time, with a new dean of students and new college president coming in, Hamilton is conducting a major and public rev.ision of its policy toward alcohol in general. Across the river at RPI, most of the fraternities are off campus. The college administration, for the most part, has a hands-off policy toward the houses, leaving the discipline to the Troy Police Department, and to the fraternities themselves. Yes, that's right. RPI's Interfraternity Council handles much of the policing of its own members, and it had handed down punishments including social probation in the past. Students are accustomed to the system and do not find it unusual. The houses themselves take responsibility for intoxicated students and often arrange an escort home. Our Inter-Fraternity Council's proposal claims that the College has placed the social burden on its fraternities and should alleviate the \unacceptable\ conditions. We believe that the College should take certain actions, but that the fraternities themselves could do much to improve the situation. 1. The College should encourage the use of an alternative drinking establishment: the Skellar. Seniors remember that the Skellar can be an exciting place, and more assistance from the administration would help return it to that· state. The College could:. increase the Skellats budget, to improve the selection of wine and beer and the variety of appetizers; place a pool table in the Skellar; help arrange and better publicize promotions; expand the schedule to selected weeknights. 2. The fraternities could help establish the \alternative\ they desire by sponsoring nights there, for example: Phi Delta Theta night at the Skellar, and the house would close down its normal weekend activity. Setting such a trend is crucial. 3. A charge in door policy would be necessary. Any student would be allowed to enter, but only those over 21 would get a handstamp that would allow them to buy single drinks. Paid non-student employees (as are now used) could work as bartenders and bouncers. 4. Fraternity members could work in the Skellar to make sure certain rules were being followed. Several actions are needed in terms of house parties as well: 1. The College should encourage ·several houses to sponsor parties nightly, to reduce crowding at any one house. A SQrt of central, advance scheduling would facilitate this. 2. The College should provide hired, non~student employees to enforce the use of invitations at the door, which the iFC says are difficult to control. 3. Houses should provide a member or members to insure that intoxicated guests arrive home safely, by foot or by Security escort. Such responsible actions would prevent many incidents. 4. The College and the IFC'should jointly set out .a specific policy of what rules houses should follow, from invitations, to how to handle serving drinks, and establish a clear policy for diseipHning violations. 5. Houses complying with points 3. and 4. above would qualify for some modest College fmancial assistance for non-alcoholic aspects of parties, i.e. food, other drinks, entertainment. Food could be pr~vided by Food SerVice at a low cost. The IFC is right; the social burderi is on the backs of the ~ fraternities at Union, and the College should provide some assistance. But it will be difficult to achieve the goal of a more balanced social lite and reduced discipline c\:lSes. We have to start a1rnost from scratcru and have thought and co-operation on the part of both the administration and the students; there are no cheap and easy answers. Resolution? Insatiable ll, the controversial pornographic film, will be shown on Wednesday February 24 as planned. The Film Committee made this decision after considering the arguments presented by students m.l the \Open Forum\ discussion an after weighing the results of the poll taken last week. Of the 21% of t.he student body that participated irJ this poll, roughly 300 were in favor of showing the film and 160 were against it. It is encouraging that the administration did rtot censor the film 31ldr students were allowed to reach this decision. The administration clearly does not approve of the showing of this film; however, they are \No-t now taking any action to prohibit the showing of the film\ (see lette::r page 13). We would hope that it would never come to the point where the administration would blatantly censor such a filin. Those who argued that the film should be shown as it was part 01f an educational process should follow this interest in education and attend the documentary film \Not a Love- Story: A Fibn Al>olllt Pornography.\ This film will be showa at 7:00, on the Tuesday before Insatiable II, in SS016. Following this documentary, Profess()r DeBono of Psychology will lead a discussion on the.topic. Students Against Pornography should continue th~ir educational programs. In the upcoming years when the Fihn Committee plans its schedule they should keep the example ofthis year's debate in mind. Unforttmately, Mr. Decker's . Petet R. Costa reasons were not compelling sources were mistaken; the Sophomore Class President enough to waJrant removal ()f topic was indeed discussed. : the scheduled film. But the --~-------------------~------ •. concerns raised about this film V .. ote ·. Yo·ur. F· . utur·e D. . ep· en. ·ds ·0· ·n·. It\ should not be taken lightly. We strongly recommend that neKt To the Editor: These are the facts. -Only one out of every five people between tbe ages of 18 and 21 are registered to vote. That means only 12 million out of 48 million young people .are takjng ad- vantage of the very opportunity that makes America so special. We have the undeniable right to vote for those who govem us. We have the right to have a voice in our government. The youth are the energy, hope and future of this country. Here at Union College, we are in our own little world. But the reason we are in our little world is to prepare us for \the real world''. We are spending someone's hard earned money to insure us a place in life after Union. · But our future depends on more than just education, · there must be -a job market available for us upon graduation .. This year's presidential election is perhaps the most important one we between the ·ages of 18 and 21 will see. It will be the newly elected ad- ministration that will be setting the economic, social, moral and foreign policies that will greatly _effect each and every one of us in our search for a niche in the empJ~yment world. I · am All Letters to the Editor must be- typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide 1h e ir addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld .. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous. or do not conform to . standard of good taste. Le-tters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily re.flect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis KEEP THE CARNEGIE .NAME. , . speaking here of taKes, liealth services, health .insurance, the cost of living, interest on our beloved student loans and much, much more. No matter how corny, dramatic or scary it is, the fact remains that we are the future of our coWltry. This election year could greatly effect how we as members of the working .force can further develop ourselves and our country. We must take advantage of our opportunity to have a say in our future. Here at Union we may feel untouched by politics. But we are not. Our tuition, the availibility of scholarships and student loans, the very .quality of our education are directly effected by the people elected to · public office. We must vote. Every vote· matters. The more youths who vote, that is to say the more influence the youth choose to exert in the outcome of the elections, the more at- tention the politicians will pay to our interests. Every single vote matters. Every vote is an expression of opinion that is heard nationally. · year's Film Corru.nittee not automatically schedule a pornographic fUm. It should be discussed and decided whether or not the fibn be shown prior to its scheduling. We thank everyone for their participation in the open forUm, · especially Anne Carl, Stephanie . Hirnak, 'l'im Matthews and Devin Wenig. Respectfully submitted, Kelley Park Peter Leventhal Jay McCarthy Barbara Stastny Peter Lambert The Executive Board of the li'ihn Committee You can only be heard wheiL you vote. In order to vote, you must first register. Even thougbmost of us are not near our h:omes, there are conv~nient, Simple and quick ways to register and vote. Look for more inforiilation in the College Center this week .or call346-8505. Registering Is a simple pr()cess. Please do- your future depends on it. Jane Hackett ;89 - ] _ St1 Ur es . St pr fil its -hs ch th th th fil m m pE te fil m cc q1 rE Cl fu s~ 01 w rr a1 \\ st II h ·\Ill ll o: s 11 \I ~ 0 tl t1 ( t r c r ( i f I , I I

Page 12 CONCORDJENSIS, Fe!Jruary 18, 1988 <!tDnrorbirnsis --------..J'aun4.t-rl at {:mon ro11~~ 18;'7------- Revised Social And Alcohol Policy Needed Just what are the problems with our social life, and now how do they compare with those facing other colleges? The Inter-Fraternity Council has presented a social policy proposal this week that addFesses what they see as the problems with the Union social life. By looking at their ideas, and how other colleges handle their problems, we can get a better idea of what to do here. Hamilton, a school much like Union, has also had its administration crack down on its fraternities. Their houses are not supposed to serve anyone under 21; as with Union, after incidents of injury or irresponsible drinking, the houses responsible were disciplined. The most common punishment is social probation for a term, although at least one house was closed down. At this time, with a new dean of students and new college president coming in, Hamilton is conducting a major and public revision of its policy toward alcohol in general. Across the river at RPI, most of the fraternities are off campus. The college administration, for the most part, has a hands-off policy toward the houses, leaving the discipline to the Troy Police Department, and t() the fraternities themselves. Yes, that's right. RPI's Intcrfralemi ty Council handles much of the policing of its own members, and it had handed down punishments including social probation in the past. Students are accustomed to the system and do not find it unusual. The houses themselves takt! responsibility for intoxicated ~;tudents and often arrange an escort home. Our Inter-Fraternity Council's proposal claims that the College has placed the social burden on its fraternities and should alleviate the \unacceptable\ conditions. We believe that the College should take certain actions, but that the fraternities themselves could do much to improve the situation. 1. The College should encourage the use of an alternative drinking establishment: the Skellar. Seniors remember that the Skellar can be an exciting place, and more assistance from the administration would help return it to that state. The College could: increase the Skellar's budget, to improve the selection of wine and beer and the variety of appetizers; place a pool table in the Skellar; help arrange and better publicize promotions; expand the schedule to selected weeknights. 2. The fraternities could help establish the \alternative\ they desire by sponsoring nights there, for example: Phi Delta Theta night at the Skellar, and Lhe house would dose down its normal weekend activity. Setting such a trend is crucial. 3. A charge in door policy would be necessary. Any student would be allowed to enter, but only those over 21 would get a handstamp that would allow them to buy single drinks. Paid non-student employees (as are now used) c()uld work as bartenders and bouncers. 4. Fraternity members could work in the Skellar to make sure certain rules were being followed. Several actions are needed in terms of house parties as well: 1. The College should encourage several houses to sponsor parties nightly, to reduce crowding at any one house. A sort of central, advance scheduling would facilitate this. 2. The College should p!()vide hired, non-student employees to enforce the use of invitations at the door, which the IFC says are difficult to control. 3. Houses should provide a member or members to insure that intoxicated guests arrive home safely, by foot or by Security escort. Such responsible actions would prevent many incidents. 4. The College and the IFC should jointly set out a specific policy of what rules houses should follow, from invitations, to how to handle serving drinks, and establish a clear policy for disGiplining violations. 5. Houses complying with p()ints 3. and 4. above would qualify for some modest College fmancia.l assistance for non-alcoholic aspects of parties, i.e. food, other drinks, entertainment. Food could be provided by Food Service at a low cost. The IFC is right; the S()cial burden is on the backs of the fraternities at Union, and the College should provide some assistance. But it will be difficult to achieve the goal of a more balanced social life and reduced discipline c\JSes. We have to start almost from scratch and have thought and co-operation on the part of both the adminisuation and the students; there are no cheap and easy answers. Resolution? Insatiable II, the controversial pornographic film, will be shown on Wednesday February 24 as planned. The Film Committee made this decision after considering the arguments presented by students at the \Open Forum\ discussion an after weighing the results of the poll taken last week. Of the 21% of the student body that participated in this poll, roughly 300 were in favor of showing the film and 160 were against it. It is encouraging that the administration did not censor the film and students were allowed to reach this decision. The administration clearly does not approve of the showing of this film; however, they are \Not now taking any action to prohibit the showing of the film\ (see letter page 13). We would hope that it would never come to the point where the administration would blatantly censor such a film. Those who argued that the film should be shown as it was part of an educational process should follow this interest in education and attend the documentary film \Not a Love Story: A Film About Pornography.\ This film will be shown at 7:00, on the Tuesday before Insatiable II, in SS016. Following this documentary, Professor DeBono of Psychology will lead a discussion on the topic. Students Against Pornography should continue their educational programs. In the upcoming years when the Film Committee plans its schedule they should keep the example of this year's debate in mind. LETTERS Bemis Not Guilty of Negligence Film Stays As Scheduled; Future Uncertain To the Editor: As sophomare class president, I would like to respond to Kevin Decker's accusathms last week that sophomore representative Keith Bemis was negligent in his duty. Mr. Decker stated that he had asked Keith to bring ap a concern of his at a Student Forum meeting. Mr. Decker went on to say that Keith never brought up the subject although Keith later claimed to have done so. Unfortunately, Mr. Decker's sources were mistaken; the topic was indeed discussed. It is regrettable that this incident may have tarnished Keith's reputation. Keith is serving in his second year as class representative and is one of the most declicated members of the Forum. In addition to his normal duties, he has also done extensive work in his efforts to retore the Nott Memorial. I only hope that Mr. Decker reads this letter and Fealizes how hard Keith and the rest of the Student Forum works for this college. Sincerely, Peter R. Costa Sophomore Class President To the Editor: Vote: Your Future Depends On It Taking into consideration the results of the campus poli and the issues discussed in the open forum, we have decided to leave the pornographic film on the winter term schedule. We recognize and agre~ with the concerns expressed by mem- bers of the college community. However, we felt that these reasons were not compelling enough to warrant removal of the scheduled film. But the concerns raised about this film should not be taken lightly. We strongly recommend that next year's FHm Committee not automaUcally schedule a pornographic film. It should be discussed and decided whether or not the film be shown prior to its scheduling. To the Editor: These are the facts. Only one out of every five people between the ages of 18 and 21 are registered to vote. That means only 12 million out of 48 million young people are taking ad- vantage of the very opportunity that makes America so special. We have the undeniable right to vote for those who govern us. We have the right to have a voice in our government. The youth are the energy, hope and future of this country. Here at Union College, we are in our own little world. But the reason we are in our little Wl>rld is to prepare as for \the real world\. We are spending someone's hard earned money to insure us a place in life after Union. But our future depends on more than just education, there must be a job market available for us upon graduation. This year's presidential election is perhaps the most important one we between the ages of 18 and 21 will see. It will be the newly elected ad- ministration that will be setting the economic, social, moral and foreign policies that will greatly effect each and every one of us in our search for a niche in the employment world. I am All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to . standard of good taste. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis KEEP THE CARNEGIE NAME speaking here of tax:es, health services, health insurance, the cost of living, interest on our beloved student loans and much, much more. No matter how corny, dramatic or scary it is, the fact remains that we are the future of ()Uf country. This election year could greatly effect how we as members of the working force can further develop ourselves and our country. We must take advantage ()f our opportunity to have a say in our future. Here at Union we may feel Wltouched by politics. But we are not. Our tuition, the availibility of scholarships and student loans, the very quality of our educatian are directLy effected by tile people elected to public office. We must vote. Every vote matters. The more youths who vote, that is to say- the more influence the youth choose to exert in the outcome of the electi~ms, the more at- tention the politicians will pay to our interests. Every single vote matters. Every vote is an ex:pression (){ opinion that is heard nationally. . .. - 11_._- _l.lllf'_: _;, - -- ·- ' .--- - _. ._ -' : ',£~ We thank everyone for their participation in the open forum, especially Anne Carl, Stephanie Hirnak, Tim Matthews and Devin Wenig. Respectfully submitted, Kelley Park Peter Leventhal Jay McCarthy Barbara Stastny Peter Lambert The Executive Board of the Fihn Committee You can only be heard when you vote. In order to vote, you must first register. Even though most of us are not near our homes, there are convenient, simple and quick ways to register and vote. Look for more information in the College Center this week or call 346-8505. Registering is a simple process. Please do- your future depends on it. Jane Hackett '89 ·.m, .,·, C~t~j?ag~~(!itor . _ .. J.$Sq~~:c~~~!lt1ltY p~e-~ifl>.r Am lWiiMs •---····· · ,_. · ·. · -• t \'~-_:r.~\\n· U/:U:-~ -r~on~ck Ttm Oold~tefn~Jini~tauiitllh Sclel'l«!i Editot Campus Rag~ adfrors Sports Editors , Assooiate. Spoos Editor PhotoEditor. . Advettisir.!g Jkiito.lfs. Associate Advertising E!litor Business Managm Honorary Fae'Ulty Advisot - · · ' - ' - l¢hnif¢fl{t)vfi · , - LisaM~~~t,Kdlb}iP$1<: Chris-ffimkl_¢y,,Audrew Miller Dave Mo:tris\)n Rebecca Sntiih ; .. Lisa JiroW!'lj Lo.,;i Kaplan ·· · Latit'<}n Feuermail.. ~at!ty Green · .· 'Beth: 1'vrney Brad Mondsohem. Karen Siroons C. William Hootley 'STAFF: 1llizabe1h Berliner, F'rabir Chakrabarty, Lisa Cherande, Greg Chronowski. J<Jy Cybul, .ferume Daley, Alan PeSa1vio, Jennifer England, Brian Ferguson, E'fu;;e F()ody, Cm Friedrich, Alex Gardner, Chris llut.mann, Martin Hec<k, Andrew llershaft. Stephanie Jaryna, Da.niel j, .K'eniry ~ Mary lleth Manning, Cathy Markes, Lisa Ordbwer, Bill Robbins, TiP.a Scioccb.~tti.~ Ezra Sherman. Ellen Tapley, Mark V iUl Buren. Mark Zim:m•i®. . ADV.JtJ{TISlNG STAtF~ ~chelle Alfarm. Robin Baskin, Missy Beal. Jilt Deutsch, l:!~lenc _DeVtia,'Dina <lohis. Llna LeUng. Mattina Mooret Leslie Morcis, Lii P:eit:ktrw~.JrJ ... -.- · · _ · _· PJtOTOGRAPBiliiR~ Gr~git!Fithmwski;' Amy ddl&tem. Stan K'tzin~ Susan Kets:clt · l;··· ·--it'···;J~;l\]; ,.· ;;· . .. ':•,• '. ':- .. l St1 U! es St pr fil it~ he ell th th th fil m m PI te fi' m C< ql rE Cl ft OJ VIi n a ~ sl Il h ~ F 0 s 1' v v (] t t c t I (

CONCORDIENSlS, Ftbruary 18, 1988 Page 13 S.A.P. Commended; Community Enlightened . . For a number of years, the ~ Student Film Committee .of Union College, or.e of the established Student Forum . Standing co:mmittees, has proposed· to show one X-rated film each winter term as part of its schedule. The Committee -has genera~ly justified its · choice by indicating that both the attendance at the film and the income generated e:11:ceed those of any other of the 30 Some films scheduled. In the Com• mittee's eyes, it .is a \tnoneym maker'' which helps com- pEmsat~ for the smaller at• tendance at many of the other films and also helps the com- mittee maintain a level of in~ come that allows ether popular quality films with .a higher rental fee ·to be shown. The committee members have further justified their choice by saying that they are choosing only what the ''student body'' wants to see; In fact, ' the majority of .students do NOT attend the film. The over- whelming majority of the students who see the film are men;· the spirit of the audience has been compared to that which characterizes the Rocky Borror Picture Sbow; and no one seems to take the film seriously. To most, it is ludicrous fantasy fantasy without aQy relation to the real world. In the past, many members of our conununity have objected to the showing of the -film - mostly through occasional letters to Concordiensis. These letters in turn have been met with respanses from students defending their \freedom and right\ to see the film; remin- ding their opponents that no one is ''forcing\ thelli to go see the · film; and castigating them for presUming to choose for others what they can and ca'nnot see. Most of this debate has been focused on a defense of students' rights to see the film. Neither the Film Committee nor the students in favor of showing the film have asked whether the showing of the film might have a deleterious effect on the College. Most members of the tacuuy and ad- ministration, while no doubt ·finding the showing of the film inappropriate an(l offensive, have iii the p~st seen the scheduling. of the fibn as passing sophomQric nonsense typical of collegiate derring-do. No definitve public voice · emerged in opposition until this . year. · The Students . Against Por· nography and others have in- dicated that the pr-oposed film, lnsatiable, shoUld not be shown because of the extremely of .. fensive nattn:_e of the film, the \hypocrisy\ of the College in sanctioning the showing of the £ilm, and the possibllity of violence or negative attitudes towarQ, women as a resUlt -of the · fibn. During the past year, the College has taken a munber of positive steps to improve relations between men and women on the campus, and it was felt that the showing of the film would seriously negate the progress that has been made. The arguments of those op- posing the film may be sum- marized as follows: • Pornography is patently offtmsive to m.any members of - this community and inap- propriate in light of the College's mission to introduce students to the very best that has been thought, written, and depicted through various art 'forms. - Porr10graphy may con- tribute to ah environment which is degrading to both men and women. -No institution iS enhanced by tolerance for pornography. - College funds and facilities should not be used to support this film and ~he pornography industry in general. · - Pornographic films reduce potentially rich human relationships between men and women, which ip.clude love, caring, and mutual respect, to limited, mechabized exchanges · of simulated sexual pleasure. -At worst, pornograph~c films encourage violence against women, pose a threat to the well-being of women in our society, and· eontrib~te to an environment in whieh women are treated as sexual objects. The· idea oi a eollege com- munity i::J the idea of a special kind. of community, one marked by a free sharing -of ideals and goals. At Union, we believe in the ancient conception Qf a college as a society -of scholars associated togetber for preserving, imparting, in- ·creasing, and enjoying knowledge. Te achieve this, we must produce an atmo~phere that will encourage a taste for the life of the mind, a respect for intellect, and a sense of the t:ange of hwnan :possibilities. That is why we ·are ·concerned wifh more than leauling in the narrow sense of attending cla-sses. We know thet learning and teaching go on in many way~; indeed, there is a sense that nothing we (!o is ex- tracurricular - that all of it counts. From time to time, there are instances that do not further the eduGational goals of th.e College. The kind of movie proposed by the Film Committee is such an instance, and . following the pwblic disc\ijssion ar1d debate which have taken place,- it is unfortunate that the FUm Committee chose to ignore the ·Cogent arguments .presented by Students Against P<Ornogtaphy who are to be commended for having raised the consciousness of our community. ' On Tuesday evenJllg at 7:00 p.m. in 88016, a . film entitled Not A tove Story: .A Filln About Pernography will also be shown, 'followed by e discussion led by Professor Ken DeBono of th~ Psychology Department. \J will precede by a day the showing of the SO-<!alled porn flick. As an educational in- stitution, we should use this opportunity to weigh the alternatives and evaluate the consequences for <1Ur com- munity. It is encouraging to note that the Film Committee proposes to eliminate in the future the cavalier·Uke mannet in which ' . LET'TERS- C'overt Opposition to Covert Action To the Editor: Last Wednesday, when the CIA was on campus conducting · interviews with seniors for entry•level positions, notices were posted all_ over campus entitled \THE CIA IS HERE!! ! \ These notices - contained infonnation regar- din~ CIA activities ~d were apparently meant to raise the awareness of people on campus. Witliin the first sentence of the · notices was the statement \ ... we feel 'that you should be informed of a few facts- con- cerning our government's covert actions.\ While many questions were raised both explicitly and implicitly in the notices, one question should have been answered for th<lse who read those postings: who are the \we\ referred to in the beginning of these notices? ~ Without question, rais.ing political awareness is a laudable activity. However, as we are all too often reminded in this presidential election year, the .preSent .fihn has been chosen and dropped on our conununity .. Let us hope that we will all have become more enlightened by next year. If we are, no small measur.e of our change will be due to the courageous voices of the group of students who have made other students stop, think, reflect, and debate about their actions. The College has noted the productive discussion that has taken place among the student body during the past two weeks. In light of this, we are not now taking any action to prohibit the Showing of the film. We will continue to work with all members of our community to strive to present to our students only the bestt that has been thought, written, and depicted until that has become a com- · mort goal devoid of the spectre of censorship. Joseph Manunola, Dean of Students James Underwood, Dean of Faculty the methods are as important as the message. A.n um;igned posting with Jl() claim of responsibility by tbe authors is an irteffective way to voice an opinio:n. In fact, it may even be count-erproductive if the readers are tumed off by the anonymity of thE source, as I was. Furthermo~e, if there are others who agree with the arguments rai~ed in such postings or who want to learn more . from the authors, the llkelillood of those people doing detective work to find the source is slim. Rec-ently at Union, students and faculty have been taking the time to speak out regarding a comtroversial issue, namely the renting and showing of pornographic films on campus. People in the '!!ampus com- mUnity can identify (and ldentify With) tltose on either side of this issue and those pers()ns should\ be- respected for their forthrightness. Perhaps the issue of the CIA in- . terviewing on Clllilpus shoUld be discussed with the same openness. Undoubtedly both issues are very different. However, if the CIA issue or any other is to be addressed on this campus,. it deserves a· better introduction than anonymous postings. Ir()iiically, thE issue of CIA \covert actio11s\ has been addressed in a «!overt manner! Sincerely, Peter Trolio Associate Director Career Devel()pment Center Have an opinion? Speak out. Write a Letter to the Editor. Pay For Thesis Grading? Let the Seniors Choose Their Gift To the Editor: .Seniors approaching graduation look back with fondness at the laughs we shared With friends and the knowledge we gained Wlder the guidance of our favorite p_rofessors.' Many seniors are also beginning to look back with increasing cynicism at the administration which has certainly impressedupon us the importance of the bottom line. Were many of us aware that during our four years at Union - tuition woUld increase by 26 percent {from its original figure of $8,710 to 1987-88's $10,965) our choice of colleges may have been affected. Perhaps this increase was necessary for the college to upgrade the quality of education which we were being sold. This ·interpretation would be easier to accept if our classes bad gotten -smaller or if the school had not amassed an operating surplus of $6,868;668 during our first 3 years here (the figures tor this year are not available yet). These tUition increases and. concurrent ex- cessive subsidies occurred during a t.i:me when, for much of - it, the very fa(Jilities which we were paying for . were not available. Intuitively it would seem that during a time of construction expenditures would exceed revenues. The -recently proposed tUition increase of 10.5 percent at a time when inflation is running closer to 6-7 percent further . hardens the cynicism em ... bedded in seniors even though it does not affect us. The reasons for this increase need to be made Clear. If it is to make up for the loss in the value of the endowment incurred during the recent market crash this is unethical. The endowment should not .be built on the backs of the students. - The college also has solicited seniors to donate some of the $150 deposit upon its refund. This money bas been held by the college for-4.5 years and is being returned at face value. Anyone who has taken an economics course knows that the college~ has already realized significant gains on this money at any discount rate. Assuming 500 of these deposits invested at a ludicrously low 5 percent rate compounded annually over 4 years they've made of $16,000 in interest on that money. Now we are being asked to give a fur· ther $8 for the privilege of having our theses graded (r~ally). If they, wish to microfilm my thesis they can damn well pay tor it them- selves. ThiS letter is not intended to defame the college. It is only through _ pointing out flaws in things which we endear that we can make them better: witness To the Editor: I am writing concerning the senior gift drive which our school's alumni relations office feels would be a good way to introduce tiS to the generous alumni ·club. I will begin by saying that I support the idea of\ a senior gift, but with some reservations. Let us consider a few facts. First, they are ·asking us to donate five dollars from the one hwufi'ed dollar return we can get on our initial deposit from . four years ago. This·_ sounds rea~Sonable, but CO!nsider that we have lent them this money for four years. 11Us gives them 500 one hlllldred dollar loans at no interest. If they- invest this money (which I am sure they did) at 6 percent futerest for four years they get a four year .investment retul'!l of $13,123.85. ThiS means that we have Woody Allen's re~Cent scathing attack on the New York, Times op-ed page of Israel's. mishandling e>f funds by -educationally ori:ented people with little financial experience. A more realistic view may be of a self-perpetuating bureaucracy firn:lly intent on entrenching its elf by con~ sistently turning a profit. David J. Cope '88 already given them $26.24 each (give or take a dollar). This money they have the op· pcrtunity to use for whatever they want (and I'm sure they already have). I feel that the true nature of a senior gift should allow us to pick a particular gift or fund towards which our money will be directed. I have discussed this with several of my classmates and from these discussions constructed a possible list: 1) Donate the money to the Schwarz Fund, in honor of Professor Ted Schwarz who died of leukemia this past summer. This money would hel.p bring more cultural events to the campus through its support of the international students. 2). Earmark the money towards improving campus safety by having a device·put on the roof of Carnegie to block the snow from falling on our heads . as we leave for class. 3) 'The most i:nteresting suggestion so far comes from Mary Ann Dunham who suggests that we donate the mmley towards a new sign for Carnegie in order to preserve the Canegie name. (Don't take this one too lightly, we are the last class who \Will remember Carnegie as it was.) 1rl conclusioii, I would like to ask all of the seniors to support this drive by getting involved and .telling the committee member who contacts you that you will donate if a Specific project is targeted for the gift. I for one woUld give the $5.00 without the free T-shirt offer (I already have e!lough of those), but. I would like to know what is benefitting from · my con- tribution. I feel my father's nearly $60,000 blind contribution to the school is g:enerous enough a gift for the 1980s. Let's give something we 'Can remember! Chris Hartmann Alliiilni Council Representative fm the Class of 1988 Applications are now being accepted for the Orientation Committee. All students who will be in reside.nce this spring and next fall are welcome to apply. Applications av a.ilable in the dean o( students office; due by Feb. 22.

CONCORDIENSIS, February 18, 1988 Page 13 S.A.P. Commended; Community Enlightened For a number of years, the Student Film Committee of Union College, or.e of the established Student Forum Standing Committees, has proposed to show <!me X-rated film each winter term as part of its schedule. The CoH1IDittee has generally justified Us choice by indicating that both the attendance at the film and the income generated exceed those of any other of the 30 some films scheduled. In the Com- mittee's eyes, it is a \money- maker'' which helps com- pensat~ for the smaller at- tendance at many of the other films and also helps the com- mittee maintain a level of in- come that aHows other popular quality films with a higher rental fee to be shown. The committee members have further justified their choice by saying that they are choosing only what the \studeflt body\ wants to see. In fact, the majority of students do NOT attend the film. The over- whelming majority of the students who see the film are men; the spirit of the audience has been compared to that which characterizes the Rocky Horror Picture Show; and no one seems to take the film seriously. To most, it is ludicrous fantasy fantasy without any relation to the real world. In the past, many members of our community have objected to the showing of the film- mostly through occasional letters to Concordiensis. These letters in turn have been met with responses from students defending their \freedom and right'' to see the film; remin- ding their opponents that no one is \forcing\ them to go see the film; and castigating them for presuming to choose for others what they can and cannot see. Most of this debate has been focused on a defense of students' rights to see the film. Neither the Film Committee nor the students in favor of showing the film have asked whether the showing of the film might have a deleterious effect on the College. Most members of the ta,culty and ad- ministration, while no doubt finding the show,ing of the film inappropriate and offensive, have in the past seen the scheduling of the film as passing sophomoric nonsense typical of collegiate derring-do. No definitve public voice emerged in opposition until this year. The Students Against Por- nography and others have in- dicated that the propesed film, Insatiable, should not be shown because of the extremely of- fensive nature of the film, the \hypocrisy\ of the College in sanctioning the showing of the film, and the possibility of violence or negative attitudes toward women as a result of the film. During the past year, the College has taken a number of positive steps to improve relations between men and women on the campus, and it was felt that the showing of the film would seriously negate the progress that has been made. The arguments of those op- posing the film may be sum- marized as follows: ~ Pornography is patently offensive to many members of this community and inap- propriate in light of the College's mission to introduce students to the very best that has been thought, written, and depicted through various art forms. · Pornography may con- tribute to an environment which is degrading to both men and women. -No institution is enhanced by tolerance for pornography. • College funds and facilities should not be used to support this film and the pornography industry in general. · Pornographic films reduce potentially rich human relationships between men and women, which include love, caring, and mutual respect, to limited, mechanized exchanges of simulated sexual pleasure. · At worst, pornographic films encourage violence against women, pose a threat to the well-being of women in our society, and contribute to an environment in which women are treated as sex:ual objects. The idea of a college com- munity is the idea of a special kind of commWlity, ene marked by a free sharing of ideals and goals. At Union, we believe in the ancient conception of a college as a society of scholars associated together for preserving, imparting, in- creasing, and enjoying knowledge. To achieve this, we must produce an atmosphere that will encourage a taste for the life of the mind, a respect for intellect, and a sense of the range of human possibilities. That is why we ·are concerned with more than learning in the narrow sense of attending classes. We know that learning and teaching go on in many ways; indeed, there is a sense that nothing we do is ex- tracurricular - that all of it counts. From time to time, there are instances that do not further the educational goals of the College. The kind of movie proposed by the Film Committee is such an instance, and following the public discussion and debate which have taken place, it is unfortunate that the Film Committee chose to ignore the cogent arguments presented by Students Against Pornography who are to be commended for having raised the consciousness of our community. On Tuesday evening at 7:00 p.m. in SS016, a film entitled Not A Love Story: A Film About Pornography will also be shown, followed by a discussion led by Professor Ken DeBono of the Psychology Department. This will precede by a day the showing of the so-called porn flick. As an educational in- stitution, we should use this opportunity to weigh the alternatives and evaluate the consequences for our com- munity. It is encouraging to note that the Film Committee proposes to eliminate in the future the cavalier-like manner in which LETTERS Covert Opposition to Covert Action To the Editor: Last Wednesday, when the CIA was an campus conducting interviews with seniors for entry-level positions, notices were posted all over campus . entitled \THE CIA IS HERE!!!\ These notices contained in:formation regar- ding CIA activities and were apparently m.ean.t to raise the awareness of people on ·campus. Within the first sentence of t.he notices w~s the statement \ ... we feel that you should be informed of a few facts con- cerning our government's covert actions.\ While many questions were raised both explicitly and implicitly in the notices, one question should have been answered for those who read those postings: who are the \we\ referred to in the beginning of these notices? Without question, raising political awareness is a laudable activity. However, as we are all too often reminded in this presidential election year, the present film has been chosen and dropped on our community. Let us hope that we will all have become more enlightened by next year. If we are, no small measure of our change will be due to the courageous voices of the group of students who have made other students stop, think, reflect, and debate about their actions. The College has noted the productive discussion that has taken place among the student body during the past two weeks. In light of this, we are not now taking any action to prohibit the showing of the film. We will continue to work with all members of our community to strive to present to our students only the bestt that has been thought, written, and depicted until that has become a com- mon goal devoid of the spectre of censorship. Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students James Underwood, Dean of Faculty the methods are as important as the message. An unsigned IJOSting with no claim of l'esponsibility by the authors is Cln ineffective way to voice an mpiriion. In fact, it may even be II!ollnterproductive if the readers are turned off by the ~nonymity of the source, as I \Vas. Furthermore, if there are ·others who agree with the arguments raised in such J)ostings or who want to learn more from the authers, the likelihood of those people doing .aetective work to find the :<lource is slim. Recently at Union, students and faculty have been taking tbe time to speak out regarding a controversial issue, namely the renting and showing of .J)Ornographic films on campus. People in the campus com- wunity can identify (and identify with) those on either s.ide of this issue and those persons should be respected for their forthrightness. Perhaps the issue of the CIA in- terviewing on campus should be discussed with the same ()penness. Undoubtedly both issues are very different. However, if the CIA issue or any other is to be addressed on this campus, it deserves a better introduction than anonymous postings. Ironically, the issue of CIA \'covert actions\ has been addressed in a covert manner! Sincerely, Peter Trolio Associate Director Career Development Center Have ar1 opinion? Speak out. Write a Letter to the Editor. Pay For Thesis Grading? Let the Seniors Choose Their Gift To the Editor: Seniors approaching graduation look back with fondness at the laughs we shared with friends and the knowledge we gained under the guidance of our favorite professors. Many seniors are also beginning to look back with increasing cynicism at the administration which has certainly impressed upon us the importance of the bottom line. Were many of us aware that during our four years at Union tuition would increase by 26 percent (from its original figure of $8,710 to 198741B's $10,965) our choice of colleges may have been affected. Perhaps this increase was necessary for the college to upgrade the quality of education which we were being sold. This interpretation would be easier to accept if our classes had gotten smaller or if the school had not amassed an operating surplus of $6,868,668 during our first 3 years here (the figures for this year are not available yet). These tuition increases and concurrent ex- cessive subsidies occurred during a time when, for much of it, the very facilities which we were paying for were not available. Intuitively it would seem that during a time of construction expenditures would exceed revenues. The recently proposed tuition increase of 10.5 percent at a time when inflation is running closer to 6-7 percent further hardens the cynicism em- bedded in seniors even though it does not affect us. The reasons for this increase need to be made clear. If it is to make up for the loss in the value of the endowment incurred during the recent market crash this is unethical. The endowment should not be built on the backs of the students. The college also has solicited seniors to donate some of the $150 deposit upon its refund. This money has been held by the college for 4.5 years and is being returned at face value. Anyone who has taken an economics course knows that the college has already realized significant gains on this money at any discount rate. Assuming 500 of these deposits invested at a ludicrously low 5 percent rate compoWlded annually over 4 years they've made of $16,000 in interest on that money. Now we are being asked to give a fur- ther $8 for the privilege of having our theses graded (really). If they wish to microfilm my thesis they can damn well pay for it them- selves; This letter is not intended to defame the college. It is only through pointing out flaws in things which we endear that we can make them better: witness To the Editor: I am writing concerning the senior gift drive which our school's alwnni relations office feels would be a good way to introduce us to the generous alwnni club. I will begin by saying that I support the idea of' a senior gift, but with some reservations. Let us consider a few facts. First, they are asking us to donate five dollars from the one hundred dollar return we can get on our initial deposit from four years ago. This sounds reasonable, but consider that we have lent them this money for four years. This gives them 500 one hundred dollar loans at no interest. If they invest this money (which I am sure they did) at 6 percent interest for four years they get a four year investment return of $13,123.85. This means that we have Woody Allen's recent scathing attack on the New York· Times op-ed page of Israel's mishandling of funds by educationally oriented people with little financial experience. A more realistic view may be of a self-perpetuating bureaucracy firmly intent on entrenching itself by con- sistently turning a profit. DavidJ. Cope '88 already given them $26.24 each (give or take a dollar). This money they have the op- portunity to use for whatever they want (and I'm sure they already have). I feel that the true nature of a senior gift should allow us to pick a particular gift or fund towards which our money will be directed. I have discussed this with several of my classmates and from these discussions constructed a possible list : 1) Donate the money to the Schwarz Fund, in honor of Professor Ted Schwarz who died of leukemia this past sununer. This money would help bring more cultural events to the campus through its support of the international students. 2) Earmark the money towards improving campus safety by having a device put 011 the roof of Carnegie to block the snow from falling on our heads as we leave for class. 3) The most interesting suggestion so far comes from Mary Ann Dunham who suggests that we donate the money towards a new sign for Carnegie in order to preserve the Canegie name. (Don't take this one too lightly, we are the last class who will remember Carnegie as it was.) In conclusion, I would like to ask all of the seniors to support this drive by getting involved and telling the committee member who contacts you that you will donate if a specific project is targeted for the gift. I for one would give the $5.00 without the free T-shirt offer (I already have enough of those). but I would like to know what is benefitting from my con- tribution. I feel my father's nearly $60,000 blind contribution to the school is generous enough a gift for the 1980s. Let's give something we can remember! Chris Hartmann Alumni Council Representative for the Class of 1988 Applications are now being accepted for the Orientation Committee. All students who wil I be in residence this s.pring and next fall are welcome to apply. Applications available in the dean of students office~ due by Feb. 22.

( -, • ' I • } \ ' < •• '7: .... 'I.\! \'I)~ .• I. .. ~~ '~1. t' ~-~. • l . \ • •• • \ l ' • J •• } Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS 1 Fe.bruary 18, 1.988 LETTERS Contract For Alcohol Faculty Short on Support To the Editor: To the Editor: We would like to ta}[e this opportlll1ity to thank au those who participated in th-e Mountebanks pr6duetioo of ''Shades of Grey.\ We w.o:uld like to thank the cast members and oth~rs who helped' develop and present the snow with such candor and integrity. It took a lot of courage to channel tlleir emotions and ideas into a presentation for everyon~ to see. Also, we wouldlilte totl!ank Professors, DeBono,. ·Huggins; and .Atlas for leading ·the discussions following the performances. We recognize the fact that tlleir time off from Union is limited and precleus; We applaud their dedication. Finally, we would like to thank everyone who came to .see, listen, and participate in \Shades of Grey.\ The· level of honesty and maturity present in the discussions following the perfor.mances. wa~ ex- traol'dinary. However, it is quite disheartening to note one .fact. The number of faculty and administration at the presen- tations was very meager at best. We ~ind this extremely disturbing considering that select members of the faculty and admirlistration .are very quick to point out the lack of SQcial awareness and apathy abounding at Union. Then, when something is produced that · demonstrates a modicum of social responsibility, it. receives no ·support or even intel\est. We feel that tile time and money- spent in printing and delivering ~diY:idual invitations to all the fac~ty wa~ wasted. Again, we realize tbat the profess.ors tiJ;:ne . away from Union. is. short. However, we also :believe that programs such as ' 1 S}lades of ·Grey\ could provi.de some insight ·into the ideas and at- titudes of the Union/students and thereQy aid in student- faculty relations. We hope that \Shades of Grey\' is only the start of an increase in student' social consciousness .. We hope that similar forums will be spon- sored in the years to come and when they are, they receive some support by students and faculty alike. Thank you, Melissa Bloom and Craig Ratner, · Co-producers The Union College Inter- Fraternity Council recently established an Alcohol Awareness Committee. The purpose of this committee is to assist fraternities in both realizing the problems that alcohol can cause and dealing with these problems·, thus prom~ting the responsible us~ of alc()hol. The first action of the committee was the distribution of the Students for the Respi)11Sible Use of Alcohol contract. This honorary con- tract,. which was the result of the ideas and work of several Union students, is presently in the process of being signed by the individual fraternities and then collected. The contract itself is much like a SADD contract in that it is an honorary agreement. However, this contract deals with many other problems and concerns rather than with simply drinking and driving. The first page of the contract is a type of in- troduction and explanation which is to be read aloud at a fraternity meeting. The second page is the actual \contract\ which is to be passed to each individual member and signed, if that member wishes to do· so. This contract is not legally binding and is not meant to infer any further legal liability upon a fraternity. It is meant to be a thought provoking, educational tool. The idea being that, if fraternity members read this contract, they will be forced to think about the problems that alcohol causes, and, hopefully, they will more easily recognize them and deal with them in the future. As the first page states, this agreement is one that is' pre.supposed by tile notion of brotherhood, but it is also one that is often clouded by other ideals often confused with brotherhood. It is not meant to insult the motives of a frater· nity, but rather to clear up this confusion and, most im- portantly, to remind the in- dividual members of what a fraternity should never forget - We should all look out for each other's best interests and those best interests include the best ·interests.of our guests. In recent times, there has been much ,concern expressed, both by the Union College community and the general public, about the problems that alcohol can cause. If there was one solution that would eliminate all th<Jse problems, then fraternities and society as a whole would have enacted it long ago i but there is no single solution. This honorary agreement is a small step, but at least it is a step in the right direction. The Real World Speaks More Than English Yours truly, · Jeffrey W. Smith, IFC Alcohol Awareness Committee.Chairman STUDENTS FOR THE RESPONSIBLE USE OF ALCOHOL* We all know the difference between right andwrong, but alcohol can often confuse our sense of moral justice. As places where alcohol is consumed, Greek s.gcieties ace constantly under pressure and, indeed, do have a responsibility to protect both their members and visitors to their premises. If even one brother is involved in a degrading activity, then the whole organization will suffer. The truth of the matter is that wllather we could have stopped the situation or .not, the .fraternity will taka the brunt of the burden. It follows that if we could have put an end to 1he problem we should have. We have to deal with problem situations and accusations .at one time of another, and only in very few of the cases could something not have been done beforehand; if only one member would have taken the initiative to explain to the perpetrator that their activities were potentially hazardous to themselves, their organization, and others. It is the aim of this document to arouse and strengthen that sense of duty that every Greek. member should already realiz~. That is to say, a sense of responsibility to their society as a whole and its members individually. Many problems would be eliminated if people would only drink and not become intoxicated, but almost everyone who chooses to consume alcohol becomes intoxicated Oil occasion. It is hoped that by the signing of this document, the next time a society member becomes intoxicated, and is in a potentially dangerous situation, that he and any other. nearby brothers will remember the purpose of this document which they have signed and do something, anything to impede the impending incident. If the potentially hazardous event is successfully inhibited, then it should follow that your brotherhood will be protected. This document simply states what should already be inherent to the ideals of your organization, but · hopefully it will serve the purpose of a reminder. A reminder which is not meant to place anymore guilt from happening in the first place through remembrance, realization, and recognition of one's responsibility to tlleir society and to the Greek system as a whole. It is perhaps the' W()rSt feeling to regret the past, so· let's think of the future now, and may WE never forget our responsibilities. · FRATERNITY NAME: ___ _ DATE READ:-. To the Editor: Registration week is ai1 ap- propriate time for me to bring out my idee fixe and shar-e my accumulated wisdom witll the students of Union College. That wisdom takes the form of ad- vice: all students, or nearly all students, should be study'iBg a foreign language most of the time they are at college. Since many students hate languages, and many think they will never \need\ them, this advice will have to be defended. I will give both general reasons, and personal experiences: that back them up. If any of you are going teO be lawyers or businessmell, you will need a language ability in order to best serve your clients, employe.rs, and · couotry. Americans are doing so .oodly overseas in no small part because they cannot speak their potential customers' langttages. Englisb is not the internatiomd business language; the language of the customer is! When I was practicing law on Wall Street and in Tokyo, I frequently witnessed fCJreign negotiating teams consulting in their own language .among themselves during meetmgs, confident that their American counterparts would n«>t be able to understand them. ~. may not have been decisive ih the outcome of particular negotiations, but it is symp- tomatic foreign recognition of American weakness. \Co-wboy\ American businessmen who think that the whole world is like Texas, or Yuppies who think it is like Manhattan, just do nof understand the foreigners they are dealing with, and make. all sorts ef faux pas. When . yDu learn a language, you also learn something about the way o-thers · think, and this is esse!ltial in doing business; · I remember an Engllsh- speaking Japanese lawyer who I, the undersigned, will do my best to uphold the name of my fraternity and the< Greek system in general. If I am present while one of my brothers, while under the influenc~ of alcoho.l, proceed to enter i~to or ar~ ~angerously · close to c;:ommiting any potentially disgraceful acts as vandalism, acquarntance rape, brawling, or drilling <lrunk, I will attempt to bring his attention to the potential consequences of his actions, and attempt to resolve the situation. 1 realize that I have a responsibility to both my organization and the entire. Greek system. If I am acting urnder the influence of alcohol, and find myself in the opposite position, where a fellow brother believes ttlat I am entering into a potentially harmful situation, then I will abide by the brother's judgement I do not wish to behave in arny way that is potentially harm.ful to f!lYSelf or o~ers. I also rea:lzie that if I ~hoose to consume al~ohol! the majority of the problems that ar1se durmg a party mvolve people. who are letting alcohol control the.1r actions. Therfore, 1 will try to control my use of alcohol, understanding that it is not alrightto become uncontrollabty and . dangerously intoxicated when I consume alcohoL SIGNATURES: FRATERNITY NAME:, ___________ _ DATE SIGNED:. ___ _ •This document il> meant ot be an expression of our concern for our brothers and our guests, and is .not meant to confer any legal liability. told me he was proud to be one of only a few hundred Japanese lawyer-s who · could· speak English well enough t<> do in- ternational trade law. The pity is that there are only a few dozen American lawyers who can speak Japanese. I should add that as a matter of pure careerism, ·languages helped Ute avoid the grunt work in the library that is the fate of many young lawyers: I was pulled out of the library and called in· on high-level meetings just because I could understand~ foreign languages and ·men~ talities and translate for senior partners. I received a nwnber of job offers based largely on this ability. If . you are going to be a teacher or scholar, languages open up whole fields that can only be explored in· foreign languages, and widen fields that are usually explored in English. There is ahnost no area of scholarship in which a familiarity with W()rk carried on in other languages would not be valuable. Lest this soWid like a social sciences-llUmanities . bias, let me ~dd that in today's world, with Japanese, German, French and other scientists and engineers on the forefront of research in many areas, scientists and engineers with language abilities can keep up with tile latest research in their fields. Depending on the part of the country they are practicing.· in, medical doctors these days sometimes find that the majority of their patients speak Spanish or some other foreign language. · You learn mare from studying a language tllan merely how to speak it. You learn how to think in different ways: You pick up cUlture. And you learn to appreciate the nuances of your own language better. Frankly, one of the main reasons I learn languages is sheer curiosity. Behind the curtain of another language is a whole world of culture and ways of thinking and expression. It is an aesthetic pleasure, and sheer fun, to open up those new worlds. Learning new languages is really a more sophisticated form of traveling. The great philosopher Immanuel Kant never left his hometown, but he read avidly· in the · travel literature of his day in several languages, and claimed that he felt as if he had been everywhere. And anyone who has traveled abroad will tell you what a pale experience it is to travel in countries where you do not know the language after you have traveled in countries - where you do know the language. For those of you who think it is too late to learn a language, because of the cliche that only the young can learn them, let me tell you that I was a late bloomer. I did poDrly in the one language I studied in high schQol and only studied it one semester in college. Then I studied a different language (supposedly a more c;llificult one) while I was in law school, and it came easily! Since then, I have learned three or four more with pleasure, and use them in my work. As one of. my professors at the University of Chicago put it, \After the first five languages, it's easy!\ He used fifteen in his work. Sincerely, John Christian Laursen Dept. of Political Science This is the last notice requesting Union Gql'lege faculty the period September 1 ~ ' 1985 - August 31 , 1987 to the Faculty Bibliography Group at Schaffer Library. The next edition of the Bibliography will be published ln the spring of 1988. Please send copies of publications to lngrida ) Dambergs at Schaffer Library. The Physics Department is conducting a reappointment review for Professors Lazslo Bakssay and Richard Magahiz .. Persons wishing to contribute oral or written testimoby regarding Professor Magahiz or Professor Baksays reappointment are encouraged to contact Professor David Peak, Chair, Physics ~ Department. .

·CONCORDIENSIS, February 18, 198~ Page 15 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY M·eet George-Jetson:.Space Capsule By MA~\IINHECK Meet George Jetson, his boy Elroy, daughter Judy, Jane his wife. To those of us of the television age, the Jetsons may represent the qtrlntessen:tial family of the fut'u,re. They have a car that travels through the air, a house that lifts above the clouds to select weather con~ ditions, a dog named · Astro(Tralfaz}, and a robot maid named Rosie. When vacation time arrives, a quick jaunt to the moon is only a ticket away .. What more can we hope for? Of course if you disagree witl} t]lis perception, you may 'hope. to join · the Robinson family \Lost in Space,\ or Buck Rogers in the 25th century, or even Duck l)ogers in the 24th-and-a.half. Televisian and movies have shaped the average person's view (lf space. an the future; hut what will it really be like? What will the future hold for our generation? Consider at the time of our parents l;)i:rth, space was an unknown frontier. It lived only in the radiQ.Sbows Flash Gordon and in the books of various authors. Exploration by satellite was still somewhat distant, and telescopes were reaching a relatively limited area. While we bad undoubtedly outgrown the perception of the man on the moon,. our sister plans in the works for a rCJcket planet Mars was a source great plane that would blast off from ·intrigue .. Ray Bradbury wrote New York, and, following a the Martian· Chronicle$, Bugs trajectory out into space mush Bunny tangled with the little like an inter-continental _green Martian and his cosmic ballistic missile, have its oc- disintegrator, and Orson Wells cupants in Los Angeles ,in a terdfied a. portion of the nation small fr~ction of the time its with his radio broadcast ofWar takes a plane .. The UnitedStates of the Worlds. Space travel was in planning a permanent space consi<;lered impossible, and a station, industrial manufac- . mo.()ll landing to ridiculous for turing in space will follow,. and most scientists to even con- perhaps even a permanent base template. · on the Moon. . Today, however, we live in a It is really impossible for us world where space travel is to Imagine what life will be like almost routine. Man has walked for our children. Perhaps they on t:he Moon and probe landings will be. like Elroy Jetson and on Mars have shown it a dead, spend their Boy Scout camping desert plant, and we know our trips on the Moon. At least, we solar system is devoid of know for certain space will be civilizations. It seems the only integral part of their lives. They worlds that may contain .arty will almost certainly buy life, and most likely only as pi'oducts manufactured there, sim:ple as one-celled organisms, very conceivably visit at least are Io, the ice moon of Jupitar, once in a lifetime, and maybe and Titan, Saturn's moon and even live there on a somewhat the ()nly one in the solar system permanent basis. Twenty-five witll an atmosphere. As soon as years ago many callE~d it is launched with the Space President Kennedy a dreamer Sh11ttle, the Hubble Space for starting the program that Tel-escope will open the most far would result less than ten years reaches of the universe to our _ later in a Moon landing. eyes. The telescope, destined to Technology .grows ex· be orbited sometime in 1989, ponentially, the achievements will allow us the improvement of the last 25 years eclipse over our most advanced and tho11sands of years of ad· powerful telescopes that vancement. It is impossible for Galileo's first telescope allowed us ~to foresee what the future over the naked eye. There are may really be like, but as far World Famous Physicist Dies asthe Jetsons go, truth .is (lften stranger, and indeed. much more fantastic, than fiction. By .JENNlFERKOVE Science 'Editor Tllis physicist was .. educated at MIT and Princeton and has taught at Cornell and Cal Tech. This Tuesday marked the loss He is known in the Science of perhaps one of the world's community ·as a brilliant, ·most .colorful scientists. egotistical eccentric. An ac- Richard Phillips Feynman died curate portrayal of Feynman is of cancer at age 69 earlier thiS perhaps best presented in his week. Feynman iS noted for his autobiography, Surely Your're many contributions to the field Joldng, Mr. Fe~n, in which of high energy physics. H-e did be describes his boyish his most wportant work in escapades of lockpicking, bongo quantum electrodynamics, drliDU1ling, dating, and more. propounded the , famous He was a colorful character Feynman diagrain ·(see pic- whose presence will be missed ture), and mathematically in more ways tl:ian one. explained the behavior of liquid Time helium. Feynman was in- strumental in the development Save A Life Give Blood 11:00 a.m.- 5:00p.m. Old Chapel Red Cross Bloodmobile r:ror:n Wha:l's So Funny· About Science by Sidney Harris Snow: More Complicated Than You'd Ever Believe ByPRABIRCHAKRABARTY Snaw, to some its beautiful, to .others a nuisance, still to others it's a topie of great scientific interest. · There are nwnerous substances that are loosely described as snow. For example, wet snow has a completely different structure than dry snow. Even, the snow we see lying in piles around Union College has different layers with separate types of snow. If y()U were to go out after a recent snowfall, you could still find some whole hexagonal crystals of snow. These will . quickl~ change in s~ructure evenwtthout temperature changes, or wind. The major factor affecti~g recently fallen snow IS destructive metamorphosis. This is the tendency for the crystals to form ice grains. With the production of t 1 Je grains, the larger grains ex- pand at the expense of the smaller ones. This is explained by the greater curvature of smaller ice crystals which lose vapor to the larger ones. This vapor forms ice around the larger grains, correspondingly making them larger. The different layers of snow have different names. Snow that bas been melted then re· frozen is called corn snow. While snow even farther down, which is made up of large crystals is called, sugar snow. Then at temperatures above 40, we get slush (a common sight at Union College). Slush is com- posed of loosely-connected crystals with large amounts of water in the spaces between crystals. One may wonder at the need for research about snow, but is actually very important. Analysis of snow is conducted to guard against avalanches, as well as better surface for skiing. These are all very dependant on the structures of the component ice crystals. Snow that is very prone to landslides and avalanches are ealled surface hoar, and are composed of large loosely- bonded crystals. Other factors making snow prone to avalanche- include wetness, compaction, and amount of air pollutants in the snow. Snow can sometimes act in peculiar ways. At some time, you might have wondered why snow around trees in shaded areas has melted, while snow in the fields hasn't. This is due to the fact·that, although ·.mow is one of the best natura! reflec- tors of shortwave radiation, like the sun's rays, it will absorb long-wave radiation, like that from trees. So, the snow around the trees will melt, while the snow in open fields will reflect the sun's energy. You probably never realized that the winter wonderland surrounding us was . so complex. of the atomic bomb. He was a group leader of the Los Alamos project ih New Mexico for several years. \'He is also responsible for discovering the reason for the Challenger's faUure and demonstrated this reason in front of Congress. Numerous awards have been bestowed ,11pon this brilliant man, such as a Nobel Pdze in Physics, the Einstein Award in 1954, the E.O. Laurence Award, and a Nens Bohr International Gold Medal. Nuclear Weapons Expert to Visit Next Week Spaco An electron moves through space arid time, emits a photon (y-ray) and r-ecoils at an angle. This is a means f.or .accounting for possible particle transformation. PHYSICS COLLOQUIM ThUrsday in Steinmetz 106 4:30 Refreshments 4.:45 Lecture Feb. 18: Robert Neff Suffern High School, NY Talk to the men who know how. If you're interested in nuclear energy, Physicist Dr. Richard Ga~ ~ a good person to talk to. Dr. Garwin will be the George Kistiilkowsky Visiting Scholar at Union February 24 and 25. The portfolio of Dr. Garwin's accomplishments is duite impressive. He has contributed to the design of nuclear weapons, testified before many Congressional Corrunittees on national security, published over 200 papers and contributed to numerous books, and has l>een gra11ted 33 U.S. patents. Dr. Garwin's work for the government has included a variety of studies on topics such as: antisubmarine warfare, new technologies in health care, and in military and civil air· ~Craft. These studies involve an effort to improve these systems as well .as assessing existing capabilities. While at Union, Dr. Garwin will be involved in several activities. Students and faculty are invited to attend his lecture during Pr~fessor Shanebrook's \Nuclear Technology\ class on Wednesday at 10:15 in the Science and Engineering Building room NW116. The highlight of Dr. Garwin's visit could be his talk on \I.N.F. and the Future of Nuclear Weapons.\ Dr. Garwin is an engaging speaker who likes audience reaction in the question period. This discusion will be held in the Old Chapel at Bpm on Wednesday.Dr. Gar· Win's final appearance will be at the Physics Colloquium on Thursday at 4:30 where he will discuss \Physics in Star Wars and in Industry.\ The Physics Department is conducting a reappointment review for Professors Lazslo Baksay and Richard Magahiz. Persons wishing to contribute oral or written testin1ony regarding Professor Magahiz. or Professor Baksay's reappointment are encouraged to contact Professor David Peak, Chair, Physics Department.

. I Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, Ji'ebruary 18, 1988 ~RTS. & FILMS By ANNETTE FRASER Shades of Grey was brought t() Union College campus last week by a travelling troupe of Mountebanks. By taking the show on the road we hoped to reach those who would not normally respond to a Moun- tebanks' advertising campaign. Judging by the diversity of the audience we succeeded. The aim was to provoke audience reactions to certain socially FILM COMMITTEE MEETING When: February 23 at 4:30 Where: Room 410 · College Center ; ' Topic: Select the films .for next semester All Are Welcome Shades of Grey relevant issues- discrimination, doing. We were proud to see we, as a group, had united and date rape, money, AIDS- heavy that peoptedid want to ~e our become stronger for that, stuff! Fortunately, the audience kind of t~et:ltre, that th~y did . 'lbe shades of grey in all the found the show interesting want to tln~k about such 1ssues, ISsues shown could .bave been enough to stay once they that they did want to talk about helped by tal'kmg. The discovered this was the aim. them seriously. discussion$ m the issues after We, as actors, learned so much about our own attitudes towards the issues during rehearsals and we wanted the audiences to gain also. As a group we were WlSure of the response to the show but felt that it was something worth Sometimes talking, not the show were enlightening, chatting or conversati()nJ but totally opposing viewpoints really talking is hard. Social were expressed and conflict etiquette, embarrassment and was shown, but we all learned fear preven~ us from com· about each other's feelings on municatinjg our fellings the matters. An intense level of honestly. Ollr interaction is commWlication an an open clouded by .a sense of ignorance sharing of opinions was entered of·other's o]Jinions. By talking, into. · At Proctors' . 0 • Big River By A.G. As is common knowledge, Schenectady winters can be pretty dull. But no longer! In search of mild entertainment this past Thursday night, we ventured to Proctor's Theatre to relive our childhood. slave, rliillling away fr()m his owner. Huclk volunteers to help Jim reach \free territory\ in the North. Tile rest of tile story recounts Huck and Jim's travels doiNn the Mississippi River, and the people whom they encoliiJter as they seek freedom for Jim. Perhaps if more members of the faculty and administration had manag~d to attend the performances, some .of ·their communications problems might bave been solved. Criticism of the student body might also have been stemmed - we care; · and given an op- pOrtunity we show that. We as a group thank the audiences for sharing their thoughts with us and. we .hopethat they gained as much from the performances as we did. Big River was the spectaCle of the evening. The musical, which is based on Mark Twain's novel The Adventures of Huckle berry Finn, is a lively and witty story which recounts Huckleberry The C!aSi: is led by actor Romain Fruge, who portrays Huck Fin!h. Fruge also ap- peared a~ Huck in the Broad- way pr()du&Ct:ion of Big River, which is not surprising after his outstandimg performance on Thursday night. his voice though s01ft and melodious, superbly .. complimented the strong and poWerful voice of Michael Eldward Stevens, who played Jim. Stevens' ere den- The cast of Big River Finn's escapades. The production begins with Huckleberry's capers with his friends, namely Tom Sawyer, while living at his aWlt's home. One antic leads Huck to ac- cidently discover Jim, a black tials, which are equally as relief and laughter kept the. impressive as those of Fruge, moed of the play upbeat. From include winning a prize at the beginning to end, Big River was Cannes Fi.lm Festival. a joy to watch. So, if you have the Winter Term Blues, or are Though the play was often looking .for something new to d(), dramatic and serious, comic head to Proctor's. TONIGHT WRUC THE. NEW 8.97 ·MOUNTEBANKS CABARET !O:OOPM AN EVENT NOT TO BE MISSED \ . \--- ~/ '. ~ \ \ J c F\UC 0 ' I / Commercialism sneaks into the countdown this week with 2 money motivated, synthetic, top 40- potential albums. Hoepfully the embarassment will wear off soon and next week we'll be back providimg 100% altemtive music. fosjtion Band Album L~be! 1 The Conunun:uds Red MCA. 2 Robyn HltchcOO. Globe ofFrogs A&M 3 Camper Van Beethoven Vampire Can Mating Oven Pitch-A-Tent 4 It's Raining Awaken at Twilight Certain 5 Beatnik Beatcll At The Zula. Pool Industrial 6 Erawure The Two Rmg Circus Sire 7 Sinead O'Connor The Lion & The Cobra Chrysalis 8 The Nils The Nils Rock Hotel 8.97 Wild Seeds Mud, Lies & Shame Passport TQP ADDS Pajama Slave Dancers., Balaam & The Angel, Slammin' Watusis ADVF .. NTURE PICKS, Ryuichi Sakamoto, Tlmnder Before Dawn, Pajama Slave Oancers PROGRAMMING .NOTES Round two of TRIVIA continues this week. It's never too late to start playing. Just tune in this Sunday at 8:00 p.oo. Then thrash your brains out with Heavy Metal From Hell after Trivia. Only on 8.97 EXHIBITION OF STUDENT WORK FROM DRAWING I c;lisplayed thro.ugh · February in Atrium of Arts:l3uilding. ******************* * * !PRIZES FOR POETS! ******************* Deadline March 30 (Ask about it rn Humanities 210). FRESHMAN WRITERS The Van Orden Prize is for YOU (Find Out More In Humanities 210) ~------------------~--------------------~ ! '

CONCQRDIENSIS, Februar·y 18, 1988 Page 17 By JIM MACLAUGHLIN Arts Editor She's Having a ;Baby Directed by John Hughes Starring Kevin Bacon and Elizabeth McGovern RatedPG-13 For most people, th~ mere mention that a particular film is a ''John Hughes\ fihn will elicit straining groans from deep within the soul. Such is the case with this latest release, She's Having a Baby, which oddly, is one of his be.st works. Taken from his own autobiographical experiences, Hughes delivers one of his most human pieces of cinema. The movie concerns a topic which is looming in the not-so- distant future to most college students, the first steps into that inevitable cliche, the \real world.\ Kevin Bacon stars as a recent college graduate who quickly marries his girlfriend, played by Elizabeth McGovern. Bacon, as the Hughes stand-in; must deal with the fact that dream sequences that flash before his eyes are,in actuality, his life. The movie follows his progress from finding a job as an ad-exec, buying a home in the suburbs, and lastly: becoming a parent. While going through all of the motions of adulthood, Bacon can't.help but feel some sorrow and longing . for his playful youth, which he witnesses slipping away with each progressing step of responsibility. His mind suffers a whirl of emotions, none of which are aided by the con- stantly appearing nubile temptresses, or the goading of his wild bachelor friend W!ten Bacon finally declares Jim an·d Buddy at The Movies himself domesticized, stal~ing his claim as a full fledged, bona- fide member of the eternal \neighborhood his wife decides it is time they had a chtld. Thus, opening a whole new area -of fear and transition for Bacon. Hughes gives pregnancy and pre-parenting a frank edge, yet is not afraid to tinge it with some of his unique humor. The couple is viewed going through the· various unpretty stages of try;ing to spawn an offspring, i.e.; low sperm count, exact time of optimim fertility, natural childbirth, and delivery com- plications. Through an· of the trials, Hughes does net let the viewer lose it's sense of laughter, tucking in fantasy segments, or oddly appropriate music, (such as Sam Cooke's \Chain Gang\ during an uaromantie mating scene). As the yollllg couple, Bacon aad McGovern do well in reflecting the realm of emotions needed. Baccm shows a flair for the quick Gleasonesque \double take,\ while McGovern is quietly comical. The trademark Hughes dream sequences; like e11visioning suburbia as a ritualistic dance of husbands .pushing lawnmowers, while the wives chase them with lemonade, along with his better gt\asp of soundtrack, give the picture a fine satirical bend. ~n all, Site'§ Having a Baby Js perhaps Hughes' best work to date. He skips the cliches and forced proflllldity of his earlier movies, allowing the actors and the camera to provide the memorable images. Howe~er, the movie was not without soi:ne dry spots that caused it to seem a little toolong. FILM GRADE: B-/B Crossgates Mall Cinema Fri. & Sat. ONLY 1 Broadcast News 12:40, 3:25, 6:50, 9:50 12:25 2 Three Men & a Baby 1 :50, 4:20, 7:35, 10:05 12:10 3 The Last Emperor 12:00, 3:20,6:25, 10:10 4 Ironweed 12:20, 3:30, 6:30., 9:55 12:30. 5 Satisfaction 2:10,4:45,7:50, 10:20 12:25 6 Moonstruck 1:55,4:30,7:15, 10:30 12:30 7 Cry Freedom 12~10, 3:15,6:45, \10 ;25 8 Shoot to Kill 1 :ZO, 4:10, 7:00, 9:45 12:00 9 -Serpent & The Rainbow 1 :30, 4:05, 6:55, 9:30 11:45 10 Good Morning Vietnam 12:30, 3:25, 6:40, 9:40 11:50 11 Action Jackson 12:45, 3:401 6:35, 9:05 11:30 12 She's Having Baby 1 :DO, 3:35, 6:15, 8:50 11:00 · Anothe:r WRUC (89.,7) Record Review Slammin' Watusis. on Epic Record By JOHNS. MORGAN After giving this platter a spi.n, it is difficult to imagine a listener whose body and mind will not be envigorated by the Slammin' Watusis' self~titled debut album. The Watusis simultaneously induce a foot- tapping, hip-h()pping and urgent thrashing while expanding vocabularies of· the uninformed - this record defines \sch- wailing!\ The Watusis manage to blend arch-punk screeching guitars with scattered saxophones on 13 original rockers. \Won't Sell Out;' abounds with the energy of hardcore, hut makes prominent use of the saxophone to make it more palatable to a diverse listening audience.\ It Just Ain't Right\~ \U Want It, U Got It\ a11d ''Some Sex\ are energetic and complete, while occupying less than three minutes of one's time. The Slammin' Watusis' ability to combine hardcore influences with stripped down rock 'n roll, may well enable them to bring an even less respected new music genre to many more thirsty ears for alternative sounds. WRUC TRIVIA Continues ·'.c t~~S Su.:nday Persephone Persephone was never alone; she could always find comfort in water's vision or the burning hounds who nestled at her side. There was one time in the olive mist of the saltless years, when she betrayed the embrace of the hunt . and would not pull steel from her sheath, and the world ceased to call and the mud gave way and the cries of the hounds gathered in violent yearning and towered high above vision rising with all the force of night and tumbled down splashing yelps spitting bays engulfing all that was. not black leaving euphoria in darkness. -Cevln Soling = ARTS & FILM:S . Co,ncert Review: Dancing, Screanting and Sweating with the BoDeans By DAVE GULLIVER Editor-in-Chief Sammy Llanas, lead .singer for the Bo Deans, took it to the crowd last Wednesday night-literally. \Do you have enough sec11rity working tonight to keep 'em off the stage?'' lead singer Sammy Llanas asked Union's Concert Committee staff before the Bo Deans Feb. 10 show in Memorial Chapel. \We ust~ally let people up on the stage to dance, but we want enough space, too,\ he added. his U2 albums, as he led into tile opener with an intro soundin .1 like The Edge's quick str~ rning with a bar band slant. Llanas shone with his acoustic guitar on several numbers as well, and bassis: Bob Griffin and drummer Guy Hoffman laid down a fast heavy beat one would expect from a band that's been .playing in ba1s and practicing in garages for years. Susan Julian on keyboards, when not over· whelmed by guitars and bass, added tothe sound. The . heavier beat and .QLf)~~ The Wisconsin-based BoDeans The Bo Deans electrified the stronger sound is new, a touch usually passive Union College added by their new producer, crowd-by the third song, most Jerry Harrison of the Talking of the 350 people in the audience Heads. Their first album, Love bad crowded around the .stage. and Hope and Sex and Dreams, .But that apparently, wasn't was produced by T-Bone close enough for Llanas; or l~ad Bumetf and ·featured a leaner guitarist Kurt \Beau\ sound. Neumann. Llanas lept into the One of the bigger crowd· crowd and. sang from atop the pleasers, \69 Blues,\ is not 011 third row pews, and Neumann, either of their albums, bllt who had looked for an ex:tra- Llanas told the crowd that thE long guitar cord before the next album might include their show, scampered all the way old favorites like that one. 'I'he back to the Chapel's lobby on Bo Deans wrapped up their set another tune. with the two hottest songs on the The Bo Deans are a Wisconsin new album, \It's Only Love\ band, who do what Boston's Del and ''Say About Love,\ and Fuegos and the Georgia returned for two encores, Satellites do-even better. The finishing with The Ramones \I Los Angeles Times called them WannaBe Sedated.'' \one of the best new American Where to now? The Bo Deans bands ... they play with raw are said to be off for a date on convincing edge that makes you Saturday Night Live and then re~lize bow good rock can be.\ fer a tour of Europe. Then They opened with \Dreams\ CJff they'll come back, as did tile their new album \Outside Georgia Satellites, with f.Very Looking In\ and jammed for label after them to sign. And nearly two hours. Guitarist last Wednesday's crowd will Neumann has been listening to say, \Isawthemwhen. \ THIS WEEK'S ON-CAMPUS MOVI,ES NOWAY OUT FEB. 19-21 FRI.• SUN. 7,9,11 KEVIN COSTNER AND GENE HACKMAN. Costner is Lt. Commander Tom Farrell who has just arrived on staff at the Pentagon. He's given 48 hours to find and silence to a brutal crime that must be covered up. Only Farrell knows that the witness that he is looking for is himself! PORN MOVIE FEB. 24 WED. 7,9,11. TO BE ANNOUNCED All showing at the CC Aud. All Tickets are $1 with Student ID No Food or Beverage allowed.

Page 18 CONCORDIENSJS, February 18, 1988 Have Yourself Or A Friend ProfessionaUy Tucked Into Bed For Just One Dollar Purchase by FRIDAY (dinnertime) at West or the College Center GREAT DECISIONS 1988 Sponsored by the Foreign Policy Association, the series features one discussion per week on an important issue of American Foreign policy. Fdl1owing the discussion, participants mark their ballots in an opinion survey to be tabulated and released nationally. Brief backgr<Jund analyses of all the issues will be available al he first session, which will beheld at 7:30pm Tuesday, January 19, ill the Milano Lounge of Hale house: Feb. 23- U.S. Trade and Global Markets: Risks and Opportunities How to be more compettive. Milano Lounge: Rale Rouse For further inf4lrmation call Dave Cope at 3 72-3566 or David Clinton at 37-6069 CDC INTERNSHIP NEWS Residential Opportunities, Inc. is a Capital District agency that operates group homes for adults with developmental disabilities. CurrenHy R.O.I. has a number of openings for part- time Resident Counselors as well as other internship- orientated opportllnities. For more information, contact the CDC. P&C Food Markets, a supermarket chain operating in five North Eastern States, is announcing the availability of various internships within their operation. More information is available upon request at the CDC. The Connelly Dir.ectory, a New York City based firm is offering many internship opportunities in the sales, publishing, and marketing fields. For more .information, contact the CDC. The Asian American Legal Defense· and Education Fund is sponsoring a Summer Internship Program designed to provide students with practical legal experience and encourage them . to serve the Asian American Community. For more information, contact the CDC. The YWCA in Schenectady is offer-ing internships available to those students interested in tutoring individuals for their high school equivalency exams. More information is available upon request at the CDC. SUMMER JOBS Union College's Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs (5) peer tutor counselors for its 6th Summer Program July 3 to August 15,1988 RESPONSIBILITIES: •Attend Summer Program Orientation session •Tutor in assigr:Jed subject area •Provide personal,. social and academic counseling •Assist students with orientation to Union •Assist the residence staff· •Participate In all required staff meetings •Submit weekly reports and final evaluations •Assist in compilation of student and tutor-counselor final evaluations •Make counseling referrals to appropriate personnel •Par.ticiapte in social, cultural, and recreational activities •Perform other duties as assigned by the Director, Assistant Director and Summer Program Staff QUALIFICATIONS: •Upperclass person or graduate as of June •Capable of tutoring in one of the following ar.eas Chemistry, English/Study Skills, Math (Mathematical analysis & Basic Math) ·Minimum 2;0 cumulative index •Minimum 3,0 1n subject area you will tutor Applications now a\allable and lnterviws being arranged in the ACP Office, Bailey Hall, ROCim 101, For More Information contact Ira Bethea at 370.S115. A.ppllcatlon Deadline: March 11,1988 IS&aE . Jhe Hair Studio ·374-0351 557 Nott St. Hair and Tanning Studio PERM SPECIAL $40.00 WITH FREE MANICURE Unisex. Walk-Ins Welcome TANNU\'G 1·00 Visits For $79.00 NAIL TI.PS Regularly $45.00 Now $29.95 TANNING CAN BE SHARED BY TWO PEOPLE DUTCH HOLLOW ·RESTAURANT Be Part Of The Olympic Spirit The Great Union Colle.ge Fozze Ball Tournament is back by Popular\ Request. Now Available at the Rathskellar and College Center for · your enjoyment. See our full ad next week for details and registration forms.

.CONCORDIEN~IS, Februar.y 18, 1Y88 Page 19 CLUB NEWS Video . Evening~Monday, February 22 at 7 p.m. in Room 410 of the College Center the Newman Club Will sponsor a Video evening. Fihn to be an- nounced. Shut-Ins-Any Union College student who wishes to visit a shut-in of St. John's parish regularly during these winter months is asked to contact Sr, .Joan's sister, Gerri Borne at 372-3381. Tutorial Program-Union students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten Aides, Library Aides, anc:l Math ,and Reading on a one to one. Please contact Kristin Nelson (386- 4364). CIASSIFIEDS\\ . Student clerical assistants ,needed for the week of March . 21-25 to work in Registrar's Office, clipping together ' registration packets, sorting student schedules and · delivering materials around on campus. Hc:mr~ are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Pay is minimum wage. Please contact Penny Adey in the Regi~trar's 'Office,. Whitaker House for further details. TYPINQ.--.;Done by Executive Secretary. Professional results. - $1.25- page. Call Judy at 399· 3383. 1 Folk Group---All singers and · musichms interested in being · part of the Music Ministry at the . 7:30 p.m. Liturg~ may meet . with Frian Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. HIRING! Federal government jobs in your area and overseas. Many immediate openings without waiting list or test. $15- 68,000. can (602) 838-mJ85. Female looking_ for off-campus housing spring terin. Please call 370-6972 or drop a note to Box 1092. Part-time position as Sales Representative for Schenectady ·· m&gazine. Work inSchenectady area. Commission only. Con- tact: Ju<ly Kinney, Marketing Director, 793-5963. Need $$$? Student security is looking for workers now. Call Now. Michele 377-7058 or Kevin 3704)826. Founders Day Convocation Union College Emergency Medical Assistance . Program All EMT' s, First Responders, Red Cross AFA, or anyone interested in becomin,g certified Please contact Darrin 346-4896 or Dave x6913 RESIDENT ADVISORS NEEDED Summer 1988 \The College Experience'' Applications are now being accepted for Resident · Advisors in Union's summer program for high school juniors and seniors, \The '• College Experience/' June 26- August 5. Salary includes · room, board, tuitioR waiver fot one course and stipend. Applications are due February 26. For further information and · a job description contact: Dr. Kenneth Blume Graduate Studies· Wells House X 6674 .. Thursday, Febntary 2 5 Memorial Chapel 11:00 a.m. A program to commemorate the 193rd anniversary of the granting of the College charter. ffij(B~9 fe\\1, I HA1~ rt6~. Gef HeR (XIfVr H~· SHe 5 Be-eN 13~oU6HT · UP Llvl~\6 vv/1}/ · Ct llkt£ S7UV€ Nro: JV51 L£1 Hf?R RurJ A Ra UN 0 of.· Study Abroad ITHACA COLLEGE LONDON CENTER • SEMESfER. OR YEAR PROGRAM n ITI~ACA COLLEGE CREDIT Visits to the theatre, museums, galleries, schools, soGial and political institutions are · an integral part of the curriculum. • BRITISH FACULTY COURSES - British and European studies are offerocl in literature, history, art history, drama, music, sociology, education, psychology, oommunications, and politics. Spacial prog111m offered In theatre. lnlem- llhlpa IVIIIable to qllllllllecl atudenll Ira lntemallonal I:UIMM. IOCIII aervlces, cornmlll'ik:all-. .political Klence, .conomlct md tllealre. NAME PHONE SCHOOl. FOI' furtlw lnfonnlllon writ. or Clll: International Programs Ithaca College Ithaca, New York 14850 607-274-3306 ADDRESS. YEAR Return to: ()fflce of International Programs, Muller218, lthacaCollege,llhaca, NY 14850 Presentation of Honorary Degree Stanley H. Hoffmann Douglas Dillion Professor of the Civilization of France Harvard University Address: The Future. of U.S. Foreign Policy Yw'll.t 8JT To [10!11 11 Sh1 's Plftrrv orr-e. '{e ftH. SH-e IS. J HA-H~-- UXJ~ ( S+f€ 's M \S1A~ING You{( fbV10tJ FoR A w-ee--- w e.e TAT) I Hf\~~A I

Page 20 CONCORDJENSIS, YelJruary 18, 1988 PERSONALS · Colleen? I'd never forget! l . Happy Happy 22nd birthday! Ich vermisse dich! ! ---------------- ' Love always, Julie Vick, Jaimie, Ellen, and Kristan- Missa, Beck, Ann Gretchen Chris, Kristen, Reza, Marnie, and Tim all thank you very much for the use of your suite. Maghan You're the greatest! Look forward to a great formal!.! Your Big Sis Blusher- ! hope my \suggestions\ came in handy, although I was just kidding. Have fun tomorrow night. -MAD Mr. Politics, You are a senior_, and I love you. NYHUS: Sorry I haven't written. I miss you and your broken trunk. Winter term isn't the same without you. -from a caring dude. NYHU8- Happy Birthday- Sorry we can't steal some tiles .... from both of us. Mark Trudeau-! hope you liked your flower. Good luck in D.C. Steph- Live in bliss! Bath ot bust ... Mercutio--- Alrighty-roo-and Tiger too? S&T Geppetto's-Six o'clock tomorrow! Don't forget Rob, or else yournosemight grow long. -just two good friends of Pinocchio Pam & Robin Here's your personal. Are yoa happy now? Love, Dave Una & Matt Let's hear it for Dong the Nasty. Lin a, You're just not a morning person!! Love, Dave Hilary, When are you going to get Melissa fi:!'ed. · Dave Michele V .P: You are my eternal idol. Hello Is Rol>in there? AAAGGGHHH! I still love you Gwen Love, Dave Does anyone else write per- . :sonals?!? DG sisters tCJ be, You all lo()ked mahvelous in yoar sailor hats. Get inspired! ! ! 'TLMO~Tha11ks for an awesome time at the formal! It was the best! And hey, don't worry, I don't mind not being the \first lady'' any morel! Ha! Ha! Love, M. Copa & Vuls The time has come. Let the · fun begin. R last week~ do you think she got a little carried away? Howie!-Happy 2oth! You're getting old-I see grey hairs and a receding hairline (just kidding!)! Enjoy! Leslie Pat- You'rE ~ super addition to the pledge class. WE're all looking forward to the times . ahead. Love~ the pledges and sisters of Gamma Phi Pledge Char lap~ Lame! Lame! Lame! The only dateless pledge. -fellow pledges Val, Watch out for those late Monday nights. You never know what disrep-uta bles you might run into. Don't forget dinner this week. Love, Sue Congrats Char--You've made SDT history! ! ! ! Beta Pledge Class - get psyched for tonight and the weekend but remember <!lll'iosity killed the cat. Love in G-Phi-B. BLOOM COUNTY ~!&fl ... _.Jon-No hangover and no hat l · I'd call it a mellow wkend. (or sober in my case:). At least you ice skate better than GovvJ Matt, I've come to wish you an unhappy b-day 'cause you're evil and you lie! And if you should die, I may feel slightly sad but I won't cry· the Smiths- I'm still a day old:er - the blond b-ch! Rich, Brad & Marc Hello! McFly! 0&0 Lin a Want a piece C)f the wall? What?? Who's up to bat? We're only halfway tllere. Huh?? Men's room anyolle ... anyone? 5 moremiriutes, he's getting sick. Size 10! but I w:e~r a 5lf2. Hope you had a great time! M&R Happy Birthday to Ian! Happy Birhtdayt().lan! - Happy Birthday Dear Ian~ llappy Birthday to you! CongratulatilJ.ns Tricia Feeney!! R.A. of the month 3 time winner To the other great editor- Thanks for the \sweet\ Valentine's Day- message. · r.eed Michele, I'm glad we talked! Happy 19th Honey! Love, thE Vampire · Sue, Lunch soon? I hope so! Don't forget late nite A--! Ha! Love, Val Tina, No pain, no galn! I hope it's worth it! Love, Val It's not easy being cheesy! My first published personal to the best roomie ever- This is Hi! Since I haven'tseen you in days. -Sebbave To Gail & Elissa & every other student who got into Grad School. Contratl.ilations! ! Love, M Gina-Thanks for putting togetber a wonderful fonnal. We all had a super time. Love in G-Phi•B . To CT, AR, ER and Welp, Alex~ You guys are the sweetest on V Day. Than~, Love· · Marj To Mrs. Lieberman,. I am looking forward to your son's little hot-dog h'oeuvres at the bar Mitzvah.' Holy Mansiah! Get psyched to watch the crew team row the ERG chanenge · · this wkend at Carnegie! · (Beginning tomorrow at 12:30}. 4 weeks, and 4 days 'til Acapulco!! Gina-You did. a fantastic job on the formaH Thanks! ! Don- J love you! ! Guess who? Jon-No hangover and No hat; I'd call it a mellow wkend. (or sober in my case). At least you ice skate better than Goff! Mike, I'm glad to see you! I've missed ya. (Believe it or not! ) Love, Lisa F\'Man: Thanks for making the past seven weeks bearable. You're still No. 1, and I'm No. ? .... SR- You gave me all those personals to put in, but none were for me! Thanks ! -LM To all those persons who helped me foil the 'stolen ski syn- drome.' Thank you mucho. Katrina Jane- Happy owner of new skis, bindings and rack. 2000 lbs. fresh cut ••grass\ seized at border UNION COLLEGE OASIS-sCHENE- CTADY SCHUM LINES. Send self-addressed stamped en- velopt\to \CRIME SOLVERS\ if you have info. green grass is reward. Crow, Red, Ninja- Happy 21st! Thank 'Oh God' you caught up. We can destroy brain cells at same rate. Not /JIIY YPVI? CHIJC.OI.Art\ · OK VIINit.LA IJWN rllts;- Rr'FIIN/ . I I that -it was holding you oock.) Vel, S~one, !?res, Deb. Little Lina-I know you've been a good little pledge lately, but the answer still has to be NO! - Killer Bruce-Dinner (Chinese!) · Some time this week?! -Leslie Andrew, OOP! You lucked out! No exclamation point on formal night. Andrew, Me & Yoll, Leslie. Howie will rage! L \ ... A prop to. occupy my time ... \ (isn't that always the case?) To someone with a cowlick, We all know Who's NOT queen around here. and the tally for this week is, .. ( drumroll, please). Lungs are susceptible- to can- cer, the malignant kind, you know! The newest natil;mal holiday- Lager Me Legal-Happy Bir- thday Lisa and Chrissy. Love, the herd Rat- No lasagna trails for you this year. What a shame! Beth- Happy Birthday! I hope you have a great day. Love, your little sister, Wendy To Robin, and especially Virge, sorry about the cake! Will you ever forgive me? Rich, Just remember ... who lov~s you baby? -Lina Babs, Too much of a 'prom scene' huh?!? Lina To my Mel, sorry this is a week late. Keep listening to Urethra. I love yo11, sis! 2ndpooky Sawa, You have the cutest lit- tle.~.but ()nly in Spanish- Dave (Babs) Thanks for an amazing time ! (and the roses) Lin a Li~, Joan and David outlet? What? Where? You shoe throat Lina Matthew & Dave & Leigh, Do in' the nasty?! Love, Lina Hey, Sweeney! Can't wait for the next patch and Kayla scene d I .Lik I on ays .• e your car. A Phi Delta Theta pledge To my Little SiS StillJiian- 2 days late, but happy birthday anyway. I LOVE YOU! Pr·ivate Physics Tutoring Stuart Pratt· 377-64l5 Tony Vrondissis 370-6831 GROUP RATES AVAILABLE. Physics Tutoring For Aop Students tvi.W. TH 7-10 p~m. Humn 014

a ! 2 _e , CONCORJJIENSIS, Fellrua.ry 18, 1988 Page 21 Who is th~e MEGA-BELLY? Annou:nclng th/e first an~nual Union College lntermoral Pi~zza E.atlng Contest! · . P:ICK YQU:R CHAM:PION· A·ND PUT HlM OR HER. AGAINST THE· REST. ALL GREEK ORGAN:IZATlONS :INVITED. · Thursday evening. February 18th. 8 p.m. DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT Come Cheer On Your Favorite MEGA-BELL YH TH·E p:RlZ~: a month's fre:e :p~izza Compltments of Food Service. See posting of rules in D HR Si at the Dutch Hoilow Restaurant Now! ''Mom says the _ house just istit the same \\Vithout me, even though its alotcleaner.'' , \ KINGS I& QUEENS UNISEX SALON PHONE: , ..... ~4 ~II!_, 2147DROADWAY '1T7-2077 ~ • IICitEflECTADY, N.Y • Colleen Capitummino T:HE DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT • • IS now accepting applica,tions for part-tme employment. · All shifts available. . Apply in person Dutch Hollow Restaurant 9-5 just because your Mom is far away, doesn't mean you can't be dose. You can s~ill share the love and laughter on AT&T Long Distance Sel'vice. It costs less than you thinkto hear that she likes the peace and quiet, but shernisses you. So go ahetld, give your Mom a . . . . R~apppintment :·:' Re\Hew .·· .. · 1· .. · :-: ,.·.':.· .. ·· .. ··•·· .. · .. :_ S¢1:J.affer Librazy· is · . now,$oli¢itirig re:-: commendations rela ... tive_ to.t]1,e .f{~~ppoint­ ment Review,for In-' structorDonnil. Bur- ton, Govern:rhent Documents Librarian. All interested students, Fa- culty, and staff are encouraged to· · contact Ann Seeman':,:/ Librarian at 6277 ~ ..... First Responder Course belng offered spring term REGISTRATION AT: WELLS HOUSE Non-credit c-ourse Office Deadline March 14th Monday nights: 7:00-10:00 p.m . ·THE TYPING PLACE · •Professionai•Experienced •Timely THE PLACE TO TAKE ALL YOUR . TYPING NEEDS . call. You can clean your 399-09·80 • room later. Reach out and touch_someone~ ; ATiaT The right choice. STATE OF THE ART EQUIPMENT 10% DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD! DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1517 Van Vranken Ave !~~ ~If._..;, ' ~ .. -: •374-5193 :i. . • DRY CLEANING . 1 AND TAILORING

Pa~e 22 CONCOJ~[)JENSlS, February 18, 1988 Ry DAVID MORRISON Recently the Union Skating D11tchmen have been playing outstanding hockey with playoff mtensity. Their season could be l()oked at as the epitome of the say·ing, . \Better late than never.\ Starting out With a 1-5-1 reeord, the Dutchmen have C()rnpletely turned themselves around into the direction of a ~ssible ECAC playoff berth with a 7-2-1 record in their last 1(1 ()Utings. A major part of this t11r-naround is due to the out- standing play of sophomore goalie Ron Kinghorn, this week's \Athlete of the Week\. Einghorn is an Economics rne~jor from Windsor, Ont. He is a tall . second year vsrsity starter and snowed a lot of promise last year with a s..a ()Verall record with an 84.5 save J)ercentage. Last week Kinghorn <li.&played to all his talents in the t'f'Vine. He was out to prove not only his own abilities, but more importantly, that he would do all in his power to assure a cllance in the playoffs. Last 'rh11rsday against Hamilton IC.inghorn fought hard for the Athlete of the Week Ron Kinghorn taste of sweet revenge, after being picked apart late in the game against the Continentals earlier in the season. Kinghorn made many crucial saves and kept the score at 2-2 going into the third period, until teammate and cohort Guy Logan blasted in the tiebreaker, Kinghorn successfully held off the Con- tinentals in the stretch for the hard:..fought win. Later in the week against RIT Kinghorn would play almost nav.rlessly in net for the Dut- cbrnen. After starter Terry Ratb.well was shelled early in the game, and with the Dut- cbrnEn being down 3..;() so early in the first period coach Charlie M()rrlson decided to call upon Kinghorn. Kinghorn denied RIT everything up until late in the second, allowing his only goal of the game. Kinghorn would pr(}ve o11tstanding throughout reglllation. With the score tied at f()u.r, Kinghorn knew that the ree~l task was at hand. He re~lized that he would have to stop everything in overtime in order to get the win or tie. Kinlil:horn would rise to the oeeasion by playing \out of his heaci.\ He shut down an RIT overtime attack with a man dow11 for five minutes by making some incredible saves (seven). Ron saved 36 of 37 sllots and earned a tie, against highly ranked RIT. We extend our congratulations to Ron Kinghorn for his inspiring play. We wish Ron, the Skating J)utcbn1en and Coach Morrison suecess in the remainder of the season, and we hope to see them in the playoffs. . .. . Hoopsters improve record to 8-11 Dutchmen Sweep Weekend By MARK VAN BUREN During the past week, the U11ion College men's basketball tEam was involved in two more very close games. Friday night· t.lle Dutchmen bested Clarkson 58-65, and Saturday afternoon they turned right around and defeated St. Lawrence, ·n..v9. .Against Clarkson, Union opened up a quick 5-4 lead on a Joe Romer jumper, 2:28 into the game. The Golden Knights then 'WEilt on a lfHi run over the next eight and a half minutes to grab Cl 19-11 lead. The Dutchmen <:ould get no cloaser than this llrltil the final four minutes of 11le half when they pulled to within five points, 32-27, on a Dylan Kelley basket. However, Union would not get any closer than this f&r the rest of the period. The teams entered their lockerrooms at the intermission with Clarkson leading, 36-31. The second half began as the first half had ended. Clarkson maintained its lead and at the 1():48 mark, after Paul Brad- shaw's lay-up, the Golden Knights led, 56-47. Dylan Kelley's reoound basket cut the D11tchmen's deficit to 58-56, with 6:42 left to play. Kelley's two free throws 1:22 later tied the score atOO. At the 4:47 mark Kelley gave Union its first lead, since it led 5-4, 62-61 with two free throws. Joe Romer's lay-up with 3:12 to play put Union ahead 64-61. Clarkson scored then ext four points to go aheail, 65-64 with 0:53 remaining. Tom Beck scored the game's next. three points on free throws to put the Dutchmen ill the lead for good, 67-00. Joe Romer added one free throw with ():07 on the clock to close out the scoring. Dylan Kelley led the Dutchmen with 30 points and 14 rebounds . Joe Romer added 20 points for the victors .. The next day, Union jumped out to a11 early three point. lead, 11-8 after five and a half minutes of play. St. Lawrence battled back to tie tlle score at 16 apiece, 3:20 later. The Saints even managed to grab a quick lead, 22-20 on a Jon Goodemote field goal. The Dutcbmen came back and. event11ally took the lead, 26-24 on a Joe ROmer basket at tile 3:36 mark. From here, tile two teams traded hoops until the intermission. The Dutchmen took a 32;30 advantage into the lockerroom at halftime. Union upped its lead to 42-39 after 6:25 had elapsed in the second llalf. St. Lawrence went ahead 4~-48 three minutes later. The Dutchmen then went on a 9- 3 run to go ahead~ 57~2 with 8 ~57 left in the game. At the 5:45 mark, St. Lawrence took a 60-56 lead 011 Jeff Dinse's lay-up. Mark 'l'rudea11. upped Union's margin to three points, 67-64 when he hit a lay-tlp with 2:59 rEll1aining. Joe Romer's 12-foot jll!Ilper with 0:38 showing on the clod~ put Union ahead, 69-66. St. La'WI'ence tied the game 0:11 lateJ:\ on Tom Herhusky's three- j)Oint field goal. This set the stage for Doug Gregory's last second heroics. Gregory canned a S•foot turn-around jwnper as thle ran out to give Union its 3th victory. Joe Romer paced the Dutchmen attack with 21 po'lnts. Dylan Kelley added 20 pofuts and 8 rebounds, while Do11g Gregory and M~rk 'l'r-udeau chipped in with 11 p~ints apiece. Gregory also added 8 rebounds. Dutchmen Notes..... The D11tchmen's next and final borne game of the season is .Saturday, Feb .. 20 at 8:00 vs. Nazareth..... Pri-or to 1ast night's game vs. Elmira, Union o\Vned a record of 8 wins and 11 }()sses ..... 14 of the. Dutchmen's 19 decisions have been decided by 9 points or less; 10 of these g~mes have been decided by 5 J>()ints or less. Union is 4-6 in snch games ..... Dylan Kelley is leading Union in scoring, averaging 19.8 ppg. Joe Romer is second with 19.1 ppg average ..... Kelley is also leading the team in rebounding with an 8.2 rpg average. Romer and Doug Gregory are each averaging 5.8 rpg..... Romer and Kelley are combining for 51 .percent of Union'stotal offense - 740 ollt of 1,448 .points. Union Crew's own ERG Challenge Com1ng Feb. 19th aLnncnrbttnsis · · SPORTS Women's Track Exce'l-erates; Wins lnvtitational For First Time in Six Years By WOMEN'S TltACJC['gAM The track team hosted' the 7th annual Union ~c:n'llen'S Invitational one w~e k ago yesterday. Avenging sillt years of consecutive losses tiil this particular meet, the tn·eksters emerged triumphant. In ~.field of competitive tea~m s,. the closest contender was llaarnilton Who was behind by a h~~e gap of 21 points. . · As. usual, Lorie ..Am~rson displayed her versatility by placing well in three():ftlte four events she entered. In o11e of these events, she defema:led and retained her title as tr]ptle jump champion. Stephanie \Vro()dard although fouling on ,(! record breaking throw in the ,sJJ.IDt put, ·still ·finished strongl~ v;vith a . second place heave or to~82m. Terri Thomas, shoVILnfl her extraordinary skills in 1t!Ie l,1i~h jump, 50m hur.dles, ~mit :200m dash, was the high scouer- in the meet, as she won am three events. Union track wins Women's In vitationaa.l for . first time in 6 ye-:an:s. In the 800m run, .Jen Lee smoked her competito•rs while breaking the school · reeord by an incredible 6 secon<ls with a time of 2:21.1. In tbe relay events, both .the 1-m1Le and 2- mile relays gutted tl:teir .way to solid second place :fblh&iles. Strong performanc-es were ' also turned in by J.em Regan, Eileen Brady, Meg Pa.rsons, Claire Ginsberg-L~le, Sherri Cargile, Denise XcJ\Iillan, Roslyn Morse, Mari~ L.e()nard, and Lynette Neilsen. In a second meet hEld this past Saturday the women tracksters again turned in some exceptional performances. Starting the team off on the right foot, Stephanie Woodard finished the shot put with a fl~t place honor. After enduring weeks of strictly water training because of knee injuries, Eileen Brady came alive with an outstanding performance in the 1500m run with a time of 5:07. Lynette Neilsen broke her own personal record with a second place finish in the 3000m run with a time of 11:33.7. Sl<lerri Cargile left her Qp- ponents in her wake as she ran to a first place finish in the 1000m run. Her time of 3:21 was 7 seconds faster than her best so far this season. Maria Leonard placed second in the 800m run with a time of 2:45. The 400m run was an exciting and close race as Union swept the top three places. Terri Thomas led the contingent with a victory and a time of 64.6. Completing the sweep were Denise McMillan and Meg Parsons with times of 65.5 and 65.6 respectively. Thomas came through with two more victories as she won both the high jump and 55m hurdles. Parsons and McMillan were joined by teammate Roslyn Morse in the 55m dash as they took the 3rd, 4th, and 5th positions. Jen Lee ran strong to bring home a victory in the 600m run with a time of 1:42. The last event of the dilY - the mile .relay con- sisting of McMillan, Claire Ginsberg-Lytle, Parsons, and Lee won easily With a time of 4:26. The women travel to West Point this weekend for their last meet before the upcoming New York State ChaJ:npionship meet. Union Hosts T AC Championships On Saturday, true Union College track teams b()sted the On the Road ~ ..A!dl'ondack Athletics Congre.ss (OTR- ATAC} indvor chamJ)Lomships at Memorial Field House. Altbougll no team sc:ores were . kept, teams came firt»ID aro.und the capital district ar.d. from as far south as New ~oerk City to participate. ' Those three latel' teamed up with freshm~n Allen to run their fas tesi 4\440 relay of 11ne year. The individual ne~tu:re of the meet on Saturday provided Union's athletes ~lith an op- portunity to experi!!Tient with different events and.tediniques. However, despite tbis more relaxed atmoSphel.\e several of · Union's competit01rs llad out- standing . days. CaJJtain Chip Silver tmned in x:~n.e of the · Dutchmen's top pEr-formanpes, as he placed in tllrlle different events. Silver WCJm the high jump, clearing 6 fEet,. 2 inches, toolt second in tille 1)0 meter hurdles, . and leapetl U feet 5% iriches to finish fiftlaln the long · jump. Also pic~ing lip a vict'?ry . for Union was sophll()oi.cre Mike Trernante. Trema!lte had the best triple jump Qi liis career and qualified for the ~ate meet, as he cov:ered 43 feet 5 inches with his hop, step, and jump. Senio~.\ Bill Craig scored twice for :Union, placing second in the 50 meter dash (6.1 seconds) and fourth in the long junip (19 feet, 8¥4 inches). In another demonstration of the depth of Union's rookie team, freshmen Bob Lindyberg, Zack Gobel, and Mike Martinez finished only 3-lOths of a second apart taking second, third, and fourth, respectively, in the 500 meter dash. Those three later teamed up with freshman WUl Allen to run their fastest 4x440 relay of the year, 3:30.5 which Qlaced them only half a second oehind winning SUNY Albany. Another freshman, Doug Martocci, ran his fastest 800 meters.. of the season to finish third with his time of 2:07.9. Finally, and in perhaps the fastest race of the day, Senicr Jim. LeBron ran a 4:00 1500 meter race, placing third in that event and missing the qualifying standard for that event by only 0.4 seconds. This weekend will be Union's first away meet in four Weeks. The Dutchmen travel to West Point to participate in the MAC Cb.ampionships. RUnning on the Army's fast; 200 meter track, Union's athletes will make their big push to qualify for the state meet there. r .. SUPPORT UNION ATHLETICSI..-)

• • , r f 1 . , 'f g ., r d 0 tf d d ~r rt te is in te a ag tg at t'S :s. 1St ~c he :k, ~ir tte / CONCORDIENSIS, February 18} 1988 Page 23 Not long ago, on a rather cold and &tremely windy day 1 I found myself in the middle-of a Tundra-like setting in the northern region of New York State. Ten of us decided to sperid the day dcing something athletically related, yet nothlng too expensivEl_. We Callie to the conclusion tllat cross country skiing would be the perfect solution. After all, how hard could cross country skiing be? You take a ·nice relaxing ski ·through the woods on a trail that's aLready been made for · you. There's no sharp turns to .~ maneuver and how much skill can it possibly take. After all, its almost like walking. We were in for a rather large surprise. The first bit of advice we were given before we endured the trails was not to overdress for we would be definitely become quite hot due to the serious amount ()f energy we would be using. However, after stepping outside for a brief moment into 40 mph wind and a 25 degree temperture we decided we would take our chances and. wear a reasonable amount of clothing. After zipping up three sweatshirts·, putting on a thick . coat, securing a hat and tightening up the earmuffs, we were t'eady .. At first glance, things looked to be quite easy. All we had to do was put our skis into pre-made tracks and push forward. Easy enough. The inital part wasn't so had, but moving forward proved to be difficult. Mter some trial and error, we ~ll ~anaged to get the Not In The :aox Score. by· Mark Zimmerman hang of it. The trail starts off fairly flat and then 'proceeds to .go into the woods where it begins to slope npward. Yes, upward! Trying to walk/ski up a hill is not one of the easier things to do, Emvevet, we analyzed the situation and managed to figure out how to do it. Feeling a little .adventurous, we opted to try our luck on some s1ightly harder trails. This brought us to a trail that must have been designed by the same people who made the giant slalom course at Sarajevo. After some time, we reached the top of the hill. All we had to do now was point our skies down hill and we were set. The trail that led down the mountain looked fairly straight and uneventful; how hard could it be. After all, we jttst climbed up a mountain, now all we had to do was ski down (lne. Skiing d~wnhill in a pair of cross-country skis is not quite the same as downhill. Your skis are in two tracks, y.ou can't stop or steer, and its almost im- possible to use any downhill skiing technique. n~s mor-e or less point your skis straight, bend your knees·~ and kiss your butt good-bye. The entire slope was about 200 ya.,cls long._ After about 15 feet, my skies started to weave, my. body contorted and soon enougl:l I was head over heels in the snow. But the beauty of crosso(!ountry skiing is that its exremety hard to really hurt yours~lf. It's safe to say that the same spin in downhill skiing would .have put me in traction for years. 'The stretch of terrain that we were now on was in a clearing and there was nothing but wind to :keep us company, and there was plenty of it. With the harsh winds we were going against, it took us about 25 minutes to go about a quarter mile. It was at this point that we were tllinking back .to the advice we were given about not ovex:dressing. What dumb advice; we were free~ing. .Again we .reached a fork in the path. After a bit of apprehension we decided .to take an expert path. Within the nex::t 15 seconds I was face down, in tile snow lying ·in the middle of the .path. Being that there is virtually no way of stopping, the person im- mediately behind me was literally about to ski over me when I mamaged to roll out of the way. Needless to say, she fell too. Following this brief interlude, we, skied down the reJ;nainder of the trail and back to the lodge where we waited an additional half hour for the remainder of the group who had got caught \!lP on one of the slopes. Lucky for us, it was a Saturday. This meant that night skiing was in effect. Skiers could ski from ·S-9 pm on a \lighted. trail.'' We decided to try it. Little did we know that their definition of a \lighted trail, 1 ' was, as one of our group said, ''a 40 watt bulb every 50 feet.\ If you've been looking for something challenging but fun to do this winter and haven't yet found it, cross country skiing is definitely your answer. Speaking Of Sports: Playoff Fever/ ·By CARL R. FRffiDRICH The Skating Dutchmen can be refered to as · the streaking Dutchmen these days, and for good reason. The hockey team continues to improve with every game, and for coach Charlie Morrison's squad, the timing couldn't be better. The playoffs are corning, and despite their poor start, the Dutclunen have risen and become a respected Division II force. .. The Dutchmen, who are 6-2-1 in their last nine games (ex- cluding Tuesday's Oswego game), are a team of fire. Probably the biggest indication of that is the vistory over Hamilton last Thursday. Mter losing to the Continentals earlier -in the season, the new Dutchmen returned the favor with a 3-2 victory over the highly touted Hamilton side. Big Wins· · such as this h~ve resUr'rected the once burled Dutchmen. Playoff fever has suddenly hit Union, hoth for the players and the fans. The playoffs are now a very realistic topic of discussion in and around Achilles Rink, though few, inclnding this wr~ter, though it could be possible on December ninth, when the Dutchmen's record stood at o-7. Now, February eighteenth, Union could secure a bid. for post- season play with a win or possibly a tie against Norwich, depending on the Oswego game (Deadlines forced_a detailed accoUilt of that game). Despite the successful trend, the Dutchmen face a for- midable challenge in all of their remaining games. Like Union, every team is peaking now, all hoping to secure a spot in the postseason tournament, whether it be in the NCAAs or ECACs. In fact, both Hamilton and Middlebury (squad's final opponent) are vying for ECAC bids, as they are r~stricted to that tournament by conference rules (NESCAS ). Oswego is no puchover, as they· were ranked 15th in the nation in Division III as of February sixteenth, and Norwich has alsobeen ranked. For now, the Dutchmen cannot think too much about the ,- playoffs, only use it as a goal. The opportunity is there, but they h~ve to want it more than anyon~se does. They have all th~ tools with which to make it. 9ne can only' sit back and enjoy It all at this point, because win or lose, the hockey team will sarely_ be giving its all. When tllat happens, they can hardly lose. It will be a ZOO. Go get' 'em, guys . Union Hockey defeated Oswego State 8·7 (OT) Tuesday night. ECAC Division 11 West Standings (as of Monday, Feb. 15) · League Standings Team Elmira Oswego Plattsburgh RIT Brockport Hamilton Canisius UNION Cortland Geneseo Potsdam St. Bonaventure Hobart Binghamton Fredonia Won Lost 18 2 17 5 17 5 13 6 12 7 11 8 9 7 8 7 6 10 8 14 8 16 5 12 5 16 2 7 0 17 Tie 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 . ' l C!!nncorbitnsis · · SPORTS With A , Perspective On Sports By ANDREWMJI.IER Sports Editor \Sports are a window to society.'' Harry Edwards. It is clear as black and white to Dl\. Harry Edwards. The black athlete is the slave, and the NCAA, particulary Division I schools, are the plantations. Harry Edwards has become an . institution in American sport. From his organizing role in the black boycott of the 1968 Olympic Games in Mexico City to his outspoken ·criticism of the \public ignorance\ of AI Campanis and Jimmy ''the Greek\ Snyder, Harry · Edwards has never been one to tiptoe over others feet. Controversy is Edwards middle name. Mter the '68 Olympic \Protest for Human Rights\ in which black Americans John Carlos and Tommie Smith displayed their solidarity t~;~ the black cause by defiantly holding up their black· .gloved fists in a clenched salute. The result of the .protest for Edwards was a vandalized home and the adding of his name to the FBI potential troublemaker list. This was the public coming-out party for Edwards. He was a full-fledged radical, a man leading a single- handed fight against racism. When the University of California denied Edwards tenure in 1972 the ·issue went public. Edwards cried racism. After a year of being flooded with protest mail from notables around the world Edwards was offically granted his tenure. Not that Edwards was afraid to make waves before in any ocean, with tenure even his \beloved institution\ is not safe. \I get calls all the time, because coaches will bring a kid out to Berkely, and tell parents, 'Well you know Dr. Edwards is righ there. So you know we are doing the rightthing, because if we weren't he'd be all over us,\' Edwards said. ''I tell them, 'Hey, any black parent that sends his or her child to the University of California on an athletic scholarship should be prosecuted for child abuse.' So I'm not too popular with the athletic department at UC Berkely.\ Edwards feels that in American sports racism is the most irresolvable controversy that exists. It is no secret that big-time college athletic programs are the breeding grounds for professional sports, for Edwards the problem starts here. If sports is a window to society then the NCAA is still living in the days of Scarlett O'Hara. Frankly, my dear, Edwards gives a damn. \If you look at golf, tennis, gymnastics, wrestling, skiing ... we get nothing (scholarships). The reason, racism.\ Basketball and football on college campuses are revenue-producers. You don't bring in slaves unless you've got some work .for them to do, unless they're going to be profitable. If you're running a plantation system, you bring in slaves to make a profit, Division I institutions - a plantation system.\ Edwards pictures the recruitment .process as a big truck being backed up to tlle ghetto, ready to be filled with the most talented and easily exploitable blacks. Professional sports are a mirror to racisminherent in the. NCAA. Edward feels the lack of black coaches at any level of sport is a direct correlation to the plantation system. Of 285 schools running Division I programs only 2 have black athletic directors. In college basketball where the players are predominantly black only 28 . of the 285 sch()ols have black head coaches, and only one, John Thompson of Georgetown, was hired not as a direct result of problems between black players and white coaches. When white coaches have trouble keeping their \gladiators\ in battle, the administration turns to the only plausible remedy to keep the plantation system alive, a black coach. A black coach assures the players and recruits that it will be done right, and allows the plantation to continue to reap the harvest of television and stadium revenues. The sa:tne problem exists in professional sports today. Soon . the games of football and basketball will be black for all intents and purposes. Ac- cording to Edwards there must be blacks in all positions of the game stem to tide the racism, and put an end to the plantation system. \Groups like the NAACP, Urban League, SCLL who takes as their shop anything developing at the interface. of race at .. any phase are not needed to rectify the problem,\ stated Edwards. The problem of racism is ingrained in at- titudes of the American public, as witnessed by the recent remarks of Jimmy Synder. Edwards feels that \the sports institution must take the lead in devising solutions to these problems. Otherwise what we are going to wind up with is a mess.\ The probl.em according to Edwards dates back to \400 years of contorted, distorted, manipulated hwnan relationship in this country.\ Edwards has been asked by Comniissioner of Baseball Peter U eberroth to join a special committee to actively seek black candidates for coaching and managment fobs in baseball. C11rrently there are. no black managers in baseball. Edwards doesn't think he is the answer. He knows groups -like the NAACP and Urban League are too broad organizations, to tackle the problem. The answer must come from society. A change in thinking, a new attitude, a different prospective, that's all Edwards asks. For now he realizes that \there are no knights in shining armor. Only pony express riders each carrying over a short distance.\ Support Union College Athletics -

Dutchmen fans Orange growers. T·racksters soar tCJ new hel.ghts. {p. 22) February t8, 1988 The King . and ·His Court By ANDREW SALEM The Union Skating Dutchmen have proven they can play under pressure, and that they deserve a playoff spDt. Last Thursday the Division Two rival Hamilton Continentals travelled to the Achilles Arena only to be greeted by- a deter· mined Union team with an abundance of support. Knowing they must win three of their rema\ning games to be assured the final playoff spot, the Garnet took to the ice and defeaed Hamilton 3-2. Two days later, the Dutchmen stepped off the bus in Rochester, New York to take on the third ranked RIT Tigers. With a 2-7-1 road record, the Dutchmen have not been a strong team on the ()pponents ice this year, but they proved otherwise in Rochester leaving the arena with a 4-4 tie after being down 3-0. ' The Hamilton Nail-biter Earlier in the season the Dutchme~ were pummeled in the second and third periods at Hamilton and were defeated by the Continentals 6-4 after bei~g up by three in the early going. Last Thursday, ·the Duclunan wanted revenge. Hamilton's All-American goali~ Guy Hebert was out with ap- pendicitis, and Union was more than happy to test tile second string netrninder. Hamilton carne out strong in the opening minutes. The Continentals looked smooth, breaking the puck out easily and killing two penalties which gave the Dutchmem a five on three opportunity six minutes into the period. The p()werplay situation has not been effective for the Dutclunen all year and it looked as if nothing had changed for the Hamilton game. Union entered the game 20 for 119 ( 16.8%) on the powerplay. Although Union seemed s~le in the opening half of the penod, they managed to swing things aroW1d for the last ten minutes and oranges flew at the la: 11 mark. Phil Mac::laughlin pumped horne his second goal in four games to give the Dut- chmen a 1.0 lead. Mac:laughlin (2 goals, 0 assts, 2 .pts) was perfect position to pick up a rebound from a Mark Goguen (5-7-12) shot from the hash marks. The goal triggered a blizzard of oranges from the stands forcing the Hamilton goalie Pat Hoey to cower in his net protection. The Union fans felt obligated to return the deed done to Kinghorn at Hamilton. The fan support helped get the Dutchmen rolling for the remaining four minutes of the . period, easily killing a late Goguen booking calL . Ron Kinghorn was no less than incredible in the first twenty minutes, stopping all of Hamilton's seven quality shots. The Dutchmen outshot the Continentals 10-7. The lead would dissipate shortly into the second however. After receiving a pass from Plum, Bill Murphy skated down the left side to the top of the circle and blasted a boomer pastKingh{)rn's shoulder just 39 seconds into the period. The goal sparked intensity on both benches, as the teams battled for the tie-breaker which came at the 4:49 mark. A Hamilton penalty gave the Dutchmen a five on four advantage which they wflre able to capitalize. The Garnet moved the puck on the powerplay better than any two minute advantage all year. Mark Goguen stationed himself in front of the opposing net and chipped away at any shot that came near him. Finally his third tip .of the shift reached the back of the net. The goal was Goguen's sixth and was assisted by Bill Sedergren and Scott Cyr. Union successfully killed John Macintosh's second penalty of the game, but were unable to stiffle Harmlton on a Nick Baratoff cross-check which occured seconds later. Leger found Plum wide open in the shot leaving Kinghorn helpless to the shot tbat soon followed at 11:28. The game was tied at two going into the third but Union had a hot goaltender between the pipes. The third period was Union's most important period of hockey of the year, and they proved they can will under pressure. Hamilton came out tough as expected, bombarding Kinghorn with thirteen shots but not one would reach the baclt of the net. The unbeatable goaltender inspired the team, and the reward for their hard work would soon come. At 7:55 Terry Catnpell made a spec- tacular pass to Guy Logan who slipped passed the Hamilton defense. Logan skated to the top of the circle and blasted a shot in the upper' corner, giving the Garnet a 3-2lead. Union was able to hang on and kill late penalties on Scott Cyr and Peter Cotier or tbe win, - Unbeatable which gave them solid hold off eighth pla,<!~ behind Hamilton. Tbe ThriUer in RIJchester Things looked grim for the Dutchmen after their big win ·against Hamilton. Just eight minutes into the first period they were down 3-0 to the third ·ranked RIT Tigers. RIT is a Division Two West powerhouse and Union was looking for the upset victory. The Dutchmen came out flat and it appeared it would be a long night for the Garnet. Charlie Morrison's new lines seemed to be ineffective, and starting goaltender Terry RathweH }(Joked a little shaky. Eight min11tesinto the game, just after R.IT's third goal, Coach Morrison opted to make the switch and go with Kinghorn. The tide began to turn. Four minutes later Gary Temush {8~ 13..;21) stuffed in his ~ighth goal of the season. After shots by Eill Snow and Terry Campell were turned away by RIT goalie Chet Hallice, Temush was there to score on tbe rebound. Union then began to look like a different team. Although they were outshot in the period 15-8, the momentum was in the Garnet's favor going into the second. Both teamscame out flying in · tbe secmd half. Union chose to up the tempo by hitting more and RIT was happy to play the physical game. Uni()n began to carry the play, perhaps capitalizing ori a tired RIT team who won in overtirneagairrst second ranked Osweg() the night before. The . extra hustle paid off and Temush narrowed the margin to one witb his second goal of the night. Much like his first, Campell took the shOt and Temusb dril1e.d home the reboWld. Union was.crnising, RIT was flat. Guy Logan erased the RIT three god lead and tied .the game at tllree a:t the 8:39 mark. Terry CampeD, receiving his third assist for the night, danced around two RIT defenders passed to Logan who was strDng in the shot and he managedto bea£Hallice. RIT was n<tt eontent with the tie and began to put on the pressure. JuiJiO;r Scott Brown showecl 'Why he is sixth on the RIT Career Scoring List with . his twenty first goal of the season at the-u:12 mark. RIT displayed great · puck movement to catch the Union defense off guard, and Brown slipped the biscuit passed Kingh()r.n. · Both teams skated back and forth endlessly - in the third period' but only one goal was scored. Scott Cyr and Nelson Said combj~ed on the power- play to tie the game at four .at 10:07. T1JeDutchnten moved tbe puck wonderfully in the RIT zone and Cyr cranked home his ninth of the season. Both gQaltenders played extremely well, as well as both penalty killing units, especially noting Union's who. successfully killed eleven minutes of Bill Snow penalties. · People wonder why hockey coaches get ol<l young, a11d games Uke thls are the reason. The ten minute overtime period was the most exciting play of the year for the Dutchmen. The hack and forth hockey kept the fans on tile edge of their seats. Both teams had. five shots on goal, sol;lle extremely close,. but the game ended ina 4-4 tie. Special uote of spectacular play gees to Terry Carnpell with three assists, Gary Temush with t\Vo go~, and .Ron Kinghorn witll38 ~ves! 1-;.

•· Vol. CXVII, No. 16 Schenectady, :New York General ·Education Board Releases Finalized Proposal Approval Pending A.A.C. Review By EUSEFOODY Associate News Editor While most students at Union College are . presently con- cerned with pre-registration strategies, the General Education Board (G.E.B.) is looking ahead to . tne future class of 1993. available so that the Cotmeil was kept abreast of the progress of the proposal. The Board's propo~al is in some respects similar to the Liberal Learning Program now in ef- fect, but there are several notable differences between the twoplans. · · -~ \'''\ : ~ .. .,,, \\\\ The AIDS Con1er€nce last Thursday not only included the Minerva Hour lecturer, but many outside seminars and a question-and-a11swer session, above. See page two for details and the article bsl.aw. . · Dr. Ernest Drucker February 25~ 1988 104 Early Decision Candidates Accepted Implications of New SAT Policy Still Unknown By STEPHANIE JARYNA The Admissions Office is wrapping up the final Early Pecision candidates and in general the number of Early Decision applicants are up about40%. · Approximately 104 pro- As early as November of last year, the G.E.B. began workinfi to modify the .present Liberal Learning Requirements Program established by the Academic Affairs Council. Professor Anton Warde, Chair of the G.E.B., stated-that the new proposal ''retains the stracture of the A.A.C.'s plan, but reflects some points of emphasis of the Curricular Mfairs Committee.'' · The proposed curricultJID would still require all students to take the Freshman Preceptorial as well as one introductory level course in the Social Sciences. It would also allow engineering students t<J be exempt from some courses. The differences between the General Education Board's proposal and the current Liberal Learning Program are distinct. Under the rtew proposal, students would talte twelve courses plus the ~rec~2torial as opposed t<~ the fifteen courses now reql!ied in the Liberal Learning Program .. Highlighted AIDS Conference· at ·Minerva Hour Lecture spective students have been accepted early decision and have paid their .deposit, becoming officially ellrolled in the class of 1992. The ad- missions office is still waiting for the replies of an a-dditional 44 prospectives admitted early decision. Last spring the C.A.C. offered a competing plan to the General Education Plan which was almost equally favored by the faculty (a one-vote difference) but which did not repla-ce the Liberal Learning Program. Tile present proposal offered by the G.E.B. was to be discussed with the A.A.C. on Wednesday morning and again today with the Student Forum. Professor Warde mentioned thatthe \countours\ of the plan were periodically sent to the A.A.C. as they became · The new . proposal entails various changes in the mathematics, science .and · applied science requireme11ts. Students would be required to take only olle mathematics course, but the course would at least contain the level of dif- ficulty rrow associated with Math 20. Students would also be required to ta'ke two science See G.EN. ED, pg. 3 By MELISSASTEWAR'l' Union's one daF AIDS con- ference began- at 11:00 a;m. with an address from Ernest Drucker. In his.ad!lress entitled \Epidemiology of AIDS: Personal Risk .and Social Consequence,\ Dr. Drucker spoke of \the two separate epidemics which are occuring simultaneously.,, AIDS can be broken down into two major categories: gay AJDS which has received the majority of media publicity and IV drug user AIDS, which is eq:ually, if not Deputy Assembly Speaker Asks Students To Bring Union's Benefits Back Home By DAVE GULLIVER Editor·in·Chief Dep11ty Speaker Arthur 0. Eve looked over the audience, mostly minority st11dents, and asked what their majors were. He found future doctors, lawyers, and engineers. They were the ones. who triumphed over what he called \the serious crisis in education\ where serious inequities toward minorities thrive. In New York City~ Eve said, over 72 percent of Hispanics and 62 percent of blacks \dropped out, or were puslled out of school.\ According to the state commissioner of corrections, Eve said, ove1 81 percent of prison inmates are high school dropouts, and · the commissioner added that improvements in education would drastically reduce the nwnber of inmates. Eve has always been a supporter of bills to supp()rt education for minorities; his ::r: ~ IJJ ~ ~ UJ ~ o· ~ Q. rhoto oJ me Week: 1 he Had cross Bloodmobile drive was at Union last week. 186 pints of blood were donated. \ first piece of legislation, when h~ arrived in the state assembly 22 years ago; was a: schrllarship measure. But wh~t he sees as most important to education is the action an in!lividual can take. , \How many of yo.u,\ he asked his audience, \g(} back into the community, in Scllenectady or your hometown?· One, two, three ... that'sall ?\ ''Do you know what happens when you go baek and help another brother or sister who's struggling? When ·you help that little brother or sister begin to learn ... you begin toreaUze that you've got to do a better job, get a better educati<Jnso you can go back and change the conditions by which you \VEnt through schDol... by whicll you didn't have the role mo(JeJ of someone caring about you.\ Eve advocates r()le models as much as educati011; a publicly successful figure who also shows concern can do as much good as education. That person can halt the prollelms of AIDS and of teenage pre{!nancy, eight times more coiiiiilon among poor .dropouts. At the end of his talk, Eve asked for more v-olwtteers to bring the .benefits Oof Union back to the community. He got them. more important because it has introduced AIDS to the heterosexual population. Especially interesting were figures showing that in New York City the proportion of all AIDS victims who are IV drug users is far higher than the national average. This is im- portant because New York City has the second highest oc- curence of AIDS in the world (Africa is first) . Drucker pointed out that both AIDS and large scale cocaine availability- came to New York City in the 1970's. Cocaine, not heroin, is the drug of choice among IV users. Cocaine or AIDS alone would have caused severe problems, but together the results are disasterous. Par- ticularly distressing is the fact that the parts of New York City where drug abuse is highest are also the places where teenage pregnancy is the highest. This shows that those people who need to protect themselves the most are not doing so. While condom sales have soared over the past few years, most buyers are members of the middle class who'are not in as much danger. The risk may not be as great in other locations, but no one is safe. There are presently between 1 and 1.5 million Americans carrying the AIDS virus; most of these people do not know that they are infected. While the incidence of AIDS in the Capital District is lower than in New York City, people should still be concerned. Ac· . cording to Dr. Drucker, within . ten years, everyone in America will know someone with AIDS. While not everyone infecteq will · die of the disease, most recent figures show that at least 50% of · all people infected will die from an illness allowed to escalate as a result of a deficiency in their immune system caused by the AIDS virus. The second issue Dr. Drucker discussed is the effect of an increase of AIDS victims on the hospital bed space available in Sea MINERVA, pg. 2 Ann Fleming, associate dean of admissions, cited the following qualitative reasons for the increase in the number of early decision candidates. First, the new facil:ities on campus have been quite a draw \Applicants' gradt!s and the quality of the courses they have taken are of greater importance in applicant evaluation.\ as well as the increase in the number of interviews and the number of campus to:urs and visits. There also seems to be a trend to get the application process over as soon as possible. According to F'leming, '\People are choosing early decision options more often ... · it reduces the anxiety of ap- plying to college.\ However, the question remains, what has the new policy of optional SAT scores shown in the quality and quantitY- of applicants? It is now required that if a prospective student wishes not to include his or her SAT scorr:, he must instead submit scores from either the American See ADMISSIONS, 3 ,Le,rle;·& , r~~ ,.h~ \ Editor ... ···pgs. 13 & 14 ..: .:.,, ;.:,:: . ~ - . -'' . - l. ~ I. i I • l . \ - \' . ' . ~ . l ' '.i; . I ' 'l I . ·~ . '

rage 1. CONCORDJENSIS, February 2$, 1'988 QLilltOlfbitnsis ·AIDS Review Concordiensis News Staff has devoted . . all of page two, usually covering aD.alysis of the news, to the AIDS Conference held at Union on February t 8. Concordlensis feels this is indeed a pressing issue, and we urge the college community to become informed of it. Treating AID,S and Ethical Issues What Is AIDS? By TAMRA TIBBETTS Roy Stevens spoke to a group of Union students and faculty during the AIDS conference last Thursday. Stevens, who is the director of the Laboratory for Diagnostic Immunology for the New York State Department of Health, centered his talk on the biology and serology of the AIDS virus. first, known as the Anti-body Eli~a Test, is very sensitive and David M. Liebers, M.D .• Infectious Disease Physician By JENNIFER HOLMES is used by blood banks. There ! are people who will react positively to the first test but do n()t have the vil·us.Inthe case of blood banks, they are not dial(nosingthe. person, they ate defining blood, so a positive reaction will label the blood contaminated. By NY State law, however, the second test, known Dr. David Liebers, infectiotls disease physician at Ellis ' Hospital, defines AIDS as m always deadly disruption of t:he immune system associated witll HIV infection. Fifty percent of the people diagnosed with the virus develop AIDS. The symptoms of AIDS are diverse consisting of the Slim dise~e seen in Africa, opportunist in• as the Western Blot Technique I, is required in order to diagnose a person as having. AIDS. This test uses elec- trophoresis, which is a process where. proteins separate by molecular weight when plac~d in an electrical field. A positive reslllt with this test is con- finnation that the virus is pr:e5ent. In NY State, 15 percent of those tested receive positive reslllts with the Antibody Elisa Test and 12 percent to 13 per- cent test positive on the second test. The majority of those two · fections parasitic in nature, malignancies such as cancer of the skin, an<l degenerative · neurological syndromes. Unfortunately, the treatment is suppression. A cure does not exist. In addition, special problems. occur. Who will do·the surger? for an AIDS patient who needs.a new hip? No one. Although the risk may be low, fear is high. Dental work attains a similar reaction. Nothing is normal with AIDS, and each case is different. Doctors do not know what 1o expect. How far should a doctDr .go, when each case is terminal? Consequently, an enormous amount of pressure is exerted to release experimental drugs early. · Dr. Thomas Davis, chaplain and assistant . professor .of religion at Skidmore College, began his,discussion stating that the individual possesses. two rights: the right of health care and tile right of privacy. Con- cerning AIDS' victims both of these have been badly com• promised through the lethargy of the goveri)Illent and the prominence of· religion in the · · United States. Davis agrees that certain concepts must be examined and satisfied. One must justify the. invasion of priva~y. One must work in favor of the minority. Using the example of POlio, Davis recalled. the urgency involved when poliu became an epidemic. With AJDS, t:his urgency was delayed several years due to bias. Davis alSQ expresses a need \to avoid moralizing issues, instead think in terms of experience.\ Davis' example was a professor of sociology at Skidmore wgo tri'tld to explain the possible dangers of mandatQry drug testing to his class. His class didn't Show much interest but when the .professor convinced a security guard to pretend that he was enforcing <;!rug tests, the students ·were· outraged. The statement, \it could happen to me\ is a preventive motivation to help others rather than waiting until '-'it is happening to me\ to direct one's Will. Thomas Davis thinks that religion gives birth to attitudes; attitudes that cause problems. \The church is afraid of sex;uality. AIDS is not a homosexual disease. It is a sexually transmitted disease. When persons of· the clergy get together and decide that eighth graders can be educated about AIDS as long as sexual in- tercourse is not mentioned, a problem eltists.\ Mr. Davis perce~ved that the church will be a hindrance rather than· a catalyst in the fight to combat AIDS, but the church will support the victims of this deadly diSease. Many of the issues examined in this seminar presented · relevant ethical questions facing us today. How we decide to answer them is our own choice. Accor!fulg to Stevens, the most significant problem (If the disease is that the' · T4 lym- phocyte, which he likened to the conductor of a symphony, is attacked by the hwmm im- mwHldeficiency virus (HIV). This causes a failure within the immune system, as a symphony would eventually .stop playing if the conductor left. On the other hand, he alSo noted that the number of viruses propagated out of a single infected cell is small in contrast to hepatitis. That is why those working with the infection are not as susceptible to AIDS as they are to other diseases. There two tests for HIV. The to three percent who fall into the overlapping category are women. AIDS Will Cost 95 Billion by 1991 Legal Issues and AIDS Jean Quarrier, Esq., Asst. Council for NYS Health Dept. By ELIZABETH BERLINER Jean Quarrier, the Assistant CoUnsel of the NYS .Department of Health, examined \AIDS and Public Health Legal Issues\. She emphasized that AIDS is a new area oflaw, so there have been relatively few decisions, and these decisions are changing with each new medical discovery. Presently, the State of New York is handling the epidemic with careful consideration for the confidentiality of the victim. Because there is no known cure, these people must attempt to maintain normal lifestyles. Contact tracing is available on a voluntary basis, but cannot be enforced because ·of the in· dividual's right to privacy. In addition, it is feared that sucb enforcement could hinder the willingness of many to come forward .for testing. Regarding mandatory testing, it is considered a violation of the Fourth Amendment as ft is an: \unlawfUl seizure\ of blood~ To be effective, it would have tD be done repeatedly, resulting in a great ex:pense to the com· mWlity- $26 per persDn- and for most of New York State, this is completely unnecessary. Ms. Quarrier stressed that if a cure is found, then perhaps the methods of testing and tracing would be more usefuJ: and less threatening to the public. During the second half of the seminar, Mitchell Netburn, who lectured in place of Charles Eisnaugle, of the ~YS Office of AI:DS Discrimination Issues explained .that AIDS is a disability, not a sickness. A disability is defined as a \physical medical, or psychological impairment, or the perception of h~ving such a condition.\ · People who test antibody positive for AIDS virus may never actually develop the disease, but they are discriminated against regar- dless of this fact. There are now over 150 cases regarding AIDS discrimination, most involving the fear of trai!S'llission of the virus throllgh food, touch, or the air: Victims are often either im- mediately dismiSsed from their position of employment, or steadily weeded out of the system. In addition, twenty percent of the cases deal with the exclusion of victims from public accommodations such as hospitals, l;lealth clubs, and apartments. 1\fr. Netburn emphasized that w:hat is needed is an increase in AII>S education directly within the employment network, as well as in the schools. Public knowledge is the only way to end the Wlfounded fears that promote discrimation. Minerva Hour Continued from page 1 Nev.r York City. Presently, theTe is a shortage of beds in Nev.r York City; an increase in the number of AIDS victims who need special attention will decrease the amount of space available to others. Since AIDS is looked on so negatively, the competition for medical care is bvwtd to cause social conflict. At the same time that the number of patients is in- cre~sing, the number of people going into medicine .is likely to ByDANIELJ. KENIRY Associate News Editor Dr. James Lambrin(}S estimated at tbe Union College AIDS Conference that AIDS will cost approximately 95 billioll dollars by 1991 .if the number .IJf . cases continues to. rise. David H. Shippee,· of Albany Medi<!!Jl Center, outlined the hospital's new AIDS Treatment CenteL\ and the state's overall AIDS policy. He noted the specifics,()£ their care for prison, inmatEs, and the lack of AIDS treatme11t facilities north of Westchestel' County. Mr. Shippee told the story .()f how the New York State Healtll Department certified their infectious disease unit as an official AIDS Treatment Center in May of last year. The Centel' is a 15-bed unit that follows 1:1 standards established by the Health Department. One of the standards is that a mult(· disciplinary team exist to treai HIV positive patients., This team's specialists from internal medicine, infectious disease, nutrition, a representative from Hospice, and an educati()n coordinator. The Albany Treatment Center is one of 25 In the state, only four of which exist north of Westchester CoWlty. There are from 8-12 prison inmates housed at any one time in Albany, says Mr. Shippee •. Therefore, there·are as many as six corrections officers posted outside rooms. The Center services about 20 correctional facilities, from Greenhaven to Fishkill. Very few 6f these in· mates are from upstate. Mr. Shippee joked that there· aren't just 5:1 correctional .facilities in New York; the 54th is the bus that goes aroUnd from prison to priso~;~ carrying the HIV positive patients who aren't welcome anywhere else. Dr. Lambrinos focused on the \macro\ or, aggregate cost of AIDS to society issue. This was broken down into who's going to pay all this and how much we should spend on research and prevention. Obviously, the Doctor said, we can't quantify pain and suffering. Yop. can quantify direct a~d indirect costs of AIDS. D1rect costs include the medical costs to treat a patient. Non-personal costs are for prevention or research. Economic indirect cost is measured by how much society has lost in output. This is measured by what the patient would have earned. The total cost for one year for one AIDS patieqt including· hospital care, home care, drugs, nursing home care; etc. is 38,()()() dollars a year. This is just the cost of treating AIDS . patients. Dr. Lambrinos went on to aggregate this-- he multiplied this figure by the number of cases (his estimate: 173,000). As a \conservative estimate\ the medical cost will. be about 6.5 billion dollars. Drucker Disc11sses '-'Gt~y'' AIDS • • • 11nd ''IV'' AIDS decrease due to the risk, especially those working witb blood. Dr. Drucker feels that it is important to educate people about the risks and tell them how to decrease their likelihood of contracting AIDS. Also important is stopping prejudice against AIDS victims and those close to them. There has never been a recorded, case of a person contr~cting AIDS through casualcontact. AIDS can be transmitted only through blood-to-blood or blood- to-semen exchange. Drucker noted that while the incidence of AIDS is high in the United States, public knowledge is low. Other nations have made more of an effort to educate their people through media advertisements. Drucker said the major problem in this country is that Americans find it extl\emely difficult to discuss anything related to sex. Until\ this problem is alleviated, AIDS will continue to spread. Probably by 1991, the average cost for one year will be sub- stantially higher. Who has paid? Patients and Medicaidhavecoveredthe cost. This. focus, of course,. was only on direct costs. In terms of indirect costs, the issue is not if we can afford it but that someone has to pay it. For the most part, the \someone'' is the individual. An aggreggate of this cost is expected to be 9~ billion by 1991. · The non-personal costs of research and education he estimated at 2.3 billion dollars for 1991. Add this tothe 93 billion for other indirect costs and we have 95.4 billion after education. Dr, Lambrinos asked, isn't it worth 93 billion to save 93 billion? The answer to this is yes. If we spend 93 billion and eliminate AIDS, it is certainly worth the cost (from an economic perspective). If the money reduces the incidence of AIDS cases by two to ten per- cent, it was worth it. If it reduces by less than one per- cent it was not worth the cost. He argaed that we cannot spend 2.3 billion dollars to save one life in our .society. How many lives would it save if used for another purpose? Dr. Lambrinos declined to comment on a woman's question that we should transfer funds for Star Wars or military to AIDS research. ( -· c~ cc cl w: re ei di pi r~: tn st cl aJ PI tt c rr li tl C4 tl c s1 tl o: T s c, tl g p h E I tl p s a il ~·. I I' .t '

I ~ ) CO~e'ORDJENSJS, '·February'·'25,, 1988' Gen. Ed. Awaits A.A. C. Approval Class of 1993 First to be Affected Continued f.rom page t courses, one which would in· elude a laboratory inconnection with the class. The other required science course· would either count for the major in· the discipline or have a stated math prerequisite. Professor Warde saidthat the rationale behind this plank of the proposal would allow students to '''rise to the challenge of doing real math and real science.\ Also, the proposal states that ''we think the General· .Education Curric:;:ulUill should have a math/science requirement that matches in quality Union's reputation for special ex- cellence in these disciplines of the liberal arts.;' · The General Education literature and one course in civrlization. · · A third major pla~k -of the . proposal which would not specifically be required of engineering majors would either require ''four additional · . courses in Divisions other than · that of the major or one of . . several options in foreign Education. Students would have the option of taking a sequence of three courses in a classical or modern foreign language; or they may take four courses in . . Asian Studies, Latin American Studies or Middle Eastern ~ a: .IJJ ::.c z · Studies; or students may take any Union Term Abroad with the corresponding .prerequisite. The Board hopes with this proposal to encourage and ~otivate students ,to study literature and foreign cultures. Presently, Professor Warde specified that approximately two hundred students per class graduate from Union without knowledge of a foreign language. ~ ~ Zi5 g -~ a. Jeff Berkowitz, Student Forum V.P. and representative for A A. C. The overall proposal aims to expose students to an in-depth · segment of a specific heritage, and Professor Warde is hopeful that it will be accepted by the Academic Affairs Council. The General Education Curriculum, if approved, will be adopted for the fall term of 1989 for the class of 1993. It will not affect any student presently enrolled at Union and the proposal, over four years, will gradually phase out' the Liberal Learning Ptogl\arn altogether. Professor Curriculum would also place a strong emphasis on history and the· study of foreign cultures outlined in the ''Western Tradition\ requirement. Students would take two courses in History and choose these coursesaccor~ng to their geographic and chronologjcal preferences, They could choose betweeq .· Ancient l and II, European I mid ·u, or: American I and. 'II , and \Y()tild. complete . · these courses· as early as possible in their curriculum Students Would also -complete as early as possible two courses . Warde mentioned that because the plan is going to be im- plemented over four years, the Board will have time to \fine tune\ any points. of the proposal which may need recon- !:: .fl3 a: l.LJ :.::: z ~ (/) EO f2 '~' ~ Kenneth Nourse and Ann Fleming spoke to Concordiensis on the earlY decision applicants for the class. of 1992. Admissions Hopes for Class of '92 Are '~Positive'' Continued from- page 1 sion Kenneth Nourse stated College Test or a CCJllege_Board in relation to the present SAT achievement test. Fleming option, \We have no intention of explained that the SAT scores of • allowing this to diminish the those candidates ·who indicate<l quality of the educational they wished not to have their standard here. If we get any SAT looked at with their ap- indicativn -of such, adjustments plication are literally \whited. will be made.\ Professor Terry out.\ And, now more than ever. Weiner will be researching any applicants' grades. and the trends with the new SAT policy quality of the courses they have may show in the quality of taken are of greater importance students over· the next three in applicant evaluation. , years. In the November 23, 1987 Fleming noted that thus far issue of the Intercollegiate the quality of applications has Press Bulletin, Dean os Admis- not dropped and the admissions ------------------------...---.:_------:-------~--------_:_ _____________ staff is both anxious and positive to continue with the in literature or one course in language culture.\ In the four course extra requirement, not all c«;>urses would be .taken in the same Division ·and at least one would be· a course in literature or civilization. II1 the foreign langpage or culture section of the pTan, courses could be double-counted: for the major and the General sideration. Hickok Hosts StUdent Forum On the Road; Topics Di$CU§Sect Medip~l f.\$_§i$~gnpel Gen~ Ed., Senior Gift ~ r • • • .. • • ' • • - • ... • • ~· • .. ' ' , , • J • • - • ' 'I[. ' By STEPHANm JARYNA · . constitute Union Coll~ge club Twelve Student Forum · status. members, including newly Keith Bemis reported the elected Freshman Represen- following events occurred at the tative, Dan Waibel, were · past Student Affairs Council present at last week's meeting meeting. The S.A.C working in Hickok House; where issues with the Inter Fraternity discussed .ranged from 'the Council found many good ideas newly released General in the recently released Social Education BQard proposal to Policy. Working together the · thenewparkingpolicy. · two councils have concluded Committee reports began thus far that there is no chance with Jeffery Berkowitz report- of having any alcobol related ing that the Academic Affairs functions in the C«Jllege Center Council. recently, \\!at> pre&ettted · but -they are pursuing the withthe new General Education . possibility of opening the Board Proposed Curriculum . Skellar to all students, not just a and explained details of the 21 C1ub atmosphere .. Hopes are proposal {See page l). that the Skellar will return to Berkowitz also reported that being a social alternative on the emergency revision of Gel campus as it was before the Time, , which inserts an · ad- taps were removed in Winter ditional 85 minute math slot to 1986. the present schedule has been The I.F.C. and theS.A.C. are passed by the Academic Affairs · also working on securing live Council. entertainment in the . College Davi~ Cohen, repQr'ting.to the Center on a weekly basis as well Forum on behalf of the Finance as increasing the studeilt lounge Committee announced that the size in the College Center with Signing Ciub, whose con- · more pool tables and possibly stitution was passed with vending and video machines. funding by the Student Forum The I.F.C. as part of the two weeks ago, would not Social Policy is .attempting to receive funding if the club took change the regulation of party on an attendance mandatory, size such that size would be classroom like atmosphere. It . regulated by square footage of was also noted that this is house size and fire regulations merely a re-emphasis of a rather than the present prev~ously stated club policy regulation system which and m no way signals out the . constitutes party size bY the activities of the Signing Club. nwnber of brothers in the The Finance Committee has house. also \matched fundsjt with the Marty Cepkauskas. I.F.C. recent ERG Challenge .spon- president, announced that the sored as a fund raising activity a~.nistration wal> responding of the Crew Club. The Crew positively to the Social Policy, Club was matched one dollar '~everyone agrees that there is a for each dollar they raised up to social problem on campus, the $500 and fifty cents fot: each I.F.C. is moving in the right additional dollar up to $1000. direction.\ : · · Finally Cohen restated that A report from the Gel Time funding for the Crew Club's Committee included an an- coach and the Cheerleaders' nouncement that the Com~ will be moved to another fun- mittee is presently formulating ding source beginning .in Fall a letter concerning· Gel Time 1988, ThiS\is becalise both clubs revisions which · shall be. are men1ber .excludeable, .delivered to the A.A.C. in the therefore technically do not near future. :David' Cohen, reportiitg on tne · - activities of the ad hoc Health · Service Committee, informed members present that there is a Union College Medical Assistance Program currently being formed on campus. The · program, which is working independently of the Student Forum and Health Services, is being formuhlted by Darrin D' Agostino and David Marker. The program's purpose is to respond to medical accidents on campus. providing necessary and capable care and then proceeding to call for am- bulatory transportation if needed. The foundation of the , program is still in the workings, a proposal has been submitted to adlninistration. Geri Lynn Mackey presented the new Parking Proposal ~he fol'Illulated. The proposal in- volves tw9 major changes which are the implementation of Freshinen parlting in the· Riclunond overflow lOt beginning in the 88-89 school year and faculty and ad- ministrators should be ticketed for parking in student lots just as students shoUlil be ticketetl for parking in Faculty and Administrators lots. ·The Forum proceeded to discuss the policy before passing it. The meeting ended with an informal explanation by Mackey to the F«Jrutn of the concept of the Senior Gift. Mackey explained the Class Gift \is a form of uniting the class.\ Obviously this concept has been lost among the senior class. The Student Forum will conclude its program Stude:rut Forum on the Road tonight at their meeting in West College. The meeting will begin at 8:00 and all.are welcome to attend. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• THIS WEEK'S EYEN,TS: •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Friday, February 26: ~ . - . 5-9:30 PM- Dutchmen's Nite, CC Atrium 7,9111 PM- Film- lnnerspace, GC Aud. 7:30PM- Hindustani Dance, Peri.~ Arts Studio Noon-1 PM- CC404B. Merton tapes discussion. Saturday,_ February 27: 7,9,11 PM- Film·.Jnnerspace, CC Aud Sunday, February 28: 7,9, 11 PM- Film-lnnerspaoe, CC Aud regular Admissions process which will notify regular . decision candidates of their acceptallce on April5. ···.·,M .. y., .... ,_,_,.·.·.····.···. . : - '::. ' . : ;,, ~G~I!~:,. •·1t113re? _l'~m going~ . desperately seek . your info.386~4484 .. ; ... ,. THE TYPING PlACE •Pmfessional •Experienced •Timely The f)lac:e to take all your typing needs · 399-0980 State ~f The Art Equipment 1 0% D!scoun.t With This Ad~ . \ , DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1517 Van vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING ONLY NEWS MAKES THE FRONT PAGE JOIN CONCORDIENSIS NEWS Call Tina x6850 or Beck x4416 WE NEED WRITERS FOR THE SPRING ;, '• !_ '' 1 !: ' : i j ;, ·,, I ' i I' I I i ·, . j

• • • Page 4 CONCORDiENSlS, February 25, 1988 FEATURES T .·. alk' or· th· ·e· T. OWD·. Concordiensis recently asked: \How dO you feel . you have benefitted fr_om your years at Union? Photos and Interviews by Stan Kitzinger Financially - not· at all. Socially - my parents & I would agree on the subject. Physically - If the real world is as hectic, I'll be dead by the age of 3.f>. Tanya .Rodzlan ko '89 \Sex·· 'Drugs\ · Ilana Hand '88 Jill Satisky '88 Five Year MBA at Union BySUZANNESHAKER Along with the seven year medical program and the six year law prog:-am Union University also offers a five year Master's of Business Administration degree. The Graduate Management Institute (neither a school nor department of business) located on the third floor of Bailey Hall created this unique program over six years ago. The program enables students to receive their undergraduate Bachelor of Arts or Science and either a general MBA, a health Systenis MBA or an MBA in The alternatives are to stretch it out to five and a half year;s or to spend a swruner or two taking classes. Advanced placement credit from high school may also lighten the heavy course load. plenty of opportunity to receive scholarships and other forms .of financial assistance. Once a student ·completes their first tb.irty·six courses their finan- cial aid is turned over to the g~aduate administration and they begin paying graduate tuition prices. For those of you who would ,li.lte to know mere about the program there will be an in- formational meeting sometime dlll'ing spring term. And if you ca~'t wait till then the staff at .the institute will be happy to !lllSwer any questions you have l!Oncerning t~e program. \and rock & roll.\ \friends .... \ Krist~n ThibeaUlt '88 Darrin D'gostino ~as Professor :WineapJ?le Publishes · Work on Janet Flanner By VIRGINIE.MELIO As -a result of earning the Natio-nal Endowment for Hum ani.ties Fellowship Professor Wineapple room the Engli:sll Department was able to • take a year off to work on her man11script Genet. Genet is . a biography of Janet Flanner (1925-1975), graduate of the U.niversity of Chicago, who in her earlier life wrote for tbe Indimapolis Star, and later becarne the Paris correspon- dent for the New Yorker Maga~ine. Throughout these last years Professor Wmeap- . ple's research bas taken Iter to states sucn as. €al'ifotqia, Indiana, and Texas. During her year off from Union, in h&:r last stage of research, she traveled to Paris and England, tracking down prim~ry sources. This task proved to be difficlllt, as many people whO knew Ms. Flanner are dead or are no longer in Paris. As always, final revision and choice and procurement of illustrations take time; the printing date for Genet is far off. ·. accounting in five .year.s instead of the normal six. After entering the program as either a junior or a senior one begins taking a combination of undergraduate and graduate courses each term. Juniors and seniors with a G.P.A. of 3.2 or higher and dean's list standing fer t!1e two years preceding entra:1ce into the program may be evaluated for admission. Applicants are exempt from taldng the GMATS (business school entrance exam). Those who are not accepted may take the normal route, graduate from Union and then applY, for the . two · year graduate _ prqgram. These students are required to take the GMATS and must have a G.P.A. of at least 3.0. The program is quite small, although in the past year and a half the nwnber of students has increased tremendously. The Senioritis The requirements for graduation diffel\ slightly for those in the five year program as well. Instead of completing thirty-six undergraduate and eighteen graduate credits for a total of fifty-four students are excused from three un- dergraduate courses for a total of only fifty-one credits. Most students do nqt complete the program in exactly five academic years, to do so would mean taking an overload Jf four ByLEATAJACKSON size of the program allows the Senioritis is a column students to work closely with designed to bring ,together their professors and receive announcements of particular individual attention. According interest to members of the class to Paul Dolanski, a recent of '83. graduate of the program the One sympto;mof senioritis is a staffwasveryhelpfulin making persistent feeling of anxiety. It contacts for job interviews and is characterized by tenseness internships. about everything in particular. courses a term for six .erms. Anllther advantage of the . rt dawned on most seniors about program's size is the abundance two weeks ago that the 'real of financial assistance available 1 \World' is shortly to arrive; the to its students. The program is , rest of our lives seems to hang well endowed and there is , 011-one phone call, one letter and _____ '\\\\\\\\\'1!111!1!1!1!\\'11!1!1!_\\'!'\!'_~_..~-- .... -_..,\\\\'!!\\\\\'-. that is scary. ····•W;RQ·(:· .. ;lii1VII'. ~:~:iti~~~~ 11ow for front row seats. to the Here ar ::_e :the· s· ta· n .... d. ··in·g·:··s ... , .. a __ .. fter,1wo thesis marathon beginning this weekend! See how many eco Weeks Of Trl ·v·la' 1988'w·· majors can write a chapter - • - faster than a speeding bullet!! Expect diminished supplies of GREEKS Coke, Diet Coke, Jolt and coffee . . .· . .. 24 _ .. EVerywhere! For those of you Phi Neat Guys 54 preferring tbe sdenc.e and tech ZB • T 1• 5. 6. . . events in this . year's games, <ion 't miss the 'do-your- Kappa Alpha 3 Fox 1. research-project-in-two-weeks' 1 ·. ~print being held in S&E! ! . North , (S&M?)Andofcourse, all of the IN DEP EN 0 ENTS. ~~~:i~eb~e:kd~~~:t~~=~: W . •ted ao· ts 19 because of the abuse. The . . as . . . . . a . twelve-meter dash to see if your Floyd · 17 printout is ready yet will be sivrs 7 ImlerSquirels 3 Clueless Wonders 2 takin~ place on the Steinmetz track: at 8 o'clock. On a more serious note, we are .simultaneously trying to prepare for the future. First there is going out and buying the suit. Then there is hoping yoa get on your top three choiees' schedules at the CDC. Theil there is the waiting .•. and waiting ... fo.r the rejection letter. \I am sorry but we find that your qualifications are not consistent with our objecti:ves at this time. We will keep your namE on file and ... \ On the · other hand, all of the back- slapping and yelling in the maib:oom is. people sharing news of second interviews of acce;ptances.lf graduate school is y()ur aim, first there are the GRE'S. Then there are twenty- pa-ge applications and the essa:ys and wishing your cwn was a lot better. Then there is the \Waiting for those letters. \I am sorry but we· cannot offer yo11 a position in the class of 199L Your academic record is ex~elltJnt but ... \ .Adcl to this the worry over wheiller or not you are going to pass that last liberal learning and top it off with the fact that photography I is not offered spril1g term and you have the mess which leads to senjoritis. Express 1 There have now been 12 stumpers in the . . . . competition. This Week's Bonus Question: '·. What is the Brady's Home Telephone Num~er? ease sen caree~r~~~~ ~a me Address There is- no known c11re for seniorities. There are a few suggestions for combatting anxiety. Read the op·ed page of the New York Times dW'ing the ten minutes before the in- terview. It has been highly recommended by numerous seniors to try exercises tn various f01ms to relieve Stress. Many .of the women asked for input for this colwnn observed that women cry and men play sports; especially those in- volving throwing balls. Some seniors suggest going to Albany to dance~ Whatever you do, enjoytherest of senior year, try to relax once in a while and think positive. -There are no dates to remember this week. These last two weeks are foT thesis- research. -Next week is the last Pre- Registration at Union College. Let's hope,d~ goes better than the first pre-registration at Union College. Do you realize We are tile last class to remE:mber beer .flowing freely in the Skellar? In your three · and .one-half years here have you ever submitted anything to tbe Idol? Only 114 more days 'till the real fun begins. 'Ybat will we miss the most?? The final round begins at 8 pm ~hi$ sund,ay College Name ·Scholastic Guidance Service · .807 .Hampton Ave·nue, Schen~ctady, New York 12309 518·377-1_289 Ni ht on WRUC 89.1 FM. . . . - ! ., :I i . ' I ' I

• • .,. ·:; ,·,..!: .. . .. \ ~. ;. t ,.. . ~.\' 'f ~ ·, • l- \\l. ........ Q , Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, February 25, l!J88 FEATURES Tal .k.. of the ·Town Concordiensis recently asked .. · \How do you feel you have benefitted from your years at Union? Photos and Interviews by Stan Kitzinger Financially - not at all. Socially - my parents & I would agree on the subject. Physically - If the real world is as hectic, I'll be dead by the age of 30. Tanya Rodzianko '89 IIana Hand '88 \Drugs\ Jill Satisky '88 \and rock & roiL\ \friends ... \ Kristen Thibeau It '88 Darrin D'gostino '85 Five Year MBA at Union Professor Wineapple Publishes Work on Janet Flanner By SUZANNE SHAKER Along with the seven year medical program and the six: year law prog::-am Union University also offers a five year Master's of Business Administration 'degree. The Graduate Management Institute (neither a school nor department of business) located on the third floor of Bailey Hall created this unique program over six: years ago. The program enables students to receive their undergraduate Bachelor of Arts or Science and either a general MBA, a health systems MBA or an MBA in accounting in five years instead of the normal six:. After entering the program as either a junior or a senior one begins taking a combination of undergraduate and graduate courses each term. The requirements for graduation differ slightly for those in the five year program as well. Instead of completing thirty-six: undergraduate and eighteen graduate credits for a total of fifty-four students are excused from three un- dergraduate courses for a total of only fifty-one credits. Most students do not complete the program in ex:actly five academic years, to do so would mean taking an over load Jf four courses a term for six erms. The alternatives are to stretch it out to five and a half years or to spend a swnmer or two taking classes. Advanced placement credit from high school may al~o lighten the heavy course lo~d. Juniors and seniors with a G.P.A. of 3.2 or higher and dean's list standing for t}.1e two years preceding entra:iCe into the program may be evaluated for admission. ApfJlicants are exempt from taking the G MATS (business school entrance exam). Those who are not accepted may take the normal route, graduate fr'orn Union and then apply for the two year graduate pmgram. These stlldents are required to take the GMATS and must have a G.P.A. of at least 3.0. The program is quite small, although in the past year and a half the numbel:\ of students has increased tremendously. The size of the program allows the students to W()rk closely with their professol:\s and receive individual attention. According to Paul Dolanski, a recent graduate of the program the staff was very helpful in making contacts for job interviews and internships. Anl)ther advantage of the program's size is the abundance of financial assistance available to its students. The program is well endowed and there is plenty of opportunity to receive scholarships and other forms of financial assistance. Once a student completes their first thirty-six courses their finan- cial aid is turned over to the graduate administration and they begin paying graduate tuition prices. For those of you who would .like to know more about the program there will be an in· fonnational meeting sometime during spring term. And if you can't wait till then the staff at the institute will be happy to answer any questions you have concerning the program. By VlllGINIE MELlO As a result of earning the National Endowment for Humanities F ellowshiJ. Professor Wineapple from the English Department was able to take a year off to work on her manuscript Genet. Genet is a biography of Janet Flanner (1925-1975), graduate of the University of Chicago, who in her earlier life wrote for the Indianapolis Star, and later 'became the Paris correspon- dent for the New Yorker Magazine. Throughout these last years Professor Wineap- ple's research has taken her to states such as California, Indiana, and Tex:as. During her year off from UnioR, in her last stage of research, she traveled to Paris and England, tracking down primary sources. This task proved to be difficult, as many people who knew Ms. Flanner are dead or are no longer in Paris. As always, final revision and chotce and procurement of illustrations take time; the printing date for Genet is far off. Senioritis ByLEATAJACK.SON Senioritis is a column designed to bring together annow1eements of particular interest to members of the class of '88. One symptom of senioritis is a persistent feeling of anxiety. It is characterized by tenseness about everything in particular. It dawned on most seniors ahout two weeks ago that the 'real l world' is shortly to arrive; the rest of our lives seems to hang j on one phone call, one letter and tal~ing place on the Steinmetz track at 8 o'clock. ..------------------------.. that is scary. WRUC TRIVIA ~~!~:~:~i7~1a~~~~~ On a more serious note, we are simultaneously trying to prepare for the future. First there is going out and buying the suit. Then there is hoping you get 011 your top three choices' schedules at the CDC. Then there is the waiting ... and waiting .. .for the rejection letter. \I am sorry but we find that your qualifications are not consistent with our objectives at this time. We will keep your name on file and ... \ On the other hand, all of the back· slapping and yelling in the mailroom is people sharing news of second interviews of acceptances. If graduate school is your aim, first there are the GRE's. Then there are twenty· page applications and the essays and wishing your cum was a lot better. Then there is the waiting for those letters. \I am sorry but we cannot offer you a position in the class of 1991. Your academic record is excellent i>ut. .. \ There is no known cure for seniorities. There are a few suggestions for combatting anxiety. Read the op-ed page of the New York Times during the ten minutes before the in- terview. It has been highly recommended by numerous seniors to try exercises in various forms to relieve stress. Many of the women asked for input for this column observed that women cry and men play sports, especially those in- volving throwing balls. Some seniors suggest going to Albany to dance. Whatever you do, enjoy the rest of senior year, try to relax: once in a while and think positive. Phi Neat Guys 54 ZBT 15 Kappa Alpha 3 Hickok· West Fox North INDEPENDENTS Wasted Goats 19 Floyd 17 SIVVS 7 Killer Squirels 3 Clueless Wonders 2 Express 1 There have now been 12 stumpers in the competition. This Week's Bonus Question: What is the Brady's Home Telephone Number? The final round begins at 8 pm this Sunday Ni ht on WRUC 89.7 FM. now for front row seats to the thesis rnal:'athon beginning this weekend! See how many eco majors can write a chapter faster than a speeding bullet! ! Expect diminished supplies of Coke, Diet Coke, Jolt and coffee everywhere! For those of you preferring the science and tech events in this year's games, don't miss ~he 'do-your- research-project-in-two-weeks' sprint being held in S&E!! (S&M?) And of course, all of the computers and-or printers are going to break down tenth week because of the abuse. The twelve-meter dash to see if your printout is ready yet will be Add to this the worry over whether or not you are going to pass that last liberal learning and top it off with the fact that photography I is not offered spring term and you have the mess which leads to senioritis. -There are no dates to remember this week. These last two weeks are for thesis- research. -Next week is the last Pre- Registration at Union College. Let's hope iii goes better than the first pre-registration at Union College. Do you realize we are the last class to reme..mber beer flowing freely in the Skellar? In your three and one-half years here have you ever submitted anything to the Idol? Only 114 more days 'till the real fun begins. What will we miss the most?? College Name Scholastic· .Guidance ··servic·e· · · ·. ·. · . . · · ·· · ··.. . .·· s()? H~.m.pton Avenue, Scher1~cta<1y,, . New York ·~ 2309. 51 8 ·:- 3·7_7 * 1_· 2 8·9 .- i t ,'

' I l ' I ,{ $ l ·~ { JSU Upcoming Events Feb. 28-Schenectady Jewish Community Center's Film Series Presents: \The Lost Sea\ 7 pm at the Center $2 .. 00 admissions March 3-IN CELEBRA- TION OF PURIM Hamantoshen Sal.e 11 :30 . am - 1 :30' pm College Center and at 8:00pm in Kosher Kitchen Magilah . Reading with \Kiruv\ a dynamic group of students from \Yeshiva University. Refreshemnts will be served. . March 7- Ski Trip to Jiminy Peak meeting at ·Old Chapel at 5:45pm R .. s.v .P. by March 4. Call Dave Novick 372-9224 CONCORDIF.l/SIS, Feb\luary 15, 1988 PageS FEATURES. The Battle is Half the Fun . . .. or How Suffering Builds Character By SUSAN SHAFFER Associate Features Editor Who are you? What did you say? ... Joe Shmoe? No, that's not what I meant. Who are you really, deep down inside, Who are you? Yoa Still don't know what I mean?! Well, We'll Skip the tough questions, on to No. 2! Where are you going? What did you say? ... You were going t() go to class when you finish reading the Coocordy? No, that's not what I meant. Where are You going really, what direction is your life taJ;ting? . Hnurnn, you still don't un- derstand, on to No. 3! Could this be because you don't know the answers? Question No. 4 is an important . one. 'fry t() answer it. How relevant is it for you to know the answers 'to these questjons? these are the last years of our youth, t.be beginning ·of our education ilnd :the· start of our future. The decisions m~de now willaffectthe future anci maybe this itch wlllllave gras;p on our brain f<JL years. I believe college b be the proeess of answering these questims and relocating the itch. Out to Eat With Hersh & Rob.e ,':,. ,i . Upon entering coll~ge, my Itch was located in my mind where it VIas unable t~ grasp itself and throw itself against the inside of my head. At this location. the itch just needed to be scratched and this was ac· complisbe(f through · all of the freshmen ex:citemen.t. 1Now, however, it is pestering me at thebackofmyneckandthere it cannot lJe alleviated. By scratchi:ng it, I run able t<> temporarily cure myself but it won't lea«! me straigllt t() the By ANDREW HERSHAFT trip to the extensive salad bar~ answers. I guess suffermg is and BILL ROBBIN as well as various salads like part of the search. Througll cole slaw and seafo()d~ searchingJor the answers to the The Rain.dancer Steak Parlour Everything, including tile past questions, I was ltoping for- plates, was well chilled, and afl it to m&ve back to where i.t was Big. Everything at the the makings looked fresh. Having just hit the center being productive but .oo sucll Raindancer Parlour is big: the Heeding our waiter's warni!lg point oftbis year and almost the luck! VPl)n finding the answers, restuarant itself, the salad bar,. on the size of our entrees, we ate centerpoint of my college I amalm()st eertain that the itcll the desserts, the check, ami light and basic salads. Both career, these questions have will retum. to the mind: D()esn't even the soda. The steaks are were very good, and HeLsh begun to itch at the back of my that somd like sometbillg to bigger than big. By the end of especially enjoyed his bleu neck and the necks of others. look forw~rtl to ... waiting for an the evening, we felt very big cheese dressing, which he This i$ no doubt a contagious itch to rEtUL\n to yoUL mind? also: described as smooth and annoyance and whether or not Well, believe me, when my The Raindancer is a large creamy. there is a cure is hard to tell. vision is no longer dim I will be restaurant with a multi-faceteci For an appetizer, Hersb had This is all well and true, you a mucll rnore satisfi~ person. personality. It is expensive, yet the fettucci alfredo, one .()f the must be thinking, but how can it It has been said that ibe battle· it has a salad bar an!l. few pasta dishes, ·which was help y()u with your .identity , is half tile fun, the s;earch for something of a family at- large and delicious. It was crisis? Although not everyone is who you are and wheLe you are mopshere to it. The clientele, ill somewhat out of the ordinary, searching for the answers to going ca11also be fun. ']be key is fact, ranged from large as it had mushrooms and was these questions, for those of us to keep an open mm.d and be families to well-dresse!l. cover~d with a layer of m~:!:- who are it is reass11ringto know open to all BDrts of experiences. couples. The interior had a zarella cheese topped with fresh that we are not alone. This itcn RememJ.er that while .suffering somewhat woody and rustic tomatoes. I . chose the elams often tends to reach the brain, builds c:haracte'r, it is un.· flavor; it reminded me of a11 casino, six breaded elams tak~ grasp of it and fling it comfortable and the ~st way t() upscale Ponderosa, which I do flavored with garHe and pieces agarnst the side- of· our heads. - - r~lieve · a:r1 itch .is. to. seratch it.. not mean as a put. dovm, Hersh . of bacon. The bacon flavor was _'fhis ~appens tiJ_ me whenever :rJ.lrougb ~Deviating the itC!h yo11 • di,sagreed, as ~e did not see a11y a 'bit strong,. but they ·were my VISion grows dim and I · ·will ortly- be brought closer tc , ·such resemblance.- ... ·'· J •• ·-sizzlinghptand•ve.Fy.enjoyable. make irrational decisions. But y.our allswers. GOOD LUCK! J We started our eveningwith,a Other· appetizers offered in· eluded shrimp cocktails, King: ''Prince of Failure\ with a Double Life By MARTINA MOORE · Last Thursday, Febr11ary 18, Clarence King was the topic of discussion at the Faculty CoUoquium, as Professor Peter Heinegg presented a lively and interesting account ot King's . life~ · Calling him a \prince of failure,\ Heinegg relayed many of King's adventures, abilities, and talents, and told how King consistenly rendered his efforts at fame and fortWle ineffectual. Althougl! adored by hi£ associates, King la.cked thE \tragic £ense of life'~ that i.s essentf.al for success. Pr()fessol' Heinegg went on t.o give .a brief llis:tory of King's family, saying they were \never a lucky lot.\ He:iruegg also presented a rather llwnorous a..::count of King's secret marriage to a black Wllrnan named kda Todd; with wh()ID he had fiv<e childreo. King never revealed his tme identity to Todd until he was l Cil\ '1 lWQ 01\ S\or ffk Bvc; \ s~\N ~N (GJANA ! \ ~~is -\'KIRD W{)~~O D ~f »t\Jclt lo~&er. f'd do 6'l'lY#Iivb for 17 ~ ic..t .\1.1\ic~ s\'e~Y­ '(\Gk\' '('l)lf/ · Cl<--il< m.tSo b>v. J t~ near death, thereby living a dual life. King's definite preference to dark -skinned women made him a rather intriguing character. Heinegg presented this preference along· with his staunch attitude .()of racism to add another ill· teresting dimension to King' :s life. Although King died pen· niless, and a failure, Heinegg praised his potential. According to Heinegg, King suffered from \the Socratic sin of an une7'- plored life.\ ~~~y~ Uf·- 1\ie(e VJOII • t ·b£ ~I'l-l· urt. j Tickets available Feb. the College Center escargot, baby-back ribs and mozzarella sticks. The fact that cheese sticks are foWld on the same menu illustrates the hybrid of the Raindancer. We ordered the two larg'Cst dishes on the menu; Hersh bad the Rain dancer, the top of the line steak, while I tried the 28· once pritJ::!.e rib. Both were $17.95. Hershes steak was ap- proximately a foot long and very thick. Although it could have been a little tastier, it was tender and cooked right. My prime. rib was huge, very flavorful, juicy and close to perfect; if anytbing it was to big. While good, my steak fries and Hersh's baked p()tatoe, served with sour cream, were not memorable inlight of ()Ur entrees. As usual, we felt it was our duty to sample dessert, even though we could barely move. From a long list of cakes 8nd pies, Hersh picked tile chocolate mousse pie, and I had it with peanut butter. Both were gigantic, sweet, and very riel!; we agreed that the peanut butter mousse pie was the better ofthe two. Hersh felt we woold have liked his better if it had been lighter. The service at the Rain- dancer was excellent. Our hostess promptly seated .us, and our waiter was quick, in- formative, and very courteous. Based on our 1-10 point rating system, relative t() o-ther restaurants in the area and of comparable .price, I gave the Raindancer Steak Parl()ur am B. Hersh agreed. The Raindancer Steak Parlour Route:JO Amsterdam, 'N . 'l. 842-2t'i02 all major credit cards accepted Price, with tax, beforetip: $59.95 • ! .. ; \ ·, ':: \ i !J I \ ' 'I ' ,,, \ t ' ... 1; ~ ·, \ ·~ . \ \.': l' 'c ;i. I I i I ' I ,, ,, ! ' I .. '! I i: 1. I '. ,:· '· 't. I '

j il I i I .• By CRAIG SUMMERS ''Mississippi in My Blood My Blood in Mississippi\ Medgar Wiley Evers (Ju!Jt 2. 1925-June 12, 1963) Medgar Evers loved Mississippi. After serving his country in World War II. ~sa single man with no obligations or marital ties, he could have gone any place in the United States and to any school. l.Jncle Sam was paying the bill,. but Medgar l0ved the rich, f~rtile Missisippi land, the nnany rivers, the tree lined banks, and cially ~ tbe simple (){)en f . . ·ness of bm ne:l.gll~rs. Mississippi was . · · . . ... · .mind you, but Mtl. ~e: a place wheN .. b~ · bel.ti•ng1:)d .. It was a pl;,i:~(! , Wa$: li lfOlltablY· broke the camers back~ Less than a month later~ in tl\tl $Ull qf · night, he was struck dowa by.an assassin's bullet as he ~if;e(t his automobile in frontof1li$l1Qme. The annual Medgar Evers/Mississippi l{()mec()mi- ng is held the first week.end in June to commemorate th~ lif.e's work of Medg.ar Evers. Since the first Homet!{)ming · Celebration in 1973, more than a quarter {)f a million Americans from nearly every state in the Union have seen fit l;o pay CONCOR.DIENSIS, February 25, 1988 Page S The Battle is Half the Fun . . . or How Suffering Builds Character By SUSAN SHAFFER Associate Features Editor Who are you? What did you say? ... Joe Shmoe? No, that's not what I meant. Who are you really, deep down inside, Who are you? You still don't know what I mean?! Well, We'll skip the tough questions, on to No. 2! VVhere are you going? VVhat did you say'? ... You were going to go to class when you finish reading the Concordy? No, that's not what I meaBt. Where are you going really, what direction is your life tak.in.g? Hmmm, you still doB't un~ derstand, on ta No. 3! Could this be because you don't know the answers? Question No.4 is an important one. Try to answer it. How relevant is it for you to know the answers to these questions? Having just hit the center point of this year and almost the centerpoint of my college career, these questions have begun to itch at the back of my neck and the necks of others. This is no doubt a contagious annoyance and whether or not there is a cure is hard to tell. This is all well and true, you must be thinking, but how can it help you with your identity crisis? Although not everyone is searching for the answers to these questions, for those of us who are it is reassuring to know that we are not alone. This itcn often tends to reach the brain, take grasp of it and fling it against the side of our heads. This happens to me whenever my vision grows dim and I make irrational decisions. But tlhese are the last years of our y-outh, the beginning of our e·ducation and the start of our f11t ure. The decisions made now wviilaffect the future and mayl:>e tilis.itch will have grasp on our blram for years. I believe ~11llege to be the process of ~nswerin.g these questions and I~elocating the itch. Upon entering college, rny itch was located in my mind ~llere it was unable to grasp tltself and throw itself against t:he inside of my head. At this l10cation, the itch just needed to be scratched and this was ac- complished through all of the freshmen excitement. Now, however, it is pestering me at the back of my neck and there it c!tnnot be alleviated. By scratching it, I am able to temporarily cure myself but it w.von 't lead me straight to the 11nswers. I guess suffering is (lBrt of the search. Through :searching for the answers to the !J!BSt questions, I was hoping for 1t to move back to where it was \being productive but no such lu:ck! Upon finding the answers, lam almost certain that the itch will return to the mind. Doesn't 'tllat sound like something to 1o-ok forward to ... waiting for an itch to return to your mind? Well, believe me, when my vision is no longer dim I will be a much more satisfied person. It has been said that the battle i~ half the fun, the search for who you are and where you are going can also be fun. The key is to keep an open mind and. be open to all sorts of experiences. Remember that while suffering builds character, it is un- comfortable and the best way to relieve an itch is to scratch it. Through alleviating the itch you will only be brought closer to your answers. GOOD LUCK!! FEATURES. 1 Out to Eat With Hersh & Robe By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBIN The Raindancer Steak Parlour Big. Everything at the Raindancer Parlour is big: the restuarant itself, the salad bar, the desserts, the check, and even the soda. The steaks are bigger than big. By the end of the evening, we felt very big also. The Raindancer is a large restaurant with a multi-faceted personality. It is elq)ensive, yet it has a salad bar and something of a family at- mopshere to it. The clientele, in fact, ranged from large families to well-dressed couples. The interior had a somewhat woody and rustic flavor; it reminded me of an upscale Ponderosa, which I do not mean as a put down. Hersh disagreed, as he did not see any such resemblance. We started our evening with a trip to the extensive salad bar, as well as various salads like cole slaw and seafood. Everything, including the plates, was well chilled, and all the makings looked fresh. Heeding our waiter's warning on the size of our entrees, we ate light and basic salads. Both were very good, and Hersh especially enjoyed his bleu cheese dressing, which he described as smooth and creamy. King: \Prince of Failure\ with a Double Life For an appetizer, Hersh had the fettucci alfredo, one of the few pasta dishes, which was large and delicious. It was somewhat out of the ordinary, as it had mushrooms and was covered with a layer of moz- zarella cheese topped with fresh tomatoes. I chose the clams casino, six breaded clams flavored with garlic and pieces of bacon. The bacon flavor was a bit strong, but they were sizzling hot and very enj.oyable. Other appetizers offered in- cluded shrimp cocktails, escargot, baby-back ribs and mozzarella sticks. The fact that cheese sticks are found on the same menu illustrates the hybrid of the Raindancer. By MARTINA MOORE A.lthough adored by his &ssociates, King lacked the ••tragic sense of life\ that is essential for success. Professor Heinegg went on to give a brief history of King's famlly, ;aying they were \never a lucky lot.\ homage to this fallen lea(ler. Last Thursday, February 18, Clarence King was the topic of discussion at the Faculty Colloquium, as Professor Peter Heinegg presented a lively and interesting account ot King's life. ';::=::==::======:_-J Calling him a \prince of failure,\ Heinegg relayed many Heinegg also presented a rather humorous account of King's secret marriage to a black woman named Ada Todd, with whom he had five children. King never revealed his true ldentity to Todd until he was near death, thereby living a dual life. King's definite preference to dark skinned women made him a rather intriguing character. Heinegg presented this preference along with his staunch attitude of racism to add another in- teresting dimension to King's life. Although King died pen- niless, and a failure, Heinegg praised his potential. According to Heinegg, ·King suffet·ed from ''the Socratic sin of an unex- plored life.\ We ordered the two largest dishes on the menu; Hersh had the Rain dancer, the t()p of the line steak, while I tried the 28- once prime rib. Both were $17.95. Hershes steak was ap· proximately a foot long and very thick. Although it could have been a little tastier, it was tender and cooked rigbt. My prime rib was huge, very flavorful, juicy and close to perfect; if anything it was to big. While good, my steak fries and Hersh's baked potatoe, served with sour cream, were not memorable inligllt of our entrees. JSU Upcoming Even1s Feb. 28-Schenectady Jewish Community Center's Film Series Presents: \The Lost Sea\ 7 pm at the Center $2.00 admissions March 3- IN CELEBRA- TION OF PURIM Hamantoshen Sale 11 :30 . am - 1 :30 pm College Center and at 8:00pm in Kosher Kitchen Magilah Reading with \Kiruv\ a dynamic group of students from \Yeshiva University. Refreshemnts will be served. March 7- Ski Trip t() Jiminy Peak meetin(J at Old Chapel at 5:45 prn R.S.V.P. by March 4-. Call Dave Novick 372-9224 of King's adventures, abilities, and talents, and told how King consistenly rendered his efforts at fame and fortune ineffectual. l ct~l'l '1 LIW ov. ~~is tKIKO woR~o D~r »1\JC~ !o~ver. f'~ do 2~\Y+hiv6 (or q nic~ .\lil\c~ sw-.¥- '(\6h1 Y'IJVV · (jA-.\l'\o\ so I;>V ) }0 \\11ny Uf .. \\\ere 1f1i)ll 1 t VR 'd~ Lt~.f. As usual, we felt it was our duty to sample dessert, even though we could barely move. From a long list of cakes and pies, Hersh picked the chocolate mousse pie, and I had it with peanut butter. Both were gigantic, sweet, and very rich; we agreed that the peanut butter mousse pie was the better of the two. Hersh felt we would have liked his better if it h.ad been lighter. The service at the Rain- dancer was excellent. Our hostess promptly seated us, and our waiter was quick, in- formative, and very courteous. Based on our 1-10 poQint rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave the Raindancer Steak Parlour an 8. Hersh agreed. Tickets available Feb. 29th in the College Center The Raindancer Steak Parlour Route30 Amsterdam, N.Y. 842-2602 all major credit cards accepted Price, with tax, bEfore tip: $59.95

Page 6 CONCORDlEJVSlS, February ZS, 1988 FEATURES First greaders at St. John's Volunteering at St. John's By TRACEY PRYLUCK Students in the kindergarten, first, third, seventh and eighth grade classes at Saint John's Catholic School have been benefitting from the voluntary assistance of Union College students for the past several years. These students, of which there are approxiinately eleven at the present time, work at the school, generally one day a week, as aides to teachers in the different grade levels. . There are presently four students working regularly with Mrs. Tibbittsen in the kin- dergarten. These students assist in cutting out patterns, designing bulletin boards, and in testing students individually on the alphabet, numbers and shapes. They also provide missed class days or are behind in a certain skill. The ·Union students also assist in doing art projects with the first graders. Mrs. Templer has two students assisting her third grade class. They work with one student in particular with math problem solving. Mrs. Templer feels that these tutors have been helpful in improving this student's self-image, as well as her math skills. JW1ior Dan Clapper works with the seventh and eightll grade classes in technology and art. He works with the eightll grade at least once a week, and with the seventh grade once every other week. Dan has been involved in the tutorial program for the past two years. He has helped the students, not only Coloring for credit at St. John's additional assistance to students in math and reading, or in catching up after ab- sences. R. J. Donohue, who has been working as a kindergarten aide for the past two years, feels that the program is beneficial. It gives him an opportunity to \interact with children of that age, and the kids get more personal attention. The program is fun and there is no pressure. It provides an outlet.'' There are three students who have been working continuously with the first grade this tenn. They have been described as being \very helpful\ in tutoring students one on o;ne who have with the subject matter, bu.t also by serving as a role m[)del and showing them that they need not fear college students. The St. John's tutorial program is open to all Union students. It requires only one hour per week~ working as .a kindergarten aide or math an'<i . reading tutor. Sponsored by the Newman Club, the program is organized by Sister Joan from St. John's. Mrs. Dean, tb.e librarian at the school, coor- dinates the program at St. John's, ·and Kristen Nelson serves as the Union College student liaison. Students in- terested in working at St. John\s should contact Kristen at 43&4. Dr.-vaenkmen will cur~ your soul. Write to Box 778 or Concordiensis. . ' Phi(osophy Forum . . . ''Patterns in Wide ··and Slo __ wly Spread Disease·s: Are You Included.?'''· By·CHIDSEY DICKSON Dr. Ernest Druckel\ professor of epidemiology and social medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, informed us last Thursday about three important aspects of the AIDS epidemic in the U.S.: 1. \The HIV Type III virus is quite capable of getting througb intact tissue,\ he said, althougll its passage is facilitated if the tissue is ruptured (as in the case of anal sex). There are specializ,ed cells (macrophages) that circulate in ·our blood stream that actually \reach out\' with· an arm a!ld grab foreign bodies in order to ingest {destroy) them with hydrolytic enzymes. The problem, of course, isthat the HlV virus gets the better of these well intentioned defense cells. The significance of this fact is that the AIDS virus can enter the unperturbed vaginal wall: that is, heterosexuals are at risk though a significantly lower risk. Epidemiologically speaking, this means that the virus will infect the heterosexuals at a slower rate thus giving-them all the appearances of being \safe.\ Perhaps, Drucker seemed to indicate, the rno.st deadly asp~ct of AIDS is that it inspires confidence in a large body of potential victims whil€l it slowly and surely infects them and then kills them. This is a rather clever strategy and not so very different from the Alien organism of the movie \Aliens'' which, you'll remember, cultivates a field of potential human beings only to harvest them one by one. You remember the scene. Too gruesome, really, but the unlucky thing is that the AIDS organism is just as na~ty but also real. 2. · Druck~r superimposed various demographic maps of- Brooklyn, N.Y. which, to no one's surprise, showed a con- centrated area of shading in those neighborhoods that were segregated, poor, had high crime, had high teenage pregnancy, hadhigh drug abuse misuser population, andhadthe highest incidence of AIDS cases. This correlation might lead us to draw the conclusion that the community at larg-e is not at risk-neither being poor notl.V. drug users not an ethnic minority (which is largely uneducated but fully ex- perienced in sex). Indeed, Dr. Gould wrote and defended an article published in Cosmopolitan asserting just this. While it is true that Gould is not, as Drucker pointed out, . an epidemiologist; he has, as Drucker failed to point out, produced some rather in- teresting statistics. Gould claims that many fig:ures which indicated that the study might have been skewed were not introduced into the reports filed by the CDC and other ·· organizations whose interest {though it may be humanitarian) is, n<>netheless~ to conv~y to the general populati()n that they are vulnerable to the virus attack. For instance: in the U.S., .for heterosexuals, there are 2033 AIDS cases with 1120 dead; however, Qne half of those cases are from Africa aad have no significance to the U.S. Since sanitary conditions (blood transfusions, etc.) in that country are far belbw those in the U.S. Furthermore, 60 percent of the heter.()sexu,~ls in the CDG study ~dmltted having anal intercourse. These ob- scuredfactschange our outlook on just h()w likely the \not as high risk\ group is to contract Looking for a Good Time? ' AIDS. However, all this, as 1 said in p()int 1., is simply besidE the ·point. As Drucker pointed out, in. Hl85, the South Bronx (poor section) had the highest incidence of AIDS ill the city. In 1989, it Will be its neighbor, the North Bronx (mlddle class district) who will claim that statistic. All auxiliary studies that show that the actual risk to heterosexual is less than we'Clre led on to believe, I feel, only provic;le fuel to the raging and . ravaging fires of the epidemic. Slowly and faithfully the virus will enter the heterosexual blood pool since we already know (for certain) that it can enter the biologically and morally intact body. . Like wild parties, orgies, and porn movies? Join Circle K! No, we're only kidding~ we just wanted to get your attention. Actually we are a volunteer community service organization. But, if , you are looking for a good time and want to help other less fortunate people have a good time, tb.en we are for you. In the fall Circle K saw a lot of activity. We visited Ellis Hospital and organized a Halloween ·party in the children's ward, we went to the Union Home for the Aged, and we conducted a spare change drive. Our recent Valentine's Day flower sale was a great success. In the future we are planning a skating trip with 1he girls' club, a skiing trip with the boys' club, and another nursing home trip. We have a lot of good news. Our club president was elected Lieutenant Governor for the Capital District. Congratulations Alex! We are also fortunate to be hosting tne Capital District's convention for its board members on March 5. · Finally, we are excited to be able to sponsor the Special Olympics at Union to. be held early next fall. Our weekly meetings are held at the College Center on Tuesday nights at 7:00 on the second floor. So come out and join the fun. We hope to see you there. Home SWeet Home :Qy MARJO~IE HOFFER Freshman year, when I went home for a weekend, (if and only if it was for the most vital reasons)-! was paranoid that life at Union was going ()n without me. But now; three years later, a weekend at home is a lot more than a welcome break from my two-:by.-fcW' room. . During a weekend road·trip hOme·-! get along with everyone, my sisters and my parents. I can do as many loads of wash as I want. My clotlles get dean, and it doesn~t cost me any quarter$. Nobody is glling to ptill my wet clothes out of the dryer. I have a clean towel after every shower (but I coUldn't. even take a bath if i the bathroom all to myself. I can eat real food off real plates, without busing a tray. Also,' if I don't like what's for dinner, there is a huge well stocked refrigerator full of alternative meal ideas ... Needless to say, the greatest · luxury for those off the meal plan is the dishwasher. When I go to sleep in a freshly made bed, I don't worry about falling off my loft. Neither a fire drill or a bunch of pledges singing annoying songs will wake me. If I decide to treat myself to a long distance phone call, I don't have to pay for lt. I :can watch atlYT.V. show I desire. Also, if l go for a. run, and have a spill-no one is there to Witness it. 3. Finally, and most im- portantly, Drucker pointed out that a discussion of how to combat AIDS is essentially a discussion of how to teach sex: educati()n and this country is damn \poor at that!' Eighteen years ago, Swed·en im- plemented a Sex Ed program. Today, there is 110 indication that less sex occurs in Sweden or, for the benefit · of our- Secretary of Education, Phyllis Schaffiey, Jimmy Swaggart, and otber esteemed prudes wllo insist that sex: taught means sex thought (and we all know wllat sex th(>Ught means), that there is any indication tbat more sex occurs~ What does not happen as often (10 percen.t less, to be exact) is teenage preg- nancy. ·And ()ne would think, .if AIDS g-ets to be a problem in that country, tlley will already have a jump on it since it is KIDS and YOUNG ADULTS who need to know cost effective and biologically directive methods for advoiding pregnancy and tile inimicable spread of disease. On a filial note, . to give an. indication of how .Sex Ed is going in t1lis puritanical society, Drucker said that \if a hispanic woman introduces a condom into a relaticmship, she is.considered a whore •• , Do we need better sex education? · Draw your own conclusions bUt, l feel, if the questi()n comes c)own to wbat we, as a nation, hold dear to e>ur heart, our m!lral or our . biological fiber, it would be L..------------------....11 wanted to). Best of all, I have · Best of aU is getting my hair cut by my very e>wn })air~ dresser! · another, less figurative and consequently more painful,. fan from Grace if we chose the fonner. I' J j l

., ·' I· j CONCORDIENSlS, February 2:$, 1988 · Page i \Toolies\ - Humor· Book About Engineers Stephen . Clark, P,E., a rnemberofthe National Society of Professional Engineers, has . written what appears to be the first humor book· about engineers, the engineering ,profession and its · various . aspects, and those studying to be· engineers. In the tradition of bestsellers tike The Oftical Preppy Hand· ~llolJk and The Official Lawyer's Handbook, we now have \100LIES: The Official Hand· llook of Engineers and Applied ~cientis1s, This tongue-in~cheek ~end-up of the \Toolie\ takes a l!umorous look at the nuances and foibles of engineers, ar- .chitects, draftsmen, surveyors, 'technicians, programmers, and \other people who feel dressed up wearing at least one article of khaki clothing.'' Here, foibles of the Toolie, and his demented counterpart, the \Artsy~Craftsy\ (anyone who is not a Toolie) are thoroughly explored, in such $Ubjects as \Excitement - Livin,g Without It\ \Clipboard Diplomacy,\ \The Tooiie Hall of Fame\ the \Social Toolie'', and much more. A complete Toolie Aptitude Test is provided to help determine whether the reader ranks among \real\ Toolies. There is also a ranking of the top 30 \Tool Schools\ in ,the country, divided into two groups: ''Excellent Tool Scb.ools That Look Like Excellent Tool Schools/' (~uch as MIT and Cal Tech and Union); and \Excellent Tool Schools That. Look Like Excellent All-Around Schools,\ (such as Cornell and Stanford). Clark, a consulting forensic engineer, is president of Clark Engineering in Norfolk, Virginia. TOO LIES, which is his first effort into the publishing world, is · published by the Donning Company- Publishers, 5659 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Norfolk, VA 2350?, and available in softcover for $7.95. What Toolies has to say about Union ... (Ranked 11th behind MIT, Cal Tech, Rensselaer, Harvey Mudd, Rose-Hulman, Rice,. Case-Western, Carnegie Mellon, Worcester Tech, and Lehigh) ''Union College, located near the state's capital of Albany, is justifiably proud that in 1845 it was the nation's first liberal arts school that had the good sense to introduce an engineering program. This move, however academically admirable it may be, probably helps account for. why few people outside of New York are familiar with Union College. Three quarters of UC's are from New York. Eighty-three per- cent of UC's very capable student body graduate in the top filth of their high school class and 67 percent score over 600 on the math SAT\ (Personally on that last point- I beg to differ.) ·schenectady: .• A Trip Through Its Wrier By CARL FRIEDRICH Last Saturday, despite the weather, lwas \Unioned\out so l rang up a friend, and decided to iake a walk about in downtown Schenectady: Desperate, you say? Perhaps, but you'll never . · k.tl.ow .... j ~ )I _,.. • •• :,.~ ... The~ hour ~ or; sQ we spent drifting was a quite enlightening experience. I had come to Union hearing all the complaints which accompany the city,. but seldom the good. On this day we began to find that good. Our trek began with a stroll through what I like to call the \psychadelic\ section of town, the walking street near Proc- tor's Theatre. The shops tnere are different, to say the least, but whether you are a staunch ·conservative like myself or a national correspondent. for the Jerry Garcia Band, fun can be had here. The shopper, or in my case browser, can take his time, enjoy himself, is not rushed, and is treated kindly by the shopkeepers. From here our travels took us to the adjacent theatre. area, which can be considered Schenectady's heart for all intensive purposes. Clothes anq . merchandise stores dot the walks along· the road, offering anything from custom suits, to casual wear. Praetor's, of course, is obvious, but outside of its use as a playhouse, it also adds a majestic look to the section. As we made our way along the street, we ran into a sort of \highlight'' ofthetrip if you can call it that. It might sound strange to call a newstand a highlight, but it was not your average newsstand. From the outside it looks plain· enougb, but once inside, it is a trip back to simpler times, the 40's a golden time in America. A continually swept hardwo()d floor lies underneath the narrow but long store, which is divided into . two sections. In the front parallel racks of newspapers and magazines line the walls while the back .is reserved for best selling paperbacks and nosU;\lgic photos. The appear· ance was topped off like a cherry on a swuiae with the presence of two antique Coca- . Cola machines, both in use, both pumping out cold bottles for a mere fifty cents. Also present was an ancient pinball machine, on which a regUlar was leaning, cheWing a cigar, and J.1eading the Racing Forum. For some reason, I suspect he's been there forever, and will continue to. . , . The owne:t (who w:as hidden for most o£ our visit behind stacks of cigar and candy trays), was as much a part of the environment as anything else, dressed in a suit and tie with his sleeves rolled up~ hands covered in newsprint. From the newsstand, we ventured our way through an army-navy and antique store, respectively. Here we foWld much of th~ same flavor and hospitality as in our previous stopS. The .antique store was especially nice because of the presence of many· old beer lamps and toys which my father told me about \when he was a boy.'; By the time we decided to head home {after a mandatory . Kentucky Fried Chicken stop) the sun was shining, believe it or not. Walking through the stocltade on the journey home gave us another perspective of . Schenectady_ a~ well, tpat.being 'the historical orle, as well as its reputation fCJr being one of the nicer areas in the town. The next time you are feeling lazy and bored, or you \feel like doing something but you don't know what,\ slip on your boots and take a walk. The author has taken the liberty to omit the names of several of the stops so the readers can find them for themselves and enjoy them also. And a final note on Schenectady-- don't believe everything you read or hear about it (especially in this ar- ticle!) -find out for yourself, you may be surprised. Downtown Schenectady TOP 10 THINGS ALF WOULD DO AS PRESIDENT. ·av DJK & TMW· 10. Moment of silence in schools for the destruction of Melmac 9. Make lewd phone calls to Pat Robertson- collect! 8. Appoint Fawn Hall as President's secretary/grooming aide 7. Have the Monkees open for the President's State of the Union Address 6. Threaten Canada until they tum all their cats over to us 5. Send Rejected Domino's Pizzas to Ethiopia 4. Bomb Colonel Quadafy's tent with surplus Canadian cats 3. More skin on HBO! . · 2. Ban \E.T.\ for being silly and \Aliens\ {and Xenophobe) for being discrimin;;ttory 1. Make \Gilligan's Island:- the 51st state . FEATURES. Stephen Clark, the author of Toolies Posting Policy If you have ever posted a sign in the College Center, and the11 two hours later it was gone? Are you ever desperate for a ride home and lack the basic fundamentals of a car.? What if you ow11 a gas guzzler and want some help paying for the fuel on your road trip to \out-let. city\ in Maine?'Ride givers and riders cru1 now post signs, anyone· can post signs: BUT ONLY WITH · PERMISSION FROM TBE OFFICE OF THE COLLEGE CENTER. The following list are the rules and regulations for the little known facts about the college center, (aside from the ones we know, like not walking on the blue tiles)~ COLLEGE CENTER POSTING POLICY This policy has been developed by the Office of the College Center to: a) provide ameasure of safety for Urrion students, b) provide a more helpfu1 system of advertising and iillomiing, c) ul:illz:~: ~v.alfable P9sting space~ , . • . , . \ , . ', . ~ -' ,\'-.. : .... ·,¥,~'-'\:.- 1. All signs MUST be approved by the Student Activities/College Center Office located on the fourth floor of the College Center_ Signs without proper authorization will be removed. 2. Flyers/Posters are only allowed to be hung on bulletin boards. They are not allowed to be hung Dn walls, doors, windows, pillars or other locations. Bulletin board locations: Across from Mailroom on first floor Lobby of College Ceqter Second, Third and Fourth Floors 3. The sponsoring organization is responsible for removing outdated posters; student information booth workers and program facilitators will assist in keeping the bulletin boards current. 4. No one is permitted to hang a sign over another sign. 5. The bulletin board across from the mailroom is designated as the \Rides Needed/Available Board. Forms for requesting rides can be obtained in the Student Activities Office or at the Information Booth for posting. ONLY PROPER FORMS MAY BE USED. 6. The glass case outside of the Auditorium is available for special! .c:ijsplays. J>lease contact the Student Activities/College Center Office in advance. 7. Before distributing table tents or other adverti~ements in the Dutch; Hollow Restaurant or the Upperclass Dining Room, permission must be received from the Director of the College Centt:r and the manager ofthe specific food area. Suggestions/Comments regarding this or other College Center policies should be directed to Jerri Clark, College Center #407. 1;0LLEGE CENTER POSTING POLJCY FOR RIDES - - - . Students should be cautious when accepting rid~s tro;.t or offering rides to ·unknown individuals. The responsibility- for senSible decision-making remains with the lndh'idua.ls involved. In order to provide a measure of safety for Union students, the followJnt; policy regarding the posting of rides will be enforced as of Janutt~;· !!.1., 1988. a). specific ride forms are available in the Student Activities Oflice and at the lnformaiton Booth b) in order to be posted, these forms must be stamped at the Sru:k~n1 Activities Office c) the designated posting area is located on the infonnation boaJ'lfl directly across from the mailroom. Ride requests violating these guidelines will be removed~ QTHER COLLEGE CENTER POLICIES Please: no pets, no bikes, no smoking in the College Center. No food, beverage Qr smoking is allowed in the Auditorium. Individuals/Groups may reserve rooms in the College Center ill:Y contacting Central Scheduling at X6098. If ' . .',l. ,'!' 1 ;, :I .

Page 8 CONCORDIENSlS, Febtuary 25, · 1988 0 ~ w z ~ a: I (,.) iO 0 0 I a. INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Life With 18 Million People By ANDREW MARIEN-EFRON . Mexico City is the largest city II! the world and still growing. Smce the Aztec empire, Mexico has ~en a center of political economic and social exchange: It was the apparition of the Aztec god, Quetzalcoati who appeared on an island in Lake Texcoco as an eagle with a snake in his mouth which told the Aztecs that this was their land. The Aztecs out of this marshland constructed on the islands of Lake Texcoco their great empire. It was not until 1521 that the Aztec Empire was destroyed and conquered by Hernan Cortes and all its enemies. The Spaniards destroyed and Tenochtitllln. (Mexic<J City). Over 2,5 million motor They established their own city vehicles are in Mexico City. ontop.oftbtrpyramids.andother These cars create a serious Indian constructions. 'I'he pollution .problem. As a cona major unct·ertaking of the seq,uence a process ealled Spaniards was the draining of ~hermo-inversion has resulted Lake Te~co.co. This un- m a great many deaths. This dertaking . was accomplished process is one in which the with for<:ed labor. The native pollution rises• and forms a tribes surro1.1nding Tenochtitlart layer in the atmosphere Which were ensla;red and converted to reflects great quantities .of heat. catholieis[ll. 'Il)e Mexican government has Mexico City also survived taken sev·eral actions to several_ \Vars. These major alleviate this hazard. · ~att1es mduded the battle of ~ese include the opening of !Jldep~ndence, 1810; the U.S. prnnary and secondary schools mvaslon, 1845; the French later,. at 10:00, January through occupation under Maximilian; March, the winter :months, and tt~e Iilexican Revolution. when thermo-inversion is at its The city also survived several worst point. epidemics and nataral The mayor of Mexico has also disasters. 'These include the proposed that every car and SeJ?t em.bei 19.85 earthquake truck driver volunteer not to Stephanie at Stonehenge, she left it still standing. ransacked the city of which killed over 10,000 ,people. drive one day a w~ek. Other The earthq:uake paralyzed the measures are being taken in Chivalry Alive in city. 'lbe Mexicans were in order to reduce the pollution shock antt disbelief at the through incentives for damage. It was s:o() in the businesses to move out of the- same formation as we found morning attd the city was risillg Me~co City. England By CHRISTINE HONG and STEPHANIE JARYNA Bath's Environs: This last part of our discussioh of Bath is about its environs. Peter G:abriel fans will be happy to learn that Solsbury Hill is jllSt outside of Bath; and easily accessible by pubhc transportati()n (it takes all of five minutest<> get there.) Moreover, we folllld it to be 'untouched' by tolll'ists. From the top of the hill, we couid see all of Bath and as far as War- ~inster: to the ea:;t. The 'lumpy' hilltop ts a grazmg ground for local cows as well as a pilgrim site for mediev~l · buffs • .who appreciate Solsbury Hill's ancient past (if you're in- terested in knowin~ what it is, feel free to do some research). When we finally made our way up the particularlY steep path- way, we found ourselves in- truding on a seance of several of these history fanatics. Box a small city about la miles ~ut­ side of Bath is the hometov:rn of Peter Gabriel, and his world renowned recording studio is located there. As f<Or other local trivia, Tears For Fears lived further up B~thwick Hill Though the kitchen staff was a bit confused as when to serve the pumpkin pie, the dinner was complete from turkey to all of the dressings. The evening did not end after dinner because the majority of the group managed to get across the street to go to a local night club, the Island Club. There we made numerous dedications to ourselves in the name of Union College. The night ended sometime, though we cannot really recall when and we have some great pic- tures to prove it all really happened. (where we were staying), Prine~ CharlesJ and Princess Diana's country estate w~s also nearby- -the Prince of Wales also had an office in downto\WII Bath. Past notable figures tltat resided in Bath were Beau Nash, Jane Austin and W. Sickert. Group Efforts anll Ex:cursions: As a group w~ managed to have one interesting adventure after another. We had a weekend field trip to London,. a Medieval banq11et complete with costumes and en- tertainment at Caldacot Castle located in southern Wales and saw the play, Henry IV Part I. We also visited many nearby towns including Wells, where we climbed the Tor on a in- credibly windy <lay, Glaston- bury, which is the heart of Arthurian lege11d, Bradfard, Stratford, Corsham, Castle Combe, F arleigh Castle and Combe Downe. However, the highli2bt see:rhe:d to be our Thanskgiving di!1ner. Thanksgiving in England? Well, we made it happen and though our hosts may not have been quit~ as e:xcited about the event as we were, we managed to have quite an eventful evening. Expertly organized by David Berry, our tenn abroad elected president (voted Wlanimously ex:cept for one vote- his own), we had a great sit down, family style dinner at a local pub \l'he Huntsman. One of the· ,best· weekend· excursions we took was with six other-union Coliege students to Dublin, Ireland. Though traveling to Dublin took us almost 2411ours and required us spending the night in the Crewe train station it turned out to be a really fun trip. All we can say about the trip over is to make sure you know when and where to transfer trains and if you must spend the night in a train station be sure it is one that has both benches to sleep on and heat; luckily, Crewe had both. When we finally made it to Dublin, 12 hours later than we expected. and we checked in at a raeter accommodating youth hostel before setting out to see the sights. The shopping spots were off O'ColUlell street and most of the tourist spots as well. We visited the Dublin Castle, St. Patrick's Church, Trinity College, the National Gallery of Ireland and the post office. We also managed to find a great pub, Barry Fitzgerald's which ser\red great Irish Coffee and hosted an entertaining live folk band. With a. few Irish folk songs in our heads ;Ne spent our second day in Ireland visiting a town just outside of city called Wicklow. This seaside village had some great castle ruins and a rather attractive church. On the bus ride back to Dublin, we also managed to see quite a few sheep (never to be confused with pigs), Fortunately the trip back to Bath took much less time than thetripto Dtiblii). and we all had a feeling of relief when we made it home to Bath W:ithout.having to sleep in any train stations. Another weekendtrip we took was to Stonehengeplocated just outside the city of Salisbury. We chose to ride the bus there unlike other Union students who rented bicycles and managed to rWl. over certain four-legged animals on the way. wen, as you pr()bably know, Stonehenge is a bW1ch of rocks, and we are proudto say that we left them in them (no Chevy Chase jokes, wl:ienallof.a sudden it shook for To deal' with the problem of please). over 40 sec:onds. The devastion transportation, Mexico has built Some of us managed to make was ~oncentrated in. several one of . the largest . subway it to Oxford and we must say areas and many government systems m the world in less than that the city is an architectural buildings fell. The city united in 20 years. This system is still wonder in itself. Yes, we did the pulling out live people from the being expanded in a plan to do tourist route- Christ Church rubble c:reated by the ear- away with all the buses which Sheldonian Theater, Bodelia~ thqua:ke.. Many world . pollute the -city when bringing Library, New Cpllege (the orgamzati()IIS came to help commuters from the suburban oldest college in Oxford Mexico recover from the regions. really), and Oriel College: disaster. · · . With all these problems famous for its prestigious Mexico ltas continued to .grow ~exiCIJ City still has a great rowing reputation. We also got a and grow especially within the mght h~e. 1.'here are many cluiJs glimpse of the crew team past 20 yeats. Mexico City has and d1scotaeques avaHable rowing on the Isis as we walked become agreat metropolis as a where Americans' favorite along the river to the pub The result (){ migration of the beer, Corona, may be found. It Head of The River. On th~ way thousands of peasants and may be pointed out that other baclt tQ the t.r~in •. we managed farmers in.to the city in search Mexican ·beers are much better to find the pub, the Bear of better jobs. During the oil than Curona whicl}. . include 'fameusfoi'its·appeatanee•irithJ years, Mexico City contmuedto Noche Buena and Bohemia. movie Oxford Blues. prosper and grow. But, These beers are also London: A Quick Run-Down . recently, great dificits have available at any sporting event greatly hampered development including the famous bullfights We feel we should allocate . and creat-ed over 4Cl percent at the Plaza de Toros the some space to London since we unemplo)ment in the largest largest bullfi~ting ring in the spent so much of our free time ' city in the world. world. Most of the 1() ,000 seats in there. To get from Bath tc Like . manY: large this stadium are protected from London, all that is required is metropolises, Menco City has the natural elements. At this that you jump on one of . the . confrontEd tbe problems of stadium l-ocal and international frequent speed trains. You will overpopulation, pollution and •.soccer teams play. be transported from quaint mass transit. The problem of Mc:;:xico _City is a city that has Bat~ t~ bustling Paddington populatioll is a serious one, for survived many problems and Statwn m London in about one • Mexico is one of the fastest will continue to survive and ·nour. . _reproducing countries in the grow. This city has something What did we see and do there? world. AniDther difficulty is that for everyone and will continue Just about everything, honestly. about one-qnarter of MeK:iao's ;o be the center .and leader in But here's what we recom- total pop~ation lives in Mexico cities of the world. mend: The British Museum rC .. itily•. --------------------- (the Elgin marbles from the Parthenon in Athens)., St. Paul's, Piccadilly Circus and Leicester Squ~r~ (definitely! ), St. Martm s-m-the-Fields Trafalgar Square (only late at night when the pigeons are sleeping), the Tate Gallery (our favorite of all the museums), Regent Street, Kensington High Street,. Holbourne and the area aro~d the University ()f London, St .. James' Park, Haymarket, and Covent Garden. Of course, here are some places that everyone makes a point of visiting: Big Ben and Parliament The National Gallery, London Tower, K.Ilightsbridge (where Harrod's is located), Madam Tussaud's (if you must go, don't go on ·a Saturday!), the Thames, and the American favorite, Hard Rock Cafe. Don't for~et the pubs though they're eas1er to pass by than in any other English city. Our favoritE in London, although we· didn't visit them all, was The Oar- sman in· Holbourne. Unfortunately, space in this paper . is limited, and we've already been slightly long- winded. If yot have any' questions about the term abroad in Bath, feel free to call or s~op ~around campus. Hope yo~ decide to go. After all, ch1valry still exists only in Great Britain. SiUDENT INTERESTED IN A FULL YEAR STUDY ABROAD AT KANSAI . GAIDAI UN,IVERSITV IN OSAKA, JAPAN should see Professor Thomas in Humanities 211 or Professor Thu rslon in S<>cial Science 213 IMMEDIATELY. INTE.RNATIONAL FILMS fel:). 29-A LOVE IN GERMANY (1983), video .Directed by A!1drezej Wajda with Hanna Shygulla, P1otr lysak, Mc;:m~-C~ristine Barroult, Gerard Desarthe. One woman s pass1on become the greatest act of . c.our~ge in this pow~rful~y moving ftim by masteriul Poh~h dlrect~x And~eJ Wajda. A small German village dunng world War II 1s the setting for a tragic .rove affair b~tween a German shopkeeper's wife and .a Polish pnson€rpt v.;ar. A LOVE IN GERMANY is a nightmarish e>eam1nat1on of the ease with which evil is incited among common people. When her small town is turned mad'bY hatred, Paulina's private affair becomes ? public cri~is, an~ th,e villagers must face 1he ?1ff1cult q~estton of.1nd1vldual guilt and responsibility. But th1s is a love story and in that lies the ultimate triumph, · All. filrns and vi~ec;>s eire in German with English . subtitles. The senes 1s free and open to the public. TIME: 8PM PLACE: CC406 - !! ...

CONCORIJJENSIS, February 25, 1988 Page 9 ' Russian-American Exchange By JEANNE DALEY On March 3, 1988 a historic event will occur. This is the date of a signing ceremony whicl1 will confirm an exchange program between the Soviet Union and American univer- sities. The ceremony, which involves a representative from. the American College. Con- sortium andtheSoviet Ministry of Education, will take place at Middlebury College. Terry S~ · Weiner, Associate Dean of Fac;ulty at !Jnion College, is closely involved with the plans. H;e says that Middlebury is the initiating fc;~rce behind the project, particularly its· president, Olan Robison. About twenty schools will be receiving students. Aside from Union and Middlebury, selecte.d schools such as Bowdoin and Bates will be involved. On the a,verage eacli school will accept two Russian students. The students will stay for a full academic year. At Union this means that two students will arrive for orientation and leave shortly after spring ter:m is · finished. They will not be allowed to travelafterwards. This e\change is un- precedented in that for the first time in Russian-American history, young, unescorted Russians, under the .age of 23, are being allowed to directly interact and live in American ~ociety. 1 It is a unique op- porttinity for Union students to develop an understanding of America as seen through the eyes of a Sovietstudent. Union hopes that the pr()gram will be successful and will continue so that in two years time a reciprocal e~change will be instituted. ·Students from Union wanting to go to the Soviet Union would be required to have t;:~ken three years of Russian. As this would leave the program open only to SE!niorsor students who ·have a previous background in Russian, Union will subsidize tw:o summers at Middlebury in preparation. If a degree of' fluency is demon- strated, the Middlebury program is not a prel'equisite. An ability to use the. languqge, however, is, crucial as all courses will be taught in Russian. For the seniors, or students hesitant aboat staying for ·the .entire year, there is some flexibility in the contJact -which may permit a semester's stay instead. There are certain constraints on the program. FOO' instance, fifty percent of the courses taken must be outside the student's major. This holds for beth the Russian students and the American students. This Kaleidoscope - The Fashion Show ·By C4-UDINE KLEIN • , t L ~· Kaleidoscope, the fashi51n show, started as a graup o.f people, some friends, but mostly acquaintances, getting together to work on an annual project. However, what resulted was exciting en• tertainment given by ''good friends.\ With such a diverse group of people, from so many different countries and states, how could it not be exciting:? Basically, getting to know these people was more than half of the fun. Well, after the initial phone calls and selection of par- ticipants, rehearsals began on an infrequent basis, about once a week. During rehearsals we practiced how to walk, turn, and move our shoulders to the beats of various music selec- tions. Next, we learned how io walk in pairs, and eventually in groups of three. These practices increased as the date of the show drew nearer, and towards 1 the end we were getting together at Ieast three nights: a week.. Our next endeavor was the actual shopping for the clothes. This is where a lot of the hm started to come in, for we made three road trips. It was on these trips that we really got to know each other. We would talk, tell j()kel:l,. a11q liste~ . to music~ basically·,. ju~t, .hav'~ . ~· goocl: time. The shopping was fun too. Truthfully, it was amazing for we could select just about any item we wanted. There were only a few limitations. Our three trips included Poughkeepsie, Crossgates and Mohawk Mall, and the Cohoes area. One of the trips was taken. in a big snow storm, which made for quite an in- teresting'-evening. Well, finally, February thirteenth;the· day of the show arrived. This was a very hectic day, for we bad to organize the groups and match the clothes so everything w:as nicely presented. Why did we wait for the day of. the show to do all of those things? Actually, we had no choice because we were not able to pick up the clothes any sooner. Despite all of the last minute rushing around, and trial runs, 'at 9:05 we were ready to go. The moment we had been anticipating and practicing for was here. ·Initially we were. ail quite nervous, but as the show cou- tinuedwe became more relaxed and eventually just had a great time. It was an experience that all of us will always remei)lber, for not only did we suc,cessfully \pull off\ the sho\v, but we also made new friends. - . . INTERNATIONAL FILM SERIES Tuesday. March 1 Milos Foman, The Loves of a Blonde (1965) Milos Forman's delightful comedy reflect all the pathos and awkwardness of po.sf-adolescen1 love and provides an amusing view of life in prov incial Czechoslovakia. A factory girl who is bored • · with her existence falls in love with a jazz musi~ cian and follows him· to Praque. When she arrives unexpectedly at his r>arent's home, to visit him, she creates an eml>arrassing situation. would prevent concentration in one area and allow for a true experience in liberal learning. For the most part, the ex- change will be self-selecting. The very challenge of .placing oneself in a culture as radically different as Russia's leads to such selectiveness. Further, the language e:&ipense and .requirements will not allow the number of students accepted to expalld a great degree. The number will probably remain at two or three. Aside from a student exchange, there is also the possibility of a faculty exchange. -------------------------~~--------~--------------------------------- The exchange should prove to be a very exciting experience. American students . will · be plaeed in universities which are not e£Iuipped for the purpose of accepting Americans. They will be placed in regional univer- sities. These universities are of excellent quality artd very rigorous. The student will al~o go on several subsidized trips. In thls way the students will see the real side of the Soviet Union and gain an intimacy with the Russian peQple which is a unique exp~rience. Both sides of the exchange provide an opportunity for America and the Soviet Union to improve relations and an opportunity for their citizens to learn. Politics of South Africa The MQdern Languages Departm~mt is sponsoring a GERMAN POETRY READING · Marianne Gruber An Austrian poet and writer will read f.rom her works Mondav. Februarv 29 at 2 P.M. in Humanities 117 . We a~e very fortunate to be able to bring Marianne Gruber to our campus. Gruber was born and raised in Vienna and . began to publish short stories, science fictio'n, essays, and poetry in !itarary magat;ines in 1974. Since 1981, she has . published three major:, ac- ciaimed novels: Die glaserne Kugel, Protokolle der Angst, and Zwischenstation. She has received many literary prizes for her fiction as well as poe- try. If you speak any Ger.rn,an, please come to this special event. There will be a recep- tion in the Humanities Faculty Lounge afterwards. By CANDY MILLS, , When asked what C(llllltry I would most like to live in besfdes the UnitedStatoes, more often than not, I reply South Africa. To most, this is a jaw- dropping revelation since I am a politically outspoken,_ black female. Why South Africa? Because its policy of ap;actheid is viciously wrong!. .And I would be no less visci~us if I allowed it to exist witho11t any attempt on my part to per- sonally see an end to it_ As an Afro-American in South Africa, perhaps, I could mak~ a dif- ference no matter how small but everso more import;antly, I could witness firstharu:l the moral and political crLmes of this republic. The Republic of Souill. Africa is the only country in th:e world with a white minority ;govern- ment. How, can . six: million whites feasibly,. conir-ol .aml severly limit all ·aspee~ of the lives of twenty-three million blacks? Physically, South African blacks out11umber South African whites 4 to 1, however, politically, it is the Afrikaners, people · ()f mainly Dutch descent, who !'1lle the country. Apartheid-or racial separation-was made an of- ficial policy in 1948 after Daniel Malan's Nationalist party came into power. Ap~rtheid i~ based on the doctrine of white supremacy. It excludes the country's black majority from participation in gove~rnment, separates blacks and whites in public facilities, and coDfines all blacks to black homelands-ten s.eparate bantustans-formed 011 only 13% of the land area. A 1961 constitution Jl'rovided . for two houses of Parliament, whose Electoral College named the chief of state. A prime minister led the majority party. Only whites, 18 years amd. older were allowed to vote. A new constitution in 1984 created the offi.ce of Executive State President replacing the former parliamentary government with a .strong president. Pieter W. Botha, Prime Minister since 1978, was sworn in as ~resident on September 14, 1984. Though the new constitution allowed Indian and mixed-race people into Parliament made up of three racially separate chambers, it is the white chamber ' of the Electoral College that selects the President. The major parties in the white chamber are the Nationalist Party led by President Botha-133 seats out of 178, the Conservative Party led by Andries Treunicht-23 seats, and the Progressive Liberals led by Colin Eglin-20 seats. Blacks-70% of the popUlation-continue to be excluded front .particip~iit!on . in government under the new constitution . The first major protest against apartheid by militant blacks occurred in the latter half of 1984. This led to a state of emergency being declared twice in July 1985 and June 1986. The nationwide state of emergency in june 1986 em- powered the Police to make arrests without warrants, banned negative press. reports and detained thousands of black activists indefinitely. Elections in May 1987 increased the power of President Botha's nationalist Party. The far-right Con- servative Party replaced the· Progressive Liberals as the official opposition. The political situaion in South Africa will worsen.before it gets better. Many South Africans, both white and black, will un- doubtedly lose their lives as the blacks struggle to regain their right to rule, their individual freedom and most importantly, their dignity. lnternatio'nal Issue By AIME SIMON International Feature-s Editor Question: What are your feelings about the fact against tile Contra-aid bill? that Congress voted Michelle Maratto ('89) - I think that Cor:~gress should give the contras aid to protect human rights in the region. It's wrong for the United States to desert the people. Becky Thayer ('90) - I think it's about time that Congress stopped spending our money for the Nicaraguan rebels to pillage the!r own people. 'Mostpeople base the1r opinion of the Contras on the Sandinista~s media hype. HoWe\ler, what they would find out if they talked to a social volunteer who's been working in Nicaragua for 1he past two decades, the Sandinista regime is the best thing that's happened to the Nicaraguan people in several decades. The government is slipp()rtive of the people whereas the Co111tras simply pillage their own towns and murder innocent people, not Sandinista supporters, as the media would have you believe. Patrie!< Perivier - I think the Congress made a wise decision, becallsG I cannot seta wily the United States should interfere with Nicaragua's domestic policies; When the USSR invaded Afghanistan, the USA was one of. the first countries to, &xpress its disapproval. So Why srould the US be able to do what anoth.er country should not do? I would like to add ihat the United States, as every so· . called democratic country, ought not to interfere with the right of a people to choose its own destiny. Jack Markis ('91) - I believe that this is a miscarriage of justice in that Congress fails to support a valiant band of rebels who seek to depose a communistic dictatorship I feel that it is not only the nght but the duty of America to ensure that · her own \backyard\ is protected from the ev11 spectre of communist influence. Therefore. I adamantly oppose this restriction upon further aid to these ~freedom fighters.·

Page to . CONCORDIENSIS, · fi'ebtuarj ·zs~ ·. 1988 Union College ,Resident Advisor Selection'88- '89- \l have grown as a person being an RA for two years. I have learned· skills of'organization .. communkation and creativity which will help me in my career. I have made friends in fellow RA's, Area Coordinators, administrators, and floor. residents.\ Colleen· Adinolfi, RA '86-'88' IMPORTANT DATES 4/5/88· Mand,at&ry Interes~ M~eting \I have the best times with the people on my floor because I tJ1ink of them as friends ... bcing an RA isn't work, it's something that I love to do.\ Dawn Buonocore, RA '87-'88 4/8/88 Applications Due, Residence Life Office 4th floor College Center WHAT IS A STAFF TEAM? A staff team is a group of individuals who are placed togethe~ and must work as a team. ·~-~ >fl·~ ~ ... • •• ,._,,. ......... ,... \\\ «\V .... ~.# ........ \' ,.., ......... ~ ...... ..., ~: t· ' .: A ~staff team \i~ ~-group o(peopl~ \¥1io have no tffud' for themselves and yet have time for each other. A staff team is a group of people who support one another when things aren't going well. A staff team is a group of .people who have the respect and at the same time disrespect of residents. A staff team is a group of people who support what is going on in the hall. A staff team is a group of peaple who will be as close as a family when it is time to say goodby~ at the end of the year. Tom Shead, RA - 4/ll/88 Inten'iew Process Begins 4/30/88 Group Process Day \As anRA I've developed meaningftd and lasting friendships with the members of my floor.\ Nilgun Yigit. RA '87-'88 \Being an RA has made me realize my potential while teaching me to understand the ideals of many different people.\ John McQueen, RA '87 -'88 \The satisfaction of helping people:, and being a friend to floor residents is indescribable. The active involvement on the part of floor members makes organizing activities fun. The RA experience has taught me a lot more than what I learn in some: classrooms. What you put into a job comes back to you tenfold.\ Martina Moore,RA '87-'88 \ ... what r-ve learned most about is myself.\ · Ak}t )']. J? ,,'§,\\\''\\\''*=~ .,. ~ ,~,JJ .ftffk~ ·~\%MNw.W;; . .::-,' .,:·._·. i -~ John Meyer,RA '87-'88 \Being an RA has been one oftbemostrewarding experiences of my college career.\ Kyle King. RA '87-'88 \The-sentence 'It's more than a job it's an adventure.' comes to mind after being an RA for close to tw9 Yy1U\S· I',ve fQ.und··IJI)'Self handling problems that I couldn't have imagined dealing with in my wildest dreams. Through these crises, I've learned ~lot about myself and other people. For me, being an RA has certainly been a rewarding and memorable adventure.\ · Eileen Sweeney, RA '87-'88 \When I help someone witlt a f'problem, or bring a diverse group of people together I feel I've accomplished something.\' Lisa Clark~ RA '87-'88 \As an RA I have had a chance to test my leadership slQIIs white helping others.\ Joel McKuin, RA '87.:'88

. CONCORDJENSIS., February 25, 1988 Page 11 NOW. EVENINGS SUNDAY- THURSDAY BEN & JERRY'S WILL DELIVER ON CAMPUS. Th·e RATHSKELLAR l will be taking Work Appl. for .Spring Term. Fe.b. 29 t·hr. March 5 Stop by and fill one out. You've ~ought about it. Yottve tried to imagine what .it would be .Jik~ •. You know it would be exciting. And a challenge. And quite possibly- tbe most rewarding experience of your life ••• Three Americans overseas in Asia, Africa and South America speak frankly on what Peace Corps life is like for them. It isn't easy and it isn't for everyone-they'll tell you that up front. But if you've ever considered going overseas in the Peace Corps, then no.w is your chartce to see and hear for yourself what could be \the toughest job you'll ever love.\ Note: Former Peace Corps volunteers will be on hand to answer questions following the 25 minute film. And it's ·free! FEBRUARY 29th, 7:00PM CAREER DEVELOPMENT OFfiCE for further information please call . Career Placement at 370·6176. U.S. Peace Corps The Novie • ' 1 The Toughest Job You'll Ever Love\ 'J '!j:r]'; 'lj:j'lj:],g'~J i;;Jii'fFl!J::igi{ ~.4}@:>®~®1J ';;'fur::;:! ·r:n.::,\ ·u L~n~H~~;l·:n:!J .:.r> A\jL \VJII\jiiMUM ORDER $10.00 \ WE ALWAYS NEED LEADERS The Air Force is looldag for pilots ... navigat()rs . :.: missileers ... engineers ... managers and ._ .. more Our posi- tions are important You can get one througll Air Force ROfC. As an Air Force ROTC cadet, }OO'llbe ~trained in leadership and management practices. You may also apply for our scholarship program that helps pay college expenses, plus $100 per academic month~ tax free After graduation, you'll have aU the prestige and respon- sibility 'Of an Air Force officer. You'll discOiler a Ile'W world where you'll be challenged to excel ... and rewar(\ed for your success. Let us give you the details today. Capt Brent J. Cote ( 518)276-6236 Leadership Excellence Starts Here THE DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT r is now accepting applications for part-time employment. All shifts available. Apply in person Dutch Hollow Restaurant 9-5 *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men Tanning Tanning Tanning Sculptured Special 1st Visit Free Special Special Nails & Tips Weekly 50 Visits 100 Visits $24.95 6 Visits $75.00 $6.95 $49.95 reg. 35. 00 !with UrJion 1.0: Walk-Ins Welcome *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. 1307 Nott St. 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady 870-4630

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, February 25, 1988 @llllOlrbitttsis ----.-'---Fnund.rJ ut /.luon ('o//~e l!i:.\----- Improved Curriculum Still Needs Work Welcome to tbc third version of General Education. The General Education Board (G.E.B.) presented its new and improved curriclllum proposal to the Academic Affairs Committee (A.A..C.) yesterday. While it is an improvement over the earlier versions,. there are still some serious flaws: some areas of study are ignored, some not emphasized enough, and some problems lie in the technical implementation .of.this plan. In its opening .statements, the G.E.B. says that its proposal \rdlccts certain emphases,\ namely: 1. a refined and rigorous math requirement. 2. a Western h.eri tage component that stresses the relationship of t1J.c present to the past. 3. a strong affi1101ation of the study of foreign language and culture. 4. an incentive tc study non-Western culture. 5. a smallcrmunberof required courses. We believe that the G.E.B. did achieve the goals cited in ' points 1 and 5. 'fhe math (and science) requirements are more strict and more beneficial to tb.e idea of general education. Required courses were reduced from 15 to 13. (For details, see .story page 1.) Until we see course outlines, we can only presume that the G.E.B. achieved its goal in point 2. However, by judging from their statement later in the proposal, th.e G.E.B. will follow up on that intent. The two-c()urse bistory sequence, which must corresp(md with a two-co11rse literature/civilization sequence, poses certain problems. The G.E.B. plan encourages students to fulfill these foar requirements as early as possible as they are meant to prcvide a basis of thought for further studies. This could lnagni fy the problems we already face concerning class close-outs at registration. Students could be trapped int<-> a sequence in which they have no interest. Even if Uni(:ln can guarantee a sufficient number of professors and sections to give each underclassman his or her first choice, the student might later find that the course, and therefore the sequence, is not to his or her liking. One credit is wasted; the student has to begin the sequence again (if possible), or continue in a sequence he or she dislikes. And if the student is a science or engineering major, with a rigorous schedule, there is even less room for error. Providing a basis for coherence is important; it is something that .the present system lacks. A sequence system is necessary; it provides the foundation of the thought of our civilization that students need to build from. But if the College cannot support itself with sufficient staffing, programs, and a \back door\ for students having problems with. the sequence, the system should not be implemented. Learning such a coherent base for thought is virtually worthless if students can't express themselves. The Curricular Alternative Committee plan presented last spring, although. its mechanics were flawed, emphasized communicati()ns as part of the curriculum. That idea is absent from tile G.E.B. proposal. The only \writing\ course mentioned in the G.E.B. plan is f'reslunan Preceptorial, which most realize is an insufficient means of teaching writing. The Writing Across the Curriculum idea should be implemented now, along with other changes. Writing is extremely im}JOrtant, and is still a weak point of the Uni()n education. Writing Across the Cuniculum woilld designate courses in the curriculwnas Wl, W2, and W3 courses, where each would require a certain level of writing. Students would be required to take .a certain number of each type before graduating. W'3' would focus on the highest intensity of writing and wollld involve weekly papers and rewrites. Perhaps the weakest point of the G.E.B. proposal is thal it neglects the Writing Across the Cu-rriculum plan and even the whole issue of writing. Any curriculum proposal must inclu4e an emphasis on writing skills. The new G.E.B proposal does draw one idea from the popular C.A.C. proposal (General Education was only favored over the C. A. C. proposfll by one vote last spring): it includes a minor emphasis on foreign language where before it had ncne at all .. The only emphasis to take foreign language is th.at it would replace a requirement of four courses outside the major with a three-course foreign language requirement. Students have no requirement at all to learn foreign language, which is a pressing concern in today's global society. Despite these problems, the G.E. B. has done a good job revising the initial proposal, but there is still work to be done. The new curriculum cannot be set in stone without addressing ·these concerns. Students can no doubt think of other concern.s that should be part of a Union education. Find your Student fonim representative, get his or her copy of the G.E.B. proposal (they all have one), and channel some of your energy shown on the pornography issue into something vital to Union's future. LETTERS Porno·graphy vyrap-Up: Faculty Views What If It's \Anti- Your Group?'' To tile Editor: Wen I first read that the pornographic film to be screened this week had been cancelled, I 8$SUmed. that settled the matter, and I did not put any more thought into it. Theil, when I read that it had been resurrected and would be subject to debate, I discussed it with ()ne or two students and conel11ded that any thoo.ghtful debate would have to decide against a showing. Obvi()usly I was wrong, and it is my own fault that I did not do an}'thing to <:()ntriblite to the debate. But noVI I read that the committee will be .reconsidering its policy for next year, so I want to go on remrd 'With a few points. One idea that I have not seen in the printed debate is the analogy of this case to the showing of other kinds of movies. For example, the conege does not show overtly 1) racist films, 2) anti-8emitic films, 3) anti-Irish films, 4) anti-Catholic fihns, 5) anti- Italian films, 6) anti-your group films. Then Why does it show fil!lls that humiliate and degrade women? I would argue very differently if the film in question had $0me artistic merit, bat I understand that it does not even qualify as kitsch. For those of you who think thi.s is a leftist po~ition, let me pol!lt out that Prestdent Reaga11 clalll1s that throughout his life he has refused to ::ree the great film \The Birth of a Nation\ by D. W. Griffiths, because it contains a great deal of racism, and his father told him not to watch that kind of film. Some may say, ''What is the big deal? No one takes the fihn seriously, it's all in fWl.'' You are probably right that showing this one movie will not dramatically change the quality of life in America, or even at Union College. But by letting this go, you miss an opportunitY to stop the beginning of a slide down a slippery slope in terms of respect for others. If this is fun, what else might be fun.? Anti-semitic, anti.:black, anti- Swedish, and other anti~group jokes, films, and plays have all been done in fun. Only 21 percent of the study oody voted in the referendum. Th[s rEminds one of llertolt Brecnt•s famous· explanation of thedseDf Nazism. No one cared. as long as the neighbor who was taken away by the Gestapo belonged to a different group, cl11b, religion. Then, there was no one left to protest when they came to get him. W~ do not know what groups voted in the . refe-rendum, but lf Jewish, black, Erish, or other students didnot vote or voted in favor ·of the shoWing, they would not have the right now to expect the support of women in their fight if a film were proposed to be sllown on campus that hiiiililiated their group. .Again, no one is saying that private individuals should be s11bject to censorship. But sllowmg this film under the auspices of the student gov~111ment on campus makes tllis a statement about what kind of place Union College is. And it is not a pretty statement. Sincerely, ,John Christian Laursen Department of Political Science Professor Provides \Consciousness\ ·T.est To tbe Editor: I very much regret the decision of the Film Committee to prDceed with the screening of Insatiable. I commend them for their conunitment to weight the iss11e more carefully next year. To the Film Corn.mittee, and to those who went to see the movie, I recommend the following consciousness-raising exercise, which has helped me in the .past. Erase \women\ from the given situati.on--in this case, a porno film-and sub- Alumnus/Parent . View - next page Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily . reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each 1ues.day before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide th.eir addresses and phone numbers for verif.ication of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis · reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do no·t conform to standard of good taste. stit ute \blacks.\ Imaging yourself watching a film which portrayed Afr<J·Americans as strong but dumb, with child-like personalities and huge sexual appetities, and universally occupying low-status positions, subservient to whites. Would you find such a movie en- tertaining? Amusing? Of course not; you would not tolerate it. Our community would not tolerate it. And yet such films have been made . in the past, and have Editors-in-Chief News Editors Associate News Editors Features Edioors greatly entertained their (aU· \White} audiences. Why are they no ionger around? Because ·our consciousness on this issue has been raised. 1 am not recommending that the Administration prohibit the sllo.win.g oJ a film like lll.satiable, in some authoritarian fashion. I'm meL\ely posing the question to you: why do you tolerate it? Sincerely, Bruce L. Reynolds Department of Economics !)avid Gulliver. IAe Ann Schmidt Cbr:istine Hong, R. Reed Whidden Elise Foody, Daniel Kenhy Mmjorie Hoffer, Wendy Zimmennan Mark Haughtoll; Susan Shaffer Aime Simon, Gary Steinbauni L9ril..eon Associate Features Editors International Features Editors Commentary Page Editor Associate Commentary Page Editor Arts Editors Jason Meshnick J~ Goldstein, :Tim MacLaughlin Jermifer Kove Lisa Marzilli, Kelley Park Chris Hinckley; Andrew Miller Dave Morrison Rebecca Smith· Lisa Brown, Lori Kaplan: Science Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Associate Sports Editor Photo Editor Advertising Editors Associate Advertising Editors Business Mana:gers Honorary Faculty Advisor Laur<~n Feuerman, Kathy Green . Beth Turney :Brad Mondschei:Ii, Kar~ Simons C. William Huntley STAFF: Elizabeth Berliner, Kur(J31eemer. Prabir Chllkrabarty, Lisa Cherande, Joy Cybul, Jeanne Daley,Alan DeSalvio, Jennifer England, Elise Foody, Carl Friedrich, Alex Cardn.er, Pamela Haber, Chris Hartmann, Martin Heck, Andrew :Hershaft, S~phanie Jaryna, Mary Beth Manning, Cathy Markes, Virgillie Melio, Lisa Ordower, Bill Robbins, Tina Sciocchetti, Ezra Slterman, Ellen Tapley, Mark Van Buren, Mark Zimmerman. A'DVERTISING STAFF: Michell-e Atfano, Robin Baskin, Missy Beal, Jill Deutsch, Helene DeVries:, Dina Golas, Lina Leung, Mar.tina Moore, Leslie Morris, Liz Perkowski. PHOTOGRAPHERS: Greg Chronowski, Amy Goldstein, Stan Kitzingcr, Susan Kersch. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body ·of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publicaiton, In-c.~ Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. Subscription rate: $24 per year, delivered anywhere in the Unit~d States. C()ncordlensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP). Office Telepllone (518) 370-6155. · - - -

CONCORDIENSIS, February 25, 1988 Page 13 LETTERS ,· Students Comment on Deans' \High Moral .Ground'' Film Committee Made Fair Decision To the Editor: I am writing concerning the letter which Dean Underwood and Dean Mammola co- authored in last week's Con· cordiensis (S.A.P. Com· mended; Community Enlightened). The letter's tone distUrbed me because it seemed to place S.A.P, on a high moral gro\illd upon which the reSt of the campus should look. First, I would like to speak in defense of the film committee, whose \cavalier-like\ manner came nuder fire from Dean Mammola and Dean Under- wood. From my knowledge of, and interaction with, the film committee, I find them to be anything but \cavalier-like\ in their selection of filros. To me, they seem to be a .gr:o\lp in- terested in bringing movies to the campus which will attract !!f;udent interest. They take their responsibilities eriously, even though their efforts often go unr-ewarded by poor attendance at tbeh\ movies. In support of my argwnent I would 'li:ke to cite three examples: (1) The rescheduling of the mid-week movie from. Tuesday to Wednesday in response to the changes which Gel-time has brought to the on- · campus social life; (2) The seriousness with which the fUm committee discussed among themselves the issue of the pornographic movie {witness the cancellation and then resched111ing of the. ·movie becatise the full comrriittee did : not vote on the inital canl- cellation) ; and (3) tile film conunittee's spOnsorship of an open· forwn to get the students' views on the · fihn alid the subseq!lent vote whic11 turned out in favor ofshoWing the film. In. my opinion, the film com- mittee has made a genuine effort at coming to a fair decision on a conti.\C'versial topic. · · Secondly, I would like to address the scenario which Deans Mammola and Under- wood seem to have painted of the Pomo·Flick Affair (w.bile at the saroe time trying nDt to offend my friends in S.A.P. and AWARE). As I read it,. we seem to have S.A.P. tiding illto town oil horses~ wearing wbite hats, and attempting to ~ave the citizens of Unio11 and Gomorrah. In the end tlley wind up being martyred as life goes on at sophomoric Union. College. I attended the open forum, at which there were valid points made for both sides of the argument, and in my view neither side came out ~trongly on top. Dean Mammola, you were at the open forum also, yet somehow you disreg-ard all points made in favor(){ showing the porno-movie on campus. In the Deans' letter, the)' state: \The idea of a conege com- munity is ... a special.. .com- munity ... marked by a free sharing of ideal$ and goals.\ I interpret this to mean that we shoUld sponsor all and 811Y events within our ·finlYJcial me~s to promote the sh~ring of ideal~ and goals. The effect of the pomography · controversy on the campus t.bis year has been to allow one group to share their ideas on sexism and exploitation while . · another group has $hared its ideas on censoJ,\sb.ip. Both groups share the same g()al of .preventing what they nate. This has in effect created \an at· mosphere that will encourage a taste for the life of the mi,nd, a respect for intellect, and a sense of the range of human possibilities.'' .Finally, as a student dedicated to the exploration of ideas, both new and ()ld, I would like to join Dean Mamniola and Dean Underwood in corn- IPending S.A.P. I would also like to commend their op- ponents in the pomo-dialogue and the AWARE group for their efforts at confronting sensitive and controversial issues on campus. All of their efforts have made Union a more enlightened place, and have hopefully shown the way for future generations of Union activists. Respectfully, Chris Hartmann '8S S.A.P. Reviews Insatiable II: \Dangerous\ To the Editor: We would like to address those . of you who attended \Insatiable II\ last night. Acknowledging this as one, specific pornographic fihn, we would like to point out that this film did indeed contain those elements of pornography which we feel made it inappropriate that the . Filxn Cotnmittee ,scheduled \this film. At this point, we feel it is extremely ,important to stress the fact that we are not opposed to sex on the screen, but to the danger.ous portrayal of women in most ,pornographic films. · Near the beginning of the film, we flas.b back to the star's first sexual experience. She -explains that She wanted to seduce her family's gardener. Yet when they begin to \fool around,\ she repeats, '~no, no,\ and he actually holds ller arms down at some points in the encounter. While she is sttuggling, protesting, and saying \no we know q-uite well that she \wants it\ and that once she gets it,. she'll love it, and, in fact, become ''in- satiable.\ This is exactly the dangerous message tllat lies, often unnoticed, witllin most pornographic . fUffis. That a woman may say \no and appear to mean it but that she never really does mean \no and · she'll love it if the man simply per- sists. In light of past incidents which have occurred at Union, the fact that the seene jllSt described takes place on a pool table was ironic and rather disturbing to us. Another disturbing scene in \Insatiable II\ is one dealing with sado-masochism. After hearing her explain that ·she enjoys \submission we see the star with a rope around her neck, having hot wax dripped on her body, being slapped around, yelling \ouch\ and \no but lovjng it the whole time. Once again the message is there - woman not only enjoy being sexuany conquered, but should be treated, mentally and · · physically, as pieces of meat. We do not claim that you whD went to see \Insatiable II\ last night came out of the movie with changed attitudes toward women, or the sudden belief that women are merely sub-- missive .pieces of meat. Probably you did not even notice these underlying messages. Yet they do exist, and they were quite apparent in the film which you saw. And they are not only degrading and untrue, but dangerous as well. We write this letter to bring to your attention tllat whicb might have gone unnoticed. We ask you to be aware of what you watched last night, and. to unm derstand the basic messages within ~·Insatiable n.\ Think about it. Respectfully, Students Against Pornography GREAT DECISIONS- 1988 MARCH 1 The Soviet Union: Gorbahev's Reforms. How deep and with what effect on U.S.- Soviet relations? Time: 7:30 pm Milano Lounge: Hale House Politicians Equals Porn? To the Editor: Having held my peace for several weeks, l feel that I must finally voice my opinion on a subject that has been ignored while the I»tnographic · film eontroversy raged. While there ilas been mucll discussion on the appropriateaess of such a film on our campliS, whethel\ or not the college supports por- nography by showing the film, and the fact tllat it is our money being used to sponsor the showing, there has been no. mention of a similar iss11e. Does B!lyone recall the two speakers that the Speakers Forum tried to get to s.peak on campllS'? Do the names Bart and Biden ring a bell? While I can find no connection between these two politicians 81ld violence toward women, their other resem- blances to pornography are striking: -These particular politicians are patently offensive to many members of the conege com- mllllity anc inappropriate in light of both the college's recent move onto the high moral ground (Mr. Hart) and the college's long-term dislike of cheating, lying and plagiarism (Mr. Biden ). -No institution is enllanced by a tolerance of 's11ch poor moral exarnples. -College funds and faeilities s.bould not :be used to support politicians of this ilk. I feel that it would be enlightening to the college eommunity to expand on this last point a bit .. What Union has spent ''supporting por- nography~• (about $400) wouldn't keep a freshman on the meal plan for one term. What Unio11 ·would have paid Joe Biden to speak on campus ($3000) would have saved my parents the trouble of mailing in a check fDr Spring term '88. What Union offered Gary Hart ($10,000 plus two first class plane tickets) is pretty much equivalent to what my parents mailed off to a certain Schenectady address this year so I could be introduced ''to the very best that has been thought, written, and depicted through various art fonns.\ Don't get me wrong, I respect the Speakers Forum's desire to get \name\ politicians on campus during this, an election year. I sii:nply must question their most recent choices. I also respect (although I do not agree with) Dean Mammola's stand on the pornographic film issue and his support of the S.A.P.But I must wonder where this supPQrt was during the first three yeats of my stay at Union. If you feel so strongly on this subject, Dean Mammola, why did I have to wait nearly four years to discover it? I trust there is no connection between the unpliecedented outside media coverage this year's filin received and your rush for the high moral ground. Have you or anyone else asked if having such notorious politicians on campus ''might have a deleterious effect on the college''? Probably not, although it is doubtful that Messieurs Hart and Biden \represent Union\ any better than Marilyn Chambers. Having ex:pressed my opinion (and wandered a bit from my topic) I can now return to my apathetic and slightly amused observance of the finall18 days (at this writing) of my college education. Ed Walters ~88 Alumnus Cite \Betrayal\ On Porn '['() the Edit()r: The p()rnographic movie controversy is deplorable. Our beloved Union must feel that the showing of pornography is a sign of 'progress.' How far !i()WD the spiral can a com· munity go? Our country, cities, communiti~s and campuses have takeil a 'd()wn-at-the- heels' look. Where .is the brightness and joy of yesteryear? It hasv:mished and in its place there is _a moral seediness, a loss CJf mnocence and self-restraint. Where bas decency go11ei' Union was built on a strong moral foWtdation by people who came before you. Would they feel betrayed? The Animal House atmospheres at Princeton & Rutgers has resulted in death from verin· dulgence. Where will por- nography lead? Who is to say what effect it will have on the individual now or in the futur.e. How will it affect others? An institution· of higher . learning has a t:luty to see that students. have limits. Why accommodate filth peddlers? Shouldn't a film shown on campus be ap- propriate for the entire college community? Rutgers' campus 'wised-up~ to late. We hope and pray that Union does better. Charles G. Carl '5.7 Julianne B. Carl Editor's note: The incident at Rutgers involved a death duet() hazing. Corrections in Alcohol Contract Tothe Edit()r: First of all, I would like to thank yo11 for printing the \Students for the Responsible Use of Alcohol\ contr.act in the last issue. Since fraternities are· such an i11tegral part of our campus, it is important that the student body be kept up to date on any actions that fiatemities are initiating. However, I thought it my responsibility to mention that a couple of mistakes occurred in the prin- ting of the document that did effect the contracts clearity. The line printed as, \If the potentially hazard()US event is successfully inhibited, then it should follow that your brotherhood will be J)rotected,'' was missing the additional phrases. \ ... your .brotllers will be protected, and your guests will be protected.\ The sen- tence printed as, \A reminder which is not meant to pla<:e anymore guilt from bappening in the first place ... ,\ was ob- viously missing several words and sh()uld have read, \A reminder which is not meant to place .anymore guilt on a society, but is meant to prevent that guilt from happening in the first place throu.gh remem- brance, realization, and recognition of one's respon- sibilities to their society and to the Greek system as a whole.\ l feel that this truly helps to clarify this docwnent for all interested parties. Thank you. Jeffery W. Smith, IFC Alcohol Awareness Committee Chairman ' ....... ··

Page 14 . CONCORDIENSIS,. February 25, 1988 LETTERS ,. College Neglects Snow Removal, Discourteous to Guests Spotlight on \Shades of G:rey'' Editor's Note: Thir!lletter was written for last week's issue Immediately following. the 16\ snowfall. To the Editor: On Saturday, February 13, I had the pleasure of attending a wedding in Memorial Chapel. It was a beautiful ceremony . . . well, at lea~t the part I was able to see was beautiful. You see, I was a little late to this wedding:- and not by any fault of my own. Perhaps I should' have an- ticipated the major problems I would have: first, in finding a parking space relatively close to Memorial Chapel, that was· not buried under a f()ot of snow; second, in managi:ng to walk from this parking space without slipping on the ice, falling, and breaking a few bones. After driving around for about fifteen minutes, I realized I was in for a bit of trouble. When I tried to park in the Administration Building parking l()t, a security officer in a van bloeked the way, and informed me tllat there was no parking. I explained to this officer that I was going to tile wedding in Mem()rial Chapel, and therefore needed to park my car. This very un- sympathetic officer offered no .suggestions, but Just told me that I had to turn my car around. At this point, I noticed that at least a few other carloads of obvious \wedding- goers\ were in the same predicament as I. The only available parking spots we could find Were in the Lamont House lot - a parking lot seemingly ''untouched\ by the Physical Plant plows (which was obviously why there were plenty of empty spots!) Seeing no other available choice. and noting that the 3:00p.m. start of the wedding was fast ap- proaching, I opted to park in a Lamont House snowdrift. The walk from my car to the Chapel was probably one of the scariest things I've ever done. Neither the campus road, nor the sidewalks were salted, sanded, or even sprinkled with dirt. They were, however, com- pletely covered with snow and sheets of ice. I'm sure that most of the Union College community reading this letter will recognize this treacherous experience all too well. Needless to say, the conditions on campus that afternoon were disgraceful. I suppose that after being at Union for the past four winter's, I should have known better than to expect the campus conditions to be any better than they were on Saturday afternoon. I probably should have realized beforehand, that if I wanted to get to the wedding on time, I would have had to allow myself an extra hour of \parking and walking time.\ So I guess there is no excuse for ~Y bein~_late to tile wedding - 1 should have known better. My concern is for tile people who did not know better. How could any of those wedding guests possibly have known how horrible the con- ditions would be on campus? How could they .possibly have anticipated all the time it would take to find i}dequate parking, not to mention, to· actually be able to get to the Chapel without first killing themselves on the ice? I think it is wonderful that the College makes Memorial · Chapel available for such happy . occasions as weddings. I wonder, however, how happy the wedding wou}.d have been if one of the guests had fallen and injured themselves on the way to the Chapel? Jill Tomack '88 . To the Editor: Is there time and space to thank a few people who eon· tribute<!_ to vwhat small battles we might wage against dtJJ.l . minds and SIQuls by giving us some Special experiences last week? From the Arts Depart· ment and Pr-ofessor Tom :ttoss came a delightful jazz concert ·complete Witll audience rh)t.bm clapping and a lindy denon- stration by Professor F'r11nk Calabria and his wife. The music traced similarities 11rtd echoes between Ametica!l jazz and the .longer musical traditions of AfriCa and India. It was a crowd pleaser With a .pleasing crowd,. Ar:ound campus last week there werte several . per- formances of ''Shades ofGr.ay'' by members of Mountebanks, with assistance from several professors. These brief Vignettes tackled issues that are difficult to assess on the printed page, but come to life when given human voice and emotion. On a campus where date rape is an .issue, the17e ar-e large student audiences anxious to ha\'e the opportunity to talk and be listened to . It's hard to talk about things that aUect individuals on such a personal level, but .without com- munication it is almost im- possible . to change the situations. Tban~s to everyone who participated. Sincerely, Bi'inQuell. Director of Press Relations Potholes: Fill 'em up Before Parents'' Weekend 'I'o the Editor: All one has to do is to merely walk around campus to notice a wide variety of pot holes; big ones, little ones, deep ones, shallow ones, etc; Dueto the seasonal climate in Schenectady the roads around campus are prone to erosion. This is particularly bad in the parking lot area behind the fiddhouse and in front of Alumni Gym. Usually you could have maneuvered a car arqund a pot hole or two, but now the problemisso out ofhandth11t no matter how adroit your driving skills are, there's no avoiding · them. Year after year st11dents at Union ::;ee the same old situation. The solUtion i.~ .sim- pl~. Repave the r<Jads in thE lot. It's nottoo· difficult to do and in fact it should have been done Contra Aid Failed From GOP Weakness in House · . last .summel' prior to the start of the school ~ear. Okay, it wasn't done back then and it call't be done in the winter. What about filling tile boles? It sEems whenever maintenance .fi:naUy gets aroundto it there are just too many to fill up that day and after that t:hey never get taken care of again .. The students at this school deserve better for what they pay. It's a pity that the ad- ministration feels that it is better to waitforthe last minute for big events such as Homecoming, Pa-rents' Weekend and Graduation to finally fill in the pot holes. By that time much irreparable damage has been done to many of the cars' suspensions using the parking lot areas. For '18,()(){) a year it stands to reason that the roads around campus should be paved in gold. We'll settle for some fresh asphalt. To the Editor: 1 would just like to tnake one clarification of fact regarding Mr. Ezra Sherman's \An Impression of <Alntra Aid.\ (ConcordieD.Sis, February 18). The first two lines .of the article read as follows: \Two years ago, the HollSe would not have thought of blocking a major Reagan proposal. Somewhere along the say, the authority has gone out of Reagan's requests.\ I would like to provide an answer to this by quoting a portion of. George Will's new book, The New Sea8on: \Democrats merrily tell a joke about God promising three world leaders that he will grant each one of them one wish. Britain's Prime Minister wishes for peace in Northern Ireland. God says, 'OK, but it will take until 1996.' So Britain's Prime Minister weeps. Israel's Prime Minister wishes for peace in the Erratum: In the Feb. 11 issue, the story entitled ''Jackson's Garden Construction to be Completed in May\ incorrectly reported tllat all construction would be completed by May. . Only the first part, currently under plastic, will be complete by then. The Schaffer Foundation grant was $78,000, not $7,800; the total cost of renovations will run about $100,000. FIRST RESPONDER COURSE being offered spring term Registration At: WELLS HOUSE Non-Cred.it Course Office Deadline March 14th Monday Nights: 7:00 - 10:00 pm Questions Call Darrin D' Agostino 346-4896 Social Alternatives Committee presents Muscular Dystrophy Superdance March 8, 1988 9 p.m·. -.1 a.m. Old Chapei.Dinin_g Hall !vliddle East. God says, 'Fine, but it cannot be done before ~006.' So israel's Prime Minister weeps. Ronald Reagan wishes for a Republican House. So God weeps.\ If some levity still does not prove the point, Mr. Will's book has statistics. The GOP has lost 25 of 27 House elections since 1932. They have lost 60 p~rcent of the seats overall. Republican power in the House has never risen above 201 seats, which is what it was in 1956. Cordially, Daniel J. Keniry BobGrady '90 CIA Fact Sheet Authors Speak Out • To the Editor: We, the authors <lf the anonymous; C.I.A. fact :sheet 1 are members of a group callea S.P.A.A. (Students for Political Awareness and Activ-ism) currently forming a constitution for ratification in order to form a club at Union. We were anonymous in our autb()rship because we felt that we neither had the right to· solely print our names nor the name of our group. We will write an official rebuttal, nex:t week, to the argwnents raised about our viewpoint. We would like to keep any debate intelligible and in aecordance with the spirit of democraey that our country represents. Sincerely, Gene Bolger Christopher Avery 1987-88 SPRING TERM PRELIMINARY COURSE LISTING Description of Courses NOT In the 1 9~7-88 Academic Register LLR-160- SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND MORA.L CHOICE: THE DILEMMAS OF. THE MODE:RN WORLD. The course is a new seminar for seniors; the inaugural theme is \The Tragedy of the Commons: Technology, Social Arrangements, and Prospects for Ecological Disaster Cons:idered.\ The course will examine the views of both technological optimists and technological pessimists (incltlding both scientists and those in othet fields) concerning the prospects for human society, and such current controversies as rain forest destruction, acid ·rain, and popu!ation control. Do sol~tions _exist? A_re they tech~otogi~al? Social/political~ Economic? Will ~an end by destroying the earth? Class t1me Will be spht between disctJss10n of common read1ngs and presentation of individual projects, which will require substantial independent work. The intent is that the student will emerge with an understanding of both the scientific and technological realities of a the modern world and the moral implications of decisions to use, or not to use, specific components of scientific knowledge and particular technologies. CDC NEWS BPI's Center for Urban and Eovtroomeotal Studie.s. 1 sa un1que program that v1ews the environment in terms of human aspirations as we1l as physical and social structures. Therefore. the program draws upon courses in Architecture, Engineering, Hum<Jnities and Social Sciences; Management and Science. Graduate~ are ta\Jght to be generalists who can approach and evaluate an environmental problem from many different perspectives. Sound like sometntng you m·ignt be tnterested in? RPI will be providing an i nf ormation sess 1on on Thur'Sday, March Jrd at 8 prr1 in the CDC SemInar Room. Please s1gn up 1n advatlce H yo\l are planning to attend. CAREER ASSISt ANTS NE.EDE.I): Applications are now being accepted fo.r Career Ass>istant posH ions w tth the CDC for the 1988-89 acade-m1C year. For lnforrnat1on and applications, contact Peter Troll<J at the C[)C, X6176. ~Pltc.apon D.e.adHne: Wedne-sday Aprfl 6.

/ CONCORDIENSJSY Fe;r(La1'tt .zs, 19~8 . Page lS . . ' ' . , ,. --~~- -~ ~---.-- - - ' . . S·CIENCE & TECHNO~OGY Dr. Ernest- ·n·rUcker and ·the AIDS Epidemic 'lly PRABIR.CHAKRA:BARTY Last week as. part of the lliology department AIDS .c-olloqUim a talk was given by Dr. Ernest Drucker, doctor of epidimiology ~t Albert Einstein School of Medical Center in the Bronx, New York. Doctor Drucker is a graduate of Union · C()ll!:!ge, and was the key note speaker at the AIDSconference. Dr. Drucker has a unique perspective on the AIDS crisis~ because he :is doctor of ~pidimiology. Epidimiology is tl1e study of the spread . of disease in populations. Dr. Drucker outlined the three variables of epidimiology in the outset of his lecture. These three variables include time, persons and places. He elucidated these variables quite concretely, through a number of graphs and charts of epidimiology data. As an example on an epidemic, he showed a chart of the death rate in New York City. The chart bad decreased steadily fr()m the /1700's to today. However, with the onset of AIDS, th~ graph will change. To Doctor Drucker, AIDS is not an equ~l killer, it truly depends 011 the characteristics of the gr.llllps in society. He went onto [Joint out that NYC has the h.ighEst .rate of AIDS outside ofso:me African nations. A ma~or fact in the spread of AlDS, to [)r; Drucker ls that, \AIDS is several different epidemics llappening at once.\ In N~wY()rkCity the epidenncs including .gay AIDS, and, in- travenow; (j:rug using AIDS. In New Yor~ of the 200,000 in- travenous dtug users, over 50% are infected with AID~. With statisticsoke these Dr. Drucker looks down the effort of some to calm people about AIDS. · Some ·Of the. information Dr. Drucker gave about the in- cidences 0ofAIDS in the I. V. drug using po:pulation was truly terrifying_ Tile dirty syringe is the mai11 culprit in the spreading o~ AIDS. Especially when certain addicts inject themselv~s 4000 times in a span of 2 years. Another major cause in the rapid spread of the disease Ls the simultaneous arrival of C()caine and AIDS in the city. As far as tbe future of AIDS is concerned; Dr, Drucker be- lieves, '''Mle path of 4JDS will be determiiledby women.'' This is especially importarit a:s; drug usage increases for woii1Len lie was quick to point out the misconception that A:lDS spreads · faster throm~h the homosexual community_ AIDS spreads just as raJJidly tllrough drug users as gay me-n~ S()me 'other misconceptions ;Lnclude contracting AIDS thr()u~hl.easual contact, and mosquito 1Ji1es. As he put it AIDS is a· v~ry weak virus incapable of living~nu1side of the body for even a1n h<>ur. Therefore it is very deiJ)elldent on external conditions lllli.d the amount ofvirus. Dr. Drucker went on to speak about different societie;s!rlealing With the disease. In a: C()untry like Sweden with an e:st:remely comprehensive sexual education progra10, in- formation has sprE!Id more rapidly. In Japan condcoooshave been the contrac.:lptive of choice, with 90% ofpe()lple using them. These societies eannot compare to the U.S. where major campaigns . against cigarettes has taken 2Dyears to show effects. Or. Dr11c=koeE.\ feels that people shoould bow that actual AIDS cases are Dnly the tip of the iceberge as :regards to the disease. For ille .rnain Dr. [)rucker., keynote speaker at AIDS Conference. portion of the .rlsk lies in those In New York City 5% of tbe infected only with the HIV hospitals are filled with AIDS virus. As the death rate in- patients. Dr. Drucker sees a creases more compariso~s can disaster waiting to happen be made with plagues like the when middle class hospital care l>laek death ill Europe. In the is infringed by poor, dis en- city of New Y:ork the ·rate of franchised AIDS patients. He AIDS is ten times higher than feels that we have had a history the rest of the U.S. The in~ of bigoted behavior towards cidence are great that the rate AIDS patients. Best shown, by of AIDS decreases with a lack of mention of the word distan~efromtb.ecity. _ \AIDS\ by President Reagan Dr. Drucker ended his speech until the 6th year of the with talk of tbe impending epideniic. hospital problem. Previously Dr. Drucker gave an ex- hospitals hall competed for tremely engaging lecture. His patients, now ill certain sections unique style of looking at the of New York there is a 3-day \'big picture\ of AIDS, provided wait for emergency room care. a fine learning experience. TWO PHYSICS PROFESSORS UP FOR ,. · ··,REAPPOINTMENT~, ·An Inflationary Idea The Physics Department is conducting a reappointment review f()l' Professors Lazlo Baksay and Richard Magahiz. Persons wishing to contribute oral or written testimony regarding Professor . --- Magahiz or Professor Baksay' s reappointment are encouraged to contact Professor David Peak, Chair, Physics Department. PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM §Refresltm.ents:. 4:30 ti Thne: 4:45 Place: Steinmetz 106 Date: Thursday, Feb. 25 ''The Physic.s in Star Wars and in Industry'' ' . Dr. Richard J. Garlvin IBM ByMARCUSDlt.&W What's new m· the miverse .tb~se (ia.y;7 W~ll, OQt [IlllB)fc;. The.~.· ~ onlY things new ..al!e IJetllaJ)s our ideas about the univera-e. rhese ideas are generally \Vdtlh regard to the early univE)rse, allo:ut 15 to 20 billion years ~(). More specifically, interest is . . focused on the moment of cre.:at10n, the big bang, and tbe sec()>nds that followed. \Big B81lg\ is the name that has l>een giv.ent~ the beginning of the llllinrse. In addition, \Big Bang\' is also a detailed theory that lesC!ribes the dynaniics of the 11/~ry early 'universe. Recently tlheUJ5h a more revolutional\y · and in- flationary idea bas CID!Ile to the forefTont of cosmolog:i~al study. Inflationary, or Bubble Tbeory as it is often caned, .aL()ng with theories from partiele :physics explain the univers~ 'in a way that is less problem~tie than the Big Bang. model. The main problems irn. the Big Bang theory conce[\'J tbe la'ck of explanation of presEnt con- ditions in the universe. OnE such problem is the ·llniform .background radiaticm · a11d the formation of galax:ies~ 'lbe Big Bang does not explain ~bow the background radiatiiVII became so uniform. Secondly, ill order to account f<lr i!Be uniform background ofthe sky, the early Initially, when the universe universe must have been began to expand, the bubble flawlessly smooth and con- formed slowly. This slow fora tin~!-1l:J~. J~ Jl:l5~.t js .jJ.\Il.~ .. ,then c • mation, acwunts. .for the matt~r . ~sh(}l.Lld. '/not have . ,. .. ex;istence : ap.d ~ ~lllliforqrity of aggregated to form stars and background radiation. galaxies. . The inflationary bubble also On~. of thE most .. striking addresses the problem of conditions of the B1g Bang flatness. Simply, it can explain theory is tpat of our universe this with an analogy of an ex- being nearly flat. The problem panding sphere. As a sphere or he~e lies :in the fact. that a flat bubble expands, the surface of uruverse Is the most unprobable any given small region appears universe that could exist. This is flat to us. One facet of the like flip~ing a coin a~d having it theo.ry that the inflationary land o~ lts e_dge; netther hea~s scenario does not explain is the nor tails, ne1tl1er open nor vmd formation and distribution of in tbe case of the universe. It the galaxies. could not have been by c~ance Although the theory is by no that tbe flatness of the wuverse means complete, it perhaps will w~~ always so . close to . the bring ~.closer to understanding crttical value w~LCh det~rmmes the origm of the universe. As it whether the mnverse ts open, stands, there seems to be closed, or flat. ~is wo~d be general agreement as to what analogous to the com landing on happened after the first hun- its edge an.d remaining so dredth of a second after the forever withollt ever falling one moment of creation. It is the way or the other. This indicates time before this that is the that there is a reason _:why it is subject of great interest in ne~ess~ry for the wuverse to cosmology and particle eXIst m a sta~E of extreme physics! Your present flatness. The Big Bang theory knowledge of bow the universe does n~t supply such a reason. began, and· much more per- The mflati()nary, or bubble, taining to this fascinating th~ory proposes that the subject, can be enhanced by umverse began as a bubble. reading \In Search of the Big This avoids ~ost troubles ~hat Bang\ or \Stephen Hawking !s plague the R1g Bang theonsts. Universe.\

I' • Page 16 CONCORDJENSJS, February 25, 198.8 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY . . . . . . . . . . . . · · Exciting New Bio-Eco Course · Offered.This Spring·· \ ... and the record low for this date is 147° below zero, which occurred 28,000 years ago.during the Great Ice Age.\ From What's So Funny About Science by Sidney Harris. By JENNIFER KOVE Science Editor Are you a non-science major looking for an interesting science to fulfill your liberal learning? Bio-econiilic aspects of new health technologies is probably for ym1. This is. an exciting new course taught dually by Professors Styles 'Of the Biology Department. and Lambrinos of the Graduate Management Institute (GMI). The course will deal with our roles as agents of change in the health care system as we prepare to enter a new century. There have been advances in the medical technology over the past few decades _that have given rise to many moral and ethical dilemmas. In addition, health care has not been im- mune to inflation. This course will be discussing new ap- Homeostasis and Negative Eugenics By MARK HAUGHTON Homeostasis is a biological term referring to the universal characteristic of living organisms to control their population by adjusting to the surroundings. Eugenics refers to changes in the gene pool of a living organism; these can be positive or negative. I suggest, as many others have before me, that we as humans can not escape the laws of nature: and are therefore affected by homeostasis and left with negative eugenics. Plato created his republic based ort the promntion; of · positive eugenics. This is simply promoting the breeding among those individuals with \superior\ genes while discouraging, through whatever technique, reproduction of lesser, gene- poor individuals. From a humanistic stand it is difficult to suggest that equal opportunity to reproduce be controlled. Yet, at the same time the current situation in this world favors the reproduction of those lesser quality, gene-poor individuals. The charts prove the statement. Population growth is ex- ponential in Mexico. Most of those individuals having large families are among those poor, and uneducated regions of society. This is not to say that all are gene-pQor, but to a large extent these rapidly growing sections of world society are representative of negative eugenics. Conceptually and theoretically, although quickly becoming reality, these por- tions of the world populous are overcrowding the world. Hitler elinlirrated the Jews based on ; their perceived inferiority. It is a similar sickness of the mind that causes hundreds of whales to beach themselves on the shores of the oceans that allows such mindless killings to take plac:e in our \civilized\ society. We are resisting Darwin's theory of \Survival of the Fittest.'' The educated chose not t() have children while the uned11cated reproduce like rabbits. In over-populated '~ ~00 ' l )00 ':>300 11 JOO 1 C UOO 'OQ() 3000 1000 85. 80-84 15-79 70-74 65-&D eo-f-4 5S-S~ c. 50-5· 5 otS-.t~ \' 40-4\ ., lS-38 c-. \' l0-34 25-28 20-20 IS-1V 10-1. s-a 11-4 Sweden tJmted States. human regions infectious disease, war, starvation, and suffering are commonplace. I suggest that this is due to homeostasis: allevating the ove1-strained area by reducing the numbers. AIDS: perhaps the warning has been ingoored too many times; perhaps health technology will postpone this natural means of population control. Our means of in- terfering with the natural process of nature are finely tuned, ie.,. splitting atoms, seeing through things with x- rays, polluting our en- vironment ... In 1347 a dip in population by seventy five million was due to the Bubonic plague or \Black Death.\ At current growth rates it would take thirteen months to replace seventy five million people: a clear example of how exponential growth works. Still, the -rate of ac- celerated population growth continues because we insist on aborting the laws of nature. No simple solutions are suggested, I think I'll just sit back aqd watch. 5 (1975) ~ Figura 36.11 A~e structure d>agrams lor t'hree countr1es on 1977 ·oark green mdtcates tl1e pre·reprodl.!clive base. Dart< l'llue ondtcates reprOdUCtive years h!;jh1 otu~. tne post·reproductive years. The portiOn of the populill~on to the lell:ot rr.e vertocal axos 1n each dtagra'\ represents maltls. thli portoon to the right represents females. Me~1co has a·very ractd rate ot .ncrea~ ln 198(), Swede!> ·showed zer'M'opulat,on growth. (After Muter, Ltvmg tn the Enwon.ment. Wadswonh, 1982) proaches to explDring .alter· native futures to both of these aspects of the 1llealth care s~stem. Subjects to be con- sidered include new technologies, reimbursement, ethical issues, thE · changirg · health organization/market and the health professions. This economic-scientific course will require a card and bas limited openings. Preference will be .given to Ujpperclassmen due to the mature topics that Will be touched upon. Tl;le economic andhiologicalimpact of AIDSJs a new issue that will be in- coOrporatedinto the syllabus this year. This will include a field t!'ip to an AIDS treatment center at Albany Medical Center. Other controversal subjects will be. studied. Fo.r example the , human ' reproductive ,technol()gical f~cet of the course will cover t.opicssuch as male and female reproductive structures, diagnosis of human .infertility, in v-itro fertilization and embryo tranfer, .. donor sperm, egg, and embryo, su:rrogat~ .parenting, frozen embros, gene manipulation and more. Un- derstanding · of these technologies will be aided by :films, discussion, speakers, a lab demonstration and field .trips. The unique lab demon· stration will be an vitro fe.r· tilization offrogs' eggs! If this doesn't peak your ' curiosity pehaps the field trips will. The first of the four ex- .cursions will takE you to the Bellvue Hospital for a look at investor-owned hospitals and the delivery of health care .. · Next you will Visit the New York State Department of Health to view tbe Hybridoma . and flow of cytometric in~ trumentation laboratories, at'fd then the Sterling Winthrop Drug Institute. The fourth trip will be the AIDS center mentioned ea1lier. · The economic aspect of the course asks no prior economic- background and will discuss the monetary cost of AIDS to yolll- society. How much is spent ort research and prevention ami who pays for it? These questions and more Will be answered. Other issues that will be studied are the effects of infl~tion clll health care, of malpractice, and lack of cost sharing in the system. Professor Lambrinos is an expert on these matters and will .concentrate on the In- flationary effects upon health care and how they relate to technology. ·· Overall the students will be made aware of the awesome powers of medicine, which are continually expended by developments in life and sciences that hav.e sparked growing public interests -in a number of what are now termed bioethical issues. Professor Styles states, ''To the traditional matters of personal conscience of health professions are added to the serious and triCky questions that often face courts, legislators, sponsors and regulators of research. Biomedical ·behavioral scientists and practitioners are now exploring ways to conquer illness, to sustain oragn func- tions artificially, t~ prove and even manipulate the genetic base ofTife itself. · We expect the student to leave the course with the ability to reason clearly, make sound judgements, and p~esent ideas effectively both. orally and written on health and policy instructions that include strong roles for community and government. They should aquire a better insight into the economic impact of AIDS. They should also be able to evaluate the quality and cost of ef· feetiveness of the delivery of. health care, develop a thorough understanding of how new tecbnologies· may change the entire pattern and organization of health care servies and how each can play a co11strutive and effective role in the health care system. So, Professor Style's and Labrinos' course will include a diversity of topics ranging from . health care inflation to genetic engineering. It reqpires no background in the sciences or economic field aild is geared toward students with an apt interest in the developing times who may not have a strong scientific background. There is a lab demonstration, though it is not a \lab\ course. This course will be an interesting informative mixture of economics and biology. If you are looking for a· stimulating and thought provoking, liberal learning course tllis spring do not be intirirl.dated by the Science and Engineering Building! ' fa·mous· ' . . . Scientist V •• , u . lSI's . n1on Scholar and Scientist Richard~Garwin follows Wenesday lecture Old Chapel with a talk about the future of nuclear weapons. See Colloquium ad ·for details

:..CONCORDIENSIS,. February 25, 1988 Pag~ 17 ·---.. -CDC INTERNSHIPS . . g SALT Magazine, an articulate quart.erly dedicated to I he archives o!Naine Folklife, is offering a prcigram with re.gards to res~arch and' photographic documentation. For more informa1ion; ocnlact the CDC. ·Empire Compwter S~rvice,lnc., a subsidiary of Blue Shield is offering anintermih~ in the Microcomputer Programming and Analysis departme,nts. loter:ested students should contact the CDC. . The Assembly State ,of New York is announcing its 1988 Summer Intern Progran1, which seeks students for summer ptlblic policy researchpositions at the Capitat More informatien ancJ an application is available upon ,request at the CDC. . The NY State Department of 'Social $ervic~s is offering a limited numller of summer inters hips available in Albany for minority students with an opportunity ,fo perform paraprofessional duties in support of a variety of social services programs. For more information; contactthe CDC. WEDNESDAY -NIGHT IS WINGS NIGHT! · . General Electrie is o11eri11g summer positions in their manufacturing p'lafll for.juniors majoring inME or EE. For more information, contact t~~ CDC. · DUTCiH HOLLOW . ' . RESTAURANT e·e .A Part Of The Ol·ymp·iic Spirit 10¢ HOTWINGS- FREE SMALL SODA WITH EVERY PURCHASE OF200RMORE THE GREAT UNION COLLEGE FOZZEBALL TOURNAM:ENT .IS BACK! CHOOSE YOUR. TEAM OF 2 PEOPLE & SIGN UP WITH CASHIER AT SKELLAHOHCOLLEGE CENTER. NUMBER OF TEAMS WILL DETERMINE PLAY OFF DATE. DUTCH.MAN'S DINNER ~------~----------·-------~-~------~------------- 1 . . - :TEAM ORGANIZATION NAME--- \ NAME1 ·--------------- ' EVERY FRIDAY EVENING Reservation accepted till 5:00 pm on Thursday. Meal cards must be punched beforehand to insure your reservation. 2.------------------- PHONE NUMBER:----- CONTACT PERSON: ________ _ $2.00-DONATION PER PERSON WE HAVE TWO SEATINGS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE- 5:30 AND 7:00 PM I CHARITYCHOICE: __________ - _________ _;__ STUDENT IDNUMBERS: __ ,_ _ __...,__ CLASS YEAR:------- ' ' ' · so srop::B'Y :rHE odToH· HOLLow EARLY IN THE WEEK Upcoming Menu wiH Feature Many of Your Favorites • SAILTO OR FROM EUROPE, FLYTHE OTHER WAY-jUST $999. Transatlantic travel on Tomorrow's Super- liner Today® is a. -:xperience of incompar- able richness. And now opr standby fare makes sailing to Europe in five glorious days and nights truly irresistible. This standby fare of$999 provides a berth in a minimum-grade· room for two, and a one-way, economy-class tic~et between London and New York, Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Miami,.Philadelphia or Washington, DC.; taxes extra. Or book QE2 alone-just $799 on standby; taxes extra. - This limited offer is subject to with- drawal without notice and may not be combined with any other offer. Confirma.:. tion will be given three weeks prior to .sail· ing; a $100 deposit is required with your ' request. For details, see your travel agent. or submit the application at right. . Btlllkm~s. l\•1 net.•llt'd wtthtn 21 days.ot saihng will hlrfL•It tlu• $lOll c..ii.~pu ... 11 Ll.'nv;th•nf·st\Y rt.•strictions: cipply. QE2 WHistl•rt.>d tn Gn•tlt Britain \ CHOOSE FROM 26 SAILINGS TO EUROPE: Apr. 29; May 22; June 12, 25; July 10, 27; Aug. 11, 21; Sept. 6, 21; Oct. 1,31; Nov. 21. FROM EUROPE: May 11; June 5, 20; July I, 22; Aug. L 16, 29; Sept. 11, 26; Oct. 15; Nov. 6; Dec. 14. v r - A.rPucATioN FoR QE2 sTANns'Y -l I Cunard; Box 2935; Grand Central Station; I NewYorl<, NY10163. I -Mail this application and a deposit of $100. I I I \ lst-choict' s.atlin~ d.atc..~ 2nd-choice, 'icllltn~ d,ltl' \ I I I NAMf I I ,\(l(lf{f'<; Al'l Ml I I I I til< ~ lA! I' /II' I I .. ·. ·. · . · I J),n;tlnw ph~1iW ht•nmg phlml' J L __ _._ _______ ,.llc..Q_288_. QUEEN ELIZABETfi 2 1bmorrows Superliner Today' QuEEN ELIZABETH 2 • SAGAFJORD • ViSTA FJORD • SEA GoDDESS I • SEA GoooEss II SOCIAL ALTERNATNES COMMITTEE PRESENTS: MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY SUPER DANCE MARCH 4, 1988 9:00 PM - 1:00 AM OLD CHAPEL DINING HALL Get involved for a good cause. For Information please call Student activities x611 or Steffani Larios x4265 Enter as a team or individual Prizes awarded for many categories . . . win a CD,TV or VCR ' -

.\. Page 18 CONCOR.DlENSIS, February 25, 1988· Another WRUC (89.7) Record Review· By JOHNS. MORGAN The melodic feel of Tiny Lights' debut album, Hazel's Wreath, coupled with ·Donna Croughn's \Natalie Merchant& like\ vocals brings 10,000 Maniacs pleasantly to mind, Where the Maniacs use clever production - hiding a matching acoustic guitar just underneath the electric line - Tiny Lights introduces a violin, sitar and cello to achieve an effectively mysterious blend of rock and folk with classical ()Vertones. \The Bridge\ seems to be a popular song title with the bands of today; Tiny Lights' interpretation is eerie and energetic. \Wickennan's Dog'' is a fun Irish folk instrumental that fits in quite well. The most The 'Tiny .. Li:ghts \Hazel's Wreath\ consistently rocking of the nine original tunes is \Colors and the Light'' which also introduces a prominent trumpet solo by bassist Dave Dreiwitz. Unfortunately, side on of Hazel's Wreath is noticeably stronger than the album's flip side. I also feel that the band is still suffering the effects of being without a drummer back in 1985; the drum parts don't always fit in. Tiny Lights will definitely get a spin on college radio turn- tables. In addition to vocalizing, Croughn provides distinctive CQVer art, but her band's suc- cess may well be stunted by the impression that they are not distinctive&- but, rather, maniacal imitators. WRUC THE NEW 8.97 By JIM MacLAUGHLIN Arts Editor SHOOT TO KILL Starring Sideny Poiteir, Tom Berenger, and Kirstie Alley At Mohawk and Crossgates Malls. Rated: R It would be silllple for a reviewer to label Shoot To Kill as a Lethal Weapon rip-off and write it off as such. But to do so would be to ignore that fact that one had seen the film, and enjoyed it inunensely. True, Shoot to Kill will invariably invite comparison to the Mel GibsonMDanny Glover block- buster, and well it should. But one should always remember that such a format is not en- . tirely new, dating back to The Defiant Omes, The Heat of the Night, and I-8py. Touchtone Studios, the Disney off-shoot, has ventured into the adventure film genre with a whiteMknackle cliffh~nger. ··:iu ARTS & FILMS Jim and Buddy at ·the Movies Resurrecting Sidney Poitier (much .in the way they have Richard Dreyfus), and pairing hiln with the intense, rugged Tom Berenger proves . to l)e a wellMthought pairing. The two actors' compelling appearance and stature- on the screen combine well to give the movie a sense beyond the action, raising it a notch above its genre. The basic ,premise of the movie is an iritelligent FBI man's (Poitiet) search for a dangerous killer whO has out· witted him and is now heading for Canada via the mountains as a disguisE;Jd member of a fishing party. Poitier must,. of course, give chase in the mountains and requiring a guide, hires a mountain man ( Berenger) whose girlfriend is leading the fishing trip. What distinguishes Shoot To Kill apart from other similar movies is that it combines many cliched scenarios; city man meets country man, ad- venturous manhunt, fatal carnping trip, etc... in such a way that those elements don't <!onswne the entire movie. The ()ha,racters provide some major moments of burnor and drl:Ulla, with the nailbiting action existing in close range. It is interesting to watch the friendship develop between the men in grudging fashion, especially when Berenger has to practically disrobe· in the middle of a blizzard to save Poitier from freezing to death. Poitier is his usual excellent self in this movie, it is refreshing to know that Touchtone hires actors and actresses for filrns, rather than recruiting people who are simply popular at the moment. As the mountaineer, Berenger could have been given a few more substantial lines, as he spends most of the movie ap- pearing stubborn and dogged. Kirstie Alley also does a credible job. To further add to the film's credit is the sometimes stunningly pic- tUresque scenery of Washington and British Columbia. Film Grade: B+ Let's not kid ourselves. This countdown is the only countdown in New York accurate to two decimal places. The best new records- reside here and they \Drive the Babes Wild!\ A SCIENCE FICTION CLASSIC ... FANTASTIC THIS WEEKS TW LW Band 1 Soundtrack 2 8 The Nils 3 7 Sinead O'Co)lflor 4 . Jazz Butcher 5 Beatnik Beatch 6 Pajama Slave Dancers 7 TheCont:ms 8 Camper Van Beethoven 8.97 2 Robyn Hitchcock Album Dogs in Space The Nils The Lion & The Cobra Fishc<>lheque At The Zula Pool Blood, Sweat & Beers Ciphers in the Snow Vampire Can Mating Oven Globe of Fr<>gs Label Atlantic Rock Hotel Chrysalis . Relativity Industrial Restless Whittier Pitch-A-Tent A&M ON-CAMPUS MOVIES tnnerspace Feb. 26, 27, 22 '7, 9, · 11 ... Dennis Quaid is trapped in Martin ShO'rt's bqdy, and Short has 24 hours to get him out before he dies. He also must stay one step ahead of the bad gu~s. 'THE CREA.lURE' FRO\' THE BLACK LAGOON in 3-D Mar. 2 7, 9, 11 •.. Get a .free pair of cool glasses and watch in horror as an ugly. reptile slithers around t-he College C~nter Auditorium TOP ADDS ' - . - RICHARD CARLSON • JULIA ADAMS The Woodentofs, Tiny Lights, The Barbarian Lovers ADVENTURE PICKS Mission of Burma, No Means No 7\ The TRUTH about FICTION (Prizes, That is) Get it in Humanities210 FINAL NOTIC.E 3rd OIMfNSlO~' ! . ~ ',!!\'\ , - ·• • \•· ' lo LET US PRIZE YOUR ESSAY (CHECK IT OUT IN HUMANITIES 21 0). This is the last no1ice requesting Union College faculty to submit copies of their publications and their activity sheets for the period September 1, 1985-august 31,1987 to the Faculty Bibliography ! NeU Simon's Group At Schafferlibrary. The next edition of the · Bibliography will be published in the Spring of 1988. Please send copies . of publications to lngrida · Dambergs at Schaffer Libary. Thank You. CHAPTER TWO March 9,1988 NOTT MEMORIAL SPM 'fickets on Sale at Information Booth, College Center $3.00 • • • I- ·t·~ .. · Crossgates Mall Cinema 1 Broadcast News Vica Versa · 2 The Last Emperor 3 Tllree Men afld a: Baby Fri. & Sat. ONLY 12:40,3:50,6:50, 9:50* 12:35 9:15 (Fri.) 12:00,3:20, 6:45, 10:00 1:50, 4:15,7:40, 10:20 12:2.5. 4 A 1\Jight in the , .· . Life of Jimmy Rearden '1 :15, 4:50, 7:35, 1 0:15 12:20 : t}· HaW' Spray-· 6 Mo~tistruck · \ 7 Shoot to Kill 8 Ironweed Switching Channels 9 Good Morning Vietnam · 10 Frantic 11 Action Jackson · 12 Serpent & the Rainbow 1:05, 4:00, 7:55, 10:25 12:30 : 1.:55, 4:35, 7:25, 10:30. 12:40 1:20, 4:25,· 7:00, 9:35 12:10 12:20, 3:15, 6:30, 9:55** 12:45 9:15 (Sat. only) . ' 12:30, 3:25, 6:40, 9:40 12:15 12:55, 3:40, 6:35,9:40 12:05 12:45,3:40, 6:15,9:05 11:55 1:30, 4:05, 6:20, 9:15 ' 12:00 .

CONCORDIENSlS, February 25, 1988 Page 19 ARTS & FILMS ~- . ' . ' - ' . The Union College Arts Depart~ent presents Painter and. Printer ·C.harles Hewitt . ' . . - By JAN GOLDSTEIN · Arts Editor The Union College Arts Department is fortunate to present painter and print- maker, Charles Hewitt. On Wednesday, March 2., at 8 p.m., Mr. Hewitt will conduct a slide presentation about his work. The presentation Will take place in the Arts BUilding and focus on the influences and development of Mr. Hewitt's paintings and pl,'ints. In the mid-sixties, Mr. Hewitt spent several months in the Capital District, which had an extreme impact on his career. Hewitt'e first recognition oc- cured while attending. a sum· r_ner painting program at Skidlnor.-e College, (which must be noted was organized by- a dean from Union) when his work attracted the attention of Philip Guston, a \highly esteemed and influential\ painter~ As a result of Guston's recommendation Hewitt was invited to complete his studies at the -renowned New York Studio School in Manhattan. Mr. Hewitt's \\ork was first exhibited in 1972 and has 'Qeen displayed in gr~ups and solo shows ever since. His paintings and prints have been known to expose the possibilities of each medium, and bri11g to life all the colorshe employs. The imagery he uses .ranges from representational to abstract. His works have been reviewed by numerous publications including Arts Magadne, The New York Times, Art Forum, Ai.1 News and The Print Collectors Newsletter. Mr. Hewitt is also honored by having his work in the collection.s of ,- the Metropolitan Mt~seum of Art, NYC; The Library of Congress, Washington, DC; The Chase · Manhattan and Chemical Banks, NYC; The New York Public Library; .and museums in Portland, ME; Columbus, SC; Ithaca, N\?'; Greensboro, NC; and Bowdoin College, ME. -- . - \Jonah\ Linocut by Charles Hewitt Curtains Close on The Winter Improvisation S,eries. By ELIZABETH BERLINER The final performance in the Winter Improvisation Series,. \Hindustani Dance of North India\ will take place on Fdday, February 26. The free program features a demon· stration of Kathak Dance gy Janaki Patrik, who studied under the greatest Kathak dancer, si:nger, and composer in India today, Pandit Birju Maharaj. sarod. Kathak is ro()ted in the Hindu religious tradition, and has developed under the Muslim culture. It is used as a spiritual expression of ll!ldying devotion to ancient Indian .religious mythol(lgy and epics. It's Like This Cabaret Dance, music, Words In Life Supporting Patrik will be four mUsicians, including Indian flutist Steve Gorn, Paul Leake on the tabla, Stanley Scott, vocalist and instrUmentalist, and Brad Catler on sitar and As in all the previous per- formances, it will take place at 7:30p.m. in the informal sett~g of the Perforin.ing Arts Studio. There will be a brief ex- planation in \Order that the audience can better understand this foreign form of art and the deeper meaning behind each THURSDAY, FEB. 25TH 8:00PM COLLEGE CENTER SPONSORED BY: ' , movement and gesture. All are welcome. THE BLACK AND LATIN ALLIANCE OF STUDENTS - NEXT MONDAY IS BISSEXTILE* DAY_ US~ IT WELL KEEP THE *tbis word brought to you by THE WRITING CENTER in Whitaker House CARNEG,IE NAME The Department Of Classics Union College .. Presents: · Ylntigone: rJJifferent Stories by Professor 'J)eborali 2\goerts 9{averford Co{{ege THRUSDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1988 8:00PM HUMANITIE-S BLDG. r RM. 116 .9lntigone 'Et. Creon, flJrawing 'By Jean Cocteau ' Arts Briefs DAVID LEE ROTH TO PERFORM David Lee Roth will be in concert With Faster Pussycat · at the Glens Falls Civic Center on Monday, March 28 at 8:00pm. tickets go on sale February20at 8:00am for $15.50. For more information call the Center Box Office at (518) 792-0202 UNION IMPROVISATION SERIES The winter series will conclude on Feb. 26 with \Hindustani Dance of North India: (Kathak Dance). Performance starts at 7:30 pm in the performing arts studio of the Arts Building. For more infor. call (518) 370-6201. SLIDE LECTURE TO BE PRESEN1EO The Union College Arts Departmentis pleased to announce that Charles Hewitt will give a presentation about his work on We., March 2 atB:OO pm in Arts Building at Union College. EUROPEAN ROCKERS ~undasy, Feb. 28 at 8:00 pm, Buk~ Suflera, a Pol~sh Rock . group, will appear at the Troy Sav1ngs Bank Mus1c Hall. . Tickets'are available at the Box Office (518) 273-0038. General Admissioo is $11.00, for students $9.00 . SINGER AT CAFFE LENA Anne Hills is performing Feb. 2'6-27 a~ Caff~ Lena, ~5 Phila Street, Saratoga Springs. f()r t1cket mformat1on and reservations call 583-0022.

CONCORDIENSIS, FebruDty 25, 1988 CLUB NEWS York City and on Long Island., Marc: I miss you for G. WI Will Many' of these internships aTe , Robin ever speak? Lovre, Andi either salaried or offer stipend. · · Write for further informati()n... R.J.-You are a prep - Don't The Spaliish Club will present on Thurs., Feb. 25, at 8:00 \Alsino iud the Condor,\ It is the first fictional feature ever made in 1:-licaragua. It has been widely aeclaimed for its honest depiction of the Clash between Central American governments and the Sandinista rebels. The film willli~ shown in Social Sci. 112 and r~freshments. will be served. Student Internship Service, P... •' deny it! l 0. Box 1053, Kings Park, New ---.,..------- York 11754. Mindy Hahn- PERSONALS Rellgi11us Programs presents. J ewish·Cbristian Dialogue. Februar!' 24 at 7:30 p.m. ii1 CC410. ']be discussion topics include, \Interfaith Dating,\ \Religio11 and the State,\ and \Rites of Passage.\ Guest panelist 'will be the following clergy members from the Schenectady area: :Rev. George C. Gagmum, Pastor, Sacred Heart & St. Columbia Catho!ic Church; Rev. Andrew Russ, Past<lr, First United Methodist, Schenectady; and Rabbi BernardtBlwn, Temple Gates of Heaven, Schenectady, c, Did you hear the one about tlle two condoms walking by a gay bar? J.ust kidding,· hope you aced your test, I can't afford t() lose any more bets. Jeff, The guy witiJ, flour in his ear Nice picture. the Pizza Pllb makes a great backdrop. The~ss. Dougert-I shall blow a puffb~ll in your general direction-C.c~tlt P.W. Ow! STH-Finally here's yocr personal from me to you. And [ still think you deserve Athlete()f the Week! Love, HLB Sister Fred & Sister Gwen~ Thanks for your hospitality- Alcohol and Drugs-M()nday, Februaiy 29 at 7 p.m. in Room. 410 of tile College Center Rev. Michael Hogan of Bishop Maginn liigh School will speak on Alcol!ol· and Drugs and an- swer ~ny questions. All welcomE. . after T&T. Maybe next time ii'e can break some vows. - Brother Mick 1 Risa-.-Get psyched for D.C. Cou.ctm~.ed for the Hungry- Saturda)', March 5, volunteers are neEded at Bellevue Reformed Church, Schenectady to help sort donations for the food pantries. If you can give an hour or two of your time please meet K~ren Sapio and Sr. Joan at the College Center at noon on the 5th~ · Only a few weeks left to go! 'Yoa are the best! Smile! Love, St ef Shut·IIIS-Any Union College student who wishes to visit a. shut-in of St. John's parish regulaily during these winter monthsis asked to contact Sr. Joan's -sister, Gerri Borne at 372-3381. Tuto:r.ial Program-Unio11 students can be used in the followillg areas at St. John's Schoot.: Kindergarten Aides~ Ubrar:y Aides, and Math and Readirlg: on a one to one. Please contaCit Kristin Nelson (386- 4364). Folk Group-All singers and musiclans interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 ptm. Liturgy may meet with F'riar Phil at 6:30p.m. in the CllUJ\ch to rehearse. Conflrmation-Sr. Joan is conducting classes for Union stude11ts Mondays from 3 to 4::JD p.m. in Room 404B College Center' on February 29 and Marcm 7 and will resume classeJS on March 28 for those who Wiish to be Confirmed on April :ill. CLASSIFIEDS }W()rnmate needed to share off-campus apartment witll 3 male students for spring tenn. C<lst: 1440 for entire trimester plus Clne fourth utilities. Good location, private room, and garage. Please call 377-9110 or write· Box No. 5. 1981 Internships: New York Metr()politan Area. The Student Intel'JI!ihip Service offers you listinj!S of summer internships in your major fields. Placements are available with spollliOring companies in New Cheerleaders- You guys a:re the best! I love you all. Thanl\s for everything -Jen Hilary; Michele+· '. . Happy Happy Birthda'! · You're so hot! You 20 year ()!d woman!! Love, Michelle . S-B-0 (Sexy, brown, orangutaJl) seeks compatible mate. Must 1Je able to coWlt to ten. Must be able to read The Cat in the llat. Must reside. on the (South eJld of) Third Floor South. Smd photo, a clump of hair, and ]JBV'\' prints tQ Box 1379. Was yow· Aunt Jes:sica in- volved in the latest Holy Sin of Jinuny Swaggert? Mr. Politics, Are you Getting these per- sonals, or n()t? Jan Do ·you know where your Buddy is? Skeeter, Hey, whaf sthat? Colilld it be? Yes, lthinkitis. It's thew()rm- he's turning!!! B.BM The Class 01 '89 Is Sponsori-ng A Semi- :formal at tlie 1\gmaaa Inn March 4th 9·1, Re,f reshm ents, DJ,Cash Bar Bring I.D. Juniors Pick-up Free Tickets in tt1e College Atrillm Feb. 29·Mar. 4th 11-4 Cost for your date is · $1. Y!>l! mu~t ll~ve a ficket to go. - · Any problems contact your class officers: Kristin Nelson Mike Van Hcorn Joe Voyticl<y \'I'VE S~fNi SOMV<\tTIME f'lfRE IN'T\\IcS~llT\\J 'TIMT rr's- MY fAvo~rte- ~oi'I\S:l u I ;· \YoV NE\ED ·A ~E\S'IOE'tff W~IISE MES.rMe- lTEf'Le-qs 1ovx INTE R~ST\S ! ~u5' t\i.E BRoUGH\ MINE\ ALoNG . J. I

' ·, CONCORDIENSIS, February 25, 1988 .. PERSONALS If they only knew. Happy Birthday Lisa and Chrissy! ! Get Psyched for tonight - you will have an amazing time - Love, The Herd Tricia, It's ahnost over. No more being sent all over campus .to find beer! Thanks for the pancakes. Love, Mom Orello, Watch out • Thursday nights are DANGEROUS. Happy Birthday to us. Beer slamograms for an. You're the beans. Love & Lagers, IDID (That's backwards for ... ) J .H. Are you· absolutely sure 12 weeks doesn't equal 3 m-:mths? Thanks for the sights of Albany last Tuesday. Fortunately, my concussion .from Coco's didn't impair my yision. A.G. Joubs: A belated happy bir· thday to someone who's left the traumatic teenage years ~ with No. 4? Love, Andi Ken Horan: One question: Do you really think decapitation will improve my volleyball playinrr? Andi · · Pl: We are \wild type\ women. · Let's C011Ilt those flies. No, no- ; the Drosophila silly. Is it singed? If we ignite them, they might curl. What would be our · e1Cpected value, assuming the lab didn't blow up 1st? The . \Etherizer\ · J-.H. Most of all-Thanks for being a friend. Happy V alen- tine's Day! Love, A;G. Beef- . Sister Sue- Why won't you give me the . Congratulations! ! DG doesn't chance to find out what it's all know what they got themselves about ? ! ? · into. Brother John K. Hey \Little Dude\-' Flow 'bout a backrub and a kiss? It's almost 3 ~wkst I love you - Happy Birthday - Me! . Val H. A turtleneck during aerobics?! I hope he was worth it! Luv, T. Rob Lichten- Thanks f9r the shirts, especially after the romp we had in your room. -from the two you know so well See you .Sunday, don't forget the whipped cream & oranges. Is it supposed t(J be easy being cheesy? I think quiche makes for the best roommate. Besides, doesn't cheese get rotten? Just kidding girls- \\. Jill, . You're a great little sister. I can't wait for Friday night! Basketball is finally-over. Love, your big sister BW- Italy? England? Maybe we'll know by the time you read this! I get hungry just thinking about it! -LM Tara Suck back you basketball star. Get psyched for Friday night!! Robin, Love, Your favorite big sis We are getting the men back together this Friday night - for another great time. Love always Your favorite roomie Any fool could leave a mess at West, butit takes a special kin.a of fool to leave something with a name on it. Congrats . to this week's IDIQ',I.'S: Karen Yalyou, Martha Oemany, and F aiz . Kahn. - Lina-shut the hell up already! Hey Union!!! Just checking. Great job at States Dutch swimmers! ! ! New Paltz seeks Union. Three lovely women in white VW Convertible. The five new Paltz men in a station wagon would appreciate contact. Call Cyril at (914) 2574129 after 11 p.m. Than}ts for a great retreat. It was fantastic. Love, Ashley's and Geri' s kids Good job DG! Congrats on becoming sisters! ·Gamma Phi Beta Pledge Class Becky, · Way togo! It's abo!lt time you asked someone! Thanks for being a great roommate! Love ya! Gwen Lisa, - ·.t First Saratoga, then the . Bahamas! Yesh! will we make it to the spring? Love, Your best friend and L.S. Page Zl Dear Steve, wish you were here · with me. Miss you lots. Cuddle pus Dear Chuck, Shalom & Happy Birthday from around the world. Sorry I can't be there with you.. Miss you lQts! Love, Beth Good I11ck Amy &Dayle, LoveMarj R. Reed -Let's go for plan A, B or C? • Pete, Thin!k you can manage to get better by Friday? Did you ever hear the story about the 3 little •• pigs? Jac, Congratulations-! Are yo1.1 sober yet? Get psyched f()r spring ~t Va. ClASSIFIED FO~R SALE-Cube refrigeraoor $50 (That's less than the cost of 1 year's rental) . Call IA!ry 386-4417. BLOOM COUNTY by Berke Breathed <• 1 Rfi1LfZE WHY I'Ve .. !3ff£N lltT!Nu (;0 teC.f/UA!{ unr::L y __ . /HflNK GCOOJ/ffSS FO!{ AU 'll{E PSYCH08fl!38Ui. Set.t= -IIEt.f 11VIIIf.A9/.£ ... 1H€5rf C£KTII!NLY liKE TOrJ&H 17M€S fOrt. f!JOft£ W COPG . W/Tlf.,. 0 ll :; c Q, c ~ if c ;; ~· -~ ~ . [7(}Nfl/ft/f3 W115 , .. , · Tflt./(ft/6 !IBO(JT IT 17{15 fJ10RNfNG .. \ . !!ReNT 7H&Y W()Nf/r::Kt=Uf- R fi V~KITAE3L~ WWeR OF P5YCH0!3/t8!3t.EJ / \ ··• r-------------------, IM SUfF~RfN& FKO/J1 11 ''Mflt.& MfiNOPAUSflf_ fr1Jf?- PA~RNIIL. CflUCI15ffiNI1L. GrilL T fO(j T- P&NfJ(J!NfJt-. · Eflf?LY-t.IF& 5NIT. \. MV 6«1/1#~5~ !T 1 J &((Ef!r 7lJ uve IN AN ,_ 116& WH~R£ 7Hf5 €M07701VI1Lt..Y {7/.7toM80Br/tfiT€H? Cf/N 50 E)(Per<lt.Y 17ftf'Ar . ' m~tt~lfef- ves! I C!VI£. WIIK6/ Pc:JT/t.ENC£/ Pt!IG(JE / Mfl5&tve 51liKV!inON / ~tf1Vt3RY / !NO I !IN A·TrliCK5 / MAN- @177NfJ {j(flf<:J / Eti10T10Nfllt~ M(/5TV5 U6N fl . PICNIC.(/ (rr· .. -~ -~ . - OR !1N M.M. fl1. p· C. &:. P P. e.t.-: Sit IT. I now '!?Or! r J(Jtir ··t5Ntr I WHA1; Of! WHA7, M(/8T Of/!( TIIK£N fll/OT BfiTH. . IINCF35TOR5 Hf/Vf! l7()NE .?! I H£'rf 7lf£Y MOVe!? COS!3Y /0 Tt/€!J(?,q y r5 t1T 6/&fl r/ :r·W4S WOf}f}LY FtJ!f A WE£K.~

Page 22 . CONCORDIENSIS,' Februa,ry 25, 1'988 I ---r: ' \ Foilers Sharp in lntercolle·giate Play . ~ . fenc.ing takes u.nojjicia:l 3rd in foil & sa/ire ByKENOROSZ Union's fencing team went to. RPI last weekend for its first competition this year. Several l()cal colleges also competed against the largely ine:x- Foil competition is judged electrically, while sabre relies on 4 judges to determine hits. perienced Union team com- posed of novices taught by more experien,ced. members. l.il.though no team scores were kept, Union came away with an unoffici~;tl thi'rd:place in both foil and sabre competition. 'There are three weapon· classes in fencing. Foil, the most popular (often seen in Errol Flynn movies), has a thin blade used for stabbing. Epee, similar to foil, has a less flexible blade and uses. the entire body as a target rather than just the torse. Least popular is sabre, a cutting weapon used for attacks on the head, arms and torse;. Of the three, Union fenced only foil and sabre in Saturday's com· petition. Team members fence in- dependently in elimination rounds composed of pools of six fencers. The toP feur from each pool go on to the semifinals and, eve11tuaUy, . the fi.na;ls. Foil com}letition is judged elec• -triclllly while sabre relies .on · fow judges to'deteriXline hits on the ;two opponents. Ubion was led Saturday bY foilists Andy Seewald, Keith Sultan and Andrew Marein· Efiron, ~;~11 of whcm progressed to the semifinals. Sultan, de::;()ite his relative inex .. peri~nce, continued on to the finals and captured fourth place for Union. Virginie Melio and Adam Gahtan also put in a stro:ng showing, contributing to the success of the team. In sabre, Gary Lambert and Ken Orosz tied for fourth, assuring Unicn -of third place overall in both weapon classes. Union Ski Team Goes Fishing With the Critters O~n the R.oad By MARK HAUGHTON There is a st()ry to be told of h()W the big one got away for the Union Ski team: We members wish to convey. The weekend past was the sight of the NCSA Eastern Regi()nal Ski Race. Con verging on Waterville Valley a diverse group of teams from the east including RIT, Clarkson, Plymouth State (DEF: those f~w who missed the train to Calgary), Syracuse (played an important role in this tale), SUNY Buffalo, Boston . College, Brown (Honorable Mention), and other In order to gain one of those top spots, we were aware of the fact that we had to beat Clarkson or Syracuse. ':',· , · · · ~ illustrious eastern colleges engaged in a fishing trip. The object was to successfully eliminate those teams (through whatever measure) stand between you and the top four positions. Those lucky four continue on to Minnesota for the National Championship. We were fifth. The slalom, for those of you who choose to remain ignorant (the slow one), was held on Friday. At the end of the day Union stood in fifth place pompously above those mediocre teams that lie below,, but angrily bebind those cheap mops that sto()d between fifth and first. Syr~cuse, the main character, wastbird. In order to gain one of th<lse top spots we were aware of the fact that we had to beat either Clarkson, which stood in fourth,· or Syracuse. The day would be Sunday after a six inch slusb fall. It all seemed to be falling into place when Syracuse's five man squad was only represented by three men, one of whom crashed and still finished, the other who seemed to be skiing a bit under the weather. They stood in eleventh while we stood in fifth. Mean- while, Clarkson was on its way to se.cQn.d: with some conv·incing second. runs. !'{ow the: stage. was set for the t(}meback of the year. First Chris Hurcomb descended with his fast, smooth run. Shortly after the Syracuse top gun raced througp the finish. Next Jon-Foxman descended a· tad less smooth and a tad less. fast than Chris. The process l!ontinued into the third Union skier as \Sparky bounced his way . do'WI1 the course. The three of us stood at the bottom of the course waiting for the other :;ix teams between Century Clubbers Tamush and Said in action vs. Oswego St. Syracuse and Union to descend. They never seemed to reach the bottom . .Slowly Syracuse moved up. They needed sixth to tie for the weekend to send the race 1nto total place points of the top ihree skiers. A young man from IUT swiftly skied down the course {For he was the great Grian Sir Brian Carlucchi) to be greeted at the last gate, upon which he halted his run, to brilliantly CHUG a beer whicll .was so generously offered by a teammate; aU occurred to the cheers orthe crowd. Little did we know that it was his ,placepoint that slipped behind tile last SyracUse finisher giving them a t()tal of 127 points to ow 128. We fools in the lodge awaited the results unknowing of their characteristics. At the awards ceremony the result was last to be announced. A Syracuse HOOP and a Unioll uuggh 'followed th~ ail- · · nouncement. SWiftly the crowi scattered with .chatter. Here in memory and thanks lie the remaining ski team members. In tbeir sorrows they extend their thanks to those graduating seniors Chris ''B~g Guy'' Hurcomb and John \Foxman\ Fox, for you have served with the utmost intensity and character. One vote for 1 \coach of the year\ goes to Jim Scheaffer on behalf of the entire Union College Ski Team. By TIMHUDYNCIA and JEN TORRANT The date was February 7, the place was Vassar College, and the event was an indoor frisbee tournament. · · The tournament attracted six teams, among ·them were the 'Crispy Critters,' a team composed of twelve Union students. Led by seniors Jeff Shoemate, Lou Schick, and Dave Reisman, the team arrived in Poughkeepsie early enough to drain McDonald's maple -syrup supply and arrive at the Vassar fieldhouse for our first match. · · 'Slipped Disk,' our first op- ponents, . were prepared and fierce as they hammered us for a 7·2 haif·time lead: Being experienced in competition, co- captain Jeff Shoemate knew just what to say to lift us from intimidation and we began to play. Endurance, desire, and raw knees, not to mention the experience of Dave Babkow, adied us to an 11-11 tie. 'Slipped Disk' went up 12-11, but we comtered with what appeared to be a fine scoring catch by Jeff Shqemate. We were denied the SC{)re on a controversial . ca:ll, and 'Slipped Disk' scored for the 13·11 Victory. 'Slipped Disk' went on to the fin!lls and played point•for-point with the 'Moscow State' team. Before this, however, the Critters played to a selid win oveT Vassar College (13·9), wbich was highlighted by Ketrina Knoff's score and Jen Torrant' stackle in the end zone. 'rhe victory over Vassar shliuld be attributed to the wbole team, which includes (besides the six mentioned): Andre Hadda, Eddie Remy, Tim Hudyricia, 'Jordan Som· -· mer, Brad Doyle, and Mike Mille are. 'E'he frisbee team is looking forward to a fun and successful SIJI\ing and welcome aU to join us whenever we are practicing 011 Riclunond Field. ' The Critte-rs ECAC Div. II West Hockey Playoffs UNI,QN at R.I.T. Saturday, feb. 27th .. 7:30pm 'Uve on WRUC 89.7 FM

CONC0'8D18NSIS, Fe/Jruary 25, 1988 Page 23 Qy DAVE MOltiUSON Associate Sports Editor The Union CoH~ge L~dy Dutchmen basketball team recently ended tlieir ~eason with a record of 9-9, In com- parison With seasons past, '88 stands out as a ''unique'~ season. This season will be remembered as the first season since 1984: that the Lady Dut- chmen have posted a non-losing season.· The success of the Women's Basketball team is due, in part, to the outstanding play ofMichelle·V anPatten, this week's \Miller Athlete of the Week\. Van Patten· is a $'11\ forward- center out of Cicero North Syracuse High School frolll Clay, N.Y. She is a senior mechanical engineering .major and a four-year v~rsjty letter winner. Van Patten was voted tri\captain for this season and . has more than adequately lived up to her leadership position. Van Patten led the .team with Athlete :of th,e Week Michelle Van Patten the highest field-goal .per- centage of the season at 4~.3 percent. She was also third in total scoring. She was named to the Capital District All-Tourney team and has been a major contributor in all aspects of · team play. Van Patten showed great defensive skill by leading the team in reboWlds and making 13 .steals throughout the seaS()n. In her most recent games she came on strong to lead the .Lady Dutchmen in all- around play. In a 62.:581oss to St. Rose,. Van Patten scored 14 point:s and pulled down 10 rebounds. The following game against Russell Sage,· Van Patten turned out another stellar performance.. Van Patten netted 20 points and 9 rebounds, leading the Lady Dutciunen to victory. Michelle Van Patten haS obviously spent four years woding hard for her . team· mates and for Union ahtletics. She is to be congratulated for her ·outstanding efforts of late and.throughout the season, and we wish her good luck in the futute. We also would like to thank the Union College Lady Dlltchmen and coach Bonnie Gehling for an exciting . and successful season. School Records Fall: at MAC Meet Last Sunday, the Union College track teams headed south to compete in the Metropolitan· Athletics Congress (MAC) cham- pionships in West Point. Run on the Army's fast, 200 meter track, the meet provided a good opportunity for quick times. The women's team took ad- vantage of ,the facilities as they borke two school records in relay events. The 4x200 meter relay team of Meg Parsons, Terri Thomas, Jen Lee, and Dentse McMillan finished first in the open division with their record 1:51.77 time. Lee, Parsons, and Thomas were also members of the other record- setting team, the 4x400 meter relay. Lee and Parsons both clocked splits of 62.9 seconds in leading the team to a \fully automatic\ time of 4:17.91. Aside from their relay per- formances, Thomas, Parsons, and Lee also sh<me in their individual events. Thomas picked up a third ))lace in the high jump, leaping 1.53 meters. Lee finished third IJVerall in the · 800 meter dasy, as she con- tinued to run strongly in that event with a 2.:23.8 timing. Parsons added a 28.84 second 200 meter dash to t!Omplete her busy ~y. Union's 4x800 meter . relay team of Sherry Cargile, Lynette Nielsen, Jen Regan, and Maria Leonarci came from behind to win the ()pen division of that event witll a time of 10:42. Leading the way for the men's team was senior Jeff Barker who ran 2:00.14 in the unseeded section of the 800 meters. Barker's time; which qualified him· for the state meet, got him second in the heat and seventh overall. Jim LeBrou finished second in his unseeded section of the 3000 meter rWl. LeBron ran a, personal best ·8 :59;89 and missed qualifying f<lr the state . meet by only 5 seconds. This weekend, the Union Women's track team will be hosting the NYSCWT&F A state meet. The event will be held Friday and Saturday at the field house. Spectators are welcome! The men's.~team travels to Troy on Saturday for the RPI in- vitatiDnal, the final tWieup for them before their state meet. Lady Tracksters Attack West Point By SHERRI CARGILE and MARIA LEONARD Tbe Union Women.'s Track Team traveled south last weekend to West Point for the Metropolitan Athletics Congress Ch&mpionships. Although competlng. against unfamiliar teams, the lady tracksters made themselves known by collecting 11 medals. . Starting off the day; freshman Terri Thomas nabbed a third place position in tile high jump earning herself the first of two medals. In a competitive mile run, two gutsy performances were turned in by Eileen Brady and L,ynette Neilse11. Out of the four Union competltors in the 800m rWl, Jen Lee placed thir~ overall with. a time of 2:23. Jen Regan, although being spiked during the race, ran a personal best .of 2:39 in the .same. race. Qaulifying for this weekend's State· Meet was Meg Parsons With an impressive time of 28.7 in the 200m run. In the 55m hurdles, Lorie An.derson cap- tureil the bronze medal with a tim.e of 10.2 while Terri Thomas followed close behind. ' Of the three Union relay teams, two (the 4 x 2()0m and the 4 x 400m relays) ran fast enough to qualify for the State and ECAC meets and the other (the 4 x 800tn relay) gave Union its only win .of the day. The debut perfocrmance of Terri Thomas, Denise McMillan, Meg Parsons and Jen Lee in the 4 x 200m relay broke standards as they crossed the line second with a time of 1:51. Much of this same team. (Terry Thomas, Claire Ginsberg-Lytle, Meg Parsons andJen Lee) carne back in style to rtlll a 4:17 in the 4 x 400m relay. In a very exciting race, the 4 x 800m relay (Sherri Cargile, Lynette Neilsen, Jen Regan and Maria Leonard) nosed out the competition to bring home the gold medal with a time of 10:36. The Women's Track Team now enters a week of rest as theJ' prepare for the two·day State Meet. SUPPORT UNION. SPORTSI C!ronc~trbttnsts · · SPORTS With A Perspective On Sports On the one day of the y.ear set aside for love, and a sllo\V ()f affection, the viewing a11dience of the nation had its beart ripped out. You couldn~t. help but feel sorry for the guy. Your feelings ran the emoti4)nal gamut. It just wasn't fair ! On Valentine's mornin.g 1~118, Olympic speedskater Dan Jansen's 27-year-old sLster, Jane, mother of three~ di-ed of leukemia. To Dan, and the rest of the U.S. speedskatiilg con- tingency, it was a diSaster. Maybe jtl$t .the best 500 meter speedskater in the world, Jansen was not inumwe frc.m the effects of his l()ss. For four years Jansentr-ained every day for his shot at the gold. He was Ameri<'a 's best hope for a medal in speed- skating, and came illite~ tbe event as the odds-on faV\orite. Jansen was the prid-e of Wisconsin. The state embraced him as their \favorite son'~. The Olympic spirit had S'<!ized Jansen, he would win f11r his COWltry. This all changed at 8 :;iii on Sunday morning. Janse:n,. -wbo had received wishes of good luck from his sister in an eally morning phone call, ~ot the word from his parent::! tllat Jane had passed away after fighting a year-long oout with leukemia. The news '\Vas quickly picked up by the .meda. Jenson's tragedy became~j)ub­ lic affair, The media portr-ayed Jansen, accurately, ,as· an angered and frustrated mBil. I11 just hours he was to compete in the race of his life. All his .liard work would be put up to the test. Jansen dedicated the race to the memory of his sister. The story ·had all the makings of a Hollywood script: the tragedy,. the emotion, the total dedication. The race pitted Ja11sen against Japan's Yusushi Kuroiwa. As the two skaters crouched into the starting position emotions began to rise. You wanted him to win. As he left the starting line your bOdy lunged forward with his in. a break from the crouch. Jansen took'offin perfect form, pulling out to an early lead. As he eased through the first turn you believed in him. He was larger than life, and about to skate into your heart. And then it hap- pened. One.quarter into the race Jansen's left skate gave way, and with it. the hopes of millions. It seemed like he slid forever, eventually coming to an abrupt halt against the foam rubber barrier. It was·o:ver. \Let him try again,\ you screamed. \It's not fair, that's not supposed to happen,'' you thought. It was real, and it hurt. Jansen's years of training slid away in the Olympic oval. The loss of his sister was DnlY comi>ounded. The day of love and sharing turned into o11e of sorrow and despair fo~ ~l:)e 2~ . year-old Wisconsin speed- skater, and the nation. He deserved better! Equestrians Ride Again By SHARON PANAS The Union Equestrian 'ream was up for the slinrise agalia Uist Saturday. This week's dest- ination was the stables ()f Skidmore College for yet another Intercollegiate llorse Show Association compettti()n. The five competing members IJf the team were rewardecl fDr their early .. rising efforts witll some excellent rides a!lcl the· ribbons to prove it. In her first show in t.hree years, Gwynne · Ricbar<ls, senior, gave an ex:c·ellent performance in the No-vice Class by placing fifth in ber jumping class and winning t:lle blue ribbon in her flat class. Christina Calvi, fresbrn2:1n, brought home a fourth plat!e ribbon in the Advanced Walk· Trot Division. But it was basically a yellow ribbon day for the Union_Toeam, with three of the five riders taking third place in their respeCtive classes. Kevin Honikel, club secretary, won third in thP Advanced WaT class. Sharon Panas, vice- president, took third in the Beginner Walk-Trot-Canter class. And Chris Wood, president, brought home a yellow in the Advanced W=TeC class. As it was the last collegiate show for this senior, I would like to thank all of the friends and relatives who supported us through our competition season. For the quick trips to McDonalds between classes, for scouting out the horses class after class, for the kind words after the not-sO-brilliant rides, and for waiting patiently in unheated barns for hours at a time, we thank you. Congratulations to the team and good luck in future shows. Good Luck in the Playoffsl afrom everyone at Concordiensis ' .. •

fl) S2 a: 8~ 8 UJ (ij t; ~ 0 b :c • • • <· ••• ,;; _,_ • c.. Dag .. Rep pen makes the tag to teammate Steve 'Listzwan in the Eastern Regionals. The Skating Dutchmen upset natlonal.ly ranked Oswego a.:7 in OT to set up their playoff b:id. February 25, i 988 Hoopsters Wind Up Home Season With· a Win Union Skaters Clinch Playoffs: Set to Play R.I. T. By MARK V ANEUREN As has been the case all season, the Union College men's basketball team was invo:vled in two close contests this past week. The Dutchmen lost to Elmira, 74-69, and then came back to defeat Nazareth, 82-70, in their last hQme game of the season. Against Elmira, a team that has only lost once at home all year (a two point decision to Hartwick), Union got off to an early lead, 14-12, after two Doug Gregory free throws. The rest of the first h.alf was a night- mare, however~ Elmira went on an 18-2 run over the nex:t five minutes to open up a 30-16lead with 8:18 to play in the first half. The Dutchinen cut Elmira's advantage in half, 31-24, on another Do11g Gregory free throw at the 4: 01 mark. This is as close as they would get for the rest of the period,as Elmira outscored them 12-2, to take a 43-26 halftime lead. Union beg!=ln the second period very strong. After four and a half minutes had elapsed, the Elmira lead was c11t to 11 points, 47·3G. Three minutes later, at the 12:36 mark, the gap was 10 points, 53-43. With 6:11 left to play Dylan Kelley con- verted an offensive rebound into a basket to bring Union to within 8 points, 62-54. Doug Gregory's lay-up with 3:55 showing on the clock pulled Union closer at 66-60. Tom Beck's three point field goal with 46 seconds left brought the Dutchmen as close as they would come, 5 points, 70-65. The two teams traded hoops for the rest of the game as Union was dealt yet another close defeat. Dylan Kelley paced Union with 21 points and 10 rebounds. Joe Romer added 17 points and Doug Gregory chipped in with 15 points and 16 rebounds. Last Saturday, the Dut- chmen gained an early 13-4 lead five minutes into the game. Nazareth was able, thanks to a 15-9 mn, to narrow the Union advantage to 22-19 with just under 8 minutes remaining to be played in the first half. Tom Beck's three point field goal at the 6: 10 mark, extended the Dutchmen's lead to 27-22. Nazareth pulled within 3 points, 33-3(}, after John Garbinski's jumper with 2:17 left before halftime. Union outscored Nazareth 5-2 the rest of the period to take a 38-32lead at the intermission. The Union lead was still 6 points after Tom Beck hit a three point field goal 7 :·37 into the second half. Two minutes later, Joe Romer's lay•up made it 58-48 in favor of the Dut\ chmen. Union opened up its largest lead of the game, 13 points, 74-61, after Joe Romer canned two free throws with just 3:08 remaining in the contest. The game was fairly even the rest of the way, as the Dutchmen converted 6 of 9 free throws the last two minutes to preserve the victory. Dylan Kelley and Tom Beck added 23 and 14 points respectively. DUTCHMEN NOTES ...... With 4 games remaining, the Dut- chmen are 9-12 (not including Tuesday's game vs. Nor- wich) .... Union's final 4 games are on the road .... There is still a possible ECAC T()urnament hid looming if the Dutchmen win their remaining 4 con- tests .... Dylan Kelley leads Union in scoring with a 20.1 ppg average. Joe R()mer is second at 19.4 ppg clip .... Kelley is .also leading the team in rebounding, averaging 8.:3 rpg. Doug Gregory at 6.5 rpg. and Romer at 5.7 rpg. trail Kelley .... Tom Beck is just 65 assists away from the school career assist record of 556, stt by Joe Clinton from 1979-83. By DAVE MORRISON Assoc~ate Sports Editor BATTLE ROYAL IN NORTHFIELD The Union College Skating Dutchmen went. to Northfield, Vermont knowing that their destiny could be sealed with a win against the North Cadets .. The Dutchmen came out against the Cadets very flat in the first period. Norwich went 11:p easily on three easy goals from right in front of the net. At the end of the firsj; period it looked like the Dutchmen's luck had run out, with the score 3-1 after a Scott Cyr goal in the waning minutes.of the first half. Dutchmen had upest yet another ranked team and virtually locked up an ECAC playoff bid. NO EASY RIDE lN MANCHESTER On the road again, the Dut- chmen were riding the crest of a big win against Norwich, into Manchester, N.H. to face St. Anselm's College. Union .got out to a 1-0 lead late in the first when Nelson Said scored. With the score 2-1, St. A's ahead, Gary Temush became yet another 'Century Clubber' by tying the score at 2-2 giving him his lOOthpoint of his career. In the second period St. A's proved that they would not be taken lightly and took the lead at 3-2. Union, however, would not be denied and Bill Snow tied the score at 3-3 late in the second. Nordic Season Races to a Close In the second period the D11tchm.en had finally taken off t:heir \bus-legs\ and started to play their own brand of hard- hitting, physical hockey. Union looked renewed and were out to steal another game from a nationally-ranked team. Ron Kinghorn made many ex- ceptional saves holding Nor- wich to only three goals. Guy Logan made the score on a pass from Nelson Said. The assist gave Said his lOOth career point which made him the ninth player in Union hockey history to become a member of the 'Century Club.' The score was then sent to a tie at 3-3 when Gary Temush popped in his 99th career point. Going into the third period, the game was tied and the game was .sitting for Union to take and that they did. The Dutchmen were 'faced with another 3-3 tie going into the last twenty minutes of the game and they again would overcome their opponent for the win. ''Old Faithful,\ Scott Cyr put Union ahead 4-3 right away in the third period. Phil MacLaughlin .got his third goal in six games since coming up from JV's making it 5-3. Finally, Union's leading goalscorer Guy Logan would cap it off With Union's sixth goal of the game and a game clin- cher, on an open net. Goalie Ron Kinghorn played another outstanding game, raising his record to 7-6-1 with 21 saves agains.tSt. Anselm's. By SUSAN K~RSCH Amidst Sllb-zero tem- peratures, the Cross Country Ski Team capped their season off with formidable showing in the Eastern Regionals. The event was held in Lake Placid. There, skiers faced not only difficult weather con- ditions, but the challenging Oylmpic ski course with more than its fair share of hills. For the men's individual, Union's Dag Reppen skied an exceptional race. Reppen finished first for Union and 23rd overall. Althoagh he brolte a pole early in the ra~e •. St~ve Listzwan crossed the f1msh line just a few minates later. Will Shields placed third for Union with a time of 64 minutes in the 15 kilometer race. In the women's individual, Union was represented by Susan Kerseb who placed fif- teenth, finishing the lOK in 58 minutes. In the men's lOK re1ay Union skiers played a fast paced game of catch up. Shields skied first leg against many of the schools' top racers. Reppen, on a· hot new .pair of skies, made .up an incredible five minutes to pass the Yale team. Listzwan further buried the competition, making up an additional five minutes. Union not only defeated Yale, but skied past Syracuse's B team as well as Army's B team. Union not only defeated Yale, but skied past Syracuse's B team and Army's B team. Joining Yale's relay team, Kersch skied the last leg of the 5K race in 31 minutes to establish a personal record. In addition to league meets, the team previously competed in a citizen's race at the Schenectady Mllnicipal Golf Course. For the men, skiers Shields, Reppen and Listzwan competed. Reppen took his division. Listzwan came in second overall in the race, missing first by one second. Erika Pankon placed first in her division and second overall in her division, for the women. Kersch came in seconds behind her to finish second in her division. Barbara Stasting skiing her first competitive race, finished the collfse with the time of 45 minutes. The team says the race also provided a competitve training experience that laid a strong foundation for Lake Placid. AbOut midway through the period Scott Cyr got his second goal of the 'night and took the lead at 4-3. Momentum was finally in Union's favor and the Norwich Cadets had seemed to give up. J()hn Mcintosh scored two inslltance goals to up the score to 6-3 in thelast five · minutes of the game. The Union Union with this win clinched themselves a top 10 spot in ECAC West and assured themselves a playoff bid. Union will be traveling to Rochester, N.Y. on Saturday to face R.I.T. in their first playoff game. SUPPORT THE DUTCHMEN and \SECTION Q\ at RIT Saturday N·ight - t f ( r I 1 l

