. ~- ' ..... --~ .- .... -\\\~ ....... .,..- .. ..,., ......... :.~,.· ........... ~ .. ----~~-~. Vol. CXVlJi, No:. 7 :so·.li • :, I ·r;J •• .t1 . \, .. [ ] l&chimical ' Eng .• .. I .. I I I History Dept o Schenectady, New York J.Jept. of Econ. 0 Q I I v i ~ I £: .. n g November 3, 1988 [BiologY] • Math: i oo D PoliSci . Modern 0 o LO{fll/\eU'.:I.!ff-'3 ' Physics I I I •I I J . What's Behind These Three Doors? By FIONA SHUKRI Editor-in-Chief Proposals. to a~d three new · departmefits te un,ion's cutrieillum have been made to the. Acad~mic Affairs Committee. The committee is hoping to reach decisions on the new areas of stmJy ~~the end of this term. Tpis past Tuesday, at the request of Professor .of English Frank Gado, a faculty meeting was held to establish their ·views . and opinions on the proposals. 'After Professor Charles Ti_dmarch of the political science department, commenced the meeting with \llouskeeping·\ formalities, Gado was ·called on to comment. Gado said that he originated the petition for a faculty meeting \not primarily due to opposition to one or another of theproposals\;but because he febls it is impOrtant that the faculty are involved in the decision process of whether or not the College should implement the three proposed programs. \As we prepare for a post-Morris era, it is important that we once again assert. our role as faculty in shaping academic ·priorities. and the curriculum.\ He stated that it was '\vital that we (the faculty) discuss these programs and be infonned.\ Assistant Professor of History, Faye D11dden made the first ptesentation. Dudden argued that women's studies should become ari ·interdisciplinary major.· As courses in gender relevancy are ~ready taught in all · five departments, Dudden maintained, that the women's studies program woufd be essentially adding depth to existing course o:ptions. Dudden stated that one of the major problems with the student body is tile \distressing non-intellectual, actually anti- intellectual'' attitude. She believes that a women's studies program would have a I>O$itive effect on the campus's \intellectual climate.\ She went on to argue that offering this major would put Union on par with its competitors, noting that 22 out of 26 colleges that Union regularly compares itself with· already offer women's ....._ studies progrilffi.S .. An added benefit would be its effect on· the applicant pool; ' 1 We know we've had a problem attracting womer;~. applicants.\ Dudden . refuted two commonly voiced .arguments. One she termed ~'The Eskimo Studies\ argument that asserts that there is 110 Jimit to sectoral interest smdies, once you implement one. Taken to the extreme, the College would be offering \Eskimo· studies. h Dudd'en discredited . the The Purple One · Why not seven. colors of M&M's? A features look at what could be. assertion,· by arguing that wom-en comprise 1/2 of the popul'ltion wt-.ereas \Eskimos do not''. She rejected the arg11ment that women's studies \is just conscious-raising, basket- weaving, flaldness\ stating that that may have been true 15 years ago, but not today. Today, top intellectual and academic institutions recognize the significance .of gender in fields varying from politics to science. Professor of Political Science and History Donald Thurston then made his presentation in favor of the Colle.ge adopting an interdepartmental East Asian studies major. He maintains that the major will not be viable unless both Chinese and Japanese studies are offered, and that we must be able to offer at least two years of each language. He stressed the importance of the Pacific Rim in contemporary times as well as' its historic cultural importance. Thurston claimed that the General Educational curriculum is very Europe-centered and that this program would enhance the current term abroad programs to Japan and China, commenting that many students returning from these _ terms have requested such a major. He stated that the College is weakest in the An Alternative Investment An analysis of the business of automobiles. humanities and that an added benefit of the program would be .th~t tt wo-uld enhapce and complement the proposed religious studies program. Associate Professor of Classics Christina Sorum, stated that the College previously offered a religious studies m-ajor up until the · 1964-65 school year and proposed that the College \resurrect\ the department. She argued that religious studies have traditionF.lly been recognized as a discipline and only 3 out of 33 comparable colleges do not offer such a major. Sorqm also noted that the proposed curriculum would receive a lot of support from already existing courses. The major concerns voiced by the faculty seemed to be financial. Gado mentioned his concern that the College would try to raise the money for the new departments by accepting more students. He noted that SAT verbal scores dropped more than 70 points from the class of 1972 to tile class of 1991. Professor of Electrical Engineering, Edward Craig pointed out that with salaries, benefits, offices, -etc., the cost of each new faculty member would be approximately $75,000. Other worries that the new proposals would require resources that are needed elsewhere, for example the arts department, were maqe evident. Also of concern was that the new m~jors not become ''cut and paste jobs\ Hke many of the existing inter-departmental majors. Dean of Faculty, James Underwood stated that the College's financial position is relatively sound. He said that the College should not lose courage · in . adopting new policies because of their short- term drawbacks. He claimed that the one . of the major criterion for deciding upon these proposals should be whether or not they will enhance the General Education curriculum and also of importance, whether the addition~ would help the College's competitiveness. About 1/2 of the faculty members present left soon after the floor was opened up for comment, and those that remained primarily requested , more detailed reports· of the financial and practical considerations before they would come to a decision. While the Academic Affairs Committee will make the fmal decisions about the proposals, they will consider the recommendations of the faculty. Skating Dutchmen defeat U Conn in pre-season tune up. ·24 ;\,

Founded Qt . ('.Y.t Vol. CXVIII, No. 7 IEngfishl. .I I liedlllll.ll:al 0 . Eng •• I. I I I Kis~ary Dept. o Schenectady, New York c I II I I E n g uep-.:. of Econ.· 0 I ~ Clas~cs • I Bi ology'j 0 November 3, 1988 Math 1 D PoliSci 0 I [ I Physics I ., I What's Behind These Three Doors? By FIONA SHUKRI Editor-in-Chief Proposals to add three new departments to Union's curriculum have been made to the Academic Affairs Committee. The committee is hoping to reach decisions on the new areas of study by the end of this term. This past Tuesday, at the request of Professor of English Frank Gado, a faculty meeting was held to establish their views and opinions on the Jlroposals. ·After Professor Charles Tidmarch of the political science department, commenced the meeting with 11 houskeeping\ formalities. Gado was called on to comment. Gada said that he originated the petition for a faculty meeting \not primarily due to opposition to one or another of the proposals II, but because he feels it is important that the faculty are involved in the decision process of whether or not the Colle,ge should implement the three proposed programs. II As we prepare for a post-Morris era, it is important that we once again assert. our role as faculty in shaping academic ·priorities. and the curriculum.~~ He stated that it was 11 vital that we (the faculty) discuss these programs and be informed.~~ Assistant Professor of History. Faye Dudden made the first presentation. Dudden argued that women's studies should become an interdiscipliDary major. As courses in ge11der relevancy are already tau,gbt in all five departme11ts, Dudden maintained, 1llat the women's studies program would be essentially adding depth to existing course options. Dudden stated that one of the major problems with the student body is the \distressing non-intellect11al, actually anti- intellectual\ attitude. She believes that a women's studies program would have a po~itive effect on the campus's \intellect!lal climate.~~ She went on to argue that offering this major would put Union on par with its competitors, noting that 22 out of 26 colleges th.at Union regularly compares itself with already offer women's studies programs. An added benefit would be its effect on the applicant JlD()l; \We know we've had a problem attracting women applicants.~~ Dudden . refuted two commonly voiced arguments. One she termed \The Eskimo Studies\ argument that asserts that there is no limit to sectoral interest studies, once y()u implement one. Taken to the extreme, the College would be offering 11 Eskimo studies.~~ Dudden discredited the The Purple One Why not seven colors of M&M's? A features look at what could be. assertion, by arguing that women comprise 1/2 of the population whereas 11 Eskimos do not 11 • She rejected the argument that women's studies \is just conscious-raising, basket- weaving, flakiness\ stating that that may have been true 15 years ago, but not today. Today, top intellectual and academic institutions recognize the significance of gender in fields varying from politics to science. Professor of Political Science and History Donald Thurston then made his presentation in favor of the College adopting an interdepartmental East Asian studies major. He maintains that the major will not be viable unless both Chinese and Japanese studies are offered, and that we must be able to offer at least two years of each language. He stressed the importance of the Pacific Rim in contemporary times as well as its historic cultural importance. Thurston claimed that the General Educational cmriculum is very Europe-centered and that this program would enhance the current term abroad programs to Japan and China, commenting that many students returning from these terms have requested such a major. He stated that the College is weakest in the An Alternative Investment An analysis of the business of automobiles. humanities and that an added benefit of the program would . be that it would enhance and complement the proposed religious studies program. Associate Professor of Classics Christina Sorum, stated that the College previously offered a religious studies major up until the 1964-65 school year and proposed that the College 11 resurrect\ the department. She argued that religious studies have traditionP.lly been recognized as a discipline and only 3 out of 33 comparable colleges do not offer such a major. Sorum also noted that the proposed curriculum would receive a lot of support from already existing courses. The major concerns voiced by the faculty seemed to be financial. Gado mentioned his concern that the College would try to raise the money for the new departments by accepting 1 more students. He noted that SAT verbal scores dropped mme than 70 points from the class of 1972 to the class of 1991. Professor of Electrical Engineering, Edward Craig pointed out that with salaries, benefits, offices, etc., the cost of each new faculty member would be approximately $75,000. Other worries that the new proposals would require resources that are needed elsewhere, for example the arts department, were made evident. Also of concern was that the new majors not become \cut and paste jobsll like many of the existing inter-departmental majors. Dean of Faculty. James Underwood stated that the College's financial position is relatively sound. He said that the College should not lose courage in adopting new policies because of their short- term drawbacks. He claimed that the one of the major criterion for deciding upon these proposals should be whether or not they will enhance the General Education curriculum and also of importance, whether the additions would help the College's competitiveness. About l/2 of the faculty members present left soon after the floor was opened up for comment, and those that remained primarily requested more detailed reports of the financial and practical considerations before they would come to a decision. While the Academic Affairs Committee will make the fmal decisions about the proposals, they will consider the recommendations of the faculty. Skating Dutchmen defeat U Conn in pre-season tune up. Page 24

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS November 3, ·J98lf · ... \. <!tnncnrl»i.ensis NEWS ANALY·SIS Strong Campaign· Staff Is Key to Presidential Race By EZRA SHERMAN \ This year, the reward for having the most able-bodied campaign staff will be winning the presidential election, With Dukakis trailing by at least 8-9 points, the Bush people are finally seeing the fruits of their labor. Tb fully appreciate tlieit accomplishment, take a look at how successful they were in packaging their candidate and labeling their opponent without respect to either candidate's previous records. First, the Bush people were a bre to preserve the popularly held belief that Republicans are better able to manage the economy and successfully diverted attention away from some Bush weaknesses and. Dukalds successes. The three trillion dollar deficit, mostly accumulated during Reagan's eight years, will continue to grow if Busli sticks with .his promise to finance SDI while maintaining all other military programs and not raising taxes. In fact, Bush's capital gains tax · men's records. Furlough : guns. in 1986 alone. break whic·h would allow programs, which Bush says are people earning over $200,000 so reprehensible, are not to gain an average benefit Qf . . indigenous to Massachusetts. $30,000 Would amount to a alone. All told, 40 states have 4.8 billion dollar·. los.s in furlough programs along with the federal government, and With llnkakis trailing -by . California had a furlough at least 8-9 points, the program when Reagan was Bush people are finally \governor. S hnilar to .seeing the· fruits of their · Massachusetts, there were cases labor. in California where furloughed revenue, according to a recent criminals went on to commit issue of Business week. violent crimes. Massachuset~ Meanwhile, Bush likes to say has the lowest crime rate of that taxes per person in any industrialized state. On the Massachusetts under Michael . other hand, Bush bas been Dukakis have increased the against \banning plastic second-fastest of any state. handguns {a position shared by Finally, there is the question of which. candidate· is most . partisan and which is-rnost in touch with the feelin.gs of the . majority of voters. Again, hats · off to the :Bush campaign team . for being partially successful in · applying the liberal Iaber to Dukakis. But stop and consider what constitutes liberal and con-serv:ative, Consider for a •: Under Dukakis ••• I personal income in Massachusetts has. increased faster than· any other state • ·• · • and it has the. lowest crime rate of any industrialized statt:. However, the full story is that hijackers), and the NRA, in revenues per person have which Buslf is a card carrying increased because personal · · member, has fought against income in Massachusetts has • banning 'teflon bullets (a increased the fastest of .any • positi~n shared by cop killers) moment the lil>eral stereotype , state. Massachusetts actually and the Brady Amendment of high spendin.g without ranks 35th among states in the . which called for a seven day regard for resau:rces which . share of personal income it I waiting period for anyone follows Bush's ·proposed takes in taxes. wanting to buy a handgun. military spending and. promise Bush scores in the law J, Incidentally, a wait:ing period · not totaisetaxes. Consider the enforcement debate are also in California stopped 1500 , conservative notion of less confusing considering both convicted felons from buying : • government interference and then look at Bush's opposition to private sector financed health care - delegating millions of currently uninsured people to govem:inent health support. And consider the conservative's image of being upfront and candid and remember that the VP maintained for over .a,year that he did not know about the arms-for-hostages deal. ,and then r\X:ently told Dan Rather that he did go along with it after all. Bush's refusal to participate in a debate moderated by Ted Koppel and, most recently, one proposed by Michael Dt:lkakis for November 7, insures that no unpredictables will be able to :ruffle the sUck package prepared over the Jast few months. If George Bush the · · president lives up to -George Bush the commodity, as sold to the Americam voter by his campaign staff,. I may vote for him in 1992. But I can't help remeMbering that a package's appearance and content are often .two very different things. Election '88 Awards Given For Hypocrisy and Bad Taste By JED FERDINANQ The presidential campaign. of · 1988 has succeeded in reaching all time lows of both integrity and fairness. Now that the campaign is almost over, I thought it would be appropriate to recognize some of these a.ccomplishments. Thus, I hereby award the first annual \rotten egg\ awards: for hypocrisy and bad taste above and beyond the call of presidential poUqcs. -Best Actor: to George Bush, who throughout the campaign portrayed himself as a defender of the little guy and of traditional American values. I wonder where he learned them, at Yale or in one of his many .country clubs. -lle s t S u p p or tin g Actor: to Dan Quayle, who throughout the campaign nation's intelligence by or what exactly 1t wHl do~ showed America why he is selecting Dan Quayle as his excep~ that it will solve the simply not qualified to hold the . running mate: If you wanted nation's education and health second.highest.office in the free Robert Redford, why did't you care problems. world. Let us pray for the just pick him? - L,eas t , . . Pop u l;l r continued good health .of ~ -Best 'Evasion of ~n ·.Ideology: Liberal mashing George Bush. I Important Issue: to both seems to he the trend of the -The Mr. Personality candidates, for successfully times: it just doesn't pay to be Award: tQ Michael Dukakis. . avoiding the deficit problem. : open-minded any more. It simply does not matter that Bush Offered no solution, -The . 9 8- Po u n d he may be the most competent saying that the deficit would W e .a k I in g.: to Michael man to_ seek the presidency in essentially work 'itself out Dukakis, for allowing the the last 25 years, he can't tell a through a flexible spending Republicans to attack his joke, has bushy eyebrows, .and . freeze, while Dukakis wants to ' patriotism and crime record looks like an orthodontist. crack down on people who without fighting back. Does it -The :Wasted Talent don't pay ·their income tax. 1 bother anyone that .the two Award: to Lloyd Bentsen, don't know which is worse, most important issues in this who scored the most .dramatic d . . campaign were the Pledge of · · · 1 · · d b t · omg nothtng or having an · Allegt'anc· e .and the rel.ease of vtctory m te ev1ston . e a e . history, yet will probably not : · army of IRS agents invading Willy Horton? my house. !. hold the vice-presidency. How •Most Original Way of ..:Most Valuable Player: about Lloyd for President in Saying Nothing: to Bush, to Ro~er . Aile~, Bush's 1992? for'his .. 1 , 000 points of light\ I. commu~tc~tiOf!S drre.ctor, (an~ -Worst Decision: to'· No one knows what it means I the ~ram~ behmd Ntxons re~ George Bush for insulting the 1 electton m 1972). Maybe the . best dirty-trickster in the .history of presidential elections. If you were the Republicans, 'woUld' you Want. . anyoneelseworking for you?, -Big Lose.rs: to the Democr~tic party, for allowing . the Repablicans to steal away · an electl~n that they all but locked,;u~ in AJ,Jgu~t. -Biggest Lose:rs: once , again, ·the American people, who continue to be subjected to this ·kind of treaiment by presidential candidates. Where h~s all the sincerity gone? It's probably floating in Boston Harbor.· · I Finally, the grand prize goes · to both the Republican and . Democratic parties for making. ' · this a cantpaign to remember 1 • for all of :the wrong: reasons. Remembrance Of Kristallnacht: Fifty Years Later By RO~ERT GOLUMAN various stages such as the Nuremberg Laws of 1935, . November 9 and 10 mark the.· which stripped Jews of German passing of 50 years since the citizenship. One of these steps night when Nazi Germany involved the deportation of· launched an attack on its Polish Jews }Nho were residing Jewish population. These riots · in Genhany. On the night of marked a major transition in October 27, 1938, 18,000 · Nazi policy, and were a prelude : Polish Jews were deported, but. to the idea of genocide - the refused entry by the Polish final solution. On this night, authorities. Caught in between, well organized and heavily· the Jews were forced to camp armed storm troopers fanned out in makeshift shelters. out to destroy anything Jewish. · Upon hearing that his family the Nazis called it Kristallnacht was so trapped, 17 ... year-old .. (literally meaning night of. Hershel Grynszpan, a student shattered glass). However, the in Paris, shot the third memories of the past riots secretary of the German mean more than just broken Embassy, Ernst Yom Rath, glass. whom he mistook for the Nazi anti-semitic policy ambassador. This assas~ination began with the systematic · served as the pretext for legal, economic, and social KristaUnacht disenfranchisement of the Jews. Synagogues erupted in This was accomplished in · flames: 267 synagogues were smashed, 7,500 Jewish shops were vandalized and J-ews were rounded up. 29,756 Jews were sent to concen ..... tration camps and 91 Jews were killed. If you were Jewish. in Germany and Austria, there was soon no place to ~ide and no place to go. The aftermath of this President Roosevelt recalled the American . ambassador from Berlin, stating. that be \could scarcely believe that sue~ things could occur in a twentieth century civiUzation. ;, policy -was the first violent pogrom (riot) on Western European soil in hundreds of vears. The violence ofKristallnacht aroused the world to condemn the Nazi actions. President Franklin 0. Roosevelt recalled . . the American ambassador from Berlin stating that he :ttcould . scarcely believe that such .. things could occur in a twentieth century civilization.'' In the month of September 1988, 5 Torah scrolls were · burned by vandals. in Brooklyn, New York. This did not occur · 50 years ago .nor did it happen in far-off Germany. \ln E'urope the first thing the enemy did was break into the synagogue and bum the Torah scrolls,,; .said Ellie Wiesel, the Nobel laureate and ehtoniclet of the Nazi Holocaust. The fifty y~ . that separate Krlstallnacht ana ·the recent burnings of $ Torah · Scrolls teachea society that Wt: •• .can never forget the tragedy of the Holocaust. On November .5,- this ·Saturday, in Hale House at 11:30, Jan Karski will speak about his experience as liaison between the allies and the Polish underground during World War JI. He will relate to us the bitter memories of Kristallnacht and the tragedy of the Holocaust. On November 9, the Schenectady community has agreed to leave the lights . on in all places of worship, in · memory of K.ristallnacht. In accordance -with this decision, · Memorial Chapel will leave the lights on for the entire night. May the Iig·hrs of the Memorial Chapel serve as a remembrance of KristaUnacht and a sign to all that we must · never forget. · ·

I I CONCORDIENSIS November 3; 1\988 Page 3 Student ~Forum Suggests College Center Improvements ·By STEPHANIE JARYNA '. Meeting in the Atrium of the College Center last week, the Student Forum discussed the · use o~ the ·Center. Pte sent at the Forum : • meeting ·were both Jerri Clark, ·. director of the College Center. • . and Mrs. Marra, director of • · student activities. Both Mrs. : -- Marra and Ms. Clark encouraged Student Forum of Winter Term. Clark credited theCoUegeCenter. suggestions while they helped the seemingly drudgery of red . There seems to be much to clarify current College tape to the fact that what was · encouragement toward the Center policies and practices. once Carnegie is now a return of a variation ·Of Though it appears that College Center, not a Student · · Dutchman's Night Dinners. numer(i).us i~provements and. Center. Changes in the Mrs. Marra is currently changes are in the . · · · . physical aspect and operational working through the planning through suggestions of the Committee on the College Center, the college communi~ should not expect to see the results of any of these changes any time before the beginning procedures in the building need stages of these dinners with · t~ obtain approval through input from Forum members on n u m e r o us campus reasonable prices. · administrators to insure that , The Dutch Hollow Pub was changes benefit the whole of criticized for both the the College Community. ' inefficient system of serving Included in the suggestions · . cu~tomers during the daytime were: Putting a television . and for often closing before along with couches and · · designated posted hours during comfortable chairs in the pit of the week. This comment was the atrium in an attempt to noted by Jerri Clark. create a more casual relaxing In conclusion, it was atmosphere, contrary to the · determined to be the concensus \mallish restaurant\ . of Forum members that the atmosp:here currently in the . College Center be used as a atrium. In addition, the social atmosphere and not as Committee on the College : another place to study on Center is toying with the idea . campus. Many Forum of moving video games.and lhe members believe that the pool table into the atrium of ~ Cpllege Center should be just a Student Center on the first floor, providing the types of activities and atmosphere .. 1 which will generate a crowd of students utilizing the building. Excellent suggestions have been made concerning the use of the College Center, however, the bureaucracy of implementing the suggestions indicate there is little hope of seeing improvement this school year. And, as a bit of a side note - there are no new developments known concerning the status of naming the College Center. Student Forum will be meeting tonight at Richmond House at 7:00 P.M. Open discussion will include the Security Issues on campus as well as Women's Issues in general. The entire College Community is invited to attend. Study-Space Issue Raised As Term Closes By KRIS BURNHAM As the end of Fail teQD 1988 _approaches, the studepts of Union College are faced with the serious work crunch and along with the work, they ! . must also seek out a quiet, · conducive study spot. For many students, this time in the term is the only time when they will ventu.re forth into the more 'Conventional study .areas. Schaeffer .Library · has always been somewhat of a. sore spot for many Students. \Every term, at the end, when I really NEE;Dto study, and t get to the library, I have to fjght for a desk, and even then it's College Center, many students· possess Schenectady and Albany library cards that are used many tim~s when Union's facilities are found lacking. never as quiet as it should be,\ Alternative study areas and saiq a disgruntled senior. the expansion of Schaefrer Library have been a concern of · When asked about alternative the administration as well. A study areas, many people minor controversy was raised pointed out that the College when one proposal for tile Center has proven a popular expansion of the library was to place to 'hide out' and get ·take over the space now studying done. Even with the ; occupied by the tennis courts:· . '. Those who are serious about fmding a study area are already planning ways in which to keep others out of classrooms. For those people who only want a. study area to be available for their use during crunch times, the opening of West College Dining Hall is a welcome sight; for all the others who won·'t fight the 1 crowds, there is little left. · One option has been the idea to open up the recently renovated· 01d Chapel as a study center during specified nights during the term. This idea, which a few students have voiced during the past few weeks could be viewed as one which would alleviate a problem now with little cost to the Coll~ge. As people read this article. they are reminded that some of the spots that are used by students are technicaily not open for student use. These spots include the meeting rooms in the College Center and certain classrooms . Former Peace Corps Volunteers to Speak By PROFESSQR !JRUCE R'EYNQLDS When Chip-feters joined the Peace Corps, shottJy after graduating from UniOJl in June 198(), he knew that he was headed for Sub·..Saharan Africa. But he had no idea that he'd soon be bouncing around the back roads of Mali on a · motorcycle, trying to interest ' dub~ous African y~llagers in . growing new-fangled sorts of vegetables. · \Malian farmers grow mostly rice and millet,\ explains Peters. who is now enrolled in Columbia Up.iversity's graduate program in International Affairs. \Our idea was that during the slack season, especially February through March,· they could put · in a vegetable garden to supplement their diet.\ The problem, Peters foun<l, was that the farmers, . unfamiliar with these vegetables, didn't like the taste. \They. didn't even know how to cook them!\ Peters laments. And so on top of his job as agricultural extension agent, Peters became an instant chef Report~d Security lri.cidents Dating October 24 -October 30, 1988: ·DATE TIME l0/24 10/26 10/26 10/27 10/27 10/28 10/28 10/28 10/29 10/29 10/29 10/29 10/29 10/29 10/30 10/3()' 7:17AM 1:39PM 4:1Z PM 5:13PM 11:15 PM 1:34AM 3:55AM 12:47 PM 12:04 AM 6:17AM 6:42AM 12;20 PM 7:45PM 9:31PM 1:47AM 7:09AM SAFETY TIPSj LOCATION INCIDENT Davidson Suspicious person Humanities Suspicious person College Center Suspicious person Fox/Davidson Lot Suspicious person . Fox Vandalism to Fire Door Fox Report of fight in progress (students) Raymond Vandalism to exterior door Richmond Suspicious person(s) · Silliman Hall Suspicious perosn Memorial Chapel Vandalism (broken window) S&E perimeter Vandalism (light pole) Fox Vandalism (paint) Richmond Suspicious person College Center Suspicious person Fraternity House Report of fight in progress (students & Alumnus) Webster perimeter Vandalism (construction materials) • Report ALL suspicious persons to the Security & Safety Office - note any clothing or other c;tescriptions and last known direction ·Of travel. \DO .N.OT provide access into ~uildings to people not personally known to you (i.e: holding the doorto, your residence open when asked to do so). · • DO NOi prop ANY door or lea~e ANY window open when you are not in the room. • Report all vandalism immediately. .,, . as well, cooking up vegetable jattend a public lecture and slide platters in each village in tum. show, this Friday (Nov. 4), at • , Fortunately;· by living with a 11 :40 a.m. in the College • Malian family~ he had learned Center auditorium, where Chip · at least the rudiments of the · · Peters will talk about his two- native language, Bvmbara. year experience in drought- Those who would like to stricken Africa. The lecture is know what sort of rating sponsored by the Department Peters' dishes received, and to of Economics. For more learn more about Peace Corps information, phone Prof. work as well, are invited to Reynolds (ext. 6217). The Department of Physics and History of Union College Present: MATHEMATICS, ETHICS AND BAI,IjlSTICS IN THE 16TH CENTURY Professor Andreas Kleinert University .of Hamburg, Federal German Republic, and Smith College, N orthhampton, Massachusetts In the 16th century, some mathematicians aimed to increase the ' effectiveness of artillery. Tartaglia's ideas concerning kinematyics and dynamics are characteristic of the transition form medieval to modern science, and although his theories had no substantial effect on the practive of gunnel'j(, he was one of the first scientists to feel scruples about ·doing scientific research for military purposes. Daniel Santbech has often been considered by historians as a retrograde Aristotelian, because o~ the quaintness of woodcuts illustrating the book he published in 1561. A careful look at the text shows that he had some very modern ideas concerning the true path of a projectile, and that his· illustrations were mathematical approximations rather than illustrations of his physical beliefs. (illustrated with transparencies) FRIDAY, 11 NOVEMBER 1988 REF'RESHMENTS 3:30 LECTURE 3:45 STEINMETZ 106

CONCORJ)IENSIS November 3, 1'98~ Union Mourns th.e Loss of Dylan Ketley By SCOTT ADAMS On Friday, October 28, Dylan Kelley, class of '91, was found dead, a victim of suicide. Having been missing since last T\lesday, his body was discovered in a car at the Girting Center. Dylan, a Durham, North Carolina native, starred on the Union basketball team last year as a freshman. He led the team in scoring (519 points and a 20.8 average), rebounding (205., 8.2).- field goal percentage (57 .7), free throw · percentage {8 1.8), and blocked · shots (41). He was also named ECAC player of the week three times. A memorial service was held · ,at Memorial Chapel on · Monday. Several of Dylan's friends, teammates, and coaches offered words of remembrance and consolation to the many community members who were in attendance. Dylan was a respected leader both on and off the basketball court. He has left those who kaew him with many fond memories: his ability to consume large quantities of pizza, his enjoyment of danciag around the Sigma Chi barroom, and of course his quick moves and soft touch jump shot. He seemed to do it all with a big smile on hjs\ face. The tragedy of Dylan's death comes as a painful shock. The i many people who knew and loved him will sorely miss his creativity and enthusiasm. The Acid Rain Debate By KEVIN GARDNER Some more figures for your billion a pop.\·Hmmnun. as tonish.ment: the U.S. · The technology exists tQ ;'My older brother and I j11st . pr.esently emits 23 million effectively deal with harmful fished off the bank-- caught all : to11s of sulf11r dioxide each ·emissions. The on1y thing the fish you would want t~ : · )'~ar, plus or minus CJ;- million needed to use thb technology catch. But because of acid rain, ; or two tons. This figure is is a law saying \Thou shalt not now all the flsh are gone,\ says • · Q()Wn from 30 million tons 10 . set forth harmful ell')issions.\ Clarence Petty~ . a retired , ~. ~ears ago bec~lllse of scrubber An ·act of Congress would be a forester and restdent of the . (tllat which removes sulfur · fine way to. make this law. · Adirondack: State Park since . d<lxide) requirement on coal- While atmospb~ric ·chemistry 1905. And .he's right But lake . lllJI'l1itlg plants with high sulfur '. is very comple\- and there ate acidification is the only • : (tl!a:t which makes sulfur discrepancies in scientific example of environmental ciLQ:xide) coal. 'the U.S. also results, most scientists will damage due soley to acid rain~ · emits 10 million · tons of agree on the general statement · The death of forestst which is. . 1JiktrClgen oxi4e per year. · , made by Gene Likens of the e t nsi e not only in the N.Y. B'otanical Gardens.: \The x .e . v . . . . . : . ··h· . The technology to .control scientifi.tc data about acid tairi Adirondacksb~~ world~cle, as e11tissions- exists. Wet · · · no~ be~n positively lt~ed. t() scrubbers have been in use for convinces me and many other actd ram, For years sctenusts . . · · . . . fc . · . · 1 . scientists that serious chemical b 1 . · d. th t ·th d th. ·r· h' · '- · 15 years •. e . .~:ectively pul mg nd bl'olog1'cal d. ea· m· ag\' to e . 1 eve a ~ ea 0 · tgu, .. stilfur dtoxtde fFom stack a · .·· · . · · - · \' . al .. t de \ ests tn pstate Ne · natural ecosystems is occurring . ... u . 1 or · · u • -. · w . ellll'ss·t'o·ns·. T. he .stu· d.g· e ·th.a· t t's. Y k N h C 1 w · · ·.. · · · · in the U.S. and wl.ll continue if or ' . ort aro tn:a, est .proouced can then be dealt with emissions ofsulfur dioude and Germany, Sweden, and other · in a controlled manner The pia. ces, w.. as the sole r.esult o.f re· \·son. ·tha. t scru· .· b·be·r· s ar.e n·ot nitrogen oxide are not red,uced.\ d N h \' · Similar 'sentiments w_ere acl . ram. ow t e picture ~s · • U-sed universally is: 1. they are expressed by Dave Schindler, a much more .c.omplex, as 11 Jt'<>t required universally and 2. research scientist for ap~ears th~t ozone also plays a tbey cost about 100 million Envinmment Canada, which maJor role m tree damage. · · ctollars and take up as much has a strong policy advocating Before we go any further~ a · s:;pace as the coal· plant itself.. controls for sulfur dioxide and little background. Acid _rai~ is : Cturently ti!ete are no nitrogen oxide: \spending more for~~d by su~fur dtox~cle ,' rettuirements limiting nitrogen time and money trying to emlSSlons and mtrogen oxtde · oJlide emissions. There are discuss which pollutant (acid emission~. ~n the atmosphe~e ; 'h<l\lle:ver, methods for reducing tain or ozone) is responsible · th~se em1s~Io!ls f~rm sulf~1c . nitrogen oxide. One is selective (for tree damage) is an exercise _ac1d a!ld mtr1c ac1d. Volao~e ' c~tatytic reduction (SCR), and in futility. And it makes no Org~mc ~omp.oun~s ~v09 ~n . · ther other is low nitrogen oxide sense given that reductions in conJunctiOn wtth mtnc ac1d 1n •• 1>-urners. SCR units are nitrogen oxide would reduce the atmosphere }s responsible -• t.a£ically large catalytic both acid rain anjl ozone.\ Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students 41as issued a memo to the . campus community urging them to take ·aqvantage of the following counselling ser- vices. It ' is recommended that individuals contact any- of the following perso~s to aid them in dealing with the grieving _process. for the productiOn of ozone. , c.onverters that are at the end of Summary: It is generally II These gases c~me from you:r i ·C:Oal plants. Recently, some . accepted that salfur dioxide car, from gasohne storage (f()J :: rlesearchers visited plants in em1ssums _ cause lake Counseling Center Hugh Nevin Carol Needleman Sister Joan Vlaun Joseph Mammola Fred Alford \\ 370-6161 Religious Programs 370-6618 Religious Programs 370-6539 Religious Programs 370-6087 Dean of Students 370-6116 Asst. Dean of Students Joanne Tobiessen . 370-6116 Asst. Dean of Students Sandy Mosher David Wood 370-6176 Health Services 370-6121 Residence Life 370-6117 Errata The article in last week's issue of Concordiensis titled, \Student Forum Focuses On Minority Students,\ stated that a Dean of Minority Students would \be able to get money for retention and graduation o.f minority students. It should have read that a Dean of Minority students would \be able to get money for programs for minority students.\ THE SWEATER MAN RETURNS! Friday, November 4,1988 9am-4pm College Center \iOutdoors if weather permits Great holdia.y gift ideas Credit cards accepted your car), and from. energy •. Japan that had SCR units. The acidification. It is also plants that bum foss1l fuels,. . · ~ost for the two units was generally accepted that nitrogen ptima~i~y c?al. (.for yo~1 :' llbClllt $570,000. The cost for a oxide preduces ozone. There is elect~l~lty_; 1.e. ~~~hts, au •: large u .. S. coal plant would ' . a discrepancy betw.een which condaromng, mtcrowave, . · be a bit higher (according to causes tree damage, nitrogen \\· hairdryer, e!c·~· So in exch~nge . the researchers). The U.S. oxide,.or ozone. It is generally for el~ctr1c1ty and . qUlck:, · utility industry has estimated accepted that the po~iticans in convement transportation, we the cost for identical SCR Washington have their heads get dead trees and· dead lakes. • ullits with a price of \About $1 up their asses. \ .. \ TAKE A LOOK AT CONCORDIENSIS·' NEWEST SECTION PAGE 11 THE .. SECTION \ 'I '.

CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 191JS Solld Waste; the ·Prese·nt Crisis •·; ·- · A Workshop . . Saturday, November 5 9:30- 12:30 Union Pres1lyterian Church, 1068 Park Ave .• ScheneGtady Led by Will Burbank and Julie Worth of Comell university's Eco-.Justice and Network. ' Co-sponsored by the Campus Protestant Ministry. Sponsored at Unic:m by Religious Programs . e '• • rest * * * *·* * * * * *·* * * * * * ******** We CAN Red~ce Hunger! I o .our country ~~llions of children Sti11 go hungry. Worldwid~, hundreds of m1lhons are hungry. So are cotmtless adults. This need not be .. We can overcome hunger, if we tnllster the will to do so. Join fhousanCls of others in sending a clear message to our new president. Urge him to boldly lead the nation in efforts to reduce hunger both in the United States and aro~pd the world . . Write as soon as possible after the election and before the inauguration to th~ p'resident-elect: Dukakis Campaign Attn: Chris Ed ley· 105 Chauncey St. Boston, MA 02111 • Bllsh Campaign Altn: Bill Quinby 733 15th St. N. W., Suite 800 Washington, DC 20005 Page 5 · ECAUSE GIRAFFES DON'T BROWSE IN A TEST TUBE ... join us in the best of all laboratories to study real-world environmental issues including: • Wildlife Management in Kenya • Marine Biology in the Virgin Islands • Tropical Rainforests in Australia • Marine Mammal Behavior in Mexico • Resource Management in the Circumpolar North and 14 other critical environmental issues worldwide ... Financial Aid and College Credit available for all programs THE SCHOOL FOR FIELD STUDIES Box V, 16 Brc:u~dway, Beverly, MA 01915 For more information on Semester, Summer and January programs, please join us: Monday,. November 7, 1988 ·at 2:00p.m. Seminar Rooffi. Third Floor, Old Chapel ORCALL (508) 927-7777 §he- Olfl~ U1- qyOUJV ~~ (and~ott -1Hr SrsrERS AND ?u=DGES DELTA GAMMA L~ f;RwA~'D 1o A. ~vcrr-JbseRJ L IN WHI LH LLl£ ~ 1b z:a; 'tOLL •• _2.NITS 7~.3) @t ~~~~~,f-9PM , -·INVtrAnoNS oNL'-1- COME CELEBRATE WINTER BREAK· WITH YOUR FRIENDS. AT DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT WED. 11/9 AT 5:30PM F-EAT'URIN G: PRIME RIB CH·I(KEN ATH:ENA SHRIMP ADRIATICO A $1'2 .. 00 ·value~ .. stUI only a meal card punch. To make reservations you must present yourself with your meal card to· the DH R cas:hier by 11 /7

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS November. 3, 1988 FEATURE ARTICLE.S . . . I am a Rq.cist, I am a Racist • By CHIDSEY DICKSON I am a Racist, I am a Racist, ••• That word. When I ·hear it associated with my name, with my face, with the person I know myself to be, I cringe. After I hear it ten times in one hour, I feel sick. Like I want to throw up or go away or both. My reaction, I think,. means that I am a moral person. My reaction, I think, means that I am sympathetic with the plight of the oppressed. My reaction, I think, means that I am not so ignorant as to think some people are entitled to the wealth of this nation while others are given to sup}Jort it. But mostly, last Thursday's workshop with Tony Harris has informed me, niy reaction ·means that I feel guilty because, in an important . .sense, I am. I repeat this to myself just so I might possibly accept it this time: I am a racist. Again, I ask, why? I am part of a society of predominantly vvhite, homophobic, sexiSt, racist males that inflicts its homophobic, sexist, racist feelings on others. On minorities, on females and on the future generations of white males who will, in their tum, inflict and infect tile next generatons. But my guUt is not really established by my generic association with \W Male Dominated Society\ since this alone, everyone will concur, only logically establishes my status within the scheme: it doesn't attach any responsiblity to· me personally. That is, in any case, my own assignment. My guilt is established by my actions, most readily, by my lack of action. For instance: I claim to {and do) believe that minorities ami women are treated unfairly in our society and then, paradox of paradoxes, held accountable as if they were responsible for the discrimination against them. I settled on this belief Ollie and Morris Dine In at \Chez Lanu'' By STEVE COLE and BRETT MALOFSKY \Two ladies are in a mountain resort and one lady says to the other, 'Boy the food here is terrible,' and the other lady .says, 'Yes, and in such small portions.\' Well, this Woody Allen quote is totally irrelevant to Ollie and Morris' latest dining excursion, but is one of Ollie's favorites. Though the dynamic food critics have refused countless invitations to review private parties we were told that this would be different ... and it certainly was. We dined at the home of Edward Rosenfeld and Steven Stadmauer (A.K.A. Chez Lanu), where many Union students have apparently already enjoyed fme cuisine. We begari the evening with plenty .of impGrted Beck's beer and Bass ale, which was the perfeet start to a meat after a good 15-minute walk in thirty- degree weather, along with American Classic crackers. This was also accompanied by a wonderful artichoke heart dip topped with a layer of s1ightly browned cheese, whose recipe has been handed dow11 from Edward's grandmother. (Rumor has it that she develo(led this culinary delight wh.ile her husband was out fighting the Cossacks.) The dip was still warm from the oven and almost had the consistency .of a casserole: to say the least, it was excellent. After several fruitless attempts to get· the recipe, we finally gav<C in and entered the dining room. The main course was served soon thereafter. It cottsisted of Chicken Kiev smothered in mushrooms and cream sauce. The chicken was ve~ tender, moist and well prepa1ed. The cream sauce was the perfect consistency for its purpO'se atop the chicken aad ha.d a .smooth, mellow tar;te. This same cream sauce co..,ered the vegetables: broccoli spears and cauliflower. The ve;getables were not as.crisp as tlley could have been; althouglt tilis might have been due to the fact 'that Morris was 20 min\lteS late. Still, .an acceptable c:IJoice tlf vegetables for the Chicken Kiev. The Chicken FloreRtine rice was more than adequate, but was a bit on the salty side. · F.or dessert we had one of Ollie's personal favorites: the · classic, homemade apple pie piled high with all-natural vanilla ice cream. The crust of , the pie was of whole wheat , flour and had a light, flaky texture. A bold cup of espresso was the quintesssential ending to a fine meal, and we thank . Edward and Steve for the Jinvitation. Our reason for choosing Chez Lanu was due ·to the sheer n11mbers that already dine with the budding chefs. If you have an interest in a gourmet meal, like interesting conversation, and adhere to strict yet different table etiquette, Chez Lanu may be for you. We recommend that you search out Edward and Steven for a unique dining experience, Incidentally;. the cost of the meal for·six guests, including a gross indulgence in beverages, came to about sixty dollars. These gentlemen are always interested in meeting new folk, and we encourage the community to indulge in the opportunity. Until next time, Ollie and· Morris wish you. good health. BECOME AN OUTSTANDING WRITER inteUectually but not emotionally, and, so Harris says, not completely. If I bad, 1 would be in outrage. I woUld take to the streets with banners, O(ganize coalittons, sit-in, walk-out; stop at nothing short of fisticuffs and firebombs· to make the c.ountry on which. I live so comfortably equally cetnfortable for all. Or would I? White people have an inconspicuous and pervasive networ~ whic!l controls jobs and bou:sing .and most every goodie to be had in society. Because my parents were white, I was born \in.\ I reap • the benefits of this networlc thO'ugll, of course, I am not resJlonsible for its existence. Oraml? · 1 believe all of us white . folks have replaced the \bigotry · tapes'' which were passed dOwn to us from oilr grandparents and perhaps even· our parents with our o-wn. newly fashioned \open-minded tapes.\ We made this exchange because racism is rep11gnan~ to us; it just isn't fair. For all appearances, we are notliing like our· :parents or gratldparents· who are bigoted because '\they were brought up differently than us.\ However, Harris reasonably suggests, how can we be so sure that we were brought up so differe11tly? We :thight repudiate their views bu1 what about the network that we support knowing all ·too well its consequences? · Politically, it seetnS, we ar.e a mcrally sound country. We d() not have aparthe{d; it is illegal to discriminate in the work place. Socially, though, we are as backward as any white South Mrican we might wa11t t() point a finger at. It is still <>.k. to d~scriminate at home, just don't be too ·loud about it If yeu do not think this .is tJ:ue,, how many closet bi~ots do you know? The ·network; it\ ·seems, is largely social. A coupJe.of examples.: We know now, deep inside, tltat it is navghty to laugh at , nwial jokes .but somehow, and . only in: ·the.company of people wllo· would not be hurt by these jokes (sb:tce we .are not mal.iCi()US and would never bl0wingly ·burt someone else), we -~ttill manage a snick.er,. a chortle, maybe even~ 'band over mo11th, a hearty.laagll. We know it's n()t quite right · tO \lSe facial SlU1S IeVen When it's al'l in fun or wedon'treally mean anything by it. We know it's wrong because our open- mind~<!, eq uatity :Jit>t all tapes are playing lotLd:ly and drowning out tlu inherited S()ng .()f oirr grandfathers. The fact is, the>u~h, people are hurt. The pe().]ll.e who are discriminated a~·ainst and slurred against a11d held out from the crowd as the· \t>iher\ are .hurt. Why? Bec:au:se they · only see friendly fa(Xls ~d: they only hear kindly .~oughts but their status as \ot:1Jer\ remains firm. It must ,be ·extremely puzzlng. Alt these friendly white. folk ,artd na:ry a one that will .attempt to ap]Jroach them, as we have all of ()tlr friends at Gne time, wit])' a social invitation. I am a racist l>y ,virtue of my indifference. to tile society which is so horrible to some of its people and, yet, somehow manages to reli£ve itself of gu:ilt by \p:togressive\ programs and tlle perpetual rejoinder to the victirn's cry: \It is too bad, isll't it, that prejudice exists, and some people are treated so badly, isn't it?\ As you.. see, it is not . batted' whicq <ll'uracterizes racism today, butrnsensitivity. Now that I ant ~ensiti:ve(that is, · a very - little' bit knowledgeable ()fvthat it's like to be a Black ill the White Worlcli feelsoc<Jntfortable in) . 1 Jnow.: better ltow to .fight with my own laziness, egocentrism an! complacency to try to make tq.y indifference . into a differeace: I always thought the !)toblem. was: bigger than me md; reasonably speaking, it is. lll:$t the same, . all problems mast issue from someplace and, iil the case of racism, it is nmtY little places. Y ot1 ask .where does racism originate? In Ge(}rge :Bush's words, l see a tll!rosand points of light. The fla11:1e of racism still tlickers in the dark cabinet ·Of my heart .81Ml· most likely yeQts. The Jl)()rce I (and y.ou) say it, and r~sent it, and become angered by what it meaas in terrns of ·human suffering, the cl~»~er it comes to guttering .oat.. I am a ~acist. I am a Racist FALL TERM PHONATHON NOVEMBER 6 & 7 SIGN UP YOUR TEAM TODAY! CASH PRI'ZE'S PlCK UP FORMS AT LAMONT HOUSE 3RD FLOOR

r CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 1988 Page 7 FEATURE ARTICLES- .Daddy's Toy Store The Purple One By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor tasted the preci011s candy coated chocolate bu tt~n: why no purple? What llappened to the purple M&M? Was there ever a purple M&M? I have never understood why the best, most By C. ROBERT FRlEI>RICH, JR. No matter ·how far away from home you get, memories oflt penetrate the -distance like ·nothing else,. bringing back all tlte events which shaped our lives. One thing whiQh I often remember is Saturday morning trips to the hardware store.As vre bypassed th.e old five-and- dime (a child's home away from home), I could only wish tilat after this painful journey, Father would have it in his heart to reward me · with a milkshake. Soon enough we would ,be walking through the b.ell-lacft.en door, announcing our ~mtrance. From here on it was \~tay close and don't touch ' llll:ything.\ As for my father, of course, tllese rules did not apply. He w&uld begin by engaging in the mandatory ten-minute .talk with the owner, who was the fot11th generation of his family to operate the place. He was also the expert · on local p:olitics, history and gossip, the latter of whj.ch he could !.' CHRISTMAS MONEY ·rattl~ on with the best of the senior citizens. · After this boring yam (which was interrupted only by scornful looks from the owner every time I ventUl1ed in the direction of the Swiss Army Knives), it was off to the endless rows ·Of tools, bolts,' nuts, paint, nails, brooms, rope, .and everything else which was of no use to my G.l Joe, who was guarding the station wagon faithfully. It did not matter what we had set ()ut to buy, because inevitably Father became sidetracked with some other item. Today he needed some wooden dowels, but there was a special on paint. Twenty min11tes and ten shades later, Mummy would be happy to hear that .the kitchen had a new · color. I was promoted to paint brush carrier. Two rakes and a hammer later, we finally arrived at our destination: the sacred wood section~ It was only fitting that tbe dewel we had quested so valiantly for was out of stock, and thete was not a size close .CHRISTMAS VACATION UNITED PARCEL SERVICE EMPLOYMENT FullTime - Part Time MONDAY' Tl!RU FRIDAY TltL CHRISTMAS AL.LSHIFI'S AVAIU\BLE 'Help With Christmas Bills While Being Paid To Work Out APPLY rn PERSON: EACH MONDAY BETWEEEN 10 AM- 8 ,pM UP.S PERSONNEL OFFICR Z4 A:V.S DRIV!t, LA1'HAM, NY m 10 . (1ST LEFT OFF WADE ltD. OFF RT. 7) EOE M!F Did you ever wonder why the M&M manufacturer chose to the one inch si:ze we green, red, yellow, orange, dark desperately, needed.· \Well and light brown? Or maybe it Father seemed to say, \it'll just was light brown, dark brown, have to wait for next week's orange, yellow, red, green. trip, right sport?\ Could it be that the first Just as my childish patience M&Ms came in only two or had reached its limit, it was three colors and the rest were time to . go. The only added later? Imagine the world memorable thing that happened with only one color M&M. I in that h~adache-inspiring place bet it was the ora41ge one. Why was the entrance of Tommy two shades of brown? Why not , fantastic, terrific color and the most delicious, exciting, fun- filled candy have never \hooked up .. \ Why has tile world kept the two apart? Are we afraid the combination would cause an explosion of emotions too hot to handle? Or did the purple M&M someh&w get lost in the shuffle? Parker with his father as we ' two shades of green? Everyone walked out. I hated Tommy likes the green ~mes better Parker. anyway. Do yoa think these As Fate would have it, we six colors were specially marched passed the sacred five• · chosen or was it random and and-ten, to which I reacted with . half-hearted? I hope not. What silent protest. I then had to a disappointment. Why only make up an excuse to G.I. Joe · six colors, why not seven - who thqught he was getting colors or twenty-six or seven new BDU's and a .45 pistol. hundred and six? Every package He thought he had it bad! I · could be filled with surprises. now began to think of all the . M&M eaters would always be football my friends were discovering new shades of playing that morning, but was M&Ms. There would be no interrupted by Father with the need to eat any other candy. worst thing he could possibly And when do you think the say, \Whoops I forgot · candy shells were sealed with something!\ Sheer terror struck the white M, which always an innocent heart. seems to fade so that only a LC~oter, as I wiped the half or barely a third of the chocolate syrup from my letter can be seen? sweater, I thought again of my What I really need to know, friends. This time I smiled. what has ,been bothering me sj.nce the very flrst time I ever Be Aware- I think we should abandon all of our other obligations and find the purpte M&M. I know he is out there somewhere. I just know in my ~eart that the world would be a better place to live with tll.e purple M&M. We all must commit ourselves; yes, all of us. It is obvious that the purple M&M is my absolute favorite M&M, even though I have 11ever tasted it. Believe me, l know. It's the feeling again. Although tile other six colors will ne\Ver be as special as the purple ~ne, you all still make UP. the most incredible, ingenious can<!)' on the face of the earth, I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings,. M&Ms, I didn't mean to. So... let the M&M's live and don•t sleep until we fmd the purple ()De. ,Ge.t the Facts About AIDS By AMY BA:SOFF Consider these facts: AIDS i·s spreading throughout _ th,e general p<>pulatiop. · . . , .. · ~.:. New York State has the . highest incidence rate of AID~. - Union College is in New Yotk State. In the back of your mind are you thinking, \Maybe this could happen to me?\ Health professionals and educators are worried that not enough American students are AWARE -of the measures to p.roteet themselves in the sexually p~rmissive atmosphere of campus life. Many, if they know any facts about AIDS, seem to believe that this disease will not affect them. Thete is a combination of fear and ignorance which allows one to conclude, \It's not my problem.\ College students, at times, think they are in:vincible; they maintain the youthful attitudes . of risk- taking an.d sexual experimentation. Protection and education is in the public interesL Campuses nationwide are distributing literature, creating condom advertisements, and organizing AIDS conferences in an effort to promote AIDS AWAREness. AIDS campaigns .aim to inform the masses of the latest developments in AIDS research as well ~s to promote responsible sexual behavior. One must question, how much of this information is re~lly reaching students? How much is eliciting responsive action? How much is invoking fear? How many students stop listening when you mention. AIDS? Unfox;tunately, ttiere is : · no concrete data to indicate the possible answers to these questions. The effectiveness of educational and informational progtams is far from certain. · Let us follow the _assumption that students are in college to broaden their intellect, to expand horizons, to disc.over personal potentialities, and to prepare; in some way, for the future. Factors attributing to individual and intellectual growth consist of information, experience, and interaction. It follows then that voluntarily reading pamphlets and listening attentively to speakers will proviue you with information. Understanding how the AIDS virus enters and affects the body is not difficult to comprehe11d. Talking abut AIDS with fannily, friends and health care ec:ltlcators will give you the ·e:::l!:perience in honestly discussing the· disease and eta r ify any mi.sund~rsta,.ndings. For example,_ AIDS is not spread through everyd~y. casual contact. A:ncl, .P~rtinent to college students is interactioa. Once ·you learn how AIDS can be prevented and feel comfortable in discussing 'the disease, share. that information with others. Disc1,1ssing AIDS· and sex among frie11ds and potential partners could possibly cause anxiety and embarrassment. But, if done in .an informed, honest man11er, you'll be more relaxed and make better choices concerning safe sexual activity. Living i11 a society with AIDS can :be scary. Although you should b,e concerned, you need not be afraid. The fact is that one has more control over the disease than is realized. And, it is now, in college, with information, experience and interaction readily accessible, thtat we must learn, trust in an(J. share the facts about AIDS. Take control and increase your AIDS AW A.REne.ss now!

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 1988 - -\\\r•- .·~·\ .:.... --·· INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Britain Celebrates Guy Fawkes Day By SHARON MC EWAN England - November 5th - Bonfire Night. A night.many people look forward to - ·custom dating back to the 17 .century, celebrating the capture of Guy Fawkes, who attempted to b!ow up the King and the Houses of Parliament. Guy Fawkes, born in York, 1570, a British soldier who is the best remembered participant in the gunpowder Plot Conspiracy. He was a convert to Roman Catholicism, which with his adventurous spirit led him to leave England in 1593, a protestant country, enlisting with the Spanish army in the Netherlands. Here he gained a reputation of courage and determination. Meanwhile, in England, Robert Catesby, and his followers, were unhappy with the increasing oppression on Catholicism. They planned to blow up the Houses of Parliament, with the King, James I, and his Ministers inside. They needed a man of military skill, to help them - Fawkes was enlisted in 1604. He left the Netherlands not really knowing any details of the plot, he returned td'England and joined Catesby and his men. The plotters rented a cellar which extended under Parliament, and Fawkes buried in it at least 20 barrels of gunpowder., covered. by firewood, coals and iran bars ... to increase the explosion. A slow match was prepared, so Fawkes would have at least 15 minutes to escape. Meanwhile Lord. Man teagle had received a mysteri()US letter, which revealed the conspiracy, and he with the Earl of .Suffoolk, as Lord Chamberlain, uncovered the plot. Fawkes was arrested on November 4th, but remained defiant when Questioned_ After torture upon the rack,. he revealed the names of bis accomplices, he was tried and found guilty. Janu'!I'Y 21th, 1606, he was executed()pposite the PW\liarnent building .. November 5th, is a symbolic celebration, the day the Xing and Parliament were saved. People build huge· bo11fires, place a guy on top,. set it a light, gathering around wllilst it burns. The guy is an effigy of Fawkes, the burning iJ()nfire representing the H()uses of Parliament - showiag tile possibilities of what !;Ould have been. At the sante time fireworks are set off, whicll add to the colour and splendour, but shows the power of a :small amount of .gunpowder. Children celebrate previ()us to the day by t~g th~h' g.uys onto the streets, askin_g people for, \a penny for the guy/. In complarison, it is rath.er like trick or treating. INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS \How Long Does It Take You To Come To School From Home?'! Jason Meshnick (!H)-I live in Hickock so it tak.~s me 1 minute to get to my car and twenty minutes to fi11d a parking spot near my class -- HAH! Katie Boyd (89)- ... First, I have to skin the cows and make suitcases, then I have to hitch up the horse - down to the trading post - battling tumble weeds the whole time. Wait for the stage which takes me to the city ... Denver and the marvel of flying machines. Next to Chicago's O'Hare - more Jleo:ple than in all of Colorado ... then to the modern Mec~a .of America's Northeast. Ezra Sherman (89)-Around 8 hours if the rockets don't misfire and I splash down in the Atlantic. Brad Mondescbein (90)-18 years. Benedikt Blunschi (89)-American Airlines: Ztuich - JFK 8 hrs. 14 min. (with a lot of turbulence); American Eagle: JFK - Albany 55 min. (good weather); Taxi: Alflany .. Schenectady 1 hr. (The driver got lost); Oct, 12; 8:4..:5 a.m. Webster- Science Building 3 min. (WORLD RECORD! ll) Kevin Honickel (90)-. That depends. Sometimes I like to drive through Heather OUPS!! .. Amish country and n.ail a few moss eaters on the way. All those clothes they wecu get caught in my wheels and it slows me down. Dana Hagstrom (91)--6 minutes. Don't ask. Cabaret TONIGHT 9 PM Featuring -13ecky Thayer -The Garnet Minstrels College Center Auditorium \FROM THE TERM ABROAD TO ITALY:\ Lyric by DINA 1\tf~ GOLAS Firenze 1988 _ Our weeks in FirenZe are quickly passirtg, With. lots of adveJ1t1lres anC;l of course some ha:rassing The guys think it's great \A bottle for the girls!\ · We search for a man with the DAVID's curls-- In Germany DAVES mooned· the house Marcia firuilly returned 6:00 am., qtqet as a ·Ill()use. +he fight on·the Ponte Vecchio was the J.a,st, Being chased by Arabs. with broken bottles, doesn't that sound like a blast? The food ... AMANDA and JANEl' live for Bellln.i Pan:ini, CHIP will eat 6 plates of fettucini. AND~W knowsthe places to dine,. don't let him drink,. he won't be fine. Give EMILY more than one ceres and things get gory, JEFF and the ladies, now there's a story! REMUS ofteh l~s us astray, leave it to DINA, she always knows the way. ROMA was exciting . the hospitals twice were inviting, DAVE F. got hit by a taxi, brpke Pis toe, and is now relaxing. . ANDYM. finds the classes tou~. tougher for LOU, LOVO broke LOU's finger, now there's nothing he can do. PROFESSOR STECKLER has drawing night and day, \20 dra~ by Thursday!\ What artist can we pal? BE'!H, B . :Y and SRAGE get all the mail GER.RY and ROBIN's boxes grow st;ale. JANE and LAURA. are seldom a,part, . . silthtseeing and shopping dearest to their heart. Af>out spaghetti, BRIAN and BECKY wrote the book, · \''hrow it on the wall, see if it's cooked.\ It stuck to the wall like the young boys to ~CHELLE, · ''Va:Vip, Va Via' near the Duomo it's hell. . : CRAIG finds the best hangouts by far, JILL T. and JIIL .C. will stop at tlle nearest bar. AT the Jazz Club MELISSA gained herfame; but these days we've been keeping her tame. Italian beer is not tOQ great, · . . .. drinking gallons of vino, we seal our fate Firenze Will never be the same. We miss you'dearly, but vre're so glad we came. . Robert Collins, Director of Inter-Study · On Thursday, November t·Otb. . 'AMERICAN ·INSTITUTE for Programmes ~ FOREIGN STUDY REPRESENTATIVE, MARTHA CAVANAUGH will be here to discuss their vartous· Terms : Abroad Programs. A.l.F.S. offers programs · in the JoUowjng countries: Austria, England~ France, Ireland~ ItaJy~ Japan, Peoples Republic of China,· Spain, Switzerland, and the USSR. l will be at Union on Monday, November 7th. Students interested in non- Union programs in England, particularly in . London, may meet with him at 4 P:M .. in the Humanities Faculty Lounge. If you have questions, please contact the Terms Abroad Office. Interested students please come to the . Terms Abroad Office Humanities Building between 10:00 am and 11:00 am. German Movie \LINA BRAAKE'' (1974) Monday Nov. 7 at 7:30PM . College Center Room· 406 82-year~old Una Braake loses her apartment to a banking house and is committed to an old~age horne. Gustav Hartlein, 84, an incapacitated bankrllpt, · knows how to boost her spirits and to revivify her will to life. He derives a fiendish pleasure from playing tricks on those outside and fr()m helping Una braake to c<lrne into money by way of a well-devised bank fraud, She leaves the home and goes to Saradinia to visit old friends, the family of a former alien worker in Germany. She uses the money to buy a house for that family whien, in return for this, grants '~er a lifelong right of resident in that house. Director: Bernard Sh:ikel

CONCORDlENSlS Nov.ember 3, 1988 Page 9 ' . \\ '-This Week in: the Wo-rld By Shelley Szymko (10124 ~- :10/31) Soviet Union: The Soviet Union will· cut unprofitable businesses in Moscow in an effort to strengthen the Soviet econom:v and overcome a· $50 billion budget deficit. The Soviet finai:lce minister said the planned price changes will' not lower the standard of living •. Meanwhile, the Saviet Politburo is proposing an $804 billion government budget that is expectEJd to stress improving consumer,goods. . . Czechoslovakia: Dozens of dissidents. gathering on the 70th anniversary of Czecnoslovakia:'s prewar independence were detained by the .P.rague. police. the uprising took, place in Wenceslas Square and -was the first official Communist celebration of tl:le hdliday. Proposed talks by the dissidents were denied by the police. Wes·t . German.y: West German authorities arrested thirteen Palestinians suspected of preparing a te~rorisi attack. Complete details ot the ·alleged attack were not disclosed. However, a Dusseldorf prosecutor stated large arms ~aches were seized in the police raids, The NetherJands: NATO defense ministers opened two days of talks aimed at nuclear planning. A threatened crisis over Belgium's opposition to modernize short-range weapens was discussed. Brussels -feels :that such an action would be premature due to present-i:ast-:West relations. SQu.th Afrlc11: .South Africans voted.simultaneously for the fir,st time in natiQnwide elections for segregated municipal councils. Anglican Archbishop Tutu urged Pretoria to give l;llacks full. voting. rights in national affair:s. Right-wing whites posted gains across the country as the ruling party, Linder President Botha, main~ained control in major areas. · Palestine: ~~ least six people were killed when Israeli wc:~.rplanes · . attackec;l Palestinia.rl guerilla bases in Sidon and Beirut. A Senior PLO · commander is presunmed to be one of. the dead. this is the fourth Israeli · air strike_inside Lebanon whthin the last week. Swede'n: $¥Jeden has denied asylum to 10 Soviet defectors. on the ground that political changes in the Soviet Union make it doubtful that . they wovld- be punished ~n return to that country. Historically, Stockholm 'had once permitted refuge to Soviet defectors, recalling the danger of repri~ls. . Japanese guitarist Yamashita: to play at Union. Born i11 Nagasaki, his father was his first teacher. At the age of thirteen he won first prize. in major competitions in Spain, Italy and France. The young musician will perform an original transcription of Mussorgsky's \Pictures at An Exhibition\ along With works by Sor, Bach and Britten on Monday, November 7 at 8 p.m. In Memorial ChapQ,I. Japanese Guitarist To Play At Union College American audiences seem to love superstars. That•s what people - see in Kazuhit9 Yamashita, a 26-year-old guitarist who earlier toured with J~es Galway, and is now on his solo recital debut tour of the States. - .The tour will bring ~im to Alice T~lly Hill in New York City, a~d then on to Schenectady, where he w1ll present a second concert rn this year's Schenectady-'Mllseum-Urtion~college· eMcert SeriGS. Yamashita's concert will take place on Monday. November 7 at 8 p.m. In MemQrlaiChapel. Tickets are available at all area box offices for$10, $5 for students. · This young musician will perform an original transcription of Mussorgsky's \Pictures at an Exhibition\ along with works by Sor Bach and Britten. ' LAN·GUAGE ·TABLES ·FRENCH-Monday 12:45---1:46 SPANISH-· Tuesday 11 :45-12:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN- Wednesday 12:45-1 ;45 ITALIAN-- Thursday 11:45-12:45. = INTERNATIONAL FEATURES . . York Students Thank Co'l.lege Comf!lunity for Their Experie-nce at ·U'hion By SARA. MOORE Before leaving Union at the end of term, I want to take this opportunity to thank everybody for making my 10-week stay . so enjoyable_ . ·Starting college is in its~lf not an easy step to take and doing_ so in a foreign country is bound to cause a few problems. Initially, \culture shock\ is inevitable ahhough coming from _England it was equally strange to find so many similarities in such different shrroundings. · · I think that one of the main differences, socially encountered by a few exchange .students was. the inability to purchase alcohol. However, the concept of free beer at fraternity parties was really appreciated!! At our college in York we .have one bar which sells beer and spirits at reduced prices and where most students tend to congregate in the evenings. One of the most popular social activities at our college is the infamous \3 legged fancy dress pub crawl,\ which apart from being good fun is also a means of collecting money for charities. The Yotk residents have become accustomed to the lowered mentality of the students on these occassions but never seem totally prepared for the peculiar sight of nuns, pirates, maids, mummies and the Marx brothers bobbing around the city en route to the next pub on the list. The atmosphere on campus and around the town on these evenings is rarely matched. Like painting the idol, this pub crawl is an essential part of the 4-year degree course!! Colleges and Universities in Britain are places where individuals background is immaterial. Our tuition fees an=- paid automatically by local governments which means that evecyone should have an equaf chance to get into the college of their choice on the basis of their exam results. In addition we also receive minimal amounts of money in the form· of a grant which contributes to accomodation fees and living expenses (fondly known as \beer money.\) It is almost inevitable that we all use the phrase\ ... \but I'm always only a poor student\ at some point during our college c~eer. This may seem ironic in ·that it appears that we are in effect \being paid\ to study. The money received doesn't adequately cover expenses and even now the government is threatening to ctlt grant allowance. The Students Union is an active body within colleges· in Britain and represents the students in opposing such threats. As this is a concern of all students, rich and poor, it serves to bind the students . together, increasing the feeling of friendship and equality. This may be comparable to the original idea of brotllerhood established by fraternities and sororities although it has, perhaps, more serious undertones. The opportunities of studyding abroad should not be missed - I have now fulfilled an ambition that I've had since the age of 11, I've found that, although the dasses I am taking over here have been very interesting it is not the academic learning which has influenced me the most, but what I have experienced outside classrooms. Again I would like to thank, on behalf of a1l the York Exchange students, everybody who has made our stay so enjoyable and problem-free, especially Laura and ISU, Kevin Irland and the Orientation Committee, and Professor Thomas and Dean Al:ford. Also, I would like to thank the Women's Rugby Team for putting up with me and for showing me a good time!! Good luck next season. ANWAR SADAT PEACE LECTURE THOMAS FRIEDMAN PULITZER PRIZE WINNER AND NEW YORK TIMES REPORTER 'The Middle Eat in the Mind of America'' Mr. Friedma~ was Beirut Bureau Chie( for the NY Times. He spent 26 months covering events in Lebanon,· including the Sabra abd Chatilla massacre, the American embassy and Marine bombings, the PLO split and the Isreili withdrawl from Beirut. ~e is currently wiriting a book called From Beirut to Jerusalem. In January 198~ he will become Chief Diplomatic Correspondent for the New York Times based in Washington. Monday, November 14, 1989 Memorial Chapel8:00 p.m. A :reception will follow immediately after in Old Chapel You are invited and urged to attend a ... PANEL DISCUSSION on CROSS·CUL TURAL EXPERIENCES - ··\>···· · ·~·:· ·· · sponsored by .. Phi Beta Kappa, International Student Union, • and Terms Abroad Panelists: Professor Pilar Moyano, Professor Mark Toher, Kristen Allisdn ('90), Kevin Ireland ('89), and Amy Baboff ('89) Moderator: Laura Calvi The panelists willbriefly describe their :xperiences as faculty, advisors, and students on a term abroad. International students and others who participaed in previous ~erms . ~broa? wi~l also share expe!iences during the question-answer sess10n whtch wlll follow the presentation. JAPANESE--Monday 12:45-1:45 .. This event is organized particularly to add.ress q~estion~ and concerns· of students going to Greece, I~real, and Mextco ?unng W1nter ter~. But it also concerns anyone planntng or contemplating a term abroad 1n the future, and anyone who has just returned from abroad. An Language Tables will be·in the College Center · Upperclassmen's Dining Hall. Anyone not on the meal · plan can buy lunch downstairs in the Pub an!dbring it up or \brown-bag\ it. PLACE: Soocial Sciences 016 TIME: Thursday, November 3, 7:30pm.

. Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS Novemb~r 3, 1988. 10 %·orr To Students & FacuHy NISKAYUNA TIRE & SERVICE Expert Auto Repair - 24 Hr. Towing Hercules • Goodyear • Kelly Springfield ll 1501 Balltown Rd. Schenectady, NY 12309 374-9751 SCHOlARSHIPS AVAilABLE MAJOR Tll\ll SERATT 518-276-8024 ---- - ... ..,. .... -. ---.. .... = =--=\ = '\'= - TO BE CALLED IN CALL DR. ROTH 6300 -- ''The Holocaust: .,. Why We Remembet' Dr. Jan Karski, the Polish ·courier who alerted the outside w·orld of the Nazi death camps and · extermination p~ogram, will be the guest speaker at a .special brunch on Saturday, November 5 from 11:30 - · 12:30 in Hale House Lower Lounge. Dr. Karski is speaking as part of Kristallnacht (Night of the · ·Broken Glass), Remembrance Week,' which . 1...-----------~- · commemorates the 50th anniversary of organizaed neaKers P-lUs anti Jewish riots on November 9 and 10, 1938. All · welcome. The brunch is free, but please RSVP to · ::>fASl-llON ATHl.E'TJC CLOiHlNG oSTUDE'NT DlSCOUNTS oBACX TO SCHOOL 1-l.EADQlJARTE~S '='LOW,lOW PRICES · Religious Programs at x6087 if attending. GAMMA PHI BETA . \ ' . BALLOON LAUNCH·WINNERS ~ \10% off on any · A · (I ' merchandise to. E \f ALL Students 833 McClellan St. R 0 - B . I c WEAR JEFFREY SLIPPEN & FRED HOWES Ashfield, Mass .The card was fourid.l0/17 by the· Connecticut River on land owned by a Union College Alumni EAT PIZZA AND SAVE $$$$CASH!$$$$ WHY.PA Y HIGH PRICES FOR·OFF CAMPUS PIZZA? COMPARE THESE PRICES FOR A LG. CHEES'E: . ' •... ~ '- . . . . . . ~ Domino's~ $6.75 + $1.25,topping Papa Ciccos. $6.00 + $1.25 toppings +tax + ti:p ROCK & ROLL PIZZA AT DHR· ONLY $·s.so + t.ax Dial 370~6060 :For Speedy Service •

CONCQRDIENSIS NQ.vember 3, 1988 Page 11 THE BUSINESS SECTION An Alt~ernative In.ve,stment 8y JASON MESHNICK Commentaries Pag.e Editor Last .year, we witnessed tlle second worst stock market crash ever, putting an end to a very bullish period in the U.S, history. It is unfortunate, but many lost great s:ums .of money last October 19. Some investors have managed to beat the stock market·-- by not being in it There are hundreds of inves.tments which have absolutely nothing to do witll the .stock inarket but the most exciting of them all is classic automobile investments. Americans; whether or not we .knoW' it, love cars. The thought ·of losing one's license is enough to make most obey the restrictive; and boring, 65. MPH (55 MPH in New York ·State), speed lfinit, or at least an .easy beginning to investing incars. . , Today; Ametican musclecars are very popular, the Corvette in particular. Some affluent baby boomers, hitting-mid-life crisis, are buying the cars they could only dream of as teen- agers. The red 1963 Corvette split window coupe with fuel injecfton ana ott r.oad exhaust that flew by Joe one night twenty years ago leaving him with only a glimpse of the . taillights~\be now sees through the windshield as he rumbles through the hearts of today's . teen-ager8 in his old fantasy. The right eng·.ine an:d suspension components in a miiit condition car will provide an ex.c~Uent investment as well as a hell of a lot of fun. The most beautiful car ever produced is. the 1961-75 Jaguar XKE convertible. Through its 1962 Ferrari 250 GTO but relatively easy to find. in twelve years they are expected to be valued !it approximately twenty-fiv:e thousand dollars. Not a bad return for having some f11n. Just like stocks, anyone catr lose money on an automobile investment. A temperamental Jaguar can cost thousands of dollars to keep :r:unning. Perhap!!; the key to making money in this market is to buy the right car and entomb it for 20 years. When the car sees light again, it will have cost nothing rnore than the purchase price, but once restored, will have been an. excellent investment. This is done, but the owner faces lynching at the hands of angry car enthusiasts who know that et car is. to be used, not locked behind a cemerit wall. Once you have decidea to almost obey it. American 14~year production run, the car enter into this market, there· ?~e culture revolves around the went from a light six cylinder a few steps to follow. Fisrt of automobile. It is used both for sports cat to a heavy \V-12\ all decide on a price renage and work and fun. roadster bllrdened with ugly wh.ere the money will come Because of the automobile's u.s. mandated \safety\ from. Next, decide on a place itt life, the classic car bumpers. The six cylinder has - particular type of car: former market has seen incredible the best performance but both · racecar, European sp.ortscar, g:tow.th. Cars liave special cars are capable. of more than American muscle-car, luxury, appeal in that nobody has yet 140 mph. No other inves.tment ?ar, etc. The best. car t,o cho?se figured out how to lower the . can do that, not to mention 1s one that you will enJOY bemg top on a convertible bond and that most new cars still·can't. around and showing off, not to drive it along that special two- · Because the 12-cylinder is mention tinkering with. Third, lane country road. In the wake basically the same as the one get as . much information as of last OCtober's stock market used in the new (1975 through possible. Most bookstores are crash, investors have seen their preseJ}t) XJS Jaguar, among inadequate for this step. One of classic cars skyrockefin value. other reasons, it. is the most the best sources for books is The absolute epitome of all valuable. A car . in good \Classic Motorbooks\ (1-800- collectors' cars is the Ferrari condition will set the owner 826-6600 or see· the ad in any 250 GTO, produced in the early back more than thirty thousand American car magazine). Also,. 1960's. Only 39 were produced · dollars. Not cheap, .but this car contact l~al car c!ubs as w.eu which makes it very rare;. is beautifal to took at, as your friends for mformation. exclusivity is an important incredible to drive, 31ld should Learn as much as possible quality in inve.s·tment be valued at between seventy- ~bout the p~cular car you :-re automobile~. Tile Marque had five and one hundred thousand mterested m. Learn which incredible success on the race dollars by . the end of the options are I_D<'>st desir~ble su~h track which also adds value to century. In Great Britain, tltese as a 12-cyhn<;ler engme, wrre all Ferra.l:i GTO's. For many cars are highly sought after and wheels, convertible, etc ... years these cars were bargains. the British. are buying them When. it is time to look for In · 1983, anybody with less expensively here (than in that special car, consult either a $300,000 co~d driye away in Britain) and taking them back car broker, newspaper, or his own GTO, provided he home. Thus, the U. S. supply Hemmings Motor News ~ould find one. While this ·may is dwindling and price is being: (which can be purchased in seem. outrageous for a car, driven up quickly. , many bookstores and is consider that this .summer, one ·Most people don't have indispensiJ>Ie to any classic car was offered for $4,200;000. In thirty thousand dollars to spend enthusiast). The best time to five years the proqd oWner of a on a car, bat there ate other buy is in the fall or winter Ferrari 2SO OTO has made ways to get into this market. when, because the cars aren't $3,900,000. Few people make One of the best cars to buy driven, they can't be given that in a lifetime. che.ap1y, fot under five away. Finally, buy that special ~ The Ferrari QTO is a special thousand dollars, is an MOB car you've always wanted, case but, with the rjght car, ten Gt, the cC>upe version of the youtU never regret the pleasure to twenty thousand dollars is popular sportscar. They are rare it will pro'Vide. THIS·WEEK IN THE MARKET By ANTHONY E. VRONDISSIS Business Editor (Source: Wall Street Journal) Kraft accepted a sweetened takeover bid from Phillip Morris of $ 106 a share, or $13..1 billion. The acquisition, the second largest ever, would rpake Philip Morris the world's largest consumer products concern. Kraft, which rejected a $90-.a-share bid two weeks ago, agreed to the higher offer yesterday afternoon. Boeing's 7 57 jet could face a fonnidable rival soon if_ McDonnell Douglas proceeds with a planned mcrdium-range version of its MD-80 aircraft. RJR Nabisco managers held more talks with their financial partners, but they didn't make a rival bid to Klohlberg Kravis' $20.6 billion offer. I AT&T's C()mputer business and its Unix operating system. got a big boost Friday when it won an estimated $929 million Air Force contra<;t. Sears announced a broad restructuring that includes the buy-back of about 10% of its shares, the sale of its Sears Tower headquarters in Chicago and a major shift in its retailing strategy. But d1e moves fell short of what speculators had hoped for, and some analaysts were skeptical the retailing changes would succeed. Sears stock fell $1.857, to $42.75. Construction contracts fell 3% in September, mainly because of a drop in commercial building. It was the third consecutive monthly decline. We would like to welcome you to the new section in the Concordiensis. Through this page we will try to inform the student body about the· current events of the business world on a local as well as an international scale. Some of the features we hope to present are a weekly look at occurrences in the market. The Investment Club has also expressed a wish to let the College know of their activities on a weekly basis. From time to time we will also report on several local businesses and their relations with our college community. Furthermore we hope to have 1 Some interviews from Union College Alumni who ~ave achieved executive positions and obtain feedback from real life economic, business situations. We also hope to report on the companies that Union College is investing in. On a larger scale we will attempt to follow major -developments in the world that affect the ever so competitive and complex arena of business. We would appreciate hearing from! anyone who would be interested in writing on any business topic or even willing to gJve us some ideas or suggestions. .. EDITORS OF BUSINESS SECTION Anthony E. Vrondissis Petros D. Goneos x4217 1988 YEARBOOKS are now on sale in Mrs. Marra's office, 4th floor College Center. The cost is $25.00 payable by cash or check. Get one while supplies last. Order_your 1989 book now at a special price. The CROSSTALK HAS BEEN RESCHEDULED TO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4,1988 AT 7 PM IN THE ATRIUM· THE ISSUELESS CAMPAIGN OF 1988? HOW WILL YOU ,CHOOSE?

t . Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS No'yember 3, 1988 Fou-rr.tled at Union College 1877 --- A Prosperous Curriculum?·· I was once told I should enjoy college if only because it is the only time in my life I would be allowed to enjoy entertaining purely academic concerns. Obviously that person had never been to Union. Tuesday's faculty meeting was disappointing and disheartening .. The faculty had been called together to discuss their views on the addition of three new departments. lndeed, those few professors that opted not to leave as the hour grew late did discuss their views. Unfortanate1y, their opinions and views were, for the most part, decidedly non-academic ones. I am not so naive as to believe that a college need not consider its reputation,· its marketability, and its buidget when making decisions, however is it naive to hope that one's professors would be intetrested and concerned about the academic merit of new c-qrriculum proposals? Tne primary concern for most of the professors who spoke was financial - could the College afford the new departments? Yes, this is something that must be determined before the final decision is made, but the final decision is not made by the faculty, it is made by the Academic Affairs Committee. Why then wasn't the faculty discussing wllat is to be gained or lost academically from the addition of the new departments? The profess()rs need not worry, the administration gives quite enough consideration to its budget, marketability, and what Colgate, Hamilton, Williams etc. are doing. What it does not appear to consider enough is the Co1lege's.academic and intellectual . environment- the real environment that students are surrounded by, not the appearance of one that the College is concerned about promoting to prospective students. What, if not academia, are our professors qualified to discuss and debate? Why then, didn't they? One would hope that they would leave the doll3!-and - cents reasoning to the administration and concern themselves with the academic quality of the College. In a college so preoccupied with appearance, professors are the students' only chance to experience and enjoy the academic and inteilectual environment we are all presumably here for. If the professors' pre occupation with the College's budget and its mangement is a result of pressure felt from the administration, then the administration is doing the College's professors and students an unforgivable injustice. Besides · it could even hurt our marketability. Union On Alert Union College campus is on alert. The rash of campus vandalism, robberies, and violence has raised everyone's awareness. Proof of this is seen in the increased security patrols on campus and promotion of preventionaiy measures. Whether the incidents are committed by individuals within or outside of Union, the proximity is too close to be ignored. A ware ness is the first step towards a safer campus. But it is only one step. Understanding of how to apply one's awareness is the next step. Through application and practice, the possibility of being personally affected will he deterred. Practice of safe campus 'routines' means avoiding walking alone at night or in secluded areas. It means locking your door. It means keeping limited access areas limited to only those who should have access. However, in addition to these as well as several others unmentioned, it means taking genuine concern for the safety of others. Discourage others from ignoring safety measures. After .all, a community that affords no opportunities for harmful and destructive incidents 1s the strongest deterrent against crime. LETTERS A Lot of T'alk, But No Action. To the Editors: Since the October 6 issue of the C on~ordiensis, titles such as \I Arn ·Prejudiced, Not Racist,\ \Stadent Forum Focuses 011 Minority Students,'' and. '\The Fine Line Between Preference and -~ Racism\ have 11ppeared in the last three out of f9ut issues. Yet,. more th~n sixty empty seats stood bef<>re Tony Harris, last Tuesday evening, as he addressed the ·issue of racism. In the past few weekst the Con,cordiensls' have been filled with articles focused on solving raci!;m prol:)lems at Union College. However, only forty people (the majority being minorities) attended the workshop. Why have we as Union College members focused so much attention to the probl~m of racism, yet we've done nothing to alleviate it: It is· a tragedy that such apathy exists here. Mr. Harris strongly suggested that the only way to eradicate the problem of racism is for the \white\ majority to speak out against these prejudices (sracism, s~xism, anti-semitism, etc.} How can .su.c'h actions be taken when you. are not present to hear the voices of the oppressed? Rob Goldman '89 James Alston. '90 Rushees Challenged to Question Institutions To theFreshma.n Class: I hope tllat freshmen involved in :Rush have been following the correspondence in Concordiensis. In the October 27 issue, a young woman remernb¢rs with regret that,having Ieuned of a gang . rape at a fraternity, neither she nor the fraternity members themselves 'felt it necessary to take any acti()n. In the October 20 issue, a :yc11ng man -- who. last -spring inc.ited 'discussion about the moral character of fraternities -- repeated his challenge for furt:her discussion, nd, at the same time, declare(( an end to his own remarks on the subject. FALL TERM. PHONATHON LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT 'THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LEITERS TO THE E DITO.R MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE . SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONGORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDI~NSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Let us hope that hjs silence is not. the result of intimidation; presidents of fraternities have regularly forced him to leave parties that were ()therwise open to all students, the reas.on being that fault-finders weren't welcome. It is diffict~lt to avoid one conclusion from both letters: one may gain certain privileges by joining a fraternity or sorority, bU;t one loses a certain right-· the right to criticize that institution publicly, the right, in short, of free speech •. ''We protect rapists,\ these actions say, \and we ostracize critics~\ · Before you join ene of these groups, ask them a few questions: Am I E;ntitled to object if people make r!).cist slurs? Are there any :groups -~ Blacks, Jews, Scholars, Violinist&, O.~y Persons, Women ·- members of which I cannot invite here, or propose as next ye.-ar'.s pledges? If someone conunits· a rape here, do I have to keep quiet about it? If people plagia:tjze. or use files of ,papers they didn't write, am I obliged to condone academic dishonesty? If I speak out against something that seems to me wrong or even , Crim.inal, will you make me an outcast? Ge:t answers to such questions. Your self·rspect depends on. it. · Adrian Frazier Talk on the Phone. · .. Dinner Provided . ... Cash Prizes ... :; WhEt could be Better? ENTER YOUR TEAM TODAY! Sheets at Info Booth. Dates .November 6 &-7 Hale House Dining Room 5:30-9:3fl PM Editorswin~Cbief. · ·· ' Ot:istine Hong, Fiuna S:l:nikri News Editors ·· Slisl) Boody., Jay~ . Feature Editors Nark liiUgliton. $.~e$b•.: · . Jntemati®al P~•{M! Edl~s . Ntco14s Bach~.. · · Co~esft\g~-~ · .. · J; ..... . .. , ... ··.· AsSO<;. ·Com~ Editor · Stepbaiiel'~ Arts Bdiror . ~tie-~yd/ Associate Arts J:Wit()r . '· ... Cm~QP:~y Business EditorS Antlromy B.Vnm.ttissi8~ ~D. <:Rm~f>s · Camp\18 Page Editors . Uaa Marzmi. J..tna ~ SportS Bdiror . · .. . _ Pave M,~Qll Ass6c. Sports Editors ___ ._ .. _. Stolt~ Matk~St~ . Copy Editors ·JmtinW.: kl- '0011 Vtderio, N$tley W~lfe Pb.ctography Editor . ·'Ofeg Chr<lnOWS)d Advertisin~fBdi~s · . .tori Kaplan, lessh':a Ade~:Q. Associate Ad~g Editrut . . Jill ~b Business Manager . · · · Be.th Qo~tl~) :$obin JaoobB.mt SubseriplionsManagers Bmd MondS<;heifh l>ameht.Hiiber Hononuy Facl!lty' AdViWt C. William ~undey . · ,• . . . ·;:·· '.· . . . . I• . . • • . ST AFll'! A:tllahdtt Aronoff~ Slizabeth 1Betlin¢f~ Andy B~r. . Anthe-e Camssavmt; Li$\ Cbmm~~. . .. Cole. · c. Epstein. Jed 'Fetdim.uu.lt•Caf[;ltFrle4rl. Jt •• Kevin Greg Goetz. !ottic'e Hay~ V~ Br6oke flobetmmt, BfutAb'eth Josephson, Becky Koopman. Brett Mi®fsky. John MOI'gan,. Tom Sartini. Dimut\E: Sci®ehetti. Anmew Seewattl~ -Bzra Sherman, Nina Smilari, Tim Wymes. . . .PHOTOGRAPHERS: ~er Ahily~Janice Altieri, Leslie Ross, Todd C<lcorlkas, Chris' Williams, Atny Diltenback. ADVERTISING. STAliFt Becky llarg7 Jen Chadap, Lamie Davidson, Helene ~es. N:inn Srnilmi. CONCORDIENSIS is pablisbed every Thursday by the student body of Unien Q(}l1ege. Schenectady •.. New YOrk 12308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Pub:lieatkms., Inc .• Box 388; Sidney, New York 1383~-- (607) 563~8339. Subscnption rate: $30 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Ca&c:ol'diensts subscribes to the \ - Toth I ' oppo week Vale1 letter in it l ad. I resp< letter were Zacc givet ford a go was I lashi Ur fel'lo will letteJ wha Cant] De that He1 Duk prise who rapi: hav~ abOI ] ] j -

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 1988 Founded at Union College 1877---- A Prosperous Curriculum? I was once told I should enjoy college if only because it is the only time in my life I would be allowed to enjoy entertaining purely academic concerns. Obviously that person had never been to Union. Tuesday's faculty meeting was disappointing aRd disheartening. The faculty had been cal1ed together to discuss their views on the addition of three new departments. Indeed, those few professors that opted not to leave as the hour grew late did discuss their views. Unfortunately, their opinions and views were, for the most part, decidedly non-academic ones. I am not so naive as to believe that a college need not consider its reputation, its marketability, and its buidget when making decisions, however is it naive to hope that one's professors would be intetrested and conceTned about the academic merit of new curriculum proposals? Tne primary concern for most of the professors who spoke was financial - could the College afford the new departments? Yes, this is something that must be determined before the final decision is made, but the finaJ decision is not made by the faculty, it is made by the Academic Affairs Committee. Why then wasn't the faculty discussing what is to be gained or lost academically from the addition of the new departments? The professors need not worry, the administration gives quite enough consideration to its budget, marketability, and what Colgate, Hamilton, Williams etc. are doing. What it does not appear to consider enough is the College's academic and intellectual environment- the real environment that students are surrounded by, not the appearance of one that the College is concerned about promoting to prospective students. What, if not academia, are our professors qualified to discuss and debate? Why then, didn't they? One would hope that they would leave the dollar-and - cents reasoning to the administration and concern themselves with the academic quality of the College. In a college so preoccupied with appearance, professors are the students' only chance to experience and enjoy the academic and intellect1.Jal environment we are all presumably here for. If the professors' pre occupation with the College's budget and its mangement is a result of pressure felt from the administration, then the administration is doing the College's professors and students an unforgivable injustice. Besides - it could even hurt our marketability. Union On Alert Union College campus is on alert. The rash of campus vandalism, robberies, and violence has raised everyone's awareness. Proof of this is seen in the increased security patrols on campus and promotion of preventionary measures. Whether the incidents are committed by individuals within or outside of Union, the proximity is too close to be ignored. Awareness is the first step towards a safer campus. But it is only one step. Understanding of how to apply one's awareness is the next step. Through application and practice, the possibility of being personally affected will be deterred. Practice of safe campus 'routines' means avoiding walking alone at night or in secluded areas. It means locking your door. It means keeping limited access areas limited to only those who should have access. However, in addition to these as well as several others unmentioned, it means taking genuine concern for the safety of others. Discourage others from ignoring safety measures. After all, a community that affords no opportunities for harmful and destructive incidents is the strongest deterrent against crime. LETTERS A Lot of Talk, But No Action To the Editors: Since the October 6 issue of the Concordiensis, titles such as \I Am Ptrejudiced, Not Racist,\ \Student Forum Focuses On Minority Students,\ and \The Fine Line Between Preference and Racism\ have appeared in the last three out of four issues. Yet, more than sixty empty seats stood before ToBy Harris, last Tuesday evening, as he addressed the issue of racism. In the past few weeks, the Cenc()rdiensis' have been filled with articles focused on solving racism problems at Union College. However, only forty people (the majority being ,minorities) attended the workshop. Why have we as Union College members focused so mucll. attention to the problem of racism, yet we've done nothing to alleviate it. It is a tragedy that such apathy exists here. Mr. Harris strongly suggested that the only way to eradicate t.lle problem of racism is for the \white\ majority to speak out against these prejudices (sracism, sexism, anti-semitism, etc.) How can such acaons be taken when you are 11ot .present to hear the voices of the oppressed? Rob Gold.rnan '89 James Alston '90 Rushees Challenged to Question Institutions To the Freshman Class: I hope that freshmen involved in Rush have been following the correspondence in Concordiensis. In the October 27 issue, a young woman remembers with regret that,having learned of a gang rape at a fraternity, neither she nor the fraternity members themselves felt it necessary to take any action. In the October 20 issue, a young man -- who last spring incited discussion about the moral character of fraternities -- repeated his challenge for further discussion, and, at the same time, declared an end to his own remarks on the subject. FALL TERM PHONATHON LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Let us hope that his silence is not tlle :result of intimidation; presidents of fraternities have regularly forced him to leave parties that were otherwise open to all students, the reason being that fault-finders weren't welcome. It is difficult to avoid one c:onclusion from both letters: one may gain certain privileges by joining a fratemity or sorority, but one loses a certain right -- the right to c1iHicize that institution publicly, the right, in short, of free speech. \We protect rapists,\ these actions say, \and we ostracize critics.\ Before you join one of these grollp s, ask them a few questions: Am I entitled to object if people make racist slurs? Are there any groups -~ Blacks, Jews, Scholars, Violinists, Gay Persons, Women --members of which I cannot invite here, or propose as next year's pledges? If someone C()rn.mits a rape here, do I have to keep quiet about it? If people plagiarize or use files of pat>ers they didn't write, am I obliged to condone academic d.ishonesty? If I speak out against something that seems to me wrong or even criminal, wm you make me an outcast'? Get answers to such questions. Your self-rspect depends Oil it Adrian Frazier Talk on the Phone ... Dinner Provided ... Cash Prizes . . . . What could be Better? ENTER YOUR TEAM TODAY! Sheets at Info Booth. Dates November 6 & 7 Hale House Dining Room 5:3().9:30 PM Ediwrs-in-Chief Chrlstirte Hoog. Fiona Sbukri News Editors Elise Foody, Jay Freeland Feature Editors Mark Hatlgilton, Suzanne Shaker International Features Editors Nic<>tas Eoch; Anne Simon Commentaries Page Editor Jason Meshnick Assoc. Commentaries Editor Stephanie Jaryna _ Arts Editor Katie Boyd Associate Arts Ediror , Cameron Kenny Business Editors Anthony E.Vrondissls., Petros D. Goneos · Campus Page Editors Lisa Marzilli. Lina Leung Spin'tS Editor _ Dave Morrison Asscc. Sports Editors Scott Adams~ Mark Zimmerman Co}Jy Editors Kevin W. Irfund~ Don Valerio. Nancy Wolfe Pllotography Edit.or Greg Chronowslti Adllertising'I1ditors - ~Lori Ka}ltan, Jessica Adelson, ASS()Ciate Advertising Editor Jill Deutsch llusiaess Manager Beth Oool&mith, Robin Jacobson Suhscriptions Managers Brad Mondlscltein, Pamela Haber H()nomry Faculty Advisor C. William Huntley STAFF: Amanda Aronoff, Elizabeth Be~liner, Andy Braver. A.nthee Ca:rassavas, Lisa Cherande, Steve Cole, Alison C. ]tJStein~ Jed Ferdinand, Carl R.Frledrlcii Jr., Kevin. Gardner, <heg Goetz, Bruce Hay, V. Brooke H()berman. Elizabeth Jo~phson. Becky Koopman, Brett Malcfsky, 1 ohn Morgan, T<>rn Sartini. Diana E. Scioccbetti, Alldrew Seewald, Ezra Sllerman, Nina Smilari, Tim Wyrnes. _P\HOTOGRAPHERS: Heather Alniy, Janice Altieri. Leslie Ross~ Todd Cocorikas, Chris Winiams. Amy Dillenback. A.DVERTISING. STAFF: Becky ltarg. Jen Charlap, Laurie Davidson, Helene Devries, Nina Srrrilarl. C ONCORDIENSIS is published e\Yery Thursday by the student body of Union College. Scb:e:nectady. New ¥ ork 1230:8; Publications Office; Susquelumt~a Publications~ tnc.~ Jlt:l:x. 388, Sidney; New York 13S:3t3 (607) 563-8339. Sllb&<:ription rate: $30 per year. deliveted M.ywbere in the United States. Concordiensis !Jnbscribes to the - To1 I opp weE Val lettc in il ad. res] lettc we1 Zac giv1 for a g wal las I l fe11 wil lett wh car. I tha He Du pri wh rai ha' abc

\ CONCORDfENSIS N.oJ!ember 3 1 19-88 Page ll LETTERS Bush/Dukakis Battle Conti_nues Dukakis Defended To the Editor: I would like to take tMs opportunity to address last weeks letter written by Don Valerio. ft seems clear that his letter has about as many facts in it as a Bush/Qua:lecarnpaign ad. Don claims his letter is a response to Mt~ Zaccheo'.s letter of three weeks ago~ If be were , truly addressi;n:g Mr. Zaccbeo's letter he would have given us some reason to vote fot the Republican ticket but as a good Republican he felt it was best to cloud the issues by lashing out at Dukakis. Unlike my good friend and fellow Dukalds fan Donald, I will address the points of his letter rather than continue with what he cans linegative campaigning.\ Don would have us believe that Dukakis is soft on crime. He tells us in his letter that Duk-akis \opposes mandatory prison sentencing.'' But for who? For murderers? For rapists? Or for women -who have \illegal\ {under Bush) abortions? ·Or -for the doctors wbopenorm them? 1 guess. my collegue hasn't given this a thought. Don also makes sure he mentions that the Dukakis furlotlgh program has allowed murderers and drug kingpins to roam free·, unlike .Bush who would rather g-ive them a country to run. What Don deesn't ·mention is that while Ro!lald \Gipper'' Reagan was · the (}ovemor of California he sponsored a work release program as well as a fudougn program much l·ike the one in Massachusetts. · This .prog.ram als<l had its proMems .. One occmed when a crinrinal, who was on a 72 hour furlough. m11tdered a Los Angeles poHceman. Another was when a woman in Orange County was murdered by a couple of criminals who were also on a 72-hour furlough. Donnie also negLects tQ mention that once upon a time in Texas, George Bush helped to found a chain of halfway houses for ex-co~ who were out before they wer~ eligible .for parole because of overcrowded prisons. In one instance a member of one of these halfway houses, which Bush felt were doing a neat job, became frie11dly with a minister and ultimately killed his wife. Oh well, nobody (including -Bash .and the Gip) is perfect. Which brings me to Dukakis' stand on the death penalty. I have just shown that even the great :R<>n makes mistakes and Bush (Iran- Contra, Quayle} has also made ntistakes as well as Dukakis. If these people who have staff members to help them out can make· the wrong decision how can we expect :those who actuany show 'lip for jury dury to m1tke the right decisions each and every time, And as a famous philosopher once said ''Better I 100- 1 guilty men go free than -one innooent man put to death.\ · 1 To the Edi IDt: I would like to take this : opportunity to respond to Don Vale rio's letter to the editor in last week's Concordiensis. Mr. Valeri<J criticized me for \negative campaigning,\ and then proceeded to unleash a pitifully mindless display of . demagoguery which would make George Bush's negative . . campaign stntegists proud. Mr. Val~rio opened his • · attack upon Michael Dukakis by heaping blame on the :!governor fer giving furloughs . to criminals in Massachusetts. · ·It seems th.at Mr. Valerio · fe>r-got to mention a few relevant facts; 1) Dukakis I i11herited the Massachusetts ·. f'Qrlough .program from his 1 Republica~~ ::predece~s?r. 2); The Reagan-S.usll. admmtsttatton's · federal fu:rle>ugh program was responsible for the release of 30 .percent of federal drug offenders last year. 3) George B11sh's Houst()n halfway house I hope this shows Don Valerio the proJler way to address a letter and gets ~ple t. to vote for Dakakis. But if Bush is elected then maybe we can hope .he will be every bit the President that Nixon and Ford were. 1 :project en<led in disaster when · one of its r~sidents raped and Sincerely, 1 -murdered a minister's wife. Andrew Reiken '89 Consider.in.g these facts, it -::''\'\!IIi~~------- ..... --...,. . seems hyp()Critical for Valerio and his Repllblican camarades When you party remember to . . .. Don't get wrecked. If you're not b I f .so er- or-you re not sure - let someone else do the driving. A message provided by this newspaper arid Beer Driflkers of America. t<> attack Michael Dukakis as soft on crime. Mr. Valerio also implied that Governor Dllkalds has \a keen Lack of u11derstanding of how blldgets wmk.\ Gee, Don:, if a freshman J)iology major such .as yourself is such an expert on budgeuey matters; perhaps you ~oald have considered a run at the Vice-Presidency. Goodness · knows, you\re probably at least . as qualified as the man your · · party nominated for that office. Judging by the Reagan-Bush administrati()n's propensity to P..------------1 accumulate debt, it would seem - . that it is the Repablicans who are utte.dy unable to manage a federal budget. Valerio claims that Boston Harbor is \the most poHuted body of water in America.\ What he f()r~ot to tell us is that Michael Dukakis was the first Governor to mount significant efforts to clean the Harbor. The reason his efforts failed was tllat the Reagan- Bush administration has consistelltly cut federal funding for envircnmental cleanup during the last eight years. Mr. Valerio claims that a Dukakis administration would bring abcut the \spontaneous combu:sti()n\ of our nation's finance. government, and economy. I s11bmit that our nation's fi~ance has already combasted once under the present administration (Does October 19, 1987 ring a bell~ Don?)~ tile integrity of its government has already been eroded by th.e Reagan-Busll administration's ethically casual attitude, and its economy has been irreparably dam\gaed by Reagan-Bush's outrageous budget deficit By electing Dukakis, we have nowhere togo but up! Finally, Valerio fires a typical Republican cheapshot by saying that Dukakis would be as good a Presidt:nt \as Tyler or J <>hnson.\ I see; and perhaps Bush will live up to that grand old Republican tradition perpetuated by one Richard M. Nixon! We can do better than this, Union. On Novem~er 8, send _a message that you care about our nation's future -- Vote for Mike Dukakis! Sincerely~ Phil Zaccheo ·- .. ·UNION COLLEGE CONCERT- COMMIT'rEE .. ;· .::- / LOUD.L¥-·-PRESENTS C.LIF.'F ~:; . . . . ·. '·, . :• . . . . . . . .··· . AT PROCTOR'S THEATRE NOVEMBER 7--~ 1988 AT 8:00 PM 'l;icket$:r $8· with Union ID* ·$1°~.5()' to. ttie .. general public Tickets avail$-bler.at C~rnegie Box· Office*, CBO Carl' . Con:lpany and Proctors Theatre ··.~Discount only at. Carnegie Box Office B:E THERE, MON!· ···~

CONCOll.DIENSlS Nollember 3, 1988 Page 13 LETTERS Bush/Dukakis Battle Continues Dukakis Defended To the Editor: I would like to take this opportunity to address last weeks letter written by Don Valerio. It seems clear that his letter has about as many facts in it as a Bush!Quale campaign ad. Don claims his letter is a response to Mr. Zaccheo's letter of three weeks ago. If he were truly addressing Mr. Zaccheo's letter he would have given us some reason to vote for the Republican ticket but as a good Republican he felt it was best to cloud the issues by lashing out at Dukatcis. Unlike my good friend and fellow Dukakis fan Donald, I will address the points of his letter rather than continue with what he calls \negative campaigning.\ Don would have us believe that Dukakis is soft on crime. He tells us in his letter that Dukakis \opposes mandatory prison sentencing.\' But for who? For murderers? For rapists? Or for women who have \illegal\ (under Bush) abortions? Or for the doctors wh<l Jelifartn them? I guess my colle:gue bam't given this a th()ug!It. Don also makes sure he ne11tions that the Dukakis furlo11gll program has allowed murierers and drug kingpins to roan :free, unlike Bush who would rather give them a counJry to ran. What Don doesl1,'t mention is that while Ronard \Gi _pper\ Reagan was the Governor of California he spoll!sored a work release p~::o.g:a:a.:m. as well as a furlough pFogriLlll much like the one in Massa;chasetts. This program als(D lud its problems. One occmrred when a criminal, who was ~n a 72 hour fudough, mtudeFecl a Los Angeles polic:e:-naa. Another was when a ~ornan in Orange County was nu1xlered by a couple of crirutuls who were also on a 72-llollr flll\lough. Donnie also neglects to mention that once upom a time in Texas, George Busllltelped to found a chain of ha.Ifway h<Juses for ex-cons who. ~eteoat before they were eligible f()r paJJole because of oveFCl'~wded prisons. In one install.ce .a member of one of When you party remember to . . . Don't get wrecked. If yoll're not sober - or you're not sure - let someone else do the dlivrng. A message provided by this newspaper and Beer Drinkers of America. these halfway houses, which B11sb felt were doing a neat job, became friendly with a minister and ultimately killed his wife. Oh well, nobody (inch ding Bush and the Gip) is pelifect. Which brings me to Dutakis' stand on the death pe11alty. I have just shown that even the great Ron makes mistakes and Bush (Iran- Contra, Quayle) has also made mistakes as well as Dukakis. If thes~ people who have staff members to help them out can make· the wrong decision how can we expect those who actaally show up for jury dury to rn~e the right decisions eacl1. and every time. And as a farn()us philosopher once said \B eliter 1 100 1 guilty men go free than one innocent man put to death.\ I hope this shows Don Valerio the proper way to ad<lress a letter and gets people to vote for Dukakis. But if Busl! is elected then maybe we can hope he will be every bit the President that Nixon and Ford were. Sincerely, Andrew Reiken '89 ' To the Editor: I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Don Valerio's letter to the editor in last week's Concordiensis. Mr. Valerio criticized me for \negative campaigning,\ and then proceeded to unleash a pitifully mindless display of demagoguery which would make George Bush's negative campaign strategists proud. Mr. Valerio opened his attack upon Michael Dukakis by heaping blame on the • 1 g ovemor for giving furloughs to criminals in Massachusetts. It seems that Mr. Valerio forgot to mention a few relevant facts: 1) Dukakis · 1 inherited the Massachusetts furlough program from his , Republican predecessor. 2) The . Reagan-Bush administration's I federal furlough program was responsible for the release of 30 percent of federal drug offenders last year. 3) George Bush's Houston halfway house project ended in disaster when one of its residents raped and murdered a minister's wife. Considering these facts, it seems hypocritical for Valerio and his Republican camarades to attack Michael Dukakis as , soft on crime. Mr. Valerio also implied that Governor Dukakis has \a keen lack of understanding of how budgets work.\ Gee, Don, if a freshman biology major such as yourself is such an expert on budgetary matters, perhaps you should have considered a run at the Vice-Presidency. Goodness knows, you're probably at least as qualified as the man your party nominated for that office. Judging by the Reagan-Bush administration's propensity to accumulate debt, it would seem that it is the Republicans who are utterly unable to manage a federal budget Valerio claims that :Boston Harbor is \the most p()lluted body of water in America.\ What he forgot to tell us is that Michael Dukakis was the first Governor to mount significant efforts to clean the Harbor. The reason his efforts failed was that the Reagan- Bush administration has consistently cut federal funding for environmental cleanup during the last eight years. Mr. Valerio claims that a Dukakis administration would bring about the \spontaneous com1mstion\ of our nation's finance, governme11t. and economy. I submit that our nation's finance has already combusted once under the present administration (Does October 19, 1987 ring a bell, Don?), the integrity of its government has already been eroded by the Reagan-Bush administration's ethically casual attitude, and its economy has been irreparably damagaed by Reagan-Bush's outrageous budget deficit. By electing Dukakis, we have nowhere to go but up! Finally, Valerio fires a typical Republican cheapshot by saying that Dukakis would be as good a Presidtm \as Tyler or Johnson.\ I see; and perhaps Bush will live up to that grand old Republican tradition perpetuated by one Richard M. Nixon! We can do better than this, Union. On Novem~er 8, send a message that you ctue about our nation's future -- Vote for Mike Dukakis! Sincerely, Phil Zaccheo UNION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITTEE LOUDLY PRESENTS CLIFF AT PROCTOR'S THEATRE NOVEMBER 7, 1988 AT 8:00 PM Tickets:~ $8 with Union ID* $12.50 to the general public Tickets availabte~at Carnegie Box Office*, , CBO Carl' Company and Proctors 'rheatre *Dis.co.unt only at Carnegie Box Office BE THER·E, MON! ·

\ Page 14 CONCORDIBNSIS November 3, 1988 ~~;_·~-.~----A_R_T_S_& __ E_N~T_E_R_T_A_I~N-;M_E_.N_T~.··------~--- ·\Crossing· Delancey\ By CAMERON KENNY Assoc. Arts Editors \Crossing Delanc~y'' is a warm and appealing romantic comedy starring Amy Irving and Peter Riesert. Irving is 'Izzy', a Jewish granddaughter wbo is torn between her \uptown\ life as a prominent lecture~se:r.ies organizer~ and the \downtown\ world of her grandmother in the J e\_Vish Lower East Side. Peter Riesert is a pickle seller who becomes involved with Izzy through tbe services of the local marriage broker. Largely through the strength O·f its characterizations, \Crossing Delancey\ is a well-performed, w$11-written and charming film. One of the film's most engaging characters is \Bubby\, Irving's grandmother. Although she is perhaps stereotyped to excess, she is convinc,ing and unquestionably amusing. Bubby's ce- conspirator, the marriage broker~ is equally unforgettable: eovered with pounds of eye shadow beneath badly tinted blonde hair, she unceasingly harasses aU available bachelors· in the hope of making a match; ih. which case, she can send. business to her uncle the tailor, her father the florist and. her a1,1nt the ,baker, etc. The efforts of these two women to tie Irving and · the pickle salesman together constitute the major action in the film,. and their complete lack of tact or Sll'htlety is usually hilarious. Another interesting character is the handsome no¥elist, Anton Maas, whom Irving has a crush on. He is basically a self-centered' and childish intellectual, and Irving's realization of this~ combined with her growing· admiration for the 'lowly' pickle-man,. forms the central message of the film. Irving m11:st reali+e , that her infatuation. with wine and cheese fh:eside parties attended by self-proclaimed literary giants· (whose conversation in-evitably descends into not so subtle eg() contests) is perhaps not what Hfe is really all about. Sh~ learns· to respect, rather than SC()tn~ the lesson. taught by the non-intellectual ethnics of her grandmother's world: that ·a h11sband who loves you, and a hllm~ you cart be happy in, are t.nily the 'good things~ in life. - · Aside from the strength of its characters·, \Crossing Delancey\ has other engaging aspects. Its glimpses into Manhattan, for example:, are interesting. particularly in the grandmother's area, Also, most of the. scenes are fairly amusing, such as one where her grandmother and other elderly ·women take a self- defense class and practice· parading around the room in an attempt to look Hke 'non- victims'.' On the whole, although ''Crossing Delancey\ ·is by no means a sensational blockbuster, it is a nice, sincere, and thoughtful film, and definitely worth taking a l<Jok at. B-p1us .. Tough Hollywood Trivia ' By CAME-RON & ~ATIE 5. Where is Evil Knievel. today? A. Dead. B. Dead ... 1 . How many pounds has Oprah lost? A. 150. C. Dead. B. 250. c. 10,000. 6. Where is Elvis. today? D. Not Enough. · 2. Was Shirley Macla:ine ever a peasant in a A Alive, but chained in the basement of a crazed fan named Delilah. B. Alive, but doesn't know it. ·previous life? · C. Alive, buHs actually Rupert Murdoch. A. No, never. B. Yes, but a significant one C. Couldn't care less. 7. Who was most bappy when the whales escaped? · .. A. The Whales. 3. Are Sean and Madonna still married? Idol_ Chat B. Dan Quayle. C. The free2ir1g .reporters. A. Yes. B. No. The Godd-ess of the Stage C. Don't understand the question. D. The Eskimos who caught and ate them the minute the cameras were turne<toff. by Adam Hoffman The vision returns . 8. Why does Rol>ln want to divorce the 4. How many of Elizabeth Taylor's. husbands. Champ? are still living? A. He can't d~nce. A.IO B. He's too d·if·ficult to shop for. A free spirit of the night gliding on ice so thin she is dazzling Slowly and softly she appn>aches like· an angel descending B. Only those who weighed less than she did. C. The tra!'lstator got too expensive. D. He was affecting her performance on \Head ofthe CJass\. C. Don't know who she is. Powerfully and unbindingly she unleases her unique :inner being She is all glory exploding in passionate rage She is all one could hope for honest, true. beautiful, real DOYOUOWNA CAMERA? CAN YOU -DEVELOP FILM? 'But now she fades into darlmess only to be replaced by the light of mind The light which keeps her in infinite perfection Concordiensis Needs Ph()tographers! WEDNESDAY \DIAL M FOR MURDER\ With Grace Kelly & Ray Milland: 7,9, 11 CALL GREG X4025 Union Review of Books November Selection Stephen· Hawking A Brief History of Time Wednesday. Nov~ 9, 1988 College Centet:, 1:00 sharp Mobil Lounge, 4th floor \Even as he sits helpless in his whe~lchdir. his mind seems to soar euer more . brilliantly across the vastness Of space and time to utllock the secrets of ·the tmwerse.\ Time· lliaga%ine . (Book Jacket) · ''When the achievements oj the phystc(sts of the twentieth century come tO .be co115ldered objectively, the work of Stephen Hawking will be mru large ln·the annals of scleJ:tce.'' ·. Astrlmomy Now on sal¢ b. the Camplil S~oreo for $9.1SO E. When he hits her, it hurts. Chosen by the New York Film Critics As Best Filniof1987 Broadcast News Fri., Sat.,· Sun. 7,9,11 $1.;00 EDUCATIONAL SIUDIIS PROGRAM STUDENt. INFORM:ATIOtf MEEnNGS lUESDAY, ·NO'VEMBER S'rH ,. Meetings at 11 :oo am , 12:00' noon, 1~00 pm and 3:00 pm · In Colhrge Center Room 203 - . . THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10TH Meetings a:t 3:00 pm and 7:00 pm In Colleg~e Center Room 409 Union College students who are consitferlrlg careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in Enellsh, modem or clwsic l!lllguages, mathematics, science (biology, chemistl)l, earth sCience, pr,yslcs <Jr general science) or social studies should attend. lnfOrrna~on Will be glwmreg:ardlng the undel'{jraduate, graduate, and five-year combihed. <Iegree progt'ams. ' .

Pa~e 14 CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 1988 ~~~~· _______ A_R_T_S_&_·_E_N_T_E_R_T_A_IN_M_·_E_N_T __________ _ To l:ncrease· •Vf>u:r F~elmgs of EU!:cacy ..... . · Wtle Elo:youthiv~ tneSanta, ·P.k·· . . . Idol Chat The Goddess of the Stage by Adam Hoffman The vision returns A free spirit of the night gliding on ice so thin she is dazzilng Slowly and softly she approaches like an angel descending Powerfully and unbindingly she unleases her unique inner being She is all gl(lry exploding in passionate rage She is all one could hope for honest, true, beautiful, real ·But now she fades into darkness only to be replaced by the light of mind The light which keeps her in infinite perfection WEDNESDAY With Grrace Kelly 8 Ray Milland ' \Crossing Delancey\ By CAMERON KENNY Assoc. Arts Editors \Crossing Delancey\ is a warm and appealing romantic comedy starring Amy Irving and Peter Riesert. Irving is 'lzzy', a }tewish granddaughter who is torn between her \uptown\ life as a prominent lecture-series organizer, and the \downtown\ world of her grandmother in the Jewish Lower East Side. Peter Riesert is a pickle seller who becomes involved with Izzy through the services of the local marriage broker. Largely through the strength of its characterizations, \Crossing Delancey\ is a well-performed, well-written and charming film. One of the film's most engaging characters is \Bueby\, Irving's grandmother. Although she is perhaps stereotyped to excess, she is convinciRg and unquestionably amusing. Bubby's co- conspirator, the marriage broker, is equally unforgettable: covered with pounds of eye shadow beneath badly tinted blonde hair, she unceasingly harasses all available bachel~rs in the hope of making a match; in which case, she can send. business to her uncle the tailor, her father the florist and her aunt the baker, etc. The efforts of these two women to tie Irving and · the pickle salesman together constitute the major action in the film, and their complete lack of tact or subtlety is usually hilarious_ Another interesting character is the handsome novelist, Anton Maas, wh<>rn Lrving has a crush on. He is basically a self-ce11tered and childish intellectual, and Irving's realization of this, combined with her growing admiration for the 'lowly' pickle-man, forms the central message of the film. Irving must realize that her infatuation with wine and cheese fireside parties attended by self-proclaimed literary giants (whose conversation inevitably descends !a to not so subtle ego contests) is perhaps not what life is Iieally all about. Sl:ie learns to respect, rather than scorn, the lesson taught by the non-intellectual ethnics of l1er grandmother's world: that a husband who loves you, and a home you can be happy in, are truly the 'good things' in life_ Aside from the strength cf its characters, \Crossing Delancey\ has other engagi11g aspects. Its glimpses in to Manhattan, for example, are interesting, particularly in tlle grandmother's area. Also, most of the scenes are fairly amusing, such as One wheYe her grandmother and otl1er elderly women take a self- defense class and practice parading around the room in an attempt to look like 'non- victims'. On the whole, although \Crossing Delancey\ is @y no means a sensational blockbuster, it is a nice, sincere, and thoughtful film, and definitely worth taking a look at. B-plus. Tough Hollywood Trivia By CAMERON & KATIE 1. How many pounds has Oprah lost? A. 150. B. 250. C. 10,000. D. Not Enough. 2. Was Shirley Maclaine ever a peasant in a previous life? A. No, never. B. Yes, but a significant one C. Couldn't care less. 3. Are Sean and Madonna still married? A. Yes. B. No. C. Don't understand the question. 4. How many of Elizabeth Taylor's husbands are still living? A. 10 B. Only those who weighed less than she did. C. Don't know who she is. 5. Where is Evil Knievel today? A. Dead. B. Dead. C. Dead. 6. Where is Elvis today? A Alive, but ch~ined in the basement of a crazed fan named Delilah. B. Alive, but doesn't know it. C. Alive, but is actually Rupert Murdoch. 7. Who was most happy when the whales escaped? A The Whales. B. Dan Quayle. C. The freezing reporters. D. The Eskimos who caught and ate them tile minute the cameras were turne<toff. 8. Why does Robin want to divorce the Champ? A. He can't dance. B. He's too difficult to shop for. C. The translator got too expensive. D. He was affecting her performance on \Head of the Class\. E. When he hits her, it hurts. DOYOUOWNA CAMERA? CAN YOU DEVELOP Chosen by the New York Film Critics As Best Film of1987 FILM? Concordiensis Needs Photographers! CALL GREG X4025 Broadcast News Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9,11 \'DIAL M FOR MURDER\ 7,9,11 Union Review of Books November Sele<:tion $1.00 Stephen Hawking A Brief History of Time VVednesday,Nov.9, 1988 College Center, 1:00 sharp Mobil Lounge, 4th floor \Even as he sits helpless in hts wheelchair, his mind seems to soar ever more brilliantly across the vast11.ess of space and time to unlock the secrets of the uniVerse.'' Time Magazine (Book Jacket) \When the achievements of tlie physicists of the twentieth century come to be considered ol:yectively, the tvork oj Stephen Hawking will be wrU large in·the annals of scienCe.\ · Astronomy Now on t~!1le: in the: Campus Store for $9.50 EDUCATIONAL STUDIES PROGRAM STUDENT INFORMATION MEETINGS TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8TH Meetings at 11:00 am, 12:00 noon, 1:00pm and 3:00pm In College Center Room 203 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10TH Meetings at 3:00 pm and 7:00 pm Jn College Center Room 4()9 Union College students who are considering careers in secondary school teaching for grades 7-12 in English, modern or classic languages, mathematics, science (biology, chemistry, earth science, physics or general science) or social studle~. should attend .. lnbrmalion will be given regarding the IJndergraduate, graduate, and five·year combined d&gree programs. 1: ,, I, ,, t: •• - p. e n (

CONCORDfENSIS Novtmller 3, 1988 Page 15 --~----~···~-R_T_s_·~-E~N-·T_E_R_fA~:~_~N_M_E_N_T~--~~~J!f Progressive Anger Horbscopes by ny KATIE BOYD Arts Editor nAn The power of Anger has }}IOpelled our country to greater expectations, freedoms, and responsibilities. Anger was responsible for sU:ch monumental historic events as the American Revobttion, the :Civil War, and Civil Rights Movement. And it .will lie through the harnessing of the .rmger of oppression (by both oppressors and oppressed) which. will finally work t:Qward the eradication of racism in America. Tony Harris, the workshop directQr of American Pictures, made his audience angry. SCORPIO: Thia coming week your libido will be at full force, but unfortuflate.ly recent trends point to inability to .fulfill this need .. Keep yourself busy with academics and your mind on other things than the opposite sex. SAGITTARIUS: Someone you may hav~ been admiring for awhile but was: just about to give up on may make a suddern turn around this week. Take a cteep breath and confront the situation, CAP~ICORN: Beware of wolves in sheep's clothing! -- Especially at fraternity parties ... Someone you are becoming Close with may not be exactly who they claim. AQUARIUS: Your underlying romantic nature is trying to fight it's way 10 the surface. This week explore all options and investigate brand new possibilities. PISCES: The end of the term is approaching and it's time to catch up on work and begin grinding. The reward will be gr.eat and your pay of.f much more interesting than just getting good grades! · The workshop ran on two pr.emises. Everyone h~d- to follow Tony Harris' rules except Tony Harris. And, no personal. experiences were ·· allowed, Both of these requirements frustrated the audience and allowed Harris .---Tony Harris ARIES: Despite, 1he over-dramatic nature of Aries, this wee1< it is imperative for you to be emotionally stable, for someone may need you to lean on. A mysterious stranger may enter your life. (; om.pl e te control. Generalizations were the truth atd specifics merely illusions. Harris' stated the foundation of American racism simply: \All whites and blacks hate each other.\ The audience protested, claiming Harris' assertion (being ,so _ _inclusive) was absurd. But the support to back up these defenses . all fell outside of Harris' rules: No yersonal experiences of blacks and whites getting along, or of inter-racialloving relationships could be discussed. ln the general forum the audience was forced to accept the truth' of Harris' statement The situation of blacks in 1988 Atherica is deplorable. ·It· is the worst it bas been sin1:e slavery, The latest edition of \Time\ ma:gazine stated that violent racial incidents have increased by 400 percent sinct'r 1980. White people are the problem and the problem is white racism. Harris stated .everyone is prejudiced as everyone will gravitate towards people with similar backgrounds. However, white people (especially white males) have power, power which encompasses . education, bousjng, justice; and jobs. And it is this combination of 'natl.li\at• prejudice with extreme power which creates racism. Presented With a .portrait of white !Ilales being \racist sexist, homophobic, and anti- semetic,\ the white nrinority of the audience squirmed. From denial to guilt this four~hour­ oppressed ·group battled with the accusations of promoting and benefitting from racism. Question.ing personal assumptions . of liberal understandi,ng, .this group could fina.Uy · understand the tremendous burden placed on anyone when he or she first has to take on the identity l()f llis or her 'people' rather tli;an the personality of self. The power of the presentation was due to d1e adamant au(;tience inv()lvement, the personal stories which escaped Harris' strict.ool:es; and the ang~r of Tony- Hartis himself. Ultimately the point of the workshop WitS ll()t to make people feel guilt3'. And, recognizing that there iS. a plagu.e of racism wbl~h is scourging our country and threatening our very Sllcvival is just the start, As the a11dience discovered, there is 11 primary motivating emotion ~hich cries against the suffering of fellow men and which l£emmds reform. That emotion is ~nger. Anger when ~sed constructiYely call end oppression. It did f<>r the United States white t>qJulation of the 1780s. Will it f<>r the blacks of the 1980s? TAURUS: ·If the college social scene and ~small campus have you feeling restricted, this week is the perfect time to branch out and meet new people. Consider visiting friends at other schools or just taking a weekend off ·campus. G(:;I\.UNI: Passion is brewing in the ne<Ir future and your sexuality is peaking. Go for someonE with whom you could have a great deal of fun minus ex:treme emotional attachment. · CANCER: As long as you are unselfish this we.ek,· your . wi:;heS. ~itl be Qr~nted. Your sexual desire will be only rmsgurdmg, concentrate on renewing important friendships, and achieving academic and extra-curricular goals. l.EO: The path is clear for romantic beginnings this week. Past romantic involvements no longer hold you back. Pisces and Aries may play key roles: VIRGO; This we.ek a foolish bet can cause monetary loss a11d/or personal humili?tion. Efforts to retain a long distance relationship will prove profitable. Mambo-X Built Some J;Sridges LIBRA: Your creativity can be used to great profit this week_ Be extra .careful about your health and consider . indulging yourself with various frivolities. By MARYMARGARET KENlRY Students found the shiny blue tiles of the Carnegie Atrium \great tiD dance on\ Halloween night at the event sponsored by· the Social and Concert Committees. Roughly 300 people welcomed Mambo- X's return to Union Monday- night, and excused the Atrium's well~lit and impersonalquality. Soon after the two 'acoustic' openers, the crowd 'was c<>mpelled to twist and contort to the Mambos' original music. The Albany based band locates its -music in the vein of such folk~rock groups as 10,000 Maniacs. The appeal of the music relies on the textured, layered quality of their \happy guitars\ {Co-founder Seth Kaufman and Dennis :Blaine);, and on their interaction with a rhythmically complex, ;fast and forcefu:l drumbeat. DI'Ul111llet Dave Pollack btoke seven drumsticks on Monday night; the vitality of his work was evidenced by, the .enthusiastic crowd. Lead vocalist Erin O'Hara shaped and complemented the interaction of rhythm and harmonics. Had the sound quality been better, . MARK YOUR CALENDAR BECAUSE ••• TIIE UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM PRESENTS: 2 NIGHTS OF COMEDY! November 1Oth and November 14th Stay Tuned For More Information her sarcastic and bitimg lyrics ===· ·······e··~·c····R··· 0 ·····s·. ··.s·. ··G····A .. ·;r·F.·.·~ 8 ··. ···········.=.· .. might · have been better appreciated. ln certai11 songs, • • · however, her wor([ J)ta:Y and i C JNE MA i insight was dis~in;g11isbable. • .. I e 1}' e Im partial to the liJte: \'They : ~>tg 1:40 4:2() 7:15 9:50 : say that life is a s.tag;e but • : y~u.'re more· like a11 Elvis Gorillas in the Mist 12:20 3:25 6:45 9:45 : • movie--everyone's ll:el\D\ in the • : song \Har.d to S\'allow.\ A Fish. Called Wanda 1:30 4:25 7:45 10:25 : R~ently added voc:alist Robin : Gelman did_ a nice j()b of TheAccused 1:10 4:10 7;30 10:15 : strengthening Erin's lea.:d. : In Mambo music, sections i · A:IienNation 2:15 4:50 8;00 10::30 : of opposing tempci md. melody : : within a song play a11d relate; : Bat21 1:55 4:40 7:25 10:05 : this movement was e11joyed by i : the audience. Their music is : ~nchline 1:35 3:35 6:40 9:40 : · driven and define<IIJUt never • .: weighted. A rich teKtllre makes i Crossing Delanc~y 12:55 3:30 6:30 9:00 : • it substanti•al. Tlte songs • : · • \Apartment Complex;\ :, F'eds 2:10 4:30 7:10 9:30 : \Window Pains,\ 11 Mambo : : Sun,\ \liard To Sw~llow,\ and : Running on EmJ)ty 12:25 3:10 10:10 ! \Building.Bridges. anciBombing · : : Them\ were particulillty special : Halloween IV 1:45 4:2(} 6:55 9:20 : • and dear to the hearts of : : WRUC gro.upies. Also : DieHard 12:15 3:15 6:10 9;10 : performed were s~me songs •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••: from the forthcolllill~ ~econd crowd \\ould haveloved more Committees and administrative album. It is interestillg to note encores. cooperation is appreciated. in that many among ,the crowd Judging from reactions of that regard, and it is hoped that were unfamiliar witb Mambo- stuclent:s Monday llight, Union this ••1uidge\ won't be X, yet reacted entllll.siastically is starved for events of this \bomb-ed\ and that more to ·what they heard. (As one type and caliber. 'The efforts of twistecl contortions to \ha}Jpy thrasher put it, \C()()J This the Social and Concert guitars\' are to follow. •'

• CONCORDIENSIS NoJ!ember 3, 1988 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT :m Progressive Anger Horoscopes by \A\ By KAT:J:E BOYD Arts Editor The power of Anger has propelled ou.r country to greater expectations, freedoms, and responsi~iHties. Anger was responsible for such monumental historic events as the American Revolution, the Civil War, and Civil Rights Movement. And it will be through the harnessing of the anger of oppression (by both oppressors and oppressed) which will finally work toward the eradication of racism in America. Tony Harris, the workshop director of American Pictures, made his a11dience angry. SCORPIO: This coming week your libido will be at full force, but unfortunate·ly recent trends point to inability to fwlf:ill this need. Keep yourself busy with academics and your mind on other things than the opposi.te sex. SAGITTARIUS: Someone you may have been admiring for awhile but was just about to give up on may make a sudden turn around this week. Take a deep breath and confront the situation. CAPRICORN: Beware of wolves in sheep's clothing! -- Especially at fraternity parties... Someone you are becoming close with may not be exactly who they claim. AQUARIUS: Your underlying romantic nature is trying to fight it's way to the surface. This week explore all options and investigate brand new possibilities. PISCES: The end of the term is approaching and it's time to catch up on work and begin grinding. The reward will be great and your pay off much more interesting than jUJst getting good grades! The workshop ran on two premises. Everyone had to follow Tony Harris' rules except Tony Harris. And, no personal experiences were allowed. Both of these requirements frustrated the audience and allowed Harris complete control. Generalizations were the truth and specifics merely illusions. Harris stated the foundation of American racism simply: \All whites and blacks hate each other.\ Tony Harris ARIES: Despite the over-dramatic nature of Aries, this week it is imperative for you to be emotionally stable, for so.rneone may need you to lean on. A mysterious stranger may enter your life. The audience protested, claiming Harris' assertion (being so inclusive) was absurd. But the support to back up these defenses all fell outside <lf Harris' rules. No personal experiences of blacks and whites getting along, or of inter-racial loving relationships could be discussed. In the general forum the audience was forced to accept the truth of Harris' statement The situation of blacks in 1988 America is deplorable. It is the worst it has been since slavery. The latest edition of \Time\ magazine stated that violent racial incidents have increased by 400 percent since 1980. White people are the problem and the problem is white racism. Harris stated everyone is prejudiced as everyone will gravitate towards people with similar backgrounds. H<lwever, white people (especially white males) have power, power which encompasses education, housing, justice, and jobs. And it is this combination of 'natural' prejudice with extreme power which creates racism. Presented with a portrait of white males being \racist sexist, homophobic, and anti- semetic,\ the white minority of the audience squirmed. From denial to guilt this f<lur-hour- oppressed group battled with the accusations of promoting and benefitting from racism. Questioning personal assumptions of liberal understanding, this group could finally understand the tremendous burden placed on anyone when he or she first has to take on the identity of his or her 'people' rather than the personality of self. The power of the presentation was due to the adamant audience involvement, the personal stories which escaped Harris' strict rules, and the anger of Tony Harris himself. Ultimately the point of the workshop was not to make people feel guilty. And, recognizing that there is a plague of racism which is scourging our country and threatening our very survival is just the start. As the audience discovered, there is a primary motivating emotion which cries against the suffering of fellow men and which demands reform. That emotion is anger. Anger when used constructively can end oppression. It did for the United States white population of the 1780s. Will it for the blacks of the 1980s? TAURUS: If the college social scene and small campus t:lave you feeling restricted, this week is the perfect time to branch out and meet new people. Consider visiting friends at other schools or just taking a weekend off campus. GEMINI: Passion is brewing in the near future and your sexuality is peaking. G<l for someone with whom you could have a great deal of fun minus extreme emotional attachment. CANCER: As long as you are unselfish this week, your wishes will be granted. Your sexual desire will be only misguiding, concentrate on renewing important friendships, and achieving academic and extra-curricular goals. LEO: The path is clear for romantic beginnings this week. Past romantic involvements no longer hold you back. Pisces and Aries may play key roles. VIRGO: This week a foolish bet can cause monetary loss and/or personal humiliation. Efforts to retain a long distance relationship will prove profitable. Ma~nbo-X Built Soine Bridges LIBRA: Your creativity can be used to great profit this woek. Be extra careful about your health and consider indulging yourself with various frivolities. By MARYMARGARET KENIRY Students found the shiny blue tiles of the Carnegie Atrium \great to dance on\ Halloween night at the event sponsored by the Social and Concert Committees. Roughly 300 people welcomed Marnbo- X's ret11rn to Union Monday night, and excused the Atrium's well-lit and impersonal quality. Soon after the two 'acoustic' openers, the crowd was compelled to twist and contort to the Mambos' original music. The Albany based band locates its music in the vein of such f()lkerock groups as 10,000 Maniacs. The appeal of the music relies on the textured, layered quality of their \happy guitars\ (co-founder Seth Kaufman and Dennis Blaine), and on their interaction with a rhythmically complex, fast and forceful drumbeat. Drummer Dave Pollack broke seven drumsticks on Monday night; the vitality of his work was evidenced by. the enthusiastic crowd. Lead vocalist Erin O'Hara shaped and complemented the interaction of rhythm and harmonics. Had the smmd quality been better, MARK YOUR CALENDAR BECAUSE ••• THE UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM PRESENTS: 2 NIGHTS OF COMEDY! November lOth and November 14th Stay Tuned For More Information her sarcastic and biting lyrics might have been better appreciated. In certain songs, however, her word play and insight was distinguishable. I'm partial to the line: \They ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • CROSSGATES • • • • • CINEMA Big 1:40 4:20 7:15 9:50 say that life is a stage but • you're more like an Elvis : • Gorillas in the Mist 12:20 3:25 6:45 9:45 movie--everyone's hero\ in the : A Fish Called Wanda song \Har.d to Swallow.\ : 1:30 4:25 7:45 10:25 Recently added vocalist Robin : • Gelman did a nice job of : strengthening Erin's lead. : The Accused 1:10 4:10 7:30 10:15 In Mambo music, sections Alien Nation 2:15 4:50 8:00 10::30 : of opposing tempo and melody : : within a song play and relate; : Bat 21 1:55 4:40 7:25 10:05 : this movement was enjoyed by : : the audience. Their music is : Punchline 1:35 3:35 6:40 9:40 : • driven and defined but never : • • weighted. A rich texture makes : Crossing Delancey 12:55 3:30 6:30 9:00 : it substantial. The songs : : \Apartment Complex,\ : Peds 2:10 4:30 7:10 9:30 : \Window Pains,\ \Mambo : : • Sun,\ \Hard To Swallow,\ and : Running on Empty 12:25 3:10 10:10 : \Building Bridges and Bombing · : : Them\ were particularly special : Halloween IV 1:45 4:20 6:55 9:20 : • and dear to the hearts of : : WRUC groupies. Also : DieHard 12:15 3:15 6:10 9:10 : . .. performed were some songs •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• from the forthcoming second crowd would have loved more Committees and administratlve album. It is interesting to note encores. cooperation is appreciated in that many among the crowd Judging from reactions of that regard, and it is hoped that were unfamiliar with Mambo- students Monday night, Union this \bridge\ won't be X, yet reacted enthusiastically is starved for events of this \bombed\ and that more to what they heard. (As one type and caliber. The efforts of twisted contortions to \happy thrasher put it, \Cool.\) This the Social and Concert guitars\ are to follow.

,. Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 1988 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Scruffy· Coughs Up a Fur Ball Scruffy\'the Cat Moons of Jupiter Black Cocoon By JOHN MILLER The Black Cocoon is a collage of scenes to be presented by the Department of the_ Arts at 8 p.m. on NovemberS through 12 at the Nott Memorial Theatre. The theme of the Black Co coon is captured in this excerpt from Edward Parone's introduction of his book, Collision Course, ( 1968). \The real danger of painting a paradise is that it. mus~ b~ preserved at any pnce. F1x It in plastic, pour liquid ceramic over it, color it for television, wrap it in Saran, order it to grow, put it in your yard, build a fence around it, roof it over, contain it in a bomb shelter, A & E BRIEFS Bogies. Albany • 4(;3-3720. Sunday, 9:30. Music by .. The Stomplistics\ and \picture this,\ Sponsored by the Rok Against Reaganomx. Admission is $3 or $5. Proctor's, Schenectady .. 346-6204. Tonight, 8:00. \4 Girls 4.\ . Schene~tady Light Opera Co., Schenectady • 346- 6204. Fri-Sun, 8:{)(). \L'i1 Abner.\ Albany Institute of History & Art, Albany,· Sunday, 1:30- 4:30. \Historic Sights Tour\: ATour of Historic Sites important to the history of Afro- Americans. Union College, Mem()rial Chapel. Sat. \The Octavo chamber Singers\: singing music by local composer Thomas E Savoy. Union College, Arts Building, Room 215. Fri., 7~00. \Duo Piano Recital\: Michelle Lin and Carol Ann Kowalchyk will perform works by Back, Pachelbel, Milhaud,. & Rachmaninoff. Union College, College Center Auditorium Fri-Sun, 7, 9, 11. \Broadcast News.\ Wed, 7, 9, 11. \Dia:l M For Murder.\· By JOHN S. MORGAN ScrUffy the Cat released their first vlnyl two years ago, The six song EP High Octane Revival was recognized as instantaneously combustible upon first listen. However, the band's most recent effort, Moons of Jupiter,. should contain a stringent warning: \This record induces drowsiness more readily than e-Xitra strength cough syrup.\ Since Octane Revival, Scruffy released their first full album, Tiny Days, and another EP - Boom Boom Boom Bingo. Neither of these portrayed the sense of confusion that dooms Moons of Jupiter. . · Scruffy the Cat formed in Bost<;m 1n 1981 during the crenelate the towers, defend it with guns,\ \People wrap themselves up into cocoons to protect themselves,\ explains Barry Smith, director of the play.. \Tbe cocoons are often self imposed, and many times people get trapped in them,\ Cocoons are normally meant to be safe, but the idea of 'the. black cocoon is that'it becomes a hard .shell people need to break out of in order to live and experience the quality of life. The butterflies that are meant to emetge never do, and tbe· safe cocoons, ·themselves, become like black . holes, Dan Griffin Productions . present An Evening With STANL.EY J:O~RDAN at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Second and State · , Street, troy, NY · Wed~ay,·NOvember g·at 8:00 P~M. · Reserved •at ticket• on -'6 at l.llll · \locations ofStlliWberries, The fbic Ffllll Bolf0ffk:e(518)27~ 0038; The·I'UIIc Shack, Albany alld Troy, NY garage rock explosion, Despite the timing of the . band's formation, Scruffy could not be neatly labeled as a garage band - their hooks were ·magical and th.ey played their instruments well. The band also hinted at an ability to shift rock 'n roll genres with considerable ease. This last attribute contributes to the disfavor with which Moon of Jupiter is ab. out to be tteated with. The . . . alb urn was recorded in Memphis, produced by Jim Dickinson and sounds like standard fare from a mediocre rock a billy band. This record possesses a singular quality; it makes Th,e Del Fuegos' St~nd Up seem like a focused. effort ·by ·means of comparison, Scruffy the Cat taking 011 the Memphis sound is as likely as sucking everything in, withholding it~ without letting anything out, People become encapsulated and isolated, The scenes, performed by Michelle Maratto, Jessica Adelson, Johanna Campbell, Craig· Summers and Ed Vassallo are highly charged, dramatic, ,comic, and tragic episodes of human life. The original ideas for the scenes ste.ril from P.arone's Collision Course. F:r.om there, other sources were llStld, including origin-al contributions by the .actor&;-to · make .make a more corlteinp<>rm'y ar>Dra1acn to the Ntle Rogers ,producing a So11thside Johnny album .. well, that happened too. \Bus Named Desire\ is the only .song that merits mention. A mighty paltry batting average spread over thirteen at bats. The record jacket is :really nice, and the press kit that Relativity Records sent me is vezy extensive. How can a band whose true colors are so accurately and gloriously displ~yed on :B.ingo, which was recorded live at Boston hot spot T. T. The Bear's, put out such a muddled album? lt is quite easy to do when over production -is ,tolerated, Jim Dickinson is 'hardly the \legendary producer\ that Scruffy's press kit bills him as. · probleins people face today. Within the play is· the moving story of Archie Harrison, a man who ·fiad contracted AIDS in 198.6, and in recent month~ has passed away, but not \'ll'ithout discovering that we can choose the quiility of life we live~ . The Black C()coon is~sure to deliver a message that i~·Of profound interest to us a,ll. Treat yourself. See Black Cocoon! · Tickets may be purchased at the Noit Memorial Theatre: $3~'0() for 'facw1ty, staff ·am;l students; $5,()0 for general .admission. WRUC 89.~7 FM PRESENTS THE FEELlES GIVEAWAYS! :tOOK FOR . RECORDS AND POSTERS. ON 8PM -10PM AND10-12PM SHOWS! NEXT WEEK S'ElJ{JOfl\S .. There ·will be a photographer for . Senior_ Portraits on N ov:einber lOth and 11th., fourth floor • College C.enter. Retakes are also availableat.this time with a $3.00 ,. ' ·sitting charge. Sign up to get a · sitting in Mrs. Marra's Office, CC404. ~ ~e Garnet / '

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 1988 ·~-------A_R_T_S __ &_E_N_T_E_R_T_A_I_N_M_·E_• N __ T __ ~------- Scruffy· Coughs Up a Fur Ball Scruffy\the Cat Moons of Jupiter Black Cocoon By JOHN MILLER The Black Cocoon is a collage of scenes to be presented by the Department of the_ Arts at 8 p.m. on November 8 through 12 at the Nott Memorial Theatre. The theme of the Black Cocoon is captured in this excerpt from Edward Parone's introduction of his book, Collision Course, (1968). \The real danger of painting a paradise is that it must be preserved at any price. Fix it in plastic, pour liquid ceramic over it, color it for television, wrap it in Saran, order it to grow, put it in your yard, build a fence around it, roof it over, contain it in a bomb shelter, A & E BRIEFS Bogies. Albany • 463-3720. Sunday, 9:30. Music by \The Stomplistics\ and \picture this.\ Sponsored by the Rok Against Reaganomx. Admission is $3 or $5. Proctor's, Schenectady · 346-6204. Tonight, 8:00. \4 Girls 4.\ Schenectady Light Opera Co., Schenectady • 346- 62 04. Fri-Sun, 8:{10. ''L'il Abner.\ Albany Institute of History & Art, Albany, Sunday, 1:30-4:30. \Historic Sights Tour\: A Tour of Historic Sites important to the history of Afro-Americans. Union College, Memorial Chapel. Sat. \The Octavo chamber Singers\: singing music by local composer Thomas F. Savoy. Union College, Arts Building, Room 215. Fri., 7:00. \Duo Piano Recital\: Michelle Lin and Carol Ann Kowalchyk will perform works by Back, Pachelbel, Milhaud, & Rachmaninoff. Union College, College Center Auditorium Fri-Sun, 7, 9, 11. \Broadcast News.\ Wed, 7, 9. 11. \Dial M For Murder.\ By JOHN S. MORGAN Scruffy the Cat released their fkst v1nyl two years ago. The six song EP High Octane ·Revival was recognized as instantaneously combustible upon first listen. However, the band's most recent effort, Moons of Jupi~ter, should contain a stringent warning: \This record induces drowsiness more readily than extra strength cough syrup.\ Since Octane Revival, Scruffy released their first full album, Tiny Days, and another EP - Boom Boom Boom Bingo. Neither of these portrayed the sense of confusion that dooms Moons of Jupi·ter. Scruffy tile Cat formed in Boston in 1981 during the crenelate the towers, defend it with guns.\ \People wrap themselves up into cocoons to protect themselves,\ explains Barry Smith, director of the play. \The cocoons are often self imposed, and many times people get trapped in them.\ Cocoons are normally meant to be safe, but the idea of the black cocoon is that it becomes a hard shell people need to break out of in order to live and experience the quality of life. The butterflies that are meant to emerge never do, and the safe cocoons, themselves, become like black holes, Dan Griffin Productions present Al1 Evening Wilh STANLEY J·ORDAN at the Troy Savings Bank Music tlall Second and State S1reet, Troy, NY Wednesday, November 9 at 8:00P.M. Rese~od seat tickets on sale at all locations of Strawberries, The Pv\lslc Hall Box Office (518) 273- 0038; The M.l$1c Shack, Albany and Troy, NY garage rock explosion. Despite the timing of the band's formation, Scruffy could nol be neatly labeled as a garage band - their hooks were magical and they played their instruments well. The band also hinted at an ability to shift rock 'n roll genres with considerable ease. This last attribute contributes to the disfavor with which Moon of Jupiter is about to be treated with. The album was recorded in Memphis, produced by Jim Dickinson and sounds like standard fare from a mediocre rock a billy band. This record possesses a singular quality; it makes The Del Fuegos' Stand Up seem tike a focused effort by means of comparison. Scruffy the Cat taking on the Memphis sound is as likely as sucking everything tn, withholding it, without letting anything out. People become encapsulated and isolated. The scenes, performed by Michelle Maratto, Jessica Adelson, Johanna Campbell, Craig Summers and Ed VassaUo are highly charged, dramatic, .comic, and tragic episodes of human life. The original ideas for the scenes stem from Farone's Collision Course. From there, other sources were used, including original contributions by the actors, to make make a more contemporary approach to the NHe Rogers producing a Southside Johnny album - well, that happened too. \Bus Named DesiJ:e\ is the only song that rneri ts mention. A mighty paHry batting average spread over thirteen at bats. The record jacket is really nice, and the pFess kit that Relativity Records sent me is very extensive. How can a band whose true colors are so accurately and gloriously displayea on Bingo, which was recorded live at Boston hot spot T.T. The Bear's, put out such a muddled album? It is quite easy to do when over production is tolerated. Jim Dickinson is hardly the \legendary producer\ that Scruffy's press kit bills him as. problems people face today. Within the play is the moving story of Archie Harrison, a man who had contracted AIDS in 1986, and in recent months has passed away, but not without discovering that we can choose the quality of life we live. The Black Cocoon is sure to deliver a message that is of profound interest to us all. Treat yourself. See Black Cocoon! Tickets may be purchased at the N oit Memorial Theatre: $3.00 for faculty, staff ·and students; $5.00 for general admission. WRUC 89.7 FM PRESENTS THE FEELIES GIVEAWAYS! LOOK FOR RECORDS AND POSTERS ON 8PM -10 PM AND10-12PM SHOWS! NEXT WEEK S'£9\[JO~ There will be a photographer for Senior Portraits on November 1Oth and 11th., fourth floor College Center. Retakes are also available at this time with a $3.00 sitting charge. Sign up to get a sitting in Mrs. Marra's Office, CC404. The Garnet 6

_ CONCORDIENSIS No'Vem'ber 3, 191f8 Page 17 . 1·. DEPARTMENT OF THE ARTS . NOV. 8~1-2, . 8:00 . NOTT. MEMORIAL / ' · FOR. RESERVATIONS ~ BOX OFFICE-NOTT ,_

CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 1988 DEPARTMENT OF THE ARTS NOV. 8-12, 8:00 NOTT MEMORIAL FOR RESERVATIONS - BOX OFFICE-NOTT Page 17

. Page 18 I . ' ' CONCORDIENSIS November 3, 1988. ''I wasn't rubbing . . I. d ttm-··Justwante .·· Eddie to knoW the score of - last m ·gh·t· · '· ··am··· ·e •• ··· ... • ... · sg· ,/) \ .. ·' ~ :.-- ' • t. ~I ' 1 ,' ' ; : . '• ' ' '' • '• Go ahead and gro~t. You can • tub it in all the w~ to Chicago : with AT&T Lorig Dist41\<.:e Service. Besides, yourbt!stfriendEddie- · .1,- was the one who said your team . ·· ': · ' could never win three' straight. · -: : A . · · .SogiVehimacalL Itcostsa · lot less than you think to lei hi~· ... know who's headed for the ~tamffs.' . . . . j .:, Reach out and .touch someone~· :. . '· · · · · ·. • • If 1 < ~ • If youtllike to know more about . , . . . •. · · AT&T products and services, like ·. ·· · · Internatlonal atlHng q.nd the At&:T · · : rc-· ~Ca£9, ~all us~~.l ?O,? ~~~·Q3QO. ~- \i ;· • j. ~l ': I' . ' ~ ~ ' . ... , ' -~ : ··! '. .• ~·! . .'. ATs.T 1 . . . . The. rig'ht choice. Iii - ( • = ( l t j

CONCQRDIENSIS November 3, 1988 Page 19 CAMPUS. NEWS =~~==~·:· Woody! CLVBNEWS PERSONALS. Campus.' Protestant MiRistry Sure are an early riser, aren't . ··- ......... -- ...... --~-- . ? . • ya. FALL TERM PHONATHON • Rris~ Morning prayer con tin- Seemjpor Yeeaarl 1C ues in the 4t1I floor lounge of I ! the College Center weekdays , · ~----~~~~~-- from 8:15-,8:35 AM. ' Sign-ups for the O~fam : fast will take place Wed., 1112 . <J.:arnmaPhi Beta, and Thurs. 11!3. in the College · :WOk out Gamma's we return Center .and in West. You c.an : i11January. · mak~ a.difference. .. Sisters in Italy and France. Bible study .gteup meets . ...,....._.-~-__,._.~-~----... on Thursday from 11:30-12:45 · in CC205; Ltinch is provided for those on the meal plan. All welcome. Delta Gamma Sisters, ·· We Love You! Your New Pledges. The grief support group meets Thursday at 4 PM in CC404:S. · Chi~ken Cordon Bleu and Interfaith dinner in the · Cream Sauce Chefs .. Kosher Kitchen on Friday. 'binnet was superb! Guess we • 11/3, at 6 PM, will be ·• · ove you one. We'll let you followed 'by a forum on · lcnow when we've mastered the abortion. Jewish., Roman microwave, okay? Catholic, and Protestant··----;----~-­ theological views will be · • presented. Please RSVP to · . Keith, x6618 if you want to come for ' · 'Th.anks. dinner. You may come.simply ' for the forum at 7. . Saturday, 11/5, there · Tolin, will be a .workshop on solid GOod Luck Today! (And Keep waste at Union Piesby.terian Smiling!) Chute~ (1()68 Park Ave.) from Kathy. 9:30~12:30. Will Burbank and •. P.S~ Iflyou do really well, I Julie Wotth of Cornell pr()rnise to hit you on the nose University's Reo-Justice . witharolledupnewspaper! . Project will be facilitators. Also oil Sat., 11/5, Dr. . Jan Karski will be speaking on , · Katie, \The Holocaust: Why We ' ·Congratulations on Marine Remember\ from 11:30-12:30 · term Abroad! B11t I'm going to in Hale Ho11se .Lower Lounge. · miss )'Pu! . . . . · - Dr. _Karski was th'e Polish . courier who alerted the outside · world of the Nazi death camps Love ya! Kathy. and extermination program. 'To The Brothers of Sigma Chi, His talk is part of a week-long · 'Thanks for helping us· welcome commemoration of flurnewpledgest Kristallnacht, the night of the • · · Delta Delta Delta. broken glass. A free brunch · will be provided. If interested, please RSVP to Religious l.aura Ike, Programs at x6087. · · · You're the beans and we'll Sunday worship will be · never forget everything you did at 6 PM . in the '4th floor · for us! We-love you ... lounge of the College Center. · Delta Love, your Sisters. It will indude Communion.··-------------- .Rev. Nevin is preaching. A videotape oil Vietnam, , Lina & Lindsay~ \Nighf Comes•', will be shown . I still have welts on my wrist! continuously in the first floor · Pelt1ikeacaged animal. of theCollege Center on woo:, · Yoorfriend m·Bondage! 11/9~ between 11 AM and 1 PM. The proceeds from the · Oxfam fast will go to Vietnam and Kampucflea, so come leam . aboutpost-war Vietnam. Lori and Linds - Maafryann - Maryann - • LoveLiBa. fill, Thurs, 11/16· OXFAM ·FAS'ft :If you ·have .fasted~ come and join us for the \break-fast\ from 10 PM until · midnight on Thurs. in the RathskelLar. SQup will be . provided, Pkase bring bw,ui. (If you would like to help make soup, please call Laurel at x6618). . I guess you will (kiddmg). CLA.SSIFIEDS We type anything. Get more '· Davidson Civil War -Pie Throwing, Voneyball, tug-o- war, spaghetti eating contest. Sat. 2:00 - 4:00, Joan Jett, \Very Scary- Was it really you? · Love, Lina. studying done while we do the · , To the Brothers of DPhi - typing. Call 382-3809·. · Thanks for an amazing party - Part-time Employment: 1. flandyman or person · Love Sisters of SDT. handy wftools. . To My Toys: 2. Fill ill desk clerk. J. had a great tinw \playing\ Apply at Schenectady .. with you·on Halloween. Racquet Club, 2699 Curry Rd., Guess Who? Schenectady. Mrs. Stevens. M.S. How abQut a movie this weekend? Call me. It will be plenty of fun! You'll see, I promise! Talk on .the Phone .. . Dinner Proyided .. . D. · Cash Prizes .. . I SIU'S .PRESIDENT. A FISH What Could Be Better? • CALLBD CHUCK! Susan~ Enter your team today! How psyched am I to have you here!!!' Get Ready for an · awesome pledge period! Sheets at Info. Booth · In the Bonds, Shirl ·DATES: ·CCAB~ NOVEMBER 6 & 7 Missed you l:.tfrrlbly on 'ween! When are you getting a phone that works? Or were you out when I called? (Hmmmm!) Kisses, HALL HOUSE DINING ROOM 5:30- 9:30 PM SMC. INTERNSHIPS & FELLOWSHIPS * r he Hartford Courant has editorial internships for summer, 1989. Washington, DC and special minority internships ar:e ·- ·also available. Application Deadline: December 31, 1988 * T_he :Smithsonian Institution of Washington, DC is awarding several fellowships in many different fields. Application Deadline: January 15, 1989 ... The Food & Allied Service/Trades Department is se~king students for their internship .program focusing on labor and its organization, tegis1ationi health and safety. * . Makovsky & Company, lnc. is offering internships in public relations, especially, investor relations, technical firms and health care niche marketing. College juniors and seniors are encouraged to apply. • • • WVKZ, 96.7 FM of downtown Schenectady is offering an internship in market research and ana~ysis. Winant-Ciayton Volunteers, Inc. is seeking. student volunteers to work in· Great 'Britain. An excellent opportunity to see Great Britain. Application Deadline: January. 3~, 19:89 The National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders is looking for interns wno witl work with patients and their famities. · The internship would also involve working on public relations and awarenes-s. The 1989-90 California State Senate Fellowship provides an opportunity for college graduates to work with Senators on many public policy issues for 11 months beg.inning October, 1989. Application Deadline: February 20, 1989 Rensselaer Scholar Fellowships at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute are available in several technical fields of study. • * For more information on these and other internships and fellowships, stop by the Career Development Center on the third floor of Old Chapel. . . i

Page 20 CONCORDIENSJS Nove.mber 3, 1988 CAMPUS NEWS. - . . . PERSONALS -To Gamma Phi Beta Founding Sisters: Love, Y <>ur friends in West • Besides you could never change . · Cheer leading clinic for all tliose interested in Basketball Cheerleading. Meet Monday 11/7 at 4:30 in the lobby of Alumni Gym. It's been awesome, we have a great chapter to continue what we started! To the future of Gamma Phi Beta! 313. for anyone. Congratulations. What happened when the guy put his condom on backwards? He went ... Love, Lovo. Everyone ... how good? ... so good! Not missing you·all that much. Just kidding. Love Robin and Mel. Amanda, I'm going t:O miss you· this weekend! Be good! I'll see you Sunday. Love Mamie. P.S. Get psyched for Founder's Day! Marie, Have a great weekend! We'll get together Monday so you can give me all the pledge gossip! Wish I could be fiere to party with you. Love, Ann. Emily, I am so psyched you're my temp. little sister! Get ready for an awesome pledge period ... I'll be there with you 'till the end! Love, Maria. Lori, Law school\ Very possible now! We are so proud of you. Love Lina & Jill. Denny. We're looking for one for you too! Love, Kill & Twerp. KENDOO- STAYAWAY! Love, KAPFROG. Little Lina, Don't worry- at least 5 minutes is some distance. J- Love Your actoss the hall buddies. Thanks for a great 2 years. - • Hopefully there'll be more. Love, T. I I Christina, Keep smiling, Babe! We're always here for you! Christos .. ' Fact: I may be the greatest but you're the cutest Kathy c. Have you completed your vast · sampling of the schools mattresses? Any of them hard? . DG Pledges - . Welcome and Congratulations! . I'll see yoa in January. Kris Tierney. ... Everyone needs a sophomore . to love ... Steve H and Mike S - Good Luck wi1kfinals. See you in January. Kris. To my Geology Lab Buddy, Someone took advantage of the Schenectady Formation on Saturday Dight. Luv, your lab buddy. To Sue B. Don't worry we still love you~ · THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER · STUDY IN OXFORD, ENGLAND Academic Program Several colleges ()f Oxford University have invited The Wasb.ington International Studies Center (WISC) to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college; this i$ NOT a program conducted by a U.S. college in Oxford. Oxford colleges are accredited by the U.S. Dept. of Education to accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Multi-national student housing and s(>cjal activities are offered, and cultural tours are conducted by WISC. A special summer session is dll:ected by WISC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON·, D.C. Pre-professional Program . The Washington International Studies Center offers summer internships wi~ Congress, with the White House with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are tauvt by senior-lev'et government officials, who are also scholars; and by experienced journalists. All college swdents with a 3.0 GPA or above are eligible. For further information, please wtite o~ call.: WRSC • The Wasbington Internation.a.l Studies Center 214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 230 Washington, p.c. 20002 (202) 547·3275 EO/AA Luv~J.& K. Bert and Zero - Keep dealing. See you gays in December .. Prepare the Toom 1 for me in the winter. The Minster. Liz, W anna go to Crossgates\? We have to get white nndemearl We Love You! Lt>ve. Laurie 8t Amy. · Michelle- · How is your table doing? We'll come visit sometime . Love, Laurie, Liz.& Amy. ' :Eyebrows, Hey how's the blue metallica dging? Photosynthes~s. Talking in the College 'Center. Love, Goober & Geek. t>earMami, Thanks for always bemg there! I Love You! Amy. Synnove, I C-ongratulations on becoming a pledge at Delta GammaJ'm proud of you! As for everything else, chee:r up, it will all work out for tile best. Helen. Chuck Sucks Fish! Diane~ Congratulations. I'm very happy for you 'cause lknt>w you're happy for you. Just remember true frien-dships don't die no matter what ••. Ours won't die no matter what. · Suzanne. Fred, Keep smiling. See yoa soon. It's better than you think. Jill. Ricer, Congratulation$ New Pledges of Sigma Delta Tau! Love, The Sisters. K-OAlums, · Kirtgswood football is 6-0. Included in the Undefeated season:s victims is Loomis. ·Judy, Happy21st Birthday. Love Dingy. Leslie Morris, I miss you - B-ut calling collect? ? ? (Kidding). Your Old Roomie . Bnmd, .... You didn't ... maybe the only one left? ... shhhh stjll In shock? LoveLioa. Friday· night's dessert ..• not . baked alaska but baked BRUCE!!! To my little Sis - Stillman - I Love You! Sorry about the ''hallproblem\. NEVER again1 · Volleyball confusion! Love, SlS.- Morn, Good Luck in the race on Satwday!!! · · Love, your Daughter. Marlo, Lisa and Abby, Congratulations on your bids from Gamma Phi. Love Ya, Kim. S.R. #1, I miss you. You belong here with me or I belong there with you. I still miss you. Canlt wait to see you again soon. S.R. #2. · Twerp, 6:30 my time but 7:30 Daylight Savings Time! I rniss yon! WeLoveYou! JASON! Love All of Yom Admirers! THE UNION COLLEGE PHILOS-OPHY DEPARTMENT is pleased to announce the foUowing . colloquium ON THE LIMITS OF HUMAN KNO-WLEDGE JEAN-PAUL VAN BENDEGEM GHENT UNIVERSITY - Nove,mber 4, 1.988 3:30 pm Humanities Building . Room 213 Reception afterwards held in the Humaities Lounge. Colloquia are open to ·the public. For further information call Marianne Snowden (518) 370-6376 . ,l i I '· \ i ! :I ;I :; ' ~ : ~ .,.. ..

lj !t :j . ' \ \ : I :' PERSONALS · Tb~mk you to all the. \matches\ of SD'f! You ar.e amazing. We love you. Love the sisters of SDT. DJ, CQNCO/lDIENSIS Noyember 3,_ 1988 Page 21 CAMPUS NEWS. Julie and Laura, Little Sis, Big Sis; I miss you the mostest. JiU. Mamie- Hey neighbor - want to party?? JC. ' D11e to overwhelming response · · Nancy Connolly ~ Jason is now available for days · How's that baby food?? as weJ.l: as nigh!:S of rnean~gless sex. Call Jason x4 221. Tony will be accepting all ovf.rllow. Tri-Delt, SDT andDG ... CO!lgrafulations and good luck with yout new pledge classes. Love, Gamma Phi Beta. Chi Psi- Thanks for the cocktailparty in · · honor of the· Gamma pledges. Gamma Phi Beta. · Di & Tine, North vs South Davidson Olympics Saturday Nov. 5, 2-4 .. Anal or is it stitch, You felllonyour head??? Not on y()ur ____ ??? Love Oral. We made it to 8!! Can't wait unti. · 12!! · · · · Lester 0- Congrats on a great \·rush-free\ rush! , Thanks for being there on Sat. UC Fie~d Hockey- Great Job! T;T, & A, Cane Congratulations to the Tri Delta Pledges. We'll see you in)anuary. Love from Robin, Beth. Ding, and Jill in Italy. To The Happy Camper: May your birthday be wonderful and your dreams in the coming year. fulfilled. My th.ou:ghts are with you. Love Nishiki. ~ Sig Delt Pledglings, You guys are more than awesome ... Zim, · What makes you think I want to be thought of as one ofyour . groupie girlfriends? I'm Pres. · .of the C.A.B. Fan ClubHJ S.MC I Dirty-Dawg, Your Acorn-Eating Rodent is feeling the winter cold! Isn't it· great? Only 135 days until spring!!! AER. Neil . ' Here is your very own personal. I just want to tell you I am here for you if you want to talk. Hey McGavem, do fins tickle? Love, Betty · Izzo (alias) \The Italian Stallion\) Wherever did you get that beautiful eye? Best Friend Butts, - ... my b.u1l soon??? Wanda, Thanx for the flash this weekend you looked \OH. SO GOOD\! I am waiting in great anticipation for another private showing. Love, Cedric: Rocky, Beware of drunks in Nun's clothing! Jenn, Get psyched for an awesome weekend in Beantown ... Wanda stays home. Love, Dave. Killer and Twe..P! I miss you guys • behave! See you soon. Love, Jnlie. · You did.agteatjQb! Delta Love, Yout Sisters Congratulations to the Nyw 'Tri Delta Pledges, The Sisters of Delta Delta Delta Beto- y ou made a tremendously stunning geek! We hope that it · wiU: be a new addition in your ever expanding collection of C()ngratulations Gamma :PLedges, . Youguys are super. Be :Psyched. There ate more swprises in the future! Nancy Conway & Beth Aubrey Good luck but remember you have a terrific group of pledges to w~rk witb as well as amazing sisters supporting you 100%. Nite. Good friends can make anything bearable. Don't worry. we'll get ours someday! ·Love, Laura DG, Good Luck on your finals and · enjoy the break. Happy Holidays. I Kris. Twerp, A longer bed may 1>e nice. Not n~ed though, if Ann or Bob · call long distance. Redefine Ann! Enjoy your <leserVing rest dllring the winter recess! KrisT. Congratulations to all oi.lf great new Pi Alpba's arid to DG, once again, Thank You. ITB. Maria. Nancy, the \C.E.\ - Congratulations and Happy Belated Birthday! The best is yet tocomel The other \C.E.\ ·personalities {Dude) To My Big, Big Sis: Love Killer. Love, The Delta house. . It's still hard for me to believe Pete, AmyR, Congrats on continuing the RVC tl'a.dition. -_ :Marni and Brooke. To the Seniors of the Delta H<;mse- What are we going to do without another rush?? Ker, Kerry, Kerry - and- ! Miss you. Don't be a geek! (only if you want to!) Have you been shopping w I Alison and Sean at the lodge lately? Much love, Me. Mel & Robin, Miss you. Richmond isn't the same. Hope the heat's good in Italy. Let me know, my Dad'll do something about it. Suzanne. Ruth, What will I do next tenn witl\!out you? Who\lllisten? Who will talk to me? I'll miss you all winter . .Y cu're the best, you know it. Suzanne. Hallie- It's unhealthy for us to discuss those sorts of things in . philosphy class ... Remember our new outlook on life - too bad we never follow it! -Amanda. Delta Gamma Pledges - We're psyched to hav:e you aboard! Love, . · Sister Gouldafid Missy. FJB- Keep your chin up! Love you always! - A. E.G . To The Spanish Princess at ''AD;' on Friday: I like the way you walk! I like the way'you 4:llkl An Admirer. · you were once a cheerleader, but you did a great job leading us Friday. Love, Wendy. I Love the Crescent Moon Shining in the Sky, I love the pillk carnation 'til the day I die ... Field Hockey: Congrats & good luck in the ECACs from an avid fan who doesn't know much about the game. lindsey & Zoe, You guys deserve a standing (}vation. You were just super. You can probably tell by our Gamma pledge class. Congratulations. 1'tacy Furney- 1 am so illcredl'bly psyched that you are a Gamma Phi Beta Pledge. Thanks and I Love you. Love, your \Big\ sister. Gamma Pledges- Hope you had fun Friday and Monday. It's only just begun. Love, the sisters of G-Phi~B. Congratulations Gamma Phi Beta. We all did it, TOGETHER! Leslie M. I miss you. I can't wait for winter term to amive. Yes, we are roommates. I hope you enjoy the rest of your term abroad and get psyched for the next twQ. Suzanne. Lori ' No moce handcuffs'?!? Next time, we'll call Jason .... Thanks for an awesome time. You're the perfect date!! We'll be friends forever - even after we graduate! L. · Kath ' What a weekend!! How about those red lights?? Do.es the escort have brakes?? Want some macaroni Salad?? Thanks for being such a great friend, . here's to memories! L. Union Graduate of 1986, :Chip Peters, will return to the Colle9e on Friday, Nov. 4 to ·deliver a talk and slide show on his experience in. Mali as a peace corps volunteer. Peters' objective while in ,Mali was to encourage farmers, who focus mainly on staple· grain crops such as millet and rice, to grow vegetables ,crops as well, during the slack season in between planting and harvesting. He learned the native language, Bombara, and lived with a Malian family; ''The biggest problem· was taste,\ he says. \They needed the nutrition which the vegetables could provide, but they just weren't used to the flavor.\ .. '

. Page 22 CONCOI;l.DIENSIS .. No-vemb_er 3 ~ 1988 . . I Find· out more rom · ~\'s a Union Alumna Yj~ Chip Peters '86 11:40 College Center Aud. Congratulations to the winners of the SDT 3rd Annual M &M-A-IH-ON 1st place Jon Rothstein 2nd Place Ellen Rosner The winning number 1579 Our thanks to everybody for your support . SIGN UPS NOVEMBER 2ND ' . AND NOVEMBER 3RD Nov. lOth · ·· ~t .. . ~·~ . OxfarnCI An1e~!ca1 JOIN THE FAST Demonstrate your concern for the world's hungry. Skip a meal,- or fast for a day, and donate your food money to Oxfa,m America to fund self-hel:p projects and disaster relief in the Third Worl,d. Hunger and poverty are not inevitab·le~· Togeth,er, we can make a difference. LEWIS HENRY MORGAN INF-ORMAL FACULTY COLLOQUIA THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY INVITES YOU· TO ATTEND A LECTURE ON: \Interpretative Flexibility And- The Professional 'Interests Of Scientists ln The Acid Rain Controver:sy'' Stephen Zehr Visiting Assistant Professor of Sociology Tuesday, November 15th 3:30pm Social Sciences 1 05 REFRESHMENTS ·; . o/isage 1-{air ana 'Ianning s tuc(io 557 Nott St. 374-0351 SPECIALS OF THE MONTH: All Perms are $10.00 off Facial and pedicure $50.00 Highlighting is $15.00 off ALL YEAR: Jits/(for Joann, 13etfi, .Lynn Haircuts are $5.00 off Body Wraps are $10.00 off \ TANNING: '' 100 visits for $79.00 50 Visits for $49.00 . (Can Be Shared) . Waa}ng Is 5tl$o 5f.vaifa6Ce . ......_ ___ . .:....· ------~......_,_,_.-~- Abortion Forum Friday, November 4 Sponsored by Religious Programs · . Dinner at 6 pm in the Kosher Kitchen. Reservations required. · Please contact x6087, x6618 or x6539. Meal cards may be used. A rabbi, priest, and pastor will be leading the foru~ on the theological stances of the Jewish, . Protestap.t, . and, Roman Catholic faiths ·concerning abort.lon ·;at 7 pm .. · You are· welcome· to· come· ju~t for, the f~ruih~ · · · · ··· '· ,

C'ONCORDJENSiS Nvvember 3, 1988 Page 23 Mouthing Off By ANDY 13RA VER father- he fs a grandfather. If this past Au~ust, Lafleur put he was a fataher, he weuld have on a Rangers ullifonn. After Sports are for lids, a real job, andnot.help·a bunch working in .the real wodd for Grown\'ups have no time to of over-grown kids play · almost 4 years, he decided spend playing lliound, because · around. being an adHlt was not for him. they have to work in the real In the world of sports today, Lafleur i.s still a kid at heart. world. · age can make or break a career. He is the second player in ··, Ptofessional atblews are not For some, youth is th,e saving league history to be in the Hall gmym-.ups. Tbey are just grace, while for others· of Fame and still playing normal kids in :big people's e:x,perie1;1ce can prolong caree~s. Gordie Howe returned .to play bodl,es. They ha~en't grown up, But in some very rare cases, after a 'brief retirement, and and don't want t(); Most have· desire and. love for the game eveqtually retired in his early ·every reason not to grow up can o~ercorne almost every fifties. But one must consider because of_ the mo11ey involved. obstacle. . that a player ml:lst be retired for Big kids get paid exorbitant __ . Guy Lafleur is 37 :years old a minimum of 3 yellis to be amounts of money to do what and a member of the New York inducted into the Hall. So to they love to do, and can do Rangers. He played right wing come back after an extended best. PLAY! for the Montreal Canadians and layoff is a feat in itself. Athletes can't be looked was the stat on a team which Lafleur is not just playing upon as adults until they leave dominated the National Hockey for New Yerk Rangers. He is theit childhood andtbeirgames League in the 70's. League playing well. In the teams first behind them and join the real · Most Valuable Player twice eleven games, he has scored 3 w:orld. and pl~y-off M.V.P. onc:e, he goals and has6 assists. Lafleur But one's life of play might was driven out of Montreal in is one miUn reason why the not end with. the playing. 1984. Lafleur retired in mid- Rangers have,the bestrecord in S()me love their games so season, scoring only one goal the league, and why they are in much that they can't leave ·in his last 10 games. the, midst of their longest them (or they just can't grow Lafleur was a kid for the first winning streak in the past ten np). They stick.aroUildandhelp 33 years of his life; when he years. the younger kids keep on retired, he became a man. But Guy Lafleur is still a kid at playing - they become coaches.. his love fer his childhood and heart. ~e does not want to But a coach. is not a kid the game of hockey overcame gtow up; he loves to play, and anymore. He b.as to work (sort bis will to he a man. Deep he is going to continue to do ot)._ He must lead, teach, and down inside, he was still a kid. tba.t for the New York Rangers. reprimand 'his players like a Three days after being The kid in Guy Lafleur is father would d.o· his own inducted into the National · goi!l¥ to keep the g~own-up r children. But a coach is not a Hockey League's Hall of Fame wattmg around for another . couple of years. America's Pastime Defended By ANDREW the main point of the article, SEEWALD · · · that more teams should be When I first read Andy Braver's \Mouthing Off\ last week, I was surprised. But then I read it again and was flat out worried. Suppose this whirlwind of radical thought snould reach'th.e commissioner of b~seball's .~ffice1 It might Bot .happen un:til more than a year from now, when Peter Ueberroth bas cleaned his things out an.d Bart Giammatti assumes the.. IJOSition. There would be notb.ing to stQp this tom~do that Mr. Braver has whipped. up. Aild by that time !here could be millions, nay, rather, billions who have mindlessly s11pported Mr. included in baseball's playoffs, but it does not make much sense on its own. · History is on the side of baseball. No other major sports league in this country has been · around as long·. No proposal is· offered for starting the season later, or fot ending it earlier. So I will treat the open-ended proposal with :r~spect to either scenario. · ·Suppose an 80 game sch~du[e gets underway in Apnl. The World Series would be played, ·allowing for a le~gthier playoff ~!fUcture, in mid-July. Not even in the dog- days of August. July. The \July Gem\ doesn't have quite the same ring as \The Fall Classic, ... , does it. Okay, so how about getting underway in July? Hmmm. we could still have September pennant races and the World Series would be returned to its proper place. Yes, but spring trainfug would spill into summer. saw this yeat, baseball is a game of pitching. The team with .the best pitcher wins. Or, at least, the team with tl..J. worst, does not win. Playing only three or four games a week would requite teams to have no more than three starting pitchers, and one good ·relief pitcher could save every game. But the beauty of baseball is that, while featuring individual performances, it remains & team game, with contributions from all U'\players needed for a successful season. In baseball, a single player can carry a team for a while, but sooner or later he will rely on his mates. The three other major sports are in contrast to this. Michael J_ordan is single- handedly capable of directing a woeful assemblage of second- rate players into the playoffs year after year. John Elway has led a mediocre team to two consecutive Super Bowls where his Broncos were handily Concordiensts SPORTS SPO'RIS ACCORD'ING TO GOETZ ~ By GREG GOETZ At Union, most student- ' athletes play for the love of · ·. their sport or sports. The opportunity to be involved in a sport at the collegiate level is often a great motivation for a student to choose Union. This circumstance greatly enhances the benefits of classroom study. Being astudent requires. fuU-time attention. But pa11ticipation in sports teams are also a substantial investment of time. Academics should be the main priority for the student- athlete: Look at which word comes first, The little phrase isn't in alphabetical order,.and I think that this indicates which activity should have priority. Even coaches -will emphasize to their players that the reason that they are here is to get an education. Student-at~letes have many pressures on them. Full energy must be devoted to whatever activity they are engaged in for truly positive results to be reaped. however. pressure to produce on the playing field often interferes with studies and visa versa. While coache~ will repeatedly tell their players of the importance of their education, they have their job to do, and these two things often interfere with one another. Student-athletes must. realize that their top priority is getting an education; and not · allow their participation in a , spart, which they can walk . away from, to binder their getting a degree. At tbe Division III level, its not nncommon to find athletes ~uitting their sports when they fmd that they no longer enjoy competing and or cannot afford this distraction from their stu~ies. These days. being involved in a sport can involve an off-season commitment to co~~itioning and weight- trammg. So playing a sport has now become a year -round commitment and some players do not feel they can devote time to maintain their involvement in both~ Being a student-athlete requires the ability to balance and prioritize one's activities. Some people qm excel in both areas. simultaneously, and enjoy the benefits that each can provide. But to do so involves realizing the significance of each ~vent and placing the more Important one ahead of the less important one. put into their proper place. We the saying goes, \Anything can know how much Wayne happen.\ Anything, like the Gretzky has meant to his Vancouver Canucks reaching teams. the Stanley Cup Finals in So six games a week for 162 1983. games really shows us which Besides, baseball is healthier teams are best. And if we than ever. Just one team failed · know which teams are best, we to draw one million fans this have eliminated the need to year •. a mark that used to be include second-division clubs something of a milestone. And in made-for-money post-season hey, nobody's forcing you to tournaments. And lees not · watch all 162 games. forget t11at the reason they were . created is ·money. Basketbal~ and hockey play in 15,000 seat arenas. Football plays just 16 games. Particularly in basketball and hockey, many fans wQuld stay home if their team that has .won about one- th~rd of its games did not have a shot at making the playoffs. This is a dangerous formula when teams so bad meet teams so good in a short series. As You might be starting to wonder why this is such a big deal to me. Well, as one of what I believe to be a diminishing number of bas~ba~l purists, I feel it is my obligation. Mter all, if ·domed s~diums, astroturf, designated hltters, and lights at Wrigley can happen, then even the most cockamamie proposals must be treated seriously. •.•. don ft fix it. . \Braver's. ideas. I know that these people must exist, because these :are the very same people who have been conditioned m feel comfortable with Dan Qu.ayle a heartbeat away from the presidency. It might be too late to do anything a.bout the Quayle fia~c<?,, ~ut I am cautiously optimtstlc 'that I can spare our nation's pastime from the same Okay, I've got it this time. Since tl)e object is to make baseball like basketball and hockey, we could play just thtee, maybe four games a week. This sounds like it could work. First, let's consider why these sports play so few games. Unlike baseball basketball and hockey ar~ ga.nes that cannot be played to their utmost night after night. The only player in baseball ~Ito c~not play wen evety day 1s the p1tcher. Make a· difference ••• fate as our 11ation. · The suggestion is offered that the major leagues play a· far too lengthy season. It is not specified what the length of the ideal schedule ought to be, so I will infer tb.at, given tbe context of the comparison, the baseball sea~on should be roughly the same length as the hockey or basketball seasons. Well, not .only does this undermine wllat seems to be .. Which conveniently brings us to the neltt problem. As we '\' ... beco,me a teacher! You ~n ~ow graduat~ from Union ~ith your b~chelor•s degree AND certification to teach grades 7·12m p1ology, chem1stry, earth sc1ence, English, French, general science, German Greek Latin .. mathemati~s. physics, Spamish, or social studeis (history, political science, sociology/antropology, or economics maJors). • · OR You can complete a five~year combined degree program and receive both your bachelor's degree and a Master .of Arts in Teaching. . Applications and further information are available from: • Prof. Jan McDonald. Educational Studies Program Humanities 020,. x6361

'\. .. ~. :o.' .,~, ··· · ..... ~~.0· .... c·'-'··•· · .. ···\'=·'\'=·'*\'···L .J~I!;;j;O. . . .. Women's .Field Hockey (15·1) ranked 3rd ill State will be seeded first f.or the ECAC's next Saturday at Montclair at 3:00. Union Hockey pre-season off to an Impressive $tart. November 3, 1988 Skating Dutchmen Defeat U- Conn in Pre-season Tune-up By ANDREW SEEWALD Saturday night at Achilles Rink, the Union hockey team defeated the University of Connecticut Huskies, 7-5. The victory sent mixed signals about the team for the upcoming season however. The Dutchmen demonstrated a great deal of potential, utilizing their superior speed and excellent depth in what could be described as more often than not dominant play. But the team has 13 freshmen on the 27-rnan roster, and there were instances when the youths hurt the team. \I saw·us do a lot of positive things against the Huskies,\ said first year cooch Bruce Delventhal, \but there are a good many things that we've got to work on. i really don't consider this a building year, rather a learning year, for all of us. ' Coach Delventhal comes to Union from the Rochester Institute of Technology, where he was the head coach for four years. Last year, his team ended Union's season with a 5-4 double-overtime victory. Overall, Coach Delventhal compiled an 87-39-2 record, taking 1st place in the NCAA playoffs in 1985, and 1st in the ECAC's in 1986. Delventhal cites the U. Conn. game as .~eneficial to both himself and his team. \It certainly was a nice way to start things off. It serves as a great confidence builder for our younger players,\ said the, coach. If points collected are proportional to confidence compiled~ then several players should be particularly confident for this Saturday's contest against RPI. Among the freshmen, right-wing David Moody scored two goals, center Craig Ferrero had a goal and two assists, while center Paul Sullivan had two assists. As for the veterans, three juniors figured prominently on the scoresheet. Marc Goguen ·collected two goals and an assist, Dan Gould had ·a goal and two assists, and Guy Logan, teamed with Goguen and Ferrero, contributaed two assists. The Dutchmen were particularly strong at faceoffs, with a 47-31 edge for the game. The center position should remain a strength for the team throughout the season, especially with the addition of last ye.ar's co-leader in scoring, sophomore Terry Campbell. Campbell is expected to play this week, after sitting out last week's game with an injury. , On the negative side, Union failed to bury the Huskies when they had the chance; . . Untimely penalties and a' defensive lapse in the third period, during which the Dutchmen allowed 2 gQals within one minute, almost cost Union the game. When-- divisional play gets underway, the team will have to remain on a more even keel during games, and that will be in part the responsibility of co- captains Legan and senior defenseman Scott Manley. Last year, the Dutchmen rebounded from an 0-7 start to post a 13-1 t-1 record. This year, the schedule should help Unien to a better start, as the team plays nine of its first ten . contests under the friendly confines of Achilles Rink. After Saturday's game against RPI (7:30 p.m. start, with radio coverage beginning at - 7:00 on WRUC 89.7 FM), the Division II schedule gets underway with Elmira on November 9. A powerhouse team last year, Elmira defeated Union 5-1. ' EA liNG DISORDERS FILM: \FOOD FRIGHT\ AND DISCUSSION WITH: Nan Windmueller, 8.8., RDT- Nutritionist Susan Ritz.enberg, MSW __;_ Specialist in dealing · with Anorexics and ·sulemics Susan Beber, PhD-I.eader of the Captial Region Association for Eating Disorders Support Group TUESDAY; N.OVEM.BER 8 7-9 PM CC Auditorium Sponsored by AM, AWARE, and Union College Health Services The End of the Road for Soccer .By CARL R. FRIEDRICU, JR. The men's. soccer team finished out what proved to be ati up and' down season ·this past week, with a weekend road trip which saw them lose to Clarkson (0~2) and defeat s·t. Lawrence (2-0) and North Adams (3-1) in their final contest. · While the team was outmatched by powe;rful Clarkson, who are bound for the NCAA playoffs, they put a fine effort into their final two matches, ending the season and some remarkable careers on a high note. At St. Lawrence, the Dutchmen overcame the harsh weather to bring their record to the .500 mark. :Denny McTaigueplayed a phenomenal game in goal, with Eric · Reaman aiding the cause in the back. The team benefited from an own goal, which they had a knack for accumulating this year, along with one from Chris A very, who as the season progressed became a strong scoring threat. In the final match at North Adams, the Dutchmen again rc)se to the occasion. McTaigue, in his final match, was superb, as he has been since bis transfer from Division I Cleveland State two years ago., As one teammate states, 'iDenny is our most valuable player:..i don't bow what we'd do without him.\ Another flashy finish was put in by· senior Rich Engdal, who ended his four-year varsi~ career with two goals, giving ll:im three for the year. Avery ~ded the other goal, raising. his team leading total to nine. At North Adams,. n1idfielders David Haas (one goal) and Mike Kijak (two ·goals) provided a strong effort. Eric Gural (four goals) played well up front as well .. ·Although the Dutchmen's 7- 6-3 record does not appear to break any records, which it doesn't, tile 1988 season accomplislred what the 1987 one did-providing experience for young playeJ;s, to build for the future. T:his· time around., . though, the Dutchmen did it with a winning record, which · makes {)fie dream of what the fut!Jre WILL hold. SUPPORT GROUP FOR GRI·EVING Have you experienced the l'oss of a parent, relative or close f.riend? Do~ you need .to talk about how you deal with the upcoming holidays? If so, come to CC404B Thursday, November 3rCI4 pm For More Information contact: Religous Programs Office 6618 5087 6539·

• _ ...... ,, . Vol. CXVIII, No. ··s .College 187'7 r{.~· Schenectady, New York November 10, 1988 BLAS Confronts Deans with Student Concerns By FIONA SHUKRI Editor-in-Chief This past Monday night at 7:00 in the College· Center Auditorium roughly 40 members of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students met with 6 members of the administrntion to discuss Black and Hispanic stude\}t concerns. The .administration members present were: Dean of Faculty James Underwood, Dean of Students Joseph Mammola 1 Assistant Dean of Students Frederick Alford, Associate · Dean of Faculty Terry Weiner, Dean of Undergraduate Affairs Margaret Schadler, and Director of Security Paul Mantica. Also invited, but unable to attend wen~: Dean of Admissions K-enneth Nourse, Dean of Residence Life Dave Wood, former Associate Dean of Undergraduates Studies Willard Roth. · The meeting started with student's questioning the deans about the curriculum. One student asked whether the College intended to expand the course offerings from the one existing Afro-American History class currently offered. He stated that courses such as · this one ate important because the ratio of minorities to . m~ority students (roughly 70~ 30) encourages more minority students to parti:cipate in ·classroom discussion because they don't feel the burden of \representing their race\ that · they feel in other classes. . Weiner responded that the College is planning to hire a new American History · professor, and that it will \put · pressure\ on that professor to teach a similar coiJrse. Another student complained that the pelitical system's treatment of minorities is virtually ignored in the · classroom, as is minorities' stuggle. to \get where they are today\ and claimed that they . were dangerous omissions. Mammola agreed that this is a \gap in the curriculum that needs to be addressed.\ Weiner · added that he teaches a course in American Education that addresses busing, integration and various . other minority issues in education,. and that he knew of Other courses that addressed minority issues. Unfortunately no one knows which courses will address · these issues. The attending officers · responded positively to the student's suggestion ·that. the college could provide advisors with lists of courses that dealt with these kinds of issues. Alford stated that students should speak up if they feel a Black or Hispanic voice isn't represented in .a course, to which one student in the audience responded \Well it's hard for 2 students to stand up in class and say . 'Hey. you haven't addressed the black issue\. One female student gave an example of the difficultie~ in doing so. She stated that she had a psycholQgy class consisting entirely of white men except for herself and 2 other black women. 'The professor was discussing reverse discrimination, and the class just -went off! Tb.ey were so angry, there was no way I was going to say anthing.\ A student then asked what the College was doing to recruit more minorities. Mammola responded that the College has increased . the money for minority recruitment travel. and that a significant amount of financial aid· has been set aside for minorities. A couple of students mentioned that various cplleges they had applied to provided pamphlets to prospective minority students with quotes from minority ~students about the benefits and opportunities their school provides for minorities. Mammola responded that it was an excellent idea and that it should be discussed. with Dean Nourse~ but one student pointed out that he had made the same suggestion last year and nothing was done about it. When asked about measures taken to increase the College's retention of Black and Hispanic students and to make their situation at Union more comfortable, Underwood stated that the concern would be considered when organizing the new Freshman Year. Committee which will focus on helping freshmen adjust to Union. But he emphasized that the administration needs input to understand what minority students may need to acclimate more easily. \I didn't come to this . school to educate and eradicate the racism of 15S3 white people.\ Bias. Member. One student responded that \something must be done to address the culture shock\ that many incoming minority students feel. \I went to a private high school, so I already went through that c:u Iture shock, but many st!ldents have difficulties\ 11oting that many incoming Black and Hispanic students C()rne from high schools that are comprised primarily of Blacks and Hispanics. A student added that minority weekend, and other orientation pr(}grams offered don't address act11al living conditions. He cites one problem they have encountered is finding a place t() get together informally. He s~tes that students call secUrity t<> complain about loud music w llen a number of the Black ami Hispanic students get t()gethet in someone's room, wllereas they don't complain I ab()ut other students' music. \I th;()nght ((ollege was supposed to teach you to tolerate other cllltures!\ Mammola responded that \srecuri ty knocks on a lot of do()rs\ and that minority stutlents are somewhat burdened with the responsibility of clla_Uanging others pre- C()nceptions to which one student responded \I didn't C()Jne to this school tQ educate a!ld eradicate the racism of 1553 white people.\ Another student pointed out that the College currently has Continued on page 2 Feature · · Article Abortion: A Panel Discussion Business Section The Union Investment Club Hits the Market Sports Fi~ld Hockey Wins ECAC Title ,. 'I, !. I'. ,! . f . I ' .j ' \: i ' i' \' ; . ,. '.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS Nqvc'inber '10, 1988 ,<ttnncnrlliensis NEWS ANAL-YSIS e~ _ ection at ot wa By JED FERDINAND h~tunt him. Yet, as the campaign dragged on, these The 1988 presidential issues became much less Reagan Administration. Yet, a · used negative campaign ads candid~te might have made an · strong and personable · which were quite effective in appeal to mate voters: \Listen election will go down in impoFt:ant.. Ed Meese resigned, . Democratic candidate could pounding this message into the . in my heart I wot~ld want 'them have done so. Michael ·. ininds Qf the WMte male, •' dead, b.ut it sim)Jly is not the history as the one election that the North trial was pushed back · Dukakis, devoid of ~ny real voters. Dukakis did not defend right thing to. do.\ Dukakis the Democrats should have until after the election, and as · won, but did not. The · the Democrats eventually Democrats bad the election all . • learned the hard way, people do but locked up in July: they had · not care enough about the an 18 point lead in the polls, · deficit to vote agillst the an opponent whowas perceived • Republicans. · to be a joke, and a unified party Furthermore, most Americans personal appeal, simply did not hims.elf with. the necessary appealed weak and uninspiring. have the means to sway me vigor, choosing instead to Thus, he handed the largest necessary voters to win tbe arouse sympathy by sticking voting bloc to . George Bush election. with ilis campaign of . on asilverpl~tter. ' The Democratic N atioJial . competence. This proved to be · It is quite easy to look back Convention appeared to unify a ¢rttcial mistake, as wuue· . now .and·Criticize the effoJ;,ts of behind them. Yet, the began to think positively about · • the party. While the Brown remarke.d, \a lie Michael Dukakis. ln all convention was successful in unanswered becomes a truth fairness, he tried to remedy his appeasing Jesse Jackson and .shortcomings: in the final Republicans had the distinct advantage of running in a period of peace and prosperity. The Democrats needed to tun a flawless campaign to overcome . the peace and pros11erity hurdle. They did not, and therefore allowed the Repubiicans to gain the necessary momentum to win the election. There are many reasons why Michael Dukakis lost the election to George Bush. Yet, there are two basic factors which stand out as being the most damaging to ~the Democratic campaign: the popularity of the Reagan Administration and more importantly, the failure of Michael Dukakis to capture the white male vote. ··The Reagan Administration's string of embarrassments were supposed to be an asset to the Democratic chances of gaining the White House for only the second time in twenty years. In May, Ronald Reagan's popularity was dwindling as the deficit, Ed Meese, and Oliver North came back to . ~ There are two fnctors which stand out as being the most damaging to the Democratic campaign:. the popularity of the Reagan administration and the failure of Dukakis to capture the white male vote .• the state of the economy: with unemployment and inflation · both stable, the deficit was simply not an issue on which the Democrats were able to capitalize. By October, Reagan's popularity rating had grown to an astounding 58%. Thus, it is no accident that the surge of George Bush's popularity directly coincides with the increasing popularity of Ronald Reagan. It would have been difficult for any Democratic candidate to overcome the popularity of the k · week of the campaiagn he 4id securing the Blac vote, tt make a last ditch .effort to scared away mast of th.e . traditional white Democrats By Oetober, Reagan's become pa8sionate by invoking whoweretroubledbyJackSon's po.pular:ity rating had the U.beral tradition of the radical ideology. Thus,. Michael grown to 58%. Thus, it Democratic par~y. Yet, it was. Dukakis left the convention is no acddent that the too litUe too ':late. The failnre · having alienated the most surge of Bush's of Michael Dlikak:is. is one of important bloc of Democratic popularity. directly image and p.ersonality. We are voters, which he was ne:ver . coincides with the now l¢ft with President George able to recover. popularity of ~eagan·. Blish, who most Americans will soon come to realize is not ana Following the Conventi<lrt, never was Ronald Reagan. Dukakis continued to commit · · -----------~ the AJ;nerican people have seFious strategic and tactkal · . just been .subjected to an awful errors which served to drive · within .24 hours.\ The Presidential campaign. This away the white mal~ voters. American people actually campaign. was based on Dukakis' basic message, that . believed that Dukakis was , · negativity and was <ievoid of this campaign was about weak, and in a. sense they had substantive issues: it insulted competence, not ideology, every rightto, because Dukakis . the nation's intelligence. For ' proved to be politically fatal. neyer said otherwise until it . · this, George Eusll is mostly to The Republicans made this a was far too late~ . blame. As A.M. Rosenthal campaign of Ideology, and in · · Dukakis had the chance in • remarked this .past week, the process, ruined Dukakis' both Presidential debates. to Michael Dukakis has left this image of competence. sway the white male voters, carnpaigf! with bis \honor Trailing in the polls, the yet they simply would not integrity, and family intact.\ Republicans went right for the budge. In the second debate, •. Can George Bush make that ideo~o·gical jugular, Dukakis' mechanical response · same s~tement?Finally, to the successfully ruining Dukakis' to the que.stion regarding the American people, who must he image by portraying him as death penalty for someone who · incredibly bored of this soft on crime, . defense and had raped and murdered his wife· nonsense by now,. join me jn patriotism .. The Republicans sealed his fate. A personable · saying \Thank GOI;l it's over.\ College Should Ease Culture-Shock Continued from page 1 only three black professors \who through no fault of their own, are not always available for advising and comforting - I don't want to say comforting, but at times that's what it is.\ \At SUNYA they go to the Afro-American Department. We don't have any faculty to relate to and explain that you are not always going to receive the treatment that you want.\ A student added \We end up beating each other down - shoving each other away from homework to listen to each other's problems\. · When asked why the College still hasn't hired a diJ;ector of minority affairs, Mammola responded that the position was offered to two applicants, but they opted not to take it. One student stated that minority faculty were needed to heighten the aspirations of the .minority students and encourage them to reach their potential. He mentioned that the success rate for black pre- medical students was lower than at many other colleges, and prospective students will consider that when they choose where to go. ~e recognized that . hiring tenure-track professors is expensisve and suggested that, for the time being, the College · secure grant money to attract visiting minority faculty. He went on to say that Uniona must make itself attractive to minorities \C-Step sells ST/J{I09?S departments, but you must sell the institution.\ \We don't have the answers, the deans don't have the answers, we need someone to research; Why didn't those applicants take the position?\ Another concern that was addressed was the inclusion of \Native Son\ by Richard Wright in the freshmen preceptorial reading list. Some of the students present voiced the ·opinion that the book reenforced negative stereotypes about blac~. The book will come up for review among tl:le preceptorial professors ·before next tenn at which time they will decide if it will remain ()fi the list. Some students questioned security measures claiming that students working at the security desk stop black male students, but let white males in the dorm without calling to have the woman they were visiting verify them. Mantica responded that everyone should be stopped and a call placed to verify them. He claimed that there is breakdown in the security system because many students .:respond to peer pressure, and that the security desks in the all-women donns . should probably be worked by non-students. When some males in the audience claimed that security tended · to follow· them as though they were suspicious, Mantica responded that that probablY happens to a lot of ·non-minority students as well. \Blacks whites, Chinese - anyone acting suspicious will be followed. We are not targeting blacks.\ He said that it is inappropriate if it happens any more frequently to them than other students and· that they should report such an occurrence to him. The meeting seemed to provide the College officers present with a lot of feedb~k, and some suggestions, but some students fe-lt that their questions went unanswered. One said afterwards, 1 'They didn't give us an:y defini.ti:ve answers; and they didri't make any promises.\ l·nterested in Politics? There will be a photographer for Senior Portraits on November 1Oth and 11th, Fourth floor College Center. Retakes are also available at this time with a $3.00 sitting charge. Sign up to get a sitting in Mrs. Marra's Office. CC404. Interested· i'n Debatln:g? The Garnet Want to attend the H.arvard & Ptinceton Simulate'd United Nations? Come to the first meeting of the lnternati:onal Rela.· tions Club . . ' Room 203: Colleg.e Center 4:00pm November 11 ., •j !

., I' CONCOR])lBNSlS November 10, 1988 Page 3 Union Institutes Educational Studies Program . By ELISE FOODY N~ws EdUor Onion Colleg.e has most recently designed a progrmn in which students may become certified secondary school teacb~rs. The Educational Studies Program, is the first of its kind at Union as well as throughout the Capital District. Union offers a four-year undergraduate program which combines both the student's academic major and several courses designed . specifically for the program. Union has also developed a one-year graduate p;r.ogram which would eventually lead to a Master of Arts in Teaching. This program however is stii1 pending approval from the Nev. York S.tate. Depattment <>f Education. Professor Janet McDonald Director and Coordinator of the Educational Studies 'Program, stated tbat there are numerous advantages to having the option of teaching open to ·a11 Union Undergraduates. She stated thc:\t the teaching profession has become inore attractive for various reasons. .Among them are the fact that salaries are improving. For .example, the rnedian saiary for a public school teacher in ·westchester County is $39~000. McDonald al:so stated tbat \the entry of Union into a program like this adds to the prestige of the teaching ,profession\. To enroll in the Undergraduate Program. students must submit an application and receive acceptance •• They will then be required to complete the prerequisites for their major as · well a$ several additional courses and Field Experiences. Some 0f the additional' courses required include Issues in American Education (Soc 52) and· Educational Psychology (Psy 50) .. There are also two Field Experiences required for completion of the program. You would be required to spend a minimum of five consecutive school days · observing classes and meeting with secondary school teachers in the djscipline for which you seek certifiction. One of the two experiences will be at a . junior high or middle school and the other experience will take place at a high school. Union was able to begin the Educational Studies Program · with the assistance of a $96,000 grant from the Fund for Improvement of Post Secondary Education. Associate Dean of Graduate and contacted Union about Continuing Studies, Joan becoming involved in the Krejci was respo.nsible for program. There have also been helping Union to obtain tile .. inquiries about the program. grant. from schools such as Stanfonl One of the aims ofthis grant and RPI. is to hire secondary sc:hool On a more important level .. teachers to work in continuing Professor McDonald has given development ·of the program. · forty individual interviews and This feature of the prcgram is has spoken with over thirty what Professor McDonald other students who have believes is the most unique. . expressed an interest in the Students who enrotl iil the . program. program will be ';team-taught\'·· Applications for admission by secandary school teac.hers as to the program are due January well as by their own professors . 15. All students regardless ()f here at Union. Because ·their class year are more thaa McDonald believes that welcome to apply. Finally,. students' own professors are there will be informational integrated into the program's meetings today at 3:00 and faculty, it is ·~easier to promote 7:00 in the College Center and interest $tudents in the , Room 409. For any additional teaching field\. ~nformation, students are urged The Educational :Studies to contact Professor Janet Program is J<>oking McDonald at the Educational impressive. Several area .. Studies Program Office i11 ,s_econdary schools have alr~dy Humanities 020. B~ard of Trustees . College Prepares For Library Expansion Ga1ns New Member . · - · . _ By KEVIN W. IRLAND automated circulatio11 system. between three and five years to Seemann explains that the · complete, will fulfill the circulatio_n System, wl!ich will · library needs of the College for be op.erati?nal January2, 1989, 115-20 years. By JAY FREELAND 1 . Century that can be seen is Schaffer Library. What are ·News Editor 1 located just off Church Street its problems and what are the in Saratoga Springs. This is plans to correct its present On October 26 of this year; the site of a 39-home deficiencies? ~- WayneT. Senecal,agraduateof subdivision to be called The In an attempt to improve Union College, was elected to · Enclave at Buff Pines. Schaffer Library, Associate serve on the Board of Trustees · · Senecal serves as the Professor and Director of the of Union College. Senecal, a . l)ational chairman of the Library,. Ann M. Seemann, is l()c;l,l :res~d~nt ·uvin~ jn · 1'errace Council, the large-gifts · undertaking several programs Rexford, wtll serve a term on · portion of the. Annual Fund . that will bring Schaffer Library the board lasting unti11991. · Campaign for the College, and in line with the schools with Having grown up in the he is a member of Union's which Union College Capital District area, Senecal ~ Garnet SoCiety. In addition, traditionally compares itself. attended Union and graduated \Senecal also serves as a These programs will update cum laude in 1972. He went on . member of the Board -of Schaffer Library's circulation from here to earn his master's Directors of the Saratoga and cataloging systems. In de_gree . in business County YMCA. He is. the addition, plans for the future adminis.tration from Hiu-vard treasurer and a member of the include the renovation and Unlversity. Senecal is cu:irently 1 Eoard of Directors of the 1 expansion of the present the president of New Century Saratoga Arts Council and I building. Successful compte- - Development Corporation .graduated from· the Leadership tion of these plans will which is involved in many Saratoga program sponsored by alleviate the .structural projects locally. the Greater Saratoga Chamber deficiencies and space Senecal's company proje(!ts ()f Commerce in 1988. limitations that the library is in our area include a four-acre Union welcomes its newest currently experiencing. site on the Mohawk River in member to the Board of -· The first of these programs Rexford which will beco.me a 1'rustees and looks. forward to a . that will affect the function of cancer treatment center. good term with Senecal as we Schaffer Library is the Anotber endeavor by New · move into the nineties. implementation of an \c/ Reported Security Incidents Dating October 31-November 6: Date 10/31 10/31 10/31 10/31 11/1 11/1 ll/2 11/3 11/3 11}4 11/5 11/5 11/5 11/6 11/6' Location Library Davidson Fratemity-ZBT Administration L<Jt Fox/DavidsonQWJ.d Sorority - SDT Campus Perimeter College Center area College Bookstore . Sorority - Tri De:lta · Raymond Parking Lot College Center West College Fraternity - Beta Jackson's Gardens SAFETY Tl'PS: Incident Recovered Property Theft from student room Theft from student room Vandalism to several :vehicles (tires slashedJ Fight - Students & non students Vandalism -Paint on door Female student jogger followed: (Description: 2 Dr. gray Hatchback driven by white rnal,e ~O's, 5'8\. brown hair, glasses) - info to SPD. Suspicious persons Student shoplifter Theft of \Microwave & food items Vandalism to abandoned car Theft from display case, property secured for safekeeping. Recovered property - couch from lounge Theft from vehicle -jeep doors 3 juveniles pointed pellet gun at student- Apprehended- · turned m:er to SPD. 1. Always lock the door to y()ur room ... even if you are awa,y for a short while. 2. Never leave valuables or personal property unattended or unsecured ... Avail yourself of inventory .sheets and operation identification. 3. Women should not walk Clr jog alone off .campus ... use buddy system or campus facilities. 4. When walking at night fClDow the established lighted paths ... know locations of emergency telephones. has been _muse for Its second 11 The expansion and year at M_iddl~bury C()lle~e and renovation of the library will Tufts Umvers1ty. Ac<:<Jrdmg to · ' increase stack space, as well as Seemann, these sch0ols have . 1 . study and office space. found this system t() be an Seemann would also like to see asset to their institutions and i a current periodicals reading there have been· very few · room, additional faculty problems.. studies, vehicular access with a The second phase of Schaffer Library's automatio!l is the introduction of an on-line public access catalogue system. Seemann states that this system \... will eventually eliminate the need f()r card catalogues.\ This system. which will function tluougll the Vax system, will eventually contain the entire record of the library's books, periodicals, and other materials on computer tape. Access will be possible through terminals that will be located thr<Jughout the library and eventually at various locations .across campus. These two improvements were made possible, states Seemann, \ .•. through a $300,000 grant from the Pew loading dock, and proper . housing for special collections ' and the archives. There is also a possibility that space could · be allocated for the Computer Center, the Audio- Visual Department, and language labs. Seemann believes that all of these services complement each otht:r and that it is logical to place all of them in the same facility. An internal study completed in 1984 determined that Schaffer Library was running out of space very quickly, reported Seemann. This lack of space, \ ... is compounded by the fact that the microfiche I collection~ grow ~Y leaps and ·bounds. m addition to the roughly 9,000 volumes that are added yearly.\ Seemann states that the present and future improvements of Schaffer I Memorial Trust and a matching grant from the CoHege.\ In addition to the iucreased efficiency in locating and checking out books, the system will provide prompt records of overdue items. The system will also have tlle effect of increasing circulation because of increased ease in doing \card catalogue\ searches. , Library, will increase our standing in the Oberlin Group. The Oberlin Group consists of a number of notable colleges throughout the country, whose librarians -meet on a regular basis to discuss common concerns. Seemann judges that Union, \... is not the biggest nor the smallest; not the best nor the worst.\ She concludes that the planned improvements will increase our stature. The most important and far- reaching improvement .planned for Schaffer Libraxy is the renovation and expansion ·Of the e,USting structure. Seemann . says that the fourteen~person · Library Program Planning Committee, consisting of · administrators, faelllty, and students, is currently waiting fat the second draft of the · preliminary program from the planning architect. The plan for expansion, which will take When asked what her hopes are for Schaffer Library, Seemann states, \We on the library staff want Schaffer Library to provide the best possible facilities and services to all segments of the College .community as we strive to fullfill the educational mission of this institution.\ • i ; I

·Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS Nmnmber 10, 1988 Student Forum Discusses Campus Security Issues By BRAD MONDSCHEIN Mantica along with Sergeant RQmeck stressed the point that any group, such as dorms or sororities, is welcome to invite The Student Forum went \on · . them to discuss security issues. the road\ bst Thursday to . The Sergeant said that student Richrnpnd House. The Forum awareness of the problem: 011 invited the Director of · carnp11s and their awareness ef Security, Paul Mantic a, to . happenings around them ~will attend the Forum and answer assist the security men in their questions on topics regarding 1 , job because \there are more of security issues. The meeting you tban there are of us.·• reiterated the concerns by the i Students asked if the security students and solUtions by , force can receive more.funds f(}r security that were mentioned in : a larger force and the reply by a previous meeting held 1 Mr. Mantica was that it is \np between security and the . to the administration\ to residents of Richmond. Mr. appropriate funds to the security department. Mt;. Mantica went on to say that it would cost aboat :$20,000 a M~ntica pointe(/ out that we're .an ·in this _ together, and ~people bav~ to come forward for the securi~y officers to better , • do their jobs. · . year to hire a new ()fficer which · the force \could always use.'' Mr. Mantica also pointed out that \we're all in this together\ • ·dorms so that visitors can can and II people have to come/ up to a fcJOm when they arrive, forward\ for the security Another suggestion was tbe officers to better do their jobs. instal'lment -of card readers As well as questions on · outside of dorms that-read a existing security problems, the . · credit-card-like card to unlock Director entertained the_ doors of the· building suggestions by the students on · without a key. If a card :is lost how to improve security on ·. the code for the card can be ~campus. The forum s1.1ggested erased automatically and the, that new ligh_ts be installed on ·. card would nev:er 1xl usedagain. the bridge behJnd the Achilles · :Mr. Mantica responded that d1e Rink. Mr. Mantic a replied that- . : system. was looked illto but the tempotary lighting is .being · · pr<)hibitiveness of the cost is installed until permanent large, ·- lighting can be put in. A-lso, Set~eant Tomec;k ~nded the the students s-uggested that :discussion by asking the phones be placed. outside ofthe : student.s to \give us achance.\ How To Distinguish An Eating Disorder.· By AMY BA.BOFF In general, men and women . · are ·preoccupied with their appearance -- weight, fitness, and image. As a result, they focus their concerns on food. attractive and successful a.re options, is one environment promoted by the media, that ca:n intell·sify these advertising and from friends md pressures. family. There exists an overall The result. may lead to an bttlimia are women. What , · makes anorexia and bulimia . different from d~eting or an · oceasional binge:. and what emotional change. Eating disorders are s.erious. They can be medically dangerous and psychologically addictive. However, theJ:e is hope for those with these problems -- they can be cured. ·. eating disorder. Basically,t:here ----------- · are two types that have been Eati11g disorders are serious. They can be · medically dangerous afitl psycholog.ically addictive. prevalent in recent · years especially among people aged If :you suspec;t a 16-25 .. Anorexia; nervosa is. roommate, friend,. ·family charactaetized by an intense member or yourself of preoccupation with food • having an eating. combined with an irrational • · disorder, seek help. fear of becoming fat. 90% of If you suspect a toomate, friend, family inembe.:, or even yourself of having ~ -eating disorder, be AW ~ of the behavior and seek: help. Information, mecical and - . Food is an integral part of our lives. It fulfillS the basic need of hunger and also plays an important role in holidays and personal events. Food can take on many meanings. It can symbolize love, happiness, loneliness and/or depression. It also can be atilized as a substitute for handling stress, fighting feelings or used as a means of punishment. those with an()rexia are ----------- • women. Bulimia, the binge- psychological counseling, as well as peer .support groups exist ()n campus. One with an eating disorder is not alone. \Eating disorder AWAREness may be the first, most important step for personal well~being. . purge syndrome, is a behavior Images of the \ideal'' man or woman who m'ilst be both .pressare to measure up and to · pattern, of altema.te extreme ultimately conform to the:se hinging and vomiting. Studies societal standards. The colle~e have shown that' a typical atmosphere with its parties, binge is approximately 3500 dining hall and late night snack calories. 95% of those with terms them eating disorders, is that they are eating behavior patterns over time, · The behavior is addictive· and involves both physical and FROM THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER INTERNSHIPS • WGNA, a local country music radio station, is looking for students for an internship available in the Promotion Department. Flexible hours are available. · ·The CEIP Fund, Inc. offers over 300 paid, short-term envir.onmental jobs and internships throughout the United States. Application deadline: February 1 , 1989 .. • The American Association of Advertising Agencies, In-c. is offering~ 10 week Minority Advertising Intern Program. This is a good opportunity . for career-minded minority students to work in advertising. agencies. Application deadline: January 31, 1989. • WorldTeach, a project of Phillips Brooks Hol.Jse Association, Inc. of Harvard University, is seeking voluhteer teachers for schools in China and developing counties in Africa for a minimum term of one year. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis. • • The New York City Urban Fellows Program allows graduate students to work in a variety of City agencies in areas such as public servi~e delivery procedures, line and staff operations and public policy making. Application deadline: January 18, 1989. . The New York City Government Scholars Summer Program giv91s students the opportunity to learn about New York City governmerlt through on-the-job exp~rience and weeki)' seminars. Opepings are available in every City agency, including the areas of human services, criminal justice, health, law enforcement, computer science anc:l economic development. Application deadline: January 18, 1989. PART TIME I SUMMER JOBS • American Trails West is now accepting applications for staff position~ of summer tours. They are located in GreatNeck, N.Y. • National Park Service is lool<ing for students interested in the positio-n of seasonal park rangers in historic and natural recreational park areas. APPLICATION DEADLINE: JAN. 15, 1989. • F. Cappiello Distributors have a position open for a stock person. Located on Broadway, in Schenectady. • The Carl Co., located on State St., Schenectady, has several openings in sales during the holidays starting immediately. and more information~ •. • Rutgers Student Center will be nesting ~careers in New Jersey\. a NeON Jersey Collegia:te Career Day sponsored by N.J. Chamber of, Commerce, Career Services of. Rutgers University, New Brunswi~l< Campus. Friday, January 6, 1989. • \Is there a Teacher Inside You?\ You are Invited to The Fellows i11 ieaching Institute on Education, January 7 & B, 1989. Teachers College, Columbia. University, New York, Registration Deadline: December 15. More information and Registration applications available .. • Career Trak '89. Career Oppartunitles, Valuable Contacts, Interviews, Offers, Jobs. SENIORS, a brochure of employers and further information is av~ilable. January 10 & 11. Honor Code At Union.May Soon Beco~e A Reality By DAN WAIB.LE One topic of inre.rest for this year's Student ~F(}r:um is the possibility of creafu\g an honor code at Union College. The members of the F<>rum voted unanimously to research and develop this concept.. The Honor Code S11b:.committee was created by the Student Forum to work. exclusively with this project. The Honor Code Sub- committee has obtained information fr()m several colleges that cutrently utilize · honor systems. Using this inf0rmation and tlte -input of the student body, the Committee will determine if in fact an honor code: would best serve our needs. Student · opinion is vitally necessary for · the evaluation to be complete • and representative of Union's students'. Any form of honor code adopted by Union: must . be seen as a written affirmation by the students pledging themselves to academic honesty. Any form of honor code adopted by Union must not be seen as a law imposed by the faculty and administration, but rather a self-imposed, written affirmatio!} by the students, · pledging themselves to academic honesty':-Honor codes do .not express ideology foreign to the academic c0mmunity, they serve to display~ in black and white, the values necessary to any education: the values -. most students certainly hold as their own. In creating an honor code at Union College, we the students, would reaffirm our moral and intellectual co-mmitment to maintaining the most productive academic atmosphere at Union. Ill order to represent the best inte:rests of Union's student body, we encourage all opinions relating to this topic to be ~ent to John Meier/Box 1580. The Student Forull1 still has COMMITTEE POSITIONS AVAILABLE: HONORARY DEGREE BOARD COMMENCEMENT. BOARD CAMPUS OPERATIONS . WRITING BOARD If you nee~ more information about the committees ·ol' an application, :got() the Student Activities Office; Room/408, College Center 1988. YEARBOOKS are now on sale in Mrs. Marra's office,. 4th Floor College Center. The cost is $25.00 payable by_ cash or check. Get one /while supplies last. Order your 1989 book now at a special price. The Garnet .I .; ·' • I I .!'

l ' ' I ,{ I l CONCORDIENSIS November 10, 1988 Page 5 . ·- The Union ·University ' . We need your suggestions for planning upcoming trips. By traveling with the Union University Traveling Club, you can save money with group- discounted prices. The trips listed :below have been Sllccessful day trips in the past. We'd like to know if these trips still interest you, if you are intereted in some newly suggested trips, .and if you have any of your own suggestions to make about furure trips. Please fill out the questionnaire below and return it to the information booth located in the College Traueling_ Club ·~ee·ds Your. Help!! Center. , Are you interested in any of these previous trips'! Yes NQ -··-·· ..---- New York City (bus transportation only) New Ym:k City and a Broadway Play (If yes, which play(s) would you like to see?) Boston (Quincy Market as drop off sight} Would you be interested in an overnight trip? (Saturday morning to Sunday evening) Yes_' No_. _ If yes, where wouldyou like togo? Would you be .interested in these possible new trips? -~ No -r- Skiing (If yes, what mountains?) Montreal _ one-day trip over-night trip. Other Suggestions: Could we have your name and box number? Tliis will enable us to send you preview information about the 'trips you are interested in, before they_ are announced to the campus. (name)·-~--~-~~-___,_,__ _____ (box number). ____ _ Thank You For Your Help! Please Feturn this form to the information booth in the College Center. -- ... - - You odt nee--....· our ·. arents' mane to ust It's~never been difficult for students to convince their parents of the need for a Macintosh® computer at school. Persuading them to write the check, however, is another thing altogether. Which is why Apple created the Student Loan-to- . Own Program. An ingenious loan program that makes bu~ing a Macintosh as easy as using one. Simply pick up an application at the location listed below, or cal1800-83lLOAN. All your parents ............. cintos for you in just a few weeks. There's ~a collateral. No need to prove financial hardship. No application fee. Best of all, the loan payments can be spread over as many as 10 years. Which gives you and your parents plenty of time to decide just who pays for it all •• Introducing Apple's St~dent Loan-to~OWn Program For copies of loan application go to College Bookstore or Office of Computer Services need to do is fill it out, sign it, and send it.. '::Ji~iiiiliiiiiiil If they qualify, they'll receive a check .© 19RB Apple Computer. Inc Apple, t,he Apple logo, and !VIacmtosh are registered trademark; of Apple Computt·r. I nL - \ ' I' I I' ' - ,,

. Page 6 CONCORDlENSIS Novemb£r 10, 1988 FEATURE ARTICLES Actifed on the Brain By MARK 'HAUGHTON Features Editor I got a cold so I went to the bookstote, bought some Actifed, popped the little pills and.... .BANG!!! My liead is cloudy, my nose is running, I have no tissues, I can't hear well and I am struggling to keep my head straight I'm in a lousy mood because I have so· much to do, I can't find my cat, haven't seen him in a week, the beer at my bouse is skunked, and my room smells like my laundry bag. My hands are shaking on the keyboard, I bave no\food in my stomach which is6 probably related to the invisibility ·of the money in my pocket. I have dishes today. I talked to my mom on the phone, the dog got stung by a bee and her face, the dog's face, is swollen such that the neighbors want to carve it out like a pumpkin. \Hey kid, get off my front lawn. Halloween is past, numb head.\ expression on his third attempt at the bar. He sort of looks a8 if he was not sure if the bar was meant to be swung on at all. Be has that look ·Of first doub4 you know, it's 1ik:e that day that your mom eKperienced when she brought you •home from the hospital. \H.. . HONE· 'y· fl\ . oney... . .. : · .·. \Yeah what?\ ''This kid I got... be's, he's, all wrinkly and stuff.\ \Yeah just don't look at hitn.\ . It is that feeling of doubt that ·1 ponder over, preparing to · enter my last full week of class before finals, before failure. On My Mind This. is great aaahhh, this is not so great.... I saw one of those Genesee ads on the tube, the one with the dude swinging from the high bar. If you get another c.hance to see that ad take a close look at the guy's Still my nose drips-, still my head spins, sure my dog's face is swollen and my cat is gone, sure my beer is skunk, but HEY MAN, it's OK. ·I'm not really upset over anything bu:t it sure is fun to complain. I think I'll go bust in on some friends of mine.. I'll rage on their day. See if I'll let them get any work done. Yeah, then I'll go pop· some more Actifed until it's time to get liquered up for the fourth night this week. Wait,. it is only Tuesday. No bud, it's Thursday, Aw-w hell, so I forgot. :By DEBRA VICTOROFF Getting undressed to have sex is a problem, even in these most modern times, when both of us want to, admit to wanting to, and wear V elcrQ underwear. Stripping and being stripped, rather than being fuel for passion, becomes fodder for comedy. Just think about that scene in Fatal Attraction when Michael Douglas, with Glenn Cl()se attached in front, leaps about on one leg frantically trying to shake ()ff his pants with the other. The movie proved how ridiculous the tearing off of clothes can appear to the objective viewer. And that's just the problem witb. complicated designer belt buckles, tight panty hose, the. certainly closed but impossible- to- find dress hook, they em turn undressing into a mine field, not just because of the physical impediment hut beca11s e, for that crucial moment, we may become objective. We stop, look around, and suddenly realize that we're making odd grunting noices or maybe the cat is starin_g at us with a disgusted expression. The sexual dance floor was never all tango and rhumba. More like the watusi. Clothes don't drop off or melt away as they (usually) do in the movies. They get wrapped around your neck or tangled in your earrings. You tear off his Brooks Brothers shirt only to find t11e cuffs are still buttoned. Men start early both recognizing and training to avoid these practical distractions. On the precipice of p11herty, for instance, they practice getting a sister's purloined bra off a willing, if not well endowed, chair. It was probably with mixed feelings that men greeted the advent of the front..,closing bra, all those years of perfecting technique and then the goods are just handed to them. The new clasp location catches many men off guard. Out with a new woman, impressing her with his fluidity of touch, he wrecks it all with fifteen minutes of increasingly panicked fiddling behind her back, pulling, twisting~ sometimes vaulting over a shoulder to check out the sittlation, until the exasperated victim moans, \Idiot it's up here.\ If men think popping a single-clasp Maidenform is tough, however~ they ought to realize what today's women are up against: Undoing a guy's button-fly, preshru\lk, size 32X32 Levi's is not ex.aetly unwrapping a towel. Those button-fly jeans do men a grave disservice. I recall one night in particular. After practically dislocating my thumb, I finally had to resort to straddling the surprised fellow and wrestling in a very indelicate way with his fly \.llltil l got the thing unbuttoned. The mood turned fmm seduction to demolition derby. lf I hadn't been so infu.riated at the entrapment of my object of desire, it would have been hard not to laugh. Even art innocent tube s-ock can wreak havoc. I had undressed one boyfriend down to his socks when the left one somehow became trapped on his foot. impossibly folded between his ankle and his heel, it refused all sensu'al attempts to be gently eased off. Instead, I pulled on the toe until the sock was about two-and~a-half feet long. It finally came free after the gentleman executed a very nice dropkick maneuver that sent me flying in a kind of backward half gainer, landing in an undecorous pile by the VCR. On another evening, I tried to pull a snug-fitting undershirt up off his wonderful torso. Well, we couldn't reach that optimum position, and sure enough, his head and elbows became trapped in an all-cotton cocoon. Try as I might, I couldn't get the higher angle; even on our knees, he was taller than I am. Worse, I started laughing when he made help fill suggestions from inside the shirt and I could see a little pocket of cotton sucking in and ·. out where his mouth was. He finally pulled the thing off, elbowing me only slightly in the eye, and matters went on as they were intended to. With condoms, we have an additional impediment to immediate grat~fication. Nothing we can't handle, of course~ except perhaps the irQny: Usually we're rushing frantically to get things off, .. and now, we find ourselves rushing. frantically to get something ou. Somehow, we manage to continue to have sex; overcoming the sllTprise of seeing the occasional stray condom recocheting off the. headboard, still loving the whole u.rtwieldy dance. As long as they don't put buttons on the things; I th·ink this might just be the one wardrobe addition we can master. Take A Study Break .presents • • • THE COMEDY Of . . OU:R VERY OWN TIM WYMES AND ED S.TEYENS . . Come for laughs! MONDAY NOV. 10TH 8:00 PM CC .AUDITORIUM ·*FREE* \ I 1 1

'\<!', I I :I i I \ . . CONCORDlENSI$ November 10, 1988 Page 7 ..... FEATURE ARTICLES Abortion: A Panel Discussion By LISA CHERANDE Imagine ~ panel discussion with a Catholic, Jewish and Protestant representative. Now imagine that the subject of the panel is abortion. Sound like a pretty heated debate? Perh4}>s a mob scene or a retigious riot?- N othing of the sor~ occurred last Friday evening when the Religious Programs Office sponsored a panel discussion on this hot issue. Representing the three theological perspectives on abortion were Father Joslin of the Ellis Hospital Chapel. Rabbi Dratch of Congr~gation Beth Israel, and Hugh Nevin of the Campus Protestant Ministry. Right from the start ()f the panel the three representatives became at ea1ie · with each other and the topic. Hugh Nevin cracked a joke about their positions on the panel. (He was sitting on the Righf and Rab.bi Dratch was sitting on the Left.} Rabbi r Dratch responded with a joke of his own: '~When does life begin? The Protestant Minister replied: In the second trimester~ The Catholic Priest said: At the moment of\ concepti()n. And the Rabbi said: Life begins when the kids move out of the house and the dog die:s!\ Speaking from the Jewi5h petspective Rabbi DraJch volunteered to go first. He explained that the Jewish . tradition did not have art explicit taw forbidding abortion, but that the Rabbis ov.er the generations h~ve witten on the subject trying to formulate an answer to litis relatively modern problem t!Iat would not conttadict that wbicb. had been written in the Tanh, the Old Testament. The genoeral concensus was that abortion was generally only permitt~d if giving bhth to the child wau.ld . hattn the mother or the fe.tu:s in some way. Nevertheless,. e~tch Rabbi has his own perspective and each case deserves individual attention. What qualifies as harm varies within the diferent sectors .of the religion, and each woman rnt~st do wfiat is best for hers~lf. Rabbi Dratch stressed that no matter whether the Rallbi disbelieves in what the woman is doing or not, he is n()t to condemn her, for that is the role of God. Next, Hugh Nevin spoke on the Protestant perspective. He reminded the audi~nce . that abortion was a relatively new is:me to modem society. Back, in the time of Adam and Eve, population was not something that w.as desired to be controlled. And it is only recently that surgical techniques became technolo-gically advanced enough for abortion to even he considered by most women as an alternative to an unwanted pregnancy. On that note of consideration, he explained that each sector of Protestantism had its own beliefs, but the overall concensus was no to abortion as means of birth contro·l, and yes when circumstances made it likely that the mother or child would be risking their lives. As in Judaism, the various Protestant churches did not have a cut and dry explanation for what constituted a \risk\. Last by choice, came Fataher Joslin. Working at .Ellis Hospital, Father Joslin has come into close contact with women deciding whether to have an abortion or not. He said he has also seen premature newborns being saved by modern technology, and newborns of approximately the same age being aborted by the very same technology literally on the same floor. It is this paradoxa! situation that has Academic Opportunities at Union By LISA CHERANDE . Skimming over the Pre- Registration packet, you may have noticed that there Is. a section of co11rses which fall under the category ofAcademic Opportunity Program. You may have also· wondered what exactly is this opportunity that you have ·been missing out on your past few years at Union. Chances are that if you are not aware of this educational assistance program, you probably do not fit the criteria college) and the potentLal to succeed here, but who might not normally be accepted through the regular applic:ation process. Both the Union Admissions Office and the New York ··· State Educa-tion Department actively recuit in the highschools and at C()i[ege fairs. To bring the pote11tial applicants here to Unio11, the A.O.P. and the Admis~ions Office sponsors a Miruo.rity Weekend every year. The .program help1; its students adjust to. colleg1C life by offering financial aid, private counseling 1 and tutorial services. In the summer boefore the freshman year, the stu-dents are also offered six week enrichment courses in chemistry, and writing. so that in the fall they are able to register for regular courses. Overall, the program has been quite successful at Union. The retention rate is high and the number of students in the program has tripled. The current freshman class includes thirty students. More importantly, the students in the program are doing well in their classes. Director Wanda Torres has found that the students in . the program are extremely · motivated, and is proud of their ·ror this unique, selective program, since the AD.P. and the A4missions 'Office work very hard to see that students who do qualify are not overlooked when applying to . this college. - computers, calcul:11s, , achievement:· 'The st11dent's hard work adds to tbe success of the program.\ Unquestionably, she and the A.O.P. staff are making academic opportunities. at Union easier and easier. The Academic Opportunity Program is a joint .program of Union College and the ;New York State Higher Edu£ation Opportunity Program. It was designed t() he1p highly motivated and academically talented students from inner city public schools have the opportunity for a coll~ge eduCation at . a private institution like Union. The program, sponsored. by most <Jf the ptivate colleges in New York State, offers academic and financial assistance. It seeks to recruit the top students e>f public high schools, in New York City, Rochester, Syracuse, and otber utban areas who indicate a strong interest in Union (or some other WINTERFEST 1989 T -SHl RT DESIGN CO: NT EST Entries· due by January t 6 in the Student Activities Office Winterfest: February 10,1 t and 12, 1989 made him more sellSiti ve to the moral dilemmas facing women. Though he is in complete agreement with ·the Catholic Church· that abortion violates the Fifth· Com.mandmen t 11 1'hou shall not lill\ he does not condemn the women who are considering abortion. He feels it is ·his position to help women during times of crisis by e~plaining alternatives and supporting them in their ultimate decision. \Just because I am the only Cathot:ic in the room who pr<~etices birth control\ (abstinence) he joked, II it is not my position to condemn the rest of the world for not doing so:.\ The tloor was tllen open for · further questions. The usual questions abeut which trimester was considered II okay\ and what constituted \physical and psychological harm\ to the mother, what to do in cases in rape and incest, ancl cases where ·the baby was known to have some sort of fataldisease were asked quite often. The three representatives sto<Jd strong on their original posi ti<Jns, but seemed flexible in their reinforcement tllat it is a personal decision in which no religious figure has the right to judge. The other interesting question that came up was how establisb.ed . religion has the right to mettle in the personal affairs of a secular country. In other words, how can religious groups try to take away the right for a woman to have an abortion when women are still going to do it even if it is not legal. Then, not only will it be happening illegally, but under shadier medical standards. Father Joslin said that because of his personal beliefs he believes that the country should make abortion illegal, but that he would not want to see women being hurt by such a law. The abortion panel proved to be a great success and highly informative for those considering abortion an issue they will be voting on November 8. But as the panelists displayed, abortion will be an issue long after the 1988 elections for religious leaders as new issues ·surrounding the \exception to the rule cases\ arise. As for the panel here at Union-if the world's leaders behave more like Friday evening's panelists, then perhaps there would be more peace and understanding of differing views in the world. A Small Group of lfghly Motivated People Thank You Ey KARA MERRILL On behalf of SP AA (Students for Political Awareness and Action), I· would like to tl!ank all the students, faculty and administration who have made this term such a successful one for us. SPAA kicked off the term on September 26 witll A.medcan Phtures, a documentary on racism produced by Jacob Holdt. American Pictures drew about 250 people and, believe it or not, they were mostly students! This was the largest group of students that I have ever seen gathered at Union for an educational forum. Articles and editorials concerning racism are still appearing in the Concordiensis six weeks later. ln fact, so mu:cb interest was expressed concerning racism that we joined BLAS in bringin~ Tony Harris to campus on October 27 for a full-blown workshop on the topic. Meanwile, we sponsored a \Know Your Candidate Nigllt\ on October 19. B. Donald Ackerman of the New York State Democratic Committee and Republican Michael Saccocio spck:e on the platforms and c:ampaigns of presidential hopefuls Dukakis and Bush. This event also had a great turnout -- approximately lOOpeople. We're currently wrapping up this term with an Oxfam fast, which has enjoyed much support from the college community. Oxfam is a non- profit, non-sectarian organization which aids in famine relief and developmental programs in third world countries. This year's donations will benefit programs in Vietnam and Kampuchea (Cambodia), and will include money from over 640 meals which Union students have given up. Once again, thanks to all who have participated in these programs. We hope to have many more for you next term under our veteran chairperson, Deb Lucey; and our new chairperson, Alan, who was elected last Sunday. We'll miss. Melanie Masterson, our current chairperson who will be baking in the Mexican sun winter term. She has been a faithful servant of SP AA. Good luck everyone with your exams! Some food for thought for vacation: \Don't ever let anyone tell you that a small group of highly motivated people cannot bring about change: Indeed, that is the only way change does come about.\

\. . ; Page 8. CONCQRDIENSJS November 1(), 19~8 THE ANNUAL FUND would like to . · thank thi·s faU's student phonathon commi.ttee for their help in making this fall's phonathon a success! Ed Stevens M.J. Conley, Judy Bruhn IIana Klein Steve Han Josh Waldman Kim Quirk Cindy Silverio Liz Wallach Liz Josephson R.J. Donohue Br.itish Invasion: Different Beat T he British are. coming, with rnu~ic, when Schenectady Symphony Orchestra brings you renowned violinist Toby Appel playing tbe William Walton concerto; the soloists of Opera Excelsior to sing the best ofGilb:ert & Sullivan, and Edward Elgar's popular \Enigma\ Variations. Forget about Paul Revere: celebrate the mother country with a fiddle, a riddle and some fast-paced taradiddle. The Schenectady Sympbony Orchestra Thursday, November 17 at 8 p.m. Proctor's Theatre· Tickets on sale at Proctor's box office, CBO outlets, Dromc Sound and aU suburban Carl Oxnpany llores. For group rate1, call 372-2.500. ThiJ progmn has been funded by lhe NYS Ccuncil of the AilS and Schenectady County LlFI' FWJd. THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER STUDY IN OXFORD, ENGLAND . Academic Program Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington Intemalio11al Studies Center {WISC) to retommcnd qualified students to study for one yea;- or for on~ or two terms. Lower JWlior status is required; and graduate study is available. Students arc directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this ·is Nar a. program conducted by a U.S. college in Oxforcl. Oxford colleges are accn;:dited by the U.S. Dept. of Erlucation to accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Multi-national student housing and social activities arc qffered, .and cultural tours .are conducted by WISC. A special sununer session is diJ:ected by WlSC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, D.C. Pre-professional Progra:II). .The Washington International Studies Center offers 5ummer int~rnships with Congress, wi!h·thc- . White House, with lhe Il)cdia and with think tanks. Government and Journalism co~cs are taught by senior-level government nfficials, who arc ltlso s.:holats, and by experienced joimialiSIS. All · . college students with a 3.0 GPA or above are· eligible. Por further Information.. please write or call: WRSC The Washington International StucUes Center 214 Massachusetts Ave .. N.E. Sulte 230 Washington, .D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275 EO I AA ,, Ph£ :Delta Theta's :Best .R.oom on Campus Con;test Winners SINGLE/TAI.PLE/SUJTE 1ST-JIM CIRINCION.E .2ND-.- DONALD ARN'OLD 1 DOUBLE _ 1ST--TYRONE FOSTER & DWIGHT PIERRE 1ST-LORlE ANDERSON & J.ESSICA I;ISENSUAG GREEK ROOM tST-· ZETA BETA lAU 2ND- :KAP.PA SIGMA FACULTY OFFICE tST-J,IM McCORD 2ND---'DONALD THtJ,RSTON DONATORS- T\.lan Nguyen, Jay Moosecrack, Lil Tan, Bill Boyd, Prof. Prosp;er, Perter Cowles, Tyrone Foster. Dara Tuckfelt, Andy Taylor, Melissa Klein, Mike Zeller, Carol McCord, Karen Schaeffer, Loria Anderson; Leonie Robinson, leslie Shapiro, Nini Mehta, Ezra: Sherman, Barb Stastny, Lal!lra Justus, Dwight 'Pierre, Robert Friedman; Dav.e Weissman, Kristen Fifield, Rob Vleck, Donald Thurston, Aaron R Han, Jessica .Eisenburg, Bill Amsden, Usa J<Jdben, Joe Murphy, Andrew Lech~ :Michele Mor.deno, NehaGajjar, Lisa Cherande, Mike Weiss, RLith Wallberg, Stacey·- ·. Papa, Jim McCord, Tracy Mischio, Hari·aezwada, Prof. Styles. · EASTERN NEW YORK SECTION, INC. AMERICAN CHEf01CAL SOCIETY NOVEMBER 1988 SECTION MEE::TING Wednesday, ~overnber 16 UniGn, College, Schenectady., · NY. LOWELL J. LEVINE, DDS- Directo.r, Forensic Sciences Unit,- New Yor.k St~te Police, Division Headquarters, Albany, tJew York IHE IDENTIFI:CATION Of DR. MENGELE Social Hour: 6 pm Hale House. Lower Lounge Sponsored by Union's Dept of Chemistry Dinne~: 7 pm Hale House Dining Room Ve.al· Francaise $13;00 · '\' - - Busin~s meeting and Lecture 8 pm College .ce.nt~r Allditbrium Please call or send dinner reservation to: Chris Simmons New York State Police Crime Laborat()ry B~;~ilding #22, State Campus Albany, NY 12226 Phone(&te) 457- 1231 Deadline for reservations, Thursday, November tO, 1988. Cancallations after Monday, November 14 will be invoiced. ... Reservations are not necessary to attend the business meetl.ng Gr the talk. ANWAR SAD.A·T PEACE LECTURE Tho mas Friedman, Pulitzer Pri,ze Winner and New York ·Times Reporter 'iThe Middle East in the Mind of Ameri,ca\ f\Ar. Friedman was Beirut Bl:lreau Chief forthe NY Times. He spent 26 months cCJvering events in lebanon, including the Sabra and Chatilla massacre, the American embassy and 1'\tlarine bombings, . the PlO split an<! the Israeli withdrawal from Beirut. He is currently writing a book called from Berur to Jerusalem. lr1 January 1989 he will become Chief Diplomatic CorrespondE;lntittr the New York Times based in Washington. · · MONDAY, NOVEMBER ·14,1989 . MEMORIA~ CHAPEL 8:00 PM . . A RECEPTION WILL FOLLOW IMMEOIATELY AFTER IN OLD eHAPE·L . _Discount Days SALE NOVEMBER 14t~, 15tll & 16th Noon to 9 p.m. Great styles and super ~avililgs .. Free consultations with every cut. . Precision Haircut & Style · Only $1.2 R9GIS HAIRSTYLISTS :· ;.,;. ····•·• ;.· ... :· ·=·· .:• :· :--:·:-.·. •

I CONCORDIENSJS November 10,. 1988 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD 9y SHELLEY SZYMKO Sol,Jrce: Wall StreEt Jour.nal -(11/1•1 t/7) Tlie Philippines: Imelda ~e~tcos. pleaded innocent to f.eder;U charges that ·she and c:'Jeposed Philippihe leader ~areas .looted Manila's treasury. She .faces a five million dollar bail,. • and willnot be allowedto retum't<l H~waii until details of the bail ' have been worked out. At the· moment, her husband's arraignment hasbeendelayedi()t medical r~asons. Israel: Arab residents have bEE!n barred from· entering or leaving Israel in an attempt tl} pr&vent violence during the • national election. This- action has taken place due to Israeli . soldiers sealing .off ~he West Earnk: and Gaza_ Strip. . Afghanistan: The prime mir~ist'er of Afghanistan is to visit the U.N. this week in hope that the U.N. General Assembly will .. adopt a •resolution welcoming tile Soviet trop withdrawal from · · . Afghanistan. Moscow stated th;at Premier Sharq could be a compromise figure ir:l· a new$abul regime. Afghan rebels will · . also send a representative to, 1he world body. . Poland: Poland plans to close Gdansk's Lenin shipyard, the birthplace of the. Solidarity mo'4>'ement. The closing will take . place on December 1'. Newly appointed P.rime Minister· . Rakowski has vowed to .eJimlnate unproducti~e and inefficient .. enterprises. He is a longtime iCi& •of the banned trade. union ... Solidarity founder tech Walestt said the government's decision . would cause ''tet~sion and conflicts\ in' Poland. He vvill fight the move, which he has called \Ral<owski 1 s personalprovocation.'' Lebanon: .A videotape of U.S_ journalist Terry Ant:lerson has . been ·releas.!=ld by Moselem kidnappers in Beirut. In the tape, · , Anderson accused the Re~agan ttdministration ofpreventir:~g his release. He urged the next pre.sident to end the plight of captives .. Anderson further cOirn_mented that Bush had dealt with terrorists in \the Iran-Contra. affair and TWA hijacking\ in 1985.. . . Geneva: U.N.-mediated peace talks in Geneva were rsumed by Iran and Iraq without any ~>igrt of progress on the main dispute over where to draw th~ ·common border, A :truce of the Persian Gulf war occurred in August, but neither country has budged on cla,ims over the <:ontrol of the Shatt ai-Arab waterway. ~ By PRIMA VERA SALVA ARVIDE Para bailar la Bamba se necesita una poca . de grada y otra •COSita... . I'm sure that at the end of Winter term, you will be able to dance and sing the original version of la :Samba. and many other Mexican songs that you will know. The popular music is ju'st one of the varied cr-eative expressions of Mexican culture. Y GU will find that Mexican traditions and customs are as wi(ie and diverse as shown by craft. regional customs, oral traditions (like legends), gastronomy, popular celebrations, religious festivities, and many other manifestations that if they are carefully watched, can reveal the spirit of this nation. Mexico,. since remote times, has been known in the world as a country with enormous natural wildlife, such a:. forests, deserts, beaches, ........................................................... ' ........... ·~ /\ '-. THE FESTIVAL OF NAl'IOI\IS P~rticipor.ls: • Argentina • Armenia • China • Fre11ch Canada ·• Germany • Hungary • l11dia • Indonesia • ·Israel . • lithuania • P'olis1an • Poland • RtJssio •' &andinovia e !ipain • Syria • Ukraine • United Stales 17tl1 ANNUAL FESTIVAL OF NA liONS ' SUNDAY 1 NOVEMBER l3, 1988_ . 12:00 Noon-6:00P.M. EMPIRE STATE PLAZA · Albony; New YQril PERFORMANCE • FOOD t CRAFTS ·GENERAL AOMISSION ADULTS !2.00 CHilDREN iS· I Sl S 1.00 fREE PIIRKII/G .................................................................... , ..... . LANG:UAGE. TABLES FRENCH· MCJn. 12:45 - 1 :45 SPANISH· TuEs. 1 1 :45 • 12:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN· Wed. 12:45-1:45 ITALIAN .. Thllrs. t t :45 - i 2:45 JAPANESE • Mon. 12:45 -1 :45 • All Language Tables will be in the College Genter Upperclassmen's Dining HaJL..Anyone not o the meal plan can buy lunch downstairs ir1 the Pub and bring it up or \brown llag.'d it INTERNATIONAL FEATURES FR.ENCH MOVIE \La CHEVRE\ by Francis Weber with · G_erard Depardieu and Pierre Richard Monday, November i9 at 7:30pm CC Room 406 ALL 393-0697 -----· iiliiliriiiiiil-iiili{ll_ ----·· ---- ii L--~------- ' ju.11gle, etc, that mixed with its calture, confum it as a place where the mysticism and the real come together. Cuemavac.a, the city where you. are going to spend a study term, is· located south from Mexico City, and it has received the name, \City of the Eternal Spring\ due to its pleasant climate and varied A vegetation. Since the Spanish Conquist until nowadays, this dty has been elected by the .b.habitants of the country's c~pital (Mexico City) as a typical summer and weekend :place. While you are in Mexico, you should try: To visit museums (Anthrophology, Modem Art, History, Wax) in Mexico City. - To visit Cuemavaca's surroundings (Tepostlan, Zempoala's lagoons, Taxco, Caves of the Estrella). - To attend typical and religious festivities in the small towns. - To study in a warm winter with sunny days. - To go to a Mariachi's place to sing and dance with them. - To eat Mexican snacks (don't be afraid, they are not as hot as they look) such as: chalupas, sopes, carnitas, tamales, esquites o quesadillas. As introduction to your Mexican experience I will show for you a film with the most interesting places to visit in Mexico. Come and join me this. Friday, the 11th of November, Room 010, Social Sciences Bu.ilding, at 4:00 p.m. I will be very happy to Since you have this great ()pportunity to study and Jive ill another country, I would s11ggest you to learn as much \ as possible about its culture. Getting to know a new culture rnakes you value it as well as y()ur own culture. Moreover, Mexico is an underdeveloped country and part of the Latin Viorld; its culture is totally different from industrialized cc>Untries, like European countries or the United States. . answer any questions that you · might have. MOVIE PRESENTATION OF MEXICO BY PRIMAVERA SALVA ARVIDE Friday, November 11 at 6:00 pm in Social Sciences Room, 010 International Question of the Week \What would you do with 1 million dollars?\ By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS Lori Kaplan 89-1 would buy my way to be the head ()f physi~al plant and regulate the heat in the dorms (especially Potter) therefore saving more than a million. Lina Leong 90-1 would purchase my own Mwspaper with nothing but personals in it. Nicolas Boch 90-l'd buy an air:line and a telephone company. I'd have free tickets and no phone bills, lmagir.ae the savings. Jason Mshnlck 91-l'd buy as many Ferraris as possible. The rest would pay for insurance. Laszlo Borozky-Open an international school in l-lu·ngary. Joseph Corrigan 89-l'd buy 500,000 copies of this month'S SPIN magazine. Darren Binder 9()-...-Buy the election for Dukakis ... Paul lzbicki 89--l~d put $5000.00 in a high interest account, and gamble the rest. What have 1 got to lose. Anthee-Actually I really don't think that the amount is so great.

'· . Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS November· 10, 1.988 THE BUSINESS SECTION Am:eri,ca·n·s ·React to a 'Hard Sell' Approach By KIM QUIRK In my last year at Union College, I am faced with the word dreaded most by se11iors •.. THESIS. The trend seems to be to contemplate a topic for 10 weeks in the Fall; avoid one's chosen advisoi for another 5 weeks in the Winter, and then be faced with a serious month of stress toward tbe end of winter. Ever since the day sophomore year when I declared my major as Economics and Art, I was told to start considering how I was goi11g to relate the two majors in my thesis. My advisors and peers found humor in such an endeavor, and antiCipated my anxiety senior year. To myself, the concept of 'advertising' seemed logical. 'As a result of studying at Kansai Gaidai University in Osaka, Japan, last year; I have chosen to incorporate my experiencesilnd knowledge ·of Japan into my senior thesis. While in Japan for the year, I was able to create a network of contacts in many differe11t fields, and as a result, interviewed with many 'Introduction of Television into the Advertising Industry, Comparing the United. States and Japan.\ D.tte to the fact that this title cannot be clearly enunciated or even expressed within several long breaths, my final title mnst· be more concise. Within the limits of my thesis, I platl to discuss the historical· development of the American and Japanese advertising industry, demonstrating the structural and cultural differences, as well as similarities in the two markets. The Yapanese people are often observed . as homogeneous and definitely foreign to most westerners. Especially in advertising, general assumptions are made categorizing the Japanese culture as unfathomably different and tllerefore beyond the realm of understanding for Ameris;ans. I intend to familiarize readers witb the Japanese culture; its traditions and way of thinking. the time of its introduction in the 1950's. I will investigate these results for both industries, and contrast the implications far each. For the purpose of gathering additonal data for the the Japanese industry, especially statistical data, I will be returning ,to Jap·an over Winter Break; J will gather data by utilizing company librari.es and interviewing executives ·.in the companies. This research :has been made possible by the partial funding of the International Education F<mndation;. a committee that I wo-11Id like to extend my gratitude. · . So, with my thesis orals either today or tomorrow, the first pressures of the dreaded THESIS are felt Just one half ht>ur interview; a few specific questions by them, a few vague answers by us. That's all it takes. For all of those people who are grabbing for a topic or substantial information to present, tell your interviewer that you have to tie up a few loose ends in the Orient or Eutope; you'll bave the data at the beginning of NEXT term ... I'm hoping it will work forme. - ·The Department of Physics and Histoey of Unio11 College Present: .·· MATHEMATICS, ETHIC,S AND BALLISTICS IN- THE 16TI-l. CENTURY. Profess()r Andreas Kl~in.ert _ University of Hamburg, Federal German .. R~pu.blic, and Smith C<>llege, Northh:ampton, Massachusetts In the 16th cen.~ury, some mathematicians aimed to · increase the -ef'fe~tiveness of artillery. Tartaglia's • ·ideas concern:iag: kinematics and d:ynarnics a-re charactE)ristic oi the transition frcm medieval to modern science, and although his theol'ies had no substantial effee.t cOn the practice ()f..gunn:ery; he was . one of the fiTst s<Jientists to feel scrn.ple~ about doing scientific resea:rell fol' military p11r,poses. Daniel · Santbech has ofte:n been considered b_y .bistorians as · a retrograde Aristotelian;. because .of the :quaintness of-. · woodcuts illustrating the book he :published in 1561. A · careful look at tile te~t shows that be l:l.ad some vezy • modem ideas e~nc:eJ:ning the true path of a projectile, · and that his illustrations we\ie mathematie:al · approximations . Tather than .. illusbations oi .his physical beliefs .. (:illustrated. with transpareneies} FRIDAY;. 11 NOVEMBER 1988 REFI:lESHMENT.S 8:30 LECTURE 3:45 STEINMETZ 106 advertising companies. At companies such as Dents11, Hakuhodo, and Dai.ko, I gathered · basic hiSt<>rical information! and statistical data. So now I had a major of Economics and Art, and a ton of information on the system of Japanese Advertising. My focus eventually narrowed to television media, and my· \general\ topic is \The Economic Effects of the For example, . Japanese people prefer a different type of advertising than that which appeals to the American consumer. The Japanese respond to commercials which ate mood or em<>ti()n oriented, while Ameticms seem to react to a 'hard sell~, product quality approach. . The statistical work is derived from tlle interactiQn of a total advertising variable to su~h factors as GNP, population, personal spending, and number of TV sets which are owned I v.rant to determine the effect that television had upon the advertising industry at Investment Club Activity In the Ma.rket ·WANT TO WORK AND STUDY IN LONDON THIS SUMMER1 F .I .. T. Offers Marketing and Communication Students An Opportunity To Intern Jn U.K. New York -- J uniot and senior college st1ldynts, who are majoring in Marketing or Comunications, have an opportunity to work and study in London this summer and titus enrich their career opportunities. The program is a collaborative effort between the Fashion Institute of TechjJ.Qlogy, here, and Middlesex, largest of tlte United Kingdom's prestigious Polytechnics, located on an English country parl: <:ampus, just 30 minutes from central London. The· five-'week session includes seminars, t11totials, and internships in marketing communications. matket research, public relations, advertising, broadcasting, business journalism and publishing. Last summer, students interned in British communications companies sucli as: Thames Television, the National Trust, English Heritage Foundation, C()nfederation of British Industry, Marketing Week (Centaur Comm11nications), the Globe Theatre, Majesty. Magazine, Bloomsbury Publishing, and Harcollrt, Brace, Jovanovich. Students planning <:areers in business jo11malism, public relations, advertising, marketing. international trade, broadcasting and publishing will enhance the;, career and employment opportu11ities by taking advantage of this unique British educational experience, Dr. Arthur Winters, Chainnan, F.I.T.' Advertising and Marketing CommunicatiQrts Department, stated. Total cost for tuiticn, private room on campus and meal plan is $2,400 plus airfare. Tile course, offe.ring 7.5 college credits, starts July 8, and ends August 11. Inquiries should be made to Dr. Winters at the Fasllion Institute of Technology, 227 West 27th Street, N~w York, NY 10001. Telephone: (212) 760-7705. . By STEVEN SCHEICHET Last week the Investment Club held its first. organizational meeting. New members were welcomed and. the structure of the club was introduced. The main purpose of the club is to manage the assets of tlte portfolio but within that objective several committees were set up to aid in formulating a strategy for the current market conditions. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, a weighted average of 30 industrial stocks, seems to be caught in a narrow trading range between 2000 and 2180 since the crash on October 19, 1987. Thus, most investors are not excited about the prospects of a market upswing.· The investment ·club was fortunate .t<> liquidate during the week before the crash and has remained only partially invested in the market since the crash. 9urrently, the portf\olio consists of utility issues since they produce income. In the event th~t· the issues perform poorly, price wi~e, a gain could still be realized if the income outweighs the price decline of :the security. A year has passed since ·the crash and the . club believes along with many other investors that it is time to reinvest in the market but with !I different attitude towards the complexities of investing. During tlte bull market before the crash many stock market investors made discussio11 with the bmkerwho substantial profits b:y trading executes the trades, a macro securities in and 011t cf an view of the economy and account, primarily :becuase , prop<;>sals from club members stock prices only kept · fo:r specifil! stock .purchases. increasing. Many rnll11ages. are With th.e election behind the now having to re-evaluate their market~ .evett though the past strategy of eas)' .trading market sholll<lhave discounted and look for long term the -cut<lome base·d on potential b~cause the objective predictions~ the disappearing of the club is not to determine marketj itters tbat occuned-last whether the club call trade week willle~ve investors to securities well b11t :tattler on concentrate ott the econo-my. Which companies w'iU show The jobless figure of 5.3%, growtti and produce higher which w~ released last week · sharaeholder wealth. 1'bis is was- lower than expected, not to say that if a stock is in~icates a .strong econo-my. undervalued and is a l!argain The ec()llomy- could be saW to .. price that the club will not buy be operaUng at fu.ll the security or to say tllat the employment -since the job less club will not wait to get a figure is at a 14 year all time good price for a:purcllase. Once· low. Tltis llas prompted fears a company is · selected for of inflati():n an({ higher interest investment, a tradmg ran:ge for rates. Tltese factors are some of the transaction -will be . the considerations that the examined in order'oo execute a investment club will be trade at a fair price. · evaluati11g itt formulating an The club meeting ne::l\t week investrne!t~strategy. will have on its llgltln~a a · 1988. YEARBO·OKS are now on sale in Mrs. Mal'ra's office, 4th~ Floor College Center .. The cost· is $25.00 payable by cash Or' check. Get one while supplies last. Order- your 1989 book now at a .special :price. The Gamet

'! CO.NCORDIENSIS Novem!Jer 10, 1988 Page 11 BUSINESS S·ECTION . - .. - .. Collegiate Investment . .Challenge By ·LAURA A. IACOVlELLO On November 1, 1988 twenty-five students from across the United States began \the most realistic blll!!iness contest -ever.\ - · The AT & T First Annual InvestmentChallenge, invented by Timothy A. DeMello, founder and President of the Wall Stre.et Games, is sponsored by AT & T. Dow .Jones & Company,, Reebok lnternatiollal, Bulova Watch Company, and the B~amas Ministry of Tourism.. It was designed ·to give students the opportunity to participate· in four months of excitement and intense competition in t~e financial markets. To qualify, students studying for undergraduate or graduate - degr~es at accredited two-y~ar and four-year colleges ami universiti.es needed to pay $49.95 in order to receive an official entry form and game packet The registration for .this competition closed c:m October 20. On Novem:b~r l the ttading began. The process of making trades into your $500,000 portfolio is much like real life trading. Students call a toll-free number that connects them directly to brokers on the trading desk. Trade options include buying or selling stocks on a cash basis, buying or selling .stocks on margin (which increases the initial value of the portfolio to $1,000,000), and selling short stocks. The object of tlie Challenge is to~buy and sell any of the $GOO stocks listed in the Stock Guide in an. attempt to maximize the value of the fictitious $500,000 · account over four rnonths. On February . 28 tracling ends and the top ~n students who have achieved the highest portfolio· values will receive over $200;ooo in cash prizes, as well as a trip to New York City. and a vacation trip to the Bahamas. The Challenge also. has a professor division although they do not qualify for any of the prizes awarded to the student division. The challenge was brought to Union College by the Investment CJ\lb. Fifty Union students are participating, and therefore q11alify for month1y prizes. Mi crocam puter:/Terminal Availability The last week of classes is a busy time fot the microcomputer and tem'linal rooms. If you are unable to fmd an open system, review the li1>t of locations, maybe there is a free terminal in another lab. The following, is a listQfmicrocomputer and temlinai' lo-cations on Campus: 10 6 4 10 4 4 2 20 ~ 10 Zenith Tenninals Zenith. Terminals Zenith Terminals Tektronix Terminals Zenith Terminals Zenith Tenniilals Zenith Terminals IBM PS/2 50Z's Macintosh SE's 3rd floor library Butterfield 102 Butterfield 104 Graphics Lab Graphics Lab Expre~s Room Lib All Nite Study Stei.nrnetz 110 Steinmetz 100 * Go to Security for late night access. (9pm•8am) ** Restricted hours are posted on th~ door Library Hours Restricted*\' Restri-cted** 24 Hours* 24 Hours* 24 Hours* 24 Hours* 24 Hours:* · 24 Hours* All Tenninals and microcomputers listed are connected to the GARNet/UC to enable you to access th.e VAX Cluster. The micrcx;,omputer listed use KERMIT to access the VAX. Instructions in the use of KERMIT to access the VAX are present in the labs. Since the beginning of the fall term, we have been compiling statistics in the IBM PS/2 room. The historgra.m shown represents the number of application startups at different hours of the day (i.e .• traffic in the room). If you were looking for a quiet time to u~e the room, it wouldrl't be between l2-4pm. Application Start~ps by Hour of Day · .(IBM Lab 9/9/88 to 10/4/88) ecio.r\\Num=~\:c...c' o:._:f e=pp_..:-:llce=llon\'-'s-=-lar=tuP.\'---'---------, llOO -- · · 400 .......... ' 200 ....................... d .. : ... .. .. 1 .................... . . I : ' ,' , : . . . . 0 1 2 s 4 5 e 1 e elo 1112: 1 2 ii ~ & tl 7. 8 g 10 n I AM I PM I Time of Day If you have any questions about public tetminal/microcomputer locations on campus, please contact Computer Services at 370-6293. SERVICING· REP AIR OVERHAULING . This Week • Ill the Market By ANTHONY E. VRONDISSIS (Excerpts: Wall Street Journal) RJR NABISCO THREW the biddin,g for the the company wide open and gave suitors until the end of next week to submit sealed offers. A board committee will consider a range of options, including selling the entire company or parts of its tobacco and food operations. The board's move wrests control of the bidding fro.m two suitors, an RJR management group and Kohlberg Kravis. TWA Chairman Carl Icahn said he is looking to acquire another airline as rumors filled Wall Street that he is seeking to sell part or all of TWA. Icahn recently broke off talks of a possible acquisition with Eastern. Stock and bond prices fell amid pre- election jitters and continued worries that the unexpectedly robust economy will bring higher inflation and interest rates. The Dow Jones industrials closed off 21.16 points, at 2124.64. The dollar drifted lower. Oil prices are expected to remain within a trading range of $13 to $14 .25 a barrel uritil OPEC begins gathering in Vienna Nov. 17. Oil traders already are . speculating about the prospects for a new production-sharing accord. The U.S. ~conomy is stronger than many had expected, reviving fears of higher . i~ation and interest rates. The jobless rate fell to 5.3% in October, a 14-year low. Also, purchasing agents said the economy surged last month after a three-month drop. ....._ . MERCEDES BENZ • BMW AUDI • V.W. • HONDA MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE, INC. \ MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (518) 377-2268 (24 HR. TOWING ... 374-1067) 349 ANTHONY STREET SCHENECTADY, NY 12308 •

Page 12 CONCORDI.ENSIS November 10, 1988 Founded at Union College 1877--- Changes Necessary This past Monday night, 5 deans· met with members of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students. The students voiced many of the concerns of- minority students at Union. Hopefully the administration will respond, not be succumbing to \demands but rather taking some of the valuable input offered and using it to help make Union more attractive to and advantageous for minority students. The College owes it to its students and itself to meet some of the needs of its minority. students. Many students expressed tremendous \culture shock\ and felt that the College did little in helping them adjust. Some complained that there were no available faculty that could relate to them and devote enough time to listening to them, others spoke about self-esteem problems stemming from a lack of sensitivity and minority faculty role models. As .one student put it \We need to see black professors and administrators, not just blacks working in the dishroom.\ Changes take time, but the College must realize that its lackings in this area are serious. Improvement is not only advantageous, it is necessary. A Look Inward As the first term ofthe 1988-89 academic year comes to a close, -the last issue of Concordiensis has been to print and now finds itself in your hands. 1988 has been a volatile year for Union. Most of the outstanding events that make up this calendar year are due to the student body. Concordiensis was there all along to cover them. Most upperclassmen will remember the pornography • debate that precipitated winter term. What about the proposed cut in 'skellar hours last spring. Not only did Concordiensis cover the issues, Concordiensis provided the medium through which students offered their opinions. Many other issues were raised that are still being debated such as the viability of the greek system at Union and abroad. · Concordiensis also offers campus entertainment as well as informative coverage of general interest events. Feature articles, arts and entertainment, sports, campus news and personals, international features coverage, and the new business section all offer dimensions to these aspects of the paper. This year has also seen a dramatic change in the appearance of the paper. With the new front page, Concordiensis hopes to make a stronger statement on cainpus issues. Wider coverage of these issues offer opportunities to provide more information to the community. The Concordiensis board and staff encourages our readers to continue their support through letters to the editors, student and faculty participation, and comments on the content and format of weekly issues. Come up to the offices Tuesday evenings as we start off the 1989 calendar year, and see if you are interested in joining o~ efforts. LETTERS The Power of Choice To ,the Editor: I fully realize that what I am about to say is a gross generalization. However, I speak not for any political organization, the Young Republicans, the Young Democrats, nor, for tht matter, even the politically attuned of society. I speak for the young American of average political awareness, in short, the voter· 18-25 years old. With this in mind, please take my. conclusion with a grain of salt, or a second helping of lima · . beans, if you please. Mine is a story of childhood. \Honey what would you like for your dinner vegetable this evening, spinach or lima beans?\ \Gee Mom,. thanks anyway, I'm really beat so· I think I'll bit tlle hay early. I'm not really hungry anyway. Good night.\ What the hell was Mom thinking anyway. Th~nk heavens for the power of choice. The following weekend ... \Honey we're .going over to Aunt Betty's, house for ~ the evening. Would you like to come along, or should we call the sitter for you:?'' \Well actually, Mom, Bill just called and asked if I could stay over at his house this evening. They',re having a shunber party or something.\ Wake up Mom. Catch :me dead going over to Betty's and - gosh - a babysitter, be still my beating heart. I'm outta here. Thank heavens for the power of choice. Later that same year ... \Hey bud, I told- you awhile ago that by- the end of this week r wanted you to either mow the lawn or paint the side porch. What's it going to be?\ · \Listen Dad, I've got a major test in :history tom~rrow arid I've really got to crack tl\e books.\ Wow, that was dose. Now just where did I put Julie'.s phone number?· Thanlc heavens for the .power ·Of chojce. Some years later... It's November 8? 1988. Ask yourself why probably more than 50% of eligible ·18-25.., year olds will choose not to vote. bo you: blame us? Respectfully submitted, Joseph B. Corrigan '89 Pleas_e, More Positive Action· To the Editor: Last Friday, we on the Union campus learned of Dylan Kelley's death. Most of us did not learn the news the right way. Many heard it on the news, or from off-campus sources. As members of this commu.nity, students should have been informed sooner and from the administration, not strangers. When the administration heard, they shoald have immediately told the Resident Advisors to hold emergency floor meetings to discuss and inform the floor aboat what happened. Dylan was special to many people, yet the administration did not send 011t the brief note about Dylan until three full days after the school was informed. The only positive action LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL.LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST B.E TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORD! ENS IS OFFICE BY 4:00PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEI;DIN.G WEEKLY . ISSUANCE OF · CONCOHDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE _HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. taken by the administration was the Memorial Service. The ' setvice was handled niCely, The friends who spoke· were very good and started the long way to healing. Su.icide is one of the leading causes of deatli among teenagers and adolescents. It affects people in many cUfferent ways, and. everybody has to overcome the shock their own way. The services offered for counseling at Union may help, but they were not even publicized until Wednesday. Many students., in the meantime, did not know where help could be found. Although time will help · us heal, presently the campus needs assistance to start our lives again. One suggestion that might help us come to terms with this suicide nlight be to hold meetings on campus to discuss ·,suicide and its after effects. The sentiments expressed by the campus c.ommtlnity should be a. · comfort to his friends, but the administrat.ion's inability to handle this situation well detracts'from these feelings. ~ Kate Alqui~t Maggie Brush Amy Dillenbeck Kathy Lawliss Teresa Sanchez

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS November 10, 1988 C!tDltflltbirnsts · \ FoutJi/ed at Ullion Colleg.e f877--- Change'S Necessar·y This past M()nday night, 5 d~ans met with members of the Black and Latim Alliance of Students. The students voiced fllany of the concerns of ·minority studentts at Union. Hopefully the administration w:iiU Jespond, not be succumbing to \demands t.u t rather taking some of the valuable input offere<l ltlld using it to help make Union more attr:aa:tive to and advantageous for minority students. The College owes it to its studeruts and itself to meet some of the needs of its mitHHity students. Many students expressed trememd.()US \culture shock\ and felt that the Colle_g•e did little in helping them acljust. Some complai11ed that there were no avltilable faculty that could relate to them and dev()te enough time t() listening to them, others SJ>Oke about self-esteem problems stemming from a lack of sensitivity ana minority faculty role m()dels. As one stud•ellt }JUt it \We need to see bl2ck professors and .administrators, not just blacks 'V\Iorking in the dislJ.:r()om.\ Changes take time, but the Coll·e15e must realize that its lac kings in this are a are serious. Improveme11t is not only advm:mt.ageous, it is necessary. A Look Inward As the first term of the 1988-8~ a.cademic year comes to a close, the La-st issue of Concordien sis has been to pri11t fln<i now finds itself in your lu11ds. 1988 has beem . .:~ \V()latile year for Union. M<Jst of the outstandiilllg events that make up this ca.lendar year are due to the student body. Conc&Hliensis was there all along to cover them. Most upj>eJcl ass men will 1 1 •emember the pornography debate that prcc:iJJitated winter term. What a.bout the proposed cut in 'skellar hours last spring. Not only did Cuncordiensis cover the issues, Concordiensis; provided the medium throu~h which stude11t~ ()[fered their opinions. Many ()ther issues werre~ raised that are still being clebated such as the viability of the greek system at Union and abroad1. Concor(Ji~nsis also uffers campus entertainment ilS well as informittiive coverage of general interest events. Feature anticles, arts and entertainment, sports, campus news and personals, intemational features coverage, and the new business section all offelT dimensions to these aspects ()fthe paper. This year has also seen a dramCttic: change in the appearance of the paper. With ·the new front page, Concorlliensis hopes to 1111ue a stronger statement on campus issues. Wi<leT coverage of these issues offer opportunities tto Jrovide more information to the community. The Concord iensis boaF~ and staff encourages our readers to continme their support through letters t() the editors, stud>emt and faculty participation, a11d comments on tllice content and format of weelly issues. Come up to 1lle offices Tuesda;r•e'Venrngs as we start off the 19~9 calendar year, (Lnd see if you are interested in joining our effo.mt~. LETTERS The Power of Choice To the Editor: I fully realize that what I am about to say is a gross generalization. However, I speak not for any political organization, the Young Republicans, the Young Democrats, nor, for tht matter, even the politically attuned of society. I speak for the young American of average political awareness, in short, the voter 18-25 years old. With this in mind, please take my. conclusion with a grain of salt, or a second helping of lima beans, if you please. Mine is a story of childhood. \Honey what would you like for your dinner vegetable this evening, spinach or lima beans?\ \Gee Mom, thanks anyway, I'm really beat so I think I'll hit the hay early. I'm not reaHy hungry anyway. Good night.\ What the hell was Mom thinking anyway. Thank heavens for the power of choice. The following k d \H ,. . wee en ... oney, were gomg over to Aunt Betty's ho11se for the evening. Would you like to come along, or should we call the sitter for you?\ \Well actually, Mom, Bill just called and asked if I could stay over at his house this evening. They're having a slumber party or something.\ Wake up Mom. Catch me dead going over to Betty's and - gosh - a babysitter, be stiH my beating heart. I'm outta here. Thank heavens for the power of choice. Later that same year ... \Hey bud, I told you awhile ago that by· the end of this week I wanted you to either mow the lawn or paint the side porch. What's it going to be?\ \Listen Dad, I've got a major test in history tomorrow and I've really got to crack the books.\ Wow, that was close. Now just where did I put Julie's phone number? Thank heavens for the power of choice. Some years later... It's November 8, 1988. Ask yourself why probably more than 50% of eligible 18-25- year olds will choose not to vote. Do you blame us? Respectfully submitted, Joseph B. Corrigan '89 Please, More P·ositive Action To the Editor: Last Friday, we on the Union campus learned of Dylan Kelley's death. Most of us did not learn the news the right way. Many heard it on the news, or from off-campus sources. As members of this community, students should have been informed sooner and from the administration, not strangers. When the administration heard, they should have immediately told the Resident Advisors to hold emergency floor meetings to discuss and inform the floor about what happened. Dylan was special to many people, yet the administration did not send out the brief note about Dylan until three full days after the school was informed. The only positive action LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEE;DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF . - CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. taken by the administration was the Memorial Service. The service was handled nicely. The friends who spoke were very good and started the long way to healing. Suicide is one of the leading causes of death among teenagers and adolescents. It affects people in many different ways, and everybody has to overcome the shock their own way. The services offered for counseling at Union may help, but they were not even publicized until Wednesday. Many students, in the meantime, did not know where help could be found. Although time will help us heal, presently the campus needs assistance to start our lives again. One suggestion that might help u.s come to terms with this suicide might be to hold meetings on campus to discuss suicide and its after effects. The sentiments expressed by the campus community should be a comfort to his friends, but the administration's inability to handle this situation well detracts from these feelings. Kate Alquist Maggie Brush Amy Dillenbeck Kathy Lawliss Teresa Sanchez

.. CONCORDIENSIS November 10, 1988 Page 13 Is Union Prejudiced Ag~inst .ROTC? To the Editor: During the colJ.rSe of this term, the Army ROTC unit Oil campus h~s unsuccessfully attempted to gain classroom space on our campus. Despite the efforts of Major. Vargus, the commanding officer, Union College has continually denied· any type of response to the unit's ;requests. \ We the m~mbers of th.e Delta Battery (Union's Army ROTC unit, currently af'filiated with the Siena College AROTC program), would very much like to become eligible for classroom space, and would like to know what the college's reasoning behind our denial of space is. · The students involved in· the AROTC program are.con~emed that the powers in charge have something against the program. If this is s<>, we would like to know what it is. The RPTC students are only trying to ep.rich their college experience, and at the same time do something for their country. _Classroom space at the necessary times is not a problem, and the AROTC program is very flexible to the college's .schedule. I, as an individual, ain rapidly cQming to the conclusion that the collegeJs prejudiced .agarnst the unit, ·not to mention the other ROTC students in the Navy (including Marines) a11d Air Force branches, who also receive ne recognition from the school •. The large number of Tal)ea Study Break ... unif(!rlllS on campus indicates sufficient support for the program, arid the amount of m-oney the Government. supplies the school through. scholarships are additonal reasons why the administration should consider the uniu' request. We are one of the many groups on campus who need and deserve attention.· In addition, our group has the gutS to be ready to fight for our country. I wonder if the a(\ministration of Union College has the guts to do what is right. Sincerely, Cad R. Friedrich, Jr. 1991 Army ROTC, MS 1/2 P.S. Have a nice day. CILE.GE ·sPEAKDS FORUM ·MIK·E \A cut and a dozen pounds above the rest\ -Chicago Times / presents . _ SULLI.VAN ''Genuinely funny.\ -Miami Herald · TONIGHT * CC AUDITORIU.M * 8:30·9:30 PM * FREE LETTERS ~.Response to Slander To the Editor: conviction,; in fact, diversity is often encouraged. But then This fall, as iit every tenn in again, I must remember that which I have been at Union, I this man is an authority on the have seen a proliferaton of inner workings of fraternities, articles decrying fraternal and on the minds of people institutions. 'Fhe individuals· iitvolved in Greek life. who write these articles seem Many feel that fratemities as to believe that all white, a whole should be abolished lffluent, fraternity 'members are since they are places ·where, in inherently evil, and seek to particular, rape is encouraged subjugate minorities, women, and then covered up. Speaking gays and even violinists. As a for my house and others, to say fraternity member, .I greatly that we would Condone rape is resent these accusations which a horrible accusation and one lack any fact whatsoever in which is utterly without their attempt to sterotpye a foundation. · substantial number of people. Our critics also never seem I am also amused by the to point out our childish statement ·by an . accomplishments; such as the individual in last week's paper, numerous fund raisers to help who seems to feel that when less fortunate individuals;. Phi one joins a fraternity they Gamma Delta's annual blood instantly lose theiT first drive, or Phi Delta Theta's amendmentg rights to free · · sponsoring of a talk on AIDS, speech. .He is basically or Delta Delta Delta's run for accusing fraternities of being cancer, just to name a few. groups of mindless individuals Fraternities also provide an which go along with the atmosphere for many non- \majority\ opinion, and which alcohol related functions and, are unable to voice any dissent perhaps most important of all, against this megalithic they provide a house in which monster of their: fraternity. individuals in common can live Never once in my experience as together. a brother of a fraternity have I seen an instance when someone was not allowed to express their opinion or was treated with disrespect due to their Sincerely. Jack Markis.; proudly a Theta Delt \Eskimo\ Studies? · To the Editor: - As an Aleut, I deeply resent Professor Faye Dudden's insensitivity about my ancestry and my culture. The White People introduced alcohol and disease into our society, They invaded and spoiled our lands, disrupted our economy, ravaged our young men and women's dignity, ruined our. families, and treated our religion with patronizing contempt. Why does Professor Dudden insult us in our suffering by making us into a joke to promote her interests in (White) Women Studies? Why does she call us \Eskimo\, a name that was spread by the French and does not identify the many native. peoples who have traditionally lived beyond the country of the trees. Does she think we all look, talk, and act the same? Is her image of us a paste-up of Eskimo pies, kissing by rubbing noses, lending wives to visitors for sexual hospitality, and showing stupidity by buying refrigerators from smart White salesmen? Despite her arrogant dismissal of our importance, maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea if Union added a so-called Eskimo studies major. It is an \interdisciplinary\ field and its implementation \would be essentially adding depth to existing course options.\ It ·\would have a positive effect · on the campus's •intellectual climate',\ by changing the \distressing non-intellectual, anti-intellectual climate\ shown not just by the student body but by faculty like Professor Dudden. Since some of the colleges and universities \that Union regularly compares itself with\ have respectable programs in Arctic, Subarctic, and Northern Studies, I think \offering this major would put Union on a par with its · compet\tors.\ One more thing. Union has not been very successful in attracting applicants from amon'g the native peoples of the north. I am not a Union student, but maybe if you offered \Eskimo studies\ (and shifted a little of the money you now devote to studying yourselves in the mirror to scholarships for those your society has damaged) people like me would join your applicant pool. The only argument against \Eskimo studies\ that Professor Dudden puts out is that \women comprise one half tJf the population whereas Eskimos do not.\ Why does Professor Dudden equate validity with size and might? Isn't this a continuation of the same cultural imperialsim that has laid so many native peoples low? It would be nice if Professor Dudden apologized for her bad taste but even nicer if she tried to make amends by supporting the program and people she ridiculed with her offensive remarks. Alden Button Read Page TWO News Analysis Every· Week

CONCORDIENSIS November 10, 1988 Page 13 Is Union Prejudiced Against ROTC? To the Editor: During the course of this te1111, the Army ROTC unit on campus has unsuccessfully attempted to gain classroo·m space on our campus. Despite the efforts of Major Vargus, the commanding officer, Union College has continually denied any type of response to the unit's requests. We the rn~mbers of the Delta Battery (Union's Army ROTC unit, currently affiliated with the Siena College AROTC program), would very much like to become eligible for classroom space, and would like to know what the college's reasoning behind our den.ial of space is. The students involved in the AROTC program are.concemed Tal)e a Study Break . that the powers in charge have S·omething against the program. If this is so, we would mce to know what it is. The ROTC students are only 1rying to enrich their col'lege experience, and. at the same time do something for their country. Classroom space at the necessary times is not a problem, and ~he AROTC program is very flexible to the college's schedule. I, as an individual, am rapidly coming to the conclusion that the college is prejudiced against the unit, not to mention the other ROTC students in the Navy (including Marines} and Air Force branches, who also receive no recognition from the school. The large number of uniforms on campus indicates sufficient support for the program, and the amount of money the Government suppl:ies the school through scholarships are additonal reasons why tlte administration sho11Id consider the units' request. We are one of the many groups on campus who need and deserve attention. In addi!tion, our group has the guts to be Feady to fight for our country. I wonder if the adrninistrati<>n of Union College has the guts to do what is right. Sincerely, Carl R. Friedrich, Jr. 1991 Army ROTC, MSl/2 P.S. Have a nice day. UNIO COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM MIKE \A cut and a dozen pounds above the rest\ -Chicago Times presents SULLIVAN \Genuinely tunny. \ -Miami Herald TONIGHT * CC AUDITORIUM * 8:30-9:30 PM * FREE LETTERS A Response to Slander To the Editor: This fall, as in every term in which I have been at Union, I have seen a proliferaton .of articles decrying fraternal institutions. The individ11als who write these articles seem to believe that all white, lffluent, fraternity members are ln.herently evil, and seek to subjugate minorities, women, gays and even violinists. As a fraternity member, I greatly resent these accusations which lack any fact whatsoever in their attempt to sterotpye a substantial number of people. I am also amused by the childish statement by an individual in last week's paper, who seems to feel that when one joins a fraternity they instantly lose their first amendmentg rights to free speech .. He is basically accusing fraternities of being groups of mindless individllals which go along with the \majority\ opinion, and which are unable to voice any dissent against this megalithic monster of their fraternity. Never once in my experience as a brother of a fraternity have I seen an instance when someone was not allowed to express their opinion or was treated with disrespect due to their conviction,; in fact, diversity is often encouraged. But then again, I must remember that this man is an authority on the inner workings of fraternities, and on the minds of people involved in Greek life. Many feel that fraternities as a whole should be abolished since they are places where, in particular, rape is encouraged and then covered up. Speaking for my house and others, to say that we would condone rape is a horrible accusation and one which is utterly without fomtdation. Our critics also never seem to point out our accomplishments; such as the numerous fund raisers to help less fortunate individuals; Phi Gamma Delta's annual blood . drive, or Phi Delta Theta's sponsoring of a talk on AIDS, or Delta Delta Delta's run for cancer, just to name a few. Fraternities also provide an atmosphere for many non- alcohol related functions and, perhaps most important of all, they provide a house in which individuals in common can live together. Sincerely, Jack Markis; proudly a Theta Delt \Eskimo\ Studies? To the Editor: As an Aleut, I deeply resent Professor Faye Dudden's insensitivity about my ancestry and my culture. The White People introduced alcohol and disease into our society. They invaded and spoiled our lands, disrupted our economy, ravaged our young men and women's dignity, ruined our families, and treated our religion with patronizing contempt. Why does Professor Dudden insult us in our suffering by making us into a joke to promote her interests in (White) Women Studies? Why does she call us \Eskimo\, a name that was spread by the French and does not identify the many native peoples who have traditionally lived beyond the country of the trees. Does she think we all look, talk, and act the same? Is her image of us a paste-llp of Eskimo pies, kissing by rubbing noses, lending wives to visitors for sexllal hospitality, and showing stupidity by buying refrigerators from smart White salesmen? Despite her arrogant dismissal of our importance, maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea if Union added a so-called Eskimo studies major. It is an \interdisciplinary\ field and its implementation \would be essentially adding depth to existing course options.\ It \would have a positive effect on the campus's 'intellectual climate',\ by changing the \distressing non-intellectual, anti-intellectual climate\ shown not just by the student body but by faculty like Professor Dudden. Since some of the colleges and universities \that Union regularly compares itself with\ have respectable programs in Arctic, Subarctic, and Northern Studies, I think \offering this major would put Union on a par with its competitors.\ One more thing. Union has not been very successful in attracting applicants from amon·g the native peoples of the north. I am not a Union student, but maybe if you offered \Eskimo studies\ (and shifted a little of the money you now devote to studying yourselves in the mirror to scholarships for those your society has damaged) people like me would join your applicant pool. The only argument against \Eskimo studies\ that Professor Duddcn puts out is that \women comprise one half M the population whereas Eskimos do not.\ Why does Professor Dudden equate validity with size and might? Isn't this a continuation of the same cultural imperialsim that has laid so many native peoples low? It would be nice if Professor Dudden apologized for her bad taste but even nicer if she tried to make amends by supporting the program and people she ridiculed with her offensive remarks. Alden Button Read Page TWO News Analysis Every Week

Page 14 CONCQRDIENSIS November 10, 1988 .. LETTERS Congratulations George, What's Next Dear World, Well, the campaign is over and we can all breathe a little bit easier. Barring a miracle on Tuesday, the 8th, when you read this on Thursday Vice President Bush will officiallly be President-Elect Bush (please pause for a moment and. thank God). The United States of America and the rest of tbe world can now relax because the man who promises to finish the Republican plan which began eight years ago is only a couple of months away from the Oval Office. Let us reflect for a moment on what a fun and exciting eight years it has been for all Americans. Ronald Reagan has now officially made this country a debtor nation. It was. a tough fight, but this administration accumulated more debt than every President in our history combined. George has a tough act to beat, but I know he has it in him. Thank God we kept those tax and spend liberals out of office. . Our present leaders have not discriminated .at all when it comes to the disadvantaged. The poor, the drug users, amd the homeless have aU received the proper tools with which to · fall .funher behind the rest M society. Worried that Geor;ge Busb leaving his post as Dr11g Czar may hurt the flow of drug$ into this country? Perish the thought. Vice Presidettt Quayle, fresh from his stint as The Spiro Agnew School of How Not To Be a Vi<Je President is ready to assume full duties as Drug Kingpin, ab Czar. If has problems, I am sure we can count on General Noriega to help us out. If the paor everywhere would just relax, I am sure they will get the cut in the Capital Gains Ta.x for which they have been whining. Sometimes those people can be so demandi11g. To those who make their homes in doorways and on sidewalks across the country, do not worry. George h.as promised to create 3 million more homeless over the next four years, Ju.st a side note, when foreign investors buy the White House the Bushes and the Quayies will not have to pay rent. They will be excused, The editors of the Union College Undergraduate Review have begun work on the 1989 issue. The Review is a collection of non-fi.ction papers on any subject in the Humanities and Social Sciences. Any undergraduate may submit a paper. There are no maximum or minimum page requirements~ though works over 25 pages will not be published in their entirety. As the emphasis is on quality writing, papers invovling many graphs and charts are discouraged. Students may submit as many papers as they wish. The · deadline for submissions is February 1, so make sure to hold on to those final papers~ Send essays to BOX 260. The Annual Fund Office would like to thank the following teams for partilcipating in this Fall's Student~-Phonathont Theta Delta Chi Tri Delta Zeta Beta Tau Gamma Phi Sigma Phi Beta Delta Gamma Psi UpsHon B.L.A.S. The Classics Club 4th Floor West Davidson 3rd Floor N·orth The Senitnel but all staff members wil~ be required to pay a fee to the new owners. Spealting -of \the White House, J. Danforth will be getting the Tonka Toys, Nintendo, and a Nerf -hoop for the playroom he so desires. And yes, Marilyn Quayle will accompany Dan, on all trips to shield him from all dignitaries, just as she has shi¢lded Danny from the press on the campaign· trail. By the way, wasn't it smooth bow George escaped his thirty-minute election eve commercial without mentioning Quayle once? Hopefully, George can follow Ron and .stack the Supreme Court with justices of the Robert Bork ilk, My only hope is that George can get such compassionate men throug-h the appointment process. This way we can repeal some of those evil Civil Rights laws. Maybe, just maybe, we can finally get rid of Roe v Wad~ .. the decision which had the ,n_.erve to allow women to cl'ecid:e for themselves wlle:thet or n()t they wanted an aboltiaa, Witfi some luck and ill health to· a few justices, we C\aJl put 'that decision in tlle ltands ot the government 'NIIere it truly belongs. . It should •]).e -difficult to match the coll'llption <lf tile past administratio!l; but George can do it with 'l!Omehelp from friends. PerhaJ)'s Mike Deaver and Lyn Nofzi11e:I: can help out after they get <lff }}.tobati<>n. Do not forget, \J\Ie stiU l!ave American hosta;ges at large. Ollie North wiU be ending his toqr of the natiElO· as a levturer soon. Perhaps he needs to make a few extJ:a. dollars. Does anyone have the Ayat<>llah's phone numbed Union College's Young Republicans a11l their fri~nds everywhere have elected George 10 %-Off- To Students & Faculty Bush to the Presidency and J. Danforth Quayle. to within a heartbeat of that sam.e office. Congratulations. Sure seine - citizens are better off,_ ·but millions- more are being left' beb.ind. This country is on its way down the drain and you may have sealed its fate. You have been forewarned. Just one last question: In 19,92 are the Republicans going. to find some way to blame the Carter Administration for the hell the Bush Administration will bnng to us? Proba~ly not, but I know. they will try and the same people who believe George Bush and Dan Quayle are fit to lead this coqntry in 1988 will probably buy that argu~ent four years from now ... Now burry Reagan Fest Part Two starts in ten minutes. Democratically Yours, Christos J:. Nikolis '90 NISKA YUNATIRE & SERVICE I Expert Auto Repair ·- 24 Hr. Towing Hercules • QQodyear • Kelly Springfield 1501 Balltown Rd. Schenectady~ NY 12309 \ . . 374-9'751 Light by tlie !Fire An Hour of .Fairy Tales Bertrand Fay, R-ecitalist . ' Monday, November14 8:00P.M. . . -chapel and Cultural-Center at HPI 2125 Berdeit Avenue Troy, NY 12180 Admissjon: Students/Seniors$ 2.00 Ge11~ral $ 3.0-0 For information: 247-n93 SINCE THIS lS T.HE LAST C.ONCO·,RDIENSIS ;PU:BLISHED:'THIS . TERM, ANY ADDITlO,NAL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR RECEIVED WILL NOT BE PR:INTED UNTIL TH:E FIRST 1-SSU·E, WINTER T-ERM. \

' . \ ','h.,' -~-:.~- • CONCORDIENSlS November 10, 1988 R.E-SERVE T R A I N ·J N G C 0 R P S .,. ·- ''\!·.'~\~' ..... -· 4··,- 4.:- '_·:. .. \. ,,a,, , . ~ ; ..... \ .. _ · .... . .- I~ • '\o ·. \\,;.. ~ ~> ~~ • . . ·::,., t . ··~ _.'\, If you're a freshman or sophomore with good grades, apply now for an Army ROTC scholarship. It pays off during college. And afterwards. ' . ARMY BOTC SCHOLARSHIPS CONTACT: MAJOR YARGUS 1518) 783·2565 Page 15

! CONCORDIENSlS November 10, 1988 · ~~--~-A_R_T_S_._&_E~N_._TE~R_._TA~·~IN_M_E_N~··._T--------~~ A & E BRIEFS Union. Nott Memorial Theater. 370-6153. Nov. 8-12. Black Cocoon. Tickets $3. College Center. Fri.-Sun. Planes, Trains and Antomobiles. Room 103 of tlie Arts Building. • Today 9-11:30, 1:40-4:00. Printmaker William Paden_'s workshop on Japanese woodcut printmaking technique. Proctors. 346-6204. Tonight. Cambridge Buskers •. New York State Musetim. Albany. 474.5877 •. Nov. 12- . Henry Walton and His Odyssey. Nov. 19-March 19. Racing Across New York: Competition · Automobiles, 1903-1985. Page Han. University at Albany. 442·5622. Nov. 17-19. The Birth ofBlackCinema. Capital Rep. Albany. 462-4534. Nov. 12-Dec. 18. Round andRo11nd the Garden. ' Chapel & Cultural Center. Tory. 274-7793. Monday Nov. 14. \Light by .the Fire\ an hour of Fairy Tales. ~. \The Good Mothet\ By CAMERON KENNY Associate Arts Ed'itor \The Good Mo~her\ is an interesting and well .performed drama starring Diane Keaton and Liam Neeson (Suspect}. Keaton is Anna, a .lab assistant, ex-pianist, and devoted mother who is trying to raise her daughter in an open and uninhibited environment. She becomes involved with a sculptor, Neeson. who is later accused by her ex-husband of molesting her daughter. The plot is not as predictable as it seems, however, and it takes some unexpected twists. On the whole, \The Good Mother\ is a thought-provoking and engaging film, and the performances by Keaton and Neeson ... in particular are excellent Tl}e film opens in Maine, where Anna's family traditionally gathers at the home of her· wealthy and overpowering gr;p1c1tather. As a youn~ girl, Anna 11ar.rates the story of her wild and unconventional aunt, Babe, who alone coin;bats d1e grandfather's domineering nature~ Babe becomes pregnant and is sent off to Switzerland to have her baby, and' while there. immediately gives it up for adoption. Yet Anna always feels that Babe, given the chance, could have been the 'good mother' that Anna later tries to be; and also~ the 'good · mother' that her grandmother, married to a harsh and uncompromising husband; was too weak to be. '\The Good Mother\ is in many respects an interesting look at the 80's. For exan1ple, during a. fight with her boyfriend, Anna is accused of having no passion for either her work as a lab assistant or for ,the piano. Yet she claims that the list of requirements for women, once cookin~. cleaning and sewing, have merely been exchanged for those of interest in_ career and a hobby, combined with a les·sene'd estimation of 'mothering.' The p~ssion of her life, trying te be the best mother she .can be, has .lost its relative value. And ironically, her worthy attempt to be as progressive and open as pc>ssjDle, ev.7ntually b~kfires. · On the whole, aside from its inte!esting comme11ts and fairly engaging .plot, \The Good Mather\· is simply well done. The inevitable court scene, for instance; is brief; and even better,; it has no ju:ry; Its scenes are: efficient, and the small glimpses of the less developed characters, SllC'h as the grandparaents, are also well done and interesting. Although \The Good Mother\ is not particularly spell-binding, it is a respectable and intriguipg film. B+ Outstanding Octavo s~ingers By MEG PARSONS On Saturday night at 8:00 while most people on the Union campus were watching the Skating Dutchmen romp on the R.P.I. Engineers, the Octavo Singers were performing in Memorial Chapel. The Schenectady based choral group, who are celebrating their fifty-tifth year, performed two works: Four Psalms by Thomas F. Savoy, a native of Cohoes, and Sacred Service (Avodath Hakodesh} 'lntposed by Ernest Bloch. Four Psalms, a new work by the composer, was sung by the Octavo Chamber Singers and the Octavo Youth Chorus. The children ranged in age from ten to fourteen years old and .p~rforrned exceptionally well considering the difficulty of the composition. The group offered a nice blend of adult and children's voices. Soloist Robert Abelson joined the chorus with a rich, professional. baritone voice. After the performance Mr. Savoy was introduced to an appreciative audience. The main part of the concert was Sacred Service by Ernest Bloch. Bloch, who,was born in 1880 and died in 1959, composed in many countries in Europe before settling in the United States in 1916. The text is taken from the Union Prayerbook for Jewish Worship, with the cantor and chorus alternating in a musical setting of rare power and sensitivity. Set in the form of a Synagoge Service, the work includes a short sermon to be read during the performance. The performance was in Hebrew except tor certain passages which are traditionally presented in English. . The soloists. -performing were: Baritone Robert Abelson, a member of, among other companies. the New York City Opera; Soprano Patricia· Aycox, a music teacher in the Schenectady Schools; and mezzo-soprano Nancy Carlson Stone who has sung at the Chautauqua Institute and with the Glimmetglass Opera. The music was haunting and beautiful and the perlormance was quite impressive. I have seen many major -religious works performec(. none ho.wever in Hebrew. The strong beautiful language lent itself perfectly to Bloch's score. I found it impossible to directly follow the text in its English translation, as I became lostin the intricate harrnonies. The high point of the work was the Etz Chayin (Peace Song). The delicate dis-sonance perfectly built into the piece's climax. Overall this concert was very well performed. I recommend taking the next opportunity. to hear the Octavo Singers in their performance of Handel's Messiah at Proctor's Theatre on December 16. .· Programming Power: College Radio on the Rise By KAREN J. SCHAEFER I turned on the radio the other day. My roommate had left it tuned into a local commercial station. The DJ was recapping what he had ·played and mentioned a song from the 10,000 Maniacs' 'debut' album, In. My Ti-ibe. I held myself back from calling the station and explaining that the Maniacs have released other albums like The Wishing Cbair and Secrets of the I- Ching. The band has been getting airplay for years ... on college radio stations . / . College radio is on the rise. The recent emergence of bands like 10,000 Maniacs, U2 and REM is just a small taste of what is yet to come. College stations have the power tllat commercial stations lack. That power is choice. Predominantly 'Top 40\ stations must follow strict formats which meet with adver~iser's and programming manager's guidelines, which leaves DJ's with a small~ selection of music to play and, th.erefore, listeners hear, respectively, songs that have been watered down and hand chosen for them. College music directors have the ability to choose what they deem fit ability to present classic rock audience. for the turntables and give their in. the morning, Jaz.z in the So tune into your collegae listeners a more .alternative afternoon, new music at night, radio station. Tltere's music diverse·cross section of tune$. dance on the weekends~ and so there for everyone. And you Each month college radio forth. The stations are then might even hear something stations receive. hundreds of able to appeal to a larger new that you like. new albums. These are ••~•••••--•••••••••--••• distributed by both major I CLIP 'N SAVE 1 record .companies like IRS, .L .. H. E. WRUC. N. .E .. W' .·S. 97 ·II CBS and Virgin; and smaller 11· independent labels. The music 1 - 1 directors and their staff then sift 1 Just as with Elvis before them U2's musical prowess is brought into . 1 through these to find what is 1 · question upon their silver screen debut Thus explaining theinemoval · appropriate for the station. from the \8.97\ top spot. I II · I This gives less recognized I No. ARTIST ALBUM LABEL I· bands the chance to mix in 1 . 1. Lloyd Cole & The witlJ. bigger names, without the . Commotions ME!instream Capitol interfer. ence ·Of sponsors and 12. The Alarm Electric Folklore Live ·I.R.S. · ·· 3, U2 Ratlle & Hum Island promotional c-.mpaigns. The . 1 1 4. Screaming Tribesman Bones&. Flowers Ryko Disc ....---..,.....--~~~.......-~~· -::·=--==·:-:--=~· =--=· -=s=---- ~esu~t of this process is the 5 • Th~y Might Be Giants• Lincoln Ear/None LANG U A G'E TABLE. . well deserv~d recognition and Is. Julian ~ope• My Nation UndergrQund Island . airplay of artists like The 17. Balahctng Act Ct1rtains I.R.S. FRENCH· Mon. 12:45 M 1 :45 Smithereens, Billy Bragg, The 1 ... a.. R.E.M. 12\.. \Orange Crush\ Warner SPANISH· Tues. 11:45-12:45 Replacements, The Ramortes 8.97 The Popes• Hi, We 1 re The Popes Popes RUSSIAN AND GERMAN· Wed. 12:45 -1 :45 and recent discoveries such_as 1 1 Legend: • • First week on The New 8.97 ITALIAN· Thurs. 11:45-12:45 . Sinead O'Connor and The J r .. ,., .... ,=s,r Mon 1 24 . 5 1 .4 5 Sugarcubes. · I . PROGRAMMING NOtES: J . #tr #'un;;;. ~;;; • · · • · Another inter·estm' -o aspe· ct of ·IWin Feelies casettes and stuff this week. · \' · Win tickets to see Mamboo.x (tonight) and .Dirty Face (November 16)at All Language Tables wilf be in the Colleg~ Center 1 college radio is its freedom .in . QE~. Upperclassmen's Dining_ Hall. Anyone not 0 n the me~l pan format. While commerctal Don't lose the opportunity to be the first kid on your blodk to h&ar Ca n buy lunch downstairs in the Pub and bring it up or stations stay fairly consistent Green; the new full albUIT'! by R.E.M. is available on 89.7FM. I tw . enty four hours a day, · Compile.d by Ron Eugenio anrlJohn M.organ. . . . . . \ 1 \brown bag\ it. --.-... college stations have the ••••••••••--•••••-- . ·

• CONCQRDIBNSIS .!Vovember .1·0. 1988 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT !/) ::!! $ . ...J ...J §: !Q a: :c (.) f5• ·~ 0 :c 0... Jimmy cnu . \Everything's All Right'' By JOHN S. MORGAN- delivered· in a spirited fashion. \Hold Tight\ was typical of the The energy level in Proctor's evening's selections; the band Tl!eatre was .so nigh that was as forceful as a Geo~ge se~eral reggae aficionadQs. Bush television advetisernent~ confused the stately setting but did not upstage Cliffs with the stands of Achilles trademark vocal work. Rillk during a recent overtime Early . in. the set Cliff period of some n()te. Jimmy - performed a series Of anti- Cliff supercharged-the audience . apartheid songs. Cliff claimed tW& past Monday evenin-g in a that \I'm not a politician; I'm a C o n c e r t Committee musician with a mission.\ presentation at the. llisterical However, he noticeably moved . Schenectady theater. The the audience with his rap . majority of the material Cliff between songs; then he blew and ·.his band perf()J;:med was them away with politicized from -his most recent album, num~rs such as Reggae Down Hanging Fire, lmt the set Babyl()n.\ also included several Cliff - One of the evening's stanclards as well as a surprise surprises was a cover of Cat ortwo. Steven's \Wild World.\ The Cliff tool{ to the stage one ease with which Cliff .pulled holll' late, and the opening song the song off offers proof · :.. featuring only vocals and positive that he transcends the percussion - cam:e· across as \R\ label - he is not the typical listless. the show began in reggae artist. His work is far earnest with \Hold Tight (Eye more melodic than any band , F()t An Eye),\ which was that has ever been associated \It's Time\ Says Jinimy Cliff By NINA SMfLARI deepset feeing against this social injustice? The desire to do something about it? ;wih the word reggae, with the p;Qssible exception of UB40. Additionally, it must be noted that CUffs vocal delivery is far , more clear than all artists in. his genre. The band was far 'tighter' on songs from Hanging Fire than they were on Cliff classics . such as \The Harder They Come\ and \Many Rivers To Cross.\ this is not offered in a j11dgmental way; I am far from certain that a reggae band .should be subjected to the criteria of being 'tight.' · · Cliff enchanted the small crowd of 1,000 with equal parts of vocal mastery and hypnotic movements. The turnout for a super star of Cliffs magnitude was light. Aside from attendance, Cliff made Concert Committee's presentation successful-even awesome-on tile scale of beating the Engineers on the ice. ' HOROSCOPES BY .,.A\ SCORPIO: Even though conditions may tempt you this week, don't throw in the towel concerning a romantic interest or academic goal. Go with the flow! SAGITTARIUS: Whether or not you blew a fuse over a relationship clash last week, this week poses an excellent opportunity to patch things up. CAPRICORN: Stress could bring a change of fleart where t1es of af.fection are concerned. Be carefu I that your academic worries of the week do not became destructive to other aspects of your life. AQUARIUS: This week will be one of great prodBCtivity but of little socializing. Your best bet would be to save the weekend for work and preparation for finals. Save fulfillment of wild desires for vacation! PISCES: If you are a night person, the week's evenings could be a dream come true romantically. As ,the week unfolds, however, be practical in all your judgements. ARIES: This week either your work will interfere wi1h your socJa,l life .or the other way around. Heed P.M. chances for quiet work pr~g!ess. TAURUS: The week gets off to a very convivial start; added popularity makes it easier to get your way in whatever you want t!) achieve. GEMINI: A private inspiration could pay off in a big way in regard to academics, health or money. Don't let a chance to gain slip by you. Begin planning for a productive winter break. CANCER: Do nothing to complicate things around your base of operations; there's a chance that a family matter or relatie>nship problem may work out to your advantage, if you're tactful. LEO: This is no time to experiment with untried nutrition or exercise notions. The outlook for the week is mostly favorable for romance and other pleasurable activities. VIRGO: An exchange of ideas with a person who has considerable know-how will give your ambitions a nice boost. This is a good week for home repairs or beginning new projects. i LIBRA: .A long distance relationship may show warning _ signs this wee~. It may be time to consid~r r~oving on. If not involved, th1s week may pose new begtnnmgs. Dr. Sheng Qiu Wa11g from China will tach a TAl CHI class for beginners during Winter Term on Tuesdays from 51o 6 prn in the Exercise Room of Alumni Gym. The class will Wl'l for 6 weeks, artd the cost is $20 for students, and $~0 for non-students. \How m:e you feelin'?\ asked Jimmy Cliff, '' Ahril\h ?\ If you were one of the mmy fans at Pr()Ctot's this past Monday night, you had no problem lettitlg it show! Dancing and si11ging in the aisles, the alltlience was captivated by Jimmy Cliff and b.is reggae m11sic. Certainly you were entertained at the Jimmy Cliff concert. Some of you have said it did not compare to the other concerts to which you have been. But; from the way you reacted, mosrof you seemed to be enjoying yourselves. Was it only a night of entertainment or was it more? Did. you share Jimmy Cliff's hopes of abolishing apartheid or did yo1,1 just sing along, ignorant of Jimmy Cliff at Proctor's We need-1 0 people to make the class go. If you are interested please contact linda Patrik in tile Philosophy Department (Phone: 370-6240) by . November 15th. When he asked yQu how you were feeling, you replied \aluigh\ until you ~ould not :yell it any louder, didn't you? Wilen 'he sang hi~ Jamaican words and asked for your echo, :yall responded emphaticaUr, didn't you? Whe11 he sang \Abolish apartheid\ you sang • al()ng with the c:rowd? A . ' problems you do not ·understand or believe are real1 In the case of the latter; can you accept your actions Or do you think of them as hypocritic a~? It would be saying a lot about the awareness and concerns of the crowd at Proctor's Monday ttigbt if everyone deeply desired to act against apartheid. Much of today's ente.r.tainment is politically motivated. Jimmy Cliffs performance was certainly one that ~had a powerful message; many of · yo a may have heard it. · Play The Abdication Performed by the Rensselear Theater Company Nov. 1&, 12; 17, 18, 19 plus Nov. 11 Benefit for Joseph's House (8:00p.m.) Chapel and Cultural Center at RPI , 2125 Burdett Avenue Troy, NY 12180 - Admission: S6.50 General $3.50 Students $12.00 Benefit For Information: 274-7793 ••••••••••••••••••••••• • • CROSSGATES • • • • • CINEMA • Alien Nation 12:45 3:25 • Feds 1:40 4:40 • Punchline 1:30 '4:20 • Rattle & Hun1 1:45 4:30 • Halloween IV 2: 15 4:50 • Good Mother 1:55 4:45 • Everybody's All American 1:20 4:15 • Accused 12:35 3:30 • Elvira 1: 1 0 4:05 • They· Live 12:55 3:45 •• Crossing Delancey 12:25 3:20 : Die Ha:rd 12: 15 3:05 ' • • • • • 6:40 9:05 • 7:5010:10 • 7:1510:15 • 7:2510:00 • 8:0() 10:35 ~ 7 :4() 1 0 :25 • 7:10 9:55 • • 6:30 9:15 • 7:00 9:25 • 6:50 9:40 • 6:20 S:50 0 6:05 9:00 • •••••••••••••••••••••••

' I 1 ,, Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS Novem/Jer 10, 1988 ·CAMPUS NEWS =====~=====I .R:ic.er- CLVB'NEWS Morning Prayer continues in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center from 8: 15-8:35 a.m. every weekday, The final Sunday service of this term will be this Sunday (11/13) at 6 p.m. in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center. Never fear ... justice prevails! ~ Julie Brand, 1 CU\ia:nged my schedule for ile_:l{t term ... shopping days are uow: Mon, Tues, Wed, Thurs. and Jlri ... Thanks for everything and I Love You. Una. 1 • ])oes anybody really care . ==::=:::::=::=:::::::::=====:==~ · itb()ut PURPLE M&M's? I CLASSIFIEDS · · pers<>nally like the brown ones. ----------------~- ,. Niskayuna, 4-bedroom . house for rent, $750/month & · · Little Twerp, util., close to bus stop and to · · I'll miss you! Pick up a hot Union College: 465:-9377. Greek guy - not: Dirnetrius but .. 8()b! The Lost & Found, located at Security & Safety Dept., Campus Operations Center, has many articles of . ' Love your sweating Roomie. , P _s. I'll always remember you by tile smell of burning flesh. I clothing, glasses, car keys and 1 books. . lfo}'le Freed, If you have lost articles, : You're the beahsand we'll please check with us, in · m-ver forget everytl;ting you did person, at the Security Dept. · for us! We love you ... Don't anytime during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Moriday through Friday. Winter break is coming, Please check before leaving the Campus. Travel Sales Sell Spring Break Package tours ·to the Carribean. Free Travel $$. Great Sales Experience and Flexible Hours. 1-800-426- · 7710 or (212) 5_~5-7422. For Sale: Alpine CD player and receiver. New $150. Need capital. Call 372-2489. On Campus Travel Representative or organization needed to promote Spring Break Trip to Florida. Earn money, free trips, and v~luable work experience. Call Inter- Campus Programs at 1-800- 433-7747. PERSONALS Gordon: Get psyched, Def Leppard is opening again for James Taylor in Portland this weekend. Cindy. P.S. Beware of Jetta drivers. L,W,C, Thanks for the trip to Albany - next time we will drive! Love. J and K. Marina, You're the greatest! I'll miss you over winter break - especially at 2:30 a.m. (ha-ha). Thanks for always being there. Love ya, Bologna Pie. ev~r ... Your Sisters. Dave, D() you rim? rom, D() I really look like Drew? 'lhrnks! Love, Lori: Moi~ Thmks for a great weekend. Co11gratulations - I am very pr()ud of you. I'm psyched for so:m.e new and exciting places for cur excursions. Love- P. D, Thanks for a great weekend in Beailtown. Wanda can't wait to meet Cederic by the Charles or tlie.:Rez. Love, J. cs, Wben will our riext absolutely wild weekend be? Don't forget · the necessary provisions; JA's, Kazoo's, and Mr. Pez. Love, Sister W. Patrice, We want our R.A. evaluations ·back. Security Wilson. Becky B, Janey B, Lina, Hill, Cathy & Denny~ ru miss you tons! Watch• those .pledges! Love always, Jill. To My Roomie; First of all .. let's re-define \banging the bed'' · Second of all... Beware of the Winter Doom. Third of all... I love ya! soap! Love, Kim. l Bobby, · You had three at once- What happened? Strike three and you are out! . A.K.J. Bobby, Just what does Ken have that you want? Isn't being yoqrself enough? ~ · Stephanie & BeckY &. Chris, Have a great term abroad! Come back tan and don't worry · - Rtuiby will be .waiting ·for ·: you!! Love, Lisa. Jill. ! I To the SDT Pledges, Be cocky and have fun. We'll be back before ifs done\\ Love, Jill and Cheryl Delta Gamma Pledges, Nice prank last week! Did you enjoy your ''pledge activity\ Saturday morning??? Love, Locks. Nifda, Nifda, Nifda Union Hockey #1 Union 4 R.P.I. 3 November 5, 1988 Gimpie, _. How is the ankle? You will be running soon and then Pete can rest! Love, Goober. Andi, Think bubble bath, veggies and d:ip. But watch out for the Cuddly,· 5 weeks w/o you will about kill ·ple. You are the best in the world. I love you and am gorma miss you. Your Witchy Wpman. Bob, 1 - 2'- 3 - 4. Happy half birthday! I love you so much! Y.S.A. Amanda, I'm moving in! Can't wait to see you ... finally! Hannah, Tootsie Roll? Del Monte- Luv you, Meg. -J & A. You didn't have your sticker on! -Mike .. Pizza- Put your clothes on! -DelMonte. Hannah- Squeak ... AAH ... Squeak .... AAH .... . -The Door. 'IJheS()uth demolished tne · , N()rthJp Davidson.:s CivilW~ .. , <JQn:grats to Paul Garnett! .3 . 11~ .pllltes of spagl1etti in 5 min. . , <Tilys, rour RA will have her i l'C\V(';Dge. R(i)l>by D., . ·.8aJlPY 22nd B-Da)d Can't · Vlaitto celebrate with you. • so-meti!Ile: soont Iwonderif . : meat taste;.s even better with· ag:e! . . ·. ·. -The WUd Chicle. \ Ife-veryone stopped gripling about w llat is really not . intp.ertant - we may get to I soJvin~ 1h~ real problems! N:yilllS • ·y-ou area great person to lean . OILJ.! ' Steph. Ma1;tbew.,· . \r-ve ooissed you .•. really, I ha-ve. Dinner and movie, first . ~eekback.?? Dear Betty, IIOIJe you have a 21st H:appy • · Binhd2y in December. We'li · · tty to 1Je together! Delta Love - Suit~ 265~ Querida Judy, F:oeliz 21 Cumpleanos! Sn compane:ra de cuarto, Liz. /' CB,.. IIA.:PFY 21ST :BIRTHDAY a littl~ J>.it early! Lcve, the Th~is-free Love Suite_ I 'fo all you gjepa]>pais out there- Here\'s b out last fall term at . U11ioa College! ! Let's keep up tliegood work and the Illertlo.-1ies!! Dear Stallky Who' e. You're tile bestfcr all-night \sex.\! Hope you aced it.

• I i, CGlVCORDIENSIS N(Jvember 10, 1988 Page 19 PERSONALS To The P~B..L. Thanks for .putting up with us! You guys are the greatest: . Love, Your Buddies. To Davidson all- Thailb .for the sweet note!! You guys are awesome to put up with me! Luv ya, Laurie. Paul, When can we come up and rub · yourbum? ?? - . To Davidson 318, How aboiJ.t some broccolli? You guys are aawesome! Love, The Dingy One. Burlap, Sorry about the \kitchen fight! n Once a steward ahvays a steward! Killer. Denny- Still looking ... Little Lina - You missed l}verything! Should stay at U next 'time! Love,.K & T. The Oxfam break•fast for Thursday evening (11110) at 1 0 PM in the · Rathskellar has been Cancelled Torn between two lovers arl.d .A ·-~~ I .Janey B & Becky B ~ You saved us from heat exhaustion! We'll never fo:11g-~t • your hospitality! Love Potter tr~t Lori, No more cobwebs? Quiche and Coffee, I can 1 t think of a better sll~DL MarkH, Keith S, Jim T, Scott B. ' · Congratulations on acc.eptin..g •: your Bids. The ~ros. of Kappa:Sig. Steven H. When the cats away, thenlice shall play, huh? 2 on Frid::.y · and a whipped cream extravagaf!Za on Saturday .. 1'()u ; big Stud!!! CB, Oops - I quess things weiit ~ little too far . .That's OK, I <lotl/t regret it for a second. The.k~y word is friends - We Will ·Be: BEST FRIENDS FOREVER! Love, ])Jv1. Keith & Mike, Here's to the fifth person<t} to- Keith and the first to Mike:. Mike and wltip cream and Keith as love God. You St11ds are one of a kind! Let's do another shift, huh?! DM, Happy 22nd Birthday!! (11/11} or should I say Bonne Anniversaire, no I shomcJn•tt 1 ~CB. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$.$$$$$~S • c-HRISTMAS MONEY CHRISTMAS VA·CATION UNITED. PARCEL SERVICE · EMPLOYMENT __ _ Full Time - Part Time ·MONDAYTHRU FRIDAY TILL CHRISTMAS ALL SHIFTS AVAilABLE Help With Clnistmas Bills While Being Paid To Work Out APPLY IN PERSON: EACII MONDAY BETWEEEN 10 AM-· . 8 PM UPS PERSONNEL OFFICE 24 AVIS DRIVE, LATHAM, NY 12110 (1ST LEFf OFF WADE RD. OFF RT. 7) EOE M/F $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CAMPUS ·NEWS. LZ, Sigma Chi- Once again you've come to my rescue! Many thanks! I • don't know what I'd do without ' you!! Thanks for the GREAT party • , Saturday night Delta Gamma's Abroad - Hurry Home!! A terrific pledge class and a group of anxious sisters await your KC. Little Jill,. Don't go - I'll miss you tons. Little Lina. . J.B. (A.K.A . .S-2): i Eenie nieeni{) miney mo, in • · who's .truck will you go? · Love, S-1 andS-3. c, You're the .greatest, I'm going to miss you during winter break. Remember \I Love You\. Me. To: Second Story Psychos and Honorary Sisters - Live Long and Prosper. Continue Striving, My Destiny Lies Elsewhere. -Zaphod Beeblebrox. Hello Spanish. Princess! Have you guessed my identity yet? I gave you hints this weekend! Think about it. Jimmy-0, Happy 22nd Birthday! With Love, Me in IT ALIA. The sisters and pledges of Gamma Phi Beta. Never trusta -----\-- ------- an inch·above the.knee! TmcyFumey- I'm sorry we couldn't party together last weekend but how about tomorrow night? Love your \big\ sister (from last week) Congratulations Field Hockey! First place in ECACs, that's awesome! From the same avid fan as last week (AKA. Kapper, to some of you). Rob, I always live up to my pronlises. I will see you next Thursday - when you need the labor notes! Love, KIMBER. BobbyS, Do these words remind you of · Monday night? LIMP, FLACCID, MINISCULE, DROOPY, LACKING, UNDERSIZED. They did us! Cathy Lynn, I think I'm the best... four · · retum. Miss you. Love Us. Lisa Massimimo - Glad you'll be \sailing\ along thm my senior.year with me. You'll be a great sister, because you're a great person. Another sea lover, P.L. Kathy & Lori, After four years you think . : you'd have gotten a bid ... i somewhere. Don't worry we hate you. · Josh & Steve. Robby D- What's that thing with the number buttons on it? I've actually missed you. ToJ andJ, L. Clovers are green, so is grass. Pick the Noots and put them up your blankie. Love J. L. Drawers closed, shoes in closet and sheets on bed ... . we're all set. L. hours and nothing , , accomplished ..• Sunday kitchen Burlap - . . . clean-up on a Monday ... I Love Thanks for putting up w1th Eric Gural, Greetings from S.U.! One hundred days offun in only 10 ! days time! Get psyched!! I can't Wait! Gamma Phi Beta- Congratulations on one hundred and fourteen years! Gamma Pledges - Congra~lations and keep smiling! Gamma Pili Betas - Keep studying hard, Yes, the term is almost over but keep going right to the end! Happy 114th Gamma Phi. Let's party it up tomorrow night. , Gamma Pledges - You guys 21\({ great. Hope that you're having fun. P.S. Don't forget :to. wear yout pins. You. ; me last weekend - actually not · me ... the Void! Remember ----;--------- Avoid The Void!! Karin Hayes! Frosty the Snowman, Shopping, snowing, & Xmas! See all we have to look forward to? Fall's over and you're still stuck with me. The photo album will b.e priceless. Love, D.L. The Morning Improv Class - My thanks cannot express my gratitude for being fortun~te to share in your journeys ... Peace be with you on your way. A fellow traveler. Tilly, How long does it take for you to sew on Chris's button? Your SocldessBuddy. G.T.B .. - Long time no see stranger. · Keep smiling A.L.A. is almost over. Have an awesome weekend. CMC. ... You're crazy. Tina, \Here come a riddle; here come a clue. If you are really smart, you'll know what to I do ... \ \Aloysius draws rather prettily too ... \ Marymauve. Don't worry, be bourgeoius. Dave, I have a story for you - you · .see I have this terrace and when I was little ... Love Becky. P.S. How's the hernia doctor? Big Nuss, Honorary Sister, and. all your other names - Good or bad? Yes or no? Can you tell yet? Good Luck! Love, Kaplan. RECREATION ROOM- COLLEGE CENTER 301 Building Hours: - Recreation Room: Football equipment 7:00am -1:00am 10:00 afu-1:00 am 8:30 am-12:30 am 12:30 pm-12:30 am Mon.-Fri. Sat. -Sun. Mon.-Fri. Sat.-Sun. available: 12:00 pm-12:00 am Mon.-Sun. ~ I

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS Nollembe.r _10',. 1988 . ' CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Woody, You drinking tonight? JOKE!!! Courtiley and Danielle, Thanks for a great season. You guys are great captains! We'll miss you U.C. F:ield Hockey. U.C. Field Hockey, The sl\liTI:ber party has come · to an end! Thanks for a great season. Ann. Fanny Fiscal, I herud you looked! Did you look? Win~er term without Twerp - What are we going to do? Prof. Joe. Roons and Skippy, Good Luck in Greece! Miss ·you lots, Love Ann. Janey B. Have you turned in the rap music for Anita Baker? I was just getting used to it too! Love, Becky. Hallie and Perry, Oh, I love to waterski... no skis, no water and no boat... I had fun standing in the cold .... Joe economist, You economics throat!!! Fanny Fiscal. Jill ian, Can I have the\ rest of my skin back -please?! Bedside radiators in Greece? Have a blast, but don't forget me and Henes! · Love, The Quiet One. John Henes, Can ,you just come over and turn a couple of times? Human air freshner?? Lina. John, Addictive? Insatiable? Never! I'm looking forward to the mint flavored milkbones & the studded collar, but beware cif \turtle mode!\ Robby D, Happy you know what - LoveL. Jilly, New Year's? It's a date!! Lina. Mona, . We are going to have to make . up for this term and spring term soon. And we will, I promise. KT. Mona, Kath, Clare and all the rest, I will miss you all spring term, not to worry though, I will be back to celebrate in the nick of time. Love, KT. T- We haven't had a tinfoil rendezvous in a long time! My tinfoil and I miss you! Love, The Tinfoil Women. To New York State'.s best wing, Get psyched for Virginia! Don't make too. many service station stops on the way home! Love, your #1 Fan. Jan Baby, You only talked 67 times in class today! We've really been impressed by your brilliant statements. We're SURE you'll make one hell of a psychiatrist! Room of Hell 32l - That was a great partx last A· E R 0 B I WEAR Friday! Hope your .carpet will ·be able to handle_ another one soon (not for that reason Julio)! Love, Killer. Lori, It just won't be the same without you! Thank$ for showing me the ropeS! Love, Becky. FOR SALE: Microwaves! Microwaves! ·Microwaves! All sizes! All I colors! -All styles·! We have them all! Name your price - we'll negotiate! If you don~t see it - we can get it! Cali 386- 4080! nw .. -And you thought I would · never send you a personal! Have a super break, \Kiddo\! Love, A.E. Tri-Delta, Happy Founder's Day! Toher, Seen you perform in class. Wish it were elsewhere. Carol & Lizard, Even though your B'days are in Dec., You deserve the recognition NOW - Happy \Legal\ B'day you guys! Love, Alison. Dan, . I've been around, maybe if you'll call we can have dinner ... Dunn, I'm still waiting ... Why don't we do this right and just meet at the Pink Pussycat, so I could see for myself what it's :like! Helen. Coisey, Only thirty-eight days 'til Christmas!! Love, Vott MJGII, il. ee, sa, sam, sa, oh. rang, yook, chil, pal, he, gu, ship~ lillL. Personally fpt J,ennJfer Elizabeth Kove: Your apartment mates love you! !! And so do Bally, Birdie, Pan~e and Teddy! Coffee, Even if I get rich over break, don't worry you can always count on mel Ifan.f in the:re. Six. months frorn now you'll be as happy as me! Quiche .. Gina, . , I thought you never misbehave? You set a record playing pool with Mi$sa! Eat, · bite... Let's do it again sometime soon. Big Dave, I've missed you .•. Little Me. Denise Saunders, Happy Birthday! On your birthday, don't do anything we wouldn't do with N.PJ Linh & Linh. CAB, Do you realize that our phone call cost me one tenth of my flight fare?!! Scary, isn't it? (But, boy, was it worth it!!!) SMC. Dear Tent, Happy 19th Birthday!!! Love, Oct. Dear Oct, Happy 19th Birthday!! Love, Tent. Deutsch Bear, I miss you already. Love, Denny. TK, -Do you want to· demand a re- match or should we just tell everyone who the REAL · Champ is?! Love., Spuj. Cheesie, ' . Ple-ase stop· doing that ! I · refu:;e · to chase after good- . looking men for you anymore! • 'But I'll be your punching bag anyday, -YVB:E. • , Mis.sa & Gretch, Have an awesome time! Potter · won't be · the same · withou~ you! Can't wait till spring! DebbieGjepappa~ Linds, It's been an interesting term, not terribly exciting but still interesting. Your roomie. Lori, Jill and Linds, Potterwasn't all that bad ... · heat, burning flesh and more heat. .. Lina. Kristin, Let's make the rest of the term amazing, so we remember it all winter - cause we'll miss you. Don't forget to write! Love your D.C. buddies, Stef & Risa. Happy Birthday to You. Happy Birthday to You. Happy Birthday Dear Missy, Happy Birthday to You!! This may be the only on·e you celebntce abroad party hardy! E.S.M.L. A.K.A. Howie, So I'm cool when- I'm drunk, Huh? Too bad you don't like me the rest of the time. Well, you'll like me this weekend. A.K.A. Beth. Congratulations Zeta Beta Tau Intramural Basketball Champions! ! ! Lisa, Sorry you mi~sed a great weekend in Pennsylvania. T. ,COLGATE UNIVERSITY ' ... invites you to consider a career in teaching. Colgate_ University offers the J.\.1:a$ters of Arts in Teaching degree to liberal arts graduates interested in teaching high school science, mathematics, English, and social studies. Generous financial aid is av~ilable to qualified students. For more information w.fite .to: George E. De Boer, Chairperson, Department of Education, Colgate University, Hamilton, NY 13346/Phone: (315) 824-1000. Don't get wrecked. If you're not sober - or you're·not sure - · let someone else do the driving. A message provided by this newspaper and Beer Drinkers of America. I f ! . I I I ·t ·' ~- I, ,. !• ' I !'

,. ,. ' ~ t i '! I ·' ~- ;I ' •, l ! f J I I, ,. !I ' I .. ., * * * *' *· * * *· * * * * * * * * * * * * * 9* * * : * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *' * * * * * * * * * * * * * . CONCORDIENSIS November 10, 1988 GAMMA PHI BETA: Nove1nber 11, 18.74- November 11, 1988 One Hundred and Fourteen Years - -- We know ••• Way to go Gamma Pl:ii Beta! But ·YOU're nor too ·busy to ge.t in: volv~. G.ive a little tirne and gain, the satisfaction of knowing you have impact on the lives .of Jews in Israel, in your own com- munity, on your Ci!fmpus and in the many countries around the world. Your invotvement Ciln make the differ- ence. Join our United Jewish Appeal/federation student campaign. Contact AMy Oltchick 3·86-4365 . . Page 21 ·~----~,_~\'.............._~............_~ ~.-........ ~ ..,.....___~----\\~~-------- ~..,.....___~~-.,. ~\-~-~-1-~ . . THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10 7/oca[ & t£[ectr0nic Cabaret · 9:00 PM COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM - I. Dutch Pipers- Acapello Men.-s Singing Group: Du-op Collegiate Songs & R&R II. C_om.posers With Tape From ARS 43 - . Piec.es and _performances r·anging from original music ·to G.F. Handel to Jimi Hendrix, through. drum machines, synthesizers a:t;1d processed natural sounds. ' < • * * * * * * * '*' * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * i ~ ~-v---......\ ~ ~ ~---- ~--... ~.......___ ~.--........ ~----- .... ...__ ~-- ~ --:--..... \' .............. ~---....._..' ,--,...._ ~ --... ~ ~~ ' ...,_ ~ ............... ~ ............. ~---.. ~ ----~~ ..-...........~ ............... ~ . ..~ .... ... :

., Page 22 CONCORDIENS7S November 10~ 1988 SPORTS MONTH 'NOVEMBER SATURDAY 11/12 Hockey vs. Babson · Men's and Women's Swimming at Albany Belays SUNDAY 11/13 JV Hockey vs. Oy.s1e.r Bay . TUESDAY 11/15 Hockey.-vs. Potsdam Women's Swimming at Skidmore SATURDAY 11/26 . Hockey vs. Hobart SUNDAY 11/27 Men's Basketball- Capital District Tourney at Skidmore . MONDAY 11/28 Men's Basketball - Capital District Tourney at Skidmore Union Fenci~g Opens Season By KENNETH OROSZ Last weekend Un1011's fencing team went to Siena for its first competition of tile year. Despite severe equipment problems the inexperienct;jd team fared extremely well. There are 3 weapon classes in fencing. Foil, the most popular, has a thin blade used for stabbing. Epee, similar to foil, has a less flexible blade and uses the eotire body as ·a target rather than just the tors(). Least popular is sabre. a cutting weapoo used for attacks on the head, arms and torso. Of the 3, Union fenced only fO-il and sabre in Saturday•s , competition. Team members fenc-e independently in elimination · rounds composed of pools of :6 fencers. The top 4 from each pool go on to the semifinals and, eventually, the finals. Foil cornpetltlon is JUdged electrically while sabre relies on four judges to determine hits on the two opponents. Union was led Saturday by foilists Eugene Spagnuolo, Keitb Sultan and Ken Orosz, all of whom progress<!d to the semi-finals. Sultan continued on the finals and captured third place for Union. Freshman Marc Unger also put in a stron~ showing, contributing to the success of the team. In sabre)(en Orosz, the only one from · Union. to fence this . weapon; placed sixth. Tfie fencing team is looking forward to a successful winter term and welcome all to join us when we practice in the Alumni Gym. Union Squashes Opponents By SQUASH TEAM The Union Squash team won another \B\ league match on Wednesday, November 2nd at home, and remained undefeated. They beat an abbreviated team from The Fort Orange Club ()f Albany, 4-l. Playing #1 fM Union, Jason Albert made an exciting comeback from two games down to tie the match but lost a very close 5th game. Brothers Sandy .and Jack Vohi . played weil and' won at the #2 and #3 positions. The Union \C\ league team also triumphed in their match against always tough SUNY. Playing. at #2, and knowing that he had to win, Prof. Bill Zwicker won the deciding match. On November 9th, the ''B\ league will host RPI, while the \C\ league will host the University Club's \Gent's\ team on the lOth. DECEMBER 7:30 1 :.()0 SATURDAY 12/2 Hockey vs. Norwich Women's Basketball at· Gordon Tounrey ·(Amherst) 7:30 6:00 & 8:00 SUNDAY 12/3 · Basketball vs. Hobart .. 8:00 Wo:men:s Basketball at Gordon Tourney Women's Swi,mming ... Uni:on ·Invitational 1:00 & 3:00 1:00 1.:00 7:30 7:00 7:30 6:30 & 8:00 1:00 & 3:00 TUES:DAY 12/5 Hockey vs. AIG • WEDNESDAY 12/6 Women's 'Basketball at Hamilton THURS·DA Y 12/7 Men's basketball at Vassar Men's & Women's Swimming· vs. Middlebury FRIDAY ·12/8 Women's Basketball at Dominican SATURDAY 1·2/9 Basketball vs. Plattsburgh \ Hockey at Holy Cross SUNDAY 12'110 Women's Bas-ketball at New Paltz 7:30 7:00 8:00 3:30 7:00 8:00 7:00 2:00 CONCORDIENSIS SPORT.S NEEDS YOU!- If you want to wiite for Concordiensis Sports next term, send your - name and phone number to box 2281. Don'tletwm:g~assesblur therr vtston. - Whether a glass holds12 ounces of beer, 5.ounces of w1ne, or llf4 ounces of spirits, the alcohol ()()ntent is the same. It's important to know this because the size and shape of the glass can give people a distorted impression ofhow much alcohol they're actually drinking; . So when you'reout to share some cheer with friends, remern~r how ril.uch alcohol is in youl\ glass and that drinking sensib[J lets you hold things in focus, Always keep safe ~riving within ~ur sight. A -public service mess8ge from 'WillC/lqgrrs ltlstitUte ··

. CONCORDJENSIS . November 10, 1988 \'.Jo Page 23 Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER P¢ople say tllat age makes a person wiser~ :But in the fast changing world of professional football, age is a detriment. It does more than dictate the length of players' careers. It also deterlnines the decisions and POlicies of certain coaches and organiZations. Past successes help to shield on~ from the changes ,of. the ,present~ The. feeling is, that if something once worked, don't fix· it. But for the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Dallas Cowboys .in 1:988, very little is working at all. · These two teams epitomized success in the seventies. They accounted for six of the ten SuJ)er Bowl victories in the decade. Pittsburgh _won four titles, beating Dallas twice, while the Cowboys won two Super Bowls of their own. In the first thirteen Super Bow1s, these two powers accounted for nine of the possible twenty-six teams. This is a staggering. number when one considers that there are twenty-eight teams in the National Football League. Much of the credit for the success of the Steelers and the Cowboys was given to their two coaches, and it was well deserved. Steelers coach Chuck Noll took over a team in 1969 that had never made , the playoffs -- a drought that has fasted over thirty · years. Cowboys mentor Tom Landry has been the only coach in the history of the fr.anchise~ which joined the leag11e in 1962, and led his ~am to twenty years of stardom. They were truly 'America\s teanl.' , The teams that N oil and L811dty guided in the seventies are .today only shells of the teams they used to be. After ten weeks of the current football season, both . Pittsburgh and Dallas are in last- place of th:eir respective divisions with 2;.8 records. One of the Steelers' two wins was against the Cowboys on opening day, The dynasties are long deac4 and show· no signs of revitalization', Most of the problems come from witruri· the organizations themselv~s. They are not ch,anging with the times; or updating their philosophies. Old habits are hard to break, but when they don~t work, they need to~ ~e re-evaluated and reconsttuclled. 'rhe game of football is not the same today as it was ten years ago. Rules have been changed, and the players have become stronger and faster~ Chuck Noll and Tom Landry, however~ have not changed along with the game. Their coaching ability has not changed; they are ,still both ·capable .of winning. But they are not coaching for 1988, they're stin in 1975. Noll's Steelers were famous for their defense, the 'S tee I Curtain.' He has always str-essed the importance of defense, and has always tried to win with ,it .. But the Steelers' problems <to not lie within their defensive unit; it is their offense wbich needs to be revitalized. They are a. Ill1111ing team, notGrious for the trap play, a play which Franco Harris and Rocky Bleier made famous. Butthe defenses today have no trouble stopping the Steelers' mnning game. Since Harris' departure in 1983, their offense had had trouble moving the ball and scoring points. The fact th.at they lack a top- notch starting quarterback is immaterial. They will never be, a passing team, unless Terry Bradshaw, Lynn Swan,· and John Stallworth come out of retirement. In their .bey-day, Dallas was famous for making miraculous comebacks. They r~lied on the skills of Roger Staubacl\ their Hall of Fame quarterback, to lead them out of the clutches of defeat and into the hands of THE WRITIN'G CENTER victory; They did not have the league's best offense or defense. ·Both were solid, and both had many future Hall of Famers, but today they are outdated .. The Dallas offensive line s.till hitches before every play. It's also too predictable; only four teams have scored fewer points than the· Cowboys. They also still employ the 'Flex' defense. They have one of the only 'real' . 4-3 defenses remaining in the league. Teams like Chicago . and Philadelphia. have moved to the now more popular 4-6. · Both Dallas and Pittsburgh are .still using the defense that worked for them during their , • glory years. Unfortunately, the · · · offenses are not the same as they used to be. One cannot lay all the blame • on Chuck Noll and Tom : Landry, however. They only · coach the players; it's management who brings players in. The fact is plain and simple; their talent 1eve11s not · as high as it was in the 70's. While it's true that one bad draft does not ruin a team,. neither the Steelers or Cowboys have had a good one this decade. It's sad to hear boos and criticism for Chuck Noll and Tom Landry. They are two of the most successfi.d coaches in the history of the N.F.L. Landry has had to endure the embarrassment of a newspaper call-in poll. Sixty percent of the people said he should retire. I happen to agree. ·The sad part is that we are the same idiots who eight years ago claimed that Landry was a combination of Houdini and Einstein. Noll has also had to endure criticism. Though it seems hypocritical to denounce two of the game's greatest coaches, football is a game that needs to be won. And if there is something that keeps a team from wjnning, it needs to be .changed. Chuck Noll and Tom Landry need to be changed. Soon! I will close on Wedne~d~y at lO:OOp.m. I See you in 1989 . .No~~mGS.£ - ·• : ~·. \' . ~ q . JO · i I ~2. . -:-·:\-'\' ~---~-- • .....:=-+- . ........__ -~·--·-- .· 13. l!fjli •. ~.~'>·~ 11 IS iC;l ·-; ·-· ~--~- ; :lO ;U :a g3 ' :1.'- ~ . Ole ' r.- ·--~ ......... _ .. - _,--· a.7 l8 :zq .5<)·. ' . Qtontnrb itns is SPORTS SPORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ BY GREG GOETZ Sugar Ray Leonard 'knocked 011t Donny Lalonde and became the second peison to ever win five titles in five different weight classes. This feat has done nothing for the :wort, and in fact, has been a detriment to it. It is ridiculous that Lalonde lost his belt, the light- heavyweight championship, in a bout where he weighed less than the mimimum of that weight class. Leonard is originally· a welterweight, tlie 146-pound division, and has won other belts, in other weight classes, fighting as heavy as 160 pounds. Monday nigilt, he won a championsbip in a weight class that he's ne:ver fought in. What purpose do different divisions serve if the reason for ha:ving them is ignored. If the governing body which sanctioned this bout, the World Boxing_ Council, had taken its job seriously, then they would not have allowed this fight to take place. Instead tltey created a new weight class,. the super middleweight, so both fighters could weigh about the same: Leonard gained about seven pounds and Lalonde lost at least eight. Sugar Ray Leonard was once a great champion. Now, he sees himself as more · important than the sport itself. He fights for self~gratification, and the extenttowhich his ego is his motivation implies that he does not fight for the love of boxing. Leonard had nothing to lose, except for the fight itself. And he would make his 15 million regal'dless of the outcome. Si11ce his first retirement, he has not made a C'omeback without a championship teing at stake. In his previous fight, he would not face Marvin Hagler unless his demands for a smaller and shorter bout were met. Hagler was the champi()n, he had the title, and Leonard took it away from him even before a .punch was thrown. In all of his comebacks; Leonard has been the challenger and has called tbe shots. Some may call this intelligence, I call it unmitigated arrogance. At the weigh-in~ Leonard twice refused to shake hands with the, then, champion. Weeks before the fight~ Leonard fired his Jong-time rnaruger, Angelo Dundee, who had inspired Leonard in many ()f his earlier fights. This act represents his indifference to the sport and his ·duty as a champi()n, to serve as a role model which he had been in the past. ' HOOP SEASON IS COMING! -Watch for weekly articles this winter. I

\v Cheap shots ·couldn't stop a scrappy Union Hockey team as they 1· stunned powerhouse rivals RPI 4·3 in overtime. Union beat Fairleigh Dickenson 1-0 and clinched the ECAC title. The goal was, scored by Couftney Lynch, pictured above in .an earlier game. 0-------------------------------------------------------------------·-·----~--~-~-~ -. Novernb~r 10, 1988 Skating Dutchmen Surprise Engineers 'I ,and Crowd in 4-3 Overti,me Win By ANDREW SEEWALD Tim Cregan took a breaking pass from Terry Campbell and scored past RPI goalie Steve Duncan less than 2 minutes into overtime to give Union a 4-3 victory over the Engineers in their first regular season game of the season. People knew that Union had a good hockey team coming into the season. A favorable schedule that had the Dutchmen at home for 9 of their first 10 games suggested that the.y might even get off to a fast start, something they were unable to do last year. Last year when Union travelled to the RPI Fieldhouse, Troy came away with a humiliating 13-0 loss. This year, under the friendly dome of Achiles Rink, the Dutchmen defeated the rival Engineers 4-3. A 4-3 overtime win might not ov:erwhelm the average sports fan, but for those fans who crammed into Achiles Rink last Saturday night, the Dutchmen ·might as well have won 44-3. Union Is Changing ... Concordiensis is changing too! Watch Us. Read Concordie nsis every week! Why all the excitement? RPI is a traditional Division I powerhouse and won the NCAA championship in 1985. Union is in Division II of the ECAC and Division lii ·of the NCAA. So, while Union has played some dose games against the Engineers in recent ye!lfS, it'$ not a game they're supp<>sed to win. Coach Bruce Delventhal, in his ina~gural season with the Dutchmen, did not hesitate irt answering positively when he was asked whether his team could beat RPI. His counterpart, Mike Adessa of RPI, did not give the Dutchmen a chance, however. On television before the game, he told viewers that he instructed his team not to score more than ten goals, so as not to embarrass Union at home. But hard work and solid defense by the Dutchmen made Adessa's words explode in his face. Three times the Engineers jumped ahead, and each time the Dutchmen came right back. Union never allowed their intensity to wane. This was especially true in the third period. Trailing ,3-2 with time running out, Union buzze.d around the ice, but was unable to get off quality shots on goal. With 1: 10 to play, the Dutchmen forced a faeeoff deep in the RPI z.one. At that point, Coach Delventhal opted to pull goalie Ron Kinghorn for an extra attacker. The move paid off as Union bombarded Duncan· with shots. Finally, Marc Goguen sent a puck into the slot that ~eflected off the skate of an RPI defenseman and into the net, and the game was· tied. Goguen had two goals in the game. In addition to Cregan's. gamewinner, Dan Gould had the other Du.tchmen goal, a shorthanded effort in the first period. Ron Kinghorn played outStandingly in the Union net, allowing goals only while the Dutchmen were short- handed ... Union hosted Elmira last night in the f'rrst divisional game of the season. This Saturday night, the Dutchmen host. Babson at 7:30. Radio coverage will begin at 7 P.M. on WRUC 89.7 FM. Field Hockey Wins ECAC T-itle By MARK T. ZIMMERMAN. Associate Sports Editor The Field Hockey season ended this past Sunday with a victory over Farleigh Dickinson University. The victory gave Union the ECAC Division 3 title. Union was seeded fust going into the tournament and proved why. In the team's first game on Satur~ay, Lynn Hyde scored 2 goals entoute to a 2-1 victory over Montclaire State. Carolyn Hardy and Heidi Groener had the assists. On Sunday, Union's final game of the season was ,played. When the final seconds ticked off the clock, Union held a 1-0 victory and the ECAC title. The winning goal was scored by Courtney Lynch on a pass from Anne M11lvaney. Union finished the season with an overm record .of 17-1, the best ever record since the inception of the field hocky program in 1975. Congratulations to Coach Robert and the entire team. Dutch:men Defense Doo.:ms Cadets BY AND.REW SEEWALD The Union football team scored 10 fttst-half points and Jrotected the lead. with stubborn defense in the second . llalf en route to a 10-8 victory over the NoJ;\wich Academy Cadets at Northfield, Vermont ·. last Saturday. The victory this Saturday at Hamilton would. · lift. the team to its· second mnsecutive .500 season. For the season, the Dutchmen have allowed just 15.4 points per game. Over • .their last three games th,ey have yielded only 25 points, collecting two victories in that · ~pan. Union's defense has been especially tough in the second ltalf, and, although the only points scored against them came in the second half, this pattern held true against . Norwich. After the break, the Cadets collld manage paltry totals of ll passing yards and 58 · 'r\sh-ilig yards, gaining just 4 first downs, The Dutchmen <l:efensive dominance was not more evident than on one sequence late in the bailgame. A 32-yard rush gave Norwich a filst and goal on the Union 5 . But the Cadets were canned as l:,Jnion put on a textbook g<>al-line stand. T\lffiovers were also a key element in Union's success, a D()table change from the pattern tllat had plagued the team for mu.cb -of the season. Thorn McMahon, Tim McClees and Mark Caruso all had i11terceptions, and McClees ~so recovered a fumble. Norwich's only points for the ' game resulted from a botched punt attempt from deep in Union's end The Dutchmen scored early and late in the .first half. On its first possession of the game, . l}nion moun.ted an impressive 12-play, 65~ycu:d drive-for a 7~0 lead,, an.d it looked like the Dutchmen might be able to enjoy an easy afternoon on the soggy grass of Norwich. However, the only additional offense the team could muster would be a 41-yard field goal by Jason Kraul!e with time winding down in the second quarter. Krause has made good on 9 of his 11 field goal attempts this season. The Dutchmen did manage to eat up a lot of time with an effective ground game. Junior Ryan Mason, who bas been hampered by injuries much of the season, rushed for 103 yards on 21 attt}mpts, including a 3-yard touchdown run. Senior tailback Horace Griffin gained 69 yards to increase his team- leading season-total to 463 yards on the ground. Junior tackle Greg Hallas had two-and-one-half quarterback sacks to give him 14 on the year, one short of the Union team record .•. McMahon made or assisted in 18 tackles to remain atop the team leader board .. Saturday's season finale vs. Hamilton is a 1 P.M. -start, with the pregame .show on WRUC 89.7 FM beginning at noon. Last year, Hamilton defeated the Dutchmen, 17~7 in Schenectady. the Continentals sport a 5·2 record, seeking th~ir third 6-..2 season in the last four years. SUPPORT UNION S·PORTS

