·. •• . . College 1877 ~· . \ Vol't CXVIII, N~... 11 S~henectady, New York I Substantial Tuition Increase Pro,posed At Board Of Truste·es' Me·eting Professor Lawrence Hollander, New Dean of Engineering. College Promotes Visitillg Professor To Dean Of Engineering Department rJJ: ::· <· By R. REEO WHIDDEN News Editor ::i· ~ . Tlie University Club in New York City was once again the meeting place of the Board' of Trustees on Wednesday, January 18. 'Tradition upheld, the student tn.J.stees, the rest of the Board. and the Trustee Board of Advisors began their work with an afternoon meeting and a social dinner on · . the preceding Tuesday. The ne~t morning, the day long meeting began at 8:00 ·a.m. The agenda for the Committee called for reports from the subcommittees on Finance, . for a dinner that night. The dinner on Tuesday night was an unprecedented one. This body is in existence for the sake of . the College's future. It is compesed of \individuals representing broad capabilities · · and professional and cultural knowledge.\ Their purpose is to provide valuable resources and extemal contacts, and to \transmitting information to and from the College.\ After Tuesday's events for lbe Trustee Board of Advisors, the Finance Committee was the first to give their report at 8:00am on Wednesday. It was ·.reported to the Committee that By JAY FREE.LAND News Editqr Edison ·co. and American Gas Associati<>n. PROPOSED TU1TION, HOUSING .AND FOOD CHARGES 1989-1990 P:cofesspr llollanc:ler llas also ru1TION Full-lime day Undergraduate }[()USING Mvst Common Double FOOD CONTRACT 19Meals/Week TOTAl. TUITION, HOUSING AND FOOD CONTRACT 19&8·8~ - :P.erCC!lt Charges Incr.easll $12,175 9.7% $2,22() $2,07() $16,465 9.5% 9.5% TOTAL $13,255 $2,430 $2,265 $18,050 On Januarylst of this yoem~ serv~d as _the .exe.cutive the Union College Engineering secretary of the State_ Board of · Department received a new Engineering and Land · Dean as Professor Edward J. · Surveying for the Board .of Craig stepped down fr(Jm llis Regents. In this position, position. Hoping to . Hollander worked under the concentrate more on teaching at . · licensing division. Since Union, Professor Craig '9las· engineering is a licensed replaced by Visiting Prcf.essor · profession; engineering of Electrical Engin~.et;i.ng stUdents must take a two-part Lawrence Hollander, a member exam. The first part is taken of the Union faculty smce during tllei( senior year and the Student Affairs, Buildings, the C()Jlege is doing well with 1986. · second part is taken after foilr Grounds and Equipment, returns from the endowment. In Although this is a new years of internship experience._ · Budget and Audit, College reviewing the portfolio, it was position for him at Union, Upon passing the exam, Resources, and Academic reported that the performances f, Affairs. f b h Pro essor Hollander is not students receive their license · o · · ot money managers without experience in tbis lioe from the division and may then · The meeting on Tuesday was Towneley Capitol and Sanford of work. Before comillg to go into the work force as a with the Trustee Board ·Of Bernstein ·and Company as Union, PrOfessor Hollander certifiedengineer. Advisors. They met with investment firms. was was the Associate Dean of the Pro.fe ssor Hollander's executive members of the favorable. When compared with School of Engineering at specialty is power machinery. Board at 4 p.rn. and were later market indexes the results were Cooper Union in New York · Cont:lnued on page 4 joined: by the rest of the Board Continued on page 3 City. Professor Hollander has ---=------......:.;;.....:::...-----.--------------_:_-----.==:==....:.::....!::.::.:..:_:_ ~h~:::!:~v~~~s~~~~~::~ Maranville Refutes National Report :fs~~~::~~:~r~~~s:~~~ -On Deterioration Of The Nott Memorial By ELISE. FOODY News Editor stated, \the building is nc.t ~n any danger, and sttucturallv it is fine.\ He also mentioned The report from the National · . that the College has had several Park Service of the United . engineering reportsd9ne on lhe States Department of the . Memorial by William Hall Interior asserts that Associates located in New \stabilization measures to York City. Maranville protect t]le Nott Memorial questioned the validity of the should he undertaken report especially after reading immediately\ and that \full statements contained within it restoration is recommended;' In · which claimed Lhat the building their 19·88 Report on has been vacant. He declared Threatened National Historic that .the Memorial housed the Landmarks, the National Park College bookstore until last Service pinpointed Union's · year, and currently hosts infamous Nott Memorial as a • various theater productions. It building suffering \severe is also still regularly heated. · physical deterioration which is Needless to say, Maranville · rapidly accelerating and stated that it is not a building threatening the stn:rcture of the being· ignored. It is rather a b.· uilcling~\ · question of identifying current Vice -President of campus needs, the function of Institutienal Planning, Jack the Memorial and how much estimated total expenses to be from seven to ten million dollars. Presently, the College is seeking any available funding Continued on page 3 February 2, 1989 New Coed Fraternity Stems From Dartmouth Delta Psi Delta IF:C To Vote On Acceptance February 7 By JENNIFER HOLMES A unique addition to the Greek system is under consideration: the establishment .of a coed fraternity, Delta Psi Delta. Melissa Bloom and Carolee Allen originated the idea of bringing a coed fraternity to the Union College campus \as another option in Greek life.\ Duri11g the past summer they visited .Dartmouth which has five coed fraternities and were impressed witb what they saw and felt at the fraternity Delta Psi(Delta. The coed fratetnity works well at Dartmouth. At Bowdoin, the dean strictly enforces coed fraternities and does not allow the existence of single sex fraternities or sororities on campus. One national coed fraternity whose headquarters is in Illinois exists. Most other coed fraternities break off from th.eir national fraternity and become local. Delta Psi Delta is a local coed fraternity. Most have_ been very supportive of a coed fraternity including Dean Alford, Dean Underwood, and Dean Marnmo1a. When. presented with the idea, the IFC seemed curious and will be voting whether or not to accept Delta Psi Delta on February 7th. Currently theFe are fourteen members with Melissa Bloom being president and Craig Summers, vice-president. Members of the Delta Psi Delta fraternity at Dartmouth will be coming up to Union one weekend in February to initiate the members. The Continued on page 3 Maranville disagrees with the money it will cost the College statements in the report. He to undertake the project. He . · PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The ghost ot Winter terms past. .. ' '' ., :~ i: I • I I ' . I I. ,,

' ' ;. i ;. \ I l! .: !I 1: 1 ' lj .I Vol. CXVIII, No~ 11 Professor Lawrence Hollander, New Dean of Engineering. College Promotes Visiting Professor To Dean Of Engineering Department By JAY FREELAND News Editor On January 1st of this year, the Union College Engineering Department received a new Dean as Professor Edward J. Craig stepped down from his position. Hoping to concentrate more on teaching at Union, Professor Craig was· replaced by Visiting Professor of Electrical Engineering Lawrence Hollander, a member of the Union faculty since 1986. Edison Co. and American Gas Association. Professor Hollander has also served as the executive secretary of the State Board of Engineering and Land Surveying for the Board of Regents. In this position, Hollander worked under the licensing division. Since engineering is a licensed profession, engineering students must take a two-part exam. The first part is taken during their senior year and the second part is taken after four years of internship experience. Upon passing the exam, students receive their license from the division and may then go into the work force as a certified engineer. Professor Hollander's specialty is power machinery, Continued on page 4 Schenectady, New York Substantial Tuition Increase Proposed At Board Of Trustees' Meeting B:v R. REED WHlDDEN News Editor The University Club in New York City was once again the meeting place of the Board of Trustees on Wednesday, January 18. Tradition upheld, the student trustees, the rest of the Board, and the Trustee Board of Advisors began their work with an afternoon meeting and a social dinner on the preceding Tuesday. The next morning, the day long meeting began at 8:00 a.In. The agenda for the Committee called for reports from the subcommittees on Finance, for a dinner that night. The dinner on Tuesday night was an unprecedented one. This body is in existence for the sake of the College's future. It is composed of \individuals representing broad capabilities and professional and cultural knowledge.\ Their purpose is to provide valuable resources and external contacts, and to \transmitting information to and from the College.\ After Tuesday's events for the TrHstee Board of Advisors, the Finance Committee was the first to give their report at 8:00am on Wednesday. It was reported to the Committee that PROPOSED TUITION, HOUSING AND FOOD CHARGES 1989-1990 19 8 8-8 9 Percent Charges Increase $12,175 9.7% TOTAL $13,255 TUITION Full-time day Undergraduate l!OUSING Most Common Double FOOD CONTRACT 19 Meals/Week IDTAL TUITION, !lOUSING AND JlOOD CONTRACT $2,22() $2,()7() $16,465 Student Affairs, Buildings, Grounds and Equipment, Budget and Audit, College Resources, and Academic Affairs. The meeting on Tuesday was with the Trustee Board of Advisors. They met with executive members of the Board at 4 p.m. and were later joined by the rest of the Board 9.5% 9.5% 9.63% $2,430 $2,265 $18,050 the College is doing well with returns from the endowment. In reviewing the portfolio, it was reported that the performances of both money managers Towneley Capitol and Sanford Bernstein ·and Company as investment firms was favorable. When compared with market indexes the results were Continued on page 3 Although this is a new positioR for him at Union, Professor Hollander is not without experience in this line of work. Before coming to Union, Professor Hollander was the Associate Dean of the School of Engineering at Cooper Union in New York City. Professor Hollander has taught at New York University where he received his bachelor's and master's degrees, and has also worked for Consolidated Maranville Refutes National Report On Deterioration Of The Nett Memorial ,Tenslqn· In T~e West Bank. ~p-·_ .. 11, By ELISE FOODY News Editor The report from the National Park Service of the United States Department of the Interior asserts that \stabilization measures to protect the Nott Memorial should be undertaken immediately\ and that \full restoration is recommended.\ In their 1988 Report on Threatened National Historic Landmarks, the National Park Service pinpointed Union's infamous Nett Memorial as a building suffering \.severe physical deterioration which is rapidly accelerating and threatening the structure of the building.\ Vice-President of stated, \the building is net ~n any danger, and structurallv it is fine.\ He also mentioned that the College has had several engineering reports done on the Memorial by William Hall Associates located in New York City. Maranville questioned the validity of the report especially after reading statements contained within it which claimed that the building has been vacant. He declared tbat the Memorial housed the Col'legc bookstore until last year, and currently hosts various theater productions. It is also still regularly heated. estimated total expenses to be from seven to ten mill ion dollars. Presently, the College is seeking any available funding ConUnued on page 3 February 2, 1989 New Coed Fraternity Stems From Dartmouth Delta Psi Delta IFC To Vote On Acceptance February 7 By JENNIFER HOLMES A unique addition to the Greek system is under consideration: the establishment of a coed fraternity, Delta Psi Delta. Melissa Bloom and Carolee Allen originated the idea of bringing a coed fraternity to the Union College campus \as another option in Greek life.\ During the past summer they visited Dartmouth which has five coed fraternities and were impressed with what they saw and felt at the fraternity Delta Psi/Delta. The coed fraternity works well at Dartmouth. At Bowdoin, the dean strictly enforces coed fraternities and does not allow the existence of single sex fraternities or sororities on campus. One national coed fraternity whose headquarters is in Illinois exists. Most other coed fraternities break off from their national fraternity and become local. Delta Psi Delta is a local coed fraternity. Most have been very supportive of a coed fraternity including Dean Alford, Dean Underwood, and Dean Mammola. When presented with the idea, the IFC seemed curious and will be voting whether or not to accept Della Psi Delta on February 7th. Currently there are fourteen members with Melissa Bloom being president and Craig Summers, vice-president. Members of the Delta Psi . Delta fraternity at Dartmouth will be coming up to Union one weekend in February to initiate the members. The Continued on page 3 I i I 1- ~ U1 <( tl UJ Ill UJ 0: > Ill 0 b I 0.. In sti tu tional Planning, Jack Maranville disagrees with the statements in the report. He Needless to say, Maranville stated that it is not a building being ignored. It is rather a question of identifying current campus needs, the function of the Memorial and how much money it will cost the College to undertake the project. He PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The ghost ot Wmter terms past.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 Ctlnncurbi.en.&ts NEWS ANALYSIS By BRAD MONDSCUEIN The New York Times reported that the Reverend Jesse Jackson is initiating a new movement for the referring of blacks as African-Americans. The movement is seen by many as a step in the right direction for the black community. There ary skeptics though, mostly older blacks who ha:v:e seen name changes before, that believe the change will take away from attention paid to social problems. Many also feel that they are not African-Americans and nave no association with the Continent. Leaders of the movement By KEITH BEMIS This Saturday will mark the one year anniversary of the Restore The Nott Student· Initiative. Over the past year, the Student Initiative has worked hard at its three goals in striving to get the Nott Memorial restored. Its goal of raising funds has not achieved tens of thousands of dollars, but has received checks for the UNION REVIEW OF BOOKS February Selection by I.F. Stone The Trial of Socrates · February 15, 1989 College Center, 1:00 sharp, Mobil Lounge, 4th Floor Moderators: Jan ludwig and Jon Marincola The February selection Is now on sale at the Bookstore for one·half the retail price~ Reverend Jesse Jackson Initiates New Movement F.or African-Americans point out that the name change movement is important to end the social racism by changing the definition from a racial description, black, to an ethnic description, Afriean·Ainerican. Jesse Jackson points out that \Black tells you about skin color and what side .c)f town you live on. African-American evokes discussion of the world.\ The debate comes at a time when many ethnic peoples are looking to ma:ke a clear definition .of who they are. Jews in Israel are being confronted with the \Who is a Jew\ controversy, Hispanic Americans are arguing over the term, Latino or Hispanic and Asian-Americans are trying to have delineations into the Leaders of the movement point out that the name change ·movement is important to end the social racism by changing the definition from a racial description, black, to an ethnic description, African- American. nationalities that make up Asia. Although there are many J Restore The Nott Committee Refle:cts On Year's Accomplishments. restoration fund as well as promoting the fund to the Class of '88 enough that their gift fund was given for the restoration ,of the Nott Memorial. The group has accomplished raising the campus awareness about the condition of the Nott Memorial and what is being done or, in , fact, what is not being done to get the building restored. It has also sparked community interest in the restoration. Finally,- the purpose for a restored Nott Memorial was sought out by the members of the committee. Through discussions with experts and members of the campus at an open forum, a proposal was formulated which entailed what should be placed in a restored Nott Memorial to best It has been discovered that the College completed an .application for· state funds . • • However,. it has been reported that this completed application was never .submitted. exemplify its meaning. This has been a very successful year for the group in this respect, THE -BOTTOM LINE Topic To Be Announced Sunday 9:00-10:00 p.m. 89.7 WRUC .................................................................................................. i \WHAT SHOULD A JEW BELIEVE?\ i . . - i '''NOTHING,\ Says Menachem Kellner. i • • 0 $ e • • • • • : Professor Menachem Kellner, one of Isreal's : • • : leading phil6sophers of Jewish thought will be : : speaking on the·nature of religious faith and its i ! connection to the nature of man at the Kosher ! • • : Kitchen on Tuesday, February 7, at 6:00. : 0 • 0 • . ~ • • 0 • • i Dessert and coffee and the opportunity to discuss current : : Israeli Politics will accompany the lecture. All are i 0 0 :welcome to. attend. : ·················································································~···· people who do not :favor the change, Dr. Ramona Edelin said that \There were bitter · battles when we went from 'Negro' to 'Black•. We don~t want this that this time.\ She went :on to say that there is an ';overwhelming consensus\ for the change. The term is already making strides in New York City. Two of the largest black-oriented radio stations, WWRL and WLJB, say that more Hst~ners are· referring to themselves· as African-Americans but slip back to referring tO themselves as black. This suggests that the new lang.qage has not fully tal;cen hold. ' · Dictionary editors are being cautious about the change being printed in .a dictionary.· ''We would . have to see a preponderance of citations to make such a drastic change.,\ said Eugene S.chewmaker, senior editor of Random House dictionaries. Althou,gh some but ·it still fights an uphi11 battle. · ·· The Restore The Nott Student Initiative is continuing to find evidence that the Administration is not serious in trying to get the Nott . Memorial restored. It has been discovered ,that the College completed an application for state funds under the Environmental Quality Bond Act for the Nott Memorial. However, it bas been reported to the group that this completed application was never submitted due to a vote in the College hierarchy. Now the College has lost an opportunity to gal:n some reasonable amount of funds from the State due to this state fund growing much smaller since it was first estabiished. The main goal for the Student Initiative this year is to continue their efforts in -piacin,g presssure on the businesses have been cautious abo~t using the new reference,. several schooi districts in Atlant~ · and Chicago have adopted the terms into their curriculum. TJte term is also getting support from tennis star Aithur · Although some bu~inesses have been cautious about using the new reference., several school districts in Atlanta and Chicago 'have ·.adopted the ter:ms into t~ir curriculum. Ashe: \African-American is much more appropriate and · correct than Afro-American or black or any other alternative,'' It is with- this Support and determination that the term . . . 'African-American' will take over the place of 'Blacli:t. Adminis'tration to move forward on the re~toration of the Nott Memorial. The· group hopes to get the alumni involved and to see a discussion and a vote occur at the Board of Trustees meeting . Also, the ·group is expecting a report from the Department of the· Interior that wili. greatly help their cause. The group has had their efforts endorsed by the Philip Livingston Chapter of the Soris of the Revolution, the Schenectady County Historical Society, .former U.S. Congressman Samuel Stratton, State Senator Hugh Farley, State ·Assemblyman James Tedisco, and Schenectady Mayor. Karen Johnson. It has also been encouraged by the Department o( Interior and the Commissioner of State Parks and ·Recreation Office. The group thanks all who have helpea them this past year. A Women's Commission Lunchtime Colloquium · · with Sheila Tobias Friday, February 3rd 12:30 ~ 1:30 cc 409 Brown Bag Lunch Beverages will be Available Sheila Tobias will speak Qn the topic: What Makes an Issue a Feminist Issue? Ms. Tobias' presentation will be followed by an informal discussion of her presentation and issues related to women. Sheila Tobias .sees herself as a feminist and a demystifier of technical infonnation· for students of all ages. She is a pioneer in the analysis of math and science anxiety and avoidance and is the author of two books 'for the math avoidant: Overcoming Math· Anxiety (1918) and Succeed with Math {1987). She has also. authored two books on defense and militarism, Tbe People's Guide to National Defense (1982), and Women, Militarism, and War (1988) and . multiple .articles. Sheila Tobias holds a B.A. degree in history and literature from Harvard-Radcliffe and two masters in history and philosopl}y from Columbia University. She is the recipient of a Ford Individual Fellow award, grants from. FIPSE, NSF, Rockefeller and the Lilly Foundation, and was a 1988 nominee :for the Dana Award in Innovations -in Education. ·She is a Visiting Scholar in Political Science at the University of Arizona in Tucson. · Please note that this colloquium will replace the regularly scheduled lunch meeting for Thursday, February 2nd. -l

I ' i CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 Page 3 8udget,···EndoWment, College Resources Discussed At Trustees' Me:eting Continued from page 1 merely discussed. good, Fiduciary Trust :ls faring Finally,theStudent Affairs better with longer tenn results Committee brought to the against market indexes. board the Career Development The next report came from Center's Survey of the Class of the Dean of Students, Joseph 1987. With an· 86 percent Mammola, for the Student · · participation in the survey, the Affairs Committee. He C.D.C. has compiled a report commented on such events of on the career plans .of these the past term as the death of Union graduates. sophomore Dylan Kelley, the The next committee to report appointment of Patricia was the Buildings, Grounds and Williams to the position of Equipment Committee. They Assistant Dean of Students. He .. ·reported on various campus also commented on the total improvements including em;oUment this fall of 2,054 constmction of the Field House students, with 1,333 living ·on Loc:tcei: Room for which a . · campus, and i,180 enrolled in \substantial completion\ date theineal plan, a_record number ofAprill, 1989 was projected. to date. He also tendered words Dean.· James Underwood also on the new Commitee on the addr~ssed the board on the issue Freshman Year. This· of the Library Program committee is examining four Planning, Chairing · the basic areas of freshman life: committee of ten faculty and orientation, residential life, administrators, tile problems of Greek -organizations, and spa<;Je and function are being awising services. They will examined. They are dealing submit a report to President with a consultant at this point Morris by ~he end of the and the report is 80-90 percent Spring concerning this role, completed. What is left is to the particular year and its · prioritize, study cost, and influence on a student, conceptualize plans, . The Student Affairs Th.e Budget and Audit Commitee also reviewed the · Committee; of course presented demographics of the student the preliminary 1989-90 body as well. The proJJosed budget .. Tuition will demographics include the . be raised from 16,465 dollars enrollment in the Fall and to 18,050 dollars., an increase geographical distribution of ihe ·of 9.63 percent or 1,585 student body-- with New York dollars. Tuition itself was still dominating at 50 percent, · raised from 12,175 dollars to followed by 24 percent from . 13,355 dollars --a 9.7 percent New Fngland, 5 percent from increase. Housing (for a the Middle Atlantic, and 20 · double) is now at 2,430 from percent from other states and 2~220, up 9.5 percent, and foreign countries. Academic food contracts (for 19 meats per majors; reside:gtial . per week) are up 9.5 percent,· arrangements, Meal Plan increased ffom 2,070 to 2,265. enrollment an\d revenue, and · The causes and the reasoning Student Activities Fees were behind these increases are due also part of the report. ·u was to declining net revenues of voted that th.e Student Graduate and Continuing Activities Fee be raised· $20 - Stndies programs, increasing from $138 to $158 paid' over financial aid needs, and the three terms. increased costs for employee The issue of mandatory participation in the meal plan was also suggested. This would be done to form more easily the Dining Service's budget. The thought, however, was benefits. Financial Aid budget is proposed· to increase 13 percent--: 680,000 dollars more over the _ current year. The additional fee for those students taking a tenD. abroad is $300 for the coming year to cover SUMMER RESEARCH FElLOWSHIP AVAILABLE This wilt be the fourth summer that the college will offer fellowships for undergraduat(il students to carry out research under faculty supervision. The college has obtained grallts from the Dana, Surdna, and Hughes Foundations and will supplement these funds with college money so that appJ\PXimately 40 fellowships will be available. · Projects are normally considered to be at least a half-time commitenient fdr the summer. The stipend will be either $2000 or $1500, depending on whether you are awarded a Dana fellowship. Only studnets eligible for financial aid may receive the larger Dana Fellowships; and Dana Fellows are expected to save some .of their stiper:1d for academic expenses next year; All student research fellows (both Dana ~nd others) will receive free rooming in the dorms over the summer from the college. To apply for a fellowship, students rn1,1st have a faculty sponosr. Together they will prepare an application on a project, which is mutually acceptable (usually on the faculty members' research). Applicatiohs may be picked up in the 6iology Office, Rm .f)324, Science and Engineering Bldg; or in Prof. Lewis' Office; Rm 221E, Social Sciences. Completed applications are due March 1st in Prof. Tobiessen's Office, which is the 13iology Department Office. MiNu':rESOF THE STUDENT AFFAIRS COUNCn. JANuARY 19; 1989 The Student Affairs Council, composed ofthe Dean of Students, the Associate Dean of Undergraduate Stu.dies, two professors and five students, has the responsibility of reviewing and implementing policies affecting all, aspects of student life on campus. Among the ·areas that fall under the auspices of the Student Affairs Council are housing, parking, security and safety,. the College Center, the college social policy, food service, the Carreer Development Center, and Health Services. The Committee members welcome any student concerns andJor suggestions and. urge s£udents to notify any of the committee members listed blow, The committee members are: Dean Joseph Mammola, Dean Margaret Schadler, :Professor Doug l\Iein, Chair, Professor Barbara Boyer, Mark Landrio, R.J. Donohue, Rick l!oward, Risa Sotsky, and. Kevin W. Irland. At its flrst meeting .of the term, the Student Affairs Counci.l.... discussed the following topics: l. College Center improvements 2. Winter Term housing occupancy rates 3. the reaffirmation and changes in the social policy. any discrepancies in exchange rates. , Nearing the end of the meeting, the College Re.~ources Committee proposed theit budget for ongoing programs, .and for a new Bicentennial Campaign. The Academic Affairs Committee concluded the meeting with a list (>f various. faculty appointments to be approved, including the tenure. of Professor of .Physics Gary Reich. Dean of faculty and chair of the committee, James Underwood; presented his report on the general academic life at the ~allege. His report included comments on the growth of computer use on campus, proposils to create a Women's studies major, an East Asian Studies major, and a Department of Religious Studies. He also spoke of the progress of the General Education Board, and the increase of exchange students, focusing on the two from .the Soviet Union.. He included information regarding the faculty, focusing on the change of Dean of Engineering, Professor of Political Science, Fre,d Hartwig's move to a political consulting firm, and the high level of perfonnance regarding scholarship and other professional involvement of the faculty. Finally, Professor David Peak, Chair of the Department of Physics, gave a presentation on the National Conference on Undergraduate Research that is to take place on Union College's campus in the spring of 1990. · To be or Nott to be restored. Future Fun,di,ng For Restoration Of Nott Questionable Private And State Funding Sought from~ page i Continued from outside sources. Pres.ident · Morris has visited a particular foundation to request money, . and administrators have also gone to the State to solicit funds from the Historic Preservation Society. Maranville however foresees little happening before the curteQt fiscal year ends. The vice-president described the Nott as \a building without a constituency. It is everyone's favodte building, but has always:· taken a bac~seat to other campus needs.\ He cited as examples, construction of the College Center and Alumni Gymnasium, as well as current plans to expand Schaffer Library. Maranville believes that the Memorial is finally emerging as a priority building, and concluded by saying that \the Nott Memorial is Union College personified, and we ·will take care of it, but we must not ignore other problems.\ In the meantime, several members of the College community after reading the National Park Service's 1988 . report will keep a close watch ·on the progress of plans for I reconstruction of the landmark Union Students Move To Expand Greek Offerings Continued from· page 1 ' Colleges such as Dartmouth question will be asked and and Bowdoin vary their policy instead of presenting a speaker procedure for rush and other so that \you can do what you or a debate, people can gather functions will be similiar to want\ according to Melissa and discuss the issue. other fraternities on campus. Bloom. Housing is not an Craig Summers says that They are planning a series of issue, although the idea of \the major difference between infonnal functions and official living close together on Delta Psi Delta and other bids will be given toward the campus was discussed but fraternities on campus is the end of this term to the decided as unnecessary. With fact that it is coed.\ A coed beginning of next term. This is no housing, Delta Psi Delta fraternity could be a move in a spring trial rush which could will plan meeting in the same the right direction to help be changed to the fall. In this · manner as Gamma Phi Beta alleviate some of the sexism case, Delta Psi Delta is not who also does not have on- that exists on the Union planning bn pledging campus housing. College campus. Melissa sums freshmen. Currently, members Delta Psi Delta, the · up the pbilosophy of Delta Psi do pay a small amount for Protestant ministry, and Delta by declaring that \we try social activities. When an members ef the faculty will be · to see the ways that we are the insurance policy is purchased, a sponsoring an \intellectual · same, without burying the dues policy will be instituted. forum\ which should be ways in which we are The question of having starting in a few weeks. This different.\ The decision of the 'jewelry' is still under debate. will be a discussion table once IFC is the next step, which There are no pledge pins. a week during lunch. A will occur on Tuesday. <4 r------FROM THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER SUMMER/PART TIME JOBS •Teaching Assistantships/Writing Skills offered by John Hopkins University for this summer at Dickinson, Scripps and Skidmore College. •Lake Bryn M~rCamphas 100 staff openings for this summer, including general tennis, riding, and water-skiing counselors. Located in Pennsylvania. •JCC ofNJ needs waterfront directors & staff, and specialists in various camp program areas for the summ.:r. •Forest La!ce Camp, located in Adirondack Mountains of northern NY state, is looking for staff members for summer 1989. • Yellowstone Park Services Stations are accepting sununer applications on a first come, first served basis. For those who lik~ the outdoors, hiking, swimming, etc. . •International Seafoods of Alaska, Inc., located in Kodiak, Alaska, at the processing plants, has summer positions open. Apply in person. •For office and clerical work, or industrial work, Tempforce at the Albany location currently has positions open. •Niagara County Council of Girl Scouts has opportunities open .at its resident camp.this summer. Offers experience in fields of recreation, education, and much more. •For a student inierestedin babysitting part time, there is a position in the local area open immediately. •Oerical, Word Processing, Invoicing, and Mailing Positio~u open now for the Hoffman Dagget Association, located in Rensselaer. **For more information these jobs and more, come to the CDC. INTERNSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS • The Sewickley Academy Intern Teacher Program helps aspiring teachers learn more about the teaching p.rofession. Interns work closely with experienced teachers, attend faculty meetings, and are afforded all the privileges of full time teachers. •The Summer Fellowship Program at the University of Connecticut School of Medicine provides a research enriclunent experience and some exposure to •clinical medicine./Application dedline: Aprill, 1989. Cll ~ ~ ::i -I ~ Cll c: :r: u >- Cll 0 0 :r: c. . ' I ' .·, ,. 'I . ' . I '• ' ': . ~ l ·' I ' ,, 'I ~ \

' ' Page 4 ·:-:·, r't:;c. •; 1 ~.~·-. ..- t' ,-;:, It •./ .} \~' 1;:~ ~~: ·-:. ~ff ~j.\\'<:t~., CONCORDIENSIS Februar~· 2, 1989 Student Forum Looks Into HonqrCode F~rme·r Director ~Of Public Relations Signs On With P.rofe.ssor Bolland:er Works. Towards· x· Strong,er. E,ng.~~ee .. ring Department -Local Newspaper To Follow Lead Of Comparable Schools By JOHN MEIER The Student Forum has been discussirtg the pros and cons of establishing an Honor Code at Union. An Honor ·Code Subcommittee has been formed to acquire information from other institutions as to how the system works, what it entails, and the benefits it brings to the student llody. Under the Honor System, each student signs a pledge upon admission to tbe College promising not to violate the academic regulations of the institution. Students are responsbile for honesty on their written examinations thus, exams are not supervised. All students have an obligation to report any violations of the Honor System. A committee run by students evalqates each case where the accuser has the duty to appear as a witness at the trial. Many colleges and universities comparable to Union are currently using an Honor Code. Hamilton, William and Mary, Cornell, and the University of Virginia are just a few institutions with an Honor System. However, an Honor Code must have the support and consent of the sudent body in order for it to effectively function. The Student Forum is scheduling a survey later this tenn in order to derive student opinion on this iss11e. By JOHN KOUTRAS Brin Quell, Director of Press Relations. has. left her job recently to work as a reporter for the Arts an<l Entertainment division of the A I ban y T i m e s • U n i o n . No replacement has been named. Trying to bring Union College into the publiC' eye can be a time consuming task. Unfortunately, we are basically a regional school, with students that are primarily New York/New 'England residents. The most challenging part of Ms. Quell's job was trying to get other parts of the nation to focus their attention on Union. Her medium was the press. Accentuating the positive was nota hard task for her. The aspect of Union which most · impressed her was the \attention that the students received from an excellent faculty.\ Her primary agenda centered around demonstrating how \knowledgeable each faculty member is in his or her field.\ She initiated a program, where, using the facilities here, she would tape \informal discussions\ with faculty members on topics that interested them. Each month she would distribute the tapes · to over one hundred public and commercial radio stations along the East Coast, Midwest and South. Through this. \Radio News Service\ and. the faculty's participation in writing for opposite editorial {OP-Ed) pages for many newspaoers she was able to bring about the well-deserved attention that the faculty needed Union College can definitely be te.rmed as a \venerable\ institution. As such, it is very resistant to change, which made Brin Quell's job a little more difficult. However, the Students who are interested in Sociology 61: lnternsh ips in the Delivery of Social Services for Spring Semester 19.89 should contact Professor Loeske (.Social Science- 106; extension 6083) as soon as possible. - Reported Security Incid.ents 1/23-1/29. Day of Date Week Time Location Incident 1(23 Mon 2:30pm Sigma Chi Fraternity Smdent reports theft of items from !'O!ml• 1(23 Mon 7:05pm Library Field S~icious pmO!i, advised off campus. 1/24 Tues. 7:50pm Achilles Rink Conduct charges filed RE: stUdentS throwing oranges .. 1/24 Tues. 11 :l5pm Physical Plant lot Property Damage Automobile accident involving Sllldeiit Escort van. 1/25 Wed. ' 3:20pm Raymond/Pott<'r lot Stlldentreports theft of items ftom .personal car. 1/25 Wed. 7:00pm Quiet road parlcing Vro:bal altercation between faculty member and· non-student. 1/26 Thurs. 1:52pm Humanities area Complaint of children on skateboards, advised off campus pr«lperty. 1/26 Thurs. 3:07pm College Center Food Service Manager reports theft of money. l/Z7 Fri !2:54am North College area Suspicious .Person, &nbject identified and advised off campus property. 1/Z7 Fri 3:45pm Hickok House Smdent reports theft of items from room. · 1/'};1 Fri. 7:15pm North Entry road Property damage automobile accident inVolVing student. one decision where Union ' \broke the mold\ and bec~me a \trend setter\ was its decision to make the SAT optionat for admissions. Ms. Quell prai.sed this decision and caHed it \courag~cms\ ;;tnd a \strong · move\ which decreases the importance of the exam. She · feels that this helps to av:oid shutting ·out \students . who show a lot of potential\ but may not be accepted due to low bowd scores. Also·, concerning the students, Ms. Quell made some other very interesting Continued from page 1 was the first' school to combine generation, transmission and engineering with a liberal arts distribution ofelectrical power. p:wgram and Hollander feels Within this area, Hollander has that through this program, been widely published· in Union's engineers get a broader ·journals. and magazines, range of experience both in and including an article in a out of the program. national magazine called \The · Nation\ in 1966. ·Although he In the future, Hollander is· pi:iesently not working on expects Union to regain some of its accreditation in the one particular project, Professor Hollander looks to engineering department. As continue his research in the Chairman of Union's ~~; Committee on Trends in near iuture. When discussing. Union's Engineering, Professor l:toliander works with other engineering program. · comments. She feels that .the \faculty and the administration . underestimate the concern of the students\ in various political and social affairs and that given the opportunity the students would be more · than willing to play a more active tole. When asked about the minority situation, or the lack of it, she partially blames the fraternities for \breaking the .school into cliques\ that discourage minority integration. Hollander feels very positive members ef the Union faculty .. about the cutriculum. He stated as Well as some outside experts .. that we follow the same core on what to expect in the future Some of Brin Quell's projects include: \Getting Plastered,\ the Spring Classics Seminars, Winter Improvisation, and various press conferences. \Slow and ·steady progress\ is the phrase which she believes summarizes the manner through which we will gain a regionally diverse student body. · . curriculum as comparable for engineering and how to h 1 d d , plan for it. The committee is sc oo ·s an· on t look to add · . additional programs to Union's currentlyfinishing up a draft of department, but rather. to stre11gthen the four divisions currently at Union. These four . divisions are electrical engineering, mecliancical engineering~ civ·il ~ngineering, and computer science. When asked how Union differs from a · schm>l such as Cooper Union, HoHander stated that the programs are very similar with . the exception that Union's ·engineering department is part . of a liberal arts program where- . as Cooper Union's program involves only engineering. In this context, Professor Hollander feels that Union has an advantage. In 1845, Union Win In 18'45, Union was the first sch·ool to combine an engineering program with a liberal arts program . • • this gives Union engineers a· broader range:· or experience. proposals with the final copy to be ready near the end of this school year. Hollander hopes that this will serve as a guide to the administration on how to prepare Union's engineering department to move into the year 2000 and make the department stronger during the 'upcoming years. . ' Break Just send us a photo of your most outrageous dare from the fun, new DARE game. Your dare may win you ... One o£ 1:hree 1989 Spring BreakVacations for four worth Ss,ooot OFFICIAl IIUtES 1. NO PURCIIASE NECESSARY TO EIITER OR CLAIM- Pubhctly Rete<~se) wtlh•n S.days 01 r.ot•hcai•On or p111e alollltds w1il oe V01d No I'IIII£. Jo ente1 ma•l a 3\!5' m 4 ··?· b&w·orcotdt(no slides) photo ileO•ctmg a subslrtulion·ot lianslet. ol ome.s One p111e ve• tam•lv 4~ Contest open on~y to date lrolillheDARE game lageth~•lh yout annltdnametaddress an a :r·• s: card ·US res1dent;; 18 or older at.1u11e ol enlty:exceot emotoyeeS!aniUneu .tam•lii!S) to D~ Sfr!!li ~~ !lJintHt, P.O. tqx 8585, ~H'tllort, CT. 06888. ol Patkel. Btelhets !Is aH•Iiates. ~OSlO tan~ agenc<es ana ptoless•onal ~no· · Photo.must~ !he ongmat wmk ol entrant and·nol have been puollshed ot•puohcly tagrapners 1/0•d where ptahrbtted Taxes are tee sol~ •esoonsrOIIil'f ol the drsplayed One entry pet .envelope All en1t1es must be teceiVed Oy 311/89 2, wmners No11espons•ble lor•llellg,bte dafn<igeo last tate ·tmsd•recteo ma11 0 , Entfles will be judged ltom among an ellgrble enk1es reteiVetl. on:o~al>ou13/11S9 returned pnze nlillln:a!IOns Enlnes become propeny ol sl)(lnSOI wrln aU·rrgnls. by PMC. an •noepenoenttudgtng agency. on lhe !lasts ol ong~nahty IG-30 QOmlsh •nclud•hg !he nghllo earl. oubllsh,and use any pnoto w•thouHurlher cons:dera· relevance lo lhe ·[)ARE game (0·40 .pomls). compostlron 10·20 po•ntSI photo· tmn or paymenUo.lhe contestant Nocouesooridertcec telephone calls at omet graPhiC I!!Chn,que·t0-10 po•nls) 3. Three.pnzes wtll' be awarded Each w•ll be.a mqutttes-auoutenrr•es wtll·ne enlere<J·rnta. not w•ll photos oe a 8 ~nowteageo or Spttng Steak trrp lot 4 conSIS!tng ol a1r travel m con!mental USA !tom IT'.ator arrport relume.d By subm•n•nganentry .you a~pl andagree'tobe noun~ by these tules closes! to wrnners. tesrrronces .hotel lor 5 mghls. and relale!l exoen~s up to a, and al!.decrsrons of lhe fudges. whiCil a•e:lltiar s. to obrar11..wmners 11s1:send max•mum terall 'lillue of S5 000 Wmners must s1gn and return an AMaVII of a sell-addressed srampe~ envelOpe .by 3/1189to .DARE W•nners. P·O Box Ehg•brhly311dl•ablhty/Pubhcr!YRelease(anowmners travelcompan•ons a Travel/ 2925. Saugatuck Slahoit, We~ll)(lrt. CT 06880 ' ------------------------------ ~$3.00 REBATE . $1.50 R:E.BATEQJ WHEN YOU BUY A DL-7 CAMERA WHEN YOU BUY 3 AOLLs·of FUJI FILM ' BUY a fuji OL-7camerabetween Jan. I. 1989 and Dec. 31. 1989 Reouest BUY3 packaQesol FuiicolorFilm, 24or36 eKposures between Jan. 1. mu.st be received by Jan. 30, 1990. 1989 and Dec. 3·1, 1989~· Request musl be received .by Jan. 31. 1!i90. RECEIVE a SJ•oo rebale rn the ·mail. RECEIVEaS1.50 rebate in lhe marl. Maxnnum rebate is three(3) rebates SEND .11 THIS completed rebate certi1icate ANCi 2) your dated cash per family, address~ organi~atlon or location. reoi.srer receipt with the .price pa1d circle<J PLUS 3Hhe UPC code from SENO 1) TI:IIS completed reb'ate ce~ilicale AN02) your dated cash package. re~ister receipt wilh the price paid crrcledPLUS 3) lhe UPC panels lrom eath ofthe 3 packages of F~ji Film. :24 or.36 exposures with the words MAIL TO; Fuji DL·7 Rebats Ofler P ,o. Box 117'toungo\meriea, ··Manufactured .lor tne U.S.A\ You1 tebate is bas~d on proofs-of· Mil 55399 purchases sent at one time. N~~-- MAIL TO: Fuji Film S:t.Sa Rabale OHer P.O. Box 5676 Kalamazoo, M149003-5676 Mdress ~--------- Apt. __ Name ___ ---~-----~ CitY---------------~-- Mdress _. ---- . Aoi __ . _ Stat Zi Cily PlEASE NOTE THES£ ADDITIONAL TERMS foR BOTH OFfERS: I) Oftei --~---~-~~--- giXKionlyiOUieUSA 21Aebate~ooa6nlyontounalstmi~t<~tedhere•n 3)Ptools• State . Zip---.~-~ of,purcllase .maY not be metnante<jlly teoroduced ana musi11CC11mtl30Y your lfGU!St. 4) Qffet void where laxe!J, prontbtleo ot other.<rse reslrreled · 5) Employees or futt Pnoto Ftlm USA. Inc. dtslttbulors •. wholesalers an!l tetatlets O! Fu)t Film and Cametasare no! eligible lor lll1s alter 6) Film offer gOOd anry,on Futicolor 24 or 36 exposu•e lilm tor amateur use Commerce at users ate not e11gibll!' 7) futi rs not tespons1ole lor tosl •ateot mtsdiri!Cleo mail 8)1'tea~ allll\W Ut) 10 60 aays.fcr deltvety.

.'.I ~ - l I. I. .. ! I . I i 1 . .' .. ) CONCORDIENSIS February 2,. 1989 Page 5 Student Foru·m . Freshman Representative Election Statements . . . . potential. Because of the diversity within our class, as w~ll ~s within each of us, t:be representative position requires a nexible and understanding ear. I would be both honored and excited to represent our class ;and can promise 'bard work arr.d dedication to the position. My personal drive ft)r , success. will prove to be an asset to the Class of '92 as a 1 -whole. Aaron Fuchs It is time we stop listening to Bobby McFan:en's lyrics, \Don't Worry, Be Happy\. To keep Union the way Union was we have to worry to remain happy. We can't let the Administration change our school to their own personal versions of \colleges we!d like to compare ourselves to.\ We want to be better than these colleges. I am not saying we should, \Legalize it,\ but a little relaxing of the · Administration would. make Union a more interesting, open and thus, more successful cellege. Thank you. Andrea· Slade Hi, ·my name is Andrea Slade and I'm running for freshman class representative. The Student Forum is ~ important governing body on campus, dependent on the strong voices of its members·. It is -vital that we, as the freshman class, -begin now to work together in order to fully · achieve our Neil Fa.lk Do not be misled by other candidates' past achievements. It is the achievements of tomorrow that are most important. The Class of 1992 is the academic and athletic fUture .of Union College. The junior varsity football team, for example, was virtually all freshmen and had an undefeated season. Academically, our class is highly competitive-- the majority were in. the top 10% · of their high school class. Furthermore, we are the first class to be accetped ·-with optional SAT scores as well as a 50!50 male to female ratio . It is, fair to say, the Class of 1992 . is very special. Unfortunately;. we . are not getting a fair shalce. Problems rang~ fmm the cafeteria to a lack of on_-campus social events. If Union is to be our second home, it must meet our needs. My leadership can acco:m,plish such a goal. I have courage in my convictiorrs and will stand up for the student body. As your representative, I welcome Ml ideas and shall be the voice. that makes our opinions heard. In the next four years. we s~a11 grow to be a COMING SOON .. . big family. The .problems we may have, I will give my all t() solve because a class with such high caliber as ours deserves and demands the· best. Jon Lennon I have a high respect for Union College and would like to take an active part in matters affecting its .:future as well as current activities and school life. Essentially, I feel that communicative skills, as well as an ability to listen and learn from others are the essential quali~es that I can pring to this of&ce. . I began to develop these skills at Plattsburgh Senior High school whex:e I held the following offices: 4 year member of the Student Council, being elected its President my senior year, and the chosen representative of my class and school in discussing studerrt polides with- the Community School Organization. After living at U:nion for several months I can appreciate the responsibility the college Administration has in supervising the campus, both academical'ly and socially. -The student's privileges as members of the college community seem to be in a state of change. Actually, we find change in every aspect of our lives today; decisions we make, as well as things we enjoy, are affected by all kinds of changes. It is not impossible for .a class leader to conduct class meetings. from time to time, to keep members informed, air grievances, an(f give each of us a feeling of \class\ identity. • \' '89 IS T:HERE LIFE ··AFTE'R UNI:ON? SENIOR· GIFT DRIVE KICK-OFF RECEPTION FEB. 15, 7-9 PM If you wo·uld like more inJormation on attending the ki·ck-off reception or volur:lteering for '89. Contact Judy Bruhn i89, Kevin lrland '89., IIana Klein '89, Ellen Rosner '89·, Josh Waldman '89 Co-Chairmen or Erika Rauscher '88 in Lam.ont House x6175 . Such matters would be dealing with the quality of life on campus, something that sllould interest mem hers of all Fraternities, Sororities, and Independents, alike. Only through common interests c~n we achieve this \class\ identity-something that would he:lp us as present members of the Union College community and in the future. Each member of the Freshman class, through<Jut his or her years at Union, has a resporrsibility to be informed about the Colle.ge and Administration decisions~ Also each student has a responsibility to preserve the . high quality of life on campus. Through interaction with the Administration, I plan to present ideas regarding problems with security, rape, vandalism; and fire alarms, to name a few. A responsible Freshman Representative must be able to keep his class members informed, by correctly .relating the issues governing arry matter of Student-Administrtion concern. I urge you to supp()rt my candidacy for Class Representative for these reasons. Thank you. \ Andrea Rogers Have you had it witll the rumors about our class -- b<Jth academic and social? Are you ready for a voice in some of the decisions made at Union? If elected, r will try, with the experience of both high school student councils and statewide political conventions, to address and search for solutions· to the problems faced by ou.r class. Noelle Kinsch I have previously held offices in clubs and student government ranging from secretary to president. With both my experience and enthusiasm, I feel I wotJid make a good class representative. Input is important in all organizations and one way to utilize it is t h r o u ·g h q u a 1 if ie d representation. I wo11ld appreciate everyone's support and wish my running mates the best of luck. All Photos by Chris Williams ' - ' . ·Buckle Up For Spring Break '89 UVA Tanning -No Burning RenaniEJans Ha1r Designs SIGN UP BY FEB. 15 519 UNION ST.. SCHENECTADY, NY :-- M-- -.0-SESSIO-NS -,-----: $20 Reg. $30.00 MON. -FRI. 9· SAT. 9-6 ' ' f ' ' '' ' .' /

Page 6 2557 Hamburg Street Schenectady. NY i 2303 ., ~Cowers & Cjifts 6y 'Brenda CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 ., (5~ 8) 355.0918 .. ffST ., ., Order Early V Many great specials! • ., v • ., Don't f<Jrget. your Sweetheart on Valentines Day M-F9,5:30: Sat. 10-5; Stm. Closed Happy Valentines Dczy!!! Union College students m}' take non-credit courses olferedby Graduate and Continuir~g Studies for 1/2 the tuition costs. A variety . of courses are offered in business, computers •. trips aild excursions. : You may want to take .a non-credit · co.urse to help prepare yo.u for future careers or just f1H yt>ur . leisure enjoyment. All course.s have . different starting and encJin(J dates and vary in cost. The eoaliest · courses for winter/sprin~ 89 start on March 6. For more inlcr111ation or lor a free catalogque, caJI'Graduate and Continuing Studiesal'370-6638 or stop by Wells H()USfl. Spet1king lltltJds Union College's very ownsign language club invites you to join them Tuesday evenings ill the college center, Rm. 410. fhis is a beginner's class in sign, and those with some experience are encouraged to join us fro111 8 prn to 8:30 pm to increase vocabulary skills. If you are interested.in Spring term class offerings, calll)onlla at x4350. STUDENT· PHONATHON Feb. 12 & 13 5:30 ~9:30 Hale House Dining !1oom Free Food and P1izes ! Call Erika at x 61 TS in Lamont house forrnore information_ V AUNTINE'S DAYBAIJOONS Coming February 7th College Center · · Association for Computing Machir1~iy ' > . COME SKI WITH us •.• The Religiuos Progral!ls office is sponsoring askitrlpto JimmineyPeak(oniY.1 hour from he~) ot~ February 5; lhe lift . ·tickets will cost only ~23. · Please make a reservait()n 'Nith Lisa at 370\6929 or Bart)ara at 370-6885 by Friday_ ~ ., ' ' *February· \\' * 9 ill- 12 ~ COLLEGE 1989 With a little bit of luck, · .··you justmightmake itt~Jrougb·theweek. Right from the start, the part:y is no~stop; Your College Weekopens with a cmy:long Barbecue Bash at beautiful Elbow Beach~ dancing, feasting, swlminillgandtanning ori soft, pink, sun-splashed sands~ · ·. · · · · ' .!he beat goes on with spectacularbeach parties featuring.Bermuda'S;top·rock, steel aP,d calypso bands. Daily lunches. A limbo.fes!ly:at. And an outrageous Party Cruise to magnificent Great Sound. Allcomp1iments,of the Bermud·a Department of Tourism: Add to that all the things that make Bermuda, Bermuda. Whining ~r~und.our island on a: · · moped·. (Do keep left!) OurBritish.at11biance and .colburful pub.s. Great !ennis and golf. ~n~ure . ~U.~~·ns. i~ ~ur. sli<?PS: Joggi~g-?n. q~et seasid~ roads-u)dudmg a 2:k \Fu[l Rl1ii' from HorsesHoe Bay: And.the speda.t feelingof.beingonatiny; flower\ bedecked iS[and, separated from . evecywb,~re and,€vet11bil)g~by 6oQ rnilesofsea. - !hi$ $priog; break away to an :island that's more. than just sllfl, sand and-sur.fContact your Campus Travel R~:presefitativ¢·or travel .Agent for more Bermuda College Week details. · Redman Spqrt & Travel 208 West 260th Street Riverdale, NY 10471 (212) 796-6646 • (800) 288-2328 , (617) 770-1403

CONCORDIENSf$. February 2, 1989 Page 7 FEATURE ARTICLES . . ' - . JMaa -·- Students Speak Out On TV Talk Show By LISA CHERANDE Tltis past Sunday, four Union students debuted on Albany's WTEN (Channel 10) for ·a highly provocative, a la Phil Donahue, talk show. The show ..was entitled \Broken Promises: The Resurgency of Racism.\ It was the $ee()nd part of a two-part prpgram, spt>nsored by Price· Chopper, the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B 'rith, and the Capita,! District Human Rights Council, in their \World of Difference\ campaign. This project is their joint effort to erradicate prejudice and promote civil rights in · the .Capital District area. As part of the two-year-long, program, they aim to bring their message to the local community. Ms. Pat Trowers-J ohnson and Mr. Cary Berglund, two local television personalities, hosted the shOw with their guest speaker, Ms. Vanessa Alleyne. Currently, Ms. Alleyne is a Race Relations Consultant and the Assistant Dean of Students at Seton Hall Law School. The aim .of the talk show was to foster a dialogue amongst difffer.ent represent~tives of the ,. CO!llll!l!rlity on how to solve r~cial conflicts. Since the first P~rl af the sequel focused mainly on the grievances of tfu:o-se alienated ~y the colllrn 1111ity, the producers hope.d that Sunday's .show wtl:u.ld p·rqmote some cfi s<:ussion on possible so-lotio11s. Johnson summarized th.e ;rograrn theme as one of \b-uildiiig bridges.\ Bec~use the issue of race re:lations iilfluenc-es everyone in a :highly p~rsonal way. the topic of mscllssion varied extensively o-ver tile course of the hour. 'rhe shaw began on the subject o:f th.o(l Schenectady Police l?JeJ>ilrtment's recent ir:n)Jlementation of Spanish l!l!tgmge instrUction as part of tbe training program for elfice:Js, and their increased eff()rts in minority recruitment. · Mlm:y members of the audience see:med to view these changes as a steJJ in the right direction, b~t CJ.llestioned the police depa:rtment's motivation. They ft\:lt tlutt it was the result of a r~.td!tl <:risis and not part of an al]-eJic()mpassing institutional pt:Jlicy that would alter the pl'e:sent stru~tu~ of1 power. Allceylle. disagree~ saying that tile motivation behind .a policy chWI,ge ()fan instutition should not be. q11estioned because any ------------------~--~~-------------- attempt to imp:r.ove race relations is altruistic. She also asserted tbat, for tbe most part, \band-aid\ attempts to patch up an uncomfortable situation after a racial crisis are ineffective in the long run. The next issue that arose out of the discussion was the use of the term \minority\. Many members of the audience pointed ou; that the use of the word minority as referring to people of a color other than white was a misnomer~ as people of color constitute a majority in the world's population. Some felt offended that the government , as well as many other insitutions, should consider certain people to be of minority status. The most pertinent and thought-provoking matter of discussion, though, was raised by Tracey P.ryluck, a sophomore here at Union. She felt that the blame of many race problems on the campus should not lie entirely with the white majority, but that very often minority students inflict prejudice upon themselves by not mixing with the white students. Alleyne referred to it as the ' 1 cafeteria syndrome.\ The comment highlighted the unde;dyin,g cause of tension The Rebirth Of Amnesty International By STEPHEN BARRETT You can turn up your Metallica records. You can see what the \Big Mouth\ has to say on the tube tonight. Or you can wdte an article expressing your views in the school newspaper. Fr~dom.of expression ~Utrounds our lives, but sometimes we forget that we possess this luxury. While we are ,granted such freedoms by law in the United States, many people in the world do not enjoy these privileges. In many {:Ountries, some people are above the law, and they order the suppression of other - people's oppos:i:n~ ideas. People cannot talk as freely as the Morton Downeys of this country, be~ause they are not protected by the law. The result is the imprisonment of thousands of people, who have committed as many \crimes\ as you and me, Amnesty International is a worldwide organization which fights for human rights. Thousands of people are in prisons because of their beliefs. Many of these are held without charge or trial. Torture.and the death- penalty ate widespread. Amnesty· International is an impartial, independent, worldwide movement of people acting on conviction that governments must not deny individuals their basic human rights. Several years ago, a chapter of .AI was operating on the Union College campus, but it shriveled up in apathy. Rece11tly, a small group of p~oJJle? working within the St11den.ts for Political Action an.d Awareness, decided to get the U11io.n community involved .oruce again. We plan to make it as easy as possible to get you inwolved. t<JO. .Amnesty International tal:'g-ets three cases a month, on wnid1 to focus letter writing ca1t1paig11s; Letters are written in be:half of each prisoner to th«l llead of the government holding him/her captive. We willl rnal<e photo-copies ·Of the mc:Jdel letters that AI sends to us and ]Jiace them in everyone's rnai1b(}:x_ All you have to do is. sig11 yow name and return the letters to a box located in the sttde11t center. We will also set . UIJ a:t~lile and ask for yo6r l<Jllse change to help us pay for p()Sta£e. Finally, we will send thee lett~rs off, and you can feel gCDo-d a\)()u t ptomoting peace an.d hilmanity around the world. It r.eally- makes a difference! Here is what one former pr:iso11er of conscience in the S01viet lJ11ion said: \I had been free little more than a month wllen 1 found myself seated opposhe the KGB colonel who haul ill've:stigated my case nearly a!lec.ade earlier. He pointed to a pLle ~f letters sitting on the desl ~d said, 'make them calm doVIlll: I want you to write to· th~tn alld tell them you are free S() ther stop sending those leiters.' I looked at the letters. Tfuey were from Amnesty In.iemC~ti<>nal members who had been writing to Soviet authorities appealing for my release.\ Amnesty International is more than people like Bono and Bruce playing free concerts to raise money-- AI's ·promoting of humanity is the responsibility of all of us. Please help us make a difference, Just to assist in the release of one prisoner would make all the work worthwhile. If you want to get more involved, please come to a SPAA meeting at 7:00, Mondays, or contact me perso-nally. Amnesty International is back at Union. Attention stU.dents The College Bookstore will begin returning winter term textbooks on Fri., Feb: 10. Please purchase your winter term textbooks before that date. Thank you. The CoHege Bookstore College Center Phone : 370-6188 · .Hours: Mon.·Fri. 8:45am-4:30pm Sa.t.llam-3:00pm . ' among different races, religions, nationalities, and groups. As several members of the audience explained-- individuals are allowed to :\dentify with a particular group, but their tendency to stick together is cause for prejudice, sterotypes and misunderstanding. When placed in a community where one is not of the majority \type\, people will naturally seek out others who are like themselves. A senior at ;the State University at Albany pointed out that the tensions between races are more exaggerated than those between other groups because. a group of blacks .sitting together in the cafeteria is more identifiable than a group of fraternity brothers sitting together. Assimilation is harder to determine in an all- white population. At a school like Unio~, where people of color do not have a very large presence on the campus, these differences are even more apparent and the possibility for discrimination is even greater. What can be done about racial problems? The audience did not propose any solutions for ending discrimination entirely, but they did seem to agree that the first, and foremost step, is to acknowledge thatraoism exists. Denial and avoidance of the issue may put the issue on the back burner temporarily, but it will not change the harsh realities ,of inJustice and discrimination. The only major flaw with Sunday's programming was .that the audience, though racially mixed, was not as diverse as the campaign's theme may have suggested. The audience was comprised mainly of black and white professionals and students. There were no Oriental or Hispanic representatives, nor any blue coilar workers at the studio to voice their opinions. on the subjeat. In addition, the discussion focused mainly on problems of racism rather than the problem of prejudice in general. Although race relations between blacks and the rest of the community is certainly a subject that needs to be addressed, the motto of the \W.orld of Difference\ campaign implies the relations of all humankind. The producers failed to recognize that discrimination extends beyond the bounds of race. Philosophy Forum The Philosophy Forum recently recieved a letter which outlined the basic philosophy of a new movement called Differentialism. We found the ideas intriguing, and so reprint the main part of the letter here, for our fellow students. society's responsibility is to encourage the 'idealized man' to develop his or her unique potential for maximum contribution to society. If the institutions encourage conformity and mediocrity, society will be uniform and mediocre. On the other hand, if Those in the Differentialist :each person is encouraged Movement .support the basic toward greatness, great is what premise that each person is society will be. Differentialism unique, special, and different is individuality, uniquenss, and from every other person. They creativity; it is not black or believe that promoting this white, Budhist or Catholic, individuality is one of society's male or female; it is that primary responsibilities. , nebulous tension found Contrary to general opinion, between each pair; it is love. just ·because something is By Blake Dawson different does not mean that it ·is ~vii' or 'bad' (or even 'good'· for that matter). Different does not carry a value, it merely shows a relationship between two or more objects, beliefs, subjects, or attitudes. The interaction between differences causes tension, and from the resolution of this tension comes progress, innovation, and creativity: According to differentialism, We hope that tlle above treatise prompts some thought about the realtionships between society and the individual, and their responsibilities to each other. If you have questions or comments or would like further information, please write to The Differentiali~t Movement, 2867 N. Clark, Chicago, IL, 60657. NIGHT SKIING! 1/2 price ($6) with College ID WILLARD MOUNTAIN Monday-Saturday 6-10 pm Call692-7337 for more info. .,

. Page 8 CONCORDlENSIS February 2, 1989 FEATURE ARTICL:ES Only A Walk Away Olt.ie And Morris Dine Out- By SUSAN SHAFFER Features Editor Nott Terrace hosts FRIENDLY'S,. A-PLUS and THE FOUR SEASONS. Necess·ities in the Union student's life, they cannot go unnoticed. Yet across the street, not far away, lies a world that has been explored by few-- ignored by many. Life signs are present however, a new one from this world even stands upon the street It is that world which delves into the imagination, offers new informaton and knowleqge, and provides an entertaining afternoon. Still, few are interested, their curiosity not yet spurred, their senses not yet tingling. Much can be discovered, uncovered, if one will just step into the unknown, out of home territory. Comfort, security and contentment keep us on campus, yet the lack of excitement should send us scurrying for more. Only THREE BLOCKS AWAY lies some stimulating activities. No, I am not talking about WONDER BURGER! This unknown world contains art exhibits, laser shows, trippy toys, arts & crafts classes, lectures, innovative and --craftsy gift shops and a chance to see the night sky during the day. This world is known to us as the SCHENECTADY MUSEUM AND PLANETARIUM. Now do you remember the sign on N~tt Terrace? Such a simple sign for such a complex place, and it's all within a short walk. The planetarium is definitely something special, there are not too many around. Shows arc offered every weekend and occasionally it features special events. In two weeks, the planetarium wil be hosting a classic roc}<. laser show featuring music by Pink Floyd, Yes. Genesis, the Beatles, ·David Bowi,e, Jefferson Airplane, Deep Purple and others. The schedule is as follows: Feb. 10 & 17: 7:30 & 8:30 p.m. Feb. 11 & 18: 2:30, 3:30, 7:30, 8:30p.m. Feb. 12 & 19: 2:30 & 3:30 p.m. The science and technology exhibit is just as funky. Trippy toys abound: optical illusions, a giant bubble maker, a cave which you can crawl through, touch and feel discovery boxes, and much, mu~h more. Changing exhibits of art are contained within two small galleries. Currently, Dan Gelfand is displaying his paintings, drawings and monotypes. The Gallery Essay described his work as \emotional unpredictable, and complex. His satisfying color ~ makes trucks float as if on the rings of Saturn; fi-sh swim in seas of pigment reminiscent of the effervescent musings of Bonard. Dinosaurs and African figures dance in the glow of this eruption.\ .His wor:k will be on display until March 25: Every Tuesday at 12: 15, the museum _ offers brown bag lectures. Next week they are featuring Terri Griffith, who will talk on \Interesting Area Architecture and Features.\ New classes are constantly being offered. Some that I thought sounded particulary interesting are: Chinese Brush Painting, Japanese Flower Arranging, IHustrati(:)n, Bead Loomwork and Jewelry Maki·ng. For more information, call the museum at 382-7890. The Museum even- offers February recess activities, although our recess is not until March. You can create your own optical toy such as a thamafrope, phenakisticope, zoetrope, or flip box in one of the courses. · Winter term tends to be very harrowing, people' tend not to go out as much. Now with the new social policy, there appears to be less to do. Yet we all need an escape from the daily pressures. This world that I have introduced you to can provide that escape. Grab a friend, take a shoft, pleasant walk, and explore the world at our local museum! By STEVE COLE & BRETT MALOFSKY This week Morris and Ollie ventured into Union's own backyard-- Luigi's. We were intrigqed by the amount of mixed reviews about its Italian cuisine, and wanted to provide clear, concise, and accurate · opinions for our literate public. Incidentally, the rumors we heard ranged from ''the placeis excellent,\ to hostile feelings about a lasagna entree once served there. _ Roquefort was seventy- five cents extra and not worth a dime. It was without chunks of cheese, and was too sweet.· We both found the complimentary warm bread just that; wann and extremely complimentary. What Is A Jail 'N Bail? We entered Lnigi's·:an Barrett Street, · a .·scant five minute walk from Fox; and found the restat;trant to be deceptively large. We were promptly seated and given menus by a wonderfullY: fri~ndly waitress. The atmosphere was clean and simple, .and the oil lamps on each table added a nice touch. Within minutes we were served our water and asked whether we were ready to place our order. We were and did. For a change, we passed by any appetizers and went right to the main course. Morris opted for the Fettucine Alfredo and a salad with the house dressing, a light o:il and vinegar. Ollie went for the Homestyle Spaghetti with Calamari and an Ofltional Roquefort dressing upon his greens. Incidentally, the Now,· on with the main entrees. Motds found. hi-s Fettucine Alfredo to be ·even more mild· tllan any cream sauce should he. He was not satiated, despite the enormously generous portions Luigi's allotted. Ollie's calamari was certainly more ·flavorful than .the Fettucine Alfredo, but also lacked any special appeal. He found the calamari cooked well and the spaghetti soft; without being pasty, but there was still something amiss with the sauce~ However, even Olliie could not place what was lacking. By TRI DELTA Tri Delta Soronty is holding their first annual Jail'N'Bail on February 21 and 22 to raise money for the American Cancer Society. The event is proposed to raiS'e $4,000 with maximum campus participation which would be the largest sum raised throqgh a charity event by the Beta Psi Chapter. The basic procedure for the Jail 'N' Bail is that students and faculty are given the opportunity to arrest their friends and have them sent to jail where they must raise a specific bail in order to he released. The event will take place in the College Center where there will first be sign-ups to make arrests from Febmary 14th through the 20th. In order to place an arrest, a charge against the Jailee must be cited which can be as simple as \they don't clean their room\ or any ,other. creative \crime\ they have committed. On February 21st and 22nd, when the arrests will be made, Tri Delta sisters and pledges in uniforms will seek out the J ailee and bring him or her back to the College Center where a jail will be constructed. The Jailee's crime will be read by a judge who will set a bail according to the severity of the crime. The judges that have been selected are various deans, faculty members and presiden~s of on- campus organizations. Once the bail has been set the Jailees must then serve time in jail where, rather than allowing them one last phone call, th~y are instead allowed to make as many calls. as it takes, both long distance and local, in order to raise the designated bail. As soon as the bait has been raised by calling frien~ and relatives, · the Jailee is free to go. With the numerous. sisters and pledges of Tri De.lta involved, preparation$ for the event are~ well underway-. It is ~toing to take campus WRUC TRIVIA IS Co. M :IN. · -G ''·'·' • • • • ••• February 12, 19 & 26 8:00pm ONLY ON 89.7 FM participation to make the Jail 'N' Bail work, so, if you are anxious to see your friends or members of the faculty thrown in jail in a full jailee uniform and hear about the \crimes\ that they have committed, keep your eyes open for tbe chance to' sign up. It is a_ great opportunity to raise money for the American Cancer Society and have fun getting a hit of • ,revenge on your .friends. OverCJ!l, the prices were a tad higher than ex-pected, but the portions were larger than _ expected as well. Prices ranged from approximately $6 to $14. The service was excellent, and remarkably speedy for a restaurant of · this nature. Overall, however, we were disappointed with Luigiis and don't highly recommend it. ' ' :;- THE WRITIN~ CENTER :;;--~~j:.;.2~-:-:;:;~-·~--~~-;; . \? ~\ '/~or G>)fl pQfSO~L ~fior . ~on '

_, · -CONCOROIENSIS Februa-ry 2, 1989 Page 9 FEATU-RE ARTICL-ES The Health And ·Fitness Column- JJy JACQUELINE, RANDALL Many students are becoming interested in vegetarianism and eating less r~d met. These people are turning to vegetarianism for a variety of reasons, whether it be health- related, ethical or ecological. $()me just feel healthier, more alert, less tired and \lighter'; with the elimination of red meat. Others just don't like the taste . .In this column, I will d~scribe the different types of veogetadans and give a few examples of related food C()mbinatioils. In addition, I wiU discuss the safety and health benefits of these rigid diets. Different vegetarian diets are sllitable for different people's dietaiy needs. A strict vegetarian or vegan does not eat animal products of any kind and his/her source of protein is entirely derived from ptant products. As a vegan, he r~ceives all his nutrients. from f()ur basic groups: vegetables, fruits, grains, beans and nuts. A lactovegetarian gets his protein· in the · form of milk, cheese and dairy products but does not eat meat, fish, IJOultry or eggs. This type of diet consists of a balance of foods from five groups; v·egetables, fruits, grains, beans-nut-.seeds, .dairy pro- ducts~ Ovolactovegetarians to~ tally exclude rneat, fish and poultry from their diet . and derive their protein in the form of eggs and dairy products. Fruitarians are people who eat only raw fruit, vegetables, nuts, sprouted .seeds and grains. Lastly, a macrobiotic dieter practices a variety of diets including vegan, lacto- veget~rian a:p.d ovolac.to- vegetarian; in other words, a macrobiptic eliminates animal foods but eats fish, eggs and dairy products. Most macro- biotics apparently are vege- t.-ians. Macrobiotic diets mainly focus on whole grain cereals and flours, beans and other legumes, vegetables, sea vegetables, fruits, nuts and seeds. Some people are \part- time\ vegetarians and eat meat, fish or poultry once in a while. Others claim to be vegetarians and eat fish but eliminate meat and poultry. Research shows that a vegetafian diet decreases risk of cancer of we ~olon, breast and uterus because vegetarian diets are lower in saturated fats and cholesterol. Vegetarian diets have many health benefits. February Events . Feb 1-2 Feb 1-10 Feb 3 Feb 3 Feb 3-5 Feb 5-7 Feb. 6-14 Feb 7 F~b 8 Feb 9 Feb 9-12 Feb 10-12 Feb. 15 Feb 17-19 Feb 2().;24· Feb 21-22 Feb 21-22 Feb 22 Feb 22 Feb 22;.;24 .. Feb 23 Feb 23 Feb 24 Feb 24-26 SDj' Puzzle Sale Circle K Flower Sale Sp-eaking Competition IWA Reggae Band 8-l0:15pm College _Center · A Fish Called Wanda :BLAS Plays . DG Candy Grams SOT Puzzle Sale ·· Disney Film Cabaret -Winterfest Film: Bodyheat Film: Betty .Blue -,.,,··.. . . .· Film: M\dnight Run Foosball Tournament -Jail and Bail Vintage Clothing Film: Arthur Crosstalk Bloodmobile Panhellenic Founders Day - Band. Film: The Accused • Yet, a vegetarian must be aware of his protein intake._He should know how to combine vegetable protein in a way that makes it complete and fulfills his body prqtein requirement.. It is more cruc-ial for vegans te watch their protein require, ments because they primarily get their protein only from plant sources. To get protein from a vegetarian diet re- memberto; 1. Combine legumes (dried peas and beans or peanuts} with grains. 2. Combine legumes with nuts and seeds. 3. Combine eggs or dairy products with a vegetable protein. Also, vegetarians should be . more concerned with their vitamin and mineral needs. Many vegetarians take vita- mins to supplement their dietary needs. Vegans are usually deficient in calcium and must get it frorn plant sources such as broccoli, collards, kale, dandelion greens, mustard greens, bok choy, soy beans and dried fruits. For a more indepth description of how to combine vegetable proteins, please read Dietfor & Small · Planet. by F. M. Lappe. It should be noted that it is possible, of course, to be a meat eater and stay healthy; but eating meat isn't necessary. Also, vegetarianism isn't necessary. It is a matter of personal choice. Please . .direct your questions and comments to Health/Fit- ness Editor Box 1993. Have a great week. BLAS c·orner Cultural Awareness: Did You Know? By BLAS Since !'952 the Puerto Rican Flag, a single white star on a triangulat blue field with red and white stripes has shared the tradewind ·with the United States Flag. Puerto Rico is called Estado Libre Asociado (Associated Free State), which is akin to commonwealth status. In choosing a distinctive_ flag, it was decided to revive one which had been adopted by the Puerto Rican patriots of 1895 who were affiliated with the Cuban Revolutionary Party which was the spearhead of the movement for the iildependence of both countries from Spain. It is similar to that of Cuba except that the five stripes of equal width consists of three red ones and two white, and the hoist is blue charges with a white five-pointed star. Technically, Puerto Rican people are American citizens. On the island of Puerto Rico, there is no president, so they have yet to declare independence like say a small hispanic island such as the Dominican Republic. Another interesting fact about Puerto Rican people here in America is that they cannot vote for the president of the United States, but they can be drafted into the American Army. Puerto Rican American people still feel that they have a long way to go until they can call the United States their home. Upcomjng Events Sunday. Feb. 5 1989, Colleg_e Center Auditoriwn@ 7 p.m. \Black Man ill Tbe Bottle\· The pliEht of the Black Man in America will be explored. His suffering and bouts of low self-esteem will be exposed and exorcised. An engaging and comedic re-enactment of the problems the Black Man faces from self-doubt and laten.t discrimination. · Monday, Feb. 5, 1989, College Center Auditorium@ 8 p.m. \Malcolm X: A Portrait\ and \A Black Cbilll 11 ~A one man Show about the man who m..oved the :Black Struggle forward at a fast and controverSial pace. ~ ~~ptettes about growing up .as a ~1ac~:9¥~ ~ tb.~ .~~et~· ·. . ' Tuesday, Feb. 7, 1989, College Center Auditori\liil@ 8:30p.m. \Sisters of a Darker Hew\ - -Black Women Poets bring their creative spirits together to sing their oWll. praises~ CQme hear them make some foot stompil'lg and hair raising revelations about themselves and their black sisters. These rainbow se~kers stir the imagination of others with primal beats. ALL SHOWS ARE FOR ONE NIGHT ONLY AND ARE FREE. Wednesday, Feb. 9, 19&9, College Center Auditorium@ 7 p.m .. 1 ' Hands That Ple!ked No Cotton 11 - Guest hist«ian and lecturer Professor A.J. William Myers, Chair. Black ~tudies Department SUNY New Paltz . Friday, Feb. 10, 1989, Cnltural Unity Center, (right next to North College)@ 9 p.m. ·In celebration of Winte:rfest \Open House.\ Free Food and movie. Everyone WELCOME. BLAS hopes that .the campus community supports all the upcoming events that have been scheduled for Black- History Month.

CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Soviet· Student-s View Arme~nia,n Earth.quake From Unio-n By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS On December 7, 1988 the Soviet Union suffered one of the most de.vas tating earthquakes ever known in history. When the clock ticked at 11:41 am, the rumbling sound of the shaking earth eclipsed into cries of death and help which echoed throughout the univeTSe. The earth's surface from the cities .of Spitak (the epicenter) to Yei:evan had been split apart like an accordion; an accordion which was to play the mourn- ing song of the Armenian soul. Apartment Jmildin:gs ·'were crumpled like paper, hospiials and schools were crushed to pieces, :and workers were en tom bed in the factories which they worked in. Survivors frantically searched within the ruins of catastrophe hoping to find and embrace their loved ones. As the hours went by, the death tolls climbed (see charts for most recent estimations). The home- less were in the hundreds of thousands. Th.e city which suffered the worst devastation was Spitak which was virtually \erased\ from th~ face of the earth. Ninety -nine percent of the population had entered into the dark. under-ground world of Hades. Instantaneously, world hu- manity was awakened and resurrected from its deep sleep. Help was channeled from within every part of the world. Countries contributed cash, relief flights, rescue teams, communication equipment, clothes, blankets, etc. (see chart). In effect, the well known saying, \The worst brings out the best in all of us,\ had definitely proven its validity on a universal scale; Gevork Nakhaprtian and Avto Gigilkeski, are two Soviet exchange students who are attending Union this year. The first is from Armenia, and the second is from Georgia. having been notified b-y Professor Board and Professor Thomas of the tragedy that had occurred, George said that he was unable to call home until a week after the earthquake had occurred. A vto however was successful, but worried after talking to his mother who had not heard anything from b.er other son who was stationed in Leninkan (apporximately 35 miles from · the epic en tel'). Fortunately, after his father went to Lenink:an good news arrived about his brother's condition. I continued by aski11g Gevork the following questio11, \Were all tbe buildill,gs destroyed·; th·at is, was the destruction ln. ore among old · buildings or new buildings?\ He answered by sayin.g that· all types of buildings were destroyed, but \what -is important to note,\ he con- ·'tirtued ·\is·. that the· boitdings were: architected in su(;h a w~y · so as to be· able to endure 8 rfchters ndt It. whiCh was: the intensity of this- earthquake.\ He also noted that in previous years, there was a seismolog-ist who suggested that the buildings should be made to endure higher intensities, l:Jut he was not \listened\ to because \he was not trusted.\ Gevork and Avto concluded by stating that they had learned from the Soviet Union that various neighboring republics have assumed the responsi- bility of various regions within the destructed areas of Armeuia, with respect to funding the construction of buildings. Both stated, that this plan of \internal aid\ will be accomplished by 1990. In ·continuation, a question was posed with respect to the government's response and its effectiveness to the needs of-the devastated area. Gevork simply stated, that \the government did the. best that it could have done, and it will continue todo the best that it can do.\ I decided to pursue the question a little further by asking, \What does the media write?\ so as to see the extent of \glasnost.\ The only critique which was expressed by Gevork, was the ineffecti-ve distribution; that is, not that certain areas were getting mote help than others, but that the transferring of consta.nt incoming aid was a problem. When the first part of the above question was posed. to Avto, he responded with perplexion toward the \experts\' ability to have predicted or have warned the Armenian populace of a possible eartb.quak;e. (The second part~ was never answered, since A vto attempted to exhibit his \humor\ with me.) In continuation, a question . was asked on how they viewed the internati(:)nal reaction. Gevork said., 1that it was the bigg~st contribution of aid ever made wil:hin the past seventy yeats, aside from that of World War II. \It should be greatly appreciated by the Sov·iet Union.\ Avto agreed. with Gevork, but added an interesting point: ;\it was interesting to see that the government accepted help from countries witli which it does not have 'frie~dly' relations, such as IsraeL\ . · As. ~- l~~t qqe#ign_ qf tije interview, I directed my interest to the eff~t tllat the earthquake might have had with respect to the nationality conflict of Nagomo-Karabakh, and peres- troika. In Gevotk's analysis he initially claimed that \perestroika itself is that which 'exposed' the nationality problem.\ And \the way to solve this proslem is through perestroika. If perestroika succeeds, then this problem will be solved.\ He continued by ·stating that the governments primary concern is that of directing sources and energy to the Armenian population. In short, the priorities and coll,cerns within the government's age.ncta have been re-evaluated, and hence altered. He concluded_ very nicely by referring to a statement that was made to the people in the government newspaper Izvestia,· \first be human beings and then Russians; Armenians. or Azerbaijanis.\ Avto also concluded b-y stating that \No matter what politics are, human factor comes into play.\ With these last statements, I urge the student body, the various clubs existent within . the Union community, the faculty, and the administration to help the Armenians. Let UNION, also prove that \the worst brings out the best in all of us.\ To Help Armenia Call Anthee at 374-3833. Applications for all summer and fall 1989 terms abroad are due in the Terms Abroad office by 5 p.m. -on Monday, February 6. These programs 'inclllde: SocialiZed medicirle; Bath,' york, Ftandi. Italy. Chiria, Japan: iiiiCfHiiz11: ·-· -- • ~- -. Ihfonnation meetings for next fall's programs in Brazil and York will~ place on Wednesday,February 1, at 4:30p.m. The Brazil' meeting will take place in SS 103, the York meeting in HU 110. Information meetings for alll989-90 terms abroad will take .place OJJ Thursday. February 2, at 4:30p.m. Meeting locations areas follows: Bath SS 012, France SS 103,Italy HU 115 China Psych 113, J11pan Psych 102,, Greece SS 112 Israel SS 014, Spain HU 112, Ba!bados SS 010 Vienna SS 105, Soc Med SS 104 The deadline for applying for tile 1989 fall tenns m Japan and China is February (;i, PlejiSe sign_up for these prqgrams in the Terms Abroad office in the Huma:riities Building. Students on the Tetm in Javan study at Kansai University of Foreign .Studies, halway between Osaka and Kyoto, for fifteen weeks during the fall semester. Each Union student takes four cowses and receives four uni011 course credits. One of thse courses must be spoken Japanese, while the other three may he chose:.n from a list of approximately fifteen courses on many different!lspects of Japanese culture, including reading and writing ofJapanese. Group trips ate made to several places in Japan, including Hiroshima. Each Union student lives with a Japanese family, perhaps the best partof the whole program. St11dents who participate in the Tetm in China study at Nanjing Teachers University in Nanjing fat eleven week1:• While there students take two courses in Chfuese artd one hl Chi.rtese cultUre. Sti:ldents live in a dormitory ()II campus with many opportunities for contact witlt Chinese students. In the middle of the term a week's trip is made to Beijing. Alsb during the tenn a four-day trip is made to climb the Yellow Mountains. In addition to the above terms in China and Japan, Uni<ln also has an e-xchange program in Japan\ Each year one Union student is selected to study for the entire academic year at Kansai University of Foreign Studies (Kansal Gaidai), The deadline for applying for this program is also February 6. All scholl!l\ships continue in force while students are oo these progtallls. If you would like more infortnatiqn about the terms in Japan or China, or the ex.clu\nge program in Japan 1 please see Professor Thu~ton, SS 213B, or Professor Thqmas, Director of TeiJIIs Abroad, l{umarrities Building, 2110. Dr. Frank D. McCann, Professor of History an:.d Director of the University of New Hampshire's Center for· International PerspecthES' · 'The Bmziliim Military today and yesterday.' . -1' Monday, Feb~ 6 11:40 - ~:45, Social Sciences 110 ... :;,.••. Professor McCann, a specialist on the Brazilian ·Military, has · published numerous hooks and articles on Brazilian Society and Politics. STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR ~OR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD . Sev-eral colleges ofOJo:ford University have invited 11\3e'Nashlngton Intemati()nal Studl\'l Cent~r - - to··recommend-quallfied students··to study for•Olll!\ year or for one .or two tenns. Lower Jun1or status Is required. and gra4uate study 'is avallable. Sl!.:~dents arc direcijy enrollecHnthelr colleges and ·receive transcrtpts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. <;:oi· lege In Oxford. A special· summer session ls·dli\eded by WISC. · INTERN IN . WASHINGTON, LONDON WISC offets summer lntemshlpe with Congres-s, 'lllllth the White House, with tile media and with think tanks. Gov-ernment alld Journalism ~unes ;i!!'e taugbt by seni()r-!evel government official!'. who are also scholars. and by e){perlencel jo-wnailsts. Slmdar opporli.tniU<!S In .public policy internships are offered (with. academtc credit~ k• London (fall. Spring and Swnmer) WFISC The WIIIJldu;,il:ollJnternadonalStu!Hes Center 1.:14· \Mas1<achuaetts AVe •• N.E. Suite 230 \\7aslll~gltln. O.C. 20002 (202) 547·3275 EO/ AA

Page 1() CONCORDIENSlS February 2, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Soviet Stud,ents View Armenian Earthquake From Union By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS On December 7, 1988 the Soviet Union suffered one of the most devastating earthquakes ever known in history. When the clock ticked at 11 :41 am, the rumbling sound of the shaking earth eclipsed into cries of death and help which echoed throughout the universe. The earth's surface from the cities of Spi tak (the epicenter) to Yerevan had beeR split apart like an accordion; an accordion which was to play the mourn- iNg song of the Armenian soul. Aparcment buildings were crumpled like paper, hospitals and schools were crushed to pkces, and workers were entombed in the factories which they worked in. Survivors frantically searched within the ruins of catastrophe hoping to find and em brace th~ir loved ones. As the hours went by, the death tolls climbed (sec charts for most recent estimations). The home· less were in the hundreds of thousands. The city which suffered the worst devastation was Spital< which was virtually \erased\ from the face of the earth. Ninety-nine percent of the population had entered into the dark under-ground world of Hades. Instantaneously, world hu- manity was awakened and resurrected from its deep sleep. Help was channeled from within every part of the world. Countries contributed cash, relief flights, rescue teams, communication equipment, clothes, blankets, etc. (see charl). In effect, the well known saying, \The worst brings out the best in all of us,\ had definitely proven its validity on a universal scale. G cvork Nakhaprtian and A vto Gigilkeski, are two Soviet exchange students who are attending Union this year. The first is from Armenia, and the second is from Georgia. having been notified by Professor Board and Professor Thomas of the tragedy that had occurred, George said that he was unable to call home until a week after the earthquake had occurred. Avto however was successful, but worried after talkin)!; to his mother who had not heard anything from her other son who was stationed in Leninkan (apporximately 35 miles from the epiceoter). Fortunately, after hi!s father went to Leninkan good oews arrived abmH his brother's condition. I continued by asking Gevork the following question, \Were all the buildings destroyed; that is, was t'he destruction more among old buildings or new build i n g s? II He answered by saying that all types of buildings were destroyed, but \what is ·important to note,\ he con- tinued \is that the buildings were architected in such a way so as to be able to endure 8 richtcrs not 11, which was the intensity of this earthquake. II He also noted that in previous years, there was a seismologist who suggested that the buildings should be made to endure higher intensities, but he was not \listened\ to because \he was not trusted. II Gevork and A vto concluded by stating that they had learned from the Soviet Union that various neighboring republics have assumed the responsi- bility of various regions within the destructed areas of Armenia, with respect to funding the construction of buildings. Both stated, that this plan of \internal aid\ will be accomplished by 1990. In continuation, a question was posed with respect to the government's response and its effectiveness to the needs of the devastated area. Gevork simply stated, that \the government did the best that it could have done, and it will continue to do the best that it can do.\ I decided to pursue the question a little further by asking, \What does the media write?\ so as to see the extent of \glasnost.\ The only critique which was expressed by Gevork, was the ineffective distribution; that is, not that certain areas were getting more help than others, but that the transferring of constant incoming aid was a problem. When the first part of the above question was posed to Avto, he responded with perplexion toward the \experts'\ ability to have predicted or have warned the Armenian populace of a possible earthquake. (The secood part · was never answered, since A vto attempted to exhibit his \humor\ with me.) In continuation, a q_uestioH . was asked on how they viewed the international reaction. Gevork said, that it was the biggest contribution of aid ever made within the past seventy years, aside from that of World War II. \It should be greatly appreciated by the Soviet Union.\ Avto agreed with Gevork, but added an interestiFlg point: \it was interesting to see that the government accepted help from countries with. which it does not have friendly relations, such as Israel.\ As a last question of the interview, l directed rny inteJ:est to the effect that the earthquake might have had with respect to the nationality conflict of Nagorno-Karabakh, and peres- troika. In Gevork's analysis he initially claimed that \perestroika itself is that which 'exposed' the nationality problem.\ And \the way to solve this problem is through perestroika. If perestroika succeeds, then this problem will be solved.\ He continued by ·stating that the governments primary concern is that of directing sources and energy to the Armenian population. In short, the priorities and concerns within the government's agenda have been re-evaluated, and hence altered. He concluded very nicely by referring to a statement that was made to the people in the government newspaper Izvestia, \first be human beings and then Russians, Armenians, or Azerbaijanis.\ Avto also concluded by stating that \No matter what politics are, human factor comes into play.\ With these last statements, I urge the student body, the various clubs existent within the Union community, the faculty, and the administration to help the Armenians. Let UNION, also prove that \the worst brings out the best in all of us.\ To Help Armenia Call Anthee at 374-3833. Applications for all summer and fall 1989 terms abroad are due in the Terms A.broad office by 5 .~.m. on Monday, February 6. These programs include: Socialized medicirte, Bath, York, France, Italy, Chma, Japan, and Brazil. Information meetings for next fall's programs in Brazil and York will take place on Wednesday,Febmary 1, at 4:30p.m. The Bra7.il meeting will take place in SS 103, the York meeting in HU 110. . Information meetings for all 1989-90 terms abroad will take place on Thursdav. February 2, at 4:30p.m. Meeung locations are as follows: Bath SS 012, France SS 103, Italy HU 115 Cilina Psych 113, Japan Psych 102, Greece SS 112 Israel SS 014, Spain HU 112, Barbados SS 010 Vienna SS 105, Soc Med SS 104 The deadline for applying for the 1989 fall terms irt Japan and China is February 6. Please sign up for these programs in the 'Tenns Abroad office in the Humanities Building. Students on the Term in Japan study at Kansai University of Foreign Studies, h~lway betw~en Osaka and .Kyoto, for fifteen weeks during the fall semester. Each Union student takes four courses and rec~1ves four un~on cours~ credlts. One of thse courses must be spoken Japanese, while the other three may be chosen from a hst of ap~roxrrnately fifteen courses on mlllly different aspects of Japanese culture, including reading and writing of Japanese. Group tnps are made to several places in Japan, including Hiroshima. Each Union student lives with a _Japanese family: pe~ap~ the b~~t part of the whole progr~m. Students who participate in the Tenn in Chirta study at NanJmg Teachers Umversny m NanJtng for eleven week~. While · there students take two courses in Chinese and one in Chinese culmre. Students live in a dormitory on campus With many opportunities for contact with Chinese students. In the middle of the term a week's trip is made to Beijing. Also during the term a four-day trip is made to climb the Yellow Mountains. . . In addition to the above tenns in China and Japan, Union also has an exchange program m Japan. Each year one Uruon student is selected to study for the entire academic year at Kansai University of Foreign Studies (!Cansai Gaidai). The deadline for :lpplying for this program is also February 6. . . . All scholarships continue in force while students are on these programs. If you would like more informatiOn about the terms in Japan or China, or the exchange program in Japan, please see Professor Thurston, SS 2138, or Professor Thomas, Director ofTenns Abroad, Humanities Building, 2110. . - .~, Socvle;t roore s:qrvivors · ofTadzh\ •· · villag~ of S · . villa;ges; w;ilt 9~., ' El S~lvadnr: 'Jsl· near ij)e presid~··· gueri~~· acctt~,~d,'t~e q~peyit.lJ.tion iil.. re3~9~ elections.. · · · Chile; A T~t~d _ (;p;~e~n- ~~ne~at acsu'Sed of the , 1~16 .. ~$S~$itlatiQU ... of l~t:ti~sr: ~tti*~~~l ~~i;lJ~: Otltmdo F-et~1ier in .washing;tqn,. d~W!ed ~e a1legatidti. · Afg~JJ,i~ta,* The U.S; Embassy. htts' ask~d · Ameri,caru:; in Afghanista,n to leave.tb.e ~ount:ry. The:U.$. request stemmed from the death .of 4QO rehels by Afgb.~ troops wqo so~ght to . break a food blocAAde Jn :Kab~l~ ~oyi~tbornbing raid.& were . criti<;jz~dJ>ythe U!_S •. Wf!~ Sai¢th,ey,V~Qlated MoSC<J'W~S·p1edge not to petfor,m ()ffensive ~ctions during the Soviet pullout :· Jap~ptJ~iut~$~ ~~~~net.member Ken.liarada resigne4~after , being; linked. to· $e .Re?'ruit Co. scandal. Hara~ · admit~d re~ivi.ng 'donations frQm the firm. Takeshita's gnvemmenthas received full:her embarrassment because Harada· is one <Jf three cabinet members who has left in two months. Peru: Eight more bodies have been pulled from the Sol de Oro mine near Nazca~ Peru. More than 100 miners were trapped inside. The rrime collapse was caused by a dispute that resulted in some miners setting fire to wooden tunnel supports. Dr. Frank D. McCann, Professor of History and Director of the University of New Hampshire's Center for· International Perspectives 'The Brazilian Military today and yesterday.' Monday, February 6 11:40 - 12:45, Social Sciences 110 Professor McCann, a specialist on the Brazilian Military, has published numerous books and articles on Brazilian Society and Politics. STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD Several colleges of Oxford Umverslty have invited The Washing! on International Stuclies Cent•· 10 recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terrru;. L.ower Jumor status is requirt\d. and graduare sludy ts available. Students are directly enrolled rn therr colleges and rt\Ceive trnnscripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducled by a U.S. C:ol- lege in Oxford A special summer session is directed by W!SC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WISC offers summer internships With Congress. with the White House. with the media and With think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught by senlor·level government officials. who are also scholars. and by experienced jollfTllllillts. Simllar opportunltles ln public policy lnterru!hips are offered (With academic credit) in L.ondon (Fall. Spting and Sununer) WRSC The Washington International Studiel!l Center 214 Massachusetts Ave •. N.E:. SUite 230 Washington. D.C. 20002 (202\547-3275 EO I AA

' L i ' i .',· ' . . . CONCORVIeNSlS J7~bruary 2, 1989 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Ttnsion In The. West Balik: Mr Further Venture Into The land By JON COHN Israeli plates 'W.;~& rumored to have beell set~~g r~\Veng~ for The complexities qf the . an earlier terto::rist attack which Middle East often se¢m to cost 6 Israeli liv~~. although focus on Israel, long seen as this was newer confirmed. fo:reign tissue in the regj.op. To While the Jn&st .politically get something of an idea about visible entity, tile :PLO w.hat was .gping on~ .lily actually had li!:tle to do with Swedish roommate, who Spoke this generally· ~p1>11taneous Arabic and I, decided to visit movement. A!mfat has been the West B.ank. We felt that if known to call tit~ West Bank we could speak tQ. people. Q~l. from Tunisia OOl:'diSCIISSion and both sides, p~rbaps we would . o(iyn geqtly ~greed with. . be ~ble. to write some,~hiQg Mter tlli$ jntc!dllction, we .about it. · went · to a. {~ltl().llS jew~sh · . #rom Jerusatem we h~aded · settlement called. Kit:v~t Arbi.l. .south towards: .H~brort, The ;settlers, IllaJJY' American, lmmediately we noticed .the . .beUe:v¢ .that !Qe;se .land$ -are broken. windows on. the busses. God~giv~JJ. :'['h_.<~ir . seulements a~though people .seemed ·to m:tH~xpbUpe(t ~acol)..tinuation ignore· them as N~w Yorkers o( J ewi~;;h _ptesel\ce,. end~d by igno~;e graffiti on their _trains.·. the Arab :t:lots of 1929 .. One the bus .takes you out of urball... v.ery 3J!icqlate Y~lllan told u~ Jerusa·lem and into its she_ noticed tile b:roken bus surrounding rocky hi~.-:Roeiq; window~;; :~n~ .· tllis only and. orchards. pan out on .the strengthened j!e:r resolve, As hills. in either direction, .~91!g sbe worked her Mat;Intqsh, she the narrow Winding r~ad. Our told us of Israe.1's precariouS: first. stop. was l3ethlehem and it existence before 19'67, behind was quite apparent that the city borders that Abba-Eban refettd was having ~oubles.. to as -Auscllw-it2 lines. Political graffiti covers many The settle-r~ -<:ame shortly ()f the closed shops. Merchants after the .. '67 vrar, at least as. a sold their goods discretely~ measure again~t tlleir. enemy's. from street curbs .. We read proximity:. We llad to admi,re wearied faces., but the her .strength.. desJlite the continuing preseJice of tourists political rel)erc;llsSi<>ns of this showed that this was not one -doctrine. Thtae is not a country of the real trouble zones. in the wod<l, Il{)lt e-ven. Israel's Among other things, .the closest allies,. yytJicb..approve of uprising has been a movement the occupatio11. All around tile against a long established class beautiful to'Ml, w~ saw young structure within the Palestinian .children, ma:Il~ new Ethiopian people. Intifadeh. translated is immigrants. 'f]Jes(l people had the equivalent to brushing the laid down their roots here. One dust off one's coat. This would can clearly s@J:Iow close these seem to be the frame o;f mind people . feel t<> this lar,td, of a people involved in some . although our 11-txt stop revealed kind of slow. motion war. the human ~ost ·()f this policy. Ignored by the Arab conference The progralll,. pa1t of both in Amman in 1987, and major parties' platforms of the frustrated by 21 year Israeli past, has ooel! t.IJ.e source of occupation, the uprising was . increasing. c;()otr().versy. Today sparked by a ear. crash which its. ·economic a:ntl political · resulted in two Arab casualties livelihood is; at tile .forefront of last yeai. The car. with yellow Israeli conceJ.1l. ,--.---------------· .. r - FRENCH f·ILM \Le Retour De ·Martin G·uerre•• ·(1989) (The Return of Martin G.IJene) by Daniel Vigne with Nathalie Bye and Gerard OePa~dieu in French with Engnsh subtitles. Monday February 6 at 7:0() PM 406-GC In the val1eys ~olllld Hebron were many small Arab villages, wlricll seemed to run into one another along the rocky lands.ca:pe. We saw Palestinian s<Jhool children and talked to metdlalltS. Th.ei:r routines contio11e as always, so it seems. The cycle 1>f violence has become a way of life here. A scared settler shoots a youth. Revenge fot a. bus bombing costing the llv~s <>f a young Israeli mother and ber children is revenged ll' the army demolishing s11spects' houses. Out of pa11ic,. ;a Vietnam veteran settler llccidentally snoots two Isr-aeli soldieJ:s. The 'cycle of .hatred and misunderstan.diag tears apmt two .pe<>.ples. We went t1> a Palestinian refugee camp,,es.lablished after the often vOI11nt~ry mass e:JS.odus of 19-48. . All the Student FODllll ba;s accepted a passive attitu(Je since the representatives. took office in September. Ar&·Uild the camp we saw 1i.11es. Lines people have also becom-e a way of life. One gets a card to work in Israel, ()thers wa:it for buses, or . go to scb.ocl. Work is so important and ~OlJ)loyment has actually increa.sed., bringing greater prosperlty than before 1967, The pe():ple we talked to said that although they were better off, th.ey ~d not feel as well off as tbe Israelis, including th~ Js.raeli Arabs. Emigration t-o ()t!J.er countries, such as Ku:wait,. bru; ~lso been very common. All arou11d tile country and especially in tt.is area, one \is always. aware 1>f the soldiers. Every Israeli is required to serve, many being sent in to quell violence ater a mere 3 weeks training. One 18-year- old 'told 11s about sleepless night patrols~ -ccnstantly on alert. The ·Palestinian boys Lanptage Tables Mondays: 12:45 • 1:45 FRENCH 1 SPANISH JAPANESE 1 Tliesd~ys: ,11:3-0 - 12:30 CH1NESE_ Wednesdays: 12:45 - 1:45 ! GERMAN • RUSSIAN . Thursdays: 11:30 - 12:30 IT AllAN Friday 12:45 • 1:45 ISU Meet in the Upperclass ,..._ ______________ .__ ____ ..___.. ___ ....,~ Diningroorn :in..tbe College Center. SUMMER YOUTH CAft1P IN THE GERMAN DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC The GDR-USA Friendship Society will bostlts Stli y~ULh SUlllntcr camp for U.s. students from Jttly lS<tuAugust 21, 1989: Two cities will host the program simultaneously-,BctliJJ and Leipzig. U.S. students, for thc:fust!l'\1/o weeks, will live with GDR students in a s\lllimer camp as;range«lby FDJ,tlte GDR youth organization. Tbe:Yv;iilwork with GDR students on a Berlin or Leipzig construction site. 'llliso will (liovide the opportunity to get to klio\' <lne another and see a bit.ofthe country. During the stay there will ~c ll\CCliDgs and talks witbGDR officials as weD ;~s guided tours and events to learn about life in the GDR. The group, during the third week, wi:ll go to a youtbbaosleJ'Oil the Baltic Sea for rest and relaxati()n, T11is will introduce the U.S. students to the norther~ part of th:e<lDR.. Participants must be U:S. citizens and enrolled at ~a U:S. UlliVersity or college. Tlie camp is open t<l IJ[)otll women and men.· Knowledge of German and construction exp~ri~nc:e are not required. During the stay in.tlie Gl>R. medical . care; i( needed, will be provided free of charge. Thcpal\lieipants nceclb.ealtb and accident insurancet<O cover posstble expenses •in the U.S. · - Participants must pay for travel to and .from the <JJ)R. Astl1e sumlll¢r cunp is subsidizetl by tbe <JDR· USA . Friendship Society, the overall fee for the stay is oDir $15tl.OO. This includes board and lodging, pro,gram and 100 marks pocket money. Anyone interested, please contact Pti()fessor Kellenter, Chair of l1<Jd~rn Language Department as soon as possible. ., I' throw rocks with metal in them, or they comtnonlv ~ firebombs at vehicles. His commander .has been hit on the head by a brick dropped from a r()()ftop. We saw chewing gum, a .peace ·symbol on a helmet or a Rambo sticker on the barrel of an M-16. We were told of a five-man patrol entering villages and being surrounded on all sides by enraged youths. No ()ne will justify the often · deadly force of the army. but their situation is not military but political. The youths on both sides are unfartunately in the center of the stalemate. We tried to understand the occupation in tetms of lsraeli ; history. In their short 40 years of existence they have fought five major wars. People have been killed in terrorist attacks, others ate victims of Nazi atrocities. People lilce any others can only endure so much. Their resolve is strengthened by Arab threat .. This woQ].d explain the rise of the \right/hawk\ Likud party. On the other side· is the \left/dove\ Labour party. While they speak in principle of international conference on the territories, the Likud resists negotiations while they perceive. themselves in. a position of weakness. The party line has been warning the country of the PLO's public relations advantage in Europe, a position especially feared since political overtures during the Lebanon war of 1982. On the left, groups such 3$ Natan's \Peaee Now\ party, are saying that the country cannot afford to waste this opportunity to speak to the PLO. Their strength draws from the Labour and Centre parties and has been increasingly growing. In a unity of dissension, Israel formed their 12th Knesset, or parliament, Yitzhak Shamir of the Likud as Prime Minister. Shimon Peres of Labout as Finance Minister. The country is as split as the U.S. was during Vietnam, the result is a political deadlock. \ , My time in Israel certainly made me more politically aware. Unlike our elections, the Israelis vote for party lists. The idea is to eliminate local 0 a: ·o .... ·. H--'1\' \ ,Ja-· .... ~.~ .... :.l .. :tt ana tocliS on the national issues. DUring the el~ctions we foll<>wed the dramatic party · maneuvers, typical of a parliamentary system. The country has been politically polarized since 1981 and has left the two parties needing smatter lists, such as religious, to form a government. This would somewhat explain the proplems Israel has in forming a government that can make decisions. To dramatize how politicaily volatile the situation is, one just has to look at the car bombing deaths of 8 soldiers just before the elections. Emphasizing the Israeli i;npulse to resist, a <!~finite surge resulted en the right. In this small country, many people personally knew these soldiers, some of the casualties older men from the reserves. This is the way politics are in Israel. I feel that after having spent some Hme in the co11ntry, I have only Increased my interest in such a complex place. I have only slightly touched on the political situation of a land, whose inhabitants can draw relevant data for their cause as far back as 3000 yeru:s. Today so many lines have been drawn between people, religious/secular, hawk/dove, Israeli/Palestinian. New political answers must be explored, so that these human barricades can be tom down for the benefit of all. FASHION SHOW The I.S.U. will be recruiting models to ta.Ke part in its Spring Term Fashion Show. We need as many men and women as we can possibly recruit. Interviews held by our Interviewing Committee will take place beginning next week. The Fashion Show will be very contemporary, featuring several styles of clothing (well-known . brands) from nearby shopping malls. So if y<>u're really enthusiastic, fun-loving, dedicated or just out to . strut you stuff to the rest of the campus community, come to the next I.S.U. meeting February 6th, from 6:30- 7:00 pm on the 3rd floor of Carnegie Hall If not, please contact Laura CalVi {Box #369/x6834) or myself, Edgar Letriz (Box #1475/374-1994)before the dealine of February 6. Modeling positions will have to be limited · so please respond as soon as possible. Again, recruitment will begin im.mediately. Please contact us and take into consideration that modeling ·for the Fashion Show takes a great deal of dedication · and time in your part as well as a lot of fun and satisfaction.

CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Te:nsion In T'he West Ba:nk: My Furt,her Venture Into The Land :By JON COHN The complexities of the Middle East often seem to focus on Israel, long seen as foreign lissue in the region. To get something of an idea about what was goi11g on, my Swedish roommate, who spoke Arabic and I, decided to visit the West Bank. We felt that if we could speak to people on both sides, perhaps we would be able to write som~thing about it. From Jerusalem we headed south towards Hebron. Immediately we noticed the broken windows on the busses, althougll people seemed to ignore them as New Yorkers ignore graffiti on their trains. The bus takes you out of urban Jerusalem and into its surrounding rocky hills. Rocks and orchards pan out on the hills ill either direction, along the narrow winding road. Our first stop was Bethlehem and it was quite apparent that the city was having troubles. Political graffiti covers many of the closed shops. Merchants sold their goods discretely, from street curbs. We read wearied faces, but the continuing presence of tourists showed that this was not one of the real trouble zones. Among other things, the uprising has been a movement against a long established class structure within the Palestinian people. Intifadeh, translated is the equivalent to brushing the dust off one's coat. This would seem to be the frame of mind of a people involved in some kind of slow motion war. Ignored by the Arab conference in Amman in 1987, and frustrated by 21 year Israeli occupation, the uprising was sparked by a car crash which resulted in two Arab casualties last year. The car with yellow Israeli plates was rumored to have been seeking revenge for an earlier terrorist attack which cost 6 Israeli lives, although ,this was never confirmed. While the most politically visible entity, the PLO actually had little to do with this generally spontaneous movement. Arafat has been known to call the West Bank. from Tunisia for discussion and often gently disagreed with. After this introduction, we went to a famous jewish settlement called Kirvat Arba. The settlers, many American, believe that these lands are God-given. Their settlements are explained as a continuation of Jewish presence; ended by the Arab riots of 1929. One very articulate woman told us slle noticed the broken bus windows and this only strengthened her resolve, As she worked her Macintosh, she rold us of Israel's precarious existence before 1967, behind borders that Abba Eban referrd ro as Auschwitz lines. The settlers came shortly after the '67 war, at least as a measure against their enemy's proximity. We had to admire her strength, despite the political repercussions of this doctrine. There is not a country in the world, not even Israel's closest allies, which approve of the occupation. All around the beautiful town, we saw young children, many new Ethiopian immigrants. These people had laid down their roots here. One can clearly see how close these people feel to this land, although our next stop revealed the human cost of this policy. The program, part of both major parties' platforms of the past, has been the source of increasing controversy. Today its economic and political livelihood is at the forefront of Israeli concern. In the vaJ:leys armmd Hebmn wer,e many small Arab villages, which seemed to run into one another along the rocky landscape. We saw Palestinian school children and talked to merchants. Their routines continue as always, so it seems. The cycle of violence has become a way of life here. A scared senler shoots a youth. Revenge for a bus bombing costing fue li~es of a young Israeli mother and her children is revenged by the army demolishing. suspects' houses. Out of panic, a Vietnam veteran settler accidentally shoots two Israeli soldiers. The cycle of hatred and misunderstanding tears apart two peoples. We went to a Palestinian refugee camp,. established after the often voluntary mass exedus of 1948. All the Student Fomm has accepted a passive attitude since the representatives took office in September. Around the camp we saw lines. Lines people have also become a way of life. One gets a card to work in Israel, others wait for buses, or go to school. Work is so important and employment has actually increased, bringing greater prosperity than before 1967. The people we talked to said that although they were better off, they did not feel as well off as the Israelis, including the Israeli Arabs. Emigration to other countries, Sllch as Kuwait, has also been very common. All around the Country and especially in this area, one is always aware of the soldiers. Every Israeli is required to serve, many being sent in to quell violence after a mere 3 weeks training. One IS-year- old told us about sleepless night patrols, constantly on alert. The Palestinian boys --------------------------------~ r - FRENCH FILM I Language Tables Mondays: 12:45 - 1:45 ••Le Retour De Martin Guerre\ (1989) (The Return of Martin Guerre) by Daniel Vigne with Nathalie Bye and Gerard DePardieu in French with English subtitles. Monday February 6 at 7:00 PM 406 cc FRENCH SPANISH JAPANESE Tuesdays: CHINESE 11:30 - 12:30 Wednesdays: 12:45 - 1:45 'GERMAN RUSSIAN Thursdays: 11:30 - 12:30 ITAUAN Friday 12:45 - 1:45 ISU Meet in the Upperclass ''-------------------------..) Di.ningroom in the College Center. SUMMER YOUTH CAJt4P IN THE GERMAN DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC The GDR-USA Friendship Society will host its 5th youth summer camp for U.S. students from July 15 to August 21, 1989. Two cities will host the program simultaneously, Berlin and Leipzig. U.S. students, for the rust two weeks, will live with GDR students in a summer camp arranged by FDJ, the GDR youth organization. They will work with GDR students on a Berlin or Leipzig construction site. This will provide the opportunity to get to know one another and see a bit of the country. During the.stay there will be meetings and talks with G DR officials as well as guided tours and events to learn about life in the GDR. The group, during the third week, will go to a youth hostel on the Baltic Sea for rest and relaxation. This will introduce the U-S. students to the northern part of tbe GDR. Participants must be U.S. citizens and enrolled at a U.S. university or college. The camp is open to both women and men. Knowledge of German and construction experience are not required. During the stay in the GDR, medical . care, if needed, will be provided free of charge. The participants need health and accident insurance to cover poss1ble expenses in the U.S. Participants must pay for travel to and from the GDR. As the summer camp is subsidized by the GDR-USA . Friendship Society, the overall fee for tlae stay is only $150.00. This includes board and lodging, program and 100 marks pocket money. Anyone interested, please contact Professor Kellenter, Chai.r of !Iodern Language Department as soon as p¢ssible. throw rocks with metal in them, or they commonlv tos~ firebombs at vehicles. His commander has been hit on the head by a brick dropped from a rooftop. We saw chewing gum, a peace symbol on a helmet or a Rambo sticker on the barrel of an M-16. We were told of a five-man patrol entering viUages and being surro-unded on all sides by enraged youths. No one will justify the often deadly force of the army, but their situation is not military but political. The youths on both sides are unfortunately in the center of the stalemate. We tried to understand the occupation in terms of Israeli . history. In their short 40 years of existence they have fought five major wars. People have been killed in terrorist attacks, others are victims of Nazi atrocities. People like any others can only endure so much. Their resolve is strengthened by Arab threat. This would explain the rise of the \right/hawk\ Likud party. On the other side· is the \left/dove\ Labour party. While they speak in principle of international conference on the territories, the Likud resists negotiations while they perceive themselves in a position of weakness. The party line has been warning the country of the PLO's public relations advantage in Europe, a position especially feared since political overtures during the Lebanon war of 1982. On the left, groups such as Natan's \Peace Now\ party, are saying that the country cannot afford to waste this opportunity to speak to the PLO. Their strength draws from the Labour and Centre parties and has been increasingly growing. In a unity of dissension, Israel formed their 12th Knesset, or parliament, Yitzhak Shamir of the Likud as Prime Minister, Shimon Peres of Labout as Finance Minister. The country is as split as the U.S. was during Vietnam, the result is a political deadlock. My time in Israel certainly made me more politically aware. Unlike our elections, the Israelis vote for party lists. The idea is to eliminate local IULIIIU\U ._\,j5L<tLQ!JLUv an<l tocus on the national issues. During the elections we followed the dramatic party maneuvers, typical of a parliamentary system. The country has been politically polarized since 1981 and has left the two parties needing smaller lists, such as religious, to form a government. This would somewhat explain the proplems Israel has in forming a government that can make decisions. To dramatize how politically volatile the situation is, one just has to look at the car bombing deaths of 8 soldiers just before the elections. Emphasizing the Israeli impulse to resist, a C3finite surge resu!Kd w the light. In this small country, many people personally knew these s<Jldiers, some of the casualties older men from the reserves. This is the way politics are in Israel. I feel that after having spent some time in the country, I have only increased my interest in such a complex place. I have only slightly touched on the political situation of a land, whose inhabitants can draw relevant data for their cause as far back as 3000 years. Today so many lines have been drawn between people, religious/secular, hawk/dove, Israeli/Palestinian. New political answers must be explored, so that these human barricades can be tom down for the benefit of all. FASHION SHOW The I.S.U. will be recruiting models to take part in its Spring Term Fashion Show. We need as many men and women as we can possibly recruit . . Interviews held by our Interviewing Committee will take place beginning next week. The Fashion Show will be very contemporary, featuring several styles of cl()thing (well-known brands) from nearby shopping malls. So if you're really enthusiastic, fun-loving, dedicated or just out to strut you stuff to the rest of the campus community, come to the next I.S.U. meeting February 6th, from 6:30- 7:00 pm on the 3rd floor of Carnegie Hall If not, please contact Laura Calvi (Box #369/x6834) or myself, Edgar Letriz (Box #1475/374-1994)before the dealine of February 6. Modeling positions will have to be limited so please respond as soon as possible. Again, recruitment will begin immediately. Please contact us and take into consideration that modeling for the Fashion Show takes a great deal of dedication , and time in your part as well as a lot of fun and ' satisfaction.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS February 2~ 1989 <lllllt.Cllfhirnsis Founded at Union College .1877 ---- Generic Courses Unfair To Majors The College ha..s recently occupied itself with improving the 'General Education' of its students.· ay updating its ·liberal learning .requirements it has taken steps to insure that future .students will graduate having gained,· a well-rounded ed11eaton. This 'ren()vation:' willtmdoubtedly have positive effects on departing .students~ breadth of educatioit. However, the College is over-due for reconsidering the education it provides· for students in their majors. · A number .of liberal arts and social science depatllil.ents offet no upper l·evel courses <Jther than seminars. The positive· aspect of this arrangement is that non-majors have a wide selection of courses to choose from and me therefore more likely to find one of true interest to take. However, majors in these. deplUtments attest to significant' disadvantages. When no prerequisite classes are requited for a specific course, th.e professor must design the lectUre and general outline and pace_of the cowse under the assumption that the attending students have no prior knowledge 0f the: general subject. In one professor's words, \A teacher always has to teach at the lowest student's level.\ This is surely unfair to a student with s~me background knowlege of the subject. Why should a senior English <Jt:' Political Science or History, or any other major, sit through introdactory level courses for four years? Or, for that matter, why should a prl}fessor have to teach only beginning courses rather than some that emplor his or her specific area of expertise? . It is frustratmg for students to constantly he reviewing. material they are familiar wit!L And it is wasteful to have their class-time consumed by listening to an:swers to questions they have heard answered .countless times in previous courses. It is more than frustrating, however; it is restraining. This free-.for-all · system deprive~; majors in these departments of a significant depth of understanding i:n their field that stems from cumulative knowledge and the practice of thoughtful, inno'llative analysis that accompanies it. Constantly t:akb!g introductory level classes also denies these students the sophisticated class discussion that they should be involved in given their course background. Having no aclv~ced courses to take results in boredom from repitition and causes students to skip classes and take their courses less seriously. Attention and patience quickly wane when you are listening to something for the third or fourth time. Having no hierarchy of cou:n;es whatsover demes these students pride in having advanced enough to consider topics a:t a !evel that presumes prior education. At no time is their cumulative lcnow ledge of their subject called on. They seem to sit in one random coU\Se after another. Without sugg;esting that the College devise a strict hierarchy of courses, it seeirn that departments that do not already do, need to provide at least a few !IPJler 1evel coutses (ones with some prerequisit-es) each year. At the vecy least these departments should adopt a card system th.at prioritizes maj()-rs for specific courses as some other departments currently do. The mote one thinks aqout it, the more unfair one realizes this system is to majors in those departments that offer no upper level courses other tha:n seminars. Presrnnably, it is unfair to th~ professors of those departrnemts as well. Any department's prin).ary concern .should be the education it provides to its majors, not Wl;uring that all the courses it offers are opea to all. Take Notice, Student Forum ... In last weekps issue of Concordiensis, Student Forum asked for a voice in decisi«ln-making at Union. The points made in their lengthy letter proved that.. indeed, Student Forum was ignored on several occasions when tnajor decisions were made. However, there is a problem with the Student Foruni's rationalization as to why they have not been asked for input. The most obvious reasOn is that the Ad:m.inistration is not obliged to answ~r to the Student Forum. It never has been obliged in the past, and it probably never will be. The question then arises: Why has the Administration respected Student Forum in the past? Part of the blame is the changing attitude that the A~t:ration has adopted toward the student body over the past three years. rus point has been elaborated (and reiterated) in previous Concordiensis editorials. But, unlike previous editorials, the brunt of the blame is not attributed to the Administration. The Student Forum needs to accept fault. They are als<l accountable for the shrinking student body voice. Student Forum is upset because there were \never notifed\ of the social policy cli.anges. Similarly, they feel frustrated because \there were many other issuec..s that were implemented on behalf of the student body\ of which Studettt Forum was similarly not notified. They refer to their constitution to support their grievances; however, Student Forum needs to look a littlecl(}ser at the statement, \The association (Student Forum) seeks to provide extended charu:1e1..s of communication. increased areas of cooperation, an<l a greater acceptance of shared responsibility ... \ This statement infers that Student Forum exert the same amount of effort, if not more, to milintain \channels of communication.\ (It's a two-way slteet.) This ex:.cerpt places the responsibility on Student Foiupt to seek out informatio11, to keep aware of ~e issues; and to regularly ask the Administrationfcr new developments. Like any goodjoutnalist, Student Forum represeo~tives need to do some footwork to keep abreast of the issues. If what Student Forum Wa:rits.is to be spoon-fed infonnation, they are extre.tr1ely mistaken. The passive. attiL11de tlrat Student Forum has espoused since the representatives took office in September must be shed in order for the Student Forum to operate as it wants to. Stop complaining and start initiating infomation channels. This is the first step to making your presences knov.'ll. LETTERS • Union Must Pay To Fuel SPAA. Rec}rcling Effort - ... . -. . - - - .. . . - . . • .. - - -.- _, I. - . • ~ To the Editors: In last week's issue of Concordiensis, Kevin Gardner outlined the importance .of recycling, and discussed SPAA's choice to support r.ecycling ·efforts at 1 Union and focus on environmental efforts, ··in general, during winter term. This ch-oice is highly cornmendablei certainly, Union will directly \benefit from SPAA's commitment. I dare say, Union benefits from any volunteer effort, esp-ecially where environmental rocycling is concerned; h0wever, as· ' 1 eath effort eventually fades~\ as Kevin suggests, the benefits go, as well. Volunteers are a dying breed. Union must off¢r to absorb SPAA's programs for recycling.· into the system, if they· are to last past wjnter term: Pay Stlldents willing. to ·collect the otherwise wasted paper from campus buildings •. These students are proViding a service as important. if not mote impGrtant, than addressing envelopes in Lamont Rouse or fiiping burgers. -- - It is a relief knowing, thanks to SP AA, that not all students need. to b.e motivated by a checkbook. On the other .hand. Union is realistic enough. t~ accept\wh;;tt needs to be done ,IP ·ensure Its uninte:rrupet environmental comrnitinent. . . • • • - \l. . . · :Respectfully, Anne Carl ·~s Committee ~Evaluates Union'.s Success As Coed Institution To the Editors: What are your thoughts abut coeducation at Union? For· most of our history, we were an all-male institution. The first women were admitted in 1970. Is coeducation a success? Are women as comfortable here as men? Does the College meet women's educational and social needs as well as it meets men's? Is the College doing all that it sbonld to be truly coeducational? Our committe.e has been . asked to·ev&luate coeduc!ltion at Un.ion · as the College approaches its bicentenni,al. We have already gathered a ·good deal of information her~ and on ether campuses about the issues facing formerly ~1-male institutions like Unicn. We would now like to invite anyone-- administrators, faculty, staff or students-- wP,o is interested in these issues to contact us. Give us your views! Please call or write any one of us. Fay E. Dudden,. . History Depar.t:tnent, X6220 on behalf of the committee on Coeducation: Julius: Batbanel Mathematics. Department, X6524 Faye Dudd;en History Department, X6220 DougK.lefu Economics Department, X6056 . Ruth Stevenson . English Department, X6206 Joanne Tobiessen Career Development Ctr., X6176 The Union College. Phi Beta lappa Chapter would like to announce that modest financial help is available to students for their scholarly ~research. Th~ support is given on the basis of ne;ed to Q.efr~y certai:p costs· necessary for ca.rryirig ·out-the research~· ·, ·· · The Chapter can fund about ten indiVidual proJects to a ma.Ximum of $50.00 each. Please co.nt~ct Professor Kellenter (Modern Languages, HU 211) and submit a brief written request. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY RE,FLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD . ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE _SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PREOE~DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED.

CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 Olllltfllrbirttsis Founded at Union College 1877 ---- Generic Courses Unfair To Majors The College has :receatly occupied itself with improving the 'General Education' of its students. By updating its liberalleaming requirements it has taken steps to insure that future students will graduate having gained . a well-rounded educaton. This 'renovation' will undoubtedly have positive effects on departing students' breadth of educatio:n. However, the Cohl.ege is over-due for reconsidering the education it provides for students in. their majors. A number of liberal arts and social science departments offer no upper level courses other than seminars. The positive aspect of this arrangement is that non-majors have a wide selection of courses to choose from and are therefore more likely to find <me of true interest to take. However, majors in these departments attest to significant disadvantages. When no prerequisite classes are required for a specific course, the professor must design the lecture and general outline and pace of the course under the assumption that the attending students have no prior knowledge of the general subject. In one professor's words, \A teacher always has to teach at the lowest student's level.\ This is surely unfair to a student with some background know lege of the subject. Why should a senior English or Political Science or History, or any other major, sit through introductory level courses for four years? Or, for that matter, why should a professor have to teach only beginning courses rather than some that employ his or her specific area of expertise? It is frustrating for students to constantly be reviewing material they are familiar with. And it is wasteful to have their class-time consumed by listening to answers to questions they have heard answered countless times in previous courses. It is more than frustrating, however, it is restraining. This free-for-all system deprives majors in these departments of a significant depth of understanding in their field that stems from cumulative knowledge and the practice of thoughtful, innovative analysis that accompanies it. Constantly taking intr<lductory level classes also denies these students the sophisticated class discussion that they should be involved in given their course background. Having no advanced courses to take results in boredom from repitition and causes students to skip classes and take their c<Jurses less seriously. Attention and patience quickly wane when you are listening to something for the third or fourth time. Having no hierarchy of courses whatsover denies these students pride in having advanced enough to consider topics at a level that presumes prior education. At no time is their cumulative knowledge of their subject called on. They seem to sit in one random course after another. Without suggesting that the College devise a strict hierarchy of courses, it seems that departments that do not already do, need to provide at least a few upper level courses (ones with some prerequisites) each year. At the very least these departments should adopt a card system that prioritizes majors for specific courses as some other departments currently do. The more one thinks about it, the more unfair one realizes this system is to majors in those departments that offer no upper level courses other than seminars. Presumably, it is unfair to the professors of those departments as well. Any department's prin:).ary concern should be the education it provides to its majors, not insurinJ,l that all the courses it offers are open to all. Take Notice, Student Forum ... In last week's issue of Concordiensis, Student Forum asked for a. voice in decision-making at Union. The points made in their lengthy letter proved that, mdeed, Student Forum was ignored on several occasions when major decisions were made. However, there is a problem with the Student Forum's rationalization as to why they have n()t been asked for input. The most obvious reason is that the Administration is not obliged to an.swer to the Student Forum. It never has been obliged in the past, and it probably never will be. The question then arises: Why has the Administration respected Student Forum in the past? Part of the blame is the changing attitude that the Administration has adopted toward the student body over the past three years. This point has been elaborated (and reiterated) in previous Concordiensis editorials. But, unlike previous editorials, the brunt of the blame is not attributed to the Administration. The Student Forum needs to accept fault. They are also accountable for the shrinking student body voice. Student Forum is upset because there were \never notifed\ of the social policy changes. Sirrtilarly, they feel frustrated because \there were many other issues that were implemented on behalf of the student body\ of which Student Forum was similarly not notified. They refer to their constitution to support their grievances; however, Student Forum needs to look a little closer at the statement, \The association (Student Forum) seeks to provide extended chan:oels of communication, increased areas of cooperation, and a greater acceptance of shared responsibility ... \ This statement infers that Student Forum exert the same amount of effort, if not more, to maintain \channels of communication.\ (It's a two-way street.) This excerpt places the responsibility on Student Forum to seek out information, to keep aware of the issues, and to regularly ask the Administration for new developments. Like any good journalist, Student Forum representatives need to do some footwork to keep abreast of the issues. If what Student Forum wants is to be spoon-fed information, they are extremely mistaken. The passive attitude that Student Forum has espoused since the representatives took office in September must be shed in order for the Student Forum to operate as it wants to. Stop complaining and start initiating information channels. This is the first step to making your presences known. LETTERS • Union Must Pay To Fuel SP AA Recycling Effort To the Editors: In last week's issue of Concerdiensis, Kevin Gantner outlined the importance of recycling, and discussed SPAA's choice to support recycling efforts at Union and focus on environmental efforts, -in general, during winter term. This choice is highly commendable; certainly, Union will directly benefit from SPAA's commitmeRt. I dare say, U11ien benefits .from any volunteer effort, especially where environmental :tecycling is concerned; however, as \each effort eventually fa.des,\ as Kevin suggests, the benefits go, as wel:l. Volunteers are a dyingbreed. Union must .offer to absorb SPAA.~s programs for recycling iAto fue system, if they are to last pa.st winter term: Pay students willing to collect the otherwise wasted paper from campus buildings. These students are providing a service as important, if Jlot more important, than addressing envelopes in Lament House or fliping burgers. It is a relief kn()wing, thanks to SP AA, that not all students need to be motivated by a checkbook. On the (i)ther hand, Union is realistic enough to accept what needs tobe done to ensure its uninterruped environmental cornm1tment. :Respectfully, Allne Carl '88 Committee Evaluates Union's Success As Coed Institution To the Editors: What are your thoughts abut coeducation at Union? For most of our history, we were an all-male institution. The first women were admitted in 1970. Is coeducation a success? Are women as comfortable here as men? Does the College meet women's educational and social needs as well as it meets men's? Is the College doing all that it should to be truly coeducational? Our committee has been asked t() evaluate coeducation at Union as the College approaches its bicentennial. We have a!J!eady gatheFed a good deal of information here and on other campuses about the issues facing formerly all-male instituti()ns like U11ion. We would now like to invite any one-- administrators, faculty, staff or students-- who is inteFested in these issues to contact us. Give us your . 1 views. Please call or write any one of us. Fay E. Dudden, History DepartmeJJt, X6220 on behalf of the C()rnmittee on coeducation: Julius Barbanel Mathematics Department, X6524 FayeDudden History Department, X6220 Doug Klein Economics Department, X6056 Ruth Stevenson English Department, X6206 Joanne Tobiessen Career Development Ctr., X6176 The Union College Phi Beta Kappa Chapter would like to announce that modest financial help is available to students for their scholarly research. The support is given on the basis of need to defray certain costs necessary for carrying out the research. The Chapter can fund about ten individual projects to a maXimum of $50.00 each. Please contact Professor Kellenter (Modem Languages, HU 211) and submit a brief written request. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT TliE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEE;DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS W~LLNOT BE ACCEPTED.

- CONCORDIENSJS Febr:uary 2, 1989 Page 13 ' ' · · · FRIDAY FEB. 3RD 9:00PM Pf\RTY OLD CHAPEL ORGANIZED BY THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS FREE FOOD, DRINKS, MUSIC, FUN. FANCY DRESS (FORMAL, SEMI.,FORMAL; CASUAL, EVEN CRAZY IF YOU DARE!!) ,/ . INTERNATIONAL FEATURES -MARDI GRAS PAilTY For ~he vt=Jry first time on this. campus, we thollgflt that all dubs should join tcigether to organize a huge party .. Americam;, Mexicans, Latin Americans, Europeans, Chinese, Soviets and others will have the opportunity to get. together and party: this Friday February 3rd, in Old Chapel.from 9:00 to 3:30 am for an international Mardi,Gras. · - a1ues Alley, a band thatyou may be familiar VJith (they: played at K.A. and Sig Phil will be featured. \they II have you \d~ncing like crazy' I Experien~e a uniqu~ international fratem~y,. ·~ true brotherhood of nations, a Union of faces. Open your minds, come and joih us. Make H a. great time! · . This spectacular event is ~P<lnsored by ISU, BIAS, French Club, German Club, Spanish Clut?. Deha Gamma. . LAONCHYOOR ' . CAREER IN LONDON With An·. lnternati·onallnternshi·P· .. Be a partof an exciting·wark·study program for Juniors,· seniors and graduate stude.nts. t:. For l5·unforg.ettable ~eeks, you'lllive in beautiful Kensin.gton in central London. Yo.u'U begln with full-time study at fully accredited Richmond 'College. Then, . you'll build v~luable job skills and gain \ international experi-ence working in such desirable fields as business, advertising, politics, law. and journalism. For more information about a semester that could lal)nch your career, fill out and, mail the coupon below.· Am,erican l_nstitute For Foreig,n Study® 102 Greenwich Ave.,Greenwich, CT 06830 1-·800-727 -AIFS - . YES, I'm interested in launching my career in London by taking part in Rich'mond CoHeg.e' s Internationa,l Internship Program. Name=-~------~---------..,..-------~­ Address: ---~-~---~----------_,....--­ City: __ _,....__,___---.----- State:~~~- ZIP: ~-----------~-- Phone: ~----------------------...----~------------ uc v A L E N ' I ·N E' 5 D A y c A N D y G R A M 5 SPONSORED BY $1 each on sale at the College Center Feb. 2 through Valentine's Day ·Proceeds will go to a local Foundation for the Blind

CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1!)89 Page 13 FRIDAY FEB. 3RD 9:00PM PARTY OLD CHAPEL ORGANIZED BY THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS FREE FOOD, DRINKS, MUSIC, FUN. FANCY DRESS (FORMAL, SEMI-FORMAL, CASUAL, EVEN CRAZY IF YOU DARE!!) INTERNATIONAL FEATURES -MARDI GRAS PARTY For the very first time on this campus, we thought that all clubs should join together to organize a huge party. Americans, M~xi cans, Latin Americans, Europeans, Chinese, Soviets and others will have the . opportunity to get together and party this Friday February 3rd, in Old Chapel from 9:00 to 3:30am for an international Manti-Gras. Blues Alley, a band that you may be familiar with (they played at K.A. and Sig Phi) will be featured. They'll have you 'danci11g like crazy\! Experience a unique international fraternity, a true brotherhood of nations, a Union of faces. Open your minds, come and join us. Make~ a great time! This spectacular event is sponsored by ISU, BLAS, French Club, German Club, Spanish Club, Detta Gamma. LAUNCH YOUR CAREER IN LONDON With An International Internship. Be a part of an exciting work-study program for juniors, seniors and graduate students. D For 15 unforgettable weeks, you'll live in beautiful Kensington in central London. You'll begin with full-time study at fully accredited Richmond College. Then, you'll build valuable job skills and gain international experience working in such desirable fields as business, advertising, politics, law and journalism. For more information about a semester that could launch your career, fill out and mail the coupon below. American Institute For Foreign Study® 102 Greenwich Ave.,Greenwich, CT 06830 1-800-727 -AIFS YES, I'm interested in launching my career in London by taking part in Richmond College's International Internship Program. Name: __________________________________________________ __ Address: _______________________ _ City: _______ State: ___ _ ZIP: _______ _ Phone: ________________________________ _ uc v c A l A E N N D y T I G N R E' A s M s D A y SPONSORED BY $1 each on sale at the College Center Feb. 2 through Valentine's Day Proceeds will go to a local Foundation for the Blind

. Page 14 CONCORDlENSJS Fe-bruary 2, 1.989 SCIEN'CE & TECHNOL-OGY The Biology Of AIDS Problern of the Week Duri11g one~ of Professor N~wton·s lect1;1res this week, each of • · the five students fell.asleep e:xactly t'wice. For each ~pair of· . ' stud~nts, there was st>me- :moment when b1>th wer' sleeping simultaneously. Pr-ove tl:ta:t at some moment, so;ne three of · tbe students were sle~pirtl! simultaneously. By (jERLINDE GUKELBERGER In the first part of this article we learned how AIDS is caused. What kind of therapies are available at the present time? There is an improvement in the treaunent of AIDS patients, though retroviruses ct>nfronted researchers from the beginning with problems: 1) the ability of mutations to alter the composition of their coat and the gp120 protein, 2) the HIV virus hides in the host cell and the virus genes ate incorWiated in the genes of the host, 3) no animal model for .the disease is available as is -the case for other human viral diseases. Only similarly caused-diseases, · for example by the SIVmac retrovirus, can, whh re.- strictions, be used as a model to study the way the HIV-virus infects cells. Chimpanzees can be infected with the HIV -virus but, like most animals, they apparently show no sign of illness. How does a vaccine work? We know that the immune system reacts against sub- stances foreign to the body. (An antigen is any molecule that is recognized by a receptor on a lympho~yte or by an antibody capable of binding to this particular foreign sub- stance. The immune system makes antibodies to almost all sustances.) After the first infection the cell has a kind of immunological memcry of the antigen. Vaccines make use of this fact. lt introdnces the antigen in a harmless form (immunogen). The body alarms its immune system tO fight off this antigen without posing any threat of disease. Not the whole antigen is necessary for recognition but only a small piece. After this immune response, the body is able to remember th-e antigen. When there is a real harmful virus the antigen is well- known to the immune system. The crucial point is that the AIDS virus destroys the T cells which are very important for the immune system and also for the vaccines. A possible vaccine might mimic certain antigenic parts of the gp120 pi'otein on the virus surface. This wonld induce a sufficient immune resp011se and also prevent the virus from invading the central nervous system. Once the virus has invaded the nervous system it is no longer vulnerable t() immune response. I already mentioned that no analogue animal disease is available; only similarly acting retroviruses are loiown., Consequently. there is ·only one possibility to. test the efficiency of art AIDS vaccine: they have to be injected in- volunteers! The whole test procedure includes .several phases of trials, for the first .phase 50·100 high-risk people are require-d. for the last probably thousands. Researchers have made some progress in vaccine develop- ment, but they don't expect a vaccine before the end of the century. Besides the possibility of vaccines as a cure there are more ·or les'S successful therapies. To say it clearly: Up to now there is 110 cure against AIDS .. If scientists try to find a therapeutic age~t they have to think of the virus- structure and the way the virus causes an infection. Nevertheless. the agent has to selectively kilJ the virus or to stop the production of new virus generations while damaging the cells as little as possible. The agent might intervene during the binding of the virus -to a cell in the way that 1} it is a toxin -- linked antibody to a critical part of the virus protein gp120 thereby destroying the ability to bind to CD4; 2) an antibody to CD4; 3) . an antibody to neutralize the -minion q[oUtge · jfacultp Q.tolloquium ROBERT M. OLBERG Associate Professor Of Biological Sciences EAVESDROPPING O·N INSECT BRAINS Thursday, February 16th, at 4:30 PM Coilege Center Auditorium Coffee & Tea at 4:00PM · ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND function of gp41 to prevent the fusion of the virus membrane and the cell membrane. Another way would be to find a substance- that inhibits the teverse-transcriptase and disturbs the reversion process. Quite recently scientists focused their interest especially Congratulatic.>ns to ~ene-~ik\t}llunschi. who won last week's :ten dollar p,rize, and to Laszlo :Boroczky. who also submitted . ·il\. co:\rect solution. on substances belonging to the 1 Solutiorts should be su:bmi.tted to Lois Bing in the dideo~ynucleoside fam-ily. One I. Mathe:rnatics Depet.rtmemt Office· ~tween the hours of 9a.m.; · of these tested drugs is AZT : · 11a.m. and 2.p.m. - 4p .. m ... Monday· through ·Friday. The first (=azidothymidine or zido- ·correct solution submit-ted wm receive the wtfekly Q10 •prize: vlidine). It has been . Correct solutions wUl :be po&.ted. .on the bulletin bQardoutside demonsttated that both the · Bailey 106. · · survival period and the quality of life for AIDS patients can be improved by AZT. Once this .agent is in the cell it will be transformed in its , phos ... phorylated (addition of a phqsphor group) active form by- tJell enzymes. This fonn resembles -a cell substance called thymidine (it is. a nucleoside) which is one of the building blocks of DNA. Normally thymidine binds to a side · of the virus reverse transcriptase during production of the virus DNA If the active AZT form is present, there will be a competition between both substances because AZT binds to the same side. AZT terminates the virus DNA chain in case it is incorporated · in the growing chain instead of thymidine. AZT lacks rufOH- group that is necessary to form and'· until now it is not kllow-n .. whether the :reverse trans- criptase is altered;, by .Stich -a ·modification or not. In case :the function. is altered AZT will be effectless. Furthermore AZT can be toxic. if people take it over a.·i<>ng time and nor.Jl!dly that is . necessary duq11j an AIDS therapy. It C3ll a!u.Se anemia {decrease in red l>locq cells) and a low nwn!Jer of white blood cells. More()ver il is not elucida~d in which w.ay AZT effects other ·en:zymes in. ,the body ·because it resembles tike all other members cf the dideoxynucleoside family im- portant cellular chem.icals. e Scientists made experiments with another dideoxynuclroside called ddc. On ·one side d.dc reduces the amount ·()f the production of new virus generations,which are a.ole to in~ect iilereasingly mo:te booy cells. But on the otber.side it causes in some patie-nts- a painful disorder of peri:phetal · sensory .and motor _11exve$ (neuropathy), A.. solution would ·be to alternate the two drugs- because the si(.le effects gradually .subsided after the· ·patients stopped taking AZ-T or ddc. 'The side _:effects' oLthese , drugs, are awful and .probably. there won't be: a drug against. · AIDS withoutany side effects; - AIDS is nof a minor -illness . but a life-threatening one. lfwe · think of the short time· ·from AIDS · discovery until now there , is some . hope that researchers will successfully design - an effective- agent, · perhaps a cl.l!e, a-gainst AIDS with less· side-effects. . - Scientists assume that one possibility might be a muhiple-dr.ug·therapy that· means a combintion of several drugs whereby each drug attacks another part or activity of HIV. They also concluded that a small. well-defined protein-segment may be-a more effec~ve ·vaccine 'than a large One. Contln.ued Oil page 15 a bond with the next link. Thymidine owns this group. Therefore AZT is the last link in the chain with the-result that the virus DNA cannot produce in the functioning form. That · sounds as if it is so easy to find a drug against AIDS. But there are some big difficulties to overcome. The HlV-virus has a high rate of mutation, that means it is able to change the comppsition of virus,parts, DO YOU NEED KELP WITH .BIO 16 ·oR 18? COME TO 810 BACK UP Every Tuas:day' !'light s:oo .. to~oo. pm In the Ryon Room (across from Biology Office) UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL S-CIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT KATHLEEN KINNALLY DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY SUNY ALBANY \PATCH CLAMP STUDIES Of MITOCHflNDRIAL MEHSRAtlES\ _WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 8, 1989 4:40P.M. SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 I .. REFRESHMENTS 4:30 DR. KINNALLY IS A CANDIDATE FOR A FACUt1Y POSITION lN THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT Positi-ons Available Statistics Lab Consultant Students interested in working as consultants in the Social s·ciences Statisti~s Lab during ·- Spring term and next year should see Prof. Klein in Social . '· Sciences 109, or call before Friday, F~bruary 10. Preference will be . given . to sophon1ore social, science majors who will _have completed a statistics or social science ; methods course by the end of this year. ' I . .1

I l: I 'i · CONCOR:DJENSI.S .Ji'ebruury 2, 1989 Page 15 ·. .SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY . . fossils Aid In Unders~anding ·w·orld Evolutio.n By KEVIN GARDNER A bird that stood ten· to .twelve feet tall, ran faster than a horse, had a bead longer than that of a horse, and used its massive, hooked beak to tear . apart the prey it ~had killed with .its huge clawed feet. Very appropriat~ly, this carnivorous bird is called the \terror bird''. The terror bird fonnally teferted to as the Titanis, has .much more to offer to .man than simply something. to marvel · about. Though it is fascinating to ponder, the terror bird has a unique quality that sets it apart from the concept of time travel or that ever-present, ;'Where does the· universe end, yet, how can it not end?\ (yVow.) The terror bird plays a vital role in determining when and in what manner the continents shifted, and, along with other fossils, helps detennine the evolution of life · on our continent as we11 as on South America, Antarctica, and Austn1lia. It was .46 million years ago and all was sunny and warm on Antarctica. One day, Wednesday, I think it was, S. America and Antarctica met. That is 1 a land bridge was formed between the two continents, on Wednesday. The U/C IBM User Group • Presents .. . SPEAKER Peter Prosper :: • :: • ~ 1 ~ , , ! ; ,Pioles~a,r ~~ ~~nomics . __ :_ . 'WordPerfect v5.0' EVERYONE IS WELCOME;! pt()()f.of this rendezvous: is in the :lbssils. When tbe land bric::1~e formed, many .species that .had previously only occured in Antarctica suddenly appe~ed in S. America, and. species that up to this time had Ol!ly occw:ed in S. ·America, s·u.ddenly a.pjJe-ared in Allta:rCtica. Slnc:e. Antarctica is buried under ice. its precise role in the evoltiti.rm of species is no-t yet . thorClghly uQdersto~od.. For example, experts are n()t sure wtiether certain · sp•ecies. originated in Antwctica m;. wltether Antarctica just spread spec;.ies from Australia to Solltll America. · ' It :is known, however, that 40 li1illion years ago animals, such · as ,. Titants·;· ·were colltiaent-hopping. The terror bird., after jumping from Antarctica to So. America, thell proceeded to travel north to Pi()rida · when Nortll and S()utlt America joined about th:ree million years ago. Reir:iains of the terror bird have been found at four different sites in Florida alone. The joining of ·North. and Soll.tll America is a fairly wen~ uolierstood interchange~ After tlte terror bird took up residence ill S<l. America. the other Agenda: Organizational Issues carnivores in residence eventually became extinct~ which is testimony to the ferociousness of the Titanis. Fossils show that many species arrived simultaneously in North America about 2.5 million years ago, including armadillos, ground sloths, porcupines, and, ofcourse~ the terror bird. A variety .of species also appeared. ort the continent of South America 2.5 million years ago, including skunks, horses, dogs, hears, and deer. With the ability to date fossils, a complete assessment of the jqining of the continents is possible. The spreading of species with time, the rate of evolution of differellt species, the origination of species, and . too rate< of'extinctiori ofspeeies can be understood and documented. Finding the terror bird in Antarctica was indeed a giant step for soi~ntists, for ·the bird had already been discovered in North and South America,. and the bird could not fly or swim. The Titanis strengthens what is already known about tlle . joining of the Americas, but its discovery in Antarctica spreads a whole new canvas in devefoping a picture of the worldwide evolution of life. . Speaker presentation ·;- ... - 4 ..;OyestiQns/An~o.,y~r~ 1 . -· . . .. ' , . ' ' ~electio!l of Upcoming 'Speakers ·Date: Time: Place: February 7th ].1:30am to i2:30pm CC4.Cl9 - u rHJ ~ !Pll! o/J~ fJDm <a>·~ rr~ J\ a'A Ow ' : ~· QJJ ~ IT» lE ~ CG ~A UJJ l1JJ A 1f ff ~(r: n. rt ~ ce CE IE!!» u cc ~ 1f o (Q) N - Summer 1989 Student Research Opportunities \ A unique opportunity to gain researdt experience ':Yith a faculty mentor and work with students from other colleges and univer·sities at one of the following i11stitutions: • Barnard Collett • Rilmiltou College • Colgate Univet·s.ity • Manhattan College • Cornell University • Sai!lt Lawrence University • Union College 10 WEEK SUMMEH PnOGRAM . $2;000.00 STIPEND l:)LUS $500.00 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXPENSES r.·oR AN Ai>l•LICATION()R F()R FUHTlllm I>'I~TAILS, CON'i'ACT YOUR INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENT A Tl VE: D~N 'tiEINER - 370-6233 Or call CO:RNELL UNJ.VERSITY 607-255·2710 !Biology Of AIDS ... Continued from page 14 . receivecl the drug for 50 days. Some time ago, as already RsCD4 appears to reduce the mentioned, scientists from amoullt(Jf virus in the infected · Harvard Medical School and animal bone marrow and Biogen, Inc., . of Cambridge immune cells. SIVmac is not found a new drug called only similar to the HIV-virus Receptine. Receptine is the in its clestructive effects on the name for \recombinant soluble immu11e system but also in the CD4\ (rsCD4). It mimics the way it gains entry to cells via appearance of the cell's CD4 the CD4 molecule and can be molecule. Thereby it dFaws used to find possible t:herapies attention away from the ta.I'get against it. There is always ceHs. After binding to the hope btlt it takes time. In the rsCD4 molecule, the AIDS meantime we have to cope virus is rio longer able to infect with rhe involved social healthy cells. The experiments problems. AIDS affec1s all were performed at the New people! England Regional Primate Era.ttum: Last week's Research Center. Four rhesus a:rticle 'The Biology of monkeys were infected with the AIDS\ read \Sleeping simian immunodeficiency virus genes are lW1 awake.\ It of macaques (SIVmac). The should· have read .J9Jll;in~~t~.m'?Hf~YJ ~l!,dJV(O . _\S~eepiJ1g. genes are ll.1U1::. healthy, non-infected ffi()nk.eys awakt. 11 Look for Circ[e 'l(s Va_lentine Flower Sale February 1 ~ 11 10:00 - 6:00pm in West and the College Center DISKS Beat the bookstore! 3.5 incll disks onl)' $2.00 CS Crisis Center Steinn1etz 227 Association for Computing l\11achinery liiluuffil!kOuu~ @i§®lYlil i¥QlliT©iiu®rsuffil@ ® IM1 n ©If@©@ IJiji} rP !Yl R® II' 11 ij'@ (/ijj) u liD@ ©®U~®@@ @JC?>®Ik®U®!f®'f? Please Plan ahead and «tu the following: • Obtain copies of the handouts addressing pcrsoaal computer systems available at Union. Copies of these ·handouts are available: at the College Bookstore aod Computer Services.· ; Talk to faculty in your major field of study . . • Make a list of the soft::Varc packages you would like to usc. Investigate hardware tbat the listed softwar~ packages are' available on. • Visit the IBM and Macintosh Labs in Steinmetz Halt. Use these computers, and get feedback from other students who are using thcD!. • Investigate the Apple Studcat Loan-to-Own Program. Information \is available 011 this program at the College Bookstore and Com~uter Services, • Stop by the Office of Compu:tcr Services. Talk to the student consultants there, and to the User Services Staff. • Talk to .friends who OWll pimona.l computers. Once you've decided to make a purchase: • Complete the order form and make an appoQitm.cllt with the College Bookstore to place ·yollr order. • Allow Jluffit:ient shipping tine - some popular IIJ.(}dcls take 10 weeks . • Allow sufficient set-up time and training time . · • Register for one 'of Computer Services Seminars . Note that: ... • Purchas~s of personal cotnl>lltcr equipment from tbe Gollege Bookstore are subject 1o a shipping and haD.dling fee. I rJ~~~iijFi[i]i]~[i'7:,ff=7t':TIW1G:)cF;\·.r3.;,,~,· :~· ... = .. ;;; .. ;;;:: .. ~·. :•.=.~ ... 7:::: .. ~-~·. ·~-;'·~,';~. ~·'.~:•<·=·~ .. :·.;:;,,=:. =. =. =. =.=. =========41 · . • One~ an order is pl!1Ced, it is final. RNARD COLtEGE .. COLGATI UNiVERSlT'l' .. CORNELL UNIVERSITY some restrictions ar~ in .place with respect tCJ method of payment Please MILTON toLLEGt:M~NI-:IMTAN COLLEGE..s'T. LA~RENCE UNIVERSin' .. UNION COlLEGE lo.vestigate these details at !he (:ollege Boolcstorc' \':':·':~·/ · ... ,, .. ,.:,.::: •. :· · . · · . :~Nf · · · '·

· Page l& CONCORDIENSIS Februar' 2, 1989 _ FOR SALE TOV'OT A TtJ.RCELL · 3 Door Hatchback, Excellent Condition! $1 ,995 or best of1er · u~I·N·ON· COL.LEGE s~p:EAIE.RS :FORU!·M P;RESENTS THE. COMDEY Of ·· . . '' .- . ., .... . . . . ' - - CALL 346·8652 POLLY MIKE'S .MERCEDES SERVICE, INC~ MICHAEL W. CYDYLO 349 A.nthi>ny Street (518} 377~~265 (24Hr. Towing· 374-10&7!) Schenectady, NY C': Demereski f?Taluo-& fF!orab (518) 374-4000 \Express it with Flowers\ 96 Jay Street NATURESCAPE DESIGNS iCor. of Jay & Liberty St.J SChenectady, N.Y. 12305 lwo .yruce /'ofte:J' WHEEL~THROWN STONEWARE 158 JAY STREET • SCHENECTADY. NY 12305 (5!8) 39S-5{)1.1 PAUL'S N.Y. PIZZERIA Pi:Zz:a, footlong subs, calzones .• $1.00 off B cut & 12 cut with toppings for Union students and faculty only 823 MCCLELLAN STREET, SCHENECTADY, NY 12304 382.;8210- ASK ABOUT FREE :DEliVER'( Montego Bay, Jamaica ..•... From $399 ·Negril, J-amaica ........•.•..•... From $429 Acapulco and Ca ncun ..•... From $429 Daytona Beach •. no ............... From $159 For information and reservations: 21:3· East Seneca St., ltnac:a, NV 11185() (607)272-6964 ' CAROL ·LEIFER WINTERFEST '89 \Carol Leifer is leading a double life. She:•s really JayLeno ina dress ... maybe this Leifer/Leno .identity is just a cover for another of America' super comedia11s\ .:_March 1988 Sat., Feb. ll 8 pm Memorial Chapel Tickets $2.00 at C.C. Info Booth On Sale Feb. 8th RESERVE OFI'I£ERS' TRAINING CORPS YOUR fiRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS TIE ONE YOIJ COULD TAKE THIS S1JMMER. At Army ROTC Camp <;hallenge, you'U learn what it takes-to succeed- in college and in 1ife. You'll build -self-confidenc& and develop your leadership potential. Pb,lS you can also qualify to earn· an Army Officer's commission when you graduate. Anny ROTC Camp Challenge. It may be. just what you need to reach the top. ADIYROT£ THE SMAI11SI·'COUEGE COUliSE YOU CAN TIKE. Conta6t Captafn John Qualls 783-2477 ·-

· Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS. F eb.ruary 2, . 1989 FOR SALE TOYOTA TURCELL 3 Door Hatchback, Excellent Condition! $1 ,995 or best ofte,r UINON COLL,EGE SPEAKERS FORU'M PRE,S,ENTS THE COMD,EY OF CALL 346-8652 POLLY MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE, INC. 349 AnthoJ:ty Street MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (518) 377-2268 (24 Hr. \Towing· 374-1067) Scher:~ectady, NY C. Demereski !?Talvo-J:- 8Tfo.rta (518) 374-4000 \Express it with Flowers\ 96 Jay Street NATURESCAPE DESIGNS (Cor o!Jay &: Liberty St.) Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 I:IJio Sjlruce_Foit:J WHEEL-THROWN STONEVvARE 158 JAY STREET • SCHENECTADY. ~y 12305 i518J 3935011 PAUL'S N.Y. PIZZERIA Pizza, footlong subs, calzones, $1.00 off 8 cut & 12 cut with toppings for Union students and faculty only 823 MCClELlAN STREET, SCHENECTADY, NY 12304 3B2-8210 -ASK ABOUT FREE DELIVERY Montego Bay. Jamaica ...... From $399 Negri I, Jamaica ................. From $429 Acapu leo and Cancun ...... From $429 Daytona Beach .................. From $159 For information and reservations: DENNIS or RUSSEL at 432-5718 213 East Seneca St., Ithaca, NV 14850 (607)272-6964 CAROL LEIFER WINTERFEST '89 \Carol Leifer is leading a double life. She's really Jay Leno in a dress ... maybe this Leifer/Leno identity is just a cover for another of America' super comedians\ -March 1988 Sat., Feb. 11 8 pm Memorial Chapel Tickets $2.00 at C.C. Info Booth On Sale Feb. 8th 1 111111 RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS ·::::::::::: ·:-:·:·:·:·: lt~f :::::::::::: ·.·.· .. ·.·.: ·.·.·.·.·• ~~~~~~~~~~~ ::::::::::: ·.•.·.·.·.· lll 1 ii::i ~~j~~t~~ ........ ·.·. :~:~:~:~:~: ttl~\ :~~~~~~~~~~~ Jtt: ·:::::;:;:;: tl~~~I: ·······•··· ~~~~~~~;~~~· :::::::::::· ::::::::::: :::::::::::: :·:·:·:·:·:· Iiili ..... ·.•.·. . ·.·.·•····· II II YOUR FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS THE ONE YOIJ COULD TAKE THIS SUMMER. At .Army ROTC Camp Challenge, you'll learn what it takes to succeed- in college and in life. You'll build self-confidence and develop your leadership potential. Plus you can also qualify to earn an .Army Officer's commission when you graduate. Army ROTC Camp Challenge. It may be just what you need to reach the top . ARMY ROTC THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. Contact Captain John Qualls 783-2477 I :::::::::::: ·······•···· :::::::::::: ::::::::::: ~li~~~~ll ::::::::::: I ~ ...... . ~\~~l~il~

CONCORDlENSIS. February 2, 1989 Page 17 UniOn's T oastie .0' s By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor \Who are .they?\ a misty- , eyed freshman breathlessly . asked her roommate. \The ToastieO's,rr her friend whispered while continuing to wave, hoping the bassist would coine play near her. \I beard he · played with Clap ton,\· a rather tall boy said,, p()inting to the guitarist busy fixitrg a broken string. I had to laugh. These were tbe same boys I've spent the last four years with? Suddenly transformed into STARS?! Rich Engdahl (bassist), Jerry Snover (guitarist), Jeff Winter (guitarist and vocals) and Gary Pastizzo {drummer) comprise the Toastie O's,. Union's latest sound sensatio.n. Saturday night performing to a packed Sigma Phi the band established themselves as the 1989 'IN' band: roll over, Net Weight. \'I can't find a book on bow to be a Rock and Roll star,\ an always prepared Rich.Engdahl (bassist and founder of the Os) confided · to me · before .Saturday's. show. I was a bit .sllrpr:ised by his request lmnwing, as I was his downstairs neighbor freshman )'eM, bis humble, oh so bumble, musiCal beginning. . Uilhip to the magnetism of the 0,.s,. I still sa:w him as just Rich,. soccer player . ex.traordinare. Later,. in a brief iruerview during the band's ()Oly break (in fonr hours .of 1Jl~ying) he revealed, \I'm an exhibitionist ... a potpourri of :flesh.'; ~ Jerry, forgetting to be the proper cryptic rock star, stated .simply \we're making people dance.\ Excited by the caiJtivated, thirsty audience. he babbled ,;they're even dancing ou:tside on the porch! Imagine a car driving by wondering why people are freezing otitside, it's because they'~e dancing to US!\ 1'he 'US' includes Jeff Winter~ an '88 graduate and staple of Union's music scene. 'This 'old' working man's se4uctively hoarse voice (he said it was a cold) which ~agaged groupies and captured rnbre than a few new hearts An · Exciting Note · On Saturday evening, May 13, a terrific concert is scheduled tO present the Union College Chamber Orchestra and Choir and three conductors! The program is full of exciting rnnsic. Selections include: The \Egmont Overture\ by Beethoven, \Mother Goose Suite\ by Ravel, Borodin's· '~Polovetsian Dances,'' a solo· selection featuring a member of the Union College Choir, anc[ Eeethoven's \Choral Fantasy\ for piano, chorus, and orchestra. The program is particularly interesting because it features our very owa concertmaster, Ed ,Lin, as con due tor of the \Egmont Overture,\. Al.§.Q_, the Ravel piece is being specially orchestrated for as by students ia. Prof. Tann's Arts 144 class. If you are interested in participating in .this great event, stop by Memorial Chapel at 7:00 prn tonight, or c.all Pr.of. Tann at xti566 •.. especially if you play trombone, tuba,. harp, or any string i)lstmment. Hope to have you join us for a fun time, The Union Cdllege Chamber Orchestra. Jerry Snover (ce~toerj\teaching Clapton (right) and Garcia (left) a few tricks. was great to hear again. ever 'Johnny Be Good', enhancing the beauty of the song by losing beat\. said Chris DePuy. Mike Tremante on sax intensified the fantastic O's. like to play to the general campus audience. Imagine a Fitz Hugh Ludlow or Camp Union where we could dance. Outside. Not freezing. Concert Committee, get with the hip Union program-The Toastie O's. \lt was hell\ Gary ·recalled referring to the decorations (c(>urtesy of .SD't) and heat at Sigma Phi, not the resurrection ofJeffWinter. Guest appearances of Dave ~herman singing a \better than The Toastie O's are psyched about their band. And, they'd .. :; HOROSCOPE by \'IC' Aquarills Hey birt.hday sign, it's O.K. to remind somewhat braindead friends that this is your day. :tfappy Birthday Elizabeth T. Pisces Too much money and no idea how to spend it. Think Scorpio. Aries Bowling! Bowling predominates this week. TauruS Your body is a temple! Of Doom?! Gemini If you don't make the Idol's poetry reading 8:30 Tuesday in the Skellar you're damned. Cancer Money doesn't sleep. Look for mates with bags under their eyes .. Leo Be young. Be spontaneous. Order your pizza from someone else. Vu-go Love lies (ooh la la) in wait outside Union's gate.s. libra Time. to get in touch with the younger generation. Buy that'·G~ns and Roses\ CD! Scmpio Get to work. No more parties. Think Thesis. ~. Is a permanent police record worth that college center bran muffin? Think about it. Copri.COJ1l Who'd you get that cold from anyway? ' JEOPARDY COMES TO IJNON SIGN UP SHEETS MAIL TO BOX 624 . \\' - Prepare An . WHEN 'I DEAIIINE? TEAM NAME FEB. II FEB.·ITII Alter-natiYe Team Player nAM .PLAYIIS Pllone No. TEAM'S &lex .. 4 P•eple ··PICKED· PRIZES :RANDOMLY Per1Hm 5 TEAMS Cre11te four . TIME? iEEDED Own Team HGPM NIIIM ALl. by tile Social Altnrtltes CommiHee •.

By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor \Who are they?\ a misty- ·eyed freshman breathlessly asked her roommate. \TheToastie O's,\ her friend whispered while continuing to wave, hoping the bassist would come play near her. \I heard he played with Clapton,\ a rather tall boy said, pointing to the guitarist busy fixing a broken string. I had to laugh. These were the same boys I've spent the last four years with? Suddenly transformed into STARS?! Rich Engdahl (bassist), Jeny Snover (guitarist), Jeff Winter (guitarist and vocals) and Gary Pastizzo (drummer) comprise the Toastie O's, Union's latest sound sensation. Saturday night performing to a packed Sigma Phi the band established themselves as the 1989 'IN' band: roll over, Net Weight. \I can't find a book on how to be a Rock and Roll star,\ an always prepared Rich Engdahl (bassist and founder of the Os) confided · to me before CONCORDIENSIS Februllry 2, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Union's Toastie 0' s Saturday's show. I was a bit surprised by his request knowing, as I was his downstairs neighbor freshman year, his humble, oh so humble, mus.ical beginning. Unhip to the magnetism of the O's, I still saw him as just Rich, soccer player extraonlinare. Later, in a brief interview during the band's only break (in four hours of playing) he revealed, \I'm an exhibitionist ... a potpourri of flesh.\ Jerry, forgetting to be the proper cryptic rock star, stated simply \we're making people dance.\ Excited by the captivated, thirsty audience, he bubbled \they're even dancing outside on the porch! Imagine a car driving by wondering why people are freezing outside, it's because they're dancing to US!\ The 'US' includes Jeff Winter, an '88 graduate and staple of Union's music scene. This 'old' working man's seductively hoarse voice (he said it was a cold) which engaged groupies and captured more than a few new hearts Jerry Snover (center) 'teaching Clapton (right) and Garcia (left) a few tricks. was great to hear again. \It was hell\ Gary recalled referring to the decorations (courtesy of SDT) and heat at Sigma Phi, not the resurrection of Jeff Winter. ever 'Johnny Be Good', enhancing the beauty of the song by losing beat\ said Chris DePuy. Mike Trcmante on sax intensified the fantastic O's. Page 17 An Exciting Note · Guest appearances of Dave Shennan singing a \better than The Skel·lar The Toastie O's arc psyched about their band. And, they'd like to play to the general campus audience. Imagine n Fitz Hugh Ludlow or Camp Union where we could dance. Outside. Not freezing. Concert Committee, get with the hip Union program-The Toastic O's. HOROSCOPE by ''1C' Aquarius Hey birthday sign. it's O.K. to remind somewhat braindead frtends that this is your day. Happy Birthday Elizabeth T. On Saturday evening, May 13, a terrific concert is scheduled to present the Union College Chamber Orchestra and Choir and three conductors! The program is full of exciting music. Selections include: The \Egmont Overture\ by Beethoven, \Mother Goose Suite\ by Ravel, Borodin's \Polovetsian Dances,\ a solo selection featuring a member of the Union College Choir, and Beethoven's \Choral Fantasy\ for piano, chorus, and orchestra. The program is particularly interesting because it features our very own concertmaster, Ed Lin, as conductor of the \Egmont Overture.\. Also. the Ravel piece is being specially orchestrated for us by students in Prof. Tann's Arts 144 class. If you are interested in participating in this great event, stop by Memorial Chapel at 7:00pm tonight, or call Prof. Tann at x6566 ... especially if you play trombone, tuba, harp, or any string instrument. Hope to have you join us for a fun time, The Union College Chamber Orchestra. Pisces Too much money and no idea how to spend it. Think Scorpio. Aries Bowling! Bowling predominates this week. Taurus Your body is a temple! Of Doorn?! Gemini If you don't make the Idol's poetry reading 8:30 Tuesday in the Skellar you're damned. cancer Money doesn't sleep. Look for mates with bags under their eyes. Leo Be young. Be spontaneous. Order your pizza from someone else. Vtrgo Love lies (ooh la la) in wait outside Union's gates. Libm Time to get in touch with the younger generation. Buy that \Guns and Roses\ CD! Scorpio Get to work. No more parties. Think Thesis. Sagittarius Is a permanent police record worth that college center bran muffin? Think about it. Capricorn Who'd you get that cold from anyway? JEOPARDY COMES TO UNON SIGN UP SHEETS MAIL TO BOX 624 - Prepare An WHEN? DEADLINE? TEAM NAME FEB. 11 FEB. 8TH Alternative Team Player TEAM PLAYERS Phone No. TEAM'S & Box 4 People PICKED PRIZES RANDOMLY Per Team 5 TEAMS Crarate YGur TIME? NEEDED Own Team 2:00PM Nrame by the Social Alternratives CommiHee ALT.

Pag:e 18 CONCORDlENSlS February 2, 1989 ~----- ____ A_,R_T_S_-•_&_.E_-N_T_E_R_T_A_I_N_M_E_N_T_------···--~--·~'- Sruti, Tabla & Tanbura? Yes! By JOHN CEDRIC PEDERSEN On Friday night, in the dance studio of the Arts Department, a number of students, faculty, and members of the community gathered Indian style on the floor to hear music of North India, the second performance of the Winter Improvisation Series. Steve Gom, who played the bansuri flute, 'was the nigpt's guest of honor. He literally enchanted the audience with his interpretatiens of North Indian classics. The bansuri flute is a wooden flute which comes in various lengths and diameters. For his first piece, which lasted about 45 minutes, Gom played just one flute, but for subsequent pieces he used two or three, al temating between them. As he played his flute, he operated a sruti box with his foot, producing a continuous hum that sounded not unlike a bagpipe, This hum quivered in the background .and, as Gorn explained to the audience, it is this hum which enhances the notes that he plays on the flute. This constant hum hannollizes with the notes of the flute to add ~texture to its melody. Gom was accompanied by Ray Spiegel, who played the tabla, (which incidentally were introd11ced in the series last week by John Rucci who accompanied Esther Lam!leck), these are small drums made with se:v~ral different kinds of animal skins to produce a variety of tones. The drums served. p-rimarily as accompaniment, thougll. at times, when the melody of tlie flute subsided, attention was turnecl to the tabla. Without them, the flute playing -- even with tile sruti box -- would have oounded hollow. The tanbura played by Tom Ross was a long, three-stringed instrument, which seemed to make less noise than Tom Ross himself; enthralled b:y the ·beauty of the music, he released a few of his own expressions of awe. Gorl) did not spend much time talking to the au(lience about his playing, yet not mucn needed to be said after hearing him. The two pieces he played lasted about 45 minutes each~ and they were 45 minutes of spiritual, almost hypnotic music. In many ways, the evening seemed to be more of a meditation than a concert. The atmosphere was casual, largely due to the shoeless audience who Sat On the floor and the placid music of the evening; Aside from the concert and the music itself, it was nice to see a greater number of students at the concert. The beauty of this .series, as the audience saw Friday night, is that the College · is ~eing introduced to a variety ofrnusic that might otherwise never be heard on this campus·. Without intendiQg to sound like an advertisement, I would suggest that everyone experience these concerts and the beauty of the music of performers such as Steve Oom and Ray Spiegel. The next concert of the series will be Zen Music of Japan with Ronnie Nyogetsu Seldin on Friday, February 10. Zen Music Of Japan Zen Music of Japan with Ronnie Nyogetsu Seldin playing shakuhachi will be the third concert in the Winter Improvisation Series offered annually by the Department of the Arts at Union College. Under the direction of Professor ,. 6~·:,: ;.- • '~ . '\' {\ . : ... ~- .' . ~~ ' , Hilary 'Tann the four-concert series is held in January and February. Nyogetsu studied shakullachi in Ky<Jto, Japan with Yodo Kurahashi Sensi, a teacher of traditi<mal Zen music. The 28 APRIL 1989 The Ultimate Celebration ·Senior Spring Ball une Soiree a Souvenir shakuhachi is a vertical bamboo flute with a haunting, natural sound. Zen music is quietly meditative and has a history dating back over a thousand years .. The founder of Ki-Sui-An, a shakuhachi Dojo (place of learning) in the New York City area, N yo getsu, specializes in performing and teaching traditional shakuhachi music, both the older Zen music as well as the trio-ensemble music. The Dojo also serves as a resource center for those who are interested in the music of shakuhachi music and 1i terature. Zen Music of Japan will be offered Friday evening, February 10 at 7:30 p.m. in the Performing Arts Center in the Arts Building at Union College in Schenectady. Admission is free. Information may be o\btained from tbe AI1s Office at the college . At • Proctor's With Nina and Amanda !- By NINA SMJLARl and AMANDA ARONOFF While most ,of Union College was sleeping off their b.angovers from Friday . evening, we were attending the • . matinee performance of the ·- . ........._ _ Joffrey II Dancers• production of B\eauty and the 'Beast. In short, the story' is about a Prince who leads a life of intrigue and rev:elry. He is found wanting in compassion. and is thus cast under a spell. . · that only can be broken by true · '· love. The $peH transforms him into· a beastly looking creature who although lacking in . physical beauty is rich in character. In return for the plucking of a rose. a merchant's life is demanded by tbe Beast. Beauty. the merchant's young daughter, sets off to find her father and after initially fearing the .. Beast, . · falls unconditionally in love • wit!r him. The Prince. after · being ostracized by society, discovers true Jove in Beauty and the spell is broken. \Really Amanda, I was most impressed by the expressiv~ costumes worn throughout the production, particularly those of the forest scene when .the dancers personified various · animals .. \ \I agree with you Nina that the forest scene was- the most · aesthetically pleasing. and . · filled with clev<er images. I also think that it was the only scene l:n which the actual dance movement was more varied and unusual.\ \Well .actually, Amanda, another scene that· I did Hke was the one in which two . women were bickering over the rose that the merchant had plucke<L·I found their halletical mov~rnents to be very powerful and dramatically successful.\ \Balleticalmovements?? that. sounds anal ... Actually Nina, balletical isn't a word. Perhaps if you had a little dance experience you might have ·picked up. as I did. that the movement in· this scene ·was very ·basic. I wanted tlie dancers to 'wow' me .• I .am swe that they were capable of it,· but the choreograpl'iy just didn't give them the opportunity.\ \Perhaps Amanda, the scene failed to capture your attention as the dancers in tfiat scene were primarily women and · there were nQ .ffien jumping around in tights. I do agree with you, however, becaus·e on the whole where the performance succeeded as a drfl1Ila ~ feel it failed as a ballet. Thjs shortcoming was most · obvious in the last scene, which was an attempt at clasica1 ballet,\ \Yes Nina, for those reasons I believe that this performance of Beauty and the Beast is more appropriate for a younger audience who wish to oe entertained by exquisite costumes, beautiful music, and a fun pre!llise, rather than for the individual who wishes to see a serious ballet.\ 5l !F_isft Ca[{ec£ -Wanda 1 Buck Fri., Sat. & Sun. 7, 9, 11 \I

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 : ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Sruti, Tabla & Tanbura? Yes! At Proctor's With Nina and Amanda By JOHN CEDRIC PEDERSEN On Friday night, in the dance studio of the Arts Department, a number of students, faculty. and members of the community gathered Indian style on the floor to hear music of North India, the second performance of the Winter Improvisation Series. Steve Gorn, who played tbe bansuri flute, was the night's guest of honor. He literally enchanted the audience with his interpretations of North Indian classics. The bansuri flute is a wooden flute which comes in various lengths a11d diameters. For his first piece, which lasted about 45 minutes, Gorn played just one flu.te, but for subsequent pieces he used two or three, alternating between them. As he played his flute, he operated a sruti box with his foot, producing a continu()US hum that sounded not unlike a bagpipe. This hum quivered in the background and, as G()m explained to the audience, it is this burn which enhances the notes that he plays on the flute. This constant hum harmonizes with the notes of the flute to add texture to its melody. Gorn was accompanied by Ray Spiegel, who played the tabla, (which incidentally were introduced in the series last week by John Rucci who accompanied Esther Lamneck), these are small drums made with several different kinds of animal skins to produce a variety of tones. The drums served primarily as accompaniment, though at times, when the melody of the flute subsided, attention was turned to the tabla. Without them, the flute playing -- even with the sruti box -- would have sounded ho1low. The tanbura played by Tom Ross was a long, three-stringed instrument, which seemed to make less noise than Tom Ross himself; enthralled by the beauty of the music, he released a few of his own expressions of awe. Gorn did Hot spend much time talking to the audience about his playing, yet not much needed to be said after hearing him. The two pieces he played lasted about 45 minutes each, and they were 45 IRinutes of spiritual, almost hypnotic music. In many ways, the evening seemed to be moFe of a meditation than a concert. The atmosphere was casual, largely due to the shoeless audience who sat on the floor and the placid music of the evening, Aside from the concert and the music itself, it was nice to see a greater number of students at the concert. The beauty of this series, as the audience saw Friday night, is that the College is being introduced to a variety of music that might otherwise never be heard on this campus. Without intending to sound like an advertisement, I would suggest that everyone experience these concerts and the beauty of the music of performers such as Steve Gorn and Ray Spiegel. The next concert of the series will be Zen Music of Japan with Ronnie Nyogetsu Seldin on Friday, February 10. By NINA SMILARI and AMANDA ARONOFF While most of Union College was sleeping off their hangovers from Friday evening, we were attending the matinee performance of the Jaffrey II Dancers' production of Beauty and the Beast. In short, the story is about a Prince who leads a life of intrigue and revelry. He is found wanting in compassion and is tlms cast under a spell that only can be bnJken by true· love. The spell transforms him into a beastly looking creatrne who although lacking in physical beauty is rich in charac~er. In return for the plucking of a rose, a merchant's life is demanded by the Beast. Beauty, the merchant's young daughter, sets off to find her father and after initially fearing the Beast, falls unconditionally in love with him. The Prince, after being ostracized by society, discovers true Jove in Beauty and the spell is broken. urmsual.\ \Well actlially, Amanda, another scene that I did like was the one in which two . women were bickering over the rose that the merchant had plucked. 'I found their balletical movements to be very powerful and dramatically successful.\ \Balletical movements?? that sounds anal ... Actually Nina, balletical isn't a word. Perhaps if you had a little dance experience you might have picked up, as I did, that the movement in this sce11e was very basic. I wanted the dancers to 'wow' me. I am sure that they were capable of it, but the choreography just didn't give them the opportunity.\ Zen Music Of Japan \Really Amanda, I was most impressed by the expressive costumes worn throughout the production, particularly those of the forest scene when the dancers personified various animals.\ \Perhaps Amanrui, the scene failed to capture your attention as the dancers in that scene were primarily women and there were no men jumping around in tights. I do agree with you, however, because on the whole where the performance succeeded as a drama I feel it failed as a ballet. This shortcoming was most obvious in the last scene, which was an attempt at clasical ballet.\ Zen MuS'ic of Japan with Ronnie Nyogetsu Seldin playing shakuhachi will be the third concert in the Winter Improvisation Series offered annually by the Department of the Arts at Union College. Under the direction of Professor Hilary Tann the four-concert series is held in January and February. Nyogetsu studied shakuhachi in Kyoto, Japan with Yodo Kurahashi Sensi, a teacher of traditional Zen music. The 28 APRIL 1989 The Ultimate Celebration Senior Spring Ball une Soiree a Souvenir sl!akuhachi is a vertical bamboo flute with a haunting, natural sound. Zen music is quietly meditative and has a history dating back over a thousand years. The founder of Ki-Sui-An, a shakuhachi Dojo (place of learning) in the New York City area, Nyogetsu, specializes in performing and teaching traditional shalmhachi music, both the older Zen music as well as the trio-ensemble music. The Dojo also serves as a resource center for those who are interested in the music of shakuhachi music and literature. Zen Music of Japan will be offered Friday evening, February 10 at 7:30 p.m. in the Performing Arts Center in the Arts Building at Union College in Schenectady. Admission is free. Information may be obtained from the Arts Office at the college. \I agree with you Nina that the forest scene was the most aesthetically pleasing, and filled with clevu images. I also think that it was the only scene in which the actual dance movement was more varied and \Yes Nina, for those reasons I believe that this performance of Beauty and the Beast is more appropriate for a younger audience who wish to be entertained by exquisite costumes, beautiful music, and a fun premise, rather than for the individual who wishes to see a serious ballet.\ f4_ ~isli Ca{{etf Wanda 1 Buck Fri., Sat. & Sun. 7,9, 11 ~·~ ~-- A & E BRIEFS Proctor's, Schenectady ... 382·3884. Wed. 8:00. Broadway Bound: The Third in Neil Simon's Auto- Biographical Series. Capital Rep., Albany .. 462-45334. . Sat., Sun. 8:00. The Voice of the Prairie: Radio's Pioneer Days Recalled. Half--Moon Cafe. Albany : 43()-0329. . Fri. 8:00. Brazilian Jazz Band. (> Clpitol Chamber··.· Arlilts,, -:t\.rlbjaRf:. :::, : ', S,nn. {:QO. Selections from VivJldi, lt>liti~j Oteen and others •. , > , r' · ... Co.lie1e Ceal'l~~t 11&1111 :(il'OriJ'<tle~. · ... · ·~·. < .. · • . :Pri., S~t., Sun. 7; ?,1-L t'AFisltalledWanda''. .. . . ' ;,;fW';\Y:?;A1lM;~;;,;r;:~~~f~~??:. 9~ ~~1 • . ... . . . . .. . . .. . . ·I)..~tfi:tfSt~•U· '·

• 1~ CLUB NEWS • • \J • Photo Club MeeUng · Thursday, 2/2/89, Rm. 409', College Center,. 7;30 p.m .. Merton Tapes - Friday, Feb. 3 at ·noon, an are welcome to bring a brown bag lunch. and listen to a Merton Tape in CC404B. Monday Night .Suppt!:rs .,. February 6 at 5 p;m. in CC203. Either use your meal plan or bring, your own supper and join· Professor Joseph Board, Robert Porter Patterson, Professor of Government, for c.onversation and an informal presentation on \Church State and Human .Freedom.\ All .welcome. · Catboli(: Adult Video Education Series Tuesdays from 4:30 - 5 P•m. in 'Room · :204 of the Col1ege Genter Sr. Joan will provide an· opportunity for students to update and <Uscuss faith. issues with the Apostle's Creed as a guide, Tuesday, Februaty 7 - ,;Who Do You Say That I · Am?\ Par~ I. All welcome. Attendance at prior sess~ons not'llecessary. . Ash Wednesday - February 8 at 4:30 p.m. there will be an ecl.'lmenical prayer service with the di~trib~Jtion of ashes in Memorial ChapeL V dentine Visit ·.to Nursing Homes n Sunday, February ·12¢ any student. who wishes to visit Hall mark . & Silver Haven to bring a Valentine Greeting pleas.e meet . at the CC Circle at 1 p.m. We will return by 3 p.m. . . Over-night Retreat Friday, February 17th· at 5 p.m .. to Saturday, February 18th at 5 p.m. at 163() Nott Street plan now to make· a retreat for lent.. Theme: Spiritual Growth and Self- Concept To help us become aware that a positive self image is the basis of loving acceptance of others and a necessary condition for becoming open to one's self, to others and to God. A donation of $5 when you register with SR. Joan. APPLE DEMOS RESCHEBULED KEEP 'i'liE FOLLOWING DA'l'E OPJ;:tn ! Febru.ry· 15th - 10 AM tO ~ ~M -in CC 409 Macintosh representative, Kathy J<u~rt from . Computer Professionals and Donna Speaks, a systems engineer from Apple, ~long with Joe· GuiCll also from. CPI, Will ~e at the· colleg~· center to demonstrate soma· of Apple .Gomputer's newest products ... Apple Fax Modem Apple Scanner CDROM --laser Oisk Technology Color Scanner & taser Printer A~lmatioli Graphics an the Mac ·II· Questions· will· be welcomed. Cut a Paste this up on your 'things to do· and places to go• . board ·so you won't miss this computing event . sponsored by !he Office of Computet $et'Vices~ . . . El . ~ . . / ' .. _. -------~--* *. leb * t. ·.. Ce ... rat.~ . ·-**·· w v ct..lentine's · .... * * Day·. * ·. * with a flower *' * tro1ll· · * # . Ciri,;k 1(· .- t, · :* ' 10 !!btolEf~m ·-*I. . * . ' * * Coliege Center * * and West * * Roses: * * $2.00 * * * * Carnations: * * $1.00 * * * CONCORDIENSlS February 2, 1'989 Page 19 CAMPUS NEWS Confirmation 1' his··· : Sunday Ma~S]Jleas~ meet at spring, Bishop Hubbm-d wlll 6:30 p.m. m the church to administer the Sacrall1el.1t of rehearse. Confirmation in St. f oln1 the Visiting Shut~ins: - Any Evangelist Church. Union t:n~on studen~t who wishes to students· are invite~d to v1s1t a shut-In on a regular participate. Any UnioFI s.ttldent basis during the~e dreary winte~ who has not been c()-nfirmed months, please contact Gern may contact Sr. Joai\ 4-04B Borne 372-3381, College Center w;f:lo will arrange meetings tq. assist CLASSIFIEDS- students in their prepm~tion. Tutoring - Union College students can be use(f in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten lll!ClMath Aides and Reading Qnaon<Ho- Qne. Please contact ~heila Hennigan 386-4353. Folk Group - All siagers and musicians interes1e.d in being part. of the Music Ministry at the 7:3() p.m. Hot nights, cool frozen drinks, reggae music, sandy beaches ... Affor'dable · spring break trips - to Jamaica, Acapulco, Cancun, and Daytona. Call Russell at 432- 5718 for details. Spring Break '89 Vacation packages are here!!! Travel to Jamaica, Acapulco, Cancun and Daytona. Complete trips starting at $399. Wanted Tutor for Conversational Finnish for ttip to Finland. Call 887-2967. . '·. SPECIALS THROUGH FEB. 7 I • Men's Haircuts are $9.00. Ask for Luann, JoAnn. •Women's Haircuts are $13.00. Ask for Luann, Joann. • Perms and Highlighting are $10.00 off. Ask for Lynn, Luann, JoAnn, Beth • Facials and Pedicures are $10.00 off. Ask for Lynn. BATH (bath, batli.J: A) ·the act ()f washing the body PUBLIC SPEAKING FEBRUARY 1989 B) a tub·oriank filled with water for bathing C) a beautiful city in England that :is a greai place to !f,CJ on a Term Abroad InformatiCJn meetirtg today at 4:30 in SS012. BE TBERD! COMPETITION I:N THE UPPER CLASS DINING ROOM 8:00PM SM.ART DRESS REQUIRED rr'5 11 toNG 5TORY. .. P{!Tff~ Me/ KeAf.LYl 1U f'I((}V6 lr:

CLUB NEWS Photo Club Meeting Thursday, 2/2/89, Rm. 409, College Center, 7:30 p.m. Merton Tapes - Friday, Feb. 3 at noon, all are welcome to bring a brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton Tape in CC404B. Monday Night Suppers - February 6 at 5 p.m. in CC203. Either use your meal plan or bring your own supper and join Professor Joseph Board, Robert Porter Patterson, Professor of Government, for conversation and an informal presentation on \Church State and Human Freedom.\ All welcome. Catholic Adult Video Education Series Tuesdays from 4:30- 5 p.m. ill Room 204 of the College Center Sr. Joan will provide an opportunity for students to update and discuss faith issues with the Apostle's Creed as a guide, Tuesday, February 7 - \Wfuo Do You Say That I Am?\ Part I. All welcome. Attendance at prior sessions not necessary. Ash Wednesday - February 8 at 4:30p.m. there will be an ecumenical prayer service with the di~tribution of ashes in Memorial Chapel. Valentine Visit to Nursing Homes - Sunday, February 12th any student who wishes to visit Hall mark & Silver Haven to bring a Valentine Greeting please meet at the CC Circle at 1 p.m. We will retwn by 3 p.m. Over-night Retreat Friday, February 17th at 5 p.m. to Saturday, February 18th at 5 p.m. at 1630 Nott Street plan now to make· a retreat for lent. Theme: Spiritual Growth and Self- Concept. To help us become aware that a positive self image is the basis of loving acceptance of others and a necessary condition for becoming open to one's self, to others and to God. A donation of $5 when you register with SR. Joan. , APPLE DEMOS RESCHEDULED d' ATTENTION.. . MACINTOSH OSERS acd would be Mac Osa:rs KEE.P THE FOLLOWING DATE OPEN 1 ~ February 15th - 10 AM to 2 PM in CC 409 Mac1ntosh representative, Kathy Kuhrt tram Computer Professronals and Donna Speaks, a systems engineer from Apple, along with Joe Gu1ce also from CPJ, wt/1 be at the college center to <ismonstrate some of Apple Computer's newest products ... Apple Fax Modem Apple Scanner CD ROM- Laser Disk Technology Color Scanner & Laser Printer Animation Graphics en the Mac II Questions will be welcomed. Cut & Paste this up on your 'things to do and places to go• board so you won't miss this computing event sponsored by the Office of Computer Services. 9 * * * Celebrate * * * * Valentine's * * Day * * * * with a flower * * from * * CircCe :!( * * * * Feb.l-11 * * * * 10amto6pm * * * * College Center * * and West * * Roses: * * $2.00 * * Carnations: * * * * $1.00 * * :1- CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 Page 19 Confirmation This spring, Bi:shop Hubbard will administer the Sacrament of Confirmation in St. John the Evangelist Charch. Union students are invited to participate. Any Union s!Udent who has n.ot been con.fttmed may contact Sr. Joan 404B College Center who will arrange meetings to assist stNdents in their preparation. Tutoring - Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten an.d Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 386-4353. Folk Greup - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. BATH (bath, bath): A) the act of washing the body B) a tub or tank filled with water for bathing C) a beautiful city in England that is a great place to go on a Term Abroad Information meeting today at 4:30 in SS012. BE THERE! Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Visiting Shut-ins: • Any Union studellt who wishes to visit a shut-in on a regular basis during these dreary winter months, please contact Gerri Borne 372-3381. CLASSIFIEDS Hot nights, cool frozen drinks, reggae music, sandy beaches ... Affordable spring break trips - to Jamaica, Acapulco, Cancun, and Daytona. Call Russell at 432- 5718 for details. Spring Break '89 Vacation packages are here!!! Travel to Jamaica, Acapulco, PUBLIC CAMPUS NEWS Cancl!ln anEI Daytona. Complete trips starting at $399. Wanted Tutor for Conversational Finnish for trip to Finland. Call 887-2967. Visage Hair and Tanning Studio 557 :;-.£01!tST. 374-0351 TANNING- ALL VISITS ARE $1.00 SPECIALS THROUGH FEB. 7 •Mea's Haircuts are $9.00. Ask for Luan.n, JoAnn. •Women's Haircuts are $13.00. Ask for Luann, Joann. •Perms and Highlighting are $10.00 off. Ask for Lynn, Luann, JoAnn, Beth • Facials and Pedicures are $1:0.00 off. Ask for Lynn. SPEAKING FEBRUARY 3, 1989 COMPETITION IN THE UPPER CLASS DINING ROOM 8:00PM SMART DRESS REQUIRED !T'5 IT {{}/116 57VRY !3f/T !T'.J M~ / K&AUY / 1UPI<OVE/1:

· Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS February 2,, 1989 CAMPUS. NEWS. PERSONALS Spring break '89 vacation packages are :here!!! Travel to Jamaica, Acapulco, Cap.cun and Daytona. Complete trips starting at $399. Kath, Congratulations on B.C. and UPENN. I anxiously await your decisions. Eileen .. North/Phi Delt V .B. Team, Tonight is the night we'll finally win in overtime. (Hopefully). · LOST: One really annoying bright yellow mitten. You · can't miss it if your eyes are even remotely open. Send to Box 685. INVICTA! (with cheesey . sunglasses) P.S. Webster defmes cheesey as slang: stylish, first-rate. I agree. RayL.- The Party was great The China divine Except for the fact you were there, it would have been fine. Emily, Did you have fun at the formal? Or should I say the bathroom? Where should I dig that hole? -Mom Becky T. in Oreece - I have tons of stories! You'Il get letters soon. -Amy COMING SOON Raquet:ball Tournament $5.00 Entry Fee-. puts you in the running for: Tickets for CATS. at Proctors A Haircut and blowdry at Shenanigans - $8 services at Charles II Hair Salon $15 gift certificate at The Open Door Books 1 of 1 0 pizzas from I Love NY Pizza ... And Much, Much More!!! LOOK FOR SIGN-UP BOOTHS AT THE COLLEGE CENTER AND WEST AnnM, Don't get stuck on the iceberg - Didn't you know· we are having a heat wave? Miss you lots! Go to Bath!!!! Go to Bath !!!! Go to Bath !!!! Waken' Bake- KateN. In beautiful Negri, Jamaica. Unbelievable spring break package starting at $439. Call Sun Splash Tours at 1-800- 426-7710. Badges, We don't need no Steenhen Badges. Not for T-N-T ·saturday Night. And on Saturday Night God created T-N-T and said: \Let 'There Be a Party\. Thank you . God. . 1'11 give you a dollar if you take my turn to make breakfast. Happy 20th .KlMMO! Have a great birthday - Be Good! Love, Lisa Butler! Wbat time is it? Cagle! Happy Belated 20th Christina! Hope it was special! . . L,ove_your ~x;-ropmie, Lisa HACKERS- Good job Monday night. We'll do better next year. Thanks! Jetsons ELECtRIC CURRENTS 1. Bobby Brown 2. Traveling Wilburys 3. Edie Brickell 4. . Def Leppard 5. Guns & Roses (ties) 6. Poison 7. Anita Baker 8. Guns. & Roses 9. '~Cocktail\ Sound· Track Source: Capital District Retail Music Store Sales I . Congratulations LAZt! Way t<> end your 15 week streak with a bang! Looking forwardt() six-months from now!! -KC Kath1 NYC or bustH What a weekend and what are we doing back here?? Love •. Stephanie RhondaJean ihe puke qu~n·- . · Hopethl:ngs don't ge! out of hanclthis weekend! To the six~piece Samsonite luggage set - How 1noused' were we? Thanks fora great time! Let's take a trip again soon! -The Galaxy Girls Happy-Birtliday Goober!! · Will there be any retroactive drinking this weekend? Hate •tQ see it!! Eate to see it!! LOST; A dol!Ill key coded 4AD 29 on a red coil key cbain. The key was lost in the vicinity of the Conege Center Sun.day night. Please'return to box 1340. Thank you. Franz, Laura, Ed and Jeff, 'Thanx f~:>r the puppy dog. Cedric- I didit! Aren't you proud! Ei Love, W. Larry Rosenballs, How d<Jes it go again? :QOING, BOJNG, BOJNG?? . . Prof. Reynolds, So, was it beneficial to subsidize brothel sex? -Fall Term EC0-12. Jeremy, You 'better get rid of that 'tire' before you get back to the states. Just kidding, you were always a little chubby anyway. Love, 852U. Meyers, . Yes. the guessing is now over (surprised?) But there is so much more ahead. Get Psyched. Love, Nina. Ruth- 1 guess ·the :mystery is over. I'm really excited you're my little sis and even more psyched to become your fi;iend. Finally I can sign my name ... · LOve, Amanda. Art; . . I wish you could be in Greece with me. It's not the same without you!' Miss you lots! S ' . I ·Ka· agapo, te. . Please return my prown leather jacket! It'\\vas taken (accidentally?) from Chi Psi on Saturday night and I miss it! If you know anything about it, please contaGt Security at X63,SO, Art,. I wish you were here. Greece isn't the same without you. I love you. Kate. Ann, Partying on the Parthenon just won't be the same without you:! Miss you lots! . Kate&Jen Sue, The number is officially five. OWE812 RL, For 300 the band was OK, but we hear yoa can get the hockey· pep band for 200 - Sigma Phi Pledges. Ta·iussian with Love, . I rpgret my proposition for withdrawal from \battle\ . tliough I'm glad now that our ''b:attle\ is as \fierce\ as it used tQ. ·be. .The~'Angry\ American. LOST! LOST! Brown leather jacket from Sigma Phi. Great sentimental value, large reward!! No questions asked. Call X4468. f

I CONCORDIENSIS February 2, 1989 Page 21 Mouthift!J ·Off ••• . ·-- _,_ Continued from page n student-athletes should be p&id for their .services, :but if you com~ine. it with· the fourth reason, maybe you can find the connection. My fourth and last reason has to do with knees. Bad Knees. Wrecked Knees. Jeliy Knees. You get my point?!? lmAgine Danny Manning playing Oklahoma in the NCAA Basketball Championship last year. Now imagine him blowing out a lrnee, like he recently did with the Los Angeles Clippers, and ending his basketball career. He just lost out· on about $10 million of gu~anteed inco.Qle for throwing an orange ball in a. hoop. Players should at least be insured by their schools for their athletic services., so in tbe eventtheir c~eers are cut short, or even cut out,: they can be guaranteed some income. Lloyd's of London and its Syndicates will insure anything·, so there is no problem in fi~t:ding the insurance. Maybe a school can place some of its· 'winnings' into a trust fund for any players who pull up gimpy md Whose careers are ended p.renaturely, Pel'vis Ellis of Louisville's Basketball C~dina!ls sprained ligamentgs· in his knee over the past weekend~ He lllcked oat. A little more, a pop.,. amd bye, bye Pervis. Have a nice life and thanks for your .ti('lle, and the money we ma(fe at your expense. . If something is net done, big time college athletics will become a thing M the past, · because . in time lkigh school stars. will turn pro ilnmediately for the sure m~mey. It is bound to happen. I mea.n,. look at Moses Malone, ancl his 'Fo Fo Fo.' Scary thought, isn't it?!? : -~· .. -~ -·~·~\\\'':· ,,~-~--·~...,_.. ..... _ .. \\'- THE NEW ROCK & ROLL DUTCH . . ' HOLLOW . HOURS: 5-11 EVERYDAY Come visit us at the · College ,Center or Call for free delivery ... .· 370-6060 $5.00 minimum or a small pizza ~------------------------------~-~ . I I I I . I $1.00· off coupon fo.r PIZZA DELI:VERIES ONLY - ~--~-----~-----~-------------~---~ WANT'ED: Studen-t Hosts for the Scholars program: 1. Host a 'desirable' student 2. Get a good, free dinn~r .3. ·February 23- 24, Thursday overnight Contact Ann or Diana at the Admissions Office x6112 IN RE.SPONSE TO .MANY REQUESTS BY OUR STU:DENTS, THE RATHS ELLAR ~~~:E 1 HOUR EARLIER ON WEEKENDS .. MON. -FRI. 11 AM. TO 8 PM MEAL CARDS: 11;30 .. 2 PM LUNCH 4:30-7 PM DINNER. - . ·SAT. -SUN. 3 PM 10 8 PM MEAL CARDS: 4:30-7 PM DINNER STOP BY AND ENJOY THE GOOD MUSIC, GOOD FOOD, AND GREAT fRIENDS II ..

Page 22 . CONCORDIENSlS J1q·bl'r.tary ~' 198!} <!Lnncnrnirnsia SPORTS Baseball: The Per.petual Season By ANDREW SEEWALD An advertisement for Mets tickets including the 1989 Mets home schedule appeared on the back page of Monday's New York Times ·sports section. The night before, Larry King reminded listeners of Costas Coast to Coast that it is only a few short weeks until pitchers and catchers report to training camps in Florida and Arizona. February is upon us. All of this was enough to prompt me to write something about baseball. After all, baseball is our nation's pastime, and I am fairly sure that Americans do pass the time even during the winter months, when a few cynics might argue that the baseball season is over. But, just like the cycles of the moon, no sooner does one baseball season end than does a new season begin. Here, baseball is unique among sports. The Super Bowl was played ten days ago, and, with the Pro Bowl as an appendage, the football season ended there. It is the same story in the spring when hockey. and basketball end their marathon playoff derbies. But how is it that when a baseball team is eliminated it is a sad and yet a hopef:ul day for its fans? It makes perfect sense for a first place team to have a \magic number\ for clinching a division. Bnt why should it be that for second place and the rest of the teams. there is a \magic number\ for elimination. Contradiction? Paradox? Oxymoron? In September, the month that most teams are eliminated,' baseball allows its teams to expand their rosters from 24 to 40 players. Why? Because next season begins the moment that a team is eliminated. Other sports find their new life in the form of an off- season draft. At that time, as much as three or four months· after some teams have been eliminated in the case of football, new hope is finally provided, and fan interest is temporarily allowed. Baseball's draft takes place in June, usually before the contenders are egregious among the pretenders. Thus, new hope is provided even before it is needed And what are the minor leagues., if not new bope itself? Football and basi<ettall have no such system, and ll()W often can a hockey tearn p()irit to. a Darryl Strawberry i11 its farm system and kn()w tilat the future will soon be.ar:riving. Latty King pointed <lut that there is only one ~p()rt that Opening Day can. b-elong to. Whereas football, .Jl.ock.ey. and basketball .seas.()IJs begin, baseball season &]'lens. It opens, as if it has te~n going on for a wh:ile, am:d' now the curtain is finally being lifted so that the audience can. see the results of what has lleen going on. What other spiJI:t is so demanded by its fans: tliat they have created an off--season league, complete vtitb a name and entire talk sh<JVJS <levoted to its analysis aad. gossip? · Football fans creatted the United States Football League, you guess. Wrong, nQ. talk 'Shows. Besides it was qnickly dis·covered that twenty weekends of footb:aU :a year are plenty, thank you very much. Baseball's Hot Sto'Ve League may not be a perfec:t substitute for the game itself, but it does ease the anxiousness until the curtain goes up. · Why Cut or Color Your Hair Without Seeing It First? . With the Inner Circle Hair Salon's New Image Computer, you can see what you look like with a new hair style, color, and cut - without a snip of the scissors! First · we will analyze the texture, shape, and length of your hair, and then we'll experiment - via computer. Your pictu~e will be photographed onto the computer, and then with a press of a key, whatev:er hairstyle you'd like will be fitted around your face. We will listen to you, and make any changes you would like. Want a complete makeover:? No problem. Want longer· hai1~? 'The special electronic pen will add some. Like the hair, but a differen.t C()lor? We will just press a key. When you're satisfied with the :st:rles you've chosen, the computer will present you with photos of you.r-self with up to four new hairstyles!: · INNER CIRCLE Studio Hair Salon ~ 377-8584 425 Liberty Street Schenectady Tues. to FTi 9-8 Saturday 8-4 ·Mouthing Off, Witll Andy .Braver College sports are a strange phenomenon. They are unlike professional sport.~ in S<l many ways, but the driving force hel:Jind both is the same: MONEY. 13efore I continue, I w<tnt to clll:tify that I am spealdng of big time Division l-A s;ports, 11ot Division lii .schools that g;et under 100 people at a hask:etball game. It is true, Union a11:d its Dt'Vision II and III teams :share tiluch of the same with a school like North Carolina. and als() with SMU and Kansas. We all have Student bodies t<Jtally enthralled with and .exJlecting great success from each and every team~ jUJlior v:usity and varsity included. Bllt unlike SMU and Kansas, Uni()n possesses a clean and de'Si:rable reputation. SMU and Ka11sas are both on vi(.)lation ofot recruiting violatioiis .• the Mtlstangs in football and the defending Nationai CllarniJion J~;yhawks in basketbalL Now, back to this strange ph.enomenon. There are no fair weather fans in college sports. Yo11 love your school tlnough tlle thick and thin, and even worse. But come on, wh:o was a New York Mets fan before Darry 1 and Gary and Keith et all .•. Get my drift?!? 1'11ere are aiso no intelligence fact()rs in professional sports. Wdl, this is not totally accarate, but on the whole it is tr:11e. In baseball and boc:key, players are drafted 011t of diapers, and in basekth.aU, if y~u can tie your hi-tops, you areeligible for the NBAalld its a:ve1age salary of over $50.0,000 a season. Dale Hawerchuk is a perfect ex:.arnple ~ he is 25 years old, ancl he is i11 l1is eighth full seas<ln with tlle Winnipeg Jets of the National Hockey League; Wh:y is it that a player ()Jl that team who ·caJinot aff()rd college, let al~ne the clothes he wears, is o~t entitled to a share of tbe money? Only the National F()otball League has a rule that makes pl~yers without four ye:ar:s of C()llege experience ineligible fo.r their draft. Unfortunately, th1& rule is not going to be around for much lollger, because there are already Sll]}J>lemental drafts \Where 'irleligible' players are ch()sen. Rut the ranks of collegiate atllletics have a go~erning body unlike anything in pwfessional SJJ()rts of any 'kind,. and u!lf()rtunately for athletes all across America, the NCAA e11joys wielding its power like am iron fist. I, for one, see a :Pr{lblem with the NCAA and its power. I propose that college atllletes ae paid for their setvices, and here a few reasons QJI:Jy. First of all, the majority of atfiletes who go to college on atbletic scholarships d.o not g~duate anyway, so what is the use i::>f giving· them a· free 'education if they are not using it to its full potential. In many cases schools lower standards so that their student-athletes will be able to make the requirements of the particular colleges and ulliversities. Secondly, these athletes bring in so :much money for ·their institutions that ~they should be entitled to at least part of it. 'Tile Michigan Wolverines Fo()tball team won the :Rose Bowl earlier this year, and they btought over $5 million back to Ann Arbor with them. Why is it that a ·player on that team who cannot afford Ct?llege, let alone the clothes he wears, is not entitled to a share of the money? 'IlJe NCAA says that it is illegal to give a player money,. a car, or even help. him to get an easy job in which he earns the money himself. Why? Hart Lee Dykes, a senior wide receiver at Oklahoma State University, singlehandedly led to the suspension <;Jf f()ur schools when they attempted to recruit him out of higb schooL The Cowboys supposedly paid him $5,000 in cash for deciding to attend State, who were later put on probation f()r four years because of this illegal payment. Why the hell is this payment illegal? Maybe his mother was sick in the llospital and he needed the money to pay her doctor's bill. And for $5,000? How much reven11e did Dykes bring th~ program at State. He set school records for receptions ¥td yards· this past season, and along with Reisman Trophy Winner Barry Sanders led his· team to a bowl victory. They were on national TV· partly 'because of his season's accomplisbments; and he can't even take $5,000. The NCAA has its priorities wrong. My third reason has to do with two higill-y publicized Propositions tllat the NCAA has chosen to adopt, 42 and 48. These two prepositions basically state that if your grades are low and your SAT scores are bad, or in other words, if you are a minority, you can't go w college and compete in athletics. Who gave the NCAA the right to determine wbo ,gets a colleage education? My fourth .and last reason has to do with knees. Bad · Kn.ees. Wrecked - I~n~es. Jelly Knees. Yon get my point'll? Sure, a great many student- · athletes do 11ot graduate. The numbers are alarmingly high·. But 'the individuals 'were all given the cha-nce at a college education, a chance so many people want bu1 do not get. lt is the individ\Jal's fault that they don't make the most of their opportunity. I really do not know why this third reason means that Continued on page 21 1 ] ] j

co ?. 1089 Ath·IE3t:e ·of the. Week ' . . - ' ~ . SPORTS . · By MARK ZIMMERMAN S:pc>rts Eclit~r · This week's 'Athlete Of The Week' is senior Doug Gregory.' Doug· had two excellent games this past . week. Against LeMoyne College, Doug was 7 for 10 frorn the field and 5 of 6 from the.line for 19 points. He also had 9 r-ebounds as Union won, 76-75. The victory was a milestone for the Dutchmen as it was the first time in Coach Scanlon's 16-yeat career at Union that they ha:c;l beaten a non-Division II.l team. LeM;oyne is in Division U. Later in the week, Gregory also had a standout performance against an undefeated Kings Point team. Union came up just short and lost at the bu:z;zer in overtime. Doug ·made 6- Of 9 field goals and sank 6 of9 foul shots for a total of 18 points, tops on the team. He also had 10 rebounds. Doug lias led Union in ~corin~ senn-thnes this year, ~nclu~~g- games. in which he scor~a· ''!1,. 2.4, 23 and 20 [){)LI~ Gregory· points, Jf~ has led the team in rebounds e.ight times and had his se.asoil high of l4 against Vassar. . Doug has been on the varsity · te~ since his frshman year. This year, he is one Qf the tJ:tree captains and has been a dominating player on the team. i \Doug has done an outstanding job for us this year,\ said Coach Scanlon. \We have been lOoking for consistency out of Doug for some time and he's giv.ing it to us now.\ :Coach Scanlon went on to say that Doqg has not let dow.n at all during the season. In addit-ion, he feels that Doug has done. an ~ceptional job as a captain, providing leadership both on and off the court. - .. ACCORDIN:G ' TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ During this year's Super Bowl, Cincinnati Bengal defensive lineman Tim Krum.rie suffered an excruciating compound fracture above his right ankle. NBC did . a respectable job covering his injury. They only showed a replay of it a couple of times, and only once after it became In this up and down season fer the Dutchmen, Doug Gregory has played well consistently and provided the necessary· . \eadership •. Congratulations to Doug and good luck to him and the rest of his teammates and coaches during the remainder of the season. · apparent just how graphically · · ttie replay showed his injury. Seeing someone's foot flop around like a piece of cooked linguine can be quite a nauseating experience. A View Of Sports This unfortunate accident brought back vivid memories of seeing Redskin quarterback Joe Theiseman have his leg snapped in two on a national I y televised game on Monday Night Football four autumns ago. His injury was shown from eve'!y angle possible; reverse angel, close-up, and the By RO:B RAPHAEL With the Super Bowl in the past and spring training for baseball a couple of weeks away, th.e focus of \sports enthusiasts shifts to basketball. Amidst a long drawn out NBA season, where most of the games are meaningless, the loyal basketball fan turns to the excitement of college hoops. · • feel P10JJ 4& - is unfair, especialJr its·\aew amendment. The lear!oer <Jf the crusdade · against :Plt>p 4& and the new amendment. is Georgetown University coa\Ch John ThomJlsom. Tllompson sat out a couple ()f gcunes this season in protest: TllJmpson daims the SATto be a racially biased test, hoo,ve-ver, a 700 is not much to ~sk for. What is ~ Thonrpso11 arguing about? He coaches .a.t Georgetown, a Washburn is in drug rehabilitation. Further, how about a program like Memphis - St. which during a 1 0-year period (1976-1986) boasted a whopping 10% rate of graduating its basketball players. footage might have even been shown backwards. If ABS had had a camera that could have shown the mishap with an x- ray picture, they would have used it. I grim~ced and turned green all ten times they showed Theiseman's right leg getting snapped like a breadstick. It Women's Page 23 SPOR'TS basically became the halftime show. This kind 'Of .coverage that painful inju;rice~ receive is comparable to rullbemecking at bad automobile :1ccidents. Who really wants .to se.e h.ones and joints bend and t\\\ist in ways that they're not supp!()sed to? Maybe Dick \/itale could host a televisi()n ~h<Jw about sprains, brui&es, and broken bones. It would b-e a great test of his adjective-la<len verbiage. This kind of sh()\W would be a big hit. It woulrl appeal to the latent, morbid curi()usity that seeing others' 111isuy sparks in so many of u&. Jt would be the kind of circu:s that ABC's handling of Joe T'heiseman's injury turned rnl0- . Injuries are inherent in sports. Part of televised sports coverage is the !honnan interest story; usual! y about so me adversity, often a se:ri<Jus injury that the athlete has overcome. Instead of rep~aying Tim Krumrie rolliiig {)n the ground in agony, NBC chCJse to cover. his refusal to leave Joe Robbie stadium before tile end of the game, which ac1d:ed to the emotion of the Sutler Bowl. Basketball In a season where any universit)l wltic:h is listed as number of teams could win th~ most cOII1J>etitive and has an N.C.A.A. Tournament, we average SA1' of over 1300. hear more about the ·Thom:ps()ll ;taLks about being controversial issues such as fair, bu1 is it fair what he is Propo~it~on 48 ~nd i!legal doing ·tu his players-- having recru1.t~ng :rwlatw?-s· · them c.O\IllPete in the PropOSltlOn 48 IS an arttcle classr<Jo!Ils witii students who which states that f!I1 incoming have oV'er 1300 board sc01:es? freshman m~st have at least a Just irna~i11e- taking an upper- 700 on theu SAT and a C level b:ic)lag-y class with no average.Ifthosestandarddsare prevfQus. 1c11owledge of ~lot. ~et the student . is biology. \tak::e. for exa~ple~ a mellg1ble to play or practice playe;r lil<e Cllris Washburn; with the team for one year. who acllioeved a 470 score on Recently, an amendment to his SAT', W'a.shbum went three Prop 48 was proposed that if years to N(lrtb Carolina State the standards are not met, an during 'Wllid1 he was arrested individual would lose his for stealing a stereo, and was scholarship for a year as. well. suspended fmm the team for Many coaches and individuals various C>the1 .teasons. TOday, An alternative to Prop 48 which would satisfy the player, the school, and the fans would he· to set up a minor league in basketball. This, would give the high school student somewhere to tum to showcase his talent. A proposal would be to make the C.B.A.. into a farm league for the N,B.A., somewhat like Triple A is for major league baseball. Fares Well In Capital flockey Wins -Seventh In A Row .. . Continued from back page the seas0n. Moltenbrey would be lifted after the period. Merrimack outshot Union 19-4 in the third period, but they did not dominate like those numbers would indicate. Delventhal reminds fans that the key upcoming game for the Dutchmen will be at Hamilton on Tuesday, rather than the RIT game. Hamilton is right behind third place Union in the ECAC West standings. Unfortunately, this proposal will never be accepted. The reason? Money. College basketball would stand to lose millions in revenue if such a minm: league existed. It is a sad · commetnary that in today's age mpney is more important than the youth of America. It is time that the people became fed up with the rape of college athletes and tried to help them instead of looking the other way. . MAKE YOUR LIFE COMPLETE WRITE FOR SPORTSI CONTACT BOX 2281 District ·Tourney By KATE ALQUIST the Lady Dutchmen basketball team-is currently 7-7 with recent wins over St. Rose and Albany ·Pharmacy in the Capital District Tournament. The team placed third in the tournament by playing with inteasity and tenacious defense. In the first round, leading scorer Robin Romer had 16 points, and 12. rebounds while Wendy. Vincent added 14 points, and Lisa Hilton grabbed 11 rebounds. The second round game was a disappointing loss to RPI, 51-55. Playing hard against-this team were Romer, the . leading scorer with 19 points, Vincent with 14 more points. and Gina Prok.osch with 11. One reason for this disappointing loss was the lack of rebounding. In the final game, Union bounced hack to soundly defeat Albany- Pharmacy, 68-42. Once again, freshman Romer was leading scorer with 15 points and 12 rebounds, junior Prokosch added 12 points and 8 rebounds, freshman guard Jen Hill had 10 points and junior Vincent had 8 points and 5 rebounds. Freshman guard Cindy Hunter had an outstan<li11g: game with 8 points and 4 reJ)ounds. Her enthusiasm, hmstle, and intensity on tile flo<Jr was inspiring to an. Wendy 'Ville ent was deservedly nariieci to the All- Tournament 1'ea.trl for many reasons. One,. her overall leadership Oill the floor organized Union ~t times when the team needed it most. Two, Wendy was consistent in her shooting from the floor. Last, her free throw silootilig average of 75% is the hjg:hest on the team. Wendy deserved to be recognized for lter leadership and consistency. The following game against St. Rose proved disastrous for Union. Previot~sly beating them by two )J()ints, Union lost the game lb;:y 12 points, 51-63. In this game, Romer h~d 14 points aild 1 1 rebounds and Prokosch rnaod ll_points. However, with a. f.ew days' rest and some go01d practices, the Lady Dutchmen will definitely be ready to play Middlebury on Friday night,. a~:lY., and ready to trounce RIT ()O Saturday at 2 p.m. in the Field li<Juse. .. - •• ....

Alex Nestor fights for the rebound. Alex was 11u hero. of the LeMoyne game as he hit t.he tying and winning shots~ · hockey teilm continu.ect to sl;lcceed and upped the,jr re.:;ord to 13.-3. February 2, 1989 Men's Basketball Splits Two Nailbiters · By W. SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Editor The men's basketbaU team last week played in two of the most exciting games in recent team history. The Dutchmen showed a lot of poise and character in cqming from behind to nip LeMoyne by a point last Wednesday at Memorial Field House., 76-75. They carne up just short in an overtime thriller against undefeated King's Point over the weekend, losing 87-84. Lead by center Len Rauch, Division II LeMoyne caine into the game against Uniori as a favorite and cruised early. In the first half, Rauch scored 17 points and grabbed 8 rebounds while the team shot 53% from the field. The Dutchmen struggled in the half, turning the ball over as many times (10) as they had in the entire Binghamton game. Adding to their woes were some dubious calls by the officials. Doug Gregory was called for two questionable fouls, his second and third, which forced him on the bench for the last 7 minutes of the half. With time running out in the half, LeMoyne guard Julius Edwards picked up a loose ball and scored a layup to give the Dolphins a halftime lead of 4 2- 28 .. Switching from a 2-3 zone to man-to-man defense, the Dutchmen put the pressure on and chipped away a.t the LeMoyne lead in the second half. In one 4 minute stretch highlighted by back-to-back three pointers by Paul Brindle and two inside hoops by Elgin Rhodes, the Dutchmen rallied from an 11 point deficit to within three. Keeping the pressure on, the LeMoyne lead was cut to one when Mike Feeney coolly sank two free-throws in a one-and- one situation. Feeney was fouled twir:e more in the next minute and sank four more clutch free-throws, the last of which gave Union its first lead of the game, 73-72. With less than a mi11ute remaining, Edwards respon<led for LeMoyne by sticking a three pointer and the Dutcbrnen were down by two with time running out. But Alex Nestor, who :bad -come into the game wllen Doug.Gregory fouled out 2t the 3 minute mark, got more tban he gambled for when he tCl()k the ball inside with ten sec<;nds left. His shot was good for tile- tie, plus he was fouled .. lie sank the free throw and with it the Dolphins. As time ran oat, Feeney blocked a J11liJis Edwards desperation shot md the Dutchmen had pulled o:ff a miracle. The excitement didn't e11d there, as the long road trip to King's Point produced ·a:n equally intense competiti<>n- The Dutchmen came ()Ut strong against the undefeate-d Mariners. Capitalizing on several turnovers, Union jumped out to a 21-12 lead midway through the first half to dull the roar of a fired· U]J King's Point crowd. At tile half, the lead was 38-31. The Mariners came out firin:g in the second half, and for tll.e most part, they we~en~t missing. One Mariner wh<1 seemed to have. a particillarly hard time missing was seaie>r forward John Doherty. R~ began the second half scorinz the same way he ended it: witll .a three pointer. The crowd got ..going, making a tremendous amo11t1t of noise for a Division In gam~, and the momentu111 Switched as they tied the SC()ft at 52 with 11 minutes left i11 the game. Still, neither team could pull away as sloppy play took place on both ends of the C<lllft. Finally, the Mariners went up 70-67 on baskets by Dohe.:t:t~ and Kevin D'Arcy with a minute and a half left in regulation. Jerry Brescia pulled the Dutchmen to. within two by . sinking his first of two free- throws, and a few seconds later . · put Union back in the lead · with a three pointer. D'Arcy tied the score at 71 by sinking one of two free . throws as regulation ended. · The overtime was very dose . as the two teams traded . tum overs and baskets evenly. · The Dutchmen had an opportunity to win the game with possession of tile ball and the score tied with 22 se~onds remaining. Unfortunately, they fell victim to their nemesis all season-- turnovers: tlle Mariners regained possession and won at the buzzet as Doherty sank a twenty-foot- three pointer. He finished the · game with 44 points and was 6 · of 7 from three point range. For the Dutchmen, the teams most consistent contributor, Doug Gregory, finished with another solid performance, scoring 18 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. Rhodes and Brescia also finished with good · numbers. Rhodes scored 16 · with 10 rebounds and 3 near blocks, while Brescia scored 16, including 3 three pointers. While losing an overtime .game at the buzzer is always disheartening, the Dutchmen played a solid game and almost handed the Mariners their first · loss of the season. Their past two games have indicated that the young team is maturing and playing together better as a · unit. The team's main concern, once again, is turnovers. They had 23 against King's Point. To hand another team the ball that many times in a game and · expect to win is asking a lot. Heading into Tuesday's game against RPI .the Hoopsters were 7-.6 and looking to improve on that. Coach Bill Scanlon called the RPI matchup a \must win game\ heading into two tough road games against Harnilt<>n and Hartwick this week. If the Dutchmen can cut down on their turnovers. winning will no doubt come easily for this talented crew. Skating DutchiT'le.n{ Defeat Merrimack-For s·eventh Straight Win for l<>ng. Just 37 seconds after By ANDREW S.EEW ALD Merrimack had evened the game, Dan Gould's ingenuity· Some of the 2,475 fans who put the Dutchmen back on tQp. jammed into Achilles Rink last Aggressively battling for the Saturday night might have puck with a Merrimack considered it an upset. After . defe11seman, Gould picked tb.e all, the Dutchmen, n<;>w 13-3, right ui.<>ment to lift the handed the visiting Merrimack defe11der's' stick off the puck, Warriors their first loss to a replacing it with his own. Division H team in nearly two Gould finished the play by years, a span of 40 games. But banging it past a shaky to those who have followed the Moltenbrey for his 6th goal of Dutchmen .all season, this was $e season and a 3-21ead. no upset. More accurately~ it Upion regained its two goal was the result of e?tceptional margin with Paul Sullivan talent combined with even :piclc.ed UP. his 3rd goal in the more exceptional hard work;. last four 'games. It was a Tonight !he Dutchmen· host power-play goal at the 19:02 Williams, and · then ECAC mark.of the first period. West leader RIT comes to 'l3y the· time the period had Achilles on Saturday· night. ended, the Dutchmen had The team will then close the outshot the Warriors 17-7, season With 5 of their last 6 oqtscored them 4-2, and had gamvs, on the road. worked the. fans into a frenZy. Guy Logan got the Andy Heinze scored for Dutchmen off to a fast start on Merri'mack at 4:37 of the Saturday. Just 61 seconds into second period to narrow the the game, Logan blasted a slap lead to 4-3, but the Dutchmen shot through a screen from continued tQ outhit; outhustle, high in the slot, for his 13th andolltplay the Warriors. goal of the season. John At fO: 19, the hard work .paid Moltenbrey, the Merrimack off when Scott Manley, a goaltender, seemed to lose his defenseman who carried tlie confidence at that po~t. puck; deep into Merrimack's end How important was it for and scored his first goal of the· Union to score first? \What year. With the Dutchmen that goal did was more to shortltanded, Manley-apneared .confmn the confidence we had to sirnply be killing time. coming in,\ said Union coach From. the comer to the left of Bruce Delventhal. \Obviously Moltenbrey, Manley threw the any time you p1ay a team like puck toward the goal. In his Merrimack, you want to get attempt to clear it, Moltenbrey ahead~\ put it into his own goal. The Dutchmen continued to Was Delventhal surprised at buzz around the ice, and, at the play .of Merrimack, which 3:42, despite being entered the game 20-5 overall shorthanded, they went up 2-0, and 10-0 against Division II Bill Railton picked up a loose opponents? \Any time you can puck in the Warriors' end, and, score two shorthanded goals in after Moltenbrey was taken out a g.arn~ you have to be of the play by his own surprised;'' said Delventhal. defenseman, Rail ton flipped the who ea.tned his lOOth career puck into the net for his 5th victory.as a head coach. gohl of the season. Nick Baratoff scored with 39 Merrimack scored the next se.conds remaining in the two goals of the game, results second period . for_ a 6-3 .of scrambles in front of Union Dutc,hmen lead. From his own goalie Ron Kinghorn. \I wasn't end. Bill Sedergren banked a that worried, because we were pass ·()ff. the boards to. spring stili outplaying them at that Baratoff ?n. a breakaway. point,\ said Delventhal. BaraU>ff .. frred the. puck past Even had a tie score worried Moloonbrey for his first..goal of him, he-wouldn't have worried Continued on page 23

LL.J 0::: a:: ~ z :r: 0 ..., >- Ill @ :r: c... Alex Nestor fights for the rebound. Alex was the hero of the LeMoyne game as he hit the tying and wirming shots. The hockey team continued to succeed as they beat Merrimack and lil'pped their record to 13-3. February 2, 1989 Men's Basketball Splits Two Nai:lbiters By W. SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Editor The men's basketball team last week played in two of the most exciting games in recent team history. The Dutchmen showed a lot of poise and character in coming from behind to nip LeMoyne by a point last Wednesday at Memorial Field House, 76-75. They came up just short in an overtime thriller against undefeated King's Point over the weekend, losing 87-84. Lead by center Len Rauch, Division II LeMoyne came into the game against Union as a favorite and cruised early. In the first half, Rauch scored 17 points and grabbed 8 rebounds while the team shot 53% from the field. The Dutchmen struggled in the half, turning the ball over as many times (10) as they had in the entire Binghamton game. Adding to their woes were some dubious calls by the officials. Doug Gregory was called for two questionable fouls, his second and third, which forced him on the bench for the last 7 minutes of the half. With time running out in the half, LeMoyne guard Julius Edwards picked up a loose ball and scored a layup to give the Dolphins a halftime lead of 42- 28. Switching from a 2-3 zone to man-to-man defense, the Dutchmen put the pressure on and chipped away at the LeMoyne lead in the second half. In one 4 minute stretch highlighted by back-to-back three pointers by Paul Brindle and two inside hoops by Elgin Rilodes, the Dutchmen rallied from an II point deficit to within three. Keeping the pressure on, the LeMoyne lead was cut to one when Mike Feeney coolly sank two free-throws in a one-and- one situation. Feeney was fouled twir;e more in the next minute and sank four more clutch free-throws, the last of which gave Union its first lead of the game, 73-72. With less than a minute remaining, Edwards responded for LeMoyne by sticking a three pointer and the Dutchmen were down by two with time running out. But Alex Nestor, who had come into the game when Doug Gregory fouled out at the 3 minute mark, got more than he gambled for when he took the ball inside with ten seconds left. His shot was good for the tie, plus he was fouled. He sank the free throw and with it the Dolphins. As time ran out, Feeney blocked a Julius Edwards desperation shot and the Dutchmen had pulled off a miracle. The excitement didn't end there, as the long road trip to King's Point produced an equally intense competition. The Dutchmen came out strong against the undefeated Mariners. Capitalizing on several turnovers, Union jumped out to a 21-12 lead midway through the first half to dull the roar of a fired up King's Point crowd. At the half, the lead was 38-31. The Mariners came out firing in the second half, and for the most part, they weren't missing. One Mariner who seemed to have a particularly hard time missing was senior forward John Doherty. He began the second half .scoring the same way he ended it: with a three pcinter. The crowd got going, making a tremendous amount of noise for a Division III gam.:!, and the momentum switched as they tied the score at 52 with 11 minutes left in the game. Still, neither team could pull away as sloppy play took place on both ends of the court. Finally, the Mariners went up 70-67 on baskets by Doherty and Kevin D'Arcy with a minute and a half left in regulation. Jerry Brescia pulled the Dutchmen to within two by sinking his first of two free- throws, and a few seconds later put Union back in the lead with a three pointer. D'Arcy tied the score at 71 by sinking one of two free throws as regulation ended. The overtime was very close as the two teams traded turnovers and baskets evenly. The Dutchmen had an opportunity to win the game with possession of the ball and the score tied with 22 seconds remaining. Unfortunately, they fell victim to their nemesis all season-turnovers: the Mariners regained possession and won at the buzze:r as Doherty sank a twenty-foot- three pointer. He finished the game with 44 :POints and was 6 of 7 from three point range. For the Dutchmen, the teams most consistent contributor, Doug Gregory, finished with another solid performance, scoring 18 points and grabbing 10 rebounds. Rhodes and Brescia also finished with good numbers. Rhodes scored 16 with 10 rebounds and 3 near blocks, while Brescia scored 16, including 3 three pointers. While losing an overtime game at the buzzer is always disheartening, the Dutchmen played a solid game and almost handed the Mariners their first loss of the season. Their past two games have indicated that the young team is maturing and playing together better as a unit. The team's main concern, once again, is turnovers. Tiley had 23 against King's Point. To hand another team the ball that many times in a game and expect to win is asking a lot. Heading into Tuesday's game against RPI the Hoopsters were 7-6 and looking to improve on that. Coach Bill Scanlon called the RPI matcllup a \must win game\ heading into two tough road games against Hamilton and Hartwick this week. If the Dutchmen can cut down on their turnovers, winning will no doubt come easily for this talented crew. Skating Dutchmen Defeat Merrimack For Seventh Straight Win By ANDREW SEEWALD Some of the 2,475 fans who jammed into Achilles Rink last Saturday night might have considered it an upset. After all, the Dutchmen, now 13-3, handed the visiting Merrimack Warriors their first loss to a Division II team in nearly two years, a span of 40 games. But to those who have followed the Dutchmen all season, this was no upset. More accurately, it was the result of exceptional talent combined with even more exceptional hard work. Tonight the Dutchmen host Williams, and then ECAC West leader RrT comes to Achilles on Saturday night. The team will then close the season with 5 of their last 6 games on the road. Guy Logan got the Dutchmen off to a fast start on Saturday. Just 61 seconds into the game, Logan blasted a slap shot through a screen from high in the slot, for his 13th goal of the season. John Moltenbrey, tlle Merrimack goaltender, seemed to lose his confidence at that point. How important was it for Union to score first? \What that goal did was more to confirm the confidence we had coming in,\ said Union coach Bruce Delventhal. \Obviously any time you play a team like Merrimack, you want to get ahead.\ The Dutchmen continued to buzz around the ice, and, at 3:42, despite being shorthanded, they went up 2-0. Bill Railton picked up a loose puck in the Warriors' end, and, after Moltenbrey was taken out of the play by his own defenseman, Railton flipped the puck into the net for his 5th goal of the season. Merrimack scored the next two goals of the game, results of scrambles in front of Union goalie Ron Kingborn. \I wasn't that worried, because we were stiH outplaying them at that point,\ said Delventhal. Even had a tie score worried him, he -wouldn't have worried for long. Just 37 seconds after Merrimack had evened the game, Dan Gould's ingenuity put the Dutchmen back on top. Aggressively battling for the puck with a Merrimack defenseman, Gould picked the right moment to lift the defender's stick off the puck, replacing it with his own. Gould finished the play by banging it past a shaky Moltenbrey for his 6th goal of the season and a 3-2lead. Union regained its two goal margin with Paul Sullivan picked up his 3rd goal in the last four games. It was a power-play goal at the 19:02 mark of the first period. By the time the period had ended, the Dutchmen had outshot the Warriors 17-7, outscored them 4-2, and had worked the fans into a frenzy. Andy Heinze scored for Merrimack at 4:37 of the second period to narrow the lead to 4-3, but the Dutchmen continued to outhit, outhustle, and outplay the Warriors. At 10:19, the hard work paid off when Scott Manley, a defenseman who carried the puck deep into Merrimack's end and scored his first goal of the year. With the Dutchmen shorthanded, Manley appeared to simply be killing time. From the corner to the left of Moltenbrey, Manley threw the puck toward the goal. In his attempt to clear it, Moltenbrcy put it into his own goal. Was Delventhal surprised at the play of Merrimack, which entered the game 20-5 overall and 10-0 against Division II opponents? \Any time you can score two shorthanded goals in a gam~ you have to be surprised,\ said DelventhaJ, who earned his 1 OOth career victory as a head coach. Nick Baratoff scored with 39 se.conds remaining in the second period for a 6-3 Dutchmen lead. From his own end. Bill Sedergren banked a pass off the boards to spring Baratoff on a breakaway. Baratoff fired the puck past Moltenbrey for his first goal of Continued on page 23

. - lege 1877 Vol. CXVIII~ 'No~ 12 . Scbeaectady, New York IFC Turns Down Delta Ps~i D.elta Youth and · Non-N atio;nal Status Causes of Co-ed''s Rejection By R. REED WHIDD.EN News Editor · Delta Psi Delta was denied membership to th.e · enforce a chapter's constitution. The second reason given was based on the yeuth of the organization. ~· ..J ..J. § en tt. ::r: (.) .. >- .al 0 b .•• a: interfraternity Coq.ncil. IFC met this 1'u~day to address the issue of the co-educational fraternity's. petition to join the council .. Their membership was rejected by an (;)verwhelming. · majority, 14 to 1 (although not all fraternity representatives were present). . . . It seems as though the co-ed fraternity has only recently surlaced. IFC feels its youth may: be detdmental to the body. 'According to Chuck McGavern, president of IFC, the Council believes \the system is unique because it is so old and established, to let such a young and unproven fraternity directly in might jeopardize our stability and our momentum. II McGavern further explained by stating that, \the org.an.iza.tion of the Intet(raternity Council would Waiting i11 limbo; Delta Upsion's house stands enipty. Zoning Board Denies Delta Upsilon A Home · IFC based their decision on two weighty reasoi)s. The first · '\Raucous\ Partying Cited As One Reason \. . • to let such a young and unpr()ven fraternity · directly in might jeopardize our stability and our momentum.\ By ELISE FOODY News Editor not hold a lot of weight with New.s spread quickly the member houses'' if newly · · 1 throughout the campus as well formed fratemhies were granted as the city Qf Schenectady. The immetfiate membership:>.:- •' ··~ .,, : Un~on C~ilege chapter of the of these concemeo itself with. . Ptecedence of the restriction . Delta Upsilon Fraternity was ·Delta Psi Delta's non-national · on \youth\ has been exhibited denied permission to live and status. IFC feels that a national in the cases of Alpha Epsilon host social functions at the can only strengthen a · . Pi and Alpha Phi Alpha. Alpha former American Legion fraternity. Without .a national Epsilon Pi petitioned IFC three headquarters at 740 Union there is really no other body to Continued on page 3 Street. The fraternity recently - . . ' . ' Restore The Nott Committee Takes Issue With Maranville . - . . By KEITH BEMiS and MICHAEL ZELLER Restore The Nott along with students and faculty read the article in last week'.s ' Concordiensis with great dismay that Vice-President Maranville would refute the · report by the National Park Service of the United States Department of the Interior. (This report will be presented to the United States Congress in the ensuing months.) The Nott Memorial is now,. unfortunately, one monumental structure that is at great risk as indicated by its presence on the Priority One List · of Endangered Landmarks. The Department of Interior· has received 111uch information on the Nott Memorial and its present condition. This information includes a copy of the 1986 report by the William Hall Associates Firm of which Maranville referred to, as well as the historic structure report done by the · renowned architectural firm of Mendel, Mesick, & Cohen of Albany, and numerous pictures showing . the stark deterioration of the symbol of Union College - the Nott MemoriaL Maranville stated that ·the · building has not been vacant, but the third fl'oor continues to be unaccessible.·· Also, the building is being ignored by the administration's action of not putting the National Historic Landmark Plaque on · the building, as well as fighting the efforts of the Restore the Nott and other · concerned parties. The administration has not applied golden opportunity lost by the inaction of the administration. Maran ville is wrong in stating that there is no constituency for the N ott Memorial, as is evident by the existence of the Restore the N9tt as well as concern from other prestigious organizations · and persons. This constituency requests that Maranville stop discrediting real experts on the issue of the Nott Memorial Restoration, such as Mr. Mesick and the Department of , the Interior; and begin sincere efforts in restoring the Nott Memorial. purchased the property for $125,000 and planned to allocate another $300,000 for renovations and reconstruction. However, last Wednesday, February 1, the Schenectady Board of Zoning Appeals crushed the fraternity's hopes of implementing these plans. Jack Catanzaro, president of · Delta Upsilon, expressed dismay and disbelief at the ruling. He stated, \because of people's incorrect perception of us as well as all Greeks, they . resort to exaggerated .stories about us, and so have denied us · the use of the ptoperty at 740 Union Street.\ Both The Schenectady Gazette and The Times Union carried articles on the fraternity's setback. Catanzaro was particularly concerned with a remark in one of the articles made by Carolyn Tranter, owner of Gallet Realty on Nott Terrace. In the article, Tranter is quoted as saying \It's a raucous party ... This is unbelievable ... They're raising · the devil.\ Catanzaro maintains that anyone who attended a party hosted by his fraternity could attest to the fact that they were all handled responsibly. In re.spOnse to Tranter's accusation, Catanzaro said, Continued on page 3 February 9, 1989 1987 Union Graduates Reflect National Trend By JENNIFER HOLMES The Career Development Center conducted a survey of the Class ·Of 1987 and compiled a report showing the results. Data was collected in several ways. Firstly, CDC distributed on campus student surveys in May 1987 asking students what their plans were after graduation. Then, the Alumni Office played a role by mailing Re-Union questionnaires in November 1987 and March 1988. Finally, phone calls were made to the Class of 1987 alumni during April and May 1988. Peter Trolio, former Associate Director of the CDC, Andrea Buzasi 88' Career Assistant, and Terrill Bonderoff 88' Career Assistant collected and collated the data for this report. The conclusions are interesting and one can see that Union graduates follow similiar national trends in employment and in furthering studies. Slightly over eighty-six percent of the Class of 1987 responded to ~he survey, two hundred and eighty seven men and one hundred and sixty-two women. The ratio of man to women in this class was about sixty/forty. Sixty-three percent of those who did respond are employed while almost thirty- two percent continued their studies. The largest areas of employment are in the fields of electrical engineering and of finance and banking. Other ' careers include com'putcr science, mechanical engineering, and sales. Following a national trend, most Union graduates who further their studies enter law school. Over thirty-six percent Continued on page 3 · for State Funds as has been . reported by the State Parks and Recreation Office. This was a When one looks at the Nott Memorial it is apparent that the building is in great need of restoration, but it is still possible to see part of the quote that originates from the teachings of Rabbi Tarfon, Mishnah· 15 of the Aboth, Talmud and circumvents the rotunda of the Nott Memorial. The quote reads as such: \The day is short, and the work is much; and the workmen are indolent, but the reward is much and the master of the house is insistent.\ We consider it rather disconcerting that this quote describes the situation at hand. It is true indeed that the restoration of Contlnuad on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: \Mid-terms make my feet swelL\ - , I I. '!

(j Founded ~~oUege 1877 ' Vol. CXVIII, No. 12 IFC Turns Down Delta Psi Delta Youth and Non-National Status Causes of Co-ed's Rejection By R. REED WHiDDEN News Editor Delta Psi Delta was denied :membership to the interfraternity Council. IFC met this Tuesday to address the issue of the co-educational fraterHity's petition to join the council. Their membership was Iejected by an overwhelming :majority, 14 to 1 (although not all fraternity representatives were present). IFC based their decision on two weighty reasons. The first \. . . to let such a young and unproven fraternity directly in might jeopardize our stability and our momentum.\ ()f these concerned itself with Delta Psi Delta's non-national status. IFC feels that a national can only strengthen a fraternity. Without a national there is really no other body to enforce a chapter's constitution. The second reason given was based on the youth of the organization. It seems as though the co-ed fraternity has only recently surfaced. IFC feels its youth may be detrimental to the body. According to Chuck McGavern, president of IFC, the Council believes \the system is unique because it is so old and established, to let such a young and unproven fraternity di,rectly in might jeopardize our stability and Olli momentum.\ McGavern furthe.r explained by stating that, \tlle organization of the Interfraternity Council wollld not hold a lot of weight with the member houses\ if newly formed fraternities were granted immediate membership. . . Precedence of the restricti()ll on \youth\ has been exhibited in the cases of Alpha Epsil()n Pi and Alpha Phi Alpha. Alpha Epsilon Pi petitioned IFC three Continued on page 3 pS:i'Z '' Schenectady, New York CIJ a: I () fu 0 1- 0 ...... --~--.IIU!IIliilill i !!!I.U'iS, _ _ 1.1l'.iilaW!mltBWB lr Waiting in limbo; Delta Upsion's house stands empty. Zon:ing Board Deni:e\s Delta Upsilon A Home \Raucous'' Partying Cited As One Reason By ELISE FOOD¥ News Editor News spread quickly . , throughout the campus as well as the city of Schenectady. The Union CoHege chapter of the Delta Upsilon Fraternity was denied permission to live and host social functions at the former American Legion headquarters at 740 Union Street. The fraternity recently purchased the property for $125,000 and planned to allocate another $30D,OOO for renovations and reconstruction. However, last Wednesday, February 1, the Schenectady Board of Zoning Appeals crushed the fraternity's hopes of implementing these plans. Restore The Nott Committee Takes Issue With Maranville Jack Catanzaro, president of Delta Upsilon, ex.pressed dismay and disbelief at the ruling. He stated, \because of people's incorrect perception of us as weB as all Greeks, they resort to exaggerated stories about us, md so have denied us the use of the property at 740 Union Street.\ .By KEITH BEMIS and MICHAEL ZELLER Restore The Nott along with students and faculty read the article in last week's Concordiensis with great d.ismay that Vice-President Maranville would refute the report by the National Park Service of the United States Department of the Interior. (1'his report will be presented to the United States Congress In This Issue: .. New Freshman Class Representatives · -Page, 3 .. pubUe Speakhtg Review·· ·B·!lfl& 7 -Sports:. Three l:Jnion Athletes Enter ·The Sports. Spotlight in the ensuing months.) Tile Nott Memorial is noV~, unfortunately, one monumental structure that is at great risk as indicated by its presence on tile Priority One List Gf Endangered Landmarks. The Department of Interior has received .nuch information <Jn the Nott Memorial and its present condition. This information includes a copy of the 1986 report by the Willirun Hall Associates Firm of which Maranville referred to, as :well as the historic structure report done by the renowned architectural firm of Mendel, Mesick, & Cohen of Albany, and numerous pictures showi n,g the stark deterioration of the symbol of Union College -the Nott Memorial. golden opportunity lost by the inaction of the administration. Maranville is wrong in stating that there is no constituency for the Nott Memorial, as is evident by the existence of the Restore the Nott as well as concern from other prestigious organizations and persons. This constituency requests that Maranville stop discrediting real experts on the issue of the Nott Memorial Restoration, such as Mr. Mesick and the Department of the Interior, and begin sincl.!re efforts in restoring the Notl Memorial. When one looks at the Nott Memorial it is apparent that the building is in great need of restoration, but it is still possible to see part of the quote that originates from the teachings of Rabbi Tarfon, Mishnah 15 of the Aboth, Talmud and circumvents the rotunda of the Nou Memorial. The quote reads as such: \The day is short, and the work is much; and the workmen are indolent, but the reward is much and the master of the house is insistent.\ We consider it rather disconcerting that this quote describes the Both The Schenectady Gazette and The Times Union carried articles on the fraternity's setback. Catanzaro was particularly concerned with a remark in one of the articles made by Carolyn Tranter, owner of Gallet Realty on Nott Terrace. In the article, 'Tranter is quoted as saying \It's a raucous party ... This is unbelievable ... They're raising the devil.\ Catanzaro maintains that anyone who attended a party ho~tcd by his fraternity could attest to the f:1ct that they were all handled responsibly. In response to Tranter's accus:1tion, Catanzaro said, Continued on !)age 3 situation at hand. It is true .. · . February 9, 1989 1987 Union Graduates Reflect National Trend By JENNIFER HOLMES The Career Development Center conducted a survey of the Class of 1987 and com piled a report showing the results. Data was collected in several ways. Firstly, CDC distributed on campus student surveys in May 1987 asking students what their plans were after graduation. Then, the Alumni Office played a role by mailing Re-Union questionnaires in November 1987 and March 1988. Finally, phone calls were made to the Class of 1987 alumni during April and May 1988. Peter Trolio, former Associate Director of tbe CDC, Andrea Buzasi 88' Career Assistant, and Terrill Bondcroff 88' Career Assistant collected and collated the data for this report. The conclusions arc interesting and one can see that Union graduates follow similiar national trends in employment and in furthering studies. Slightly over eighty-six percent of the Class of 1987 responded to the survey, two hundred and eighty seven men and one hundred and sixty-two women. The ratio of man to women in this class was about sixty/forty. Sixty-three percent of those who did respond arc employed while almost thirty- two percent continued their studies. The largest areas of employment arc in the fields of electrical engineering and of finance and banking. Other careers include computer science, mechanical engineering, and saks. following a natitmal trcnJ, most Union graduate~ whu further their studies en tcr Ia w school. Over thirty-six percent Continued on page 3 . ,,,~~,~· .l:.~At.· Maranville stated that the building has not been vaca11t, but the third floor continues to be unaccessible. Also, the building is being ignored b)' the administration's action of not putting the National Historic Landmark Plaque ()II the building, as well as fighting the efforts of tile Restore the Nott and other concerned parties. The administration has not applied for State Funds as has bee11 reported by the State Parks a11d Recreation Office. This was tt. indeed that the restoration of I, Continued on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: \Mid-terms make my feet swell.\ •

Page 2 CONCORI)lENSlS Fe(Jruary 9, 1989 VOTE. CHECK ONE 050°/o pay raise 050o/o pay raise DSOo/o pay raise . : True Democracy ln Fifty Percent Congressional Pay H'ike? district, and must also ·expend ' funds to get re-~Jected every . · two years. It is quite easy to • . ' see how more money would. . · help ease · this situation. However, when members 'of Congr.ess quote salaries of · professional atbletes as a means of gauging their salaries, and then hike up their own wages, something is wrong~ The funny part is that . because of a bill passed for Congress, tile representa- tives do. not even have to vote for the increa~e; ;it auto- matically gets passed. The :know tbat we have muc;h less influence in making the taws that govern us than we. would like to thillk. Even a letter from every person in a congressman's district would probably' 1 have little effect. The few peopte in Congress who might nave the courage to try and stop so.rnething like. tbis, or at least trim the increase to · one consistent with the . By BRUCE HAY, JR people, that is done 'by · members of th.e Electoral The founding fatbets of our . College and there have been nation were afraid of letting the instances in the past where common man have .a direct say : pr~idents were elected who bad in affairs of the country, that is · iost the popular vote but not why we have a republic, not a · th.e electoral vote. Tile democracy. Americans vote for founding fathers are pr()bably representatives who make all · quite pleased to see how their the decisions, cast all the votes ideals have been carried out; for things like Frozen Food Congress will soon be getting Day, which was, in fact, l • a pay. raise that we can do recorded in The Congressional nothing abollt. Record . The President is not The President of the United even officially elected by the States receives $200,0()0 a By ADAM GONZBERG At the first Cross Talk o( 1989, the conflicting issue of \English only\ laws wa~ discussed. The questions which the panel discussed were: Is America best served with _an <Jfficial language and should schools and government services be bi-lingual? · · The six members of· the panel consisted of different ethnic backgrounds, five were students and one was a professor. The panel began by stating that English was_ already the official language of the United States. They expressed mixed views about the issue of \English only\ laws. These laws state that English would be the only language spoken in the I Do We Need A Bilingual Nation? . : ~orkforce ima in. the schools, with the exception of m<Jdern . language classes. · One student froJn lt;.•y on .the panet·said that the. United States was: the . - . \Meltj!lg Pot\ of the world and that .people should :be. allowed to speak their native .tongue. Those who were anti- ''English only\ believed that the ethnocultural diversity existing in the U.S. would fade and that these people would fear practicing their native tongue. One student from Italy on the panel, said that the ~- GEI YOUR .. = ;; _H. 'AN-·., .... .--DS QKII~: . . ·. • . . . ' . . .... ~~~~~~:> - - . . CON CO ENS IS o· A GET . '.· •' ,•· I / !, I! • • \'. ·, ;, ~ .. _;_., .. · /;- A GRASP -···-····-.m· ..... HE CAMPUS. year, which is not a lot of money considering the responsibility he has, or the po&si'bility ·Of getting shot. However, the President is not the .recipient of the proposed pay raise. With the increase, meoobers of Congress will be rec~iving $135,000, up :from . $89,500. The rationale behind th.e raise is not that u11r.easonable. Members of C011gress usually have to maintain two households, ·one in Washington and one in their · United States was the \melting pot\ of the world and that people should be allowed to - pablic has no say until the next election.. and the representtives have little to lose anyway. Evenif.it is not voted on, the pa~ raise will be , passed. Any congressman ·Can then just not v:ote on this issue, .receive -the new wage, and not have to - worlry at election time since it will be in print that he did not vote for the raise. lt is really disco~l,1lgin~ to. _ school, copying many other oountries around the world. The Cross Talk discussion which continue speaking their nath.;e , ___ .....,........, _____ _ to11gue. They also feel . tha,t witbout change, the u.s.· . would continue to fall behind.· other nations in the tedmological race .. Membe:rs of the discussion b(llieved that English and another language should be enforced as early as elementary · school, · national averages, would end up being blackballed, or meet considetial>le .resistance in getting their issues passed. The Senate, however, has alreE\dy voted, 95 ta- 5, to repeal the raise if members .of Congress let it pass. Maybe enough public outcry will help. In, 1983, a 50% increase was cancelled . due.. to ON'erwhelming.ly negative feeling from the public. lf all els.e fails, what we can do · .. though, is study hard and.ho:pe to get elected, there is no.t another Job. around with pay increases like this. · - 'l.· ... I I;._, .THE ·EcdNOMICS CLUB ·' ,_ I. .Several people supported these laws becaus~ English is Ehe. official languagy of the , l,J.S,:: ~J1dJeJJ ~~F. i;t~9(yigfiers 1 w.isll to live in the.,U.S. they, ~ copying many other eoootxies. ~ .arlOuncl: , tbe:. ~ . i • i .. ~- . ' - ·: ·w@irld. , · · ' · · will be sponso.ring · a lunch table on . Thursdays Feb. 9- 'M' ,, .j,.i.hl9·.· _., ,.;.;.;·,;: .. , • e. ·arv- ' ... ; : ./J ~~-~! jlJ1ili ~l.J : rl sli~>;~~ i ~pe~ .J~pgl;i~Ji.~ . Late~\ .~ tile _ question. o{ whetlier . . ~ . Spanish should be integrated into our society because of the . was led astray several times.. · - didn't lead. t~-· ahy definite mc:reasing numbers of answets,· but iriany· important Hispanics, arose.. The supporters of the \Ehglish opinions V.:et~ ~t~';.. .· , . Oi1Ly•• laws asked: Why, should .The next ·Ctdss Talk, : ''Scamming Roml:lllce: What®· . · Spanish be integrated into otii · Union ,Students: Vvmt?.)• Jwiil be S()clety, instead Of Otbei. lariguages? If the reason is held February 22 at 8 p.m. in because of the number of the College Cen~er Atrium. r~:+x~o, .. 1·£t@G ·nil ·u. in. CC 302 AU ~arle welcome to come meet the club \' I+ ,il .. • :anef-tne department Jac.ulty. :. ...·,.tf·.\lo. people; then would the. U.S. react the same way if another mass of foreigners emigrated? These supporters are not fearful of another language, but are lillwilling to accept foreigners in the workplace because they f<lr:ce a threat to the existing ~---------------~--~----~~------~.-~---~~ · \To a philosopher all news~·~~ it is caiied,. is jobholders. . . Mem ber.s of the discussion believed that English and a11other language should be e11forced as early as elementary gossip ,.and those who edit and re(\d it are qld women over their tea.\ ~ -Henry David Thoreau . We eat piz;c:a, too. It iJolaY sound· silly;but it'!?· a lot of· ·fun so be an old w01nan .and writeJorNews! · · · : C~l~ El;ise ·:x4L,i,1() · · . · :- ·· · , · J~y x4153. or . , :. Becky 374-8984 ,..; r-·----------------- ..... --·----------------~~--------------------------~ LAST CHANCE· • / -• • - • - • - - \-• r ; .. . ., I 1 TO SUBM~IT PAPERS FOR THE. UNION ·coLLE.GE,:. ' - UNDERGRADUATE REVlEW·OF~ THE HUMANITIES AND· SOCIAL ., SCIE-NCES. Deadline is TOMO·RROW _so send pape.rs to BOX. 260. ' ,, -.i ) ·'' .l 'I '' f ·. ~

' '· i l I 'j CONCORDlENSIS Fe..bruary 9, 1989 Page 3 ., * ~,,., ';'W .... -:; •,. 0' < Oovemmenr .. • Report Backs Delta Upsilon Prepare~ ·.For Uphill Housirlg. Battle Continued frQm page 1 Restore The N .. . ·at· ·.t. . / \When neigbbors perceive th~rr :·house. Delta Upsilon is i appealing. both of these charges and hopes to solve the problems within the next three Computer~ Prove Vital To· Union Students . property being violated they . will resort to anything, Committee 1 including drastic lies and , . exaggerations.\ Continued from page 1 On January 20, the fraternity the Nott Memorial would be an • held a cocktail party at their . extreme task and that the time new neuse and invi·ted is running- short for this members of the College faculty historical monument. His also as well as local neighbors. disheartening to see that the those in attendance included . workmen (administration) are various Deans of the College · indeed indolent ( ... disliking or . and President and Mrs: Morris. avoiding L work; idle; lazy\ It was noted however that none Webster's New World of the local residents attended · Dictionary second college the ~ocial gathering. This, edition). 'ff they were: only to · according to, Catanzaro, was think. of the reward to be gained nQ~-only rode on the .part of the from· renov.ating the Nott , neigb.bors, ~ut also implied Memorial, the buUding would . that they wished to keep once again project its majestic believi~g the misleading and· ~ymbolic beauty over the · stereotypes abOut fraternities in Union College' -campus. We genefal. cottld also see reward in that · James Gleason, .president of the building could ·be of Gleason.Funeral Home which influence academically as well is adjacent to the house, stated as socially if measures were that he was \pleased with the taken to have it restored back decision the Zoning Board of to its original intent and • Appeals gave that night.\ purpose. Unfortunately for the . Gleason believed that having administration the \master of ·. the fraternity next door would the house is insistent,'' which be bad for his business because are the efforts taken upon by people would fear having the Restore tb~ Nott and otlu~r · . funeral services disrupted. concerned organizations and .. Catanzaro however stated that individuals. This matter must ''I called Jim Gleason before be taken seriousfy, for the Nott · every party to make sure there Memorial has been the center were no services going on ••. of Union College for the past he .encouraged DU to use the 113 y.~s. and there are, many building.\ people who desire its Nonetheless, the fraternity ~est?tation so tb~\ it~ .m~:y . . has had their. right of as~embl;y ~ontinue to be .the focal pOUlt .. revoked and IS not permxttetho ft>r the ljfetime of :Union ~' J use .the building at all •. nor can College. · · they be zoned as a ·fraternity · ·months. Catanzaro believes ·that if the fraternity regains its housing privileges, ''the building will be enhanced and the_ chapter will be allowed to strive as it has in past years, and the historical nature of the neighborhood will not he adversely affected.\ He mentioned that the College bas been looked upon unfalily through the ruling and that there remains many negative feelings about Union College and Delta Upsilon within the community of Schenectady. \I think Union College is Schenectady's best friend,\ Catanzaro said, and went on to cite several philanthropic endeavors campus fraternities have undertaken in the past. The Union College chapter . of Delta Upsilon is the oldest · in tbe country and Catanzaro ' maintains that without a house · the fraternity won't last more than four years. Be remarked, \as the oldest DU in the couptry, we don't want to go down the tubes because we · can't get a house.\ Members of the fraternity along with their legal counselors are looking forward to overturning the decision. They believe they were judged · . unfakly 1:\fid also believe they have fitai;ie · w:eat stri~es_ ;both academiCally and sociallY since losing their campus housing privileges in 1986. By TRACEY PltYLUCK Word: processing is the • \single most popular use of · · computers for students at · · Union,\ according to a recent draft of the 1'987 ..:92 Long · Range Plan . for Academic Computilig at Union; and more · than half of the word : · .processors used on campus are VAX facilities. But perhaps a more in-depth exploration of the word processing facilities offered at Union is warranted for the remaining 40-45% of Union students wbo do not: use VAX word p17ocessors, as well as tb.ose .students .who still rely on their typewriters, regularly ·exclaiming, \There's got to be an easierway!\ As stated in an earlier · Concordieosis article, IBM . PC's and Apple Macintosh personal computers were installed this summer in · SHllO and SHlOO for campus- ! wide use. While only the IBM :/ CPis .are lo:;tded with the . . WordPerfect software package, : : the Macs have Microsoft Word, · a full-function word processing · progam far the Maclntosb.. . Laser printing is available for . these computers at a cost of · $.15 per page in tlte Steinmetz : Hall Copy Center and regular printing is also available, free · ofcharge. · microcomputer, from any dorm room on campus. A final option is the Computerized Humanities Undergraduate System (CHUC), consisting of two rooms of DEC Rainbow computers located in the basement of the Humanities Building. CHUC II is available 24 hours a day. These computers offer word- processing packages and foreign language programs. The · CHUC fac·ility was developed with the intent of providing word processing and language facilities for students enrolled in courses in the Humanities. While these students take priority in use of ·the CHUC facility, all students who need the nse of word processors are welcome. IFC Motion's. To Amend ConstitutioP. As A Result Of . Catanzaro concluded, \in the past we've done things we sb.ouldn't have and are suffering the consequences for it, bUt now we're in the right and are Another word processing . option is WPS-Plus, now available exclusively on Alvin in the VAX cluster. This package can be accessed through any VAX facility on .· campus. Locations include SH110~ SHlOO, ·Butterfield . 309, Schaffer Library second floor, and Schaffer Library all- night study (first floor).· The VAX cluster cna also be accessed, with the oropet connections and a The Academic Computing Subcouncil (ACS) is currently undertaking the :final revision of \Academic Computing at Union College: a Five Year Plan.\ This plan will serve as the basis for all computer developments at Union in regard to students and faculty for the next five years. The ACS has been cbarged with the responsibility of assessing the needs of the Union College community with regard to computers, and any needs which have not been addressed in the five year plan may not be quickly recognized by the administration. Therefore, it is important that any student who has questions, concerns, or suggestions regarding word processing at Union College, or the computer facilities in general, contact Tracey at 370- 6912, or send these comments to: Box 1748. A forum for addressing computing concerns is ·available, but only if the student body recognizes and reaches out to it. Recent Petition· continued from page 1 years in a row before they·were granted meJiibership. Alpha Phi Alpha existed a· full acadell).ic · year bef~>re they petitioned twice for membership to tlte CounciL With respect to these reasonst there are \motions on · the floor, tabled for discussions Within member houses,\ states \ 'McGavem, to amend IFC's cortstitution. To approach the Council for membership, lFC proposes that a fraternity must be associated with a national. Furthermore, after having informed IFC. a fraternity must wait a full academic year ·before a :probation period of two years minimum. may be granted. After this period a fraternity may petition for membership. This aqdresses the preference of age of a fraternity. Membership ~could only be given to fraternities with an age of at least three years ... exactly where Alpha Epsilon Pi and Alpha Phi AJpha stood when their petitions were finally accepted by IFC. McGavern did comment. however, that \the fact that Delta Psi Delta is co-ed was not a deciding factor.\ ;He added that \IFC did recognize that a co-ed fraternity could have positive effects.on (this) body.\ hoping for a positive outcome. 'We deserve ·something better than this, and we will fight to the bitter end to make the property at 740 Union Street our home.\ Law School Dominates Alumni Post-Graduate Study Continued from page 1 go to law school and nearly twenty-four percent attend medical school. Of those twenty-four percent in the · Class of 1987, only three and a half percent are women: Joanne Tobiessen, director of the , CDC, remarked that ;'there is a ! trend of ·decreasing medical school applications and this is reflected at Union from this report;\ A smaller percentage enter engineering; business or health graduate schools. The report continues and gives a list of where exactly the graduates are employed by field. For example, \a female electrical engineering major is junior engineer at Central Hudson Gas & Electric.\ Then the report also lists graduate schools by the field of study. The report also shows the career field of the graduate by his or her major. These results reassure that Ul1ion graduates of 1987, reflect national trends of graduates of t>ther schools. Congratulations! to the Freshman Re resentatives of Student Forum Jon Lennon President Aaron Fuchs Vice-President Andrea Rogers Secretary Treasure·r ., I ., I I ' '. ~' II

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS_ Felir:llar:f.·9, .1989 FEATU-RE ARTICLES ------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------· The Health . and Fitness Colu-mn Farrakhari: At RIT By JACQUELINE RANDALL Dear Health and Fitness Editor, I drink about four cups of coffee ()r diet coke. a day. I know they each contain .high levels 'Of caffeine but. my questioa is: \how does ·this affect my body?\ Many people drink coffee because it contains the mind alteri,ng .drug caffeine. Caffeine keeps us: up during finals week, wakes us up in the ·morning, but S()metimes keeps us from s1eevin:g at night. Latent sourcesofcaffeine are found in many products su<>h as softdrink.s, · tea; ·cocoa ·an:d chocolate. The caffeine in coffee, tea or softdrinks is absorbed immedi.atdy by your body. As a result, your blood levels peak just llaJf an hour after consilmption and lasts up to three a.nd a half h\ours. Tile caffein~ first stimulates the brain 'W llich regulates your heart rate, respiration rate and musc11lar coordination. This stima'lation of the central- nervous system then produces the .caffeine induced \coffee jidders.\ You now begin to feel hyperactive as your basal metaoolic rate increases and the By NADIA DUYI.LAlRE creating quHe a spec-tacle. Yes, . history; of how out African and NATALIE BENNETT the foJlowers ofFan-akhanwere ancestors were more civilized decked out for the occasion; to than the history books would On Satm:day, February 4, heartheprophetspeak.. hav¢-l:lS believe. It is through seven students from Union 1f he is nothing else, he is the work of our ancestors that went to Rochester institute of certainly articulate. \Teach th.e foundations of Technology to hear Minister teachn, were words we heard mathematics,. science and Louis Farrakhan, head of the constantly through his 2-hour technology, and indeed Nation of Islam, prophet of message on everything: from civilization. The manner in Elijah Muhammad, a leader of education, to the names that which history has been telateQ. the Black people, speak. For Blacks were given {\What kind mal,ces it all the more difficult most of us, it was the first qf name is Roundtree'?\) 1 to the to digest the fact that the first time we had ever come close present dilemna in the Black Man imd Woman on this Earth enough to seeing someone communiW as to whether we were :Black. Indeed, all other whose every move has. been should be referred to as African- ·races descended from. Minister clockecd: for the last five years, Americans. In response to the Farrakhan then p:toceeded. to and we certainly were not latter, he was quite set in his educate his audience on the going to give up now. attitude,\WewereBlackb\efore phenomenon of M~nd~lian number of calories burned also Through botnb threats, long we were called Colored, Genetics. T:he overaJl pf,incipli.f; rises. Yet, as th¢ caffeine waits, snow and cold_, long Negroes and then niggers.. Black ·is domin-ant, Wllite is increases your metabolic rate, lines and intensely person.al Besides,. wh'o named us and recessive when lo9king at . it in tum, triggers the release searches, we persevered. who named Africa?'' . worlfl; population. T~e t.eality of insulin which produces . · Finally, three hours behind . Where the Greek societies are · tha.~a· Bhick C()uple could .give feelings of hunger caused by h d 1 · 10 00 - b · d. 1:. ~1 1 d · · birth to a blond~haii blue-eyed sc e u e, · .·.: p.m. to e · con.ceme., 11e Ca:.t e .· on,umty . . the rapid drop in bloml sugar e?\act he W?U;:ed onto the a:'Jlong th~Jll. ·He questioned child is astounding ... buttrue. level~. . · stag.e. Respl~ndent-· in.,. a _why ti:tey identify .. thenisei~es ,~ On:the.subject of women. he ~affeine also affects· your.. bea'Qtiful~r 7 cut; .suit o( ste~t ~- ~Hh t9e$~ le~,f~rs. :~'.L¢f~rf/(by · 'ca\}.tio!ted people of all faith to . body by\ relaxing the muscles· grey • he stood out among his - tfi:emselves .mean nethmg.;· It's . '~·\Jate into consideration how of the respiratory system and daTk-suited entourage of when you put them together women are treated. The firct digestive tract. Your kidneys bodyguards and th,eJr th;:tt yqu mak~ a word, put tliat it is~ w.ome.n who ·gave become relaxed and liquids are bodyguards. Down in f-ront·.of those words together: and make birth to humanity, mu~t. not be releas-ed from your body more the stage, yet another line Df a paragraph~ .w~en \)'QU pu~ . . forgotten, and he\(: role must readily. Therefore, caffeine is a dark-clad young men wit:h thosy paragraphs togethe:r,-~eP,. not be diminished lo that of a diuretic and has a dehydrating expressionless faces stood you tell U:te story.\ . mere s.exual ·~l?ject. We must effect on your body. while the sister of the nation And telling the StOJ\Y wash~~ not he judged by o.ur-. vita) Small dosages of caffeine milled around, clad in white pm;pose that ·nigbt. :ije told(;>{ statistics bqt ra~her. QY 01.1r' have a positive impact on the silk veils\ .an4 \gowns,. and how we were roJ)bed of Qui' intelligeJ1¢e:\an4:.th~ co#ienti qf~ body -by\_ the capacity · , · our ~haraoter:· After an; tne .- fQr: ID~Scle ::work,.., It; alSo.• ;. . \ ' ·. ,-. ,,. . . . · .. \' ... , , ~ :' , .; ·_. , . woman e~erts II}Ore.j.nftueoce, increases tHe speed and skill. i~ -· \ .......... , ·· · ''' 1 \' 1 ~ .... t..-: \· 1 · '·~·t.. ';;. ·ih ·-~~'ld .!if· ,,., un:· ~,,, • . \\\ , , , ,. · • • . • • r . ·-. , ~ :. • Oil;- ,~ q,J,l, .. ,. .~9;'-!;J!Sn:SJ.!.,C · \ manual ta~k~. It produces pressur.e and blpod .Q.bole$terol. body. tefupetaiilie;, and' i:ims,:if- way snll~\is ,jtfeal:'~dg::, • . ', clearer thou,ght ·an'ct , an It hal'· ,b.eeil t9ufict'· th~t shdilld'be'a~oi<fe'd·~h~tl~x~ir'i!e'· irlflV~fi~~~ 1 lhe':w~y ~{4-~~i.rl~~ appr.eciation for sensory extensively .high·· levels of sick aQ.d have a high· fevef. perceiyes societY.\·· · · · · ·: stiniali. It can make you react caffeine cause c-ancerliK:e Caffeirii ·tends· 'io ·· caus·e · Tbfs art~cle could go on·: faster in certain s~tuations. iri · changes in certain body cells. headaches for some, but· for· . forever:; hut we re not going to, : fact, after two crips 'of C9ffee, . Yet. small doses of caffeine . others it seems tc, relieve 'tliem. . drie~·O:fci lack - of time. In . driving skills syerri.to itriprove. seem to protect against cancer, Lastiy, caff_eine ·promotes ·, synopSis, we found that it is and :some typists .type fa.ster Caffeine has beeH showii ·to anxiety attacks.· · ' · nece'~sky that one ·listens to and-make fewer· :errors. T!uis, interfere with · · norma,l · · · · · him ~ftli an open mind and not caffeine 'cao· be -us'efulin· ·smrul ' reproduction an(f thus cause· : So. ... to break the , caffeine · to pre. jpdge him based on what · 1 ·1· r· ' • ' . · b · th. d f t · Th · < h -· . kick, just slow down. Caffeine , ' · eves o consumption. If ·. e ec s. · · IS · · as . d . . . the·.~e.aia p· orttay· s him_ :t 0 b_·_e. ··'~' · · · · h d h h · ·· · is not a dictive,. it 'is . habit· . . o Too much caf:teirte has the appene w en t e woman Hej~~ elpquent spe_aRer and drawback of. causing consumed morethaitcightcups . forming-and your body adap.t,s is_. certain-lY: one' ~f. our irritability. It is a drug. and bas of coffee a day during her· · to its use to some extent. Use ·· · · · d' · - 1 · · · it.in modera6.on; . _ · outsta:~ tn:g 'B ack .leaders of side effects. Some studies show pregnancy period. Caffefne also this er~:: Needles.s Jo sa~,. 'an!-11 , . that large dosages of caffeine causes digestive disorders and Please direct your questions. am sllr~ that· some people will . are linked to heart disease induces heartburn. In addition, and comments to . the Health agree with us t.llat be is because caffeine increases blood it has the ability to raise your and Fitness Editor~ Box 1993. definitely, worth listening to. ' ': • I •., 1 1 • - '\ . -. .. ' ' Are· You An Alc:():k01ltf2' Hy LISA CH£RANDE Joe is a student at Union. Like the rest of us he takes _ three courses three times. a week .(though lately he does not atteiJd them three times a week), lifts weights at the gym, .anct attynds parpes foqr nights a week. Weekends start earl:y for Joe. He begi~s drinki1lg at about.three in- the afternoon on Friday and does not stop q.ntil\tlte wee hours on Sat111clay night (at whi~h ppin~. he is f~ling \really good\). On· Stmda.y, he spends m9st of the day recovering from the events of tile past weekend that he no ,longer remembers. Joe enjoys Union College, ·bui ··lie is\ · fin.<Ling ·,hJmseL(w~. slipJ;ii1g-·_,~ grades and on academic waroing. He misses maJ?,y, of h1sdasses andhis performance .. in \sports is 1101 what it used to be. This ·patt-ern\ c·oniinues for three years uri tiL.. One day Joe is at a fraternity ga.rty ,. )Vll~t!ng ~t th~ bar fof another beer. when he suddenly reatizes that, he has spent every · weekend in ~e past three years the s'aine·way; He is disgusted'. with himself~ and blames mucb pf..hj~ ,pQOf academic. and athletic performance on hts use of alcohol. He puts down the plastic cup, and leaves the party fot the first time in a dear state of mind. The next day he · decide·s .. :to· check\ out ~a local · · Albqh;oH~~ ,:i:. An\i!tyinous meeting. He discovers that the ,following symptoms are signs .o(. the beginning of an· alcoh.olic problem: · .. 0 Using .aJ;c~h'ol be.cadse :you have p'rcihieins or to . cope with difficult situations. 0 Dtinking._ ,more Qften, consuming large:t amounts,. or both. o :Hiding tpe ~ounts of . alcohol_· you '·drink ·from others, dtin:king .. alone or with stnu,tgyn; .. · \Gulping drinks or switching to mor-e \potent\ drinks to· get the effect more quickly: ~ 0 Getting annoyed when;. others comment on how mucfi you fu:ink. \ t'L\ ~ .:': .\\ ' . ' ' 1 ; . ' ' ; ~~ : . - :) .. ' • I • 1 ' . ~ , ' 0 Being.U.ncomfottable when serious problem. With his new · atcoh'olis rt'Qt\a.vailabk~J\· · · · perspeetive on.alcoholistn,_ Joe : 0 Thinking it's cool or feels better about his academic . sopbisticateil to \hold yollr a1_1d social life ~t college. His liquor'' or to \drink your grades ati.d nis athletiC i friends under the table''. performance ~V.e -~proved. He °Feelirtg :guilty about your ~so fincls.·~t·,~h_e:::is able to! drinking. .-.. \ . ~n,jQy ,_t1is weekends mote now ~ 0 Drinking more tli@' y<iiu mat-ibe':'c@.\'.remember what be; 1 ed dla dUting.'\iliem. Joe is now ; ~Ba:om\inJi.a~dif(etetil able to stop drinking .after one~ when drinking; ·· · ' '· ·\ or two drinks. . 0 Blacko\ ts ... Are you. a \Jpe_ 'student\? If i,· . . u • ; . . . . . °Frequent int6iiduion. · . you':feM inat,you share one or 1 0 Drinki~S ~Is;ou~ ..... ~~ ,f~~~ ... ~~rr. of th~ abo~e ~Y~PtO.IJlS. ~ .normal: .. '···'<~ , .. ' . . ,.;'i~? ·p}e,a~p seek'{~~@~.all',tb~.,;.\Q-ruoni . At the meeting Joe decides College Counseling _CeJite:r ot ~ ~at he is not an alcQ~?lirJ~l\\t , ,i;·$qe_ +lcqJ1?,~~m Council of · t~at his use of aloch~ t)?.e:,pa\St. ··:;-;1Sche~e~t~~Y~::~·£ou~ty at 434 few years could very well\have· State Stteet•m· Schenectady. been :the breeding- of' a more Don't wait until it's·te-o· iateL

By KRISTIE ARNHOLD Have you noticed lately that the male companion in your life has been insensitive, preoccupied, mote con:ceriJed with the score of the last hockey game than with the 20 p·ounds you just looSt? Un:fOiitnnately, it is probably not just a passing phase; men are incapable of change - or a~ least any change suggested by their fema,le counte:tparts .. Suggesting that a man be· a ''bit more romantic\ is as earth shattering a statement as \you have abaldspbt.\ Men find the mere thought of romanticism an encroa(!hment on their masculinity. Roses, candlelight CONCORDIENSJS. February 9, 1989 FEATURE ARTICLES • t 'l··.:n··_. __ .··•·e .. _·._·r.- ,: :' •• 1 ' ·-· ' ••• • '; : ' • >. • • dinners,. and little surprises seem trivial and meaningless to the male psyche. To illustrate just. how out of touch the average college man is with romanticism: I was driving down a road with a cert;ain male (I won't mention any names) when I spotted a sign that read; ~- .. ROSES $6 A DOZEN.\ \Wow ,,, I exclaimed. He ' . casualty looked at me and replied, ,;Is that a good price for roses?\ Any .of you who are saying the same thing upon . rea@lg this have obviously not purchased roses in the last twenty years at any sort o~ reputable floral establishment. 1 was mildlY appalled, but.after considering the source, I decided that it was better to . ' remain calm. Men will always react violently to the mention of ·change, particularly if it has to do with being romantic. Women, on the other hand, will always adore flowers, dinner, and romance. What will happen, you ask? Women will inevitably discover a weapon worthy of men's. romantic gestures, and flowers wiH become a nightly prop in college donn rooms, or perhaps they have discovered a weapon already? It is not the object of thi~ brief article to criticize men; Women are extremely demanding creatures and romanticism might be the one thing that is just too much to ues ask of a man. Men are often more toleran:t than they are give:o credit for being. Almost every woman is moody; mood swings can range frem ~, extremely euphoric moments - to sudden 'blubbering outbursts. A weman expects that a man should know why she is upset, even when she has not told him, and when there is probably not even a reason for her .sobbing. This scenar1o would confuse even the most sensitive, patient man .. It is a wonder that men consider living near women at all. Most men have conveniently learned to attribute these mood swigs to certain monthly occurrences. As much as it angers women, men are right. Men allow us to Page 5 use it as an excuse because of the sheer fact that they are very glad that it does not happen to them. Men: and women co-exist somewhat happily. Men tolerate women because they succumb to a hidden weapon, and they are happy that they are not wumen. Women tokrate men because they cannot stand to be with other grouchy women all of the time. It is a simple philosophy, but if any of you have found this offensive, go out and do sometlling romantic for your rnate {Valentine's Day is next week - J:IINT HIN1) and prove me wrong. Women: try to contr()l those PMS catalyzed outbursts - at least until after February 14th. To Be Or Not To.Be A Throat? ·By SUZANNE SHA~ER · Features Editor To be or not to 'be a THROAT? \Yes that is the question. :wen are you or aren't you? How throaty must one be in order to be· considered a dieha±d ·~throat? 'There are vatl6gis·a.egr&sBr·thiOO:te<Iriess;· but wlien' is to n.iuch;: tot) much1 A throat to you iD.ay not be a throat to me. I bet you think I'm talking gra9es, library lovers and profe~sors' pets. wen -you're righ't .but you're also wrong and ,JlOW you're probably confused ·as well. ·. The Original Throa( was a simple boring student whose life revolved around the ~ple boring task of stud,ying. An obsession with grades and an over-conscientious attitude plagued our patl,letic throat. Today the tenn has extended to all aspects of college life. Our original one dimensional tlrroat has become multi-faceted. similar to a nllt'rored disco ball, his/her throatedness reflects all elements of life. Competiti:on: the core of his/her soul~ . is easily steered in . any or all directions. In fact\ the inost serious throat may involve him or herself in a number Qf competitive activities all at the same time; Just look around. Everywhere yen shall see Union students engaging in . ' .. .THE throat.:.centered activities. First there is the Sunday Night ~ovie Throat, who arrives a half an hour before the ·film is to begin, antiCipating the Sunday night crowd in order to get the very best seat in the house. No time even for a quick cup of coffee. Instead the movie throat patiently stands outs~de:. the. C~llege Center · auditi,lrium doors plotting his. · seat strategy. The Shower Throat, our friendly throat who sets his/her alarm clock a fuJi two hours befo),\e class while the. rest of us are still drooling on our pillows. God forbid the shower queen or king (in most cases this person is a female) sltould once in·a blue moon have to wait four a11d a half minutes like the rest of us. The Skellar Throat, he who eats lunch at l1:30 and dinner at 4:30 (in Spain they are just ending Stesta at this time) and never has to wait more than two minutes to place an order or more than five for his food to arrive. _The Dutch Hollow Throat, this actually pertains . really <lnly to those of us who ate hooked on muffins (especially bran). The D.H. Throat always manages to beat the mid-morning, ill between classes (I think they call it gel- time) rush. Without fail they always getthe raisin filled bran muffins before they· disappear or tum stale. BOTTOM LINE· Topic To Be Announced Sunday, 9·:00-10:00 p.~. ' 89./1 WB·UC \ ......... ..__ These .are only ,a handful of the most common college throats seen on this campus. Don't worry though; :there are plenty more of them just swarming all over the place. Their numbers are growing and the areas of throatedness are constantly expanding. Don't ever be fooled by a throat; they are very clever, organized people. All throats share a few common threa'ds, lhey don't like to wait, they know exactly where the crowds will be and when they will be there. And yes tbey are always one step ahead of the rest of us. Attention Sophomores? i By STEVK KUSIAK Need a SCHOLARSHIP to pay for that outrageous increase . in tUition? Tired of the same · boring summer job? You can . · attend Cadet :Basic Camp for six weeks this summer with no obligation .to the Army and have a chance to win a scholarship. Last summer over 300 two- year scholarships were awarded, and I won one. Benefits of the · scholarship· include, payment of 80% tuitien, allowance for books, suJ)pHes and equipment · and a subsistence allowance of · $100.00 a month. Some of the expert training cadets receive is Land Navigation, First Aid, Nuclear, Biological, Chemical, Weapons Training, Rappelling, Stream Crossing, Water Survival, Confidence Course, and of course, rigorous physical training . Scholarship selection is based on camp performance, .academic achievement and potential and demonstrated leadership ability. Basic Camp is designed for the college. level man and woman to better acquaint them with the Army. The emphasis of instruction at basic camp is to develop the college student into a leader who will take charge of a job or situation, and complete or solve the mission, with . successful results. COMING SOON It was an adventurous, and challenging experience being in direct competition with peers from ·Colleges and universities all over the nation. I learned how to take charge of people, and I also learned what it takes to be a good follower. Most of all, I learned about my personal strengths and weaknesses, and was able to identify with and correct them in actual leadership situations. CUlTently we have fourteen students enrolled in the Army ROTC program. Presently ,five students hold scholarships with four more expected recipients this year. For more information, call Stan Dobert, 386-4310. . . ·• '89 IS THER,E LI:FE AFTER U·NION? SENIOR GIFT DRIVE K:ICK-OFF RECEPTION FEB. 15,. 7-9 PM If you ·would like more information on attendt(lg the kick.-off · ·reception or volunteering for '89. Contact Judy Bruhn '89, Kevin lrland '89, Ilana Klein '89, EUen Rosner '89, Josh Waldman ·ag Co-Chairmen or Erika Rauscher '88 in Lamont House x6175 . ·, ' ;, . ' '\ . ' ll t t. .\, i.' I' I I· i ~ ! il ... ,\ 1,1 I ~ I '! ' .I ' ·'

Page fi CONCORDIENSIS Februa.ry 9, 19'89 FEATURE ARTICLES By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor My observatiq~s began one day, late in the fan term of 1988. Our final class meeting of Ecology was to be treated to a visit to the Nott. That day the sun was shining brightly, the weather was characteristic of an early fall day, and the campus bustled with the relief and the anxiety associated with the last days of the term. My thoughts were clear and I was relatively .. content. Security, who was to open the padlock tht keeps we misc~ievous students out, was not there. A kind professor who inhabits the second floor (I've since forgotten his name) opened the lock and we proceeded into the condemned section of the buildJ11g. l was first impressed \With the - expansiveness of tll~ top floor, the structural be.arn s ·that strained to support tb:e huge dome. Professor G(or,ge began to ·explain the structural symbolism of the :f:i\Ve pointed stars, the spectrum of colors that represented kn~91le<ige and truth. Then our eyes foc11sed on the immense hole i11 the peak of the dome. Wateicdrops from rainy days stained tlte floor below the hole. Wate;r <lamage was extensive. 11Je iron staircase that runs UIJ .the wall to the base of the d!Qme was corroded . and ric:lety. The plywood floor was weak and warped. Old props inom plays past lay sadly in piles. I could sense ·the emotion 10f every student in the buildirg and I'm positive that they would agree; waste, abuse, careless, ashamed, stunned.. I was angry. How could this be allowed to happen. A friend of mine and myself looked at each other ~n disbelief as if to say, \What were they thinking, what has happened here?\ So later in that day we sat in Carnegie, angry for what the school administration .had allowed. We looked at the plaster walls of the new Student Center angry at the lack of taste, disgusted at the abuse of tradition and pride, class and dignity. I'll move on. Today I was flipping throqgh' some of the old Garnets, on¢ of which was from 1955. This is where my disgust for the abuse of tradition and the ignorance of the administration .was solidified. Some of the first pages were dedicated to the traditions of Union; the Union Catalog of 1805, the -Centennial of 1875 and its Secret Societies, now our f:ratemities, and the Chow- Chow (the predecessor to the Garnet). Each item was imbedded with tradition, symoblism, and truth. Further into the book came a section called.\Campus Views.\ In this section are pictures of the Nott It was majestically iliimioated. Light crept from the smallest ·· of 'windows on the highest ·· floor. It was then the library, it was then in use. Tum the page and I found a picture of the nonexistent Washburn Hall. This was -the predecessor to the library. It was torn down. In the provided picture one can see the elegance of the structure. Its age and grace astonished TilE DEPARTMENt' OF .ENGLISH invites the subm~ssion of\ entries in the following·. writing competitions. Deadline for submission is WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1989 (first week of spring term.) 1. The ALLEN ESSAY PRIZE: awarded to a senior in any department for a non-fiction essay. 2. ACADEMY OF AMERICAN POETS PRIZE: an annual award, sponsored by the Academy, for the best- poem by a Union u ndergradt,Jate. 3. THE VAN 'oRDEN PRIZE: for fresm men (any department) excelling in English composition. 4. THE YUDIS PRIZE: for prose ficiton. Fuller announcements, including directio11s for submission, will be posted on campus. Sutdents with questions sho.uld visit or call Professors Bonney MacDonald or Alan Nelson in the Departr11ent of English. '. me. 1 simply could not see the rational behind tearing it down. On the .opposing page are pictures of AltJ.Inni Gym.· Then tbe front steps were front .steps:, the walls of the building were solidly covered with ivy,. and large elms graced its facade. All the pictures of the halls, be it Bailey, the general engineering building, or the chemistry bui.ldin,g _ were coveted from. wall to wall with 'ivy. The laJ:ge elms graced the entire campus. But with the elms went some of that class, some of the tradition and likely a great deal of pride. houses anywhere in the United States. So on the last page of the Greek section of the yearbook was a quote. It reads: \Ever ~ihanging yet essentially tlte same.\ I can no longer agree. It seems as if the battle h{!tween _what the administration can afford, and what the stupents and faculty desire are on a diverging street. It is equally obvious that the preservation of tradition has too high a price tag on it for the administration to buy. So the next time a tour comes striding th;rough the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. and the gllidy points out . 't~e Cabaret. sign tllat glows with traditioll. you ca,n think to yom:selfof that empty spaee in the dome of the Nott, of the dilution of the fraternal system, of the ste,tility of the campus dorms,. and of the drowned tradition and symbolism behind the plaster walls in which you sit rea~g this appeal. From the 196.9 Idol, an exeri>t from a poem by Peter Feldstein, As a Greek I was naturally interestoo in the houses that fraternities occupied. The KA house looked similar to the President's home, D Phi's house projected the strength and clarity of the Corinthian columns tllat gave support to the house and the brotherhood, Psi U's house, one which has withstood some ·of the testS of time~ graced the inner grounds of the campus, DU's house, now Lamont House (which to most is some use~ess buildillg past Psi U' completed tbe street's rich fraternity existence, Come winter: the frozen AD's house, perl),aps the be~t ground, a :wind that strafes you, example of what th<:? campus' frays your·back - · fraternal aura. was all about; AndsnO..w,God's death .. white still stands as a reminder of the · pall, surges to crush the brittle past. A couple, pages further . frame. · . 'and I saw the old 'D Chi. It wa.s ·. A staff Df wheat 1i ves uut a ' i ~ ' located up in the GE ;plot. Th(1 year: comes . the winter., ~d photo speaks for itself; elegant! you, The. old. Sig Chi, .also among · ~ each in time, must bear l · those in the GE ·plot would . the cross. · - · · ' enhance the richest bloc~' ()f ·- ' .j • '- ' ' -A ·PlATE-FULL OF ·Q.UES11()NS ''WHAT'S WRON··G .·WITH 'COMFORTABLY NUM_B'?\ · Informal Participatory Discussion Series Tues. Feb.. 14th at 11 :45 ·in 4th froor · lounge, College Center. No Experience Necessary. Bring Your Lunch. Co-sponsored by: Campus Protestant Ministry and Delta Psi D.eua

I • (: CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 Page 7 FE.ATURE- ARTICLES Think Fast And Sp&ak Cearly :&y EILEEN SWEENEY a11«l KA TIIY ({URTZ N~,be, just maybe Union stud.e11ts aren't C<lfnpletely apatl\etic after all. 1'he place-- UpJ>e:r:class Dining Hall. The time·- :Friday night at 8 p.m. Tll.e ev<~nt-- the fourth annual l?llblic SJJeaking Competition. It W<l1.114 h:ave been difficult to fit [l)IJ more. people in to hear thesllow.Every chair was full; pe<Jpl.e :were standing anywhere aad e:verywhere they coulci--. on talJles,.()tlwindow Iedges •. etc •.. After ~ slightly delayed but halllo~{Jus~ introdu-ction by ScMt Davds (including- a story · ab!)ul the· Poster God from Mou11t ;;X~rox}, .. Jen Iizo explme<l the rules._Each of the 11 c()nte:stants pi9ked a random quote, had thirty seconds to tllink about it, and then spoke for thrf.le minutes. Judging was basoedun coherenc~. creativity. suJ)SW1ce and delivery. Wef()und the majority of the quotes to be somewhat serious, restilti:ng in fairly seriou,g 3- minllte speeches. Phil Zaccheo, ast:he \lucky\ flrst competitor, hacJ, \It is sometimes ...wise to forget who you are,\ as his q11ot~. He hit .home with cGrnrnents about the homeless aiJd . .()thers less fortunate than ourselves. 'Iim Mathews 1 Sf!Dke n~xt on . \R~t~ · Y~~l lh}r~, ~r' i~: ~~r. ~u!~ : y<Ju \ Approac;~_ng; the. ~PW . b-y removing his sportcoat WJ.d s:us~tulers, he lay on the floor a11d spoke of overco!liing child!I(}()d nightmares only_ to ~ -~ . Hever Fall lri;-: l1ve Witlt Your First Draft ~ , . ., __ . , -- -- kn· . . . · ~~OVE:J ~f~ . reeL / e1 ./ V1o/ets <!lr€. • .. • I ( USG.JC}/~ putpleJ , 'ir Whtfe: (I c;J-i,l)/:. ).1 ------~---.1 IHE WilliNG CENTER discover .U.at there are things in today's adult society that he cannot control. While bringing humor into .his. delivery, one could sense ,an underlying seriousness to his_comments. The third speaker was Andrew Livernois who spoke on ·\HoPe iS a good .breakfast, but a bad supper.\-Thou:gh a little short of his three minutes time, his point about needing action to accomplish hope'.s goals was wdl taken. \Every white will have its black: every sweet will have its so~. If was the quote Michelle Maratto encountered. S:he was very coherent in her ideas that to:da,y's generation has too how easy it is. for us to express feelings of hatred, but stressed the point that we are very cautious to display feelings of love, It is easier to hurt others than to take the risk of being hurt ourselves. Without seeltling to quite understand why, Saab Lee brought ,the audience to laughter as he read his quote, \Do not remove a fly from your friend's forehead with a hatchet,\ and promptly ·asked, \What's a hatchet?\ He then proceeded to speak on the uncertainty of life, which though true, was not related to his quote. stud~nts ask at this time of yeu, \Why does winter here have tl) be so bad?\ Complete with tuxedo, Josh Wald.nun entered the .scene. to .speak: on \A real gentleman is at a !lig disadvantage these days.·\ His humorous, yet tactful, ;commentary on the party scenario of having a couple of drinks and offering to walk .11 girl home but leaving her immediately after safe delivery to her donn, fit hts quote well and left the audience smiling, Steve Cole was the final competitor and discussed \Pleas11re is a sin; and someti.mes sin is a pleasure.\ He included instances which suppGrted this. idea. During an intermission, while the scores were bing tab1dated, the Garnet Minslrelles performed· several songs including \Somewhere Over the Rainbow\ and \Fire\. They sounded great and were a pl~sant way to spend the time waiting for the results. After a brief skit involving an incognito Dean Mammola, · the winners were announced. A $75 gift certificate at the bQokstore went to Lisa Wachter for 3rd place; $125 was the 2nd place prize awarded to Jan Berlage., and the 1st place amountof $175 and the Melvin Zimmer Award for Excellence in Public Speaking went to Josh Waldman. All in all, if you think about it, it's not a bad way for the winner to earn $17 5 in three minutes. But more importantly, it was a couple of hours during which the approximately 400 spectators could get together, have some fun, and show their support for . fellow students. · ininy e,asy-ways-out-. from things, ·too many ways to avoid permanence. She used abortion and . divorce as examples to stress this point. Though straining somewhat to make- them fit the quote, it would be difficult to disagree with her. Deborah Atwood also emphasized the importance of trying, rather than just wishing, as she spoke about \Those who refuse to attempt the absurd will never achieve the impossible.\ She recovered from an extended pause quite nicely with the quip, \Everything's absurd, being up here is absurd.'' Lisa Wachter took the approach of presenting the pros and cons of her quote, \Interruptions are the spice of life.'' Using- a \Dean's vacation\ as a negative interruption of one's college career, and President Morris' standing up to say that she did the best in the co~petition as a hypothe,tica:l positive interruption,. she appealed to the audience's sense of humor. BE IN PRINT A mother influence was shown as Matteo Coveri- Abllondio took the floor and admitted that his mother told him to compete as a distraction from being a victim to the campus cold tllat is traveling around. His quote, \He who COnceals his 1 disease ClU}DOt be cured,\/ . was relevant, and Matteo took it to heart as he asked the audience for chicken souJ> and Tylenol. He also asked the question all Union W()u.ld you like to have your friends and · experiences in the 1989 yearbook? 'k'-qilhre tliai deserve's 'indre · tlian,1hi-~~, iriih~fes. was handled w'en ·by Jan Berlage. Commenting on \We take more Clll'e to conceal our love than our hate,'; Jan ex.pressed Submit your photographs to the Garnet . Yearbook. Terms Abro2rd people submit picturies of your adventures! All pictures can be returned by placing y()ur name and address on the back of tlLe prints. Be a part of histery! Submit your work! C on1mencen1ent is on!}/ a short tirne avvO)l .. and it is not1oo s'oon to -consider speaking at it. In a fe\Al vveeks: the Con1mencement ' , Cc)nlnlitt,ee vvlU begin accepting speeches l-4-pages (abou15 tT1in.) 1n length. The topic is yours to choose. Read Concordiensis fot' further information. EASEMENT OF HUMANITIES WORDPROCESSING AND WORDPERFECT CLASSES UmRIN11N G FOR. l C~PY D[)f MATRIX FOR lliTIPLE COFIES FREE!!! Garnet VALENTINE'S DAY CANDY- GRAMS SPONSORED BY AE Pi and·· DG $1 each. On sale at •- the Coll~ge Center Feb. 2 through Valentine's Daym Proceeds wiH go to a local Foundation for the Blind. I I

. Page 8 CONCORJJlENSIS Februar';' 9, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES '' ,_, CAN. H:ELP ARMENIA! Stu,dents, , Clubs, Organizations and Faculty Money Armenia. Interested in Helping Collect to Rebuild a Scb,ool · Contact • ID Anthee at 374-3833. These are the official allocations of money and aid to the Ar1nenian -cause in accordance to th.e last report -of the UNDROP.. (United Nations Disaster Release Organization). The German Club announces the showing of -REIFEZEUGNIS On feb. 13 at 7:30 pm at the College Center Room 406. One of the best films in the famous detective series \Tatort.\ Sina a 17- year-old high school student falls in love with her teacher. They meet secretly until one day they are found out by ? classmate, Michael who is in love with Sina, and all kinds of complications ensue. Directed by Wolfgang Peterson; starring Natassja Kinski, Klaus Schwarzkopf, Christian Quadflieg. ALGERIA: RESCUE TEAMS (3 RELIEF FLIGHTS·). X/ 1,000,000 - AUSTRAL LA: CASH THROUGH L.RCS 434,782 CASH, 2 REL)EF FLIGH'TS WitH RESCUE TEAMS 4S3. 1 333 2 RELIEF FLIGf,\TS WITH REDCROSS ·AND - PUSTRIR: ~ BELGIUM: ME DEC INS SANS FHONTI ERES -XIBULGAR !'A: RELIEF FLIGHTS WITH RESCUE TEAMS - CANADA: CASH, RELIEF SUPPL I E.S RND TRANSPORT -X/CHILE: CASH ~X/cH:NA 1=. R.OF: FDOP AND CLD!HING THROUGH REDCRoss -X/CUBA: RELIEF FLIBHT -X/CY!=·RUS: REliEF SUI=•~C·LIES, CASH. · - CZECHDSLO'VRY,IA: 22 RE.LIEF FLIGHTS, TRAINS - DENMARX: CASH THROUGH DANISH RED CROSS - FINLAND: MEDICAL SUPPLIES THROUGH REDCROSS, MOBILE HOSPITAL, BLANKEI:S THROI,JGH UNDRO 415,512 (++) 4,6E.3,e64 2121,0121121 (++) ( + +) 22,00121 1,5\?10,000 1, 21214,818 - FRANCE : 4 '37 RESCUERS, 54 DOGS, 70 MT RELI E;F SUPPLIES 673,851 BY AIR, SEA, ROAD AND RAIL 3 1 83'3 1 5'3121 - GERMRN OEM. REP.: 2 RELIEF FLIGHTS X/ 868,558 - GERMANY -FED. REI\ HEAVY E:OUir•MENT, COMMUNICATIONS, -X/GREECE: -....:~~~~~ ;~~~~~S RELIEF SL,JPPLI~ES, FLIGHTS 10; 47~~~~2 -' HOl.Y Sf.:E: CASH 112'0, 000 -X/ICELAND: CASH, TRANSPORT OF BLANKETS 54,989 -X/INDIA.: RELIEF FLIGHTS 10121, Ql0121 -.X II NDONE S I.R; A 1 RLIFT OF RELIEF' SUPI\'LI ES ( ++) IRELAND: CASH THROUGH IRISH RED CROSS 155,038 - I SHAEL : 4 RELIEF FLIGHTS WHH RESCUE TEAMS < + +.) - ITRLY: REL.I.E.F FLIGHTS, COMMI,JriiiCRTIONS, RESCUE ~ _ TEAMS, PREFABS - JAPAN: CASH 'THROUGH REDCRDSS, RELIEF SUPPLIES, Al.RLlFTS OF TENtS AND BLANKETS THROUGH UNPRO -X/KENYA: 10 MT .TEA, 3 MT OF ,COFFE;E -X/KOR-f:A·, REf• OF: RESCUE TEAMS, SUPPL! ES - LUXEMBOURG: CASH . -X/MAOAGRSC~R: MEDICINES, VOLUNTEERS - NONGOLII=l: MEDICINES, 50 MT CANNED MEAT, TENTS -X!MOR0£+:0: AIRLIFT OF MEDICAL-AND SHE;LTE'R SUPPLIES - NETHE·RLAt>lDS: MEDICAL SUPPLIES, COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH LRCS - \NEW ZEALPIND: CASH THROUGH LRCS - NOHWAY; CASH, .SUPPLIES, RE$CUE TEAM -X/PAKISTAN: RELIEi= SUPPLIES -X/POLAND: RESCUE TI;AM, RELIEF SUPPLIES -X(ROMANIA: l=<ESCUE TE:AM 1 RELIEF SUP~·t:IES -XI$AUDI ARPlB Ir:1: CASH ~xtSING'Ai=•QRE: CASH -.X/SPAIN: RESCUE TEAM -X/SRI LqNK~: 5 MT TEA (++) 1'0,. 025, 787 15,400 2,1211210,01210 277,008 (++) (++) (++) 1,538,461 32,£.79 XI 770,000 (++) (++) I (++) 5S'l21, 000 20,000 (++) . • (++) • - SWEDEN: -CASH THROUGH REDCROSS, 4 RELIEF FLIGHTS l-JITH RESCUE TEAMS, SU!=;~·LIES AND EQUIP~1ENT 1, 24'3, ~'3'3 - SWITZERLAND: RESCUE:/MEDICAL TEAMS, 2 RELIEF FLIGHTS 819,443 -X/SYRIA: RELIEF SUPPLIES (++) - TURKEY: 4 TRUCKLOADS OF .MEDICAL SUPPLIES -- UGANDA; RESCUE TEAM -X/UNITED ARAB EMIRATES: RELIEF SUPPLIES - UNITED HIN13DOM: 12 RELIEF FL.IGHTS, SUPPLIE~- AND EQUI.PMEN\T • RESCUE TEAMS - USA: 8 RELIEF FLIGHTS, RESCUE TEAMS, SUPPLIES ANfl EQUIPMENT, CASH -X/YUGOSLAVIA: SUPPliES 252,576 (++> (++) '3,51'3,335 1., 909, 451 14'3,12100 TOTAL US DOLLARS 55 MILLION '<'JAN TED: STUDENT\$ AN I> I. FACULTt.{ PUT ·IJ'IJ J·A)L INTERNATIONAL QUESTION ON R:i\3\<VAQ.\f 1\~r (ilrlt\ ?2rt~' I FOR·. I TRI IJfL\A~ F\RS1 ANNVAL JA)l P.MD BAlL . ~NG-ERE D 12-'-j: it\ E. A tv\ €R \CAN c.AI'i c.Eg &X.lt:l'l.{ Pot'li1 Mi.% THE\ oPPOJ<fV NI\T\f \TCJ SEE '{OVR. Fl<lEN~ THROW!'\· IN JAIL! l). - LOOK: . - ~~ to s1gn \'P on Fe-b. l41Vr>2D 11 ,. \N 11-t~ COLU.~E. GENT£1Z.. OF THE WEEK by Anthee Carassavas \IF YOU HAD TO GIVE A NAME TO A COUNTRY - ANY COUNTRY- WHAT NAME WOULD YOU GIVE IT?\ Jason Meshnick (91 )- Potassium Plagioclase Christoph Mark (90)- Orwellia Christina Calvi (91 )- Albertonia Leigh Breznoff (90)-Utopia Darren Binder (90)-Land of midweek parties without invites. Kevin Honlckel (90)-Chrisin?l~nd (law· of the land is for Kevin to shut up) Phi.l Chang (90)- Changsilivania Karabeba (89)- The State of Palestine ) -~ i i l 'i ·' ' •i i I 5

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS Februarv 9, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES By SFI:EbLEY S~'VMK;Q~ (1/31/89 .. 2l<t13t) West Oermany: A West German firm admitted having shipped large amounts of nuclear materials to India. This revelation shows a loophole in the 1970 Nuclear Non- Proliferation Treaty·. Bonn signed the treaty and accordingly, West Gennany can legally obtain materials the U.S. proscribes for side to the Third World. '' CAN HELP ARMENIA! Students, Clubs, Organizations and Faculty Money Armenia. Interested in to Rebuild Contact Helping Collect School a .. Ill Anthee at 374-3833 .. Great Britain: A proposal to 'shake-up' Great Britain's system of free health care in its forty-year history has been initiated by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Increased private insurance and large hospitals that charge fees will occur by 1991. The Labor Party has accused the Conservative party of destroying the National Health Service which began after WorldWar1. China: Soviet official Shevardnadze is to meet with Senior Chinese Officials Premier Li Peng. senior leader Deng Xiaoping, and foreign minister Qiah Qichen in Beijing. The visit is due to warming relations during the past year. A proposed visit by Mikhail Gorbachcv in. the spring will further the upswing in Soviet-Chinese relations. These are the official allocations of money and aid to the Armenian cause in accordance to the last report of the UNDROP .. (United Nations l)nsa.ster Release Organization)., Israel: Israeli Prime Minister Shamir bas developed a 2-step peace plan asking for greater autonomy for the West Bank and Gaza Strip. He has, however, ruled out the creation of a Palestinian state. In the occupied territories, striking protestors were fired upon by Israeli troops. Twenty-seven people were wounded. In addition, human rights activist Natan Sharansky is to be named Israeli ambassador to the United Nations. France: The investigation of a French stock ex.change agency, accused of insider trading in Lhe purchase of shares in a U.S. firm by state-owned Pcchiney? bas culminated. Further inquiry by the judiciary may take two years. The lingering scandal has implicated allies of President Mitterand. South Africa: Conservative F. W. de Klerk succeeded as leader of the ruling National Party after Botha resigned. Seventy-three· year old Botha stepped down from the. party post to focus on his presidential responsibilities, The German Club announces the showing of REIFEZEUGNIS on Feb. 13 at 7:30pm at the College Center Room 406. One of the best films in the famous detective series \Tatort. .. Sin a a 17- year-old high school student falls in love with her teacher. They meet secretly until one day they are found out by a classmate, Michael who is in love with Sina, and all kinds of complications ensue. Directed by Wolfgang Peterson; starring Natassja Ki nski, Klaus Schwarzkopf, Christian Quadflieg. ~-~-:~.r;i~-: hE::::uE. r:_:~!'-':S (2 ::~~ ~E:F =.._ :GHT:;) -r/ ! ,l:.?'l2~ l\0L;.\\ ~~-JSTP~~~ I~: •.\~~f-1 THq~l.JC:I-i LRCS L..34._ 7E.=_ ;_~r~:~: r:-,~H, 2 ~EL:E~ F~IGHTS WITH RESC~E TE~M3 483~333 - [E~G:~~: ~ ~~~lEf FLi3~~7S WIT~ R~JC~QSS A~D ~-~ :·~: :~ .. s =. .. ?:NS F.~ONT :E.~E3 .;..~S, 5:2 -x :-·;i_'_;~~::,c..: ~c..l_:E.;::. r·L IG~-~ !,..JIT .... R:::.~-·~- 'TE~.~~; (++) --) ._- : .. : - 1 cy:-::.,_:S: ~E.-IEF s~r:c:L:ES, CASH - CZE::-::---CSL.C·.H~ :~: 2::. ~.E.LIE:F FLIGHIS, r.;~:~-iS 4,~,.:;,et-r ::_ f ~ .'~-::..t.._'Hj rF:~~ ..... .:.-~r'v: CP:·Srl Tl-i~GLC:r- eel\ ISH F=-.: ·:..R1J::._.,; 1 ,:.....:..,.:,.~ e ~8 - FI~ii_~~D: ~EriC~L S'J~CL!ES ~HRS!~G~ ?f~C~8SS, f\._~f!LE HC•s;:·ITe:L, E<LANi-',EIS T'\R'_. •JNChO t:J:O,S51 F Ff:,.'JCE:.: '- ': 7 F!::3CUE PS, 54 DuGS, 70 ,.,-, RELIEF SUI='~L I ES E-\ ;... : ~, s~·A, FDA[, ~1.\-JD ::~I L ~, e~ 1~ :..'?~ cr::_r\:·~;:.i\. o=·~\. P£:'.: ~· h-::-L IEF F._ !G:.--<TS '(: et e~ =:5e - GER~ANY FED. REP.OF: HEAVY EQU!r~ENT, COMMUN!CAriO~S, Rf::5CJE TEf:.MS, RELIEF SUI=>='L!ES, FLIGHTS l0,L;77,'30.=. -X/GREECE: RELIEF FLIGHTS (~+I -· HOlv S~E: C~SH -X/ILELAND: CASH, TRANSPORT OF BLAN~ETS -Xf!NOIA: RELIEF FLIGHTS -~!INDONESIA: AIRLIFT CF RELIEF SU~PL:E3 IRELAND: CASH THROUGH IRISH RED CROSS ISRAEL: 4 RELIEF FLIGHTS WITH RESCUE TEAMS ITALY: RELIEF FLIGHTS, COMMUNICRTIONS, RESCUE TEAMS, C· RE FABS - JA~AN: CASH THROUGH REDCROSS, RELIEF SUPPLIES, AIRLIFTS OF TENTS AND BLANKETS THROUGH UNDRO -X/KENYA: 10 MT TEA, 3 MT OF COFFEE -X/KORf:A, RE~· OF: RESCUE TEAMS, SUPPLIES - LUXEMBOURG: CASH -X/MADAGASCAR: MEDICINES, VOLUNTEERS - MONGOLIA: MEDICINES, 50 MT CANNED MEAT, TENTS -X/MOROC):O: AIRLIFT OF MEDICr::\L- AND SHELTER SUPPLIES - NETHERLANDS: MEDICAL SUPPLIES, COMNUNICRTIONS THROUGH LRCS - .NEW ZEALAND: CASH THROUGH LRCS - NORWAY: CASH, SUPPLIES, RESCUE lEAM -X/PAKISTAN: RELIEF SUPPLIES -X/POLAND: RESCUE TEAM, RELIEF SUPPLIES -X~ROMANIA: RESCUE TEAM, RELIEF SU!=·PLIES -X/SRUDI ARABIA: CASH -X/SINGAPORE: CASH -X/SPAIN: RESCUE TEAM -XtSRI LqNKA: 5 MT TEA - SWEDEN: -CHSH THROUGH ~EDCROSS, 4 RELIEF FLIGHTS WITH RESCUE TEAMS, SUI=•PLI ES AND EQUIP~1ENT - SWITZERLAND: RESCUE/MEDICAL TEAMS, 2 RELIEF FLIGHTS -X/SYRIA: RELIEF SUPPLIES - TURf'.EY: 4 TRUCKLOADS OF MEDICAL SU~·PLIES -- UGANDA: RESCUE TEAM -X/UNITED ARAB EMIRATES: RELIEF SUPPLIES UNITED KINGDOM: 12 RELIEF FLIGHTS, SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT, RESCUE TEAMS - USA: 8 RELIEF FLIGHTS, RESCUE TEAMS, SUPPLIES ANI'> EQUIPMENT, CRSH -X/YUGOSLAVIA: SUPPLIES 100,000 54,98'3 1.00,000 ( ++) (+\\-) (+..-) lllt,025,7E.7 15,400 2:,01?10,000 277,008 (++) (++) ( ++) 1 '538, 451 32,573 )(( 770,000 (++) (++) I (++) 5g.0' 000 20,000 ( ++) .( ++) . l ' 24 '3' '3'3'3 81'3,443 ( ++) 252,576 <++) <++) '9, 519,336 1, 91219, 451 149,000 TOTAL US DOLLARS 55 MILLION v.JANTED: 5TUDENT5 AND I FACULTl-{ PUT IN .JAlL INTERNATIONAL QUESTION ol\l PCB ~v A Q.'i z1sr a<~cl 22 fiP I r:oR·. ' I TQ\ DfLIAS F'\\RS\ ANNVAL JAIL M'ID BAlL l~~NS€REI> B'i; \It\£ AIYIEK.\CAN GA f'l CER SCX:.I E1 '-1' I DoN'T IY\1% THE oPPOI<f\JNIT'f TO SEE.' '-{ouR F I< lE.N ~ 1lt ROVVI'i \N JAlL!l.l. l woK: to s1gn t.1P on Feb. l4M-20 11 -t \N mt: CcJLL.E~E GENT~ ...... lilt- OF THE WEEK by Anthee Carassavas \IF YOU HAD TO GIVE A NAME TO A COUNTRY - ANY COUNTRY- WHAT NAME WOULD YOU GIVE IT?\ Jason Meshnick (9i )- Potassium Plagioclase Christoph Mark (90}- Orwellia Christina Calvi (9i )- Albertoni.a Leigh Breznof:f (90)-Utopia Darren Binder (90)-Land of midweek parties without invites. Kevin Honickel (90)-Chrisinaland (law of the land is for Kevin to shut up) Phil Chang (90)- Changsilivania Karabeba (89)· The State of Palestine / •· I ! I. r ! ' I r ; ,,

.)'- ; . i ·I I I •! l : . ' CQN~ORDp!_NSIS: B,ebruary· 9, .1989 Page 9 .J !. L n •••• • . j\ INTERNATIONAL FEATURES - - ·Japan Proves\ To Be A Potpourri Of Old and Ne:w, Quiet and Loud By DEBRA B. HONIG Commentaries Editor When-morning came, I rolled off of my futon mattress onto ~he tatami {straw) mat floor, and ha4 a set of chopsticks waiting for me .alongside .an elaborate breakfast of sticky rice, eggs, and miso shit:o soup. This was not a revolutionary housing and meal plan afUnion College, nor any living arrangement possible to experience in the United States. This is what I call living and loving life in Osaka, Japan. Fifte·en UnionCoUege students bad the opportunity fall term to study at Kansai Gaidai University and to live with Japanese families in what was a hands-on cultural experience, 'Faking a course on life in J~pan could never compare in intensity to actually doing it. We couldn't just close a book and shGve it undetneath·a bed when we got frustrated. Equipped with just ten weeks of the Japanese language, we were placed with families shGrtly after arriving in J11pan. I. suddenly realized that my vocabulary bank was quicKly exhausted -- there are. just so many ·times I can say, \What time is it?\ and. \That is very pretty,'\ for lack of better conversation. For the first tw() weeks, I went to the dinner table with my dictionary. I never knew when conversation would start rolling, and moreover, I wanted to identify the name ofthe particular fish I was to be eating. ,. My fllmily bad never had such intimate ·contact with a · ''foreigner•• (in ·Japanese \gaijin\) before. I found that they were most curious about aspects of my behavior I was never conscious of ·in the . United State.s. I saw and tried to understand the way the ' Japanese act, and at the same time, I br..came atutely aware of what\ Arnerican\ really means~ bringing home a salary, and when their husbands often come home drunk and demand a meal, they· usually don't consider complaining, much less divorcing. Americans suffer from guilt; the Japanese, from shame. This potpourri of examples highlights the notion that \our\ thinking and \our\ behavior is not 100% universal. I expected to see \odd\ practices from the Japanese, such as eating octopus, and taking shoes' off at the doorway. However trivial things which I did, such as eating the skin of a.grape, .had never phased me ~$ being II tr II \1 h s. .ange, · unt:t t ey were. shocked wben l did so. Because the differences can be so strong, it was fascinating to be able to integrate so successfully into my homestay family,,, Similarities also do ~xist. I became the best of friends with my 20-year,.old Japanese sister, Mari, because the potential for friendship exists across all cultures. Besides, het English was gooo! I was comfortable in a home where three of the four members spoke no English. I became familiar enough with them that I uo longer thought of them as \Japanese\ every . time I looked at them. I could distinguish among the people, and they no loriger seemed to be a wall of the \same\ looking Japanese faces. Before actually seeing Japan, I had difficulty piecing together c~ntrasting images I had of the country:. On the one hand, Japan meant rice fields, women in kimonos, and mysterious shrines and temples. On the ·other hand, Japan was an economic giant -- the land of the walkman and computer tech_nology galore. My mind was wanting to see Japan as one extreme· or th~ e~ther. The truth is Japan is both old and new alongside · each Because the vast majority of Japan's population is Japanese, the foreigner encounters a variety of reactions when casually walking around the coantry. Some people, particularly the Oilder generation, had their eyes fixated on ol:lf W.estem faces. BlGnde hair, blue/green eyes-- these characteristics can set some Japanese into a stupor. Young. schoolchildren, all dressed in uniforn'l, often burst ' into giggling fits and yell \herro\ (het:lo). College-age students ate quite receptive to Westerners, and are particularly fond of clothing with English words on it. (I might add the En.gli:sh usually makes no sense.) There were occasions when people we didn't know wanted our pictures and autographs. Some Americans went hitchhiking and not only reached their destinations safely, but were wined and dined along the way. . Part of the beauty of living in Japan was being able to reinforce the fact that stereotypes of people do not always hold true, and are often totally inaccurate and misunderstood. For example, many people view the Japanese as workaholics, but a closer lool<: .shows some are \kaishaholics \kaisha\ meaning company. Workers don't usually come home before 10, but a walk through any entertainment district proves they· aren't working behind a desk, but rather drinking with co-workers. Drinking is not only acceptable for them, but it is an expected · part of business relations. The Japanese are not, of course generally speaking, a religious people, but they often frequent Buddhist temples and Shinto shrines. They may observe Buddhist customs for certain occasions and Shinto customs for another. Many pebra Honig and heJ homestay si~tet, Mari, brave through an endless path of \tori\ (Shinto arches) at Fushimi, lnari. Shrine in Kyoto. . · In time, 1 picked up c>n othe:r. A fascinating Jt:yJanese attach little personal significant cultural differences. combination. In my home, for religious significance to the In Japan, it is often better to be example, then~ was an easter- buildings, but go to enjoy the silent than to draw attention to .style toilet (a bole), but there beauty that is captured inside ones~lf or to voice .an ·opinion. was also a VCR and,an electric the buildings and in the 'l'hete was a big hushaboutthe rice cooker. One could to into . surrounding gardens. then-ailing Ernperor Hirohito. the .ancient capital Kyoto for The majority of sightseeing The people dress in blacks, lunch at McDonald's, an in Japan is probably visiting - blues, and grays -w vivid pinks . afte~oon ~t a shrine, and fl shrines and temples. They ru:e and redS are tare. The Japanese evemng m Osaka for an. definitely \the place to~~~ on a avoid eye contact. Women are ·overdose Of neon signs and Sunday. One can either people- pleased just by their husbands' p~hinkoparlors. watch, ot participate. One . A Japanese feast in Takayama Left. (top to botto.m): ~risten Ryan, Andy Lipman, Kris Tierney, Robrn lsserles, Ktm TIII01son, Ben Davoudzadeh, Virginia Melia, Professor Sharon Gmelch. Right (top to bottom): Tim Mattews, Prof~ssor George Gmelch, Pete Lambert, Colin Ingersoll, Jackie Czech, Teresa Siberi, Debra ·Honig, Anna Allen, Morgan Gmelch. weekend, the Union group reminder here that yes, indeed, chose the latter. We awoke to we did go to Japan to study at a attend the 6 a.m. ceremony at university. Because Kansai the Buddhist temple we were Gaidai educated sotne 8,000 staying at in Koyasan. Nobody Japanese students, as well as could comprehend the ancient some 170 foreigners, we were Japanese they were speaking-- able to establish an entire not even Teresa Si:beni's network at the school. Some Japanese homestay sister, but ~oined clubs, which are very it was the kind of thing you do Important at the university. only once in your life. Besides Spoken Japanese, and That brings me to climbing Reading and Writing Japanese, Mt. Fuji. Fuji was certainly we took two other classes another exp~r:.cnce which falls taught in English, ranging under the \once in a lifetime\ from hands-on art cla::..,es to category. To sum up that business to politics to experience, I'll just let you sociology. We took the consider the well known quote, knowledge from the classroom \A man is a fool if he never and put it to work in this new climbs Mt. Fuji, but if he and eKciting culture. climbs it more than once, he is . twice a foot\ Besides the trip to Koyasan, the Union students also went as a group to Takayama and ' Hiroshima. Hiroshima. Born b ruins. Monuments to the dead. A museum which captures the ·horror of the moment. A schoolgirl who interviewed Teresa and I about how it felt to be in Hiroshima. Maybe I should inject a little ; Langqage Tables :Mondays: FRENCH SPANISH ·JAPANESE I Tuesdays: ·CHINESE l Wednesdays:. iGERMAN . RUSSIAN Thursdays: ll'AUAN 12:45 \ 1:45 11:30 \ 12:30 12:45 • 1:45 . 11:30 - 12:30 Friday 12:45 • 1:45 lSU Meet in the Upperclass Diningroom in the College Center. We did more than just learn about Japan from a textbook. We were surrounded by the culture, both socially and academical·ly. You know you've been immersed in Japan when you're talking on the phone and you start to bow, or when you're laughing and you cover your mouth like Japanese girls do. We did more than just master the art of chopsticks .. UNION REVIEW OF BOOKS February Selection by I.F. Stone lhe Trial of Socrates February.15, 1989 , Oo.llege Center, 1 :00 sharp, · . Mobil Lounge, 4th Floor · . Moderators: Jan Ludwig and Jon Marincola The February selection Is now on sale at 111e Bookstore for one-half the-relail price. i.

,, I r ! ' 1: r ' ' ,, ! \ i ,, CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Japan Proves To Be A Potpourri Of Old and New, Quiet and Loud By DEBRA B. HONIG Commentaries Editor When morning carne, I rolled off of my futon mattress onto the tatami (straw) mat floor, and had a set of chopsticks waiting for me alongside an elaborate breakfast of sticky rice, eggs, and miso shiro soup. This was not a revolutionary housing and meal plan at Union College, nor any living arrangemellt possible to experience in the United States. This is what I call living and loving life in Osaka, Japan. Fifteen UnionCollege students had the opportunity fall term to study at Kansai Gaidai University and to live with Japanese families in what was a hands-on cultural experience. Taking a course on life in Japan could never compare in intensity to actually doing it. We couldn't just close a book and shove it underneath a bed when we got frustrated. Equipped with just ten weeks of the Japanese lang11age, we were placed with families shortly after arriving in Japan. I suddenly realized that my vocabulary bank was quickly exhausted -- there are just so many times I can say, \What time is it?\ and \That is very pretty,\ for lack of better conversation. For the first two weeks, I went to .the dinner table with my dictionary. I never knew when conversation would start rolling, and moreover, I wanted to identify the name of the particular fish I was to be eating. My family had never had such intimate contact with a \foreigner\ (in Japanese \gaijin\) before. I found that they were most curious about aspects of my behavior I was never conscious ·Of in the United States. I saw and tried to understand tile way the Japanese act, and at the same time, I became acutely aware of what \American\ really means. bringing home a salary, and when their husbands often come home drunk and demand a mea:l, they usually don't consider complaining, much les~ divorcing. Americans su:ffer from guilt; the Japanese, from shame. This potpourri of examples highlights the notion that \our\ thinking and \our\ bella vim is not 100% universal I expected to see \odd\ practices from the J.apanese, sach as eating octopus, and takjng shoes off at the doorway. However trivial things which I did, such as eating the skin of a grape, had never phased me as being \stt-ange until they were sb~cked when I did so. Because the differences can be so strong, it was fascinating to be able to integrate so successfully into my homestay family. Similarities also do exist. I became the best of friends with my 20-year-old Japanese sister, Mari, because the potential for friendship exists across all cultures. Besides, her English was good! I was comfortable in a home where three of the four members spoke no English. I became familiar enough with them that I no longer thought of them as \Japanese\ every time I looked at them. I could djsJinguish among the people, a11d they no longer seemed to be a wall of the \same\ looking Japanese faces. Before actually seeing Japan, I had difficulty piecing together C<lntrasting images I had of the country. On the one hand, Japan meant rice fields, women ill kimonos, and mysterious shrines and temples. On the ()tfler hand, Japan was an economic giant -- the land of tlle walkman and computer technology galore. My mind was wanting to see Japan as one extreme· or the other. The truth is Japan is both old and new alongside each Because the vast majority of Japan's population is Japanese, the foreigner encounters a variety of reactions when casually walking around the country. Some people, particularly the older generation, had their eyes fixated on our Western faces. Blonde hair, blue/green eyes -- these characteristics can set some Japanese into a stupor. Young schoolchildren, all dressed in uniform, often burst into giggling fits and yell \herro\ (hello). College-age students are quite receptive to Westerners, and are particularly fond of clothing with English words on i't. (I might add the English usually makes no sense.) There were occasions when people we didn't know wanted our pictures and autographs. Some Americans went hitchhiking and not only reached their destinations safely, but were wined and dined along the way. . Part of the beauty of living in Japan was being able to reinforce the fact that stereotypes of people do not always hold true, and are often totally inaccurate and misunderstood. For example, many people view the Japanese as workaholics, but a closer look shows some are \kaishaholics \kaisha\ meaning company. Workers don't usually come home before 10, but a walk through any entertainment district proves they aren't working behind a desk, but rather drinking with co-workers. Drinking is not only acceptable for them, but it is an expected part of business relations. The Japanese are not, of course generally speaking, a religious people, but they often frequent Buddhist temples and Shinto shrines. They may observe Buddhist customs for certain occasions and Shinto customs for another. Many Debra Honig and herhomestay sis1er, Mari, brave through an endless path of \tori\ (Shinto arches) at Fushimi lnari Shrine in Kyoto. In time, I pi~ked up on ()ther. A fascinating significant cultural differences. ~ombination. In my horne, for In Japan, it is often better to be example, there was an easter- silent than to draw attention to style toilet (a hole), but there oneself or to voice an opinion. was also a VCR and an electric Thete was a big hush aboutthe rice cooker. One could to into then-ailing Emperor Hirohito. tile ancient capital Kyoto for The people dress in blacks, lunch at McDonald's, an blues, and grays --vivid pinks afternoon at a shrine, and :,m and reds are rare. The Japanese evening in Osaka for an avoid eye contact. Women are overdose of neon signs and pleased just by their husbands' pachink:o parlors. Japanese attach little personal religious significance to the buildings, but go to enjoy the beauty that is captured inside the buildings and in the surrounding gardens. The majority of sightseeing in Japan is probably visiting shrines and temples. They are definitely \the place to be\ on a Sunday. One can either people- watch, or participate. One A Japanese feast in Takayama Left. (top to bottom): Kristen Ryan, Andy Lipman, Kris TierAey, Robm lsserles, Kim Tillotson, Ben Davoudzadeh, Virginie Melio, Professor Sharon Gmelch. flight (top to bottom): Tim Mattews, Professor George Gmelch, Pete Lambert, Colin Ingersoll, Jackie Czech, Teresa Siberi, [)ebra , Honig, Anna Allen, Morgan Gmelch. weekend, the Union group reminder here that yes, indeed, chose the latter. We a woke to we did go to Japan to study at a attend the 6 a.m. ceremony at university. Because Kansai t.lle Buddhist temple we were Gaidai educated some 8,()00 staying at in Koyasan. Nobody Japanese students, as well as could comprehend the ancient some 170 foreigners, we were Japanese they were speaking -- able to establish an entire flC>t even Teresa Sibeni's network at the school. Some Japanese homestay sister, but ~oined clubs. which are very it was the kind of thing you do Important at the university. only once in your life. Besides Spoken Japanese, 2nd That brings me to climbing Reading and Writing Japanese~ Mt. Fuji. Fuji was certainly we took two other classes another exp~r~ence which falls taught in English, ranging under the \once in a lifetime\ from hands-on art cla.:.,es to category. To sum up that business to politics to exp.;nencc. I'll just let you sociology. We took the c;onsider the well known quote, knowledge. from the classroom '.-\ man is a fool if he never and put it to work in this new .:limbs Mt. Fuji, but if he and exciting culture . .:limbs it more than once, he is twice a fool\ Besides the trip to Koyasan, Lk Union students also went as a group to Takayama and · I-liroshima. Hiroshima. Bomb ntins. Monuments ~o the dead. A museum which captures the horror of the moment. A schoolgirl who interviewed Teresa and I about how it felt to be in Hiroshima. Maybe I should inject a little Language Tables ·.Mondays: 12:45 - 1:45 FRENCH SPANISH ·JAPANESE I Tuesdays: 11:30 - 12:30 CHINESE · 1 Wednesdays: 12:45 · 1:45 iGERMAN RUSSIAN 1'hursdays: 11:30 - 12:30 ITALIAN Friday 12:45 - 1:45 ISU Meet in the Upperclass Diningroom in the College Center. We did more than just kam <~tout Japan from a tcxtbGok. We were surrounded by the culture, both social! y and academically. You know you've been immersed in Japan when you're talking on the phone and you start to bow, or when you're laughing and you cover your mouth like Japanese girls do. We did more than just master the art of chopsticks. UNION REVIEW 0 F BOOKS February Selection by I.F. Stone The Trial of Socrates February 15, 1989. College Center, 1 :00 sharp, · Mobil Lounge, 4th Hoor Moderators: Jan Ludwig ancJ Jon Marincola The February selection Is n()w on sale at the Bookstore for ()ne-llalf the retail price.

/fT ~· • UJ,l)ltfllf vttttStS Founded at Union Colieg-e l·S.?t ......---- Unestablished '. ' ~ . ' ' . . Frater·nity . A Gamble The Interfraternity Collncil rejected Delta Psi Delta's petition for membership {see article on front page). Although the decision is not surprising (considering the unofficial policy that IFC lias adopted concerning first-year ap~e~s for m~mbership ), the nature of this particular petition provtdes the opportunity to examinne the appropriateness.of a co .. educational fiatemity at Union. This matter takes particular relevance when considering the circumstances that exist at Union. Firstly, part of Union's history lies in its greek system. IFC holds a responsibility to that :piece ()f history. The addition of a co-ed fraternity to the greek system would undoubtedly have an impact on the maintenance of this heritage. This does not mean that Union should never consideqtlle additio~ ~fa co-ed fiatemity- to its community; howeversuch an a~t10n s~ould be <:~fully awpr()ached with . consider~:tion of tbis point. · . . Secondly, it seems unlikely (and unhealthy for the preservation' of greek life) that; pre:cede11ce 'be set by a fraternity coming from outside of the c<>llege. community. From the point of view of present greek life, the .acceptance of a co-ed fraternity unfamiliar with the mechanics of the greek system (and in fact contrary to some of the t:mditions of fraterniteis} can be disrupting and:s.elf-endangering. From the ~int !Jf the co-ed f~at~rnity itself, like Delta Psi Delta, its colornzanon can be a dtfficult and formidable task. Not only ~ould such a fra!emity. ~ave to settle within.th:e community, It would have this add1t10nal burde11 o:f settm;g precedence. Perhaps the first co-ed fraternity at V nion wolll.d have to be a fraternity from within the commu:nity tbat makes the decision to go co-ed. It would at least have to be a fraternity with a well established national geared at suppOrting the co- ed fraternity. Delta Psi Delta is not. It does not have a nationa1. Furthenfiore, it is a' considerably young fraternity, IFC was right in turning down Delta Psi Delta's petition. And although Chuck McGavem ~89, IFC president, was quoted as saying \the fact that Delta Psi Delta is co-ed.was not a deciding factor (in lFC's decision),\ it is hoped that when the fraternity is up for serioas reconsideration, the above points are carefully weighed. Delta Psi Delta, by the nature .of its :constitutiQn, represents a seriou.s turning point in most aspects of Union's social life. In order to become a m.ember·of lFC it will need to prove itself as a viable, and constructive addition to the community. Delta Psi Delta: . Fraternity System Not Bes·t Bet LET'TERS . . Student Forum Offers Examples Of Its Active Agenda To th~ Editor: . ' 1 Like any good journalist ... (one) ... needs ~o do scme footwork to keep abreast of the issues.\ Interesting that last week's editorial \Tak~ Note, Student Forum'' was not based . on knowledge or research of the issues raised. The Student Government · ' Association is. an elected body · of students with a lot of energy • : and desire to act in the benefit · . of the Union community. Sixteen students attend weekly meetings tQ discuss issues · pertinent to this c9Uege. . In addition, each of these students strives to \ ... provide cbannels of communication, increased. areas of coopera;tion, and a greater acceptance ·.o'f 'shared respon.SiJ>i11ty\ by serving on · th.e. Committee · on . Committe~s.. 'pJ~arice Qli,,l.mitte~\ :aoai:d .Q( trtJ;..S.tees, Student Affairs Council, Academic Affairs Council, Inter~fraternity Council,. and Panhellenic Council. These sub-councils of the Student Government Association are established \inform.aihm . -- .. ·- channels\ that we believ¢d were not · being ·utilized· \)'y 'the Administration in tbe manner they were intended te.lt would be redundant to ini~iate yet an<>ther infol'rnation channel bef()te the ones in existence: are w<>rking effectively. La.st teqn Student Forum members went on a leadership retreat. held meetings at vcrious locations, inclu<ling the Cultural Unity House, to encourag.e student input, worked to alter the uses .of the . College Center · Atrium, all<Jcated funds to various otganizatiens, and acted: r~sponsibly ,in the po~itions they were elected to. This term. in addition to monitoring student. e·rganizations, alloc~ting funds, and serving ()fi. the .respeCtive sub-councils, the Student Forum has worked within ~the Cbllege and is ; :ellpanding tQ .offe.r,. our. :time .in the Schenectady community. The Student Forum ushered at the Freshman Dinner, held fresb:man elec'tions, met with Dean Mammola to discuss the issues raised in our letter of two weeks ago, has a ~k force investigating. the feasibility of an honor code at Union, is worlqng with area shcools to sponsor a concert te ·benefit the Northeast Association of the Blind, is planning to visit Wildwood School on V alentiite's Day~ and will be meeting with Lorraine Matta . and Jerri ·clark to offer'student input ·for Carnp · Un!ien. Pe~haps tfie editors could enlighten tis as to exactly what weuld. foster respect from the Administratiuon~ • Student Forum has fulfilled its. respqnsibiliti~s. an~· been innovative. in Jinding new ones, 1~ is a ittwb-way street\ and we believe that we have gene full-&pe.ed ahead on our side. Stude!)t .Fol'1lltl is not a passive group of st1!dents. we are motivated . ilnlividuals . giving time, thmight, and energy to issues that affect the union community\ because we care about it. Sincerely Wendy Endress 'S9 · on behalf of the 1988-89 Student Forum Students Call For Change Iri Hqckey Ticket Dist:Jibution · To the Editor: On behalf of many students, of watching the Skating w.e are writing to seek a change Dutchmen should have ·that We ~e writing to in<licate }~ tht1 .Il.oij~~, _of~di~ipu~t~g .opp~~'J]itY..: \!i~opf .t~arg~. If . our, -9:~~tp,a~ , ~~:,, Qm., .r~8ent i ~ 'mmekey.~uc:ketst:J!&~eXl8il.ipi~~,tt,'·· bthe~tee~nt:la¢1HoitmmlabiliW . s~qrtage .. of cornplime.n,t~;y is unfair that adminisiiators.can of student tickets is dn student/faculty tickets· · for ; ~CJlleet :tp's:-;frept.\Q$er ~cult~?; .f indiCation \\lf41Itllte:tren:ds, thdn Dutchmen hockey games. For : m~mbers, in order tO :obtai'i{ ~· w~beli~ve'a.¢hafig6should be the second consecutive tlleir TWO per ID considered. · Saturday (and not the frrst. time complimentary tickets, . We this year), students who-came . believe that aq.y UID,ott student as many as 24 hours before the wh:O wishes:- to participate· in. game were closed out from :t!Je enthusiasm and excitement . . these complimentary tickets. It · is upsetting to these srudents . that they were either denied entrance to the game or forced · to pay full price for admission. · It is unfortunate that those students with active schedules who, because of classes, lab, work, etc. cannot ascertain their complimentary tickets, are forced to pay just as any other person off the street who contributes nothing to Union College. After all, students · (and their parents) contribute approximately $18,000 a year (with over a 9% expected increase), It is disturbing that Achilles Rink should be so · . profit-oriented as to suppress UnionCollege school spirit by inciting anger and frustration. Andi Goldberg .. '90 Rob Raphael- '90 This past Tuesday the In1erfraternity Council overwhelmingly voted dow,n the addition of a new co~ed fraternity. While the decision was most likely beneficial to the maintenance of this strong body and its principles ~d standards, it may not have been the,decision most beneficial to the college community as a wh()le. We do not fault the JFC for its predictable action, but suggest that perhaps it was not the correct channel to acbieve what, presumably, the group of would-be student founders ha(fhoped to. The fraternity system is old aq.d · ~~tablis)led at Union. _Ws _ ... traditional roots run deep. It is only to be e:;{pected that a fledgling fraternity with little national recognition would LETTERS TO .THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION not be welcomed, especially one so radically different. It would seem that the students concerned with founding this fraternity are interested in the. organization, strength; and sense of comma;nity that fraternities provide. These things could be achieved in a framework other than the fraternity. A co-ed fratemity is intrinsically non-traditional. Students interested in founding a co-ed fratem.ity may find a non-traditional organization or bantling tie more appropriate and more feasible. A co-ed organization (perhaps eventually one that shares a house) would likely have positive effects on the campus as a whole. Perhaps the traditional cbannels of the fraternity system are not the best way to achleve the installation of such an organization. We urge tlle students interested in founding this new fraternity to look into alternative methods of establishing a strong, collesive; co-ed organization. OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD I ' l.:

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 Cllnttnlrbirnsis Founded at Union College 1877 ------ Unestablished Fraternity A Gamble The Interfraternity Council rejected Delta Psi Delta's petition for membership (see article on front page). Although the decision is not surprising (considering the unofficial policy that IFC has adopted concerning first-year appeals for membership), the nature of this particular petition provides the opportunity to examinne the appropriateness of a co-educational fraternity at Union. This matter takes particular relevance when considering the circumstances that exist at Union. Firstly, part of Union's history lies in its greek system. IFC holds a responsibility to that piece of history. The addition of a co-ed fraternity to the greek system would undoubtedly have an impact on the maintenance of this heritage. This does not mean that Union should never consider the addition of a co-ed fraternity to its community; however such an action should be carefully approached with consideration of this point. Secondly, it seems unlikely (and unhealthy for the preservation of greek life) that precedence be set by a fraternity coming from outside of the college community. From the point of view of present greek life, the acceptance of a co-ed fraternity unfamiliar with the mechanics of the greek system (and in fact contrary to some of the traditions of fraterniteis) can be disrupting and self-endangering. From the point of the co-ed fraternity itself, like Delta Psi Delta, its colonization can be a difficult and formidable task. Not only ~ould such a fra~emity_ ~ave to settle within the community, It would have this additwnal bm:den of setting precedence. Perhaps the first co-ed fraternity at Union would have to be a fraternity from within the community that makes the decision to go co-ed. It would at least have to be a fraternity with a well established national geared at supporting the co- ed fraternity. Delta Psi Delta is not. It does not have a national. Furthermore, it is a considerably young fraternity. IFC was right in turning down Delta Psi Delta's petition. And although Chuck McGavem '89, IFC president, was quoted as saying \the fact that Delta Psi Delta is co-ed was not a deciding factor (in IFC's decision),\ it is hoped that when the fraternity is up for serious reconsideration, the above points are carefully weighed. Delta Psi Delta, by the nature of its constitution, represents a serious turning point in most aspects of Union's social life. In order to become a member of IFC it will need to prove itself as a viable and constructive addition to the community. Delta Psi Delta: ~ Fraternity System Not Best Bet This past Tuesday the Interfraternity Council overwhelmingly voted down the addition of a new co-ed fraternity. Wh1le the decision was most likely beneficial to the maintenance of this strong body and its principles and standards, it may not have been the decision most beneficial to the college community as a whole. We do not fault the IFC for its predictable action, but suggest that perhaps it was not the correct channel to achieve what, presumably, the group of would-be student founders had hoped to. The fraternity system is old and established at Union. It's traditional roots run deep. It is only to be expected that a fledgling fraternity with little national recognition would not be welcomed, especially one so radically different. It would seem that the students concerned with founding this fraternity are interested in the organization, strength, and sense of community that fraternities provide. These things could be achieved in a framework other than the fraternity. A co-ed fraternity is intrinsically non-traditional. Students interested in founding a co-ed fraternity may find a non-traditional organization or bonding tie more appropriate and more feasible. A co-ed organization {perhaps eventually one that shares a house) would likely have positive effects on the campus as a whole. Perhaps the traditional channels of the fraternity system are not the best way to achieve the installation of such an organization. We urge the students interested in founding this new fraternity to look into alternative methods of establishing a strong, cohesive, co-ed organization. LETTERS Student Forum Offers Examples Of Its Active Agenda To th~ Editor: \Like any good journalist ... ' (one) ... needs to do some footwork to keep abreast of the issaes.\ Interesting that last week's editoria!l \Take Note, Studenl Forum\ was not based on knowledge or research of the issues raised. The Student Government Association is an elected body of students with a lot of energy and desiFe to act in the bene6t of the Union community. ' Sixteen students attend weekly meetings to discuss issues . pertinent to this college. In addition, each ofthese students strives to \ ... provide channels of communication, increased . areas of cooperation, and a • gteater acceptance of shared responsibility\ by serving on the Committee on Committees. Finance Committee, Board of Trustees, Student Affairs Council, Academic Affairs Council, Inter-fraternity Council, and Panhellenic Council. These sub-councils of the Student . Government Association are established \information channels\ that we believed were not being utilized by the Administration in the manner they were intended to. It wot:rld be redundant to initiate yet another information channel before the ones in existence ru:e working effectively. Last term Student Forum members went on a leadership retreat, held meetings at various locations, including the Cultural Unity House, to encourage student input, worked to alter the uses of the College Center Atrium, allocated funds to varioMs organizations. and acted responsibly in the positions they were elected to. This term, in addition to monitoring student organizations, allocating funds, and serving on the respective sub-councils, the Student Forum has worked within the College and is expanding to otter our time in the Schenectady community. The Student Forum ushered at the Freshman Dinner, held freshman elections, met with Dean Mammola to discuss the issues raised in our letter of two weeks ago, has a task force investigating the feasibility of an honor code at Union, is working with area shcools to sponsor a concert to·benefit tlle Northeast Association of the Blind, is planning to visit Wildwood School on Valentine's Day, and will be meeting with Lorraine Marra and Jerri Clark to offer student input for Camp Union. Perhaps the editors could enlighten us as to exactly what would foster respect from the Administratiuon? · Student Forum has fulfi1led its responsibilities and been innovative in finding new ones. It is a \two-way street\ and we believe that we have gone full-speed ahead on our side. Student Forum is not a passive group of students. we are motivated individuals giving time, thought, and energy to issues that affect the union community because we care about it. Sincerely Wendy Endress '89 on behalf of the 1988-89 Student Forum Students Call For Change In Hockey Ticket Distribution · To the Editor: We are writing to indicate oar dismay at the recent sllortage of complimentary student/faculty tickets for Dutchmen hockey games. For the second consecutive Saturday (and not the first time this year), students who carne as many as 24 hours before the game were closed out from these complimentary tickets. It is upsetting to these students that they were either denied entrance to the game or forced to pay full price for admission. It is unfortunate that those students with active schedules who, because of classes, lab, work, etc. cannot ascertain their complimentary tickets. are forced to pay just as any other person off the street who C()ntributes nothing to Union College. After all, students (and their parents) contribute approximately $18,000 a year (with over a 9% expected increase). It is disturbing that Achilles Rink should be so profit-oriented as to suppress UnionCollege school spirit by inciting anger and frustration. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD On behalf of many students, we are writing to seek a change in the policy of distributing hockey tickets. For example, it is unfair that administrators can collect lD's from ·other faculty members in order to obtain their TWO per ID complimentary tickets. We believe that any Union student who wishes to participate in the enthusiasm and excitement of watching the Skating Dutchmen should have that opportunity without charge. If the ,recent lack .of .availability of student tickets is an · indication offutore trends, then we believe a change should be considered. Andi Goldberg - '90 Rob Raphael - '90 l,

' \ . ··' .' 'Union. Students Need Fuller Education · To ,J;he Editot: . To the Editor: petformanees was unable to Tbe Bla~k and Latin Alliance of. Students deeply :regret tbe caneellaton of the programs scheduled and advertised for Febrjlary 5 through February 7, in c~lebration ofBlack History arrive in Schenectady on time, ' and failed· ·to . contact . us '\ It is opvioas that some of · · the students here at Union are regardin~ their delay .. We tbank . the Colleg¢ ·conunullity for its. not receiving a well-rounded .a.~tic~pated. participation and education. Three separate hope that. you will join us in statements in the Febr.uary 2, · 1989 issue of The Month. · future prograins. C on cor die n sis reek .of The touring company that was under contract for the \. '• . . . . . . Sincerely, Black and Latin Alliance of Stl.idents · ... TANNING.SALON ...... ···-,. c ·: •• -...._ ,~VA T~nning -No ~urnlng· Hair Desigus SIGH UP BY FEB. 15 519' UNION ST., SCHENECTADY, NY - ... ---.- ~ ~ ~ ----:..,. ... _.~ ..!!\-- ~ \!'- ·~- ... ~ : 10 SESSIONS -- ' . . ' . f . . : . $20 - R-. $30~00 - : - -~ : . ._ · Valld·Witl:i Co~Jpon Only! .. : -~~-~·----------------- ignornace about minority stpdents. The first article, \Students Speak Out On TV Talk Show,\ reters to a statement· by sophomore Tracey Pryluck in which she states that minorities inflict prejudice upon themselves by not mixing. with the majority. This was referred to as the \cafeteria ;syndrome\: by the guest speaker on the show. The · \cafeteria syndrome'' refers to the situation where minority students sit together during dining hours. IS it ridiculous to assume that the reason minorities ten<J to stick together on this campus is because of the discrimination many minorities feel from the student maJority? Many . minorities here feel invisible and excluded from campus social life. We; as well as other . t:ninority ·students, can attest to · this simply because qf actual experiences ·at social functions · pn . camp1,1s. Sitting ~ogether during dining hours can be seen as a defense mechanism against further discomfoa In any case, the questions must also be askcil as to how can :a group of ~===============:::=::;:;;;;.:;:;;~;;~~ . people inflict prejudice upon • themselves _by simply TOYOTA PARTS AND SERVICE ;.:~ ·.i·.<·_,, . '~ '.- ·. ·rc:HECK .. OUI. ·sPE'CIALSI . . . ·. - - - _· . . . ~~-~------~~-------------~--------, ~> · ·To·yota Quality Ser~ice I I . I . \ I. '· 0 :CHANGE· WITH :ALTER $.19.95 with Coupon ~- •!~tdudes up to 5 quarts of oil and genuine T ¢yota double-filt~ring oil fiHer. : , ~:· •complete under\the hood cheek of all beks, hoses and .flUid l~vels. I I ~------~---~.-------------------~~ . -· TOYOTA QUALITY who could ask for anything more ~-~~-~-------~------------·------- · Stude_nt ·10% I .. i' ··Discount . with coupon . I ) ' sitting together? Someone has to be inflicting prejudice upon tli,eni b6'Gause / they· group together. So . you see tb.e prejudice is the cause of the . grouping together, and not the grouping together the cause of. the prejudice. In \A View of Sports,\ Rob Raphael attempts to explain J;>rop 48 and his reasqriing in suppc:w:t. of it. He asks .. \What is Thompson. arguing ab0ut?J' He reasons. that a 700 oh the S.A1'. is not much to ask for and that somehow the students are being done a favcr by not being subjected to the rigorous course load of these institutions. First of all, he needs to realize that at the core of tllis issue are students from adisadvantaged background and their education. It has been proven that these students have not been afforded an equal educational opportunity and that the S . .A. T. is biased against them. Mr. Raphael cites Chris Washburn as an example as to what can happen when such a student is placed in tbe aforementioned situati()n. He also cites the low grad11-ation rate of Memphis · State basketball players. He fails to point out that John Thompson runs a very successful program in which neatly · ~11 of his players graduate with a degree. Studen:ts such as Thompson's players would never reeeive the opporl,llnity to receive a good education if it were not for the scholarships. The low gradrmtion rate -of students like those in Memphis State can be attri\)uted in part to the lack of care :given by the coaches and admi11istraton, and not specifically to the inability of the students to handle the wor.k.. ··Mr. Raphael's alternative to Prop 48 is ridiculous. To b~gip with, a very low percentage of college athletes make .it to the profes-sional level and to assume that most are there to simply play spor~ is ignorant. Many stu.d~nts realize that the only' way to afford a decent education is to win an athletic scholarship. His proposal to set up a \minor lea_gue\ simply means the exploitation of t!!e student's athletic talent without giving them a chance for a quality educaton. In the third article, \Mouthing Off,\ by Andy Braver, he defends the granting of college scholars:hips to athletes. We agree with his argument. However, his statement that, \if your grades are low, and if your S.A.T. scores are bad, or in other words, if you are a minority,\ is a dangerous generalization. His argument is well intentioned, but generalizations such as this imply that all minorities have both low S .A. T. scores and low grades. This is not the case .. WE had neither low grades nor bad S.A.T. scores. We beleive that all of the above mentioned statements stem ·from ignorance and are not meant to be racist. It is · impcmmt to be aware of what people say or write without being properly educated. A well-rounded education is obviously not being obtained here at Union. Ignorance about issues concerning African- Americans, Jews, Hispanics, Asians, and women will continue unti'l the Union administration takes it upon itseif to educate its .students more fully. . Larry D. Lowe, '89 Joseph F. Voyticky, '89 ~~:~---~--~-~--~------~&------··---· Roses Are ·R-ed .. . ' The Real· Thing _Erom NOTI·CE V ALENTlNE'S DAY .. APPROACHES WE SELL EVERYTHING BUT THE ARROW MAI:N FLOR,IST · W·est Campbell Rd. 377--6389 Balloons, roses, floral arrangements, candy, stuf-fed animals. Call us. We deliver to your door (or his or hers.) . . Viole1s ·Are Blue .. . The RATHSKELLAR. has a Valentine drawing for you!! Stop by and register to win a Russell Stover Box of Candy. The drawing will be held Feb. 14. .. /B!:::r::~t~:

·1 i ·' ' CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 Page U Touring Company Fails To Arrive To the Editor: The Black and Latin Allian.ce of Students deeply regret the cancellaton of the programs schedaled and advertised for Febr!Jary 5 through February 7, in celebration of Black History Month. performances was 11na.ble to arrive in Schenectad:y on time, ·' and failed to c&ntact us regarding their delay. We thank the College commu11ity for its anticipated particip~tion and hope that you wiU jo-in us in future .programs. The touring company that was under contract for the Sincerely, Black: and Latin Alliance .0;{ Students TANNING SALO:N UVA Tanning -No Burnlng • nantgans Hair De-signs · SIGN UP BY .FEB. 15 519 UNION ST., SCHENECTADY, NY :- ---- -io- siss1oNs .. --- -: j $20 Reg. $30.00 j . Valid With Coupon On ly I 372-0007 MON. ·IRI. SAI.9-6 TOY-OTA PARTS AND SERVICE. . . l . CHECK OUR SPECI:ALSI ---------------------------~------ Toyota Quality Ser•ice 0 OIL CHANGE WITH FILTER $19.95 witll Coupon ~ ' •includes up to 5 quarts of oil and genuine Toyota double-filtE!!ring oil filter. •complete under-the hood check of all behs, hoses and fluiid levels. I I ~-----------~--------------------­ . TOYOTA QUALITY who could ask for anything more ~----·---------------------------- S!udent 10% D1scount with coupon ~----~---------~------------------ ·There's Nothing Like The Real Thin11lrom NOTICE VALENTINE'S DAY APPROACHES WE SELL EVERYTHING BUT THE ARROW MAIN FLORIST West Campbell Rd. 377-6389 Balloons, roses, floral arrangements, candy, stuffed animals. Call us. We deliver to your door (or 11l.s o.r hers.) Union Students Need Fuller Education ·1 o the Editor: It is obvious that some of tlle students here at Union are not receiving a well-rounded education. Three separate statements in the February 2, 1989 issue of T h e Concordiensis reek of ignornace about minority students. The first article, \Students Speak Out On TV Talk Show,\ refers to a statement by sophomore Tracey Pryluck in which she states that minorities inflict prejudice upon themselves by not mixing with the majority. This was referred to as the \cafeteria syndrome\: by the guest speaker on the show. The \cafeteria syndrome\ refers to the situation where minority students sit together during dining hours. Is it ridiculous to assume that the reason minorities tend to stick together on this campus is because of the discrimination many minorities feel from the student majority? Many minorities here feel invisible and exduded from campus social life. We, as well as other minority students, can attest to tllis simply because of actual ·experiences at social functions ()n campus. Sitting together dllring dining hours can be seen as a defense mechanism against further discomfort. In any case, tile questions must also be asked as to how can a group of people inflict prejudice upon tllemselves by simply sitting together? Someone has to be inflicting prejudice upon them because they group together. So you see the prejudice is the cause of the grouping together, and not the grouping together the cause of the prejudice. In \A View of Sports,\ Rob Raphael attempts to explain Prop 48 and his reasoning in support of it. He asks, \What is Thompson arguing about?\ He reasons that a 700 on the S.A.T. is not much to ask for and that somehow the students are being done a favor by not being subjected to the rigorous course load of these institutions. First of all, he needs to realize that at the core of this issue are students from a disadvantaged background and their education. It has been proven that these students have not been afforded an equal educational opportunity and that the S.A.T. is biased against them. Mr. Raphael cites Chris Washburn as an example as to what can happen when such a student is placed in the aforementioned situation. He also cites the low graduation rate of Memphis State basketball players. He fails to point out that John Thompson runs a very successful program in which nearly all of his players graduate with a degree. Students such as Thompson's players would never receive the opportunity to receive a good education if it were not for the scholarships. The low graduation rate of students like those in Memphis State can be attributed in part to the lack of care given by the coaches and administraton, and not specifically to the inability of the students to handle the work. Mr. Raphael's alternative to Prop 48 is ridiculous. To begin with, a very low percentage of college athletes make it to the professional level and to assume iliat most are there to simply play sports is ignorant. Many students realize that the only way to afford a decent education is to win an athletic scholarship. His proposal to set up a \minor league\ simply means the exploitation of the student's athletic talent without giviftg them a chance for a quality cducaton. In the third article, \Mouthililg Off,\ by Andy Braver, he defends the granting of college scholarships to athletes. We agree with his argument. However, his statement that, \if your grades are low, and if your S.A.T. scores are bad, or in other words, if you are a minority,\ is a dangerous generalization . His argument is well intentioned, but generalizatious such as this imply that all minorities have both low S.A.T. scores and low grades. This is not the case. WE had neither low grades nor bad S.A.T. scores. We beleive that aU of the above mentioned statements stem from ignorance and are not meant to be racist. It is important to be aware of what people say or write without being properly educated. A well-rounded education is obviously not being obtained here at Union. Ignorance abo11t issues concerning African- Americans, Jews, Hispanics, Asians, and women will continue until the Union administration takes it upon itself to educate its students more fu1Iy. Larry D. Lowe, '89 Joseph F. Voyticky, '89 Roses Are Red . . Violets Are Blue ... The RATHSKELLAR has a Valentine drawing for you!! Stop by and register to win a Russell Stover Box of Candy. The drawing will be held Feb. 14.

Page· _IZ CONCORDIENSIS Ffbr11ary 9, 1989 WINTERFEST 1989 9:00-U :00 pm · CABARET witl!l Dutch Pipers, Garnet Minstrels, Sean Kelly,. . Andy Moss, Dan'a Hagstrom, Joe McKuin, Ray Ashley and Becky Thayer. n :oo am .. t:oo pm SH·OCiT YOURSELF College Center Atrium 7:00-6:00 pm. · Have your .photo taken with f.r:iends for the yearbook. R.A. AUCTION Coll~ge Genter Atrium Rent some time .from an. R.A. Get your laundry done, your room cleaned or your shoes shined. 7:00-8:00 pm ICE CREAM. SOCIAL College Center Atrium Come and e<~t some FREE ice cream. Sponsored by Social Alternatives· · · . .Gommittaa. . · ~ ... ~ ..... , ... ~- -... 'i >' ··~.J t:00-8:00 pm PENNY TOSS ' Proce·eds go to be-n~tit:M:S; $pQilsored·by. Circle K 8:'410 pm C-;»llege Center Atrium ~ .. ~· ' ~ ~ : ; ' 1 ~ ')I .... - ; . -:..- .. ..: ' ,. ' · LIVE BAND \THE POPES'' Colie{le · Ctt1ter Attlulli · Come danc1:11o tht new sound of the Popes. Sponsored by Conc~ut Commjtt$e, Social Commitee,- And SOcial Alternative Committee. · - ' . 9 :01» pm - 12:00 llm B.L.A.S. OPEN HOUSE Bronner House Come :and join the membErs of B.LA. S. for a movie and some munchi!'!s. , .. , .. .,\ 7,.9, 11 pm FILM \BODY HEAT;' ' ' THURSDAY, FEBRUARY· 9 - SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12 . ·~

CONCORDlENSlS Februat1 9~ 1989 w.· .. ·INTER.FEST ..•. 1·989 . . ·-· . SATU~D-AY ,· FEB ... 11· 11-:oo ·am- 2:oo pm SKELLA·R BRUNCH skellar Punch your meal ~rd or pay $2 for an all you can eai brunch. Sponsored b~ Social Committee and IFC Social Policy Committee. t:00·3:~oo p.m SN.OW . CONES Sponsored by B.l.A.S. College Center Atrium 1:oo- s:oo pm VENDORS Co liege Center Sweaters, records, and jewelry at a low price. 2:oo .: 4:oo pm JEOPARD-Y College Center Atrium Come test your knowledge about Union trivia. 3:oo-s:oo pm ' .. _, . - t ..... HOT CHOCOLATE· AND MUNCHIES . ..~ .. ~ . ~ponsored by Social Committee College Center Atrium 8:00 pm .. : .. COMEDIAN CAROL LEIFER Memorial chapet Tickettl available at the box affice. $2.00~ Sponsored by Speakers Forum. 7,9, 11 FILM \BODY HEAT\ .... THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 9 - SATURDAY, --FEBR·UARY 12

Page 14 CONCORDIEdVSJS Februar-, .~, 19~9·. . ' J ~ : ~ I ! ··~ 1 . ~ j ! f j I ' I . I j .. I

) ) ) ) I I I ? 7 ' .. ~. . :· ~ ... ~ . .. - ' i! I .j \ -! Pitge · rs SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Treatment·OJ' surfaCe :.' - ' ' Water For Drinking By KEVIN GARDNER that enables the very small particles and the dissolved There is one aspect of particles to either settle or be engineering that is not a filtered ou·t. Coagulation ·maintenance of a .societal literally means to d-rive standard, but a necessity for to.gether. \Operati-onally life. Human life as well as the coagulaton is achieved by :survival of the ecosystems adding the appropriate chemical around us hinges on the ·~thicl:l causes particles to stick availability of clean water. :ugether when contact is Water treatment may be the ~l•a<le.\ Coagulation is based on oldest form. of' tmgineering. colloidal chemistry, colloids \Impure water should be being pliiticles smaUer than - purifie<:llly hei1:1g·\b6ijed over\a. one · micr.on. The basis of fire, or being heat¢d in. the sun, -~;olloid diemfs try is · the or by dipping a heated itol1 into reGog.uition that it is large Filter day duringbackwashing. it, or it may be purifed by numbers of very stnal1 particles filtration through sand .and being d~t with. Therefore, the settling velocities of the out in the sedimentation tank. grain size decreases with The most Widely used filter is a ·· increasing depth. Typical grain granualr media, gravity.· fed size values are 2 mm. at the filter. The water is for:ced top and .2mm at the bottom. c9ur.se graveland;then allo~ed surface atea of the partides is particulate. Typically, the to cool.\ Tliis:,quotatiori -was . rrlucll more Important than incoming water will be · taken form a b.aok of Indian, their . weight. There are. two channeled 1:0 the bottom of the ·· inedicallore and is said to -date · · basic ·classifications -of colleids settling basin, and will rise and from around 2000 BC, With a · that give rise to two different spill out the top. the velocity .great increase iri industty and.- 'coagulation methods. with which ·the particnlate will an ever~increasing population, Hydrophobic colloids are water- fall will be the settling water treatment is betamirig . hating, and will not react velacity minus the velocity of .much more impor.tant to world ~ .chemically with water. These the water~ Some small particles through the filter b_r the head . The filters are cleaned by of water above t!tefilter as well backwashing 'when the head as by a suct~on fro_!U~ _th~. ,, , Joss through th~ filterreaches a bottom of the frlter: ~he depth cyrtain value, usually about of the granular media ts n:sua~y eight feet. · two feet. The med1a 1s survival. This ~paper·. ·will ·typically .are clays and metals; .will fl:Gw out with the water, supported aboveunderdrains by a gravel layer, and has space in the filter box: above to provide for head. The granular media is most cours~ at. the top, and Next week, the most important and controversial step in the treatment of water will be discussed-disinfection. review the methods of water and the coagulation process is ,but the majority of the floc treatment today and consider achieved by physical reactions. ·:-~ill s11tt1e and will be scraped the outlook for tomorrow. Hydrophillic colloids are water- ·filpQ;t :the bottom of the settling Prqvif}ing ~w-atet' -safe. for loving,, and will react biisfu. and be removed. human consumption is the chemically with water. These It is possible to combine primary objective of water are starches, gums, ·and coagulation, flocculation, and treatment. .Secondly, water proteins, and coagulation is sedimentation in what is called P·ROBLEM OF THE WEEK ,. treatment attempts to make achieved by cheJIIic~ teacti.ons. a flocculator/ clarifier. The .water ~esthetically acceptable Coagulation itself occurs very flocculator/ clarifier mixes the Prove that the product of four consecutive · for 1he consumer, i.e. free_from quickly. The cOagl!lant is added · , coagulant in the influent pipe. · .. noticeable turbidity, ·c~l<i:t:~ _with ·rapid mixing, and tl;le The mixture is added to the .. positye integers cannot be a perfect square. ~-~dor, and bad taste. 'IbjJ:.d.lY.\;:4.t(\''~~l..~tion i}rog~):-~.·is . tank from the top under a hood .. -·'\ ' ~: ,.;:~:' 1 ~-t;:i;..: . . ,,.;;; ,;.. ._, the design o_f treatm.enf ih~re· comp!~te.~A:netooagtiliill.lli·#~\ ~ixt~re has ·a certain ' ... S~·lutio~s should be submitted to Lois Bing in are economtc concerns that partlcle.s are. .· st1U detention time under the hood · · · __ ··._. . · · · . govern c(}nstruction costs and submicroscopic, · a11~ ~e ·before it is forced out into the the MathematiCS Department OffiCe between the govern the method to be used · unsettleable and t;tnfilterable.- settling zone where the floc hours of9 am -11 am and ·2 pm- 4 pm, Monday in 1!eatment. !he methodu~ed . The process that. ~cc~s Sett_les andis 'removed. The -through Friday. The first correct solution ~f~~ ~~~~d~~g~n!~t~~~ ~:~~~~a~~e;_ c~~~~~f!o~ ~:;~utai!rd!!1~r i~th~~ • submitted will receive the weekly $10 prize .. tne use ()f the water after means to form a floc. saves space and costs less ta Correct solutions Will be-posted on the bulletm treatment: The differen~ us~~ of \Floc.c.ulati?n. occurs b~ a install. . . . board outside Bailey 106. Results of last week's ;.v~ter. mclu~e dnnkl~·g, chemical bndgmg or phystc~ After. sedtmentatH~n, the competition (along with this week's results) will ungatton, cooling, an~t bmler enmeshment mechamsm. ' water IS usually filtered. . . . . . , . . . feed water; all having much Flocculation is obtained by Filtration is used to remove the ·appear In the next Issue of Concord1ens1s. · different requi!ements. The gentle and prolonged mixing particulate that did not settle focus of this paper wi_ll be on until the submicroscopic the treatment of surface water particles from coagulation are to be used as drinking water. large enough to either settle Most Qf the domestic surface out by gravity or be filtered water treatment J)lant:s have out. There may be pretteatment similar design and similar necessary, as coagulation and treatment processes. The basic flocculation are sensitive to the steps to clean the water are the pH of the water. removal of turbidity; removal After flocculation the water of dissolved solids, removal of moves to sedimentation tanks. dissolved· organics; and Here the particulate. including disinfection. cbemi~al floc, is settled out by To remove turbidity, the the force of gravity. · Th:e procrssare are: Coagulation, criteria considered in the design Flocculation, Sedimentatin, of a sedimentation tank are tlie and Filtration. This sei of detention time and overflow processes is seen in mQst all rate. :!3oth <>f these treatment plants~ phenomenon would be designed Coagu1aton is the ·process for taking int~- accoun~- the \ Beat the bookstore! 3,5-. inch d,.isks only .$:2~00! ~$ · ©~o®o® ©®[]]~®[]' .. ~R®o!Tilntru®U~ ~~1 .. --- -' .. ~-~®©©n©Jfrn©rru a©cr <G ©J.Ml ~ !Yl fr 0 l1U ® fMl©l© OU.Orru @Tfr/ . Please PJan ahead and do the following: • Obtain copies of the handouts addressing personal computer systems available at Union. Copies of these handoQts are available at the College Bookstore and Computer Services, • Talk to faculty in your major field of study. , • Make a·list of the sofi.VIare packages you wouldJike to use. Investigate hardware that the listed software packages are-available on~ • Visit the IBM and Macllltosh Labs in Steinmetz Hall. Use these computers, and get feedback from other students who are using them. · • Investigate the Apple Student J-oan-to-Own Program. Information is available on this program at the College Bookstore andComputerSetvices. • Stbp by the Office of Computer Services. Talk to the student consultants there,. and to the User Services Staff. • Talk to friends who own personal computers. ·Once you've decided to make a purchase: • Complete the order form and make an appointment with the College Bookstore to place your order. • Allow sufficient shipping time - some pepular models take 10 weeks • .Allow sufficient set-up time and training time • Register for one of Computer Services Seminars Note that: • Purchases ofpersonal computer equipment from the College Bookstore are subject to a shipping and handling fee. · • Once an order is· placed, it is final. · ; Some restrictions are ill. place with respect to method ()f payment Please investigate these details at the College Bookstore.

Page 16 CONCOR'Dlf£NS1S · Februltry '9; 1'989 Terri·bJe·.·· Twins By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor Julius (Arnold Schwar- zenegger) and Vincent Benedict {Danny Devito) .are twins that only their mother can tell apart. Or so says the advertisement. They are the product of six genetic fathers, one perfect mother, two evil scientists, and hopefully one embarrassed: screen-writer, because \Twins\ is a rather unam,using film that is un:deservedly doing pretty well at the box office. Ws abeuuwo brothers who discover each other and their long-lost mother after 35 very different years. Julius, ·the perfect product of a scientific experiment, lived his entire life on a deserted topical island where he read countless novels, studied judo, and learned eight languages. Vincent, the genetic scum, was' shipped to an orphanage in Los Angeles where he evoloved from a bad kid into a worse adult. Julius learns of his brother's existence .and leaves his mentor and his tropical island to find his down-and-out, unscrupulous brother. Meanwhile, Vincent has been stealing cars on a regular basis, creating huge gambling (lebts, and sleeping with married women with big husbands, etc. The worst thing about \Twins\ is probably its plot, which goes from contrived to p:t:etty ridiculous. T}le whole genetic experiment scenario is bad enough, but then Vincent steals a car with. \a thing in the trunk\ that is worth millions to semeone named Bob in Houston. Vincent heads off to deliver tl)e-- \thing in the ;tJ:'unk'i 'with unsuspecting Julius, who thinks that they're off to-. find the mother. The brothers also heek •up with two sisters, one for each brother (how cute)and take off for New Mexico. Meanwhile, they're being hunted by the persistent and very ugly Gambliiig Family, and also the psychotic whe was supposed to be delivering the \thing in the tru:nk\. Running thr<>ughout all this Stupid action .are some equally stupid jokes: Schwar-zeiJegger recog- nizing slang: .saying that he'$ ;'pissed off''; an.d ·buying his fil:st T -shirt. HiJali()US. \Twins\ 'isn't the worst movie ever rna~ .. and it isn~t painful to sit through. It's just incredibly stupid and ·not particularly funny; sort of the comedic equi:v-al~Et of \Spies Like Us''. If they had made Devito the perfect p:r.oduct, the movie might luve actually been passable; & ~t is, Devito was wasted in a part where he cannot be as fu11nily meim and/or grotesque as usual. Every once in a while a funny line pops. up, liut they're too. scarce to compen:Sate for the rest of the film. On· the whole, definitely wait until \Twins\ comes out on liB 0, er else pay to see it if bowling championships ,are the only thing -on TV. · Winterfest Rocks By JOHN MORGAN Winterfest Weekend will provide the kick-off of the ''Winter Concert Series,\ as-' The Popes pump the Atrium· full of rock 'n roll on Friday evening at 8:00 'p.m. Two other dates are currently scheduled; The Hopheads will appear February 14 in the Atrium for a Valentine's Day dance, also beginning at 8:00, and The Wishniaks will pfay ''The Mall\ on Friday, February 24. The Popes are touring behind their successful debut record Hi, We're The Popes - a five song platter. The four piece band from North Carolina is fronted by John Elderkin, who plays guitar and holds down lead vocal duties. The Popes sound fits right into the current Southern rock sound as exemplified by early R.E.M. Guitars do not get much - \janglier and these guys are tight. While R.E.M. has --------- ----.--- ---Clip 'n' Save·----------------. I . THE WRUC NEW 8.97 ., I I I Alas, poor R.E.M., we played them well- the first .8.97 without Gr~en _since 1 I Michael D'ukakis was embarrassed coast to coast. Wt th four new entnes m the I ~ countdown WRUC breaks the sound barrier with music before it's popular. I 1 rio... Artlst Album _ · Label ~ gotten good mileage out of slick production· recently, the Popes ha-ve the energy of a garage band with heavy duty amplifiers. Their performance, sponsored J?y Concert Committee with help from Social and Social Alternatives Committees, promises to highlight Winterfest, as it will include , \Charmless'' and \Marilyn\ from the album that was the number 2 play at WRUC for three .straight weeks. Concert and Social Committees will team up again on Valentine's Day to bring The Hopheads to the campus and chicken wings to your fingers. The agenda will be similar to the highly successful presentation of the now defunct Mambo.x at Halloween when students were observed taking advantage of the blue tiles by moon-walking on them while Erin O'Hara gyrated. 1 1 i ih~~~~l~~~~e~;~\)* ~~~~~;;:n A Soul wa;:e 1 1 3 Lou Reed New York _ Sire I ' 4 The Proclaimers* Sunsbine ·On Leith Chrysalis I -. I 5 Violent Femmes 3 Slash 1 I 6 DeadMilkrnen Bee-lzebubba Enigma 1 I 7 The.Pogues (12\) \Yeah. Yeah, Yeah\ Island 1 I 8 Dinosaur Jr.* Bug SST ·t I 8.97 New Order* Technique Qwest 1 I I I *First week on the 8.97 I I . . I Eyebrow Raising Song o' the Week: The Replacements. \I Won't\ I: · 1 TRIVIA, TRIVIA, TRIVIA - Sunday night. ~ 1 Compiled by Ron Eugenio and John S. Morgan . , J I ----- ........ ~.-' _ _.. __ ......__~--------~~-----~-....,._.~~-------~- The Hophead-s are John Lombardo's new project. Lombardo was a founding member of 1 (),.000 Maniacs. He was a 'majol' song writing force for the Maniacs - his songs include \Can't Ignore the Train\ from tlleir Wishing Chair album_ Since leaving the Maniacs (prior to the recordilng of _b My Tribe) he has channeled his musical energies alongtwith his guitar. bass and vocal talents. into The Hopheads, wllo expect to release their first record in April on Wang-a Records. The Wishniaks hail from Philadelphia and arc also teuring behind a debut EP. Nauseous a11d Cranky displays their rallcous rock 'n roll instincts - which have served them well during 1i ve performances. Tiley have a:lso become an RU:C favorite. All shows will he in the Atrium free ot cllarge to Union students.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 ~~-~~·--------·A_R_T_S_& __ E_N_T~E_R_T_A_I_N_M~E_N_· T_· --------~~- COCKTAILS Terrible Twins Icerock& ill Whiskey, . L(il:\)Qn rlll;ds· jJl.your cup,. ··. souriiss~s at·seWen, ·and grin . Sip swrul,ow, sip swallow, chug~ ¢fi;'ti1V · . - ' ''· .-' ~ ... Sipisw~loWi'sil!' sw~ow, win a battle with the bottle and d<rwn it an··aw'$1';'•.··· .····· '. Sip swallow, sip swalltl);w, say familiar lines, Delve into yo111; i;n,t~nti;cins; . exagerations, . mixed with q;u~h,. tun<i.ng$t~ s~ · Sip·swallow, Sijr:$wai~W:; s·t~p' ·.·· . outside. Cold Wit)~·;· · :.·.s~f.,~Cl1\lJ.Jl()~tr'j-~ aru.J .. n~bness w:at'mS !o· . yo.t~J;n,s~<te~ .. .·· .·:•· By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editer Julius (Arnold Schwar- zenegger) and Vincent Benedict (Danny Devito) ru;e twins that only their mother can tell apart. Or so says the advertisement. They are the product of six genetic fathers, one perfect mother,. two evil scientists, and hopefully one embarrassed screen-writer, becaHse \Twins\ is a rather unamusing film that is undeservedly doing pretty well at the box office. It's about two brothers who discover each other and their long-lost mother after 35 very different years. Julius, the perfect product of a scientific experiment, lived his entit:e life on a deserted topical island where he read countless novels, studied judo, and learned eight languages. Vincent, lhe genetic scum, was shipped to an orphanage in Los Angeles where he evoloved from a bad kid into a worse adult. Julius learns of his bi<>ther's existence and leaves bis mentor and his tropical islnrd to find his down-and-out, unscrupulous brother. Meanwhile, Vincent has been sle.aUng cars on a regular basis, creating huge gambling debts, and sleeping witfu married women with big husbands, etc. The worst thing about \Twins\ is pr,obably its plot, which goes f.n>m contrived to ptetty ridiculous. The whole genetic ex}'leriment scenario is bad enough, tut then Vincent steals a car witll \a thing in the trunk\ that is worth millions to someone named Bob in Houston. Vincent heads off to deliver the '\tiling in the trunk\ with unsuspecting Julius, wh.o thinks that tiley'r.e off to find the mother. Tile brothers also hook up wi til two sisters, one for each broth-er (how cute) and take off f()r New Mexico. Meanwhile, they're being hunted by llle persistent and very ugly Gambling Family, and also the ~~ychotic who was supposed to be delivering the \thing in the trunk\. Running throughout all this stupid action are some equally stupid jokes: Schwarzenegger recog- nizing slang: saying that he's \pissed off\; and buying his first T-shirt. Hilarious. \Twins\ isn't the worst movie ever made, and it isn't painful to sit through. It's just incredibly stupid and not particularly funny; sort of the comedic equ1valent of \Spies Like Us\. If they had made Devito the perfect product, the movie might fuave actually been passable. As it is, Devito was wasted in a part where he cannot be as funnily mean and/or grotesque as usual. Every once in a while a funny line pops up, but they'te too scarce to compensate for the rest of the film. On the whole, definitely wait until \Twins\ comes out on HBO, or else pay to see it if bowling championships are the <>nly thing on TV. Winterfest Rocks Capital, Be.p;; ... A:tbany,.~~····\ .... \ ... ,..,.·!~h:.·· ·· Starting Sat. &~00. $Giien!lattY.-t:Ht;;n. ~()ss~·~ · · PuHitzer Pri.ze winning play ~bout the world.~f·~m.<!rjc$1 business. HaJf .. Moon Caf~, Albany ........ ~ .......... 436·•ft3i9 Thurs. Acoustic Rock by Chris O'Leary; \Artist> comedian, butt-kicking guitarist\. Fri. Jazz by Randy and Naomi Peterkin. Call for further information. Main St., Schenectady ................... 372;.5656 Today through Sunday: Colonial Festival. Schenectady:s Heritage cclebrtion including French, Dutch. and Iroquol8 cullural demonstrations, horse parade, concerts~ exhibits, running race, p.ony rides and more. Union CoHeg~. College Center. Fri., Sat., Sun., 7, 9, 11. \Body Heat\. Arts Department. Fri .. 7:30. Winter Improv. Series: \Zen Music of Japan\. By JOHN MORGAN Winterfest Weekend will provide the kick-off of the \Winter Concert Series,\ as The Popes pump the Atrium full of rock 'n roll on Friday evening at 8:00 'p.m. Two other dates are currently scheduled; The Hopheads will appear February 14 in the Atrium for a Valentine's Day dance, also beginning at 8:00, and The Wishniaks will play \The Mall\ on Friday, February 24. The Popes are touring behind their successful debut record Hi, We're The Popes - a five song platter. The four piece band from North Carolina is fronted by John Elderkin, who plays guitar and holds down lead vocal duties. The Popes sound fits right into the current Southern rock sound as exemplified by early R.E.M. Guitars do not get much \janglier and these guys are tight. While R.E.M. has ----------------Clip I 'n' Save·--------------- 1 I THE WRUC NEW 8.97 I I I I I I Alas, poor R.E.M., we played them wen - the first 8.97 without Green since Michael Dukakis was embarrassed coast to coast. With four new entries in the countdown, WRUC breaks the sound barrier with music before it's popular. N.Q... Artist Album 1 Elvis Costello (12\)* \Veronica\ 2 The Replacements Don't Tell A Soul 3 Lou Reed New York 4 The Proclaimers* Sunshine· On Leith 5 Violent Femmes 3 6 Dead Milkmen Beelzebubba 7 The Pogues (12\) \Yeah Yeah, Yeah\ 8 DinosaurJr.* Bug 8.97 New Order* Technique *First week on the 8.97 Eyebrow Raising Song o' the Week: The Replacements. \I Won't\ TRIVIA, TRIVIA, TRIVIA - Sunday night. Compiled by Ron Eugenio and John S. Morgan Label Wamer Sire Sire Chrysalis Slash Enigma Island SST Qwest I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ,I ~ ' I I------------------------------------ gotten good mileage out of slick production recently, the Popes have the energy of a garage band with heavy duty amplifiers. Their performance, sponsored by Concert Committee with help from Social and S()cial Alternatives Committees; promises to highlight Wi11terfest, as it will include - \Citarmless\ and \Marilyn\ from the album that was the nllmber 2 play at WRUC f()r three straight weeks. Concert and Social Committees will team up again on Valentine's Day to bring The llopheads to the campus and chicken wings to your fingers~ The agenda will be similar to the highly successful plcsentation of the now defunct Mambo-X at Halloween when students were observed taking advantage of the blue tiles. by moon-walking on them wili 1c Erin O'Hara gyrated. The Hopheads are John Lombardo's new pToject. Lombardo was a founding member of 10,000 Maniacs. He was a major song writing force for the Maniacs - his songs include \Can't Ignore the Train\ from their Wishing Chair album. Since leaving the Maniacs (prior to the recordilng of In My Tribe) he has channeled his musical energies along with his guitar, bass and vocal talents into The Hopheads, who expect to release their first record in April on W anga Records. The Wishniaks hail from Philadelphia and arc also touring behind a debut EP. Nauseous and Cranky displays their raucous rock ·n roll instincts - which have served them well during live performances. They have also become an RUC favorite. All shows will be in the Atrium free of charge to Union students. i''

i '· CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 Page 17 ·ARTS &· ENTERTAINMENT Goldberg looking.bored, dl;lservedly, while filming \Jumpin' Jack Flash.'' The· Good, The·B·ad, And The Ugly-- n • ~ of'Video Rentals By CAMERON KENNY· Arts Edito1· The problem with renting movies is that once you get there it's sometimes hard to find something • decent. These are some that you might want to try and others that y:ou might want to miss. Good Sid & Nancy: Interesting, depressing. Surprisingly just a good movie a\bout Sid Vicious and the punk uprising in London and New York. Five Easy Pieces: An old Jack Nicholson film, made in the '60's. Some great scenes and a pretty interesting story. Prodl!.cers: Mei Brooks at his best. With Gene Wilder. - Being There: Peter Sellers, Shirley MacLaine. Touching, thoughtful look at the absurdity of life. A little slow so you have to be in the mood for it. Mona Lisa: Michael Caine, Bob J{oskins. Small-time bad guy falls in love with the prostitute that_he chauffers. A little obscure but good. Nothing in Common: Just a nice, well-done movie with Tom Hanks, Jackie Gleason; and Eva Marie Saint. If you missed it the first time around, rent it some time. Secret Policeman's Ball (I, ll, III): There ate three of them, and they're all pretty entertaining. Some music and some comedy, for charity. Sting, Pete Townsend, Joan Artnatrading, John Cleese, and others. · .. , , .. J}l~~H~S. S.I?~J?;~•~. T~w.: IIJcre~ib1~ . fu.nny. 1 p,ru:ody of : ~ roc;kuJ!l~ntary_. Features Lenny. from ~aveme and,Siiirley' (with a Cockney accent) and Christopher Guest. Drrected by Rob Reiner. The Man Wh() Would Be S:ing: Michael Caine, Sean Connery. Excellent·movie adapted from a Rudyard Kipling story. Great story, great direction. · . . Pretty Bad White Mischief: The Bntish tn Kenya during WWII. Depraved, very pictureaque. and lots of. nice, white, British-in-A{rica-:tooldng outfits. Sounds promising, but it's incredibly pretentious and basically just annoying. Eating Raoul: A husband and wife team kill people and sell the bodies in order to raise money for a restaurant. Supposed to be offbeat but actually pretty goofy. Paris, T~xas: A Sam Shepard play starring Nastassia Kinski. Not terrible but the melodrama is relentless. Tbe last half-hour is particularly .oppressive. Volunteers: Tom Hanks, Jolln Candy. Horrendous. Jumping Jack Flash: If you want to see Whoopi Goldberg on screen, watch the new Star Trek. Just a lame spy story with a decent soundtrack, . Nacropolis: Possibly the worst movie ever made. Five actors who play all the parts, microphones dangling in the screen, and they don't even blow up a building at the end. Low-budget doesn't even begin to describe it. Jaws IV: E.ven with Michael Caine it's dreadful. The fish actually swims faster than. the plane that itS intended viCtim is flying on to get away from it. Not bad time for a shark obviously made out of plastic and paint. ·· Fresh Hor!ies: Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy. The nonsensical title should be enough of a clue. Unbelievably bad. · Surrender: Michael Caine, Sally Fields, Steve Guttenberg. Caine is suspicious of all women, Fields is a struggling artist who wears very ugly clothes, and Guttenberg is her rich but shallow boyfriend. Stupid, stupid, stupid. BLAS . Corner By JOYCE WHITTED Body Heat Fri.·.' S. a. t. $· .. l Sun. ·. • HOROSCOPES BY \Au AQUARIUS: The full moon occurs in your opposite sign of Leo .. Therefore, whether your current problems stem from unrequited love, insatiable sex drive or underachievement, you are strong enough this week to better your situation. PISCES: You will be quite the busy social butterfly this week, accepting one invitation after another. However, friends are not in a welcoming !IIOOd so it is not a good time to show off your new love interest. ARIES: This is your week to pursue romance and recreation! Ignore other's advice because this is the perfect week to let your heart rule yolir head. TAURUS: There is a lot more at stake than lost pride and bruised egos in making a move that may leave you vulnerable. Do not be afraid to wear your heart on your sleeve this week. GEMINI: Your priority this week must be to stablilize your financial situation and protect all that you have strived hard to accomplish, Begin searching for a productive way to spend your summer. Do not be sidetrackccd by appealing social opportunities. · CANCER: This weekend may be filled with excitement in every facet of your Hfe; however, do_n't overdo it Saturday evening -- you must be ready on Sunday to spend the day in the library and get on track for the coming week. LEO: This week Leos must be careful not to waste their · energy on unnecessary jealousy. Perhaps it's time you realized that you deserve better treatment than you are receiving from your mate. Move on! VIRGO: Virgos a:lways seem to be presented as unemotional and unambitious individuals when in fact you arc just ~xtremely vulnerable. This week a powerful partner of passion enters your life who understands your true nature. LIBRA: This week you may feel an overabundance of hormones. Don't be controlled by messages sent to you from below the waist. A new and intriguing romance awaits within Union College. SCORPIO: You may feel that you have been betrayed recently. Yet there are too many exciting academic developments and potential romances for you to contemplate using that Scorpio sting. SAGITTARIUS: This past week may have been an academic killer. Now that your mid-terms are finished,. reward yourself With a wild weekend -- no strings attached] CAPRICORN: This week your social life may seem very dull. However, the .near future will prove it very productive. Do not push a relationship into existence; let it ease its way. There are not many welllmown Black poets. Gwendolyn Brooks, the Pulitzer Prize winner, is recognized worldwide as is Langston· Hughes whose poem is displayed in this week's Comer. Hughes' poetry depicts the suffering that ·the Black family has endured throughout their stay here in America. This poem describes the inner torture experienced by an individual even though on the outside evetything appears to be gret. Many people go through this' feeling every day, and Hughes unvetls this feeling perfectly. WINTERFEST CABARET BecaQse my mouth . ' I Is wide with .laughter And my throat \:' ' . Is deep with song,' y 011 do not think I suffer after I have held my pain So long. Because my mouth Is wide with J;aughter Y:ou do not hear My inner cry. Beqause·my feet : \· Ate gay_with dancing You do not know I die. \-Langston H~ghes with: Dutch Pipers-Garnet Minstrels-Sean Kelly -Andy Moss-Dana Hagstrom-Joe Mckuin -Ray A~hley-Becky Thay·er Thurs. 9:00 PM CC Atrium

CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Goldberg looking bored, deservedly, while filming \Jumpin' Jack Flash.\ The Good, The Bad, And The Ugly a B • of Video Rentals By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor The problem with renting movies is that once you get there it's sometimes han! to find sorrwthing decem. These are :->omc that you might want to try and others that you might want to mis\. Good Sid & Nancy: Interesting, depressing. Surprisingly just a good movie ahout Sid \'icious and the punk uprising in London and New York. Five Eas~' Pieces: An old Jack Nicholson film, made in the !60's. Some great scenes and a pretty interesting story. Producers: Mel Brooks at his best. With Gene Wilder. Being There: Peter Sellers, Shirley MacLaine. Touching, thoughtful look at the absurdity of life. A little slow so you have to be in the mood for it. Mona Lisa: Michael Caine, Bob Hoskins. Small-time bad guy falls in love with the prostitute thatbc chauffers. A little obscure but good. Nathing in Common: Just a nice, well-done movie with Tom Hanks, Jackie Gleason, and Eva Marie Saint. If you missed it the first time around, rent it some time. Secret Policeman's Ball (I, II, Ill): There are three of them, and they're all pretty entertaining. Some music and some comedy, for charity. Sting, Pete Townsend, Joan Armatrading, John Cleese, and others. This is Spinal Tap: Incredibly funny parody of a rockumentary. Features Lenny from \Laverne and\Shirley\ (with a Cockney accent) and Christopher Guest. Directed by Rob Reiner. The Man Who Would Be King: Michael Caine, Sean Connery. Excellent movie adapted fmm a Rudyard Kipling story. Great story, great direction. Pretty Bad White Mischief: The British in Kenya during WWII. Depraved, very pictureaque, and lots of. nice, white, British-in-Africa-looking outfits. Sounds promising, but it's incredibly pretentious and basically just annoying. Eating Raoul: A husband and wife team kill people and sell the bodies in order to raise money for a restaurant. Supposed to be offbeat but actually pretty goofy. Paris, Tex:as: A Sam Shepard play starring Nastassia Kinski. Not terrible but the melodrama is relentless. The last half-hour is particularly oppressive. Volunteers: Tom Hanks, John Candy. Horrendous. Jumping Jack Flash: If you want to see Whoopi Goldberg on screen, watch the new Star Trek. Just a lame spy story with a decent soundtrack. Nacropolis: Posstbly the worst movie ever made. Five actors who play all the parts, microphones dangling in the screen. and they don't even blow up a building at the end. Low-budget doesn't even begin to describe it. Jaws IV: Even with Michael Caine it's dreadful. The fish actually swims faster than the plane that its intended victim is flying on to get away from it. Not bad time for a shark obviously made out of plastic and paint. · Fresh Horses: Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy. The nonsensical title shol:lld be enough of a clue. Unbelievably bad. Surrender: Michael Caine, Sally Fields, Steve Guttenberg. Caine is suspicious of all women, Fields is a struggling artist who wears very ugly clothes, and Guttenberg is her rich but shallow boyfriend. Stupid, stupid, stupid. BLAS Corner By JOYCE WHITTED .Body Heat ·Fri., Sat. $l Sun. • HOROSCOPES BY \A\ AQUARIUS: The full moon occurs in your opposite sign of Leo. Therefore, whether yollf current problems stem from nnrequited }()VC, insatiable sex drive or underachievement, you are strong en<Jugh this week to better your situation. PISCES: 'f. ou will be ql!lile the busy social butterfly this week, accepLing one invitation after another. However, friends are not in a welcoming mood so it is not a good time to show off your new love interest. ARIES: Tl1is is your week to pursue romance and recreation! Ignore other's advice because this is the perfect week to let your heart rule your head. TAURUS: There is a lot more at stake than lost prilk ancl bruised egos in making a move thumay kavc you \ulncrahk Do not be a.frJid to wear your h~.·arL on your ~h:·c\ L' this \\n'k. GEMINI: Your priority this wcd.; must he to stahlih;c your financial situCJLion and protect all that yuu hav~.· strived hard to accomplislll. Begin searching for a producti\'e way to .-.;pend your summer. Do not bl.' sidctr:lckccd hy appl'aling social opportuni tic-;. CANCER: This weekend may bl' filled \Vtth excitement in C\lcry facet Gf your life; however. thm't oYerdn it Saturday evening-· you must he ready on Sunday to spend the day in the library and get on track for the coming Wl.'ck. LEO: Thi \ 1\·cek Leos mu~t he carl'ful not to wa-;k lhl·ir <.:ncrgy 1m tmncccssary jcalou:-.y. Pl'rhaps 1t\ tim~.· you h'ali;~.'d that you dc:scrve b~tt~r treatment than you an: r~.·n·i\ in!! fn1111 your mate. rvlovc on! VIRGO: Virgos always seem to be prescm~.·d as uncmntiunal and unambitious individuals when in fact you ar,' jt1s! extremely vulnerable. This week u powerful partner of passion enters your life who understands your true nature. LIBRA: This week you may re~l an overabundance or hormones. Don't be controlled by messages sent to you from below the waist. A new and intriguing romance awaits within Union College. SCORPI 0: You may feel that you have been betrayed recently. Yet there are too many exciting academic dcvclopmc!l~S and potential romances for you to contemplate using that S carpio sting. SAGITTARIUS: This past week may have been an academicl<illcr. Now that your mid-terms arc finished, reward yourself witll a wild weekend -- no strings attached! CAPRICORN: This week your social life may seem very dull. However, the near future will prove it very productive. Do not puslt a relationship into existence; let it case its way. Who 1 s Haey Cnun'b? (PQ-13) Beaches (PG~ 13) Three 1?ngitives (PG-13) The Fly Il {R) Wmking (l:irl (R) Rain Man CR) Her Alibi (PG) Twins (PO) Ace. Tourist (PO) Tap(PG) Rail? Man {R) Oliver & Co. (G) Naked Gun (PG-13) There are not many well known Black poets. Gwendolyn Brooks, the Pulitzer Prize winner, is recognized worldwide as is Langston Hughes whose poem is displayed in this week's Comer. Hughes' poetry depicts the suffering that the Black family has endured throughout their stay here in America. This poem describes the iiiDer torture exJJerienced by an individual even though on the outside everything appears to be gret. Many people go through this feeling every day, and Hughes unveils this feeling perfectly. WINTERFEST CABARET Because my mouth Is wide with laughter And my throat Is deep with song, You do not think I suffer after I have held my pain So long. Because my mouth Is wide with laughter You do not hear My inner cry, Because my feet Are gay with dancing You d.o not know I die~ --Langston Hughes with: Dutch Pipers-Garnet Minstrels-Sean Kelly -Andy Moss-Dana Hagstrom-Joe Mckuin -Ray Ashley-Becky Thayer Thurs. 9:00 ·PM CC Atrium

I, \ Page 1s CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE, INC. 349 Anthony Street MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (51.8.) 377,2268 (24 Hr. Towing· 374·10.67) Schenectady,, NY C. Demereski :F\altxr~ BT~ort;w (sls~ 374~4ooo \Express it with Flowets\ 96 Jay Street NATURESCAPE DESIGNS (Cor; of Jay&: Uberty St.) Schenectady, N.Y. 12305 i:wo_ spruce pot te rv WHEEL-THROWN STONEWARE. 158 JAY STREET • SCHENECTADY, NY 12305 (51~) 39~~5011 .SHOWROOM HOURS: Tues. to-5; ThtJrs. 12'-8 and by app\. SPECIAL VALENTINES llEMS! PAUL'S N~Y. PIZZERIA Pizza, footlong subs, calzones, $1.00 off 8 cut &. 12 cut with toppings for Union students and f.aculty only 823 MCCLeLLAN STREET, SCHENECTADY, NV' 12304 . ' 382·8210-:- ASK ABOUT FREE DEUVERV S:.PECIALS THROUGH FEB. 14 · • Men's Haircuts are $9.00. Ask ·for Luann, JoAnn. •Women's Haircuts are $13.00. Ask .for Luann, Joann. • Perms and Highlighting are $10.00 9ff. Ask for Lynn, Luann, JoAnn, Beth • Facials and Pedicures are $10~00 off. Ask for Lynn. ATTENTION: ESCORT- SERVICE USERS FREE YOURSELF & YOUR SCHEDULE Watch for the Self-defense I Workshop FEB. 21, 1989 7:00 PM ·SPONSORED BY THE IFC\' NIGHT. SKIING!·· 112 price {$6):with College ID Wli..:LARO MOUNTAIN Monday-Saturday 6-1 0 pm Call 692~7337 for more info. The Department Of. The Arts, Philosophy Of Women'·s Studies Union College Present PROFESSOR S'ELMA KRAFT Siena CoHeg,e FEMI·NIST AESTHEJI.C.S: THE FI·RST STEP Agenda: organizational lss~es · Speaker: Mike Frp.me Asst. Professor of Ma1hemati<:S \EXploring fraclals on a·. Macintosh\ . QuesliOns/Answers .., - ....... February 10 ll\lmunities Bldg •. ; Ibn. 115 3:30PM · . ·'· Reception irrirnediah~ly following colloql:iium in Humanities Lounge THE ECONOMICS CLUB w.ill be sponsoring. a lecture given by PETER CATALA~NO, Assistant to the · NYS Public Service , Commission; on Feb. 16 from 4-~ pm. Mr. Catalano advises the PSC in setting. the rates and on other major iss'ues. In 88103 Presenting': .. ·. M . . U/C MU:G · .-· A . \ a .;, , ecce c T 0 S· H· u s E R G· R 0 u p - ... Cc;409 • :: ·r,·.. ~ ' tl \.;. ,q!itn~ and fa~e; part in this new vent~re for J8H~ ..... .. ~.-,'lt:~rs YOUR u~~r group· - for YOUR ne~ds and ;tA1erests. -:. \<Y.du wUI 111ak~Ahe ,difference... ·, N'J · . . · i : '. .,._ . .r Eli'ERYO!Ii~ 'IS WELCOME! . _. i (I •• -.._ .:;, ; - ·::\.·:rn · - ' ::, ~ ~ Tell your roommate ..• tell your coll~ague .•• t~I!~;Your~bos~ .. ~ tell everyone lntete~fed In learning more abo11t the M~clntosh. ' ' Any questions please contact .. ~ . . . Susan Brienza or Theresa Pardo at 6293 . . : . ' . -. -. ~ : . VALENTINE'S DAY BALLOON-S:·. Available Now In The College Center Association for Computing Machinery

CONCORDIENSIS February 9, 1989 Page 19 z -- = ·CAMPUS :NEWS · Con firm ati on ~· Th.·t's· lj. ..· . · .· ·· · ... · . ·· ... . . , . making the weekend special. It Hot nights, cool frozen drinks, C_L_UB_. · ·-·· _. _N_E_. ·_w_._s_· ___ ... spri~g~ . Bishop Hubbard will . PERSONALS doosn't make leaving any reggae music, sandy Campus Ministry Pt o1e;stant M or n in g p r aye r continues every weekday frotn 8:15 - 8:3'5 a.m. in the 4th floor lounge of the Colllege Center. . admtmster the Sacrament Of , . , easier, though. See ya in two, ·• <·beaches .. :affordable spring Confirmation i•n St. John the l;\ · · . · . · ' Love ya, Myron ' break trips to Jamaica, . Evangelist Church .. ·Union · EmmaGarcta fT-FC.2), -~ Acapulco, Cancun,and , s.ruden ts are invited to Sorry, ther.e s been an · To Friends- Hi! Daytona. Call Russell at 432- . · participate. Any Union student . emerg~ncy in AJ~any. It's me wishing all of y0u a 5718 for details. ·who bas not ben confirmed Lo11:ts & Owe 812 Happy Valentine's day! Hope ; may contact Sr. Joan 404B your \sweethearts\ come Colleg.e Center who will Vinnie steps up ~o ·the line ~ · through for you. Happy V- . ar:tange meetings to. assist will she be 5 for l() or stay at .. Day to All!~ students in their preparation. 4 for 10?? Sha-love '91 · Bible study takes place -::::;~===~==~=! .. each 'thursday in CC 205 from \\ ~ 1.,------~--~-- Beyond West, a panorama of Luv, T. Spring break '89. vacatim1 packages are here!! Travel to Jamaica,. Acapulco, Cancun and Daytona. Complete trips starting at $399. 11:30 - 12:45 .. We are cUitently . c..LAs SIFIEDS Pot, naked idiots stretches to the Mudpack - looldng..at .Biblical dreams anQ' ' Thanks for sticki11garound and horizon. Congratulations!! I'm psyched visions. Please bring your awn Tutoring·. Union College ..------------~~-----........,-----~------~-~_._----. lunch or bring your tray from students can be used in the the Upperclass Dining Room. following areas at St. John's · • All are welcome! .. School: Kindergarten and Math · Sunday wurship is from 6:00 - .6:45 p.m.. in the 4th floor lciunge · of the College Center. - Advance into Lent with a retreat! 6:.30 Friday, 2/10 - 3, Saturday, 2/11. RPI, Rus.sell Sage~ SUNY A and- Unioa students will gather .at First Baptist Manse ·to play, pray and study .toge.ther. Theme: \Spiritual Leaders; Spiritual Journeys.\ Cost $5. Cal1 x:.6618. . There will be a mid· week vespe·rs service throughout Leqt · on Wednesdays fre>m 4:30- 5.:0() p.m. in the 4th floor lounge of the C()llege Center beginning on 2/15. This will be a time of silence, song and candlelight. All are welcome. I i Merton . Tapes - Friday, Feb. 10 at noon, all are welcome to bring a brown. bag · lunclt and listen to a Mert6n Tape in CC494B. ., . Valentine Visif to Nursing Homes - Sund;~y. February 12 an)' student .who wishes to visit Hallmark & Silver Haven· t() bring a Valentine Greeting please meet at the ~C Circle at l p.m~ ·We will return by l p.m. . Monday Nigbt' Suppers ·- February 13 ·at 5 p.m. in CC203 either use your meal plan · or b:ring your own and join Professor Ted Bick .. Mathematics Department f()r . Aides and Reading on a one~ to- one. Please contact Sheila · .Hennigan 3864353. , Folk Gr9up - All singers . and rnus:icians interested in • being put of the Music ·Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday M~ss please meet at · 6:30 p.m. in the church to • rehearse. Visiting Shut-ins ~ Any ·• Union student who wishes to visit a s.hl.lt~in on _a regular . , . I basis during these dreary winter · months, please contact Geni • Borne 372-3381. ·. ·convetsiiti:\lthviii.lP.'-~ il}for~Pa:1.~ · , \'. ~ .., .... '/::.,,$:\~ -~- ,, ':ot! ~-- l- .\· prese~tjo}l,:~A:U 'W.@.J.O'onje: ·• :~ .:•: ', :.,;1 ..- ••.• --:t:;.:• .---· ' •• :. ;• ~ ...; •: _, - Catholic Adult Video EducationSeries • Tuesdays from 4:30 · 5 p.m. in Room 204 of the College Center Sr. ~ oall will ·provide . an· ,Opportunity for students to · ;update and discuss faith,issues ;witlt the Apostle's ~reed. as a guicle. tueschiy, Feb 14, -\Who Do· You. Say That I Am?\ Part I. All welcome. Attendance at prior sessions not necessary. ()verQ:ight Retreat - Friday, Februaty 17 at 5 p.m. to Saturday~ February 18 at 5 p.m. at 1630.Nott Street. Plan now to inake a retreat for Lent. Theme: Spiritual Growth and Self-Concept. To . help us become aware that a positive self-image is- the basis ()f loving acceptance of others and a necessary condition for becoming open to oneself,. to, others and t<i God. A donation of SS when you register with Sr.- Joan. N.Ol'ICE••••••••••••••HeNOTICE•• .. ••••••••••••••NOTICE CtiANGE TO 1988-89 ACADEMIC CALEN~DAR The foll.ovving changes have been made to the current year's (19.88-89) academic·calendar . Winter 1erm examinations will begin on Tuesday, March 14 instea~ of on Wednesday, March 15 as previously announced. Spring Term examinations will end on Thursday, June 8 instead of on Wednesday, June 7 as previously announced CIIAN.GES 10 1988-89 ACADEMIC CALENDAR NOTICE•••••••••••••-•NOTICEN-•••••• .. •-•NOTICE . .. IIN!71FJ~ T tf}()l< 1fT 1!{t V!r.5T1111fAt.7H WITH/tV f1!3:'8£11f11Y Oi11ffff .PI'IFJV/llt ••.

' ; ~ .. , · Page 20 CONCOR.DIENSIS Peln:llary 9, 1989 PERSONALS but I'll miss you a lot. Union won't be the same without you! YFC.l, 1 week left, enjey it while it lasts. OWE~l2 To My Doctor: Thank you for taking such good care of me. I loved my private room and best of all the milkshake. Love always; C. :Brett. Spring break '89 vacation packages are here! l Travel to Jamaica, Acapulco, Cancun~ and Daytona. Complete tri}>'.s starting at $399. Hot nights~ co-Ql frozen drinks, reggae music, sandy beaches ... afforclable Spring break trip& t() Jamaica, Acapulco, Ca11cun, and Daytona. Call Russell at 432- {)718 for d\ltails. Wake N' B!Ue. In beautiful· Negril,. Jamaica .. Unbelievable Spring br~ ]package· start.ing at $439. Call Sun Splash Tours at t..:g()(') ... 425-7710. Janice, Happy Birtltd2y'! Where have you been aU vteek. I miss you! Love you! Amanda. Don't Miss O~t. Dutchman's Night, Feb. 15. Free Flowers. I have a stro11g .desire to return to Scotia aild. teach theology. My name is Bob Lindyberg. To My Little Sis 1Ceuy, • Now you know wbol am, I ·• hope you are as happy as me! Love, Lisa Cathy and .Julie, Shculd we invite Greg to your hollse this weeken.dr? Is this weekend the SDT formal or the ZBT formal? Rainman, Stop whining or you'll be doing some serious chores. Love Wilson A. · Well, I'd rather go with one of them than with a guy who drives a, Pink Truck:! Stanley, , I feel like baby bear ..• Somebody'sbeen sleeping in my bed .• .Oh, it's only Nuss. Gladys, · February 12, 19 & 26 at 8.:00 p.m. 15iliV~A . . . --·--- _ -~··- ~--· .. ~--- _ -Win ex.citing hes. ~:\uJI7i_ 1 ' • i Jl.; p. riz~s. !_ C .. ». : .. s, \·--. -·__,_ ==:. ~ \ T .. shirts, G1ft {~ ;~{GsL~~ Cer_ ·tificate-~ ~ - .~.'-1 v-- and much Z-... ~YJ more! Spolls()rs PapaCiccos Castelos :Restaurant Ben &:Jeirys I Love New York Pizza Brandywiae Diner Boulevard Bowl Dream Moohie Peter Pause Up Yo11r Alley Leeders Video Monette's ~teak House Domincs Pizza ' TRIVIA 1. Each question that is asked will have a lllUsical clue and a prize assigned to it. The due will be played continuously until a correct an:~wer ilas been phoned in or the question is declared a \stumper.\ The musical clue has one of three functions. It can lead you to the answer, aw.ay fro111 the answer, or just be as()ng that goes along iVith the topic of the question. · · ·· 2. If a question is declared a \sturnper tile prize for tli'at question will be forwarded to the next question which will the~~: have two prizes. 3. Upon receiving a :eorrect answer, we: \VilL play the famous trivia tones. At this time, no further answers will be taken for that questicJn. · _ 4. All lucky persons who are the first to call in the correct answer to a given question will be · asked for their name, ad<lress and the trivia tea:J~ that they are playing for. A trivia team can either . be a campus donn, gre;ek organization, or all independently formed group. One point will be award~d to a team. each time a member calls in a correct answer to a question. The teams with the highest point totals .in each of the three cate_gories (dorms, greeks, and independents) at the end of the competition on Febl'llary 26th will be awuded a grand prize. A team is considered \registered\ the first time apoint is awarded to it. Once a point for a correct answer has been awarded to a particular team, it canli()t be moved to anotller team. · 5. All questions ate w01rth one point exce]it.for the bonus questions asked at the end of the first two broadcasts. Thest-. questions are worth fiv.~ points and have no priZes associated with them. A more exact explanation ()fborius questions ....,ill be given as the contest :proceeds. 6. Protests of .,answers to any question can re made only at the e11d of each week's broadcast. Members of the trivia &ia:ff will temainn in tile studio for fifteen (15)mfuutes after we g<:J off the· air to hear all protests. 11l order foJ.' a protest to be accepted, the protester must b~ prepared ·to · present us with physical evidence that pr()ves.out answer to a given question tore wrong. If a · protest is accepted, the point for tbat ques:tl()n will be deducted from the score of the team that originally answered it.l!owever, the perS()n wb.o called in the original answer em still keep the . prize he or she won. P'rotests do not add po.i11ts to the roore of the protesting team since it is impossible to prove that they actually catled in the new answer. · GOOD LlJICJC TO EVERYONE, the 1~8!1 Triv·ia Hosts Karen Scll!lefer '\Fat\ Ed Kov~ Nini Mebta Bruce Pemypacker lteUey Parle ~ ~ Ct\M_J'US~ NEWS Ricer, Wllat'~ the difference between a religio11s holi~y and a -- KiiStiti; .. ·:· ~ · DC ReUnic,>n wh~.n you return. Hcpe Grwce is just as much fun. NGNLLT! Love, Risa and Stef celel)ratory holiday?? Lina , W~ted: . . Inter.aerobics- Class T-.shirt Charle~. West. Eappy Valentine's Day! I ho{)e y<>u have as much fun as I :illtend to have! · Maginn '87 SbarEJa, Happy- Anniversary and Happy Valelltille's nay. Wow! One y.eru ancl we are still alive and going strong. Love. Ty (Boobs) r>M, I~ was nice talking to you again-l had almost forgotten what ic::s like to be friends! -C.B Qui~he, H(,lpe ~ou'll have a Ha:ppy V- Day.[ I Count your blessmgs!:! Coffee Nini · . The.w:i11dow .came to $23.1'7 Paumrni .. The backet came to '$3.5'9 Til;(\ Brothers ofSigma Chi. SpriltJ Break '$9 Vacati'{)n packages are here!!'! Travel t<l Jamaica, Acapulco, Cancoo~ and Dayt()na. Complete Trips Starting at - $.399. . Jules aad Tam - Tfumk:s for the help. From now .. on ~'Verything is ori'tfine. .,L, Pat'y'(): Did Jtlll get blown off again ~ - ·h? ~at.. Illg _ t. .. SDTDinner Talk- Cwt Nassau, You know, the DUFl«lge .. Box 1~81- It's good to see ycu so much this term. A Secret Admirer MJGil, SARANGHE Ralplt, Darrjl. ~d Dave - Can \Ve watch \Th.e VoUeyball Scene:\.again? -The weird J>eOple upstairs Herdct- HaiJP3' nine months (again!) It'sbe:Qn great! I Lcve You! Love, Tent. Dearl F.L. - Happy Valentine's Day! I Lov:{l You The Mostest. W.B.W.T.F.L. Marjoi'ie .Hoffer- · 1'ha:nb f<Jt a wonderful weekend .get-away in the city. Love to Oary and Wen.dy, tool. I'll re back soon. Lo11e, R. Reed Chris. G. & Arthur P.-. Y()ag11ys are amazing. Th!ltlb. BIUKiaild PatenUil, . I've 1t1is$ed you guyst . Kathy ; - __ Yo~Roomie • . exchange service. You guys ate great. Thanks for saving me! - D. eb ' '· Little sisters where'! Sober? Shinjirarehen. -T. Sheri. Are you backed up or 111nning on time? . Hatcliet: ·. A small, sb.ort-,handled ax, for . use with one hand. -T.S. Suntan? You Bet!'! Spring break reservations to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, andDaytona are now being taken. Call Mike at 432;.5718. Hi Mike! Thanks for writing so much! . Hope7our ~'clay was . . gcrnL.Me~co has No. snow, No drinking age, ~d No Union Administration! I Love it Here! ... Love. Sue To the Girls at 1045 . University! , . Hello from Mexico! I. miss you gtJys! Don~t fotgetto write! See you in. March ... Love,. Sue P.S. Happy 22nd, Patti! WANIED: Men and Women to: share in a fun~ sun-filled week at one of tt¥.~;year's hottest Spring BreaJt: d$tinations: Jamaica, Cancun, .. A!*\lpUlco, and Daytona. Reserve your space now! Contact Mike at 432-5718. Taj, Christine 3 Fox O.uys, Thanks for your suppor-t Friday ·.. -B. .. ' Cathy & Jenny B. - . I'm so glad we finalLY got around to .having <linnet. I miss you Jenny B .... a lot. LoveL. ·- CEH: to the timid and t:he blessed, light-foot lads;'dte sea; e molto . pericolos<>, signorina. Distracted jester, hands of rain and water, notable cross dressers. \Annie Annie, toss youf- guns. 1bis is not a war to be·won.\ 4th Floor Richmond- Jingle :Bells for Valentine's Day'n Now if it will only last 'till then, we'll be. psyched! Ra Psst! Want- to Know ••• a secret? This yeats HOTI'EST Spring Break destinations are Jatttaica. Cancrin; Acapulco: and Daytona. You qu~. rese~e your space by calling Mike· at~32- S118. L1SA: Your birthday is only a week away. Don't worry, I wo~'t forget Get Psyched!!. · LoVe;cCo~y

CONCORD1ENS1S February. 9, 1·989 .. ~~ ...... ~.·-~ .. ~ .... -- ... ~ ,--·. .Happy Vaknf;i;nes n-.m ~ ... . It's time fqr our annual The · MYSTER'Y Sho.p-p- ! . . . . . . . :· DISCOUNTSALE ·.Feb. 6th· -·1 tth · ~ ~ . Join in the tun and pick your discount! · 't . . . , 10%- 50%_ offyourpurchase . 1 : -All clothing, jewelry & accessories illCiuded-·· : , ' . . - . , : 133 Cana!Sq; · Downtown : ~--------------------~--~---------- Bign up in the College Cente'r · and :west for the ' ·I . . .. . _,'\ . THETA- DELTA CHI RAQU:ETBA/...L TOURNA.MEHT to benefit the National. Arthritis Foundation . · $_5~0o ·donation.-· · ... · . .. ,, .. - .;·Put.s yq~ in the running for: · .· . . . Tickets~ior CATS at_ Proctors . A Haircut and blowdry' at SHENA:NlGANS·· . $8 services·it.CHARLE$11 Ha,it_Siflon ·; . $15 gift certiffcate at 'THE OPEN 'DOOR ·l:iooks . . . ':-.: ·· ·f of.10 pizzas· from I LOVE·NY PIZZA . . · · . ·~ im(! much~ .muc/J more!!!!ll \ •• ' > ! . ... . • -- .. .. ..f. - '\1b~~:-.:.~ : .. '• . \ ·.... ~· -: 1 .' ! . . ; .. ~ ~ ~ ; ' J1tnc ~ · ·_ ·.·:\\ . , ·· -~. ·\ . -!'- •• ·-~ ~-- .. Grab Some Keys to. a Lincoln T .. he Scih~nec~dy Symphony Orch~tta offers a V alentiJ1_e to LhePre.~hdcats~ithA Li·nco!~ Portrait. It s part of an aU-Amencan program that features New Yoil Ctty Opera star Richard McKee singing songs by Aaron Coplarid as well as Skip Pars()n ·~Riverboat Jazz Band .. Call372-2500 tqreserve your ticketS-and to reserve seats at a llre,concert_brunch in the Olen-Sanders .Mansion· at 1 p.m.-· another all-American celebratioiii for just ten dollars (five for students and seniors) . The Schenecta~_y Symphony Orchestra Sunday, FebrQary :12 at 3 p .• m • Proctof's Theatre · This -concert is underwritten by Ttustco and will benefft the Arthritis Fot~ndation. Tickets at $9 ($4 for students/seniors) are on sale at Proctor's box office, C30 outlets, Drome Soriild, and Carl's subtirbari stores. February 15th .. Cclrnations to all our guests for Valentine's Day . :• ...__. ,. • '·~ \. •, :' . ' I • ...... . ' '· 'FEMI.NINITY IS YOURS ' . -· , : . . . ,. -~ .. by-waxing ... removes,~nwanted hair l.,' . . . . . ... - from your body ... !·eaves your skin . l smooth so when you_:tou~h. yourseelf, there)s no'stubble under your.to·~Ch and to y()U: .. ·That is part of -the fertiinine. So if ·::_ -~P.~{w.~:~tJ~~~t smoot~. t~~:p~, a,~-k~:for MONlR. at' ln:n~e~r Qitcle Studio.\--At your . _ conven~~-P.c~-,.: hQu-rs- are 9 to 6 Tuesday . _ _.'/ \~~ .•' •. •.!'t- '•·' .. . ' .• ::~·~ '·· ,_ . .,.. i .;. ·th:rotJ..9.;~ frlday ~ S:~~u,rd,ay· 9 ·to 4l.. . •\. . .. ·.' .:i; . , ~ ·,_.,,, 'i I >/', ~-. t, t.•. '!'f\ ..:~ . S.~ -' •• -~ -· '· ._. ' ·. ' ,,• ,. IHHEK (IKCLE. stUDIO ·· · .. 425.-Liberty-.street, SchEmectady ' ' . ' '' ·. ' . ~11 ~8584- . . • .; ~ ·, ~. •, ' , ~-, ,, .... I . . .. J ' ,. ·_.\'\!,. •' ·~....;~~~-- -· .. ~ \- _.,

Page 22 CONCORDJENSIS February 9 1 1989 Dorse and O'Neill Families Reunite On The Unitn Women's Swim Tea.m By GEORGE CU'TilTA Sports Informati()n · Director Robert Dorse,. Class of '53, and Jay O'Neill, Class of '56 were reunited on June 12. 1987 after having lost .contact with each other for 34 years, The occasion-· the first Alumni Swim Meet, which officially introduced the new pool and the renovated Alumni Gym. Dorse and O'Neil'l last saw each other as varsity letterwinners on the 1952-53 fc g 0 LU 0: a 6 u. ~ ~ 0 Q. en :5 >- ~· :::> 8' en f2 0 \,l' ::c Q. terms of -its physical plant and academic offerings. then throw in the new pool, and I thought it would be very attractive for her.\ While they didn't know it at the time, the paths of Robert and Jay had crossed before ... almost. Both men,. originally from Bayside, Long Island, attended Bayside High School together for one year. Dorse, a senior. was in his third season on the swim team while the freshman O'Neill wouldn't make his swimming Kerstin and Bob Dorse at home in Seattle. swim team, which posted a 7-2 record. That season marked the end of Dorse's fine career at Union (in the three years the Dutchmen posted a11 overall record of 25-4 includ:i11g back- to-·back 9·1 campaigns in 1950-51 and 51-52) and the beginning of O'Neill's (Union went 32-6 in four campaigns including a 9-1 season in 1954- 55 and an 8-1 mark in 55..;56). A new era of Dorse-O'Neill (or O'Neill-Dorse) began last fall when Robert's daughter Kerstin and Jay's daughter Amy enrolled at Union. Both young women are freshm.an members of the women's swim team and both have been contributing factors in the Dutchwornen's 7- 1 season. \I'd visited the campus a couple of ti_mes :right after graduation, but I don't think I'd been back for 20-some ·years until that swim meet,\ said O'Neill,. who currently resides in Wantagh, Long Island and is vice president of F. J. Wilkes and Company, Inc. \I came back, irt part, for tile alumni swim, but also to introduce Amy to Union and t<J give her a look at the camnus. Union was my first suggestion for her. I was always happy there and I thought she would like it.\ Dorse, who has lived in Seattl.e, Washingt(:)n . since 1956 and is president ()f Dorse and Company, Inc., h:as stayed in contact with Unioll over the years and at one time ac:ted as a student interviewer for the Admissions Office. While Kerstin did not accompany her father for the Alumni Swim Meet,. she did visit the <:ampus during the spring of her junior year m high school :and' liked what she saw. \I recommended Union to Kerstin for the same reasons 1 chose it,\ he ex:plained. \Looking at the college in debut until two years later. \No Way!\ exclaimed Union swim coach Susan Bassett, who recruited both Atny and Kerstin and discovered their father's connection to each other and to Union. \That's incredible. It was coincidence enough to have ·both women coming to Union· from different ends of the country and to find out that their father's both swam here together. But to find out that both men went to the same high school and didn't even know it is too much.\ While in high school Dorse, who wa-s a senior captain, swam the 50 and 100 freestyle events. th~ 220. · and was a member of the AU-Queens Swim team. A senior captain while at Union, Dorse swam the same events for the Dutchmen and was a member of the then record-holding freestyle and medley relay teams. O'Neill swam the backstroke and 50 free in high school and at Union, set records in the 50 and 100 freestyle events and was a member of the record-holding medley relay and 400 freestyle relay reams. . Dorse and O'Neill both recalled the meets against RPI and Williams as their fondest memories, while Dorse also mentioned that he felt the meet against Fordham during his senior year was his personal best. What they didn't realize, however, is that in their combined six seasons they JX>Sted an overall record of 48~8 and had four years in which the team lost only once. In all six of those seasons, Williams College got the best of the Dutchmeil, Both men credit coach Ray Mullane, who had a record of 69·28 during his ll.years at the· helm of the Dutchmen's program~ for stimulating their interest in Union. \Ray used to go to aU the New York City coaches and tell tl)em he wanted swimmers who were interested in a good education,\ explained Dorsey. \He put Unitm College on the map in my eyes.\ Almost four decades later Bassett helped bring the Dorse- O'N eill connection back to Union and the results are similiar: The freshma~ duo have already set seven college records between them. Dorse holds the marks in the 1000 free (11: 13.38), the 500 free {5:2fi.88), the 400 I.M. (4:52.34), and the 200 I.M .. (2:18.18) while O'Neill is a member of the record-holding 100 medley relay team (1:59.76), as well as the 200 (1:46.85), and 400 (3:53.02) freestyle relay teams. \Kerstin and Amy are a significant part of my first recruiting dass at Union,\ said . Bassett. who guided William Smith to a seven-year record of 79-21 prior to joining the Unioll staff during the summer of 1:987. \I've been delighted with both of them in terms of attitude and work habits and I couldn't ask for a better foundation on which to build this })l'Ogram.\ Both young swimmers were inf1ue11ced by their fathers. \I'm a beach baby,\ smiled Amy. \Dad's been a lifeguard at Jones Beach as far back as I can 'remember so i :w~ brought up ; on the beach. He took me to th~ pool and taught me to swim. I still have the little red float :ibat he gave me when I first started ·swimming.\ (According to Mr. O'Neill, that flo~,tt was given to ~jm by Mullane, who also ,resides pn Long Island). . , . \Dad taught me to swim,\ explained Kerstin. \He took me to the swim club and that got . me interested in the 'summer leag11e. He always swam and that started me into it.\ Kerstin, who has been a: member of the Hosley Swim Club for almost four years. was also influenced by her gnmdfather. Oscar Dorse -was a diver for the Swedish Olympic team in 1920. · As a freshman at John F. Kennedy High School. Kerstin admits that she was not that mucl1 into the sport and wasn't even going to try out for the team. However. her fatber and her summer coach convinced her to give it a try. Between high school and the swim club, she .placed in the state meet's top five and graduated holding scho()l records in the 100 breast, the 200 I.M., the 100 fly, and the 400 free relay. During tbe summer of 1988 she worked hard to become a distmce freestyler. Amy, who started her career at Wantagh High School in the seve11th grade, ·earned -six varsitY letters. She helped her team 'improve enough to win the county championship duri11g her junior and senior seas<Jns and was a member of the squad's relay team that participated in the state meet. Rer ·events include the 50 and 100 free, the breaststroke, the medley-relay, and the free relay .. She graduated holding school records in the 50 free as well as the medley and freestyle relays. \Kerstin probably comes from a stronget swim background than · Amy,\ explained Bassett. \But Amy is eager ·to work, ea.ger to lear:n, at!d- I would expect significant improvement from her during the next wee years. \Kerstin is easily the hardest working individual I've ever coached, period, i~ my nine years as a head coach. She is unbelievable.\ · According~. to the women; coach Bassett, Union's academic reputation, and the PQOl were ~he main'factOrs that helped· them make Union their bQme for the nex.t four years. .Both .are happy with their · decision.· ~ · \I'm really happy here,\ said Amy. \I didn't know what to expect and Dad was nervou.s 'because he had suggested Union to me. After I got here and. told him how much I loved it, be was happy.\ \I was confused and nervous over the· summer,\ admitted Kerstin. \It was scary coming 3 ;000 miles from home and knowing that I'd only be able to go home for about 10 days during the entire year. But I'm really glad I chose it, ·even though it's a little tough when everyone else is talking about going home:' · ·· · Amy. \My Dad badn:t told me about her father and when I called him he said, 'Yes, I remember.Bob.\' · Since Kerstin hasn~t been able to get home all that much (10 days over Phristmas break), Amy has helped make Wantaugh ber secondhome. \I went home with Amy for Thanksgiving. We've been back there a co11ple of times. We sp.end a l~t of time together.\ By attending Dad's Alma Mater, the women liave ~en able to identify more with their fathers. Stories about; the \gOOd old days\ interact with stories .abt)ut ~hat's .happening at · Union .looay. \My Dad came back )or Hamecoming and we went to a party at his old fraternity (Alpha Dtlta Phi). It was· reaily fun 'flanging' out with my father at that frat party.'' While the women .pursue th~ir young careers at Union, tbe fathers are still very active in the spOrt. Dorse participated in the Swim Masters National Competition .at the University of ·'Texas arid at S~ford the past two years and plans on attending the meet this year. He placed fourth in the .400 I.M. and fifth .in tbe 200 I.M. out of approximatelyy 35 competitors. .His current training finds him· swimming foUl' or five times a. week and ~pvers · 120~- yard~ du~g, ·the '.'\:! '• . ;,. Amy and Jay O'Neill at Jones tSeacn Whereas four years separated week and 2()0 yards on the Robert and Jay and probably weekends. O'NeiU has been· a kept them from becoming lifeguard at Jones Beach for the friends while in college, Amy past 36 years and last summer and Kerstin have become fast was joined by Amy. friends; '''The teams that Mr. Dorse \We do everytblng together,\ and Mr. O'Neill. participated on explained Kersti11. \We're best · in the SO's represent the most friends. In orientation group we successful period in Union's happened to sit next to each swimmin,g · h;jstory ,\ said other and when Amy introduced Bassett. We are working hard herself to me 1 said, 'My Dad to reestablish that success .. told me about you, I was Amy and Kerstin are definitely supposed ~look you up'.\ the type of student-athletes · \i didn't know what she was who can link: us to those glory talking about then,\ explained years.\ Positions Available Statistics Lab Consultant Students interested in working as consultants in the Social Sciences Lab during. Spring Term and next year should see Prof. Klein in Social Sciences 109, or call before Friday, February 10. Prefer~nce will be given to sophomore social science majors who will have completed a statistic~ or social science methods course b)t the end of this year. '\' .•

- 1 . ' - f'he wcimert~$ basketball team has a a,.arcl!cord. Above, Junior Wendy Vincent drives against RIT. RIT Ends Skating Dutchmen's Streak At Eight •\ < • • • ~ By ANJ>REW SEEW AL]) ., 'The RIT Tigers scored, ;two goats in the first 2:03· of the game and ·n.ever looked back. Union saw its eighf-game winning streak, which .included wins. over Merrimack and Hamilton, com:e to an · end .. Several .times·the Dutchmen ap.peared poised for a comeback, but each· time the Tigers hekJ,.them off .. ·With tbe 6-3 victory at AclJ.Ules Rink'Saturd~y night, . R.tT 'imnrov,e4 · 1ts, ,di visf&n.! ie~dffig; il~<:&<rib ;-rs: 1-1 :·~iie · loss dropped Union to 14-4 in the division. and set up a battle for second place Tuesday night at Hamiltoll. Nineteen seconds into the game, ScQtt Brown scored past Union goalie Ron Kingh~ ·., who suffered his third los··.· the year.The standing-ro . ·~ . only crowd was stunned e:.;,;.~rr before they .. could settle i4~~;., their seats. At the 2:03 mark;\· Tim Cordick beat Kinghorn with a h~gh slap-shot from . -~ • Continued from page 24 put Rich in th(i position of b¢:ing.~ mu:estric~ frey. agent: T_ti~t mea.Ds ·th?t for !Jhe neJ(t two months,. any other team th~t; ·h~s an interest in Rich may makehirn_an offyr. ... Because his playing tune and ov-erii1l exposure have been Umited, however, ~t see~s unlike-ly t~at one will. That's fine~ witll. Rich,. he:s . happy wh,exe he is. \Things look good foi;·~e .f~r pext year,\ :he said. \I.~ th~ c:;oaches; I know the sys&gem, al).d Coach Wycbe tol~, me tlut I fit into his future plans:\ In .talking to Rich about his past, present and future,. it is amazing what a good head he has on his shoulders. ·After :long range. When Guy Logan_ nullified a Dutchmen power play be being sent off for a penalty of his own at 5:08, it ~ppeared that there would be. .no relief in sight. But Just as Logan stepped oit. of the box, the p~mllty having been killed, he took a pass from Bill Railton and had half a step on the Tiger defender. Logaa held -off the defenseman and forced his way in on RIT netminder Fred Abra,haQ1.,. Tile . junior ~­ captain . converte4~.dlllg •. ;,!tl appeared that Union was on the comeback tra-iL But at the 15:18 mark, Tom Masachi regained the two-goal Tiger advantage. The Close-checking game of RIT, who were playing without several key .players, kept the Dutchmen out of sync through-out · the game. . Particularly affected was Union's passing through the center-ice area. Union coach Bruce Delventhal, who used to coach RIT, says· he would look graduating from Union with a 3.43 GPA last June, no one doubted that be~d be successful. But most thought it would be . HichRomer forward to a possible playoff rematch betWeen his fonner and his present teams. He cited the fact that the Dutchmen outshot the Tigers 35-25 for the game. Guy Logan .and Bill Railton scored the other two Dutchmen goal-s, both in the second period. Terry Campbell, who had his seven game point- scoring streak Snapped in a 6-0 victory over Williams last week, picked up an assist on Railton's gpal. Scott Whitney had his eight-game scoring streak 'Stopped on Saturday; For the:.set:lond · sthil.gl!t year;togari · leads the Dutchm{m In goals. · The Dutchmen will head up · to ·Maine on Friday, for a 7:00 contest Fri~ay ·night against Colby College and a 2:00 aftepiobn start againsi a highly-nited Bowdoi~ squad on · Saturday< The team · wil'l. continue on the roaa at Oswego on· February· 14. The final game of the season at Achilles will be on Saturday, February 18, versus St. Anselm. The Dutchmen will then travel to Middlebury on the 21st. as an engineer, not a professional football player. Yet even whil~ continually beating the odds and enjoying such successe.s, he has maintained a modest disposition. While most of his . teammates drive new and expensive sports cars, he still drives his favorite old car: a (souped up) 1970 Chevelle. \l guess you could call it a muscle ear,\ he s~ys! On June 17th, Rich will marry his high school sweetheart, Denise Polinski. I'rn sure the entire Union community will be proud to join me in wishing Rich the bestof_luck in his marriage and continued succe.ss in his budding NFL career. SU,PPORT UNION SPORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ · Parity has .come to college basketball. There are not longer any unbeatable dynasties, and seldom is an upset really an upset. Th~s year~ the Top 20 has ,been a revolving door. Teams such as the Connecticut Huskies, which have a. good, experienced :t:oster, have made brief appearances in the Top 20, and have beat highly ranked teams. In the case -of the Huskies, they -defeated the high~flyin.g Syracuse Orangemen, whose season can best be compared to an elevator ride. They have bounced up and down the ToJl 20, with most of their losses occurring in the very statement of parity, the Big East. Indicative of the strength of this conference is the fact that presently there are five, teams in the Top 20. Early in conference play, two -of the least regarded teams were atop the Big East. In the past, the Villanova Wildcats played I;>ayey __ t,o Jl}e; J Q~o.rg~town, . Hoy?S' .Goliath in ihe national championship aft~r repeatedly losing to them dqring the regular season. Teams like the ~r,oviqXI).cc; f,riars, and S~ton I;Iall . Pirates . are . no. long{tr doormats . for . perenn~aL powerhouses George~own and Syracuse. This. league, while Page 23 SPORTS re,latively young, already has a rich tradition of exciting, rough basketball and national championships. The Big Ten is another example of the parity which is finally being realized in college basketball. Like the Big. East, this conference title is far from being settled, and there are · several teams in the Top ·20. There have also been many · \upsets\. It is not uncommon to find reserve players on some teams who could be starters anywhe,re · else in the country. This depth of talent is a microcosm of the state of college basketball. Often there are games decided by these reserve players, who · ordinarily do not get the chance to demonstrate their abilities. This has been demonstrated in the NCAA tournament very often in recent years. ln the 80~s there have been a few teams which have won the · national championship as the dark horse. Last year., the Kansas Jayhawks defeated the Oklahoma Sooners to the surprise of many people. FQr the NCAA tournament, 64 teams are selected to vie for the national championship; it is b~coming more believable · that any one of them can win the title. . Union Crew Sweeps ERG' Competition The men's crew team traveled to Skidmore College Saturday, February 4, to compete in a 2500 meter ergometer competition. Geo~ge Gerven not only won the men's heavyweight novice but won the overallcompetition with an outstanding time of 8:02, just 30+ seconds off the world record. To round out the sweep Stan Dobert took second with a time of 8:20, and Steve Kusiak powered his way to a strong thi-rd ,..c- Q·3·8 rar \h~a· d or •he· \ aJ...L vl v. 1 1 u1 \.I l L 8 Basketball . Continued from page 24 Roc,hester) are against teams presently ranked in the top twelve in the ECAC. If the Dutchmen can cut down on the dry spells and come away with , some victories over these SPORTS fourth place finisher. Gerven and Dobert also teamed up with two women from Hobart College to win the 2500 meter coed relay. Other colleges that participated in the competition were Williams, Colgate, Skidmore, Hobart, and Albany. Next week the crew team will tra-vel to M.I.T. to compete in the Crash B's. For more information call me, Steve • Kusiak, at 6805. • • teams they could end up back in the tournament after missing it last. year. The Dutchmen's next home game is on Saturday against Elmira and will begin at 8:00 at the Memorial Field House. A..

. ... ... ,_,1'·. ~ 6 UJ a: 15 d LL. ?:: ~ 0 c.. If). LL. 0 ~ h: a (..) 0 b I c.. Ro,m.,~r, #93, traded in his Dutchmen Bengals uniform this past season. Rich Romer · Returns A Hero By SCOTT ADAMS Associate S.ports Editor For the first time since joining the National Football League's Cincinnati Bengals last fall, 1988 graduate Rich Romer was back in town last weekend_ I had a chance to sit and talk witb,. Rich about his remarkable experiences of the past eight months. A year ago, Rich was here finishing up his coursework for a Mechanical Engineering degree and going through the job application process that so many seniors have come to know and love. But last April, after enjoying four tremendously successful years with the Dutchmen gridders, the Bengals made Rich their seventh round draft pick. This . move was a gamble by NFL standards; it is rare for a Division III player to be drafted at all-let alone in the seventh round. In June, Rich attended an exclusive ·scouting and screening camp to which only the country's top 200 college football players were invited. Considering his relative light weight for a linebacker-212 pounds at the time-Rich fared surprisingly well. Not surprisingly, Rich came away ranked number one for in telligcnce. Nonetheless, Rich was considered a long shot to make the team when he showed up for the Bengals' training camp last July. He admits, \When I ftrsl got there, I was ovciwhclmcd, I felt out of place. I thought I was going to bG cut because 1 was so much smaller than the rest of the guys.\ But again beating the odds, Rich did make the team. And,. while actually playing in only six games, he stayed with the Bcngals (on 'injured' reserve), working out with the team in practices, and helping the coaches on the sidelines in the games in which he did not play. As we all know, his season didn't end until a couple of weeks ago, when the Bengals fell just five points short of winning the Super Bowl. All this comes less than a year after graduating from good old U.C. \I must admit it was pretty funny in training camp,\ Rich said. \They make all the rookies stand up on a table in their underwear and yell out where they went to college and what their greatest game was. They were like, 'Union College? Upstate New York? Where's that? And who in the hell is Hamilton?\' To make the team and see some action in six games was fine for Rich in his first session, but he looks to enlarge his role wit.ll the team next season. \I'm up to 230 pounds right now,\ he said, \but that's still a little small for an NFL linebacker. I hope to be up to 245 for next season.\ When he was playing for the Dutchmen, Rich had a hard time putting· on weight and maintaining it, but he's more optimistic about being able to do that now that he's in the big leagues. \When I was here,\ he told me, \I had so many other things going on that it was tough to keep the weight on. But now, it's my job. For six months, it's just football. Rich has a nutritionist who works with him, but says right now h.is main philosophy about eating is, \I eat anything I can get my hands on_ and lots of it.\ With that in mind, Rich should be in good shape for nexl year. Having shed the pessimistic attitude that sprung from his being an unproven Division III rookie, he now looks forward to the challenge of next season. \If I can get stronger and heavier, and maintain my speed,\ he says, \I'm pretty sure that I can play ... I'm hoping to get in and play some defense as well as start on special teams.\ Ironically, the NFL'S new free agency policy, which allows each team to protect only 37 of their 45 plyaers, has Continued on page.23 FoHo.win.g · ·a two game . . g th.e ·Ho~k~iy-z team •;s record now ·stand$ at · t4·5. Article app~ars on· page 23. ' ·-· ···-, - . -. Febru_ary 9, 1989 Men's Basketball Splits Last Two Games: Record. Stands At 8-7 · By SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Editor The Men's Basketball team upped their record to 8-7 by beating RPI at home last Tuesday and losing to a talented Hamilton team on the road on Saturday; With their record remaining barely above the .500 mark, it will be tough for them to make the ECAC tournament, but it is not an impossibility. 1 · In the RPI game, the Dutchmen came out' and established early on that they were the .superior team. Dave Sussman (8), Doug Gregory (7), and Elgin Rhodes (6), combined for Union's first 21 points of the game and a 10 point lead midway through the half. RPI had trouble controlling the ball early on and shot poorly from both the field and the line. Nonetheless, a few blown opportunities arid several fouls by the Dutchmen kept the halftime score close, 33-28. The second half was all Union as the Dutchmen stopped playing down to the Engineers' level, cutting down . on their fouls and scoring some pe>ints. For RPI, the most noteworthy play of the game, and perhaps the most indicative of the kind of night it was for the Engineers, was made by forward Aaron Bedard .. Bedard picked off a pass-for a solo fast break but got going a little too fast, tripped over his own feet, took a head first dive and ended . . up throwing up a desperation shot instead of an easy lay-up for two. The final score ·was Union 78, RPI 59. Sussman led .the team with 15 points behind 6 for 7 shooting. and added 6 rebounds. D~ug Gregory added 13 while Alex Nestor had another fine game ;off the bench, scoring 12 points. Against Hamilto:n on Saturday, the Dutchmen had a more difficult evening. After coming out strong and taking a, 15~ 11 lead early on, the bigger and stronger Hamilton· squad got rolling, storming back to take a 28-23 lead with two minutes left in the half. Two three-pointers in the fina11:10 by Paul Brindle and Tony Marcon kept the Dutchmen within a point, however, as Hamilton led 30-29 at the halfs conclusion. In the second half, the Dutchmen went ahead 38-32 at the 15:47 mark; but-then fell apart. A 14-2 stretch by the Continentals put t!Iem ahead 46-40. The Dutchmen answered with consecutive three pointers by Paul Brindle and Jerry Brescia, tying the score at 46 with 9:27 left, but they managed just four more baskets the rest of the way., Over one four-and-a-half-minute stretch, the Continentals scored '13 unanswered points, including 6 by forward Mike Smith, who finished with 19 in the game. J?.t the end, the Continentals had wen by 13, 68-55. For the Dutchmen, Doug Gregory and Paul Brindle turned in solid performances. Brindle finished with 15 points and 4 assists while Gregory had 13 points and 11 rebounds, but it was not ·enough. The Dutchmen have ·shown spots of both brilliance and incompetence throughout this season. Several times they l)ave either built up leads .of tpe~r own or eliminated oppnnents' leads, only to squander their efforts with costly dry spells. The 14-2.and 13~0 spurts by Hamilton on Saturday cost them a win. To an extent, this is to be expected by such a young ·basketball team. b·ut that doesn't mean it can't he eliminated. The Dutchmen have given several talented teams like LeMoyne. King's Point and Hamilton tough games and proven that they ar.e not far away from greatness. As far as their cbances to make the ECAC tournament go, the next few games will make it or break it for them. Five of their last seven games are at home and three of them (Elmira, Norwich and Continued on page .23

a: 0 b u..J a: i5 0 I!J.. 6 ~ a: rs: Cll u.. 0 >- w ~ :::l c c c b I Q_ Ric Romer, #93, traded in lilis Dutchmen Cincinatti Bengals uniform this past season. Rich Romer Returns A Hero By SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sp<nts Editor For the first time since joining the National Football League's Cincinnati Bengals last fall, 1988 graduate Rich Romer was back in town last weekend. I had a chance to sit and talk with Rich about his remarkable experiences of the past eight months. A year ago, Rich was here finishing up his coursework for a Mechanical Engineering degree and going through the job application process that so many seniors have come to know and love. But last April, after enjoying four tremendously successful years with the Dutchmen gridders, the Bengals made Rich their seventh round draft pick. This move was a gamble by NFL standards; it is rare for a Division III player to be drafted at all-let alone in the seventh round. In June, Rich attended an exclusive scouting and screening camp to which only the country's top 200 college foothall players were invited. Considering his relative light weight for a line backer-212 pounds at the time--Rich fared surprisingly well. Not -;urprisingly, Rich came away ranked number one for mtc II igcncc. ]\;oncthclcss, Rich was considered a long shot to make Ihc team when he showed up lor the Bcngals\ training camp la~t July. He admits, \When I I H~t got there, I was overwhelmed. I felt out of place. I thl>ught I was going to be cut because I was so much smaller than the rest of the guys.\ But again beating the odds, R 1ch did make the team. And, while actually playing in only six games, he stayed with the Bengals (on 'injured' reserve), workmg out with the team in practices, and helping the coaches on the sidelines in the games in whit:h he did not play. As we all know, his season didn't end until a couple of weeks ago, when the Be11gals fell just five points short of winning the Super Bowl. All this comes less than a year after graduating from good old u_c. \I must admit it was pretty funny in training camp,\ Ricll said. \They make aU the rookies stand up on a table in their underwear and yell out where they went to college and wllat their greatest game was. They were like, 'Union College? Upstate New York? Where's that? And who in the llell is Hamilton?'\ 'To make the team and see some action in six games was f:iae for Rich in his first ses~ion, but he looks to enlarge his role with the team ne:xt season. \I'm up to 230 pounds right now,\ he said, \but that's still a little small f()r an NFL linebacker. I hope t() be up to 245 for next seasGn.\ When he was playing for the Dutchmen, Rich had a hard time putting on weight and maintaining it, but he's more optimistic about being able to do that now that he's in the big leagues. \When I was here,\ he t<Jl d me, \I had so many other things going on that it was t<Jugh to keep the weight on. But now, it's my job. For six months, it's just football. Rich has a nutritionist who works with him, but says right now his main philosophy about cati.ng is, \I cat anything I can get my hands on_ and lots of it.\ With that in mind, Rich should be in good shape for next year. Having shed the pessimistic aLtitude that sprung from his being an unproven Divis ion III rookie, he now looks forward to lhe challenge of next season. \If I can get stronger and heavier, and maint.ain my speed,\ he says, ''I'm pretty sure that I can play ... I'm hoping to get in and play some defense as well as start on special teams.\ Ironically, the NFL's new free agency policy, which all ow s each team to protect only 37 of their 45 plyaers, has Continued on page ·23 Follow.lng a two game losing streak the Hockey team's record now stands at 14·5. Article appears on page 23. February 9, 1989 Men's Basketball Splits Last Two Games: Record Stands At 8-7 By SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Editor The Men's Basketball team upped their record to 8-7 by beating RPI at horne last Tuesday an<! losing to a talented Hamilton team on the road on Sauuday. With their record remaining barely above the .500 mark, it will be tough for them to make the ECAC tournament, but it is not an impossibility. ln the RPI game, the Dutchmen came out and established early on that they were the superior team. Dave Sussman (8), Doug Gregory (7), and Elgin Rhodes (6), combined for Union's first 21 points of the game and a 10 point lead mi{iway through the half. RPI had tr<Juble controlling the ball early on and shot poorly from lloth the field and the line. Nonetheless, a few blown opJ>ortunities and several fouls by the Dutchmen kept the halftime score close, 33-28. The second half was all Union as the Dutchmen stopped playing down to the Engineers' level, cutting down on their fouls and scoring some points. For R P l, the most noteworthy play of the game, a11d perhaps tbe most indicative of the kind Df night it was for the Engineers, was made by J.V. Basketball at JCA Hockey at Colby Hockey at Bowdoin forward Aaron Bedard. Bedard picked off a pass for a solo fast break but got going a little too fast, tripped over his own feet, took a head first dive and ended up throwing up a desperation shot instead of an easy lay-up for two. The final score was Union 78, RPI 59. Sussman led the team with 15 points behind 6 for 7 shooting and added 6 rebounds. Doug Gregory added 13 while Alex Nestor had another fine game off the bench, scoring 12 points. Against Hamilton on Saturday, the Dutchmen had a more difficult evening. After coming out strong and taking a 15-lllead early on, the bigger and stronger Hamilton squad got rolling, storming back to take a 28-23 lead with two minutes left in the half. Two three-pointers in the final 1:10 by Paul Brindle and Tony Marcon kept the Dutchmen within a point, however, as Hamilton led 30-29 at the halfs conclusion. In the second half, the Dutchmen went ahead 38-32 at the 15:47 mark, but then fell apart. A 14-2 stretch by the Continentals put them ahead 46-40. The Dutchmen answered with consecutive three pointers by Paul Brindle and Jerry Brescia, tying the score at 46 with 9:27 left, but they managed just four more baskets the rest of the way. Over one $POB1SWEEK four-and-a-half-minute stretch, the Continentals scored 13 unanswered points, including 6 by forward Mike Smith, who finished with 19 in the game. At the end, the Continentals had won by 13, 68-55. For the Dutchmen, Doug Gregory and Paul Brindle turned in solid performances. Brindle finished with 15 points and 4 assists while Gregory had 13 points and 11 rebounds, but it was not enough. The Dutchmen have shown spots of both brilliance and incompetence throughout this season. Several times they have either built up leads .of their own or eliminated opponents' leads, only to squander their efforts with costly dry spells. The 14-2 and 13-0 spurts by Hamilton on Saturday cost them a win. To an extent, this is to be expected by such a young basketball team, but that doesn't mean it can't be eliminated. The Dutchmen have given several talented teams like LeMoyne, King's Point and Hamilton tough games and proven that they are not far away from greatness. As far as their chances to make the ECAC tournament go, the next few games will make it or break it for them. Five of their last seven games are at home and three of them (Elmira, Norwich and Continued on page 23 THURSDAY 1 FEBRUARY 9 FRlDAY, ·FIBAUAR¥ 1 () 7:00 7:,00 2:00 Men's <Jas-luJti'Yall vs. Elmira women'$ Basketball vs. Alfred a:D0 8 HOMEt a:oo .. t-fOM! MONDAY, FESRUAAV 13 J.V. easketbaU at Skidmore 6:QO 7:30 7:3() TUeS,DAV, RISBR,UAAV 14 Men•s ·· raas,ketbaU at Mhidlebtu·y · · H'O'okey , at· E>swego WE>men!:t Traok.-Unio,n tnvy WEDNE!U)AV, FEB. 15 Women'& BaskeU>all vs. Vass;:u· 6:0Q .. HOM.t; 7:oa .. HdM'I: ' .. - .. · ... ,··.··;·.··;:···:·

Vol:\ CXVIII, No. 13: Mechanical Engineering· ·Imposes New· Major Requirements· On · , ·.Seniors Union, To Host National .Research ·Conference - By CIIRISTINE HONG Editor-in-Chief· ~'If I had known about this · prior to winter term, I wouldn't be· taking tb.~ courses I am now.\ This is a response from a · senior Mechanical :Engineering major in response to last week'·s change in their department's graduation require- ments. Echoing the sentiment that senior M.E. majors were feelin·g following the announcement last Thursday mQrning, Louis Wertalik '89 commented, \It's unfortunate that the changes came :so late. We understand why the changes. wer~ m:.tde, but it's frustnitiqg · to have oUt last tef.m at Union throw·n off balance.\ The graduatibn requitement changes call for an additional course in energy and extending out the 'capstone course' in engineering design (senior project) to two· terms. For a significant number of lhe 35 M.E. majors, this means that they will have lo fiU 'Q.P the upcaming spring tet.n;t · with three engineering classes. Several seniors will have to 11lke on an additional colu-se in order to graduate in June. This fourth course, De.an of Engineering J;..awrence HolM lander assured, will not be charged on these stuilents' tuitions. As for the handful of students that found themselves in the predicament of taking five courses, Dean of Engineering along with the M.E. Department has worked out a compromise so that they will be able to drop one course. The reason for these changes was explained by Dean Hollander. The Accreditation Board for Engineering and Tecbnolo:g.y (A.B .E. T .) regularly reviews departments at colleges and universities across the nation. In their review of last year's graduating class, 1988, they found that the M.'E. program was deficient in particular areas of the · curriculum--'-elnergy and design. In order to fall in favor with A.B.E.T., the M.E. department enacted these changes in . keeping -with the report's suggestions. The department wa~ . notified of 1\..B.E.'l'.'s findings two weeks.ago. Hollander stressed that- the M.E. department has been . accredited. since it was established at Union in 1957. . The department did not want to jeopardize this fact. According ro Dean Hollander and Department Chair Milillo, part of the reason that the seniors were notified this late in'to the term was due to the . seHi()rs' failure to ha~d in questionnaires on their course selections. Hollander read Milillo's report,on the incident. · It stated, \In anticipation of a serious concern, the department polled the M.E. class in early continued on page 4 .~ <( 3 ~. (/) 0: ····· ::t: ·. 0 .· ·. >- CD 0 ...... ~ Chairman and Professor of Physics David Peak. By JAY FREELAND News Editc.>r From April 19~21, 1990, Union College wU:l host the rapidly growing ·\Conference for Undergraduate Research.\ This annual gathering which is currently in its third year brings together undergraduate students from across the country so that they may discuss and exchange ideas in . research topics. · The conference is not a competition, but rather, a time for students to show their work to their peers. According to Chairman and Professor of the Physics Department David , Peak, the philosopqy of the conference is for the students to Continued on page 3 Delta Psi Delta Regards IFC Decision As 'Valid -And Appropriate' Delta Psi Delta, the members of the Union chapter have gained a greater understanding of the inner dynamics of greek life. On any college campus, not e:very student can be entirely satisfied with all aspects of that community. It seems there is ·, always some problem or worry that occupies our thoughts: social, cultural, or communal. Union is certainly not immune to some of these problems. Delta Psi Deltas are using their strength as. a cohesive group to help remedy some ofthese ills. \A Plate.Full of Questions,\ February 16, 1989 '&otica'- Replaces Annual Porn Film 'By FIONA SHUKRI Ediior-.in·Cbief Instead of the traditional pom.ography movie that has been shown annually in recent years, last nigh-t's campus movie was ,;Betty Blue\ a critically acclaimed 'erotic' film. Last year's film committee's decision to show a pornographic film resulted in heated ·campus-wide controversy. In response to open protests to the showing of the film, the student forum on behalf of the film committee sponsored an open forum debate and campus~ wide vote on whether or not the scheduled fHm should be shown. The results of each were taken into account by the film committee, which eventually decided to run the film as scheduleld. Scott Davis, this year's. film committee co-chair, says that the decision not to show the traditional pornographic film was not made as a reaction to last year's dispute. \I don't think that last year's controversy had an effect on my decision except in so far as that if I had decided to show a porn film I would have consciously been offending people. But that would always be true with a porn film.\ Continued on page 3 SAC Will Review Fraternity Occupancy Levels Tomorrow By CHRISTINE HONG Edito.r-in-Chief Tomorrow the Student Affairs Committee will be meeting at 1: 15 p.m. to review, among other topics on the agenda,, fraten1ity housing and their occupancy levels. Under the Student Forum ruling passed in the 1986-87 academic year, Greek housing may be revoked if the level is found to be below 95%. Presently, only two houses have been considered for review. At last week's meeting Delta Chi and Kappa Alpha representatives were present to discuss their respective housing situations. SAC will decide their recommendations to Residence Life. The housing situations of these two houses will be deteremined by the. Office of.Rcsidcnce Life. According to a source inside the SAC committee, the possibility of Kappa Alpha 1osing McKean House is extremely small. Concerning Delta Chi, SAC's . recommendation on their housing is anticipated to be the more undetermined of the two on review. Other topics on SAC's agenda include a discussion of · the newly organized Freshman Year Committee as well as discussion of possibilities for 'common interest' housing. The SAC meeting tomorrow will be closed to the Union community. The final recommendations concerning fraternity housing wiU be reported in next week's issue. By M~LISSA BLOOM During the past three weeks, many Delta Psi Deltas have been approached with the question, \What are you trying to do?\ as if the co.educational fraternity were a subversive plot to radically mutate greek life at Union College. Delta Psi Delta was formed for two basic purposes. The first purpose, and the reason we cannot be a club, is to develop a brotherhood amongst ourselves: Many present Delta Psi Deltas had previously remained independent because they were not comfortable with the idea of a•sexuallyexclusive organization. Within Delta Psi Delta we form a relationship which is deeper than friendship, and, yet, is not · sexual. Through ritual atld tradition$ an informal discussion series. debuted this Tuesday. The , series which Delta Psi Delta , ~~,~,-· · co~sponsors with the Protestant , . : from the Dartmouth chapter of Ministry. aims to foster casual intellectual interaction between Continued on page 4 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The SAC holds the key ~o this door's future . '.

Vol:. CXVIII, No. 13 Mechanical Engineering Imposes New Major Requirements On Seniors Union To Host National Re·search Conference By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-in-Chief \If I had known about this prior to winter term, I wouldn't be taking the courses I am now.\ This is a response from a senior Mechanical Engineering major in response to last week's change in their department's graduation require- ments. Echoing the sentiment that senior M.E. majors were feeling following the announcement last Thursday morning, Louis Wertalik '89 commented, \It's unfortunate that the changes came so late. We understand why the changes were made, but it's frustrating to have our last term at Union thrown off balance.\ The graduation requirement changes call for an additional course in energy and extending out the 'capstone course' in engineering design (senior project) to two terms. For a significant number of the 35 M.E. majors, this means that they will have to fill up the upcoming spring term with three engineering classes. Several seniors will have to take on an additional course in order to graduate in June. This fourth course, Dean of Engineering J.,awrence Hol- lander assured, will not be charged on these students' tuitions. As for the handful of students that found themselves in the predicament of taking five courses, Dean of Engineering along with the M.E. Department has worked out a compromise so that they will be able to drop one course. The reason for these changes was explained by Dean Hollander. The Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (A.B .E. T .) regularly reviews departments at colleges and universities across the nation. In their review of last year's graduating class, 1988, tlley found that the M.E. program was deficient in particular areas of the curriculum-energy and design. In order to fall in favor with A.B.E.T., the M.E. department enacted these changes in keeping with the report's suggestions. The department was notified of A.B.E.T.'s findings two weeks ago. Hollander stressed that the M.E. department has been accredited since it was established at Union in 1957. The department did not want to jeopardize this fact. According to Dean Hollander and Department Chair Milillo, part of the reason that the seniors were notified this late into the tenn was due to the seniors' failure to hand in questionnaires on their course selections. Hollander read · Milillo's report on the incident. It stated, \In anticipation of a serious concern, the department polled the M.E. class in early Continued on page 4 t, (/) :2 s; .....! ~ .....! ~ (/) a: :r: (.) >- Ill 0 b ' :c ; ,· Q. Chairman am<l Professor of Physics David Peak. By JA\' FREELAND N e\'s Editor From April 19-21, 1990, Union College will host the rapidly growi11g \Conference for Undergraduate Research.\ This annual gathering which is currently in its third year brings together undergraduate students from across the country S() that they may discuss ami elCchange ideas in research topics. The co11ference is not a competition, but rather, a time for students t() sllow their work to their peers. According to Chairman an<! Professor of the Physics Department David Peak, the pili 1osophy of the conference is for the students to Contitlued on page 3 ~----------------------------- Delta Psi Delta Regards IFC Decision As 'Valid And Appropriate' By MELISSA BLOOM During the past three weeks, many Delta Psi Deltas have been approached with the question, \What are you trying to do?\ as if the co-educational fraternity were a subversive plot to radically mutate greek life at Union College. Delta Psi Delta was formed for two basic purposes. The first purpose, and the reason we cannot be a club, is to develop a brotherhood amongst ourselves. Many present Delta Psi Deltas had previously remained independent because they were not comfortable with the idea .of a 'Sexually exclusive organization. Within Delta Psi Delta we form a relationship which is deeper than friendship, and, yet, is not ·sexual. Through ritual and traditions . from the Dartmouth chapter of Delta Psi Delta, the members of the Uni()n chapter have gained a greater understanding of the inner dynamics of greek · life. On any wl lege campus, not every student can be entirely satisfied wilh all aspects of that community. It seems there is · · always some .Problem or worry that occupies our thoughts: social, cultwal~ or communal. Union is certainly not immune to some of these problems. Delta Psi Deltas arc using their strength as a cohesive group to · help remedy some of these ills. \A Plate-Full of Questions,\ an informal discussion series, debuted this Tuesday. The series whic.h Delta Psi Delta co-sponsors wit..h the Protestant Ministry, aims to foster casual intellectual interaction between Contlmaec:l on page 4 1877 February 16, 1989 'Erotica' Replaces Annual Porn Film By FIONA SHUKRI Editor-in-Chief Instead of the traditional pornography movie that has been shown annually in recent years, last night's campus movie was \Betty Blue\ a critically acclaimed 'erotic' film. Last year's film committee's decision to show a pornographic film resulted in heated campus-wide controversy. In response to open protests to the showing of the film, the student forum on behalf ol the film committee sponsored an open forum debate and campus- wide vote on whether or not the scheduled film should be shown. The results of each were taken into account by the film committee, which eventually decided to run the film as schedulcld. Scott Davis, this year's film committee co-chair, says that the decision not to show the traditional pornographic film was not made as a reaction to last year's dispute. \I don't think that last year's controversy had an effect on my decision except in so far as that if I had decided to show a porn film I would have consciously been offending people. But that would always be true with a porn film.\ Continued on page 3 SAC Will Review Fraternity Occupancy Levels Tomorrow By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-in-Chief Tomorrow the Student Affairs Committee will be meeting at 1:15 p.m. to review, among other topics on the agenda, fraternity housing and their occupancy levels. Under the Student Forum ruling passed in the 1986-87 academic year, Greek housing may be revoked if the level is found to be below 95%. Presently, only two houses have been considered for review. At last week's meeting Delta Chi and Kappa Alpha representatives were present to discuss their respective housing situations. SAC will decide their recommendations to Residence Life. The housing situations of these two houses will be deteremined by the. Office of Residence Life. According to a source inside the SAC committee, the possibility of Kappa Alpha losing McKean House is extremely small. Concerning Delta Chi, SAC's recommendation on their housing is anticipated to be the more undetermined of the two on review. Other topics on SAC's agenda include a discussion of the newly organized Freshman Y car Committee as well as discussion of possibilities for 'common interest' housing. The SAC meeting tomorrow will be closed to the Union community. The final recommendations concerning fraternity housing will be reported in next week's issue. . ' . .. ~ $ if', a: I u > C!l 0 >- 0 I 0.. PHOTO OF THE WEEK: The SAC holds the key to this door's future .

(/J 2 :C () ~ :c --; ~ (/J u.. ::2 a: <( a: ::i 0 ...1 I- § 2 (/J :c 0: 0 --, :c >- 0 Ill 1£ 0 b 0 .I- :c 0 (l_ :c c. Union trave·led to Maine last weekend for two gam&s versus Colby and Bowdoin. They host St. Anselm on Saturchay. The women's basketball team ho'lds an 8·10 record. Their final home game is this Saturday against Skidmore. February 16,. 1989 ------------------~----------------------~~~----------------------------------------- Women's Swim Team Finishes Season At 8-1; Host 16-Team State Meet This Week By SPORTS INF()RMATION HUREAU SCHENECTADY, N.Y.-- For the second consecutive season, head coach Susan Bassett has guided the women's swim team at Union College to an imprc:;sivc 8-1 record. However, according to Bassett, this year's mark was much more impressive than last '·car's because of the upgraded .;chedulc. She is also anxious to sec her young squad in action this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday when Union will host the New York State Swim Meet. Trials for each day's events begin at 11 a.m. with the finals set to start at 7 p.m. each night. Union finished its dual competition last week when it defeated llomestanding Albany State, 146-95. A mid-season loss to William Smith was the lone blemish. Last year, a season-ending setback at Middlebury kept the Dutchwomen from perfection. ''I'm very proud of what this team has accomplished the past two seasons,\ explained Bassett, who posted a seven- year record of 69-20 at William Smith before joining Union's staff two summers ago. \All of the women have worked very hard. They've done everything h c a~kcJ of them and I'm anxious to sec them this week against tht: best competition that ~cw York State has to olkr.·· Ln1on had its best ~howing 111 the stJ.tc meet last season \\hen 11 l1ni~hcd lOth with 2tJ7.5 points. However, that wa-, :--t1ll <t long way away from the X() 7.5 points picked up by thnx-ycar defending champion ILhaca. Tk Lady Bombers, who placed second in both 19X4 and ~5 before winning the last three titles, are again favored. \They've got five returning seniors who picked up the bulk of their points last year, n explained Bassett. Ithaca, 5··2 this year, already 11as three swimmers who have qualified for the nationals. Senicr Nancy Stapp, who returns as the state record-holder in the 2()0 breast (2:31.77)' has qualified for national competition in the 200 breast, the 200 l.M. and the 200 free. Classmate Kelly Kisner, who won the 200 I.M. last year and finished second in individual points, has qnalified for the 100 and 200 breast, and the 200 I.M. Sophomore Amy Robinson has qualified for the 100 and 200 backstroke competitions. Last season Ithaca set records in the 200 freestyle relay (1:40.81) and the 40() medley relay (4:10.81). While Bassett points to the Bombers as a clear cut favorite to repeat, she feels that spots two through six are wide open. Hartwick, William Smith, St. Lawrence, Hamikon. and Union will make this one of the most hotly contested state meets in the last few seasons. Bassett points to the butterfly races as Uni(Jn's top events and feels that the team is solid in everything else. Once more, the Dutchwomcn own dual meet victories over Hartwick and Hamilton and that, along with the fact that they will be in their own pool, . will give the team a big confidence edge. While Union docs not as yet have a national qua lificr, Bassett feels that several of her women have an excellent opportunity during the state meet. Freshman Anne Glicksman has posted .a 1:03.9 in the l 00 bac ksln>kc and a 2:19.0 in the 200. She needs a 1:03.4 m1d a 2:17.0to qualify. Freshman Kerstin Dorse has posted a 4:52.0 in thc400 I.M. and will be looking to qualify at 4.:49.0. Sophomore Kathy Kavancy (Albany) has a 1:02.8 in the 100 butterfly and is looking for a I:OL.O while freshman Jeanne Cutrone (Scotia) has a 1:02.2 in the 100 fly. Union's 400 medley relay and 800 freestyle relay teams arc also very c:lose to qualifying. The 40() team of Glicksman, freshman Jennifer Joyce, Cutrone, and Kavaney h<~ve posted a 4:18.3 and need a 4:14.2. Meanwhile, the 800 team of Glicksman, Dorse, B11trone, and freshrniUl Jennifer Halsdorf have swum an 8:18 and are laking for an S:lO. 1'he team goes into tile state rneet already having set 17 of 24 Union records_ Bassett p0 ints to a stronger schedule, an outstanding fresllrnan class, and a great deal of hard work by tlle entire team as re~ons for Union's success this )'eat. ·'Last year's 8-1 re<:or<l proved we're the best of the worst in New York State,\ she ex:plained. \This year's 8-l rec()rd proved that we're a solid, competitive club lhat is caiJable of competin~ over an entire season. We weie: good in November, we we1e good in January, and we've bee11 good i11 February. This s\tkte meet wi 11 help us prove how far we've come in just tiVo- years. \'This year's fresbrn:an class has enable dus to ha'Ve the deiJth that is necessary- to hav.e a competitive tea]l'),\Bassett C<Jiltinucd. \The women who were on last year's t-eam have better times this season because they have beenj)ushed by the freshmen. Th-e illternal co1npctition has been c\;~ positive a11d has made everyone bette f. r guess yoti could say that '-VC 11ot only ad<lcd a talented !lmup of fn•,shmcn to a you11g and t::tkntcd team, but we got the very best out of C'-'eryonc on the team. \The last question to be answered this year it> how well these young womcnrespond to the challenges and p1:essures that a big champion ship meet presents. W c'II find ().Ut.\ Senior Jennifer Wlli te of St. Ltwrcnce will be a sV~immer to be dealt with again tbis season. Site returns as the \Willner of Continued on IJage 23 S·kating Dutchmen, At 14- 6-1, Control' Their Own Fate For T.he Playoffs By MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports Editor The Union hockey team, after riding an eight game winning streak, has suddenly found itself winless in its last four games. Despite their recent slide. Union still holclsa respectable 14-6-1 record and a win at home this Saturday against St. Anslem will place them high in the final standings. The standings cculd be complicated by the resul~ of Tuesday's game agains.t Oswego. A victory by Oswego, who trails Union i11 the standings, could propel them past the-Dutchmen in the playoff seedings. The Skating Dutchmc11 found themselves in this position with a disappointin:g road trip last weekend to C<Jlby and Bowdoin. Against Colby, Uni<lll played well but was held to a tie largely due to th.e outstanding efforts of the Mules goaltender. The Dutchmen were held scorele;s through the first two perioilis and did not get on the b<>ar'<l until midway through the tllir.<J period. With Union on the power play, Dan Gould took the puck and drilled it into the net to tie the game. It was Gould's lOth goal of the season, coming off a pass from Campbell. In overtime, Union continued to press, getting the better of the chances, but in the end had to settle for the tie. Coming off the tie against Colby, Union traveled to Bowdoin where they faced a very quick and aggressive team. Although the final score was 7- 2, it did not indicate the closeness of the game. Union had several good chances to score, but were unable to c<Jnvert their efforts into goals. Paul Sullivan and Terry Campbell each had a goal with b<>th assists going to Dalton Menhall. Campbell's goal upped his team leading point total to 33. With the Tournament bids ccrning out on Monday. Union still holds its fate in tis own hands. A victory over Oswego and St. Anselm and a loss by Elmira to RIT and Plattsburgh would put Union in position to finish as high as second. ·'f'f'Mlaf';+,~fl'b\;' ''··1,''f''\''''':··· '\ r,,.,, ,_,\ '''''W\''''; :\''h·. .,,h.-.,,.>,JAYi' ··.. ,.. , .. ~anFs''BS:s'Retal:1fl\vs~ ctafRgo'rf· ,,,. ·· · , ·-- - .J\:v. a~ ,, · · · all.~§;. t~,~w~ctt:~- · ,_ . sa:turda~~ ·Feb ... 1a:· ,,,. ·'· ,,,,, ' ·· Men's ias-ketoau., &t·,,~azaret-h ·- ·-· Hock&y-:vso:·'St~AnsietllS'''' ·-· wo mgn!s ·Ba:S'ketballtJS<' ·S,kidmort:.r; .·J..j{~~~i~,, ::\Jtriif __ .,, ,,~;, T-a

Page 2 By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. If one were to ask the question, \What is Estonia?\ the respondant would probably suspect this to be one of E.D. Hirsch's stumpers from his book Cultural Literacy. Although Hirsch feels that G.I.Joe and Penis Envy are more vital to individual knowledge, Estonia happens to be a very important nation which is now ruled by the USSR. Estonia, annexed by the Soviets in 1940, is a land of approximately one million people on the Baltic Sea, and is often referred to as a Baltic State (along with Latvia and Lithuania). Under-Gorbachev's new Peristroika, the small nation has roared in its CONCORDIENSIS .Februa~y 16, 1989 Qlnn cnro i.ens is NEWS ANALYSIS- The Mouse . \ That Wants To Roar disapproval of Soviet control and oppression. Though much . of its history has been spent as a political football between the Germans and the Russians, the Estonians are now going through a siage of increased nationalism. This has upset Soviet .officials to say the least. The Soviet Union was attracted to Estonia originally for its fine seaport in Tallinn {Estonia's capital). although . the area possesses a quantity of timber as well. The buffer it provides for the Soviet Union was an attractive feature, as well. The Estes have suffered since this final absorption, as their simple way of life has crumbled since Mo,ther Communism \adopted them.\ Their economy has shrunk as have standards of living. The Baltic Sea and Estonian rivers have become polluted as a Waves of U.S. support have already helped. the plig·ht of Soviet Jews and Armetlians, but the ·support thus far has been too exclusive. There ate many groups of .peoples in the Soviet Union who greatly desire support. The ESt()nians are one . of these groups. result of the typical Soviet lack of concern for a conscious industrial system .. In the Stalin era, thousands of Estonian \dissidents\ were deported to Siberia while foreigners (mostly Russian) were imported. This fragmented the population, while along the way, causing a high Estonian unemployment: rate and the changing of the official language to Russian. Today in Es';onia the effects of a failed system are . only beginning to show as the myth of reform, which .the U.S. press eats up so well, has hardly helped the Estonian caus·e. There have been demonstrations in the cities, with demands for a national language and citizenship serving as a mask for the real desi~e for increased political control ami freedom. In fact, a radical party now exists, called the Estonian National Independence Party. which hQpes for complete seccession from the Soviets. It is a sad · truth that these · act:ivities (which toolc place mostly last fall) · wre condemned by _ Gorbachev; In addition, a former KGB chief was quoted as. saying in reaction to the demonstrations that ''you (Estonia) can · .achieve' sovereignty ... but you can lose everyf;bing else.\ No one wants violence, but the Estonian people have demonstrated .a willingness to be .different .from what they are now. The citizens of the United States :sh(mld not oQly ···appreciate the Este cause but• help them ·:lin their quest f()r freedom.· ··waves of U.S. supperi:hav'e alfeady helped the plight of · Soviet Jews and Armenians, but the support has thus far been too exclusive. There are many groups of peoples in the Soviet Union who greatly desire outside support. The Estonians~ate one of the more vocal, if such a distinction may be made of these groups. It is difficult for our government. to act publicly., but it is not ~ problem for private Citizens to act en masse Estonia is now just a small ·hole in the diamond-hard undetbelly of the Soviet Union:. While its cause may therefore seem hopeless, one should remember that just one well-placed arrow can slay a huge monster. · In Estonia today; 'bread recipes ate regulated by -the government in Moscow, ~ho unofficially do not speak the same language. There's a -rocker in Vladivosok: Gotevery side by Jerry Lee But for accidents of disorder That guy could well be me ... -B.A.D~ Democrats Look For Strong L.eadership From Black Chairman Environmental Reality Yields Grow.ing Qoncern.$ , By BRAD MONDSCHEIN The Democratic National Committee on Friday, February 10, elected for the first time a black leader, Ronald H. Brown. The major issue that the new chainnan will have to face is the fear that the Democrats will not be able to regain the White House in the 1992 elections. The Democrats have not won a presidential election in the last three election years. Regaining the White House may prove more difficult than it seems due to Brown's race and background as Jesse Jackson's convention manager in 1988. Many feel that Jackson attributed to the poor showing of the Democrats in the 1988 election to the ties he has with the party. The election results showed that 88% of all black voters voted Democrat while only 40% of the white voters voted Democrat. Many Democrats, such as Representative Jim Cooper from Tennessee, feel that Brown will hurt the Democrats in the South. The New York Times quoted Cooper as saying that Brown 1 s race \shouldn't hurt him, but it docs. There are still too many southerners who can't look beyond his color.\ On the other hand, Mr. Cooper pointed out that Brown may be able to deal with Mr. Jackson and his ·supporters. Mr. B:rown, on \Meet The Press\ pointed out that he will not try to make race an issu¢ but that he cannot avoid the issue. Be went on to- say that he will try to better define the position of the Democratic Party and not let the Republicans do it for them. The job of . beating the Republicans will be made harder by the expertise of Brown's counterpart Lee Atwater, chairman of the Republican National Committee. Atwater has publicly stated that lie will try to dissuade Blacks from the . Democrats. Atwater would like to steal the Black vote by making the Blacks feel that their votes are taken for granted by the Democrats. The Blacks,_ therefore, had a drop in turnout in 1988 and the rise of Brown to chairman of the party could be a good tactic to keep the Blacks going to the polls and voting Democrat ' It is still hard to . figure the total impact that · the new chairman will have on votes in the South and across the country. The first major test will be the House and Senate races of 1990. As always, race, unfortunately, will be a factor once again in the next four years. It is hoped that Brown will be able to overcome the . difficulties· and be an effective· leader of the Democrats as Atwater is of the Republicans. Get An .Opinion ••• Read CONCORDIENSIS News Analysis By ROBIN ISSERLES Did you know that? 1. The United States . produces 448 tons of air pollution per year. 2. Rain is found ~t PH levels between 1.9 (average stomach· acidity) and 5.5 (very acidic). For normal life to survive, per year laK:es must have a level of eight or more. 3. Twenty-six billion tons of soil a year is lost due to soil erosion. 4. Seas could rise· up to seven feet with 5% polar · warming which would flood most of the east and west coasts. 5. Each person produces eight and one-half pounds of trash pe~ day. 6. The United States makes up five percent of the global population and consumer one quarter of the world's energy. 7. Presently there is only thirty-three years. left of the world's known oil reserve. 8. Eight species of organisms per day are becoming extinct as a result of de-forestation. 9. Twenty-five million ~ people per year suffer from hunger throughout the world. _ 10. The can of diet coke that you may be drin:king as you read this article has the same amount of energy as one can of • gasoline. These are facts, hard cold facts. They are not simply problems :tor the future. They are affecting us right now, at this very moment, and it is only us, as citizens of the . world who are to blame. This weekend Students for Political Awareness and Action sent four delegates to Mount Holyoke College for the 11th Annual Student Conference on · Intemational Affairs. This year's conference was ·entitled _\Environmental Management and Resoutce Development.\ Twenty, schools from the eastem part Qf the United States were represented. The weekend consisted of several workshops and panel discussi011s with topics such as: air pollution, population control, the depletion of fossil fuels, food ·rutd nutrition and water resources. Throughout the course of the weekerid, we discussed the environmenfat problems that need to be addressed now and what we can do to help the current situation. Sowhataboutit? What can I possibly do about these probl~ms?_ Yes,. similar thoughts were running through our minds after our first encounte-r with this \harsh reality. ir Fortunately, through the course of the weekend, we brainstormed~ exchanged ideas of resolutigns and shared the hope of fixing the world that we are all dest:roying. We belong to a society which reacts itt crisis situation. Something happens and then we re~ct. This time, we cannot depend on the reactional method. We must think and do immediately .. Science is telling ui that we will experience a global warming. The question emerge.s;. are we going to pursue a preventative course or let it: grow with our current, traditional · wait--and-see apprm~~h? These facts presented should make the answer obvio~~:s. It is- time to address our Congressmen and tell them we, their constituents, want to see more attentiorr given to these environmental problems. We want increasedreseatch into alternate methods· of energy that do not harm the environment. Again we cannot reiterate this enough,' this is our world and therefore it is our problem. Fortunately we were able to return to Union College with an abundance of ideas and ways that we can 'help our present situation. SPAA will be working very hard to institute programs which are· working successfully at otber schools. All we ask is for your cooperation and participation. It could be corning to a SP AA meeting at 7:00 on Mondays, in CC4l.Q,. shutting: off the . lights as you leave the room, or simply returning the diet coke you may still be drinking as you finish this article. Anything is an enormous help because of the fact that conservation is absolutely necessary. We owe it to ourselves to be aware and conscious 'of our daily -habits • Yes,· we owe it to ourselves, but more importantly, we owe it to our world. . . Write tor News Call Eliise X·4410, Jay X-4153 or Becky 374-8984 ,, ~.· ,, \ if, .d ty , ll H ,, .,( •f .h H t f II:, ') T ; : «' .. t p; ! il : 1j ' !~ n • < 1~ i'i t i ,. ' I ' ' ' I t r I r i r ''•' j d : '1 II ' l li t f l \:,

' .,1 t'l lj ., 'I ' ' ... i i I ! _, ,, I l t -~' 11 :\ ?~ ;,1 .I .if !\ f- ... j\ r •.. t ' ~.: ': r n: :•i: : 'l -~ ' I l 'j !~ i i i I ~ I ~ ,. • t I 1 t ' j i 11 I f: I ! ' I '. I .. ; i. l I I I . .. I~ ' I ,'(] rl CONCORD1ENSIS February Ui, 1989 Page 3 Nationwide Research To Be. Pre·sented At Union Contin~;.~ed from- ('age 1 Promise\ as a possible theme learn from each other in a more for the 1990 conference at relaxed setting than the typical• Union. The students attending conference atmosphere. · na v.e already shown Founded in 198 7, the achievement and show promise conference has grown quickly to continue this in the future. in its number of participants. rust the same, Union sees At the first conference in the itself as. a school with great spring of 1987, 500 achievements in the past and pat\ticipants arrived .after only ·. looks to make equal if not minimal publicity about ,the · grea.ter achievements in the conferenc.e. The following year;· · furure. 1000 people took part with ·a · The three day event at Union diversity of 180 schools wiU begin with a show at nationwide. Praetor's, followed by three With the amazing turnout at . da,y,s of oral and stationary the first two conferences, a . (poster) demonstrations by the rion-profit corporati~n was students. The conference will ' formed .in- order to set conclude with a banquet and guidelines .and help·. with closing ceremonies, both of fundraising; for the cenference. wili<>h can be expected to have It. is :from this solid base that · inte·Tnationally renowned the conference continues to sch.o1ars as key note speakers. grow and gain momentnm F11nding for the conference acmss·the~comitry. has typically been provided by After · the first· two • IEF fiunds, the Presidenfs conferences remained put in Discretionary Budget and funds Asheville, North Carolina, it from d1e individual departments was decided that tlte conference being represented. Professor should rotate through various Peak hopes to see · vast schools. Union receivedtits slot : e:xpa;nsion in these funds as the after the University of ccnference·continuestogrow. Minnesota bad to drop itself Students interested in from the list of hosting attellding· this year's cenference schools. Union's President, . or talcing part in the following John Morris gave the offer . year~s should submit their instant suppmt as did the . research to their own rem a~ n de r of t h e • departm(mt. Deadline for this administnition. The expected . year's conference is Monday, tumo'!t .s~ould cle3! 150Q and,. February 20 andJt i$ n~ver too. may ~~ki f!l'e greates~ ~uptli~t . ~ Iat~.' to begin ptepaiirlg for· of schools m the conferences Un1on•s. Professor Peak would history. The major reason for· liket() stress the importance of this . is the cverwh~l~ing the fact that this is open to all density of schools wtth:m a · areas of study. He would close proxitnity to Union. This particalarly like to se¢ greater year's conference will be held · particiption from students in in San Antonio, Texas, a less the arts and languages, The densely populated are~ ·for . more ~scipllnes we can get, schools. · · · the stronger the conference will Professor Peak: sees·':the be, and the stronger Uniqn slogan \Achievement ·!lnd . College will be in return. The 'following companies still have opelrings available. If interested, please stop by the CDC with your resume and tnrnscript to sigl). up for a time slot All companies with openings are on a first-come, first-served bask COMPANY NAME COMPUGRAPmC CORP CT.I}OT COSTELLO INDUSTRIES GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER INNOVATIVE lNFORMATlON *JOHN HANCOCK: (ALIIANY) \'NAVAL UNDERWATER SYSTEMS \'NESTLE FOODS NYS DOT . NYS ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION O'IJRIEN & GERE P&CFOODS . PEACE CORPS PRATT & WHITNEY UP JOHN \NEW COMPANY MAJORS cs CE - ALL MAJORS ALL MAJORS cs ALL MAJORS EE ALL MAJORS CE CE CE ALL MAJORS ALL MAJORS cs BitCH DATE ON CAMPUS 2/22/89 3/l/8 9 3/2/89 3/7/89 2/2 7/8'9 3/1/89 3/8/89 2/23/P::9 2/13/89 2/16/89 2/23/8 9 3/8/8 9 2/28/89 2/21/89 3/6/8 9 RESUME AND TRANSCRIPT ARE REQUIRED1'0SIGN UP FOR AN INTJ~:I~VIEW. SIGN-UPS .f>,RE HELD ONTIL'IWC>DAYSPRIOR TO COMPANY INTERVIEW DATE. FROM THE CAREE:R DEVELOPMENT CENTER. .. INTERNSHIPS The Law, Order & Justice Center of Schenectady needs Volunteers for child advocacy projects. Volunteers will receive the necessary training. The New York State Department of Transportatio.n offers a Summer Intern Program that may be of interest to engineering majors. Aullwood .Au bub on Center and Farm is one of five environmental education centers in the U.S. owned and operated by the National Audubon Society. Interns become involved in areas of involvement SU<Jh as on-site guided progr~ms, teacher workshops, seasonal events, fann management and occ-asionql wildlife rehabilitation·. Cruisin' 98.3 FM? WNYJ of Albany is looking for a good student intern to help in the production of its morning show. FUm Co·mm,ittee Puts 'De'bbie' ~To Bed Continued: from page Davis states that the primary reason for his decision was that his main. priority as chair of the film comrnittee is providing the campus community with high-quality and entertaining films. A pornographic film, he feels,. usually doesn't fall into that category. \I canoniy choose6() movies a year. I don't think tht a porn movie is one of the 6() most enjoyable films that I could find.\ He adds \We (the film committee) are not advocating 'censorship, we jnst think that a porn film would not have been one .of the 6() mostenjoya:ble films (we could show)\. \I'm for .porn movies,\ states Davis. \but not in this setting; in this setting, a porn movie is neither fun nor sexy.\ \I felt that the majority of the campus . wouldn't enjoy it and that movies like· \Betty Blue\ and \Body Heat\ would serve the same purpose and he more entertaining .... He notes that the committee bas proven itself not generally hesitant about showing sexually explicit films, statit1g; \Obviously the movie choices . we've made are not prudish\. Administrators as well as stpdents voiced opinions d.uring last year's controvery.; In a letter to Concordiensis, Dean of Faculty James . Underwood and Dean of Students Joseph Mammola • made it clear that the central '· issue of the debate was \the regard that members of the :_ Union College community • • have for each other\. Last · year's film committee co-chair, :, Kelly Park, ·states that Dean · · Mammola expressed his ' feelings directly to the , committee, \Dean Mammola called in the film committee and said 'it's your decision', but we don't want you to do it\. Davis states that \there was never a confrontation (between the film committee and the administration).\ and claims that had there been one \If I had disagreed with their- opinion I wouldn't have backed down., but I happen tO agree (that a pornographic film is inappropriate), although possibly for different reasons.\ Continued on page 4' P'rofessor Lewis Climbs On The National In-vestment Scene By ELISE lFOODY · News :Eldi tor Professor B:ra.dley Lewis of Union's llconomics Department is $~3 ;073 richer . : ~an he was last N'()vember 28. All things consitiered, that's not a bad salary for three months of work Professor Le\\(i~, as well as fifty Union students are competing wlttll 11 ;000 '' participants niltiomwide jn the AT & T Investrne!lt Challenge. . The competition, made · possible by Wall Street Games, Inc. a11d five major corporate spons<>E's., including AT&T, beganNc:;rv:ember 1 and will come to .a c:lb~e February 28. Each partici p.allt at the beginning of :t11e contest is given a ,ficticn!ll $;i00,000 brokerage accm.nt. The object · of the Challellg<e is to create : the best portf()[iO' possible, selected from o-ver 5,000 stocks and using no ni()re than forty transactions over the four · month period. 'Iheo stock prices used in the co11test are the actual market p1i<:es at the time .of the participa11t':S trade. It is this factor wilicll makes the contest so realistic. The top ten pl!Ilticipants who have developed. the best portfolios at the' e:nd of the contest win a trijJto New York City, a trip to the: Bahamas and a cash' prize raimging from $25~000 for th€- first- place winner to $l,OOD'(()r the tenth place winner. Clll'te11tly, Mark 'rullman; a freshlman here at Union is ranked seve11ty-second overall in the •Contest, and · ·eighth in the freshman division. Unfortunatel~.. in the professor divis io11 of the competition, the prizes are not Professor of Bradley G. Lewis Eco nom i<;;s, products from Reebok and Bulova, also two sponsors of the Challenge. Professor Lewis began the competition thinking that he might not be able to do so well because the contest was relatively short term. However, he was able to put together a winning portfolio after observing market trends and reviewing past performances of '\ specific stocks. This was made. possible through the assistance of David Katz, a former student of Professor Lewis' who is now vice-president of Value . Matrix Management, an investment banking firm in New York City. Thus far in the contest, Professor Lewis' portfolio has appreciated 16% ·while the Dow Jones has only seen a 9% return within the .same time period: This statistic alone explains the reason for Professor Lewis' impressive standing in the constest. There are still two weeks left before the contest ends, arid Professor Lewis is looking forward to the final results and to the possibility of edging his way up into the first place · standing. Until then, it will be quite as glamor<Ju:>. Professor Lewis, who is cutTe.ntly ranked seventh nationa..ll y in this division was re¥'\!ar<led with . business as usual for Professor Lewis with the exception of a trade or two from his . Schenectady office. c·ROSSTALK Scamming ()r Rornance: What Do Union Students Want? Wed n eeSiday, February 22, 1989 Colleg~ Ce.nter Atrium 8:00 pm \Are Union students less li.kely to get involved ill i()ng term relationships? Why?\ fJr[ ng. a date and come on out. Free refreshments. ERRATA Thinkging about teaching? Concordiensi s e::xtends their apol()gies to Andrea Slade, Andrea Rogers an<i the Student Forum .. Andrea Slade isth.e New Freshman Se~retary/ Treasurert.o. the Student Forum. Last week's isstJ.e of Concordi,el'lsis incorrectly stated Andrea Rogers as the new repres~n.tative. This is the course for you ... Issues in American Education (SOC 52) Spring Term Professsors Weiner and Ludwig T, Th 8:50 ~ 10:30 am

- . ' ~- ~ . COBCORDfENSIS February 16,. 1989 ' -. : ~- Delta Psi Delta Looks To Clarify Itnage And_ Status - . . . - . Continued f-rom page 1 students and faculty. Next week's question will be \Why • is Violence Funny?'\ The brothers and· sisters of J)elta Disabled. We will: be donating our time to ·enrich the lives of these disabled 'adults. A Delta Psi Delta official · Association for the Learning ·. appropriate one.;, Delta Psi · D~lta is young and unproven, •. and if we decide to renew oer petition next year, they wil . then have a list of accomplishments as proof of our stability. The president of IFC was quoted last week as believing -that Union's fraternity system is ''unique because it is so old and established ... \ Delta Psi : Delta \had mistakenly believed • : Union's reputation as 'Mother • of Fraternities' as the founding : • ground of 6 of 18 recognized ·. houses, was the source ()f its great tradition.\ The co-ed '• ~ ~ . fraternity; urges the IFC, when Members of Delta Psi. Delta: standing from left: JI'Jiie Comstock, amending their ~.:onstitution, to KeviA Dorrian, Tim Pierce, Carolee Allen, Melissa Bloom. remember that those six \louses Sitting from left 2nd: Roger Fuente, Tracy Mishco, Seth Eisenberg, '' were 'local' when they were Ed Maitner, Michael Migliozzi. first formed, yet their strength Missing: Andy Livernois, Paul Levine, Craig Summers, Derrick Berry. and durability is now a basis Psi ·Delta have also made a commitment to Wildwood, the local chapter of .the New York ' ; for pride. states that \the co-ed fraternity ; One of the editors proposed feels that the IFC decision ot' · last week that \Perhaps the . February 7 was a valid and :. first co-ed fraternity at Union Comittee ''Not Film Advocating Censorship\ pontinued from page 1 . Davis reasons that \There's no room for it. It's o.k. to offend people in the outside . world, but it's important that we respect our peer's sensitivities on this campus-· in this circle.\ Student Activities Director, Lorraine Marra says that she and the film .. committee discussed whether or not to show a porn film, but mentioned that the ultimate decision rested solely with the committee. However, she then claimed that had the film committee· opted ta show a pornographic film she would not have allocated the necessary funding, \If a porn film had. been ordered, they would have . had to look for the money elsewhere.'' Marra stated that if denied student activities money the committee could have then appealed to the Student Forum for funding. When told of Marra's decision not to fund it had he chosen to run a pornographic film; a surprised Davis responded that this was first he had heard about it: \I think I would have fought it (the decision to show a pornographic film)\ stated Marra. She says that she \respects the committee for deciding not to show a porn film\ reasonging that it was the decision that should have been made \out of respect for the campus and their (the film committee's) peers.;, If someone wants to see a pornographic film, she. concluded ·\they cart go off campus\. When questioned whether the Office of the Dean of Students had voiced an official opinion on whether or not a pornographic film should be shown, Assistant Dean of Students Fred Alford mentioned · that Dean mammola had made his feelings clear 'in his and Underwood's letter to Concordiensis last year. When asked specifically whether the office had discussed the matter with this year's committee he responded that it had not, to his knowledge. Had the film committee chosen to run a pornographic film, Alford stated, \I would not have been inclined to censor it. But I would have supported all efforts to persuade them (the film committee) not to show it.\ He concluded by saying thl!t he felt that the administration \Shoulctn•t dictate the college's ideological agenda\ and that it is u:p to the · community to decide it through debate. The final decision not to show a pornographic filfll was made by the film committee on the basis that it would not be the most appropriate, most enjoyable, or highest quality film that they could offer to the campus. Student Forum Pushes To -~ Enact Honor Code~ By PETER COSTA is too wide ranging to be The Student Forum has been decided by themselves alQne. The decision must come from researching and discussing tile · the entire student body. possibility of instituting an · Because of this, the Forum has honor code at Union since tile . ' decided to h.old a campus-wide beginning of Fall Term. In its · vote later this term. Prior to simplest form, a student would • this, they will mail out a more sign a statement promising not ' comprehensive explanation. of to cheat or steal nor to tolerate : those who do. Rules governiag the proposal, explaining exactly what it would entail. academic honesty already exist, • The week of the vote there will bui they -have been handed · · down to us by the faculty aiid be an open discussion of the administration. An honor code, issue. Until then anyone who .. on the other hand, would be has an opinion or suggestion,is\ from the students and · encouraged to write to ejtl'ter administered by the students. the editOrs of Concordi~nsis Many schools, such as or the Student Foroi?- mailbox. Hamilton, William and Mat~.· The entir~· college and Cornell, already have some community i~ . .also invited to form of an honor code. Most,of · our meetirrgs; normally at 8:00 their students take pride in it. Thursday, nights in R<Jem 409 others say it doesn't W9rk. if it ot' t11~ College Center to is decided to adopt the honor discuss the pr.oposal (this code, it will have to be phased week's meeting will be at 5:_15 in gradually. Present students . p.m. in the same room). No would sign the statement on~ matter what the outcome, a voluntarily, inco~in g strong and intelligent response freshmen would be required t() to this issue will demonstrate comply. It would take a few the Forum's responsibility and years for the code to reach its ·sincerity. Everyone is\ urged to maximum effectiveness. . seriously consider this· proposal Members 'Of the Studel1t . and express their views on the ·Forum bylieve that this issue · subject. } :· . Get, a clue. Get an opinion •. Read Concordiensis News Analysis . PAGE TWO would have to he a fratcmity · knowl(ldge of the inner from· within the oomm.u11ity rriechi.ufics of the system tha:n that makes the decision to go . what they bad picked up. a.s co~ed.\ Members of Delta Psi independents and·what: guidance Delta feel\she ignores ·theiact . their national ga:ve them. that the men in all- niale ·. • Similary ly, the members of lh.ce fratemities cl!ose to eriter fuose co-ed are all upperclassmen, organizations .:ts they are and and the roots of Delta Psi Delta are satisfied with what t1Jey at Dartm<>uth extend deep' into offer them. Those men wo11ld that school's J;listory. She then most likely agree that t11eir warned that forming a fraternity houses would not welcome· any . would be difficult; we know ·suggestion to go co-ed in the this. Delta Psi Delta began our · near future, not should they.\ work last September, and have Delta Psi Delta {eels dreir · · ben facing and overcoming house should have no effect · difficulties ever since~ with tile whatsoever on existing hol:lses. support and encouragement ··The students at Union College from some faculty and likely to join a co-ed are administration, students who do not find the Delta Psi Delta hopes this present system suitable for · clears up some of the their personal needs. The same misunderstandings that have : editor speaks of Delta Psi · · been shoo1ing through campus. · Delta's unfamiliarity with the · Delta Psi Delta was not system. When the ·men who petitioning for existence; Delta · founded any chapter of a Psi Delta is here, whether or . national fraternity colonized at not w;e vote on Uni~>n Union, they had no more fraternity issues. M.E. Majors Frustrated With. G·raduation ·Requirement Changes Condnued from p:age 1 December to examine course selection for winter and SIJring . terms. The schedule of ce1JI'ses was adjusted for energy and design stem courses. One of the problems was that we didn't get a gpod, tespons~ to. the questionnaire. Tb.is · caused'·· somewhat of a delay,~~\ : ' .. However, according to .it senior M.E. student, at the meeting at which the questionnaires were passed out (in early December), Milillo did not make it dear that lhese . were of importance. The questionnaires weFe distributed without 1IlUCh regard.· The senior· M.E. rn.aj<>rs ·organized. a meeting Monday evening at 8:30 to discuss tbe problems raised by these recent changes. They also finalized . plans for a .formal meeting earlier this morning between the Mechanical Engi~eering department faculty, the Dean of Engineeri.ng, and the seniors. Wertalik stated that they hoped that Dean of Students Jose11h Mammqia_ and .B~ad ~egistrar Dwight Woif would be a4!e J~~ attend,~ Along with being \able: to iron out problems with the changes, M.E. · seniors are hope(ri) that the meeting and publicity will warn otller UniO,n .students about the possi6i1ity that their curriculals will be disrupted. \We want to prevent this from happening aga~n at Union,\ stated Wertalik. He continued to sa)' that· the College is completel:Y within legal rights due to a waiver printed in ever)' Academic Register. / Positions Available Statistics Lab . Consultant Students interested in working·· as consultant in the Social Sciences Lab during Spring Tenn and next year should see Prot Klein in Social Sciences 109, or call before Friday, February 17. Preference will be given to sophomore social science majors who will hav·e completed a statistics or social science methods course by the end ·of this.year . I I ' I . I

CONCORDI!SNSJS februarJ 16, 1989 Page 5 FEATURE ARTIC'LES . . Stude·nts ·.work With P·rof es·sors By JACQUELINE RANDALL Summer tim.e, blue-green water, hot san, learning, enjoying, experiencing and interacting with- different people ... Does this souad like a summer of research? Well ... it was for fow Union people. Last summer:, Kristen Santos and Donna La!lzendorf; both Union seniors~ Pro£essor Ilene Kaplan of the Sociology Department and Professor Barbara Boyer of the Biology Department all went to Woods Hole on Cape Cod for their research. The purpose was to examine soci -ec<momic and ecological trends associated with commerc.ial value ·.of specific mario~ species. The project was fuDded by three .different grantS. Kristen S-antos wa~ a summer resea:rcll intern who wOFked on an lnterdisc.plinary research project nm by Professor Kapla11. Kristen held a Dana Fellow-ship and was chosen to work: o:n the Cape andhelp study specific changes in . the New England conch fishing industry. She conducted interviews with fishermen, seafood buyers and marine policy officia:ls .an.d als(> gathered infotmation Jur her_ r~March by :~btfi{ii 'irai,l~ ·,to. ihohitor the coach· Ji~h. At the end of the smmer, Kristen's fimil results were published. in the jou~nat · Bioio.g·~.e~l Bulletin and she· also presented a paper summitry at the Marine BioJ.ogical Generai '' Meeting in August 1988. Kristen's summer experience was a good opportunity to work with faculty and others in an unusual environment. She states, \It was great to interact with professors outside of the classroom and work with them directly on a project. I got to know them as people, not just as .professors.\ · Donna Lanzendorf along with another student from Hamilton College worked directly with Professor Barbara Boyer. Donna worked und.er a Pew Grant that is given to five small liberal arts colleges under CorneH University. Each institution gets a summer research grarit to involve at least two undergraduates and one has to be from one of the Pew Grantforllerresearch.Sile other Pew institutions. Donna was interested in the flatw()rm worked in the Marine that li-ves in the conch. Tile b d · conch ·acts a!; a host for tlle .Siological La· oratory stu ymg marine flatw-orm. Professor the .development o{ a polyclad flatworm. She studied. the Boyer examiJted flatworms to embryos of the flatworm with furtller study their primitive scanning electron microscopy, spiral cleavage and collected other species of tb:e detenninative development. flatworm and examined their Results of thl.e entire research embryo development. experience co11cluded that the Professor Kaplan's purpose conch industry' in New England was more sociological in its is undergoing JJrice fluctuatiuns nature. She was interested in and tech no 1 o g i Cal examining the socio-economic diversificatio11. Competition is problems associa~ed with the- developing between large scale . fishing indU.s-try. She used the .. fisherme11 ..who work on : Marine Policy. Center ·of the draggers that are 70-90 feet Woods Hole Oceanqgraphic long verstts the small craft Institution as her base of conch fishermen who work on operatiQris. Boyer's and boats about l() feet long. Also, Kaplan's project is. funded by there are many ecological theCenterforFieldResearch,a problems i11volving the private.~searcb foundation. possible deple-tion of tj:le New ProfeSsQr ;Boyer received a England con(;b fishery aond Israel. _,·A N~ew Term Abroad By AMY IJA.BOFF Israel i,s real. \It is a real, new, exciting term abroad being offer.ed next winter ·terrn. .Rather, the J)rogram' ·wtn be held at the Ben Gu:rion · . University in Beersheba. Beersheba: i!l a town of approximately 170,000 Jle<>ple located at the N()rthem edge of the Negev desert. lt has a wonderful warm climate and is 1 1/2 hours from Jerusalem, 1 1/4 hours from Tel Aviv and 3 to 3 1/2 bows from Israel's · resort Eilat. rt is also a large repository uf Soviet Jewish ~mmigrants and -has many Bedouin settle-ments nearby. Beersheba and its .surroandings have many gel()grapllical and geological features · these include a moo11crater park, the - huge biblical fortress called A vdat, and .Sde Boker which contains a large kibbutz as well · as the Ben (}ari-on Museum. The term abmad will consist of 3 10-week <:curses including Hebrew, Political Science or Sociology and History, all taught by very distinguished professors . .AJs(). as an integral part of the cu:rricula, there will be at least 10 planned· travel/tQurfng days. Students will live together 'in an on- c.ampus dormitory ~~d will have access to the University's library; dining service; and sports complex. Each student will also he assigned a host family who resides in .~ Seersheba. This is· an excellent opportunity :to be a part of Israeli ~fe off-campus. Another added feature of this new program is the University's proximity to a main bus terminal so that travel and exploration of Israel's beautiful country .can be dol!e. with ease. The switcil from an Israel term on a kibbutz, as has been the case in years past, to a : University-based program is an attempt. to take the best elements of· the previous .program and integrate them into more of an academic experience. Options gained from the switch include the ease of personal transportation aro~nd the country; the opportunity to visit- kibbutzim and -Bedouin villages, the possibility of joining an archeological dig., and the integration with Israelis and other foreign Stlldents. The Middle East is· a central . focus of histo:rical, cultural and political concern. Any person Jew or non-Jtl!w will find a part of him/herself somehow involved within this cradle of civilization. Th.e Middle East is a place wltete there is a .sampling of world culttrres. Isr~tel is a ma:gnet for Western civ-iLization and Eastern cultures~ Israel is a magnet for Westerrf civilization and ' ' Eastern cul~es. It is the b()me of Islam, Ju.daism, and Christianity. ISrael mak.es ancient histMy and· ·,the Bible come alive. Tourists are able to study about a.nd walk the })1\ths of Abraham and Christ as they once did. Israel is real. Experience this term abroad in a wonderfully enriching 11ew educational climate. Applications are due during spring; term but the tim_e to think abo11t going is 11ow! Professors Berk; Greenberg. and Weiner a:re available if you have .any qu.estions. The Ben Gurian University Oven;eas Dir:ector, a na::tive Americatl and professor of ancient history, will be ltere at Union sometime wi.thin the next twc weeks. Wat:Cb for details! scientific collecting· problems associated with rising costs. The conch themselves are being wiped out because of this, the price ·of conch is rising. This places them in higher demanq and makes them more valuable to fishermen and thus increases competition among all the people involved. This summer, both Professor Kaplan and Professor Boyer are continuing their research project on Cape Cod with funds from the Center for Field Research. Barbara Boyer also has an additional grant from the National Science Foundation. Two positions are also avail~ble to Union students. One student is needed to help with fieldwork operations. This will include interviewing and observing fishermen and harbor activities. 'The student should be familiar with the social sciences. Another student is necdet.l. to do rcscar.ch in the laboratory. This studtnt should have a science background and preferably already llave taken embryology. The summer of research at Woods Hole, CapeCud proved Lo be rewarding CXJlCr'ience in which the faculty benefitted from their student help. Professor Kaplan C()ndudes, ··1 found it especially rewarding to work with a Uni()n College student on my specific research program. I saw K•istcn as a research assistant~ not a student. I am lookin~ foward to this experience nex:t summer.\ Students who arc interested in fieldwork and firsthand research experience should contact Professor Kaplan or Professor Boyer. According to Constitution By-Laws: Electi():msfor Concordiensi.s Editor-In-Chief will be heldon THURSDAY, MARCH 2ND Please sign up with Mrs. MaiTa if you. plan • onrunn1ng • All staff and editorial board members that will be attending Union the next three tenns are eligible to rnn. LU (). ~ 1-.~ (() t- ~ <( - w ~ - ::c \\\ (/)~ . ..... 0:: LU <( ~ (!) ~ 2 w >8 II ....J. ~ ... __. N 0 :c o:i u LIJO UJ ·.~ u... z 0 0 :J:~ z .. ~--~ :::::> '-'\

~ II II 0 :2 oil' LlJ ::J _J 0 > aJ 0 I-'- 0 :r: o_ Page .() ij Dining Out With Oll-ie & Morris By STEVEN COLE, BRETT MAL-OFSKY Upon nearing The Grog Shoppe, Mortis explained to Ollie that Erie Bmdevard was once a canal giving the city of Schcneotady vital materials to support its industrial base. However, all OIJie cared about was that Erie now supports a restaurant that could potentially satiate his thirst while filling his jowls with tasty comestibles. We entered into a dark wooden atmosphere that smelled as nostalgic as it looked; Ollie liked this. At nearly six on a Saturday afternoon the restaurant was virtually cmpty.and the bar was as well. The courHy men and their dates were immediately seated an-d offered drinks by a gentleman who played the roles of bartender, waiter, and chef. We botQ opted for Bloody Marys instead of the beer because the only brands on tap were Matts and Michclob (neither a favorite of either): The Bloody Marys were heavy on the horseradish, not very spicy, and reminded us of something that should he ser~ed aside a bowl of shrimp. Olhe had a second one and he claims it was more traditionaL Morris began with the Texas trail chili. It was covered with chopped onions, sour cream, and cheddar cheese and then baked to a golden brown. He then went with 'the Ambassador, a sandwich consisting of roa$:L beef, pastrami and corned beef !,'Tilled with Swiss chese and Russian dressing. Unfortunately, they had run auf of rye bread. This left either white bread or Italian and we think it is obvious what the choice was. Who cats a sandwich like this on white bread? The filling combination was excellent, leaving Morris' palate very pleased. In addition, the Ambassador came with a side of fresh tasting, homemade style potato salad-a pleasant alternative to french fries. Ollie erdered Pacho's Nachos, a baked crock of Frenc~ Onion Soup, and a salad with optional blue cheese dressing. Served hot, .the light tortiUa chips with melted cheese were surrounded by a . spicy Mexican sauce. Thep · sauce was a bit too light on the jalapenos for OHie, but he did like the flavor and recommends it. The French Onion Soup was on par with other eateries, and at $2.25 for the crock, a decent value. The salad,. another good value, was fresh, crisp, and ~he perfect compliment to the soup. There was not much of a waitconsidering there w:as only the O!le gentleman working in .the resta.urant. The quality .of Mortis; sandwich made it wortl1 the wait. Th_y lack of patrons gave us ail eerie feel as we waited for our dishes. The food and drinks were all priCed well, and we appreciated the creative approach The Grog Shoppe took when designing their entrees. The menu listed many interesting coffees, cocktaiLs, ~nd desserts that we unfortunately did not try. If you are one who likes a relaxed atmosphere, and decent prices we recommend The Grog Shoppe. A Plateful Of Questions \What's wrong with comfortably numb?\ A small group of people met in the fourth floor lounge of the College Center to discuss just this on Tuesday. Tllis meeting was the first of the weekly luncheon discussions to be hosted by a newly formed group on campus who are calling themselves \A Plateful of Questions.\ Every Tuesday, a topic will be presented in question form and discussed informally over lunch (11:45-12:30) by any students, faculty or administration members who wish to join. Why .are we even bothering to dq this? (note the question torm): x ·riaietur ·of 'ouesiions would . like to fo·ster an informal intellectual environment on campus. These discussions c<>uld provide a space in . which people would talk to each otfter r.ather than at each other. It could be a place ~here marginalized 'groups ~n ; .I campus would have a voice. It also could increase student/faculty dial<>gue. Maybe you just want a change in pace from the usual lunch- time gossip. Whatever the case may be, please fee-Hree to 'Stop in· to see what's going on. If you have an idea f<>r ·a discussion topic,. put it in/ question form. and drop it in· die camp11s ~mail . (send·~ Jo Religio:us Progra.ms . <;/.o· Platefal of. ·Que~ions). We. would love ~0. ~ear :what y~u h~ye to.say. , · · . , . • \' ' I- ~ - BASB~lENT OF HIJ1(AN1TlES WORDPROCESSING AND WORDPERFECT CLAS:{ES Um\F:RINTING FOR l COPY Dlfr MATRIX FUR JR11TIPLE COPIE~ FREE!!! Shades Of Grey By . TOM SAR TINI Ecginnin;g on Sunday, February 1'9, Mountebanks for the ·second year proudly p'resellts Sha,des of Grey to the Union College Community. Shades of Grey is a group of skits· by ,for, an.d abon.t the Union students. Tile sixteen member cast, · under the direction of Debbie Byer and · the assistance of Pam Kustas, . have been practidng to get the show ready for tbe~past three weeks. · The skits have been written in j<Jint effort by both the director and cast. Their purpose is to reflect stude1lt life here at Union. These skits cover :real topics 'and controversies such as dating,. labeling and stereotypes? racism, college appreciation, as well as bulcrnia and suicide. Each· show will be appr<>xi,matelj two hours and · will be ·followed with discussion by t:he audience UNION COLLEGE MOUNTEBANKS PRESENTS: 'immediately afterwards led by psychology professor Gordon Atlas. The presentation hopes to attract a wide diversity of peo.ple in order to obtain a variety of different views and opinions on the topics of each skit. The shows will be held' on four consecutive nights in four different locations. On Sunday, February 19, the skits will take place at Potter house, on the 20th in Fox lounge, on the 21st in Davidson lounge, and finally on Wednesday, the 22nd, in Social Sciences room m6. The shows are in different locations in hope of attracting a larger audience to come watch and participate. AU shows begin at eight o'clock and are sure to be worth while. So take some time to listen to the issues and then participate by discussing with fellow students and facillty to see what people on campus really think and feel about such topics and controversies. PERFORMED~AT: Potter House on Sund~y, Feb. 19. Fox Lounge on Mon9~y, Feb. 20 Davidson Lounge on Tuesday, Feb. 21 Social Scien-ces 016 on Wednesday, Feb: 22 Ma.de BY Union. Students; . FOR Union Students, AIIOUT Union Students. ~ ~·· . .-~- Ar:~ you·aware thai your· family. · . planning .J:ig~ts are' .fn jeop_ardy?: .. Do you ·feel that the .. exercis~ of · those , rights is· a purely. p·ers~nal . . ? m'a,tter · ;I. .li\-'~' ~ '. . ..· .. , •. - - ~~ so· you· need to .. take . actio~ - t , . . ~.- ... - ·' . IlOW'. . . . . .- . . Please attend . a· general interest meeting: to discuss ·the formation of. a prochoice advocaacy· ·group. CC410 •

~ 0: 0: 0 ::2 ell w ::::; _j 0 >- aJ 0 t- 0 c:: Page 6 CONCORDlENSIS Feb.ruary 16~ 1999 FEATURE A.RTICLES 0 0 .. 0 • ., • 0 0 0 \ 0 I , 0 0 0 0 / t. Dining Out With Ollie & Morris Hy STEVEN COLE, HRETT MALOFSKY lJpon nearing Th.e Grog Shoppc, Morris explained to Ollie that Eric Boulevard was once a canal giving !he city of Schenectady vital materials to support its industrial base. f lowever, all Ollie cared about was that Erie now supports a restaurant that could potentially satiate his thirst while filling his jowls with tasty comestibles. We entered into a dark wooden atmosphere that smelled as nostalgic as it looked; Ollie liked this. At nearly six on a Saturday afternoon the restaurant was virtually empty and the bar was as well. The courtly men and their dates were immediately seated and offered drinks hy a gentleman who played the roles of bartender, waiter, and chef. We hoth opted for Bloody Marys instead of the hcer because the only brands on tap were Matts and Michelob, (neither a favorite of either). The Bloody Marys were heavy on the horseradish, not very spicy, aHd reminded us of something that should be served aside a bowl of shrimp. Ollie had a second one and he c !aims it was more traditional. Morris began with the Texas trail chili. It was covered with chopped onions, sour cream, and cheddar cheese and then baked to a golden brown. He then went with the Ambassador, a sandwich consisting of roast beef, pastrami and corned beef ,grilled with Swiss chese and Russian dressing. Unfortunately, they had run out of rye bread. This left either white bread or Italian and we think it is obvious what the choice was. Who cats a sandwich like this on white bread? The filling combination was excellent, leaving Morris' palate very pleased. In addition, the Ambassador came with a side of fresh tastiRg, homemade style potato salad-a pleasant alternative to french fries. Ollie ordered Pacho's Nachos, a baked crock of French Onion Soup, and a salad with optional blue cheese dressing. Served hot, the light tortilla chips with melted cheese were surrounded by a spicy Mexican sauce. The sauce was a bit too light on the jalapenos for Ollie, but he did like the flavor and recommends it. The French Onion Soup was on par with other eateries, and at $2.25 for the crock, a decent value. The salad, another good value, was fresh, crisp, and the perfect compliment to the soup. There was not much of a wait considering there was only the one gentleman working in the restaurant. The quality of Morris' sandwich made it worth the wait. The lack of patrons gave us an eerie feel as we waited for our dishes. The food and drinks were all priced well, and we appreciated the creative approach The Grog Shoppe took when designing their entrees. The menu listed many interesting coffees, cocktails, and desserts that we unfortunately did not try. If you arc one who likes a relaxed atmosphere, and decent prices we recommend The Grog Shoppe. A Plateful Of Questions \What's wrong wllh comfortably numb?\ A small group of people met in the fourth floor lounge of the College Center to discuss just this on Tuesday. This meeting was the first of the weekly luncheon discussions to be hosted by a newly formed group on campus who are calling themselves \A Plateful of Questions.\ Every Tuesday, a topic will be presented in question form and discussed informally over ~ ;; lunch (11:45-12:30) by any students, faculty or administration members who wish to join. Why arc we even bothering to. do this? (note the question form). A Plateful of Questions would like to foster an informal intellectual environment on campus. These discussions could provide a space in which people would talk to each other rather than at each other. It could be a place where marginalized groups on campus would have a voice. It also could increase student/faculty dialogue. Maybe you just want a change in pace from the usual lunch- time gossip. Whatever the case may be. please feel free to stop in to sec what's going on. If you have an idea for a discussion topic, put it in question form and drop it in the campus mail (send to Religious Progr<)ms c/o Plateful of Questions). We would love to hear what you have to say. tl/ ~ I BA BEMENT OF HUMANITIES ~ U~mRINTING FOR 1 COPY Dttr turniT FUR jlJLTIPLE COFIE~ FREE!!! Shades Of Grey H_y TOM SARTINI Beginning on Sunday, February 19, Mountebanks for the second year proudly p·resents Shades of Grey to the Union College Community. Shades of Grey is a group of skits· by,for, and about the Union students. The sixteen member cast, under the direction of Debbie Byer and the assistance of Pam Kustas, have been practicing to get the show ready for the past three weeks. The skits have been written in joint effort by both the director and cast. Their pw:pose is to reflect student life here at Union. These skits cover real topics and controversies such as dating, labeling and stereotypes, racism, college appreciation, as well as bulcmia and suicide. Each show will be approximately two hours and will be followed with discussion by the audience UNION COLLEGE MOUNTEBANKS PRESENTS: immediately afterwards led by psychology professor Gordon Atlas. The presentation hopes to attract a wide diversity of people in order to obtain a variety of different views and opinions on the topics of each skit. The shows will be held on four consecutive nights in four different locations. On Sunday, February 19, the skits will take place at Potter house, on the 20th in Fox lounge, on the 21st in Davidson lounge, and finally on Wednesday, the 22nd, in Social Sciences romn 016. The shows are in different locations in hope of attracting a larger audience to come watch and participate. All shows begin at eight o'clock and are sure to be worth while. So take some time to listen to the issues and then participate by discussing with fellow students and faculty to see what people on campus really think m1d feel about such topics and controversies. PERFORMED AT: Potter House on Sunday, Feb. 19 Fox Lounge on Monday, Feb. 20 Davidson Lounge on Tuesday, Feb. 21 Social Sciences 016 on Wednesday, Feb: 22 Made BY Union Students, FOR Union Students, ABOUT Union Students. Are you aware that your family planning rights are in jeopardy? Do you feel that the exercise of those rights is a purely personal matter? If so you need to take action now! Please attend. a general interest meeting to discuss the formation of a prochoice advocaacy group. Wednesday, Feb. 22 7:00 CC410

·Spetlkillg llllnds Uriion·College's very own sign language club invites you tojoin them Tuesc!ay evenings irHhe college center, Rm. 410. This is a beginner's class fn sign, and those . . witb some experience are • encouraged to join us from 8 pm to 8:30 pin to increase voeabvlruy • skills. !f Y:OU are interested ii) Spring: term class· offerings, call Doona at · .. lC4350. ' tw·o. spruce pottery WHEEL-THROWN STONEWARE .· 158 JAY STREET, ~ SCHENECTADY; NY 12305 ~ (51:8) 393-5011 SHOW ROOM HOURS: Tues. 10~5; Thurs. 12-8 and by appt. Page-·7 FEA.TURE ARTICLES The Health And ·Fitness ·Column By JACQUELINE RANDALL Features EdHor Why is it that most of us \break out 11 during midterms and finals week? Why do we get these ugly ted zits on our faces? Whatcauses_ them? How can we get rid of them? Should we give up all that ehocolate that we eat? Can we blame the pizza and fast food from last night? Or js it just stress that causes these pimples? No one really knows why some people get acne while others don't. Some believe it is hereditary a:nd runs in the family. What is .known is that the hormones from adolescent years play an important role in in ·reasirrg the activity of the glands. in the skin. The skin's natural oil is supposed to flow from the deep inside glands where it is originally made right through the skin's surface. If this doesn't occur, pimples emerge.. Acne is caused by the blockage of oil that is not brought through the surface of the skin. It is a disorder ofthe oil glands. Many dermatologists claim that diet affects the skin, yet, studies indicate that chocolate, potato chips, doritoes, nuts and other greasy foods arc not the cuiprit of these problems; rather; it is our hormones causing these zits. Stress, with the accompaniment of hormonal secretions worsens action. Many people lake antibiotics to solve their skin problems .. Vitamin supplements are an alternative. Virumin A is oft~n recommended in U.S. RDA amounts (Recommended Dietary Allowances) to· help promote healthy skin. Vitamin A comes in three main forms: retinal, retinol and retinic acid. Another nutrient that is Iinked with clear skin is zinc.· Zinc is necessary in maintaining normal blood levels of Vitamin A and also works with other enzymes that relate to the functions of the skin glands. Also~ B-complex vitamins help to reduce oiliness and Vitamin E is known to minimize • scaring. · The sun helps dry the skin and allows some pealing to open the oil glands. up and reduce the infection. Also, reducing the amount of fat in our diet helps to control eruptions. ·Eating vegetables, '~There exists nothing so good or bad but thinking makes it so\ Hamlet By SUSAN SHAFFER \There exists nothing good or had but thinking makes it so.\ Hamlet. Post· Valentine's Day despon- dency, Mid winter blues. A btirdtmsome workload. Sudden solicitude. OUCH! STRESS!. I am sick and tired . of it. ·oay by day as the pressures progressively bear upon our heads, hearts and nasal .. pas.sages,. we are. continually being beaten down .. NO . MORE! I ;ha'\i'e finally aCcepted the fact ~at oui busy· lifestyles wiU neither ease no:r: will the burdens cease. Soon we' wtu be expelled. from thiS'' comfortable womb, in which· we have been nurtured and . protetted .. wen, .at leaSt ·where the college would .. like . to believe this·is true ,.·we ~can not. deny that we ha~ been and~ being treated a$ children. The college .Jooks.{)ut f()r Us; with our own best interests in mind. Soon however we will begin to fend for ourselves. leaving this protective den of security. Whichever way one chooses to perceive our environment, one can not avoid the constraints. These constraints are the result ofspecific circumstances which we may not be able to .alter. In this case, we nee<J, to change the way in which we encounter the circumstances in order to remain sane and happy. This is a necessity for survival. Hopefully you were able to survive Valentine's Day, if not perhaps this survival gui'de will better prepare you for next year. No cards, om shanti. No kisses, om shanti. No flowers, om shanti. No luck, om shanti. The problems which we stress over daily arc often resolved within time- om shanti speeds up the process. The workload this term seems to be outrageously burdensome. However, througb a well organized schedule and~ several thousand \om shanti•s\ we can learn to cope. We tend te spend rnore time agonizing than trying to resal ve Ollr problems; We can not be slaves .to the past nor will anything be accomplished by being miserable, we need to gain control of the present. OM SHANTI. OM SHANT!. OM SHANTL OM SHANTI. ·OM SH~TI. OM SHANT!. ·oM SHANT!. OM SHANTI. OM SHANTl. ·oM: ~HANtl. I am a peaceful s<)uL I am a peaceful soul. I am a peaceful soul. No matter how many times we will say it, we will not make it so. We need to believe it. We. need to change our thought patterns in. order to develop that sense of control and peacefulness which we desire. Life is so interesting ,due to changes and variety but often adaptation causes stress. Instead of using the conventional modes of escape, we need to learn how to cope. We need to be like running water which when obstructed flows around its impediment. , . Hamlet made seuse when he said \There exists nothing good or bad but thinking makes it so ... Our attitudes control the way in which we think. These attitudes are intimately connected with how we view ourselves. Negative ~ttitudes are often developed through a lack of self-respect and self- confidence. These attitudes hinder our happiness. Challenges are fun when you have the .confidence that you can meet them. We tend' to blow things out of proportion, dwell on past mistakes and wallow in our own miserableness. We can catch ourselves and move · forward with the help of om shanti. When faced with an obstacle which begins to cause anxiety recite the words om shanti - I am a peaceful being. Thus we can flow around the .impediment without hcinog stopped, d'estroyed or destructive. FoHowl,ng · the werds of Hamlet we can ·choose those thoughts whiCh .. will lead to experiences of happiness and contentment. Union College students may take nonccredil courses offered by Gradual~ and Continuing Studies for 1/2 the tuition costs. A variety of courses are offered in business, computers, trips and excursions. You may want to take a non-credit · course to help prepare you for future careers or just for xour . leisure enjoyment. All courses have different starting arid ending dales · and vary in cost. The earliest courses for winter/spring 89 start on Marth 6. For more information or . for a free catalogque, call Graduate and Continuing Studies at 370-6638 or stop by Wells House, fruits, whulcgrains, fish and chicken and drinking plenty of water help smooth the ugly mess. Lastly, cleanliness and washing after exercise arc obviously important. Vacationing, resting in the sun, and sitting on the beach all have a relaxing effect on the skin because th~ sun inhibits bacterial activity and the water acts as a cleansing agent. Hopefully in four weeks all our zits wiH be gone and we'll be sitting in the sun. So ... thcre's another reason to look forward to spring break and the end of winter term. Please address all your questions and comments to lhe Health and Fitness Editor, Box 1993. Thanks for your suggestions and comments. If tomorrow morning the sky falls ... have clouds for breakfast. If night falls ... use stars for street lamps. If the moon gets stuck in a tree ... cover the hole with a strawberry. If you have butterflies in your stomach ... ask them into your heart. If your heart catches in your throat... ask a bird how she sings. If the birds forget their songs ... listen to a pebble instead. It you lose a memory .•. embroider a r:tew one to take its place. If you lose the key ... throw away the house. If the clock stops ... use your own hands to tell time. If the light goes out ... wear it aroUnd your neck and go· dancing. If the bus doesn't come ... catch a fast cloud. If irs the last dance ... dance backwards. If you find your socks don't match ... stand in a flowerbed. • If your shoes don't fit... give them to the fish in the pond. II your horse needs shoes ... let him use his wings instead. If the sun never shines again ... hold fireflies in your hands to keep warm . If you're afraid of the dark ... remember the night rainbow. If there is no happy ending ... make one out of cookie ' 'dough.

Column By JOYCE WHIDDEN Schenectady'~ Hudson Valley region is ()n~ profuse with black history ace;ording to A. J. Willi&ms--'Myets:, :Ph,!'·; ln lli~ h::ctq'r¢1 ·• t~i.S·: p~st Tll!urds~y·, Wi11i.a.n}s;...Myerrs ~Usc~ssed tin dings ·. of • h;i$ . eX,tjplis:tv.~ reseatf;~ 'al)~L off sh~iqg tBtatlsli~s · Civil War time:r.: ·. .. ,$. . W~lJiaJ1l~·M{}yet~~ -a prp(~~s~! ~q ~JJ~ ~eW. J?~.tz. n;Qte<t tltatpre&ti~:tous fa~ilies ftom tll~s; ·~re:a l;ield §laves. partipu~~·~~ d)'! th~ then~alfluent Renn8e~aeJ.' Coumty. ·· . · Much· of Willliar.ns~Myeis lecture f(J0~$ed ein theili)Q{fence of early B~ack:sl in Americ~n history. 1:his ;influence 1s exhibited in th;;~ U.S.'s present econombc system. He mentioned ~at :s~:verttlJ?Ittck men and wo.ro6n n~ve;. been omitted frotit, cont~rilpotafy . history b®ks, • It w~s •cited as unfortunate· simce these peqple would pro~id~ rol~:modvls .for the . :Stac;:k ycut4 .> tod~y. ·Moreover, Wi1Eiams-.Uyers felt that the presen't e<J1ucational system nee:ds 110 be ,revised. ~Would .caJJ for a. dramatic Spe11king Hands Union College'siJery own sign language club invctes you to join them Tuesday e'i/enings in the college earlier, Rrrn. 410. This is a beginner's class in sign, and those with so111e experience are encouraged tc joi;n :us from 8 pm to 8:30 pm t() increase vocabulary skills. If you are ir1terested in Spring tarm class C>fferilligs, call Donna at x4l5D. two spruce pottery WHEEL-THROWN STONEWARE 158 .JAY STREET, SCHENECTAV~; NY 12305 . (51 S.) 393-5011 SHOW ROOM HOURS: Tues. 1 0-5; 111urs. 12-8 and br sppt. CRUISE SHIP;~ ,, JOBS! ,, / ' •12,0QO to $50,000 ~; • • • - - •• Call now! lx, -;;,--- '1-206-736-7000 e~l. •1:2()C (Call relunoahle) CONCO'RDJENSIS FebP.uary·· 16, 198~ Page 7 FEATURE ARTICLES The Health And ·Fitness Column By JACQUELINE RANDALL Features Editor Wfuy is it that most of us \break out\ during midterms and finals week? Why do we get these ugly red zits on our faces? What causes them? How can we get rid of them? Should we give up all that chocolate that we eat? Can we blame the pizza and fast food from last night? Or is it just stress that causes these pimples? No one really knows why some people get acne while oth.ers don't. Some believe it is hereditary and runs in the family. What is kHown is that the hormones from adolescent years play an important role in ii:1 reasing the activity of the glands iN the skin. The skin's natural oil is supposed to !1ow from the deep inside glands where it is originally made right through the skin's surface. If this doesn't occur, pimples emerge. Acne is caused by the blockage of oil that is not brought through the surface of the skin. It is a disorder of the oil glands. Many dermatologists claim that diet affects the skin, yet, studies indicate that chocolate, potato chips, doritoes, nuts and other greasy foods arc not the culprit of tllese problems; rather; it is our hormones causing these zits. Stress, with the accompaniment of hormonal secretions worsens action. Many people take antibiotics to solve their skin problems. Vitamin supplements arc an alternative. Vi't<.~mi Iii A is often recGmmended in U.S. RDA amounts (Recommended Dietary Allowances:) to help promote healthy skir1. Vitamin A comes in three rnnin forms: retinal, retinol and rctinic acid. Another lilutricnt tnaL is linked with clear skin is zinc Zinc is necessary in maintaining normal blood levels of Vitamin A alild also works 1vith other enzymes that relate to the functions of the skin glands. Also, B-complex vi tun ins help to reduce oiliness ancl Vitamin E is known to n1inimizc . scarillg. The sun helps dry the skin and allows some pealing to open the oil glands up and reduce the inf ccli<)n. Also, reducing the amount of rat in our diet helps to control eruptions. Eating vegetables, ''There exists nothing so good or bad but thinking makes it so\ Hamlet By SUSAN SHAFFER \There exists nothing good or bad but thinking makes it so.\ Hamlet. Post-Valentine's Day despon- dency. Mid winter blues. A burdensome workload. Sudden solicitude. OUCH! STRESS! I am sick and tired of it. Day by day as the pressures progressively bear upon our heads, hearts and nasal passages, we are continually being beaten down. NO MORE! I have finally accepted the fact that our busy lifestyles will neither ease nor will the burdens cease. Soon we will be expelled from this comfortable womb in which we have been nurtured and protected. Well, at least where the college would like to believe this is true ~ we can not deny that we have been and aref being treated as children. The college looks out for us, with our own best interests in mind . Soon however we will begin to fend for ourselves, leaving this protective den of security. Whichever way one chooses to perceive our environment, one can not avoid the constraints. Th.ese constraints are the result of specific circumstances which we may not be able to alter. In this case, we need to change the way in which we encounter the circumstances in order to remain sane and happy. This is a rrecessity for survival. Hopefully you were able to survive Valentine's Day, if not perhaps this survival guide will better prepare you for next year. No cards, om shanti. No kisses, om shanti. No flowers, om shanti. No luck, om shanti. The problems which we stress over daily arc often resolved within time- om shanti speeds up the process. The workload this term seems to be outrageously burdensome. However, through a well organized schedule and a several thousand \om shanti's\ we can learn to cope. We tend to spend more time agonizing than trying to resolve our problems. We can not be slaves to the past nor will anything be accomplished by being miserable, we need to gain control of the present. OM SHANTI. OM SHANTI. OM SHANT!. OM SHANTI. OM SHANT!. OM SHANTI. OM SHANT!. OM SHANTI. OM SHANTI. OM SHANTI. I am a peaceful soul. I am a peaceful soul. I am a peaceful soul. No matter how many times we will say it, we will not make it so. We need to believe it. We need to change our thought patterns in order to develop that sense of control and peacefulness which we desire. Life is so interesting due to changes and variety but often adaptation causes stress. Instead of using the conventional modes of escape, we need to learn how to cope. We need to be like running water which when obstructed flows around its impediment. Hamlet made sense when he said \There exists nothing good or bad but thinking makes it so.\ Our attitudes control the way in which we think. These attitudes arc inLimately connected with how we view ourselves. Negative attitudes arc often developed tllrough a lack of self-respect and self- confidence. These attitudes hinder our haJJ:piness. ChaHenges are fu11 when you have the .confidence that you can meet them. We tend to blow t.hings out of proportion, dwe11 on past mistakes and wallo-w in our own miserableness. We can catcll ourselves ami move forward with the help of om shanti. When faced with an obstacle which begins to cause anxiety recite the words om sha11ti - I am a peaceftil being. Thus we can flow ar<>und the impediment without being sto]Jped, destroyed or destructive. Following .the words of Hamlet we can ch<Jose those thoughts which will lead to experiences of happiness and contentment. Union College students may take mn-credit courses olfered by Graduate and Continuin~ Studies for i/2 the tuition costs. A variety of courses are offered in business, computers, trips and ex<:ursions. You may want to take a no11-credit course to help prepare you for future careers or just for ~our leisure enjoyment. All courses have different starting and ending dates and vary in cost. The Earliest courses for winter/spring 89 start on March 6. For more information or for a free catalogque, call Graduate and Continuing Studies ai 370·6638 or stop by Wells H()Use. fruits, wholegrains, fish and chicken and drinking plenty of water help smooth the ugly mess. Lastly, c Icanlincss and washing after exercise arc obviously imponant. Vacationing, resting in the sun, and sitling on the beach all have a relaxing effect on the skin because the sun inhibits bacterial activity and the water acts as a cleansing agent. Hopefully in four weeks all our zits will he gone and we'll he sitting in the sun. So ... thac's another reason to look ft)rward to spring break and the end of winter term. Please address all your questions and comments to the Health and Fitness Editor, Box 1993. Thanks for your suggestions and comments. tf tomorrow morning the sky falls ... have clouds for breakfast. If night faits ... use stars for street !amps. tf the moon gets stuck in a tree ... cover the hole with a strawberry. ff you have butterflies in your stomach ... ask them into your heart. If your heart catches in your throat... ask a bird how she sings. If the birds forget their songs ... listen to a pebble instead. If you lose a memory ... embroider a new one to take its place. If you lose the key ... throw away the house. If the clock stops ... use your own hands to tell time. If the tight goes out... wear it around your neck and go dancing. If the bus doesn't come ... catch a fast cloud. If it's the last dance ... dance backwards. If you find your socks don't match ... stand in a flowerbed. If your shoes don't fit... give them to the fish in the pond. If your horse needs shoes ... let him use his wings instead. If the sun never shines again ... hold fireflies in your hands to keep warm. If you're afraid of the dark ... remember the night rainbow. If there is no happy ending ... make one out of cookie 1 dough.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS /l.ebr!4(1ry 16, .. 1989 _.,.~ iSCIENCE & 'TECHNOLOGY Engineering Society and pop.ular Science Magazine Recognize 160% Efficient Furnace lnv,ented by Union Professor The home size electricity producing condensing furn.ar.e, invented by PFofessor Fr:;;nk Wicks of Union College, and that has previously been recommended by the National Bureau of Standards and awarded a $70,000 development grant by the United States Department of Energy and featured as the invention of the week by the New York Times, has now received additional recognition. In January, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers bestowed this invention with its Energy Resources Technology Award at its Annual Energy-sources Technology Conference and Exhibition in Houston, Texas, where Dr. Wicks presented this new conc~pt in fuel conserving cogeneration to this meeting of more than 1 ,000 energy experts from industry, government and universities fwm the United States and various foreign countries. This invention is also the subject of a major article in the March issue of Popular Science of which about two million copies are now being distributed to subscribers and news stands, and has already resulted in numerous letters and phone calls to Dr. Wicks from interested readers. This system consists of a natural gas fueled single cylinder air cooled engine connected to a conventional motor, that automatically becomes a generator when driven by the engine, inside a furnace type module. The result is that 20% of the input fuel energy is converted to electricity and virtuaHy all of the remaining energy is usefully recovered as heat for the house. The claim of 160% effective efficiency is based up.on the fact that electric energy is fundamentally about four times more valuable as heat. Dr. Wicks notes that although this system is simple in principle, it requires operation ins.ide of a lawn mower type engine inside a furnace modl).le, and thus .acceptabl'e solutions to the problems of noise, vibration, engine life, equipment protection and safety. but he further notes that comparable problems exist and have been solved on other machines. The goal is to develop an acceptable system tb,at can sell for about $1000 and ~hat can cut the user's combined electric and heating bills in half dur.ing the winter months, and provide our society with the additional fuel conservation bellefits from this beter utilitzation of natural gas of less depenaence on imported oil, cleaner air and water; reduction in acid rain and less carbon dioxide buildup in the atmosphere and the resulting \greenhouse effect\ heating of the earth. Dr. Wicks also notes that this is an _American invention with a world market and an engine driven system that we should be able to manufacture in the United States and export to Japan. He has a patent pending in Japan and in various European Patent countries, along with the patents that have been allowed in the United States, Canada, and the Soviet Union. The pursuit of these wo:dd wide patents is based upon the fact that this system can provide major benefits in all countries that have cold weather and natural gas for heating purposes, and the ultimate goal is ~o have this system represent. the new efficiency standard for furnaces. Meanwhile, steps toward commercialization continue at a steady pace. Dr. Wick;s has licensed the Dhorb Company of Scotia and Hartford Manufacturing of Cobleskill, and these companies are now developing prototypes with motors contributed by General UNION COLLEGE FACUL lY COLLOQUIUM ROBERT M. ,OLBER~ Associate Professor of Biological Sciences EAVESDROPPING ON I;NSECT BftAINS THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16TH AT 4:30 P,M . COLL'EG~ ·CENTER AUDlTORI.UM COFFEE & TEA at 4:00 PM AU are welcome to attend Electric and engines contributed 1Jy Kohler Company. Dr. Wicks also notes that this subtly simple: system embodies a wide .spe~trum of engineering and te.cl:mical concepts and princilJ'les and thus can provide .excellent jnstructional opport11nities for engineering st11dents. Accordingly, three Union College engineering ~t:tJdents are now developing and testing a prototype as a Senior Project, and these efforts hav-e resulted in the design of a moctllle that successfully combines the requirements ofengine: exhaust heat recovery alld · noise reduction. SUMM:ER RESEARCH FE:LLOWSHI:P·s·· Applications are avilable for the Union College Summer research. fellowships. We nave about 40 fellowships this _summer so far ·only about . 20 stud~nts have picked up applications. You r:nust have a faculty sponsor··· · for your work. Applications may be .:picked up in Prof. Lewis' Office, Rm . 221E, Social Sciences or Prof. Tobiessen's Office, Rm 324, Science . . Center. CompletE applications are due March 1st. / Announcing . . . - New And Newly ~ein:trodQ.ced Courses In ·. · · · Sociology And Anthroprilogy 1. Anthropology tO!, \Language In Culture And Sllciety 11 This course will explore the dual role of language in culture and society·. As provi<ling the cultural. basis for apprehendi.ng and categorizing reality, and the communicative basis for the production of social identity. Topic::~; will include: the Whorfian hypothesis as iltucstrated in ethnotaxonomy. color terminology, kinshiiJ terminology and ilaming; symbolic inter~ctionism; ethnomythodol()gy;. interactional sociolingu.is:tics; ethnopoetics and narrative performance. The course will also provide ethnographic applications of these theories in the ~eas of gender, ethnicity, humor, religion and politics, Prerequisities:: Previous course work in anthropology and/or sociology, or pehriission :from instructor. Liberal Learning Category D/B - M-W-F 2:00- 3:05- Prof. T. Gordon 2, Sociology 130,. \Individualism And Commitment In American· Life'; An examination of tile causes and consequences of \individualism ·the ideology and practice of valuing and promoti:n~ individuals rather tl\.an social groups; ex:amination of relationships between ·the \autonomous self\ valued in individualism and institutions (work, religion, family, comman1tY) which historically l'e:q_llire commitment and the subordination of self to others. Pterequis:it~: Introduction to Sociol()gy or Anthropology. Libe:tal Learning Cate;goryB- M-W-F 11:40- 12:45- ?rof. D. Losek~ .3. Sociology 134, \'The Sociology. of Mental Health\ A general irltroducti:ori. to the social scientific study of mental health. Major topics include; • . theories of mental iJJ.ness;· epidemiology of mental illness; the social' experience-of being a mental , patient; contemporary issues in m_ental health. Prerequisite: Introduction t-e Sociology or ·Anthropology. · Liberal Learning Cate;gory B- Tues. & Thllis. 12:50 .. 2:30- Prof. V. Dersch 4. Sociology 52-; ••rssues in American Education\ Sod,ological, philo-sophical, and historical analyses of contemporary educational systems: the nature and purpose ofeducation, org~niz9tit>ll of schools; social psychological proc-ess of ,educaci<>n, relation of school t.o C()rnmunity and society~ current conflicts and trends of change in educ~tion. The • COUrSe Will inclUde weekly visitS. to local school diStriCtS, . , · . Tues. & Thurs. 8:5()! - 10:30 - Prof. T. Wei11er

I :I CONCORDIENSlS Fe-bruary l(i, l989 Ozone: An Environmentally. Spund· Dis·infectant For Drinking Water By KEVIN 'GARI>NER such as not pretreating the water with ,chlorine, · and The final step in the~ improving turbidity removal treatment of water for drjnking processes to ensure an absence is disinfection.. Chlorine is of organics wh·en chlorinated. typically used as. a .disinfectant These methods, hoW((ver, are and an oxidizer. Chlorine not foolproof. Recently a cost- destroys patho·gens and effective solution has been microorganisms, removes iron :becoming popular. and manganese, and controls Ozone has long been known odor and bad taste. Chlorine, :to be a powerful oxidizing however, is:dangerous to work agent. It has never been used with due to its extremely until recently because .of its corrosive nature, and the instability, transporting toxicity of its vapor. Also, difficulties, and cost. In light chlorine reacts with o~ganics to of the EPA's new legislation form trihalomethanes, a on THM's and recent research product that has been of much proving o;zone's cost- concern to the Environmental~ effectiveness, many treatment Protection. Agency late,ly. plants have. been switching Tribalomethanes (THM's) are a over to ozone. Ten years ago, suspected carcinogen and are, there were two plants in the for all practical purposes, U.S. using ozone as the impossible to remove. The primary disinfectant, today best way to Combat THrvl's is there are over thirty. disinfectant was completed in Los Angeles. The L.A. plant treats 600 'mgd · of . surface runoff from the Sierra Nevada Mountains that travels down an aqueduct to the plant. The treatment lasts thirty minutes. Four .steps are involved: omne contacting, flash mixing of coagulants, particulate agglomeration and gravity filtration. Research was done to find the best way to combat microorganisms found in the .cofd runoff from th-e moun ta in s : o z o n e 's imictivation of Giardia was 100 times faster than free chlorine's. Furthermore: ozone's benefits go beyond pathogen removal and increased filtration rates, providing longer filter runs, increased resistance to turbidity breakthrough and reduced demand for conventional coagulants like ferric chloride and cationic polytner. In addition, the plant saved $1.9 milli~n of capital asing the ozonation system, which includes the on-sight production of ozone. According to the vice president of the utility, \The impetus to use ozone has been the EPA's regulation on trihalomethanes.\ The ozone actually reduces the . amount of THM produced when chlorine is added because adding oxygen to the organics makes them more biodegradable. In both L.S. and Haworth, the level of THM's is far below present regulations, but both plants expect the regulations to become much stricter in the near future. Another advantage cited by the Hackensack company is that the floc floats to the top so that it can be skimmed. This makes maintenance much easier and makes the floc easier to deal with as compared with the compact sludge that settles out the bottom. This ability to skim the floc also eliminates the need for settli-ng basins. Though the Hackensack plant · Page 9 are: improvement of taste and color, removal of turbidity, it is a superb disinfectant, it is easier to handle than chlorine, the oxygen makes organics much more biodegradable, it greatly reduces the amoJmt of THM produced, it has been shown to remove low conc·entrations of toxic materials and, though more expensive than chlorine, it has proven to save money by reducing the amount of other chemicals needed. to avoid their pt;oduction. There In November of 1986 the - are methods to reduce the largest water treatment plant A second large water treatment plant to convert to ozone as the primary disinfectant is the Hackensack Water Company's Haworth Water Treatment Plant. is tripling its capacity, no more settling basins are needed, and the old basins will be used as conduits. The money saved on settling ba8ins wiJI pay for all of the equipment nee.ded to produce ozone. They also only need to build 12 more filters to add to the 8 presently in the plant, though tripling their treatment capacity. The method of water treatment is a refined method. Most all plants in the world treating surface water operate in a similar fashion. The process is one of removing turbidity, any microbiological organics that may exist in the supp1y, and making the water smell, taste, and look acceptable. This is done by a series of steps: coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation, filtration, and chlorination. A recent advance in the United States due to unacc~ptably high leve 1 s :f THM's has proven that an additional step of ozone contact will result in muchy greater efficiency, as well as much improved treatment results. The future of water .treatment in the United States will certainly be entwined with the ozonation process. .... ··. aq1ounts of THlM's produced, using ozone as a primary ~ LEWIS H:ENRY MORGAN .INFORMAL . . I The benefits of ozone, then, FACU.L TV COLLOQUIA The Department ·of Sociology an<l Anthropology invites you to attend a lectur~ on: Problem of the Week \A FR.E$H LOOK,._,AT A TRADITIONAL RELATIONSHIP: GRA.ND.PARE:NTS AND G:AANDCHJLOREN· ;.N THE 1980.S\ DR. VIRGINIA, DERSCH Each letter stands. for a digit, 0 th:t:\ough 9 inclusive. The same letter represents the same digit throughout the problem. Find the digits which make the problem arithmetically correct. {Contriputed by Paul J. Tobias.) Visiting Assistant Professor o·f Sociology THURSDAY, FEBRUARY· 23RD 3:.30 PM' SOCIAL SCIENCES -105 . :~efreshments '1f UU f.! fF>tt Vi:J [}D~~@ r[D fH J\ .'i'J'J a~~~) Sumn1er 1989 Student Resear~h Opportunities A unique opporhmity to gain research experieilte with a faculty mentor and work with students from other colleges and universities at · one of the following institutions: :. ; .,_ • ~·.· 1• 'I Y. • Barnard College. • f/amiltou Collf:ge • Colgate Uni1•ersi1y • Manha1tan College • Cornell University • Saint Lawrence University • Union College 10 WEEK SUI'\'lMER PROGRAM . $2,000.00 STIPEND PLUS '$500.00 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN APPLICATION OR FOR FUHTIIER DETAILS, CONTACT YOUR INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENTAtiVE: ~ ~INER ~_!-~?.::'.~~~---~---- ~--~------·--- DEADLINE, FEB. 27TH 1989 Or caH CORNELL UNIVERSITY 607-255-2710 . . ,,,., ': : :,o::,' ' ::y; ,;:;'•' ':';\> .::::'.-;ARN~~o' ~()LLECE •• ~OLGATE iJ~ivE.RS;Tv.:coRNELL UNIVERSITY . . .' HAi11CroN COllfGE .. Mi\NHATTAN GOUEGE.;ST. LAWRl;NCEUNIVERSITY.JJNJON COLLEGE .. ,_-: . .} ~ . ·, . I 'i i I I ' \ ,, t i ' : ; ,. I I I i i I I ' I I 0 F 0 U T l S I G H T U X I 0 H X F T H X Y F u ~ Con11,ratulations to Laszlo Ooroczky, who won the ten dollar priZ<\!. for Lhe third and fourth problems of the week. Solution~. §):lould b~ submiited to Lois Bing in the Mathematics Department Office betW(!en the hours of 9a.m. 11axn. and 2p.m.- \!p.m. Monday through Friday. The first correct so-lution submitted will receive the weekly ten dollar prize. Correct solutions will b€ posted on HH! bulletin board outside Dailey 106. UNr'ON COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF .BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT LEO FLEISHMAN DEPARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN \THE NEURAL BASIS OF COMMUNICATION IN ELECT.RIC FISH\ WED~ESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 198 4:40P.M. ·SOCIAL SCIENCES ROOM 112 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 DR. FLEISHMAN IS A CANDIDATE FOR A FACUL 1Y POSITION IN THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT :~ 19\''

Page 10 CONCORDlENSlS Februtlr;y 16, 1989 <!rnlt.CJlrbirnsis Founded at Union College 1877 ----- Debbie's Done· 'This year's film committee brcke tradition when they decided not to show a pornographic film last night. Co-chair, Scott Davis states that he feels obligated to provide good quality films and that one of the reasons he chose not ;to show the traciitionai 'porn flick', was because most pornographic movies are not very high quality. We app~aud the film committee's decision and admire their dedication to providing entertaining films of worth. We agree that there are more appropriate f.ilms for the campus than pornographic ones, but we feel that pornographic; films are inappropriate for more rea~ons than their general lack ofquality. lt is inconceivable that the college should choose to show a pornographic film after the court system has legally recognized that pornography promotes acts of violence against women. No fFeedom of speech argwnent can justify advocating a potential perpetrator of violence towards half of this comrnunity's members. Especially one of so little social worth. The issue of censorship is not really central to the argument of whether or not the film committee should show a pornographic film. It is idealistic and an oversimplification to argue that opposing the fi:lm being shown is censorship. We believe that pornography has a right to exist and be shown, but that we should not welcome it on our campus. While we do not wish it .to he !'censored\ we do not wish to \invite\ it onto our campus. It is not in violation of the first amendment to oppose that our money be used to financially support a busi11ess t.hat has been legally recognized as perpetrating vielence against halfof us. Nor is it in violation of L~e first amendment to request that we not all be subjected to feeling .the inevitable repercussions of the film that we all will, regardless of whether or not we actually choose to see it. Yes, we must all endure these repercussions. if we venture outside Union's .gates, but there is just no need to accept it on campus. Finally the most obvious reason that a pornographic film should not be sponsored by the film committee is its blatimt inappropriateness fora college campus. The College does not commemerate socially destructive people, nor does our library waste better-used money on literature of little worth and I ow quality. The fi.lm committee should not do so either. We commend the film committee 011 their decision and hope that future committee members will follow this President. How Symbolic Mark Haughton's feature article last week on the physical changes at Union within the past forty years (see page 6) brought up a lot of questions concerning the state of Union College today and its prospects in the future. While his article focused on the physical changes ll.t Union, the implications behind such changes reveal the. College's attitude that has evolved over the past four decades. And this attitude has made itself more evident in the Administration's decisions over the past ten years. The deterioration of the Nou Memorial is perhaps symbolic of the deterioration of the College's ability to manage college matters properly. While reference to the first Union Administration under Eliphalet Nott seems tenuous, his shrewd business sense and concern for the College's integrity should be maintained within the Administration. Aside from the intrinsic value of Eliphalct Nott's approach to college governance, Nott's Administration and the philosophy behind his methods were a part of Union College as it was meant to be. Unfortunately, r~cent Administrations have abandoned our first president. Instead, they've opted (like most college administrations across the nation) for the obvious solutions-easy, non-committal, frugal. In the process of doing so, Union has lost a part of its heritage. Would Nott be proud of what Union is today? More importantly, has Union remained true to the College's original intentions forged in 1795? One hundred and ninety three years have passed since then. With the nass;ng of time, its unevitablc that perspectives and goals get distorted and lost; however, it's time to resuscitate them. While this editorial docs not mean to advocate that the Administration take a reactionary approach to decision-making, it should bear in mind the goals of the College. . Union College has a unique history, part of which was its 'self- determination.' Let's preserve it. It's a valuable asset and a worthwhile touchstone. The College's entity is at stake. Apology For Sexist Article I am writing this editorial on Thursday aftcrrtoon as a personal reaction to an article I have just read and not on Tuesday evening in response to letters to the editor which I expect, and frankly hope Concordiensis will receive. I am referrin,g to the feature article that ran in the February 9 issue, \Winter Blues\. I found the article, as I'm sure did others, sexist and offensive. I believe that the m,1thor intended to be merely humorous, but it was the responsibility of the newspaper to have shown better judgement and opted not to run the article as written. I expect ffilll_IY readers. will fail to see the harm in the article and will think that this editorial is an overreaction, but I also think th~t some readets will be rightly angry and offended by the !lflicle. To those of you who were offended, I and my co-editor apologize and offer our assurance that we will make more of an effort to carefullyread and edit submitted articles. And to those of you who believe this is an overreaction, I <Jffer for considerati<Jn the thought that h11tnor is often prejudice's most insidious form as .any reaction other than laughter will be considered an 'overreaction'~ !LETTERS Mechanical Engineers Compromise To the Editers; The purpose t:>f this letter is to make the Union College community awa.re ()f an unfortunate compromise that was recently made in the Mechanical Engineering depart~ ment regarding requirements for graduation - requirements that will not only affect the classes of 1990 and beyond, bat also today's senior class. In· a \crash\ meeting of all the mechanical engineers in the senior class last Thursday, February 9, Professor MiliUo, the chairman of the depar-tment, dropped a bombshell. He notified all those present that the requirements for those seniors planning on graduating in June of this year were being changed. After advisillg his students for the past few terms to look toward completing the already established curriculum of that day, Professor Milillo took it upon himself to \preserve the integrity of the department\ by adding courses LETTERS TO THE' EDITOR DO NOT_ NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBlE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORD I EN SIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEE;DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORD lENS IS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Clearance Sale 1988 Yearbook Final Sale! Reduced price of $15.00 for last year's edition. Get them in CC 408 with Mrs. Marra. Cash or check, but hurry while supplies last. . put up a road block. Is this . to Olll' cumcul~~· · . · · · ·integrity? 1s this yet another Professor Mthllo, I ask you · \lesson in Hfe\ that we have publicly how you can set the been bombarded with in the d~partment's integrity, 'b~fore · past four years? .I, for one, do .that of the College. Isn t 1t the not· plan on following your element of CHOICE mat sets example . 0 f one voice when I Unio? apart fro~ the RPI's an~ am \up against a we~ll,\ ~s yo:.-.: MIT s · of this count~y. rationalizedtouson Thursday. Throughout our years at Umon I understand that our we have leamedrnorethanjust \contract\ with the ME technical jargon ~ We haVt> department was no.i binding. - heard our professors speak ·of our curriculum can be legally \engineering ethics\ and changed at any point in time. I \principles\ an~ \int~grity.\ I use an analogous situation to ~md the chan~e m pt>l>tcy to be furlther define my position: m blatan~ d1sregard for the Someday l wHl c0ntract to aforementiOned codes, yet we build a house. I select the will still take these codes with builder and the model, an<i also us to our. many diffe~ent agree to. a co~t. The· builder workplaces m J.une. We mtgb.t knows more about construction even hold these beliefs a little· and home design ti)an myself closer to our hearts now that and he comes up with some we've seen what happens when new ideas as he is · in the a system breaks down. . process of building my hom~. I am not saying that the· He come.s to me and we Mechanical Engineering De- togeth.er discuss possibl'e partmen t does not need to changes to what I thought I had change or that you have not purchased. Together we make :taken great strides in a decision. It mightd>st me a implementing tremendous little more, or perhaps he will policy and faculty changes. I learn from the experience and commend you for the steps the take his ideas on to the next Department has taken under house he builds. He cannot your. direction and sincerely ethically tell me thatrhe is the -hope the ·metamorphosis only_voice. We are adults in a continues until both the business situation and we American Board of En~eering should act accordingly. and Technology (ABET) and· I think you have great ideas Union are satisfied with the for a department with a lot of program. My ct:>ncern is in potential. But your dream has your decision to .wait until we become my nightmare as the were 3 weeks away_ from pre- element of CHOICE has left registering for classes you had my Union College exp.erience helped us program into our once and for all. curriculum, and only 15 Respectfully and OPENLY, academic weeks away from our · · Sheila M. Hennigan, futures when you decided to Class of 1989

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS February 16, 1989 (llDtlfllrbirnsis Founded at Union College 1877 ---- Debbie's Done This year's film committee broke tradition when they decided not to show a pornographic film last night. Co-chair, Scott Davis states that he feels obligated to provide good qNatlily films and titat one of the reasons he chose not to show the traditional 'porn flick' was because most pornographic movies arc not very high quality. We applaud the film. committee's decision and admire their dedication to providing entertaining films of worth. We agree that there arc more appropriate films for the campus than pornographic ones, but we feel that pornographic films arc inappropriate for more reasons than their general lack of quality. It is inconceivable that the college should choose to show a pornographic film after the court system has legally recognized that pornography promotes acL<> of violence against women. No freedom of speech argwncnt can justify advocating a potential perpetrator of violence towards half of this community's members. Especially one of so little o,ocial worth. The issue of cer,sorship 1s not really central to the argument of whether or not the film committee should show a pornographic film. It i~ idealistic and an oversimplification to argue that opposing the film hcing shown is censorship. We believe that pornography has a right to exist and he shown, but that we should not welcome it on our campus. Whik we do not wish it to he \censored\, we do not wish to \invite\ it onto our campus. It is not in violation of the first amendment to oppose that our money he used to financially support a business that has been legally recognized as perpetrating violence against half of us. Nor is it in violation of t!-Ic first amendment to request that we not all he suhjl·ctcd to feeling the inevitable repercussions of the film that we all will, regardless of whether or not we actually choose to sec it. Yes, we mu-;t all endure these repercussions, if we venture outside Un.ion's gates, hut there is just no need to accept it on campus. Finally the most obvious reason that a pornographic film sh.ould not he sponsored by the film committee is its blatant inappropriateness for a college campus. The College docs not commemerate socially destructive people, nor docs our library waste better-used money on literature of little worth and low quality. The film committee should not dG so either. We commend the film committee on their decision and hope that future committee members will follow this President. How Symbolic Mark Haughton's feature article last week on the physical changes at Union within the past forty years (sec page 6) brought up a lot of questions concerning the state of Union College today and its prospects in the future. While his article focused on the physical changes at Union, the imolications behind such changes reveal the College's attitude that has t'V('Jlvcd over the past four decades. And this attitude has made itself more evident in the Administration's decisions over the past ten years. The deterioration of the Non Memorial is perhaps symbolil: of the d.-terioration of the College's ability to manage college matters properly. While reference to the first Union Administration under Eliph.alet Nott ~L't'rns tenuous, his shrewd business sense and concern for the College's inll'grity should be maintained within the Administration. Aside from tt;e intrinsil· value of Eliphalet Nott's approach to college governance, Nons Administration and the philosophy behind his methods were a part of Union College as it wa~ meant to be. Unfortunately, recent Administrations have abandoned our first president. Instead, they've opted (like most college administrations across the nation) for the obvious solutions--easy, non-committal, frugal. In the process of doing so, Union has lost a part of its heritage. Would Nott be proud of what Union is today? More importantly, has Union remained true to the College's original intentions forged in 1795? One hundred and ninety three years have passed since then. With the n:tssing of time, its unevitable that perspectives and goals get distorted and lost; however, it's time to resuscitate !hem. While this editorial docs not mean to advocate that the Administration take a reactionary approach to decision-making, it should bear in mind the goals of the College. Union College has a unique history, part of which was its 'self- determination.' Let's preserve it. It's a valuable asset and a worthwhile touchstone. The College's entity is at stake. Apology For Sexist Article I am writing this editorial on Thursday afternoon as a personal reaction to an article I have just read and not on Tuesday evening in response to letters to the editor which I expect, and frankly hope Concordiensis will receive. I am referring to the feature article that ran in the February 9. issue, \Winter Rlucs\. I found the article, as I'm sure did others, sex1st and dfcnsive. I believe that the author intended to be merely humorous, but it was the responsibility of the newspaper to have shoVIn better judgement and opted not to run the article as written. I ~xpect mar:y readen will fail to see the harm in the article and w1ll thmk that this editorial is an overreaction, but I also think that some readers will be rightly angry and offended by the article. To those of you who were offended, I and my co-editor apologi.le and offer our a..~surance that we will make more of an effort to carefully read and edit submitted articles. And to those of you who believe this is an overreaction, I offer for consideration the thought that humor is often prejudice's most insidious fonn as any reaction other than laughter will he considered an 'overreaction'. jLETTERS Mechanical Engineers Compromise To the Editors, The purpose of this letter is to make the Union College community aware of an un.fortunate compromise that was recently made in the Mechanical Engineerin~ depart- ment regarding requi,reincnts for graduation - requirements that will not o11.ly affect the classes of 1990 and beyond, but also today's se11ior class. In a '!crash\ meeting of all the mechanical engineers in the senior class last Thursday, February 9, Professor Milillo, the chairman of the department, dropped a bombshell. He notified all those present that the requirements for those seniors planning on graduating in June of this year were being changed. After advising his students for the past few terms to look toward completing the already established curriculum of that day, Professor Milillo took it upon llimself to \preserve the integrity of the department\ by adding courses lETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED. AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEE;DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORD! ENS IS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRE;D WORDS W'LLNOT BE ACCEPTED. Clearance Sale 1988 Yearbook Final Sale! Reduced price of $1 5.00 for last year's edition. Get them in CC 408 with Mrs. Marra. Cash or check, but hurry while supplies last. to our curriculum. Prcfessor MiHllo, I ask you publicly how you can set the department's integrity before that \Jf the College. Isn't it the element of CHOICE that sets Union apart from the RPI's and MIT's of this country? Throl!lghout our years at Union we have learned more tfuaR just tecl:mical jargon - we have heard <Jur professors speak of \engineering ethics\ and \prihciplcs\ and \intcgrhy.\ I find the change in policy to be in blatant disregard for the aforcinentioned codes, yet we will stil:l take these codes with us Lo our many different workplaces in J tmc. We rnight even h<Jld ~hesc beliefs a little closer to our hearts now that we've see11 what happens when a syste.m breaks down. I am not saying that the Mechanical Engineering De- partment does not need to change or that you have not taken great strides in implementing tremendous policy and faculty changes. I commend you for the steps the Department has taken under your direction and sincerely hope the . metamorphosis continues until both the American Board of Engineering and Techllology (ABET) and Union are satisfied with the program. My concern is in your clecision to wait until we were 3 weeks away from pre- registering for classes you had helped us program into our curriculum, and only 15 academjc weeks away from our futures when you decided to put up a road \block. Is thi,s integrity? Is this yet another \lesson ifl life\ that we have been bombarded with in the past four years? I, for one, do not plan on following your examp!le of one voice wfucn I am \up against a waH,\ as you rationalized to us on Thursday. I understand that our \contract\ with the ME department was not b~nding - our curriculum can be legally changed at any point in time. I use an analqgous situation to fudther define my position: Someday I wiH contract to build a house. I sckct tfuc builder and the model, and also agree to a cost. The builder knows more about construction and home design than myself and he comes ~p with some new ideas as he is in the process of building my home. He comes to me and we together discuss possible changes to what I thought I had purchased. Together we make a decision. It might cost me a little more, or perhaps he will learn from the experience and take his ideas on to the next house he builds. He cannot ethically tell me that· he is the only voice. We are adults in a business situation and we should act accordingly. I think you have great ideas for a department with a lot of potential. But your dream has become my nightmare as the element of CHOICE has left my Union College experience once and for all. Respectfully and OPENLY, Sheila M. Hennigan, Class of 1989 i I· I I j 'I I I ! I {

'·\ I • ' · ,CONCORDIENSJ.S February 16; 19:89 Page 11 LETTERS College reserves Right to Change Curriculum Races Should Work to Mend Rifts To the Editors: I would like to inform. students in the Union College Community that the · administration has die legal right t<> change the curriculum at any time accordh'Ig to the following statement:. '\The College res~rves the right to make changes in its course afferings, degree requirements, regulations ~d procedJ¥es, and fees and expenses as· educational and fina11cial ' . ' . considerations .requJl'e.\ Incoming freshmen are under the impression that: their cw::ricnlurn cannot be changed during their four years at Uiiion . . College. On. Thursday; of last week, fifteen weeks before graduation, Mechailtcal - Engineering seniors were informt~d that their diploma would not be signed unless they agreed to take ex:tra, specified courses. While some people will only be required to take three course, otbers will be taking four or five, and still others will not be allowed to graduate in March. Many of the · people that will be taking three courses next term~ currently only need one or two courses to graduate. According to Professor MilHlo. Chairman .of the department, this course of action is necessary in o:rder to .save Jhe integrity of the Mechanical Engineering department. The American Board of .Engi11eering and Technology (ABET) came to Union this fall and talked with professors and students. Their con¢1usion was that the department needed .to make changes or they would not allow the class of 1991 to graduate accredited. In order to appease ABETl Professor Milillo is ·compromising the standards of Union and what a Union education is all about. I chose Union because it offered me the chance to gain a strong technical background while remaining a well-rounded individual. Future Mechanical Engineers will irot have the opportunity te go on a term abroad, and will have limited choices when deciding their schedUles. While I agree that· the program needs changes, some of which have already been implemented, is it necessary to do something this ·drastic one term before our graduation? We, as students, paid a lot of money and spent.•Our first three years sitting in classes where the professors did not care and did not know how to teach. The recent turnover in professors will offer future Meehanicat Engilleers the best ,classroom 'instruction possible and a very strong engineering program. The class of 1989 has paid enough al!eady, yet now we are still paying. So read your course catalog and be aware of the possibility that this could happen to you. I strongly suggest that unc}erclass Mechanical Engineers talk to your advisors since this is going to directly affect your future ~t Union College and beyond. Respectfully Submitted, Patrice A. Prusko Class of 1989 To the Editor: I was very disturbed in reading an article praising Louis Farrakhan as a prominent leader of the black community. We do not doubt the great oratorical ability of Mr. Farrakhan. However, it should be noted that Mr. Farrakhan has used this .gift to inflame the Black community against various groups, particularly Jews. Many men in history have had outstanding oratorical abHity and it should be pointed out that a vast number of them became very dangerous when such oratorical power was transformed into political power. M.E. Dept. Reminded of Obligation to Students ofPast, Present and Future We do not see anything wrong with the authors relating the sttong points of Mr. Farrakhan, but in erder to give a full picture of the preacher, one must point out his inflammatory ancl prejudicial viewpoints. There is nothing wrong with instilling pride in one's people and making them aware of their heritage. However, it is another thing to downtrod upon another people. His hatred of the Jews is blatant. Anyone who says .that \Judaism is a gutter religion,\ can be easily classified as a ·1icious Jew hater. Not only is To the Editors: and seniors will graguate from Union with an accredited degree Last Thursday the senior and the only . problems will Mecha11ical Engineers were begin with the class of 199 ~· faced with a new set of Thedepartmenthas.added these graduation requirements. For changes as a good will type some of us these requirements gesture so that when the do not cause much llardship but accreditation team comes back to others there are problems of and reviews ~he department planned graduation in March, again,\ it will appear as though taking four or five engineering it were concerned with the courses in the spring and · curriculum and that we want to possibly not being able to ·change. complete the new curricul11m, As a senior mechanical thus failing to graduate. engineer who transferred into The changes were brought on Union at the beginning of my by an accrediatation board tllat junior year, I am concerned evaluated the Mechanical about the possibility of future Engineering department in the transfers being able to graduate fall. The American Board of · within two years. The present Engineerina .find Technology, Co~rnunity College system also known as ABET, sent a does ·not provide the necessary team of investigators who courses that are required under talked to the students, loo1ced the new proposal; students wllo over transcripts, reviewed plan on transferring in next course material and evaluated year are in· for a big surprise. the teaching abilities of the The new outline cuts out many . faculty. of the choices that were All engineers who plan on available to us before by b~coming registered Profes- restricting our electives and sional Engineers must gradlJate requiring more design oriented from an accredited institution. classes. Also, some jobs require that Upon my graduation from your d~gree be accredited. My Hudson Valley Comm:unity undersianding is that all juniors College I was accepted into ''Mouthitlg Off': An Apology To the Editors: .I would like to clarify a statement that I made ill rny last published edition of MOUTHING OFF and clear the air of all controversy. In my February 2, 1989 article, I n:sed po()r Judgment in my explanation of two NCAA proposit~ons. . In your last issue, Larry Lowe and Joseph Voyticky pointed out my poorly stated remark in a letter. I tegl'et making such a broad statement about minorities, and regJet any offense taken because of the poor wmdiilg. . My intended point was that · Propositions 42 and 48 will affect some minorities more than whites, if for no other :reasen than tile racial bias .of the SATs. I in no way intended to imply that all minorities had bad grades and lowSAT'scores. Again, I am sorry, and would like to thank Mr. Lowe and Mr. Voyticky for pointing out my error in judgment. Respectfully; Andrew F. Braver • ? four other engineering schools and I chose to come to Union because of the liberal learning based curricuh.1m that the school provided. I did not want to become a 100% theoretical engineer who only could crank out numbers. Union provided the chance to become a well roundee:t_~ngineer and I have found that many companies interviewing on campus look highly upon that cllaracteristic. I am very grateful to Union for providing me the chance to get a .quality degree. However, I feel that the department is compromising its standards as well as the school's by giving us this ultimatum with only fifteen weeks of classes left. The obligation of this college is to the students of the pa.St, present and future. I can appreciate the department's position, but they must understand the situation that the students are in and show some flexibility, in order to provide a rational deci:;ion that will benefit all involved parties. '. Gene Terwilliger, Class of 1989 28 APRIL 1989 The Ultimate Celebration Senior Spring Ball une Soiree a Souvenir this comment ridiculous, bul il poses a potential rift between the Jewish and Black communities. A relationship that we feel is viral. This is upsetting, particularly to Jews because for many years, Jews and Blacks have always fought together for equal tights and respect. Both groups have been discriminated against by the vast majority of the country and Jews were very infll'Jential in the struggle for civil rights. The murder of two J cws and one Black in Mississippi in 1964 tcstifws to the cooperation between the two groups. However, Mr. Farrakhan chooses to ignore these historical facls and instead is using the Jews as a scapegoat, blaming them for the plight of the Black community in Chicago. We feel that both Blacks and Jews must work together to help all minorities who arc discriminated. However, it is difficult to work with so-called leaders who arc anti-Semitic. Let the Blacks and the Jews work· harder to mend the rift that has been created by racist individuals such as Louis Farrakhan. Respectfully yours, Robert Goldman '89 Robert Wax man '89 THE ECONOMICS CLUB will be sponsoring a lecture given by PETER CATALANO Assistant to the NYS Public Service Commission Feb. 16 from 4 to 5 p.m. Mr. Catalano advises the PSC in settling the rates and on other major issues. In SS103 THE ECONOMICS CLUB will be sponsoring a lunch table on Thursdays Feb. 9 - March 9 11 :30 - 12:30 in CC 302 ' All are welcome to come meet the club and the department faculty.

t ) CONCORDIENSIS February 16, 1989 Page 11 LETTERS College reserves Right to Change Curriculum Races Should Work to Mend Rifts To the Editors: I would like to inform students in the Union College Community taat the administration bas the legal right to change the curriculum at any time according to the following statement: \The College reserves the right to make changes in i~ts course offerings, degree JJequiJrements, regulations and procedures, and fees and ex.penses as educational and financial considerations require.\ incoming freshmen are under the impression that their curriculum cannot be changed during their fow yea-s at Union College. On Thursday, of last week, fifteen weeks before graduation, Mechanical Engineering seniors were informed that their diploma would not be signed unless they agreed to take extra, specified courses. While some people will only be required to take three course, others will be taking four or fi-ve, and still others will not be dlowed to graduate in March. Many of the people that will be taking three courses next term, currently only need one or two courses to graduate. According to Professor Milillo. Chairman of the department, this col!lrse of action is necessary in order to save the integrity of the Mechanical Engineering department. The American Board of Engineering and Technology (ABET) came .to Union this fall and talked with professors and students. Their conclusion was that the department needed to make changes or they would not allow the class of 1991 to graduate accredited. In order to appease ABET, Professor Mi:lillo is compromising the standards of Union and what a Union education is all about. I chose Union because it offered me the chance to gain a strong technical background while remaining a well-rounded individual. Future Mechanical Engineers will not have the opportunity to go on a term abroad, and will have limited choices when deciding their schedules. While I agree that the program needs changes, some of which have already been implemented, is it Hecessary to do something this drastic one term before our graduation? We, as students, paid a lot of money aJiJ.d spent our first tluee years sitting in classes where the professors did not care and did not know how to teach. The recent turnover in professors will offer fu.ture MechaHical Engineers the best class:wom ·instruction possible and a very strong engiNeering program. The class of 1989' has paid enough already, yet now we are still paying. So read your course catalog and be aware of the possibility that this could happen to you. I strongly suggest that underclass Mecfl.anical Engineers talk to your advisors since this is going to directly affect your future at Union College and beyond. Respectfully Submitted, Patrice A. Prusko Class of 1989 To the Editor: I was very disturbed in reading an article praising Louis Farrakhan as a prominent leader of the black community. We do not doubt the great oratorical ability of Mr. Farrakhan. However, it should be noted that Mr. Farrakhan has wsed this gift to inflame the Black community against various groups, particularly Jew:;. Many men in history have had outstanding oratorical abHity aHd it should be pointed out that a vast number of them became very dangerous when such oratorical power was transformed into political power. M.E. Dept. Reminded of Obligation to Students of Past, Present and Future We do not see anything wrong with the authors relating the strong points of Mr. Farrakhan, but in order to give a full picture of the preacher, one must point out his inflammatory and preju:dicial viewpoints. There is nothing wrong with instilling pride in one's people aHd making them aware of their heritage. However, it is another thing to downtrod upon another people. His hatred of the Jews is blatant. Anyone who says that \Judaism is a gutter religion,\ can be easily classified as a ·;icious Jew hater. Not only is To the Editors: Last Thursday the senior Mechanical Engineers were faced with a new set of graduation requirements. For some of us these requirements do not cause much hardship but to others there are problems of planned graduatio11 in March, taking four or five engineering courses in the spring and possibly not beiag able to complete the new curriculum, thus failing to graduate. The changes were brought on by an accrediatatio11 board that evaluated the Mechanical Engineering department in the fall. The American Board of Engineering and Technology, also known as ABET, sent a team of investigators who talked to the studeilts, looked over transcripts, reviewed course material and evaluated the teaching abilities of the faculty. All engineers who plan on becoming registered Profes- sional Engineers must graduate from an accredited i11stitution. Also, some jobs req uirc that your degree be accredited. My understanding is that all juniors and seniors will graduate from Union with an accredited degree and the only problems will begin with the class of 1991. The department has added these changes as a good will type gesture so that when the accreditation team comes back and reviews the department again, it will appear as though it were concerned with the curriculum and that we want to change. As a senior mechanical engineer who transferred into Union at the beginning of my junior year, I am concerned about the possibility of future transfers being able to graduate within two years. The present Community College system does not provide the necessary courses that are required under the new proposal; students wr.o plan on transferring in next year are in for a big surprise. The new outline cuts out many of the choices that were available to us before by restricting our electives and requiring more design oriented classes. Upon my graduation from Hudson Valley Community College I was accepted into \Mouthing Off': An Apology To the Editors: I would like to clarify a statement that I made in my last published edition of MOUTHING OFF and clear the air of all contmversy. In my February 2, 1989 article, I used poor judginent in my explanation of two NCAA propositions. In your last issue, Larry Lowe and Josepil Voyticky pointed out my poorly stated remark in a letter. I regret making such a broad statement about minorities, and regret any offense taken because of the poor wording. My intended point was that Propositions 42 and 48 will affect some minorities more than whites, if for no other reason than the racial bias of the SA Ts. I in no way intended to imply that all minorities had bad grades and low SAT scores. Again, I am sorry, and would like to thank Mr. Lowe and Mr. Voyticky for pointing out my error in judgment. Respectfully, Andrew F. Braver four other engineering schools and I chose to come to U11ion because of the liberal learning based curriculum that the school provided. I did not want to become a 100% theoretical engineer who only could crank out numbers. Union provided the chance to become a well rounded engineer and I llave found that many compailies interviewing on campus look highly upon that characteristic. I am very grateful to Union for providing me the chance to get a quality degree. However, I feel that the department is compromising its standards as well as the school's by giving us this ultimatum with only fifteen weeks of classes left. The obligation of this college is to the students of the past, present and future. I can appreciate the department's position, but they must understand the situation that the students arc in and show some flexibility, in order to provide a rational decision that will benefit all involved parties. Gene Terwilliger, Class of 1989 28 APRIL 1989 The Ultimate Celebration Senior Spring Ball une Soiree a Souvenir this comment ridiculous, but il poses a potential rift between the Jewish and Black communities. A relationship that we fcc[ is vital. This is 1:1psetting, particularly to Jews because for many years, Jews and Blacks have always fm1ght together for equal rights and respect. Both groups have been discriminated against by the vast majority of the country aHd Jews were very influeHtial in the struggle for civil rights. The murder of two Jews and one Black in Mississippi in 1964 testifies w the cooperation betweeH the two groups. However, Mr. Farrakhan chooses to ignore these historical facts and instead is using the Jews as a scapegoat, blaming them for the plight of the Black community in Chicago. We feel that both Blacks and Jews must work together to help all minorities who arc discriminated. Hnwevcr, it is difficult to work with so-cal led leaders who arc anti-Semitic. Let the Blacks and the Jews work harder to rneml the rift that has been created hy racist individuals such as Louis Farrakhan. Respectfully yours, Robert Goldman ·~9 Robert Waxman ·~9 THE ECONOMICS CLUB will be sponsoring a lecture given by PETER CATALANO Assistant to the NYS Public Service Commission Feb. 16 from 4 to 5 p.m. Mr. Catalano advises the PSC in settling the rates and on other major issues. In SS1 03 THE ECONOMICS CLUB will be sponsoring a lunch table on Thursdays Feb. 9 - March 9 11 :30 - 12:30 in CC 302 All are welcome to come meet the club and the department faculty.

I FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE .·.·;·;·.,; I W · · · t r Term 1989· ·.·;·;·;·=· tm . · ln e · .. · :=m ·.·.·.····· . .., .. ·,·,·, ::::::::;:; :;:;:;:;:;: • • • • • • ·-· .. ! • ~~mt1~ IJVIPORTAl''~Pf: This exam schedule is primruily for regulill', \day\ undergraduate courses. , ,PHL-017-01 -Sex & So.ciety ~ R. ~aker ~ lillMN 019 . ... . ~m~m~~~ ::::::::::: A hed 1 c G d t ·d·· Conti'n· u1'ng Studies courses w.1'l1 be announced and PHY -013-04. - Introducuo.n to Physics II- A. An.derson NW.S E 114 . . ::::::::::: · · ·· · · separate sc u e 10 r ra ua e an ' · · 042 0 G Id f M. d Ph · R. M h' BUTR 109 · .... :;:;:;:;:;: d · \S · 51 52\ urses should be alert for the announcement of the exam PHY- ·. - . 1 - reat eas o o ern · ystcs - . aga · lZ - • . · ·. ;:;:;:;:;:; :;:;:;:;:;; s~u ents m ecuon or co · PHY -046-01 -Space Technology- D. Peak- STZH 106 ::::::::::; ·.·.·.·.·.· tune for those courses. · PHY l·Ob 01 E · d· d' I tr · p· h · b S M·al· 1 _: NW. SE 112 .·.·.·;···· ;:;:;:;:;:; c·· fli · ·· · · h ld be reported to Mrs Adey in the Office of the Registrar - ·. - · . - · xten e .... n · o to ys1cs- . - . · eiU - . . :;:;:::;:;:. ::::::::::: . on cts m exammations s ou · · · PSC-011-03 -Contemporary American Politics- T. Holbrook~ SSCI 103 ::::::::::: ::::::::::: not later than March 3rd, 1989. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . ::::::::::: :;:;:;:;:;: E · · ti ·n b held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the PSY -030-01 - Personalt~y - R. j'Jy~egger ~ PYCH 113 . . . . . ;:;:;:;:::i ::::::::::: b x=na. 0 ~ wt d · e · · ·· _ SOC-010-01 -IntroduCtion to SociOlogy- V, Dersch ... SSCI 112 :1;i:;:;:;: .·.··•···•• ARu TS gsArto Be u.sledi. NWSE- North Wing, S/E Center SPN-010-01 -Basic Spanish I- P. Moyano- HUMN 110 ··········· - tsu1ng .. .. . BAIL _ Baile Hall PYCH ., Ps!ch:ol?gy Bull~I~g _ .· y . . ll SSCI- Soci~Sc1enceBuildmg WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15 - 4:30•6:.30 P.M. _ =- ~~~:r;:ge~BuildinJ! STZH - Stemlliletz Hall PHY -120-01 - Astronomy and Astrophysics - R. Alpher- STZH 106 THU~SDAY, MARCH 16 • 3:J0-10:JO A.M. TUESDAY, MARCH 14 • 6:30·10;30 A.M. BI0-023-01- Cell Biology- F, Lambert/ G. Smith- BAIL 207 BI0-154-01- Developmental Embryology- B. Boyer- NWSE 116 ANT-101-01- Cultures of the Pacific- T. Gordon- PYCH 113 CER-128-01- Structural Analysis ... M. Mafi- BU'rR 109 ... CER-015-01 -Civil Eng Computer Programming - Y. K. Lee- BU1R 106 CHM-012-01 -Fundamental Chemistry II- D. Hayes - BUTR 204 CER-129-01- Comp Aided Structl Dsgn & Analysis- M. Mafi- BUTR 109 CHM-012-'02- Fundamenntal Chemistry II- S. Hayes- BUTR 204 CSC-040-01- Machine & Assembly Language- F. Federighi\ STZH 106 CHM-012-03- FUndamental Chemistry II- T. Werner- BUTR 204 CSC-118-01 -Logical Dsgn of Digital Comp -C. Traver - NWSJE 116 CHM-012-04 - Fundamenntal Chemistry II~ D. Hayes- BUTR 204 EC0-012-04- Introduction to Economics -B. Reynolds- SSCI 012 . EC0-012-02 -Introduction to Eccmomics - L. Cavalluzzo - SSCl 104 EC0-039-01 - Public Finance- T. McCarty- SS 103 , EC0-036~01 -Financial Markets -B. Lewis - SSCl 010 EC0-042-02 - Macroeconomic Theory & Policy - E. Motahar - SSCI 104 EC0-054-0I - Law & Economics - L. McCarthy \' STZH 106 ........ EC0-129-01- Modeling & Sim ofEco Policies- H. Fried.- SSCI 112 EER-124-01- Intro to Probabilistic Systems- E. Craig- NWSE 112 ...... ;:;:;:;:;::: EER~ 118\'01 ~·Logical Dsgn of Digital Comp- C. Traver- NWSE 116 EGL-022-01 M Major American Authors .. B. MacDonald- HUMN 019 ;~:;:::::: ;:;:;:;:;:;: EGL-077-01- Contemporary American Novel- B. Wineapple- HUMN 112 ESC~OI0-02- Mechanics I- P. Weiss- ButR I06 ;!;:;:;:;:: ESC-033-01 - Fluid Systems Analysis - C. S. Reddy - NWSE 222 ESC-020-01 - Mechanics II- D. Bunk·- NWSE 210 FRN-146-01 -Third World Francophone Lit- R. Merini- HUMN 014 ESC-026-01 - Thermodynnamics- W. Aubrey- NWSE 222 GE0 .. 050-01 -Environmental Geology - G. Shaw- Bi.riR 204 · • FRN-136-01 - Survey of French Literature I- C. Laparra- HUMN 116 GER-136-01- EarlyTwentieth-Cen German Lit- s. Kellenter- HUMN 113 GERMOl0-01- Basic German I- A. Warde ~HUMN no GER-144-01- Special Topic In 20th Century- S. Kelleater- HUMN 113 GER-121-01- Intermediate German II -D. Lund- Old Chapel, 3rdFloor HST-015-01- America: Colonies to Nation\' R. Reed- NWSE 114 HST-013-01- History of U.S .. To Civil War-T. Meade -·ssci 103 HST -022-01- Civil War and Req:mstruction- F. Dudden- HUMN 114 HST-026-01- United States in World Arenna- M.Jonas- HUMN 117 · LAT..:143-01- Roman Drama ... C. Soruin- HUMN 213 . _ HS1'..:049-0l- Europe Between Two Wars- E. Hansen- SSCI 016 , MTil-060~01 -Topics in Mathematical Pol Sci- A. Taylor- BAIL 100 · LAT-011-01 .~Principles of Latin II- J. Marincola .. HUM:N 112 PHL .. 32B-01 - Modem Philo:Leibniz-Kant- J. Ludwig - I1UMN 115 M1H·Ol8·01. • Intro to LogiC. and Set theory .. W. Zwicker - BAIL ~05 PSC-023-01 - Topics in Mathematical Pol Sci • A. Taylor· BAIL 100 MTH-028--01 -Probability - K. Rosenthal- BAIL 201 PSY~04~01 ~Introduction to Psychobiology- C. Weisse- PYCH 102 MTH-127-01- Numerical Analysis- W. Fairchild- BAll. 203 STA-11().;01- Intro to Statistical Methods I- J. Lambrinos BAIL 203 MTH-148-0l- Advanced Calculus II- K. Zimmermann- SSCI 105 - ' - . . PHL-020~01 - Classical Logic - s. Kaminsky - HUMN 115 TUESDAY, MARCH 14 • 2:,00•4:00 P.M. PHY-013--02-lntroductiontOPhysicsii-K.Mead-NWSE114 ACC-010..:()1 -Financial Accounting I- J. Lippitt- BAIL 207 . 1 PSC-012-01 - Contemp Intemational Politics- C. Brown- SSCI U2 BI0-011-01 - Topics in Contemporary Biology - K. Williams - BAIL 201 PSG·045-01 - Chinese POlitical Behavior - D. Thurston - SS'CI 110 BI0~062-01 -World Agriculture- C. George/ P. Tobiessen- BAIL 205' PSY-010-01 -A First Course in Psychology- D. Morier- PYCH 113 BI0-144-01 -Cytology .. G. Smith- BAIL 203 PSY-020-01 -Statistical Methods in Psycliol- K. DeBono- PYCH 213 BI0-162-01. - Intro to Neurobiology - F. Lambert/ R. Olberg - :NWSJ~ 222 PSY -050-01 - Educational Psychology ,. L. Stanhope - PYCH 102 CER-160-01 -Transportation Engineering· Y . .K. Lee- BUTR 104 · RUS-121-01 -Intermediate Russian -II- S. Hash- HUMN 014 ·-EC0;-012-03- Introduction to Economics- E. Mociihar -.·SSCI 012, · SOC-163-01 - Hist of Sociological thought-s. Zehr- SSCI 012 EC0-020-02 - Intro to Statisl:ical Analysis - H. Fried ~ SSCI 103 • SPN -011-01 - Basic Spanish ii- C. Qualtere - HUMN 114 EER-148-01-l)igital CircuitS- E. Hassib- NWSE 116 I ', EGL-035-01- Watin Modem Times- J. McCord- HUMN 112 THURSDAY, MARCH 16 .. 2:00-4:00 P.M. EGL-069~01 -Modem British Fiction- H. Marten - HUMN115 ARS-040-01 - Introductionto Music - H.A. Wilson- ARTS 215 ESC-Oi5-0i -Numerical Methods and Fortran - L. Almstead- BU'IR 1109 I BI0-018-01 -Introduction to Biology II- M. Frohlich/ w: Roth - BtJTR :?04 ESC~Ol8-01- Intro To Digital Computers- C. Traver- BUTR 106 BIQ•l34-01- Population Biology .. J. boyer- BAIL2Q5 GE0-031-01..- Mineralogy- K. Hollocher- BUTR 202 CHM..:040~0l- Quantitative Chemistry- R. Schaefer- BAIL 104 yRI(-137-0J ~Greek Or~tory -,C. Sol¥~- HqM,N 2~.~ , . , . . . ~,, CHM-162-01 - ~olymer Chemistry I -J .• Anderson .. BAIL 100 ttST-014 .. 01- Hist of U.S, Sine~ Civil War,. F/Dudden- SSCI 1104 CLS-025~01- History ofR.ome\' J. Martncola- HUM:N 019 LLR-051.:01- NucleariWeaports & Atms Control- w. M~n -!HJTR 204 tsc-o11-oi - Prognuummg for ~oc SCiences·- J. Qstleberry -·sTZB: 106 :;:;:;:;:;:; MTH-101-Ql - Advannced Calculus for Engrs - S. Perera- BAIL 100 BGL-020-01 - Major English Authors II- A. Frazier~ HUMN 117 :~:~:~:~;~; :::::::::::: PHY-134-01 -Physical Optics- C. Jones- NWSE 303 \ EGL-027.,01- Comedy- P. Heinegg- HUMN 115 . :;:;:;:;:;: ~;~:l:;:l:~; · PSC-064-()1 - Congressional Politics - C. Tidmarch - SSCI 112 EGL-033-01 - Women in lhP. RP-n~i~~~ni\P..- R ~tPvPncnn - lll ThAN 11 L1 ~·~·'•!···· _._._ .. _._·~· \l:j ~ ~ 1'1> - N ~ c ·~ ~·· ~ .~ ..... ~ -~ ~ ·\:::l ~ t:::' \'t ;:: !.':) ~ ..... $1' ..... :1 \Qi ·Oo \\

.. - ... _, • v-..a, .L :;:;:;:::::; GE0-031-01- Mineralogy- K. Hollocher- BUTR 202 CHM-040~01- Quantitative Chemistry~ R. Schaefer -·BAa 104 ~:~:~:~:~:~ ~:~:;:~:;:;: yRI(-137-0J \'Greek Or~top: -,C. Sol11~- ~ 21.~, . . . . . ; , . CHM-162-01- Polymer Chemistry I -J. Anderson~ BAIL 100 ;~:~;j;~;~; :;:;:;:;:;:: ttST-014 .. 01- Hist of U.S. Sine~ Civil Wat \\ F/Dudden- SSCI 1104 . CLS-025~01- History ofR.ome\' J. Marln<:;ola- HUMN' 0l9 ::::::::::: ;:;:;:~;~:;: LLR..,OSI..;OI- NncleariWeaports & Atms Control- W. M~n -l:HJTR 204 CSC-011-0i • Prognuuniing for Soc SCiences·· J. castleberry -·sTZB: 106 ;i;!;!;;;;; ::::::::::;; MTH-101-Ql - Ad\ranncoo Calclilus for Engrs- S. Perera- BAIL 1!00 BGL-020-01 - Major English Authors II ~ A. Frazier~ HUMN 117 ;:;:::;:;:; ;:;:;:;:;:;: PHY-134-01 -Physical Optics- C. Jones- NWSE 303 \ EGL-027-01- Comedy- P. Heinegg- HUMN 115 . ::::::;:::: ;:;:;:;:;:;: · PSC-064-Ql - Congressional Politics - C. Tidmarch - SSCI 112 EGL-033-01 - Women in the Renaissance - R. Stevenson - HUMN 114 ;:;:;:::;:; ;:;:;:;::::: PSY-010-03- A First Course in Psychology- C. W. Huntley- PYCH lfl2 ELI>049-0l- Nuclear Technology- J. Shan:ebrook .. NWSE 222 ~:~:~;~:~! ;:;:;:;:;:;: PSY-030'-02- Personality~ G. Atlas .. PYCI!ll3 ESC·OlO-OJ- Mechanics I~ M. Mafi- BUTR 106 _ :;:;:;:;;;; :;:;:;:;:;:; · PSY -062 .. 01 - Practicum in Human Relations I - J. Girdner-· PYCH 2,04 .ESC-022-02 - Science of Engrng Materials ... L. Peterson- BUTR 109 ::::::1:~: :;:;:;:;:~:; PSY -162-0l- Intro To Neurobiology- F. Lambert/ R, Olbetg- NWSE 222 ESC-026-02- Thermodynamics- F. Wicks- NWSE 116 . . .. :;;::::;:;: ~:;:;:;:::: SOC-010-02 - Introduction To Sociology - D. Loseke -JIUMN 117 · · ' ESC-030-01 - Mechanics of Deformable Solids -H. Lyons - NWSE 210 :;:;;;:;::: ::~;~;~~:~: . SPN-131-01 - Intro To Spanish-American Lit- M~ Ruiz- HUMN 116 · FRN-010-01 -Basic French I .. L. Day- HUMN HO . · ~!~!!:~;~;~ , :;:;:;:;:;:: GER-120-01. - Intermediate German I- K. Hamm-Ehsani - HUMN 116 :;:;:;:;:;: ::;:~:;:;:;: TUESDAY, MARCH 14 • 4:30-6:30 P.M. • HST-057-01- Modem Jewish History- S. Berk- SSCI 104 ~;~;~:~:~:it ;:;:;:;:;:;: (The following day courses have a common exam with the Evening Division) MTH-040-01- Applied Linear. Algebra- K. Zimmermann- BAIL 207 ' ;i;::::i:z; ;:;:;:;:;:;: CSC,140-0l -Theory of Computing- D. Hannay- S'IZH 106 MTH-070-0l- Fractals., M. Frame- BAIL201 . 1:::::::::: ;;;::::::::: ESC-013-01 - High Level Language Programming - N. ~ur .: BUTR 106 PHY -011-02 - Introduction to Physics I - R. Khosropour - NWSE 112 .;:;;;;;:::: ;:;:;:;:;:;: PSC-047-01 -Law & Public Policy- J. Board- SSCI 103 ;:;:;:;:;:; ;:;:;:;:;;;; TUESDAY, MARCH 14 • 6:30•8:30 P.M. . PSC-055-01- Defense Policy~ C. Brown- SSCI 016 ;:;~;:;:;:; §~:~:;:;:: -GE0-010-01 -Physical Geology- P. Ryberg- Bt.JTR 109 1 PSY-010-02- A First Course in Psychology- S. Greenberg .. PYCH 102 :;:;:;;;:;: · .. • • •·• p· sv· 024. o-1 s ·a~ P h 1 K n · c· 3· .. • ·-· • :;:;:;:;:;:; · . - · . . - .·. - . oct · syc o ogy ~ . oBono - PY H U :::::::~:: :;:;:;:;:;:; WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15 - 8:30-10:30 A.M. PSY -038-01 -Developmental Psychology - S. Bergman~ PYCFI 213 :;:;:;;;:;: :::::;:;1;:: BI0-016-01 - Introduction to Biology I - P. Tobiessen - SSCI 016 RUS-011-01 - Basic Rus~ian II- S. Hash ~ HuMN 112 :;:::;:;;;: :;:::::;:::; CER-153-01 -Environmental Engineering II- P. Snow- BU1R 104 SOC-024-01 -Social Psychology- K. DeBono u PYCH 113. :;:;:;:;:;: :;:::::;:;:: . :cHM-010-01 -Fundamental Chemistry I- C. Scaife- BAIL 207 ~;:;=::;:;; ~:i:i:i:i:~: CHM-010-02- Fundamental Chemistry I- C. Weick- BAIL 207 THURSDAY, MARCH 16, 4:30~6:30 P.M. ·;:;:~:;:~:; ;:;:;:::::;: · C.HM-OI0-3 -Fundamental Chemistry I - C. Scaife - BAIL 207 (The following day course has a common exam with the Evening Division) ;:;:;;;:;:: ::::::::;::: CSC-010-01 -Computers & Computing .. G. Marten ... STZH 108 CSC-135-01- Operating Systems- G. Williams- NWSE 116 ;:;:;:;:::: ;:;:;:;:;:;: CSC~Ol2-01 -Programming For Natd Sciences - L Almstead- STZH 106 _ ;:;:;:;:;:; ;~;~:~:~;~;~ EC0-012-01- Introduction to Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 012 FRIDAY, MARCH 17 - 8:J0 .. 1Q:30 A.M. 1 _ :~:~:l:f ;:::;:;:;::: EC0-140-01- Labor Economics- P. Prosper- SSCI 014 EER-144-01 -Communication Systems I- M. Rudk:o- BAIL 201 ;:;:;:;:1:: · :~;~;~;~;~;~ EC0-141-01- Monetary Economics- E. D. Phaup- SSCI 112 EER-144-02- Communication Systems I- M. Rudko- BAIL 201 :~:;:~:~:~: :;;;:;:;:;:; , ELL-012-01- Homes, Bldgs, & Egr Principles- H. G. Harlow- BUTR 204 ESC-031-01 -Electrical Circuits & Devices I- E. Craig- BUTR 106 :;:;:;:;:;: · :;:;:;;;:;:; ESC-022-01 -Science of Engmg Materials- F. Milillo- NWSE 210 ESC-031\02- Electrical Circuits & Devices I- L. Hollan~er'\ BUTR 300 :::::::;;;: :;:;:;:;:;:: FPR-010-05- Perception and Persuasion- J. Board- SSCI 010 ESC-048-01- Semiconducter Devices & Circuits .. Y. Chang- BUTR 109 :;:;:;:;:;: :;:;:;:::;:: FRN-011-01 -Basic French II- R. Merini- HUMN 112 . ESC-048-02- Semiconducter Devices &Circuits- Y. Chang- BUT.R 109 -:;:;:;:;:;: :;:;:;:;:;:; FRN·120-0l - Intertnediate French I - C. Lapatta- HUMN 116 MTH-012-01 - Cal'culus I1 - W. Stone - BAit 207. :::::;:;:;: :;:::~::;:; .GER-011-01- Basic German II- D. Lund -.HUMN 117 MTH-012-02- Calculus IT- A. Prindle- BUTR 204 :;;;:;:;:;! ~;~;~;~;~;~; ORK-011-01 - Principles of Greek II - C. Somm- HUMN 110 MTH-012-03 ·- Calculus II - S. Niefield.- SSCI 103 - ~;~:i:i:~;~ :~:;:;:;:;: HST-036-01- History of Europe • J. Finkelstein- SSCI 110 MTH-012-04- Calculus II- S. Niefield- SSCI 103 ;:;:;:;:;:; ;:;:;:;:;:;: HST-043-01 -Europe in the Early Modem Eta~ E. Hansen- SSCI 104 MTH-012-05- Calculus II- S. Perera- BAit20S ;:;:;:;:;:; ~;:;:;:;:;: HST-056..:01 -History of Poland- S. Betk- SSCI 103 MTH-014-01 .. Calculus III- E. Gillette- BAIL 100 .;:;~::;;;:; ;~;~;~;~;~;~ MER-030-01- Dynamics of Linear Systems- M. Rivera\' NWSE 222 1. MTH~014-02- Calculus III- A. Seiken- BAIL 106 , ;~;~;~!~:~; :;:;:;:;:;:; MER-.162-01- Thermal Energy Conversion- F. Wicks- NWSE H6 MTH-014-03- Calculus III- W. Stone- BAll. 207 ;;;;;;:;;;; ::;:;:;:;::: MTH-010-01 -Calculus I - T. Bick- BAIL 205 • MTH-014-04- Calculus Ill - W. Fairchild- BAIL 203 :::::::;::: :;:~:~:~:~:~ MTH-136-01- Real Variable Theory I- J. Barbanel- BAIL 102 MTH-020-01 .. Math Methods for Soc Sci I- A. Prindle~ BUTR 204 ;~;~:~;~;~; .:;:;:;:;:;:; PHY-052-01- Classical Mechanics- R Khosropour- NWSE 303 MTH-020-02- Math Methods for Soc Sci I- A. Taylor- BAIL 108 :;:;:;:;:;: :;:;:;:;:;:: PHY -132-01 - Electromagnetism II - J. Newman - BAIL 106 M'I'H -020-03 .. Math Methods for Soc Sci I ~ J. Barbanel - BAR. I 04 -:;:;:;:;:;: :;:;:;:;:;:; SPN-121-01 .. Intermediate Spanish II- M. Ruiz- HUMN 014 MTH-020-04- Math Methods for Soc Sci I- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 102 :::::::::~; :r.m: WEDNESDAY, MARCil 15 • 11:15-1:15 P.M. FRIDAY, MARCil 17 • 11:15-1:15 P.M. :;j::::~ :;;;:;:;:;:; CHM-032-01- Organic Chet11istry II- L Hull- BUTR 204 . CER-151a01- Hy';iraulics ~ T. Jewell •BUTR 106 ~;~;~;~;~;~ -;;:::::::;: CHM-032-02 ·Organic Chemistry II • W. Martin· BUTR 204 HEB-011-01 - Bas1c Hebrew II- D. Heckelman- HUMN 114 ;:::::::::: ~:~:~:1:~:~ . . PHL-031-01 -Medieval Philosophy- F. Davis~ HUMN 110 r~:r~ ;:;:;:;:::: WEDNESUAY, MARCH 15 • 2:00-4:00 P.M. PHL-144-01 - Politi~al Philosophy- R. Baker- HUMN 112 ;:;:;:;:;:; ::::;:::::: ARS-70-01- European Art: 1640 to 1850- D. Robbins- ARTS 215 PSY-031-01 -Abnormal Psychology- G. Atlas- PYCH 213 ::::;=:;::: ;:;:;:;:;:; BI0-066-01 - Sex & Sexuality - F. Lambert - BUTR 204 . ;:;:;:;:;:; ::;:;:;:;:: . EC0-020-01 - Intro to Statistical Analysis- L. Cavalluzzo- NWSE 116 FRIDAY, MARCH 17 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. ;:;:::;:;:; ;:;:;:;:;:; EC0-034-01 - Intro To Financial Analysis -E. D. Phaup- SSCI 014 CHN .. Ol2-0l - Basic Chinese III- L. Gao~ HUMN 110 ;:;:;:;:;:; :~:~:~:;:~: EC0-042-01- Macroeconomic Theory & Policy- B. Lewis- SSCI 104 EC0-031-01- Microcconomic Analysis- B. Reynolds- SSCI 104 :t~:~:~: :;:;:;:;:;: FRN-121-01 - Intermediate French II - L. Day - HUMN 014 EC0-031-02 - Microeconomic Analysis - B. Reynolds - SSCI 104 :;:;:;:;:;: ::::::::::: HST-041-01 -Medieval Europe- D. Baum- SSCI 012 \ .. JPN-012-01 -Basic Japanese III- Y. Nakagawa, HUMN 112 :;:;:;:;::: :;:;:;:;:;: HST-071-01 -Modern History of Middle East- S. Berk- SSCI 016 '; \~. ' PHY-011-01 -Introduction to Physics I- K Schick- BAIL 207 :;:;:;:;:;: :;:::;:::;: ITL-012-01- Basic Italian III- M. Keyes~ HUMN 114 ' PHY-013-01 -Introduction to Physics II- G. Reich- BUTR 204 ::::::::::: ~ti~~ JPN-011-01 • Basic_Jap~ese II.- Y. N~agawa- f11!MN 112 . . PHY-013-03- Introduction to Physics II~ G. Reich- BUTR 204 rt~:~ ;:;:;:;:;:: MTH-030-01 - Ordm Dtfferenual Equattons- A. Seiken- BAIL 100 '~ - · SPN-120~01 -Intermediate Spanish I- P. Moyano· HUMN ,116 :;::::::::: ;:;:;:;:;:; MTH-140-01- Linear Algebra- J. Hefferon- BAIL 205 ·· SPN-120-02- Intermediate Spanish I- R. Vinick- HUMN 117 :::::::::;: :;:;:;:;:;: PHL-012-01 - Philosophical Problems - S. Kaminsky - HUMN 117 , ;:;:;:;:;:: ~-~~~~•••~•@•@•~•~•••••~•mwoommw~@MR&m®~••m•m•ml li • '\, I / ·~ c ~ 0 ~- ~ ti3 .~ til . \\\' fi'-1 ~ ~ ~ \\t $:! ~ ~ \\\' \'r:;). \\\' I,Q eg ~ ('!) - w

< \ Page 14 Cll/{C(JRDIE;NSfS Fl?bruary ·16, 19'89 WRUC Trivia Update Phi Sig, \The Relatives'' and Smith House are in the lead~·· This week's bonus question is to name all the movies that have starred any member ~f• any Saturday Night Live Cast. Entries must submitted between be 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. at WRUC Office (4th floor College Trivia) 1988-89 S.PRING TERM PRES .. CHEDULlNG P.RQCEDURES - ' - . Prescheduling materials w.ill be avai1ap1e at the Registrar'·s O:ff:ice peginning FRIDAY, F'.EBRUARY 17TH. students shQulO. review the .course list- ing/ consvl.t their adviser, and select the courses tney wish to take. It . is advisable for students to have aqdi tio.nal choices in mind in the event : · one or mo.re of their first three 'cour$es becomes available. .EVERY ,STU- DENT WILL BE REQUIRED TO HAVE •THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR ?RESCHEDULING FORM. lF THE ADV:+SER IS UNAVAJLABLE, A STUDENT SHOULO CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some coQrses are available only with the permission o.f tne departmentr .. These are referred to as \card\ courses, and are so indicated on the course listing with an .asteri$k (*}. Lists for these co~rses will be posted by the departments o.n WEDNES.DAY, .FEBRUARY 22ND. Students ,should sign bhese Usts to indicate an lnterestand then return to the depart- li'.ent on FR!DAY, FEBRUARY 24TH to find out w}:lether or not they have been . admitted. Those adrrd. tted to a card course must get a reservation carci from the Q:epartment. Ih order to pick up a card; you MUST nave your . prescheduling. form •With you to be va·lidated by th.e departlTlent. You are not permitted to pick up more. than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOT:J;;: CARDS NOT PICKED liP BY 4: 3 0 p.m. ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27TH WILL J?,E GIVEN TO TliE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST: NO ON:S WILL BE ALLOWED TO SIGN Up ;FOR A ''CARD\ COURSE WITHOUT THE CARD. only these coutse require pepniss.icm : cards. Signing up for an Independent study or Internship reqttires the completion of ~ form· whi-ch is available i:n · tne Regi::;trar's Office. This · form must be properly filled out and. signed with all :the FJecessary signa- tures o.r it will· not be processed, A first tern Research Project re- quires the signatures of the departlTlent cbairma:n and the--supervising faculty lTlember, preferably o.n depa;rtmenta1 l.etterhead or memo p<;ipar. . The date and time for ei;!.Ch student''$ appointment is printed on the label of their prescheduling forlTI. Students may n.ot preregister e.arlie'r than their assigned time. HowE!ver, they may come anytime AFTER their appoint- ment if their schedule permits. ?RESCHEDULING WILLCONCLUDE. ON FRIDAY.' MARCH 3RD.. Addit.ional course changes may next be made during the · · • 11 drop(acld\ period at Registration ·in March at the Fieldhouse. students will be adm.i tted to Whitaker House at . the time printed on their ~. · prescheduling form. Once inside, they shoul-d verify that the courses they hq.ve chosen are not closed. If·one o;r more courses are closed, they . should sE;lect new ones and correct their form.. Then they should see a staff member ··in the Registrar's Office who will process their courses. students who do not plan to return to Union for .the spring term, except for seniors who are completing their requirements early, should IMMED:t- ATELY NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE. Potential March 1989 \grad- uates!• should also immediately notify the Registrar's Office o:f their plans to finish their studies at the end of the winter term IF THEY HAVE NOT ALREADY DONE SO! Office of the Registrar February, 1989 LEWIS HENRY MORGAN INFORMAL FACULTY COLLOQUIA THE vVELLESLEY COLLEGE CHOIR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC l\1EN'S GLEE CLUB THE t;l\ION COLLEGE CHOIR and The Department df Sociolog-y and Anthropology invites you to attend a lecture on: THE GLEi'iS FALLS S'i-'::\IPHONY ORCHESTRA under the direction of HLGH AUDI Vr1LSON present SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1989 8:00 P.M. \1EMORIAL CHAPEL UNION COLLEGE Schenectady, New York GE:\JERAL PUBLIC TICKETS $10 .. 00 HONEGGER'S King David SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 19,1989 3:00P.M. GLENS FALLS HIGH SCHOOL Glens Falls, New York TICKETS $15.00 ''A FRESH LOOK AT A TRADITIONAL RELATIONSHIP: GRANDPARENTS AND GRANDCHI·LD'RE;N ·IN THE 1980'S'' DR. VI'RGINlA DERSCH Visiting Assistant Professor of Sociology THURSDA.Y, FEBRUARY 23RD 3:30 PM SOCIAL SCIENCES 105 .Refreshments

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS Februnry 16, 1989 111111111111111 IIIII I WRUC Trivia Update Phi Sig, \The Relatives\ an·d Smith House are in the lead .. e This week's bonus question is to name all the movies that have starred any member of any Saturday Night Live Cast. must Entries submitted between be 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. at WRUC Office (4th floor College Trivia) 1988-89 SPRING TERM PRESCHEDULING PROCEDURES Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, FEBPIJA.RY 17TH. students should review the course list- ing, consult their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three courses becomes available. EVERY STU- DENT WILL BE REQUIRED TO HAVE •THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULrNG FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVA:;I:LABLE, A STUDENT SHOULD CONSULT WI'I'H THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These a::te referred to as \card\ courses, and are so indicated on the course listing with an asterisk (*). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22ND. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the depart- ment on FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 24TH to find out whether or not they have. been admitted. Those admitted to a card course must get a reservation card from the department. Im order to pick up a card, you MUST have ye>ur prescheduling form with you to be validated by the department. Y()U are not permitted to pick up more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: C.ARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30 p.lll. ON MONDAY. FEBRUARY 27TH WILL BE GIVEN 'FO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST: NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO SIGN UP FOB A \CARD\ COURSE ·WITHOUT THE CARD. Only these course require permissi()n cards. Signing up for an Independent study or Internship requires the completion of ?I forrn·which is available in the Registrar's Office. This form must be properly filled out and signed with all the necessary signa- tures or it will not be processed. A first term Research Project re- quires the signatures of the department chairman and the supervisimg faculty member, preferably on departmental letterhead or memo paper. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of their prescheduling form. Students may not preregister earlier than their assigned time. Ho:wever, they may come anytime AFTER their appoint- ment if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAy-,· MARCH 3RD. Additional course changes may next be made during the \dropjadd\ period at Registration in March at the Fieldhouse. students will b~ admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling forn. Once inside, they should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their form. Then they should see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who will process their courses. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the spring term, except for seniors who are completing their requirements early, should DiliEDI- ATELY NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE. Potential March 1989 \grad- uates\ should also imme<liately notify the Registrar's Office of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the winter term IF THEY HAVE NOT ALREADY DONE SO! Office of the Registrar February, 1989 LEWIS HENRY MORGAN INFORMAL FACULTY COLLOQUIA TI-IF \YF LLESLEY COLLEGE CHOIR WORCESTER POLYTECHNIC :\lEN'S GLEE CLUB THE l:'\ION COLLEGE CHOIR and The Department of Sociology and Anthropology invites you to attend a lecture on: THE CLE\\S FALLS SY\IPHO;\.\Y ORCHESTRA LJndl'r the direction nf Bl t,fl -\1.!.!':\' \\lLSON pre .. t·n t SA lTRDAY, FEBRLARY 18. 19R9 S:OO P.:'\.1. \IE\IORIAL CHAPEL ll:\£0:\ COLLEGE Schenectady. :\ie'\ York <; E:\ER:\L PCBLIC TICKETS S 10.00 HO:'\ECCER'S King David S~l)AY, FEBRUARY 19, 1989 3:00P.M. GLENS FALLS HIGH SCHOOL Glens Falls, New York TICKETS $15.00 \A FRESH LOOK AT A TRADITIONAL RELATIONSHIP: GRANDPARENTS AND GRANDCHILDREN IN THE 1980'S\ DR. VIRGINIA DERSCH Visiting Assistant Professor of Sociology THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23RD 3:30 PM SOCIAL SCIENCES 105 Refreshments

I I i I CONCORDIENSJS February l6, 1989 Page 15 .... : ._....___._. __ A_-_---R_T_s __ ·.···-- ... &_. E_ .•. N· ... -- T .... · E .... R_. T_A_IIIIIIIII!IIN .... M_E_N_T_· ......_ ___ -.lilA J:: Bo-und'' - :Simon New Ground Breaks ,s· KATIE B.O.YD .. . y . '' . Arts Editor Neil Simon's \13roadway Bound'' is a step beyolld his usual light theatrics. lt is tb~ bit~ersweet edge.; '-~he. unan'Swere.d questio:ns of \Broadway Bound'\ wb,ich . provide a depth seldom found .in Simon's work. The final of · Simon's semi.,autobiograp.hical . trilogy, \Broadway Bound\ explores Eugene (Sim.on.'s per.sona) tremulous 'move to adulthood.J Having progressed from the puberty-on-tlie-brain. adolescent -of \Brighton. Beach · Memoirs\ to the· wise ·cracking observer of \Biloxi Blues'' it is · in \Broadway Bound\ that · Eugene finally establishes himself as a eating and thus · empathetic character. Eugene 7 concentrating o.n __ those grown-up things so many of us are now concerned with such as 'jobs' and 're1ation~.hips,' must also confront his parents' breakup. It's not an easy time and Simon provides no easy anwers ot neat endings. It's time for Eugene to grpw up and faced Barbara Tarbuck as,Kate in \Bro<:J.dway Bound\ with this topic, Simon seems • It cannot be stressed enough, to mature as well. though, that this play is True to Simon form the play different than typical Simon is full of irttriguing eha:racters plays: There is more to it. And and fantastic one-liners. the actors who performed Eugene's socialist grandfath~r February 9 at Proctor's fa~ed a ('Clrarmingty playeifbY1t6ffiiy · -~ formidable task: Barbara Crabam) ,retorts to que_st,ions Tarbuck's {playing Kate, why 11e's not living in Fl6rida Eugene's mother) exceptional because· \you change ,Y;9Uf performance successfnlly bathing suit not the w(;>rld captured the humorous yet there.\ To his lack of a·sc:5rlse poignant trials of a Brighton. of humor Eugene notes \he Beach daughter, wife, and. hasn't laughed since the stock mother. Kurt Deutsch, as market crashed.\ _ ·-- Eugene~ ~also excelled and - established a movmg relationship between mother and son. The other actors gave adequate performances but seemed a bit stiff, as if intimidated by the extra chores of a more substantive script. If you enjoy Simon plays, do not miss ''Broadway Bound.\ If you usually do not enjoy Simon plays, ·feeling they're too light or flippant. go see \Broadway Bound.\ Simon's growth is more than fictional. I~ -~ <( :c 1-- a: ~ ~ 0 5 r ,a. . Horoscopes by ''K\ Aq.uarius. Remember those stoti.es about throwing the little fish back into the water so it'd change into a mermaidNanna White/Mel Gibson. Well those were fairytales, Grow-up and hold on! Pisces. Thesis is bad?! Classes a chore?! Things could be worse. You could be addiCted to heroin. · Aries. So much work? 'rests? Think it's not fun? Rerne_!Jlber caffeine highs briNg new insights and don't show up on drug tests. Taurus. So you didn't get anything for Valentine's Day. Before you shoot your love remember there's always President's Day. Gemini·. Don't show that special someone your tan lines before you get them. Wait until after spring break. Cancer. The circus is in town. you will fall madly in love with the tightrope walker or the bearded lady, and spend the rest of your life .traveling to Lincoln, Nebraska. Co~gratulations. Leo. Mardi-gras beads only go so far. Remember cash always speaks louder. Virgo. Remember if you must write in bathroom stalls bring your own paper. Libra. Fish is great when fresh, but like house guests begins to smell after a few days. Think about it. Scorpio. Mars i-s your ruler this month with your mooa in recession so while things seem to be moving backwards they probably arc. Sagittatus. Use the word 'love' sparingly this week. Be sure you mean it. Play iL safe and restrict it to food. Capricorn ... .It's good, really good. So good they won't · let me print it. ISSING COUSINS • ! By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor I Larry Kozinski (Ted ~nson) is adance teacher who switches jobs every two years in order to avoid becoming successful. His wife; not very aptly named · Tish (Sean Young), i~ a fashion consultant -- a glorified Avon Lady -- who is having an affair with a married BMW salesman, Larry meanwhile is falling in love with. the BMW salesman's wife, Maria (Isabella Rosselini), and Larry's uncle and father (Lloyd Bridges) are both after Maria's mother, the ''Bermuda Triangle.\ These and other romantic escapades. form the basis of \Cousins.\ a warm and fairly entertaining ·new film directed by Joel Schumacher. ·\Cousins. major, and · perhaps only, strength is its characters. and the wonderful idiosyncracies of the big Italian family that all the characters are related to. Some of the minor charactaers in particular ate wonderful, such as the ancient and permanently black- clad grandmother who laments that Maria's mother is remarrying when her last husband \is buried only 5 years.\ Another great character is the BMW salesman. who is literally having an affair with Submit to the IDOL Creative Writing! Poems! Short Stories 1 Plays! ·Whatever! Vignettes/ Box 1116 every woman in town. He is such a seedy geek that he thinks selling BMW's instead of Subaru's constitutes a huge jump in the social register. \Cousins\ is light but it's extremely pleasant; just a nice movie about weddings and marriages and confused 15 year olds. It's remarkably similar to \Moonstruck\ with respect to its general tone and 'Italian Family' backdrop, yet by virtue of its cast and script, \Moonstruck\ was simply a better film. ;'Cousins\ has its charm, however, and some worthwhHe moments. On the whole, if you 1 i k cd ,;Moonstruck\ and \Crossing Delancey,\ \Cousins\ is probably right up your .alley. B.

CONCORDIENSJS February 16, 1989 Page IS ~ ___________ A_R_·T_S_&_·_E_N_T_E_R_T_A_IN_M_E_N_T _______ ~~;J;; ''Broadway Bound\ - Simon Breaks New Ground By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor Neil Simon's \Broadway Bound\ is a step beyond his usual light theatrics. It is the bittersweet edge; ~he unanswered questions of \Broadway Bound\ which provide a depth seldom found in Simon's work. The final of Simon's semi-autobiographical trilogy, \Broadway Bound\ explores Eugene (Simon's persona) tremulous 'move to adulthood.' Having progressed from the puberty-on-the-brain adolescent of \Brighton Beach Memoirs\ to the wise cracking observer of \Biloxi Blues\ it is in \Broadway Bmmd\ that Eugene finally establishes himself as a caring and ~bus empathetic character. w Eugene, concentrating on those grown-up things so many of us are now concerned with such as 'jobs' and 'relationships,' must also confront his parents' breakup. It's not an easy time and Simon provides no easy anwers or neat endings. It's time for ENgcne to grow up and faced with this topic, Simon seems to mature as well. 'c. True to Simon form the play is full of intriguing characters and fantastic one-liners. Eugene's socialist grandfather (charmingly played by Ronny Graham) retorts to questions why he's not living in Florida because \you change your bathing suit not the world there.\ To his lack of a sense of humor Eugene notes \he hasn't laughed since the stock market crashed.\ Barbara Tarbuck as Kate in \Broadway Bound\ • It cannot be stressed enough, though, that this play is different than typical Simon plays. There is more to it. And the actors who performed February 9 at Proctor's faced a · formidable task. Barbara Tarbuck's (playing Kate, Eugene's mother) exceptional performance successfully captured the humorous yet poignant trials of a Brighton Beach daughter, wife, and mother. Kurt Deutsch, as Eugene, also excelled and - established a movtng relationship between mother and son. The other actors gave adequate performances but seemed a bit stiff, as if intimidated by the extra chores of a more substantive script. If you enjoy Simon plays, do not miss \Broadway Bound.\ If you usually do not enjoy Simon plays, feeling they're too light or flippant, go see \Broadway Bound.\ Simon's growth is more than fictional. ~ ~ I b: :1 > Cil 0 b I c. Horoscopes by ''K'' Aquarius. Remember those stories about throwing the little fish back into the water so it'd change into a mermaid/Vanna White/Mel Gibson. Well those were fairytales. Grow-up and hold on! Pisces. Thesis is bad?! Classes a chore?! Things could be worse. You could be addicted to hemin. Aries. So much work? Tests? Think it's not fun? Remember caffeine highs bring new insights and don't show up on drug tests. Taurus. So you didn't get anything for Valentine's Day. Before you shoot your love remember there's always President's Day. Gemini. Don't show that special someone your tan lines before you get them. Wait until a!\tcr spring break. Cancer. The circus is in town. you will fa!! madly in love with the tightrope walker or the bearded lady, and spend the rest of your life traveling to Lincoln, Nebraska. Congratulations. Leo. Mardi-gras beads only go so far. Remember cash always speaks louder. Virgo. Remember if you must write in bathroom stalls bring your own paper. Libra. Fish is great when fresh, but like house guests begins to smell after a few days. Think about it. Sco.rpio. Mars is your ruler this month with your moon in recession so while things seem to be moving backwards they probably arc. Sagittarus. Usc the word 'love' sparingly this week. Be sure you mean it. Play it safe and restrict it to food. Capricorn ... .It's good, really good. So good they won't let me print it. ISSING COUSINS By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor Lany Kozinski (Ted Danson) is a dance teacher who switches jobs every two years in order to avoid becoming successful. His wife, not very aptly named Tish (Sean Young), is a fashion consultant-- a glorified A von Lady -- who is having an affair with a married BMW salesman. Larry meanwhile is falling in love with. the BMW salesman's wife, Maria (Isabella Rosselini), and Larry's uncle and father (Lloyd Bridges) are both after Maria's mother, the \Bermuda Triangle.\ The.:;e and other romantic escapades form the basis of \Cousins a warm and fairly e11tertaining new film directed by Joel Schumacher. \Cousins\' major, and perhaps only, strength is its characters, and the wonderful idiosyncracies of the big Italian family that all the characters are related to. Some of the minor charactaers in particular are wonderful, such as the ancient and permanently black- clad grandmother who laments that Maria's mother is remarrying when her last husband \is buried only 5 years.\ Another great character is the BMW salesman, who is literally having an affair with Submit to the IDOL Creative Writing! Poems! Short Stories! Plays! Vignettes! Whatever! Box 1116 every woman in town. He is such a seedy geek that he thinks selling BMW's instead of Subaru's constitutes a huge jump in the social register. \Cousins\ is light but it's extremely pleasant; just a nice movie about weddings and marriages and confused 15 year olds. It's remarkably similar to \Moonstruck\ with respect to ~ Who's Harry ·crumb (PG .. l3} Beaches (PG-13) Three Fugitives (PG .. 13) The Fly II (R) Bill & Ted 1 s ... (PG) ·Rain Man (R) its general tone and 'llalian Family' backdrop, yet hy virtue of its cast and script, \Moonstruck\ was simply a better film. \Cousins\ has its charm, however, and some worthwhile moments. On the whole, if you liked \Moonstruck\ and \Crossing Delancey,\ \Cousins\ is probably right up your alley. B. (PG} (PG) True Believers (R) (G) (PG) (R) (PG) can Theaters for Show Times.

Page 16 CONCORD{ENSJS February 16,' 1989. --~--~----~~--------------~--~--~~~ ~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The'Four'POPES. BY JOHN S. MORGAN The Popes came to town last Friday evening to demonstrate that hard working rock 'n roll can warm Schenectady up. Hailing from North Carolina, The Popes arc touring to support their debut record Hi, We're The. Popes. Their two a.nd a half hour performance warmed many hearts, and coupled with the R.A. Auction, provided a successful kick-off to Winterfcst Weekend. The subtle humor that John Elderkin, who shares vocal duties, supplied between songs was entertaining, but the hi!!hlil!ht of The Pop·cs' appearance was their musical performance. A guitar oriented rock band, Elderkin and Steve Ruppenthal lead with vocals and solid guitar work with an edge. As an aside, Ruppentllal celebrated his 24th birthday while playing CameJ!ie. Henry Pharr and Albert Nisbet form a tight rhythm section on. bass and drums, respectively - in addition to providing stage theatrics. · · The first set of thy show, which lasted for one hour, was highlighted by \The Day I Had To Explode\ from Hi, We're The Popes. The song is full of catchy guitar hooks and provides some insight in to what Ruppenthal - the song's author - thinks ofhis friends. The Popes proved that their 1 ivc show can stand on its own with a multi~udc of originals, so the covers that they performed fell into the department of \gravy.\ They stripped down The Replacements' \I Will Dare\ and cranked out a superb rocker. Another cover tune that was received wih a warm response was \There She Goes· Again\ a Velvet Underground original that is also an R;E_M_ staple. Radiating Heat In Albany Ry PATTI RRILLY Fresh from Mardi Gras, The Radiators arrived at the SUNY Ballroom last Thursday night, ready to heat up Albany on the coldest night of the year. This New Orleans based band ha-; a style .rooted in its Cajun origin, and a driving beat that is almost euphoric. With a sound similar to l .ittleFcat, it is virtually impossihlc to keep your own feet still while the band lets loose. My first introduction to The Radiators came about a year ago when I heard their only album, Law of the !<'ish-- released in l9S7. I was immediately intrigued by their music. When !he opportunity arose for me to roadtrip to New Orleans last summer, I was positive that I would be dancing to their tunes on Bourbon Street the night of my arrival. My, hopes were dashed, however: The Radiators had eluded me; they were nowhere to be found. So, when Thursday afternoon rolled around, and I happened to hear that they were playing only 20- minutes away, I got my' expectations up once again. I was not disappointed this time. This concert was worth the wait. I arrived early, anticipating a scli-out crowd. However, I was surprised to find that the Ballroom was almost empty. As the warm-up played, the hall filled up. and among the fans was a small group of Radiators faithful from Union. The hall never became overcrowded and the stage was set for a great show. The Radiators opened with \Sparkplug\, a powerful song laced with slide guitar. Ed Volker, the keyboardist whose appearance resembled ~ cross between a mad scientist and a bayou bullfrog, croaked out the. lead vocals. The songs that followed had the same energetic rhythm which had the whole room da-ncing. \Suck the Head\ a song which e.pitom izes the bands' throbbing, Cajun sound, was a real crowd-pleaser. The song instructs, \Suck the head, squeeze the tip.\ The band tells us that this is' the process of ·· eating crawfish, and not what you might think. Another song which was played from their released album was the Litle lrack,. \Law of (he Fish\. This was one of the hand's best. There were also plenty of bootleg tunes which added variety to the show. A favorite of rny close friend was ''Someone Like You\. The Radiators also gave us some new songs which maintain their tradition of quality reck and roll. \Confidential\ is a soon-to-be-released cut_ keep your ears open for it. Along with quality came quantity. There was a lot of music and not .much time for :meto··caich my breath~ As Ttie Radiators. returned for tlleir encore, I wasn't quite sure if my legs would hold out for the songs to come. They :paid tribute to LittleFeat with an inspired cover of \Willin\' and gave the audience two other jams by which to remember them. The concert was over. I wasn't sorry that it ended, though, The Radiators had brought a southerly breeze w:ith them to Albany and somehow, the walk back to the car wasn't quite as cold as the walk in. The concert had been just what I needed to kick my Winter Term Blues .. .It was a taste of Mardi Gras right here in Albany. The tone for the second set was demonstrated early, as \Marilyn\ and \Charmless\ ... both from the record - were showcased early. The set was packed full of no less than 16 songs. The show closed down with another barrag·e of tastefully chosen :Covers .. The Popes \Surrender\ by Cheap Trick was r.Qusing. \Reptessio:n\, llil old Clash favorite, was also performed, and .The Modern Love.11s' tune \Roadrunner\ brought people to the dance floor in droves. It should also be nQted that Pharr did a · reputable R~y Orbison whell a Traveling Wilburys' song was pulled off in the middle of the second set. The show was quite successful, and Concert and Social Committees look forward to similar successes in the future: The Wisbniaks from Philadelphia on February 24. DON'T F·ORGET: A P4RTY WITH . . ' . F~R·E:E. FOOD AND MUSIC FEATURIN,G RO.CK~-N-ROLL BY THE AR·CHIMEDEAN SC:REWTRACTORS fR,IDAY I 'fEBRUARY~ 17, 1989 OLD CHAP'EL 9 PM·· .. 12 ·PM.

_P_a_ge_1_6 ________________ -=C..::O..::..:....:NCORDlENSIS February 16, 1989 ~. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The'Four'POPES I~Y JOHN S. MORGAN The Popes came to town last Friday evening to demonstrate that hard working rock 'n roll can warm Schenectady up. Hailing from North Carolina, The Popes arc tourililg to support their debut record IIi, We're The Popes. Their two and a half hour performance warmed many hearts, and coupled with the R.A. Auction, provided a o;;uccessful kick-off to Winte-riest Weekend. ThC' suhtiC' h urn or that John Elderkin, who shar~_'' \\Ocal duties, supplied between song.~ was entertaining, hut the hiQhlil!IH of The Popes' appearaRce was their musical performance. A guitar oriented rock band, Elderkin and Steve Ruppenthal lead with vocals and solid g11itar work with an edge. As an aside, Ruppenthal celebrated his 24th birthday while playing Carnegie. Henry - Pharr and Albert Nisbet .fonn a tight rhythm section 011 bass and drums, respectively - in addition to providing stage theatrics. The first set of the show, which lasted for one hour, was highlighted by \The Day I Had To Explode\ from Hi, We're The Popes. The song is ft:dl of catchy guitar hooks and provides some insight into what Ruppenthal - the song's author - thinks of his fri<!nds. The Popes proved that thei:r live show can stand on its own with a multitude of originals, so the cov crs that they performed fell iiHD the department of \gravy.\ They stripped down The Replacements' \I Will Dare\ and cranked out a superb rocker. Another cover tuue that was received wih a warm response was \There She Goes Again\ a Velvet UndergFOund original that is also an R.E.M. staple. Radiating Heat In Albany By PATTI REILLY Fresh from Mardi Gras, The Radiators arrived at the SUNY Ballroom last Thursday night, ready to heat up Albany on the coldest night of the year. This New Orleans based band has a style rooted in its Cajun origin, and a driving heat that is almost euphoric. With a sound similar to l.ittlcFeat, it is virtually impossible lo keep your own feet still while the band lets loose. My first introduction to The Radiators came about a year ago when I heard their only album, Law of the }<'ish-- released in 19H7. I was immediately mtngued by their music. When ~he opportunity arose for me to roadtrip to New Orleans last summer, I was positive that I would be dancing to their tunes on Bourbon Sucet the night of my arrival. My hopes were dashed, however: The Radiators had eluded me; they were nowhere to be found. So. when Thursday afternoon rolled around, and I happened to hear that they were playing only 20 minutes away, I got my expectations up once again. I was not disappointed this time. This concert was worth the wait. r arrived early, anticipating a sell-out crowd. However, I was surprised to find that the Ballroom was almost empty. As the warm-up played, the hall filled up, and among the fans was a small group of Radiators faithful from Union. The hall never became overcrowded and the stage was set for a great show. The Radiators opened with \Sparkplug\, a powerful song laced with slide guitar. Ed Volker. the keyboardist whose appearance resembled a cross between a mad scientist and a bayou bullfrog, croaked Gllt the lead vocals. The songs that followed had the same energetic rhythm which had the whole room dancing. \Suck the Head\ a song which epitomizes the bands' throbbing, Cajun sound, was a real crowd-pleascr. The song instructs, \Suck the head, squeeze the tip.\ The balld tells us that this is the process of eating crawfish, and not what you might think. Another song which was played from their released album was the ti tic track, \Law of the Fish\. !his was one of the band's best. There were also plcn ty of bootleg tunes which added variety to the show. A favorite of my close friend was \Someone Like You\. The Radiators also gave us some new songs which maintain their tradition of quality rock and roll. \Confidential\ is a soon-to-be-released cut_ keep your cars open for it. Along with quality came quantity. There was a IGt of music and not much time for me to catch my bFeath. As The Radiators returned for their encore, I wasn't quite strre if my legs would hold out for the songs to come. They paid tribute to LittleFeat witl1 an inspired cover of \Willin'\ and gave the audience two oLhcr jams by which to remember them. The concert was over. I wasn't sorry that it ended, though. The Radiators nad brought a southerly breeze with them to Albany and somehow, the walk back to the car wasn't quite as cold as the walk in. The concert had been just what I needed to kick my Winter Term Blues .. .It was a taste of Mardi Gras right here in Albany. Tile tone for the second set was demonstrated early, as \Marilyn\ and \Cha.Frnless\ - both from the record - were showcased early. The set was packed full of no less than 16 songs. The show closed down with another barrage of tastcftllly chosen covers. The Popes \Surrender\ by Cheap Trick was rousing. \Repression\, an old Clash favorite, was also performed, and The Modern Lovers' tune \Roadrunner\ brought people to the dance floor in droves. lt should also be noted that Pharr did a reputable Roy Orbison when a . <~--. r drount;~lt . -• Yaah Y~atl*' .::~---: -. .-.-' . .-:. ,. ;,.,.,.--...~- ... -· .. Traveling Wilburys' song was pulled off in the middle of the second set. The show was quite successful, and Concert and Social Committees look forward to similar successes in the future: The Wishniaks from Philadelphia on February 24. .. ~-i . .. ····:~~!~·.F~~~i;~~··~~iti,;y·;;.,: .~;~·~:.~~~:=t~~. Twe$day ··· Co~!8d by Roo EuQ.~nto ar1d J&hn. s~ Morgan DON'T FORGET: A PARTY W·ITH FREE FOOD AND MUSIC FEATURING ROCK-N-ROLL BY THE ARCHIM·EDEAN SCREWTRACTORS F.RIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1989 OLD CHAPEL 9 PM - 12 PM At Middlebury B CfJ CfJ <! LJJ ....J 6 Cll 0 b :c 0.

.CQNC(JRDIENSIS February 16, 1989 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT \Visit\ At The Nott By JESSICA ADE'LSON This winter~s pro.duc:ti<>n has turned out ·tO be quite a production. Like the ffu, it seems the acting bug has struck Union's camptLs this winter. Sporting a ·cast of 44 actors and actresses, -director Barry Smith has takea up a massive project in deci(ling to perform \The Vis it\ by Friedrich Duerrenmatt. This is perhaps the largest cast Union College's smaLl .stage h!ts ever seen and it shows tire .g.l'eatest male participation in a threatre produoth:m. This is. quite unusuai'for a strictly .lltamatic production: because it is; often the musical pr()ducti()n.S that attract large namb.ers of students at auditioas. For whatever the reason, there seems to be a resurgence in interest in theatre at Union Collge and so ProfessO<J Sjnith ·has responsed with e1 large production. · The show .is challenging for the production ·crew, actors and director because of the size of the cast and the Complexity of the play's concepts. The plot of the play is simple and direct which makes for clearly developed themes and character-s. The focus of the play is the arrival of a billion airess, Clai r:e Zazhanassian, to her poverty stricken home town. She promises Iter town a gift of a l3tge sum 9f money pending :they meet her requirements. These requirements truly put the human chaxacter to the test and bring to light many 11nfa v o rabl e human characteristics sue~ as greed, and self concern, and revenge. Duerrenmatt's play is full of cynicism as it paints a view of life centered around greed, power, frustrated love, and a frllitless search for justice. The Nott 1 S stage has been redesigned in anticipation of \The Visit''. The theatre has been conv'erted into a semi- circle rather than the usual theatre in the round, which is !he theatre's nonnal appearance, :to better accommodate the logistics. of this large scale production. Although the size of production seems overwhelming the outline of the play is simple and it is in its simpleness from which the play derives its structure and depth of character development. There is much work going into the technical end of the play as well as on the stage. The show opens on Monday, February 27, and will run until Saturday, March 4. Showtime wiH be at 8 p.m. and tickets will cost $3 for students and $5 for faculty and staff. The box office will open on the 20th so be sure to reserve your tickets. With a cast this big you are bound to know at least one member so you should play it safe. And smart! Go see \The Visit\. Professor Wick's 1.60% efficient furnace. Stellar Skellar Poetry By DINA SCHWEITZER It was 8:20 p.m. on Tuesday, February 7, and I was Skellar bound to enjoy a comfortable hour of poetry · readings from members oti the Idol committee. As l neared the Skellar back door, I reached for the door knob and peered into the window; suddenly, a rush of ambiance fell over me. The Skellar had been Lransformed into a troubadour cafe, candle Get an opinion Get a clue. Read Concordiensis News Analysis, Page Two Unio:n _Does King David Honegger's King D:.vid will be performed Sat11rday evening, February 18, at 8 p..m. at the Union College Memorial Chapel with the Union College, Choir.. the Wellesley College Clloir, · Worcester Polyte~ltnic Institute's Glee Club aad the Glens Falls Symp:h(}ny Orchestra. Hugh Allen Wilson will conduct, David Lloyd, former head Qf the .()pera deJ)artment at Juitiard in New York City, is ·the nartator. Carol Randl(ls, alto; · Jim Pouillotof Lake George Opera, te!lor; aa1.d Ann Tanner, soprano are the soloists. This is the first appearailce: of the Glens Falls Symptwny Orchestra in the captial district Tickets are $1().00 and will be available· at the door.(No cllarge to those - with Union College I.D. for the MemorialCilapel concert.) King David will be performed the following day, S~nday. February 19 at the G1ens Falls High School at 3 p.m. Tickets are $15.00 The three schools will perform King David for the last time at the National Cathedral in Washington, DC on February 26, Sunday afternoon at 4 p.m. For further information. please contact the Department of the Arts at Union College. lit and sufficiently equipped to satiate anyone's appetite. An assortment of food and drink kept everyone occupied as our audiennce blew in with the wind; then we began. Katie Boyd introduced us as the \regulars of the Idol,\ who traditionally meet in Carnegie on Wednesdays to discuss our work. Amongst a handful of guests eagerly awaiting our · spoken words, a single wooden - chair awaited its seater. Val Sarwin, Jos.: Andrad~.:, Craig Lyons, Melissa Bloom (an audience member), Katie Boyd and l read .several poems to our receptive guests. The hour wound down, cigarette smoke lingered over candk lit tahlcs and we delivered our labors of love. It was 9:35 p.m. and all had been read, but as 1 glanced around the room I knew this was just the beginning of many more evenings Lo come. A&E Briefs Capital Rep., Albany 462-4534 Tonight-March 19, 8:00. \Glengarry Glen Ross\: Pulitzer Prize winning play by David Mamet. $9.00 f()r students. Caffe lena, Saratoga Spring.s 583-0022 ·Thurs., 8:00. Open Mike Nite. Fri., Sat. 8:30. Oscar Brand: Folk historian, ·Musicologist, Radio personality, Author. Proctor's, Schenectady 382•1 083 Tonight, 8:00. Mark Russel. Sat., 8:00. \Big Band Show.\ Call for tickets and prices. Half Moon Cafe, Albany · 436-0329 Fri.: Jazz by \Cygnus.'' Sun.: Folk Music wiht Herb Carter College Center, Union College Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9, 11. Midnight Run. Wed. 7,9, 11. Arthur.

CONCORDIENSIS February 16, 1989 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT \Visit'' At The Nott By JESSICA ADELSON This winter's production has turned out to be quite a production. Like the flu, it seems the acting bug has struck Union's campus this winter. Sporting a cast of 44 actors and actresses, director Barry Smith has taken up a massive project in deciding to perform \The Visit\ by Friedrich Ducrrenmatt. This is perhaps the largest cast Union College's small stage has ever seen and it shows the greatest male participation in a threatre production. This is quite unusual· for a strictly dramatic production because it is often the musical productions that attract large numbers of students at auditions. For whatever the reason, there seems to be a resurgence in illlerest in theatre at Union Collge and so Professor S,milh has responsed with a large production. The show is challenging for the production crew, actors and director because of the size of the cast and the complexity of the play's concepts. The plot of the play is simple and direct which IDakcs for clearly developed themes and characters. The focus of the play is the arrival of a billionairess, Claire Zazhanassian, to her poverty stricken lwme town. She promises her town a gift of a lacgc sum of money pending they meet her requirements. These requirements truly put the human character to the test and bring to light many unfavorable human characteristics such as greed, and self concern, and revenge. Duerrenmatt's play is full of cynicism as it paiats a view of life centered around greed, power, frustrated love, and a fruitless search for justice. The Nett's stage has been redesigned in anticipation of \The Visit\. The theatre has been converted into a semi- circle ra~her than the u sua! theatre in the round, which is the theatre's nor~nal appcru:ance, to better accomnwda~e the logistics of this large scale prod1:1ction. AI though the size of production seems overwhelming the outline of the play is simple and it is in its si·mplcness from which the play derives its structtHc and depth of character development. There is much work going imo the technical end of the play as well as on the stage. The show opens on Monday, February 27, and will run until Saturday, March 4. Showtime will be at 8 p.m. and tickets will cost $3 for students and $5 for faculty and staff. The box office will open on the 20th so be sure to reserve your tickets. With a cast this big you arc bound to know at least o11e member so you should play it safe. And smart! Go see \The Visit\. J 31 , ' .J,it'~ ~ \ '{ • Professor Wick's 160% efficient furnace. .'.:. Stellar Skellar Poetry ~REMAINS Shredded remains of a plastic coffee cover swim in a pool of overspllled coffee and you rearrange them with a plastic pen cap (chewed in th.<:r middle). A tense·~snenee1ottaws·a moment· of -. . :. -';~-·~- .-. .·.-:::.~:::~::· -:~:~:.:~~~~;;~~::~_;_'~S~~~~::~~~t\ ;~_,;~:. :t:t1i11t~t:'t,: .·.· ~~-~i,. ~~{.: .:.h!.~<:Xt;J*iA(<\ :_, _,_ - : · .. (t~ot.~;iQfl¥., ,¥:puJL $a{;f;J~)sp~'6}tn··,w·or(f. r'~$ins bra~~ o~r:the ·h&art·th~t·Ite~·:h~r;e·-~nr~tred. , By DINA SCHWEITZER It was 8:20 p.m. on Tuesday, February 7, and I was Skellar bound to enjoy a comfortable hour of poetry readings from members on the Idol committee. As I neared the Skellar back door, I reached for the door knoh and peered into the window; suddenly, a rush of ambiance fell over me. T'hc Skellar had been transformed into a troubadour cafe, candle Get an opinion Get a clue. Read Concordiensis News Analysis, Page Two Union Does King David Honegger's King David will be performed Saturday evening, February 18, at 8 p.m. at the Union College Memorial Chapel with the Union College Choir, the Wellesley College Choir, Worcester Polytechnic Institute's Glee Club and the Glens Falls Symphony Orchestra. Hugh Allen Wilson will conduct, David Lloyd, former head of the opera department at J ulliard in New York City, is the narrator. Carol Randles, alto; Jim Pouillot of Lake George Opera, tenor; aad AIIn Tanner, soprano are the soloists. This is the first appearance of the Glens Falls Symphony Orchestra in the captial district. Tickets are $10.00 and will be available at the door.(No charge to those with Union College I.D. for the Memorial Chapel concert.) King David will be performed the following day, Sunday, February 19 at the Glens Falls High School at 3 p.m. Tickets are $15.00 The three schools will perform King David for the last time at the National Cathedral in Washington, DC on Febmary 26, Sunday afternoon at 4 p.m. For further information, please contact the Department of the Arts at Union College. lit and sufficiently equipped to satiate anyone's appetite. An assortment of food and drink kept everyone occupied us our audiennce blew in with the wind; then we begun. Katie Boyd introduced u.s as the \regulars of the Idol,\ who traditionally meet in Carnegie on Wednesdays to discuss our work. Amongst a handful of guests eagerly awaking our spoken words, a single wooden chair awaited its seater. Val Sarwin, Jose Andrade, Craig Lyons, Melissa Bloom (an audience member), Katie Boyd and I rCJd several poems to our receptive gucsls. Tht' hour wound down, cigarcuc smokl' lingered over candle lit tables and we delivered our !ahem; of love. It was 9:35 p.m. and all had been read, hut as I glanced around the room I knew this was just the beginning ol many more evenings lo come. A&E Briefs Capital Rep., Albany 462-4534 Tonight-March 19, 8:00. \Glengarry Glen Ross\: Pulitzer Prize winning play by David Mamet. $9.00 for students. Caffe Lena, Saratoga Springs 583-002 2 Thurs., 8:00. Open Mike Nile. Fri., Sat. 8:30. Oscar Brand: Folk historian, Musicologist, Radio personalit<y, Author. Proctor's, Schenectady 382-1 08 3 Tonight, 8:00. Mark Russel. Sat., 8:00. \Big Band Show.\ Call for tickets and prices. Half Moon Cafe, Albany Fri.: Jazz by \Cygnus.\ Sun.: Folk Music wiht Herb Carter College Center, Union Col.leg.e 436-0329 Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9, 11. Midnight Run. Wed. 7,9, 11. Arthur.

CAMPUS NEWS ====::=======-=.Visiting Sllllt-ins .. Any CLUB NEWS Merton Tapes - Friday, Feb. 17 at noon, all are welcome to bring a brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton Tape in CC404B. Overnight Retreat Friday, February 17 at 5 p.m. to Saturday, February 18 at 5 p.m. at 1630 Nott Street. Plan now to make a retreat for Lent. Theme: S,piritual Growth and Self-Concept. To help us become aware that a positive self-image is the basis of Union student who wishes to · visit a shut-in on a regular basis during these dreary winter months, please contact Gerri . Borne 372-3381 .. Morning prayer contmues on weekdays in Mobil Lounge (4th floor CC) from 8:15 8:35a.m. A Plateful of Questions, an informal participatory discussion grotlp, holds its second event on Tuesday in Mobil Lounge from 11:45 - 12:30. Co-spoa·sorcd by CPM and Delta Psi Delta. loving acceptance of others and •. ~-~-~---'-'--,-~ a necessary condition for_ , Join us for a midweek Lenten becoming open to oneself, to ve..c;;pers service of song, silence others and to God. A donation · and candlelig h.t in Mobil of $5 when you register with Lounge on Wednesday from • 4:00 - 4:30 p.m. Sr. Joan. Monday Night Suppers February 20th. at 5 p.m. in CC203 either use your meal plan or bring your own and join Professor Ed Craig, Engineering Department for conversation and an informal presentation on: \The Changes that Vatican li Brought to His Experience of Church.\ All welcome. Catholic Adult Video Education Series Tuesdays ~rom 4:30 - 5 p.m. in Room 204 of the Colleee Center. St. Joan will provide · Bible study takes place in CC205 on Tbtltsday from 11:30 · 12:45. Please bring your own lunch or bring a tray in from the Upj)erclass Dining • Room. We are fi11ishing up a study on Biblical dreams and visions. All are welcome. Sunday worship takes place in Mobil Lounge from 6:00 6:45 p,m. CLUB ANNOUNCEMENT: \Photo Club Meeting\ 7:30 Tlmsday February 16- Room 409 College Center. =======:::::!===1. he'll have to rneet yau at ~he PERSONALS fonnal. But don't worry, he'll betllerd Stillman, Happy, Happy Birthday -. . Remember, Presmo's watch- ing, . Go to Bath!!!. Go to Bath!!! Go toBath!H Beth, -Love,Lina This is it! Your towels on the left and my towels on the right, otherwise, you're outta there in the spring. Lina' Helene, Coper's booked a late flight, Brand, I have-a new list .. .it's for all the things you do for me .. .I do appreciate it! LoveLina , Sushi,· Sushi, Sushi.. .. Oh, where can yotl find sushi at 10:00 p.m. on a Monday night? At Garcia's, no cooking tab~es but fun none-the-less. Consult your 8-ball! ! Silby, Vogel and Kinom, \TRAIL ENDS -. EXIT HERE' Oh well, it was definitely worth the 1 mile hik~ back to Mt. Snow. Sweeney J ,,. ' \Michael have you been drin.Iti,ng? I smell alcohol in the car.\ Kath, Perhaps we'll have something to celebrate after tomorrow night Is it 14 months? Ei To All the DG Pledges who helped me on Monday: , Sue, Amy, Synnove, Lisa M.; Olessia, Rena, and Kate K. You were great. Annette Lynn W:' Hope you had a Happy 21st! Love, Amy & Shawna CLOTHING- DRIVE sponsored by . GAMMA PHI BETA ' -When: February 20-24 Please donate clothes to the needy by leaving them in the boxes marked CLOTHING DRIVE' in your laundry rooms. Thank you for your support. . an opportunity for students to update and discus.s faith issues wtth the Apostlc.-s Creed as a guide. Tuesday, Feb. 21st, \Holy Spirit: The Breath of God\-Part I. All welcome. Attendance at prior sessions not nceessary. BLOOM COUNTY by .Berke Breathed Confirmation This spring, Bishop Hubbard will administer the Sacrament of Confirmation in St. John the Evangelist Church. Union students arc invited to participate. Any Union student who has not been confirmed, may contact Sr. Joan 404B College Center who will arrange meetings to assist students in their preparation. Tutoring - Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Ajdes and Reading on a one~ to- one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 386-4353. Folk Group - All singers and musicians: interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m .. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in .the church to rehearse. DO YOU NEED HELP . WITH 810·16 OA 18? COME TO 810 BACK UP EVery Tuesday Night a :00-1 o :00 pm (In the room across from Biolog·y Office) }{/ MR JON6b. I~ f!ERG FOK THE3 rtK6r QORYl.€ .~------------~~ .•. ;:~ ·-- J

-z::::c::::=e======· ·=- ~:-1 ·goes around~ especially the circulation ill our room. oearDeh, 'PERSONALS To 1523 VanVranken- Happy Valentine's Day to4 romantic women~ Love, HMIT Happy Valentine's Day • To the four wonderfUl women at 1063 Universi.ty! Luscious Lynda Lou. Happy 21st Birthday. Love K.L. Representative St.anley of MA Jackie, Happy V-Day! I hope you enjoyed dinner. Tom- Watch out for those ceiling tiles. they might accidentally collide with your bead. -J. Throat Amy- I'm really excited about getting to know you. It's going to be great. Love, your big sister, Danan Michele Martin. HAPPY ANNIVERSARY! · Now do I get to come to the wedding. Delta Love, Amy. Gamma Phi's: Have fun at the game Saturday! Seeking revenge Gladys? Yes - Now it's your turn to leave. What comes around, l .know the work is tough but . hang in there. Remember- Sheila, I know we share everything, but this is getting ridiculous! ,I · Friday nite celebration! Kibbles TOYOTA· P~lqTS AND SERVICE; l Toyota Quality Serv~ce OIL CHANGE WITH. FILTER $19~95 with· Coupon ' Is there a big lake near Chicago? BA'HAI Temple or Bust!· AT: Have a great week! Don't spend all of your time job/school hunting - enjoy yourself a little (not too much.!). I expect a postcard! I'll miss you! Mild, Chocolate Takusan domo aligato. -LM. M. 1 · •includes up to 5 quarts of oil and genuine Toyota double·filteril1g oil .filter. •complete under-the hood check Qf all belts; hoses. and _fluid ~eve Is. . . ' Todd Schwartz - Yay! Your lstpersonal! And I'll bet you thought I'd forget! Enjoy! L-----------·------~--------------- TOYOTA QUALITY _ .. ·who could ask for anrthing ,more Kathy ~-------------------~------~------· Ricer, \Please come to Boston before the spring time\ Get here now, pledge ... and you are staying til Monday! \ I ' \ \ . \ ,\ S!udent .10% · D1scount . with coupon Mad&Barrie Spike Nyhus, Congrats on graduating from kindergarten. Welcome to the Big People's World. Happy 21st. MAD Stench, Did you make it out of the \\JA!'-HED: 5TUDEI\l T.S AN p'll F.ACULTL{ PUT 11'\1 .JAIL ON \=EB~VAQ\f zr~'O'ld2.zuv · FOr\:>· ' \. ' TR\ DELTA$ Fl RS T ANN \J~A L JA)L AND ,SAl L ~NSEJ<t: D B'j: iME AM0< \CAN LANCER 9::'Gl€11.( ·. Po~1r Ml$6. niE . oPPOI<liJNtT'{ ' T<l SEE. ?'{OUR. ' '· F:R.Ie:N~ il+!<OWJ'Ii . IN JAIL !l I. _.. LOOK: to s:gh li\P 1 • . 1 on Fe;b. l \ 4'lt- 20 nt \ IN 11-lf I (Ou.E6E I GI:NTEIZ_ · .·Homesick? ·Can't sleep at·night? Let. Theta Delta Chi~ TUCK YOU IN! bathroom this year? Judy, Congratulations - those acceptances are .really rolling in. Love, Dingy TP, Only 3 days lefL Sorry! Don~t worry, I'll still be your friend- even when you're old and gray! Love ya, BJ Hey Amy, HAPPY BIRTHDAY! From the 2nd most annoying person to you. Stillman: Happy 20th l! You are the best friend I would ask for. Have the best day ever. I love you. CoUl,\tney Bark Eater, Nice run in with the tree. Maybe Calgon will take you away. As always, the - bo's By Union Students., About Union Students, For Union Students: SHADES OF GREY Sunday - 8 p.m. - Petter Lounge, Monday - Fox Lounge Tuesday - Davidson Lounge Wednesday SS0-16 By Union Students, About Union Students, For Union Students: SHADES OF GREY Come see how others see college life. By Union Students, About Union Students, For Union Students. SHADES OF GREY Improvisational Theatre to bring about campus awareness. Good Luck at States ... All \U\ Maddog Swimmers! - Jcn (T) I Jonesy- Thanks for the (mainely) great weekend ... Let's do it again sometime! Your Biker Woman Dear Becky and Stephie - How are t,he cheap S'Yeet wine and the tequila? We iniss you guys lots. - Can't wait 'til spring term! Love, P.P., L.B., K.B., G.K., A.T., S.B. ·. Beth Aubrey - Happy 21st on Saturqay. Hope y.ori kaye fun . Hap~ Birthday Am~ Goldstein. · $1.00 Donation gets you a bed-time story and a tuck in just like home ... well alniost. To b~neflt the American Cancer Society Page 19 Happy Belated 21st Birthdays to Nancy Conway and Linda Hynes. Hope you had good ones. Waken' Bake In Beautiful Negri!, Jamaica. Unbelievable spring break package starting at $439. Call Sun Splash Tours at l-800-426- 771 0. To the 1st Stooge, Thanks for the goodies! You'r super. We love you! You did brighten our bad week! The Other 2 Stooges Tonia, Thanks sooo much for the flowers. It's an honor to have a friend that is thoughtfuL Thank you. The ladiics at 742. Dear Mr. \Innocent\, Could've fooled me! Saint Kathryn Lisa S., HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! Wishing you the best. Love, Hope. To the SDTs and their dates at the \Joke\ Table, \Take me to your leader!\ What a memorable formal! We certainly had a great table. KATIE- EELY, To the -ictator of flip the cup! Remember 7:00p.m. curfew tonight! Love, Wendy Maggie, 45 minutes!! North DclLas Abby n' Colleen- You guys are the greatest!! Thanks for including us and don't be afraid to let me know if you want it to be sisters and pledges on] y. Becky Brothers of TD Chi - Late Nights - Drunk and Dancing on tables! Thanks for awesome Wednesday nights! · Luv, North Dcitas Sean and Ray, Isn't that a seccurity light by Shaeffer Library? I thought so. MOTO MeHs~iit. , . . So tell me ... what are periscopes used for in double decker buses? . ' Your downstairs roomie (ex) Rob D, Sorry about the homework. We owe you iOpoints. We.still loy,e ·you: · JandA Pammie- Happy Almost B.irthday! Thanks for making mine Special · Prince Charming, LOO The shadows are getting longer and the time is drawing near. Princess{AKA) Sleeping Beauty Clark BRD You are an absolute doll! What would Lois do without you? J,.,Qve, Lois (AKA) Jessica Rabbit P.S. Mark says to clean your room!

I Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS Februar-y lti, 1'989 THE NEWMAN CLUB Cordially invite all to attend a LENI'EN REPAST · A dinner skillfully prepared by John Ciardullo and Bill Boyd Sun., Feb. 26, 1989 5:00p.m. (corner of Nott Street and Seward Place) Please RSVP by Fti., Feb. 24. John 372-0979; Bill 372-5120 Free Admittance Informal attire prefered (Vegetarian option available) REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW Schaffer Library is now soliciting recommend- ations relative to the Reappoinm ent Review for Assistant Professor Jean Sheviak, Head of Technical Processes and Online Systems Coordinator. All interested students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to contact Ann Seemann, Librarian at x6277. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . TilE MODERN i LANGUAGES . . DEPARTMENT I$. l lNTRODUCJNG.A-NEVf ! co~· ; Introduction to . Portug~se: A FirSt : Course in the L!inguage : of Brazil; Portuguese 10. : A course in- basic skills • which will allow beginning • students to learn the Portuguese language the way it is spoken in B.razil .• BraziJia:o. cu-lture will be • studied through the use of ~ newly developed videotapes as well as native speaking teaching assistants . Recommended for all students with an interest in E Brazil and contempo,rary Brazilian culture .. M:-W-:F 2:00-3:05 ~ PRO:F. ~ J. WEINSTEIN CML,) STUDENT OFF CAMPU.S EMPLOYME,NT ' Computer Science MaJor Part time postion available for implementation of a g.raphical user interface in 24 bit color on Macintosh II equipped with special graphics board and 19 inch SONY trinitron monitor .. -fam,iliarity with \C .. required -familiarity with Apple, Macintosh, Toolbox a plus. Position open immediately. If intereseted, send resumH to: Marcia L. Lynn, Vice President of Personnel, Visware Inc. 236 State Street,· Schenectady, NY t2305 J I / Any Questi.ons Call 393-1236 ~E CA~ HELP KEEP THE BEAST AT BAY ······-----------------------------------~------------~ ; ,r jssoo OFF & 1 FREE VISIT; WITH THE PURCHASE OF ANY TANNING MEMBERSHIP PLAN Valid With This V.I.P. Couoon Thru 3-1-89 , UNDER NEW MANAGEMENT SUN CENTER, 2003 TANNING SALON Capital Plaza 1925 Curry Rd. 2nd Floor MEMBERSHIP PLANS • 6 SESSIONS $18.00 • 12 SESSIONS $30.00 • 20 SESSIONS $40.00 • 30 SESSIONS $50.00 • SINGLE SESSIONS $4.00 355-5454 NO MEMBERSHIP FEES , , , , , ,. ,. ,. , , , , ·\' ,, ,. , , , ., , , \ ,, ,. , , BRING COLLEGE I.D. FOR DISCOU\TS ON : TANNING LOTIONS. .: ~ , ~-----~-----------------~--~----------------~~-~---~-~. THE PQ:LJTICAL . SCIENCE SPEAI(ERS S'ERIES PRESENTS; H. MARK REOLOFS PROFESSOR OF PO!..ITI.CS • NEW YORK UNIVERSITY TOPIC: \Liberation Theology:_ The E.ecovery of Bibical Radicalism\ DATE: Thurs., February 16,1989 TIME: 3:30p.m . LOCATION: College Center, Room 410 Everyone IS Invited To Attend Clearaac,e -··Sale· 1988 Yearboo'k f,inal Sa1e! Reduced price of · $15.00 for last year's edition . Get them in CC • • - ,.? 408 with Mrs . Marra. Cash or , check, but hurry whHe ·supplies last. PAUL'S N.Y. Plzz:eHI:A , Pizza, footlong subs, calzones, $1.00 off: 8 Cljt & 12 cut with toppings for Union students and faculty only 823 MCCLELLAN .STREET:; SCHENECTADY, NY 12304 382~8210 -ASK ABOI:JTFREE DEI.,IVERV C. Demereski !7\aluo--& f!Tkrt&b (.518} 374-4000 \Express it witli Flower$\ 96 Jay Street NATURESCAPE DESiGNS (Cor, of Jay & Liberty St.) Schenectady, N.Y, 12305 MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE, INC. 349 Anthony Street MIGHAELW. CYDYLO (518) 377-2268 (~4 Hr. Towing· 374·10_67) Schenectady, NY STUDY FOR ONE YEAR DR E'OR ONE OR TWO TERMS TN 'I OXFORD Several colleges of Oxford University have invited TheW~hington lntematiqnal Studies Cen!~c to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two lertns, Lower Jun.or s-tatus is reqwr~d. and graduate study is avaliaole, Students arc ditecllv enrolled in their colles;es and rt\ceiv\ tr.lnsclipts from their Oxford college: this is NOTa program conducteci'.by a lJ .s_ Col· k·g., in Oxford, A special· summe<\ session ·is directed by W!SC INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WJSC offers summer internships with Congress, With the White B.ouse, with the media and .,;th lhirik tanks. Gtlvemment and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level gm'enunem officlais. who are also scholars. and ·l:>Y experienced joum;:JU;ts. Similar ·opportunities In public policy internships a:re offered (With academic credit) in London (Fall. Sprlrtg and Summer) wnsc The Was!Ungton International $tudles Center 214 Mas.\\chusotts Ave\ N.E. Sulte 230 Washington, O,t, 200o2 (202) 547~3275 EO/AA

SPORTS Sick Of Eating In W~st? · Ho·st a student for· Scholars Progra~., February 23 and 24 and get a great meal. (For FREE!) Contact Ann or Diana at the Admissions Office Ext. 6112 '··- • .. . Mike·Sir:pwfch prepares to ··put' .the shot~ WANTED: STUDENT WO~RKERS FOR Student Security & Safety Jobs COLLEGE WORK/STUDY •' . AND NON- .. WORK/STUDY ARE ELIGIBLE. * POSITIONS AVAILABLE IMM'EDIATELY* TO APPLY COME TO THE SECUTITY & SAFETY OFFICE. ---·-----. Page 21 Men's Hoop Has An Up And Down Week By GREG GOETZ Last week, the Union College Men's Basketball team played two grunes that showed the conkast between when they play to their potential, and when they don't. · On Wednesday, they travelled to Hartwick and lost by the score of 73-57. Senior center Doug Gregory scored Union's first three points to give the Dutchmen the only lead they enjoyed the-whole game. In the first half, Hartwick had two large scoring runs during which they held Union scoreless. Besides these two hot streaks by Hartwick,. the game was evenly played. The cushion that these provided was too much for the DutChmen to overcome. The leading scorer was sophomore Dave Sussman with 12 points, followed by senior Scott Gibbs with 10 points. This loss evened the Dutchmen's record at 8-8. Last Friday night, against the visiting El~ira Soaring Eagles, the hoopsters rebounded wih an exhilarating 87-77 victory in double overtime. In tlm first half, it was a seesaw battle with both teams unable to assume real control. Excellent foul shooting kept the Dutchmen close as they were behind by four points at halftime. In the second half, the Dutchmen played extremely well to knouhe score at 61 at the end of regulation. The Union fans came to. life as the team began to outplay the Soaring Eagles. If they had given them a real home court advantage the whole game, then it might not have had to go to overtime. In the first overtime, both teams played tentatively, and the second overtime was needed to decide the outcome of the game. In this period, the Dutchmen simply overpowered Elmira and shot down the Soaring Eagles. The Dutchmen shot 80% from the foul line for the game, and got superb .three- point shooting by guards Steve . Nicolas and Jerry Brcsda and forward Sussman. ·senior tri- caption Gregory played an outstanding game, scoring 21 points, and he also had 5 steals. Four other Dutchmen had double digit perforrtlances in this game that saw Union get back over the .500 mark. Running Dutchmen ·Strongly. At Union Finish ' . . Open By HANS SCHWARZ The Union College Men's Track team was in good form at the Union Open held at the Memorial Fieldhouse last Friday evening. For the Running Dutchmen, this meet was a gauge of the progress from their work thus far for importan't upcoming meets. Competing were representatives from SUNY Albany, StJN¥ Cobleskill, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, as well as many able independents. Outstanding r.esults were achieved by numerous Dutchmen. Senior Steve Hayes finished first in the 400 meters with a time of 55.3 seconds. Union swept the top three places in the 500 meters with fine performances recorded 'by Jeff Simkins in a time of 1:10.5, closely followed by freshman Tom Frisbie and Rich Zembeck. With a strongput of 13.76 meters, Matt Guyette took first in the shot, leading the '·,'.IIL1IIl throwers to a good evening. Also, in the 3000 meter raccwalk, junior Jim Campoli blew away the competition with a blazing first pJace time of 13:39. This meet helped give the team the boost of confidence it needed to feel strong going into challenging late-season and post-season competition. The Running Dutchmen will be sending squads to Dartmouth and Southern Connecticut to compete this weekend. ' ; Bill Sedergren is Union is top scoring defenseman, UNION WILL HOST THE WOMEN'S STATE SWIM MEET THURSDAY, FRIDAY and SATURDAY Come Out and Support Union Swimmers § CL w _, u:::

Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS Febr.uary 16, 1989 <!Inncnriliensis SPORTS The Track To Success By SUSAN KERSCH and WILL SHIELDS The Cross Country Ski Club at Union has expanded with leaps and bounds over the past few years. With winter on the way, a record breaking season appeared on the horizon. Yale, RIT, West Point, Clarkson,. Colgage, U of R, and Syracuse University. Meets are held on weekends throughout the winter and consist of two events, the individual race and the relay. The individual race is 15k for the men and IOk for the ski experience. This weekend the team travels to Lake Placid to race on the Olympic course for the regional meet. This course, as on.e might expect, will be _a true test for all the skiers. Having passed their Schenectady colds on to the The Cross Country Ski Team at Craftsbury · Unfortunately, winter has taken more than its sweet time arriving. Despite this constant opposition by the forces of nature the Union Nordic team has still kept on its feet. Re-activated three years ago the young team has been steadily gaining ground against some of the region's finest schools. Compeilng in the NCSA Mid-East National Conference Union races against women while the three-skier other teams,. the fully recovered relay consists of 1 Ok and Sk Union skiers expect to do very legs respectively. , well in Lake Placid, especially Last weekend both men and against annual rival, Yale. women's teams represented The Nordic Ski Club travels Union at Syraeuse, one of the several nights a week to local few places with snow on the ski centers to practice. These ground. Although most skiers trips are open to the entire were sick t-o some degree, college community free of cost everyone still managed to have and obligation. If you are respectable times. Kara Merrill interested in joining the team and Willie Steven,son deserve to race or just for some free special mention for their fine lessons, contact Susan at 370- showing in their first collegiate 6876 or Will at 374.:8812. \· Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER I always wanted to say this, and after this past weekend, I finally figured out how and where, thanks to Pete Vescey and his column in Tl1e New York Post. This past weekend, basketball fans were treated to \A Heaping Helping of Hoop du Jour.\ (I love it!) Houston, Texas was the home of the NBA's All-Star Weekend. On Saturday, it was the Old-Time Stars' moment to shine, along with today's long bombers and frequent flyers. On Sunday, the 39th Annual AIJ-Star Game showcased the elite of the elite, and gave us 48 minutes of high-scoring \WOW\ Calvin Murphy hit a J-point shot at the buzzer to give the West Old Timers the victory over the East. Then Dale Ellis of Seattle won the 4th Annual 3-Pont Shoot-out, defeating Chicago's Craig Hodges. Ellis' victory ended Larry Bird's streak as he became only the second player to win the contest. With no Michael Jordan and no Dominique Wilkens, a longshot skyed higher than the rest to win the Slam Dunk Contest and bring home the $20,000. Kenny Walker of the New York Knicks, who, incidently, was entered as Jordan's replacement, dazzled the crowd and defeated the Portland's Clyde Drexler in the finals. Walker won the contest that he had dedicated to his father's memory, who had passed· away last week. Enough of this play-by-play stuff. I am here to editorialize and insult, not to recap in such detail. If you wanted that, you could read Pete V escey. What was supposed to be an All-Star game turned out to be the Utah connection with a few other guys thrown in for good measure. Karl Malone and John Stockt~n. along with towering Jazz teammate Mark Eaton, led the Western Conference All- Stars to a 143-134 win over the East. Malone, who scored 28 points, was awarded the game's MVP. It was a good choice, but what would he have done without his 6'1 n point guard?!? John Stockton received some news last week. He was Magic Johnson's substitute, and then he was named his replacement. Because Magic partially tore one of his hamstrings and is out indefinitely, Stockton was .picked to statt the game, and ended up as the only true point guard on the s.quad. This was the best news that Karl Malone could have beard. \The Mailman\ as Malone is referred to, was ready to deliver, and did he ever. He soared, scored, and slammed wih great frequency. But it seemed like every time he touched the ball, it was off a brilliant pas.s from the jitterbug. Stockton scored 11 points, had 5 steals, and added 17 assists. Nine of those assists came in the firt quarter, setting an All-Star Game record These two guys were awesome, but they were not alone. Philadelphia's Ch¥les Barkley and Detroit's Isaiah Thomas showed some moves of their own. Along with Michael Jordan's 28 points, these three guys tried to bring the East back from a 31-point deficit. It was cut all the way down to 7, but Malone, and· Dale Ellis, who scored 27 of his own 7 put the lights out on the East as they converted one Stockton pass after another for scores. It's too bad, really. The All- Star Game is so great to watch, and the players love to play it, because of the improvisation on the court. Why don't they set up a best of five or something? That way all the guys get to play quality minutes, and the fans get five times as much fun. Sounds good to me, but who am I to say?!? Certainly not Pete Vescey! Two Uni,o.n Women Place 1 st And. 2nd ·~ 1f1 State In Shot Put 'By S. SllORT . Last Friday night, the Union track team hosted the annual Union Open. The women had just come .off a two-week conditioning period .. during which they had not raced. So~ 'fhey · were very eager to · dominate the meet and show : off their hard work. And that's · · exactly wllat they did as Onion sw~pt all but two of the twelv€ events and left their competitors in awe. , The night started off as the weight women took the stage and began Union's dominance. ln the shot put, ·Alb Goldschmidt, Stephanie • Woodard and Val Sarwin threw . they way to a frrSt; second and third respectively. However, this was just not enough .for . -AH:x and Steph as Alix smashed the school record with a throw of ll.58m and proceeded to place herself -rinmber one in the state of New . York for the shot Steph was not far behind with a heave of 11.49, establishing herself as num:ber two in the state. And, as if this was not enough, the . three attacked the 20-,pound weight, tbrow .. ~·~ephanie finished first this time with a throw of 8. 72m, followed close behind by Alix and V a1 with thr()WS of 8.17m · and 6.9m respectively. These w.omen are crushing anyone who comes in their way and leaving no survivors. .. In the running events. Lynne Erdman again ran a strong a11d smart race -as she strategically fooled her opponents and finished first with a time of 5:14. Then, Lynne came back . to run a race that she had noever run before, namely the 500rn dash. And, in this. SQO, she not only won the race with a time of 1:27.5, but qualified for the ECAC meet wnile she was at i,t. Liz Dobbs, not far behind Lynne with a time of i 1:29.7, just misse~l' qualifying for ECAC's by .2 seconds. Liz, in her 50m hurdle race, ran so fast that we had trouble finding her o.p.popents . when· she finished. Not only did she finish firs~· in her race but slle also qualified for the ECAC meet wbich made her day complete. Rika Poor, who's been, a standout all season lollg, .continued het trend as she ran a quick SOm dash, qualifying for the ECAC meet with a time of 7.1 .seconds (OJ:- was it 54 sec<mds?) Then, Rika retumed to finish frrst in the 300m dash with a time of 45 .o seconds. Denise Mc~llaFI w.as a. ~ls>se; second in the. 3·00 as she finished with a time of 46.8. · Denise. also sprinted her way to a fust place finish in the 400m run, barely·. missing t11e qualifyin:g ·mark for tile upcoming State meet. M()g Parsons, .who last year was- strictly~ a 50m or 40Qm runner, has tumed over a new leaf since she enjoyed cross country so m~ch. On Friday; she destroyed; the competition in tb.e 80Dm run, finishing first with a tirne of 2.29, missing the qualifying mark for States by only one second.· Sandy Anselment smolced around the track as she fin!slled first in the lOOm run with a time of 3:14. This ma:rk enabled her to qualifyy for the · EOA<.i meet by a pretty large margin. Deb Danforth, wbo had· 'b<~en on 'injured reserv~· -since the very first meet, mace an· i:tri'pressive comeback as slie finished third in the lOOm with a time of 3:25. In the fiiial · event of this fun-filled day, Unian's 4X400m relay team beat the competition by over a lap as they finished first witll a time of 4:42.5. The lady tracksters are now finished with their regular season play. They now move into the CTC Championshi:ps . this weekend, the New Yo:rk State ·Championships the following weekend, and finally the ECAC meet after that. It's been a great season for the women and they hope to conclude it with style .at the upcoming meets .. Sign up in the College Genter and West for the THETA DELTA-CHI Raquetball Tournament to benefit the National Arthritis Foundation $5.00 Donati()n puts you in the running fur: Tickets for CATS at Proctors $20 Meal at the Manhattan Exchange A haircut and hlowdry at Shenanigans 1 of 4 Domin~'s Pizzas $8 services at Charles ll Hair Salon $15 gift certificate at The Open Door books 1 of 10 pizzas from I Lov:e NY Pizza Lunch for 2 at Four Seasons 1 .of 2 12-cut pizzas with 2 toppings from Castelo's 1 oflO Jim Dandy Sundaes from Friendly's 1 of 5 ice cream cones from Ben & Jerry's AND THE THRILL OF VICTORY!!

I. . . \ CONCORDJENSIS February 16, 1989 Page 23 ) . Athlete of the Week . By .MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports Editor 'this: week's Athlete of the Week is women's basketball player Wendy Vincent. Wendy has played in every game thus three games yet remaining. As a freshman, she scored 173 points in 22 games and was --· bounced back nicely. H~ad Coach Bonnie Gehling had words of high praise for Wendy. \Wendy does her job and plays smart.\ She also spoke of how Wendy is a true team leader through her work . ethics andoverailattitude., \She • ~- plays excellent defense and is • ·~ not afraid to take the charg~. . ·~ Wendy has proven that she ts · ~- capable of playing at the fat thif.tseason and is the third· leading scorer on the team. In . two games last week, against Hartwick and Alf:red, Wendy had 10 and 13 p.oints respectively. She is also the leading free-throw shooter, - · making 75% from the line. Overall,. Wendy bas averaged 9 · points a 'gam.e for the Dutchmen. Wendy is a third,. year s~r on· the teani and is · @ collegiate level,\ said Gehling. ~· The coach went_ on. to prove -~ these_ claims; Gehling has :~ already named Wendy a co- a. captain for next year along named the Outstanding Female with Gina Prok:osch. Freshman. A.thl~te. . Congratulations go out to on 'track to have her best season ever. She already has 144 points this sea$on with Last season, Wendy missed Wendy and the· entire team and 11 games due tea broken bone coaching staff of the women's in her hand. 'fhis year she has basketball team. ~Ski Team. Striving For Eastern Championships Qy COLI)'i~INGERSOLL Entering the last week of the '8:9. ski · season~ the Union College .menis and women's ski teams are still in contention of making the Eastern Chatnpio~~hip.s,_ JI~ld _ Jn Waterville · Valley, New Hampshire. The women's team, presently in sixth place out of the 17 teams in their league, shows strong contention, only one place; oqt. They will have to push ahead of Clarkson University · this weekend in .Buffalo in order to make the Eastems. Followjng last year's exceUe.nt performance by the men's team for a fourth place tie with Syracuse, they stand in eighth place out -of the 1S-team field in which they compete. Among some of the top competitive teams both Union's men's and women's teams comp.ete against are Syracuse University, Alfred University, RIT, RPI; and A.rm.y in the men's and Colgate in the women's. Having gradu~ted only one senior last year, the women's team returned stronger than ever this year with veteran skiers J~<>bin Raff, -senior and team .captain; Alison Pallotta and Amy Kraeger, both juniors. Robin and Alison have had a good season, normally placing in the top 15 out of the ,85-racer ·field. However, the women's team also received several new freshmen who have been showing strong performances. Among them are Beth Foley; Beth Marris, and Kirsten LaBrie. Beth Foley has performed patticularly well, now third for the women's tearn. Tbe Union men's team graduated their top two skiers last year, but this proved not to be a problem as team captain ·Mark Haughton, senjor, has raced well. Seniors Blake Henderson and Colin Ingersoll, :after having a decent last year, returned this year racing very well, skiing second and third for the men's team. Other retuming veterans to the men's team are Pat Rowe and Steve Rowe, both sophomores~ In the first week of the season the Union College men's and women's ski tearns travelled- to the Syracuse Invitational, where they would hold the slalom on Saturday and the giant. slalaom on Sunday, although there has not been much snow an season. Both teams stood well after the first day of the slalom. The women's team captured third place, just edged out by ,Syracuse and Alfred. Union eventually took a fourth place overail for the weekend. The top three finishers were Robin Raffin_l6th place, Beth Foley 'in 22nd place, followed closely by Alison Pallotta in 24th place. The men's team finished in a moderate eighth place for the weekend, with Mark Haughton in 12th place, Colin Ingersoll in 24th, and Blake Henderson in 29th. During the following weekend, Union travelled to the Army Invitational, which took p-lace at Hunter Ski Resort. Both teams did not have a good weel<:end, finishing poorly, illthough this would not hurt either team's chance of making the Eastern Championships, since each team is allowed to drop their worst offive races. Both men's and women's teams rebounded the following Weekend at the RPI Invitational., held at West Mountain. With an absolutely beautiful weekend ahead of them, the women's team captured sixth place in the slalom with an· outstanding perfo:rmance by freshman Beth Foley in ninth place on Saturday .. The men's team skied to seventh place; although they were in third piace after the first run. Racing extremely well for the nien were Mark Haughton, who captured ninth <ltnncnrbtensis SPORTS SPORTS -ACCORDING TO GOET'Z By GREG GOETZ It's about time, I can wear ·my New York Knicks cap without being laughed at or spit on. I bought it right after Patrick Ewing was drafted; figuring that when they fi11ally became a 'hot' team in the NBA I'd be able to wear. it and . not heat any jeers. For about four years, the . blue and orange hat has sat in my closet, where it has gathered dust. While I ha.ve waited for the right moment to excavate it from under my dirty clothes, there have been some bright moments in the past four years that have tempted me to dust it off; such moments include beating the Celtics in a thrilling overtime game a few Christmas Days ago, or Mark Jackson and PatriCk Ewing garnishing Rookie Of The Year honors. But the hat sat where it was because the Knicks couldn't live up to their potential then, and were still a doonnat. I've decided that now is the time to find that hat. This year the Knicks have maintained a solid lead over the rest of the Atlantic Division, which they will win. Madison Square Garden has once again become a loud, exciting place to watch a professional.basketball game. Since the days of Hubie Swimmers Continu-ed from back page the 500 freestyle, the 200 I.M., the state record-bolder in the 400 I.M. (4:47.50), and the state record-holder in the 1:00 I.M. (1:02.17). Her 97 po!.nts topped the individual scorers. Others to keep an eye on are RIT's Nancy Dowdall, winner of the 100 and 50 butterfly, RPI's Darcie Hammer, who place, and right behind him, Colin Ingersoll in twelfth place. Both men and women finished only a couple of seconds behind the top racers in the slalom event. On Sunday, both teams came to the mountain with a \No Prisoners\ attitude. A relatively op(m giant· slalom course had been set, making the race very competitive. The women's team finished in sixth place, ::2 giving them an amazing fifth LD· overall for the weekend. The ~ men's team captured fifth place ~ in the giant sblom giving b them a great overall finish of if sixth fot the weeke~d. Top finishers for the women were Alison Pallotta in an amazing lOth place; followed by Robin Raff in 18th place, and Beth Foley in 28th place. For the men, the top finishers were Brown, the Kniclcs llave played good defense. Now, Rick Pitino has brou15ht them to an even more intense and intimidating level on this side of the ball. He has also given them freedom to bomb away from three pointrange. In fact, they are on a record -setting pace in .this depitrtment. With the combination of these elements, the . arrival of rebounding moastcr Charles Oakley, rookie p_oint guard Rod Strickland and tile maturation of Ewing and others, the Knicks now possess one of the most dangerous teams in the NBA. They also .llav:e the NBA S'lam Dunk Champion, Kenny 'Sky' Walker, who is now supplying solid play after being a much ridiculed first round drafl pick in 1986. The possibility o.f the Knicks winnin,g .the· NBA crown this year is ;a distinct and welcome one. Whether or not they make it that far, I'H be able to don my Knicks hat without having to avoid the countless Celtic fans who 1 ve been riding high for a few , years. • • • won both the one and three meter diving events each of the last three seasons. and .William Smith's Kate Hendrickson who won the 1650 freestyle. Kavaney was Union's top finisher in last year's event as she placed second in both the 50 and 100 butterfly events, and third in the 200 fly. Mark Haughton in 16th place, Blake Henderson in 18th place, both with excellent performances, and Colin Ingersolll who finished in 24th place. Last weekend the Union Ski Team traveled out to Swain Mountain where Mark Haughton took &th in the slalom and 14th in the giant slalom. Alison Pallotta captured a 16th place in the giant slalom for the women. This weekend, the Union College Men's and Women's ski teams will trav-el to Buffalo and compete for the top five places. If successful they will head to the. Eastern Championships. A top four finish here will se11d them to the National Chafflpionships in Lake Tahoe. SUPPORT UNIO'N SPORTS

I . . . Union traveled to Ma,ine last weekend tor two games ·versus Colby and Bowdoin. They host S.t. Anselm on Saturday. 'The women•s ba$ket~an ,team hol~s an 8•1,0· re.cord. ;Their final home ,game is this. Saturday against Skidmore. February 16, 1989 WQm<?n's Swim Team Finis~h-es Season At 8-1 ; Ho·st 16- Team State Meet This Week By SPORTS INFORMATION BUREAU SCHENECTADY, N.Y.-- For the second consecutive season, head coach Susan Bassett has guided the v;ornen's swim team at Union College to an impressive 8-l ,record. However, according to Bassett, this year's mark was much more impressive th~n last year's because of the ll])graded ~chedule. She is also anxious to see her young sq~ad in action this Thursday, Friday, and Saturday when Union will host the New York State: Swim Meet. Trials for each day's events begin at 11 a.m. witll the finals set to start at 7 p.m. each night. Union finished its dual competition last week when it defeated homestanding. Albany State, 146-95. A mid·~eason loss to William Smith was the . lone blemish. Last y-e~r. a season-ending setback at Middlebury kept the Dutchwomen from perfection. \I'm very proud of what this team has accomplished tbe past two seasons,\ explained Bassetl, who posted a seven- year record of 69-20 at William Smith before joining Union's staff two summers ago. \All of the women have worked very hard. They've done everything I've asked of them a11d I'm anxious to sec them this week against the best comj)ctition that New York State has to offer.\ Cniun had its bcsl showing in the state meet last season when it finished 10th with 207.5 points. However. that was still a lung way aw~ty from the 867.5 points picked up by three-year defending champion Ithaca. The Lady Rombers, who placed second ill both 1984 and 85 before witming the last three titles, are again favored. \They've got five ret11ming seniors who picked up tile bulk of their points last year,:• explained Bassett. Ithaca. 5··2 this year, already has three swimmers who have qualified for the nationals. Senior Nancy Stapp, who returns as the state record-holder in the 200 breast (2:31.77)\ has qualified for national competition in the 200 breast, the 200 l.M. and the 200 free. Classmate Kelly Kisner, who won the 200 I.M. last year and finished second in individual points, has qualified for the 100 and 200 breast, and the 200 I.M. Sophomore Amy Robinson has qualified. for the 100 and 200 backstroke · competitions. Last season Ithaca set records in the 200 freestyle relay (1 :40.81) and the 400 medley relay (4:10.81). While Bassett points to the Bombers as a dear cut favorite to repeat, she feels that spots two through six are wide open. Hartwick, William Smith, St. Lawrence, Hamilton, and Union will make this one of the most hotly contested state meets in the last few seasons. Bassett points to the butterfly races as Union's top events and feels that the team is solid in everything else. Once more, the Dutchwomen own dual meet victories over Hartwick and Hamilton and that, along with the fact that they will be in their own pool, . will give the team a big confidence edge. . While Union docs not as yet have a national qualifier, BassctL feels that several of her women have an excellent opportunity during the state meet. Freshman Anne Glicksman has posted a 1:03 . .9 in the 1 00 backstroke and a 2:19.0 in the 200. She needs a l :03.4 and a 2:17.0 to qualify. Freshman Kerstin Dorse has posted a 4:52.0 in the 400 I.M. and will be looking to qualify at 4:49.0. Sophomore Kathy Kavaney (Albany) has a 1:02.8 in the 100 butterfly and is looking for a 1:01.0 while freshman Jeanne Cutrone (Scotia) has a 1:02.2 in the 100 fly. Union's 400 medky relay and 800 freestyle relay teams are also very close to qualifying. The 400 team of Glicksman, freshman Jennifer Joyce, Cutrone, and Kavaney have posted a 4:18.3 and need a 4:14.2. Meanwhile, the 800 team of Glicksman, Dorse, Butrone, and freshman Jennifer Halsdorf have swum an 8:18 and are loking for an 8:10. The team goes into the state meet already having set 17 of . 24 Union records. Bassett points to a stronger schedule, an outstanding freshman class, and a great deal of hard work by the entire team as reasons for Union's success this year. \Last year's s~ 1 record proved we're the best of the worst in New York State,\ she explained. \This year's 8-1 record proved that we're a solid, competitive club that is capable of competing over an entire season. We were good in November, we were good in January, and we've been good in February. This state meet will help us prove hOw far we've come in just two years. \This year's freshman class has enable dus to have the depth that is necessary to have a competitive team,\Bassett continued. \The women who were on last year's team have better Limes this season because they have been pushed by the freshmen. The internal competition has been c·xtrerncly positive and has made everyone better. I guess you could say that we not only added a taiented group of freshmen to a young and talented team, but we got the very best Out of everyone on the team. \The last question to be answered this year is how well these young women respond to the .challenges and pressures that a big. championship meet presents. We'll find out.;, Senior Jennifer White of St. Lawrence will be a swimmer to be dealt with again this season. She returns as the winner of Con1inued on page 23 Skati,ng Dutchmen, ·At 14- 6-1, Control Thei·r Own Fate For the Pl·ayo.ffs By MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports . Editor The Union .hockey team, after riding an eight game winning streak:, has suddenly found itself winless in its last four games. Despite .their recent slide, Union still holds a respectable 14-6-1 record and a win at home this Saturday against St. Anslem 'will place them high. in the final standings. The standings could be complicated by the results of Tuesday's game against Oswego. A victory by Oswego, who trails Union in the standing_!, could propel them past the Dutchmen in the playoff seedings. The Skating Dutchmen found themselves in this position with a disappointing road trip last weekend to Colby and Bowdoin. Against Colby, Union played well but was lleld to a tie largely due to the out.standing efforts of · the Mules goaltender. The Dutchmen were held scoreless through the first two .periods and did not get on the board until midway through the third period. With Union 011 the power play, Dan Gould took the puck .and drilled it into the net to tie the game. It w·as Gould's lOth goal of. the season, coming off a pass from Campbell. In overtime, Union continued to press, gettiag the better of the chances., but in the end had to settle for the tie. Coming off the tie against Colby, Union traveled to Bowdoin .where they faced a very quick and aggressive team. Although the final score .was 7- 2, it did not indicate the closeness of the game. Union haq several good chances to score, but were .unable to convert their efforts·into goals. Paul Sullivan and Terry Campbell each bad a g()al with boijl assists going to Dalton Menhall. Camp.bell's goal upped his team leading point · total to 33. With the Toumament bids corning out on Monday~ Union still holds its fate in tis own hands. A victory over Oswego and St. Anselm and a loss by Elmira to RIT and Plattsblltgh would put Union in position to firiish as high as second.

Vel. CXVIII, No; 14 Sch,enectady, Ne.w York ' ,, .- McNulty Reflects On First Year In U.S. Congress ·Unanimous Vote Of SAC To Lead To Strict Enforcement Of Housing Occ:upancy Po-licy 'Jllqzing Own Trail,' Despite Predecessor Stratton's Heavy, Shadow :By FlON;\ SJflJKRl ' Editor-In.Chief The thermostat 'in the · . . . CoUeg~ Center Auditorium • wasn•t working Wednesday the . · 15th, so newly-elected Cong.ressmart, Democrat Mike : · McNullty, gave his speech · '~Early Reflections of a New · Congressman-1! to a, small • audience in SS016. • Chair of the PoliticaJ · Science Department, Charles Tidmarch, · introduced the ,· congressman. Tidmarch gave a • brief political biography of Mr. · McNulty which he claimed most recently culminated in his , being \easily\ elected to the position of Congressman. He then noted that. McNq.lty hl.lc.i . the ... dubiottS distinction t>i replacing ari 'i~foil.\ McNulty's dynamic predecessor, Samuel · Stratton. has been the focus of . Capital District attention for the past three decades. the young-looking McNulty took the stage and began his speech by good hurnoredly . 'correcting' Tidmarcl) pp two points. The first was that his election was certainly not \easy\ from his standpoint. He explained that he was planning on running for a fourth term as an Assembly member, until Stratton retracted his file ·for .nomination on the last day possible. · ¥cNulty had 24 ·hours to. formally choose- to run for office: \I decided in 24 seconds, but the procedure took one day.\ While he was instantly \psyched\ to run, his . campaign was not organizationally or financially prepared. His Assembly campaigns ran about $10,000 while his campaign for By R. REED WHIDDEN News Editor 'The Student Affairs Committee has decided to . recommend to the Office of . Residence Life \that Delta Chi be denied its group nousing · privilege beginning with. the 1989-90 academic year.\ policy that has been on the books for the past three years. Three years ago minim urn occupancy for Greeks in college owned housing was at 85 percent. This figure has .. • . the fraternity had been warned for the past three years that they we~e in danger of losing theu house ••• SAC met on February 10 to ~· · · make the decision concerning ~ Delta Chi. Representatives § from the fraternity were given ~ time to address the Committee. been raised over the past tllree 5 After much discussion, the ·· years, to come to a 95 percent Eii decisjon to revoke the house~s · .house occupancy. Both .~ privilege was unanimously w · Professor J. Douglass Klein, o · p!tssed. At that February 10 chair of the Student Affairs ¢ meeting two members wef.e Coua.cil, .. and . Joseph . Congtess cost $280,000. The second 'correction' was that he. was not going to replace his prede.cessor.. \My predecessor served for 30 years; I'm not going to tcy to replace Sam Stration.\ Instead. McNulty claimed, \I'm going to blaze my own :trail.\ Interestingly~ this trail seems to at least cross Stratton's path. Continued on page 3 .. ··nait. h-owever, -present and a Ma!!}plqla~ .:dean qf students, second meeting was heid on pointed out that the fratemity F~htuary 17 to give those had b~en warned for the past al>sent a chance to air their three years that they were in DJ)inions. Evan Grace, vice dange.r of losing their house. pr.es 1 ident of the Student At present, Delta Chi has an F<>rum, spdke on behalf of occupancy of 64 percent. This Delta Chi as well. Again the . winter there ware ·only 25 v()te was a unanimous one in brothers living in a house that fav'or of revoking Delta Chfs has a capa~ity .of 36. Klein privilege. comm ems that \Delta Chi has The Committee's decision fallen short ·of meeting the was based on an occupancy Continued on page 4 Criminals Apprehended On Campus Evidence ·Of Crime Found: . Weapons Still Missing By R. REED WHIDDEN arrested in possession of residence of any College News Editor evidence of tlle crime they had students. However, allegedly Two men armed with a shotgun and a pistpl robbed a home on South A venue, a street off Seward Place, this past Sunday evening. The victims of the crime reported it to the Schenectady Police. The area_police were also informed that the pair were headed towards the College campus. In an effort Lo alert the community, the College's Campus Security was then contacted by the Schenectady committed earlier that evening, the crime did evolve from a tlley were without their supp<>sed \drug deal that went weapons. It was never known sour.•• Speculation of this was if the thieves ever brought the due to a large amount of cash, guns onto campus. As well as appr<>ximately 3,000 dollars, tltey could at the dark hour of that was reportedly involved. tile night; Security and the However, there is no police made a search of campus affirmation of this. ia the general vicinity where tile men were picked up, to no avail. The weapons were not fDund. Security continued to l()ok for the missing guns on Monday. As of Tuesday the weapons had not been found. A hunting knife was found outside the blue gates of the College and this weapon was reportedly connected to the two men and their crime. Paul Mantica commented that should anyone happen .upon the -weapons. Security should be February 23, 1989 Students Participate In Governor's Pro\gram Attended Conference With Cuomo By FIONA SHUKRl Editor-in-Chief Governor Mario Cu:omo spoke at the Albany Medical Center to an audience of roughly 30 college student volunteers and local press. Distinguished guests in the audience included Congressman Mike McNulty, Student Activities Director Lorraine Marra, Coordinator of Union's Community Service Connection J(im Giglio '89, a11c:i Oan Waible '91, also iJJyolved in· the Community Serv:ice Connection. The governor, along with Joyce Black, Executive Director of the Governor's Office for Voluntary Service, is piloting a program in 47 New York State colleges that promotes voluQteerism. The program aims to organize a student task force that will work with the governor's office to promote volunteerism and offers training and technical assistance to participating colleges. In Cuomo's own words, \The idea is to get students hooked on volunteering.\ Cuomo entered the small . meeting room to the pop of flashbulbs. \I'm not going to read the remarks they prepared\ he announced, and began, ''Volunteer work is one of the most important things we do in government ... We don't irn plant compassion and giving, we just provide opportunities for people to use them.\ Continued on page 3 Police regarding the possibility of two armed and dangerous men. wandering the grounds. Shortly after the incident was reported to Security, one of the officers on duty sighted two persons who fit the descriptions given. Upon alerting the local police to the scene, the two me£1 were apprehended in the area of S,Hliman Hall later that evening. AlthougJJ, the cdminal~. were · contacted immediately. The ;gllns should be left alone, for tlley are loaded and therefore ]iOtentially dangerous.- Mantica al~o commented that th~ burglary did not involve the PHOTO OF THE WEEK: Mardi Gras '89: Goi:1g to hell in a bucket b1 at least they're enjoying the ride! .. c: UJ u. u. <( I (/) Cl z <( :)) ::l :)) ~ 0 ~ c.. . ~· i ' . ' ' i ' ! ' I. I; I;

Vol. CXVIII, No. 14 Schenectady, New York McNulty Reflects On First Year In U.S. Congress U nanimou.s Vote Of SAC To Lead To Strict Enforcement Of Housing Occupancy Policy 'Blazing Own Trail,' Despite Predecessor Stratton's Heavy Shadow By FIONA SHUKRI Editor-In-Chief The thermostat in the College Center Auditorium wasn't working Wednesday the 15th, so newly-elected Congressman, Democrat Mike McNullty, gave his speech \Early Reflections of a New Congressman\ to a small audience in SS016. Chair of the Political Science Department, Charles Tidmarch, introduced the congressman. Tidmarch gave a brief political biography of Mr. McNulty which he claimed most recently culminated in his being \easily\ elected to the position of Congressman. He then noted that McNulty had the \dubious distinction of replacing an icon.\ McNulty's dynamic predecessor, Samuel Stratton, has been the focus of Capital District attention for the past three decades. The young-looking McNulty took the stage and began his speech by good humoredly 'correcting' Tidmarch on two points. The first was that his election was certainly not \easy\ from his standpoint. He explained that he was planning on running for a fourth term as an Assembly member, until Stratton retracted his file for nomination on the last day possible. McNulty had 24 hours to formally choose to run for office. \I decided in 24 seconds, but the procedure took one day.\ While he was instantly \psyched\ to run, his Parenthood .. ,.. page'f· \Andy W arhoJ.: A Retrospec-tive u MOMA's. New Exbib.it Reviewed .. p~g~ 16 campaign was not organizationally or financially prepared. His Assembly campaigns ran about $10,000 while his campaign for By R. REED WHIDDEN News Editor The Student Affairs Committee has decided to recommend to the Office of Residence Life \that Delta Chi be denied its group housing privilege beginning with the 1989-90 academic year.\ SAC met on February 10 to make the decision concerning Della Chi. Representatives from the fraternity were given ~ time to address the Committee. [5 After much discussion, the 5i decisjon to revoke the house's ~ privilege was unanimously ~ . passed. At that February 1 0 Congressman Mike McNulty Congress cost $280,000. c. meeting two members were The second 'correction' was that he was not going to replace his predecessor. \My predecessor served for 30 years; I'm not going to try to replace Sam Stratton.\ Instead, McNulty claimed, \I'm going to blaze my own trail.\ Interestingly, this trail seems to at least cross Stratton's path. Continued on page 3 not, however, present and a second meeting was held on February 17 to ,give those absent a chance l:(:) air their opinions. Evan Grace, vice president of the Student Forum, spoke on behalf of · Delta Chi as welL Again the vote was a unanimous one in favor of revoking Delta Chi's privilege. The Committee's decision was based on an occupancy policy that has been on the books for the past three years. Three years ago minimum occupancy for Greeks in college owned housing was at 85 percent. This figure has ... the fraternity had been warned for the past three years that they were in danger of losing their house . • . been raised over the past three years to come to a 95 percent house occupancy. Both Professor J. Douglass Klein, chair of the Student Affairs Council, and Joseph Mammola, dean of students, pointed out that the fraternity had been warned for the past three years that they were in danger of losing their house. At present, Delta Chi has an occupancy of 64 percent. This winter there ware only 25 brothers living in a house that has a capacity of 36. Klein comments that \Delta Chi has fallen short of meeting the Continued on page 4 Criminals Apprehended On Campus Evidence Of Crime Found: Weapons Still Missing By R. REED WHIDDEN arrested in possession of residence of any College News Editor evidence of the crime they had students. However, allegedly Two men armed with a shotgun and a pistpl robbed a home on South Avenue, a street off Seward Place, this past Sunday evening. The victims of the crime reported it to the Schenectady Police. The area police were also informed that the pair were headed towards the College campus. In an effort to alert the community, the College's Campus Security was then contacted by the Schenectady Police regarding the possibility of two armed and dangerous men wandering the grounds. Shortly after the incident was reported to Security, one of lhe officers on duty sighted two persons who fit the descriptions given. Upon alerting the local police to the scene, the two men were apprehended in the area of Silliman Hall later that committed earlier that evening, the crime did evolve from a they were without their supposed \drug deal that went weapons. It was never known sour.\ Speculation of this was if the thieves ever br.ought the due to a large amount of cash, guns onto campus. As well as approximately 3,000 dollars, they could at the di:Uk hour of that was reportedly involved. the night, Security and the However, there is no police made a searcll of campus affirmation of this. February 23, 1989 Students Participate In Governor's Program Attended Conference With Cuomo By FIONA SHUKRI Editor-in-Chief Governor Mario Cuomo spoke at the Albany Medical Center to an audience of roughly 30 college student volunteers and local press. Distinguished guests in the audience included Congressman Mike McNulty, Student Activities Director Lorraine Marra, Coordinator of Union's Community Service Connection Kim Giglio '89, and Dan Waible '91, also involved in· the Communitv Service Connection. - The governor, along with Joyce Black, Executive Director of the Governor's Office for Voluntary Service, is piloting a program in 4 7 New York State colleges that promotes voluntcerism. The program aims to organize a student task force that will work with the governor's office to promote voluntcerism and offers training and technical assistance to participating colleges. In Cuomo's own words, \The idea is to get students hooked on volunteering.\ Cuomo entered the small meeting room to the pop of flashbulbs. ''I'm not going to read the remarks they prepared\ he announced, and began, ··volunteer work is one of the most important things we do in government. .. We don't implant compassion and giving, we just provide opportunities for people to usc them.\ Continued on page 3 in the general vicinity where the men were picked up, to no avail. The weapons were not found. Security continued to look for the missi11g guns on Monday. As of Tuesday the weapons had not been found. A hunting knife was found outside the hluc g:.1tcs of the College and this \\'Capon was reportedly connected to the two men und their crime. Paul Mantica commented that should anyone happen upon the weapons, Security should he contacted immediately. The guns should be ldt alone, for they arc loaded and therefore potentially dangerolls. evening. Mantica also commented that Although the criminals were the burglary did n()t involve the PHOTO OF THE WEEK: Mardi Gras '89: Gohg to hell in a bucket bt at least they're enjoying the ride!

. Page 2 CONCORDJENSIS February 23,. 1989 C!.1nncnro i.enst.& NEW,S ANALYSIS By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. This past Saturday's election of David Duke to the Louisiana House of Representatives sparked nationwide controversy and of scenario~ like those portrayed in \Betrayed\ suddenly became shockingly realistic. Duke (a former head of the KKK) and his ultra-right tendencies have instiHed fear and outrage into 'many hearts across the land, during a time when such fears were finally beginning to disappear. Duke narrowly won tile election (by a total of 227 votes according to \The Times Union\) but his victory might as well have been a landslide Duke's Victory Is The Republican Party's Defeat due to the uproar it caused. The Republican establishment has condemned him, and GOP chairman Lee Atwater should formally excommunicate him any day now. Among other accusations,. Duke has been called a racist and anti-Semite. The national publicity of the race for Louisiana~seighty-first district can be characterized as quite odd, though understandably so. The press, while almost continually reminding the nation of Duke's history consequently gave Iitle mention to Duke's intentions. and hardly seemed to care. In fact, the only issue the press addressed was Duke's stance on affirmative action, w)lich Duke is predictably against. Perhaps for the better, this slanted coverage reduced Duke's popularity staggeringly, while clouding his real ,goals even more. Duke•s election has already embarrassed Louisiana, the South and to a limited extent, the Republican Party While Duke's past is arguably an extremely tainted one, the press misused it: What was relevant to a national audience was notas relevru;tt to a local one .. In this regard the press did not give Duke a fair shake. The meclla was correct in chastising him, but ~he real \~ 7 Weak ·:Policies Under ~ Bush's Command Yield By BRAD MONDSCHEIN President Bush held a weekly press conference on Thursday, November 16. The main focus of the press conference was the stand the president has on gun control. The president, when asked \Is there anything you can do about the murderer By DEBORAH LUCEY Every Monday night I go to the SPAA meeting. We talk about project ideas, delegate tasks. and other sorts of things like that. There are always little announcements of information people bring to share with those who rnight be interested. Sometimes they are informative and sometimes they seem to go beyond practical. We have had information sent to us on storming the Pentagon and even an invitation to a national student radical convention working towards changing the hierarchy of the United States.· This week someone brought a bit of information concerning a boycott on Nestle products. They explained that Nestle has just recently resumed unethical marketing procedures of an 'Nationwide Outbreak fn Weapons-Related Crime capital of the United States, as the number one resident?\ he responded, \Well we need the help of all the press to do something about it.\ Also, Bush blamed the States for the gun problems. \The states have a lot of laws on these things ... Let them enforce them.\ The President also responded to the public outcry for stronger control on semi-automatic weapons. He said, \I would strongly go after the criminals who use the guns. But, I'm not about, to suggest that a semi~ automatic hunting rifle be banned.\ Bush, a lifetime member of the National Rifle Association, seems to be falling into a trap. Semi -automatic weapons. are as Sani Flush Or Tidi Bowl: Your Choice infant formula in certain countries in Africa that violates a World Health Organization code. Aggressive marketing of a breast milk substitute had urged a boycott of Nestle's products for seven years prior to 1984. The company had been campaigning for their product using influential professionals throughout developing ·countries. The marketing was done under some very wishy-washy pretenses and the results wete ones where mothers used over- diluted formula, impure water, or uns,anitary bottles causing undue malnutrition. There were other less direct implications to the irresponsible marketing. The cost of the formula was proving to be a drain oh family incomes in such situations and when the formula ran out the · mothers often lacked the breast milk to continue the feeding. Nestle however in 1984 agreed to follow a World Health Organization code to stop marketing ·the product in an ine_sponsible manner and had followed this code up until now. Monday night we were informed that the boycott has been renewed last November by differe'nt organizations in response to Nestle ·supplying large amounts of formula to hospitals in these poor nations. Our informant read off the list of products we should think twice abuut before putting into our shopping cart: Beech~Nut baby food {how ironic), Beringer Wine, Stouffer's Frozen Dinner. The groans began. Side comments fluttered around how good their french bread pizza is. Alpine White Chocolate • not chocolate, · anything but issue in the campaign w.as what Duke would do to help .the 81st district. This el'ement, which should havtp been of most paramount concern, was lost in the hype. David Duke is not a frightening figure. His type ,of character exists in many forms all over the country. What is , truly alarming is that Duke represents and appeals to the majority of the 81st voting district of Louisiana. Thof!e who fear Duke should be reassured that his future is limited. No representative in :.their Fight mind would support his views. and the publicity he has already received has hurt him. If the cmnpaign had run a week longer, Duke very well might not have been elected. Politicians in Louisiana ana elsewhere are a1ready worlcing to see tbat he never gets sworn in. David Duke won his election on sensationalism, and when easy to acquire in the United States as is any other rifle. It is understandable that a hunter will need a Weapon that repeatedly fires bullets against the vicious deer. The sport of , man against animal is turning into machine versus animaL The advance telescopes and better accuracy allow the ,hunter a great advantage 'in the hunting game. It would be conceivabkthat a hunter would only need a single shot gun to go hunting. ;This would limit the amount of semi-automatic weapons and ownership to people who have a real need for them. This proposal may go against rights guaranteed by the constitution. Of course. we all ·know that General Washington and the framers· of the chocolate. Nescafe, Nestle's Crunch, Nestle Toll House chocolate and Chef Boy-ar-dee . food, the stuff that sustains non-copking college students. Easy off products. W oolite, Pam cooking spray, Dristan· cold products, Goulden's mustard, Jiffy Pop popcorn, and lastly Sani-Flush. We were humored by the common and obscure things - produced by the expansive Nestle. However before this bit of information passed by me like the Student Radical that wears off, not much shonld be heard of hitn, unless the press decides to keep him alive political'ly. lie already is a lame duck, and by continuing to chastise hitn would only add fuel to his fire. · Duke's election has already embarrassed Louisiana, the South, and· to a limited extent the Republican party (Duke calls himself a Republican). lie will not be around l~ng, and for the duration, Duke wm be isola1ed as not to hurt anyone. Duk;e is a creation of a two ... faced society. On one side it condemns. bias, but protects individual rights. to practice it. Duke very cleverly squeaked through the gap between the two. He in turn can laugh at the system, until the time comes (imd hopefully soon) when his little joke comes to an end with the next election. . Then the joke of his convictions will become a reality to him. · constitution meant that semi- automatic weapons should be legal. As weU; pistols that blow huge holes in people and can be hidden in your underwear, where no one would dare look by the way, need to be legalized. I see no reason to make them illegal buti of course, there is no reason to have one except to kill anot:ller person.· · · · Bush also criticiZed the states:· for not \taking care of the. criminals.\ By this, I assume he means the death penalty. This action will keep the gun of that person's hand but whose will the .gun to into. Banning guns that are for no other purpose ''than for shooting someone seems the only logical way to curb the murder wave. · i. ~··> Convention information had, I stopped to think. I was pleased that I could choose Tidy-Bowl over the Sani-Flush in this wonderfully capita1ist society. It was satisfying to realize my potential as a consumer and the decisions I can support with this power. I didn't throw this idea away with storming the Pentagon but instead I'm urging all to realize this . potential. Think twice before you use it because the most wonderful thing about it is that i~ is up to you. WANTED: STUDENT WORKERS FOR Student ·Security & Safety Jobs COLLEGE WORK/STUDY AND NON-WORKJSTUDY ARE ELIGIBLE . *POSITIONS AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY* TO APPLY COME TO THE SECUTITY & ,SAFETY OFFICE.

CO/>fCORDIENSIS February 23, .1989 Page 3 Preliminary Ptep:arations Underway For Union's Bicentennial By ADAM GUNZB'ERG In 1955, Union will celebrate its bicentennial. The Bicentennial Cotnmi ttee involved in long-range planning is headed by Professor Ludwig. Several tong term projects have been undertaken for Union's 200th anniversary. These projects include a complete scholarly history: of Union and a published version of the Pearso11 diaries: Other. possibilities include having a contest or a commissioned prof~ssional to create art or music to be dedicated to Union's anniversary. .. A C<>mplete histoiy of Union is presently being researched and Written. The final edition will be published and displayed during ·the bicentennial celebration. In the meantime, the committee is also planning to have student and faculty colloquia to discuss past faculty, departments and periods of time in Union's 200 year history. The publication of the Pearson diaries is another project whicb has been initiated. Jonathan Pe.arson lived in Schenectady in the early 1800's and graduated from Union in 1835. He then became .a· professor of Natural Philosophy with. a specialty in botany at Unioll. In later years of h·is devotion to Union, he was the Hbraiian and the treasurer rof t:Iie college. During his fifty years associated with .. Union Colleg~, lie kept a diary, This- immense 1nanuscript is being transcribed slowly because it is difficult to read. The bicentennial commitlee wants to hire a professional to edit the transcript of the diaries, for possible publication. Now, six years before Union College's bicenteHnial, only long term plans have been discussed. Many other decisions have to be made including the length of the celebration and its activities. Representatives of the bicentennial committee plan to speak to representatives of other colleges who have aJready celebrated their bicentennial . . celebrations. Union's 150th anniversary occured during World War II ~d was barely recognized, so the bicentennial will be a very fe'stive celebration. English Department Sponsors Long-E,stablished Competition Writing at Union can be profitable for winners of contests announced this week . ' ' . by the English Department. Posted around campus are details for four :writing competitions which will award prizes ranging from $100 to $1,000 at Prize Day in May. \A prize like that can raise your spirits and bolster your bank account,\ said Professor Bonney MacDonald, who is in charge of administering the contests and arranging the committees of judges. \We hope that students w1th possible entries will get them in shape to submit. Some shy writers need to be prodd~d into action, so w.e urge facul~ a.'l.d friends to enc(Jurage them to \The writing often conies send in their work/' from work done for classes, said Professor MacDonald, \but All the pdzes are long~ it ,certainly need not.\ She established traditions at Union. added that some students Three of them emphasize· assume that the contests are .;'creative\ writing_ fiction or. meant for English majors, but poetry. These are the Yudis · that \winners come from all Prize, for the best prose parts of the campus.\ The fiction, and the prize for poetry .money for prizes is sometimes awarded each year at Umo~ by divided, to allow re<;:ognition of the Academy of Amencan ·. second place winners. She said Poets. that she hoped the faculty Two awards are made fpr would urge their students to non-fiction writing: the Van submit their work. \And Orden Prize is for \the · sometimes a roommate gives a freshman student who excels in , helpful push;\ she added. English composition,\ and the The deadline for submission Allen Essay Prize is meant for is Wednesday, March 29, the senior who writes the best · which is the first week of non-fiction essay. Spring term. All entries must be turned in with a pseudonym, accompanied by a sealed . ThiDking about teaching? envelope revealing the writer's real name. Further details may be had from Professor MacDonald or Professor Nelson in the Humanities Building. This is the course for you ··~ Issues in American ~# . . ' Vice Hre!slaent Maranville talks with McNulty after the Congressman's speech. M:cNulty Visit Offers Po:liSci Students First-Hand Opinion Continued from page 1 southern regional representative One of two committees the for the WPS Subcommittee congressman joined was th~ : while McNulty is the northern Armed ·services, the only · regional rep. committee of which Stratton . was a member. The congressman then took McNulty is also a member· questions. When asked whether of the Democratic Study he thought that a two-year Grollp, an independent caucus. congressional term was too within the Democratic party. . short, McNulty responded that Members of the DSG usc staff· it was not. While it was short researchers to perform from the standpoint of the independent studies of various . candidate, he feels a bills and then . make the · congressman should be information generally · \accountable to the people available. He stated that he was . · every two years.\ the only member of the freshman class of Congress to . . In response to a question be elected to two committees, about what, was wrong with and believes that this will help deficit spending when it has distinguish the Capital . produced six years of economic District. growth, McNulty stated that it He told an amusing anecdote has to be paid off eventually. about when he first arrived in He claimed that \the rich got Washington. All the new richer and the poor got poorer-- members of Congress were a lot poorer-- as a result of the introducing themselves and policies of the last eight telling sketches of their . years.\ He believes that political histories. It was . economic growth must include getting boring when more people. He answered, Congressman Ben Jones of \Absolutely when asked whether it hurt the 1988 Georgia (formerly 'Cooter', the gas station attendant on \Dukes Democratic presidential of Hazard\) stood up and campaign that the public saw introduced himself: 'Tve been no evidence of deficit spending being detrimental: \It didn't married four times, been in jail hdp the .campaign at all to more ti. mes than I care to h:liD on it\ count, and I'm a recovering ~ · · alcholic.\ Stated McNulty, \I ivlcNulty stopped taking thought to myself, this is a questions after one half hour as guy I'd like to get to know.\ he had to leave for another He just may as Jones is the engagement Education (SOC 52) Spring Term Professsors Weiner and Ludwig T, Th 8:5Q- 10:30 am Governor Cuomo Piloting Program Promoting College Volunteerism SUMMER/ PART TIME JOBS ' John Hopkins Unfversitjl has RA p.;si'lions available for their summer residential ·p•ogram .. Applicants must .have a 3.25 or higher. APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH I, 1989. Junior Year in New 'York ai Hunier College. Students from a wide V·liriety of 'backgrounds :gain valuable on-the-job e~perience in Arts, Cotrimunkations,. Utb.!in Leadership. and more. APPLICATION DEADLlNE: MARC!{ I, ·1929. U.S. Dept. of lnterlt>r, National ·Parks S~rvices are looking for a. te1nporary, ,part time museum aide for the summer, Weekend, :holiday, and evening work may be required·. Located In Ali>any• APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCil 10, 1989. •· Operation Enterprise, of ·the American Management As!>ocintion, offers !lie opportunity .rot studenis to.meet· info·rmally with eKectiti.ve~· and lenders .In various fields. Students learn to apply profession~! manaaen1cnt to everyday ·ure, gain human .relations skills, ~nd !!lOre, • Counselors ~nd drivers wanted for the s~m,mer. program at Shibley Summer Day Camp, looillod, in R:osl~n, Long Island·, ' . • College Ceveoql offen Americans 11. complete immersion into a different culture with programs for International experience$ In ,,. Frclleh seuing. Applicants must have at ·least two years of FEench, · • Interesting and educational summer Job opp.orlunlties are open at Ramapo Anchorage Camp; located in Rhincbaok, New York. • Internship and experiential learning positions available to liberat arts •students ill Vassar College. , · • SALT, ·l'!cated In Kennebunkport, ~E. picks stude 0 l! of diverse backgrounds and mbted academle lnterests to w9rk Wilh faculty lndlvldually on research ptojecu. Learning and ~hallcnging ellpcriehees In fields of •recreation, business, education, and mote .are available at' :Niagra Count)' Council of. Girl Scouts aummer resident .cam • . Continued from page 1 He stressed the necessity of organization and government involvement to make FROM THE CAREER DEVELoPMENT tENTER ... INTERNSHIPS • The Marin Country Day School near San Francisco is seeking college seniors and recent graduates for a one year teacHing internship position. This program is deligned to allr~cl minority students I? the teaching field; Gain, experience as an intern member of an ·qutstanding racuily at .Rippowam Cisqua SchooL Interhs will wotk· under experienced leilchcrs In a !Slarled posllion. The New York State Banking · Qepartment has designed the t;vo\r.ear Bank ~xamine~ .lnlc~~}hip to. identify Md ncru•t. liJgbly quaHfted lndt.vtdu;iljj Application deadline: April 10, 1989 It•? '{1, I Tbe Rhode Island Inter.n , m is a year·round s.tudent ~mploymcnt aervlce ' . for college students ot Rhode Island interested In , . eNelatcd experience. ,, Tho Cetaceal'l Research r''.', interns for the summer of for collecting, organi:ting with lhe behavior of m· deadline: March 10, 1939 , I . currcn'lly · seeking 3·4 hllerns will be responsible· ~nscribiag data dealing mmals. Appli~ation The tiS and World C~)n(nunlt1 Interne l!rozrom sponsored by the Wor~d -Without War Council offen~ a unhjue opportunity for college. graduates io gain Yaluuble experience and loaderrship training in thO worid affairs field and ·the ooogovernmeotal sector. More Information em these and other intcrn$hlps Is available at the CilrMr Development Center on the third· floor of Old Chapel. voiunteerism successful; \Not all of the _1000 points of light shining as brightly as they possibly can along with churches, synagogues, benefactors .. .is enough.\ All of '· these th,ings are needed, he stated, \all of them plus the government.\ Cuomo hopes fora\marriage\ of government and the private sector when it comes to this issue. \The state of New York,\ claimed Cuomo \was put together by volunteers and is managed largely by volunteers.\ He noted that half of the fire fighters in the state are volunteers and mentioned nurses who chose to work with AIDS patients although they could have chosen one of many other duties. He acclaimed these and all New York residents \We are a people who are very comfortable with the idea of love ... We are also tough. We are afraid of a government that will abuse us.\ He concluded that the government must give people the feeling that their volunteerism will be put to good use. He believes that this will \unleash tremendous goodness\ in people. · \Everywhere in the nation you see this trend (of volunteer activity) developing\ the governer stated optimistically. He mentior: ~d as an example that Senator Kennedy is promoting a program simjlar to Cuomo's and Black's. Cuomo offered a story about his past weekend. He had the opportunity to thank Paul Simon-\the legend,\ he darified- (leaving some wondering whether he was an avid music fan or a more enthusiastic Democrat than cpreviously thought) for all his volunteer work. Simon runs a program that provides vehicles which offer medical assistance to homeless· children. The governor was happy to thank him for having come from Queens and returned to New York offer services. Continued on page 4 . ; ; ' , r . ' ; : ' jl '. ,, '

Page 4 CONCORDJENSIS February 23, 1'989 Raymond House Recommended For Co-Educational Housing '1,000 Points Of Light' Not Enough Contln~;~ed from page 3 SAC Supports \Common-Interest'' And \Theme\·Groups Simon and Garfunkel, the . govemerdairned, ma<fe PQpular \the most trenchent statement I'm aware of' about the then budding ske-pticism of involvement. \The moV-ie was . 'The Graduate', the song was 'Mrs. Robinson\. He quoted the line \Where have you gene still:\ · Chris Vadey, a ~enior art major at SUNY Purchase then presented the governor with a jacket bearing the logo he designed for the volunteerism program and a t-shirt with the same loge \for Mrs. Cuomo.\ Continued from page 1 ,(.' occupancy policy in the past three years.\ Since the academic year 1983-84 Delta Chi has not had an occupancy level over 30. The:y have not had, in the past five years, a rate exceeding 76 percent. Dean Mammola commented that \the College has been generous and This is a residence in which efforts are to integrate academics into the hosue. Such things as faculty provided one · time seminars held io the · house or dinners with faculty and students to discqss issues would be efforts. along those Lines. This sort of house would promote an intellectual Delta Chi Occupancy Report-Brothers Only · Capacity=36 j Year 88-89 87-88 86-87 85-86 84-85 83-84 Fall Winter Spring Averag~ 21. 25 23~0 'Zl 25 26 26.0 'l1 ~ 28 25.6 25 25 22 23.5 ;;£ 25 16 21.6 25 19 2D 21.3 Cou,rtesy.Dean ofStudents Office. understanding to Delta Chi for the past two years and we are concerned that there are students who are 'forced' to live off campus and who are being denied the opportunity to live on campus because of the situation.\ In following with their decision to revoke Delta Chi's privilege, SAC recommended to the Office of Residence Life that Raymond .. House (the living space now occupied by Delta Chi) be \allocated to coeducational housing.\ SAC also ''supports and encourages efforts by the Office of Residence Life and the Freshman Year Commitee to establish additional coeducational 'common- interest-group' or 'theme' housing.\ This ~'theme\ housing includes i9eas such as a \living and learning house.\ ER environment. The most likely route for these \common- interest-groups\ would be a petition or application of some sort, but the \living and learning theme\ might work better if an area of residence were designated and then through the lottery syst{?m, those who would like to would live there. On the subject of repl~cing Delta Chi with another Greek organizati0n waiting to get housing on campus, Dean Mammola commented that when housing is dedicated to a certain group like that., \if the . group is unable to fill the house it is at the College's expense.\ He also commented that \single-sex housing is passe.\ Women on this campus are at a disadvantage because so much of College owned · housing is allotted to Concordiensis extends their deepest regrets to Professor Ludwig and Professor Peak. Last week's issue incorrectly printed a photo of Professor Ludwig and identified him as Professor Peak. Students, Faculty, Staff Admil;'listration •.. Your are all invited to attend A PLATEFUL OF QUESTIONS The weekly, infomral, group-discussion series @ 11:45 on Tuesday in the 4th floor lounge, College Center · This Week's Question: Does the Universit,-re~ your feelings? Bring your lunch. Sponsored by Campus Protestant Ministry and Delta Psi Delta fraternities. The numbers of women in incoming freshman classes are rising aAd the demand on the lottery system is becoming greater. Over all Greeks in College owned housirtg were at an occupancy level of 91.8 percent this winter. Mammola and Klein · commented that one must look at the bigger picture: to accommodate students in coeducational situations. General surveys over the past two years do indicate that most would prefer to live in coed situations. In keeping with reviewing houses below the policy rate Of occupancy, Kappa AI:pha was also discussed, Their house, however, has only ten bedS and to demand that they have a 95 perc-ent occupancy would demand that they have all their beds full. They have in conjunction with the SAC made a speeial arrangement that their minimum be 90 percent. Michael Cseh, president of Delta Chi, commented that Delta Chi has always tried to fill their house. They have held a Spring rush for the past two years. They have, as well, been giving out bids recently. Cseh stated that \we have been well aware of the problem\ and the fraternity has tried to do .their best at filling the hosue.-Delta Cl}i is currently, along with their Alumni Affairs Committee, trying to com~ct the problem. Delta Chi also asked for permission to fill their house with independents that they would choose. ·However, if the- College were to allow them ·to choose the independents who w~re to live there that would be defeating the lottery system. Mammola stated that \it would be unfair to those who go through lottery\ if there were those guaranteed housing in Delta Chi's house. According to Cseh, a big problem for house occupancy has been brothers on terms abroad. Currently there are three brothers away this term. ., Cuomo thanked the student and noticed jokingly the size of the t-shirt \Matilda's t-shirt is exotra · Joe DiMaggio?\ and spok;e of .. how it embodied the sense in the sixties tha~ then~ were no heros left-. no.thing to believe in-·. \no Martin Luther King Jr,, no Kennedy or Peace . large.!'' he exclaimed and · proceeded to toss it over his · shoulder. He then remembered the art student's father. \I played ball at St. Johns with him, may he rest in peace. He loOked like· you, he'd be proud of you'' he told the young man. \I don't remember was he . Corps\. He blamed th-is · \emptiiness\ and \inability to attach\ on Watergate, the . Vietnam War and the cynicism that resulted. The American · . people felt that they had no one or nothing they could trust. \People have nothing to believe in .so they try dope, they try sex ...... , He stated that this disillttsionment has. been the most significant trend he's seen in 20 years. · Cuomo claimed that we all look for something meaningful and that loving something enough to dedicate yourself to it is the most meaningful thing we can find. Volunteerism is a way to give of yourself. He concluded· by saying about volunteerism, \We do it better than anyone else in New Y mk State-we should. do it better , second base or shor.t? There was always a list of the top hitters; I blush to mention the first name, but the second was always Bill Varley.\ Cuomo left the podium and proceeded out to the lobby wh_ere he was swarmed by reporters asking him questions primarily about his budget proposal and his stance on a particular nuclear waste dumping bill. He fielded the questions with his usual ve-rVe · and was escorted onto the · elevator pausing only to listen to a Skidmore student introd-uce herself and tell him all about her college activities. Administration, Film Committee Sponsor Disc.ussio~ On Rape· By ELISE· FOODY News Editor This weekend the Union Film Committee is presenting · the movie \The Accused\. Itis a- movie based on the true story about a woman who was raped in a bat in New Bedford, Massachusetts over 12 years ago. The movie stars Jodie Foster as .the victim an4 Kelly McGillis as her aggressive lawyer. Thmughout.the film, Foster struggles to obtain social justice from a judicial · system which seems to be against her from the beginning. · The Film Committee, in conjunction with the Dean of Students Office is sponsoring a discussion for all students after the -7:00 showing Sunday evening. It is hoped that students will. attend and participate .actively in the discussion; a.m:t generate conversation about rel~tionships. This social gathering is evi.!lence of the College's continu.ing endeavor to increase campus awareness on the subject Qf rape. Those who attend the 7:00 film showing will be admftted without chatge and the final showing of the movie will not be until 10:00 that night to · allow ample discussion time. \ DATE DAY OF, WEEK TIME LOCATION INC:I:DEN1r 02/16 02/17 02/lB 02/18 - 02/IS 02/18 02/18 02/18 02/18 02/18 02/18 C2/18 02/18 02/18 02/19 02/19 02/19 02/19 'Tb\U SA.T SA.T Sf!\T SM SAT SAT SAT SAT SA!l' SAT SAT SAT SUN SUN SUN 4:45 PM 4:08 AM 1:40 11M :!,:SO JIM 1:51 11M 2:22 AM '2:23 llM 4:38 llM 8:25 JIM :2:58 PM 5:00 PM 5:15 PH 6:03 PM 7:35 PM 4:15 PM 4l20 PM 5:21 PM 6:47 l?M Fox/Davidson_ Lot South College - Po.tter Lot S & E Building. Fox HOuse Eecker lfall area Social Sciences Fox House CatnpU.s s;tgma Chi Field House Raymo!ld House .area Sigma Chi Securi ey' Office Davidson House Hickok Parking tot S:i..U,iman Hall Ve.~cle security alaDm activated - adVised owii.e.r of same. Vandalism .: Fire !);:)or removed frcm· hinges and placed j.n ~t. Student vehicle found w:i,th door open. NO forced entry no.ted. Vehicle secured and student notified. Two students stopped regarding · · unauthorized entty into building. Fire door al:aJ:m activated. Reset sarre. City Pull .BOx Station acti'@ted~ City Fire .Department Qn can;rus. Fal.Se aiann Reoort of unauthorized individuall. inside cUuding. Unable to loeate upon arri~ Fire door alal:m activated. Reset. Attempt. to· contact visi,tor ~ing an emergency message. Unable to· locate. Student reports theft of eoat while attending social Gathering at Sigma Oli vandiili,srn - pl~ door rerraved. fran cc:inst:uction area. ~ property {coat). Returned to oWr!e:t - .previoU$ly reported stolen. Report of coat stole·n while at SociAl ·event. Tisres Union Newspaper reports a fal.Se obituary attempted to be placed - possibly by a. Unipn student. student reperts ~ft o:t p:r:opez:cy r:r:crn roan. . . .· . Vehi,cle ~ge ngte4. trriable to contact owner. Assist city pollee in l.c:lcating subjects in possession. of fi.:r:e!D:tnS. Located ·individuals. Turned ·aver to IX>l;,..., Assi$ted Health ~ces staff. Ill stud~nt

' ! WIN TJIE WATERBOYS ON ·89.7 FM WRUC ALBUMS & POSTERS < ' In suQHBeir, more is' less. / save 29 p.erce~t ottb,r(l courses, 25 ·pete:e~~ t)ll ~e nr four. ·\ . . Mail this t9~p •. ()r. ~~l-~00-mhJ~~.\:.:~.: '\·r. . . (~J-iijgtt~ij~ .. ;.•.;.•, I l l I j I I I l I I I I I l I I l I J Informal Student Support Group to share Experiences and Feelings of Anxiety, Death, Loss, Academic Pressures, Family Difficulties, etc. Monday,February 27 at 7:30 pm College Center Atrium, Far left corner. If you have any questions, concerns, or ideas please contact: Becky Fitzhugh at 386-4279 or Alison Williams at 370-6846 FRESHMEN IN ALL I)EPARTMENTS The Van Orden Writing Prize is for you Find out more in English Dept. Deadline March 29, 1989 Northwestern University Summer Session '89 Think or swim. 2003 Sheridan ROad Evanston, Illinois 60208-2650 Save me a seat. Send me a fre~ copy of the Summer Session '89 catalog with financial aid and registration information (available mid-Match). Please send tlie catalog to 0 my home. 0 my school. City smte · Zip Smte Zip ~----------·--· ------------------------------------~----~·=·~·~~====~------------------~ . ' ' ' ' , I '' j ' i , I '' ; ' ~ ; .,

Page 6 By KRISTIE ARNHOLD Throughout the past four years, I have witnessed a change in the students on the Union College campus. When I first carne to Union, I was warned abou·t the freshmen fifteen which every freshman woman would eventually acquire,. and most fulfilled this prophecy - myself included. (I'm sure that 1 will be called a The Vanguard Travels Bv CATHY CIIH Thi..; Fnday. Saturday and Sunday l·mon's Collrg,· Bowl T._·an1 lhc· Vanguard. will he tra,,·ltn;..· to Syr.tl'liSC l'm·.,:r~ll' to r~.·pn·s,·nt 1h1s t<~lkc•c· 111 tlw, year' rl·t!ional cmupL'ttii•Hl. Othn ,ollcg~·.., ahn parttupating 111 the comp,·ttt:lln ;tr~ \';t\ar llatniit•lll. ·\llr~.·d. ;md (·,·rn~..·ll. llw '.\ inn,·r of lhl' f<'.c'IOOal ,\'llll','\111 II' l'fOlt'l'd' h' th~· \..il'• 11.!1 1 ·,,,lipdtllon. '\ !le ill'l.i .11 iJJ,Jh.'~ 'v\'orlcl. Florida. I !J,· \ anguard's m~.·rn hers llll'ludL· J 1m Pnw~.·r-;, Ray Tan. Da,,· LtL Amin Khan, and Cath\ ('h1u To advance to the regional level. the Vanguard beat seven otlwr campus teams in Union's own College Bowl Tournament. The College Bowl is basically an intramural competition between two teams of four players plus one alternate. The object is to answer correctly a series of questions based on subjects such as history, current events, music, science, and sports. While rapid recall is a definite advantage in playing the game successfully, diversity among the team members is also· a big plus. The Vanguard's members have their specialties which has emtbled them to tackle the · plethora of different subjects that have appcar~d in the questions. Among other activities that the College Bowl Team has participated in this year are a practice regional competition at Pennsylvania State University and a mock match against the faculty of Union's own Chemistry departmenL two spruce pottery WHEEL-THROWN STONEWARE 158 JAY STREET, SCHENECTADY, NY 12305 (518) 393-5011 SHOW ROOM HOURS: Tues. 1 0-5; Thurs. 12-8 and by appt. CONCORDJENSIS February 23, 1989 FEATURE ARTICLE,S '~ . . ' ' . More c - . . . · · hanges \fattist\ or something next week.) However, the students at Union have become increasingly ath Ieti c throughout their stay here, and ~· think that it is very commendable. Long, long ago, Lhc students at Union College went to classes four to five days a week and had the rare privilege of a mid-week weekend on Tuesday nights. E v.cryonc drank beer after beer 1 out of various tap systems, stumbled hoFne with their newly found friends, and passed out on the floor of the luxur-ious West bathr()~ffi. They got up· the next moming, and if on a weekend, gotged themselves at the infa111ous dining han brunch. Choc<>late donlltS, Captain Crunch, runny powdered cheese eggs, ,greasy saus~ges, and of course, tl1e ever present DIET COKES were popular items. The student, feeling somewhat full but still hungover, weu1d wobble him/herself to the. local lounge to take in a full day 'of HBO, MTV, or foot b.all. Dinner was 11ex..t on the da,y'.s agenda, whi<:h was, probably chicken patties ot even better. salisbury steaks. Not wishing to spoil t:he clay wi~'lt any activity, the library w:as a social place te go on a Sunday night, and if yo.u were lucky~ you could even find someone to accompillly you to Friendly's for a late nigl!t.s:undae, _ Union is a changea campus. Partying dttring lhe w~ek is considered a d11stardly deed and would i11terfere with the \gell' ·\ · -:o. • .. ·. ·.· mg Jlrocess. .:n.at1ng excessively is unheard of; Sqnday brunches ba:ve been replaced by Sunday aerobics. Friendly's even ch>.ses earlier than it used to . .It is impossible to get a bike at the gym after 7:00 p.m., and the long sweatshirt which once served to cover one's large rearend llas been cut off to reveaf one's tight stomach muscles. Where this new trend originated :from I have no idea, but the results are fabulous, Union has become a much healthier looking campus. Look at this Health __ and Fitness Column; .. The Health. and Fitness Colulnn · By JACQUELINE RANDALL Stress is inescapable. It is caused h:,.· either changes in our Clll ironment or within our body. These changes ultimately thrcakn the safety of our body and mind. Stress can result !rom academic school work, li' mg situations, jobs, social lit~.·. family relationships, and I imrK·ial 1 n-,tability. : Slrcss L':lfl be immediate and -;hort-tcrm. like waiting for a JPh mll~r\'i~.·w, or waiting to get ' a r~.·~t grad,· hack: or, it can he .hrPtlll. !ikr a m~vcr rnJing lamd ~.·onflict. Or, o.;trco,;s ,·;m h~.· L';Iw-~·d hy cvems that trigger a ~L~fll.''> or Changl'S, Jike getting fired from a JOb or hreaking up from a relationship. Other common ..;tresses include extreme hot or cold, trauma. shock, fever, wounds, burns, radiation, strcn uous m usclc work and emotional problems. In all these types of stresses, the body adapts to the situation. Stress can cause many bodily changes: increased blood pressure, increased blood- sugar and cholesterol levels, decreased ,activity in the digestive system and increased breathing and heart rate. There are times when stress leads us t() perform faster and react in a useful way. In a situation like an athletic competition, stress may induce us to concentrate and· perfonn better. Also, when meeting a paper deadline, our stress may cause us to \buckle down.\ Yet, there are times when we want to release this energy but we cannot. ·This is when we react in a negative fashion ·· physically and psychologically. Sttess can he short term, like writing a paper or cramming . for a test;. once they are completed, our stress has diminished. and we can relax. temporarily until the . next paper m test. This type of WE STRIVE FOg. stress is manageable. Long term stress such as tensions at home or within the family, ot dealing with an illncs~ can duonically impact the individual and cause him to have a stress overload.· Stress overload can cisrupt work performance, se)l;:ual activity and sleeping habits. Stress can manifest itself in physical symptoms such as headaches, skin rashe.s, stomach ache\. tootha chcs. back pains, ulcer~, na usca. diarrhea. constipation, cmstant fatigue, anxiety and nervou-;ncs'. Some '-'luclies show that crying rcJilccs stress bc.causC' tear~ help remove chemicals that huild up during an emotional stressful situation, thc-n·hy restoring the body's cih~mi·,:al balance. Social support from fr lends, fraternities and sororities also help aile via tc. s trc ssful situations. Exercise also cnabl~s tts to cope with stress more effectively. Regular exercise is an anti-stress activity and reduces anxiety levels and feelings of depression. Other stress reducers are relax .. ation, meditation, yoga, and breathing exercises. Some people opt t(} utilize certain remedies to alleviate their stress. Most of these options are counterprodaJctive and in fact increase stress. Drinking coffee and smo-king cigarettes have a negativ~ effect because they mimic the way stress impacts the body, also increases blood pressure and pulse rate. and secrete h<>rmones th~t lead· to·inc:reased tensiol_l, anxiety and itress levels. Others may. turn to alcoh()l and sleeping pills for a relaxing effect. For peop-le who . drink one to two drinks 11 day; .alcohol can have a relaxing effect on the body. lbt. for heavy drinkers, alcohol brings WORD ~ttl~·~·. about anxiety, depressien and sleeping problems. It also impairs judgment and body coordinaticn. Some short term dietary stress relievers include herbal teas, stress B- vitaJnins, potassium conlaining foods,. vitamin C, L-Tryptophan amino acid and milk ihese tnay help sh()rl term mental or psychological stress. Getting plenty of sleep and rc1a.xation make stress more manageable. If you arc slrcsscd <.at this time in the L~rm, you arc noL alone. Go for a jog. punch your stuffed animal. close your door and scream, meditate, beg. your roommate or boyfriend to give you a back:Fub or massage, talk it out, relax or just dream about a vacation. I hope I've given you some sources and some ways of relieving stress. Have confidence, we go to Union College, so we are supposed to be intelligent ... we can manage stresSful situations. Please address your comments and questions to the Health and Fitness Columnist, Box 1993. Ooncordiensis Poll Row would. you react to a sophisticated Union Spring Fashion Photo Spree? Ofour students? WRITE . CONCORDIENSIS

·, . . CONCORIJIENSIS February 23, 1989 Page 7 FEATURE . ARTICLES Toughen· Up For, The \Experience Of ·A Ufeti me\ \ By TRACEY P~YLUCK The \experience of a lifetime'' was the phrase used by Bonnie Wells,· a· Peace Corps recruiter for, the New York :regional office, in describing her two years as ll: Peace Corps volunteer in Ghana, West Africa. Wells and Betty West, another r-egional recruiter, described their experiences with the Peace Corps, as well as the Peace Corps program. in general, last Thursday evening in the College Center. Operating under the slogan, \The toughest job you'll ever love\ the Peace Corps, founded in 1 961, is a very select group, created \to promot~ v.. orld peace and friendslli fJ ··. Over 120,000 American.s, jr,cluding 11,000 New Yorkers, have served in 94 differcnl r:ou.ntries since Peace Corps was founded. Programs have been established in engineering, bu-siness, forestcy, health and nutrition, agriculture, fisheries, liberal arts, .skilled trades, and math and science. Volunteers are · matched to the program for which they are most qualified. These programs may not n~cessarily correspond to an individUal's .college major since the 12-page application provides recruiters with the opportunity to assess all extra- curricular invo.lvements which may be ·useful to communities in participating countries. Safety is Pea<.:c Corps' !).umber one priority. Volunteers are kept well- informed of the political and social situation within Lhci.r host coun'try. Prior to beginning their assignments., volunteers receive instruction in the language. cross-cultural interac.tion, and \tech'\, what the ministry in the foregin country would l·ike to see accomplished under the leadership of volunteers. First aid lectures are also provided, and each volunteer receives a large and very com pJete first aid kit In the event of a serious illness or injury, excellent health and dental care are available. P<e.ace Corps provides volunleers with a stipend to live equiva'lcnt to i:h~ level of their coworkers. In addition, Peace Corps deposits $200 each month for two vcars in - the name of each volunteer. A third of this money is provided to volunteers before they leave the host country, and the remainder of this \rcaJjusuncnt aUowance\ is received after return to the United States. Host countries provide volu:n:teers with a job and a place to live. The majority of these residences are apartments or private homes of some sort, not dilapidated shacks. Volunteers may prefer.ence countries. Preferences .are considered, but not necessarily guaranteed. :Betty West, who taught English in Thailand for two g; years, feels that she got a lot 8 out of the program. \I taught, ~ but they taught me t9o,\ she ~ stated. While West agrees that lL the program is hard, and that 0 fj; \plenty of days you wake up w thinking, what am I doing !i: B bere\ there are oth.er days when u yoll -cannot imagine yourself \I intend to join the Peace Corps again after I retire. I fell in love, I fell sick, I fell off my mule (twice) and rnost of all, I fell for my town. Peace Corps gives you a healthy dose of how the majority of people in the world live.'' anywhere else. She explained that you become very close to the people with whom you are working and living, and saying goodbye is hard. Peace Corps offers an opportunity to test yourself and to realize and develop your capabilities. It provides excellent training. and returning volunteers are in high demand when they return to the Uf}ited States and rejoin the work force. Most volunteers are right out of college, and a number of Union graduates have historically served in the Peace Corps. New York recruiters will be returning to Union on February 28 for interviews, and appointments can be made in the Career Devciopment Center. Seniors seeking direction in their future may want to consider Peace Corps as an altcrnati vc to the traditiunal route of graduate school and the work force. For Scared And Unaware Friends By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor Planned Parenthood is an organization that seeks to help women take charge ~of their bodies and coRtrol of their own fertility through a variety .of confidential services. Through woman to woman care and woman to woman support planned parenthood . attempts to provide · a comfortable atmosphere for their patients. The information shared between patients and planned parenthood staff members will not be given to anyone outside the organization. The services included cover · three main areas: reproductive ·. health care, counseling and .. education. Reproductive Health Care -Gynecological Care .. .includes pelvic exams; Pap : smears; breast exams and instruction in self exam; urinalysis; check of heart, lungs and thyroid; nutrition counseling; and screening for high blood pressure, anemia and gonorrhea. -Birth Control, all methods of birth control, prescription and over the counter c.ontraceptives are explained and offered. Planned parenthood also provides fertility awareness (natural family planning). -Pregnancy Tests are offereq as early as one week after a missed period. -Abortions are performed on an outpatient basis up to 16 weeks from the last menstrual period. · , · ·Testin\g 11nd , treatment for most sexually transmitted diseases which includes AIDS and HIV counseling and testing. -General Health Physicals PRIZ~iS FOR ·POETS Dealine March 29 Find out more in English Dept. Counseling -Fregnancy O.ptions Counseling, helps a woman, when faced with an unwanted pregnancy explore all her options. Information and referrals are provided for prenatal care; adoption and abortion. ·Personal Counseling Program addresses concerns related to· sexuality, including relationships, family communication, parenthood decisions, post abortion C011Cems etc. Counseling charges are based on a sliding fee scale. -The Rape' Crisis S:enice, counselors help su:rvivors of rape and other sexual ass~uit with emotional, medical and legal concerns. The service is free and confidential. To reach the 24-hour rape crisis hotline service in Schenectady County ca11346-2266. Education ERRATA Concordiensis apologizes for the ommission of the author's name to the poem llemem.ber The Night Rainbow. The author is Cooper Edens. -Community Education Programs provides schools, parent groups, churches. synagogues, and other community organizations with information on sexuality, covering a variety of topics. -Multi-Media Lending Library includes books, pamphlets, films, videos and slides related to human sexuality. Men are welcome and encouraged to seek counseling from .planned parenthood but the organization docs not provide physical examinations for mc.n~ ·It docs ho;vevcr provide referrals to health clinics that do serve men. Planned parenthood may be used as a valuable resource center when particular services arc not directly available. The closest planned parenthood office to Union is located at 414 Union streeL. The telephone number is 37 4- 5353. It is open from 9-9 Monday, Wednesday and Thursday, from 9-4 on Tuesday, from 10:30-4 on Friday and from 9-12 on Saturday. Day and evening appoinunents are available. Delta Gamma Brings. Light to.Those In Need By NANCY FEIWEL Delta Gamma kicked off its first annual phonathon for the Northeastern Association of the Blind. DGs spent 180 hours from February 12-15 calling people asking for pledges. The women raised over $2500.00. The money will be used to provide the blind and visually ' impaired community with free progressive programs and · services such as rehabilitation, vocational ·training and job placement. Visual impairment affects 67% of the total population over the age of 65. Christine Gleeson, foundation chairman for Delta Gamma stated, \I think the phonathon was a great success. We an put a lot of effort into helping the blind and we received a positive response from the community. as can be seen by the results.\ The sisters of Delta Gamma will be on TV during the ~ telethon. We urge you, the Union College community, to watch the , \T~is Magic Motnent\ telethon that will be aired live from Crossgates Mall, March 4, on Channel 3 at 7:30 and WGY from noon - 11 p.m.- a.. a: 0 u UJ u .q: ll.J a.. l..L. 0 fij ll.J b: 3 u , I . ! ' .. ! . : ' I , )! '

• ·rage 8 CONCORDIENSJS February. 23, 1989 Eavesdropping On lnse,ct Brai,ns By BETH LANDSlEDEL At last Thursday's faculty colloquium, Dr. RobcrtOlberg of the Biology Department gave a presentation entitled, ''Ea\'csdropping on Insect Brains.\ For 15 years now, Dr.Oihcrg has studied the neurons in dragonfiles as well as in gypsy moths and insists it is fun. The questioas he finds intcre sting arc those questions which entail studying the neural basis of behavior. How arc the life strategies of these insects prcdctcr:mi.ned by their \hard-wired\ nervous systems? By studying visual and mcchanoscnsory systems, he gains insight into how these systems translate information from the insects' interaction with the cnvironmcat into specific behavior. Why would anyoac study insccl'>? One reason Dr. Olber:g asserts is because insects are one of the most s\lccessful lifcforms. Of the three million \pccies of insects estimated to exist, about one milliDn have hcen studied. Because <Jf their small size, hard cuticle; jointed appendages, and sophisticated nervous and scns·ory systems, these animals exhibit a wide · range of behaviors aad thus, can inhabit many niches. In addition, insects compete with limited agricultural resources and for this reason arc studied extensively. Insects arc also studied for practical reasons. Since the human brain has abollt lO 12 neurons and abolll lO l 5 synapses (the paths of communications between neurons, similar to the concept of a circuit), it is difficult to study and pinpoint specific neurons responsible for SIJecific behaviors. Another consideration is that -vertebrate neurons are smaller than invertebrate neurons and are thus much harder to handle. Dragonflies have compound eyes which have the resolution 0f a cat,_ but, unlike the cat, can sec a full sphere of vision, respond to ultra violet light, and decipher pl'ancs of polarization of light used for _navigation. The adult dragonflies' behavior is varied. Adults can hover like humminghirds, fly up to 30 mi/hr, migrate up to one thousand miles, spend an entire day in flight, capture prey in flight, and mate in mid-air. To date, Dr. Olberg has studied the dragonfly's eight largest neurons and has found that these respond only to specific visual information, such as different sizes of small objects moving relative to the dragonfly. ln addition, he has studied the flight responses mediated by these cells. Docs the dragonfly respond to the sighting of small prey by veering toward the prey? ls flight similar to other aeronautical models? These are just some examples of the questions Dr. Olberg approaches. Another approach of his research is to study the development of the dragonfly's nervous system before, during, and after metamorphosis. In the hour it takes for metamorphosis to be completed, the dragonfly's entire body adapts from an aquatic environment to an air environment. The larvae, similar to a water spider, becomes a larger. winged adult whose new eyes literally inflate and later harden through a process called lallning. What is phenomenal is that although the nervous system is conserved. the behavior of the dragonfly is entirely different. Seven of the eight large visual neurons in the dragonfly which are silent in the larvae are \turned on\ durhlg two WHEEL--THROWN STONEWARE 158 JAY S1FlEET • SCHENECTADY, NY 12305 • (518) 393.5011 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Insects- one of the most successfuHife forms. ·metamorphosis. Only one of the eight cetls remains active in both the larvae and adults. Because this cell prefers large visual objects moving behind the animal, Dr. Olberg suggests this one cell \looks\ for stimuli like predators looming behind the dragonfly. Next year, Dr. Olberg will be on sabbatical and plans to spend his year at University of CA,. at Berkely, working with Dr. John Miller .. Dr. Olberg will use the giant. intemeurons he has studied in the dragonfly as a model for studying parallel processing of information. The following summer Dr. Olberg and his wife, Dr. Andrea Worthington of Siena College, will be working on a field study of the ecological basis of dragonfly behavior. Picture sunny summer days, lakes, and rainy days off. Problem of the Week For anv five points in or on a square of side length orte, sh~w that for at least two of the points the distance between them is less than or equal to one- half of the square root of two. Congratulations to Scott Fisher, who won the ten dollar prize for the fifth problem of the week. Correct solutions were also Beth Deaner, Michael Emmi, Eric Frishman,. Andy Hartman, Jesse Hull, Peter Katz, Gevork Nakhapetyan, and James Nelligan. Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the Mathematics Department Office between the hours of 9 a.m. - 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. - 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The first correct solution submitted will receive the weekly ten dollar prize, Correct 1 solt1tions will be posted on th.e bulletin board outside Bailey 106. In an age of laser surgery and laser weaponry, of computers that.diagnose diseases and monitor our productivity at work, we urgentl-/need clear, intelligent science writing. Boston University can offer you its graduate PROGRAM FOR REPORTING ON SCIENCE & MEDICINE Established in 1966, we are one of the oldest scienc-e journalism programs in the country. We award an M.S. in Reporting on Science and Medicine. The curriculum is designed to .increase your unders:zanding of science and irs place in society, and to teach you to write about the sciences in a manner both infonnative and interesting to general audiences. Over the course of three semesters and a SLIJ71JJUir, you are expected to produce progressively more polished news and feature stories-. In the swnmer betvveen your second and third semester, you will work as an intern for news organizations or for public information and$cience communication offices in the public or private sector. The program regularly draws on the extensive scientific and medical resources of tlfe University and of the Boston area to arrange semiiUirs and field trips. For a science writer in training, theCiry o{Boston is a laboratory without parallel in. the United Srates. Research at its wealth of uniVersities, medical centers, and institutes is on the cutting edge of science in areas ranging from biotechMlogy to a'rtificial intelligence. Computer and other high-technology firms in and (lfoutzd -rhe city make it a leading center of applied science. ., For more ·information c()ntact: John Magvire, Director of the Progtaril ror Reporting on Science and Medicine. (tel. 617-353·4239.). or Donna Ktivis, Graduate Admissions Director (tel. 617-353-3481) Boston University College of Communication 640 Commonwealth Avenue Boston, MA 02215· i \ i I \;

1 ;. ) \ 0' ., ' .. CONCORDiENSIS February 23, 1989 Page 9 The Return Of T'he Wolf In The Adirond-acks- By l(EVIN GARDNER Science and · Technol()gy Editor The question is not whetller the Adirondacks could support wolves, but wheth.er the Adirondackers would allow the return of the wolf. These large predators travel tremendous . distances - l () to 20 miles in a night. Given an area as populated as the Adirondacks, there's a question of whether they can .survive. They cross the roads and there's a ge>od chance they'll be hit by cars. In their travels they come in contact with human habitation, and are exposed to temptation, you might say. They eat livestock; cats and dogs. There's no controlling the range of the wolves. Tiley follow the food, and conservationists and ranchers both agree that there is a good possibility of the wolves living off the ranches of upper New York State. Anne Wise runs a small sheep ranch in the high peaks region of the Adirondacks .. A couple of years back~ coyotes got two sheep and two lambs. She describes the reintrodl.lction of predators to the Adirondacks from the point of view of one whose ·livelyhood is the predators' prey: \People think !shecp.·are stupid ·bUt tb.cey're not-they're helpless, and they frighten easily. When a dog or coyote bFeaks into the, fold: they freeze, and the stress alone can kill them. When' I came across the four that the coyotes got-there was nothing but ·woolleft-I just swore. That helped me with my stress.\ When she was having trouble with a bear nearby her ranch, she called in the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation. \I told them, 'the next thing you know we'll have mountain Iions.' He said, 'Ma'am, the department would be ecstatic to find some mountain lions.' He was of a certain age so I asked him, 'Do you have any grandchildren? and he said he did. So l said, 'I hope we get a mountain lion and I hope it eats your grandchildren;'\ Ms. Wise, whO recently turned 70, feels. She has to struggle to make a living ,because environmentalists think we should he· overrun by wild animals. She contends, \Regardless of w-hat the law says; if it C()mes on my land, it takes ,its Hfe in its paws.\ Most older Adirondackers oppose the intorduction of the wolf. The sentiment left over from earlier times still runs strong: wolves and coyotes are bad. Fewer wolves and coyotes mean more deer. Bun Arndt, who has been trapping in the Adirondacks for 50 years, does not beUeve a controlled introduction of the wolf is possible. Arndt says, \Wolves travel. If a steak down the road is two dollars and a hot dog costs you a dollar fifty, you'll damn well go down the road.\ Arndt believes the wolves will move into towns for easy- feeding, .and says, \If we ever get as many wolVes as we have coyotes, you'll need a rifle to go to the post office.\ Many wildlife biologists, · however, argue that the old- timers sentiment is unfounded. A recent study showed that heavy browsing pressure from deer has almost eliminated the; white cedar and has markedly reduced young hemlock. Another observer said, ''If 1 UNION COLLEGE· DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMEH T and BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT BRENT BUCKNER DEPARTMENT OF GENETICS JOY/A STATE UNIVERSITY \CLOt-liNG THE GEIIE THAT REGULATES BET A-CAROTENE B IOSYNTHES.IS IN MIUZ:E BY TRANSPOSON TAGGING\ I~Oi'IDAY, FEBRUARY 20. 1969 · 4:40 P.M. sm:IAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 DR. BUCKNER IS A CANOIDilTE FOR A FI\CUUY POSlnON IN THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT S·CIENCE & TECHNOLO,GY you've seen them eating alder in the winter, you know we've got !to hav,e the wolt;, ~· implying that the deer ate starving due to overpopulation. The wolves' encroaching upon man's territory has also been disp.uted by various environmental groups. There are portions of the Adirondacks, such as a 750,000 acre area with no roads referred- to as the Five Ponds Wilderness, that lead biologists to believe that wolves could flourish despite the presence of man. Large remote areas such as these mean few roads and few hunters; i.e. less poaching, more deer, and less traffic. The wolf has been reintroduced recently to Yellowstone National Park. Many experts beleive that even . though the Adirondacks are more populated than Yellowstone, the wolf could still suFvive. The reason for this is size: the Adirondack Park is three times the size of ACM presents: ~ !iJ) {!)1/t.J{!@t/ JJmlll@tJild!ll!B tJ!iltl 11/@IJJlfllfl-l}JtJ&@t/ /.b@lll!f!iJ!JlJ(9 S}?~tlf!tlill& aJ Lecture by Prof~ :Mazur lH[ \Q 0 OIDIDTIJUlJtfi®fS ® 11 g) ~®~U@frD®~ q®rr . / Yellowstone. The return of other species to the area has also increased optimism among environmentalists that the wolf could make it. Dr. William Porter, co-director of the Adirondack Wildlife Program says, \Twenty years ago they would have said it's unlikely we'd ever sec wild turkey again. Now it's one of the most hunted birds in the state, from Lake Champlain straight across to Allegany Park.\ And from an Adirondack native, \Bears were scarcer than hen's teeth when I was growing up, now they tell people with dumpsters in town that they have to keep them covered.\ Beyond the ecology and the ecomonics, the native Adirondackcrs, the DEC, and the various environmental groups that make the wolf question one or great controversy, there is a philisophical issue. Since the colonization of America, evey species of plant and animal has been brushed aside, or, more appropriately, stomped on. The buffalo.the'b&ld e.q.gli. Atlantic salmon. black bears. wolves, and even a whole race of people, the American Indians. Stepped on . .Reintroducing wolves to the Adirondacks is a gesture. not a necessity for the balance of an ecosystem. Bringing back the wolf would say that we were wrong. We were wrong to wipe out all those fonns of life that were in our way. But now we realize our fault, and we want to live in this world in a different way. We want to live i-n harmony with our surroundings. The reintroduction of the wolf would provide a symbol of how we have mistreated our world in the past, and how we can treat it in the future.

· Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS . Fe-bruary 23,, 1989. First Meeting of the UNION C'OLLEGE .HlK.E'S l'llERCEDES SERviCE, 1NC. MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (518) 377~2268 . · 349 Allthony Street ·, (24 Hr. .• Towing· 374· 1:0~7) · s·c]'lenectady, tl!Y · C Demereski g-~~ !:7~- (518) 374-4000 S.A.D.D. Chapter \Expr.ess it wifh Flowers\ 96 Jay Stt:~et .. NATURESCAPE'DESIGNS (Cor. of Jay&: tibe~~v· St.l Schenectady, N.Y. 12:305 Thursday, March 2 at 7:00p.m. CC Room 205 Questions Call x4077 or x425'1 Have you ... always . wanted to go to MONTREAL but never had the opportunity? The Traveling Club is making .__, it easy for you nn We a:re sponsoring a weekend trip to Montreal in April, the 14th -16th. Wa.tch for signs in the College Center and notices in Concordiensis. A weekend in MONTREAL ~ CHEAP and EASY !!! l • Sail to or from Europe~ fly tLe other way-from just $999. Transatlantic travel on Cunard's QE2 is an experience of incomparable richness. And now our standby fare makes sailing to . Europe in five glorious days and nights truly irresistible! From May thro'Ugh November these standby fares of$999 or $1,099 on QE2, and Vistafjord for $1,099, provide a berth in a minimum-grade room for two, and a one- way, economy-class ticket between London and Los Angeles, :New York, Boston, Chi- cago, Detroit, M·iarni, Philadelphia or Wash- ington, D.C.; taxes extra. Or :book QE2 alone-just $899 on standby; taxes extra. This limited offer is subject to withdrawal without notice and may not be combined with any other offet~ Confirmation will be given three weeks prior to sailing; a $100 deposit is required with your request. For details, see your travel agent or submit the application at rigilt. · CHOOSE FROM 20 SAILINGS ·IN 1989. QEl TO EUROPE:June 28;july II. 23; August 10,. 15; September 4, 24; October 9; November 8. -QE2 FROM EUROPE: July 4, 18; August 5, 15, 30; . September 17, 29;.0ctober 23; November 26. VISTAFJORD TO EUROPE: May 26; June 3. . :r - A'PPilcATior. 'FoR\ ciE2 s-rAN'DiY- 1 · Cunard; Box 2935; tGrand Central Station; I New York, NY ID163. I Mail this application and a deposit of $100. . I I 2nd·thoice sa1ting date I st-choic.e sailing oate I I' ·-NA_M_E -----------~ I I I I I I I. ADDRESS STATE APT. NO. I I. ZIP I I < . . . I ·LD~m~b:: ____ _:e::_: ~ne N~Q.2,4_ ..J l CITY Bookings cancelled within 21 days of sailing will forfeit the $100 deposit. Length-of-stay restrictions apply. QE2. registered in Great .Britain. Vistafjord registered in the Bahamas. © 1989 Cunard CUNARD F1ve-Pius-Star-QUEEI\I ELIZABETH 2, SAGAFJORD. VISTAFJOR.D, SEA GODDESS I & II • Four-Star-COUNTESS, PRINCESS

· .·' ,., '.CONC():J.tfJIENSJS, F~·bruar-y ·23, 1989 Page U INTERNATIO.NAL FEATURES The Berlin Waif · Still Exists·:: · The Kbomeini Response To ''Satanic)' ·verses'' By NICK PICCIRILLO Eva had received a summons to By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS Most of us know that after World War Il two Ger.manies were created: West Germany, a member -of NATO, and East Germany, a memher of the ·Warsaw Pact. Most of us .are aware that a wall separates West .. Berlin from East· GermanY and that a so-called 'No-tnan's~land' exists at the East--West German. border. While West Germany doesn't recog~~ize this border, East German S'oldiers protect their eomrnuniststate from the 'capitalists' with armored machinery. It is ironic that only East Germans theJ,nselves have beep s!tot attempting to flee. However,, most of us. including even many Germans who were bom after WWH, don't really gr,asp the fact that a barrier separates a common people. One of my colleagues at work is able to gra~p this fact. My West German friend and co-worker Stefan recently celebrated liis 2.5th anniversary, to which he invited his cousin Eva, age. 38, from East Germany. To sucll an occasion, West Germans may invite relatives fmm Bast Germany. Two mollths before the celebration~ Stefan went to his .. ,, . town hail to obtain an official document certifying that he and his wife were indeed celebrating their 25th anniversary. Such a document must.accompany the invitation in order for an East German official to even consider issuing a temporary passport. Upon rece1 VIng the inv'itation from Stefan, Eva's entire family requested passports. As expected, everyone but Eva obtained immediate rejections. Any time an East German attends such an occasioh; h-e must leave a family member behind to insure the g()vernment of his return. Stefan often talked about the upcoming occasion at work. Language Tables Monda·ys: 12:45 - 1:45 FRENCH SPANISH JAPANESE Tuesd!!y$: CHINESE Wednesdays: GERMAN RUSSIAN Thursdays: ·ITALIAN 11:3~ - 12:30 12:45 - 1:45 11:3~ - 12:.30 Friday 12:45 - 1:45 ISU Meet in the Upperclass - appear ~t her city ball a couple of days before her planned de.partute. On Dec. 7 Stefan and his wife celebrated their 25th anniversary. On the following Monday. Stefan furiously shOwed us the telegram he had received from Eva two days before the celebration. On the. telegram were 3 words, 'Darf nicht komrnen' (I am not allowed to come). The funny thing is that East German authorities allow c~tizens age 65 or over to lyave for as long as they wish with no questions asked. Stefan then asked me how I or any of my· American friends . would feel if tomorrow mines and fences were planted in the Hudson River. For this reason, I decided to write this article. Stefan said the l:ollowing: Imagine that on the New Jersey side of the Hudson watch soldiers would shoot anyone attempting to climb the fence to get to: Manhattan. Imagine that your sister living in New Jersey had to wait until your 25th anniversary to even have a chanced to come visit you in New Y9rk. Even then it wouldn't be certain .. The only thing certain is that her family ·would never be allowed to accompany· her. What can we say to Stefan? _, .. - FQr the past week we've been hea:ring the whole of the M u,slim world shouting th:rough the mouth of the A:yatollah death wishes to the .allthor of the book \Satanic Ver£es,\ Salmon Rushdie. The · ove:rriding \scenario if one m~y . ·call it, is the den()uncement of the author's intent and attempt to present a se>Cularized perspective of the · Islamic religion. The portrayal <Jf the prophet Mohammed's wives as prostitutes and the \~uggestion\ that he (Mohammed) wrote the Koran, · the holy book of Islam, rather than receiving it from Allah, w.a~ \sufficient\ material for the Muslims to characterize and label it as blasphemous to their . religion. However, that which has · \~hocked\ tbe Western · .cDuntries is not as much the reasons for this popular di.sagreement but instead the specific response of the Muslim world as generated by the tactics of the Ayatollah. B11t in effect, as a first point of a11alysis, what this reflects is th.e almost total Western ign()rance of Islam. Many critics, politicians, etc. in their d~alings not only with ~~n in .' . . DO YOU WANT TO STUDY INLONDON _ NEXT YEAR OR. IN THE FUTURE? Come and find out about the ·opportunities on Wednesd:ay,. March 1 in the Humanities Faculty Lounge between 9:30 and 11:30 a.m. With a Representative of Regent's College, L<>ndon, England * * * * * * * * * * * * * ~ * * * * * * * * * * ITALIAN MOVIE . (with English Subtitles) ''IL TETrO'' ... THE ROOF Tuesday ·Night 7:00p.m. CC 406 · Diningtoom in tb.e ColJ~:ge Center~ ·* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * GERMAN MOVIE PAULEPAULANDE, 1976. Fifteen-year-old Paule, through the friendship of a girl from reform S()hool; becomes more and more aware of injustices imposed on him. He is at the mercy of an aggressive, authoritarian father who is flghtipg \to maintain his once famous farm. Direct~d by. Reinhard Hauff; starring Kai Taschner, Herbert Weissbach, Gunther Schieman. Monday, Feb. 27 at 7.:30 PM Room 406 College Center particular but with the \greater\ Middle East have been unable to <;omprehend and understand the nature of Islam. islam is not just a religion. One needs to simply read p011tions of the Koran to understand that this book is the literal source and the \director\ of the Muslim world; it is Islam. \So one may ask, ·\does the Koran state that it is not evil and bad to kill, especially another Muslim?\. And even more 1 is Khomcini manifesting the exact opposite of what the fourth article in the S urah - (ShJite law) - states: \Whoso slayeth a believer (anotb.er Moslem) of set purpose, his reward is Hell forever.\ NO! in specific the Ayatollah as the highest religious figure of the Shiite world has been \granted\ the ability to manifest in accordance to what is called \ijtihad\ (\Intellection\). This indeed is one of . the main sources of dispute between the sunnis and the shi'ites; that is that while the first are in strict adherence to the words of Mohammed, the latter allow for an interpret.,lltion -of the Koran in accordance to the circumstances c.onfronted. This is the polemic tool of the Ayatollah. And it is with this ability to manifest \ijtihad\ that 11¥ has .been able to \justify\ extremism and eve11 more ·use it to its highest potential. But. again one may be lecl to ask \Why kHl Rashdie? Why not simply accept his apology? Why sue h extremism? In accordance to what was previously stated about the radical nature of Iran, one . should consider a very important point of speculation. The end of the Iran-Iraq war cart be perceived as an Iraqi victory_ Implicit therefore is the fact that the extremist nature of the Khomeini regime is under the \threat\ of being delcgitimizcd. The illustration therefore of this respons.e serves as 11 reinforcement, or better reassertion of the Iranian motif of Islam; Khornciniism. It is therefore, quite obvious that the attacks upon Islam as the so called \barbaric religion\ arc inappropriate and quite demeaning on behalf of the western media since it simply exemplifies their lack of intellectualism. YES, no one in his right \westernized\ mind and rationale would ever think ()[ killing a man for the mere sake of expressing himself, but let us not forget, that Iran is not a part of this \ideological .. hemisphere. INTERNl\TIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK By Anthee Carassavas \Would you kill Rushdie for 5.4 million dollars?\ Nini Mehta (90)- It's ridiculous! To kill a man for. such a reason is more blasphemous than anything any person could write. Ann Mulvany (90)-No, but maybe for 6 million ... Paumi Reeder (90)- No way! But for half that I'd put Morton Downey Jr. out of his misery. Laura Calvi (90)-Absolutely not. There is no price for human life. J ens T.A.-No, nein, niet, obi ... Jillian Shanebrook (90)- No! religion becomes dangerous when religous figures think that they are above the law. Kevin Honikel (90)- No, but if this guy wants to live, he really should consider changing his name. Anybody named Rush-die is really asking for it. I.·s.U. MEETING Monday, February 27 6:30p.m. in the College Center

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS FebriJ,ary 23, 1989 <lrDnrorbirnsis Fountled at Union Co·llege ltf77 ----- Local Service Rewarding In light of the governor's recent volunteerism promotion we would like to commend all ~he students and campus organizations that dedicate their time tG V()lunteer work. It is important and admirable. Student valtmteers benefit not only various charities and non-profit organizations, they benefit the campus as a whole. They i:11crease Union's visibility, by shedding a p<>sitive tighL And they make us all more aware and active. We would like to propose that students already involved in volunteerisrn as well as those that are 11ot yet, consider donating time to local non-profit organizations. While contributing to national charitable movements is admirable and worthwhile, donating titne to local ()n~s provides many significant benefits. · On a personal level your efforts wiU h~ve direct impact and results and your time will directly be 11o:ticed and greatly appreciated. By becoming actively involved in Schenectady organizations you will get to know and a:ppreciate the city that is your home for four yea.:r:s. You will also get to know various members of the community --a nice change of pace from contact with mostly just students. On a more generallevcl7 working to better Schenectady will ultimately improve Union. The College can only gain by improvements in its surroundingsr Also, good relations between the College especially the students, and local residents benetits everyone on campus and<>ff: Why not get involved in the campus c<>mrnunity s.ervice connection. or even venture out on y0<11r own arm& find some local volunteer work that interests you? The· rewards are many. Student ForUm: Take .. Notice again Student Forum is to be commended. Several weeks ago Concordiens.is's editorial page ran an editorial that received a res~onse from Senior Class Trustee Wendy Endress. ln it,_ slle dtes the many constructive initiatives that Student Forum has undertaken. Moreover, -last week's issue of · (l()llcordiensis had President Peter Costa '90 reporting tbe Forum's push to · establish an honor code at the C<lllege.. In so doing. Concordiensis feels compelled to clarify its' previous editorial. - There is no doubt that tbe Forum pursues its job with enthusiasm and persistence. And it is :a tough job to do. Many issues have come and gone-- forgotten by Union at large; however, Student Forum rnaintaias the responsibility to wrestle with piles of red tape every Tllursday, and other evenings. Not only can this be fru~1rating, many times Student Forum goes unrecognized and unappreciated. And this is the statement that the previous edjtorial stressed. Rob Danziger '89 commented on this frustration over the ambivalent attitude that the stude11t body and the Administration has seemed to adopt over the past year. But the fact of the mattel' is that fault lies in both parties.· Firstly, a student body that does not ta:ke advantage of its 'representative body' is forfeiting a valuable commodity. Idealistically, this 'representative body' (the Student Forum) should not hav-e to shout to be heard, noticed, or utilized. And the student body (or the Admi11istration, for that matter) needs to be reminded, prodded, Cll1tld often reminded again. If the Student Forum wants to become mo.re mainstream, as the letter from Danzi11ger implied, it must tum to itself. Without attaching any negative cornwtations to the word 'passive,' Student Forum has assumed .a passive stance at creating excitement about Hle Fortun within Jhe Union: community. Active promotion of the Forum, its meeting; times and places, .and its members will bring the Forum one big step closer to its g()als of not being overlooked as a viable and potentially powerful voice ()ft campus. And, it is through this way that the Forum will achieve more clout and bearing on important issues wllen it comes to the Administration and College offiCials. The headline on the previous editorial, \Take Notice, Student Forum .... \ was a double-edged sword. It was intended for the Student Forum to \Take Notice\ of. However, it was also intended to pr()voke interest within- the student body to \Take Notice\ of tbe Student Forum. The Forum is a major and ess:ential ''channel o-f communication.\ Keep up with the other important initiatives, but don't forget the primary objective. In fact, exploit it. ' . ' ' . . Personal Appeal for Blooqmobile To the Editor: When we give donations to ' . the American Red Cross Blood . Services, we realize that the blood and blood products we donate win be used to save the lives of people traumatized in car accidents on the roads of the Northeast. Another crucial use of our donations that is not . often realized is the therapeutic • . role blood products play in treating individuals with leukemia and other cancers. In order to destroy malignant (tumor) cells, chemo and radiation therapy are used. Both · of these \tools\ do significant damage to many health.y cells and tissues ef the body as well. Consequently, patients like myself require trans:fusi()ns of whole blood and. platelets as a course of their treatment. Without large quantities· of wholesQme blood a.vailable, cancer patients would n.ot be able to survive the lifesaving chemo and radiation therapy necessary to eradicate tumor growth in their bodies. I vas diagnosed With leukemia in 1980, t had a bone marrow transplant in 1984, and' I graduated £rom Union in 1988. My leukemia has recently relapsed, and. I am currently underge.i.ng chemotherapy. Y out donati.;Qns .of blood at the upc()ming bloodmobile wHl li:elp replenish some of the blood I have already requited, .!lnd it will support the treatment of the 30+ other patients em. this flcor pf Albany Medical Center dedicated to fightil}g cancer. There is no greater gift one. can give on a completeiy anonymous basis. Do11aiing blood truly means givit'l:g the gift of life. Thank you foryo!U' generosity!! ! Tom Christo}lher Unioal988 Honor Code Work Hailed To the Editor: The idea of an Honor Code which has been circulating aFound campus is a very interesting prespect. ·The concepts behind an Hen(:)r Code are the guidelines wb:iclt we as students must foll()W in society. I commend the Student Forum on their initiative in formulating an Honor Code . committee and their wo:rk ~t informing the students and faculty.. An Honor Code is right for Union Colle~e, so let's do it. · Rob Rapllael '90 \Sexist\ Article Does Not Intend to Offend To· the Editor: Sexism: ·Prejudice or Dis .. crimination Because of Sex. I hardly think l:hat . I am prejudice against women for · the simple fact that I am one, · and the article featttred on Feb. 9, 1989 was not intended to demonstrate prejudice against men. The article was purely humotous and written with the hopes· that students would be able to laugh at themselves. LETTERS· TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEE;DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCOHDlENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS ' WILL NOT BE AC:CEPIED. Intent does- have some importance in journalism, especially. in an article of this sort. I noticed a building up of \winter blues\ on cawpus and thought that a bit of humor would lighten the situation. If the article was reaa with the light-hearted attit1,1de it was supposed to creat~, it should not have been insulting. For those who chose to narrowly read it as \sexist\, I am truly sorry. In the future, my articles are not ilneant to llother ,anyone, and please do :iJoftake what I say personally. 1 d:o not write with the pur:pose of insulting the student 'oflody; · · rather my articles are 11imed at allowing readers to tak:¢. their minds off thei:r studies and the cold weather for a few mi11u~s. LAUGHTER IS HEAL 'TRY--· · especially in the wi_n.t~r-· .. and besides, it makes your st,mach flatter. -.. · Kristie Arnl!old '90 -. ·To1 v Del lik~ Aff Col the und pre sin bee tha ma for COl .all! Af tll

Page 12 CONCORDJENSIS February 23, 1989 (ltnmrbtrnsis Founded at U1zion College 1877 ---- Local Service Rewarding In light of the governor's recent volunteerism promotion we would like to commend all the students and campus organizations that dedicate their time to volunteer work. It is important and admirable. Student volunteers benefit not only various charities and non-profit organizations, they benefit the campus as a whole. They increase Union's visibility, by shedding a positive light.. And they make us all more aware and active. We would like to propose that students already involved in volunteerisrn as well as those that are not yet, consider donating time to local non-profit organizations. While contributing to national charitable movements is admirable and worthwhile, donating time to local ones provides many significant benefits. On a personal level your efforts will have direct impact and results and your time will directly be noticed and greatly appreciated. By becoming actively involved in Schenectady organizations you will get to know and appreciate the city that is your home for four years. You will also get to know various members of the community-- a nice change of pace from contact with mostly just students. On a more general level, working to better Schenectady will ultimately improve Union. The College can only gain by improvements in its surroundings. Also, good relations between the College especially the students, and local residents benciits everyone on campus and off. Why not get involved in the campus community service connection, or even venture out on your own annd find some local volunteer work that interests you? The rewards arc many. Student Forum: Take -Notice • again Student Forum is to be commended. Several weeks ago Concordiensis's editorial page ran an editorial that received a response from Senior Class Trustee Wendy Endress. In it, she cites the many constructive initiatives that Student Forum has undertaken. Moreover, last week's issue of Concordiensis had President Peter Costa '90 reporting the Forum's push to establish an honor code at the College. In so doing, Concordiensis feels compelled to clarify its previous editorial. There is no doubt that the Forum pursues its job with enthusiasm and persistence. And it is a tough job to do. Many issues have come and gone-- forgotten by Union at large; however, Student Forum maintains the responsibility to wrestle with piles of red tape every Thursday, and other evenings. Not only can this be frustrating, many times Student Forum goes unrecognized and unappreciated. And this is the statement that the previous editorial stressed. Rob Danziger '89 commented on this frustration over the ambivalent attitude that the student body and the Administration has seemed to adopt over the past year. But the fact of the matter is that fault lies in both parties. Firstly, a student body that does not take advantage of its 'representative body' is forfeiting a valuable commodity. Idealistically, this 'representative body' (the Student Forum) should not have to shout to be heard, noticed, or utilized. And the student body (or the Administration, for that matter) needs to be reminded, prodded, annd often reminded again. If the Student Forum wants to become more mainstream, as the letter from Danzinger implied, it must tam to itself. Without attaching any negative connotations to the word 'passive,' Student Forum has assumed a passive stance at creating excitement about the Forum within the Union community. Active promotion of the Forum, its meeting times and places, and its members will bring the Forum one big step closer to its goals of not being overlooked as a viable and potentially powerful voice on campus. And, it is through this way that the Forum will achieve more clout and bearing on important issues when it comes to the Administration and College officials. The headline on the previous editorial, \Take Notice, Student Forum .... \ was a double-edged sword. It was intended for the Student Forum to \Take Notice\ of. However, it was also intended to provoke interest within the student body to \Take Notice\ of the Student Forum. The Forum is a major and essential \channel of communication.\ Keep up with the other important initiatives, but don't forget the primary objective. In fact, exploit it. LETTERS ·;==- Personal Appeal for Blooqmobile To the Editor: When we give donations to the American Red Cross Blood Services, we realize that the blood and blood products we donate will be used to save the lives of people traumatized in car accidents on the roads of the Northeast. Another crucial · . use of our donations that is not often realized is the therapeutic roLe blood .JHOducts play in treating individuals with leukemia and other cancers. In order to destroy malignant (tumor) cells, chemo and radiation therapy are used. Both of these \tools\ do significant damage to many healthy cells and tissues of the body as welL Consequently, patients like myself require transfusions of whole blood a:nd platelets as a course of their treatment. WithoHt large quantities of wholesqmc blood available, cancer patients would not be able to survive the lifesaving chcmo and radiation therapy necessary to eradicate tumor growth ifl their bodies. I \•as diagnosed with leukemia in 1980. I had a bone marrow transplant in 1984, and- I graduated from Union ~n 1988. My leukemia has recently relapsed, and I am currently u111dergoing chemotherapy. Your donations of blood at the u:pcoming bloodmobile will help replenish some of the blood I have already required, and it will support the treatment of the 30+ other patients on. this floor of Albany Medical Center dedicated to fighting cancer. There is no greater gift one can give on a completely anonymous basis. Donating blood truly meaus giving the gift of life. Thank you for your generosity! ! ! Tom Christopher Union 1988 Honor Code Work Hailed To the Editor: The idea of an Honor Code which has been circulating around campus is a very interesting prospect. The concepts behind an Honor Code are the guidelines which we as students must follow in society. I commend the Student Forum on their initiative in formulating an Honor Code committee and their work at informing the students and faculty. An Honor Code is right for Union College, so let's do it. Rob Raphael '90 \Sexist\ Article Does Not Intend to Offend To the Editor: Sexism: Prejudice or Dis- crimination Because of Sex. I hardly think that I am prejudice against women for the simple fact that I am one, and the article featured on Feb. 9, 1989 was not intended to demonstrate prejudice against . men. The article was purely humorous and written. with the hopes that students would be able to laugh at themselves. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECE!;DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS W'LLNOT BE ACCEPTED. Intent does have some importance in journalism, especially in an article of this sort. I noticed a building up of \winter blues\ on campus and thought that a bit of humor would lighten the situation. If the article was read with the light-hearted attitude it was supposed to create, it should not have been insulting. For those who chose to narrowly read it as \sexist\, I am truly sorry. In the future, my articles are not meant to bother anyone, and please do not take what I say personally. I do not write with the purpose of insulting the student body, rather my articles are aimed at allowing readers to take their minds off their studies and the cold weather for a few minutes. LAUGHTER IS HEALTHY-- especially in the winter-and besides, it makes your st9mach flatter. K.ristie Arnhold '90 - - [ Tc D( lil AI 0 th ur pr si b th m fc C< a1 A u

·. CONCQRDIENSIS February 23, 1'989 Page 13 LETTERS Delta Chi Clarifies Housing Situation Shades of Grey in Black .and White . . - . - . ·To the Editor: We the members of .the ' . . - - , Pelta Chi Fraternity, wo111d like to inform the Student Affairs Committee, the Uni<;>n College Administration, a11d the Student Body that we understand and acknowledge the present problem of our housmg situation. Furthennore, it has been· understood l;>y Jhe carnp11s that a final decision has been made in regard to our hOusin;g for next year. This is not correct. We respect tbe ruling and opinion of the Student· Mfairs Cemmittee and have taken great measures to rectify the sit11ation. We are entb:usia.stic that we will improve our position and are optimistic that we will be living in ow house. next year. Delta Chi has stood at Union College for 62 years and has always played an integtal part in the community. The strength of our brOtherhood, with the .support of the Administration and the Student Body, will ensure that the . Union Chapter of the Delta Chi Fraternity will be here to stay .. Respectfully, The )3rotbers of Delta Chi S:IG:MA P.HI . BOO'K SALE!'!'! Are you tired o,f getting back .only . loose change fo.r your books from the place where you were charged an arm and a leg· for tnem in the first place? To the Editor: I was thoroughly impressed by the openilig night performance of Shades of Gray which I saw in ·the Potter House Lounge Sunday night. Once again this unscripted, traveling ensemble provoked · ~houught and discussion on several isslles of current concern both on and off out campus. They accomplished this with taste, humor, and a great degree of sensitivity. The scenes presented each reflected a particular view of problems and r,ealities going on around us, but managed to do so in a way which. was not preachy and .which left ample room for open ended' discussion. The skit which depicted dating as a contact sport showed a comical but not so flatter,ing picture of the behavior of BOTH sexes. The skit on suicide examined more than one aspect of the grieving process--anger, regret, sadness~ The discussion which followed th~ performance refLected the success with which the skits stimulated a multifaceted debate. Consideration of the racism skit led to further discussion on the \lunch taole\ syndrome so .often debated about lately. The bulemia skit led to a detailed discussion of the difficulties and decisions involved with confrollting a friend who is exhibiting such destructive behavior. The ever present problem of alcohol on Union's campus was also brought forth in a variety of different lights. Drinking was explained by some participants in the discussion, lamented by others, excused by still others. The labeling skit prompted a brief discussion not only on the detrimental ways in w!Hch . people are categorized but also on the healthy and pe:r:missable ways. My personal favotite was the \Stop and Smell the Roses\ skit. It not only focused attention on the campus couch potatoes who miss so much but it also pointed the gu.lty finger at those who so immerse themselves in their own particular activities that they experience little else. I am personally involved in a project ibis term which has occupied me every single week night of this term. My roommate said to rne, \Come on with me to .see \Shades of Gray'', it's Sunday night and you won't have an opporttmity to sec it any other evening.\ I screamed, \1 can't go! I have no time, I have to do this thesis, I'm so busy ... \ WcH I'm glad I got off my overoccupicd rear end and went to sec the .show .. It was ·fantastic! Three cheecrs for Debbie and Pam and· an those who were involved! I hope it c,;ont.inues next year. Sincerely, Michelle Marano '89 · If so, hang on to those. valuable investments an~. bring them to our book sa·le at the beginning of next term where you. can set the p:rice that you think·y.ou deserve for them.! CABARET Place: Old Chapel._ Date: Thursday, March 2nd ',..c...J~~-''t ,· '. 1 .'t •. J:: ..... ~~-: ..... : .. . . \•l ') : Time:· 9:00pm ' ,;1' : I, \ . ' . **Watch for .mo·re · detai Is in next week's Concordiensh;** 'Sponsored by Pahellenic Council All proceeds go to the Schenectady Rape Crisis Center Hnm,an Relations .~· Committee. It has been brought to the attention of the Human Relations CoiDlltittee that there is some ambiguity in the policy for tilllE off. for st~ff ~ue to ~ncle,ment :weat~er · cunditions. While the polLcy 1tself LS clearr as c~ted in the staff manual, it remains unclear who is respons1ble ~or making and );!Olllllt\lnicating the final decisio·n. w7 would l1ke to clarify tttis in accordance with the infortnat:ton we have received from the Personnel Office. Inclement weath.er m~y cause modi_~~c~t~ons ?r curtailme~~ of work schedules, College work act1v1t:tes w1ll be curta:-.:.ed and; or canceLed by authol:'ization of the P re.s ident or hLs appointee on _an ad l;loc ba~i~ after evaluating the.. . circumstances. Stan-offlclally excused from contl.nul.ng at work will ieceive straight time pay for the hours excused: Staff asked to remain at work will receive compensatory t1me off during the calendar year. Standard pay pra~tic&s.will apply to hours worked. Staff .who fail to report for work, or who reque~t to leave wol:'k early because of weather .. conditions, when the College is maintaining normal operat1ng working hours may elect to use paid time off under their vacation or holiday accruals. Staff who repor.t late 1 but within one hour after the start of their work time, will receive pay for the full shift:.· (Union Colle-ge Staff Manual, 1~88). . Oqce the president o~ ~is appo~ntee has aut~orized s?ch modifications,. he/she not1fles the. Personnel Offlce that l.t may be advisable fo-r early dismispal of employee-s ~u7 to weather conditions. The Personnel .Office t.hen nat1fus the 7 responsibility center heads (Peans Under~ood, Gussin, Mammola and Nourse, J. Hauser, J. Maranville, R. ~asmussen) that empoy.~ees may :be dismissed at their 9-iscretian depending on· the individ1.1aJ: departments' Clrcurnstances. If you have any further questions reg.arding this .policy 1 please contact the ,ersonnel Office. , .. ·.-,~1. RESIDENT ADVISORS NEEDED SUMMER 1989 \THE COLLEGE EXPERIENCE\ Applications are now being accepted for Resident Adviors in Union's summer school juniors and seniors, The College Experience, June 25 - August 4. Salary includes room, board, tuition waiver for one course, and an additional stipend. Applications are due March 6. For further information and a job discription contact: Janice Johnston Stevens Graduate Studies Wells House x6675

CONCORDIENSlS February 23, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS Delta Chi Clarifies Housing Situation Shades of Grey in Black and White To the Editor: We, the members of the Delta Chi Fraternity, would like to inform the Student Affairs Committee, ttJ.e UnioH College Administration, and the Student Body that we understand and aclmowledge the present probleJn of our housing situation. Furthermore, it has been understood by the campus that a final> decision has been made in Fegard to our housing for next year. This is not correct. We respect the ruling and opinion of the Student Affairs Committee and have taken great measures to rectify the situation. We are enthusiastic that we will improve our position and are optimistic that we will be living in our llouse next year. Delta Chi has stood at Union College for 62 years and has always played an integral part in the community. The strength of our brotherhood, with the support of the Administ:ration and the Student Body, will ensure that the Un~on Chapter of the Delta Chi Fraternity will be here to stay. Respectfully, The Brothers of Delta Chi SI,GMA PHI BOOK SALE!!! Are you tired of getting back only loose change for your books from the place where you were charged an arm and a leg tor them in the first place? To the Editor: I was thoroug.hly impressed by the opening night performance of Shades of Gray which I saw in the Potter House Lounge Sunday night. Once again this unscripted, traveling ensenble provoked thouught and discussion on several issues of current concern both on an.d off our camp11s. They accomplished this with taste, humor, and a great degree of sensitivity. The scenes presented each reflected a particular view t>f problems and realities going on around us, but managed to do so in a way which was not preachy and which left ample room for open ended discussion. The skit which depicted dating as a contact sport showed a comical but not so flattering picture of the behavior of BOTH sexes. The skit on suicide examined more than one aspect of the grieving process--anger, regret, sadness. The discussion which followed the performance reflected the success with which the skits stimulated a multifaceted debate. Consideration of the racism ski1t led to further discussion on the \lunch table\ syndrome so often debated about lately. The bulcmia skrt led to a detailed discussion of the difficul tics and decisions involved with confronting a friend who is exhibiting such destructive behavior. The ever present problem ofalcohol on Union's campus was also brought forth in a variety of d,ifferent lights. Drinking was explained by some participants in the discussion, lamented by others, excused by still others. The labeling skit prompted a brief discussion not only on the detrimental ways in which people are categorized but also on the healthy and permissable ways. My personal favorite was the \Stop and Smell the Roses\ skit. It not only focused attention on the campus couch potatoes who miss so much but it also pointed the gt...lty finger at those who so immerse themselves in their own particular activities that they experience littk else. I am personally involved in a project this term which has occupied me every single week night of this term. My roommate said to me, \Come on with me to -sec \Shades of Gray'', it's Sunday night and you won't have an opportunity to sec it any other evening.\ I screamed, \I can't go! I have no time, I have to do this thesis, I'm so busy ... \ Well I'm glad I got off my ovcroccupied rear end and went to sec the show. It was fantastic! Three chceers for Debbie and Pam and all those who were involved! I hope it continues next year. Sincerely, · Michelle Maratto 'S9 If so, hang on to those valuable investments and bring them to our book sale at the beginning of next term whe·re you can set the price that you think you deserve for them! CABARET Place: Old Chapel Date: Thursday, March 2nd Time: 9:00pm **Watch for more details in next week•s Concordiensis** Sponsored by Pahellenic Council All proceeds go to the Schenectady Rape Crisis Center Human Relations Committee It has been brought to the attention ~f ~he ~u~an Relations Committee that there is some amb1gu1ty 1n the policy for time off for staff due to inclement weat~er conditions. While the policy itself is clear, as c1ted in the staff manual it remains unclear who is responsible for making and commu~icating the final deci~ion. W~ would like to clarify this in accordance with the 1nformat1on we have received from the Personnel Office. Inclement weather may cause modifications or curtailment of work schedules. College work activities will be curtailed and/or canceled by authorization of the President ot' his appointee on an ad hoc ba~i~ after evaluating the . . circumstances. Sta!rofflc1ally excused from cont1nu1ng at work will receive straigtt time pay for the hours excused. Staff asked to remain at work will receive compensatory time off during the calendar year. Standard pay practices will apply to hours worked. Staff who fail to report for work, or who request to leave work early because of weather conditions, when the College is maintaining normal operating working hours may elect to use paid time off under their vacation or holiday accruals. Staff who report late, but within one hour after the start of their work time, will receive pay for the full shift. (Union College Staff Manual, 1988). Once the president or his appointee has authorized such modifications, he/she notifies the Personnel Office that it may be advisable f~r early dism1ssal of employees due to weather conditions. The Personnel Office then notifies the 7 responsibility center heads (Deans Underwood, Gussin, Mammola and Nourse, J. Hauser, J. Maranville, R. Rasmussen) that empoye€s may be dismissed at their discretion depending on the individual deoartrnents' c1rcumstances. If you have any further questions regarding this policy, please contact the Personnel Office. RESIDENT ADVISORS NEEDED SUMMER 1989 \THE COLLEGE EXPERIENCE\ Applications are now being accepted for Resident Adviors in Union's summer school juniors and seniors, The College Experience, June 25 - August 4. Salary includes room, board, tuition waiver for one course, and an additional stipend. Applications are due March 6. For further information and a job discription contact: Janice Johnston Stevens Graduate Studies Wells House x6675

/ Pag~ 14 ' CONCORDIENSJS February 23-, 1989 ~1f· . ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT '· . •• 0: L.U (.9 0: U.J aJ z L.U ~ L.U $': 0 L.U I f- >- Ill 5 I 0... Recent Flicks f' 1 E.R1C STOLT·Z (c~n1tn) it> Md~lm·8n.1nc.tle tr.e.son of 4 bnU .. !I\ll sc:enh&t. wno -•~!•er1t!S- a lngw::;y \f llorro.r !rc:l'l,·h!S falhm .. DA?HNS. ~UNIGA :5 aem ~tar!H'!!l O~'ly ·fr,elld. 'SnG l.E{: R.ICtlAROSON -$ A;\'tOr'l 6'ar!o~ ~t .f>...i.!hln!>s mOl!S.\f!Sii.SI w!\lO: :.~ses M11tlu\!·1n n1s smistes ~iW1 :1• Twnntmlt'< Cont:Jry f'o>:.'s ·rHE.FLV Jf' nw &equ~l- 10 ihEt tF.oOO twno~ CfaM:C The Fly II By CAMERON KENNY Tourist is a thoughtful but Arts Editor ultimately mediocre film: an Mississippi Burning With Gene Hackman and Willem Dafoe: Directed by Alan Parker. Althougb it has been charged with historical inaccuracy, Mississippi Burning is still an interesting and powerful film. Most of the performances are excellent, and Hackman in particular is wonderful as the folksy and atypical FBI agent. Definitely worth taking a look at. · The Accidental Tourist With William Hurt, Kathleen Turner, and Geena Davis. Directed by Lawrence Kasdan. A rather slow but entertaining drama about Macon Leary (Hurt) and his eccentric family. Leary writes travel guides fer businessmen who hate to travel; a job he picked up while trying to recover from the death of his son.. Leary hooks up with a quirky dog-trainer (Davis) and her sickly son after his wife (Turner) leaves him. Accidental ideal rental for a night at home with your parents. The Fly II With Eric Stoltz, Daphne Zuniga. Directed by Chris Walas. Completely lacks the oftbeat charm provided by Jeff Goldblum that made the original Fly work. E~treme gore, a contrived plot, and mediocre special effeCts make this one worth missing. Dangerous Liaisons With Glenn Close, John Matkovich, and Michelle Pfeiffer. Directed by Phillippe Rusette. Wonderful drama which explores romantic intrigue in 17th century France. Close and Malkovich co-star as a pair of manipulative aristocrats who enjoy nothing better than destroying the reputations, and hopefully the integrity of those around them. Lively action, great performances, and equally excellent costumes-don't miss! • • Submit to the IDOL! Box 1·116 Mountebanks presents: A Playwriting Contest Winners' plays are produced Anyone can enter. Plays should be one act, two c~aracters or more and able to be· done. Send plays to Contest c/0 Mountebanks · Deadline: First week of Spring Term Contact M. Bloom for more information ·Robert Leuci's Lethal Pen By Dina Schweitzer \His name is Bob, he is an d h • II ex-cop, an now · e wntes .. This article is about Robert Leuci: a llome grown boy from Brookly11 who dedicated twenty years Qf his life to the New York Pofic.e Department. At the age of twenty-three, when most me11· his age were rioting against tile Government and entering tile Vietnam War, Leuci was :beginning his career as an under-cover agent. Leuci infiltrated various colleges and posed as a \regular guy\ looking for some dope; in other words Bob was a narc. His. job was not one many of us would be interested in pursuing; it's hard to tum in IDOL CHAT Peas Barefoot people you've befriended. But his priority at that time· was to keep drugs away from colleges, and this led to his future involvement with narcotics and cops. Throughout his twenty-year span on .the \Force\, Leuci served. as a buyer and a seller of drugs in order to find out who was corrupt and who wasn't . His claim to fame came when Prince of the City, ·a novel about a police officer who busted corrupt cops, emerged on the stands of booksellers across the nation; Leuci was this \Prince\. His fame as the \:f> gave him an edge over other amateurs in the literary world. In fact, several publishers were apt to publish and sundrunk We thought peas are now. A slit shell seam presented green pearls Sweet summer captured. * A&E Briefs· Capital Rep., Albany 462·4534 Toni~ht-March 19, 8:00. \Glengarry Glen Ross\: Pulitzer Prize winn i11g play by David Mamet. Call for tickets andJ>rices by Katie.Boyd Who's Harry Crumb Beaches Three Fugitives The Fly II · Bill & Ted's ... Rain Man · his work for the sole reason that he was Robert Leuci, the \Princeofthe City\. However, Leuci doesn't like to be thought of as an ex..,cop with a pen because at this point in his life he wishes to make a name for himse-lf as a writer of detective/mystery novels who happens to have a lot of experience in the field of police work. Robert Leuci came to Union on February 16 and rea9 a narrative from his U:P and coming novel, Captain Butterfly, in the Humanities Lounge. He was overflowing with stories about his work, past and present, and in his discussion about his life he revealed more in one half hour than mes~ people do in a week. Robert Leuci's writing stems · from his life's dedication towards finding and wiping out the scum of the City, so I don't think it would be unfair to say that he is an ex -cop with a pen-because he is. This is not to say that his narrative sounded like Humphrey :Bogart, but ratber it steinmed from the heart of a roast beef sandwich on rye bread next to an opened bag of chips and beer. So, don't wait for Hollywood to produce it on sceen; look for Captain Butterfly in your neighborhood bookstore this coming spring because it's always ~tter :~ead than seen. .Dangerous Liaisons Twins . !'Prue Believers Oliver &Co. , Tap Rain Man TheBurbs Cousins Half Moon .Cafe, Albany 436-()329 Call Theaters for Show 'I'imes. Tonight: Blues by \Road Dogi•: They charm the audience w~h Jazz and love. F-re9 .Admissison. Unlcm College, Wi~ter lm.p rcvisation Ser l'e$ Fri., 7:30. RobE.rt Didk, Flutist. College Center, Unlcrl Colle.ge Fri.,. Sat, Sun. 7,9, 11 . 11 'The Accused\. Wed. 7,9,11. \A Clockwork Orange\. COME AND ·VISIT ,, THE NOTT This week ONLY!! \ Monday, February 27- Saturday March 4 .. --.

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS February 23, 1989 ~~~- _______ A_R_T_S_&_· _E_N_T_E_R_TA_I_N_M_E_N_T ___________ : 0: w ~ 0: w m z w ~ w s: 0 ~ I- >- m 0 1--- 0 I D.. Recent Flicks r' ERIC SrOI..TZ ht'\lt'' ·- t,~ l''·''\' \'\<l'•' \\e <.( d .1 IH I .i\l ,( ...,-,.,.,! .~·, ''\ -~ -1 •'4 ' - • · •• • ~ '·•''·•'' DAPHNE ZUNIGA - tl>·\ O,¢,p> •- 1r 1 1 ,,_, J ;· ' LEE RICHARDSON ,:. .. _,·f:.l.-.··· .~··h,, .--.-,Ja·'\' _, ~.'.l''- · • \ ~ n1'- .,... . T\!•r' ,·1' ,-,-r-•, • ~._:o\\ THE Ft.'t II , .. ··· .,__..,. •· ,. · ,,,. · The Fly II Uy CAMERON KENNY Tourist is a thoughtful but Arts Editor ultimately mediocre film: an Mississippi Burning With Gene Hackman and Willem Dafoe. Directed by Alan Parker. Although it has been charged with historical inaccuracy, Mississippi Buming is still an interesting and powerful film. Most of the pcrf()rmances are excellent, and Hack man in particular is wonderful as the folksy and atypical FBI agent. Definitely worth taking a look at. The Accidental Tourist With William Hurt, Kathleen Turner, and Gccna Davis. Directed by Lawrence Kas<lan. A rather slow but entertaining drama about M:.~cDn Leary (Hurt) and his ccccfltric family. Leary writes travd guides for businessmen wht' hate to travel; a job he picked up while trying to rccrncr from the death of his son. Leary hooks up with a quirky dog-U'ainer (Davis) and her sickly son after his wife (Turner) leaves him. Accidental ideal rental for a night at home with your parents. The Fly II With Eric Stoltz, Daphne Zuniga. Directed by Chris Walas. Completely lacks the offbeat charm provided by Jeff Goldblum that made the original Fly work. Extreme gore, a contrived plot, and mediocre special effects make this one worth missing. Dangerous Liaisons With Glenn Close, John Malkovich, and Michelle Pfeiffer. Directed by Phillippe Rusette. Wonderful drama which explores romantic intrigue in 17th century France. Close and Matkovich of co-star as a paxr manipulative aristocrats who enjoy nothing better than destroying the reputations, and hopefully the integrity of those around them. Lively action, great pcrfom1anccs, and equally excellent costumes-don't . ' miSS. . . . Submit to the IDOL! Box 1116 - . ~~~~~~~~1;~~-- -.-----. Mountebanks presents: A Playwriting Contest Winners' plays are produced Anyone can enter. Plays should be one act. two characters or more and able to be done. Send plays to Contest cj 0 Mountebanks Deadline: First week of Spring Term Con tact M. Bloom for more information Robert Leuci's Lethal Pe·n By Dina Schweitzer \His name is Bob, he is an h . If ex-cop, and now · e wntes . This article is about Robert Leuci; a home grown boy from Brooklyn who dedicated twenty years of his life to ~he New York PoHce Department. At the age of twenty-three, wfuen · most m.en his age were rioting against the Government and entering the Vietnam War, Leuci was beginning his career as an under-cover agent. Leuci infiltrated various colleges and posed as a \regHlar guy\ looking for some dope; in other words Bob was a narc. His job was not one rnany of us would be interested in pursuing; it's hard to tum in IDOL CHAT Peas Barefoot people you've befriended. But his priority at that time was to keep drugs away from colleges, and this led to his future involvement with nar.cotics and cops. Throug·hout his twenty-year span on the \Force\,. Leuci served as a buyer and a seller of drugs in order to find out who was corrupt and who wasn't . His claim to fame came when Prince of the City, a novel about a police officer who busted corrl!lpt cops, emerged on the stands of booksellers across the nation; Leuci was this \Prince\. His fame as the \Prince\ gave him an edge over other amateurs in the literary world. In fact, several publishers were apt to publish and sundrunk We thought peas are now. A slit shell seam presented green pearls Sweet summer captured. A&E Briefs Capital Rep., Albany 462·4534 Tonight-March 19, 8:00. \Glengarry Glen Ross\: Pulitzer Prize winning play by David Mamet. Call for tickets and prices by Katie Boyd Who's Harry Crumb Beaches Three Fugitives The Fly II Bill & Ted's ... Rain Man his work for the sole reason that he was Robert Leuci, the \PriNce of the City\. However, Lel!lci doesn't like to be thought of as an ex-cop with a pen because at this point in his life he wishes to make a name for himself as a writer of detective/mystery m>vels who happens to have a lot of experience in the fieta ofpolice work. Robert Leuci came to Union on Februar.y 16 and read a narrative from his up and comiNg novel, Captain Butterfl:y, in the Humanities Lounge. He was overflowing with stories about his work, past and present, and in his discassion about his life he revealed more in one half hour than most people do in a week. Robert Leuci's writing stems from his life's dedication towards finding and wiping out the scum of the City, so I don't think it would be unfair to say that he is an ex-cop with a pen-because he is. This is not to say that his narrative sounded like Humphrey Bogart, but rather it stcinmc:d from the heart of a roast beef sandwich on rye bread next to an opened bag of chips and beer. So, don't wait for Hollywood to produce it on sceen; look for Captain Butterfly in your neighborhood bookstore this coming spring because it's always better read than seen. Dangerous Liaisons Twins True Believers Oliver & Co. Tap Rain Man The Burbs Cousins Half Moon Cafe, Albany 436-0329 Call Theaters for Show Times. Tonight: Blues by \Road Dog\: They charm the audience w~h Jazz and love. Free Admissison. Union College, Winter lm provisation Series Fri., 7:30. Robert Dick, Flutist. College Center, Union College Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9, 11.\The Accused\. Wed. 7,9, 11. \A Clockwork Orang.e\. COME AND VISIT THE NOTT This week ONLY!! l Monday, February 27- Saturday March 4

\ . CONCORDIENSIS February 23, .1989 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Shades of Grey By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor Shades of Grey pres~nted thought-provoking ·skits on issues concerning adults our age, and those on Union campus in particular. These issues ranged from the comical side of campus life-.ctating as :a contact sport, to the tragic--,....tbe funeral of a suicide victim. Traveling around to various buildings. Shades of Grey succeeded in attracting huge and often diversified audiences. Discussions held after the performances allowed added insights from both the actors and the audience. Opening with a charming overview o:f the Union experience, a student boogies to the Charlie Brown theme and progresses. from a freshman packing to the senior graduating. Another perfectly successful skit was titled ;,Smell the Roses.\ Presenting two extremes and a happy medium of student involvement. the audience is allowed to recognize the admirable balance between the potato \I lived for that remote control:\ and the hyper- involved \I have five hundred things to do before breakfast.\ The skit that provoked the most discussion, on Monday night anyway, was the suicide funeral, where the victim watched the mourners pass his own coffin. The other skits presented serious issues pertinent to the Union community. Stereo- typing, eating disorders, and racism skits were portraye(l in an extremely straight forward manner which seemed to stereo~type the problem itself. The simplification of the issues. while successful in promoting discussiOii, seemed to insufficiently recognize the complexities of the problems .. Especially troublesome was the 'humorous' look at ·dating as a contact sport. While the clever \locker-room\ chat stereo-typed and exagerated all those ridiculous· party preparations, the girls shaking their heads and · saying yes was . irresponsible and offensive. The purpose of Shades ofGrey to outline and provoke discussion on issues concerning students has an added responsibi:lity to avoid compounding existing problems. Where we have recognized date-rape as a problem it seems extremely insensitive to further the myth that when a girl says \no\ she means \yes.u With these reservations recognized, Shades of Grey must be lauded for attempting to raise the consciousness of the portion of the college campus they reached. The student effort involved in this production is admirable and appreciated. A Timely Opening for The Visit By .JESSICA ADELSON and ANDY BRAVER What could you do with $100? But 7 CD's, 12 Domino'§ Pizzas, 6 bottle~ of Absolut, or maybe 3.5 kegs of .bad beer. But what would you do to get the money? Picture this: The L&dy comes to your poverty stricken town and offers it $1 billion in return for her justice. The question here is not what could you do with her money. Rather, what would you do to get it. Is her Justice your justice? Would you go against your own idea of justice in order to receive the money? This scene is reminiscent of the Ayatollah Khomeini's reward for the murder of Saloman Rushdie, author ~of the controversial fictitious novel The Satanic Verses. If The . Satanic Verses do not offend you personally, would you still condemn Rushdie for the $6 million · bounty? . What is being tested here is the quality of the individual. how important a role does greed or power play in society? How far will a person go to Rob:ert Dick: Flutist Robert Dick, flutist, will be 'performing at Union College; Friday evening, February 27 at 7:30, in the f0Urth and last of the Winter Improvisation Concerts. The ·concert\ will be held in the Performing Arts Studio in the Arts Building at the College. As a composer and performer; Robert Dick is a leading proponent of contemporary music and is known worldwide for his command· of extended techniques for the flute. He began to study the art of thv flute at the. age of eight with Henry Zlotnik. His other teachers include James Pappotltsakis, Julius Baker, and .Thomas Nyfenger. :Mr. Dick has a graduate degree from Yale University and studied composition and electronic music with Robert Morris. - Bulan t Arel and Jacob Druckman. Mr. Dick has performed at .Avery Fisher Hall, Joyce Hall. and The Merkin . Concert Hall in New York City and has given a series of concerts as part of a NYSCA NEW MUSIC NETWORK tour. This will be Mr. Dick's first performance in the capital district. Admission is free and further information may be obtained from the Department of th.e Arts at Union. College. 11/E NEWMAN CLUB Cordially invite all to attend a LENTEN REPAST A diriner skillfully prepared by John Ciardullo and Bill.Boyd ·. SUi)., Feb. 26, 1989 at 5:00p.m. (corner ofNott Street and Seward Place) Please R$VP J>y Fii., Feb. 24. John 372·0979; Bill372-5120 Free Admittance Informal attire prefered (Vegetarian option available) achieve these riches and this power? To what extent does the individual feel sympathetic? If you were not involved, would you stop the murder. even if you would reap the profits? What would you do? The Visit brings. this issue to the audience and questions their morality and sense of justice, To what extent is the individual .responsible for the group? And what can the individual do to stop an injustice, whatever the repercussions may be? How much of our existence is based on money. rather than morality? This is the universal question-· Can justice be bought? Come and see The Visit, a!ld witness what happens when poverty shields one's morals. It is a great show with 'a surreal representation of Friedrich Duerrenmatt's play. Directed by Barry Smith, The Visit is a collabortive production of Mountebanks and the Department of the Arts. The Visit opens Monday February 27th and runs through Saturday March 4th. Tickets are $3 for students, faculty. and staff, and $5 for general admission. You can make reservations at the Box Office in the Nott Memorial-call 5lS-370~6153. Please, come and see Tlte Visit, and show your support! ! CABARET Thursday Night 9:30p.m. CCAtriurn featuring The Screwdrivers Be there!

CONCORDIENSIS February 23, 1989 Page 15 ARTIS & ENTERTAINMENT Shades of Grey By KATIE BOYD Arts .Editor Shades of Grey presented thought-provoking skits on issues concerning adults our age, and those on Union campus in particular. These issues ranged from the comical side of campus life-dating as .a contact sport, to the tragic-the funeral of a suicide victim. Traveling around to various b1.:1ildings, Shades of Grey succeeded in attracting huge and often diversified audiences. Discussions held after the performances allowed added insights from both the actors and the audience. Opening with a charming overview of the Union experience, a student boogies to the Charlie Brown theme and progresses from a freshman packing to the senior graduating. Another perfectly successful skit was titled \Smell the Roses.\ Presenting two extremes and a happy medium of student involvemeiU, the at1dience is allowed to recognize the admirable balance between the potato \I lived for tllat remote control:\ and the hyper- involved \I have five hundred things to do before breakfast.\ The skit that provoked the most discussion, or:t Monday night anyway, was tl!e suicide funeral, where tile victim watched the mourners pass his own coffin. The other skits presented serious issues pertir1cnt to the Union cornm unity. S terce- typing, eating dis<Jrders, and racism skits were portrayed in an extremely straight forward manner which seemed to stereo-type the pml>lcm itself. The simplificati<Jil of the issues, while successful in promoting discussion, seemed to insufficiently rcc<Jgnize the complexities of the proble1ns .. Especially troublesome was the 'humorous' look at dating as a contact sport. While the clever \locker -room\ chat stereo-typed and exagerated all those ridiculous party preparations, the girls shaking their heads and saying yes was irresponsible and offensive. The purpose of Shades of Grey to outline and provoke discussion on issues concerning students has an added responsibility t() avoid compounding existing problems. Where we have recognized date-rape as a problem it seems extremely insensitive to further the myth that when a girl says \no\ she means \yes.\ With these reservations recognized, Shades of Grey must be lauded for attempting to raise the consciousness of the portion of the college campus they reached. The student effort involved in this production is admirable and appreciated. A Timely Opening for The Visit By JESSICA ADELSON and ANDY BRAVER What could you do with $100? But 7 CD's, 12 Domino's Pizzas, 6 bottles of Absolut, or maybe 3.5 kegs of bad beer. But what would you do to get the money? Picture this: The Lady comes to your poverty stricken town and offers it $1 billion in return for her justice. The question here is not what could you do with her money. Rather, what woul<l you do to get it. Is her jllStice your justice? Would ycu go against your own idea of justice in order to receive the money? This scene is reminiscent of the Ayatollah Khomeini's reward for the murder of Saloman Rushdie, author of the controversial fictitious novel The Satanic Verses. If The Satanic Verses do not offend you personally, would you still condemn Rushdie for the $6 million bounty? What is being tested here is the quality of the individual. how important a role does greed or power play in society? How far will a person go to Robert Dick: Flutist Robert Dick, flutist, will be performing at Union College, Friday evening, February 27 at 7:30, in the fourth and last of the Winter Improvisation Concerts. The concert will be held in the Performing Arts Studio in the Arts Building at the College. As a composer and performer, Robert Dick is a leading proponent of contemporary music and is known worldwide for his command of extended techniques for the flute. He began to study the art of thy flute at the age of eight with Henry Zlotnik. His other teachers include James Pappoutsakis, Julius Baker, and Thomas Nyfenger. Mr. Dick has a graduate degree from Yale University and studied composition and electronic music with Robert Morris, Bulant Arel and Jacob Druckman. Mr. Dick has performed at A very Fisher Hall, Joyce Hall. and The Merkin Concert Hall in New York City and bas given a series of concerts as part of a NYSCA NEW MUSIC NETWORK tour. This will be Mr. Dick's first performance in the capital district. Admission is free and further information may be obtained from the Department of the Arts at Union College. 1HE NEWMAN CLUB Cordially invite all to attend a LENTEN REPAST A dinner skillfully prepared by John Ciardullo and Bill Boyd Sun., Feb. 26, 1989 at 5:00 p.m. (corner ofNott Street and Seward Pla~e) Please RSVP by Fri., Feb. 24. John 372-0979; Bill 372-5120 F1:ee Admittance Informal attire prefered (Vegetarian option available) Barbara . ,_-_ -. ·.:·~ ::::·.;~,E:_~?::::· .. :::. _./: :\::·- ... ::··( ·: .• :.: • . . . Mo$t over:due .r~~:~lln=> C~ity's awakening to. Sean's unscru ·. _ \ ' ·. . during, their marriage ceremony. Possibl1 stupidest woman in all of Pine Valley (no small feat). · · . Most misled ~haracter; Loving and sterile wife Brooke, whose maid is impregnated by her husband Adam. Adam has redefined the meaning of the word unanny\ for Dixie is going to nurse this baby . from conception on. Most predictable future romance: Stuart and Karen {Cindy's sister). Now that the world's longest living AIDS patient has finally kicked, her less~pasty-but~still-not-incredib1y-attractive twin should step right in. Very predictable! Boo! Trivia Question of the Week: Why is Erica sad? A) Because Tom left her? B) Because it's impossible to smile through her makeup? C) Because yet again she was passed up for some soap award? . D) Because she has realized that cheesy TV movies · are really a step up for daytime drama's best bimbo? Most odious use of mousse: Niko, who is obviously trying -to achieve some sort of Bogart effect Doesn't quite make it. , achieve these riches and this power? To what extent docs the individual feel sympathetic? If you were not involved, would you stop the murder, even if you would reap the profits? What would you do? The Visit brings this issue to the audience and questions their morality and sense of justice. To what extent is the individual responsible for the group? And what can the individual do to stop an injustice, whatever the repercussions may be? How much of our existence is based on money, rather than morality? This is the universal question-Can justice be bought? Come and sec The Visit, and witness what happens when poverty shields one's morals. It is a great show with 'a surreal representation of Friedrich Duerrenmatt's play. Directed by Barry Smith, The Visit is a collabortive production of Mountebanks and the Department of the Arts. The Visit opens Monday February 27th and runs through Saturday March 4th. Tickets are $3 for students, faculty, and staff, and $5 for general admission. You can make reservations at the Box Office in the Nott Memorial-call 518-370-6153. Please, come and see The Visit, and show your support!! CABARET Thursday Night 9:30p.m. CCAtriurn featuring The Screwdrivers Be there!

· 'Page 16 CONCORDI.BNSIS FeiJru:ary .. 23~ 1989 <::l ~ LiJ z i= Cf) a: I (.) LL 0 >- Cf) w lX :J 0 (.) 0 1- ~- Q_ The_ flags flying outside of MOMA on West 52nd St. will be welcoming visitors up to May 2. THE WISHNIAKS: Friday, February 24 at ·9:00 FREE SHOW CARNEGIE ATRIUM Sponsored by Concert Committee -· . ~, Andy Warhol: A Retrospective (The Factory Moves -Uptown) MOMA's New Exhibition- By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-In-Chief It has teen two years since the death of Pop artist Andy Wwhoi,. and_ yet his ptese~ce in contemporary society has never been more visible. He's in the newspapers. He's plastered on the covers of magazines. He's sung about on the car radio. · His name is spoken ()n the televisic:Jn and in the movies. His story is told (and_ ret(>ld) and \available in yo.l1r .local bookstore.\ He's been put on heavy rotation on MTV. The fascination and the glamour that he, his lifestyle and his art attract have come to rival even tllat of Warhol icon, Marilyn M()nroe ~The Factory. The Cam}Jbel.l Soup Cans. The groupies. Leading the way in the recent surge of interest in Warhol and ~ his wo:rk is the Museum of . ;;> Modern Art. In 0 a:::2 commemoration of his death u. and in recognition of his contributi(}ns to the at<t world, MOMA is exhibiting the Pop movement. The oldest litho on display is an untitled work dated 1955. It is offset on tissue paper and features a female figure tatoo~ with cemmercial logos (e.g. Miss Clairol, G .E.. Ford Motor Co., Pepsi Co.). A statement on society's growing teliance on commme.·rCial'ized . . . products, Warhol conveys this spectacle of a figure unabasbedly, blatantly, and unemotionally. After this work Warhol's first ' . . acquaintance- with the Andy WarhOl Self-Portrait, 1986. artist's wor.k in \Andy Warhol: lithograph, he would embrace A Retrospective\ through May the technique as his foremost 2. , · medium ofe~pression. Acclaimed: as an e~tl.!.emely , - . Mq,gt of ~~the ~ piec~s qn ; comprehensive retrospective of display are litfiogtaphs: Warhols' work, the exhibition however, th~re is a sigr:Iif'icant presents Warhols' entire careeer repres~ntatiop.. of sketches, from early decisions of .the late · collages·, ·and mixed media. 1950's up to and including Two more unusual' techniques pieces completed during the involve the use of diamond lastyearofhislife. dust, (Diamond .Dust An expansive exhibition for Shoes (19'81) and Leo a prolific artist, the W.arhol Castelli (c. 1970)) and the _ Retrospective fills three main use oftransparent paper and felt galleries. -- two levels of the tip marker superimposed on actress really was. . In Jackie (The Weel[ That Was)~ WarhoJ manipulates ink and direction Jo comment on the public's obsession with the First Lady and th.e media's 'exploitation of her grief foHowing President Kennedy's assassination. Furthermore, it 'freeze-frames' a particular moment in recent American history and documents an entire consciousness through the use of just 16 images. The lower level of the Warhol Retrospective displays Warhol's later series (Oxidations (e. 1978)) as well as the more macabre subject matter, The Car Cras'h and Electric Chair series appeal to the voyeuristic · tendencies in humans. Repeatj;d images of a newspaper photograph of a fatal car crash is found to be disturbing to viewers. This has something to ·do with the brutal (and gory) ·images, but the brunt of the disturbi(lg quality is accounted for the viewer's sudden self- awareness that he/she is drawn into the details, searching for the bodies in the wreckage, . wanting to digest it al~. W~hol ._.:CaP.fures ;ilip *~Ji~~,V\l,~il,~ still mamtnnlng . hu- ~o~ detachment and glossy, cotnrriercially~packaged trademark. Warhol's work may also be appryciated as ~ docutnentaton of An:'lerican lifestyle in the post- WWII decades .. The movie· stars: The junk food. The television show. the New Y drk: Post front pages. . ·museum. Every wall is jam- lithograph (Mkk Jagg.er · In the course of this review, only a portion of the work on The Accused Friday and Saturday 7:00,9:00, and 11:00 Sunday 7:00 and 10:00 Discussion to follow after movie Sun 7:00pm: In CC Aud. packed with his work. Series (c. 1970)) There is also The effect is astounding on a corridor refering to Warhol's the visitors. They are Silver Cloud project in the bombarded with exaggerated '60s that has silver floating, images (by way of repetition pillow-like balloons. Cow and/or size) and vibrant colors. wallpaper from Warhol's In a seemiiJgly endless maze, installaton at the Castelli the . hype., the shrill, the Gallery (NYC} in 1966 has exagger-ation, the blaring been pasted up on either side of clarity <Jf Warhol's canvased the narrow corridor. images are. left unadulterated. Each media. has its purpose, In fact, tb.e cafeteria-like but it is understandable why sterility <Jf the museum and . Warhol turned to the litho New Yor.k crowd din provide - technique more often than not. the ideal 'frame' to showcase Warhol's inventive serial form_ his work -work that celebrates (multiple prssings of the same secondary American culture. image). which he uses for \Andy Warhol: A Marilyn Monroe, Elvis, Restrospective\ the first full- s -& H Green Sta.:mps, scale exhibition of Warhol's. etc., is somewhat dependent on work; becomes one enormous the gradations in tonalities. In icon to the artist. by the artist. the Natalie Wood series and Never before has such a Jackie (The Week That comprehensive exhibition been Was), Warhol manipulates the organized entirely around one density .of the black ink when artist so contemporary with the setting the' litho to~ create times. And this monumental dramatic change in the s~ngle fact stands second only tb the· ·'~ages of Wood and the. then- art on exhibit. Mrs. Kennedy. The success of the MOMA's For example, Natalie Wood's exhibition is rooted in the face is screened onto a wall- drawing power of Warhol's sized canvas 48 times. work. Behind the publicity; the However. each pressing is festive .fla,gs on West 52nd,,and unique. Moreover, each implies the over-priced museum. shop . . an added dimension to. the calendars and coffee table movie star's personality. 1t also books, there lies. an alludes to the nature of her opport11nity for -any ~;trt career: acting. The barr~ge of enthusiast to learn more about varied and affected images Warhol and the Pop Art forces one to question who the . . ' djsplay, some of it seen for the first time publicly, has been mentioned. There's so much avatlable-- whether to be enjoyed for the sensat!analism and hype of the exhibition, 'or for the sake of art. There•s also MOMA's per~anent collection. · A chuckle. A scratch on the head. An exhausting analysis. Or a nostalgic look at the '50s, '60, '70s and soon-to-be-over '80s. For whatever level one wishes to enjoy MOMA's own finely packaged exhibition (including Warhors -own Flowers litho embossed on entrance 1 tickets), \Andy Warhol: A Retrospective\· i's worth the effort to find your way down to ~anhattan and stand in line.. Tickets are on sale in the lobby (and may be purchased only there) for $6,00~.adult non-members and $3.50 with student identification. You can gbt moFe· information on the Warh,ol Retrospective Exhibition any time by calling 1~212- '708-9850. Get a clue Get an opinion Read Concordiensis News Analysis

CONCORDIENSIS Februa-ry 23, 1989 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT : - .. . . ' ' .. ,. . . . The Beloved Entertainer .By JOHN S. MORGAN. It must he tough ta be a gen~J:lS. I cannot say that I know, but I call try to imagine. Being labeled a genius is certainly a weighty load to carry. All things considered, Elvis CosteHo's Spike, now available on Warner Brothers Records, proves Mr. D.P.A. MacManus (Elvis) a worthy standard bearer for the geniuses of this world. Spike is Costello's third record without The Attractions, his backing band for over a decade - si.nce My Aim Is True. However, the absence of The Attractions is not the big news here - the noteworthy contributions of Paul McCartney, Roger McGuin and T Bone Burnett (who produced the record along with Costello) make Spike sing. Costello has not produced a truly noteworthy album since Punch The Clock. Undoubtedly, loyal Elvis fans ·enjoyed Blood And Chocolate - a rocking rave- up with the Attractions - but as ·a whole the album suffers from a sense of confusion and a notable lack of direction. Spike stands in stark contrast _to all of his recent efforts.. The album is wonderfully melodic and rich with Costello's magical hooks- ! love.good hooks. The first single lobe released is \VeroniCa\; in a word it is beautiful. The song is credited to McCartny/ MacManus, but it is not a \prop.er collaboration\. McCartney invited Costello to write Some songs with him for the e~­ Beatles~ forthcoming album, Costello brought along two half-written tunes to give the duo a jumping off point--what · is now \V:eronica\ was one of those songs. The precision of the ly:l'ics reveals McCartney's hand in the project, but \These days I'm afraid she's not even sure if her name is Veronica, n could well be a line in an Elvis CosteLlo autobiography. I am also quite partial to II Th\ T 'If M c tn ••. IS own... . c ar ey contributes wonderful bass lines, full of personality, employing a Rickenbacker, McGuinn plays a masterful Rickenbacker 12-string and ~urnett strums along acoustically. Wow! Costello lists himself as MacManus on the record jacket to round out the three Macs .. This is a wonderful song that may never be heard on the radio due to its brutal frankness. The chorus points out that \You're nobody 'til everybody in this town thinks you're a bastard.~~ Spike has· its dark and moody moments, particularly \Let Him Pangle\. The Dirty Dozen Brass Band, of New Orleans, are featured on three tracks, including \Deep Dark Mark· Russell's Ambition Fulfilled By PATTI REILLY As Mark Russell stood before a full house at Proctor's Theater on Thursday night, he emphatically declared, \It has been my lifelong ambition to stand on the stage of Proctor's Theater in Schenectady, New York.\ This was received with a loud ring of laughter and applause. · The people of Schenectady, \the only city in the nation where they know how to spell Schenectady,\ like to laugh at themselves. As a matter of fact, most Americans enjoy laughing at themselves. Our surroundings, our .culture, and especially our government are all topics which we love to joke about, and Mark Russell is just the man to point out where that humor can be found. Mr. Russell tells us that there is a fine line between satire and the actual event. This comedian seems to remove that line . altogether, making any event, usually political, potentially funny, if not h ysterica1. It wiJuld be difficult; if not · impossible, to do justice_ to Mr. Russell's humor in print. The full enjoyment of his satiric wit comes not only from his sly humor, but alsq from his surprising antics and his· animated delivery. He pleased this audience with his famous combination of song and comedy, dedicating \Button Up Your Overcoat\ to George Bush. Mr. ~ussell was having fun with the nation's fear that something may happen to President Bush, and then Dan Quayle would have to rise to the occasion. Mr. Russell had quite a. good time with this topic much of the night, returning to Dan Quayle, \George Bush's handicap,\ more than once. No one escaped this biting tongue - Barbara Bush became \Silver Fox\ sung to the tune of \Silver Bells,\ and Ronald Reagan became the \Gipper'' of George Bush, the \Giplet.\ Between the songs came a non-stop barrage of comedy. This was not easy listening however. I am embarrassed to say that more than one name went by me unrecognized, and more than one joke right over my head. This was intellectual humor, and I had to stay on my toes. Mr. Russell did not entirely confine himself to .the political arena. He presented the audience with a piece poking fun at Jim and Tammy. i:Ie touched on the comedy of being a parent in the eighties, and h~ even joked about his own past, showing the audience that he could laugh at himself, as well as others. Mark Russell's style is genius. He stands on stage accompanied by nothing more than an American flag, a star- spangled piano, and a bow tie. His humor pushes the limits ·sometimes, but it never goes too far. Mark Russell does more than make people laugh; by joking about the most impottant men in America in one breath, and then Schenectady in his next breath, and then himself in his next, he proves that there is a funny side to every aspect of life. It we try to rem em l;>er this philosophy when things are looking down, maybe the world will seem a little brig_hter to us all. THE BOTTOM. LINE Topic To Be Announced Sunday 9:00-10:00 p.m. 89.7 WRUC Elvis Costello Truthful Mirror\. The arrangements are far from typical for a horn section playing on a pop/rock album, and they come off brilliantly. I can think of no album that I have recommended more heartily than I endorse Spike. On this score, even the haughty New York Times music critic agrees. Of course, I have yet to review The Rcplaccll)ents' record (which The Times will never do), but do not allow my enthusiasm for The 'Mats (same space, next week) to diminish the urgency with which Spike must be heard. r--------Clip. 'n' Save--------, f I I THE WRUC NEW 8.97 I 1 A Virtual Eargasm! I I I I I 1 No. Artist Album Label I 1 1. Elvis Costello Spike Warner I .I I 1 2. XTC (12\) * 11 Mayor of Simpleton\ Geffen 1 I 3. The Replacements Don't Tell A Soul Sire : I 4 Violent Femmes 3 Slash I I . I I 5. Guadalcanal Diary I I (12\) * \Always Saturday\ Elektra I I I J, 6. Throwing Muses Hunkpapa Sire I I I 1 7. Fine Young Cannibals 1 I (12\) \She Drives Me Crazy'' I.R.S. 1 I. 8. The Proclaimers Sunshine on Leith Chrysalis I ~ 8.97 Lou Reed New York Sire ~ I *First week 8.97 1 I Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week: I I' LOVE TRACTOR- \FANTASY\. I l..------------------~----...1 DO YOU WRITE FICTION? We PRIZE your work Find out about prizes for your talent in the English Dept~ Deadline March 29 ,.

Page 18 CONCORDJENSIS February 23, 1989 BASEMENT OF HU1fAN1TIES WORD PROCESSING AND WORDPERFECT CLASSES. MmiPRINm G FOR 1 COPY Dar IATJI.IX FQR IIJL'I'IPLE COFIE~· FREE!!~. . .. . . ANNOUNC:ING An automotive service center where the emphasfs is on service · -We oner certified technicians on duty until midnight Monday-Friday JN:DIAN Bl:Afti:KET -Full Service Citgo Gasoline {atself\service prices) Avail abe M-F 6 am til midnight; Sat. 7 am - 8 om;; Sun. 9 am -7 pm. TAKE ADVI\NTAGE OF OUR COUPON SPECIALS! CALL TODAY FOR ANAPPOINMENt .. N:iskayu_na ·· T'IRE & SE.RV·ICE C:E.NTER 1501 BaUtown Road (Corner Nott Street) SCHENECTADY.sPHON·E 374-9751 24 Hot!~ Towing special' Offer Free ·Blessing Size 72X90,. And Choice of Blue or Brown. Authentic Indian oeslgn Each one Personanv Blessed BV Wise OWl~ Medicine Man And Chief Drowning creek Reser:vatlon $150. Value For Only $39 .. \ Postpaid Satl.sfactio:n Cuaranteedl Ihe Only B:lanket Offered To The PubliC Blessed By Indian Medicine Man Your Order Provides Help urgently Needed By Tribe, Please write: Chief Wise Owl., browning creek Reservation, IU2 Box 108, Maxton, N.C. 28364 Stop hopping around for a special treat. Join us for Dutchman's Dinner Wednesday, March 8th Sign up Early at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. We wish you good luck on your exams. Menu will feature: Roast Prime ribs ofbeef Chicken Chablis Stuffed Jumbo Shrimp ,. I -~ HAPPY H·OUR MON ... fRI. 5-7 PM Restaurant and Bar EVERY FBIDA y' FREE·· WING.S · ·· -· · 16 OZ .. MUGS·75¢ at Happy Hour·. N.EW DRlNK SPECIALS MONDAY: TUESDAY: BUD'NITE SCHNAPP'S NITE 9- 12.PM· 10-12:00 PM WEDNESDAY: WING NITE . 7- 1:00AM THURSDAY: M'IXED DRINKS 9-12:00 PM FRI,DAY: FREE WINGS 5-7:00 PM SATURDAY: SING .. A-LONG WITH LONE TONE Bottles $1.00 . Pitchers $3.75 ALL·SHOTS ·95¢ . Peppermint, Peach, strawberry, root beer 2 for 1 $3.50/0DR~ All Rail Drinks $1.00 1 0:00-Ciose *MUST BE 21 v·AS. OLD* 501 HATTIE STREE1, SCHENECTADY, NEW YO-RK 1a·3o·a (518) 393~0594 ~· . .. ~: ~· \

\ Cf\:MPUS _NE·WS - -... -- .. - 1\f~rt~n' T.apes ·.- F:t:iday, FeK 24 at noon. aU are welcome to bring a br()wn. hag lunch and 1isten to a Me:t:ton Ta~e in CC404B. Morning prayer continues ' in the 4th floor lounge of the ' College Center from 8: 15-8:35 Qn weekdays. Confirmation T li is . _spring, Bis.hop Hubbard will . · administer ·the ·Sacrament of ·; · Confirmation :in St. John the· . Evangelist Church. Union students are invited to participate. Any Union student who has not been confirmed may contact Sr. J 0an 404B College Center who will arrange ·meetings to assist. students in their preparation. · · Tutoring • Union College · · students can be used in the Bible Study takes place in · following areas at St John's CC205 on Thursday from · School: Kindergarten and Math ll :30-12:45. Come join us! Aides and Reading on a one - There will be NO worship on camptJs ,.this Sunday (2/26). \Does the Un.iversity re.press your feelings?\ is the topic for this week's A Plateful of Questions participatory discussion seii,cs on Tuesday from 11:45-12:30 in the 4th floor lounge oli the College Center. Co-sponsored with Delta .Psi Delta.. All welcome. Bring your mind and your lunch. CPM is working in the Salvation Anny soup knchcn on Thursday, 3/2'. Please sign to-one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 386-4353. Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at .the 7.:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:.30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Visiting Shut-ins -. Any Union student who wishes to visit a shut-in on a regular basis during these dreary winter months, please contact Gerri Borne 372-3381. up by calling x66U by p·ERSON.' A rs Tuesday (2/28). \'oluntccrs . . . . · . .t\1Li are needed for 2 shifts: 9'-10:30 ---------- and 11 :30-1. Monday Night Suppers - February 27th at 5 p.m. in CC203 either use your meal plan or bring your own .and join Professor Toni DeAngelo, Terms Abroad Co-ordinator for conversation and an informal presentation. All welcome. Catholic Adult Video Educ.ation Series Tuesdays from 4:30 - 5 p.m. in Room 204· of the . Coflege Center. Sr. Joan will pr<>vide an opportunity for students to update and discu$S faith issues witb the Apostle's Creed as a ~uide. Tuesday, Feb. 28~ \Holy Spirit: The Breatb Of GQd\-Part II. All welc<>me. Attendance at prior sessions not necessary. FINAL SCHEDULE One final was omitted from tt:Je schedule fast week- PHY 1.1-3 lntro. to Ph~/sics 1-K. ... ·Schick is on Frl~ Mar-ch 17th ·tro.m 2:00-4:00 pm in BAIL . 207. We .appologize for any inconvenience. Brian- Please don't stress out- If you ever want to take a break and laugh a bit, come to 301 Seward and Ann will break pretzels and you can play with Putter. P-age 19 Fi-sh- Stop clogging up the drain you human hairball. WRUC GENERAL ,ME:EJINiG featuring ... WAKE N' BAKE in beautiful . - Negril, Jamaica - unbelievable spring break package startiQgat $439. Call Sun Splash Tours at l-800A26-7710. Rob F- . Happy Birthday! There's no February 29th this year, so I guess you'll have to -celebrate on Feb. 28th and March 1st - too bad! Have fun! . Love Leslie (\Lesmo\ !) •Proposed Constitutional Ammendment •Executive Board Election~ TONI:GHT, Feb. 23 _at 7:30 pm in Carnegie Auditorium ATT,EN·DANCE IS MANDATORY THOUGHT ABOUT SPEAKING AT COMMENCEMENT? THE TOPIC IS YOURS TO CHOOSE. FOUR TO FIVE PAGE (ABOUT 5 MINUTES lONG) SPEECHES ARE BEING ACCEPTED BY MRS. MARRA IN ROOM 408 OF THE COLLEGE CENTER UNTIL THE END OF THE TERM. PEOPLE INTERESTED IN SINGING AT COMMENCEMENT SHOULD ALSO CONTACT MRS. MARRA BY THE END OF THE TERM. frlY !30Y. E3Vf3KY MOKN/1-1& fOf\ 6/&HT YEI/f?~ NOW FIFTY Mtt.tmN R~AtJeRfJ HAVe Wf!TCH6/J YOV WfTHOVT ANY ClOlff€,6 ON. / ' .. ·~ ~ .· /::... ·~.::/;,\·~·. ,.

1. Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS February 23, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Need Party Favors? Call Sean or Jenn! We specialize in slimy blue filled with creamy fcnch vanilla ice cream. Perfect for any celebration! Brand- Let's get together ne.xi Saturday and build a bomb! Love, Lina Caveman- Congratulations! You're going to hydroplane all the way to Nou·e Dame! Awesome Job! Love, Janice Sheri- Happy Birthday! Hope you have a great birthday and get psyched for a super weekend. LoveRisa Robin- Beware of French Vani'lla icc cream in blue wrappings. Top This. Sean & Jen. Dimples, Thanx for an incredible weekend of foreign cars, cheap . champagne, clothes swapping, and fine cuisine (Dunkin' · Donuts of course!). -The Flannel Penquin Man · TheTeam- 4 x 400, or is that 4 x 200? · Congrats on a great run, even though L.II.U. might not ·agree. The Team- Quotes of the trip: \Should be just a half an hour now\ and \Shut the hell , I\ up ..... We have breast anq knee fetishes and live for spandex. Our names are Bob Doug and Hans.· Happy Birthday Sheri! Love, Taj To Our \Moms\- Our stomachs still hurt from the chocolate chip cookie dough ... that's hazing ... how many OAX's do you think we killed that night? Katie, Come on a $15.00 bail isn't that much!! Pledges must do what pledges must do! Love You! Wendy. Happy Birthday, Kerry!! Love, MB & Your floor WTG- Monday & Wednesday ... Anxiously.awaiting your return . Sunday ·night...I'll be home if · you want to borrow my notes; or something. Glupia! Buvez! Quaff! Swill! Indo-China! Imbibe! or, just plain ... DRINK! ! ! ORIENTATION COMMITTEE FOR -THE CLASS OF 1993 Applications are now being accepted for the Orientation Committee. All returning students who wHI be in residence for Spring & Fall terms are welcome to apply. Please pick up an application in the Dean of Students Office, College Center 306, by March 3rd. WRUC TRIVIA UPDATE Phi Neat Guys, Team Ed, and Smith Hous~ are leading their categories. Tune in Sunday at 8:00 PM for the final climactic night of · Trivia '89. .. Don'·t forget this week's bonus question: . Name as many WRUC dj's, as possible, who have hosted radio shows in the time slots between 6:00 PM and midnight since fall term of the 1985-86 school year. Many thanks to this year's Trivia Underwriters:· Dream Machine Blvd. Bowl Hair Statement Superior Barber Shop Falvo's Florist I Love New York Pizza Castelos Rest. . Leeder's Video Peter Pause Rest. Ponderosa. Rest. Manhattan Exchange Fireside Rest. Michelle's Rest. Ben & Jerry's Rest. Dambrose Cleaners Morrette's King Steakbouse ~uaH~ / . Kibbles, . Allie,. BEW ARE ... of the unexpected. , I love you always & f'orevetl ·. -Bits. Lustfully, Damon. H Mr M k J .. W.., · · ey · · · aw • Are you in love againZ! I don't feel poopy anymore. . I'm sure this time it will ·be Good-bye I Lean- Where did you learn how to spell? Squirrel- We can fix the window, we can fix the bathroom. But, can you fix your life. The House· DELTA's- Get psyched for a gret formal Friday night! ! Leash- Only 3 weeks left, and six resolutions to break! We'd better get started quick!· J.K., How's the life of Rich & Famous treating you? Cornelius- Let's go over our six resolutions! Jessy- 7 week ain't bad! We love you anyway! Cmds & Leash. Steph- Here's to spring tetm! Kaf-· · • .,. , ·· To the Best Big Sister ever! Thanxs! Love, Alysia. Jen, · different! Jennifer Campbell, Happy 19th Birthday! Love, Leash & Fox 252 Ceece, Don't be SADD about your thesis - it'.U be over seon!! Besides, in 24 days we'll be on the BEA.CHES! It'll be splendifercus!! . Go to Bath!! ! · Go to Bath!!! Go to Bath!'!! Love, Hill. Does the Union . male population know what it's missing? There's only 13 weeks left to purchase the \Rentable girls\ - open to all wine and <line occasions a-nd more fun than you can imagine! In strong demand! ' Happy B'Day Mona! Welcome to the wonderful world of Gepetto's Friday Happy Hours! Glad to have you aboard theluggage club! . L&K ElF & RIAC & KIU - · Only 23 da:ys! -E. pi tome of Perfecti.on Coffee~ , · Hope yoti1get the chip ·orf your · shoulder soon and the plane: is hijacked. Wishing you luck, as always you. 'daring' girl! · Quiche. Thanks for being the best big Desperately Seeking a Vacu11m sister ever! ' - 301 Sew·a:rd being overrurrby Love, Cords. · dust bunnies. Please save us! • < l 28 APRIL.I989 The illtimate Celebration Senior Spring Ball S .Jil\ s . ·une o1ree a · ouven1r DON'T MISS lJ[XJ~ w . .o~rxJ~o&~~ Philadelphia's Dance-Rock Sensation FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24 AT 9:00 CARNEGIE .ATRIUM . . ANOTHER FREE SHOW SPONSOREI;) BY CONCERT COMMITTEE

' \ Now Hiring Men.& Women . CONCORDIENSIS February 23, 1989 Page 21 . THE NEWMANcLUB · THE Cordially invite all to attend a LENTEN RE.PAST· ECONOMICS CLUB . . will be sponsoring a· lunch table on . RUISE SHI · A dinner skillfully prepared by John CiarduDo and Bill Boyd Sun., Feb. 26; 1989 at 5:00p.m. Thursdays Feb. 9- March 9 11:30 .. 12:30 in CC 302 JOBS! $12.·,oao to $50,0~0 (co~ner of Nott Street and Seward Pla~e) ~~~7:) Call now!. 1-206-736-7000 Please RSVP by f!'ri., Feb:'24. . ' • All are welcom.e to come meet the club and the department faculty. John a72g0979; Bin 372-5120 Free Admittance Informal attire prefered (Vegl'!tarian option av<~oilable) SENIORS:IN ALL-MAJORS · The Allen Prize in non-fiction is .for you -Deadline March29 Ask for information i~ the Engli~h Dept. Homesick? · Can't sleep at night? Let Theta Delta Chi TUCK YOU IN! $f.OO Donation gets you a bed-time story and a tuck in just like home ... well almost. To benefi~ the American Cancer Society Look for sign up booths !H!! . \Besfof Luck'' to Coach Delrenthal and the · skating Dutchmen in the :E.C.A.C. Playoffs . from the . . . t... rl, r 1 wt\ \5ytellQ)1 r==::;:, ___ f/} '\~~ RATHSKELLAR ~ /~)~ f\( I; l <. ·, -1\..J[ \. i /' v \\'· •. ~ I ~~~ ~~\ -..'-._.!._.--../~ ·To all students and staff who show school spirit and attend Saturday~s -Home Game: Save your tickefstub and redeem it, only at the Skellar, for a FREE SMs SODA. Offer\valid from 2-26-89 to 3-1-89 Not valid towards Meal Card Credit. KeeP your parents infro~ed: Have theDl subscribe to CONCORDIENSIS ·. 3 terms for $30 . ., - ,----~-------------~---------------~---~~-----------------------~ ! Name: : ' I : Address: ' ' ' ' ' . ' ' . ' ' Return with. check payable to CONCORDIENSIS to: CONCORDIENSIS, Box 2577, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 ' . ' ' ' ' ~-~~---~--~--------~-----~~-------~-----~--------------------·~· I

I· Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS. Feb11uurry 23, 1989 Co,urtney Lynch Awarded The Alban,y' Chamber Of Commerce's Col.leg,~ate Fema:le Athlete Of The Year By MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports Editor performances in both lacrosse and field hockey. The lacrosse season is just around the comer and for Lynch it should be a rewarding one. She is on the verge .of becoming the team's all-time leading scorer. She has been a starter on the team since her freshman year, and has already earned All-State honors. athlete at Union}, a.md the Penn Monto Coaches .A:ssociation Division III AH-h:meridcan Second Team. She:. llas also been the Athl·ete mf tbe Week for The Conc:o uliensJs numerous times. Senior Courtney Lynch was awarded the Albany Chamber of Commerce's Collegiate Female Athlete of the Year last Wednesday night at a dinner in Albany. The dinner was held to honor nine local amateur athletes in various sports. Former Chicago Bears' irreat Following this past field Field hockey coe~h Charlyn Roberts spoke hlighly of Courtney. She was especially impressed with Cortney's ability to play het be:St games when the team neede:d her to, specifically in tile ECAC tournament. - .. · '.- ~ t:. ::, xr Lynch seemed qtri~lmmbled by winning the Femlllc Athlete of the Year awartl, \It was a great honor, bent I was somewhat. embarrassed by the whole thing. I keJJt 1thinking, 'What am I doing h~ere?\' She explained that alth()ugh the other athletes· th.ere were supposed to be 'on her level'. she couldn't help :feoeting a bit out of place. Everyo0m~ who has watched Lynch over the past 3- l/2 years knows thttt this is completely absurd; Lynch has proved herself wLth both her athletic abilities a11d through leadership. She is a ~.ery well- deserving recipicent of the award. Ly-nch thmnked her parents, her coaclles, and George Cuttita, tile Sports Inforamtion Direct.or, for all of their help. Again, congratulations to !C•ourtney on this prestigious al1d weli- deseiVed award - (.) UJ ~ 0 UJ Ul >- en 0 ~ 0.. Courtney Lynch Ga1c Sayers, former New York h<Jckcy season, Lynch was Knick Dave DeBusschcre, New honored with several awards for York Giants' center Bart Oates her part in the team's 17-1 and Toronto Blue Jays pitcher season. She was named to the John Cerutti were among those Mid-Atlantic Region's First who attended. Team All-American, and the The award that Lynch won New York State All-State First was in recognition for her Team (both firsts for a female Playoff Seedings and Ticket Info ECAC l£~51 PlilJ:!!ff Standing~ NCAA Rankings Rrr·~ - 19-2-1 Wisconsin Stevens Point Hamilton 17-6 Bowdoin UNION 15-6-1 RIT Elmira 14-7 Wisconsin Equ Claire Oqwego 17-8-1 Babson .. Canisius 13-9 Bemidji Geneseo 14-13-1 Plattsburgh Cortland 1 1- 11 UNION Playoff Matchups: Mankato 1 vs 8, 2 vs 7, 3 vs 6, 4 vs 5 St. Thomas (MN) Ticket. Information: Prices: Tickets will be on sale at the Rink at the following times: Achilles $4 - General Admission $6 - Reserved 2'7-4 18-3. 20-6 15-9-4 18-7 16-10-2 20-5-1 16-6-1 112-12-4 IlS-10 Thursday and Friday 9-7 $2 Student/General Admi:ss:ion -w/ID Saturday 3-until game time THETA DELTA CHI CONGRATULATES ED ADESON AND KATE KAUFMAN FOR WINNING OUR Raquetball ToUr.nament We would like to thank the followirlg area business leaders for their generous oontributions: Student Activities-Tickets for CATS at Proctors $20 Meal at the Manhattan Exchange A haircut and blowdry at Shenanigans 1 of 4 Domino's Pizzas $8 services at Charles IT Hair Salon $15 gift certificate at The Open Doo:t books 1 of 10 pizzas from I Love NY Pizza Lunah for 2 at Four Seasons 1 of2 12-cut pizzas with 2 toppings from Castelo's 1 of10 Jim Dandy Sundaes from Friendly's 1 of 5 ice cream cones from Ben & Jerry's An oil change at Rapid Oil Change We also thank all participants for helping us support the ARTHRITIS FOUNDATION Men's Trac·k Surprises Conference While·Freshman Leads Women's ·Team By HANS SCHWARZ RPI InvitationaL The men•s track teatn Meanwhile, the women's uaveJ,ed to Fordham and track team competed at the Southern Connecticut State Collegiate Track Conference at University tast weekend to, Southern Cerinecticut State compete in the Collegiate Uni\iersity. Although they Trac.k · Conference competed in this conference Championshi]l Meet. This is this year for the first time, they the first year' that the men's were able to place 13th of over team has c()mpeted in thi~ 30 teams. the conference . conference, composed of more consists of mostly Division I, . than tuilf Division I teams and as well as many Division II many Division II teams .. The teams. The Union Dutchmen team, however, rose to the were led by the incredible occasion, firlishing a strong perforrnanc~ of the frekhmari ninth place in. a field of more Alix Goldschmidt: She not than30 teams. Thernen's team only placed sixth in the shot, got out to a quick start by .with a put of 10.90 meters, but winning 16 p()ints at Fordham also captured a fifth place in on Fijday ni~ht. Jim Campoli the weight throw, with a throw gave Union tbe push it needed of 36'9 .5\. An outstanding with .an incredible first place result was also turned in by finish in the racewalk. Chip. Rika Poor, with a personal Silver added to that with an best in her 400 of the 4x400; impressive tbiid place in the with a time of t :01.51. pentathlon. On Sunday, the Additional strong showings men continued to do well were by Meg Strolla in the 800 boosted by remarkable meters, 2:26.87, and Liz showings from the field events. Dobbs in the 55 meter hUrdles, Matt Guyette finished fourth in 9 ;68. These fine performances the shot put and Mike as well as others showed that Sirowich captured sixth place the team can be competitive · in the weight throw. Fine against even such· a 'high- running performances were also caliber conference. This turned in by .Steve Ifuyes in the weekend, the women's track 400 meters, 52.69, and Bob team will be tra· Jeing to Lindyberg in the 800meter leg _ Hartwick College r the New f th DMR 2 06 . 94 o an York: State Trac' and· Field o e · · , • : · . . · · ver • , . the Running Outchmen were Championships. . . able to secor~ respect in a very The men's and women's track strong conference by sho~ing .. .warns would like tQ \publicly . their ability to perform well as thank the Sirowi~h family for a team. This Saturday . the . its gracious hospitality and · men's. team will compete at the support over the weekend. Hockey. Stats - I· PLAYER G.AM G A PTS PLUS M TN US . +I- Terry Camp be11 23 16 24 . 4'd 22 5 +17 Guy Logan 23 19 7 '26 29 18 +11 Dan Gould 23 11 ·:15 /2·6 12 6· +6 ·era i 9 Ferrero 23 6 19 '25 28 Hl +10 Bill .Rq.iiton 23 7. 15 22. 15 5 .+iO Bi 11 Sedergren 23 4 15 1.9 29 ' . 17 +~2 . Marc Goguen 22' 7 10 17 19 7 '+12 Scott Whitney 2 3. 1 \13 14 25 13 4!2 Peter Cotier' ?2 . 3 10 \ 13 24 1'6 .,.8 Pau1 ~uUivan 16 5 7 12 14 9. 4-5 Scott Manley 23 2 8 10 . 24 16 +8 Tim Cregan· 23 7 2 9 9 6· +3 .. Dalton Menhall 21 6 3 9 12 .g +3 Rick c 1 i. f f 0 }:.,0 -· 17 ,.~ 5 8 14 4 .. +10 5 . . Nick Barafoff 21 4 5 7 - 2 Ch-ris D'Orio 17 2 2 4 7 6 +1 ph fl Mcl.aughlin· 3 2 2 4 5 2 +3' · Oar. ·Gustafson 11 2 1 3 3 3 0 David M 0'0 dy 6 2 1 3 6 7 -1· Br'i an Lucey 23 0 3 3 19 10 +9 Rich Burchill 12 0 1 1 3 3 0. Brian Geraghty 8 0 1 1 2 3 -i Keith Robertson 8 0 0 0 6 3 +3 Ron Kinghorn 22 0 0 0 0 0 o· Peter Heimdahl 1 0 0 0 0 0 . 0 . Shayne White 1 0 0 0 0 0 0· TEAM -- - ... ----- - - --- -- - ...... _------ ---- !\\..;, ... - - ;,.,. - -··----...;. -- - Dutchmen 23 106 168 274 332 193 OPPONENIS 2.3 65 94 159 193 332 GA GOALIE. GAM GS w L T AVG ShO Shane White 1 0 0 0 0 '(). 00 .o Ron. King h,()t n 22 22 16 5 1 2.55 3 Peter He i 111 <I a h l 1 1 0 1 0 7.14 0 EMPTY-NET ~~---·-------------------------~--------- Dutchmen OPPONENTS 23 23 16 6 1 23 23 6 16 1 2. 77 4.52 3 0 +139 -139' $V PCT ... 000 • 9'12 . 708 .903 .885

~ UJ ~ z (jj ::::> C/) Eii f2 ~ ' CONCORDIENSIS February 23, 1989 :-. Athletes Of The Week Lady Dutchmen Place Fourth In State ~eet; S~nd Fo·ur To T-he ·Nationals' ,., By Sports lnformation Office The Union College women's swim team posted its best perf01;mance ever ~n the New York. State Division III Swi;ffl,min~ and Diving Championships last weekend when the Lady Dutchmen placed fourth among the 16 teams. Not only did the squad compile 513.5 points,· Union t:' -, ... · event with a '1:00.74, both qualified for the· national meet. Freshman Anne ·. GHcksm~m qualified in the 100 backstroke with her trial time of 1:03.22. Her final time of 1:04.23 earned her fourth place~ The 400 medley relay team of Glicksman, freshman Jen Joyce, Cutrone, and Kavaney placed thild in the state with their 4: 15.07, also good e~ough to qualify for· the . 1:4().51, the 400 relay team of Dorse~ Halsdbrf, O'Neill, and Kavaney placed 5th with a 3:49.83. Eleven meet records were set during the three days, ejght by Ithaca, which won its fourth- straight title with 815 points. William Smith took second with· 574 and Hartwick third with 566. St. Lawrence finished in fifth place with 361 points. Jen Joyce, Kate Ka:vaney, Anne Glicksman andJeanne Cutrone .• pictured abo~ e. are all head~d to Notre Dame on March 11 for the Nationals in swimming, They are the ftrst women swimmers from .l1mon to ever participate in the National Competition. Their efforts have earned them the Athletes of the Week. SPORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ As spring approaches, what. has become a yearly tradition is jump starting many baseball • fans from their long winter's sleep. Salary arbitration has · become an expected occl'lfance · which points out how · conscious ·people are of what others earn. It is often an ugly, . bitter struggle that pits the poor. deserving players against the greedy owners. Often, the result of these unsettled disputes is disastrous. Two years ago, coming of an All- . . Star season, Boston Red Sox catcher Rich Gedman missed all of spring training and suffered through an injury- . plagued, unproductive season . because he didn't think he was being paid enough. Because of the money involved in operating professional franchises, and the profit that the players' efforts generate, athlete's salaries can be understood. When playors go to arbitration, it is because they consider that their talents are worth more than they are being paid. Often, this is the case. For iristance, Glenn Davis had toiled in anonymity for the Houston Astros · and now has a salary expected of a player of his caliber. The players decide this by comparing their performances, Page 23 measured most easily by some statistics, against that of other players who make more than they do. Though this is not a condemnable practice, some players overestimate their market value. Among the p.layers who are guilty of this is the Texas Rangers' Pete lncavilia. His case is an e.xample of what happens when a player exagget:ates his abiJlity and worth to his team. Incavilia is a threat to hit a home run whenever he steps to the plate. However, he also led the league in strikeouts, did not hit for a very lofty average (he probably hit around his weight), and should work a little on his fielding. Arc these the credentials of a baseball player who should cam nearly eight and half hundred thousaHd dollars? An indication of the answer to this question is that the Rangers offered him a little over half of what he wanted. Advantages and drawbacks to arbitration exist. Some may view it as a necessary evil which results in players measuring their ability and worth to their teams by their paycheck. However, salary arbritation is a system where the good outweighs the bad, and players do get what they deserve. finished in the championship flight in 21 .of 24 events, Catl1e away with a record-holding state champion, and qualified four women for the NCAA meet (to be held the week((Iid of March 11 at Notre Dame U~iversity.) The four swimmers. Kate Kavaney, Aline Glicksman, Jeanne Cutrone and Jen Joyce, have been selected as Athletes of the Week for their outstanding . accomplishments. Glicksman was 1Oth with 68 points. Other highlights of the individual events for Unionn included: 3rd in the 200 medley relay witb a 1:59.14, sophomore Pam Fiedler. Joyce, ·freshman Melita Walsh, and freshman Amy O'Neill. Mouthiilg Off \I couldn't be prouder,\ beamed head coach Susan Bassett, who has led Union to consecutive 8-1 regular-season finishes; \Union has never had a woman qualify for the nationals and we're sending four this year. We've never·had a state champion and now we've got a record-holding champion.\ \To have come up with such a stellar performance is a credit . to the entire team,\ Bassett continued. \Everyone worked extremely hard all yeat long. I'm very, very proud of everyone.;, Junior Kathy Kavaney became the first Union woman to capture a stttte ti~e when She won the 100 fly wtth a 1:00.11 on ·opening day. Her 59.83 time in the trials Stands as a state record. Kavaney, along with freshman Jeanne Cutrone~ who finished fourth in the NCAA meet. In the individual competition, Kavaney 'placed fourth with ~0 points, 11 behipd the winner, while \Union has never had a woman qualify for the nationals and we•re sending four this year. We've never had a state champion and now we've got a record~holding champlon.\ · Kavaney, aside from her performance in the 100 fly, 6th in the 50 free, 25.77; 2nd in the 50 fly. 27 .64; 4th in the 100 free, 55.88; and 5th in the 200 fly, 2:17.65, Glicksman, aside from her performance in the 100 back, 2nd in the 200 back, 2:17.66; 8th in the 200 free, 2:03.97; and 5th in 50 back, 30.19, Joyce finished 3rd in the 50 breast, 32.28; 5th in the 200 breast,. 2:37.11; and 5th in the 100 breast, 1: 11.66~ Cutrone placed second in the 200 fly, 2:15.80~ freshman Kerstin Dorse- 6th in the 500 free, 5:29.44; 6th in the 200 lM.~ 2:20.43;' 7th in the 400 I.M., 4:57.67; 4th ·in the 1650 free; 18:35.42, and 8th in the 200 fly, 2:22.3'5., the 800 free relay team of Walsh, Halsdbrf, Fiedler and O'Neill to.ok third wi.th a .. By ANDY BRAVER O.K.,. look. People have a problem accepting the fact that athletes get paid such exorbitant amounts of money to d() something that they love, and to entertain people. I do not deny the fact that salaries ate tremendous, and they should definitely be reduced. But not until the owners give back some of their increasing ptofits. I want to focus on America's natienal pasttime, basebalL The :Major Leagues just signed · a new tv contract with CBS; where they will be paid in · excess of $1.1 billion for the rights to tele~ise a few regular games, the Divisional Play- . offs, and The World Series. A . $400 million contract was also signed with ESPN, who will begin televising four to five games a week. (For those ·rinterested, the New York . , Yankees signed. at1 agreement with the Madison Square . Garden Network. MSG will pay $500 million dollars to the Yankees, and in return, they get the right to televise 160 Yankee games a year for lO years. Not bad for local TV coverage, eh George?!!) That to me soulds like an exorbitant amount of money, and this is from where the problem stems. The owners make more moneu form the increased revenue in the TV contract. That is why guys like Orel Hershiser are making over $7.5 milliM dollars in three years. Do the owners care that they are paying out an additional $5 · million. if they are going to make an additional $20 million. I do not think so. The way I see it, player salaries should keep increasing. That way, the people who really deserve most of the profits are getting them. The players are the ones who sweat, hurt, .sacrifice and bleed. They should be the people who are given the financial security blanket. Think about this for a moment: What do you need to buy and own a baseball team today'! Simple-money, and lots of it. Here is a proposition for some of the more generous and caring owners in the league. Keep trying to build your profits to new highs. But don't keep the money; give it to the needy. to charities, and put it back in the community. There is no reason for them to keep making more money at the public's expense if their coffers are already bulging. And until the rv contracts are reduced, players' salaries will continue to increase. What really bugs me about the entire situation is that George Steinbrenner can make millions more after signing the con~acts, but sti.ll cry about the fact that hts team's payroll is too high. Strange, isn't it? They try to hide the fact that they are prospering, while at the same time yell at the players for demanding so much money . The owners should blame themselves for the same thing . Congratulations to the Jetsons for Winning The Women's Intramural BroombaU Championship

·1··' C· ·hT··· · · t s ru,nc· ·. 1me Fo:r, The Hoop Team By SCOTT ADAMS Associa,te Sports Editor Having produced only one win in thr.ee important games last week, the men's basketball team failed to reverse a slide that has seen them lose four of their last six games. Now 10- 10, the Dutchmen are glad to have put their last road game behind them; they won only 2 of 10 away games this season. The team's chances of receiving an ECAC Upstate· New York playoff berth now seem unlikely. With their remaining four games within the friendly confines of Memorial Field House; however, they still have a sllot at post-season play. The one Dutchman high point last week, a 69-62 win over Clarkson, improved their home reccHd to 8-2, but was sandwiched between tough road losses to Middlebury (68-65) and Nazareth (81-78 in overtime). In all three games the team missed the services of starting freshman point guard Paul Brindle who is out for the rest of the season ·with mononucleosis. Brindle had often sparked the team in important situations with his fine passing and outside shooting skills; he averaged 9.6 points and 6.3 assists per game. Brindle's talents were most missed in the Middlebury game. While Doug Gregory (11 points, 12 rebounds, 5 assists) and Elgin Rhodes (17 points, 3 steals) came through with solid ]Jerformanccs inside, the four Dutchmen guards combined for just 12 points and 5 assists. Union had lead throughout the game but down the stretch found the referees adding to. not regulating, the competition. Middlebury went to the line 27 times in the game to Union's 8 and both Gregory and Rhodes were lost to fouls by the 3:49 mark: The inexperienced Dutchman team that was left on the floor could not hold back a surging Panthers squad in the final minutes. ln the home victory against Clarkson, the Dutchmen got more help from their guards as Jerry Brescia had 10 points and 9 rebounds and Scott Gibbs came off the bench to score 8. After being down at the half 28-33,. the Dutchmen pulled it! together in the second half, as .they have done all season at the · field house. They took the lead for good on a hoop by Rhodes with tet1 minutes to play. Rhodes finished the game with 18 points and 8 rebounds. Gregory .helped ttie Dutchman puU away as he scor~d 8 points in a 10-2 spurt late m the game. He finished . with 14 points and, with 10 rebounds and 6 blocks. The ovenime loss against Nazareth on Saturday was particularly tough to swallow. Over the final 3:50 .of the first · half, they went on a 7-2 spurt that was highlighted by an inside hoop by senior captain Joe \Booby\ Scott with 2 seconds remaining. his fir.st field goal of the season. That tied the score at 40's as the buzzer .sounded~ · After slipping to trail 56-66 with under 8 minutes remaining in the game, the Dutchmen came on fire with 10 .straight points to tie the score. And witll, possession of the ball and the. score again deadlocked at 73's, they had an · opportunity to win tbe game outright with 32 seconds left. But an apparent foul on Rhodes was ••ot called when he had the baH stripped from him as regulation ended. In the overtime period, the score was tied once more 78- . . 78, from 2;16 down to the 3 second mark when a questionable foul was called 011 I Gregory tllat enabled Nazareth center Mike Funke to win ,the game from the line. With just the four home games remaining, it is now crunch time for the .500 Dutchmen. The games are against Norwich, Rochester, Alfred and Skidmore, all of 1 which have respectable squads. For the purposesof the ECAC Tournament, the first three games will be most important, · · since bids come out before the· Skidmore game. The Dutchmen will have to win at . least two and probably all three , games to be awarded one of those bids. They could certainly use ' plenty of support in their efforts. The Rochester game • will begin at 8:00 tomorrow night at the field house and the Alfred game will be at 2:00 on Saturday. February ~3, 1989 Ron Kinghorn will lead Union into the playoffs. Union finished1he $eason at 17•~~1·. . Skating Dutchmen Seeded· T'hir·d; · Host Canisius On Saturday. By ANDR·EW SEEWALD The Union College hockey tearn trounced St. Anselm 8.:0 Saturday night at Achilles Rink. After the victory, all that the Dutchmen could do was to wait until Monday morning when the seeding committee would let them know if they would be seeded second or l;hird . in the ECAC Division II West tournament.· RIT, which beat the Dutchmen 6-3 at Achilles on February 4th had the top seed locked up with a 19-2-1 record. The question was whether Hamilton, 17-6, or Union, 15- 6-1, would be next. The Union camp was hoping that the slightly better record of the Continentals would be overlook<:<d in favor of the tougher schedule that the Dutchmen played .. This was not the case as the committee gave the edge to Hamilton. The difference between bemg seeded second or third is that, should there not be any upsets in the first round, Union would · have to travel . to Hamilton Wedn~day night for the second round. This .season, the teams split their home and home series, with the DUtchmen winning 5-2 at Achilles, and the Continentals winning 6-4 at Sage Rink in Clinton,. N.Y. Still, the Dutchmen would look forward to such a confrontation with confidence. \There's terrific animosity between the schools in sports,\ said junior defenseman Peter totier. i•we're a better team. Last time {at Hamilton) they had four power:.play goals. If we play them five on five we should have no problem, regardless of the crowd or · where we play them.\ \We're at the top of our game right now. that's the way it should be going into the playoffs;\ continued Cotier, who. 1 paired with sophomore B:ijl Sedergren, is enjoying his. finest season with 3 goals and 10 assists. \We cap't ask for a better position. We have to take it one game at a time. It doesn't matter whether we play them here or .there, we'll beat them.\ Union coach Bruce Delventhal said \You have to win three games home or away. We'v~ .actually played better on t·be road. What are we, 7-2-1 on the road?\ With a. win last Tuesday night at Middlebury in the regular season finale, the Dutchmen would be 7 -2.,.1 on the road. \It matters for the . . . NCAA (tournament),\ said Delventha1 of the Middlebury game. \We need as many wins as ~e can get. Plus, you want to keep on playing well going into the playoffs.\ · The playoffs will open Saturday night at Achilles Rink against Canisius. The Dutchmen blanked Canisius 6- 0 at Nichols Arena ()n January 22nd. · \If we don't play as hard as we can, they can upset us,\ said Cotier. ' 1 The season could end on Saturday night if we don'tplayhard.\ . The Dutchmen certainly played hard last Saturday. Guy Logan would end up with a hat trick (3 goals), Terry Campbell would score four p· oints and . . ' Phil McLaughlin; Craig Ferrero, and Paul Sullivan would all score three. But it was goalie Ron Kinghorn who kept Union in it before a five goal second period outburst \I lhought he played great until we got going, and then he still playe.d great,\ said Delventhal, \He made some key saves early when we needed it, . and during the penalty killing to keep us alive.\ Kinghorn is now 16-'5-1 with a 2.55 goals .against average and 3 shutouts. He was also named ECAC Goalie cf the Week for the third time this season. Ferrero, who· had one goal and four assists in two games, was named Rookie of tlle Once the Dutchmen got their offense going, it was lights out for the Hawks in· a hurry. Logan, whose 19 goals lea~ the teap-1. sc~red at the 19 secoad mark of the second period to preak a scoreless tie, and the Dutchmen never looked back. · Logan finished the hat trick at 6:45 of the third period. While shorthanded, Tim Cregan set up. Logan for a stuff shot, and a lone hat fell onto the ice from among the Union faithful. The Dutchmen then coasted the rest of the way' although there was some sentiment among the crowd to get Terry Campbe-ll, the le-ading scorer on the team with 40 points, a hat trick of his own. \I didn't want to rub it in,\ said Delventhal. \You never want to humiliate anyone. Bout if a player says. something to me, I'll work with him.\ · Perhaps Co tier summed it up best when he said, \Individual statistics don't really matter to us~·~ The one statistic that does matter is to win three playoff games, which would mean a championship. All Dutchmen playoff Cl:ction, .home and away, can be heard on 89~ 7 FM WRUC. SUPPORT THE HOCKEY TEAM lN THE ECAC WEST PLAY·OFFS! r

r·........--:-:----------------------- ........... :It's Cru:nch· Time For The Hoop Team By SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Editor Having produced only one win in three important games last week, the men's basketbal'l team failed to reverse a slide that has seen them lose four of their last six games. Now 10- 10, the Dutchmen are glad to have put their last road game behind them; they won only 2 of 10 away games this season. The teatn's chances of receiving an ECAC Upstate New York playoff berth now seem unlikely. With their remaining four games within the friendly confines of Memorial Field House; however, they still have a shot at post-season play. The one Dutchman high point last week, a 69-62 win over Clarkson, improved their home record to 8-2, but was sandwiched between tough road losses to Middlebnry (68-65) and Nazareth (81-78 in overtime). In all three games the team missed the services of starting freshman point guard Paul Brindle who is out for the rest of the season with mononucleosis. Brindle had often sparked the team in important situations with his fine passing and outside shooting skills; he averaged 9.6 points and 6.3 assists per game. Brindle's talents were most missed in the Middlebury game. While Doug Gregory (11 points, 12 rebounds, 5 assists) and Elgin Rhodes (17 points, 3 steals) came through witll solid performances inside, the four Dutchmen guards combined for just 12 points and 5 assists. Union had lead throughout the game but down the stretch found the referees adding to, not regulating, the competition. Middlebury went to the line 27 times in the game to Union's 8 and both Gregory and Rhodes were lost to fouls by the 3:49 mark. The inexperienced Dutchman team that was left on the floor could not hold back a surging Panthers squad in the final minutes. In the home victory against Clarkson, the Dutchmen got more help from their guards as Jerry Brescia had 10 points and 9 rebounds and Scott Gibbs cmnc off the bench lO score 8. Aft~r being down at the half 28-33, the Dutchmen pulled it. together in the second half, as lhey have done all season at the field house. They took the lead for good on a hoop by Rhodes with ten minutes to play. Rhodes finished the game with 18 points and & rebounds. Gregory helped the Dutchman pull away as he :scored 8 points in a 10-2 spurt late in the game. He finished with 14 points and, with 10 rebounds and 6 blocks. The overtime loss against Nazareth on Saturday was particularly tough to swallow. Over the final 3:50 of the first half, they went on a 7-2 spurt that was highlighted by an i.nside hoop by senior captain Joe \Booby\ Scott with 2 seconds remaining, his first field goal of the season. That tied the score at 40's as the buzzer sounded. After slipping to trail 56-66 with under 8 minutes remaining in the game, the Dutchmen came on fire with 10 straight points to tie the score. And with possession of the ball and the score again deadlocked at 73's, they had an opportunity to win the game outright with 32 seconds left. But an apparent foul on Rhodes was iaOl called when he had the ball stripped from him as regulation ended. In the overtime period, the score was tied once more, 78- 78, from 2:16 down to the 3 second mark when a questionable foul was called on · Gregory that enabled Nazareth center Mike Funke to win the game from the line. With just the four home games remaining, it is now crunch time for the .500 Dutchmen. The games are against Norwich, Rochester, Alfred and Skidmore, all of which have respectable squads. For the purposes of the ECAC Tournament, the first three games will be most important, since bids come out before the Skid more game. The Dutchmen will have to win at least two and probably all three games to be awarded one of those bids. They could certainly use plenty of support in their efforts. The Rochester game will begin at 8:00 tomorrow night at the field house and the Alfred game will be at 2:00 on Saturday. February 23, 1989 Ron Kinghorn will .lead Union into the playeffs. Union finished the season at 17-6-1. Skating Dutchmen Seeded Third· Host Canisius On Saturday ' By ANDREW SEEWALD The Union College hockey team trounced St. Anselm 8-0 Saturday night at Achilles Rink. After the victory, all that the Dutchmen coald do was to wait until Monday morning when the seeding committee would let them know if they would be seeded second or third in the ECAC Division II West tournament. RIT, which beat the Dutchmen 6-3 at AchiUes on February 4th had the top seed locked up with a 19-2-1 record. The question was whether Hamilton, 17-6, or Union, 15- 6-1, would be next. The Union camp was hoping that the slightly better record of the Continentals would be overlooked in favor of the tougher schedule that the Dutchmen played. This was not the case as the committee gave the edge to Hamilton. The difference between being seeded second or third is that, should there not be any upsets in the first round, Union would have to travel to Hamilton Wednesday night for the second round. This season, the teams split their home and home series, with the DUtchmen winning 5-2 at Achilles, and the Continentals winning 6-4 at Sage Rink in Clinton, N.Y. Still, the Dutchmen would look forward to such a confrontation with confidence. \There's terrific animosity between the schools in sports,\ said junior defenseman Peter Coticr. \We're a better team. Last time (at Hamilton) they had four power-play goals. If we play them five on five we should have no problem, regardless of the crowd or where we play them. II \We're at the top of our game right n()W. That's the way it should he going into the playoffs,\ continued Cotier, who, paired witll sophomore Bill Sedergren, is enjoying his finest season witll 3 goals and lO assists. \We can't ask for a better positioll. We have to take it one game at a time. It doesn't matter wllether we play them here or thexe, we'll beat them.\ Union coach Bruce Delventhal said \You have to win three games home or away. We've actually played better on the read. What are we, 7-2-1 on the road?\ With a win last Tuesday night at Middlebury in the regular seas011 finale, the Dutchmen wo11lcl be 7-2-1 on the road. \It matters for the NCAA (tournament),\ said Delventhal of t.be Middlebury game. \We need as many wins as we can get. Plus, you want to keep on playing well going into the playoffs.\ The play()ffs will open Saturday night at Achilles Rink against Canisius. The Dutchmen bla11ke.<l Canisius 6- 0 at Nichols Are11a on January 22nd. \If we don't play as hard as we can, they ca11 upset us,\ said Co tier_ \The season could end on SatUiday night if we don't play hard_\ . The Dutcll1nen certainly played hard last Saturday. Guy Logan would end up with a hat trick (3 goals), Terry Campbell would score four points, and Phil McLaughlin, Craig Ferrero, and Paul Sullivan would all score three. But it was goalie Ron Kinghorn who kept Union in it before a five goal second period outburst. \I thought he played great until we got going, and then he still played great,\ said Delventhal, \He made some key saves early when we needed it, and during the penalty killing to keep us alive. 11 Kinghorn is now 16-5-1 with a 2.55 goals against average and 3 shutouts. He was also named ECAC Goalie of the Week for the third time this season. Ferrero, who had one goal and four assists in two games, was named Rookie of the Once the Dutchmen got their offense going, it was lights out for the Hawks in a hurry. Logan, whose 19 goals lead the team, scored at the 19 second mark of the second period to break a scoreless tie, and the Dutchmen never looked back. Logan finished the hat trick at 6:45 of the third period. While shorthanded, Tim Cregan set up Logan for a stuff shot, and a lone hat fell onto the ice from among the Union faithfuL ihe Dutchmen then coasted the rest of the way, although there was some sentiment among the crowd to get Terry Campbell, the leading scorer on the team with 40 points, a hat trick of his own. \I didn't want to rub it in,\ said Delventhal. \You never want to humiliate anyone. But if a player says something to me, I'll work with him.\ Perhaps Colier summed it up best when he said, \Individual statistics don't really matter to us.\ The one statistic that does matter is to win three playoff games, which would mean a championship. All Dutchmen playoff action, home and away, can be heard on 89.7 FM WRUC. SUPPORT THE HOCKEY TEAM IN THE ECAC WEST PLAYOFFS! ' .

