Vol. CXVIII, No.;, 9 Schenectady,. New York January 19, 1989 President's Voy,age Intended To :Further Develo.p T ~rms To ·China And Japan StQdents See Tighter S·ocial Policy Instated . . ' Mid-Week Parties Prohibited, Old _ Pqlicies R,eite.rated. Forcefully By · Christine Hong Editor•ln-Chief · \Are we serious about this:? The answer is yes,\ commented Dean of Students Joseph Mammola. The buzz of conversation over the new mid-week social ])olicy . spread across the campus last Monday. The news dropped like a bomb 11pan a student body fresh from · :the six week winter break. Dated Mo1:1day 1 January 9, the memorandum rel<msed by the Office of the Dean of Students outlined five social policies that the College has adopted. Fom of these five are ''reaffirmations\ of existing laws; the fifth is referred to as a ·~modjf:icati()n. ~· summarized below: L Social events serving : alcoho'l must prove that . admittance will be \by · invitation only and' restricted in numbet(as providedincoll()g~ , guidelines)\ in order to register . with the College. Furthermore, a house must · designate one of its members as a \contact\ with Sec:urity should assistance be necess;uy. 2: Identification must ,J)e checked at the door. \Only those of legal age may be providedalcoholic beverages.;, Complaints from faculty · . and students members-at- large added to what Ma:q~mola .. escribed as a \m~unt~ng is$.-.~~\ \The last · P<Jint is probably . . . . .· . . ~ .. . . . . the one that lias raised the most 3. Alternatives to alcoltol, . .-. ~ \ _~,.· ·- •::-. · '·'attention·. · It is the on1y one such ·as soit beverages or food, As ·winter te:pn -begjns ·t() · th'at ·calls f()t a. change in the must be made available at s11ch envelo.p everyone and College's present policies. The social events. everything-here at Union,, we · .1r~st restate rules already 4. Fixed.,taps are prohibited. are facedwith·a great deal ()f · -established.\ A violation results in a $50 reflection. It is often benefi~ii!l The fi,.ve policies outlined in fine. to step back and re-evalu~e the letter t() o.fficers of · 5. \Because of contint~ed goals and accomplishments~ fraternities and sororities are co.ntinued on page a liar President John Morris, m a ....-.-------- ...... ~ . ..,.... ........ _____________________ -- ~~f:~l::e:~cr:~~:~~~~: Fratemity.Break--Ins Lead To many things ·at Union which. Tig. hter Security Measu- fes so.me people may nOt recogniZe _ -- . or take for granted.· · · · - · By JAY FREELAND The President has recently News Edutrr· Feturned from a tri]l) to visit Japan and China which was intended to strengthen, lengthen, and understand tlte two terms abroad programs to both of those countries. Tile President and his wife, Enid went to Nanjing, where Uni<>n Students were studying at Nanjing Normal University. Continued on page 4 Two weeks .ago, as students returned to campus from the winter break, many found that · their dorms and fraternities had · · been broken into. Although !:his :h~s happened during past · winter breaks, this year was uncharacteristically rough, especjaliy for tbe fraternities. Among the bouses hit during the break were Alpha Delta Pbi, Delta Cbi. Phi Gamma. Delta, and Psi Upsilon. · Intetna~ional bouse was the , main dorm receiving break-ins · and the most common items ' stolen were stereo equipment and televisions. After setting up extra patrols an~ adding more men to the work force, campus security was able to apprehend and arrest one man in connection with a majority of the crimes. The individual was caught at Alpha Delta Phi while in the process of an attemp.ted burglary. Soon after his arrest, . tlte man adnutted to three other tltefts on carnpt~s. Working in association with the Schenectady Police · Department, Campus Security . was able to recover various . stereo components as well as . ·some jewelry. 'The rest of the stolen articles, howe-ver, · r~main missing and stand little chance of being recovered. The Head of Security at Union College, Paul Mantica., has set up several new programs to strengthen fbe school's security. The stroagest of these involv:es securing ~ll ground level windows. The windows will open far enou.gh to allow for ventilation, but not enough for· an intruder to enter. Security also has a progratn that sends. officers to inspect rooms and give advice on how to make them safer. This can , be arranged by contacting .tlle security office. Other possillle safety measures include the installation of a phone entry system at the entrances t() dorms. This system will albw visitors to call inside to tfle person they are visiting ill order to enter. Mr. Mantica. feels that a system like tltis will help prevent the propping of doors. The best advice that Mr. Mantica can give students is t() keep their rooms locked 2nd doors unpropped. He alS() stresses the importance ()f reporting any suspicious people immooiately. He s&ys Continued on page: 3 STATISTICS ON THE ACADEMIC STANDING OF THE PAST FIVE FRESHMAN CLASSES: Freshman Number Of Class Final percentage class Of: Students on A.W. Size ot students on A.W. 1992 65 527 12.3% 1991' 65 550 11.8%. 1990 90 544 16.5% 1989 76 508 14.9% 1'988 76 530 14.4% Ru·mors of High P/ercentage of Academic Warnin-g Untrue BJ .ELISE FOODY News Editor re-views the records of each student whose term index or cumulative index is below 2.0. A verdict ·ha,s been reached on . If a student who has been the academic status of the placed on special academic Union Class of 1992. Perhaps , warning fails to maintain a 2.0 to th.e surprise of many :. for two consecutive terms, he studen.t~ 1 tl:lis yeat'$ freshman is then temporarily dismissed class fiU'ed telatively· well in .· from the CoU~ge for two term-s of the number of . terms · or a total of Students on.aoademic warning, six montlls. After .this time Dr. Dwight Wolf. Registrar period, the student may submit of the College, stated that out a letter to the Dean of Students of a c:lass of 527 freshmen, requesting readmittance to the sixty-five were placed on College. academic warning. Overall, There is a second form of · this figure par~llels with the dismissal from the College numbet of freshman students which call also be temporary, on a,tademic warning last year. but which also more blatantly Twe11ty-eight students from discourages the student from this yeu-'s freshman class were returning to Union. The placed on academic warning. student is urged to transfer to These stndents received a term another school and not to index between 1.6 and 2.0. return here after their six- Last year's freshman class month leave of absence. For numbered thirty students in · various reasons the College this category. believes that the student would This year thirty-seven be better off in another type of freshman students were placed environment. on special academic warning. Finally, after every attempt This in<licates that the students has been made to guide the maintained less than a 1.6 term student tllrought his time of index and are therefore required academic difficulty, the College to achieve a minimum G.P.A. issues a permanent dismissal. of 2.0 for the next two One rather interesting consecutive terms. Last year statistic to note is that in there were thirty-five freshmen 1987, the College dismissed categorized under this type of eighteen students. This year academic waining. however, thirty-two students At tile end of each academic were dismissed. Dr. Wolf term •. the Subcouncil on the could not pinpoint a specific AcadeJEic Standing of Students Continued on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK~ \No it's notthe middle of January· actually we're 011 our way to Elba.\ i \

Page 2 CONCORDIEIVSIS January 19, 1989 C!rnncnr.blen&is NEWS ANALYSIS 1[··1\ 1Q2 ~ ff~ \~­ & JtlQ). I(~· U.S. vs. LIBYA; Round IV pilots did net deter the Libyan pilots from purslling. them. At this point, the AmericallS acted in self-defense and shot down the Libyan aircraft By B.RUCE HAY~ JR, Just last week in the fourth military conft<>ntation with Libya since 1981, two F-14 Tomcat jet fighters from the USS John F. Kennedy shot down two Libyan MiG-23 Flogger jet fighters in international waters off the coast of Libya. This confrontation is by no means a harbinger of an attack on a Libyan chemical plant as is thought by man:y who are not familiar with Naval policy and By KEVIN GARDNER 1500 pounds a year. That's a lot of paper. Yet that is the amount of paper the average American throws away each year. Waste pap~r forms over 50 percent of tile municipal solid waste generated in By RUTH COHEN On Thursday~ January 12th, in the College Center auditorium, appr<>ximately 95 people gathered to pay tribute to the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr .. It was a time to recall the inspired leadership that Dr. King lent to the civil rights movement, and a time to remember the movement's disappointments and triumphs. It was a time to mourn the loss ef King, and a time to be reminded of the hatred and prejudice, which made his death a tragic inevitability. It was a time for discussing the urgent need to follow King's example now, to allay our nation's persistent adherence to racial intolerance and bigotry. The assembly ·started with the showing of the film Montgomery to Memphjs, which outlined the events of the civil rights struggle, in the period 1955- 1968. The movie began in Montgomery, Alabama with Rosa Parks refusing to abide by the state's segr-egation laws. Her refusal to sit in the 'negro strategy. Even before the incidents with the USS Stark and USS Vincennes rules ofengagement ,basically state that a United States military unit, it could be anything. from any service. cannot fire their weapons unless fired upon or hostile rntent is evident from .. the other party. It is quite evident when fired upon, but hostile intent is rather ambiguous. In the case of this aerial confrontation, hostile intent was inferred after a series of five evasive maneuvers by the American Tile reason that this in no way signifies an attack on .tb,e Libyan chemical plant is that the presence of F-14 Tomcat aircraft isordiruu:y procedure for a carrier battle group. The E· · 2C Haw)(eye is a Naval equivalent to the Ait :Force~s A WACS early warning ajrcraft. The E-2C is launched and .flies above the carrier battle .group to increase the range of the sen$ors on ships via a data link, When a threat is determined, us~ally for aircraft by a radar signal reading .device called IFF or Identification Friend or Foe. the information is analyzed and then data is SPAA Urges College To Recycle America. We do, however, recycle 20% of this. Some states and various scattered towns mandate separation of wastes. These, along with concerned citizens and schools such as Cornell, are the only contributers in the recycling effort. Martin Luther King Remembered section' of the bus, catalyzed tlle black community into a boycott of .public transportation which was to last for eleven months. This b()ycott was to inspire a Sapreme Court ruling which deemed bus segregation unconstitutional. The film proceeded with the 1963 march in Birmingham, Alabama and the brutality of tfle authorities in hampering tile marcher's efforts: Dr. King's famous speech in Washington D.C. was excerpted. where he shared his vision b.efore a throng of thousands. \I have a dream\ he said, that one day even in the bastion of racism and violence that was Mississippi, one day even Mississippi will \be 11 transfonned into an oasis of freedom and justice.\ King's non-violent approach t<> protest and ,extraordinaty oratorical talents were to raise him to national prominence and e;u-n him a Nobel Peace Prize. The movie t:oncluded with Dr. King's denunciation of the Vietnam War and his stJbsequent assassination in Were America to increase its recycling of paper, there would be many benefits. The most obvious is reducing our pulpwood needs. For one Sunday edition of the New York Times, 150 acres of forest must be logged. Over 200;000 acres must be logged Memphis, Tennessee on April 4th, 1968. Following the movie, Nadia Duvalier, the co-chairperson of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (a co-sponsor of the event), introduced the guest speaker, Mr. Thomas Cooper, the executive director for the Martin Luther King Commission of New York State. Mr. Cooper retold a brief history of the Committee's incerption and said his main. efforts were geared toward education in the methods and philosophy of Martin Luther King and, also, evaluation of the current trends in racial attitudes. Cooper elaborated on his plans for the establishment of an institution to foster and encourage the ideals and procedures of King's method of non violent protest. The forum was opened to questions wheJe such issues were raised as the injustice of South Africa;s apartheid system and the theor-etical effect King could have had, had he not met his untimely death. Last Thursday afforded members of the college community the unique opportunity to see an important film and listen to and converse with a man eemmitted to combatting racism. Altbou,gh many did attend, one would urge tbose who didn't to make a greater effort the next ttme such an exceptional opportunity is offered. linked to th~ F-14. The F-l4 was designed as a big~ speed interceptPr, no~ as abomber or attack aircJ;\aft. With its high speed. more than · twice the speed. of sound, the. F-14 is capable of covering large distances to intercept threats before they can come near the The reason that this in no way signifies an attack on the Libyan chemical plant is that the presence -of F~t4 Tomcat aircraft is ordinary procedure for a carrier battle group. . , . battle group, es-pecially the carrier, This is rou~tine procedure and happens a . substantial amount of time. In -most eircumstimces the F- 14'8 merely escort .the threat away fro111 the battle group. In · . this particular instance, the threats turned out to actually be hostile and the battle group was defended. · . each yeru: to provide paper plates and wrappers for McDonalds. And to those of you who do recycle paper, one stack of paper three feet high will save .one living spruce or pine tree (you know, the kind that smell good). In addition to saving our forests, and the species of animals the:tein, recycling paper will save other valuable resources. Each ton of paper recycled saves . 275 pounds of sulfur, 350 pounds. of limestone, 60,000 gallons. of water, and 225 kilowatt hours of electricity.' There .is also much air and water pollution created by paper mills that would be reduced by recycling. SPAA have chosen the environment as a f1)cus . for their winter term a.;ti vities. The ·Students for Political Awareness and Activifie·s have chosen the environment as a focus for their activities for the winter term. Eduational material relating to the phy~ical state of our countrv R is very unlikely that the F- 14's ·were on some kind of .. rr.cpgnizance:mission $ihce tllat is not wbaultey· were. designed to do an4,.tbe Navy would not . _needl~sly jeopardize the· lives of two men and the loss of an over twenw million dollar aircraft However, it would not be . beyond Libyan leader Kad~ to !fY and stir up some bad publicity against the United' States and some public support from the Libyan- people. Supposedly, ICaddafi · has moved people outside the grounds of the chemical plant to try and deter an ~merican attack, It cannot be detenuiited for 'Sure whether or not the chemical plant . at Rabta is producing chemical weapons and moreover, the Geneva convention, does not pronibit the produCing of chemical weapons; onl'y the use of them. In this fourth round: there is no clear winner, but it is quite clear that this latest confrontation is not a pre- emptive strike. will be made available to you - through this organization. In addition to reading literature ~ listening to -speakers, yon will be able to act.· Letters will - be written to,co[}gressmen with regard· to issues presently in Congress. 'tbis is referred ·to as \doing your· part.\. It also reseml)le~ \something you do when you're a citizell of a democratic country.\ ;Most. i111;portantly, .. the members of SPM.~wo~W,J~e to· see Union College re~ycle the tremendous amounts of .paper that are used· in offices, computer rooms, the school maHroom, .and. throughout the dormitories. Various student groups ·have recycled ·the College's paper qvet the years, J bu~ .students come and go, and ea¢h effort eventually fades. The members of SP AA would litee to see Union College do its.: part as a resp()nsible institution in society. In addition to doing its part, the college will set an example for the surrounding community and for each student who passes through its gates. THE NEW ROCK &ROll DUTCH HOLLOW -,~~:~- HouRs; 4-12· E'VERYDAY . Come visit us at the College Center or· CaH 'for free delivery . . . 370-6060 $5·.00 mlnim:um. or a_·small pizza i i. ·~ I 1 1 .( ( J I I

I l l CONCORD{fiNSlS January 1!9,. 1989 :R.~~ns ·ror New Soci;l P~licy Outlined ]Jean .Mammola Comments on ·\Motivating Issue'' Patricia Williams. Named New Assistant 'Dean Of Students BY KEVlN W. IRLAND students and faculty.\ Continue<l from page . 1 complaint from oilier studeflts, and beca.use of our concerns that stu«:ieflts have appropriate academic priorities, effective ~. • immedi,atdy ~ the College will ~ i not approve formal parties ~ during tile week (i.e Suflday ~ • through lriiursday). Approved ~. parties IIl:ay be scheduled only ffi. • an .Friday and Satur!lay ni,gl!t, except du::ring the tenth wee:k of the t~rrn prior to fi11al examinati&ns, when no p311ties wi11 be permitted. .During the· week, a given organization, ·however,. may have an 'in- house fttnction' only for its members, bnt no formal sCJcial parties wHl be otherwise approved.\ :Pean ·of Students Joseph ''The ide:a is to have a party that is· respQnsible,\ stressed Dean Jit1~mola. \Tbat's what we're tryhng to communicate in this letter;\ The college's search_to fill Mammola stated that Ms. the new Assistant Dean Of Williams' positiQ~ was created Students posith;m has ended after former Assistant Dean of after six months. The college Undergradu~te· Studies William announced over winter vacation Daniels left , U~ion for a . 'telephone calls every day last term in some way complaining about the nighttime secial life • on campus. The complaints · · rangefj from noise levels to low classroom attendance to vanda1ism. \The College is simply stressing to :fraternities that they must be aware of ·. who\s drinking and who's going to be held accountable.\ Dean Mammola denied tltat the new social policy was in direct reaction to the freshmen on academic warning. It was rumored that concerns over the class of 1992, the frrst class to matriculate under the new admission policy dropping the S .. A.T. requirement, were the driving impetu_s for the stricter social policy. Furthermore he cleared up the rumor that 44% of the freshman class had fall term G .P .A.s below 2.0, as reported. by Student Fo~;um at its Jan. 12 m~ting. \Sixty- lhat Ms. Patricia Willi,ams position at the Rochester would be appointed to the· Institt,lteof Technology. It was newly created position. detennjned at that point in time Assistant Dean of Students that Minority Programs, which Williams received an had formerly been handled Chuck McGavern ·~9. president e>f the Interfraternity Council and Psi Upsilcn fraternity, stated, \It .seems like yet aiJ.()tller mandate. I d()n\t see anytlting we can really d() (to have the policy yntirely repealed).'' . three to .sixty-five freshmen (13% of the freshmen class) are .. on academic warning. That's not out of keep with statistics on past freshman undergraduate degree in through Assistant Dean Sociology from- Bennett Daniels, could be more · College and then obtained her effectively handled under the M.S. degree in Counselor auspices of the Dean .of Education from Illinois State . Students. Univ~sity. In addition to her While Assistant Deans of ext~nsive work experience in Students Alford and Williams the area of residence life at will share the same college campuses, she bas responsibilities such as served as an associate staff Orientation, Parents Weekend, manager at AT &t~ counseling, and disciplinary During her nine years 'at action, Mamtnola .stated that, AT&T, Ms. Williams had the '' ... Assistant Dean of Students opportunity to work on the Williams will. be.· ~esQon~~ble divest'itufe'; serving' with· the . . for Minority Pro!7ams. wh~I~ cempany's. Servic~ eo'st ' Assi~tant, 'Oean~ o( 'S'tu4bnts·' Group.· Ms; Williams also Alford will b·e responsible for holds the distinction of being International Student McGav(}m, and other I.F.C .. officers ue p1anning to discuss the maJter further with the· : Direct()r ·()f Security and the Dean of Students Off[ce concerning discrepande~ between tbe new policy a.nc fraternit;y agendas. McGa:vern continued to say, \I think the College cares about alcoh()l- related incidents. S~ do NVe.. · Part~es ~ (:an get hm:d:, to .. regulate, and, in the end, we're the ones ~the fraternities) who have to pay the fme.\ classes;\ Perhaps the hardest means by wllich the College can reatt to disregard toward the new policy is to tighten party policies even further. Mammola did, however, comment that he \worries . about freshmen not getting off on the right foot.\ Concerning the notion that last year's installation of Gel- Time had an impact on this tightening of social policy, Dean Mammola again denied But regarding l<Jss of housing privileges, this sanction is already in existence. The College has alwayshltd the discretion to take away h<>using from a Greek organizati()n on campus. Concerning frat- ernities located off-campus Mammola offered this ~tdvice. \H they want to be pat of LF.C., they must comply with the College's policies.\ Penalties for abuse ofcollege policy have not increa~oo .. a11d determination ofsuch penalties are still at the discreti()n (){the · College, each situation j:udged on an indi v·idual and independent basis. PerltaJls the · strongest means by whiclt the College can react to stu<l€;mt disregard of the new policy is ,to tighten party policies even further. \If you look at corniJarable colleges to Union, like Colgate, Hamilton, Williams, their social policies are mtich . stricter. Fraternities at S(}me of these colleges must ll·ire members outside .the college to . check identification, distribute bracelets identifying those of · legal drinking age. At (i)lher colleges, beer kegs tQ fraternities altogether have been banned from t.lle campus.N Dean Mammola and Assistant Dean Fred Alfe>rd are planning to hold a lunclleon for fraternity and sorority ()fficers in hopes of an.sw~ring questions concerning tile new policy as well as sptX;ifics on general College policie!;. Break-Ins . . . New Jersey Bell's. frrst fem:ale security investigator. · · Programs.\ When questioned about Ms. I. F. C. !las already asked all fraternities to ask for Uni<1n IDs at parties, in reaction to the tighter social policy., in order to protect Greek life at Union. But the sentiment · expressed on behalf of I.F-C. was that the mid-week part:y · policy was harsher th.a11 that there was any direct causal Continued from page ~ When questione.d on her expectations for her nevr1Y' created position, Assista~i: Dean of ·Students Williams expressed her belief that, \o~e should keep doing n~ things~ II and that she was II •• .looking forward to working· at Union, and having· the opportunity to work with ' ' ' ' Williams. Mammola stated that she, \ ... has the abilities , and the approach ·.that will allow her to meet with various . campus constituencies.\ In addition he believes that Ms. . Williams' \ ... depth and types of experience will be a definite asset • to the college · community.\ AAC Passes Three New Academic Major Proposals By KELLY MCGOWAN On November 23, the Academic Affairs Council put three proposals to vote which had been presented t:O them last May. 'All three of these proposals were .overwhelmingly passed. The proposals will allow ~or the creation of three new majors here at Union. will focus on Chinese language. Professor 'Thurston, a history and political-science professor, has agreed to serve as the directOr of the program. in· addition; several other professors already teach courses which could be included in the program. It is hoped that this program will begin in the Fall of 1989. Continued on page 4 necessary. . · Marnm-ola's reasoning bellind the stricter social policy was briefly <;o\ered in the opening · statement of his memo. In it, he offec:red details to why the College has ~ecome : particularly concerned about the • social aEJnosphere since the close of last term. One incident that stood out was the serving of alcohol to four lccal high .scll()~l students wllicll resulted im one of the teenagers becoiniag seriously ill. Complaillts from faculty ilnd student lllembers-at-large adooo · to what ·Mammola described as · a \mcunting issue. 11 Mammcla approximated that he received three to fo111 relationship. However, he that often, people do11't call stated, \I think Gel-Time has until the next day or tfley d<J11't provided more opportunities for cal1 at all. P artying.\ .. As for tb.e enforcement of the new mid-week party policy along with the other established policies, Dean Mammola commented that he did not see the need for strong antagonistic ~ction from the College tQ ensure fraternity and sorority compliance. \I fully eJ<.pect fraternities and sororities to cooperate. I've been pleased in the way that we have worked over the years. (The memo) ... is trying to appeal to the students as adults.\ When pressed for possible actions that the College would take if cooperation was not offered, Mammola stated, \If necessary, we will enact sanctions--including loss of re.sidential privileges. II . Mr. Mantica is looking f<lr better student awareness in safety and hopes to gain a closer relationship wit II ·students in dorms, fraternities and off-campus houses. With the combination of a cl()ser . relationship and the new ' security measures, Mr. Mantica feels that we can supres~ this 1 recent string of burglaries and , make our campus a safer place. Rumors ... · Continued from page 1 reason for the sizable imcrease, but mentioned that there were perhaps from the beginlling, \a larger than normal numb~r of students on special (academic warning).\ Whatever the ca~~ may be, the College is attem:pti11g to become more stringent in The frrst of these proposals will create a new .major in East Asian Studies. One of the reasons for the creation of this major is the .success of the term abroad program offered in . Japan and China. Currently, Union offers very few courses in this area, and over the past few years, students have bad to create their own majors. Upperclassmen Dining To Close On Weekends · carrying out their pclicies concerning students' academic performances. Dr. W:olf maintaned that the earlier a student is forewarned of his poor academic progre~s, the better off he will J)e in By creating a major in this area, additional faculty will need to be hired. It is thpught that one person will be hired in a tenure position who will focus onJapanese language and li.terature. Another professor will be hired to a non-tenure but peiman~nt position which .By R. REED WHIDDEN Faced with economic concerns, Union College Dining Services has closed the College Center Dining Room ·for dinner and b-rnnches on weekends. In the spring. of 1988, - fNshmen found . themselves suddenly dining in the Colle.ge · Center's upperclassmen's dining room on the weekends fot brunch and .. dinner, In the fall of this year they returt1ed as sophomores to .. eat, if they so desired, every meal ill tile College Cemter. Once agadn, they, along with other uppetdassmen, fmd tlteir dining options taken away. This dt%Cision was not macle hastily or without cl<>se evaluation of facts and figures that have ]!resented therrtselv-es over the CiOtJrSe of the past year and a billf that the Colt(l~e Center ba:s been open for u!;e .. When the College Center was opened, 1:an Gray, director cf Food Sel'Y'ices. stated that, \We believed 'With the new difling hall it wot1ld get peak usage so we kept it open.\ However, for some reason th.e numbers of stndents eating there for dinner and brunch on weekends .was not high enough to justify keeping both facilities open. This past fall tenn has proven the same once again. During the fall this year, averages ran around 3Z5 for lunch on week days, 185 to 290 for dinner on week days, 95 for dinner on weekends, and 187 for brunch. This term, so far, the average number of Continued on p$ge 4 · determining the next stage ()f his academi<;: career. LOOKING FOR A. UTILE FUN AND EXCITEMENT? JOIN UNION · COLLEGE REPUBLICAWS SIJPPORT THE TRIJE . CAUSE! Call Tom x 4470

Page 4 CONCORDJENSfS !a.nuary .1'9, 198!1 - President MorriS Returns From Power~Failure Keeps ··camp~us In The Dark OVernight Suct:ess1ul Visit To The Orient Continued from page. 1 to>China, lle ~llad a better idea · awareness of it being an of what ·he \V<lUld ~xperience important function of the Said President Morris, \We . . . By FIONA SHUKQI Edito.r•itluChief ph.ysical plant. When asked wby the repair took so long . there, \ ... I discussed some experience. PresidentMoms IS successfuUu negotiated anotlter 1 ' d f h · ' things with my wife, to try and. · extreme y pl,\ou. · o. t . e entire three y~ars for the program,\ d h He went on to add that there is . . prepare her~ But, when we term abroa · . program as ·· e sees c ·(power was restor.ed to the ,Four residents of Da:vids(i)n · campll~ around 10;35-Tuesday •• · arrived it was all so new and . · it as an extension of the basic. presentl:y a .search going •on., different that both us were . idea behind a liberal arts \ ... for a full-time member of · affected.\ Mc;rris STW~ke about . college, to help :students • stayed in the Ramada lllll tb~s m~fuing) Direct<;r of .Secwity past Monday night. 11leir Paul Mantica responded that decision was not due tQ ·:tlieii' \there are hl.U!dreds of miles of. desire for privacy, but rather it ·electrical cables on campus that was due to th~ii desire n()t to had to be gone through to trace their faculty to .come over (to · .r~ f ·• arriving in fapan whe~;e, \one develop ideasandawateness d Union) and teach here next was deeply aw11re of things, the ideas. For President Morris, fall\ At this point, no area ()f . discontinuity in cultures, one .. two of the most important study bets been decided on yeL , . He went on to add that a ! · got a perce:ptlon of cultures • aspects of the college are the teacher from Nanjing woald : moving.\ terms abroad, or off-campus ·. take cold showers in the dwl. down the problem.\ :ae also Monday, January 16, at2:Cl2 m~ntioned that. as they were p.m., the electricity acmss ·tracking through the cables th:e . ·most of the campus we.nt workers. were atle. to restore . W,bile in Japan, tile President programs (thtl'S accurately come to Union every three I and' Mts. M<Jrris were invited including the Washingron term years, and the:y will be here for i to help celebrate ·the 40th as well as the Marine Term} one full year at a time. • anniversary of the international . and the summer research • . down, The blackout w!ts .& electricity t6 some of the result of a \bushing\ faillll.\~. in affecte.ii buildings {some . one -of the three tansformers buildings regained power . located on a pole ·between tile around 10: 00 Tuesday College Center anq the night). The Pres:ide.nt also : · :1. 1 · school. A11d, while lu.e . us · · programs for undergraduates. commented, \We are hoping vjsit to Cllina, they Were able . that the Academic Vice- to meet tile· Pr.esident and · President of Nanjing Normal '· Deans as well as S()me of the . ~ will visit Union in May.\ Tile · . staff of tbe univ~rsity, \ ... President was pleased that he : which allowed. (him) to develop • and his wife wereable to mal:e 1 • first-hand relationships which personal contacts with the · is of re!ll imp<lrtance.\ , ad,min;i stration of >the However; much of the trip to · University and he notes that •· Japan was tak:en up· with a set · these contacts are one of t11e , of formal' anlliversary . most important results of his . , meetings, 'They did get the trip,forhimselfand for Union.. · chance tc see bow the While in Nanj;ing,, tile programs worked and meet the · Presidentand Mrs. Morris were students, however, the able to live in an area near tl!e Morrises were living one hour Union students. \The livi.ng away and did, 11 othave the same arrangements allowed my wife . . opportunity to get to know the • and me to get to know the , ·students as th~y had when they · group.\ Two students wllo went to Citina, which the recently returned from China Morrises described as spoke about the chance that \unfortunate.\ they had to meet Union's first couple. \President Morris was ' President Morris described willing 00 listen and experience I the trip as lr successful and along with us,.in particular, he rewarding.•• TlloQgll, just like sat down and played a silly the students themselves who _game with us, I do feel as if I are retumi11g :front China and got to know them a little · Japan, President Morris better. himself is a'\Va-e of the great President Morris commented · differences ill our culture. This · that since he had already bee11 discontinuity; and the· · physical plant, which, in tt~m, Buildings without power incapacited a cable. There was were evacuated and loc~ed up no external reasqn for tile . for safety reasons~ In response failure. to the power failure, security The College contractetl an electricaJ. consultant to 't~e-lp . discover the problem, b1,ltfllost of the repair work v,ras perfo~ed by employees oftlle brought in off-4uty ,officers to work oveni~e. Existing security was doubled in the. dorms. There were no reports of major inciden.ts r.esulting from the blackout The College itself does very little in utilizing the resources of .the returning students. aside from encouraging a dialogue between those :returning students and those ·students who are planning on going away. Perhaps it would be wise to recognize the wide variety of ideas and experiences which are collected on every ::gJli~:;;;a:.:.~ • .:~u!~ New Majors Will Add as a sometimes yery difficult B d L • b ~- A ;~!si~:~~rb~~rr;:p~~:~~~i ••. roa er : .l era rts recognized the discontinuity as B-. a· c·.·k:- . _:g· . ·-r·-·o_· -·u·.: _ n·- ·d···_. the real education in the experience and just as he and his wife could not be fully .continued from page S . existed due oo Union's lack of prepared for their trip, neither . The money to cover the C()St of offerings in this area. They felt could any student, and they the Japanese professor 'Will an understancting .of the modem never should be. However, one come from the Japa!le£e world could not be achieved should take a few brief minutes foundation grant which ·tave unless one Ullderstands the and speak with someone who · Union money for a full-ti111e religioqs traditions which has recently returned from a · ·Japanese language teacher f<lr h((lpe&·'t_o sbape it. Thrp: tertn abroad and learn a little · tbree years. It is hoped tllat · ·:Proposal \was passed by th.e· bit more abou 1 the · outside money can be foun<l to AAC, but lllay not be effectiv~ discontinuity in our own . cover ·tile e:x:penses cf a into the Fallof 1990. · . culture. . Chinese language profeSS().! <IS : 'I:':o create• i Department of well. Religious Srudies, it will bee Participation a Factor in Close of Dining Hall , , A major in Women's Stu«lies n~ssary for tile college tQ hire . should be offered here in tile tWQ. professors, one focusing · . beginning of the Fall of 19&9. on western religion and one Continued from page 3 with the fa.ct that they are students using the Colle.ge · forced to lay them off for one Center Dining Room for lunch . month in December, a week was. 350 Monday through and a half in the spring, and all Friday. That average went summer. down to approximately 180 to A third centributing factor 200 for dinner Monday throu_gh was the rise ill cost Qf products- Thursda:y. That average went · purchased tc feed meal card down f11rther for dinner en holders. \Tile dro11ght our Fridays, hcvering at 90. Dinner country suffered in the summer on Saturdays saw even few:e:r seems to have hit home students as the number causing prices to rise even for averaged 80 students. Sunday Food Services, Cost of grains dinners went up to about 1()0 and oils have gone up 8% to to 120 students, but brunches 10%-- even meat prices went on both days never served more up. Admittedly, there was an than 80 to 90 meal card holders ' incease in the cost of meal at a time. cards as welL. The averages for the fall Jan Gray's cletision to close seem higher only because~ · the College Cente-r Dining states Richard ·Baia, assistant · · Room is not unprecedented to the dtector, of the week md • either. When the College a half that the Rathskellar was Center was not o_pen, Hale forced tQ close. House was used as an The combination of these · upperclass dining room. It was figures and the labor problen closed on weekends during helped Jan Gray and her staff to winter and spring terms, as make their decision. Labor, for well. Dining Service~ reserves Food Services, has always been · the right t() make such a a dilemma. Jan Gray change as well. In the Union comme11ted that it is. \hard to College catalogue under the ask employees to worlc. heading of C()Sts, it is stated weekends only feeding 8() . that- \The U])perclassmen's .students -or so,\ especially facecl . dining area ill the College WANTE.D: EDITORS FRESHM/l\1\1 RECORD 1'99:3 Appiications .avallable in thE Student ActiVities Office, College ·Ce11ter 408. Application Deadline: Jarnuary 26 QuestiorJ~'?? Call 370·61 29 Center serves lunch and dinner The development of this new who would f<><:us, on eastern Monday through Friday. • major comes from the wide religions. It is llo]Jed that tlre Lunches antbdinners are served · variety of courses which l<Jok person hired t.() fo(:us on eastern on weekends if enrollment · at thi~.gs from a geitde~ religio.ns could contribute to. particpation indicates the need.\ ., · perspecttve aJ'reatly .o~~~_l!ere · tlj~:Easr Asian Studies program·. Jan Gray and her, staff foun~ · · at Ui_lion. One- n_ew ~cou:r~e, _ its well. It is also boped that a' that this was not the cast' . .The · • titled ' \Persp~7tiv~s .~ll D~pattment of Religion wilt numbers of students enrolled in- ·· Wome·n 's ·· StUdtes/ vov.Lll contribute to the ·new ! the· m¢ card plan who actu.aJ.ly- · function, .~~· an in~odtu;~o:ty civilization req\Qirement unde:r' particpated on tlie weekends _: cot¥se. A ·direct<;>~ wilV~e 'hired the Geri Ed Plan which takes· was rrot sufficient to keep the , · to teae·h this course as weU <IS effect· in the fall of this year;- dining hall open during the . to oVersee the devel?plrle~t Professor Hayes. the chairman. weekends. This stipulation . process of courses m tlt1s of the AAC, feels that \the- was, at one time, included in major.~ It is hoped that by major contribution of a the contract that students sign crea~ng this major at __ Uni()n, department of religion is adding at the purchase of their meal the liberal arts curriculum ~ill · breadth to the curriculum.\ cards. However~ in tlie process· · · be expanded to include a gender Since the new Gen Ed Plan . of streamlining the contra,ct it perspective. . is restructuring ·courses in was cut out. tn any case~ it is Thirdly, the AAC passed a several depaxt:ments. it was more or less that' it should be proposal which·wodld create. a decided that the money was not viewed as a decision ofwhether Department of Religious immediately avaibible to fund or not to keep the dining room .. Studies at Union. The group this departmellt. For this open, not one of whether or wbicb presented this pnrposal reason, it is b~ing held off not it should be closed. to the ·college felt that a BliP until 1990. Community s·ervice Connection Opportunity To Give And Learn By KIM GIGLIO The Community. Service Connection is a program established by the Career Development Center emphasizing the importance, value and pradtice of volutueer service to individuals, and the Schenectady community at large. This program aims to provide the opportunity for students to grow in civic · responsibility, and to. :gain experience in a particular area · of' service. Students volllliteer their time for both altruistic and career related reasons. Individual students as well as student groups volunteer t(} participate in both long aitd sh-ort-term projects. St11d~nt groups have worked on .one.cJay projects while other students - usually individual students - have volunteered for a term: or the entire academic ye-ar. Individual students normally volunteer for two to five b()lll'S pet week. Students are responsible for their o\':il tnlllspo$tion. On Tuesday. January 241 llle Community Servi().e Connection is sponsoring .a Community Service Fair in ilie College Center from 11 a.ni. to I :30 p.m. to inform students abotlt volunteer opportunities. This is an excellent time f()r sttrdents to get acquainted with a broad range of career areas and· community service positions~ If you are interested in an opportunity t<> C:i>ntribute to · the Schenectady community as well as exploring a career path - come to die Community- Service Fair, Thesday. Jan. 24, 11 a.m. to 11:30J~o.m., bt, fl., College. Center.

. I ·.l i I :t ·\ i I ' ~- .' Contestan1s, wiU be asked to speak for 3 minutes on a randomly '. chosen topic. Prize money totalling $375 and ~ward trophy. No preparation necessary. I TO ENTER: contact: Scott at 386-4167 or Jen at 346~3943 February 3, 1989 Page S

Page 6 CONCORDIENSl;$ Jan'llary · lf), 1'989 FEATURE ARTICLES Playing The Game In The Dar By KRISTIE ARNOLD As I am approaching the end of my four years at Union, I have begun the mythical process that most seniors find themselves at· least mildly concerned with, and that is, .the job hunt. This search involves numerous trips to the Career Development Center, an accumulation of aU the meaningless jobs one has had in his/her tifetime (resulting in a resume}, .references from one's most avid fans and, of course, the interview. The resume, which is one of the first and probably the most important part of getting a job, has been an item of abundant conversation and competition around campus. What I have discovered is that a resume is a very neatly printed, eloquently stated, compilation of B.S. Most of them look the same and basically say the same things. I must admit that after reading some of my friends' resumes, I was very i~pressed. One friend took inventory, ordered food and liquor, managed a five person staff, and claims that he was a head waiter in a restaurant this· summer ... an.d all that time I thought that he was just a bus- boy.· What was J thinking? Another favorite was the \Painter - self employed\ category. Does this mean that this person has a keen business sense and satisfied customers or that he/she painted his/her parents' summer home? I suppose that that is not the issue, at least he/she is able to paint. A common \interest or hobby'; seemed to be NUTRITION among some healthy individuals. It does sound nifty, guys, just remember to clean aU the McDonald~s bags out of your car before the interview. After fiercely protesting to embellishing my own qualifications with such outrageous' vocubulary, I finally succumbed and portrayed myself as the eager, hardworking, active person that every company wants to have working for them. • The ·next important facade after the resume ordeal, provided that one gets that far, is the interview. I have heard a number of things concerning this event, but I have not experienced an interview for a REAL job yet. While leafing through an interview bookfet, I found the section entitled \dress code\. It informed me that I should wear little or no jewel:ty, no perfume; no worn heels. and absolutley . NOTHING GREEN. For tnost people this is probably not a problem, but I happen to look good in green. The. question arises, should I .appear washed out in a stiff navy blJ.Ie suit with my hair pulled severely. back? Or should I be myself the way that I am every other ruiy of the year? I was advised by a wise man to stop complaining and just play the game. And so, I now possess a resume that could fit ·' any Union student applying for a job (you are welcome ·to . borrow it), bangs that do not touch my eyebrows, a petma- smile, a firm handshake, unscented perfume, and new· · heels. I have not decided aboRt the suit yet-- I may still go . wild and opt for g~een; in which case, you will probably see me working in APLUS next fall. By ·-SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor Maybe I'll take a cold shower or perhaps drink some sour milk after I'm done writing. But for now I am just sitting · . in, the dark, straining my eyes trying to pile word upon word, sentence upon sentence, trying · to make sense out of this . article as I try to make sense out of the situation. Thank God for flashligbts and batteries, candlesand glow~in- . the-dark watches. Boy. do I feel safe knowing almost the entire · campus is in the dark. Just · wait until· our \friendly\ Doids get ahold of this. What a field day they wiU have. I thinlc I'll stay right here in my room safe and sound for the r.ewainder of the power ·. failure, THE BLACKOUT. To be hones.t with yo~!. I'm no~ feeling very . · safe rig:ht now .• even with tlie door locked, a.nd two chairs, one dresser and my· hiking . boots plastered against it. ~umor has it that they beefed up security, rumor also has it that The Light will not return until tomorrow morning. My room is starting to get a littl~ chilly, I guess that's what happens when .the beat, electricity, and hot water aU go on the fritz.. Maybe 1'1:1 just wear my entite wardrobe to bed tonight. Here we aie in the home of Ge~eraJ Electric~ the.light bulb capital of the world·, yet I feel as thOugh I'm jn· the deepest depths of the underground. I have Jost. all ·faith in you} Sitting in the dark Monday night. The Generation That's' Been By SUSAN SHAFFER Features Editor 1989 - The last year of this decade. A decade in which we have grown and spent the most influential years of our lives. We're the generation of the eighties-but these past nine years, the Reagan years~ have left us with what, you might ask? If you aren't asking, then I am--\What does our generation represent?\ Our generation has been gypped! We are stuck with the muck from past generations and thus have accomplished little ourselves. Our fashion, our music, our lifestyles--much is a return to the past. The preppiness of the fifties and the hipness of the sixties have dominated our wardrobes. The Top 40 charts are dominated by remakes of old songs. We have returned to the old conservative ideals.. The sexual revolution has ended with the onslaught of Aids ... What's NEW!? Gypped! The Computer Age, yes the eighties have become known as the Computer Age, so we have accomplished something--yet as I sit typing away on my computer, which I still do not feel comfortable or confident with, I am forced to chuckle. How fnany of you got a passing grade in Fortran, Pascal or any campus computer course and still feel computer illiterate. We are the educated of society, yet so few of us feel confident working with computers. Once more we are caught in the trap the eighties has set. The YUPPIE image is new, but i( has only spurned from the \me generation\. Today we are coHditioned to desire power, money and success. This leads tO the next issue of the eighties ... Bureaucracy! While bureaurracy is nothing new it seems synonymous with the eighties and has set the trap for our generation. We . .are trapped! Governments and administration:s, w·hHe supposedly fi!aking. decisioJIS . based upon what is best for the people, are actually doing what is best for themselves. Today's societies are conditioned to desire wealili .and power, and thus these are ·the factor's considered' in decision making, True, we are the mostpowerful country and have much to be proud of-~but ·we can not forget about the people of the United States, nor can we forget about the Union College students, The government is for the people, the college for its. students. Both have been ruled by a bureaucracy over the past decade. If we continue as we're going we will probably retn&n the most powerful country, and our college will become more prestigous--but while this happens the publis is forgotten as it has been over the past years. We are trapped. Why does it seem that we've . been left with the short end of the stick? We ·must face me fact ·that this has been a pretty stagnant decade~~·have the eighties just been the calm before the storm? Shall we be optimists, or do we have no choice but to accept our future? It seems as if the plague is approaching. ~With the destruction of our environment. the Aids epidemic, outburts of termrism, ·increases in the number of homeless .. and .the list goes on. Our generation is stuck in the middle. It~s 110 wonder .so many of us feel lost and do not know where we are going. This is especially true since so many people are trying to run our lives and think that they know what is best for us. We are responsible, we are mature, and we must get ourselves out of this ·trap that has been set. We must not allow ourselves to be molded by bureaucrats or trapped by past generations. We must set new trends, move fQrwarct and be happy. / 0.1?., where ate you when needed the most? It must be all the layoffs, yea the· layoffs. I hope the computer center was empty when Union's energy .plug was pulled last night sending bits and pieces of papers and·, oh no, theses :vanishing into thin air. No emergency lights in the h.=Ulways, at l~ast not \lere on first floor Rtchmond, good . thinking. Well t won't be totally caught off guard the' next time the electricity is drained from· the campus. I will be prepared to stumble through the hails, maybe even stub a couple more toes on those tricky corners. Yes, next time this happens, which might be sooner than we a1l think, I will be ready. LOOK '· . FOR THE BLOOD :MOBILE COMING ·,: ·AT THE ,. :· ' ' :~-,- .· END OF .l :·.~-FEBRUARY.· I.. - -- • .. \? • ;.~LQ~k for · .. . ·. ; ~ . . Circ{e 1(s Valentine Flower Sale Coming· Soon to the College Center and .West 'i l ., ,, :,I '!' • . •

CONCQRDIENSJS January 19, 1989 Page 7 ·FEATURE ARTI·CLES. THE NEW HEALTH AND f.JJNESS COLUMN By JACQUELINE RANDALL Union Co1lege Students are vitally inte:rested in protecting and promoting their health sinpe it affects their happiness, capacity for rewarding work and even their length of life, With· the new year already started, many people are trying to become more conscious of the foods they eat and the physical activities that they are involved in. These positive attitudes lead to more successful ~;Jiind, body· health and self images. This Health/Fitness column is geared Jo all of you .. ,tireo· . teachers, thesis. writers,. return junior term abroads, sophmore blues students .and freshmen about to gain the uncontrollable \15.\ Tbe column will be based on the questions tlJat you give t~ me. Your letters with questions will provide me with information about what you want to learn about diet~ _ health. fitness, getting in shape an:d weight control. I will try to provide answers about the latest related research or will refer yo1t Ill other sources. Every student at Union is vulnera~le to stress. Forms of stress irJClude social, academic and psycllological problems~ Each affect the student and his/bet a<:ademic performance and health. Ways of dealing with this pre~sure are either to munch down on a pound bag of doritoes., make a bulk food run, call 372-4441 for a Dominoes pizza, or the healthier solution is to go t() the gym and work away all that stress. Now since we cannot tiave midweek parties, the gym may well become tile hot spot on canlpu s tor \physical socializiitlr..\ · Physica'l activity· is beneficial for everyone here because it not only increases your metabolism rate and energy ·levels and promotes a healthie1 lifestyle, · Fitness is also aa effective source of weight control because sustained physical activity eventual1y increases your amount ()f muscle tissue, which aLters y-our body chemistry and makes you bum more calories and fat. Studies indicate that regular physical exercise leads to decreased stress and depression. With the unpredictable cold weather in Schenectady, outside exercise proves to be dangerous. (Have you noticed the number of people on crutches this winter?) The gymnasium and the fieldhouse are places to increase your aerobic condition by playing racquetball, squash, biking, swimming, weight' training, doing aerobics, nautilus, rui:ming, and skating. · In maintaining a successful body image, extreme dieting is unhealthy so moderation and variety are the key words. Union students need ·to become more educated about fitness, health and nutrition, so don't get the winter term blues, take control of your health. Ques~ions and suggestions for this column should be addressed to the Health/Fitness Edi,ter, Box 1993. I hope this information gets you on track to a fit; healthy 1989. The. Ups (and Do~ns?) of Winter Term By LISA CHERANDE They warned me that winter term was the term that makes or breaks a Union student. They kindly suggested that a cold-blooded person like myself seek refuge from the traumas of winter in Schenectady by going abroad. Some even told me to transfer to someplace warm like Duke .: that I would be a happier arid better adjusted student if I went to the University of Daytona, the nation's only campus that lies directly on the beach. Since I received fair enough warning, it I ·-·· ' would be of no a~ail to complain of the torments of Schenectady weather. Instead, I would lile to remind you of the \mar~ positive\ aspects of going t<> college in the \snow belt\ of New York state. . Fer <>ne thiJ}g, 1 can honestly say that I am a tougher person having spent my winters in Schene<:tady. It is not quite as grueling ()fan experience to get to class for the students at U. of Dayt()na Beach. While I cover every inch of flesh in as many possible layers of clothing that still allow .me to move a11d da .not require the entire class period to take off, the student of a warmer Climate, must decide which bikini would be most appropriate for class while still allowing maximum tanning for in-between lectures. While 1 struggle against the elements of snow, wind, and ice just to get dinner at the cafeteria, the tropical student must f~ce the blaring mid-day sun without a sunscreen of maximum, strength. Somehow the sunny weather of Florida does not seem to be an overwhelming physical challenge to its college student's. I now know that if I can survive winter term at Union College, I can probably survive just about any possible catastrophe of the Arctic nature. I can't honestly say that I would be able to resist the temptations of \Beaching\ a couple of classes though! The other added bonus of going to college in upstate New York is that we are able to experience the changing of the seasons. Now, that is something a student at the University of Daytona wouldn't be able to brag about. As much as I sometimes would like to eliminate the season of winter, I have ~o admit my year would not be complete without it. I guess I need to visibly be able to experience the passage of time. Eacll season marks the · fact that my life is steadily progressing forward - that there is no way to stop the passage of time. The repetitious nature of the cycle serves to remind me of life is great mystery, Hfe itself. Actually; my fondness for the seasons isn't quite as complex as that, its just nice to look out your window to find each day revealing new weather. In Florida, the weather report consists of the possibility of sun or no sun. And we aU know that change is important for body and soul. If the weather did not change with the Seasons there would be nothing to look forward to come spring. And Christmas certainly wouldn't be the same without snow. The changes ·Of season may be harsh in New York, but think how dull college life would be without them. For those Union College students who are sports fans, the change in seasons allows you to play more sports than the typical Floridian would play. The winter season promises alnine ancf rrM<' country skiing, ice-skating, hockey, ice-fishing, and yes broomball! The tropical student has but to surf and waterski all yearlong. So when you get those winter term blues, please remember all that I have said. Life would be fat dull,er if we had 80 degree weatner every day. It definitely would be a lot harder to study with the lapping of waves coming from outside the library window! But if you are at all like me, don't forget to book your spring break plans early. Daytona Beach is great for a vacation. Write For Features Call Suzanne x4396 a: w ~ fE (/) a: ~ c.. LL 0 f;) w 1- a: :J 0 0

Page 8 / By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor This aftemoon was a washout. Guys were roaming the hall searching for some boredom release. Two in the hall, one kid plastered to the TV, one at the ta)l. one doing pats, and two otl!ers playing pool; everyone was content, everyone pacified. Not all was static. Today the bays upstairs would go to the bank. · These two did not rest solidly in their tree, (this is to suggest that they were a bit out of their tree.) To preserve some form of identity I'll refer to them as doubt and rhetoricaL Doubt had some checks that needed to be deposited, so he lla<l to go to the ban1c Rheto:rical had to pick up an item from the admissions office and deiiver it to Carnegie. They made a pact over the backgammon board. Doubt would go with Rhetorical if Rheto~ical would go with Doubt. The two pondered over the fairness of the agreement e~nd after CONCORDIENSIS January 19, 1.989 FEATURE ARTICLES To agreeing to the terms left on their mission. \Wow. I can't see,\ Doubt proclaims. Rhetorical checks to see w_hether he can see now. Reassured that he can, he looks to ground again and silently moves on. Side by side the two walk up the stairs, across the road; narrowly missing the Domino's man, and onto the sidewalk. Rhetorical is avoiding· the cracks in the cement · . ''Why are you like that when you walk? Is there something I sllould know?\ Rhetorical speaks, \I could go for bagging this dump right no~. South. Warmth. I'cl go to Mexico, the dollar is good there.\ . Doubt looks to ·his pocket, looks up, and then again at his • pocket. \I have six thousand dollars in my pocket, That's a bunch, eh?\ Rhetorical stops, grabbing Doubt's arm. \What wait.. .. Why?\ \I'm going to the bank to deposit it in the house The Bank account\ The wheels in Rhetorical's head were churning. His feet twisted into the pavement as he organized his ideas. \Think about it? We could ditch this dump and go to Mexico. We could fly. We would work, and we would play.\ This idea intrigued both. Their eyes were glistering with the reality and ease of the idea. Rhetorical's head was now · lifted looking high into the day moon. Doubt walked faster. They walked by the admissions office oblivious to its purpose. . Rhetorical thought out loud. \This could be the day we look back on and remember walking across .the tundra in front ofthe Nott; Sch~nt(ctad.y for the last time.\ · .-Doubt says. \I'd go.\ ·' .. l'hen . off to· th_e bank they went. Full force, rehearsing their lines, reassuring their decision. \We can do this, you know, wecart\ , Doubt looks at Rhetorical briefly and says, nrm going to ask if I can get this money in cash.\ Doubt opens the bank door. Instantly, they reel the presence of several hidden cameras, Nervously, they approach the counter. They wind through the maze of ropes and signs, bumping into each other, looking for the youngest of the tellers, preferably female. She is spotted. II Hi;\ Doubt was always the spokesman ofthe two. \Can we get this in cash?\ • The young girl smirks as she asks, \Excuse me?\ \Cash .... can I cash these checks?\- There is an uncomfortable pause. The ~ Teller is speecbless, confused, and quite suspicious: Rhetorical lifts his head and . blurts out, :. \Ymt don't trust us?\ · More. silence fqllows. The teller is more nervous now, and she looks very ill at ease. . \Its for a function.\ \When?\ \Soon.\ \I can'~ do thiS. 11 The counter at the bank was low and the discussion had caught the oth'er tellet's ears. They glanced ·and listened. Doubt's response was· direct. \Why!\ The teller's chin bounced .off of the desk before her. The other tellers were attentive. . Glances were exchanged and one could sense the · hidden cameras concentrated on the area •. \Could I just write a check for this amount?\ Frustrated with the time delay, Doubt looked at Rhetorical and asked, \Now what?\ - Tbe Telle,r looked · at Rhetorical,; as he spoke. \We want t? go to Mexico.\ Then th:ere. was. another pause ... , .. The beach sand was hot on our· feet. The sl:ltf was up, the day was bright and the br~ze relaxed tb.e heat. Rh~torical leaned over to Doubt and asked if he had remembered tha! walk across the tundra, if he tecalled that day. Doubt ignored the question, closed his eyes, and slipped out of his tree into the warm sea. Ollie and Morris Dine Out Old, But lnfD1711111ive. By STEVEN COLE & BRETT MALOFSKY Chinese food is easy to come by, however finding good Chinese cuisine in Sthenectad,Y is often a fruitless quest. Olhe and Morris, along with a harem of good looking da:tes, braved mean-spirited snow flurries to find themselves at China Garden on State Street. The atmosphere was n<Jt.so distinct in the world of srn2l1 Chinese restaurants, and could even be called a bit drabi:Jy. Even though atmosphere is not what one eats, Ollie is e~ romantic fool, and enjoys lavisb scenery. The background music was tQ say the least, amusing with such classics as Jolin Denver's · \Rocky Mountain High\ Joao Gilberta singing \The Girl From Ipanema\ and \Axel F,\ from Beverly Hills Cop. The music did not bring us back to the Ming Empire,. but who really cares. Like the lord delivers manna, Ollr waiter brought us noodles and our meal began. The noodles were fresh, thick, and appe2red tl) be homemade but they were the greasiest we've ever encountered. \Could we have m<>re duck sauce\ was a request that frequently rang out from our table soon after they delivered miniscule amounts. Then came out soups. Morris absolutely adored the bountiful flavors of the Hot and Sour Soup. He not only recommends it, but insists that our readers order it on their next visit to China Garden. Ollie dug into one of his date's Wonton Soup and found it nothing more than average, which is- probably what Wooton Soup could and should be. The beautiful woman seated to his right comm.ented, .. \ifs . v.ery wontonny.\ (So, She's no Einstein!) The eggrolls were above par but had a i:.hick skin, thus detracting from their flavor somewhat. For his main dish, Morris opted for Beef with Hot Pepper Sauce in an attempt to find something different. While this dish was very flavorful~ it was· not as spicy as Morris had ht>ped for.; Ollie, as usual, picked a winner (the meal that is) when he opted for Ta:ngerine Chicken, which was a menu substitute for Tangerine Beef. It was served warm and crispy, coated in a rangerine rind sauce with raw broccoli on the side. China Garden's tangerine dish was the best Ollie has had in 1 any Schenectady area ;. restaurant. {Although it did · pale in comparison to the .. · tangerine dishes presented at The Great Wall in Avon, Connecticut, or Sze's in Springfield, Massachussetts.) Broccali in Garlic Sauce, ordered by 4 of our friends, was by far the sensation, and was prepared perfectly. Overall, we recommend this : Chinese restaurant over any others that we have tried in tbe immediate area. Our only , major complaints were in the • flavor of the tea, the greasy · naodles and tbe fact that the two waiters were overwhelmed by the approximately twenty people dining there. We were pleasantly -surprised to find out that they deliver to campus, which we discovered when we were asked directions to West Detm by one of the · ··waiters. The prices were more than fair, and so was our tip. · In our next article; Ollie and Morris will conquer virgin · territory in the world of fine . dining. Thank you fQr reading and keep on eating. DO YOU LOVE YOUR PAR:ENTS? MAKE THEIR PA.RENTS WEEKEND ·REALLY SPECIAL BY HELPING TO ORGANlZE IT! If you are interested· in being on Parents' Weekend Committee or helping in any way, please call Ann McDermott at 374-6984. .. -~~ .. ~--.··'··~-~ -'~ By TOM SARTINI On Thursday, November 10, the FaU 19,88 MBA Colloquium closed with a talk by criminal lawyer E. Stewart Jones about the reforms and defonnities of the Civil Justice System, of wh,icb be js a .strong supporter~ for he. claims it is socially responsible and effective. - He b~gan his lecture by citing -past · case.s which involved factors of safety and liability. One such case involved a man in an accident while driving a 1973 Ford Pinto. The car had been impacted from the ..rear, causing heavy pressure on the fuel tank which is located very far back as a ,production result. Ford knew of this error from their own testing prior to this particular accident. They also knew that the cost to remedy the situation would cost roughly $138 million. The chances figuring about a third of this cost ·went to liability claims. · Ford was sued in this case and held liable. The verdict was against Ford for $125 million. The importance of this c:;tse set - a precedent -that human life is , _first priority and that qompanies who take such risks must be prepared for the _consequences. The goal is, to better consumer safety as well as evoke. deterrence among c 0 mp~j¢s who cut comers on · safety. · Jones stated that responsibility imd deterrence will unquestionably bring better safety. ·A system that finds fault, such as this case, will)lo a number of thiligs. It :W~l punish the wro!lg doers, send a signal about unsafe products and enforce qJ;lal:i,ty control. The last topic of this prominent lawyers discussion was on caps. A cap is a limited amount of coverage covering a wide variety .· pf cases. _Jones referred to caps of irtsurance and worker's compensation. He said that the pain, suffering and damage cap is a flawed concept. That is why, as previously stated, itis important for a client to attempt to collf'..ct E!S much as possible at .one .time. The idea of t.'Ie cap is to cover all .jn need. lfowever, the, degrees vary greatly from case to case. Small cases can be full covered while larger, more deserviJ]g, cannot, under the cap. system. Money is . reimbursed for income and bill loss.. This covets .for one's survival yet the pain and sufferimg mol).ey must also he , sought and distributed in order to grant happiness to life that it may not have under jusJ the survival . dollars. The pain and sufferiilg dollars settle the case where the ·plaintiff i~- satisfied as well as assure society that it will not be responsible or have a social obligaf;ion to uphold by paying or caring for the victim if not properly compensated. After Jon~s stated why caps have drawbacks; he closed his lecture by saying that today's society has safer products. a safer ecvironment, and safer Continued on page 9 •• . I

i ! CONCOKPIE;N,SlS January 19, 1989 Page 9 . . . . FEATURE ARTIC/LE.S f JSU Spollsors K.ALLAH - Your Fantasy Weekend Get-Away By TRACEY PRYLUCK lrnagme spending a weekend relaxing, meeting .new people, and possibly getting in some cros.s.-country skiing., tobogganing or ice skating, while snaring a. Jewish experience, all at beautiful Silver Bay on Lake George in the Adirondacks. Granted, this . . . may not appeal to everyone, but for some of you avid readers out there, this may just be the experience for you. Kallah is a Jewish Retreat Weekend, held annually in conjunction with JSC-Hillel at SlJNY A, RPI-Rus-sell Sage Hillel, and Skidm0re Hillel. This year's weekend will center around the theme of Israel today. Among the topic!:l-:- being consiaered for discussion are the rise of the reLigious parties. in Israel, t;he Palestinian State conflict, and Israel's recent invasion of Lebanon. Nothing has been finalized yet, so new ideas.are certainly welcome. S a t u rd a y n i g h t entertainment, probably in the form of a dance, as well as Satmday Mte:flloon and Sunday rnornJng activides, and the celebration of Shabbat will be other highlights of tbe weekend. · Ka1lah will be held Friday evening, February Z4 through Sunday aftemoon, February 26. Due to a large subsidy from the JSU, the weekend wiU cost $50 for JSU members and $70 for non JSU members. AU non~members who attend KaHah will automatically become JSU members. Applications are available ~in the Kosher Kitchen, or can be obtained by contacting the Union College Tri~City representatives, Rob Sternberg and Tracey Pryluck, the JSU adviser. Carol,Needleman, or any JSU lmard member. . Construction behind Achilles Rink Old, But Informative continued from page 8 hospitals. They will proceed to get better for the ri~ks are not worth the consequences. Tbe ability to hold the responsible acco11ntable is greeter. The quality. of life in our spciety needs to be safe. This is the goal. .. E. Stewart Jones is a trial lawyer in private practice in Troy, New York, a graduate of safety and insurance. Medical· malpr.actice was another topic::s: S.tew!lrt lones , spoke 'on. Again be stressed .. . the prolonging of life. He cited cases wbere doctors did not take enough care in examining or testing the patient thoroughly, There have· been cases where a wrong kidney was removed, leaving the bad one in while taking the good one out.. Another case involved a patient with a brain tumor. The neurosurgeon misread the cat scan and instead of removing the tumor. he removed go:Od healthy brajn tissue on the other side of the brain. As with the Ford Motor Company, medicine is also a business and doctors must also be conscious to the importance of life in this respect. This is why malpractice insuranc.e is presently so costly. It is better to take the extra tests and get second opinions. Doctors should be more than willing to do what is needed for the patient, as well as legally protect themselves. This is not to say that all doctors are bad, yet· they are human. D.efensive medicine is preventive medicine. These DUTCHMEN'S . ' D'INNER is back for the winter term. WEDNESDAY, January 25 Please sign up to reserve a space. The Dinner Features Your Choice of: \ - Pritne Rib - Chicken Cutlet Pannesan - Shrilllp Scampi examples clarify t·he importance of human rights over profitability. Jones then led into the topic of insurance and who is entitled to it, and how it .should be distributed. · He· stated that the insurance industry is the wealthiest industry today, even outperforming the stockmarket in percent of profit. His feeling is that the person or persons involved in a serious case of injury should be compensated for loss of income and all bills. pertaining, as well WHAT IT IS •.. as for general pain and suffering. The victim is better off trying to collect as much out of a case as possible at one time, and compensate where necessary. He. has authored numerous legal articles and publications. He is a fellow of the International Academy of Trial Lawyers, the American College of Trial Lawyers, American Board of Criminal Lawyers, and the American Bar Association. BOWl AN INTRAMURAL COMPETITION BETWEEN TEAMS OF STUDENTS, 4 PLAYERS PLUS 1 ALTERNATE, TO ANSWER CORRECTLY A SERIES OF QUESTIONS FROM HISTORY, CURRENT EVENTS, MUSIC, FILM, LITERATURE, SCIENCE SPORTS, ETC. 'l'EAl\fS ••• COMPETITION LIMITED TO 16 TEAMS 4 PLAYERS (ONE OF WHICH IS DESIGNATED CAPTAIN) + 1 ALTERNATE REGISTRATION •.• Monday- Thursday, January 16-19,1989 8:30am-4:30pm Student Activities Office College Center 408 COMPETITION m Double Elimination Each game is 14 minutes in length FIRST ROUND COMPETITION ••• . Week of Januaey 23, 1989 MORE DETAILS TO FOLLOW QUESTIONS/INFORMATION ... STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE COLLEGE CENTER 408 370-6129

' ! CONCORDI~NSIS January 19,. 1989 - . . . WHEN TO GO WHERE: THE COLLEGE CE·NT·ER 370-.6129 MON.- FRL ..................... I ••• I • I •••••••••••••••••• 7:00 AM -1 :00 AM SAT.-SUN ..... ; ....................................... 10:00 AM -1:00AM INFORMATIONITI·c:KET BOOTH 3.7·0-6369 MON.- SUN: ... I' I ••• I •••••••••••••••••••••• I ••••••••••• 12:00 PM -1 :00 AM C:ENTRAL MAIL SE·RVICE 370-6048· MO'N.- FRI.. I I I •••• I ••••••• ••• .7:00 AM -12 NOON; 1 :00 PM -3:30 P·M . THE c·oLLEGE BOOKSTO.RE 370-6188 . . - . . . . M·ON.- FRL. I I I ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 8:45AM·- 4:30 PM . . ' S.A T ........ ·-· .................... •· ............ ··-· ..... I ••••••••••••• 11 :_00 AM ... 3;00 P·M. s u:N ............................................................... · ........... · ... c Lo·s·E.D· RECREATION ROOM* . . ; ' ~ .. ' . . MON.- FRI .... ··~··· ... · ................................. 8:30AM -12:30 AM SAT.-SUN .... ~ .................................. 12:00 NOON -1:2:30 AM *Pool table equipment is available at the lnformatioh/Ticket Booth beginning at noori . DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT (CASH ONL f) 370-6051 MON.- FRL ............................. i ••••••••••••• 8:00 AM - 11 :15 PM* · Continental Breakfast.- .............. · ........... · ..•.. 8:00. AM -8:30 AM i= uH Breakfast. .......... ~ ...................... ~ ...... 8:_3p AM - 11 :30 AM Luncheon .......................... a ••••••••••• ~ ••••••• f1:~30 AM -1:30PM · - *H-o+ ·F··.·a· a' .d.'&·. ··G. ··r·,~-1·1 .,.1ems . . , .. '• .... ,,, ' '. ,,, :. .· ... s· ·a·. A A' .·M· ... : ·j·:o. ~3·: ·a·; na..:.c\:::• ;;;.Jil,:;;·~u.G 1 . .. ,L· · · .· ~~; .. ,., · .• ·.-.~: •••••• ~~.~···•r•••;••·.•········-•·_)v .... _···;_ ... -:-- ... :;._ .•.... ~·· .r..lVI:...::-•·2.! ···~·-:·. Fountain and Snack items always ·available ahy time. _ ~~: .. DUTCHMAN'S RATHSKE·LLAR . . , ~- MON .. ~ ·FRI~- .... ~ ................................. ~ ..... 11 :oo AM- a:ocr:P.M* Meal Card Hours (lunch) ............ ~ ............. 1· ;1 :30 AM--- 2:·on PM Meal Card Hours (dinner) ......... : ........ : .... ~ ... 4:30AM - 7:0~ PM SAT. - SUN ... I •••••••••••••••••••••••• I •••• I ••••••••• I I .4:00 PM - 9:GS PM . - . *Note: Cooked to order items available until one half hour before closing. UPPERCLASSMEN'S DINING HALL (meal plan & cash) 370-6139 MON.- FRl. LUNCH ................... I •• I. I I ••••••••• 11 :30 AM ~1:30AM MO.N.- FRL OI:N·NER ............... I •••• · ••••••••• .- ••• 5:00AM- @.:30 AM , Please visit West College Dining Hall for all your weekend 'brunches and dinners. . WEST· COLLEGE DINING HALL · MON.- FRI. FULL BREAKFAST ..... ~ ...•......... 7:30AM-9:00AM . . MON.- FRI. LUNCH ........... I ••••••••••• ; •••••••••• 11 :30 AM - 1 :30 PM ·' · . M-Oi~.- -.SU:N. DINNER .............................•. 5:00PM.- 6:30PM . SAT~;-~·U.N ... ;:;·· . ~- .· Continental B:reakfast. .....................•..... 1 0:00 AM -1 0:30 AM Brunch ................................................. 1 0:30 AM - 1 :00 PM · Dinner .... · ................................................ 5:00 PM - 6:30 PM· ROCK 'N'R.OLL PIZZA PUB DELIVERS D A I LY ............ I I ••••••••••••••••••• I •••••••••••••••• 4 :00 p M -11 :00 PM· · _; Please note\''.after hours\ and Weekend special catered meals requiring · u'nit staff wiH all be accomodated in the Hale House/Old Chapel Com·plex .. Thank you for your continued support. - • - • .. ' . . ,

CONCORDiENSlS January 19, 1989 'Page 11 THlS WEEK IN THE WORLD by Shelley Szymko WALL STREET JOURNAL (1 /10/89~ 1 /16/89} Libya: Evidence has been found connecting German 'firms to the building of chemical weapons in Libya. _Chancellm Kohl, .trying to minimize damage, has called the involvement \com~ pletely unacceptable.\ Also, proposed aerial man~:Juvers near Libya by U.S. Navy fighters hav~ been cancelled. This announcement came as the U.N. security council debated over· whether to condemn the U.~. for downing two Ubyan planes ·. January 4. Hungary: New laws initiated by the Hungarian Parliament Will allow citizen$ to demonstrate· and join parties otherthan the Communi~tparty. A separate law to be passed later this year would regulate the parties' Qperation, allowing non-Communists to field candidates. The passage of these laws for a multiparty. sy$tem v.:as brought about by many months of debate. · . 'Israel: An Israeli newspaper stated that a senior general resigned after complaining that putting down the Palestin1an .. uprising· could damage soldie~s· moral character. On, the •. contrary, the army chief. of staff stated that the troops. are . unable tq stop the rebellion because it is too po.litical. Both releases are likely 10 incf:(:)ase debate in Israel on the role of the army. · · Yugoslavia: Communist and state leaders in Montegro, Yugoslavia have banded together and have resigned, after several days of protests over the economy and use of power. Workers once ousted regional 'leaders in northern Vojvodjna in tlie Serbian republic. However, the attempt in Montenengro was crushed. Sri Lanka: Newly elected President Premadasa of Sr:i Lanka has e.nded . a five-and-a-half year st<:lte of emergency ahead of schedule. This action ·allows for the release of 'l:wndreds of political prisoners. EthnJc violence has dropped reatly since he took office. · . OPERATION C~OSSROADS . J;().flilhAvcnuc. Sulle jJO.New Vmk. N.V. 10011 TcJ.:,i21ll2-12·K~50 .C.1hle; Crm1.,ma1L,. Nc~• York , INC. .· ·· Operation Cro~.$,roa~s Africa. is a prjva~e. non-pr9fit, non- governmental organization tliat promotes work, travel and study in Africa and the Caribbean as a vehicle for cross- • curtur.al exchaoge and understanding. Since its founding in 1958 by .O.r. James H. Robinson, Crossroads has sent more than 8,000 volunteers to thirty-four English-, French-. and Portuguese-speaking African countries, and more than fifteen Caribbean nations. · : There are four unique opportunities offered to high school~ aged students, undergraduates and graduate students, as well as professionals, in Africa and th.e Caribbean. THE CARJEJEAN P,AOGRAM: Offers high school students the opportunity to live and'· work in Caribbean for six and one- half weeks on community service projects. This year we are . developing projects in the Caribbean for college students as well. - THE AFRICA PROGRAM: Groups of eight-to-twelve live and work side by side with their African counterparts on community development projects which the villagers have .identified as essential to their development Participants must be at least 18 years of age. · THE JAMES H. ROBINSON INTERNSHIP IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT: An opporunity for · minority graduate students to gain valuable experience working With Private Voluntary Organizations in Africa for 9-to- 12 months. · . GROUP OPPORTUNITES: We are also recruiting qualified . · persons to lead our group in the Caribbean and in Africa. · Individuals 24 years of age and older are enCQuraged to apply. Leaders. are ·responsible for a group ,of 8 to 12 participant&. Travel and living expenses, as well as a small honorarium, are provided for leaders. .FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: FOOD· AND, MONEY COLLECTION Plea~e give either cans of food or .50¢ to · . a dollar to buy food for the homeless 'and hungry in Schenectady~ I will be ill · .. the College Center on . · Mon. 2Srd. Wed. 25th. and Fri. 27th to collect donations tor the Salyation .Anny. , - Eric Oddleifson 382-9688. • .. . . . ' . - .. INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Front to back: Michelle Alfano! Jeff Liberman, liz, Brian Moss, Mel Levine, Robin Baskin on the beach .of El_ba. Elba - The Land of·the Lost By R. REED WHIDDER Yes, I -went on a term abroad, and I cannot begin to tell you how absolutely wonderful it was. Italy is a warm. friendly country. We all felt quite at home in Florence, .and all of us were sad to l~ve. One could easily say that the term was enhanced by the individual. and to say the least. very interesting experiences. Ask anyone who went, and they'll tell you some thrilling adventure or some intriguing ordeal that can only be icing on the tenn .to Italy cake. For me, finding my future home was one experience that will make this term live in my memory forever. On October 7, seven of us headed for the little island paradise of Elba, a small island just off the coast of Italy. A two-:hour train ride from Florence will get you to the port from which a ferry will take you to the land to which Napoleon was ~exiled. Hardly an exile-- believe me, if I were Napoleon, I would not have minded in the least being forced to live on Elba. After finding the tourist office, we headed to the Tables Mondays: 12:45- 1:45 FRENCH SPANISH JAPANESE Tuesdays: 11:3.0 - 12:30 CHINESE Wednesdays: 12:45- 1:45 GERMAN RUSSIAN Thursdays: 11:30 - 12:30 ITALIAN Meet in the Upperclass Diningroom in the College Center. ap'-'\l\ttnenfs we would stay in for the weekend. An apartment, yes, and we paid only 30 dollars for the whole weekend. We had comfortable beds, clean rooms, and kitchens. We cooked our own meals, and were two minutes away from the beach. The beach-- that summer-like beach-- while you were here facing mid terms, we were sitting on the beach. We lounged around on the sand, walked in the water, read books for pleasure, listened to music, and slept in the watm. sun, thinking briefly of fall in Schenectady. Robin Baskin and I climbed on :the rocks and explored the island. From the high -cliffs we gazed down into the blue waters below. We watched scuba divers surfacing once in a while, aiJd felt the heat of the sun on our backs. I also went sailing when I was there. I .learned how to sail that weekend on those blue, blue waters surrounding that fabulous hide-aw2y. Malissa Levine and I were taught by Brian Moss on a 14-foot sailboat. With dexterity and ease, Melissa would take the rudder while I would handle the jib. Brian explained useful nautical terms such as port, starboard, windward and leeward. Back on the beach, Michele Alfano, Jeff Leiberman, Robin Baskin and Liz (another student we met in Florence) continued to bask in the sun. Dinner, I must admit, wa~. the most fun. Having our own kitchens, we thought it best and least expensive to buy our own food and cook ill the apartments. We had pasta al sugo, delicious fresh vegetables, several loaves of bread, and, of course, lots of w.ine. Perhaps that's why our dinners were so much fun. ·I haven't decided if it was actually making the dinner or eatiQg it that was more fun. Nothing could spoil it-- not having wine poured in my lap, not having to run after every thing after the strong winds at night, not even the threat of arson that terrorized the island that week. We stayed as long as we could on the island, and regretted we had no more time to see the rest of Elba. It is my perfect paradise-- hardly any traffic, great seafood, and very inspirationaL I'm going to live there when I get older . •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• : NUTELLA PARTY : ! AT THE INTERNATIONAL HOUSE : : 2nd Floor Webster : ~ Tonight 10 pm : * * : ®Nutella : * * FERRO * THE ORIGINAL HAZEL NUT SPREAD Everybody Welcome * * * * * * * * * •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ITALIAN MOVIE Tuesday, January 24th ·· ''8k 1/2'' by F. Fellini College Center Auditorium at 7:30pm

Page 12 CONCOR:DIENSlS January 19, 1989 OJnnrorbtrnsis - Fo;unded at Union Colldge 1877 ....._ ............... _ The New Mid-Week Social Policy Last week the College enacted a new social policy. Dean Mammola ~tates that; \The idea is to have~a party that is responsible.\ We find the use of the word \responsible\ ironic as the new policy strips students of responsibility for their own social lives. Poor classroom attendance was presumed to be an ill effect of weeknight parties. This may be true, but denying the students the right to have parties on campus during the week is denying them the right to take responsibility for themselves, their academic careers, and their social lives. Isn't this, after all, what college is about? · The new mid-week social policy is yet .another example of the College dictating decisions to the student body. Why didn't the college give the students a chance to defend mid-week social life? After all, 1t is five of the seven nights in a week. This would have allowed students to prove that they could take on positive initiatives to improve party atmosphere themselves (an atmosphere which may have been a direct result of the Colle~e's failure to provide a better alternative). In doing so, the College would be providing the students with an alternative to a tight and patronizing social policy. Ultimately, it would have let the student body take on the responsibility of its own social life. The majority of students were slapped ~n the face by the newly implemented social policy the first week of this tenn-':Yithout warning. For the most part, the student body was unaware that the social events at Union were even being evaluated by the Collegy. If the College had voiced its concern openly, it seems likely that a more positive attitude from the student body could have been fostered. This is not the first time the College has proceeded in such a fashion. The apathy that lingers amidst the Union student body is not unwarranted. Repeatedly, over the course of the past two· years, students have been completely overlooked as to- what they want. The list ranges from the installation of Gel-Time to the renovation of the College Center to the attempted cut in Skellar hours last year. These are decisions that were made without regard to student opinion. It's common knowledge that you can't know what someone else _ wants unless you ask. Shooting in the dark, tzying to figure what the students need and want - a policy which the College has adopted (and Concordlensis has criticized in previous editorials) - is hardly an efficient means by which to get goals accomplished. Without delving deeply into the other arguments against the new mid-week social policy, concerns over an exodus of students to off-campus social events have been raised. The issue of drinking and driving naturally goes hand-in-hand with this argument. One must wonder if the students that this policy is primarily directed at will be in more danger as a result of this new policy. At present, Greek organizations af Union are unsure of exactly where they stand. The policies ,outlined in the memo from the Dean's office have raised questions as to the degree of enforcement and the extent of subsequent penalties ~·once again, an example of the College's lack of communication with the student body. It has been a week and a half since news of the social policy hit campus, and heated debate has s-ubsided slightly. However, the students still feel slighted - slighted due to the loss of part of their social life, and, more importantly, a mandatory forfeiture of the privilege to use their own judgement. We urge the College to reconsider the new social policy. However~ if the College remains adamant, it would be in its own best interest to provide popular and worthwhile social alternatives for the student body. And if we may make a suggestion: consult the students about what alternatives they want. LETTERS .· New Party Policy Petliuzt\!s campus Population .. · Tb the Editor: Sometimes a person wonders why things are done and who makes those things happen. Last week Dean Mammola stated in a memo to. fraternities that they cotild no longer have weekday parties. His reason for doing so was bee a use o-f irresponsible drinking and the frequency of minors being served alcohol at fraternities,· a · resul:t of a local parent complaining that his 14 year old daughter :had been drinldng at a fraternity. Unfortunately, I don't believe those are the true reasons for Dean Mammola's decision. There have been intro courses). Now we ltave a system where .a stuc!ent can plan their schedule so d1ey only have classes on Tuesday and Thursday. That leaves Sunday night, Tuesday night and Thursday night open for socializing. If you expect a· freshman to do well in such an unstructured environment then you are being very optomistic. Most of them have not learned the time· management skills necessary. To punish those of us that do well and wish to sociali~e on those evenings we ha:ve free regardless of what day, is wrong. Fraternities are not responsible for the 44% of the freshman class who ate on A. W. The freshmen. are responsible for themselves. Two years ago, I was put on academic suspension. I didn't blame fraternities for the fact I · flunked out of school I blamed my ow11 self for tht} :lack of a goo,d time managment J).tagr!ll which wouJd keep .me l.lP to date on ~y school worl. 1'oday with a good tinie management program. I do well in school and still go to :parties. As for roinars drinldng; by stopping weekda-y parties, you will not stop tll:at. They will still drink on. -weekends at registered parties. Stopping weekday parti~s is· merely a way for tlte college administration to sllift the . academic pro'blems of this community away from itself onto the shoulders of · fraternities. lilstead of trying to shift the blame it would be much easier for the -college tQ admit that gel-time is not working, as many of the students :and :faculty said it wouldn't, two years ago~ BlllHardy · weekday parties on this campus since I ;have been here (1985), and I am certain that minors, then below the age of 19, drank at fraternities. One example would be a prospective student who comes to visit Union and goes to a party- wlth their host. This person, still in high .school, is most likely ~stolen Skulls Degrade Institution To the Editor: under the age of 18. So Toward the end of the e:xam nothing is new about minors . 1 period last term three skulls drinking at fratem,ities. What were stolen from a I must ask, is new? demonstration case in the It just so happens that Biology Department. according to student forum, · Replacement t;osts for these 44% of ,the freshman class is · skulls will exceed $700~ This on academic warning after is money that must now oe only one term at Union. It taken from other parts--of our just so happens that this is program, and, of course, the first class to be admited to ultimately our students . .wm Union without consideration suffer. Not only is it expensive of SAT scores. It just so to replace these items, but it happens that gel-time allows encourages us to cater to the students to have classes only lowest common denominator two days a week. Is this the · of student conduct when~ we result of any fraternities plan our departmental displays. actions? I don't think so. In · · this case. fraternities are being used as scapegoats for the college's problems. There have been no more parties this year than there have been in any previous year. So how can the college · punish fraternities - and the students in general for something which is not our fault? You cannot expect a freshman class to come t~ Union from a structured high school environment to a very unstructured college environment and do well. Previous freshman classes have not had many problems · because they had classes at least four days a week and learned to budget their titne. The college abolished that system which offered a midweek party night (Tuesdays) because there were no classes on Wednesdays (except for a few department -Get a clue. Get an op-inion. Read Coneordiensis NEWS ANALYSIS. Every Week Page Two. We would l.ilce to h:ave these skulls retutned to the department. If they appear in the department spoJ1taneously, we wuld .appreciate ~t, and no . questions will be asked. If we or the security department find them • and we will look for them - we will try our best to have those (Jo~sessing the skulls dismissed from college. · The e;ollege .~ , f~c.J,dty administration. alld student~ ~ cannot tolerate this type of conduct. It degrades the institution. Peter Tobiessen. Ch:ai:r of Biology

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS January 19, 1989 <!tnli.CJlfbirnsbl Founded at Union College 1877 __ ......_.._ The New Social Mid-Week Policy Last week the College enacted a new social policy. Dean. Mammola. stat~~ that, \.The idea is to have.a party that IS respons1ble. We fmd the use of the word \responsibl~\. i~onic as th~ new policy strips students of responsibility for the1r own social lives. Poor classroom attendance was presumed to be an ill effect of weeknight pa~ies. This may be true, but denyi:ag the students the nght to have parties on campus duri:ag the week is denying them the right to take responsibility for themselves, their academic careers, and their social lives. Isn't this, after all, what college is about? The new mid-week social policy is yet another example of the College dictating decisions to the student body. Why didn't the college give the students a chance to defend mid-week social life? After all, it is five of the seven nights in a week. This would have allowed students to prove that they could take on positive initiatives to improve party atmosphere t~emselves (an atmosphere which may have been a duect result of the College's failure to provide a better alternative). In doing ·so, the College would be providing the students with an alternative to a tight and patronizing social policy. Ultimately, it would have let the student body take on the responsibility of its own social life. The majority of students were slapped in the face by the newly implemented social policy the first week of this term-w,ithout warning. For the most part, the student body was unaware that the social events at Union were even being evaluated by the College. If the College had voiced its concern openly, it seems likely that a more positive attitude from the student body could have been fostered. This is not the first time the College has proceeded in such a fashion. The apathy that lingers amidst the Union student body is not unwarranted. Repeatedly, over the course of the past two years, students have been completely overlooked as to what they want. The list ranges from the installation of Gel-Time to the renovation of the College Center to the attempted cut in Skellar hours last year. These are decisions that were made without regard to student opinion. It's common knowledge that you can't know what someone else wants unless you ask. Shooting in the dark, trying to fig~re what the students need and want -.a policy wh1ch the College has adopted (and Concordiensis has criticized in previous editorials)- is hardly an efficient means by which to get goals accomplished. Without delving deeply into the other arguments against the new mid-week social policy, concerns over an exodus of students to off-campus social events have been raised. The issue of drinking and driving naturally goes hand-in-hand with this argument. One must wonder if the students that this policy is primarily directed at will be in more danger as a result of this new policy. At present, Greek organizations at Union are unsure of exactly where they stand. The policies outlined in the memo from the Dean's office have raised questions as to the degree of enforcement and the extent of subsequent penalties - once again, an example of the College's lack of communication with the student body. It has been a week and a half since news of the social policy hit campus, and heated debate has subsided slightly. However, the students still feel slighted - slighted due to the loss of part of their social life, and, more importantly, a mandatory forfeiture of the privilege to use their own judgement. We urge the College to reconsider the new social policy. However, if the College remains adamant, it would be in its own best interest to provide popular and worthwhile social alternatives for the student body. And if we may make a suggestion: consult the students about what alternatives they want. LETTER,S New Party Policy Penalizes Campus Population To the Editor: Sometimes a person wonders why things are done and who makes those things happen. Last week Dean Mammola stated in a memo to fraternities that they ceuld no longer have weekday parties. His reason for tloing so was because of irresponsible drinking and the frequency of IIlinors being served alcohol at fratemities, a result of a local Jlarent complaining that his 14 year old daughter had been drinking at a fraternity. Unfortunately, I don't believe those are the true reasons for Dean Mammola's decision. There have been weekday parties Oil this campus since I have \been here (1985), and I am certaill that minors, then below the age of 19, drank at fraternities. One example would be a prospective student who comes to visit Uni(}n and goes to a party with their host. This person, still in high school, is inost likely under the age of 18. So nothing is new about minors drinking at fraternities. What I must ask, is new? It just so happeas that according to student forum, 44% of the freshman class is on academic warning after only one term at Uni<m. It just so happens that this is the first class w be admited to Union without consideration of SAT scores. It just so happens that gel-time allows students to have classes only two days a week. Is tllis the result of any fraternities actions? I don't think so. In this case, fraternities are being used as scapegoats fc)f the college's problems. There have been no more parties this year than there have been in any previous year. So how can the college punish fraternities - a11d the students in general for something which is not our fault? You cannot e:xpect a freshman class to come to Union from a structured high school environment ro a very unstructured college environment and do we11. Previous freshman classes have not had many pr()blems because they llad classes at least four days a week and learned to budget their time. The college abolished that system which offered a midweek party night (Tuesdays) because there were no classes on Wedm~sdays (except for a few department Get a clue. Get an opinion. Read Concordiensis NEWS ANALYSIS. Every Week Page Two. intro cowses). Now we have a system where a student can plaa their schedule so they only ha,ve classes on Tuesday and Thursday. That leaves Sunday night, Tuesday night aDd Thursday night open for socializing. If you expect a freshman to do well in such an unstrl!lctured environment then you are being very optom1stic. Most of them have not learned the time management skills necessary. To punish those of us that do well and wish to socialize on those evenings we have free regru:d1ess of what day, is wrong. Fraternities arc not resf)Onsible for the 44% of the freshman class wlw are on A W. The freshmen are responsible for themselves. Two years ago, I was put on academic suspension. I didn't blame fraternities for the fact I flunked out of school. I blamed my own self for the lack of a good time managment progrm which would keep me up to date on my school work. Today with a good time management program, I do well in school and still go to parties. As for minors drirrking, by stopping weekday parties, you will not stop that. They will still drink on weekend's at registered parties. Stopping weekday parties is merely a way for the college administration to shift the academic pmblerns of this community away fmm itself onto the shoulders of fraternities. 1nstead of trying to shift the blame it would be much easier for the college to admit that gel-time is not working, as many of the students and faculty said it wouldn't, two years ago. Bill Hardy Stolen Skulls Degrade Institution To the Editor: Toward the end of the exam ' period last term three skulls were stolen from a demonstration case in the Biology Department. Replacement costs for these skulls win exceed $700. This is money tbat must now be taken from other parts cf our program, and, of course, ultimately our students will suffer. Not only is it expensive to replace these items, but it encourages us to cater to the lowest common denominator of student conduct when we plan our departmental displays. We would like to have these skulls returned to the department. If they appear in the department spontaneously, we wuld appreciate it, and no questions will be asked. If we or the security department find them - and we will look for them - we will try our best to have those possessing the skulls dismissed from college. The college faculty administration and students - cannot tolerate this type of conduct. It degrades the institution. Peter Tobiessen, Chair of Biology

,_. CONCORDIENSIS ltMuary 19, 1989 P~ge 13 LETTERS ,Seniors Claim New Social Policy \Self-Destructive'' The Quest for Contributions To the Edltor: : As seniors, we feel ·a ·necessity to make some observations. about the quality of life here at Union College; · it is for this reason that we wtite to you today. In early 1985, .as we made our first visit to Union College, .. we were impressed with most aspects of the •College, beth socially· and academically. lbe trustees of the scheol had apportioned a large part of the college's budget for the subsequent years to renovations of the Alumni Gymnasium and Carnegie, the College Center. . The SkeHar came alive every night with music, friends and good times for all students. Barrons' College Survey raised Union's statute that year ftom Highly Competitive to Very Highly <:ompetitive. It seemed tp us that Union College truly had our bet interests at heart. It is unfortunate that with five months left in our college ·careers, we find ourselves questioning Union's true commitment to the Student Body. With the renovations of Carnegie, we lost the Pub~- no great loss to U.§, as the building was closed before we became matriculated students. Then, as second-trimester freshmen, we were told that the Skellar would be closed for \renovations\; the taps removed, the bar chopped in ·half, and a delicatessen of sorts dropped into the void left by the absence of a Union College-sponsored night life. Although always a part of the social life here on campus, the college Greek system adopted the full :s;esponsibility for providing the students · with ·some sort of campus-oriented night life. Certainly, the college did try to fill the void. The Social Alternatives committee was developed to plan various events and the Student Activities organization hired .Jive bands and DJ's to play in the atrium of the College Center. A 11 21 Club\ was opened for those of legal age in Hale House, and was later moved to the Skellar-Deli. Through the efforts of the Inter-Fraternity Council, an enhanced game room concept was developed for the third floor .of the College Center,. which was approved a:nd implemented by the administration. Each of .the aforementioned ventQl:es, with the exception of the game room, was .unfortunately, unsuccessful. The students still gravitate towards the Greek system. ·for evening entertainment. We now reach the next milestone in the Self-Destruction of Union College; Tbe Administration has currently info·rmed all Greek organizations. that they will no longer allow houses to register parties which are scheduled to take place during the academic week .. If a bouse decides to throw a party withou't prior re.gis.trat:ioil, security will surely surface to quickly close the party, and fine the house a substantial am~unt 0f money. we must now take a step into reality; one that might not please the reader, but one that surely exists. The fact remains that the college student needs some outlet during the week. The school does not provide any such environment, as we have noted with the closings of the Pub and SkeHar. Now, fines shall be levied ujpon any Greek organization which provides such an outlet. Therefore, the college student must seek elsewhere for this . nightlife. Although · unfortunate, it is inherently obvious, even to the most casual of observers, that the student has three choices. The first would be to abstain from all social ·activity during the week We must not be naive; to most students, \social activity\ means a party atmosphere where music, friends, (and in many cases) alcohol abollnd. It is our observtion, and prediction, that . a large percentage of the studerit body will not choose this venue. Secondly, is an increase in the use of illegal narcotics by students. Finally, (and frankly, the most frightening to students, parents and the administration) is the increased nllmber of students who drive to remote iocations to seek entertai,nm~11t Students will ·find that party at Skidmore, or that bar in Albany, and <hive home after three to four hCllll'S of \heavy partying\. the results of this phenomenon are mast evident The mot:ale ()n campus. has decreased incredibly over the past four years. Students really feel as th e()ugh the administration bas 11<> regard for them. this was demonstrated in the Gel-Time issue. Students were ask~.d to vote on this issue, and the results showed that the student body vehemently opposed .the change in scheduling practices. However; the administration moved forward. w•ith the plan,. disregarding the s:entiments ·rl the students~ This lack of spirit is shown, in in3Jly respects, iaduding low student attendance at college athletic events. How does this lack of spirit reflect upo11 prespective students who vis.it our campus? Prospective !ltudents take several tl1iugs into consideration .wlten deciding upon which ill~titutiort they will choose to ~ttend for the four most impouta11t years of their lives. The two aspects most actively •COilsidered are · • academics and _s()cial life. Acad~mically. Union College offers a very good curriculum. For the·most part, the faculty are excellently tntined in their fields and easily accessible to students. H(Hvever, the prob,ibitive social policy currently implemented across the campus might drive bright prospectives. aw:ay. opening spaces for the less academically inclined. So where d() we go from het~? It seems t() us as though Unmn College is b.eaded on a course of self-destruction. The Administration rnust realize that the students have needs whiCh must be met; the new impositions placed upon the college Greek £ystem will cause stude!lts to turn , elsewhere for entertainment, and the results, in both the short and long mns. have the potential t,o become unpleasant Respectfully, Eva:n Pickus, 1989 Dail Hlll!Vitz, 1989 I ·• . To the Editor: I believe I am speaking for a large number of upperclassmen in voicing my distaste for recent changes in college policy which have profound ramifications on students' daily lives without any consultation with the latter, prior to implementing the policy. Three examples are: 1. The class of '89 being . screwed over by the lottery system. 2. Gel-time being forced on the student body despite vocal protest by · student representatives. 3. Now the dining service has closed upperclass dining every weekend including Friday night. Being able to eat at Carnigie is a privilege extended to all upperclassmen, Sophmore- Senior. We have all heard rumors ascerting that the dining service has not lived up , to the usual Union profit margin, but I do not see this as sufficient grounds to close the upperclass d~ning hall each weekend. • Why should upperclassmen be forced to diose between the Skeller, where $4.00 buys you 9 wings and 2 celery sticks, and lower class dining, where the atmosphere is poor, the food is sllb\'par and the coffee can't even be passed off as Folger's crystals. If one of the dining halls must be closed due to low attendance, why not close West, as was done last tcnn? I, as do many of my classmates feel that the dining service should look at the ramifications of their policies 'before they approve sweeping reforms. It is important for the administration to realize that, by stepping on the privileges of ·upperclassmen, they are solidifying the resolve of upperclassmen not to make contributions in the future. Joseph Ribinowitz Faculty Commended For Work on Annual Fund . . To the Editors: I wish to express publicly my appreciation to the Faculty of Union College for taking the time and making the effort to call conntributors to the Annual Fund. .. In this era of \Gimme . , mine\ few people ever express appreciation. As one who is continually solicitated by every real or imaginary institution, I can report that only the Union College Faculty have ever so called. I can't tell you what a refreshing breeze this brings when one expects an evening call to be another telemarketing effort. My thanks to the Faculty for this warm courtesy. Sincerely, William R. Grant, Trustee Class of 1949 Please Read This! Dear College Community, We sincerely aprreciate your active correspondence to Concordiensis this past term. The entire editorial board and staff encourage your continued input concerning recent events. Please be sure that you follow our set guidelines when submitting letters to the editors: All letters must be typed, double spaced and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00 pm on Tuesday preceeding weekly issuance. Any anonymous letters, or those over five hundred words ~ill not be accepted. Thank you. The Commentaries Editors DON'T LET IT BURN INSIDE ... VOICE YOUR OPINIONS ON THE COMMENTARIES PAGE. ANNOUNCEMENT A su-bcommittee of the Academic Affairs Council is conducting a review of the Gel-Time schedule in order to aid the AAC in its deliberations on Gel-Time prior to ~ faculty vote. The subcommittee, consisting of Professors Brad Lewis and Gary Reich and students John Meier and Keith Bemis, wiU be holding open hearings on Gel-Time on Tuesday, January 24 and Thursday., January 26 in Social Sciences 105, 2:30- 4:00. Anyone who·. wts:hes to submit written comments to the suocommittee or who wi~hes to test:ify but cannot do so at the times at which hearings are currently scheduled should contact Professor Reich (extension 6254, or c/o the Physics Department). • ,.'\\\ ..

CONCORDIENSIS January 19, 1989 Page l3 LETTERS Seniors Claim New Social PoHcy \Self-Destructive\ The Quest for Contributions To the Editor: As seniors, we feel a necessity to make some observations about the quality of life here at Union College; it is for this reason that we write to you today. In early 1985, as we made our first visit to Union College, we were impressed with most aspects of the college, beth socially and academically. The trustees of the school had apportioned a large part of the conege's budget for the subsequent years to renovations of the Alumni Gymnasium and Carnegie, the CoLlege Center. The Skellar came alive every night with music, friends and good times for all students. Barrons' College Survey raised Union's stature that year from Highly Competitive to Very Highly Competitive. It seemed t~ us that Union College truly had our bet interests at heart. lt is unfortunate that with five months left in our college careers, we find ourselves questioning Union's true commitment to the Student Body. With the renovations of Carnegie, we lost the Pub-- no great loss to us, as the building was closed before we became matriculated students. Then, as second-trimester freshmen, we were told that the SkeHar would be closed for \renovations\; the taps removed, the bar chopped in half, and a delicatessen of sorts dropped into the void left by the absence of a Union College-sponsored night life. Although always a part of the social life here on campus, the college Greek system adopted the full responsibility for providing the students witll some sort of campus-oriented night life. Certainly, the college did try to fill the void. The Social Alternatives committee was developed to plan various events and the Student Activities organization hired live bands and Drs to play in the atrium of the College Center. A \21 Club\ was opened for those of legal age in Hale House, and was later moved to the Skellar-Deli. Through the efforts of the Inter-Fraternity Coancil, an enhanced game room concept was developed for the third floor of the College Center, which was approved and implemented by the administration. Each of the aforementioned ventures, with the exception of the game room, was unfortunately~ unsuccessful. The students still gravitate towards the Greek system for evening entertainment. We now reach the next milestone in the Self-Destruction of Union College. The Administration has currently informed all Greek organizations that they will no longer al[ow houses to register parties which are scheduled to take place during the academic week. If a house aecides to throw a party without prior registration, security will surely surface to quickly close the party, and fine the house a substantial amount of money. We must now take a step into reality; one that might not please the reader, but one that surely exists. The fact remains that the college s1udent needs some outlet during the week. The school does not provide any such environment, as we have noted with the closings of the Pub and Skellar. Now, fines shall be levied ujpon any Greek organization which provides such an outlet. Therefore, the college student must seek elsewhere for this nightlife. AI though unfortunate, it is inherently obvious, even to the most casual of observers, that the student has three choices. The first would be to abstain from all social activity during the week. We must not be naive; to most students, \social activity\ means a party atmosphere where music, friends, (and in many cases) alcohol abound. It is our observtion, and prediction, that a large percentage of the student body will not choose this venue. Secondly, is an increase in the use of illegal narcotics by students. Finally, (and frankly, tile most frightening to students, parents and the administration) is the increased number of students who drive to remote locations to seek entertainment Students will find that party at Skidmore, or that bar in Albany. and drive home after three to four hours of \heavy partying\. the results of this phenomenon are most evident The morale on campus has decreased incredibly over the past four years. Students really feel as theough the administration has no regard for them. This was demonstrated in the Gel-Time issue. Students were asked to vote on this issue, and the results showed that the student body vehemently opposed the change in scheduling practices. However, the administration moved f>orward with the plan, disregarding the ser:ltiments of the students. This lack of spirit is shown, in many respects, including low student attendance at college athletic events. How does this lack of spirit reflect upon prospective students who visit our camp11s? Prospective students take several things into consideration when deciding upon which institution they will choose to attend for the four most important years of their lives. The two aspects most actively considered are academics and social life. Academical'ly, Union College offers a very good curriculum. For the most part, the faculty are excellently trained in their fields and easily accessible to students. However, the prohibitive social policy currently implemented across the campus might drive bright prospectives away, opening spaces for the less academically inclined. So where do we go from here? It seems to us as though Union College is headed on a course of self-destruction. The Administration must realize that the students have needs which must be met; the new impositions placed upon the college Greek system will cause students to turn elsewhere for entertainment, and the results, in both the short and long runs, have the potential to become unpleasant. Respectfully, Evan Pickus, 1989 Dan Hurwitz, 1989 I . To the Editor: mwgin, but I do not see this as sufficient grou11<is to close the up:perdass di11ing hall each weelcend. Why should upJerclassmen be forced to chose between the Skeller wllere $4.00 bu:ys you 9 wings and 2 celery sticks, and lower clas:; dining, where the atmosphere is poor, the food is sub-)lar, and the coffee can't evell be passed off as Folger's crystals. rf one of the dining halls must be closed due to low attendance, why not close West, as was d()ne last term? I believe I am speaking for a large number of upperclassmen in v,oicing my distaste for recent cllanges in college policy which have profound ramificatimts on students' daily lives without any consultation with the latter, prior to implementing the policy. Three examples are: 1. The class of '89 being screwed over by the lottery system. 2. Gel-time being forced on the student body despite vocal protest by student representatives. 3. Now the dining service has closed upperclass dining every weekend including Friday night. Being able to eat at Camigie is a privilege extended to all upperclassmen, Sophmore- Senior. We have all heard rumors ascerting that the dining service has not lived up . to the usual Union profit I, as do many of my classmates feel that the dining service should look at the ramifications of their policies 'before they approve sweeping reforms. It is important for the adm iaistration to realize that, by stepping on the privileges of ·upperclassmen, they arc solidifying the resolve of up:perclassmen not to make contributions in the future. Joseph Ribinowitz Faculty Commended For Work on Annual Fund To the Editors: I wish to express publicly my appreciation to the Faculty of Union College for taking the time and making the effort to call conntributors to the Annual Fund. In this era of \Gimme mine\ few people ever express appreciation. As one who is continually solicitated by every real or imaginary institution, I can report that only the Union College Faculty have ever so called. I can't tell you what a ref~eshing breeze this brings when one expects an evening call to be another telemarketing effort. My thanks to the Faculty for this warm courtesy. Si11cerely, William R_ Grant, Trustee Class of 1949 Please Read This! Dear College Community, We sincerely aprreciate your active correspondeNce to Concordiensis this past term. The entire editorial board and staff encourage your continued input concerning recent events. Please be sure that you follow our set guidelines when submitting letters to the editors: All letters must be typed. double spaced and submitted to the Concordicnsis office by 4:00pm on Tues<lay precccding weekly issuance. Any anonymous letters, or those over five hundred words will not be accepted. Thank you. The Commentaries Editors DON'T LET IT BURN INSIDE ... VOICE YOUR OPINIONS ON THE COMMENTARIES PAGE. ANNOUNCEMENT A su-bcommittee of the Academic Affairs Council is conducting a review of the Gel-Time schedule in order to aid the AAC in its deliberations on Gel-Time prior to a faculty vote. The subcommittee, consisting of Professors Brad Lewis and Gary Reich and students John Meier and Keith Bemis, will be holding op,en hearings on Gel-Time on Tuesday, January 24 and Thursday, January 26 in Social Sciences 105, 2:30- 4:00. Anyone who wishes to submit written comments to the subcommittee or who wishes to testify but cannot do so at the times at which hearings are currently scheduled should contact Professor Reich (extension 6254, or c/o the Physics Department).

Page 14 CONCQRDIENSIS January 19, 1989 LETTERS United Way Thanks Community Geology Depaft]Jlent Takes a Dig From Concordiensis To the Editors: ' We would like to thank the College Commttnity for its great response to the 1988 United Way Campaign. the College has again increased the level of pledges over the past. years and has again demonstrated its commitment to the cornmunities'around us. Our concern for those in need has ·been demonstrated ov~r the years in many ways varying from donations to volunteer work to student organization fund-raisers. The College and we as individuals do benefit from these efforts as they bring many <'Jf us closer together as a campus (Think about the loss of sleep shared with others during the marathons and the sideline kibitzers), and introduces us to many of our off campus neighbors. It even influences the view businesses have of the college because they are aware that we are among the tops ill the . To the Editors: Educational Di:vison in pledges • to the UW. Your issue of 3 November, by Since monies received are . · omission, provides me with unchanged, and ap:pnrpriate the opportunity to inform the recognition can and· should be · . students at Union of the given to the individ!lal or . · presence of a GEOLOGY group, it might now be worth • DEPARTMENT on campus. I considering giving designated .• · refer, of course, to the lack of a donations during the year as · door corresponding to this well .as the year end J>ledge . . department in the illustration through th~ United Way so that ·. for your cover Story .. It may be the College might benefit even that the relatively recent more frOm the charity of its · renewal of Geology at Union is members. · responsible. I hope you will be It might not be clear but . able to use the· appended donations need not be made to drawing to remedy the the UW funded programs and : oversight. GQ<>logy has a long services, but can be t() many history at Union, extending other organizations. back to· 1809. The department Again, thank you for yo11t help was dissolved in the late which has made this and past , . 1960's, ironically at just the campaigns successful! time when geological science Sincerely!> Judy Brauer and J<>hn Sowa Co-chairs of :the 1988 United Way Campaip-n was developing the revolutionary ideas· of plate tectonic theory in explanation of continental drift. The department was re-established in 1985, with the generous support of John Wold ('38}, and DGW has three faculty: Kurt HoHocher, Paul Ryberg,. and George Shaw. We offer a major in geology with sufficient fl,ex:ibility and rigor that students may pursue careers in any field ofge,ology .. !-would especially like to point out tbat there is not a shortage of career OJlportunities in .. geology, in spite -of the current G,EQLOGY· . downturn in the petroleum industry. Students interested in environmental and water resource issues are especially likely to have good prospects with a background in geology. In fact, the petroleum industry is becoming con~emed about a shorfu.ge of geologists in the coming decade. I urge any student with an interest in the outdoors, environmental and resource issues, . fossils,. minerals, or anyth;mg geological to come. by the Geology Department in Butterfield Hall and talk to us. . George. H. Shaw Chair, Geology Concordie-nsis ·regrets the omission of the Geology Department from its front page_ · spread in the November 3 issue. We also apologize to any other departments · overlooked. YEARBOOKS IT'S YOUR MOVE ARE ON SALE NOW IN_ MRS. MARRA'S OFFICE (CC408) . FOR $5 & $10 {1987 books) (1988 books) 1989 YEARBOOKS MAY ALSO BE ORDERED FOR $25 The Union College Amateur Radio Club, W2UC invites you to become a member. \Ham\ Radio operators are involved in emergency preparedness, satellite ope;ration, packe1 radio n~tworks, and technical experimentation. Licensed members can use the club•s radio station to .talk to other hams across the country or around the world. To find out more about Joining the ch.ib or about I icensi ng, contac1 Professor Magahiz at ext. 6374. @ REMEMBER TO 'REAPPLY FOR FINANCIAL AID (scholarship • loan + work study) BY- APRIL .15TH ' . Applications available at the Union College FinanciaJ . .Aid Office 2nd Floor, Becker Eall • 370-6123

CONCORDlENSlS January 19, 1989 Page 15 ~·91.JIIt·~ .~Id' l' / • . ::;m···- 1... - n·. ~t . . ~- 0 ... :..t.C~ -' ~~ L ~ ... ~ .• ,.li:Ufl·. UNION COLLE.GE TERM ABROAD WOJvtEN, ECONO:MIC DEVELOP~N1: AND TECHNOLOGY IN ·BRAZIL Focusin.g on the contribution of women to Brazilian deve·lopment and Oil urban planning. Falll989 - ·-' .... . ~- ·.·- ';,·, ~ .--:--- ; • • _;.t:' '~C\\ :-- ·. . . ;. . - INFORMATIONAL ·. MEETING ' . · F~pruary i :. · (room to' ;be announ.ced) I . ~ : • . • -_j : TO ~LL UN·ION COLLEGE STUDENTS WHO VOlUNTEER THEIR . ; VALUABLE TIME TO BE A BIG BROTHIRIBIG SISTER, WE'·AT TH:E • . io show our support for your efforts, stop by any time . Mon.-Fri. and register your liHie brother or little sister for a FREE meal· coupon with the manager and ••• KEEP UP .. ._ : ' .• ~ ~ ... ' \ -, I I I ' t·l ~·· .;:r ... ·::i:;:; ·· .. ' . :'~::~. BARNARD~COLUGLCOLGATI UNI\'ERSl~~--C~RNE~l UNIVERS'ITY [ . ·. ,: . ., ... '· :.Ji.AMILl:PN COtlEGE.;MANHATIAN COLLEGE •• SJ. L-\WREN.CEI.JNlVERSilY .. UNION COLLEGE 1 ,·· .:,;..,,.'\····A~t:·;,:•'< :· ..•. ::: .• ;/. ·~ .. ·. .· ·. · _ : · • . . -----., I I 1. .- Contact':. lY.Iartha Huggins, ext. 6292 or I Bil1 Thoi:nas, ext. 6002 · I iT a-J ~ fPrE ~l :Ps~:o~ ~1-\~A 0 ~)J THE STUDY TERM This, one-semester study program, . on women, techq.ology, and economic. development in Brazil, will consist of four courses: BB.AZILIAN CULTURE, ECONOMICS, POLITICS AND SOCIETY; a survey of Brailian society. · · URBAN PLANNING, Architecture and· Urban Planning in the City of Sao Paulo. Prof. Rosa Grena Klass. WOMEN, TECHNOLOGY, AND DEVELOPMENT IN BRAZIL; Women oin · Brazilian Development. Prof. Martha K. ·. ·Huggins. · . THE PORTUGESE LANGUAGE;. · Associacno Alumni. These four courses will be eqlUll to a total ofl3. semester hours. I U ~ rrD [Elf! <CD ~A[) lU A 1f lE ~CC J rE ~ «: fi fEIT» lU CA u a <CD~ Sum.mer 1989 Student Research Opportunities. A unique opportunity to gain research experience with a faculty mentor and work with students from other colleges and universities at one of the following institutions: ' . . ·, . . ' ... • • • '. ~ : ,. 1, ~ • .;,. !: ~ f • ~ \~ .,:; • Barnard College • Hamilton College • Colgate University • Manhattan College • Cornell University • Saint Lawrence University • Union College ' 1()- WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $2,000.00 STIPEND PLYS $500.00 TRAVEL/HOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN APPLICATION OR 1-'0R FURTHER DETAILS, CONTACT YOUR INSTITUTIONAL REPRESENTATIVE: DEAN WEINER - 370-6233 Ot call CORNELL UNIVERSITY 6.07-255-2710 . . -::·· .: ····~·· . . - . :.;; . BARNA!!.DCOllEGE .. COLGATE UNIVERSITY •• CORNELl UNIVERSITY HAMIL TON COLLEGE..MANHATTAN COLLEGE .. ST.I,AWR£NCE UNIVERStlY •• UNION COLLEGE

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS January 19, 1989 ~&. AR.TS···.·.· &.' ENTERTAINMENT ' '.\ ~~-~ -----~-~-~--~.- ...... ------ .... ----------------------· .. 0.. 'i.lJ 0:: -..) <lZ l:: 0.. (§ ~ fj) UJ 1- cr: ::l• 0 .(.) The Magic of Ether about the advantages and disadvantages of being blind. While :this explanation Qf tile courage and strengths of the blind is · an admirable under.taking for Oliv,e, he is much more successful wnen he allows the audieJlce to see Frankie's suocesses. Fortunately, s,chwab's . problems become a focal point. Lawless' (as Schwab) fantastic timing, nervous gestures, and cutting one-liners (\That sure is an ugly dog .•. do you tie it to a stick and use it to clean ~ 0 :c 0... . windows?\} keep the stoi:y moving and the audience engaged. Rick Lawless in \The Voice of the Pr~irie'' While the saga of Frankie -and Davey is resolved, their By KATIE BOYD Arts .Editor A modest midwestern. farmer stands stiff and silent before a radio microphone. \Tell them a story,\ Leon Schwab (Rick Lawless), the frantic radio , salesman begs; and slowly David Quinn (J.K. Simmons) begins to tell his story. In a fertile, soothing voice, reminiscent of the landscape of the prairie, the acventures of two scared, runaway kids ~ a blind girl and a perpetually· hungry orphan boy - are brought to life on the stage of Albany's Capital Rep. . John Olive's \The Voice of the Prairie\ chronicles the power ef the story and the 'magic of ether'. The spre!ld of radio throughout the United States allowed even those in the 'vastness' of the prairie to feel connected with the rest of the country. A 1920's Garison Keillor (of \Lake Wobegone\ fame), Olive's narrator David Quinn captures the imagination and heart of his audience. They, too, want Frankie and Davey • the two runaways separated so long ago· and now lost in a gigantic country - to be The Secret of \Working Girls\ Success By CAMERON KENNY . ' ~ Tess McGill (Melanie Griffith) is trying to make it up the Wall Street ladder, but she keeps tripping over her Staten Island haircut and overwhelming eye-shadow. Katharine Parker (Sigourney Weaver) is all that Tess wants to be: elegant and clever, domineering and aristocratic. The pair battle over mergers and Harrison Ford in Mike Nichol's new film \Working Girl,\ a warm and entertaining comedy about class and success· on Wall Street. Although the plot of \Working Girl\ is remarkably predictable, its characters and script generally compensate for the lack of surprises. Most of the performances are excellent, and Weaver in particular, is wonderful as the frigid professional who actually suggests to her boyfriend (Ford) that they \merge\. Also excellent is Joan Cusack-(sister to John), who plays Tess's best friend. As the definitive secretary, awash in cosmetics and a Staten Island twang, Cusack is consistently entertaining as Tess's reminder of all that she hopes to leave behind. Despite its charm however, ''Working Girl'' is a liltle thin and it makes some fairly obvious points. For example, the film constantly suggests that those who appear to be the 'superiors' are in fact, the inferiors, for the lower class characters far outshine their 'betters' with ~ respect to honesty, integrity, etc. Also, the filin explores the unforttmate fact that success--or any advancement for that matter--too often hinges on appearance rather than competence. The secretaries for instance, a·re either ostracized, patronized, or in Tess's case, exploited by those who socially outclass them. . 11 Working Girl\ is, in many respects, simply a better version of \The Secret of My Success\: a bright but undervalued aspiring yuppie devises a doo.med plot to advance in the corporate ranks. Yet unlike ;'The Secret of My Success\ \Working Girl\ never gets silly,. and it does try for more depth. It is reunited. Davey and Frankie come to life on stage in flashbacks w.hich follow Quinn's introductions. As each of the cast of three plays several · characters; Davey is played by Lawless. While initially confusing Lawless, Simmons and Danzer (who plays Frankie) successfully create distinct characters. After a captivating first act, the second act starts slowly. Danzer's monologues, while faultlessly executed, drag, as they are almost preachy spiels · confrontation seems mundane, and confirms the conclusion that stories (and past experiences told to an audience are stories) are usually more interesting than the actua'' occurances. Fortunately, the overwhelming majority of \The Voice of the Prairie\ is stories. Funny stories. Sad stories. Stories told beautiful~y and acted suberbly. · \The Voice of the Prairie\ plays until Feb. 5 at the Capital Rep in Albany .. Student rates are available. For information, .call 462-4534. Working Girl unfortunate that while commenting on the unfairness of the system, the film never really questions the value of . rising in this world to begin with. Ford's character, as an example, is in somewhat of a slump, and although he has already 'made it'. he still bas considerable insecurities. Regardless however, \Working Girl\ is a respectable movie and worth taking a look at. B. IDOL WORKSHOP Anyone interested in creative. writing, please come to weekly Idol Workshop 7:30 Wednesday - College Center. A&E Briefs Capital Rep., Albany 462-4534 Tonight thru Feb. 5, 8:00 The Voice of the Prairie Radio Pioneer Days Pleca.lled. Call for tickets and. prices. Ha.lf Moon Cafe, Albany 436-'()329 Sat, 7:00 Folk ,Rock Cohoes Musjc Hall _ Cohoes. 235-7969 Tonight, 8:00 Theda. Bara and the Frontier Rabbi A ;'shameless musical comedy~. Call·for .tick&1s and prices. Dance Planet, Schenectady 456-7861 Fri., Sat., 10:30 Tbe \ and ''Picture This\ Performingoldhits and originals. Before 9:00 is free: o1he!Wise $3.00 cover. Cafe Lena, Saratoga. 583-0022 Fri..Sun. Folk Singer Bill Staines · College Center, Uriicn College Fri.-Sun. 7, 9, 11. Die Hard Wed. 7, 9·, 11 Wish You Were Here. Am.er·ican P~etry· Contest $11,000 • • 1n prtzes. send up to six poems each poem no more than 20 lines to American Poetry . . . ' . AssoctatJon · Dept. CT-22, 250A Potero Street P.O. Box 1803~ Santa Cruz, California 9.5061-1803

CONCORDIENSJS )alluary 19, 1989 Page 17 .. ARTS -& ENTERTAINMENT ·rattrntStJ Taragologist I • . ol'o - B.y J;OlfN .. CEDRIC· · folk song. _ ·~P-.EDERS~N Friday night she was Fri~y night. Hilary Tann . intJ;Qduced . to a s·heeless . audience a remarkabl~ woman. Esther I...amneck is a c:tarin.etist wllo specializes in Jazz and in Eastern European music· fpr which she ilses the taragato, an Hungarian folk instrument similar; to the ·clarinet. Sh.e . . ' .. -. performed for the few Union students who attendetl and for several members o.f.the faculty and community in the first performalice of the W-inter Improvisation Series sponsored by the Arts ·depart;meRt. Ms. Lainneck begM playing ' the clarinet at an early age. At 10 she was playfng · lead clarinet in a jazz band, but at twelve---because her parents didn't like where jazz. was going--her mother sent her to Europe to study the Classical clarinet. Once she finished s.chool, she performed l:hron.ghout Europe. In Hurt gary, during one of her concert tours, she was introduced· to Hungarian folk . music. and to the taragato. Fascinated by this traditional fomi, she .studied it, learned to play the taragato, and now she has incorporated the music into her concerts and albums. She is one of the few people today who can play the taragato, and she has rn~tered tll~_~llfigarian~ '. Love --.;---:-~ By Pam· Street \My One and Only.\ is a simply ;'S'Wonderful\ .\~20's style musieal hosted: by Proctor's., January 12th-14th.· With music by George Gershwin ~d choreography by Tommie Walsh. and Tommie Tune, the energetic cast danced and sang about simple love and the barriers that obstruct it. Abe Reybold plairs the role of Captain Billy · Buch Chandler, who believes tha~ the solution to finding love lies in reforming his character; He hopes the fame gained by being the first man to fly from J_ersey accompanied by Jo~n Rucci, who is a professor at Princeton, a drumme£ who specializes in Eastern music and period instruments~ After their first piece, Lamne_pk spoke a bit about the taragato, Her _ enthusiasm for · the instrument and for the music _ was obvious. She truly loves what. she does, and she was enthusiastic to share what she had discovered.in Hungary. Excited and with complete sincerity, s~~~ played a· few 'iunes; some were traditional Bnngar.ian p;i;eces and. some were written by .Americans imitating the style, including pieces she herself had Written. For the first pieces, Rucci accompanied her on a set of drUmS COthrnon tO jazz bands and on the piano, then he moved ro two drums he learned to play in India. One was made of teak wood and the other, the larger, .of copper. The tops were. made of -three different animal skins to produ·ce · .different tones. Each tone .the ins1nUnent p_roducet:l mimicked a sound of their language so that instead of writing down the songs, they would memorize the pattern of the sounds. After playing a piece on the drums Rucci · continued to describe other instruments he had b;rouglJt _with him. Th.en Lamneck joined him in some improvisation. The sounds of his instruments were varied and foreign to Western music. Theugll they might be confused for primitive sounds, they had a sophisticati()n all of their own. A multitude of sounds could be created from a bow. a stick. and a rock. · After a~ brief intermission, they performed a variation of a at Proctors' to Paris non-stop will win the attention of Edythe Herbert, played by Liz McCarthy. Edythe appears .uninterested because· she is insulated by fame,- glamour and glitter. She desperately wants to escape this attention but cannot because she is \The First Woman Ever to s~wim the English Channel\. Edythe and Billy receive constant advice about what to do and what to be. The most beautiful aspect' of \My On.e and· Only\ was that the two disregard this advice and allow their t;ru.e feelings to lead them to love. They dance. and sing in celebrati<Jn -of this love and the audience couldn't help but want to danc<>r with them. \My One and Only\ magnified the simplicities of life and made all else .appear substalltial. The musical moved my heart in ways that somethil'\g complicated never could. A. mus~-see for anyone with a heart. \My One and Only\ played . at Proct<Jrs Theatre Jan 12-14. Proctors has stu:dent rate tickets for \Beauty and the Beast, ' 1 by Joffrey U Dancers on Jan. 28. ART SHOW JAN. 21-.·27 College- Center Atrium MEETING-- ALL WELC-OME·I No Ex.perience Necessa.ry. Room 409 7:30 College C~nte.r Thurs., Jan. 19 •Art Shoe •Matti·ng •Fund Raiser UNION COLLEGE PHOY.OGRAP:Hv CtUB melody from a traditional Gregorian .chant. During this piece, Lamneck demonstrated her ability 0n the clarinet to reach three tones simultaneously. After a few more pieces of improvisation, which were phenomenal, seemingly rehearsed and memorized works, Ms. Lamneck invited the audience to ask questions and to come examine the instruments. Throughout the night, her enthusiasm .captivated the audience. She was delighted to answer questions and to show her taragato to whoever was interested. Because of her excitement, not to mention her music, and because of the range of instruments which Rucci brought, the evening was a refreshing one. HOROSCOPES BY \A\ CAPRICORN: This week is time to show appreciation for someone who care~ for you, but who you tend to take for granted. Perhaps the answer to your unsatisfying love life is seeing this person in a new light. AQUARIUS: Aquarians are rn for a cozy weekend with the ones they love. Catch up on some needed sleep, a_!!.q spend your evenings renting moveis .and eating at romantic restaurants, away from the hustle and bustle. PISCES: This week you may bump into someone you were once involved with but who no longer goes to Union. Don't feel uncomfortable-- they are just as nervous seeing you. ARIES.: Celibacy must be your middle name this week! Rather than concentrating on the demands of your libido, concentrate on the demands of your professors. TAURUS: This week promises new romance, perhaps generating from a drunken night when you lost your inhibitions. Don't be afraid to be vulnerable. GEMINI: This is a week of great accomplishment as you watch a project you organiz~d get completed. An· Aquarian may play a key role in romance. CANCER: This week those born under the sign of Cancer will have the opportunity to express their passionate nature-with both their bodies and minds. LEO: For Leos this week marks new beginnings. Romantically, you shall spark interest in a new admirer. Acad~mically, your grades. will begin a long tern} upswmg. VIRGO,: This is the perfect week to begin accom- plishing new goals. However, make sure that you don't get caught up in your own excitement and neglect your health or those around you. LIBRA: Libras, this is your week to make decisions! You lo:ve_ your independence, yet you may ·need to clip your WIngs to get what you really want academically as well as socially. S~~RPIO: If you are feeling confined by a relationship, !h•s IS the week to end it. It is not you who are acting Immature-there are many other fish in the sea! SAGITTARIUS: Long distance romances will once again prove profitable. It may be difficult to keep your sex · 1 drive in neutral, but the reward will be worth the wait.

' ' Page 18 CONCORDI£NSIS January 19, 1989 -; ~-~--~··-:- .. ~.·~·-t:.-·.·.· ........................ ·.'· .................... ~ ...................................................... . T _ ARTs· & ENTERTAINMENT ' . IDOL CHATTER For those of you with money to spend the C.C. pretends to be your friend A student Genter with good buys is really a flea market in disguise. If comparative shopping is your technique look no further than the artsy boutiques: A sampling of what Jay Street contains you know, aU .those hard to see remains. Jewelry and perfume, it's all very real you assume? Sweaters from the man, imported from a foreign land. credit cards and overcoats, not to mention ... LPs and posters, browse with apprehension. . ..... So what has. the administration to gain providing peddlers shelter from the rain. Unless these vendors 'are incognito shrinks, serving the hierarchy, they are finks. Approach these vendors if you must, let them know you feel disgust. However, should an item catch your eye, go ahead, it's no shame to bt1y. . Excuses need only to 'be supplied in order for your meal to be justified don't hestiate about the overpriced sweater think twtce about your tuna and cheddar. By Valerie Sarwin Union Cofkt]e CHAJVLB:Ek OkCH/EST:RA. CONCE:RT - Sunt:Uty-, Jan~ 22 3-4pm at nemorial Chapel :Admission is :Free 1he concer-t will feature compositions hy 1U:J.tJckn ,ancl1Jethoven They Might Be Giants. They Might Be' Weird By JOHN S~ MORGAN There is irony in the fact that They Might Be Giants' first · big hit is \Ana Ng\ - the world's smallest woman. There is irony .throughout Lincoln, the second album by the B~;:ooklyn duo of John Flansburgb and John Linell - They Might Be. Giants. The .band's name was chosen for its ironic value; after all, there are only two members of the band - that is small. Perhaps most importantly, the name They Might Be Giants alludes to how the two Johns are willing to poke fun at themselves, to be a parody in·. and of themselves. The sound that emerges on Lincoln and They Might Be ·Giants' initial self-titled album is uniquely quirky. The s<>und is. p(')p oriented, built around a gllitar and an accordion with a mighty dose of sampling and Bill KFauss - the producer. Flansburgh and Linell have fine tuned their sound by literally writing hundreds of so.ngs. The They Might Be Giants catalogue is prolific; the two albums have 19 and 18 songs, and there is a new song on their Dial-A~Song Service (718-.387-6962) daily. With a stage show that includes garish and ridiculously oversized props and their whimsical attitude, They Might Be Giants were made for MTV. In fact, the·music video network carne to realize this shortly after the completion of the \Ana Ng'' video. The band's first single .off of their first album - \Don't Let's Start\ ~ · was a mainstay on MTV's 120 Minutes program and on college radio, but it never got . much further. As far as Lincoln _itself goes, this is noi a great album in the sense of the word (read: my judgmental standards) that was exercised in this space not one term ~go. Bu:t, l must admit that this album -does not easily lend itself to that form of scrutiny. Sure there are some lame songs on Lincoln, but if I were to write 18 record reviews one, maybe even some, would have strained credibility. Even if this is not a great record tbrongh and thr<>ligh, it bats \.300 There aFe six. more than worthwhile songs ~n this platteF, atld six has always seemed to he a magic number in that regard to me. Tfghten Up Vol. 88 by Big Audio Dynamite did not even have six good songs on it, and l 'gave it a middling \thumbs-up.\ \Alia Ng\ may be the darting of MTV and Bar/None Records - and I like it too, but for my money, the meal ulan is a rip- off and ~'Purple Toupee\ is the song· to jump up and down about. \Ana Ng\ is catchy, but the lyric.al content cannot measure up to \Somebody put their fingers in the President's ears/ it wasn't too mu\Ch l~ter they ca!lle out with Johnson's wax\ or \Purple' toupee and gold lame will tum your brain i:lfOUlld.\ - \Lie Still, Little Bottle\ is a balad, of sorts. It is certainly not a love ballad, but it is slow. These odd lyrics contain sobering gems like \Black coffee's not enough for me, I ne.ed a better friend,\ and posts the opinion that \Life is a · placebo masquerading as a · smile.\ \Tbe. World's Address\ is punchy and other titles (\Shoeborn With Teeth,\ \PendtRain\ and \Stand On '. ·' Your Own Head\) inspire a sense of wonderment - at the very least. . This. is an above average record <>n its own merits. Witliin the context of They Might Be Giants, it is a more consistent effort than their first. Despite the merits of \Ana Ng.' Lincoh1 is devoid af a song with a hook like any of those in \Don't Let's Start.\ They Might Be Giants is not for everyone; more than a couple of people \just d(')n't get it.\ I thinlc they are fun.

Page 18 CONCORDJENSIS January 19, 1989 §:r.-' _. ___ A_R_T_s_· _&_EN_··._TE_. R_._TA_·. _IN_M_. · ._E_N_T _____ _ IDOL CHATTER For those of you with money to spend the C.C. pretends to be your friend A student Center with good buys is really a flea market in disguise. If comparative sh()pping is your technique look no further than the artsy boutiques: A sampling of what Jay Street contains you know, all .those hard to see remains. Jewelry and perfume, it's all very real you assume? Sweaters from thE3 man, imported from a foreign land. credit ·cards and o-vercoats, not to mention ... LPs and posters, browse with apprehension. So what has the administration to gain providing peddlers shelter from the rain. Unless these vendors are incognito shrinks, serving the hierarchy, they are finks. Approach these vendors if you must, let them know you feel disgust. However, shoulcl an item catch your eye, go ahead, it's no shame to buy. Excuses need only to·be supplied in order for your meal to be justified don't hestiate about the overpriced sweater think twice about your tuna and cheddar. By Valerie Sarwin . - -. -- ·--·-· ' '• '-''-' - - .. - .. MOHAWK ClNJiMAS. . ACCRJZM!rlU.r .. · rotlils1r ··· .~ ..... ·. , ,. ·. J·~~.{• ·~·· ,•, n-;.~-.. •,:.\• • --( ·'.->. \• ~--~~.:··:· :-.=\•:•• \•:'~:--:~~· :~~ ;-~~;~:;:::::~::::-.-_:~·: (:, }:~\ -\ : , • .. •·• ·• ~: .,,.,. ' ·:,.;; ·(}\f\ '···'-;/••• ;;·.414f:fl<.·'r··• ·<tn!i;:QQ;w•illlN%tW9i3.Q\'·' .:;~ -~~~--.-;1t---:_f:::.- -· -~/--: }.- ·_ .:;t:;-;,: ~~::.::::{:.;;~:{- ::{ ·.··.· :~ \; ·~ .. 5:00'?; ... . --:e. . ··;:---· .. 01L~·S~;:;,; ::.. ••.. . . . . . . . . . . ' ,,> c. ~ \ •• ,. >- J$'~t)f;)''' . , DBIW·DQaW,+·,,· ,,,. , ,., ... >,.·.,).· · N '\'T:Pii1 0 .· ·g. T'f1i.T : , · ~- --_ . _. ~ux., . ' 5:00 7:10. 9:35 Union Cofleqe CHA.n1JE1l O:RCHESTR.A. CONCERT Sunday, Jan. 22 5-4pm at n.emorial Chapel A.timi-ssion is :Free 1he concert wiU feature compositions by 1lcl;~t:!en ancl :Bethoven They Might Be Giants. They Might Be Weird By JOHN S. MORGAN whimsical attitude, They off and \Purple Toupee\ is the Might Be Giants were made for song to jump up and down There is irony in the fact that MTV. In fact, the music video about. \Ana Ng\ is catchy, b111t They Might Be Giants' first network came to realize this the lyrical content canNot big hit is \Ana Ng\ - the shortly after the completion of measure up to \Somebody put world's smallest woman. There the \Ana Ng\ video. The band's their fingers in the President's is irony thrm1ghout Lincoln, first single off of their first ears/ it wasn't too much later the second a1bum by the album - \Don't Let's Start\ - they came out with Johnson's Brooklyn duo of John was a mainstay on MTV's 120 wax\ or \Purple toupee and Flansburgh and John Linell - Minutes program and on gold lame will tum your brain They Might Be Giants. The college radio, but it never got around.\ band's name was chosen for its much further. \Lie Still, Little Bottle\ is a ironic value; after all, there are As far as Lincoln itself balad, of sorts. It is certainly only two members of the band goes, this is not a great album not a love ballad, but it is - that is small. Perhaps most in the sense of the word (read: slow. These odd lyrics contain importantly, the name They my judgmental standards) that sobering gems like \Black Might Be Giants alludes to was exercised in this space not coffee's not enough for me, I how the two Johns are willing one term 4go. But, I must need a better friend,\ and posts to poke fun at themselves, to admit that this album does not the opinion that \Life is a be a parody in·, and of easily lend itself to that form placebo masquerading as a themselves. of scrutiny. Sure there are smile.\ The sound that emerges on some lame songs on Lincoln, \The W<lrld's Address\ is Lincol11 and They Might Be but ifl were to write 18 record punchy and other titles Giants' initial self-titled album reviews one, maybe even (\Shoehorn With Teeth,\ is uniquely quirky. The sound some, would have strained \Pencil Rain,\ and \Stand On is pop oriented, built around a credibility. Even if this is not a Your Own Head\) inspire a guitar and an accordion with a great record through and sense of wonderment - at the mighty dose of sampling and through, it bats \.300.\ There very least. Bill Krauss - the producer. are six. more than worthwhile This is an above average Flansburgh and Linell have songs on this platter, and six. record on its own merits. fine tuned their sound by has always seemed to be a Within the context of They literally writing hundreds of magic number in that regard to Might Be Giants, it is a more songs. 'fhe They Might Be me. Tfghten Up Vol. 88 by consistent effort than their Giants catalogue is prolific; the Big Audio Dynamite did not first. Despite the merits of two albums have 19 and 18 even have six good songs on \Ana Ng,' Lincoln is devoid songs, and there is a new song it, and I gave it a middling of a song with a hook like any on their Dial-A-Song Service \thumbs-up.\ of those in \Don't Let's Start.\ (718-387-6962) daily. \Ana Ng\ may be the darljng They Might Be Giants is not With a stage show that of:MTV and Bar/None Records for everyone; more than a includes garish and ridiculously - and I like it too, but for my couple of people \just don't get oversized props and their money, the meal nlan is a rip- it.\ I think they are fun. .. ••••••••••••••Clip •n save1••••••••••••• .. I THE WRUC NEW 8.97 I I These 8 .. 97 , P9'f:!l~Hful that )NAUC was able to continue I · \bre~khig· the · · wi~nout electricity. . 1 · CoWffloy· duln'kres .. · •· . .. ' \f'(ifiV~tfiltti$ • ·· . ·-rne ·-alf\lt$1'\r<!. ·, a-.; l'.\' s.i'on .... .ry~\:E:z~~~~4.~~~·· ~t\ilEll Warner I: . ;t'>:;,&i! j}l\i .. ·.·i·l !fi.< .. :.\'<>'' . ,_aqt:::r·J~~·rh:,,,· , Eni~ma~ · ·· Siif.Gt, . , R~Ar E,ni'~~~ .. ·.·.·sir.~l -RQJ\1 •• :1 ·a·l\eW1<'1Sfi~atttre:':t~lt~rns-'~·:·aat~·• ·., ,;,,· · - -- · ·.-. - .;~\·~:t·,,e~· -- -· I

- NIGHT ·SKIING! l/2 price ($6) with College ID WILLARD MOUNTAIN Monday~Saturday 6-10 pm Call '692-7337 for more info. - SERVICING REPAIR OVERHAULING MERCEDES 'BENZ • BMW AUDI • V.W. • HONDA :MIKE'S ME:RCE·DES s:ERVICE. lNC. MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (518)·377-2268 (24 HR. TOWING- 374-1067) CONCORDLE.NSIS Janllary 19, 1989 ·wlNTERFEST IS C,OMING! FEBRUARY lOTH & 11TH BE IN PRINT Would yo;t:t.like to have yo~r friends and expeciei):Ces in the 1989 yearbook? Submit your photographs to the Garnet . Yearbook. Terms Abroad people submit picturles ofyour adventures! All pictures can be returned by placing your name and address on the back of the prints. Be a part of history! Submit · your work! 349' ANTHONY STREET SCHENEt:TADY, NY Garnet ;_ ' ~: , March 5th to April 8th, 1989 . ···BERMUDA ·COI41~GE WFE With a little bit of luck, you just might make it through the we~k. Right from th.e start, the party is nonstOp. · Your College Week opens with a. day-lo~g Barbecue Bash at beautiful Elbow Beach- dancing, feasting, swimming and tanning on soft, pink, sun-splashed sands. The beat goes on w.ith spectacular beach parties featuring Bermuda's top rock, steel and calypso bands. Daily lunches. A limbo festival. AJJ.d an outrageous Party Cruise to magnificent Great Sound. Afl compliments of the Bermuda Department {lfTourism. · · ... Add totllat all the things that ma.ke Bermuda, Bermuda. Whirring around our island on a moped. (Do keep left!) Our British ambiance and colourful pubs. Great tennis and golf. Treasure hunting in our shops. Jogging on quiet seaside roads~indudinga 2·k \Fun Run\ from Horseshoe Bay. And the special feeling of being on a tiny, flower -bedecked island, separated from everywhere and everything by'6o0 miles of sea. This springr break: away to an island that's m()re than just sun, sand and surf. Contact your campus 'Il:'avel Representative or navel Agent for more Bermuda College Week details. Redman Sporl & Travel 208 West 260th Street . Riverdale, NY 10471 (212) 796-6646 • (800) 288-2328 • (617) 770-1403 Page 19 S'PS SPONSORED MOYIE Tuesday, January 24 4:30 PM Refreshments will be served AT RM N1f2 in Science & Engineering Bull ding Unisex Hair Design The Ultimate in Family Hair Care Reasonably Priced No Appl:lintment Needed . Mon. to Sat. 9 A.M. to 9·30 P.M Sunday 11 A.M. to5 P.M. Rotterdam Square 2 Campb!JII Road Schenectady, NY 12306 Mon.-Fri.: 7:30·5:30 Saturdays: 9:00-1;00 Am®N Cleaners & Formal Wear SAM J. PAGANO. PRES. 21 Stale Street Schenectady, NY 12305 (518) 374-2727 KELLY SPRINGFIELD EXPLORER 400 ALL SEASON WHITEWALL White Wall. Sin 155/80113 185/10113 185/75114 195/75114 205/75115 215/75115 225/75115 $39.95 $49.95 $50.95 $52.95 $56.95 $59.95 $6195 ~:./\ ...

l I ! I l l I I ! CONCORDIENSIS January 19, 1989 NIGHT SKIING! 1/2 price ($6) with College ID WILLARD MOUNTAIN Monday-Saturday 6-10 pm Call692-7337 for more info. WINTERFESTIS COMING! FEBRUARY lOTH & 11TH ~~--------------------~~~--------~ BE IN PRINT SERVICING REP AIR OVERHAULING MERCEDES BENZ • BMW AUDI • V.W. • HONDA ' . Would you like to have your friends and experiences in the 1989 yearbook? MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE~ IN;C. MICHAEL W. GYDYLO (518) 377-2268 (24 HR. TOWING- 374-1067) 349 ANTHONY STREET SCHENECTADY, NY Submit your photographs to the Garnet Yearbook. Terms Abroad people submit picturles of your adventures! All pictures can be returned by placing your name and address on the back of the prints. Be a part of history! Submit your work! Garnet March 5th to April 8th, 1989 BERMUDA COLLEGE WEE With a little bit of luck, you just might make it through the week. Right from the start, the party is nonstop. Your College Week opens with a day·lo11g Barbecue Bash at beautiful Elbow Beach- dancing, feasting, swimming and tanning on soft, pink, sun-splashed sands. The beat goes on with spectacular beach parties featuring Bermuda's top rock, steel and calypso bands. Daily lunches. A limbo festival. And an outrageous Party Ouise to magnificent Great Sound. All compliments of the Bermuda Department of Tourism Add to that all the things that make Bermuda, Bermuda. Whirring around our island on a moped. (Do keep left!) Our British ambiance and colourful pubs. Great tennis and golf Tre-Jsure hunting in our shops. Jogging on quiet se:Jsidc roads-including a 2-k \Fun Run\ from Horseshoe Bay. And the special feeling ofheing on a tiny, flower-bedecked island, separated from everywhere and everything hy 6oO miles of sea. This spring; break away to an island that's more than just sun, sand and surf. Contact your campus Travel Representative or Travel Agent for mme Bermuda College Week details. Redman Sport & Travel 208 West 260th Street Riverdale, NY lO·Pl (212) 796-6646 • csoo) 288-2328 • (617) ~:o.I-103 Page 19 SPS SPONSORED MOYIE Tuesday, January 24 4:30 PM Refreshments will be served AT RM N112 in Science & Engineering Building Unrsex Hair Des1gn The Ultrmale m Family Ha~r Care Reasonably Prrced No Appointment Neeoed Mon Ia Sat 9 AM to~~ 10 PM Sunday 11 AM to 5 P M Rollerdam Square 2 Camptmll Road Scl1eneclady. NY 1230b Mon -Fn 7.30-5 30 Saturdays 9 .00·1.00 A JEJC!IH\1 Cleaners & Formal Wear SAM J PAGANO. PRES 21 Stale Street Schenectady. NY 12305 (518) 374-2727 KELLY SPRINGFIELD EXPLORER 400 ALL SEASON WHITEWALL White Wall. Sale Size Pria~ 155/80RI3 $39.95 185/80RI3 $49.95 185/75114 $50.95 195/75R14 $52.95 205/75115 $56.95 215/75R15 $59.95 225/75R15 $61.95 15 95 KELLY SPRINGFIELD

. ~ ~ . ' I . ! I ' \ ' l \ \ ') ' ! ·, ! I 'l!' i . . ' I 1-· ·Page 20 SHOULD WE PASS .. ''ENGLISH ONLY'~ LAWS?· Is America best serve,d · with an official .larlguage? · Should schools, govern.men.t· s~rvi~es, etc. be bilin~gual? Come ioin Crosstalk for ~a discussion· o·n this con .. troversial issue~ · . . . -Wednesday, February 1st 8:00pm College Center Atrium . ' ~ . . . 'l; .. ··; '

CONCORJ)l8NSIS January 19, 1989 Page 21 ' · · · · Tutorio.g -Union College C ... ·_L_VB_. -·· ... N._. _E_'Wi_ .. _s_. ___ , i students can be used in the , 'fol'lowing cu:eas at St. John's Merton Tapes • Friday, School: Kindergartenand Math January 20 at\Noon ·an are : Aidesan<iReadlngonaone-to- welcome to britlg a brown bag vne. Pl~a,se ()Ontact Sheila 1unch and lisren to a Merton · · Hennig<W. 386·4353 Tape in CC404B. Monday Night Supper - Januacy 23rd-Will not be held due to conflict with Freshman · Banquet. Suppers will resume ' on January .30th. 'Speaker to be aunounced. Catholic Adult Vid>eo Education Seri.es Tuesdays from·· 4-5 p,m. in Room 204 of the College Center, Sr. Joan will provide • an opportunity 'tor students to .. update and discuss faith issue~ , as together we view this adult : video series.· With the · Apostle's Creed as a guide, this • innovative series ·presents toda-y's major faith issues .and Falk Group ~ AH singers and musicians interested in being :pa,rt of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6-:3() p.m. in the church to rehea:ts:e. Visiting Shut-ins - Any Union student who wishes· ~o visit a shut-in. on a. regular .. basis during these dreary winter month$ .please contact Oerri Borne 372~3381. Photo Club Meeting Thurs. CC203 1/12/89 -No Experience Needed -All Welcome t() Attend -Learn to Develop your Own · Film cohceins in the light of Vatican Second Reformed Church, , · II. · located at the corner of Morris Tuesday, January 24th The Avenue and Union Street is Divine Personality-Part I. seeking ,someo11e to do child- Church UnityOctave·\Building -<:ate in the ch11rch nursery on Comm,unity: One B.ody in Sundays from 10:00 a;m. to Christ'' is the theme- of the 12:00 noon. $10 per Sunday. 1989 Week of ·prayer for Interested·: Tbe Rev. Dr. Christian Unity (Janucu:y 18- Richard J. Tiggelaar.numbers 25). These days of special .· ~e: }74-0112(0) and393-2060 prayer are set aside each year so (H). that Christians the world over =========~==! may~hotheprayerofJesusto . CLASSIFIEDS his ratheJ:: \that all may be •Part- Time Employment · Service Station Attendant Phone 374-9828' one, Father, that the world may believe.\ On Wednesday, ranuary 25th. at 4:30 p.m. in the Mobil Lounge of the :Oollege Center. Catholic and • Order a special handmade . ~rotestant Campus Ministry :stoneware beer mug, wine :Will hold an ecumenical Prayer • goblet, or coffee mug for your .Service to mark ·this annual . Valentine · 'at the Spru~e -?bservance. All are invited. Pottery, 158 Jay Street, 393- , SQll. Call Today. Confirmation-This spring, Bishop Hubbard will administer the Sacrament Of Confirmation in St. John the Evangelist Church. Union students are invited to participate. Any Union student. -\vho has not been Confinned may contact Sr. Joan 404B College Center who will · $range meetings to assist ~tlldents in their preparation. • · Problem of the Week Regis Hairs1ylists Rotterdam Squwe Mall 374-1112- J ' Sale- Oct 31 -·Nov 2 PERSONALS . To Woodard- .· What is the difference betw~n the CC and a Flea Market? : The Mathematics Department is pleased to announce ;o \P.roi:Jiem of the • tlleet •competition for Union Collega ~tudents. Each iss lie of the Concordlensis will cont~in a mathe!llati.cs problem, th.e solution of which wln not inuolue topics fromadualltelf mathem~tics cotJ~ses. Bother, lngenui1y Is the key! Solutions should be submitted til Lois Bing In the Mathematics Department Office betUJeen the hours o1 !!a.m.- 11 a.m. . and 2p.m. - 4p.m., Monday through friday. The first correct solution · submitted will receiue the weelci!J.$11() prize. The name Df t11e winner .. ·. and the names of all others who sullmit correct ~olution:s will . accompany the followiAg week's pr~blem in the ConciOrdiensis. Correct solutions will be posted on tile bu.llelin board outside ,8a'ileg 106. · The Mathematics Department grate11111y acknowledges the support of · IEF In this competition. First problem: let M be the midpoint o.f the side DC of triangle RBC, 11£ld let 0 be any point on the segment Mil. let TQR.be parallel to BC, wilere T lies on AB ilnd R lies Oil RC. let S be the poi.nt OJ\. BC for Which RS is parall~l to AB. Show that the triangles om and liSt llaue the same area. t A CA.MPUS NEWS Flea Market needs a bug zappcr and the CC has the Cabaret Sign - From Sour Milk. · Missy, For lack ·of anytltillg better to say: Sheila and llov-e you! · PDE · Get personal:. Order a · · Lori Zee- personalized handmade Congratson mm11g poopee. stoneware beer, mug or wine · Afterooing pltu~gro for a week · goblet for your Valentine at it must be nice t(). be free. Two Spruce Pottery, 158 Jay St., 393-5011 : Stanley, Potter; North. Richmond, AM PM? Gladys Dear L.oo.is and Remus, Bagerenbager en kage! Carina and I can't wait to see you· in Spring, Love, Pemile Shapiro,· Let my lips embrace you. See you in Spring it: JFK. Love, Annabel F- -Just want you to know that I Love You. Pen-Pen· Amil, Happy Belated Birthday! With Love, Oral Delta Gamma Sisters: Bowling was Great! Anyone need a potato or a quarter? The Pledges 14 Weeks!!! That must be some kind of record! Chui woman, [et me hear yo11 roar'?! Suzanne- Next time you run ~cross the turf, please put ()D :your clothes! Dear Miss and Feotch.., Happy Souvlaki Miss you tons. Hope you'rehaving fun! Love. Kristen and Beck , • 301 Seward, You're all so worHierfully coordinated but a 'little two domesticated. TI!allks for all the fun- Love yow ~pa.Jt:m.ent mate. Lori A~ Keep typing lll!d try not to stress- Love your Jim Dandy Buddy To the SDT Sull<bt)l Clean-Up Crew, You guys are a~N~ome! M()r~ Ammonia?? Leslie- What Volleyball· Chmlpion were you on? Smurf f11oo.~tfi - ~-4:~ .3or:> -'ihur.s. 7- r o: oo Dear Sandy Sober, No 11eed to be a doubting THOMAS!! It'Scott to get better!! There's always Larry the lover boy! ! Love, Sally Sleeparound Danah- Happy 21st Birthday. Don't Worry, Be Happy! Missy To the Lysol Stud: Now that your arm has had time to heal, the. Dynamic Duo offers you another chance to beat our incredible strength and flexibility! -US J;mily- Thanks for the ice cream! We'll have to do it again soon. -Mom P.S. How's Spuds? Denise- The sock is waiting for you! Beware! I'm watching you! -SS Sandy- Thanks for listening, even if I did-get a little crazy. Eileen- Happy B-day! (a little early) Have a good one! -SS Love ya! Kathy Art- Happy Birthday! (Jan. 24th) Have a great day! Kathy Curt: No matter what the score is, you're still the best date I've ever h.ad to a ZB T formal. Welcome back Gamma Phi Betas whowereon term abroad fall tenn. We're glad you're back. G-Pbi-B pledges and sisters, welcome back from break. Hope you all had a good one and are ready for winter term .. Chi Psi thanks for the cocktail party Friday night. CH - Who I am and wllo I emulate: Chilly Willy Wilkinson; with just three days more I'd have just about learned_ . the entite score to Aida; they cover over everything. MK Psycho - Heavy sarcasm,_ the fact is,. I'd like to be under the sea, just a Schen. couple in fasllion hatand glasses, \I'm not going to be ignored ... eee ... eee ... eee Fatal and Unattractive\. Chunky Monkey Three cheers for President George Herbert Walker Bush four years and then four more. You've got, you'ye got it, now it's notf1ing but flowers. ( - . '

I , I I ' 'r '} r \ :I , I, \ .~ Page 22 CONCORDfENSlS Janut)ry 19, 198fJ Olnncnt:oiensie SPOR'TS -i. Wom.en's Basket.all On Three•: Game Winnin.g Streak By KATE ALQUIS'J forwards Wendy Getty and Rcbin \The Pretzel Folder\ The women's baske,tb~ll. R<Jmer who was the leading team is currently on a tl!ree- scorer. . game winning streak with In the game against Smith, victories over Russell Sage, .. the Dutchmen won in overtime Smith College and N()rth witil the help of their ~nacious Adams. Against Russell Sage, defense. Jean Lopafa's strong the team worked cohesively in .offensive contribution at the what Coach Gelhing called\ the beginning of overtime also had best game we have ·played as a a strong .part. Junior guard team.\ In this win, the Lady Wendy ''Air'' Vincentkept the Dutchmen repelled a :possible · team alive with her consistent Sage comeback late ill the sllooting from the line and her second b.alf by maintaining ove1allleadership on the floor. composure and elevating the 'fhe team played especially together throughout the game~· The only three uninjured upperclassmen- seniot Julie Gallo, juniors Gina Prokosch (captain) and Wendy Vincent· combined to provide enough leadership for the eight freshmen on the team. This. youthful team is not lacking in talent, The freshmen ·have adapted well · to college basketb~ and they are an: asset to the team both now and 'in the future. Elgin Rhodes goes up for a sh()1 against St. Lawrence. Article intensity level. Among many well in its victory over North The team's overall record now stands at 5-5,. after a Tuesday night loss in a dose game against Williams. appears;on page 24. key players were freshmen Adams and worked weU SQUASH CRUSHED ! The Union College Squash League team. suffered a very close loss to SUNY at Albany's Purple Team on January 5, at Union College. . There ar.e two {2) SUNY\B'' Teams, Purpl.e and Gold; both are undefeated. Playing one and two for Union College are students Jayson Albert and Dave Stark. Both lost very close matches. Other members of the team were Sandy Vohr, jack Vohr, and Prof. Roy Day. Jack Vohr posted the only win. Those interested in SQUASH AT UNION, please call Sandy Bohr at 377-291 0 L / T AI: CHI CLASS Traditional Chinese · ~ Medical/Physical Exercise TUESDAYS AT 4 PM IN THE EXERCISE ROOM· IN ALUMNI GYM. Tile instructor is Dr. '-Wang Sheng· Qiu from China. COST: 5 sessions for $20--- students \ 5 sessions for $30--- non-students If you are interested please c.ontact: .. LINDA PATRIK-·tN THE PHILOSOPHY , ···~· DEPARTMENT {PHO~E 370-6240) : f ~ >I COURSE DESCRIPTION: ' ' Tal Chi is a systematic medicalfphysical exercis~. Movement is slow ito harmonize·.breathing and thought; it is a kind of me<liation in mo.lion, which results in mental relaxation as well as physical agility. If it is done over a long period of time, it can prevent and treat some chronic diseases such as ulcers, tuberculosis, arthritis, diseases of the spinal column, cardiovascular.diseaset insomnia, headache, nerve apin, and high blood pressure. This exercise is easy to learn, for people of all ages. FULL DAY SKI AREA Killington Monnt Snow · Gore Mountain Ski Windham Magic Mountain Bromley Stratton Sugarbush LOCATION Killington, VT. Mount Snow, Vf.1 Hamlet, NY Windham, NY Luddonderry, Vf. Manchester, VT. Stratton, Vf. Warren, VT. TRAVEL TIME WEEKEND TICKET 3 Hrs. li5 Hrs. 1.5 Hrs. 1.5 Hrs. 2.5 Hrs. ~ White Face Mountain Hunter Lake 'Placid, NY Hnnter, NY Hancock, MA. 2.25 Hrs. 2.25 Hrs. 3.5 Hrs. 2.5 Hrs ·1 Hrs. Jiminey Peak r= Killington Gore Mountain t-..i Magic Mountain Stratton - White Face 1 Hr. TELEPHONE NUMBERS 802-773-1500 Mount Sl1ow 518-251.:2411 Ski Windham 802-824-5566 Bromley 802-297-2200 Sugarbl.lsh 518-946-2223 Hunter 413-458-5771 $34 $34 $28 $32 $32 $32 $35 $33 $28 $31 $? 802-464-3333 518-734-4300 802-824-5522 802-583-2381 518-263-4223 This list was complied by the Student Activities/College Center omce. For more information, co~tact the office. ** Bring your college ID for possible dlscoUDts. '

/ 1989 AthJete. of the ·sPORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ By MARK ZIMMERMAN _ exce~ent ~hance to. slirpass; the Sports Editor goalie recofd of l8 wins m a team thus far. Wehavealot.of .solid llockey .players who are worldng hard, but we wouldn't The Union- C<>llege Hockey · Team is off to a great start tllus far this season witll a record of 8 .. 3. One of the major reasons behind this sue<;ess is due to junior goaltender Ron :K:;.nghom. this week's 'Atblete of the W eelc'. W<llile the entire team bas l)een playing well, Kinghorn bas p.Jtt in $talidDI,J;t- performances ill game after game; This past Saturday at Salem, Ron made 46- saves en -route to 3-1 victory. lte was also the key to Unicn's penalty killing as the Dutchmen turned away all 7 <lf Salem's powetplay oppoJtJJnities~ ~nion is .8..:2 · iii games that Kinghorn has Jlla:yed in and with 13 games remaining on the schedule, Ron has aa .f.-;,_ season. Coach . · had words of. praise for Kinghorn. \There is no question that Ron has been tlte backbone of the . , be where we are if it we~n't for Ron. He's been nothing short of outstanding.\ Union's success under I<inghorn has not been a · surprise to those who follow the team. At the end of last - season, the Dutchmen went 6- 0- t in theit last seveJJ,• games and advanced to the playoffs. K:inghom has a1ready been named ECAC ··Goalie .of .the Week' for the week of December 9, and if be continues to_ play as he has been, it won't be suxprising if he wins it agajn. Congratulations g() out to · Ron Kin:ghorn for his · -outstanding efforts. we wish him, his teammates an:d his coaches continued success for the remainder of the season. 8y GREG GOETZ Georgetown University · basketball coac,h 1 ohn Thompson has begun a protest of the NCAA' recently adopted Proposition 42. He is walking off the court ptior to the start of an undetermined number of · basketball games. The gist of the rule that he so vehemently opposes is that a student- athlete must achieve higher than a700 on the SAT or 15 on the ACT to be eligible to receive an athletic scholarship · from the institution that he or .......... _...,.......,...... _____ ......... ______ ,;..__....._........,.,..,____._..__..,;_. ____ ___. __________ · · she plans to attend. Thomson Track Team Excels at · Colgate Invitational By SHOR'l'CAKE The most common questi<>n that people ask runners is, \WHY?\ Why w.()ul<l anyone_in their tight mind waiit to join a sport thaf makes you ~put y~ur body through pai11 each aad every day and ca11ses yo11 to stay in on most Friday night~ only to get tile. 'h.onor' of running around ill-circles ()n ll track? Well; the allswer to .tb.:is question is simp11.'!.1t is for ·the great feeling tbat cernes fr-Om putting in a performance J:ike the one the men':s .and women's track teams did last Saturday at the Colgate fn\:'itational. · The women's team surprised the competitio11 as they ran, jumped and threw their way to a foutth\place finish. The women, in only their second • • the men were also able to qualify two people for tile. state meet However', they did not just qualify, they did · it with style. the shot last week, decided to qualify this week in tb.e 20 lb. weight with a throw of 10':94m. Meg Parsons ran a quick 400m dash to .spring her way into the state meet with a time of 1:03.4. Although almost overshadowed by the big meet qualifies, there were several impressive finishes that fell just .short of qualifying. Liz Dobbs ran a tough 55m hurdles against good competition to finish with a time of 10.2. Meg Parsons, in her second but not l<!$t event of the day, placed sixth overall in the 800m run wiih a time of 2:37.4. Last, but not least, in the most exciting and promising part of the whole meet, the two women's relays~ the 4X400m and the 4X800m, both containing people who had never run those distances before, excelled with their new- found talent. In the 4X400m relay, the team of Parsons, Thomas, Kathy Lawliss and Dobbs ran tough splits as they finished with a time of 4:26.9. In the 4X800m relay, the team of Sandy Anselment, Denise McMillian, Poor. and Lynne Erdman pulled together and ran a 10:25.8. The whole meet showed the depth this small but strong team contains. As the season progresses; they are going to be tough to beat. second, but not last event of the day, ran a 1:09,7 in a competitive 500m field. Cliff Genge lookes strong as he hurled the shot 12.61m. In the men's 4X400m relay, tb.e team of Tom Firsbie, Will Allen, Rich Zembek,and Hayes, ran an impressive 3:37.J. In the last event of the day, Simkins, Bob Lindyberg, Mike Martinez and Hans Schwartz all ran tough splits to end the day strong. In . addition to these outstanding performances, the men were also able to qualify two people for the State m~et. However, they did not just qualify; they did it with style. Jim Sweet threw the shot-put an impressive 13.74rn to surpass his qualifying mark~ Steve Hayes, in .an e~citing and close race, sprinted a 52.2 400m to also qualify for the State meet. Next weekend, the women's and men's track teams are hosting a horne track meet. Let's show the team our support and go wactb them run. Remember. \If you can't be an athlete, be an athletic supporter!\ Hoopsters Streak •.. Continued from page 24 this young and talented basketball team co11ld go places. Their next home game is against LeMoyne md will begin at 8:00 at the Memorial Field House. Any intensity fans. could add to the team's effort will surely be appreciated. believes that the new rule · . discriminates against minority and disadvantaged students, because the tests themselves do. It is generally thought that there is an element of cultural bias in these standard college entrance exains. Anothe.r consideration against the relevance of these tests is that many people simply do not take standardized tests well. Here at Ullion, the administration realized that these tests are not a true indicator of a student's potential to achieve on the college level, and has abandoned using. these tests as a determining factor in admitting students. While Union is not a Division I or II institution which can give athletic scholarships, many of the student-athletes who attend are able to only because of financial aid, And frankly, there have been some student- athletes at Union who would Skaters • Continued from page 24 into the open net. -John O;Neill tied the game seven minutes later when he picked up a loose puck at the Union blue line and broke in alone on :Kinghorn. O'Neill snapped the puck past him from about 20 feet out for a 1- 1 game. Less then two minutes later, however, D'Orio thrilled much pf the bipartisan crowd when he put the Dutchmen back in front to stay. D'Orio took passes from Nick Baratoff and Tim Cregan, walked into .the slot and wristed a shot high past Hurley. But the prettiest goal of the night came in the second period on the power-play. Terry Campbell gathered the puck in his own end and wheeled through center ice, eluding a Salem forward. He then darted between the defensemen and slid the puck past Hurley for • Page :t3 SPORTS not have been accepted if it were not for their athletic abilities. The NCAA wants to insure that student-athletes are not admitted solely for their at.bletic abilities, and that their academic needs are not neglected. So they passeci' Proposition 42~ which has the same determining test scores, and if a student-athlete scores below these numbers, then tb.ey lose eligibility for their freshman year. The intent behind this rule is good, it makes sure that the \questionable\ student-athlete has a chance to adjust to tbe college learning environment. But if the NCAA really wants t<> address this issue, then they should remove freshman from competition. Under the guise of improving a student-athlete's education, by providing the impetus for them to work at their grades, the _NCAA b.as also overlooked the impact of this rule on other students .. Needy student-athletes will get financial aid, at the expense of other needy students. The NCAA has forgotten that student-athletes are students: first, and has continually based its academic decisions on. monetary concerns. Proposition 42 seriously e11dangers any opportunity that a \dumb jock\ might have t() get an education that their · athletic ability makes possible. • his second goal of the night. Said Delventhal, \The goals were nice, but Terry played an excellent game at both ends of the ice.\ Saturday's game at Geneseo is a 7:30 start, Sunday's at Canisius a 2:00 start. 8()th games can be heard on WRUC &9.7 FM. Union 2 1 o- 3 Salem St 1 0 o- 1 FIRST PERIOD-1, Union, Campbell {GotJid, Whitney) 10:12 (pp\. 2, SSC, O'Neill (unassisted), 17:23. 3, Unhn, D~Orio (Baratoff, Cregan) 19:19. Penalties- Goguen, Union (trippin{l) 2:48; Lescinskas, SSC (interference) 4:27: McKinley, SSC (hooking)'8:56. SECOND. PERIOD- 4, Uniotl, Campbelll (Lucey), 15:38 (pp). Penaltie~­ Robertson, Umon (charging), 4:22; Wll:itney, Union (trippmg), 4:57: Sedergren, Union (roughingJ, 14:00; W!ll'e, SSC (roughing),14:00; Vlachos, SSC {hooking} 14:30; MacAdams, SS<: (interference), 18:45; McKinley, SSC ('hittin!l from behind), 19:07. THlRD PERIOO- None. Penalties- Clifford; Union (trippif)Q), 2;44; Sedergren, Union (hookmg), 7:2:0; . ~cody, Union. (slashing), 10:36: l<lnghorn, Union, served by Moo<i)' (delay ofgame). 17:15. Shots on goal- Union 9-8·6 23, Salem 13-13·21- 47_. Power-play opportunities- Union 2 of 5;. Salem 0 of 7. meet of the season, had four poeple qualify f{)r. the state meet and three q11alifiers for the ECAC meet, both very important eve.nts. Terry Thomas, in her first competition of the seas()n, qualified for beth states and ECAC's in the high jtitnp .when she cleared l.55m. Teny also came back ro qualify for states in the 200m <lash with. a time of 28.4. R.:ika. Poor, who qualified. for State:S last week in the 400m dasb,. wasn't far behind Terry as she made it into states with a. time of 28.1-. Stephanie _Woodatd in her fn-st competition of tlie seaso~so, hurled th.e shot•J)nt 10.95m as . she also qualified f()r ECAC's. 1\.lex Goldschmidt, having ah;e.ady qpatified f<>r ECAC's in. The men looked. impresssive as they jumped, ran, and threw theit way into many scoring p<>sitions 8o that, by the end of the meet, they found themselves to be in fourth place. In the high jump, ~hip Silver cleared the L85m mark in his first CoQlpetition this sea_son. Later on, he also ran a 8.3 second 55rn hurdle race to fmish off his day. . · Jeff Simkins alt ran the 5Sm hurdles but ~Vas just a step ahead as he bit the 8.2 second mark. Jeff;, in ·his SUPPORT UNION. SPORTS

' ~· ' \ . .:. · .. ' I, • Paul Brindle battles two St .. Lawrence players for the ball. Union won 94q89 in overtime. Goalie A on Kinghorn has· backed Unio.n to victo.ries in 6 of the last 7 games. · · · · · · J~nuary 19, 1989 Dutchmen Hoopsters Off to a Streaky Start · By SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Editor Expectations for this year's men's basketball team were not high. Even with the leadership of starting seniors Tom Beck, Joe Romer and Steve DeBalso, last year's team was not able to produce a winning record. At 12-13, they finishe<l with their first sub- .500 record in nine years. Looking ahead to this year, the team suffered another loss when Dylan Kelley died last October. Suddenly the Dutchmen Hoopsters found themselves heading into the 1988-89 campaign with the weighty task of filling the shoes of, four productive starters. But with senior Doug Gregory leading the way, Elgin Rhodes, Paul Brindle, Jerry Brescia and Dave Sussman have stepped in to make this year's team an exciting one. Heading into two tough games against Albany and Binghamton this week, streaky play produced a 5-4 record. Things looked pretty bleak at the start of the season when the Dutchmen finished fourth in the 1ath Capital District Tournament and starting guards Brindle and Brescia shot a combi11ed 5 for 31 in the two losses. But the team rebounded by winning their next three games. Against Hobart, the Dutchmen rallied from a 1 5- point deficit to win, 72-69, and in the following game, showed their scoring · potential by beating Vassar, I 06-92. Against Plattsburgh. they used a balanced attack led by freshman Brindle's 26 points to lffiprovc their record to 3-2. January 6-7, the Union Invitational Tournament was held at the Memorial Field House .. With talented teams from Colby College, Middlebury College and Cath.olic University as the competition, the Dutchmen were pleased with ·their second place finish. In the first game against Middlebury, Union came out' strong in the first half. Doug Gregory played flawlessly. shooting a perfect 6 for 6 from the field and 3 for 3 from the line for 15 points. Middlebury came out stronger in the second half but Union countered with a more balanced attack. Gregory 'finished with 26 points and 9 rebounds and Brescia and Brindle each added 11 as the Dutchmen held on, 77-67. In the final game against Catholic _D., the team suffered when Elgin Rhodes, at that point the team leader in both scoring and rebouding, went down early with an ankle injury. That put more pressure on Gregory who was doubled up as the only established scoring threat inside. He responded by playing a superb game, finishing with 24 points and 8 rebounds, and Mike Feeney and Alex Nestor came in to pick up some of the slack created when Rhodes left the game. Unfortunately, it was not enough. Led by Kevin Boddie and Ken Wills, who were selected to the All-Tournament team with Gregory at the game's conclusion, the Cardinals won easily, 81-67. Against Williams on the lOth, the Dutchmen fell apart against a strong Ephmen team. Despite another strong effort by Gregory, the Dutchmen committed 21 turnovers and lost by .seventeen, 80-63. Finally, against St. Lawrence last Saturday, the Dutchmen came away with an ugly overtime win, 94-89. Early on, it looked as though the game would be a breeze as the Dutchmen jumped out to a 23-9 lead. But the Union offense began to fizzle at that point, turning the ball over several times and allowing the St. Lawrence offense to crawl back into the game. The Dutchmen led by only two at the half, 41-39. After coming out strong and taking an 8-point lead early in the second half, the Union offense again fell apar.~. St. -Lawrence went ahead, 79-74. with 1: 11 left in the game, and only a heroic last second bucket by Gregory sent the game into overtime. When it was all over, Union had won, but with 26 turnovers and several blown leads, the win was less than convincing. Heading into their final 14 games of the season, the Dutchmen Hoopsters have shown that they have the potential to play some inspired basketball, but hav~ at times . ' had trouble maintaining their intensity. Coach Bill Scanlon agrees. \At this point, the thing hurting us more than an~thing else,\ he says, \is turnovers. Right now, we are an impatient team. In order to reach our full potential, we need to concentrate on our ball handing and show more patience both offensively and defensively.\ This week's games against Albany and Binghamton will certainly call for an elevated level of intensity, but Scanlon remains optimistic about the team's chances. \There have been 6 to 8 minutes in each game where I have been very, very plea8ed,\ he says. If the Dutchmen can increase · that ·number to about 12-14, Continued on page 23 Skating Dutchmen Defeat Salem State: Kinghorn Stars By ANDREW SEEWALD Junior goaltender Ron Kinghorn made 46 sav.es, incuding 21 in the third period. as the Skating Dutchmen be1d off Salem State, 3-1, Saturday night at Richard H. Rcckett Arena~ Terry Campbell, the sophomo:te center and the team's leading scorer, collected his second two goal .effort of the week. Freshman forward Chris D'Orio, playing before a large number of fans from his hometown of nearby Marblehead, scored Union's other goal. The Dutchmen improved their record to 6-3 for the season. Union defeated.North Adams, 6-2, on January 10 at · Achilles Rink. The team will enjoy having the week off before facing games at Gen'<seo and Canisius this weekend. The game at Salem marked the start of a stretch where the Dutchmen play 9 of their final 14 games of the regular season on the road, including 5 of their last 6. If Kinghorn continues to play as he did against Salem, the season will not end there. Asked whether the performance was' his best, Kinghom said, \The important thing is that we won.\ He preferred to talk about his own. performance in the context .of the team. \I hope I can play that well in our last [playoff] game.\ he said. Coach Bruce Delventhal . in his first season with Uni~n, called Kinghorn's perfOmiance \ - ..... :. ' .. ,as good a goalie pe:rformance as I've ever seen. Evep niore impressive was the way he hung in there during the flurries.\ Some of . the flurries of pressure were the resuit of. a succession of penalties against the Dutchmen in the third period. \I thought our-specialty units were the difference in the game,\ said Delventhal. Union converted on two of five power-plays and killed all seven short-handed situations. It was·the power-play that opened the scoring halfway through the first period. Junior Dan Gould drew the defense toward him and then passed to Campbell, who was parked .in front of the Salem goal. Salem goalie John Hurley had no chance as Campl)ell slammed it Continued on page 23

~ ' t 0 5 :r: 0.. w ::::! u.. ?~ ., Paul BriJ:'Idle battles two St. Lawr:ence Union won 94-89 in ()Vertime .. players for the ball. Goalie Ron ·Kinghorn has backed Union to victories in 6 of the last 7 games. J~nuary 19, 1989 Dutchmen Hoopsters Off to a Streaky Start · Skating Dutchmen Defeat Salem State: Kinghorn Stars By SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Edit()r Expectations for this year's men's basketball team were not high. Even with ttJe leadership of starting seniors Tom Beck. J,oe Romer a11d Steve DeBalso, last year's team. was not able to produce a winning record. At 12-13, tlley finished with their first sub- .500 record in nine years. Looking ahead to this year, tile team suffered another lo:ss when Dylan Kelley died ll.lst October. Suddenly the Dutchmen Hoopsters fo11r1d themselves heading into tlle 1988-89 campaign with tlle weighty task of filling fhe shoes of four producti-ve starters. But with senior Doug Gregory leading the way, E.lgiil Rhodes, Paul Brindle, J err)l Brescia and Dave Suss111 a11 have stepped in to make tbis year's team an exciting <lne. Heading into two tough gaJTI(.'!S against Albany a11d Binghamton this week, streEtky play produced a 5-4 record. Things looked pretty b lec~k at the start of the season when the Dutchmen finished fourtli in the 28th Capital District Tournament and starting guards Brindle and Brescia shot a combined 5 for 31 in the tv;o losses. But the team rebounded by winning their next three games. Against Hobart, the Dutchmen rallied from a 15· point deficit to win, 72-69., and in the following game, shawed their scoring potential by beating Vassar, 106-92. Against Plattsburgh, they used a balanced attack led b-y freshman Brindle's 26 points to improve their record to 3-2.. January 6-7, the Union Invitational Tournament was held at the Memorial Field House. With talented tei:lms from Colby Coll~ge, Middlebury College and Catholic University as the competition, the Dutchfllen were pleased with their sec<>nd place finish. In the first game ag;a:illst Middlebury, Union carne ()Uf strong in the flrst half. Doug Gregory played flawlessly, shooting a perfect 6 for 6 from the field and 3 for 3 from the line for 15 points. Middlebury came out stronger in the second half but Union countered with a more balanced attack. Gregory 'finished with 20 points and 9 rebounds and Brescia and Brindle each added I 1 as the Dutchmen held on, 77-67. In the final game against Catholic U., the team suffered when Elgin Rhodes, at that point the team leader in both scoring and rebouding, went down early with an ankle injury. That put more pressure on Gregory who was doubled up as the only established scoring threat inside. He responded by playing a superb game, finishing with 24 points and 8 rebounds, and Mike Feeney and Alex Nestor came in to pick up some of the slack created when Rhodes left the game. Unfortunately, it was not enough. Led by Kevin Boddie and Ken Wills, who were selected to the All-Tournament team with Gregory at the game's conclusion, the Cardinals won easily, 81-67. Against Williams on the lOth, the Dutchmen fell apart against a strong Ephmen team. Despite another strong effort by Gregory, the Dutchmen committed 21 turnovers and lost by seventeen, 80-63. Finally, against St. Lawrence last Saturday, the Dutchmen came away with an ugly overtime win, 94-89. Early on, it looked as though the game would be a breeze as the Dutchmen jumped out to a 23-9 lead. But the Union offense began to fizzle at that point, turning the ball over several times and allowing the St. Lawrence offense to crawl back into the game. The Dutchmen led by only two at the half, 41-39. After coming out strong and taking an 8-point lead early in the second half, the Union offense again fell apart. St. Lawrence went ahead, 79-74, with I: 11 left in the game. and only a heroic last second bucket by Gregory sent the game into overtime. When it was all over, Union had won, but with 26 turnovers and several blown leads, the win was less than convincing. Heading into their final 14 games of the season, the Dutchmen Hoopsters have shown that they have the potential to play some inspired basketball, but have at times had trouble maintaining their intensity. Coach Bill Scanlon agrees. \At this point. the thing hurting us more than anything else,\ he says, \is turnovers. Right now, we are an impatient team. In order to reach our full potential, we need to concentrate on our ball handing and show more patience both offensively and defensively.\ This week's games against Albany and Binghamton will certainly call for an elevated level of intensity, but Scanlon remains optimistic about the team's chances. \There have been 6 to 8 minutes in each game where I have been very, very pleased,\ he says. If the Dutchmen can increase that number to about 12-14, Continued age 23 By ANDREW SEEWALD Junior goaltender Ron Kinghorn made 46 saves, incuding 21 in the third period, as the Skating Dutchmen held off Salem State, 3- I, Saturday night at Richard H. Rockett Arena. Terry Campbell, the sophomore center and the team's leading scorer, collected his second two goal effort of the week. Freshman forward Chris D'Orio, playing before a large number of fans from his hometown of nearby Marblehead, scored Union's other goal. The Dutchmen improved their record to 6-3 for the season. Union defeated North Adams. 6-2, on January 10 at Achilles Rink. The team will enjoy having the week off before facing games at Geneseo and Canisius this weekend. The game at Salem marked the start of a stretch where the Dutchmen play 9 of their final 14 games of the regular seaso11 on the road, including 5 of their last 6. If Kinghorn continues to play as he did against Salem, the season will not end there. Asked whether the performance was his best, Kingb()rn said, \The important thin~ is that we won.\ He preferred to talk about his own perfoiTllance in the context of the team. \I hope I can play that well in our last [playoff] game,\ lle said. Coach Bruce Delventhal, in his first season witll Union, called IGnghorn's petfo-rmance, \ ... as good a goalie performance as I've ever seen. Even more impressive was the way he hung in there during the flurries.\ Some of the flurries of pressure were the result of a succession of penaltie&. against the Dutchmen in the third period. \I thought our s.pecialty units were the differe11ce in the game,\ said Delventltal. Union converted on two of five power-plays and killed all seven short-handed situations. It was the power-play that opened the scoring halfway through the first period. Junior Dan Gould drew the defense toward him and then Jlassed to Campbell, who was parked in front of the Salem goal. Salem goalie John Hurley had no chance as Campbell s.lamrned it Continued on .page 23 ·-, ::· ~· . ·'-· -: ...... ...; ... · ,~- ~: :-.,_:· .,,_. -· On.w:·--·, '{., -:~~--=::·;,._ .. t·-·c·-:,:-. _ :I/1J*fl·-·- ----- -·- -- . M~n~~ ~aaJ;~b·· a···:···:~·~ oM ti'·r.~\.~:a·'m' ·t='Fn·.:h····.·_·;u.·· !~d.:· ~yyl•·~an·t,~~_1\!~h· . ,, . , ,: /'····. ·. ·····\ .. ,. , .. , . '!:iii ;;:II mlg\\\'~l •• GU '\\ • ·~u v . · '\ , · a:®.G ~r:hffit'\ JV Basketball at Binghamton a:OO p.m. Women's Basketball at Russell Sage Cap. District T<>umey Saturda,y, Jan. 21st · Hockey at Geneseo Women's Basketball at Russell Sage JV Bask:etball at APt Men~sswimming at Hartwicl< Women's SWimming at Hartwick , Men~s & Women's Track vs William & tlamilt.on Sunday, Jan. 22nd · Hockey at Canisius JV Hockey vs. Phil. Little Hyers Women's Basketball at Russell Sage Tuesday, Jan. 24th ·· W.e·d'rtll;liRJj.·;a.p::\lltJ!l'·'·· .. M'fln~srD~askatball·,vs.·JbeMl>Vne ;-'' 7:30 Cap. District Tourney 2:00 2:00 2:00 i. :00 2.:00 1 :00 Cap. District Tourney l l '

V l C XVIli No. 10 . 0.. . . ' Professor Martha Huggins. coordinator of new Brazit Term Abroad Union ~Sets Trend With New Term Abro.ad To B·razil By EZBA SHERMAN Professor Martha Huggins ·Of the Depa,n:m~nt of Sociology and Anthropology and Professor Bill Thomas. of the Terms Abroad Office are · offering 12 students the unprecedente-d and one-time ch~mce to study at the Instituito de Estudos Econoinic-os, Sociais, e Politicos (IDESl>) in · Sao Paulo, Brazil next fall term. This term abroad, focusing on \Women Economic Development, and Technology in Brazil,\ may be one of the ()nly .ones like it ill the United States which focuses on tl1e contributions of women to Brazilian developme-nt and urban planning. T\he subcommittee consists of Professor Brad Lewis, Prof.essor Gary· Reich and Keith Bemis., '90, and John Meier. '91. It should be understood that this term is in. no way limited to Latin American or Women's Studies m.~jors. On the contrary, it is designed to attract ·a cl.iverse group of students with varying interests. Professor Huggins says \the tenn abroad should reflect the sp.irit of Union,. which is a college· combining. liberal arts, engineering, an:d the sciences. if In addition, up to half of the 12 students accepted will be from colleges other tilan J]nion. A letter has been sent \to elite engineering schools and universities that have urban planning programs and schools which have prestigious women's studies programs,\ detailing the Brazil term. To ensure that the term appeals to diverse interests, four very different courses will be taught in the firSt eight weeks at IDESP: T h e Portuguese Language; Brazilian Culture, Economics, Politics and Society ........ the latter bringing together pfofessors- with · expertise in political science and music, among other areas; Urban· Plaunill·g, which will \be taught by an architect and will emphasize urban, regional, and environmental ~ planning with a strong focus · on the design components of urban planning\; and Women, T e c h n o lo g y ., a n d Development in Brazil, taught by· Professor Huggins. While taking these courses, · · equaling a total .of 13 semester hOurs, students will stay with · families in Sao Paulo. After the eight-week term, the group ·will spend the last two weeks ·on a field tour to Salvador in · Bahia, Ceara's sertao, and Menaus in Amazonas. During this time students will observe women working in manufacturing, agriculture, and high tech. electronics industries and attend lectures dealing with each area. Union will be providing free of charge, a Brazil air pass for each Continued on page 4 1877 Schenectady, New York January 26, 1989 First Session of Gel-Time He·arings Held One Part Of Multi.-1 niti:ative Heview Of Scheduling System By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-in\Chief The Academic Affairs Council subcommittee on Gel- Time held open hearings this Tuesday in Social Sciences. The hour and a half long session started at 2:30 p.m. and . saw two members of the college community offer comments on Union's academic scheduling syst~Jn.. .Another session will be b.eJ.d this · afternoun· .at 2:30 p.m. in SS105. . The hearings are scheduled as part of a multi-initiative review · of Get.:Time for a report commissioned by the AAC. The report is exp~cted to be completed by the second week in February and will be presented to the faculty meeting later this term. The installation of Gel-Time at Union came 11nder the stipulation that the. faculty ' would review the merits of the system before the end of this winter term. Strong arguments concerning Gel-Time have been brought up by both\ advocates and opponents. Many vtere outlined at the hearing (comments made at the hearings will be summarized in the subcommittee's re])Ort). The Gel-Tim.e calendar questionnaire mass-mailed to students last Thursday have not been entirely ·processed as of yet •. and results will also be discussed in the AAC report. Further experiments with academic scheduling were discussed at the session. \Flex- time,'' although still 1n preliminary stage.s of development, has been offered by Professor Alan Taylor of the Mathematics Department. This scheduling system is said to take into consideration the particular needs of the Mathematics a11d Modern Languag~sdcp~cnts. Students, faculty, and staff · are encouraged to attend the · second session if they wish to comment on Gel· Time, 'pre- Gel-Time,' or any alternative scheduling systems. Expansion Gives New.Life ToWRUC By JENNI-FER HOLMES Many aspects of the WRUC radio station have changed since its departure from the Old Chapel to the fourth floor of the College Center. Talking to Bruce Pennypacker, who is technical manager of WRUC, it seemed that size is the most apparent modification that has occurred at the station. The studio in Old Chapel was the size of the station's present which holds one h undrcd CDs and averts those V~hG borrow but do not return. Although-WRUC has made impressive progre~s relating to technical aspects o:fthe station, minor problems cio ~x ist and further innovation~ arc needed. Better utilizaticnn of the newsroom,and more c~pansion ·are both possibilities. Currently, the newsroom is employed for talk shows and newscasts. In acldition, the WRUO.'s Darren Binder and Paummi Header. record library. In addition, the station would like tl> wire lines station now has a main studio, to .the hockey rink, the a prodl:lction studio, and a news fieldhouse and tile Dutch studio. Its library holds fifteen Hollow in order tl> broadcast thousand records. Previously, directly from tile studio. half the records were retained in Currently, with 011e lmndred storage due the lack of space in watts, WRUC can be beard in the Old Chapel. Albany, but in the future The station has acquired three WRUC will strive to expand new turntables and a brand new their wattage to 1000 watts. To telephone. This telephone attain this goal, three to four helps ion the air calls' for game years of paperworlc and a great and talk shows and enables two deal of money will be I is ten e r s to talk necessary. Accordi!lg too Bruce, simultaneously. WRUC has . many technicians a11d disc also purchased a new aniennae. jockeys from ot!Jcr stations At the Olq Chapel during the have commented that WRUC . winter, ice would form on the is one of the best college antennae causing a blowout. studios that they leave seen. Unlike the antennae on Old Ideas for change arc constantly Chapel, this one prevents ice being discussed. So in the from forming. The station words of Bruce, \who knows recently bought a 'jukt:box.' what will happen n.ex.t?\ Cf) ::::! <( ::; ....J ~ (/) a: :r: () fii 0 b :r: a. PHOTO OF THE WEEK: Hamilton goalie Guy Hebert escapes th.e dangers of orange throwing Union fans. For the fourth year the frUit has accompanied the rivalry between the two teams.

Founded .::C·onege 1877 Vol. ex-viii, No. 1 o ~k ~'9B' Professor Martha Huggins, coordinator of new Brazil Term Abroad Union Sets Trend With New Term Abroad To Brazil By EZRA SHERMAN Professor Martha Huggins of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology and Professor Bill Thomas of the Terms Abroad Office are offering 12 students the unprecedented and one-time chance to study at the Instituito de Estudos Economicos, Sociais, e Politicos (IDESP) in Sao Paulo, Brazil next fall term. Tbis term abroad, focusing on \Women Economic Development, and Technology in Brazil,\ may be one of the only ones like it in the United States which focuses on the contributions of women to Brazilian development and urban planning. 1'he subcommittee consists ef Professor Brad Lewis, Professor Gary Reich and Keith Bemis, '90, and John Meier, '91. It should be understood that this term is in no way limited to Latin American or Women's Studies majors. On the contrary, it is designed to attract a diverse group of Israel: An Investigation -:11_'_ ••. _ •.. •. : >' : ,\:\ -~--' ' . :tr ' ·- ·:·.:- .. :: • :/·\' ·HOte't·ft!l·pes:t·w .. ,:.:;; - :r:ne ·rru.tlf·· - . -:-·' :- __ -: '•' '~. _.,. a~,vealed . ;.p~ ''J. . ·····~·:»·-' ';.,-. ' students with varying interests. Professor Huggins says \the term abroad should reflect the spirit of Union, which is a college combining liberal arts, engineering, and the sciences.\ In addition, up to half of the 12 students accepted will be from colleges other than Union. A letter has been sent \to elite engineering schools and universities that have urban planning programs and schools which have prestigious women's studies programs,\ detailing the Brazil term. To ensure that the term appeals to diverse interests, four very different courses will be taught in the firsl eight weeks at IDESP: The Portuguese Language; Brazilian Culture, Economics, Politics and Society- the latter bringing together professors with expertise in political science and music, among other areas; Urban Planning, which will \be taught by an architect and will emphasize urban, regional, and environmental planning with a strong focus on the design components of urban planning\; and Women, Technology, and Development in Brazil, taught by Professor Huggins. While taking these courses, equaling a total of 13 semester hours, students will stay with families in Sao Paulo. After the eight-week term, the group will spend the last two weeks on a field tour to Salvador in Bahia, Ceara's sertao, and Menaus in Amazonas. During this time students will observe women working in manufacturing, agriculture, and high tech. electronics industries and attend lectures dealing with each area. Union will be providing free of charge, a Brazil air pass for each Continued on page 4 Sch~enectady, New York January 26, 1989 First Session of Gel-Time Hearings Held One Part Of Multi-Initiative Review Of Scheduling System 13:y CHRISTINE HONG Editor-in-Chief The Academic Affairs C<JUncil subcommittee on Gel- Time held open hearings this Tuesday in Social Sciences. The hour and a half long session started at 2:30p.m. and saw two members of the college community offer comments on Union's academic scileduling system. Another session will be held this afternoon. at 2:30 p.m. in SS105. The hearings are scheduled as part of a multi-initiative review of Gel- Time for a report commissioned by the AAC. The report is expected to be completed by the second week in February and will be presented to the faculty meeting later this term. The installation of Gel-Time at Union came under the stipulation that the faculty would review the merits of the system before the end of this · winter term. Strong arguments concerning Gel- Time have been brought up by both advocates and opponents. Many were outlined at the hearing (comments made at the hearings will be summarized in the subcommittee's report). The Gel- Time calendar questionnaire mass-mailed to sludents last Thursday have not been entirely processed as of yet, and results will also be discussed in the AAC rcpon. Further experiments with academic scheduling were discussed at the session. \Flex- time,\ although still in preliminary stages of development, has been offered by Professor Alan Taylor of the Mathematics Department. This scheduling system is said to take into consideration the particular needs of the Mathematics and Modern Languagesdepansnents . Students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to attend the second session if they wish to comment on Gel-Time, 'pre- Gel-Time,' or any alternative scheduling systems. Expansion Gives New.Life ToWRUC By JENNIFER HOLMES Many aspects of the WRUC radio station have changed since its departure from the Old Chapel to the fourth floor of the College Center. Talking to Bruce Pennypacker, who is technical manager of WRUC, it seemed that size is the most apparent modification that has occurred at the station. The studio in Old Chapel was the size of the station's present which holds one hundred CDs and averts those who borrow but do not return. Although WRUC has made impressive progress relating to technical aspects of the station, minor problems do exist and further innovations ar~ needed. Better utilization of the newsroom and more expansion arc both possibilities. Currently, the newsroom is employed for talk shows and newscasts. In addition, the WRUC's Darren Binder and Paummi Heeder. record library. In addition, the station now has a main studio, a production studio, and a news studio. Its library holds fifteen thousand records. Previously, half the records were retained in storage due the lack of space in the Old Chapel. The station has acquired three new turntables and a brand new telephone. This telephone helps 'on the air calls' for game and talk shows and enables two listeners to talk simultaneously. WRUC has also purchased a new antennae. At the Old Chapel during the winter, ice would form on the antennae causing a blowout. Unlike the antennae on Old Chapel, this one prevents icc from forming. The station recently bought a 'juk<:,box' station would like to wire lines to the hockey rink, the fieldhouse and the Dutch Hollow in order to broadcast directly from the studio. Currently, with one hundred watts, WRUC can be heard in Albany, but in the future WRUC will strive to expand their wattage to 1000 watts. To attain this goal, three to four years of paperwork and a great deal of money will be necessary. According to Bruce, many technicians and disc jockeys from other stations have commented that WR UC is one of the best college studios that they have seen. Ideas for change are constantly being discussed. Su in the words of Bruce, \'who knows what will happen next?\ PHOTO OF THE WEEK: Hamilton goalie Guy Hebert escapes the dangers of orange throwing Union fans. For the fourth year the frutt has accompanied the rivalry between the two teams. Ul :2 <( :::::; __J ~ if) ii: :r: 0 >- [! 0 5 I a..

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS January 26, 1989 Olnncnrlti.ensjs NEW.S ANALYSIS By BRAD MONDSCHEIN The Supreme Court, as predicted, is moving to the right with the new \Reagan Appointees\ sijting on the bench. On January 23, the Supreme Court handed down a decision that set a major precedent for the overturning of Affirmative Action. The decision, written by Sandra Day O'Conner, overturned a Virginia law which was geared toward curbing discrimination in the . procurement of city building contracts in Richmond. The law stated that 30 percent of all building contracts in the city of Richmond must be awarded to minority-ownet! businesses due to the discrimination of awarded contracts beibre the law was enacted. Prior to the law, only two-thirds of one By BRUCE HAY, JR. In the last couple of months a number of memorable steps towards peace in the world have been made, the most notable ones by Mikhail Gorbachev. From unilateral disarmament to troop withdrawals from: Afghanistan, Gorbechev has consistently shown that he is following up on his quest. The question more pressing than most, though, is whether the steps made by Palestinian Liberation Organization leader Y asser Arafat are as genuine as those made by Gorbechev. In the past, the PLO has been far from a peaceful organization with tenoris t activities spanning the globe, these acts ranging from killing members of the Israeli Olympic team in Munich to bombings of buildings, and possibly Pan American Flight 103. The exact reasons are nO<t dear, but it would not be hard Supreme Court: Prejudiced,_ Or Just Simply Conservative? percent ofall building contracts were awa:Ilded to minority firms, In the decision, Justice O'Conner stated in reference to past decisions that, \Like the claim. that discrimination in primary and secondary .scllooling justifies a rigid racial preference in medical adll]issions, an amorphous claim that there has been past discrimination in a particular .Past discrimination in a partic11lar industry 'CalliJ.()f jq.~tify the use of an unyielding ra~ial q11uta. industry cannot justify the use <>f an unyielding racial quota.\ This statement by the majorlty is a great setback to the proponents of Affirmative Action. The court suggests that the course they are on is to eradicate all racial quotas in a piecemeal-fashion. The dissents came from three of the oldest judges on the bench, Justices Marshall,. Brennan, and Biackmun-. Justice Marshall wrote, ,;A century of decisions by this and other federal courts has richly documented the city's disgraceful history of public and private racial · discrimination.\ Justice Black;mun was much .more e?(.plicit in his dissenting opinion. He stated: \I never thought I would live to see the· day when the city of Richmond, VA, the cradle of the Old Confederacy, sought on its own:.. to lessen the stark impact of discrimination. Yet this court, the bastion· of Gorbachev· ',t Hailed As Peace Maker· . to say that the Palestinians are looking for a homeland and these acts were designed to gain world recognition.. This, -however, has been going on for 25 years now, and undoubtedly some members of the PLO w'ollld like to see something done in their lifetime. Yasser Arafat petitioned the United Nations for an opportunity to speak before the assembly. One of the acts suspected to be supported by the PLO was the. attack on the motorcade of Secretary of State George Schultz. Most likely unhappy about the attempt on his life, .Schultz denied Arafat a visa int<J the United States. The speech would have to wait for the. assembly in Geneva. At this time, Arafat made a Jl()Sitive effort to be recognized, but in order for the United States to open a dialogue, Arafat had to·e:l,(plidtly say that the PLO recognized the nation ·of Israel and that they renounce all forms of tenorism. The next day, Arafat met all these stipulations and a dialogue has been opened~ reach a peacable solution in the Middle East. If the world is going to get a chance to see if Arafat is genuine in his efforts, he has to be .given a chance. The United States has, but Israel has not. It is understandable because of the obvious hostilities between Israel and the PLO in the past, but to delay peace is an option that the Isreaelis would be foolish to choose. If Israel had not done a lot of the same things to gain a homeland, or participated in terrorist activities like assassinating senior members of the PLO,. then their course of action would . be completely understandable. With a lot of · help from· outside nation's, and the entrance of Israel and Prime Minister Shamir to the bargaitling table, the world might actually have a shot at peace in the Middle East. STUDENT FORUM FRESHMAN REPflESENATATIVE ELECTIONS Friday, Feb~ 3 West Dining Hall 11:30-1 :30 - College center 1 :30-4:00 Petitions and Guidelines Available in Stude.nt Activities Office 4th Floor College Center. ' Petitions DLie Mon., .Jan. 30 .by 4:30 pm in ·Student Activities Office QUESTIONS'? CALL ·WENOY EN.DRESS 374-8984 equality; ~trikes down The decision,. if made, is · Richmond's-.efforts as though seeP. as making a system discrimination :had never wher~by Tich women, meaning existe,d.\ . · those. tl}at do iwt need public '!he Court's opinion is facilties,. will be able to have recognized as the beginning of an aborti~Jn while . poorer the move towards .more women wil not :be. able to conservative :decisions.- The ·afford a private :facility. A Court has recently dedded to re.port by the Gl.lttmacher he~ a case involving abortion. Institute stated that one third of .The case, Webster v. all abortions are .given to R~productiv:e Services, is women with incomes under testing the waters of the $11.000 a year and two thirds Supreme Court's attitude earn less,than $25,000 a year. · tewanls the issue .. The decision The decision will also decrease to heat the arguments for tbe the· time'·of viability that an case are being called by liberals . . abortion can take place with n() . the Supreme <;ourt'~ \tyranny . :testing cram 24 weeks to 20 The Court's ()puuon is recognized as the beginning. 'of tbe move . towards m()re conservative decis!ons. weeks. The Supreme Court is acting in a way that many liberals in the Congress feared would occur wlien· the consrvative appointees began · to make decisions.··· The Court is - . , · · · · apprehensi.ve to qverturn Ute --..,..---.--....i.o\-! .. -.\\\\ . :decisions' of .t!;le Liberal Co.urt of small.decisions.\ The case . · ill ~he siX:ties ~utright due to· 'is expeCted. to give :a strong · tbe social upl'leavhl that would blow· to the ·Roe '<~~ ·Wade ·.· .. take'place. The Court,-though, dec-ision which l{(gaHzed · · is expected--to keep chipping - abortion in 'the first trimester: · · ·~way at lhe dec;isions from the· 'I'he decision i~ expected to sixties- as the older, more· outlaw the· use of public : Iibera~ jli_stice.~. · ret,ir.e and~· · facilities for cou~selmg and ·Presfdent Bush,· is :·able to o11tlaw the use of lJUblic fun~~ ~epl~c;:e them with: conservative · . for the procedere. _ · ' · Justices. , SPAA·Tackles ls,sue . Of Landfills By VALERIE SARWIN Members of 'Students for Political Awareness and Action ~SPAA) were enlightened on how they can and will \do their part\ in lessening the load on landfills. The ·discussion led by . Jeff Edwards, Schenectady County Planner, informed 1 those present of a primary environmental concern-- what to do with our garbage. Solid waste is accumulating at a greater rate than. our landfills can accommodate. As a result, many landfills have closed and more are expected to become inactive ·in the next few years. In order to alleviate the stress imposed upon the active landfills, communities must alter their habits and make. a greater attempt to Reduce, Re-use and Recycle. Reduction applies primarily to the use of disposable paper products; Cut back;, by doing so you tnay be saving a· spruce · .trE(e from being c.ut down. Helpful 'hints: wash dishes, don't dispose of them. Furthermore, stop rewriting papers, think long-term 'beauty and 'benefit ·Of a tree outlasting beauty of a sweet grade. · Re-use, try implemen.ting · empty jars for storage. Offer friends clothes or appliances before you impose the burden of having your town put them to rest. Remember, one person's trash is another person's fortune. By reducing and re-using, you've performed a great service to the community. With a little extra effort you 'can help prepare waste for recycling. Whether it's glass, paper, alurp.inurn, or plastics, you can assist in the process by sorting materials and bringing them to designated deposit: sites. In some counties this is mandatory. Hopefully with the hylp from Schenectady County and the administration, SP AA can provide. you . with the knowledge. and means so you· can· begin contributing. The benefits should 1 be reason enough to help recycling efforts. ·. Recycling. not only reduces pollution. it creates jobs, saves · energy and, ·most importantly,; it preserves resources. As Jeff{ Edwards~ presentation is named; \Save Our Resources Today ~ · (SORT),\ we need them for: tomorrow, ~ UNION REViEW OF BOOKS February Selection .by .l.F. Stone The Trial of Socrates · ' . ' . . February 15, 1989. · · College Center, 1 :OOsharp, Mobil Lounge,4th Floor. Moderators: Jan Ludwig. and Jon Marincola The February selection is now on safe attht1 Bookstore for one-half the retail price. I ' .

CONCORDIENS1.S /a.nu(lry 26) 1989 I.E.F'. DEADLlNE ' ' The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories -- student-initiated research projects anQ \equcationally innovative proJects'' is MondaY', February 13, 1989. Proposals. for student--initiated research p.rojects must .have- the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to superv.ise the p~r.oject. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's ofHce (Si 00, Science & Engineeartng Builaing) on forms available there. Similarly, members of. the ·College community who have \educationally in11ovative\ ptoposals should submit them to the same o:ffice on forms available there. . \ . . . Fo:rms for Faculty Hes·ear<:h PFojects are also available ir1 the Dean's Office (S100). Guidelines with respect to the I:.E.F. are available in the :Dean's Office. Inquiries about LE.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline shouLd be directed to Dean Terry Weiner, Acting Oean of Faculty. When preparing budgets., please remember that pe.r diem rate$ are nonnaUy limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to· do interviews must indicate that . arrangement$ have already been made .. If your research :includes work with hum~n subjects,. then the proposal must have· preliminary approval from the Human Subjects R.esearc'h Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants~ · · . The- Subcouncil on· He.search. and Grants 'is. now ~o.l~citing proposals for faculty research and scholarship activiti.es_. Applicati'ons and guidelines are availabl .. e in DeaA Weiner's Office (8100-S & E). The deadfine for subrnis:~ion ',of proposals is Monday;. February 13, 1989. . . . . . · .. Q!JeSt1o:ns co:ncerning the Faculty Research Fund shoul'9 be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, · pl·ease._remem..ber that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. ·T,ransportation costs should also . reflect th-e-.best rates available.- - . · · U your research includes work with ~uman subjects, the-ll the proposal must have prefi:minary approval from the Human Subjects Res~ar:ch Committee before it can b~ funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants . . . IT'S. NO SECRET PUBLIC SPEAKING COMPETITION , Contestants will be a~ked to speak for 3 minutes on a randomly chosen topic. . . . Prize money totalling $375 and award trophy. No Preparation Necessary . . TO ENTER CONTACT: SCOTI AT386-4167 OR JEN AT 346-3943 .fEBRUARY 3, 19'89 Page 3

. Page \' CONCORDIENSIS January 26 1989 ~ . . ·- ' . . Lecturer To· Foc·us On ·New Term· Abroad. Professors As,, C,olle'ge .Students • E·mpha.sizes Diversit·y Continued from page 1: opp~:rtuni ty ta witness the problyms ·of a developing participating ~l;u.4ent-good.for ;, • cou·ntry' first-hand. I~ / What happens when professors of phys.ics and chemistry become beginning students , of poetry? Or professors of music, fine arts and literature take on Newtonian mechanics? The result, according to ; college professor and author · Sheila Tobias, is a better understanding of the way : professors teach their own · specialties. Tobias has found that it isn't always the ·1 specialist who best understands why newcomers faiL Expert . knowledge is important, but ·. outsiders to a field sometimes can best find what is making a · subject difficult for certain students. Tobias win discuss this topic in a lecture titled \Professors as College Students: What Can They Teach . Us?\ on February 2 at 11 a.m. at the College Center Auditorium in the Union College campus. The talk is free and open to the public. Tobias, a pioneer in the analysis of math and science anxiety and avoidance, has been organizing workshops where professors in one field try to learn their colleague's domains. She calls the project \Peer Persp.ec ti v es on the Curriculum.\ Tobias speaks on the topic with a certain ·amount of authority, having positioned herself in 1974-- as an outsider in mathematics -· a field she· hadn't studied fcr20 years. She found that an aln:ming number · of students-- especially women · and minorities -- were steering . clear of mat:h, taking what she calls the ''slippery slide of the · quantitative.\ S orne students started in maj<>rs that had · · substantial mathematics requirements, but later • sidestepped iuto other less- quantitative disciplines. It isn't always the speciaUst wbo best understands wily newcomers fail. Outsiders to a field sometimes c~n best find what is mak:in~ a subject <linicult fo.r. certain students. Most student& assumed they didn't have tlte mathematical mind required for college-level work in mathematics. Some reported earty childll·ood traumas at tile blackboard, where they were exposed as slow or ignoraut in frollt of their classmates. Tobias even found what she <:alled \sexism in mathematics,~· the belief by women that matll ·is a male domain and tha.t their gender explains tl!eir poor performance. The answer .. Tobias thought, \To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and those who edit and read it are old women over their tea.\ - Henry David Thoreau We eat pizza, too. It may sound silly, b'llt it is a lot of fun so be an old woman and write for News! Call Elise -x4410 Jay x4153 or Becky 374-8984 INFORMATIONAL MEETING February 1 at 4:30 SS t()3 UNION COLLEGE TERM ABROAD: WOMEN, ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, AND TECHNOLOGYINBRAZa Focusing on the contribution of w-omen to Brazilian development and ()n. urban planning. FALL 1989: September 10 - DecembEr 10 Sao Paulo~ Brazil Contact: Martha Huggins, ext. 6292 or Bill Thomas, ext. 6()()2 THE STUDY TERM This, one-semester study program, on women, technology, and economic development in Brazil, will consist offour courses: BRAZILIAN CULTURE, ECONOMICS, POLITICS. AND SOCIETY; a survey of Brazilian S()dety. URBAN PLANNING, Architecture and Urban Planning in the City of Sao Paulo. Pr()f. Rosa Grena Kl&ss. WOMEN, TECHNOLOGY, AND DEVELOPMENT IN BRAZIL; Women oin Brazilian De-ve~~pment. Prof.· Martha K. Huggins. THE PORTIJGESE LAN'GUAGE; Ass()ciacno Alumni. These four courses will be equal t() a. total of 13 semester hours. was to give these studSnts. a feeling of control over the· ptocess of math. One of her innovations -- tile \half~page technique\ -- had students use the right side of a piece of paper for notes and calculations, and the left side for their thoughts and feelings on the problems. lnstead of a textbook rendering of a mathematical o,perktion,. they could create a flowchart of their own interaction with the material. Tobias is a visiting scholar in political science at the University of Arizona, 't'uscon, and she also teaches for part of the year at the University of California, San Diego, and at the University of Southern California in LO$ Angeles. She is the author of \Overcoming · Math Anxiety;\ and ''Succeed · With Math: Every Student's Guide to Conquering Math Anxiety.\ Her findings on the role of professor as college student have been published in The New York Times, Wall Street Journal, The Chronicle ()f Higher Education, Change, and the American Journal of Physics. A former associate provost at Wesleyan University, Tobias is :also a foundin-g member. of the Natio~al Organization of Women. . . travel within Brazit~,: · . .-:;,_ ' · November 1989 Brazil wHl · ~~·. · \:::>~{.\' hold·its'first ditect election fdr Consistent witfi ·the terms president in almost 30 vears. · ' abroad· philQsopJly; the for:mal jnstructiori stmlents receive in There will be an Brazil win only be a. part of the informational rneetin;g educaJion they ~e ba~k .to. the Febx:uary 1st iti S Sl 03 at 4: 3() United States. Wheri lo.ok:iog at .· '· J?'M. All. interested students what this term has· to . .off err . must apply by February 15th consid:er the fact that Braiil is ' ' ' and . ·Will -be 'lOld of the the fifth .laT:gest c.o;Q!:ltfY on c.op;rmitt:e~s. Q.ecision b'y earth and th.e. world's lh.ird February· 25th~· ·There is only largest democ:rft¢Y. Whit~ it has ; 1 o n.e ... p:rereq1.1.isi te: aU the We..s~ern world's eighth • \ Participants must take :a largest economy; it also bas f b~ginning Pottuguese . cla~s the develo~iag- woda's largest · being offered at Union College · · external debt·. · Brazil's Springtenn: Of'course, anyorie ·. population of European, · may take thts language c.ourse, Japanese, and African · not only those who w1sh to · attend the term abroad. If you descendants stands in statk · h,ave .. any· ques.tions, coutact ~o~trast to_ its : ~windll~g ~ith~r Professor Huggins at In?igenou~ P?IJnlatiOn. S-?Cl~ · 6292 or Professor Thomas at sc.tence ma:JGrs . espe~~a~lr , . 6'002. Remember, your best mtght want _to constder Brazil_ s · ·qualification is.eiithusiasm and caltural n.~hness and the · : a .genuine.desire to learn. Just a r.emind~r that all ol,lr library users will · need to. have bar codes affixed ·to I.O.'s before library mater-ials may b~ ,charged .out. Please be patient with us as we are a1llearning.to use the new system, and th~ first char:ge ... out takes a· few extra miiu1tes. Long-tergt, we believe you. will. appreciate anQ:~ ehjoy the: new capabilities the system provides. Because of the capabilities of the up coming Library online public access catalog (Minerva), the 'Serials Il1.formation System (SINS) ,and , Women's Studies , prototype databases are no longer available; · / .. ' ~ -' -~rom the Career Development Ceriter .•• · Internships and_ Fellowships. o The Watervliee Arsenal is looking forvoluteer intei::fis t<l fill a n\h\liber of positions in.volt<ing the sciences, computers and engineering. These positions would require 8·12 hours of -work a week. 0 The Assembly of the ,State of New York is seeking to-2.<! talented students for summer re.~ch assignments at the CapitaL Application deadline: March 15, 1989. · ·>. 0 Inc. Magazine. is looking for six editorial interns to wod<: full-time during June, July, and August, 1989. The salary for the summer is approximately $1100. Deadline for applications i!r March 1, 19S9. 6 WABC TV channel 7, :New York, NY, has an Internship Program geared to giving the student an excellent introduction to the functioning of a television facility and allow him or her the opportunity to receive \hands on\ experience in his or her field of specializati011. . . . • . 0 Belmont Hill School of Belmont, MA is offering teaching internships in the ares of languages, math, history, and att. Interested candidates should 11pply before March 1, 1989. 0 Warren, Gorham. and Lamont, Inc,, a Manhattan basedprofessional publisher, offers several positions in which students assist with acirttinistrative and clerical work and become involved in special research projects. Application deadline: February 1, 1989. 0 Several newspapers are offering internships to minority students through the Dow Jones Newspaper Fund, Inc •. Scholarships are awarded to ten intern~ :n the end of the S'lllliii1er. Application deadline: February 28, 1989. 0 The Cloisters, a branch museum of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, will offer g. work-study internships io college students. Interested freshmen and sophomores are encouraged to apply. Application deadline:,February 8, 1989. 0 Our Town Television of Saratoga Springs will hold an. introductory meeting for students interested in, the company~s four month intern trainingpro~ram on Saturday, January 21 at 3:00PM. Meeting location ll!ld driving directions are availa~ie at the Career Devetopment <;enter. 0 The International Schools of Internship Program (ISIP) is a new and unique program which seeks to place 1989 college graduates as intems.in overseas America!l schools throu~out the world. · o Norstar Bank has a summer internship available l<l college juniors who wish\ to explore banking as a career option. Applications will be accepted untilMarch 31. 0 AFSCME District Council 37 offers full time pai~ su..mmer internships in their Politica}. Action and Legislation Department. Application deadline: March 15, 1989. . . . . o A summer internship offered by the Women's Direct Response Group will introduce students to direct marketing. Application deadline: Februazy 6, 1989. -- o CSEA, Local 1000 AFCSME, is offering a Legislative Intern Program to qualified students with the oppbrt11nity to experience first band lhe relationship between the Stllte Legislation artd New York State's largest public employee uni<in. More information about these and other internships a)i.d fellowships is available at the Careet Development Center located on the third floor of Old Chapel. Summer Jobs/Part-Time Jobs 0 The Nuclear Engineering Institute of Argonne National Labs is accepting applications from juniors and seniors who are full time engineering or computer science students. Deadline:. Feb. 1, 1989. - 0 Summer Research Participation frogram of Argonne National Labs, is accepting applications for a research internship with staff superVisors and seminars. Students should ·have.cornpleted their sophomore year. Deadline: Feb. 1, 1989~ 0 John Hopkins University has teaching assistantships located atDi~kinson, Franklin and Marshall, and Skidmore. Openings are expected in History, Music, Gennan; Classics, and World GeopoliticalStnfctures. Deadline: Feb. 1, 1989. 0 Teaching Assistantships/Writing Skills offered by Jolm Hopkins University. Various locations. 0 NYS Dept. of Environmental Conservation needs camp counselors,. as well as Supervisors, Cooks, and Food Service workers to staff their camps. Apply early, interviewing starts in January. 0 Glacier Parks. I:nc.,located in Montana, has positions open of all kinds for the summer of 1989. 0 T. R Adventures, a summer employment referral setv(ce, offers employment around the world, in every field of interest. Acquire career experience and college credit. · · 0 Yellowstone Park Service Stations are accepting jobapplications on a first come, first. serve basis. For those who like the .. outdoors, · 0 NYS College of Veterinary Medicine is accepting a:Jlplications from minority students who are interested in veterinary medicine as a career. ° Camp. Wohelo,lccated in South Casco, ME, is accepting applications. Counselor openings in Sailirtg, Telmis, Water Skiing and more. ***For more imo!Ulation on these jobs and others, cQme. to the CDC.

I • ' i ' i CONCORDJENSJS January 26, 1989 Page 5 '.2···.·· . . The Union College Amateur Radio Club, W2.U·C invites you t . ·b · · · ·. · b · · · \H \ o · eco-me.a:mem er. . am Rad:io operators a.re invOlved in enierg~ncy pre,parediness, satellite. operation, pac'ke1 raq,lo networks, and technical ; ~\ !: . ~ .oo lo.;,~ ·foi...:.O!-J z: jl) C. t. 1 i'<JE•MANN t•~D~ + E ll.tN (l. I -<\ s ,c ~ J: 1:) 'l D ' .:::Jp, ~ . z. 'IJ,J z. :J lr ~ R 4 £ I'll ·f:\ I) . R I(CNIR'j '{ f , ~ N lll. 4 Ill T c '( .!' ).. .... <' ~ \ () (' ~ ... ~ '\ ~ ·t-t. -<;~ .... <!>· - ,'> c~'«- j AZl. •• so· .... ~E eo~!\. :r• ·~ CoHA>-1 ~ F~ .. ~'Z. \.\I\T2. GJE'fH ~ ' ~A A, fJ..Y A, ~ 'V ~o\ «' '1,-' t{' T RAC'( B. rr~ A p~t>.IO ,. P~Ail> '.N'oRLD \\,., <.\ ~ 0 1- ~\V <.l\ .. ·J < ' ' ._,& c. () I - ') r I< c,_, J'oC::·L , \'NDV 1b 11..1.- LAuRE'N·, :t-JA\\l'C'{, ·\\.~ 0 .L L '( r R I ' ~ R.uTH fl'f:IL l. i 5col\\ 'l 1\. ~~ 4<.£. _,, :.. N~>!tE G£1\i[i\A \ (IQt\1(';, HI'S PAI\i IC \''J:.•c. .Ei> \{~L~.C, (. So[ P)\f~ l?O\( E lZ I) 0 1 H \ 11'\£. I{L A~:.·, 1{ ~o>ll>\(t1'\or-l'' Wli\rl 6 f\uct. cla~~·c(l..\ ':>'tuH oi\Jilh ~c... 1 P,-:,h \e'/ HANS SCI-\WAf- £D ! N\ I !i.E: experimentation. Licensed .. m·e.mbers can use the club's ·:radio· station to tal'k.to other :. ,/,. oo -+r.e . • R o 13 w•fh Q·'LG'-IE. PAUMM\ \).r>.NZIGER. /'\ ,;.;:- \ ~· .J. EU.IO'i 6 . ~ 00 JDHN ~ K 1\ 'f\-\ - . . . . _hams acro·ss.the country o:r around the .w·orld. To find out more about Jo·in:ing the club or . _ abput licensing, oontact .professo.~ Magahlz at ext. j:: .MoRGAN~ N f\:1 DS IO·l!O ;; +h.(. T'lo.d '-' N IN I ~~\d f,-;.h s\'.oi>J ~ \!JI+~ lj:\N 6374. P.6i£ · WHEN TO GO WHERE: Revi•d from Last Week's I$Slle THE ·COLLEGE .CENTER 370-6129 _ . . .......,. MON.- .F.Rt ........................ \ ............................................ ··-·· .... 7.:0.0 AM -::1 :00 AM SAT.-SUN~ ..... ~, ......... ~ ................................................. 1 0:00 AM -1:00AM INFORMATION/TICKET ·BOOTH 370·6369 .M·O.N.- SUN .................................................................... .12:00 .P .. M - i :00 AM CENTRAL MAIL SERVICE 370-6048 MON.- FRL .............................. 7:00 AM -12 NOON.; 1:00PM-3:30PM THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE 370-6188 MON.- FRt ............................................................ ~ ........ 8:45 AM- 4:30 PM SAT .......... ;~ .................................................................... i·1 :00 A:M- 3:00PM· ·SU·N . .... : .. . :~: .................................................................................... CLOSED RECREATION ROOM* MON.- FRI. ................................................................. :8:30 AM -12:30 AM SAT.-SUN.: ........................................................ I2':00 NOON -12:30 AM .*Pool table equipment is available at the Information/Ticket Booth beginning at noon DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT (CASMGNLY> 370-t.051 MON.~ FRL ............................................... ~ .......... , ..... 8:00AM- 1 i :15 PM* Continental Br-e~kfast.. .................................... ~ .......... 8:00AM-8:30AM Full Breakfast.. ......................................................... .8:30AM- 10:30 AM Luncheon .......................... ~ ........................................ 1 i :3() 'AM - 1 :30 PM *Hot Food &Grillltems ............................................. 8:30 AM- 10:30 PM · · Fountain and Snack items always available any time. DUTCHMAN'S RATHSKELLAR . . MON.- r;RL .............................................................. 11 :00 AM-8:00PM* Meal Card Hours (lunch) ......................................... 11 :30 AM .. 2:00 PM Meal Card Hours (dinner) .............................. -.......... 4:30AM- 7:00 PM SAT. - SUN .................. c ............................................. ..4:00 PM- 9:00 PM *Note: Cooked to orderitems available unttli/2 hour befor& closing. UPPERCLASSMEN'S DINING HALL (mecal plan & ccnll) 370-6139 MON.- FRI. LUNGH: .................................................. 11 :30 AM -1 :30 PM MON.- FRI. DINNER .................................................... 5:00PM- 6:30PM Please visit West College Dining Hall for all your weekend brunches and dinners. . WEST COLlEGE- DINING HALL · - MON.- FRI. FULL BREAKFAST .............................. ..7:30.AM- 9:00AM MON.- FRI. LUNCH .. : ............................................... 11 :30 AM - 1 :30 PM MON. - FRI. DINNER. ................................................. 5:00 PM- 6:30 PM SAT.-SUN Continental Breakfast. ............................................ 1 0:0() AM -10:30 AM Brunch ...................... : ................................................. 10:30 AM- 1':00 PM Di·nner .................. , .......................................................... S:OO PM- 7:00 ·PM · ROCK-'N'R~OLL PIZZA PUB DELIVERS DAILY .............................................................................. 4:00PM -11 :.00 PM Please note \after hours\ and weekend special catered rneals requiring unit staff will all be accomodated inthe Hale House/Old Chap.el Complex. 1ttank you for your cohtihued support. · · ~EvJ 8 91 \\-lh fi..ST tD MAP 5 .. T l Y! . != ~ L.\. O•t..\ HRIS M AST\\,\N·' I':' '· ···~E.w t>l\11~\o\f' '1 h R\ <;:;-\' '<\ .;{:: ~v :1'>~ ~ \_I ~...~ C) /; 0 ~Po.ll.T'>LINI tht boHo,.., L tGENOS C H iC,I.J,o I •n'- C~N !ol(.(lloloi kUNY MHAL .JoHN MoLLER. FRoM. ~ELL THE INTRODUCTORY MEETING FOR DANCE CLUB IS ON TUESDAY, JAN. 31 AT '\ 6:30 PM IN TH :E PAS ROOM OF THE ARTS BUILDING. EVERYONE WELCOME! IF INTERESTED I BUT CANNOT ATTEND: CALL MARCIA AT 370-6972 OR JOHANNA AT 386-4029 I

•. Page 6 COIVCORDIENSIS January 26, 1989 . - .• FEATURE ARTICLES Providing Relief For Union <:;omputer User/OwnerS By TRACEY PRYLUCK Do you own a computer? Have you attempted to connect your computer to the VAX, or have you joined the forces of non-computer owners who seek to find such connected computers so as to complete necessary classroom assignments? If you have ever had any connection with the Union College VAX system, or if you anticipate· such contact in tile future, then it would help if you became aware of the Academic Computing .Subcouncil of t:he Academic Affairs Committee, created to evaluate and develop long-range plans and policies for meeting the computing needs of t;Jle Union College community. This committee consists of several faculty representatives from each of the major academic divisions on campus: humanities, social sciences, natural sciences and math, the library, and the computer center. The committee also includes one student representative who is charged with the rather awesome task of voicing the needs, concerns, and desires of the 2100 or so students attending Union Cpllege who may, at some point during their academic career at Union; find themselves seeking the services of the .campus computing facilities. This student representative, yours truly, is currently writing this article to inform you of the c0mputing resources available on campus and to let you know that help _ is out there if you are having difficulty connecting to or interactin-g with the VAX Alma Mater: A New Book That Catalogues Colleges' Histories · By CHRISTINE HONG Edit().r-in-Chief 1988 saw the \Peterson's Guide Publishing Company give credit where credit's due to Union College in its book, Alma Mater. In the first book of its kind, author Don Betterton cites various stories and facts about the college campuses across the nation; · Upon examination of the in(lex, one can notice that accounts are credited to Union College and its immense history.· Most of the facts and anecdotes are already familiar to a majority in the Union Community. However, it's obvious that Mr. Betterton did a iot of research to verify the Union 'legends' and uncover forgotten facts. Accounts of Union range from the obvious to · the obscure: recognition of the Nett Memorial (nothing new) to a discussion of a joint business venture with Columbia University in 1814. Here are some of the unusual facts: (Excerpts from Peterson's Guide Alma Mater by Don Betteron. $9.95). \In 1814, when Union College of Schenectady petitioned· the New York State legislature for money to construct new buildings, Columbia was asked to throw its weight behind the proposal. Naturally, Columbia wanted something in return for its efforts .. The Union president, Eliphalet Nott; worked out a corhpromise. Union would receive $200,000,. with Columbia acquiring 12 acres of land in New York City. President Moon of Columbia was publicly scolded f~r accepting a worthless tract network. IBM PCs and Apple Macintosh personal .computers · with hard disks were installed in SHllO and SHlOO (the Rainbow Room) for Catnplls- • wide use. Only the IBM PCs · areloaded with the WordPerfect· - - . software package, so word processors need only locate SHllO to complete their writing assignments. Laser printing is available for both computers in the Steinmetz Hall Copy Center at a cost of $.15 per page. Regular printing on HP RuggedWriters. (IBM computers) and lmagewriter printers (Apple computers) is available free of charge. Veterans of previous years ot VAX computer use may recall the extensive delays which accompanied the tenth week countdown, wbea apparently everyone on campus attempts to access the system at once to complete papers, projects, and all other cornputeriz.ed assignments. Attempts were made this summer to correct these problems through the redistribution of software packages within the VAX network. WPS-PLUS is now exclusively available on Alvin, and all other .applicati~ns software other than the utilities have been removed·- and redistributed thtou.ghout the cluster. lf you are a newcomer to the I VAX system and .feel more than a little lost, HOW TO sheets regarding -virt:ually every computer application have been created to assist you, and these can be located in the public user roorns. Union CoUege offers a variety of other coil'l.]lllter services -of which I iloJle to make you aware through()utthe course of the· term · tllr()ugh articles such as this o11e. For tbe s.ake of · ·space and readability, however, 1 think it's time to bring this computer awareness/assistance sessi()n to a close. Let me conchde by reminding you that I was appointed to the Academic Computing Subcoun.cii to represent you, but I cannot possibly do so effe<;tively unless you inform me <>f your computing needs and problems. If you have any ideas, suggestions, problems, or issues you would like ,rai1;ed at the next ACS meeting, please contact me at 370-6912 :Ors~nd a memo via campus mail to Box 1741\ or via VAX ma::il to · . 91 PRYLUCKT~ ' . ' ~ - The Health And Fitness Column BY JACQUELINE RANDALL Dear Health and Fitness Editor, I do nautilus three times a week and it is my only form of exercise. I just cannot seem to lose weight. Am I doing samething wrong? Please responq. c · Workout Wonderer Dear Workout Wontlerer, Nautilus is done for spot reducing. It is exercising a muscle that is directly under a fat deposit. However, fat does not immediately turn jnto muscle when it is exercised because muscle and fat are not interchangeable. What does happen, is that the \flabby\ muscles become stronger and increase in size so that you end up with the same fat deposit on top of it. When you do nautilus, you are exercising certain muscles and the caloric demand is small. This is an anaerobic exercise. On the other hand, during aerobic exercise. large sets of muscles are used and the demand is much larger. Therefore, aerobic exercise burns more fat. and calories whose value had fallen from _ $80,000 to a mere $6,000 : during the past five years, As it turned out, Columbia:s· midtown Manhattan land was . the acreag.e on which .. Rockefeller Center was built. . In 1985, Columbia sold the land to the Rockefeller family · for $400 million,. a return of about $34 million an acre.\ \When Union College was ' invited to the intercollegiate crew championship in 1875, it pointed out to Harvard that · Union had used magenta as its color since 1860 and requested that Harvard change· from magenta to a· different color. Harvard, outr<}ged by the efftontry of the small college from upstate New Y ark, fitmly refused; As a result· of the ''Magenta War\ of 1875, each Continued on page 7 ... than spot exercising. For weight control, take up an aerobic exercise and continue nautilus for body toning. Dear Health and Fitness Editor, I am really interested in fitness of the body; mind and spirit. T heard that Tai Chi is being offer-ed at Union on Tuesday afternoon~. Can you . please tell me the difference between the martial arts programs: Karate, Tai Chi, an:d Judo? · Perplexed Professor Dear Perplexed Professor, Martial arts is. a group of physical activities -rhat originated in Asian countries. People practice various forms of martial arts for different reasons: exercise. self-defense, recreation and body healing. The basis of martialarts resides in posture and body moyement. Karate and Kung Fu are the most poplular among the martial arts teehniques. Karate is called hand and foot fighting and covers a variety of Chinese, Japanese and Korean styles. It is a type of self defense that uses no weapons and instead consists of arm strikes, thrusts and kicks. Hard Karate is one style that emphasizes power and strellgth. In contrast. ·Soft Karate fav--Qrs speed and agility. Tai Chi mov:emen~s . are- more related to Karate ,a,li.d Kung Fu but are more gell:tle. Tai Chi is -an ancient Chill~se · aFt which is a combinatio11 of mo~em¢rit;' self defense .and mediul.tiQn. Tai Chi's graceful .smooth movements calms the mind, releases ph:y,si<:al tension, improves general health and elevates one's S]lirit. Anyone 'o/ho is interested. in health · and aware11ess, developing mind and lJotly connection and releasing tension\ then Tai Chi is for you. - .. Ju(lo is more sp()rts orientated than Tai Chi. -Jad(). is a form of activity that str-esses physical education, spo:rt, :self defense and physical str~Dgth. Judo techniques· include throwfng,. grappling aiid attacking. I hope one of these athletic programs interests you. ?lease direct your question~ and suggestions to Health/Fit11ess Editor, Box 199'3. lfa-ve a healthy week! Dr. King's Birthday Celeb.ra1ed . By JOYCE WHITTED The celebration of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday was met by Union College with a_ power outage. The upperclass dining hall along with We$t College was in the midst of being decorated in shades of Red,_Black, and Green when all when all went dark. These colors are very symbolic 'to people of African descent. Red: the blood that all blacks share, which unites them. · Black: simply the color of thetr skins. Green: .sy\mbolizing the continent of Africa ftom which blacks come; As I walked around. the dining hall, I o~served marty people using the symbol o:{ the African national flag -- which was the centerpiece for 'the evening -as a napkin to ~ash their faces. The menu was suggested by M~. Sharon, Dixon, Co- Chairp~rson of Black Latin Alliance of Students. Director , of food services, Ms. Janet Gray, was very eager 1() be of assistance for the pre:var:ation ~d the decor of, the hall. :B. LAS would like to thank he.t. very much for helping us to celebrate Dr. IGbg's birtll~y. BLAS hopes that despite the ovet~populated atmospllere that everyone enjoyed the meal ~d at the very least thoug.ht,about the tnarl the dining h:aJl Wa$ honoring.

CONCORVIENSiS January 26, 1989 Page 7 FEATURE ARTICLE.S ~----~~~--~--~------~--~----~----~--------,- \ The Sitting Girl And-· The OperatOr, ' By MARK . HAUGHTON Feature~ Editor . . Down the sterile Janes of ·tbe library sits the sitting girl. She is illuminated in the fluorescent light. She is dressed in red; red bow, red shirt, red socks; she'$ pretty much red all over; Her shoes sit top; they are silent while ~aiting. fQr their commands. She has been here too long and fidgets with the cml· of her hair. She must be wearing wool socks for she can't stop sc.ratching . at · her.· feet. Constantly, she gnaws at her red fingernails. Her head is a comp1:1ter. SHe is processing data from the days' hurst of . knowledge •. She is watehed·. Her moves are monitored and her 'ignorance is incr:eased. The. computer down the hall senses this. It realizes that ;She has become cotpphJible an<;l; .it Wi~hes to make a link. · · · ·, · \Tap. Tap. 1001101 10 100011010; ... the link is made. A voice escapes from the screen, \T.ap of Sitting Girl complete; await further reading.\ · Read .. \Reading\ .... ,God my head, can't this be · integrated from 0 to infinity! Vance is going to kill when he' finds. our about this ope. Maybe I shciu.Jd kill Varice. He was~:!'ever very nice, and kind of ugly. Anyway, he didn't carry liis head too high when i ·· dumped him on Tuesday.\ The compt),te'T and its operator had made the most un.believable connection, the ultimate thougJtt steat brain espionage. Faster than fast, fingers flew ov« the keyboard, hopping fr<nn space bar to key and back again. ];loth were excited. Carelessly, the. operator dug into the thoughts of the sitti]1g gid. It dug through the skull. now. it wades through the brain. It .digs into the girl's present, similar to the gho$t of Chris.tmas Present th.at dug through Ebene;l:.e:r.. If 'knew . .no bounds, as it leaped into the past. Learning, storing, analyzing; . unaware, and uncaring. it traced sketches of het thopgbts. From the past, the computer prodded into the future. She was now aware of its presence. Her ! . ' ,·, ''.< .,...r palms sweated profusely. her neck twitched in anxiety. Her head hurt. Convulsions spread ,,ramp.ant througliout her hoay. · :She flexed and.tWisted from her chair always gasping for air, struggling tOward the machine. She dragged .her paralyzed l~gs behind her as would a wounded ant; likely, a victim of a footstep~ With every stretch, every cirag, the .sitting girl lost her energy. Not half the distance toward the computer, s:he dropped. Her movement had :halted yet her body dried up as if it were a grape. in the hot summer heat. She shrunk. .. smaller and smaller until she was simply dust. The door at the end of the hall opened and out came the sitting girl. Her chair at the end of the hall was now taken by a girl in black. She was pretty, and dressed in all black. From ' (/) a. a: 0 (.) ~ LU J:L. (/) f- a: <( <( co :2 ;::) -' 0 (.) LL 0 >- (/) UJ I- II ::l 0 0 ~ 0 :c . a. the dcoor the sittmg girl approached the computer and sat down to monitor the girl in black. She watched every move. \I am the operator.\ Those words crept softly from her lips, \I am the operator. I wish to make a link ... link with the gitl in black.\ · Again from the screen a voice whispered, \request processed. link completed~\ Where D'o You Want To Go? By SUZANNE SHAKER . Featutes Editor · China, Japan, Italy-~: Israel, England, Spain, Mexico, . Brazil. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. I want tO visit all of these places. I want to. travel, _ everywhere. I want it a'll! Eight terms abroad, yea, eight sounds just tight, perfect. Perfecft if I . had .an eX.tra two years at Union. but I don't.. which myans I must narrow my choices. Sounds like a decision. Decisions are not my forte. Mom, Dad, anyone out there, Help! Where to go? When to go? What to see? A yeai? A termJ. Travel before? Travel after? \Well' Dear, why don't you go to the library, take out a few hooks, research the places on your list; take some notes and draw your conclusions . from there.\ Thanks, Mom. You've been a tremendolls hefp. Instead of choosing my term abroad for me you have simply added another Course. to ·my already very busy schedule. I suppose the wise thing to do would be to head on down to the terllls abroad office, located en the second floor of the Humanities building. Let me warn you. Do not bust through the door, fly over to ·the secretary's desk and demand informatio11 on every term abroad, this tactic just doesn't work. I've tried it. Your best bet would be to talk to Prof. Thomas, head of the terms abroad program, who I found very helpful. He will answer a:ny questions and try to steer , those of us potential term ahroadees in the right direction. He will not make a decision for you. Oh well. So you want to know more . You want the dirt, the nitty gritty. What .really goes on over there. Talk to your friends, your enemies, even strangers. Bombard them with questions,. beg to see their pictures. Drain them of every detail. You will probably find ·that almost each and every one Alma ·Mater Has Some • ' ~ • . I Interesting Facts. Continued f~om page 6 college retained its original color, but Harvard byganto call its magenta crimson, while Union labeled its magenta . gam~t.\ Union is also attributed as to hav'ing graduated two U.S. secretaries of state who s_erved during the .same time. \During the Civil War, Union graduate William Seward (remeJ,nhered for 'Seward's Folly,' the · purchase of Alaska), was secretary of state under Lincoln. The secretary of state fot the Confederacy was Robert Toombs, Union class of 1828.\ Other interesting facts noted in Alma Mater: Union College provides its own .cemetery for its faculty that . has been in use since 1863. Union has one alumni that graced our undergraduate halls that went on to become U.S. President: Chester Arthur. We all know where his statue stands. · WRUC is recognized as the first college radio station to go on air as well as one .of the first to broadcast regular programming. The greek-letter fraternities originated at Union in 1825 first with Kappa Alpha and then Sigma Phi and Delta Phi. The three fraternities have come to be referred to as the 'Union Triad.' There lue many other facts about Union and other colleges detailed in this rook (written at a level that's almost too easy to digest). But it's still worth taking a look at. ; you talk to will rant and rave about their experience. You may find yourself caught in the middle of a competition of the countries. Don't panic, this is just part of the process. But before you even start exploring the possibilities right off the bat there are certain factors to consider that may help you to narrow your choices immediately. A~k yourself these questions. What part of the world would you like not only to visit, but to spend an extende<i· period of time in? Would you prefer to . live with a family, in an apartment or at a university? How important are the comforts of home? (Some · 1N1Wti)C1'0R1 f'MA~lA?~ (tgh; of 1-e.t-+11, no !o~te.) terms may be less luxurious than others.) Are you drawn to a particular country because of its culture, people, language, or history? I can honestly say I lla ve only heard wonderful stories about terms abroad. The opportunity to interact with foreigners on a regular basis, to become very close witn a small group, to finally see places you have read about in history books and travel guides, to live with families of other cultures, has.been de..scribed.by so many as the best experience of their lives. Whoever· coined the I phrase, \The best education is found outside the classroom,\ must have gone on a term abroad. CON(LUDINC. l'r\~P.(ti~;WI{ ( 5oMe..Ma\ l•01p <:t'ld cirow'l G:6e5 uve< SoMf ~round a~ fovr ?re~ed'\9 P\'~~rap'-s ) (OLOR Glos~y rc~ ·<:olored e>ler•or-, r6ther blv<: u~drr-\~~fh Occas•o•'c.\ 4!-t<'\e ~ ~ 'oltnd 1 r~~vlt\'5 rrlpurplc·pc.<S<Ij(> LEARNING TO WRITE WELL. IS NOT A. PRETTY THING. I I I

Page 8 CONCORDIENSfS 'January 26,,- ·1989 NIGHT SKIIN-G! 1/2 price ($6) with College JD WILLARD MOUNTAIN Monday-Saturday G-10 pm Call 692-7337 for more info. SERVICE REPAIR OVERHAULING MERCEDES BEN~ • BMW ~ AUDI·· V.W. • HON.D:A MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE, INC. MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (518) 377-2268 (24 Hr. Towing • 374-1067) 349 Anthony Street Schenectady, NY · ' 2557 Hamburg Street Schenectady, NY 12303 (518) 355-6918 Jiowers & (jifts by f 13renua ¥ Order Early ¥ Many great specials! Don't forget your Sweetheart on Valentines Day ., . M-F 9-5:30; Sat. 10-5: Sun. Closed KELLY SPRINGFIELD EXPLORER 400 . ALL SEASON WHITEWALL White Wall, · Size 155/80113 185/80113 185U5114 195/75114 205/75115 215175115 225/75R15 $39.95 $49.;95 $50~95 $52.95 $56.95 $59.95 $61.95 • ., ' •• n • • • 1 Look for Circ[e Xs Valentine Flower Sale· .. . . . Februacy 1-.i 1 10:00- 6:00pm in West and the College Center - ·.· TANNING- ALL VISITS: ARE $t:~OO· SPECIALS THROUGH FEB. 7 • Men's Haircuts are $9e00. • Women's Haircuts are $13.00. Ask for Luann, Joann. • Perms and Highlighting are $40.00. Ask for Lynn, Luann, JoAnn, Beth • Facials and Pedicures are $10.00 off. Ask fqr Lynn. lliCTIIC CURRfiiTS. 'I. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. Bobby l~row·ri· · Traveling Wilburys Poison Guns & Roses (Lies) Guns & Roses · · Edie Bri.ckeU Def Leppard \C.ocktail\ Sound Track Anita Baker ' l .• - ... ~ . Source: Capital District Retail Music Store Sales ' Whv sweilt in the Caribbean when you can cruise the slopes of Okem~? Midweek lift tickets are 50%. otf ~or c~Jlege students, so it's cheaper than u,_e, Bahamas, too. Call (802)j28-'5571 f~)r lodgmg, (802) 228-4041 for generalrtdOimahon. Okemo Moun tam. So cooltt shot. OKEMO M 0 U N T A I N • · L U D .L 0 W, V E R M 0 N T \

\ CONC()RDIENSIS .January 26, 1989 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES , Israel: How· I Investigated A Land By JON COHN Many people have a difficult time picturing the Middle East. The most common sources of information may be limited to the media. In these cases, the story may be fo\cused as a byline, which even from the most objective angle rarely presents the whole picture. It is very hard to imagine that anY. television story could cover such a complicated situation in a twenty second bit. Having spent five months in Israel and around the Middle 'East, I can somewhat grasp the situation, far short of understanding every facet of emotion involved. A11 I can best do is describe what I observed, completelY as an outsider. , . Immediately upon arrival,. many of my previous notions were washed away. I had been to Israel before, b11t all the violence I had heard about made , the country seem an entire people at seige. Israel itself, that is not the areas called West Bank and Gaza, is surprisingly quiet. I went to school at Tel Aviv University, which is located outside of this, Istael's largest city. In areas such as this, one would hardly think there was any conflict. There are the usual.secU(ity checks at gate- entrances, bus stations and alike, but nothing as . I imagined. I expected a more tense situation and instead fouJ!ld <?therwis~ .. Many Israelis I met were deeply troubled with . the situation, but found solace in the routines of their daily lives. 'With· economic . . dit:fic:ulties _a censtant burden; .. political mattexs ar~ _ often '·· . ' temporarily put aside. Make no mistake though, the uprising is always on peoples minds, whatever their political affiliations may be. 1 'Go Israel\ describes tltc land as having an illusion of size because .of its many different ·geological conditions. It is in reality, a very small country;. comparable in land mass to New Jers~y. One can travel a mere 9 miles across at certain points, to go from the sea to the West bank in the east. With this in mind I will describe· one three week period in which· some friends and I Covered the country. Jerusalem, part Of IsraeL, is only about 30 mi:Ies from Tel Aviv. This became a common destination for us, with its new city plazas ana old city antiquities. In the Musl.im quarter of the old city is the Arab shuk or market, a mixture of Oriental sights and smells and inexpensive touristy gifts. This is an amazing city of contrasts, here one can almost immediately identify someone by their garb. We commonly saw skullcapped Etlliopian Israeli_ soldiers standing next to black cloaked elderly Ebropean reli,gious Jews. Greek Orthodox priests briskly .pass older Arab gentlemen, adorned with cape, suit and headdress. Ethiopian Coptics will welcome you into their colorful 500 year old church, located adjacent to the 4th century Church of the Holy Sepulchre. Its founder Helen, wife of the Roman <>emperor Augustine, is considered one of Jerusalem's first archaeclogists having located many of Christianif.X's holiest locati<>ns. in ano~er:j_>art of the old city, -- -. . -. · · This· Week: in· tile· World By Shelley .S.zy·mko ~ (1/17/89 -'1/23/89) Eastern Europe: Former Secretary· of 'State George Shultz attended the signing of a thirty-five nation last-West agreement on human rights· and security in Vienna, Austria. Sliultz praised tlie Soviet ·union, Poiand~ and}lung&y for their steps to implement the Helsinki Accord of 1975. Countries critic~ed for abuses toward human right$ were Czechoslevakia; . Bulgaria, Romania and East Gennany. · Isreal: In an attempt to enforce a stricter political p<>licy in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, Israeli soldiers dynamited the homes of three Palestines who allegedly threw stones. Uncontrollable violence in the region is responsible for the death of two more youths. Israeli soldiers stated that their tole in putting down the rebellion was robbing -them ()f their values~ and they approached Prime Minister Sh~ir on the subject. - West Germany: A list of West German turns engaged in the speculous · trading of chemical weapons with Libya continue to grow. In a~dition, the representatives of the govem.ment of Cliancellor Kohl are expected to· be interrogated by the West German parliament also for involvement in the . suspected Lib}!an chemical weapons plant. S_ri Lanka: At least fifty-one people were killed and seventy- two injured in a bus-train collision in Sri Lanka. The tragedy. occurred at an unprotected grade cross:itig sixty miles south of Colombo. The pus carried one-hundted thirty passengers. Police had to. take the driver into custody to protect him from angry townspeople. Poland: Prime Minister Rakowski urged that the anned Solidarity union be legalized if it agreed to work as a partner .. with the Communist Party. The p:roCess will ·be gradual: a triai period lasting· until 1991 will test· this operatio11. Some Communists resist this lygalization due to the politiwt\unrest that occun:'ed in 1980-198.1, when the Solidarity union had once been legalized. Palestinian women with white . ' ' head covering rush around .the marketplace, while black dressed married Bedouin women sit cross legged, against centuries old walls, the fruit they sell in their laps. Younger kids yeH and play all around, while others attempt to sell you. postcards oi' bread. This is indeed a scene repeated endlessly over time. Continuing on with our trip, we headed north for the September festival season. In the ancient port of Acco, we fmmd a theater and .crafts festival, which I could only compare to outside a Grateful Dead show. American and British 60'.s bands held a finale concert outside walls Napoleon failed to conquer in the 19th ·century. Further north was a folk festival, amidst the rolling green lands of Galilee. Nearby the river Pan ran from mountain sources into the surprisingly modest waters of the Jordan. After a night of · camping out we went back to a kibbutz, or farm, to work with some friends. Some days later, we again headed south to a film festival and free concert at the ste.eply situated San Francisco- like city of Haifa. When the busses began running again after the Sabbath, we again beaded south, this time fr~loading on a Hehrew/Sewish tour. The badlands of the Negev seemed to suddenly replace the green kibbutz lands. The desert is a triangular piece of land, that Oavid Ben Gurion. the first Prim-e Minister truly loved. The land yields secret springs and geological sights.· Ancient people came here from Saudi Arabia, developing intricate irrlgiuion systems still visible on. the land. Today, Bedouin nemads herd orange spray painted animals atound red rocks hills. Army tanks conduct dus.ty manuevers, while trucks of agricultural or industrial products hu:g the blazing roads. Workers from the Dead Sea Salt Factory commute to cities such as Arad. Look out someone's back window in this place and see only miles of baking land. This is life in the desert. Language Tables Mondays: 12:45 - 1:45 FRENCH SPANISH JAPANESE Tuesdays: 11:30 • 12:30 CHINESE Wednesdays: 12:45 • 1:45 GERMAN RUSSIAN Thursdays: 11:30 - 12:30 ITALIAN Meet in the Upp~rclass Diningroom in the College Center. f!;&,r· •. '-':i:.i~ . ...... \\'' :·~>>I'' ~ \ On tour in Acco, Israel Tbe tour went on to lhe sparkling blue waters of the south west, from the desert Red Sea, but while Eilat is lands, straight down to the generally a resort area, we were Dead Sea. This lowest point told that Aquaba is more an below sea level was industrial center. appropriately named by Feeling ~dventurous, we Christian pilgrims. What looks abandoned our tour and went on like cooling waters feels more into the Silla.i., part of Egypt like hot salad oil. Black mud since 1982.0nce past the fees, and sulfur waters are said to be we took a bus down to a therapeutic and sure enough Bedouin oasis haven called resorts pop up here and there, Dahab. Tweruy dollars is all Also experience buoyancy on you need here for a weeks stay. 33 percent salt water. Nature good vegetarian food and crafts. reserves such as Ein Gedi, Also abandoll your watch here, opposite the water, allow one since no o-ne knows or cares to hike up lush ravines along about anything along these hidden water sources. One gets lines. Take a camel ride, a feeling of timelessness here, snorkel or just sun. following an ancient trail, Another 100 miles south is periodically dotted with bronze the snorkeling paradise of and stone age relic sights. The Na'ama bay, near the old Israeli Israelis see their southern resort of Sltarm el Sheikh. region as the test of their . With a montfJ's visa, one can rugged pioneer sp1nt. get to the very end of Sinai Development towns cling called Ras Mullammed, reputed gamely to water sources, each a to have some of the best test of will. snorkeling in the world. FoUowing the Dead Sea So then it was back to Israel highway south, we found the and schooL Our school started salt/clay Mount Sodo!Jl. i\ear in August, with intensive the Dead Sea chemical language class. From October factories, one can explore to January were regular classes . dangerous salt caves or pure Political Scier1ce in the Middle white calcium ravines. From East is really a matter of .the road we could look across watching the news· day to day. the sea and Qbserve Jordaniart When some political event cities at the· base of browrt occurred we cculd immediately cliffs. No one can patrol these address it. I had an ex- waters because of their generaljp()li ~ician for a corrosive effects. The peaceful professor, wlto could say that desolateness of the area is a real he ~new of that battle since he contrast to the rr.todem tempo was commander at that very of the rest ofthe country. scene. The man who taught At the southern-mos.t ·point about the Holocaust was in fact of the country is tax-free resort himself a smvivor. These were city of Eilat. Many Europeans ·some of the qualities of a travel here for its year round classroom that was indeed a beach weather. Just a few miles country. away is the Jordanian city of (To be continued next week) Aquaba. Both cities share the GERMAN CLUB PRESENTS \Unordnung Und Fruhes Leid\. 1977 (Disorder and Early Pain) Based on a short story by Thomas Mann. Monday, Jan. 30 College Center Room 406 at7:30 pm IT AllAN MOVIE \PADRE PADRONE\ . The biographical account of a Sandin ian shepherd's struggle to escape paternal tyranny and the oppression oi .illiteracy. - Tuesday Night at 7:30 pm College Center Rm. 406

Page' 10 CONCORDIENSI$ January Z6, 198:9 ClllllUllfbitnstS '.- ... .._...,.o • . -•••••--••••••· a'··---···· •-••-·--•••••••-••··· ·~ -· . Fourtded at lJ 11i011 College 1877 ------- New Majors Add Str~ength On November 23, the Academic Affairs Council voted to add lhree new majors to the liberal: arts program. Aside from the obvious benefits of these new su~jects as possible majors, the new offerings should hav.e a positive .effect on ,the college of liberal arts as a whole. By making these additions,. the College is not only providing a greater variety of majors, but also offering a more well .rounded 1iberal arts education to liberal arats majors in general. A student majoring in literature, political science of philosophy, for example, stands only to gain by taking,a comse that examines issues from a different cultural paradigm. Science and Engineering majors will also benefit from the new disciplines offered as they will have a greater choice of liberal arts courses with which to fulfill liberal learning requirements. Presumably they will be better able. to choose courses of sincere interest rather than just signing up for whatever Humanities or Social Science course is open. The new offerings will also be an inducement fo prospective students who are interested in a solid liberal arts education to attend Union. Hopefully these !lew students will add strength .and enthusiasm to the liberal arts program. We applaud the addition of these three new majors as they are an overdue strengthening of . · the College's liberal arts program. Student Forum Asks For Voi~e .In Pecision~Making ' . To the Editors: Proverbs. Sometime.s a good, old, worn out proverb seems to fit where no other words can. In. this particular instance, the prove:r:b that applies is \The Straw That Broke the Camel's Back.\ The circumstances surrounding this proverb's usage are as follows. The 1988-89 Student Forum returned to school this winter and were surprised to discover, as was the rest of the student body, that the Deans bad instituted a tighter social policy. Though the members of the Administration refer to this change as only a small modification to the existing social guidelines, the effects of this new policy, in social terms here at Union, are far reaching. This was an issue that affected all students-- Greeks and ind~pertdents alike. Yet, as in previous circumstances, the .Student subsidiZed for pledge lunches~ Greek organizations rep:(esent a substantial amount of the siudent body. Conseq~ently, an issue of this magnitude~ becomes an issue of the Student Forum; -:both IFC and panhellenic re.presentatives came to us to see what we could do. Unfortunately, we were overlooked in. this issue entirely. In fact, a quick check of recent Union history wi:ll show that several . changes 'involving food services have taken place without any Student Forum consult:ation. general and academic interest.\ · We have worked well with the Administ:ration before. On the issue of the student housing lottery system; we supported the chan.-ges that led to tbe current lottery priority structu.re. Lately, this and other past achievements have been. overlooked. ' Forum was never notified of A disagreement between the Administration and the Student Forum is .not beneficial to anyone at Union. Yet, it cannot be expected that the Student Forum shall sit idly while important changes are takitlg place on this campus that affect our lives as well as the rest of the student body. This goes against ·the fundamental principles set fort:h in Article II of · the Constitution of the Student Body of Union College which states \The association (Student Forum) seeks to provide extended channels of communication, increased areas of coop~ration, and a greater ac.ceptance of shared responsibility between the faculty, administration, and student body in matters of This situation must be remedied if the Student Forum is to continue performing its function of representing the Student' B-ody. We are not simply askiNg for consideration iii future policy decisions, we ar asking for a, voice in the decision-making. process, We need ·to wor,k · with the Administration ·in making the decisions that affect ow lives. In fact, we invite the Administration to increase interaction with the Student Forum; maybe by increased interaction, the Administration wilf come to see that we should be included in the decison-maki-ng process concerning campus policy. The students of this school have the right to be fairly represented .. More importantly, the men and wo91en of Union College have the right to he heard. What Happened To Library Plaza Of Old? Tuesday's Gel-Time hearing session proved to be informative. Without intending to estrange the four members of lhe A.A.C. subcommittee, it seems necessary to comment not only on Gel- Time, but also the methed by which Gel-Time is being reviewed. The turn-out at the first session of the hearings was disappointing. Anyone who takes a vested interest in the scheduling system at Union sh()uld have been there ... but maybe that's not the real problem. The subcommittee, ironically enough, scheduled both its svssions during 'Gel-Time' classroom slots. So, what that means is if someone couldn't make it to the Tuesday meeting due to a Lectme, they won't be able to make it to the Thursday session either. (Think about it.) And while this editorial will reach the Union CQmmunity a few hours before the second session commences~ this JlOint should be noted for future reference, particularly if the tum-out is low like Tuesday's. However, all the blame should not be placed on the· subcomrnittee.U:ndoubtedly, there.were students lounging around in their rooms, in their halls, in their apartments, with free afternoons or even the full day (due to Gel-Time) who could not rationalize heading up to the main campus to simply make a five-minute statement. (Maii> alone, sometimes isn't worth it.) The same holds true for facuJty. Why break up a full, free day slotted for research work to trlldge up to Social Sciences? Some professors could have been contemplating coming in from home on one of their 'lecture-free' .da~s. but, then again, they're already there two-fifths of the week. All this is hard and biting; however, the truth in tbese· 'exaggerations' is revealed when one stops and looks around at Union today as opposed to two years ago. Amidst all the construction of 1985-86 and 1986-87, the campus was dispersed from Richmond basement to the Nott's basement to Hale House's 'Third Floor'. However, somehow the community seemed to be tog;ether more often than it is now, even with the opening of the illustrious_ College Center (through which the students do make their presence known for five minutes on Mondays and Wednesdays in 10:30 a.m. stampedes to the mail room). Class scheduling has played a major part of this. Don't you miss the bustle in Library Plaza in between the 9:30, 10:30 and 11:30 lectures? What happened. to the statement that everyone walked through the Library P'la.za at least once a day? Before, every hour on the half hour, one was sure to find familiar faces, a professor you needed to ask a quick question of, lively conver~ation, and most irnportantly, a communal atmosphere-- something that's vital for a small college like Union. 'Library Plaza' and all the connotatio11s behipd those two words have vanished as the words 'underpopulated tundra' set in. And this holds t1ue fer other parts of the campus. The quality and visibility of a campus atmosphere have fallen sevenH notches. Class scheduling's purpose should not be based solely on factors such as 'opportunities for daytime socializing:' however, anyone WhO Vl:).lueS and miSSeS thiS atmosphere Should COnSider this point when judging a scheduling system's suitability for Union. these changes, nor were we given the opportunity to repesent the opinion of the student body in a discussion over the implementation of this policy, Thus, this new policy became the straw that broke Student Forum's back. There were many previous issues that were implemented on behalf Of the student body . without any previous mention to its members, nor were explanations pFovided to the Student Forum. This. method of \we make the rules, they follow them\ can be self- destructive. In the instance of Gel-Time, it was implemented in spite of overwhelming student disapproval. Furthermore, last year's changes to the cooperative housing programs at both Bronner and Smith House came as a complete surprise to both the expectant residents and the Forum members. This year· alone, there have been some important changes made to existing campus policies, yet in each instance, the Student Forum was never notified, nor given a voice in any of these decisions. How cart the student body consider the Student Forum a link with the Administration, when the Administration itself, rarely does? The fa€t of the matter is, the new rules ·and guidelines were decreed by the Deans. This. fall, Greek organizatioils were informed that they would. flo ·1onger he ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00PM ON THE TUESDAY PREOEE;DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS W~LLNOT BE ACCEPTED .. ERRATA Respectfully submitted, Robert A Danziger '89 on behalf of the 1988-89 Student Forum In the · January 19, 1989 issue of Concordiensis, The Co-Chairperson of the Black and. Latin AI liance of S.tudents was-. referr.ed to as \Nadia Duvalier\. 'It should have read 'Nadia Duvi:laire. Conco·rdiensis sincerely re.grets the mistake. - --- - T s per: goo she our not it rev1 'rne gro the the gen pa1 ent thai has iPSI geii Ye.1 wn ger p()~ oth anc dar all} for futt at 1 q]le II . '

Page· 10 CONCORDIENSIS January 26, 1989 <!tDltfllfbtrnsis Founded at Union College 1877---- New Majors Add Strength On November 23, the Academic Affairs Council voted to add three new majors to the liberal arts program. Aside from tB.e obvim1s beBefits of these Bew subjects as possi<ble majors, tlle new offerings should have a positive effect on the college of liberal arts as a whole. By making these additions, the College is not only providing a greater variety of majors, but also offering a more well rounded liberal arts education ~o liberal arats majors in general. A student majoring in literature, political science of philosophy, for example, stands only to gain by taking,a course that examines issues from a different cultural paradigm. Science and Engineering majors will also benefit from the new disciplines offered as they will have a greater choice of liberal arts courses with which to fulfill liberal learning requirements. Presumably they will be better able to choose courses of sincere interest rather than just signing up for whatever Humanities or Social Science course is open. The new offerings will also be an inducement fo prospective students who arc interested in a solid liberal arts education to attend Union. Hopefully these new studenL'> will add strength and enthusiasm to the liberal arts program. We applaud the addition of these three new majors as they arc an overdue strengthening of the College's liberal arts program. What Happened To Library Plaza Of Old? Tuesday's Gel-Time hearing session proved to be informative. Without intending to estrange the four members of the A.A.C. subcommittee, it seems necessary to comment not only on Gel- Time, but also the method by which Gel- Time is being reviewed. The turn-out at the first session of the hearings was disappointing. Anyone who takes a vested interest in the scheduling system at Union should have been there ... but maybe that's not the real problem. The subcommittee, ironically enough, scheduled both its sessions during 'Gel-Time' classroom slots. So, what that means is if someone couldn't make it to the Tuesday meeting due to a lecture, they won't be able to make it to the Thursday session either. (Think aboat it.) And while this editorial will reach the Union community a few hours before the second session commences, this point should be noted for future reference, particularly if the tum-out is low like Tuesday's. However, all the blame should not be placed on the subcommittee. Undoubtedly, there.were students lounging around in their rooms, in their halls, in their apartments, with free afternoons or even the full day (due to Gel-Time) who could not rationalize heading up to the main campus to simply make a five-minute statement. (Mail, alone, sometimes isn't worth it.) The same holds true for faculty. Why break up a full, free day slotted for research work to trudge up to Social Sciences? Some professors could have been contemplating coming in from home on one of their 'lecture-free' days, but, then again, they're already there two-fifths of the week. All this is hard and biting; however, the truth in these 'exaggerations' is revealed when one stops and looks around at Union today as opposed to two years ago. Amidst all the construction of 1985-86 and 1986-87, the campus was dispersed from Richmond basement to the Nott's basement to Hale House's 'Third Floor'. However, somehow the community seemed to be together more often than it is now, even with the opening of the illustrious College Center (through which the students do make their presence known for five minutes on Mondays and Wednesdays in 10:30 a.m. stampedes to the mail room). Class scheduling has played a major part of this. Don't you miss the bustle in Library Plaza in between the 9:30, 10:30 and 11 :30 lectures? What happened to the statement that everyone walked through the Library Plaza at least once a day? Before, every hour on the half hour, one was sure to find familiar faces, a professor you needed to ask a quick question of, lively conversation, and most importantly, a communal atmosphere-- something that's vital for a small college like Union. 'Library Plaza' and all the connotations behind those two words have vanished as the words 'underpopulated tundra' set in. And this holds true for other parts of the campus. The quality and visibility of a campus atmosphere have fallen several notches. Class scheduling's purpose should not be based solely on factors such as 'opportunities for daytime socializing:' however, anyone who values and misses this atmosphere should consider this point when judging a scheduling system's suitability for Union. LETTERS Student Forum Asks For Voice In Decision-Making To the Editors: Proverbs. Sometimes a good, old, worn out proverb seems to fit where no other words can. In this particular instance, the proverb that applies is \The Straw That Broke the Camel's Back. II The circumstances surrounding this proverb's usage are as follows. The 1988-89 Student Forum rettlrned to school this winter and were surprised to discover, as was the rest of the student body, that the Deans had instituted a tighter social policy. Though the members of the Administration refer to this change as only a small modification to the existing social guidelines, the effects of this new policy, in social terms here at Union, are far reaching. This was an issue that affected all students-- Greeks and independents alike. Yet, as in previous circumstances, the Student Forum was never notified of these changes, nor were we given the opportunity to rcpesent the opinion of the student body in a discussion over the implementation of this policy. Thus, this new policy became the straw that broke Student Forum's back. There were many previous issues that were implemented on behalf of the student body without any previous mention to its members, nor were explanations provided to the Student Forum. This method of \we make the rules, they follow them\ can be self- destructive. In the instance of Gel-Time, it was implemented in spite of overwhelming student disapproval. Furthennore, last year's changes to the cooperative housing programs at both Bronner and Smith House came as a complete surprise to both the expectant residents and the Forum members. This year alone, there have been some important changes made to existing campus policies, yet in each instance, the Student Forum was never notified, nor given a voice in any of these decisions. How can the student body consider the Student Forum a link with the Administration, when the Administration itself, rarely does? The fact of the matter is, the new rules and guidelines were decreed by the Deans. This fall, Greek organizations were informed that they would. no longer be ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEE;DING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE Al.:CEPTED. subsidized for pledge lunches. Greek organizatio11s rep~;esent a substantial amount of the student body. Conseq_uently, an issue of this magnitude, becomes an issue of the Student Forum; ])eth IFC and panhe'llenic representatives came to us to see what we could do. Unfortunately, we were overlooked in this issue entirely. In fact, a..quick check of recent Union llistory will show that several changes \involving food services have taken place without any Student Forum consultation. A disagreement between the AdmiJilistration a!ld the Student For~:~m is NOt beneficial to anyone at Union. Yet, it cannot be expected that the Student Forum sl1.all sit idly while importaat changes are taking place on this campus that affect our lives as well as the rest of the student body. This goes against the fundamental principles set forth in Article [l of the Constitution of the Student Body of Union College which states \The association (Student Fomm) seeks to provide extended channels of communication, increased areas of cooperation. and a greater acceptance of shared responsibility between the faculty, administratioH, and student body in matters of general and academic interest. II We have worked well with the Administration before. On the issue of the student housing lottery system, we supported the changes that led to the current lottery priority structqre. Lately, this and other past achievements have been overlooked. This situation must be remedied if the Student Forum is to continue performing its function of representing the Student Body. We are not simply asking for consideration in future policy decisions, we ar asking for a voice in the decision-making process. We need to work with the Administration in making the decisions that affect our lives. In fact, we invite the Administration to increase interaction with the Student Forum; maybe by increased interaction, the Administration will come to see that we should be included in the decison-making process concerning campus policy. The students of this school have the right to be fairly represented. More importantly, the men and women of Union College have the right to be heard. Respectfully submitted, Robert A. Danziger '89 on behalf of the 1988-89 Student Forum ERRATA I n t he Jan u a ry 1 9 , 1 9 8 9 issue of Concordiensis, The Co-Chairperson of the Black and Latin Alliance of Students was referred 10 as \Nadia Duvalier\. It should have read 'Nadia Duvilaire. Concordiensis sincerely regrets the mistake. - - 1 s per goc she our not it rev 'me gro the the ger pa: ent tha ha~ ins ger Ye Wfl ger po~ oth aD{ dar an) for fUll at · qm I

CONCORDIBNSIS Janut6ry 26, l!J89 · Page U :. ~Gypped''·Generation GROW UP-- To the editors, . Sue· Sbaffer is a wonderf11l person, a 'fine. writer, mid a good friend,. And I do believe she is trapped,_ ~s is most' of olfi\ generation. Yet that trap is · not \set by the eighties\ nor is ' it the end of the sexual rev~lution, the extension of tb.e 'me, me, me' mentality or ~b.e · growth of bureaucracy. Rather the trap that Sue and probably the vast majority of 'ollr · generation' has fallen into is a paralyzing sense ,()f en ti.tlernent. ·True, the feeling that our right to a bright futJ.Ire has been jeopardized hy insensiti-ve and corrupt past g~nerations might be justified. Yet to concentrate on the wrongs done us by past generation~ distracts us frQm p(!)sitive .action. And to blatne others for our lack o:( ,ereativity andrelati:ve apathy is moreof a damnation of ourselves thall a11ything else. It . .would be easy for other generations (past and. future) to then point the finger at us f()r being both lazy an.d qJlerulous. lnste~d of blaming ex,ternaL influences we must recognize what it 'is in oursel~es that · makes us susceptible to being trapped. We have to queslion why we feel cheated,' and recognize that when we claim to have been 'gypped' we acknowledge that we are the victim. In a generalion that seems to value cynicism; .sarcasm, and street smarts, we have broken our own rules when we allow ourself to become victimized. Are we really that helpless?? Do we really make so litLle difference in our world? Can we pos~sibly believe the pitiful ahd destructive statement \Shit Happens\ made popular by our generation? ~ ~ CertaiHly we live in a frightening tim.e. AIDS, terrorism, the destruction of rainforests, the pestilence of drugs, the increase in homeless are not pleasant issues. But to attribute these issues as the scputge of our youth, the grinch who stole our future, is an incredibly egocentric attitude. Sure \we've been left with the short ·end of the stick\ THE ·NEW ROCK & ROLL .. DUTCH H-OLLOW . . HOURS: 5-11 EVERYDAY Come visit us at the College. Center or Call for free delivery ... 310·6060·'$.5.90 minimum or a small pizza , ·--------------------------------~ I $1.00 off coupon for PIZZA DELIVERIES ON'LY l t.. .......... -- .._ ............. -. - --. ._ .... - - \11!'L ...... -- \\!\- -- .............. -- - ..... - ._ ._ ..:... ..... ._ ,...., ' ' which Sue would have you believe, we don't deserve. Did our .parents deserve the Vietnam War? Our grandparents World War II? Perhaps it's a bit of pre- gradua:Hon jitters and the recognition that I'm off to the real world in June, whi:ch makes me ask aU of 'my generation' to grow up. The world does not revolve around us; bUieauracies do not exist merely to \run our lives.\ World events have not insulted us. New technologies have not been i11vented to rtiake us feel uncomfortable. Please recognize the many serious problems that confroFJt us. It's o.k. to feel scared. Artd, if your anger is directed positively, it's o.k. to be angry. But if you feel gypped then you're focusing on yoursetf, and the mind that might have found an answer instead cries, thrashing in indignation, lanquishing in the steel barbed trap of wallowing self pity, and insulted expectations. .Sincerely, Katie Boyd '89 LETTERS 'Student' Center Moves In Right Direction To the Editors: calendar; dedicated bulletin board space for dub~; a On behalf of the student, movable, Iightahle stage; a faculty and administrative permanent large-screen TV. members of.thc Student Affairs M· k· . . ,· ·h·· k , 1 C . 1 I 1 .d J'k . . a c your v.Js ec, nov. n . . OUDCI ., • WOU · · I e tO W , ·]d ·h· ]] r · d · · d J .·. Cl· k .. d th c wou c. a cngc stu cnts comrncn ern ar an e and the Center staff to wor.k staff of the Student Ccn_tcr for - together to help the bulding the recent changes. ~ovmg th~ live up to its potential a~ a game room downstaus where 1t is both easier and more fun to crossroads of the campu<;, and a use is a step in the right ~cnt:r. for tho_s; _l~ng sought ' direction. Among s·uggestons social alternaU\CS. we have heard for further changes at the Center are: a lar_ge all-campus events Doug Klein, Chair StudGnt Affairs Cou!lcil A MESSAGE FROM THE COMPTf3·0LLER'S OFFICE TO ALL STUDENTS Avoid long lines and a cold walk to the administration building by taking advantage of the CASHIER'S MAIL SLOT (next to the mailroom) for making telephone or tuition payments. Remember to include I.D. Number and to identify payment made. NO CASH PLEASE. DATE: SIT:E: UPCOMING BlOODMOBILES FOR 3 DAYS AT UNION COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, 'FEBRUARY 22, 1989 Fox Lounge at F·ox House HOURS: Sponsored by DATE: SITE.: HOURS: 11 :30 am to 5:30 pm. . . Beta Theta Pi For Appointment Call: Chris Marmo, 393-2935 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1989 Fox Lounge at. Fox House Sponsored 11 :30 am to 5:30pm by Alpha E:psilon Pi For Appointment Call: David Kohl, 386-4209 DATE: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2.4, 1989 SITE: Fox Lounge at Fox House HOURS: 11 :30 am to 5:30pm Sponsored by Kappa Sigma For Appointment Call: Keith Bemis, 374-3239 PLEASE CALL CONTACT PeRSON FOB APPOINTMENT; ALSO S}GN-UP SHEETS WILL BE AVAILABLE IN COLLEGE CENTER STUDENT ACTIVITIES ROOM 408. . c .. \

CONCORDIENSJS January 26, 1989 Page 11 LETTERS \Gypped\ Generation GRO,W UP 'Student' Center Moves In Right Direction To the editors, Sue Shaffer is a wonderful person, a fine writer, and a good friend. And I do believe she is trapped, as is most of our generation. Yet that trap is not \set by the eighties\ nor is it the end of the sexual revolution, the extension of the 'me, me, me' mentality or the growth of bureaucracy. Rather the trap that Sue and probably the vast majority of 'our generation' has fallen imo is a paralyzing sense of entitlement. True, the feeling that our right to a bright future has been jeopardized by insensitive and corrupt past generations might be justified. Yet to concentrate on the wrongs done us by past generations distracts us from positive action. And to blame others for our lack of creativity and relative apathy is more of a damnation of ourselves than anything else. It would be easy for other generations (past and future) to then point the finger at us for being both lazy and querulous. Instead of blaming external influences we must recognize what it is in ourselves that makes as susceptible to being trapped. We have to question why we feel cheated, and recognize that when we claim to have been 'gypped' we acknowledge that we arc the victim. In a generation that seems to value cynicism, sarcasm, and street smarts, we have brokeR our own rules when we allow ourself to become victimized. Are we really that helpless?? Do we really make so little difference in our world? Can we possibly believe the pitiful and destructive statement \Shit Happens\ made popular by our generation? Certainly we live in a frightening time. AIDS, terrorism, the destruction of rainforests, the ~estilence of drugs, the increase in homeless are not pleasant issues. But to attribute these issues as the scourge of our youth, the grinch who stole our future, is an incredibly egocentric attitude. Sure \we've been left with the short end of the stick\ THE NEW ROCK & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW HOURS: 5-11 EVERYDAY Come visit us at the College Center or Call for free delivery ... 370-6060 $5.00 minimum or a small pizza -----------~--~~---------~-------~ I $1.00 off coupon for PIZZA DELIVERIES ON·L Y I ~-~~-----------------------------' which Sue would have you believe, we don't deserve. Did our parents deserve the Vietnam War? Our grandparents World War II? Perhaps it's a bit of pre- graduation jitters and the recognition that I'm off to the real world in June, which makes me ask all of 'my generation' to grow up. The world does not revolve around us; hureauracies do not exist merely to \run our lives.\ World events have not insulted us. New technologies have not been invented to make us feel uncomfortable. Please recognize the many serious proble1ns that confront us. It's o.k. to t'ecl scared. And, if your anger is directed positively, it's o.k. to be angry. But if you feel gypped then you're focusing on yourself, and the mind that might have found an answer instead cries, thrashing in indignation, lanquishing in the steel barbed trap of wallowing self pity, and insulted expectations. Sincerely, Katie Boyd '89 To the Editors: On behalf of the student, faculty and admiNistrati vc members of the Student Affairs Council, I would like to commend Jerri Clark and the staff of the Student Center for - the rcceHt changes. Moving the game room downstairs where it is both easier and more fun to use is a step in the right direction. Among suggcstons we have heard for further changes at the Center are: a lar_ge all-campus ~vents calendar; dedicated hul let in board <;pace for club~; a movable, lightahlc <,tagc; a permanent largc-<;c.:rccn TV. Make your wi~hc~ known~ We would challenge ~tudent'> and the Ccn tcr '>tuff to work together to help the huluing live up to i h potential a\ a cro<,<;roalls of the campu'>, :mel a center for tho<,e l<mg '>Ought \social alternative\ ... Doug K kin. Cha1r Student Affair-, Cuunul A MESSAGE FROM THE COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE TO ALL STU DENTS Avoid long lines and a cold walk to the administration building by taking advantage of the CASHIER'S MAIL SLOT (next to the mailroom) for making telephone or tuition payments. Remember to include I.D. Number and to identify payment made. NO CASH PLEASE. DATE: SITE: UPCOMING BLOODMOBILES FOR 3 DAYS AT UNION COLLEGE WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1989 Fox Lounge at Fox House IIIII I IIIII 11 :30 am to 5:30 pm Beta Theta Pi For Appointment Call: Chris Marmo, 393-2935 HOURS: Sponsored by DATE: SITE: HOURS: Sponsored by Alpha THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1989 Fox Lounge at Fox House 11 :30 am to 5:30 pm Epsilon Pi For Appointment Call: David Kohl, 386-4209 DATE: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1989 SITE: Fox Lounge at Fox House HOURS: 11 :30 am to 5:30 pm Sponsored by Kappa Sigma For Appointment Call: Keith Bemis. 374-3239 PLEASE CALL CONTACT PERSON FOR APPOINTMENT; ALSO SIGN-UP SHEETS WILL BE AVAILABLE IN COLLEGE CENTER STUDENT ACTIVITIES ROOM 408.

! Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS January 26, 1989 Biology AIDS By GERLINDE GUKELBERGER When some months ago I had a glance at a Scientific American issue, which had AIDS as a topic, I saw a picture of the Burk family and read what had happened to them .. The father was a h~muphiliac and had contracted H IV from a tranfusion. In the beginning he was not aware of the infection and transmitted the infection to his pregnant wife. In this way their son also became infected. The parents died some time ago. It is not sure how long their son will be alive. Their daughter is the only family member who wiU be left behind, otherwise the virus would have killed the whole family. We all know that AIDS is of pressing importance at the present time. Researchers became aware of it in the early 1980's. In the last years AIDS has been spreading all over the world. Not long ago, researchers from Hatvard Medical School and Biogen, Inc., of Cambridge ·have reported that they found evidence of beneficial effects of an AIDS drug called Receptine in primates. Up\to now there is no cure for AIDS. What do we know about this disease at the present time? AlDS is caused by the immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and, as the name implies, the virus causes a predictable chain of immune function disarrangemnts with AIDS. as. tbe last link. It is associated with brain disease and several types of cancer. HIV can be spread by blood, for example by a contaminated needle of an addict, during blood transfusions, by sexual intercourse, and from a mother on to her unborn child or her ~uckling baby. Perhaps thcr are some not yet known ways to transmil AIDS. The HIV virus btlongs to a family of viruses called retrovirus .and is c hatactcr'i· zed by spec ia 1 features. What is retrovirus·~ A retrovi111s is a sphere covered by a membrane. The membrane is made l:'P of two layers of fatty ma.terial. Glycoproteins (proteins with sugar chaiHs attached) are also present in the membrane. It has a nucleus, RNA (R.ibonucleinacid) and enzymes (proteins). In a body cell the genetic material is DNA (Desoxyribonucleinacid). If genes are expressed, i.e. when the proteinbiosynthesis is started, in a body cell, the first step is that DNA is transcribed to mRNA (messenger Ribonucleinacid). This mRNA serves as a template during the second. step, the production of proteins. Not so for a retrovirus. Its genetic material is RNA and therefore a conversion process of RNA to DNA is necessary to start the protein production machinery. The AIDS virus has a special tool for this reversion, an enzyme caUed reverse transciptase. As soon as the reversion is finished, the production of virus-own proteins can be started. The THE BIOLOGY QEPARTMENT AND BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT: Clark A.· Llndgren De:partment Of Neurobiology Duke University Medical Center 'THE ROLE OF CALCIUM IN SYNAPTIC T.RANSMISSION: THE LIZARD NEUROMUSCULAR JUNCTION: Wednesday, February 1, 1989 4:40 PM Social~ Sciences Rm 112 Refreshments 4:30 Dr. Lindgren is a candidate for a faculty position in the Biology Department. I SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Of virus literally exploits the cell. Before I describe what happens wi-thin the ceil, we have to understand the way the virus enters the host cell. The virus is not able to propagate or do any damage untit it enters a host celL The virus-caused infection starts with the binding of the virus particle to the host cell, strictly to the CD4 molecule on the host's cell membrane. The CD4 molecule interacts with a protein of the virus called gp120 {gp == glycoprotein because the molecule consists of protein.with a .sugar chain). Therefore gp120 is crucial to HIV's ability to infect molecules. The next step is not ;;ompletely elucidated, but the most likely Version is that IllV ~n ters the cell by fusing directly with the cell membrane. Then the binding of gp120 to CD 4 would cause a change in the shape of the gp120 protein, thereby revealing part of another normally hidden virus protein, gp41. Gp41 prefers being imbedded in the cell membrane instead of being in contact with the solution surrounding the cell. The p:l'Otein gp41 interacts with the adjacent host cell membrane and enforces the fusion of the hos-t cell membrane with th~ virus cell membrane or more exactly, with lhe outer coat of PRO·BLEM OF THE WEEK Prove that if the product or n positive numbers is 1, th.en the sum of these numbers i·s greater than or equal ton. · Congratulations to Laszl:o. Boroczky,. who won last wee:k's ten dollar prize, and to J:esse HuH, who also submitted a correct solution. lf you are in Bailey Hall, stop by the bulletin board outside room 106 to see a correct solution to last week's proble!Tl. .lhe virus RNA and all virus enzymes are enabled to invade enzymes are enabled to invade the host cell cytoplasm (the inner part of the cell) .. The next step ·'is the reversion process. RNA is used as a template to assemble a corresponding molecule of DNA. This DNA molecule is able to travel to the host cell nucleus. A virus enzyme integrates the HIV - DNA into the h()st's cell DNA. From thts moment on the genetic material of the virus is duplicated each time the cells own genetic material is duplicated. The result is permanent infeetion. A retrovirus can integrate into the genetic material of ~ body cell, where it can lie dormant, inextricable from the cell and invisibLe from the inunune sy.s.tem until stimulation by a secondary infection occurs_ The. virus is able to destroy the ceJI by a burst of reproclaction, each time producing a new generation of viruses which escape from the c:ell by riddling the cellular membrane with holes. Depending on the spee£1: of the process, 11Ie cell may be undamaged, paralyzed, or ruptured. TIM chronic overexposure t() virus protein causes the immme. system to breakdown. What kinds of cells are affected by the illY virus? We know that the CD4. molecule is necessary for t'he. infection. That means we sllould have a· closer look. on. which cells Continued:· oan page t3 ORK IN.-TH . WILDERNESS .. .(\ ~ _:.;· ·! .• ~:: .~: ~ . • ~.. . · .. ~...... ,, Adirondack .Mountain Club SUMMER JO:BS Applications are now available for 1989 summer jobs in the Adiror;}dack Fork. The deadline is February l5, 1989. The Adirondack Mountain Club (ADK) is. a non-profit organization of ov;er 14.000 members dedicated to the preservation and enjoyment of New York's wild lands. Each summer the Club hires 35 seasonal employees to malnt<lin trails, provide backcountry education and operate two mountain lodges in the Adirondack High Peaks. All of these positions require a strong outdoor orientation and public seNice skins. The demanding yet satisfYing nature of the work typically attracts outgoing, highlY motivated •ndividuals. Benefits include room and board, a modest salary, and a great setting In which to spend the summer. . ' For more information and on .application, send a self-addressed, stamped legal envelope to: ADIRONDACK MOUNTAIN CLUB P .0; Box 867, Applications · Lake PlaCid, New York 12946 (518) 523-3441

. !;ONCORDJENS1S · Jqnuary 26, 1989 rage 13 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY The Fabric Of The ·Future By KEVIN GARDNER used as ·a 'li11er. The problems associated witl't clay are, 1: holes can fo.Fm~ clue to acids created in tin >ktnd.fifl, which will give the leachate an escape route into the groundwater, and 2: the da.y lay€r must be at . least three fe~t thick, which' takes space t:bat could be used for housing waste. Also, the proper-clay may not be readily available, and may have to be trucked a great distance. \Geofrabics give a leak-proof seal that is eco11omical and will safely house municipal, industrial; hazardous, and even some radioactive wastes. ln the realm of Civil Engineering, .geosynth€tics ate the way of the future. Contamination of groundwater from landfiH leachate can be eliminated using geomembranes. The repair of old dams aNd the construction of new dams will in most cases employ geogahri cs for waterproofing. Geos_ymhetics are ~being used for stabilizing soft, marshy soils so that roads and bridges can be bult. Geosymhetics are also being used to combat frost upheaval, which causes road detcrioratOn (potholes}, and- c.osts the govern.ment and tax.payer a pretty ~enny each year. Earth dams are another application in which geosynthetics are beginning to be used extensively. Typically, A Geosynthetic fabric that saved the 360 foot Paradela Dam in Portugal. Geosynthetic liners are becoming an economical and very effective sollltion to preventing groundwater p·ollution. For many years, liners underneath landfills have been considered necessary. Until recently, clay has been · the core of a dam is made of relatively impermeable material, i.e. <:la.ys and silts. While geosyntlletics may not always be the best solution, at sites where clay~ are not readily available, they are a ·good alternative. America is now looking to Europe where geotextiles are used extensively in dam renovation. Since tlle 360-foot l1igh Paradela Dam in Portugal was coriStructed, it leaked 132 gallons of water every second. For 25 years conventional sealing methods were applied and failed. In 1981 a gcotcxtilc fabric was applied (over 18 acres), and has reduced the· leakage to \four gallons per second. Stories relating the success of gcofabrics abound from Europe, and, as sluggish as America is, geofabrics will soon be under lamJfills, over and in the middle of dan~, undcmcalh your basement ami your street, and under the pond you had made in your front yard. All that from something less than one mi llirnctcr thick. Imagine that. HEALTH &:YOUR Biology of AIDS • • • ' ] ., ., I :: I i 'l ' j ! ,. I I I I c Continued from page 12 CD4 is. present in the membraite: If we do that we'll liv.d_ .~at ~!?. ,CD4gantigen is found J)'rimarily on cells of the munchies immediately following irnmupe system called helper-T cells. These play a central role in regulating the immune system for immune response. The immune system includes two classes of cells called T- lymphocytes and B- ~ .. .. . DATF;: F.ebruary 16~ .1'989 . PLACE: Hale House ;!f\M.i\' ~ . -. . ' .... ~ ' ' .. OPEN-~~~ALL:STAFR :· ,. . . ' . . . ' ' ,_ FACUL~-.& STUDENTS •:-;'· ;; ~ymph<>cytes. Lymphocytes are \ , )fie pells of the immune system . \. · thl:tt mediate recognition, 'f4 ·' ·· , cells prepare other cells ,:to • attacK: invading organisms. If -, · ,,.,:,,\ ' BARNARD coLLEGE .. cmGA:r£ ut-Ji~·ERm'r .. coRNEtUJNIVERsJn !: I I · HAMtll'ON COtlECE..MANHATTAN COU;EGE .. ST. L-\WRi:NCElJNtVERSJlY .. UNION COLLEGE ·:~; -: [p~ ·~~· JJJl © ~ ~AM ~ ~:] . Summer 1989 Student Research Opportunities i. I A unique opportunity to gain rese-arch experience ·with a faculty mentor and work with students from other ·colleges and universiti~s at one of the following institutions: Barnard College • Hamilton Ct;llege. Colgate University ~ Manhattan Col(ege .. Cornell Unh'ersity • SaintLawrmce University • Unio11 C(J/lege • 10 WEEK SUI'! MER PROGRAM $2,000.00 STIP£:\D PLYS $:500.0il TRA VEVHOUSI~(; EXPENSES 1-'0R AN APPLICATION OR FOR FURl'HER I}ETAILS, CONTACT YOUR INS.TITUT!ONAL REPRESENTATIVE: DEAN WEINER - J10~6233 Or call CORNELLUNIVER~JTY 607-255M2710 - ... ::·.:· ·- :•:\-- . ' ' ' ·:, ' BARNARD COllEGE •• COL<iAlt liNIVERSITY •• COitNEU.UNIVERSIT'r' II - · HAMilTON COLLECE .. MANHATIAN COlLEGE .• ST. LAWRENCE l.JNIVE.RSITY •• l!NION COI.HGE . ::.:' \. - ~. ' ' I there IS an infection, macrophages {which belong to the immune system) secrete a ,protein (interl~ukin) and present an 'antigen (a protein from the invading ,organism)to the T4 cell, This causes activation of the T4 cells. \Sleeping genes\ are not awake and active and substances are produced that stimulate the maturation of another rnain class of lymphocytes: 'R cells. When a B cell matures, it differentiates into a plasma cell that ~ecretes antibodies. T!Ie T4 cells also trigger the T8 cell function. The T8 cells attack and kill cells infected by pathogenes (ill-making substances), If the infection stops the further maturation of B- and T8, cells will be suppressed. The T4 cells proliferate into a large number of equal memory cells that circulate in the blood. The memory cells are ready to recognize a specific antigen. The virus cannot only be found in T~lymphocytes but also in cells of the nervous system (glial cells of the brain), intestine, arid in bone-marrow cells. Tlfe HIV virus causes a depletion of helper T-cells. If the A:IDS patient doesn't have enough functioning helper T- cells, he will become susceptible to other infections and cancers, for example, Karposi sarcoma (a tumor of blood-vessel tissue in the skin or internal organ). Moreover, the intelligence quotient (IQ) ·normally falls as a result of the disease. Since 1984 rcseachers know that HIV causes AIDS. They immediately started the search for an appropriate vaccine. But retroviruses confronted them from the beginning with problems. What kinds of problems they had to face and which kinds of therapies are now available will he described in the second part of this article. Look for Circ[e 1(s Valentine Flower Sale February 1--.11 10:00 - 6:00pm in West and the College Center ..

Page 14 C()NCORDIENSIS January 2.6, 1989 .. - . ARTS. & ENTERTAINMEN'T . . The Milkmen Of Sour Grapes ··· ' .... i .;~·i\~~-;~t*' \'~·· . . By JOHN S. MORGAN Sure the most likely placet() find a Dead Milkmen album is in a record -store, but in which· section? I would recommend that the \Folk/Rock\ secti()n be eschewed and that \Novelty Sounds n be consulted. After all, this foursome from Philadelphia goes well beyond quirky. Song for Hugo Wolf My eyes blossom kind thoughts & serene senses while choirs echo a thrush's dance; I sit and wonder to the stars of it all, this great plenty I am enjoying, the leaderless love l.OR!l MANIAC Dead Milkmen In terms of musical accomplishment, p.eople have been known to coQgh more smoothly than Rodney Anonymous croons, and the Milkmen's instrumentation is kept simple to hide deficiencies that are nDtieeabte anyway. Bllt . . it is not as if this matters within the context of Beelzebub.ba, or any of the band's previous three releases. forlorn of spite or anything else of a complicated spirit- Thy mind still, a frequent pessimist also enjoys a sojourn every now and then, from mysterious mists of ideals and the inflated tradition of nothingnesses. As the songs sail through air unabashed, may this kind fever endure, a quiet contention for my heart, · a surrender I shall not be mel~ncholy, nor bitter by J()se Andmde t.)EJ\N Gl£AN The Milktne.n base. their claim to fame upon the playful lyrics .of such .songs as· \Bitchin' Camara\ \The Thing That Only Eats Hippies\ and· \Instant Club Bit\. This is not substantial music, aad it couldn't come olose to· breaking . new musical ground with a ten- foot pole. But, again. this is far from important where this bandisconcerned. : People either hate the Dead Milkmen on their own terms, or love them on terms that the Exhibit Social Science. Faculty Lounge Art (?a fiery KIM QUIRK JAPANESE BRUSH PAINTINGS band sets. The band ;ptQ..dpces basic quitar- bass· drums.'far~ .•. and they .hat!3. ~he Euro-synth sound-- mcrlci.n&. thi~ perfectly , clear in \Club Hit\ which pokes fuJi at BMk of Lov:e; The Communar<;ts, and. D~peche \Commode\. Beez.:Ieb-ubb~. · .:featur~·s · \Punk Rock Girl\ which win sound familiar to any and aU that have h~ar.d tbe Dead Milkmen before. Tire song includes a \bad guitar solo''~that's what it,says right on the lyric shee~and lyric's with a-satirical bent:: 1 'Sh:e took me to her parents for a Sunday meal!lkr- father took·one·look at me and began to squeal/Punk rock gid, it make·s .n() sertse/Y'our , dad is a vice president/Rich as the Duke of Earl/Yeah, you're for me, punk rock girl.'', This ·is ·not: music for brain ~urgeons, but it is fun, violent and, sometimes, not 'flill:ike an air raid warning. Repeated ' listen1ngs can Q.ecome a problem for such unvaried music, but th.e band's devotees .seem to :find new twists where others do not Beelzeb1Jbba does better than· their previous albums· with· respect to variation. but along the lines of \Punk: Rock Girl\ are \Brat in the frat\ and \My Many Smells\. llike tti~ record for tHe. number, of times that. I have heard it. I do recommend giving it a listen. but I wouldn't go so far as tt>- advocate dipping into the beer money to buy it. • l FRIDAY .. .' Union College Arts·· , Studi:o. 7:3'0. · M~sic of North India by Steve Gorn, ,, Ray SpiegeL 'FRIDAY·... ·'. RPI ... McNiel Room. 276-8585 Johnny \Clyde'' > .. Copeland blues guitarist. FRL,SAT., ... 'Cafe Lena. 583~0022 Folk artist'Gary Ni.chols, Germ ana Pucci. .. · SATUR.DAY, ... ._,, '. .Proctors Sa2-2884.~ Bea~ty and the Beast . \ SUNDAY ... Proctors Albany institute of'· History & Art. 463-4478 · ''Egypy Day\ . ··WEDNESDAY·.- • .: ':'· Performing Arts Center ·at University of Albany. Pulit4er Prize Winning · . Poet Gyendolyn Brooks ·to read. WINTERFEST CABARET IS COMING! anyone .interested in performing (Feb. 9th) CaU S.uzarlne LacheHer 374-2483 . CRBBRET Featuring: DDTHlD• YET 10 Pm THUBSDB~, JRD. 26 C.C. ATRIUin • - • I • •

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS January 26, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The Milkmen Of Sour Grapes if) 0 0: 0 (.) UJ a: ~ ~ z UJ LL 0 ~ UJ l:i: :::> 0 (.) § I c.. By JOHN S. MORGAN Sure the most likely place to find a Dead Milkmen album is in a record store, but in which section? I would recommend that the \Folk/Rock\ section be eschewed and that \Novelty Sounds\ be consulted. After all, this foursome from Philadelphia goes well beyond quirky. Dead Milkmen In terms of musical accomplishment, people have been known to cough more smoothly than Rodney Anon:yrnous croons, and the Milkmen's instrumentation is kept simple to hide deficiencies that are noticeable anyway. But it is not as if this matters within the context of Reelz~bubba, or any of the band's previous three releases. Idol Chatter Song for Hugo Wolf My eyes blossom kind thoughts & serene senses while choirs echo a thrush's dance; I sit and wonder to the stars of it all, this great plenty I am enjoying, the leaderless love 'I! -u:' Mu.rSIC: of. forlorn of spite or anything else of a complicated spirit- Thy mind still, a frequent pessimist also enjoys a sojoum every now and then, from mysterious mists of ideals and ~he inflated tradition of nothingnesscs. As the songs sail through air unabashed, may this kind fever endure, a quiet contention for my heart, a surrender I shall not be melancholy, nor bitter by Jose Andrade ·'/(j; .:;:;.. _ . .,a-~- The Milkmen base their claim to fame upon the playful lyrics of such songs as \Bitchin' Camaro\ \The Thing That Only Eats Hippies\ and \Instant Club Hit\. This is not substantial music, and it couldn't come close to breaking new musical ground with a ten- foot pole. But, again, this is far from important where this band is concerned. : People either hate the Dead Milkmen on their own terms, or love them on terms that the band sets. The band produces basic q11itar- bass- drums fare, and they hate the Euro-synth sound-- making th.is perfectly clear in \Club Hit\ which pokes fun at Book of Love, The Communards, and Deped1e \Commode\. Beezlebubba features \Punk Rock Girl\ which will sound familiar to any and all that have heard the Dead Milkmen before. The soNg includes a \bad guitar solo\-that's what it says right on the lyric sheet-and lyrics with a satirical bent: \She took me to her parents for a Sunday meal/Her father took one look at me and began to squeal/Punk rock girl, it makes no sense/Your dad is a vice president/Rich as the Duke of Earl/Yeah, you're for me, punk rock girl.\ This is not music for brain surgeons, but it is fun, violent and, sometimes, not unlike an air raid warning. Repeated listenings can become a problem for such unvaried music, but the band's devotees seem to find new twists where others do not. Beelzebubba does better than their previous albums with respect to variation, but along the lines of \Punk Rock Girl\ are \Brat in the Frat\ and \My Many Smells\. I like the record for the number of times that I have heard it. I do recommend giving it a listen, but I wouldn't go so far as to advocate dipping. into the beer money to buy it. FHIDAY ... Union College Arts Studio. 7:3'0. Music of North lnd ia by Sfeve Gorn, Ray Spiegel. FR:IDAY ... RPI ... McNiel Room. 276-8585 Johnny \Clyde\ Copeland blues guitarist. FRI., SAT., ... Cafe Lena. 583-0022 Folk artist Gary Nichols, Germana Pucci. SATURDAY ... Proctors 382-2884. Beauty and the Beast SUNDAY ... Proctors Albany instit~te of History & Art. 463-4478 \Egypy Day\ WEDNESDAY ... Performing Arts Center at University of Albany. Pulitzer Prize Winning Poet Gyendolyn Brooks to read. · · A ire.ap:~oll~~~ut .,JZ~vi~w I · · · '· . · ·· ;!j;:tfii-· •''lralt~t Hatlte, ass~eiate·J!ro~~S~HDr of,tatt~A:P:Y:()li)~ wrto W!O:ttt·d lik~ 1;~ comment o~ P~o~ ~atk~~s t~~~hing.,;l)ainterlJL.~.9·t~~itJr;.or .. college sefV!ee IS UlVlted ~o proVlde wr1tt~n or Qral testimony to the rev1ew como:tH~ttee·~ ~lease c<:Jntact Daniel.Robbins in the Arts Building by Febrtt~iW 10,19$9. . · · : · · · ·· .• ~:''''··' ,. - ' '•' ·. },. --,:_- . Exhibit Social Science Faculty Lounge Art Gallery KIM QUIRK JAPANESE BRUSH PAINTINGS WINTERFEST CABARET IS COMING! anyone interested in performing (Feb. 9th) Call Suzanne Lachelier 37 4-2483 CRBRRET Featuring: DOTHin· YET 1 D Pm THDRSDRY:, Jan. 26 C.C. BTRIUm I . II I ( ( 1

. CONCORIJIENSIS Ja.nl{ary 26, _· 1989 Page 15 ART'S & .. ENTERTAINMENT ' - - . - - - . I ' ''K-.Mart Sucks'' By CAMRRON KENNY . Arts . editor Raymond Babl>it {Dustin Hoffman) is. an. autistic savant with exceptional abilities. He can memorize the phone book, count fallen toothpicks with unbelievable s-peed,, and accomplish advanced mathematics without the benefit of a calculator. Yet despite these extraordinary ' talents, Raymond cannot tnak:e change of a dollar, cannot even make eye, contact, and most importantly, is incapable of forming any \POrmal\ human relationship. As intriguing as Hoffman's character _appe8ts however, the focus of \Rainman the recent blockbuste:r directeQ. by Barry Levinson (J)iner; Tirt Men), is the character played surprisingly · well by Tom Cruise. Cruise is Charlie Babbitt, Raymond's younger brother, whose unexpected discove:ry of Raymond leads to a personal transformation. Formerly an aggressive and largely insensitive con man, Cha,lie matures thro1:1gh his relationship with his long lost brother and begins to explore . the ·depths of dependence and commitment to another individual, ,Particularly difficult with one as. unusual as Raymond. Most of the perfomlqnces in \Rainman\ are excellent, and Dustin Hoffman in particular is tettific.-- (In fact, Hoffman predicted in a recent interview ·that Raymond Babbitt and Ratso Rizzo are the two roles 'he will be remembered for.) Aside from the acting, how-ever, \Rainman's\ greatest strength is its plot. ·The original script went through countless revisions and a large assortment of writers and directors (including Steven Spielberg. who had to give up the praject to film. th~ final Indiana Jones movie} before filming began: Yet the final result is remarkably cohesive, . · and, rnost importantly, it · consistently re:sists the temptation to provide easy answers and umealistically tidy conclusions. The film's. ability to avoid sentimentality while remaining effective is a difficult bahmce which Levinson handles . characteristically well. And . although \Rainman\ is not without some shoddy moments (;such as the one wbere Hoffman and Cruise's girlfriend dance in a Las Vegas elevator), it is an interesting and well~ done movie, and definitely worth taking a look at. B+/A- Pre-Super Bowl Symphony!! By MEG PARSONS - This ·Sunday afternoon in a pre-Super Bowl dose of culture, the eUnion College Chamber Orcliestra performed its Winter Concert under the direction of p,rofessor Hilary Tann. The orchestra,\ witlt. Ed''Lirl ·~89 as .concertmaster. played · three works for a receptive audience in the Memorial Chapel. energy. The trumpet section proved an especially strong par~ of the group with a nice clear sound throughout. The next piece was the Concerto in D Major. by F.J. Haydn with piano soloist Cathy Lee '9l. Tb-i:s well known, piece was· nicely performed overl;llL Miss Lee played impressively if not a bit mechanically due to the ... r·-.. the best Here, the orchestra captured a truly full 'BeeJhovenesque' sound. In the other movements there were moments which could have been prought to life perhaps by Professor Tann elevating her own , ene-:vgy-. lev:el .. while conducting. In the sec:ond movement, Adagio, the airy melody was sometimes lost by teG,hnical difficulty of the work. the winds bringing down the The first of these works was· The piano solo worked quite light sound rather than The Cali.p.h of Bagdad: well with the orchestra, one supporting it. Th.e third composed by B.A. Boieldieu reflecting the motif of the other movement, Allegro vivace, (1775-1834). This unfamiliar· with deft precision; restored the lost energy of the piece was interesting; almost previous movement and Whimsical in its range of style The third, work was the successfully led into the fourth. from its sweet melody to its· Symphony No. 4 in B Major Overall the concert was an suddenly aggressive sections; a by L. van Beethoven. Of the entertaining success and a nice very exciting piece of music four movements, the last, way to dispel the Sunday with surprising bursts of· Allegro ma non troppo, was afternoon on-campus doldrurns. *******************************************~ T'he··wRUC . \' New 8.97 . ' . Who wiH enjoy a lqn€)er honeymoon, the kinder, gentler President. or the jangly Athenians? Tune in to this very space next week to find out how R.E.M .. fares. You wonit find George H.W. Bush:s favorability ratings accurate to two decimal digits. _ . ·No. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. - 8.97 Artist R.EM. . The Replacements (12\-) Violent Femmes* Vetvet Elvis Lou Reed* The· Feelies(12,.)* The Saints Marc Almond* The Pegues (12\)*. *First Week on \he 8.97 Album Green I'll Be You 3 . Velvet Elvi·s New Yotk Higher Ground Prodigal Son The Stars We Are Yeah, Yeah, Yeah Label Warner Si.re Slash Enigma Sire A&M TVT Capitol Island ·Eyebrow raising sone of the Week: The Vandals - \Clowns Are Experts\ PROGRAMMING NOTES: Upcoming hockey broadcasts on 89.7 FM; pre-game shows start ·at 7:00 p.m.: Tonight at No.rth Adams; Saturday against Merrimack; Tuesday against Williams. This Sunday the topic of ' 1 The Bottom Line\ will be Bulemia. , Bob Mason and Bi-ll Sheehan are the embodiment of what radio needs to be saved from. By the way, all radio stations are electric, ' Compiled by Ron·Eugenio and John S. Morgan *****************************·**************=~ .. HOROSCOPE by 'j(' Capricorn Avoid late night gossip sessions. Loose lips sink ships and if you're not careful you'll destroy the whole fleet. Aquarius So01etirnes simple things are the best. But not this week, Think Paris, Ferraris and diamonds. Invest in a couple lottery tickets. Pisces Bodily noises are funny, sometimes. Be careful or that bekh might turn off a perspective squee~e. Aries Lig:hten up! Everyone has a lot of work, mid- r- terms. You're not alone! APlus shouldn't be a substitue for a human friend. Tau;rus Have. you: ever been in the Nott? .You don't know what you're missing ... possfbly the line you need to pick up that fox at the next party ... \You ever been in Ure N<>tt?\ , ,..~.:--· \,;IC::IHU&L Tomght the new social policy won't cramp your social life!· Be crazy, you can even get away with wearing that obnoxiQus sweater you got over break. Cancer Remember your roominate! Suprise gifts. unsolicited compliments will make your week alot more pleasant. LetJ Check your mailbox every day. Carefully. Important news is coming. Maybe. Virgo You don't need snow for your wild winter activities. Cool Whip will be a fine substitute. Lihra · - Relationships are a lot like computers. Remeber to Save. Think Saturday! Scorpio · Finally world recognition and acclaim will be yours. They should have been your years ago. We all I than:k ~ou fo~ your patience. : ... ~~g~tt~n~. - . . Study. Study .. Study. And you used to swear by your Horoscopes. Rain Man MOHAWK CINEMAS 4:45 Accid€ntal Tourist 4:55 7:20 9:45 7:25 9:50 ' Mississippi Burning 4:40 7:00 9:30 ( Twins 5:0() Oliv€r& Co. 5:50 Dirty Rotten Scoundrels Naked Gun I ·Talk Radio 5:55 5:00 7:35 7:50 a:oo 7:10 10:00 9:55 9:50 9:35 WINTER FEST -15 CQ.MING! {·

CONCORDIENSIS January 26, 1989 Page 15 ____________ A_R_T_S __ &_E_N_T_E_R_T_A __ IN_M_·_EN __ T _______ ~~;J:= ' \K-Mart Sucks\ By CAM:ERON KENNY Arts Editor Raymond Babbit (Dustin Hoffman) is an autistic savant with exceptional abilities. He can memorize the phone book, count fallen toothpicks with unbelievable speed, and accomplish advaNced mathematics without the benefit of a calculator. Yet despite these extraordinary talents, Raymond cannot make change of a dollar, cannot even make eye contact, and most importantly, is incapable of forming any \normal\ human relationship. As intriguing as Hoffman's character appears however, the focus of \Rainman the recent blockbuster directed by Barry Levinson (Diner, Tin Men), is the character played surprisingly well by Tom Cruise. Cruise is Charlie Babbitt, Raymond's younger brother, whose unexpected discovery of Raymond leads to a personal transformation. Formerly an aggressive and largely insensitive con man, Cha,rlie matures through his relationship with his long lost brother and begins to explore the depths of dependence and commitment to another individual, particularly difficult with one as unusual as Raymond. Most of the performances in \Rainman\ are excellent, and Dustin Hoffman in particular is terrific. (In fact, Hoffman predicted in a recent interview that Raymond Babbitt and Ratso Rizzo are the two roles he will be remembered for.) Aside from the acting, however, \Rainman's\ greatest strength is its plot. The original script went through countless revisions and a large assortment of writers and directors (including Steven Spielberg, who had to give up the project to film the final Indiana Jones movie) before filming began. Yet the final result is remarkably cohesive, and, most importantly, it consistently resists the temptation to provide easy answers and unrealistically tidy conclusions. The film's ability to avoid sentimentality while remaining effective is a difficult balance which Levinson handles characteristically well. And although \Rainman\ is not without some shoddy moments (such as the one where Hoffman and Cruise's girlfriend dance in a Las Vegas elevator), it is an interesting and well- done movie, and definitely worth taking a look at. B+/A- Pre-Super Bowl Symphonyl! By MEG PARSONS This Sunday afternoon in a pre-Super Bowl dose of culture. the Union College Chamber Orchestra performed its Winter Concert under the direction of Professor Hilary Tann. The orchestra, with· Ed Lin '89 as concertmaster, played three works for a receptive audience in the Memorial Chapel. The first of these works was The Caliph of Bagdad composed by B.A. Boieldieu (1775-1834). This unfamiliar piece was interesting; almost whimsical in its range of style from its sweet melody to its suddenly aggressive sections: a very exciting piece of music with surprising bursts of energy. The trumpet section proved an especially strong part of the group with a nice clear sound throughout. The next piece was the Concerto in D Major by FJ. Haydn with piano soloist Cathy Lee '91. This well known piece was nicely performed overall. Miss Lee played impressively if not a bit mechanically due to the technical difficulty of the work. The piano solo worked quite well with the orchestra, one reflecting the motif of the other with deft precision. The third work was the Symphony No. 4 in B Major by L. van Beethoven. Of the four movements, the last, Allegro rna non trappe, was the best. Here, the orchestra captured a truly full 'Beethovenesque' sound. In the other movements there were moments which could have been brought to life perhaps by Professor Tann elevating her own energy level while conducting. In the second movement, Adagio, the airy melody was sometimes lost by the winds bringing down the light sound rather than supporting it. The third movement, Allegro vivace, restored the lost energy of the previous movement and successfully led into the fourth. Overall the concert was an entertaining success and a nice way to dispel the Sunday afternoon on-campus doldrums. ******************************************* The.: WRUC New 8.97 Who will enjoy a longer honeymoon, the kinder, gentler President. or the jangly Athenians? Tune in to this very space next week to find out how R.E.M. fares. You won't find George H.W. Bush's favorability ratings accurate to two decimal digits. No. Artist Album Label 1 . R.E.M. Green Warner 2. The Replacements (12\) I'll Be You Si-re 3. Violent Femmes* 3 Slash 4. V e I vet Elvis Velvet Elvis Enigma 5. Lou Reed* New York Sire 6. The Feelies(12\)* Higher Ground A&M 7. The Saints Prodigal Son TVT 8. Marc Almond* The Stars We Are Capitol 8.97 The Pogues (12 11 )* Yeah, Yeah, Yeah Island *First Week on the 8.97 Eyebrow raising sane of the Week: The Vandals - \Clowns Are Experts\ PROGRAMMING NOTES: Upcoming hockey broadcasts on 89.7 FM, pre-game shows start at 7:00 p.m.: Tonight at North Adams; Saturday against Merrimack; Tuesday against Williams. This Sunday the topic of \The Bottom Line\ will be Bulemia. Bob Mason and Bill Sheehan are the embodiment of what radio needs to be saved from. By the way, all radio stations are electric. Compiled by Ron Eugenio and John S. Morgan *****************************·************** HOROSCOPE by '1(' Capricorn Avoid late night gossip sessions. Loose lips sink ships and if you're not careful you'll destroy the whole fleet. Aqumius Sometimes simple things are the best. But not this week. Think Paris, Ferraris and diamonds. Invest in a couple lottery tickets. Pisces Bodily noises are funny, sometimes. Be careful or that belch might turn off a perspective squeeze. Aries Lighten up! Everyone has a lot of work, mid- terms. You're not alone! A Plus shouldn't be a substitue for a human friend. Taurus Have you ever been in the Nott?You don't know what you're missing ... possibly the line you need to pick up that fox at the next party ... 'You ever been in the Nott?\ GemiRi Tonight the new social policy won't cramp your social life! Be crazy, you can even get away with wearing that obnoxious sweater you got over break. Cancer Remember your roommate! Suprise gifts. unsolicited compliments will make your week alot more pleasant. Leo Check your mailbox every day. Carefully. Important news is corning. Maybe. Virgo You don't need snow for your wild winter activities. Cool Whip will be a fine substitute. Libra · Relationships are a lot like computers. Remeber to Save. Think Saturday! Scorpio Finally world recognition and acclaim will be yours. They should have been your years ago. We all I thank you for your patience. Sagittarius ' Study. Study. Study. And you used to swear by your Horoscopes. Rain Man MOHAWK CINEMAS 4:45 Accidental Tau rist 4:55 Mississippi Burning 4:40 Twins 5:00 Oliver & Co. 5:50 Dirty Rotten Scoundrels Naked Gun 5:55 Talk Radio 5:00 7:20 7:25 7:00 7:35 7:50 8:00 7:10 9:45 ~ 9:50 ~ 9:30 ~ 10:00. 9:55 9:50 ~ 9:35 WINTER FEST IS COMING!

,...._ Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS Janu·ary 2~, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS M e.rton Tapes - Friday, January 27 at noon, all are welcome to bring a brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton Tape in CC404B. Welcome Bishop Hu;bbard - Sunday, January 2? Bishop Howard has accepted the invitation of the Newman <;lub t:o be the celebrant and to preach at the 7:30 p.m. Mass. Immediately following there will be a reception in St.. John's Rectory for the Union Commun·ity. The Bishop welcomes this opportunity ro be with you and to listen to your concerns. Monday Night Suppers ... January 30 at 5 p.m. in CC203 either usc your meal plan or bring your own supper and join Father Ed Kacergius for conversation and an informal presentation about Vatican II \It happened 25 Y cars Ago and You Weren't There - What Docs It Mean to You.\ All welcome. Catholic Adult Video Education Series Tuesdays from 4:30 - 5 p.m. in Room 204 or the College · Center Sr. Joan will provide an opportunity for s-liudents to update and discuss faith issues as together we view this adult video series. With the Apostle's Creed as a guide, this innovative series presents today's major faith issues and concerns in the light of Vatican II. Tuesday, January 31, \The Divine Personality\ Part I. All welcome. Confirmation - This spring, Bishop Hubbard will administer the Sacrament of Confirmation in St. John the Evangelist Churcn. Union students arc invited , to participate. Any Union student who has not ·been confirmed may contact Sr. Joan 404B College Center who will arrange meetings to assist student.<> in their preparation. Tutoring - Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 3R6\4353. . ATTENTION STUDENTS The Colle~e Boqkstore will begin returningWinter Term Textbooks on Friday, February 19th. · Please purchase your Winter Term Textbooks, before that date. Thank you. / The College Bookstore College Center Phone: 370-6188 Hours: Monday - Friday 8:45am- 4:30pm Saturday 11:00 am-3:00pm Falk Group • All singers and . musicians interested in being part of the Masic Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass ·. please meet at 6:30p.m. in the church to rehearse. ' . Visiting Shut· ins - Any • Union student wh:o wishes to . ·visit a shut-in on a regular .. basis duri:qg these 'dreary winter . months please contact Gerri · Borne 372·3381. Over-night Retreat Friday, February 17•th at 5 p.m. to Saturday, February 18th at 5 p.m. at 1630 Nott Street plan. now to make a • retreat for lent. Theme: Spiritual Growth and Self- Concept. To help us become aware that a positive self itnage is· the basis of loving . acceptance of others and a necessary condi.ti<m for becoming open to one's self, to , others and to God. A donation of $5 when you register with SR. Joan. - Morning Prayer CO!ltinues in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center weekdays from 8:15-8:35. - There is Sunday worship in the same place from 6:00-6:45 PM. . - Bible study has started up again on Thursdays from 11:30-12:45 in CC 204. Please bring a tray in from UIJpcrclass dining room or bring a bag lunch. We are currently studying the idea.oftlle Jubilee Year (Leviticus). All are welcome. Cathy & Robin, CLASSIFIEDS My family is perfect. · Lina Don't worry Jaime. My staff and I are still working. · , Chiquita . Part Time Emplopment KathNYHUS! Attn: Judy & Jane Sikinius & Ti(fany (what's your last name?) . Service Station attenda·nt : Your millions of adoring fans kiss your beautiful toes! We love you and you are the most poplular chick around! I Phone 374-9828 I · Wan ted T11 tor for Only 2 .months to go. Do you have your stories straight? · · Conversational Finnish for tri!) • to Finland. Call 887-2962 . ·.STUDENTS OFF CAMPUS JOB Babysitting for 2 year old - patt ·. time days, flexihie hours, Location - Niskayuna. Please contact 377-5527. Jack Cat- Love and Kisses. Mug~y , · Love Your Fans . Love, The Pilot House SIGMA DELTA TAU P Z L U Z E G A. R .·M TtJesday, January 3,1::s~ $1. 50· per puzzle -~. j . FREE DAYTONA .BEACH SPRING BREAK POSTERS AVAILABLE! ... DAYTONA BEACH -- DESTINATION DAYTONA! the C0nvention and Visitor~ Bureau for the World's. -Most Famous Beach, is offering FREE Spring Break •sg posters for colleg;e students. · DESTINATION DAYTONA! has information · on accommodations and events during the Spring Break . weeks in March and April. For a free poster and .Qffical Spring Break Guide, call l-800-854-1234 or write P.O. Box 2775, Daytona Beach, FL 32015. oeV!()()OlY YO(! llfiV~N'T lliA!?O. .J/T 7Hio VEKY !110Mef/r, He 15 t7el!V& 5\7rJt£N OfF 10 fl ot/K61C!IL (J/IJ IN tV6W YCY?K ... FAtT: 170/VAL!J ' ll?UMf I WA7 lilT g Y fl/5' OWN I flNCfiOf< /..A~r WEEK. FACT: f/(.5 JJOP'f YROK~N 131/T !f/5 . f3f(fJffll IN7fiC. T, MK. 71(f/ti1P l/G~ fN fl $8CKeT !I&W YORK a//K&fC;qL t-A/3, WHICH t.~fl'ie.:7 ()5 W!THfl M051 FR!IJHretiiNG f!?rJ5f6'C1··· •

• CONCORD!ENSJS JanuQry 26, 1989 Page.l7 can't I take my hat off yet? PERSONALS Your A.E.R.~.SMC to be do-in the Nasy: We hope you get y0ur $168 worth, having fun with MS.. 1-800. To .D,.Q. Moms ThdnkS for the bowling Lou-Whol · Alone again .at last! I know • . • how weire not going to Ungratefully Crusty Leslie:i Leslie! Leslie! . ; celebrate! Guess What? It's a Personal! HAPPY; HAPPY Love, The Pledges ¥our Roomie · :cAB You really know how to ti:eat a gal! J'il just lay )lere at yoUF . ~~eti:!Fhite, Okay? But, c'mon, . Betty Kroc~er: . · So you bad to fly to Lancaster BIRTHDAY! Much Love, Elaine \• Jul'ies- l.HE·.NEW ROCK ....... Don't choke on any peas l . fl p :ease .. Julie, I know the greatest iittle 1 • j houl' photo place... 3 hours later ... different state? &ROLL DUTCH HOLlOW · Your travel ,companion BOY WANTED: Looking for a1tractive male for my friend Jaime. The male should be a bit zany and not toQ religious, please. Chiquita. Brand, H-OURS~ 5-11' EVERYDAY I . Happy, Happy Birthday!! ' . Y our're the bestest! ·come visit.us at the·.College Center or Call for free, Love·Lina Mel, Beautiful Eurocentro I.D., photo 1 traveler check ·hell (hey, I .gave him. $10), P<n:t ~tax, don't . ask. ·Rockey game? Where? Who? Just don't bother after I use my neuroazi- meraterater. > • • ~-- deli :very . . . · 370-6060 $5Roo minlm·um or -~ small· p:izza Love, Bask Justsend us a photo of your most outrageous dare from the fun, new DARE game. Your dare may win y.ou. ... One of three 1.989 Spring BreakVacations for £our worth ss,ooo! OFFICIAL RULES 1. NO PURCHASE NECESSAR'I' TO EllltR DR CLAIM· Publrcily Release)w'lh•nS Oays oi nml!cat,an ar ;i111e awaros w11i be vo•O No .PRIZE. To enter. ma1l acl .. x5 or 4 x6 b&w·or COlOr (no slides). photo deOICHng a subs!llulion or l!ansler oi·C'lles One pn1e oer ranuly 4. Contest ooen oo:y to dare lcomtheDARE game logether With your pr•nlecJ~am~laddress on a 3' x5 · C<ltd· US resrdeqts 18 o< older at.ttme ote~lry exceoJ.emoro~es Ia notre\ tam ·•esr to DAilE Sprlng·llrak CDnltiSI. P •. O.Ioi'S565, WIISIJ!ort, CT 06888. ol RackerBcothers. 1[\.alhtoates suOsldlanes agenctes and·pcp!ess,onar ~hO· Photo must ~e the pr.,grnil \ock:ot entrant and nor.have been puo11sheo oc·puOI!cly tographecs Vo1d. \~ere pcch,Med raxes· ace tl1e sote respons'b'hty ot the dtsplayed One enlfy pee envelope A!! entnes musr be recerved Dy 3l1/89 2. .w1nnecs t<lotrespons,ote·tor •ilellg,ttte damaged tosl late mlsdtrected.ma•' m Entries Yl1fl·be rudged team among all eilgrote en111es recerved on oi about.3/1189 returned ome no!lftcaii1Jns Enu'e~·oecome propeny ol soonso• W'tn a'l ~.gnts by PMC. an mdependeot rudgmg agency. ort IMbastsol orrgcnality·fO,JO oo,ntS} tncludrng me nghl t~ edtl oubhsirar.d ~se any pholo w'tMutlunner cons•oera· cetevance !o the DARE game (0,40 pmnls). composrtioo (0·20 potnts) .• photo· !ton or payment to l~econtestaot No conesoondence tete phone e<~lls oc othec gcaphrc tecflmque 10·10 pomtsl 3. Three P.lizes Wtll·be awarded Eachwtil n~ a. , mqutnes about erttr<es w1t! be entered 1nlo nor w1ll photos be acknowledged oc Spnng Bceak tnp roc 4 cons,suog of.a1 r ira~elm conrmeotal USA I rom maroc a11port ceturr.ed By submltt,ng an entry you acceot and'agcee lo tJe bound by these rutes closest. fa wtnners restaences holet !or 5 ntgh!s and celaled expenses up to a and all dec1S10ns ~f,lhe.rudges wh1t:hace !mat 5. Tooolam .. ,nnecs I 1st send max1mum·relatl value ol $5 000 W~nne1s must s1gn ano.ceturn an AM1dav11 ol a sell-addressed stamoea enverope by 3/1/89 to DARE W.mners P 0 Box EIIQiblhtpnd L'abdrty/Pubhcl!yAelease (andwlnnecs lravetcomoanJons a Travel/ 2925. Saugatuck Staller Westoon CT 00180 · ------------------------------ Qt$3.00 REBATE $1 .50, R·EBATEI!a WHEN YOU BUY A OL~7 CAMERA WHEN YOU BUY 3 ROLLS OF FUJI FILM BUYaFuiiDL·TcamerabetweenJan 1.19119and Dec 3.1' 1989 Request must be received by Jan 30, 1990. RECEIVE a $3.00 rebate rn thematl. SENi:l 1) THIS completed rebate· cer1rficate AND 2) your dated cash register recetpt with the pm:e pard ctrcled PLUS 3) the UPC code tram package. MAIUO: Fuji.Dl·7 Rebate Offer P.O. Box 117 Voung.Ameri~a. MN 55399 Name---------------'\---- Address _ F Apt ... :.._ -------·-- BUY 3 packages ()ffuricolor Film. 24 or 36exposuces between Jan 1 1989and Dec. 31, Hl89 . .ReQLJesl m.ust be recerv€d by Jan. 31.1990: RECEIVE a $1.50 rebate rMhe marl. Maxrrrium rebate is three {3) rebates per family, address. orgamzat1on oclocati~n 'SEND 1') THIS completed cebatt! certificate ANI) 2) your dated cash reg1ster receipt with the price pa1d Circled PLUS 3) the UPG panels from each of the 3 pa9~ages of Futi Film. 24 or 36 exposures with the words \Manufactured· f(lr. the U.S.A\ Your rebate is based on prools·of- purchases seot at one time. MAIL Hi: fujlfilm $1.50 llDbatll OHer P.O. Box 5676 Kalamazoo. Ml49003-567fi Name----·~-~ ·-.-· ____ ._., ___ . Addcess • ---·- .. ------ Apr __ Stat . Zrp_. City--· --·- ~------ PLEASE NOTE THE.SE ~DDITIONAI. TERMS FDR BOT~ OFFERS:t) OHer . goodonlyinlheU·SA 2)Rebalegooilonlyon·tormatsmdtcatedherern 3)PcoofS· Stale-·-·-. ---· ---· _Zrp .. --~ of,p,urchase _may not bemecflanrcaltyreprodUCed and·must.accompanJ your telluest 41 OHer vord whetetaoed. prohlblted.oc otherwise testnaled 5} Employees at Pup PholoJtlm 0 & k .. Inc.,. drstnbutors: whGfesaters aM tetarlecs ol Furt Film and Cameras are rtot el•gtble lot lh1s oftet 6) Filmo~er goad only on Fu 1 1tolor 24 or 36exposurelitm for amateucuse Commerctal users ace noteligtble 7) Fuj1rs not responsrllle tor rosl ·tate at msdllecledmarl 6) Please allow uoto60days 1ccdel1very CAMPUS _NEWS To our 2 New Slutaroos!! Couldn't be prouder!! Keej) up the good wot;k, we'rejealous!! L&K To Mother S~perior, Twenty questions was fun. Thanks for the gift! Love.,LM Lindsay, There is nothing to tell you that you don't already know!! Also- - thanks for letting me borrow Christine! Love, N .... andd .... Slf:liley, Thanks for the great Birthday present. #s 1-8. thank you. #6 especially, Thank you. ZIM, Thanks for being there last Friday! You are a doll! f!ey. let's get psyched for Sat!JI'dayl (But no red bow~tie!),. SMC Happy Birthday to one oj' in y most attractive friends. (You know who you are). LoveL. Veroonique: Feliz Cumpleanos. P.S. Oh Boy!: I'm sorry. Oh Baby! Arthur, Happy Birthday to one of my best friends (and toys)! I love you lots. ., Elaine P.S. Can't Vit:ait till next yeru! ' ; ~ BURLAP, HAPPY 20th B-DAY!! By the way, you're really out of control! But you're still an awesome roommate!! Nice Hicky Neil!!! To Italy Term Abroad 1988 \Bla-Bla-Bla-Dopo\ Love Ya Guys KATHNYHUS! KATHNYHUS! KATHNYHUS! You are so populart Mkhele Litvack, Well~ if you go, then I'll take him and if you don't go, then :. 1:11 tak~ hiin. Beth,. While you're at iL.the crates need cleaning, the windows need washing and the dog needs a bath... · Sister Dave, You missed the house meeting and I miss you: The little one. A nos amis francais· Cuckoe!! II y a un fete pour\vous le 33 feuver chez. Midge et le \nacho freak\. Venez avec boissons! l Joy- Happy 21st Birthday! ... and how many rolls of fi:lm have you shot?!?! Love ya- Your bath buddies (Kelley, Leslie, Amy) Weekend Brunch is now at Killer & Mole's Diner .. coffee and fresh bagels to be served. Bring meal cards. To my new Suite-mates: Any more spilled coffee and we'll have the cat lick it up. Thanks for the cooking lesson, Moles. Dirt Gladys, Requests for bed-time stories? How about War & Peace- read it while I hang out with my toothbrush. Stanley Waldman! Thanks for Saturday night - it was great! We should have ''sleep-overs\ more often, okay? Chuckles, I miss you! Joy- An Admirer. Love, Cheesie Happy 21st Birthday! ... and how many rolls of film have you shot? Love, Bath B uddics (Kelley, Leslie, Amy) Dutch Hollow Treat Is it Spring? EnJoy your favorite flavor cone only 50¢ Daily Dutch Hollow Restaurant.

' ' ---- ' ' . Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS January 26, 1989 ~ -·-·: Qlnncnr~ieusis SPORTS- lynne Erdman in the I~ ad against Williams. = Women's Track Triumphs Over Hamilton Hamilton by one point, and came within reach .of Williams. The womttn had a great day as they finished with four places, six seconds, four thirds and four fourths. this was the best showing the women have had an year! · The women started off the day by sweeping first, second and third places in the 20 lb. weight throw. Alix Goldschmidt led the t:roops with a hurl .of 10~68tn, followed closely by Stephanie Woodard and Val Smwin. And, immediately following that, the three came back to grab first, second and fourth in the shot put with Stephanie throwing 10.8lm to finish first and Al:i4 and Val following. burned up the track as she ran a 5:28 mile, finishing second. Lynne Erdman also ran· a smoker as she quaiified for the State meet in the lOOOm with a time of 3.: 16.25. She barely missed qualifying for ECACs by .25 seconds! C_ahdy Mills, in her first competition of the year, jumped to a fourth place in the high jump and a first in the long jump. with a leap of 4.85m. Uz · Dobbs had a productive uay as she burclled her way to two fowth place finishes in the .50m hurdles and the 400m dash. Meg Parsons .. and Kathy Lawliss contributed strong efforts as they finished second and third respectively, in the 800m run. By SHORTCAKE They did it, ladies and gentlemen, they did it!! In a tri- meet against Hamilton and Williams, the women•s track team triumphed over the rnor~ experienced Hamilton te:am!! · With unbelievable efforts nade by all of the women, they pulled together to beat an . unsuspecting and surprised . The weight women looked impressive as they started Union on a great foot. With .. au the· individual efforts put forth during the.day, the outcome of the ·meet still · was up for gFabs and w:as to be· determined by the final ·two events of the day, the mile relay and the two mile relay. In the mile relay. the tearn of Dobbs,. Lawliss, Cargile, and Denise McMU1ian, with . only one member over the height of 5' sn' ran against the much taller apd rrioce experiel).ced · teams from Willia~s and Hamilton. With an· exciting, finish, Union.pulled ahead to take second· place. HQW.ever, this meant that , Union would have to be!:!t both opposi:qg teams in the twp mjle r€1ay in order to beat Hamillon overall. And, thafs just what they did. Th~· ··team . of< AQselrnent, · :Parsons, Erdman· ,aqd Rika Poor ran ail incredible race to finish first with .a time of 10:44 and clinch the. win over Hamilton for the women. •. . It was an exciting day for the w.omen and· they were glad to .see the many. supporters Y1at came out to cheer for them. Thank youJor your support; In the running and jumping events, Union had many standouts. Sandy Anselment · .. Men's Track Finishes Strong And Takes Third Place lly STAFF Last weekend, lhe men's track team hosted a tri-meet against Hamilton and Williams. Both of the opposing teams have established themselves in the past as being very strong. However, Union proved they could handle anything these teams could dish out as they stayed within reach throughout the meet until, as the meet concluded, the men found themselves in a competitive third. The men had many .outstanding performances as they put in three firsts, four· seconds, three thirds, three fourths and four fifths overall. To start off the day, the weight men fought their way to a great start as Jim Sweet and Shawn Mowry threw their way to a fourth and fifth spot, respectively, in the 35 lb. weight throw. Then, directly after that, Jim took seco11d in the shot put with Cliff Gen_ge and Shawn close behind ~ng foutth and fifth. Chip Silver had a busy day as he p1Clced high in each of his event~. In the long jump and the high jump, he took third, in the 500m dash, he took fi£th, while in the 50m hurdles~ he raced his way to a second ]Jiace honor. -Jeff Simkins was the only one·who could beat Ch.ip ~ in that hurdle race, as Jeff :§ _J finished first with a time of 7.5 ~ seconds and then stepped back: ~ \\ on the track to rip a seco11d in 5 the 300m run, followed cl()sely fcj behind by Tom Frisbie who o finished third. He also took 5 5: second in the high jump. Steve Hayes had an impressive showjng in the 400rn dash as he sprinted his way to first place in 53.8 seconds. Rich Zem bek ran a very strong 500m race as he crossed the line in fourth place. In the .50m dash, Dave Sheppard tool: off Mouthing Off ... Continued from page 19 AFC Championship Game between the San Diego Chargers and the Miami Dolphins. Miami won the game in overtime, O'!\ercoming a 21-0 second quarter deficit The Oakland Raiders defeated Cleveland in 1980 when Cleveland's quarterback Brian Sipe, the NFVs MVP that season, threw an interception in the Raider end zone in the closing minutes. These were all Games! I can remember all of this vividly, but I have great trouble remembering who played in each Super Bowl, because t>ne thing they have not bee11 is SUPER. I want a SUPER BOWL. U we don•t get a full 60 minuts of SUPER football soon, I will be disappointed. lf we don\ then something is wn>11g · with the system and the game itself. The system neecls a revamping, so please, Pe.te, change it and give us a real game. For $75 a ticket, (foJl't you think the fans deserve it? SUPPORT UNION SPORTS Jeff Simkins clears the high jump bar. like a spm:k to finish fifth and that they were destined for a then come back to take third in third place overall. Most teams the triple jump. . . In this situation would give up At.the con~lu~IOn:ofthe d.ay, in the last race and say •forget despr!e Umon s 1mpressrve if, but not this team! They showmg, the men were far bounced back to slaughter the enough behind Hamilton so ·competition in the mile relay wfu~re the te:,tm of Frisbie, Hayes, Zembek and· Simkins ran a 3:39.4 to-win solidly and prove to Williams and Hamilton that, although they beat them this time, don•t discount them cause they'll be back! KARATE CLUB SCHEDULE Tues. 6-8 Thurs. 4:30 - 6 Fri. 7:30 - 9· Classes are held in the exercise ro·om. ALL ARE WELCOME I

uarv 26. 1989 Pag.e 19 ' . . Athlete of the Week By MARK ZIMMERMAN agggressive player who brings Sports Editor a lot of energy with him onto the crowd endlessly on the way to a two-goal performance including a beautiful breakaway goal. This week's \Athlete of the Week\ is sophomore· hockey :player Terry Campbell. Over the course of· the past five games. Terry has had 8 goals and 4 assists. Not surprisingly. dur~ uiat span of time: the Dutcllmen have a five ... game winning streak and have boosted their record to U -3. After just 14 games, C~pbell has to goals and 15 assists for a total of 25 pQints· whicli is tops for the team. With· 10 games remaining on the regular season schedule, Terry could pass his last season's. point total of .33 which. tied him for the team lead .. Terry is a very quick and Terry Campbell · the ice. In the game against No~th Adams, he terrorized the defense CD'nsistently and thrilled · Satistically, enough can't be said about Terry: He has won 63.8% of his faceoffs (second on the team}, has 57.4% scoring percentage, leads the team in assists, is tied for the team lead in goals, has been penalized only twice tor a total of four minutes, and has the highest plus/minus ratio on the teant. ft should also be noted that against Hamilton. Terry scored the 58th point of his career putting him 24th on the aU-time scoring list after only 40 games. Congratulations go out to Terry Campbell on being named this week's \Athleteofthe Week.\ U .··.' • ·s •· • A .·· · ... BIOI . •.·. Wlntmtng: · .. · Stroke Above The Rest By ·:MARK :ziMMERMAN Sports Editor Under second year bead coach Susan Bassett; the men's and women's ~.wiPLJ.~ams are on · their way to improv-ing on last year's records. Last year the women finished the season at 8-1,. behind · an abundance of freshmen and sophomores, The team set 21 school records i:n the process. Meanwhile, the men finished last season with a 4~ 7 record. Already this ye~, both teams are on th~ir way to successful seasons. The women currently nave a 5-l record while the men have a 3-2 record. , Once again, underclassmen play\ a major role for both teams. Tile women's. team has been swimming exceptiona.Uy well this season. With each meet another school record has fallen. . Freshman Anne Gli~ksman has been outstanding and has already set four school records. In the next few weeks, Anne could qualify for the Nationals which are being held at Notre Dame this year. Kerstin Dorse, also a freshman; holds two school records of her own. The relay team of Halsdorf, O'Neil, Cutrone and Kavaney holds the school record in the 400 freestyle. Individual performances by Jen Jayce, Mary Kelly, and Jeanne Cutrone have also helped the successfuL Vete:rans Wendy. year,\ says the coach. Many of Sternberg, Cindy Curtis, Jen the swimmers have made Nolan, Jamie Lipsher, Kate changes. in order to fill a needed Kaveney and second year spot. Junior Lee Fraiji swimmer Pam Fiedler have (captain)changed events several also been extremely: .ln'liJortaat- . -mtiines-when;-the need arose. One to the team this season. Prior· thing the men's team is for to last .season, the women's sure is versatile. team had never won more than While the team is still three meets in' one year; Last small, it is improving with year, they had eight.andalready each meet. Since the this season, th~y have won completion of the gym two five. - years ago, the roster has Themen'st~misalso,fill~d grown. but it is ·still not with underclassmen. The team as full· as· could be. has seven freshmen and six Nonetheless, ihe teams have sophomores on the team of 15. come a long way in a short Again Coach Bessett had words time, and this season will be of praise. \This is a much another step towards putting This season will be another step towards putting Union <Jmong elite in college swimming circles. Union among th~ elite in college swimming circles. Over the winter break, the team traveled to Puerto Rico for winter training. \This is the developing into a very close . knit team because .of the tremendeus amount of competition that goes on day in and day out,\ said Bassett. . \They have fun, but they work very hard. The overall' attitude is tremendous and everyone is pulling toward the same goals. We've already accomplished more than at this time last year,\ she went on to. say. ·sPORTS ACCORDING. TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ SPORTS There ate two ways to enough time to comfortably approach foul Sh()tting, either take the free throw doesn't with confidence or fear. Too mean that they should be taken many basketball players have for granted. While this should · the latter attitude. Of all make fo\11 shooting easy, it can aspects of the game, this is · only add to a player's probably the hardest, requiring nervousness. Behind glass the most discipline. Ironically, backboards, players are often the free throw li11e is also confronted by a sea of waving known as the \charity stripe.\ arms. This also compounds Tt should be a \gimme\ ~ut it free throw anxiety. So does one isn't. of the most prevalent coaching There is a simple, basic strategies, intentional fouling technique to properly shoot at the end of games. foul shots; you keep your feet Syracuse University is square about shoulder width synonymous with poor foul apart, knees bent a little, head shooting in the worl'd of up, back straignt, .eyes on the college basketball. It cost them front of the r\m, shooting hand the national championship to slightly under the ball, and the Indiana University two years other hand merely serves as a ago. To no avail, their coach guide to keep the ball going in brings in foul . shooting a straight line. In one smooth specialists, and· they continue motion, you bend yqur knees to sing the iron cho.rus and rise on the halls of your whenever they ppproach the feet while simultaneously foul line. extending your arms, and then Foul shooting is not follewing ·through by flexing something that the old adage, your wrists. Seems simple \Practice makes p€rfect,\ eno-ugh, right? necessarily applies to. Effective foul shooting is directlyrelated to concentration. All one has to do is watch Danny Ainge 6r Chris Mullin to see how easy foul shooting can be. Wrong, it only seems easy; just because a player stands before the line, no one defends the shot, and there is Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER This past Sunday produced a · Super Finish!!! Budweiser came from behind to defeat Bud Light 27-24 in 'Bud Bowl I'. The SllSpence felt by all who were privileged enough to witness this event was great. Imagine what next year's game is going to be like?!?: 1 can't even bear the thought. There was also another game . played on Sunday, lhough it was of less consequence than 'Bud Bowl I'. It was Super Bowl XXIII, played in Miami's Joe Robbie Stadium. Cincinnati and San Francisco-- the Bengals and the 49-ers-- a rematch of Super Bowl XVI. And do you know what we got from this game?!? Forty minutes of boredom and about five total minutes of excitement. I seem to have lost to have. It reminds me of Green Bay's Bart Starr diving off his right guard in the closing seconds of the \Ice Bowl\ against the Dallas Cowboys, giving the Packers and Vince Lombardi the NFL Championship. This was football at its finest. Too bad it is all in the past. League Commissioner Pete Rozeil's Parity has not produced equality.It has created dull games,. and Super Bores. The past four Super Bowls were blowouts, with the NFC outscoring the AFC, 165-56. These games were not werthy of deciding the league champion. In each game, the losing team f0rgot to show up; The Conference ·team to success. Coach ::Bassett feels that the team \has made a giant step to being competitive with this year's freshmen.\ However, she is also the first to recognize the efforts of every team member individually as the rea8on the team has been so stronger team than the one that did so well last year .. \ The team is led by sophomore Tom Kim who holds two school records. Coach Bassett hopes that Tom will qualify for the Nationals as h~. is a very strong and consistent sprinter. Freshmen Tony Tremaglio, Andy Wagshul, and Tim Lynch are the swimmers who look to be the key to the. freshmen class. Although there is not a lot of flexibility on the team due to its small size, adjustments are made at each meet to put together a whining combination. 11 Nothing will come e~sy to this team this Bassett, who coached at William Smith for seven years and posted a 79-21 record, feels that this is the most enjoyable group she's ever coached. The teams will travel to Rochester this Saturday and then to Hamilton on February 4. They will be back at home on the 8th. Come out and watch the teams, you're bound to see sorne fierce competition, a few new school recerds and, most lik:ely, a victory. · an entire quarter somewhere along _the line, but where I don't know. Championship Games were better than the Super Bowls. Denver and Cleveland fought each other in two great battles in the 1'986 and '87 seasons, only to have John Elway and his many skills take control and lead Denver to the Big Game. Too bad the Broncos lost the two Super Bowls by scores of 39-20 to the New York Giants and 42-10 to the Washington Redskins, SUPPORT UNION SPORTS Yes, it is true that San Francisco came from behind to win the Super Bowl in the waning moments. Joe Montana to John taylor for the winning touchdown with 34. seconds remaining is the kind of finish that Super Bowls are supposed The game many people consider to be the best in league history was the 1982 Continued on page 18 .... ....-.

Women's . .swimming got an early jump on Hartwick evenW.aHy W'inning 132·111. Guy Logan blocks out a Hamilton .play3r; Un:ion won by a sco:re of 5-2 and upped its record to 11·3. January 26, 1 989 Men's Basketball Improves To 6-5 B.y SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Editor The men's basketball team continued to hover just above the .500 mark last week by losing to Albany at Union but rebounding to beat Binghamton on the road: their record now stands at 6--5. Rival Albany came into last Tuesday's game as a heavy favori tc: they were 8-4 to Union's 5-4, led the overall series 22-9, and Albany coach Doc Sauers had an 8 game win streak going against Bill Scanlon and the Dutchmen. For the first 17 minutes of the first half, it appeared that the game would nonetheless be close. The Dutchmen took an 8-7 lead early on; and responded to a S-0 Albany scoring binge by putting together an 8-2 stretch of their own. With 8:00 minutes left in the half, the score was Albany 21, Union 18. Then came a series of turnovers and mental errors that resulted in a 14-4 scoring run by the Great Danes, including a 10-0 spurt. Resull: Albany led 31-18 at the half. But after a motivational speech by Scanlon, the Dutchmen put it together again early in the second half. With three h.oops by Elgin Rhodes and two each by Doug Gregory and Dave Sussman, Union cut Albany's lead to 38-34 with 11:00 left in the game. Unfortunately, while they kept the pressure on, the Dutchmen were unable to get any closer. Albany held on to win 61-53 despite a strong performance by Elgin Rhodes. Playing in his first full game since spraining an ankle, Rhodes finished with 14 points and 14 rebounds, while Gregory added 13 and 6. Two days later, on the 19th, the Dutchmen hoopsters showed more patience against Binghamton and outplayed a very physical Colonials team. Led by senior forward Pat Kimball, the 3-8 Colonials came out strong in the first half. Union countered with some strong perimeter shooting. Freshman point guard Paul Brindle nailed 3 three-pointers including a tremendous 40 foot heave at the buzzer which gave the Dutchmen the lead at the half, , .. _, _____ ,,, __ . ' .. 47-45. The second half was all Union as the Dutchmen started it off vlith a 16-6 run and tihe Colonials never got closer thaR six the. rest of the way. In the end, the Dutchmen carne away with a 92-74 victoryand turned the ball over fewer times (10) than they had in their ten previous games. Gregcry produced yet Mother strong performance, finishing with 23 :points and,.12 rebounds behind high percentage shooting. He leads the team in field goal percentage (.587) and is shoC>ting .806 from the line. Other strong performances were t11rned inby Brindle and Scott Gibbs. Brindle finished with I 7 points and 10 assists while Gibbs provided a clutch three pointer when the team needed it in the first half, and finished with 9 points. The Dutchmen showed improvement in their patience and intensity in their last two games and hope to continue improving on that. Yesterday they played LeMoyne and this weekend they travel to Long Island to face an undefeated King's Point team. SAJ:U.Ji,QA,¥,\ · 2i. ·· ·\ . · ·· ·· Hookey· VI$,. M&r\f··irrnaekr·;: \'\\'' . ·· ·\··· · ····· · ··· · ··· · \' · ,, ··\·'i'l·i't\' · ··· ,. Men~s .,Ba·sketbain··at;\··Ki'ngsr ·Pl'J·t·nt · .. \ ... ,· · ... : :: ·!:·~!~.: .... s · tmmrnrr· ft \Rocfil:sftri\'''B'~ffnts· ·· ·· · T~ek al''\PflftJBUttfH.\f:Afii~k?o·~·· . •·· .. ·\\'? .. ,, .. ···\ .·.· J.V .. Hock.e¥ .• v.s •.... ~nte.rb;Y,f¥· ,. Skating Dutchmen On A Five Game Winning Streak By ANDREW SEEWALD Last weekend, as they passed the halfway mark on the sc h. edule, the Skating Dutchmen passed the puck extremely well, and passed a further test of their ability to win on the road. Saturday night at Geneseo, Junior Guy Logan posted a hat trick as the Dutchmen buried the Knights, 8-3. One of Logan's three goals came on the power-play, and Union had four power-play goals on the night. On Sunday afaternoon, Junior goaltender Ron Kinghorn stopped 26 Canisius shots and five different Dutchmen tallied as Union came away with a 6-0 victory. Sophomore Terry Campbell continued his dominant play. The center opened the scoring 5:37 into the second period when he was left open in front of the net and converted the rebound of a Bill Sedergren shot from the point. Campbell would finish the game with two goals and two assists, giving him 23 points in 13 games. Union scored four goals in the third period Sunday, including goals by Freshmen Rick Clifford and Paul Sullivan. Su11ivan was inserted into the lineup for his injured classmate, David Moody, who separated a shoulder in Saturday's game. Junior Dan Gould and Campbell also scored in the third period, and Junior Marc Goguen scored in the second for a total of 6 goals on the game. SUPPORT The Dutchmen defensive corps was particularly stingy on Sunday. After the first period, it was a rare occasion when the Griffins would muster a goo6 scoring opportunity. Still, Kinghorn stopped everything that did come his way, as he has with remarkable success in recent games. Since a 6-3 defeat at Achilles Rink on January 4th, ~: . . Kinghorn stopped everything that did come his way, as he has with · remarkable success in recent gamEs. Kinghorn has been superb, enabling the Dutchmen to outscore the opposition over the four game span by 23-6. Moreover, in the four games before that defeat, Kinghorn yieldedjust 7 goals. In Saturday's game, a much more offensively oriented contest, Kinghorn made 40 saves, including stops of several breakaways. In addition to Logan is hat trick, Sedergren, Bill Railton, Campbell, Tim Cregan, and Goguen all acored for the Dutchmen. Freshman center Craig Ferrero assisted on 4 of the Union goals. After a 5-2 victory over Hamilton Tuesday night, during which the first period had to be cut short to clear the icc of oranges, the team's record now stands at 11-3. Tonight the Dutchmen are at North Adams for a 7:30 start. Saturday night at Achilles Rink, Division If powerhouse Merr'imack pays a visit, also a 7:30 start. Both games can be heard on WRUC 89.7 FM. UNION SPORTS \ I I 1 ·I L l: ' II '; .I

eventually Guy Logan blocks out a Fl'arnnton play~t; Union won by a score of 5~2 and upped its record to 1 t-3. January 26, 1989 Men's Basketball Improves· To 6-5 By SCOTT ADAMS Assod~te Sports Editor The men's basketball team continued to hover just above the .500 mark ·last week by losing to Albany at Union but rebounding to beat Binghamton on the road: their record now stands at 6:'5. Rival Albany came into last Tuesday's game as a heavy favorite: they were 8-4 to l::fnion's 5-4, led the overall series 22-9, and Albany coach Doc Sauers had an 8 game win streak going against Bill Scanlon and the Dutchmen. For the first 17 minutes of the first half, it appeared that the game would nonetheless be close. The Dutchmen took an 8-7 lead early on; and responded to a 8-0 Albany scoring binge by putting together an 8-2 stretch of their own. With 8:00 minutes left in the half, the score was Albany 21, Union· 18. Then came a series of turnovers and mental errors that resulted in a 14-4 scoring run by the Great Danes, including a 10-0 spurt. Result: Albany led 31-18 at the half. But after a motivational speech by Scanlon, the Dutchmen put it together again early in. the second half. With three hoops by Elgin Rhodes and two each by Doug Gregory and Dave Sussman, Union cut Albany's lead to 38-34 with 11:00 left in the game. Unfortunately, while they kept the pressure on, the- Dutchmen were unable to get any closer. Albany held on to win 61-53 despite a strong performance by Elgin Rhodes. Playing in his first full game since spraining an ankle, Rhodes finished with 14 points and .14 rebounds, while Gregory added 13 and 6. Two days later, on the 19th, the Dutchmen hoopsters .--showed more patience against Binghamton and outplayed a very physical Colonials team. Led by senior forward Pat Kimball, the 3-8 Colonials came out strong in the first half. Uni-on countered with some strong perimeter shooting. Freshtnan point guard Paul Brindle nailed 3 three-pginters including a tremendous 40 foot heave at the buzzer which gave the Dutchmen the lead at the half, 47-45. The second half was. all Union as the Dutchmen started it off with a 16-6 run and the Colonials never got closer than six the rest of the way. In the end, ihe Dutchmen came away with a 92-74 victory and turned the ball .over fewer times (10) than they had in their ten previoq.s games. Gregory produced yet another strong performance, finishing with 23 points andJ2 rebo!lllds behind high percentage shooting. He leads the team in field goal percentage (.587) and . is shooting .806 from the line. Other .strong performances were turned inby Brindle and Scott Gibbs. Brindle finished with 17 points and 10 assists while Gibbs provided a clutch three pointer when the team needed it in the first half, and finished with 9 points. . The Dutchmen showed improvement in their patience and intensity in their last two games and hope to continue improving on that. YeSterday they played LeMoyne and this weekend they travel to Long Island to face an undefeated King's Point team. .Skatil\lg Dutcbme~n On A Five. Game Wirinin·g Streak By ANDREW SEEWALD . • I Last weekend, as they passed the halfway mark on the schedule,· the Skating Dutchmen passed: the puck extremely well, and passed a further test of their ability to win on the road. Saturday night at Geneseo, Juni<>rGuy Logan posted a hat trick as the Dutchmen butied the Knights, 8~3. -One of Logan's three goals came on the power .. play, and Union had four power~play goals on the night. . · On Sunday afaterno()n, Junior goaltender Ron Kinghorn stopped 26 Canisius ·shots and five ·different Dutchmen tallied as Union came away with a 6-0 victory. Sophomore Terry Campbell continued his dominant play. The center opened the scoting 5:37 into the second period when he was left open in front of the net and converted the rebound of a Bill Sedergren shot frotn the point. Campbell would Jinish the game with two goals and two assists, giving h'im 23 points in 13 games_ Union scored four goals in the third period Sunday, including goals by Freshmen Rick Clifford and Paul Sulliva11. Sullivan was inserted into the lineup for his inj~ed classmate, David Moody, who separated a shoulder in Saturday's game. Junior Dan Gould and Campbell also scored in the third period, and Junior Marc Goguen scored in the second for a total of 6 goals on the game. SU·PPORT The Dutchmen defensive corps was particularly stingy. on Sunday. After the first period, it was a rare occasion when the Griffins would mus:ter a gooci scorin.g opportunity. StHl, Kinghorn stopped .everything that ,did come his way, as he has with · remarkable success in recent games. Since a 6-3 defeat .at Achilles Rink on January 4th, ~ •• KinghQrn stopped everything that did come his way, as he. has . with · :remarkable success in recent games. I<:irighorn has been superb, enabling the Dutchmen to outscore the opposition over the four game span by 23-6. Moreover, in the four games before that defe!lt, Kinghorn yielded just 7 goals. In Saturday's game, a much more offensively oriented contest, Kinghorn made 40 saves, including stops of several breakaways. In addition to Logan's hat trick, Sedergren, Bill Railton, Campbell. Tim .Cregan, and Goguen all acored for the Dutchmen. Freshman center Craig Ferrero assisted on 4 of the Union goals. After a 5-2 victory over Hainilton Tuesday night, during which the first period had to be cut short to clear the ice of oranges, the team's record now stands at 11·3. Tonight the Dutchmen are at North Adams for a 7:30 start. Saturday night at Achilles Rink, I)ivision II powerhouse Merrimack pays a visit, also a 7:30 start. Both games can be heard on \\'RUC 89.7 FM. UNION SPORTS

